THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 12, 1934

BAILEY TO HEAD CLASSICAL GROUP

North Carolina State Classical Association Elects Professor Chairman

Professor J. C. Bailey, of the Davidson department of Greek, was elected chairman of the North Carolina State Classical Association, at a meeting of that body held at the O. Henry Hotel in Greensboro, Saturday, December 1. Professor Bailey is to head the organization until it can effect a union with the State Educational Association, which it is hoped can be arranged sometime within the coming year.

This association was formed a year ago under the auspices of Dr. L. F. Hackeman, of Elon College, to stress the importance of the classics in a liberal education and to strive for better opportunities to study Latin in the public schools. As Dr. Hackeman pointed out, there are many high schools in the state which do not even offer elementary Latin courses as a part of their curriculum. Also, there has been a growing tendency to discredit the value of such courses where offered.

At the recent meeting, the body heard reports from the various committees which had been functioning during the year and decided to continue the program already begun. It was also decided that the group could work most effectively as a part of the State Educational Association, and plans were made to unite with that body. Miss Deneen, of the Woman's College of the University of North Carolina, in Greensboro, was chosen secretary of the Association, which has members in almost all of the leading secondary schools and colleges in the state.

Inspector Makes Visit To R.O.T.C. Department

A contact inspection of the R.O.T.C. department was made Wednesday, Dec. fifth, by Captain Thomas A. Austin. Captain Austin made the inspection instead of Col. Reed, Corps Area Commander in charge of R.O.T.C., who has been ordered to Walter Reed Hospital in Washington for observation. The principal mission of this inspection was to ascertain whether everything was conducted satisfactorily in the Military Department.

Captain Austin, as is customary, paid a visit to President Lingle during the morning to find whether he had any remarks to make about the R.O.T.C. department. At drill period, the battalion gave a parade for the inspector. Captain Austin expressed himself as highly pleased with the appearance of the unit and the care of the property; the band especially drew his favorable comment.

Captain Austin is an expert in Spanish and served on General Pershing’s Tacna-Arica Plebiscitary Commission in Bolivia in 1926. In 1928 he served on Major General Frank R. McCoy's commission, whose duty it was to conduct a fair election in Nicaragua. For his work on this commission, he received the commendation of Army, Marine Corps, and Nicaraguan authorities.

Since his graduation in 1930 from the advanced course of the Infantry School at Fort Benning, Ga., he has been Professor of Military Science and Tactics in the public high schools of Atlanta, Ga. In 1933-34, however, he attended and graduated from the Air Corps Tactical School at Maxwell Field, Alabama.

Fort Leads Mates To Three Easy Wins

(Continued from Page 4)

Shirey, fall after 2:45 minutes; 175 pounds, Fort (Dav) over Hatcher, fall after 4:25 minutes; unlimited, Newby (Dr) over Hodgin.

Statistics for the High Point-Davidson tilt: 118 pounds, Parks (HP) over Moffett, 7:45 minutes time advantage; 126 pounds, Dillon (D) over Gallimore, 9:30 minutes time advantage; 135 pounds, Nolen (HP) over Thompson, 9:12 minutes time advantage; 145 pounds, Owen (D) over O’Lea, fall after 3:15 minutes; 155 pounds, McLaurin (HP) over Shirey, 6:32 minutes time advantage; 165 pounds, Quarterman (D) over Symmey, fall after 9:09 minutes; 175 pounds, Hodgin (D) over Lea, 2:57 minutes time advantage; unlimited, Fort (D) over Scott, fall after 5:48 minutes.

M. H. GOODRUM
Dry Goods, Groceries
Hardware
Radio and Radio Tubes
PHILCO AND GRUNOW

Cercle Francais Holds Meeting Tuesday Night

Le Cercle Francais held its weekly meeting last night. This meeting held a double interest for the members of the club in that a play was given by some of the members and plans were made to visit girls’ colleges throughout the state in the near future. The work of Miss Jennie Thompson and Miss Dot Johnson made this play one of the outstanding events in the entertainment of the French Club.

The play was presented in French with the feminine leads being played by Misses Thompson and Johnson. It was such a great success with the members that undoubtedly another play of the same nature will be given sometime before the spring holidays.

Although the plans for visiting the girls’ colleges are at present incomplete, the discussion of these plans will be continued at the next meeting of the club. The visits will be made after Christmas with the purpose of studying the work of other French Clubs and interchanging ideas with the clubs that they visit.

Fifteen Wildcats Are Given Varsity Letters

The Davidson Wildcat football team, consisting of fifteen men, were awarded their varsity letters at a meeting of the Athletic Council of the college. Six service letters were presented to those seniors who had been on the squad for three years.

Those receiving varsity letters were: W. W. Burns, Hickory; H. Cathey, Charlotte; Charles Fort, Barium Springs; C. H. Hand, Lowell; Dewey Hutchins, Lexington; R. S. Johnson, Charlotte; R. W. Johnson, Leesburg, Fla.; J. B. Lee, Barium Springs; John Mackorell, Hickory; Jim Morgan, Albemarle; Paul Pittman, Barium Springs; John Siewers, Winston-Salem; George Wingfield, Reidsville; Cole Windham, Gastonia; and Baxter Yarborough, Kannapolis.

Seniors winning service letters were: Jim Batte, Concord; William Brewer, Hendersonville; Floyd Bumgarner, Belmont; Arch LeGare, Baltimore, Md.; W. B. Ravenel, Charleston, S. C.; and John Koenig, Ridgefield, N. J.

Managers awarded varsity letters were: W. L. Northern, Sarasota, Fla.; Rigdon Dees, Greensboro; and William Atwater, Burlington.

College Business Men Hold Annual Meeting

Mr. F. L. Jackson, treasurer of Davidson College, represented the College at the fifteenth annual meeting of the Association of University and College Business Officers of the Eastern States held at Pinehurst, Dec. 6, 7, and 8. Institutions from Maine toSouth Carolina and as far west as Ohio were represented as the convention got under way with some hundred and twenty-five delegates in attendance. The meeting opened with a welcome address delivered by Dr. W. L. Poteat, President-Emeritus of Wake Forest College. Davidson, Wake Forest, and the University of North Carolina acted as hosts to the convention. Mr. Arthur G. Wilkinson of the University of Delaware and President of the Association made the President's report at the Friday morning session. Other officers of the Association were Mr. George P. Hyde, Vice-President, and Mr. Horace S. Ford, Secretary and Treasurer. Mr. C. E. McIntosh, director of the student aid program in North Carolina, made one of the principal addresses of the meeting in which he urged colleges to “come out of the old shell and give sufficient thought to the mental and social needs of students. Our colleges need to remake their mental menus,” McIntosh said, “for the modern youth has a palate which scorns the frothy substances which his dad used to consume with relish.” The meeting adjourned Saturday night with a round table discussion of various routine problems that come up in a college business office.

As Felix Sees ’Em (Continued from Page 4)

con from California, but he believes Temple will take the big end of the meet when they encounter Tulane in the “Sugar Bowl” conflict at New Orleans.

SEASON’S GREETINGS

The ever thoughtful feline calls in to remind your commentator that this is the last issue of The Davidsonian before the holidays, so it would be the time to wish all Wildcat supporters and every reader of this marvelous paper a very Merry Christmas and a most prosperous and happy New Year.

Dr. J. M. McConnell President History Group (Continued from Page 1)

After his first visit, Dr. Freeman continued, Lee was not in North Carolina in person, except when he passed through the State on his way to Georgia in 1861, until 1870. However, Lee’s daughter, Mildred, with other members of her family was enrolled in school here. After the school year the family group went from Raleigh to Warren White Sulphur Springs, near Warrenton, where Lee’s daughter, Annie, died and was buried in late 1862. Because of this, when Lee passed through the State in March, 1860, he stopped in Warrenton to visit his daughter's grave. He then left the State, passing through Raleigh, Salisbury, and Charlotte, but returned in April to Wilmington. He was proud of and deeply appreciated, Dr. Freeman said, the kindness shown his daughter by North Carolinians.

Lee's chief associations with the State, however, were military, Dr. Freeman pointed out. These associations were classified by the speaker under six headings. First of these relationships, Dr. Freeman continued, was Lee’s defense of the Albemarle Sound in its relation to Norfolk, where the greatest of the Confederacy’s Navy Yards was located. The second was Lee’s efforts to protect the State from invasion. As unofficial ambassador from President Jefferson Davis to Governor Vance, Dr. Freeman continued, Lee was concerned largely with the maintenance of cordial relations between North Carolina and the Confederate government in his third relationship to North Carolina. His fourth relation with the State came through increased employment of North Carolina troops in his army. This increase was begun after Gettysburg, but was more marked after May, 1864. Towards the end of the war, Lee relied heavily on North Carolina for troop replacements, Dr. Freeman pointed out, and also developed a large number of North Carolina general officers. Lee regarded General Pender, North Carolinian, killed at Gettysburg, as one of the most promising officers in the army. “Without the aid of North Carolina and the reinforcement of his army by North Carolina troops,” Dr. Freeman said, “Lee could not have carried on the campaigns of war during its last year. And there was an extraordinary shift to North Carolina general officers towards the end of the war.” Lee's fifth relationship with the State was strategic, in which he was concerned with the protection of the communications lines through the State. The existence of the army, Dr. Freeman said, depended on railroad lines being kept open through the State, and Lee especially exerted himself to secure the completion of the Piedmont railroad, now a part of the Southern, from Danville to Greensboro, as it appeared that on this line the fate of his army was dependent.

Phi Beta Kappa Hears Rev. Chalmers (Continued from Page 1)

Dr. Chalmers is an outstanding young leader in the Southern Presbyterian Church. He graduated from Davidson in 1920. While a student here, he made an enviable record in scholarship as well as in campus activities. Ten men received bids for membership into the Phi Beta Kappa at Davidson. Two alumni, Rev. D. M. Chalmers and Mr. A. L. Foscue, who was an outstanding member of the class of 1920 in scholarship, were invited into the Gamma. Keys and certificates were presented to the new members. Phi Beta Kappa is the oldest and largest of the Greek letter fraternities for scholastic achievement. It was established at William and Mary College, Va. and later it had established chapters in other outstanding institutions. There are now over 100 chapters and has an enrollment of over 60,000 members.

Stuffy Head

Just a few drops up each nostril. Quickly, breathing again becomes clear!

FRIDAY, Davidson Theatre

WEDNESDAY, DEC. 12 WHITE PARADE WITH LORETTA YOUNG AND JOHN BOLES

THURSDAY, DEC. 13 THE PURSUIT OF HAPPINESS WITH FRANCIS LEDERER, JOAN BENNETT, CHARLIE RUGGLES AND MARY BOLAND

A WICKED WOMAN WITH JEAN PARKER AND CHARLES BICKFORD

SATURDAY, DEC. 15 BABBITT WITH ALINE MACMAHON AND GUY KIBBEE

MONDAY AND TUESDAY, DEC. 17 AND 18 FLIRTATION WALK WITH DICK POWELL AND RUBY KEELER

DEC. 14

© 1934, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.

It’s the cigarette that’s MILDER that TASTES BETTER

Wait a minute—here’s what she smokes—Chesterfield