**CATS AND DEACONS RATED EQUAL FOR COMING STRUGGLE**

The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS.

WATTS TO DEFEND CHAMPIONSHIP ON RICHARDSON FIELD

Vol. XXII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., NOVEMBER 28, 1934 No. 10

WILDCATS READY FOR DEACON OUTFIT

ANNUAL DRIVE FOR CHRISTMAS FUNDS TO START

Gifts Will Go To Mountain Mission Work In Northwestern Carolina

DRIVE TO START DEC. 11

Work Is Under Leadership Of Rev. R. H. Stone

In recognition of the great Gift that came to all mankind at Christmas time, there has grown up a fine custom at Davidson. Each year the student body makes a Christmas offering to some definite Christian work. To carry on this fine work, the Y. M. C. A. has chosen for this year the mountain mission work in the northwestern section of North Carolina.

In past years, this fund has been used for such places as Barium Springs Orphanage, Banner Elk, Foreign Mission Board, Glade Valley High School, Mission work in China under the direction of Frank Price, and the Davidson Unity Church, which is conducted entirely by the students. After careful consideration of the various projects presented to the Cabinet this year, it was decided that the one in greatest need, and perhaps having the greatest appeal to the students, was that of the work in Ashe County. This work is under the leadership of Rev. R. H. Stone, who graduated from Davidson in 1918, and after having finished his seminary course took up the work there in 1923. The progress has been so great that he and his associates have gained recognition throughout the South. Beginning with four churches and a total membership of 84, this field has grown until there are thirteen churches and a membership of 760. This section of the mountainous country is very destitute, and the only religious work done there is that carried on by these workers. The special need at the present time is help in finishing the two churches that have been started, but not completed due to lack of funds. The outsides of the buildings are complete but the insides have not been touched, and it will be impossible to have services during the winter days for there are no heating plants in either of the churches, nor are there any partitions in the Sunday School rooms. In one of Mr. Stone's letters, he writes, “The people here are quite poor—but (Continued on Page 6, Column 2)

Thirteen Seniors Close Gridiron Careers

Thirteen members of the Senior class will close their football clash with Wake Forest on Richardson Field. Three of these men were not present for the taking of the above picture, these being Captain Johnny Mackorell, Jim Batte, and Barney Hand. Those pictured are, from left to right: F. L. Bumgarner, J. J. Koenig, J. B. Lee, John Siewers, Charlie Fort, Bill Brewer, Dewey Hutchins, A. J. Potter, George Wingfield, and Jim Morgan.

WATTS-GEORGIA SITUATION IS TENSE AS GRID BATTLE LOOMS

THE DAVIDSONIAN RECEIVES HONOR

Paper Awarded First Class Honor Rating By National Scholastic Press Association

The Davidsonian for 1933-34 was awarded a First Class Honor Rating by the National Scholastic Press Association according to a letter and certificate received by K. D. Weeks recently. The letter and certificate were from the 1934 All-American Newspaper Critical Service which held its fourteenth meeting at the Department of Journalism of the University of Minnesota. The words of the certificate stated, “The Davidsonian in recognition of its merit is awarded First Class Honor Rating by the Fourteenth National Newspaper Critical Service of the National Scholastic Service at the University of Minnesota, Department of Journalism.” A legend in one corner of the certificate showed that the First Class Honor Rating is Excellent, the second highest rating. (Continued on Page 6, Column 3)

Sophomores Complete Plans For Their Annual Dance Set

Johnny Long Will Be Feature Of Coming Centennial Social Event

Final plans for the gala Sophomore Week-End, a brilliant feature of Davidson’s social calendar, are now in their last stages and all present indications point to an enjoyable week-end. Johnny Long and his Duke Collegians, already well-known in this vicinity, will furnish the music for the dances which will head the list of attractions. Long and his band were here last year and made a very favorable impression. He has announced that he has added several new novelty numbers with which he will feature the first two dances of the set. Three dances will be held. The first affair at the Hotel Charlotte Friday night, Dec. 14, from 9:30 to 1:30 o'clock. The second will be a tea dance at the Charlotte Armory and will be held from 4:30 until 6:30 o'clock Saturday afternoon, whereas the final dance will also be at the Armory on Saturday night from 8:30 until 12:00 o'clock. These last two dances will be informal. The faculty members who have been asked to attend the dances are: Dr. and Mrs. C. K. Brown, Dr. and Mrs. W. P. Cummings, Prof. and Mrs. E. J. Erwin, Dr. and Mrs. S. C. Lyon, Prof. and Mrs. W. McGavock, Capt. and Mrs. Norton G. Pritchett, Major and Mrs. J. T. Rhett, Prof. and Mrs. L. B. Schenck, Capt. and Mrs. Charles W. Seifert, and Dr. and Mrs. G. B. Watts.

December 19 Is Named For Snapshot Deadline

The dead-line for acceptance of Senior informal snapshots for the “Quips and Cranks” will be Wednesday, December 19, according to Editor Bob Smith. In order to facilitate the work, assistance has been offered by members of the Photography Club, who will make the pictures for a nominal sum. At present, approximately thirty men, only one-third of the entire class, have had their pictures made. These snap-shots are of vital importance to the success of the Annual, and all Seniors are urged by the Staff to cooperate in this attempt to give the Yearbook a personal touch.

Associations Purchase Moving Picture Camera

The Alumni Association and the Athletic Association have bought jointly a Bell and Howell moving picture camera and a projector. The camera was used in the games with Carolina and with V. M. I. to take pictures of Davidson's offensive plays. Some of these pictures have been shown to the players and to the coaches. The camera will be used in the future to take pictures of campus activities and of other athletic events. Slow-motion pictures can be taken. These will prove of value in showing players their mistakes and in helping to correct them.

Georgia’s Challenge Rouses Ire Of Watts “Tea Party Attendants”

WILL BE THIRD CONFLICT

Rival Coaches, Players Confident Prophecies Issue

(Special to The Davidsonian)

The diplomatic situation on the Watts-Georgia front takes on an atmosphere of tension as December 4th, the day when the two respective dormitories again attempt to settle their ancient dispute on the gridiron, looms on the forward horizon. Since the day that Georgia threw a bombshell into the erstwhile peaceful ranks with peremptory challenge, followed by a gallant reply from Watts, not even the most nonchalant passerby fails to notice the feelings that defy mere walls of the dormitories and clash in the twenty-five yards of separating space. Nightly, the contestants of the teams gather before their Alma Mater and stage pep meetings to which the annals of Davidson history fail to find parallel. Watts scored first by opening fire Thursday night but Georgia evened the count on Friday when, led by Geddie Monroe, it staged a mammoth spectacle. Drawing upon its musical resources, Georgia produced such a rarity as a 10-piece band and the prolific Monroe and his staff of assistants turned out a collection of pep songs, cheers, Bronx and otherwise, that would mock the fertility of a Dumas. The pep meeting was concluded with a shirt-tail parade ending on the volleyball field, where the coaches and players gave their promises for a decisive victory. (Continued on Page 6, Column 4)

Five Men Will Tryout For Sports Announcing

A tentative list of five men was selected from the group of twelve previously chosen candidates for the announcing job who reported to Richardson Field for tryout during the varsity and freshman scrimmage last Thursday afternoon. These candidates were graded on voice, accuracy in reporting the game, and enunciation, and three of them especially stood out in clarity, carrying power, and ease of speech. Mr. Joe Johnston, of Barium Springs, Capt. N. G. Pritchett, professor of physical education, and two other faculty members acted as judges. Captain Pritchett stated that the authorities are seeking an announcer who is easy to listen to and who can be understood even when the listener is talking to someone at his side. The men chosen will be given further try-outs next spring, when they will be allowed to announce track events. Final selection will be made at that time. Remaining candidates are: W. S. Edwards, P. W. McClanahan, A. T. Port, L. T. Purnell, and J. M. Westall. This is the first year that competitive tryouts have been held.Held for this position.

ON HORIZON LINGUISTS PLAN TWO-DAY MEET

Fleagle, Watts, Vowles To Represent Davidson On Saturday Program

The seventh annual meeting of the South Atlantic Modern Language Association will be held at the College of Charleston, S.C., November 30 through December 1. Three Davidson men, Professors Fleagle, Watts, and Vowles, are on the program. The Modern Language Association includes the states: North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, and Florida. It has met at Converse College, Spartanburg, S.C.; at Davidson in 1930; and at the University of South Carolina, Columbia, in 1931. It has also met at Atlanta, Georgia, under the auspices of the Atlanta colleges, in 1932; and at Duke University, Durham, in 1933. Clement Vollmer, of Duke, and John Strausbaugh, of Emory University, were elected president and secretary respectively. The Association includes the English, French, Italian, German, and Spanish departments.

The meeting will be opened Friday, November 30, by the chairman Clement Vollmer, and at that time reports will be made by standing committees. This will be followed by the presidential address. That night, the dramatic society of the College of Charleston will present Moliere’s play, “The Doctor in Spite of Himself,” in the English version. At the conclusion of the performance of the play, the College will tender the officers and members of the Association an informal reception in the Library.

On Saturday, December 1, the departmental section meetings will be held in the respective classrooms. At the French meeting, Dr. George B. Watts will present a paper “Louis Racine’s De la Grace.” In the German meeting “Vagaries of the Modal Auxiliaries” will be read by Dr. G. R. Vowles. Prof. Fred K. Fleagle will conduct a “General Discussion of Sectional Problems” in the Spanish section. The South Atlantic Modern Language Association will conclude its seventh meeting with a general business discussion on Saturday morning, December 1. The following institutions will be hosts to the Association: College of Charleston, The Citadel, Ashley Hall, Memminger Girl’s High School, Porter Military Academy, Charleston Boy’s High School, and Bishop England High School.

The Davidson professors who are members of the Association are: Prof. F. L. Blythe, and Prof. F. K. Fleagle, of the Spanish Department; Prof. Sylvain Minault and Dr. George B. Watts, of the French Department; Dr. Edwin F. Shewmake and Prof. Edward J. Erwin, of the English Department, and Dr. G. R. Vowles, of the German Department.

JOHNNY MACKORELL AND SWAN TO PLAY FINAL COLLEGE TILT

GROUP DISCUSSES WILLS IN TALKS

College Executives And Trust Officers Meet On ‘More And Better Wills’

More than twenty college executives and many trust officers of North and South Carolina convened at Davidson College, Wednesday, November 21, to discuss the subject of “More and Better Wills.” The object of the convention was to bring together colleges, trust companies, insurance companies, the legal profession and the public, for the purpose of considering their mutual overlapping interests. The sponsors of the conference, the Commission of Permanent and Trust Funds of the Association of American Colleges, decided upon meetings of this nature to serve the financial interests of colleges and universities by getting the people to recognize the importance of making wills and of having the wills properly prepared and executed.

The subjects discussed in this relation were: “Why Put Colleges in Your Will,” Dr. Clyde A. Milner, President of Guilford College; “Why Have a Trust Company Administrate Your Will,” Robert G. Stockton, vice-president and trust officer of Wachovia Bank and Trust Company in Winston-Salem; the topic, “Why Have an Attorney Prepare Your Will,” was discussed by P. C. Whitlock, attorney for the American Trust Company of Charlotte. “How We Can Help Our People to Become Will-Minded,” was the title of Gilbert T. Stephenson’s address. He is vice-president and trust officer of the Equitable Trust Company, Wilmington, Del., and “The Future of College Finances,” by Dr. Robert L. Kelly, executive secretary of the Association of American Colleges.

“There are many reasons familiar to us why colleges should be included in wills,” Dr. Milner stated. He declared that in every age there have been personalities who have felt the responsibility of sharing their possessions. “More and Better Wills” is one of a series to be held under the sponsorship of the Commission of Permanent and Trust Funds of the Association of American Colleges. To this convention were invited about fifty college presidents of North and South Carolina and trust officials who wished to attend. F. L. Jackson, treasurer of Davidson College and Chairman of the Permanent and Trust Funds committee, gave a brief resume of the addresses and activities of the conference members over Station WBT, preceding the musical program of the Davidson Band, Friday at 9:00 P.M. A copy of the addresses delivered by the conference speakers may be secured by writing to Station WBT, Charlotte, or by writing to Davidson College.

Holton And Kitchin To Oppose Hutchins And Wingfield In Tomorrow’s Classic

PASS ATTACK PROBABLE

Wake Forest Beat State; State Held Davidson 7-0

With spirit running high on the campus in anticipation of Davidson's gigantic Turkey Day clash with Wake Forest's Demon Deacons, 29 members of the ’Cat varsity squad are silently counting the hours until the opening whistle at 2:30 tomorrow afternoon. On Richardson Field, Davidson will be fighting against their traditional foe in the Demon Deacons and both teams are expected to ring down the final curtain of their 1934 gridiron campaign in a spectacular and powerful fashion. The contest will settle the dispute as to which team will occupy the basement in the Big Five Football League. Although the Deacons have met with disaster in most of this year's campaigns, they have, nevertheless, put a great deal of fear and skepticism into the hearts of their opponents as regards their potentialities with the pigskin. This has come about largely because of the fact that the Wake Forest eleven upset the dope, during the early part of the season to lay Hunk Anderson’s highly vaunted eleven in the shade; that team having defeated Davidson 7-0 in a night game at Greensboro. Coach Jim Weaver has been worried considerably by the effectiveness of Davidson's passing attacks in previous games this year, and with that in mind, he has taken up a good part of his time in dealing with a pass defense, which he hopes will limit the activities of the ’Cats Thursday. The Deacon Mentor believes, according to a statement, that the ’Cats have the best pass attack of any of the Big Five teams, but should Mackorell’s heaves be kept out of the slot, he feels that the Baptists will be able to give their slightly favored opponents a tough game. Deacon Mentor, Coach Weaver also believes that, “besides possessing a great aerial attack, the Davidsonians have, in Mackorell, the equal of Wallace Wade’s Ace Parker in booting the ball, and by far one of the greatest broken field runners in the South.” Besides work on pass defense, Weaver has also stressed the importance of his big linemen particularly, Captain Pat Swan, in getting into the backfield of the ’Cats and smearing the quartet of famous pony backs.

Wake Forest will try to match the running, kicking, and passing of Mackorell in the person of Walton Kitchin, 172-pound sophomore quarterback and son of the school’s President. Kitchin’s fame lies mostly in his passing. Although he heaves them underhanded, he has been marvelously accurate, having set a record of 18 complete passes out of 21 tries in a game against the Duke freshman last year. In addition to these qualities, he is a brilliant broken-field runner and has displayed a great generalship in his first year of Varsity Competition.

(Continued on Page 4, Column 2)

Coit Chosen Senior Advisor Of Frosh In Close Ballot

Double Cuts Given For Week Of Thanksgiving

In accordance with the general procedure concerning absences which has been adopted by the executive committee this year, double cuts will be given before and after the Thanksgiving holiday. This order will affect absences on Tuesday and Wednesday before the holiday, and also on Friday and Saturday. However, a student who wishes to leave the campus at noon Friday, may notify Dr. Sentelle in advance of his intentions of leaving, consequently having the cuts on Friday afternoon and Saturday counted single.

Final Selection Result Of Three Eliminations From Field Seven

R. T. Coit was elected Senior Advisor of the Freshman class on the third ballot, held in chapel on November 24. He won the position over the following other members of the senior class: Rigdon Dees, Blanton Little, John Newton, Walter Sprunt, K. D. Weeks and Hugh Yelverton. Weeks and Yelverton were eliminated in the first ballot, and Dees, Little and Sprunt on the second ballot. Coit was chosen over Newton in the final ballot. Coit is a member of Phi Beta Kappa, of Omicron Delta Kappa, Captain of Company C of the R.O.T.C. Unit, member of Scabbard and Blade, and several other honorary fraternities.