THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 21, 1934

Discusses Present Monetary Policies In U.S. Government

Davidson Professor of Economics Says Unreasonable Credit Expansion Forced Nation to Leave Gold Standard

ANALYZES U. S. TREND

States That Depreciation of Currency Means Repudiation of America’s Word and Promise

Dr. C. K. Brown, Davidson College economist, spoke before the Junior Chamber of Commerce on Wednesday, February 14. Dr. Brown appeared for Word H. Wood, of the American Trust Company, who was scheduled for the address but was prevented from appearing because of a cold. He said that any depreciation of currency was a repudiation, and any repudiation meant that a nation had gone back on its sacred word and promise. However, there are alternatives that make it desirable to do even that, and such was the case with the United States.

“No one can get rich by producing less and less. If the government should carry this proposition to its absurd end it would pay us all to do nothing. In America we operate on the principle of trying to boost prices and profits by holding down production.” Credit expansion, beyond reasonable limits, caused falling prices, which in turn forced the nation into a position where to go off the gold standard and repudiate its promises to pay in gold, although it had gold.

“America went off the gold standard without any outside pressure such as forced England off. We are trying to force our dollar down in value when it is so strong that it continues above 59 cents even after we announce to other countries that it is worth no more.

“This situation came about when our debts—not government debts but private debts—became such a severe burden. For several years we let the insolvency in the land eliminate itself by the natural but slow course of bankruptcy. Finally, the administration decided that this couldn't go on any longer. Goods were being forced on the market and prices continued to go down. We reached a point where the banks themselves were not solvent and a banking holiday had to be declared. Abandonment of the gold standard followed as the last means of causing a rise in prices.”

A 40 per cent decline in the dollar meant a 66 2-3 per cent rise in credit. Probably the nation can be more justly criticized for its large increase in prices. England’s advantage which it had had since it had gone off the gold standard then became America’s. Now if France should decide to go off the gold standard the advantage would be hers. Now probably there will be a race between the three principal nations in the form of a competitive depreciation. There was so much trouble over tariff that world trade was almost halted. Some international agreement, which would fix the standards, would be very desirable.

The depreciated dollar has increased credit, raised prices, and restored some degree of solvency to debtors. The bad phase is with the salaried man who is in debt and who finds that the increase in his salary does not keep up with the increase in prices and therefore his burden of debt is no lighter.

“All of this is temporary, however,” he said. “It may be just a boom and there is nothing to prevent another depression afterwards. There is nothing about this program to prevent us from getting right back into the same mess again. In which case there will be nothing to do but to depreciate the dollar again. It is all a temporary expedient.”

S. & W. Will Honor Davidson Students

Popular Restaurant Will Hold Special Night Feb. 24

Davidson students and their friends will be honored with a special night at the S & W Cafeteria in Charlotte, Saturday, February 24. The restaurant will be appropriately decorated in Davidson's colors, and special concessions will be given to Davidson students. There will be a special program given, on which Dave McLain, Geddie Monroe, and Billy Northern will appear as “The Pills Brothers.” Other Davidson men will probably be on the program also. This is one of a series of special nights given by the S & W on Saturday nights in honor of various schools and organizations. Last week a program was given in honor of Queens-Chicora College.

Another Wake Forest Building Is Destroyed

Wingate Memorial Hall Gutted by Flames Feb. 14

The third Wake Forest educational building to be destroyed in the past ten months, Wingate Memorial Hall, the second oldest building on the campus, was almost completely destroyed by flames early on the morning of St. Valentine’s Day, February 14. At 2 o'clock in the morning, Wayland Brittin turned in the alarm, but the flames continued to burn until every consumable portion of the building had been demolished and only the walls remained.

From all appearances, the fire started on the floor, on the dais of the chapel or on the stairs leading from the physics lecture room to the auditorium platform. A number of boys rooming in Hunter Dormitory were aroused by the alarm and did considerable work in helping save equipment in the physics laboratory and the psychology classroom. Although little was salvaged from the building in general, most of the equipment was saved in the north end of the building. Nearly all the chairs, desks, maps, and various valuable materials in the two language rooms, the “Howler” office, and the news bureau were removed from the building without great damage. Except for a few pieces, almost all the college band’s instruments, the chapel seats, and all the portraits of distinguished Wake Forest alumni were completely lost to the flames.

How the fire started still remains a mystery. As the band had practiced in the auditorium during the earlier part of the evening, it is possible that a carelessly discarded cigarette butt may have been the cause. And yet, the fact that Wingate Hall is the third large fire that has occurred on the campus in the past ten months seems significant to many, including the school newspaper, “Old Gold and Black.” The Wake Forest and the Raleigh fire departments were called to the fire, but both arrived on the scene too late to prevent further destruction. Besides the entire loss of the building, a severe loss was also incurred to the materials and equipment inside. Dr. D. B. Bryan estimated that insurance amounting to a total of approximately $42,000 or less would probably be awarded the college for damages done by the fire, including about $30,000 for the building and $12,000 for destruction of inside appurtenances. At present Dr. W. E. Speas is checking the losses in the physics laboratories; these are estimated to be in the neighborhood of $1,500.

To many of the students, perhaps the most severe blow was the destruction of almost all the band instruments, amounting to several thousand dollars in value. Dr. Thurman D. Kitchin stated that he especially regretted the loss of a score or more of portraits of Wake Forest men, which were hanging in the auditorium. These were almost all the objects of that sort in the school’s possession.

Wingate Memorial Hall was erected in 1879 in commemoration of Wake Forest’s former president, Washington Manly Wingate. Formerly the building contained two chapels, one for church services and the other for prayer meetings and smaller religious gatherings. Recently, however, the smaller chapel has been converted into a physics classroom. There will be a meeting of the board of trustees of the college soon, to discuss the damages and the erection of a new building. This will not be called, of course, until insurance inspectors have estimated the damage and have determined the payments to be made. Although there seems to be no doubt in the minds of the faculty and students that some sort of a building will be erected upon the location of Wingate Hall in the near future, the nature of such a construction remains yet to be planned.

A chapter of Zeta Phi Eta, national honorary speech sorority, will be installed at Alabama College this month.

Dr. Sentelle

Dr. M. E. Sentelle, dean of students, left Friday afternoon for his former home in Tennessee. Returning Tuesday, February 20, he again resumed the duties of his office. During his absence, Professor P. Williams, dean of freshmen, assumed the position of dean.

Dr. Forsyth Proves Many Beliefs Untrue

Numerous Accepted Ideas Attacked by Michigan Professor

Dr. Warren E. Forsythe, director of the University of Michigan health service, says the following of some of the commonly taught and accepted beliefs:

“Poorly ventilated rooms are evil to the health because of a lack of oxygen and harmful increase in carbon dioxide”: There is never a lack of oxygen nor excess of carbon dioxide. The essential problem of ventilation is one of heat regulation. The flow of heat from the human body determines in part its comfort and health.

“Breathe deeply”: This may result in dizziness or actual faint. Such excessive washing out of the carbon dioxide in the body is useless if not harmful. Breathing should be only in response to body activity.

“Don’t eat between meals”: Social custom alone has set the time for eating; between meal eating may not be harmful if the total quantity of food taken during the day is sufficient. Related to this is the taboo against combining sour foods and milk; the normal stomach secretions are always more acid than any food.

“Green apples cause stomach ache”: These much-maligned fruits, and other foods, have been blamed for many stomach aches which were in reality symptoms of appendicitis or some other serious internal trouble. Taking physics under these circumstances comes under the heading of suicidal procedures.

“Keep clean to be healthy”: Bathing and washing are important for esthetic and social reasons but their health virtues are difficult or impossible to prove.

“Take some medicine”: Don’t, unless the doctor gives it, and do not force him to do so if he apparently does not think it necessary.

“Stand up straight”: Personal appearance and self-respect should dictate good posture.likely, however, that good posture depends on good health and not vice versa.

Prof. Albert Einstein Discusses Philosophy

“Nature and the universe are not unfathomable, and it is the human mind that so far is unable to discover the key to ultimate reality,” is the belief of Prof. Albert Einstein, famous German physicist and now head of the School of Mathematics of the Institute for Advanced Study at Princeton.

“Men of science,” he said, “at the end of the last century thought that material investigation had practically led them to the ultimate reality of matter, that this reality assumed the form of little ‘bricks’ at the foundation of the universe.”

“Physicists of our day have found that the problem is not so simple as that. Discovering indications of the transformation of matter into energy and vice versa, they found that the key to the mystery of this ultimate reality became more elusive as their investigations proceeded. No, in the place of those ‘bricks’ we have merely a mathematical symbol that tells us something about matter and energy, but not what they are.”

Davidson Will Go to Indoor Track Meet

Davidson will send a team to the Southern Conference Indoor Track Meet to be held March 10 at the Tin Can in Chapel Hill. This meet will be open to any team which wishes to compete. There will also be a meet for Freshmen. The only two events that have definitely been announced are the 60-yard dash and the 75-yard high hurdles. There will also probably be a mile run, shot put, pole vault, and some other events. Last year Ras Evans won the freshman 60-yard dash; he will probably run for the varsity this year. The team is rapidly coming into shape, but as yet Captain Pritchett has not announced which men will make the trip.

Glen Frank Addresses Farmers in Madison

Agriculture Plays Role in New Political-Economic Relationship

President Glenn Frank of the University of Wisconsin, in his message to hundreds of farmers gathered in Madison, Wisconsin, from all parts of the state, stated that “agriculture must be organized nationally on sound cooperative principles if it is adequately to safeguard its own interests or play a productive role in the new political-economic relationship that the recovery program forecasts in detailed fashion for industry and labor.”

“To me,” he said, “it is incredible that in a world of tragically unfilled human needs, statesmanship must not set out upon the quixotic attempt to increase wealth by destroying property or declining to create it. The domestic allotment type of legislation, reduced to its essence, is an attempt to solve the agricultural problem by inducing a modified famine on the installment plan.”

Intramural Boxers Prepare For Meet

Preliminary Bouts Scheduled for Latter Part of This Month

Approximately forty candidates are working out daily in the old armory in preparation for the coming intramural boxing tournament. Every day between the hours of five and six, Captain N. G. Pritchett personally supervises the classes. No definite date has been set as yet for the tournament, so as to enable any students out for spring football practice at the present to compete in the matches. However, preliminary bouts will be run off during the latter part of this month. The tournament will be conducted similarly to that of last year, a place being roped off on the basketball court for the matches and all bouts being conducted under the strict observance of intercollegiate boxing rules. Seven classes, 125-pound, 135-pound, 145-pound, 155-pound, 165-pound, 175-pound, and unlimited, will be included as usual. Only three of the winners from last year, H. Morris, B. Moore, and Earl Frazier are back in school this year and it is not known at the present time whether they will compete this year or not. Any who are planning to enter the tournament and have not as yet begun practice are urged to do so at the earliest possible moment.

Intramural Gymnastic Competition Now On

The intramural gymnastic competition started last Monday afternoon in the gym under the direction of Heath Whittle assisted by Lacy Adcox. It will continue for about two weeks. This competition is judged by how well one does certain events or the length of time one can do them. There will be ten events on the parallel bars, eleven on the horizontal bar, nine on the horse, six tumbling, and four condition. A list of these events is posted on the bulletin board in Chambers and in the gym. Everyone is eligible for this competition, and Whittle wants everyone that can to come out, since anyone may win some points for his class.

This year a trophy will be awarded again to the man scoring the highest number of points. Last year Lacy Adcox won with 248 points; L. M. Vickery was second with 235, and B. B. Taylor was third with 233. In the class competition the class of '33 was first; the class of '35, the present Junior class, was second; the class of '34, the present Senior class, was third, and the class of '36, the present Sophomore class, was last.

GRANT TO COACH IRISH

Late last week it was announced that Donald C. Grant, sports editor of the South Bend News-Times and former Notre Dame quarterback, would coach the 1934 Notre Dame backfield.

“The solution of our present educational problems is to eliminate those elements of aristocratic organization and procedure,” Dean F. E. Henzlik, of the University of Nebraska, stated recently.

CWA workers in Texas will soon begin a survey of historical materials to be found in the state and will work under the direction of University of Texas faculty members.

Band Acquires Unusual Horns and Drum Traps

Weird noises—train whistles, cowbells, canary warbles, and clock winding—caused three of Davidson’s faithful janitors to lock themselves up in a room in Chambers one night during examination period for fear of ghosts descending upon them. The cause of their fears, it happened, was Director Pfohl playing with the band’s new set of traps. The traps, a part of the equipment recently purchased by the band, serve for the imitation of trains, engines, pops and snaps, and birds. They are particularly useful in novelty numbers and imitating ghosts. Two other unusual instruments have been added to the band’s equipment, the alto clarinet and the sarrusophone. The former resembles the B flat clarinet with a crooked bell; the latter is of unusual construction and is fingered like a bass saxophone.

Courtesy Rule Laid Out for Professors

Students at Marshall College, when they learned that members of Kappa Omicron Pi, honorary home economics sorority, had edited a manual telling students the courteous way to act in class, got out another manual telling professors how to be courteous. Some of the suggestions made are as follows:

1. It is discourteous for the professor not to learn students’ names. Students dislike being called “you in the back row,” etc.
2. It is discourteous for the professor to interrupt a recitation to tell the class personal reminiscences.
3. It is discourteous for the professor to change from one book to another in the middle of the semester, thus involving the student in unexpected expense.
4. It is discourteous of the professor to publish booklets on subjects unrelated to the curriculum and expect the students to buy them for class work.

On the other hand, some don’ts for the students were included:

1. It is discourteous to laugh when a mistake is made.
2. It is discourteous to be late so that the instructor has to repeat.
3. It is discourteous to pass before an instructor without a “pardon me.”

There is an increasing demand for mechanical engineers to fill important posts in industry, the engineering dean of Pennsylvania State College reported recently.

Dr. C. K. Brown Speaks in Charlotte on Currency

Fraternities Have Informal Initiations

The Davidson campus has recently been a curious sight to behold with all the fraternities in their “hell weeks.” Various forms of informal initiation were imposed by the several orders. Freshmen of Sigma Pi Epsilon are now being required to carry a baby doll with them wherever they go. As is their usual custom, the Betas made each of their freshmen carry dogs with them. Kappa Alpha pledges were required to carry an alarm clock with them, while the Kappa Sigmas were made to wear a carrot around their neck. Practically all the orders required their freshmen to carry both candy and cigarettes at all times for the pleasure of the upperclassmen. Since hazing was abolished at Davidson several years ago, this kind of informal initiation has been resorted to by the fraternities. A violation of rules by any one fraternity is dealt with very severely by the faculty and the dean. Most of the fraternities have about six or seven days of such initiation and then have the regular formal initiation into the chapter on the last night. The major part of the informal initiation is now over, and the freshmen may settle down again to normal work.

Society “must be willing to grant that it is respectable for a young man or woman to refrain from a university career,” Pres. Robert C. Sproul, of the University of California, said recently in scoring the so-called universal system of higher education.

“Movies are potentially the greatest educational force in the country today,” according to Prof. H. B. English, of Ohio State University.

To maintain and strengthen the bond which exists between Drexel Institute and its alumni, special courses in Alumni Education have been established at the Philadelphia institution.

CARS FOR RENT
Gulf Gas and Oil
M. P. HENDERSON

under the direction of University of Texas faculty members.

“WHEN A FELLER NEEDS A FRIEND”

When you’re handed the raspberry before your honey... puff away your grouch with genial BRIGGS. Its savory prime tobaccos are tempered and seasoned for years in the wood, ’til they’re mellow and mild and minus all bite... The truly biteless blend

KEPT FACTORY FRESH by inner lining of CELLOPHANE
© P. Lorillard Co., Inc.