THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 7, 1934

HOME-COMING TO BE GALA AFFAIR, CAROLINA GAME FEATURES

In the Field of Sports

CATAWBA INDIANS LOSE TO DAVIDSON IN GREAT BATTLE

TAR HEELS HOME-COMING FOE OF WILDCATS

As FELIX Sees 'Em

By LAMONT BROWN

Saturday afternoon saw thirteen Indians from Catawba College bite the dust, but they left their calling card at the Wildcat’s
lair. Coach Kirkland’s crew put up a great fight against Davidson, but the Cats, playing a good steady game, had
the neighboring aggregation outclassed. Captain Johnny Mackorell and Joe Wingfield had another big day, running through the Indian forward wall
at will, and throwing passes in all corners for substantial gains. They both did some of the most spectacular leather
lugging that has been seen on Richardson Field in many weeks. The Catawbans seemed completely baffled at times by the
way these Wildcat aces side-wheeled up and down the gridiron. All-State team selectors will be giving this pair of backs
plenty of consideration when picking time comes. On the receiving end of a lot of those aerials was “Big Jim”
Morgan, and some of the ones he snagged looked like sure incompletes, but he gathered them in with apparent ease.
Another thought for the all-star judges. The Johnston duet, “Big Six” and Dick, filled their assignments at tackle and guard,
respectively, in almost airtight fashion Saturday. Dick, who is the Johnson of the pair, is only a Sophomore, but he
has played in the Wildcat line a good part of the season and looks like a real guard in the
making. Don’t ever call him “Big Six”, though. It makes him want to slug.

The University of North Carolina eleven comes to Davidson Saturday in its first appearance here under Coach Snavely. The Tar
Heels have a very enviable record behind them for previous games this fall, and the Newtonites will have a tough
time in their effort to take the measure of this powerful and smooth working machine from Chapel Hill when they
engage them in the Homecoming Day duel, but these Red and Black machines enjoy staging upsets in their own backyard,
and particularly when Carolina is on the opposing end. George Barclay, likely All-American candidate, captains Mr. Snavely’s outfit, and the
way in which this truly great guard menaced Wildcat attempts last season is still quite vivid in the minds of
the Felines. To keep Captain Barclay out of the way will be a large factor in helping Davidson toward triumph,
but there are certain others, namely, “Ox” Tatum, tackle, “Babe” Daniels, center, Charlie Shaffer, Don Jackson, “Monty” Montgomery, and Dick
Dashiell, backs, who will merit watching. It is interesting to note that every man in the starting lineup for Davidson
is a North Carolinian and all but four from Carolina hail from the Old North State. There will be plenty
of tar on both sides, but the question is, who will get the feathers? Your guess is as good as
mine, but don’t be surprised if the Wildcats emerge victors from this University melee. Felix says, “Bring ‘em on I’m
in a clawin’ mood.”

FELIX PREDICTS

Felix put on the old bullet-proof vest, threw up a hurried 6-2-2-1 defense, and beat it to the sidelines last
Saturday, only to be thrown for a loss 6 out of 26 times.

Here are this week’s forecasts — DAVIDSON vs. North Carolina, DUKE vs. Wake Forest, N. C. STATE vs. V. P.
I., FURMAN vs. Citadel, ALABAMA vs. Clemson, VILLANOVA vs. South Carolina, MARYLAND vs. V. M. I., W. AND L. vs.
Virginia, AUBURN vs. Georgia Tech, FLORIDA vs. Mississippi, YALE vs. Georgia, TENNESSEE vs. Miss. A. & M., VANDERBILT vs. Navy,
COLUMBIA vs. Brown.

SATURDAY’S SHOW

SOME OF THE ACTORS IN

JOHNSTON - GUARD

DICK JOHNSON, Sophomore guard, who has broken into the ranks of Davidson’s Football Lettermen.

TATUM - TACKLE

JIM TATUM, 200-pound Tar Heel tackle, who will see action here Saturday.

PITTMAN - BACK

PAUL PITTMAN, triple-threat Wildcat back, who will probably be ready for the call Saturday.

BARCLAY - GUARD

GEORGE BARCLAY, Captain and guard of Carolina’s grid team, who will prove his mettle on Richardson Field Saturday.

Johnston—Tackle

“BIG SIX” JOHNSTON, probably the most improved member of the Wildcat squad.

Captain Johnny Mackorell Leads His Team To 18-0 Victory Over Catawba

ONLY 2,000 SEE GAME

Many Long Runs And Passes Featured By Davidson

Led by Captain Johnny Mackorell, the Davidson Wildcats downed a fighting Catawba eleven by an 18-0 score last Saturday, October
3, on Richardson Field. The game, played under cloudy skies before an estimated crowd of 2,000, was featured mainly by
long runs and passes. Davidson used few trick plays, relying mainly upon straight football and a heavily unbalanced line formation.
Mackorell played one of the greatest games of his career, averaging 42 yards on each punt and six yards per
run, with three runs of 26, 21, and 22 yards consecutively; making two of the three touchdowns, and placing the
ball into position each time with his accurate passes to Morgan. Closely rivaling his captain was George Wingfield who played
a brilliant game and made the most spectacular run of the game. The Catawbans played a hard game during the
first three periods but weakened in the last when the ’Cats made two of their touchdowns. Until this game, the
Indians were undefeated and had not had their goal line crossed.

The visitors’ first threat came in the first quarter when Guy of Catawba recovered a punt fumbled by Wingfield on
the Davidson 24-yard line. Dinges crashed through tackle for nine yards. Maggielo picked up three more to place the ball
on the 13-yard line for a first down. Three more plays netted the Indians a scant 5 yards. The last
down featured an attempted field goal by Vaniewsky. The kick was partially blocked and struck one of the uprights on
the goal post, missing a score by inches.

(Continued on Page 5, Column 1)

INDIANS DOWNED BY DAVIDSON WILDCATS

B-Squad Runs Over Light Bulldogs 41-0

LeGare And Quick Score Three And Two Touchdowns Respectively

Scoring at will, the All-Americans had no trouble defeating the Charlotte “Bulldogs” 41-0 at Richardson Field, Friday afternoon. Archie LeGare
and Bill Quick set the pace for the locals, scoring three and two touchdowns respectively. The visitors were no match
for the locals and in the second half of the game, the Davidson Freshmen replaced the hapless “Bulldogs”. The Freshmen
likewise fell before the All-Americans by a 12-0 score, Quick and Reid each scoring a touchdown. Against the Charlotte eleven,
the “B” team rolled up over 13 first downs and gained approximately 250 yards, about 200 of which was from
scrimmage. Quick scored first on an 11-yard run and Johnson kicked the extra point. Quick scored the second as well
as the locals drove 55 yards down the field. Johnson again converted and the quarter ended.With the locals leading 14-0,
Johnson bucked over from the 2-yard line to open the second period, and a pass from Quick to Cumbie was
good for the extra point. LeGare on a 30 and then a 2-yard run scored, and he hit the center
of the line for the extra point. A pass from Quick to LeGare for 10 yards accounted for the fifth
score, and LeGare intercepted a Charlotte pass on the visitor’s 40 and went over for the last score. Taking the
ball on their own 46, the “B” squad scored in the last period. A pass from Quick to LeGare was
good for 39 yards. Quick made it a first down on the 5 on 2 runs, and then it took
him 4 downs to score from there. Johnson’s kick was low.

Welcome Grads
Come in to see us while you are here
White Drug Co.

WRITER REVIEWS HISTORY OF CAT FOOTBALL GAMES
Reporter Finds Game Much Different From One Then Played

1897 FIRST BIG GAME
Former Davidson Stars Tell How It Was Once Done

Perusing through dusty annuals of Davidson in the 90s and early twentieth century, interviewing genial Davidson professors who played on
Wildcat teams of yore, and looking up pictures and records of former teams, this reporter finds bits of interesting history
of Football at Davidson. As told by Dr. J. M. Douglas, who was a player in 1894, football made its
first appearance at Davidson in the year 1891 and was restricted to games between classes. Rules at the beginning differed
radically from those of today. There was no kickoff. The teams lined up on the fifty-yard line, the offensive team
formed in a wedge shape. The center of the offensive team gave the ball a kick backward, some back got
it, and the wedge smashed its way through the opposition until, by means of falling in front of the wedge,
it was stopped. “Not until 1905 was the kickoff installed in football,” says Dr. Douglas, “and then many thought the
game was ruined.” The first outside games were played with “round-up” teams from Charlotte in 1895, and Douglas relates how
a blacksmith of Longfellow’s description played havoc with the Davidson team. In 1897, the faculty “decreed that the boys might
play two games away from the campus,” as the annual reads, and as a result, Davidson played Carolina and the
University of South Carolina in Charlotte that year. They lost to Carolina 0-19 but defeated South Carolina 6-0. Dr. J.
M. MacConnell was co-captain and quarterback of that team, and he describes some peculiarities of play then. The quarterback could
not run with the ball, and no other back could run with the ball before the quarterback had touched it.
As a result, the ball was passed or rolled back to the quarterback, who passed it to the other backs.
The favorite play then was called the “Flying Wedge.” If the wedge was to (Continued on Page 8, Column 2)

J. M. H. GOODRUM
Dry Goods, Groceries
Hardware
Radio and Radio Tubes
PHILCO AND GRUNOW

DAVIDSON PREPARES
Freshmen To Meet Duke Frosh Friday
Men Ineligible To Make Trip Will Be Allowed To Play In This Game

With two losses and one tie to their credit, the Davidson Wildkittens enter the last month of their football season,
with two more Big Five foes to play. The Kitten will meet the Duke Imps here next Friday, November ninth
at three-thirty. And then two weeks later, they will invade Raleigh and meet the State freshmen on their home grounds.
In the game next Friday with Duke, the Freshmen will be allowed to use the men who, because of scholastic
difficulties, were ineligible to make the trip to Wofford two weeks ago. This will enable the yearlings to put out
their full strength against a strong Duke eleven, which bowled over the Wolfcubs 8-0 last week at Durham in a
hard game. In the game at Raleigh on November 23, however, the Kittens will again be forced to enter the
game without the services of Captain Hogan and several other outstanding players because of their scholastic troubles. As has been
previously mentioned, the N. C. State Wolfcubs bowed to the Duke Imps at Durham last Friday. The Kittens have already
played three games; in their opener, on a soaked field, they played the Darlington Prep boys to a 0-0 tie
in a game filled with fumbles. Two weeks later, the Kittens met the V. P. I. Plebes on Richardson field
and lost 12-2. Their third game was played against Wofford Fresh, this time the yearlings lost the decision 9-7.

The Thelemite Club met Friday afternoon with Mrs. C. K. Brown. This year the club is studying architecture. Miss Mary
Young read the first paper on architecture.

FOR CAROLINA GAME
Most Players Of Both Teams In Condition For Approaching Conflict
TRADITIONAL RIVALS
Barclay And Mackorell Lead Teams Into Battle

With only three more days in which to prepare for their gigantic Homecoming clash with Carolina’s mighty Tar Heels, Coaches
Newton and McEver are fast rounding their charges into shape for the greatest gridiron epic that will be staged on
Richardson field this year. Carolina, under their new coach, Carl Snavely, and led by George Barclay of All-American caliber, will
be out to add another game to their already long list of victories this year. The Tar Heels will present
possibly the most formidable team ever to take the field against the Wildcats, and it will make the 38th meeting
of the two North Carolina institutions. Snavely will bring a host of brilliant backs to Davidson for the Homecoming tilt.
Charles “Shorty” Shaffer, Carolina’s loose-hipped triple threat half-back, who made football history for the Tar Heels this year, will be
decidedly the main threat of the Chapel Hill team, although there is a little uncertainty as to whether he will
be sufficiently recovered from an injury, which he sustained last week, to play. However, reports state that in all probability,
“Shorty” will be at his regular position sometime during the game. Shaffer’s running mate, Don Jackson, is also expected to
go places Saturday. (Continued on Page 8, Column 1)

But there’s more that'll be good news, too—which is that when you come here to dinner you can do all
the paying necessary out of your change-pocket. For there’s no “cover charge,” and no extras; and there are fixed-price dinners
at 85c and $1. That says it really good dinners (we wouldn’t fib to you) and beautifully served, the good
food. Dancing from 7 to 9, or thereabouts; dinner served. So if you come early, you can pay a little
more serious attention to the good food.

Rhythm? Just Lend an Ear
The band of Jack Stern’s, that’s playing for dinner-dancing at Hotel Charlotte, rates a lot of notice. Bring your lass
around, and see. If they don’t coax you out among the dancers in about two minutes flat—well, we dare you.
