THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 31, 1934

SPRING FOOTBALL PRACTICE BEGINS

‘Around the Wildcat’s Lair’

WAKE FOREST 34 DAVIDSON 25

Well! It looks as if the gods were determined to pit themselves against the ole boy. There goes another good guess up the flue. We still hold that the Wildcats would have made a much better showing against these W. & L. and V. M. I. grapplers had they not been without the services of Potter and Sprunt. They put up a whale of a good fight against superior odds, however, and deserve a hand for their spirit. Those two Virginia schools have always had a reputation for putting out good wrestling teams.

Those sharpshooting lads from State came to town just before exams and took the local quint into camp. Not, however, until the 'Cats had forged into the lead and held it for some few minutes. The students seemed to be slightly riled over the decisions in some cases, but no blood was shed, so it passed at that. And speaking of those sharpshooting Terrors from State, that team’s stands during the past week have made this reporter sit up and take notice. The Raleighites have a smooth combination there, and there’s no question about it. Their close but sure victory over Carolina, while it was somewhat of a surprise, was something to write home about. This year’s conference race may be close yet.

To Carolina go our congratulations for their splendid luck in getting Carl Snavely to coach their 1934 grid edition. They should go places with a man like Snavely behind the helm. He has made a good record at Bucknell, and seems to fit in with the Chapel Hill bunch. Well, it looks as if all North Carolina is holding the big-time coaches now. It would make the ole boy terribly sorry if Davidson should come out and lick a couple of certain North State teams in 1934! From all appearances, they should put up a mighty fine showing next season, and should make felt in a general way. They have a hard schedule ahead of them, but with eleven lettermen from this year’s team, and a fine group of reserves and freshmen coming up to fill in the vacancies in the line, there’s not much left to hope for. You can quote this reporter as saying that the Wildcats will go places against the big boys. Watch that Mackorell next season. And he has plenty of support, too, both in the backfield and in the line.

With the spring showing signs, it looks like we might take a look-see at the light-clad boys. (Who said spring?) It appears as if some Wildcats would be out ahead when the judges gather on the cinder lanes this spring. The Wildcats are headed for a championship year this season, in the humble opinion of the scribe. With Frazier, Oakes, Merchant, and Morrow in the distance events, Evans and Faison in the dashes, and Lee, Pittman, Rhyne, and Cochran in the field events, things look good. The hurdles are well covered, too, with Pratt and McPhail taking the obstacles.

We owe an orchid to Schnozz Willson, before we commit a grave error and forget. Recently, our readers will remember, he was picked for the award of the Tim Pharr gold football, given each year to the best blocker on the football team for the season. Congratulations, Eb!

The Seniors walked off with the volleyball trophy recently, when they completed a perfect standing. The Sophomores took a fairly close second, losing only two games. One of these was to the fourth-year lads, a close contest, too. Good team these Seniors had.

It looks like the younger ’Cats haven’t been able to get started as yet on the courts, taking it on the nose twice in a row from the boys from Charlotte. Maybe it’s just as well, since it will show the ’Kittens they haven’t an unbeatable combination. They have excellent possibilities, though, so don’t fool yourself.

The Wildcats were outclassed Monday by a fast Wake Forest quint, headed by a certain Mulhern, who is certainly one classy player, if you should ask us. He was the whole Wake team. The Davidson boys were simply out of the running. They will have to show more than they did Monday if they expect to make any headway against the fast Virginia teams they will meet this week. Exams seem to have helped them not a bit.

‘CAT TEAM WINS BEAR GAME BUT LOSES TO STATE

Basketball Team Trims Lenoir-Rhyne 38-29, But Wolfpack Ekes Out 32-29 Victory

LAFFERTY STARS

Early Games Show Wildcat Team Lacking Shooting Ability

In two basketball games just preceding the Christmas holidays, the Wildcat quintet defeated the Lenoir-Rhyne Bears, 38-29, and then lost a close game to N. C. State, 32-29. In the first of the two contests, the ‘Cats played a slow and losing game for the first half-hour or so, but then perked up in the middle of the last half and scored 26 points while the Bears were making six. Lafferty was high scorer with 16 points, 13 of which came in the second half. Stasavich, Lenoir-Rhyne guard, who played a spectacular game as tackle on the football team this past season, was the sparkplug of the Bear quint. Padgett was high scorer for Lenoir-Rhyne, tallying 10 points. The line-up follows:

L.-R. (29) Posi. Dav. (38)
Deal RF. Harris
James LF. Lafferty
Padgett Center Morgan
Overcash RG. Holland
Stasavich LG. Ross

In the State game, the end of the first half found the Wildcats trailing by five points, the score being State 16, and Davidson 11. Play became more brisk in the third quarter, as the ‘Cats endeavored to even things up, but the Wolfpack kept its lead by tallying 16 points before the final whistle, 12 coming as the result of fouls. Out of 16 foul tries in the last half, the State basketeers missed only four. The line-up:

State (32) Posi. Dav. (29)
Lambeth RF. Harris
Jay LF. Lafferty
Flythe Center Morgan
Rex RG. Holland
McQuage LG. Ross

Davidson 1934 Gridmen Start Spring Practice

Eleven Lettermen, Good Reserves, and Freshmen Answer Call

With five weeks of practice stretching out before them, 40 Davidson Wildcat gridiron candidates reported Monday for the annual spring training period. According to Coaches Newton and McEver, who are starting their third year of tutoring at Davidson, the workouts will extend through March 3. The first two weeks will be given over to extensive drill on fundamentals, and the last three weeks will include six practice games between the two divisions of the squad, which are to be made. The candidates are in good condition for the spring drills, having worked out in the gymnasium since the close of the football season last November. The coaches expect to begin hard work after two or three days of limbering up.

Newton and McEver face what is probably the hardest schedule that a Davidson team has had in the past several years. They have the best prospects for a fine team that they have ever had since coming to Davidson. Eleven of the forty candidates are lettermen, and many of the others are competent reserves. The freshman team sends up some good line prospects, which is the type of material needed. The triumvirate of backs which made a name for itself in North Carolina last fall, Mackorell, Wingfield, and Hutchins, are all on hand, and Verble, Pittman, Yarborough, Pearce, and Bumgarner will be there to reinforce them. Legare, reserve back who suffered a broken leg in the game with Wake Forest, will not be able to report for the spring practice. The following is a list of the men who reported for practice Monday: Lettermen — Lee, Cathey, Hand; backs, Mackorell, Hutchins, Wingfield, and Verble.

Committee to Select Winner of Cage Plaque

Members of the varsity basketball team will have an added incentive for sterling play during the rest of the season, according to a recent announcement. A special award will be made at the end of the year to the man on the team who has shown the best team spirit during the year. This award will consist of a plaque, to be kept in the trophy case in the lobby of Chambers, on which each year the name of the man outstanding in this field will be engraved. The plaque will be on display as soon as it arrives.

The award is being made by the members of the faculty basketball team, who have been quite active in playing circles, having run up against the Dallas All-Stars, besides having played the Seniors and scrimmaged the varsity several times. Those on the faculty who played on this team were Grier Martin, Coach McEver, Coach Laird, Freshman Coach Peabody, Professor Schenck, Coach Unger, Sam Wiley, and Heath Whittle. This award will be presented at the end of the year by a committee of three men, as yet undecided.

Davidson Cindermen List Tough Schedule

Prospects Good as ’Cats Meet Tennessee, V. P. I., and Duke

The Davidson College track schedule, announced recently by Captain Norton G. Pritchett, includes two new foes for the varsity, and calls for meets with several important schools, among whom are Duke, V. P. I., and Tennessee. Two of these are Southern Conference teams, and one is a Southeastern team. This is the first year that teams from Davidson and the University of Tennessee have met in an athletic way. Interest will be added to this meeting by the fact that two of Davidson’s coaches are graduates of Tennessee, McEver and Pritchett both being Tennessee men. Captain Pritchett looks forward to a good season this year.Probably one of the best in the history of the school. Building from a varsity team which lost only one dual meet last year, and with a championship group of sophomores to fill in the vacancies left by graduation, prospects are very bright. The distance events will be well filled, with Frazier, Merchant, Oakes, and Morrow bearing the brunt of the responsibility. The dash events will be taken care of by Evans, sophomore flash, and his teammate, Faison. The field will be well covered, except for the javelin, by Miller Cochran. In the other field events, Pittman, J. M. Lee, and Dolan handle the pole vault, Pratt and Phail the high hurdles, and Lee Gammon the high jump. All in all, the only events that may be weak will be the low hurdles, the 440, and perhaps the javelin. The schedule is as follows:

March 24—Wofford at Davidson.
March 28—Furman at Davidson.
April 7—Richmond at Davidson.
April 14—Tennessee at Knoxville.
April 21—V. P. I. at Blacksburg.
May 5—Duke at Durham.
May 12—State Meet, at Chapel Hill.

Reserves—Linemen: Koenig, Batte; backs: Slaughter, Johnson, Pittman, Pearce, Yarborough, Ravenel.
Freshmen—Linemen: Vass, Moore, Dickson, Johnson, Melton, Purdy, Winn, McLain, McLendon, Reed, Armfield; backs: Corbin, Sadler, Cook, and Shemwell.
Eligible junior college men—Newton, end; McClung and Lay, guards.
Men to be out after basketball and wrestling are Morgan, Windham, Siewers, Potter, Fort, Johnston, Bumgarner, Peabody, Quick, R. Cathey, and Burns; Gracey.

Wildcat Wrestlers Lose to W & L, VMI
Sprunt, Potter, Lost to ’Cat Matmen in First Matches

In the wrestling matches which took place just before the holidays, Davidson’s weakened grapplers took on two strong Virginia teams, and were disastrously defeated by both Washington and Lee and V. M. I. In the meet with W. & L., the Wildcats were unable to take even one match, hindered as they were by the loss of two varsity wrestlers, Sprunt and Potter. The boys from W. & L. took every match to win by 30 to 0. Blackwelder put up the closest fight, but his opponent won on a time advantage. A few days later, still without the services of Potter and Sprunt, the Davidson team went up against a strong Cadet aggregation, and again were at the short end of a lop-sided score, as the V. M. I. boys took every match but one, to win 25 to 5. Captain Charlie Fort was the only Davidson man to score, throwing his man to tally Davidson's only points. Potter, who has been out on account of a strained muscle, is expected to be back in the competition before long, but it is doubtful if Sprunt, who suffered a broken bone, will be able to wrestle for some time, if at all this year.

Seniors Are Victorious In Volleyball Contest

The volleyball team easily won the recent intramural volleyball tournament by winning six games and losing none. The tournament ended on Thursday afternoon when the Seniors defeated the Juniors 21-5 in a playoff game. The Sophomores were the runners-up, winning four games and losing two. The best match of the tournament was played on Wednesday afternoon when the Seniors barely nosed out the Sophomores 21-19, 16-21, 21-19. The Juniors were third, winning two games and losing four, and the Freshmen trailed, winning none, losing six. This victory gives the Seniors 20 more points in intramural competition, so that they still lead the other classes, with a total of 55 points. The Sophomores are second in this competition with 35 points, while the Juniors and Freshmen are tied for last with 30 points each. The victorious team, captained by T. Hooke McCallie, was composed of the following men: Casali, Cochran, Gladstone, Pratt, Ravenel, Reed, Scott, Grant, Snead, and Thompson.

DAVIDSON POSTMASTER

Among the postmaster nominations sent by President Roosevelt to the United States Senate for that body's approval was Samuel T. Stough, of Davidson. Stough has served as postmaster of the Davidson office since the death of Postmaster Sloan.

FOOTBALL OFFICIAL IS DEAD

The sports world bows in sorrow at the passing of Rip Major, one of the most colorful figures in football. He was a great player, one of the finest punters in Auburn’s history. For several years he coached at Wofford College. Major has officiated at several Davidson games.

Frosh Cage Schedule

February 6—P. J. C. here.
February 9—Darlington, here.
February 10—McCallie, here.
February 12—Duke Frosh, there.
February 13—Carolina Frosh, there.
February 17—Lees-McRae, here.
February 21—Boiling Springs, there.

SLEEP LATE and DINE WITH US
LITTLE PEP SANDWICH SHOP

Medal Winner:

“Eb” Willson was recently selected the best blocking back on Davidson's football team and was awarded the much-coveted Tim Pharr gold football.

Willson Wins Pharr Best-Blocker Award

By a recent vote of the Davidson coaches, Elbert Lane “Schnozz” Willson, Jr., of Athens, Tenn., was awarded the Tim Pharr medal, a gold football given each year to the man on the Wildcat squad who shows himself to be the best blocking back for the season. Willson, a senior, is a member of the Pi Kappa Alpha social fraternity, and president of the Athletic Council. He has played in the fullback position for the two years since he came to Davidson from junior college, and according to the coaches has shown a good brand of football throughout. The award has been made for the past two years, being awarded by Rev. Tim Pharr, of Cass, W. Va., who formerly attended Davidson, and was a member of the football team. The award was won last year by Bruce Peabody, now assisting on the coaching staff at Davidson.

Kittens Bow Twice to C.H.S., Defeat Concord
Cathey, Porter, and Knorr Are High Scorers of Series

Since the last issue of The Davidsonian, the Davidson freshman basketball team has engaged in several games in which they came out on the short end of the “Won and Lost” column by winning only one of the three games played. On January 11, at Charlotte, they were defeated by the strong Charlotte High School by the score of 29-20. Although they led at the first quarter 7-6, the freshmen were unable to hold the lead and were behind 8-17 at the half. Porter was the high scorer for Davidson with nine points. Their next game, with the Concord Merchants and Manufacturers, they won, 35-30. Cathey led the freshman scoring with 11 points. In this game many substitutions were made, giving the entire squad a chance to show their ability on the court. The third game was again with Charlotte High, and the freshmen took it on the chin again. After a poor start, they outplayed the strong Charlotte aggregation in the final half, but were unable to overcome a large lead and lost, 16-29. Knorr was high scorer for the ‘Kittens, tallying five points.

CATS UNABLE TO FIND BASKET AS WAKE WINS, 34-25
Wildcat Five Headed for Big Five Cellar as Result of Wake Forest Win
’CAT OFFENSE WEAK
Harris, Ross and Morgan Prominent in Davidson Play

Wake Forest’s Demon Deacons took an early lead over the Davidson Wildcat basketball team here Monday night, and though the ’Cats rallied brilliantly in the last half, turned them back 34-25. The victory practically decided the fight over who should take the cellar in the North Carolina Big Five race. Although the ‘Cats led at one time, it was only for a few minutes and the Deacons, inspired by the fast shooting of Mulhern, soon stepped into the lead. The ’Cats staged several spirited rallies during the game, but apparently the lead acquired by the Deacons during the first half proved too much for them to overcome. Harris and Ross of Davidson played an outstanding floor game and were the main threats of the ‘Cats’ attack, while Jim Morgan starred on the defense. For the Deacons, Mulhern and Swing were the principal stars, Mulhern leading the scoring with 20 points to his credit. Line-ups:

W. F. (34) Posi. Dav. (25)
Mulhern (20) L.F. Lafferty (4)
Pero (4) R.F. Harris (9)
Swing (4) Center Morgan (2)
Malloy (4) R.G. Holland (0)
Loftin (0) L.G. Ross (10)

Referee, Touhy, and Abrams, umpire. Substitutes: Wake Forest, Hatcher. Davidson, Windham and Yelverton.

Boxing Tournament to Be Staged in February
Captain Pritchett Holds Special Classes in the Gym

The intramural boxing tournament will be held the last of February, as soon as the basketball and wrestling seasons are over. Increased interest and spirit have been shown by many of Davidson's pugilistic aspirants, and the prospects for a successful season are extremely good for the coming season. Captain Pritchett is personally conducting special classes every afternoon in the gym, and anyone intending to go out for boxing should attend at least eight of these unless already out for basketball, wrestling, or some other sport. Captain Pritchett emphatically stated that he will require attendance to eight of these classes in order that the candidates may be in excellent physical condition.

QUICK NAMED CAPTAIN

Bill Quick, former Charlotte High School athlete and freshman football stellar Davidson back, was elected captain of the Davidson basketball team at a recent meeting of the squad.

Shirts and Shorts

No skimping of half-inch here and there. HANES Shirts, Shorts, and Union Suits (both light and heavy) always tally with the tape-measure. A size forty-two is a forty-two. No Underwear could grow as HANES has grown, unless it offered comfort, quality, and style! You'll be happy in HANES!

P.H. Hanes Knitting Company
Winston-Salem, N. C.

The Famous Samsonbak Union Suit