Junior Speaking Issue

OFFICERS FOR “Y” BEING CHOSEN THIS WEEK

Alenda Lux Ubi Orta Libertas

“SKIP” BROWN ELECTED TO SUCCEED WEST

Vol. XXI DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., MARCH 21, 1934 No. 22

G.H. BROWN ELECTED PRESIDENT

Nominations Made By Committee For Leaders of YMCA

Five Candidates for President Named From Floor at Chapel

ELECTIONS THURSDAY

Vice-Presidents to Be Elected From Ten Nominees

The elections for next year’s officers of the “Y” are now in full swing with eight men being nominated for
president and six for vice-president. Nominations were begun in chapel Friday, March 16, with the following men nominated for president:
Don Brandon, Kannapolis; W. F. Bell, Kwangju, Korea; Bob Coit, Richmond, Va.; T. M. Phifer, Columbia, S. C.; Bob Smith,
Mobile, Ala.; W. P. Sprunt, Jr., Wilmington; W. B. Ravenel, Charleston, S. C.; Teal Rogers, Bennettsville, S. C.; A. B.
Rhodes, Rocky Point; for vice-president, Bill Bowman, Aberdeen; Carleton Chapman, Talladega, Ala.; Harvey Glass, Richmond, Va.; Bob Lindsay, Winston-Salem; S.
F. Marsh, Jr., Newport News, Va., and Treadway Purnell, Spartanburg, S. C.

Three of these men were nominated from the floor for president, while two from the floor were nominated for vice-president.
The present officers of the “Y” are Bob Coit and Tom Phifer, vice-presidents. They will be succeeded by the new
officers, whose names will be announced in chapel later.

After the elections, the “Y” Cabinet will be selected from members of the student body who have been outstanding in
religious work. A man will be selected to head each one of the following phases of “Y” work: Deputations, Vesper
Services, World Evangelism, Sunday School and Church Relations, Student Life, Boys’ Work, Music, Freshman Work, Social Life, Chapel Services, Publications,
Self-Help, and Vocational Guidance. A “Y” Board of Control will also be selected later. This board at present includes five
members of the faculty, the “Y” president and secretary, three members of the Senior class, and two members of the
Junior class.

Program Presented By High School Band

J. C. Harper, Davidson Trustee, Directs Lenoir Band

A concert Thursday night by the sixty-eight-piece Lenoir High School Band, directed by James C. Harper, an alumnus of Davidson,
was the musical event of the week. The concert was well received by an audience which nearly filled Chambers auditorium.
The program included several very difficult numbers and the applause from the audience brought forth several encores. Prominent numbers on
the program were “Echoes From the Metropolitan Opera House,” by Tobani; “Selections From the Red Mill,” by Herbert, and “Selections
From Il Trovatore,” by Verdi. In the “Red Mill” selection was featured a large lighted red mill at the rear
of the stage, the blades of which turned in time to the music.

The soloists, Jake Martin on the cornet and Ralph Martin, clarinetist, were called back several times for encores, as were
the brass quartet and the woodwind quintet. James C. Pfohl, director of the Davidson Band which played at Lenoir the
previous week, directed the Lenoir Band in “March From the Peers of Iolanthe,” by Sullivan.

The Program

O Davidson Shields

Clarinet Solo—Polonaise From Mignon —Thomas

Ninety-Eight Will Receive Diplomas

Last Issue Erroneously Stated 62 Would Graduate

Ninety-eight, and not sixty-two, students, as was stated in last week's edition of “The Davidsonian,” are eligible for graduation from
Davidson College this spring. Last week’s issue carried a list of ninety-eight seniors who are candidates for graduation, but in
a lead to the story it was erroneously stated that only sixty-two members of the class of ’34 would receive
diplomas. Fifty-eight of the total number will receive Bachelor of Science degrees, while forty will get Bachelor of Arts degrees.
According to F. W. Hengeveld, registrar, diplomas for the ninety-eight seniors will be ordered soon.

Dr. McConnell Not To Run For Office

Dean of Faculty Unable to Compete in Election

Dr. John Moore McConnell, head of the history department and dean of the faculty, who has been urged for the
last several weeks to be a candidate for the General Assembly, said the latter part of last week he felt
it would be impossible for him to run. Dr. McConnell is a member of the Mecklenburg Sanatorium board of managers
and is much interested in public affairs. He frequently speaks before civic clubs and other organizations on current political and
economic issues, and is considered one of the county’s best-informed men. Numerous citizens have urged him to consent to make
the race, either for the Senate or for the House of Representatives. The latter part of last week he said
he would be delighted to serve in the General Assembly but felt that he could not spare the time from
his work here in the event of his election. The fact that the General Assembly frequently remains in session until
late in the spring was pointed out as a reason for his belief that he should not offer for the
Legislature. If he should be elected, he would be forced to obtain a leave of absence from his duties here,
and this would necessitate a rearrangement of his work.

Jackson Attends Meet Of College Treasurers

Mr. F. L. Jackson left Monday for Princeton for a two-day session with the members of the National Committee on
Standard Reports for Institutions of Higher Learning. This committee has been in existence for four years. “Their meeting at Princeton,”
said Mr. Jackson, “is to go over the final draft of reports of suggested forms for the National Committee on
Standard Reports for Institutions of Higher Learning. The eight or nine pamphlets covering the work, which have already been printed
and distributed, are to be combined into one volume which will be the most comprehensive and complete work on accounting
and reporting for college finances that has yet been published.” The other two members of the committee are Mr. Mills,
bursar and assistant treasurer of Princeton, and Mr. Hungate, auditor of Teachers College, Columbia University.

Dr. Gilbert Glass of Richmond Dies at Home

Harvey Glass was called home on Sunday, March 18, as a result of the serious sickness of his father, Rev.
Gilbert Glass, D.D. Dr. Glass died on Monday afternoon at his home in Richmond, Va.

(Continued on page 2)

Dr. Glass was editor-in-chief of all

(Continued on page 2)

Juniors Prepared For Varied Social Week End Program

Johnny Long and His Duke Collegians Will Play for the Dances

PLANS UNIQUE DANCES

Masquerade Will Feature Dance Friday Night

With their annual week-end two days off, the Junior class is making elaborate plans for the largest affair that has
been given this year. Johnny Long and his Duke Collegians, who have attained fame over the South, will play for
the dances which will be held in the Charlotte Armory on Friday and Saturday, March 23 and 24. There will
be three dances, one Friday night from ten until two, while the one on Saturday afternoon, from four until seven
will be informal, and also the Saturday night dance will be informal, lasting from eight-thirty until twelve.

Friday night as each person enters the doors they will be given a mask and a favor. After the orchestra
has played two or three numbers, and the dance has gotten under way, masks will be put on, and all
lights, except the big crystal ball and a few roving spotlights, will be cut off. There will be a fountain
of varied-colored balloons playing about the dancers. Just prior to intermission, the masquerade will end, and varied-colored balloons, showers of
confetti, and ticker tape will be rained from the balcony. The masquerade will end at intermission, and after intermission the
dance will be formal.

Last year the Junior class distinguished itself in an original way by presenting a cabaret arrangement in the college gymnasium.
At the Saturday afternoon and Saturday night dances the same decorations will be used, but there will be several special
features which are not to be made public at this time. At seven-thirty the Davidson College Glee Club and Orchestra
will give a concert in Chambers auditorium, after which students will go directly to the

(Continued on page 6)

Glasgow Talks To Students In Third Of Lecture Series

Charlotte Business Man Delivers Vocational Guidance Message to Record Gathering

RECOMMENDS HONESTY

Stresses Importance of Energy, Brains and Willingness

The third of a series of vocational guidance lectures was delivered in Phi Hall Friday night by Mr. Thomas Glasgow,
prominent business man of Charlotte and an official of the NRA. Mr. Glasgow spoke on Business to one of the
largest crowds ever to attend a vocational guidance lecture. As a beginning to his address the speaker stated that he
looked upon business as the greatest trade fromFrom the standpoint of intricacies that he knew anything about, “Do not feel
that business is the lowest profession,” he urged. “It has not been and never will be. Business is worthy of
the intelligence of young men.” In answering the question, “What is the most important thing a businessman wants when he
hires a young man?” Mr. Glasgow stated that “common, ordinary honesty” is the most important quality that businessmen require. He
warned his listeners, “Do not let others set your standard of honesty. You set it.” After honesty, the speaker added
that energy, brains, and the willingness to learn are the next essentials of the young businessman’s character. “Do all you
are paid to do and more. Learn the job above you so that when promotion comes, you will be prepared
for it.” When asked, “Should the young businessman have intimate friends?” Mr. Glasgow replied that it was best to be
intimate with none and friendly with all. The speaker also stated that a college degree is, of course, fine, but
the employer does not consider that only. Although many college graduates are good businessmen, there are (Continued on page 2)

Dean of Davidson Faculty Believes President’s Policies Will Restore Economic Prosperity to United States

“Yes, I am very much in favor of the new deal,” said Dr. J. M. McConnell, dean of faculty, in
an interview Monday afternoon. “I think it is an honest effort on the part of President Roosevelt and his associates
to restore economic prosperity in this country. Though I see some things to criticize in their program, in the main
it seems to me that they are adopting excellent plans, and that in the end their efforts will lead to
the restoration of prosperity in the United States. Of course, there are many other agencies at work to help toward
the return of good times, but I believe that the President and his associates are doing a great deal to
speed up the return of prosperity. The three things most needed when President Roosevelt came into office, to bring about
a return of prosperity, were, first, the re-establishment of confidence. Our banks especially were in a deplorable condition with their
resources running low and the depositing public determined to secure cash on all their accounts in the banks. By closing
the banks and giving the people an opportunity to recover from their fear, and then by taking measures to convince
the people that the re-opened banks were sound, the government was able, after a few months, to re-establish confidence in
its financial institutions. The second important undertaking of the President was to restore purchasing power on the part of the
general public, and especially to the laboring classes. With twelve million people out of employment, and with the price of
farm products lower than they had been for decades, there were not many people in this country who could buy
the goods they needed. The NRA was the agency established to bring industrial workers back into employment, and to give
them higher wages. The reduction of hours of work per week and an increase in the wages given to working
people not only created the demand for more workers, but also gave all the workers more money so that they
could begin to buy food and clothing, and other necessary commodities. The third important step was the agricultural adjustment act.
The main purpose of this act was to restore prices to a higher level for agricultural products. This plan was
to be worked in close conjunction with the NRA. The processing tax charged manufacturers was to give a fund from
which higher prices could be guaranteed to farmers. The farmers would then be able to purchase more goods, and this
would enable the manufacturers to sell (Continued on page 5)

Heads Students

Gordon “Skip” Brown, of River Edge, N. J., who was chosen president of the Student Body for the coming school
year, being elected on the first ballot.

Music Department Will Give Concert

The college’s musical organizations will give a concert on the evening of Friday, March 23, at 7:30. At that time,
a program will be offered which will consist of glee club, concert orchestra, and piano solo numbers, under the direction
of Professor James C. Pfohl. The time of the concert, first announced to be eight o’clock, has been moved up
to seven-thirty o'clock, in consideration of the affair to be held in Charlotte. The program will last about forty-five minutes.
The program will be as follows:

Now, Let Every Tongue - Bach
O Praise the Lord - Praetorius
Glee Club
Automne - Chaminade
Piano Solo, by Kenneth Scott
In Nicotina - Candlyn
Home on the Range - Cowboy Ballad
Glee Club
Calif of Bagdad, Overture - Boieldieu
At the Glockenspiel - Orth
Concert Orchestra
Hymn of the Pilgrims - McDowell
Land Sighting - Glee Club
Solo in latter by D. McLain

Annual Elections Held By Local I. R. C. Club

The International Relations Club of Davidson held a business meeting in Phi Hall for the purpose of election of officers
last Wednesday night, March 14. The officers were elected earlier than usual this year so that they might begin work
on plans for the Southeastern Conference of I. R. C. to be held here next year. About 100 delegates are
expected. G. H. Brown was elected president for next year; W. C. Neill, corresponding secretary, and R. H. Smith, treasurer.
These three will be three of the six officers of the Southeastern International Relations Clubs during the coming year. The
other three officers will be chosen from different southeastern chapters. Grier Martin, alumni secretary, told the club about the two
conferences that he had attended. Refreshments were served later and the meeting was adjourned.

New Student Body Head Elected For Term of One Year

Richardson and Glass to Be First and Second Vice-Presidents

Sprunt Is Secretary

Voting Concluded During First of Past Week

Gordon “Skip” Brown, of River Edge, N. J., was elected president of the Student Body for the coming year in
the elections held last week. In the same balloting, R. B. Richardson, of Reidsville, and J. H. Glass, of Richmond,
Va., were elected vice-presidents, and Worth Sprunt, of Wilmington, was elected secretary-treasurer. The Student Council nomination committee made the following
nominations for president: “Skip” Brown, K.-D. Weeks, of Rocky Mount; D. M. Glasgow, of Charlotte, and Walter P. Sprunt, of
Wilmington. No nominations were made from the floor. Brown was elected president on the first ballot. L. T. Purnell, of
Spartanburg, S. C.; R. B. Richardson, of Reidsville; J. H. Glass, of Richmond, Va., and Paul Pittman, of Barium Springs,
were nominated for the first vice-president. R. B. Richardson was elected on the first ballot. Glass was elected second vice-president
over Purnell. The freshmen nominated by the Student Council nomination committee were Jack Branch, of Washington, D. C.; Carl Carlson,
of Greensboro, and Worth Sprunt, of Wilmington. On the first ballot, Branch was eliminated, Carlson and Sprunt tied on the
second ballot, but on the third ballot Sprunt was chosen secretary-treasurer. Brown served this year as first vice-president (Continued on
page 5)

Two Spanish Groups Hold Joint Initiation

Spanish Club Meets With Sigma Delta Pi

Omega Chapter of Sigma Delta Pi, national honorary Spanish fraternity, and the Spanish Club of Davidson College had joint initiations
at the meeting held last Wednesday night in the Spanish Club rooms in Shearer Hall. Six men were taken into
Sigma Delta Pi at an impressive initiation ceremony. Those initiated were: Thomas Downie, Charles Fort, Walter Ogburn, Ray Richardson, and
Hugh Yelverton, Jr. President Fred Smyre conducted the initiation, assisted by Robert Woodside and Jack Williams, Jr. At this meeting
nine new men were initiated into the Spanish Club, the junior order of Sigma Delta Pi. Those initiated were: Oliver
Anderson, Jack Branch, Cokey Branton, A. A. Dofflemeyer, James Harris, E. T. McConnell, Thomas Marchant, William Merchant, and Edward Wooten.
Following the initiation there was a discussion of Pan-American Day. The club plans to sponsor a chapel program in honor
of this occasion soon, explaining something about our relations with the South Americans. The question of keys was discussed for
members of Sigma Delta Pi and several members put in orders for them. After the business meeting, President Smyre turned
the program over to the program chairman, Robert Woodside. The program consisted of two numbers. The first concerned “Rodrigo,” a
familiar character in Spanish history. Jack Branch made the talk, using this man as the subject. “Santiago de Compostela” was
the title of the second number given by Edward Wooten. Mr. Wooten told of the history and legends of this
spot.
