‘THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 21, 1934

FLYING SQUADRON DOWNED BY ’CATS IN THRILLER

In the Field of Sports

BASKETEERS AND GRAPPLERS BEGIN PRACTICE THIS WEEK

The Wildcats again thrilled the fans with their spectacular triumph over the Flying Squadron last Saturday. It wasn't a display
of football strategy, but it was one of those affairs that keeps the onlookers from filing toward the gates before
the final play has been run. “Little Joe” Wingfield and Captain Johnny Mackorell were toting the spheroid in thrillingly uncanny
fashion, while Dewey Hutchins and Baxter Yarborough cleared the paths. I still insist that this quartet could hold its own
with any backfield in the southland. They don’t have the weight that is characteristic of most men in the secondary
department, but they know football and can really cut-up when the time comes.

The Cadets disported a pair of nice leather luggers in Urick and Clark. They were no little trouble to the
'Cats Saturday, particularly Urick, who drives a line like so much dynamite exploding.

Coach Carl Snavely has played the role of a veritable “Modern Moses” by the way in which he has led
the North Carolina Tar Heels out of the football depression they have suffered under for about a half-decade of seasons.
The wonderful success he has met with in this his first year as head mentor at the University is truly
miraculous. To accomplish this, so far as we know, unprecedented feat, makes the calm but persistent Tar Heel tutor eligible
for classification among the greatest in his field. The evident superiority of his eleven over Duke's celebrated Wallace Wade's proteges
is in itself merit enough to put him in a class with the recognized geniuses of the game.

Coach Snavely (in case he happens to browse upon these feeble words) we wish for you continued success in your
career at Carolina, and may you win every game, but one, every season.

Wildcat eyes and hearts are turning toward the Thanksgiving embroglio between the Wildcats and Deacons, another one of those affairs
that you can guess either way and still have plenty of company to console you. Felix, however, can see nothing
but his boys victorious in this contest. He confides that a good juicy win over the Baptists will not only
give them a lot of legitimate troubles to drown, but it would enable him to forget those four defeats of
the past and once again hold his head high in the presence of his friends, Mr. Wolf of N. C.
State, Dr. Ram at Chapel Hill, and even Old Man Blue Devil Duke. Felix wants to consult Enoch, prophetical minded
Janitor, who claims a thirty-year record of about 1.000 on his prognostications of Davidson games, before he commits himself about
the outcome of the Turkey-Day show, so we'll wait until next week to print his forecast.

FELIX PREDICTS

Felix attempted to cover a large number of teams last week, some of which he had only limited knowledge, and
as a result, almost a third of the predictions fell by the wayside in a day of pronounced upsets.

Here are 15 forecasts for this Saturday’s major contests: GEORGIA vs. Auburn, FLORIDA vs. Georgia Tech, TULANE vs. Sewanee, MARYLAND
vs. Georgetown, VILLANOVA vs. Temple, ARMY vs. Notre Dame, YALE vs. Harvard, COLUMBIA vs. Syracuse, PENN STATE vs. Bucknell, PRINCETON
vs. Dartmouth, COLGATE vs. Rutgers, MINNESOTA vs. Wisconsin, NORTHWESTERN vs. Michigan, ILLINOIS vs. Chicago, STANFORD vs. California.

CATS POINTING TOWARD WIN IN DEACON CONTEST

Classic Turkey Day Finale Promises Thriller—Ten Men End Grid Careers

DEKES OUTWEIGH ’CATS

Davidson Has Slight Edge In Thanksgiving Battle

The rejuvenated Davidson Wildcats will meet their ancient foe, the Wake Forest Deacons, a week from tomorrow, at Richardson Field.
The Wake Forest eleven will come here with four consecutive losses on hand.

Ten Wildcats will end their colorful football careers with this contest. These are James Morgan, end; John Siewers, tackle; Charles
Fort, Tubby Hand, and A. J. Potter, guards; James Batte and J. B. Lee, centers; Captain Johnny Mackorell and Alternate-Captains
Dewey Hutchins and George Wingfield, backs.

The Wildcats will probably rule favorites due to their win over the V. M. I. Cadets last Saturday while the
Wake Forest Deacons put up a very poor attack as they were downed by the strong Richmond Spiders, 39-6. The
visitors will outweigh the local eleven. With Swan and Wagner at tackle, Hurtt and Hood at guard, and Bulard at
center, the invaders will average 207 pounds from tackle to tackle.

This Thanksgiving classic has always been a real fight to the finish. Last year the ‘Cats won out 20-13. Comparative
scores probably give the Wildcats a slight edge. Carolina downed the Deacons 21-0, while the Tar Heels took the ‘Cats
12-2. Duke defeated the 'Cats 20-0, while Wake Forest took a 28-7 trimming from Wallace Wade's eleven. Richmond, who barely
nosed out a 7-0 win over V. M. I., took the invaders down 39-6 last week. Here the Davidson eleven
has a decided edge. However, this is offset by the fact that the Deacons handed State a 13-12 beating while
Davidson lost 7-0 to the same club.

The Wake Forest record for the present season is as follows: Wake Forest 62, Guilford 0; Wake Forest 0, Carolina
21; Wake Forest 13, State 12; Wake Forest 2, Furman 3; Wake Forest 14, Presbyterian 6; Wake Forest 2, George
Washington 6; Wake Forest 6, Emory-Henry 13; Wake Forest 7, Duke 28; and Wake Forest 6, Richmond 39.

The lineups:
Wake Forest Pos Davidson
V. Edens or Clark — LE Morgan
P. Swan LT Siewers
Hurtt or Birtt LG Hand
Bulard Center Burns
Hood RG D. Johnson
Wagner RT R. Johnston
Swing RE Windham
Kitchin QB Mackorell (c)
Stern or Gold LH Wingfield
Martin RH Hutchins
D. Holton Corbin-Yarborough

Wildkittens To Play State Frosh Friday

The Davidson Wildkittens will be out for victory next Friday, November 23, when they play their final game of the
season against the N. C. State Freshman eleven in Raleigh. So far this year the Freshmen have had no wins
and only one tie. About 25 first-year men will leave here early Friday morning for the game and will probably
return that night. State apparently has a strong Freshman club this year, having defeated both Wake Forest and Carolina frosh.
Coach Laird refuses to make any predictions. However, he did say that “If all the boys are there it will
be a good game.” Several players may be ruled ineligible after the mid-semester grades appear this week, and the team
has very few substitutes.

This spirited Davidson mascot picked Duke over Carolina last week, but the printer failed to get it in the list.
He wanted the Tar Heels to win, though, in spite of his selection.

BUFF SHOE SHOP
Modern Shoe Rebuilder
When It Is Done By Buff That Is— Enough

The above pictured Wildcat Captain, with the Wake Forest game on Thanksgiving Day, brings to a close probably the most
brilliant career of any grid warrior ever produced at Davidson. During the first eight games of the current season he
has carried the ball 90 times for an average of 52 yards per try, he has completed 25 out of
45 attempted forward passes, and his punting average has figured up to the astounding figure of 38 yards.

Ace Blocking Back Believes Davidson Capable Of Beating Deacons

Dewey Hutchins, a very important member of Davidson's backfield combinations for the past three years, is another of the men
who will be playing their final game when the Wildcats meet Wake Forest on Thanksgiving Day. “Hutch” has been a
regular for all three years, alternating at fullback and halfback. This year he was chosen to fill the shoes of
“Schnozz” Willson as blocking back, and in spite of his comparatively light weight, the manner in which he has been
fulfilling this difficult task is highly commendable. He considers Army to be the best team that Davidson has opposed this
year, and Simons, of the Cadets, to be the best back they have faced. Concerning the Thanksgiving Day contest, Hutchins
said: “Wake Forest has a better team than they have shown and one of the heaviest teams we play, but
if the team will block and tackle as it is capable of doing, we should take the game.”

“I have enjoyed my three years of footballUnder the present coaches,” * he WE HAVE THE NEW Three body-sizes with
each collar-size, giving a custom-tailored body-fit. Riege inaugurates a line of brand new, faultlessly tailored broadcloth shirts, BODY-SIZED to give
the smart air of an expensive, custom-made shirt. Come in and try one. White or blue broadcloth. Sanforized. Price, $1.95.
Packed individually -- ready to wear -- without pins or cardboards. Men’s Shop—Street Floor.

Hutchins And Siewers Views On Football Season

Star Tackle Considers Rex And Haas Best Individual Opponents

Five Davidson linemen will take the field for the last time against Wake Forest Thursday, and among these is John
Siewers, star tackle from Winston-Salem. Siewers was one of the outstanding tackles in the state last year, and has played
great ball this year, despite a knee injury sustained in the second game of the season. He is big and
fast, and his main forte is going down under punts, a task at which he is second to none in
the State.

In regard to the Wake Forest game, Siewers said: “I believe we can win this game if we make up
our minds to do so. There will be about eight men playing their last game, and they will be out
to close their careers successfully.” He said that he considered Haas of V. M. I. to be the best linesman
he has opposed this season. Ray Rex of State is the hardest back, in his opinion, to stop.

Concerning the Davidson coaches, he said: “I have enjoyed working under Newton, and he has taught me all the football
that I know. It's easy to see that McEver is a fine backfield coach by the fine backs he has
developed.” He said, “Coach Newton has done a great job in developing a line from the light men available, and
I consider Coach McEver to be one of the best backfield coaches in this section.”

Davidson now boasts a traffic light. It is located at the intersection of Main and School Streets for the safety
of school children.

WILDCATS SHOW POWER AND DECEPTION IN 27-13 WIN OVER FLYING CADETS

TAR HEELS TAKE BIG FIVE CROWN

Davidson And Carolina Only Victors In Big Five Encounters

Coach Snavely’s Tar Heels took the State championship, the Friendship Trophy, and most of the glory by their 7-0 victory
over Wallace Wade’s Blue Devils in the spotlight game of the Big Five last weekend. Other Big Five teams fared
none too well, with the exception of Davidson who took V. M. I. 27-13. State was smothered by Georgia 27-0,
and Wake Forest was likewise swamped by the University of Richmond in a 39-6 setback. Both games were out of
State.

Outplaying Duke most of the way, Carolina took to the air in the final period to clinch the game. A
pass gaining 50 yards, Jackson to Buck, gave Carolina the ball on Duke’s 10-yard line and two plays later, the
same combination was good for a touchdown. Statistics give Carolina a clear edge in every department with the exception of
punt yardage, but the game was viciously fought and packed full of thrills. Captain George Barclay and Jim Tatum led
the superior Tar Heel line and were well backed by Hutchins and Jackson, who filled the injured Charlie Shaffer’s shoes.
Earl Wentz, big end, and Captain Jack Dunlap did Duke’s star line work. The entire Duke backfield gained only 41
yards from scrimmage but the punting of Parker, averaging 43 yards, held the Heels at bay most of the game.

Georgia’s machine-like offense, a hot sun, and a brilliant 64-yard touchdown by John Bond dazzled the N. C. State Wolfpack
and Georgia celebrated Homecoming with a 27-0 victory. State gave the Bulldogs a fight the first half but Bond’s run
and two intercepted passes in the second half added 20 points to the margin of victory. Bond and Chapman clicked
offensively for the Bulldogs. Press writeups indicate an all-Georgia game as the only State player mentioned was Farrar, who suffered
an intercepted pass.

Scoring with evident abandon, Richmond rolled over Wake Forest, 39-6. The Spiders scored in every period and twice in the
first and fourth. The Deacons made a fifty-yard drive in the third, two passes and a plunge by Kitchin accounting
for the 6 points. Kitchin was the outstanding player for Wake Forest. Dobson, Schulz, Leverton, and Vaughn did the Spiders’
scoring.

Big Five teams mark time next weekend and gather strength for the traditional Thanksgiving games. Davidson will take on Wake
Forest, Duke plays State, and Carolina will renew hostilities with the University of Virginia on America’s annual “Turkey Day.”

CAGERS REPORT

A large number of prospective players for the Varsity basketball team reported to Coach “Red” Laird yesterday in the gymnasium
for the first practice of the 1934-35 season. Several lettermen from last season were on hand as well as a
large group of recruits from both last year’s Freshman team and the two other classes.

Get Set for Thanksgiving

Rather royal sort of spread, a Thanksgiving dinner than which will be ready for you at Hotel Charlotte, noon or
evening. The kitchen’s trying to outdo itself, all excitement, over the menu. And in the evening, say 7 to 9,
there’s dancing, too, you know. Jack Stern’s orchestra, with “The Rhythmettes” (three girls who like to sing) and also their
Miss Jean Thomas, will enliven the occasion. Bring the dancingest girl you know; the stepping’s fine when this band cuts
loose. Dinner’s $1.25 per person—and much more than worth it, we assure you. As to cover charge, or extra charges,
there just isn’t and aren’t any. If you’re one of the fellows (and there are lots of them) who won’t
desert “The Tavern”, whatever’s going on upstairs, you'll find a special menu for the day there too—and at 80c.

HOTEL CHARLOTTE

Davidson’s Third Victory Proves To Be Most Exciting Game Of Season

SMALL CROWD PRESENT

Mackorell, Morgan, Wingfield, And Windham Score For ’Cats

Unleashing his full supply of tricks, Captain Johnny Mackorell led the Wildcats to their third victory of the year when
they smothered Virginia Military Institute 27-13 on Richardson Field last Saturday. The game, which gave Davidson a one-game lead in
the all-time series with the Virginia school, was the most exciting, from the standpoint of offense at least, of the
season. Both teams kept the rather small crowd of spectators continually on their feet with an unusual exhibition of spinners,
lateral passes, forward-lateral passes, and other tricky plays.

One of the outstanding features of the game was “Boody” Wingfield’s spectacular returning of punts. Throughout the game he returned
Urick’s punts for long gains, several times providing opportunities for Davidson scores. Wingfield also made a number of long runs
from scrimmage on hidden ball plays.

Urick and Clark were the mainstays of the V. M. I. offense. In addition to punting and blocking, Urick made
many substantial gains through the line, giving his team some much-needed first downs. Clark gave the Newtonites a good scare
when he came into the game late in the first period and commenced a series of end runs that proved
hard to stop. In the second half Clark intercepted two Davidson passes almost on his own goal line to stop
what seemed inevitable Davidson touchdowns. McMillin’s passes also proved to be a real threat. On defense Watkins was their chief
bulwark, ably assisted by Haas, Kane, and Capt. Zimmerman.

For Davidson, Mackorell chalked up another top-notch performance. “Big Jim” Morgan, although handicapped by a hand injury, held down the
left flank in fine style and snagged Mackorell’s passes in top form. Hutchins did some fine blocking and played a
steady defensive game. Windham turned in his best performance of the year. It was he who caught a pass and
ran for Davidson’s third touchdown. Siewers, Hand, Dick Johnson, and “Six” Johnston also played a good game in the line.

The fireworks were not long in breaking out after the beginning of the game. Davidson received and Wingfield returned the
ball to the 35-yard line. On the first play Mackorell took the ball on (Continued on Page 6, Column 3)

UNDER-GRAD CLOTHES

You should “rough it” this Fall... get yourself a sport suit of tweed, cheviot, or shetland cloth. They’re the very
new things. The young men are selecting the “roughest” suits! $29.50 Two Talon Trousers

**smoothest’’ Tate-Brown Co. Student Shop 3rd Floor UNDER-GRAD CLOTHES
