Rev. C. O. Williams Talks at Vespers Scenes From the Holy Land Illustrated Talk by Charlotte Minister TELLS OF ZIONISTS
Pastor Visits Sixteen Foreign Countries on Tour

Rev. C. O. Williams, of Charlotte, presented an illustrated lecture on Palestine at the vesper service with slides, most of
which were made from snapshots taken by him during his visit to the Holy Land in 1925. Traveling with a
party of 65, Mr. Williams was privileged to visit sixteen countries in as many weeks. They made their way to
Portugal by way of the Azores, and in Lisbon were cordially received by native Christians. Thence they went to Algiers
through the Straits of Gibraltar, where the party was struck by the curious intermingling of wealth and squalor. While sailing
for Greece, a Greek on board died from a hemorrhage and the circumstances surrounding his watery burial and the disappointment
of expectant loved ones brought to mind the tragic result of those who wait too long in spiritual matters. The
visit to Greece recalled Paul’s missionary journeys and the mighty splendor of an empire that now lies fallen and decayed.

On sighting the Palestinian shore, several hundred Jewish refugees from the Balkan States broke forth into Psalms, and as they
were rowed to shore, gave thanks for their return. “As a part of the Zionist movement as many as 3,000
Jews a month return to join with their people in rebuilding a new Palestine. At the time of Mr. Williams’
trip the Zionists were bending their efforts in building a new city which they called Balfouria in honor of the
great British statesman, and which they hoped would some day rival the industrial centers of America. The places of chief
Biblical interest visited were Joppa, Damascus, the region about the Sea of Galilee, Cana, and finally Jerusalem. Mr. Williams told
of the pathetic fact that the number of Samaritans has dwindled to about one hundred and eighty and continues to
grow less. Soft organ music sounded as the scenes of the Garden of Gethsemane and Golgotha, the place of the
Skull, were flashed on the screen. With that, the lecture closed.

With the Social Fraternities

During the past week, the interior of the Beta house has been redecorated, in preparation for Mid-Winters, the walls having
been painted and the floors sanded and varnished. New officers for the local chapter of Pi Kappa Alpha were elected
at a recent meeting of the fraternity, Blanton Little being chosen president, and Jim Hodgin, secretary. The S. A. E.’s
have announced the initiation of William Mickley, of Charlotte, on December 13, 1933, a member of the class of 1936.
Kappa Sigma announces the pledging of Howard Summerell, a sophomore who transferred last fall from E. C. T. C. At
a recent meeting of Epsilon Chapter of Pi Kappa Phi, the following were elected as officers for the coming year:
A. W. Colwell, president; Hugh Yelverton, treasurer; Sam Hines, secretary; M. W. Alderman, historian; Paul Warren, chaplain; Everett Otey, warden;
Mills Taylor, editor of “The Epsilonian,” chapter newspaper. The Pi Kappa Phi's have also had their house refinished on the
inside. The S. P. E.'s have announced the pledging of Joe Bailey, of Murphy, and Robert Orr, Jr., of Byhalia,
Miss.

Prof. Beaty to Speak At Vesper Hour Sunday

The speaker at the vesper hour next Sunday evening will be Prof. Ernest A. Beaty of the Latin Department. Professor
Beaty has spoken many times in the past and with each year has endeared himself a bit more than the
preceding one to Davidson students. The members of the student body are cordially invited to attend the service next Sunday.

Roosevelt to Speak to Boy Scouts Over Radio

Next Saturday, February 10, Troop T of the Davidson Boy Scouts, under the leadership of Scoutmaster Ed Hodge, will muster
in the Davidson High School Auditorium at 12 o'clock noon to listen to an address by President Franklin D. Roosevelt
to Boy Scouts all over the land. This address, which will be broadcast over both national networks, is to be
a part of the celebration of the twenty-fourth birthday of scouting in America.Who is honorary head of the Boy Scouts
of America, proposes at this time to test the efficiency of the organization by determining what percentage of the membership
can be mobilized at one time to hear his address. In his address, he plans to outline to the youth
of the land and their leaders a “National Good Turn,” which will have a direct part to play in the
completion of Roosevelt's relief program. The Boy Scout movement is looking forward with anticipation to aiding the President in the
carrying out of his recovery program. The head of the local organization invites any Davidson boys who would like to
listen in on the President's speech to be present at the listed time in the auditorium. He would also welcome
any interest which Davidson men might show in this work.

Local Theatre Shows “Life of Henry VIII”
Charles Laughton Takes Leading Role in Production

Wednesday, February 7—The Bowery
The lustful days of the Nineties in the Bowery are very realistically brought to the screen in this picture. There
also is a great deal of humor, and Pert Kelton comes forward as Mae West’s greatest danger of the present.
Wallace Beery, George Raft, Jackie Cooper, and Fay Wray are also in the cast. The picture is very good in
its way, and very amusing.

Thursday, February 8—Easy to Love
The question of whether a man should be willing to marry a woman who is easy to love and ways
of deciding this question. The theme is very common, but the acting and the situations are very good, with Genevieve
Tobin, Adolphe Menjou, Mary Astor, Guy Kibbee, and Edward Everett Horton.

Friday, February 9—The Big Shakedown
An expose of a great illegal dope racket. There is some good action, but the plot is thin, and enough
opportunity is not furnished the actors. Charles Farrell, Bette Davis, Ricardo Cortez, and Glenda Farrell are featured.

Saturday, February 10—Miss Fane's Baby is Stolen
Details of the kidnapping epidemic are brought to view in this heartbreaking story of a famous mother, whose baby is
stolen, and who, with all her riches and power, can do nothing to recover him. Dorothea Wiech is the famous
screen star, whose baby, Baby LeRoy, is kidnapped. The story is good, the acting good, and the theme good. Alice
Brady is especially good in her part.

Monday, February 12—Six of a Kind
A laugh fest with six of the screen's best comedians all rolled up together into one large punch. There is
nothing much to the story but laughs, but all the actors try to steal the lead from the others, and
all of them nearly succeed. The six are Burns and Allen, Alison Skipworth and W.C. Fields, and Mary Boland and
Charles Ruggles, and they should be well worth seeing.

(Continued on page 4)

LOCAL R.O.T.C. UNIT PROMOTIONS MADE
(Continued from page 1)
Lieutenant Pratt-Thomas will remain on his present duties. By order of the P.M.S. & T.
Chas. W. Seifert, Captain Infantry, Adjutant.

Similar promotions are made each year in accord with army regulations recognizing the proficiency of certain cadet officers.

REV. MACARTNEY TO DELIVER ADDRESSES
(Continued from page 1)
Besides being a distinguished clergyman, Dr. Macartney is the author of a dozen or more books, the majority of which
are upon questions of religion and politics. While in Davidson, he will be the guest of Dr. and Mrs. W.
L. Lingle.

THE HEIGHT OF GOOD TASTE
In making Lucky Strike Cigarettes, we use the finest Turkish and domestic tobacco—and only the center leaves, for they are
the mildest and the most tender. And every Lucky is so round, so firm, so fully packed—no loose ends. NOT
the top leaves—they’re underdeveloped—they are harsh! NOT the bottom leaves—they're inferior in quality—coarse and always sandy! The Cream of the
Crop “The tenderest, mildest, smoothest tobacco”
