THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 11, 1934

Charlotte Pastor Talks At Vespers On Ideals of Life
Speaker Urges That Lives Be Built on Firm Foundation
SPECIAL MUSIC HEARD
Quartet Sings in Program Conducted by Students

Mr. M. D. Barrick, assistant pastor of the Myers Park Presbyterian Church in Charlotte and Director of Religious Education of the Charlotte YMCA, spoke at the YMCA Vesper on Sunday evening. The program was conducted by Sid Marsh and included a special number by the Davidson quartet, composed of Dave McLean, Frank Tucker, Hubert Morris, and J. A. C. Robinson. Marsh also led in a short prayer.

Mr. Barrick read the first Psalm, which he called the story of a happy and an unhappy man, for the scripture reading, and took as the theme of his talk the parable of two men, one of whom built his house upon the sand, where it was soon destroyed by the storm, and the other of whom built his house upon rock, so that it might withstand any tempest. He said that all men are builders, building the houses of their lives and character. First, the foundation must be on solid rock. That is the job of college students. The first picture of an artist is never a masterpiece; no man can pick up a violin for the first time and get music out of it; no man can amass a fortune in a year. Behind every worthwhile achievement lie years of toil and self-sacrifice, the foundation on which achievement is built.

"Nothing," said Mr. Barrick, "is more tragic than a house which has been built without a firm foundation unless it is a house which has a good foundation but falls because the owner fails to take proper care of it." Little weaknesses, left unrepaired, will spread and cause the downfall of the whole structure.

The second requisite of the house of life is that its doors must open outward. We must look out for others as well as ourselves. This was illustrated by the parable of the Good Samaritan. The philosophy of the robbers who beat up the man and stole his goods was "What is thine is mine." The philosophy of the Levites who saw the man in trouble and refused to help him was "What is mine is mine." But the Good Samaritan saw a man in trouble, and, although they were racial enemies, he came to his aid. His philosophy was "What is mine is thine." Our house should be a refuge for all who need shelter.

Then the house must have plenty of windows. We need all the sunshine and happiness we can get. "I have never been able to see," said Mr. Barrick, "how a real Christian could go around with such a long face. I never got the most out of life until I became a Christian. I always figure that the other fellow has plenty of worries without telling him mine."

The last and most important thing that the house must have is daily communion with God. God alone can give us the guidance and help which we need every day. When trouble comes, it is to Him we must turn for comfort and aid. Mr. Barrick closed his talk by saying, "The one thing I want you to remember about this talk is that you, and you alone, will have to live in the house you build. Build it right."

Wildcats Engage Duke Devils in Two Games

The Wildcat baseball team will play two games with Duke on Richardson Field, one Thursday afternoon at 3:15, and the other at 4:45 Friday afternoon. The line-up will be the same as that which played against State last week, with one exception. Smyre will play shortstop and Mackorell, third base, whereas last week they played vice versa. For Davidson, Jenkins or Coble will pitch Friday and Harris or Richardson will pitch Thursday. Duke will have Flor, Naktenis, and Weafer to choose from for their pitchers.

WILL MAKE ADDRESS

Dr. J. M. McConnell of the Davidson College faculty will address the men of the First Presbyterian Church of Lexington, N. C., Thursday night, April 19. The pastor of this church, Rev. J. R. McGregor, is an alumnus of Davidson College.

Council Elections

According to an announcement made by Julian West, president of the Student Council, the election of next year’s members of the Student Council will be held the last of this week or the first of next. These elections cannot be held until after the presidents of the rising Junior and Senior classes are elected, as these officers are automatically put on the council. The election of these class officers is scheduled to come off the first of this week. There will be ten men elected to the council: five from the rising Senior class; three from the rising Juniors, and two from the rising Sophomores.

Prof. Theis Attends Chemical Convention
Instructor Spends Four Days in Florida

Professor O. J. Thies, of the chemistry department here, in company with Dr. Neville Isbell, assistant professor of chemistry at Wake Forest, recently attended the thirty-first meeting of the American Chemical Society held at the Vinoy Park Hotel in St. Petersburg, Fla. This society has on its rolls the names of nearly 18,000 of the most eminent scientists in this country and abroad, and it was indeed a rare privilege for Professor Thies, interested in the science of chemistry, to attend and have the opportunity to gain new ideas and hear lectures concerning topics of current nature. The meeting began on Monday, March 20, and lasted through Thursday, March 29. There were in all eight hundred registered members present. After the registration on Monday morning, the meeting was formally begun, and three papers were read to the society at large. One, “Pine Tree Products,” by Dr. C. R. Herty; next, “The Status of Chemical Industries,” and third, “Paints and Protective Coatings,” by a representative of the Sherwin-Williams Paint Company.

Another very interesting paper was then read which was of more general interest to all. It dealt with the recovery of bromine from sea water. After the lecture, motion pictures of the constructions and operations of the plant were shown. The bromine plant is found very abundantly along the coast and more especially near Wilmington, N. C. An experimental bromine plant was maintained during the convention for the inspection of the visiting scientists, and 500 pounds of bromine per day were produced by the plant. By means of experimentation with this plant, it was discovered that a capacity plant was capable of producing tons of bromine per day.

On Tuesday, the society was divided into two sections, each dealing with different phases of chemical work. These sections held their separate meetings in the places assigned. These meetings were designed in order to bring the members of the society into closer communication with each other and to provide means of gaining a closer perspective on the work. At noon Tuesday, Professor Thies was the guest of Gamma Sigma Epsilon, national chemistry fraternity, at a banquet given in honor of Dr. T. R. Lee, dean of chemistry at the University of Florida. During the evening, the convention was entertained by the glee club of the University and by a lecture given by Dr. M. T. Bogart on the subject of perfumery, natural and synthetic.

Wednesday was devoted to business routine and papers read before the various sections. Thursday was also devoted to business meetings, and various forms of entertainment were provided, such as sight-seeing trips to points of interest. The meeting was reported as being a decided success by Professor Thies. The chemical society is said to have as its members every prominent chemist and scientist in America. Professor Thies stated also that he received many favorable reports on Davidson students attending medical schools in various parts of the country.

RHODES SCHOLAR DIES

R. H. Michlet, who was appointed Rhodes Scholar from New Hampshire in January, died of pneumonia at Hanover, N. H., in March. He was to have matriculated at Brasenose College, Oxford, in October, 1934.

Four Out Of Five College Men Come To Johnson’s Barber Shop

Select Six New Men For Editorial Posts
Barnett, Brown, Glass, Harlan, Marchant, Walker Chosen

Six members of the Sophomore class have been selected to serve as managing editors of the Davidsonian for next year. They were chosen by George Gullette, Jack Hellinger, Fred McPhail, Ben Rose, and K. D. Weeks, who are the retiring managing editors. Those selected are Martin Barnett, Lamont Brown, Harvey Glass, Paul Harlan, Tom Marchant, and John Walker. A great deal of responsibility for the success of the paper will rest on these men. Their main duties will be the sending out of assignments to reporters, collecting material for print, and arrangement of the dummy sheet.

Other members of the reporters’ staff who were considered for the new posts are E. Bowers, A. Brenizer, C. Lewis, S. McLeod, J. H. Ross, H. Summerell, and C. Young. These men will be appointed to other posts.

Martin Barnett of Meridian, Miss., has played both freshman and varsity tennis. He is a member of the Sigma Phi Epsilon social fraternity. Lamont Brown, of Barium Springs, is a member of the editorial staff of the Annual and the business staff of the Yowl, two other leading student publications. He won his numeral in Freshman baseball. Brown is a member of the Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity. Harvey Glass is from Richmond, Va. He is a member of the Student Council and was recently elected second vice-president of the Student Body for next term. Glass is a member of the Beaver Club, sophomore honorary leadership fraternity, and Le Cercle Francais, honorary French fraternity. He is a member of the Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity. Paul Harlan is from Jackson, Miss. He was a member of the freshman cross-country team and belongs tothe Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity. Lom Marchant, of Greenville, S. C., is on the editorial staff of the Annual and is a member of Sigma Pi Sigma, honorary fraternity, and honorary physics fraternity. He played freshman basketball and is a member of the Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity. John Walker is from Steele Creek. He is a member of Eta Sigma Phi, honorary classical fraternity, and played on the freshman baseball team.

Prizes Are Offered For Best Cartoons
Public School Students Asked to Submit Drawings

Greensboro, April 11—For the nine best cartoons illustrating how the North Carolina sales tax has helped to keep open the public schools and pay the teachers, the North Carolina Association of Real Estate Boards is offering $105.00 in prizes to public school students. There are three prizes of $20.00 each; three “second” prizes of $10.00, and three “third” prizes of $5.00. A first, second, and third prize are to be awarded in each of the three federal court districts in the state. Any public school pupil is eligible to contest. Awards will be made more for originality and cleverness than for technical excellence. They may be either in ink or pencil; but must be by hand and without mechanical aids. The name of the contestant, his address, his school, and the name of his superintendent should be placed at the bottom of each drawing. All entries must reach the association at its Greensboro office, 502 Piedmont Building by noon, May 1. The judges, representative citizens selected by the president of the association, will announce the winners on May 15.

Wake Forest Game Is Indefinitely Postponed

As the Davidson-Wake Forest baseball game was rained out last Monday, Coach Laird stated that the series with the Deacons would be postponed indefinitely unless the officials could arrange their schedule to fit our open dates. If this schedule cannot be arranged, there will be no away-from-home series with Wake Forest this year.

CARS FOR RENT
Gulf Gas and Oil
M. P. HENDERSON

New Store Managers

Plans for the election of the new managers of the Students’ Store have been made, and the choosing of these officers will take place sometime next week, when a meeting of the Students’ Store Board will be held. The new managers will take the posts which will be left vacant by the graduation of the present managers, A. H. Manson and E. L. Powell. As is the custom in the choosing of these officers, the election will be left entirely in the hands of the Students’ Store Board, which consists of the present operators of the store. Any junior is eligible for election.

David Harum To Be At Cinema Thursday
“Spitfire” and “Men in White” Also Offered

Some of the newest and supposedly the best of the late pictures are going to be shown here in the next few days. Among them are two in the next week, David Harum and Men in White, and the next week, Spitfire. Productions seem to be drifting away from the comedy type generally and take up a more human side.

Wednesday, April 11—Success at Any Price
This is the story of the young man who heads, as the title signifies, for success at any price. He manages to reach the top of the ladder very shortly, but then his decline is more rapid than his rise. Douglas Fairbanks is the star, and with him Colleen Moore, the girl who loves him through his rise and fall, and Genevieve Tobin.

Thursday and Friday, April 12 and 13—David Harum
The screen magazines herald this as probably Will Rogers’ best picture, with him in the role of the match-making and horse-trading small-town man, who also gives widows back their mortgages, while hiding behind the mask of a hard man. With him in the cast are Kent Taylor and Evelyn Venable.

Saturday, April 14—Harold Teen
Here are laughs, dances, and songs in this comic strip come to life. Harold Teen is played by Hal Le Roy, the tap dancer, with Rochelle Hudson as Lillums, and with Guy Kibbee, Patricia Ellis, and Hugh Herbert included in the cast.

Monday and Tuesday, April 16 and 17—Men in White
In this picture Clark Gable performs as a young intern in a big hospital. He is loved by Elizabeth Allan throughout, even though he starts to marry Myrna Loy. He operates on Allan, who tells him of her love for him and then dies.

Sigma Upsilon Initiates Several New Members

The Blue Pencil Chapter of Sigma Upsilon, national fraternity recognizing student literary talent, initiated four new men and held its election of officers for the coming year at its meeting Monday night. The men initiated at that time were: C. B. Chapman, G. L. Green, W. C. Neal, and B. O. Simpson. After the ceremony, each of the initiates read a paper on some literary subject. Later in the evening an election of officers was held. T. F. Wood was elected president; G. L. Green, vice-president; G. R. Wood, secretary and treasurer (re-election), and C. B. Chapman, steward.

RESTORES APPETITE
“AIDS DIGESTION”
College Pharmacy
“Davidson’s Service Drug Store”

Sociology Head Speaks To Ministerial Group

On Monday, April 9, Dr. Price H. Gwynn, Jr., head of the sociology department, delivered an address before the Ministerial Association of Charlotte. The title of his address was “The Christian Home in a Changing Social Order.” Among other things, Dr. Gwynn emphasized the opportunity now presented to the Church to help parents in the solution of the perplexing problems of family adjustment. He stated that the Christian home is threatened by the steady secularization of modern life, and urged an intelligent facing of the issues by the religious leaders. “The next revival of religion should start in the home,” stated Dr. Gwynn. “Those of us who are parents should live in the spirit of Jesus. We must instruct our children in the principles of His gospel and interpret His teachings in terms of present-day problems. We should teach our children the Christian ideal of marriage and prepare them for married life in the modern world.”

Gamma Sigma Epsilon Will Initiate New Men

J. H. Batte, C. L. McCall, and K. D. Weeks will be initiated formally into the Gamma Sigma Epsilon honorary fraternity Wednesday, April 11, during the regular evening meeting which is held every two weeks. The ceremony will be held in the Martin chemical laboratory and will be presided over by Rufus Morrow, president. Members of the chemical fraternity are selected according to the interest shown in the subject, grades received, and number of years of chemistry studied. The local chapter is the mother chapter of the national Gamma Sigma Epsilon fraternity.

Plans Being Completed For Costume Dances

Davidson's annual “Bowery Ball” will be held in Charlotte, April 20 and 21, it was announced by Fred Smyre, president of the Pan-Hellenic Council. Three dances have been planned and the orchestra of Archie Davis has been engaged to provide music for the affairs. Complete details have not been worked out, but it was stated that two of the dances are to be held in the Charlotte Hotel and the third in the Charlotte Armory-Auditorium.

RESERVE OFFICERS PROGRAM

U. S. Senator Shepherd, of Texas, will be the principal speaker of the program which will be presented by the Reserve Officers Association of the United States over the Columbia Broadcasting System Saturday afternoon at 2:00 o'clock. The program will originate in Washington, D. C. Students taking advanced R. O. T. C. are requested by Major J. T. Rhett, professor of military science and tactics here, to tune in on the program.

“WHEN A FELLER NEEDS A FRIEND”

Cramming is a pleasure—if it’s cramming mellow old BRIGGS into your pipe! BRIGGS is aged in the wood for years until it’s biteless. No wonder it became a nation-wide favorite before it had a line of advertising! Won’t you let BRIGGS speak for itself, in your own pipe?

KEPT FACTORY FRESH by inner lining of CELLOPHANE
© P. Lorillard Co., Inc.