| * THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 2, 1934

CINDERMEN MEET DUKE SATURDAY

In The Field of Sports

WOFFORD TRAMPLED BY TRACK MEN

As you have no doubt noticed, the name for this column has been changed; not because of the stern rejection “The Broadcaster” made to our shots while “Firing at Random,” but for the simple reason that it has become a custom to make such an alteration every year with the beginning of a new regime on the editorial staff of the Davidsonian. Then, too, variety is the spice of life, and at present this section needs all of the life and spice it can get.

To those readers who are not very familiar with the places and things on the Davidson campus, this guy Felix is the feline mascot of Davidson athletic teams. He resides in an octagonal cage near the north side of the college gymnasium, and one has immediate proof of his wildness by going near the den where a steady growl of discontent can be heard, and four paws well fortified with fierce-looking scratchers, and an occasional toothy grin, which displays a nice set of grinders that could rend almost any kind of flesh asunder, can be seen. The reason we use this fellow’s name in the column head is because he has about the best perspective of the Wildcat’s layout of anyone in the neighborhood, so to give to the readers what he sees would be covering the entire lair with an authoritative eye.

Credit for the above drawing goes to Howell Overton; one of the members of that renowned centennial class, who are at present classified as freshmen.

It was extremely disappointing for the many interested fans to see Jimmy Halverstadt, Davidson’s star racquet-wielder, suffer such a terrific drubbing at the hands of Barney Welch, the Duke star who lost to Jimmy in the finals of the state tourney. Not once during the entire match did the Wildcat ace show even a smattering of championship form. Welch was decidedly his master throughout the battle, making some very beautiful placement shots and oftentimes, by the steadiness and precision of his play, forcing Jimmy to drive his returns out of court. The ’Cats showed up in better style, however, against the Tar Heels Saturday, even though they dropped the deciding match in the state team-championship to the Carolinians.

The Wildcat batsmen yielded to the Blue Devils twice last week in a pair of rather close games. Both of the Davidson pitchers, West and Jenkins, hurled jam-up ball, but a host of errors accompanied with an evident lack of team spirit, lost both of these contests for the Felines. Jenkins in the engagement gave the Dukes only four safe blows, but the Durham lads made them good for the same number of runs, so the ragged fielding and absence of pep on the part of the players can surely be blamed for this defeat.

Captain Pritchett’s proteges had a nice day of competition on the cinders among themselves Saturday afternoon when the Wofford Terriers eked only 19 points out of the Wildcats, who garnered 107. Earle Frazier’s stellar performance in the mile run was particularly outstanding. He covered the distance in 4 minutes, 30.1 seconds, which slices more than six seconds off his own record established earlier in the season. If this sophomore continues to lower the time for the four-lap run, at his present rate, Davidson (Continued on page 6)

Blue Devils Down ’Cat Nine In Close Games At Durham

Jenkins and West Pitch for Davidson Against Strong Durham Outfit

ERRORS ARE COSTLY

Morgan and Smyre Outstanding for Wildcats

In a series of two games played at Durham last Wednesday and Thursday, the Duke Blue Devil baseball team emerged victorious over the hard-fighting Davidson Wildcats, winning the first contest 5 to 1, and the second 4 to 2.

In the first of the series of games, played on Wednesday, Duke bunched six hits, including Pitcher Ken Weafer's home run, and three-base hits by Wagner, Huiskamp, and Weaver, to chalk up an early victory for the university team. Morgan accounted for Davidson’s only run. Weafer allowed only five hits and three of these were made in the seventh. Julian West pitched an excellent game for the 'Cats, but the Duke attack in the third inning put the game on ice. Wagner, opposing catcher, with a triple and two singles, led the Blue Devils in the hitting department.

Davidson Duke 00 100—1

Duke marked up their second victory over the Wildcats Thursday afternoon by scoring two runs in the eighth inning on a walk and consequently breaking a 2-2 tie. Two errors and a stolen base in the second inning accounted for the Dukes’ first two runs, while a two-base hit by Smyre and a one-bagger by Wingfield brought the score to a tie, which lasted until the eighth inning. A beautiful mound duel was staged between Jenkins of Davidson and Naktenis and May of Duke. Jenkins allowed the Blue Devils only four hits, three of these being scratches, but the poor support afforded him kept the game from being a victory for the ‘Cats.

Davidson (2) Ab R H O A E
MOCK fl: 3 0 0 0 0 0
SEN PET ER C 3 0 0 0 0 0
Mackorell, 3b 3 0 1 1 0 1
MOLEaN\ It 3 0 1 0 0 0
BUTS; Dicseucese 3 0 1 2 3 0
Bumgarner, 2b 3 0 0 1 3 0
OGSrS CO 3 0 0 4 0 0
Wingfield, ¢ 3 0 1 2 0 0
Onis p 3 0 0 2 3 0
Totals 27 2 4 12 9 1

(Continued on page 6)

Davidson Man Triumphs In State Golf Tourney

Bill Snow, of Davidson, and his partner, Jack Toomer, formerly of Jacksonville, Fla., recently won the pro-amateur event of the Carolinas Open Championship tournament held at the High Point Country Club on Wednesday, April 25. The play in this event was by medal score. A professional and an amateur were paired together and only their best ball counted. Snow and his professional partner, Toomer, turned in a total of 66 on the first round, six below par on the par seventy-two course. Later in the afternoon Gene Mills and his amateur partner, Rodney Warner, both of Raleigh, turned in a 66 to tie for first place. The tournament committee ordered a playoff to decide the winner of the amateur prize and the title. According to custom, the professionals split the prize money for first and second place, regardless of the outcome of the playoff. Snow won the first hole of the playoff with a par four when Mills missed a putt, winning the match for himself and Toomer.

Buff Shoe Shop
Modern Shoe Rebuilder
Davidson, N. C.

Four Out Of Five College Men Come To Johnson’s Barber Shop

Records Fall

Not only has the Wildcat track team made an enviable record for itself as a whole so far this year, but several of the college records have been broken. Davidson’s stellar miler, Earle Frazier, has lowered the mile mark for the third time, bringing it from the time of 4:38 to 4:30. Frazier seems to run a better mile every time he competes, if his times so far this year mean anything. Likewise, John Lee, ace pole vaulter, seems to be getting consistently better, having twice raised the height of the college pole vault record. His latest mark is 11 feet, 10 inches, four inches above the old mark. These two second-year men indeed show unusual promise in their particular events.

Davidson Golf Team Loses Five Matches

Wildcats Trail in Inter-Scholastic Tournament

The Davidson golf team, in its invasion of the Duke, Carolina, and State lairs last weekend, lost to all three teams and came out on the tail end of the State Interscholastic Tournament in Raleigh Saturday. On last Wednesday, April 25, the Carolina team shot consistent golf to down the Davidsonians, 16-2, on the Hope Valley course near Durham. On the next day the Wildcats bowed to the Duke Blue Devils on the same course, 14-4. The N. C. State interscholastic champions overcame the Davidson linkmen on Friday by a score of 16½ to 1½ over the Carolina Club course in Raleigh. Fred Newnham, Jr., of State, had the best card, turning in a 74, two over par.

Entering the North Carolina Interscholastic tournament at Raleigh on Saturday against the teams which had just defeated them, the Wildcats were again defeated, taking fourth place. Wake Forest withdrew from the team competition at the end of the 18-hole morning round. N. C. State won the tourney with a sum total of 632 strokes for the 36-hole match play. The Carolina Tar Heels ran a close second, however, with 633; Duke came in third with 649, and Davidson took a 705 for fourth place. High winds and fast greens bothered the collegians in both the morning and afternoon matches. Fred Newnham of State and Cliff Perry, Duke ace, tied for individual honors with 152’s for the 36 holes, Newnham netting 77-75 and Perry 79-73 for the totals.

In a return engagement with the Tar Heels at the Carolina course in Charlotte Monday afternoon, the Wildcats again lost.15-3. Sadler, Carolina's number two man, shot a record low of 73 to win the individual scoring honors. Captain Bill Bowman was the only Davidson man to win his match, shooting an 80 to defeat Harris, Carolina's number one, by a 2 to 1 score.

Freshman Tennis Team Loses Three Matches

The yearling tennis team suffered three defeats in as many starts during the past week, losing to Darlington School, Furman Freshmen, and the first-year men from Erskine. Tuesday, April 23, saw the 'Kittens go down before the Darlington School netmen, who were led by America’s fourth-ranking junior, Ramsay Potts. The score of this match was 4-3, the prep school boys winning after the number one doubles teams engaged in an extra match to break the 3-3 tie. Later in the week, the Furman and Erskine frosh netmen downed the Centennials 4-3 and 5-2, respectively.

A freshman at Brown University recently hoaxed the whole university with his fake performances of mesmerism and hypnosis.

Davidson Is Licked Twice Straight In Tennis Encounters

Duke and Carolina Defeat Wildcats in Two Hard-Fought Matches

HALVERSTADT LOSES

Duke Match is Repetition of the State Tournament

Davidson's varsity tennis team suffered two defeats in two feature matches here last week. Thursday afternoon, Barney Welch, Duke’s ace player, led his team to a well-earned 7-2 victory over the Wildcats. Welch, who recently was defeated by Jimmy Halverstadt in the finals of the state tournament, came back strong in his match with Halverstadt Thursday and turned back the Davidson star in straight sets. Another tournament finals match was re-enacted on the Davidson courts when Welch and Higgins paired to defeat Halverstadt and Lafferty, the Wildcat number one doubles team, thus repeating their victory in the tournament two weeks ago. Lafferty in the singles matches and Thompson and Lewis in the doubles accounted for Davidson’s two points. The matches were hard-fought throughout and the outcome was uncertain to the end. Five of the nine matches went to the limit of three sets. The summary:

Singles—Welch (Duke) defeated Halverstadt, 6-1, 6-1. Higgins (Duke) defeated Thompson, 6-2, 6-2. Lafferty (Davidson) defeated Kenyon, 6-4, 8-6. Martin (Duke) defeated Barnett, 6-8, 6-0, 6-0. Morefield (Duke) defeated Lewis, 3-6, 6-4, 6-0. McNeill (Duke) defeated Scott, 4-6, 6-2, 6-4.

Doubles—Welch and Higgins (Duke) defeated Halverstadt and Lafferty, 6-3, 6-3. Thompson and Lewis (Davidson) defeated Kenyon and Martin, 8-10, 7-5, 7-5. McNeill and Morefield (Duke) defeated Scott and Barnett, 6-3, 3-6, 6-3.

Davidson took its second reverse last week at the hands of the North Carolina tennis team by a score of 6 to 3. The match was played here on Saturday and it was witnessed by a large crowd of spectators. This was the second time this season that Davidson has gone down before the strong Tar Heel team and the third defeat which they have met on the courts this year. They had high hopes of reversing North Carolina in this return match. All the individual matches were closely contested and the Wildcats fought to the last. Captain Jimmy Halverstadt was easily the victor over Rickey Willis, Carolina ace, in straight sets, 6-3, 6-4, in the number one singles match of the day. Halverstadt was paired with Lafferty to defeat Willis and Harris.

(Continued on page 6)

Junior Class Captures Campus Baseball Title

The Junior baseball team won the recent intramural baseball tournament, winning all three of their games and losing none. The Sophomores were second, winning two games and losing one; the Seniors took third place, winning one and losing two, while the Freshmen finished last with no wins and three losses. Sam Bernardo was the captain of the Junior team. In the last game of the tournament, Monday afternoon, the Sophomores downed the yearlings, 8-0. Max Williams, who was on the mound for the Sophomores, pitched a one-hit game. The only hit he allowed was a single by Bud Moore in the ninth. Nate Wauda and Bill Pritchard hurled for the first-year men. A summary of the tournament follows: Seniors defeated Freshmen, 63-13; Juniors defeated the Sophomores, 19-15; Juniors defeated Freshmen, 11-6; Juniors defeated Seniors, 19-9; Sophomores defeated Seniors, 6-4, and Sophomores defeated Freshmen, 8-0.

“DRUGS” “SUNDRIES”

A Complete Drug Store

“Make Our Store Your Store”

Reliable Prescription Druggists

WHITE DRUG COMPANY

“SODA” “PRESCRIPTIONS”

Athletic Day

Professor Byrd, director of athletics at the University of Maryland, will deliver the principal address at the annual Athletic Day program to be held during the chapel hour next Tuesday morning. At this time the gymnastic, physical improvement, and basketball trophies will be awarded, and also a presentation of certificates to all lettermen in varsity sports will be made. A gold football will be presented to an alumnus or a friend of the college who in the eyes of the athletic department has been a valuable supporter of football and other sports at Davidson. The speaker comes as one of the best-qualified authorities on athletics in the country.

Centennial Baseball Team Downs Newton

Gastonia Defeats Frosh 16-9 on Richardson Field

The Davidson Centennial baseball team broke even last week, taking one contest from Newton High and dropping another to Gastonia. Wednesday, April 25, the 'Kittens met Newton High School here. “Lefty” Porter let the visitors down with eight hits as the ’Kittens won 5 to 4, avenging an earlier defeat at Newton. Quick and Arrowood, with three hits each, led the attack on three Newton hurlers. The visitors rallied after two men were out in the ninth, but were able to push across only two runs. Score by innings: Newton 100 000 012—4 8 1 Davidson 101 010 02x—5 11 5 Reinhardt, Self, Yount, and Harvell. Porter and Dickson.

Thursday, April 26, Gastonia took advantage of nine Davidson misplays and made the same number of hits go for 16 runs to defeat the yearlings 16 to 9. Three Wildcat hurlers failed to stop the scoring sprees of the visitors. Homers were hit by Shemwell and Armfield. Score by innings: Gastonia 022 013 404—16 9 6 Davidson 111 201 300—9 14 9 Withers and Bunnemer. Gracey, Somerville, Lanier and Dickson. The Wildkittens are now away on the annual state trip. Tuesday they played the Wake Forest freshmen, today they meet Louisburg College, and tomorrow they will engage the Duke freshman nine. On Saturday they will invade the Belmont Abbey nine.

More than 6,000 University of Texas students attend church regularly or occasionally while at the university.

Wildcat Trackmen Administer Defeat To Wofford Team

Local Cindermen Capture Twelve First Places Out of Fourteen Events

P. C. DEFEATS FROSH

Evans and McPhail Tie for High Score Honors

Davidson's track team crushed Wofford College, 107 to 19, on Richardson Field last Saturday afternoon. The Wildcats took twelve first places out of fourteen events and tied for another in the high jump. In four events the Davidson tracksters made a clean sweep while in seven others they took the first two places. It was in the hundred-yard dash, mile run, two-mile run, and shot put that the Terriers failed to score. The freshman cindermen lost to the first-year men of the Presbyterian College of South Carolina 61 2-3 to 55 1-3 on the same afternoon. Earle Frazier, Davidson’s crack distance runner, again broke his own Davidson record in the mile. He ran the event in four minutes, 30.1 seconds, which was 6.7 seconds better than his previous record. John Lee also raised his own record in the pole vault from 11 feet, 8 and 3-4 inches to 11 feet, 10 inches. The Wildcats were without the services of Captain Miller Cochran, who was competing in the Penn relays. Cochran showed up well in this meet by taking a third place in the discus throw. Honors in the meet were fairly evenly divided among the Davidson team. High point men were Ras Evans and Fred McPhail, who took two firsts each to tie with ten points. Anderson and Ward were outstanding among the Terriers. Jacobs, Presbyterian freshman, led his team with 18 points by taking first places in the shot, pole vault, and high jump and second in the low hurdles. Dickson of Davidson took first in the hundred-yard dash and in the high hurdles, and a second in the high jump, to lead the Wildkittens with 11 points. Presbyterian freshmen won nine of the thirteen events. The varsity summary:

100-yard dash—Evans (D); Faison (D); Byerly (D). Time: 9.9 seconds. Mile run—Frazier (D); Morrow (D); Bell (D). Time: 4 minutes, 30.1 seconds. 220-yard dash—Evans (D); Byerly (D); Hawes (W). Time: 23.4 seconds. High hurdles—McPhail (D); Pratt (D); Anderson (W). Time: 15.3 seconds. 440-yard run—Ward (W); Johnson (D); Glasgow (D). Time: 53.7 seconds. Two-mile run—Gullette (D); Glass (D); Montgomery (D). Time: 10 minutes, 31.5 seconds. Shot.

(Continued on page 6)

Union Theological Seminary

RICHMOND, VIRGINIA

Distinguished for 121 years in the whole field of Theological Education, particularly in the making of Preachers.

Davidson Theatre

WEDNESDAY, MAY 2

“MELODY IN SPRING”

LANNY ROSS—CHAS. RUGGLES—MARY BOLAND

THURSDAY, MAY 3

“THE TRUMPET BLOWS”

GEORGE RAFT—FRANCES DRAKE—ADOLPHE MENJOU

FRIDAY, MAY 4

“THE UPPER WORLD”

WARREN WILLIAM—MARY ASTOR—GINGER ROGERS

SATURDAY, MAY 5

“MURDER IN TRINIDAD”

HEATHER ANGEL—NIGEL BRUCE—VICTOR JORY

MONDAY, MAY 7

“VIVA VILLA”

WALLACE BEERY