THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 12, 1934

Davidson College Half-Hour Introduces Novel Ensemble
Saxophone Sextet, Orchestra, And Glee Club Present Radio Program

SKIP BROWN ANNOUNCES

“Good evening... Ladies and gentlemen. You are listening to the popular melody of ‘O Davidson’ as it introduces the regular Davidson College half-hour brought to you through the remote control facilities of Station WBT, and originating in the auditorium of the Chambers Building on the college campus at Davidson, N. C.” With these words Skip Brown, Davidson’s radio announcer extraordinary, introduced last Friday night’s presentation by the Salon Orchestra, the Glee Club, and a novel instrumentation unit in the shape of a saxophone ensemble.

“The initial selection” was “a rendition of the famous ‘Sleeping Beauty Waltzes’ by Tchaikovsky... This number is ideally suited for the salon orchestra instrumentation made up of three first violins, two second violins, one viola, one cello, one string ‘bass’, a flute, two clarinets, a bassoon, two trumpets, two French horns, a trombone, and a tympani.” Whereupon, with Prof. Pfohl handling the baton, the aforementioned organization soothed thousands of ears with a very smooth musical accomplishment.

“The Davidson College Glee Club in a Chorale number ‘Break forth O Beautious Heavenly Light’, by Bach. The season of Christmas could be no more appropriately ushered in than by this classical chorale from Bach's Christmas Oratorio.” In their most polished manner Davidson’s men o’ vocal might responded to Prof. Pfohl’s direction throughout this enchanting selection. Following this by singing “Lo, how a rose e’r blooming”, by Praetorius, an early writer, the Glee Club completed their activity for that part of the program.

There followed an announcement concerning organist Kennedy’s Tuesday evening concert in the auditorium, after which we came to “the feature of this evening’s program. In all of Sousa’s concerts, the outstanding novelty was always a saxophone band. This instrument... has classical possibilities, as will be intimated by the Davidson College saxophone ensemble, in their offering of ‘El Capitan’, by John Philip Sousa.” With Buddy Robinson, alto saxophone, standing before them, the ensemble, composed of Chrisman, Sanford, Rolt, Martin, and Thompson, in addition to Robinson, presented the number announced and showed in a striking manner the wisdom showed by John Sousa in the prominence he gave to his saxophone section.

After deftly avoiding collision with string bass and music stand, the college quartet, composed of Morris, first tenor, from Winston-Salem; McClannahan, second tenor, from Pittsburgh, Pa.; Tucker, baritone, from High Point; and Morgan, from Miami, Fla. arrived before the “mike”. From their well-trained throats came forth the humorous and ever-pleasing strains of “Shortenin’ Bread,” a “special favorite with college audiences.”

After that came the Glee Club's interpretation of “The Old Road”, by John Prindle Scott, followed by another Saxophone number, again a Sousa composition, “The Stars and Stripes Forever.” Next the Glee Club sang a piece which they have familiarized to all Davidson students, “Ye Watchers and Ye Holy Ones”, “a German melody of the 17th century and an early example of contrapuntal vocalization.”

Announcement was then made of the fact that the annual candle light Christmas service of the Y. M. C. A. and the musical organizations of the college would broadcast from the auditorium at seven-thirty o’clock on Sunday night, Dec. 16th. Mention of the popularity of this program, witnessed last year by 1200 persons, was made.

After a joint rendition by the Glee Club and the Salon Orchestra of the “Gloria” from Mozart’s “Twelfth Mass”, these two organizations united in the signature, “O Davidson”, as announcer Brown, with a plea that letters of constructive criticism of the college programs be sent to Prof. Pfohl, bade his unseen audience “a very pleasant goodnight” until another Friday evening rolls around.

Our Service And Workmanship Speaks For Itself.
NORTON’S BARBER SHOP

The Davidson Hi-Y sent five delegates this past weekend to the Hi-Y Conference held in Charlotte. The delegates were Sam Thompson, Bob Wood, John Withers, Richard McClain, and William Withers.

Prof. Ernest Beaty was the guest speaker at the opening meeting of the Book Lovers Club at the home of Dr. and Mrs. W. R. Grey. The assisting hostesses were Miss Lizzie Young and Miss Julia Johnston. Out-of-town guests were Mrs. Allison and Mrs. Fetzer of Concord.

Mrs. C. H. Hamilton has returned from a visit with her son and daughter, Prof. and Mrs. Elford Morgan of Converse College.

The Thelemite Club met Friday afternoon with Mrs. J. M. MacConnell. Mrs. W. W. Wood was in charge of the program.

Mrs. W. P. Cumming was the guest speaker at the meeting of the Book Club of Huntersville Thursday afternoon.

The Twentieth Century Club of Davidson met Friday afternoon at the home of Mrs. Oscar Thies. Mrs. Harry Caldwell was in charge of the program.

Vowles Will Speak At Eta Sigma Phi Meeting

Doctor Vowles will give a lecture at the meeting of Eta Sigma Phi, the classical fraternity, at its next meeting. The meeting is to be December the seventeenth in one of the rooms in Chambers. All the members of Eta Sigma Phi are looking forward to this date with great enthusiasm for Dr. Vowles has always shown a great deal of interest in this group and the occasions on which he addresses the fraternity are outstanding dates in the history of the order. At the meeting on the seventeenth Dr. Vowles will lecture on a subject of his own choice.

DAVIDSON HAS FIRST SNOW

The first snowfall of the year came last Monday morning, December 10th. After a drop in temperature Sunday night, Davidson looked out on a cold cloudy sky Monday morning. Snow began to fall about 10:30, and steadily fell faster, to stop at about four o’clock. Due to the actual dearth of flakes and to the comparative warmth of the ground, the snow stayed but a few hours.

Co-Captains To Lead ’35 Eleven
(Continued from Page 1)

number of votes to hold the Varsity manager’s position, the next highest the Equipment manager, and so on. It is the important duty of the manager to contact all visiting teams and act as student head in negotiations with them, and to take charge of all needs of the Varsity and Freshman teams. The managers for the coming season, by preceding dope from a well-managed and successful season this year, will have a busy time in the coming season. If the petition of the Davidson officials for a Southern Conference berth is granted, they will have an even busier season.

Mrs. Lewis Schenck has returned from a visit with her parents, Dr. and Mrs. Charles Myers of Greensboro.

Not even public opinion could run this girl out of town!
LUPINO
RICARDO CORTEZ
ARLEN
MARJORIE RAMBEAU

FRI.-SAT.
Reb Russell In
“FIGHTING THROUGH”

Jimmy Durante
“STRICTLY DYNAMITE”

Francis Lederer Is Coming!
“STATE: CHARLOTTE, N. C.

NEW CAMERA USED AT GAME
Latest Pictures Of DeaconContest Shown To Aid

In order to help the football players profit by their actual mistakes, the Athletic Association and the Alumni Association combined to buy a motion camera for the college. The latest subject to be “shot” was the Davidson-Wake Forest game on Thanksgiving Day. During the course of the game, Bill Lyons took about five hundred feet of film pictures, and, as they turned out exceptionally well, these pictures present a very revealing account of many of the more exciting plays of the game. The pictures were shown to the Quadrangulars Club on Thursday night, and, the coaches having seen them already, they will be shown to the football team in the near future. They will be shown to the alumni in the spring.

Brown Speaks At Pledge Gathering

A feed was given by the Kappa Alpha Fraternity for the pledges of the other fraternities in order that they might get acquainted easier, on Wednesday night, December 5. An interesting talk was given by Professor C. K. Brown on the fraternities. One of his various statements was: “Although you are lucky in being pledged to a fraternity, there are many good men who failed to become a fraternity man for different reasons; and for this reason, you shouldn't think that you are the salt of the earth.” He also explained the purpose of the Phi Beta Kappa and how the men were chosen, and mentioned a few of the honorary fraternities. After his talk, the refreshments were served and a general discussion was held.

The Sorosis Club held its regular meeting Friday night at the home of Mrs. J. J. Withers. Mrs. N. T. Smith is president of the club.

Among the GREEKS

Beta Theta Pi: Charles Malone joined the pledge group of the Phi Alpha Chapter last Friday night. Many of the brothers were off the campus over the weekend, having gone to Charlotte, Greensboro, and various other places. An appetizing feed was enjoyed by the majority of the brothers last Sunday night.

Pi Kappa Alpha: Invitations have been issued to girls from Charlotte, Concord, Salisbury, and surrounding towns to be present at a party planned by the Beta Chapter on Tuesday, the eighteenth of December.

Kappa Sigma: At a meeting of the Delta Chapter last Thursday night, Bob Sours, a member of the Junior Class, was initiated into the fraternity.

Pi Kappa Phi: A buffet supper was given by Mrs. J. R. Withers and Mrs. Rhett last Sunday night at seven o'clock for the pledges and officers of the Epsilon Chapter. A Founder's Day program was held last Monday night at eight-thirty o'clock. Professors Beaty and Vowles gave talks to the brothers. District President R. D. Price was also present and gave a talk. The local chapter was founded on December 10, 1912. The pledge group is planning to give a Christmas party for the brothers of the fraternity Tuesday, December 18. A banquet is also going to be given between the two Saturday dances at Efird’s at 6:45 P.M., in Charlotte.

Phi Gamma Delta: A few of the brothers went to Randolph-Macon and other places over the last weekend. The Delta Kappa Chapter enjoyed having as a guest over the weekend the father of H. H. Thompson. Last Sunday night a very enjoyable “feed” was attended by the majority of the brothers. The pledge group is going to give a short play to the chapter Saturday, December 15, between the two of the Sophomore dances. On Saturday, a banquet will be given at the S. & W. in Charlotte at 6:30 P.M. Many alumni are expected to be present.

Phi Delta Theta: A. J. Potter was initiated into the Gamma Chapter November 27, 1934. Several of the brothers went on a hunting trip through the Pisgah National Park over the last weekend. Most of the chapter was present at a “feed” and “singing” last Sunday night. A banquet is also being planned after the Tea Dance Saturday in Charlotte.

Prof. and Mrs. J. C. Pfohl spent the weekend with relatives in Winston-Salem. The Tuesday Club held its annual Christmas party last night at the home of Miss Louise Lingle.

Christmas Holidays To Begin Next Wednesday

At twelve-thirty, Wednesday, December nineteenth, nineteen thirty-four, Davidson students will be boarding all available means of transportation to take them home for the Christmas holidays. The student body will break up the single group here, and spread over the country to most of the twenty-seven states represented at this college. Since September the thirteenth, the largest number of students to be enrolled on the Davidson registrar’s list have been plying the intellectual side of life, and now they will return home for an intermission of fourteen days. During these fourteen days, the reunion with parents, relatives, friends, and sweethearts will erase from fatigued minds the ever-haunting thoughts of reviews, daily quizzes, and the inevitable tiresomeness which results from fulfilling a student’s routine. At eight-thirty on January third, nineteen thirty-five, classes will be resumed and students who have been scattered over the country will draw together again in the single group which makes up the Davidson Student Body.

STUDENT STORE

Balfour JEWELRY — Davidson PENNANTS Perfect XMAS GIFTS

In the manufacture of Granger Rough Cut Pipe Tobacco, the Wellman Process is used. The Wellman Process is different from any other process or method and we believe it gives more enjoyment to pipe smokers. It gives the tobacco an extra flavor and aroma. It makes the tobacco act right in a pipe—burn slower and smoke cooler. It makes the tobacco milder. It leaves a clean dry ash—no soggy residue or heel in the pipe bowl.

LIGGETT & MYERS TOBACCO Co.