THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 24, 1934

WILDCAT ELEVEN TO MEET CITADEL IN CHARLESTON

In the Field of Sports

FINALS IN FALL TENNIS TOURNAMENT NOW BEING PLAYED

FIGHTING CATS BOW TO POWERFUL BLUE DEVILS

There may have been better football games played in this country since the game began, but I have never seen one that could equal the duel the Wildcats held with Duke’s Blue Devils Saturday. That game had everything that one could ask for in a perfect game. There were plays of all sorts, and some of the prettiest execution that has ever been exhibited on Richardson Field.

“Jumping Joe” Wingfield came into his own Saturday, and thrilled the fans on several occasions by bouncing out of one hefty Wade-man’s arms after the other. He did a particularly nice job of punt returning. Those big Devil linesmen simply couldn’t stop him before he had lugged the leather at least a few yards. This gentleman is what one would commonly call a “sweet running back.” Of course, Johnny Mackorell and Jim Morgan played their usual excellent jam-up game, with Charlie Forte and Henry Cathey sharing honors for their play in the forward wall, and we could go ahead and mention every man on the team, both backs and linemen, because they were all in there doing their stuff Saturday.

The great difference that I saw between Davidson and Duke on the field from the standpoint of football playing was the more experienced way in which the Devils handled their rough play. They have practiced this type of play considerably more than the ’Cats and consequently the dirty part used by them was a little better camouflaged, which made it less costly.

The Wildcats were victims of two costly breaks, both of which resulted in Duke touchdowns before the Newton-McEver gridsters could recuperate. The first came when Duke began her first sustained drive, and Davidson suffered a penalty for unnecessary roughness, which put the Durham club within easy scoring distance. The other was an intercepted pass, which the fast-stepping Johnston, Duke halfback, carried to the Davidson 12-yard line. These, of course, are a part of the game, but had they not taken place in this particular contest it would have been a very different story for the assistant mentors of the Blue Devils to tell their famous football papa, Mr. Wallace Wade, when the crew gets together again.

I don’t deny that Duke was better than Davidson Saturday, but I do insist that the final score of the game that took place on Richardson Field that afternoon is no true indication of the difference in the way the two teams showed up in the contest. There certainly was not more than a one-touchdown leeway for the Dukes.

Charleston will be the scene of the next Wildcat engagement, and if the sand flies don’t eat any of the Felines before game time I think the Wildcats will begin with the Citadel a winning streak that can only be stopped by the end of the season. That includes some pretty tough foes, but the Newtonites are as tough as anything they have to play from now on. I like this chance-taking type of football the present Davidson team is playing.

WILDCATS FACE CADET ELEVEN AT CHARLESTON

Both Teams Expected To Use Passing Attack In Interstate Battle

WILDCATS LEAVE FRIDAY

Will Be Thirteenth Meeting Of Davidson And “The Citadel”

In their last game away from their home field, the Davidson Wildcats will journey to Charleston this weekend to encounter Coach Tatum Gessette’s Citadel Bulldogs. It will be the fourteenth gridiron meeting of the two schools, the series having begun in 1909 when the teams fought to a scoreless tie. However, in later years, the Presbyterians have accumulated a decided edge on the Cadets.

Both teams were decisively defeated by strong foes during the past week. The South Carolina Gamecocks trounced Citadel 20-6 last Thursday at the Orangeburg fair, and Davidson bowed before the mighty Duke Blue Devils, 20-0. However, even in defeat both teams showed strong offensive power, and their coming contest should be quite spirited.

Neither eleven has a very clean record so far. The Wildcats have lost to N. C. State, Army, and Duke, while the Bulldogs have been defeated by Oglethorpe, George Washington University, and South Carolina.

Coaches Newton and McEver are continuing to work steadily on the passing attack which was so successful against Duke. They hope to bring to even higher perfection the aerial combination of Captain Mackorell, Wingfield, and Hutchens, teamed up with Morgan and Windham at end.

Coach Tatum Gessette will probably count largely on Ed Hall and Levi for punting duty, while in the running backfield he will have such backs as Billy Workman, Ferguson, Andy Hall, and Faulkner. Besides these men Captain Billy Symmes will probably be in uniform Saturday in spite of an early season foot injury. Symmes is recognized as one of the best pivot men in the Palmetto state.

Both teams will send excellent kickers on the field Saturday in Mackorell and Pittman for the Wildcats, and Levi and Hall for the Bulldogs. Ed Hall showed up well in the George Washington game two weeks ago, and Paul Pittman has an average for the season of about forty-five yards per punt.

The record of the Davidson-Citadel football series since 1909 is as follows:

1909 Citadel 0 Davidson 0
1910 Citadel 6 Davidson 27
1914 Citadel 0 Davidson 16
1916 Citadel 7 Davidson 7
1920 Citadel 13 Davidson 27
1925 Citadel 0 Davidson 7
1926 Citadel 0 Davidson 5
1927 Citadel 25 Davidson 12
1929 Citadel 6 Davidson 7
1930 Citadel 0 Davidson 6
1931 Citadel 7 Davidson 14
1932 Citadel 7 Davidson 6
1933 Citadel 6 Davidson 24

Total Citadel 77 Davidson 157

Probable Davidson lineups for the game Saturday will be:

Position Citadel
Morgan LE McCree
Siewers LT Jenkins
R. Johnston LG Ward
Potter C Symmes
H. Cathey RG Croft
Windham RT Levi
Mackorell RE Workman
Wingfield QB Baker
Hutchens HB Faulkner
Yarborough FB Ferguson

See The New WOOL TIES WITH FRINGED ENDS 65c

New Fall Suits and Overcoats Just Arrived

J O JONES INC 208 S. TRYON ST.

Indians Call-Off Game With Cats; Date Open

The Davidson-William and Mary football game originally scheduled to be played here on Saturday, November 10, has been definitely cancelled. The complications in the schedule of the Virginia team came first when there was a conflict on that date with V. M. I. due to an error in the arrangement of the schedule. After both William and Mary and V. M. I. had found it impossible to change the dates of any of their games, the Wildcats agreed to play on Thursday, November 1, giving W & M a total of three games in the same week. This condition brought about the objections of the parents of the players and compelled them to forfeit the game.

Several attempts have been made to fill the date left open by this conflict, but nothing definite has been determined at this time. There is a possibility that the date will remain open, and if this is the case, persons who hold season passes to all Davidson games on the campus will be returned the proportionate equivalent in cash money, or, if they wish, an additional ticket to the V. M. I. game on November 17.

TENNIS TOURNEY NEARING FINALS

Barnett, Seeded Number One Man Defeated By Walker in Major Upset

John Walker scored the first major upset in the Varsity Tennis competition this past week when he downed Martin Barnett, seeded number one, in the second round by taking a three-set match 6-1, 2-6, 6-0. Other seeded players have come through with the exception of Geo. Hornbeck who was forced to default to Bob Lindsey in the first round. Dudley Elvery and Tom Phifer, who have entered the semi-finals in the upper and lower bracket respectively, are seeded third and fourth. In the upper bracket John Walker, conqueror of Martin Barnett, and Jake Morrow will meet to decide who will play Elvery for the championship. Tom Phifer will meet the winner of the Carl Carlson-Carlyle Lewis match to settle the supremacy in the lower bracket. The victors in the upper and lower bracket will then clash for the championship of the Varsity tournament.

Dudley Elvery entered the semi-finals as he defeated Tom Marchant 6-1, 6-2 in the opening round, then he handed Paul Kennedy a 6-3, 6-1 trimming, and entered the semi-finals with his 6-1, 6-3 triumph over Wade Boggs. Tom Phifer has also advanced through three competitors. First fell Archie McFayden by 6-2, 6-3 scores, Bob Coit was blanked in twelve straight games 6-0, 6-0, and Ed Garrett, Varsity tennis manager, lost 6-1, 6-4.

Continued on Page 6, Col. 1

Felix Predicts

Felix stepped out in the clear this past week and scored 17 wins out of 19 predictions to pull up the old batting average for a “fare you well.” Two games proved the only mar to the forecast sheet, with Maryland upsetting V. P. I. 19 to 7, and V. M. I. being taken in tow 7 to 0 by Richmond. Here are this week's predictions:

DAVIDSON vs Citadel, DUKE vsTennessee, NORTH CAROLINA vs N. C. State, GEO. WASHINGTON vs Wake Forest, CLEMSON vs South Carolina, PRESBYTERIAN vs Catawba, FLORIDA vs Maryland, VIRGINIA vs V. M. I., W. & L. vs V. P. I., ALABAMA vs Georgia, KENTUCKY vs Auburn, TULANE vs Georgia Tech, VANDERBILT vs L. S. U., SEWANEE vs Mississippi, MISS. A. & M. vs Miss. College, ERSKINE vs Lenoir Rhyne, FURMAN vs Centre. (Editor’s note: These predictions are made each week by Harry Kuykendal, Continued on Page 6, Col. 5)

Special! $22.50 per month
FOUNTAIN PENS
$1.50 Value... NOW $1.00
AMERICAN CAFE
WHITE DRUG STORE

DAVIDSON FROSH ARE DOWNED BY V. P. I. CADETS
Hogan, Nichelson, Dennis, Lafferty And Overall Outstanding For Kittens
NEW AMPLIFIER USED
Cregger, Henry, and Doxey Star For Gobblers

In their first intercollegiate clash of the season last Friday, October 19th, the Davidson Wildkittens bowed to the V. P. I. yearlings by a score of 12-2. Viewed by a large crowd, the scrapping Kittens met their defeat at the hands of a heavy and powerful plebe eleven. Playing in their own territory most of the time they were powerless against an onslaught which netted two touchdowns for the visitors. All scoring was done in the first and third quarters; V. P. I. making one touchdown in each and Davidson getting a safety in the first. Hogan, captain, Nichelson, Dennis, Lafferty and Overall were outstanding for Davidson while Cregger, Henry, and Doxey were the main threats for the cadets. Touchdowns were made by Doxey and Cregger. Cregger also fell on the ball behind his own goal to turn a possible touchdown into a safety, and played spectacular football throughout the game, being the only V. P. I. man to run with the ball in the third quarter.

V. P. I. won the toss up and chose to receive, defending the south goal. Hogan kicked for the Wildkittens. After a 16 yard runback by Cregger, the Cadets were unable to gain and were forced to kick, Doxey’s punt was fumbled by Lafferty and recovered by a V. P. I. man on the Davidson 39 yard line to start the visitors on their first scoring spree early in the game. A slight gain through the line was followed by a pass from Cregger to Henry, who was stopped on the 17 yard line. After a penalty and an incompleted pass, the Plebes again slashed out toward the goal line, and easily made their first counter with a pass from Henry to Doxey.

The only two scoring threats of the Kittens also came in the first quarter. The kickoff after the visitors' touchdown went to Hogan who advanced it from his own 30 to V. P. I.’s 36 yard line. A pass from Dennis to Lafferty placed the ball on the 14 yard mark. Hogan slashed through left guard for 10 yards and a first down. On the next play, Lafferty carried the ball around left end to the 2 yard stripe. The next two plays lost ground for the Kittens as the Tech eleven tightened its defense. The last down featured a pass from Dennis to Hogan who was stopped on the one yard line, and Davidson lost the ball on downs. Again in the same quarter, Lafferty of Davidson made what was probably the most spectacular run of the day when he ran back a punt 45 yards to the Cadet’s 5 yard line. The following downs found the Kittens without that final punch to put the ball over and they lost the ball on downs to the visitors. Following this, in the last minute of the eventful first quarter, an attempted punt by Doxey was blocked by Davidson.

Continued on Page 6, Col. 1

GOOD Food
GOOD Service
GOOD Rates
Good Reasons For Eating at the LITTLE PEP

Large Crowd Sees Wildcats Fight Gamely In 20-0 Loss
Davidson’s Deceptive Aerials Prove Baffling To Powerful Blue Devils
MACKORELL WILDCAT STAR
Parker, Cornelius, And Alexander Lead Duke Assault

Richardson field is well groomed today, for the 13th meeting between the Duke Blue Devils and Davidson’s fighting Wildcats. The weather is perfect, with a trace of coolness in the air, which is made to order for football. Chalk marks upon a field of green stand out, while a colorful crowd seeps into the already filled stadium. Both teams are now taking the field for the initial warm-up preparatory to the game. The brilliant red uniforms of the cats blend with the dark blue of the heavier Duke team. Captain Dunlap, Duke's mighty guard, advances to mid-field to meet Captain Mackorell, Davidson's ace of aces. Duke wins the toss and elects to receive. Alexander receives Mackorell’s kick-off, fumbles and then recovers. “Ace” Parker slashes through the Wildcat line for 4 yards. Parker then kicks to Mackorell, a long one, and Mackorell is downed. Wingfield loses three yards and then Mackorell kicks to Cornelius, who is nailed in his tracks by John Siewers. Alexander fumbles, recovers, and on the next play drives through for five yards. Yarborough downs Alexander for no gain, Parker punts to Mackorell who is promptly downed. Mackorell makes three and then kicks to Cornelius. Parker and Alexander make 24 yards together on the next three tries. Davidson receives 15 yd. penalty for roughing. Morgan, Cathey, Hand, and Hunter enter the game for Davidson. Ball is on Davidson’s 5-yard line. Cornelius is smeared for no gain, but on the next play skirts left end for a touchdown. Cornelius also gets the extra point. Score Duke 7; Davidson 0.

After the ensuing kick-off the Cats are coming back strong, with Hutchins returning the oval from his 17 to the 30. Mackorell quickly fires a bullet pass to Big Jim Morgan for ten yards. Jim swerves to the right and as two Blue Devil backs storm in for the kill, he laterals to the flying Wingfield. “Booty” races across midfield and is downed on Duke’s 40 for a net gain of 30 yards. Yarborough makes 6 through Duke’s line, Wingfield one, and two passes drop over the end zone, which ends Davidson's first threat. After an exchange of punts, Hutchins breaks off tackle for 17 yards, being tackled by Tarrall of Duke. Hutchins is injured on the play and leaves after playing a brilliant game of football. Play is resumed with Mackorell being thrown for a 13-yard loss by Captain Dunlap. End of first quarter. Score, Duke 7; Davidson 0.

After receiving a punt, Cornelius, Alexander, and Parker drive to Davidson’s 27 yard line. Ebie Dunlap is injured and leaves game. On next try, Alexander is stopped by Siewers for no gain. Yarborough and Wingfield together net 8 yards. Time out for Duke with Captain Dunlap injured. He is carried from the field, after playing a fine game. Cornelius drops Mackorell’s mile-high punt and it is recovered by D. Johnston. After a series of fumbles by both teams, Wingfield snake-hips several would-be tacklers before being brought down on the Cats 35 yard line. A pass from Burns to Mackorell is good for 8 yards. Alexander intercepts Davidson’s next flip, and after cutting to the right, races across the field until Morgan overhauls and downs him on the 12-yard stripe. Parker, after several tries by Cornelius, makes the second touchdown. Cornelius converts the extra point. Duke puts entire new team in. Morgan then snags a 19 yard pass from Mackorell, but is forced out of bounds. Johnston of Duke intercepts the next cat pass on his own 20 yard line as the half ends. Score, Duke 14; Davidson 0.

Johnson returns Mackorell’s punt 25 yards as the second semester opens. A penalty for roughness backs the Cats up to their 20. Again the red and black machine proves equal to the occasion, taking the ball on downs. A pass from Mackorell to Cathey, a tackle and ineligible to receive, gives the ball to Duke on Davidson's 20. A penalty is inflicted on Duke and on the next play Joe Lee intercepts a pass to throttle the Blue Devils threat. Morgan snags a pass from Pittman for 28 yards, and is finally downed after dragging three or four Dukes along for several yards. A pass from Mackorell to Morgan nets 12 yards. Mackorell and Pittman take the ball for 4 yards, and another pass to Jim is good for 5 yards. Again Mackorell heaves a pass to Morgan, who leaps up and pulls down the oval for an 11-yard gain to Duke's 17-yard line. Third quarter ends.

Ward and Parker enter the game again for Duke. Pittman goes to the sixteen-yard stripe, and another aerial shot, Yarborough to Burns, develops into 4 yards and places the red jerseys on Duke’s twelve-yard line. Duke offsides. Ball now on her 6-yard line. Pass intercepted back of goal and is placed on Duke's twenty-yard stripe. Parker knives through left tackle for the sweetest run of the day and is finally brought down by Mackorell after traveling 33 yards.

Continued on Page 6, Col. 5

TIES
New Shipment of the Latest Designs and Materials
RAY HARRISON’S