THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 7, 1934

The Davidsonian

FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

Member of Associated Collegiate Press
= 1933 (nation covensct) 1934 =

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

Printed by the STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: $2.00 the Collegiate year. Ten cents per copy.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879.

Articles for publication must be in the hands of Managing Editors by 4:00 o'clock p.m., Monday. Letters to the Editor are welcome, but all communications intended for publication must be signed.

Editor W. W. WIST
Business Manager G. L. GULLETTE
Managing Editor E. F. McPHAIL
Managing Editor B. L. ROSE
Managing Editor K. D. WEEKS
Managing Editor JACK HEULING
Alumni Editor C. E. NORVELL, JR.
Sports Editor RAWLING PRATT-THOMAS
Editorial Writer A. HUNT
Exchange Editor S. B. HALL
Feature Editor S. K. PHILLIPS
Feature Editor S. C. HARRIS
Editor C. S. HARRIS
Editor D. W. HARRIS
Editor L. W. HARRIS
Editor A. F. SCHENCK
Associate Editor W. M. THOMPSON
Associate Editor JACK WILLIAMS, JR.
Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
G. L. GREEN Assistant Business Manager
W. L. SPRUNT Assistant Business Manager
R. TAYLOR Assistant Business Manager
A. C. WADSWORTH Assistant Business Manager

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 1934

Laws are not made for the good.—Socrates.

SHOULD FRATERNITIES BE ABOLISHED?

To the perennial controversy as to whether fraternities are a boon or a blight to college life comes a bit of actual evidence. Last spring, and again this winter by a confirmatory vote, the women students at Swarthmore College agreed to abolish their secret societies, to which 80 percent of them belonged and which maintained houses on the campus. For a year and a half, while this decision was maturing, there has been a moratorium on the society activities. During that period, President Aydelotte testifies in his annual report, college has been conducted in a more democratic and delightful manner than has ever been the case before during his dozen years at Swarthmore.

“Emphasis is placed on events at which all undergraduates are welcome,” he says; “social affairs are more frequent and less formal. Collection Hall is constantly used for informal gatherings after dinner, for dances and games, for exhibitions and teas, organized by the undergraduates themselves. The result is a veritable transformation of the spirit of the college.” He contrasts these “free, democratic, unified social affairs” with “the depressing effect upon the morale of the undergraduates of fraternity domination of social life.”

The above article, which appears in a recent issue of the “New York Times,” presents the observations of an able and brilliant man, for Frank Aydelotte, president of Swarthmore College, is also American Secretary of the Rhodes Foundation which sponsors the Rhodes Scholarships. There is no doubt in our minds that a more democratic and more unified state of affairs will exist in a small college if fraternities were abolished; provided however that there are facilities to take care of the entire student body at social gatherings and in social activities. In a large college or university, however, it would be practically impossible to get a unified state of affairs, fraternities or no fraternities. Then, too, the advantages of fraternities are not limited to a single campus or to one’s college days. National social fraternities provide hospitality for affiliated representatives and visitors from other schools, which hospitality a non-fraternity man seldom receives because American colleges do not include it in their programs. Fraternities also provide a place to which an affiliated alumnus may come when he returns to the college for a visit. There are advantages and disadvantages of fraternities, and before a college should abolish them, the disadvantages should be in excess of the advantages.

RHODES SCHOLARSHIPS

“Several interesting facts appear in the list of newly-elected Rhodes Scholars on the following pages. Although Yale, Harvard and Princeton are well represented, and several small colleges were again successful, the state universities seem to have scored heavily this year. Several of the less populous states are well represented, to the great satisfaction of all concerned. Arizona, New Hampshire, Utah (with two men), and West Virginia were all successful this year. California, Illinois, Massachusetts, New York and Pennsylvania each secured but one Rhodes Scholar. Big fellows are indeed put in their places in these troubled times!” (Editorial in the American Oxonian, January, 1934, p. 4).

When the district plan of appointing Rhodes Scholars was submitted for the state plan, it was feared by many that the new arrangement would result in concentrating appointments in strong states and strong institutions. Actually the opposite has happened. At the first election according to the district plan four small colleges, including Davidson, were successful (Dec. 1929). The 1930 election was perhaps the banner year for “small” colleges, nine, with enrollments ranging from 325 to 857, being represented. This year the appointments were as follows:

Yale (4), Harvard (3) and Princeton (3) - 10
State Universities of Arizona, Georgia, Illinois, Michigan, Minnesota, Missouri, North Carolina, North Dakota, Oklahoma, Oregon, Pennsylvania, Virginia, West Virginia and State College of Washington, 1 each - 14
Others: Baylor University (Texas), Brigham Young U., Cornell U., Dartmouth, Pomona, Reed (Oregon), Tulane and Washington U. (St. Louis) - 8
Total - 32

Three of the state universities have under 2,000 students, two others less than 3,000, and two others a little over 3,000. Two of the private institutions have about 1,500 students, and Pomona and Reed have 752 and 409 respectively. Pomona of course had to compete against Leland Stanford and the University of California, both large and powerful institutions. All this would seem to indicate that the committees of selection are the fair and impartial bodies they ought to be, and that an outstanding candidate, whether he be from Harvard or little Reed College, is considered on his merits. This ought to be encouraging to Davidson men. To be sure we cannot expect to win every time, or perhaps more than once on the average in a college generation. The competition seems to grow keener every year—this year there were more candidates than ever before, and the quality of the candidates was certainly not poorer than in the past. If we continue to try every year, we shall win our due share. We have reason to feel pleased that several of our candidates made a very good showing this time before the North Carolina committee.

Personally the writer feels that the appointment of Robert Barnett of the University of North Carolina was a particularly happy one. He came to America on a scholarship awarded by the Rotary Club of Shanghai, open, apparently, to all white residents of that city. He is delivering part of the lectures in a certain class at the University, in addition to his graduate work. He hopes to do journalistic work in Shanghai after concluding his work at Oxford University. He has a vision and a world-outlook which apparently impressed the local and district committees of selection.
—G. R. Vowles.

REQUIREMENTS FOR A SUCCESSFUL INSTITUTION

Davidson College is certainly considered by the majority of people to be a successful institution. Davidson also has the reputation of being staid, dependable, stable. She is firm, yes, even resolute in her convictions. These are certainly commendable attributes. The Rock of Gibraltar is reliable, solid, and secure; it has successfully withstood the battles of the elements and of man. And yet this natural stronghold would be shattered by a natural upheaval, such as an earthquake, by reason of its own inflexibility.

We all realize that education has undergone phenomenal changes during the past 60 years. As a result of experimentation, startling developments have resulted and no college can stand still in the swiftly flowing current of change and transition. If it attempts to remain constant and immovable it will inevitably be destroyed by the revolutionary forces that play upon it.

Dr. Nicholas Murray Butler, president of Columbia University, recently said, “An institution must have the essentials of growth, adaptation, open-mindedness, and liberalism.” Davidson College undoubtedly possesses these characteristics, but we would like to suggest that she give full consideration to the two latter qualities. Dr. Butler also stated, “We had come to a point where the old, valuable, narrow program was no longer adequate. Immense masses of knowledge came in... Leading colleges finally reached solutions, with the result that today we are in a wholly different college situation and a period still marked by confusion.” Davidson has not yet reached solutions for many of her major problems, but if the powers that be give thoughtful attention to the preceding statements of Dr. Butler, we may rest assured that solutions will be forthcoming.
—R. P.-T.

College education has proved largely unsuccessful in its major endeavor of making man the master of his environment, in the opinion of Dr. LewisA. Wilson, assistant New York State Commissioner of Education.

NEWS DIGEST

BIRTHDAY PARTY
Last Tuesday night the entire nation staged the largest birthday party ever held, in honor of the fifty-second anniversary of the birth of President Roosevelt. Balls were held in thousands of cities and towns throughout the country, the proceeds going to the Warm Springs Foundation at Warm Springs, Georgia, where F. D. was cured of infantile paralysis. Thousands of congratulatory messages from all over the world were received at the executive mansion. It was the grandest and most novel declaration of love and confidence ever staged for a President. Congratulations, Mr. President, and many more happy birthdays.

NEW DOLLAR
The value of the dollar has again been changed. This time it has been reduced to fifty-nine cents and a fraction. The Senate voted 66 to 43 to devalue the dollar which had already been cut, although its significance means little to the average man. The Senate also voted 45 to 43 not to do anything about silver. The last vote, which was taken on the question of a silver basis, showed a majority of about fifteen. It looks like we are getting closer and closer to a silver standard.

NEW FRENCH CABINET
After two months of turmoil, Daladier, the strong-arm French minister, is attempting to form a clean-up cabinet which will be free from corruption and graft and end the Paris street rioting which resulted in the overthrow of the old cabinet. He is seeking a ministry of new blood and one supported by parties between the Socialists on the left and the Marin groups on the right. The leaders in the Nazi party are known to be in favor of Daladier and this should aid his efforts a great deal. Chautemps’ cabinet fell Saturday amid street demonstrations after the corruption of the Stavisky affair which resulted in the loss to French investors of forty million dollars.

GUNS OF HAVANA
Again the guns are booming in Havana and the populace which seemed so satisfied over the Mendieta government are now leading another strike which threatens to add Mendieta to the growing list of Cuba’s leaders in the last six months. The young government is at the crossroads of its career but the President is calm in the face of the strike, although he admits that it is serious. The workers are rallying around Rafael Giraud who is in hiding, as the police immediately ordered his arrest.

JAPANESE NAVY
Yoshizawa, former foreign minister of Japan, told his fellow members of the house of peers in Tokyo, that by 1937 the Japanese navy would outrank that of the United States. He also said that if the navy men of the two nations began to dictate terms in the coming naval conference that a break was inevitable and that intensified naval competition, even if war was averted, would be the ultimate aim of Japan. Foreign Minister Hirota agreed with the views expressed by his compatriot.

STRATOSPHERE DEATH
The last attempt into the stratosphere, made by three Russian balloonists, set a new record and ended in death for all three of the balloon’s occupants. The balloon reached a height of over sixty-seven thousand feet but it struck the ground so hard on the descent that all three men were killed by the contact. Their claim of reaching such a height was given by radio when they were still aloft and as all the scientific instruments used in the flight were demolished when the accident occurred, there is no way of proving their claim of a new record.

SLPA
Those Washington Senators who are interested in the St. Lawrence River Project will no doubt be surprised at the following extract from an able Canadian newspaper: “Canada is to obtain four million horsepower and the United States one million horsepower out of the whole St. Lawrence waterway development.” The Canadian minister to Washington is also congratulated by this paper in obtaining the majority of the advantages while bearing a good deal less in cost. Perhaps those men on the senate committee considering this project will now begin to pick up their ears and wonder if this statement is correct and if so why?

Gamma Sigma Epsilon Amused by Alderman
Several experiments in “Surface Tension Phenomena” were performed for members of Gamma Sigma Epsilon, national chemical fraternity, at its regular meeting Monday night, by Mat Alderman of the Junior class. Alderman amused his audience with startling exhibitions. A talk, explaining an oxidation and reduction chart, was given by Ed Hodge, and plans for building a case in which to place mineral exhibits were discussed. The chapter also decided to label journal extracts in the chemistry library.

Schurz Foundation to Bring Art Exhibit Here
A German art exhibit, sponsored by the German and Fine Arts departments of Davidson College, will be brought before Davidson students from March 21 to 28, under the auspices of the Carl Schurz Memorial Foundation of Philadelphia. The exhibition consists of a collection of 125 original etchings, woodcuts, and lithographs by modern German artists. Explanatory talks will be made by a representative of the foundation. No charge will be made to the public, it was announced.

E. L. POWELL CHOSEN FRESHMAN ADVISER
(Continued from page 1)
resulted in a large margin for Powell. In accepting his new duties, Powell announced that he would be glad to act as a counselor at any time for the class as a whole or for any individual member, should problems arise with the Court of Control, Student Council, or other disciplinary group. The matter of discarding freshman caps will also be taken up with the court by Powell in behalf of the class. The elections for officers of the Freshman class, which will be held some time in the early spring in order that the officers may be installed at the same time as the Student Council, will be conducted by Powell. The new counselor urged the class to co-operate to the fullest with him and the disciplinary groups of the campus; offering his services as general adviser to any freshman on matters other than those of discipline.

MID-WINTERS BRINGS FAMOUS ORCHESTRA
(Continued from page 1)
out the nation. Gill and his band also played for dances at Duke and the University of North Carolina a short time before Christmas.

On Other Campuses

WESTERN RESERVE UNIVERSITY
“Sweet College Days” is the tune Western Reserve University students are singing and there is a good deal more than sentiment behind it. A large swarm of bees has firmly entrenched itself in the walls of Adelbert Hall on the campus and will probably stay there if they behave themselves. Although approximately 150 pounds of honey has been deposited within the walls, the college officials have decided that the cost of removing the honey would far exceed the value of the honey itself; so long as there is no disturbance the apian visitors will remain unmolested. (The Emory Wheel.)

LOYOLA
Huey Longism has affected Louisiana in more ways than one. Back in the good ole days, when men were men, and John M. Parker was governor of the state, students and citizens of New Orleans fought duels to settle disputes. Gentlemanly duels have gone out of existence since Huey’s new mode of fighting has become the rage (brawling)! That is, two students at Loyola think so. Seems as though a certain class in Polit disagreed over some question of law. The argument waxed so warm that two students in the rear of the room began a hearty demonstration of the “Long method.” However, the professor broke up the demonstration, and persuaded the students to settle the dispute by other means!

WISCONSIN
At least two Wisconsin co-eds are having trouble getting dates for the university prom. Two personals appeared in the student newspaper, carrying the following captions,—“Men Wanted.” One advertiser, willing to pay all expenses, specified that the man must be “at least 5 feet 10 inches tall and a good dancer.” The other offered to share expenses, described herself as “brunette, considered attractive and about 5 feet 3 inches tall.” The boys have until the middle of February to think it over.

LOUISIANA
“Most doctors bury their mistakes, but I make sausage out of mine,” stated Dr. Branchioni, of Louisiana State, after he had discovered that the Louisiana State University’s prize-winning cow was butchered by mistake by the meat culturing class.

WHEN A FELLER NEEDS A FRIEND
There’s genial sunshine and comfort in BRIGGS Pipe Mixture... the delightful new tobacco that is winning smokers everywhere. Mellowed in the wood for years, until it’s biteless, mild, and rare in flavor! Try a tin of BRIGGS and let it talk in your pipe instead of in print.

KEPT FACTORY FRESH by inner lining of CELLOPHANE
© P. Lorillard Co., Inc.