THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 28, 1934

REV. SPAUGH TALKS AT Y.M.C.A. VESPERS

Speaker Discusses Three Greatest Choices in Life

“Mental and spiritual mismating is the cause of much incompatibility among married people,” said the Rev. Herbert Spaugh in his
address at vespers last Sunday. He added that men and women should consider their mental, religious, and physical relationships in
marriage, as these three were the basis of a successful marriage. Mr. Spaugh is the pastor of the Myers Park
Moravian Church of Charlotte and is well known to the people of this section of the state. His subject, “Choices,”
was of especial interest to Davidson students at this time, since it was a fitting beginning for the talks on
vocational guidance which are to begin this week.

Mr. Spaugh talked on the three greatest choices which come into the life of a man: the choice of a
vocation, the choice of a wife, and the choice of a religion. We are here now preparing either to choose
or to follow out our choice of a vocation. In selecting the ministry for a vocation, Mr. Spaugh advised first,
a more thorough knowledge of the business world. He said that a young man who expected to take theological training
should first get out into more practical lines of business and industry. He should acquaint himself with the conditions under
which others work and live, in order that he may have a better understanding and keener judgment to aid him
as a minister. All professions and vocations should be familiar to him if he expects to render the most service
to mankind as a minister.

In choosing a wife, Mr. Spaugh said that many things must be considered. Both husband and wife should take into
consideration the necessity for a well-balanced relationship mentally, religiously, and physically. Mr. Spaugh spoke from his experience of ten years
as a pastor and one who had been especially interested in the relationships of marriage. He said that the first
couple he married were soon separated, which resulted in the plan of devoting at least an hour to talking with
each one of every couple who came to him to be married. He suggests books on problems of marriage. So
far, he said, every marriage since has been lasting and successful.

In discussing the choice of a religion, Mr. Spaugh did not speak of religious beliefs and differentiating between one denomination
and another, but talked of the broader principles included in all Christian religions. He contrasted the present-day attitude which, he
said, is expressed by an article in a recent copy of “The American,” entitled “Why Be Honest?” with the idea
so well expressed by the poem reading, “Let me live in my house by the side of the road, and
be a friend to man.”

Band Plays at Chapel Wed. Before Trustees

Davidson Alumnus Directs Orchestra in Own Composition

The College Band’s concert in chapel Wednesday, February 21, featured the playing of the March, “The Fencing Master,” by James
C. Harper, director of the famous Lenoir High School Band. Harper, a trustee and alumnus of Davidson, directed the band
in the playing of the number. Introduced by Pfohl as one of North Carolina’s most able men in the field
of music, Harper directs a 75-piece band and has a junior band of 40 members under his direction. He has
a number of compositions to his credit and his band, from a class B school, tied for first place in
class A competition at the state music contests last year. The Lenoir Band and the Davidson Band are to exchange
concerts in March, the Davidson Band playing in Lenoir on March 9 and the Lenoir Band returning the compliment with
a concert here on the 15th of March.

Literary Society Holds Installation Ceremony

The newly-elected officers of the Philanthropic Literary Society, C. A. McNeil, president; Cameron Deans, vice-president; George Hornbeck, secretary and treasurer;
W. L. Fugate, critic, and C. A. Harper, supervisor, were installed at the regular meeting of the society Tuesday night.
President McNeil in his inaugural talk warned that “A revival of interest in the work of the organization must be
shown if the organization is to continue on the campus.” Regular attendance, prompt payment of dues, and more conscientious literary
effort were urged by McNeil to the society in the endeavor to raise her standards of work.

Many Trees Damaged By Heavy Sleet Storm

Superintendent of Grounds, F. D. Hobart, stated today that trees on the college campus had been damaged considerably Sunday night
by the accumulation of a heavy coat of ice on the branches. All over the campus at frequent intervals throughout
the night could be heard the crack and roar of giant limbs unable longer to support their heavy load of
ice. The campus took on a wintry aspect as fallen debris and broken trees littered the walks and lawn. Miniature
lakes and pools were formed everywhere as a result of the heavy deluge of the previous day. Pipe lines were
found to be clogged and several walks almost entirely obliterated. Expert tree men were called in immediately to survey the
extent of the damage and are now removing the fallen limbs and repairing the damaged trees. A statement from the
treasurer of the college, F. L. Jackson, reveals that no insurance was carried on the trees.

Keys Are Selected For Pan-Hellenic Members

The Pan-Hellenic Council met on Thursday, February 22, to discuss plans for the Bowery Ball and the purchase of keys
for the members of the council. The date of the Bowery Ball has not yet been definitely decided upon, but
it is certain that it will be in the latter part of April. As yet there have been no arrangements
made with any orchestra, but it is hoped that a well-known one will be secured. Also at this meeting it
was decided that keys would be bought for the members of the council. This year will be the first time
that keys have been bought for the Pan-Hellenic Council. The keys will be of average size, about an inch long
and three-quarters of an inch wide. The general shape of the key is rectangular with a curved top and bottom.
On the face is a Corinthian column with olive leaves engraved on each side of it and a “D” at
the top of the column. “Pan-Hellenic Council” will be engraved at the base of it, while on the reverse side
of the key will be the owner’s name and the fraternity he represents.

Davidson Pastor Talks At Ministerial Meeting

Program for the Month of March Outlined

The Davidson Ministerial Band met Thursday, February 22, with Dr. H. M. Moffett, pastor of the Davidson College Church, as
the principal speaker. He talked on the direct approach the Ministerial Band should make to the Davidson students who aren't
church members or active in religious activities. He expressed the necessity for a successful minister to have a keen knowledge
of character and physiognomy, which is acquired by the direct contact with people. He hoped that the Y. M. C.
A. and the Ministerial Band would combine, stating that both deputations would be strengthened. W. J. Livingston gave the program
forThe month of March, in which the band will hold services March 11 at Myers Park Presbyterian Church of Charlotte.
On March 18, the band will hold another Sunday night service at the Davidson College Church with J. W. Morgan
giving the principal talk. At the last Sunday night service held at the Davidson Church, the main talks were given
by E. J. Humphrey and D. P. Bailey. Humphrey talked on the subject, “Faith in the Resurrection,” and Bailey on,
“The Meaning of Christ’s Death.” B. L. Rose read the scriptures, and A. M. Cunningham and H. T. Morris played
several cornet duets. Last Sunday D. R. Brandon, vice-president of the Ministerial Band, preached at the First Presbyterian Church of
Gastonia.

Professors in Biology Suffer Attack of Flu

Dr. S. C. Lyon, of the Biology Department, missed classes three days last week due to a slight attack of
influenza. He has now returned to his office and classroom duties, having recovered from his illness. Mr. Brannon, assistant to
Dr. Lyon, was also taken sick with flu, having to discontinue his laboratory work for a few days, and at
the writing of this he is still unable to be at work, but is reported to be improving and will
resume his duties soon.

Davidson Scouts Will Organize Relief Drive

The President of the United States in his address to the Boy Scouts of America several days ago asked them
as their “Good Turn” to the nation to gather up in each community all the possible material that can be
used in the relief of human want. The Davidson Boy Scouts are now canvassing the town in an effort to
do their part. Edwin Hodge, local scoutmaster, requests the following of the townspeople: Anything which members of this community are
not using in the line of household articles, furniture, mattresses, etc., can be placed to good advantage in the homes
of those less fortunate. All possible material including clothes, bedding, and particularly household goods, are welcome. This collected material is
to be turned over to the proper authorities and they will distribute it to the best advantage of all concerned.

DR. GWYNN SPEAKS

Dr. Price H. Gwynn, professor of sociology, spoke to the young people and congregation of the Second Presbyterian Church in
Charlotte Sunday night, in what he called “The Spread the Eagle” fashion, on the subject, “Love, Courtship, and Marriage.”

DAVIDSON THEATRE TO SHOW ‘CAROLINA’

Play Written by Carolinian Will Be Feature of Week

This week brings to the theater-lovers two of the best of the current movies, of entirely different character. The first,
written by a man of Carolina and filmed partially in the Carolinas, will appeal to all, and the other will
appeal to those who love fun and comedy.

Wednesday and Thursday, February 28 and March 1—Carolina

This is the first of the two mentioned above. Lionel Barrymore and Janet Gaynor are starred together in it, as
she takes the part of the young Yankee girl and he takes the part of the proud old Southerner, who
meet in the Carolinas after the war and have such different ideas. It is the touching story of the old
South, very cleverly done by all those concerned, and it should not be missed. Also in the cast are Richard
Cromwell, Henrietta Crosman, and last, but not least, Stepin Fetchit.

Friday, March 2—Hips, Hips, Hooray

The latest and probably the best of all the funny Wheeler and Woolsey comedies. In this they are at the
top of their art, and as for what was said at the head about this one, I will even say
that I think everyone will like it. The situations in which they find themselves are screaming, and they have found
many new ones to place themselves in. There are many musical scores which are very good, which would be expected
with Ruth Etting in the cast. Thelma Todd and Dorothy Lee complete the cast to this comedy, which should be
very good.

Saturday, March 3

No feature has been billed for this date, but it is probable that “Heat Lightening” will be added, a delightful
comedy.

Monday, March 5—Man of Two Worlds

Francis Lederer makes his appearance to the American public in this interpretation of Eskimo life. He has the part of
the native helper of the English explorer, J. Farrell McDonald. Falling in love with a picture of Elissa Landi, he
returns with the white men to their country, where he finds life to be not just as he thought it,
and he returns to his own country. With him in this picture, he brings Steffi Duna, from his native Czecho-Slovakia.
The picture is good, but somewhat inappropriate for Lederer’s first appearance.

Tuesday, March 6—I Believed in You

All known about this show is the cast, which includes Rosemary Ames, Victor Jory, and John Boles.

(Continued on page 6)

Spanish Organizations In Joint Meeting Wed.

Characteristics and Customs of the Spaniard Discussed

“Spanish Life” furnished the topic for the program at the joint meeting of the Spanish Club and Sigma Delta Pi,
national honorary Spanish fraternity, Wednesday night. Fred L. Smyre, president, presided, and Jack Williams, Jr., acted as program chairman, pro
tempore.

Edward J. Humphrey's subject was “Popular Amusements in Spain.” He brought out the fact that there seem to be two
main diversions in Spain, dancing and bullfighting. The fact that theatrical representations have always been a popular form of entertainment
among Spaniards was brought out by the speaker. The Spanish Zarzuela is the forerunner of our modern musical farce. Religious
festivals are so characteristic of Spanish life that they may be included in this category.

The topic, “Spanish National Characteristics,” was discussed by Fred McPhail. He mentioned dignity as the first chief characteristic. Courtesy was
another quality referred to as typical of the Spaniard. It is generally conceded that the Spaniard is lazy, but McPhail
explained this by calling attention to the fact that the sunny skies of Spain are partly responsible for the languid
attitude of the people.

President Smyre announced that he...

(Continued on page 6)

STATIONERY - Printing of all Types

CALLING CARDS

FRATERNITY PAPERS

PROGRAMS at Reasonable Rates

See BILL JOHNSON

203 Watts @ Garland Court

Standard Printing Company

CHARLOTTE, N.C.

© 1934, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.

A sensible package 10 cents is about as good as a tobacco pouch

This Granger package is what I call good common sense. It’s just about as good as a tobacco pouch. Here’s
what I mean—it keeps the tobacco right, and you can fold it up smaller after every pipe. That makes it
handy to carry. And I want to put in a word for the tobacco while I’m at it. Granger keeps
a pipe clean as a whistle, and man, it is cool. I want to say Granger is just about the
best tobacco I ever smoked.

The pipe tobacco that’s MILD

The pipe tobacco that’s COOL

Folks seem to like it
