O. D. K. TO INITIATE SIX MEN TAPPED LAST WEDNESDAY

LUX UB! ORTA

The Davidsonian

ALENDA LIBERTAS

RHODES APPLICANTS ARE SUBMITTED BY LOCAL COMMITTEE

Vol. XXII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., NOVEMBER 14, 1934 No. 8

FIVE DELEGATES SENT TO STATE PRESS MEETING

Weeks, Wadsworth, McPhail, Wyche, And Rose Are Davidson Representatives

ASSEMBLE IN HIGH POINT

Newspaper Men Make Talks On Journalistic Work

Five Davidson representatives attended the North Carolina Collegiate Press Association Conference which was held in High Point on Thursday, Friday, and Saturday of last week. Those representing the local Board of Publications in its first meeting with the Association were: K. D. Weeks and Joe Wadsworth, for “The Davidsonian”; Lorenzo McPhail and Ben Wyche, for The Yowl; and Ben Rose, for Quips and Cranks. Bob Smith, editor of the annual, was unable to attend.

The Conference opened at two o'clock Thursday afternoon with the registration of delegates. This lasted until six. There followed the first of a series of three banquets and dances which were given during the weekend at Hotel Sheraton, the Conference headquarters.

The business session began at nine the next morning with the appointment of various committees. After this, the members were divided into four groups—the editors of annuals entering one group, editors of college papers another, and editors of magazines a third, with the business managers of all types of publications forming one.

Among the editorial groups, the discussion dealt mainly with the many problems encountered in the editorship of college publications, and ways and means of meeting them. The business managers considered various methods of financing, and, in view of increased printing costs, the possibility of a proportionate increase in advertising rates was discussed.

A number of experienced newspapermen addressed the body on different phases of journalistic work and writing, among them Mr. Beck, of Edwards and Broughton, Raleigh, and Mr. Connor, of The High Point Enterprise.

Luncheons were given for the delegates Friday and Saturday, and a banquet and dance on each of the corresponding evenings. The business meetings were brought to a close Saturday by the decision to hold the spring conference in Greensboro, where N. C. C. W. will act as hostess to the Association.

Officers of the organization, which now represents all colleges in the state, including Queens-Chicora, N. C. C. W., and Greensboro College, are: Larry Martin, of N. C. State, president; Thompson Greenwood, of Wake Forest, vice-president; Norman B. Livingood, of Duke University, treasurer; and Catherine Hines, Eastern Carolina Teachers College, secretary.

The Davidson delegation was forced to leave the conference early, returning Friday evening on account of the Homecoming festivities on the Davidson campus.

First Edition Of Yowl Appears November 8th

The much-awaited “Yowl,” Davidson’s one and only humor magazine, made its appearance on the campus last Thursday to the delight of a joke-hungry Student Body and dispelled all hope that “The Davidsonian” was displacing “The Yowl” as Davidson's most humorous publication.

Several humorous short stories, a number of original jokes, and the drawings made the first 1934-35 edition the funniest since the days of D. D. McBryde. The artwork drew especial praise from student readers and was, as many expressed it, the best department in the magazine. On the art staff are Collier Ellis and Howell Overton, sophomores; Calloway, Ryburn, and Vowles, freshmen.

Cameron Deans and Tom Wood supplied the poetry, other than doggerel, and Gibson Smith, Richard Vowles, and John Anderson were the major short story writers. Editor Lorenzo McPhail and his staff of four managing editors and twenty-two assistants are now recuperating from their violent efforts to manufacture wit and, about the life of a humor writer, all agree that “It’s a great life if you don’t weaken.”

Davidson Grads Are Prominent: Four Alumni Are Elected To Offices At The Union Theological Seminary

Four Davidson graduates, Jack McKinnon, Harry Moffett, Tom M. Davis, and Sam Wiley, have been elected to presidencies at the Union Theological Seminary at Richmond, Virginia. Jack McKinnon, Jacksonville, Fla., was elected President of the Student Body, while Harry Moffett, of Davidson, was elected head of the Senior class. Tom Davis, a member of the Middle class, was chosen president of that class and Sam Wiley, president of the Junior class.

Davidson alumni have been unusually prominent in the Richmond Presbyterian Seminary during previous years and are well represented in all campus activities of the Seminary. Other minor offices are filled by Davidson graduates at the present time.

Sam Wiley, former Y. M. C. A. secretary, graduated from Davidson College in the class of 1931-32. While a member of the Student Body, Wiley was a member of the “Y” cabinet, senior advisor to the freshman class, was a member of the Y. M. C. A. Board of Control and was elected to the Student Council. Sam Wiley was a member of eight honorary fraternities, listed among them are Phi Beta Kappa, Omega Phi Alpha, Scabbard and Blade, and Alpha Phi Epsilon. He was chosen president of the Honorary Fraternity Council. Wiley was major of the R. O. T. C. battalion and a (Continued on Page 5, Column 6)

O. D. K. TO HOLD FALL INITIATION

Leadership Fraternity Will Initiate Recent Pledges Monday

The fall initiation ceremony of the Delta Circle of Omicron Delta Kappa, national honorary leadership fraternity, will be held next Monday night in the banquet hall of Chambers Building. At this time the men tapped last Wednesday, November 7, in Chapel will be initiated. The following men will be initiated: R. T. Coit, Richmond, Va.; C. T. Fort, Barium Springs; J. C. Mackorell, Hickory; W. L. Northern, Sarasota, Fla.; M. Rogers, Florence, Ala.; and George Wingfield, Reidsville.

All the plans for the banquet are not yet completed. One new feature of this banquet, however, will be that the wives of the faculty and alumni, who are members of the Circle, will be invited, and the old and new undergraduate members will take girls to the banquet and ceremony as their guests.

Another tap day for the leadership fraternity will be held after the elections next spring.

Interviewed by Richard B. Vowles

On first meeting Palmer Christian, at the home of Prof. Pfohl, this interviewer was immediately impressed by the fact that the famous organist was so genial, in direct contrast to the usually expected eccentricity of the once typical musician. His conversation was sparkling, like his personality, and he exhibited no reticence in answering my questions.

“There’s one question I know would interest the students especially. What do you think of jazz?”

“I like jazz—that is, certain types. Of course, it’s just a means of entertainment. I don’t recall the names of any compositions that appeal to me especially, but of the various orchestras I believe Paul Whiteman’s is the best. After all, though, jazz is a temporary means of entertainment. One cannot get the cultural benefit from it which can be derived from classical music.”

“What do you think of music as a profession? Do you think that it has great possibilities for the college student?”

“The music profession today is not for the indifferent, or for the person who lacks initiative and the will to work. In the past, the only qualifications of the musician were to have long hair and dirty fingernails, and to come from Europe. Now times have changed, and the musician must have a pleasing personality, instead of being eccentric.”

“Do you think radio is helping music or harming it?”

“I believe that, although it harms it to a certain extent, in the end it helps to make music more universally appreciated. It brings good music, although not enough, to every type of individual. Of course, it keeps a certain element from concerts, but on the other hand, it excites an interest in music that draws another element to the concerts. All in all, I believe the radio to be a great asset to the art of music.”

“How do you compare the organ, your own instrument, with other instruments?”

“The organ is, in my opinion, the greatest instrument because of its wide variety of tonal effects. Of course, to be played with best results, it must be in a room with proper acoustics. The majority of laymen do not realize this. They assume that, if there are no visible pipes, the total mechanism is located in the console.”

“What type of audience is most appreciative? How does the college audience compare with the general audience?”

“I really can’t say as to that. Audiences do not vary greatly as a whole. (Continued on Page 5, Column 6)

Byerly Attends ROTC Assembly

Scabbard And Blade Delegates To Meet In Cincinnati; November 15.16, 17 Company B, Fifth Regiment, of Scabbard and Blade has chosen Fritz Byerly of Greensboro as delegate to the 19th Convention at the University of Cincinnati, Nov. 15th, 16th, and 17th. Byerly will leave on the 14th for the Convention City. Byerly is a member of Kappa Sigma, social fraternity, president of Sigma Delta Psi, national athletic fraternity, member of the D Club, track team, holds office in Scabbard and Blade, and is a first lieutenant in Company G. This convention will be attended by delegates from 78 companies representing all sections of the United States. The organization of advanced R.O.T.C. students selected for their interest and ability in military service is composed of Scabbard and Blade. It expresses its purpose and ideals in the preamble of its constitution as follows: “Believing that military service is an obligation of citizenship, and that the great opportunities afforded college men for their study of military science places upon them certain responsibilities as citizens, we, the cadet officers in various universities and colleges conferring baccalaureate degrees, do form this society and adopt this constitution in order to unite in closer relationship the military departments in American universities and colleges, to preserve and develop the essential qualities of good and efficient officers, to prepare ourselves as educated men to take a more active part and to have a greater influence in the military affairs of the community in which we reside, and above all, to spread intelligent information concerning the military requirements of our country.”

FORENSIC GROUP HOLDS TRYOUTS
Ambitious Schedule Is Planned For College Debating Team

The Forensic Council announced Tuesday that the State question for debate this year is, Resolved: That all nations should agree to prevent international shipment of arms and munitions. Tryouts for the varsity debating teams will be held the night of Nov. 22 in Chambers Auditorium. The debating schedule this year is the most ambitious in the history of the activity here. Among the different colleges on the list for competition are: Rutgers, Bucknell, University of Richmond, Sweetbriar, Sewanee, Centre, University of Miami, University of Florida, College of Charleston, and Mary Baldwin College. A large number of candidates for the debating team has already been submitted, and probabilities are that this coming season's forensic activities will have quite an array of experienced debaters as well as talented orators.

Upperclassmen who figured most highly in last year's forensic program were: G. H. Brown, Bob Smith, and A. C. Stutts. It is hoped that the members of last year’s Freshman Debating Team, K. M. Scott, W. S. Edwards, A. T. Port, and C. W. Mauze, will again offer their assistance in this work. Debating for many years has been one of the chief extra-curricular activities on the Davidson Campus, and one that has won renown in many large institutions.

Fraternity Meets
Alpha Phi Epsilon, national honorary forensic fraternity, met Thursday night at 10 o'clock at the Kappa Alpha Fraternity House for its regular business meeting. The regular business was transacted, featuring a report of the Committee of Recommendations of proposed meeting places in the future, by Chairman Warner Dubose. It was decided that new members of this Fraternity will be elected at the next meeting. Following the business portion of the meeting, Gordon “Skip” Brown entertained the group with an impersonation. An impromptu debate on the statement made by Robert Ingersoll, “That college is a place where diamonds are dimmed and pebbles are rounded,” was another feature of the latter part of the program. Each person claiming to have won his own points, the debate was concluded a tie.

HOMECOMING GAME ATTRACTS RECORD CROWD
Select Candidates For Rhodes Scholar Tests

The local committee on the Rhodes Scholarships, made up of Professors Cumming, Lilly, and Vowles, submitted the names of six candidates at the meeting of the Executive Committee on October 8. These were approved, as follows: Robert H. Smith and John R. Taylor, for Alabama; Gordon H. Brown, John M. Douglas, Thomas H. Sutton, and Gordon R. Wood, for North Carolina. These candidates will appear before state committees January 3 or 5, but their applications must reach the committees on or before November 17.

D. E. K. Emurian, class of 1931, B.A. summa cum laude, is being submitted by Union Theological Seminary, as a candidate for the state of Virginia. After graduating from Union as first honor man with the B.D. degree, he entered Princeton Theological Seminary, where he is now studying for the degree of Master of Theology. Emurian is also an organist of ability. Candidates who are successful in state competitions will appear before district committees, eight in number, and the final selection of the usual quota of 32 Rhodes Scholars will be made early in January.

HOOD ADDRESSES COLLEGE GROUP
Vital Problems Are Discussed By Conference Of North Carolina Educators

Dr. Hood, at Davidson, in his address before the North Carolina College Conference at the Hotel King Cotton in Greensboro, Friday night, Nov. 9, warned that “in this era of economic collapse and financial disorder the very existence of organized education is at stake. Perhaps I ought not to say it,” Dr. Hood, former president of the Conference, continued, “but I must confess at times I find it embarrassing to defend modern education, when, as a teacher, I am painfully aware that college graduation is not synonymous with college education and you know as well as I do that a baccalaureate degree is not prima facie evidence that the holder is an educated man.”

Dr. Hood's talk, delivered at a joint meeting of the executive committee and the chairmen of the standing committees, was in accord with the general theme of the fourteenth annual meeting of the College Conference, “The Selection and Preparation of Teachers.” Dr. Hood also presented important reports of the committee on necrology. A report of a special committee on “Athletic Manifesto” was presented by Dr. I. W. Lingle, Professor of History at Davidson. Considerable discussion revolved around the report regarding the athletic manifesto, concerning what was considered the proper status of athletics in college. This report was referred to the athletic committee for deliberation.

One of the outstanding features on the program for the closing session was a memorandum on the minimum professional requirements for teachers, by Dr. C. R. Harding, Professor of Greek Language and Literature at Davidson. Dr. George Arps, dean of the college of education at Ohio State University, delivered a forceful address on “Science and the Social Order.” Dr. Arps, known as one of the advanced thinkers in the field of education, visited Dr. Hood in Davidson, Wednesday, Nov. 7, and expressed himself as “greatly delighted with the high type of students at Davidson and pleased with the personnel of the college faculty.” The dean of Education commented on the beauty of the Chambers Building. One significant action of the group was the reinstatement of the intelligence examinations for high school seniors throughout the State. These examinations have been suspended for the past two years, but it was the opinion of the body that the examining board be established and the work carried out without any undue inconvenience this year.

(Continued on Page 5, Column 5)

OF ALUMNI
Spirited Wildcat Eleven Holds Powerful Carolina Team To 12-2 Score

ALUMNI LUNCHEON GIVEN
James Christian Pfohl Directs College Concert Band

A record crowd of alumni returned to the Davidson campus last weekend to make Saturday, November 10, one of the most successful Homecoming days in the history of the school. The feature entertainment of the day was the Davidson-Carolina football game on Richardson field at 2:30, in which a hard-fighting Wildcat eleven bowed to the Tar Heels by a score of 12-2. Also on the program were a concert, an informal dinner, and a set of dances.

On Saturday, the official welcome, characterized this year by its informality, was begun. At 10 o'clock the alumni had a meeting in the faculty room. About one hundred and fifty graduates registered but there were many more present who attended the alumni luncheon and game. The Davidson concert band, under the direction of J. Pfohl, gave its first concert of the year at 11:45 in honor of about 250 alumni. Following this, the alumni attended an informal luncheon in the banquet hall. The Carolina delegation, 150 strong, arrived at Davidson about noon by way of special train. On the same train was the Carolina band and Rameses, the C.U. mascot. The game was ushered in at 2:30 by a short rain that drenched one of the largest crowds ever to attend a game at Richardson field. An accompanying thunderstorm managed to cut off the current and prevent announcements for the first quarter. Davidson got credit for their safety in the first period, but Carolina ran over two touchdowns later in the game to take the lead away. Both bands paraded at the half and formed figures for the spectators. Rain came again in the last few minutes of the game, more persistent this time, lasting through most of the afternoon and night.

All the Davidson fraternities were socially kept on their toes by visits from girls and from Carolina brothers at the same time. A Homecoming dance at the Hotel Charlotte, Saturday night, completed the weekend. Music was furnished by Jimmy Poiner and his orchestra, from State College, to a multitude of Carolina, Davidson, and alumni dancers who crowded the floor. This was the second dance of the set sponsored by the Pan-Hellenic Council. The first was on Friday night. Girls down on fraternity bids for the weekend were: Zeta Theta Pi: Marie Nickirls, Charlotte; Jean Montgomery, Charlotte; Wilfred Schlosser, Greensboro; Jane Goodwin, Greensboro; Kate Maynard, Wilson; Margaret Abbot, Wilson; Lorena Fairbanks, Fort Dupont, Del.; Betty Shalett, New London, Conn.; Myra Gapin, Reidsville; Westell McCollum, Greensboro.

(Continued on Page 6, Column 3)

Carolina Pep Meeting Most Spirited Of Year

The best attended and the most spirited pep meeting of the year was held last Friday night in anticipation of the annual Davidson-Carolina football game which was played Saturday, resulting in Carolina winning a hard-fought battle 12-2. Joe Johnston, of Barium Springs, was the principal speaker. He made several clever puns on the names of various D.C. football men bringing out the superiority of our men over the Tar Heels. All Freshmen were at the pep rally and at least two hundred upperclassmen were there to contribute volume to the yells attempted. A number of Carolina students were also present. The first-year men, after a series of yells which were given in Shearer Hall, were lined up in single file and with shirt tails out were led by the cheerleaders in a so-called shirt tail parade, through the “D” and over to the Freshman field where a bonfire was burning brightly. The freshmen formed a circle and did a prolonged snake dance around the fire. A number of cheers were given after which the pep meeting was brought to an end.