THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 9, 1934

Students Conduct Vespers at First Open-Air Services

“Prayer” Is Subject of Talks by Humphrey and Morrow at Vespers

LED BY SENIOR CLASS

Vocal Duet Furnishes Music for Meeting

The natural beauties of the Davidson campus were the setting for the annual Senior class vesper services last Sunday evening,
as members of the student body gathered under the trees between Chambers and the Phi Hall. The services were presided
over by Fred Smyre, who introduced the two speakers, E. J. Humphrey and R. C. Morrow. The group was led
in prayer by A. H. Manson. Immediately after Humphrey spoke, Mrs. G. R. Vowles and Mrs. N. G. Pritchett rendered
a vocal duet, accompanied by A. D. Wauchope.

The general theme for the service was prayer, which was first discussed by Humphrey, who spoke on “Living Prayer.” He
sketched first the foundations which most of us have for our prayer life, saying that it was largely due to
the influences we received at home from our parents. “Prayer,” he said, “is not like a cloak, which is to
be put on and taken off at will, only when we need it. Neither is it to be regarded as
a ceremony useful only on Sunday or when we feel that we have some special need for it. Prayer is
rather living in fellowship with God.” The speaker stressed the need of faith in prayer as his final point, closing
by quoting a short poem on faith.

Morrow, following the general theme of prayer, spoke on the answers to our prayers. He cited several specific instances of
very definite answers to prayers with which he was familiar. He brought out the fact that God did not always
answer our prayers as we would like to have them answered, because we are incapable of always knowing just what
is best for ourselves. Rather than regret, we should be glad that some of our prayers are not answered. He
reminded us that God cannot be coerced as the heathen sometimes try to force their gods to help them. Morrow
characterized prayer as “the sharing of your feelings with God at all times.” Emphasis was laid on two-way prayer, or
God's speaking to us as well as our speaking to God. We should seek the guidance of God on all
questions which confront us.

“Y” Cabinet Will Hold Party at Montreat

Professor and Mrs. Schenck Will Chaperone Outing

Members of the old Y. M. C. A. Cabinet are leaving Saturday for Montreat, N. C., where they will have
their annual house party. Professor and Mrs. L. B. Schenck will act as chaperones for the affair, and each member
has invited a girl. For several years it has been the custom of the retiring “Y” Cabinet to have a
last get-together at the end of each school year. Last year the Cabinet also gave a house party in Montreat,
inviting girls for the occasion, and such a good time was had that the members of this year’s Cabinet decided
to try the same plan. Professor and Mrs. Schenck also acted as chaperones last year.

The Cabinet is composed of the following: W. M. Thompson, president; Tom Phifer, vice-president; Bob Coit, vice-president; Sam Wiley, general
secretary; Rufus Morrow, who is in charge of plans for the house party; Lynn Huie, Bill Johnson, Alec McGeachy, Sam
Nickey, E. L. Powell, Francis Scott, Fred Smyre, W. T. Thompson, and Julian West. Members of the party will return
some time Monday morning.

Student Registrations Rapidly Approach Limit

According to a statement by F. W. Hengeveld, registrar, made last Monday, the registrations for next year appear very encouraging.
Already 425 old students have signified their intention to return to the college for the 1934-35 session, and the registration
for first-year men is far above the number registered at this time last year. Mr. Hengeveld said that at the
present rate, the limit for the Freshman class for next year would be reached toward the early part of the
summer vacation.

AROUND TOWN

By RICHARD VOWLES

The annual Junior-Senior Banquet of the Davidson High School was held in the Civic League Hall Wednesday evening, May 2.
Clayton Cochran, president of the Junior class, presided as toastmaster, and the following responded with toasts: To the Senior class,
Bill Pope, vice-president of the Junior class; response, Goudyloch Erwin, president of the Senior class; to the faculty, Emily Goodrum,
secretary of the Junior class; response, Miss Maud Vinson, Junior class counselor. After a delightful supper served by the mothers
of the members of the Junior class, the hosts and guests enjoyed the movie, “Melody in Spring.”

The Davidson Music Club held its final meeting of the year in the Civic League Hall Tuesday, May 1. The
program, under the leadership of Mrs. Murphy, was a study of the composers, Maurice Ravel, Richard Strauss, and Palmgren. The
guest soloist was Miss Goudyloch Erwin of the Junior Music Club. She played a piano solo, “Traumerei,” by Strauss.

At a special meeting of the Senior class held Saturday, May 5, Miss Grace James, class counselor, announced that the
valedictorian and salutatorian had been chosen. The valedictorian is to be Dorothy Johnston, with an average of 97.0, and the
salutatorian, Richard Vowles, with an average of 97. The class elected, as other participants in the commencement exercises, the following:
Jennie Thompson, Class History; Elizabeth Shewmake, Class Poem; Dill Allison, Class Will, and Goudyloch Erwin, Class Prophecy.

Dorothy Johnston, Mary Withers, Anne Lee Pritchett, Elizabeth Shewmake, Mary Louise Moffett, and Miriam Goodrum were the guests of Salem
College at its annual May Day festival last weekend.

Mr. and Mrs. Hayne Henderson, Davidson residents of long standing, will leave soon for Florida, where they will make their
home in the future.

Coach and Mrs. Laird, accompanied by Miss Steele, recently visited Coach and Mrs. Younger, former Davidson residents, now of Blacksburg,
Va.

Margaret McKnight entertained for her sister on Wednesday afternoon at the home of her aunt, Mrs. Carter.

Professor and Mrs. W. L. Porter have had as their guest this past week Mrs. Harriet Hurd, of Rock Hill,
S. C.

Mrs. Robert Garth and little daughter, Clara, have returned to New York after a visit at the home of Mrs.
Garth’s parents, Dr. and Mrs. T. W. Lingle.

Misses Daisy Caldwell, Susie Jackson, Sarah Withers, Charlotte Hunter, and Helen Deans have returned to Davidson from their respective teaching
posts.

Classical Fraternity Elects New Leaders

Coit Chosen New President of Eta Sigma Phi

Bob Coit, of Richmond, Va., was elected president of the Eta Sigma Phi, honorary classical fraternity, for the coming year,
at a special meeting on Wednesday, May 3. Don Brandon will act as vice-president and Pete Neill was chosen treasurer
for the coming year. “Wimpy” Ravanel was elected corresponding secretary; Carl Chapman, recording secretary, and Addison Brenizer was elected sergeant-at-arms,
to serve as next year’s officers.

Three juniors, J. M. Douglas, Jr., A. B. Rhodes and R. H. Smith, were initiated into Eta Sigma Phi. Seven
sophomores, W. A. Benfield, C. B. Chapman, S. N. Milton, W. D. Morton, C. G. Smith, F. M. Toole, and
J. M. Walker, were also initiated at the same time.

The Eta Sigma Phi, honorary Greek and Latin fraternity, promotes interest in Greek and Latin on the Davidson campus. An
average of “B” or better, and an active interest in Greek and Latin are the requirements for membership into this
fraternity. Bob Coit succeeds Tee Thompson as president. “Skip” Brown, George Gullette, Arche Coleman, “Wimpy” Ravanel, and Pete Neill served
as last year’s officers.

After the election of new officers and the initiation of new men, a feed was given by the fraternity. Dr.
Harding made a short speech after the feed about revising the ritual of the fraternity.

The geology department of Indiana University has presented a collection of fossils which compose Indiana limestone to Rockefeller Center in
New York City.

Competitive Drill to Be Held Friday

Major Rhett to Award Cup to Winning Company

On Friday, May 11, at 3:20 o'clock, a competitive company drill will be held between the four companies of the
R. O. T. C. battalion here. This is an annual affair and determines the company which has procured the greatest
amount of efficiency in close order drill during the school year just completed. A silver loving cup, donated by Major
Rhett and now on display in the window of the White Drug Co., will be awarded to the winning company
and will be presented at the final parade of the school year. The winner of the cup for this year
will be announced at the completion of the drill. “B” Company now holds the cup, having won it last year.

The drill will be held on the freshman athletic field and the public is cordially invited to attend.

On May 16, the final parade of the year will be held. At this time, the graduating cadet officers of
the battalion will be presented with their commissions as second lieutenants in the Officers Reserve Corps of the U. S.
Army. This is always a very impressive ceremony and a large crowd of spectators is expected to witness the event.
The presentation of the silver cup will be a feature.

Starting on Thursday, May 17, all uniforms and equipment will be turned in and the year’s military work will be
completed.

Dr. F. C. Brown Ends Annual “Y” Services

Subject of Last Address Is “What Lack I Yet?”

The final session of the Y. M. C. A. spring services was brought to a close last Wednesday night, May
2, by Dr. Frank C. Brown, of the Bream Memorial Church of Charleston, W. Va. This vesper service, which was
the last of a series of eight, had as its theme, “What Lack I Yet?” In his own illustrative style,
Dr. Brown brought forth that no matter how many virtues a man had, if he failed to follow Christ, he
was infinitely lacking. He ended by asking, “When Jesus calls, what answer will you give?”

An account of the first two days’ services appeared in the last Davidsonian. The Tuesday morning service had as its
subject, “What I Am.” This talk was concerned with “masquerading,” fooling yourself and others by playing a part rather than
being your real self. He urged everyone to be true to themselves. The subject of the Tuesday night servicewas “the
danger of losing sight of God.” He cited as an example Lot's choice of the fertile side of the Jordan.
In this choice, he and his family lost sight of God and he failed because of the lost communication. Wednesday
morning, Dr. Brown talked of the race of life and the constant comparison of life to a race in the
Bible. “Life,” he said, “is an endurance race,” and preparation is necessary. This preparation is training, discipline, and self-control, and
is essential for the mastery of the race. The starter is Christ, and we must rid ourselves of besetting sins
that impede us. The runner must also have communion with God. Besides his regular talks, Dr. Brown held numerous individual
conferences. All students confronted with problems were invited to make appointments with him.

Services Conducted by Three Student Groups

Three deputations from the Davidson Y.M.C.A. conducted services near here last Sunday, Cornelius, Sherrill’s Ford, and Barium Springs being visited.

W. A. Benfield, Davidson sophomore, preached to the congregation of the Cornelius Presbyterian Church in Cornelius. A deputation composed of
Frank Brown, Bob Lyerly, and Doug Wauchope, all freshmen, assisted at the morning services at the Sherrill’s Ford Church. Bob
Smith and Bill Livingston, juniors, conducted an open-air vesper service at Barium Springs Sunday afternoon. Sam Wiley, the Davidson Y.M.C.A.
general secretary, delivered a sermon in Robinsonville on Sunday morning.

Fraternity News

KAPPA SIGMA

The Kappa Sigs entertained at their house during the past weekend. Visitors attending were: Misses Eleanor Killick, Lillian Edens, Mary
Elizabeth Wakefield, Ann Purnell, Chic Barringer, Carolyne Hoom, Ann West, and Jean Boyle, of Charlotte; also Miss Lois Neal Hamilton
of Converse College, and Misses Mary C. Withers and Miriam Goodrum of Davidson. Plans are being made for their annual
May Frolics which will be held on the weekend of May 19.

PHI GAMMA DELTA

The Phi Gams are making plans for their annual spring house party which will be held on May 19 at
either Roaring Gap or Lake Lure. They expect to have a dance at the house party. The Phi Gams were
recently visited by Dr. J. H. Dunn of South Carolina. Dr. Dunn is one of the charter members of Delta
Kappa Chapter.

SIGMA ALPHA EPSILON

During the past weekend, the S.A.E.'s held their annual dinner dance at the Charlotte Country Club. There were about seventy
guests present. The color scheme of purple and gold, the fraternity colors, was carried out in all the decorations. Joe
Wadsworth acted as toastmaster and Dr. Scott Lyon gave a few remarks. Faculty and alumni guests present were: Dr. and
Mrs. Scott Lyon, Dr. Douglas, Professor Wood, Professor Erwin, Major and Mrs. James, Mr. and Mrs. Sam Smith, Dr. and
Mrs. Addison Brenizer, Mr. and Mrs. Harvey Moore, Dr. and Mrs. J. W. MacConnell, Professor and Mrs. Lewis Schenck, Mrs.
Albert Sidney Johnson. Those also present were: Misses Lila Tucker, Jessie Purnell, Ann Purnell, Margaret Wardlaw, Amelia Webb, Martha Matthews,
and Celia Wadsworth, all of Charlotte; Miss Martha Arnold, of Spartanburg, S.C.; Miss Sarah Harrill, of Mooresville; Miss Cynthia Barnes,
of Anderson, S.C.; Miss Jane Hashagen, of Gastonia; Miss Patsy Joblin, of Richmond, Va.; Miss Margaret Douglas, of Davidson; Miss
Louise Jordan, of Greenville, S.C.; Miss Margaret Vaughn, of Rocky Mount, N.C.; Misses Jennie Harrison and Adelaide Fortune, of Greensboro;
Misses Martha Withers and Betty Kenna, of Columbia, S.C.; Misses Sara Stevens and Estelle Follin, of Winston-Salem, and Miss Lewis,
of Statesville.

KAPPA ALPHA

On Saturday, May 12, the Kappa Alphas will hold their annual house party on the Catawba River.

SIGMA PHI EPSILON

The S.P.E.’s are making plans for their annual house party, which will be held the weekend of May 12 on
the Catawba River.

PHI DELTA THETA

The Phi Delts elected Duke Glasgow to be their Pan-Hellenic representative for the coming year.

Ministerial Band Will Meet Thursday Night

A meeting of the Ministerial Band, a Davidson organization conducted in the interest of those who intend to make the
ministry their life work, will be held Thursday night to select the officers for the coming year. The purpose of
the organization is to bring the ministerial students together, placing them in the atmosphere of fellowship which will be theirs
in their afterlife. Founded with the college, the band has grown in influence and number and now has thirty-eight members.
This year’s officers are as follows: President, H. R. Kirkpatrick; vice-president, D. R. Brandon; secretary and treasurer, J. C. Alexander.

French Play Given in Annual Festival

Le Cercle Francais Entertains With French Program

The annual festival of Le Cercle Francais, known as the Le Grand Restaurant du Chat qui Dort, was held Tuesday
evening at the home of Professor A. V. Goldiere. The affair was under the joint direction of the owners of
this well-known establishment, Professors Watts and Goldiere, aided by assistants selected from the membership of the French club. With an
atmosphere of a Parisian cafe, with French spoken exclusively by the staff and patrons, the evening's performance was a realistic
imitation of life in the gay French capital. The guests were greeted at the cafe entrance by the proprietors and
were escorted to the desk of the Cassier (Lanier Pratt, president of the circle), who gave them an adequate supply
of French money. Tables were assigned by Le Maitre d'Hotel (Professor Goldiere). Before the meal was served, the guests were
entertained by an all-star cast which played the well-known classic, “Les Martins au Restaurant.” Monsieur and Madame Martin were impersonated
by Professor and Mrs. Goldiere. The part of their youthful and ill-mannered son was played by Prof. H. T. Lilly.
Professor Watts, as Le Garcon, demonstrated how French food should be served, and Madame Watts, as Lise, la Vendeuse, sold
programs, newspapers, cigarettes, and flowers. The staff then served an eight-course dinner of imported French dishes. One of the most
appreciated of these was the French pastries, an enormous tray of genuine Paris delicacies.

At the conclusion of the festivities, a short business meeting was held. Plans were formulated for the promotion of the
moving picture presentation to be held at the Davidson Theatre on May 17, and for the last meeting of the
circle, to be held shortly before examinations. At this meeting, officers will be elected, diplomas awarded, and a one-act play
will be given.

Five New Men Added to Alpha Phi Epsilon

Forensic Group Also Holds Election of Officers

The local chapter of Alpha Phi Epsilon, national forensic fraternity, installed five new members at its regular meeting last Friday
night. The officers for the coming year were also selected. Men initiated were: D. R. Brannon, Kannapolis; Warner DuBose, Jr.,
Mobile, Ala.; C. A. McNeill, Davidson; P. M. Rogers, Florence, Ala.; A. C. Stutts, Eagle Springs. After the initiation, each
new member was required to give a four-minute impromptu speech on some subject assigned by the secretary. Among the subjects
discussed were: “The Whereabouts of Dillinger,” and “Resolved: That the Bird’s-Eye View of a Bull is Better Than the Bull’s-Eye
View of a Bird.” In the election which followed, R. H. Smith, Jr., of Mobile, Ala., was elected president; DuBose
was selected vice-president, and Brannon secretary-treasurer. Smith announced that it is the purpose of the officers to put new life
into the fraternity, to make it more than “just an honorary fraternity.”

“We're Not Dressing” Appears Here Today

Cast Includes Crosby, Lombard, Burns, and Allen

Wednesday, May 9—We're Not Dressing. This is one of the latest musicals, presenting the following cast: Bing Crosby, Carole Lombard,
George Burns, Gracie Allen, Ethel Merman, and Leon Errol. This picture has received favorable criticism and should afford pleasant entertainment.

Thursday, May 10—A Very Honorable Guy. Joe E. Brown returns again in another one of his hilarious performances. He gets
in some terrible jams but manages to get out again. He is ably supported by that diminutive star, Alice White.

Friday, May 11—Keep 'Em Rolling. This picture is one of a supposedly hard-boiled trooper who appeared so and was thought
so by both men and women. However, as you will see if you attend the picture, he was really a
sentimentalist at heart. The cast includes Walter Huston and Frances Dee.

Saturday, May 12—As the Earth Turns. The time that is supposed to elapse between the beginning and end of this
picture is one year. It deals with the life of the Shaw family for this year. Action is plentiful, all
sorts of complications and crises arise, but everything finally turns out for the best. The leading characters are Jean Muir
and Donald Wood.

Monday, May 14—Merry Wives of Reno

Tuesday, May 15—Double Door

Shuford is Elected to Post on “Y” Board

Y.M.C.A. Board of Control Is Now Completed

In the balloting last week to determine the representative of the rising Junior class to serve on the “Y” Board
of Control for next year, Archie Shuford, of Hickory, N.C., was elected over C. B. Chapman, of Talladega, Ala. Bob
Lindsay was previously elected the other junior representative. The election of Shuford completes the roster of the board for the
year 1934-1935, with Bob Coit and Duke Glasgow serving as senior representatives, and Dr. H. B. Arbuckle as faculty representative.
Shuford has proved himself well qualified for the position to which he has been elected by his Y.M.C.A. work here
on the campus in the past. The board functions together with the “Y” Cabinet in the general policies of the
Davidson Y.M.C.A. The Sophomore class does not have a representation on the Board of Control, and there will be one
more meeting this year, but its date is as yet undecided.

GMC Buff Shoe Shop
Modern Shoe Rebuilder
Davidson, N.C.

“DRUGS” “SUNDRIES”
A Complete Drug Store
“Make Our Store Your Store”
Reliable Prescription Druggists
WHITE DRUG COMPANY
“SODA” “PRESCRIPTIONS”

CARS FOR RENT
Gulf Gas and Oil
M. P. HENDERSON

Four Out Of Five College Men Come To Johnson’s Barber Shop

Attention! Order Your Personal Engraved Cards Now. Twenty Styles to Pick From
A SPECIAL PRICE FOR DAVIDSON STUDENTS
Bill Johnson—203 Watts
Standard Printing Company
CHARLOTTE, N.C.
