OTTS LECTURES TO BE DELIVERED IN FEBRUARY

The Davidsonian

Alenda Lux Ubi Orta Libertas

VARSITY DEBATERS ANNOUNCE NEW SCHEDULE

Vol. XXI DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., JANUARY 31, 1934 No. 15

Freshman Debate Tryouts Result In Splendid Material

Edwards, Fryfogle, Mauze, Port, Scott, and Sugg Are Chosen

PLAN THREE MEETS

Forensic Council Judges Debates Held January 12

“Freshman debating tryouts proved a great success from the standpoint of this year’s freshman debates and from the possibility of
future varsity material,” said E. J. Humphrey, president of the Forensic Council, in commenting upon the debate tryouts for first-year
men, completed Friday night, January 12.

Men chosen for the yearling debating team are: Wilbur Edwards, C. T. Mauze, A. T. Port, and Kenneth Scott, with
K. E. Fryfogle and H. G. Sugg as alternates. These men were chosen from the final ten competing Friday. The
ability of the candidates as a whole is evidenced by the fact that the judges debated an hour and a
half before rendering their decisions. From those competing Wednesday were chosen Gaw, Gracie, Mauze, Port and Sugg, and of those
debating (Continued on page 6)

Members of French Society Give Comedy

Le Cercle Francais Is Entertained at Winthrop

Seventeen Davidson members of Le Cercle Francais, honorary French fraternity, were guests of the French society at Winthrop College at
Rock Hill on Tuesday, January 16th.

A complimentary dinner, prepared and served by the girls of the Winthrop organization, was served in the parlors of Johnson
Hall, and a social hour was enjoyed with musical numbers furnished by the visitors and singing of French songs by
the two clubs.

At 7:30, a public performance was given in the auditorium of Johnson Hall, with approximately three hundred persons in attendance.
The Winthrop group presented “L’Arlequinade,” a comedy in two tableaux. The Davidson club gave a program of five numbers: “La
Poule et ses Poulins,” dramatic monologue by Lanier Pratt, president of the Davidson Chapter of the fraternity; a solo by
Dave McLain, accompanied by Bill Hart; “Berceuse de Jocelyn,” by Frank Tucker, and a one-act play, “L’Anglais Tel Qu’on le
Parle,” by Tristin Bernard. At the conclusion of the public meeting an informal reception was held.

The Davidson French Club has been a leader in similar joint meetings. Last year the Converse College Alliance Francaise was
entertained in Davidson with a joint program given in Chambers Auditorium. The club also made excursions to Queens-Chicora and Salem
Colleges, and in November a trip was made to Converse College. It is expected that the French Club of Salem
will visit Davidson in February.

Davidson Library Now Offers New Features

An outstanding object of interest in the library at present is a wood carving by J. M. Walker of the
Sophomore class. The statue, suggested by Michael Angelo’s David, was carved by Walker during his Christmas holidays.

Among the new books in the library are: Brazilian Adventure, by Peter Fleming; Redman and Mory’s Romance of Research; Nature
Chats, by J. H. Furbay; A Daughter of the Medicis, by Prof. J. H. Mariejol; Peter Abelard, by Helen Waddell;
St. Augustine, by Rebecca West; William the Conqueror, by Phillips Russell; Knowing and Helping People, by H. W. Dresser; Adventures
of Ideas, by A. N. Whitehead; Treasure House of the Living Religions, by R. E. Hume; Nature Chats, by J.
H. Furbay; South America’s Story, by E. S. Eells; The City of the Sacred Well, by T. A. Willard; and
Set the Children Free!, by Fritz Withers.

In a recent issue of “The Ray,” official organ of Gamma Sigma Epsilon, national honorary chemical fraternity, there appeared an
article entitled “Notes on the Depression Flower,” by O. J. Thies, professor of chemistry at Davidson College. Gamma Sigma Epsilon
was founded at Davidson in 1919, and since that time it has grown steadily. In the last few years, especially,
the fraternity has shown a rapid growth in size, and interest of the members has shown a marked improvement.

Professor Thies is a member of the Executive Grand Council of the fraternity, and he has the distinction of being
the Senior Grand Officer of the fraternity in point of service. He was recently re-elected to the office of Grand
Keeper of the Kult, in which capacity he has served the fraternity during every biennium except that of 1929-31. With
one exception, Professor Thies holds the lowest initiation number of any member of the fraternity who is now actively engaged
in chemistry as a profession. Professor Thies has taken an active part in the work of the fraternity ever since
his initiation.

In preparing for his article on the depression flower, Professor Thies spent much time in research and study on the
subject. The following are a few excerpts from his thesis:

“A few months ago no home was complete without its depression flower. The craze for this flower-like chemical growth spread
from the home to the office, to the hospital, to the school room, and to the chemical laboratories.

Thies Writes On “Depression Flower” In Chemistry Journal

Local Professor Is Prominent Member of Chemistry Frat, Originally Founded at Davidson

Prof. O. J. Thies, of the Chemistry Department of Davidson College, who recently had an article in “The Ray,” official
journal of Gamma Sigma Epsilon, on “The Depression Flower.”

During these days the florist was well nigh forgotten, for, with a little water, coloring, bluing, and salt, and a
few pieces of coal, brick, or the like, anyone could boast of a beautiful, rapidly growing, intricately branching, multi-colored chemical
flower garden.

“With the coming of spring, and its (Continued on page 6)

Photographer Will Return February 7

Many Students to Have Their Pictures Taken

The annual photographer will be at Davidson the seventh and eighth of February. At this time the staff hopes to
complete the pictures for this year’s Quips and Cranks. Work on the book has progressed very rapidly and successfully thus
far. The Senior Section has already been completed. The staff is at present working on the Snap Shot Section, and
they are very anxious to receive any snap shots that the students might have.

On the seventh and eighth the photographer will take the remaining group pictures and the pictures of those students who
have not yet had them made. Many students have already signified their intention of having their pictures made at this
time by making appointments with members of the staff. It is requested that all students who intend to have their
pictures made see some member of the staff as soon as possible.

This year’s staff is anxious to have as many as is possible of the students’ pictures appearing in the book.
Therefore it is imperative that the staff know how many students intend to have photographs made, so that they can
be made with the least trouble during this short visit of the photographer.

Quadwranglers Discuss Methods of Education

On the evening of Thursday, January 25, the Quadwranglers held their regular meeting in their room in Chambers Building. Dr.
P. H. Gwynn gave a short address on “The Liberal Arts College,” quoting as authorities many prominent college presidents, educators,
and editors.

It would seem from Dr. Gwynn’s survey that sufficient emphasis is not placed on the instruction given to the small
percentage of real scholars in the student body of the average liberal arts college. In such colleges, at the present,
with their great “teaching loads,” the best that can be done is to aim at the average student. In some
instances, like Swarthmore College (Continued on page 2)

Students Offered Additional Courses

Harding and Douglas to Give New Classes

In addition to the courses given this past semester, several courses will be offered beginning with the opening of the
second semester.

Dr. Douglas will offer a course in Radio which will have for its prerequisite one semester of Physics, and will
offer three semester hours of credit without laboratory work. Four semester credit will be given if laboratory work is taken.

Dr. Harding will continue his course in History of Fine Arts. However, this course will take on a new phase
of work and new members of the class can begin work during the second semester without material loss in background.
The Greek Poets and the English Verse will also be offered, and scientific Greek will also be continued. If there
is sufficient demand a course in every-day Greek will be offered, having for its prerequisite two years of Greek.

T. W. Tingle Makes Trips During Exams

Attends Meetings in Winston-Salem and Washington

Dr. T. W. Lingle made trips to Winston-Salem and Washington, D. C., during examinations. He made the first trip to
Winston-Salem to speak to the Civitan Club at the Robert E. Lee Hotel on foreign relations of the American government.
The same evening he gave an address to the annual meeting of the board of directors of the Y. W.
C. A., at whose dinner about two hundred people attended.

Later in the week Dr. Lingle spent several days in Washington discussing some of our foreign problems, emphasizing World Court,
allied debts and our naval policy with England and Japan. This last topic he discussed at length with Congressman Vinson
of Georgia, chairman of the Committee on Naval Affairs of the House of Representatives. The naval bill presented by Mr.
Vinson is now being discussed in the House.

Dr. Lingle also discussed the problem of our relations of the World (Continued on page 2)

Louisiana, Historic Residence, Torn Down by C.W.A

Building Has Housed Six College Presidents and Two Professors

LANDMARK IN RUINS

Provides Material for Construction of Brick Walks

A landmark in this historic old town was destroyed this week. The near-century-old house in which over half of the
presidents of Davidson College lived during their terms today is only a pile of brick andShattered concrete. The old residence,
steeped in history and tradition, was destroyed to provide material for the construction of a brick walk in the city
of Davidson. The work was done by the Civil Works Administration. For as long as the oldest person in Davidson
can remember, the old house has stood opposite the northwest corner of the campus, surrounded by trees and in a
virtual state of ruin. Directly across the highway stands Shearer Hall, constructed partially from the old chapel, which was built
at Davidson in the forties, when the school was still in its infancy. The old structure which housed so many
of Davidson's leaders was built in 1848, at the then exorbitant cost of $2,100, and was occupied in 1849, when
the college was just twelve years old, by the second president of the institution, Dr. Samuel Williamson. The only other
buildings on the campus at this time were the chapel, the literary society halls, still standing, and five dormitories, low
rambling brick buildings, two of which are still in use at Davidson. Following Dr. Williamson, five other (Continued on page
6)

Psychology Society Discusses Reflexes

W. T. Thompson Makes Principal Talk at Meeting

“The Conditioned Reflex” was the subject for discussion at the regular meeting of Omega Phi Alpha, the philosophy and psychology
group, held at Social Center Friday evening a fortnight ago, at which Jack Williams, Jr., the president of the chapter,
presided. W. Taliaferro Thompson gave a discussion of “The Conditioned Reflex,” his contribution representing a close study of this phenomenon.
He showed that the salivation produced in Pavlov's dogs is not a reflex in the physiological sense of a simple
isolated response to a simple stimulus. He continued by saying that if the Pavlovian studies are taken as indicating most
accurately the nature of a conditioned reflex, the reflex, then, is a response which resembles the unconditioned one. He next
examined the factors which affect the stability of the conditioned response once it has been developed. He pointed out that
much human learning, whether it be learning nonsense syllables in the laboratory or safety habits in crossing the street, remains
stable because it serves to satisfy the individual’s desires. Thompson concluded his remarks by announcing that if this examination is
accurate, the conditioned reflex reveals the primary and secondary factors involved in all learning. Following this there was a general
discussion of the topic, in which each member present took part. Other subjects discussed were Gestalt psychology and the errors
in critiques of the Gestalt theories, and mesmerism. After the program a social hour was enjoyed, in which refreshments consisting
of tea, cheese sandwiches, and olives were served. More than ordinary interest has been manifested in the club this year,
and President Williams says that he is anxious to stimulate interest in further research in these fields. At the next
business meeting, the club will vote on new members. Membership in the club is restricted to those who have taken
advanced courses in philosophy and psychology and have proved themselves unusually proficient only in these subjects.

Grades

The first semester grades will be sent out about the middle of this week, according to an announcement from the
registrar's office. All grades this year will be sent out from the registrar's office in accordance with the faculty ruling
to that effect. One copy of the grades will be sent to the student’s home, and each student will receive
the other copy through the mail.

Dr. Macartney Will Give Otts Lectures

Pittsburgh Minister to Speak on Christian Faith

The lectures on the Otts Foundation at Davidson College will be delivered this year by Rev. Clarence Edward Macartney, D.D.,
pastor of the First Presbyterian Church, Pittsburgh, Pa. His general theme will be “Christian Faith and the Spirit of the
Age.” Specific lectures under this general theme will be given as follows: The Christian Book—Tuesday, February 13, at 10:15 a.m.;
The Christian Way—Wednesday, February 14, at 10:15 a.m.; The Christian Act—Thursday, February 15, at 10:15 a.m.; The Christian Destiny—Friday, February
16, at 10:15 a.m. While the lectures are intended primarily for the students, they are open to the public. All
lectures will begin promptly at 10:15 a.m. Dr. Macartney is distinguished both as a preacher and as an author. He
has the gift of presenting the great teachings of Christianity with clarity and power. He has held the highest offices
in the Presbyterian Church, U.S.A., having been Moderator of the General Assembly of that Church a few years ago. Some
of the lecturers on the Otts Foundation in the past were as follows: Dr. J. M. P. Otts, Dr. R.
L. Dabney, Dr. J. B. Shearer, Dr. Walter W. Moore, and Dr. Harris E. Kirk.

Freshmen Balloting For Senior Advisor

Powell, Rives and Lafferty Lead in Early Vote

E. L. Powell, C. M. Rives, and J. W. Lafferty led in the election of the senior adviser to the
freshmen as the ballots counted Monday. The final elections will be run off later in the week, the results of
which will appear in the next issue of The Davidsonian. Names appearing on the first ballot were Boggs Corbin, Mack
Holland, J. W. Lafferty, A. B. McLain, E. L. Powell, Lanier Pratt, C. M. Rives, Alec Schenck, and Eb Willson.
An amendment added to the constitution a few years ago forbids the election of freshman officers. However, the first-year men
are allowed to select an adviser from the Senior class who shall preside over the class until it is organized
and shall serve as mediator between the freshmen and upperclassmen. The class will organize in the early spring when it
elects the president of its Sophomore class. The class will then receive its right to vote, as it cannot do
so until formally organized.

Projects Carried Out By C.W.A. in Davidson

In conjunction with the CWA work being done all over the United States under the auspices of President Roosevelt’s new
deal, the town of Davidson has recently seen the start of several improvements within the town limits. Dr. J. M.
McConnell, dean of the Davidson faculty, has been serving this winter on the County Federal Relief Committee. This committee advises
with Mr. Charles F. Gilmore, administrator of federal relief and CWA projects in Mecklenburg County. At the request of the
mayor and the town council of Davidson, several CWA projects are being carried out in Davidson at the present time.

Debaters Planning Difficult Schedule For Winter Tours

Three Teams to Make Southern, Northern and Western Tours

FIVE HOME DEBATES

Debaters Undertaking Unusually Pretentious Schedule

The Davidson College debating team has secured debates with sixteen prominent universities and colleges of the South, North and East,
according to J. Humphrey, president of the Forensic Council of Davidson. G. H. Brown, Hackinsack, N. J., and Rawling Pratt-Thomas,
Wedgefield, S. C., will leave February 19 for a Southern tour, meeting the University of Georgia on February 19, the
University of Florida on February 21, the University of Miami on February 24, and the College of Charleston on February
27. E. J. Humphrey, Wilmington, and R. H. Smith, Mobile, Ala., will begin a Northern tour on March 14, encountering
Washington and Lee on March 14, Rutgers University on March 19, the University of Richmond on March 22 and Bucknell
University on March 20. J. H. Fitzgerald, Crewe, Va., and W. T. Goodykoontz, Bluefield, W. Va., will meet Sewanee University
on March 5, Kentucky University on March 7, and Centre College on March 9, on a Western trip. Davidson will
meet the following teams at home: University of Florida on April 12, Washington and Lee University on March 27, the
University of Richmond on April 10, and Bucknell University on March 23. The date of the home debate with Sewanee
University has not been definitely set as yet. This year’s schedule is the most pretentious one that the Forensic Council
has ever undertaken. Both from the standpoint of quantity and quality, this year’s line-up is bigger and better than all
previous ones. To the list of colleges and universities debated against last season, the following notable additions have been made:
University of Georgia, Washington and Lee, Kentucky University, the University of Miami, and Centre College.

Mock Trial Is Held By Military Society

Captain Powell Sentenced to Confinement to Post

The senior members of the Davidson College Chapter of Scabbard and Blade held a mock court martial in the Quadrangle
room, on January 9. The court was conducted in the same manner as a regulation general military court. The defendant,
Captain E. L. Powell, was accused of four separate charges, which were as follows: attempt to create mutiny, conduct unbecoming
to an officer and gentleman, neglecting his duty, and violation of the 96th article of War. The defense for the
council was Captain and Adjutant E. J. Humphrey, who was assisted by First Lieutenant Drake. The prosecuting attorney, or (Continued
on page 6)

Two Men Initiated by I.R.C. at Last Meeting

The Davidson Chapter of International Relations Club, national honorary fraternity, held a meeting Friday, January 12, in the Phi Hall.
Two new members, Warner DuBose and Charles Lucas, were initiated at this time. DuBose gave a paper on Treaty Revision,
and Lucas gave one on Russian Recognition. Fred Smyre gave an interesting account of his and Skip Brown's trip to
Winthrop College for the meeting of the Model League of Nations. The Southeastern Conference of I. R. C. will be
held at the State Teachers College in Hattiesburg, Miss., from February 22 through 24. It was not definitely decided whether
to send a Davidson delegate or not. A feed was given after the meeting adjourned. The date of the next
meeting has not yet been decided upon.
