THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 17, 1934

FORENSIC GROUP HOLD INITIATION

Alpha Phi Epsilon Gives Feed Following Meeting

The Phi Chapter of the Alpha Phi Epsilon, national honorary forensic fraternity, held its first meeting of the year at
10:00 P.M., Thursday, October 11, in the Phi Gamma Delta house for the purpose of deciding on the plans for
the year and to formally initiate Don Bailey into the Chapter.

Don Bailey, who was issued a bid previously, was taken through the formal ceremonies of the Chapter Thursday night, which
are necessary to become an active member. After the initiation, Bailey was requested to give a five-minute talk on a
subject of paramount importance, “Terpsichorean Activities As Observed at the Famous Ritz Club in Charlotte.” Pleading that he had no
experience and insufficient knowledge of the subject, he announced his intentions to retire but was prompted by the older members
to give a detailed account of the Ritz Club social functions on Saturday nights.

In regard to the plans of the Alpha Phi Epsilon fraternity, R. H. Smith, Jr., president, stated, “A committee has
been appointed for the purpose of drawing up concrete plans as to the method Alpha Phi Epsilon will pursue in
becoming active and interesting during the coming year.” A tentative schedule of the trips to be taken to universities and
colleges throughout the States by members of the debating team will be drawn up in the near future.

A brief talk was made by Walter Sprunt, Jr., on the “Public Speaking Course” taken during the past summer at
the Columbia University Summer School. He explained the correct etiquette applied by leading orators and debaters as taught at Columbia
University. Two other short impromptu speeches were delivered by Bob Coit and Mims Rogers on the outstanding books and magazines
read during the summer. A detailed account of several books on Philosophy composed Coit’s talk while Rogers gave a concise
resume of the new book, Stars Fall on Alabama, which was published recently.

All the student members of Alpha Phi Epsilon fraternity attended the feed, presented by the Chapter. The feed, which took
place after the regular business of the Chapter had terminated, consisted of sandwiches, cakes, and other dainties.

The Phi Chapter of Alpha Phi Epsilon was founded at Davidson in 1923 to succeed the old “Gravel and Forum
Club,” which had existed as a forensic organization for some years. Bids are issued twice a year to men who
show exceptional ability and interest in public speaking on the campus. The debating team, literary societies, and Y. M. C.
A. workers are represented. Notable orators are issued bids to this fraternity also. Meetings are held once a month which
have proved valuable in stimulating interest in forensic development, both in regard to the individual members and to the student
body.

The present student members of the Alpha Phi Epsilon fraternity are: R. H. Smith, Jr., president, Warner DuBose, vice-president, D.
R. Brandon, secretary-treasurer, G. H. Brown, D. B. Bailey, R. T. Coit, P. M. Rogers, W. P. Sprunt, Jr., and
A. C. Stutts.

The forensic society members have complete charge of selecting the Freshman debating team and selecting members for the Varsity team.
Alpha Phi Epsilon fraternity sponsors a series of talks by visiting speakers on questions of today during the second semester
of each year.

Richmond Pastor Will Conduct Fall Services

Dr. J. Blanton Belk, pastor of Grace Covenant Church in Richmond, Va., will conduct the Fall Services, which begin Sunday,
October 28, and end Wednesday night, October 31. Dr. Belk attended Davidson for two years and finished his college work
at the University of South Carolina. He is outstanding as a minister and as an authority on present-day religious questions.
Dr. Thompson praised him highly at vespers last Sunday night. He was also praised highly by all those who have
had the privilege of hearing him preach. Dr. Belk is pastor of one of the largest and most active churches
in Richmond, Va. He is an unusually good speaker and he holds an especial appeal for young people. He is
in great demand and Davidson is among those who are fortunate in securing his services.

Miss Lois Neal Hamilton, a senior at Converse College, is one of two delegates from Converse attending a meeting of
the National Confederation of American Students, this week in Chicago.

Among the GREEKS

SIGMA PHI EPSILON: The N. C. Epsilon chapter had its first feed Sunday, October 14th. A number of the faculty
attended. Five men were initiated during the last week. They were George Kuykendall, Jack Jenkins, Jeff Moore, Pierson Hassell, and
William Black. Another man to join the Freshmen pledge group was Henry Lyons.

PHI DELTA THETA: A feed was also enjoyed by the members of this fraternity last Sunday night. A few visitors
were here over the weekend including John Lafferty, an alumnus. A new walk was recently completed which has improved the
conditions and looks of the front yard.

PI KAPPA PHI: Most of the members of the fraternity were in attendance at a party given Saturday night, October
13th. Jon Boyd and Chink Anderson, alumni of the Pi Kappa Phi, were guests.

SIGMA ALPHA EPSILON: A few visitors were down for the weekend, among whom was Henry Bridges of Atlanta.

PHI GAMMA DELTA: A feed was enjoyed Sunday night by nearly all of the Delta Kappa chapter. The pledge group
gave a short play beforehand. Dr. Lingle was a guest at the social. J. Wilson from Winston-Salem was a visitor.

Nine Men Accept Bids To Sigma Upsilon Frat

The following men have accepted bids to membership in Sigma Upsilon, honorary fraternity composed of those distinguished in literary activities:
Allen, Donegan, Horine, R. B. Lindsay, B. O. Ravenel, Ross, Scott, Sutton, and J. A.

French Club Sends Bids To Eight Men

Cercle Francais Planning Extensive Program For Its Members

Each of the bids extended to eight members of the Student Body by the Cercle Francais was accepted and the
initiates are now working on a French play entitled, “CEUX QUI PASSENT,” to be given on Tuesday, Oct. 23, the
initiatory evening. Bids were offered to students who excel in the mastery of the French language and who continue in
advanced French. The Cercle Francais annually offers bids to certain students in advanced French for their achievement here at Davidson.
This year the Cercle Francais is planning...An extensive program for its members. Trips to Winthrop, Converse, W.C.U.N.C., and others are
in the offing. This year the Cercle Francais is headed by the following: Bob Coit, President; Archie Coleman, Vice-President; Harvey
Glass, Secretary-Treasurer. Bids have been extended to and accepted by the following: Val Cassels, Jim Cothran, Woodrow Hassell, Carlyle Lewis,
John McMullen, Bill Pierce, Jimmy Simpson, and Tom Wood.

Yowl To Make Year’s Debut Near Nov. First

The first issue of the Yowl, under the 1934-35 staff, will be presented to the student body on or about
November 1, as announced by Lorenzo McPhail, editor. The script for the first issue was turned over to the printers
on Tuesday. The magazine this year is expected to be much improved over recent years due mainly to the variety
which the book will contain. The first-year men have furnished an abundance of artistic attempts plus the essays, jokes, and
poetry which the old men have contributed in great part.

Y.M.C.A. News

STUDENT VOLUNTEER: The Student Volunteer Group initiated a series of four meetings at Mitchell College last Sunday evening, in which
Dr. Ernest Thompson’s book “Presbyterian Missions In The Southern United States” is being reviewed. Jim Ficklen, Sid Marsh, and Hervey
Ross conducted the meeting, each making a short talk on different aspects of the general work of the Presbyterian Church
in the South. During the next three consecutive Sundays, special phases of this work will be studied in detail. The
Student Volunteers are interested in all aspects of active Christianity, particularly in missionary work. Meetings are held each Sunday afternoon
at two o'clock in the Social Center, and all those who take an interest in such work are encouraged to
attend. Rev. P. Smith, a returned missionary from Africa, will address the group next Sunday afternoon.

SOCIAL CENTER: The Y sincerely hopes that the student body will take advantage of the opportunity to use the Social
Center at any time, especially during weekends of games. Fires will be made during these weekends and we want the
students to feel free to bring their family and friends around after the game. If anyone wishes to be sure
about it and make arrangements beforehand to have a room ready, he should see Albert McClure and he will be
glad to make proper arrangements.

It has been estimated recently that there are still more than four million illiterates in America, despite the great efforts
made to educate the people of the nation.

To prepare women of Chile for their newly acquired right to vote, the University of Chile has inaugurated courses in
public affairs.

The fraternity meets bi-weekly and has as one of its main features the promotion of faculty-student understanding. Membership is open
only to upperclassmen, and bids are usually limited to members of the Junior and Senior classes.

Carolina Lunch

EVERYTHING right is our greatest advertisement.

Hot Dogs
Hamburgers
Sandwiches
Cold Drinks

Now Open

Ideal Barber Shop
In Back Of Norton’s Barber Shop
Next to Ray Harrison's Hotel
Shave 15c
Haircut 25c
“Come give us a trial”

Charlotte Sunday Observer For Sale

Chesterfield: the cigarette that TASTES BETTER © 1934, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.

WABC-CBS To Feature D’Anna’s Concert Band

The Carborundum Band, conducted by Edward D’Anna, a Columbia network feature for several seasons, will begin a new series of
concerts over a nationwide WABC-CBS network Saturday, October 20. It will be heard each week from 10 to 10:30 P.M.,
Eastern Standard Time, under the sponsorship of the Carborundum Company of Niagara Falls, N.Y., manufacturers of abrasive materials. In the
new series, the band will be heard on the Pacific Coast for the first time. The band is unique among
radio and concert organizations, composed almost entirely of amateur musicians, only four of the artists being professionals. Most of the
musicians have been playing together for almost thirty years. Francis D. Bowman is the announcer, narrator, and research director and
will feature each week an authentic Indian legend, the first of which will be drawn from the tribal tales of
the Iroquois. The “Voice of Niagara,” a broadcast of the actual roar of the great falls, will be featured again
in several of the season’s programs.

Glenn Cunningham, famed University of Kansas (Lawrence) miler, will enter the University of California this fall, where he will assist
Brutus Hamilton, California coach. He will serve without pay so that he may preserve his amateur standing.

AT THE LOCAL THEATRES

Friday and Saturday, Oct. 19 and 20
BELLE OF THE NINETIES

Mae West has returned again in another of her characteristic performances. She is supported in the cast by John Mack
Brown, John Miljan, and Catherine DeMille. Duke Ellington's band furnishes the music. Mae sings several of the current song hits.

Monday and Tuesday, Oct. 22 and 23
KANSAS CITY PRINCESS

This is another hilarious performance by those two stars Joan Blondell and Glenda Farrell. They get in many jams as
usual but manage to get out on top. The cast includes Robert Armstrong, Hugh Herbert, and Osgood Perkins.

Part-time jobs financed by the Federal Emergency Relief Administration will help 100,000 needy young men and women to finance their
higher education this year.

Some of the buildings which house the North American College (Rome, Italy) date back to 1604.

Stuffy Head

Just a few drops up each nostril. Quickly, breathing again becomes clear!

Davidson Theatre

From time to time we tell you facts about Chesterfield Cigarettes. We say that Chesterfields are different from other cigarettes—that
the tobaccos are different, the paper is different, and the way they are made is different. Everything that modern Science
knows about or that money can buy is used in making Chesterfield a milder, better-tasting cigarette—a cigarette that Satisfies. You
can prove what we tell you about Chesterfield. May we ask you to try them—that would seem to be fair
enough.

KOSTELANETZ ORCHESTRA AND CHORUS

MONDAY WEDNESDAY SATURDAY
ROSA PONSELLE NINO MARTINI GRETE STUECKGOLD
9 P.M. (E.S.T.) — COLUMBIA NETWORK
