THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 25, 1934

RETIRING OFFICERS YIELD POSITIONS
(Continued from page 1)

Next on the program were W. M. Thompson and Walter Sprunt, retiring and incoming presidents of the Y. M. C.
A. Thompson stated that he and the old cabinet had accepted their leadership with a deep sense of responsibility. He
felt that progress had been made and he was “confident that under the new leaders there would be real advances
in Christian work on the campus.” He closed by presenting a Bible to Walter Sprunt as a symbol of Y.
M. C. A. ideals. Sprunt said that his work would be particularly difficult because of the high type of work
which the Y. M. C. A. attempts to accomplish and because of the “distinguished and loyal service which Wee Thompson
has rendered.”

Eb Willson, retiring president of the Athletic Association, and A. J. Potter, president-elect, were next on the program. Willson expressed
his hope of having done work by which Davidson would benefit and his confidence in the new president. Potter spoke
of the Davidson fighting spirit. He ended with: “We feel that if we are able to keep up this spirit,
as it has been kept up this year, our main objective will be accomplished.”

Odi Casali and K. D. Weeks, retiring and incoming editors of the Davidsonian, were next on the program. Casali extended
thanks to those men who worked on the paper. He thanked the student body for the co-operation and congratulated them
on their election of Weeks, to whom he gave a copy of the Davidsonian, which was significant of the turning
over of duties to the new editor. Weeks congratulated Casali for his fine work. He stated that he and the
staff will try to make the paper “aggressive, representative of the students, and the voice of the students.”

Jack Williams, editor of the Annual, and Bob Smith, editor-elect, were next on the platform. Williams stated that he was
confident in turning over the work to so capable a man. Smith expressed his appreciation to the student body for
the trust reposed in him, and pledged that with the support of the new staff every effort would be made
to “produce an annual typical of '35.”

Bill Fugate and Lorenzo McPhail, editors retiring and elect of the Yowl, were next in order. Fugate stated that the
Yowl is truly a “magazine of purity.” He added that McPhail would have the Yowl in its formative period, it
being only four years old, and still young and unsophisticated. McPhail expressed his appreciation for being awarded such an honor.

Charlie Rives and Johnny Mackorell, old and new captains of the football team, were next on the program. Rives thanked
the student body for its support of this year’s football team. Mackorell retaliated by reminding the student body of the
very enviable record established under the capable leadership of Rives.

Mack Holland, retiring “D” Club president, and Dewey Hutchins, incoming president, were next on the program. Holland expressed regret at
retiring from his office. He pointed out that the “D” Club had extended itself to a wider field which would
be hard to cover. Hutchins stated that formerly the “D” Club has been regarded merely as a figurehead, but that
it is hoped that by the proper execution of its by-laws of the new constitution to establish an organization which
will not only be helpful to the spirit of the school but to the individual as well.

Fred Smyre, retiring Senior class president, and Charlie Harris, vice-president-elect, who took Fred McPhail’s place during his absence, were last
on the program. Smyre spoke of the ideals of the college and the philosophy of life that college gives. He
closed by turning over the gavel to Harris. Harris accepted the gift on behalf of the class of 1935, and
led the audience in “O Davidson.”

NEW MEMBERS OF STUDENT COUNCIL
(Continued from page 1)

Council to receive, refer and try any charges against a student for violation of any provisions of the Constitution. They
shall investigate rumors injurious to the good name of the Student Body or any member thereof. At all times they
shall strive toward the improvement of conditions upon the campus.”

The members of the Student Council who were just elected succeed this year’s council, which was composed of the following
men: The senior members were J. W. West, president of the Student Body; F. L. Smyre, president of the Senior
class; J. M. Holland, Jr., A. H. Manson, A. B. McLean, J. W. Lafferty, and W. T. Thompson. The juniors
were K. D. Weeks, president of the Junior class; G. H. Brown, W. P. Sprunt, and D. M. Glasgow. The
sophomores were R. B. Richardson, president of the Sophomore class; P. C. Pittman, and J. H. Glass.

The new Student Councilmen were installed last Friday evening, and immediately thereafter they took up their new duties. They will
serve until student body elections are completed next spring.

BROWN ELECTED HEAD OF FORENSIC COUNCIL
(Continued from page 1)

ings of the students in the form of “bull sessions” to discuss important questions of the day. He plans to
inaugurate this system, with the aid of the Forensic Council members, in order to have more members of the Council
taking an active part in the activities of this group.

SUMMER SCHOOL WILL BEGIN JUNE ELEVENTH
(Continued from page 1)

so that the afternoons will be free for recreation and study. Courses will be arranged this year so that students
can take one semester of two different subjects or two semesters of one subject. Six semester hours is the maximum
credit that can be obtained in one summer school session, except in cases where students are taking sciences. “Considerable interest
has been shown in the Davidson summer school session by the Davidson students and students of other colleges,” stated Professor
Fleagle.

BOWERY BALL ENDS BRILLIANT WEEK-END
(Continued from page 1)

provided music for the set of dances, and their clever novelty numbers won much applause from the audience. Following is
a list of the girls who attended the dances and house parties:

Beta Theta Pi: Sarah Finger, Pauline Neisler, Kings Mountain; Alice Cowles Barringer, Charlotte.
Pi Kappa Alpha: Sarah Metz, Jane Pirie, Emma Wrenn Jones, Charlotte; Isabel Wright,Concord; Dougie Long, Greensboro; Garnelle Rainey, Salisbury; Laura
Lyon, Durham; Frances Stough, Davidson; Margaret Huester, Bluefield, W. Va.

Kappa Alpha: Mary Lib Sanders, Roxboro; Sarah Vondiver, Anderson, S. C.; Eleanor Hays, Amelia Webb, Charlotte; Lydia Stewart, Charlotte; Marty
Houstan, Chester, Pa.; Libby Rhett, Davidson.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon: Jane Hashagen, Gastonia; Martha Burnett, Martha Moore, Atlanta; Florine Ellis, Greenville, S. C.; Bobby Bennett, Greer, S.
C.; Betty Smart, Bettie Long, Helen Fritts, Chattanooga, Tenn.; Frances Hart, Columbia, S. C.; Alice Bartwright, Wilmington, N. C.; Estelle
Follins, Winston-Salem; Cynthia Barnes, Anderson, S. C.

Kappa Sigma: Betty Gray, Ann West, Gastonia; Mervine Garrett, Margaret Knight, Adelaide Fortune, Greensboro; Evelyn Meisenheimer, Salisbury; Mary McBrayer, Charlotte;
Clara Margaret Grantham, Raleigh.

Pi Kappa Phi: Mary Clara Stokes, Wilson; Anna Mae Feuchtenberger, Risque Meem, Bluefield, W. Va.; Betsy Fry, Augusta, Ga.; Virginia
Gravely, Monroe; Carlynn Council, Wadesboro; Corinne Ellison, Lancaster, S. C.; Florence Greis, Ocean City, Md.

Phi Gamma Delta: Miriam Steele, Charlotte; Dot Hines, Greensboro; Betty Lewis, Chapel Hill; Louisa Rankin, Wilhelmina Monroe, Fayetteville; Speas Coppage,
Nashville, N. C.; Betty Lewis, Chattanooga, Tenn.; Lois Nickey, Memphis, Tenn.; Margery Robbins, Lowell.

Phi Delta Theta: Susan Petty, Greenwood, Miss.; Rhett Redfern, Monroe; Caroline Vener, Spartanburg; Ann Purnell, Lib Ray, Lois Monroe, Charlotte;
Mary Ann Sides, Asheville; May Potter, Norfolk; Marjorie Robinson, Lowell.

Sigma Phi Epsilon: Margaret McLeod, Darlington, S. C.; Caroline Shields, Waycross, Ga.; Peggy Dozier, Eleanor Killeck, Kitty Vaneschop, Jean Boyle,
Charlotte; Jean Ware, Kings Mountain; Dot Tarleton, Charlottesville, Va.

STUDENTS ORGANIZE PHOTOGRAPHY CLUB
(Continued from page 1)

At the initial meeting, E. R. Motley, of the Sophomore class, was elected president of the group. Details for the
organization are yet to be worked out, but it has been decided that no dues will be charged, but each
member will be required to pay for the materials which he uses in his work. The meetings of the club
will be devoted to the discussion of photographic subjects and the criticism of individual pictures.

LITTLE TO INSPECT DAVIDSON R. O. T. C.
(Continued from page 1)

The battalion has been issued new uniforms of a lighter material than usual, and should, according to Colonel Rhett, make
a good showing on the field. Colonel Little will find himself no stranger on the Davidson campus, as this will
be his second annual inspection of the Davidson battalion. He is stationed at Winston-Salem.

DAVIDSON WILDCATS LOSE THREE GAMES
(Continued from page 4)

Played here, the Deacons, led by the pitching of Gaddy and Herring, chalked up their second straight victory over the
Wildcats. Wake Forest batters tapped Jack Jenkins of Davidson for 10 safe blows, while the Wildcats succeeded in getting only
seven off the two Deacon hurlers. The Wake Forest team started off in the first inning by scoring two runs
on four hits. They got one run in the third and another in the fourth inning to put the game
on ice.

VARSITY AND FROSH WIN OVER VA. TECH
(Continued from page 4)

100-yard dash—Turner (V. P. I.), first; Dickson (D.), second; Stites (V. P. I.). Time: 10.1.
Mile run—Brown (D.), first; Clark (D.), second; Stutemyer (V. P. I.). Time: 5.09.
220-yard dash—Turner (V. P. I.), first; Melton (D.), second; Stites (V. P. I.). Time: 22.2.
High hurdles—McMullen (V. P. I.), first; Dickson (D.), second; Holbertson (V. P. I.). Time: 16.3.
440-yard dash—Gladden (D.), first; Cox (D.), second; Stites (V. P. I.). Time: 56.2.
Low hurdles—McMullen (V. P. I.), first; Melton (D.), second; Holberton (V. P. I.). Time: 25.9.
880-yard run—Brown (D.), first; Martin (V. P. I.), second; Cox (D.). Time: 2.09.
Shot put—Wilson (V. P. I.), first; Simpson (V. P. I.), second; Johnson (D.). Distance: 44 feet, 11 1/4 inches.
Discus—Johnson (D.), first; Riner (V. P. I.), second; Wilson (V. P. I.). Distance: 107 feet, 4 3/4 inches.
Javelin—Johnston (D.), first; Shafer (V. P. I.), second; Moffett (D.). Distance: 146 feet, 6 inches.
Pole vault—Shafer (V. P. I.), first; Purdy (D.), second; Adkinson (V. P. I.). Height: 11 feet.
High jump—Osborne (V. P. I.), and Dickson (D.), tied for first; Melton (D.), and Shafer (V. P. I.), (tie). Height:
5 feet, 4 inches.
Broad jump—Johnson (D.), first; Dickson (D.), second; Melton (D.). Distance: 19 feet 8 3/4 inches.

NEW PUBLICATIONS MANAGERS CHOSEN
(Continued from page 1)

The general work of the organization has been carried on in a businesslike manner. A meeting will be called soon
by the present members of the board and the newly-elected business managers to discuss with the faculty various problems confronting
the publications for next year. The faculty advisors are Professor F. K. Fleagle and Mr. F. L. Jackson, treasurer of
the college. New members of the Publications Board are to be elected this week. Two men from each publication have
been nominated and the student body will be called on to elect one of these men from each group. Those
eligible for membership are: Bob Smith and Sam Eaton of “Quips and Cranks,” Lorenzo McPhail and Ben Wyche of the
“Yowl,” and K. D. Weeks and J. A. C. Wadsworth of “The Davidsonian.”

Garland Court - Attention! Order Your Personal Engraved Cards Now. Twenty Styles to Pick From. See: Bill Johnson—203 Watts. Standard
Printing Company.

DAVIDSON STUDENTS SPECIAL PRICE FOR CHARLOTTE, N.C.

© 1934, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.

This reel of cigarette paper is sufficient to make 42,000 Chesterfield Cigarettes. It is of the finest manufacture. In texture,
in burning quality, in purity, it is as good as money can buy. Cut open a Chesterfield cigarette. Remove the
tobacco and hold the paper up to the light. If you know about paper, you will at once note the
uniform texture—no holes, no light and dark places. Note also its dead white color. If the paper is made right—that
is, uniform—the cigarettes will burn more evenly. If the paper is made right—there will be no odor from the burning
paper. Other manufacturers use good cigarette paper; but there is no better paper made than that used on Chesterfields. You
can count on that!

Chesterfield
the cigarette that's MILDER
the cigarette that TASTES BETTER
