THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 7, 1934

REV. WALKER TALKS AT SUNDAY VESPERS

Davidson Students Have Opportunity to Feel Fellowship of Christ

STEELE CREEK PASTOR

“Separated to the Gospel” Is the Speaker’s Subject

“The world needs men who are consecrated to the gospel of God,” said Rev. J. M. Walker, speaking at vespers on Sunday evening. “You who live here on the hill have the opportunity to achieve a strong fellowship with Christ, which will lead you to positions of leadership in any walk of life,” he added.

Rev. Mr. Walker is the pastor of the Steele Creek Presbyterian Church, which is the largest country church in the Synod of North Carolina, and has one of the largest congregations of any church in the South. He spoke on the subject of being separated to the gospel of God, quoting as his text from Paul's letter to the Philippians. Paul, he said, spoke of his call to the ministry as being separated to the gospel of God. Paul often referred to the gospel through all of his letters. The word is many times mentioned throughout the Bible, in connection with the early life of Christ, the period of His ministry, and the years of teaching by His disciples.

One of the outstanding qualities of all great Christian leaders of any age has been their high sense of their calling. They have, without exception, recognized their fellowship with Christ and their separation to the gospel of God. We have every opportunity here at Davidson to feel the fellowship of Christ. We have Christian influences here which afford an opportunity to draw near to Christ and to learn to have closer fellowship with Him. After training in a Christian college we will be expected to bring to the world a better understanding of Christ and Christian principles. If we expect to achieve leadership in any profession or work we might go into, we shall need the gospel. Rev. Mr. Walker said he believed we were entering on a new era in which Christian principles will be applied to business, economics, and life in general, and that we should take the opportunity we have here to prepare ourselves to help bring on the new day.

“Have you men who live here on the hill complete fellowship with Christ?” asked Mr. Walker. “Are you giving Him His due share of your lives, your minds, and your prayers?

“There are men whom we know today who are living editions of Christ,” said the speaker. He mentioned among others Brother Bryan of the Third Presbyterian Church, Birmingham, Ala., whose biography, “Religion in Shoes,” is to appear soon, and which was recently reviewed by Dr. Lingle. Brother Bryan is known to many of the students here, and the illustrations from his biography were appreciated.

Rev. Walker also spoke of Dr. Graham, who was the pastor of the College Church in his day. Dr. Wilson, missionary to Korea, was also mentioned as one of the foremost Christians of our day, and one who would long be remembered for his services to mankind.

The vesper program was in charge of Ben Rose. The meeting was opened by singing of the hymn, “He Leadeth Me.” The scripture, the first eleven verses of Philippians, was read by Rose. This was followed by prayer by A. A. Gammon and W. C. Neill. D. P. McLain rendered a vocal solo. The meeting was closed with the singing of “Seal Us, O Holy Spirit.”

GOOD BUSINESS

It’s always good business to be well dressed. To be sure of yourself... to be sure of your clothes—their fit—their style—their fabric. Our business is to make the kind of clothes you can be sure of—correctly styled, faultlessly tailored to your exact measure. Over 400 fabrics to select from. Come in and see them.

THE STORRS-SCHAEFER COMPANY

Will Be Here Monday and Tuesday March 12 and 13

T. HOOKE McCALLIE and BILL JOHNSON Representatives

Spring Festivities Planned By Frats

Local Chapters Are to Celebrate Junior Speaking

BETA THETA PI

The sophomores of the Beta Theta Pi fraternity entertained the chapter Saturday night with a smoker and feed. Tom Ross, who was president of the pledges last year, had charge of the affair. This occasion marked the first anniversary of the present sophomore group’s initiation into the Beta chapter. Plans for the banquet to be given during the Junior Speaking celebration are being completed by Rawling Pratt-Thomas. This will be held at Ivey's Dining Room following the tea dance on the 24th.

PI KAPPA PHI

The Epsilon Chapter of Pi Kappa Phi announces the pledging of Harmon Woodward of Bluefield, W. Va., on March 1. The Pi Kappa Phi’s are to have a banquet in the restaurant of Efird’s in Charlotte, on Saturday night of the coming dances.

PI KAPPA ALPHA

The sixty-sixth anniversary of the founding of Pi Kappa Alpha social fraternity was celebrated at Chapel Hill last week. The Tau Chapter at the University acted as host. Blanton Little, Henry Hodgin, Walter Ogburn, Frank Cade, and Hiram Grantham represented the Beta Chapter of Davidson College. At a recent election of officers, Blanton Little was elected president; Charlie Harris, vice-president; Henry Hodgin, secretary, and William Archer, sergeant-at-arms. A house party will be given on March 10. Many visitors are expected to attend from the neighboring towns.

SIGMA ALPHA EPSILON

Hoke Robinson and Harvey Wilson Moore, Charlotte, were initiated into the Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity on February 22, and were unintentionally omitted from the list of initiates published last week.

DAVIDSON’S CONCERT BAND

Tomorrow night at 8 o'clock, Davidson’s Concert Band will open its season with a concert. Although there will be no admission charge, a free-will offering will be taken at the close.used for band uniforms. Davidson’s Concert Band, shown program in Chambers Auditorium. No charge for the concert, a free- close of the program, the proceeds ally omitted from the last issue of The Davidsonian.

PHI GAMMA DELTA
Last Saturday night the Phi Gam’s had a feed. At that time it was decided that they would entertain their “dates” at the S & W on the afternoon of the 24th. The “Pills Brothers” have been engaged to furnish the entertainment during the evening. An owl flew into the chapter house the other day. Members of the chapter are firmly convinced that it is a good omen, for on their coat-of-arms is an owl.

SIGMA PHI EPSILON
The members of the Senior class were entertained by Professor and Mrs. John T. Kimbrough at their home here last Tuesday. A buffet supper was served. The North Carolina Epsilon Chapter of Davidson announces the pledging of Marshall Dilling from Gastonia. Upon observing the notice, “Dates Signed for English Examinations,” a student at the University of California remarked, “There are hardly any more functions here where a man can go stag.”

Battalion Routed By Invisible Opponents
Frigid Forces of Ice King Attack Local Unit
The forces of King Winter arrayed themselves in gallant fashion here last Wednesday and made an unmerciful attack upon the Davidson R. O. T. C. unit as it held its weekly parade. The extremely cold wind which lasted for several days and caused considerable damage on the campus, swept across the unsheltered parade ground and enveloped the whole battalion in an icy atmosphere. Red faces and numb hands were much in evidence, especially among members of the band, whose hands unwillingly held their frigid metal instruments in a vain attempt to produce something like the customary military musical notes. Many members had quite a time making their fingers perform with the precision and quickness necessary for the producing of harmonious sounds. Unwritten notes were played without apparent notice and the flat, unnatural sounds from the band as a whole mingled ominously with the icy moan of the wind. Even gloves failed to contribute any warmth and several men displayed their reddish-purple hands with no lack of admiration and interest. However, the drill did not last long and soon the order was given to “Pass in review.” The battle with the elements of King Winter had proven too much and the battalion retreated slowly and in good order from the field.

Delta Phi Alpha Has Meeting on Tuesday
German Fraternity Votes on Prospective Initiates
Delta Phi Alpha, honorary German fraternity, held its regular meeting on Tuesday, February 27, at the Social Center. The meeting was opened in the usual manner, each member answering the roll call by giving a quotation. A vote was taken on several men who are eligible for initiation into the newly-formed Deutsche Verein, a junior branch of the fraternity open to men who have met all the requirements of the organization except for the three years of service in College German. Men initiated into the Deutsche Verein will enjoy all of the privileges given to those men who are members of the original fraternity. The men who were voted upon and accepted are: J. H. Fitzgerald, G. L. Gullette, M. J. Barnett, J. H. Ross, A. H. Haake, A. L. Bulwinkle, J. A. Halverstadt, W. M. Hart, S. M. Hines, R. C. Morrow, and J. A. McGeachy. The initiation of these men will consist of their presentation of short plays to the members. This initiation will take place in about two weeks.

W. L. Lingle Addresses Audience in Greenville
Dr. W. L. Lingle preached at both services last Sunday at the First Presbyterian Church in Greenville, S. C. While in Greenville, Dr. Lingle was the guest of H. T. Mills, an alumnus of Davidson. Next Sunday Dr. Lingle will preach at the Church of the Covenant in Greensboro.

“DRUGS” “SUNDRIES”
A Complete Drug Store
“Make Our Store Your Store”
Reliable Prescription Druggists
WHITE DRUG COMPANY
“SODA” “PRESCRIPTIONS”

Just about the nearest thing to a pouch that a package could be—it keeps the tobacco the way you want it. A sensible package—10c. © 1934, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.

So far as we know, it is the best way ever found of taking out of tobaccos the oils that don’t smoke right or taste right in a pipe. Granger owes its extra fragrance and mildness to Wellman’s Method. The way Granger Tobacco is cut—in big flakes—helps it to smoke cool and last longer. Try it.

the pipe tobacco that’s MILD
the pipe tobacco that’s COOL
The method of preparing Granger Tobacco for pipe smoking is not like any other method now in use.