THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 5, 1934

The Davidsonian
Founded by the Class of 1915

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Printed by the QUEEN CITY PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate year.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879.

ARTICLES FOR PUBLICATION must be in the hands of Managing Editors by 4:00 o'clock p.m., Monday. Letters to the Editor are but all communications intended for publication must be signed.

EDITORIAL STAFF
Editor, J. A. C. WADSWORTH
Business Manager

Managing Editor: Martin BARNETT
Managing Editor: Paul HARLAN
Managing Editor: Tom MARCHANT
Managing Editor: JOHN WALKER
Sports Editor: Harvey GLASS
Exchange Editor: Lamont BROWN
Feature Editor: Enip BOWERS
Feature Editor: Scotty McLEOD
Associate Editor: G. L. GULLETTE
Associate Editor: E. F. McPHAIL
Associate Editor: Broly SROSKA
Associate Editor: JACK HULIN

BUSINESS STAFF
Asst. Business Mgr.: H. B. GOSLEN
Asst. Business Mgr.: VAL CASSELS
Asst. Business Mgr.: Tom ROSS
Asst. Business Mgr.: J. McMULLEN
Asst. Business Mgr.: R. W. MORROW

WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 5, 1934

It is not necessary for all men to be great in action. The greatest and sublimest power is often simple patience—Horace Bushnell.

OLD “PHI” SOCIETY FORCED TO DISBAND

There was a time when only two organizations on the Hill had powers; one of these was the Philanthropic Literary Society. It has had its share of honor and glory. From the date of its foundation records have been kept, and from these we learn of the aims for which this Society was founded. The highest aim of this Society was to benefit humanity, to be “lovers of men”. This has been the background which has trained many prominent citizens of the two Carolinas. The present President of our College was once a member of this Society. Students were coached in Parliamentary Procedure and elements of Public Speaking. We remark of the jubilee-days of the Philanthropic Society not that from the illustrious tradition of the past might come an impetus of rejuvenation, nor that the impoverished present might turn into a vivacious future, but to point out the eminent position it once held.

There are several reasons for the declining interest in the Literary Societies. In the days when travel to and from nearby towns was impeded by road conditions and modes of travel, the students had one social outlet—and that was through the Literary Societies. Social fraternities had not established themselves basically nor sufficiently enough in those days to replace the Literary Societies. Inter-Collegiate Activities were not potent enough to claim the glamor adopted by them today. Without the least doubt, Athletics have done much to transplant interests and to make these interests more manifest in such activities approved by public patronage. Even the public orations have been replaced by the inter-Collegiate debates, which to our minds is the last trace of the aspiring literati. Honorary fraternities have sprung up, and they too have choked the Literary Societies.

We merely wish to point out the transfer of interests. We do not solicit aid for the rejuvenation of what, seemingly, is superfluous. We wonder where our potential lawyers, ministers, and public workers are gaining experience. Once this experience was secured through membership and activity in one of the Literary Societies. In the year 1934 days are crowded and nights are drawn out with work and activities. Men do not have time to spend in preparation for debates or talks for the meeting. Unless there is some expenditure of energies no profit can be gained. One solution to such a problem, as this confronting us, might be the addition of a full-time faculty worker, under whose supervision the Literary Societies might function. Such an instructor should teach Public Speaking, Debating, and Dramatics.

C.D.

During the past few years, there has been a marked decline of interest in Forensic activities. This is strange at a college where for over three-quarters of a century debating and declamation were the most important extra-curricular activities—where the privilege of representing the alma mater in oratory was an honor sought by many, gained by few.

FORENSIC ACTIVITIES DECLINING ON CAMPUS

Little more than a decade ago the literary societies were considered the most important campus organizations, and editorial writers of that day lamented the fact that their unwieldy size made necessary the division of the historic Eumenean and Philanthropic societies, in the subsequent formation of two new literary groups. Although “literary” in name, these societies were in reality debating clubs, and they proved the oratorical training ground of many an accomplished speaker.

There was a day when “Junior Speaking” actually meant “Junior speaking”; there was a time when every graduate had had at least some rhetorical experience. In the past few years interest in such matters has grown smaller and smaller, until now there is only one dwindling society left in those venerable halls. It is especially to be regretted that such a situation should arise at a liberal arts college such as Davidson where so many students plan to enter the ministry, or law, or teaching—fields of endeavor in which the practical knowledge of rhetoric and an adequate command of words are essential. In business, medicine, in fact in all other branches of professional activity men are finding themselves called on to address boards, committees, and clubs or other professional or social organizations. Never has the gift of Hermes been more universally in demand.

Certainly the dearth of interest is not due to a lack of material. The college has produced and can continue to produce a number of distinguished speakers. The professor of economics has been kind enough to contribute a part of his time to coaching the debating team, and a generous allowance is granted the Forensic council for trips. Yet only twenty-six men reported for debating try-outs held last week. This may seem a large number at first glance; but when the enrollment was less than half of the present six hundred and fifty, the number of applicants for forensic honors was far greater. At one time almost the entire student body seems to have participated in some form of forensic activities.

Last year the suggestion was made that a public speaking department should be established at Davidson. No one can justly question the desirability of this step, but the college authorities may well ask: “does the student interest justify the expense such a department would incur? True we pay for full-time instructors in athletics and in music, but see how many students are actively in those activities. Such opportunities as you did have for forensic training seemed grossly neglected.” Is it not time for a revival of that fine, and, at Davidson, well nigh lost, art of public speaking? Can we not have a renaissance of forensic interest?

D. T.

The Y Cabinet, beyond a doubt, has chosen one of the most worthwhile causes for the Christmas Gift this year.

THE CHRISTMAS GIFT FOR A NEEDY CAUSE

A number of causes are presented each year to the Cabinet from which it picks the most needy and most deserving. The call of Christ from the Mountain Mission work in Ashe County is convincingly challenging every man in the student body. The question often arises in connection with the Christmas Gift, What is the actual need? Are the recipients of our gifts in any more need than we ourselves, or some others we know? In answering these questions we might say first of all that the people in Ashe County have been woefully neglected not only by the state but also by the Church. Before Mr. Stone went there some ten or twelve years ago there was no through-the-year Sunday School in the whole County. Even today after the splendid work that has already been affected by Mr. Stone and his associates, each of the unfinished churches must minister to people for a radius of five miles or more. The earnestness and sincerity of the people is shown in their willingness and eagerness to travel, mostly walk, this distance to worship God in an unfinished, non-equipped, poorly heated skeleton of a building. Yet under such limited circumstances God is wonderfully using His servants to bring the light of the World into the darkened souls of these mountain people. It cannot be estimated what good could be done if only adequate means were available.

Are the people doing anything for themselves? They have very little in reality to give—but such as they have they have given. Their churches have been built of the native stone, quarried there in the mountains. They have given of their teams, trucks, sands, rocks, and lumber. But they have gone as far as they can without outside help. There is a need for finishing this work so nobly begun. It can truly be said of them that “they first gave of themselves”. It is time for someone to recognize these noble beginnings and as brothers in Christ lend them the helping hand that their efforts so justly deserve.

Is $750.00 too large a goal? Every man in the student body should covet the privilege of having a part in this great work. It is an opportunity for expressing the true Christmas spirit of sharing. The goal of the Y is for every man to have a part in this work. Can it depend on you?

D. B.

OUR CONTEMPORARIES
By Enip Bowers

State College
“Hello Week” was instituted at State Monday by the newly organized State College Club whose chief purpose is to renew the waning school spirit and to foster more friendly relations among the students. During this week badges will be worn by each student on which will be printed his name. (An exact replica of the ancient-old Davidson custom during the first two weeks of school). “Each student is requested to speak to each passing student on the campus or elsewhere.”

Louisiana State College
The famous Huey P. Long, Emperor O’Longiana, almost played havoc with L. S. U.’s great football team when he had Abe Mickal proclaimed a state senator. Through the level-headedness of “Biff” Jones, Mickal refused the seat in the senate chamber. Had he accepted, Mickal would have been on the payroll, receiving ten dollars per day. Being on the state payroll would make him a professional athlete, thereby removing him from the ranks of the L. S. U. “amateurs”.

Wake Forest
A pawn shop has appeared on the campus of Wake Forest College which appears, from all reports, to be a boon and a curse. The students have found it mighty nice to be able to borrow money when they need it, but the wardrobes and personal belongings of individuals on the campus are diminishing rapidly.

Collegiana:
Of the total enrollment of 850 boys at W & L this year, there are 23 sets of brothers.Approximately three-fourths of the college women in the United States attend co-educational institutions. Hunter College (New York City) freshmen average 16 years of age. Andre de Coppet, a New York banker, has given more than 500 volumes which originally formed part of the library of Napoleon Bonaparte. $30,000,000 a year is doled out by 125 colleges and universities in the U.S.A. A co-ed at the University of Oklahoma caused some excitement in class when her false eyelashes became unglued and fell down on her face. The professor was immediately aroused, thinking it was a centipede. Roger Babson believes that the great middle class of people are going to demand a dictatorship in this country ultimately. A student at Sweetbriar sent a picture of her aunt to Ballyhoo and was immediately accepted for publication. Horseback riding has doubled in popularity this year over last at Smith College. The editors of the Princeton and Harvard humor magazines published a joint issue of 3,000 copies to prove that there were no hard feelings against each other. Freshmen at Baylor College in Texas are known as “Fish.” The names, addresses, and telephone numbers of all co-ed freshmen at the University of Pittsburgh can be bought for ten cents. A total of 827 living chemists have had training in chemistry and chemical engineering at Penn State College. North Carolina students “ragged” Duke so long and hard about their lack of school spirit that the Duke seniors appointed a committee to draw up a set of them. Until recently, students were levied with a poll tax at Dartmouth, when a student leader proposed a bill to construct a wall eight miles long around the town, and a town hall one foot wide and a mile high. One hundred freshmen started a revolt at the University of Maryland and were unceremoniously dumped into the chill waters of a nearby creek.

Prof. Charles Robson, of the University of North Carolina, has returned to Chapel Hill after a visit with his mother, Mrs. Alice Robson. Miss Mary Withers entertained at luncheon Saturday, December 1, for several visiting girls.

By Scorry McLrop

One of the greatest grid seasons in the history of the game has just been completed, and the only two spectacles that loom on the football horizon today are the New Year Flower Battle between Stanford and Alabama, and the Georgia-Watts tilt which will be over when you read this. The South hopes that the Red Regiment will not mar its record of being undefeated in a Rose Bowl game. Coach Frank Thomas has stated that he and 33 of his players will arrive in Pasadena on December 24 in plenty of time for drilling on the playing field there. The only man in the line of the recently picked All-State eleven who lives in the state of North Carolina is our Jim Morgan, of Albemarle. Sabol is from Ohio, Pat Swan of the Boston Swans, and George Barclay hails from Pennsylvania. Other All-State linesmen are from Virginia, Oklahoma, and South Carolina. “Big Jim” Morgan is the only player in the mythical forward wall who could be truly said to represent the Old North State. While we are on the topic of the All-State team, here are a few notable facts: Midget Verble, Concord, who failed to make his football letter this year, was placed on the second All-State team by Ed Mitchell in his Greensboro Daily News selections. Wingfield and Potter showed up in Mr. Mitchell's third-string line-up. John Siewers received five votes in the board selections. Clarence Parker and Jim Hutchins, both on the first eleven, are sophomores and apparently of All-American calibre. Jim Johnston, who plays for the Davidson B squad, received one vote for the berth at guard on the All-State eleven. Weighing 170 pounds, Johnny Mackorell is the lightest man on the mythical squad. Enthusiasm over the Georgia-Watts gridiron altercation reached a climatic peak at the game yesterday afternoon. Despite the outcome, it could not be said that either dormitory lacked supporters in the stands.

HERE AND THERE: Seen by a stooge at the Gala Gobbler Gathering at the Myers Park Club were a number of notable Davidsonians including Lexington’s gift to women, Mal Grimes; President Carl Carlson of the Centennials; Hack Sanders, celebrated Indian chief of many squaws; Billy Northen, that suave Southern gentleman; Duke Glasgow, runner-up in Davidson's recent Ugly Contest; Wimpy Ravenel, never reticent; Dance-master Percy Mims Rogers, and Bug Barringer, Bill Pritchard, Bill Bondurant, Baxter Moore, Bud Okey, George Cowan, Tom Sutton, and numerous other followers of the gay life. We have also heard of the Jack Stern hop at the Hotel Concord Friday eve at which were present, upholding the dignity of Davidson, such stalwarts as Paul Pittman, Baxter Yarborough, Midget Verble, Lynwood Hammond, Joe Johnston, Donigan, and Clark. Possibly others. We begin next week in this column a series of sketches which we shall call, for want of a better title, Campus Personalities. Look for them next week.

FIVE YEARS AGO
The Wildcats defeat Duke Blue Devils 13-12. College makes plans to form radio contact in the near future with WBT. Kuester addresses Business Administration class at Davidson. Fifteen members taken into the International Relations Club. Jim Appleby speaks at Vespers. Canvassing for “Y” Mission Fund for mountain boys begins.

TEN YEARS AGO
Davidson ends successful season by defeating Trinity team 12-13. Emory and Davidson to clash in debate in Atlanta. Glee Club makes first appearance of the year in Shearer Hall. Converse Glee Club sings at Davidson. Dr. J. S. Foster, pastor of Winston-Salem Presbyterian Church, speaks at Vespers. Clarence Ranson has an excellent record as freshman coach.

FIFTEEN YEARS AGO
Davidson Wildcats trounce Furman Hornets 41-14. College sends five to Student Volunteer convention in Des Moines. Davidson College Day to be celebrated soon. Sophs win class basketball championship. R.O.T.C. band takes trip to Rock Hill. Sixteen men initiated into the “D” Club. Glee Club and Orchestra give concert here.

TWENTY YEARS AGO
Wildcats end season with a 7-6 victory over Wake Forest. Glee Club and orchestra give initial program of the year on the “Hill.” Senior is an unusual success. Dr. J. M. McConnell invited to speak at Raleigh. Red Cross makes appeal to College for help. Freshmen win basketball championship.

SELECTED PAPERS of PHINEAS SPOON

THE NATIONAL DIFFERENTIAL
As Americans, we share in common with all peoples, regardless of race or nation, our five physical senses. They act and react with a degree of universal similarity. If the description of Man were complete with the enumeration of these five, then all would be under the same law. Nature would be the only sovereign in a realm where even political action and reaction would be determined by inflexible formula. But this is not the case. Different bodies of peoples have altogether different sensibilities notwithstanding the universality of common mental and physical endowments. In the face of this condition, it is easy to believe in the reality of a sixth sense—something altogether inarticulate, but constantly abiding and at work. Whereas it cannot be objectively analyzed, it can be sensed as an experience of consciousness. It is the presence of this peculiar sense or pressure which makes the difference between an American and a Frenchman, for example. This differential has been superficially termed a “point of view.” Some name it “Nationalism.” It has been laid at the doors of culture, language, environment, and general social heritage. None of these are explanations. After all, the world is very large, and man is small. To my mind, there is great importance to be attached to the fact that with all the world in which to wander, man settles. With great spaces filled with infinite variety, man nestles close to the familiar, hugging the finite. It seems that he is most comfortable when safe within his “closed society.” By his own contrivance, man is a “neighborhood,” and not an international animal. The sweep of the revolutionary impulse in the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries demonstrated that men everywhere wished above all else that their groups be “closed societies” independent from all others. Life is a problem of adjusting the personal values within to the confusion prevailing without, in a society which is a “going concern.” Thus each is faced with the problem of adjustment, whatever his inner compulsion may be. This problem sets up a chronic sense of tension between the individual and the “outside.” The smaller the “outside” element, the less violent the tension. He minimizes the tension when he effects a “neighborhood” relationship, a corporate consciousness peculiar to himself and those with whom he moves. The man in the “closed society” who has made this adjustment finds, on crossing the frontier, that he has moved into the atmosphere of another group consciousness. In this new climate, the problem of adjustment is not the same. His internal standard of values does not match that of his foreign cousins. Their individual wills are making a corporate compromise to an external pressure in a fashion adapted to the conditions of their peculiar social “set-up.”

Glenn Gray Ranked Highly In Colleges For College And University Appearances
By Associated Collegiate Press

Glen Gray and his Casa Loma Orchestra, which holds the record for appearances at college and university functions, not only present new ideas in popular dance rhythms but also a unique plan of band organization. Glen Gray is president of the Casa Loma Corporation, a closed corporation open only to members of his band. The organization is operated on a business-like basis, and members receive a quarterly dividend in addition to their regular monthly pay-check. New members are admitted to the band only after they have been passed on by a board of directors on the basis not only of musical ability but congeniality and personality as well. This has led to the saying in musical circles that Casa Loma is organized like a business firm and run like a college fraternity. Among the most popular of modern recording and broadcast artists, their popularity may be said to be due principally to their originality. Casa Loma set a record by playing for more than 70 collegiate affairs in 40 states in three seasons. The band is now on the air with the Camel Caravan, co-featured with Walter O'Keefe and Annette Hanshaw and broadcast over the Columbia Network every Tuesday and Thursday nights.