THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 7, 1934

VOTE FOR ALL-TIME DAVIDSON TEAM

ALUMNI NEWS EDITOR—GRIER MARTIN
ASSISTANT—JACK HELLINGER

Three Fellowships Awarded to Alumni At Union Seminary

Jones, Poag, and Norfleet Win Three of Four Graduate Awards at Richmond, Va., Seminary

OUTSTANDING STUDENTS

All Three to Study at Union Next Year

Of the four graduate fellowships awarded by Union Theological Seminary in Richmond, Va., three went to Davidson graduates. The three
alumni honored were J. A. Jones, '31, M. W. Norfleet, '31, and F. V. Poag, '30. Announcement of the awards
was made at the seminary chapel exercises last Monday morning by President Ben R. Lacy, Davidson, '06. All three of
the men plan to do their graduate work at Union Seminary. The fellowships are awarded on the basis of exceptional
work and the promise of outstanding service in the ministry.

Frederick V. Poag, Fayetteville, N. C., received his A.B. from Davidson in 1930, and his M.A. from Duke University in
1931. While here Poag was a member of the Alpha Phi Epsilon forensic fraternity, the International Relations Club, and president
of the Christian Endeavor Training Class. He has also traveled widely in foreign countries, and spent the summer of 1927
in Palestine and the Mediterranean countries, and that of 1930 in Western Europe. While at the seminary Mr. Poag has
held the Campbell scholarship, and has served as assistant pastor during the summer at the First Presbyterian Church of Charlottesville,
Va., and at the Central Presbyterian Church of Washington, D. C. Mr. Poag was awarded the Moses D. Hoge fellowship.

Marmaduke W. Norfleet, Jr., Winston-Salem, was awarded the Charles D. Larus fellowship. He graduated from Davidson in 1931, and was
a member of the Eta Sigma Phi classical fraternity, Alpha Phi Epsilon forensic fraternity, Sigma Upsilon literary fraternity, Omega Phi
Alpha philosophical fraternity, the International Relations Club, the Y. M. C. A. Cabinet, and president of the Eumenean Literary Society.
In the summer of 1930 Mr. Norfleet traveled extensively in Europe. While at the seminary he has served as student
pastor at the Fairfield Presbyterian Church of Richmond, Va.

James A. Jones, Laurinburg, was awarded the Thomas Cary Johnson fellowship. He was graduated from Davidson in 1931, having been
a member of the Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity, and of Omicron Delta Kappa, leadership fraternity. He was also a
member of Alpha Phi Epsilon forensic fraternity, the International Relations Club, and the Y. M. C. A. Cabinet. He was
manager of the freshman football team, and is a member of the “D” Club. Mr. Jones has also studied at
Edinburgh University, and accompanied Dr. Edward Mack on his trip through Palestine and Europe last year. During the summer Mr.
Jones has served as pastor of Drewry’s Bluff Church, near Richmond, and King’s Chapel in Hanover County. The Salem fellowship
was awarded to C. I. Lewis, a graduate of Washington and Lee University.

Vote Now!

On the sports page of this week’s Davidsonian will be found a ballot for the All-Time Davidson football team. Wade
Ison, enterprising sports editor of the Charlotte News, is conducting a poll to determine the all-time outfit. He is especially
interested in having as many alumni as possible vote, since he feels that the alumni should know better than anyone
else about the relative merits of Davidson’s stars, past and present. So, if you have not yet voted in this
contest, send in your ballot with the men you think have been outstanding in Davidson football history. A list of
former stars is included with the ballot, although it is not complete. After the contest is over, the results will
be announced in The Davidsonian. The Charlotte News is presenting plaques to the men named on the All-Time team.

Awarded Fellowships at Union Seminary

Above, left, F. V. Poag, C. I. M. W. Norfleet. (Courtesy Charlotte Observer)
Below, left, J. A. Jones, Lewis.

Davidson Alumnus Given Greensboro Citizenship Award

Rev. R. Murphy Williams, Pastor of Church of Covenant, Is Named Greensboro’s “First Citizen”

CLASS OF 1896

Has Been in Greensboro Nearly Thirty Years

Murphy Williams, '96, was recently signally honored by the Greensboro Community Council by being selected as Greensboro’s first citizen for
1933. Mr. Williams is pastor of the Presbyterian Church of the Covenant in Greensboro, and has long been active in
civic affairs in that city. The plaque, presented to the Presbyterian minister at the 57th annual meeting...of the Greensboro Chamber
of Commerce, bore the inscription, “The 1933 Citizenship Award: conferred upon the Reverend R. Murphy Williams in recognition of his
unselfish service, presented by the Greensboro Community Council at the 57th annual meeting of the Greensboro Chamber of Commerce, February
1, 1934.”

In presenting the award, Charles A. Hines, acting as chairman of the committee of five, E. D. Broadhurst, E. B.
Jeffress, Claude Kiser, C. A. Hines, and J. D. Wilkins, each of whom has in the past five years received
the citizenship trophy of the Civitan Club, stated that it was presented to Mr. Williams “not only as a token
of appreciation for his services during the past year, but for his achievements during the nearly thirty years that he
has been in Greensboro.”

“I deem it justly significant,” said Mr. Hines, “that this honor should be conferred upon Mr. Williams, who has set
an example for community interest, both spiritual and civic.”

In receiving the award, Mr. Williams stated that he had “never felt more unworthy than at the present moment. I
trust, however, that this honor will bind me more closely to my community. I have never done any more than
was my duty, but I accept the honor, not only personally, but as the representative of the church, the ministry,
and the Lord.”

When Mr. Williams’ name was announced as the recipient of the award, the entire group of over 200 people present
expressed its approval with overwhelming applause.

LOCAL THEATRE SHOWS “LIFE OF HENRY VIII”
(Continued from page 3)

February 13—The Life of Henry the Eighth

This masterpiece needs no introduction, but it is one that should not be missed. Henry the Eighth of England, with
all his six wives, some true and some not, all of them meeting a fate alike, whether deserving it or
not. Charles Laughton is starred alone, and he vividly portrays the life of England’s most defamed monarch. He loves his
wives and beheads them, and throughout the picture the lavish splendor of his court, along with the squalor, is shown.

For the Man Who Cares
Johnson’s Barber Shop

WITH THE ALUMNI

'82 Dr. Egbert W. Smith sailed from San Francisco on January 12th on the “President Lincoln” of the Dollar Line
for a stay of some six months in the Far East. He will visit the Presbyterian mission fields in China,
Japan, and Korea.

'88-'11 Recently there appeared in a special pictorial supplement of the Fayetteville Observer the pictures of Dr. C. G. Vardell,
'88, president-emeritus of Flora Macdonald College, and Dr. H. G. Bedinger, ’11, president of the college. Under these pictures there
was a long article telling of the rise of Flora Macdonald College for Women at Red Springs, and of its
subsequent development. This article also told the history of the college during Dr. Vardell’s administration.

In a recent issue of the Charlotte Observer there appeared a short article concerning the late Dr. A. A. McGeachy.
Quoting from the Observer, “Queens College has hung a fine likeness of the beloved and lamented Dr. McGeachy in its
parlors. The institution will never forget him, and properly wants to let the general public know who breathed his helpfulness
in that college. What you said of Shaftsbury holds for Dr. McGeachy, ‘His presence made bad men good’.”

Dr. W. T. Thompson has recently been granted a leave of absence from Union Theological Seminary in Richmond to study
from February until September. He will study at New York University.

'09 Robert E. Denny, Pinehurst attorney, has announced his candidacy for the State Senate from the district comprising Moore, Harnett,
Randolph, and Hoke counties.

Clifford Pennington has secured an appointment in the air corps and will leave for Randolph Field, San Antonio, on the
17th of February.

“DRUGS” “SUNDRIES” “SODA”
A Complete Drug Store
“Make Our Store Your Store”
Reliable Prescription Druggists
WHITE DRUG COMPANY
“PRESCRIPTIONS”

YOU ARE CORDIALLY INVITED TO VISIT OUR NEW SHOP
Located in the Heart of Town for Your Convenience
(A branch shop of our Charlotte Salon)
Expert in permanent waving, shampoo and fingerwaves, facials, manicures, eyebrow and eyelash dyes, scalp treatments, etc.
Prices Most Reasonable
MRS. CONNIE LEDWELL, Mgr.
WISTERIA BEAUTY SALON
Main and Depot Sts. — Phone 144

© 1934, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.
