THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 14, 1934

Around the Wildcat’s Lair

According to the calendar, spring officially begins one week from today. This means the commencement of spring sports and Davidson
athletic enthusiasts will soon be supporting the old Wildcat in many different fields: track and field events, baseball, tennis, and
golf. And it looks to us like the local coaches have plenty to be optimistic about in every one of
these athletic activities.

A gallant gesture to a great athlete and a real Davidsonian was made recently when it was decided to retain
last year’s choice of Shrimp Morris as captain of the varsity baseball team, although he is not back in school
this year. Morris was a sophomore last year, and his great playing on the initial sack of the diamond merited
his selection as the 1934 captain. While playing baseball last summer with an Edenton team, the All-State baseball star was
stricken with infantile paralysis and is now at his home in Hattiesburg, Miss. It has been recently reported that his
condition is somewhat improved, and we know that the hearts and hopes of all Davidson men are with Shrimp Morris,
honorary and spiritual captain of our 1934 baseball team. Here’s to you, Shrimp!

On the diamond, Frank Mock will be field captain; other outstanding candidates for the varsity include Harris, West, Ravenel, Rogers,
Weeks, Mackorell, Wingfield, Smyre, Richardson, and Becker. A number of last year’s frosh team have turned out and show much
promise. Davidson should uphold its traditional supremacy in state baseball this year and it is to be hoped that every
member of the student body will give his support to the team in every way.

In the fifth annual indoor track games of the Southern Conference held last Saturday in Bob Fetzer’s famous Tin Can
at Chapel Hill, the U. N. C. team overcame strong competition from Virginia and Maryland to win first place. Virginia
held the advantage until the mile relay race, which decided the meet for Carolina when the Cavalier trackmen failed to
place. Maryland was rather disappointing in several events, but took third place in the meet with 17 points. Carolina took
31 points while Virginia bagged a total of 30.5 scores.

Two conference records were broken in the meet Saturday, and two others were tied. McRae, Carolina runner, set a new
record for the one-mile run with a time of 4 minutes 24.5 seconds, lopping nearly two seconds from the previous
conference record set by Lauck of Virginia in 1933. In the 70-yard high hurdles, Everett, of Virginia, set a new
time of 8.7 seconds, a trifle better than the record set last year by Finklestein of Washington and Lee.

In the non-conference division of the great indoor meet, Davidson trackmen won second place with a total of 10 points.
The score of Catholic University was three better, placing it in first place among non-conference teams. Outstanding among Davidson performers
was Ras Evans, sophomore star, who took first place in the 60-yard dash. Evans, in this race, tied the record
set several years ago by Smither of William and Mary and Fleagle of Davidson, with a time of 6.6 seconds.
Faison also placed in this event. Earle Frazier, running in the 880-yard event, placed third against stiff competition. Fred McPhail,
junior track star, placed fourth in the 70-yard high hurdles, one of the most difficult races in any meet. It
was in this race that Pratt sustained a recurrence of an old injury, a sprained right ankle. It is believed,
however, that he will be able to compete in one of the first meets this season. Our cindermen did a
really fine bit of work at Chapel Hill, and considering that none of them are accustomed to indoor running, we
think they deserve the hearty congratulations of the student body.

Yesterday the local netmen began competition in a real way, with the beginning of the tennis (Continued on page 6)

Blacks Down Reds 13-0 In Final Game Of Spring Session

Verble and Armfield Score Touchdowns in Victory of Black Team

NEW TALENT SEEN

All Proceeds Donated to Barium Springs Orphanage

On a soft and slow field, the Blacks defeated the Reds in the last game of the spring football season
by a score of 13 to 0. The game was played Tuesday afternoon, March 6, and was witnessed by a
good crowd of students and visitors.

Midget Verble scored the first touchdown for the Blacks with a spectacular 50-yard run. This touchdown was the result of
a pass thrown by Pittman to Windham, who fumbled the ball, and Verble scooped it up on his own 45-yard
line and outran the opposing team to the goal. Pittman converted the extra point. Armfield intercepted a pass on the
20-yard line, thrown by Quick, and dashed across for the second score. Arrowood failed to kick the extra point. Another
highlight of the game was Mackorell’s 40-yard return of the kickoff in the fourth quarter. He ran through the entire
Black team and almost got away for a touchdown.

The game was featured by good defensive work with both lines holding well. The Black line seemed to be slightly
outcharging the Reds. Newton, Bob Johnson, Baumgarner, and Mackorell were spectacular for the Reds, while Cathey, Windham, Verble, Dick Johnson,
and Pittman stood out in the Black line-up. (Continued on page 6)

Tennis Tournament to Be Run Off This Week

The varsity tennis tournament was postponed from Tuesday, March 6, to Tuesday, March 13, because of inclement weather. For the
past several days the courts have not been ideal for playing, but are improving with the warm weather.

The following men were seeded for the tennis tournament: J. Halverstadt, T. Lafferty, T. Thompson, C. Lewis, D. Elvery, F.
H. Scott, T. Phifer, and W. Thompson. These seedings for the tournament were based on the play of these men
on last year’s tennis teams. The first rounds of the elimination will be played Tuesday; the second rounds will be
played Wednesday; quarter-finals, Thursday; semi-finals, Friday; and the finals, Saturday.

Two extensive trips to leading colleges in the North and South have been arranged for the varsity racqueteers. The team
will play their first match with the University of Florida on March 29th, and the Wildcat netters will meet other
Southern teams on this tour through the South. Two tennis matches have been added to the varsity schedule to be
played at Davidson. The first meet is with Elon, May 2nd, and the other is with Roanoke College, May 7th.

K. A.’s Lead in Race For Inter-Fraternity Cup

The lead in the annual race for the inter-fraternity sports cup is at present being held by the K. A.
chapter, which is ahead with 40 points, being followed by the Phi Delts with 35 and the Kappa Sigs, Pikas,
and S. P. E.’s tied for third place, with 22½ points.

The competition involves five divisions or sports—football, basketball, volleyball, baseball, and varsity competition—and the winner in each division receives twenty
points toward the possible hundred, the chapter having the largest total winning the cup. The second and third places in
each division receive 15 and 10 points, respectively, with five points being given for fourth place. The scores of each
division have been computed except those of baseball and varsity competition, the winner of the latter being determined by the
number of varsity men from that chapter. This will be the fourth year of the awarding of the cup, which
is now in possession of the Kappa Sigs. It is too early to predict the winner of the cup this
year—the race is young—and any one of the five leading frats may win.

Baseball Coach

Coach “Red” Laird, who faces the difficult task of replacing nine graduated lettermen and repeating his Big Five championship of
1933.

Letters Awarded In Two Winter Sports

Twelve Varsity D’s, Fifteen Numerals Awarded

The Davidson Athletic Association recently announced that varsity letters were awarded to seven basketball players and five wrestlers on the
varsity teams. In addition to these awards, fifteen freshman basketeers received numerals.

The varsity “D” was awarded to the following basketball players: Harris, C. C., Welch, W. Va.; Holland, J. M., Morgan,
J. R., Albemarle; Ross, C. B., Polkton; Windham, C. L., Gastonia, and Yelverton, H., Wilson. The following wrestlers were given
letters, according to E. L. Willson, president of the College Athletic Association: Blackwelder, L. J., Davidson;Fort, C. T., Barium Springs;
Harris, J. M., Rome, Ga.; and Quarterman, L. E., Macon, Ga. The following freshmen were awarded numerals for service rendered
during the past season in basketball: Barnes, W. S.; Branton, J. O.; Cathey, F. A.; Henderson, A. F.; Knorr, K.
R.; LeGrand, R. T.; Mauze, C. W.; Peabody, M. E., Jr.; Peters, R. T., Jr.; Poe, F. S.; Porter, J.
H.; Quick, C. C.; Robinson, R. H.; Swindle, O. Y.; and Woodward, L. E. Harris, Holland, Lafferty, and Ross are
the only men of the basketball squad that have been awarded varsity letters in that sport previously. Fort and Quarterman
are the only wrestlers among this year’s candidates for letters that have received their letters previous to those awarded this
year in wrestling.

EMBARRASSES HER
Maizie—“Why do you always turn out the light when Otis comes to see you?”
Daisy—“Because I just can't bear to see him act the way he does!”

Gastonia; Lafferty, J. W., Rome, Ga.

Coach Laird Seeks To Rebuild Broken Wildcat Ball-Club
Graduation Takes Eight Lettermen From 1933 Championship Team
NEED LEFTHANDERS
Laird Wants Heavy Hitters for 1934 Squad

Coach “Red” Laird faces the difficult task of rebuilding his 1933 championship baseball team. The eight men he lost due
to graduation were: G. E. Bailey, A. L. Mills, J. G. Morrison, J. D. Morrison, E. B. Peabody, C. W.
Pearce, J. C. Whitley, and Earl Bradsher. He also lost “Shrimp” Morris, who was paralyzed while playing ball this summer.
The lettermen whom he hopes to build his team around this year are I. L. Baumgarner, C. C. Harris, J.
C. Mackorell, F. L. Mock, J. R. Morgan, W. J. Morris, and J. W. West.

With spring practice under way a week, Coach Laird predicts many shufflings of positions before the 1934 Davidson nine will
officially appear. Laird is trying to arrange his squad so as to present more hitting strength, particularly from the lefthanders.
With this in view, two lefthanders, McLain, first baseman, and Wingfield, catcher, may be shifted to the outfield. Lefthanders seem
to be conspicuously absent from the ’Cat squad this year in both the hitting and pitching departments. The outstanding pitchers,
West, Harris, Jenkins, Richardson, and Coble, are all righthanders, while Becker is the only portside hurler. Ravenel, Casali, Moore, and
“Bobby” Burns will handle most of the catching, the one showing the most hitting ability receiving preference. Laird is much
encouraged over the great improvement of Ravenel as catcher and hitter.

(Continued on page 6)

Sound Call for Spring Practice

Spring practice will go into full swing in the next few weeks as preparation for next year’s basketball and wrestling
teams start. An attempt will be made this year to have all men that are not out for some other
spring sport participate in these practices. Both Coach Laird and Unger expressed the opinion that next year’s team will be
a decided improvement over this year’s combination. As yet no definite date has been set for spring basketball, but practice
probably will start after the spring holidays. Practice will be held three nights a week, and in the fall all
those who are not out for football will hold similar practices.

Spring wrestling will be held outdoors. Mats will be placed on the bare ground so as to keep the contestants
in such a condition as would not be possible if the practice was held in the sun-barring gym. As in
spring basketball, the wrestling coaches are making a special effort to have as many men as possible out for the
team. All men who are not engaged in other spring sports are urged to give wrestling a try. The call
for spring wrestling is expected to be given within the next two weeks, and preparation for the training of all
men out is being worked on now by the coaches.

Bring Your Prescriptions to Us---- And you can feel sure of having them carefully compounded with only the PUREST, FRESHEST
DRUGS
COLLEGE PHARMACY
Davidson’s “Service Drug Store”
NEXT DOOR TO P. O.

Union Theological Seminary
RICHMOND, VIRGINIA
Distinguished for 121 years in the whole field of Theological Education, particularly in the making of Preachers.

Baseball Captain JOE MORRIS:
Joe E. “Shrimp” Morris, who will captain the 1934 Wildcat nine in spite of his absence from school on account
of paralysis.

Joe Morris Continues As Baseball Captain
Frank Mock to Act as Field Captain for Team

Joe “Shrimp” Morris, famous Wildcat first baseman of last year and captain-elect, who was unable to return this year because
of an attack of paralysis, was voted to continue as captain of the 1934 Davidson nine by the vote of
the entire squad. Elected to serve as alternate captain was Frank Mock, second baseman. Morris was stricken with paralysis this
summer while playing semi-pro baseball, and though he is now well on the way to recovery, he was not able
to return to school this year. Though his ability as a first baseman will be missed, his spirit still pervades
the team, and it is for this reason that he was honored by the squad’s vote.

(Continued on page 6)

Mr. Byrd Will Deliver ‘Athletic Day’ Address

H. D. Byrd will be the speaker at Athletic Day, to be held May 15th, Captain Pritchett announced Monday. Other
features of the day will be the awarding of letters in spring sports and medals offered by the Athletic Association.
Byrd was for 20 years the head coach at the University of Maryland and is now the vice-president of that
institution. Pritchett states that any alumni or friends who can come to Davidson for the day will find the program
interesting.

Evans Is Star for Davidson Team in Meet at Carolina
Davidson Gets Second Place in Non-Conference Indoor Track
HEELS ARE WINNERS
Frazier Places Third in Fast Half-mile Event

The Davidson track team won second place in the non-conference division of the indoor track meet held at the University
of North Carolina, March 10, with 10 points. Catholic University, Washington, D. C., won first place with 13 points, and
William and Mary won third place with nine points. The three other non-conference entries were Georgetown University, with eight points;
University of Richmond, with four points; and Wake Forest.

E. H. Evans starred for Davidson by winning first place in the 60-yard dash. Evans stepped the distance in 6.6
seconds to tie the old record of Fleagle of Davidson, class of 1933. In the 70-yard high hurdles, E. F.
McPhail placed fourth, and E. N. Frazier was third in the 880-yard run. Frazier was boxed up at the start
of this race while about four entries passed him; however, by the end of the race, he was able to
take third place. The 880-yard run was 22 seconds faster than the conference time. It was one of the fastest
events of the meet. Davidson placed fourth in the mile relay.

Carolina won the first place in the Southern Conference indoor meet by a close margin over Virginia. Virginia led the
Tar Heels as the one-mile relay was called, but failed to place in the event, giving Carolina a 0.5 point
lead. The team leaders were: North Carolina, 31.6; Virginia, 30.5; Maryland, 17; Duke, 16.6; V. M. I., 14.6; Washington and
Lee, 8.2; South Carolina, 1.

Duke won in the freshman division with 20 points, North Carolina scoring 12, William and Mary 7, Washington and Lee
6, and Georgetown 5. In the scholastic ranks, Atlanta Boys’ High was first with 17 points; Newark Prep, defending champions,
had nine; Woodberry Forest, 7; and Morristown, Tenn., 6. There were six records broken and three tied. Arnold, Boys’ High
of Atlanta, set the meet’s first record for the high jump of the scholastic ranks by clearing the bar at
six feet. Stevens, also of the Boys’ High of Atlanta, set the record for the 60-yard dash down to 6.5
seconds.

In the conference division, Edwin McRae, co-captain of the North Carolina team, set a new mile time of 4.

(Continued on page 6)

QUICK RELIEF for stuffy heads
“Boy! I can breathe now!”
VICKS Nose & Throat DROPS
PREVENTS many colds

“MYSTERY OF MR. X”
Davidson Theatre
WEDNESDAY
ROBERT MONTGOMERY—ELIZABETH ALLAN
THURSDAY AND FRIDAY
“THE CAT AND THE FIDDLE”
RAMON NOVARRO—JEANETTE MacDONALD
SATURDAY
“THE LAST ROUND-UP”
RANDOLPH SCOTT—MONTE BLUE
MONDAY AND TUESDAY
“ROMAN SCANDALS”
EDDIE CANTOR—RUTH ETTING
