THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 19, 1934

FRESHMEN EXPECTED TO ENTER CAKE RACE ONE HUNDRED PER CENT

In the Field of Sports

WILDCATS HEADED FOR PERFECT SEASON ON GRIDIRON AS WRENS | DAVIDSON AND WAKE FOREST BEGIN SEASONS

Duke, Carolina, And State Will Open Their Schedules Next Week

DAVIDSON PLAYS ELON

With two and a half weeks of strenuous football practice already in the background, coaches of the Big Five conference
teams in North Carolina are fast rounding their charges into shape in preparation for stiff competition this fall. Two members
of the conference, Davidson and Wake Forest, will encounter their first opposition of the 1934 season Saturday, with the ‘Cats
tackling the Elon Christians here on Richardson Field, and the Demon Deacons taking the scrappy little Quakers from Guilford. Duke,
Carolina, and State will have another full week of practice in which to get into shape for their contests and
thus usher in their current football season.

Since September 3rd, Coaches “Doc” Newton, Gene McEver, and “Doc” Montgomery have occupied themselves with the process of shaping up
what promises to be the best football aggregation that ever represented Davidson College. I realize very readily that that statement
needs considerable substantiation, and I’m not absolutely positive that my knowledge of Wildcat grid history and of the present situation
will allow me to vindicate myself with all readers, but I am able to set down a few facts that
should give my assertion healthy support.

It is certain that no year has seen a larger number of candidates on the Davidson squad. About fifty men
have been going through the daily routine ever since “first call” was issued on Labor Day. Not in the last
decade and a half, and perhaps longer, has there been a complete team of lettermen to return for a second
year’s service on a Wildcat eleven, as is the case this fall. The 1934 season is also going to bring
to a close that long period of justified complaint that Davidson always put one of the best first-string outfits on
the field but there were never any substitutes to relieve the worn-out starters. Aside from the excellent-looking lettermen that will
wear the red and black during the next few months, there is a host of scrappy, determined reserves that will
not only make worthy substitutes but will probably get the call to be on the field for the opening kick-off
a good many times before Thanksgiving Day.

Special attention has been turned to Carolina and State because of the new coaching staff at both institutions. Carolina, under
the able direction of Carl Snavely, has an abundant supply of good material with which to work. The regular backfield,
which will consist of Jackson, Shaffer, Hutchins, and Snyder, will have both weight and speed, while the line under the
leadership of Captain Barclay will present a difficult barrier to any opposition. State’s football squad, with George “Hunk” Anderson as
coach, has featured frequent scrimmages, signal drills, and lectures during the past two weeks in anticipation of taking the 'Cats
in tow at Greensboro on September 29. With Rex and Farrar still struggling for the line-cracking assignment and new men
working for regular berths in the line, there is plenty of keen competition among the squad. Steve Sabol, all-state center
of last year, is assured of his position, while there is little chance of anyone replacing Redding and Stephens, co-captains.

While many men were lost at Duke by graduation, Coach Wallace Wade expects to have a better than fair team
this year. However, plenty of hard work has to be done before the Duke squad takes the field. One pleasing
feature of the Blue Devils’ work has been the running of “Corky” Cornelius, veteran half, and Jack Alexander, fullback. On
the other hand, the punting and passing have been comparatively poor. A shortage in line material has caused the Duke
mentor to shift men around in an effort to correct this.

These are the principal reasons why the Wildcats this year should be far superior to former Davidson teams, but we
shall have to wait patiently until Army, Duke, State, and a few others have had their opportunity to shatter the
exceedingly high hopes of all supporters of this Presbyterian machine. At first glance, it would seem that the Wildcat schedule
is going to be too difficult even for a team with generally higher caliber, but if you will observe it
a little more carefully, an almost ideal arrangement of the important games can readily be seen.

At Wake Forest, things are depending largely on the number of untried sophomores and several members of last year’s freshman
team. Among the regulars, Meyers, Swan, Holton, and Kitchin are the bright lights.

The usually easy Elon contest comes at a time when the coaches can check their charges and detect the flaws
that may develop during the course of the contest, and then use the following week to correct these unsmooth parts
before the machine gets its first real test against N. C. State in Greensboro on the night of September 29th.
Then the Duke Blue Devils will be met after two weeks of preparation following the Army engagement, and now that
the William and Mary affair has been changed from November 3rd to November 1st, there will be ten days in
there to get in readiness for Carolina on Home-Coming day. Of course, there is the usual eleven-day period before the
Wake Forest fracas, thus giving the Wildcats ample time previous to each big test.

(Continued on Page 6, Col. 6)

Under New Management

The Carolina Inn is under New Management and we would like for you to try us. The Food is inexpensive
but not Cheap. Mrs. Otto Goodnight, New Manager

$15.00 FOR SEPTEMBER
$22.50 FOR OCTOBER

All Freshmen Cross-Country Candidates Are Urged To Enter This Race

MANY PRIZES OFFERED

Freshmen will toe the mark on Thursday, September 27th, to begin the annual cross-country Cake Race. Officials would like to
have all first-year men who are not out for football enter the race. Some twenty prizes will be waiting for
those red-cap men who cross the finish line first. The awards will be given by the boarding houses, drug stores,
cafes, barber shops, shoe shops, etc., of Davidson, and include everything from five-pound cakes to meal tickets. The course begins
and ends in front of the Richardson Memorial Stadium.From there it runs down the golf course to the road, up
a grueling hill to Concord Road, and back to the stadium via Fraternity Court, the total length being 17 miles.
First honors were carried off last fall by William Cox. The all-time record is held by Earl Frazier, class of
'36. The members of the Freshman Cross Country team will be selected from the winners of the Cake Race. All
men are urged to come out early in order to get in shape for the run which will prove a
big help during the race.

Fresh-Cross-Country Team Begins Training Grind

Three Cross-Country meets have been arranged for the Wildcat team this year and two more engagements are pending. The present
schedule is as follows:
Oct. 13—Davidson vs. Washington and Lee, at Lexington.
Oct. 20—Davidson vs. Duke, at Durham.
Nov. 10—Davidson vs. Carolina, here.

Negotiations are now going on with the University of Virginia and N. C. State for meets to be held here.
The date of the Duke-Davidson meet will likely be changed to October 19, since the present date conflicts with the
Duke-Davidson football game to be held here.

Frosh Cross-Country Cake Race To Be Run Next Week

YEARLING COACH

According to custom, one graduate member of the Davidson College football team is selected each year to assist Red Laird
as coach for freshman athletics. This year, Francis Parks Harrison of Mt. Ulla, has been secured to fill this position.
Harrison, who graduated last year, played at guard for four years during his college career here at Davidson. He was
especially active in athletics, having been a member of the football, baseball, and wrestling squads. He was also a member
of the "D" club. Harrison will succeed Bruce Peabody, a Charlotte boy, who served as assistant freshman coach last year.
Most of coach Harrison’s time will be devoted to developing linemen, particularly guards, among candidates for the freshman team. Various
other things such as blocking, drills in fundamentals, and signals will also be a part of Harrison’s job as coach.

Freshman Gridiron Hopes Are Bright

Thirty-five First Year Men Report To Coaches Laird And Harrison

Prospects for the freshman football team this year are about the same as last year, according to Coach Flake Laird.
There are about thirty-five candidates so far, fewer than last year, but enough of the men show previous experience to
indicate that a team at least equal to that of last year can be developed. A week's practice, however, is
too short a time to definitely size up the material at hand, said Laird. This year’s squad, as a whole,
seems to be lighter than that of last year. The line, as a result, will probably be weaker, although it
is composed of several experienced men. The backfield, on the other hand, shows signs of being as good or better
than last year’s. The sum total of the backfield candidates includes quite an array of good passers, kickers, and ball-carriers,
although ability in the latter category has yet to be noticed, no scrimmages having as yet taken place. A scrimmage
with the varsity is scheduled some time this week, this being the freshmen’s first chance to show what they can
do. Candidates for the team are as follows: Barrow, Bexler, Brown, Clark, Dennis, Dixon, Dooby, Freeman, Galloway, Goodman, Graham, Gray,
Green, J., Green, R., Hall, Harrison, Hill, Johnston, Kellar, King, C., King, M., Little, Lafferty, Lucas, McQueen, McLauren, Manson, Moore,
Nicholson, Norfleet, Overall, Ogburn, Rader, Shepherd, Shytle, Smith, Sparks, Tonissen, Wilson, Williams.

Wildcat Grid Schedule Features Home Games

The Davidson College Wildcat gridiron aggregation this fall enters upon one of the most difficult schedules of any North Carolina
institution, not because there has been a change in the teams to be played, but for the simple reason the
opposing outfits are greatly improved over their last season’s lineups. Since the schedule was published in the Davidsonian last spring
two alterations in the schedule have occurred that will be of interest to Wildcat followers. The Duke game has been
changed from the Duke stadium in Durham to Richardson Field, and the William and Mary contest originally scheduled to be
played on Saturday, November 3rd, will take place on Thursday, November 1st. Only three of the Wildcat engagements will be
played away from Davidson, consequently there are six encounters booked for Richardson Field. The teams to be met on foreign
soil are: North Carolina State at Greensboro; The United States Military Academy, at West Point, New York, and The Citadel,
at Charleston. The schedule is as follows:
Sept. 22—Elon at Davidson.
Sept. 29—N. C. State at Greensboro (night).
Oct. 6—Army at West Point.
Oct. 13—Open.
Oct. 20—Duke at Davidson.
Oct. 27—Citadel at Charleston.
Nov. 1—William and Mary at Davidson.
Nov. 10—Carolina (homecoming) at Davidson.
Nov. 17—V. M. I. at Davidson.
Nov. 29—Wake Forest at Davidson (Thanksgiving).

The following men reported for varsity practice Monday afternoon: Earl Frazier, Frank Brown, Archie McFadyen, George Gullette, E. H. Donigan,
Harvey Glass, “Rip” Montgomery, Billy Merchant, and Archie Shuford. Merchant is unable to actively participate this fall due to a
foot injury, but he plans to take part in spring track.

CARS FOR RENT
Gulf Gas and Oil
M. P. HENDERSON

Welcome Men
Made to Measure Clothes
Haberdasheries
Shirts
STETSON D

COLLEGE PHARMACY
“Davidson’s Service Drug Store”

RAY HARRISON
Let Us Groom You For The Week-End
20 Years Experience With Davidson Men
NORTON’S BARBER SHOP
