DAVIDSON DEBATERS MEET FLORIDA HERE TONIGHT

The Davidsonian
Alenda Lux Ubi Orta Libertas

DAVIDSON TO CELEBRATE 97TH ANNIVERSARY

Vol. XXI DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., APRIL 11, 1934 No. 24

K. D. Weeks Elected Editor Of Davidsonian For 1934-35
Gullette, Hellinger, McPhail, and Rose Were Other Candidates for Election

HAS GOOD RECORD
New Editor Will Assume Duties With Next Issue

Kenneth D. Weeks, of Rocky Mount, was elected editor of “The Davidsonian” for the ensuing year, winning over Fred McPhail of Charlotte on the second ballot. The election was held just before spring holidays. All of the managing editors were eligible for election and were listed on the first ballot. They were George Gullette, Jack Hellinger, Fred McPhail, Ben Rose, and K. D. Weeks. All were eliminated on the first voting except the last two named. Caskie Norvell, until recently sports editor of the Davidsonian, would also have been eligible for nomination had he not withdrawn from school.

Weeks will take over the Davidsonian next week, succeeding Odi Casali, present editor, who has held the editorship for the past year. The present managing editors, with the exception of Weeks, will become associate editors of the paper. These men, together with the new editor, have selected the new staff of managing editors from members of the Sophomore class. Their names appear elsewhere in the paper.

For the past year Weeks has been president of the Junior class, and he is distinguished for his many campus activities. His first year he was on the freshman baseball team, and for the past two years he has been on the varsity squad. He was a member of the Reporters’ Club and of the Beaver Club. He is a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity, Gamma Sigma Epsilon, national honorary chemical fraternity, Pi Delta Alpha, local pre-medical fraternity, and Delta Pi Kappa, local journalistic fraternity.

Little Will Inspect Local R.O.T.C. Unit
Annual Spring Inspection Comes on April 26, 27

The Davidson unit of the Reserve Officers Training Corps will be inspected on the 26th and 27th of this month by Colonel James M. Little of the United States Army. Colonel Little is stationed at Winston-Salem and was ordered to Davidson by the War Department to make the annual spring inspection.

The following program has been adopted to cover the two-day inspection period:

Thursday, April 26
9:30 A. M.—Colonel Little will call on President Walter Lingle.
10:00 o’clock, a complete inspection of the armory.
10:40 to 11:35, inspection of second-year advanced class.
11:35 to 12:30, inspection of second-year advanced class.
The afternoon will be devoted to a detailed inspection of the records and property of the administration.

Friday, April 27
9:20 to 10:15 A. M.—Inspection of first-year basic course.
10:40 to 11:35, inspection of second-year basic course.
1:15 to 2:10 P. M., inspection of first-
(Continued on page 2)

College Publications To Complete Staffs
Business Managers to Be Elected Soon

The business managers of three of the four college publications, “Quips and Cranks,” “The Davidsonian,” and “The Yowl” are to be elected by the Publications Board soon. The manager of the other publication, the “Wildcat Handbook,” will be appointed by the president of the Y. M. C. A. When these managers are elected the staffs of the college publications will have been completed.

The board which will choose these men is composed of three student members, one from each of the publications involved, and two faculty members, Professor Fleagle and Mr.

Davidsonian Editor
KENNETH D. WEEKS, who will serve as editor-in-chief of “The Davidsonian” as the result of Student Body election held recently. Weeks, prominent in campus activities, was president of this year’s Junior class.

Davidson Debaters Will Meet Florida
Affirmative to Be Supported by Smith and Stutts

The Davidson College debating team will meet the University of Florida in a debate in Chambers Auditorium tonight, Wednesday, April 11, at 8:00 o'clock. The query will be: “Resolved, that the powers of the President of the United States should be substantially increased as a settled policy.” Davidson will be represented by R. H. Smith and A. C. Stutts, who will uphold the affirmative. The names of the University of Florida debaters are not yet known. The presiding officer will be G. H. Brown. Judges have not yet been announced.

Davidson has already met the University of Florida once this year in a debate upon the same question, the Davidson debaters being G. H. Brown and Rawling Pratt-Thomas. This debate was a non-decision debate, broadcast over the radio from Gainesville, Florida.

The subject of the debate is one of great interest and national importance today and is being debated not only by colleges, but by outstanding governmental authorities. The leaders of our country are now faced with the problem of making the decision as to whether or not the President’s powers shall be increased. The subject involves not only that phase of the question, but it brings into discussion our whole theory of national economy. It is also concerned with whether or not we shall continue the present policy of government or whether we must adopt a permanent new system of planned economy.

Brenizer Named Handbook Mgr.
New Business Manager Selected by “Y” Cabinet

Addison Brenizer, of Charlotte, was elected business manager of the 1934-1935 Wildcat Handbook at a recent meeting of the Y. M. C. A. Cabinet. Others nominated for this position were Charles Thompson and J. B. Goslin. These two men and Brenizer were appointed last year by J. A. C. Wadsworth, business manager of the 1933-1934 Handbook, to help him with the business management at that time.

Brenizer is a member of the Beaver Club, Reporters’ Club, Eta Sigma Phi classical fraternity, and Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity. This year the manager was elected earlier than usual in order to give him more time for his work.

WRITES REVIEW
The American Oxonian of April, 1934, carries a very interesting review of Vera Brittain’s “Testament of Youth,” which is an Oxford book by a woman. Quite fittingly the review is by Elizabeth Chandler Cumming (Mrs. W. P. Cumming), and it occupies the place of honor among the reviews of the April issue. It is one of the first reviews by a woman in the American Oxonian.
(Continued on page 4)

President Lingle Outlines Building Program For 1937
Total Amount Needed for Centennial Building Projects Is $6,755,000

ALUMNI JOURNAL SENT
Many New Departments Will Be Added to College

The administration and trustees of Davidson will celebrate the centennial of the founding of the college by beginning an extensive building program in 1937. Dr. W. L. Lingle stated in his explanatory article in the recent Alumni Journal that “those who have wrought in the past hundred years have given us a wonderful foundation on which to build. Davidson has history, traditions, and ideals that are unsurpassed. She has a high rating in the educational world and high spiritual ideals. Her material equipment is very good as far as it goes. But there are many needs along this line.”

The following are some of the things that could be accomplished if the college could be equipped as indicated in this tentative program:
1. Every department of the college could be strengthened.
2. Several new departments could be added, such as sociology, public speaking, music and fine arts, and so forth.
3. The department of business and commerce could be enlarged.
4. The best professors in the country could be obtained.
5. The college could select its students with the greatest of care.
6. The finest type of students would be drawn to the college.

In the report of the president of the college to the trustees in February of this year there is a tabulation of some of the things that are needed for the ideal equipment of Davidson.

Buildings:
1. A new infirmary ---------------- $ 40,000
2. A new library ------------------- 200,000
3. A new science building --------- 300,000
4. A new dormitory to replace wooden barracks ---------------- 80,000
5. A new dormitory to replace Rumple ------------------------- 80,000
6. A new field house for physical education --------------------- 80,000
7. A social and religious center ---- 75,000
8. A new church ------------------- 250,000
9. Roads, walks, and sewerage ----- 50,000

Total for buildings ---------------- $1,155,000

Endowment:
1. For library
2. For scholarships
(Continued on page 2)

Davidson To Hold First Celebration Of Founders Day
Address by Dr. B. E. Geer Will Be High-Light of Elaborate Program

TO BE HALF-HOLIDAY
Number of Alumni Clubs Will Commemorate Founding

Thursday, April 12, will mark the celebration of Davidson College’s first official Founders’ Day. This celebration will commemorate the ninety-seventh anniversary of the college and an extensive program has been planned for the occasion.

Dr. Ben E. Geer, president of Furman University, will be the principal speaker on the program. Dr. Geer is an outstanding educator and speaker and is prominent in southern civic enterprises. His address will be delivered at 11 o'clock in Chambers Auditorium. Dr. W. L. Lingle, president of Davidson College, will introduce the speaker. In addition, Dr. Lingle will remark on the plans which have been formulated for the Centennial program.

Professor J. C. Pfohl will conduct a music concert which will be rendered by the Davidson musical organizations Thursday afternoon. The Wildcat baseball team will also engage Duke University on Richardson Field and it is probable that the college band will give an outdoor concert just before the game. All classes will be dismissed after chapel exercises.

Alumni clubs throughout the eastern and southern sections of the nation will celebrate this event. Definite plans for these celebrations haveAlready been made by twelve leading alumni chapters who are to meet on that night. Chapters which have planned programs for the occasion are Atlanta, Central Florida, Concord, Birmingham, Gaston County, Greenville, S.C., Greensboro, Jacksonville, Raeford, Rowan County, Staunton, Va., Wilmington, and Winston-Salem. Most of these gatherings will be for dinner, but some of the chapters are holding smokers or informal meetings. The Washington, Philadelphia, New York, and Boston chapters will have their meetings later in April. Grier Martin, alumni secretary, has urged all alumni to pick out the meeting nearest them and attend it. This first official Founders’ Day was inaugurated in anticipation of the Centennial celebration which comes in 1937, but it is probable that it will become an annual event.

R. H. Smith, Jr., of Mobile, Ala., of “Quips and Cranks,” the Davidson annual, was elected editor for the coming year by the Junior class, and Lorenzo McPhail, of Charlotte, was elected editor of the “Yowl,” Davidson’s humorous magazine, by the student body in the elections held last week. Smith won the election on the second ballot over Don Bailey, Sam Eaton, Jack Hellinger, and J. L. McClintock. Eaton and McClintock were eliminated on the first ballot on Friday, and Hellinger and Bailey on the second ballot on Saturday.

R. H. SMITH, JR.

Only members of the Junior class voted for the “Quips and Cranks” editor. Smith succeeds Jack Williams, of Waycross, Ga., who edited this year’s book. He has been a member of the varsity debating team for the last two years, is a member of the Reporters’ Club, and of Delta Pi Kappa, local journalistic fraternity, and Phi Gamma Delta, social fraternity. McPhail won the election over Tom Wood. G. H. Brown was also eligible, but withdrew his name due to his recent election to the presidency of the Student Body for the coming year. W. L. Fugate, of Radford, Va., has been editor of the “Yowl” for the past year. McPhail is a member of the Kappa Alpha social fraternity, and of the International Relations Club. He served as art editor of the “Yowl” for the past year. Associates and other editors of both publications will be elected by the new editors later on in the month. The business managers will be selected by the Publications Board at its next regular monthly meeting.

Junior And Senior Candidates Named Class Presidents Will Be Elected This Week

Election of class officers for the year 1934-35 were continued today when nominations for president of the rising Senior and Junior classes respectively were placed before the student body for consideration. Nominating committees were appointed by K. D. Weeks and Bob Richardson, presidents of the present Junior and Sophomore classes. These committees made their reports on Wednesday morning. The nominating committee of the present Sophomore class was made up of members of the Beaver Club and submitted the following nominations for president of the rising Junior class for next year: Cokey Branton, Addison Brenizer, Bill Bowman, Henry Cathey, and Treadway Purnell. Other nominations were to be received from the floor and the balloting is to begin Thursday and will continue during the remainder of the week. The nominations of the Junior class committee were not known at this time.

Upon the completion of the elections for president, the newly chosen leaders will proceed to conduct the elections of the other class officers of vice-president and of secretary and treasurer for next year. The present officers of the Junior class are: K. D. Weeks, president; Fred McPhail, vice-president, and Charlie Harris, secretary-treasurer. The present officers of the Sophomore class are: Bob Richardson, president; Cokey Branton, vice-president, and Ras Evans, secretary and treasurer. These officers will retire upon the election of new officers as the leaders for the rising Sophomore class have already been chosen.

New Men Chosen To Fill Vacant Offices Minault and McGavock to Teach French and Math

Two new men have been selected to take the places of Professor A. V. Goldiere, of the French department, and Professor J. T. Kimbrough, of the Mathematics department, who have been granted leaves of absence for graduate study. Prof. S. S. Minault, of Ohio State University, will take Mr. Goldiere’s place, and Prof. W. G. McGavock, a graduate of Davidson in the class of 1930, will fill Kimbrough’s place. Mr. Minault was born in England, but as his father was French, he received his early education in France. He has been in this country for the past five years. He is a graduate of Ohio State University, and will receive his master’s degree from that institution in June. Following his graduation from Davidson, Mr. McGavock took one year of graduate work at Duke University.

(Continued on page 2)

Wildkittens Will Open Baseball Season Today

The freshman baseball team swings into real action this week with three contests, one of which is to be played on Richardson Field. The games are Newton High School, there, today, and Gastonia High School, there, Thursday. None of the scores or line-ups are available at the time this goes to press, but the tentative line-up for the three games is as follows: Dickson, c; Porter, 1b; Armfield, 2b; Howard, 3b; Shemwell, ss; Gracey, p; Arrowood, Corbin, and Woodward, fielders. Coach Gene McEver, who is in charge of the freshman team, stated that there would probably be many substitutions in the line-up, in order to observe the performances of as many men as possible. The other men who will make the trips are Knorr, Lanier, McKinney, McNeil, Parker, and Sommerville. Quick, according to Coach McEver, would play except for the fact that he is ineligible.

A. B. McClure Will Succeed Sam Wiley As “Y” Secretary New Secretary Is Member of O. D. K. and Graduate of Union Seminary TO BEGIN NEXT FALL Wiley to Enter Seminary for Advanced Work

Albert B. McClure, class of '31, and now a senior at Union Theological Seminary, has been chosen by the Y. M. C. A. Board of Control to succeed Samuel S. Wiley, who will enter the seminary next fall, as general secretary of Y work at Davidson. After much very deliberate consideration the Board of Control, which is an elective body in charge of the financial matters and dictation of policies to the Y. M. C. A. Cabinet, decided to vary from the usual plan in the selection of a secretary and choose a man who has been away from the college for a while. In former years a man from the graduating class has been chosen for this office, because such a person would have a more intimate contact with the students. The board, however, states that they believe in the case of McClure his qualifications for the position and acceptability by the students will be enhanced by his seminary training.

McClure, better known to his Davidson friends as “Parson,” was quite popular on the campus while a student here, having been a member of O. D. K., honorary leadership organization, a member of the Y. M. C. A. Cabinet, vice-president of the Senior class, and active in many other phases of college life. He was student pastor of the Davidson Unity Church for two years, during which time he won a very warm place in the hearts of those people in the Mill Village to whom he ministered. In view of the untiring efforts of “Parson” in this capacity, he was selected by the faculty to receive the Algernon Sidney Sullivan medallion. This is an award given at commencement every year to one member of the graduating class and one outsider as a recognition of their unselfish service to mankind. The work of the newly-elected Y secretary at the Davidson Chapel was very distinctly characterized by service for others.

During his three years at Union Seminary he has won for himself several other very distinct honors. He was chosen president of his class for the middle year, and this year he was said to have preached the best senior sermon ever delivered at that institution. He has served as assistant pastor of the Presbyterian Church at Petersburg, Va., for a part of this time and is now temporary pastor of the Presbyterian Church at Rapidan, Va. His home is in Rabun Gap, Ga., where he received his early training at Nacoochee School. Sam Wiley, who has served as “Y” secretary for the past two years, will begin training this fall for the ministry at Union Theological Seminary in Richmond, Va. Sam has handled the work during these two years in a very able fashion, and his presence will be missed on the campus, but we wish for him good success in his life work. McClure will assume his duties sometime during the summer.

Carlson Will Head Rising Soph Class New President to Conduct Remaining Elections

In the freshman elections held last Friday and Saturday, April 6 and 7, Carl Carlson was elected president of the rising Sophomore class for the coming year. In the nominations, which were held on Thursday, ten men were nominated as follows: Jack Branch, C. I. Carlson, H. P. Clark, T. G. Corbin, W. S. Edwards, R. S. Johnson, C. W. Mauze, W. B. Munson, Maurice Peabody, and R. B. Stewart. The final ballot on Saturday contained the names of Carlson, Corbin, and Stewart. Nominations for secretary and treasurer were held yesterday by Carlson, and voting will take place today and tomorrow.