THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 7, 1934

Generals Capture Conference Title

The Washington and Lee Generals last Saturday night captured the 1934 Southern Conference basketball championship by defeating the Duke University Blue Devils, 30-29, in a startling upset in the final game of the tournament. The Generals reached the finals after defeating Maryland, 45-37, in their first game, and then stopping North Carolina State, 32-28, after State had eliminated the powerful South Carolina Gamecocks in an upset victory, 43-24. Duke had defeated V. M. I., 35-14, and North Carolina, 21-18, thus securing the privilege to play the Generals in the finals. North Carolina, ranked high among the favorites, won their first game from the University of Virginia, 27-18, but in their second contest they fell before the attack of the Blue Devils.

In the final game, witnessed by about 3,000 persons, after the first half neither team was able to gain a substantial lead, and the outcome was forever in doubt until the final whistle. The Blue Devils opened the game setting a fast pace for the Generals, and within three minutes they had gained a lead of 7-0. This early attack was led by Herb Thompson, Jim Thompson, and Phil Weaver, who each scored field goals, and Connie Mack, who made good a free throw. The Generals then scored five points before the Dukes connected again, three of which were made on foul shots. Duke began another spurt and before it was over they had gained a lead of 13-7. This rally was also led by the Thompson brothers and Connie Mack. Before the Generals came to life the Blue Devils had marched on until they had run their total to 21 points. Then by a spectacular rally, led by Jones, who scored two field goals, and Pette, Sawyer, and Smith, who accounted for one goal each, the Virginians got back into the game and as the half ended they were behind only six points, the score being 23-17 in Duke’s favor.

The last half was featured by a scarcity of goals made. A number of fouls were made by the Blue Devils immediately after the opening of the second half. These free throws, coupled with several field goals, enabled the Generals to take the lead at 25-25. Three minutes were left to play and the Virginia team was still leading, 28-27; then Herb Thompson sank a brilliant shot from the side of the court to send his team into a 29-28 lead with only one minute left to play. The Generals got the ball, and Sawyers, receiving a pass from Fields, shot a long one, which hit high on the backboard and bounced in the hands of Joe Pette, W. & L. right forward, who caught the ball with both hands and hurled it into the basket to put the Virginians in the lead, 30-29. With only 14 seconds left to play, the Devils were unable to overcome even a one-point lead, and Washington and Lee had won the championship.

W. & L. Duke
Sawyers 7 J. Thompson 10
Pette 8 Bell 2
Smith 6 Mack 7
Ellis 0 H. Thompson 6
Jones 5 Weaver 2
Fields 4 Ferguson 2

Golf Tournament To Be Played This Week

The long-awaited golf tournament between the faculty and students will be played about the middle of this week unless inclement weather again intervenes. This tournament will serve as a preliminary elimination for members of the varsity team, eight men being chosen at this time. The scores made in the 36 holes of competition with the faculty will determine these men, and a later elimination to be held in Charlotte will cut the team to its usual four members and two alternates. Prof. F. E. Fulcher, faculty adviser for the team, is working hard towards plans for the coming season, and it is hoped that the team, composed mainly of new material, will chalk up its usual good record.

Tennis Tournament Is Postponed Until Mar. 6

The tennis tournament which was originally scheduled for Tuesday, March 6, was postponed one week and will begin on Tuesday, March 13. This postponement was due to wet courts. All those wishing to take part in the tournament will hand their names to “Wee” Thompson.

Phi Society Discusses Inflation of Currency

At its weekly meeting on Tuesday night the Philanthropic Literary Society held a debate on the subject, “Resolved: That the monetary system of the United States should be revised with a view to inflation.” T. G. Thurston and C. A. Harper upheld the affirmative of the question, while W. C. Neill and J. M. Smith defended the negative. After the debate a discussion was held in which all the members of the society joined.

DR. T. H. SPARROW GIVES LECTURE

(Continued from page 1)

and being but human, are stimulated to make greater efforts.” Dr. Sparrow first presented to the listeners the question of the approximate expense of a medical education. In answer to this he stated that it was largely a matter of a person’s own judgment. “Some students,” he illustrated, “spend over two thousand dollars a year, although that is quite unnecessary. The average student can get along with half of that amount.” Speaking of tuition, Dr. Sparrow replied that the prices ranged from six hundred and eleven dollars at Johns Hopkins, to the minimum of seventy-five dollars at the University of Oregon. When asked about the choice of schools, the speaker stated that a student should go to the school that he wants to attend. However, a school should be selected that provides a well-rounded course in science, especially in biology, chemistry, and in physics. The school should also have an “A” rating. Another question brought up was that concerning qualities necessary to make a good doctor and what training he should have. Dr. Sparrow answered this by stating, “A physician should have such personal qualities as intelligence, character, and induction, the whole temperedby an admixture known as common sense. "The minimum requirements now," he stated, "are greater than those of any other familiar profession. The universal standard of requirements includes at least two years of pre-medical work at college, four years of medical school, and then at least one year of hospital training." The speaker also added that a college degree was advisable, although not absolutely necessary. Dr. Sparrow pointed out that the prospective medical student should by all means major in science. However, he advised every man to take up something that he will never have an opportunity to take again in order that he will broaden his knowledge and his views. Dr. Sparrow also recommended that students participate in cultural subjects and in college extracurricular activities as these all go to strengthen his personality and consequently his business practice later. The speaker also called attention to the fact that, at present, there is a strong tendency for men to go into specialization, and as a result of this, there is much keen competition. On the other hand, the speaker pointed out, there is a great need for skillful general practitioners and this field offers many attractions and great possibilities. In closing, Dr. Sparrow stated that one of the greatest fields open to medical men today is that of psychiatry. "This field," he added, "concerns itself primarily with the subconscious mind and seeks to discover by psychoanalysis the causes for certain fears and attitudes which people have. The purpose is to promote normal thinking and acting, and to develop healthy thinking as a condition for healthy being and acting."

PRESIDENT RESIGNS LENOIR-RHYNE POST
(Continued from page 1)

The purpose of taking definite action on a plan of reorganization which Dr. Schaeffer had presented to the board on February 8 was intensified into a decisive session, when members of the Alumni Association and of the student body became agitated over the question of reported changes being proposed, and circulated petitions in protest. In taking action on these petitions when presented Tuesday afternoon, the trustees took the position that these were due largely to "misunderstanding and misinformation." Chairman Moretz expressed the view that a distorted notion on the part of many persons concerning what Dr. Schaeffer was proposing aggravated the situation and caused many unfortunate consequences. In his letter of resignation, Dr. Schaeffer intimated that a member of the faculty had been guilty of a betrayal of trust resulting in misrepresentation of the facts with reference to his proposed program of reorganization for the college. In the main, it was declared by members of the Board of Trustees, the plan of reorganization of Dr. Schaeffer was approved with the exception of his desire to do away with intercollegiate athletic contests. The board voted to continue the athletic program as at present, but indicated a willingness to institute a program of physical education to care for the student body as a whole, as suggested by Dr. Schaeffer.

MANY THOUSAND VOTES ARE CAST
(Continued from page 4)

make the Flaming Five twice. placed first in the 1932 election, the others being Charlie Pearce of Davidson, Fred Webb, Shelby southpaw golfer; Bill Goodson, one-time Davidson all-round star, and Chester Martin, Hornet left-hander who goes to Atlanta this season. Earl Clary, South Carolina grid star, who was elected to the Flaming Five in 1931, almost repeated this year, taking sixth place with a total of 504 votes. Most of the candidates were backed by blocks of votes from fans of their own locality, only two of the first five receiving general support. Balloting for Mackorell was heaviest around Hickory, his home town, but he was named by the public at large, getting no concentrated backing. Crawford’s votes were also scattered throughout the two states. The first Flaming Five was picked in 1931, the following being chosen: Earl Clary, Johnny Branch, North Carolina grid star; Guy Lacy, ex-Hornet ace; Frank Packard, diamond-man of the Bees, and Kid Brewer, former Duke football satellite. All of the men named on the two previous teams received votes in this year’s election, with the exception of Brewer, who is coaching in Mississippi.

FOUR VARSITY LETTERS AWARDED IN WRESTLING
(Continued from page 4)

The team was considerably weakened through the loss of three important men: Jenkins, who was suffering ill effects after a siege of diphtheria; Potter, who sustained a fractured rib, and Sprunt, who broke his hand during the Christmas recess. According to John Hunter, manager of the wrestling team, a one-month period of spring wrestling will be held immediately after the spring holidays. Freshmen who intend to go out are urged to answer this call.

FIRING AT RANDOM
(Continued from page 4)

those Generals, with that same dogged fight characteristic of the two great American patriots for whom the school is named, who practically robbed the Devils in the closing seconds of the contest to win, 30-29. As "Schnozzle" Durante would say it, "Oh! the irony of it all."

CARS FOR RENT
@ Gulf Gas and Oil
M. P. HENDERSON

STATIONERY
CALLING CARDS
FRATERNITY PAPERS
Printing of all Types at Reasonable Rates
PROGRAMS
See BILL JOHNSON @ 203 Watts @ Garland Court
Standard Printing Company
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

AUTOS

Men and women say They Satisfy

For something to "satisfy" you, means that it pleases you—that it’s what you want. This applies to cigarettes or anything. A cigarette has to taste right—not raw or too sweet. For a cigarette to "satisfy" it has to be mild—not strong, not harsh. You can prove for yourself whether a cigarette is milder—whether a cigarette tastes better. And it’s because smokers can prove these things about Chesterfield that so many men and women say they satisfy. Try them.