R. O. T. C. TO BE OPTIONAL NEXT YEAR
Alenda Lux G@bi Orta Libertas
NEXT SATURDAY BARIUM SPRINGS DAY
Vol. XXI DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FEBRUARY 28, 1934 No. 19

Davidson Trustees Hold Semi-Annual Meeting Feb. 21
Treasurer Reports That College Has Weathered Depression Without Deficit
R. O. T. C. IS MODIFIED
Committee Appropriates $25,000 to Repair Dormitories

The trustees of Davidson College, in their semi-annual meeting here on February 21, made several important decisions, chief among them being the modification of the compulsory feature of R. O. T. C. Thirty-four trustees, from the states of North Carolina, Florida, South Carolina, and New York, were present for the session. The abolition of compulsory military training has settled a question which has long been a source of discussion. Henceforth, students will be excused from military training if written requests are received from their parents. These requests should be in the hands of the registrar prior to the opening of college, and in no case shall they be made more than ten days after the opening of college. However, the ruling passed by the trustees states that “when a student enters the course of military training he is obliged to take the course for two years unless he is excused for physical reasons or by the Military Department of the United States.” This modification was recommended to the trustees by Dr. Walter L. Lingle, president of Davidson College.

The faculty committee on grounds and buildings was authorized to spend $25,000 for repairing and refinishing dormitories, and for the construction of walks. Plans for the refinishing of the dormitories include painting of the walls, the reflooring of one dormitory and general repairs where necessary. No definite plans have been released as yet by the faculty.

The trustees met Wednesday morning at 10 o'clock, at which time reports from the president and treasurer were heard. Mr. F. L. Jackson’s report indicated that the college has passed through the years of the depression without a deficit and that the present year, ending April 30, will also be com- (Continued on page 6)

Quips And Cranks Progressing Rapidly
List of Individual Senior Activities Being Compiled

The editorial staff of “Quips and Cranks,” the Davidson College yearbook, is now trying to obtain as accurate a list of individual senior activities as possible. Editor Jack Williams therefore urges all seniors who have not done so to turn in their activities slips to Bob Smith at the first opportunity. These slips, uniformly printed, were distributed in chapel last week and include: the college course taken; any clubs or organizations (such as fraternities) of which the man might be a member; the various committees, social or otherwise, on which he has served during his four years here; any class honors he might have won; all athletic or other extra-curricular achievements. When asked if Junior activities would be included as is sometimes done, Editor Williams said: “Inasmuch as Junior Activities are not complete as a rule, it has been decided not to include them this year, the space they would have occupied being used to make room for larger pictures.” Williams also stated that no space would be given to individual mottoes for seniors.

Bob Smith is in charge of compiling the senior activities, and the importance of getting all lists handed in promptly is emphasized by both him and the editor. The Annual staff is also occupied with the making up of the pages for the various social and honorary fraternities and honorary clubs. This work, according to Williams, is progressing as rapidly as may be expected. Williams stated, however, that several clubs and societies have not definitely decided the amount of space they want to have in the Annual, and urges that these clubs decide at their next meeting exactly how much space they will want this year.

Activities Music Director JAMES CHRISTIAN PFOHL
James C. Pfohl, who has led a musical renaissance at Davidson

Pfohl Makes Good As Head of Music
His Work Here Attracts Public Recognition

His ability in organizing and conducting the various musical organizations of the campus has brought to Prof. James C. Pfohl, Davidson musical head, public recognition, as attested by recent articles appearing in the Charlotte Observer and the Charlotte News. Many interesting facts as to Professor Pfohl’s musical career were brought out, among them his inheritance of a pronounced musical talent from a very musical family, his environment, and the personality of the man himself. His father, Bishop J. K. Pfohl of the Home Moravian Church in Winston-Salem, is a talented musician, as are his mother, two sisters, and two brothers. The environment of a home and church where music is so greatly stressed has undoubtedly left its influence upon the man, and the opportunity afforded by a well-rounded musical education (Pfohl having studied music at Salem, U. N. C., and the University of Michigan School of Music) has been used to the best advantage—so say the newspapers and those who have been associated with the college’s music. (Continued on page 2)

Large Number Enter Gymnastic Contest

The annual gymnastic tournament at Davidson is now in its final stages with some forty men competing for the athletic trophies which are given every year to the individuals making the highest number of points in the prescribed events. The contest started Wednesday, February 19, and will continue through Saturday, March 3. This year there are forty-two events in which students may compete. Each of these events is under one of five big heads, namely: the parallel bar, the horse, tumbling, condition, and the horizontal bar. Points are awarded to the student displaying the best form and completing the greatest number of events. The men placing among the first will each be awarded an athletic medal instead of a cup as was given last year. Leaders in the contest so far are L. O. McPhail, J. L. Shirey, C. G. Smith, R. T. Banks, L. E. Quarterman, and H. A. Wilson. The tournament is sponsored each year as a part of intramural sports and the trophies are awarded from a fund allotted for that particular purpose. This year the contests are under the direction of Lacy Adcox, who, in the tournament held last year, won the trophy for having the best record in the gymnastic events. More men have enrolled in the tournament this year than did in the 1933 competition, particularly among the freshmen, but Adcox hopes to see even more before the contest ends. Even if the students do not expect to win the trophy, they should come out, as this will aid their respective classes in their record of points for intramural sports.

Four Men Elected to Become Members of Phi Beta Kappa
Hines, Morrow, Schenck, and Scott Are Chosen by Scholastic Group
ANNOUNCED TODAY
Increases Student Membership to Ten Seniors

At the regular chapel service this morning, Dr. C. M. Richards, president of Gamma Chapter of Phi Beta Kappa, national scholarship fraternity, announced that S. M. Hines of Warsaw, R. C. Morrow of Zitauaro, Mexico, A. F. Schenck of Charlotte, and F. H. Scott of Tsinanfu, China, had been elected to that society. Morrow and Schenck are candidates for the Bachelor of Science degree, and Hines and Scott are preparing for the Bachelor of Arts degree. All four men are members of the class of 1934. The election was held Monday night. Hines is a member of the Pi Kappa Phi social fraternity and a member of the Sigma Upsilon, Eta Sigma Phi, and Mu Beta Psi honorary fraternities. He is also a member of the college band and orchestra. Morrow is a member of the Beta Theta Pi social fraternity and a member of the Gamma Sigma Epsilon, Pi Delta Alpha, and Alpha Phi Epsilon honorary fraternities. He is secretary of the Honorary Fraternity Council and vice-president of the Y. M. C. A. He is a cadet captain in the R. O. (Continued on page 6)

Yow! Will Appear About April First Number of Year

At a recent meeting of the “Yow!” staff, it was announced that the next issue would appear around the first of April. This will be the last issue this year, but will contain forty-six pages, instead of the usual thirty-two. This issue will be in the nature of a Graduation number and will be featured by a poll of the Senior class. The poll will consist of twenty questions concerning phases of campus life and preferences of the graduates-to-be. The questionnaire contains such questions as: “What have you gained from your four years at Davidson?” and “Which is the easiest course on the Hill?” The seniors are asked to state their favorites as to sports, orchestras, etc. The “Yow!” will have its usual features and also short stories and one-act plays. The increased size of the magazine will provide room for more literary work. Sigma Upsilon, honorary literary fraternity, has been cooperating in the line of literary endeavor. “Skip” Brown will draw the cover for the next issue, which will probably have to do with graduation, and Tom Wood is at work at clever caricatures of student leaders. The “Yowl” has been under a financial handicap this year due to the loss of color charges from cigarette advertisers when they adopted the national advertising system. Despite this, the magazine has kept up its usual quality. All contributions should be in the hands of the editor or one of the managing editors by the 20th of March.

Graduation Issue to Be Final; Formal Initiations Held Last Week By Three Fraternities
S. A. E.’s, Phi Delt’s and Pika’s Initiate Twenty-nine Students
ALL HAVE BANQUETS
S. P. E.’s and T. U. O.’s to Have Ceremonies This Week

Two sophomores and twenty-seven freshmen were initiated into three social fraternities here in formal ceremonies held the latter part of last week, and the first of this week. Sigma Alpha Epsilon, Phi Delta Theta, and Pi Kappa Alpha were the three fraternities to complete the initiations. Sigma Phi Epsilon and Theta Upsilon Omega will hold their initiations the latter part of the week. Sigma Alpha Epsilon held its initiation last Thursday night, February 22, in the Phil Hall. The ceremony was followed by a feed. Mr.H. T. Mills, Dr. A. G. Brenizer, Dr. A. S. Johnson, Mr. Harvey Moore, and four members from the S. A. E. Chapter at Furman, attended the ceremonies. The initiates are as follows: Ed Armfield, Asheboro; Heman Clark, Fayetteville; Kenneth Fryfogle, Greenville, S.C.; Dick Johnson, Charlotte; Gyte McCord, Tallahassee, Fla.; Henry T. Mills, Greenville, S.C.

Phi Delta Theta held initiation Monday and Tuesday nights, February 26 and 27. It was followed by a formal banquet. The initiates are as follows: Freshmen, Andrew S. Allen, Fernandina, Fla.; John D. Allen, Louisville, Ky.; Jack Branch, Washington, D.C.; Tom Breeden, Bennettsville, S.C.; Howard Covington, Rockingham; Lloyd Feuchtenberger, Bluefield, W.Va.; Carter Tate Gennett, Asheville; Jack LeGrand, Shelby; H. S. Harkins, Asheville; Ralph McClelland, Atlanta, Ga.; Tom McKinney, Chattanooga, Tenn.; and Jimmy Morrison, Asheville.

Pi Kappa Alpha held its formal initiation Monday night, February 26. It was followed by a feed. The initiates are as follows: Sophomores, Clyde B. Austin, Greenville, Tenn.; William H. Snow, High Point; Freshmen, J. K. Abernethy, St. Petersburg, Fla.; G. H. Bailes, Anderson, S.C.; J. W. Dickson, Anderson, S.C.; Hill, Statesville; Kenneth Knorr, Staunton, Va.; Robert H. Lafferty, Charlotte; and Marshall V. Yount, Hickory.

Lawrence K. Sparrow To Discuss Vocational Guidance
Charlotte Doctor Will Speak Friday on Medicine

Dr. Thomas Sparrow, of Charlotte, will give the first of a series of talks on vocational guidance Friday night, March 2, at 8:30, in Phi Hall. His subject will be “Medicine,” and he will present the practical side of the profession, discussing questions of interest to men who are expecting to follow a medical career. Those who are interested in medicine as a profession have prepared a list of questions which Dr. Sparrow will discuss. All Davidson students are cordially invited.

Dr. Sparrow is a graduate of Davidson and is one of the leading surgeons of Charlotte. Next week the subject will be “Business,” but as yet no speaker has been definitely selected.

In order that the “Davidsonian” readers may have before them exactly what was said concerning compulsory military training at Davidson College at the meeting of the trustees here last Wednesday, this paper carries below that part of President W. L. Lingle’s annual report to the trustees which relates to the R.O.T.C. The report recommends that in the future administration of R.O.T.C. at Davidson those students be excused from military training whose parents or guardians so request, and also gives the president’s reasons for the recommendation, which was approved by the trustees. The entire report is:

Compulsory Military Training At Davidson Is Banished By Trustees

“Action of the Synod of North Carolina”

“At its last meeting the Synod of North Carolina took the following action with reference to Davidson College:

‘The Synod of North Carolina hereby expresses itself in harmony with the deliverance of the General Assembly, as recorded in the Minutes of 1931, p. 41, as follows: “We do not believe the Church-owned or controlled school should make compulsory military training a part of the curriculum and we request Synods and Presbyteries owning and controlling schools now having compulsory military training to plan for making such training (Continued on page 6)

Freshman Smoker

According to E. L. Powell, senior Counsellor of Freshmen, a freshman smoker will be held Friday night of this week in the banquet hall of Chambers. At this time Professor J. P. Williams, dean of freshmen, assisted by some member of the Senior class, will talk to the freshmen on discipline and class affairs. It is hoped that Mr. F. L. Jackson will be present at this meeting to discuss matters of importance with the group. A program is expected to be inaugurated at this time in which the several classes will work in more perfect harmony. There is also probability that a date will be set for the removal of freshman caps.

Davidson Is Chosen For 1935 IRC Meet

Southeastern Division of Club Accepts Invitation

Davidson College was chosen as the meeting place of the Southeastern Student Relations Clubs at the closing session of a conference at Hattiesburg, Miss., February 24. The meeting of the conference at Davidson next year will mark the organization's twelfth annual meeting. State Teachers College and Mississippi Woman's College, Hattiesburg, Miss., were joint hosts at the recent meeting which was held February 22-24. The decision for the meeting place came as a result of an invitation issued by Lyman Clardy, president of the local International Relations Club, for the conference to meet at Davidson next year.

Davidson College has been represented at the last four conferences, but due to the great distance from Davidson to Hattiesburg, did not send representatives this year. The first conference was held in 1924, in Greenville, S.C., under the name of “The Southern Student Conference on International Relations.” Colleges from the following states were represented at this conference: Alabama, Arkansas, Florida, Georgia, Louisiana, Mississippi, North Carolina, Oklahoma, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas, and Virginia. Since that time the Southern Conference has been divided into the Southeastern and Southwestern Conferences.

In the past eleven years Southeastern Conferences have been held at Converse College, Wofford, Brenau, Agnes Scott, Anderson College, University of Georgia, Mississippi State, Emory University, Rollins, Mississippi Teachers College, and Mississippi Woman's College. The meeting to be held at Davidson next year will be the first time the conference has met in North Carolina. The twelfth annual meeting will be held at Davidson next year.

A president to succeed Will Weathersby, of Mississippi State Teachers College, will be elected from the membership of the Davidson College club when the meeting is held here next year.

Junior Speaking Will Be Held March 23-24

Junior Speaking, long regarded as one of the most outstanding social events of the college year, will be held March 23 and 24 under the auspices of the Junior class. A great variety of entertainment has been planned for members of the student body and for many visitors who will attend. This event has been observed for many years at Davidson.

The most important part of the program this year will be three dances in the Charlotte Armory-Auditorium, for which Johnny Long and his Duke Collegians will play. The first of these will be given on Friday from 10:00 till 2:00. On Saturday afternoon the tea dance will be held from 4:00 till 7:00, and that night the last of the entertainments is to be given from 8:30 to 12:00 o'clock. In addition to other entertainments, the college glee club and orchestra will (Continued on page 2)

Barium Springs Day to Be Held On Local Campus Saturday

Spring Football, Boxing, and Wrestling Will Feature Orphanage Celebration

WEST LEADS CHAPEL

Red and Black Gridders Hold Final Scrimmage

A delegation from Barium Springs will have charge of the chapel program next Saturday, which is Barium Springs Day at Davidson. The chapel program, under the direction of Julian West, president of the student body and a former Barium boy, will consist of music by a double quartet and a description of cottage life at the orphanage. The program is expected to last about twenty minutes.

The main feature of the day will be the final scrimmage of the spring football season between the Red and Black squads at 3:30 in the afternoon. This scrimmage will be a full-length game, and an admission will be charged. Davidson students will not be charged admission, but they will be given an opportunity to contribute as much as they desire to. The proceeds of this game will go to the Barium Springs Loan Fund, which enables Barium children to attend college by loaning them money, which is paid back after they finish college. Tickets are on sale for this game in Charlotte and other nearby towns by alumni who are interested in this project.

The Red and Black squads have been divided for practically all of the spring practice season, so a great deal of rivalry exists between the squads. Also, the fact that several of the men on each squad are competing with each other for a place on the varsity adds to the rivalry of the two squads. The band will play at this game.

Immediately after dinner there will be a wrestling match between Barium Springs and High Point. The Barium matmen won the state championship at Chapel Hill a few weeks ago and later beat Appalachian College, which is considered to have the leading college team in the state, having defeated teams from Duke and Tennessee. High Point was one of Barium’s chief opponents at the state meet. Between the matches there will be several boxing bouts by the smaller boys from Barium. If the weather permits, the entire orphanage will come down for the wrestling matches and the football game. Many of the boys who will appear in the various events of the day have brothers who are now in school here. Some of these are Leonard Fort, Henry Pittman, and A. D. Potter.

The following is the chapel program: Devotional exercises by Leonard Fort; musical selections by a sextette composed of Margaret Moore, Elsie Brown, Bobby Marlowe, Morris Freeman, Tom Clark, and Ed Burney, accompanied by T. L. O'Kelley; short talks by representatives from each cottage: Baby Cottage, Stanley Smith; Annie Louise, Elizabeth Robards; Synod’s, Henry Pittman; Howard, Grace Caton; Lee's, Willard Dry; Rumple Hall, Bobby Marlowe; Alexander, Ray Norman; Woman's Building, Maude Eugene Shannon. The concluding number will be the Barium Alma Mater.

Davidson Debaters Return From Tour

Northern and Western Trips to Be Made Soon

Gordon H. Brown and Rawling Matt-Thomas, representing the Davidson College debating team, returned tonight from a ten-day tour of Southern colleges and universities. On their trip the two Davidson representatives debated at the University of Georgia, the University of Florida, the University of Miami, and the College of Charleston. The negative side of the query was upheld by the Davidson debaters, the question being, “Resolved, that the Powers of the President of the United States Should be Substantially Increased as a Settled Policy.”

Upholding the affirmative side of the same query, Bob Smith and A. C. Stutts will leave the latter part of this week on a Western trip which will include (Continued on page 5)