THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 2, 1934

Freshman Foursome to Engage Carolina Team

Under Coach Newton’s supervision, the 'Kitten golfers are preparing for their match with the freshman linksmen of Carolina, Saturday, May
5. The match will be played at Chapel Hill. Charlie Ross, of Charlotte, who will play number 1, will also
act as captain; Ralph McClelland, Atlanta, Ga., will play number 2, and Carter Gennett, of Asheville, will play the number
3 position. The number 4 position, between George Cowan and Tom McKinney, had not been decided at the time this
paper went to press. Coach Newton stated: “The freshman golf team will play the Salisbury High School, the State freshmen
and the Charlotte High School, but the dates have not been arranged.” Many of the Centennial linksmen have filled positions
on other teams and a successful year is expected.

Track Star Becomes Subject for Poetry

The following poem appeared in the Knoxville, Tenn., paper under the heading of “Local Boy Makes Good,” after Madison Armistead
won second place in the broad jump in the Tennessee-Davidson track meet.

He threw himself into the air,
Where he landed we know not where,
We do not know what became
We only know he leaped to fame.
If he will only cut out the dames
We're sure he’s headed for Olympic Games,
And when he’s there among the crowd
We'll certainly know Lula will be proud.

Student Injured When Motorcycle Hits Auto

Joe W. Bailey, freshman at Davidson, received a fracture on his left leg below the knee when he was struck
while riding a motorcycle near the outskirts of the city. With the intention of buying a motorcycle for use this
summer, Bailey was riding behind the driver's seat with the owner driving the motorcycle on the seat before him. While
driving at a moderate rate of speed on the Mooresville highway, a car driving on the left-hand side of the
road approached so quickly that the occupants of the smaller vehicle had no chance to veer to the other side
of the road. A head-on collision occurred between the two, causing the motorcycle to be thrown off the road. Dr.
J. W. MacConnell reported that the owner of the motorcycle, Sherrill, has severe cuts about his head and legs and
some brain concussion is feared. Those injured were brought to the Davidson hospital and were treated by Dr. MacConnell. The
occupants of the car were not injured.

WALTER SPRUNT IS CHOSEN SECRETARY

(Continued from page 1)

mental and physical life,” said Nelson, “but his spiritual life must become well integrated.” Fletcher spoke twice on subjects of
current interest. Speaking Saturday morning on “Internationalism in Munitions,” he revealed conditions in the munitions racket which enabled a number
of arms works to influence the attitude of the world toward world peace. He deplored the activities of the various
arms works, Colt and Bethlehem Steel in America, Armstrong in England, Krupp in Germany, and Schneider in France. One of
the problems of peace-loving citizens today, he stated, is the overcoming of the influence of the munition factories who by
lobbying and general propaganda are able to block efforts toward world peace. Speaking again Saturday night, Fletcher discussed the “Economic
Situation.” He outlined the credit system of the country and discussed international trade and pointed out the difficulty of the
present capitalistic system's distributing trade surplus to those who are in need of them. Reverend Mr. Poteat, speaking to the
young people’s societies of Raleigh, delivered the message Sunday morning. He uttered a challenge to youth to step forward in
these distressing times and sounded a note on internationalism, not only as a way to peace, but as a way
to a more settled economic situation. Following each talk, groups met together in free discussion of questions brought up. W.
M. Thompson as chairman of the men’s part in the conference presided over the Y. M. C. A. group. At
a banquet Saturday night each college group sang its “Alma Mater.” Davidson was represented in this by a quintet. Sam
Wiley, secretary to the Davidson “Y,” led the devotional services Sunday morning.

CHEMICAL FRATERNITY HOLDS OPEN MEETING

(Continued from page 1)

means in which no heat is given out. This is a very new experiment in this field, and has been
the object of much research and speculation. The guests were entertained with a contest in identifying odors common to the
chemical laboratory. Lynn Huie, Addison Brenizer, and Prosser Morrow were awarded prizes as being high scorers in the contest. A
feed and an informal social gathering were enjoyed afterwards by the guests and members. Gamma Sigma Epsilon was founded at
Davidson College in 1919. It has grown since that time to have chapters in states all over the country, including
Florida, Alabama, Kentucky, Wyoming, and New York.

INTER-FRATERNITY BASEBALL STARTED TUESDAY

(Continued from page 3)

worked for the Phi Delts. Having received a bye in the first round, the K. A.’s and Phi Gams mixed
in a game that was much closer than the score indicates. Playing heads-up ball, the Phi Gams led the score
at the end of the seventh, 17-9. They secured an early lead and managed to hold it until the game
ended. The last four innings of the game were much closer than the first five, bringing out some good ball
playing at times. Mims Rogers and Ed Wooten served as the battery for the Phi Gams, while the K. A.’s
did not seem to be able to find the right combination, using three pitchers, Johnson, Hutchins, and McCallie, with Phil
Cook behind the plate. A first-round game between the S. A. E.’s and the Kappa Phis was tied at the
end of the seventh, but with the aid of the extra inning, the Pi Kappa Phis defeated the opposing nine
10-9. The outcome of the game was in doubt until the last ball had been thrown, and in the eyes
of the spectators the game was very well contested. Ralph Smith and John Willis were the hardest Pi Kappa Phi’s
battery, while Bill Reid and Tom Marchant served for the S. A. E.'s. The semi-finals will be played off the
latter part of this week and the championship will be decided the first of next week. The S. P. E.
diamond stars and the hard-hitting Pikas metTuesday to determine the lower bracket semi-finalist. The outcome of the game was not
known at the time of the publication of this paper. Wednesday afternoon there will be a game between the Pi
Kappa Phis and the Beta Theta Pis. The Phi Gams and Kappa Sigs will meet Thursday.

NATIONAL VOCATIONAL CONFERENCE TO MEET
(Continued from page 3)
Hawes, James P. Warburg, Nancy McClelland, and Governor A. Harry Moore of New Jersey. Among the other career fields to
be discussed the first few days will be advertising, automotive industry, building, insurance, secretarial work, journalism, radio broadcasting, and others.
Law and medicine and specialized fields which require three or four years of training have been omitted. Because it is
expected that the attendance will be extremely large, admission will be by ticket only. A limited number have been assigned
to each college, which will then distribute them to the interested graduates. Announcement will be made later concerning the number
of tickets Davidson College will receive. An advisory board of 20 men outstanding in the educational field will direct the
meeting, which is to be held at the L. Bamberger and Company in Newark.

DAVIDSON IS LICKED TWICE STRAIGHT
(Continued from page 4)
They won in straight sets, and account for another Davidson point. 6-2, 6-4. Scott, playing the number six position for
Davidson, played by far the fought match of the day against Minor of Carolina. Scott, having match point five times,
finally lost before the brilliant play of Minor, 3-6, 6-3, 7-5. The summary:

Singles—Halverstadt (D) defeated Willis, 6-3, 6-4. Harris (C) defeated Thompson, 7-5, 6-4. Levitan (C) defeated Lafferty, 8-6, 6-3. Morgan (C)
defeated Barnett, 6-2, 6-3. Lewis (D) defeated Jones, 6-4, 4-6, 6-4. Minor (C) defeated Scott, 3-6, 6-3, 7-5.

Doubles—Halverstadt and Lafferty (D) defeated Willis and Harris, 6-2, 6-4. Levitan and Morgan (C) defeated Thompson and Lewis, 8-6, 6-4.
Minor and McGline defeated Barnett and Scott, 6-2, 6-1.

BLUE DEVILS DOWN WILDCAT NINE
(Continued from page 4)
Duke (4) Ab R H O A E
Bell, 2b ---------- 4 0 1 2 1 0
Huiskamp, rf ---- 4 0 0 0 0 0
Weaver, 1b ----- 4 0 1 9 1 0
Wagner, c ------ 4 0 1 10 2 0
Cornelius, cf ---- 2 2 1 2 0 0
Michael, ss ------ 3 0 0 2 3 1
Thompson, lf ---- 3 0 1 0 0 0
Hendrickson, 3b 4 0 0 3 2 0
Naktenis, p ------ 3 0 0 0 1 0
May, p ----------- 0 0 0 0 1 0
Totals: --------- 30 4 4 27 10 1

Summary: Runs batted in, Morgan. Two-base hit, Smyre. Stolen bases, Mock, Smyre 2, Mackorell, Wingfield 3, Michael, Thompson. Sacrifice hit,
Bumgarner. Hit by pitched ball, by Naktenis (Wingfield). Double play, Michael and Weaver. Bases on balls, off Jenkins, 5; Naktenis,
8; May, 2. Struck out, by Jenkins, 2; Naktenis, 9. Balk, Jenkins. Left on bases, Davidson, 11; Duke, 7. Wild
pitch, Naktenis. Umpires, Morgan and Vickers.

WILDCAT TRACKMEN ADMINISTER DEFEAT
(Continued from page 4)
Shot put—McElrath (D); Potter (D); Tipton (D). Distance: 40 feet, 10½ inches. Low hurdles—McPhail (D); Hawes (W); Parker (D). Time:
25.9 seconds. Pole vault—Lee (D); Pittman (D); Williamson (W). Height: 11 feet, 10 inches. 880-yard run—Oakes (D); Corbin (D); Ward
(W). Time: 2 minutes, 6 seconds. Discus throw—Dill (D); Tipton (D); Millikin (W). Distance: 113 feet, 5 inches. High jump—Anderson
(W), and Gammon (D), tied for first; Lee (D). Height: 5 feet, 9 inches. Broad jump—Armistead (D); Byerly (D); Millikin
(W). Distance: 21 feet, 5¼ inches. Javelin throw—Pearce (D); Tipton (D); Lineberger (W). Distance: 163 feet, 10 inches.

The freshman summary:
100-yard dash—Dickson (D), first; Fowler (D), second; Thompson (P), third. Time: 10.3. Mile—Brown (D), first; Clark (D), second; Wilson (D),
third. Time: 5:52. 220-yard dash—Thompson (P), first; Fowler (D), second; Melton (D), third. Time: 23.7. High hurdles—Dickson (D), first; Jordan
(P), second; Williams (P), third. Time: 16.6. Pole vault—Jacobs (P), first; Purdy (D), second; Pritchard (D), third. Height: 10 feet,
6 inches. 440—Peeler (P), first; Poe (D), second; Fowler (D), third. Time: 55.5. Shot put—Jacobs (P), first; Prather (P), second;
Johnson (D), third. Distance: 45 feet. Low hurdles—Jordan (P), first; Jacobs (P), second; Melton (D), third. 880—Peeler (P), first; Brown
(D), second; Cox (D), third. Time: 2:11.3. High jump—Jacobs (P), first; Melton (D), second; Dickson (D), tie; Prather (P), and
Williams (P), tied for third. Height: 5 feet, 6 inches.

AS FELIX SEES ’EM
(Continued from page 4)
will have a nice competitor for the big-time races, maybe the Penn relays, in a couple of years. Concerning the
relays, the sports department wishes to extend its hearty felicitations to Captain Miller Cochrane for his third-place heave in the
discus event at the Pennsylvania meet held in Philadelphia last weekend. Two other North Carolina representatives, Ralston Lee of the
University, and Milton Zori, the man-mountain sophomore from N. C. State, set new relay marks in the javelin and discus
throws, respectively, during the meet. Several other Southern stars won prominence for themselves while taking part in this annual track
rally, but Davidson is extremely proud of the excellent showing the Wildcat weight star made in his event.

“The Broadcaster” probably expects a rebuttal from this column for the way in which he dragged the author over the
coals last week, but just as a house divided against itself cannot stand, so a newspaper printing contradictory news will
not make very rapid progress. Therefore, with the gentle warning not to rub me in such a fashion any more,
I grant you the victory.

© 1934, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.

The way tobacco is cut has a lot to do with the way Chesterfield burns and tastes. There are many
different ways of cutting tobacco. A long time ago, it used to be cut on what was known as a
Pease Cutter, but this darkened the tobacco, and it was not uniform. The cutters today are the most improved, modern,
up-to-the-minute type. They cut uniformly, and cut in long shreds. The tobacco in Chesterfield is cut right—you can judge for
yourself how Chesterfields burn and how they taste. Everything that science knows is used to make Chesterfield the cigarette that’s
milder ... the cigarette that tastes better.

Chesterfield: the cigarette that's MILDER, the cigarette that TASTES BETTER.
