THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 31, 1934

The Davidsonian
Founded by the Class of 1916

MEMBER
Associated Collegiate Press
1934

Published Weekly
“For a Better Davidson”

Printed by the QUEEN CITY PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate year.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879.

ARTICLES FOR PUBLICATION must be in the hands of Managing Editors by 4:00 o'clock p.m. Monday. Letters to the Editor
are welcome, but all communications intended for publication must be signed.

K. D. WEEKS .......... Editor
J. A.C. WADSWORTH ... Business Manager

EDITORIAL
MARTIN BARNETT ........ Managing Editor
PAUL HARLAN ........ Managing Editor
TOM MARCHANT ........ Managing Editor
JOHN WALKER ........ Managing Editor
HARVEY GLASS ........ Managing Editor
LAMONT BROWN ........ Managing Editor
ENID BOWERS ........ Exchange Editor
CARLYLE LEWIS ........ Feature Editor
SCOTTY McLEOD ........ Feature Editor
L. GULLETTE ........ Associate Editor
E. F. McPHAIL ........ Associate Editor
B. L. ROSE ........ Associate Editor
JACK ........ Associate Editor
VAL ........ Business Mgr.
OM ........ Asst. Business Mgr.
J. S. McMURRAY ........ Business Mgr.
RISK MORROW ........ Business Mgr.

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 31, 1934

You will never “find” time for anything. If you want time you must make it—Charles Buxton.

EXPRESSION OF OPINION IN THE OPEN FORUM

In the first issue of The Davidsonian, there appeared an article announcing the inauguration of an “open forum” column in
the paper of which the students and readers would have full benefit for the expression of their opinions on various
matters and policies. Up until this issue, we have received very little response to this announcement. We feel definitely sure
that there are many students who would like to take advantage of this privilege to express their pent-up opinions and
views on campus life and activities here at Davidson College. A large majority of the students are not in a
position to make known their sentiments as are some of the more fortunate ones. Nevertheless, their opinions are just as
valid and important as anybody’s, and for this reason, it is believed that the “open forum” is an adequate medium
through which to remedy this situation. If used advantageously, this organ for the dissemination of opinions could be made most
effective and constructive in nature and would certainly exercise some influence on campus organizations and activities.

May it be pointed out, however, that this privilege does not have for its purpose to encourage adverse criticism, but
it does have for its purpose to encourage criticism of a constructive nature. There are also limitations placed upon freedom
of expression in the columns of this paper, and for this reason, only those articles which are deemed advisable will
be printed. On this page is the initial appearance of the “open forum.” The Davidsonian strongly urges alumni readers as
well as students to make use of the “open forum” and the editorial columns contained in it. Articles of this
kind should be addressed to the editor and should be in his hands before four o'clock on Monday afternoons.

THE LIBRARY ON SATURDAY NIGHTS

There is a regulation, or rather a custom, concerning the Davidson College Library which although not a very vital one,
is one which has proved quite inconvenient at times and has never been understood by a number of students interested
in this matter. What is being referred to here is the fact that the library does not stay open on
Saturday nights. We see no valid reasons why it shouldn’t remain open during this time. Students have appeared before the
library committee in the past in this behalf, but have never accomplished any favorable results. There are arguments in favor
of each side, but we believe that the reasoning for outweighs the reasoning against. As far as we know, the
main objection is that not enough students would use the library on Saturday nights to justify the expense of keeping
it open at this time. It seems that the convenience and benefit that could be derived from this privilege would
more than offset any extra expense incurred during these few extra hours. It is true that the library wouldn’t be
used as much on this night as on others, but it would certainly prove helpful and convenient on many occasions
which we believe would warrant its being kept open. There may be other reasons that we are not aware of
and don't understand, but if there are none other than the above-mentioned we would like to see this privilege granted.

Saturday night, peculiar to any other night in this particular instance, would be, it seems, a most appropriate time during
which to keep the library open. On this night, students knowing there were no classes on the following day to
prepare for could spend their time as they desired it in the library instead of preparing routine and assigned work
as they usually have to do on other nights. In this way, students could become better acquainted with the library
and the time spent in it made more interesting. Surely, if permitted, this privilege could be considered as a step
to a certain extent conducive toward making the weekends on the campus more attractive to the students.

MORE SCHOOLS ABOLISH THE HONOR SYSTEM

There seems to be a gradual increasing trend toward the abolishment of “Honor Systems” over the country, especially so in
the larger schools. This trend has found root in the fact that after years of trial the system has failed
miserably in its main purpose, that of trusting the honesty of the students in the classroom. Two years ago the
Honor System was abolished at Georgia Tech, and just a few weeks ago the School of Arts and Sciences at
Tulane University did away with the system altogether. Only last week one of our most well-known contemporaries, North Carolina State
College in Raleigh, abolished the system. At present in many other schools throughout the country, the system is undergoing a
period of crisis. In almost every case where the change has been brought about, it was pointed out that the
system had never operated successfully. The violation of the system by an increasing minority made it quite unfair to those
that abided by it. Although it did give the cheater ample opportunity to engage in his dishonest practices, it was
equally as unfair to him as it was to the man who did not violate the honor code. Wherever the
system has failed to function successfully, it was said that the cheater was given the opportunity to continue a habit-forming
practice which would lead to dire consequences in the future. He would become too dependent on others.

An editorial in The Technician of State College had the following to say about the passing of the school’s Honor
System: “In its fourteen years of operation at State College, the system has never worked successfully. There were always some
students who took advantage of the trust placed in them, and it was these students who kept one of the
best plans for building student character from succeeding. Honesty is one of the cardinal virtues, but it is one of
the most abused. “It was not the majority of students who deliberately cheated to make passing grades, but only a
few who made it appear to outsiders that the State student body was a bunch of hoodlums without a grain
of self-respect. It was bad publicity for the college and a reflection on the students.” This same editorial stated that
the action taken was not regretted. The Honor System at State was first condemned by a vote of the Student
Council which was endorsed by a unanimous vote of the faculty thus resulting in its withdrawal. In its place has
been substituted a system of proctors who will be on duty during quizzes and examinations; making a report to the
Council after each quiz. Students will be allowed to leave the classroom only when necessary and professors will remain throughout
the period. Students must also take alternate seats during quizzes.

It may be conceded that the new system will be more effective and more satisfactory, but it is indeed disappointing
to know that in so many of our leading colleges the Honor System has or is failing because a surprisingly
large number of the students dishonestly take advantage of the trust placed in them. Davidson College has an Honor System
the success of which makes it unique. It is one which has merited investigation and praise from outsiders and one
of which every Davidson man is proud. May the Honor System here have the continued cooperation of the students and
thus become an exception and shining example to other institutions.

OPEN FORUM

Editor's Note: There are many contributors to this paper and for that reason The Davidsonian does not necessarily endorse any
opinions embodied in this or any of its editorial columns.

Editor The Davidsonian:

Radio Experiment, A Success?

It is hoped that the above title will recall to your mind an article which appeared in the last edition
of last year’s Davidsonian, an article which, if you will recall, strongly denounced the then existing condition of the radio
experiment. For that denunciatory article, I make no apology. If the condition which existed then were prevalent now I should
again direct a stream of criticism against the same. But that condition has vanished! And I propose a vote of
thanks to the Executive Committee which made this experiment possible; to you men who actually control the radios; and last,
but by no means least of all, to “Skipper” Brown and his crew—a combination which functions very smoothly and efficiently.

From this experiment, or experience, I wish to offer this observation: Davidson men can and will avail themselves of a
granted privilege without abusing the same. Last May I should not have admitted this. Now—I dare not close my eyes
to a fact which has been ascertained. The irrevocable fact that Davidson men can rightfully and advantageously use a privilege
stands out supremely. Deny this if you please. But in so doing you are unintelligently disregarding a fact!

This person believes that it is far beyond a Davidson man’s most airy flight of imagination to attempt the discrediting
of the above fact. Therefore, this article is not directed primarily to you Davidsonians. The specific direction of this is
to any would-be opposers of the sentiments voiced by the Student Policies’ Union in their article last week. Opposers whose
contention is that Davidson men cannot make intelligent use of privileges.

(Signed) J. A.

OUR CONTEMPORARIES
By Enid Bowers

Duke University
A one-semester course, with the daily newspaper as a text and a competent instructor as a guide, was suggested in
an editorial in the last Duke Chronicle.

Collegiana
Dartmouth College students may be given full control of their dormitories. The Dartmouth Alumni Magazine was recently chosen...as “the best
publication in its field.” At Lehigh, the frosh must wear “black socks and ties.” A fine of ten dollars or
a jail sentence of six days can be imposed upon a co-ed at the University of Minnesota if caught wearing
a fraternity pin. A survey at Harvard revealed that the average student carried 22 cents in his pockets. In Missouri,
college football games are not subject to taxation. There are six Roosevelts at Harvard this year. Only ten percent of
the university students in Germany may be women due to a recent Nazi ruling. Chess is obligatory at all Soviet
colleges. Yale turns its back on the “New Deal” according to a poll taken among its students. SAE’s boast the
largest number of members of any social fraternity in the United States. Members of the Princeton and Harvard football teams
will bury the hatchet after their football game and will dine together. Rear Admiral Byrd is a graduate of the
U.S. Naval Academy in the class of 1912. William Shakespeare, “poetic back” of Notre Dame, flunked English at that University
last year. Dr. Ralph R. Winn, City College of New York instructor of philosophy, claims that the students who sleep
during lectures retain the greatest amount of information being disseminated. The Iowa State Teachers College recently conducted a questionnaire to
find out how much a date was worth. One student voted ten cents. In the Dean's office at Creighton University
is a sign that reads: “Get your grades and pass out quietly.”

COMPASSING THE CAMPUS
By Scotty McLrop

This Saturday will give the Catawba Indians the chance they have long said that they wanted to beat Davidson. Our
boys should go on the field and swamp them so completely that they would never utter another word about Davidson
“being afraid to play Catawba.” Since 1910, when the State Champion Wildcats beat them 29-0, the two schools have never
enjoyed athletic relations despite the fact that they are located only twenty-three miles apart. Catawba is a headliner in the
“Little Six” and will be one of the few teams in that conference to play against a “Big Five” this
season.

FROM GRID ARCHIVES
The first real football games at Davidson were played in 1897 when the locals lost to North Carolina and were
victorious over South Carolina, both games ending in close scores. An average of 500 for the first gridiron season at
Davidson. For five successive seasons, the Davidsonians beat the South Carolina Gamecocks, and in 1902 they were dropped from the
Wildcat schedule temporarily; then, in 1903, the fighting roosters struck back and beat our team, 28-12. Davidson beat Georgia Tech
in 1902 by the score of 7-5, and two years later humbled Auburn in Birmingham, 6-0. It was in 1905
that the first Davidson tutor was employed to teach the local gridders how to play the game; his name was
Williams. In 1909, the local boys lost to the Navy, 6-45, but in the following year registered a victory over
the University of South Carolina, 53-0; beat Wake Forest 32-0; downed Lenoir 57-0; and humbled the College of Charleston, 27-6.
In the next season, a strong Tennessee team came to win, 0-9. 1914 was a successful year for the team
when they lost only one game, beating Wofford 81-6 and The Citadel, 14-0. A 58-13 victory over Furman was chalked
up for the ‘Cats in 1915 and in the same year Georgia Tech beat our lads, 7-21. In 1917, high
scores seemed to be the style: Davidson beat Wake Forest, 73-7; Wofford, 62-0; Furman 28-7; Clemson, 21-9; Auburn, 21-7; V.M.I.
23-7. While winning from these teams, the ’Cats lost to Georgia Tech and the Navy. Duke University went down before
the snarling Wildcats in 1925 by a score of 26-0, and in 1926 the Davidsonians didn’t lose a game in
the Big Five. The 1926 State Champions beat Duke, 20-0; Carolina, 10-0; N.C. State, 3-0; and tied the Deacons, 3-3.
All of which doesn’t prove a thing but if you like football you might be interested in these statistics.

GLAMOROUS CHARLESTON
Incomparable city of antiquity and the spirit of early America—Charleston by the sea. About thirty Davidsonians were there last weekend
for the Cadet contest. The “Mess Hall B” after the game Saturday was really a fine one. Seen there were
Tom Marchant, sartorially immaculate; Bud Okey, returning to old haunts; Jim Knox, very much at ease; Baxter Moore, trying to
get a late date with Miss Mays; Grier Martin, stately journalist; and others somewhat befuddled. Betsy Armfield, Ed’s sister, was
on hand for the hop. And in town were Hack Sanders, Ab Price, P.D. Guerrant, Duke Glasgow, Shy Taylor, and
numberless other Phi Delts from other schools. Miss Brandes was the queen of the ball with a constant stream of
stags at her elbow. The civilian clothes marked a man for the question of the Charlestonian girls, “Ahrr you-ou from
Dai-yidson?” It is a fascinating lingo they have and enhances the attractiveness of the city’s female contingency.

TEN YEARS AGO
Furman defeated the Wildcats 6-0 in a hard-fought game in which the difference in weight paved the way for the
lone touchdown. One of the outstanding features of the game came when the ball went over to Davidson on their
own six-inch line. Hunt punted the ball which was touched by the Furman safety man and was recovered for Davidson
by McConnell. Dr. W.T. Thompson of Union Seminary is the speaker at the Fall services. He is proving to be
one of the most popular speakers on the campus in a long time.

FIVE YEARS AGO
Former Governor Morrison will deliver the address in Chambers tomorrow night, the occasion being the dedicatory exercises for the $20,000
Skinner pipe organ which is a gift from Mrs. Morrison. The Wildcat eleven bowed to the Wake Forest jinx. The
Deacons succeeded in breaking up the Davidson passes and were able to push over the one touchdown which gave them
the game. The heavy line of the Baptists accounted for the victory. A.N. Halverstadt won the fall tennis tournament by
defeating E.Z. DuBose 6-3, 6-4, 6-2.

SELECTED PAPERS OF PHINEAS SPOON
When a man jumps on a horse and promises to ride off in two directions at once, someone is being
deceived. It will be the onlookers if they are credulous; the rider if he is so determined. In his public
utterances, notably in his more recent, President Roosevelt has made much use of the word “Security.” Indeed, in his last
“fireside chat,” he declared with unmistakable emphasis that the Administration intends to provide a degree of economic security never before
enjoyed by the American people. When he says, “I stand or fall on my refusal to accept as a necessary
condition of the future a permanent army of unemployed,” that intention is unequivocally posed. The implication here is that by
new definition the Federal government is responsible for the continuing economic prosperity of its citizens.

Astute politician that he is, Mr. Roosevelt realizes that his constituency is composed of many classes. Not only is there
the class of “the Forgotten Men,” but there are those who in many ways jealously covet the constitutional liberties peculiar
to the structure of our government. In other statements, and with equal vehemence, the President has addressed himself to this
conservative class. To them, the assurance has been given that this program for “Security” will in no wise compromise the
integrity of their fundamental rights. The student of the “New Deal” record ought not to be primarily concerned with the
policies adopted to the progress of business recovery. The consideration of vital moment is the effect that a new economic
philosophy is having on the political system under which we live. There is only one important question in the air
today. “The power to tax is the power to destroy.” Should it at the same time be the power “to
provide”? If Mr. Roosevelt means what he says, “Security” will come only from a drastic revamping of the American political
structure. It means the fitting of all business with its infinite variety of complex problems into some determined pattern of
prices, wages, and practices. With prices, wages, and production intimately related, regulation of one factor must necessarily involve regulation of
all three. If there is more to this “Security” idea than the customary rhetoric of Rooseveltana, then traditional American institutions
may be rocked to their foundations. For be persuaded, if by new definition the American government is responsible for the
continuance of economic prosperity, that obligation can be serviced—at a price, of course.

The implication seems to be that the powers of the Federal government can be multiplied without seriously abridging the Constitutional
powers and liberties reserved to the States and to the People. If the President is sincere in his promise of
unprecedented security to millions of Americans, then the Federal government must become Leviathan. When, on the other hand, Mr. Roosevelt
persists in affirming that his program entails no fundamental change in the philosophy of American government, he takes flight from
reality. It would seem very much as though he is trying to be on both sides of a very embarrassing
fence—at one and the same time. The intention may be sublime. But the fulfillment—ah, there's the rub! Mr. Roosevelt is
a demagogue unless he fully intends to establish the “economic security” with which he so sorely tempts the stricken masses.
If he is sincere, this will be an enormous undertaking. The structure of American industrial enterprise must be modified and
regulated. If, as the President avows, this is a governmental task, we are headed for a mammoth bureaucracy. The day
that the Federal government becomes Juggernaut, that day we shall have become not a Federation of States but an assortment
of provinces. Mr. Roosevelt's protestations to the contrary notwithstanding, when Washington assumes responsibility for the economic fortunes of our people,
an epoch will close. There will have been “brought forth upon this continent a new nation.” At least Mr. Roosevelt
will have forever ceased to be a Democrat. For it is my recollection that Democracy’s prototype, Thomas Jefferson, was instrumental
in devising “a wise and frugal government.” He wished to preserve the State governments in all their vigor; which, at
that time, meant practically independent and sovereign commonwealths. It is impressed upon me that, if as Lincoln said, a government
cannot exist half slave and half free, neither can it live half Jefferson and half Roosevelt! Certainly not when the
two ingredients are now mixed in the blurred mentalities of the same individuals. All of this reference to the “antiquated
precepts” of another day is not to condemn Mr. Roosevelt’s perhaps enlightened conception of the “responsibilities of government.” It is
only to point out that the Consti-

Continued on Page 3, Col. 1
