THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 18, 1934

Davidson Trackmen In V. P. I. Meets Saturday

The varsity and freshman track teams will leave Friday morning to participate in meets Saturday with V. P. I. Fourteen
freshmen and 22 varsity men will make the trip. Coach Whittle stated that the V. P. I. varsity team is
very strong this year, although they were defeated 66-61 by the W. & L. cindermen. The V. P. I. first-year
team is the best they have ever had, Whittle said. Ten of their freshmen were entered in the Carolina indoor
meet, and they showed up unusually well in the sprints and the hurdles.

The meet will be started as early as possible Saturday so that the Wildcats and 'Kittens will be back in
Davidson by twelve that night. It is hoped that all the regulars will be able to make this trip.

Beaver Club Abolished By Leadership Society

The Beaver Club, honorary sophomore society and junior order of Omicron Delta Kappa, was abolished by the latter organization at
a meeting of its members last Monday night. The action taken by O. D. K. came as no surprise, as
this step has been considered for some time. Lack of function and purpose of the Beaver Club, it was said,
were the reasons for its abolishment. Formerly its members were chosen from the rising Sophomore class on merit of their
participation in campus activities, and its main function was to promote good relations with visiting athletic teams which come here
from time to time by assisting in extending them every possible courtesy. As the “D” Club now functions in that
capacity and has been doing it for some time, the Beaver Club was left without any definite purpose of activity.
The step taken by O. D. K. was passed upon by a unanimous vote of its members.

COLLEGE MAGAZINE TO HAVE NEW FEATURES

(Continued from page 1)

Lorenzo D. McPhail has recently been elected by the student body to be editor of next year’s “Yowl.” To date,
the Publications Board has not announced the appointment of a business manager for the magazine. The retiring staff is composed
of W. L. Fugate, editor, and A. W. Colwell, business manager.

Gamma Sigma Epsilon Has Election of Officers

Mat W. Alderman, of Alcolu, S. C., was elected president of Alpha Alpha Chapter of Gamma Sigma Epsilon, national chemical
fraternity, at a regular meeting held Monday night. Other officers elected at the same time to serve for the coming
year are Edwin S. Hodge, treasurer; Charles S. McCall, secretary, and James Batte, sergeant-at-arms. Alderman succeeds Rufus Morrow, who served
during the past year. Batte read a paper on “The Chemistry of the Blood,” at the meeting. Professor O. J.
Thies, of the chemistry department, gave a report on his trip to the meeting of the American Chemical Society in
Florida. Matters concerning an open meeting to be held in the near future were also discussed.

E. F. McPHAIL ELECTED NEW CLASS PRESIDENT

(Continued from page 1)

and a clerk in the Student Store. Peyton is an assistant in charge of the erection of bleachers and is
aide to the alumni secretary. In winning this election Montgomery defeated the following nominees: Sam Bernardo, Fritz Byerly, Dud Elvery
and Ed Holt.

Follow The Crowds To Norton’s Barber Shop Buff Shoe Shop Fine Shoe Repairing Next Door to Linker’s Pressing Club

NOMINATE MEN FOR CLASS COUNCILMAN

(Continued from page 1)

class in the Student Council elections, a “public” election not being held. The president of the Student Body and each
class president automatically become members of the Student Council. “Skip” Brown, president of the Student Body; Fred McPhail, Senior president;
Bill Bowman, Junior president, and Carl Carlson, Sophomore president (all for the coming session), are automatically installed as Council members.
Those men picked by the nominating committee Monday night were: Rising Seniors: Bob Coit, Duke Glasgow, Tommy Phifer, Ben Rose,
Walter Sprunt, Joe Wadsworth, K. D. Weeks, Hugh Yelverton; Rising Juniors: John Partridge, Bob Richardson, Treadway Purnell, Bob Lindsay, Harvey
Glass; Rising Sophomores: Jack Branch, Tom Corbin, Jack Gaw, Herman Clark.

FURMAN PRESIDENT MAKES CHIEF TALK

(Continued from page 1)

tional lives, homes, schools, churches.” “However, I shall dare to say,” declared Dr. Geer, “in these confusing times that there
has been nothing new and terrifying, that we shall surely and unerringly move into new and higher fields of life.
The trouble with our nation is that our faith is in eclipse, faith in divine institutions and in divine intelligence.”
Concluding his talk, he stated: “With the return of faith, justified confidence, we shall again move forward.” Dr. Geer, prominent
in business 20 years before becoming a college president, was introduced by Dr. Walter L. Lingle, president of Davidson College,
who briefly discussed the plans for the enlargement of building facilities and endowment by the time of the centennial celebration,
coming in 1937. Dean J. M. MacConnell discussed the early years of Davidson and told of the founders, “whose lives
and ideals are still exemplified at Davidson.” “The job of founding,” declared Dr. MacConnell, “has been done. It now remains
for us, the builders, to carry the ideals of the founders still further and higher.”

Sharing the spotlight with the celebration of first Founders’ Day at Davidson was the publication of the first Alumni Magazine,
which included some of the features mentioned in the Founders’ Day program. The glee club rendered “Let Every Tongue Adore
Thee,” by Bach, on the morning program, and the Davidson Concert Band gave a short concert in the afternoon. Among
the visitors of the day was Col. E. L. Baxter Davidson, a descendant of the Davidsons for whom the college
was named.

BILL BOWMAN CHOSEN JUNIOR CLASS HEAD

(Continued from page 1)

In the voting for vice-president, Windham and Yarborough were left after the first vote and Windham received the majority on
the final vote. Grimes opposed Brown in the run-off for secretary and treasurer in which Brown received the majority.

ALPHA PHI EPSILON BIDS SIX NEW MEN

(Continued from page 1)

Alpha Phi Epsilon, which recognizes ability in oratory and debating, was established at the University of Alabama in 1918, and
Phi Chapter was organized at Davidson in 1925. At present it lists as its members at Davidson: Dr. J. M.
McConnell, Dr. T. W. Lingle, Prof. A. Currie, Dr. C. K. Brown, Prof. W. L. Porter, R. T. Banks, G.
H. Brown, R. T. Coit, J. H. Fitzgerald, Jr., W. L. Fugate, H. M. Hawkins, S. C. Henry, E. J.
Humphrey, R. C. Morrow, Jr., R. H. Smith, W. P. Sprunt, Jr., R. W.Pratt-Thomas, Jack Williams, Jr. The officers for
the past year are: W. L. Fugate, president; E. J. Humphrey, Jr., vice-president; Rawling Pratt-Thomas, secretary and treasurer.

FIRING AT RANDOM (Continued from page 4)

Since school reopened these boys have encountered four other foes and their equal hasn’t been on the courts with them
yet. Captain Jimmy Halverstadt, who has lost only one match this season, and that to Billy Reese, holder of several
titles, now No. 1 at Georgia Tech, is the best bet to win the singles title at the state tournament
which is to be staged on the University of North Carolina courts at Chapel Hill Thursday, Friday, and Saturday of
this week. Halverstadt and Lafferty as a doubles team will be pushing some pair for that crown, too. This duet
won the southern prep school championship in 1930, and it wouldn’t surprise me to see them bring back a cup
apiece from the North Carolina play-off this weekend. All of our boys should do themselves credit in this tourney, and,
as has been said before, “We'll be wishing for them good success.”

The golf team opened its season last Thursday with Furman, who in turn licked the ’Cats, but they came through
to outplay their opponents from U.S.C. on the next afternoon, defeating them without great difficulty. It will no doubt be
of interest to those who play a great deal of golf to know that the local course is being enlarged.
Just how many holes are being added I am unable to say, but the ground across the road from the
fourth green is being graded, and it looks as if three or four more fairways could be gotten in there.

Pole vaulting in the Tennessee meet at Knoxville Saturday, John Lee, sophomore member of the track team, cleared 12 feet
on his fourth try. This is six inches above the present school record, and John will no doubt make it
officially before the season ends.

DAVIDSON TRACK TEAM WINS AND LOSES TO TENN. (Continued from page 4)

Phail leading Pratt with Parker third in the lows. Eleven of the fourteen third places went to the Davidson team,
this proving the deciding factor in the Davidson victory. The summary:

100-yard dash—Anderson (T) first, Faison (D) second, Byerly (D). Time: 10 seconds flat.
220-yard dash—Anderson (T) first, Faison (D) second, Byerly (D). Time: 22.4 seconds.
440-yard dash—Sledge (T) first, Pugh (T) second, Johnson (D). Time: 53.1 seconds.
880-yard run—Wolfe (T) first, Frazier (D) second, Oakes (D). Time: 2 minutes, 2.2 seconds.
120-yard high hurdles—Pratt (D) first, McPhail (D) second, Parker (D). Time: 15.7 seconds.
220-yard low hurdles—McPhail (D) first, Pratt (D) second, Parker (D). Time: 26.1 seconds.
Shot put—Cochran (D) first, Lippe (T) second, Pounders (T). Distance: 45 feet, 7 inches.
Discus throw—Cochran (D) first, Pounders (T) second, Dill (D). Distance: 130 feet, 4 inches.
Javelin throw—Pearce (D), and McCarrol (T) tied for first, Cochran (D) third. Distance: 169 feet, 8 inches.
Pole vault—Pritchett (T) first, Lee (D) second. Only two entered. Height: 11 feet, 9 inches.
High jump—McPherson (T) and Anderson (T) tied for first, Gammon (D) third. Height: 5 feet, 10 inches.
Broad jump—Anderson (T) first, Armistead (D) second, Byerly (D). Distance: 22 feet, 4 inches.
Mile run—Frazier (D) first, Oakes (D) second, Frazier (T). Time: 4 minutes, 36.7 seconds.
Two-mile run—Woodall (T) first, Gullette (D) second, Glass (D). Time: 10 minutes, 25.8 seconds.
Relay—Tennessee first. Time: 3 minutes, 35.5 seconds.

INSTALLATION SERVICE WILL BE HELD FRIDAY (Continued from page 1)

At the conclusion of this ceremony, “O Davidson” will be sung, and the new and old officers will adjourn to
a banquet in the banquet hall in Chambers. An orchestra built on the remnants of the “Southernaires” will play during
the occasion. Supper will be served at six o’clock Friday in order that those planning to go to the dance
may have time to dress between supper and the installation services. West urges the students and the girls whom they
have up for the dances to attend these services.

FRESHMEN DEFEATED BY THREE OPPONENTS (Continued from page 4)

Their opponents with seven hits to Gastonia’s five. Numerous errors on Davidson’s part and failure to hit at the right
time allowed Gastonia to run up a lead that cost them the game. Gracey pitched the entire game for Davidson.
Shemwell and Arrowood hit well in all three games and Quick stood out in the Wingate game, the only game
in which he was able to play.

’CAT TEAM HONORS FOUNDERS’ DAY (Continued from page 4)

xBatted for Ravenel in ninth.

Score by innings:
Duke 4 0 6 2 0 0 0 0 0—12
Davidson 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0—1

Behind the expert pitching of May, Duke evened the count in the two-game series by defeating the Wildcats, 12 to
1. The Blue Devils scored four runs off Richardson in the first inning with three singles, a base on balls,
an error, and a two-base hit. Six more runs were pushed across in the fourth and Duke finished their day’s
scoring by taking two more tallies in the fifth. Richardson was relieved by Harris in the fourth. Davidson scored its
lone run in the seventh when Bumgarner singled to left, bringing in Johnny Mackorell.

Duke
Ab R H O A E
Bell, 2b 5 2 2 2 2 0
Hitchcock, rf 5 2 2 0 0 0
Weaver, 1b 5 1 2 9 0 0
Wagner, c 5 1 1 5 0 0
Peckham, c 0 0 0 0 0 0
Cornelius, cf 5 0 2 3 0 0
Michael, ss 5 1 1 2 1 0
Hendrickson, 3b 5 1 2 1 0 0
Maxon, lf 5 1 2 2 0 0
May, p 5 2 2 0 2 0
Total 45 12 16 27 5 0

Davidson
Ab R H O A E
Mock, rf 3 0 1 0 0 0
Smyre, ss 3 0 0 1 2 0
Mackorell, 3b 4 1 1 1 2 1
Morgan, lf 3 0 0 2 0 0
Bumgarner, 2b 3 0 1 2 6 1
Shields, 1b 3 0 0 15 0 1
Rogers, cf 3 0 0 4 1 0
Ravenel, c 3 0 0 4 0 0
Richardson, p 1 0 0 0 2 0
Harris, p 2 0 0 0 2 0
xMcLain 1 0 0 0 0 0
Total 29 1 3 27 15 3

xBatted for Smyre in ninth.

Score by innings:
Duke 4 0 6 2 0 0 0 0 0—12
Davidson 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0—1

40 MEN IN THE ORCHESTRA 16 SINGERS IN THE CHORUS

ANDRE KOSTELANETZ, CONDUCTOR

Monday Wednesday Saturday 9 o’clock in the evening Columbia Stations Coast to Coast

We hope you’ll enjoy it. We always try to make Chesterfields as good a cigarette as Science and money can
make them—in the hope that people will enjoy smoking them.

—May we ask you to try Chesterfield?

© 1934, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.
