THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 21, 1934

Variety of Books Added to Library

Modern Works on Philosophy, History, Music, and Science Among Those Selected

MANY UNUSUAL BOOKS

Works on Religion of Today Well Represented

Many distinctive and modern books have been added to the College Library recently. Students of philosophy will be interested to know that among the new volumes are Richard C. Cabot’s “The Meaning of Right and Wrong,” and “The Journal of Gamaliel Bradford,” edited by Van Wyck Brooks. The latter has been called, “One of the most notable revelations of the mind-workings of a writer that has yet come out of America.”

In the field of novels, Miss Cornelia Shaw, librarian, announced: the completed series of “The Tale of the Genii,” translated from the story written by Lady Murasaki, of Japan, in the year one thousand; “The Imperial Palace,” an exciting history of modern life, by Arnold Bennett; and “To a God Unknown,” by John Steinbeck.

“Behemoth—The Story of Power,” by Eric Hodgins and F. Alexander Magoun, is a thrilling narrative of the rise of power in the world from the primitive day, two centuries old, down to modern marvels of gigantic machinery. It will catch and hold the attention of all those interested in sound science, history, biography, and the newest wonders of the world.

Two books which will move and convince even the most disinterested reader are “Beside Galilee,” by Hector Bolitho, and “Robert E. Lee, The Christian,” by William J. Johnstone. The former is a first-hand survey of Zionism and Modern Palestine, and the latter is a portrayal of the religious life of Robert E. Lee.

“The New Encyclopedia of Music and Musicians,” edited by Waldo Selden Pratt; “The Forest of Adventure,” by Raymond Ditmars, and “A Short History of Costume and Armour” from 1066 to 1800, by Francis M. Kelley and Randolph Schwabe, are other books that will appeal to various readers. The “New Encyclopedia of Music and Musicians” is said to contain “something about everything and everybody in music, and what is still more important, the means for finding out more if more is wanted.”

Pills Brothers Render Varied Entertainment

“Ladies and gentlemen, the Pills Brothers of Davidson will now render their popular radio skit.” Such was the introduction of the trio on one of their early visits to appear on the stage in Statesville. That would have been all very well if they had known that they were expected to do a radio skit, but that announcement was the first they had heard of it. True to fashion, however, they filled the bill and were equal to the occasion.

Ever since their freshman year the Pills Brothers, D. P. McLain, D. G. Monroe, and W. L. Northern, have been singing together at various places in and around Davidson. Their first appearance was at a concert of the glee club and orchestra, during their freshman year. All three of the boys are Phi Gams, and it was through their fraternity that they met and began to sing together. Ever since, they have helped their brothers pass many a long winter evening by entertaining the group as it was gathered around a roaring fire.

Among the many places at which they have sung are the S & W in Charlotte, the Charlotte Hotel, Queens-Chicora College, Belmont, Pinehurst, Winston-Salem, Greensboro, Red Springs, Aberdeen, Mooresville, and Statesville. They have sung for private banquets, on the stage and over the radio.

As evidenced by their type of singing they believe in popular music, expressing the belief that it might even be classed as American folk music. The Pills Brothers are to be in charge of the entertainment for Junior Speaking dances. To them goes the credit for the idea of having a masquerade ball at the Friday night dance.

Fort Is Re-elected Wrestling Captain

C. M. Fort, captain of the varsity wrestling team, was re-elected captain for the term of 1934-1935 last week at a meeting of the varsity squad. This is the first time in many years that any one man has been elected captain of the wrestling squad for two successive years. R. H. Porter was elected varsity manager for next year, and Phifer Erwin, assistant manager.

Ross and Peabody Lead In Basketball Scoring

Courtney Ross and Maurice Peabody respectively lead the varsity and freshman basketball teams in scoring the past season. Ross totaled 173 points to gain a distinct lead over his teammate, Captain Charles Harris, who came second with 144 points. J. W. Lafferty ran a close third with 140 points to his credit. On the freshman team, Peabody ran up a total of 119 points to lead G. B. Cathey, who scored 105 points, and C. C. Quick, captain, who bombarded the goal for 83 points.

Varsity summary:
T.P.
173
144
140
87
46
19
Total: 325

Freshman summary:
F.G.
21
15
9
17
8
10
Total: 78

SIDNEY MINAULT ADDRESSES CLUB

(Continued from page 3)

Lanier Pratt; Betty Hogson, Madison Armistead; Eugene, Interprete, Bob Coit; James Hogson, Dave McLain; L'Inspecteur de Police, T. Hooke McCallie; and L’Agent de Police, Dale Spencer. This is the same play which has been presented before the French clubs of Converse and Winthrop this year, but it has not been given before a Davidson audience. Following the adjournment of the meeting, a short informal feed was held for members of the local club.

Ault Urges U. S. to Enter World Court

(By Associated Collegiate Press)

Boston, Mass.—(Special)—Imploring President Roosevelt and his advisers to give the United States a new deal in foreign relations, Prof. Warren O. Ault, head of Boston University’s history department, urges that the United States enter the World Court and sign the four-power pact.

“The time has come,” this historian asserts, “when we must either arm ourselves to the teeth, or take practical measures to keep out of war. Positive, constructive leadership towards peace is what we need. I believe that it would help to join the World Court, even at this late date. We might enter into the four-power pact in Europe and make it a five-power pact. France would feel more secure.”

Pointing out that there is a marked drift in the world today toward dictatorships, Professor Ault continued: “There has also been a marked drift towards actual military preparedness. This is seen in the downward trend of disarmament activities. While intentions have been good, nothing of value has been done at any of the recent disarmament conferences. Apparently you cannot disarm a country with agreements; a loophole always will be found.

“If we do not arm ourselves to a certain extent, the country is said to be criminally negligent.”In the protection of its people; if we do build battleships and such protection, other nations believe we are preparing for war. “Whatever the cost, we must avoid war psychosis. One cannot act natural when it is on us. The worst elements in people come to the front, and stay there for years afterwards. That way lies madness,” the Boston professor concluded.

Woman is the stronger sex, Mary Sydney Branch, of Western College, claims in a recent book published by the University of Chicago Press.

States Responsible For Higher Education
(By Associated Collegiate Press)

New York City — (Special) — That each state is responsible for higher education within its borders, that this responsibility extends to private as well as public institutions, and that the commonwealths should invoke their licensing powers to assure a higher quality of education, was asserted by Howard J. Savage, secretary of the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching, in the 28th annual report of the foundation.

“The tenet that a state’s responsibility extends to the field of higher education does not imply that all higher education should be controlled by the state or supported by the state,” Mr. Savage said in qualifying his statement. “Nor is the inference justified that privately supported colleges and universities maintain lower standards of work than publicly supported institutions, or vice versa.”

This responsibility of the state implies, according to Mr. Savage: “First, the state has an obligation to provide opportunities for the education of its people at the higher levels, preferably within its own borders. Secondly, it has an obligation to assure its people that the quality of education it makes available in any institution it charters is good.”

In discussing the use of the chartering power by the state, Mr. Savage continued: “The diversity of provision in the several states for the chartering of universities and colleges has a direct bearing upon the possibility of any state’s assuring its people even merely adequate quality in higher education. The uses of the licensing power respecting the practice of the professions tend in the same direction. Apparently, it is recognized that the state is obligated to defend itself against not only inferior individuals but inferior institutions.

“Yet the constitutional or statutory power for legislatures to annul or modify educational charters is not by any means country-wide, and only a few states provide for direct supervision by state authority after incorporation. In general, then, it may be said that most of the states of the Union have set up no truly adequate device for guaranteeing the quality of the education to be had in the colleges and universities that they charter.

“This statement is not to be construed as a plea for standardization in higher education among the states,” Mr. Savage concludes. “It may, however, imply some such question as follows: How may any state best discharge its responsibility respecting the quality of its institutions of higher education?”

Many Freshmen Out For Centennial Nine
Prospects Bright With Thirty-five Candidates Out

Freshman baseball prospects look quite promising and a good season is anticipated by Coach Gene McEver. Practice having started very recently, not much can be determined as to who will play the various positions. Some show more promise than others, but the ones who work hardest are the ones who will make the grade, is the verdict of the coaches.

About thirty-five candidates have been reporting for practice for the last week, the majority of which are out to win a post in the outfield. As for the infield, Quick at short and Howard at third show much promise. Dickson and Lanier look good behind the plate and Olschner, Gracey, and McKinney appear to be the best prospects for mound work.

The freshman schedule is as follows: March 29, Belmont Abbey, at Belmont; April 12, Gastonia High at Davidson; 18, Belmont Abbey at Davidson; 27, Gastonia High at Gastonia; 28, Louisburg at Davidson; May 1, Wake Forest freshmen at Wake Forest; 2, Louisburg at Louisburg; 3, Duke freshmen at Durham.

JUNIORS PREPARED FOR A VARIED PROGRAM
(Continued from page 1)

dance. Everyone is urged to be on time. Johnny Long has attained much fame, and has been classed as one of the best college orchestras in the South. He played for the Roosevelt Ball in Raleigh, which was a very distinct success. He has also played for college dances in Virginia and North Carolina. He features the Wayne King type of music, has three vocalists, and has his own amplifying system.

FIRING AT RANDOM
(Continued from page 4)

around whom this year’s aggregation will be built. Leaving the other classes behind in a cloud of dust, the sophomores repeated the victory they earned last year as freshmen, and came out with flying colors in the inter-class track competition held last week. However, they were closely followed by the freshmen, who pushed them all the way and conceded defeat only with the final count.

The meet brought out several new flashes. John Newton, a junior, showed he is a very able weight man and is going to push somebody mighty hard as soon as he is eligible for varsity competition. Walt Dickson was the outstanding star of the Freshman class, and placed second only to Evans in total points. Running the dashes, the high hurdles, and taking his portion of the high jump honors, he is an all-round star and will do more than his share to put the freshmen out in front. Brown, another freshman, also showed up well.

HALVERSTADT WINS TENNIS TOURNEY
(Continued from page 4)

The third set was a repetition of the first and second, with Thompson fighting for every point only to be run off court with well-placed drives and losing the point on Halverstadt overheads that were just not gettable. The match score was 6-0, 6-3, 6-2.

We’d like you to see Chesterfields. We know you'd be impressed by the absolute cleanliness of our factories. The tobaccos are the best that money can buy. Expert chemists test for cleanliness and purity all materials used in any way in the manufacture of Chesterfield cigarettes. The factories are modern throughout. Even the air is changed every 4½ minutes. When you smoke a Chesterfield you can be sure that there isn’t a purer cigarette made.

In a letter to us an eminent scientist says: “Chesterfields are just as pure as the water you drink.”

Inspectors examine Chesterfields as they come from the cigarette making machines and throw out any imperfect cigarettes.

Chesterfield. The cigarette that’s MILDER. The cigarette that TASTES BETTER.

© 1934, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.