THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 14, 1934

Alumni Magazine To Make Initial Appearance Soon

Will Announce Details of Founders’ Day and Centennial Program

ALUMNI MEETS PLANNED

Alumni Are Enthusiastic Over Plans for Founders’ Day

Davidson's first alumni magazine will make its appearance the first week in April, as a part of the celebration of Founders’ Day, April 12. The magazine will be published just before the Founders’ Day dinners which are to be held on the 12th, in order to stimulate interest in the meetings. The magazine will be 24 pages in length and will include the details of the Centennial program, a story on the Founders’ Day celebration, plans for commencement, stories of interest about the faculty and student body, an article on sports at Davidson, alumni marriages, deaths, and personals. The publication will be illustrated with pictures of the campus and buildings.

Thirteen alumni chapters have made definite plans for meetings, either on Founders' Day or shortly thereafter. Speakers from the college will be sent to a number of these meetings. Professor A. Currie, of the political science department, will speak to the alumni of Greensboro and the vicinity at a dinner at the King Cotton Hotel at 6:45 on April 12. Mr. T. D. Dupuy is president of the Greensboro chapter, and Mr. L. L. McAlister is secretary and treasurer.

Captain Norton G. Pritchett, director of athletics, and Coach “Doc” Newton will speak to the alumni of Winston-Salem on the night of April 12. The place and time of the meeting have not been definitely set. Mayor George Coan is president of this local group, and Mr. J. Harold McKeithen is secretary and treasurer.

Other chapters which have made plans for meetings, but which have not arranged speakers, are Atlanta, Orlando, Fla., Charlotte, Gastonia, Greenville, S. C., Jacksonville, Fla., Raeford, Rowan County, Staunton, Va., Washington, and Wilmington.

A speaker for the program at Davidson has not yet been selected. The address will be made at the chapel and it is probable that a half-holiday will be given to the students on that day. Some kind of musical program is being planned for the afternoon of April 12. Station officials at WBT, Charlotte, have been unable to determine whether they will have a vacant time on their schedule for the Founders’ Day program or not. Definite plans about the radio will be announced in the forthcoming issue of the magazine.

Alumni have been enthusiastic in their response to the idea of a Founders’ Day for Davidson. It is expected that the event will be an annual affair for the college. Three years remain before the celebration of the hundredth anniversary of the college, which will take place in 1937.

Class of ’84 Plans Golden Anniversary

The twenty living members of the class of 1884, which holds its fiftieth reunion at commencement, will gather from nine states for their golden anniversary gathering. Almost half of the class, nine, live in North Carolina and three live in Texas. Two reside in South Carolina, and one lives in each of the following states: Tennessee, Louisiana, Wisconsin, District of Columbia, and Florida. A special effort is to be made to get as many as possible of this class back to the campus for the commencement meeting of the Alumni Association.

SENIOR CLASS TO ASK FOR EXTRA PRIVILEGES

(Continued from page 1)

“Second, that all members of the Senior class be allowed to stand examinations at the end of the spring semester one week in advance of the other members of the Student Body.”

The petition was signed by the following seniors: Fred Smyre, president of the class; A. M. Manson, vice-president; W. A. Kirkland, secretary-treasurer, and W. M. Brown, Odi Casali, J. A. Halverstadt, Hugh Hawkins, Mack Holland, A. M. Manson, E. L. Powell, Charlie Rives, W. M. Thompson, W. T. Thompson, Julian West, and E. L. Willson.

Mr. Frank M. Burst, of Baltimore, Maryland, recently underwent a serious operation and is now convalescing at the Maryland General Hospital.

Dr. E. L. Siler recently conducted the prayer services at the Salisbury Presbyterian Church and acted in the capacity of pastor during the absence of Rev. Marshall Woodson, pastor.

The citizens of Mount Olive have been assured...that they are to have a new library and community center. They are desirous that this building shall be a memorial to the late Dr. W. C. Steele who, during the last years of his life, strove to crystallize sentiment that would lead to the establishment of a library for the Mount Olive community.

Dr. Thomas W. Lingle recently delivered a course of lectures in Salisbury on “The Ancient History of the Near East.”

Mr. S. Clay Williams, president of the R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, has been asked by President Roosevelt to serve on the National Consumers Board. At present he is completing a four months’ term as a member of the National Advisory Industrial Board and will begin serving on the National Board at once.

Dr. Ben R. Lacy, Jr., president of the Union Theological Seminary at Richmond, has been secured to preach the baccalaureate sermon to the graduating class of the Woman's College of the University of North Carolina at Greensboro.

Dr. Robert King, of Johnson City, Tenn. recently led a series of revival services at the Presbyterian Church in Salisbury.

WITH THE ALUMNI

Following the running off of the Southern Conference Indoor Track Meet held last weekend at the University of North Carolina, there have appeared many articles complimenting Coach Bob Fetzer on the excellent way he handled the events and the meet in general.

REGISTRAR ANNOUNCES GRADUATING STUDENTS
(Continued from page 1)

Johnson, Charlotte; W. A. Kirkland, Durham; A. B. Kuhn, Davidson; P. J. McElrath, Jr., Bramwell, W. Va.; A. B. McLean, Aberdeen; C. A. McNeill, Davidson; A. H. Manson, Jr., Jacksonville, Fla.; H. W. Marshall, Coatesville, Penn.; F. L. Mock, Lexington; E. W. Morrison, Luray, Va.; R. C. Morrow, Zitacuaro, Mexico; G. T. Newman, Pelham; S. M. Nickey, Jr., Memphis, Tenn.; E. L. Powell, Mobile, Ala.; B. O. Ravenel, Charleston, S. C.; Arnold Ray, Raeford; Raymond Reel, Keyser, W. Va.; W. N. Reid, Greenville, Miss.; A. W. Rice, Salisbury; C. M. Rives, Greensboro; G. C. Robbins, Lenoir; J. H. Robbins, Chester, S. C.; A. F. Schenck, Charlotte; Robert H. Smith, Jr., Dillon, S. C.; F. L. Smyre, Gastonia; E. C. Snead, Cartersville, W. Va.; J. S. Steele, Lafayette, Ga.; J. B. Stevens, Kindall, W. Va.; S. H. Tomlinson, High Point; M. B. Wallace, Jr., Huntersville; J. N. Washam, Graham; J. W. West, Barium Springs; James W. White, Graham; Jack Williams, Waycross, Ga.; E. L. Willson, Jr., Athens, Tenn.; H. A. Wilson, Jr., Lake City, Fla.; J. S. Wilson, Soonchun, Korea.

CONCERT TO BE GIVEN BY LENOIR HIGH BAND
(Continued from page 1)

solo, a cornet solo, a brass quartet and a woodwind quintet. The large instrumentation of the band will enable Davidson listeners to hear a full symphonic band arrangement. The Lenoir band received the members of the Davidson band at its Lenoir concert last week and the members of the Lenoir band are coming to Davidson as the guests of the Davidson band. The program to be rendered is as follows: O Davidson, Bells of Saint Mary's, by Adams, March-Peers of Tolanthe, by Sullivan, Red Mill, by Victor Herbert, a clarinet solo, a cornet solo, Selections from Il Trovatore, by Verdi, a brass quartet, a woodwind quintet, Echoes from the Metropolitan Opera House, arranged by Lake.

GOOD TASTE

In cigarettes, too! So in making Lucky Strike cigarettes we use the finest Turkish and Domestic tobaccos—and only the center leaves—they are the mildest, the smoothest. And every Lucky is so round, so firm, so fully packed—no loose ends. NOT the top leaves—they're underdeveloped—they are harsh. NOT the bottom leaves—they’re inferior in quality—coarse and always sandy!