THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 12, 1934

BRAY MIKES

Bas By Authors Of Latest Volumes

THIRTEEN BOOKS LISTED

Biography, Plays, Fiction, Theology Are Touched

The library has recently purchased a number of new books. Among those that have been put upon the shelves and that are now available are:

Procession of the Gods—Gaius Glenn Atkins.
A story of all religions for all people; an historical account of their rise, their kinship with the soil, their aspirations, their gods, and their failures; a survey of faiths, their relation to each other and to Christianity.

Prince Eugene—Paul Frischauer.
A biography of Prince Eugene, the great military genius of the eighteenth century; an interesting account of the Prince’s hatred of Louis XIV, and of his spectacular triumph over adversity, and his rise to fame.

The Technical Man Sells His Services—Edward Hurst.
Practical, straight talk on how the technical man can apply his scientific training to the problem of job-getting.

The Best Plays of 1933-1934—Burns Mantle.
Includes the ten most representative plays of the year, lists of casts for each performance, number of performances each play has achieved, the statistical summary of the season, and minute biographies of the principal actors and actresses.

The Great Design—Frances Mason.
Fourteen eminent scientists show that the discoveries of science strengthen, not weaken, belief in an infinite Creator.

Italy’s Part in Winning the World War—Col. G. L. McEntee.

Good American Speech—Margaret Prendergast McLean.
A scholarly work on English pronunciation, based on the science of phonetics, for the use of teachers and students of spoken English, Elocution, Public-Speaking, and Dramatic Art.

The Story of Sforzas—L. Collison-Morley.
A dramatic history of the great family, who were Dukes of Milan, and who intermarried with the Medici and the Borgias.

The Puritan Mind—Herbert Wallace Schneider.
The story of how the New England Puritans laid the foundations of the “genteel tradition” and why Puritan idealism degenerated into Yankee self-righteousness.

Prefaces—Bernard Shaw.

Religion Today—Arthur L. Swift.
Fourteen distinguished men representing the Catholic, Jewish, and Protestant churches give a candid appraisal of the religion of today, what it is and what it does.

Columbus, Don Quixote of the Seas—Jacob Wassermann.
A biography of the real Columbus, the dreamer, the man who changed the history of the world; an interesting insight into the real man.

The American Year Book for 1933.

Morley gave a smothered yelp of delight at a luncheon at the University of Minnesota (Minneapolis) the other day when a professor described the difference between a university and an insane asylum. “You have to show improvement to get out of the asylum,” said the professor.

An Offer
The Davidsonian Offers A Year’s Subscription to Students for $1.50—Send It To Your Girl or Friend

‘Run it...”

AT THE LOCAL THEATRE

Wednesday, Dec. 12
WHITE PARADE
This is the picture of the life in a nurses training school. Loretta Young and John Boles play the leads. There are many good scenes showing the real life that nurses lead and how they handle the situations that arise unexpectedly.

Thursday, Dec. 13
THE PURSUIT OF HAPPINESS
This picture gives us an all-star cast, featuring Francis Lederer, one of the latest stars. Joan Bennett plays opposite him. Charlie Ruggles and Mary Boland add the comedy to this picture. The picture has received much favorable criticism and should afford entertainment for all.

Friday, Dec. 14
A WICKED WOMAN
This is the picturization of Mady Christians’ work, “A Wicked Woman” and brings again that unusual young M-G-M star Jean Parker. She gives another fine performance and is supported by Charles Bickford.

Saturday, Dec. 15
BABBITT
Everyone is acquainted with this work of Sinclair Lewis. It brings us again Aline MacMahon and Guy Kibbee who have given very good performances together in the past. The cast includes Aline MacMahon, Guy Kibbee, and Clarice Dodd.

Monday and Tuesday, Dec. 17 and 18
FLIRTATION WALK
This is a picture of the life at West Point and the other places that the cadets of this institution receive their training. It was made with the aid of the academy and shows much of the first-hand cadet life. Dick Powell is the impudent cadet who falls in love with the head officer’s daughter, Ruby Keeler. There are some very good new song hits in this picture and other novelties that should not be missed.

MILITARY GROUP HOLD INITIATION

Scabbard And Blade Initiates Six Seniors In Meeting Wednesday Night

The Davidson chapter of Scabbard and Blade initiated six new men in its formal ceremony on Wednesday night, December 4th. The men, chosen for their excellence in military activities and general leadership on the campus, were all from the senior class: J. M. Douglas, G. L. Green, C. C. Harris, B. L. Rose, R. H. Smith, and Hugh Yelverton. The new men received their pledge ribbons in a special ceremony held in their honor at the R. O. T. C. parade on Monday. The informal initiation on Tuesday featured the boys in blue denim marching with a four-brick pack and staff throughout the day. Reveille was blown at seven A.M. by Bugler, Ben Rose, much to the consternation of the rest of the student body, and at chapel the initiates staged a forced march around the hall. Guard duty, including the cleaning of the Scabbard and Blade rooms, was in order immediately after the Georgia-Watts tilt. The initiation was ended by the formal ceremony at 7:15 Wednesday night.

Dr. Price H. Gwynn To Speak Sunday Morning

Dr. Price H. Gwynn, professor of sociology and educational psychology at Davidson, will deliver the morning message at the Davidson Presbyterian Church on Sunday, December 16th. Dr. Gwynn will preach on Faith, taking his text from Hebrew 11:1. The Davidson Church gives up a third Sunday each month to a visiting minister selected by the college. Dr. Talliaferro Thompson was the visiting preacher for October and Rev. Jim Appleby for November.

Although there were no deputations made by the Y. M. C. A. last week, some will be made in the near future, which as yet have not been definitely planned. The Y is still carrying on the Freshman receptions, as it has done in the past, for the benefit of the Freshmen themselves, to get them interested in Y work, to let them know each other better, and to let them be known better by the members of the Y. Every week invitations are sent out to about fifteen members of the Freshman class for these receptions. It is the regret of the Y secretary, A. B. McClure, that the men have not been responding to these invitations, either by showing their acceptance by coming, or showing their refusal by some note of regret. The secretary wishes that every man who cannot come to a reception will please show his refusal by some means or other, as it is very difficult to prepare a feed for a group when it is not known how many will be there.

The State Y. M. C. A. Cabinet convened in Raleigh last weekend. Don Brandon was sent from Davidson as a representative to assist in making plans and in the discussions. Although the Davidson Y is not in close association with the Cabinet, it tries to keep in touch with it as much as is possible.

The ping pong tournament had progressed to the final matches at the time that “The Davidsonian” went to press. The final matches were played Tuesday afternoon between Bill Bell and Bob Coit. The Y. M. C. A. vespers will take the place of the evening church services. At this Christmas vespers the music department will combine to offer a service that attracts many to the college each year. This program will be broadcast over Station WBT of Charlotte through its remote control facilities.

Examination Schedule—Session 1934-35—First Semester

COLLEGE PAPER HAS NEW RIVAL

Town Journalists Renew Newspaper Publication Begun Six Years Ago

WUXTRY! If you want the news read “The Davidson Weekly”, The Mirror of the World and greatest rival of “The Davidsonian”, another weekly journal of Davidson township. Send your subscription to either Bob Wood, Editor, or Frank Caldwell, business manager. The price is three cents a copy and if you subscribe for eight weeks you may get it a cent cheaper. Such is the economy of Wood, Caldwell and Co.

Bob Wood is the sonProfessor and Mrs. W. W. Wood. His father teaches applied mathematics at Davidson College. Frank Caldwell is the son of J. R. Caldwell, manager of the hardware division of the Goodrum store. The paper custom, says Editor Wood, was started by Carlisle Lewis (Davidson, '36) about six years ago. The enterprise evidently proving lucrative, Wood took it up about a year later, assisted by a staff of embryonic journalists: Caldwell, Ed Shewmake, Id. Jackson, Bill and Lewis Wood, and Jimmy Fulcher. Too many employees and the NRA almost put the business on the rocks, so Caldwell, Jackson, Shewmake, and Wood, all sons of Davidson professors, bought out the others and the paper was run on that basis. Difficulties were still encountered and we find in the number of March 26, 1934, a headline reading “Davidson Weekly to Discontinue Soon” and later on a definite announcement: “This is the Last Issue of The Davidson Weekly.” A big business deal, involving further concentration of business into the hands of a few, revived the enterprise and put the paper into the hands of Caldwell and Wood who now carry on. At one time, however, the paper was so profitable that a model T Ford was bought by the partners. Examination of the files shows that the newspaper contains many of the essentials of good journalism. The editors exhibit their civic concern in an editorial on the possible replacement of Dr. Thurman, pastor of the local Methodist church. It pointed out the value of the minister to the town and lamented the possibility of his leaving. It backs up the High School 125-pound football team and one announcement reads: “All High School Football players report for practice this afternoon.” The art staff obliges with pictures of distinguished personages besides the juveniles in the news. They include: Doctor Shewmake, Set. “Curby,” Miss James, teacher; Mr. Jackson, President Roosevelt, Rev. Myers, and Bill Quick, coach of basketball. The articles are interesting and the humor is astounding. “Kurious Ken,” a weekly comic by Ed. Shewmake, comes out one week with: “This morning I felt so good I thought I could move a mountain and when I got on the highway I really did pull up a hill.” Another sparkle of Kurious Ken is a picture of Ken jumping over a horse nonchalantly. Proof:—NORTON'S BARBER SHOP. WE APPRECIATE YOUR BUSINESS DURING SOCIAL FUNCTIONS. When you want to look your best, come to NORTON'S and we'll do the rest... Shave or a haircut—two bits. Showing absolutely no favoritism whatsoever they advertise: JOHNSON'S BARBER SHOP. NINE OUT OF TEN COME HERE. When you go to see your gal, Johnson’s shop will be your pal... Come up and see us some time. They conclude their arguments with “Recitations will close Wednesday, January 16 at 12:30 P.M.”

Clayton Cochran, son of Captain and Mrs. Cochran, will return from Georgia Military Academy, where he is a student, to spend the holidays with his parents. Miller Cochran will also be in Davidson for the holidays. Heistand Scott, of Fort Benning, Georgia, visited Miss Helen DeVane this past week. Miss Scott is the daughter of Lt.-Col. Scott who was formerly of the R.O.T.C. Department of Davidson College.

STATIONERY CALLING CARDS PROGRAMS PRINTING CO. 1143 E. FOURTH ST. Fine Printing QUEEN CITY Printers of THE DAVIDSONIAN, and of the DAVIDSON COLLEGE ALUMNI JOURNAL CHARLOTTE, N.C.

YOU'LL BE HAPPY IN HANES! Shorts... Shirts... Union Suits P. H. HANES KNITTING COMPANY WINSTON-SALEM

IVEY-GRAM Ivey's is ready to satisfy your every Christmas whim. Last week Ivey’s completed their Holiday supply of the latest fashions and clever knick-knacks. I would suggest that the next time you are in the “Queen City” that you stop in at Ivey's and purchase your more important Christmas gifts. Below in rather an impressionistic form you will find listed some of the things that struck me as being ideal gifts.

FOR DAD That lounge suit over there on the counter... the flannel one with regimental stripes in silk grosgrain serving as trim on the trousers, cuffs, and pockets. I know Dad would like that; and look at those beautiful sheer cambric handkerchiefs, especially that one with the embroidered initial and that oversized polka-dotted one. Those striped ties, please... I especially like that blue and white all-over pattern Macclesfield. The woven wools are awfully pretty too... and those rough knitted ties. Those deep pile house slippers look nice and warm.

FOR MOTHER After all, Christmas is another form of Mother's Day and Mother is probably the only one to whom it is fitting to present a picture of your homely mug at Christmas time. A nice way to surround the bright and shining countenance is a frame of bright blue glazed leather, hand-tooled and from Morocco. And if the pocketbook is bursting over with wealth, why not purchase the entire dressing table set to match the picture frame... perfumes, silk hosiery, a sewing kit, bath sets, matched cards, linen, and numerous other things that escape my mind at present.

FOR YOURSELF Yes, you may as well think of what you want for Christmas and then tactfully suggest it at home and thus get what you want instead of having to exchange afterwards. Light yellow balloon silk scarves for evening wear... (Get one for Sophomore weekend) hound’s tooth wool muffler... one of printed cashmere... and any number of plaid ones. Never do get enough shirts and handkerchiefs... Oxford shirt with button-down collar... round collar attached shirt... short pointed collar attached shirt... Striped ties... might swap with Dad... wool hose in stripes and plaids... pullovers of pure cashmere... regimental braces with sock supporters to match... silk pajamas and lounge robes... anything else not mentioned here can no doubt be found at Ivey’s.

MERRY CHRISTMAS Ivey’s takes this opportunity to wish each Davidson student and every reader of the DAVIDSONIAN a Christmas packed full of happiness and good cheer and the best of luck for 1935.

Rev. Plummer Smith, on furlough from Africa, addressed the students of the Davidson High School Saturday, December 8. Rev. Smith, a graduate of Davidson College, exhibited slides and a collection of native weapons.

MERRY XMAS Dyke Out in Holiday Style with New Wool Plaid and Rabbit Fur Ties Price 65c RAY HARRISON