THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 14, 1934

MANY ALUMNI SEE TAR HEELS DEFEAT ’CATS 12-2

In the Field of Sports

V. M. I. AND DAVIDSON MEET ON RICHARDSON FIELD SATURDAY

Davidson has won only two games on the gridiron this fall, but her supporters have left the stands after every contest highly satisfied with the way the Wildcats performed. This was true after Duke took the long end of a 20-0 score in the Richardson Field battle of a few weeks ago and again Saturday when the North Carolina eleven squeezed out a 12-2 victory over the ‘Cats. The Newton-McEver machine has had a tough row to hoe since September 29th, but I've heard no complaint from any side about the record they have made. Those who have seen the Presbyterians play this season will agree that no opponent has fought as courageously and persistently as Davidson, and despite their several defeats they have proved themselves worthy to represent any college the size of Davidson. Coach Carl Snavely remarked after the game Saturday that the Wildcats weren't the best team he had met this year, but they were the hardest fighting opposition his boys had encountered.

Mr. Joe Johnston kindled the Wildcat spirit for the Tar Heel engagement by his pep-inspiring talk at Friday night’s Shearer Hall gathering. This genial president of the Alumni Association was one of the pioneer grid warriors at Davidson, playing center back in the days when the game wasn’t so polite as it is now. He very cleverly analyzed the Davidson team by choosing Wildcat Potter to look after Carolina’s (Bar)clay, Davidson’s Fort was pointed out as a place of refuge, and he reminded Wildcat supporters that he had never seen a Mackorell canned. Just as the words on a gold football that adorns the alumni head’s watch chain say he is “a real Wildcat,” which is not proved simply by the spirited speech he made Friday, but also is it manifested by a continual flow of football talent that has come to Davidson from Barium Springs as a result of Mr. Johnston's influence. “Hey! Johnston, here's a great big hand.”

Dick Piper, sports editor of The Duke (University) Chronicle writes a very interesting column in his school paper, and in the issue of Nov. 6, he makes the following statement about future schedules for Duke grid aggregations:

“Everyone, from dean to student, agrees with us that Duke has little to gain and everything to lose when our elevens play Davidson or Wake Forest. It is true that those schools would rather defeat Duke than win every other game on their schedule. Davidson was soundly beaten by Army, 41 to 0, and returned to Carolina to prime for us by holding open the Saturday we played Tech, resting and devising ways to upset us. Yet when we defeated them 20 to 0 we got no more than a bad injury to our outstanding linesman, and a hard game with no recognition.”

He went on to say that it was only fair to the members of the Duke team for the athletic directors and Coach Wade to drop these two Big Five teams from the schedule and arrange games with more formidable opponents, which would give the Blue Devils something worth working for. We at Davidson very readily recognize the irrevocable superiority of Duke teams to those representing the Red and Black, but I’m afraid Mr. Piper was “blowing-off” a trifle when he wrote that clause about Davidson being willing to sacrifice victory in all of her other games in order to lick the Dukes. It would be much nicer for the Wildcats to defeat either Carolina or Wake Forest once than to win three or four engagements from the lads from Durham. Someone remarked after the game Saturday, that the pants of (Continued on Page 5, Col 4)

WILDCATS WILL FACE V. M. I. ON LOCAL GRIDIRON

Cadet Eleven Will Invade Davidson To Continue Traditional Struggle

VISITORS ARE STRONG

Have Broken Even In Former Relations; Eight Wins Each

The Davidson Wildcat eleven will meet V. M. I. on Richardson field at 2:30 next Saturday afternoon, Nov. 17, in its last game before Thanksgiving. This game will feature two strong but much-defeated elevens in a 30-year-old rivalry. V. M. I. has only chalked up one victory this season and has been defeated six times, but they have fought close games each time against strong opposition. The Cadets scored against Navy and defeated William and Mary by a 13-6 count. V. M. I. has “unquestionably the strongest team in recent years,” says Captain Pritchett. “A heavy, powerful, and experienced eleven that will require the Wildcats to use all their power to win.” The Cadets have a strong line and a “highly-polished” running attack. Their star backfield men are: Meredith Urick, Wayt Clark, and Bo McMillin, three fine ball carriers; and Tucker Watkins, an equally good blocking back. Davidson will have the advantage of a week's rest while the Cadets met Maryland at Baltimore in an Armistice Day game last Monday. The invading eleven will arrive Friday afternoon, probably in time for a workout. A special ticket price to alumni and their families has been made for this game. All Davidson graduates may obtain tickets at a reduced price if they make reservations before the tickets go on sale.

Davidson has played V. M. I. sixteen times since 1904. The results so far are unusual, there being exactly eight victories for each team. The teams have never played a tie game and yet there has rarely been more than a one touchdown victory either way. Davidson has won for the last three years. A summary of the V. M. I.-Davidson games follows:

1904—V. M. I. 6 Davidson 0
1905—V. M. I. 6 Davidson 8
1906—V. M. I. 0 Davidson 0
1907—V. M. I. 6 Davidson 10
1909—V. M. I. 0 Davidson 8
1911—V. M. I. 5 Davidson 0
1917—V. M. I. 7 Davidson 23
1919—V. M. I. 14 Davidson 21
1926—V. M. I. 12 Davidson 13
1927—V. M. I. 20 Davidson 0
1928—V. M. I. 13 Davidson 0
1929—V. M. I. 12 Davidson 6
1930—V. M. I. 6 Davidson 0
1931—V. M. I. 0 Davidson 14
1932—V. M. I. 0 Davidson 12
1933—V. M. I. 0 Davidson 6

FELIX PREDICTS

Davidson, State, and Yale, hit the line for no gain last Saturday and brought three touchbacks to Felix and his Forecast sheet. Somewhat elated, and feeling lucky to have escaped with only three errors, Felix decided to celebrate the occasion with 29 dazzling predictions for this week's column. Here they are:

DAVIDSON vs. V. M. I., GEORGIA vs. N. C. State, RICHMOND vs. Wake Forest, FURMAN vs. South Carolina, CLEMSON vs. Mercer, ARMY vs. Citadel, V. P. I. vs. Virginia, W. & L. vs. W. & M., SEWANEE vs. Cumberland, ALABAMA vs. Georgia Tech, MARYLAND vs. Indiana, TENNESSEE vs. Vanderbilt, L. S. U. vs. Miss, TULANE vs. Kentucky, AUBURN vs. Florida, PITT vs. Navy, COLUMBIA vs. Penn, BUCKNELL vs. W. Maryland, FORDHAM vs. Purdue, COLGATE vs. Syracuse, HOLY CROSS vs. Brown, VILLANOVA vs. Manhattan, HARVARD vs. New Hampshire, DARTMOUTH vs. Cornell, NOTRE DAME vs. Northwestern, ILLINOIS vs. Wisconsin, MINNESOTA vs. Chicago, WASHINGTON U. vs. Missouri, DUQUESNE vs. Carnegie Tech.

Davidson Halfback Expects Team To Win Both Games

“I believe that the football squad will work harder than ever for victories in their last two games,” said Joe “Boody” Wingfield when interviewed this week. “If the present spirit is kept up, we should be able to win both games. In general, I think the chances on both games are about equal.”

Wingfield is in a position to tell about the chances of his team. Since coming to Davidson from Reidsville, Wingfield has been a member of the famous Mackorell-Wingfield-Hutchins triumvirate which has been the means of bringing in many victories for the Wildcats. He is known as the hardest working man on the squad, and the results of his application have shown up in his outstanding blocking, running, and passing.

As Wingfield sees it, the chief trouble with the Wildcats lately has been an inconsistent offense. The defense against much heavier teams has been excellent, but a good amount of work will have to be done on the offense before the team will be in shape to win from V. M. I. and Wake Forest.

Concerning the Davidson coaching staff Wingfield made the following statement: “In my opinion Coach McEver is one of the best backfield coaches in the south. Coach Newton has done wonders with the light material he has had to work with. When Newton and McEver get their heads together and think up a defensive formation, it’s good. They are real defensive coaches.”

Simons is the best back that Wingfield has come up against this year. Buckler was also quite a threat. He thinks that Parker is, with the exception of Mackorell, the most versatile back in the state.

Foe Wingfield And J. B. Lee Give Their Opinions On Game

’Cat Center Is Optimistic About Remaining Contests

J. B. Lee, pivot man on the Wildcats this fall, has had the hardest position on the team to fill. He made his letter last year in competition with McElrath and West, and this year the burden descended directly on him when the other two graduated. In spite of his light weight he has held down the position very well. Concerning the V. M. I. game this Saturday, Lee says that it will turn out in a Davidson victory, if the team will not get over-confident, as they did at the Citadel game. “If we can only play as we played against Carolina or Duke,” he said, “we can take our next two games in fine style.”

Lee thinks that a large part of what success Davidson has had in football during the past two years has been due to Coaches Newton and McEver. “I've been coached for eight years,” he said, “but these coaches have taught me more of the tricks of the game than any others. They are very thorough in teaching the fundamentals of the game.”

Along the line of predictions, Lee picks Duke to win easily over Carolina this Saturday. He thinks Duke has the better team and is a cinch to win the Big Five championship. Of all the centers he has met this season Lee picks Clifford of Army as the best. Barclay ofNorth Carolina did almost as well in backing up the line. The best linemen he has seen include Barclay, Jack Dunlap of Duke, and Durner, also of Duke. Lee says that Ray Rex of State is the hardest man to stop he has ever seen. He also rates Buckler of Army, Parker of Duke, and Hutchins of Carolina at the top of the list of ball carriers.

Davidson Foremost Among Nation’s Early Grid Teams
Numbered Army, Navy, Auburn And Georgia Tech On Football Schedules
PASS ATTACK NOTED
Davidson First In Country To Develop Forward Pass

Continuing the “History of Football at Davidson” begun last week, the annuals tell us of the conditions under which early teams played. Equipment was not plentiful and rarely was more than one substitute taken on a trip. Yet Davidson was at this time one of the foremost colleges in the country as regards football, numbering Army, Navy, Auburn and Georgia Tech on its schedules.

George Stevens, a graduate of Carolina living in Charlotte, coached the first few teams and Dr. Martin assisted in after years. In 1900 we note the arrival of the first regular coach, Coach Brewin. The annual says of this: “Davidson has learned many things this year about football but more than anything else—a coach is ‘sine qua non’ to a successful team.”

Dr. J. W. McConnell, the present college physician, played on the 1900 team and was manager in 1901. In 1903, W. M. Fetzer, afterwards a Davidson coach, was captain and Dr. Ben Lacy was quarterback. Players in those days could evidently “take it.” Dr. Douglas relates that it was the usual order for Davidson to play William and Mary on Saturday and Washington and Lee the following Monday. The records show that Davidson usually won both these games. It was also the custom to play Georgia University on Saturday and Georgia Tech the following Monday.

The prize story of endurance, however, is told by Dr. Douglas of Furman, who in one year played Davidson on Friday, U. N. C. on Saturday, N. C. State on Monday and beat all three of them. Rarely, says Prof. Blythe, were over fourteen men taken on a trip. Prominent players in those days were Drs. McCoy, Peeler and Matheson, now of Charlotte, who attended a medical school at Davidson which combined with Davidson in athletics. Prof. Blythe tells of two 225-pound tackles, Lentz and Whittaker, from this school. J. B. Johnson, now president of the Alumni Association, and A. A. MacFadyen, now missionary to China, played on teams of this period. Both of the latter men have sons in college now.

VARSITY PAJAMAS at Ray Harrison’s Price $1.55

FIGHTING WILDCATS BOW TO TAR HEELS
DUKE DEFEATS FRESHMEN 14-8
Game Featured By Long Runs; Hogan, Williams, Fisher And Hackney Star

Duke's powerful and heavy frosh overwhelmed the hard-fighting Wildkittens, 14-6, last Friday before a good crowd of students and alumni. The Duke Imps made their first counter in the second quarter after a brilliant goal-line defense by the ’Kittens. The second quarter opened with the ball in Duke’s possession on Davidson's 25-yard line. A pass, Hackney to Fisher, brought it to the Davidson five. Here the Kittens stiffened and stopped the powerful threat on the 1-foot line. Hogan’s punt was blocked behind his goal and Eakin fell on the ball for a touchdown. Cooper kicked the point after.

Later in the quarter, the Davidson frosh seriously threatened as a result of a pass, Hogan to Harrison, which netted 40 yards. Hackney intercepted a pass on his 5-yard line, intended for Nicholson, to halt the drive. Then Harvison returned Hackney’s punt to the Duke 32 and paved the way for the ’Kitten score. On the first down, Hogan passed to Lafferty who raced 25 yards to cross the goal standing up. The half ended with the score: Duke 7, Davidson 6.

During the half, the student body engaged in the usual peanut battle with no serious casualties reported. The second half opened with a series of fumbles by both teams. Duke recovered Dennis’ fumble on the Davidson 24 and carried it to the 12-yard stripe. Here Hogan intercepted Clark’s pass on his own goal line and dashed 60 yards down the sidelines before he was tackled by Clark. Duke held the ’Kittens for four downs and the ball remained in midfield for the remainder of the third quarter.

A determined drive led by Hackney brought the ball to the Davidson 20-yard line in the fourth period. On the first down, Smith drove through the center of the line, scurried 20 yards through the Davidson secondary and crossed the goal with no one near him. The ’Kittens were called on to make another goal-line stand after the kick-off. Hogan’s kick on second down was partially blocked, going out of bounds on his 25-yard line. Hackney again led the attack which advanced the ball to the Davidson five. The 'Kittens held and Hogan kicked to the Duke 45. The ball remained in midfield for the rest of the quarter and after an exchange of punts the game ended with the ball on Davidson’s 30-yard line.

Hogan, Wildkitten captain and halfback, was the outstanding threat on his team. His phenomenal punting, together with his hard running and accurate passing drew much favorable comment from the spectators. Lafferty and Harrison were also outstanding in the Davidson backfield and Freeman and Williams showed up well in the line. Hackney was the spark-plug of the Duke attack together with Clark and Linemen Fisher and Eakin.

The line-ups:
Davidson Pos. Duke
Nichol LE Fisher
Freeman LT Bowers
Grey LG Hargrove
Brown C Eakin
Mathis RG Bennett
Graham RT Hartness
Williams RE Lafferty
Hogan QB Hudgins
Harrison HB Smith
Dennis HB Clark
FB Earngy

VICKS MEDICATED COUGH DROPS
Medicated with ingredients of Vicks VapoRub relief.

Bring Home-Coming Crowd Sees Davidson Defeated By North Carolina Team
RAIN MARS CONTEST
Mackorell, Wingfield, Siewers And Morgan Star For Davidson

Before a Home-coming crowd of ten thousand spectators, the Davidson College gridiron aggregation Saturday afternoon held the highly touted University of North Carolina eleven to a 12-2 score. The Wildcats garnered their two points early in the second quarter, and the Tar Heels came back to get six for themselves before the first half ended. In the third period, Carolina put over another touchdown, and the score remained 12-2 until the final whistle.

Johnny Mackorell, Davidson quarterback, was the spearhead of his team’s attack, turning in a nice game both offensively and defensively. He was very ably assisted by “Joe” Wingfield in the backfield, and Johnny Siewers, Jim Morgan, and “Big Six” Johnston, in the line. Don Jackson led the Tar Heel onslaught, paving the way for both touchdowns by his bullet-like passes and superb running. His teammates Jim Hutchins and “Monty” Montgomery, a pair of fast-stepping leather luggers, also covered a good deal of ground in their afternoon invasion. In the Carolina line, Captain George Barclay, Jim Tatum, Dick Buck and Eddie Kahn showed up best.

Johnny Siewers, Wildcat tackle, created a mild sensation by nailing Tar Heel punt receivers in their tracks on all but two occasions. Soon after the second quarter began, Johnny Mackorell punted to Jackson who was downed on the Carolina five-yard line by Johnny Siewers. Montgomery got three yards on a left end run, and on the next play Jackson dropped back behind the goal line to punt, but a bad pass from center made it impossible for him to kick, and in an effort to run out of danger he was smothered in the end zone by several Wildcats, giving Davidson a safety and two points.

The Tar Heels then opened up a determined attack, which after very effective thrusts at the Wildcat line and an 18-yard pass from Jackson to Buck McCarn, Tar Heel flankman, put them on Davidson’s 30-yard line. Hutchins then took the leather to the 20, Jackson made 3 more around end, and Montgomery went over from the six for the first touchdown. Daniel tried to kick the extra point from placement, but it was knocked wide by a Davidson lineman.

To open the second half, the Newtonites pulled an onside kick. The ball was being held for Mackorell to kick off and Paul Pittman, who had entered the game for Dewey Hutchins, came up from one side and kicked the ball to the side of the field where Coley Windham fell on the ball, giving it to Davidson on Carolina’s 45-yard line. They were forced to punt, however, before gaining a first down. There were two exchanges of punts before Carolina began a sustained drive from her own 14-yard line. With halfback Hutchins carrying the ball on ten out of twelve successive plays, featuring two gains one for 27 yards and another for 16, the ball was driven to Davidson’s 4, from which point Jackson went over to make the score 12-2 in Carolina’s favor. Daniel again failed on his attempted conversion.

The ’Cats showed their best offensive form in the fourth quarter, when they made three first downs, the only ones they garnered during the contest. Johnny Mackorell and “Joe” Wingfield did most of the toting in this ground-gaining spree. The Wildcat captain got loose for two nice gains of 9 and 12 yards, and “Joe” took a side-wheeling jaunt around end for 17 yards. The Davidson passing attack was molested by a thunder shower that fell a few minutes before the opening kick-off. More rain fell during the final quarter also.

(Continued on Page 5, Column 4)

WORKMANSHIP AND SERVICE AT NORTON'S BARBER SHOP