WELCOME ALUMNI! LINGLE EXTENDS CAMPUS GREETINGS

The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX U ORTA LIBERTAS

WELCOME ALUMNI! CAROLINA-DAVIDSON GAME FEATURED

Vol. XXII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., NOVEMBER 7, 1934 No. 7

SIX SENIORS TAPPED BY O. D. K. AT EXERCISE

DAVIDSON, CAROLINA GAME TO BE FEATURE OF HOME-COMING DAY

Alumni And Families Will Have Informal Banquet

BAND TO GIVE CONCERT

Pan-Hellenic Council Will Sponsor Dance Saturday

With the football game with the University of North Carolina as the feature of the day, Davidson College again will be the host to a great number of her alumni who will return to the campus for the day next Saturday, November tenth. A special attraction of the day will be that a great deal of the formality which is usually a burden to those returning for the day will be dropped. There will be no formal meetings, speeches, or elections which are usually a part of the day’s program.

A new feature has been added this year to the usual program. This feature is the concert by the Davidson concert band under the direction of Prof. James Christian Pfohl. This is the band’s first concert of the year and is being looked forward to with great interest by those interested in music on the campus and among the alumni.

There will be an informal gathering and alumni registration in the Faculty Room of Chambers Building at 10 o’clock, followed at 11:45 by the band concert. At 12:30 the alumni and their families will meet in the Banquet Hall of Chambers for an informal dinner, the price for each plate will be fifty cents. Mr. Joseph Johnston, President of the Alumni Association will act as toastmaster for this occasion.

At 2:30 the football game with Carolina will begin. This game is expected to be a close, hard-fought game and neither team will win by a large score, if all indications are correct. Both the Davidson and the Carolina bands will be on hand to add color to the game, and a capacity crowd is expected to fill Richardson field. An unusually large crowd is expected for the game. Among the well-known visitors will be President Frank Graham, of the University of North Carolina; Charles A. Cannon, President of the Kannapolis Mills, Kannapolis; R. A. Dunn, President of the Davidson Board of Trustees, and President of the Commercial National Bank of Charlotte; and H. T. Mills, of Greenville, S. C.

Saturday evening the Pan-Hellenic Council will sponsor an informal dance in the Armory Auditorium in Charlotte.

College Organizations Buy Movie Equipment

The college authorities have ordered a moving picture camera to be used in the recording of the campus activities of the college. This purchase was made possible through the cooperation of the Athletic Association, Alumni Association, and the college itself. The camera will use standard sixteen millimeter film, one-half the width of movie films used in theaters. It was manufactured by the Bell-Howell company, who are considered the leading makers of moving picture cameras in the country. This firm also makes expensive cameras used in professional work.

The camera is capable of taking pictures at seven different speeds, ranging all the way down to extreme slow motion pictures. It is also equipped with a special telescopic lens, which will make it possible to get detailed pictures of football games. The Athletic Association intends to use the camera to make slow motion pictures of athletes in action. These pictures will be shown to athletes in various sports, enabling the coaches to point out errors and illustrate the proper form. The Alumni Association will use the camera to record different phases of college life for exhibition to alumni groups. It is hoped that this graphic representation of college life will help to arouse the interest of the alumni.

Mr. and Mrs. F. D. Hobart and children have returned from a two weeks’ vacation trip.

New Type Of Paper Is Adopted In This Issue

Beginning with this issue, “The Davidsonian” will be printed on a different texture of paper from that which it has been printed on for so many years. The issues throughout the rest of the school year will come to you on “news print” paper and not on the customary book paper. The “news print” is the type of paper that is used most commonly by nearly all the daily papers and leading college papers. This change is being made in the belief that it will improve the appearance of “The Davidsonian” and thus stimulate more interest in the paper. This change has not been made before because there was some question as to whether or not annual cuts would show up clearly on this type of paper. However, due to the small number of annual cuts that are used this objection has been removed, and whenever this kind of cut is used the new type of paper will be of such quality as will print them clearly.

INITIAL PROGRAM GIVEN FROM HILL

Band Presents Interesting Radio Program From Chambers Auditorium

The first radio program that has ever originated directly from Davidson College was broadcast from Chambers auditorium last Friday night at nine o'clock. Grier Martin, publicity director, was master of ceremonies at the unique inauguration of a series of broadcasts over station WBT in Charlotte. A direct wire was installed last week after a lengthy period of negotiations between college authorities and various wire concerns. At last a type of wire was found which seemingly would serve the purpose, but an expert recommended that more expensive wire be used. Recently, however, the Columbia broadcasting system authorized WBT to aid in the installation of the system and the cost to the college was reduced substantially. At a meeting of the Executive committee, it was agreed to furnish the necessary funds.

An interesting and varied program of musical selection was rendered by the band, orchestra, and glee club at the first presentation. Dr. Walter Lingle, president of the college, addressed the radio audience and discussed future programs to be presented by the college. The concert band composed of 64 members gave two selections, “El Capitan” and “Colonel Bogey”, both famous marches. James Christian Pfohl, head of the music department, gave two selections on the three-manual Skinner organ. They were “Traumeri” by Schumann and “Love’s Old Sweet Song” by Molloy. Other features of the broadcast were three presentations by the glee club and two numbers by the Salon orchestra.

Prof. Fleagle Elected To High Masonic Order

Prof. F. K. Fleagle, of the Spanish Department, was recently accorded the honor of election to the National Masonic organization of Grand College of Rites. The Grand College of Rites of the United States is limited to a membership of one hundred. Its duty is to confer those of the three hundred Masonic degrees that are not recognized by other Masonic organizations. The next meeting will be held in Alexandria, Va., in the month of February, 1935. Prof. Fleagle was also accorded the honor of initiation into the Masonic Order of Rose Crucians at Duke University, Saturday, Sept. 8.

PEP MEETING TO BE BIGGEST AND BEST OF SEASON

Joseph Johnston From Barium Springs To Give Main Pep Talk Of Evening

BIG SHIRT-TAIL PARADE, Songs And Yells Around Bonfire Will Close Gathering

The next pep meeting, on Friday 9, the day before Homecoming, promises to be one of the biggest and best of the year. The first stage of this pep meeting will take place in Shearer Hall at 7 o'clock. This part of the meeting will be conducted by the cheer leaders in the usual manner. Joseph Johnston, of Barium Springs, who has often spoken in Davidson in past years, has been secured to make the principal pep talk. The coaches and the members of the football team will be called upon for brief talks.

After this part of the meeting, the band will form outside Shearer Hall with the freshmen behind forming a shirt-tail parade. In this manner the student body will file around the “D”, past Chambers, down toward the fraternity court, and out on the freshmen field. There, the second stage of the pep meeting will take place around a huge bonfire. More songs led by the band, yells led by the cheer leaders, and probable other talks will conclude the meeting. Since the Davidson-Carolina football game is a Big Five game and one of the greatest interest to all, and due to the general spirit of Homecoming, this pep meeting will be, in all probability, the largest and best so far of the football season.

Yowl Makes Its First Appearance This Week

The first issue of the Yowl will appear the latter part of this week, according to Editor Lorenzo McPhail. It may be possible for the students to secure their copies of the humorous publication Thursday night. And, barring accident, they are certain to receive the Yowl sometime during the last of the week. The proofs, rough printings of the plates, were examined early last week by the editors. This year there will be an innovation in the make-up of the cover. The background will remain the same in every issue, but the cartoon and subject matter in their respective boxes will differ each time. The color scheme for the first issue is red and black in two shades, one of which is lighter than the regular school colors. All students who desire extra copies of the Yowl for relatives and friends may secure them for 25c per copy.

HONOR RATING IS GIVEN ANNUAL BY N. S. P. ASSOCIATION

Senior Class Publication Given 855 Points Out Of Possible 1,000

RATING IS EXCELLENT

Judges Praise Theme Development And Campus Views

First Class Honor, the or “excellent” is the rating that has been given the Davidson College annual, “Quips and Cranks,” for 1934, according to an announcement just received from the National Scholastic Press Association, of Minneapolis, Minn. This Senior Class publication won a total of 855 points out of a possible 1,000. Fred L. Kildow, director of the association, says any college which receives this honor rating can be proud of the achievement, for he points out that scores in general, are low.Earlier this year than usual. The official scorebook comments, “excellent theme development.” The judges were impressed by the “beautiful campus views,” that of Eumenean Hall drawing special attention because it “shows student life.” This is a picture of George Gullette and Henry Hodgin, '34, in front of the literary society hall. The faculty section was complimented and the senior section marked, “splendidly done.” Other sections which drew favorable comment were campus activities, fraternities, organizations, and the beauty section. The highest possible score was awarded in all mechanical departments: printing, engraving, photography, and cover.

WBT May Broadcast Last Quarter Of Game

The final quarter of the Davidson-Carolina game on next Saturday may be broadcast over station WBT. No definite plans have been made as yet and it will not be known definitely until the last of the week whether the game will be broadcast. The Columbia Broadcasting System broadcasts some large game each Saturday afternoon. The game that they will broadcast next Saturday has not been selected, but there is a possibility that it will end before the Davidson-Carolina encounter is over. If this happens, station WBT will broadcast the final period of this game. Skip Brown will broadcast the game from Richardson Field, the microphone being attached to the amplifying system that is used at all of the Davidson home games. This broadcast from Richardson Field is made possible by the installation of the extension wire from WBT which was used for the first time for the Weekly Davidson Broadcast last week.

Home-Coming Is Old Custom Kept Annually At Davidson

Homecoming Day! What a number of thoughts this brings to mind. The reunion of students and alumni. A day when old classmates meet again. A day of friendship. The Carolina game. No classes! Its origin must lie buried in the traditions of the campus, one would think. Yet Homecoming Day in its present-day sense is a recent institution at Davidson. The first official Homecoming Day of Davidson College was held on October 21, 1922. The Wildcat eleven met V. P. I. on Sprunt field. All alumni were “urged and invited” to visit their Alma Mater on this day and to renew old acquaintances. Its purpose, as one writer editorially put it, was, “A day set aside when the student meets the alumni, classmates meet classmates, and fathers see their sons in the light of fellowmen instead of as children. Throughout the whole day a feeling of friendship and good feeling was felt on the campus.”

WELCOMES ALUMNI “EXCELLENT”

But it was not until 1925 that Homecoming Day really became the day that we know today. This was the first time Davidson College Day and Homecoming Day were combined. Davidson College Day dates back into the dark past, seemingly having been in existence as long as the school itself. It corresponded a good bit to our Homecoming of today minus a good bit of the celebration. But it was only when the two were consolidated that Homecoming Day reached its full growth. It was in this year of 1925 that Davidson bowed to the Carolina invaders 6-0, the result of two field goals. A list of results of the Homecoming Day games since 1922 are as follows:

1922 Davidson 1923 Davidson 1924 Davidson 1925 Davidson 1926 Davidson 1927 Davidson 1928 Davidson 1929 Davidson 1930 Davidson 1931 Davidson 1932 Davidson 1933 Davidson 1934 Davidson

Dr. Walter Lingle extends a greeting to all the alumni of Davidson who are returning to their Alma Mater for Homecoming.

LINGLE GREETS ALUMNI GUESTS

President Welcomes Returning Graduates To Campus For Homecoming Day

Here’s a hearty welcome to the Alumni and friends of Davidson College who trek back to the old College on Homecoming Day next Saturday. There will be no elaborate programs. There will be a fine opportunity to renew old friendships and form some new ones. Each year members of the graduating class, as the last act in the graduating exercises, gather about the flagpole, lower the flag, and sing “College Ties.” That is always a sacred hour. On that day some of you said goodbye to some of the best friends that you ever had, and you have not seen their faces since. Homecoming Day affords an opportunity to renew those college ties, to meet those friends again, and to exchange reminiscences and experiences. I believe that it was Balzac who said that a man never begins to live until he begins to reminisce. Homecoming also affords an opportunity to see the old college and to meet the members of the faculty again. In your student days you probably did not fully appreciate them. Since you have gone out into life and met other men you have probably discovered that some of your old professors have grown larger and larger in your thinking. Come and meet them again and tell them what you think of them.

No doubt there will be an outline of the informal program for Homecoming Day in another part of the Davidsonian. Of course, the biggest feature of the day will be the Davidson-Carolina game on Richardson Field at 2:30 o’clock. If the members of the Davidson team play as well as they did in the Davidson-Duke game there will be some high entertainment. We hope to see many Alumni and friends of the college on the campus on Homecoming Day.

WALTER L. LINGLE.

Professor K. J. Foreman Pays Visit To Davidson

Professor K. J. Foreman, of the Department of Bible, now on his second year of leave, studying at Yale University, paid his Davidson friends a surprise visit Sunday. He took advantage of a week spent in Norfolk, Va., to slip back to the old haunts. In Norfolk, he was one of a faculty of four which conducted a conference on religious education. The conference was attended by three hundred persons. Among the near neighbors of the Foremans in New Haven are Professor and Mrs. Goldiere, on leave from Davidson.

LEADERSHIP FRAT HONORS SIX AT ANNUAL SERVICE

Coit, Fort, Mackorell, Northern, Rogers, And Wingfield Are Men Selected

DR. C. K. BROWN SPEAKS

Increases Active Membership Of Circle To Thirteen

Six members of the Senior class were tapped for membership into Omicron Delta Kappa, national leadership fraternity, when the Delta Circle held its annual Fall Tap Day exercises this morning during chapel period in Chambers Auditorium. Those receiving the honor were: Robert T. Coit, Richmond, Va.; C. T. Fort, Barium Springs; John C. Mackorell, Hickory; William L. Northern, Sara; P. Mims Rogers, Florence, Ala.; and George Wingfield, Reidsville. These men were bid from their chapel seats by the group's peculiar method of selection. The active student and faculty members together with the inactive faculty members were seated on the rostrum of the auditorium during the exercises. Walter Sprunt, vice-president of the Delta Circle, opened with the devotional after which Gordon Brown, president of the Circle, introduced Dr. C. K. Brown, speaker for the occasion. Dr. Brown spoke concerning the fraternity, stating its purposes and ideals. After the talk, the newly elected men, not then known to any others than the members of the Circle, were tapped one at a time. A student member of the organization would walk down from the rostrum and would tap the man selected by the local Circle. The tapped one would show his intention of accepting by rising and following the member to the rostrum where he was welcomed by the president and the vice-president and given a ribbon of significance. The new men were tapped in alphabetical order. R. T. Coit has been actively connected with the Y. M. C. A. for the past two years, being vice-president of the organization last year, and a member of the cabinet this year. He is a member of the Student Council, a Cadet Captain in the R. O. T. C. battalion, a member of Phi Beta Kappa and several other honorary fraternities. Charles Fort is Captain of Scabbard and Blade, Cadet Captain in the battalion, on the varsity football squad, and was captain of the wrestling team last season and will again fill that position during the 1935 season. He is a member of Sigma Delta Psi and several other honorary organizations. Fort is also on the Dean’s list. John C. Mackorell, a member of the Pi Kappa Alpha social fraternity, is captain of the football team this year and a member of the “D” Club. He is playing his third year as a regular in the varsity football backfield, having made All-State quarterback last year and hon- (Continued on Page 8, Column 5)

Potter Named Possible Corps Choice For Trip

Major A. J. Potter, cadet-commander of Davidson’s R. O. T. C. unit, has been nominated the outstanding military student at Davidson, and his name has been submitted to the Commanding General of the Fourth Corps Area at Atlanta. Here Davidson's nominee will be considered in competition with one outstanding man from each R. O. T. C. unit in each of the following states for the honor of representing the Fourth Corps Area in Washington this winter: Alabama, Florida, Georgia, Louisiana, Mississippi, North Carolina, South Carolina, and Tennessee. The man chosen from the units in these states will be the guest of the R. O. T. C. Association on the trip annually sponsored by the association to Washington, where he, with the winners from the other eight corps areas, will spend three days sight-seeing in the nation’s capital. The nine students will be presented to the President as the outstanding youths of the land in R. O. T. C. work. This trip takes place during the first part of December, the name of those chosen for it usually being announced around the tenth of November, according to Major Rhett.