THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 11, 1934

The Davidsonian

FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

Member of Collegiate Press 1933-1934

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

Printed by the STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: Ten cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate year. Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1879. Articles for publication must be in the hands of the Editors by 4:00 o'clock p.m., Monday. Letters to the Editor are welcome, but all must be signed.

EDITORIAL STAFF
ODI CASALI..... Editor
W. T. JOHNSON. Business Manager
G. L. GULLETTE Managing Editor
E. F. McPHAIL Managing Editor
B. L. ROSE. Managing Editor
K. D. WEEKS. Managing Editor
LEE HELLINGER. Alumni Editor
BOWLING PRATT-THOMAS Editorial Writer
J. A. HUNTER Exchange Editor
J. B. BAILEY Feature Editor
S. K. EATON Feature Editor
C. S. McCALL Feature Editor
L. W. CLARDY Assistant Editor
A. F. SHAW Assistant Editor
W. M. THOMPSON Assistant Editor
JACK WILLIAMS, Night Assistant Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
L. GREEN Assistant Manager
W. L. SPRUNT Assistant Manager
J. R. BRAMMOND Assistant Manager
A. C. WADSWORTH Assistant Manager

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 11, 1934

A little work, a little sweating, a few brief, flying years; a little joy, a little fretting, some smiles and then some tears; a little resting in the shadow, a struggle to the height, a futile search for El Dorado, and then we say Good Night. Some moiling in the strife and clangor, some years of doubt and debt, some words we spoke in foolish anger that we would fain forget; some cheery words we said unthinking, that made a sad heart light; the banquet with its feast and drinking—and then we say Good Night. Some questioning of creeds and theories, and judgment of the dead, while God, Who never sleeps or wearies, is watching overhead; some little laughing and some sighing, some sorrow, some delight; a little music for the dying, and then we say Good Night.
—Walt Mason.

ON FOUNDERS’ DAY

Davidson College will celebrate its first Founders’ Day tomorrow, April 12, commemorating the ninety-seventh anniversary of the founding of the college. Davidson was formally opened on March 12, 1837. What progress has been made in these ninety-seven years and how successful have the ideals been upon which the institution was founded! The first Founders’ Day will not only be a celebration of the birthday of the college and an occasion for speech-making, but it will mark the realization of years of rapid progress and great satisfaction. So successfully have the ideals of Davidson been carried out that today its reputation from spiritual, educational, and athletic standpoints is unsurpassed. However, the efforts of those who have gone before will not be betrayed. The present leaders of Davidson College are carrying forward the traditions that have been entrusted to them, and the building and the general endowment fund program which has been recently announced is the latest step in that behalf. This expansion program will be formally inaugurated by Founders’ Day celebrations at various alumni meetings over the country. Three years from now, in the spring of 1937, when Davidson celebrates its Centennial, it is hoped that the goal for this program will be reached. With this fact in view, Davidson looks to its Centennial with keen interest, and justly so, because if this goal is attained it will furnish Davidson College with material equipment on a par with its educational and spiritual rating which will undoubtedly make it one of the greatest schools in the country.
—K. D. W.

POSTLUDE

And so with this issue of the Davidsonian “the old order changeth, yielding place to the staff of next year.” We are somewhat chagrined to discover that it is quite difficult to find a suitable subject for discussion. There should be a stream of thoughts and ideas from which to choose a topic, but those that we formulate are cut and dried, trite, and of ancient design. Thus we discover, as is the case with the majority of farewells, that the deep worthwhile expressions never arise at the moment of parting, but are born many moments later when the occasion for their use has passed. Even if they should enter our minds at the proper time, they are very rarely uttered. Sir Walter Raleigh said, “The shallow murmur, but the deep are dumb.” We hope that our impotence and incapacity to write a fitting recessional will be pardoned on this score.

We might devote several pages to a prolonged and highly retrospective dissertation or we might be prospective in our outlook, but this has all been done before. Events have transpired during the last year that differentiate it from any other college year, but in the last analysis the session of 1933-34 might be conveniently placed five years in the past or five years in the future. It has been an average college year, and so it will appear to all except the six hundred who have exerted their influence and added their presence during its passing, so that it remains not 1933-34, but becomes to them one of the “four priceless years” of college life.

Our work on the Davidsonian this year has been pleasant, yes, and has also provided us with some invaluable experience, but we are not sorry to depart. This statement applies not only to our newspaper activities, but to our entire college life. We have marked time for four years now and we believe that the Senior Class is happy to vacate. Those of us who have achieved success, as measured by the undergraduate world, are undoubtedly eager to pit our talent and ability against much keener competition. We want to see if we have been worthy of the awards we have received. We have spent ample time in training camp, now we advance to the firing line. Those who feel that their college careers have been only average or mediocre wish to prove their mettle. Perhaps they have not been rightly judged and wish to redeem or even avenge themselves. They have an opportunity to turn over the much-talked-about new leaf. People will little note nor long remember what we did at Davidson, but will judge us by our accomplishments in the days that are to come.

And so we gladly make way for the new regime. May their efforts be crowned with success. We gracefully make our exit, bidding you “Hail and Farewell”!
—R.P.-T.

THE ALUMNI JOURNAL

Friday marked the appearance of the first issue of the “Davidson College Alumni Journal,” edited by Grier Martin, alumni secretary. The initial copy consisted of twenty-four pages and was illustrated by cuts of the campus, alumni, and students. It was mailed to more than 4,500 Davidson alumni and members of the Senior Class. This is regarded as a trial edition, and the future of the “Journal” is dependent upon the decision of the trustees in their Commencement meeting. It is to be hoped that they will vote to continue publication. A large number of congratulatory letters have already been received from alumni and friends of the college in praise for the new venture. Herbert F. Taylor, president of the American Alumni Council, said, “The Davidson College Alumni Journal is one of the most attractive debutantes I have ever seen.” The editor is indeed to be congratulated on his work. We feel that this publication deserves the co-operation of the student body as a whole. Not only is such a magazine of inestimable value in advertising the college and in keeping former students in touch with their Alma Mater, but it will increase in value with the years and number of alumni. There is not one of us to whom the life of the “Journal” is not a matter of vital concern. It fills a need which has long been felt on the Hill, and all loyal sons of Davidson will hope for its support and continuance.

Here and There

Exactly 640 acres of Michigan State College land is being drained by a CWA project employing 65 men.

Thirty-five graduates of Marshall College, Huntington, W. Va., are heads of high schools in that state.

Dr. Walter Scott Ahearn has been discharged from his position as president by the board of trustees of Butler University.

A rifle club has been formed at Hobart College by 17 undergraduates interested in marksmanship.

A fund of $3,000 has been presented to the College of the City of New York for the relief of needy students.

A practice court is held regularly by the students of the West Virginia University College of Law to train students in court procedure.

Religious preferences of University of Michigan students are divided among 35 creeds and denominations, a recent survey conducted by the Michigan Student Christian Association reveals.

A request of the University of Kentucky zoology department asks that all who have snakes send them to the Lexington institution.

A social relations club is being organized by the students of North Central College for the development of a “useable world consciousness.”

NEWS DIGEST TODAY

Our government moving along with the rest of the world toward a socialistic state... A new uprising of red forces all over the continent and this uprising accompanied by murder and bloodshed... The growth of an independent attitude on the part of governments... A new billion dollar bond issue for the United States to replace the fourth liberty loan issue which is maturing... The era of the NRA, TVA, CCC, brain trust and other devices to fight the depression... The forgotten man... A revival of that time-honored pastime, a naval armament race between the nations... Another Jesse James, John Dillinger, whose exploits are as eagerly followed as the latest thriller in the movies... An Elysian field where the T flows thanks to the depression... Revolution in France and Austria and Cuba... The independence of the Philippines... Death as army fliers carry the mail once again... Increased taxes as the government goes on a gigantic spending policy... Crime stillPredominating the news... Man soaring ten miles above the earth in metal spheres... A new anaesthetic and a new antiseptic as scientists fight the spread of disease... Hitler and Mussolini march on... Government control in this country with the railroad executives quaking in their boots... Control of the St. Lawrence... Nudists... The Stavisky case and the overthrow of the French cabinet as a result. Japan still assuming a belligerent attitude and Russia doesn’t seem to mind it... Sam Insull cornered in Egypt after a spectacular voyage and on his way back to the scene of the crime... The flop of conferences, especially the Geneva disarmament... Reduction in the value of the dollar... The invention of the modern Frankenstein, a thinking robot... Death in the afternoon, in the morning, and at night as ships go down, planes crash, trains are wrecked, cars collide and then the usual run of floods, earthquakes, and famines... And life goes on.

TOMORROW

Facing a new era and a new world the future is full of doubt and just a little cloudy. We have reached the turning point in the history of the world, today we are as we have always been, tomorrow we may awake with a new outlook, a new earth. The most important tendency, the predominating drive of our day is socialism. It originated only a few years ago, now look at Germany, Italy, Spain, Russia and the others all experimenting with new forms of government built upon the ruins of the old. The United States is moving in this direction. I will not say that it will become socialistic, but a change in one direction or another is coming. We are on the verge of a war that will make the last one look like a mud fight. The present tendency no matter how peaceful you are is arm. The French are selling gas masks in the streets to every citizen. We are motivated by fear of each other. We are suspicious, distrustful and flighty. It is coming—the great war, the World War. The government is spending a lot of money to rid us of the depression—ten billion dollars of it and this money is going on the national debt. It will be up to our generation to make up this money. Taxes even today have increased to a great extent and they will increase more. The future looks dark. If we pay ten billion dollars in taxes, we will be back in another depression just where we started from. The solution for this problem remains in the future and in the hands of the youth of today. Taxes. We are entering the greatest scientific and inventive day in history. The airplane, the train, the motor car and the radio will all be wonderfully improved. Television will be here soon and also cheap electric heat. We will soon have a mechanical man to do our work for us. Medical science will be much improved. The house of the future will be a model of light, ventilation and heat. The food will be better. We have not yet reached an end of the road even though it is dark and new ahead.

Dr. George F. Zook, United States commissioner of education, will speak at the Pennsylvania State College scholarship day, May 12. An experimental class following the Oxford system of instruction is being taught by Prof. R. M. Kain at Augustana College in Sioux Falls, S. D. Dale Kindness is the name of the champion boxer of Augustana College.

Pi Delta Alpha Held Open Meeting Friday

Pi Delta Alpha held its third open meeting of the year on the night of Friday, March 6. About sixty men availed themselves of this opportunity to hear Dr. Rigdon Dees, distinguished Greensboro surgeon, lecture on various interesting diseases and operations. Dr. Dees was assisted by his laboratory technician, Mr. George Windham, who illustrated the lecture with charts and pictures related to the subject—shown through an opaque projector. The pre-medical fraternity plans to initiate the six men pledged within the next week.

Sigma Pi Sigma Holds Election of Officers

Sigma Pi Sigma, national honorary physics fraternity, held an election of officers Monday night, the results of which are as follows: W. M. Bogart, elected president; J. M. Douglas, vice-president; A. L. Kuhn, secretary-treasurer. B. L. Moore discussed “Television; or Application of the Cathode Ray Tube to Television.” At the previous meeting several topics of interest were discussed by members. Al Kuhn read a paper on the Diesel engine. Jake Morrow spoke on the subject of air and airfoil. The suggestion was made to consider having an open meeting next time. Prof. H. E. Fulcher, of the physics department, gave an interesting discussion of Einstein's theory of relativity and also spoke on “absolute zero.”

LITTLE WILL INSPECT LOCAL R. O. T. C. UNIT

(Continued from page 1)

Jackson. The student members are year advanced course. At 2:10 Friday afternoon, Colonel Little will inspect the battalion on the field in the following order: Physical drill, tactical inspection, and maneuver. The battalion has recently been issued new uniforms and a good showing is expected of the individuals as well as the battalion as a whole. Major John T. Rhett, in charge of the Davidson R. O. T. C., has issued a general invitation to the public to be present at the exercises and inspection to be held on the freshman field at 2:15 o'clock Friday afternoon, April 27th.

NEW MEN CHOSEN TO FILL VACANT OFFICES

(Continued from page 1)

and is now teaching at Morgan School, Petersburg, Tenn. While at Davidson he was an outstanding student and leader, having been a member of the Student Council and the Y. M. C. A. Cabinet. He is a native of Franklin, Tennessee. Professor Kimbrough plans to attend Columbia University next year to take up the study of higher mathematics. Professor Goldiere will go to Yale University during his leave of absence. Dr. Kenneth J. Foreman will return to Davidson next year and resume his duties in the Bible department, after having spent the past year in the Yale Divinity School.

LINGLE OUTLINES BUILDING PROGRAM

(Continued from page 1)

3. For upkeep of buildings 4. General endowment 200,000 5,000,000 Total for endowment $5,600,000 Total for buildings and endowment

Dr. Lingle closes his article in the Journal with this plea to the alumni: “When we come to think of it, there are single individuals who have given to single institutions more than this whole program calls for. We cannot hope to make a widespread, general campaign. Yet every friend of the college may have a part in the Centennial program. Each one can give according to his ability.”

On Other Campuses

The chant of the Phi Beta Kappas, according to Georgia’s “Red and Black”:

Great and small Admire you But none at all Will hire you.

Ain’t it the truth!

The University of Louisville Cardinal says that the agricultural department at Wisconsin University is conducting an experiment to see whether intoxicated hens will lay more prolifically than sober ones.

At a recent meeting of the “T” Club at Tulane University, it was recommended that intercollegiate baseball be re-adopted at Tulane on as large a scale as possible, and that awards be given a picked group of players in the event that baseball remains an intramural activity. This recommendation was made in an effort to further university athletics.

With 903 students registered, Wake Forest has the largest enrollment this year ever recorded in its 100 years of service. The student body is 11 percent larger than last year. Of this group, 828 students come from N.C., and 75 representatives from out of the state. These last representatives represent 20 states and China.

At Washington College the co-eds, after a stiff fight, were granted permission to smoke in classes. Next day, several came to one class smoking corn-cob pipes. The professor maintained his composure, and ordered that all windows be kept closed. In a short time the dear gals began to excuse themselves rather informally. The infirmary immediately became co-ed-conscious.

Roll your pants up! A frosh at Penn State gave as his excuse for being behind in his outside reading that it had been too cold to sit on the porch to read! Members of a certain Advanced United States History (6) Class please note!

In a vote held to determine the individual in the world today most important from a news point of view, students of journalism at N. Y. U. unanimously named as their first choice Franklin D. Roosevelt. Second place went to Hitler, with 99 votes, and Lindbergh was third with 91 votes. Greta Garbo polled 34 votes!

The week’s most suggestive headline: “Open House, Will Present Co-ed Exhibit”!

At the University of Southern California, when a man catches a man cheating on a writ or exam, he starts stomping his feet. The whole class begins the stomping until the cheater stops his foul tactics. New dance step? The “Cheater’s Stomp”?

Is this for an All-American Orchestra? Suggested by the Sewanee Purple:

Trumpets Hal Kemp's Trombones Glen Gray’s Drums Fred Waring's Strings Rubinoff’s Saxophones Wayne King’s Violins Guy Lombardo’s Piano Jan Garber

And may we add as vocalists, Carmen Lombardo and Eddie Stone?

A small reproduction of the bust of General Lejeune, their very popular superintendent, is to be incorporated as a new feature in the design of this year’s third class rings at V. M. I.

H. C. (Curley) Byrd, vice-president and athletic director at Maryland, plans to bring before the Southern Conference meeting next December a proposal for complete withdrawal of varsity teams from S. C. tournaments and substitution of intramural teams instead. (The Virginia Tech.)

Attention! Students... Order Your Personal Engraved Now. Twenty Styles to Pick From And A SPECIAL PRICE FOR DAVIDSON STUDENTS Bill Johnson—203 Watts Standard Printing Company @ Garland Court - CHARLOTTE, N. C.