THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 10, 1934

"CATS CONTINUE SEASON TONIGHT | Around the Wildcat’s Lair

COLUMBIA 7 STANFORD 0

CASKIE NOWELL

What a beating the ole boy took on the Rose Bowl game... predicted a walkover for Stanford's Indians... ridiculed the
idea of Columbia in the Bowl... but do we apologize... and are we proud of the boys from Morningside Heights...
they put the East back in the limelight... swell going. Cliff Montgomery and Al Barabas in particular made life miserable
for the Westerners on the afternoon of New Year's Day. They took those heavy coast boys and showed them what
a smart Eastern eleven could do. We still think Duke would have given Stanford fits, though.

The Davidson basketball team has had indifferent success to date, but appears much improved over last year's quint. Captain Harris,
a sharpshooter of no mean ability, hasn’t hit his stride yet, but should be in the thick of it for
the pre-examination campaign that the Wildcats are entering. Hugh Yelverton’s splendid play at guard has called forth many favorable comments.
John Lafferty has shown much improvement, and is running up a nice scoring total. But the season’s surprise is “Big
Jim” Morgan, rangy grid star, who has shown such splendid work at center that the scribes are calling him the
backbone of Davidson's defense.

The varsity dropped a game to the “White Phantoms” of the University of North Carolina this past Saturday evening in
the Central High gym in Charlotte by a 38-23 score. This is a great improvement over last year, when the
Tar Heels bumped the locals 58-16. Courtney Ross, at center, bagged eight points to lead the Wildcat scorers. Aitken was
outstanding for Carolina.

The freshman quintet looked good in a couple of early season games, both of which they won by decisive margins.
Peabody, Quick, and Gracey look especially good, and a host of good material is being steadily developed under the capable
training of Coach Bruce Peabody, former Davidson star.

The varsity grapplers hit the road this week with a rather stupendous task ahead of them, that being the encountering
of Washington and Lee and V. M. I. on successive nights. These two Virginia schools have long been prominent in
the wrestling world and will put out excellent teams this year. However, Davidson has a very powerful organization, and it’s
a toss-up, so pick anybody you want to. A split is the best bet from where we see it.

Monday the Wildcat basketeers took on Duke, and, as this column went to press, the results of the game were
unknown. The Blue Devils have a splendid five, and if young Connie Mack, son of the A’s great pilot, comes
through, they will be well up in the conference standings. As a prognosticator, it becomes my unpleasant duty to predict
a close game, that should go to the speedy Dukes.

Looking around among the neighboring schools, both Carolina and Duke appear to have outstanding teams, and as far as this
state is concerned, are in something of a class by themselves. Duke trampled Wake Forest’s Deacons rather severely in the
opening “Big Five” encounter. Clemson has been licked by Duke, North Carolina, and N. C. State. South Carolina opened with
a bang, sinking Presbyterian College, 84-9. This comes pretty close to being something of a record, and serves as a
warning that the Gamecocks are out for that conference title again.

N. C. State is to be congratulated upon securing Heartley “Hunk” Anderson as coach. The former Notre Dame mentor, a
pupil of the late Knute Rockne, knows plenty of football, and knows how to teach it. His Ramblers showed what
they had in that last great game, when they blasted Army’s perfect season by submerging the Cadets, 13-12, in a
thriller. Anderson has good potentialities in his material at State, and the Red Terrors are a team to be watched
next season.

COLUMBIA LIONS UPSET STANFORD WITH 7-0 SCORE

New Yorkers Triumph Over Unsuspecting Indians in Rose Bowl Classic

MUD SLOWS PLAY

Carries Ball Over in Second Quarter Barabas

Surging through a drizzling, disheartening rain, the roaring Lions of Columbia University were sea lions January 1 when they splashed
their way to a clear-cut and surprising victory over the Stanford football team, 7-0, in the annual Tournament of Roses
classic at Pasadena, Calif.

The game brought to a close a season replete with reverses, with this probably the greatest upset of them all.
The Lions battled their way to a one-touchdown lead in the second quarter, and then four times thrust back the
furious onslaught of the powerful Stanford backs in a last-half struggle. The Californians gleaned 16 first downs to six for
the New Yorkers, and gained 272 yards to 114 for the Lions. Stanford had six scoring chances; Columbia had three.
Then the visitors held their lead in the face of the same powerful attack that only two months before had
tripped the mighty Trojans of Southern California. Fumbles and penalties contributed to stopping the Indian drives, but the Lions were
always on hand to take advantage of every break. They played smart football.

The Columbia score came after Montgomery had thrown a pass from the 41-yard line to Tony Matal, Lion Gids. The
ball then rested on the 17-yard stripe. On the next play, Barabas fumbled, but recovered for a half-yard loss. Montgomery
then took the ball from center, wheeled in a deceptive reverse and handed it to Barabas, who loped across the
goal line.

Davidson Cagers Meet Lenoir-Rhyne Tonight

Wildcat Quint Will Battle State Friday Night

Tonight the Davidson College basketball team will play the strong Lenoir-Rhyne team. As this goes to press the place of
the hardwood battle is yet undecided. The strength of the Lenoir-Rhyne team is unknown because they have not played any
teams that Davidson has battled. This game was originally scheduled for the local court.

Friday night the Wolfpack from N. C. State will invade the lair of the Davidson Wildcat. State tamed the Tigers
from Clemson in a nip and tuck battle at Raleigh to come into a tie with North Carolina and Duke
for leadership in the Southern Conference. The Wildcats, up against practically the same team which overwhelmed them last year, will
be out for a try at revenge when they meet State on the twelfth. Although they have not shown much
against superior strength so far this year, Davidson's cagers hope for better days with the improved team which they will
put on the court in these contests.

Intramural Boxing Training Commences

Intramural boxing classes, under the direction of Captain Norton Pritchett, were begun last Monday afternoon and will be conducted each
weekday at 5 o'clock, except Saturdays. In order to avoid congestion on the main floor of the gymnasium, the classes
will be held upstairs. At the end of several weeks’ training—probably in the latter part of February—a tournament will take
place in which boxers of the different weights will compete with others in their own class.

NEED A TRIM FOR THE WEEK-END? JOHNSON’S BARBER SHOP

Davidson Loses First Tilt to Carolina, 38-23

Wildcat Cagers Are No Match for Skillful White Phantoms

North Carolina’s mighty “White Phantoms” breezed into Charlotte last Saturday night, and turned back a fighting Wildcat five from Davidson
College in the Central High gymnasium by a 38-23 score. Aitken, Carolina forward, led the scoring with 10 points. At
no time were the Tar Heels headed, running up a 17-3 lead early in the game, and leading 21-10 at
the intermission. The ’Cats put up a dogged scrap, but were no match for the speedy Carolinians. Ross led the
Davidson scorers with 8 points, and Harris was next with 6.

Line-up:
Carolina (38) Posi. Davidson (23)
Aitken (10) R.F. Harris (6)
Weathers (7) L.F. Lafferty (3)
Glace (8) Center Ross (8)
D. M’C’chren (1) R.G. J. M’Cchren (7)
L.G. Yelverton (2)

Substitutes—Carolina: Nelson (2), Long (2), Beale, Brandt, Blood; Davidson: Morgan (2), Holland (2). Referee, Touhy (Colorado); umpire, Parrish (High Point).

’Cat Wrestlers Begin Season with W&L, VMI

Davidson Hindered in First Tilt by Loss of Sprunt, Potter

The Davidson grapplers open their 1934 season by encountering two particularly formidable foes, when they take on Washington and Lee
and V. M. I. on successive nights this weekend. Both matches will be held in Lexington, Va. Davidson will put
a good mat organization on the floor both nights, as the Wildcats boast a galaxy of lettermen from the very
successful 1933 team, which was undefeated in North Carolina, though they dropped decisions to Franklin and Marshall and W. and
L.

On Friday night Captain Charlie Fort will lead his wrestlers against the Generals of Washington and Lee, a school famous
for its fine wrestling teams. Last season the Minks trimmed the Wildcats, 22-8, on the local mat, and the Davidson
lads are out to avenge that defeat. The meet should be close, although two of Davidson's most potential wrestlers will
be out due to injuries. Both Potter and Sprunt will not be able to wrestle. Sprunt will probably be out
the rest of the season, but Potter is expectedto be all right for the next meet. On the following night,
the Cadets of Virginia Military Institute will be met. This is another hard match for the 'Cats. Davidson and V.
M. I. did not meet in wrestling last season, but the Cadets have quite a reputation in the world of
grapplers, and a close match is to be expected. Coach Unger has been putting his Davidson proteges through a series
of stiff workouts ever since November, and he held trials for the team last Monday. He has worked hard with
the boys and in spite of injuries, another successful season can be looked forward to.

1934 Grid Schedule
September 22—Elon, here.
September 29—N. C. State, at Greensboro.
October 6—Army, West Point.
October 13—Open.
October 20—Duke, Durham.
October 27—The Citadel, here.
November 3—William & Mary, here.
November 10—North Carolina, here.
November 17—V. M. I., here.
November 29—Wake Forest, here.

Freshmen Beat Belk’s Of Charlotte by 37-17
Porter Leads ’Kittens to Win First Game of Season

Davidson's freshmen opened their season by licking Belk’s of Charlotte, 37-17, in the local gym. Porter led the local scorers,
followed by Maurice Peabody. At no time was the outcome of the game in doubt as the ’Kittens were masters
of the situation throughout. The floor work of Quick was particularly outstanding. Coach Bruce Peabody used three entire freshman teams
during the game.

Line-up:
Belk’s (17) Posi. Davidson (37)
Moore (5) RF. Porter (12)
Elliott (4) LF. Peabody (8)
Klutz Center Cathey (7)
Ellis (2) RG. Quick (6)
Clontz (6) LG. Gracey

Substitutes—Belk’s: Jamison, Godfrey; Davidson: Branton, Peters (2), Woodward (2), Mauze, Patterson, Knorr, LeGrand, Barnes, Robinson.

Basketeers Win Three Games in Early Season
’Cats Defeat Kannapolis, Statesville, and Gastonia; Drop Two Games

In a series of early season games, played with independent teams, the Davidson College basketball team won three and lost
two. The wins were over Kannapolis Y. M. C. A., Statesville Red Shields, and the Gastonia American Legion. Games were
dropped to the Statesville Red Shields and the Dallas All-Stars.

The first of these games against the Kannapolis “Y” was won by the local quint, 43-30, and an account of
it has already appeared in this paper. The ’Cats lost the second game, a hotly contested overtime encounter against the
Statesville Red Shields, on the latter’s floor. The Red Shields boasted four former Davidson stars in their line-up, West, Wagner,
Calhoun, and Mills, and won 38-33. In a return game, the Wildcats retaliated and licked the independents 39-33 on the
Davidson court.

In between the two contests with Statesville, the Wildcats met and defeated in Gastonia a team from the Gastonia American
Legion Post. The score was 35-22, with Captain Charlie Harris leading the Wildcat attack with 12 points. The Dallas All-Stars
licked Davidson in the only independent game played since the holidays.

Davidson Theatre
WEDNESDAY
“SON OF A SAILOR”
JOE E. BROWN—THELMA TODD
JOHN MACK BROWN

THURSDAY AND FRIDAY
“MR. SKITCH”
WILL ROGERS—ZAZU PITTS

SATURDAY
“CONVENTION CITY”
ADOLPHE MENJOU—DICK POWELL—MARY ASTOR
JOAN BLONDELL—GUY KIBBEE

MONDAY
“WOMEN IN HIS LIFE”

TUESDAY
“ALICE IN WONDERLAND”
CHARLOTTE HENRY—LOUISE FAZENDA—SKEETS GALLAGHER—RICHARD ARLEN—W. C. FIELDS
ALISON SKIPWORTH—CHARLES RUGGLES
CARY GRANT—JACK OAKIE
GARY COOPER

Release Statistics On Football Season
Johnny Mackorell, Ace Back, Leads Mates in Scoring Attack

When the count had been completed on the averages for the season for the Wildcat football team and its opponents
as a unit, it seemed that by actual statistics Davidson had to yield precedence to its foes in almost every
department of the game during the 1933 football year. This, in almost direct disagreement with the fact that Davidson won
six of her games, while losing only two, shows a point in favor of the traditional fighting Wildcat spirit, which
refused to permit its perhaps heavier and more powerful opponents to advance when they reached that place inside the 20-yard
line.

The statistics show, however, that Davidson led her opponents in the defensive field in all departments, which again speaks of
the effort put out by Davidson players and their good spirit. As for the competition among the backfield of the
Davidson team, if it might be called competition, the statistics show that Wildcat Johnny Mackorell led the scoring attack, followed
closely by his two running mates, Wingfield and Hutchins. Together these three accounted for over 900 of the 1,325 yards
made by the Davidson team during the season. In fact, the honors of the season were almost entirely taken by
these three backfield flashes! Mackorell, with an average for the season of four yards a try, led the running attack,
followed closely by Hutchins with 3.3 yards a try. Paul Pittman, brilliant sophomore back, who played only in four contests,
had the best average of all, 4.6 yards, but could hardly be reckoned along with the others due to his
lack of playing time.

Besides his good average in the field of running, Mackorell, Davidson's candidate for probable “All” honors in 1934, also led
prominently in the several other fields in which he participated. He had an average for the season of 35 yards
a try on his punts. His passing and his field generalship were a joy to behold. It is notable to
see how clean a game of football the Davidson team played. In comparison to the total number of yards received
in penalties by her opponents, 303, Davidson incurred a total of more than 100 yards fewer penalties.

The statistics as a whole are as follows:
Dav. Oppon.
First downs 76 102
Yards gained from scrimmage 1,325 1,571
Yards lost at scrimmage 221 197
Yards gained from passes 469 491
Passes had intercepted 9 14
Net yardage gained 1,573 1,865
Yards punts returned 436 289
Yards kickoffs returned 364 568
Yards penalized 190 303
Points scored 109 70
Games won (1 tied) 6 2
Times held scoreless 1 2
Yards on punts 3,168 3,260
Number of punts (not blocked) 92 84
Punts had blocked 2 6

(Continued on page 6)

FIGHTING CATS DEFEATED 40-35 BY DUKE CAGERS
’Cats Stage Rally in Second Half But Fail to Overcome Blue Devils
TRAIL 22-18 AT HALF
Thompson of Duke Leads Scoring with 13 Points

Catching an unexpected tartar, the highly touted Duke University quint was hard-pressed to nose out a fighting Davidson five, 40-35,
in the Charlotte High gym last Monday night. The Blue Devils were off to an early lead, and at one
time were on top, 10-3. However, the Wildcats came back strongly, and at intermission the Dukes held a bare 22-18
edge. Coming back in the second half, the Davidson boys shot from all angles, and were leading 28-24, when their
main defensive cog, “Big Jim” Morgan, was removed from the game on personals. With young Connie Mack getting the tip,
from here on the Dukes came through to win.

Line-up:
Duke (40) Posi. Davidson (35)
H. Thompson (11) LF. Harris (9)
J. Thompson (13) RF. Lafferty (11)
Bell (2) Center Ross (10)
Mack (2) RG. Yelverton (3)
Weaver (5) LG. Holland (1)

Substitutes—Duke: Kunkle (7); Davidson: Morgan (2). Referee, Hackney (North Carolina); umpire, Touhy (Colorado).

Davidson To Engage Nine Grid Opponents

Captain Norton G. Pritchett, director of athletics at Davidson College, made public the 1934 football schedule for the Wildcat eleven.
The team is little different from last year’s except that Army replaces Wofford. The Wildcats will again play but nine
games, taking an open date between the Army and Duke games. The season opens with Elon, who always puts a
scrappy little team on the field, whose unorthodox style of football sometimes upsets the big boys. The game will be
played at Davidson. Last season the Wildcats won over Elon, 6-0.

On September 29, N. C. State will be met in a night game at the Memorial Stadium in Greensboro. The
last time these teams met here was in 1931, when State won, 18-7. The teams played a 6-6 tie in
Raleigh last season. After this comes the big Army game at West Point. On the occasion of the last meeting
of these two teams, the Cadets licked the ’Cats 23-7, but had a hard time doing it. An open date
follows this game. The 'Cats then journey to Durham to meet the powerful Duke eleven, who licked them 19-7 during
the 1933 season. After the Duke game, the Wildcats return to Richardson Field for the remaining five games on the
schedule, which are with The Citadel, William and Mary, North Carolina, V. M. I., and Wake Forest. During the season
just passed, Davidson licked The Citadel, 24-6; William and Mary, 12-7; V. M. I., 6-0, and Wake Forest, 20-13, while
losing to Carolina, 6-0. Indications are that Davidson should do well with this schedule next year.

Shirts and Shorts
MADE TO FIXED STANDARD

There is nothing mis-HANES about the cutting of HANES Shirts, and knitted Union Suits (both light and heavy) always tally
with the tape-measure. A size forty-two is a forty-two. No skimping of a half-inch here and there. No Underwear could
grow as HANES has grown, unless it offered comfort, quality, and style! You'll be happy in HANES!

P.H. Hanes Knitting Company
Winston-Salem, N. C.

The Famous Samsonbak Union Suit
