THE DAVIDSONIAN; APRIL 18, 1934

Beaty Makes Talks To New Y Cabinet
President and Cabinet of Y. M. C. A. Installed at Vesper Service

MORROW MAKES TALK
New Officers to Take Over Their Duties at Once

The Davidson Y. M. C. A. held its installation service at the Sunday vespers, April 15. The newly-elected president, W. P. Sprunt, and the cabinet of the Y. M. C. A., were installed, immediately taking over the duties of their new offices.

R. C. Morrow gave an address entitled “From the Old ‘Y’ Cabinet.” He first expressed thanks to Sam Wiley and W. M. Thompson for their work and fulfillment of the duties of their respective offices. He pointed out the importance of the position the cabinet had entrusted to them. “The greatest sin of Davidson students is the sin of indifference,” he stated. “The realization that Christ is a loving power who is able to guide us is necessary to combat indifference.”

Professor Ernest Beaty gave a talk next on “Charge to the New Cabinet.” He expressed the importance that Christian colleges play in carrying out Christian work today. “All forces which motivate Davidson students are towards Christianity, and the Y. M. C. A. is one of the strongest forces,” he said. He challenged the cabinet, as its definite objective, to make every Davidson man a true follower of Christianity. “Man must live a wholesome and sane life in accordance with Christ, and he must study out problems, to act rightly, to have the spirit of Christianity.”

Sprunt gave the final talk of the installation service. He accepted the challenges given by Morrow and Professor Beaty, and stated that his aim was to fulfill the duties left to him. “My hope is that opportunities for service may be carried out; and through the medium of this service, the students will be benefitted,” he said.

Dr. J. R. Cunningham Speaks On Ministry
Speaker Discusses Requirements of a Good Minister

The Davidson Y. M. C. A. continued its vocational guidance work with a talk by John R. Cunningham, D.D., to the candidates for the ministry on Tuesday, April 10. At that time he presented a resume of the field of ministry and the training necessary for the minister of today.

Before an audience of about twenty-five or thirty men assembled in Professor Bailey’s classroom, Dr. Cunningham, president of the Louisville Presbyterian Seminary at Louisville, Ky., spoke for an hour and a quarter on the ministry as a profession. The whole field of ministry was discussed, particularly the specific qualifications of the minister, the courses he should study in college and seminary, and the natural requisites of a minister. Dr. Cunningham's most surprising view, to his listeners, was his emphasis on the need of a ministerial student for as many courses in psychology as possible. Throughout the lecture, questions from the students were answered.

Either teaching or engineering will be the next profession to be discussed through the “Y.” A speaker on one of the vocations will be secured for some evening next week. Tuesday’s address marked the fourth profession which the “Y” has had discussed during its vocational guidance program; two or three more lectures of the sort will be conducted this year. At the end of this program, there will be published in “The Davidsonian” a bibliography on vocations in general and specific professions.

Davidson Represented In Presbytery Meeting
Dr. Thomas W. Lingle, of the history department of Davidson College, went, on April 10 and 11, to a meeting of the Presbytery of Concord, held in Lenoir, N. C. Dr. Lingle is the Chairman of Christian Education. This committee keeps in contact with men in this Presbytery who are planning to take up ministry. Dr. H. B. Arbuckle, of the chemistry department here, represented the Davidson church at this meeting. Dr. H. M. Moffett, pastor of the Davidson Presbyterian Church, also attended the meeting.

Social Frats Have Interesting Week
Several Fraternities Are Entertained by Faculty

BETA THETA PI
Bob Richardson has been chosen for next Pan-Hellenic representative year. Bill Zachary of Cooleemee will be initiated into the chapter tonight.

PI KAPPA ALPHA
Charlie Harris was elected Pan-Hellenic representative at the regular meeting last Thursday night.

PI KAPPA PHI
Dr. and Mrs. G. R. Vowles entertained the senior members of the chapter at a buffet supper on last Monday evening. Eleven members attended the supper.

PHI DELTA THETA
Arthur R. Priest, the executive secretary of Phi Delta Theta, visited the local chapter on last Thursday evening. Priest, who is from Oxford, Ohio, is visiting all the chapters of the fraternity in this section of the country. He went from here to the Duke chapter. A feed was given in his honor Thursday night. Priest was accompanied by his wife. The fraternity is expecting to move back into its house, which has recently been redecorated, tomorrow.

SIGMA PHI EPSILON
Members of S. P. E. were entertained by Dr. and Mrs. P. H. Gwynn last Sunday night at an informal feed. Several faculty members were present, including Professors and Mesdames Fulcher, Kimbrough, and Erwin. Marshall Dilling, freshman, of Gastonia, was initiated into the N. C. Epsilon Chapter last Friday night.

Presbytery Hears Dr. W. L. Lingle At Meet
Davidson Head to Speak at Rutherfordton Sunday

Last Sunday Dr. W. L. Lingle went to Durham to address a joint meeting of the Granville Presbytery and Presbyterial. The subject of his address was “The Christian College and the Christian Ministry.” Next Sunday Dr. Lingle has an engagement to preach the high school commencement sermon at Rutherfordton. From Rutherfordton he plans to go to Charlotte and conduct the vesper services at Queens-Chicora College that evening. On Monday, April 23, Dr. Lingle will make the commencement address at the Barium Springs graduation exercises, and on Tuesday and Wednesday, April 24 and 25, he will attend the meeting of the Concord Presbyterial at Mooresville.

Davidson Netmen Will Enter the State Meet
The Davidson tennis team left this morning to meet the University of North Carolina in a match at Chapel Hill this afternoon. This is the eleventh engagement of the season for the Wildcat players. They will remain in Chapel Hill throughout the remainder of the week in order to take part in the state tournament. A thus far unblemished record will be at stake during these matches.

CARS FOR RENT
Gulf Gas and Oil
M. P. HENDERSON

Union Theological Seminary
RICHMOND, VIRGINIA
Distinguished for 121 years in the whole field of Theological Education, particularly in the making of Preachers.

Musical Programs Are Offered Here
Hobart Williams Presents Organ Recital Wednesday

Three musical programs have been presented this past week at Davidson. Hobart Whitman of Statesville presented a short organ recital at chapel Wednesday morning, April 11. His program consisted of four selections: “We Thank Thee, God,” by Bach; “Sunrise” and “Vineyard Scene,” by Jacob, and “Westminster Chimes,” by Vierne. Thursday afternoon at 1:30 the DavidsonCollege Band entertained with a recital in the auditorium. Several numbers were played for an audience containing several notables. Among those present was Dr. Earle V. Moore, director of the School of Music at the University of Michigan, and president of the Music Teachers National Association. Professor Palmer Christian, professor of organ at the University of Michigan, and his wife were also among the listeners to the college band. Dr. Moore and Professor Christian were both instructors of James C. Pfohl, who conducted the band.

The Carolina Salon Ensemble gave a concert in the Chambers Auditorium Saturday evening before a large audience. Thor Johnson conducted the program, while Raymond Brietz was the baritone soloist. Numbers played were those of famous composers, such as Mendelssohn, Wagner, Rachmaninoff, Beethoven, Tchaikovsky, and Schumann.

Freshmen Are Allowed To Remove Their Caps

Jimmie Halverstadt, judge of the Court Control, announced last Wednesday that the freshmen would be allowed to remove their caps on Friday, April 13. Freshmen heretofore have been allowed to take off their caps before the Easter holidays, but this year on account of the mischievous conduct of the freshman class, the Court of Control decided that as a punishment they should extend the time to May 1. Due to a pronounced improvement in the conduct of the freshmen since the beginning of the new term, the Court agreed to permit the freshmen to remove their caps at this earlier date.

New Y.M.C.A. Cabinet

W. P. Sprunt, newly installed president of the Y.M.C.A., announced the Y Cabinet members for the coming year at Sunday vespers. He appointed the new cabinet in consultation with the old Y Cabinet members and Samuel Wiley, secretary of the Y.M.C.A. The following men are to have charge of the various cabinet activities: D. B. Bailey, Publications (editor-in-chief of the “Wildcat Handbook”); D. R. Brandon, World Evangelism; G. H. Brown, Student Life; R. T. Coit, Freshman Work; D. M. Glasgow, Music; E. S. Hodge, Boys’ Work; S. F. Marsh, Deputations; W. C. Neill, Self-Help, Vocational Guidance; T. M. Phifer, Student Life; L. T. Purnell, Sunday School; B. L. Rose, Boys’ Work; R. H. Smith, Vesper Services; K. D. Weeks, Chapel Services.

Y Deputations Have Made Several Trips

Plan to Sponsor “Davidson Day” at Salisbury

Davidson students played an important role in the “Come Clean Campaign” sponsored by the Charlotte “Y” during the week of April 8. On Sunday, April 8, Pete Neill spoke to the younger boys, and Jim White addressed the older boys and young men at the Sunday School services held at the “Y.” The “Come Clean Campaign,” which was put on in all the high schools, junior high and grammar schools of the city, was launched on Monday, April 9. The deputation from the Davidson “Y” consisted of Don Brandon, Don Bailey, Rufus Morrow, Hervey Ross, “Duke” Glasgow, Tommy Phifer, and Bob Coit.

On Sunday, April 15, regular deputations were sent to Sherrill’s Ford and Valdese. Teal Rogers taught the Sunday School class, and Harold Ostwalt preached at the church service at Sherrill’s Ford, organ music being rendered by Doug Wauchope. A deputation held Sunday services at Valdese. A. B. Rhodes preached at the morning service, and Buddy Robinson played a violin solo. The evening sermon was preached by Jim Ficklen, and a vocal solo was sung by Robinson, with Henry Hodgin as accompanist. On Sunday, April 29, at the First Presbyterian Church of Salisbury, the “Y” will sponsor a “Davidson Day,” providing speakers and musicians for all the services of the day.

Local Theatre To Present “Spitfire”

Cinema Starring Hepburn Will Be Shown Tonight

Wednesday, April 18—Spitfire

Katherine Hepburn is presented in probably her best role up to the present time. She plays the part of the young country girl, Trigger, who is a religious fanatic. She makes a wonderful characterization of this simple country lass, and her acting in the part is outstanding. With her in the leading part is Robert Young. This picture shows that it is not her looks that make her a great star, but her good acting and her attractive personality.

Thursday and Friday, April 19 and 20—Bottoms Up

This is a new film and a new star, and both appear to be very good. Pat Paterson is the young girl who seems to be quickly climbing the heights, in this, her initial starring role. This is the story of three men leading a girl to happiness and love. The cast includes Spencer Tracy, John Boles, who manages to sing again in the picture, and Herbert Mundin. There is acting, humor, and music combined to make a good show.

Saturday, April 21—Devil Tiger

At last we have a show without human stars. This is another of, and presumably the best, of the wild animal pictures. The scenes are thrilling, and the action real, with nothing but genuine wild animals in the starring positions. The lives and actions of some of the most ferocious killers of the jungles are shown in bona fide pictures.

Monday, April 23—Gambling Lady

Barbara Stanwyck is starred with a perfect supporting cast, and a picture is shown with hardly anything left to be desired. Pat O’Brien and Joel McCrea are the men, and they fit in exactly right. Miss Stanwyck is the honest daughter of an honest father who died rather than join with a crooked mob. His daughter gambles, but honestly, and wins, after joining with a mob of big-time gamblers. All goes well until she falls in love with Joel McCrea, of Park Avenue, and then the action starts. There are a few dull spots, but the acting is good.

Tuesday, April 24—Laughing Boy

This show is so new that there is no information on it. Ramon Novarro comes to the screen again in a western role, and with him is Lupe Velez. If he sings enough, the show is certain to be good.

The editor of the Barnard College Bulletin has resigned because she claims attempts were made to censor the undergraduate staff which she headed.

It is rumored in the Midwest that the Carnera-Baer fight will be staged in the University of Minnesota stadium in June.

“DRUGS” “SUNDRIES”

A Complete Drug Store

“Make Our Store Your Store”

Reliable Prescription Druggists

WHITE DRUG COMPANY

“SODA” “PRESCRIPTIONS”

TRUE TO MEASURE FOR MEN AND BOYS

No Underwear could grow as HANES has grown, unless it offered comfort, quality and style! The complete Spring line of HANES is now being shown by wholesalers. Inquiries are cordially solicited. You will be happy with HANES—because your customers will be happy with HANES!

HANES WONDERWEAR

P. H. Hanes Knitting Co.

FOR EVERY SEASON

There is nothing miserly about the cutting of HANES Wonderwear. No skimping of a half-inch here and an inch there. HANES Shirts, Shorts and knitted Union Suits (both light and heavy) always tally with the tape measure. A size forty-two IS a forty-two.

Winston-Salem, N.C.