THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 26, 1934

ANNUAL FALL TENNIS TOURNAMENT SCHEDULED FOR OCTOBER

In the Field of Sports

FRESHMEN TO RUN CAKE-RACE THURSDAY

by Mont Brown

It’s this guy Mackorell again. He certainly has a very proper name for the way in which he performs on the gridiron, and I believe if you would ask Elon footballers about him they would concede that this elusive Wildcat leader is much harder to hold than any fish they've ever pulled out of the barrel. He was not only a menace when he carried the ball, but his punting, passing, and signal calling proved too much for the Christians. I wonder what North Carolina State will do in an effort to stop this man on Saturday night.

Coach Heartly “Hunk” Anderson gave his charges a holiday last Saturday, in order that he and other members of the Wolfpack tutelage crew might see the Wildcats in action before the highly tooted State aggregation is pitted against them in the Gate City this weekend. It will be an all-important game for Mr. Anderson, who formally makes his debut into North Carolina football with this contest. I hope that along with an improved type of football, the former Notre Dame mentor has inaugurated a common language at the technical institution, so the men will all be able to understand the signals without difficulty. It has been rumored that this was a big problem that the immediately previous regime found trouble in solving.

I am of the opinion that both Coach “Doc” Newton and Sports Editor Jake Wade of the Charlotte Observer are slightly mistaken when they say the Wildcats will finish the season on the bottom of the big five standing. In Sunday’s Observer, Mr. Wade, in summarizing his tour of the upper-quintet in North Carolina college football circles, very firmly predicted that the Duke University Blue Devils would carry off first honors in the state this fall with a clean slate, and that N. C. State, Wake Forest, Carolina, and Davidson would follow in the order given. Coach Newton, when asked about this bold prognostication, very pessimistically replied, “That's correct—I don’t see how it can be otherwise.” Maybe so, but my Missouri instinct makes me want to be shown. I’ve seen many Davidson teams stave off attacks that it seemed almost impossible for a team their size to stop.

Mr. Hugh Query, in a column on the sport page of The Gastonia Gazette last Friday afternoon, showed a very noble spirit of loyalty toward Davidson and its athletic interests by an answer he made to Mr. Dave Clark, big-shot alumnus of North Carolina State. Clark, it seems, made the prediction that State’s football teams would soon be to the place that it could only be bothered to schedule some of the big-time aggregations and consequently such small caliber schools as Davidson should necessarily be dropped by the wayside in order to make room for the big leaguers. The Gastonia Editor, however, let the Wolfpack backer know that he didn’t think Davidson authorities would object to being left off the State card. Mr. Query also suggested in a very subtle way that the directors at the Technical institution try to arrange engagements with St. Xavier and Ursinus. It’s time for this “stuff” to go to press, so until next week Felix and I will say “cheerio.”

SCORES 12 POINTS AGAINST ELON

Hutchens, Wildcat halfback and all-state captain, crossed the goal line twice Saturday afternoon in the game with the Elon Christians to make 12 of the ’Cats 33 points.

NON-ROTC MEN GIVEN EXERCISE

Physical Training Course Required For Underclassmen Not Taking R. O. T. C.

Due to the fact that R. O. T. C. is no longer compulsory for Sophomores and Freshmen, a required course in physical exercise has been added to the program of the college for these men who are not enrolled in the military course. The requirements for this course for Freshmen are as follows:

1—Members of the freshman class not taking military science will be required to attend prescribed lectures on health education and personal hygiene — one hour each week. These lectures will cover fundamental aspects of personal hygiene and health, including incidental study of physiology and anatomy, with emphasis placed upon health attitudes and habits. Reviews and semester examinations will be required as in the case of all other courses.

2—In addition to lectures, a parallel course will be prescribed and book reports will be required of all members of the class.

3—Supplementing this course and requisite thereto will be physical training throughout the year. Members of the class will be assigned to supervised sections in gymnastic work or to any freshman team engaging in intercollegiate athletics, provided that such members comply in full with regulations required by coaches as regards daily practice, training rules, etc. Such students, therefore, must engage in prescribed physical training.

CARS FOR RENT
Gulf Gas and Oil
M. P. HENDERSON

LYS. Clemson, TENS: OPEN SEASON WITH PREP ELEVEN

This Year’s Freshman Team To Be Light And Inexperienced

OPEN WITH DARLINGTON

Frosh Eleven Expected To Scrimmage Varsity This Week

The Davidson Wildkittens will open their 1934 gridiron schedule Friday week when they will meet the Darlington Prep eleven of Rome, Georgia, here. This will be the first of a five-game schedule that will also bring the V. P. I. and Duke Freshmen here. The young ‘Cats will take to the road but twice, meeting the Wofford and the N. C. State first-year men at Spartanburg and Raleigh respectively. The ‘Kittens will have a rather light team which will also handicap them a great deal. Laird will get his first glimpse of his proteges under fire the latter part of this week when they are scheduled to meet the Wildcats in a scrimmage.

The ends will probably be taken from Williams, Nicholson, Hall, or Raider. All have shown promise but more will be known about them after several days. The opening tackles will come from Goodman, Moore, and Ogborn, while Brown, Brent, and Kellam have been outstanding at guard. The Green brothers, Bob, Shytle, King, Wilson, and Overall have been fighting it out for the center berth. Gray, Faison, and Harrison have all served at the passing end, and Hogan, Dennis, and Williams have been doing most of the kicking in this capacity.

The ‘Kittens will be out to avenge several defeats of last year when they bowed to the V. P. I. Plebs and the N. C. State Freshmen. Their only win was over Wofford, and they of course will expect to gain another win from this school this year. Lees-McRae, with whom they ended in a 6-6 tie, does not appear on the schedule this season.

The schedule for the present has been announced as follows:
Oct. 5—Darlington Prep of Rome, Georgia, here.
Oct. 19—V. P. I. Freshmen, here.
Oct. 20—Wofford Freshmen, Spartanburg, S.C.
Nov. 9—Duke Freshmen, here.
Nov. 23—N. C. State Freshmen, Raleigh, N.C.

FELIX PREDICTS (words in Capitals indicate Felix's forecast)
DAVIDSON vs. State, Wake Forest, Newberry, GEORGIA SOUTHERN vs. Erskine, FURMAN vs. Presbyterian, EMORY-HENRY vs. Elon, DUKE vs. V. M. I., V. P. I. vs. Temple, KENTUCKY vs. W. & L., ALABAMA vs. Howard, OGLETHORPE vs. Auburn, FLORIDA vs. Rollins, GEORGIA vs. Stetson, MISSISSIPPI vs. Memphis Teachers, VANDERBILT vs. Mississippi A. & M., TENNESSEE vs. Centre, TULANE vs. Chattanooga.During at least three afternoons per week in special under supervision or during every afternoon on weekdays if permitted to do such “laboratory work” under supervision of those in charge of intercollegiate absence reports will be made to the Dean of Students as in the case of all other courses. The for sophomores will be the same as that for freshmen except that the classroom work will be of a more advanced nature. to a in reading and a prescribed classes sports.

FRESHMEN WILL RUN THURSDAY

Frosh Cross Country Candidates Are Urged To Enter Cake-Race Tomorrow

A large number of first-year men are expected to take part in the annual cake race, run at the beginning of every school year. This race is run every year for the purpose of getting the freshmen interested in athletics, and also to see which men are the best prospects for the cross-country races of the track outfit. Numerous prizes are given every year by business concerns and boarding houses in Davidson which serves as an incentive to make men enter the contest and try hard to win a place that carries a prize. In 1932, Earle Frazier established the record which is considered faster than school has ever been run before or since. “Pete” Whittle, assistant track coach and director of intramural sports, will be in charge of arrangements for the affair.

Davidson Defeats Elon

(Continued from Page 1)

He charged offensively and defensively at tackle during their time in the contest. The line-ups:

Davidson
Elon
MORAN
Troppoli
Hauselt
Mastro
Walser
Auman
Maurer
Windham
Herrington
Mackorell (C)
Newsome (C)
Wingfield
Stallings
Yarborough
Caruso
Hutchens

Davidson 13 6 7 7—33
Elon 0 0 6 6

Scoring touchdowns—Davidson: Morgan, Yarborough, Hutchens 2, Armfield. Points after touchdown, Pittman 2, Mackorell. Elon: Touchdown, Abbitt (sub for Neal).

Four out of Five College Men

ALL-AMERICANS GET INTO SHAPE

Schedule Will Consist Of Four Games With Junior Colleges In State

With several weeks of practical training in fundamentals well behind them, the “All Americans” under the able direction of Coach “Doc” Unger, are fast getting themselves into shape for a schedule, which will consist of four games. The squad faces a double task this week, with two scrimmages against the varsity and one game against the Wingate Junior College team scheduled so far. The scrimmage against the varsity will feature the use of several State plays by the “All Americans” in order that the regular first-string men will be familiar with “Hunk” Anderson's methods of playing football.

The reserve squad, which is composed of approximately twenty men, will frequently be called upon by Coaches Newton and McEver during the football season to afford opposition for their charges. Some men, who did not show up well at the first of the season, have been transferred from one position to another, in hopes that they will be available for varsity material next year. Outstanding men in the backfield are Carlson, Sadler, Johnson, and Sanders, while the bright lights of the line so far have been Purdy, J. Johnston, and Vass. Quick, Melton, Clark, Winn, McLean, Mosely, Cook, and Thurston are some other men who have contributed greatly to the squad. A few members were forced to drop out because of sickness or injuries, while five other men were moved up to the varsity squad this year.

Any men in school, who are desirous of playing football, whether they have had experience or not, will be welcomed by the squad. There are some who may wish to coach after graduation, since there is a custom here of awarding a graduate member of the team the position of assistant to Coach Red Laird every year, and these men will also be welcomed.

The schedule for the “All Americans” this year will be as follows:
Sept. 28—Wingate vs. All Americans. (Here.)
Oct. 5—P. J. C. vs. All Americans (there.)
Oct. 27—Mars Hill vs. All Americans (there.)
Nov. 9—Belmont Abbey vs. All Americans.

STUDENT TICKETS ISSUED

Student tickets for the home football games were issued last week. Each student is entitled to one of these for all home games. They bear the student’s name and are not transferable. These season tickets are good for the six home games, namely the Elon, Duke, William and Mary, Carolina, V. M. I., and Wake Forest.

NOTICE

Office Hours for Collection of Water, Light Invoices, and Taxes:
10:00 A.M. to 11:00 A.M.
4:00 P.M. to 5:00 P.M.

Davidson, N. C.
E. N. Linker, Collector

Buff Shoe Shop
Modern Shoe Rebuilder
Davidson, N. C.

STETSON CLOTHES
Made to Measure
$24.00 and up

Opening New JOHNSON’S BARBER SHOP
IDEAL BARBER SHOP

For good eats with good service and at a reasonable price come to
HOTEL DAVIDSON
RAY HARRISON’S

Shirts
Shave 15c
Haircut 25c

“Come Give Us A Trial”