THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 10, 1934

PLAN FOR HOMECOMING GAME

ALUMNI NEWS
EDITOR—GRIER MARTIN
ASSISTANT—JACK HELLINGER

Alumni Suggest Equal Team For Homecoming

Duke and Carolina Have Been Opponents of Wildcats in Most Homecoming Tilts

DESIRE CHANCE FOR WIN

V. M. I., Citadel, or William and Mary Are on Home Schedule for Next Year

That the Homecoming football game should be played with some school of approximately the same size and strength as Davidson
is the sentiment that has been expressed by many members of the Davidson Alumni Association. Several of the former students
have written to college authorities about this, and others have recommended such an action in conversation with members of the
Athletic Council of the college.

In the past it has been the custom to have either Duke or Carolina as the Homecoming Day opponent. This
year it was Duke and last year the Tar Heels furnished the opposition. Those making the recommendation suggest that it
would be better for the alumni to return to the campus on a day when the Wildcats at least have
an equal chance of winning. Among the schools suggested are The Citadel, V. M. I., William and Mary, or Washington
and Lee, all of which are near the size and strength of Davidson. The first three are on the schedule
for next year, and could easily be arranged for the Homecoming Day exercises. The University of North Carolina is the
only other home game which could be used as a Homecoming game, and the objections above have been made to
playing that school.

A Raleigh alumnus, writing about the situation, says, “It seems to me it would be better if for that particular
occasion Davidson met a team that we had better chances of beating... the idea of driving 300 miles to see
Davidson take a beating does not particularly appeal to me.”

Captain Norton G. Pritchett, director of athletics, is perfectly willing that the Homecoming game be made some other team besides
Carolina and Duke. He suggested The Citadel or V. M. I. as being natural rivals of Davidson in South Carolina
and Virginia, and indicated that either contest could be arranged as the Homecoming contest for next year. Davidson has played
both of these teams for many years, and the scores have always been very close. The Wildcats have the edge
on The Citadel in the number of games won, but the Virginia Cadets have a better record than the 'Cats.
A decision will be made by the Alumni Council at its meeting during Commencement as to which game shall be
the Homecoming contest.

Free Dance to Be Held By Chevrolet Company

In connection with an automobile show the Charlotte Chevrolet Company will sponsor a dance in honor of Davidson College on
the night of Tuesday, January 16, at 9:30 o'clock. Music will be furnished by Jimmy Gunn and his orchestra. Through
the courtesy of the Chevrolet Company the entire Davidson student body is invited to attend free of charge. They are
also asked to bring plenty of girls with them.

Mr. John D. McConnell Marries Miss Gorrell

During the Christmas holidays Dr. and Mrs. J. Moore McConnell attended the marriage of their son, John D. McConnell, to
Miss Margaret Gorrell, at Winston-Salem. While there they were the guests of Mr. and Mrs. S. Clay Williams at the
Robert E. Lee Hotel. Mr. Joseph McConnell, of the legal department of the N. R. A. at Washington, D. C.,
and Mr. Riggs McConnell, of the University of Virginia Law School, also attended the wedding.

With the Social Fraternities

K. A’s ATTEND CONVENTION: A number of the members of the local chapter of Kappa Alpha fraternity attended the national
bi-annual convention which was held in Columbia, S. C., on December 28, 29, and 30. T. Hooke McCallie was the
official representative of Sigma chapter. Sigma chapter of Kappa Alpha announces the pledging of Marshall Sanford, of the class of
'37, of Mocksville.

NEW BETA PLEDGE: William A. Zachary, of Cooleemee, was pledged to Beta Theta Pi fraternity on December 3, 1933.

THETA UPSILON OMEGA: Theta Upsilon Omega social fraternity announces the formal pledging of Earle Frazier. Frazier is a sophomore and
lives in Charlotte.

PI KAPPA PHI's HAVE PARTY: On Tuesday, December 19, the Pi Kappa Phi fraternity entertained at an informal party at
their house. There was a large number of girls present as well as many of the brothers and pledges. Refreshments
were served. The girls who were present were: Misses Rhett, Margaret McKnight, Mima Goodrum, Davidson; Pete Carroll, Sally Montague, Charlotte;
Louise Melchor, Margaret Melchor, Beth Norman, Mooresville.

Many Repairs Made on Campus Over Holidays

A good deal of repair work was done on the Davidson campus during the Christmas vacation. The classroom chairs in
Chambers Building were renewed wherever they had been scratched. The seats in the auditorium were also refinished where defaced. In
Chambers Building the floors of the halls, the college offices, and certain of the classrooms were rewaxed. All the dormitory
floors were scoured.

Fifteen Boys Initiated Into Hi-Y Organization

Under the general direction of Sam Nickey, the Y. M. C. A. boys’ work division has made two important steps
in the last week. Fifteen boys were initiated into the Hi-Y in Huntersville, January 8. This organization is in charge
of Geddie Munroe and Dick Hayworth. Because of the destruction of the old Louisiana Dormitory by the CWA, the boys’
workshop will be moved to the empty garage between the hotel and the jail. This removal will be completed in
a week or so, as several new machines will be installed, with the assistance of Sgt. B. R. Burton and
Professors W. N. Mebane and O. J. Thies.

The need to get away from our “traditional, classical, and mathematical schools” of today, and to substitute a more practical
curriculum in our educational system was pointed out by Professor George E. Carrothers of the School of Education at the
University of Michigan, over the radio last Sunday night.

President George Thomas of the University of Utah took from the university’s Sparks Club, organization for the study of economic
and political theories, its charter on the grounds that it had no right under the charter to make an official
trip to Carbon County, Utah, to study conditions in the coal fields where there recently was a strike.

Detroit University has an enrollment of 77 men and 3,543 women.

The Sheaffer Pen with Name in Gold FREE!

COLLEGE PHARMACY
Davidson’s “Service Drug Store”THE ALUMNI

'27 Miss Julia Clark and Mr. Daniel Malloy Calhoun, of Laurinburg, were married in Elizabethtown, December 29th. After a short
wedding trip, the couple will be at home in Elizabethtown where, for the past five years, Mr. Calhoun has been
principal of the local high school.

'27 Miss Agnes Thorne and Mr. John Sumter MacRae were married in Littleton on January 7th. Immediately after the ceremony,
the couple left for a wedding trip to Florida. After January 15th, Mr. and Mrs. MacRae will be at home
in Maxton. After spending several years in Europe, Mr. MacRae is now associated with his father in business.

'27 Miss Aileen Betsy Chamblee and Mr. John Wall Liles were married in Sanford, December 22nd. The couple are now
residing in Sanford where Mr. Liles is in the cotton and fertilizer business.

'28 Miss Irene Richardson, daughter of Dr. Donald Richardson, '02, professor of missions at Union Theological Seminary at Richmond, was
married January 6th to Rev. Charles F. McRae, of Maxton. After the wedding ceremony, Dr. B. R. Lacy, Jr., '06,
president of the seminary, and Mrs. Lacy entertained the bridal party. Following a honeymoon tour, Rev. and Mrs. McRae will
go to Tuscumbia, Ala., where Rev. McRae has accepted a call to the Presbyterian Church.

'28 Miss Mildred Hooker and Mr. J. W. McLaurin, of Laurinburg, were married during the middle of December in Hamlet.
After a bridal trip to Florida, the couple will live in Laurinburg where Mr. McLaurin is employed as a salesman.

'29 The wedding of Miss Rachel Albritton and Mr. Edwin Patten was quietly solemnized Wednesday morning, December 20th, at the
home of the bride. Immediately after the wedding, the couple left for a northern trip. They will be at home
in Calypso after the holidays, where Mr. Patten is connected with the Patten Package Company.

'31 Miss Isabel Craig Reid and Mr. Richard M. Hunter were married recently in Due West, S.C. After the wedding
trip, the couple will be at home in Charlotte, where Mr. Hunter is connected with the firm of George E.
Dombhardt, public accountants.

'31 Miss Dorothy Walland Jennette and Mr. Charles Kennon Marrow were recently married. Immediately after the ceremony, the couple left
for a northern motor trip. Mr. Marrow is at present a member of the Detroit baseball club. After January 1st,
the couple will be at home in Tarboro.

'32 Miss Margaret Gorrell and John D. McConnell were married in Winston-Salem, December 30th. The bride was given in marriage
by her brother, Robert Gorrell, '32, and Joe H. McConnell, '27, brother of the bridegroom, acted as best man. After
a wedding trip to Canada and other northern points, the couple will be at home in Winston-Salem, where Mr. McConnell
is connected with the bond department of the Wachovia Bank and Trust Co.

'32 Miss Helen Bruce Taylor, of Como, and Mr. John Hardee Boyd, Jr., of Greenville, were recently married in Greenville.
Following the wedding trip, the couple will reside in Greenville, where Mr. Boyd is connected with Robertson Chemical Corporation in
the capacity of Eastern Carolina representative.

A recent jewel display in Kannapolis showed the watch of Dr. R. R. Morrison, the first president of Davidson College.
The watch is very rich in value, being worth over a hundred dollars, as well as in sentiment.

'78 Rev. George F. Robertson, D.D., retired Presbyterian minister, recently preached a sermon in Clover, S.C., on the subject, “Woodrow
Wilson, the Christian.”

'05 On December 15th, the merchants of Fayetteville held a banquet honoring the officers now stationed at Fort Bragg. At
this banquet, J. Bayard Clark, United States Congressman from that district, acted as toastmaster.

'06 There appeared recently in the papers a picture of Miss Grace Stuart Richardson, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. H.
Smith Richardson, of New York City and Green Farms, Conn., who made her formal debut to New York society during
December.

'08 Dr. Oren Moore, well-known specialist of Charlotte, will deliver an address at Central School Auditorium in Gastonia on “Sex
Life in the Use” Thursday, January 11th.

'12 Mr. J. J. Barnhardt, vice-president of the Cannon Mills, Concord, who is quite interested in Boy Scout work, is
sponsoring a Scout Training School to be held in Kannapolis.

'16 J. H. Carson, former president of the North Carolina Association of Real Estate Boards and prominent realtor, was elected
president of the Charlotte Real Estate Board at a meeting of that Board recently. Mr. Carson, with the other new
officials, will be installed during the latter part of January.

'25 Julian R. Briggs has moved to Shanghai, China, and is with Swan, Culbertson, and Fritz there.

'29 Nelson Myers, who is associated with Armour Fertilizer Company, has been transferred from Nashville, Tenn., to Wilmington, N.C.

'33 An interesting article recently appeared in the Charlotte papers concerning Robert Glasgow. It seems that during a trip up
from Atlanta on the train, Mr. Glasgow was asked to hold a baby by a woman with whom he was
sharing his seat. Mr. Glasgow protested, but nevertheless, the baby was deposited in his lap. Upon arriving in Charlotte, he
found that he still held undisputed possession of the child. The young man became panic-stricken and as the train stopped
in Charlotte, Mr. Glasgow unceremoniously deposited the baby on the red plush seat beside him, seized his traveling bag, and
headed for the front of the train on a dead run. Before the train came to a complete stop, Mr.
Glasgow, with one last fearful look over his shoulder, swung rapidly to the ground and lost himself in the station
crowd.

Duke University SCHOOL OF MEDICINE DURHAM, N.C. Four terms of eleven weeks are given each year. These may be taken
consecutively (M.D. in three years) or three terms may be taken each year (M.D. in four years). The entrance requirements
are intelligence, character, and at least two years of college work, including the subjects specified for Grade A Medical Schools.
Catalogues and application forms may be obtained from the Dean.

TWO YEARS IN 12 HOURS It takes about two years’ time to learn the conventional shorthand methods, whereas ABC Shorthand
can be mastered in only 12 hours’ study. Convince yourself of this fact by examining a copy of the ABC
Shorthand for lecture and safety notes which is now selling for $1.00 at Davidson College Book Store.

© 1934, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.
