THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 31, 1934

FOUNDERS’ DAY: IN APRIL

ALUMNI NEWS
EDITOR—GRIER MARTIN
ASSISTANT—JACK HELLINGER

CHESTER ALUMNUS ELECTED AS SOUTH CAROLINA JUDGE
Colonel Arthur Lee Gaston Unanimously Elected to Sixth Judicial Circuit

CHOSEN BY S. C. ASSEMBLY
Graduated From Davidson in 1896, and Attended the University of Virginia

Colonel Arthur Lee Gaston, ‘96, Chester, S. C., was recently selected by a unanimous vote of the South Carolina General
Assembly as judge of the sixth judicial circuit of South Carolina. Colonel Gaston is one of the leading lawyers of
Chester, and is an outstanding member of the South Carolina bar. He was born in Chester on August 14, 1876,
and was educated in the city schools of Chester. Following his graduation from Davidson in 1896 he entered the University
of Virginia, where he studied literature, law and logic. Returning to Chester, he studied law under the late Judge George
W. Gage, and was in 1898 admitted to the Chester bar, in the firm of Caldwell and Gaston. Colonel Gaston
has had several terms in the House of Representatives of South Carolina, and at the time of his appointment was
serving as chairman of the judiciary committee of that body. In 1920 he was a delegate to the Democratic National
Convention in San Francisco. He is a director of the Commercial Bank of Chester, Chester Building and Loan Association, and
of the Aragon-Baldwin Mills. During the Spanish-American War he was a first lieutenant of infantry, and was a lieutenant colonel
on the staff of Governor Richard I. Manning in 1915-19. Colonel Gaston has been married twice, first to Miss Virginia
Aiken and after her death to Miss Edith Byrd Smith, who is also deceased. He is an elder in the
Purity Presbyterian Church, and teacher of the Gaston Bible Class.

S.C. Judge (Courtesy Charlotte Observer)
COL. ARTHUR LEE GASTON

All-Time Davidson Team to Be Selected
Wade Ison, editor of The Charlotte News, is conducting through the columns of his paper a vote for the all-time
All-Davidson team. He is urging everyone to send in a ballot on the subject, and the team securing the most
number of votes from the fans will be given the distinction of being the official all-time Davidson team. The voting
is to last for several weeks, and alumni who desire to vote should send in their ballots immediately to Wade
Ison, The Charlotte News, Charlotte, N. C. The results of the voting will be announced in a later edition of
The Davidsonian.

WITH THE ALUMNI

‘65 General William A. Smith, of Ansonville, Anson County's most distinguished citizen, celebrated his ninety-first birthday recently at “The Oaks,”
his ancestral home. At the noon hour a number of his friends called for dinner, and in the afternoon he
was honored by the Anson County Chapter of the U. D.C.

00 Charles G. Rose was the speaker at a recent meeting of the Fayetteville Rotary Club. He spoke on the
overthrow of the eighteenth amendment.

08 Dr. John McSween, president of Presbyterian College, and Mrs. McSween suffered minor injuries recently in an automobile collision which
overturned their car. Mrs. McSween suffered a head injury and a sprained ankle, while Dr. McSween escaped with only minor
body bruises.

09 Rev. H. C. Whitener, who has been working with the Indians in Albuquerque, New Mexico, has recently written a
dictionary for the Indians. This is the first dictionary they have ever had. In compiling this book Rev. Whitener found
that there was a great similarity between the Indian words and the Japanese.

MM Dr. Clarence R. Wilcox, former headmaster of the Darlington School for Boys, is now administrator of Shorter College, at
Rome, Ga. His first work was an effort to increase the endowment for the institution. Dr. Wilcox has been acting
president of the college for a brief period.

15 National recognition has come to Captain James C. Harper, director of the Lenoir High School Band, in the form
of election as one of the directors of the National High School Band Association. Captain Harper has recently returned from
the National Band Clinic at Chicago.

'16 Dr. William Hollister, medical missionary to Korea, has been compelled to come to America to recuperate after an illness
caused by typhoid fever.

'19 Rev. and Mrs. Edgar Woods are the foreign representatives of the Presbyterian Church of Salisbury, their work being at
Sutsein, Kiangsu, China. On December 20, 1933, about 5:00 a. m., George S. Bennett, operator of an amateur radio station
near San Francisco, Calif., picked up a call from Station AC2rt, in Peiping, China. He received the following message: “First
Presbyterian Church; Salisbury, N. C., season's greetings, Edgar Woods.”

22 Dr. T. A. Lacy is now on the staff of one of the New York hospitals for the insane.

22 McKeithen, who has been connected with the law firm of Parish Harold and Dail for six years, has become
local manager of the office of the Prudential Life Insurance of America, at Winston-Salem. This office will control the mortgage
loan service for several states, as it will be the headquarters for a large area.

28 Daniel A. Currie, a teacher in Presbyterian Junior College, was recently appointed clerk of the committee on election, No.
1, of the National House of Representatives by Representative J. Bayard Clark, '05, chairman of that committee.

29 Murphey L. Carr, who for the past four years has been science teacher in the Rose Hill High School,
recently went to Washington, where he has an appointment as assistant in the bill clerk’s office of the House of
Representatives. Mr. Carr was appointed by Representative C. L. Abernathy of the Eastern District.

'32 Bennett Moseley has recently accepted a position with the Federal Land Bank of Columbia, S. C.

'33 George Bailey has a position in the furniture department of Ivey's Store in Charlotte.

'33 Fred Fleagle is taking a three months’ course at Akron, Ohio, with the Firestone Rubber Co.

Union Theological Seminary
RICHMOND, VIRGINIA
Distinguished for 121 years in the training of men for the ministry and particularly for its emphasis on the preparation
of pastors and teachers.

NEWARK BANKER HONORED BY BANK
In a recent edition of a Newark, N. J., newspaper, under the heading of “Men About Town,” appeared an interesting
article concerning the life of L. A. Chambliss, a graduate of Davidson in the class of 1917, who is now
assistant vice-president of the Fidelity Union Trust Company, Newark, in charge of publicity. Prominent mention is made of Mr. Chambliss’
experiences at Davidson College, where he entered in 1914. At the commencement exercises in 1917, Chambliss was prepared to present
to the audience a speech which had met with faculty approval. But, feeling very strongly against the war spirit that
was brewing in the country at the time, he changed his topic and spoke against the entrance of the United
States into the war. He confesses now that it was a rather poor speech, and that it probably made very
little impression on the audience, but after it was all over the president of the board of trustees came up
to him and said, “My boy, you have the courage of your convictions.” However, after serving as a teacher of
English in his preparatory school, McCallie, he entered the army as a private, and rose to an officer's rank before
the war was over. After the war he worked successively for The Chattanooga News, the government, and then took a
position as publicity man for the Guaranty Trust Company in New York. He was sent by this concern to start
a public relations department in the Wachovia Bank and Trust Company in Winston-Salem. In 1924 Chambliss was recommended to the
president of the Fidelity Union Trust Company for the headship of the publicity department there, a position which he immediately
accepted. In 1927 he was made assistant vice-president. His prominence in New Jersey, as is shown by the fact that
he is chairman ofThe committee of the New Jersey Bankers Association, chairman of the publicity committee of the Newark Community
Chest, publicity chairman of Mayor Ellenstein’s NRA committee, chairman of the program committee of the Rotary Club of Newark, vice-president
of the Advertising Club of Newark, treasurer of the New Jersey Citizens League, and a director of the Financial Advertisers
Association of America. While in college Mr. Chambliss was a member of Beta Theta Pi, Omicron Delta Kappa, and Sigma
Upsilon. He is now president of the Plainfield Riding Club, a member of the Essex Club, Plainfield Country Club, and
of the Nantucket Hunt Stables. He lives in Plainfield, and has a summer home in Nantucket. He is married and
has two daughters.

Deaths
'76 Dr. E. M. Summerall, of Rowan County, died Sunday in Statesville. The funeral services were conducted by Dr. Walter
L. Lingle.
'92 Mr. Houston J. Brown died last Saturday in Charlotte after a short illness. Funeral services were conducted at the
Davidson College Presbyterian Church by Dr. H. M. Moffett and Dr. C. M. Richards. Adrian M. Sample died December 31,
1933, at his home in Fort Pierce, Florida. Mr. William W. Grier, prominent Charlotte businessman, died recently at his home
in Charlotte. He was very active in both business and religious affairs there.

Plans for Founders’ Day Are Announced
Plans are being formulated for the celebration of Founders’ Day for Davidson College. The date has not been definitely set,
but it will come about the middle of April, and will be celebrated by alumni clubs all over the country
at the same time. The college is in its ninety-seventh year, and at the celebration, plans will be announced for
the celebration of Davidson's centennial, which will be held in 1937. Present plans include a talk by a prominent alumnus
at the chapel exercises on that day, the holding of alumni meetings all over the country, at which members of
the faculty and administration will speak, and the broadcasting of a half-hour radio program which will be listened to by
all the clubs. The radio program will include greetings by the president of the college, a talk by some prominent
alumnus, and some music by Davidson musical organizations. The plan to have all the chapter meetings at the same time
is an innovation at Davidson. In the past, the meetings have been scattered, and there has been no unity about
them. An alumni magazine, to be sent to all alumni, will be issued the latter part of March, and it
will be the Founders’ Day edition of the magazine.

Marriages
'13 Mrs. Pauline Hood Bowers and Dr. Douglas Heath Nesbit were married in Kinston at the home of the bride's
mother, December 16, 1933. Following the ceremony, the couple left for a wedding trip to New York, after which they
will reside in Charlotte where Dr. Nesbit is associated with his father in the practice of medicine.
'25 Miss Stewart Beauchamp and Dr. William P. Weeks were married recently in Greenwood, Miss. Following a wedding trip through
the Mississippi Valley, Tennessee, and North Carolina, the couple will be at home in Charlotte where Dr. Weeks is engaged
in the dentistry profession.
'28 Miss Mildred Hooker of Laurel Hill, and Mr. J. W. McLaurin of Laurinburg were recently married in Laurel Hill.
'28 Miss Elizabeth Roberta Gilmour and Rev. Julian Lake were married in Wilmington, December 30, 1933. The bride was given
in marriage by her brother, Monroe Taylor Gilmour, '29. Following the ceremony, the couple left for an extended wedding trip,
after which they will be at home in Warrenton, Va., where Rev. Mr. Lake is the pastor of the Presbyterian
Church.
'33 Mr. and Mrs. Elmo Murray Sellars announce the marriage of their daughter, Margaret Walker, to Mr. George Sergeant Sherrod,
on Saturday, December 23, 1933, Greensboro, North Carolina.

Births
Rev. and Mrs. E. H. Hamilton announce the birth of a daughter, Dorothy Grier, May 28, 1933, Suchowfu, Ku., China.

Two Alumni Write Magazine Articles
Two Davidson alumni have recently made notable contributions to magazines devoted to English literature and philology. They are Prof. H.
K. Russell, '23, of the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, and Prof. W. I. Gallaway, Jr., '24, University
of Kentucky at Lexington. Mr. Russell wrote an article for “Studies in Philology,” January issue, entitled, “Tudor and Stuart Dramatizations
of the Doctrines of Natural and Moral Philosophy.” Mr. Gallaway wrote on the “Sentimentalism of Goldsmith” in the December issue
of the “Publications of the Modern Language Association.”

Eumenean Society Has Interesting Civic Talk
“The curse of America is conventionality,” said John D. Allan at the regular meeting of the Eumenean Literary Society Tuesday
night. In his talk, he deplored the tendency to “follow the herd” that dominates nearly every phase of American life,
politics, theology, economics, literature, and taste. “The middle class of American people are sadly lacking in the desire to excel,”
observed Allan, and “conformity and complacency are almost in the definition of Americanism.” In the morals of our “movie-made” children
are presented the worst feature of following the crowd. Reviewing his case, he stated that it is left to the
youth of America to stem the tide and rejuvenate America’s morals, politics, and backbone. Fields Horine gave an original reading,
“Ghengis Khan, the Emperor of All Men,” an imaginative sketch of the famous Mongolian leader, to conclude the literary program.
An election of officers was carried on during the program, the results of which will be announced later.

William H. Neal Elected Vice-President of Bank
To Have Charge of Public Relations of Wachovia Bank and Trust Co.
MEMBER OF CLASS OF '17
Was Formerly Connected With Charlotte National Bank
William H. Neal, '17, Winston-Salem, N. C., was recently elected vice-president of the Wachovia Bank and Trust Company of Winston-Salem.
He will be in charge of the public relations activities of the bank. For ten years Mr. Neal was connected
with the Charlotte National Bank in Charlotte, and for six years served as the secretary-treasurer of the Charlotte Clearing House
Association. He resigned this position in 1929 to assume a position with the Wachovia Bank and Trust Company as manager
of its public relations department. The Wachovia, in addition to the main office in Winston-Salem, operates branches at Raleigh, Asheville,
High Point, and Salisbury. Mr. Neal will have charge of the public relations activities for the entire system.

Williams Donates Cup To Pi Kappa Phi Frat.
It has been announced that Jack Williams, Jr., of the Senior class, is the donor of a silver loving cup
to be awarded to the best all-round freshman in the Pi Kappa Phi fraternity for the spring semester just begun.
The merits on which the selection will be based are: scholarship, participation in extra-curricular activities, and interest in the fraternity.
Williams has just resigned as president of the chapter for the first semester and felt that he wanted to show
some appreciation to the fraternity for their support during his tenure of office. It will be called “The Jack Williams,
Jr., Trophy.” The cup stands 18 inches high on a metallic base. The inscription reads, “Awarded to the Best All-round
Pi Kappa Phi Freshman.” Space is left for engraving the name of the winner for the spring and fall terms.
Because of its size, there will be enough room for many years to place other names on the front and
back. The trophy will be kept in the chapter house. Dr. G. R. Vowles has been asked to present the
cup to the pledge group tonight and point out the advantages of winning such a prize.

“Y” Deputations Render Many Services Afield
Since the first of the year, the Y. M. C. A. has been sending two speakers to the Charlotte “Y”
every Sunday to speak at their regular Sunday afternoon meeting for boys. One speaker talks to the older boys, while
the other talks to a younger group. The “Y” also sends a deputation to the church at Sherrill’s Ford every
first and third Sundays of the month. In addition to these two regular commissions, the “Y” sends speakers to any
church, Sunday School, or Y. M. C. A. group which needs a speaker. On last Sunday night, a deputation conducted
the evening services at Steele Creek Church in Charlotte.

Davidson Theatre
WEDNESDAY
“FOUR FRIGHTENED PEOPLE”
CLAUDETTE COLBERT—HERBERT MARSHALL
THURSDAY
“FUGITIVE LOVERS”
ROBERT MONTGOMERY—MADGE EVANS
