THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 18, 1934

TENNIS TEAM OFF TO CHAPEL HILL

Around the Wildcat’s Lair

WILDCAT NINE DEFEATS DUKE

It was the misfortune of your commentator not to see the anniversary day contest between Coach “Red” Laird’s charges and the Duke Blue Devil nine, but the story of that ninth-inning rally has been told to me so many times since the game that I am thoroughly convinced it was a thriller. That three-base blast of Mackorell’s which brought across the plate the tying and winning runs certainly must have carried with it the sobs and tears of Coach Jack Coombs and all Duke supporters, but best of all, it bore the smiles and cheers of many Wildcat fans. It was a hard game for the Dukes to lose, but on the following afternoon (Friday, 13th), this Durham outfit with the superb hurling of May and almost “air-tight” fielding from the other members of the club redeemed itself in wholesale fashion by a very decisive victory over the Lairdmen, 12-1.

Jack Jenkins, who, from all reports, pitched an excellent game when the ’Cats downed the Devils, showed very clearly that he’s got what it takes to do mound duty on any college aggregation. Like all of the Wildcat hurlers, he throws them over in the orthodox fashion, but his control is unusually fine, and that ‘tater doesn’t always travel in a straight line when he’s doing the twirling. The jam-up backing of his teammates was also a big factor in the outcome of this game. It was most ably executed, and particularly on the part of Teal Rogers, center-fielder, who proved himself in these two contests a more excellent fly-catcher than that story-book spider which craftily wooed the winged pest into his web, from which it couldn’t escape.

The Wildkitten baseball team has lost three games in as many starts, but Coach McEver plans to effect a few shifts in the line-up, which he believes will make a more effective combination. This squad is a little weak on pitchers, but potentially this boy Somerville looks like a fairly nice moundsman. Howard at the “hot corner” and Quick on shortstop appear to be a promising pair. They are practically error-proof in the field and have nice level swings at the plate.

Minus the services of “Slow” Evans and “Scatter Brain” Pittman, our track team suffered its first defeat of the season last Saturday afternoon, being nosed out by the University of Tennessee cindermen. It seems to me that a bit of poor strategy was exercised in this meet, by running Earl Frazier, our strongest distance man, in the one-mile when it was known that no member of the opposing squad could equal the time of any three of our milers, rather than enter him in the two-mile race, in which the Vols used a man better than our two slower runners, but considerably slower than Frazier. Had the men been raced in this way, it is the belief of the author that the Wildcat tracksters would have returned with the scalps of the Tennesseans. This marred what might have been an undefeated season for Captain Pritchett’s proteges, but every Davidson team seems to have a Waterloo.

Miller Cochran won his usual firsts in the shot and discus. This fellow has verily done his share toward winning track meets for the Wildcats this year. In every meet he has accounted for at least 10 points and in some for as many as 13. It is a worthy captain who can ALWAYS be depended upon by his teammates to deliver the goods.

Most glory-deserving of all the Wildcat representatives is the tennis outfit. During the spring holidays, while most of the student body were having a big time, these racquet-wielders were publicizing not only themselves and the fighting spirit characteristic of all Davidson athletic teams, but also the college as a whole, as they won victory after victory in Florida, Georgia, and South Carolina. The team engaged in six matches on this trip, and not once did they taste defeat.

(Continued on page 6)

’Cat Team Honors Founders Day And Defeats Duke 5-4

Johnny Mackorell Slams Ninth-Inning Triple to Bat in Winning Run

DUKE EVENS SERIES

Jenkins Pitches Heady Ball to Stall Devil Batters

Duke’s Blue Devils opposed the Wildcat nine in a two-game series April 12 and 13. A large audience witnessed the series in which each team gained a victory. Davidson showed improved hitting and fielding in winning her second conference victory, but proved very disappointing in the second game, which was lost by a 12 to 1 score. The game was played on a cool and windy day, which seemed to add to the pep of both teams. Davidson got off to a fast start by pushing over two runs in the first inning. Duke tied up the score in the second and by the eighth inning the Blue Devils were holding a two-run lead. Johnny Mackorell, shortstop for the Wildcats, furnished a thrilling climax to the game in the last half of the ninth inning. With two out and two men on base, Mackorell stepped up to the plate and slammed a three-base hit which scored two men and clinched the game for Davidson. Rogers and Burns did some brilliant fielding while Mackorell, Smyre, and Burns led the hitting attack.

Duke
Ab R H O A E
Bell, 2b 5 0 1 2 1 0
Friend, ss 4 1 1 1 3 0
Hitchcock, rf 4 0 1 0 0 0
Weaver, lb 4 0 1 10 0 0
Wagner, c 4 0 0 8 0 0
Cornelius, cf 4 0 0 1 0 0
Michael, ss 4 1 1 2 1 0
Hendrickson, 3b 3 1 1 1 1 0
Wooten, lf 3 1 0 0 0 0
Morris, p 3 0 2 0 3 0
Totals 34 4 8 26 18 1

Davidson
Ab R H O A E
Mock, rf 4 1 1 0 0 0
Smyre, ss 4 1 1 2 1 0
Mackorell, 3b 5 1 2 0 0 0
Morgan, lf 4 0 0 5 0 0
Bumgarner, 2b 3 0 0 1 4 1
Burns, 1b 4 0 1 11 1 0
Rogers, cf 4 0 0 4 0 0
Ravenel, c 4 1 1 6 0 0
Jenkins, p 4 1 0 0 4 0
Totals 36 5 6 27 14 2

(Continued on page 6)

Centennial Netmen To Play Several Matches

Six men will compose the freshman tennis team this year. The men were selected by elimination from 26 entries. The last of the elimination matches was played last Saturday. The following list of the freshman team was released by Ed Garrett, junior tennis manager. The men in order of their rank are: Carl Carlson of Greensboro, Wade Boggs of Atlanta, Ga., Jack Gaw of Greensboro, Leonard Woodward of the Philippine Islands, Henry Cassady of Davidson, and Hoke Robinson of Columbia, S. C. These men will form six singles and three doubles teams. Six matches have already been scheduled for the Davidson team. The schedule is: Charlotte High School, April 18, here; Erskine, April 20, here; Darlington, April 23, here; Furman, April 25, here; Lees-McRae, April 27, here; Charlotte High School, May 2, at Charlotte.

Davidson Netmen Win Tenth in Row

Virginia Country Club Goes Down Before Wildcats

The Davidson tennis team won its tenth consecutive victory of the season at Richmond last Saturday, April 14, over the Country Club of Virginia. The team left Davidson on Wednesday, April 11, on its northern trip. They defeated the University of Virginia at Charlottesville on Thursday, 5 to 4. On Friday they triumphed over William and Mary at Williamsburg with a score of 9-0. They met the Country Club of Virginia at Richmond on Saturday and won with a 7-1 count. The summary of the games follows:

University of Virginia, 4; D. C., 5
Singles: Halverstadt defeated Morrison, 6-4, 3-6, 9-7. Rohmann defeated Thompson, 6-1, 6-4. Wallace defeated Barnett, 6-0, 3-6, 6-4. Lewis defeated Taylor, 1-6, 6-2, 6-3. Fletcher defeated Scott, 6-2, 6-3. Phifer defeated Hedges, 7-5, 8-6.
Doubles: Halverstadt and Scott defeated Wallace and Morrison, 6-2, 4-6, 6-4. Thompson and Lewis defeated Rohmann and Hedges, 10-8, 6-3. Phifer and Barnett defeated Fletcher and Taylor, 4-6, 7-5, 6-4.

William and Mary, 0; D. C., 9
Singles: Halverstadt defeated Kerner, 6-1, 6-0. Thompson defeated Fink, 6-0, 6-1. Barnett defeated Schmidell, 6-1, 6-2. Lewis defeated Franklin, 6-0, 6-0. Scott defeated Owen, 6-1, 6-0. Phifer defeated McLeod, 6-2, 6-2.
Doubles: Halverstadt and Scott defeated Kerner and Schmidell, 6-0, 6-1. Thompson and Lewis defeated McLeod and Franklin, 6-2, 6-3. Barnett and Phifer defeated Owen and Fink, 6-3, 6-1.

Country Club of Virginia, 1; D. C., 7
Singles: Halverstadt defeated Miller, 7-5, 6-1. Cabell defeated Thompson, 7-5, 8-6. Barnett defeated Spicer, 6-4, 6-3. Lewis defeated Valentine, 6-1, 6-2. Scott defeated Smith, 9-7, 6-4. Phifer defeated Carrington, 6-1, 6-3.
Doubles: Halverstadt and Barnett defeated Miller and Cabell, 6-2, 6-4. Thompson and Lewis defeated Tabb and Lathrop, 6-4, 6-2. Scott and Phifer tied with Valentine and Spicer, 3-6, 11-9 (incomplete).

Doc Unger Conducting Spring Wrestling Now

Coach “Doc” Unger is conducting spring wrestling practice this year for the first time. HisThe purpose is to teach the new boys interested in this sport the fundamentals of wrestling and to give the freshmen a better chance to make the team next year, since there was no freshman team during the past season. Unger is especially working with the men in the lightweight classes. He hopes to find potential men to take the vacant places on next year's team. The following men are out for spring practice: J. M. Douglas, J. B. Huntington, J. F. Morrison, J. G. Willis, W. A. Stuckey, L. G. Vass, W. B. Moore, J. W. Santiago, H. C. Vaiden, R. C. Sours, C. A. Harper, W. M. Beaty, L. T. Purnell, F. M. Mack, Paul Harlan, I. E. Verble, G. E. Vogler, L. P. Baker, J. H. Sadler, R. B. Lindsay, and J. D. Allen. None of these men were on the varsity squad last season, but there is enough material in this lot for an excellent team next winter. Coach Unger asserts that one of his main difficulties during the campaign just closed was the lack of variety of weights among his men, but this should be relieved by such a goodly number of prospects reporting for spring drill.

Cat Golfers Split Matches

Defeated by Furman and Win Against U.S.C. Linkmen

The golf team broke even last week in its matches with Furman and the University of South Carolina, both matches being played in Charlotte. The strong Furman team was met on Thursday, and although the Wildcat linkmen were leading at the end of the first nine, they were finally defeated, 12-6. The individual scores are:

Davidson: (1) Bowman, ½; (2) Barnes, 2½; Bowman and Barnes, 1; (3) Hamrick, ½; (4) Cannon, 1½; Hamrick and Cannon, 0. (Total, 6.)

Furman: (1) Ferguson, 2½; (2) Dawes, ½; Ferguson and Dawes, 2; (3) McGee, 2½; (4) Smith, 1½; McGee and Smith, 3. (Total, 12.)

Meeting the Gamecocks on Friday, the Davidsonians came back to gain a decisive victory, 13-6. The individual scores are:

Davidson: (1) Bowman, ½; (2) Barnes, 2; Bowman and Barnes, 2; (3) Hamrick, 3; (4) Cannon, 3; Hamrick and Cannon, 2½. (Total, 13.)

Furman: (1) Jones, 2½; (2) Hart, 1; Jones and Hart, 1; (3) Clarkson, 0; (4) Abraham, 0; Clarkson and Abraham, ½. (Total, 5.)

The team is composed of recently-elected Captain Bowman, who was chosen after the match Thursday and who plays number 1; Barnes, number 2; Hamrick, number 3; Cannon, number 4, and Bunn, alternate. There are three sophomores and one junior on the team. The next match, also to be played in Charlotte, comes this Saturday, when the Duke team, one of the strongest in the state, will be met. The Wildcats seem to be steadily improving, and by the time the state intercollegiate meet rolls around, they should be able to offer some real competition. The team will make a trip to Atlanta, Ga., later in the season and one to Durham and Chapel Hill to meet Duke and Carolina and compete in the state meet.

Seniors Defeat Frosh By Large Score, 63-13

In the first game of the intramural baseball tournament, played last Wednesday afternoon, the Seniors swamped the Freshmen, 63-13. On Monday afternoon the Juniors downed the Sophomores, 19-15, in a closely fought battle.

In the Senior-Freshman game, T. Hooke McCallie and Lynn Huie were the outstanding players for the victors. McCallie pitched for the Seniors, and Pritchard and Garrison for the Yearlings. In the Sophomore-Junior game Johnny Siewers hurled for the Juniors, while Benfield and “Big Six” Johnson were on the mound for the losers.

In the first tennis match the Sophomores defeated the Juniors, 5-1. The Sophomores are captained by Bill Bell and the Juniors were led by Tom Sutton. The Freshmen were scheduled to play a match with the Seniors on Monday afternoon, but the match was postponed until Tuesday, as too few yearlings reported to play in it. Tuesday the Seniors met the Sophomores. The result of this game was not available at the time the paper went to press.

These tournaments are being conducted as the basketball tournament was. Each team will meet each other team in the tournament twice. The pairings for these tournaments and the time the games are to be played is posted on the bulletin board in the lobby of Chambers.

Headquarters

LISTEN TO SPECIAL BROADCAST FRIDAY, 7:15

COLLEGE PHARMACY

DAVIDSON’S “SERVICE DRUG STORE”

WBT in - Davidson

Davidson Track Team Wins And Loses To Tennessee Vols

Records Broken

Thus far four Davidson College records have been broken this year by two members of our track team—Frazier and Cochran. In 1932 “Soup” Brannon ran the mile in 4 minutes, 38.8 seconds, but this year Earl Frazier bettered the record in the Richmond meet to 4 minutes, 38.1 seconds, and in the University of Tennessee meet he lowered his own record to 4 minutes, 36.8 seconds. Frazier also broke Brannon’s 1932 record of 10 minutes, 01.2 seconds for the two-mile by running it in 9 minutes, 59 seconds during the Furman meet. Last year Cochran put the shot 44 feet, 3 inches, and this season made that record look small with his new record of 46 feet, 9 inches. He also superseded his old discus record, 134 feet, 4 inches, made last year, by a 138-foot, 4¾-inch throw.

Freshmen Defeated By Three Opponents

Wingate, Newton, and Gastonia Defeat Centennial Nine

Due to errors, loose fielding, and failure to hit in the pinches, the freshman baseball team lost their first three games in a row last week. Davidson played Wingate here on April 10 as an opener and lost, 16-1. Wingate decidedly outclassed the freshmen, marking down sixteen hits and one error, while Davidson had only three hits and nine errors. Sommerville and Gracey pitched for Davidson.

The next game was with Newton High School on the latter’s diamond, and again the freshmen were defeated. McKinney started the game on the mound for Davidson, but was relieved by Porter, who stopped a thick barrage of hits. The final score was 11-3, with Newton making eleven hits to Davidson's three.

On April 12 the Centennials played Gastonia at Gastonia. Coach McEver revamped his line-up and the team showed marked improvement, in spite of the forced absence of Bill Quick from the line-up. Gastonia won by a margin of 9-5, but Davidson outhit (Continued on page 6)

Attention! Order Your Personal Engraved Cards Now. Twenty Styles to Pick From And A SPECIAL PRICE FOR DAVIDSON STUDENTS

Bill Johnson—203 Watts

Standard Printing Company

Dispute Arises as to Correct Scoring System to Use in Recording Meet

VOLS WIN 61 TO 56 According to N. C. A. A. Regulations Wildcats Win 67-59

Davidson's varsity track team either won its third consecutive victory or lost its first meet of the 1934 season when it encountered the University of Tennessee at Knoxville last Saturday. According to newspaper reports, Tennessee won the meet by a score of 61 to 56. In scoring the results the Tennessee officials allotted points for only first and second places and also held a relay event, which Tennessee won. However, had the meet been scored according to the system approved by the National Collegiate Athletic Association, which recommends that points be given for the first three places and which does not approve the holding of relay events in dual meets, then Davidson would have won the meet by a score of 67 to 59.

Captain Norton G. Pritchett, coach of the Davidson team, did not go with the team to Knoxville, but he sent a balanced group to compete against the Vols, under the impression that points were to be given for three places in each event and that no relay event was to be held. Whether Davidson won or lost will probably never be determined, but according to the scoring system under which the Wildcats have always recorded their meets, Davidson came out victorious over Tennessee last Saturday.

Tennessee presented a one-man track team in Harry Anderson, six-foot sophomore, who personally accounted for 19 of his team’s points by taking first places in the 100 and 200-yard dashes, and broad jump, and tying for first in the high jump. Miller Cochran, Davidson’s captain, won firsts in the shot put and discus throw, and third in the javelin to lead his teammates with 11 points. Earl Frazier, Davidson sophomore, continued his record-breaking performances by running the mile in 4 minutes, 36.8 seconds for a new Davidson mark, eclipsing the one he set in the Richmond meet by 1.3 seconds.

Davidson made clean sweeps in the two hurdles events, with Lanier Pratt, Fred McPhail, and Frank Parker finishing in order in the highs, and Mc- (Continued on page 6)

Davidson Theatre

WEDNESDAY “SPITFIRE” KATHERINE HEPBURN—ROBERT YOUNG

THURSDAY AND FRIDAY “BOTTOMS UP” SPENCER TRACY—PAT PATERSON

SATURDAY “DEVIL TIGER”

MONDAY “GAMBLING LADY” BARBARA STANWYCK—JOEL McCREA

TUESDAY “LAUGHING BOY” RAMON NOVARRO—LUPE VELEZ