THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 11, 1934

FIRST ALUMNI JOURNAL ISSUED LAST WEEK

ALUMNI NEWS EDITOR—GRIER MARTIN
ASSISTANT—JACK HELLINGER

Alumni Journal Is Sent To All Alumni
Magazine Is Well Received—Will Be Voted on at Commencement

Engagements

Mrs. William Weimar Sloan, of Franklin, announces the engagement of her daughter, Elizabeth Daniel, to JAMES SHUBAL MCALISTER, Jr., of New York City, formerly of Greensboro. The marriage will take place in New York some time in May.

The first issue of the Davidson College Alumni Journal was mailed to Davidson’s 4,500 alumni last Thursday. A decision will be made at the commencement meeting of the Alumni Association as to whether the magazine will be continued or not. The comment of those not attending the meeting will be taken into consideration, and all alumni are urged to express their opinion about the matter.

Thomas J. Smith, Charlotte, announces the engagement of his daughter, Margaret Gibbon Smith, to JAMES WHAREY GREY, Charlotte. Miss Smith is a sister of Sam Smith, '29. The marriage will take place in May.

Many alumni and others have written in about the magazine. Some of their comments are given below:

“I have just received volume one, number one, of the Davidson College Alumni Journal and am hastening to congratulate you on this splendid publication.” Harlee Branch, Jr., '27, Atlanta, Ga.

Marriages

Mr. and Mrs. George Wayne Patterson, Charlotte, announce the marriage of their daughter, Mary Stafford.

“I have just received a copy of the Alumni Journal and am delighted with it.” Rev. E. P. Davis, D.D., '73, Greenville, S.C.

“The Alumni Journal came this morning, and I have just read it with a great deal of pleasure.” E. R. McConnell, '29, University, Va.

“Thank you very much for the copy of the first Alumni Journal. It is one of the best I have ever seen.” Clarence E. Tobias, secretary of Guilford College.

“Congratulations on the fine volume one, number one of your Alumni Journal.” William H. Wranek, Jr., editor, Virginia Alumni News.

Alumni Meetings

Following is a list of the meetings of local chapters being held tomorrow night, with the president of the chapter and the speaker of the evening:

Atlanta, Ga.—President, Dr. E. L. Bishop; speaker, Dr. Frazer Hood.
Central Florida—President, Sidney Ives, Orlando.
Concord—President, W. W. Morris; speakers, F. L. Jackson, Flake Laird, and J. W. Unger.
Gaston County—President, R. D. Hall, Belmont; speaker, Gene McEver.
Greenville, S.C.—President, John I. Smith; speakers, Dr. J. W. MacConnell and G. H. Brown.
Greensboro—President, T. D. Dupuy; speakers, Professor A. Currie and Captain N. G. Pritchett.
Jacksonville, Fla.—President, Dr. W. McL. Shaw.
Raeford—President, W. M. Fairley, D.D.
Staunton, Va.—President, J. B. Daffin.
Wilmington—President, Dr. J. E. Evans.
Winston-Salem—President, George W. Coan, Jr.; speakers, Coach Wm. Newton and Professor Ernest Beaty.

Washington, Philadelphia, New York, and Boston meetings will be held later in the month, with the alumni secretary in attendance.

COLLEGE PUBLICATIONS TO COMPLETE STAFFS
(Continued from page 1)

Jack Williams, president of the board, Odi Casali, and W. L. Fugate. The board has held regular meetings throughout the year and has discussed various problems which have arisen in connection with publication work, such as questions of finance and management. The members of the board believe that the publications at Davidson have been unusually successful this year in handling their problems, in spite of the fact that advertising, the chief source of revenue, has been somewhat decreased. The present business managers of the publications are: B. O. Ravenel, manager of the Annual; W. T.Johnson, manager of the college paper; A. W. Colwell, manager of the college magazine; and J. A. C. Wadsworth, manager of the handbook. These men will continue their work until the end of the year, and they will help the new managers to become acquainted with their work. The University of Florida debate team has just concluded a 14-day tour of the Midwest, where they met the debate representatives of leading colleges and universities.

GENERAL W. A. SMITH, Ansonville, commander of the North Carolina Division, United Confederate Veterans, will donate to the people of Anson County a handsome granite memorial commemorating the mothers of the Confederacy, it was announced recently. General Smith is Davidson's oldest living alumnus.

DR. HENRY LOUIS SMITH, of Greensboro, president emeritus of Washington and Lee University, and former president of Davidson, recently spoke at the Asheboro Street Baptist Church in Greensboro.

DR. J. M. McCONNELL, professor of history at Davidson, was recently guest-speaker at the Second Presbyterian Church in Charlotte.

JUDGE C. G. ROSE, Fayetteville, is a member of the stewardship and finance committee of the Presbyterian Church.

In a special story from Washington, Robert E. Williams, Washington correspondent of the Raleigh News and Observer, says that S. CLAY WILLIAMS, president of the Reynolds Tobacco Company, is one of the outstanding members of the New Deal.

DR. W. T. THOMPSON, Richmond, Va., is a member of the stewardship and finance committee of the Presbyterian Church.

Representative J. BAYARD CLARK, Fayetteville, has done much in Congress to help the tobacco farmers of the state.

A committee of five men from the Presbyterian Church in Raleigh has asked DR. BEN R. LACY, president of Union Theological Seminary, to accept the call to the First Presbyterian Church in Raleigh. Dr. Lacy is a son-in-law of Dr. White, who recently died.

DR. BRUCE CURRY, professor at Union Theological Seminary in New York, spoke recently at the installation of the president of Talladega College, in Alabama. He spoke on “Religious Resources for Social Reconstruction.”

DR. WADE H. BOGGS, Atlanta, Ga., is a member of the stewardship and finance committee of the Presbyterian Church.

There recently appeared in the Spartanburg Herald a story of the success of DR. JOHN McSWEEN at Presbyterian College in South Carolina.

DR. OREN MOORE spoke at a meeting of women in Belmont, N. C., recently.

The Cass, W. Va., Presbyterian Church held their family church party on March 16, with Rev. J. T. PHARR as general chairman. The party was a decided success.

REV. D. P. McGEACHY, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Monroe, recently conducted the Y. M. C. A. services at Presbyterian Junior College at Maxton.

REV. E. B. McGUKIN, pastor of the Lafayette Presbyterian Church at Norfolk, Va., has accepted a call to the church at Winchester, Va.

W. A. McKNIGHT has been awarded a fellowship in Spanish at the University of North Carolina.

“It’s toasted” I smoke Luckies because the finest tobaccos and only the clean center leaves give Luckies that better taste. But they don’t stop there. For throat protection, “It’s toasted!” Long golden strands of only the center leaves... rolled round, and firm... no loose ends. That's why Luckies “keep in condition”—do not dry out. Luckies are all-ways kind to my throat.

NOT the top leaves—they’re under-developed—they are harsh. NOT the bottom leaves—they're inferior in quality—coarse and sandy!