THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 14, 1934

Exhibit of Bibles On Display at Library

The current exhibition in the library is a collection of Bibles and New Testaments in various languages. Of special interest is a copy of the Vulgate (Latin) Testament written in a fine hand by a scholar of Balliol, and copies of books of the New Testament in Moon and Braille. There is a copy of the translation of Matthew into the New Mexican American Indian Keres dialect by Mr. Whitener, Davidson College, '03, and a commentary on the New Testament in Chinese by Dr. Richardson of Union Theological Seminary. There are also copies of the Scriptures in French, German, Spanish, Swedish, Danish, Icelandic, Gothic, Sanskrit, Korean, Romaji-Japanese, and other languages. Some other miscellaneous volumes of general interest have been included in the exhibit.

UNIQUE PLANS ARE MADE FOR JUNIOR SPEAKING

(Continued from page 1)

The three dances will feature the music of Johnnie Long and his Duke Collegians, who, according to all reports, may be classed as one of the best college orchestras in the South. The Randolph Macon and the N. C. State College newspapers have recently carried articles featuring high praise of the musicians. Long played for the Roosevelt Ball in Raleigh, and was a decided success. He has also played for college dances at schools all over Virginia and North Carolina, always being received favorably. The band features Wayne King type music as well as tunes of a faster tempo. They carry with them three vocalists, and are supported by their own amplifying system. They have the reputation of being one of the few successful co-operative orchestras in the country.

The tickets for this dance went on sale Tuesday. These tickets may be obtained from the following men: Skip Brown, Rigdon Dees, Duke Glasgow, Jimmy Harper, Charlie Harris, J. B. Lee, Fred McPhail, Mims Rogers, Teal Rogers, Frank Tucker, K. D. Weeks, and Hugh Yelverton. The same system of tickets will be used for this group of dances as was used for the last group of Pan-Hellenics. Receipts will be taken up at the door, but the receipt book will be at the armory in case someone fails to bring the receipt.

As an added attraction for the weekend, the students will be able to attend the first home engagement of the Davidson Glee Club and Orchestra, who are to perform on Friday night, March 23, at 8 o’clock, in the Chambers Auditorium.

PROMINENT MEN GIVE VOCATIONAL LECTURES

(Continued from page 1)

trical engineering, ministry, and teaching. The names of those who will deliver these lectures will be announced later.

In his talk on law as a vocation, Mr. Currie discussed first what law is, giving a few short examples of typical cases. He then gave some advice on what courses to take in college while preparing for a law course. He said that practical business courses such as accounting and business are to be preferred to Greek and Latin. In reference to law school, Mr. Currie said that any well-equipped school is sufficient, but that it is best for a man to attend law school in the state where he intends to practice.

DRAMATIC SOCIETY PRESENTS “CANDIDA”

(Continued from page 1)

he is a weakling. The poet falls in love with Candida who, although already married to the doctor, agrees to choose the weaker of the two. In the course of the play, much to Morell’s consternation, she selects him. The comedy element in the story was furnished by Mr. Burgess, Candida’s father, and Proserpine Garnett, Dr. Morell’s secretary, and the young curate who worships Dr. Morell.

The play was under the direction of Gordon Wood and under the supervision of Prof. E. J. Erwin. Rehearsals were held during the three weeks preceding the presentation. A large amount of work was done by A. S. Rachal and his assistants on the scenery and the stage settings, which were said to be one of the best in the history of the club.

PAUL WARREN IS ELECTED CHEER LEADER

(Continued from page 1)

have as assistants the boys in the Sophomore class who come out for cheer leader. Then after the first football game next year Warren will hold an election to decide who will be his junior assistants during the school year.

Ever since the beginning of school in September, Warren, the victor, and Hanrahan, the loser, have served Head Cheerleader Hawkins in the athletic events both on the campus and elsewhere. They were elected by the student body from a field of ten men and Tuesday the final election decided Warren as the students’ choice for the post.

“D” CLUB APPROVES STRICTER CONSTITUTION

(Continued from page 1)

man, who shall interest themselves in the matter of more general student participation in athletics.

Attendance

“All members are expected to attend every meeting unless prevented from doing so by sickness, absence from college or because of other reasons beyond personal control.

“In all cases of unexcused absences delinquent members will pay to the treasurer of the D Club a fine of twenty-five (25) cents for every such offense. Excuses may be made personally by the absentee to the president of the D Club, and such excuse will be accepted or rejected by him.

“In all cases where the fine is to be imposed, such will be paid within twenty-four hours following the decision.

“If a member misses as many as two consecutive meetings without an excuse he will be dropped from the roll of the D Club.

“Regular meetings of the D Club shall be held at some time within the week between the first and second Sunday in each month.

Order of Procedure in Regular Meetings

“A quorum shall consist of two-thirds of present student members.

“1. The president will call the meeting to order at exact time announced. Prayer Roll call.

“2. The reading of the minutes of the preceding meeting.

“3. Report of committees.

“4. Old or unfinished business.

“5. New business.

“6. Adjournment.

“NOTE: The president will adhere to the policy of terminating all regular meetings within one hour after the club has been called to order unless the will to continue may be expressed by the majority vote, in which case any member may leave meeting with the understanding that he shall have no voice in such discussion as may be pending at the time of the motion to continue.

Membership

“1. All men shall be eligible to become members of the D Club who have made their D while a student at Davidson College.

“2. All eligible men shall be passed upon by a three-fourths vote of the entire active membership in the D Club before being declared candidates for initiation.

“3. Any member may be expelled by a three-fourths vote of the entire active membership in the D Club at any time, for any actions contrary to the principles andPurposes of the D Club

Initiation
“The initiation fee shall be $4.00, this amount to include the gold ‘D.’
“No member shall be initiated until the above fee has been paid to the treasurer.
“The initiate shall be required to take the following pledge:
“1. As a member of the D Club, I pledge my loyal support of all traditions and ideals that should characterize athletics at Davidson College.
“2. I shall strive to maintain such traditions by my personal attitude and by complying with the training regulations prescribed for any sport in which I have indicated my intention to engage by signing my name upon the squad roster.
“3. I shall endeavor to hold my loyalty to the college and my regard for its athletic welfare above personal preference for or prejudice against any member of any team. I shall, therefore, regard it my duty to make known to the D Club or to proper officers thereof any violation of training regulations that may have occurred to my best knowledge and belief.
“Any member who violates this above oath shall automatically be dropped from the D Club.

Method of Supporting Training Regulations
“1. The coach of each sport shall place in the hands of the president of the D Club the training regulations to which he wishes his squad to adhere. These regulations shall be signed by each member of the squad to which they apply.
“2. It shall be the duty of the D Club to publish the regulations and the names of the members of the squad in the Davidsonian. Also, these names shall be posted with the regulations of the respective sports in some designated public place.
“3. Any member of the squad who violates the training regulations shall come before the D Club to be judged accordingly. If he is found guilty of the violation by a two-thirds vote of the D Club, he shall be dropped from the squad.

Amendments
“1. This constitution may be amended by a three-fourths vote of the D Club.
“It is the will of the D Club that this constitution be printed yearly in the Y. M. C. A. Handbook.
“It is the will of the D Club that the student body of Davidson College co-operate with the D Club in its effort to enforce the purposes of this organization, as set aside in the above constitution.”

FIRING AT RANDOM (Continued from page 4)
tournament to decide varsity players for this year’s team. Nearly thirty candidates have been practicing on the local courts, and we believe the ’Cat tennis team will be able to do justice to an extremely tough schedule. The interest of these men in the sport is shown by the fact that one of their major trips is to be taken during the Easter holidays. Tennis, golf, baseball, track—all proclaim the arrival of spring, and spring is the ideal season for all sports. The Davidson coaches have urged that more men come out for sports. Improve your physique, and at the same time help the standing of Davidson in the intercollegiate sports world.

BLACKS DOWN REDS 13-0 IN FINAL GAME (Continued from page 4)
In 51 attempts, the Reds gained 168 yards from scrimmage and the Blacks gained 138 yards in 85 attempts. The Reds received three penalties totaling 25 yards while the Blacks lost 15 yards on three penalties. Both teams punted eight times with the Blacks averaging 34 yards per kick, and the Reds 25 yards. One Red punt was blocked by the fast-charging Blacks. All proceeds from this game were donated to Barium Springs Orphanage.

The line-ups:
Reds (0) Blacks (13)
Koenig R.E. Windham
Johnson, Bob R.T. Cathey
Hand R.G. McClung
Lee Center Reed
Brewer L.G. Johnson, Dick
Siewers L.T. Armfield
Newton L.E. Richardson
Johnson, Swede Q.B. Pearce
Baumgarner R.H. Verble
Mackorell L.H. Pittman
Yarborough F.B. Hutchins

Referee, Causey (South Carolina); umpire, Touhy (Colorado); headlinesman, Ison (N. C.).

JOE MORRIS CONTINUES AS BASEBALL CAPTAIN (Continued from page 4)
The team will probably play a pre-season game with some strong semi-professional team in the next few weeks and will meet Michigan State on the 27th. All the other games on schedule are with Big Five opponents. Alternate Captain Mock will act as regular captain for the 1934 season.

EVANS IS STAR FOR DAVIDSON TEAM (Continued from page 4)
minutes, 24.5 seconds. Everett of Virginia cleared the 70-yard high hurdles in 8.7 seconds to cut .2 off the previous mark. Wildemer of Maryland equalled his own record of 6.3 seconds for the 60-yard dash. Captain N. G. Pritchett, director of athletics of Davidson, stated that he was pleased with the showing the track team made at Carolina.

COACH LAIRD SEEKS TO REBUILD BASEBALL CLUB (Continued from page 4)
In the infield, “Woody” Burns and McLain will probably take care of first base, Baumgarner may handle second and Mackorell and Smyre will compete for short. Mock, alternate captain, and Loftin, will take the hot corner. “None of the positions are sewed up,” says Laird, “and they are all subject to change at any time.” The outfield is Laird’s “unknown quantity,” although a large number of candidates are out for those positions. With Morgan, Partridge, Weeks, Rogers, Haake, Stewart and Gladstone out as candidates, and with the possibility of McLain and Wingfield being shifted to outfield, the chances are that it will be well taken care of. Facing a much harder schedule than usual and with poorer prospects than last year, the squad is due some heavy training. The offense and the pitching will be weaker due to the absence of left-handers, and the defense may be stronger. “How the squad will line up individually will depend upon how the players hit,” states Laird. “Some are on the job and working hard and they are the ones who will get positions.”

You Have Tried the Rest Now Try the Best
Norton’s Barber Shop
CARS FOR RENT
Gulf Gas and Oil
M. P. HENDERSON

© 1934, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.
72 SO.. Can SAY
Chesterfields are not like others
No two people in the world look alike... act alike. So it is with tobacco... just like folks. No two leaves are the same. And it’s the same with cigarettes... no two brands are alike. Furthermore, not only are the tobaccos different, but the way the tobaccos are handled is different. This, you can understand. You know just as well as we do that no two manufacturers use the same kinds of tobaccos, or blend them or cross-blend them or weld them together in the same manner. We do everything that science knows and that money can buy to make CHESTERFIELD as good a cigarette as can be made. We hope you like them. They are “not like others.”

Chesterfield
the cigarette that's MILDER
the cigarette that TASTES BETTER