THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 31, 1934

SERGEANT KIRBY TRANSFERRED
Replacement For Staff Sergeant

Sergeant Jasper Leroy Kirby, a member of the faculty of the Davidson unit of the R.O.T.C., has been transferred to Georgia Military Academy, at College Park in Georgia. Sergeant Kirby, who is a Staff Sergeant of the U.S. Army, was in charge of the office and clerical help while at Davidson. Although the regular term is four years, Sergeant Kirby had been at Davidson for ten years, having come here in 1924. During the War he was a second lieutenant of infantry and served with the First Division during its entire stay in France. He was intensely interested in civic affairs, being Commander of the Cornelius and Davidson posts of the American Legion and prominent in Masonic circles, of which order he had attained the 32nd degree. Major John T. Rhett, when asked to make a statement about Sergeant Kirby, stated that his work both at Davidson and in the community was excellent and that he was sorry to lose him. The loss of Sergeant Kirby will be regretted by the Military Department, which receives no replacement for him, and by the students, among whom he had made many friends during his stay here. He left Davidson October 27, going direct to his new post at College Park.

Stars Meet Stars In Touch Football

The greatest touch football stars that have ever entered Davidson meet on a green and red cast field just north of the Chambers Building. An amalgamated assembly of Phi Kappa, O.D.K. and other less omnipotent students meet in daily combat for stardom.

Davidson Jets

Bizarre teams composed of one hundred percent quarterbacks spurn poignant line drives but send bullet passes into remote corners of the field. Adamant walls of bodies break up kicks and powerful zeal. Asinine plays elicit laughter and scorn from the sidelines, sometimes composed of one passing student. But nothing will prevent huge scores, ranging from twenty to sixty, from piling up. Intricate plays, with perhaps twenty backfield men in action, fail in gaining yardage against their ruthless opponents. Harmony is expressed in every movement of the two teams. No umpire dictates yardage for penalties, because they have no penalties. Five downs are considered the maximum. No five-yard or fifty-yard lines mark this playground, and goal posts are nil. “Ten yards to go,” they don’t know what that means on their seventy-five by forty-yard park. Their own particular “All-American” stars are recognized by the mutual consent of the students. Chubby, fat, thin, sorry players are considered chubby, fat, thin, sorry, but they all play when they want and no coach tells them when to come or go. Playing days range from Monday through Saturday of every week, no admission.

Masquers Give Program

Continued from Page 1

Made up entirely of upperclassmen, performed in a manner which was quite up to professional standards and much credit is due them for their splendid performance. The entire group, fourteen in all, showed creditably and they too may be complimented. Plans for the future have been slightly revised and it has been decided that a mystery play, either a melodrama or a comedy, is to be given in November, and if a suitable Christmas play can be worked up, it will be produced shortly before the holidays. The Masquers have adopted a new policy: that of inviting select members of the audience to turn in written critical opinions of the plays presented. This will be done in an effort to gather information and opinions which will enable the Masquers to offer better drama in the future. These criticisms will be to more intelligent directing and acting with the view of better dramatic interpretation. It must be said that the two plays were well received, but due to unforeseen circumstances, the Red and Black Masquers were not able to edify the third play scheduled, GRANDMA PULLS A STRING.

The Twentieth Century Club of Davidson met Friday afternoon with Mrs. J. V. Lore. Prof. Henry Lilly, the guest speaker, gave an interesting talk on Winston-Salem.

Mrs. James C. Fleagle Plans To Unite Two Spanish Chapters

The Sigma Delta Pi held a meeting on Wednesday night at nine o'clock, in Shearer Hall. A program was mapped out whereby a Spanish topic is chosen for discussion at one or more subsequent meetings, in an effort to learn more about Spain. Professor Fleagle is trying to make arrangements to unite the fraternity’s chapter at the University of South Carolina with the one at Davidson, these two chapters being the only ones in this section of the country. At the last meeting bids were issued to the following: Woody Burns, Johnny Mackorell, Enid Bowers, and J. W. White. All efforts are being made to make this chapter a bigger and better one, under the direction of Professors Fleagle and Blythe, the principal advisors of the organization. There follows a list of the officers elected last Spring to hold office during the year 1934-35: Hugh Yelverton, president; Ray Richardson, vice-president; Charles Fort, treasurer; and Tom Downie, secretary.

Loving Cups Are Given To Willson And Dickson

Two large silver loving cups were given to two boys by the local chapter of Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity.

Dr. Lyons Lectures On Photographic Methods

The Photographic Club held its weekly meeting on Wednesday, October 24th, at four-thirty P.M., in the classroom of Dr. Lyons. Dr. Lyons, head of the Biology Department, spoke on the types of backgrounds which may be used in photographic procedures. He divided backgrounds into two general types: the two-phase type and the three-phase type of background. The term “background” as used has a rather particular meaning in that it refers to the whole picture rather than to any single portion. The two-phase type of picture consists of a main subject and subordinate but harmonious elements. In this there is no suggestion of depth or distance, and is the sort of general type that one finds in most portraits. The three-phase type consists of one subject and two or more groups of subordinate elements which are harmoniously related, and which in combination serve to suggest depth and distance in the picture. This second type is a much more artistic and difficult one than the first. The ambitious photographer hopes to make successful pictures of this second type and works toward such a goal, as it is much more interesting. Dr. Lyons illustrated the lecture with prints fromhis own personal collection and also invented the classifications, as presented here.

Divided Glee Club Will Now Aid Chapel Singing

A division of the Davidsen Glee Club into two individual groups during the daily chapel hour was recently inaugurated in order to distribute the volume of singing more evenly throughout the entire auditorium. One section of the glee club, consisting of approximately twenty, remains on the speakers’ platform while the other division, of equal size, sits in the balcony of the auditorium. The two groups interchange boys in the rear of each week. Mr. James Christian Pfohl, director of music, who is responsible for this change, made the division according to voices so that the volume of singing of each group would be approximately equal.

Mills Taylor was recently selected to act as president of the Glee Club to fill the vacancy brought about by the failure of Dave McLain to return. Taylor previously filled the vice-president’s chair. McPhail was elected business manager, Carlton Chapman, assistant manager, and Kenneth Scott, librarian, to fill the offices of the club for the coming year. According to Lorenzo McPhail, assessments will be made of the Glee Club members for current expenses. A trip to Greensboro and another through Virginia are planned for club members. 

New Members Chosen By Country Gentlemen

The Country Gentlemen, a social club composed of members of the three upper classes, held their first official meeting in Watts Dormitory last Thursday night. President Billy Atwater presided over the meeting which was held for the purpose of electing new members to the club. Prospective men were nominated and voted on during the session. The following men were issued invitations to join: R. D. Kornegay, Tom Duff, Percy Mims Rogers, J. A. C. Wadsworth, Reggie Harris, Hinton “Scottie” McLeod, Bud Hunter, Henry Cathey, Tom Downey, Ed Carlson, Robert Peters, and Armfield.

The old members of the club are W. E. Atwater, Charlie Harris, Singleton Maynard, Billy Ravenel, “Skip” Brown, D. Weeks, Mal Grimes, and Charlie Thompson. The Country Gentlemen will hold their first social event of the year after the Homecoming dance on Saturday night in Charlotte.

Rhodes Applicants Reminded

Those candidates for the Rhodes Scholarship who have not yet done so are reminded that they should apply in writing (not on the official blank) to the local committee on or before Saturday, November 3. Applicants should name the state in which they wish to appear.

Eight Seniors Honored

Continued from Page 1

of Sigma Pi Sigma honorary chemistry fraternity. A. B. Rhodes, of Rocky Point, ranks fourth in the class. J. H. Powell, of Navasota, Texas, is an R. O. T. C. officer and a member of the honorary Physics fraternity, Sigma Pi Sigma, and is also a member of the Sigma Phi Epsilon social fraternity. These eight men are entering the Gamma chapter of Phi Beta Kappa in its eleventh anniversary. Davidson, with the University of North Carolina and Duke University, are the only institutions in the state possessing chapters of the nationally known fraternity. This is a great compliment to the scholastic rating of the college. Davidson is the smallest of the aforementioned schools and has one of the highest scholastic ratings in the South. Twenty-four members of the Davidson Faculty are members of Phi Beta Kappa.

Dr. Price H. Gwynn, head of the Department of Religious Education at Davidson College, occupied the pulpit of the Myers Park Presbyterian Church in Charlotte, Sunday morning. He took the place of Dr. Edgar Gammon who is ill.

Ingredients of Vicks VapoRub in Convenient Candy Form

VICKS COUGH DROP

W. W. Caligan Secured By Johnny Long’s Band

Johnny Long and his Duke Collegians are featuring as their main drawing card arrangements including seven violins.

Davidson Theatre

Elbert Willson, varsity fullback of last year, was given a cup of eighteen-inch diameter for the most improvement in scholarship over the two semesters of last year. The other, a cup of the same proportions, was given to Walter Dickson, a sophomore this year, for the most representative first-year man in Pi Kappa Alpha. The giving of these two cups will be from now on an annual custom of this social fraternity.

Woodrow W. Caligan, Davidson graduate of the class of '31, after studying for his M.A. at Carolina, has secured the position of guitarist and arranger for Johnny Long's orchestra, formerly of Duke University. “Woody” Caligan, while at Davidson, was guitarist and only arranger for Brice Robinson and his North Carolinians. He was a member of Pi Kappa Phi, social fraternity; Sigma Upsilon, literary fraternity; president of the Glee Club; and a member of the Yowl staff.

Johnny Long's orchestra, which has played for several Davidson dances, is located at the Tantilla Gardens, West Broad St., Richmond, Va. This ballroom, which has recently featured Rudy Vallee, will now have Johnny Long's band.

Norton’s Barber Shop

W.I. Van Ness’ - Charlotte

Pfohl rendered several piano selections.

Let’s find out why Turkish tobacco is so important

On the sunny slopes of Smyrna... in the fertile fields of Macedonia... along the shores of the Black Sea... grows a kind of tobacco that is different from any other tobacco in the world.

These Turkish tobaccos are the only tobaccos of foreign cultivation that are used to any great extent in making American cigarettes. Turkish tobaccos are famous for their spicy aroma, and a blend of the right kinds of Turkish tobacco with our own home-grown tobaccos is better than any one kind used alone. In Chesterfield we balance mild, ripe tobaccos grown in this country with just the right amounts of the right kinds of Turkish. It is by blending and cross-blending these different tobaccos that we make Chesterfield the cigarette that’s milder, the cigarette that tastes better.

MONDAY ROSA PONSELLE

Turkish tobacco hung in the open air to be cured.

WEDNESDAY NINO MARTINI

SATURDAY GRETE STUECKGOLD

KOSTELANETZ ORCHESTRA AND CHORUS

9 P. M. (E. S. T.) —COLUMBIA NETWORK