THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 21, 1934

N. C. STATE WRESTLERS HERE SATURDAY

Around the Wildcat’s Lair

WILDCATS MEET ERSKINE FRIDAY

The old saying, “Every dog has his day,” can be well applied to the authorship of “Firing at Random.” Hold
on for a few more weeks, readers, while we inexperienced sophomores take our unsteady aim at “Random.”

Next week will bring to a close what has been a rather disastrous winter sports program. Our Wildcat basketeers were
annihilated in the state race. All four of the other teams in the Big Five defeated them twice. Friday night
the quintet will tangle with Erskine; let’s all go down and help them win their third collegiate victory. Two victories
over the same Little Six team should never go down as the record of any Davidson team. The record chalked
up by the frosh is much better than that of the varsity, and they are to be commended for their
victory last week over the Tar Babies. The ‘Kittens still have three games before they turn in their uniforms Saturday.
They ought to boost their average and finish in a blaze of glory.

The grapplers made their first appearance before the student body last weekend when they lost to the University of North
Carolina. Handicapped throughout the season by injuries and a lack of weight in the heavier classes, these Wildcats have turned
in a good account of themselves against some stiff competition. Blackwelder and Hodgin looked good against Carolina, the former in
victory and the latter in defeat, as they took on men who outweighed them ten and fifty pounds respectively. N.C.
State’s wrestlers gave Carolina a duck egg; so if you want to see some real matches, keep your eyes on
the Wildcats when they fight State Saturday night.

Spring football promises to reveal, or re-emphasize, some real talent for the 1934 Red and Black machine. The practice game
of last week was ragged, but taking plays here and there throughout, one could get together one quarter of good
football. Those who saw the game know that Wingfield and Mackorell can still lug that leather when given the chance.
Dick Johnson, Big Six Johnston, and John Newton looked mighty good in the line.

Saturday night in the course of the Freshman-Lees McRae basketball game, Coach Peabody summoned Peters to put him in. Peters
proceeded to remove his sweat clothes, but was his face red—! he didn’t have on any pants. The Lees-McRae team,
which is coached by Fred Dickerson, a Davidson graduate, was playing its second game of the season. The boys from
Banner Elk have been in quarantine on account of measles. They played the freshmen on even terms in the first
half and put up a good fight in general. Congratulations, Fred! That was a good football team you brought to
Davidson last fall, too.

It has always been a mystery to the men of Davidson that some few are willing to jeopardize the good
name of Davidson's Wildcat Spirit in athletics and sportsmanship by such actions as the “booing” which took place at the
wrestling match with Carolina. It's such actions as this that cause sports to be taken out of the program of
athletics. In fairness to our wrestlers, our coach, our visitors, and ourselves, let’s make it a point to put a
stop to this sort of thing by not doing it ourselves, and discouraging it in others. General disapproval is the
best rod for discipline we can keep in the closet ready for use.

For my part, I’d give a pretty price for a ticket to a game between the All-Time Davidson team and
the Duke Blue Devils of 1933, North Carolina’s Rose Bowl contenders. It would undoubtedly be a thriller, perhaps with a
reverse of the score of our game with them this year. There are not many students here now who can
recall the grid exploits of these warriors, but some of us who have followed them...

(Continued on page 8)

Yearlings Win Over Carolina But Lose to Duke Frosh 25-33

Freshmen Defeat Lees-McRae and Salisbury High for 75% Average

QUICK, KNORR STAR

Duke and Carolina Games Well Fought

The Davidson freshmen were overpowered Monday night by a strong Duke team, 33-25, in a double-header played in Durham. The
game was well fought with the fresh offering threat after threat, only to be turned back by the superior Duke
team. Playing heads-up ball, our first-year men led their opponents during the first quarter, but were slightly behind in score
as the whistle brought the half to an end. Duke's freshmen led throughout the second half, but never had a
lead sufficient enough to use any but their best men. Peabody was high point man for the game, amassing a
total of 11 points. The team played well as a unit and showed much team spirit throughout the contest.

D. C. Frosh-Carolina Frosh

A neck-to-neck contest was brought to a close Tuesday night when the Davidson freshmen eked out a 24-22 victory over
the strong Carolina first-year team at the University. Davidson led at the half, 12-10, and never exceeded a four-point lead.
Both teams were playing at their best and the game was in the hands of fate till the last basket
was made by our first-year men, gaining the victory for the Kittens. Knorr starred for the home team, making a
total of nine points to gain the distinction of being high point man.

Davidson-Salisbury

Davidson men ran rough-shod over Salisbury High in the local gym to the tune of a 29-15 score. The outcome
of the game was never in doubt, with the fresh leading their opponents at the end of each quarter by
at least 10 points. Many members of the second and third teams were sent into the contest so as to
gain experience for future games. Cathey was high point man, making 10 points, to be followed closely by Quick with
eight.

Davidson-Lees-McRae

Porter and Swindle starred for the freshmen as they gained a decisive victory over Lees-McRae Saturday, gaining nearly twice as
many points as their opponents, the score being 43-22. Tuesday night the freshmen played Boiling Springs. The result of this
game was not known at the time of publication.

Six Men Will Be Picked For Varsity Golf Team

Elimination Tournament Will be Held Here on First of March

There are sixteen men out for the varsity golf team this year. From these a team of four men and
two alternates will be chosen. The elimination tournament will be held about the first of March. In this elimination match
there will be eighteen holes played here; and then, the eight high men will go to Charlotte to play another
eighteen holes to choose the team of four and two alternates. Last year’s entire varsity graduated, so the team will
be largely composed of sophomores. Charlie Hamrick, a sophomore, is captain of this year’s team. The team’s entire schedule has
not yet been made out, but they will meet Duke, N. C. State and Carolina in two matches each and
will make a trip to Atlanta. On this trip they will meet Furman, Georgia Tech, and either Emory or the
University of Georgia. At present fourteen of the men out for the team are holding a tournament with fourteen faculty
members. Only a few matches have been played in this tournament, but the students are leading by a slight margin.

Alabama College at Montevallo is broadcasting a regular series of Sunday morning programs from its campus. The broadcasts deal with
education.

As the third annual “Flaming Five” contest, conducted by Jake Wade, Charlotte Observer sports writer, draws to a close, the
public is showing a decided favor to football players by giving the first four places to the gridders. Fred Crawford,
All-American tackle of Duke, is leading the field of more than eighty other candidates by polling a total of 162
votes. George Barclay, North Carolina guard and second-string All-American, is holding second place with 149 votes. Then comes Johnny Mackorell,
All-State back, bringing Davidson the honor of placing a man in third place. Mackorell has a total of 123 votes
to his credit, leading South Carolina's brilliant Earl Clary by a 10-vote margin. Football players lose ground to the

First Four Places Are Given To Football Players in Flaming Five

Mackorell Holds Third Place With Morgan and Nine Other Davidson Men Entered in Contest

basketeers after the first four places, and Vergil Weathers is the first non-football man to place in the balloting. Following
Weathers are a number of the outstanding basketball men from the two Carolinas. Baseball, the national sport, placed only one
man in the first ten, he being Taft Wright of the Charlotte Hornets, who had to be content with tenth
position. There were many Davidson men who were entered in the contest, there being ten others besides Mackorell. Following is
a list of the Davidson candidates, named in order of the number of votes received: Johnny Mackorell, Jim Morgan, Charlie
Pearce, Charlie Harris, Courtney Ross, George Wingfield, Joe Morris, Coley Windham, Dick Cathey, Tom Whittley.

Davidson Cagers Meet Erskine’s Flying Fleet

Fresh Basketball Team Meets Two High School Foes

This week the Davidson varsity and freshman cageSchedules will come to a close as the Wildcats meet Erskine’s Flying Fleet
on Friday night, and the ‘Kittens end their victorious year with games against Crossnore High School on Friday night and
Burlington High on Saturday night. In the Flying Fleet, the varsity will meet a dangerous foe. The boys from Erskine
have a fast, aggressive combination. They have won three out of three in their last encounters. Their latest victory was
a close but decisive win over The Citadel. Coach Laird’s boys have had a bit of trouble getting started in
their late games, and it will take some fighting to overcome the boys from the Palmetto State. As a preliminary
to the varsity game on Friday, the yearlings will take on Crossnore High, of whose team not much is known.
On Saturday night, the ’Kittens are scheduled to meet another prep quint in Burlington High, and again meet an unknown
quantity. The Peabody-coached freshmen have been going at top speed this season and have not had much to worry about,
and there is not much doubt as to the final outcome of these last two contests.

Thompson Gets Ace

Freshmen Elon Ekes Out Victory Over Wildcat Quintet

’Cats Lead at Half But Closing Rally Wins for Elon

A spectacular spurt in the closing minutes of the game enabled the Christians of Elon College to eke out a
thrilling one-point victory over the Davidson five Thursday night, here 35 to 34. The Wildcats set the pace throughout the
contest until near the close when some deadly sharp-shooting by Tuck and Johnson brought victory to the Christians. Davidson, led
by the brilliant floorwork of Lafferty and the crack shooting of Captain Harris and Ross, were leading at the half
by 19 to 15, and at one time during the second half were 11 points ahead of their rivals. Captain
Harris of the Wildcats led the scoring for both teams with 16 points, while Ross tallied nine. Johnson collected 13
and Tuck 10 markers for Elon.

The line-up:
Dav. (34) Posi. Elon (35)
Ross (9) RF. Tuck (10)
Lafferty (3) LF. Askew (4)
Morgan (3) Center Johnson (13)
Holland (3) RG. Hughes (1)
Harris (16) LG. Cameron (5)

Substitutes — Davidson: Bernardo, Windham; Elon: Bevan and Smith (1).

In a preliminary game, the Davidson freshmen swamped Salisbury High School, 29 to 15. Cathey with 10 points and Quick
with eight set the scoring pace for the victors, while Graham tallied 10 points for Salisbury.

The line-up:
Dav. (29) Posi. Salisbury (15)
Porter (2) RF. White
Peabody (3) LF. Clark (2)
Cathey (10) Center Graham (10)
Peabody (2) RG. Reavis
Quick (8) LG. Jones

Substitutes — Davidson: Swindle (2), Barnes (2), Branton, Legrand, Henderson, Peters, and Robinson; Salisbury High: Laughridge (3).

Football Casualties

A few injuries sustained during football practice last week were not enough to prevent Coaches Newton and McEver from having
four full teams to work with Monday. B. L. Garrison, freshman backfield luminary, received a deep cut over the eye
and will probably be unable to don a uniform for several days. His injury, while painful, was not as serious
as was at first feared. “Wimpy” Ravenel is resting for a few days in order to give an old chest
injury time to heal. He is expected to be in uniform at an early date but will be unable to
scrimmage for quite a while. Jim Batte, utility man, has been on crutches for a few days, nursing a torn
leg ligament. He, too, is expected to be back at practice soon.

Davidson Quintet Defeated By Duke And Carolina Fives

Thompson of Duke and Weathers of Carolina Chalk Up High Scores

ROSS LEADS SCORE

Tar Heels Defeat Duke to Win State Championship

Climaxing the season with Big Five competition, the Wildcat five suffered successive defeats from Duke and Carolina on Monday and
Tuesday nights when they engaged these teams on their home courts. The Blue Devils won, 57-26, and the Tar Heels
scored 39 points to 25 for the 'Cats. In the first encounter, Jim Thompson of Duke held the limelight in
chalking up 18 points, while Ross, Wildcat center, was making 13. These two were high scorers for their respective teams.
Connie Mack, Jr., was also outstanding for the Blue Devils. Vergil Weathers, North Carolina forward, was the satellite in the
Tuesday game by basketing 14 of his team's points, all in the first half. Ross again upheld the honors for
the Davidsonians with 12 points added to his total. This Tar Heel quint later in the week defeated the Duke
five to win the state championship.

The line-ups follow:
Dav. (26) Posi. Duke (57)
Harris (C) RF. Kunkle (2)
Lafferty (4) LF. J. Thompson (18)
Ross (14) Center Mack (10)
Holland (2) RG. H. Thompson (11)
Windham (2) LG. Smith (6)

Dav. (25) Posi. Carolina (39)
Ross (12) RF. Aitken (6)
Lafferty (4) LF. Weathers (14)
Morgan (3) Center Glace (7)
Harris (2) RG. J. McCachren
Windham LG. D. McCachren (6)

Coaches Are Pleased With Spring Practices

Reds and Blacks Battle to Scoreless Tie in Practice Game

Last Saturday afternoon, the second game of Davidson's spring football practice was played by two spirited Wildcat elevens. George Wingfield
was captain of the Blacks and Johnny Mackorell led the Reds. Both teams showed a stubborn aggressiveness and the game
ended in a 0-0 tie. The two captains proved to be the stars of the contest by their spectacular running,
passing, and kicking. On an intercepted pass, Mackorell made a brilliant run of 35 yards, but this threat was repulsed
by the valiant Blacks. Wingfield twice led his team within the opposing 20-yard line but could not get the ball
over. Dick Johnson, Henry Cathey, and Johnny Pearce did outstanding work in the middle of the line, while Newton was
outstanding at end. Johnny Pearce and Paul Pittman showed up well in the halfback position. Two diminutive backs, Midget Verble
and Baxter Yarborough, centered quite a bit of attention by their hard blocking and tackling. These two candidates are fighting
for the fullback post left vacant by Eb Willson. The scrimmage proved very satisfactory to Coaches Newton and McEver. Newton
remarked that his tackle problem for next season was solved with Cathey, Johnson, Siewers, Armfield, Dickson, and Patterson on hand.
Three men were prevented from playing because of injuries.

Absence of Uniform Keeps Sub on Bench

Failure to don his complete uniform kept Robert Peters, a member of the Davidson freshman basketball team, from rendering services
in the Freshman-Lees-McRae game last Saturday night. Coach Bruce Peabody called on Peters to replace one of the regulars, but
he had to send in another substitute when, on doffing his sweat clothes, Peters discovered that his uniform was missing.

Thompson Joins Hole-in-One Club on Local Golf Course

Davidson seems to predominate the hole-in-one club. The most recent member of this club is “Tee” Thompson of the Senior
class who made his last Friday. It was on the third hole that it happened; using a No. 5 iron,
Thompson drove a distance of 145 yards. He was playing in a foursome composed of Mack Holland, Campbell Mein, and
Nabe Otey. Other members of this club are Jack Thompson, class of '32, who duplicated the feat of “Tee,” using
a mashie on the identical hole. He was playing in a foursome—Prof. H. E. Fulcher, Dr. H. M. Moffett, and
H. M. Moffett, Jr.—in September, 1930. Dr. C. K. Brown made an ace in July, 1930, on the difficult second
hole, playing in a foursome composed of Dr. H. M. Moffett, Bob Black, and H. M. Moffett, Jr. Former Coach
Monk Younger was next in the fall of 1930, on the ninth hole, 224 yards long. He was also playing
in a foursome with Tex Tilson, Sam Black, and Riggs McConnell, former Davidson grid players. Monk used a brassie.

Are You Good At Winning Love?

Have your tennis racket restrung at the Student Store. Price Range From $2.00 to $7.50. Prompt Service and Satisfaction Guaranteed.

Davidson Theatre

WEDNESDAY
“BROADWAY THROUGH A KEYHOLE”
CONSTANCE CUMMINGS—RUSS COLUMBO

FRIDAY
“NO MORE WOMEN”
EDMUND LOWE—VICTOR McLAGLEN

SATURDAY
“ADVICE TO THE LOVELORN”
LEE TRACY—SALLY BLANE

“BLOOD MONEY”
GEORGE BANCROFT—FRANCES DEE

“MANDALAY”
WARNER OLAND

TUESDAY
“EVER SINCE EVE”
GEORGE O’BRIEN—MARY BRIAN

SLEEP LATE and DINE WITH US

LITTLE PEPE SANDWICH SHOP

BUY A NEW SHEAFFER PEN
Your Name Imprinted in Gold FREE!

COLLEGE PHARMACY
Davidson’s “Service Drug Store”

NAME IN GOLD ON YOUR OWN PEN FOR 25¢
