THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 14, 1934

LARGE AUDIENCES HEAR BAND PLAY

Pfohl’s Concert Band Opens Season at Davidson and Lenoir

UNIFORMS DESIRED

Lingle Praises Band, Encourages Free Will Offering

The Davidson Concert Band opened its first season with a concert Thursday night in Chambers Auditorium and a similar concert
Friday at Lenoir High School. The concert at Steele Creek, originally scheduled for last Monday night, was postponed a week.
Both concerts drew large audiences from Davidson alumni and music lovers of nearby cities who called for numerous encores.

“We are proud of our band and we are proud of the other musical organizations at Davidson,” said Dr. Walter
Lingle, in a talk at intermission of the Thursday night concert. He stated that the most significant development at Davidson
this year was in the musical line under the direction of Mr. Pfohl, and announced that Mr. Pfohl would be
able to give all his time to our music department next semester. Dr. Lingle reminded the audience that music, besides
being uplifting and idealistic, was also expensive because of the necessary equipment, and concluded his talk with an appeal to
the audience to make a liberal free will offering, so that the band might purchase uniforms.

At Lenoir, the members of the band were received by the homes of the city as the guests of the
Lenoir Band, J.C. Harper, alumnus of Davidson, conductor. The Lenoir Band will be the guest of the Davidson Band at
its concert here Thursday, March 15.

Harris Bradley, first chair clarinetist of the band and assistant to Pfohl in his work, was presented the baton for
two numbers at Lenoir. They were “Men of Ohio,” by Fillmore, and Alford’s march, “Vanished Army.”

The program rendered at both concerts is as follows:
1. Olivadoti
2. Overture to Stradella - Flotow
3. Cornet Solo—“Grand Russian Fantasia” - A. Moreland Cunningham
4. Chant—“Nobody Knows the Trouble I’ve Seen” - White
5. The Black Man - Sousa

INTERMISSION

6. Selections from H. M. S. Pinafore - Sullivan
7. Vocal Solo—Sylvia - Oley Speaks, David McLain
8. Romance - Svendson
9. The Fencing Master - James C. Harper
10. “Atlantis Suite” - Safranek

Trees Planted By Local Boy Scouts

Davidson Troop Completes Reforestation Project

On Monday and Tuesday afternoons, Davidson Troop No. 1 of the Boy Scouts of America planted 1500 loblolly pines on
a tract of land just off the fifth hole of the golf course. This project was carried out by 12
boys of the Scout troop under the direction of Edwin S. Hodge, scoutmaster of the troop.

The tract of land on which the reforestation was done is a piece of land which was lumbered several years
ago and since then has been washing badly. This project will not only prevent the land from washing, but it
will also beautify it. The seedlings used in this work were furnished by the State Conservation Commission and paid for
by the college. This project was done not only to beautify the land but also to give the scout troop
some practical experience in reforestation. The work was suggested by Rufus Page, former scoutmaster of the troop and student at
the college.

Hodge announced that in the campaign recently conducted by the troop to collect old clothes and furniture, 324 pieces were
collected. These were collected not only in the college, but also in the community. This campaign was made following President
Roosevelt's suggestion to the Scouts of America that they collect old clothes and furniture as a national “Good Turn.” The
value of these articles was approximately $30; they will be turned over to the local Red Cross for distribution.

NOT GUILTY

She—“I suppose you’ve been in the Navy so long that you're accustomed to sea legs.”
He—“Lady, I wasn’t even looking!”

LENOIR HIGH SCHOOL BAND

The Lenoir High School Band, which will give a concert here at 8 o’clock tomorrow night, is composed of 68
pieces under the direction of J. C. Harper, an alumnus of Davidson. This band is well known throughout the state
and contains many able soloists.

Frats Engage In Varying Activities

Redecoration and Social Events Among Features of Week

PI KAPPA ALPHA

Steadson Williams, noted interior decorator, has just finished redecorating the Beta Chapter of Pi Kappa Alpha in Jacobean period.A house-warming
will be held on March 28th. Members attended the wedding of Miss Dorothea Fredrickson and Clarence Rozzelle last Sunday afternoon
at 5 o’clock at the Fredrickson home.

SIGMA ALPHA EPSILON
An open meeting was held on March 9th at the chapter house to celebrate the founding of Sigma Alpha Epsilon.
This marked the seventy-eighth anniversary of its founding. Members of the faculty who attended were: Drs. J. W. MacConnell, Scott
Lyon, J. M. Douglas, J. W. Douglas; Professors Archibald Currie, W. W. Wood, E. J. Erwin, and Grier Martin, Courtney
MacConnell, Samuel Wiley.

BETA THETA PI
Dr. and Mrs. W. L. Lingle entertained the members of the Beta Theta Pi Chapter following the concert given by
the Davidson College Concert Band on March 8th. A buffet supper was served. Dr. Lingle is the senior chapter member
on the faculty.

PHI DELTA THETA
The North Carolina Gamma Chapter of Phi Delta Theta announces the initiation of John Newton from Gainesville, Ga., and Lloyd
Feuchtenberger from Bluefield, W. Va. The chapter held an election of officers at their last meeting. Duke Glasgow was elected
president; Carlton Chapman was elected secretary, and John Taylor was elected treasurer.

SIGMA PHI EPSILON
The S. P. E. house is being renovated and repainted. While this is being done, they have moved temporarily into
the vacant A. O. house.

PI KAPPA PHI
The Beta Chapter of Pi Kappa Phi at Presbyterian College in Clinton, S.C., is going to give three dances on
Friday and Saturday. Jack Williams, Boggs Corbin, Everett Otey, and Bradford McLean will represent the Epsilon Chapter from Davidson College.

The federal public works board recently granted $88,100 to the University of Minnesota for the purpose of constructing another unit
to its athletic buildings.

Dr. Gammon Speaks On Vesper Program
Dr. Edgar Gammon of the Myers Park Presbyterian Church in Charlotte was the speaker for vespers Sunday night, March 11.
Joseph E. Dill, of the Senior class, was in charge of the program. After the singing of a hymn, the
audience was led in prayer by Ben Rose and Harvey Glass. The prayers were followed by the scripture reading, and
a violin solo by Bill Robinson. Dr. Gammon chose as his topic, “What Lack I Yet?” which had to do
with the value of a true religion and the benefits that could be received from it in after life.

“Young men and women should learn to know about Christ while they are still young,” said Dr. Gammon. An example
of this fact was brought out in the story of the rich young ruler’s meeting with Christ. Despite wealth, personality,
high morals, honesty, and even a slight religion, this young man lacked the true religion of Christ, and he greatly
desired it. However, when he was told to give up his riches and follow, he could not bring himself to
do it, and thereby passed out of the story completely. He lost by this the supreme opportunity of his life.
“In the light of eternity, he lost everything,” said Dr. Gammon. Following the singing of a hymn, the speaker dismissed
the assemblage with the benediction.

STATIONERY
CALLING CARDS
FRATERNITY PAPERS
Printing of all Types at Reasonable Rates
PROGRAMS
See BILL JOHNSON
203 Watts @ Garland Court
Standard Printing Company
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

I personally express my appreciation of your effort toward keeping Granger fresh till used,” writes Mr. H. S. Gray of
Wilmington, Del., locomotive engineer on the Pennsylvania Railroad. He says: “Having opened the package it can be opened and closed
repeatedly, without excessive fraying of the edges, assuring that the tobacco can be kept free from moisture and dust.

“I have heard several other locomotive engineers comment very favorably on the new wrapper. I personally express my appreciation of
your effort toward keeping Granger fresh till used.”

All set! Engineer Gray at the throttle of one of the big “Class M1” engines of the P. R. R.

The pipe tobacco that’s MILD
The pipe tobacco that’s COOL
© 1934, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.
