THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 31, 1934

ORGANIST WILL OPEN CONCERT SERIES NOV. 6

Palmer Christian Of Michigan University Will Present Recital Of Classical Selections

IS OUTSTANDING ARTIST

Rising Composer Has Found Favor Wherever Heard

Palmer Christian, known throughout the United States and Canada as one of the outstanding contemporary concert organists, will present the
opening concert of the Davidson series on November 6. The Detroit News stated that, “Palmer Christian is an artist of
sensitive nature, able to discern the composer's most fragile and fugitive thoughts and display the same, crystal clear, to his
audience.” After his last Chicago recital, the Chicago Herald and Examiner found that, “he proved that the organist may exercise
his imagination within the limits of his instrument and achieve expressions of beauty that are characteristic and that cannot be
duplicated by either the piano or the orchestra.”

Mr. Christian has made appearances with the Chicago, Detroit, Rochester, and New York Symphonies, New York Philharmonic Society, and Philadelphia
Orchestra. At present, he holds the position of University Organist and is head of the Organ Department at the University
of Michigan, at Ann Arbor, where he was appointed a few years ago for the express purpose of playing an
annual series of recitals.

His Davidson program will be as follows:
- Psalm XIX - Marcello
“The Heavens declare the glory of God and the firmament showeth His handiwork.”
- Minuet et Gigue en rondeau - Rameau
- Largo in F (Concerto Grosso No. 12) - Handel
- Fantasie and Fugue in C minor - Bach
- Aftonfrid (Evening Peace) - Hagg
- The Fountain - DeLamarter
- Choral in A minor - Franck
- Prelude in F - Saint-Saens
- Minuet-Scherzo - Jongen
- “O Zion” (Spiritual) - Miller
- Rhapsody - Miller

High Quality Work Required By F.E.R.A. Officials

Officials Of Relief Administration Stress Scholarship Requirement

Students who have FERA work, and who hope to remain on the payrolls, will have to step lively from now
on. The school has been especially successful in securing work on various projects for the great number of applicants for
this aid. In the past two weeks, an additional number of students have received assignments, swelling the total from the
original maximum of seventy-three to a number a bit past a hundred. As Davidson College is allowed only one thousand
ninety-five dollars each month, every student may not earn fifteen dollars, which is the supposed amount, when over seventy-three are
employed.

The following quotation is taken from a letter of the Administration of the Federal Emergency Relief Administration dated July 3,
1934: “The students (given FERA aid) shall be of good character, and judged by the usual methods of determining ability
employed by the particular college, shall possess such ability as to give assurance that they will do HIGH GRADE WORK
in college.”

In view of this statement, and of the fact that some of the FERA men here are failing their work,
the local committee, at a recent meeting, made the following rulings:
1. A student making a failing grade (E or F is considered failing in this school) is warned that a
continuance of this will bring limitation to the number of hours he is allowed to work.
2. A student making a failing grade in more than two subjects is hereby limited to twelve hours per week,
and the restriction has been removed.
3. A student making failing grades in more than two subjects is hereby limited to six hours per week, and
unless improvement is shown in scholastic work, the aid will be removed entirely.

Good taste. The world’s finest tobaccos are used in Luckies—the “Cream of the Crop”—only the clean center leaves—for the clean
center leaves are the mildest leaves—they cost more—they taste better. “It’s toasted” Your throat protection—against irritation—against cough.

Pills Brothers Receive Many Jeers And Cheers

“Bow, wow, wow!” with fiery voices wailing to the four winds, once more brings you the scintillating melodies of the
famous Pills Brothers, direct from the “fire escape” of Davidson's Hotel Georgia, just twenty miles northeast of Charlotte, in the
seat of knowledge.

Although probably not recognizable by the above lines, it is, nevertheless, the Pills Brothers playing at a nine months engagement
in Georgia dormitory to the loudly expressed discomfort of some and the enjoyment of others who are more appreciative of
“good harmony.” The trio is in reality a second edition of the Pills Brothers, because of the fact that Dave
McLain and Billy Northen, two of the three original members, were unable to participate this year. With these two men
dropped from the original roll, it remained for Geddie Monroe to build up the tiny musical club to its former
calibre. With the help of two new additions, “Wimpy” Ravenel and P. D. Guerrant, he now has a club almost
as good as the original Pills Brothers.

Evidently, the brothers are well satisfied with their brand of music, since they broadcast around 11 o'clock in order that
the radio fans of the Pills Brothers, and others, may be given a chance to compare and recognize their superior
harmony. Needless to say, however, every music organization has in its audience “non-Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the
original meaning and punctuation:

---

"Appreciatives," who seize every opportunity which will allow them to demoralize the cause of their discomfort. Of course, the Pills
Brothers are often subjected to such an audience. Not infrequently gun-shots, buckets of water, and loud imprecations are aimed in
the general direction of Georgia, but the Pills Brothers have proven themselves versatile artists so far.

ALUMNI: in Davidson for Homecoming.
Name
Address
HOMECOMING REGISTRATION BLANK
Please fill in this blank if you are planning to be in Davidson, N.C., and the necessary reservations will be
made.
Number of Persons for Luncheon ................
Fill in and send to ALUMNI SECRETARY, DAVIDSON, N.C.
Send it to Alumni Secretary, Glassen.

Among the GREEKS

Beta Theta Pi: The Phi Alpha Chapter initiated two men last Thursday, October 25. They were F.A. Cathey, a member
of the sophomore class from Gastonia, and G.T. Tipton, a member of the junior class from Tennessee. A "feed" was
given Sunday night at which most of the brothers were present.

Kappa Alpha: The Sigma Chapter had an initiation last Thursday night, at which time G.L. Watt, George Corvan, and "Rolk"
"Sandy" Moffett from Charlotte were admitted into the chapter. Last Sunday night many of the members of the fraternity participated
in a delightful "feed."

Kappa Sigma: A "feed" was enjoyed by approximately twenty members of the Delta Chapter last Sunday, October 25th.

Pi Kappa Phi: The Epsilon Chapter recently received a letter from the Pi Kappa Phi Committee on Scholarship saying that
Brother Sam Hines had been chosen as one of the scholars for 1934. A reception was given for Dr. Blanton
Belk before he left Davidson.

Phi Gamma Delta: Many members of the Delta Chapter enjoyed a "feed" Sunday night. The brothers are looking forward to
a banquet which will be given at Homecoming and at which time a number of alumni are expected.

Kappa Phi Delta Theta: The Gamma Chapter enjoyed seeing Howard McPhail from Jacksonville, Florida, over the last weekend. A few
visitors were present at the "feed" Sunday night.

Pi Kappa Alpha: The Beta Chapter pledged Ogburn Spoon from Greensboro during the past week.

N.C. State Discontinues Use of Honor System

At a recent meeting of the Student Council of North Carolina State College, it was decided to abolish the honor
system in the classroom. The faculty voted in favor of this movement, and with the vote of the faculty, the
honor system was officially abolished from State College classrooms. The Honor System was established at State College in 1921, at
the same time that Student Government was inaugurated there. The plan of Student Government and the Honor System plan were
drawn up at that time by a joint group of faculty members and students. This Honor System was in effect
until last Spring, at which time a system of faculty supervision and student proctors was inaugurated. This movement was only
an experiment, but it was found to work so well that with the abolishing of the Honor System, many of
the features of this plan have been incorporated into the new system. Under the new plan, student proctors will be
elected and professors will have direct supervision over examinations and will be present when the examinations are given. The professor
shall handle, at his own discretion, cases of dishonesty that he observes. This system, however, is not permanent, as the
student body will be given a chance to express its opinion of the new system at the end of the
first term.

Mrs. Claude Ives and children are guests of Mrs. Ives’ parents in Tryon, N.C.

CARS FOR RENT
Gulf Gas and Oil
M.P. HENDERSON

P.H. HANES KNITTING COMPANY
KEEP THIS SHIRT!

The president of the group went up Saturday and remained throughout the rally. The theme of the meeting was: "What
would Jesus do in relation to God, in relation to others, and in relation to ourselves." John McMullen spoke on
one of the subjects Saturday. On Sunday afternoon, Don Bailey made the final talk of the rally. Don also helped
in the meeting.

Prof. and Mrs. Oscar Thies and Mr. and Mrs. O.J. Thies of Charlotte took a trip to the mountains this
past weekend.

WINSTON-SALEM

Kennedy’s Shoe Shop
Skilled Workmanship at Reasonable Prices
"The best possible Material"

DEPUTATIONS

Saturday and Sunday, October 27 and 28, the young people of Concord Presbytery held a rally at the First Presbyterian
Church of Statesville. John McMullen, who is president of the group, went up Saturday and remained throughout the rally.

Local French Chapter Initiates Prepare Play

The initiates of Le Cercle Francais are at present engaged in the preparation of a play to be given on
the occasion of their initiation into the circle. The initiation will take place at the first meeting of the season,
which will be held during the second week of next month.

October 23

The Tuesday Club met with Mrs. Eleath Whittle.
