THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 21, 1934

Gwynn Leads Group Discussion On The Influence Of Fascism

Members Of Student Volunteer Group Discuss World Christianity Problems

The second in a series of four discussion groups under the direction of Dr. P. H. Gwynn, sponsored by the
Student Volunteer Group, on the general subject of “World Forces Hindering Christianity” was held last Sunday afternoon in the Social
Center at 4:00 P.M. The subject under discussion last Sunday was “The Influence of Fascism on Christianity.” Dr. Gwynn opened
the discussion with a talk on Fascism. He said that the movement is now in a state of development. For
that reason, it is more difficult to study than Communism, which adheres to strict principles as laid down by Karl
Marx.

Fascism comes into power in a country when there is a need for a great leader and where national morale
is low. Italy was an object of scorn among the nations until she adopted Mussolini as her leader. People naturally
follow such a man as a redeemer, as indeed he is. Germany also was oppressed by the Treaty of Versailles
and looked upon as an enemy by the whole world, who held them solely responsible for the World War. A
reaction was imperative, and Hitler rose to the occasion.

Mrs. T. W. Lingle told of her personal experience with Fascism in Germany. She said that everyone in Germany is
open and enthusiastic in praise of Hitler, and that during her stay there she did not hear a word of
criticism against the Fascist regime.

A free open discussion followed these talks, with many students asking questions and voicing their opinions. The group came to
the final conclusion that while Fascism does much to enhance national prestige, it constitutes a dangerous menace to world peace.

This discussion group will not meet next Sunday afternoon due to an engagement of Dr. Gwynn’s in Charlotte. The meetings
will be resumed on the next two Sundays. The subjects will be “The Emphasis of Materialistic Values as Against More
Spiritual Values” and “General Moral Laxness in the World Today.”

Gullies Prove To Be Drawing Card

Davidson's only Sunday afternoon attraction for college students presents itself in the form of “The Gullies,” located one and a
half miles northeast of the College. “The Gullies,” caused by erosion approximately a century ago, consist of a numberless group
of cuts, thirty to forty feet in depth, terminating in a low, broad, open valley of sand. A pine grove
surrounds a major portion of these chasms, but they were exterminated from the gullies by winter rains.

This Sunday amusement center is composed of a formation of loose, smooth surfaces of clay that gradually slope into a
rounded bottom of sand which begins other ascensions. The smooth clay surface affords ample opportunity for sliding and climbing, frequently
participated in by athletically-clad students. “The Gullies” have proven so popular as a Sunday evening attraction that approximately 50 percent
of the Davidson College Student Body have visited them.

Two Are Made Honorary Members

(Continued from Page 1, Column 6)

and was appointed by the governor as a member of the State Judicial Council. He was elected to the House
of Representatives from the seventh district in 1928 and has served as a member of that body ever since. His
son, J. B. Davidson Jr., graduated with high honors several years ago, being president of the Student Body his senior
year. Another son, D. Clark, is now enrolled as a student in the college.

Although not himself an alumnus, Major Alfred Lee Bulwinkle has long proven himself a devoted and loyal friend of Davidson
and has contributed much to the support and upbuilding of that institution. Major Bulwinkle obtained his training in law under
the tuition of a private instructor at the University of North Carolina and began his practice in law in Gastonia
during the earlier part of the century. He continued private practice as the senior member of the law firm of
Bulwinkle and Dolley until 1913, when he became Prosecuting Attorney for the Municipal Court of the City of Gastonia. He
served in this capacity for three years.

Nominated for senator of the General Assembly by the Democratic Party in 1916, he withdrew on account of military service.
Since 1909 he had been connected with the First Infantry, Ninth District, North Carolina National Guard. During the Mexican border
troubles of ’16-’17, he served with that unit as Captain of a company of Gastonia militia. With the outbreak of
the World War, he enlisted. He commanded the Second Battery of 113th Field Artillery holding the rank of major. Since
the war, he has been a member of the Sixty-seventh, Sixty-eighth, Sixty-ninth, Seventieth, Seventy-second, and Seventy-third Congresses.

Y. M. C. A. Services Well Attended

(Continued from Page 1, Column 5)

resented for the second time on the program, the great composer, J. S. Bach. Its sympathetic melody and expressive rendition
made it outstanding. The last two numbers were choruses by the glee club. The first of these, “Ye Watchers and
Ye Holy Ones,” dates back to the seventeenth century and is in chant form. The latter, Mozart's Gloria, from his
Twelfth Mass, is known wherever high-class sacred music is sung. Its brilliance and praise were well interpreted by the glee
club. Piano and organ accompaniments were used with these choral selections.

Dr. Moffett, pastor of the local Presbyterian church, pronounced the benediction, after which the glee club sang the Dresden Amens.

Program

(Continued from Page 1, Column 2)

Wilbur Edwards, Bill Link, Hervie Ross, first violins; Bill Robinson, Richard Vowles, second violins; Buddy Robinson, Warren Babcock, cello; Howard
King, bass; Dick Mattocks, viola; Don Pfohl, flute; J. J. Martin, bassoon; Bradley Harris, clarinets; Moreland Cunningham, Bob Leonard, cornets;
Hubert Morris, Jim Huntington, Julian Helms, horns; Frank Tucker, trombone, and sousaphone.

Musicians Give Third

Wildcats Show Power And Deception

(Continued from Page 4, Column 6)

an off-tackle play behind the perfect blocking of Corbin and Hutchins for 40 yards. After two line thrusts yielded a
first down, Mackorell went over from the1-yard line to score within two minutes after the opening kickoff. Pittman went in
to kick and dropped the ball neatly between the posts to make the score 7-0. After an exchange of punts,
the Wildcats started another drive which ended when Wingfield ran around the end for 25 yards and fumbled, V. M.
I. recovering. Urick quick-kicked over Wingfield’s head and the ball was downed on Davidson’s 24-yard line. A 15-yard penalty and
a 6-yard loss put Mackorell back in his end zone to kick. He got away a short punt to the
37-yard line. V. M. I. took prompt advantage of their scoring opportunity. With three successive first downs, they drove to
the 1-yard line. Urick hurdled the center of the line for the Cadets’ first score. His placement for the extra
point was blocked.

Again there was an exchange of punts, giving Davidson the ball in mid-field. A perfectly executed lateral from Wingfield to
Mackorell netted 33 yards. After an ineffectual try at the line, Mackorell heaved a long pass to Morgan in the
end zone for the second tally. Pittman’s try for conversion went wide. As soon as they regained possession of the
ball, the Wildcats started another drive which resulted in a score when Mackorell threw a pass to Windham, who ran
the remaining distance for a touchdown. Pittman kicked the point and the half ended a few minutes later with the
score 20-6.

Twice during the third period, Davidson went deep into enemy territory but was prevented from scoring when Clark intercepted two
passes. Then taking the ball on their own 35-yard line, the Cadets made two first downs and ended up with
a spectacular forward lateral pass, McMillin to Kane to Clark, which resulted in their second touchdown. Urick converted.

The final score came in the fourth period when Morgan blocked and recovered McMillin’s punt on the V. M. I.
40-yard line. Two plays later, Wingfield went around the end for 27 yards. Mackorell got six off tackle, and Wingfield
took the ball over from the 9-yard stripe. Pittman again converted.

For the rest of the game, the Cadets tried desperately to score. They advanced the ball once to the Davidson
11-yard line, where they lost it on downs. After that, they took to the air but were unsuccessful. V. M.
I. put up a game fight against a superior team. They managed to make nine first downs to the ‘Cats’
ten, but they gained only about half as much yardage from scrimmage.

Lineups:
V. M. I. (13) Pos Davidson (27)
Kane LE Morgan
Coleman LT Siewers
Burgess LG Hand
Childress Center Burns
Farley RG R. Johnson
Lowe RT Six
Johnston RE Windham
McMillin QB Mackorell
Penn LH Wingfield
Watkins RH Hutchins
Urick FB Corbin

V. M. I. 0 6 7 0—13
Davidson 7 13 0 7—27

Scoring touchdowns: V. M. I. Urick, Clark. Point after touchdown: Urick. Scoring touchdowns, Davidson: Mackorell, Morgan, Windham, Wingfield. Points after
touchdown: Pittman (3).

Substitutions—V. M. I.: end, Hancock; tackle, Hightower; guards, Conte, Ogglesby; center, Zimmerman; back, Clark. Davidson: ends, John Lee, Dick Cathey;
tackle, Henry Cathey; guards, Fort, Potter; center, J. B. Lee; backs, Pittman, Yarborough.

Officials: Referee, Carrington (Virginia); umpire, Foster (Hampden-Sydney); headlinesman, Cuddy (Virginia); field judge, Ison (North Carolina).

Mrs. Mattie Burwell Murphy has returned after a visit with friends in High Point. Mrs. Josephine Worth, who has been
a guest of Mrs. L. R. Smith, has returned to her home in Linden, N. C.

CHARLOTTE MORE WEEKS TILL XMAS Save Money By Eating At LITTLE PEP

DAVIDSON

Anna received a letter from Isabella, inviting her to visit General Hill and herself in Lexington. Prominent Davidson Founder Is
Pioneer (Continued from Page 1, Column 3) Davidson, to J. P. Irwin, a prominent young businessman from Alabama. The couple
lived in Charlotte, where they acquired considerable property and participated actively in the affairs of that section. Delighted at this
opportunity to see her sister again, Anna made careful preparations for her trip to Lexington. A few days after her
arrival, her host gave a reception for her and it was on this occasion that she met and fell in
love with General “Stonewall” Jackson, who was then a Major.

After the marriage of Isabelle and Harriet, Anna, the third daughter, took her place as principal helper in the family.
Although she and Eugenia made their social debut together, they were not as congenial as Anna and Isabelle. She, nevertheless,
adored Eugenia, her younger sister, who was the most beautiful of them all. Anna, on Eugenia’s marriage to Mr. Rufus
Barringer, later a General in the Confederate army, took great pride in preparing her sister for her bridal ceremony. After
her famous husband's death, Mrs. Jackson made her home in Charlotte for the remainder of her life.

The marriage of Anna left only two of the Morrison daughters, Susan, the musician of the family, and Laura, who
was very gifted in painting. However, love soon attracted both, and Susan was married to Alphonse Avery of Morganton, who
afterwards distinguished himself as a Major and a Judge of the Supreme Court. After Eugenia’s marriage, Dr. Morrison resigned the
presidency of Davidson College and moved to a farm in Lincoln County. It was while here that

UNITED in spirit and aim
Never failing in loyalty to Christ
Initiative in Biblical research
Onward pressing to universal brotherhood
Neglecting never to follow the Light.
Spiritually-minded; Scripturally-living
Endeavoring to uphold His commands
Ministering for the Master
In scholarship not inexpert
Nearness to truthful interpretation
Always seeking spiritual progress
Reaching out in service
Yearning to bring all to Him!

UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY RICHMOND, VA.

Davidson Theatre

THURSDAY AND FRIDAY, NOV. 22 AND 23
HAPPINESS AHEAD
WITH DICK POWELL, JOSEPHINE HUTCHINSON, JOHN HALLIDAY, FRANK McHUGH, AND ALLEN JENKINS

SATURDAY, NOV. 24
WAGON WHEELS
WITH RANDOLPH SCOTT, GAIL PATRICK, MONTE BLUE, RAYMOND HATTON

MONDAY, NOV. 26
GENTLEMEN ARE BORN
WITH FRANCHOT TONE, MARGARET LINDSEY, JEAN MUIR, AND ANN DVORAK

TUESDAY AND WEDNESDAY, NOV. 27 AND 28
TRANSATLANTIC MERRY-GO-ROUND
WITH JACK BENNY, NANCY CARROLL, GENE RAYMOND, AND THE BOSWELL SISTERS

— you might say there are few things that cost so little and give so much
