THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 16, 1934

DAVIDSON TRACK TEAM WINS THIRD PLACE AT CHAPEL HILL

In The Field of Sports

SPORTS ROLL OF HONOR APPEARS IN THIS ISSUE

By MAIMORY BROWN

Earle Frazier truly brought his first year of varsity track competition to a climax in a blaze of glory by
chalking up to his name two record runs in the state meet at Chapel Hill Saturday. He, along with Miller
Cochrane, brought to Davidson three of the nine state records that fell during the course of this contest. Frazier was
clocked in the mile event at 4:22, which is only 11 seconds above the world mark for this race. Looks
as if Davidson will have a bright Olympic prospect for 1936 in the person of this ace sophomore distance runner.

Under the careful tutelage of Captain Pritchett, genial Wildcat athletic director, this trackster’s progress has been most unusual, as can
be seen by the constant way in which he clipped time off the school record in every race he ran
during the season just culminated, and we have profound confidence in the ability of Coach Pritchett and his assistants, feeling
sure that if the potentialities are there, which certainly seems to be the case, they will be used to make
this man one of the best distance coursers in the nation. The way in which Earle handled McRae, Tar Heel
star, and Byrd, Blue Devil champion, Saturday afternoon, proved that real competition agrees with him ideally. It is always more
to beat a man who is reputedly superior to yourself, and that is exactly what this favorite of Felix has
done. His two-mile time established in this state affair is one which should stand for several seasons. Five seconds is
no mean slice to cut from a record in any state, and particularly in North Carolina where track teams have
always been above par and the records are all good. The fact that Frazier was able to travel this course
in such excellent time after having led a fast field in the one-mile event is all but miraculous.

Miller Cochrane also deserves plenty of credit for his excellent putting of the iron ball at the Tar Heel camp.
At the first of the season discus throwing was apparently this man’s best event, but when it became evident that
N. C. State’s Primo Canera, Milan Zori, couldn’t hold his distance down to less than 150 feet in the steel
plate event, the Wildcat captain decided to set things on fire with the shot; and that he has done. The
graduation of this man in June will leave an unusually large gap in the Wildcat squad; one for which there
are no highly prospective fillers at present.

The Wildcat nine seemed to be entirely forsaken by Dame Fortune during its season’s final campaign with Wake Forest last
Friday and Saturday. The first game was dropped in the eighth stanza when the Deacons staged a three-run rally, and
the second saw the Baptists trail until the final inning, when they garnered enough scores to win from the ’Cats,
11-10. These encounters brought to a close what might be termed a very disastrous season, but the pitching of the
Davidson outfit was sadly weak, and the loss of Captain “Shrimp” Morris proved to be a real setback. Those of
us who remember “Shrimp” and the wonderful spirit he displayed, not only on the athletic field but in all phases
of school life, can readily understand why he would have meant a great deal toward the success of the baseball
team this year. An attitude like his would give pep to any aggregation.

All of the sports have ended their schedules, and it looks as if Felix and I will have to sweep
the sidewalk, roll up the awning, and lock the safe until next fall when we shall be back with four
well-manicured claws and the (Continued on page 6)

Ball Season Ends With Two Losses To Wake Deacons

Wake Forest’s Demon Deacons Manage to Gain Victories, 5-3 and 11-10

’CATS WIN 3 OF 16

Mackorell, Morgan and W. Burns Lead Batting Averages

Davidson brought a somewhat hectic baseball season to a close last week, losing to the Wake Forest Demon Deacons on
Friday and Saturday. The scores in both games were close, but the Deacons managed to eke out a victory in
the first game, 5 to 3, and in the second, 11 to 10. Davidson dropped a game earlier in the
week to N. C. State, 22 to 10.

In the first Wake Forest game, Davidson remained in the lead until the seventh inning behind the masterful pitching of
Julian West. West, however, was removed from the game due to a shoulder injury, and the Deacons piled up three
runs in the last two innings to take the contest. The second game was also taken from the Wildcats in
the last inning when Wake Forest used three hits and two free passes to forge ahead.

Davidson has played sixteen college games this season and has been victorious in but three. Two of these games were
taken from Duke and the other from State. Other practice games were played with teams from neighboring communities. The Wildcats
opened the season with Michigan State on March 26, losing to the Spartans, 16 to 6. Since then they have
played Carolina three games, State four, Duke four, and Wake Forest four. A successful season was predicted for Davidson because
of the return of many players from last year’s championship team, but the Wildcats have fallen far short of living
up to these expectations. The team was dealt (Continued on page 6)

Centennial Nine Closes Season After Few Wins

Bringing a none too successful freshman athletic year to a finish, the yearling baseball club concluded its season with a
record of four wins against ten losses. The baseball season was not entirely without its rewards, however, for several promising
stars were uncovered. Quick, shortstop, and Dickson, catcher, both as hitters and fielders, have done well, and two pitchers, “Lefty”
Porter and Jack Somerville, may make Coach “Red” Laird’s burden lighter when he goes about building next year’s varsity baseball
squad. Other players deserving mention are Corbin, Gracey, Howard, and Arrowood.

Quick leads off in the list of batting averages with an average of .452, and is followed by Corbin with
.373, Dickson with .350, and Howard and Arrowood with averages of .295 and .294, respectively. Shemwell, bringing in 16 runs,
scored most frequently, and Dickson, gathering 20 hits, led the team in the hit column. The Kittens’ batting average as
a whole is .211, which stands up favorably compared to their fielding performances. Too frequent errors marked their games all
season and prevented the pitchers from making better records.

Porter was the master in the hurling department, pitching half of the team’s four victories. His greatest feat was that
of allowing Belmont Abbey only three hits, a complete shutout after the third inning. Gracey pitched the Wildkittens to another
victory over Belmont Abbey, and Somerville, pitching a win over Cornelius High, turned in other performances which merited more than
the support given him in the field.

Teams defeated by the freshman nine are Belmont Abbey (twice), Newton High School and Cornelius High School. Individual batting averages
for the team are:

Players R. H. Av.
Quick 12 14 .452
Corbin 6 15 .373
Dickson 10 20 .350
Howard 8 13 .295
Arrowood 8 15 .294
Armfield 10 14 .262
Porter 3 9 .204
Shemwell 16 11 .200
Parker 0 2 .121
Gracey 0 3 .111
Somerville 1 1 .099
Knot 0 0 .000

Johnny Mackorell
Charlie Rives
Eb Willson
Joe Wingfield
Dewey Hutchins
Courtney Ross
Charlie Harris
Mack Holland
Ras Evans
John Lee
Jack Jenkins
Jim Morgan
Frank Mock
Julian West
Jimmy Halverstadt
Johnny Lafferty
Charlie Fort

DAVIDSON’S WILDEST CATS HONOR ROLL

Basketball
Basketball
Baseball
Tennis
Tennis
Wrestling

Davidsonian’s Athletic Honor Roll Selected For 1933-34

Mackorell, Frazier and Morgan Most Outstanding Members on List

Looking back over the 1933-34 athletic year at Davidson, certain Wildcat representatives stand out in our minds as having done
special service toward the betterment of various team records during the play of their schedules. These men have been placed
on “The Davidsonian’s” roll of honor for sports, and their names appear in the box above this column.

Last season’s gridiron record was one of the best in many years at Davidson, and during the campaign of this
football aggregation many stars were revealed, but five men, in our opinion, showed the most consistently good work for the
entire season. Such stalwarts as Percy McElrath, Julian West, “Tubby” Hand, A. J. Potter, Jim Morgan, and Brewster Grant deserve
mention for their service, but those chosen for particular honor are: Johnny Mackorell, unanimous choice for the mythical all-state teams,
and mentioned for a backfield position on the all-American eleven; Charlie Rives, captain of the ’33 outfit and a member
of some all-state selections; “Schnozz” Willson, winner of the Tim Pharr blocker’s medal; Joe Wingfield, leather-lugger superb, and alternate captain
of the ’34 team, and Dewey Hutchins, also alternate-captain of next fall’s squad.

Courtney Ross leads the basketball list by virtue of his high scoring hon- Charlie Harris wins a position for his
excellentPerformance all season on the hardwood, and Mack Holland, winner of the team spirit trophy, gets the other selection from
Davidson's Wildcat five. Jim Morgan showed excellent form at times during the cage season, as well as John Lafferty and
Coley Windham. Earle takes the forefront among the track stars, with a season’s record filled with too many unusual performances
to mention; Miller Cochrane, captain of the ’Cat tracksters, takes second place in this sport, with John Lee, Ras Evans,
and Fred McPhail occupying the other berths. The baseball aggregation contributes Jack Jenkins, sophomore pitcher; Frank Mock, captain; Jim Morgan,
star outfielder, earning his third letter of the school year in this sport, and Julian West, moundsman. Fred Smyre, Teal
Rogers, Woody Burns, and Johnny Mackorell are in line for mention as outstanding members of this year's nine.

In the minor sports, Jimmy Halverstadt looms brightest with the state singles tennis title to his credit. Johnny Lafferty, who
went to the doubles finals with the Davidson No. 1 racquet-wielder in the state tourney, also gets a position on
the roll. Charlie Frazier is the lone wrestler who garnered a place among the honored. He captained the matmen last
season and has been chosen for the same position for next winter.

Freshmen at Washington University hold their own prom each year, and they have a special “coupling” committee to aid those
who have not yet found dates for the affair.

Appreciate your patronage this year and hope you continue to come next year.
Norton’s Barber Shop

Grid Schedule
The Wildcats will begin practice September 3, in preparation for one of the hardest schedules a Davidson team has ever
faced. The schedule is as follows:
September 22—Elon, here.
September 29—N. C. State at Greensboro.
October 6—Army at West Point.
October 13—Open.
October 20—Duke at Durham.
October 27—The Citadel, here.
November 3—William & Mary, here.
November 10—Carolina, here.
November 17—V. M. I., here.
November 29—Wake Forest, here.

Frosh Take Third In N.C. Track Meet
Finish Successful Season With Dickson Scoring Leader
The Davidson freshman track team closed a fairly successful season by taking third place in the state meet held last
Saturday at the University of North Carolina.

The freshmen took part in four dual meets this season, besides the state meet. Their first encounter was with High
Point High School on Richardson Field on March 24. They were winners in this meet by a score of 66
to 50. The second meet, with the University of Richmond freshmen here on April 7, was not so successful. The
freshmen bowed to the Virginians with a 31 to 85 count. On April 21, the ’Kittens took their first trip
and met the V. P. I. freshmen at Blacksburg. They came away victorious by 62½ to 53½. Their last complete
meet was with the Presbyterian College freshmen here on April 27, when they were barely nosed out by a 55
to 61 count.

Most of the freshmen were allowed to go off training after this date. Only those who made the trip to
the state meet were requested to stay on the table. Seven ‘Kitten stars went to Chapel Hill on the twelfth
where they took third honors. They were preceded by Duke and Carolina.

The highest individual scorer for the season was Walter Dickson, 100-yard dash, high hurdles, high and broad jump star, who
totaled 56 points, an average of 14 points per meet. Frank Brown, half-mile and mile runner, was second, making several
points in each meet which reached a total of 29. Dick Johnson was the third highest scorer, making points in
every meet with the discus and shot put.

CARS FOR RENT
Gulf Gas and Oil
M. P. HENDERSON

Golfers End Season With Southern Trip
’Cats Bow to Clemson, Furman, Emory, and Ga. Tech
Ending its season with a series of four southern matches last week, the Davidson College golf team lost to Clemson,
Furman, Emory, and Georgia Tech. Last Wednesday, May 9, saw the Wildcats bow before the Clemson Tigers, 10½-7½. On the
following day, in Greenville, S. C., the Furman linksmen defeated the Davisonians, 13-5. Playing in Atlanta, Ga., on Friday and
Saturday, the Davidson golfers went down before the strong Emory and Tech teams by a score of 18-0 in both
matches.

“Probably the strongest team encountered was the last,” say members of the team. The Tech Yellow Jackets met the Wildcats
on the East Lake par-72 course in Atlanta. Yates, No. 1 man for Tech, turned in a par 72, while
the other members of the team netted 74's.

The record of the Davidson golf team does not show up well on paper, but, according to Captain Bill Bowman,
“the boys played their best against strong competition and through a hard schedule. The prospects look better for next year
with all of the present team except Barnes returning, and with good freshman material added to the varsity ranks. The
team also wishes to express its appreciation to Prof. H. E. Fulcher for his interest and help during the present
season.”

Members of the team winning letters this season are Bowman, Barnes, Hamrick, and Cannon. Results of the matches played are
as follows:
April 12—Furman 12, D. C. 6;
April 13—U. S. C. 13½, D. C. 4½;
April 21—Duke 15½, D. C. 2½;
April 25—U. N. C. 14, D. C. 4;
April 26—Duke 16, D. C. 2;
April 27—State 10½, D. C. 7½;
April 30—U. N. C. 15, D. C. 3;
May 9—Clemson 10½, D. C. 7½;
May 10—Furman 13, D. C. 5;
May 11—Emory 18, D. C. 0;
May 12—Georgia Tech 18, D. C. 0.

Ross Meets Berry in C. G. A. Links Tourney
Charlie Ross, Davidson freshman, was entered in the Carolinas Amateur Golf Tournament held in Charlotte last week. He reached the
semi-finals, where he was defeated 6-5 by Cliff Perry, of Duke, in a 36-hole match. In the qualifying round, Ross
netted a 154 (80-74), which placed him in the championship flight. Paired with G. S. McCarty in the opening round,
Ross emerged victor by defeating his opponent one up. He had a 75 for the 18-hole match. On Thursday, in
the second match, the Davidson entry defeated his opponent, Orran, 6-4, by shooting fourteen holes of par golf for the
match.

Entering the semi-finals on Friday with Perry as his opponent, Ross shot an 80 for the morning round, against Perry's
70, and was two over par in the afternoon when the match ended on the thirteenth, Perry winning, 6-5. The
cards were as follows:
(Continued on page 6)

‘Cat Place Third At Chapel Hill As Many Records Fall
Nine State Marks Are Broken in Meet, Three by Davidson Men
FRAZIER IS STAR
Cochrane Breaks Shotput Record; Carolina Wins
The Davidson Wildcat trackmen culminated their 1934 season last Saturday by taking third place in the state intercollegiate track meet,
which was held at Chapel Hill. Three out of the nine state records established during the meet fell to the
Wildcats. Earle Frazier won the mile easily to set a new state record of 4 minutes and 22 seconds, and
later ran the two-mile event in 9 minutes and 43.1 seconds, to clip 5.3 seconds off of the old mark.
Miller Cochrane heaved the shot 46 feet and 3/8 of an inch to cop another state record for the ‘Cats.
Cochrane also took third place in the discus throw. Ras Evans of Davidson placed second in the 220-yard dash and
third in the 100-yard dash. Gammon took second in the high jump and McPhail cleared the 120 and 220-yard hurdles
to take fourth place in each event. Oakes of Davidson placed third in the half-mile, while Lee tied with two
Carolina men for second place in the pole vault.

The ‘Cats started the 1934 track season, after the Carolina meet had been rained out, by handing Furman a 98
to 38 defeat. Three school records fell during this meet. Cochrane, captain of the team, set new records in the
shot put and discus, and Frazier broke the tape for a new school record in the two-mile run. Evans and
Cochrane tied for high scoring position with 13 points each. The Richmond University encounter resulted in a much closer score,
although the ‘Cats were not pushed for points during the run-off. Evans took Davidson's high scoring honors for the day,
winning first in the 100 and 220-yard dashes, and third in the 220-yard low hurdles. Frazier broke his own school
record in the mile.

The Wildcat trackmen either won their third consecutive victory or lost the first meet of the season when they met
the University of Tennessee at Knoxville. According to the scoring system under which the Wildcats have always recorded their meets,
Davidson came out victorious. However, the Vols allotted points for only first and second places and also held a relay,
which they won. Cochrane led the ‘Cats by scoring 11 points, while Frazier (Continued on page 6)

Summer Employment
Solved
Student representatives to distribute educational literature. Three months’ steady work. Local or traveling. Liberal compensation. Address College Dept., 1010 Arch
St., Philadelphia.

Union Theological Seminary
RICHMOND, VIRGINIA
Distinguished for 121 years in the whole field of Theological Education, particularly in the making of Preachers.

Attention!
Order Your Personal Engraved Cards Now. Twenty Styles to Pick From
A SPECIAL PRICE FOR DAVIDSON STUDENTS
Bill Johnson—203 Watts
Standard Printing Company
CHARLOTTE, N.C.
