THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 21, 1934

HALVERSTADT TENNIS CHAMP

Around the Wildcat’s Lair

BEAT CAROLINA — SATURDAY

Again the annual spring tennis tournament ran true to form and for the third successive time Jimmy Halverstadt was the winner. In the finals last Saturday he was pitted against Tee Thompson and although a little off form, he didn’t have much trouble in disposing of Tee in straight sets. The tournament was marked by very few upsets. John Lafferty was beaten by Tee Thompson in the semi-finals, and Carlyle Lewis, the number one on last year’s freshman team, lost a close battle to Barnett in the earlier stages of the tourney. And there’s a boy that’s going places; Martin, conceded little chance at the outset, battled his way into the semi-finals, only to be downed by Halverstadt. Great things are expected of Jimmy this year. Last spring he gained the finals of the state intercollegiate tourney, losing to Wilmer Hines in a thrilling battle, and this year, once he gets started, he’s going to be mighty hard to stop.

Congratulations to Charlie Fort on his re-election as captain of the wrestling team. Although this year’s team met with little success, Charlie was in there every minute, and went through the season winning four out of five matches. His re-election is the wrestling team’s appreciation of the fine spirit he has maintained throughout the year. Coach Unger has been holding spring practice for the grapplers during the past few weeks, and his predictions point to a better team for the 1935 edition.

Did you see Jake Wade's spring football summary in the Sunday Observer? He seems to think that the brand of football that Big Five teams display in the coming fall campaign will be on an altogether higher level than that seen this past season. With the new coaches, Hunk Anderson at State and Carl Snavely at the University, improvements will certainly be shown at these two institutions. Duke will be about the same while Davidson and Wake Forest should come forward quite a bit. But those State boys are going to be the surprise package next year. With a vast abundance of beef and brawn, and a new system installed, they promise to present a much more formidable outfit with the 1934 line-up.

The student body will get its first chance to see the cinder path artists in action this Saturday when the varsity squares off with North Carolina University. A meet with Wofford was originally scheduled for the attraction, but this has been cancelled and the better U. N. C. team engaged in its place. Davidson, though sadly lacking in several events, should put up a stiff fight. With a number of new men, such as Evans, Lee, Frazier, Pittman, and others up from last year’s freshman squad, the track team should continue to hold its own against all comers. The University has a well-rounded outfit in every event, as they have already shown in winning the Southern Conference indoor championship. It will be a real treat to see such men as Abernathy, Montgomery, LeGore, and McRea in action. But let us not be dismayed. The track team needs the support of the students, so why not let’s all turn out with our girl friends Saturday and down those high and mighty Tar Heels?

With spring in the air, the golfers are teeing off in hosts. Professor Fulcher, faculty advisor, has been doing noble work in keeping the ball rolling, and already a large number of men have turned in their qualifying scores for the golf team competition. At the present, Bowman, Barnes, Hamrick, Bunn, and Cochran are the best bets for the four coveted positions.

Michigan State College comes here on the 27th to open the baseball season with Coach Laird’s proteges. In the first scrimmage last week, the reserves gave the famed first team a terrible drubbing, and Laird seems none too pleased with the leavings of last year’s champions. But with a little more time and practice the boys should be ready to swing into their state campaign. Charlie Harris, star right-hander, already in training from the basketball season, is rearing to go. The results of many a battle will depend on him. Morgan, Mackorell, Bumgarner, and Mock are the other lettermen.

(Continued on page 6)

Wildcat Trackmen To Meet Carolina Here On Saturday

Meet With Wofford Is Cancelled Due to Easter Vacation

CANDIDATES NAMED

Local Cindermen Will Meet Winners of Indoor Title

Due to a change in schedule, the University of North Carolina will be Davidson's first opponent in a dual track meet which will take place Saturday afternoon on Richardson Field. Wofford was scheduled for this date, but found it necessary to cancel the engagement because it conflicts with their spring vacation.

Davidson recently competed in the Southern Conference Indoor Meet in which the Wildcats carried off second place honors among the non-conference schools. At the same time the University won the Southern Conference indoor title.

Captain Pritchett has announced a tentative line-up of those who are to participate in the various events. Evans, Faison and Parker are the best candidates for the sprints. Evans won the 60-yard dash at Chapel Hill and tied the present record for non-conference competitors. Tom Frazier, Grant and Johnson are listed for the 440-yard dash and Oakes, Corbin and Rose will enter the half-mile race. Morrow will participate in the mile, together with Earle Frazier, if the latter does not enter the two-mile race. In addition to Frazier, Gullette and Glass have been named for the two-mile course.

McPhail and Pratt are likely candidates for the high hurdles. Pratt has been suffering with a sprained ankle and there is still some doubt as to whether or not he will be in condition by Saturday. There is little available material for the low hurdles, but McPhail and Evans will probably be called on to fill this post.

John Lee, paired with Gammon, will do the high jumping and he will also team up with Paul Pittman in the pole vault. Entrants in the broad jump are Armistead and Grant; in the shot-put, Cochran, McElrath and Potter; in the discus, Cochran, Dill and Potter; and in the javelin, Dill and Cochran. Cochran has received quite a bit of recognition this year in the shot-put.

North Carolina brings a championship team to Davidson with exceedingly strong men in every event. Outstanding members of their team are: McRea, Southern Conference record holder in the mile run; Montgomery, Southern champion in the quarter-mile; Abernathy, state champion in the high hurdles; LeGore, who holds the Southern Conference record in the javelin event; Reid, holder of the Southern Conference indoor record in the high jump, and Jackson and McDonald, who are excellent pole vaulters.

Trial Will Be Held For Sigma Delta Psi

Will Conduct Athletic Events After Spring Holidays

The qualifying events for the membership of the Sigma Delta Psi, national honorary athletic fraternity, will begin shortly after the Easter holidays. Heath Whittle, director of intramural athletics, will direct these events. There are fifteen qualifications to become a member of this fraternity, but after passing off any qualifying event, it is not required to ever pass it again. At present there are a hundred and twenty-five boys who have passed one or more tests, and there are thirteen members in the student body with Miller Cochran as president.

Everyone is eligible to try for Sigma Delta Psi, and anyone having a Davidson letter in any sport can substitute it for any one qualification, with the exception of swimming. The qualifications are: 1. 100-yard dash, 11 3-5 seconds; 2. 120-yard low hurdles, 16 seconds; 3. running high jump, 5 feet; 4. running broad jump, 17 feet; 5. 16-pound shot-put, 30 feet; 6. 20-foot rope climb, 12 seconds; 7. baseball throw, 250 feet; javelin throw, 130 feet; 8. football punt, 120 feet; 9. 100-yard swim, 1 minute, 45 seconds; 10. one-mile run, 6 minutes; 11. front handspring, landing on feet; 12. handstand, 10 seconds; 13. fence vault, chin high; 14. good posture, Standard B (H. B. M.); 15. scholar.

Wildcats Prepare For Michigan Tilt

Reserves Defeat Varsity in First Practice Game

With less than a week to go before the baseball game with Michigan State here, Coach “Red” Laird is fast whipping his men into shape for the opening contest. Saturday’s practice game between the varsity and the second string turned out to be a much-feared upset, with the latter winning by a score of 7 to 0. In spite of Coach Laird’s efforts, the varsity fell miserably short of success in the hitting department. Only two hits were made by the first team during the whole game. However, the second string performed admirably and had little trouble in chalking up their runs. The reserves started their scoring in the second inning by gaining two runs, but didn’t garner the major number of their scores until the fourth inning, giving a total of six runs. Three doubles in the fourth inning put the reserves far ahead of the first team.Pitched an excellent game for the second string and kept the varsity batters well in check. Loftin, Gladstone, and Johnston also played nicely for the reserves. Bumgarner and Rave-

Re-elected Captain
Charlie Fort has been signally honored in that he is the first man ever elected to succeed himself as captain of the Davidson wrestling team. He very ably led the mat-men this season, winning four of his five matches this winter.

First Eight Golfers
The lack of left-handers in the practice game Saturday seriously handicapped both the hitting and pitching departments. However, Coach Laird hopes to make up for this and present a hard-hitting outfit before the season is over. “How the squad will line up individually will depend upon how the men hit,” stated Laird. “Some men who are not on the job will soon find themselves on the bench if they don’t get busy.”

Frosh Cindermen To Hold Meet Thursday
High Point High School Will Be Initial Opponents

The freshman track team has been working hard in preparation for its first meet of the season with High Point High School, which will be held here tomorrow. Although prospects this year are not quite as bright as they were last season, the freshmen have proved their ability by winning second place in the inter-class track meet held last week. The sophomores won first place with 56 points, leading the freshmen, who gained a total of 47. Dickson, a first-year man, was high scorer of the meet with 10 points. He will take part in several events, including the 100-yard dash, the high hurdles, the high jump, and the broad jump. Brock and Dyerly are outstanding men, entering the low hurdles. Fowler and D. P. Johnson will run the 220; Gladden the 440; Cox and Brown the 880, and Higgins and Clark the mile. In the field events, there are several outstanding performers. The services of Peabody in the pole vault, Dick Johnson in the discus and shot, and S. Moffett and Harkins in the javelin are being counted on by Coach Whittle.

Selected This Week
Five Men Will Be Selected Before Holidays

According to Charlie Hamrick, manager, the golf tournament between the students and faculty, which is being held for the purpose of selecting eight men to try for the varsity team, will end today or tomorrow. At the time this article was written, the men to be selected were doubtful, the running being about even. Those making a strong bid for the first eight positions of this first elimination are: Bowman, who turned in a low total score of 153 for 36 holes; Hamrick, Ben Barnes, Bunn, Powell, Cannon, Cochran, and Hutaff. Others entered in the tournament and well in the running are: Vaiden, Otey, Hellinger, Price, Porter, Moore, Nickey, and J. Morrow. Beginning tomorrow and continuing until the Easter holidays, the eight men selected today will ring up a 36-hole score (probably to be extended over two or three days) at the Carolina Golf Club in Charlotte, the results of these matches to determine the varsity team of four men and one alternate. Like the tennis team, the members of the golf team will always be open to challenge by means of the “ladder” system. That is, any member of the team may challenge the man next above himself and anyone may challenge the alternate. Thus, the team is subject to constant change, and the best players will be assured positions. Although there are no lettermen on the squad, the new material has shown much improvement since the beginning of the year, and some of the scores turned in indicate that stiff competition will be provided the opponents of the Wildcat linkmen. Professor H. E. Fulcher, of the physics department, is coaching the candidates out for the golf team this year.

Shirts and Shorts
HANES wear, there. A size forty-two. Comfort, style! You'll be happy in HANES! Made to fixed standard. There is nothing miserly about the cutting or skimping of a half-inch here and there. HANES Shirts, Shorts, and knitted Union Suits (both light and heavy) always tally with the tape-measure. No underwear could grow as HANES has grown unless it offered quality and comfort. P.H. Hanes Knitting Company, Winston-Salem, N. C.

Sophs Win Inter-Class Track Meet
Evans, Dickson, and Newton Are High Scorers

The Sophomore class barely nosed out the Freshmen to take first honors in the inter-class track competition last week with a total of 56 points. The Freshmen followed closely with 47 points. Third and fourth places were taken by the Senior and Junior classes, respectively, with totals of 29 and 19 points. The present Sophomore class, the class of 1936, won the inter-class meet last year. They had the high scorer of the meet, Ras Evans. Evans led the field with three first places, in the 100-yard dash, the 220-yard dash, and the low hurdles, totaling 15 points in all. The Freshmen came forward with some good material, particularly J. W. Dickson, who was the second high scorer of the meet with 10 points. Dickson won first place in the high hurdles, tied for first place in the high jump, and took fourth place in the 100-yard dash. J. L. Newton, of the Junior class, came third with seven points; Mokey Faison, Sophomore, and F. A. Brown, Freshman, tied for fourth place with six points each. Sophomores winning events were: Evans, 100-yard dash, 220-yard dash, and low hurdles; Fraley, 440-yard dash; Glass, two-mile run; J. Johnston, javelin; and Lee, pole vault (tied). Freshmen winning events were: Brown, mile run; Dickson, high hurdles and high jump (tied), and Peabody, pole vault (tied). Seniors winning events were: Corbin, 880-yard run; McElrath, shot-put; and Armistead, broad jump. Juniors winning events were: Newton, discus, and Gammon, high jump (tied).

Candidates for Frosh Tennis Start Tourney
The freshman tennis tournament began yesterday, and twenty racquet-wielders went out to seek berths on the freshman net team. The following men entered the tournament: Allen, Boggs, Bradley, Carlson, Cassaday, Cook, Cowan, Dyer, Eaton, Feuchtenberger, Fryfogle, Gaw, Groover, Johnson, LeGrand, Milton, Peters, Robinson, Squires, and Woodward.

After Giving Us a Trial You Are Sure to Wear a Smile
Norton’s Barber Shop

Halverstadt Wins Over T. Thompson In Tennis Tourney
Halverstadt Defeats Barnett and Thompson Defeats Lafferty in Semi-Finals

Two Major Upsets
Twenty-two Team Aspirants Enter Tournament

Jimmy Halverstadt, seeded number one, won with little difficulty the finals of the annual school tennis tournament Saturday by virtue of a 6-0, 6-2, 6-3 win over W. T. Thompson in the final round. Twenty-two team aspirants entered the tournament and many well-fought matches were played. Upsets were numerous throughout the play-off. The second round found only sixteen of the original twenty-two men left in the running, with the eight seeded players holding true to the dope. A surprising upset was scored in the second round by Martin Barnett, Mississippi racquet-wielder, who downed Lewis, fourth-seeded player, in a two-set match, 6-1, 7-5. Barnett’s improved backhand and point-scoring forehand proved too much for Lewis. Six of the eight seeded players entered the third round, losing W. E. Thompson, who was defeated, 4-6, 6-0, 6-3, by T. B. Gold, and Lewis. There were no upsets in the quarter-finals and no what might be called hard matches, as none of the semi-finalists dropped a set in gaining their position. Barnett, in a round which the seeded list said he had a small chance of reaching, was defeated by Halverstadt, 6-1, 6-0, to place the number one player in the finals. A match distinguished by smashing overheads and terrific drives was fought between Lafferty and W. T. Thompson to gain the final round from the lower bracket. Playing a brainy game of tennis, Thompson won the match, 6-4, 7-5, 6-3. Real tennis was exhibited in the match and the outcome was in doubt till the last game had been won. Too much could not be said of the final match. It was a battle between two hard-hitting, tennis-thinking players. Halverstadt, using an effective drop shot and a well-placed drive which chopped holes in the court lines, swept Thompson off his feet in the first set, winning 6-0. The second set, as the score indicates, was well fought, but the much greater experience and perfected shots of the prospective state champion proved too much for the lower bracket finalist as he dropped the second set, 6-3. Thompson won the first two games, this being the only time he led in game score throughout the match.

(Continued on page 6)

Got a Cold? Vicks VapoRub Tonight!
(Full details of Vicks Colds-Control Plan in each Vicks package)

Davidson Theatre
Wednesday: “Journal of a Crime” - Ruth Chatterton, Adolphe Menjou
Thursday and Friday: “Fashions of 1934” - William Powell, Bette Davis
Saturday: Allison Skipworth, Victor McLaglen
Monday: “Three on a Honeymoon” - Sally Eilers, Johnny Mac Brown
Tuesday: “Jimmy the Gent” - James Cagney, Bette Davis
Wednesday: “Showoff” - Spencer Tracy