THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 17, 1934

THE DAVIDSONIAN ©
Founded by the Class of 1915

MEMBER
Associated Collegiate Press

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Printed by the QUEEN CITY PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate year.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879.

ARTICLES FOR PUBLICATION must be in the hands of Managing Editors by 4:00 o'clock p.m., Monday. Letters to the Editor
are welcome, but all communications intended for publication must be signed.

Business Manager
K. D. WEEKS

EDITORIAL STAFF
Managing Editor
Martin BARNETT
Managing Editor
Paul HARLAN
Managing Editor
Tom MARCHANT
Managing Editor
John WALKER
Managing Editor
Harvey GEARS
Sports Editor
Exchange Editor
Feature Editor
Feature Editor
Associate Editor
Lamont BROWN
Associate Editor
Ernie BOWERS
Associate Editor
Carlyle LEWIS
Associate Editor
Scotty McLEOD
Associate Editor
G. L. GUERRANT
Associate Editor
E. F. McPHAIL
Associate Editor
Byron ROSTER
Associate Editor
Jack MEGGINSON

BUSINESS STAFF
Nelson GOSURN
Asst. Business Mgr.
Val CASSELS
Asst. Business Mgr.
Tom ROSS
Asst. Business Mgr.
J. S. McMULLEN
Asst. Business Mgr.
R. P. MORROW

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 17, 1934

“Better late than never,” is not half so good a maxim as “Better never late.”

PARAGRAPHICS

The two services conducted last Sunday by Dr. “Tolly” Thompson of Richmond were well attended by the students and proved
quite enjoyable. The new plan of inviting a guest preacher from various places once a month is one that has
been welcomed by the student body. It is certainly a well-directed move and one that has come after much careful
consideration.

The balloting in the election for a new vice-president to fill the vacancy left by Bob Richardson has been the
closest witnessed here in many a day. It took four ballots to elect one man out of six candidates, and
each time the margins between the number of votes could be counted on the fingers of both hands. This is
proof that in the eyes of the student body there are a number of good men for the office and
it is also proof that the elections next Spring will be close and spirited.

There is one redeeming feature about the crushing defeat handed the Wildcats by the Army Cadets. Drake University, who was
considered to have a much better team than Davidson and who had prospects of being formidable opponents for Army, took
a worse beating than we did: forty-eight to nothing as compared with forty-one to nothing. Army either has a “Rose
Bowl” team or the advance game dope on Davidson and Drake has been far from right.

We hope the Seniors will take an active interest in submitting snapshots of themselves for the annual. For the last
year or two there seems to have been a lapse of interest as regards having pictures made for the “Quips
and Cranks.” It should be remembered that pictures make a yearbook and that a yearbook is one of the most
valuable souvenirs that we can have of our college days.

A COLLEGE PRESIDENT’S INAUGURAL ADDRESS

Dr. Tyler Dennett, who was recently elected new president of Williams College, made an inaugural address which due to its
impressive qualities and originality warrants excerpts of it being printed here and has brought forth editorial comment in other papers.
His address was not a flowery one, nor was it one boasting his oratorical ability, but it was one well
put, practical and one which every student would do well to consider before he or she enters or leaves college.
The outstanding feature of his address was that although during a changing world and unpredictable conditions it was poised and
serene and spoke the humble truth.

“An astonishingly large number of young people enter college lacking the most essential quality in character. They are deficient in
the simple quality of honesty; not meaning that they lie and steal, but that they are not honest with themselves,”
Dr. Dennett said. His address was bound to have made a profound impression not only on the students but also
on the parents. It reads in part as follows:

“We are going to take your boy on a great adventure out through a wilderness of ideas some of which
quite possibly you, with your habits of living and settled convictions, would not have the courage to face. We hope
that the boy has the character to carry his load on through for we have in mind to bring him
out some day into a clearing where he can see quite around himself, his old home and his parents over
there, his schools, his teachers, his books, his companions over here, and himself an individual separate from you and separate
from us, standing on his own feet. We trust, however, that although an individual he will remain a son and
that he will become a citizen, an integral part of the social life of a great nation. It is our
desire that your young man shall come out with a discernment to cling to what is good both of what
you and what we have given him. We hope also that he will know enough to throw away the chaff.”

“The last word I shall say to your boy is to go back or, if he comes from some large
center, then to summon a little of that pioneer spirit which still runs in his veins, and strike out into
the country where our people perish for lack of leadership. I should like to send him back, not with his
nose in the air, but with a broad tolerance which is the crown of culture, and I cannot refrain from
hoping that you, waiting there to greet him, will also be tolerant. The saddest part of this terrible process by
which our smaller centers of population have been bled white is that so many parents do not know, and are
not willing honestly to face, the reason why the boys do not wish to go back home when they are
out of college.”

From this we can tell that Williams has a president that knows life, the fundamental and essential things of life
and although no doubt a modern scholar has not forgotten these things. Students and graduates under the influence of such
a leader are bound to strengthen the national life of our country.

“QUIPS AND CRANKS” APPEALS TO STUDENTS

Here's a problem! A fundamental principle of economics is involved, so grit your teeth, and get a good grip on
your chair. We are familiar with the proposition that if Willie, Frank, or anyone else has $0.10, he can purchase
with it only articles whose total price equals said $0.10. Very well. Now for the next step: If the same
Willie, or Frank, or anyone else, has only $4800, how can he secure with it a product the price of
which is $6000? A difficult predicament, indeed! In fact, the situation seems to resolve itself into two alternatives: 1. the
$4800 product, or 2. $6000: less, in this case, not totally impossible! Swelling the $4800 to $6000 is little short
of a miracle, it’s true, nevertheless!

We realize that when the word “annual,” or even its campus synonym, “Quips and Cranks,” is mentioned, there looms up
in the minds of many the idea of a fairly decent and expensive volume, inevitably appearing on the last day
of school, whose editor and business manager immediately take the first boat for Europe. However, though this certainly is a
most pleasing myth, facts do not altogether sustain it, and belief in it exerts a somewhat destructive influence on said
annual. So, although the job is a rather distasteful one, we nevertheless feel compelled by duty to do what little
we can toward dispelling this very damaging illusion.

We know that for a great many of the student body, these words are unnecessary, but there also remains a
large percentage who are unconverted. For them, we wish to stress the fact that if the annual is to be
even fairly decent, and necessarily expensive—certainly if it is to measure up to the standard set by its predecessors—it is
imperative that the gap between $4800 and $6000 be bridged; and the only really practical way for this to be
accomplished is for at least two-thirds of the student body to join in the rush to have their pictures taken.
Thus the difference can be made up between the amount collected from the student publication fees, advertisements, and organizations, and
the price of a really creditable annual.

No greater practical contribution toward making the 1935 “Quips and Cranks” the best one yet produced can be made than
for every man to make a special effort to have his picture taken when the photographer is here next week.
We feel that your return will be in an annual in which your picture is the voucher for your whole-hearted
cooperation.

—R. H. SMITH, Editor Quips and Cranks.

COMPASSING THE CAMPUS
By Scotty McLEOD

Whether it was a personal interest in the speaker, a natural longing for religious revival, the reputation of the minister,
or the inducement of credited church attendance that caused the large influx of students into Chambers at last Sunday's Vesper
Service, it is not our purpose to say. We do feel, however, that the increased attendance at this particular service
indicates that when the Y. M. C. A. announces an important and popular speaker, and the college cooperates by admitting
credit for Vesper attendance, the Davidson students will certainly be present for the service. This fact was exemplified Sunday. Over
half the student body, most of the faculty, and a number of townspeople were present; and if any were disappointed
in the Vespers, we have failed to hear of it. Professor Pfohl’s excellent glee club renditions added materially to a
near-perfect program. Dr. “Tolly” Thompson’s challenging and intimate talk on Temptation was rich, soul-searching, and thought-inspiring. He summons Davidson students
to a moment of introspection and self-appraisal.

That funniest of funny magazines will appear the first of November according to Lorenzo McPhail, who bows into the spotlight
with the initial issue of the current year’s YOWL. Lorenzo and his boys have been staying up late the last
few nights trying to be funny; how successful they have been we will soon know by their papers. THE YOWL,
more than any other publication of the campus, needs the whole-hearted support of the student body for its continued merry
existence. We wish for it a big year in a big way!

ODD SIGHTS: Kirk Hanrahan rushing into your room with L. P. sandwiches and other goodies to eat; little Kirk surely
has some sales line even though he is studying for the ministry... The “B" squad needed “Chief Ka-Twonk” Sanders intheir
game Saturday... Bob Kornegay, Mal Grimes, Charlie Thompson, Tom Ross, Val Cassels, and others at the big blow-out over near
Concord this weekend. It was a Cabarrus County Fair, and a pretty fair one according to these boys; DuBose riding
a ferris wheel at this same exposition... Lindsay Watt, George Cowan, and others on an extended gridiron tour to Raleigh,
Greensboro, and other points... Johnny Lafferty, new coach and teacher over at Kings Mountain, in Davidson over the weekend... Bob
Smith, the new Y pres... Everybody going to see Alice Fay and find out how she learned about sailors, Saturday
night... Joe Dees pepping things up at the game against Campbell College... Skip Brown’s witty between-the-halves announcement at the same
game, “Referee Harris kicks off to the headlinesman, and the water-boys are defending both goals,” or something to that effect.

It is our belief that the most outstanding need of our college today is a suitable place for aquatic exercise;
a swimming pool has been known to serve the purpose. Some people who have tried these pools tell us that
they serve the purpose admirably: the purpose being, of course, to stay on top of the water three times. If
you stay on top of the water three times and come up after not going down, you may be sure
that you are a safe swimmer. For the masses of students who do not indulge in the more strenuous forms
of athletics, a swimming pool would be the very thing for exercise. We must not spend all our time studying,
you know, but should get just a little recreation now and then. A bathing beach is not handy, it is
getting too cold for river or lake swimming, and a swimming pool (if we had one) would be a most
welcome addition to our college equipment.

OUR CONTEMPORARIES
By Enip Bowers

Duke University
Was rather amused at an editorial in the Duke Chronicle of this week. The article headed “Believe It Or Not”
stated that there is concrete evidence of a growing friendship between the University of North Carolina and Duke. The rivalry
of 48 years’ standing generally gives rise to periodic spasms of mutual dislike between students of universities in close proximity
to each other, and the long history of Carolina-Duke competition in all branches of athletics has been no exception. It
has amounted to hatred in past years, but the tide has definitely turned. The evidences upon which these predictions are
based concern the reactions to the Carolina-Tennessee football score when broadcasted over the Duke stadium loudspeaker—a voluntary wave of cheering
and handclapping swept through the stands. A diplomatic move and I don’t believe that the extreme rivalry has ended in
such a short time. The concrete will break when the two teams play their game.

University of Georgia
Plans for “Cane and Derby” day, an old Georgia tradition which requests seniors to wear derbies and carry canes during
the Homecoming weekend, are being completed.

“She used to sit upon his lap
And stroke his hair with glee
But now she’s become seasick—
He's got water on his knee.”

Virginia Polytechnic Institute
Bert Lown and his orchestra will play for the German Club’s dances to be given on Friday and Saturday nights,
October 19 and 20. Marty Gregor and his Band have been signed to play for the Cotillion Club at V.
P. I. 10,360 pies are consumed each year by the ravenous students. It was estimated that for a cow to
produce the annual milk and cream supply for the Institute, the animal would have to work very diligently for a
period of 120 years.

Collegiana
There are no mid-year finals at Yale... A student at the University of Paris can live in the Latin quarters
for about $230 for two semesters. His tuition amounts to only $5.60 for a year... There are more inmates in
insane asylums in the country than there are college students... At the University of Holland unique customs govern the conduct
of the fraternity pledges. Each must shave his hair off, enter the house by a window—under no circumstances is he
allowed to use a door... Ex-criminals are to teach their arts at the University of Chicago... Elihu Root is a
graduate of Hamilton College, Clinton, N. Y. This institution offers a $500 scholarship to anyone with the name of Leavenworth...
Stepin Fetchit, the long, lanky, lackadaisical colored screen character attended St. Joseph’s College in Montgomery, Ala... Students at the University
of Missouri may take out insurance against flunking. If a student flunks, the company gives him enough money to pay
his way through summer school. At Ohio State, it is reported that between $75,000 and $100,000 has been spent for
similar insurance... At the University of Tennessee, there is a date bureau. All men desiring dates for particular nights put
down their description of the type they would like to have a date with. The co-eds do the same. In
this way, satisfaction is had by all.

FIVE YEARS AGO
Davidson’s R. O. T. C. training may be abolished in school by Presbyterian Synod. Dr. Lingle withholds personal views on
the question... Much-needed trousers are donated to Davidson Band by a modest gentleman who requests that his name be withheld...
Sixteen thousand spectators see Davidson Wildcats hold Army eleven to a sixteen-point lead... Davidson College Church approved by N. C.
Synod at its recent session...

TEN YEARS AGO
Wofford puts up a stubborn defense but succumbs 7-0 to the Wildcat attack... Wingate College eleven swamped by Wildkittens... New
bleachers give Davidson a seating capacity of five thousand... Davidson prepares to battle a heavy Lenoir team; eve of game
ushers in stunt night for classes, which promises frolic for all.

FIFTEEN YEARS AGO
Brass Band begins to beat... Band is to have twenty-eight pieces this year. The band is to become a permanent
organization on Davidson’s campus. The U. S. government has offered to furnish the instruments... Wildcats welcomed with wonderful reception upon
return from game with W. & L, in which they were defeated 7-0. Davidsonians show they are behind their team
even in defeat.

TWENTY YEARS AGO
Davidson defeats Newberry by the score of 22-7... A coaching committee has been organized to help members of the athletic
teams in their scholastic work. Davidson coaches and managers are determined not to lose the services of good athletes and
have made this arrangement since the passing of eligibility rules in intercollegiate sports.

SELECTED PAPERS of PHINEAS SPOON
“Of New Deal Criticism”

There is a perhaps growing element in these “Benighted States” who do not sing Hosannah with the New Deal apologists.
In this peculiar day, our masses have become “politics” conscious to an extent not equaled since the Colonial demonstration against
“taxation without representation.” Indeed, if all of the variegated manuscripts, economic and political, presently being published, were laid end-to-end, this
prodigious undertaking would provide gainful employment to 736 Federal bureaucrats. Notwithstanding the vast amount of controversial invective with which our
political atmosphere is charged today, a substantial portion of it is undeserving of consideration. Too much is common claptrap. Tirades
against the Roosevelt program issue from agencies of thought ranging down the gamut of motives from cunning jealousy to bland
fanaticism. Some are demagogues and opportunists who, for reasons inexplicable to any but their perverted ilk, would benefit from the
derogation of the “New Deal” sponsors... at whatever cost to the nation. What really reveals the character of criticism is
the design and motive of the critic. Today these subtle motives are legion. For instance, in the “Roaring Twenties” there
were Pollyannas who could see “pie in the sky, bye and bye.” They built their world on U. S. Steel
at 246. “Where are the snows of yesteryear?” In this present year of our fall from grace, too many hapless,
disillusioned spirits, in the backwash of their affluence, are nursing shapeless grievances. It is the part of human nature to
react against the order which, in the course of natural events, supplants the exhausted dispensation of “milk and honey.” No
comfort comes from cursing the gods of an outrageous fortune, “The arrows come to rest we know not where.” And
yet there is a rankling sense of “injustice suffered” which demands a scapegoat for expiation. Find the scapegoat upon which
can be heaped the responsibility for frustrated dreams, and Fortune’s fools can carry on with a minimum of mental anguish.
Whooped up by the political tom-toms of diverse “interests,” mobilized under a diversity of banners, many pressure groups are variously
participating in a political offensive. With naught in common but reactionism, the phalanxes of dissatisfaction move up against the citadel
of the “New Deal” under a barrage of carping gunnery. Bombast and Fury: over the air, through the press, down
from the pulpit, the conflicting exhortations rain. Chambers of Commerce, Rotary Clubs, sundry Conventions make resolutions on this and that.
The blatant volume of this controversy is more increased with the injection of esoteric theories by professorial antagonists and “authorities”
of one description and another. The distressing feature is not the fact that controversy rages. Surely debate and four-square disagreement
are thoroughly wholesome in effect. What should disturb us is the positive profusion, and consequent confusion, of interpretations as to
exactly what constitutes the debatable issues. The prevalence of insincere attacks which purposely raise false issues intensifies the chaos. The
conjurors of imaginary wrongs draw herrings across the trail of even earnest thinking. In this turbulent climate of Bombast and
Fury, what ordinary mortal can make anything intelligible out of the chaos of confusion which surrounds? The verbiage is so
massed that it gluts the mind, overpowers reason, and chokes out truth. It strikes this very fallible observer that despite
the diversity of contemporary opinion, there is but one issue in ascendance which is of vital consequence to Americans today.
One issue to which all other considerations, no matter how violently sustained, must be sublimated. Toward the end of his
latest “fireside chat,” by remote control, the President in a moment of unfamiliar definitiveness drew the first sharp lines and
posed the issue. When he came out unequivocally for “economic security” he, for the first time, hoisted his colors. From
this point, the controversy can take shape.

—PHINEAS SPOON

Editor's Note—Phineas Spoon’s next paper is the body of an essay, to which this is but an introduction. As such,
these two are essentially companion pieces.

GIRLS, WOMEN wishing to enter free training to become nurses send self-addressed stamped envelope for details, Southern Bureau, Box 222,
Atlanta, Ga.
