THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 2, 1934

The Davidsonian

FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

Member of Associated Collegiate Press — 1933-1934

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

Printed by the STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: Ten cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate year.

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879.

Articles for publication must be in the hands of Managing Editors by 4:00 o’clock p.m., Monday. Letters to the Editor are welcome but must be signed.

KENNETH D. WEEKS... Managing Editor
J. A. C. WADSWORTH... Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
Managing Editor
Sports Editor
Sports Editor
Managing Editor
Managing Editor
Managing Editor
Associate Editor
Associate Editor
Associate Editor
Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
COLEMAN BRANTON... Assistant Business Manager
A. G. BRENIZER... Assistant Business Manager
B. GOS... Assistant Business Manager
TOM ROSS... Assistant Business Manager
S. J... Assistant Business Manager
ORRO WASS... Assistant Business Manager

WEDNESDAY, MAY 2, 1934

That book is good in vain which the reader throws away. —Samuel Johnson.

A TWO-FOLD OBLIGATION

The period of student body voting for the selection of campus leaders which began about a month ago has nearly come to an end. By a majority vote of the students, we have expressed our approval of the leaders who have been elected—our student body president, our class presidents, our Y.M.C.A. president, our athletic leaders, our publications editors, and their staffs. Leaders in every phase of student life have been chosen for the coming school year.

Upon the completion of the election and installation of these officers, there immediately arose a two-fold obligation: that on the part of the leaders, and that on the part of the members of the student body. The first is the task of guidance, and the second is the task of support. These two tasks can be accomplished only by cooperation on the part of the leaders and the supporters, however trite the expression may be.

The first task, that of guidance, applies to those who have been placed in these honored and responsible positions. May they accept not only the honor and become mere figureheads cherishing their position for the glory of it and for the sake of having their names and pictures published, but may they also accept and strive to perform the responsibilities which have been entrusted to them! The honor and glory are not to be reaped until the task has been accomplished.

The second task, that of supporting, lies with us. We have given those of our choice the task of leading and guiding us; now it is up to us to follow. We must not take a back seat and be indifferent toward them. Each one of us must do our part, no matter how small it is, for after all, it is the combined efforts of the student body that go to make a better Davidson. Let us do our part in the “Y” work, let us uphold the Student Council, and let us abide by our Honor System.

Davidson is now one of the few outstanding colleges in North Carolina that still has the Honor System. Other schools have abandoned this sort of system, and the trend all over the country is toward abolishment due to lack of support from the students. Let us not weaken with the trend, but let us tighten our hold by giving one hundred percent support and strict adherence to the principles of our organizations. Only in this way can we keep Davidson singled out as a shining example among colleges. Especially is it expedient at this time that we begin with the new regime that we have chosen by giving them our loyal support, for “from a bad beginning cometh a bad ending.”

A PLEA FOR RECOGNITION

Our curriculum here at Davidson is one that is well-rounded, well-balanced, and thorough for a school of its kind and size. The various departments are quite efficient and capable of taking care of the needs and desires of the student that comes to Davidson College. This editorial is not intended in any way to criticize the present academic set-up, but it has for its purpose to show how an additional department or even a course of a particular nature would be of great benefit and practical value to a number of students here at Davidson, although the lack of it in the past has not, perhaps, brought detrimental results.

The need of which this piece speaks is a course in journalism. We earnestly feel that the types and quality of the publications which we have here in the college yearbook “Quips and Cranks,” the humor magazine “The Yowl,” and the “Davidsonian” justly deserve recognition in the way of some degree of instruction in journalism, especially in the case of the latter.

Any aid along this line would be more than we could boast of at the present. Each year when new men report for work on the “Davidsonian,” they are practically all inexperienced in newspaper work. Any journalistic instruction they receive is given to them by the editor and managing editors at meetings which the editor calls for that purpose when he finds time. One can readily see that this amount of instruction is uncertain and inadequate.

It is true that our publications have held high ratings and have been good ones in the past, but this credit is due solely to those editors and their staffs who have gone before. Through their own efforts alone have these publications reached their present rank and not from any outside aid.

There are more reasons than one that a course in journalism would be of benefit here. Students interested in this work could receive training and at the same time apply it. This would be of great practical value and would certainly help overcome obstacles which hinder our work at present. Then there are students here who intend to do graduate work in journalism. Instruction in this now would aid them greatly in their future work. Lastly, there is hardly a school anywhere of Davidson’s rank that does not provide for some type of journalistic instruction, and most of them give credits to students taking these courses. We sincerely hope that some consideration will be taken of these facts and some provision made in the near future.

“WHAT FOOLS THESE MORTALS BE”

At the head of a comic sheet in one of the leading newspapers, we find these words: “What fools these mortals be.” If we see what fools we are in the comic sheet only, there would be no purpose in this editorial. But every day on the front page we see what fools we are, and the trouble is that this front page “comic” is true!

We read headlines similar to these: Preparedness for peace, or we must have a large navy and a large army to keep peace. Yes, and starve the taxpayers.

In the Hearst’s newspapers, there are editorials almost daily calling for preparedness—more ships and more money, more airplanes, and more men for the army. There is one thing about this movement to build in order to keep peace that is not understood, and that is: Why do we need a huge fleet of ships parading our coasts when only a few would be sufficient to help commercial ships in time of distress? Why do we need troops drilling day in and day out, learning how to kill people, when we have enough policemen to keep order?

Well, you say we need the large navy and army for national defense. Then it is suggested that all nations disarm. You say it can’t be done; that we have tried and failed. But it can be done! In the April issue of the “Fortune” magazine, there is an article entitled “Arms and Men.” This article puts a new light, for many who have read it, on just why nations are arming. In the article, names are plainly given of the men who, because of their arms factories, have been “flies in the ointment” of numerous arms parleys. One boasts that he was the cause of the failure of the late London Conference. These men have gotten such a hold on the politics, especially of Europe, that they are the “bosses” of the politicians and they back men who are most likely to stir up trouble. Hitler was supported in his campaign by arms manufacturers. There are other cases cited in the article where these men, for the sake of worldly gain, have done much in preventing peace.

When we consider that seventy cents of every dollar paid in federal taxes goes to the building and upkeep of our army and navy, there is little wonder why school teachers go unpaid and schools are failing more every year to come up to par, that thousands of citizens become sick at heart because of the weight of taxes and give up hope, that the CWA and other like organizations are having to stop functioning for lack of funds, etc. If we could only realize how much easier life would be if that enormous amount spent for the army and navy would be left at home, there would be very few who would not do their part in helping to stamp out the idea that we must have huge navies and armies in order to keep peace.

—J. B. L.

At The Broadcaster

Spring is in the air! ... Can't you feel it? Maybe you can, but I can't. I am cold as the dickens while writing this out on the campus. ... But just the same, it’s spring. ... Can’t you smell it? ... I am inhaling some peculiar odors coming from the chemistry lab. ... Something ought to be done about such horrible odors. ... Ah, spring! ... The campus is getting greener every day; the flowers are blooming; the birds are singing... . And, “In spring, a young man’s fancy lightly turns to thoughts of Arde gr} You fill in, it should make an interesting game. ... Examinations approach on the bright horizon. ... Too bad we have to take such things in such weather ... or in any kind of weather. ... Students roam around in shirt sleeves. ... Professors work hard to keep the students awake in classes. ... Girls seem to look much nicer in spring frocks. ... I’m sleepy, it must be spring fever... . If we only didn’t have those darned old classes. School should really end the first of April. ... Ho-hum, ’tis spring.

Flash! Ben Wyche is a new “find” of Morganton Lunatic Asylum! Authorities on the insane caught this Davidson student without the goods, but, only finding him to be “nertz,” sent him back to Davidson! That’s how the news, over-exaggerated, reached this department. But that can’t be true. Now that we have had our fun, let’s get the facts. Dr. Hood and his abnormal psychology class took a trip to Morganton last week to study the cases which they have been taking up in the classroom. On their arrival at the insane asylum, Ben Wyche was framed by two Davidson students who grabbed his arms, messed up his hair, and to Ben's amazement, led him up the stairs. While the crowds gasped as Ben was being escorted, the surprised student could not try to escape because his insanity would have been even more obvious. So with the kind wordsof his escorters to “be calm,” Ben, in his new role, walked up and took it. This couldn’t go on forever, so it ended right there, and thus our big scoop concludes. Better luck next time, Ben. That is, of course, in reference to your embarrassment.

I wish to acknowledge two letters received this week from readers of The Broadcaster. The first is a letter from Bill Mullis, who writes from Harvard Law School in Cambridge, Mass. The other is from a student who signs his name, “Guess Who.” I appreciate these letters very much, and again I encourage the readers to send in their opinions and tell the world their thoughts. Both letters are published below.

Dear Broadcaster:
Your discussion of the freshman voting privilege seems by far the most commendable yet offered on the subject. You treat it as a privilege and not a right, which discloses your having taken Polit. 2, or did you already realize that? I disagree with you, and almost entirely for practical reasons. To dispose of the greatest complaint first, I agree that the freshmen are the ones who are best fitted to choose the cheerleader, and I do not believe that the Student Council in framing the amendment had in mind barring the freshmen from choosing that man any more than they did the Sophomore class president. An interpretation of the amendment to mean student body officers would remove that thorn.

There are many things to be said for such an amendment. You will not agree at first, but with the exercise of your memory and your realization that man is capable of unlovely things, for instance, “politicking,” you'll see some justification, I’m sure.

All legislative acts must be considered in the light of history. The real reason can’t be found without such consideration; neither can any appreciation be worked up without it, when the move has elements of unpopularity in it. Would it make any difference to you to know that the suggestion for such an amendment came on the unanimous motion of one of the two leading honorary societies? Or that it was considered at great length by a Student Council which had been elected under the old system and yet were broad enough to condemn such a system? Or that the proposed amendment was read to the student body one day and voted on several days later after time for full consideration had been given? Or that no opposition to its passage was offered at the time? Rather an indication, don’t you think, that the students did not wish the possibility of such conditions remaining?

These features stand out to me:
1. Freshmen do not know the best men in the student body by name, character, and action. They know many seniors, but those men are not voted upon. They know few juniors and sophomores by anything but reputation and fully too. These they vote on.
2. Rising sophomores comprise over a third portion of the student body in their first spring. They are more easily swayed by propaganda (of the word of mouth variety); and because they are feeling the power of moving as a class for the first time in student body activities, they are susceptible to a choice of making themselves important as over against making their individual choices for the officer to be picked. (That was the feature that brought the amendment forth; the others had been existent before, but this condition of being a potential pawn for a clever manipulator brought the thing to a head. It'll happen rarely, but it'll happen, nevertheless. Only by banding all the other classes together was it possible to keep a certain election from being ridiculous. That gave the students a sufficient scare to realize the necessity for action.)
3. One of the most valuable collateral benefits of such an amendment should be the appreciation of the voting privilege when it is accorded. There could be much less abuse of the vote by men who were made to realize its importance.

You, of course, realize, as we can tell by your column, what other editorial writers on the subject have missed, that the vote is a privilege to be granted only to those capable of exercising it correctly.

A feature that didn’t appeal to me was suggested in the editorial of February 14. Why should Davidson copy the systems of other colleges? Our student government has been far more successful than most other colleges’, and it certainly wasn’t because we copied those others.

I can see how your innate sense of justice was violated when the freshmen weren't allowed to vote on the matter they were better qualified to handle than any others, but as for discarding an amendment which was thrown up as a safeguard by people just as interested in the welfare of Davidson as you are, tread carefully!

Most sincere regards to you and success to your column,
Bill Mullis, Harvard Law School, Cambridge, Mass.

Dear Broadcaster:
Please understand that this is no ordinary fan mail, although I must let you know how much I enjoy your column. Since you have shown so much interest in the current problems on the campus, I wish you would write on the present grading system, and suggest some material improvement.

Lovingly,
Guess Who.

Dear Guess Who:
Thanks very much. Watch for this column next week for an answer.

Yours,
The Broadcaster.

Compassing The Campus
The sole purpose of this new column is to present a campus chatter-box for your enjoyment. It is subject to your critical appraisal, and we welcome suggestions and comments from the student body.

Sassiety—
Last weekend was certainly a highlight for Davidson’s social lions and cubs; only a few students were left on the campus, while numbers flocked to Spartanburg, Chapel Hill, Greensboro, Lynchburg, Charlotte, and intermediate points. One Converse swain returned to Davidson Sunday morning, got lonely, so he went back to Spartanburg to spend the Sabbath with his fair young maid. The local B. M. O. C. club was represented at the May Frolic in the Tin Can at Chapel Hill by Bar Sprunt, Wee Thompson, Owen Ravenel, and Sam Eaton. Among those seen at the Junior-Senior dance at W. C. U. N. C. Saturday night were Peyton Montgomery, Mack Holland, Tom Downie, Reggie Harris, Scotty McLeod, Charlie Rives, and M. B. Wallace. Lynchburg’s brass band met a party of Davidsonians at the station there Saturday afternoon and, from all reports, we believe that Bob Smith came off with the Key to the City. Randolph-Macon is the attraction.

Miscellaneous
To the FERA boys: The world may owe you a living, but you don’t owe us a serenade. It’s not hard to believe that somebody owes you a singing lesson, too. And there’s one boy in Georgia who studies in the afternoon!

Eats and Speeches
Bouquets and scallions were tossed and exchanged in a verbal tiff at the banquet given for the editorial and business staffs of the Davidsonian last Friday in Chambers. It was a swell banquet, and some of the speeches weren't so bad either. All students who are connected in any way with the publication of this paper were present, and a meal which testified to the financial solvency of the publication was served to about fifty hungry lads. Ye sports editor should throw some orchids to Casali, Johnson, Weeks, Wadsworth, Pratt-Thomas; and a May Day basket full to Professor Fleagle, who spoke most entertainingly at the banquet. Present also at the banquet were the present and future editors of the YOWL, a magazine devoted to the publication of pseudo-humor, mistaken wit, and some cartoons. The question was raised (I don’t think they ever got it down) as to whether the Davidsonian inadvertently contains more real humor in its columns than the YOWL does intentionally. The only difference seems to be that the YOWL is labeled HUMOROUS, and the Davidsonian is not even labeled.

Miscellaneous Again
Whoever absconded with the sheriff's wireless set while the baseball team was on a weekend trip had better return it to Jule pretty soon; the sheriff has a stud council posse and is hot on the trail of the miscreants.

ROATSEY
The annual federal inspection of the local R. O. T. C. unit reflected much credit on the Davidson ROTC instructors, the student officers, and the frosh and soph underlings as well. Asked where the balance of his rifle was, David Sellars cracks, “This is all they gave me, sir.” And some Mann dropped his rifle during the parade; he just wanted everybody to know he could do it without blushing. The inspecting officers asked Professor Morrow how many years he had taken R. O. T. C, and Pros comes back, “69257340,” giving his rifle number. Incredible. It was really a good inspection, though. Congratulations (no orchids left) to Major Bill Brown and the boys.

Pedantic
A brief sojourn in the Queen City has proved to innumerable Davidson scholars to be an efficacious remedy for spasmodic caprices of nostalgic despondency. Try it!

Melodrama
Those who saw a certain stage show in Charlotte several weeks ago will agree that I am Zachary Wright when I say that it was a complete Sugg-in; every time I see a show like that, I feel like Eaton peanuts, and throwing the hulls at the players. The melodramatic presentation commenced with the hero, who was estranged from his girl, Ton, going Woodward to Hunter. He was going to try to reconcile himself with Ton. Running swiftly through a Marsh, he Boggs up in the Smyre and begins to Yelverton. Ton lived in a Stuckey house on a nearby Hill, and she thought his squawking was a lot of Huie, so she simply said that she wished he would Hurst up, and leave her alone with her thoughts. At last the hero extricated himself from the muck, in the doing of which he nearly Brock his leg; however, he was out and on his way to the house when the Winn started blowing, and he thought he would Frieze before he got there. He decides to Wauchope the front steps and say “Howie you feeling?” just as if nothing had happened. Ton comes down the stairs and asks in an indignant tone, “Wauda you doing here?” But when she sees the Mickley condition her lover is in, she repents, forgives, and takes him in the kitchen where our hero receives a hearty meal of Wehners, Dill pickles, White bread, lemon Cake, boiled Rice, Spanish Mackerel, and something else which I can’t remember. He really didn’t need any more, for he was already beginning to Reel. It’s odd how fast food goes Downie a man’s Gullet. The story ends as the lovers Mack up, kiss each other, and then, facing the audience, they bow together as the old organ plays, “I Snead Thee Every Hour.” As I said at the beginning, it was a deplorable performance—reminding one of the missing Link; and all that sort of Duff.

Radio Log
Roosevelt: “President Roosevelt will be heard Thursday afternoon, NBC, CBS, at 4 o'clock in an address of acceptance of the William Jennings Bryan Memorial, which is a gift from the Bryan Association, headed by Josephus Daniels.

Insull: The network broadcasters hope to microphone an account of Samuel Insull’s arrival in this country on May 9, following his extended exile abroad. They will invite Mr. Insull to broadcast.