THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 28, 1934

FOUNDERS’ DAY APRIL 12

ALUMNI NEWS

EDITOR—GRIER MARTIN
ASSISTANT—JACK HELLINGER

FOUNDERS DAY WILL BE OBSERVED ON APRIL 12

Ninety-seventh Anniversary of Founding of Davidson to Be Celebrated at College and in Alumni Chapters

PROMINENT SPEAKER

Radio Program to Be Broadcast Over Station WBT, Charlotte

The ninety-seventh anniversary of the founding of Davidson College will be celebrated on April 12, following the action taken by the trustees at their semi-annual meeting last week. This will be the first official Founders’ Day ever observed by Davidson, and the college is following the custom of other leading colleges and universities in the country in having this annual observation. The date has been set for the 12th since this is the most convenient date near April 7th, which was the date of the laying of the cornerstone of the first building at Davidson in 1837.

Plans for the celebration of the anniversary are not yet complete, but a complete program of observance at the college will be arranged for that day, with a prominent speaker selected from the Alumni Association to make the address. Another feature on the program will be a musical program by the college music department. That night a radio program will be broadcast from Station WBT in Charlotte, which will be listened to by the alumni clubs which will be meeting.

Alumni chapters all over the country will hold their regular annual meeting on that night, and the chapters which are near enough to Davidson will have speakers sent from the college to address them. They will listen to the radio broadcast from Charlotte. The centennial program which was adopted at the meeting of the trustees will be announced at that time to the alumni and to the public. Davidson will be one hundred years old in 1937, and a program to be achieved by that time was passed by the board at its meeting last week.

Officers of all the Davidson alumni chapters have been written and urged to have meetings of their chapters on the night of April 12. An alumni magazine will be published around the first of April, and will be sent to all the alumni. This magazine will announce the definite plans that have been made for meetings, and will inform the alumni where the meetings will be held. It is expected that the observance of Founders’ Day will become an annual event at Davidson. The celebration of the centennial in 1937 will include a large program.

Professor E. A. Beaty Addresses Winthrop “Y”

Professor E. A. Beaty completed a series of talks Saturday at Winthrop College on legal, economic, and world questions. Beaty was one of the three speakers on the student world conference sponsored by the Y. W. C. A. A talk was presented Saturday morning concerning religion and morals at the present time. This was followed by a speech on religion and everyday vocation Saturday afternoon. The series of talks was brought to a close Sunday afternoon with a closing address on “The New World Pattern in Religion.” As reported by Professor Beaty, the speeches were well attended and much interest was shown throughout the period devoted to these talks.

DAVIDSON DEBATERS RETURN FROM TOUR

(Continued from page 1)

...include decision debates at three colleges. The teams to be met are the University of the South at Sewanee, Tenn., the University of Kentucky at Lexington, and Centre College at Danville, Ky. These debates will be held on March 5th, 7th, and 9th, respectively.

Leaving on March 14th, John Fitzgerald and Ed Humphrey will represent Davidson on a trip through the Northern and Eastern States. This team will uphold the negative side of the same query. The itinerary of the Northern team has not yet been completed, but will be published in the near future.

The results of the Southern trip debates were not available at the time of publication, but will be published in next week’s issue.

Marriages

'30 Dr. Robert Nathaniel Hunt and Miss Helen Kale were married February 18th at Lexington. Immediately after the ceremony, Dr. and Mrs. Hunt left for a bridal trip to Washington. They will be at home in Lexington, where Dr. Hunt...is a practicing dentist.

Births
Rev. and Mrs. Ed. S. Currie announce the birth of a daughter, Anne Randolph Currie, on December 11, 1933, at Haichow Ku, China.

Mr. and Mrs. T. J. Mitchell announce the birth of a daughter, Julia Walker.

WITH THE ALUMNI

Rev. Samuel Meek Rankin, of Greensboro, N. C., author of “The Rankin and Wharton Families and Their Genealogy,” has written another book dealing with the history of the Buffalo Presbyterian Church of Greensboro. This book will soon be published.

Rev. L. A. McLaurin made the principal address at the Founders’ Day exercises at Presbyterian Junior College at Maxton. It was the fifth anniversary of the founding of the college.

There is a movement on foot in Raleigh to call Dr. Ben Lacy, president of Union Theological Seminary, to fill the pastorate of the First Presbyterian Church recently left vacant by the death of Rev. W. McC. White, D.D., on February 13, 1934, at Burlington, North Carolina. Dr. Lacy is the son-in-law of the late Dr. White and a former member of that congregation.

The Tabb Street Presbyterian Church, Petersburg, Va., commemorated the tenth anniversary of her pastor with a reception given by the church to Dr. and Mrs. J. Edwin Hemphill on Friday evening, February 2nd. The church has made remarkable progress during Dr. Hemphill’s pastorate in which 611 members have been received into this church. On August 6, 1933, ninety-three of the members were organized into the Woodlawn Church, which assumed self-support from that date. The present membership is 712.

Dr. R. E. Rhyne was re-elected county physician of Gaston County at the County Board of Health.

Dr. Roscoe McMillan of Red Springs, and present governor of Rotary in the Western District, has recently settled the division of Rotary in North Carolina concerning the election of a new governor.

Mayor George W. Coan, Jr., of Winston-Salem, recently announced that the CWA employment lists will not be cut in Winston-Salem as drastically as indicated. Mayor Coan said he could obtain no definite figures but that he had been assured the CWA would try to prevent suffering from unemployment in the larger cities in the state.

Dr. DeWitt Kluttz, of Washington, was one of the two councillors from the Carolinas that attended the Tri-State Medical Association meeting held at Charlottesville, Va., February 12th through the 14th.

Hugh M. McArn, automobile dealer, town commissioner and chairman of Scotland Board of Elections, was installed recently as postmaster at Laurinburg. He is a World War veteran.

At a called session of Fayetteville Presbytery held at Raeford, Rev. W. M. McLeod, a native of Hoke County, for several years now pastor of Community Church, Pinehurst, was dismissed from the Presbytery to accept a call to the First Church, Nashville, Tennessee.

Dr. E. S. Faison, of Charlotte, was recently accepted as a member of the Tri-State Medical Association.

This picture tells better than words the merit of your Lucky Strike. Luckies use only the center leaves, not the top leaves, because those are under-developed—not ripe. Not the bottom leaves, because those are inferior in quality—they grow close to the ground and are tough, coarse and always sandy. The center leaves are the mildest leaves, the finest in quality. These center leaves are cut into long, even strands and are fully packed into each and every Lucky—giving you a cigarette that is always round, firm, completely filled—no loose ends. Is it any wonder that Luckies are so truly mild and smooth? And in addition, you know, “It’s toasted”—for throat protection, for finer taste.

Lucky Strike presents the Metropolitan Opera Company Saturday at 1:50 P.M., Eastern Standard Time, over Red and Blue Networks of NBC. Lucky Strike will broadcast the Metropolitan Opera Company of New York in the complete opera, “Lucia di Lammermoor.”

Luckies—NOT the top leaves—they’re under-developed—they are harsh!
1934, The American Tobacco Company
Only the Center Leaves
The Cream of the Crop
NOT the bottom leaves—they’re inferior in quality—coarse and always sandy!