THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 21, 1934

Officers Installed In Meeting of Eu
Two Talks Are Given on Program Following the Inauguration

BANKS IS PRESIDENT
Douglas, Ross, and Humphrey Are Other Officers

The newly-elected officers of the Eumenean Literary Society, Richard Banks, president; J. M. Douglas, vice-president; J. H. Ross, secretary, and
E. J. Humphrey, critic, were installed at the regular meeting of the society Tuesday night. Banks, in his inaugural talk,
pledged the new administration to a continuance of the excellent work done the first term. The literary program following the
installation consisted of a talk by J. D. Allen on “The Art of Healing,” and a resume of current events
by E. S. Bivens. Allen, in his talk, gave a history of medicine beginning at pre-ancient times and coming to
the present day. The advantages and difficulties of becoming a doctor all came under his address, which closed with William
Allen Pusey’s remark “that doubtless God could have made a better man than a good doctor, but doubtless He never
did.” Bivens, in his resume of the current events of the week, discussed particularly the turn of events in Austria.
Austria is suffering from both depression and Hitler, said Bivens, enough to trouble any country.

Major John T. Rhett Entertains Officers

Major John T. Rhett entertained at his home Tuesday evening for the cadet officers of the Davidson R.O.T.C. battalion. All
cadet officers, numbering about twenty-five, were present. There were also several girls from Davidson present. The guests assembled at the
Rhett home at 8 o'clock, refreshments being served later in the evening. Major Rhett entertained in the same manner for
the cadet officers last year.

Dr. Bessie C. Randolph Heads Hollins College
President MacCracken of Vassar to Speak at Installation

The installation of its third president in nearly a century will mark the celebration of Founders’ Day at Hollins College
on February 21, when Dr. Bessie Carter Randolph, a distinguished graduate, will be formally inaugurated in the presence of presidents
and other representatives of many colleges and universities throughout the country. Miss Randolph, a native of Virginia, received her A.B.
degree from Hollins in 1912 and her M.A. from Radcliffe in 1916, subsequently teaching history and government at Hollins and
at Randolph-Macon Woman's College in Lynchburg. In 1924-26 she was a Carnegie Fellow in International Law at Radcliffe, receiving her
Ph.D. degree there in 1926. She then became head of the newly-created department of political science at the Florida State
College for Women at Tallahassee in 1926, and is widely known in her field. The speech of President Henry N.
MacCracken of Vassar, and Miss Randolph’s inaugural address, will be the main parts of the installation program.

First Act of “Candida” Finished by Masquers
Coaches Wood and Prof. Erwin Express Satisfaction of Play

D. Wills Hollingsworth, president of the Red and Black Masquers, expressed the opinion early this week that the society’s coming
production, “Candida,” is progressing unusually well. Coached by G. R. Wood and Prof. E. J. Erwin, the players have completed
the first act in the past week and are well into the second one. In the completed act, Marchbanks, the
young, embryonic, poetic lover, played by W. F. Goodykoontz, achieves a moral and mental victory over Morell, the real, brutish
husband, depicted by D. W. Hollingsworth, in their clash over Candida, played by Mrs. W. P. Cumming. The second act
is a rather discursive one, in which the audience and the characters all become acquainted with each other, and a
good deal of comedy is injected into the production by the cockney character, Burgess, played by Nate Wauda.

FRATERNITIES INITIATE LARGE NUMBER OF MEN
(Continued from page 1)

Daniel J. Stowe, Belmont. Sophomores: Hoxie H. Thompson, Houston, Texas. Freshmen: Richard A. Brock, Chattanooga, Tenn.; J. Orlando Branton, Greenville,
Miss.; Arthur O. Cooke, Greensboro; Howard T. Dyer, Greenville, Miss.; Clarence E. Leake, Greensboro; H. Howell Overton, Greensboro; Robert B.
Stewart, Montgomery, Ala.; Harold G. Sugg, Greenville; F. Eugene Vogler, Winston-Salem.

Beta Theta Pi held its formal initiation on Saturday night, February 17, at its house. It was followed by a
banquet. The initiates follow: Juniors: Robert N. Atwater, Burlington. Sophomores: Elliot R. Motley, Hannibal, Mo. Freshmen: Wilbur S. Edwards, Charlotte;
Robert H. Johnston, Lebanon, Ky.; William G. McCoy, Bartow, Fla.; Baxter F. McLendon, Bennettsville, S.C.; David R. Sellars, Burlington; John
C. Winn, Greenville, South Carolina.

Kappa Sigma began its initiation Tuesday night and will conclude it tonight. The initiates are as follows: Sophomores: Howard Summerell,
Greenville. Freshmen: Wade H. Boggs, Atlanta, Ga.; Carl I. Carlson, Greensboro; James W. Dickson, Gettysburg, Pa.; Edward S. Finley, North
Wilkesboro; John G. Gaw, Greensboro; William H. Higgins, Richmond, Va.; William P. Hill, Richmond, Va.; Biscoe R. Howell, Tarboro; Harry
L. Kuykendall, Greensboro; Bancroft F. Moseley, Greenville; George Norfleet, Winston-Salem; Dermot Shemwell, Albany, Ga.; Thomas F. Thompson, Gastonia.

The fraternities not included in this list have not yet had their formal initiations.

FALL TERM HONOR ROLL IS ANNOUNCED
(Continued from page 1)

lins, Va., 3.045; G. H. Brown, of River Edge, N.J., 3.000. Sophomores: J. W. Hassell, Jr., of Seguin, Texas, 3.500;
M. J. Barnett, of Meridian, Miss., 3.333; A. G. Brenizer, of Charlotte, 3.071. Freshmen: K. M. Scott, of Tsinanfu, China,
3.236; J. D. Allen, of Louisville, Ky., 3.150; R. H. Patterson, of Trenton, Tenn., 3.150; J. C. Winn, of Greenville,
S.C., 3.078; J. G. Gaw, of Greensboro, 3.000; H. G. Sugg, of Greenville, 3.000.

JUNIORS ANNOUNCE PLANS FOR CLASS FESTIVITIES
(Continued from page 1)

Music will be furnished by Johnny Long and his Duke Collegians from Duke University. This orchestra has played for college
dances in this state and in adjoining states. Several weeks ago it played for the N.C.State Mid-Winters, and has also
recently played at Washington and Lee and at the University of North Carolina. In the latter part of this month,
they will fill an engagement at Randolph-Macon, where they will play for the Mid-Winter dances. Special added attractions are being
planned for the Friday night dance and will be announced to the student body later.

HISTORIC PLACES VISITED BY DR. C. E. MACARTNEY
(Continued from page 1)

Ney was supposed to have been executed at Paris after the fall of Napoleon; but, as the records of the
execution had flaws, most historians think he escaped to Charleston, S. C. He was soon recognized there by some French
inhabitants and came to Mecklenburg County. Here the mysterious man prepared the Davidson College seal and motto and also prepared
many students for this college.

Another place Dr. McCartney visited was Thyatira, in Rowan County, which had its first pastor, the Reverend McCorkle, the founder
of the classical school of Zion Parnassus and one of the founders of the University of North Carolina. Dr. McCartney
visited many cemeteries and took notes on many strange epitaphs. He has found much material for sermons by his keen
observation of ancient things and added much interesting material from his trips around Davidson.

REGISTRAR RELEASES SENIOR CLASS GRADES.
(Continued from page 1)

L. Moore, Pendleton, S. C.; S. M. Nickey, Memphis, Tenn.; A. A. Dofflemeyer, Elkton, Va.; F. L. Mock, Lexington; J.
H. Robbins, Chester, S. C.; M. Armistead, Weldon; A. B. McLean, Aberdeen; R. E. Woodside, Statesville; T. H. McCallie, Chattanooga,
Tenn.; H. R. Pratt-Thomas, Wedgefield, S. C.; W. A. Kirkland, Durham; W. T. Johnson, Charlotte; A. W. Colwell, Clinton; Ellis
Oakes, Shell Creek, Tenn.; J. S. Steele, Lafayette, Ga.; J. S. Drake, Orange, Texas, and J. T. Drake, Port Gibson,
Miss.

With the Social Fraternities

Eight men were formally initiated by the Betas last Saturday night. A banquet was held after the initiation, with the
following alumni present: W. F. Hall, H. B. Simpson, John Smith, and James Winn.

The Pikas have announced the pledging of Sherrill of the Freshman class on February 14. New furniture has been purchased
for the Pika Jarney house.

The K. A. formal initiation was brought to a close last Friday night when Worth Sprunt served as the model
initiate. Eight other men were taken in. Pete Dulin and Dr. Thomas Sparrow were among the alumni present.

The Phi Gams initiated fourteen men in the Dome Room of Chambers Building last Saturday afternoon. The annual Pig Dinner
was held Saturday night at the S & W Cafeteria in Charlotte, John Foster, of the class of '28, being
the toastmaster. Alumni in attendance were Dr. W. P. Cumming and Dr. T. W. Lingle of the Davidson faculty, and
Dr. William Allen, of Charlotte.

Thursday night the Pi Kappa Phis took in thirteen new members. Last Sunday night they entertained informally at their house,
those present including Misses Margaret Gilliam, Helen and Emma Renn Jones, Eleanor Mathewson, and Betty Simmons, of Charlotte, and Misses
Margaret McKnight and Mary Withers of Davidson.

Golf Course to Have Several Changes Made

Superintendent of Grounds F. D. Hobart announced this week that the arrangement of the golf course will be altered in
order to make room for two new fairways. Numbers two and three holes will be moved so that the third
and fourth holes will be across the Wilson Road. This change eliminates a bad approach and will make this one
of the best places of play on the entire course. The golf committee also plans to move the eighth hole
north, to the bottom of the hill. This change is made so that it will allow a longer and better
shot. The committee hopes to have this project completed by spring and estimates that the entire job will cost approximately
four hundred dollars.

Omega Phi Alpha Frat. To Meet Friday Night

Omega Phi Alpha, honorary philosophy and psychology fraternity, will meet in the parlor of Watts Hall at 7:00 p.m. Friday,
February 23. At that time, the fraternity will vote upon the students suggested for membership in the society. Jack Williams,
president of the group, announces that Dean Arps, of the University of Ohio, has written him that he will be
unable to speak here to the society this year as was planned, but either Dr. Dashiell or Dr. Bagby, both
of the University of North Carolina, will speak sometime this spring on some psychological subject, according to President Williams.

RABBIT SPOILS SOCCER GAME

A rabbit broke up a soccer game between students here last week. Underclassmen were engaged in the sport which has
just been introduced in the Davidson athletic program, when suddenly a rabbit appeared on the sidelines. The soccer game resulted
in a hare chase.

Always the Finest Tobacco

Direct from the Metropolitan Opera House at 1:45 P.M., Eastern Standard Time, over Red and Blue Networks of NBC, LUCKY
STRIKE will broadcast the Metropolitan Opera Company of New York in the complete Opera, "Tannhauser," Saturday, 1934.

The and only the Center Leaves ...ONE REASON why Luckies taste better, smoother

In Turkey too, only the finest tobaccos are selected for Lucky Strike—the mildest leaves, the most delicate, the most aromatic.
Lucky Strike is the world’s largest user of fine Turkish tobaccos. Then these tender, delicate Turkish leaves are blended with
choice tobaccos from our own Southland—to make your Lucky Strike a cigarette that is fully packed—so round, so firm—free from
loose ends. That’s why Luckies taste better, smoother. "It’s toasted"—for throat protection—for finer taste.

NOT the top leaves—they’re underdeveloped—they are harsh!

The Cream of the Crop
"The tenderest, mildest, smoothest tobacco"

NOT the bottom leaves—they’re inferior in quality—coarse and always sandy!
