THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 14, 1934

SIGMA PI SIGMA HOMECOMING HIGHLIGHTS

Y.M.C.A. HEAR CONCERT BY BAND

GREEK NEWS

Chambers Auditorium Is Scene Of Saturday Morning Recital

Fraternity Court was the center of much activity on the Davidson campus over the past weekend, it being Homecoming at the college. Many of the lodges gave banquets, breakfasts, dinners, and other varied social functions which were enjoyed by many visiting girls and alumni brothers of the various fraternities as well.

Beta Theta Pi: A banquet held at the S. & W. Cafeteria in Charlotte before the dance of Saturday night was enjoyed by Phi Alpha chapter members and their guests, numbering fifty in all. Prominent among the gathering were Dr. and Mrs. Lingle, and alumni brothers Jim Pinkney, Johnny Smith, Bill Douglas, along with many others.

Kappa Alpha: Sigma chapter of Kappa Alpha had an intermission party attended by around forty people. The party was held Friday night. Among the alumni present over the weekend were Ed Hancock, Bud Raker, Taylor Marion, Harry Moffett, Lanier Pratt, Ty Hooke McCallie, R. L. McCallie, Bill Walser, Pete Dulin, J. H. Robbins, W. C. Cannon, and E. L. Whitton.

Kappa Sigma: The Delta chapter of Kappa Sigma enjoyed a feed in the house Sunday night at which were present a few guests in addition to the brothers. Many alumni visited over the weekend, including Ed Kuykendall, Lug Davis, Buddy Gardner, and Owen Ravanel.

Phi Delta Theta: Gamma chapter held a feed in the house Sunday night, a few invited guests attending in addition to the brothers. A few of the alumni visiting over the weekend were Howard McPhail, George McClennaghan, John O'Keefe, Jim White, Madison Armistead, John Lafferty, and others. A number of brothers from the Carolina chapter were present as well.

Phi Gamma Delta: Many members of the Delta Kappa chapter enjoyed a feed given at the house Sunday night. After the Saturday night dance, a breakfast was given at Tenners' Restaurant in Charlotte. A number of the alumni were present at various times over the weekend, among whom were John Foster, Bruce Suggs, Johnny Creech, Tommy Wilson, and others. Members of the Carolina chapter were also visiting. Many will be interested in the fact that Coleman Branton will return to school next semester.

Pi Kappa Phi: The Pi Kappas enjoyed a buffet supper after the dance of Saturday night at Mrs. Gaffney's Boarding House in Davidson. Alumni Brothers Brad McLean, Boggs Corbin, Albert Caldwell, John Boyd, Chink Thompson, and others visited the chapter over the weekend.

Pi Kappa Alpha: Beta chapter gave a midnight supper at the Oriental in Charlotte after the Saturday night dance. Among the alumni with the chapter over the weekend were John Howard, Caldwell Roane, Robert Morrow, and George Sherrod. The Pikas are glad to announce that they pledged William Franklin Pierce the past week.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon: The alumni of Theta chapter were feted after the football game at the fraternity house with a reception. Among the alumni present were Arthur Ross, Nab Armfield, Odi Hawkins, and Bill Yancey. Also visiting were brothers from Carolina.

Sigma Phi Epsilon: Among the alumni brothers visiting the chapter over the weekend were Casali, Hugh Evans, and others.

Alumni From Many Points Are Attracted

The Davidson College Band, under the direction of Mr. James Christian Pfohl, gave an informal concert to the nearly three hundred alumni and friends of Davidson who assembled in Chambers Auditorium at eleven-thirty last Saturday morning. Given in connection with the Homecoming Day exercises, the program contained six numbers, including the difficult William Tell Overture which is seldom found in the repertoire of a college band.

Creech And Willis Taken Into Honorary Physics Fraternity In Fall Ceremony

The Alpha chapter of the Sigma Pi Sigma at its fall ceremony last Monday night initiated W. P. Creech and J. G. Willis into membership. These men for two years or more have shown considerable interest and made excellent grades in Physics. It is well known to all thinkers that science moves forward rapidly and it is difficult for one in his chosen field to keep pace with the development. Sigma Pi Sigma, in bringing together faculty and students, not only encourages research but also aids those in learning of the developments in Physics. From time immemorial, groups of students of common interests have developed and kept alive the things that are our inheritance today. The growth of Sigma Pi Sigma in thirteen years and the enthusiasm shown from the chapters speaks of its importance and success. In the thirty-eight chapters scattered over the United States and into the Philippines, one finds a group of students and faculty meeting in a common cause to report on things that have impressed them concerning recent developments.

Sigma Pi Sigma as a national organization has recently received more recognition in initiating as honorary members most of the outstanding physicists of our country and several from the European countries. The most recent honorary members are: Dr. J. W. Beams, of the University of Virginia, and Dr. G. W. Stewart, of the University of Iowa. Dr. Beams was a National Research Fellow for four years and served as research director at Yale University and is now Professor of Research at the University of Virginia. Dr. Beams, with his electron guns and ultra-centrifuge, has attracted much attention in the field of Physics. Dr. Stewart is an author and outstanding scholar and has been recognized and honored by all the Physical societies of America. Rather recently, Sigma Pi Sigma was accepted as a member of the Institute of Physics. This institute consists of all the scientific organizations of America.

Two outstanding things resulted from the third national convention recently held at Purdue University. These are that the name was changed from that of National Fraternity to that of National Society, and that all secrecy was excluded from the ritual. The first was in keeping with other important and older organizations such as The Royal Optical Society and The Physical Society. The delegation and the officials felt that the spirit of science through the ages has been that of giving to the public its findings without any reservations. So, in order that Sigma Pi Sigma may be in step with this spirit, it too, makes known its aims, ideals, and form of ritual.

Sigma Pi Sigma publishes twice a year a magazine which contains the records and reports of interest from the different chapters. On the cover of one of these magazines is a picture of Chambers Building and within the magazine other interesting pictures of Davidson, such as the home of Dr. J. M. Douglas, Temporary Building, and pictures of the founders.

The latest additions to the society are the Alpha-Beta chapter at Syracuse University; the Alpha-Gamma chapter at Oregon State University; and the Alpha-Delta chapter at the University of Denver. Dr. White in his report to the convention states that several chapters will be installed during the school year. Last year there were one thousand, three hundred and seventy-three active members and there are now about six thousand wearers of the key.

Compassing the Campus (Continued from Page 2)

MORE PERSIFLAGE

George Norfleet being very proud of his Hilda Penn... The same lass keeping him waiting... The S. P. E. house party out at Rollins’ House Saturday eve... David Sellers causing the bell hops at the Hotel Charlotte a bit of trouble... The new YOWL, the most popular issue that has been published in recent years... Charlie Harris suddenly announces a trip to Atlanta to avert romantic difficulties... Section F on the mezzanine floor of the hotel, Saturday night... A gathering place for campus nobles Baxter Moore with Cleve Wharton in a crowded lift... John

The above pictures show two interesting scenes of the Homecoming weekend. The upper of these two pictures was taken just before the start of the second half of the Davidson-Carolina game. The Davidson team with its coaches is in the foreground, while in the background the band, led by Julian Helms twirling two batons, may be seen. The lower is a picture of the bonfire which closed the pep meeting Friday night.

AT THE LOCAL THEATRE

Thursday, Nov. 15 DESIRABLE

This is another picture in which the rising young star, Jean Muir, appears. It is about the love affairs of the daughter of an actress. Verree Teasdale as the actress gives a very fine performance. The cast includes Jean Muir, George Brent, and Verree Teasdale.

Friday, Nov. 16 THE FIREBIRD

The stage production ofThis play has been a big success on the continents. It has been reported that the screen production is just as good. The cast includes Helen Teasdale, Lionel Atwill, Ricardo Cortez, and Anita Louise.

Saturday, Nov. 17
CHARLIE CHAN IN LONDON
Charlie Chan, that super detective, is again in another crime episode. It is very mysterious as well as entertaining. The cast includes Warner Oland, Raymond Milland, and Mona Barrie.

Monday, Nov. 19
THE FIGHTING KID
James Cagney is the lead in this picture. It has the usual punch and zest of his pictures. He is supported by Allen Jenkins and Patricia Ellis.

Tuesday, Nov. 20
LIMEHOUSE BLUES
With George Raft, Jean Parker, and Anna May Wong.

1933: Leland McKeithen, Aberdeen, N.C.; Don R. Mower, Charlotte, N.C.; John Belk Stevens, Winston-Salem, N.C.; John E. Boyd, Charlotte, N.C.; Earle Bradsher, Burlington, N.C.; A. Hancock, Bluefield, W.Va.; J. McClung, Bluefield, W.Va.; N.C. Creswell.

George hunting was unhampered by Tar Heel efforts, while several of Don Jackson's punts were either partially or completely blocked. The Tar Heel satellite got off one beautiful spiral in the opening quarter which traveled about seventy-five yards, but Carolina men being offside on the play caused it to be brought back. Davidson fought bravely, but the Tar Heels had too much power for the Presbyterians.

The line-ups:
N. Car. (12) Pos Davidson (2)
Buck L.E. Morgan
Tatum L.T. Siewers
Barclay L.G. D. Johnson
Daniel Center Burns
Kahn R.G. Hand
Evins R.T. B. Johnson
Montgomery Q.B. Windham
Snyder L.H. Mackorell
Wingfield R.H. Jackson
Hutchins F.B. Yarborough

Score by periods:
North Carolina 6 6 0 0—12
Davidson 0 2 0 0—2

North Carolina scoring: Touchdowns, Hutchins and Jackson.
Davidson scoring: Safety (Jackson tackled behind goal by Siewers).

Substitutions:
Davidson: ends—Armfield, Cathey; guards—Fort, Potter; center—Cathey, John Lee; Henry, Joe Lee; backs—Pittman and Verble.
Carolina: end—Childers; tackles—Ray, Trimpey; guards—Jaycee, Pendergraft; centers—Gardner, Kanner; backs—Cooner, McCachren, Dashiell, Martin.

As Felix Sees ’Em (Continued from Page 4)
The Carolina players fit too tightly for the Wildcats to be able to hold on to them when they attempted to stop one of the fast-moving Tar Heel backs. Maybe Davidson would have won if Coach Snavely’s charges had worn breeches that were too large for them.

V.M.I. sends its Flying Squadron to the Wildcats’ lair for the seventeenth meeting between Davidson and the Virginia cadets. In sixteen previous battles, each team has won eight games, so there will be a little more at stake than the loss of this particular game, but it will also break a tie for all-time relations between the two teams. Davidson should take this contest by at least two touchdowns, but we won’t promise even an extra point more than that.

The annual ping-pong tournament is to be held this week, and prospective contestants are requested to sign the list at the “Y.” Next Sunday's vespers will be a musical service at which all the college musical organizations will perform.

Ten New Members Are Initiated By Masquers
Last Wednesday evening at the Pi Alpha house, the Red and Black Masquers formally initiated the following: B.A. Brown, E.L. Donigan, W.S. Edwards, W.S. Frieze, W.D. Herring, W. Shu-ford, J.H. Washburn, and W.H. Woodward. These ten were upperclassmen, who were initiated at an impressive ceremony. After the formalities, a feed was held which Professor and Mrs. E.J. Erwin attended. At the meeting, it was announced that a three-act mystery play entitled THREE TAPS AT TWELVE is to be given in the near future. Washburn, Scott, and Edwards were pledged in acknowledgment for their competent work in A NIGHT AT AN INN, the others for their exceptional work on the set of the above-mentioned play. There will probably be another initiation in the late spring.

Hood Addresses Group (Continued from Page 1)
The committee recommended that the annual convention be held next year rather than spend a few hours working on reports as they have done previously. Three emeritus college presidents were elected to lifetime membership as conference members. Several of the Conference committees were ordered consolidated to avoid duplication of duties. Dr. J.M. McConnell, dean of faculty and Professor of History, was chosen to act as chairman of the new athletic committee. Members to act on committees will be appointed by the executive committee sometime in the near future. Dean E.L. Cloyd, of North Carolina State College, was elected president. Dr. Hood of Davidson, Dr. Omwake of Catawba College, was chosen vice-president, and Dr. Nathan W. Walker was re-elected executive secretary and treasurer. Dr. Hood was selected to act on the committee. The group, composed primarily of faculty members of the leading colleges and junior institutions in this State, attended the conference. The State Department of Education is also represented at these yearly conventions. The meeting of the College Conference members was unusually significant in view of the results revealed from the studies of the various committees during the past year, dealing with several phases of education as related to the new economic and social conditions now prevailing.

Fillmore’s Men of Ohio was the opening number. Moreland Cunningham then gave Tramp! Tramp! Tramp! by Goldman as a cornet solo. This proved to be one of the most popular features of the program. The band followed with Boyey March by Meachem, the Colonel of Alford, and American Patrol by Meacham. Rossini’s famous William Tell Overture came next, receiving quite an ovation; for as one Carolina bandmaster is quoted as saying: “No band in the state can play it.” Mr. J.C. Harper, Davidson alumnus and director of the Lenoir High School Band, then took the baton and conducted the playing of the final number, Davidson.

Davidson Grads Are Prominent (Continued from Page 1)
Jack McKinnon, Student Body President at the Union Theological Seminary, was president of the senior class of 1931-32 at Davidson. He was prominent in Y.M.C.A. work and belonged to the Y.M.C.A. cabinet. He was a member of Seabbard and Blade, O.D.K., and other honorary fraternities. McKinnon was also a member of the Sigma Alpha Epsilon, social fraternity.

Harry Moffett, son of Dr. Moffett of Davidson, received his diploma in 1932 at Elise Academy and taught one year before entering the Seminary to take up ministerial work. While at Davidson, Moffett was active in all Christian activities.

Christian Expresses Views On Music (Continued from Page 1)
“The college audiences are no different unless the students are unusually well educated in music. In this case, the audience is naturally more appreciative.”

“How do you compare your European study with your American study?” Mr. Christian thought European study was not better than American study, as might be thought. “Naturally, the atmosphere and attitude are different from those of this country. The organs themselves are poorer than our organs. The French instruments have been improved very little over those of the past, but the German organs are more modern.”

Feeling by now that Mr. Christian had been bombarded quite enough by my questions, I thanked him and prepared to leave. At the door, the famous organist smiled and said with a twinkle in his eye, “Don't you think that I should be paid for this?”

Duke UNIVERSITY SCHOOL OF MEDICINE
DURHAM, N.C.
Four terms of eleven weeks are given each year. These may be taken consecutively (graduation in three years) or three terms may be taken each year (graduation in four years). Entrance requirements are intelligence and application, and at least two years of college work, including the subjects required for Grade A Medical Schools. Catalogs and application forms may be obtained from the Dean.

1931: J.H. Hall, Wilmington, N.C.; W.S. Neal, Jr., Burlington, N.C.; W. Lanier Pratt, Mt. Berry, Ga.; Bradley McLean, Burlington, N.C.; J.H. Fitzgerald, Crewe, Va.; B.O. Ravenel, Charleston, S.C.; Odi Casali, Welch, W.Va.; R.E. Woodside, Troutman, N.C.; John G. O'Keefe, Bluefield, W.Va.

1932: Samuel S. Wiley, Salisbury, N.C.; J. McConnell, Durham, N.C.; W. Howard, Atlanta, Ga.

YOU’LL BE ONERY CALLING CARDS PROGRAMS
Fine Printing
QUEEN CITY PRINTING CO
1143 E. FOURTH ST. CHARLOTTE, N.C.
Printers of THE DAVIDSONIAN, and the DAVIDSON COLLEGE ALUMNI JOURNAL

Gulf Gas and Oil
P.H. HANES KNITTING COMPANY
WINSTON-SALEM, N.C.