THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 7, 1934

The Davidsonian

FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

Member of Associated Collegiate Press

1933 (COVERAGE) 1934

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

Printed by the STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: Ten cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate year. Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879.

Articles for publication must be in the hands of Managing Editors by 4:00 o'clock P.M., Monday. Letters to the Editor are invited, but must be signed.

EDITORIAL STAFF
G. L. GULLETTE................. Managing Editor
E. F. McPHAIL.................... Associate Editor
B. L. ROSS......................... News Editor
K. D. WEEKS..................... Sports Editor
JACK HELLINGER............. Alumni Editor
RAWLING PRATT-THOMAS... Editorial Writer
H. G. HUNTER.................... Exchange Editor
J. B. BAILEY....................... Feature Editor
S. K. EATON....................... Feature Editor
C. S. McCALL...................... Feature Editor
L. W. CLARDY.................... Assistant Editor
A. F. SCHENCK.................. Assistant Editor
W. M. THOMPSON............. Assistant Editor
JACK WILLIAMS, JR........... Assistant Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
G. L. GREEN....................... Business Manager
W. L. SPRUNT.................... Assistant Business Manager
R. TAYLOR......................... Assistant Business Manager
A. C. WADSWORTH........... Assistant Business Manager

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 7, 1934

Patience is bitter, but its fruit is sweet.
—Rousseau.

DAVIDSON’S BAND

Tomorrow night Davidson’s Concert Band will formally open its season with a program in Chambers Auditorium. The band is built along the lines of a symphonic orchestra, making use of strings and woodwinds to soften and make mellow the tone of the brass instruments. The band is composed of nearly fifty pieces. All, except two, of its members are of the junior, sophomore, or freshman classes. Since practically all the members of the band will return to school next fall and with the coming of musicians in the freshman class next year, Professor James C. Pfohl, youthful director of the band, feels confident that membership in the band can be increased to 80 next fall. This would give Davidson the largest college band in the state if not in the South.

With the opening of its season, the band will start a drive for uniforms for members. Tomorrow night no admission charge will be made, but a free-will offering will be taken up after the program, the proceeds going towards the purchase of uniforms. Professor Pfohl stated that the drive will continue until enough funds to equip an 80-piece band were raised.

There has been a revival of music at Davidson since the coming of Professor Pfohl this year, and there has been no end of favorable comment from those who have heard Davidson's musical organizations. For this reason, the drive for uniforms has been heartily approved.

Here is what some of the listeners have to say regarding the band and its drive:

President Walter L. Lingle: “It is highly desirable that the members of the Davidson College Band should have suitable uniforms. Such uniforms are rather expensive and there are no funds available for their purchase. It is hoped that the students, faculty, and friends will make liberal contributions to the free-will offering being made for that purpose at this time.”

J. C. Harper, trustee: “In less than one year Professor Pfohl has brought the band at Davidson College from one of the poorest bands in North Carolina to one of the best, and those who have heard this band in the past may prepare for a great surprise at the improved ability and finished work.”

Dr. M. E. Sentelle: “I heartily approve the drive for uniforms.”

Dr. J. M. McConnell: “The student band adds a great deal to the attractiveness of all college gatherings. The faculty as well as the students are very appreciative of the excellent program of our band under the direction of Professor Pfohl. I advise all who can to attend the concert to be given tomorrow. You will enjoy the music and members of the band will appreciate your presence.”

Dr. John W. MacConnell: “Remember Dryden’s ‘Ode to Cecilia’s Day,’ when he spoke of the power of music as displayed by Orpheus and St. Cecilia. ‘He raised a mortal to the skies. She drew an angel down.’ With such power in music, none will dispute that we need more and better music here in Davidson. Now when we have an opportunity to benefit by Professor Pfohl’s able teaching, let us all contribute to the support of the band and orchestra.”

Captain Norton Pritchett: “I heartily approve of any plan for raising money to purchase band uniforms. A real band that lends itself enthusiastically and effectively to athletic and other college activities is almost indispensable, and we have such an organization. I feel sure that our Athletic Council will be glad to make a substantial appropriation to supplement whatever amount is raised otherwise.”

Mrs. N. T. Smith: “Certainly a most worthy and worthwhile undertaking. No greater asset has come to Davidson College than this band.”

Miss Cornelia Shaw: “A band that plays good music certainly deserves to be well dressed. I certainly approve the drive for uniforms.”

Mrs. A. B. Robinson: “The Davidson College Band and Orchestra under the efficient leadership of Professor J. C. Pfohl is a great asset to Davidson College as well as to the town. Friends who enjoy these musical treats without cost should be glad of the opportunity of contributing something to make possible suitable uniforms for the members of the band.”

INTRAMURAL SPORTS

On last Monday night the intramural boxing tournament came to a close. The spectators were treated to an exhibition of boxing form and skill which was quite remarkable. The matches were full of fire, the participants giving and taking all, and the audience heartily cheering every sound blow and strategic move. We thought that the entire tournament was a fine example of good clean sportsmanship—a form of athletic participation quite free from any form of commercialization. The boys entered the contest with no other idea in mind than that of keen competition to the end that the best man might win.

The same might be said of all forms of intramural activity that we have on the hill. These sports are certainly the most enjoyable and undoubtedly do the greatest good for the greatest number, which should be the fundamental aim of any form of athletics.

The champions: Ormand, Santiago, Frazier, Alexander, Lee, and Windham are to be congratulated—the vanquished are also entitled to their share of the honors. They, too, fought cleanly and well.
—R. P.-T.

ROBBING PETER TO PAY PAUL

Track and baseball practice have begun in earnest both for the varsity and freshmen squads, and this period of training has resulted in a wholesale migration of the majority of men out for these sports (especially freshmen) away from different boarding houses to an officially designated place where training tables are available. In fact, eating at a training table has been made practically compulsory; you eat at the training table or you don’t indulge in the sport. So far so good. Training is fine, absolutely necessary, but we are not in sympathy with the methods employed.

There are a great number of men on this campus who bear a portion of their expenses and in some cases make it possible for them to remain in school by acting as waiters and managers in the various boarding houses. Now, we understand that these training tables are operated not so much from the standpoint of the students’ physical development, as they are to afford a means by which certain individuals may secure their board free by working as waiters. We favor this up to a certain point, but are forced to condemn and disagree when these men are supported at the expense of those waiters at other boarding houses who lose their jobs when a number of men leave these houses and go to the training table. Surely these men have as much right to earn their bread as those waiting at the training table—neither group is privileged.

This rule is fundamentally good, but should be given a certain amount of elasticity. The spirit as well as the letter of the law should be considered. Any regulation becomes radical when it is spread blanket-like over all cases, and eventually does more harm than good. We do not want a man to lose his job in order to support another. “Do not rob Peter to pay Paul.”
—R. P.-T.

Here and There

Dr. D. C. Croissant, of George Washington University, blames foreigners for “our silly spelling.” He is an advocate of simplified spelling.

Approximately 100,000 needy young men and women are receiving CWA funds to allow them to continue their education in colleges and universities.

There is sulphur in the sun, Princeton University scientists reported recently at the conclusion of a long series of photographic tests.

The Phi Delta Theta Chapter at Northwestern University recently celebrated the 75th anniversary of its founding. It is the oldest college fraternity chapter in the state of Illinois.

Students at Ripon College publish a special paper for students in music.

On Other Campuses

MASS. STATE

From the Loyola Maroon, we...Learn of a fraternity man at Massachusetts State that was arrested for drunkenness, but was released on the plea that he had water on the brain and he was just taking an anti-freeze solution! Why don't we have them kinda cops?

CLEMSON
A vast soil survey, under the auspices of the United States Department of Agriculture, is being conducted at Clemson College. To date, some five hundred thousand samples of soil, from over the entire Palmetto State, have been obtained for analysis at Clemson. About three hundred thousand samples have already been tested for hydrogen ion concentration value, relative acidity, and several other values.

PRESBYTERIAN COLLEGE
The members of the varsity rifle team at P. C. recently fired a match against the girls’ team. In order to make the contest more even, the co-eds were allowed to make use of all available means of disconcerting their adversaries, urging them on, applauding their efforts, etc. We understand that the boys lost ... the rifle match.

WASHINGTON AND LEE
The student body at Washington and Lee has petitioned the Athletic Council to retain Coach Mathis, popular wrestling coach, another year. Earlier this year, it was announced by the council that Coach Mathis would have to be released due to financial difficulties. However, the students kept Mathis at W. & L. by popular subscription. Washington and Lee wrestling teams have gained national recognition under the coaching of Mathis, having lost but one match in the last fifty or more meets. Final action of the council will not be taken until the latter part of this week.

CALIFORNIA
Crossed eyes are things of the past! Frederic Mason, professor in optometry at the University of California, has perfected an instrument which will straighten crossed eyes. The device, which operates by means of light projected directly into the retina, trains and re-educates crossed eyes to act simultaneously and correctly.

COLLEGE ORCHESTRA MERITS MUCH PRAISE
(Continued from page 1)
by Svendson. Moreland Cunningham will render a cornet solo, “Grand Russian Fantasy,” by Levy, and several marches and novelty numbers are on the program. The band, built along the lines of a symphonic band, includes strings as well as regular band instruments. In the band’s instrumentation are included two unusual instruments, the alto clarinet and the sarrusophone, and a complete set of drum traps. Altogether the band consists of 35 instruments, less than the number in the marching band. Friday night the band will give a concert at Lenoir and the following Monday night it will play at Steele Creek. The complete program is as follows:
1. Hall of Fame—Concert March—Olivadoti.
2. Overture to Stradella—Flotow.
3. Cornet Solo: “Grand Russian Fantasia”—Levy, by Moreland Cunningham.
4. Chant—Nobody Knows de Trouble I’ve Seen—Clarence Cameron White—(from Bandana Sketches).
5. The Black Man—Sousa.
Intermission.
6. Selections from H. M. S. Pinafore—Sullivan.
7. Vocal Solo: Sylvia—Oley Speaks, David McLain.
8. Romance—Svendson.
9. The Fencing Master—March—James C. Harper.
10. “Atlantis Suite” — (The Lost Continent)—Safranek.

FRESHMEN TALK OF
(Continued from page 1)
complaints of the upperclassmen against the freshmen. By influencing future classes, Powell stated, a much better chapel service could be maintained since the present attitude is acquired and not original. The second idea implied an improvement in the church situation. Complaints have come from the Court of Control concerning the freshmen not remaining in their seats long enough after chapel, applause by the freshmen in retaliation to upperclassmen boos when a freshman announcement is made, and concerning stamping of feet in chapel. These were presented to the freshmen for their consideration and also a suggestion from the faculty that they visit more on Sunday night.

FUTURE ON CAMPUS
Local Theatre Will Show Three Favorites
This week at the Davidson Theatre there are some of the best among the present productions to be screened. “Queen Christina,” “Bolero,” and “The Lost Patrol” should warrant their share of the glory. These three shows have been tried and found true, with only very little lacking.

Wednesday, March 7—Bolero
The intimate story of the life of a famous dancer, with George Raft taking this part. He is well suited for it, for that was his profession before he went into the movies. Carole Lombard takes the lead, as the one with whom he falls in love, and upsets all his plans, which included using the beautiful women who helped him on his climb merely as stepping-stones. The two dance the Raftero, and the “Bolero,” two of the newest dances.

Thursday and Friday, March 8 and 9—Queen Christina
This masterpiece needs no introduction. It is Greta Garbo’s best production, and John Gilbert, with her, is equally at his top level. Garbo plays one of the most colorful parts of her career, and makes it lovable and tender, in the role of Queen Christina. She is torn between her love for Gilbert and her duty, and their acting is wonderful.

Saturday, March 10—The Lost Patrol
This is listed as one of the best and most inspiring of the late shows. It is the story of a platoon of British Tommies who are lost in a Mesopotamian desert, and their struggles to free themselves. Victor McLaglen, Boris Karloff, Wallace Ford, and Reginald Denny are among the lost patrol, and an outstanding fact is that there is no woman in the cast. It is a story of suffering, and very interesting and thrilling.

Monday, March 12—I’ve Got Your Number
At last comes some real good comedy, with Joan Blondell and Pat O'Brien together for the first time, who should make a good team. Joan is the smart-cracking operator and O’Brien the equally smart-cracking trouble shooter for the company, and when they get together, the words do fly. The action includes a bold robbery, a kidnapping, and a gang fight with a crew of telephone linemen. Also, Joan gets her opportunity to prove that she is as good a dramatic actress as a comedian. The cast includes Glenda Farrell, Allen Jenkins and Gordon Westcott.

Tuesday, March 13—Hold That Girl
Another very good comedy, of a sort, with James Dunn and Claire Trevor. There is not much known about this, but with the stars, it should prove to be very good.

NEWS DIGEST
By DOPEY McCALL

ONE YEAR OF ROOSEVELT
One year of the Roosevelt administration and the new deal is over and it finds the country well on the road to recovery. The hand of the President has initiated the series of departments which are carrying on the work of the new reconstruction; it has begun the policy of action instead of waiting; it has put millions of dollars in the pockets of the common people; it has devalued the dollar; it has put men back to work; it has done its duty and its best. May the next year bring as much progress as the last.

DILLINGER ESCAPES
John Dillinger, the modern Jesse James, escaped from his closely guarded jail in Crown Point, Ind., eluded a cordon of police thrown out to stop him, and is now scouring the states in that vicinity with a machine gun in his hands. Dillinger had been arrested with numerous murders and robberies to his credit and was awaiting trial in jail when, with the aid of a wooden pistol painted black, he forced his jailer, Miss Holley, to unlock him and then he locked the others in and escaped in the sheriff's car. A widespread hunt is in progress over most of Indiana and Illinois in an attempt to find him before he can round up the members of his gang.

HUNGARY
The situation is still tense in Hungary as the result of the arrests of one hundred persons on the charge of being spies working in the interests of Jugoslavia. The suspects comprised both citizens and army officers and implicated several important and beautiful social leaders of the female sex. It was the sensation of Vienna and no one quite knows what to expect next. Three army officers committed suicide when the police net was closing about them and this looks as if there might be some room for suspecting their guilt.

A YEAR OF TRIAL
This head does not refer to the people but to the government of the United States, and it also does not refer to the year of the Roosevelt administration just past but rather to the coming year. The forces in Washington and all over the country who are opposed to things as they are, are gathering their forces for war and from now on things will not be so easy for the latest wielder of the big stick. From now on he is going to have to fight to get what he wants.

WHEN A FELLER NEEDS A FRIEND
When a collapsible collar makes you look pretty silly... forget it, son, with a pipeful of BRIGGS. This tranquil tobacco brings peace after panic. Long seasoned in wood, its rare, spicy tobaccos are tempered to mildness. There's not a bite in a barrelful of BRIGGS... the blend a feller needs. KEPT FACTORY FRESH by inner lining of CELLOPHANE. P. Lorillard Co., Inc.