THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 28, 1934

TWO SPEAKERS ADDRESS GROUP
Gamma Sigma Epsilon Hears Program Given By Weeks And Batte

Last Tuesday night at nine o'clock in the chemical building, Gamma Sigma Epsilon, local chemical fraternity, held its first meeting
since the initiation of the new members. The program consisted of a paper by K. D. Weeks on the tobacco
industry, in which he discussed its history, use, and matters pertaining to the chemical nature of tobacco itself, and its
by-products. Of particular interest was the brief discussion of nicotine, its chemical properties, and its comparative toxicity. This was followed
by a rather lengthy discourse on chemical warfare by Jim Batte. This discourse consisted of a subdivision of the different
types of compounds and mixtures used in said subject. In his discussion Batte used quite a bit of information acquired
during his period of study at Edgewood arsenal last summer. He also related several practical and interesting experiences encountered while
at this camp. It was clearly evident from this talk that the United States is more than adequately prepared chemically
in the event of an emergency. This discussion evoked quite a few interesting questions from other members of the fraternity
present.

A short but important business meeting followed this very enjoyable program. Discussion of monthly dues, deputations to nearby institutions, and
the mineral exhibit were the highlights of this business meeting. Due to changes made at the last meeting, Gamma Sigma
Epsilon will meet at nine o'clock on alternating Tuesday evenings instead of Monday, the previous time. The next meeting will
be held Tuesday, December fourth.

Weekly Program Presented By Band
Mr. Jackson Gives Report On “Wills” Conference Held Here Last Week

The Davidson College Band, under the direction of Warren Babcock, assistant director of music, presented its regular weekly broadcast from
the auditorium of Chambers building at nine o'clock last Friday evening. The program, announced by “Skip” Brown, opened with the
signature number “O! Davidson!” After this, the band gave a stirring martial number, Fillmore’s “Men of Ohio,” and “The Iron
Grip” by Haines.

Mr. F. L. Jackson, treasurer of the college, then reported on the conference on “More and Better Wills” which was
held here during the earlier part of last week. The presidents and business officers of twenty colleges in the two
Carolinas were present at this conference to discuss methods of college financing and the necessity of making the people of
this section “more will conscious” according to Mr. Jackson. He then gave a brief resume of conference activities.

The Davidson Quartet, composed of F. H. Morris, first tenor, P. W. McClanahan, second tenor, Frank Tucker, baritone, and J.
W. Morgan, bass, then sang the “Soldier's Farewell” and “Street Urchin.” James Chrisman followed with a saxophone solo “Berceuse from
Jocelyn.” “Silver Jubilee” by the entire band concluded the broadcast.

Mrs. Cumming Speaks To Group Of Students

An intimate talk which revealed a number of the lesser-known works and qualities of the great American man of letters,
Nathaniel Hawthorne, was given before advanced English students by Mrs. W. P. Cumming last Friday morning. Mrs. Cumming, for a
number of years a diligent student of Hawthorne, was introduced by Dr. E. F. Shewmake. The speaker revealed that she
had for many years lived in the very town where Hawthorne spent most of the days of his life and
she had taken advantage of every opportunity to study his works and his life. Declaring that Salem, Mass. is a
“city of the past,” Mrs. Cumming told a number of apt and amusing incidents about the town and the odd
personages there. Hawthorne, an introspective recluse for many years, lived in the quiet town of Salem and there he wrote
some of his best literature, steeped in the environment of Puritan tradition. The great author recorded every thought and observation
of his and later transmuted them into living works. These and other interesting points were brought out by the speaker.
Mrs. Cumming seemed to take particular interest in Hawthorne’s juvenile publication which he modeled after the “Spectator” of Addison and
Steele; he even adopted their name for his journal.

Around TOWN

Miss Sophia Richards, whose marriage to Prof. John Bailey will occur December 22, was the honor guest at a dinner
Friday evening given by Mrs. J. R. Withers and Mrs. G. R. Vowles at the home of Mrs. Withers. Miss
Laura Williams of Concord, who is visiting Miss Grace James, was an out-of-town guest.

The Twentieth Century Club met Friday afternoon at the home of Mrs. Claude Ives. Mrs. Price Gwynn gave a paper
on “Williamsburg.”

The As You Like It Club was entertained Friday night at the home of Mrs. R. S. Burwell.

Prof. and Mrs. Oscar Thies entertained at dinner Saturday night. Guests were Miss Rogers, of Greensboro, Miss Adele Arbuckle, Miss
Sophie Richards, Dr. Clifford, Professors Bailey and Lilly.

Mrs. Jennie Bates has come to spend the winter with her daughter, Mrs. Alice Buckner.

Mrs. Frazer Hood and her sisters, Misses Corine and Jessie Wagner, have gone to Mississippi to spend the Thanksgiving holidays.
They will spend the Christmas holidays with Miss Kalista Hood in New York.

Miss Libby Rhett and Miss Becky Gwathmey, of Converse, will spend the Thanksgiving vacation with Major and Mrs. John T.
Rhett.

Prof. and Mrs. William McGavock will have as their guest during Thanksgiving Mr. McGavock’s sister, Martha, who is a freshman
at Converse.

A Thanksgiving program was given at the Davidson High School chapel Saturday morning. It was in charge of the first
grade, of which Miss Margaret Adams is the teacher.

The Kill Kare Klub was entertained at its regular meeting Thursday evening by Miss Grace James.

Rev. and Mrs. William Patterson, of Clover, S. C., have been guests this past week at the home of their
sister, Miss Vic Withers. Rev. Patterson is an alumnus of Davidson College.

Miss Sarah Withers, who is teaching in the Garner High School, will come to Davidson Wednesday to spend the Thanksgiving
vacation with her parents, Mr. and Mrs. J. R. Withers.

Students Will Be In Charge Of Vespers

The Y. M. C. A. is planning to make an innovation at the regular Y Vesper services next Sunday night.
An especial effort will be made to give the students a service in which they will all join. With this
aim in mind, the regular speaker will be dispensed with next Sunday and the worship will be entirely in the
hands of the students. The program will be a worship service developing throughout a certain theme which has not yet
been decided on. Hymns of a type calculated to appeal to students will be sung from the Premier hymn book
to the accompaniment of both the piano and the organ. There will also be scripture readings and a short talk,
both along the lines suggested by the theme. This type of program is being tried as an experiment in an
attempt to make the Y. M. C. A. Vespers mean more to a larger number of the student body. It
is thought that a variation in the regular program might help in creating this interest.

NORTH-BOUNDNOTES

The Mooresville bumming ordinance has recently been repealed by action of the city government. It was previously forbidden to bum
within two hundred yards of a filling station, among other regulations. This rule was rescinded to facilitate the passage of
Davidson students to and from the city.

Some amusing excerpts from the New Englander’s “Spectator” were read to the class by the lecturer, and inasmuch as she
has herself written a small book on the subject of Hawthorne’s journals, the notes were particularly compelling to the students.
A number of visitors met with the class to hear Mrs. Cumming’s talk.

M. H. GOODRUM
Dry Goods, Groceries
Hardware
Radio and Radio Tubes
PHILCO AND GRUNOW

Lack Of Interest Disbands Old Philanthropic Society
Retiring President Expresses Hope That Society May Be Reorganized

After almost ninety-eight years of existence, the Philanthropic Literary Society has disbanded. The reason for this is the lack of
interest and not enough new men. The first meeting of this society was held June 22, 1937, in one of
the rooms in either Oak Row or Elm Row. There were five men present at this meeting, but by the
end of the year, there were about thirty members. Two years later the motto, “Verite Sans Peur,” was adopted. Several
years later, after many efforts, the “Phi” hall was built and dedicated on February 16, 1850. This hall still stands
on the campus. The chandelier which hangs in the hall is a duplicate of that one under which Napoleon III
and Eugenie de Montigi were married.

Until a short time ago, Literary Societies were the most important extracurricular activities on the campus, having charge of all
the publications and of commencement exercises. Everyone belonged to one of the two societies. These took the part of student
government, having a system almost identical with the honor system of today, except they used fines instead of suspension. The
Philanthropic Literary Society has had a continuous existence except for a few years during the war between the states.

There is a slight hope held by the president, Cameron Deans, that the society will be able to reorganize sometime
in the future.

TWO HAVE APPENDICITIS

Both Professor Pfohl and student Everett Otey were subject to attacks of appendicitis during the past week. However, Professor Pfohl’s
attack did not prove serious enough for an operation, although he remained for a short time at the City Memorial
Hospital in Winston-Salem. Otey was taken to the Lowrance Hospital in Mooresville where he underwent an operation on Wednesday. At
present, he is rapidly recovering.

Mrs. W. A. Jetton and son, William, have returned from a visit in Norfolk, Virginia.

SERVICE QUALITY
HOTEL DAVIDSON
VARIETY QUANTITY

Civic League Holds Sale For Milk Fund
Canvas Of Dormitories Realizes Forty Dollars For League

The Davidson Civic League held its semi-annual rummage sale for the benefit of charity last Saturday, November 24th. This sale,
one of the features of Davidson life, consists of the gathering of all kinds of clothing from every available source
and selling them at some downtown store. The clothes are cleaned and pressed free of charge by the Davidson Laundry
and repaired by a committee of women before being offered for sale. A group of seven boys composed of C.
B. Chapman, J. W. Dickson, F. S. Furness, J. S. McMullen, J. M. Smith, L. C. Vass, and W. M.
Wicker gathered clothes from all the dormitories. A good supply of shoes, coats, shirts, ties, and suits from the students
helped to make the profit from the sale this year the largest it has ever been. About forty dollars clean
profit was made this season, and this money will be used to buy milk for undernourished children of the local
grammar school and to provide for the maintenance of a cot at the Mecklenburg Sanatorium.

Mrs. Walter Lee Lingle, who was in charge of the sales, wishes to thank all students who helped in the
clothes gathering and also those who provided them.

Mrs. W. P. Cumming addressed Prof. Shewmake’s senior class Wednesday morning. Her subject was “Hawthorne”.

Capt. and Mrs. Gammon, of Fort Benning, Ga., are guests of Dr. and Mrs. H. M. Moffett. Capt. Gammon is
a brother of Mrs. Moffett.

TO HELP PREVENT COLDS
USE VICKS VA-TRO-NOL
JUST A FEW DROPS UP EACH NOSTRIL

Two deputations, one to Queens-Chicora College and the other to Mitchell College, were sent out by the “Y” this week.
Don Brailey was leader of the Queens deputation, and Warner Dubose was speaker. Warren Babcock furnished a cello solo for
the deputation, accompanied by Kenneth Scott at the piano. At Mitchell College, in Statesville, Don Brandon and Bob Coit closed
a series of four deputations, the purpose of which was to review a book by Dr. E. T. Thompson on
the history of missions in the southern United States.

The first round of the “Y” ping-pong tournament has been completed and the winners are beginning the second round this
week. Due to the expense incurred by maintaining the pool table and accessories at the “Y,” it has been suggested
that a pool tournament be put on, each contestant contributing a small entrance fee to defray maintenance expenses.

BE WELL GROOMED for HOME-COMING
Norton’s Barber Shop

TO HELP THROAT AND CHEST

do you have to knock the “dottle” out of your pipe

GRANGER
in a common-sense package—10c
© 1934, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.

Pipe tobacco made by the Wellman Process and rough cut as Granger is, does not clog the pipe but stays
lit, smokes longer, slower and cooler. We believe this process is the reason for Granger being milder. We know it
adds something to the flavor and aroma of the good, ripe White Burley Tobacco that cannot be obtained in any
other way. We wish, in some way, we could get every man who smokes a pipe to just try Granger.

GRANGER ROUGH CUT
doesn’t clog a pipe
