THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 10, 1934

Williams Attends Philadelphia Meet
Business Professor Goes to Economic Convention

Prof. John P. Williams, of the business department and dean of the freshmen, attended the convention of the American Economic
Association, held in Philadelphia from December 27 to 29. Also meeting with the Economic Association was the American Political Science
Association. Around five thousand members attended the meeting which was held to discuss current political and economic problems. Due to
the widespread interest in the subjects discussed, Professor Williams says that the meeting was quite long and controversial. Perhaps the
most debated question, says Professor Williams, was that concerning currency and the gold standard. He states that the meeting proved
interesting and helpful to those attending. On his return, Professor Williams stopped in Washington and Richmond, where he visited points
of interest.

Rogers to Star In New Picture
Joe E. Brown Is Featured in Comic Role

Wednesday, 10—Son of a Sailor
This is Joe E. Brown’s latest and best picture. There is some real humor in the situation he finds himself
in after bragging about his prowess as a boxer, in the navy. And then, to top it all, he speaks
about the admiral, who he does not know, to the admiral’s granddaughter. In the picture with him are Jean Muir,
Thelma Todd, Johnny Mack Brown, Frank McHugh and Sheli Terry, and the combination is very good and very funny.

Thursday and Friday, January 11 and 12—Mr. Skitch
Will Rogers plays the part of the Missouri farmer who has lost his home and the family starts moving west.
With him in his travels are Zazu Pitts, his wife, and Rochelle Hudson, his daughter. They settle in the west,
and life goes on. In the picture Florence Desmond, who is famous for her impersonations of all the stars, male
and female, and who performs in this. The story is very humorous in an interesting way.

Saturday, January 13—Convention City
The Honeywell Corporation is at Atlantic City for its annual convention, and everyone tries his hardest to become the new
sales manager. Hilarious comedy runs throughout the show, with most of the screen’s best comedians exerting themselves all the way.
In the cast are Adolphe Menjou, Dick Powell, Joan Blondell, Guy Kibbee, Mary Astor, and Frank McHugh.

Monday, January 15—Women in His Life
At the time this paper went to press, this picture had not been released.

Tuesday, January 16—Alice in Wonderland
This magnificent fantasy at last comes to the screen in all its splendor and imagination, and unbelievableness. There is the
simplicity and the grandeur of the book brought together in the picture. In the cast are Charlotte Henry, as Alice,
and Gary Cooper, Jack Oakie, Alison Skipworth, W. C. Fields, Raymond Hatton, Cary Grant, Polly Moran, and many others, composing
an all-star cast. Alice is carried through Wonderland, and her trip seems as real as even the book painted it.

Meeting Held Tuesday By Le Cercle Francais
Le Cercle Francais, honorary French fraternity, held a meeting Tuesday evening, December 19, at the home of Dr. G. B.
Watts. The Christmas program was opened with a medley of French Christmas songs played by Mrs. Watts. Madison Armistead then
gave a discourse on “Noel En France,” and afterwards the members of the circle took part in a competition in
French conversation. Two sides were chosen with Harvey Glass and Madison Armistead acting as captains. The judges awarded the prize
to Glass’ team, and the most clever presentation of material was given by Fred Slaughter of the winning team. French
games were played under the supervision of the president, Lanier Pratt. Refreshments appropriate to the season were served. At the
business meeting which preceded the program, E. C. Womble, of the Junior class, was elected to membership.

“Uncle Jule” Recalls Davidson of the Past
One day recently this reporter spent one of the most enjoyable afternoons since coming to school, merely sitting on one
of “Uncle Jule’s hack-blocks” down in the school workshop, and listening. Occasionally encouraged by a question or a suggestion, Davidson's
“grand old man of the campus,” Julius Everett pushed back the veil of the years and pausing here and there
to chuckle reminiscently, drew from his memory many incidents connected with the Davidson campus of yesteryear.

Torrence, Grey and slightly stooped, Mr. Torrence for the past twenty-six years has watched the college “grow up” from the
door of his little workshop down beside the Students’ Store. Not only has he watched it grow from infancy but,
furthermore, his steady and meticulous work in the shop throughout the years has contributed no small amount to its growth.
Born in Iredell County, April 6, 1867, he is now sixty-six years old and still working as hard as he
did twenty years ago. His only venture out of the State was a trip down to Rock Hill, S. C.
“The trip was swell, but home looked mighty good” when he got back. He distinctly remembers Dr. Henry Louis Smith,
Dr. Martin, Dr. Ben Lacy, and William Sayd, who is now a noted physician in Florida. He kept the residence
of Dr. J. B. Shearer repaired when he lived in the old building known as Louisiana.

Turning to the humorous side of the college, he recounted tale after tale of the boys back yonder “when hazing
was hazing.” One incident that he particularly remembers was the night that a few pleasure-seeking upperclassmen divested a bunch of
freshmen of their garments and then applied a thick coating of black, oozy tar. The poor little “freshies” came running
by his door, entirely in the nude, and headed for the pond that lay alongside the old gulley road, where
they stayed the remainder of the night. Another anecdote was of Dr. Harding’s buggy which was stolen by some students
and hung by the shafts high on the bannisters above the second floor of the old Chambers Building. These and
many other tales were told by the old man who has mended, and built this college to which he is
so attached. Commenting on the student body as a whole, he said that “the college and the boys themselves are
the finest there is” and added seriously “and I like Roosevelt just fine.”

Prof. Currie Speaks to Debaters on Forensics
Prof. Archibald Currie, Professor of Political Science, addressed Alpha Phi Epsilon, national honorary debating fraternity, at its second meeting of
the year held on December 13. The meeting was well attended by faculty members as well as students, including old
members as well as newly-elected students, who will be initiated at the next meeting. The society chose as its aim
“The Promotion of Forensics on the Davidson Campus.” It expects to sponsor oratorical contests from time to time. A program
committee was chosen, consisting of R. W. Pratt-Thomas, R. H. Smith, and R. A. Banks. Professor Currie spoke on the
place of forensics in the world of today, taking various phases of modern life and showing the increasing need of
speaking ability. He outlined the different types of speeches, presenting the use of each. The society plans to promote extemporaneous
speaking during the year. A new system of debating at Georgia Tech, that of open forum discussions, has heightened interest
in debating and increased attendance at debates.

ENTERTAINS DAVIDSON STUDENTS
Miss Ruth Pfohl, who rendered harp solos at the Y. M. C. A. Christmas vesper service and chapel service before
the Christmas holidays, is shown above with her harp. Students in chapel on Monday, December 20, were entertained with a
unique musical program by Miss Ruth Pfohl and Miss Louise Nelson of the University of Michigan. Miss Pfohl played the
harp, assisted by Miss Nelson at the piano. The selections played by Miss Pfohl were “Dreams,” by Robinson, “At the
Monastery,” by Hasselman, and “Prelude Number Two,” by Salzedo. As encore numbers she played “The Music Box” and “The Harmonious
Blacksmith.”"Box" and "The Volga Boat Song." Miss Pfohl also explained the construction of the harp, which has seven pedals and
forty-two strings. Miss Nelson played "Chopin Waltz," "Little Toy Soldier" by Respighi, and several other selections. Both musicians were well
received by an appreciative audience and were called back for several encores. Miss Pfohl is the sister of James Pfohl,
professor of music at Davidson.

Eu Society Addressed By Mexican Authority

"Art and Crafts of Mexico" was the subject of a talk presented at the Eumenean Literary Society Tuesday night by
Hervey Ross, formerly an American inhabitant of Mexico. Completing the program, Ed Hodge spoke on a phase of science and
R. T. Banks read a humorous paper. Ross discussed the peculiarities of each province and illustrated his lecture with several
native examples of his own. "The gentle craft of shooting presidents," said Ross, "is perhaps the most polished art that
Mexico can boast of." Ed Hodge discussed the discoveries of several rare gases and particularly the work of Sir William
Ramsey, Lord Raleigh, and William Travers in that line. An original work, "My Rambling Recreations," was presented by Richard Banks.

Library Exhibition Has Letter of Pres. Wilson

First editions with the author's inscription and autographed letters are being exhibited in the library reading room this week. In
a letter from President Wilson to Josephus Daniels, the President calls Davidson his Alma Mater, which he holds in high
esteem. Walter Hines Page, Ray Stannard Baker, Sinclair Lewis, Pupin, and other famous personages are represented by autographed letters. An
inscribed first edition of "Eimi" by E. E. Cummings and other books are on exhibit at present.

IF YOU COME ONCE--- YOU’LL COME ALWAYS
NORTON’S BARBER SHOP

When You’re Almost Groggy From Studying For Those Exams - - - Relax with a cup of that famous Coffee
and a Sandwich AT THE PEP

Factory Workers Sent Here to Repair Organ

For the past few days, workmen have been repairing the giant Skinner organ located in Chambers Auditorium. Recently, Professor James
C. Pfohl, director of music, noticed that the contacts on the combination pistons had corroded. The factory was immediately notified
and workers were sent here to remove the corroded contacts and replace them with the new type silver-plated ones. Included
in the contract is a guarantee of five years against any mechanical defect in the organ. This organ, costing slightly
over $20,000, was presented to the college by Mrs. Cameron Morrison of Charlotte over four years ago.

Interment Is Held for Loved Davidson Woman

After suffering for several years with diabetes, Mrs. M. A. Abernathy died December 28, 1933. Her body was buried the
following day in the Davidson Cemetery. Mrs. Abernathy is survived by her husband, ticket agent for the Davidson railway office,
and two children, a boy fifteen years old and a girl seven years old.

CARS FOR RENT and Stop for That Good Gulf Gas and Oil
M. P. HENDERSON

NEW GERMAN BOOKS IN THE LIBRARY

Some of the German books recently received and now in the process of being catalogued are of unusual interest. "The
History of German Literature" by Eloesser, 1933, is an English translation of a significant recent book tracing especially modern movements.
"Germany Enters the Third Reich" by Prof. Calvin B. Hoover of Duke University is pronounced the "best up-to-the-minute study of
Germany that we have." "Feldgrau schafft Dividende" by P. C. Ettinghofer is said to be a more effective war novel
even than "All Quiet." The thought of the title is: "The Uniform Creates Dividends." Forst-Battaglia’s "Deutsche Prosa seit dem Weltkriege"
is an anthology of some of the most significant prose written since the World War. "Ein Haus der Dämonen" (House
of Demons) by Hans von Hulsen is the life of Goethe's ill-starred son August. It has been very favorably reviewed.
"Emil und die Detektive" by E. Kästner will appeal to those who like light reading. It is a rollicking detective
story written for German children. In "Was die Welt den Deutschen verdankt," Zingel points out the debt of the world
to Germany in various fields. "Wer Ist's" is the German Who’s Who. As this is the 1928 edition, it has
not yet suffered from the blight of anti-Semitism; such authors as Feuchtwanger, Werfel, and Wassermann are listed. Mr. Hitler is
not mentioned.

Became Best Seller

"Kleiner Mann—Was nun?" by Hans Fallada is a "depression" novel which became a best seller overnight in America. Professor Vowles
has a letter from the author, written in response to an inquiry about the name Fallada, in which a curious
and interesting fact comes to light. Hans Fallada writes that thirteen years ago he assumed the pen name Fallada to
prevent his father, a government official opposed to his son’s "scribbling," from knowing that he was writing. However, his father
found out about it within three months. The author assumed the name, as he says, of a faithful white horse
in one of his favorite fairy tales, the "Goose Girl" by the Grimm brothers. In the story, the name is
spelled Falada. The accent is on the first syllable.

DON'T READ THIS ... this is an advertisement

Did you ever stop to think that the firms and people that advertise in our paper are the ones that
are interested in our welfare, and the ones that strive to please us by their products and services? Let’s start
the year off right by patronizing our advertisers more faithfully—your patronage will be appreciated.

The following is a list of our advertisers so far this year:
M. P. Henderson
College Pharmacy
High Art Clothing Co.
White Drug Co.
Johnson’s Barber Shop
Norton’s Barber Shop
Davidson Theatre
Union Theological Seminary
Standard Printing Company
P. H. Hanes Knitting Co.
M. H. Goodrum & Co.
J. B. Ivey & Co.
Little Pep
Tate-Brown Co.
John L. Moyers Tours Co.
Parker Pen Co.
R. H. Henderson
Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co. (Chesterfield and Granger)
American Tobacco Co. (Lucky Strike)
Ray Harrison (Derby Tailoring)
G & C Merriam Co. (Webster Dictionary)
E. A. Morrow (Radio Repairs)
National Library Press (ABC Shorthand)
Duke University School of Medicine

—THE BUSINESS STAFF.

Davidson Masquers to Give Work of B. Shaw

The Red and Black Masquers, Davidson’s dramatic organization, will present George Bernard Shaw’s "Candida" the latter part of February. "Candida,"
a bourgeois drama, is one of Shaw’s most popular productions and has been presented extensively in England and America. Because
of its great demand, it has been translated into over five different languages. Rehearsals will start immediately following examinations.

Louisiana Dormitory to Be Destroyed by CWA

Demolition of the old Louisiana Dormitory was begun early this week by CWA workers; this work will last about two
weeks. About 150,000 bricks will be gotten from the building, 10,000 of which will be used to make a walk
along the Statesville-Charlotte Highway from the walkway leading to the post office and the one leading to Ray Harrison’s Haberdashery;
the other bricks will be used in walks to be constructed elsewhere in the town.

College Radio Program To Be Started Tonight

The Davidson radio program, which has been discontinued over the Christmas holidays, will be given for the first time in
1934 tonight at 8:30. The feature of the program will be a talk by Captain N. G. Pritchett, who will
speak on athletics at Davidson College, putting particular stress on intramural sports. Also, several selections will be given by the
Davidson Quartet and Glee Club, under the direction of Prof. J. C. Pfohl.

Dr. M. L. Stirewalt to Lead Y.M.C.A. Vespers

The Y. M. C. A. vesper service, held every Sunday evening at 6 o'clock, will have for its speaker this
week Dr. M. L. Stirewalt. Dr. Stirewalt is now pastor of the St. John Lutheran Church at Salisbury; he is
a very outstanding preacher, having the largest Lutheran congregation in the South.
