oa | Around the Wildcat’s Lair

Those fighting Davidson Wildcats sort of took it on the chin in their games played last week. First of all,
the varsity basketball team invaded three Virginia colleges and bit the dust in two of the three encounters. To start
things off, the ’Cats, led by the lanky Jim Morgan, sank Monk Younger’s V. P. I. Gobblers to the tune
of 32 to 28. Then came the setbacks when the University of Virginia and William and Mary quints gave the
Wildcats severe trouncings. The two losses, however, are no reflection on the Davidson team because those Virginians are really putting
out some splendid teams this year. Although the scores on paper do not indicate the ability of the Wildcats, those
boys have a team not to be sneered at. They are working hard to produce a winning combination, but old
man hard luck seems to stick with them. The students who saw Davidson, rated as underdogs, almost lick Duke and
State only to lose out in the last few minutes of play, realize that those Wildcats don’t have such a
bad team after all. All the teams in the Big Five have excellent material this year and it’s just too
bad that Davidson has to land in the cellar.

When Carolina’s White Phantoms upset the Duke Blue Devils last week, the sports fans were taken by surprise. The Tar
Heels’ victory gave their brother team at State the Big Five leadership. The Wolfpack has won four and lost one,
while both the Carolina and Duke fives have won three and lost one. Wake Forest has won one and dropped
four, and Davidson has won exactly none and lost four.

The freshman basketeers will be given a severe test when they meet strong teams representing the two outstanding prep schools
in the South, Darlington and McCallie, on Friday and Saturday. Ramsay Potts, Darlington’s ace forward who plays basketball as superbly
as he swings a racquet to tennis championships, will be the spotlight in the Romans’ attack. It is remembered that
it was this same youth who ran circles around the freshman team of last year. We will be with you
at these contests to see the Centennials exhibit their power. And speaking of Bruce Peabody’s young aggregation, it looks like
the prospects for a varsity cage team next year are bright. Charlotte’s gift of Peabody and Quick should prove an
asset to next year’s varsity—which will have three regulars back, Harris, Ross, and Morgan. Porter, Knorr, and Cathey should all
see service next year.

While the varsity basketball team goes on the state trip, meeting State, Wake Forest, Duke, and Carolina, respectively, the inter-fraternity
basketball tournament, spring football practice, tennis, wrestling, and boxing occupy the students’ interest here in our own back yard. The
fraternity cage meet is in the midst of its fury, with the Phi Delts and K. A.’s leading the field
so far by reaching the semi-finals. To pick the winner of the tourney would be a task, and some hot
battles will be played before the champion is determined.

Random Shots: Spring football practice continues... Two gridsters keep in trim by taking open-air calisthenics without football togs (or anything
else!)... The varsity tennis team should go places this year. It has the prospects of being the best net team
to represent Davidson in a number of years... Wade Ison’s contest of Davidson All-Time football team is a wonderful affair.
It has attracted interest of Davidson followers all over the country... It has been said of the Wildcats that they
always win their games. Well, moral victories anyway... The other members of the Big Five are fortunate in securing such
remarkable new coaches, but Davidson is doubly proud of its coaching set-up of Newton and McEver... Earle Frazier and Ras
Evans should chalk up some track records this year in their capacities.

GRAPPLERS LOSE TO VIRGINIA TECH IN UNEVEN MEET

Captain Fort and Jim Harris Only Men to Score for ’Cat Team

SCORE IS 22½ TO 9½, Duke and Carolina Are Next on Schedule for Matmen

The Davidson College grapplers ended a somewhat disappointing invasion of Virginia last Saturday, when they were turned back 22½ to
9½ by a strong Virginia Tech wrestling team. In the match, which was held at Blacksburg, the Gobblers took five
of the eight bouts and fought to a draw in the 165-pound class. Three Techmen and one Davidsonian scored falls
in the exciting meet. Captain Fort in the 165-pound class was the only ’Cat wrestler to score a fall over
his opponent, although Jim Harris of Davidson gained a time decision over Carl Lungrin of V. P. I. Russel Minter,
Tech star, pinned John Thompson in the 126-pound bout and another Techman, Clete Broyles, threw John Taylor in the 145-pound
event. Captain Nelson Waldrop, Tech 175-pounder and Southern Conference champion in his weight, clinched the meet for his team by
pinning LeRoy Blackwelder in short order.

In the coming contests with Duke, Carolina, and State, the 'Cats intend to avenge these defeats and carry on a
successful campaign in North Carolina, at least. In the Duke meet, which will be held Saturday at Durham, Coach Unger
hopes to have the services of Potter and Sprunt, who previously have been unable to report for practice. With these
additions to the team, the ’Cats should put up a real fight. The match with Carolina, which is scheduled for
the 16th, and the match with Duke on the 10th, will decide whether Davidson is out of the state contest
or not. If the ’Cats should win, they will meet State at Charlotte in the finals; otherwise it will be
held here.

Season's schedule: February 10, Duke, there; February 16, Carolina, here; February 24, State, Charlotte.

K. A.’s and Phi Delt’s Lead in Tournament

Pikas and Sigma Chis to Play Second Round Matches

The Kappa Alphas and Phi Delta Thetas entered the semi-finals of the inter-fraternity basketball tournament by virtue of a win
over the Phi Gamma Deltas and Beta Theta Phis, respectively. Led by Captain E. F. McPhail, the K. A.’s won
their second round match 29-10, although being given much stronger competition than the score indicates. The superb passing attack and
the accurate goal tossing proved too much of a handicap for the Phi Gams. The Beta Theta Phis and Phi
Delta Thetas met in the second round due to a bye received in the first round by both teams. The
Phi Delts oiled their attack and shifting into high ran over the Betas, 29-6. Much spirit was shown by both
teams throughout the contest, but the Phi Delts’ combination proved too strong for Captain Richardson’s team.

The Kappa Sigmas received the right to play the Sigma Alpha Epsilons in the second round by virtue of a
first round forfeit from the Theta Upsilon Omegas. Led by Captain Kirkland, the Phi Kappa Alphas defeated the Phi Kappa
Phis, 16-6, to enter the second round and become the opponents of the Sigma Phi Epsilons, who had gained the
second round due to a bye. Teams still in the tournament will play their matches off during this week.

Good Net Prospects Foreseen by Captain

The best tennis team in years was forecast in an interview with Jimmy Halverstadt, captain of the team, and Wee
Thompson, manager and player. Only one of last year’s team graduated and good material is present from last year’s freshman
team. Of the number of players out, Halverstadt picks Brown, Elvery, Haskell, Ballou for the top positions.

Ballot for All-Time Davidson Team

Guard
Tackle
End
Quarterback
Halfback
Halfback
Fullback

MY ALL-TIME DAVIDSON FOOTBALL TEAM

(For your convenience, the following incomplete list of outstanding Davidson College football players is printed. It does not contain all
of the brightest stars by any means, but it may serve to recall some who otherwise might be temporarily beyond
recollection. It also shows that picking an All-Time Davidson team is a real task:)

ENDS—Elias Faison, DeWitt Baker, DeWitt Klutz, Thad Brock, George King, Hugh Arrowood, Jim Morgan, Jim Pinckney, Shrimp Morris, Bob Fetzer,
Oren Moore, Monk Younger, J. W. Moore, Lum Richardson, Bob Walker, Nappy Davis, Ernest Bohannon, Bud Raker, Morrison Caldwell, Ralph
Sadler.

TACKLES—Bud Raker, Lawrence Hammett, Tom (Brazzie) Baker, Jack Wagner, Ernest Bohannon, Flake Laird, Henry Cathey, Big Liz Cashion, W. R.
(Shack) Moore, Howell, Dick Whitfield, LeRoy Dunn, Barnco Baker, Rooster McFadden.

GUARDS—Harry Vance, Billy Sayad, Hugh Grey, Jack Wagner, Charlie Rives, Thad Brock, Sook Boggs, Tom (Brazzie) Baker, John Melton, Doc
Mathis, SamDavis, A. J. Potter, Fatty Axford, Big Daniels.

CENTERS—Bruce Edgerton, Joe B. Johnston, Joe McConnell, Buddie Gardner, Ben Mallory, E. T. Stockard, Ed White, Percy McElrath, Spence.

QUARTERBACKS—Johnny Mackorell, James (Stejay) Wyman, Nick Sappenfield, Jimmy Hendrix, Tiny Graham, Sam Keesler, Latimer McClintock, Bo Elliott, Spann, Walter Fraley,
Don King, Ed Wilson.

HALFBACKS—Red Johnson, Jimmy Hendrix, Johnny Mackorell, James (Stejay) Wyman, Buck Flowers, Everett Booe, Bill Fetzer, Dick Grey, Charlie Pearce, Joe
McCall, Dewey Hutchins, Dick Flinn, Jack Black, Tim Pharr, Steve Walker, Gig Shepherd, Doc DeArmon, Mutt Nesbit, Bob Kell, John
James, Bob Denny.

FULLBACKS—Jack Black, Lucien Wells, Red Johnson, Wick Black, Doc DeArmon, Eb Willson, Hamilton (Poss) McKay, Johnny Mackorell, Gid Shepherd, Everett
Booe, McKinnon, Burns, Tom Brohard, Don McQueen, Smallwood, Hutchison, Ben Lacy, Farmer Moore, H. F. Morton, Clarence Clark.

Hornbeck, Garrett, Lafferty, Phifer, Scott and Tee and Wee Thompson as good possibilities. Martin Barnett, W. F. Bell and Carlyle
Lewis, sophomores, are also reported to hold much promise.

The team will leave March 28 for its Southern trip, encountering the University of Florida at Gainesville on the 30th,
Rollins College at Winter Park on the 31st. Entering Georgia, they will meet Emory and Georgia at Atlanta on April
2nd and 3rd, respectively. The team meets Furman at Greenville on the 4th of April and the University of South
Carolina on the 5th of April.

Halverstadt and Thompson are planning to have the schedule as representative as possible, meeting two schools in Florida, Georgia, South
Carolina, North Carolina and Virginia. With this in mind, tentative matches have been arranged with the University of Richmond, William
and Mary, and Duke.

A tryout tournament to be held the second week in March will decide the membership of the team and the
week following a tryout will be held for the freshmen. Steady practice has already begun and a backboard has been
built on the court for varsity use.

The recently elected junior managers of the tennis team are Bob Smith and Ed Garrett.

Freshman Win From Fallston High Team

In an interesting but one-sided basketball game played in the local gym last Friday night, the Davidson freshmen had little
trouble in defeating the Fallston High School team, 40-17. The Fallston team, coached by Bill Goodson, former Davidson cage captain
and all-state performer in 1931, was leading the frosh at the end of the first quarter, 9-8, with Wright, Fallston
forward, scoring eight points in that quarter. The freshmen had the upper hand from then on until the final whistle,
and had a safe lead of 16-12 at the half. It was in the third quarter that the frosh tallied
16 points and went into the overwhelming lead of 32-15, with Peabody and Cathey leading the attack. Numerous substitutions were
made in the final quarter, but the fresh continued to chalk up additional scores and the game ended in their
favor, 40-17. Peabody led the field in points scored, netting 14 points, all on field goals. Wright was second high
scorer with 10 points.

Line-up:

Fallston (17) Posi. Dav. (40)
Wright, T. (10) R.F. Porter (3)
Hoyle (2) L.F. Knorr (7)
Royster (1) Center Cathey (9)
Hamrick (1) R.G. Peabody (14)
Fortenbury (1) L.G. Quick (6)

Substitutes—Fallston: Ledford (2), Wright, C.; Davidson: Branton, Peters, Woodward (1), Barnes.

Robinson, Gracey, V. P. I. DEFEATED BY CAT QUINTET IN CLOSE FIGHT

However, Team Loses to University of Virginia and William and Mary

MORGAN HIGH SCORER

Davidson Five Shows Better Shooting Ability on Virginia Trip

The Davidson varsity basketball team played a series of games in Virginia last week, being the guests of V. P.
I., the University of Virginia, and William and Mary. The Wildcats were victorious in but one of the three games,
winning from V. P. I., 32-28, and losing to the University of Virginia and William and Mary by the scores
of 25-43 and 19-31, respectively.

Their first game was with V. P. I. at Blacksburg, which the Wildcats won after a hard struggle, although the
Davidson team held the lead for the greater part of the game. Before the half the Wildcats had shown their
superiority in running up a 19-14 lead. During the second half the two teams played on practically even terms, but
the Cadets were unable to overcome the lead that the Wildcats had gained.

Jim Morgan was the high scorer, tallying 13 points, with six field goals and one free throw. He was followed
closely by Cessna of V. P. I. with 12 points, and Ross of Davidson with 11 points.

The line-up:

Davidson Posi. V. P. I.
Harris (4) R.F. Cessna (12)
Lafferty (3) L.F. Thomas (8)
Morgan (13) Center Stump (0)
Holland (1) R.G. Palmer (4)
Ross (11) L.G. Stevens (0)

Substitutes—Davidson: Windham; V. P. I.: Mohler.

The Wildcats were not so successful in their second game, which was with the University of Virginia and was played
at Charlottesville. The Cavaliers piled up an early lead, playing the 'Cats by the one-sided score of 21-5. However, before
the half time the 'Cats staged a rally which left them behind, 12-23, at intermission, and after only ten minutes
of play they were leading. Shortly after the final half began, the Cavaliers, led by Strum and Marret, put on
a scoring spree which put the Virginia team out in the lead, 36-12. Then as subs were sent in, the
Wildcats began a final rally and pulled up to make the score 25-43 when the game ended.

Two Virginia men held the high scoring honors, Strum with 18 points and Marret with 12. Charlie Harris led the
Davidson team and placed third, accounting for 11 points, nine of which were field goals.

SLEEP LATE and DINE WITH US

LITTLE PEP SANDWICH SHOP

“BABY”

Davidson Theatre

WEDNESDAY “THE BOWERY” WALLACE BEERY—GEORGE RAFT JACKIE COOPER

THURSDAY “EASY TO LOVE” ADOLPHE MENJOU—MARY ASTOR—GENEVIEVE TOBIN—EDW. EVERETT HORTON

FRIDAY “THE BIG SHAKEDOWN” CHARLES FARRELL—BETTE DAVIS RICARDO CORTEZ

SATURDAY “MISS LANE’S BABY IS STOLEN” DOROTHEA WIECK—ALICE BRADY

MONDAY “SIX OF A KIND” CHARLES RUGGLES—MARY BOLAND—GEORGE BURNS—GRACIE ALLEN—W. C. FIELDS

TUESDAY “THE PRIVATE LIFE OF HENRY VIII” ALISON SKIPWORTH CHARLES LAUGHTON
