THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 7, 1934

CLUB INITIATES NEW MEMBER

Two Professors And Eight Students Receive Bids From Le Cercle Francais

The purpose of the last meeting of Le Cercle Francais was to initiate new members into its order. The following
men accepted the bids, and were duly initiated: Professor Sylvain S. Minault, Professor Ernest A. Beaty, Val Cassells, James C.
Cothran, J. Woodrow Hassell, Carlyle Lewis, John S. McMullen, William F. Peirce, James H. Simpson, and Thomas F. Wood, Jr.

The first thing on the program for the night of initiation was a play, “Ceux qui Passent,” which was given
by four of the newly initiated members, J. W. Hassell, C. B. Lewis, J. H. Simpson, and V. Cassell. This
play involved the adventures of a thief in a doctor's office, and was excellently portrayed by these inexperienced but talented
actors.

Next on the program came the business of the circle which was followed by three talks. The first of these
was a very interesting description of life in Canada by Jim Cothran. Following this, McMullen gave a recitation on “A
Chicken and its Biddies.” The last of these three talks was a very interesting and humorous talk by Professor Minault
on “Life in French Schools.”

After the talks, French games were played and French songs were sung. Refreshments were then served, and soon the very
successful meeting adjourned.

Davidson Prepares For Carolina Game

(Continued from Page 4)

Don, who added to his record of glory last week by making a 50-yard sprint through Tech's line for a
touchdown, has attracted much attention among sports enthusiasts, and his ability as a ball carrier and a passer has placed
him among the ranks of the great. Barclay has been termed “the one-man team,” since he, although a guard, calls
plays, runs their interference, backs up the line, makes touchdowns, and does numerous other things in expert style. Last season,
due to his uncanny ability to diagnose plays and to block punts and intercept passes, he scored more touchdowns than
any back on the squad, save one. He has received much praise from coaches and officials during his three years
on the varsity. Some of the comments are as follows:

Coach Bob Neyland of Tennessee: “One of the best men ever to play against Tennessee. I have seen few who
can equal him as a charging guard. He is in every play.”

Coach Chet Wynne of Kentucky: “That boy Barclay is All-American so far as I’m concerned. He certainly played a brilliant
game against us.”

“All-Southern, All-Anything, All-Anything,” said Coach Bill Alexander who is a member of the All-American board, after seeing Barclay stop three-fourths
of Georgia Tech’s rushes single-handed.

“The most outstanding player on the field,” said Coach Wallace Wade of Rose Bowl fame.

WE HAVE THE NEW DIMENSION “BODY-SIZED” SHIRT

Three body-sizes with each collar-size, giving a custom-tailored body-fit. Riegel inaugurates a line of brand new, faultlessly tailored broadcloth shirts,
BODY-SIZED to give the smart fit of an expensive, custom-made shirt. Come in and try one. White or blue broadcloth.
Sanforized. Price, $1.95. Packed individually — ready to wear — without pins or cardboards.

Men’s Shop—Street Floor

Writer Reviews History Of ’Cat Football Games

(Continued from Page 4)

be formed on the right of the line, the left guard and tackle would put out and with the backs
would form a wedge on the right end. The fullback stood behind the right end and received the ball from
the quarterback. Once the ball was received the wedge plowed its way through. This play was ruled out because of
the danger involved. Looking at a picture of the team in

Marshal Ney Originator Of Davidson Seal

(Continued from Page 6)

his coffin that night. He must surely have done this for we next hear of him being helped aboard the
ship “City of Philadelphia” by two friends. Other French refugees recognized him on board, but he always insisted that “Marshal
Ney had been executed two weeks before in Paris.” The ship finally reached Charleston, S. C., and it was there
that Marshal Ney,

Our Contemporaries

(Continued from Page 2)

hardy mascot for years has passed on to the animal hunting ground, and his two heirs, softened by a life
of ease, are not robust enough to carry their father’s mantle. So a tough youngster from the western plains has
been summoned to become King Bill V. Students at the University of Ohio who wear their R. O. T. C.
uniforms at the football games and who sit in a special section for cheering will be admitted to the game
free of charge. Co-eds at

Six Seniors Tapped By Omicron Delta Kappa

(Continued from Page 1)

orable mention for All-American. Mackorell has also made a letter for the past two years in baseball. He is on
the Dean’s list.

William L. Northern, a member of Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity, is manager of the varsity football team this year.
He has been actively connected with the musical organizations on the

The initiation of the new men will take place in the near future although a definite date has not been
set. It is reported that one or two alumni who have been given honorary memberships will be initiated at this
time.

The active student members in the Delta Circle include G. H. Brown, president; Dewey Hutchins, Fred McPhail, A. J. Potter,
R. H. Smith, W. P. Sprunt, Jr., vice-president, and K. D. Weeks. Professor H. E. Fulcher is secretary and treasurer
of the Circle.

the 1898 annual we notice the peculiar now “Peter Stuart” Ney, began his

campus and is this year a Lieutenant in

lineup. The linemen, instead of crouch-American exile. He is known to have a weak chin and was in the R.O.T.C.
Band. Mrs. W. N. Mebane entertained her Sunday School Class Friday night at a supper and movie party. The best
marks on a freshman test were made by Percy Mims Rogers, a member of the Pan Hellenic Council composed of
representatives of all the social fraternities on the campus. He is also a member of the Forensic Council and several
other honorary fraternities.

Sherwood Anderson addressed V.P.I. students on October 26th. One hundred new college presidents assumed office with the opening of this
fall's term. With the opening of its term last month, Columbia University started its 181st academic year. Hulda Stettler, the
canning champion of the United States, has enrolled at the University of Wisconsin. At N.C. State College, a whistle is
blown at eight-thirty o'clock to denote the study hour.

Dr. Detlev W. Bronk, professor of biophysics at the University of Pennsylvania, thinks that much of the criticism directed toward
scholars in public life is justified. George Wingfield is vice-president of the Athletic Association and is playing his third year
of varsity football. This year he made letters in baseball and track. He is a member of the "D" Club
and his record as an athlete at Davidson College has been notable. He is affiliated with the Kappa Sigma fraternity.

The ferocious looks on the faces of the linemen are "something awful." We also notice that the center holds the
ball with the ends to the linemen. The regular pass from center in the North was a dipole. This worked
fine on the smooth practice field, but the Charlotte field, where the game was played, was covered with stubby broomstraw
and the results were nearly disastrous. That was the last time the ball was rolled back.

The early teams were allowed 3 downs to make 5 yards. Tactics employed were always mass tactics and there was
little broken-field running, although Professor F. L. Blythe, 1904, tells of a player, Stanley Wyman, who had the practice of
hurdling the safety man as he wended his way toward a touchdown. Ney was buried in the Third Creek Presbyterian
church yard in Rowan County, N.C. This inscription may still be seen at the grave: "In memory of Peter Stuart
Ney, a native of France and soldier of the French Revolution under Napoleon Bonaparte, who departed this life November 15th,
1846, aged 77 years."

Whistling has been banned at the University of Alabama because too many students whistle off key. In a psychology test
at Los Angeles Junior College, an experiment to determine the pet "peeves" was given. Men deemed baby talk the worst,
while women most detested dates who kept them waiting.

In 1899, a petition was sent to the faculty and board of trustees which was granted, allowing the students to
enter more thoroughly into the practice of intercollegiate football. Dr. Martin, later President of the institution, was made faculty adviser
to the athletic committee. Dr. Henry Louis Smith, another future president of the college, Dr. W. R. Grey, Dr. C.
R. Harding, Dr. J. L. Douglas, and Prof. T. P. Harrison were among the faculty members prominent in the athletics
movement.

(To Be Continued)

Rev. Elzie Myers of the Davidson Methodist Church has returned from the M.E. Conference in Greensboro. He has been reassigned
as pastor of this church.

—and the boys smoked them
—and the girls raked in the nickels and the dimes
—and they sang “a hot time in the old town”
