THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 18, 1934

The Davidsonian

FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

Member of Associated Collegiate Press

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

Printed by the STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: Ten cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate year.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1879.

Articles for publication must be in the hands of the Editors by 4:00 o'clock p.m., Monday. Letters to the editor
are welcomed and all letters intended for publication must be signed.

KENNETH D. WARE Editor
WILLIAM T. JOHNSON Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
MARTIN BROWNE Managing Editor
LAMONT BROWN Sports Editor
HARVEY GIBSON Sports Editor
PAUL HARRIS Managing Editor
TOM SMITH Managing Editor
JOHN DOE Managing Editor
JANE DOE Associate Editor
JACK SMITH Associate Editor
JILL DOE Associate Editor
JAMES DOE Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
L. GREEN Advertising Manager
M. SPRUNT Circulation Manager
TAYLOR Assistant Manager
A. C. WADSWORTH Assistant Manager

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 18, 1934

The way to learn to use good words is to read some good literature often and carefully, intensively, not extensively.
—Bertrand Russell.

ASSUMING OUR NEW DUTIES

Beginning with this issue, the new staff takes charge of the “Davidsonian.” In doing so we feel a lack of
confidence in ourselves without the guidance of the retiring staff to maintain the high degree of success which the editor
and his co-workers have shown in editing the paper during the past year. However, mindful of this fact, we do
set out with honest and diligent endeavor in assuming our new duties which the student body has entrusted to us.

I, the new editor, feel that in name only can I succeed Odi Casali, the retiring editor, and cannot amply
replace him in the efficient capacity which he has served this year. As the paper changes editors from year to
year, changes are made which may be considered as improvements or which may be considered the reverse of this. The
most notable change that the retiring editor made was the addition of a sixth column which was a decided improvement
as it makes our news organ look more like a real newspaper and provides for an additional amount of news.
The student body is fully aware of the fact that he has done much in making our “Davidsonian” a bigger
and better paper.

It would be difficult to state here a policy to be followed throughout 1934 and 1935. The paper carries with
it year in and year out more or less the same policy due to the fact that certain limitations are
placed upon it. Any decided change, therefore, is difficult to show regardless of the desires of the editor. We will
strive, as far as possible within our bounds, to improve the paper where the opportunity presents itself, to record news
that is interesting and correct, and to keep the paper in close touch with every Davidson College student.

There will be five more issues of the “Davidsonian” this school year. In these five issues there will be considerable
changes which will serve as an experiment in helping the new staff to make certain choices and in determining the
best plan to follow.

The editorial page will be a place where student opinions and criticisms may find expression. Every student is reminded of
the fact that he has free access to this page provided the editorial is deemed advisable to print. Editorials will
not be printed just for the sake of filling space, but only when the subject is justifiable and appropriate. Nor
will any editorial be printed which will tend to antagonize or cause hard feelings.

SEVERAL CHANGES APPEAR IN THIS ISSUE

In this the initial issue of the “Davidsonian” by the new staff appear several changes in the make-up in the
way of news features. In the past there have appeared on this page several feature columns including “HERE AND THERE,”
“NEWS DIGEST” and the exchange column.

For one of these will be substituted a new feature beginning this issue. This new feature will be devoted to
information concerning radio artists and programs. Now that radios have become legalized here and so many students have radios in
their rooms, it was thought that this column would be interesting and helpful to those that listen in.

Another feature will probably be added. However, none of these new changes may be considered as permanent. For the next
four issues several changes will be made and different features tried out in order to select those which best meet
with the approval of the readers. Students are urged to make known their approval or disapproval of these new features.

CONCERNING DAVIDSON’S RELIGIOUS INDIFFERENCE

The Y. M. C. A. installation service held in Chambers Auditorium last Sunday night at the usual vesper hour was
most impressive. Anyone who attended this service could not have helped being impressed and inspired by the solemnity and sincereness
of it.

Walter Sprunt, the newly elected president of the organization, in accepting the final challenge of the retiring president, made a
statement in the course of his talk which only a small percentage of Davidson students realize. He said that the
student body and the Y. M. C. A. were one, that the Y. M. C. A. was the student body
and that the student body was the Y. M. C. A. Most of us get very little out of this
organization, that is, little that we are conscious of, because we put so little into it.

Another statement which applies to the Davidson student body in general and which is one of the biggest obstacles in
the work of the Y. M. C. A. was made by Rufus Morrow when he said that the most prevalent
sin on the Davidson campus was that of “religious indifference.”

An article published in a recent issue of the College Humor deals with a condition present at another college which
is very similar to the “religious indifference” prevalent here at Davidson. The article in part reads:

“The two million dollar chapel recently built at Princeton has not only failed to gain a real grip on the
students but is steadily losing even what little respect its great dignity and beauty did inspire at the start,” says
William Poole, Princeton ’31 and the son of Ernest Poole. “Some call it the Two Million Dollar Protest Against Materialism;
more commonly it is known as ‘Moby Dick.’ A whale of a building—only that. Why hasn’t the money bought what
it paid for?

“Students hoped that in this new chapel the same freedom would be accorded to us as is granted to undergraduates
abroad and in a few colleges in this country—freedom to decide for ourselves whether or not we should go to
church. The authorities, however, refused and held to compulsory chapel on Sunday. Long ago they had given up compulsory weekday
chapel. Compared to what our fathers had in the rigid old Presbyterian days, it was distinctly ‘light wines and beer.’
But even this mild dose was too much... . Lectures on religious subjects replaced regular chapel service, but little interest
was stirred. Yawning crowds of young fellows, back from gay weekends in New York and Philadelphia on Sunday nights, are
hardly an inspiring audience to a preacher.

“One reason for this listless attitude is the fact that in many cases parents and families have been as indifferent
as the sons. Not that we are complaining of this lack of religious training. In such matters, we believe, we
should be left to think for ourselves. But when we made the effort, we found so much thinking to be
done that we got lost in the woods and came to no deep convictions or faith. At Princeton, also, it
is distinctly bad form to show enthusiasm or serious interest in anything whatsoever. So how could we dare get excited
about this subject of religion, even if we cared to?

“Possibly,” Poole concludes, “the depression may work out a change in the attitude of the undergrad ten years from now.
He will be brought up to think and to feel in ways unknown to us. If he does, he may
bring to college a new and larger attitude which will not be ashamed of enthusiasms. Will any chapel be able
to hold it all? Or will the new religion be larger than any house of God?”

Eleven college men were asked to give briefly their thoughts on religion, and the results, printed under their photographs, afford
an interesting symposium of the prevailing attitude of the younger generation toward the church.

Here and There

A survey made by New York University has revealed “bull sessions” to be detrimental to scholarship.

From 10 to 12 Purdue University graduates are securing employment each week through the activities of that institution’s personnel bureau.

Radio Log

Ponselle, Martini, Stueckgold: Rosa Ponselle, world-famous soprano; Nino Martini, noted radio tenor, and Grete Stueckgold, popular concert singer, sing the
best-loved American songs of yesterday and today in a new series of broadcasts over the Columbia network. A 40-piece orchestra
and a chorus of 16 voices, directed by the nationally known CBS conductor, Andre Kostelanetz, accompany the vocalists and present
unusual arrangements of modern dance tunes and ballads. These excellent programs are presented under the auspices of Liggett & Myers
Tobacco Company, in behalf of Chesterfield Cigarettes, and are broadcast from 9:00 to 9:30 p.m., EST, every Monday, Wednesday and
Saturday. In this series, both Miss Ponselle and Grete Stueckgold are taking part in a regular radio series for the
first time.

Downey: Morton Downey has returned to the air recently to begin on the NBC network a twice-weekly schedule. He sings
each Tuesday at 6:45 p.m., in his own fifteen-minute recital, and again on Saturdays on the “Saturday Revue” at 8:00
p.m., as star soloist and master of ceremonies.

Cantor-Durante: This past Sunday night broadcast was the last radio appearance for Eddie Cantor until he returns next fall to
resume his Chase and Sanborn broadcasts, October 7th. During his absence, Jimmy “Schnozzle” Durante will appear on this program at
8:00 p.m., NBC.

Debating: A debating team representing three Eastern universities, Columbia, Princeton and Yale, will contest with debaters from three Western institutions,
Washington University, Stanford, and University of Southern California on the subject, “Resolved, That the States Ratify the Pending Child Labor
Amendment.” The former group will broadcast from New York, and the latter from Los Angeles. NBC, 4:00 p.m. Saturday.

Al Jolson: While Al Jolson is vacationing, Nikita Balieff, creator of “Chauve Souris,” the Russian revue, which has toured America
three times, will join Paul Whiteman’s radio show on April 26th.

Alexander Woollcott: The Town Crier, Alexander Woollcott, is being replaced by James Thurber, of New Yorker fame, on Thursday at
10:45, and byRoy Helton, Saturdays, 9:30. Benny: Jack Benny, Mary Livingstone (his wife), and the remainder of the old Chevrolet
troupe, are now appearing on the General Tire program, Friday nights at 10:30, NBC. GUY LOMBARDO and His Royal Canadians
have left the Cocoanut Grove in Los Angeles, where they have been playing and doing cinema work in Hollywood, and
are now on a personal appearance tour. GLADYS SWARTHOUT and John Barclay may be heard over the NBC network Tuesday
at 10:00 p.m., in famous operettas, on the Palmolive Beauty Box Theatre program. Recent presentations have been “The Desert Song,”
“The Vagabond King,” and “The Rogue Song.” FRED WARING and His Pennsylvanians present a talented guest artist on their program
each Sunday night, CBS, at 8:30. Recent soloists have been Marion Talley, George Gershwin, and Ezio Pinza. HARRIET HILLIARD, who
is singer with Ozzie Nelson’s Band on the Joe Penner Baker broadcasts, has been signed for fifteen more months. HAL
KEMP and His International Favorites have been replaced at the Black Hawk Restaurant in Chicago by Seymour Simon and his
band. Hal is on tour. JOHN DREW COLT, son of Ethel Barrymore, has been added to the cast of Five
Star Final. DON BESTOR and JACK BENNY are on the same program again, after appearing on the same bill for
ten weeks with the old Orpheum vaudeville circuit in 1927. BERNIE CUMMINGS is now presiding over the beautiful Trianon Ballroom
in Chicago, in the absence of Jan Garber. TED FIORITO is composer of many song hits, two of which are
“Laugh, Clown, Laugh,” and “Three On A Match.” VIVIAN JANIS sings with Leon Belasco’s orchestra over the CBS from the
San Moritz in the early evening, and then appears in the current Ziegfeld Follies. BILLY HILL’S compositions have proved to
be very famous: “Old Spinning Wheel,” “Last Roundup,” “Wagon Wheels,” and “Have You Ever Been Lonely.” The last hit was
written under the nom de plume of George Brown.

Dick Cathey Elected To Sophomore Office

In the Freshman elections held last Thursday and Friday, Dick Cathey was elected vice-president of the rising Sophomore class for
the coming year. As this went to press, three men, J. D. Allen, R. H. Sadler, and J. W. Dickson,
survived the list of the six men that were voted on Saturday for the position of secretary and treasurer of
the class. In the nominations held Thursday for vice-president, the following men were nominated: Dick Cathey, Maurice Peabody, Dermot Shemwell,
R. B. Stewart, J. T. Morton, and W. A. Stuckey. The final ballot on Friday contained the names of Cathey,
Morton, and Stewart. The eight men that were nominated Friday and voted on Saturday for secretary and treasurer were: J.
D. Allen, W. A. Broadway, Stewart Barnes, J. A. Dickson, J. W. Dickson, J. W. Gaw, Ralph McClelland, and R.
H. Sadler.

The Broadcaster

Introducing a new feature, Title: The Broadcaster. Writer: No. Purpose: To put Davidson students on the spot. Duration: As long
as the editor lets me continue. Note: The Davidsonian does not necessarily accept all the views and comments held by
the writer of this column.

Gentlemen, it is indeed difficult to begin a new feature. But what difference does it make? Maybe no one will
read it anyway. But I do want to say that it has been my ambition for some time to write
a column of my own. Now my big moment has come; the editor has willingly consented to give me a
chance; my first writing is about to appear, and now I don’t know a darn thing to write about. Such
is life. When your big opportunity arises, you don’t know exactly what to do about it.

What you need in a feature making its debut is something to attract attention. Perhaps I should say something like
this: It’s stupendous! It’s gigantic! It’s colossal! In fact, it’s not fit to read! But that’s not so hot. I
can’t even be funny. Let me say in the beginning that this is not my column. Yes, I'll take the
blame for it, but this is YOUR column. Here’s your chance to publish your views. Here’s your opportunity to get
your name in the paper, or your name will be withheld at your request. Now you can get back on
the other fellow by writing any scandal you want. Just gamble a postcard and send it to The Broadcaster, in
care of the editor of the Davidsonian, and if he doesn’t tear it up, I'll get it. And if you
want this column to discontinue, just write me something and I’ll probably kick the bucket.

Now, dear readers, if you have gone this far, do you want to know what is wrong with this campus?
There are two things which prevail around here that have grown monotonous. They are two S's. The first is a
“shine” and the second is a “smooch.” Do you get what I mean? A Davidson student cannot go through a
day without hearing something about these two things. He cannot be original or do something out of the ordinary without
being called a “shine.” A fellow cannot be humorous or witty without “shining.” If he displays a fancy dance step;
if he makes a witty announcement in chapel to attract attention to the announcement; if he does anything different from
a reserved and dignified college student, he is called a “shine.” Well, after all, he may in reality be “shining,”
but I still hold that this phrase prevalent on the campus is run into the ground.

The other phrase is probably more overdone than the first, and that is termed “smooching.” This, as you know, is
associated mostly with the student and the professor. You remember that when you came to Davidson, you were urged to
go to visit the professors as often as possible. If you ask some graduates of Davidson about what they thought
was one of the best things at Davidson, more than likely they will say that it was the feeling of
congeniality between the student and the professor. Now if you even walk across the campus with a professor, you are
“smooching.” This attitude should not be taken, and the student and professor should be able to converse together without the
other students standing aside and accusing the student of picking for a higher grade.

What can be done about these two irregularities? Absolutely nothing. What is once started at Davidson becomes a tradition, and
it takes more than editorials, talks, and insignificant column writers to change the tradition. Well, so long until next week—that
is, if the editor lets me continue.

Dick

On Other Campuses

The Keydets at V. M. I. have taken drastic steps to modify their existing “Rat System” for first-year men. Hazing
at the institute has in the past been fashionable, to say the least—severe. The immediate cause for this sudden elimination
of this ancient custom was to prevent the dismissal of two first classmen who were connected in a case of
hazing last week. The First and Second classes signed a pledge “to refrain from any unauthorized physical punishment, and to
prevent any physical hazing whatever.” (The old order changeth, and in this “new deal” the rats are holding the cards.)

“To Arms! To Arms!” was the cry of the freshmen at N. C. State when the vice-president of the Sophomore
class issued a challenge to a battle of some kind. Boys will be boys! Committees from both classes have been
appointed to make further plans for the occasion.

The R. O. T. C. Department at Presbyterian College is quoted as “being pleased to note the tremendous improvement in
the health of members of the cadet corps”—the catch was that all absences had to be made up at a
special drill on each Monday afternoon.

According to “The Ring-Tum Phi,” Jan Garber, the Idol of the Airwaves, has been signed to play for the “Finals”
again at Washington and Lee University.

For the last several issues of the school paper at W. & L., there has appeared a column correctly called,
according to an editorial in the same paper, “The Unread Law.” This article has attempted to bring to the students
at the university the faulty and inconsistent Constitution and By-Laws of the student body, and it was very critical. One
would immediately think that the entire student group would have risen in arms at even the slight intimation of such
a thing, but the article did not get even a rise!

D. C. DEBATERS LOSE TWICE IN PAST WEEK

(Continued from page 1)

President every time who would be capable of handling increased power. Both men made a vigorous attack on the indefiniteness
of the proposals of the affirmative side, declaring that the burden of proof lay with that side and they were
not putting forth any definite plans of increasing the President’s power.

The order of speaking was Stutts of Davidson, Terry of Florida, Smith of Davidson, and Wurm of Florida. The judges
were Professors Gwynn, Erwin, and Schenck. At the close of the debate the judges, voting by secret ballot, rendered a
decision in favor of the Florida team.

In the Saturday night debate, J. H. Fitzgerald and E. J. Humphrey, representing Davidson, upheld the affirmative side, while Jack
Murchison and Donald G. Myers, representing Wake Forest, ably presented the negative side of the query.

The order of speaking was Fitzgerald of Davidson, Murchison of Wake Forest, Humphrey of Davidson, and Myers of Wake Forest.
Judges for the debate were Rev. R. A. White, W. C. Thompson, and Rev. Mr. Myers. Owing to a musical
concert scheduled for the same hour, the debates were held in Professor Currie’s classroom instead of in the Chambers Auditorium.

Fitzgerald, in opening the debate, pointed to examples from history in which the President had needed more power immediately. Humphrey
came to his colleague’s aid in declaring that the changes proposed by the affirmative were not radical or drastic, and
that they did not lead to any new form of government. The affirmative in its constructive criticism advocated the following
measures: Presidential control of the credit structure, control of the tariff, power to veto items in an appropriation bill, and
power over the public purse.

In its turn, the negative, led by Murchison, contended that the President already has sufficient power in his hands and
pointed out the evils of one-man governments in other parts of the world. Attention was also called to the fact
that in this time of emergency the powers of the President were not proved as valuable as settled policies.

In the rebuttals, each side aimed powerful and well-directed attacks at the arguments of their opponents in a final effort
to prove their arguments. The judges, after some deliberation, rendered a decision in favor of the visiting team from Wake
Forest.
