THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 21, 1934

The Davidsonian

FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

Member of Associated Collegiate Press

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

Printed by the STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: Ten cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate year.

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879.

All matter for publication must be in the hands of the Editors by 12:00 P.M., Monday. Letters to the Editor are welcomed but must be signed.

EDITORIAL STAFF
W. T. JOHNSON...........Editor
G. L. GULLETTE..........Managing Editor
E. F. McPHAIL...........Associate Editor
B. L. ROSENBERG.........Associate Editor
K. D. WEAVER............Associate Editor
RANE HELLINGER.........Associate Editor
RAWLING PRATT-THOMAS..Editorial Writer
A. H. HUNTER.............Sports Editor
J. B. BAILEY..............Feature Editor
S. K. EATON..............Feature Editor
C. S. McCALL.............Feature Editor
L. W. CLARDY.............Art Editor
A. F. STEELE.............Art Editor
W. M. THOMPSON..........Associate Editor
JACK WILLIAMS, JR.......Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
G. L. GREEN..............Business Manager
W. L. SPRUNT.............Assistant Manager
R. TAYLOR................Assistant Manager
A. C. WADSWORTH.........Assistant Manager

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 21, 1934

Labor begets manhood. —Euripides.

RADIOS IN THE DORMITORIES

Following a petition by the President of the Student Body, students are now allowed to have radios in their rooms. This comes after the efforts of Mrs. N. T. Smith and Julian West to get more enjoyment for the students in their college lives. This plan being nothing more than a trial this year, students owning radios should give their support to the few regulations that have been placed on them. In this way, there should be no trouble, and radios will be allowed permanently, instead of as an experiment. This is one ruling that is pleasant to all those students concerned. However, if they will not show their appreciation of the levity allowed them, the privilege will be taken away, tending towards more cooperation among the students.

The restrictions are simple: merely to register the radios. This is the one rule that all must follow. Then when a student shows so little appreciation as to have complaints made against his radio, three of these will cause him to lose it for the balance of the year. With such reasonable rules, there would be no excuse for anyone to lose his radio, and the doing of such would be entirely through his own carelessness. That conditions are included in the Radio Regulation is only natural, and made entirely for the consideration of others, which should be. It would be hard to study with too much music, and the regulations are listed for this reason. Mrs. Smith and Julian West are to be congratulated upon their success in getting the ban on radios lifted. It is laws such as these that cause closer cooperation between students and faculty.

“D” CLUB’S NEW CONSTITUTION

Dr. W. L. Lingle recently stated in chapel that a school can be judged by its athletic teams. I would like to add that a school is just as frequently judged by the way it treats visiting teams. Taking care of visiting teams, one of the chief functions of the D Club, is unobserved by the student body, but is a force that spreads pro-Davidson feeling among other colleges and helps to get athletes here from high schools.

Another one of the quiet actions of the D Club recently came forth unobserved, but is of great significance. A number of amendments to the club’s constitution, instigated by some of the members and approved by the coaches, were made in their last meeting. The altered constitution was published in the last issue of “The Davidsonian” so that every student might see the part which he takes in it. This is specified in Article No. 2 under the head of “Method of Supporting Training Regulations,” which states that the D Club shall make public the training regulations and names of the members of each squad. But the following article under the same heading put the strength in it. It provided that men accused of violating training rules shall be tried by the D Club, and if found guilty by two-thirds of the members, he shall be dropped from the athletic squad.

This amendment caused no more discussion than the others on attendance and membership, but each man in the club felt, as he voted for the measure, that he was doing more than simply voting for a new rule. The Honor System has worked well at Davidson for many years and proves it is a high type school. This measure goes right in line with that system, and embellishes it with a praiseworthy example of students’ moral responsibility. This is a strong moral code that will work, and no doubt will improve our athletic teams both in ability and spirit. Spirit has rarely been lacking in the famous fighting Wildcat teams, but a few unsuccessful seasons of late have caused a current of feeling that a little more strict adherence to the training rules by some men would have crowned more of that spirit with success. It is with this view that the D Club has taken upon itself the duty of raising training standards to a maximum. I believe that all Davidson men are behind this move, and for this reason it will succeed. One man will surely suffer from this policy, but all the rest will benefit by his misfortune. I think the D Club should be congratulated for its fine move for finer teams and finer men on the teams. —G. L. G.

PERHAPS A WORD OR TWO

Few students realize that their professors and instructors, besides being teachers, also have as one of their duties the giving of counsel and advice. If a student is failing, or not doing as well in a course as he ought to be, he should go to his instructor, find out why he is not succeeding in his work and learn how to go about raising his grade. If the instructor is intent on carrying out his duties, he will listen understandingly to all who come to him. However, the regular procedure in such cases like this is far from ideal. The student who thinks he deserves a high grade, but who receives a low one, goes off to his room and sulks, tells his friends his professor is a villain, and becomes generally embittered. The professor decides that this student is not sufficiently interested in his work and continues to give him low grades. And so the situation, at best a rather foolish one.

There is a great difference between going to see a professor to try to understand why one is not succeeding in his work, and outright “boot-licking” for high grades. Fear of being accused of doing the latter keeps many boys from doing the former. Examinations are not far away. It is pretty unpleasant to fail a course when one feels that he deserves to pass. Let’s think about this with the professor—maybe a little talk will help. —The Florida Alligator.

Here and There

“Good order and justice—that is the religion of democracy,” Dr. William L. Bryan, president of Indiana University, declared recently.

Exactly $6,360.00 was distributed to students at Indiana University as their first CWA pay check.

A revolving stage is being used in a current production of the University of Nebraska Temple Theater Players.

Governor George White of Ohio led the list of chaperones for the Ohio State University prom this year.

A course in aeronautics will be offered at the University of Kentucky as a CWA project.

A very fancy hothouse lamb produced by the Pennsylvania State College Agriculturalists has been purchased by Secretary of the Treasury Morgenthau to be served at a dinner in honor of President Roosevelt.

A serum that is claimed to be a 100 percent cure for whooping cough has been perfected by Prof. Louis W. Sauer of the University of Chicago Medical School.

A special study of hypnotism is being made by scientists of the College of the City of New York.

The Illinois legislature has asked the attorney general of that state to investigate the merger of Chicago and Northwestern Universities.

Frances Perkins, Secretary of Labor in President Roosevelt’s cabinet, was known as Fanny Cora Perkins when she was a member of the Mount Holyoke College class of 1902.

The weekly newspaper of Montana State College has organized a “dating” bureau to aid lonely stags and wallflower co-eds.

Secretary of Agriculture Wallace recently made a trip to mid-western institutions and gave speeches at the University of Chicago and the University of Wisconsin.

Forty-three colleges in the United States have blue and white as their colors.

NEWS DIGEST
By DOPEY McCALL

NAVAL DISASTER

The worst disaster to occur to the Japanese fleet in peacetime was the capsizing of the torpedo boat Tomozura with the loss of one hundred and six officers and men. The secretly-designed vessel was capsized off the Sasebo Naval Base during maneuvers and the accident came as a great shock to the Japanese naval authorities. Efforts to locate the bodies of the victims are still being continued, but hope has practically been abandoned. Unofficial reports attribute the accident to faulty design.

BANGHART AND CONNERS

Basil Banghart and Charles Conners, the two men who are wanted in Charlotte for the one hundred and twenty-five thousand dollar mail robbery, are out of the way for good and will never be tried for their Charlotte crime. Banghart was sentenced to serve ninety-nine years in prison for the kidnapping of Max Factor. The verdict was returned by the jury in less than two hours of deliberation. Conners was found dead in a ditch, a victim of gangland’s war for the survival of the fittest. Expensively clothed and gloved, his murderers had put a cent in his hand as their sign of contempt, and left him propped against the side of the ditch.

DARWIN VINDICATED

What’s this? Over in London there has been born ababy with a tail about two inches long. This is not the first time that such a thing has happened and it always creates a stir and brings up the same old argument of evolution. Darwin did not say that the human originated from the monkey directly, but that man and monkey followed a parallel course of development and that the man outstripped the monkey. Anyway, it makes a mighty fine argument for a rainy day when there is nothing else to do. Oh yes, did you also know that children had been born with gill slits in their necks?

BONUS BILL
The House of Representatives broke away from the President and the administration to pass the veterans’ bonus bill, 295 to 125. This was enough to override the veto of the President, which he said previously that he would use. The bill provides that the bonus money should be distributed now among the veterans. The bill has gone to the Senate, but the question is, will the Senate disobey the dictates of the President or will the bill die at this stage? The general opinion as expressed is that the bonus bill will never get by and that there is nothing to fear.

INSULL
The case of Insull is one which brings a touch of pity. As you remember, the Grecian authorities ordered that he must be returned to the United States by April 1. Well, Insull took heed to their notice and last week he attempted to slip out of Greece on a boat. It raised a furore among the officials who blamed everybody for the escape of the man who had formerly befriended Greece. The captain of the boat was ordered to return and bring Insull as prisoner, which was done. Then the authorities, tired of the fuss and furore that his presence in Greece caused, ordered him out. He immediately boarded a ship and started for the coast of Africa to try and lose himself in the country of the ancient Libyans. Insull is old and tired. He has already paid the price for his transgressions. He is the modern example of the man without a country. Could anything be worse?

PRO AND CON
The committee investigating the air mail controversy or whether the army should fly the mail or not is having a trying time. The biggest figures in American aviation history have expressed their opinions on the matter. Chamberlain defends the present policy. Lindbergh is not in favor of it and the debate between the two is waxing fast and furious. While the argument goes on, another army flyer is killed in Wyoming while making a test flight.

SITUATION IN THE EAST
Feeling has increased to fever pitch since Soviet frontier guards discovered a Japanese schooner in their own waters. The captain of the ship declared that he was engaged in scientific fishing and that engine trouble had caused him to halt. However, the Soviet authorities declare that he had short wave radio equipment in his boat for sending messages. The case is significant in view of the recent protest by the Japanese government against Soviet airmen flying over their territory. Moscow subsequently denied such flights were being made.

Art Collection Is Now On Display
Exhibit Consists of 125 Creations by German Artists
Works of modern German artists are now on display in the banquet hall of Chambers auditorium, and will continue to be shown throughout this week. The exhibit, which consists of 125 original etchings, woodcuts, and lithographs, is being circulated among colleges and universities throughout the United States under the auspices of the Carl Schurz Memorial Foundation, an organization for the promotion of cultural relations between this and German-speaking countries. The German department is sponsoring the exhibition here.

The exhibit is arranged to show the development of the various modern trends in art during the last fifty years in Germany, and begins with the work of Max Liebermann, born in 1847, and for thirty years president of the Prussian Academy. In this group, which illustrates the impressionistic era, are found works by Lovis Corinth, Max Slevogt and Hans Meid. In the school of naturalism are shown lithographs of Robert Sterl and Kaethe Kollwitz, with a complete set of her illustrations for “The Weavers,” by Gerhart Hauptmann, “Proletariat” and “Peasants’ Revolt.”

Representing the school of expressionism are Karl Hofer, Max Pechstein, Max Beckmann, Kokoschka, Erich Heckel, Ernst Barlach the sculptor, and Emil Nolde. The abstract field is illustrated by compositions by Kandinsky, leader of this movement, Schlemmer, Baumeister, Kampendonk and Feininger. Conventional and decorative designs, portraits and landscapes are also included by such well-known artists as Renee Sintenis, Hans Jaeger, von Hoffman, Karl Bauer, Emil Orlik and Walter Klemm. Explanatory talks on the works are given by a representative of the foundation. The exhibition is free to the public as well as to students.

DR. GILBERT GLASS OF RICHMOND DIES AT HOME
(Continued from page 1)
Sunday School literature and publications in the Presbyterian Church in the United States. At the time of his death he was pastor of Bon Air Presbyterian Church in Bon Air, Va., where he had been for several years.

PROGRAM PRESENTED BY HIGH SCHOOL BAND
(Continued from page 1)
Ralph Boldin
The Bells of St. Mary’s - Adams
March Lenoir - Losey
Woodwind Quintet—Danse Humor- esque - Meese
Hunter Il Trovatore Selection - Verdi
INTERMISSION
Echoes From the Metropolitan Opera House - Tobani
Cornet Solo—by Jake Martin
March From “Peers of Iolanthe” - Sullivan
Brass Quartet—Potpourri of Standard Overtures - arr. Lake
Selections from the “Red Mill” - Herbert
Star Spangled Banner

DILLINGER
Dillinger, the bad man of the moment, is still at large. An army of officers has massed in the thumb district of Michigan as one of Dillinger’s pals, Herbert Youngblood, a negro companion, was killed while attempting to escape from a cafe in Port Huron. On his deathbed he told officers that Dillinger had accompanied him to the town and was in hiding there. So the mammoth hunt goes on while four officers who were wounded in the gun battle with Youngblood are slowly recovering in the hospital as a result of their too zealous behavior.

On Other Campuses
At the University of Oklahoma, a professor of public speaking flunked an overawed student with the cryptic, “So you won't talk, eh?” and while we are discussing senior privileges (?), it might be interesting to note that optional attendance at classes has been granted to students with a B average at Southwestern College, Winfield, Kansas. The experiment will be tried during the second semester with a possibility of making it a permanent part of the system.

“Lafayette, we are gone!” said 56 Lehigh students after they were suspended for engaging in a free-for-all fight in which two Lafayette students were sent to the hospital. Two Lehigh freshmen are reported to have started the riot in order to cover up an intended robbery of the gate receipts of the game between the two colleges.

From 10 to 150 students of political science will have an opportunity to study the government at Washington next winter, and will get credit for it from their own colleges. The “institute” will be non-partisan, but the donor remains unknown.

Not very long ago, students at Temple raised a howl to get student representation on the athletic council, but imagine their consternation when they found that they had the privilege all along, but for the past two years the student council forgot to elect members to that job.

And then there is that one told on the dean of a certain mid-western institution who was handing out diplomas to a long line of M.D.’s when a woman in the audience fainted. In a loud voice, the dean asked, “Is there a doctor in the house?”

“Being broke all the time makes me writhe.”
“Don’t writhe,—telegraph!”
—Arizona Kitty Kat.

GLASGOW TALKS TO STUDENTS
(Continued from page 1)
plenty of other graduates that are not and consequently the employer does not accept this as a final indication of his ability. Mr. Glasgow added that the time for the student to go into business is not exactly the best at present but the student should not worry about this. “Where there is a will, there is a way.” The competition and efficiency of today has doubled that of ten years ago, but even so, there are jobs for those that have determination, honesty, and the ability to close a deal.

The speaker recommended that accounting be added to the student’s knowledge of business, as that will prove beneficial later. Work in offices or post-graduate work is one way of furthering one’s knowledge. However, if the student does not have the means to take up graduate work, he should not feel that his chances are lessened, for it is not at all necessary.

When asked the question, “How will the NRA be disposed of?” Mr. Glasgow replied that no one knew, although he believed that it is going to be the background for the development of an “Industrial Congress” and should later lead to a “mild blending of capitalism and socialism.”

Catalog for Coming Year Now Available
The 1934 Davidson College catalogues are now available, according to an announcement from the registrar. Any student may obtain a copy of the catalogue by calling by his office. Mr. Hengeveld also stated that students would be called upon to register during the week of April 9th to 14th, and that possibly the catalogue would be of service to them in arranging their courses.

STATIONERY CALLING CARDS
FRATERNITY PAPERS
Printing of all Types at Reasonable Rates
PROGRAMS
See BILL JOHNSON
203 Watts
Garland Court
Standard Printing Company
CHARLOTTE, N. C.