THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 30, 1935

Wildcats and Bulldogs Tie In Game Featured By Spectacular Plays

(Continued from Page 1)

THIRD QUARTER

Lafferty returned the opening kick-off of the third period to his own 36. Citadel kicked over again from its 45, and Lafferty was downed on his 20. After picking up a first down, Pittman got away a long kick of 54 yards. Pittman received McCreadie’s punt and was tackled on his 27. Ferguson intercepted a pass intended for Williams and returned it to midfield. A series of passes put Citadel in a scoring position, but the threat ended when McCreadie passed over the goal incomplete. Pittman romped off tackle for 10 yards and a first down to his 30. After losing 3 yards, Pittman, on a quick-kick, kicked his only bad kick, the ball going out on his 48. Two line plays failed. Ed Hall kicked out on Davidson's 2 yard line as the quarter ended.

FOURTH QUARTER

Pittman opened the last period with a brilliant dash off tackle for 35 yards. Three plays failed and Pittman got away a long punt which Bailey knocked out of bounds on Citadel's 2 yard line. Hall kicked from behind his own goal to Pittman who returned to the Bulldog’s 31. Baxter Yarborough rammed center for 20 yards and a first down on Citadel's 11. Davidson fumbled here to end her last scoring chance, Citadel recovering on her 18. After picking up 10 yards, McCreadie kicked to Pittman who was downed in his tracks. Lafferty made two first downs and Pittman cut through to midfield as the final whistle blew.

Final score: CITADEL 0, DAVIDSON 0

Fighting Frosh Battle Ungers B Team to Tie

(Continued from Page 4)

The “Pro's” started their fireworks which featured passes from Quick to Peabody. The drive terminated on the ten yard line, where the Frosh pass defense broke up their attack. Stair made fifteen yards off right tackle as the game ended, a scoreless tie. The players standing out for the Pro's were: Grey, King, Peabody, Quick, and Thurston. For the freshmen: Brown, Harrison, McClelland, Moore, and Stair.

Phi Beta Bids Offered Two Professors and Five Alumni

(Continued from Page 1)

The student body namely: J. W. Hassell, Allen, Texas; M. J. Barnett, Meridian, Miss.; J. M. Walker, Steele Creek, N. C.; J. H. Ross, Michoacan, Mexico; C. B. Chapman, Talladega, Ala.; F. M. Lee, Talladega, Ala.; C. G. Smith, Mount, N. C.; and A. L. Bulwinkle, Jr., Gastonia, N. C.

Symphony Band Opens Davidson Concert Series

(Continued from Page 1)

The solo work by various members of the band created a contrast with the remainder of the piece. Josephine Kryl-White then entertained the audience with a selection on the violin, her number being the Concerto No. 2 in D minor by Wieniawski. Following this, the Davidson band took the stage and was directed by Kryl in the introduction to the third act of “Lohengrin.” The last number on the program was the “Second Hungarian Rhapsody” by Liszt. This piece was encored twice, the first by a medley and the second with an English Morris dance, “Shepherds’ Hay,” by Grainger.

U.N.C. Pack and Devils Leading In the Big Five

(Continued from Page 4)

The Blue Devils have been outstanding so far.

NORTH CAROLINA STATE

The Wolfpack has but one blot against their record. They were lambasted in a rough game with the Georgia Bulldogs. The Pack has beaten both Wake Forest and Davidson in the Big Five. Last week, they journeyed to New York to wallop the Manhattan College Jaspers with a one-sided 20-0 defeat. Berlinski, Robinson, Cara, Helms, Sabol, and Kyneska are taking most of the honors for State.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE

The Wildcats have lost two Big Five games and won none. They lost to N.C. State at the first of the season by a narrow margin and then to the Heels. The Wildcats have won two, lost two, and tied two in other games. They beat Elon and South Carolina, lost to N.C. State and Carolina, and were tied by Virginia and The Citadel. Pittman, Johnson, R. Lafferty, Lee, and Yarborough have starred for the ’Cats.

WAKE FOREST COLLEGE

Coach Jim Weaver is having a decidedly unsuccessful season this fall. They have lost three Big Five games (to Carolina, Duke, and N.C. State). They have lost all other games except they beat George Washington 7-6 in an upset. Kitchin, Shore, Wagner, and Eden are outstanding for the Deacs.

SPORTS STACCATO

(Continued from Page 4)

Learning plays was the principal occupation of the bench during the game, while the regulars—from the pro ranks resorted to it frequently in huddles. The frosh stated that the game came after their “moral vic-C. State down the as a tory” freshmen. During the half, Coach “Tubby” Hand of the “Pro's,” in stimulating his charges, was heard to remark, “We're all gonna’ have t’ leave school if we're gonna’ let these freshmen push us around like this.” Hugh Wilson hurled the usual taunts at the frosh while at his end position, declaring that “we know more about your plays than you do.” Coach Newton stated Friday that he thought there was very little chance of any more schools being added to the present Southern Conference, although he believes they favor Davidson if any are considered. With the addition of a new dance orchestra to the Hotel's bill of fare, Chubby King believes that training will become a pleasure yet. Newton states that the possibility of a football contest with Drake is just a rumor, though he added that there is a very good chance of us playing the University of Florida. A two-year contract with the Floridians is reported to be in consideration. If it is agreed upon, the "cats will meet the 'gators at Gainesville first, and the latter will clash on Richardson field for the second contest.

Dr. Hood Tells Of His Hobbies (Continued from Page 5)

Statesville, whom Dr. Hood calls his master. But we wanted to get to the bottom of things, to see the shop that so many had spoken of. Out past the garage, we were taken to an unusually wide door with remarkably long and strong English hinges, through which we walked, expecting to see that scene of genial and cozy disorder so familiar to workshops. But all was in perfect order. Here were other evidences of trips to England, particularly a very small, delicate-looking hand saw with the tiniest teeth. It was peculiar, we thought, that all the English tools in sight had fancy, ornamental handles, while the American-made ones were ruggedly individualistic and plain as barn doors. An impression remains of such things (very like) on little steel tables that tilt crazily as to give the best angle to power-driven saws, an electric drill with a battery of auxiliary tools, the cardboard patterns for the piece we had sat on in the house, “mouth-pieces,” a gaping cedar chest all ready to have its top fitted, a bundle of meter-length sticks of rosewood for inlaying the lid of the chest, and some new instruments that the writer had never seen before, interesting because of their unfamiliarity. After “Oh-ing” and “Ah-ing” over all this industry and skill, while secretly feeling a little envious, we went back in the house, where we found that the doctor had not consumed all his spare time in woodworking. He had a lot of old books in his library, not at all confined to one subject. According to a note in the musty flyleaf of a volume of Burke's complete works, “this was shipwrecked with me in 1817.” It is signed “Earl Amherst.” And although we generally think of Thomas Hood as the writer of doleful, serious poems, that he wrote comedy also is evidenced by the “Comic Annual,” which he brought out in the middle of the nineteenth century and continued for years. But the oldest book is an incredible looking thing issued in 1658—"The Larger and Lesser Westminster Confessions of Faith.” 

From another room, the doctor then brought in what at first sight was an ashtray, having a queer curved rib over it, apparently for a handle. Surprise was complete when we found it to be an old stirrup that his wife’s sister had brought back from China. This is only typical of the collections, which include an exceedingly ancient clay inscription from Abraham’s home town, a crude Jupiter from the Forum Romanum, an Anne-of-Brittany caryatid that looks like a woman only by implication, and a saucer-size memorial to John Calvin, from Geneva, dating back to 1909. Quite a collection is the doctor's, really.

VAN NESS & CO.

Cameras and Photographic Supplies

Davidson Theatre

WEDNESDAY, OCT. 30.
"WAY DOWN EAST" With Henry Fonda and Rochelle Hudson

THURSDAY AND FRIDAY, OCT. 31-NOV. 1.
"I LIVE MY LIFE" With Joan Crawford and Brian Aherne

SATURDAY, NOV. 2.
"THIS IS THE LIFE" With Jane Withers, Sidney Toler, Francis Ford, and Sally Blane

MONDAY AND TUESDAY, NOV. 4-5
"BROADWAY MELODY OF 1936" With Jack Benny, Eleanor Powell, and Robert Taylor

“They ain't streamlined or air conditioned — but they sure are mild and they sure got taste ... made of mild ripe tobaccos... we believe Chesterfields will add a lot to your pleasure.”
LIGGETT & MYERS TOBACCO CO.