THE DAVIDSONIAN » MARCH 20, 1935

MUSICIANS ARE ON SHORT TOUR
Greensboro, Staunton, And Harrisonburg Schools Are To Hear Concerts

The Davidson College Glee Club and Salon Orchestra left Davidson this afternoon for a four-day trip to Staunton, Va., accompanied by James C. Pfohl, conductor, and Warren P. Babcock, assistant conductor. They will stop tonight in Greensboro, where they will give a concert at Greensboro College for Women. Tomorrow, they will go to Staunton, where they will spend Thursday and Friday nights as guests of Staunton Military Academy. Thursday night they will appear in a concert at the State Teachers College for Women at Harrisonburg, and Friday night at Mary Baldwin College for Women in Staunton.

Mr. Pfohl announces that on Wednesday, Thursday and Friday nights the boys are to be the dinner guests of the colleges at which they appear on those nights. At all of the concerts, the glee club will open the program by singing “The Heavens Are Telling,” by Beethoven, “Lo, How a Rose E’er Blooming,” by Praetorius, and “Ye Watchers and Ye Holy Ones,” which is an old German melody. After this, there will be two ‘cello solos played by Warren Babcock. These are “Liebesleid,” by Kreisler, and “Rondino,” by Beethoven and Kreisler. Then the glee club will sing two more numbers, “Little David, Play Yo’ Harp” and “De Gospel Train.” These are both negro spirituals.

To continue the program, Louise Nelson Pfohl will play three piano solos by Chopin. These are “Impromptu in F Sharp,” “Prelude in C Sharp Minor,” and “Etude in C Sharp Minor.” The salon orchestra will then make its first appearance on the program with the two numbers, “Beauty Waltzes,” by Tschaikowsky, and “In a Persian Market,” by Ketelby. The glee club will conclude the program by singing “Dear Land of Home” from “Finlandia,” by Sibelius, “Reapers’ Sleeping Chorus,” which is a Bohemian folk song, and “Olaf Trygvason, Land Sighting,” by Grieg. The organizations will leave Staunton Saturday morning, arriving in Davidson that afternoon.

Carlson Named Vice-President In Last Ballot
(Continued from Page 1)

Morton with over 50 per cent of the votes between them. Morton was eliminated by only a 20-vote margin on Friday, leaving Carlson and Corbin. On Saturday Carlson became first vice-president with a 50-vote margin. Carlson, a member of Kappa Sigma fraternity, is from Greensboro, and Corbin, tackle of the Wildcats and a member of Pi Kappa Phi fraternity, is from Fremont.

The secretary-treasurer race was also close. Alderman, Arrowsmith and Rader fell by the wayside on the first day. Kiesewetter, Barrow and Crooks held 63 per cent of the votes. On Thursday Crooks was barely eliminated, and Kiesewetter led Barrow by only one vote—135 to 134. Kiesewetter won by a narrow margin on Friday, ending a very close race throughout the week between himself and Barrow. Kiesewetter, captain of the freshman basketball team and a member of Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity, is from Riestertown, Md. The entire election, in the words of “Skip” Brown, retiring Student Body president, was “marked by keen competition and close races, even the race for presidency being almost unpredictable” until the last balloting.

McClure Retained As “Y” Secretary
(Continued from Page 1)

like a Philistine going up to worship in the temple at Jerusalem. This strange feeling has been completely eradicated as the weeks have passed and I deeply appreciate the way the men on the campus have received me. In coming back next year I look forward to the continuation of friendships already formed and the establishment of new ones. Anything that has been accomplished this year can be attributed to the Y. M. C. A. Cabinet and the splendid cooperation of the students in the work of the Y.

“No organization on the campus has served the students in the past as has the Y, and no organization has the possibility in the future of holding so great a place in the lives of the men. To make this possibility a reality each man will have to do his share. The work this year has not been perfect, nor nearly perfect, and any suggestion from any man of the campus will be welcomed.”

Prof. Erwin Talks To Radio Audience
Says Literary Activity Impeded By Careless Reading

With his usual cheery “Good evening, ladies and gentlemen,” “Skip” Brown introduced the weekly radio program last Thursday evening at 8 o'clock. The program opened to the stirring strains of “O Davidson” by the entire concert band. The band then rendered a concert march by Olivadoti entitled “Hall of Fame.” This number was followed by selections from the light opera, “H. M. S. Pinafore,” by Sullivan. TheOutstanding feature of the program was a ten-minute address by Prof. E. J. Erwin on the short story. Speaking on behalf of the short story, Professor Erwin said: “We let ourselves fall too easily into careless reading after starting in the correct literary direction. The short story is one of the finest types of good literature, and if the stories are good literature, they will prove great assets to every reader.” The concert band then played “Scots, Wha Hae Wallace Bled,” the Scotch national anthem, and “Lights Out,” by McCoy. With “O Davidson” as a background, “Skip” Brown then identified the spot of origin of the program and invited everyone to tune in again on the program at its regular time next week.

CARS FOR RENT
Gulf Gas and Oil
M. P. HENDERSON

Junior Class Gives Brilliant Set Dances
(Continued from Page 1)
Charlotte; Ann Purnell, Charlotte; Marie Nickirk, Charlotte; Julia Rice, Ashboro; Sally Tallyand, Springfield, Ky., and Myra Jackson, Lebanon, Ky. Renn Jones, Pi Kappa Alpha: Virginia Hardin, High Point; Mary Anne Taylor, Beaufort; Isabel White, Concord; Wilfred Schlosser, Greensboro; Brownie Poole, Troy; Deppe Barker, Trenton; Mary McKay, Concord; Jane Holman, Charlotte, and Mary Mickley, Charlotte.

Kappa Alpha: Johnny Walker, Charlotte; Jane Shelton, Chattanooga, Tenn.; Mel Leaver, Charlotte; Madge Taliaferro, Raleigh; Mary Lib Sanders, Roxboro; Katherine Crowell, Charlotte; May D. Marian, Charlotte; Maria Drane, Washington, D. C.; Jane Ellen Taylor, Charlotte, and Eleanor Dunn, Greensboro.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon: Beda Carlson, Greensboro; Betty Bahnson, Winston-Salem; Jane Hashagen, Gastonia; Elizabeth Lucas, Greenville, S. C.; Mug Hackney, Charlotte; Cynthia Barnes, Bennettsville, S. C., and Ann Little, Charlotte.

Kappa Sigma: “Babs” MacDowell, Gaffney, S. C.; Jean Robinson, Gastonia; Jean Early, Indianola, Miss.; Ripple Wooding, Greensboro; Alice Cowles Barringer, Charlotte; Beverly Moore, Bennettsville, S. C., and Anita Smith, Gastonia.

Phi Gamma Delta: Elinor Edenton, Jackson, Tenn.; Alethea Brigman, Bishop; Mary Blue Monroe, Fayetteville; Martha Dyer, Greenville, Miss.; Wilhemenia Monroe, Geddiesbtry; Betty Long, Boston, Mass.; Pearl Stoops, Cleveland, Tenn., and Barney Buss, Grayhound, Fla.

Pi Kappa Phi: Mary Warris, Wilmington; Nancy Talbert, Rock Hill, S. C.; Mary Ellen Horne, Charlotte; Dosty Blackman, Rock Hill, S. C.; Mary Clare Stokes, Wilson; Rose Mary Brown, Beckley, W. Va.; Dot Berger, Florence, S. C.; Caroline Hinkle, Charlotte; Lydia Stewart, Charlotte, and Carolyn Hammond, Charlotte.

Phi Delta Theta: Alice O'Shanghnessy, Milwaukee, Wis.; Allene Fluker, Hendersonville; Margaret Taylor, Mobile, Ala.; Cathilda Kyser, Talladega, Ala.; Virginia Shaver, Salisbury; Anna Boyce Rankin, Charlotte, and Elizabeth Neil, Marion.

Sigma Phi Epsilon: Margaret Peoples, Oxford; Nancy Redfern, Asheville; Marie Cline, Salisbury; Kathryn Craven, Bennettsville, S. C.; Rowena Taylor, Oxford; Lib Ray, Charlotte; Georgie Underwood, Charlotte; Jean Orr, Charlotte; Josephine Reece, Rogersville, Tenn.; Virginia Lyons, Winston-Salem, and Margaret Donnagoo, Charlotte.

Those invited to chaperone the dances were: Mr. and Mrs. W. E. Snow, High Point; Mr. and Mrs. S. A. Robinson, Gastonia; Dr. and Mrs. Oren Charlotte; Dr. and Mrs. L. D. McPhail, Charlotte; Senator and Mrs. Cameron Morrison, Charlotte; Mr. and Mrs. J. C. Crowell, Mr. and Mrs. Douglas Kincaid, Jr., Charlotte; Dr. and Mrs. R. A. Dunn, Charlotte; Mr. and Mrs. Hugh Moore, McAulay, Charlotte; Mr. and Mrs. C. L. Okey, Charlotte; Mrs. J. R. Cherry, Charlotte; Dr. and Mrs. H. W. McKay, Charlotte; Mrs. Margaret Abernathy, Charlotte; Mr. and Mrs. M. L. Cannon, Charlotte; Dr. and Mrs. Addison Brenizer, Charlotte; Mr. and Mrs. C. F. Loftis, Gastonia; Mr. and Mrs. Cole Windham, Gastonia, and members of the faculty.

The Finest Tuxedo in America for the Price of $29.50
Grosgrain Lapels, Single and Double Breast.
J O JONES INC

Davidson Theatre
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 20
LOVE IN BLOOM
With George Burns And Gracie Allen

THURSDAY, MARCH 21
RUGGLES OF RED GAP
With Charles Laughton, Mary Boland and Charles Ruggles

FRIDAY, MARCH 22
VANESSA
With Robert Montgomery and Helen Hayes

SATURDAY, MARCH 23
CAR 99
With Fred MacMurray, Sir Guy Standing and Ann Sheridan

MONDAY-TUESDAY, MARCH 25-26
WEDDING NIGHT
With Gary Cooper and Anna Sten

...for that better taste and fragrant aroma
Turkish tobacco leaf is so tiny that each of these bales contains from 70 to 80 thousand leaves. But there’s another and greater difference—Turkish is the most spicy and aromatic tobacco in the world. We have Chesterfield buyers in all the tobacco markets of Turkey and Greece, including Xanthi, Cavalla, Smyrna and Samsoun. And when you blend and cross-blend aromatic Turkish tobacco with mild ripe home-grown tobaccos as we do in Chesterfield—you have a milder cigarette, a better-tasting cigarette.