THE DAVIDSONIAN » OCTOBER 23, 1935

The Davidsonian
Founded by the Class of 1916

1935 Member 1936
Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Printed by the QUEEN CITY PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate year.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879.

ARTICLES FOR PUBLICATION must be in the hands of Managing Editors by 4:00 o'clock p.m., Monday. Letters to the Editor
are welcome, but all communications intended for publication must be signed.

LAMONT BROWN ........ Editor
R. P. MORROW, Jr. .... Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
Jim Morton .... Managing Editor
HOWELL OVERTON .... Managing Editor
HAROLD SUGG .... Managing Editor
RAYMOND TURNER .... Managing Editor
JOHN WANN .... Managing Editor
Harry Kuykendall .... Sports Editor
MARTIN BARNETT .... Associate Editor
HARVEY GLASS .... Associate Editor
PAUL RULAND .... Associate Editor
TOM MARCHAND .... Associate Editor
JOHN WALKER .... Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
CHARLES MAUZY .... Circulation Manager
BILL MOORE .... Circulation Manager
BOB VANCE .... Circulation Manager
HOKE ROBINSON .... Advertising Manager
BILL RITTENHOUSE .... Collection Manager
SID DOVER .... Assistant Business Manager

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 23, 1935

Withhold not good from them to whom it is due, when it is in the power of thine hand to
do it.—Proverbs 3:27

PARAGRAPHICS....

Davidson students will have an unusual privilege next Monday when Bohumir Kryl and his band play in the Chambers auditorium.
This is reputedly the best band in the world now that Sousa has passed out of the picture.

* * *

Thanks, sports editor of The Daily Tar Heel, that was a swell write-up account of last Saturday’s game you gave
Davidson in your paper. We admire your sportsmanship, and appreciate the credit you gave our Wildcats, whom we think played
a wonderful game of football.

* * *

Davidson’s cheering at football games is improving all along. Leader Joe Dees has done an excellent job with the new
men, and the way his Junior assistants have their fancy maneuvers so perfectly timed makes one wonder if there isn’t
some invisible cord connecting the hands and arms of these four white-sweatered lads.

SOUTHERN CONFERENCE HOPES....

Within a few months, Southern Conference officials will again be confronted with the problem of admitting additional members to its
ranks. At a meeting held last year, the athletic directors of the ten institutions now included in the conference, voted
to limit its membership to a total of sixteen major teams throughout the South, and to defer definite action on
any particular school until this season.

Although no place in the league was promised by the association, six institutions were named as the first to be
considered for admittance. They are: The University of Richmond, William and Mary, The Citadel, Furman, Wake Forest, and Davidson. Naturally,
all of these applicants cannot be admitted but every indication points to the acceptance of two or three by the
committee, which is expected to meet in the latter part of December or early January.

We, of course, are very much interested in Davidson’s prospects and it seems, from the records of the six applicants,
that Davidson, Furman, and William and Mary, are the most likely candidates to be accorded such membership. By surveying the
facts of the past few years, we can show that Davidson has met more Southern Conference teams than any other
non-conference school. Hardly a season passes by in any sport, in which Davidson does not defeat or hold its own
with some member of the Conference group. So far during our present football season, the ’cats have defeated one member
of the conference, tied another, and held the two reputed “giants” of the conference to very low scores.

If Davidson can defeat members of the Southern Conference, if it can hold the members of this group to low
margins as it has done, if it can meet such teams as Army and Navy, then it certainly should be
accorded the privilege of membership in the present Southern Conference.

H. L. K.

ACTIVITIES AND BUSINESS ....

There was sent into The Davidsonian office last week by Mr. J. R. Morton, graduate of Davidson in the class
of 1917, a very interesting and informative article taken from the June issue of Civil Engineering. The article was written
by Mr. W. L. Turner, Jr., of Virginia Polytechnic Institute, and it contains some very enlightening and encouraging facts for
undergraduate students. The title of Mr. Turner’s story is “Extracurricular Activities and Business Success,” from which the following paragraphs are
taken:

“Recently the business and professional world has begun to realize the value of outside activities for college students as a
factor in the training of its future employees. In 1925, the American Telephone and Telegraph Company made a survey of
the graduates in its service. The collegiate activities of 2,100 men were studied and the men were classified into three
groups. Group A, consisting of 21 per cent of the total, was composed of men who had made substantial contributions
to campus activities. Group B, representing 38 per cent, was made up of men who had some achievement to their
credit, and group C, approximately 41 per cent, consisted of those who had taken no part whatever in extracurricular activities.

“The salaries of each group were averaged over a period of years, and the averages were compared with the median
salary of the whole. Group A showed a steady climb from the beginning, and at the end of 25 years
was earning 21 per cent more than the average salary of the entire group. Group B showed a decline for
the first five years, no change for the next five, and a steady gain for the last fifteen years. At
the end of the period, members of group B were earning 10 per cent more than the general average. Those
in Group C were found to have suffered salary cuts during the entire period and at the end of it
were earning only 90 per cent of the average salary.

“After discovering that extracurricular activities are responsible for the success of their employees, the company sought to discover the relation
between the field of activity of each student and his success in business. Five fields of endeavor were chosen, and
the men in Groups A and B were compared on the basis of their achievements in these fields. The types
of activity chosen were respectively editorial and forensic, musical and dramatic, social, managerial, and athletic. It was found that the
Group A men in the editorial and forensic field and in the managerial field had had the greatest success, 80
per cent of their number earning salaries above the average for the group. Success of men in the social, athletic,
and musical and dramatic fields followed in the order given.

“In comparing Groups A and B in these various fields of endeavor, it was found that among those who had
substantial achievements to their credit at college there were about 10 per cent more men earning salaries above the average
in Group A than in Group B, with the exception of those in the field of athletics. Here it was
found that although athletic activity is a decided asset, it apparently makes little difference whether a man is on a
major team or is merely on the squad. The musical and dramatic field was found to be least favorable, but
even here at least 50 per cent of the men were earning salaries above the average.

“An investigation made recently by a large midwestern university has brought out facts very similar to the findings of the
telephone company. This college compiled a list of all its alumni listed in ‘Who's Who In America,’ certainly its most
successful graduates. Their campus activities were classified under the heads of journalism, student government, athletics, and musical and dramatic. The
greatest number of the men were found to have been interested in journalism, comparing with the editorial and forensic group
of the telephone company’s investigation. The student government executives were next, comparing with the managerial group of the previously mentioned
inquiry. Athletics and musical and dramatic activities followed. Social activities were not studied, as nearly 100 per cent of the
alumni listed were members of fraternities or similar organizations.

“These two investigations—one conducted among graduates of colleges and universities throughout the country and the other among the very successful
graduates of a particular institution—show that extracurricular activities appear to be an aid to business success, and that the type
of activity excelled in at college is to some extent an indication of the business success a student may expect.”

DAVIDSON off the RECORD
By HAROLD SUGG

ILL WINDS THAT BLOW NO GOOD

Aside from the fighting football game we saw Saturday it was a quiet weekend, quite consistent with what Fitz Dade
calls “our bucolic Utopia,” and the prevailing note was of harmonious bulling in fraternity lodges, dormitories, and such a den
of vice as the Student Store. Mr. Stough provided us with “Dressed to Thrill,” a strangely incongruous title, and the
potential excitement scheduled Saturday night flopped when the yapping lads of Charlotte High failed to reassert their belligerency.

BOWING BEFORE BALLYHOO

True newspaper justice to the fighting Wildcats, who held the powerful Carolina team that scored 38 points against Tennessee and
33 against Maryland, was possibly sacrificed for the sake of Ballyhooing NCU into the Rose Bowl. While we would delight
in seeing our friendly rival picked for the honor, we lament the fact that neighboring newspapers muffled the praise due
the ‘Cats. At least, that is how most of the Student Body felt after reading the Sunday morning writeups.

SOUNDS THAT LINGER

Significant of the happy melancholy in which we live: The clink of horse-shoes outside a classroom at 3:05 P.M. ...
The blend of radio music that floats across the quadrangle while you are trudging to your Saturday afternoon classes ...
A radio breaking the stillness of 2 A.M. ... Two students discussing accounting results between dormitories ... dubious harmony from
Georgia shower rooms ... Sunday Symphony programs ... “Accent on Youth,” by Jan Garber, heard across fraternity court.

THE GEORGIA BALD CLUB

Many occupants of the palatial hotel are frightened at night with the Hobgoblin of Baldness. Nightly they gather and bewail
the imminent loss of hair. Domo Patterson, Deacon Bob Johnson (formerly Colonel Bob), Bill Snow and a collection of restorative
processes. Hairian, probably suffering from too much Mary Baldwin, is equally perturbed over the present absence of this flexible outgrowth
of the epidermis. Ye columnist belongs in the ranks of the tremulous and his bald spot enlarges with every column.
John “Butch” Abernathy went on a bragging spree last week and shaved; he scraped the same sidetwice and didn't know
the difference, and when he applied the after-shaving lotion the poor fellow took a whiff and passed out.

SOCIAL SOJOURNS

A goodly proportion of the boys went over to the Queens’ party Friday and scrambled for all available corners. The
scarcity of corners led to a tremendous influx into the House of Horrors. Those gaining egress were met by “Evil-Eye,”
who may or may not have strayed therefrom. Walter Dickson was the genial toastmaster and Jack Branch and Dennis Myers
were troubled by Diogenes with his lantern. Whether or not he was looking for an honest man the gentle reader
is free to conjecture. Kappa Alpha, Phi Delt and Kappa Sig pins were noted in profusion and the SPE’s were
on hand en masse.

CAMPUS PLUTOCRATS TWO AND THREE

“Prosperity is returning,” echo Student Store Managers Henry Cathey and Dan Griffin as they prophesy a swimming pool for the
next Centennial Class in 2037 A.D. These two Davidson Nabobs, strangely enough, have no trouble sleeping and feel no pangs
of remorse. “Indeed, we are losing money,” lamented Griffin. “Sure we are,” said Cathey.

The Pi Kappa Phi’s stayed home Saturday and at their party enjoyed a modern and somewhat anachronistic dramatic representation of
“Cleopatra,” in which Antony, Cleo, Nero and Mae West were chief characters. From this resplendent anthology of Pi Kappa Phi
humor we pick the “Bowtie Song.” You may call it madness Bowtie call it love.

RAMIFICATION

As aristocratic as a mule. Loch Vass is an authority on Birds; does research work at Mary Baldwin. Conquering Concord:
Midget Verble, Fred Dennis, Teeny Lafferty, Lynwood Mann and Morrison King. R. B. S&W Stewart is Nelly Crazy if not
completely.

AROUND WASHINGTON

Mr. Serwer, the regular Washington correspondent of The Davidsonian and the Associated Collegiate Press, is on his vacation this week.
In his column today he deserts the Washington scene and gives you his impressions of Key West, his ideas about
the founding of a co-educational college, and a little bit of ballyhoo that must have come from a Chamber of
Commerce secretary — Editor.

By ARNOLD SERWER
Associated Collegiate Press Correspondent

Key West, Fla—If anyone wants to found a college for women I suggest starting it here in Key West. I
know of no more ideal place, winter or summer, for the pursuit of learning in beautiful surroundings. At the risk
of sounding like a spokesman for the local chamber of commerce I am going to explain why the place is
so unusual, and Mr. Hemingway, who has had this place to himself for so long, can bite his nails all
he wants to at the spectacle of an outsider egging on other outsiders to come down and overrun the place.

The climate is practically perfect. Once in a while, in January or February, Key West has a really cold snap.
The mercury drives way down to 49 degrees above zero. In the summer it never gets above 91 or 92.
Built on the largest of Florida’s Keys it is lapped on one side by the Atlantic Ocean and on the
other by the Gulf of Mexico. People living in the middle of the city, daily have to make up their
minds whether they'd rather swim in the Gulf or in the Atlantic Ocean. They're only about a half mile apart.

Key West has a distinct flavor all its own. It scarcely seems like an American city. Half of its 12,000
people are Cuban and Spanish, the remainder are native whites and negroes. The whites, known as conks, are hard bitten
people, clannish to the nth degree. Hospitable on the surface, underneath they are extremely suspicious of outsiders. An outsider is
anyone who came to Key West in the last 20 years. Walk down Duval street and you can hear Key
West Spanish, an impure version of the mother tongue, being spoken as readily by the conks as by the Cubans.

It is a perfect spot for writers and artists. There is color everywhere. In the startlingly green sea, in the
tall coconut palms, in the multi-colored boats in the harbor, in the white beaches. The grey and white houses, all
seemingly leaning slightly to one side or the other, invite the etcher to try his hand. At night the main
street, Duval, comes violently to life. Scores of people, young and old, lean against the shop windows and watch the
passersby. The street is lined with bicycles parked against the curb. Everybody rides them here. Whole families downtown on them
together, the head of the family pedaling a bicycle with a basket attached to the handlebars, if the purpose of
the trip happens to be shopping. People shout and halloo to each other. Little coffee-colored Cuban children scoot back and
forth across the street on urgent business of their own.

At this particular time Key West's commerce with the outside world has suffered a severe temporary stoppage. The hurricane of
a month ago, striking 60 miles north of here, wiped out highway fills between several of the keys, and destroyed
several bridges, along with the Florida East Coast Railway. As a result Key West depends on one boat and about
four planes a week for mail and some of its supplies. But beginning November 1 ferry service is slated to
be resumed, and within the next few months the highway will be rebuilt. At the present time the FERA and
the state highway department are jointly putting in a temporary road.

Key West itself has not had a hurricane in which life was lost, in 40 years. A week ago when
one threatened, Key West got ready. Windows were boarded over, doors nailed, boats fastened to hurricane moorings. The hurricane passed
within 40 miles of the city. It is the wave following hurricanes that is to be feared, not the wind
itself. The position of Key West, and the type of harbor it has, provides ready outlet for hurricane waves. If
the water has enough avenues of escape it cannot bank up, and it is the banking up that smashes things
and takes lives.

The local FERA, now WPA, has done wonders for the city. Two years ago Key West, with its shipping and
cigar factories gone and its sponge industry destroyed, was flat on its back looking up at the cold stars. Seventy-five
per cent of the town was on relief. It had two choices. It might die slowly, as people evacuated Key
West, or it might build up some source of revenue by playing up some strong point. The FERA suggested making
the town a tourist center, playing up the climate, the fishing, sports and amusements. The FERA has done just that
thing. It has cleaned the streets, demolished houses that were fire hazards, improved the water supply, built an aquarium, improved
the city’s golf course, run an art project that is becoming nationally famous for producing etchings and watercolors of Key
West scenes, and persistently it has advertised Key West. Last winter the city had more visitors than it had in
years. Now the WPA is about to construct an artificial atoll in Florida Bay, to serve as a swimming pool,
complete a botanical garden that will have exotic plants never grown in this country before, and put out a guidebook
for national distribution.

The city fathers are beginning to see very decided rays of hope. Local enterprise is returning. People are opening new
night clubs and restaurants to handle the business that is expected to come this winter when the tourists come down
to Key West. This town has its Habana Madrid Club, its Raul’s, its own Sloppy Joe’s. In Sloppy Joe’s you
can find seamen off the coastwise tramps, getting pickled to the eyebrows, and vowing that they don’t give a damn
what time their boat sails, they’re staying right where they are, yessir!

Yes, if someone else doesn’t do it I’m going to found a college for women here, possibly a co-educational university,
with courses in barracuda and tarpon fishing, sponge diving and coral collecting, tennis and bicycling, and post-graduate work in drinking
of Fondador, the stuff Hemingway always talks about in connection with Key West. We'll hold Commencement Exercises in shorts and
polo shirts on Boca Chica Key. If we feel that the school needs a traditional rival, there’s always the University
of Havana, 90 miles away. For a school color I suggest something the color of the hibiscus that blooms so
beautifully here, and of course it’s unthinkable that the students should call themselves by any other name than “Conks.” “Conks
versus Tarheels.” “Conks versus Gophers.” “Conks versus ’Gators.” It sounds pretty good. If it’s a co-educational university I wonder if
it would be proper for me to be coach of the football team and Dean of Women at the same
time?

“Compare The News” From DAVIDSONIANS of Years Gone By

FIVE YEARS AGO

Wofford Frosh beat Wildkittens 6-0... Mr. Harry Rimmer speaks at Sunday vesper service... Davidson defeats Citadel 6-0... Home-coming to be
held this week... Glee Club sponsors annual stunt night... Seniors hold smoker in Chambers... W. P. Cumming writes The Wild
Grizzlies of Alaska in collaboration with J. M. Halzworth... Dr. C. M. Richards to speak at homecoming. Wildcats meet V.
P. I. Saturday... Recent publication shows Davidson was first team in South to use pass... Intra-fraternity football gets under way.

TEN YEARS AGO

This issue dedicated to Freshmen... Printed in green ink... Wildcats defeat Presbyterian College 13-0; Amendment to constitution allowing accuser or
accused to appeal his case before Student Body proposed... Dr. Roy Baker visits Davidson to get data for Wilson biography...
Presbyterian Frosh defeat Wildkittens... Home-coming day set for State game... Dr. C. F. Meyers to lead Y. M. C. A.
revival... Cross country teams begin workout... Library board to order new books.

FIFTEEN YEARS AGO

Wildcats trim Wake Forest 27 to 7... Cox-Roosevelt Club established... C. K. Brown elected president. Its purpose is to raise
money for Roosevelt's campaign... Dr. Weatherford of Nashville, Tenn., opens Y. M. C. A. revival... Tennis players prepare to meet
Carolina... Scrubs play N. C. State Freshmen, Nov. 18th... Wildcats meet Richmond University Saturday. T. W. Lingle addresses Polit Club.
Plans made to run beauty section in Quips and Cranks... Each boy is allowed to have his girl's picture in
annual... “Jamie” Foule addresses Ministerial Band. Mrs. E. J. Erwin entertains with a family dinner party in honor of Professor
Erwin's birthday... Dr. Hood speaks at Rock Hill.

HELPS PREVENT MANY COLDS

Especially designed aid for nose and upper throat, where most colds start.

Regular Size....30¢
Double Quantity 50¢
VICKS VATRO-NOL
