STUDENT BODY ELECTIONS BEGIN ON MARCH 19TH

The Davidsonian

ALENDA LU xX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

EIGHT SENIORS ISSUED BIDS TO PHI BETA KAPPA

Vol. XXII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., MARCH 6, 1935 No. 19

JUNIOR DANCES TO FEATURE ALLSBROOK AND HIS ORCHESTRA

Beauty Contest And Orchestra Novelties Promise Enjoyable Entertainment

COLORFUL DECORATIONS

Calligan, Davidson Graduate, Writes Band Arrangements

The Junior class of Davidson College wishes to announce that it has secured Bill Allsbrook and his Orchestra to play
for the annual Junior Speaking Dances to be held in the Charlotte Armory on the fifteenth and sixteenth of this
month. Long a highlight of the college social calendar, the junior festivities this year will feature a set of three
dances: the formal, Friday night, from nine till two; a tea dance, Saturday afternoon from four-thirty to six-thirty, and an
informal, Saturday night from eight to twelve.

Bill Allsbrook comes straight from an engagement in Greensboro, where he has been playing at the O. Henry Hotel. His
orchestra has proven very popular there, and is highly recommended. Woody Calligan, who, while at Davidson, was connected with Reeves
Pope and his Southernaires, writes the arrangements for the band. The orchestra also features seven violinists of unusual talent and
promises a surprise in the form of a new and exceptionally gifted vocalist whose name is, as yet, a secret.

Most novel feature of the set will be the “Beauty Contest.” Balloting will begin with the opening of the dance
Friday night and will be closed at the intermission of the informal Saturday evening. A committee headed by “Geddie” Munroe
is in charge of decorations. It is promised that there will be plenty of streamers and that traditional Junior Speaking
armament, confetti, will be on hand for Saturday night’s party.

Members of the Dance Committee which is in charge of preparations for this weekend are: Cole Windham, president of the
class; Lamont Brown, Enid Bowers, Carleton Chapman, Martin Barnett, Earl Frazier, Paul Harlan, Hank Lofton, Budd Okey, Bill Snow, and
Herb Willis. “Geddie” Monroe and Budd Okey are making arrangements for the customary figure, given Friday night. The Dance Committee
and members of the class of '36 remind members of the other three classes that, due to faculty restrictions, there
will be only one other student-sponsored dance this year. The cost of this set will be quite reasonable and all
Davidson students are urged to attend. Ticket prices will run as follows: Set, $3.50; Friday night, $2.00; tea dance, $1.00;
informal, $1.50. Tickets may be secured from any member of the Dance Committee.

Faculty Presents Graduation Plans

A tentative commencement program for this year has been announced by the committee appointed for that purpose. The executive committee
plans to meet on Friday, May 31. The following night the alumni council is to convene in Chambers Auditorium. Dr.
B. R. Lacy, president of the Union Theological Seminary at Richmond, Va., will deliver the baccalaureate sermon to the Senior
class in the Davidson College Presbyterian Church on Sunday, June 2.

The Alumni Association will meet on Monday, June 3, and the alumni luncheon is to be at noon on Monday.
Alumni recreation and entertainments will be during the Saturday and Monday afternoons. Probably there will be a baseball game and
a golf tournament to entertain the alumni visiting their Alma Mater. Class reunion suppers, held for many of the returning
classes, will be on the campus on Monday night, June 3. The final event on the schedule for commencement is
the graduation exercises, which are to be held Tuesday, June 4. Final plans for the commencement exercises have not been
completed, but will be finished some time in the near future.

Will Lecture Here

Dr. Arthur M. Harding of the University of Arkansas, who will give an illustrated lecture March 11 in Chambers auditorium
on the subject “Other Worlds Than Ours.”

A. M. HARDING TO GIVE TALK HERE

“Other Worlds Than Ours” Is Subject Of Talk By Professor Of Astronomy

Dr. Arthur M. Harding, of the Mathematics and Astronomy Departments of the University of Arkansas, will give an illustrated lecture
here in the Chambers Auditorium on Monday night, March 11, at 7:30 o'clock. He comes to Davidson under the auspices
of the Faculty Committee on Public Lectures, and is recommended by Dr. Walter Lingle and others.

Dr. Harding will take as his subject, “Other Worlds Than Ours,” and with the aid of his lantern slides will
give a discussion of this universe in which we live, touching upon the inhabitants of the other planets, possible communication
with them, and inter-planetary travel.

This lecture is intended for those who have not made a special study of science and will be of interest
to all. It will be simple, non-technical, and full of life and detail. The revival of interest in the study
of man and his relation to the universe has made necessary a knowledge of the fundamental facts of science. By
making use of the fascinating, but often neglected, subject of astronomy, Dr. Harding not only supplies this knowledge, but also
awakens the scientific spirit of his audience.

Dr. Harding has devoted more than thirty years to the study of science, part of which time was spent at
the University of Chicago, where he was awarded his doctor's degree in mathematics and astronomy. During the past fifteen years
he has appeared before audiences in thirty-six states to deliver his addresses on astronomy, and has at several places filled
as many as four return engagements. He has written several scientific textbooks that are used all over the country.

Davidson Catalogue To Be Distributed Soon

According to a recent announcement, the new Davidson College Catalogue has just come off the press. The catalogue was published
a month in advance this year. It was sent to the press in the latter part of February. This catalogue
includes a number of changes which have been made this year. Some of these changes are in the numbering of
courses and in the entrance requirements. A list of the donors of scholarships is also in this issue. This list
is published in the catalogues every fifth year. The catalogues will be available for those who wish to obtain them
in Mr. Hengeveld’s office.

FROSH DEBATERS SELECTED FROM ELEVEN ENTRIES

Dorsett, McClelland, McGeachy, Street Will Compose Team; Alternate Selected

NO MEET SCHEDULED

Selections To Provide Future Forensic Material

The tryouts for the freshman debating team were held in the Eu Society Hall last Monday night, March 3. Each
speaker was given five minutes to enlarge on one point of the question, “Resolved: That the nations should agree to
prevent international shipment of arms and munitions.” This was the same question as used by the varsity in their tryouts
some time ago. The judges consisted of Wade Boggs, P. Y. Harlan and James Salango.

Eleven men tried out for places on the team. This was considered by the Forensic Council as a large number
in comparison with other colleges. The men who tried out were: A. R. Cates, J. J. Dorsett, W. H. Ellison,
C. H. King, J. E. McClelland, N. H. McGeachy, A. T. McLean, W. T. Manson, William Rader, T. W. Street,
and R. B. Vowels. From the eleven men who tried out, a team of six men was picked. The team
is composed of J. J. Dorsett, J. E. McClelland, N. H. McGeachy, T. W. Street and two alternates, who are
C. H. King and W. T. Manson.

The freshman team has no debates scheduled. The purpose of its organization is to line up talent for the varsity
team of next year. It has been the custom in the past for the Forensic Council to hold tryouts for
freshman aspirants. Those members of the council who heard the tryout speeches expressed the opinion that good debating material exists
among the first-year men.

SYMPHONIC BAND LEAVES HERE ON TOUR OF STATE

Lenoir, Lexington, Clemons, And Winston-Salem Included In Tour Itinerary

PLAN THREE-DAY TRIP

State-Wide Concert Series To End Friday Night

The Davidson College Symphonic Band left here Tuesday afternoon for a tour of the state which will last through Friday
night. Forty-eight members of the band, Director James C. Pfohl, Assistant Director Warren P. Babcock, and Louise Nelson Pfohl, pianist,
are making the trip.

The first concert of the series was at Lenoir Tuesday night. Due to unavoidable circumstances, the appearance in Salisbury, booked
for tonight, was cancelled. It is uncertain whether the band will return to Davidson tonight, or give a concert elsewhere.
This afternoon the band presented a concert at Lexington, and tomorrow morning the group will appear in Clemons for a
morning concert. On Thursday evening the band will play at Salem College in Winston-Salem, the largest city on the route.
Friday afternoon and evening, the group will make appearances on the stage of the Paramount Theatre in Hickory.

The program for all concerts will be as follows:
Triumphant Concert March — Olivadoti
Overture to William Tell — Rossini
Willow Echoes — Cornet Solo — Simon A. Moreland
Cunningham Boat — Jerome Kern
Intermission
Selections from Show Boat — Jerome Kern
Hungarian Fantasy for Piano and Band — Franz Liszt
Louise Nelson Pfohl

(Continued on Page 6, Col. 3)

Wrestlers End Season

The Davidson grapplers completed a record season last Saturday night when they overcame an undefeated aggregation from Appalachian State Teachers’
College by a score of 17 to 11. After having carried off the Big Five wrestling crown, the Wildcats proved
their worth by winning over the only undefeated team of collegiate matmen in the state—the only defeat suffered by the
’Cats came at the hands of V. P. I., an out-of-state team.

A summary of the season:
Dec. 6—Defeated Spray Y there, 21-9.
Dec. 7—Defeated Draper Y there, 21-13.
Dec. 8—Defeated High Point there, 21-9.
Dec. 14—Defeated High Point here, 17-9.
Jan. 12—Defeated Spray Y here, 28-8.
Feb. 2—Defeated Duke here, 21-9.
Feb. 9—Defeated V. P. I. here, 13-17.
Feb. 15—Defeated Carolina, 16-14.
Feb. 22—Defeated N. C. State here, 15.5-10.5.
Feb. 26—Defeated Draper Y here, 24-6.
March 2—Defeated Winston-Salem, 17-11.

In the Saturday night match Coach Red Watkins’ started off strong, taking the first two matches on time decisions, but
were suddenly halted when Charlie Parker, of Appalachian...Mountaineer Davidson won his match with a close decision. Probably the most unexpected
upset of the match came when Quarterman, Davidson's man of might who recently suffered a shoulder injury, was pinned by
Shipman. The fall came after one minute of the extra period fought in the match. Jim Hodgin, wrestling heavyweight for
the ‘Cats, finished the match off in short order when he pinned his man in 1:28. Three men left the
mat undefeated for the season. Two from Davidson, Captain Fort and Blackwelder, won over their opponents by a large time
advantage, while the other, Captain Blalock of (Continued on Page 6, Col. 3).

Play To Be Presented By Dramatic Club Soon

The Red and Black Masquers, a dramatic organization of the Davidson campus, will present a three-act mystery melodrama entitled “Three
Taps at Twelve,” around March 18 in the Chambers Auditorium. The play has been in rehearsal for about three weeks
under the direction of Eddie Donnigan and will be ready for presentation toward the end of the month, although a
definite date has not been set. The scene of the play is an old house on the shores of Lake
Michigan, and the plot is concerned with the murder of a swindler who has been defrauding the various members of
the cast. The scenery for the production is being prepared by Dave Herring and Bill Pearce. The cast for the
play will include: Miss Lucy Currie as the heroine; Fields Horine, the hero; Joe Dees, an inventor; Miss Latitia Currie,
his wife; Paul Harlan, a politician; J. W. Washburn, a dope addict; Dick Hillier, the murdered swindler; “Sky” Cline, an
All-American tackle from Alabama; and Miss Orrie Steele, a widow who has been swindled.

Barium Springs Day To Be Held Next Saturday

The annual Barium Springs Day at Davidson this year will be held next Saturday, featuring the final football practice between
the Reds and Greys. Other high spots on the day’s program will be a band concert by the Davidson Band
and stunts by the visitors from Barium Springs. All proceeds of the day will go to the upkeep of the
orphanage at Barium Springs. The final game between the two divisions of the winter football squad, the Reds and the
Greys, will climax their winter football drills which have been going on for the last six weeks under the tutelage
of Coaches “Doc” Newton and Gene McIver. The Greys have won three games to date as compared to one win
by the Reds, but this year the Reds have been reinforced by members of the basketball squad who have just
come out for practice and they are expected to give the Greys a run for their money on Saturday. This
day has been an annual event at Davidson for the past several years.

Matthews Injured In Accident Saturday

E. R. “Weenie” Matthews, of Gastonia, was critically injured by flying glass when someone threw a stone through the windshield
of the car in which he was riding last Saturday morning. Particles of glass entered both eyes, and it is
feared that he may entirely lose the sight of the left; he also suffered painful lacerations about the face and
is at present resting as comfortably as can be expected in a Charlotte hospital. Matthews was riding to Gastonia in
a car driven by S. P. Stowe. As the students were passing a group of men on the Gastonia highway
not far from Charlotte, someone hurled a rock at them, shattering the windshield. They stopped and questioned the men, but
none of them would admit any knowledge of the affair. The Davidsonian joins with his many friends in the student
body in wishing “Weenie” a speedy recovery.

ELECTION TO BE HELD ON MAR. 19

Student Council Recommendations Committee Will Nominate Men For Offices

The Student Body elections will start on Tuesday, March 19. All Student Body elections must be completed before April 24,
which is installation night. Convening on Monday, March 18, the Student Council Recommendations Committee will, in accordance with the provisions
of the Constitution, recommend for the office of the President of the Student Body four men from the rising Senior
class. For Vice-President of the Student Body, four from the rising Junior class, from whom two are to be selected.
From the rising Sophomore class, three men shall be recommended for the position of Secretary and Treasurer, from whom one
will be elected. This list of men will be presented to the Student Body and if further nominations are entertained
from the floor these will be accepted in the list to be voted upon. Recommendations will also be made by
the Student Council Recommendations Committee for the members of the Student Council. This complete list of men will be presented
to the Student Body on Tuesday, March 19. Following the election of the Student Body officers, Editors of the campus
publications will be chosen. The Editor of next year’s Davidsonian will be elected by popular vote of the Student Body.
Six men are eligible for office, including the present editor. Next year’s managing editors are chosen and elected by the
present managerial staff of the Davidsonian, including sports editors. The presidents of the various classes will then probably be balloted
and the president of the Y. M. C. A. and the president of the Athletic Association will follow. In accordance
with the amendment in the Constitution of the Student Body concerning elections, freshmen will not be allowed to vote in
these elections.

Chemistry Department Offers Science Movies

On Friday, March 8, another picture will be given in the chemistry lecture room, which consists of a picture on
the Cathode Ray Tube, one on Mazda Lamps Preferred, and another on Perpetual Light. There will be two shows, one
at seven o'clock and the second at eight o’clock, open to students of physics and chemistry. The picture of the
Cathode Ray Tubes describes the construction and operation of a large Cathode Ray Tube and shows the effect of Cathode
Rays on various minerals. The one on Mazda Lamps Preferred describes the manufacturing and development of modern household lamps. The
one on Perpetual Light is a description and demonstration of phototube-controlled thyratron tube. All these films are of a popular
nature and are furnished through the courtesy of the General Electric Company.

BIDS ARE EXTENDED TO STUDENTS BY PHI BETA KAPPA

Miller, Wood, Elvery, Porter, Orr, McCall, Ross, And Gullette Are Chosen

THREE NEW CHAPTERS

National Secretary Will Visit Davidson In May

Phi Beta Kappa Monday night opened its membership to eight more men of the Senior class, making a total of
sixteen men for the year, which is 12.5% of the Senior class. The list given out by Dr. P. H.
Gwynn, Jr., secretary, after the meeting of the local chapter Monday night, included T. D. Miller, G. R. Wood, D.
B. Elvery, R. M. Porter, R. L. Orr, C. S. McCall, G. B. Ross, and G. L. Gullette. The eight
men were recommended by the executive committee on a basis of grades through the first semester of this year. Miller
heads the group with an average of 2.918; Wood has 2.891; Elvery, 2.873; Porter, 2.852; Orr, 2.830; McCall, 2.817; Ross,
2.806, and Gullette, 2.764. From 3.0 to 3.5 is interpreted to be Summa Cum Laude and from 2.5 to 2.9,
Cum Laude. Men who are eligible for this honor are judged on two qualifications. First, they must have the highest
averages in the Senior class for three years; second, they must be of good moral character. Membership in Phi Beta
Kappa is, therefore, considered one of the highest honors which can come to a man during his college days. Phi
Beta Kappa is not only the most respected of all honorary fraternities, but is the oldest and largest honorary Greek
letter fraternity in America. It was founded at William and Mary College in 1776. It has grown steadily until there
are now more than one hundred chapters, with a membership of over 60,000. Its motto is “Philosophy, the Guide of
Life.” No members not actively engaged in college work were taken in at this meeting. Alumni and honorary members are
occasionally received with the new members in the fall selection. T. D. Miller is from Mooresville, and is a member
of the Spanish Club. G. R. Wood is from South Charleston, W. Va. He is the secretary of Sigma Upsilon,
head of the Red and Black Masquers, and also of Delta Phi Alpha. Wood is one of the few students
in college taking the honors work in English. D. B. Elvery is from Tampa, Florida. (Continued on Page 6, Col.
1).

Alumni Journal To Go To Press Soon

The fourth publication of the Alumni Journal will make its appearance in the latter part of March. The magazine will
have a cover similar to the last publication, being in a three-color arrangement with a picture of the college well
with a background of trees. In comparison with the last issue, the Journal will have approximately twenty-four pages instead of
about twenty and five thousand copies will be sent out. The featured story will be concerning Founders Day, April 9,
by Grier Martin. Contributing articles will be on the plans of commencement, general articles on the student body, faculty, and
personal articles on the alumni. The publication of this issue will be sent out as Volume II, whereas the last
issue was in Volume I. This will be the fourth publication of the Alumni Journal, with another issue coming out
in the latter part of May. The Alumni Committee has consented to publish five issues of the Alumni Journal and
at the end of that period they will decide as to whether it will continue or not; so the publication
in May may be the last of its type for some time.

Former Davidson Boy Honored At Princeton

Addison G. Brenizer, who, had he returned to Davidson this year, would have been a Junior, is reported as being
one of the three students from North Carolina to make the Princeton honor roll. Brenizer made a fine record during
his two years here, and was very much liked by all at Davidson.
