THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 2, 1935

YMCA BOARD TO REMODEL SOCIAL CENTER

Floors To Be Waxed, Woodwork Painted Cream, New Furniture Bought

NEW RADIO INSTALLED

Reading and Game Rooms Have Been Overhauled

Continuing its program of remodeling, the Y. M. C. A. Board of Control, at a meeting held Monday night, September
23, decided to repaint and refurnish the Social Center. The plans of the Board include sandpapering, varnishing, waxing, and polishing
the floors, painting the woodwork a cream color instead of the dingy brown that it is now, putting in new
curtains, and getting as much new furniture as they can. Albert McClure, General Secretary of the Y. M. C. A.
for the second year, in discussing the work, said, “The Social Center should serve not only as a place for
receptions and gatherings of the boys but also as a sort of headquarters for any of the families and friends
of the students who may be visiting here. At present it is entirely inadequate for that.”

The “Y” itself has undergone quite a change in the past month. The reading room has been repapered, a new
all-wave radio and a table lamp have been installed, and new curtains are planned. In the game room, the pool
table has been re-conditioned, the improvements totaling around fifty dollars. A ping-pong tournament is to be held sometime between Thanksgiving
and Christmas, though the date has not been definitely set.

Directory Reveals Odd Nomenclature

Freshmen Are First and Last In List of Names

By O. F. F. ANON

It’s an interesting list of names we have in the Student Directory for this year. The line-up is led off
by two frosh, Abbott and Abell. The same class also has the honor of being last in the school with
a Young, and Yow. Yow almost has the shortest name in College, but we notice other three-letter names: Cox, Eve,
Gaw, Orr, and Poe. There’s a Miss Adams, too, if you're interested, Mr. Eve.

Both Sophs and Frosh have successions of sibilant sounds in their Squires, Stair, Steele, Steere, and Stocks, Storey, Stowe, Street
combinations. The Frosh again take honors for being the most patriotic class (or is Alma Matriotic the right word?) with
two Davidsons this year. The Seniors of course, have one, but that’s nothing new.

Speaking of those short names has reminded me that Feuchtenberger still has the longest name on the hill, with Bill
Kieswetter running second. Really surprising is that instead of Smith leading the roll with the largest number of names, Johnston
is ahead with eight. After Johnston are the Thompsons and Browns, each clan with seven members. The Smiths tie for
third place with the Moore and Clark tribes, each having six collegians in their numbers. Joneses, usually considered to rank
next to Smiths, are ‘way down the list with only two.

Friend Quick must feel lonely, with no other Q's to keep him company, but at least he can console himself
with the thought that he has an outstanding place in the eyes of his school-mates. We notice he lives in
the Eagle’s nest, and if you will pardon us, Mr. Quick, for our reversion to the lowest form of humor,
we'd like to suggest that you've got to be Quick to live in an Eagle’s nest! Bill is almost in
the same class as the Wiss X’s, and Z's, on this list. If he were not there, he would be—n'est-ce
pas?

If names mean anything to a person's destiny, as some people think, we would like to suggest that the Arrowsmiths
and the Archers would get along well together; but the combination would hardly be complete without an Armstrong and a
Hand (to help Hunt). With all those, the Hunter ought to be Abell to Kellam, but here’s hoping he Winn-s,
and not the Bull. I also think that we ought to put Goodrum in a Glass and serve it to
the King, for that’s the Best we've got, and it ought to be good enough for any Mann. Of course,
a Goodman doesn’t drink or Smoak. “Dade your Furness Smoak?” “Yow-sir, and it Burns Dimm.” “Chase yourself, Young Mann!”

Riker and Cunningham Join Davidson Music Department

Pfohl Plans Very Busy Year For Band, Salon Orchestra, and Glee Club

The Davidson Music Department, under the direction of Prof. James Pfohl, with two additions to its faculty, has begun work
on what promises to be one of the most successful years in its history. Calls have been made for the
Glee Club, the Little Symphony Orchestra, the Symphonic Band, the R.O.T.C. Band, the Football, and the Second or Junior Band,
a new musical organization this year. These groups have met, organized, and begun their work. All these organizations have promise
of a most successful year, for almost all of last year's personnel has returned and some very talented freshmen have
reported. A very busy year is planned for these organizations with the regular weekly programs, the vesper and church services,
home concerts, and several tours.

Two additions have been made to the music department faculty this year. Mr. Franklin Riker, of Statesville, will come here
two days each week to teach voice, speech, and song. Mr. Riker is a very talented musician and an excellent
instructor. Mr. A. Moreland Cunningham, a last year’s graduate from Davidson, has returned this fall for graduate study and to
assist in the music department. He will assist in the band work, having charge of drilling the Football Band and
directing the Second Band.

ROTC Attracts Record Number

Terrors of Physical Education Send Students to Armory In Droves

Despite the fact that the requirements for those taking military drill have been made much more lenient this year than
previously, and despite the fact that this fact was made known prior to registration, there is a larger number of
cadets on the roster this semester than ever before. Those answering the call to arms number 382, all classes included.
Of the number in classes required to take military training, only 36 have been excused. Major Seifert adds, however, that
more than this number were originally excused, but, on finding that military work, as opposed to physical education, offered the
course of least resistance, returned to the ranks from which they had sought escape. Those excused obtained release through one
of these channels: previous military training, physical disability, the taking of pre-medical courses, and parental requests.

Work on the drill field is described by some observers as satisfactory; others, however, shake their heads, look grave, and
walk away. Opinions, merely opinions. It is reported, however, that at least a small percentage of the remarkable class of
'39 has learned the difference between the right and the left (though many are still hazy on what is right
and what is wrong), and the “Why?” is giving way to the more reasonable query, “How?” Rifles were issued to
the neophytes at the regular drill last Monday, and, as yet, a minimum number of casualties have been reported. The
first united effort of the Frosh to “Right Shoulder arms” was looked forward to with much misgiving. Of the 382
men enrolled in ROTC courses, 39 are seniors, 41 are juniors, 131 are sophomores, and 171 are freshmen. Still out
to drill come those brave ones, not “whom shape of danger can dismay” (however ludicrous many of those shapes).

New Type Program Will Be Permanent

The new type of football programs in use at the Elon game will be continued, according to Grier Martin, the
Publicity Director of Davidson College, in four more contests, namely those with North Carolina, South Carolina, Duke, and Citadel. There
is an expected sale of about four thousand copies in all. Several new changes have been brought about, such as
contrasting the snapshots of teams of long ago with those of last year’s and this year's plays.

SINGLE CUTS FOR VA. GAME

The vote of the student body Thursday, September 26, decided the fact that on Saturday, October 5, the day of
the Davidson-Virginia game, the student body would receive single cuts from classes. This single cut is effective for the entire
week-end.

Dr. Arbuckle Resumes Work

Chemistry Professor Returns to College After Long Siege of Illness

Dr. H. B. Arbuckle has returned to his post as head of the department of Chemistry at Davidson this fall
after an illness of several months. Dr. Arbuckle was taken with a heart attack in August, 1934, while in Virginia,
and after being moved to the Charlotte hospital was ill for some time. He convalesced at his home.Here is the
cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

here since spring. He was able to resume part of his work at the beginning of the second semester last
spring. He now returns to active teaching after 24 years of service at Davidson. This year he will teach two
sections of general organic chemistry, all of organic chemistry, and all of industrial chemistry.

Name Omitted From ROTC List Recently

Due to an unintentional oversight, the following names were omitted from the ROTC Staff in the last Davidsonian: Cadet Major
and Battalion Commander: Cole L. Windham, Cadet Captain, Staff: Ib Okey, Adjutant; Henry A. Cathey, Personnel Adjutant; William C. Training;
James Ross, Supply; Edwin C. Wooten, Master Sergeant and Battalion Sergeant-Major: Howell H. Overton.

Over Twenty Men Fail To Return To Davidson

More than twenty men from Davidson's three major classes failed to return to school this year; many of these having
entered other institutions. Those about whom the information is available are as follows:

Seniors—N. Frazier, J. Matthews, Earl B. Hayworth, E. R. Blakely, W. E. Young.

Juniors—Brinkersell, P. R. Ib, Sprunt.

Sophomores—C. Cathey, S. C. Ib, Bradford (to U. of Detroit), G. D. Cook (to Duke), H. T. Dyer, Franklin, N.
M. Heggie (to Se), D. M. Johnston, W. C. McClanahan (to U. of R.), W. Rogers, G. Jones (to Florida),
Porter, W. M. Dennis (to Hampden-Sydney), M. H. Mattocks, John Newman Cameron.

M. H. GOODRUM & CO.
Groceries—Dry Goods
Hardware—Radio Supplies
PHILCO AND GRUNOW RADIOS

Commencement Invitations
Fraternity Publications
1143 E. FOURTH ST.

Lamont Brown
Fine Printing
QUEEN CITY PRINTING CO.
Representatives
Visiting Cards
Personal and Fraternity Stationery
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

R. P. Morrow

Dr. Cumming Is On PMLA Board
Spends Summer Doing Research In Libraries
DISCOVERS NEW MAPS

Dr. Cumming has been working on the semi-centennial index volume of the Modern Language Association Publications, and on early American
explorers and cartography. Dr. Cumming was chosen as one of a staff of thirty experts to index all the volumes
of PMLA for the last fifty years. He is one of three professors appointed from the South.

In his researches on early explorers and cartography of the Carolinas, Dr. Cumming went to the Harvard, Yale, Brown, Congressfort,
and other libraries. He found several seventeenth-century manuscript maps, showing the results of explorations and settlements along the Carolina coast,
apparently hitherto unknown to historians of North Carolina. The result of the investigation of these maps, when published, will throw
new light on the extent of discovery on the South Atlantic coast at the time of the first permanent English
settlements. Dr. Cumming believes that he has found maps with the names of “Carolina” and “North Carolina” earlier than any
so far noted.

SCHEDULE OF MEETINGS OF Collegiate Ramblings

BUY ’EM CHEAP

“Many chapel seats,” reluctantly admits Hastings (Nebraska) grips numerous paddles relax. They wear green hats there, but—a freshman. Frosh at
Duke told to be prepared to deliver a three-minute speech at any time. And then there are the High Point
freshmen “who shall extend courtesy to upperclassmen at all times when bumming rides.” First-year girls at Rock Hill (S. C.)
unanimously selected the devil as their class mascot.

FROSH DON NIGHTIES

All freshmen at Duke University were required to participate in the first annual pajama parade of the year. This parade
took the form of a pep rally. (Girl students were not required to attend.)

COLLEGIANA

Salem College opened its 164th year this fall. This academy was established in Winston-Salem in 1772 and has been continuous
to the present day. Carolina (Chapel Hill) students are investigating conditions at various colleges and universities in the state in
order to find some remedy for their situation. The luxurious Duke eating establishments, isolated from city competition and offering students
only the highest grade of food prepared in modern kitchens, were found to be entirely different from boarding conditions at
Carolina. The price for a month’s board at Duke University dining halls is $25.50 for three meals a day and
$18.00 for two meals.

Drake University (Des Moines, Iowa) definition of a blind date: It's like a bee, either you get stung or you
get a honey. Fools rush in and park where angels fear to drive.

HONORARY FRATERNITIES

First and Third Weeks
Monday
Tuesday
Wednesday
Thursday
Friday
7 PM
Omicron Delta Kappa
Scabbard & Blade
Sigma Pi
Black Masquers
Pi Delta Eta
Sigma Phi Epsilon
Alpha Psi Omega
Sigma Upsilon
"Y" Cabinet

Second and Fourth Weeks
Monday
Tuesday
Wednesday
Thursday
Friday
7 PM
Alpha Phi Omega
Kappa Epsilon
Le Cercle Francais
Sigma Delta Pi
Alpha Alpha Gamma Sigma
Red & Black
"Y" Cabinet
Ministerial AC

A scientist on the faculty of the University of Wisconsin was amazed to find how pens that run out of
ink slow down classes, demoralize thinking, and bring marks that no student wants to write home about. His observations led
to the birth of the revolutionary Parker Vacumatic. This miracle pen writes 12,000 words from a single filling—shows when it’s
running low—tells when to refill! Any good store selling pens will show you how the Parker Vacumatic eliminates 14 old-time
parts, including the lever filler and rubber ink sac found in sac-type pens. And due to this, it has double
room for ink, without an increase in size. But don’t think that sacless pens containing squirt-gun pumps are like Parker's
patented Vacumatic. This new creation contains none of these. That’s why it’s GUARANTEED MECHANICALLY PERFECT!

GREEKS

PI KAPPA PHI—The N. C. Epsilon Chapter gave a feed on last Sunday night at the house. Okie Bankhead, Hamlet,
N. C., was pledged into the fraternity. In a recent meeting, Bob Tissue was elected as warden to take Van
Patterson’s place. Pledge officers were also elected as follows: Richard Lindsay, president; William Robinson, Jr., treasurer; and Paul Cooper, secretary.

KAPPA ALPHA—In a meeting held last Wednesday night, Bob Abell was elected president of the pledges. Visiting alumni over the
weekend included Taylor Marion, Billy Walsee, and Jeff Robbin.

PHI GAMMA DELTA—Dr. and Mrs. Cumming were present at a feed last Sunday night. The chapter was visited by Dick
Hayworth, Geddie Monroe, and “Chip” Monroe last weekend. The pledges are organized and election of officers will be held this
week. William B. Wieswetter was formally initiated into the Phi Gamma Delta fraternity last Thursday night.

SIGMA PHI EPSILON—Dick Vowles was chosen the outstanding freshman of the N. C. Epsilon Chapter by last year’s senior class.
Ned Iverson of Miami, Florida, was elected president of the pledge group for this year.

BETA THETA PI—In an election of the pledges, Julian Squires was elected president and Alexander Smith, secretary. Dr. and Mrs.
Oren Moore of Charlotte were dinner guests of the chapter last Wednesday night. Jake Balsey, Bill Atwater, and McClintock were
weekend visitors.

KAPPA ALPHA—In the recent election, Teeny Laffer was elected the most representative freshman at a meeting of the chapter.

KAPPA SIGMA—Fred Meagle, Billy Ravanel, and B. Ravenel were visiting alumni over the weekend. Fred, who is a highway patrolman,
is stationed in Charlotte. The election of pledge officers will be held this week.

Under New Management
DAVIDSON HOTEL
TRAINING TABLE
STEAM-HEATED ROOMS
Emory L. Wilson, Prop.

So he invented this sacless Vacumatic, and Parker engineered it to perfection—gave it a Reversible Point—solid Gold combined with precious
Platinum—skillfully fashioned to write on both sides—slightly turned up at the tip so it cannot scratch or drag, even under
pressure! Do this and you won't let an old pen impede your learning another day. The Parker Pen Company, Janesville,
Wisconsin. Send a Post Card for a Free Bottle of Parker Quink—the marvelous new quick-drying, pen-cleaning ink, and throw your
blotter away. Address Dept 712.
