RESERVATIONS FOR ROOMS MUST BE MADE THIS WEEK

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Vol. XXII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., MAY 10, 1935 No. 27

Cathey & Griffin to Head Student Store Next Year

Captains Men Appointed to Management of Publications

Name Business Manager of The Davidsonian, Yowl, Quips and Cranks

CHOSEN BY 35-36 BOARD

Morrow, Taylor, Grimes Respectively Selected

In recent appointments by the Publications Board, Prosser Morrow was selected as business manager of The Davidsonian, Mal Grimes business manager of the Quips and Cranks, and Mills Taylor business manager of the Yowl. The names of the men for each of these positions were recommended by the editors and business managers of each publication.

The following men were selected by Prosser Morrow to serve as junior members of the Davidsonian business staff: Charles Mauze, Bill Swop, and Bob Vance, circulating managers; Hoke Robinson, advertising manager; Bill Hill, collection manager; and Bill Deyerle, assistant business manager. Men eligible for these positions were those rising juniors who, during two years of service on the paper, have shown interest and the ability to carry on their work.

Mills Taylor has chosen the following rising juniors as his assistants on the business staff of the Yowl: Dan Franklin, Marshall Sanford, Lawrence Hill, Henry Mills, and Howard Dyer. The junior members of the Quips and Cranks will not be chosen until sometime during the summer.

Prosser Morrow was chosen as business manager for the following group: J. B. Goslin, Val Castles, Tom Ress, and J. S. McMullen. His home is in West Point, Ga. He is a member of Kappa Sigma society fraternity, Scabbard and Blade Military fraternity, and Gamma Sigma Epsilon, Chemistry fraternity.

Mal Grimes was chosen over the following men: Cokey Branton, Dick Hayworth, Dan Griffin, and Bob Lindsay. Grimes is from Lexington and is a member of Kappa Sigma society fraternity and the Country Gentlemen.

The men eligible for business manager of the Yowl were Dave Herring and Jim Knox. Lamont Brown's election to the editorship of the Davidsonian made him ineligible for this selection. Mills Taylor lives in Wilmington and is a member of Pi Kappa Phi society fraternity. He is also a member of the Student Council and a junior manager of the track team.

Dr. Frank Graham to Speak Monday

Athletic Day Will Feature President of University of North Carolina

President Frank Graham of the University of North Carolina will deliver the principal address of the Athletic Day program to be held in the Chambers Building auditorium at the regular chapel period on next Monday morning, May 13, according to an announcement made by Captain Norton G. Pritchett, Director of Athletics.

Due to previous engagements made by Dr. Graham, the date of the observance of this day has been of necessity changed from Tuesday, May 14. However, the program will be the same. In addition to the address, there will be awards of letters earned by participation in spring sports. Certificates will be given to all those earning their letters for the first time in any particular sport, and Seniors who have earned letters will be presented with certificates containing recognition of all their athletic accomplishments during their years as Davidsonian men.

The Intramural Sports winner will be announced, and the award given to the victorious class. The Physical education and Gymnastic trophies will be presented, and the Decathlon winner will be honored. The Fraternity Athletic cup will also be presented, if competition for it can be concluded before next Monday.

Captain Pritchett considers the college most fortunate in securing President Graham for this occasion. He hopes to have the hour of the ceremony set for ten o’clock, though it is possible that the time will be 9:20; the regular Monday chapel-hour.

O. D. K. Initiation Will Be Held Monday Night

Formal initiation into the Delta Circle of Omicron Delta Kappa of the sixteen men tapped recently in the annual spring tap-day ceremony will be held on May 13 at 6:30 P. M. Following the initiation, a banquet will be given in the Banquet Hall of Chambers for the new and old members of the O. D. K., and the members of the faculty.

Those who will be initiated at this time are: Prof. F. K. Fleagle, Capt. J. P. Grey, Duke Glasgow, Charles Harris, John Newton, James Morgan, William Ravenal, James Simpson, Joe Wadsworth, Lamont Brown, Carlton Chapman, Harvey Glass, Martin Barnett, Henry Cathey, Robert Lindsay, and Cole Windham.

Dr. Ruark Lectures Here

Carolina Physics Professor Speaks on “Building Stones of Matter”

Dr. Arthur E. Ruark, head of the Physics department at the University of North Carolina, spoke to an audience of about 200 students last Monday night in Chambers Auditorium on the subject: “Building Stones of Matter.” His lecture, which began shortly after, dealt principally with the nuclear side of matter—protons, electrons, positrons, photons, deutrons, and neutrons. It embodied a scholarly treatment of the principles underlying the cosmic ray, the alpha ray, and the beta ray.

Dr. Ruark’s lecture was made clearer by the use of slides projected upon the back wall of the stage. These demonstrated by photograph, drawing, and design, the finer points of his lecture. He began by dealing with Hydrogen, the simplest of atoms, and proceeded to take up the more complex ones step by step. He showed diagrams of several experiments that have been performed recently, dealing with the charges of atoms, etc. He also pointed out the presence of alpha, beta, and gamma rays. The story of their discovery and their widespread existence.

Several slides were shown depicting apparatus used to produce large electrical charges for the purpose of studying the behavior of such rays. The action of certain rays in different gases and also in unusual elements was shown.

He concluded by telling of the experiments of several leaders in this field and the possibilities for future development along these lines of nuclear chemistry. This lecture, under the auspices of the Faculty Committee on Public Lectures and sponsored by the Physics and Chemistry departments, was previously scheduled for early March, but was postponed.

Although this is Dr. Ruark’s first year at the university, he is the head of the Physics department there and has long been prominent in scientific fields, being in great demand as a lecturer on scientific subjects. Before his connection with the University of North Carolina, he was a research worker in the Mellon Institute of Industrial Research and lectured on Physics at the University of Pittsburgh.

(Continued on Page 6, Col. 1)

Managing Editors for Annual to Be Selected

Junior managing editors of the Quips and Cranks, college annual, will be selected sometime in the near future by Martin Barnett, editor of the yearbook for next year. Men eligible for the offices of sports, fraternity, photography, and activities editors for next year’s book are: John Abernathy, Howard Dyer, Billy Higgins, Bob Stewart, Bob Vance, Tommy Thompson, Charles Mauze, Jim Westall, D. B. Burnes, and Hal Overton. Four from the above list will be selected, and the rest will serve as assistants to the business staff.

Upper Classes Hold Elections for Graduation

Gordon Brown Is Elected Permanent President of Graduating Class

WEEKS ALSO HONORED

Hunter, Windham, Griffin, Lindsay Are Junior Marshals

G. H. Brown was elected permanent president of the Senior Class and K. D. Weeks the Marshall in the recent voting of the Senior Class; the Alumni Council was also elected and the Junior Class elected their marshals.

The following men were automatically elected to the Alumni Council because of the positions they held: “Skip” Brown, President of the Student Body; K. D. Weeks, Editor of the Davidsonian; Walter Sprunt, President of the “Y” Cabinet; A. J. Potter, President of the Athletic Association; and Fred McPhail, President of the Senior Class. Duke Hugh Ravenel, Bill Yelverton, and Bob Smith were also elected to the Alumni Council.

W. B. Hunter, Cole Windham, Dan Griffin, and Bob Lindsay were elected as the Marshals for the Junior Class.

Brown is a member of Pi Kappa Phi society fraternity, past President of the Student Body. In his Freshman year he was President of the Sophomore Class. He is also a member of the Delta Circle of Omicron Delta Kappa, national leadership fraternity founded at Washington & Lee in 1914.

K. D. Weeks is a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon, society fraternity, and past editor of the Davidsonian. He is a member of the Delta Circle of Omicron Delta Kappa and President of the Publications Board. His duty as Marshall will be to have charge of the program for commencement and to lead the procession at graduation.

The duties of the Junior Class Marshals will be to act as ushers and to look after the seating of the people attending.

Head Student Store

Dan Griffin and Harry Cathey were chosen as the managers of the Student Store recently by the Board controlling the Student Store. Dan Griffin was named as Purchasing Manager and Henry Cathey as Finance Manager.

Henry Cathey is a member of Pi Kappa Phi society fraternity, “D” club, Co-Captain of Varsity Football, Sergeant-Major in R. O. T. C. Department, a member of Delta Circle of Omicron Delta Kappa—national leadership fraternity, President of the Athletic Association, Vice-President of the Student body for the year 1934-35, and a member of Scabbard and Blade.

Dan Griffin is a member of Phi Delta Theta, Scabbard, Business Staff of the Annual, and football. The Board is chosen annually to supervise the operation of the Student Store, and has complete control over the profits. The Board is composed of: Jim Batte, “Skip” Brown, Mr. Jackson, Mr. McGill, Jimmie Simpson, “Shy” Taylor, and Bill Ravenel. The managers are selected based on their ability and interest they have shown in the work.

About twenty years ago the Student Store was present on the campus in one form or another. It was in different students' rooms who had agencies for the selling of certain articles, tailor-made clothes, etc. These agencies were handed down from one class to another and carried on in this manner. The first Student Store was in the basement of Watts; this was an honor arrangement. As this was unsatisfactory, the store...With no clerks, a delegation was sent to Washington and Lee University to study their honor store. Soon after, this plan was put into action at Davidson, and clerks were hired. When old Watts dormitory burned, the Student Store was moved to the present building just behind dormitory row. As the business increased, a manager was employed. At first, the funds went to the Athletic Association as they gave the Student Store some of the agencies for athletic goods which they bought from year to year. When they were putting up the new Chambers building, they patronized the Student Store, and the problem arose as to what should be done with the increased profits. It was decided that this should be placed in a fund for a swimming pool. Since a pool was too expensive, it was voted by the Student Body two years ago to place this money in a (Continued on Page 6, Col. 1).

Davidson Circle Francais Concludes Dramatic Season Here On May First

Two French plays were presented by the Converse chapter and the Davidson chapter of Le Cercle Francais in Chambers Auditorium last Wednesday evening, May 1, at 8:00 o'clock. Davidson first gave Moliere’s Le Medecin Malgre Lui. The cast was as follows: Sganarelle — J. W. Hassel, Martine — Harvey Glass, Robert — J. S. McMullen, Valere — J. C. Cothran, Lucas — Carlyle Lewis, Geronte — T. F. Wood, Jacqueline — Archie Coleman, Lucine — J. F. Simpson, Leandre — Bob Coit, Thibault — W. F. Pierce, Perrin — Val Cassells.

The plot of the comedy is laid around Lucinde’s playing mute in order not to be forced by her father, Geronte, to marry someone other than her true lover, Leandre. Sganarelle, a woodcutter, is tricked by his wife into posing as a famous doctor. Through his efforts, the lovers are finally united. Robert, a meddlesome neighbor; Lucas, a simpleton, and his wife, Jacqueline; the pompous Geronte; scoundrel Sganarelle; and a great deal of back-beating add comedy to the play. Valere, a servant; Thibault, a peasant; and his son, Perrin, play more or less important parts.

The Converse group then gave a dramatized version of the old tale of the Middle Ages, Aucassin and Nicolette. The cast was as follows: Aucassin — Lloyd Williams, Nicolette — Gertrude Cooks, Count of Beaucaire — Lois Hamilton, Countess of Beaucaire — Ruth Johnston, Viscount — Margaret Smith, Abbott — Elizabeth Lyles, Duenna — Florence Wade, A wounded soldier — Sarah Eitton, Shepherd — Frances Poole, Old men — Elizabeth Johnston, Grace Beacham, and Thelma Stone, Young women — Ruth Henry, Louisa Landham, and Virginia McMullan, Soldiers of Beaucaire — Virginia Rector, and Helen Holt, Emir — Margaret Lanham, Saracen soldiers — Florence Leach, and Louise Foster, Sage Manager — Mary Scales.

The play deals with the efforts of the young lord, Aucassin, to win the fair Saracen maiden, Nicolette, as his bride; and his final success, in spite of the disfavor of his father, the Count of Beaucaire. Don Pfohl, flutist, and Mr. Warren Babcock, cellist, accompanied at the piano by Prof. Bailey, furnished music between the acts.

This was the third and final presentation of Le Medecin Malgre Lui. It was played twice before, once in Johnson Hall at Winthrop College on March 13, and again in the Converse College auditorium on April 29. The Davidson and Converse chapters of Le Cercle Francais have been exchanging meetings each year for several years. Each year, the members of the two clubs prepare a play. They then visit each other and present both plays at each school. Plans for these joint meetings for next year are already being made. It is expected that the two clubs will unite in another joint production by next November.

Griffin, Cathey Named To Prof. Porter Is Chosen President Of Academy

North Carolina Academy Of Science Elects Davidson Head

Prof. W. B. Porter was elected president of the North Carolina Academy of Science, and Prof. W. N. Mebane was elected chairman of the Mathematics department at the recent meeting of the academy held in Greensboro, N.C. Professor H. B. Arbuckle and O. J. Thies representing the chemistry department, J. M. Douglas and H. E. Fulcher representing the Physics department, W. N. Mebane and W. G. Gavock representing the mathematics department were delegates from Davidson College.

Prof. Porter, for the last twelve years, has been a prominent member of the academy, having served four years on the committee. Professor Porter is head of the Biology department here. The North Carolina Academy of Science is one of the best of its class and is a growing organization. The attendance at the meeting held May 4, in Greensboro was the largest in its history.

Military Group Honors Juniors

Bids Issued To Fifteen On Basis Of Leadership And Military Efficiency

Fifteen Junior non-commissioned officers were pledged in the annual ceremony of the Scabbard and Blade organization during the R.O.T.C. parade last Monday afternoon. The order published by Captain Adjutant Batte issued formal bids to the following juniors on the basis of leadership and military efficiency: Sergeant Major H. L. Cathey, First Sergeant A. L. Bulwinkle, First Sergeant J. W. Hassell, First Sergeant J. M. Hodgin, First Sergeant C. L. Windham, First Sergeant I. C. Wooten, Sergeants W. M. Archer, M. J. Barnett, W. C. Branton, Dan Griffin, W. B. Hunter, R. P. Marrom, C. L. Okey, J. R. Pearce, and W. M. Taylor.

The whole day Tuesday was set aside as the day of informal initiation. The usual routine of horse-play followed, including the carrying of bricks in the regular knapsacks. The sight of many prominent rising seniors carrying on in such a freakish manner served to satisfy in some measure the desire of the departing seniors to see their successors put through their clownish paces. The formal initiation ceremonies will be conducted in the Quadrangle room tonight at eight o'clock by Captain Charles Fort, Commanding officer of Company B, Fifth Regiment. The local unit had planned to have a dinner-dance in Charlotte, but the interference of Carolina’s May Frolics last weekend and the beginning of the fraternity house-parties this weekend precluded the possibilities of such an event. Scabbard and Blade is a national organization of reserve officers which seeks to recognize leadership and military efficiency.

Local Drug Store Will Offer Free Ice Cream

The College Pharmacy, in introducing Biltmore ice cream as a new refreshment, offers a sample of that product in a novel advertising scheme. The Pharmacy will send out to the members of the student body announcements of the introduction of the product to the soda fountain. These announcements, according to Hugh Sapp, soda jerker of the Pharmacy, are good for one heaping Dixie cup of Biltmore Ice Cream to be served exclusively by that drug store. The advertisements must be submitted to the College Pharmacy on Thursday evening, May 9, to obtain the free sample of the new product.

Pritchett Will Leave Davidson Post

Athletic Director To Serve In Same Capacity At University Of Virginia

Seven Years Service At Davidson Brought To Unexpected Close

VACANCY YET UNFILLED

Founders Of Present Intramural Sports System

Captain Norton Goodier Pritchett, for seven years Athletic Director, track coach, and Professor of Physical Education at Davidson, has announced that he has definitely accepted a similar position at the University of Virginia. He has been corresponding with University authorities for several weeks and on Thursday made final arrangements for taking over the position of Dean of Athletics. He is to be director of all athletics and Professor of Physical Education.

During his stay at Davidson, Captain Pritchett coached the track team and has turned out several record breakers in a comparatively short time. He started Davidson's present system of intramural sports, which is recognized as being one of the greatest contributions to Davidson's athletic world. While here at Davidson, it was Captain Pritchett who arranged the football schedules, obtaining games with the best teams in the east and south, bringing many of them to the home field.

Captain Pritchett was born in Monroe City, Mo., where he attended the public schools. He then went to the University of Tennessee in 1911. Later, he attended the University of Louisiana where he remained for three years. Here he participated in such sports as football, baseball, boxing, wrestling, and track. He then went to Louisville Training School in 1914 in the capacity of professor of English, director of Athletics, and commandant, until the time of the World War when he joined the army in 1917. After the war, Capt. Pritchett returned to the U.S. and became athletic director and English professor at Sewanee Military Academy, where he stayed for two years. He then spent six years in the same capacity at Woodberry Forest. In 1928, he accepted his present position at Davidson and has remained here since. (Continued on Page 6, Col. 1)

Leaders Of Y. M. C. A. Installed Sunday

Professor E. A. Beaty Delivers Charge To New Officers And “Y” Cabinet

The newly elected Y. M. C. A. officers for the coming 1935-36 school year were installed into office at the regular Y vespers service last Sunday, May 5. Professor Beaty, of the Latin department, was the speaker for the occasion. He took for his subject “How the Campus of Davidson College Compares with the Standards of Christ.” In his talk, he criticized some phases of the campus life, but for others he had nothing but praise.

The new Y. M. C. A. officers who were installed were: president, Harvey Glass; first vice-president, J. W. Dickson; second vice-president, Wade Boggs; and general secretary, Albert B. McClure. The new cabinet members are: department of chapel services, Martin Barnett; department of deputations, Wade Boggs; department of music, Harris Bradley; department of student life, Carlton Chapman and Kenneth Scott; department of publications, Paul Harlan; department of social life, Bill Kiesewetter; department of Sunday schools, Carlyle Lewis; department of freshman work, R. B. Lindsay; department of evangelism, John McMullen; department of vocational guidance, Sid Marsh; department of boy’s work, A. W. Shuford and John Walker.

The services were scheduled to be held outdoors, but due to inclement weather conditions, were held instead in Chambers auditorium. Music was rendered by the college band.