DOWN DUKE

WELCOME ALUMNI

The Davidsonian

VOL. XXIII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., NOVEMBER 6, 1935 NUMBER 6

HOMECOMING DANCE SET WILL HOLD SPOTLIGHT OVER WEEK-END

Social Fraternities Plan House-parties; Alumni Expected To Attend

POYNER’S BAND TO PLAY

Hotel Charlotte To Be Scene Of Both Dances Of Set

Home-coming dances will be held this coming Friday and Saturday, November 8 and 9, the music being furnished by Jimmy Poyner and his orchestra. The dances will be held in the Hotel Charlotte. The Pan-Hellenic Council was unable to get the Armory for the Saturday night dance, so they engaged the main dining room of the Hotel Charlotte and all available space adjoining the dining room for the Saturday informal dance. This space will be twice as large as that available in the ballroom. The formal dance will be held Friday night in the ballroom of the Hotel Charlotte and will last from ten until two. There will be no tea dance Saturday afternoon, due to the football game. The Saturday night dance will be informal and will last from nine o'clock until twelve. The old custom of having four breaks at each dance will be continued, say the Pan-Hellenic members. This band played last year at the Davidson Bowery Ball, and this summer at Virginia and Myrtle beaches. The orchestra has added three new instrumentalists and a new vocalist to its ranks since playing here last year. Their other vocalist, Key Scales, the boy with the close-cut hair and large personality, will be present again. The highlight of this weekend will be the Home-coming dances. Many of the fraternities are having other social entertainments and a large number of girls are expected for this, the Home-coming dances.

A very interesting program has been planned for the entertainment of the alumni and students. In the morning the Symphonic Band will present a concert, later an alumni luncheon, and the football game between the Duke Blue Devils and the Wildcats Saturday afternoon.

Downie Is Elected President Of I.R.C.

GREETINGS GIVEN ALUMNI By LINGLE AND CHAPMAN

President Of College and President Of Student Body, Extend Home-coming Day Welcome To Returning Grads

By DR. W. L. LINGLE

Of course, there will be a hearty welcome for all those who come back to the old College on Home-coming Day next Saturday. The very expression “Home-coming” carries with it the implication that you are simply coming back home, and home is one of the dearest places in all the world. There is always a welcome for us back at home. We are hoping, therefore, that you will come back with that home-like feeling. Your very presence is going to bring good cheer and morale to our team as they play Duke. A football game does not depend solely upon mere force, or even upon a bag full of tricks. It depends much upon the spirit and morale of the team. Come and put all the enthusiasm and spirit that you have back of the team. In the same way, the success of the Faculty and Administration depends largely upon the thing that we call morale. We are dealing with things that belong to the realm of the mind and spirit. Your presence and friendly cooperation always strengthen our hearts and hands and give us courage to press on. So we are always glad to see you back. Nothing so heartens us as to see a great group of alumni and friends back at the College in a spirit of friendliness and cooperation. We are eager to be of any possible service to you while you are here. You will, therefore, do us a kindness if you will let us know of anything that we can do.

By CARLETON CHAPMAN

For Davidson students, Home-coming Day is indeed a great occasion. We look forward to it each year primarily because it affords us an opportunity to renew friendships, which have so great a part in making our college days one of the happiest periods in our lives. Secondly, we enjoy the great pleasure of having on our campus those alumni whom we do not know, and whose acquaintances we earnestly desire to cultivate. Lastly, we expect a great football game, in which expectation we are never disappointed because of the consistent worth of Davidson football teams. We who are now students at Davidson, cannot fail to realize the infinite joy and value of college friendships. You who have graduated, no doubt, have this realization far more vividly than we do. It is with the greatest sincerity that we invite you back this Home-coming Day, so that we may renew and perpetuate these friendships. Several times, I have unexpectedly run across old Davidson men, and have strongly felt the great fraternal feeling existing between all who are, or have been, associated with Davidson. Unquestionably, there is a bond which follows us wherever we go, and evidences itself whenever two Davidson men happen to meet. Thus, we look forward with great anticipation to meeting the alumni who have graduated before the coming of the present student generation. Davidson athletic teams speak for themselves. Never has the spirit for which the college is justly famous failed to be present.

A. A. E. SPEER DELIVERS ANNUAL LECTURES

Addresses Begin Dec. 1st; Will Continue From Sunday Through Wednesday

FRIENDS ARE INVITED

Speaker Is Eminent Minister Of Presbyterian Church

Dr. Robert E. Speer, of New York City, will deliver the annual Otts Foundation lectures in Chambers Auditorium during the first week in December. The first lecture in this series will be heard at the Vesper service on December 1, and the remaining three will be heard at the Chapel hours on Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday. The Otts Foundation at Davidson College was endowed by Rev. J. M. Otts, in 1893, the income on which was to be used for the purpose of securing distinguished speakers, from time to time, to deliver at the College courses of lectures in defense of Christianity against current heresies, especially such as may seem directed at the foundations of the Christian faith.

Dr. Speer is one of the most prominent ministers in the Presbyterian Church. He received his B.A. at Princeton, his M.A. at Yale, his D.D. degree from the University of Edinburgh, and his LL.D. from Rutgers University. He has written numerous books on religious subjects, including many on Foreign Missions. In 1927, Dr. Speer was the Moderator of the Presbyterian Church in the United States, and he is an Ex-President of the Federal Council of Churches in America. He has been Secretary of the Presbyterian Board of Foreign Missions since 1891.

There have been six courses of these lectures already given. The first was given in 1893 by Dr. Otts and was published under the title, “Unsettled Questions.” The second course of lectures was given in 1897, by Rev. R. L. Dabney, D.D., LL.D., and was published under the title, “Christ Our Penal Substitute.” The third was given in 1904 by Rev. J. B. (Continued on Page 3)

Band To Give Concert

International Relations Club Will Choose New Members This Fall

Tom Downie was elected president of the International Relations Club in their first meeting of the year held Monday morning, Nov. 4.

New members will be chosen sometime this fall, it was announced. The club was unfortunate in losing a number of members through graduation last spring.

The members of this group are chosen only from the Senior and Junior classes. The club was founded on the campus of Davidson College in November 1914. The purpose of the club is studying and discussing current national affairs and problems of national and international scope. Speeches by various professors and an open forum discussion constitute, in the main, the meetings of the club. The faculty members of the I. R. C. are: Dr. C. K. Brown, Prof. Archibald Currie, and Dr. T. W. Lingle. The International Relations Club is one of the most active honorary groups on the Hill. Each year there is held an annual I. R. C. Conference. Tentative plans have been announced for the Southeastern Conference to be held at Winthrop College on December 12 and 13. Colleges in North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, Mississippi, and other southern states are included in this conference. The International Relations Club is a national student organization.

Frosh Number Of Yow! Will Be Published Soon

Downie and Taylor Have Charge Of Publication

The Freshman number, the first of the 1935-36 Yow! will greet the campus any minute now. The Yow! is Davidson’s humorous publication. Tom Downie succeeds Lorenzo McPhail as editor. Mills Taylor is handling the business affairs and Howell Grier Martin, our efficient Alumni Secretary.Overton heads the art section and the bill perfectly. In this, its sixth issue, Downie succeeds as editor while department. Important contributions for the opening copy are Treadway Purnell’s and Gib Smith’s lovely lyrics, Harry Kuykendall’s and Harold Howell Overton’s clever cover stories, and a more detailed account is withheld for the reader’s benefit. Sugg’s snappy As usual the staff is allowed two issues per semester; the second will appear later, in Christmas garb, with a carefree holiday spirit predominating. We are looking forward to getting some side-splitters. Incidentally, additional copies are to be on hand and may be obtained by contacting Editor Downie or Manager Taylor.

Masquers To Present Recent Broadway Hit
Excellent Cast To Portray ‘Whistling In the Dark’

The Red Black Masquers have just imported the play “Whistling in the Dark” from Broadway, where it had a very successful run. This show deals with the adventures of Wallace Porter, writer of novels about crime, who stumbles into a “for rent” house only to find himself in the midst of a well-organized gangster. In an attempt to get him to leave they give him hints that his absence is greatly to be desired, but to no avail. He merely brags about his plots of “the perfect crime,” and boasts that he could commit a murder and leave no clues whatever. Hearing this, the mobsters lock Porter and his girl-friend, played by Mrs. Grier Martin, in a room and instruct them to either plan a clue-less killing of the Crime Commissioner, or be slain for not doing so. From this point on the play hits a very humorous stride, with Wally, better known on the campus as

For Homecoming Grads

For the Homecoming on Saturday, November 9, the Davy College Band will give a program at 11:30 A.M. in the Chambers Auditorium and will give a march entitled “Davidson,” written by Mr. Franklin Riker of the Davidson Music Department, in a special arrangement by Mr. James Christian Pfohl, director. This piece by Mr. Riker is dedicated to “boys, young and old, of a new Davidson.” Also included on this same musical program will be “Introduction and Bridal Chorus,” from Act II, of Lohengrin by Wagner; “In a Monastery Garden,” by Ketelby; “The Children’s March,” by Goldman; selections from “The Merry Widow,” by Lehár; ending with the immortal “Stars and Stripes Forever,” by the famous Sousa.

On the afternoon of the game, the band will play for the Duke-Davidson football game on Richardson Field. Some special formations and musical numbers have been arranged for the occasion. Both of the Davidson Drum majors will be seen twirling two batons, which is a feat that has never before been accomplished in the state of North Carolina. This feature of the Davidson Band giving a morning concert on Homecoming Day was inaugurated last year and met with the heartiest approval of the alumni and visitors. An unusually large crowd of alumni and visitors are expected for the weekend and the Davidson-Duke game.

N.C.C.P.A. WILL MEET AT DUKE
Lamont Brown To Lead North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
WRITERS TO LECTURE
Seventy-Five Delegates Are Expected On November 7-9

The North Carolina Collegiate Press Association will hold its annual fall convention November 7, 8, and 9 in Durham. W. Lamont Brown, president of the Association, will preside at the semi-annual banquet in the Washington Duke Hotel Friday evening. The following colleges will be represented at the convention: Duke, North Carolina State College, North Carolina College for Women, Queens College, Meredith, Wake Forest, Flora MacDonald, Appalachian State College, High Point College, Guilford, Atlantic Christian College, and Davidson College. Approximately 75 delegates are expected to attend.

The Washington Duke hotel will be headquarters for the convention. Registration will commence Thursday, November 7, at 2:00 p.m. and continue through 5:00 p.m. Philip M. Russell, treasurer of the Association, has completed plans for a very interesting program. The first thing on the schedule will be an organ recital in the Duke Chapel at 8:15 p.m. This will be rendered by Mr. Edward H. Broadhead. On Friday morning the various committees will be appointed after which discussion groups will be formed. Each group will be under the leadership of some outstanding figure in journalistic fields and will discuss problems which arise in collegiate publications. Professor Herbert W. Sugden of Duke will address the editors of the newspapers. Mr. Andrew M. Beck, of Edwards & Broughton Engraving Company, will deliver an address to the business managers of all publications. Mr. Edward Fowler, of the Seeman Printing Company, will speak to the editors of magazines, and Mr. Arthur Sickle of the Lassiter Press, to the editors of annuals. After the group discussions, meetings will be held to discuss various matters, and an informal tea will be held between 4:00 and 5:00 p.m. This will be held in the old East Duke building. In the evening at 8:00 p.m. the banquet will be held at the Washington Duke hotel at which Mr. Henry R. Dwire, director of the Duke. will speak. There will be a dance to be taken up Saturday.

Debating Schedule For Year Is Being Planned

The schedule of debates for the year is slowly taking form, announces Harold G. Su debate man. The University of South Carolina and the University of Miami have indicated a desire to meet Davidson College on the Southern tour. Several other schools will be included on the trip, but no definite plans have as yet been formulated. Other schools that have tentatively arranged debates with Davidson are Washington and Lee, who will debate on this campus; University of the South, at Sewanee; and Swarthmore College. The debating tryouts will be held, as scheduled, on the fifteenth of November. Wade Barrow, and the girl having an unusually large crowd of alumni and visitors are expected up for the weekend and the Davidson-Duke game. Material for the debates has been moved to room 306 in the library.

HOMECOMING ATTRACTS MANY ALUMNI
BLUE DEVILS MEET ‘CATS IN HIGHLIGHT OF FOOTBALL YEAR
Homecoming Luncheon Will Be Held In Banquet Hall Of Chambers
QUERY WILL PRESIDE
Dance Set At Charlotte Hotel To Climax Week-End

Davidson graduates from near and far will return to the campus Saturday, November 9, for the annual Homecoming Day exercises of the College. The main feature of the program is the Davidson-Duke game to be played on Saturday afternoon, this being the twelfth game between the two schools. Alumni will register in Grier Martin's office up until 11:45 Saturday morning. At this time they will go to Chambers Auditorium where they will be given a concert by the College Band. The musical selections will last about thirty minutes, and at twelve-thirty the alumni will adjourn to the annual luncheon. The regular Homecoming Alumni luncheon will be held in the Banquet Hall of Chambers Building, and all Alumni, their families and friends are cordially invited and urged to be present. Hugh Query, '09, of Gastonia, president of the Alumni association, will preside at the luncheon as toastmaster. There were over three hundred alumni at the last luncheon, and an even larger crowd is expected this year. This year is the 25th anniversary of the 1910 Championship football team of Davidson College, and many members of that year’s student body are expected to attend. Members of the Championship Team will be on hand, along with the team itself. They will have a special table at the Alumni luncheon, and will sit on the players’ bench during the game, a place never frequented during their Halcyon days. At the luncheon they will be called on for individual speeches by the toastmaster, Alumnus Query. The main attraction of the day is of course, the game in the afternoon to be called at 2:30. Around ten thousand people are expected for the event. After the game, alumni who did not arrive in time

Alston Speaks On The Modern Mood
Young People’s Director Urges Audience To Conquer Present Trend

On November 3, Alston spoke on the modern mood. His text was divided into three parts: the twelfth chapter of Paul’s letter to the Ephesians, “For our wrestling is not against flesh and blood, but against principalities, against powers, against the world-rulers of this darkness, against the spiritual hosts of wickedness in the heavenly places.” The second text was the sixth chapter and thirty-third verse: “For the bread of God is that which cometh down out of heaven.” His theme was that the modern mood is one of fear and that we must conquer it. Quoting from a play, he said, “We know not which way to turn.” He defined the Modern Mood and what it consisted of; they are: Fear dominates the life of men and of the nations of the world, it dominates the thought, drains our resources and takes the heart.