THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 13, 1935

YOUNG MINISTER PROVES POPULAR

Rev. Peter Marshall Makes Strong Appeal To Davidson Student Body

"If you are simple, you will receive religion; if you are wise, you will believe religion,” stated Rev. Peter Marshall
in his Sunday morning sermon, “The Church Asks Youth, So What?” at the Davidson College Presbyterian Church, February 10.

Rev. Peter Marshall, in his Sunday morning sermon, stated that there are mistaken ideas held by a great many people
in regard to religion. It is considered, he continued, an achievement when young people evince any interest in religion. The
Church “regards religion as a dope which naturally makes its appeal to the middle-aged who are thinking of more serious
things and to the aged who, in the weakness of their last days, seek something on which to lean. There
are also the timorous souls who have lost the daring of their courage and require a spiritual sedative to soothe
their jangling nerves. You say you cannot identify yourself with the Church and Her faith because of the supernatural elements
in Christianity. Is it on scientific grounds? Is it because of the supposed contradiction of natural law? The late Mr.
Edison said: 'We do not know one-seven-billionth part of one percent about anything.' Are we not presuming rather much when
we say dogmatically that so and so is impossible? And, having been told by the ignorant that science and religion
are not to be reconciled, you assume that evolution eliminates God,” Rev. Marshall pointed out. “I might be impressed if
you had as much knowledge of that to which you object, as you have of the natural law which you
worship. You say you can’t accept miracles and other supernatural elements in the Bible, and the chances are you do
not know much about them. Shall the Church surrender Her beliefs because modern young people cannot accept them or shall
She throw overboard these traditions that have been cherished through all these centuries? Young people,” said Rev. Marshall, “the Church
knows about the tears and the broken hearts which the world has no interest. From her clinic, standing among Her
children are some who are all burned out—spent in the twenties with disillusioned, disappointed and despaired. The Church wants to
know; ‘So What?’ In the murderer's cell, the hungry souls call for the Church and ask for a humble prayer.
But in health and bright lights, only the music of a rhumba can be heard because they have no need
for the Church; ‘So What?’”

In concluding his speech, Dr. Marshall stated the Church is formed first by the simple, that great mass of men
and women whose ignorance is more illumined than the doctrines of learned men. They prefer to be instructed by the
angels or the ambassadors of God. Then the Church is found by the wise, the real seekers after truth. If
you are simple, you will receive religion; if you are wise, you will believe religion.

John Douglas introduced Rev. Marshall at the evening Vesper service. Rev. Marshall’s address was “The Cock Crew.” The last supper
was over. It was a sad meal at which the disciples had lost their appetites. Christ had spoken of betrayal.
He had plainly said that one of their number would betray Him and that He would die. The disciples asked
in turn: “Lord, is it I?” And they heard Peter say: “Though all men shall be offended, yet will I
never be offended.” Those seated around the table thrilled at the brave, confident statement on the part of the impetuous
Peter. But now, the meal is over—but something of its atmosphere lingered with them still. It was a feeling that
could not be shaken off. They climbed the hillside and reached the Garden of Gethsemane where among the olive trees
they found a peace in which to muse and rest. In a short hour, they were to witness the fulfillment
of a prophecy made that evening and of prophecies made by prophets of old. Dr. Marshall continued the series of
events leading up to Peter’s denial of Christ.

(Continued on Page 6, Col. 5)

PAGE PERSONNEL

Following its announced plan of giving the name of each managing editor and his part in the issue's composition, The
Davidsonian shows the work of the following:

Issue Editor: Martin Barnett.
First Page: John Walker.
Third Page: P. Y. Harlan.
Sports Page: Lamont Brown.
Fifth Page: Tom Marchant.
Sixth Page: Martin Barnett.
Assignment Editor: Harvey Glass.

PETITION TO TRUSTEES

(Continued from Page 1)

The authorities have at the same time sought to prevent a reprehensible indulgence in completely unsupervised dancing, which would necessarily
be the refuge of the students; and they have recognized Davidson dances off the Davidson campus under appointed faculty supervision.
In doing this, they have apparently had the good intentions of letting the situation find its own keel, hoping that
forbearance from further intervention would amount to leaving the whole matter by natural process to right itself. But things have
not turned out fortunately. And here we would make it plain that we are absolutely not criticizing the action of
the authorities because their action was at the time certainly very expedient; nor are we laying any blame to those
who supervise the dances, for they have supervised them well. We are, however, laying direct blame to the situation itself,
to the bare fact that there is a foregathering of students in Charlotte at certain regular periods of the year.
It would make little difference if some other activity were substituted for dancing, because very few of the attendant evils
are actually connected with the dances themselves. If there were periodic illustrated lectures given in Charlotte which a certain percentage
of the student body was required to attend, the same evils would most probably exist.

In the first place, we find drinking almost a universal evil connected with Davidson dances. We say “connected” very advisedly
because only a negligible amount of drinking occurs among those dancing. But a great many students find that the occasion
of a Davidson dance in Charlotte is an excellent opportunity to accompany those who are going to the dance, and
under the cover of a general exodus, to visit immoral resorts and to drink. Certainly, it must be concluded that
a large proportion of those who go to Charlotte never reach the dance floor, since dancing under the influence of
liquor is rare, while it has been estimated by count that 60 percent of the upperclassmen, who have been in
Charlotte during a set of dances, have been seen in the act of drinking. In this estimate, no suppositions were
accepted; those were counted only who had been seen.

Another evil we find connected with Davidson dances in Charlotte is the traffic hazards. No serious injury has ever been
sustained by students during a set of dances; but there have been several incidents in which automobiles driven by Davidson
students were crowded off the road into ditches during the journey to a Charlotte dance. And we think we do
not go far wrong in ascribing the non-occurrence of serious accidents to the kindness of Providence when we remember that
those going to dances in Charlotte go in very much overcrowded automobiles along a necessarily congested route. This traffic hazard,
we cannot help thinking, amounts to a serious condition indeed.

Still another evil which is probably more insidious than apparent is the presence of undesirable outsiders at Davidson dances held
in Charlotte. Strange men are accompanied by strange women; and both are often of unsavory character. No wonder some observers
claim that Davidson students are not in the habit of asking nice girls to their dances. We ourselves doubt that
they do invite indecent women; but the presence of unwanted persons of both sexes can hardly either raise the standards
of the dances, or be an inducement to the students for asking their sisters or the friends of their sisters.

When one considers the above outlined, one can hardly fail to see that instead of encouraging an improvement of the
dance situation, the authorities, by their attitude, have virtually, though unwittingly, connived at a deplorable and intolerable state of affairs.
We are not blaming our elders for acting in a way which they have thought to be for our best;
but we are wondering if they realize the exact results of what they have done; and we are making a
plea for better things. If, however, dances were held on the Davidson campus they would be strictly Davidson dances, invited
affairs, and not “script.” Thus outsiders would be eliminated. The dances would be far more democratic, since they would be
cheaper and because of the great reduction in the expense of putting them on and consequently open to a larger
number of students. And the traffic hazards would be eliminated. Furthermore, students would have no readymade excuse to sally forth;
the presence of alumni with small real respect for their alma mater but with great capacities for drink would be
far more easily eliminated; and, finally, drinking among students would be under complete control. This last is no idle hope,
but is easily seen to be true when one considers that the student council which has reduced drinking on the
campus to a minimum would control drinking at dances on the Davidson campus.

And yet—it may be said—if dancing is in itself a wrong thing there can be no justification whatever for its
being practiced on ground which has been held as a sanctuary exclusively for the good and spiritual things pertaining to
the Church. We cannot, and do not wish to gainsay this argument. Yet we cannot help stating that though we
realize our own shortcomings we do not feel ourselves to be far different from all the youth gone before us,
which attended Davidson in earlier days, and which formed its traditions, and growing up formed the traditions of the church.
We believe ourselves to be clean, steadfast young people. We would not be prideful, but we credit ourselves with a
degree of spirituality. We do not believe that we are stooping to do an indecent thing by dancing; and we
do not believe that we are lowering ourselves by taking part in it. Popular opinions are usually thought to be
ill-considered; yet we cannot help acceding, after due consideration, to the popular opinion that dancing has become a conventional form
of social activity. Of parents of members of the senior class who were questioned as to whether they would have
sent their sons to Davidson had dancing at the time been allowed, eighty-six percent replied in the affirmative. It seems
indeed that a large number of us are not gainsaying any parental guidance in holding our opinions.

Ugly things have been said about the motives which a majority of Davidson students have in asking girls to dances.
We only know that a large number of these girls are blood-relations and certainly within our own social sphere; and
we feel that though a few instances may have warranted these assertions, those instances were vastly encouraged by existing conditions.
It has been said that dances on the campus would be as vicious as those in Charlotte. Again we are
left with nothing to answer, we can only reply that the activities of the Students Policies Union during the last
few months have been motivated by the deepest sincerity, and as such can hardly be said to have been participated
in by young men who would vainly endeavor to replace one evil by another. We are not working for change
which would in some way bring about added zest to evil-doing. We find ourselves besieged by undesirable social circumstances, and
if given the chance to effect a remedy we can betrusted to do our best in attempting to achieve that
remedy. There are, though, almost meagre physical facilities for dancing on the Davidson campus at present. And so we petition
the Board of Trustees to allow us a trial period for dancing on the Davidson campus under whatever supervision the
Board of Trustees may deem proper.

Respectfully submitted by the Student Policies Union,

adequate “Run it...”

AT THE LOCAL THEATRE

Wednesday and Thursday, Feb. 13 and 14
LIVES OF A BENGAL LANCER
Gary Cooper plays the lead as the young English soldier; Sir Guy Standing is the commanding officer, Franchot Tone is
another officer under Cooper; and Richard Cromwell is a recruit officer and the commander's son. There are many good barrack
scenes and many fine action shots.

Friday, Feb. 15
ENTER MADAME
Elissa Landi plays the leading role as an Italian opera singer and is supported by Cary Grant. Miss Landi is
not as good in this role as in many of her previous ones, but it is very entertaining.

Saturday, Feb. 16
RED HOT TIRES
This is a fast-moving and breathtaking racing picture in which Lyle Talbot plays the lead.

Monday and Tuesday, Feb. 18 and 19
WE LIVE AGAIN
This is the second starring vehicle of that new Swedish star, Anna Sten. She is supported by Fredric March. Miss
Sten gives a very good performance and all who missed her first picture should see this.

MASQUERS PLAN PLAY FOR MARCH
“Three Taps At Twelve,” A Mystery, Is Chosen By Players As Next Production

The Red and Black Masquers, local dramatic organization, will present their second play of the year sometime during March. The
title of the play is “Three Taps At Twelve,” and it will be directed by Edward Donigan. The play, which
is a murder mystery, is presented in three acts. The murder is committed in the first act and the remaining
two acts are devoted to the solution of the crime. Practically all of the characters are under suspicion for having
committed the crime, and it is not until the very end that the real murderer is caught. The solution to
the murder is very startling and the suspense adds much to the interest of the play.

The cast of characters is as follows:
Jameson Edwards - Dick Hillier
Dick Edwards - E. F. Horine
Joe - P. Y. Harlan
Harmon Gage - Joe Dees
Martha Gage - Mrs. Jane Baker
Miss Steele - Edwin Dahlbeck
Cassandra - Lucy Currie
Catfish Carruthers - A. C. Cline

NEWS FROM DAVIDSONIANS of Years Gone By

FIVE YEARS AGO
Wildcats defeated 33-30 by Duke five in thrilling battle... William Ellsworth to deliver lecture series... Georgia and Florida alumni meet
in seven cities... V. P. I. Freshmen defeat Wildkitten five 26-21... ’Cats in form to down three Virginia quintets... R.
D. Russell, Junior, wins trophy in rifle contest... V. P. I. defeats Davidson in wrestling meet 19-11... Spring football well
under way.

TEN YEARS AGO
Davidson and Durham Elks split pair of basketball games... Wildcat mat men win match with State, but drop one to
Navy... Baseball practice starts in rain... Freshman quint defeats Mooresville and Concord... Norman Patterson elected captain of wrestling team... Five
deputations visit neighboring churches... Juniors becoming enthused over nearing holidays...

FIFTEEN YEARS AGO
Davidsonian banquet at Selwyn Hotel is elegant affair... Juniors announce subjects for hoped-for masterful orations... Clemson conquers Wildcats in classic
basketball game... Eumenean Society installs officers... Class football postponed... Many students are suffering from “flu”... New appointments made in R.
O. T. C. department... Virginia basketball trip cancelled...

Among the GREEKS

Beta Theta Pi
The Phi Alpha Chapter initiated seven men last Saturday, February 9. They were: Moir Hall, Elkin; Bill Hobbs, Asheboro; Irving
Hogan, Burlington; Charles Malone, Louisiana; Harry McLaughlin, Charlotte; Oren Moore, Charlotte; and Jack Overall, Springfield, Ky. Among the alumni present
at the banquet given with the initiation were P. B. Beachom, Jr., Wadesboro; J. D. Tall, Statesville; Jimmy McClintock, Charlotte;
“Shine” McMillan, Charlotte; Dr. Oren Moore, Charlotte; J. A. Winn and John I. Smith from Greenville, S.C. A banquet is
to be given in Charlotte in the Chamber of Commerce Building on Saturday, February 16.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon
Brothers Ed Armfield and Joe Wadesworth were present over this last weekend at a set of dances at Sweetbriar College.
The initiation for the Theta Chapter will be Wednesday, February 13.

Kappa Sigma
The new officers installed the past week for the new year are: Ben Rose, G.M.; Fritz Byerly, G.P.; Gordon Greene,
G.M.C.; and Bill Higgins, Treasurer. The initiation will not be held until after mid-winters. Many of the brothers enjoyed a
“feed” last Sunday night at the house.

Phi Delta Theta
A very enjoyable feed was given last Saturday by the Gamma Chapter with the Darlington basketball team as its guests.
Julian West, Charlotte, and William McGeachy, Winston-Salem, were alumni visitors over the weekend. A banquet to be given at Efird’s
in Charlotte on Saturday, February 16.

Sigma Phi Epsilon
Recently awarded by the seniors of the Epsilon Chapter was a plaque for the most valuable freshman in the class
of 1934. The brother was J. T. Morton, of Bullock. The initiation will not be until after Mid-winters. At Efird’s
in Charlotte on February 16, a banquet will be given for the brothers attending the Mid-winter dances.

PLEDGES WADE THROUGH FRATERNITY INITIATIONS

IVEY-GRAM RENEWAL
Although the Ivey-gram has not appeared in the last few issues of the Davidsonian, this renewal carries some style hints
for the “collegiate.” As stated before, it is the purpose of Ivey’s to keep Davidson men posted on just what
is being worn by the style leaders of the country. The items of clothing mentioned in the following paragraphs are
merely suggestions, but these suggestions and many other items may be secured from Ivey’s at what college men consider reasonable
prices!

FOR THE FORMAL
Since Mid-Winters are only three or four days away, Ivey’s suggests that you take stock of your wardrobe for the
dances, especially for Friday night. Remember that tuxedo shirts should carry two studs these days and that gray pearl studs
are mighty stylish with tails. As for bow ties, Ivey’s has both black and white, and Hickok for both tux
and tails.

BUTTON! BUTTON!
Button-down collars, accessories which were popular some time ago, have regained their lost popularity through the medium of sanforization. You
remember how they invariably shrank out of shape after the first washing... this new sanforizing process has eliminated all this,
and you can now wear this new collar and shirt with the “greatest of ease.” Stripes are being featured and
these aforementioned shirts have been designed especially to go with the new plaid ties. Dark shirts and light ties are
the latest combination!

YOU'RE THE TOP
That is exactly what the new Mallory “knock-about” hats are! These new hats have been designed to suit the needs
of the “young folks” and they are just what the name indicates. Almost any color you want with one of
those delightful and stylish looking medium brims... not so narrow that you have to say “rim” and not so wide
that they look “wild westernish”... Drop by Ivey's and have a look at the “knock-about.”

CHECKS AND SUEDES
New spring ties have arrived bringing along an array of checks, stripes, and the like. Bright colors in rough weaves
and stripes in various silks carry enough lightness to make a young man’s fancy turn before Spring actually gets here.
Brown suede shoes (styled by Florsheim) are quite the thing. Not only wing-tips, but plain-toed shoes with crepe soles are
extremely sporty. Before you buy, visit Ivey's and see Florsheim’s latest... You'll like the suede.

NICKEY WINS WINGS
Sam Nickey, who graduated from Davidson last year, recently made his first solo flight at Memphis, Tenn. after only eight
hours of instruction. Nickey had about 300 flying passenger hours to his credit, having flown all over the United States
and Europe before ever attempting to fly himself.

Freshmen Arouse Suspicion Around Cemeteries, Henhouses, And Barnyards
Bow ties, suitcases, tux collars, white shoes, dogs, autographed eggs, and lighted candles have recently made their appearance in the
ranks of the Freshman class, with the coming of informal fraternity initiations. Also noticeable among the red-cap men, not being
confined to any one fraternity, were dark circles under the eyes of pledges, an indicator that possibly what goes under
the eyes of the Student Body is not all that happens to neophytes during the much-dreaded informal initiation.

One obvious omission this year from the time-honored favorites was that of alarm clocks draped around the necks of the
luckless freshmen. Some yearlings, however, became quite conspicuous with one white and one black shoe, while others suffered many a
dripping pocket owing to undue pressure on hand-decorated eggs. One pledge group persisted in presenting all comers with toothpicks accompanied
by a puzzling speech, and if you haven't heard, be sure to ask them the reason for their lighted candles
each night. People living near the local cemetery have reported strange flickerings seen repeatedly at all hours of the night
among the stones, and of dark crouching forms systematically moving from grave to grave. A remarkable increase in the number
of freshmen walking toward Cornelius and Mooresville, concerned with mysterious tabulations, has also been observed.

Rural residents exercise especial caution in locking up the henhouse door each evening, but despite their efforts, the barnyard population
is on the decline. Several cases of strayed horses and cows have been reported, while dogs and cats are at
a premium due to the sudden demand. Freshmen seem overloaded as their bulging pockets betray the presence of several brands
of cigarettes, chewing gum, mints, cough drops, matches, toothpicks, gum drops, and penny candies. Strangely enough, said pockets are soon
emptied by encounters with the “good brothers,” and numerous treks to the Stud Store result. Another noticeable innovation is the
sudden deep respect shown by pledges as they address their upperclassmen as “Sir” and “Mr.” The faces of a few,
whose tribulations have not yet begun, show deep lines of worry because of the bewildering question: “When?” Others show extreme
fatigue, their question probably being, in biblical terms: “How long O Lord, how long?”

Becoming more numerous every day, however, are those chosen few who regain former dignity under their red hats and strut
about with beaming faces, exhibiting new fraternity pins likewise beaming on their chests, while the yet-suffering ones enviously gaze through
sleepy eyes at those who have already attained the fabled goal they hope some day to reach. Initiated into the
Epsilon Chapter last Thursday night were the following men: Phillip Arrowsmith, Florence, S. C.; Alex Bowles, Asheville; Tom Cameron, Raeford;
Ralph Chandler and Henson Maples, Pinehurst; William McLean, Jamaica; Joe Kellem, Briscoe; Dick Melcher, Mooresville; Jimmy Wilson, Lake City, Florida;
and William Yelverton, Wilson. The new furniture for the lodge is expected soon.

Dress Shirts - $2.50
Wing Collars - 35c
Black Bow Ties - 65c
Stud Sets - $1.50

This Season’s TUXEDOS are different! Did you know that this season's black silk vests had a squared-off lapel? We did!
Did you know that the general lines of the shoulders were squared off this season for a tapering effect? We
did. That's why we've the reputation we have. See us before the dances... sure!

Have You Gotten Your TUXEDO?
