4:° THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 20, 1935

Noted Pianist
(Continued from Page 1, Col. 3)

“Jazz will leave its impressions in music annals, but I doubt whether it will be a deep or lasting impression,
as jazz is shallow and of little worth as real music. Many modern American composers and some European composers, namely,
Ravel and Tansman, have attempted mingling jazz, or suggestions of jazz, in their works, but none except Tansman has been
overly successful in their attempts.”

“Do you think teaching produces a musical decline in the teacher?”

“In my case, I do not find it noticeably so, as I give very few concerts during my teaching year,
but when a man has to devote himself to several sides of music, and not to his specialty, it does
produce a decline.”

“Whom do you consider the greatest pianist of the day?”

“That’s a difficult question, but I believe I would say Horowitz. This man has attained a new level. In other
words, he has accomplished things that pianists have hitherto thought impossible. But, of course, that does not mean there are
no greater heights to reach.”

“How do you think the piano compares with other instruments?”

“That, too, is a difficult question. It is plainly visible that the piano cannot carry a sustained tone or a
tonal quality like some instruments, but the piano can utilize more than one or two notes at a time. The
whole keyboard is at the fingers of the pianist. Then, too, this instrument is absolutely necessary to so many other
instruments as accompaniment or background. It is somewhat a question whether orchestral effects can be obtained as in the organ,
for instance, but I believe that, to some degree, the piano does have the power.”

Then, on leaving, I couldn't resist pulling an old stock question on a man with such boyishly friendly ways. “What
are your hobbies?”

“Well, I'm so busy during my teaching year that I have very little time for anything else. I always buy
a faculty season ticket to athletic events with the intention of attending all the contests, but I never succeed. Last
year, I saw all the football games, but I missed the basketball season entirely.”

Then after a lighter vein of conversation, I left, somewhat reluctantly. It is a distinct pleasure to find as accomplished
a musician with a pleasing personality such as his. He exhibited no reticence in answering my questions, but, instead, a
boyish eagerness to express his opinion. Such a type of man elevates the general opinion regarding music and the musician.

Doc Charley
(Continued from Page 1, Col. 2)

A story is told by Captain Pritchett of “Doc” Charley during that memorable game with Wake Forest in 1932, in
which the 'Cats gained their first Deacon scalp for several years. It was in the third quarter and the Deacons
were pouncing “that thin, red line” for all a Demon Deacon was worth. “Doc” Charley was in the corridor under
the stadium praying. Enoch, another Wildcat of the darker race, says that Charley was a good boy. Enoch is his
step-father. “I raised him until he was twenty-one, told him to do what was right, and he went on his
own hook after then. ‘Doc’ Charley was always on the job.” Thus spake his father.

“He learnt me my ABC's. We went to Sunday School together and was taught by Davidson boys. He got me
my job.” And this time it was HuJohn, Charley’s half-brother. HuJohn remembers back in the days of the old Medical
School here how Charley used to scare him, telling him that the spirits of the dissected “corpses” would get him
if he didn’t do right.

As nearly as can be calculated, Charley was born in 1887, the son of Mary Wilson and Ed Johnson. His
father died and his mother re-married; and young “Doc” came under the care of Enoch. He lived in Mecklenburg County
all his life and received bits of his education at a negro school, taught by a Mr. Baker and Rev.
Brody. In his early life he attended a Sunday School taught by Davidson students and was later a faithful deacon
of the colored Methodist Church across the tracks. He married about 18 years ago and has one daughter, married. He
was a friend of Wildcats in two senses, being the only one whom “Felix,” the college mascot, would allow in
his cage. Home-coming days he was one of the first to be hailed by alumni of all age and vintage.
Athletic directors here praise him for his unswerving loyalty. Enoch says of him that wherever he went he had a
friend.

Sunday afternoon he received his wife and HuJohn at the hospital and seized HuJohn’s hat to keep him from leaving.
He wanted to go home and called for Dr. Oren Moore and Captain Pritchett. Funeral services were conducted this afternoon
at the negro burial ground near the golf course. Many Davidson students and alumni gathered to pay their respects to
this darkey friend.

Craig Talks
(Continued from Page 1, Col. 1)

ing,” in which Bacon says, “The opinion of plenty is among the causes of want.” “We are so prone to
be satisfied with our present positions that, our opinions of plenty are contributing to our causes of want.”

In passing on he read the first of four propositions which were in line with his subject. It was, “The
past is not dead and cannot safely be allowed to die.” In contrast with this, Dr. Craig said he viewed
with no alarm the tendency of modern youth to act as it does. Every two generations has had its modern
youth question. He quoted several writers of the past on the subject, concluding finally that youth will not bear the
last generation's burdens until it becomes imperative; they prefer to kick just as long as they can.

One of his most arresting thoughts in connection with the first proposition was that we can learn to consult the
opinions of the best minds of the past by reading and studying what they wrote. His illustration was that if
he were properly trained, he could, by a study of Woodrow Wilson’s writings, probably discover what he thought about the
questions confronting our present-day government. We can learn to interpret others’ minds if we only train ourselves. It was rather
a new note to hear a speaker at Davidson refer to the War President as Woodrow because of personal friendship,
or as Dr. Wilson, since we are likely to forget that the former Davidson man was also a college president.

The second proposition was, “Learning must be taken seriously.” We should have a definite idea of what we are working
toward and then do our best to achieve our goal. F. J. Childe, who has done such outstanding work in
bringing Americans to a better understanding of the popular ballad, is a man who has applied this proposition. Childe has
done some of his work in the North Carolina mountains where there are still to be found some of the
old folk ballads.

The third proposition, “The modern world ought to determine to stand out from the crowd.” Little menand ordinary men become
lost in the crowd, but truly great men never are. This is an age of wiseacres, or pretenders to knowledge,
but they are destined not to rise above the crowd. The last proposition was, “We must devour the serpent of
enchantment.” This, he explained, was a reference, also from Bacon, to what he called Moses’ serpent, but which we know
better as Aaron’s serpent which devoured the serpents of the enchanters of Egypt. “Learn to think individually, and do not
let the world do your thinking for you,” he said. In closing, Dr. Craig made the following statement which he
said he offered for the thoughtful consideration of students and faculty: “Try without comment, The progress of our race is
due to the advance of science.” Keep in mind his earlier definition of science.

Nathan Will Speak (Continued from Page 1, Col. 6)

Institute of Economics in Washington and later lectured at New York University. He was appointed economic advisor to the President’s
Emergency Committee for Employment. Before and after this service he lectured before a number of universities and other audiences and
was offered a professorship at the Wharton School of Finance, University of Pennsylvania. Dr. Nathan voluntarily left the German government
service in March, 1933, in consequence of political developments in that country. He is now visiting lecturer and member of
the faculty of Princeton University. He will speak on “Problems of World Recovery.” There will be round table discussions on
Friday on The Far East, Central Europe, the League of Nations, and the Munitions Industry. Alabama universities and colleges which
will have representatives at the Conference are: Alabama Polytechnic Institute, Birmingham-Southern College, State Teachers College, Florence; State Teachers College, State
College, Livingston; Judson College, Alabama College, State Teachers College, Troy; Woman's College of Alabama, and University of Alabama, Jacksonville; Teachers

CARS FOR RENT
Gulf Gas and Oil
M. P. HENDERSON

College Trustees (Continued from Page 1, Col. 2)

the Trustees and their chosen administrative officers, who include the Executive and various other standing committees of the Board as
well as college officials. There are forty-nine Trustees of Davidson College, thirty-three of whom are elected by the Presbyteries of
North Carolina, four by the Presbyteries of Florida, and twelve by the Alumni Association. All are elected to serve for
a term of four years. The Board meets twice a year, once in February and once in May, at the
closing of college. At the mid-winter session most of the college policies are decided. When not in session it is
represented by the Executive Committee, which is chosen at the first session of the year and is empowered to act
for the Board in such matters as demand immediate attention. Present officers of the group are: Dr. R. A. Dunn,
of Charlotte, President; Mr. H. Smith Richardson, New York, N. Y., Vice-President, and Mr. S. A. Robinson, Gastonia, Secretary.

Recent Dances (Continued from Page 1, Col. 5)

and his sponsor, came through the door in the heart. Each sponsor received her gift from Miss White, the president’s
sponsor. When all of the participants in the figure had been introduced, a colorful spectacle was presented. As a grand
finale to the figure, those taking part began to dance in the midst of colored spotlights, and flickering little lights
representing stars coming from a polyhedral revolving light hanging in the center of the room from which white and red
streamers were stretched. The orchestra played “Stars Fell on Alabama” in an enchanting, subdued tone that brought more than one
“oh” from the audience. The dance continued then until two o’clock, when it was closed with a remarkable arrangement of
“Good Night Sweetheart.”

Kappa Sigs (Continued from Page 4)

The Kappa Sigs are making a strong bid to retain the Inter-Fraternity Athletic Trophy, held by this fraternity for the
last four consecutive years. Kappa Sigma and Sigma Phi Epsilon entered last night's contest with 27½ points each toward this
year’s supremacy in sports as a whole. On Monday night the tentative starting line-ups for Tuesday night’s game were:

Kappa Sig S. P. E.
Hugh Gracey Forward Jack Jenkins
Hank Loftin Forward Martin Barnett
Ben Rose Center Charlie Yager
“Booty” Wingfield Guard Dudley Elvery
Billy Ravenel Guard “Dopey” McCall

Reserves for the Kappa Sigs were announced as Fritz Byerly, Tom Morrison, Jewell McLaurin, and Bob Sours; for the S.
P. E.’s, Ray Gilks, Jim Knox, Frank Taylor, Bob Orr, and Henry Lyons. Opinion was, on the eve of the
conflict, that the teams were evenly matched.

Wildcat Grapplers (Continued from Page 4)

By virtue of Davidson's victories over Carolina and Duke, State will be met next in a contest which will decide
the state championship as well as the superiority of the two teams.

Summary:
118—Moffatt, Davidson, fall over Darden in 4:27 minutes.
126—Thompson, Davidson, time advantage of 2:22 over Lytle.
135—Ward, Carolina, time advantage of 9:29 over Parker.
145—Gholson, Carolina, time advantage of 2:23 in two extra periods over Owen.
155—Bonner, Carolina, fall in 8:49 over Quarterman.
165—Efland, Carolina, time advantage of 1:12 over Hodgin.
175—Fort, Davidson, fall in 7:16 over Ranson.
Unlimited—Blackwelder, Davidson, time advantage of 7:49 over Gwynn.

Referee: Bailey (High Point “Y”).

Meet March First (Continued from Page 4)

Parker and Bill Deyerly seeking to replace Pratt and McPhail at the hurdles. Dickson, Pierce and Byerly will handle the
sprints. George Gullette will again work in the distance runs. Brightening the rather disheartening losses of the varsity squad will
be the unusual possibilities in the freshman team. Coach Whittle announced this week that the outlook for a successful freshman
track team is brighter than for several years. An early look-over of the material shows Wade Barrow a prospect for
the sprints and the hurdles, John Grimm in the 440, Parcell in the mile, and Paul McLanahan, a transfer from
a junior college and therefore eligible for freshman track, a good prospect for the half-mile. Other men who have had
good high school and prep school records are “Red” Freeman in the weights, Monroe Wicker in the hurdles, and Leonard
Fort, brother to the renowned wrestler, Charlie Fort, at the pole vault. Both the varsity and freshman teams will enter
the U. N. C. indoor track meet, March 9. They will enter the events open for non-Conference schools.

Kittens Bow (Continued from Page 4)

Wade Barrow, stellar forward captain of the Kittens, now leads the team as high scorer, having piled up 69 points
during the season. Close on his heels is Bill Kieswetter, who has a total of 62. Third in order is
Lawrence Reid, co-captain, with 28. Other high scorers are: Bill Harris, 26; Dan Iverson, 18, and “Max” Reinhardt, 13.

Stuffy Head

Just a few drops up each nostril. Quickly, breathing again becomes clear!

With Carl Brisson, Mary Ellis, DEVIL DOGS Davidson Theatre THURSDAY, FEB. 21 WINNING TICKET With Leo Carrillo, Louise Fazenda and
Ted Healy FRIDAY, ALL THE KING'S HORSES Katherine De Mille SATURDAY, FEB. 23 SEQUOIA MONDAY AND TUESDAY, FEB. 25 AND
26 With James Cagney, Pat O’Brien, Margaret Lindsay and Frank McHugh Feb. 22 Edward Everett Horton and OF THE AIR
