THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 20, 1935

’CATS VS. STATE IN TITLE WRESTLING MATCH FRIDAY NIGHT

In the Field of Sports

TRACKMEN TO ENTER INDOOR MEET IN CHARLOTTE ARMORY

by MANOR BROWN

DOC CHARLIE

As we go to press, a cloud of dismay overshadows the Wildcat’s lair, saddening the hearts of many past and
present Davidsonians who knew Doc Charlie and are bemoaning his summons to the great beyond.

For nearly thirty years, Doc Charlie was a good and faithful servant of Davidson College. He ministered to the ailments
of its athletes, provided for their needs so far as he could, and won for himself a place in the
hearts of all whom he served. Charlie was a Wildcat tried and true. If ever there lived one who would
willingly give his life for a Davidson victory, Charlie was he. Many is the time he has been heard, during
a Wildcat contest, supplicating the Almighty for “his boys” to win, and he constantly carried a rabbit's foot in his
pocket for the sole purpose of bringing good luck to Davidson teams. Even though a humble darky, Doc Charlie’s place
at Davidson was beglamoured by his faithful service and love for the privilege of serving his white friends.

GRAPPLERS TRIUMPH

Coach Unger’s Wildcat matmen are now within a stone’s throw of the state championship, and if they continue at their
present pace, it looks as if they will arrive. N. C. State is the only barrier between them and the
title, but formidable as the Wolfpack may appear on paper, I believe the Ungermen have just the Waterloo that has
been awaiting those West Raleigh lads.

Leroy “Big 'Un” Blackwelder, reporting Saturday night on the match with Carolina the evening before, said that all of the
good rasslers from Davidson got licked by the Tar Heels, but Captain Fort and himself. That, of course, was meant
jokingly; nevertheless, these two stalwarts were largely responsible for the ’Cat victory. Fort, having been out of bed from mumps
only since Wednesday, had lost enough weight during his illness to wrestle in the 175-pound class, so he and Blackwelder
exchanged places for the Friday night contest. When the Wildcat went on the mat, Carolina was leading in score 14-8.
After seven minutes of diddling with the Tar Heel foe, Charlie decided it was time to start grappling, so he
proceeded to pin his man and bring the count to 14-13. “Big 'Un” then took on his opponent in the
unlimited class and put the Felines in front by garnering a time advantage of more than eight minutes over his
adversary. Unger is priming his proteges for the State contest, and barring any more unexpected mishaps, they should be in
fine fettle for the Wolves by Friday night.

QUINTET LOSES

Last Tuesday night, the Wildcat cagers paced the Duke Blue Devils for the entire distance until a few minutes before
the close of the contest when they let down long enough to allow the Dukes to equal their score and
finally emerge with a 35-34 victory. Coach Laird seems to have the number of this Durham aggregation. There was only
a very slight margin between the Davidson and Duke score the first time the teams met in Winston-Salem, soon after
the Christmas holidays.

CAROLINA, DUKE, AND HIGH POINT DOWN WILDCATS

Tar Heels And Pointers Win Handily, Blue Devils Capture Thriller

CONTESTS ARE CLOSE

Harris, Morgan, and Peabody Play Outstanding Ball

The Wildcat basketeers went through a disastrous series last week, losing games to Duke, Carolina, and High Point College. Davidson
now stands at the bottom of the Big Five Conference with the Tar Heels evidently lodged permanently in first place.

Davidson 34; Duke 35

In an extremely thrilling and hard-fought battle on the Blue Devil courts at Durham, the Wildcats dropped a heartbreaker, 34-35.
Davidson led throughout the contest up until the last ten seconds when Kunkle, Duke forward, tossed the ball back over
his head for the winning goal. At the half, the score was Davidson 19, Duke 14, but a determined spurt
in the closing minutes of the game, coupled with Kunkle’s freak shot, netted the Blue Devils a victory. Peabody, diminutive
Wildcat forward, led the scoring with 13 points to his credit.

Davidson 26; Carolina 38

At Chapel Hill, February 13, the Wildcats were beaten by the strong Tar Heel quintet, 26-38. The smoothly clicking Phantoms
went to work at the opening whistle and soon piled up an impressive lead, which they held throughout the contest.
The score at the half was Carolina 24, Davidson 7. Nelson with 14 points and Glace with 8 led the
scoring for the Tar Heels, while Harris with 10 and Morgan with 8 were outstanding for the Wildcats.

Davidson 43; H. P. College 51

Saturday night, the Wildcats journeyed to High Point, where they met defeat at the hands of the High Point College
basketeers, 43-51. The game was very close and the lead shifted from one team to the other as the game
progressed. The Purple Panthers played heads-up ball all the way, and in the last few minutes gained a permanent lead
over the Wildcats. Jim Morgan, Davidson center, played a wonderful game and led the scoring with a total of 20
points. Culler of High Point was second with 16 points.

Sophs Win Over Frosh In Third Soccer Clash

The sophomore soccer team defeated the freshmen in the third game of the intramural soccer tournament by a score of
3-1 Tuesday afternoon, February 12, on the freshman field. Since the freshmen were not able to furnish a complete team
of eleven men, the game was played with nine men to a side, the right and left halfbacks being left
out in each line-up. The Centennials scored early in the game, but the yearlings came back in a few minutes
and slipped on through the sophs’ goal to even the count. The Centennials scored again before the half, however, and
after the half, they made two more, but one of these didn’t count, as a sophomore forward was offsides. Captain
Ken Scott, Frank Brown, Gene Vogler, Graham Squires, Johnny Brown, and Bill Link starred for the Centennials, while Captain Sam
Cothran, Charlie Bixler, and Doug Neal were outstanding for the yearlings. This game was scheduled to be between the seniors
and sophomores, but the seniors have withdrawn from the tournament because of lack of interest in this class. Audley Gammon,
captain of the senior class team, refereed this game.

Despite the Wildcat’s loss, they proved their ability to loop with the leaders. Duke is bidding fair for the Southern
Conference Championship which takes place in Raleigh the latter part of this month, and they have defeated during the current
season such formidable opposition as Carolina and Army, so even a score as close as Davidson played them is no
mean showing for the Wildcats.

(Continued on Page 5, Col. 5)

SERVICE QUALITY HOTEL DAVIDSON VARIETY QUANTITY

Mackorell Is Leading In Flaming 5 Contest

On Monday morning, Johnny Mackorell’s name headed the list of those who have received votes as candidates for the Flaming
Five athletes of the Carolinas. He was trailed by George Barclay, whom he led by several votes in this Charlotte
Observer sponsored election. Jim Morgan was also among those who had received great numbers of votes. Each year, the Observer
sponsors this election, which last year found Mackorell voted the best athlete in the Carolinas. Barclay and Stasavitch, who had
polled the second and third highest number of votes, were both members of the 1934 Flaming Five. Mackorell and Morgan
both bid fair to be at or near the top of the list this year, but they must have backing.
With the support they deserve from the student body they have served so well, these two Wildcats will top the
list. Therefore, the sports staff of The Davidsonian urges you to mail your vote to the Observer sports department NOW.
Coupons will be found in the Observer each morning; or, if it is more convenient, the votes may be submitted
on a postcard. The main thing is to vote for Davidson's candidates, and to do so at once, that the
state-wide praise they merit may be theirs.

KAPPA SIGS AND S.P.E. IN FINALS

Two Fraternities Make Strong Bid For Inter-Fraternity Athletic Trophy

The 1935 season of inter-fraternity basketball was completed last night by the final game between the Kappa Sigma and Sigma
Phi Epsilon fraternities. The score of this game is not available as this paper goes to print. In the opening
game of the season, the strong Kappa Alpha team was defeated by an even stronger S. P. E. team, the
close score being 8-7. Following this game, the S. A. E.’s beat the Betas, 21-11. Then the Kappa Sigs, who,
with all the fraternities except S. P. E. and K. A., drew a bye in the first round, swung into
action to defeat the Phi Gams, 19-10. Next came the Pi Kappa Phi-S. P. E. game, which ended in a
30-14 victory for the S. P. E’s. After this, the Pi Kappa Alphas put the Phi Delta Thetas out of
the running by a score of 18-12, only to fall before the S. P. E.’s, 11-19. Last Thursday, the Kappa
Sigs trampled the S. A. E.’s by a 17-point margin, the score being 22-5.

(Continued on Page 6, Col. 4)

Wrestlers Meet ’Pack For State Championship

Coach Doc Unger’s Davidson wrestling team will tackle the grapplers of State College Friday night at 7:30 in the local
gym. This meet will attract state-wide interest as the Big Five title rests upon the outcome. Both teams have been
enjoying good seasons and appear to be evenly matched for this clash. Both have defeated Duke and Carolina, but the
Wolfpack holds aDecision over V. P. I., which team defeated the ’Cats. In that meet, Davidson was crippled by the
absence of Captain Charlie Fort. The visitors, according to reports, will present a well-balanced outfit. They have no outstanding stars
but have a capable man in every class. A win for Davidson would bring a Big Five title to the
“hill” for the first time in two years. The 1933 baseball club shared a title that year with Carolina. This
will be the ’Cats’ last important meet of the season except for the encounter with the powerful Appalachian State College
team. The strength of these Mountaineers was revealed last Saturday when they downed Draper “Y,” southern Y. M. C. A.
champions, 26-6.

MEET MARKS OPENS OFFICIAL TRACK SEASON
Loss Of Cochrane, Pratt, Evans, Faison, and McPhail Is Hard Blow
CRACK MILERS TO RUN
Frazier, Byrd, McRae, and Dunaj in Charlotte Games

Early rumbles of activity in trackdom this week heralded the approach of a new athletic season as a few of
Davidson's track stars prepared for the Charlotte Indoor Track Meet, to be held in the Armory, February 25. Official track
season opens March 1.

Earle Frazier, Davidson’s great mile and two-mile runner, will then meet three of the South’s greatest distance runners: Byrd, of
Duke; McRae, of Carolina; and Dunaj, of W. & L. Byrd holds the Duke record for the two-mile run and
was first in the Southern Conference meet last year for that event. Frazier, a junior, holds the state record of
4 minutes, 22 seconds for the mile run and the record of 9 minutes, 43.1 seconds for the two-mile. He
made them both when running against Byrd at last year’s state meet. John Lee will enter the pole vault event,
Audley Gammon the high jump, and A. J. Potter and John Newton will contest in the shot-put. Walter Dickson, the
Centennial speedster, and either Harris Parker, Fritz Byerly, or Johnny Pierce will enter the 50-yard dash. Billy Merchant will breeze
through the 1,000-yard dash.

Several solar plexus blows have been delivered to the Wildcat track squad, besides the loss by graduation of Miller Cochran,
Davidson’s greatest weights man, and Lanier Pratt, hurdler extraordinaire. “Ras” Evans and Mokey Faison, both fast sprinters, failed to return
this year, and Fred McPhail, hurdler and captain of the team, will be out of action due to a recent
appendicitis operation. Opening of the season will find Dick Johnson, John Newton, A. J. Potter, and “Tubby” Hand out to
fill Cochran's shoes, and Walter Dickson, Harris (Continued on Page 6, Col. 5).

Davidson Cagers Have Four Games Scheduled

The Wildcat basketball team will show its claws four times between the 21st and 22nd of this month. The first
game in this series will be against Wake Forest on the courts in Raleigh on Thursday the 21st; the second
and hardest of the series will be played the next night against N. C. State. This game is also staged
for the Capital City. The Wolfpack will meet an inspired Davidson quint which was defeated by the ’Pack by a
margin of only seven points in a game played earlier this season. Returning to their lair, the ’Cats will play
a return game with Wake Forest on Monday night, the 25th. The outcome in both the games with the Baptists
is expected to be in favor of Davidson by a comfortable margin. The following night, Tuesday, the Purple Hurricane will
meet the Davidson cagers on the Wildcats’ floor. All indications seem to show that the Hurricane will return home a
defeated team.

Coach Laird plans to leave here sometime before dinner on the 21st in order that the team may rest before
the Wake Forest game in Raleigh. The team will return to the campus Sunday, so that they may have part
of Sunday and Monday to prepare for the two games to be played here. The reports of Davidson’s chances in
these games leave the opinion that the Wildcats will take three games and have a stiff battle with State. The
team has hopes of winning all four games and if that should be the case it would add many laurels
to the team in view of the fact that N. C. State is reputed to have one of the best
teams in the state.

White Drug

Captain Fort Rejoins Team To Win By Fall; Blackwelder Decides Outcome
MOFFATT WINS BY FALL
Knox Thompson, 126 lb. Wildcat, Wins Time Advantage

Led by Leroy Blackwelder, the Davidson College matmen came from behind in the last match of the contest to down
the Carolina Tar Heel wrestlers by the close score of 16-14. With the score 14 to 13 as the final
match started, Blackwelder, fighting in the unlimited class, engaged Gwynn of Carolina and finally won a time advantage of seven
minutes and forty-nine seconds to give the ’Cats their second victory over a Big Five opponent. Blackwelder has not been
defeated this season in wrestling, meeting some of the pick of Southern Conference grapplers and downing them all in his
usual competent manner. He has shown a remarkable degree of improvement since last year, being unusually strong and very agile.

Captain Charles Fort, who for the past two meets has been absent due to a case of mumps, returned to
the fray and won in traditional form by a fall over his opponent, Ranson of Carolina, in seven minutes and
sixteen seconds. Polk Moffatt of Davidson won the only other fall of the meet, over Darden of Carolina, in four
minutes and twenty-seven seconds. The match with Carolina marked the third contest of this season against college competition and was
held in Chapel Hill Friday night. The Carolina team put up plenty of skill and aggressiveness, but the ’Cats fortunately
picked up enough points in the last two events to complete the kill. The Davidson aggregation entered the contest scheduled
to lose, since the ’Cats lost to V. M. I. while the Tar Heels defeated the Virginians. The return of
Captain Fort added tremendously to the strength of the Unger-coached team, although Luther “Tarzan” Shirey filled his place in laudable
fashion in spite of taking on men above him in the weight classes. (Continued on Page 6, Col. 4).

White Squad Bows In Second Practice Tilt

Completing the third week of the spring practice session, Coaches Newton and McEver put their football squad through a regular
game last Saturday afternoon. The squad was divided as usual into the Red and White teams, and the battle ended
with the score 6-0 in favor of the Reds. The field was muddy and slow, which prevented any very long
runs or passes. For the most part, the ball remained near the center of the field, although both teams threw
away several good scoring opportunities. It was not until the final minutes of the game that Roger Melton, Red end,
got his hands on a long pass from Hogan for the only tally of the entire game. With McLung and
Dick Johnson at the guard positions, the Whites took advantage of their superior line strength to make most of their
gains through the center of the line. Paul Pittman added to their yardage by several long jaunts around end. Dennis
and Hogan, playing their first season on the varsity, did much to add to the Red victory. “Six” Johnston and
Henry Cathey were outstanding in the line for the Red team.

Wildcat Grapplers Win With Small Margin Over Carolina

STAR ATHLETE
JIM MORGAN - END

Jim Morgan, of Albemarle, N. C., a husky end on the 1934 Davidson football aggregation, who has equally distinguished himself
at the center position of the much-improved Wildcat basketeers. He has been a consistent and reliable scorer as pivot-man all
this season.

KITTENS BOW TO DUKE BLUE IMPS
Freshman Cagers Defeat Sharon High School 38-16 Friday Evening

With bad luck still dogging their tracks, the Wildkitten basketeers bowed to the Duke freshmen by a count of 34
to 20 in the local gym last Monday night. The 'Kittens played three games last week, winning one and dropping
two. On a two-day trip, they met both Duke and Carolina freshmen, bowing to both opponents by a sizeable score.
Star scorer for the Duke clash on Tuesday, February 12, was Edwards, flashy forward of the Imps, who ran up
a total of 21 points for his side. Kieswetter led the Davidson scorers with 8 points, the final score being
24-43 in Duke’s favor. The next night on the Carolina court, Boone, Tar Heel forward, piled up 15 points to
lead his team to an overwhelming victory of 40-6 over the ’Kittens. Their first win of the week came on
Friday over Sharon High School on the local court with a count of 38-16. Kieswetter led his team in scoring
with 13 points, closely followed by Barrow with 10. The starting line-up for all of the games was as follows:
Forwards, Barrow and Kieswetter; guards, Reid and Harris; center, Reinhardt. Substitutes were: Iverson, Moyer, Kline, Clark, and Smith. The freshman
quint has a hard schedule ahead during its last few days of playing, having four games this week and a
possible fifth next Monday. Last night they met Concord High. Tomorrow night they face the E. C. T. C. quintet
here; and Saturday night Charlotte High in Charlotte. Tentative plans have been made for a final game with Belmont Abbey
next Monday. (Continued on Page 6, Col. 6).

HOTEL Featuring Kay Kyser and His Orchestra
SUPPER DANCING AND ENTERTAINMENT
Thursday and Saturday 9 P. M. Till-Closing

The management is happy to announce that Kay Kyser and his orchestra will play in the main dining room Thursday
night—Please reserve a table now!

We extend a welcome to all Davidson men for the weekend. CHARLOTTE
Make this your headquarters.
