THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 10, 1935

TRACK TEAM ENGAGES TENNESSEE SATURDAY

In the Field of Sports

WILDCATS DEFEAT CAROLINA NINE

As FELIX Sees 'Em
By LAMONT BROWN

April showers descended upon this section in more ways than one last week with plenty of rain plus a veritable
deluge of celebrities who carried on a busy sports program in spite of the fact that Old Man Sunshine failed
to put in an appearance. A whole army of veteran sportsmen barged into the Charlotte Hotel lobby to cause no
little neck-stretching, while ye Ed. scurried about in a manner reminiscent of the gold rush in an attempt at interviewing.

Connie Mack and his Athletics suffered the first attack. When asked about his team’s chances for the pennant, the 73-year-old
veteran replied that he expected his club to be a strong contender but as to what place the Athletics will
hold down in the league “that’s something I can’t answer.” Connie added that they were passing through from Florida on
the way to big league action. Questioned as to the whereabouts of his son, a former Blue Devil hurler, he
replied that he was “working with the Athletics.” Jimmy Foxx, Handy Andy of the Athletics, warded off autograph seekers long
enough to say that his exhibition in Charlotte was just “an off day.”

George Lott, greatest doubles player in the world, came in for a small share of interviewing, stating that Tilden, Vines,
Nusslein, and himself would leave the next day for Raleigh. The old warhorse, “Big Bill” Tilden, emphatically stated that he
intended to continue his career until he was “bored.” Other luminaries were able to evade Felix, who, receiving word that
war clouds were looming up in the old home town, returned to reconnoiter.

Finding a win over Mich. State and a defeat at the hands of Lenoir-Rhyne on record, Felix entertained some doubt
as to the outcome of the Carolina contest, but two extra innings saw some of the most gratifying ball ever
played anywhere near Richardson Field. Jim Morgan, local King of Swat, continued a record that would do credit to any
man’s team, while Charlie Harris exercised some of the finer points of the game, allowing only 4 hits and striking
out 11 men. Jim Dickson brought in the winning run for the second time this season.

The track team enjoyed a hectic past weekend, leaving here last Friday for Richmond, where after several hours of splashing
around in the university’s own mud, they were awarded a very short end of the score.

(Continued on Page 5, Col. 3)

Gaberdines

A complete and well-balanced assortment of Gaberdines. Styles made according to your particular liking. Easter is almost here and you
will be sorry if you don’t have a Gaberdine.

Ray HARRISON

NETMEN RETURN FROM VACATION TOUR IN SOUTH

Raqueteers Play U. of Florida, Rollins, South Carolina, and Georgia Tech

MATCH RAINED OUT

To Leave Wednesday On Trip Through Virginia

Davidson's varsity tennis team returned last week from a southern trip which started at the beginning of the spring holidays.
The trip was termed a “success” by Manager Garrett. The team played five matches, of which they won three and
lost two.

On Friday, March 29, Davidson met the University of Florida tennis team at Gainesville, which defeated Davidson 6 to 1.
On Saturday, March 30, Davidson met the Rollins College team at Winter Park, Fla. Davidson won this meet 6 to
3. On Monday, April 1, they met the Georgia Tech team in Atlanta. Davidson lost, 0 to 7. The Tech
team was led by Billy Reese, the number one ranking collegiate player in the South. Tuesday, April 2, Davidson met
the Emory University tennis team, whom they defeated 7 to 1. On April 4, Davidson met the University of South
Carolina team, whom Davidson also defeated by a score of 7 to 2. A match was scheduled with the University
of Georgia for Wednesday, April 3, but it was rained out.

The records of the players for the trip are as follows: Lewis won 2 and lost 3; Phifer won 3
and lost 2; Barnett won 2 and lost 3; Elvery won 2 and lost 3; Hornbeck won 3 and lost
2; and Morrow won 2 and lost 2. In the doubles, Barnett and Elvery won 1 and lost 3; Lewis
and Hornbeck won 2 and lost 1; and Phifer and Garrett won 3 and lost 0. A few of the
doubles matches were called on account of darkness and rain.

The match scheduled with Carolina for Saturday, April 6, was rained out. No other date has as yet been set
for the Carolina match here.

Mackorell Is Tendered Pro Football Contract

Johnny Mackorell, Little-All-American quarterback of Davidson College, has been offered a tempting contract with the world professional champion New York
Giant team, it was learned Saturday, April 6. Dr. Harry March, known as the father of professional football, who is
a Giant scout, made a special trip to Davidson to sign the Davidson Dynamo, and, being unsuccessful, left the contract
with Johnny Mackorell.

It is known that Uncle Charlie Moran, famous National League umpire and veteran coach and professional football player, recommended Mackorell
to Dr. March, an old-time friend. Uncle Charlie, some time ago, told a group of friends that Johnny Mackorell was
the type to succeed in big-time pro football and that he possessed the ability to become a star. Johnny is
an all-around player. He is a fine defensive man, and blocks, passes, runs, and kicks well. His weight, around 190
pounds, appealed to the Giant scout who rounded up Ken Strong, Ed Danowski, Harry Newman, Bo Molenda, Dale Burnett, and
many other backfield aces for the New York Giants. Mackorell says that he hasn't given the contract much consideration and,
at the present, he doesn't think he will accept.

Baseball scouts, too, already are looking him over. Herb Pennock and Fred Hunter of the Charlotte Hornets Friday passed an
approving eye over Johnny, who is a third baseman, Pitcher Charlie Harris, and Outfielder Jim Morgan.

STAR FOR

Pictured above is Charlie Harris, righthander, and Captain Jim Morgan, leftfielder, who figured prominently in Davidson's victory over Carolina.

Varsity Tracksters Defeat Furman But Lose To Spiders

Keeping the slate clean thus far in the season, the Wildcat cindermen turned in their second win here at Davidson
Wednesday afternoon with an 82 to 44 win over the Purple Hurricanes of Furman College. The South Carolinians picked up
most of their points in the dashes and the hurdles, while the Wildcats held the field in the distance runs,
the weights, and the jumps. At one particular moment when the score was closest with Davidson 47 and Furman 43,
and when it looked as though the Hurricane was due to pick up more points, Earle Frazier was paged from
the officials’ desk on the field. He was requested to report to the dressing room immediately for service in the
880. Captain Pritchett had been keeping Frazier in reserve due to a cold which has been hampering “the champ” for
nearly a

(Continued on Page 5, Col. 1)

Cat Golfers Lose In Four Contests

Snow, Ross, Cowan, Hamrick, And McClelland Return After Southern Trip

Five Davidson golfers returned Thursday from a week's campaign of the links of South Carolina, Georgia, and Florida. The team
encountered Furman, Georgia Tech, University of Florida, and the College of Charleston. The first match was with Furman at Greenville.
The South Carolinians were in better form than the Wildcats and managed to eke out a101% 4-7% victory. The next
stop was Atlanta, where Georgia Tech, one of the most powerful collegiate golf teams in the country, furnished the opposition.
The Jackets, with their famous combination of Charley Yates and Berrien Moore, proved to be much too strong and copped
a 17-1 verdict. Florida was next met at Gainesville. The boys of the Sunshine State were a quartet of clever
club wielders and were victorious in all six matches. The point-a-match system of scoring was used, making the final count
6-0 in favor of the Floridians. On the return trip to Davidson, the College of Charleston was faced on the
wind-swept links of South Carolina’s famous coast city. Here it was too much Lewis Johnson and Thad Street and the
Maroons won out 13-5. Street and Johnson, both prominent in southern amateur circles, were “right with the card” to defeat
Davidson's first combination. The team returned to school after this match, arriving late Thursday night. The trip was made by
Snow, Charley Ross, Cowan, Hamrick, and Ralph McClelland. Davidson, and Shortstop Irwin of North Carolina, when the two teams met
on the Wildcat diamond.

RCA VICTOR RADIOS, RECORDS, REPAIRS. VAN PATTERSON

Richmond University won a muddy track meet from Davidson April 6, the Spiders coming out on the long end of
an 89 to 37 count. A steady rain which turned the field at Milhiser Stadium into mud slowed down the
runners and shortened the distance in the weight events. Jack Bristow led his teammates in scoring by marking up ten
points. He took two firsts, one in the one hundred-yard dash and another in the two hundred and twenty-yard dash.
The feature of the meet was a twenty-foot broad jump by Captain Jimmy West of the Richmond squad. This was
two feet further than any other leap made during the day. Byerly and Dickson were the only men from the
Davidson team that placed in two events. They each scored four points.

(Continued on Page 5, Col. 5)

Freshmen Golfers Bow To Charlotte
Maples, Dennis, Faison, and Bull Defeated In Opening Encounter

Davidson's lately-formed and little-practiced freshman golf team played its first regular match against the Charlotte High School on the Myers
Park course two weeks ago yesterday, Tuesday, March 26. This was the team’s first experience on grass greens, which partially
accounts for the score of 124½-5½ by which they were beaten. Henson Maples, Davidson's number one man, won from his
opponent, Gordon Eaves, 2-1. Bill Hatcher of Charlotte rallied for the high schoolers to take three points from Caton Dennis.
Yates Faison of Davidson won 1½ points from Charlie Pegran, and Irving Bull further increased the freshman’s total by winning
½ point from Charlie Kelly. Maples and Dennis won ½ point for Davidson by taking ½ point on their low
ball in the foursome play; Faison and Bull added to this one point. A return match with Charlotte High is
scheduled for this week, weather permitting, and tentative arrangements have been made for matches with the Carolina frosh, Salisbury High,
Winston High, and the Hampden-Sidney freshman team. It is possible that the team will enter the Southern Intercollegiate Tournament in
Athens, Ga., the 27th and 28th of this month.

BASEBALL TEAM DOWNS CAROLINA
KITTENS DEFEAT TWO OPPONENTS
Barrow Stars By Taking Four Firsts In Meet With Charlotte High

The Davidson Wildkittens in their last two meets, one with Charlotte High and the other with Richmond freshmen, have decisively
defeated their opponents. In the meet with Charlotte High they defeated Charlotte by a score of 70½ to 46½. Wade
Barrow was the Kittens’ star, piling up four first places: first in the high hurdles, low hurdles, 440-yard run and
high jump, and giving the Wildkittens twenty points. Howser, McCachren, Copeland and Hanes were the most outstanding of the Charlotte
team. Hanes won first place in both the mile run and the 880-yard run. The Davidson Wildkittens defeated the Richmond
freshman track team by a score of 67 2-5 to 49 3-5 on April 6. The Wildkittens, having the best
team they have had for years, showed up well in their last meet. Harrison was high scorer for Davidson frosh
with fourteen points, while Barrow has been the most consistent scorer. Wilburne, Barnes and Tymosko of Richmond were outstanding. Due
to a muddy field, the teams were slowed down considerably. The results of the meet are as follows:

100-yard dash—Bixler, Davidson, and Harrison, Davidson, tied for first; Powell, Richmond, third. Time: 10.9.
220-yard dash—Harrison, Davidson, first; Bixler, Davidson, second; Dooley, Richmond, third. Time: 24.8.
880-yard run—Wilburne, Richmond, first; Spivey, Richmond, second; Pharr, Davidson, third. Time: 2:23.7.
One-mile run—Parcell, Davidson, first; Howe, Richmond, second; Gilks, Davidson, third. Time: 5:11.5.
120 high hurdles—Wicker, Davidson, first; Barrow, Davidson, second; O'Flaherty, Richmond, third. Time: 18.6.
220 low hurdles—Wicker, Davidson, first; Barrow, Davidson, second; Guy, Richmond, third. Time: 29.1.
High jump—Freeman, Davidson, and Barnes, Richmond, tied first; Gardner, Richmond, O'Flaherty, Richmond, Chalmers, Richmond, Barrow, Davidson, and Wicker, Davidson, tied
for third. Height: 5.4.
Broad jump—Harrison, first; Powell, Richmond, O'Flaherty, Richmond, third. 17.11.
Pole vault—Fort, Davidson, first. Stoneburner, Richmond, second; O’Flaherty, Richmond, third. Height: 10.
Shot put—Tymosko, Richmond, first; Freeman, Davidson, second; Kielpinski, Richmond, third. Distance: 48.1½.
Discus—Tymosko, Richmond, first; (Continued on Page 5, Col. 6)

Davidson, second; Distance: Four Out of Five College Men Come To JOHNSON’S Barber Shop

Hanes cuts their shorts to the size the label says. They’re big enough to let you bend and reach without
any slipping or ripping! POPULAR PRICES LONG WEAR SERVICE HANES Shirts, Shorts, Union-Suits for Men and Boys P. H. HANES
KNITTING COMPANY WINSTON-SALEM

Wildcat Batsmen Open Season With Win Over Michigan State BOW TO LENOIR-RHYNE
Harris Lets Carolina Batters Down With Four Hits

In three opening games, the Wildcat batsmen have won two and lost one. The ‘Cats won the first and the
third games against Michigan State and the University of North Carolina, respectively. The one loss was suffered to an inspired
Lenoir-Rhyne team.

Davidson 3; Michigan State 1
The highly-touted Michigan State aggregation met its second consecutive defeat on its tour in the South on Friday afternoon at
the beginning of the holidays. The Wildcats trailed up until the seventh inning, after the Michigan State team had scored
a run in the first inning, then put on the necessary steam in the seventh and the eighth innings to
come in with three runs. Charlie Harris held the Spartans to six hits and struck out ten players. Jim Morgan,
stellar Wildcat outfielder, was responsible for two of the runs by his triple in the seventh, and again by another
triple in the eighth.

Davidson 2; Lenoir-Rhyne 3
In the middle of the holiday season, the Wildcats had one defeat scored on them by a hard fighting, determined
Lenoir team. The first score came as Ravenel, Davidson catcher, pitched one over the second baseman’s head. The Wildcats were
first to score, scoring one run in the first inning.

Davidson 4; North Carolina 3
After two exciting extra innings, the Wildcats managed to put over the one run necessary to win the ball game
against the University of North Carolina Tar Heels. After trailing all the (Continued on Page 5, Col. 4)

TAILORED BY WILSON BROTHERS
SPORT SHIRTS for all outdoor activities
Brand new... the smart Jil-Collar pullover shirt... a Palm Beach favorite... patterned after an exclusive French model. Corduroy rib stitch
of fine cotton yarns. $1.00
IVEY’S CHARLOTTE
