THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 6, 1935

SOUTHERN HERD

Drboobh IN OLD DAVIDSON

Rumor Indicates That “Stonewall Jackson” Taught Math For Short Time

SERVED IN EMERGENCY

His Brother-in-Law Was Professor D. H. Hill

Unverified tradition holds that the famous General of the Southern Confederacy “Stonewall” Jackson for a short time held the math classes of Professor D. H. Hill on the Davidson Campus. This rumor has not been proved but the following facts are known to be true: “Major” Hill was the Professor of Math at Davidson from the spring of 1854 through 1859. At the time that “Major” Hill became a member of the Davidson faculty there was no president and the faculty ruled the student body with an “iron hand.” Hill promoted the demerit system which was in favor with the Trustees. He did not gain favor in the sight of the Davidson Students who called him “Old Major.” Rev. Drury Lacy accepted the seat of the presidency of the College in 1855. From then until 1859 when he became persuaded to resign on the force of impending National Conflict to become Commandant of the Charlotte Military Institute. “Stonewall” Jackson and Major Hill became brothers-in-law when they married daughters of Robert Hall Morrison, once President of Davidson. Jackson and his wife visited in the home of his sister (Continued on Page 8)

Be Well Groomed For Homecoming

NORTON’S BARBER SHOP

Lighting Fixtures Electrical Appliances Radios

M. H. GOODRUM & CO.

Cars for Rent Gulf Gas and Oil

M. P. HENDERSON

Reverend Peter Marshall Concludes Autumn Vespers

Holds Six Regular Services and Two “Bull Sessions” At Social Center

STUDENTS TAKE PART

Pastor’s Enthusiastic Delivery Appeals To Students

On Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday of last week Rev. Peter Marshall of Atlanta, Ga., conducted the annual fall services speaking at the extended chapel periods and at voluntary evening vespers. The students found Mr. Marshall's messages both inspiring and helpful. Drawing from exceedingly varied subjects, he succeeded in presenting an attractive and informative series, and his delivery enhanced the impression of his words. Mr. Marshall has been popular with young people because of his enthusiasm, and last year during a visit to Davidson he was well received on the occasion of two meetings. Last week he spoke six times in the auditorium and appeared before open forum groups in the Social Center. Certain students assisted in leading the services and prayers.

Mr. Marshall made his introductory address on the subject of “Doubting Thomas” and the modern skepticism of today. Like Thomas, we will not believe except we see. Mr. Marshall showed that the truth, spiritual insight, is not gained by anyone without experience and an acceptance and belief in Christ Jesus.

“Believing By Night” was the topic of the Tuesday evening lecture. The various references to Nicodemus in John’s gospel were cited in which John speaks of Nicodemus as the man who came to Jesus by night. Man receives a far better revelation at night after the business and duties of the day are over. The only drawback in Nicodemus’ belief was his reluctance to testify openly. At the death of Jesus, he must have felt chagrined because it was too late. The appeal to stand out for Christ is given to us also as He suffers again for our sins.

The next morning in chapel Mr. Marshall took the passage in John 12 describing the last sermon on the cross. When the words of forgiveness and love were spoken by Christ, the disciples who fled missed the opportunity to receive the benediction of their leader. Mr. Marshall eloquently expressed the scene that took place on Calvary, and he pleaded that all present would consider Jesus as master.

Wednesday night the sermon was based on the open secrets of Christianity, the open secrets that anyone may learn. The knowledge of God, which is an unknown thing to unbelievers, can be understood satisfactorily. The secret of God's love is better known if a person avails himself of the opportunity. The third open secret is that of the cross. It is a mystery that can be solved if man sets out to find the answer. There are many Christians who do not attempt to add to their meaning by taking the step necessary. Man must take advantage of what God is willing to reveal after belief is evidenced. This talk was centered about these three questions in man’s mind: God, His love, and the Cross. The theme resembles the thought on spiritual perception given Tuesday morning. The subject is one to remember, one that will assuredly stick in the minds of the listeners.

On the last morning, Jesus as a great doctor was discussed. Mr. Marshall started with his text, Mark 5:35, on the subject of the Healer who cured a deranged man and a sick woman, and brought life to a child. The words of Jesus, “Be not afraid, only believe,” should be applied to our lives, for we should not fear or doubt Jesus. Thursday evening Mr. Marshall's last service was opened by prayer and singing as usual. The appreciation of the college for his able work during his stay (Continued on Page 8)

WELCOME ALUMNI!

AMERICAN CAFE

BEAT DUKE!

Davidson Theatre

WEDNESDAY, NOV. 6

SHIP CAFE

With Carl Brisson and Arline Judge

THURSDAY AND FRIDAY, NOV. 7-8

THE DARK ANGEL

With Merle Oberon, Fredrick March, and Herbert Marshall

SATURDAY, NOV. 9

HI GAUCHO

With Steffi Duna, John Carroll and Rod La Rouque

MONDAY AND TUESDAY, NOV. 11-12

THE LAST DAYS OF POMPEII

With Basil Rathbone, David Holt and Dorothy Wilson

Volunteer Union Holds Meeting In Charlotte

The Institute of the Student Volunteer Union of this section met in Charlotte on the afternoon and night of Monday, November 4. John McMullen, Bill Bell, Frank Brown, Howard McFadyen, and Archie Torrey represented Davidson at the institute. Other colleges who sent delegates were: Queens-Chicora, Mitchell, Johnson C. Smith (colored), Barbara Scotia (colored). Dr. A. A. McFadyen, medical missionary to China, and Rufus Morrow, traveling secretary of the South-Atlantic region of the Student Volunteer Union, spoke in the afternoon. Mr. Tom Glasgow, of Charlotte, was the speaker at night. Plans were made at the rally to send delegates to the twelfth quadrennial Convention to be held in Indianapolis, December 28 to January 1. John McMullen, who is president of the North Carolina Student Volunteer Union, will conduct similar institutes in Greensboro on Thursday and Friday of this week, and in Raleigh on Saturday and Sunday. Rufus Morrow is an alumnus of Davidson College, graduating in 1934. He led the chapel services at Davidson on Monday morning, November 4.

Dr. Thos Lingle Talks For Clubs

Davidson Professor Speaks On Conditions In Eastern and Central Europe

Dr. T. W. Lingle addressed a joint meeting of Rotarians, Kiwanis and Lions in Florence, S. C., last Thursday, Oct. 31. Dr. Lingle, who is professor of European history, spoke of the economic, political and social situation in eastern and central Europe, basing his talk largely on his own personal experience and the first-hand information which he received from his numerous visits to that continent. This last summer he travelled through the Balkan countries and conversed with several members of the cabinets of those nations, receiving from them valuable ideas. Although Professor Lingle is not a member of any of these brotherhoods, an invitation was extended to him to speak at the meeting. He left Davidson Wednesday, stopping on the journey at Hartsville, S. C., where he visited the Coker estate, famous for its botanical collection.

Among the GREEKS

BETA THETA PI: A feed was given Sunday night by the Phi Alpha Chapter. Brother Sellers attended the Duke-Tennessee game Saturday. Brothers Bob Atwater and Bill Coffin went to their respective homes in Alamance County.

PI KAPPA ALPHA: Brother Bob Lafferty went to his home for the weekend as did Brother “Sky” Cline. Brothers Walt Dickson and Bill Archer visited Dickson's home in Anderson, S. C. The regular feed was given Sunday evening. Brother “Tea Pot” Hill went home.For the weekend, and brought back a chocolate cake. Brothers Bob Anderson and Jim Hodgin spent the weekend in Virginia.

KAPPA ALPHA: John Anderson went to Bluefield, W. Va. for the weekend from the Sigma Chapter to the National Convention which is to be held in Memphis, Tenn., at Christmas. A large number of the members went to Rock Hill, S.C. for the weekend. George Cowan went to Raleigh for the weekend. Tom Downie was elected delegate. The customary feed was given Sunday night.

SIGMA ALPHA EPSILON: Brothers Tom Marchant and Kenneth Fryfogle went to Greenville, S.C. over the weekend. Buddy Newton and Henry Eve went to the latter’s home in Augusta, Georgia. The weekly feed was given Sunday night.

KAPPA SIGMA: Brother Norfleet went to his home in Winston for the weekend. Misses Mary Barton and Elizabeth Hill attended the party given by Dr. and Mrs. G.R. Lepsilonian. George Salem went to Davidson Theatre Saturday night and was present Sunday night. The chapter paper will come out next week. “Salty” Peters and Bill Devyerle went to Bluefield, W.Va. for the Marshall-Emory & Henry football game. Joe Hunter Towles went to Converse, S.C., for the weekend.

PHI GAMMA DELTA: Charlie Baldwin of Knoxville, Tenn., visited the chapter over the weekend to see how his old high school football team was playing. Jack Tillotson went to Washington, D.C. for the Greenbriar Homecoming. A hall has been...

(Continued on Page 8)

Mecklenburg Hi-Y Club Guided By Local YMCA

A meeting of the Mecklenburg Hi-Y Club Sponsors was held last Wednesday at Charlotte in Superintendent Best's office. The purpose of this meeting was to work out the Club program for the coming year and to place all of the Hi-Y clubs of Mecklenburg County, of which there are fourteen, under the general supervision of the Davidson College YMCA. The College YMCA was represented by Marion Bryant and the Davidson Hi-Y Club by Lewis Parker, the Club’s president, and Cyrus Calvin. Mr. A.C. Sheldon, Boy’s Work Director of Charlotte, called the meeting. Archie Shuford, YMCA Boy's Work Head, is in charge of all Boy's Work at Davidson. Bryant, because of his previous experience in Hi-Y work, has been named by Shuford to head the work for the entire county.

J. O. JONES, Inc.
New College Suits Arriving Every Few Days
Lee Tyrolean Hats for the Careful Dresser
All found at J. O. JONES, Inc.

Dr. Gregory Walcott Speaks At Davidson On ‘Philosophy and Common Sense’

Dr. Gregory Walcott, professor of philosophy at Long Island University, delivered a lecture on Philosophy in Chambers Auditorium last Friday night, November 1. Dr. Walcott chose as his subject for the address “Philosophy and Common Sense.” He pointed out that most people do not see any connection between philosophy and common sense. There are, he said, two meanings for common sense. In one way it is taken to mean a sort of sixth coordinating sense, which is a faculty of a normal person. Aristotle thought of it in this manner. On the other hand, it may be taken as a social consciousness, that is, a group where the people all have the same ideas. Dr. Walcott proceeded to explain that the philosophy of one generation becomes the common sense of another. He illustrated this by the idea of evolution, which was considered philosophy a few years ago but is now considered common sense.

Aristotle, one of the first philosophers, mapped out the field of knowledge into various sciences. Now, philosophy loses one phase after another which will no longer be called philosophy but will be called a science itself. There has lately arisen a question of what is left in philosophy since so many of its fields have become separate sciences. Dr. Walcott pointed out the three main problems that are left in philosophy. These are knowledge, being, and value. Philosophers, he said, have two ways of dealing with philosophy. The first is by comprehensiveness and the second is to begin from the angle of the problems that philosophy has to solve.

Taking up the first problem, knowledge, Dr. Walcott stated that there now exist three main sets of theories as to what knowledge really is. The first is called rationalism, which means to get knowledge by use of the mind. The second, empiricism, means that knowledge comes from experience. The third, criticism, means to take stock of something. Under the head of empiricism, the speaker brought out three sub-heads. The first of these was crude empiricism in which an object in the mind is thought of as a copy of the thing in the real world. The second of these sub-heads was reflective empiricism, where the idea was brought out that the things in the...

(Continued on Page 8)

Chubby King And Band Make Debut At Hotel

Chubby King and his melodious Orchestra once more return to the Davidson Hotel much to the delight of the Davidson Student Body. They made their debut Monday night at six-thirty o'clock. The Band consisted of: Rex Beach, Trumpet; ‘Johnny’ Christman, third Saxophone; Tony Crisman, Trumpet; “Billy” Crooks, Drums; Jack Hielman, Tenor Saxophone; Broston Kenny, Pianist; Edwin Wooten, first Saxophone; and Dick Wright, Trombone.

Why do so many people stop and listen and then venture into the Davidson Hotel? Don’t you know that Chubby King and his rhythmical band have returned to grace the Davidson Campus with sweet music and waft their rumbas, hot-chas, waltzes, and Tiger-Rag across the Quadwrangle? Yes, Sir; they are back at last and they have several new arrangements and a new novelty number, with a bigger and better band.

Since 1799 thousands of people, after years of suffering from stomach troubles of all types, such as constipation, indigestion, gas, and sour stomach which are the basic factors of such maladies as high blood pressure, rheumatism, periodic headaches, pimples on face and body, pains in the back, liver, kidney and bladder disorder, exhaustion, loss of sleep and appetite. Those sufferers have not used any man-made injurious chemicals or drugs of any kind; they have only used a remedy made by Nature. This marvelous product grows on the highest mountain peaks, where it absorbs all the healing elements and vitamins from the sun to aid humanity in distress. It is composed of 19 kinds of natural leaves, seeds, berries and flowers scientifically and proportionately mixed and is known as LION CROSS HERB TEA. LION CROSS HERB TEA tastes delicious, acts wonderfully upon your system, and is safe even for children. Prepare it fresh like any ordinary tea and drink a glassful once a day, hot or cold. A one dollar treatment accomplishes WONDERS; makes you look and feel like new born. If you are not as yet familiar with the beneficial effects of this natural remedy LION CROSS HERB TEA, try it at once and convince yourself. If not satisfactory, money refunded to you. Try it and convince yourself with our money-back guarantee.

In order to avoid mistakes in getting the genuine LION CROSS HERB TEA, please fill out the attached coupon.

NAME ...
Lio-Pharmacy, Dept. 1180
Second Ave., N.Y. City, N.Y.
Gentlemen: Enclosed find $............... for which please send me................ treatments of the famous LION CROSS HERB TEA.