THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 6, 1935

BROWN IS HEARD BY LOCAL GROUP

Dr. C. K. Brown Addresses Eumenean Literary Society At Regular Meeting

Dr. C. K. Brown, in speaking before the members of the Eumenean Literary Society last Tuesday night, said that the
reason literary societies were losing out today was that their members had no common interests to discuss. Dr. Brown said
that he regretted this waning interest in the Eumenean and Philanthropic societies, and he attributed it to the attitude of
students today, who take no interest in subjects which formerly were discussed in the halls. “We are no longer well
informed on political questions,” he said, “and we look on politics not as a career to be planned for, but
rather to be avoided. Until we change this view, and a governing class with higher ideals arises, there will be
no demand for great leaders, who can sway and control the masses. When such a need arises then interest in
literary societies will revive, because they offer training in those requirements which would be needed.”

The regular order of business was transacted, and then the meeting was concluded with a feed and social hour. Dr.
Brown's invitation to speak before the Eumenean Society is a part of a program to revive interest in the principles
for which the literary societies at Davidson stand. In the future, other members of the faculty will probably be asked
to address the hall.

Davidson Scout Troop Begins Reorganization

The Davidson Scout Troop has recently started to reorganize under the leadership of Dick Vowles, Harman Woodward, and Gordon Cleveland.
This troop has been disbanded since last May when they lost their meeting place, a small building in the high
school yard. The troop now has this meeting place again and is ready to get back to work. There are
about fifteen boys in the troop at present; they will welcome any boys over twelve years old who are interested
in this work. This troop was under the leadership of Ed Hodge last year and undertook several “Good Turns” to
the community. Among other things, they set out 1,500 trees on the golf course and collected over 300 pieces of
cloth for the Red Cross.

Bids Are Extended To Eight Students

(Continued from Page 1)

He is a member of the varsity tennis team and the D Club. He is an S. P. E., as
is also R. M. Porter, from Waycross, Ga. Porter is a member of Scabbard and Blade, and senior manager of
wrestling. C. S. McCall, who is from Bennettsville, S. C., is a member of S. P. E., and of Gamma
Sigma Epsilon. Another S. P. E. is R. L. Orr from Byhalia, Miss. He is also a baseball manager. C.
B. Ross, from Polkton, is a member of Eta Sigma Phi, and a member of the varsity basketball team, and
of the D Club. G. L. Gullette, a Phi Gamma Delta, is from Blacksburg, Va., is a member of the
International Relations Club, of Eta Sigma Phi, Delta Phi Alpha, Delta Pi Kappa, Le Cercle Francais, and is secretary-treasurer of
the D Club.

Dr. P. H. Gwynn, Jr., gave his report as delegate to the Triennial Conference of Phi Beta Kappa, which met
in Cincinnati, Ohio, in September. Dr. Gwynn said that four colleges were recommended for new chapters of Phi Beta Kappa.
Only three were selected, however. They were Florida State College for Women at Tallahassee, University of Utah, and Connecticut State
College for Women at New London. The Gamma Chapter has received a letter from Dr. W. A. Shimer, secretary of
the National Chapter, saying that he would visit Davidson on May 2. He expresses a desire to become better acquainted
with the members of the local chapter and with Davidson College. The president of the chapter will appoint a committee
of three to plan for his entertainment.

The present officers of the local chapter are: Prof. A. Currie, president; Mr. F. L. Jackson, vice-president, and Dr. P.
H. Gwynn, Jr., secretary-treasurer. The Gamma Chapter of Phi Beta Kappa was established at Davidson eleven years ago. Davidson, with
the University of North Carolina and Duke University, are the only institutions in the state possessing chapters of the nationally-known
fraternity. This is a great compliment to the scholastic rating of the college. Davidson is the smallest of the aforementioned
schools and has one of the highest scholastic ratings in the South. Twenty-four members of the Davidson faculty are members
of Phi Beta Kappa.

Ministerial Group Sends Deputation

Alexander Leads Services Charlotte Church; Salango Renders Solo

The last meeting of the Ministerial Band was held on Sunday, February 24, in the afternoon. Frank Pharr made a
short talk on “Love.” Then, after a short business discussion, the group was dismissed with a prayer. That evening at
6:30 in the Caldwell Memorial Church of Charlotte, a deputation from the group gave a program at the meeting of
the Young People’s League. The program was led by Jack Alexander. After the scripture, which was read by the leader,
James Salango gave a solo. Two talks were given, one by Murphy Smith, in which he discussed the physical side
of love, showing its development, growth, and likeness to Christ's, and the other, by Monroe Wicker, who told his listeners
about the love of God and its superiority over all others. The whole program carried out the thought of “Love.”

The Ministerial Band has been asked to take charge of the Young People’s League of the Davidson Presbyterian Church, and
to try to get this League to functioning smoothly again. In view of this fact, the Band urges those who
are interested in this work to be present at every meeting. It meets each Sunday evening at 7 o'clock in
the church.

NEW KIND OF WAR LEAGUE

Iowa City, Ia—A “League for the Promotion of War” has been organized at the University of Iowa. Founded by a
group of students who believe that dictatorship is the only solution for the complex problems of modern civilization, the new
club is opposed to another group here which is advocating world peace. Compulsory military training for all male citizens in
the United States was one of the resolutions passed at the first meeting of the organization. In addition, if this
club hasits way, all college students, both men and women, would be required to take four years of military study.
The group leaders plan to invite Huey P. Long to become its honorary leader.

’Cat Grapplers End Season With Win
(Continued from Page 1, Col. 4)

A.S.T.C. had a bare advantage of 1:20 over Thompson between him and his title.

Summary:
118 pounds—Patterson, A.S.T.C., decision over Polk Moffett, Davidson, time advantage of 7:22.
126 pounds—Captain Blalock, A.S.T.C., decision over Knox Thompson, Davidson, time advantage of 1:20.
135 pounds—Charlie Parker, Davidson, decision over Finley Moore, A.S.T.C., time advantage of 1:35.
145 pounds—Frank Owen, Davidson, decision over Frank Moore, A.S.T.C., time advantage of 4:10.
155 pounds—Shipman, A.S.T.C., won by fall over Lawrence Quarterman, Davidson, after one minute of extra period.
165 pounds—Leroy Blackwelder, Davidson, decision over Claude Farthing, A.S.T.C., time advantage of 7:45.
175 pounds—Charlie Fort, Davidson, won decision over Cline Farthing, A.S.T.C., time advantage of 9:00.
Unlimited—Jim Hodgin, Davidson, won by fall over Hobbs, A.S.T.C., in 1:28.

Score: Davidson 17, A.S.T.C. 11.
Referee: Simeon (High Point College).

Symphony Band Leaves On Tour
(Continued from Page 1, Col. 4)

The members of the band are traveling in a Queen City bus, and their instruments are being carried by the
Lenoir High School band truck, furnished through the courtesy of Capt. James C. Harper, director of the Lenoir Band.

Symphonic Band Presents Concert
(Continued from Page 5)

In his words, he presented the need the band feels for new and flashy uniforms, urging those who would to
drop a contribution in the boxes at the rear of the platform before leaving. Following Dr. Gwynn’s short talk, the
band left the stage, and most of the audience went outside for a breath of air, only to be called
back to their seats after ten minutes by a loud blast of the trumpet.

The first number on the second half of the program was “Hungarian Fantasy,” featuring the skillful fingers of Mrs. Louise
Nelson Pfohl, a pianist of extraordinary ability. With her every move characterized by grace, Mrs. Pfohl played through the difficult
piece (it occupied almost twenty minutes), with no reference to music, the band providing a background for her music. This
Liszt composition was played from manuscript, the arrangement for piano and band, a most unusual combination, having been made by
the director of the University of Michigan Band, of which Pfohl was once a member. So loudly did her audience
acclaim Mrs. Pfohl’s artistry that she was called from the wings twice for bows.

The next piece on the program was Ravel's “Bolero,” already made popular on this campus by the band. At its
conclusion, the ever-familiar and ever-popular strains of “O Davidson” filled the auditorium, bringing a loyal audience at once to its
feet. This closed the first formal concert by the band on the campus this year, and a well-pleased body of
listeners filed from the building.

“QUICK RELIEF for stuffy head”
“Boy! I can breathe now!”
VICKS VA-TRO-NOL for Nose & Throat
JUST A FEW DROPS UP EACH NOSTRIL
two sizes, 30¢... 50¢
HELPS PREVENT MANY COLDS

Sigma Delta Pi Plans To Broadcast Program

Sigma Delta Pi, the Spanish fraternity, has requested that the broadcasting committee put them in charge of the radio program
on or as near April 12 as possible. They want the program on this date in order that they can
celebrate Pan-American Day, which comes on April 14.

The conductor, Professor Donald Pfohl, and those making a tour of the state are: Richard Mattox, Harris Bradley, Joy Martin,
Frank Poe, Oris Rolt, Bronston Kenney, Wiley Bradley, Joe Bailey, William Laws, Marion Bryant, Maurice Armitage, Marshall Sanford, Richard Vowles,
James Chrisman, F. Renfrow, J.A.C. Robinson, E.C. Wooten, H.H. Thompson, A.M. Cunningham, Robert Leonard, Hector McGeachy, G.C. Currie, A.P. Hassel,
R.N. Baker, Robert Wilson, Hubert Morris, Charleton Storey, Blakely Young, R.N. Baker, Robert Wilson, Julian Helms, Parker, E.C. Johnson, Richard
Wright, Russell Kerr, Frank Tucker, R.R. Purdy, Howard King, B.B. Crooks, Sam Ryburn, Gilbert Palmer, and Willis Jones.

Kittens Close Season With Win Over Abbey

The freshman basketball team brought their season to a close last week with a victory over the Belmont Abbey quintet,
highly touted as the junior college champions of the state, bringing the total number of games won during the season
to eight out of seventeen. The total number of points rolled up by the ’Kittens during the season was 418.
Bill Keisewetter accounted for 118 as high scorer. He was closely followed by Capt. Wade Barrow, who scored 110 points.
Rhinehardt came next with 54 points; Harris fourth with 49 points, and Reid fifth with 44 points.

The Wildkittens got off to a slow start. However, as the season progressed, they improved steadily until during the last
few weeks their record showed a more or less steady string of victories over Woodberry Forest, Darlington, Fishbourne, Eastern Carolina
Teachers College, Belmont, and other strong foes.

THE GAY DAVIDSON THEATRE

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 6
With Ginger Rogers, Fred Astaire and Alice Brady

THURSDAY, MARCH 7
THE RIGHT TO LIVE
With Colin Clive, Josephine Hutchinson and George Brent

FRIDAY, MARCH 8
ONE MORE SPRING
With Warner Baxter and Janet Gaynor

SATURDAY, MARCH 9
KENTUCKY KERNELS
With Wheeler and Woolsey

MONDAY AND TUESDAY, MARCH 11 AND 12
CLIVE OF INDIA
With Ronald Colman and Loretta Young

DIVORCEE

Take a cigarette... You know I like that cigarette... I like the way it tastes... there's plenty of taste there.
Chesterfield is mild, not strong... and that’s another thing I like in a cigarette. What’s more, They Satisfy... and that’s
what I like in a cigarette. I get a lot of pleasure out of Chesterfield... you know I like that
cigarette.

MONDAY WEDNESDAY SATURDAY
LUCREZIA BORI LILY PONS RICHARD BONELLI
KOSTELANETZ ORCHESTRA AND CHORUS
9 P.M. (E.S.T.) — COLUMBIA NETWORK

© 1935, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.
