STUDENT BODY ELECTIONS GET UNDER WAY

JUNIOR SPEAKING ISSUE

The Davidsonian

ALENODA LUX UB! ORTA ‘LIBERTAS

JUNIOR CLASS ENTERTAINS AT DANCE SET

Vol. XXII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., MARCH 13, 1935 No. 20

DEBATING TEAM VICTORIOUS ON SOUTHERN TOUR

Sugg And Stutts Meet Georgia Tech, Emory, Miami, And Charleston Debating Teams

SUPPORT AFFIRMATIVE

James Salango And Tyler Port Leave Tomorrow On Western Tour

With the return of the team from the Sunny South last Saturday night, Davidson found itself ranking high in another
field—debating. Coach C. K. Brown's proteges displayed exceptional ability in the art of oratory, making an excellent showing at each
of their four debates in an eleven-day trip which began February 27.

The Davidson team, composed of Harold Sugg, Albert Stutts, and Alternate Warner DuBose argued the affirmative side of the query:
“Resolved, That the Nations Should Agree to Prevent the International Shipment of Arms and Munitions.” Their first encounter was with
the College of Charleston on Thursday night, February 28. This was the most disappointing of all the contests due to
an unfavorable decision by an audience composed mainly of members of the classes of the debating professor, many of whom
were so unfortunate as to hear only the last rebuttal speeches. Even though the local debaters lost, the Charleston team
was so impressed with Davidson speeches that they wanted to copy notes, and points, as a help toward their own
debating season.

The next contest, with the University of Miami, took place on Tuesday afternoon, March 5, at Miami. The debate, held
in the amphitheatre of the public park, was a non-decision affair, but the Davidson team “won decisively” in the opinion
of the audience and debaters.

Turning north a few days later, Stutts and Sugg met a team from Emory University on March 7 in the
downtown Y. M. C. A. in Atlanta. They won a unanimous audience decision over the Emory team and report themselves
as greatly impressed with the splendid Emory debating organization.

The next night the Davidsonians had a real test of their strength against debaters from Georgia Tech. The debate, another
non-decision, was adjudged the best and closest of the trip by members of the team. The Tech debaters, well-versed in
their subject, were quick to meet all arguments advanced by the Davidson team and the debate was considered a draw
by most of the spectators. The stability of Stutt’s arguments, mixed with the fiery humor of Sugg’s, formed a winning
combination. Sugg’s wit, especially his name-calling of the munitions makers, was appreciated by the audiences and debaters alike.

The next debating trip begins tomorrow, March 14, when Tyler Port and James Salango leave for Centre, Sewanee and points
west on a ten-day journey.

Celebrate Annual Barium Day Mar. 2

Youngsters Throng Davidson Campus And Give Exhibition Football Game

Davidson’s second annual Barium Springs Day saw a fair-sized crowd attending the intrasquad game last Saturday afternoon. The idea of
having a Barium Springs Day was originated last year, and was considered worthy of carrying on in the future so
that the orphanage will probably continue to claim one day on the school calendar as its own.

Davidson College feels an especial interest in the Presbyterian Home near Statesville, because of its past record for sending to
the campus outstanding athletes and campus leaders. There are at present at least ten Barium men here, nine of whom
are football players and five are participating in more than one sport.

Uncle Joe Johnston, the head of Barium Springs Orphanage, brought down a big crowd of his youngsters to celebrate their
day on the campus. The interest which Uncle Joe and the boys and girls from Barium show in Davidson’s team
each year make a good many (Continued on Page 6, Col. 5)

Date Fixed For ROTC Inspection At Davidson

The date set for the inspection of the ROTC unit at Davidson is April 25 and 26. The inspection will
be divided into two parts, the theoretical inspection, and the actual inspection. On the twenty-fifth and morning of the twenty-sixth
will be the theoretical inspection, classroom, headquarters, etc. and the afternoon of the twenty-sixth will be devoted to inspection of
the battalion. This inspection will consist of the drill, appearance of the battalion including physical appearance of the individual and
condition of uniform as well as contest exercises.

The War Department has not yet advised local headquarters as to who the inspector will be. Colonel Little who has
inspected the unit for the last two years has been transferred from Raleigh to Fort Benning.

DRAMATISTS TO OFFER MYSTERY

Red And Black Masquers Present ‘Three Taps At Twelve’ On Friday

The Red and Black Masquers will offer their second dramatic presentation of this year on Friday evening, March 22. The
club, an honorary society for achievement in dramatic art, will present a three-act mystery melodrama, entitled Three Taps at Twelve.

The cast of the play, under the direction of Edward Doniggan, includes some new talent as well as others who
are remembered for their performances in former productions. The cast is as follows: The Ingenue—Miss Lucie Currie; The Juvenile Lead—Field
Horine; The Dope Addict—Treadway Purnell; The Uncle—Richard Hillier; Mrs. Gage—Miss Letitia Currie; Her Husband—Joe Dees; “Catfish”—A. C. Cline; Mrs. Baker—Miss
Steele; Dr. Hull—P. Y. Harlan.

Professor Erwin, Bill Pierce, Dunlap Covington and Dave Herring are in charge of the renovation of scenery for this play.
The play is an exciting murder mystery filled with many anxious moments. Mr. Jamison Edwards, a cryptic old millionaire, invites
five of his most bitter enemies to a dinner party at his palatial home on the coast of Lake Michigan,
in order to give them all an opportunity to seek revenge. Jamison suggests a playful game called Murder, wherein one
of the guests present is ruthlessly murdered. After an intriguing line of events, the nephew of Edwards, a young college
graduate, determines the identity of the guilty person from a few shreds of collected evidence.

The play, which has been in process of production for over a month, plus the possibility that “Chubby” King’s Hotel
Davidson Orchestra will be procured to play during the intermissions, should provide an evening of excellent entertainment. Special attention is
called to the fact that, for the first time in a number of years, there will be no admission charge.
There will, however, be a free-will offering taken for those who wish to contribute toward the necessary expenses incurred in
producing the play.

Deputation To Conduct Services Here Sunday

A deputation from Columbia Theological Seminary of Decatur, Ga., will visit Davidson next Sunday to conduct services on the campus.
Columbia Seminary customarily sends deputations to Davidson every year for this purpose.

Dr. P. H. Carmichael, professor of Bible and Religious Education, will be the guest speaker at the church services. He
will preach at both morning and night services. Sunday afternoon L. B. Colquitt will speak to the ministerial students and
discuss ministerial problems with them.

John R. Howard, class of ‘32, will lead the vesper service. This is Howard’s second deputation to Davidson since he
enrolled at Columbia, having talked at vesper services last year. Howard was an outstanding student during his days at Davidson.
He was a member of Omicron Delta Kappa and Phi Beta Kappa in addition to his many other campus honors.

DEES CHOSEN AS 1935 VARSITY CHEERLEADER

Student Body President And Officers Nominated In Chapel Yesterday

As a result of the Student Body voting held Tuesday, Joe Dees of Greensboro, N. C., was chosen for the
position of varsity cheerleader for the coming year. Dees was elected over Scotty McLeod of Brevard, N. C., in the
elections which were held in the auditorium at chapel period.

At the same time during the period, four men from the rising senior class were nominated by the Student Council
Recommendations Committee to serve as candidates for president of the Student Body. Nominations from the floor increased this number to
a total of six men, who are as follows: Lamont Brown, Carleton Chapman, Harvey Glass, Treadway Purnell, Cole Windham, and
Jake Morrow. Henry Cathey’s name was withdrawn by request.

For vice-president, the council nominated four members of the rising junior class, while three other nominations from the floor swelled
this number to a total of seven candidates. These men are: Wade Boggs, Jack Branch, Carl Carlson, Kenneth Scott, Jim
Morton, Tom Corbin, and Wilbur Edwards.

From the rising sophomore class, three men were recommended by the council committee and three from the floor to serve
as candidates for the office of secretary-treasurer. These men are: Joe Alderman, Wade Barrow, Bill Kiesewetter, Bill Rader, Boody Arrowsmith,
and Bill Crooks. The majority of these men were nominated by the Student Council Nominations Committee as provided for in
the Constitution of Davidson College.

Following the Student Body elections, officers of the Y. M. C. A., Publications, Athletic Council, and Ministerial Band will be
chosen.

Dees will serve in the capacity of cheerleader during this year's baseball season and throughout the fall and winter program
next year. During the rest of this year he will have as assistants the men in the sophomore class who
come out for cheerleader. Then, after the first football game next year, Dees will hold an election to decide who
will be his assistants during the coming school year.

HONOR ROLL OF FORTY-TWO MEN LED BY SENIOR

Registrar Releases List Of Students Averaging A For First Semester

FRESHMEN RANK SECOND

Juniors Third And Sophomores Fourth To Complete Group

The list of students who made the honor roll for the first semester of the 1934-1935 session has been released
from the office of Mr. F. W. Hengeveld, registrar. To qualify for a place on the honor roll a student
must have an average for the entire semester of three or more. An average of three in the present grading
system is equivalent to an average of A in the system which is used for making out reports.

The senior class led the school by a good margin in the number of men making the honor roll with
a total of sixteen men. The freshman class ranked second with eleven students, including co-eds. The junior class was third
with eight men, and the sophomore class fourth with seven men.

The honor roll as published by the registrar came as follows. The names of the students are arranged alphabetically by
classes, without regard for the respective averages.

Senior class: M. W. Alderman, W. M. Bogart, R. T. Coit, C. A. Coleman, J. M. Douglas, D. B. Elvery,
G. L. Gullette, C. S. McCall, T. D. Miller, W. G. Neil, R. Ort, J. M. Powell, W. B. Ravenel,
A. B. Rhodes, K. D. Weeks, and G. R. Wood.

Junior class: M. J. Barnett, C. B. Chapman, J. W. Hassell, A. A. Kuhn, W. A. Merchant, J. H. Ross,
F. M. Toole, and J. M. Walker.

Sophomore class: R. S. Bigham, J. E. Branch, F.A. Brown, R. W. Patterson, G. B. Ross, K. M. Scott, and
J. C. Winn. Freshman class: A. R. Cates, Goudylock Erwin, W. D. Herring, H. N. Hill, Dorothy Johnston, Blanche Knox,
C. A. McKnight, J. H. Reinhardt, T. W. Street, R. B. Vowles, and W. M. Wicker.

Dr. Harding Delivers Lecture On “Other Worlds Than Ours”
Speaker Displays Illustrations And Pictures In Connection With Talk

Dr. A. M. Harding, professor of astronomy and mathematics in the University of Arkansas, gave an illustrated lecture in the
auditorium of Chambers Building at 7:30 last Monday evening. Taking as his subject, “Worlds Other Than Ours,” Dr. Harding opened
his talk with a discussion of the distances between the bodies of our solar system. He first directed the attention
of his audience to the fact that the sun is a distance of 93,000,000 miles away from the earth. A
striking illustration of the magnitude of this distance was the remark that: “If an express train had left the sun
on July 4, 1776, and continued at top speed throughout the intervening period, it would still be far from the
earth!” On the other hand, it would take an airplane traveling 200 miles per hour just fifty-three years to traverse
that distance.

Next, he took up the diameters of the various planets and compared our solar system to a vast complex machine,
with the sun at its center, each planet moving in its own unvarying orbit. Due to their differing speeds, paths,
and diameters, each planet has a different year—Mercury, the shortest, about eighty-eight of our own days; Neptune, the longest, sixty-seven
hundred and five days. For instance: Neptune was discovered in 1846. A child born on Neptune at that time would
now be less than six months old. The planets vary in their distance from the earth. Neptune is so remote
that it would take a radio message four hours to reach it. On the other hand, the moon is only
238,000 miles off and a mere 2,000 miles in diameter. Because the moon shines with reflected light, it has various
phases. If it received direct sunlight, it would always appear full. Then, too, the motion of (Continued on Page 6,
Col. 2)

Debaters Start Soon On Trip Thru West
Tyler Port and Jimmie Salango, varsity debaters, will leave for nearby western states on March 14, to debate at three
colleges. The question to be debated is, Resolved: That the nations should agree to prevent international shipment of arms and
munitions. This is the same question as was debated by the members of the team who made the southern trip.
The Davidson team will take the affirmative side. The schedule is as follows: Sewanee, Friday, March 15; Centre, Tuesday, March
19; and University of Kentucky, Wednesday, March 20. The team will return to the campus on Saturday, March 23. Jimmie
Salango is a junior transfer student from Davis-Elkins this year and Tyler Port is a member of the sophomore class.
This trip has been a regular occurrence for the past few years. Bob Smith and Al Stutz made the trip
last year.

Yow! Gag Contest Winner Not Chosen
Approximately Eighty Jokes Are Submitted By Student Body

Announcement of the winner of the Yow! best campus gag contest has been delayed because of the indisposition of Editor
Lorenzo McPhail and the entire managerial staff. It is rumored that the 80 or more jokes submitted caused them to
laugh themselves to death. One carton of Lifesavers will be given to the winner as soon as the judges reach
the condition necessary to handle the judging. The winning joke will be placed in an especially censored section along with
the runner-ups. It is to be hoped that the selections will be made by the end of the week.

COMING
Rising Juniors Assume Editorial Managership

In keeping with the spirit of the week, this issue of “The Davidsonian” is dedicated to the Junior Class. Junior
managing editors, after a season of labor, are being displaced by youthful Sophomores who are gaining experience. There will be
two or three more issues under the present regime during which the Sophomores will take turns at various managerial duties
in putting out the paper. This will aid in demonstrating their ability before the choice of managing editors for the
next year is made. Sophomores and their various duties are shown below. They will be alternated each week: Assignment Editors:
Kenneth Fryfogle and Harold Sugg. First Page: Howell Overton and Daymond Turner. Third Page: Bob Lafferty and Jim Morton. Sports
Page: Jack Branch and Harry Kuykendall. Fifth Page: R. B. Stewart and John Howell. Sixth Page: Biscoe and Ralph McClellan.

MILLER SPEAKS AT “Y” VESPER
Raleigh Pastor Chooses Stewardship As Subject For Y Vesper Talk

Rev. P. D. Miller, D.D., pastor of the First Presbyterian Church in Raleigh, was the speaker at the Y vesper
service last Sunday evening, March 10. Dr. Miller read as the scripture lesson Matthew 25:14-29, and took as his text
1 Corinthians 4:2, “It is required in stewards, that a man be found faithful.” He said the term “steward” is
synonymous with the familiar word “trustee.” He pointed out that each of us is a trustee of a number of
things. We are trustees, stated Dr. Miller, of life itself. Life does not really belong to us, as we are
so prone to think, but was entrusted to us by God for His use. When we fail to do as
God commands us, we fail in our responsibilities as stewards of life. We are trustees, in a sense, of Davidson.
The honor and reputation of Davidson and of everyone that has entered its halls are in the hands of the
present student body. By our actions, we cast either glory or shame upon the name of Davidson College. We are
trustees of our parents’ names. People judge not only us, but also our parents, by the way we conduct ourselves.
It is within our power to bring either shame or honor upon our fathers’ names. We are trustees of the
future. We are not accountable for the past, but the fate of future generations is in our hands. We are
also the trustees of the name and honor of Jesus Christ. The service began with an organ prelude played by
Kenneth Scott. Following the singing of a hymn, Tom Sutton, who was in charge of the service, called upon Murphy
Smith for prayer. Sutton then read the twenty-third Psalm. Following the singing of another hymn, Harris Bradley gave a clarinet
solo, Berceuse from Godard's Jocelyn, accompanied at the organ by R. R. Purdy. At the close of Dr. Miller's talk,
Mr. Warren Babcock gave a ’cello solo, Ye Who Have Yearned Alone by Tchaikovsky, accompanied at the piano by Kenneth
Scott. Dr. Miller pronounced the benediction.

Professor A. M. Dobie To Address Students
Prof. A. M. Dobie, dean of the law school at the University of Virginia, will deliver an address to the
student body and faculty at the regular chapel hour on the morning of Tuesday, March 19, choosing as his subject,
“Law and Language.” Professor Dobie is one of the most distinguished law professors in the South and is considered to
be an unusually attractive speaker.

JUNIOR DANCES TO BE ATTRACTION OF WEEK-END
Beauty Contest Ballot Will Be Sponsored At Intermission Of Both Dances
TO OFFER NOVELTIES
Allsbrook’s Orchestra Makes First Appearance Here

Carrying out one of the oldest of Davidson's traditions, the class of '36 will present the annual Junior dance set,
featuring the music of Bill Allsbrook’s orchestra, in the Charlotte Armory-Auditorium on March 15 and 16. In honor of the
approaching spring season, the Armory will be decorated with streamers of green and white, and, as usual at Junior Speaking
dances, an abundance of confetti will add to the merriment of the dancers. Decorations for the occasion are in charge
of a committee under the leadership of “Geddie” Munroe. Allsbrook’s orchestra, making its first appearance at a Davidson dance, comes
well recommended from an engagement at the O. Henry Hotel in Greensboro. Davidson students who have heard it in other
cities are enthusiastic in its praise. Woody Caligan, formerly with Reeves Pope and his Southernaires at Davidson, writes all the
arrangements for the band. Added features in the line of music are a section of seven violins, which promises an
unusual type of dance music, and whose feature vocalist is being mysteriously kept a secret. As an added attraction for
the young ladies present, the dance committee has planned a beauty contest. Votes for the most beautiful girl attending the
dances will be cast throughout the set until intermission Saturday night, when the ballots will be tabulated and the winner
announced. Arrangements are also being made for a figure at the formal dance Friday night.

Junior Speaking Sponsors have been chosen as follows: Misses Eleanor Hayes, Johnny Walker, Georgie Underwood, of Charlotte; Hashagen and Anita
Smith, of Gastonia; Miss Nancy Lambert, of Rock Hill, S. C.; Miss Mathilda Kyser, of Talladega, Ala.; Miss Virginia Hardin,
of High Point; Miss Elinor Edenton, of Sweet Briar College. The following have been invited to act as chaperones for
the occasion: Mr. and Mrs. W. K. Snow, of High Point; Dr. and Mrs. Oren Moore, Dr. and Mrs. L.
D. McPhail, Mr. and Mrs. Cameron Morrison, Mr. and Mrs. J. C. Crowell, Mr. and Mrs. Douglas Kincaid, Dr. and
Mrs. R. A. Dunn, Mr. and Mrs. M. L. Cannon, Mrs. Margaret Kelly Abernathy, Mr. and Mrs. Hugh Query, Mr.
and Mrs. Fred Hashagen; Mr. and Mrs. Charles L. Oakey, Dr. and Mrs. Addison Brenizer, Dr. and Mrs. H. W.
McKay, and Mr. and Mrs. J. R. Cherry, all of Charlotte; Mr. and Mrs. S. A. Robinson, Mr. and Mrs.
Cole Windham, Mr. and Mrs. W. Spencer, and Mr. and Mrs. C. I. Loftin, of Gastonia.

Founders Day To Be Held April 9
Cameron Morrison Will Make Principal Address On Davidson College

The second annual Founder's Day program, commemorating the ninety-eighth anniversary of the founding of Davidson College, will be held here
on April 9. Cameron Morrison, former governor of North Carolina and United States senator, will make the principal address at
11 o'clock Tuesday morning. Mr. Morrison will speak on “Davidson College, Its Past, Present, and Future.” An additional feature of
the program will be an address by William R. Perkins of New York, confidential adviser to the late James B.
Duke. The college will be host to the Duke trustees and to other visitors at a luncheon at 1 o'clock.
Immediately after lunch, a motion picture on the work of the Duke Endowment will be shown at the local theatre.
As a tribute to the work of James B. Duke, a portrait of him will be unveiled at the college.
The picture was painted by a New York artist and purchased by the trustees of the college. Davidson’s alumni chapters
in many cities will hold their annual meetings on (Continued on Page 6, Col. 3)
