NEW OFFICERS ARE INSTALLED ON MONDAY

The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

STUDENT BODY ELECTIONS ARE COMPLETED

Vol. XXII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., APRIL 24, 1935 No. 25

STUDENTS CHOOSE MEN TO SERVE AS COUNCIL MEMBERS

Members Are Selected From Among Three Upper Classes Of Student Body

FOURTEEN ARE ELECTED

Presidents Of Classes Become Members Automatically

Elections for the members of the Student Council were completed last week, with the exception of one representative from the
rising Sophomore class who had not been chosen at the time The Davidsonian went to press. Nominees for Student Council
positions from the rising Senior class were twelve in number: Jack Alexander, Martin Barnett, Lamont Brown, Harvey Glass, Paul Harlan,
Sid Marsh, Hunter McClung, John Partridge, Archie Shuford, Gordon Smith, Mills Taylor, and Coley Windham. Six of these were eliminated
in the first day’s balloting, with Brown, Harlan, Partridge, and Windham elected to council positions. The other position was still
in dispute between Mills Taylor and Sid Marsh. On the second day, Taylor was elected. Bob Lindsay, president of the
rising Senior class, is thereby automatically a member of the council.

Of the members of the rising Junior class, nine were nominated for positions on the council. These were: Wade Boggs,
Jack Branch, F. A. Cathey, Heman Clark, Al Cumbie, Wilbur Edwards, Tyler Port, Harold Sugg, and Kenneth Scott. Edwards was
elected on the first ballot, and later ballots named Boggs and Scott as other councilmen. R. H. Patterson, president of
the class for next year, is an automatic member of the Student Council.

Candidates from the class of ’38 were: R. J. Alderman, Reid Bahnson, Wade Barrow, Billy Crooks, Jim Dorsett, H. B.
Patterson, and Lawrence Reid. Bahnson and Reid were dropped from candidacy the first day, and Dorsett was elected on the
second day. The third day saw Barrow’s name dropped from the ballot, and left the race for the remaining seat
between Alderman and Patterson. This election was scheduled to take place yesterday. “Teeny” Lafferty, president of the class, is an
automatic member of the council.

On Monday morning during the installation exercises these men were installed as the new Student Council, with Carlton Chapman, head
of the Student Body for the coming year, as their president. Brown is a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon, and
hails from Barium Springs, N. C. Harlan, a Phi Gamma Delta, is from Jackson, Tenn. Lindsay is from Winston-Salem, N.
C., and is a member of Kappa Sigma fraternity. Partridge is from Atlanta, Ga., and is a member of Phi
Delta Theta fraternity. Taylor is from Wilmington, N. C., and is a member of Pi Kappa Phi. Windham’s home is
in Gastonia, and he is a member of Beta Theta Pi fraternity. Boggs is a Kappa Sigma, and his home
is in Atlanta, Ga. Edwards is a Charlotte youth, and a member of Beta Theta Pi. Kenneth Scott calls Tsinan,
China, his home, and Patterson, a Phi Gamma Delta, is from Trenton, Tenn. Lafferty is a member of Pi Kappa
Alpha fraternity, and is from Concord, N. C. Dorsett is a Phi Gamma Delta, and is from Salisbury, N. C.
Joe Alderman and Buford Patterson are from Alcolu, S. C., and Charlotte, N. C., respectively.

Band Renders Program During Easter Vespers

The musical vesper services, planned to be held in the athletic stadium on Easter Sunday afternoon, were rendered by the
concert band in Chambers Auditorium at 4 o'clock. Under the direction of James Pfohl, the band opened the program with
“The Coronation March,” from “The Prophet,” by Meyerbeer. Dr. Richards led the congregation in the invocation, followed by the scripture
reading by Gordon Brown. The band then followed with two chorales, “My Jesus, As Thou Wilt,” and “Passion Chorale.” The
band selection, “Gloria,” by Bordese, followed another scripture reading. Moreland Cunningham gave a cornet solo, “The Rosary,” by Ethelbert Nevin.
“The Easter Anthem” and “The Hallelujah Chorus,” two selections from the “Messiah,” by Handel, concluded the musical portion of the
service. Dr. T. W. Lingle pronounced the benediction.

Students To Reserve Rooms For Next Year

May 10th is the date that has been set by the administration of Davidson for the selection of rooms for
next year by the students. According to custom, the rooms vacated by seniors will be reserved for next year’s freshmen.
The college's fiscal year ended on April 30th, consequently students who owe the college money have been receiving bills for
these debts during the last few days. Mr. Jackson, treasurer of the college, will submit to the trustees on May
3rd the annual report of the finances of the college up to the date of April 30th.

LOCAL DEBATORS CHOOSE LEADERS

Paul Harlan, from Jackson, Tenn., was elected to the post of president of the Forensic Council for the coming year
at a meeting of the organization held last Wednesday. Harlan is a member of Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity, and
succeeds Bob Smith. Harlan has been a managing editor of The Davidsonian, an alternate on the varsity debating team, and
assistant editor of the Y Handbook during the past year. He was a member of the track squad his freshman
year, and has been active in the Red and Black Masquers in several of their productions. He was elected to
the 1935-36 Student Council, and is the new editor of the Y Handbook.

In the same election, Tyler Port and James Salango were elected vice-presidents; Wade Boggs and Wilbur Edwards, secretary and treasurer,
respectively, and Harold Sugg, debate manager. Officers of the Forensic Council during the past year were: Bob Smith, president; Mims
Rogers, secretary and treasurer, and Warner DuBose, debate manager. The debate manager’s duty is to arrange the debating schedule and
handle all correspondence concerning this schedule. In fulfilling the duties of this office, Warner DuBose, a member of Kappa Alpha
social fraternity, from Mobile, Ala., has arranged meets with the most prominent Southern universities. Harlan, newly-elected president, stated that he
hoped for a larger debating schedule for the coming year, and, if possible, two or more queries.

S.P.E.’s Win Prize In Cloud Of Smoke

Pi K. A.’s Capture Second Place With Phi Delts And Phi Gams Trailing

A total of 2,959 votes, representing as many Old Gold wrappers and boxes, won the grand prize of fifty dollars
for the S. P. E.’s and closed a six weeks’ smoking contest last Saturday night, April 20th. Almost all the
Greek populace of Davidson suddenly switched brands of cigarettes six weeks ago and began a smoking marathon which brought in
receipts of approximately $1,078, according to the number of wrappers turned in. Of this the winning fraternity spent $443.85 to
win their prize. The votes cast by each of the fraternities were as follows: S. P. E., 2,959; Pi K.
A., 1,950; Phi Delt, 1,054; Phi Gam, 1,033; Kappa Sig, 110; Pi Kappa Phi, 101; K. A., 35; Beta, 6.
Each package turned in counted one vote, each front from a package of flat fifty counted six votes. Votes were
tabulated for the first time at the end of the first three weeks, and thereafter at the end of every
week.

LOCAL MILITARY UNIT PREPARES FOR INSPECTION

Capt. Brand To Arrive Thursday Morning To Survey R. O. T. C. Classes

PARADE FRIDAY AT 2:10

Field Program To Be Demonstrated On Golf Course

Captain Tom S. Brand of the Fourth Corps Area, U. S. Army, will conduct the annual inspection of the Davidson
College R. O. T. C. unit on Thursday and Friday, April 25 and 26. Captain Brand will arrive in Davidson
on Thursday morning and will visit President Lingle. All classes will be inspected at regular periods with tests to be
given along with practical work. This same afternoon will also be devoted to a detailed inspection of the records and
property of the administration, including the latest statement of the inventory. Friday morning will be spent in the inspection of
the armory equipment and administration.

On Friday afternoon at 2:10 o'clock the battalion will be formed and an inspection will be held at Richardson Field.
This will consist of short calisthenics, a parade, inspection by Captain Brand and the Davidson R. O. T. C. officers,
followed by some drill. The drill will be executed by company, platoon, and squad. These demonstrations will be concluded with
a platoon from one of the companies going to the golf course, where a field problem will be given as
if in actual warfare. Captain Brand has been stationed for the last five years in Charlotte as an instructor to
the North Carolina National Guard. He is a native of Augusta, Ga., and entered the army during the World War
when he went to France. The report of Captain Brand will be filed with the War Department at Washington to
determine the rating of the local unit for this year. For the past few years Davidson has received an “excellent”
rating from the inspector. Members of the local unit began final preparations for the inspection early this week. Rifles were
being cleaned and uniforms cleaned and pressed in all efforts to earn an “excellent” rating again this year.

Due to the fact that the inspection is to be held on Richardson Field instead of the Freshman Field, a
large crowd is expected for the exhibition.

DEBATORS WIN DECISION OVER OPPOSING TEAM

Smith And Sugg Defeat Debating Representatives Of Emory University

MEET IN SOCIETY HALL

Smith Ends Brilliant Three-Year Forensic Career

Bob Smith and Harold Sugg defeated one of Emory's crack debating teams last Friday night, April 19, before a large
audience in the Eumenean Literary Society Hall. Emory’s team, composed of Mr. Remington Dennis and Mr. Douglas McConnell, upheld the
affirmative side of the query, “Resolved: That the nations should agree to prevent the international shipment of arms and munitions.”
Davidson took the negative side of the question. Skip Brown presided at the debate, and Prof. Riggs McConnell, of the
University of Virginia, who is studying for his L.L.D. degree at Columbia University, was judge.

With this debate, Bob Smith ends a brilliant career as a debater of three years’ standing. Smith was a member
of the freshman debating team his first year. Smith is also editor of the 1935 Quips and Cranks, and is
a member of several fraternities. Sugg is a sophomore, and this is his first year of varsity debating. He was,
however, a member of last year’s freshman debating team.As a varsity debater, he received several honorary mentions in his first
year on the debating squad. He pinch-hit for Wade Boggs, who was scheduled for the debate but was unable to
take part on account of sickness. Davidson will continue an exceptionally successful debate season with a bout with Washington and
Jefferson University, located in Washington, Pa. This debate will be held in the American Literary Society Hall on Thursday night,
April 25. Sugg and Stutts will represent Davidson and will uphold the affirmative side of the query, which will be
the same as that used by all the colleges and universities this year, viz. the one dealing with munition shipments,
as quoted above. This year’s debating program was largely in the hands of Smith, president of the Forensic Council, and
Warner DuBose, who handled the large correspondence carried on by the debate manager.

(Continued on Page 5, Col. 5)

“D” Club Elects Earl Frazier President
Coley Windham And Baxter Yarborough Are Chosen Vice-President And Secretary

Earl Frazier, star track man, was elected president of the “D” Club, and Coley Windham and Baxter Yarborough, vice-president and
secretary, in a recent election. There were two ballots cast. Those on the first ballot were: Earl Frazier, Johnny Pierce,
Coley Windham, and Baxter Yarborough. On the second ballot, Earl Frazier was elected president; Coley Windham, vice-president; and Baxter Yarborough,
secretary and treasurer. The man who received the largest number of votes was made president, and the next largest, vice-president,
and the third largest, secretary and treasurer.

The president, Earl Frazier, is a member of the Junior class, “D” Club, vice-president of the Junior class, freshman track,
varsity track, intramural boxing champion, and the holder of the mile and two-mile records for the state. The vice-president, Coley
Windham, is a member of the Junior class, “D” Club, president of the Junior class, a member of the Student
Council, on the varsity football, freshman football, and varsity basketball squads, intramural boxing champion, an officer in the R.O.T.C., and
a member of Beta Theta Pi social fraternity. The secretary and treasurer, Baxter Yarborough, is a junior, member of the
“D” Club, varsity football player, vice-president of the Senior class, and a member of the Kappa Alpha social fraternity.

At this meeting, new members of the club were also initiated with a formal initiation. The new members were those
men who received varsity letters for winter sports. They were: Henry Cathey, James Hodgin, Ken Knorr, “Polk” Moffett, Frank Owen,
Charles Parker, Maurice Peabody, Bill Quick, Luther Shirey, and Knox Thompson. These men received varsity letters in either basketball or
wrestling. It was decided at this meeting to hold an informal initiation for those receiving varsity letters in spring sports.
The informal initiation, which consists of such things as breaking eggs on each other’s heads and throwing molasses and flour
on the bystanding students, has proven popular and amusing with those who are not being initiated.

Final Concert Of Year Features Wilson Angel

The Davidson College Concert Series was brought to a successful close Tuesday evening, April 23, by the voice recital of
Wilson Angel, bass, in Chambers Auditorium. Mr. J. G. Angel was accompanied by Mrs. Pfohl and gave the following selections:
“Clouds” and “Sweet Song of Long Ago,” by Kathleen Manning; “The Trumpeter,” by Airlie Dix; “Als die Alte Mutter,” by
Dvorak; “Sapphische Ode,” by Brahms; “Nur wer die Sehnsucht Kennt,” by Tschaikowsky; “Erlkonig,” by Schubert; “Lungi dal caro bene,” by
Secchi; “O Nuit d’Amour” (from Mesaline), by de Lara; “Le Cor,” by Legier.

(Continued on Page 6, Col. 6)

NEW STUDENT BODY OFFICERS INDUCTED AT CHAPEL MONDAY

Retiring President GORDON “SKIP” BROWN

Leaders on the Davidson campus are considered as men the student body trusts, but in the true sense of the
word, a leader is one who really directs those whom he is chosen to lead. Many leaders consider their work
well-done if they follow successfully in the footsteps of their predecessors or match the accomplishments of their contemporaries. Others feel
that their election is nothing more than an honor which has been bestowed on them. For a genuine leader, election
is only the beginning.

When “Skip” Brown retired on Monday as president of the student body, Davidson lost a man who typified this ideal.
Coming from a section of the country whose customs and manners differed radically from those existing at Davidson, he adjusted
himself to his new environment with a rapidity which was startling in view of the situation. As evidence of his
complete orientation, his classmates chose him as their first president at the end of the freshman year. So evident was
his ability as an executive that his election to the highest honor on the Davidson campus seemed assured.

In spite of his success in this and other undertakings, and the outspoken regard in which he was held by
the students, Brown maintained his humility.

(Continued on Page 6, Col. 5)

Harlan Chosen As Handbook Editor

Harlan Is Elected President Of Forensic Council For Coming Year

New Staff Selected By Y. M. C. A. Cabinet From Outstanding Material On The Campus

Paul Y. Harlan has been appointed editor-in-chief of the 1935-36 Wildcat Handbook by the “Y” Cabinet, succeeding Don Bailey who
edited the publication for the past year. The staff of assistant editors who will help in compiling the data for
the book are: Robert Lafferty, activities editor; Howard Dyer, student government editor; Bisco Howell, Y. M. C. A. editor; Charles
Mauze, athletics editor; Ralph McClelland, fraternities editor; and Kenneth Fryfogle, who will edit the general section. The business managers have
not as yet been selected from the members of the rising Senior and Junior classes. Mr. Harlan expects to have
the Handbook ready for press by June 15. As has always been the custom, a copy will be sent August
15th to each member of the incoming Freshman class.

The newly-appointed editor is from Jackson, Tenn., a member of I. R. C., Student Council, Red and Black Masquers, and
Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity. The last issue of the Handbook was dedicated to Sam Wiley, ex-Y. M. C. A.
secretary, but as yet it hasn't been decided to whom the 1935-36 Handbook will be dedicated. This will be decided
at a later date by the members of the Y. M. C. A. Cabinet. This handbook has always been very
helpful to the first-year man in helping him to become acclimated to the school. It is also very valuable to
upperclassmen, as each issue contains much new information that is indispensable to them.

Impressive Ceremony Marks Beginning Of New Student Administration

E. F. McPHAIL PRESIDES

Skip Brown Turns Over Reins To Carleton Chapman

Student body officers for the coming year were installed by members of the outgoing administration at an impressive ceremony held
at the regular chapel period Monday morning. Walter Sprunt, president of the Y. M. C. A., opened the service, after
faculty and student announcements, with scripture reading and a short prayer. Then each outgoing officer, at the tap of Chairman
Fred McPhail’s gavel, conducted the succeeding officer to the stage and duly installed him.

Gordon Brown, student body president, first led Carleton Chapman to the platform and addressed the student body. Brown thanked the
members of the Student Council for their diligence and unbiased decisions, which had had a large part in making a
sound and effective student government. Secondly, he expressed his gratitude to K. D. Weeks, outgoing editor of The Davidsonian, for
his distinguished service in making the weekly paper an instrument through which campus sentiment might be expressed. Then he thanked
the students themselves for their cooperation, without which an effective administration is impossible. Finally, “Skip” Brown addressed Carleton Chapman concerning
his reign as president. He warned Chapman that the students might revert to their childhood with such implements as hose
and paper airplanes, but nevertheless, they would be honorable beneath. In conclusion, he wished the rising president the best of
luck during his administration.

In the response, Chapman stated that he would not ask for cooperation on the part of the student body, because
he thought it entirely unnecessary to make such a demand. He then referred to the high standard set by the
outgoing officers and promised to “try to keep up the good work.” At the request of Gordon Brown, all newly-elected
members of the Student Council were called forward to take the oath. They promised to perform all their duties to
the best of their ability, not to charge or maliciously encourage anyone to be charged or tried, nor to let
anyone escape from judgment in any form of reward.

Sprunt, president of the Y. M. C. A., then conducted Harvey Glass to the platform and addressed the student body.
He expressed his thanks to the students for their cooperation and asked that they show even more interest in “Y”
work during the coming year. In conclusion, he presented Harvey Glass with the book containing the Y. M. C. A.
constitution, the Holy Bible. Glass responded by paying tribute to the outgoing president and council, and pledging himself and the
incoming council to the students. He concluded, after a few final remarks, with a short prayer.

A. J. Potter, outgoing president of the Athletic Association, led Henry Cathey up on the stage for installation. Potter thanked
the student body for their increased interest in athletics, and con-

(Continued on Page 6, Col. 4)

Next Issue Of Yowl To Be Released May 15th

The next issue of the Yowl, Davidson’s humor publication, will make its appearance May 15th, according to a recent announcement.
The deadline for material going into this issue will be May 1st. The old and new editors, Lorenzo McPhail and
“Scotty” McLeod, will work together on this issue to put out a superb Yowl. This plan was used by the
retiring and incoming editors at this time last year. In honor of his work on the Yowl staff and as
a parting sentiment, the cover will be drawn by “Skip” Brown, one of the former managing editors. Another joke contest
ending the first of May will be sponsored by the Life Saver Company. The winner of the last contest was
R. R. Gregory, who received a carton of Life Savers for his efforts. The same prize will be awarded in
this contest.
