THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 30, 1935

BISHOP KERN AS VESPER LEADER

Noted Methodist Dignitary Speaks At Two Sunday Services, January 20

Bishop Paul B. Kern of the Methodist Church, who conducted the morning service Sunday, January 20, was also the speaker
at the Vesper service that evening. Bishop Kern, a native of Alexandria, Virginia, took his undergraduate work at Randolph-Macon College
and at Vanderbilt University. Since that time he has had a varied career in church work and teaching. In 1915
he was made a professor in the Theological Department of Southern Methodist University and later dean of the Theological School
of that university. Bishop Kern was elected a bishop of the Methodist Church in 1930.

At the Vesper service, Walter Sprunt, president of the Y. M. C. A., presided, and Bob Coit led in prayer.
Special music was furnished by the glee club. Bishop Kern selected as his scripture parts of the twenty-first chapter of
Revelations, which gives the picture of heaven. This particular part emphasized by the speaker deals with the gates of heaven,
and the fact that they shall always remain open. Bishop Kern then pointed out that there were four different approaches
to heaven or, in other words, to religion—ritualism, reason, emotionalism, and volition. Some people feel that the ritual or ceremony
of the church is a sine qua non, while others must reason out all before attaining unquestioning belief. Still others
need an appeal to the emotions such as the revival, while another type gains religion by sheer will.

Undergrads Select All-American Team

Bierman’s Minnesota Gophers Receive More Mentions Than Any Other Team

For the first time in the history of intercollegiate football, the undergraduates of the nation—the bull-session “experts” and “Monday morning
coaches” of fraternity and dormitory houses—have chosen their own all-American football team, and they agree with the selections of the
professional experts only a little better than 50 percent of the time. The thousands of college men and women from
all sections of the country who sent in their “bests” in a nationwide all-American poll, results of which are announced
in today’s issue of Collegiate Digest, chose the following men as the outstanding football players of the 1934 season:

Captain and Fullback—Pug Lund, Minnesota.
Halfbacks—Fred Borries, Navy; and Duane Purvis, Purdue.
Quarterback—Bobbie Grayson, Stanford.
Center—Jack Robinson, Notre Dame.
Guards—George Barclay, North Carolina; and Regis Monahan, Ohio State.
Tackles—Larry Lutz, California; and Bill Lee, Alabama.
Ends—John Pennypacker, Pennsylvania; and Frank Larson, Minnesota.

Bernie Bierman’s championship Minnesota Gophers received more mentions for the various positions on the team than any other single gridiron
aggregation. In fact, they received such wide recognition from students in all sections of the country that they undoubtedly are
the national champions of the students in the 250 colleges and universities who participated in the poll. Despite the great
scattering of votes for favorites from various sections of the country, those who were voted in final place on the
team received an overwhelming number of ballots in their favor. The “hero” of all of the collegians in the past
season was Francis “Pug” Lund, of Minnesota, who received more votes than any other player in the country. A team
of true leaders, the all-American eleven selected by the collegians includes men who are individual stars on their own teams,
and more than half of whom are captains of their own teams.

Maydanis Disappointed In Lecturer’s Address

Andreos Maydanis, local restauranteur of “Little Pep” fame, attended the lecture by Robert E. Roth on “Alaska” in Chambers auditorium
last Monday night. Along about eight-thirty Mr. Maydanis (better known as “Andy”) returned to his cafe very much chagrined. When
questioned about his attitude by a late diner, he gave the following excuse: “Some of da’ boys at sup’r tonite
talk about ‘t. I go to watch da boys vote at da ‘lection but ‘wasn’t ‘lection ‘t’all. Was’a lecturur... I
didn’t geta to vote!”

Collegiate Tally Reveals Increase

(Continued from Page 3)

Where R. O. T. C. is optional, there seems to be less of a problem than where it is required.
In some of the colleges which report no R. O. T. C. units, requests for optional military training courses have
been made. One editor points out that “students are getting ‘fed up’ on the extreme radicalism of the ‘peace at
any price’ group, which consists of a small group of socialist pacifists.” Another suggests that “a period of compulsory military
service in return for the protection offered by the Government should be served by every young man, but this should
not be administered through the colleges of the country.”

At one school, the editor lists the following as evidences of the increased sentiment in favor of peace: “riots, strikes,
demonstrations, protest meetings, boycotts, suspensions, expulsions, probations, and censorships.” Class discussions have centered on the problem of peace, one editor
declares. At this college, the students all heartily disapproved of the United States disarming, because of the dangers involved. “Students
are discussing the problem more freely, and seemingly with almost unanimous disapproval of war,” a college president observes, while another
feels that along with an increasing sentiment for peace “there is a feeling that the United States should be always
adequately prepared for non-aggressive war.”

“I personally feel that if it were not for the waste of time in the course, (military training), it would
be fine to keep it up because students are so opposed to it that unknown to the instructors they are
inculcating a spirit of anti-militarism in the students,” another college president declares. Differing from the opinion of the last president
quoted is the following statement, also by a college president: “I have given careful attention to the courses of instruction
imparted in the military division of the university, and in no sense do I believe that they tend to incline
the mind of our youth towards war as a solution of our national problems. In special reference to the R.
O. T. C., I find that the military training whose benefits are desired by the state authorities tends in a
very real sense to lead our youth to an appreciation of the necessity for wholesome living and to impart the
ideals...”of truthfulness, honor, and self-sacrifice which may again be of great use in preserving the free institutions of both our
state and nation.”

“Everyone desires peace, but few see any proper relation between this and obstruction of the federal program for national defense
as represented by R.O.T.C. This modest and inoffensive civilian organization for military training could be regarded as the most effective
peace organization at this university,” states another college head. (By Associated Collegiate Press)

Waterville, Me.—Five or more generations of American ancestry are one of the requirements for 20 new hundred-dollar scholarships to be
awarded annually by Colby College beginning next fall, it has been announced here.

“This unusual requirement is due to a stipulation in the will of Charles Potter Kling who left the sum of
$50,000 to Colby College for the specific purpose of providing scholarship aid to “needy male students of American Colonial or
Revolutionary ancestry.” Mr. Kling was a strong believer in the historic New England tradition and thus wished to promote the
welfare of young people representing that type of background, as well as to strengthen this early New England college. Besides
this specific bequest for scholarship endowment, Mr. Kling left to Colby a share of his residual estate which, according to
unofficial estimates, will amount to between half and three-quarters of a million dollars.

Applicants for the Kling scholarships will be required to present genealogical proof that one or more ancestors resided in one
of the American Colonies before 1776, or served as a soldier in the Continental armies of the American Revolution. (By
Associated Collegiate Press)

Swarthmore, Pa.—Yale, Harvard, and Princeton students were awarded nine of the 1935 United States Rhodes Scholarships, according to the list
announced by President Frank Aydelotte of Swarthmore College, American Secretary to the Rhodes Trustees. The 32 awards are still subject
to ratification by the Rhodes Trustees. Yale led with four students placed, with Harvard second with three, and Princeton third
with two. Twenty-three other schools had one representative each. Each scholarship carries with it a stipend of 400 pounds annually
for two years of study at Oxford.

Mock Court Martial Creates Excitement (Continued from Page 3)

The case then went before the jury and Reilly Rogers, in a flowing peroration of his client's virtues, denied each
and every charge. Dapper “Wimp” Wilentz Ravenel, his eyes flashing, told the court to find the scoundrel guilty on every
point. After a 45-minute deliberation by the court, Major A. J. Potter announced that the accused had been found guilty
on the first and second counts and not guilty on the third. He then sentenced Harris to “dismissal from the
service of the United States” and announced to the fearful populace of Davidson that they could now leave the hen
house door unlocked and let the children stay out after dark.

Pan-Hellenic Features Paul Sabin’s Music (Continued from Page 1)

Popular melodies and syncopated rhythms, which are always played in subdued tones. He is including Davidson in his tour of
Southern Colleges, his first appearance in the South with the exception of a Florida engagement. The dance Friday night, February
15, from 9:30 until 2, will be formal. The tea dance Saturday will be from 5 until 7 o'clock and
the informal dance Saturday night will commence at 8:30 and terminate at midnight. The brilliant figure which is always a
feature of the formal dance Friday will be arranged this year by an expert in Charlotte who excels in this
phase of terpsichore. Sabin’s record of engagements for the past two years is exceedingly creditable: It includes The Roney Plaza
Hotel, Miami Beach, Florida; Vivian Johnson’s Exclusive Supper Club, Monmouth Beach, New Jersey; Westchester Biltmore Country Club, Rye, New York;
the famous Hotel Delmonico, New York; Park Central Hotel, New York; Chase Hotel, St. Louis, and Tavern-on-the-Green at Central Park,
New York. At present, he is at The Colonnades, Hotel Gayoso, in Memphis, where he is broadcasting twice nightly over
Station WMC.

Faculty Members Attend Convention (Continued from Page 1)

The four section meetings held on Thursday afternoon. These smaller meetings gave those particularly interested in any one phase of
educational problems ample opportunity to meet with others faced with these particular problems and to discuss probable solutions for them.
The ever-recurring problems of academic freedom and academic tenure were brought to the front in these meetings. In the report
of Dr. Robert Kelly, Executive Secretary, the speaker made very complimentary remarks on the “More and Better Wills Conference” held
here on the campus earlier in the school year. The convention was brought to a close after a brief meeting
on Friday morning entertaining the reports of the sectional meetings Thursday. The representatives then drove to Stone Mountain where they
enjoyed the greater part of the afternoon. Dr. Walter Lingle will deliver an address to the meeting of the Quadrangulars
Club on Thursday evening, at which time he will bring to the faculty his observations at this, and other educational
meetings he has attended during the past two months.

Our Reputation Speaks For Itself NORTON’S BARBER SHOP

So far as we know, tobacco was first used about 400 years ago. Early Colonial planters shipped hundreds of pounds
of tobacco to England in return for goods and supplies.

© 1935, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.

They came looking for gold... but they found tobacco... and tobacco has been like gold ever since! The tobacco raised
in Virginia and exchanged for goods helped the struggling colonists to get a foothold when they came to America. Later
on, it was tobacco that helped to clothe and feed Washington’s brave army at Valley Forge. Today it is tobacco
that helps—more than any other commodity raised in this country—to pay the expense of running our Government. In the fiscal
year 1933-34, the Federal Government collected $425,000,000 from the tax on tobacco. Most of this came from cigarettes—six cents tax
on every package of twenty. Yes, the cigarette helps a lot—and it certainly gives men and women a lot of
pleasure. Smokers have several reasons for liking Chesterfields. For one thing, Chesterfields are milder. For another thing, they taste better.
They Satisfy.
