CATHEY ELECTED NEW PRESIDENT OF COLLEGE A. A.

LUX UB! ORTA

The Davidsonian

ALENDA LIBERTAS

SPRING SERVICES NOW BEING HELD BY J. A. REDHEAD

Vol. XXII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., APRIL 17, 1935 No. 24

BARNETT TO BE NEW EDITOR OF COLLEGE ANNUAL

Barnett, Of Meridian, Miss., Won Editorship Of Annual In First Ballot

THREE MEN IN BALLOT

Barnett, Downey And Smith Nominees For Office

In the recent Junior class election for editor of the annual, Martin Barnett, of Meridian, Miss., was named to that post in the first ballot. Martin Barnett, a rising senior, is a member of Sigma Phi Epsilon social fraternity, Alpha Sigma Epsilon and Delta Phi Alpha honorary fraternities. He is also a member of the “D” Club and No. 3 man on the varsity tennis team. Barnett, a managing editor of The Davidsonian during the past year, recently lost the editorship of that publication to Lamont Brown in a close race.

Martin Barnett succeeds Bob Smith, of Mobile, Ala., a member of Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity, and Omicron Delta Kappa, national leadership fraternity. The nomination for the yearbook election was entirely competitive so that only a part of the juniors on the annual staff were eligible for editorship. Those men nominated were Tom Downey, Martin Barnett, and Gordon Smith. Barnett has not yet selected next year’s managing editors, nor has the business managership been determined. The latter office will probably be decided within the next two weeks. Students are eligible for editorship of the annual who have done efficient work on the publication during their freshman, sophomore and junior years.

French Club Plans Visit To Converse

Le Cercle Francais To Present French Comedy

Le Cercle Francais, national French club organized for students especially interested in this language, has made plans for a trip to Spartanburg for a joint meeting with the Alliance Francais of Converse College on Monday, April 29. The Converse students will be in Davidson on May 1. The Davidson circle will present Le Medecin Malgre Lui, Moliere’s three-act comedy, at Spartanburg, and the Converse girls will give a dramatization of the medieval Aucassin et Nicolette. The same plays will be presented in Chambers by the two clubs on May 1. The public will be admitted for a small admission fee. Also, a complimentary dinner will be served in the college dining hall.

The following students are members of Le Cercle Francais: R. T. Coit, A. C. Coleman, J. H. Blass, G. L. Gullette, D. P. McLain, J. F. Slaughter, R. H. Smith, Jr., Frank Tucker, E. C. Womble, and B. W. Wyche.

H. Cathey Elected President Of D.C. Athletic Association

Henry Cathey Elected President In Third Ballot Over Earl Frazier

BALLOTING WAS CLOSE

Johnson, Knorr And Barrow Elected To Offices

Henry Cathey of Charlotte was elected to the presidency of the Athletic Association recently; Dick Johnson, Charlotte, was elected first vice-president, and Kenneth Knorr, of Staunton, Va., was elected second vice-president. Wade Barrow, of Denver, Colo., was elected secretary-treasurer. All rising seniors who had made letters were eligible for president and all rising juniors making letters were eligible for first and second vice-president. Those eligible for secretary-treasurer were all members of the rising sophomores making numerals.

The retiring officers for this year are: A. J. Potter, president; H. A. Cathey, first vice-president; C. L. Windham, second vice-president, and H. G. Gracey, secretary-treasurer. Henry Cathey defeated Earl Frazier on the third ballot for president. Armfield was eliminated in the third ballot by Dick Johnson for first vice-president. Wade Barrow eliminated Hogan in the third ballot for the office of secretary-treasurer.

Henry Cathey is a member of Pi Kappa Alpha social fraternity, and vice-president of the Student Body for the present year. He made his letter in football and is also co-captain of football for next year. The balloting was close in the entire election and numerous men were eliminated, making it necessary for the election to go to the third ballot before the officers could be elected.

Little Symphony Presents Concert

Thor Johnson Directs Third Davidson Concert Series

The University of Michigan Little Symphony, under the direction of Thor Johnson, presented the third concert of the Davidson College series Friday evening, April 12, in Chambers Auditorium. Soloists with the group were Miss Ruth Pfohl, concert harpist and head of the harp department in the School of Music, and Romine Hamilton, violinist and instructor in string instruments. John Krell, flutist; Charles Gilbert, oboist, and Bernard Hirsh, clarinetist, were incidental soloists.

The Little Symphony opened the program with the overture to the opera, “Mignon,” by Thomas, and followed by the “Trio Des Jeunes Ismaelites de l’Enfance du Christ,” by Berlioz. Romine Hamilton then exhibited his technical endowment in the brilliant Concerto No. 4 in D major, Mozart. The group probably gave its most finished performance in the playing of the “Flight of the Bumblebee,” a vividly descriptive number. Other numbers occupying prominent positions on the program were “Intermezzo," by Bizet; “La Fille Aux Cheveux de Lin,” Debussy, and the overture to the opera “Die Fledermaus,” by Strauss.

The work of Thor Johnson, conductor of the orchestra, is familiar to the residents of this state because of his outstanding work as director of the Carolina Ensemble. Mr. Johnson is now assistant instructor in the Department of Music of the University of Michigan. After the concert, the symphony was entertained at a reception given by Mrs. Pfohl and Mrs. Vowles.

Ghastly Negro Murder Takes Place In Davidson Saturday

Stark tragedy greeted Davidson students and their girls returning from the Bowery Ball in the early hours of last Sunday morning in the form of the bleeding body of John Stevens, a middle-aged negro man, lying near the railroad station covered only by a bloody sheet. When the crowd of dancers reached the campus and learned of the murder, Stevens had been dead for two hours, but his body, guarded by a policeman and a frightened group of negroes huddled about a small fire, remained where it had fallen, pierced by five bullets.

The man who filled Stevens’ back and head with lead is said to be another negro, Charles Ruth, who, despite the intensive search of authorities, and to the great uneasiness of the negro settlement, is still at large. Ruth was formerly in the employ of the college. He has always had a reputation among the negroes of the community for being a dangerous man to deal with when crossed. The officers in charge of investigating the crime have not officially established a motive for the slaying, but the rumor is current.

It all began several months ago when Ruth insulted a girl companion of Stevens’, the insults demanding a fight which saw Ruth considerably worsted, and both negroes sent to jail for short terms. During his imprisonment, it would seem, Ruth nursed his grudge until it grew to murderous intensity. He encountered Stevens Saturday night in the street at the railroad station. Accounts of the shooting are none too clear, but it seems that both men had been drinking, and that Ruth drew his pistol, fired twice into Stevens’ back and head, saw him drop dead on the ground, and then put two more shots into the corpse. (According to a janitor who insists he knows, the shooting was scheduled for Thursday night, but there was a hitch somewhere, and it had to be postponed.)

By the time some students who were in the Little Pep at the time reached the scene, Ruth had made good his escape down the railroad tracks. The improvised morgue afforded by the street light and the sheet attracted a number of boys, and a few girls, some of whom looked at the gory head, its features set horribly in a grin.

Honorary Military Group Issues Bids

Scabbard And Blade Issues Bids To Fifteen

The B Company, Fifth Regiment of Scabbard and Blade of Davidson will meet tonight in the Scabbard and Blade room for the purpose of discussing plans for Bid Day. The Scabbard and Blade is a national R. O. T. C. officers’ fraternity formed for the purpose of bringing the student officers together socially, and to make better leaders of them. The following men are members: C. T. Fort, captain, J. H. Batte, W. F. Brewer, L. F. Byerly, R. T. Coit, E. G. Holt, D. M. Hutchins, W. L. Northen, R. M. Porter, A. J. Potter, J. H. Powell, W. B. Ravenel, A. C. Rogers, P. M. Rogers, T. H. Sutton, Jr. The following men were taken in at the first of the year: B. Rose, G. Greene, Charlie Harris, Bob Smith, John Douglass, and H. Yelverton. Fifteen bids were sent out to rising seniors this morning and tentative plans have been made for an exclusive dinner dance for the members and their guests.

Davidson Alumni Gain Prominence At U. T. S.

Union Seminary, Richmond, Va., April 11—With the election today of the officers of the rising Middle class, the student elections were brought to a close.

Student Body Officers: President, T. B. Southall, Jr., A.B., Hampden-Sydney College, of Charlottesville, Va.; Secretary, William B. Ward, A.B., Davidson College, of Timmonsville, S. C.; Treasurer, Thomas M. Davis, A.B., Davidson College, of Waxhaw, N. C.; Director of Spiritual Life, Frank C. King, A.B., Hampden-Sydney College, of Newport News, Va.; Director of Intellectual Life, Frank Lewis, A.B., M.A., Washington and Lee, of Maxwellton, W. Va.; Director of Social Life, Duncan D. MacBryde, A.B., Davidson College, of Linden, N. C.; Director of Physical Life, Leslie Thompson, A.B., Davidson College, of Gastonia, N. C.

Senior Class Officers: President, John Currie Whitley, A.B., Davidson College, of Burlington, N. C.; Vice-President, Arnold Pate, A.B., Davidson College, of Pembroke, N. C.; Secretary-Treasurer, Marshall Flotz Hayden, A.B., Hampden-Sydney College, of Alexandria, W. Va.

Middle Class Officers: President, Howard Hoffman Gordon, A.B., Hampden-Sydney College, of Ocean City, N. J.; Vice-President, James Munn McChesney, Jr., A.B., King College, of Abingdon, Va.; Secretary-Treasurer, Howard Clinton Cobbs, A.B., Hampden-Sydney College, of Spring Hill, W. Va.

Football Captains: Leslie Thompson, Senior class, and Samuel S. Wiley, Davidson, Salisbury, N. C., Middle class.

From these student body officers, the following will compose the executive council: T. B. Southall, Jr., William B. Ward, Thomas M. Davis, Frank C. King, Frank Lewis, Duncan D. MacBryde.

GLAGD ELECTS LINDSEY NEW PRESIDENT

Baxter Yarborough, Of Kannapolis, Wins In Race For Vice-President

NOMINEES OF FLOOR

Billy Merchant, of Charlotte, Made Sec’y-Treasurer

In the election last week for next year’s Senior class officers, Bob Lindsay was elected president, Baxter Yarborough, of Kannapolis, was elected vice-president, and Billy Merchant, of Charlotte, was elected secretary-treasurer.was elected vice-president, and Billy Merchant, secretary-treasurer. Balloting started on Tuesday morning. The following men were nominated for president of the class: Cokey Branton, Henry Cathey, Bob Lindsay, Treadway Purnell, and Mills Taylor. Cathey and Taylor were eliminated as a result of the first ballot, and Bob Lindsay and Cokey Branton entered the third ballot. After a close race, Bob Lindsay was elected to the office. The following five men were nominated for vice-president: Joe Dees, Hank Loftin, Prosser Morrow, Johnny Pearce, and Baxter Yarborough. Morrow and Loftin were dropped after the first ballot, and Joe Dees lost out on the second ballot. The third ballot was cast between Yarborough and Pearce, and Yarborough emerged victorious. Four men were nominated for secretary-treasurer. They are as follows: J. B. Goslin, Joe Johnston, Sid Marsh, Billy Merchant, and Gordon Smith. Smith was removed after the first ballot, and Goslin and Marsh dropped from the race after the second ballot. The third ballot contained Johnston and Merchant as nominees, with Merchant winning the office. Bob Lindsay, of Winston-Salem, is a member of Kappa Sigma social fraternity and was manager of the freshman tennis team. Baxter Yarborough, of Kannapolis, is a member of Kappa Alpha social fraternity and was a fullback on this year’s football team. Billy Merchant, of Charlotte, is a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity and has earned his letter.

Class Of ’37 And ’38 Elect Officers
Patterson And Lafferty Elected As Class Presidents

During the course of the last week, the rising Junior and Sophomore classes held elections of officers. The elected officers were: For the Junior class, Russell Patterson, president; Jim Morton, vice-president; and Hal Overton, secretary-treasurer. Nominations for the offices were made by the Student Council members of the class and announced Thursday morning. Nominated candidates for the presidency included Branch, Cathey, Clark, Edwards, Gracey, Patterson, Hunter, and Dickson. The first ballot eliminated all men except Edwards, Dickson, and Patterson. This ballot resulted in a deadlock and another ballot was necessary between these three men. A fourth ballot resulted in Patterson’s election over Dickson. Laurence Hill, Joe Hunter, Jim Morton, and George Norfleet were nominees for the vice-presidency. A second ballot was cast between Joe Hunter and Jim Morton, with Morton polling a majority of the votes. Elder, Overton, Scott, and Stuckey were nominated for the office of secretary-treasurer. Overton and Scott were candidates on the second ballot with Overton winning the election. Russell Patterson, newly-elected president, is a member of the Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity. Jim Morton, new vice-president, is a member of the Sigma Phi Epsilon social fraternity, and is the sophomore manager of the baseball team, and member of the Yowl staff. He is also one of the newly-appointed managing editors of The Davidsonian. Hal Overton, of Greensboro, is a member of the Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity, and a member of The Davidsonian, Quips and Cranks, and Yowl staffs. Monday morning’s balloting completed the elections of the officers of the rising (Continued on Page 6, Col. 4) Spring Services

REGISTRATION BEGINS

All students now in Davidson who are expecting to continue their studies here next year will register for the courses which they wish to take next year. This registration will start April 16, continuing through the 20th. The advance registration is necessary to give an idea of what courses are desired and also to ensure a student's obtaining courses which are necessary to him. Those who do not register during the required time are merely placing obstacles in the way of obtaining desired courses. The new student registration for next year is increasing rapidly, and at present, equals the number of students who had registered at this time last year. The final examinations will begin on the 21st or the 22nd of May and will continue through Friday, May 1st. The schedule will be published in the May 1st issue of The Davidsonian.

DEBATING TEAM WINS CONTEST
Port And Salango Defeat Georgia Tech In Final Debate Of Their Season

Tyler Port and James Salango closed their debating season with a record of four straight victories Wednesday night, defeating a team from Georgia Tech before a large audience in the Eumenean Society Hall. The favor of the team was two to nothing. Davidson Port and Salango concluded a brilliant season without having a judge cast a ballot against them. Debaters representing Georgia Tech were H. S. Simpson and R. P. Kytle, the visiting team taking the negative of the question, Resolved: That the nations should agree to prevent the international shipment of arms and munitions. The arguments were unusually fiery and the four speakers held the attention of the audience for an hour and a quarter. Teams falling before the advance of Port and Salango previously are Sewanee, University of Kentucky, and Centre. The Georgia Tech team is now concluding a tour of the Carolinas and Virginia. The next debate on Davidson's forensic program will be with Emory University Friday night at 7 o'clock. R. H. Smith, Jr., and Wade Boggs, who have recently returned from a northern tour, will engage the Emory team. A tentative date of April 22, Monday, has been set for a debate with Washington and Jefferson College. Harold Suge and Albert Stutts will represent Davidson in that debate. Salango and Port will not debate again until their trial for the next year's debating team. This event will take place during the coming year.

Brought To Conclusion By Talk Tonight
Rev. Redhead To Give Eighth In Series Of Sermons Begun Last Sunday
ATTENDANCE IS LARGE
“Captured By Christ” Is Minister’s Topic For Tonight

Bringing to a close the annual Spring Services, marked this year by a note of practicality and sincerity in religion, Rev. John A. Redhead will speak tonight on “Captured by Christ,” at 7 o'clock in Chambers Building. “Life in Four Dimensions” was Redhead's opening topic Sunday morning. “Length is measured by years and breadth is measured by the broadness of one’s interest in things and people,” said Rev. Redhead. Depth of conviction and feeling, and height of aspiration and ideals completed the four dimensions of life presented by the young preacher. “What a man gets out of life depends upon what he brings to life and upon his capacity for living. This capacity may be measured in the four above dimensions. The life of Christ, although only 33 years in length, was perfect and complete in all three of the other dimensions.” Speaking to a large vespers’ audience, Redhead spoke on “The Power of Sin.” “Our sins are mightier than we are, first in the power to fasten on us the sense of guilt and remorse which we cannot shake off. Second, our sins are mighty in their power to become habitual, and third, in the power to bring their consequences to bear upon other lives than our own.” “But although our sins are mightier than we are, our gospel is that we have a Savior who is greater than they,” was the concluding theme of the second sermon. “How to Make Religion Real,” a message of excellent frankness and practicality, was given before the student body assembled at chapel period Monday. “One's clothes, one’s manner of wearing the hair, or even one’s manners are no longer indications of one’s character or morality,” began the speaker. “But the road to life has not only a beginning but an end,” pointed out Redhead, “and the test of a moral or immoral act is what the result will be. And a supreme test for something that is good or bad, ethical or unethical, is ‘What would Christ do in this circumstance?’ The life of Jesus is the one perfect model upon which we may mold ourselves.” “How to Make Religion Real” was the keynote of the talk Monday night. “It may be made real to other people by giving it a flesh and blood setting in our own lives,” began the popular young minister. “That is the method God used: The Word was made flesh and dwelt among us.” He pointed out that incarnations to be persuasive should be attractive. Redhead pointed out that Jesus was master of the fine art of making goodness attractive—He was full of grace and truth. “Our incarnation of religion should be sincere,” warned Redhead. “Practice should conform to confession.” “Most of us would be good if it did (Continued on Page 6, Col. 2)

Pan-Hellenic
Davidson’s annual Bowery Ball, one of the most delightful social events of the college year, was held Saturday night in the Charlotte Armory-Auditorium, and proved to be an unusually successful and brilliant affair. Two other dances served as preliminaries to the ball and these were held in the Charlotte Hotel ballroom. Judging spring, though a bit nippy Saturday night, brought forth one of its most enjoyable times to welcome comely girls who made the situation perfect. The music, furnished by Jimmy Poyner and his orchestra, allowed the high spirits of none to decline until everything had come to a satisfactory close. The entertainments were sponsored by the Pan-Hellenic Council. The opening entertainment of the series was Friday night, lasting from 9 until 2, at the Hotel Charlotte. Following this was the free tea dance Saturday afternoon at the Armory with the Bowery Ball afterwards. The auditorium was gaily decorated with black and red streamers and a reflecting mirror ball in the middle hanging from the ceiling. Confetti and streamers were furnished to the delight of all. “A very impromptu figure led by Geddie Monroe and Louisa Rankin was immensely entertaining. Mr. Monroe wore the costume of an old lady with a huge straw hat offsetting this. Miss Rankin wore a flossy red blouse and a black skirt, while her shoes and hosiery fitted her ensemble perfectly. After the figure was over, the costume prize was awarded to Miss Mary Harris and Mr. Wilbur Edwards. Miss Harris wore a Russian ensemble consisting of a small hat of white bordered with red, a cape and dress of white satin and a pair of boots also of red and white. Mr. Edwards wore a rakish suit of gray with peg leg trousers, a stiff collared shirt, bowery tie, and a big derby accentuated by a walking cane. Along with the idea of the event Jimmy Poyner and his orchestra were dressed in costumes and played quite a few novelty numbers. Social fraternity visitors for the occasion included: Beta Theta Pi: Pauline Nisler and (Continued on Page 6, Col. 3)