THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 12, 1935

COURT MARTIAL AGAINST ACCUSED ROTC OFFICER TO BE HELD IN JANUARY

Unknown Member of “B” Company Steals Pistol and Disobeys Orders

IS ANNUAL OCCURRENCE

Trial Ends a Six Week’s Course In Military Law

Rumors of a Military Court-Martial on the campus were fully confirmed late this afternoon by a report from Headquarters of the Davidson Battalion, Reserve Officers’ Training Corps. The name of the accused, a member of “B” company, has not yet been made public. Officials have kept all investigations secret and the details were not made public until today. Members of the prosecution have charged the accused with stealing one .45 calibre pistol, value about twenty-five dollars, the property of the United States, and also with willful disobedience of orders.

The members of the court are: Captain J. W. Hassell, Trial Judge-Advocate; Capt. W. C. Branton, Defense Counsel; Capt. J. H. Ross, Law Member; Capt. J. M. Hodgin, Capt. I. C. Wooten, 1st Lt. A. A. Kuhn, Asst. Trial Judge-Advocates; 1st Lt. R. P. Morrow, Asst. Defense Counsel; Major C. L. Windham, 1st Lt. M. J. Barnett, 1st Lt. T. E. Downie, 1st Lt. D. B. Griffin, 1st Lt. W. R. Taber, 2nd Lt. W. M. Beaty, 2nd Lt. Cassels, 2nd Lt. J. H. Morrow, 2nd Lt. J. R. Pearce, 2nd Lt. A. W. Price, 2nd Lt. L. T. Purnell, 2nd Lt. D. M. Stewart.

This trial is the culmination of a six-week course in Military Law given to all seniors taking R.O.T.C. Last year’s victim was Gordon Wood. Justice in military circles is obtained through Court Martial. The 104th Article of War grants disciplinary power of a very mild form to commanding officers. There is a Summary Court Martial which can give as maximum punishment one month at hard labor and forfeiture of two-thirds of one month’s pay. The Special Court Martial, consisting of not less than three officers, may not give more than six months confinement and hard labor and two-thirds loss of six months’ pay. The most powerful is the General Court Martial that has the power to condemn a man to death.

RUBBER CHECKS FLOOD U.N.C.

The passing of worthless checks has become so prevalent on the University of North Carolina campus that their Student Council has been roused to action about the matter.

SPECIAL SOPH WEEK-END HAIRCUTS

NORTON’S Barber Shop

2 pairs $1.00 — 75c and $1.00 pair

Men that go places and do things... Interwoven shows good taste. They wear longer... important to cost. They're better rung... which assures greater comfort.

J. B. IVEY & CO. Charlotte, N. C.

EXAMINATION SCHEDULE TO BE PUBLISHED SOON

The examination schedule for the first semester has been tentatively drawn up by F. W. Hengeveld, Registrar. It will be presented to the faculty committee later this week to be approved. It will be published in the first issue of The Davidsonian that appears after the Christmas Holidays. Examinations this year will cover the period from Jan. 16, until January 25. Two examinations will be held every day as is customary. Chapel during this period will be held at ten minutes past twelve.

PARKER COMPANY AGAINST RACKET

Pen Manufacturers Warn Public About Razor-Blades Using Name

The following has been brought to the attention of the DAVIDSONIAN staff by the Parker Pen Company, one of our advertisers. We are glad to cooperate with them in an effort to keep our readers from being deceived by this misrepresentation.

The Parker Pen Company is successfully taking drastic steps to stamp out a current “racket” which hawks “Deals” so-called in “Parker” razor-blades in conjunction with fountain pens, under names by the racketeer shrewdly calculated to give the impression that the products are of the Parker Company's make, which, of course, they are not. Commonly, the advertising takes the form that ostensibly offers the “free gift” of the fountain pen with the purchase of a 49c package of the so-called “Parker New Blades.”

In this campaign against this racket, The Parker Pen Company has recently secured injunctions in a Federal Court against certain concerns and individuals who promote the scheme by supplying the razor blades and the cheap pens to be sold in such “Deals.” Also, it has prosecuted, in States from California to South Carolina, individual hawkers of the “Deals” and enjoined them. In the last-mentioned case, the injunction restrains the defendants and their agents from “directly or indirectly infringing upon the plaintiff's (The Parker Pen Company) trademark ‘Parker’ and from unfairly competing with or contributing to unfair competition with plaintiff through razor blade and fountain pen ‘Deals’ or otherwise; and especially from using the mark ‘Parker’ or any colorable imitation thereof in any manner or form upon razor blades or containers thereof or in any connection with the sale thereof.”

Retailers are requested to notify The Parker Pen Company promptly if any concern or individual approaches them in the promotion of any such “Deal.” Parker will appreciate also the name of the sales person or concern involved, and his or its address.

A recent issue of the Daily Tar Heel carries a large two-column spread urging the cooperation of the student body in stamping out this practice and calling attention to the abuses which make the announcement necessary.

Phonograph Records, Pianos, Everything Musical

ANDREWS MUSIC STORE North Tryon St. Charlotte

Cars for Rent. Gulf Gas and Oil

M. P. HENDERSON

Among the GREEKS

BETA THETA PI—Very little was done over the week-end but plans are being made for a lively Christmas party in the near future. The usual feed was held Sunday night at the chapter house.

PI KAPPA ALPHA—At a recent meeting Miss Volina Cline, of Gaffney, S. C., was elected sponsor of the chapter. Brothers Hamrick, Crisp, and Cline spent the week-end in Gaffney, S. C. The annual Christmas party will be held Wednesday night at the chapter house.

KAPPA ALPHA—Brother T. E. Downie will attend a Kappa Alpha convention in Memphis, Tenn., during the holidays. G. B. Gladden went to Spartanburg and R. L. Harris went to Greensboro.

PI KAPPA PHI—Brothers Kellam and Cameron went to Fayetteville and Raeford respectively for the week-end. Misses Anne Dye, Virginia Dewitt, and Sobby Burns visited the chapter on Sunday afternoon. The regular feed was held on Sunday night with a large number of the brothers and pledges present.

SIGMA ALPHA EPSILON—Brothers Matthis and Armfield spent the week-end in Asheboro. Mr. Latimer of Washington, D.C., was a recent visitor of the chapter. Brother Whitlock attended a Hi-Y conference at Durham.

KAPPA SIGMA—Brothers and visitors went to Winston-Salem. Higgins and W. P. Hill were visitors in Rock Hill, S. C. G. S. Norfleet went to Winston-Salem and J. F. Loftin went to Gastonia. The chapter was host to several out-of-town friends during the week-end. The usual feed was held Sunday night.

PHI GAMMA DELTA—Brothers W. C. Cooke and Bill Kiesewetter visited in Greensboro. J. K. Dorsett went to Esther Hambley. Brother Branton will leave for Greenville, Miss., in preparation for the Rhodes Scholarship competition. A Christmas party will be held in the chapter house Sunday night.

PHI DELTA THETA—Pledge Stevens Dees was pledged last week. The chapter Christmas party will be held Thursday night. All brothers were reported to be on the campus during the week-end.

SIGMA PHI EPSILON—Several of the brothers attended the North Mecklenburg beauty contest last week, after which they participated in nocturnal perambulations in the vicinity of Davidson. A feed will be held Thursday night and a Christmas program will be presented at this time.

Winners In ROTC Rifle Contest Given MedalsSalisbury chapter was a guest of “Cokey” for the week-end. Wednesday, Charles Rambe was the Sunday guest. The winners of the ROTC Rifle Competition for upperclassmen were presented their awards at the parade last Wednesday, December 4. A gold medal was awarded to R. H. Theiling, winner of the first prize, and to G. B. Cleveland, who was second, a silver medal. Theiling had a score of 372 points, while Cleveland was very little behind with 371 points. L. T. Purnell was given a bronze medal for having 358 points. This was the third prize. Honorable mention was given to W. S. Pharr, who had 349 points. This contest lasted from September 20 until Thanksgiving Day. Many marksmen went to the rifle range, which was open each night, and received practice.

Frosh Lose To Purol-Pepsters (Continued from Page 4)
The lead lengthened when two Purol goals went in and also a free shot. The 34-28 total was close, and Coach Chapman believes there are possibilities for a satisfactory record this year if the squad learns coordination and teamwork.

SOUTHERN PLACE YOUR ORDER NOW
Pictured above is one of the Davidson Centennial Plates which will commemorate the one hundredth anniversary of the founding of Davidson College. Fashioned by Wedgwood, the plates will be 10½ inches in diameter with Chambers Building as the center view.

Wedgwood Designs Centennial Plates
Alumni Association Sponsors Sale Of Plates Depicting Campus Scenes
In connection with the Centennial Celebration of Davidson's founding, the Davidson College Alumni Association will sponsor the sale of Wedgwood “Queensware” plates depicting the beauty of the Davidson campus and Chambers Building. These plates, made by Josiah Wedgwood and Sons of Etruria, England, show a view of Chambers Building and part of the campus. They are available in four different colors: blue, rose-pink, green, and mulberry. Twenty-five dozen will have to be ordered before the initial set can be started. They are sold in the United States by Jones, Duffee, and Stratton of Boston. An accompanying blank will facilitate ordering of the plates. Chambers Building was selected because it has been the center of Davidson life for almost a century and because the new building is a true representation of the college. For further details, consult the Alumni Journal which was issued on the tenth of this month.

Dr. T. W. Lingle Meets Convention of Schools
Dr. T. W. Lingle represented Davidson at the fortieth annual convention of the Southern Association of Colleges and Secondary Schools held in Louisville, Kentucky, last week. He also attended an after-meeting at which the Association of Southern Universities was formed. This assembly was a district gathering of educational leaders from the states of Missouri, Kentucky, Tennessee, Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, Florida, Mississippi, Alabama, Louisiana, and Texas. About one thousand delegates were accommodated at three large hotels. A warm welcome was extended to them by officials of the city of Louisville and the University of Louisville.

Sloan, McCulloch, Gaw, and Davidson played creditably in the Davidson lineup.

Davidson Soccer Team Downs Charlotte Club (Continued from Page 4)
Bell dived against the sphere and bounced it off his chest through the goal for the Wildcats’ third counter. Bell and Bixler played best for the visitors, while Bodington and Earle were outstanding for Charlotte. The excellence of the Davidson backs is proved by the fact that their goalie did not touch the ball during the entire game. This is probably some sort of a record.

Speed, Precision, Quality
Buff Shoe Shop
O. C. BUFF, Prop.

Merry Xmas
Meet Santa Claus with a PERFECT HAIRCUT from JOHNSON’S BARBER SHOP

10c STORE
Christmas Cards, Toys, and Gifts of All Kinds
Pay Us a Visit Before You Leave

Rev. Dick Conducts Sun. Nite Service
Minister Discusses Three Great Questions of Life
“What seek ye?” asked Rev. A. Dick of Fayetteville, North Carolina, guest speaker at the Sunday night Vespers, in his sermon on life. This is the searching question that faces every man and woman today. In order to arrive at an answer to this question, Rev. Dick discussed three questions about life. First, “What is life?” Life doesn’t mean just a physical standpoint, but that is not all. “Our body is what God has given us to live life with, to glorify it and make it what it ought to be.” Life is something intangible, and we cross its stage but once, making a permanent record, whether for good or bad. The second question is, “Where do you live?” The answer to this question is not dependent on physical circumstances, for in life we see only what we are looking for, we find only what we will. “When we come to the world in which we live, it is not what is on the outside that counts, but what is on the inside.” “If a man lives in the world God intended for him, he must have an ‘upper room’ with its windows open to the east.” The last question is, “How do you live?” Out of the moral breakdown since 1929 comes a demand for a reality in religion that has not been called for in years. “Fine counsel is always confusing, but examples are always clear.” “When we have found ourselves in Christ, then we can face life successfully.”

Bell made the last point with a penalty kick in the final quarter. Frazier, former Davidson star, played best for the visitors, while Bodington and Earle were outstanding for Charlotte. The excellence of the Davidson backs is proved by the fact that their goalie did not touch the ball during the entire game. This is probably some sort of a record.

Davidson College Alumni Association, Davidson, North Carolina
Please send me Davidson Centennial Plates ($15.00 per dozen), and I enclose ($ full price) as deposit, the balance to be paid when the plates are delivered. Color choice: [ ] Blue [ ] Rose Pink [ ] Green [ ] Mulberry. When plates are ready please ship to:
Address:
Signed:
Class:

CINEMATIC COMMENTS
DAVIDSON THEATRE
Wednesday, Dec. 11th
MUSIC IS MAGIC
Another of Alice Faye's light and entertaining performances. She is supported by Ray Walker, Bebe Daniels, and Mitchell and Durant.

Thursday, Dec. 12th
PERFECT GENTLEMAN
An entertaining story involving Frank Morgan, Cecily Courtneidge, Heather Angel, Herbert Mundin, and Una O'Connor.

Friday, Dec. 13th
IT’S IN THE AIR
This picture is an unusual fast-moving comedy starring Jack Benny, the false promoter, and Una Merkel, his wife. Ted Healey acts the part of the stooge and Nat Pendleton the dumb detective.

Saturday, Dec. 14th
TO BEAT THE BAND
This picture is a high-minded farce in which Hugh Herbert finds himself in a love affair with Phyllis Brook and a will leaving him a fortune provided he marries a widow in three days.

Monday and Tuesday, Dec. 16th-17th
SO RED THE ROSE
At last Stark Young's story of the old South has been screened with Margaret Sullivan taking the leading role. She is teamed with Walter Connolly, Randolph Scott, and Dickie Moore to make up a touching picture of an old Mississippi plantation.

J. O. JONES, Inc.
IT’S GREAT TO HAVE A LARGE SELECTION OF NEW SUITS AND OVERCOATS To Choose from in the Month of December when Many Stocks Are Depleted— A Big Shipment of Students Suits and Overcoats has Just Arrived
$22.50 $25.00 $27.50 $30.00
one and 2 trousers
J. O. JONES, Inc.
ENID BOWERT Representative

FLOWERS For the Dances
Ratcliffe’s

FRIDAY, DEC. 13
Davidson Theatre
MUSIC IS MAGIC
With Alice Faye, Bebe Daniels, Ray Walker, Mitchell and Durant

THURSDAY, DEC. 12
PERFECT GENTLEMAN
With Frank Morgan, Cecily Courtneidge, Heather Angel, Herbert Mundin, and Una O’Connor

SATURDAY, DEC. 14
IT’S IN THE AIR
With Jack Benny, Una Merkel, Ted Healey, and Nat Pendleton

MONDAY AND TUESDAY, DEC. 16-17
SO RED THE ROSE
With Margaret Sullivan, Randolph Scott, Walter Connolly, and Dickie Moore