THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 27, 1935

The Davidsonian
Founded by the Class of 1915
Associated Collegiate Press
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Printed by the QUEEN CITY PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate year.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879.

ARTICLES FOR PUBLICATION must be in the hands of Managing Editors by 4:00 o'clock p.m., Monday. Letters to the Editor
are welcomed, but all communications intended for publication must be signed.

K. D. WEEKS .................. Editor
J. A. C. WADSWORTH .... Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
Martin BARNETT .......... Managing Editor
Paul HARLAN .............. Managing Editor
Tom MARCHANT .......... Managing Editor
John WALKER ............. Managing Editor
Harvey GLASS ............. Managing Editor
Lamont BROWN ........... Sports Editor
Edin BOWERS ............. Exchange Editor
Carlyle VERGE ............. Feature Editor
Scotty McLEOD ........... Feature Editor
G. L. Cairns ............... Associate Editor
H. H. McPHAIL ............ Associate Editor
B. L. Rose .................. Business Mgr.
J. B. GOSLEN .............. Business Mgr.
A. V. CASSELS ............ Business Mgr.
Tom ROSS .................. Business Mgr.
J. S. McMURRAY .......... Business Mgr.
R. P. MORROW ............ Business Mgr.

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 27, 1935

No degree of knowledge attainable by man is able to set him above the want of hourly assistance.—JOHNSON.

We extend deepest sympathy to Dr. W. P. Cumming in his recent bereavement.

ON THE WORK OF THE ALUMNI SECRETARY

The Alumni Secretary’s office of Davidson College fills a position the duties and responsibilities of which are little appreciated by
the average student and alumnus of the College. Without the services of this office, Davidson would be lacking in a
completely organized administration. However, it is not the purpose here to dwell upon the merits of the office as a
whole, but upon its personnel.

Grier Martin, the present Alumni Secretary of Davidson College, is just rounding out two years of most successful service in
this capacity. When he came here in July, 1933, he was faced with the difficult task of reorganizing the office.
For the previous year, the College had been without the services of a full-time alumni secretary, due to the resignation
of Ernest Milton who left here to go to Barium Springs as treasurer and who will long be remembered here
for his fine work.

His first undertaking was to rearrange and bring up-to-date the records of all the alumni. In the course of this
task, he changed and corrected more than 1000 addresses. At this same time, he instituted a permanent records system which
affords an individual file of each alumnus to be kept. The new individual file system provides a picture of identification
and a summary of the activities of each alumnus during his stay at Davidson College.

Other notable achievements of his routine alumni office work include the forming of a schedule for class and city reunions
and local meetings, and the keeping of an up-to-date address list of ministers of the Presbyterian Church. Between July 1,
1933, and June 1, 1934, fifteen alumni meetings were held as a result of his supervision at which there were
more than 600 alumni in attendance. Since that time, he has been responsible for the formation of alumni associations in
several towns and cities and the holding of all alumni meetings on the same date.

In publicity work, he has slighted no department of college activity in providing for it a due amount of recognition.
He has sent numerous news stories to papers in the southeast and to the Associated Press, paying particular attention to
local publicity about students. The widespread recognition of some of our best athletes this year is due to his efficient
way of handling the publicity for them. He is the originator and editor of the Davidson College Alumni Journal, a
magazine which not only adds prestige to the College but which ranks with the best of alumni magazines in every
respect. The four issues of the Journal that he has thus far edited have met with great approval and have
stimulated a greater interest on the part of the alumni in their Alma Mater.

Another very valuable source of publicity for which most of the credit is due Mr. Martin is the Davidson College
half-hour radio program which is broadcast weekly from Chambers Auditorium over an extension wire from Station WBT. Many letters have
been received from all parts of the United States commenting favorably on the programs. The popularity with which the programs
have been received is adequate proof of the valuable publicity which the College derives from them. It was from the
suggestion and efforts of the present Alumni Secretary that the radio programs were made possible, and although the broadcasts have
been continued only through the cooperation of the various departments of the College, he deserves the initial credit for their
origin.

A great deal of the credit for the establishment of the celebration of Founder’s Day is due to him, particularly
the cooperation of the alumni on these occasions. The second of these celebrations is to be held April 9 and
several important speakers have been secured for the occasion. It is anticipated that Founder’s Day will soon be one of
the most important dates on the College calendar.

Grier Martin is to be congratulated on the fine and constructive work that he has done as Alumni Secretary for
the past two years. Davidson College is indeed indebted to this man for his loyal and efficient service.

MORE SIDEWALKS ARE NEEDED

The abundant rain that we have had recently again impresses on us the need for more and better sidewalks on
the Campus. Two or three more hard surface walkways in the right places would put to an end the requests
that have so frequently been the subject for editorials in The Davidsonian. When one considers the large amount expended on
paving within the last year it does seem strange that those living in North, South, East, and West should be
so utterly neglected and left with no dry and direct way of reaching the administration building. Under the circumstances, we
feel that another sidewalk would be in order. Surely, if we could afford the seldom used walks to Concord Road
and Fraternity Court, we can afford a badly needed second walk to the northeast corner of Dormitory Row. The condition
of that part of the Campus throughout the past winter would indicate that the construction of such a walk is
worthy of immediate and serious consideration.

PARAGRAPHICS

The funny old Yow! is out again and nobody has laughed yet. The best issue of the year was the
first one. The good part about this first issue was that it was censored before it ever reached the readers.
We can’t understand why the Yow of all publications should attempt to belittle The Davidsonian. The Davidsonian has always tried
to cooperate with all the other publications on the Campus in every possible way. The crack it made about us
in the last issue probably was meant to be humorous, but being in the Yow! we, as usual, failed to
see the humor part of it.

Campus elections are being completed unusually fast this year. Three major ones have already been finished. The balloting has been
unusually close so far, and from all indications it looks like the offices will be pretty well distributed—a fact which
is highly desirable.

We were glad that our student body president mentioned in chapel the other morning the matter of thumping cigarette butts
in the local theatre. To be permitted to smoke during the matinee is an unusual privilege and the throwing of
lighted cigarette butts all over the theatre is not only an abuse of the privilege, but is absolutely unnecessary. Besides
the fire hazard that it creates there is almost the risk of physical injury to the person upon whom the
burning cigarette may chance to fall when it is thrown. If there must be smoking, the least we could do
would be to extinguish the fire from the cigarette directly under where we are sitting.

As far as we know, this is the first year that The Davidsonian has ever been printed on newsprint paper.
There has been much comment about this change, but in general we believe that it has met with approval. The
change was made primarily for the sake of appearance. Three years ago nearly every college newspaper was printed on book
paper, but now all but a very few of the exchange copies that we receive are on the newsprint type
of paper.

THE COLLEGIATE REVIEW

Students who receive all “A’s” at the University of California (Berkeley) are given a refund of $5 on their tuition
fee.

The student bar association at Ohio State University (Columbus) offers free legal aid to any student involved in a scrape
with the law.

Los Angeles firemen dread the first day of spring because it’s a custom at the University of Southern California to
ring the fire alarm on that day each year.

Richmond College (Va.) students can engage in Sunday sports this spring under a new ruling, but they can’t wear “shorts.”

COMPASSING the CAMPUS
By Scotty McLEOD

Davidson collegians scatter to all points tomorrow for a five-day relief from this hectic strain of school life. Between all
these quizzes, reviews and Junior Speaking dances we are entitled to a respite from work.

The spring Yow had one redeeming feature in the clever drawings of Overton, Callaway and Vowles.

Characterized by numerous spine-tingling thrills, Three Taps at Twelve had a large audience Friday night. Miss Orrie Steele, as a
nervous old maid, was one of the best natural imitations we've seen. Joe Dees, the unsuspected killer of “Old Man
Gotrocks” Hillier, was the nagged husband of Letitia Currie. Miss Currie drew our attention early in the story as a
most likely murderess, but the author thought otherwise and her husband was the guilty party. It was the best presentation
of the Red and Black Masquers that we've seen. Harpo Harlan, Fred Purnell and Fields Horine were aptly cast as
doctor, dope fiend, and lover, respectively.

Geddie Munroe takes the prize as chief worry-wart of the local campus. He causes John Siewers embarrassment by having WBT
Bustle-Busters dedicate silly songsTo the Phi Gam grid tackle. Siewers, his roommate, is sometimes awakened in his mid-afternoon nap by
some Charlotte radio announcer dedicating “When the Roll Is Called Up Yonder” to “Mr. John Siewers, who has used Crazy
Water Crystals for 34 years and never suffers a pain or sigh.” And now Geddie mails a postcard to Esquire,
a five-dollar per annum publication for men, and tells the circulation department to send Joe McNabb their product for a
full year. And signs Ed. Wooten’s name thereto. Wooten received the bill for the year’s subscription several days ago and
this announcement will probably be his first information as to the perpetrator of the evil deed. Wooten is on the
warpath at this point. If Munroe would write his personal memoirs and experiences of deviltry it would make interesting reading.
It is a violation of state law to indulge in joy-riding in front of Winthrop College, Rock Hill, S.C. But
Joe Johnston, Reg Harris, Harvey McConnell, and Tom Downie didn’t know about that law. And a state highway cop pulled
them over to the side of the road and warned the boys that flirting with Winthrop girls was no innocent
pastime in South Carolina. Even Davidson boys can’t get away with that. Bill Allsbrook was music-maker for the Carlson affair
in Greensboro Saturday night, which was attended by some thirty local socialites. Carolina and Davidson supplied a large part of
the dancing contingency.

INCIDENTAL INTERLUDES: Punjab Patterson is doing good business with records, radios, and clothes, carrying on a prolific correspondence with a
“get-acquainted” bureau and has established several promising friendships to date... Mal Grimes and a crew were in Rock Hill last
night looking for fine feminine faces... Recent rain has played havoc with numerous white shoes purchased from the Young Bros.
shoe store; Harry Morris, Gus Maynard, and Howard Dyer were waiting for the sun to shine so they can flash
their new foot-wraps.

WRONG GENERAL—Many legislative observers express the opinion that anti-sales tax forces showed a lack of judgment when they commissioned Representative
McDonald, of Forsyth, to lead the fight for substitute measures. They believe that Representative Lumpkin, of Franklin, could have done
a much better job as pilot of the McDonald-Lumpkin bloc. Lumpkin is a personable fellow and is credited with possessing
more horse-sense than the average “left-winger.” McDonald apparently rubs a lot of folks the wrong way and there be people
in these parts who say that fault has cost the sales tax substitutes considerable support.

Frank (Round-Man) Tucker is car-

OUR CONTEMPORARIES By. Enip Bowers

Columbia Plans Revised Course In Journalism

The School of Journalism of Columbia University, which has accepted undergraduates as candidates for a degree since 1912 under an
endowment by the late Joseph Pulitzer, will become a graduate school in the fall term. With this change, Columbia will
be the first graduate school of journalism in the country. Women of superior ability will be admitted to the school
in numbers proportionate to the opportunities which shall develop for them in the future in professional work. The graduates of
the proposed one-year course will receive a Master of Science degree.

Hard-Headed

In the medical museum of Harvard University is a crowbar, three feet, seven inches long, one and one-quarter inches in
diameter, weighing one-quarter pound, which has completely pierced the skull of a man. The man did not lose consciousness after
the accident and lived twelve years longer. The museum also has the cast of the man’s head.

Back to the Dark Ages

A “League for the Promotion of War” has been organized at the University of Iowa. This group believes that dictators
will be the salvation of the world and they are in direct opposition to a peace movement which has been
started on that campus. Huey P. Long (rotten tomatoes), the so-called Senator from Louisiana, has been invited to become the
leader (no one else could be expected to do this except morons and munitions manufacturers).

Art Kassell Signed for Taps Ball

Art Kassel and his Kassels in the Air will play for Clemson College’s annual Tap Ball on Friday, April 12th.
Ted Weems will play for V. M. I. Finals, Lombardo for the University of Virginia.

Whiter Than Snow

The Bulldogs at The Citadel will soon molt and emerge in gleaming white uniforms (until they hit a mud puddle)
that will add to the comfort of the Cadets as well as improve the appearance of the corps during the
spring and early fall.

The “Phlop” at W & L

The last edition of the W. & L. school paper was a humorous one called The Ring-Tum Phlop. It was
published at the Washington and Lee Country Club by the morons for the idiots of the college. One of the
articles stated that journalism students, in order to acquire newspaper background in Gotham, will meet at the Hollywood Restaurant, Broadway's
hotspot. They will stay there until closing time and then try to date eleven chorus girls. If they fail to
do so, they will go over to the Paradise Restaurant and try their luck there. Among the night clubs on
schedule, the last choice was the Cotton Club—deep in New York’s Harlem district.

Through State Capital Keyholes By Bess HINTON SILVER

RAIDERS—The folk who hope to take a part of the gasoline tax money to support things other than roads have
not, as yet, left Raleigh. They are hanging around in the hope that they can divert when the Legislature gets
in the throes of a deadlock on the biennial revenue measure. It looks very much like the General Assembly may
reach such a deadlock, so if you are interested in getting the money you pay in gas taxes expended on
your roads now is a good time to sit up and take notice.

TROUBLE—Some people who hang around the State Capitol for fun or more profitable reasons are of the opinion that the
House of Representatives is divided on major questions because of the Speakership race two years from now. Here are some
of the Representatives of the present House who are considered candidates for Speaker in 1936: Representative Sullivan, of Buncombe; Representative
Morphew, of Graham; Representative Cherry, of Gaston, and Representative Hoyle, of Guilford. All except Hoyle are chairmen of major committees
and you can figure the rest out for yourselves.

NEEDS DOUGH—Friends of Congressman Hancock think he is an ideal candidate to oppose Senator Josiah W. Bailey in the Democratic
primaries next spring. They believe the Oxford Congressman would listen to their pleas but for one thing—MONEY.

Co-Eds Boycott Chronicle

Asserting their rights of woman suffrage, the co-eds at Duke voted 540-140 Wednesday night that they were free and equal
to men and that they would boycott the following editions of The Duke Chronicle because of unequal representation on the
publication board. Evidence was uncovered that “votes were being swapped” (familiar?). It seems that due publicity was not given to
the election of the May Queen or some trivial matter.

Collegiania:

Lloyd Douglas, nationally famous author of Forgive Us Our Trespasses and Magnificent Obsession, will address the commencement exercises at Gettysburg
College... 7,000 barbers were sent out by the Soviet government to cut, scrape, etc. the hair of their fellow Russians
in the provinces... “The Eyes of Texas Are Upon You” was originally written as a joke... W. W. Cook donated
$10,000,000 to Michigan University for buildings—he is said never to have seen them, preferring to remember them from the architectural
drawings... Thiel College in Greenville, Pa., has an anti-tobacco scholarship... The University of Delaware Review is conducting a prevarication contest,
which will be won by the student who can prove that Baron Munchausen influenced his ancestry... Don Bestor will play
for V. M. I.’s Easter Hops.

From DAVIDSONIANS

CORR WAS NEWS... of Years Gone By

FIVE YEARS AGO

Bill Goodson is elected captain of basketball team for next year... “Y” officers lead highly interesting vesper service... I. R.
C. announces plans to bring Sir Hubert Ames here soon... Wildcats open baseball season with 7-6 win over Georgetown... Track
men to leave March 27 for meet with the University of South Carolina... Over two hundred alumni attend enthusiastic meetings
throughout the South... Baseball team announces plans for annual state-wide trip... Charlotte High wins state championship in track meet on
campus... Frosh find traditional “soph tree” and celebrate by burning “frosh caps”... Davidson tracksters star in University of West Virginia
games... Student body elects Dean Rusk president of Y. M. C. A.

TEN YEARS AGO

Nick Sappenfield is elected president of student body... Phi Beta Kappa elects four seniors to its membership... Twenty men make
“honor roll”... Sophs enjoy annual banquet in Queen City... Freshman track team wins high school invitational meet... Spring tennis tournament
announced... Fred Smith is elected editor-in-chief of The Davidsonian... Junior Speaking plans are announced... “Buck” Shaw is elected editor of
Quips and Cranks... Flake Laird is basketball captain-elect for next year... Oak Ridge licks ’Cats in two opening games... Jim
Pinkney is elected president of Junior class.

FIFTEEN YEARS AGO

“Greater Davidson” banquet is held in gymnasium... Results of “Million Dollar” campaign make appearance on campus... Sophomore class plans annual
banquet... Reno, the magician, amazes vast audience with astounding performances... Battalion accepts Wofford’s challenge to a rifle match... Christian Endeavor
elects new officers... Baseball team swamps Huntersville, 20-0... Watts opens Water Carnival by dousing passers-by; “Knights of Bath” festivate—Wets triumph...
Basketball letters awarded to seven... Oak Ridge to open season here Wednesday and Thursday.

Commencement Invitations
Fraternity Publications
1143 E. FOURTH ST.
Fine Printing
QUEEN CITY PRINTING CO.
Visiting Cards
Personal and Fraternity Stationery
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Representatives
K. D. WEEKS
JOE WADSWORTH
