THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 30, 1935

MEN CAGERS AND MATMEN RESUME PLAY OF SCHEDULES

In the Field of Sports

TRACKSTERS AND GRIDDERS PRACTICES BEGIN

McEver Remains

It was tuneful news to all Wildcat supporters when Coach Gene McEver announced, after several days of contemplation, which kept
us all a little uneasy, that he would return to Davidson as assistant football coach, favoring the Presbyterian institution over
his alma mater, the University of Tennessee. It seemed for a while that he would surely accept the Tennessee offer,
which promised considerably more, in a financial way, than he is now getting, but he very pleasantly surprised Davidson enthusiasts
when his decision was made preferring the Wildcat position. He is apparently quite happy over having settled upon this job,
and is now back at the Wildcat’s lair beginning to shape up his fourth edition of ball carriers for the
Davidson eleven. It will be no easy task this year with Johnny Mackorell, Joe Wingfield, and Dewey Hutchins, backfield mainstays
for the last three seasons, having finished their football careers with the 1934 schedule, but Coach McEver produced them and
I believe he will develop some able successors for these outstanding backs.

Much Publicity

This bit of negotiating that McEver carried on with the Tennessee officials brought nationwide publicity to Davidson football. It was
a question of interest to all American grid fans, who have followed Tennessee football teams during the past few years,
and are familiar with the celebrated career the genial Wildcat mentor had while in school there, and the fact that
he chose Davidson when he had a much more imposing offer from his own college has, no doubt, caused many
of them to wonder why? We can’t answer this, but it is our privilege to say that we are delighted
to see Coach McEver still a member of the Davidson coaching staff. It was mighty nice of him to get
all of the good publicity for Davidson, but it wasn’t exactly fair for him to get us all frightened by
almost accepting another job.

Soph Cagers

Five of the ten Wildcat basketeers, now campaigning in Georgia, are members of the Sophomore class. Three of these have
garnered regular berths on the quintet and the other two can fill in very nicely when necessary. Kenneth Knoor, Maurice
Peabody, and Bill Quick, the trio of second-year men, who played in every game this season, are surprisingly skillful and
well poised on the court. It is extremely heartening to know that the Wildcats are being delivered by the advent
of these Centennials from the basketball wilderness they have been in for the four or five seasons previous.

McPhail Ill

Sad news to the Davidson reached its ultimatum several days ago when they were told of Captain Fred McPhail’s having
to undergo an operation for appendicitis. This is the greatest blow that has come to Wildcat athletics this school year.
McPhail ran consistently first in the high and low hurdles for two seasons and at the close of the track
schedule last spring he was elected to captain the 1935 team. It is believed now, however, that he will be
unable to take part in any competition this year. Coaches Pritchett and Whittle had enough troubles without losing the services
of Captain McPhail, but they have been cheered by the return of Ras Evans, sprinter of the 1934 team, who
wasn’t in school last semester.

MEET DEVILS ON MAT SATURDAY

Coach Unger To Present Exhibition Match For Fans’ Information

FIRST BIG FIVE MATCH

Davidson Victorious In Every Match So Far This Year

Davidson's wrestling team will have its first match against collegiate competition, Saturday night at 7:30, when the Wildcats meet the
Duke grapplers at the local gym. Duke will bring a strong and well-balanced team to Davidson. There will be a
special attraction preceding the match for the benefit of those fans, especially ladies, who are not so familiar with the
fine points of wrestling. This will be an exhibition match, featuring Coach Unger and a member of the team, in
which they will demonstrate and explain various important holds and roles of the mat. There will be no admission charge
for ladies and a special section has been reserved for them. The Wildcats have already had six matches with strong
Y. M. C. A. teams throughout the state and have won them all by overwhelming scores. Coach Unger has developed
a skillful and aggressive team which promises to be a strong contender for the state championship. The team is fortunate
in having several experienced veterans who have proven their ability in previous years. These include Captain Charlie Fort, Leroy Blackwelder,
Lawrence Quarterman, Jim Hodgin, and Frank Owen. Sophomores Johnny Allen and Polk Moffett, newcomers to the mat, have shown up
well in the lightweight divisions and with a little experience they should develop into top-notch wrestlers. The following is a
tentative line-up of the Davidson team for the Duke match: Moffett, 118 lbs; Allen, 126 lbs.; Thompson or Parker, 135
lbs; Owen, 145 lbs.; Quarterman, or Shirey, 155 lbs.; Hodgins, 165 lbs.; Blackwelder, 175 lbs.; and Captain Fort, unlimited. On
the following Saturday, Davidson will meet V. P. I. This match has been arranged to precede the basketball game and
will offer a double attraction to sport fans in this section.

Kitten Quintet Shows Talent Despite Upsets

Promising talent has been noticed in the ’Kittens quintet despite their dropping three out of four engagements this season. The
Wildkitten loopers trounced the Paw Creek basketeers 18-10 after having dropped a 17 to 16 contest to the Paw Creek
team before the holidays. Captain Wade Barrow netted 6 points for honor score in the first encounter with Bill Kiesewetter
receiving high scoring honors in the second contest with 9 tallies to his credit. The ’Kittens suffered a severe drubbing
at the hands of the Carolina Tar Babies in the local gym, the score being 43 to 22, on January
26. The Carolina first-year cagers took the lead early in the contest and held high score throughout the game. Barrow
and Kiesewetter rang up five tallies each for the Davidson quint. Meroney, lanky Carolina fresh center, led the attack for
the Tar Babies with his long underhanded shots, scored ten points. The Charlotte Hot Point quintet eked out a 24
to 16 win over the ’Kitten basketeers. The Davidson freshmen started a spirited rally in the final period to toss
in 14 of their 16 points. Jack Overall, Kitten center, and Kiesewetter tossed six tallies each for Davidson in the
second half. Kiesewetter takes high scoring honors so far with 25 tallies while Barrow follows second with 19 points. Both
have captured positions at forward on Coach Grier Martin’s team. Bill Harris and Lawrence Reid, guards, show earmarks of being
available material for varsity competition next year.

Coaching Spring Gridders

They are left to right: Coach Gene McEver, Johnny Mackorell, ’34 grid captain; and Coach “Doc” Rivas, who started Monday
afternoon whipping into shape the 1935 Wildcat football candidates. “Boody” Wingfield, and Dewey Hutchins are also helping with spring practice.

SQUAD REPORTS FOR PRACTICE

Nearly Sixty Football Candidates Attend First Spring Practice

“Hep! Lunge through there! That's the way! Now try it once more—same thing.” And twenty-six potential Wildcat guards and tackles
climbed back to their feet as Coach Newton put them through a light workout Monday afternoon, as the winter football
season opened on Richardson Field. Farther down the field Coach McEver guided some thirty candidates for backfield positions through a
few running and passing plays. The 1935 Wildcat football team had its first practice, a short one, and showed, despite
the cold, much of the spirit which will carry them through next fall with colors flying. While nearly sixty boys
reported for this first workout of the season, several will be added to this number when winter sports are completed.
Notable among those who were kept away by other athletics are Windham, Cathey, Peabody, and Quick, all members of the
varsity basketball team. The coaches will be assisted in their work by nearly all the seniors who finished their careers.On
the gridiron Thanksgiving: Morgan, Mackorell, Burns, Hand, and Potter. Questioned concerning winter practice, Coach Newton said: “We will have to
make an almost entirely new team next year, due to losing our center, a tackle, three guards, and three starting
backs this year.” He refused to commit himself as to the showing made Monday, saying, “I'll tell you after the
first scrimmage.” After the second week of practice, games will be played just about every Saturday the weather permits. No
definite schedule of these games has been made, however. All men who are considering going out for the varsity squad
are urged to take part in the winter training, and all are assured that they will be given plenty to
do. Men who are transfers from other colleges, or who went to junior colleges, are eligible for this practice, and
for the team next year, provided they did not play varsity football at the college they previously attended.

Local Basketeers On Southern Trip
Laird Accompanies Team On Four-Day Basketball Trip

Coach Flake Laird and ten Wildcat cagers left Davidson Monday afternoon for a four-day trip through South Carolina and Georgia.
Monday night the Cats faced the Wofford Terriers at Spartanburg and then proceeded to Atlanta for contests on consecutive nights
with Oglethorpe, Atlanta “Y”, and The Jewish Progressive Club. The games with Oglethorpe and Wofford will be the second meeting
of these clubs with the ’Cats. Davidson was victorious in both previous contests, downing Wofford in an extra period game
and defeating the Petrels by the narrow margin of 41-38. Davidson has won six of the nine games played this
season, flashing an offense which has netted an average of more than 35 points per game. Duke, State, and Carolina
have handed the ’Cats their three defeats. The men making the trip are: Harris, Ross, Morgan, Peabody, Quick, Knorr, Porter,
Cathey, Yelverton, Windham, and Manager Ravenal.

Fraternity Basketeers Begin Tournament Mon.

The inter-fraternity basketball tournament will get under way Monday afternoon when the S. P. E.’s are scheduled to meet the
K. A.’s. This is the only game scheduled in the first round, the remaining seven teams having drawn byes. Practice
will be held the remainder of this week to allow these nine quintets to round into shape for this tourney.
At present captains for four of the quintets have been named. They are as follows: Phi Gams, Branton; Pi Kappa
Phi, Hunter; Kappa Sig, Loftin; and S. P. E., Jenkins. Play in the second round will find the Betas meeting
the S. A. E.’s and the Phi Gams playing the Kappa Sig in the upper bracket. In the lower bracket,
the Phi Delt’s will play the Pikas and the Pi Kappa Phi will meet the winner of the S. P.
E.-K. A. contest. No man is allowed to participate in basketball during his training in spring football and track.

CAT CINDERMEN BEGIN TRAINING
Pre-Season Meets Are Scheduled For Both Varsity And Freshmen

Varsity and Freshmen track men began training early this week in order to have teams in shape for two indoor
meets preceding the regular season. On muddy days when the regular track is not in running condition, the cindermen will
work out on a new 330 ft. wooden track erected on the intramural field. Special stress will be put on
pacing and timing while working on the boards. Besides permitting more regular workouts during the rainy season, the new track
will afford valuable practice for the two indoor meets. The team will enter one in Charlotte on February 25, and
another March 9 in the Tin Can at Chapel Hill. Both the above will be invitation meets with entrants from
several colleges. The freshman team will not run in Charlotte since the meet is an open one. The ranks of
the track team, already depleted by graduation, suffered another loss last week when Captain Fred McPhail underwent an appendicitis operation.
He will not be able to do any running this season. However, Ras Evans, stellar sprinter of last year, is
expected to return to school for the spring semester, this giving the team a good boost. Walter Dickson, star of
last year’s Freshman team, is looking good in sprints, broad jump, and high jump. John Newton and Dick Johnson are
expected to replace Cochrane on the shot and discus. On the Freshman squad, Wicker, Wilson, and Harrison show promise in
the hurdles. Other prospects are: Hogan, with the javelin; Graham, 440; Fort, on the pole vault; and W. Barrow in
sprints and hurdles.

The varsity schedule follows:
Feb. 25—Invitation Meet, Charlotte.
Mar. 9—N. C. Indoor Meet, Chapel Hill.
Mar. 23—Wake Forest, Here.
Apr. 6—Richmond U., There.
Apr. 13—Tennessee, There.
Apr. 15—Maryville, There.
Apr. 20—V. P. I., Here.
May 4—Duke U., Here.
May 11—State Meet, Chapel Hill.

Freshman Schedule:
Mar. 23—Wake Forest freshmen, Here.
Apr. 6—Richmond Freshmen, There.
Apr. 20—V. P. I. Freshmen, Here.
Apr. 26—P. C. Freshmen, There.
May 11—State Meet, Chapel Hill.

Attention! You Week-enders
Try The Little Pep
Save Your Money And Keep in Step

DAVIDSON QUINT DROPS GAME TO STATE
Wildcats Win Contests Over Catawba, Oglethorpe, And Lenoir-Rhyne
RAY REX LEADS RALLY
Felines In Tie With Deacons For Big Five Cellar

Coach Flake Laird’s quintet has shown fairly consistent improvement during the past few weeks of engagements, rising to their best
form to defeat Catawba, Oglethorpe, and the Lenoir-Rhyne Bears, while the major contest of the series was dropped to North
Carolina State, who proved a little too fancy for the local five.

N. C. State—Davidson
Led by the dynamic Ray Rex, the Red Terrors defeated the Wildcats 29-21 in a contest that proved disastrous in
more ways than one. Davidson opened up the fireworks with a five-point advantage, but the Raleigh combination soon launched a
counterattack to wipe out the deficit completely and move themselves in the lead for the remainder of the game. At
the half they countered a 14-10 advantage. The cats missed numerous open shots and failed on eight tries from the
charity stripe.

Oglethorpe—Davidson
Putting up a strong second-half rally, the Davidsonians rolled over the Oglethorpe basketeers by a 41-38 margin here in the
school gymnasium, although the Georgians led 21-18 at the half. Captain Charlie Harris of Davidson led his team in a
scoring spree after the intermission to run up a 10-point lead. However, the smooth working Petrels, led by their lanky
center, Copeland, soon cut the lead to within three points of victory when the final whistle blew. Peabody and Harris
were the outstanding stars for the ’cats.

Lenoir-Rhyne—Davidson
Playing a return contest with the Wildcats, the strong Lenoir-Rhyne quintet from Hickory were defeated for the second time in
a game that featured plenty of thrilling action. Morgan, tall Wildcat center, paved the way for a victory and put
the game on ice for the local quint, while Peabody and Quick, two Sophomore members of the team, aided materially
in the kill. Morgan accounted for 17 points against the Bears and received numerous favorable comments on his playing, particularly
in following up the shots.

Catawba—Davidson
Coming from behind in the last half, the Davidson Wildcats shot baskets at all angles to cop a six-point advantage
over the fast Catawba basketeers from Salisbury to win 36-30. During the first half the game was a see-saw affair
with each team on top at one time or another, but in the last period the cats, led by Morgan,
Ross, and Harris, connected to sew the game up. It was the second victory for the ’cats over the Indians.

Soccer Stars Practice For Intramural Games
Although the Intramural soccer teams did no practicing during the exam period, practice was resumed last Monday, and will continue
for the rest of the week. The captains of the class teams have been elected as follows: Seniors, Bob Coit;
Juniors, Arthur Haake; Sophomores, Kenneth Scott; Freshmen, Charlie Bixler. Schedule for next week: Monday, Seniors vs. Freshmen; Tuesday, Juniors vs.
Sophomores; Wednesday, Seniors vs. Sophomores; Thursday, Juniors vs. Freshmen; Friday, Seniors vs. Juniors; Saturday, Sophomores vs. Freshmen.

VICKS COUGH DROPS
Medicated with ingredients of Vicks VapoRub
Soothe irritated throats
