THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 30, 1935

Daring Frosh Team Accepts Challenge of All-Americans

All-Americans Meet Frosh Team Friday Afternoon on Richardson Field

The Freshman football team publicly accepted the challenge of the All-American squad with a flowery document which was read in
chapel on Friday morning, October 25. This statement was as follows:

“We, the members of the Freshman football squad of Davidson College, wish to express our unstinted admiration for those lowly
creatures who term themselves the All-Americans. And, as for accepting their challenge, YES.

“Realizing that it took untold courage and caused many sleepless nights for them to extend this noble but foolhardy challenge,
we do extend our heartfelt sympathy and also our wholehearted congratulations: sympathy for them in facing these insurmountable odds, and
congratulations for the daring of their challenge.

“We are cognizant of the fact that you scheduled this game only because you were under the impression that Johnny
Rumitback and two other football celebrities from Oshkosh School at Backwash, Michigan, were coming to our great school to play
for you. If, without these three stars, you still wish to carry out the original plan, let it be known
through your spokesman and captain, Bill Quick.

“All right, the die is cast, you have shown no mercy in your criticism of us. Therefore you must expect
none on the gridiron.

“In Captain C. C. C. Quick and his most ardent friend and partner, Maurice Peabody, we find a dangerous combination.
As for the play they have christened Heat—it ain’t so hot. And what is this we've heard about Tom Thurston
and his ‘snakey’ center sneak? We only hope they try it. As for K. K. K. Knorr and his pass
receiving—we think he’s a good cheerleader.

“We have given you a chance to withdraw your challenge, but you have refused like the noblemen that you are.

“We are sincerely yours until the zero hour—4:30 P. M., Friday.

Signed: The greatest and most powerful aggregation of football luminaries ever developed in a freshman class, THE FRESHMAN FOOTBALL SQUAD.”

Gamma Sigma Epsilon To Hold Open Meeting

Gamma Sigma Epsilon, honorary chemistry fraternity, held its first meeting of the year Monday night, October the eighteenth, at nine
o'clock, in the chemistry laboratory. Plans were made for the first open meeting and Dr. Olpen, of Charlotte, will be
the speaker. His topic will be “Television.” All of the Physics students are to be invited.

Invitations to membership are to be issued in the near future to the outstanding chemistry students. A delegate is to
be elected to represent the Gamma Sigma Epsilon chapter at the convention which will be held at the University of
Alabama in November.

Japan will have an opportunity to see American football this autumn. A squad of 34 former college players, from Tulsa
University, the University of Chicago and various Pacific Coast schools will play a series of ten games in seven Japanese
cities.

The board of trustees of Lafayette College is inviting members of governing boards of 35 leading universities and colleges of
the East to a conference in Easton, Pa., on April 26.

Lighting Fixtures
Electrical Appliances
Radios
M. H. GOODRUM & CO.
Cars for Rent
Gulf Gas and Oil
M. P. HENDERSON

Photographer To Take Group Pictures Monday

The photographer for the yearbook Quips and Cranks will return to the campus Monday, November 4, in order to take
additional group and individual pictures that he was unable to secure during his first stay. At this time he will
take pictures of all the social fraternities, the Scabbard and Blade, the Pan-Hellenic Council, and other honorary fraternities. Also, he
will get all the individual pictures that he missed before. Some further announcement will be made later as to the
time that these pictures will be taken.

Proofs of the pictures taken during the week of October 14 to 19 will be here today. Samples will be
on display in the parlor of Watts, and extra pictures will be available.

INGLE TALKS ON LIFE OF KAGAWA

McMullen Is In Charge Of Open Meeting Of Student Volunteer Group

The Student Volunteer group held a public meeting in the Social Center, Sunday afternoon, led by Dr. Walter L. Lingle,
who spoke on the subject of Kagawa’s life and work.

The meeting was opened by John McMullen, who read a passage from the Bible, and then led off in a
series of sentence prayers. After speaking briefly of the Student Volunteer Convention, to be held at Indianapolis, he turned the
meeting over to Dr. Lingle.

Dr. Lingle gave a summary of Kagawa’s life, beginning with his birth, leading up to his present work. Kagawa was
the son of a Geisha girl, and adopted by his father. His father died when he was quite young, and
he was adopted by his uncle, a wealthy businessman. His foster father, however, disinherited him when he became a Christian.
One of the secrets of Kagawa’s power and success is the fact that he is an omnivorous reader, Dr. Lingle
said. Another is his sincere aim to live absolutely by Christ's standards. He absolutely refuses to fight or resist, personally,
and does not believe in national resistance. Kagawa has organized a society whose goal is one million souls saved for
Christ in Japan. Kagawa, Dr. Lingle informed the group, would be at the Student Volunteer Convention to be held soon
at Indianapolis, Indiana. The furthest south he is intending to come in his tour will be Memphis. The meeting was
closed with the Mizpah benediction.

Future Ministers Are Invited To Conference

At a called meeting of the Ministerial Band, Sunday, Oct. 27, a letter was read inviting the Davidson Band to
join, and send delegates to a conference of all North Carolina Ministerial groups to be held Saturday, Nov. 2, at
Catawba College. Seven of the fourteen present signified their intention to go to Catawba, if possible. A discussion was then
held concerning a stunt to be given at Catawba. It was decided that all those intending to go to Catawba
should let the Secretary, Loch Vass, know definitely whether or not they could go, by Tuesday morning, Oct. the 29th.
The meeting was dismissed with the Mizpah Benediction.

Table tennis is rated at four times as fast as outdoor tennis.

DR. HOOD TELLS OF HIS HOBBIES

Workshop Contains Various Articles Made By the Genius Of Dr. Hood

Last week someone made the suggestion that some articles be written on the hobbies cultivated by our professors. We decided
to call first on Dr. Frazier Hood. In his study we sat cheek by jowl with a massive table, almost
big enough for playing ping-pong. We inquired whether it was an antique, but he told us that he had made
it from some plans given him by an F.R.S. when he was in England recently. It is constructed of beautiful
oak, not stained, but treated with potassium dichromate, which was then set with a linseed oil—a treatment which Dr. Hood
says he has not seen used elsewhere. The room is practically packed with other examples of his ingenuity—a small but
exquisite writing-cabinet made of cherry, under the window, and a dictionary stand that is not at all the ordinary lectern,
but has drawers that serve, one as a smoking cabinet, roomy enough, it looked, to grow the tobacco, and another
for his drafting tools. Why the drafting tools, you ask? It seems the inclined support for the lexicon is anchored
only by pegs; take it off with the atlas that reposes cosily beneath it, and there is the place for
a drawing-board. There is also a heavy wooden contraption that looked like a short, high kneeling bench from some ancient
English Church. Dr. Hood, with a pocket rule he carried, measured the original of this piece in the British Museum
after he had made the copy from an illustration, and he found that his guesses had proved exactly correct. On
the left-hand side as one enters the room there is an unusual exhibit—an icon, framed by a breath-taking piece of
intricate and skillful carving, forming a miniature portal supported by two fluted Corinthian columns. Trying to gather some words to
express our admiration, we were forestalled by his explanation that it was the work of Dr. Raynal of (Continued on
page 6)

Library Adds New Books To Shelves

The library has recently added several new books to its shelves, including fiction, biography, and politics. Notable among these is
the best seller, Green Light. In this book Lloyd C. Douglas portrays many interesting characters, including Dr. Newell Paige, a
young surgeon who has ruined a brilliant career to shoulder another’s blame. Phyllis Dexter, who thought the man she loved
had been responsible for her mother’s death and Dean Harcourt, who believed that love was a gift and hate a
disease, are among others who play their part in the dramatic sweep of “Green Light” to its happy ending.

Mary, Queen of Scotland and the Isles, by Stefan Zweig, tells a fascinating story of Mary and the great tragedy
of her life. The history of another great woman is told by Queen Marie of Roumania in her autobiography, Ordeal,
the Story of My Life. Regarding this book the New York Times said, “Never before has the curtain which screens
the life of royalty from the public gaze been more daringly elevated. Episode succeeds episode in a moving narrative of
events.The New Imperative, Walter Lippman discusses the "Permanent New Deal" in an effort to discover whether the many experiments of
the past six years are merely a response to a passing emergency, or whether they signify lasting changes in the
relation between government and the economic order. Vein of Iron, by Ellen Glasgow, deals with a modern story whose background
is the Great Valley of Virginia.

Commencement Invitations
Fraternity Publications
1143 E. FOURTH ST.
Lamont Brown Fine Printing
QUEEN CITY PRINTING CO.
Representatives
Visiting Cards
Personal and Fraternity Stationery
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
R. P. Morrow Town

A regional Red Cross meeting, of which Prof. F. K. Fleagle was chairman, was held in Gastonia, Oct. 23. The
meeting was also attended by Mrs. W. G. McGavock and Miss Maline Lyon, who are to have charge of the
Davidson Red Cross Drive.

Dr. C. M. Richards was the guest speaker at the open meeting of the As You Like It Club, Friday
evening at the Civic League Hall. His subject was "The Literature of the Old Testament."

Dr. and Mrs. Frazer Hood have their guests Mrs. Hood's sisters, Misses Jessie and Corine Wagner. They were the honor
guests at two informal teas given by Mrs. H. B. Arbuckle and Mrs. F. K. Fleagle.

The Thelemite Club held an open meeting Friday evening at the home of Prof. and Mrs. A. Currie. The speaker
was Prof. E. J. Erwin.

Dr. and Mrs. C. K. Brown announce the birth of a son, David Shelton, Friday, Oct. 25.

Dr. and Mrs. J. J. Withers left Saturday for Philadelphia, where Dr. Withers will attend a clinic for two weeks.

Mr. and Mrs. W. B. Hamrick announce the birth of a daughter, Sylvia Jane, Monday, Oct. 21.

The Twentieth Century Club held its regular meeting Friday afternoon at the home of Mrs. Claude Ives. Dr. W. P.
Cumming spoke on "The Modern Trend of the Novel."

Mrs. John Rhett left Wednesday for Washington, D. C., where she will visit friends for a short time.

Dr. K. G. Foreman was the speaker at the regular weekly chapel program Friday morning at the Davidson High School.
Coline Thies, daughter of Prof. and Mrs. Thies, underwent an operation for appendicitis Saturday morning in Charlotte.

Mrs. C. H. Hamilton and Mrs. T. W. Lingle attended the Synodical at Winston-Salem during the week.

Last Monday afternoon, the recently organized junior orchestra elected officers: Edwin Shewmake, president; Nina Jackson, secretary; and John Withers, manager.
Warren Babcock is the director.

MANY TICKETS MUST BE SOLD

In order to bring the concert series to Davidson it will be necessary for at least two hundred students to
procure season tickets. If more than this number purchase tickets it may result in a fifth concert being given. The
name of this concert in that case will be announced at a later date. During this week the students will
be called on in their rooms that they may purchase season tickets. Season tickets must be bought before October 28.

J. O. JONES, INC.
VISIT OUR College Department
You'll like the new Belted Back and Double Breast Suits. The most outstanding Catalina Sweaters and the Brown Suede Oxfords
at $9.00. They are made with leather and crepe soles.
J. O. JONES, INC.
Charlotte, N. C.

Three Sent To S.C.A. Meeting
Student Christian Association Meets At Mitchell

The Davidson "Y" sent three delegates, Hector McGeachy, Charlie Mauze, and Bill Bell, to a conference of the Student Christian
Association of the Synod of North Carolina, held at Mitchell College from Saturday to Sunday night. There were representatives present
from the Christian Organization of the Women's Presbyterian Colleges in N. C., including Peace, Flora-McDonald, Queens, and Mitchell. Davidson and
Presbyterian Junior College were invited to attend the conference as guests. The theme of the conference was "Christian Youth Building
a New World," and all discussion was centered around this theme. On Saturday night the delegates held a discussion on
"Christian Youth in the College." The attitudes, situations, and activities that develop Christian personality during one's college years were discussed
fully. The discussion Sunday was "Vision of the New World." Sunday afternoon the conference was closed with a forceful talk
by Wiley.

Classical Fraternity Holds Initial Meeting

Eta Sigma Phi, national honorary classical fraternity, held its first meeting of the year at eight o'clock on October 14,
in the Social Center. A discussion of plans for the coming year was the principal object of last week's meeting.
The meeting was presided over by J. M. Walker, Jr., president of the chapter. K. M. Scott, treasurer, gave a
financial report to the fraternity. It was decided to elect a new corresponding secretary at the next meeting as E.
W. Orion, the student who filled this office last year, had not returned to school this fall. The meeting held
Monday night was a brief one, but the president expressed to the members present a desire to make this year
a more active one for the fraternity. The fraternity holds its regular meetings every second and fourth Monday night at
the Social Center. Eta Sigma Phi is a national honorary fraternity for those students interested in Greek and classical literature.
To be eligible for membership in this fraternity a student must have had two years in either Greek or Latin
and have shown an interest in the classics. There are at present about twenty members in this fraternity at Davidson.
New members will not, in all probability, be selected before this spring it was stated, although some may be chosen
this fall.

CINEMATIC COMMENTS
DAVIDSON THEATRE

Wednesday, Oct. 30
WAY DOWN EAST
This picture advances Henry Fonda another step of the way toward stardom. Rochelle Hudson looks good in a Janet Gaynor
role. It is a down-home story with a new slant and excellent acting by two rising stars of the cinema.

Thursday and Friday, Oct. 31-Nov. 1
I LIVE MY LIFE
A wealthy playgirl, Joan Crawford, while yachting in the Grecian islands, leads a young archaeologist, Brian Aherne, into romance for
a lark. Later, after he chases her to New York, she finds she is in love with him and he
is not left waiting at the altar. What the picture lacks in plot is made up by the acting of
the leading characters and support of Frank Morgan and Aline MacMahon. If you like Crawford and gorgeous photography, go.

Saturday, Nov. 2
THIS IS THE LIFE
Little Jane Withers plays the orphaned backstage waif who is adopted by a pair of crooks, who exploit her on
the stage with success and live royally on her money. She runs away with Johnnie McGuire, a supposed renegade. They
meet up with Sidney Toler and Francis Ford and many amusing and harrowing situations arise. Sally Blane supplies the love
interest.

Monday and Tuesday, Nov. 4-5
BROADWAY MELODY OF 1936
"Broadway Melody" is a new top in musical comedy. It features Jack Benny, Eleanor Powell, and Robert Taylor. This one
gets top rating in any review or picture-of-the-month list. Powell dances her way to success in this and Robert Taylor
proves that he has the makings of a star also. Jack Benny and Sid Silvers furnish comedy which is really
good. You will hear tunes like "Broadway Rhythm," "You Are My Lucky Star," and others, all of which promise to
be hits. June Knight, Francis Langford, and Una Merkel lend their talents to this production also. This musical has more
plot than you usually find in them.

CORRECT
Every hair cut that we do is done with a great deal of interest because doing a thing right is
our greatest advertisement.
NORTON'S BARBER SHOP

MONEY NO OBJECT
IF IT'S A QUESTION OF HEALTH

Since 1799 thousands of people have regained their normal health after years of suffering from stomach troubles of all types,
such as constipation, indigestion, gas, and sour stomach which are the basic factors of such maladies as high blood pressure,
rheumatism, periodic headaches, pimples on face and body, pains in the back, liver, kidney and bladder disorder, exhaustion, loss of
sleep and appetite. Those sufferers have not used any man-made injurious chemicals or drugs of any kind; they have only
used a remedy made by Nature. This marvelous product grows on the highest mountain peaks, where it absorbs all the
healing elements and vitamins from the sun to aid HUMANITY in distress. It is composed of 19 kinds of natural
leaves, seeds, berries, and flowers scientifically and proportionately mixed and is known as LION CROSS HERB TEA. LION CROSS HERB
TEA tastes delicious, acts wonderfully upon your system, and is safe even for children. Prepare it fresh like any ordinary
tea and drink a glassful once a day, hot or cold. Try it and convince yourself with our money-back guarantee.
One Week Treatment $1.00. Six Weeks Treatment $5.00. If you are not as yet familiar with the beneficial effects of
this natural remedy LION CROSS HERB TEA, try it at once and convince yourself. If not satisfactory money refunded to
you. In order to avoid mistakes in getting the genuine LION CROSS HERB TEA, please fill out the attached coupon.

Lio-Pharmacy, Dept. 1180 Second Ave., N. Y. City, N. Y.
Gentlemen: Enclosed find $........ for which please send me........ treatments of the famous LION CROSS HERB TEA.
NAME.................................................
ADDRESS.............................................
CITY.......................... STATE...............
