THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 16, 1935

HONOR ROLL
Warden, Johnson, Hunt, and Harrison are Frosh stars as picked by “Walt” Dickson.

Sports Afield

HONOR ROLL
Pittman and Johnston picked exclusively for DAVIDSONIAN by Jake Wade.

BY HARRY KUYKENDALL

Although some may be dubious as to whether the Davidsonian is important enough to recommend itself for theft, the fact
remains that someone thought so and thus Felix finds himself now obligated to contend with the turmoil of the past
two weeks on the local front. In order to get a star's own viewpoint on the game, Felix hurried to
the dressing room after the contest to interview Don McAllister, Clary, Robelot, and Fat Porter. South Carolina's coach, by the
way, stripped off his coat and made himself comfortable for the verbal combat that Felix managed to essay. After agreeing
that Pittman for Davidson and Clary for South Carolina were the afternoon's stars, Don also added that Lafferty looked good,
although he expressed himself with the words “nice boy, nice boy.” McAllister added that he “expected the Gamecocks to have
a good team next year. Clary certainly did look good today. Was he at his best?”

The genial mentor replied before securing his release from Felix. Whether Clary was at his average game or not, Felix
contends and is seconded by many men in the know that Clary is one of the best on the gridiron.
On the other hand, Clary's right arm flying for South Carolina again proved its worth and we're almost inclined to
believe it now, although present circumstances do not present an opportunity for practical application. Carolina, now somewhat concerned by the
ineligibility of Sniscak, plans to have an investigation in hopes that the famous guard might be cleared, according to the
“Daily Heel.” Maryland officials of the University called attention to the fact that Sniscak had played with Catholic U, withheld
pending investigation. Despite such setbacks, replacements, both in quality and quantity, are at a new high. Several men conveyed the
impression that Chapel Hill will take up Mecklenburg Saturday. Cathey, a star, believes Carolina can well take care of herself.

(Continued on Page 6)

TENNIS
Defeats Bronston Kenney in Hard Fought Five Set Match

KENNEY’S LEAD FADES
Lewis Fights Uphill Battle to Win Close Contest

By the narrowest of margins, Carlyle Lewis last week retained his position as top-ranking tennis player of the college in
a bitterly fought five-set match with Bronston Kenney, in the fall tournament finals. The veteran Lewis had to use every
shot at his command to turn back the hard-stroking sophomore by set scores of 1-6, 6-3, 4-6, 6-3, 7-5. Fighting
an uphill battle the entire way, Lewis had to come from behind at 2-3 in the last set, and four
times found himself with match point against him. The match, started Tuesday afternoon, was carried over until Wednesday with the
sets standing at two all, when darkness prevented the playing of the last set. On this first day, Kenney jumped
to an early lead by winning the first set, 6-1; dropped the next one at 6-3, and came right back
into the lead by winning the third set at 6-4. Lewis tied the score by getting another 6-3 decision as
darkness intervened. When play was resumed the following day, Kenney again got away to a commanding lead of 3-2, but
at this point, his opportunities to put the match away slipped, and Lewis managed to break through and win the
deciding set. Lewis’ usual steady head and well-placed chops pulled him through. Kenney’s stroking looked good and gave evidence of
making him a valuable factor on this year’s team.

The match came as the climax of a tournament which was run off with few upsets. Lewis advanced to the
finals without the loss of a set, experiencing his hardest difficulty in the second round when Bill Bell extended one
set to deuce before succumbing, 6-3, 7-5. Lewis’ other victims were Leonard Woodward, 6-2, and, in the semi-finals, George Hornbeck,
6-3, 6-2, 6-0. Kenney lost but six games in his first two matches, with Wade Boggs and Charley Elder, respectively,
but had some trouble with Harry Frampton, his teammate on last year’s frosh team, before winning 6-3, 6-2. Frampton had
previously been responsible for two mild upsets in beating Carl Carlson and Jake Morrow, seeded three in the tournament, in
two close three-set matches. There were twenty-eight entries in the tournament, which serves to get a definite line on prospects
for next year's varsity team.

LEWIS WINS ANNUAL TOURNAMENT TENNIS ACE

Pictured above is Carlyle Lewis, Captain of the Tennis team, who defeated Bronston Kenney to annex the fall Tennis Title.

TOUCH FOOTBALL NOW IN FINALS
Betas, Pikas, and Phi Gams Left In Fraternity Competition

The Betas nosed out the Kappa Sigs in the first game of the third round of the current inter-fraternity “touch
football” competition, 6-0. Joe Thompson, Tom Morrison, Charlie Elder, and Charlie Thompson starred for the Kappa Sigs while the key
men of the victorious Betas were Bob Johnston, George Tipton, Ned Norris, Dave Stocks, and Wilbur Edwards. The Pikas opened
their season by returning the opening kick-off for a touchdown which finally figured in their 12-6 victory overthe S. P.
E.’s. Ken Knorr, Walter Dickson, Bill Moore, and Sam Milton led the Pikas with Charlie Siple, Ray Gilks, Henry Lyons,
and Martin Barnett outstanding for the S. P. E. team. The Kappa Sigs intercepted a pass and scored and thus
nosed out the S. A. E.'s 6-0. The Kappa Sig stars were Hank Loften, Charlie Thompson, Tommie Morrison, and Charlie
Elder, and S. A. E. luminaries included Lamont Brown, Tom Hackney, Harris Barksdale, and Max Brittain. The Phi Gams eliminated
the Pi Kappa Phi’s by the same score of 6-0. The Phi Gam stars were Lawrence Reid, E. J. (continued
on Page J).

O. J. JONES, INC.
HART SCHAFFNER and MARX FINE BLUE RIDGE HOMESPUN SUITS

KITTENS SCORE ON FUMBLE TO TROUNCE TIGERS
Warden, Stellar Lineman Lost to Wild Kittens With Fractured Leg
IVERSON, BROWN STAR
Rough Game Featuring Injuries and Fumbles

In a knock-down, drag-out affair, the Davidson Wildkittens out-substituted the Darlington Tigers to the tune of a 6-0 victory for
the Kittens. The game was a long mass of fumbles and injuries for both teams. The Kitten score came on
one of these many fumbles. Hicks had just gotten off a nice punt that set the boys from Rome back
in their own yard. Then on an end run, a Darlington halfback was tackled on the Darlington 24-yard stripe by
flankmen Ned Iverson and fumbled right into the arms of “Little Six” Johnston who, surrounded by Kitten interference, raced across
the double lines for the lone score of the game. Harrison, Kitten halfback, failed in an effort to drop-kick the
extra point.

Warden, stellar tackle, was among those who were injured in the Davidson massacre. His injury, unfortunately, proved to be the
most serious of the afternoon. He was forced to leave the game early in the third quarter with a broken
leg. The Kittens have lost Warden, one of their best linemen. Harrison, a little 140-pound stick of dynamite, got off
two nice runs—one for forty and another for 15. “Boose” Brown was given the ball twice and each of the
two times, he snake-hipped his way down the field for 15 yards. Hunt, the Kitten’s “Galloping Ghost,” got away for
several nice gains. The mainstays for the Darlingtonians were McColl and Snelling; for the Kittens, Gastiger, Harrison, Hunt, Iverson, and
Abbell.

Despite the exceptional heat that prevailed and was not conducive to good football, both teams played hard football. Friday’s clash
brought what looked like the roughest football ever played on Richardson Field to Davidson, if we're to judge by the
number of time-outs, substitutions, and injuries.

Cochran Begins Plans For Golf Tournament

“These are busy days on the Davidson Golf Course,” says Major F. M. Cochran. “Our best (and worst) marksmen are
firing away daily. Ethiopia? No, just shooting for scores upon which to base handicaps, plus, of course, for what fun
and frivolity may be had in addition.” Each man interested in the golfing competitions must play a certain number of
rounds and then hand in his score to the golf committee. The members of the committee then determine how many
strokes above par each man is to be allowed, the idea being to give star and dub alike the same
chance to win.

The first event will probably be a “flag tournament.” Each player will be given a small flag bearing his name.
He shoots his allotted number of strokes and places his flag where his ball lies after his last stroke. The
owner of the flag farthest from the starting point wins.

Johnston, star of Saturday’s contest with the Gamecocks, is one good reason why that thin red line will hold against
the Tar Heels.

ALL-AMERICANS DEFEATED 12-6
Campbell Tops Wildcats During Fourth Quarter With Passing Attack

Junior College triumphed over the Davidson “B” team last Friday by a 12-6 score when the Wildcats invaded their territory.
Touchdowns were scored by the Orange and Black team while “Chubby” King ran 60 yards for Davidson's lone tally. The
All-Americans were playing the first of four games scheduled for the season and hope to better the 0-0 tie result
of the game played here last year. However, a series of passes in the first quarter gave Campbell an early
lead. The Wildcats had difficulty with the plays on (Continued on page 6).

Twenty Frosh Netters Enter Tennis Tourney

Twenty members of the class of '39 are participating in the freshman tennis tournament, which began last Monday afternoon, under
the direction of Manager Jim Knox. This tournament differs pleasantly from the Varsity tournament in that no entrance fee is
required, each player furnishing his own balls. It is too early to give any indication as to the outcome of
the tournament, but all players started from scratch, there being no seeded positions. The main purpose of the competition is
to give a line on the ability of the players for use in conducting the tournament in the spring, Knox
said Sunday night.

Those who have entered the tournament are: Tom Abbott, O. V. Armstrong, Ed Cloyd, Wesley Coghill, Joe Craver, Thomas Dunn,
Jack Graves, Sam Hemphill, Grant Johnston, Ken Lawson, Pete Marchant, Bill Marquess, Ned Morris, Wilson Northcross, Raymond Pittman, Bill Pryer,
Stitt Robinson, Perry Sloan, Fred Warren, Locke White.

WILDCATS TO MEET CAROLINA SATURDAY
Veteran Players to Make Appearance Here With Invading Tar Heels
CATS IN GOOD SHAPE
Tar Heels Hampered By Injuries and Ineligibility

The Davidson Wildcats will converge upon the gridiron this coming Saturday, October 19, to meet the highly praised North Carolina
Tar Heels, in a game to be played on Richardson Field at 2 P.M. The game will be the fifth
for the Davidson team in the “Big Five” conference and will be the first “Big Five” game the Tar Heels
have played. The North Carolinians have displayed one of the best teams in the south, and have also had their
name suggested as a likely candidate for the Rose Bowl competition.

The Tar Heels will appear on the field with many players who have received All-American recognition. Some of these men
are Dick Buck, Jim Hutchins, and Don Jackson. Each of these men has been poison to the opponents of the
Tar Heels. Jim Hutchins, a sophomore from Winston-Salem weighing 190 pounds, is playing the position of fullback. He played an
outstanding game against Maryland, making considerable yardage every time he carried the ball. Don Jackson, expert passer and kicker of
Sanford, Florida, is ordinarily a left half, and Jackson's passing and running were particularly effective against Maryland, which is believed
to be the best of his performances. Along with these stars is Herman Snyder, outstanding star of the Tar Heel
(Continued on page 6).

Hints to Freshmen...

One of the best ways of imitating a seasoned and experienced man, when you’re in Charlotte, is by making Hotel
Charlotte your headquarters. It’s an old Davidson custom—and we like it. Eat in “The Tavern,” of course.

Stripes... FOREVER SMART

Haven't you noticed how much in demand striped patterned fabrics always are? They're in good taste season in—season out! Particularly
good in double-breasteds and since this is a double-breasted season, stripes will get a big play. For colorful, different stripes
choose an Under-Grad. $27.50 $29.50

Tate-Brown Co.
College Shop, Third Floor
