THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 20, 1935

The Davidsonian
Founded by the Class of 1915
Associated Collegiate Press
1934 Collegiate Digest 1935

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Printed by the QUEEN CITY PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate year.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879.

ARTICLES FOR PUBLICATION must be in the hands of Managing Editors by 4:00 o'clock p.m. Letters to the Editor are
welcome, but all communications intended for publication must be signed.

Lamont Brown Editor-in-Chief
R. P. Morrow, Jr. Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
Jim Morton Managing Editor
Howell Overton Managing Editor
Harold Sugg Managing Editor
Daymond Turner Managing Editor
John Winn Sports Editor
Harry Kuykendall Associate Editor
Martin Barnett Associate Editor
Harvey Glass Associate Editor
Paul Harlan Associate Editor
Tom Marchant Associate Editor
John Walker Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
Charles Mauze Circulation Manager
Hilt Swonk Circulation Manager
Bob Avant Circulation Manager
Hoke Robinson Advertising Manager
Billie Hill Collection Manager
Bill Deyerle Assistant Business Manager

Monday, May 20, 1935

HAIL AND FAREWELL!

A few more days of classes, a brief period of examinations, and then the members of the class of ’35
will step from the commencement platform to return no more as students. To say that they will be missed is
unnecessary at this time, but we who are left may well pause for a moment to pay tribute to our
departing Seniors and the standards they have left for us. For these men brought us leadership in many lines of
student endeavor—outstanding in athletics, scholarship, publications, social service, and a constructive program of student government, the loss of such men
cannot be lightly turned aside.

But for them, commencement, as the name signifies, should mean only a beginning. The transition is that from student to
alumnus, once a Davidson man, always a Davidson man. And though he may never come back to the familiar campus,
each is bound to his alma mater with enduring ties. May their service to the college as alumni equal their
leadership as undergraduates! Leaders, friends, and fellow classmates, we salute you. The warm friendships and close associations that you have
made possible will never be forgotten. With every sincere wish for your future success and happiness, we bid you “God-speed!”
and send you on your way!

AN EXPLANATION

Due to a strike which occurred in the plant of the Queen City Printing Company, publishers of The Davidsonian, it
was impossible for them to print the paper last week. Consequently, it was printed by an inexperienced organization, which made
innumerable mistakes, many of them being quite embarrassing to the staff of The Davidsonian. Therefore, the staff wishes to express
its regrets to anyone who might have been offended by what went into that issue of the paper, and you
may rest assured that none of it was intentionally done. This issue was handled by the proper company, but since
strike conditions still existed when the paper was regularly due, it was impossible to get it out before today.

CAPTAIN NORTON GOODIER PRITCHETT

When headlines of North Carolina newspapers carried an announcement that Captain Pritchett had accepted the Athletic Directorship of the University
of Virginia, the sight of them shocked all Davidson to a feeling of emptiness. It caused us to realize that
soon a bright and shining star that has graced Davidson’s crown for seven short years would ere long be casting
its rays elsewhere, finding its modest but ever glowing way into the hearts of students and friends at Virginia as
it did on our own campus.

In every part of Davidson life, we see some helpful touch that has been made by Captain Pritchett. He understands
college students as few men do, and so his advice and assistance have been rendered in a rarely known fashion,
and to fill the gap that his departure will leave at Davidson will be like finding a Joshua to succeed
a Moses. Even though the remaining days of the actual presence on the Davidson campus are few, his manly character,
modest conduct, and clean straightforward living have been indelibly impressed upon the hearts and minds of every Davidson man who
knows him and has learned to appreciate his pattern for manliness. As he leaves us, we wish for him a
happy and successful sojourn in his new surroundings, and remind him of an undying welcome that awaits him at Davidson.

FOUR YEARS OF WORK AND PROGRESS

It is difficult to write a survey of a class without focusing undue attention on those particular fields in which
the class has been prominent, and overlooking certain phases of college life in which success has not been so readily
noticeable. In reviewing briefly the history of the class of 1935, the writer will endeavor to discuss as wide a
range of activities as possible in which the members of the class have participated.

Let it be said by way of introduction that the class of 1935 upon entering in September, 1931, numbered over
two hundred fifty, having the distinction of being the largest class to enter Davidson to that time. Since the initial
registration, the enrollment has decreased to one hundred twenty, which shows an unusually good proportion of men remaining in college
for the entire four-year period.

The class of 1935 claims no little distinction in the field of scholarship. The fact that fifty percent of the
class is represented on the Dean’s List serves as an indication of the scholastic attainments of the class at large.
As to the records of individual men, it will be remembered that sixteen men were honored by membership in Phi
Beta Kappa, this number representing the full quota allowed by this society. In the past, it has been seldom that
the quota set up has been filled. Two individuals in the class deserve recognition for extraordinary scholastic achievement, one having
maintained an average for the three and one-half years completed of above ninety-seven, and the other having a record of
a fraction above ninety-eight.

There are fields of activity in which achievement often goes unnoticed and in which reward is not sought through publicity.
The Y. M. C. A. has done notable work both on and off the campus, much of which has passed
unobserved by those not directly in contact with the religious work. The religious leaders of the Senior class deserve much
credit for their unselfish work in promoting the religious life on the campus and in conducting religious services off the
campus in the name of the college. Throughout the history of the class, a renewed interest in debating has resulted
in the building up of an enviable reputation for Davidson in the forensic field, a line of service in which
there is little reward.

The record of the class of 1935 in athletics will not be discussed at length. It is necessary only to
mention those who have made good in their athletic endeavors; the many who have made varsity letters regularly every season.
Their contribution to the college is well-known. But there is a tendency to overlook the men who have not made
the teams, the men who have been on the squad for four years, making it possible for the teams to
attain the levels of success which have been theirs. The number of varsity letters and service letters awarded prove that
the class of 1935 had a large representation in both of the above groups.

Lest it appear that the writer attributes the record of the class entirely to the merit of the individual members
of the class, let it be said that the class has drawn heavily on two sources of inspiration. In the
first place, the men who were leaders when the class of 1935 was in its most impressionable stage, were admired
and respected for their admirable record as a class. The class of 1932 had a profound influence on the then
newly-formed class of 1935. In the second place, the class is indebted to the men in the class who have
been eminent for their ability in various departments from the beginning. They, as leaders, have had a marked influence on
others whose development had been slower but more complete because of the high ideals of the leadership which they have
respected.

On looking back over the past four years, a senior naturally feels that his class has made a contribution to
the institution. But overshadowing this idea is the feeling that every man has received during his college course certain benefits
which are incapable of being repaid. Certain associations, principles, ideals, and the intangible spirit which is so much more pronounced
as the end of the college course approaches, have had their indelible effect on the life of every Davidson man.
Also accompanying the feeling of having made some contribution to Davidson is the feeling of having lost many opportunities and
of having failed to attain certain goals and standards. It is of course true that as a class and as
individuals we have made mistakes and have failed in certain undertakings, but these failures can be turned into stepping stones
to future success. If the members of the Senior Class can continue in the large measure of fortune and success
which they have enjoyed at Davidson, the future can hold for them nothing but the brightest of prospects.

E. F. M.

DAVIDSON OFF THE RECORD
By Harold Sugg

RECOLLECTIONS FROM ANTIQUITY

The Davidsonian. As this column appears a week after being written, due to the printers’ strike, there will be nothing
new under The Davidsonian. Last week's perpetration was hand set and was so funny that the efforts of this column
were outclassed by the paper itself. It was not due, as unfortunately prophesied, to Agnes Scott May Day.

SNAKES AS NUMEROUS AS HILL-BILLY PROGRAMS

Snakes? If Saint Patrick were to walk through this campus a new Student Body would have to be shipped in.
Bill Deyerle gets up at 4:30 in the morning to late-date a Phi Delta gal and was Bobby Peters powerless?
Deyerle says he is number 9 now instead of 10. Bondurante also reports the snaking business as doing fine. Gus
Maynard meets his feminine friend in the early hours and later in the day Don Bailey and Copperhead DuBose take
the young friend away. And was Gus Aggie-vated? Tom Downie would walk a mile for a camel, BUTTON, BUTTON, WHO’S
GOT A NICKEL?What Davidson doesn’t need is a good nickel telephone. The system now is illegal because it is a
slot machine on the gambling plan. If she’s in you win and if she’s out you have to find another
nickel. Seriously, why not install regular telephones at the Student Store, Tut Davidsonian Office, and in one or two of
the dormitories? For long distance calls, pay telephones would still be used. How about it?

LOCAL MOHAMMEDANS MAKE PILGRIMAGES
Salisbury increasingly becomes the mecca of local socialites. Gordon Smith generally heads the trek and is often followed by Walt
Dickson and Teal Rogers. Buddy Robinson, Bill Harris, Bill Young, and Jack Somerville were also hunting. There’s gold in them
Rock Hill every day in the week. Prospectors Henry Eve, Mitchell, and Bobby Arrowsmith traveled over for some reason or
other on Wednesday. Bill Atwater is reported to be running for Mayor of Fort Mills, political speaker that he is.
Sunday saw, among others, Matt and Joe Alderman, John Partridge, Herb Doctor Willis, and Bill Stuckey. Joe Hunter did not
go to Rock Hill Sunday. We suspect that several of the fraternities had house parties (The Greeks have a name
for them) over the past weekend. Only the Phi Deltas will admit it. At the power lake near Statesville about
60 brothers and sisters report a great time. “Tarzan” Jim Morrison supplied the entertainment. The Kappa Sigma, Kappa Alpha, and
Phi Gam lodges—so we would have heard—entertained the girls this weekend.

THE FRIENDLY COW, ALL RED AND WHITE
A most innocent-looking bovine caused a lot of amusement Saturday week. Wandering behind the dormitories, poor Bossy was captured and
an attempt was made to coax her into “Weeny” Matthews and Lamont Brown's room. Bossy refused. Perhaps after hearing Lamont
shoot the Bull she feared to venture therein. The Y. M. A. A. radio made a regretful departure last week.
Too much hot music being played at the “Y.”

SAFELY THRU ANOTHER YEAR
After the house parties, a period of water fights, campus decorating and window busting, examinations, and graduation, then we end
the grind. No more bull sessions, horseshoe contests, or reviews. Also no more columns. As Euclid Fant says: “It’s an
ill wind—.” Somebody said this thing ought to be called “Dictated But Not Read” and somebody else said it ought
not to be Off the Record but Off the Paper. Oh, well.

MAY DAY: Reg Harris, John Anderson, Gordon Smith, Don Stewart, Bobby Burns, Rig Dees, and Ed Holt went to see
the May Pole festivities in Greensboro. Accommodating Gus never misses one. SAYS Heman: All’s Wells on the Fayetteville front. CAROLINA:
Skinny Stevens, Pete McKnight, and Charley Thompson were among those at the Junior Speaking exercises. COTTON BALL: saw Paul Pittman
escorting and Baxter Yarborough, Bob Orr, and Cokey Branton looking on. DO YOU: want to get up in time for
classes? See Blue Boy. DO YOU: want to become as strong as Charles Atlas? See Doctor Kornegay and P.M. CHARLOTTE:
was the scene of a very delightful dance given by Bobby and Jack Lafferty and their PIKA brothers.

OUR CONTEMPORARIES
POLITICS... Only scattered opposition is anticipated by the two major political parties at W. and L. in the imminent class
elections. Law school balloting is the only voting not affected by party line-ups... While The Technique is all set up
about “more dirty pool” in their recent student council elections. Apparently, the Georgia engineers take their crooked politics seriously!

PETS... Fifi, “the white cat that persists in jumping on the tables of tenement 17” at the U. of S.
C., consumed three drinks of South Carolina corn and then... At last report, Fifi was suffering a hangover... And at
Gettysburg, members of Kappa Delta Rho sadly interred Ripper, the canine who had gained fame by his frequent appearances in
the college chapel. The house flag was flown at half-mast, and military ceremonies were used.

AND THE DANCE... Kay Kyser will return to play for annual Commencement Dances at the University of the South... The
Clemson Tiger announces that Ozzie Nelson has been signed for finals... Incidentally, Sewanee students will have no spring holidays next
year. It is hoped this move will ensure greater support for the German Club's Easter dances.

“SOMETHING ABOUT A SOLDIER”
V. M. I. cadets took part in a reenactment of the battle of Chancellorsville recently. The cadets represented the Confederate
troops, and six hundred U. S. Marines took the part of the Union forces. The Southerners practiced the “rebel yell”
assiduously, so their barracks may sound like Davidson during a concert by our local hog-callers... Freshmen at P. C. will
drill themselves their last week. “Every man his own general,” blurbs the Bluestocking.

HONOR SYSTEM... The honor system lives at Washington and Lee, according to another informant. An alumnus of ten years standing
returned for a visit recently and claims that a cigar butt he had thrown under his bed was still there.
With a visit to Winthrop, a Clemson columnist completes his inspection tour of neighboring women’s colleges and lists his findings
for the benefit of his readers. Winthrop is the strictest, G. W. C. the most liberal of these institutions he
infers... During the month of May, 1934, there were 1,088 guests served in the Randolph-Macon dining room... Winthrop, too, has
its gum chewers. Some industrious prankster put chewing gum in all the keyholes of North... Says the Erskine Mirror: Some
college boys like ties with dots in ‘em, suits with stripes in ‘em, and letters with checks in ‘em... A
large number of Georgia students earned the name of “sucker” when they fell for a glib-tongued salesman with many promises
and a seven dollars and a half suit. Apparently, the boys are dissatisfied with their purchases... Wake Forest College is
completing a “Know Everybody Drive”... A non-fraternity party has been organized for the student body elections at Roanoke. Its campaign
was successful... Tulane sapient suggests that various classes hire stenographers to take notes for them, thus relieving them of the
responsibility of attendance on lectures.

Military Department Busy Selecting Staff
The R.O.T.C. department of Davidson College is nearing the completion of its selections for next year’s staff. It is reported
that Major Rhett, Captain Cochran, Captain Seifert, and Sergeant Burton will be back next year as instructors and that Junior
student officers have been selected. Forty-four men and six alternates have been selected from the rising Junior class for officers
next year. The chosen men are the following: Anderson, Andrews, Barnes, Bigham, Boggs, Branch, Branton, Breeden, I. A. Cathey, Covington,
Cox, Edwards, Feuchtenberger, Frieze, Fryfogle, Gladden, Howell, Hunter, Johnson, Johnston, McClelland, McLean, McLendon, Mack, A. S. Moffett, Morton, Overton, Patterson,
Peabody, Poe, Port, Quick, Ritchie, Robinson, Sanford, Scott, Sellers, Somerville, Thompson, Turner, Vogler, Winn, and Woodward. The following six men
are alternates in order: Kuykendall, Finley, Templeton, Crowell, Squires, McAfee.

IT WAS NEWS... From DAVIDSONIANS of Years Gone By
FIVE YEARS AGO
Quips and Cranks of 1930 appears on the campus today... Dedication of Chambers building to be the feature of the
Commencement exercises. Fourteen members initiated into the IRC... The Student Council elects New Court of Control... Members of Year Book
chosen.

TEN YEARS AGO
Newly elected Student Officers take oath of office Friday... Davidsonian ends two years of service... Frosh to perform in annual
“day of fun” before the sophomores... Davidson bows to Duke after thrilling rally in the seventh inning... Dramatic Club to
promote student interest in amateur plays... Wildkitten nine drops final game to the Baptists... Sophs hold banquet Tuesday night... Greensboro...
Davidson will send representatives to Blue Ridge conclave... Seniors are interested in graduation schedule... Currie wins praise at big meet.
State Tennis doubles Championship goes to Wildcat netmen.

FIFTEEN YEARS AGO
Carolina comes first in state track meet—Wildcats lose three and win one in baseball... Class of 1915 to hold first
reunion... Dr. Richards decides to remain at Davidson... Student Body Officers are installed. Excellent speakers are secured for commencement exercises...
Last game of season goes to Furman... Davidson honored by visit of the General Assembly... Track team culminates season with
three impressive wins.

Commencement Invitations
Fraternity Publications
1143 E. FOURTH ST.
K. D. WEEKS
Fine Printing
QUEEN CITY PRINTING CO.
Representatives
Visiting Cards
Personal and Fraternity Stationery
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
JOE WADSWORTH
