GENE McEVER TO REMAIN HERE AS WILDCAT COACH

The Davidsonian

ALENODA LUX UB! ORTA LIBERTAS

PAUL SABIN TO PLAY FOR MID-WINTER DANCES

Vol. XXII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., JANUARY 30, 1935 No. 14

ROTH PRESENTS AN ILLUSTRATED TALK ON ALASKA

First Lecture Of School Year Presented January 28 By Dr. Robert E. Roth

LECTURE WELL ATTENDED

Talk Illustrated With Natural Color Photographs

The first lecture offered by the school this year was delivered in Chambers Auditorium last Monday night, January 28, at
seven o'clock when Dr. Robert E. Roth delivered an illustrated address on Alaska. The lecture was enjoyable and enlightening due
to the fact that Dr. Roth is a man with a great deal of experience in lecturing, and he has
also visited Alaska several times. He lectured as his pictures were being shown and described in detail each picture. Dr.
Roth had an unusually good type of stereopticon, as compared to the one usually seen. The pictures were not changed
by slides, but were characterized by a more continuous form of projection, the pictures fading into each other, thus producing
more of a similarity to moving pictures. This is the first time that a lecturer has used this type of
machine in a lecture at Davidson. The pictures were arranged in their proper sequence, and through the aid of the
new type stereopticon, Dr. Roth was able to proceed in a very interesting manner with his lecture. This is the
second time that the speaker has lectured at Davidson, and both times he has been received by a large and
an appreciative audience. The attendance Monday night was very pleasing to (Continued on Page 5, Col. 1)

Second Founders’ Day To Be April 9

Celebration Instituted As Annual Event On Ninety-Seventh Anniversary

The second annual celebration of Founders’ Day will be held here on April 9. There will be several speakers for
the occasion and the students will be given a half holiday. This Founders’ Day will celebrate the ninety-eighth anniversary of
the founding of the college. Founders’ Day was instituted as an annual event in the college year on the ninety-seventh
anniversary of the founding of the college last year. In connection with the celebration of the occasion, there will be
Alumni meetings held in many parts of the country and speakers will be sent from the college to as many
of these meetings as is possible. It is expected that there will be a baseball game here on the afternoon
of this day, but as yet plans for the game and the other exercises of the day are not yet
definite. Last year, Dr. Ben Geer, President of Furman, delivered the lecture of the day and in the afternoon the
Wildcats made a rally in the last inning of the game with the Duke Blue Devils and won 5-4.

FEATURED PIANIST WILL PRESENT CONCERT HERE

Second Concert Of Series Will Be Given By Joseph Brinkman On February 12

IS PRAISED BY PAPERS

Artist Has Played With Chicago Symphony

Joseph Brinkman, one of few entirely American-trained pianists who have attained distinction, will present the second concert of the Davidson
series on Tuesday, February 12. Mr. Brinkman, a youthful pianist, made his debut with the Chicago Symphony Orchestra. The Chicago
Tribune says concerning his concerts: “The most spontaneous, the most hearty, and the longest continued applause given to any soloist
of the season fell to Joseph Brinkman, when he appeared with the Chicago Symphony Orchestra at Orchestra Hall... Fireworks started
from all over the keyboard under his fingers, it is true. But he has more than virtuosity.” The Chicago Evening
American states: “One is immediately convinced of his remarkable musical sincerity, of the assurance, the superb assurance of his technical
powers, of the clarity and purity of his tone, and, above all, of the distinction, the refinement of his art.
He is a most likeable as well as a most admirable young pianist.” The Herald and Examiner adds: “He is
admirably gifted musically and has acquired an enviable technical equipment. A most brilliant player.” The Chicago Daily News: “His gifts
as a pianist were displayed not only through an exhaustive technical endowment but also by a musical knowledge of profound
depths. He showed here a decided brilliance of the quality of our noted virtuosos.”

NOTED PIANIST

Six New Students Are Enrolled In Davidson

All classes except the Sophomore class will be represented by the six new students who have arrived at Davidson for
the second semester. Of the new students, three are enrolled in the Senior class, two in the Junior class, and
one in the Freshman class. The following students have enrolled in the various classes: Seniors: F. O. Gee, Jr., Shelby;
T. Davis Miller, Wilson; A. C. Devande, Davidson. Juniors: F. E. Renfrow, Jr., Sumter, S. C.; W. C. Branton, Greenville,
Miss. Freshmen: M. B. McMillan, St. Pauls.

Dr. Nathan To Speak Before Relations Club Conference

COLLEGE BOARD TO MEET SOON

Body Of Trustees To Gather On Davidson Campus To Transact Business

The regular semi-annual meeting of the Davidson College Trustees will be held February 20 on the Campus. This meeting is
a regular one which is held every year at this time. At the meeting the regular routine business of the
body is transacted and also other special business which may be brought up. The Board of Trustees is composed of
forty-nine men, elected by the Presbyteries of North Carolina and Florida, and by the Alumni Association. The Presbytery of Concord
has eight members on the board, Mecklenburg five, Orange and Fayetteville four each, and the other five Presbyteries of North
Carolina and the three in Florida, two each. The Alumni Association has twelve men on the board. Dr. R. A.
Dunn of Charlotte is president of the Executive Committee of this body. This committee exercises practically all the powers of
the entire body between its meetings.

Pan-Hellenic Mid-Winters To Feature Paul Sabin’s Music

With the contracting of Paul Sabin and his orchestra with Patricia Gail, torch singer plenipotentiary, Pan-Hellenic Council officials are elated
over the prospects for the best and least expensive Mid-Winter dances yet held. Due to a misunderstanding with the Music
Corporation of America and a mix-up in dates with the Pan-Hellenic Council of the University of North Carolina, Kay Kyser
will not play at Davidson, as announced in the last issues of The Davidsonian. The soft style of Sabin’s music
is expected to blend well with the valentine scheme of decoration selected by the Council. The Charlotte Armory has been
engaged for all three dances and it will be decorated, according to the Council, at the most expensive cost yet
placed in a Pan-Hellenic budget for decorations. “The Council,” stated Mims Rogers, president, “wishes to reiterate its announced purpose of
not intending to make any profit from these Mid-Winter dances. Its only aim is to provide an enjoyable set of
dances that will approach those held at larger colleges.” After much effort to obtain the best orchestra which would fit
its determined budget, Rogers stated that the Council felt confident as it expressed the opinion that the music for these
dances is the finest possible and will prove thoroughly enjoyable in every respect. Featured with Sabin’s band are Miss Patricia
Gail, Bob Carter and Paul Sabin himself. Carter, formerly with Paul Whiteman, sings in the “Skinny Ennis” style of vocalizing
and Sabin himself is an accomplished master of ceremonies, having been with Publix Theatres and made several short subjects with
Universal and Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer. “The music of Sabin’s Band,” reads his commercial advance, “is a charming potpourri of distinctive arrangements of
rhumbas and tangos, diversified with (Continued on Page 6, Column 5)

Davidson To Be Host To Convention Scheduled For Late In February

SPEAKER IS ECONOMIST

Many Southeastern Institutions To Be Represented

Student representatives from 102 colleges and universities in the Southeastern Conference of the International Relations Club will convene at Davidson
February 21, 22, and 23, to discuss various political and economic problems. The principal speaker will be Dr. Otto Nathan,
prominent economist and political advisor of Germany, who is in this country temporarily. Dr. Nathan is doing research work at
Princeton University in collaboration with other professors in his field. Three round table discussions, led by professors, will be held
in addition to Dr. Nathan's address. They are: “Munition Industry” (Private or Government Control), “Situation in Central Europe,” and “The
Far East Situation.” Charles Lucas, President of the Davidson College International Relations Club, will preside over the conference. W. C.
Neill is corresponding secretary and Warner DuBose, treasurer. Arsene Yakoubian, University of Alabama, Tuscaloosa, Ala., will act as first vice-president.
Miss Mary Lou Kaurer of Randolph-Macon, Lynchburg, Va., will serve as recording secretary. Dr. J. M. McConnell is serving in
the capacity of faculty advisor. The conference held in Davidson will be the twelfth of its kind. Mississippi State College,
Hattiesburg, Miss., was host to the International Relations Club Convention last February. The I. R. Club was organized under the
auspices of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace in colleges and universities, for the purpose of studying and discussing current
problems and affairs of national and international importance. The local chapter at Davidson was established in November, 1914. Charles Lucas,
President, stated: “Students in colleges and universities have acquired a serious and more genuine interest in political and economic problems
during the past few years and this year’s convention is a natural outgrowth of this interest.”

DAVIDSON WILL DEBATE IN THREE SECTIONS

Stutts And Sugg Make Southern Trip; Port and Salango Tour West; Boggs, Smith Visit North

TEN DEBATES SCHEDULED

Student Orators Make Forensic Debut Early In March

Meeting teams from ten southern, western, and northern colleges, the Davidson debating team will make three trips, beginning in early
March. The first section of the team, composed of A. C. Stutts and Harold Sugg will make the southern tour
during the first week of March. On the trip they will meet the College of Charleston, University of Miami, EmoryUniversity,
and the University of Georgia. The western trip is next on the debaters' calendar. Tyler Port and Jimmy Salango, representing
Davidson, will leave during the second week of March. They debate Sewanee, Centre, and the University of Kentucky. Wade Boggs
and Bob Smith, the other two members of the team, will visit William and Mary, Rutgers University, and Bucknell University,
on the northern trip. The topic for debate: "Resolved that the nations should agree to prevent the international shipment of
arms and munitions." This topic was chosen because of its relation to current findings of the Senate Munitions Investigation Committee.
Beginning this week, a coaching class will be conducted by Dr. C. K. Brown and others, to ground each team
thoroughly in both sides of the question. The first two teams will debate the affirmative, while the third team will
uphold the negative.

Four men; Boggs, Port, Sugg, and Salango, out of the six on this year’s team are new to varsity college
debating. Boggs, Port, and Sugg are members of the Sophomore class; the latter two having served on the Freshman debating
team. Salango, a Junior, is a transfer from Davis-Elkins junior college.

Faculty Members Attend Convention
Assemble With Presidents And Deans Of Church-Related Colleges In Atlanta

At a recent meeting of the National Conference of Church-Related Colleges, held in Atlanta, Ga., on January 16-18, three members
of the administration here represented Davidson College. President W. L. Lingle, Dr. T. W. Lingle, and Mr. F. L. Jackson
took leave of their duties on the campus to meet with five hundred college presidents and deans at their twenty-fourth
annual convention. The general theme for the three-day conference was, “The Church-Related College in American Education,” and starting with the
meeting on Wednesday, addresses were delivered by prominent figures in the field of education, following the general theme. The most
enlightening address of this nature was delivered by Colonel Frank Knox, editor and publisher of The Chicago Daily News. He
took for his subject “The Church-Related College in a Changing Social Order,” in which he gave his impressions of the
educational and religious situation in Russia and Germany today. As was brought out during the conference, which includes Church-related colleges
of all denominations, the financial problem proved to be the most significant and the one worthy of most consideration by
the representatives. Mr. Jackson, treasurer of Davidson and chairman of the committee on Permanent and Trust Funds, submitted an excellent
report before the conference on Thursday. The meetings on Thursday and Friday were open to the university representatives as well
as those of the colleges. The guests in the city were very much pleased with the musical renditions offered by
the Emory University Glee Club on Thursday. This organization has won prominence in music circles over the entire country. Most
important of the activities toward the close of the conference were (Continued on Page 6, Column 6)

McEVER WILL NOT DESERT WILDCATS FOR TENNESSEE

THREE STUDENTS ILL

Two Davidson students underwent operations during exam period and another is in the hospital awaiting operation. Carlton Chapman, of the
Junior class, had a slipping cartilage removed from his knee last week at the Presbyterian Hospital in Charlotte. This became
necessary when he discovered that the slipped cartilage had locked his knee in a bent position one morning about a
month ago. Fred McPhail underwent an appendicitis operation last Thursday night in Charlotte, following a fairly acute attack suffered during
a French exam. He was taken to his home in Charlotte yesterday, after an unusually speedy recovery, and is expected
back at school in a few weeks. W. B. Young of the Sophomore class suffered an attack of appendicitis during
an English exam on Friday, January 18. He was immediately taken to Charlotte and is now in West Virginia pending
operation.

LENOIR BAND TO OFFER CONCERT
High School Band, Under Direction Of Capt. James C. Harper, To Appear February 7

The Lenoir High School band, winner in the state contest, will present a concert in the college auditorium Thursday, February
7. This concert is independent of the series and the public is invited. Besides being the best of any in
the state, the Lenoir band was named one of the two best high school bands in the United States, by
Austin A. Harding, director of the 350-piece University of Illinois band. Some of the best musicians in the Davidson band
are Lenoir graduates. The director of the Lenoir band is Capt. James C. Harper, an alumnus of Davidson College and
the donor of the Harper Scholarship Cup for interfraternity competition. Capt. Harper’s own composition “The Fencing Master” has gained recognition,
and was played, under the direction of Capt. Harper, on a recent radio program. Capt. Harper is the only member
of the Bandmaster’s Association of America in this state.

Dr. Arbuckle Resumes His Duties As Teacher

Dr. H. B. Arbuckle, professor of Chemistry, resumed his duties with the Chemistry department at the beginning of the new
semester last Monday, after an absence of several months due to illness. Dr. Arbuckle was taken seriously ill last summer
while on a vacation trip. He spent several weeks in a hospital and was removed to his home at Davidson
just after the start of the first semester in September. Although his condition was very critical for a while, his
recovery was swift. He has recovered enough to take up part of his regular work this semester. At present he
is teaching only one hour a day, but he plans to take over another class in the immediate future.

Announces Definite Refusal Of Coaching Post At His Old Alma Mater

FORMER ALL-AMERICAN
Popular Coach’s Decision Hailed With Great Satisfaction

The Davidson Coaching Staff will in all probability remain intact for the 1935 football season since Coach Gene McEver, All-American
halfback and Davidson’s backfield coach, announced his intention to remain at Davidson for 1935. It had been known for some
time that the University of Tennessee, McEver’s Alma Mater, had been considering him for a position, and McEver’s decision to
remain with the Wildcats was received with deep satisfaction on the hill, among officials and students alike. McEver received the
first definite offer shortly after Christmas, and was considering it seriously, since it offered a much better financial arrangement than
did Davidson College. About two weeks ago he received a visit from Major W. H. Britton, now head coach of
the Tennessee Vols, and Col. P. V. Parker, director of athletics. For a while it looked as if the popular
and successful Davidson coach was about to leave. Shortly afterwards, faculty and students were pleased by the announcement of his
decision to remain, and in an interview this morning he stated that he was completely satisfied with arrangements for next
year. McEver was picked for the official All-American football team of 1929 and although he was out the following year,
in 1931 he received places on numerous selections and was one of the nation's high scorers. Major Bob Neyland, who
just rounded out a nine-year hitch as head coach at the University of Tennessee, rated McEver above the great back,
Beattie Feathers, now with the Professional Chicago Bears. McEver's backfields at Davidson have been fast and smart and have won
for him popularity throughout the State.

Play To Be Given By French Circle
Le Cercle Francais Plans To Present Play By Moliere In Early Spring

Le Cercle Francais will meet tonight at the usual hour for its first meeting of the new semester. An important
session is anticipated, and all members are urged to be present. At this time the French group will discuss plans
for the presentation of Moliere’s L’medicin malgre lui sometime in the early spring, and the participants will begin work on
the play. A tentative list of characters follows: Bob Coit, as “the doctor in spite of himself,” will have the
leading role. Woodrow Hassell, who played the lead in the last two dramatic presentations of the group, appears as Geronte.
Harvey Glass is the doctor's wife, Martine, and Jimmy Simpson will also assume feminine guise as the heroine, Lucinde; Ben
Wyche takes the part of Jacqueline, the nurse. (Continued on Page 5, Col. 1)

Account Of Hauptmann’s Trial
By Jack WILLIAMS, Jr., ’34 (Special to The Davidsonian)

Flemington, N. J., January 15, 1935.—Of all people in the world Flemingtonians are perhaps least interested in the “Trial of
a Century” which is now in progress in their County Courthouse. They are calmly indifferent for two reasons. They have
seen Col. Lindbergh and Mrs. Hauptmann and it would do little good to get excited because there are only 127
seats available to spectators and try and get one. Outsiders will drive all day and stand in line from 12:00
o’clock midnight until 10:00 o’clock the next morning for one of these seats. Flemington citizens are not that much interested.
However, it does make some of them mad not to be able to attend a trial in their own Courthouse.
After all they are paying for it. So when trial which is going on across the street it buys a
New York paper or tunes in on the radio. They have only sympathy for Hauptmann. They do not feel resentful
of his presence but regard him as a character in a play who has changed the whole drama of the
community. The manager of the Union Hotel, of 27 rooms was greatly upset on hearing that the winter snugness of
Flemington was to be disturbed. “I’ve got my paying customers,” he said, “and I don’t want to run the risk
of dissatisfying ’em by all these foreigners coming in.” However, the jury of eight men and four women are being
fed three meals a day at his hotel and the jingle of the cash register should in a measure make
up for this discomfort. “Foreigners” have so completely taken charge of the hotel that Flemington wants to know about the
(Continued on Page 5, Col. 2)
