THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 17, 1935

The Davidsonian
Founded by the Class of 1915

MEMBER
Associated Collegiate Press
1935

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Printed by the QUEEN CITY PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate year.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1870.

ARTICLES FOR PUBLICATION must be in the hands of Managing Editors by 4:00 o'clock p.m., Monday. Letters to the Editor are welcomed, but all communications intended for publication must be signed.

LAMONT BROWN .......... Editor
J. A. C. WADSWORTH .... Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
PIM MORTON .......... Managing Editor
Howett Overton .... Managing Editor
EVAROLDE SUGG .... Managing Editor
RAYMOND TURNER .... Managing Editor
VON HOWINN .... Managing Editor
HARRY KUYKENDALL .... Sports Editor
MARTIN BARNEI .... Associate Editor
HARVEY GEASS .... Associate Editor
AUTEM ARAN .... Associate Editor
Tom Marchant
John Walker

BUSINESS STAFF
J. S. McMullen .... Asst. Business Mgr.
R. P. Morrow .... Asst. Business Mgr.
Walt Gasses .... Asst. Business Mgr.
Tom Ross .... Asst. Business Mgr.

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 17, 1935

No race can prosper 'til it learns that there is as much dignity in tilling the field as in writing a poem.—Booker T. Washington.

We extend sincerest sympathy to Professor Archibald Currie, who was recently bereft of his brother.

WORK AS BENEFITS

While the U. S. Congress is wrangling over the advisability of continuing the presently operating Federal relief program, it should be of interest to get a glimpse of the benefit Davidson is deriving from the collegiate branch of FERA. For nearly eight months a faculty committee, composed of Professor F. K. Fleagle, Chairman, Dr. G. R. Vowles, and Professor H. E. Fulcher, has been finding jobs and assigning work to an average of one hundred students each month. Among these workers a sum of $1095 is distributed monthly; no one man receiving more than $20. It can be readily seen that by the end of the present school year an amount approaching the $10,000 mark will have been expended to Davidson students who have needed some sort of financial aid in order that they would be able to remain in college. To many, this may have appeared as purely a dole proposition, but an investigation reveals that numerous profitable accomplishments have accrued on the Davidson campus as a result of the efforts of these FERA students. No jobs have been manufactured by the committee in order to give employment to some man. On the contrary, there has always been a larger number of positions than the allotted sum would permit engaging employers to fill.

With FERA funds, helpful coaching classes have been established for students who need special assistance in their studies. Several assistantships in laboratory instruction, and in helping to grade papers for professors have been made possible, along with added strength that has been given to the college library work. Last fall, the Athletic Association was saved the expense of paying for ushers and guards at football games by having relief funds to finance these necessities. Help has also been provided from time to time in the dining room, for certain special college functions, along with the expending of various amounts to pay assistants to the school physician during the flu epidemic last winter. A portion of the money has financed the keeping of an emergency electrician on the campus at all times to correct any trouble that might arise with the lighting system. Also, two men are employed to keep hot water for students in the dormitories after the janitors have stopped work in the afternoons, and the janitor force has been supplemented, so the regular janitors might devote all of their time to caring for the recently remodeled dormitories. FERA men have handled a large amount of the clerical work in the offices of the Registrar and Alumni Secretary. They have done a great deal of outside work, making appreciable improvements on the athletic fields, particularly the golf course where Captain Cochran, of the ROTC department, has ably supervised tremendous betterments in landscaping and reforestation. At present, a group of these workers are, at the request of the county health officer, making a health survey of the town of Davidson.

From the enumerated occupations of the FERA employees, it can be easily concluded that the Davidson unit of this nationwide movement is certainly proving beneficial to both college and student. The men are earning their wages by helpful work, and the earned wages enable them to pay college expenses. Although the money is the students' to do with it what they please, it is generally believed that fewer boys have been compelled to withdraw from school this year because of financial difficulties than any year since prosperity vanished. The work of Professor Fleagle and the members of his committee looms brightly on the Davidson campus as a most profitable undertaking, and one that should be continued until it will no longer be needed.

BETTER LIGHTING IS NEEDED AT LECTURES

MANY who have attended the lectures given at Davidson, particularly those who had the pleasure of hearing Dr. Bagby last Monday night, have noticed the inadequacy of the lighting of the stage for the occasion. It seems that there is always too much light behind the speaker and not enough just in front. This was particularly noticeable when Dr. Bagby stepped before the blackboard. The features of the speaker were much more clearly discernible than when he was before the stand. Two soft orange spotlights placed at the sides of the auditorium at a distance of about 40 feet from each corner would help greatly. If it is impossible at present to arrange this, the committee would find it at least an improvement to reduce the light behind the speaker. Many others feel that they would enjoy the lectures more if the audience lights were out. It would be better for the eyes and would concentrate the attention upon the speaker. The speaker would possibly be at a disadvantage in not being able to see the audience as clearly, but at the same time, the empty seats would not be quite so disconcerting and the audience would give him much more effective attention. One more suggestion we offer before this plea closes. Nearly every lecture at Davidson is scheduled for Monday night. “The Davidsonian” is also put together on Monday night and must be completed by eleven o’clock. Thus, from twenty-five to fifty students, depending upon how many students work on the paper each year, have been unable to attend any of the lectures. Could we not divide the dates up and give these struggling young journalists a chance to attend a few?

—H. S.

COMPASSING
By Scotty McLeod

Baseball is the primary afternoon attraction here since the rain has ceased for the time being. Interfraternity competition in the diamond sport begins soon and all the boys are rushing to get in shape. It will be a pleasant surprise if all the games aren’t rained out. Spring Services, just concluded under the leadership of Rev. Redhead, were very successful this year and it is hoped that the Tampa minister will return to our campus again soon.

Some of the prize attractions at the Bowery Ball Saturday night were: Geddie Munroe as an obese woman, Eugene Engineer Heggie strutting about, Miriam Steel in a real Bowery costume, Percival (Smiling Sweetly) Mauze as a tiny tot, bad, bold Pirate Crosby (really Miss South Carolina to you), the sedate Parson Mathis in an unnatural imitation, Betsy Johnston (of the Wytheville Johnstons) in a five-year-old costume was too, too attractive, and Evelyn Misenheimer in some queer rig. And Mary Harris, one of the prize winners, thought it was rushing season so she wore a Russian costume. A gentleman from Rocky Mount created a near-sensation as King Kong while Alice Boatwright did cause a sensation as the demure little lady she is. Wilbur Edward, prize-winner, made a handsome preacher, tall and dark and hard to resist. Sonny Moore spent half the night looking down people's throats to make sure their adenoids weren't swollen or their tonsils ragged. Other notables present were Betty Hunter, blonde horseback-rider from Charlotte, and a very good friend of Phil Cook’s; Jane Ellen Taylor, who is becoming a constant frequenter of Davidson affairs; Lila Tucker, whom we all know and love; Dosty Blackmon, pal of Joe Hunter, Herb Willis, and Bud Okey; Katherine Crowell, who seldom is found missing, and numerous others. Some of the boys, we are told, didn’t get enough dancing Friday and Saturday so they took on another hop Sunday night at the Armory. Duke Ellington and his sepia-hued music-makers were very much there. Some of the boys there might beAmong this crew: Bob Johnston, Dick Hayworth, John Douglas, Hippo Heggie, and Bill Harris. Wild stories of colored ladies being carried out the front door feet first were told by some of these attendants. It seems there was one fight too many. The Beta convention in Charlotte over the weekend contributed to the Bowery festivities a great deal. There’s nothing like a good convention in town now and then. Gus Maynard has asked us to announce that he would greatly appreciate it if no one will speak to him for the next week. He is down with a lost voice due to an attack of severe laryngitis. He is tired of talking. In a baseball game Monday, Tom Buff tried to steal a base but he didn’t get away with it—there were some student council members in the bleachers. He slid to what he thought was second base but he didn’t know from third base whether it was or not. A certain gentleman in Charlotte lost his Packard car keys Saturday night, one of our keyhole-peepers informs us today. Tut-tut.

COLLEGIATE CLIPPINGS

Two thousand wads of chewing gum were recently removed from under edges of library tables at the University of Florida reports the “Technique,” campus paper—A check-up at V. P. I. revealed the fact that FERA students averaged better grades during the first quarter of school than their classmates despite the necessity of working part-time.—Chi Omega’s at the University of Georgia held a real house warming early one morning last week when their house caught fire—Students at Denison University voted to ban “Hell Week” after 67 years of faithful service—A ban on dogs attending classes was recently put into effect at Amherst College—A “leap week” dance was held recently by co-eds at the University of California, the girls making all dates, doing the breaking—and paying for movies, food, taxis, and corsages.

OUR CONTEMPORARIES
By Eni Bowers

COLLEGIANS PROTEST AGAINST WAR—Students at the University of North Carolina, University of South Carolina, Furman, and the University of Virginia staged a mass meeting on last Friday, April 12th, as a protest against war. Most demonstrations were held about noon as part of a nationwide college strike against war. With the approval of President Frank Graham, students at Chapel Hill assembled in Memorial Hall and were addressed by Rev. Donald Stewart, a Presbyterian minister. At U. S. C. 300 students pledged themselves “not to support the government in future wars except to repel invasion.” At Furman students made peace from the library steps to 200 approving students, accompanied by shouts of “War—we want war!” by campus fun makers. The movement affected 100,000 students this year, estimates say. This year marks its first appearance in the South.

BEER PROMISES FAIL—Unexpected last-minute opposition threatened “Progressives” at Washington and Lee last week reports The Ring-Tum Phi, campus weekly. The unchallenged “Progressives” received a jolt when “Hoss” Richardson suddenly announced his candidacy as “member-at-large.” Campaigning went on in a big way. Unprecedented crowds were attracted to election speeches. Students smiled at Ginger Rogers’ endorsement of the candidate, and at his promises which included: wrestling matches with Sweetbriar, no more rain, and beer in the Co-op (student’s store). Photographs of the candidate profusely decorated with chin whiskers and horses made their appearance on the campus, while signs, fashioned after those of a well-known shaving cream, proclaimed his virtues and seriousness. As the Progressives grew worried, dormitories became the scene of many a back-slap and impromptu speech. Despite the attractive promises of the Member-At-Large, the Progressives won out.

BREAKFAST IN BED—At Duke, an innovation sure to meet with approval at Davidson was begun last week. Room service for breakfast was offered from 8:30 to 11:30 on Sunday morning to all co-eds. The luxury of “breakfast in bed” was heightened by the fact that Isham Jones, playing at a dance the night before, had attracted many until the wee small hours.

INVENTORS SUPPLANT ASSISTANTS—Visions of starvation confront all professors’ assistants these days since they have read about the new invention at Ohio State University. Some ingenious soul has put together a machine for grading exams and tests. The student takes a hole-puncher to class instead of the customary ink and paper, and punches out his answers in the question card. Cards are then sent through the machine which prints grades and scores the number missed.

Hearst’s Ideas Are Opposed By Editors
By Associated Collegiate Press

Madison, Wis. — William Randolph Hearst's current campaign advocating purging universities and colleges of alleged “communists” is meeting with forceful opposition in the editorial pages of undergraduate newspapers, a scanning of student editors’ opinions by the staff of the Associated Collegiate Press and Collegiate Digest reveals. Leading the group of student papers which have been antagonized by the “red scare” developed by the Hearst newspapers is the Columbia Daily Spectator, Columbia University (New York City) publication. In a recent editorial, the Declaration of Independence, Alexander Hamilton, John Adams, James Madison, Thomas Jefferson, Daniel Webster, Abraham Lincoln, and U. S. Grant are quoted concerning their beliefs on the nature of American institutions. The quotations are followed by figures concerning unemployed and income of American citizens, from which the Spectator concludes that “they seem to explain away equality of opportunity, freedom of contract, and all the blessings of liberty, life and the pursuit of happiness and a few other things.” The editorial suggests that Mr. Hearst discover just who owns the government and ends up by saying, “Your American institutions seem to be up a tree, Mr. Hearst. We think we'll take the Founding Fathers’ word for it, Bill.”

In an editorial “Hearsteria,” the Campus, student paper of the College of the City of New York points to the investigation now being conducted in Wisconsin to determine if radical-minded students and instructors populate the campuses of the University of Wisconsin, as the result of Hearst agitation. Commenting on the situation, the Campus says, “Undoubtedly, the Hearst press is right. Without doubt, Wisconsin is undermined with Communists. Certainly we have no doubt that there are at least three billion Communists in the state university alone, merely waiting for word from Moscow to blow up the buildings. We congratulate the Hearst press on its perspicacity and on its sincere patriotism in nailing this incipient crisis in the bud.”

At the University of Chicago, where Frederick L. Schuman, professor of political science, has been publicly requested to resign by Mr. Hearst, the Daily Maroon, university paper, recently published a front-page answer to Mr. Hearst by Prof. Schuman. Accompanying this was an editorial reprinted from a Hearst paper and also a Daily Maroon editorial.

The University of Michigan (Ann Arbor) boasts the honor of having been the location of the first fraternity house to be built in America, in 1846.

Prof. A. L. Hacquaert, of the University of Ghent (Belgium), has learned the English language in two months by listening to other people’s conversations while on a tour of the American universities.

“IT WAS NEWS...”
Years Gone By

FIVE YEARS AGO
J. Wilson McCutchan is elected editor of The Davidsonian ... “Y” Cabinet to be installed Sunday ... Reporters Club issues bids to sixteen writers ... Dr. W. L. Lingle to deliver Baccalaureate sermon at Carolina ... 'Cats place four men in Georgia Tech Relays ... Students to hear Miss Nella Sharpe in organ concert ... Wildcats lose to W. & L. and V. M. I. in baseball ... Golf team defeats Wake Forest, 22-2 ... Red and Black Masquers present “Wapping Warf.”

TEN YEARS AGO
Baseball team loses to Tar Heels, 8-3 ... Freshmen defeat Duke, 22-8 ... Kitten orators win over Wake Forest in debate ... New Student Council to take oaths during coming week ... Junior Speaking furnishes entertainment for campus ... Tennis Team plans trip to the eastern part of the state this week ... “Y” officers and cabinet installed ... Debating team has two more meets ... Sigma Upsilon, honorary fraternity, initiates four men.

FIFTEEN YEARS AGO
Baseball team defeated by Carolina and State ... Hon. T. W. Bickett, governor of North Carolina, speaks to students ... A. L. Currie chosen president of Student Body ... Band takes six-day trip ... Students hear Glee Club from Mitchell College ... Golf team defeated by Gastonia Country Club ... Volunteer Band holds feed ... Sophomore banquet held.

TWENTY YEARS AGO
Davidson defeats Charlotte Hornets, 8-7 ... Davidson wins debates over Emory and Agnes Scott ... Dr. J. R. Bridges preaches at Church ... Annual field day planned for April 29 ... Class baseball starts ... Baseball team defeats Richmond College (University of Richmond), 6-1, and Wofford 5-3.

Commencement Invitations
Fraternity Publications
1143 E. FOURTH ST.
K. D. WEEKS
Fine Printing
QUEEN CITY PRINTING CO.
Representatives
Visiting Cards
Personal and Fraternity Stationery
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
JOE WADSWORTH