THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 20, 1935

TRACK, BASEBALL AND MINOR SPORTS TERMINATE SEASON

Sports Afield

SPORTS ROLL OF HONOR © APPEARS IN THIS ISSUE

BY H. L. KUYKENDALL

With practically all spring sports having reached a point of termination and football being next in line of thought, this
column introduces a brief sketch of both Coaches Newton and McEver.

DOC NEWTON

“Doc” began his athletic career at Cluster Springs Academy in Virginia where, by coincidence, he was under the instruction of
a former member of the Davidson Athletic council. At this school, he participated in four sports. Leaving the Academy, he
entered the University of South Carolina where he made an enviable record, being selected as All-South Atlantic end in football,
a pitcher on the baseball nine, and center on the basketball five. Since his college career, “Newt” has played with
the Baltimore Orioles, Birmingham and Montgomery, Alabama, St. Jos, Little Rock, and Kinston, in baseball as a pitcher. He also
served as a coach at Howard University and the University of Tennessee before being secured by Captain Pritchett as a
football coach here.

GENE McEVER

The “Bristol Blizzard” came to Davidson fresh from the realms of competition and arrived here with an up-to-date knowledge of
what a backfield man should do. Incidentally, he knew how to practice what he preached. Gene came here straight from
the University of Tennessee where he established himself as an All-American halfback, All-Southern for three years, and on top of
that, was the leading scorer in the country. Acclaimed by Major Bob Neyland as the “greatest and smartest” player he
had ever coached, Gene also received praise from many others. He was a keen and absorbing student of the game.

LATE BULLETIN

Earle Frazier of Davidson has been elected Captain of the Varsity Track team for 1936, succeeding Duke Glasgow. Professor “Happy”
Blythe made no exaggeration in chapel Monday when he acclaimed “The Champ” as the greatest distance runner that has ever
been at Davidson—the best in the State and, if not already, is the best in the south. Earle, in his
last two years, has set two State records and surpassed all school records in his events by far.

ENVIABLE RECORD

Since Captain Pritchett came here seven years ago, the ’Cats have won 24 out of 36 track meets, tied 2,
and lost ten contests. 18 of these victories were by more than 20 points and 5 of the defeats were
less than 20 points. Under his tutelage, Davidson men have placed first in the Southern Relays at Georgia Tech, at
the University of Virginia Indoor Games, at the Southern Conference Indoor meets, and in the State meets. Many of the
present State records have been established by Davidson men under Captain Pritchett, such as Currie, Cochrane, and Frazier. Whittle tied
the World’s record in the 70-yard hurdles. Cochrane placed in the Penn Relays, while other men have carried off honors
in sectional and national meets among the following events: hurdles, 440, High Jump, the 880, mile, two mile, the sprints,
and in the shots. All these points only serve to illustrate one fact. A fact well known to all who
know Captain Pritchett. That is, in losing him, Davidson will have lost its best friend in athletics and in other
fields. We may consider ourselves fortunate if we obtain a man who can do half as much as Captain has
done to create good clean athletics here. Personally, this column believes he has done more to sustain “that wildcat spirit”
than any other individual.

CINDERMAN LOSE TO BLUE DEVILS HERE SATURDAY

Earle Frazier and John Newton Are Outstanding Stars of Meet

FRAZIER WINS TWICE

Time Comparatively Slow in Majority of Events

Duke University’s powerful track team defeated the Davidson team here on May 11th, 101 to 25. The Blue Devils started
the meet with three places in the 100-yard dash and maintained a safe lead until the final event. Earle Frazier,
Davidson distance man, led the individual scoring with 10 points, taking first place in the 880-yard and mile runs. Moore
broke the Duke record in the pole vault with a 12 foot 7 3/4 inch jump while Myers sprang six
feet and 3/4 inches for a new high jump record.

The summary:
100-yard dash: Woodward (Duke), Shehan (Duke), Farrell (Duke); 10 seconds.
Mile run: Frazier (Davidson), Heritage (Duke), Webb (Duke); 4:31.4.
220-yard dash: Shehan (Duke), Johnson (Duke), Dickson (Davidson); 22.8.
High Hurdles: Martin (Duke), Atkinson (Duke), Parker (Davidson); 15.6.
440-yard dash: George (Duke), Sizemore (Duke), Stonebarner (Duke); 51.4.
Low Hurdles: Peabody (Duke), Parker (Davidson); 20 seconds.
Two mile run: Moore (Duke), Dator (Duke), Montgomery (Davidson); 10:29.
880-yard run: Frazier (Davidson), Kneip (Duke), Pruiett (Duke); 2:00.4.
Pole vault: Moore (Duke), Leidy (Duke) and Lee (Davidson) tied for second; 12 feet, 7 3/4 inches.
Shot put: M. Williams (Duke), Krausberr (Duke), Williams (Duke); 44 feet 5 inches.
Discus: Newton (Davidson), McGrail (Duke); 122 feet 7 inches.
Javelin: West (Duke), Pickard (Duke), Pierce (Davidson); 193 feet 11 3/4 inches.
High Jump: Myers (Duke), Gammon (Davidson) and Atkinson (Duke) tied for second; 6 feet 1/4 inches.
Broad Jump: Hanes (Duke), Myers (Duke), and Dickson (Davidson); 22 feet 3 inches.

Gilpin Tabor and Taylor Are New Track Managers

Bill Cleveland, Tenn., was elected varsity track manager; and Mills Tabor, Wilmington, was chosen for the freshman manager in the
track elections Monday afternoon. John Abernathy, Winter Haven, Fla., Tom Bennettsville, S. C., and Russell Patterson, Trenton, Tenn., were elected
Junior managers, while Tom Brady, Ernest Dooley, John Horton, Ben Nash, Jack Lafferty, Charles Malone, and Gilbert Palmer were selected
as sophomore managers. Tabor, who is a Phi Gamma Delta, has served as assistant manager for the past three years,
and has also taken a rein part in campus activities. Taylor, who is a member of Pi Kappa Phi social
fraternity, is a student body officer, business manager of the Yowl for the coming year, and a member of the
Glee Club.

Sophs Mop Up In Class Golf With Opponents

The Sophomores mopped up last week in the interclass golf competition by winning each of its three matches against the
Seniors, Freshmen, and the Juniors respectively. The Sophomore team consisted of the following: Westall, Stewart, Carlson, and Branton. Jimmy Westall,
number one Sophomore player, caused an uproar after missing an approach shot when it is estimated by those who saw
it that he threw his number 8 about half-way across the first fairway from the eighth green. Westall, throughout the
matches, consistently shot in the low eighties. The Sophomores and the Juniors will play in the finals for the championship
of the interclass tennis tournament. The Freshmen were supposed to play the Sophomores last Friday but the Freshmen were unable
to get a full team together so were forced to forfeit the game.

WILDEST WILDCATS Honor Roll

Johnny Mackorell - Football
Jim Morgan - Football
John Siewers - Football
George Wingfield - Football
B. Lee Courtney - Football
Ross - Football
Maurice Peabody - Basketball
Earle Frazier - Basketball
John Lee - Track
John Newton - Wrestling
Charlie Harris - Wrestling
Jim Dickson - Wrestling
Bill Snow - Wrestling
Tommy Phifer - Wrestling
Carlyle Lewis - Wrestling
Leroy Blackwelder - Wrestling
Lawrence Quarterman - Wrestling

Mackorell, Morgan, Frazier, and Harris Are Papers' Outstanding Choices

Looking back over the past year of athletic history at Davidson, certain exponents of Wildcat prowess stand out in our
minds as having done special service toward the betterment of various team records during their respective schedules of contests with
other teams. These men have been placed on THE DAVIDSONIAN’s roll of honor for sports, and their names appear in
the box above this column. Although the past season saw the “thin red line” going up against some of the
strongest teams in the country, the hard-fighting ’cats split even in games and it was during these contests that many
stars were revealed. However, six men, in our opinion, exhibited the most consistently outstanding work during one of the hardest
seasons ever put before a Davidson grid machine. Such warriors of the gridiron as A. V. Potter, “Tubby” Hand, Henry
Cathey, Cole Windham, and Dick Johnston certainly deserve mention, but those chosen for particular honors are: Johnny Mackorell, twice All-State
back, All South Atlantic and honorably mentioned for the All-American eleven; Jim Morgan, holder of the Basketball Team Spirit Trophy
and At State End, has won eight varsity letters during his last three years here; Dewey Hutchins, has lugged the
spheroid into the promised land so often and has made so many games sensational, particularly the Deacon contest, that we
feel he has a place well earned; John Siewers, recognized as one of the most outstanding linesmen.In the state; George
Wingfield, alternate Captain of the team and veteran ball carrier; and J. Lee, who proved himself one of the greatest
defensive linesmen of the past seasons. Courtney leads the basketball field by virtue of his high scoring honors and his
consistently good showing for the past three years; Maurice Peabody, also an ace scorer, was selected because of his ability
to carry the fight and his all-round good showing. Karle Frazier for the second year takes the forefront in the
world of cindermen having set two state records and proven himself the greatest distance runner ever to enter Davidson; John
Lee who won first in the J. C. Collegiate tournament is an outstanding vaulter for Davidson; with John Newton earning
a large number of points in each meet to see him among the honored. In baseball Charlie Harris and Jim
Dickson were picked more for their consistent playing although at times they were both spectacular and consistent. Harris was also
outstanding in basketball as was Jim Morgan, though we believe he was a greater help to the team in baseball.
Jim Dickson, a sophomore, literally saved three games for the 'cats by his timely bunts and hits, besides playing a
good game at right field. Bill Snow deserves a place, we think, because of his exhibition against Charlie Yates and
other of the country’s golf champions. Carlye Lewis and Tommy Phifer, numbers one and two respectively of the local team,
for their individual show-

(Continued on Page 5, Col. 2)

Ross

We Do All Kinds of Shoe Repairing
Let Us Serve You
BUFF SHOE SHOP

Davidsonian’s Athletic Roll Of Honor Chosen For Year

GRID SCHEDULE

Fall football practice is scheduled to start on September the 3rd with the following schedule carded:

September 21—Elon, here.
September 28—N. C. State at Greensboro.
October 5—Virginia, there.
October 12—South Carolina, here.
October 19—Carolina, probably here.
October 26—Citadel, here.
November 2—Open.
November 9—Duke, here.
November 16—V. M. I., there.
November 28—Wake Forest, Charlotte.

KITTENS BREAK EVEN IN GAMES

Hogan Pitches For First Time After Participating in Track

The Davidson freshman baseball team closed its season last week by winning over Belmont Abbey and losing to Brevard.

Brevard 13; Davidson 2.

Unable to solve the puzzling offerings of Layton, lanky Brevard fireball pitcher, the Wildkittens lost in a rather one-sided encounter,
13-2. Irvin Hogan, pitching his first game of the season, performed in a very creditable manner. Although the opposing batsmen
rapped his deliveries for a large number of safeties, the score is in no way a true indication of the
mound merits of the 'Kitten twirler. The Brevard sluggers hit hard drives all over the field, but loose fielding had
a large part in making the score as large as it was. Clark, Davidson centerfielder, provided the fielding feature of
the game when he raced far back into deep centerfield to make a beautiful one-hand catch of Barton's long drive.
Hogan drove in both of Davidson’s runs when he hit a long home run in the sixth inning.

Davidson 8; Belmont Abbey 6

Although Belmont filled the bases in the last inning with none out, Davidson allowed but one run to be scored,
and won, 8-6. Bill Kiesewetter went the entire route for Davidson and limited the Abbeys to nine hits while his
mates were pounding out fourteen hits off the delivery of Bumgardner. This game was featured by heavy hitting on both
sides, and in the end Davidson outscored Belmont. Joe Kellam, 'Kitten catcher, led the Davidson hitters by slamming out five
hits in five times at bat.

CRAWFORD MAY GET JOB HERE

Two Men Being Considered For Director of Athletics

Pat Crawford showed some interest when informed by the Charlotte Observer that he would be seriously considered for the post
of director of athletics at Davidson. The big league ball player said he had not been approached about the matter
and, offhand, could not say definitely whether he would accept the position if offered to him. Pat Crawford was secretary
of “Y” while at Davidson and was outstanding in all sports and especially in baseball. He took a special course
in physical education at Ohio State and also at Springfield. Although no meeting has been held to determine who will
succeed Captain Pritchett, the many friends of Crawford consider him to have every qualification and it is known that he
has always had an ambition to take up work of this kind as a life career. Leonard Dick, director of
athletics at Woodberry Forest and also a former Davidson man, is also being prominently mentioned for the position.

Benfield and Branton Chosen New Managers

William Benfield, Sinks Grove, W. Va., was elected varsity baseball manager and W. C. Branton, Greenville, Miss., was appointed to
the freshmen post in the baseball field Monday evening. John Andrews, Germantown, Pa., Howard Dyer, Greenville, Miss., and Jim Morton,
Bullock, N. C., were elected as junior managers, while Moir Hall, Henry Lyons, Morrison King, Charles Raynal, and John Tinge
remained as the sophomore managers. Benfield is a member of the Glee Club and of Eta Sigma Phi, national classical
fraternity. Branton is a member of Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity and was recently elected as President of the Pan-Hellenic
for the coming term. Jim Hodgin, Greensboro, who was also eligible for varsity manager, was defeated, as were Wilbur Edwards,
Charlotte, and B. F. McLeandon, Bennettsville, S. C. for the junior posts.

DELTA PHI ALPHA MEETS

The Epsilon Chapter of Delta Phi Alpha was given an illustrated lecture at its last meeting on May 6. Doctor
C. Harding addressed the German honorary fraternity. Doctor Harding's lecture was on the Folk Tale “Reinecke the Fox.” The talk
was an illustrated one on the old animal story of several hundred years of age.

pounding out fourteen hits off the delivery of Bumgardner. This game was featured by heavy hitting on both sides, and
in the end Davidson outscored Belmont. Joe Kellam, 'Kitten catcher, led the Davidson hitters by slamming out five hits in
five times at bat.

Announcing our appointment as dealers for Biltmore Ice Cream made on the famed Biltmore Estate, Biltmore, N. C. We are
pleased to be able to supply you with all popular flavors and combinations in brick and in bulk. Orders also
taken for fancy molds for parties and other special occasions. Let us serve you!

COLLEGE PHARMACY
DAVIDSON’S SERVICE DRUG STORE
Next Door to Post Office

WILDCATS DROP SERIES OF GAMES TO WOLFPACK

Freeman and Davidson Pitch State to Two Victories over Wildcats

GAMES CLOSE SEASON

Charlie Harris Pitches Well; Mates Fail to Hit

Last Saturday afternoon, the Davidson Wildcats sank farther into the cellar position through their double loss to N. C. State
College. The Wildcats practically cinched the cellar after the double-header defeat by the score of 1-3, and 1-6. The games
were originally scheduled for Friday afternoon and Saturday afternoon but the Friday afternoon game was rained out, and it was
decided that a double-header would be played Saturday afternoon.

Davidson 1; N. C. State 3

Charlie Harris pitched the usual bang-up game, allowing only six hits but these hits were bunched enough to bring home
the bacon. The Wildcats, in out-hitting the Pack, touched Ray Freeman, State southpaw, for ten hits but failed to make
them count in the pinches. The Pack scored first, scoring in the third inning. The 'Cats came back to score
after Bumgarner banged out a three-bagger then followed by an error by a State outfielder, in the seventh. The Wolfpack
came back as the first man up for the Pack knocked out a single, then after Charlie Harris fanned one
man, Lambeth of State slammed a line drive down third base to bring in one run. A few moments later,
Lambeth was brought in by an easy hit and an error. The game ended after the first half of the
ninth after Davidson failed to hit. Batteries: Harris and Ravenel; Freeman and Staton. Umpires: Smith and Stephenson. Time: 1 hour,
and 40 minutes.

Davidson 1; N. C. State 6

Jerry Davidson, another southpaw, spelled defeat for the Wildcats. Davidson allowed only three hits during the entire nine innings, while
the Pack touched Jenkins for ten hits, making six runs. Davidson’s only run came in the fourth inning when Mackorell,
redeeming himself for two errors, knocked out a two-bagger and then Charlie Harris scored Mackorell from third by a single.
The Pack scored one in the first, and five in the fourth. After the fourth inning, the game was practically
“on ice,” as the 'Cats never threatened after that time. Batteries: Jenkins and Ravenel; Davidson and Staton.

A New Kind of UNDERWEAR

Less of it... Cooler... More freedom
No buttons
Gently supporting... Perfect for Active Men...
Each 50c and 35c
P. H. HANES KNITTING CO.
Winston-Salem, N. C.
