THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 10, 1935

Former College Head Talks Over Old Times At Davidson
Thinks Dances On Campus Under Supervision Superior To Present System
by Harry Kuykendall

Dr. Henry Louis Smith, former President of Davidson College and one of the outstanding men in the United States today, served as the target for this week’s interview. So interesting and abundant was the information that Dr. Smith laid before the reporter, that the latter almost decided to write a biography instead of a news article, and could have easily done so.

Although there are very few students who do not know who Dr. Smith is, an introduction, we feel sure, will greatly enhance the interest of the reader. Dr. Smith, President Emeritus of Washington and Lee University, a scientist, scholar, teacher, lecturer, and author, served as president of Davidson from 1901-1912, during which time he doubled the endowment, trebled the attendance, and trebled the buildings and equipment of the college.

Coming back to the interview, the reporter was shown the way to Dr. Smith’s study, where he received a very cordial and sincere greeting, and also an invitation to make himself at home which he promptly did. Having heard the reporter's “why and wherefore”, and his explanation of the nature of his visit, Dr. Smith pushed aside an orderly pile of important-looking papers explaining that they were pages from his new volume of five books (which he intends to publish sometime in the future). Having thus prepared himself, Dr. Smith bravely waited for the verbal inquisition that took place somewhat as follows:

“Dr., in beginning, I'd like to ask you quite a few questions about your personal life. First, I believe it would be interesting to know just where you received your college education?”

“I received an A. B. degree at Davidson in 1881, an M.A. also at Davidson in 1886 as outside work. My Ph. D. degree I received at the University of Virginia in 1891, and later an LL.D degree given me by the University of North Carolina. I also spent some little time in the laboratories of Harvard and Cornell Universities”.

(Continued on Page 6, Col. 4)

Eumenean Society Presents Program
Chemistry and Physics Picture To Be Given Friday

The Eumenean Literary Society gave a return program for the students at Queens-Chicora Tuesday, April 30, in the Queen’s Auditorium. Some twenty members of the Society made the trip. The program was as follows: Field Horine gave a reading of Gordon Wood's poems, Hal Overton’s short story, One August Afternoon was read by Bob Stewart; the book Time and the River was reviewed by Tyler Port, Walter Dickson added a humorous sketch, and Harvey Ross was the feature of the program, talking on Love Life in Mexico. Afterwards, the members of the Eumenean Society were entertained at a sorority house.

MOVING PICTURE FRIDAY NIGHT

The last Chemistry and Physics moving picture of the year will be presented Friday night, May 10, in the Chemistry lecture room. There will be two shows at seven and eight o'clock. There will be four shorts presented, two of them having two reels and two having one reel. The two reeled subjects are “Seeing is Believing” and “New Skyscrapers for Old”. The one reel pictures will be, “His Master's Voice” and “The Flying Telephone”. This show is open to all students of the Chemistry and Physics departments.

Sophomores To Lead Vespers

The Sophomore Class will be in charge of the “Y” Vesper Service next Sunday. At the present time, the speakers have not been chosen, but several of the centennial’s best speakers are under consideration. Since Sunday will be Mother’s Day, this will be the theme of the service. It is planned to have one of the musical organizations of the college furnish special music for the occasion.

Popular Ex-Prexy

Dr. Henry Louis Smith, former President of Davidson College and of Washington and Lee University, whose answers to reporter’s questions reveal part he played in World War, and other facts of interest in his varied life.

Band To Begin New Concerts Tuesday
Radio Broadcast Changed From Thursday Night To Monday Afternoon

The college band opens this week a new series of concerts which will be held on Tuesday evening. The radio program has been changed to Monday afternoon. The Davidson College Concert Band presented a new series of concerts on the campus Thursday evening, May 7, at 8 o'clock. The program was as follows: “Gate City March”, by Weidon; Selections from “H.M.S. Pinafore”, Sullivan; “Jupiter”, Goldman, cornet solo by A. M. Cunningham; Beethoven's “Creation Hymn”; “The Military Band", novelty march by Yoder; Intermission: “Under The Double Eagle”, Wagner; “Straussiana Waltzes”, Soedy; “Gavotte, Louise XIII”, Ghys; “Them Basses”, Huffine; “O’ Davidson”, Shields.

Further concerts of this series will also be given on the campus near the Y. M. C. A. center. In case of inclement weather, the program will be postponed until the next Tuesday instead of being held inside as has been the custom for outdoor concerts. The new band uniforms will probably be available for the next outdoor program.

The second Davidson College broadcast of the new series went on the air at the new time of 1:00 P. M. Monday, May 6. The program consisted of selections by the Davidson College Concert Band and featured a saxophone solo by James Chrisman. The familiar strains of “O. Davidson” introduced the program, followed by the famous march “Hall of Fame” by Olivadoti. Next, the band delved into the field of light opera, playing selections from “Pinafore” by Gilbert and Sullivan. Chrisman’s solo “Berceuse” followed. After this, the trombone section of the band featured in the novelty, “Lassus Trombone”. In a religious mood, the band turned to the hymn “More Holiness Give Me”. The announcer, Grier Martin, then gave the following news items: The band will give their open-air concert of the year at 8:00 P. M. Tuesday evening. The Glee Club and Salon Orchestra are to present a home concert Friday night. Admission to both concerts will be free. All Spring athletics close at Davidson this week; the College is searching for a suitable man to replace Captain Pritchett. Following these news items, the band concluded the program with “Massachusetts Bay Tercentenary March” and “Them Basses”.

We Do All Kinds of Shoe Repairing
Let Us Serve You
BUFF SHOE SHOP

Distinguished Physicist Will Present Lecture
Dr. Olpin to Speak on Transmission of Images by Electricity At Meeting

Dr. Olpin, formerly of the Bell telephone laboratories now research director of the Kendall Mills, will speak before an open meeting of Gamma Sigma Epsilon, National Chemical Fraternity, and Sigma Pi Sigma, National Physics Fraternity, Monday night, May 13, in the Chemical Lecture Room. His topic will be photo-electric cells and transmission of images by electricity. All students will be invited to this lecture who have had one year of these subjects. Dr. Olpin is a distinguished physicist being the only man in North Carolina who is a member of the American Physical Society. These honorary fraternities have one open meeting a year at which time a prominent scientist is invited to speak. Both of these fraternities were founded at Davidson and have had rapid growth in the United States.

GAMMA SIGMA EPSILON INITIATES
Gamma SigmaEpsilon, honorary chemistry fraternity, initiated four new members on April 22. The students who were initiated are: Phifer Erwin, Gordon Green, Carleton Chapman, and Heath Howie. The fraternity elected as officers for the coming year, Bill Worton, president; Martin Barnett, secretary; Harvey Ross, treasurer; and Phifer Erwin, guard. The retiring officers are M. W. Alderman, president; C. S. McCall, secretary; E. S. Hodge, treasurer; and J. H. Batte, guard. Within the next two weeks, the members of the fraternity are planning to hold an open meeting, at which time papers on Chemistry will be read and experiments conducted for the men who are not members of Gamma Sigma Epsilon, but who are interested in chemistry.

Eta Sigma Phi Chooses New Members Friday

“Run tt...”

AT THE LOCAL THEATRE

Classroom Jokes Prove To Be Drowning Yowl’s Straw

Wednesday, May 8
PRIVATE WORLDS
The theme deals with the idea that each and every one of us lives in a little private world of his own, crowded with inhibitions, frustrations, secret loves, etc. The story itself is unreeled in a hospital which houses mental defectives. The tale abounds in love, intrigue, and suspense, and rips the veil from us poor mortals, showing how petty we can be. Claudette Colbert performs as the woman doctor who trifles with love.

Thursday and Friday, May 9 and 10
STAR AT MIDNIGHT
This detective yarn is guaranteed to give you a brain strain and cause plenty of chair-gripping. There are a couple of mysterious murders which sleuth Powell unravels with ease and good humor. Ginger Rogers tries to impress Powell with her potentialities as a female Holmes.

Saturday, May 11
McFADDEN’S FLATS
Plenty of laughs and maybe a sniffle in this story of the girl (Betty Furness) who goes away to school and comes back high-hatting her family and neighbors. Walter C. Kelly is good as a hod-carrier king. Dick Cromwell is the sweetheart.

Monday and Tuesday, May 13 and 14
THE SCARLET PIMPERNEL
Leslie Howard is at his best as a courageous young Englishman posing as a fop in order to rescue Frenchmen from the guillotine. Merle Oberon is smooth as his wife. A swift, colorful, adventure film.

Eta Sigma Phi honorary classical fraternity extended bids to sixteen sophomores at its meeting last Friday night. The men who received bids were J. D. Allen, R. S. Bigham, W. H. Boggs, F. A. Brown, E. F. Horine, P. Moffett, S. Moffett, A. T. Port, R. R. Purdy, K. M. Scott, F. S. Poe, R. B. Stewart, E. D. Turner, J. S. Winn, R. H. Robinson, and L. C. Vass. Professor Bailey spoke to the fraternity members on the history of medicine.

Glee Club Elects Ross And Ramseur Officers

Harvey Ross was elected president of the Glee Club at its regular practice session Wednesday afternoon. At the same time, Charles Ramseur was elected vice-president, Mack Cuthey librarian, and Carleton Chapman business manager. These officers will serve as leaders for the Glee Club during the coming year. The president was elected by vote of the whole club from among the rising senior members. Harvey Ross has served for three years as a member of both the Glee Club and the Salon Orchestra, and has done outstanding work in both. The new officers will succeed the following men who were the officers for the past year: Mills Taylor, president; Lorenzo McPhail, business manager; and Kenneth Scott, librarian.

Coit And McMullen Make Deputations

Frank Brown and John McMullen Attend State Student Volunteer Council

The Davidson Y. M. C. A. sponsored two deputations in charge of Bob Coit and John McMullen this week. John McMullen, accompanied by Frank Brown, attended the spring retreat of the State Student Volunteer Council held in Mt. Brushy, near North Wilkesboro. Plans were made for the coming year’s program, and the Quadrennial Conference to be held at Indianapolis, Indiana during the Christmas holidays, was discussed. In the February elections of the Council, McMullen and Brown were elected to the posts of president and head of deputation work, respectively. Bob Coit led the second deputation to the Presbyterian Church Rev. Charles A. Harper in Charlotte. Bill Bell led the devotional exercises and Kenneth Scott spoke on one of the phases of Christian work in China. Warren Babcock furnished special music with a cello accompanied by Professor Bailey. After the business of an annual picture was discussed, Professor Bailey's speech was followed by a feed.

Professors Find Niches As Campus Gagmen; Anxious World Awaits Results

Beaten to the wall, utterly exhausted by a year's struggle for humor, the retiring Yowl! staff, headed by the chief Yowler, Lorenzo McPhail, gives up and turns to the faculty for inspiration and succor. And the feature of the next example of humor will be the favorite of professors on the faculty. McPhail, McLeod, McOverton, and McWyche all in unison say that the faculty has the Student Body entirely outclassed in the field of humor, humor—as the elite pronounce it.

The perpetration of the foul deed took place Tuesday, although the murder has been planned for weeks. And the results will appear May 15, we hope. Honorably, Gordon “Skip” Brown has labelled it with the final “Yowl!” cover of his career. The campus heaves a sigh of relief. McPhail says it is not any good and McPhail is modest. Wyche says it's worse than McPhail says it is. In it, there will be a Senior questionnaire, timely placed so the answers won't have to be printed. Overton and Calloway dropped ink all over it, we are informed by the Editor. They were aided in this by Richard Vowles and Sam Ryburn. There will be the usual wisecracks about commencement, the breadline, and looking at the world through a rolled-up diploma, so we are informed. The summer sports section will be handled by Bob Johnson and the musical squirts will be done up by Howard Dyer. It will hold twenty pages, not including the cover, and in it will be engraved the name of the guy who thinks his joke is original.

Four Out of Five College Men Come To Nunn-Bush Ankle-fashioned styles.

Men’s Shoes Street Floor

OXFORDS FOR MEN

IT’S THE THINGS YOU CAN'T SEE THAT REALLY COUNT!

Some forty extra operations go into every pair of Nunn-Bush shoes to make them fit comfortably and keep their shape. Style and comfort last! Ankle-fashioned oxfords neither gap nor slip at the heel.

WHITE BUCK OXFORDS

This is one of the more popular styles for young men this summer. It’s the smart wing-tipped model shown here in genuine buckskin that seems to be the toast of the season. You'll like the fit of these Nunn-Bush oxfords, too.

WHITE BUCK OXFORDS

Another very popular style is shown here in a plain toe oxford also of genuine buckskin. You may have your choice of the two styles and yet have the same guarantee of comfort and smartness in both. Ankle-fashioned oxfords FIT!

Unless you're a shoe expert you can't see them. But you don’t have to be an expert to feel the difference when you wear the shoes.

Men’s Shoes Street Floor