2 THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 16

STUDENTS HOLD SPIRITED RALLY
Frosh Shirt-Tail Parade Climaxed By Mammoth Pep Meeting

Seven-thirty Friday night, and old Shearer rang with the shouts of all the classes, impatient for the fireworks to start. Then cheerleader Joe Dees mounted the platform, surrounded by his four aides, and a hush descended on the hall. It was the unanimous opinion of the rear half of the gathering that red caps were not present in the desired numbers, so, at the behest of leader Dees, upperclassmen scattered in every direction, and soon this deficiency was repaired. Their numbers augmented by these newcomers, the Frosh entered into the spirit of the occasion, until came the gladsome news that a line would form on the outside. Here, led by runners with flares, began the first shirt-tail parade of the season. Upperclassmen dodged behind trees and each other to escape the coils of the serpentine line which zig-zagged round the “D” and broke up before the steps of Chambers. Here were more yells, and the singing of “O Davidson.”

College Program Given Over WBT Last Friday

The weekly half-hour program over station WBT, Charlotte, was broadcast last Friday beginning at five o'clock. The Davidson band, under the direction of Professor Pfohl, filled the major portion of the program, and news of the campus was presented by Grier Martin. The regular period for this broadcast is between four-thirty and five o'clock on Thursday, and will be at that time hereafter. The change last week was due to the Navy-Virginia football game which was on the air at that time last week. The program included: “O Davidson,” “Hall of Fame”—Olivadoti; Selection from “The Merry Widow”—Lehar; “Cheerio” (march)—Goldman; “Drink to Me Only With Thine Eyes”; “A Military Band” (Singing Novelty)—Yoder; Selection from “H. M. S. Pinafore”—Sullivan; “O Davidson.”

Early English Bibles Displayed In Library

An exhibit on the first floor of the library this month brings to mind the history that was enacted four hundred years ago when a fearless group of men were staking all in an attempt to bring the Bible even to the “man behind the plow.” Miles Coverdale succeeded for he started the flame of curiosity and interest that produced one translation after another in the following years. Dr. Cumming worked on the exhibit that appears in the library, while the material was gathered from the libraries of professors and from the American Bible Society. For the past two years, he has placed a series of different subjects on display. The show cases present an opportunity to students and friends to share the unusual and rare items that they may possess. The Bible appears in several languages, but it would take hundreds of books to include all translations now written. Greek and Hebrew Bibles give an idea of the original tongues in which it was written.

(Continued on Page 6)

MINISTERIAL STUDENTS MEET

The Ministerial Band opened their season for this year with the initial meeting two weeks ago. On this occasion, Dr. McFadyen, an alumnus of Davidson College and also a noted missionary from China, gave an address to the members. At this meeting, the band decided to take over duties as ushers in the First Presbyterian Church, of which Dr. Moffett is pastor. They will begin their work this coming Sunday morning. At the next meeting of the band, Professor Schenck will speak, it is hoped, and also there will be an installation of two new men. Everyone is urged to be present at this time.

Morning Fire Damages ‘CLUB’; Now Reoccupied

The Club, a special dormitory housing the overflow of students from the college dormitories, the former home of Dr. Foreman, was damaged by a fire caused by sparks from the chimney falling on the shingle roof, early Tuesday morning, October 1. All the property was saved, and the students have been living in the vacant Fraternity Court, in the old gymnasium, and in homes out in town. College authorities estimated the damage at $750, and repairs were begun at once. Most of the house has been reoccupied, all but four of the students returning last weekend.

F. R. Seeks Opinion Of Dr. T. W. Lingle
President Wishes Views on Governmental Action

Dr. T. W. Lingle, Davidson history professor, recently received a letter from President F. D. Roosevelt requesting his views upon the present governmental actions. Roosevelt stated that he had turned to the clergymen because he felt that no other group could give a more accurate and unbiased view regarding the matters upon which he wished help, and because no other group saw the problems of the people with a wiser and more sympathetic understanding. Similar letters were mailed to ministers throughout the United States by the President. Especially important among these matters was the Social Security Legislation. This law has been recently enacted and provides for old age pensions, aid for crippled children, and unemployment insurance. He stated that he wished this law carried out with the high purpose with which it was erected and enacted. To do this, he asked Dr. Lingle to write.

(Continued on Page 6)

Opening Dances Held in Armory

(Continued from Page 1)

Those visiting the Pi Kappa Alpha house during the weekend were: Alice Hester, Goldston; Eleanor Neuriham, Salisbury; Alice Reeves, Charlotte; and Hazel Crest, Asheville. Kappa Alpha: Macie Ballard, Gastonia; Marie DuBose, Spartanburg; Elizabeth Henkle, Charlotte; Louisa Rankin, Fayetteville; Mary Sanders, Roxboro. Pi Kappa Phi: Dot Baker, Charlotte; Virginia Foster, Charlotte; Irene Gifford, Southern Pines; Irene Maples, Southern Pines; Lib Maynard, Florence, S. C.; and Dot Nussich, Charlotte. Sigma Alpha Epsilon: Bessie Armfield, Asheboro; Betty Bahnson, Winston-Salem; Waulla Buckley, Charlotte; Mary Jane Eager, Jackson, Miss.; Elizabeth Efird, Charlotte; Ann Efird, Charlotte; Jane Washagen, Gastonia; Rose Ann Howard, Florence, S. C.; and Ann Little, Charlotte. Kappa Sigma: Sarah Finger, King’s Mountain; Adelaide Fortune, Greensboro; Katherine O’Fannell, King’s Mountain; Margie Robinson, Lowell. Phi Gamma Delta: Wilheminia Croslin, Monroe, N. C.; Jean Robinson, Jennettsville, S. C.; Marjorie Robinson, Lowell. Phi Delta Theta: Miss Johnnie Walker, Charlotte; Miss Catherine Thompson, Greensboro; Elizabeth Graham, Black Mountain; Julia Pickett, Cheraw, S. C.; Corinne Timber, Darlington, S. C.; Estelle Montgomery, Columbia, S. C.; Nell Sadler, Charlotte; Margaret Davis, Wilmington, N. C.; and Martha Gettysburg, Charlotte. Sigma Phi Epsilon: Margaret Donahoo, Charlotte; Mary Dubs, Charlotte; Mary McBrair, Charlotte; Martha McNeely, Charlotte; Mary Mickley, Charlotte; Beverly Moore, Bennettsville, S. C.; Jean Orr, Charlotte; Mary Smith, Rocky Mount; Jane Ellen Taylor, Charlotte; and Mildred Young, Charlotte.

M. H. GOODRUM & CO.
TAILOR-MADE
Groceries—Dry Goods
Hardware—Radio Supplies
PHILCO AND GRUNOW RADIOS

HAIRCUTS
Norton’s Barber Shop
NORTON AND CIDROAM
Proprietors

Bill Link and Wade Boggs went to the CCC camp at Huntersville where they conducted the Sunday morning service. Mr. D. K. Miller, who graduated from Davidson in 1930, is the commanding officer of this camp. This past Sunday, Doctor Forman journeyed to Thomasville, North Carolina, and preached at the First Presbyterian Church. He conducted both the morning and evening services. Dewitt Helm, Davidson alumnus, is the pastor. Last Wednesday night, the Davidson High School Hi-Y Club, at its regular weekly meeting, formally inducted into its membership the following: Thomas Withers, George Withers, James Willis, Bill Wood, and Kenneth Foreman. The meeting was presided over by Lewis Parker, the club's president, who issued to the new members the following pledge: “I hereby pledge all of the energies of my body, mind, and spirit to the fulfillment of the purpose and platform” which is “To create, maintain and extend throughout school and community high standards of Christian Character and Clean Speech, Clean Sports, Clean Scholarship and Clean Living.” This club is under the direction of Marion Bryant.

War Attracts D. C. Students
Salango Versus Hassell Figure In Ethiopian Tangle

Davidson broke into the headlines Tuesday, when Benito Mussolini seemingly made a special trans-oceanic trip. His request was read publicly in chapel. Announced—Il Duce: “Signor Benito Mussolini desires to see J. Salange—in front of the Senior section immediately after chapel, concerning the Ethiopian situation.” Not to be outdone, and also, undoubtedly, to estimate the worth of Davidson's sons, the student body was informed the following morning that, “Captain J. W. Hassell, Commanding Officer of ‘C’ Company, commissioned by his Imperial Majesty, King of Kings, Conquering Lion of Judah, Haile Selassie, to command a regiment of volunteers along the Ethiopian frontier. Commander Hassell will leave for the front tonight.” The following statement was read before the student body, Wednesday morning: “After conferring at great length with Signor Benito Mussolini, Tuesday, in front of the Senior section, it was decided to enlist a regiment of men from the Davidson Student Body for the purpose of exterminating the black menace. This was signed: J. W. Hassell. Salango, Chief enlisting officer, commissioned by Il Magnificenntissimo Duce, Signor Benito Mussolini.” Mr. Salango, however, found himself short of equipment, and the following day advertised that anyone in possession of a black shirt please report to his quarters at once. Thursday evening, it was announced, a spaghetti dinner, for organizing the forces, and a sock knitting, for the purpose of supplying the anaemic Mussolinites with socks would be held in Jimmy Salango’s room. (ON YE ROMAN EAGLE!)

Special Despatches follow

WITH THE ETHIOPIAN FORCES, NORTHERN FRONT: SPECIAL DISPATCH TO DAVIDSONIAN: Oct. 10, J. O. Lafferty’sApplication to enlist in Emperor Haile Selassie’s forces has been rejected. We extend our condolences to the Davidson Student Body.

WITH THE ETHIOPIAN FORCES, SOUTHERN FRONT: Oct. 10.

Georgia Alumni Gather In Atlanta
President Harlle Branch, Jr., ’07, Will Preside

The Davidson Alumni meeting to be held in Atlanta on Friday, October 18th, will be the biggest of its kind ever to be held, according to Grier Martin, Alumni Secretary. Davidson graduates in the state of Georgia, more than 200 in all, have been invited, and local committees have been formed all over the state to help arrange for the gathering. The meeting will be held at 6:30 P.M. in the Henry Grady Hotel. Mr. F.L. Jackson, treasurer of the college, Mr. Hugh Query, President of the Alumni Association, and Mr. Martin will attend, and expect to catch the midnight train back to be here for the Carolina game, Saturday. Pictures of the Davidson vs. South Carolina game will probably be shown at the meeting.

The Atlanta chapter has been having monthly luncheons ever since their last meeting and are regarded as the most active of all the alumni groups. Mr. Harlle Branch, 1907, is president of the organization, and Mr. Ed McNair, class of 1933, is secretary. Jack Branch, a junior at Davidson this year, is an elder brother of Harlle Branch.

At a meeting held Thursday and Friday, October 3 and 4, the graduates in and around Charlottesville, Virginia formed a Charlottesville chapter and elected the following officers: President, Mr. Dwight Chalmers, class of 1920; Vice-President, Mr. Hugh Hawkins, class of 1934; Secretary and Treasurer, Mr. G. T. Preer, class of 1920. About twenty-two members were present, including Captain Pritchett, now athletic director at the University of Virginia at Charlottesville, Mr. F.L. Jackson, Mr. F.L. Blythe, new athletic director at Davidson, and Grier Martin. One of the first official functions of the chapter was the entertaining of the Davidson football team on Friday night before the Virginia game.

Charlotte Minister to Conduct Next Vespers

The Vesper Service in the Building next Sunday, October 20, will be conducted by Dr. James F. Hardie, pastor of the Second Presbyterian Church of Charlotte, N.C. Dr. Hardie is a native of Alabama but has spent the major part of his life in Texas. He was graduated from the University of Texas and obtained his Master of Arts degree there. He was pastor of the First Presbyterian Church in Houston, Texas, before he went to Charlotte. He is a trustee of the Union Theological Seminary in Richmond, Virginia, and of the General Assembly of Southern Presbyterian Churches. The Glee Club will take its usual part in the service by giving the devotionals.

Davidson's men, however, were reported to be doing better with Duce’s forces. It is rumored that James Salango has distinguished himself already in the capture of Adigrat by uttering war whoops. Mr. Salango's merit as a tenor is being appreciated, and he expects soon to be the Harry Lauder (or should we say Mme. Schumann-Heink) of the Italian forces. Signor Benito (Salango calls him “Ben”) Mussolini, asked Jimmy recently if he could throw his voice.

BOARD AT THE DAVIDSON HOTEL AND Keep Your Guests Here Over The Week-End

Commencement Invitations
Fraternity Publications
1143 E. FOURTH ST.
Lamont Brown Fine Printing
QUEEN CITY PRINTING Co.
Representatives
Visiting Cards
Personal and Fraternity Stationery
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
R. P. Morrow

Town TATTLER

The Davidson Music Club held its first meeting of the year Tuesday evening, Oct. 8 at the Civic Hall. The topic for the program was “Minuets and Waltzes.” Mrs. Mattie Murphy was leader of the program and Mrs. P.L. Gwynn, the accompanist. Officers for the year are: Mrs. Murphy, president; Miss Orrie Steele, vice-president; Mrs. W. Hamrick, secretary; and Miss Bonnie Shelton, treasurer.

Mr. and Mrs. Gregg Black, and daughter, Bettie, left for Florida after visiting several weeks with Col. and Mrs. John Rhett. Mr. and Mrs. Savage, and little daughter, Jane, are guests in the home of Mr. and Mrs. J. R. Withers.

The Davidson Hi-Y held its formal initiation Wednesday evening, Oct. 9, at 7:30 o'clock. The following boys were initiated: George Withers, Thomas Withers, James Willis, Kenneth Foreman, and Bill Wood. The student supervisor for the local Hi-Y is Marion Bryant, of the sophomore class.

Rev. and Mrs. Harry Moffett, of Jefferson City, Tenn., spent the week-end with Mr. Moffett's parents, Dr. and Mrs. H. M. Moffett. Rev. and Mrs. Harry Moffett were married in Memphis, Tenn., Thursday afternoon, Oct. 3.

Dr. W. L. Lingle Speaks On Italian Conditions

Dr. Walter L. Lingle spoke to the Men's Club of the Second Presbyterian Church in Charlotte last Monday night at 6:15 P.M., taking for his subject his trip through Italy this past summer. The main part of his talk was devoted to some of its cities, but more in particular with the man Benito Mussolini. A bird's eye view of his whole trip was given first. He sailed on the Comte di Savoia going by way of the Straits of Gibraltar to Naples, to Rome, Heidelberg, a few points of interest in Switzerland, England, thence returning home. Dr. Lingle stated that “Mussolini's efficiency is in evidence everywhere in Italy. During the past few years, the government, business, railroad service, hotel service, and many other features of Italian life have been completely reorganized under his leadership.” “There is enthusiasm everywhere in Italy for Mussolini.” While in Naples, Dr. Lingle said many soldiers and much military equipment were in appearance and that the people with whom he talked seemed to be in full harmony with Mussolini’s campaign in Africa. In his closing talk Dr. Lingle said: “Notwithstanding the fact that Mussolini has done a great deal for Italy, I am convinced that dictators in the long run are bad for any country and a menace for the people of the world. America may well rejoice in her representative form of government and in civil and religious liberty.”

Continued on Page 6

Miller Cochran, son of Major and Mrs. F.M. Cochran, was one of a class of sixty-seven flying cadets graduated Saturday from air corps advanced school at Kelly Field, Texas.

Mrs. John Rhett was hostess Friday afternoon to the Thelemite Club at its regular meeting. Mrs. H. S. Steele gave a paper on “Porto Rico.”

Mr. Mannie S. Savage visited relatives in Davidson during the week.

Mr. Warren Babcock, assistant music director at the College, is organizing and directing a high school orchestra of 18 pieces.

Men’s Topcoats At Belk’s

Double or Single Breasteds! Polo Models! Half-Belts! Fine, Warm Coatings! Set-in and Raglan Sleeves!

The Twentieth Century Club met Friday afternoon with Mrs. J. C. Pfohl. Mrs. S. P. Stough gave a paper on modern political developments.

Of course, there is nothing Jimmy cannot do with his voice, so Ben asked him to...

Announcement extraordinary: In order to settle, once and for all, the question as to who are the best hand-to-hand fighters, the Italians or the...

(Continued on Page 6)

MONEY NO OBJECT IF IT’S A QUESTION OF HEALTH

Since 1799 thousands of people have regained their normal health after years of suffering from stomach troubles of all types, such as constipation, indigestion, gas, and sour stomach which are the basic factors of such maladies as high blood pressure, rheumatism, periodic headaches, pimples on face and body, pains in the back, liver, kidney and bladder disorder, exhaustion, loss of sleep and appetite. Those sufferers have not used any man-made injurious chemicals or drugs of any kind; they have only used a remedy made by Nature. This marvelous product grows on the highest mountain peaks, where it absorbs all the healing elements and vitamins from the sun to aid HUMANITY in distress. It is composed of 19 kinds of natural leaves, seeds, berries and flowers scientifically and proportionately mixed and is known as LION CROSS HERB TEA. LION CROSS HERB TEA tastes delicious, acts wonderfully upon your system and is safe even for children. Prepare it fresh like any ordinary tea and drink a glassful once a day, hot or cold. A one dollar treatment accomplishes WONDERS; makes you look and feel like new born. If you are not as yet familiar with the beneficial effects of this natural remedy LION CROSS HERB TEA try it at once and convince yourself. If not satisfactory money refunded to you. Try it and convince yourself with our money-back guarantee. One Week Treatment $1.00. Six Weeks Treatment $5.00.

In order to avoid mistakes in getting the genuine LION CROSS HERB TEA, please fill out the attached coupon.

Lio-Pharmacy, 1180 Second Ave., N. Y. City, N. Y.

Gentlemen: Enclosed find $.............. for which please send me .............. treatments of the famous LION CROSS HERB TEA.

Name: ..........................................
Address: ........................................