SOPHOMORES WILL SPONSOR DANCES OVER WEEK-END

SOPHOMORE EDITION

Che Mavbidsonian

ALEN DA LUX U ORTA LIBERTAS

CAMPAIGN FOR “Y” CHRISTMAS FUND GETS UNDER WAY

VOL. XXIII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., DECEMBER 12, 1935 NUMBER 11

DAVIDSON Pht, PEAKS SUNDAY TO THOUSANDS

Two Thousand Persons Gather At Charlotte Auditorium Sunday Afternoon

R. L. OWNBEY PRESIDES

400th Anniversary of English Printed Bible Inaugurated

Dr. W. L. Lingle, president of Davidson College, delivered the address at the celebration of the 400th anniversary of the
printing of the Bible in the English language before two thousand persons gathered at the Charlotte Armory-Auditorium last Sunday afternoon.
The meeting was under the auspices of the Mecklenburg Ministerial Association, with Dr. R. L. Ownbey, president of this association,
presiding. The Davidson College band under the leadership of Prof. James Pfohl rendered several hymns, and a capella choir of
Central High School sang the Hallelujah chorus. Rev. W. H. Frazer, president of Queens Chicora College, introduced Dr. Lingle, who
spoke on the “History and Influence of the English Bible.”

The speaker traced the origin of the Bible, beginning with Moses, 500 years before Christ, and closing with John, 100
years after the death of Christ. He said that the Bible had been translated into Greek before the time of
Christ, and the New Testament was written in Greek. Dr. Lingle said the first English scriptures were written by Venerable
Bede in 735 A.D., and King Alfred translated some more of the Bible in 900. John Wycliff presented the Anglo-Saxon
version in 1383, while in 1525, William Tyndale translated the New Testament into English and printed it. Ten years later
Miles Coverdale published the first complete printed translation of the Bible into English. The minister stated that the Bible had
a great influence in English history, and cited several vivid examples showing the truth of his statement. Many American writers
use the Bible as a background for their works. He attributed the backbone of the moral character of the English-speaking
people to their study of God’s word. The Puritan movement found its rise in the Bible, and the settlement of
North America was due to the search for God. Dr. Lingle closed with a description of the spiritual power of
the Bible, which, he said, meant more than literary and moral influence. His last words were “the Bible needs no
defense, all we need to do is to preach it, to read it, and bring it into the lives of
our children.”

French Club Members Give Play At Meeting

In the last meeting of Le Cercle Francais, held Tuesday night, November 19th, at Dr. Watts’ home, business matters of
the club were discussed and this was followed by a scene from the French play Knock. The part of Knock,
the doctor, was played by Val Cassels and his two patients were Ralph McClelland and Sam Cothran. Following the play,
refreshments were served by Mrs. Watts, and with the singing of a few French songs, the meeting was adjourned. The
next meeting will be held at 7:00 P.M., Tuesday night the seventeenth. The meeting will be featured by the reading
of a French scriptural story by Henry Eve, a French narrative by Jim Cothran and a double quartet, directed by
Val Cassels, featuring Frank Tucker as soloist. The string ensemble will furnish the music for the French Club Christmas Finale.
Dr. Watts will relate some French stories and Professor Bailey will render a few piano selections. Proposed trips to Winthrop,
Converse, N.C.C.W., and possibly Greensboro College are planned for the after Christmas program. The details are not yet complete but
the cast including Wade Barrow, Mrs. Grier Martin, Frank Poe, Woodrow Hassel, Dick Vowles, and others, will soon begin rehearsals
on the play.

PRELUDE BEFORE THE STORM

Here have we the boys of Georgia lending themselves to music, aided by the Georgia Band, just before the boys
decided to come to Watts and show their lack of Symphony with them. One short hour after this peaceful scene,
Georgia was washing first floor Watts in retaliation for the humiliating attack by Watts Friday. As “Rats” and “Tea Hounds”
renew furious feud—Page 1, Col. 3.

PLAN Y SERVICE FOR CHRISTMAS

Music To Be Main Feature Of Most Impressive Vesper Service of Year

The Y.M.C.A. Christmas Vesper Service, described by "Mac" McClure, Y secretary, as the “most impressive service of the year,” will
be held in Chambers’ Auditorium this year on Sunday, December 15, at 6:45 P.M. The program will include selections by
Davidson salon orchestra, glee club, and symphonic band, selected scripture readings by Tyler Port, and a tenor solo by Mr.
Franklin Riker, vocal instructor at Davidson. The audience will join in the singing of several well-known Christmas carols. The service
will be concluded with the benediction by Dr. Kenneth J. Foreman and the choral amen by the glee club. A
half hour of the program, from seven to seven-thirty, will be broadcast over Columbia station WBT. Every year these programs
have added some feature, and they attract many people from the outside. Last year, the first year that the programs
were broadcasted, approximately twelve hundred people attended. The decoration of Chambers Building for this service will be as in former
years; that is, an appropriate distribution of evergreens and candles in the auditorium, with all of the electric lights turned
out. Many people have expressed the belief that this lends an atmosphere to the gathering which could be provided in
no other way. The program will be conducted almost entirely by the students themselves. The only participation by members of
the faculty will be the direction of the musical numbers by Professor James C. Pfohl and the pronouncing of the
benediction by Dr. Foreman.

NEWS IN BRIEF

1. Georgia and Watts feud—Page 1, Col. 3.
2. Sophomores make plans for big week-end—Page 1, Col. 4.
3. Phi Beta Kappa will have initiations for new men—Page 1, Col. 4.
4. Y.M.C.A. Christmas Vespers scheduled in Chambers auditorium, December 15. An impressive program will be rendered—Page 1, Col. 2.
5. Soccer Team redeems self by defeating strong Charlotte team. Sports Page, Col. 6.
6. Wedgwood plate commemorates Davidson Centennial Celebration—Page 5, Col. 4.

Dusk Defeats Aspirations

Photographers Abernathy and Squires caught this idyllic picture. As “Tea Hounds” nobly fight scoreless tie. Hounds shine in first half
but Rats take second period.

HOSE BOWL CROWD

Georgia and Watts Bury Annual Hatchet—We Hope

A scoreless tie marked the final gridiron classic of the year played on Richardson Field yesterday afternoon, when the Georgia
rats and the Watts tea-hounds barked at each other for two hours in vain on a damp but firm field.
Georgia made the strongest threat toward the end of the game, having the ball on their enemy's seven-yard line when
the final whistle blew. The first quarter opened as Cline, of Watts, kicked off to Georgia, defending the south goal.
Georgia fumbled on receiving the kick, and then began a half which was all in Watts’ favor. On the third
play of the game, Georgia recovered the ball by intercepting a pass from the hands of Tipton, the hound back.
After failing to bring a first down nearer than ten yards, Georgia decided to punt, and Joe Johnson got one
off from his own eighteen. Cokey Branton, who tripped on a bad pass from center, and Georgia recovered. (Continued on
Page 6)

SOPHOMORES SHINE AS HOSTS IN THEIR ANNUAL DANCES

Sophomores Celebrate Not Being Freshmen in Gala Week-End Dec. 13-14

LEFTWICH WILL PLAY

Men of ’38 Sponsor Three Dances In Charlotte

With their annual week-end only two days off, the Sophomore Class of Davidson College is making plans for one of
the largest and best house parties ever given. A committee consisting of representatives from the nine social fraternities is planning
to provide a week-end that will do credit to the class of 1938. Jelly Leftwich has been secured to play
for this week-end. This orchestra recently played this past winter at the Belvedere Hotel in Baltimore; and the Bellevue Stratford
Hotel in Philadelphia; while this summer he played at Virginia Beach. A few week-ends ago he alternated with Tommy Dorsey
at the Fall German Dances at the University of North Carolina. He is playing at present on the Shell Radio
Program.

Sophomore week-end will start Friday night, December 13, with a formal dance at the Charlotte Armory. This affair will start
promptly at ten and will continue until two o'clock. A feature of the dance will be the unique figure to
be led by “Teeny” Lafferty and his date Miss Caddie Willis. The committee has made arrangements to decorate the Armory
and extensive plans have been made to give the huge building a festive atmosphere. The motif of royal purple and
gold, the class colors, will prevail at the Armory. On Saturday Jelly Leftwich will again play at the Charlotte Armory.
This affair will begin at four o'clock and will continue until seven that afternoon.night. The third dance of the series
will be Saturday night from eight-thirty until twelve o'clock, featured by several no-breaks and novelty songs. Miss Kay Keever, who
does the torch singing, has been with Leftwich for the past two years and proves to be more popular every
time she sings. In last Sunday's edition of the Charlotte Observer, there were pictures of nine girls who will be
the sponsors of the week-end. The following girls will act as sponsors for the Sophomore Dance: Miss Caddie Willis, Concord,
with “Teeny” Lafferty; Miss Esther Hambley, Salisbury, with Jim Dorsett; Miss Rose Rogers, Greensboro, with “Chubby” King; Miss Sue Butte,
Concord, with Fred Dennis; Miss Sarah Hale, Rogersville, Tenn., with Lyons; Miss Margaret Smith, Florence, S.C., with Setty Shull; Miss
Charlotte, with Yates (Continued on Page 6).

The Rev. Charles W. Worth Speaks At Chapel Services

Missionary From China, Who Will Receive The ‘“Y” Gift, Visits Campus

The Rev. Charles W. Worth, who will receive the Y.M.C.A. Christmas Gift Fund this year, arrived at Davidson on Monday
night, December 9, and spoke to the student body at the regular chapel services yesterday and today. He will give
an illustrated lecture at the Prayer Meeting tonight at the Davidson Presbyterian Church, explaining his work. The goal for this
year’s gift has been set at $650 and a systematic canvass of the student body to raise the money will
begin tonight and last through Friday, December 13.

Mr. Worth is a Presbyterian missionary living in Hangchow, China, and serves a large mountain district west of Hangchow. He,
with his wife, has been engaged in active missionary work in China for eleven years and has been stationed at
his present post since 1933.

In chapel Tuesday morning, he said that in the past two years, he has traveled all over this district on
foot, preaching to the people, distributing Christian literature, and making friends among the natives. He is the only white man
ever to enter this district, and he says that the people are friendly, but that they are filled with curiosity
and suspicion concerning foreigners. Their attitude toward the Gospel is one of total ignorance, but an interested group has formed
to study the Bible, using it as a textbook in learning to read.

The Rev. Mr. Worth was born at Wusih, Kiangsu Province, China, in 1897. He entered Davidson in 1915, quitting after
the completion of his Junior year to serve a year in the Army and re-entering to graduate in 1920. While
at Davidson College, he was President of the Junior Class, a member of Omicron Delta Kappa, national honorary leadership fraternity,
and a member of the Kappa Alpha social fraternity.

Fifteen To Receive Keys at Phi Beta Kappa Initiation

Cat Booters and Dukes Battle To Thrilling 0-0 Tie

The Wildcats soccer team was held to a scoreless tie by the Duke Blue Devils in a rough, exciting game
played here Tuesday afternoon. The Wildcats scrapped until the final whistle and threatened to score but lacked the final punch
to push it through. The uncoached and unsupported Wildcats fought the highly touted Dukes in truly traditional style and all
the spectators agreed that they deserve several times as much credit. For the Wildcats, Haake, Bell, Bixler, Vogler, and J.
Cothran played brilliantly, while Carden, Ambler, Hink, Thomas, and Fuller played well for the Devils in their final game. On
Thursday and Saturday of this week, the Cats meet Furman and Clemson respectively here at Davidson.

CONCERT GIVEN BY KATE FIELD

New York Soprano Features Second Concert of Davidson College Series

The Davidson College Concert Series presented Miss Kate Keith Field, soprano from New York, in the second concert of this
year’s series in Chambers Building last Monday night, December ninth at eight o'clock. Miss Field was accompanied by Louise Nelson
Pfohl.

Miss Field offered a varied and interesting program. Several types of voice literature were represented during the night. The group
of modern songs was especially appealing to the audience. Miss Field had a very successful appearance in New York last
spring. The many favorable notices given her prove that she is an outstanding young singer. Miss Field opened the program
with Mozart’s “Giunse al fin il Momento” from “The Marriage of Figaro.” This was followed by “Verborgenheit” by Wolf, two
selections by Brahms, and three by Schubert. “Wiegenlied” and “Vergebliches Standchen” were written by the former and “Standchen,” “Du Bist
Die Ruh,” and “Ungeduld” by the latter. After intermission, Miss Field resumed (Continued on Page 6).

Six Debaters Selected At Freshmen Tryouts

Debate tryouts for the Freshman team were held Friday night, December 6, in the American Hall. Of the sixteen freshmen
contestants, Joe Calvin, Kenneth McLean, Sherrod Allan, and Steele Rice were selected as regulars, and David Newbold and Archie Torrey
as alternates. Judges of the debates were Wade Boggs, Charles Mauze, Tyler Port, Robert Stewart, and Harold Sugg—members of the
varsity debating squad.

The Freshman topic for the tryouts was the same as the varsity topic: “Resolved that Congress should be permitted by
a two-thirds majority vote to override a decision of the Supreme Court, declaring a law unconstitutional.” The affirmative and the
negative sides had the same number of defenders. At the conclusion of the debates, presided over by Fitzhugh Dade, the
judges retired from the hall to select the winners, returning an hour and a half later to render the decision,
given by Harold Sugg.

The Freshman team will have more chance for practice this year than previously, as there will be two debates, one
on and one off the campus. Efforts are being made to renew the Freshman debating triangle of Davidson, Carolina, and
Wake Forest for this coming year.

Eight Scholastic Leaders Among Those To Be Initiated Thursday Afternoon

ROBERTSON TO SPEAK

Honor Seven Former Members Of Mimir Society

The annual fall initiation of the Gamma Chapter of Phi Beta Kappa, national scholastic fraternity, will be held on Thursday,
December 12 at 5:30 o'clock. A banquet will follow immediately after the initiation.

The students who have been extended bids and will be initiated are: J. W. Hassell, M. J. Barnett, J. M.
Walker, J. G. Ross, C. B. Chapman, F. M. Toole, C. G. Smith, and A. L. Bulwinkle. These names are
listed in the order of their scholastic standings.

Seven Davidson alumni also received bids. All of these men were former members of the Mimir Society at Davidson, a
scholastic group which existed before the Phi Beta Kappa Chapter was founded here. These men are: Dr. R. J. Boulware,
Jr., a physician in Florida; Dr. C. Brown, of the Davidson College faculty; Dr. J. S. Brown, Jr., a physician
in Hendersonville, N.C.; Mr. J. E. Cassell, who is engaged in the life insurance business in Concord and a member
of the Athletic Committee; K. P. Cumming, of the Davidson faculty; Mr. J. C. McCaskill of Falls Church, Va., who
holds a government position; and Mr. A. F. Ficker of Birmingham, Mich., who is engaged in business with the Ethyl
Company. Dr. Boulware will not be present nor will Mr. Ficker. Dr. Boulware went to the University of Virginia upon
his graduation from Davidson and was made a Phi Beta Kappa there while studying medicine. This was unknown to the
local chapter when the bids were extended.

Dr. David A. Robertson will speak at the banquet which follows the initiation and will also address the student body
at the chapel exercises the same morning. The public is cordially invited to his morning talk. Dr. Robertson is the
president of Goucher College, Chairman of the Phi Beta Kappa Committee on new chapters, and one of the senators of
the organization. He is a popular speaker as well as a scholarly one. He holds an A.B. degree from the
University of (Continued on Page 6).

Rhodes Scholarships Group Meets Dec. 12

The state Scholarship Selection Committee and one of the meetings of the southern district will be held on December 12
or December 14, depending upon the state. The North Carolina meeting will be on December 14.

Those candidates representing Davidson College and trying out in North Carolina are: J. Woodrow Hassel, C. MacBryde, J. Hervey Duncan
Ross, and Wm. M. Thompson. Of these, MacBryde and Thompson are alumni of the College. MacBryde is studying at Union
Theological Seminary, Richmond, Va., and Thompson is teaching at Episcopal High School, Alexandria, Va. Ernest K. Emurian, also an alumnus,
is trying out in Virginia. He is at present a religious director in the Federal Transient Rehabilitation Camp, Fort Eustis,
Va. Other candidates from Davidson are Carleton Chapman, applying in Alabama, and Martin J. Barnett and W. Coleman Branton, applying
in Mississippi.

Members of the North Carolina committee are as follows: Chairman, Dr. Thurman D. Kitchin, President of Wake Forest College; Secretary,
Prof. Frank K. Mitchell, Duke University; Prof. G. R. Vowles, Davidson College; Prof. C. P. Spruill, University of North Carolina;
and William Blackburn, Esq., Duke University. The committee will meet at Durham, December 14.

Of the candidates applying for Rhodes Scholarships in North Carolina, seventeen in number, five represent Duke University, four, the University
of North Carolina, four, Davidson College, and one each, Wake Forest, Guilford, Lenoir Rhyne, and Elon College.
