THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 6, 1935

LIBRARY OBTAINS TEN NEW BOOKS
Includes Book Of Poems Written By Instructor At Belmont Abbey School

The Davidson College Library has recently acquired ten new books. These are listed below with a short comment about each.

From the Hid Battlements by Dom Placid. This is a book of poetry by one of the teachers at Belmont
Abbey at Belmont, N. C.

The Art of the Novel by Henry James. In this book, Mr. James not only explains his art and technique
but the whole art and philosophy of fiction.

Heaven's My Destination by Thornton Wilder. This is the story of a modern Don Quixote who tries to right the
world while he is a commercial traveler. It is by the same author as The Bridge of San Luis Rey.

Government Rules Industry by Michael F. Gallagher. A non-controversial and impartial study of the N.R.A.

Psychiatry in Education by V. V. Anderson. A statement of the contribution of psychiatry to educational method based on numerous
actual case analyses.

A History of the Jews by Abram Leon Sachar. A complete history of the Jews through the centuries.

Through Space and Time by Sir James Jeans. A book written in popular style presenting a picture of life on
the earth millions of years ago as well as of the stars millions of miles away.

How to Find the Right Vocation by Harry Dexter Kitson. A book written for those who want practical help as
to the choice of a vocation.

Carlyle in Old Age by David Alec Wilson and D. Wilson MacArthur. The sixth and last volume of this Life
of Carlyle.

Ferdinand Magellan by E. F. Benson. The story of this great navigator given very vividly by an authority on the
subject. It is by the author of Sir Francis Drake.

Boxing Tournament Is To Be Held In Spring

The annual intramural boxing tournament has been scheduled to take place sometime during the first week in March. An exact
date has not been decided upon, but it will be set sometime in the near future. The tournament will last
two days, the preliminary matches being fought on one night and the finals on the next. All contestants will be
divided into seven classes, according to weight, and handsome medals will be awarded to the winner in each class. The
medals are now on exhibition in the trophy case in the lobby of Chambers building.

The different weights will be divided as follows: 120 pound, 130 pound, 140 pound, 150 pound, 160 pound, 175 pound,
and unlimited classes. Due to this complete weight classification all matches will be more or less even. Entries will not
be made until a few days before the tournament, but Capt. N. G. Pritchett urges all men intending to enter
the tournament to attend his daily class in boxing, which is held on the second floor of the old gymnasium
every afternoon from 4:30 to 6 o'clock. A number of candidates for fistic honors have been working out daily for
some time.

Showing Scientific Film

A talking picture, “The Arrangement of Atoms and Molecules in Crystals,” was viewed by approximately one hundred and twenty-five students
in the Martin Chemistry building, Tuesday, January 29. Sir William Bragg, noted English scientist, directed the production of this three
and one-half reel picture. He presents a story about the construction of crystals with special reference to carbon. Dr. Bragg
explained with several models, the construction and arrangement of atoms in molecules. A capacity audience at the first showing of
the films necessitated a second show to be held for the college students. Only students taking chemistry or physics courses
were admitted, due to the small seating capacity of the lecture room. The films were obtained through the courtesy of
the General Electric Company, free of charges, except for the cost of transportation.

DR. BROWN ORGANIZES CLASS

A coaching class has been organized by Dr. C. K. Brown for the Senior Debating Team. This class is being
taught by Dr. Brown and good results are expected. The purpose of this class is to clarify and discuss the
proposition intelligently. There are several discussion groups going over hazy parts and also polishing their debates.

Overture Featured On Radio Program

Moreland Cunningham Announces Campus News And Musical Selections

The Davidson College radio program Friday night, February 1, featured the playing by the Davidson College Concert band of the
William Tell Overture by Rossini. The entire half hour was given over to a program of music by the band.
After the theme, O Davidson, the band played Shenandoah march by Edwin Franko Goldman; this was followed by Old Black
Joe by Stephen Foster, Frank Tucker sang this song. The next item on the program was the giving of the
campus news of the week; the following news was given:

On Thursday, February 7, at 8 o'clock, the Lenoir High School band will give a concert in Chambers Auditorium.

Joseph Brinkman, noted young pianist, will present the second concert in the artists series of concerts in Chambers Auditorium Tuesday
night, February 12, at 8 o'clock.

Mr. B. T. Crayton, of Charlotte, of the class of 1926, offers a trophy to the member of the band
showing the most musical improvement for the year.

About fifty-five men have reported for winter football. The Davidson authorities were pleased to learn of the decision of Gene
McEver, Davidson backfield coach, to remain here rather than to return to Tennessee, his alma mater.

This news bulletin was followed by the playing of William Tell Overture, by Rossini, the highlight of the program. The
program was announced by Moreland Cunningham.

Two Address Sigma Pi Sigma At Club Meeting

Sigma Pi Sigma, national physics fraternity, held its regular bi-monthly meeting Monday night and discussed future plans for the club.
Speakers for the occasion were John Willis, who spoke on “Ether” and W. P. Creech who selected the paradoxical subject,
“Accomplishing Something by Doing Nothing.” Willis discussed the qualities of ether and the part that it had played since it
had been discovered. Creech showed that certain gases, notably Argon, were inert but were necessary in the operation of the
incandescent lamp. “If they were active,” said Willis in considering the gases, “they would be useless.”

$72,000 Set As Value Of College Education

Only two boys out of every hundred receive four years of college education, according to the statistics compiled by a
leading insurance executive. The value of an education was pointed out by the executive, who cited some statistics of the
Massachusetts department of labor and the college of business administration of Boston University. The cash value of a college education
was set by the statistics at $72,000. The total earnings of a college graduate from 22 to 60 average $150,000.
“When a boy goes to workAt 14,” says the executive, “he reaches his maximum income at thirty, earning less than
$1,200 a year. As his income depends largely upon manual dexterity and physical strength, his income falls off gradually after
he is fifty.

“The high school graduate goes to work at 18 and passes the maximum of the untrained man within seven years,
rising steadily to his maximum of $2,200 at 40. He continues at that level the remainder of his active life.
His total additional earnings make the cash value of his high school education $33,000 more than the untrained man.

“In the case of a college-trained man, he doesn’t start permanent earnings until he is 22. By the time he
is 28, his income equals that of the high school graduate at 40 and continues to rise without a break.
The great difference is that the college-trained man’s income is dependent upon his mental ability, and training constantly improves it
by practice. With an average income of $150,000 total income between 22 and 60, the college education is worth $72,000
more than just a high school education.”

Plans for a meeting with Phi Beta Chi, a scientific fraternity, at Queens-Chicora College in the near future were discussed
with much relish, and the choosing of a speaker for the occasion was considered. Gamma Sigma Epsilon, a chemistry fraternity
represented at Davidson, will act jointly with Sigma Pi Sigma in this venture.

Pianist Offers Concert Lauded By Newspapers (Continued from Page 1)

Wide variety of shadings. Being a man of the day, he thinks in the modern idiom and plays the music
with instinctive appreciation for its meaning. There was poetic imagination and bravura brilliance. A young artist of genuine powers.

I. R. C. Makes Early Plans To Handle Meet (Continued from Page 1)

Grew as a lecturer and he has now lectured in most of the larger schools of the country. He holds
at present a position on the faculty at Princeton University. “The conference is indeed fortunate in securing Dr. Nathan for
this occasion,” stated President Charles Lucas in commenting upon the speaker. Lucas announced the selection of three important committees who
will handle phases of the coming convention. Lamont Brown was chosen chairman of the placement committee and will be assisted
by Wilbur Edwards, Don Bailey, Paul Harlan, and Harold Sugg. This committee will be in charge of finding places for
the 200 delegates expected. Warner DuBose will be in charge of Registration and Mims Rogers will head the Entertainment Committee.
Assistants for these two will be selected later, announced Lucas. Several will be busy ushering the delegates around to their
places and it is possible that the Davidson Boy Scouts will be used for that purpose.

Those initiated at the meeting include: Wade Boggs, Carleton Chapman, Cameron Deans, Wilbur Edwards, Gordon Green, Paul Harlan, Edwin Holt,
Blanton Little, Bob Lindsey, Tyler Port, Harold Sugg, A. C. Stutts, and Tom Sutton. Lamont Brown, Tom Downie, John Newton,
and Hugh Yelverton were not present for the initiation and will be initiated in the near future.

Y.M.C.A. News (Continued from Page 3)

Presbyterian Church. The occasion was the monthly special meeting of the men’s group. A. A. Gammon of the Students Volunteer
Union in cooperation with the Y went across the tracks to the Unity Church Sunday to talk on Mission Work
in Brazil. Mr. Gammon was born in Brazil and received his preparatory education in Brazilian schools and is in a
position to give a first-hand description of actual conditions in that great South American country. To add to the interest
of the talk, Mr. Gammon showed a large number of slides depicting life in Brazil. Next Sunday deputations have been
planned to the Front Street Presbyterian Church in Statesville, where representatives are sent quite frequently, and to the Prison Camp
near Huntersville, where representatives are sent nearly every Sunday except the first in the month.

Future Of Annual Hangs In Balance (Continued from Page 1)

Pecuniary support. In view of these conditions, the publications board felt that it was not advisable henceforth to publish a
yearbook in the name of Davidson College which would not be thoroughly worthy of the institution’s other activities. It was
hoped that these measures would arouse the men who have not thus far paid their visit to the annual’s photographing
studio to do so at once, and that the situation which has developed might thus be remedied as far as
the present term is concerned.

Scientific Pictures To Be Shown (Continued from Page 1)

Chemistry Building. Scientific motion picture films are obtained from Ethyl-Dow Chemical Company, General Electric Company, and other manufacturers of chemical
products, free of charge, except for the cost of transportation. At present, only physics and chemistry students are allowed to
attend these film showings. Students are requested to attend these shows on time and to remain through the entire presentation
of one or both pictures. Satisfactory arrangements are in progress to obtain adequate sound effects in Chambers auditorium so that
all scientifically inclined students will be afforded an opportunity to attend these showings.

’Kittens Are On Three Day Trip (Continued from Page 4)

Experienced players, Coach Martin's proteges have won victories over Paw Creek High School and Davidson High School, losing also to
Paw Creek, Belmont Abbey, and the Tar Babies from the University of North Carolina. Playing a fast game against an
outclassed team, the Freshmen ran up a 48-6 score against Davidson High School Thursday night in the College Gymnasium. Lawrence
Reid, Captain Barrow, Keiswetter, and Harris figured highly in this barrage of field goals, and for the High team, Graham
and McLain did well.

Grid Candidates In Spring Practice (Continued from Page 4)

Tackles: “Big Six” Johnston, Joe Hunter, Jim Dickson, Van Patterson, Goodman, John Winn, Haywood Hill, and Loch Vass. Guards: Dick
Johnson, Hunter McClung, Jim Johnston, Carl Carlson, Alec Brown, George Mathis, Graham, Bob Green, Brent Green, “Chubby” King, Shytle, and
Charlie Bixler. Backs: Paul Pittman, “Midge” Verble, Baxter Yarborough, Tom Corbin, John Sadler, Tom Thurston, “Swede” Johnston, “Teeny” Lafferty, “Red”
Hogan, Fred Dennis, McQueen, Charlie Brown, Hack Sanders, “Tip” Harrison, and Ed Armfield.

SOCIETY

Davidson Theatre

WEDNESDAY, FEB. 6
With Chester Morris, Virginia Bruce, Robert Taylor, and Billie Burke

THURSDAY, FEB. 7
HERE IS MY HEART
With Bing Crosby and Kitty Carlisle

FRIDAY, FEB. 8
RHUMBA
With George Raft and Carole Lombard

SATURDAY, FEB. 9
FATHER BROWN DETECTIVE
With Paul Lucas, Walter Connolly, and Gertrude Michael

MONDAY AND TUESDAY, FEB. 10-11
WINGS IN THE DARK
With Myrna Loy and Hobart Cavanaugh

DOCTOR
MONDAY
WEDNESDAY
SATURDAY

ANDRE KOSTELANETZ ORCHESTRA AND CHORUS
9 P.M. (E.S.T.) — COLUMBIA NETWORK

...telling me they satisfy

© 1935, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.
