THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 2, 1935

HAND BOOKS ARE AVAILABLE AT Y

Wildcat Handbook Includes Useful General Information For Freshmen

This year’s Wildcat Handbook has several additions and improvements to the publications of former years. The handbook has been enlarged,
and a new binding used. A fraternity date card and a directory of classrooms and offices have been added. Paul
Harlan is the editor of this year’s edition, and Hoke Robinson is the business manager. The handbook is dedicated to
Professor Ernest A. Beaty, of the Latin and Italian departments.

The table of contents, as usual, includes the following chapters: general information to freshmen, Y. M. C. A. activities, student
government, athletics, fraternities, and songs and yells. There are also messages to the students from Albert McClure, “Y” Secretary, President
Lingle, Dr. Moffett, of the Davidson College Presbyterian Church, Professor Williams, dean of freshmen, and Harvey Glass, president of the
Y. M. C. A. Other helpful features are a who's who at Davidson, a map of the campus, and of
fraternity court, a college calendar, pictures of campus leaders and personalities, a copy of the constitution of the student body,
and a class schedule. The Wildcat Handbook is published annually by the Davidson Y. M. C. A. This year’s publication
is the twenty-eighth. Anyone who has not yet procured his handbook may do so by calling by the Y. It
is hoped that all new men will carefully read this book, and keep in mind the rules and regulations set
forth in it.

Musicians Plan To Sponsor Concerts Series Will Include Four Groups of Artists

The Davidson Department of Music will present during the coming year a series including four artists or groups of artists—Kryl’s
concert band; Kate Keith Field; the Siberian Singers, and Thane McDonald. Bohumir Kryl and his symphonic band, of Chicago, will
give the first concert at Davidson on Oct. 28, while on their thirty-first annual tour. This band of 45 members
also includes harp, vocal, and violin soloists. Kryl, director and once soloist with John Philip Sousa, is considered the world’s
greatest cornetist. During the past thirty years, the band has given more than 12,000 concerts and has traveled more than
1,000,000 miles.

Kate Keith Field, soprano, of New York City, will present the second concert of the series sometime in December. Miss
Field, who gave her first vocal recital in New York last year, is one of the youngest sopranos of that
city. The Siberian Singers, composed of twelve male voices, will comprise the third attraction of the series. This group, on
their second American tour, will appear at the College on February 3. These native Russians will sing in costume. Thane
McDonald, of Ypsilanti, Mich., one of America’s most brilliant concert organists, will present the final concert of the series.

Although this series involves more expense than the series of last year, season tickets may be obtained at reasonable prices.
Student rates are $1.50 and adults, $2.50 for the season. Single admission will be much higher.

Fighting Wildcats Defeated in Close Match With State (Continued from Page 1)

The Pack then began a march to Davidson’s one-yard line with two passes figuring prominently. Ryneska smashed for the margin
and Helms converted. State 14; Davidson 7. No consistent gains this period. Bardes got loose through center for 22 yards,
although 15 was subtracted as a penalty. After advancing to the ’Cats 32 the Packs’ efforts failed and the game
ended 14-7 State.

Rent A Car For the Week-End M. P. HENDERSON Gulf Gas and Oil

Sports Staccato

Dr. Lingle Returns From Lecture Trip College President Makes Several Talks in Central North Carolina (Continued from Page 4)

“Moky” should help Davidson's track chances a great deal, since he is a fine sprinter. It is hoped that Earle
Frazier will also return before track season gets under way.

Dr. Walter L. Lingle returned Wednesday, Sept. 28, from a four-day speaking trip in the central part of the state.
Leaving Saturday, Sept. 21, he first spoke to a congregation at Wade, and Sunday morning drove to Old Bluff Church,
twelve miles north of Fayetteville.

Alumni Association Solicits Funds For Anniversary Gift (Continued from Page 1)

...or gymnasium, to replace the two now in use. Mention is made of...the dilapidated condition of both of these, and
their inadequacy in the face of increasing student bodies and growing numbers of participants in athletic activities.

ville, where he spoke at the 177th anniversary service of the church. His topic was “Our Presbyterian Heritage.” This church
holds an anniversary service every year and hundreds of people attend. Sunday night Dr. Lingle talked at the chapel. His
topic was “What Is the College Trying to Do for You?”

Fourth, the need of a new infirmary, in view of the fact that the one now available to the students
is old and poorly equipped. Fifth, the need of a new library building, one worthy of housing the great number
of worthwhile books now kept in the quite old and inefficient building at the head of Dormitory Row. Sixth, the
need for a new social center, in that the one now in use is so unattractive and inadequate as to
attract little if any of the enthusiastic use which should attend such a center of fellowship and entertainment. Seventh, he
listed the following needs, all of which speak for themselves: science building, general endowment fund, loan funds, music department endowment,
and traveling fellowships for members of the faculty.

Grier Martin, Alumni Secretary, reports that contributions and votes for the Alumni Gift have been coming in rapidly since the
issue of the Journal, and that, while no official check has been made, indications are that the church and the
gymnasium lead in the voting to date.

Dr. Meyers Addresses Students at Vespers (Continued from Page 1)

else is, not his brilliance or attractiveness, but his faithfulness and reliability. I will “Blessed are the pure in heart.”
God's people are a separated people, and we are expected to keep ourselves unspotted from the world. Ignorance of evil
is power. Kenneth Scott played the organ for the service, and Mr. Warren Babcock directed the glee club in the
call to worship and other vocal selections. Dr. Meyers closed the service with the benediction.

Tuesday afternoon and night at the meeting of the Presbytery at Fayetteville, Dr. Lingle talked on “What the Bible Teaches
Concerning the Use of Money.” He returned to Davidson Wednesday.

PATRONIZE Norton’s Barber Shop All We Ask Is a Trial NORTON AND CIDROAM Proprietors

MAGAZINES—FOUNTAIN Davidson’s Oldest and Best

VISIT WHITE DRUG CO. PROMPT AND EFFICIENT SERVICE PENS—TOILET ARTICLES

since the issue of the Journal, and that, while no official check has been made, indications are that the church
and the gymnasium lead in the voting to date. The latest issue of the Alumni Journal, in addition to containing
a detailed account of that mentioned above, also includes a message from the president of the Alumni Association, in which
he stresses the need for all alumni to subscribe at once to the Journal, and other important matters. There is
an article devoted to a discussion of the line-up of the Davidson Wildcats for the new season, with a schedule
of games to be played. Regular departments include “With the Faculty,” “With the Alumni,” and “Alumni in the News.” On
the front cover of this issue is found a picture of Oak Row, and on the rear, one of the
present Alumni Gymnasium.

SPECIAL? Tuesdays and Fridays 15c---HOT WAFFLES---15c AT THE LITTLE PEP

CORRECTION FROM LAST WEEK: $5.75 Meal Ticket For $5

Davidson Theatre WEDNESDAY AND THURSDAY, OCT. 2-3 CHINA SEAS With Jean Harlow, Clark Gable and Wallace Beery

FRIDAY, THE BIG BROADCAST OF 1936 Including Jack Oakie, Henry Wadsworth, George Burns, Gracie Allen, Bill Robinson, Sir Guy Standing
and Mary Boland

SATURDAY, OCT. 5 POWDER SMOKE RANGE With Hoot Gibson, Harry Carey, Bob Steele and Tom Tyler

MONDAY AND TUESDAY, OCT. 7-8 TOP HAT With Fred Astaire and Ginger Rogers

OCT. 4 © 1935, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.

... for mildness “OMAHA” Winner, one after the other, of the Kentucky Derby, the Preakness, and the Belmont. Omaha is
an outstanding horse today. And in the cigarette world Chesterfield is outstanding. Both won their place strictly on merit. Apply
any test you like—Chesterfields stand for the best there is in cigarettes. They are milder... yet they let you know
you’re smoking. They taste better—give you real pleasure.
