THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 13, 1935

RADIO FEATURES DR. C.R. HARDING

Davidson Greek Professor Talks On Man’s Intellectual Capacity

The regular weekly Davidson College half-hour took the air at 8 o'clock on last Thursday evening, with Announcer “Skip” Brown
at the microphone to greet his widespread audience with the customary “good evening.” Featured on the program were Kenneth Scott,
organist; Mrs. Norton Pritchett, vocalist, and Dr. Caleb Richard Harding, speaker.

The opening selection was an organ rendition of “Indian Lament,” by D'vorak. Kenneth Scott, of the sophomore class, played this
composition on the three-manual Skinner. Next, Mrs. Pritchett was introduced, this being her first broadcast since she participated in the
Christmas vesper service last year. She sang the familiar “Bells of St. Mary's,” accompanied on the organ by Mr. Scott.
Following this solo, Mr. Brown introduced Dr. Harding as a man who has made a study of life and art,
and who knows man as few men do. Dr. Harding, now in his forty-seventh year as a member of the
Davidson College faculty, and professor of Appreciation of Art, then gave a brief and interesting talk on man as an
intellectual entity.

Upon the conclusion of this address, Kenneth Scott turned to the works of Fritz Kreisler, offering that composer's beautiful “Caprice
Viennois” as an organ solo. Mr. Scott then accompanied Mrs. Pritchett as she sang “Roses of Picardy,” following which he
concluded the program with the number, “The Old Refrain,” this also by Fritz Kreisler. This just left Mr. Brown the
time necessary to once more identify the source of the program, and to invite his audience to return to their
loudspeakers at 8 o'clock tomorrow night for another Davidson College half-hour.

Dr. Harding Delivers Lecture (Continued from Page 1, Col. 3)

Earth, moon, and sun all contribute to its apparent change in form. The sun is 857,000 miles in diameter, and
if reduced to a hollow shell, with the earth placed in the center, it could easily contain both earth and
moon. At this point, Dr. Harding called attention to the stars. He mentioned the origin of their names in classic
mythology. Then he continued with a discussion of their more interesting features, giving a detailed explanation of the movement and
composition of that constellation known as the Big Dipper. The distance to the stars is, to the lay mind, almost
incredible. The light from Sirius, the Dog Star, requires nine years to reach the earth, and light travels at a
speed of 186,000 miles per second. Only seven of the stars have at present had their diameters measured. But the
diameter of all of them is much larger than that of our sun. Our sun is nothing but the star
of our own solar system. All stars are in motion, it was pointed out, and the sun is moving in
a straight line as are the rest of them. Eventually, the constellations will change their present shape. Among the slides
were several close-up photographs of spiral nebulas. These, the speaker explained, are other universes. With them, the lecture was concluded.

Although Dr. Harding took his doctor's degree in mathematics, and he is primarily concerned with the teaching of that subject,
he has made astronomy his hobby. In the past three years, he has conducted a syndicated column on popular astronomy.

Founders Day To Be Held April 9 (Continued from Page 1, Col. 6)

The night of April 9. Speakers from the college will be sent to most of these local gatherings. Last year
over 400 Davidson alumni gathered at the Founder's Day meeting. Davidson’s first Founder's Day was held last year with Dr.
Ben E. Geer, president of Furman University, making the principal address. Two years from now the centennial of the founding
of the college will be celebrated.

Davidson Students See Speed King Face Death (Continued from Page 3)

As concrete. It takes about five miles’ run for the Bluebird to reach its maximum and a gradual diminishing of
speed for five more miles before it can stop. The racer is guided by a white canvas square, apparently about
25 feet square, suspended at each end of the course. Before the race, a string is sighted between the two
points and with that as a guide, a stripe about eighteen inches wide of black oil is painted. The string
is, of course, removed. The motors of the mighty Bluebird, the boys learned from the local authorities on the sands,
are cooled by ice water before each run and the various gears (the popular guides differed between four and five
in numbers) can be shifted only after certain speeds are attained. Four days later, after thebeach was in good condition
and the Bluebird had been repaired, Campbell succeeded in breaking his speed record of 272 miles an hour by a
little more than three miles per hour.

DRUGS — Specials — DRUGS
$1.00 Pinaud’s 3 for 1 offer
25c Dr. West Tooth Paste—2 for .... 33°
35c Lifebuoy Shaving Cream
75c Fitch's Shampoo (for Dandruff) .... 49°
50c Rubbing Alcohol (Full Pint) ................ 29°
25c Noxzema .............. 15°
7c Justice Mouth Wash (for Halitosis) ... 39°
25c Woodbury’s Talcum (available) .... 15°

NUNNALLY'S MINIATURES
Brazil Nuts — Caracas Creams — Almonds.... 2 lbs. =

COLLEGE PHARMACY
M. P. HENDERSON
Davidson’s “Service Drug Store”
Next Door to Post Office

Two Davidson Men Given Fellowships

Two Davidson alumni, Carl Ruffin Pritchett, of the class of 1930, and John Henry McKimmon, Jr., of the class of
1932, have been awarded fellowships for 1935-36 at Union Theological Seminary, Richmond, Va., according to an announcement made by Dr.
Edward Mack, dean of the graduate department at Union. That coveted honor, a fellowship, is each year extended to five
men at the seminary who have shown scholastic ability.

Mr. McKinnon and Mr. Pritchett were very active while at Davidson. Mr. McKinnon was a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon.
He was also a member of Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, D Club, Eta Sigma Pi, Y. M. C.
A. Council, Honorary Fraternity Council, Student Council, and the International Relations Club. He was manager of freshman football, and was
on the varsity track team. He was a first lieutenant in the R. O. T. C., on the varsity debating
team, solicitor for The Davidsonian, treasurer of the Y. M. C. A., and secretary-treasurer of his junior class, and president
of his senior class.

Mr. Pritchett was a member of Omicron Delta Kappa, Alpha Phi Epsilon, D Club, Athletic Association, Student Council, and Y.
M. C. A. Cabinet. He played football and basketball, and was captain of the basketball team. He was a varsity
debater. He was vice-president and also secretary-treasurer of the Athletic Association, vice-president and president of the Student Body, and president
of his sophomore class. He returned to Davidson in the fall of 1930 to serve as Y secretary.

Mr. McKinnon will continue his studies at the University of Edinburgh, Scotland. Mr. Pritchett will remain at Union Theological Seminary.

Celebrate Annual Barium Day Mar. 2
(Continued from Page 1, Col. 1)

Of our home games seem like a Barium Springs Day, when they show up in time to lend their support
to the team. The high point of the day was the game between the Reds and Greys, which was the
final game of a series which has been going on during the spring practice. The teams were evenly matched, resulting
in a scoreless tie. A crowd estimated at more than five hundred turned out to watch the last game of
the winter drills, scheduled especially for the Barium Springs Day. Between the halves, two teams from the orphanage staged an
exhibition game. Henry Pittman, younger brother of Paul Pittman, was the star of the game, making a 55-yard run, after
having taken off his shoes for greater freedom. Later he scored again, his side winning 12-6. Members of the student
body were given a chance to contribute to a fund for the orphanage, and tickets were sold to all others.
The total amount raised was about sixty dollars.

Davidson Theatre
The Best of Pictures Always

They won't help you catch rivets — they won't cause any ills or cure any ailments ... when anything satisfies
it’s got to be right... no “ifs” or “buts” about it. Chesterfields satisfy because, first of all, they’re made of
the right kinds of mild ripe tobaccos. These tobaccos are thoroughly aged and then blended and cross-blended. It takes time
and it takes money, but whatever it costs in time or money we do it in order to give you
a cigarette that’s milder, a cigarette that tastes better.

When in Durham you are cordially invited to visit the Chesterfield factory and see Chesterfields made, too.

© 1935, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.

The Latest Victor & Blue Bird Records can be heard in Davidson
Such Artists as
Ray Noble
Eddie Duchin
Jan Garber
Art Kassel
George Hall
Jolly Coburn
Are Featured

Drop by and listen to your favorite. Even the notes will thank you.

Latest Dance Sensations
Clouds, Ray Noble
Soon, Ray Noble
I’m Misunderstood, Jan Garber
A Little White Gardenia, Art Kassel
It’s An Old Southern Custom, Eddie Duchin

RCA VICTOR
Records, Repairs
VAN PATTERSON
414 West
DAVIDSON, N. C.
