The Davidsonian — 
Founded by the Class of 1915
1935 Member 1936 Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Printed by the QUEEN CITY PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate year.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879.

ARTICLES FOR PUBLICATION must be in the hands of Managing Editors by 4:00 o'clock p.m., Monday. Letters to the Editor are welcome, but all communications intended for publication must be signed.

Editor
LAMONT BROWN

Business Manager
R. P. MORROW, Jr.

EDITORIAL STAFF
Managing Editor
Jim Morton

Managing Editor
Howett Overton

Managing Editor
Harold Sugg

Managing Editor
Daymonn Turner

Managing Editor
John Winn

Sports Editor
Harry Kuykendall

Associate Editor
Martin Barnett

Associate Editor
Harvey Glass

Associate Editor
Paul Hartas

Associate Editor
Tom Marchant

Associate Editor
John Walker

BUSINESS STAFF
Circulation Manager
Charles Mauze

Circulation Manager
Burt Swore

Circulation Manager
Bow Vance

Advertising Manager
Hoke Robinson

Collection Manager
Bu. Hin

Collection Manager
Britt Deyerte

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 1935

Excuses are tools with which incompetents build for themselves great monuments of nothing—Anon.

PARAGRAPHICS....
“Cut that radio down,” is a tune that echoes between the Davidson dormitories all too often. We have only had the privilege of keeping radios in our rooms for two years, and if some men continue to abuse the privilege, measures will unquestionably be taken to remedy the annoyance. There are enough radios in school for every man, who so desires, to hear one. Therefore, it is needless for any man to bother the student body by running his machine so it can be heard all over the campus.

Davidson’s new church arrangement is certainly worthy of praise. The array of speakers that have delivered messages to the students since school opened has been an unusually inspiring group, and those yet to come are all of an equal caliber. By the way, rubber runners have been ordered for the aisles, which when installed will do away with the noise that now prevails when the student ushers march down to receive the offering.

Rufus Morrow, '34, scored, in a very effective way, those few students who tried to interrupt his talk in chapel Monday morning, by their loud and continual coughing. Maybe one of them will come back to Davidson someday and be called upon to lead a chapel service. That’s doubtful, however. It isn’t an easy thing to do when everybody is patient and attentive.

HOMECOMING....
“I often feel myself getting homesick for Davidson. It seems that I am almost compelled to return to the beautiful old campus and renew my acquaintance with things about the place and once again sense the thrill of that Wildcat spirit as it exists nowhere in the world like it does right on the Davidson campus.” Those words, written in a letter to the editor from a Davidson alumnus, who is now studying medicine at a southern university, express in a very concise way the real spirit of Homecoming Day. We like to feel that Davidson is HOME to all her sons, who return for a day not simply to help cheer the football team on to victory, but to make it a rendezvous for those “student families” that were once the real Davidson, and come back home to enjoy a happy time around the hearth of college friendship.

We want you alumni to feel perfectly free to do just as you please while you are on the campus. It is “your day” and it is our purpose for you to make it a pleasant one. If you care to, act just as those old confederate veterans, who a few years ago returned to the battleground at Gettysburg, the very sight of which seemed to carry them back to those days in July, 1863, when General Lee’s army fought so gallantly to defend the southern cause, and dismissing from their minds every other thought, these noble men ran about the field from hill to hill sounding the rebel yell as if the battle was actually raging. Come back, sons of Davidson, to your alma mater, where you in years past fought in a struggle for building life rather than for destroying it, go about from place to place on the campus reviving experiences, and make the 1936 Homecoming Day the greatest ever observed.

BEAT DUKE....
BEAT DUKE! is the cry that every Davidson man should have upon his lips and in his heart. Alumni are coming back with the sincere hope of seeing the Wildcats lick the Blue Devils. It can be done, and, I believe, will be done Saturday afternoon, but not without the one hundred percent cooperation of the Davidson student body. Last Saturday afternoon the “Fighting Irish” from Notre Dame proved that no team is defeated until the final whistle has blown. The Irish aren’t the only fighters in this world, and on Homecoming Day Davidson is going to prove that the Scotch Presbyterians have just as much pugnacity and scrap about them as can be concentrated into any six hundred and fifty men in the country. We are the “Fighting Wildcats,” let’s show Duke Saturday what that means. Let’s show them that Davidson doesn't make those eleven men on the field do all the fighting, but that when a team plays us they've got to lick the spirited backers in the stands, who never say “die,” as well as the warriors on the turf. Davidson is a Presbyterian College, and one of the fundamental doctrines of the church is that “what will be, shall be.” Saturday, men of the Davidson student body, WE WILL BEAT DUKE! AND WE SHALL BEAT DUKE!

DRINKING AT GAMES....
Word has come to our ears that certain members of the student body are displeased with the statement in reference to drinking which has been read over our public address system at the beginning of every football contest since the South Carolina game. There have even been overt charges that college authorities “railroaded” the issue through. It is not our purpose to take sides or enter into any controversy about this measure which has attracted such wide and favorable publicity. However, we would like to point out to such disgruntled ones that the plan was certainly not “railroaded.” When it was presented in student assembly the morning of the South Carolina game, ample opportunity was granted for discussion. Yet not a dissenting voice was raised: no one requested more time for consideration: no one had any comments or suggestions to offer. And certainly there were very few who did not raise a hand in support of the idea when a vote was called.

This announcement has aroused a nation-wide interest and has occasioned much editorial comment throughout the South. In the ATLANTA JOURNAL, CHARLOTTE OBSERVER, and other daily papers, as well as in the publications of other colleges, Davidson has been commended for her stand in this respect. Many seem to feel that our alma mater has set a precedent that will be widely followed. It is characteristic neither of a Davidson student nor any gentleman to indulge in unfair recriminations behind anyone’s back. Those who resent the action should have spoken out when it was first taken. Or, failing opportunity, they have surely had time in the ensuing weeks to air their complaints, either before the administration or the student body as a whole. They have had their chance and, through lack of courage or intelligence, have failed to use it. Let them hold their peace!

MOM AND DADS’ DAY....
Parents of college students will be guests of honor at the second annual Mom and Dads’ Day, to be held at Hastings, Nebraska. In an effort to acquaint the parents with the institution their children are attending, the doors of the college will figuratively be thrown open in extending a cordial welcome. Plans are well under way for the Fifteenth Annual Dads’ Day at the Mississippi State College.

SO WHAT?....
Gatekeepers at Ohio State University have a novel method of deciding whether you’re sober enough to enter the stadium. If you can wiggle your thumbs in unison, you’re O.K. Otherwise you can watch the game from the trees or telegraph poles. Courses in “Use of Leisure” will be offered next year at Whitman College. Herbert Hoover, Jefferson Davis, Benjamin Franklin, Henry Hudson, William Penn, David Livingstone, and Ben Hur are registered at the University of North Carolina this year.

NOVEMBER 6, 1935

DAVIDSON off the RECORD
By HAROLD SUGG

THE WORKSHOP OF AN IDLE BRAIN
In meandering through the Davidson Campus an observant eye will notice two distinct cliques of Davidson men: one fat, fine and healthy, the other gaunt, starving and emaciated. The issue between these two is “Does the meal bell act as a signal to begin eating or a warning to proceed to the Boarding House?” There is little reason to suppose that manners are so scarce that a signal gong must be struck so as to give all a fair chance. If the authorities would clarify this critical matter no doubt there would be stiff competition for the Physical Improvement Cup this spring and—if it means anything—a more healthy column would grace this page. Incidentally, we know not a more misdirected attempt at luxury than stopping the Sunday breakfast bell. For this peaceful columnist, the supreme pleasure in life is to hear the Sunday bell and then turn over in disdain and go back to sleep.

INSIPID ODDITIES
A person who doesn’t wrench his face and gurgle gibberish garbles when hearing a pun... one who uses a lapboard without writing his name thereupon... a picture-taking without the “bust the camera” joke... a male quartet without “Shortnin’ Bread”... an audience that doesn’t go in ecstasy over meaningless popular encores.

Davidson Needs:
A paved walk from the library to Main St., past Shearer and Elm Row. This is a pitiful gulley and yet one of the most frequented on the campus. Better lighting at lectures; there is always too much light behind the speaker. Applied Math. Classes will contribute to the welfare of humanity if they will calculate which is the shorter route from the “Y” to Georgia: by Rumple or by the gym.

CHARLOTTE
Columnist broke down Saturday and saw a stage show. Charles Malone, Al Cade and Martin Barnett—again with his camera—were on the bald head row. Must be a good annual this year. Jerry Harris and Jack Somerville also returned to the campus with cricks in necks. One of the better ones we heard was a song a dago by. Speaking of the War, we've heard a lot about jingoists turning youth into cannon fodder. It seems that Mussolini is making the cannon the fodder of the Italian people. Well, where he leads us.... Other Charlottean activities of the week saw Joe Dees, cradle-robber; Fred Purnell, Mokey Faison, Bill Brown, and Graham S. Squires at the Hallowe'en Brawl Thursday. Later in the week, Bill Downie, Tom Harris, Harvey Johnston, and Joe McConnell rode over. Yvonne so.

CAMPUS PLUTOCRAT NO. FOUR
“Prosperity,” says Cokey Branton, head of the Pan-Hellenic Council, “is like big dance bands for Davidson. Always just around the corner.” He says the Council is planning bigger things than ever before. Last year they planned on Kassels, Kyser, and Jones. This year they plan on Gray, Kemp, and Lombardo. Who will play for Midwinters? The answer to that momentous question is the Minneapolis Symphony Orchestra. Or Goldman's band.

INCIDENTALS
Salty Peters is a graduate professor in the Heinkle school of dancing; Elmore Holt is learning quickly by mail. Mal Grimes and Chas. Thompson went to bring the moon over Kings Mountain Saturday. Watts suggests that The Georgia Bald Club is losing hair worrying over the Geo.-Watts game. Maybe so, but the battle cry of the Club is “Quick, Henry, the Fitch!” Johnny Mosely calls his girl smallpox because he has a fascination for her. The campus brightens somewhat with the appearance of Chubby King and his new orchestra.

CHEWET
As jubilant as a Dean's letter. A joke you hate to admit you caught the point to. Said a little girl to King D. Hill: “You can’t fool me. I saw that nose mask in the 5&10.” Carl Carlson prophesied that all Davidson would fall in love with Madame Gallipioli of the Circus. Henry Lyons, recently of Tennessee, is now from Georgia or any other state. I won't dance. That's not the question, Lady, that’s not the question.

Georgia. Hold your breath, dub! Scientists at the University of Iowa have discovered that the better golfers hold their breath while making a shot. Sharpshooters likewise, professor. Dedicated to Haile Selassie: “Never let.

AROUND WASHINGTON
By ARNOLD SERWER (Associated Collegiate Press Correspondent)

Washington, D. C.—A reporter who used to work on The New York American told me this story, down to the last detail, and I am passing it on for what it is worth, just as I heard it. The reporter, who is a reliable and responsible person, was an eyewitness at the scene. To my mind, it is an interesting sidelight on the makeup of two of our best-known national figures, William Randolph Hearst and Arthur Brisbane. Also, it points a moral to the effect that one must never stoop to recover a fallen sweet, not only because the sweet may be germ-covered because of its fall, but because at the time of stooping it might turn out that Mr. Hearst and Mr. Brisbane would like to pass.

One raw, wintry afternoon several years ago, a copyboy in the city room of The New York American, finding that he had all of ten free minutes to himself, decided to spend the time in getting and eating a piece of candy from the stand just inside the entrance to the building. He had the money in his pocket, and the craving for candy he had been born with, the true sign of a genuine copyboy. He went downstairs to the candy stand, a faint smile of anticipation on his face, his head—chocolate filled, so to speak. At the stand, he spent a long time weighing the merits of gumdrops versus rum toffee, and then reverting to his original idea, hovered undecided between a Hershey bar and a bar of Nestle’s chocolate. Finally, he bought an O Henry. Carefully he rolled back the paper wrappers, and holding it in his fist, as a child holds a half-peeled banana, bit heartily into the candy. Chewing happily, he walked idly to the door. It was a beautiful day, he thought. West Street was three inches deep in snow and sleet. The wind rushing down the street jabbed each passerby viciously in the nose, turning it blue with cold. But still, he thought, looking at his candy, it was a beautiful day.

A limousine of enormous proportions was approaching. He glanced at it, then down at his bar again. Turning to go inside, he took another bite. Three or four idlers around the doorway, shifting their regard from the boy, turned to look at the limousine which had just stopped in front of the building. As they watched, a chauffeur in a smart greatcoat got out and hastened to open the rear door. Out came a large bear followed by another one. They straightened up and became two men in enormous fur coats. Majestically they steamed toward the entrance, their breaths turning to clouds of vapor in the frosty air. The idlers hastily made gangway for the fur coats, guessing instinctively who was in each. The coats stepped through the doorway, stalked toward the elevator, and stopped! There was an obstruction in their path. The boy was the obstruction. A second before, in seeking for a new hold on his candy, he had lost control of it and it had fallen to the floor in the path of the approaching Mr. Hearst and Mr. Brisbane. Unaware of their approach, or as a matter of fact of anything but his fallen candy, he stooped over to retrieve it, stooped and stopped two of America's most eminent journalists. Stopped them dead in their tracks! If the Japs had, at that moment as Mr. Brisbane has been suggesting for years they might, appeared over New York City in an aerial raid, he would not have shown half the surprise that he did at the sight of the boy in his path. Mr. Hearst's face, on the other hand, merely assumed an expression of inscrutability. What went on behind those massive features no one will ever know exactly, but the event that followed swiftly is evidence that Mr. Hearst was fashioning a Jovian thunderbolt and that the moment was pregnant with fateful meaning for the copyboy. He waited while the boy recovered his candy, and then as the boy looked up, gave him a ponderous glance. Turning, he stepped into the elevator and with Mr. Brisbane was conveyed aloft. The boy stood open-mouthed, looking after them, his jaw slack, his eyes wide with fear. In the city room, Mr. Hearst summoned the editor. He described the boy. The editor admitted the boy was an employee of the paper and, wearily sick at heart, sent another copyboy after the offender. And there in the city room, with Mr. Brisbane looking on, Mr. Hearst loosed his thunderbolt. He fired the boy who stooped for a bar of candy.

Compare The NEWS From DAVIDSONIANS of Years Gone By

FIVE YEARS AGO
Wofford Terriers battle Wildcats here Saturday. . . “Red and Black Masquers” present their first play, “The Perfect Alibi,” on the fifteenth of November. . . “The Yowl,” Davidson's new humorous magazine, will appear soon. . . Freshmen will have cake race Friday. . . Plans for great improvements in college library made. . . Twelve honorary fraternities issue fall invitations. . . “Y” deputation goes to Banner Elk. . . Mac McClure was chief storyteller while there. . . Ninety-two men report to call for '31 rifle team. . . Six men tapped for O. D. K. at fall Tap Day service. . . Delegates from local school publications attend press convention in Greenville. . . V. M. I. defeats Wildcats with a score of 6-0. . . Juniors take lead in class basketball. . . Wildkittens play State yearlings Tuesday. . . Davidson tennis team defeats Wake Forest 8-0. . . J. B. Fleece speaks at “Y” vespers. . . Glee Club plans several fall trips. . . Beta Theta Pi’s are campus football champions. . . Mr. J. B. Johnston, of Barium Springs, will talk at vespers Sunday.

TEN YEARS AGO
Rev. Jesse C. Rowan, pastor of First Presbyterian Church in Concord, N. C., and president of the Alumni Association, delivers the main address at Davidson College Day. . . College reaches an enrollment of 638 students, breaking all previous records. . . Norris, Inc., of Atlanta, Ga., to give Norris Prize to outstanding student-athlete, who will be elected by popular vote. . . Charlotte to be the scene of the coming battle with Hampden-Sydney Tigers. . . Game to decide southern Presbyterian football champions. . . Cold, misty weather reduces campus spooks on Hallowe’en night. . . Wildcats defeat State Wolfpack in thrilling Homecoming Day grid classic with a score of 9-0. . . Fred Smith, Harold Burke, and Harllee Branch of the “Davidsonian” staff will attend North Carolina Collegiate Press Association Convention. Davidson has representation at World Court Conference held at Duke. . . Zupke Quartette presents Russian music as the first concert of the Lyceum series opens. Wildkittens down Duke Freshmen 7-0. . . Dr. Arbuckle and family attend centennial of church in Decatur. . . Freshmen will meet Furman yearlings. . . Junior and Sophomore teams win in class basketball. . . Intra-Mural sports to be inaugurated on campus this week. . . Forensic council arranges debates for varsity and freshman teams. . . Dr. C. F. Myers conducts fall “Y” meeting. . . Golf course in fine shape for fall tournament.

FIFTEEN YEARS AGO
Davidson downs Citadel in thrilling contest with a score of 27-13. . . Company “D” wins in first R.O.T.C. inspection. . . All students from C. K. Brown to D. F. Mahood were seen strutting about the campus in their “Sunday-go-to-meeting” clothes during photographic week. Inter-Collegiate debating preliminaries held. . . St. Clare Sisters score big hit with student body. . . Flag is to fly at half-mast next Sunday by order of President Wilson. . . College to observe Armistice Day. . . Elon and Trinity Duke fall before Davidson tennis team, but Wake Forest wins. . . Juniors defeat Seniors in class basketball. . . Davidson golfers defeat Salisbury. . . Band performs before Queens College students. . . Wildcats meet South Carolina Saturday. . . Military section of annual to be increased. . . Dr. C. M. Richards speaks on “Christ our Champion.” . . Dwight Chalmers gives practical talk at Y. M. C. A. vespers. . . Eumenean Society holds preliminary debate.

Philanthropic Literary Society Holds Meeting
The weekly meeting of the Philanthropic Literary Society was held Tuesday evening, October the twenty-ninth, in the Philanthropic Hall to conduct the usual weekly program. At this meeting, the following officers were elected to serve for the next three months: G. A. Flornbeck, president; W. E. Black, vice-president; H. L. Harkey, secretary; R. H. Lindsay, treasurer; D. M. Jones, first critic; and F. S. Furness, second critic. Other important business included the selection of a program committee to consist of Black, Lindsay, and Harkey, and an entertainment committee to consist of Black, S. S. Henry, and Fred Furness. A smoker is scheduled for the next regular meeting, which will be held on November the fifth.

HOOD SPEAKS IN CHARLOTTE
Dr. Frazer Hood addressed the Piedmont Teachers Regional Association on the subject “Relation of the eight-month School Term to College Entrance.” This meeting was held in Charlotte on Friday. Dr. Hood was elected Chairman of the group on Higher Education at this meeting.