THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 12, 1935

Concert Given By Kate Field
(Continued from Page 1)

singing with Rimsky-Korsakoff’s “Song of the Bride” from “Tsar’s Bride.” After this came four compositions of Rachmaninoff. These were “Field
Beloved,” “Lilacs,” “To the Children,” and “The Floods of Spring.” The concluding group on the program consisted of “To Daisies”
by Quilter, “A Young Gentleman” by Carpenter, Hadley’s “The Time of Parting,” Rich's “American Lullaby,” and as the last selection
Hughes’ “Curly Locks” from “Parodies.”

The next concert in this series will be the “Siberian Singers” on February twenty-fifth. This concert is supposed to be
one of the best in the country, and the Davidson Music Department is very fortunate to obtain them.

Fifteen to Receive Keys At Phi Beta Initiation
(Continued from Page 1)

versity of Chicago, an LL.D. degree from Washington University, and a Litt.D. degree from Bucknell University. Dr. Robertson held various
positions at the University of Chicago until 1923 when he undertook the job of investigating two hundred American Colleges for
the American Association of Colleges. He held this latter position until 1920 when he became president of Goucher College. He
is a member of Phi Beta Kappa, Phi Omicron Delta, and Gamma Delta social fraternity. A number of books and
articles have been written by him concerning popular education.

The presence of all members of the Gamma Chapter of Phi Beta Kappa who live in the surrounding parts of
the country will be gladly received at both the initiation and the banquet.

Sophs Shine As Hosts In Their Annual Dances
(Continued from Page 1)

son, Miss Hannah Knowlton, Charlotte, with Harry McLaughlin; and Miss Merle Kirkwood, Hattiesburg, Miss., with Billie Battle Crooks. Several members
of the faculty with their wives have been invited to act as chaperones at all of the dances. Girls from
all sections of the south and east have been invited to attend this house party and all nine social fraternities
will hold open house in connection with this occasion.

Officers for this year’s sophomore class are: Lafferty, president; Monroe Wicker, vice-president; Billie “Teeny” Battle Crooks, secretary and treasurer.

Jelly Leftwich played here December 16 and 17, 1932, with perhaps one of the most original novelty dances offered at
the Saturday afternoon tea dance, in the form of a cabaret. Tickets for the dances will go off sale Friday
afternoon, December 13.

Dr. Walter L. Lingle was the guest speaker at the high school chapel service Friday morning, Dec. 6. His subject
was “Woodrow Wilson.”

Now Thru SATURDAY
GARY COOPER
ANN HARDING
in “Peter Ibbetson”

Monday — Tuesday — Wednesday
The season's outstanding Romantic-Comedy ... A gay salute to life, love and FUN!!!!
BARBARA STANWYCK
with
ROBERT YOUNG
CLIFF EDWARDS
Ruth Donnelly

—All Xmas Week—
Ronald COLMAN, Elizabeth Allen, Edna Mae Oliver in Charles Dickens' “A Tale of Two Cities”
IMPERIAL THEATRE
Charlotte, N. C.

BROADWAY
ALL NEXT WEEK
Opening Monday, December 16th
EDWARD ARNOLD and PETER LORRE
In Dostoevsky’s Immortal “CRIME AND PUNISHMENT”

From every angle one of the best pictures I have ever seen! — Je Henderson, BOSTON SUN
“Spellbinding drama! One of the very fine pictures of the year!” — Mayme Ober Peake, BOSTON GLOBE
“For once justified!” — MOTION PICTURE MAGAZINE
“A milestone in motion pictures!” — Sonia Lee, FAWCETT PUBLICATIONS

Rats and Tea Hounds Fight to Scoreless Tie
(Continued from Page 1)

covered, to fail to gain. Georgia punted over the Watts’ goal line. From their own twenty, Watts kicked to their
forty-four. After another exchange of punts, in which neither team gained an advantage, the quarter ended.

The second period opened with the ball in Georgia’s possession on their own twenty-eight, from which stripe Dickson punted out
on his own forty-four. Coffin gained six yards, then five, for a first down for Watts. Georgia then incurred a
penalty for being off-side, and Watts was penalized fifteen for slugging. Tipton passed to Downie for twelve yards, and carried
the ball himself for a first down on the next play. After three incomplete passes and a run for no
gain, Georgia took the ball on downs, but Watts intercepted a pass from Johnson on the next play. Tipton fumbled
on the next play, recovered and threw a pass which fell into the hands of a Georgia player. Watts then
took time out. The half ended with the ball still in Georgia’s possession.

The second half went as the first had gone in the pass game. Georgia took the ball on a punt
from Downie soon after kicking off to Watts, and play hovered around the fifty-yard stripe until the Georgia threat in
the last few minutes of play. When a Georgia touchdown seemed certain, they lost the ball by inches on downs
on the Watts’ three-yard line, and a quick kick to the twenty-five held off the attack until the game ended
some fifty seconds later.

Considerable color was to be found in the activities of the bands and cheering sections of both aggregations. The rah
boys in charge for Georgia were Sugg and Allen, the former also occupying the podium before the Georgia band, and
for Watts, McCall and Kornegay, with Crooks holding the baton. The musical dialogue between the two was sustained throughout the
game: Watts would play “Stormy Weather,” and Georgia would come back with the contradictory “It Ain't Gonna Rain No Mo’.”
In verbal warfare, the boys from Watts would shout: “Go!” and Georgia would raise the question, “Where?” to which no
reasonable answer seemed ready.

During the half both bands took to the field, where sons of both dormitories, all but pouring forth their life’s
blood a moment before, carried on until the end of the intermission with selections and figures at once novel and
entertaining to an appreciative audience. Activities in the stands threatened more than once to steal the show from the warriors
on the field, but attention in this direction survived even the spectacle of Sugg and his crimson “G” (we heard
you—he’s a G man, eh?)

Nineteen Wildcats Awarded Varsity D
(Continued from Page 4)

The following Wildcats have been awarded letters: Cole Windham, Henry Cathey, Bailey Williams, Fields Young, John Lee, “Six” Johnston, Morris
Freeman, Joe Hunter, R. S. Johnson, Hunter McClung, Jim Johnston, Wood Burns, Paul Pittman, Baxter Yarborough, Midget Verble, EdArmfield, Tom
Corbin, Fred Dennis, and Martin Lafferty. Service letters for four years on the squad were earned by Jim Hodgin, Leroy
Blackwelder, O. F. Johnston, Al Stevens, Golsen, and Reginald Harris. Managers’ letters went to J. B. Griffin, and D. B.
Har- ris. Initiation for those who have earned awards, becoming D Club members for the first time, will be held
at a date not yet announced in the near future.

Davidson Matmen Will Meet Draper on 14th (Continued from page 4)
A great deal depends on the three new men, all of whom are sophomores, stepped up to fill the vacancies
left by those who graduated. “I think,” said Coach Unger, “that the two lightweights are the best at Davidson since
my arrival here.”

SPORT STACCATO (Continued from Page 4)
Salem on New Year's Day... Coach Newton is vacationing in Alabama... V.M.I. and W&L are reported to be on the
wrestling schedule for next year... Tice of the Kittens basketball team is little but plenty fast... “Oblegobble,” we predict, will
lead scoring... “Little Swede” was the most spirited in Saturday’s contest... Warren Gaw takes good care of his guard assignment.
Coach and Mrs. W. S. Newton, and their children, have gone to Birmingham, Ala., to spend the holidays with relatives.

Miss Elizabeth Shewmake, who is a sophomore at Cornell University, visited friends in Rochester, N.Y., during the Thanksgiving vacation. She
will spend the Christmas holidays with her parents in Davidson.

All-Campus Teams Selected For Stars Of Volleyball (Continued from Page 4)
GAME RESULTS
As the class contests had been finished, the fraternity matches were the only volleyball games to be played last week.
With the SPE’s battling them down the stretch, the Pikas won by a very narrow margin. Bob Sours was a
bulwark on the defense for the Kappa Sigs. The Pikas romped through the KA’s, 21-11, 21-8, with Milton, Durham, and
Dickson shining, and then went on to shade the Betas, 21-9, 21-15. Tom Downie, Sam Hutaff, and Joe Johnston led
the KA’s, while Edwards, Hall, Hobbs, Benfield, and Stocks were the Beta stars.

ALL-FRATERNITY TEAM
Milton
Dickson
Benfield, W. A.
Smith, C. G.
Kiesewetter
Durham

The SPE’s won their right to the final round by trouncing the Phi Delts, 21-18, 21-11. Barnett, Gilks, Jenkins, and
Lyons were the prominent figures in the SPE win, and Rainey, McClelland, and Carlyle Lewis led the Phi Delts. In
the finals, the consistency of the Pikas triumphed over the powerhouse of the SPE’s, and the final score showed the
Pikas to be the winners by a very close margin, 21-13, 21-17. Milton, Cline, and Durham were the Pika stars,
while Barnett, Gilks, Jenkins, Jim Knox, and Bill Rader led the SPE’s. The superior teamwork of Roy Gilks, Martin Barnett,
Jack Jenkins, and Gordon Smith led the SPE’s to beat the Pi Kappa Phi's, 21-10, 21-14. Joe Hunter, Arrowsmith, Herb
Willis, and Salty Peters stood out for the losers. In a game marked with unusual plays, the Betas nosed out
the Kappa Sigs, 21-19, 21-16. Bill Benfield, Bill Hobbs, Wilbur Edwards, and Moir Hall led the victors, while Bob Lindsay,
Wade Barrow, Paul Pittman, Ray Pittman, and “Booby” Sours were bulwarks on the defense for the Kappa Sigs.

Wishing You a Joyous New Year
M. H. GOODRUM
Dry Goods, Hardware & Groceries

We will be open during the XMAS HOLIDAYS and will welcome any of the students wishing GOOD FOOD AT REASONABLE
PRICES
DAVIDSON HOTEL

INTRODUCING!!
The most stupendous aggregation of Wild West performers ever assembled at once for your entertainment and amusement! Buffalo Bill’s Wild
West 4 days beginning Monday, Dec. 16. Show recreated for the screen in all its glory for ANNIE OAKLEY -
STATE RKO-RADIO PICTURE

Quality and Service
NO MATTER WHAT TYPE OF UNDERWEAR YOU PREFER—YOU’LL FIND IT MADE BY HANES
Quality is built into every Hanes garment. On sale at all good stores at popular prices.

Since 1799 thousands of people have regained their normal health after years of suffering from stomach troubles of all types,
such as constipation, indigestion, gas, and sour stomach which are the basic factors of such maladies as high blood pressure,
rheumatism, periodic headaches, pimples on face and body, pains in the back, liver, kidney and bladder disorder, exhaustion, loss of
sleep and appetite. Those sufferers have not used any man-made injurious chemicals or drugs of any kind; they have only
used a remedy made by Nature. This marvelous product grows on the highest mountain peaks, where it absorbs all the
healing elements and vitamins from the sun to aid HUMANITY in distress. It is composed of 19 kinds of natural
leaves, seeds, berries, and flowers scientifically and proportionately mixed and is known as LION CROSS HERB TEA. It tastes delicious,
acts wonderfully upon your system, and is safe even for children. Prepare it fresh like any ordinary tea and drink
a glassful once a day, hot or cold. A one dollar treatment accomplishes WONDERS; makes you look and feel like
new born. If you are not as yet familiar with the beneficial effects of this natural remedy LION CROSS HERB
TEA try it at once and convince yourself. If not satisfactory, money refunded to you. Try it and convince yourself
with our money-back guarantee. One Week Treatment $1.00. Six Weeks Treatment $5.00. In order to avoid mistakes in getting the
genuine LION CROSS HERB TEA, please fill out the attached coupon.

Lio-Pharmacy, 1180 Second Ave., N. Y. City, N. Y.
Gentlemen:
Enclosed find: $...............-..-- for which please send me..........-:.------- treatments of the famous LION CROSS HERB TEA.
NAME
ADDRESS

FAUL AND CRYMES, INC.
SPORTING GOODS
415 South Tryon Street
Charlotte, N. C.

SPECIAL price Dresser Sets for Men and Women
Evening in Paris
Coty
Houbigant

CHRISTMAS CARDS, TAGS, AND SEALS
WE WISH YOU A Merry Christmas
WHITINGSWORTH DRUG COMPANY
Martha Washington Candies
Whitman
Russel McPhail

New Ideas IN FORMAL WEAR At Tate-Brown’s College Shop
Out-of-date evening clothes can make you appear to be a “back-number” quicker than anything else. New ideas are constantly being
developed... ideas that make for smarter and more comfortable evening clothes. Our formal department has a well-earned reputation for being
first with the latest. And you pay no more for up-to-the-minute clothing and furnishings here.
TUXEDOS $27.50
TAILCOATS $35.00
Tate-Brown Co. College Shop
