THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 2, 1935

Pan-Hellenic Council Gives First Dances On Oct. 11-12
Popular Clemson Orchestra to Furnish Music For Events Next Week
THREE DOLLARS FOR SET
Plans Getting Well Under Way For Mid-Winters

The Pan-Hellenic Council will present the first set of dances of the season on October 11 and 12, in the Charlotte Armory Auditorium, it was recently announced by “Cokey” Branton, President. The dances are in celebration of the football game between Davidson and South Carolina.

The Council has booked the Clemson Jungleers to furnish the music for the occasion. The orchestra came into the limelight this summer by playing on the S. S. Acquitania and the S. S. Berengaria which sailed between New York and Southampton, England. The members of the orchestra are now students at Clemson College and promise enjoyable entertainment for the dances.

The dance set will feature one formal dance on Friday evening and a non-formal on Saturday evening. The Friday night dance will begin at nine-thirty o’clock and will continue until two. The Saturday night dance will begin at nine and continue until twelve, midnight. The rates for the whole set will be three dollars. Tickets for the Friday dance alone will be one dollar and fifty cents and the Saturday night dance two dollars.

The Pan-Hellenic Council has been making plans in advance for the coming event of the Mid-Winter dances. It is their aim to have a famous orchestra down for the occasion and plans have been made for advance payment for tickets in installments. A complete outline of the program is as follows: Each man is urged to sign for a set of tickets to the Mid-Winter dances and pays one ($1) dollar a month for five months. This is to ensure the council of enough money to pay the required amount as a deposit to get a popular orchestra. Tickets that are bought on this plan will be transferable but if a man begins to pay on the plan and finds that it will be impossible for him to continue payments, he will forfeit the money he has paid to the council. Fraternity men who wish to join in on this plan, do so by seeing the treasurer of their respective fraternity and the non-fraternity men may also join by seeing anyone of the members of the Pan-Hellenic Council.

On last Friday night the members of the council made a canvass of the dormitories in which approximately three hundred and ten men signed up. The goal of this new idea is four hundred, thus leaving them ninety men short of their goal. Every man on the campus that hasn't signed up for a set of tickets and plans to do so is urged to do so as soon as possible, requests “Cokey” Branton.

Definite plans for the coming Mid-Winter dances have not been announced, but the Pan-Hellenic Council is hard at work over the problem, and hopes to make announcements as soon as everything has been worked out.

CINEMATIC COMMENTS

DAVIDSON THEATRE

Wednesday and Thursday, Oct 2 and 3
CHINA SEAS
A red-blooded, he-man fare in the way of a cinema, Wally Beery doing his dirtiest, Jean Harlow as China Doll, loving well and wisely; Rosalind Russell, charming and competent; Clarke Gable as a sea captain of a boat that sails the China seas. Beery betrays him and gets Harlow involved. Pirates raid the boat as a result.

Friday, Oct. 4
THE BIG BROADCAST OF 1936
This picture is a conglomeration of all the outstanding musical comedy stars of Hollywood, including Jack Oakie, Henry Wadsworth, George Burns and Gracie Allen, Bill Robinson and his nimble feet, Sir Guy Standing and Mary Boland.

Saturday, Oct. 5
POWDER SMOKE RANGE
A wild and wooly westerner with Hoot Gibson, Harry Carey, Bob Steele, and Tom Tyler. Steele and Tyler are honest cowboys who come into possession of a ranch and get mixed up with a crooked mayor. This should bring back pleasant memories to most of us.

Monday and Tuesday, Oct. 7 and 8
TOP HAT
On the syncopated feet of Fred Astaire and Ginger Rogers, Top Hat marches into the hit class. The plot centers around the old stand-by mistaken identity, but with new trimmings, new dance routines, song hits of the season, and hilarious comedy with Edward Everett Horton in situations that make the entire film as new as next year’s calendar.

Dr. R.E. Speer To Address Students
Lectures by Church Man Are Due in December

The Otts’ lectures, made possible in 1893 by the Rev. J. M. P. Otts, will be under the leadership of Dr. Robert E. Speer, secretary of the committee of Foreign Missions for the Northern Presbyterian Church, this year. The lectures will be delivered at the chapel hour in Chambers Auditorium, sometime in December.

Dr. Speer, who is one of the most prominent men in the Christian church, and one of the most powerful speakers in the country, was the unanimous choice of both the committee, consisting of Professors Hood, Beaty, and Schenck, and of the faculty. The subject of the course has not yet been decided, but it will probably continue the general theme used in the past: the defense of Christianity against the current heresies. The exact days of the lectures are also still indefinite.

Dr. Speer has played an important part in the Church, not only in this country, but all over the world. He has made several trips to the Far East, and on these trips has obtained material for many of his numerous books. During the World War he was on several advisory committees, and is at present the chairman of a committee dealing with relations with Latin America. Dr. Speer has also served as president of the Federal Council of Churches of Christ in America, and in 1927 was moderator of the General Assembly of the Presbyterian Church in the United States of America.

The Otts’ Foundation was established in 1893 by the Rev. J. M. P. Otts for the purpose of securing distinguished speakers for the college. Since that time there have been six courses, the speakers being the Rev. J. M. P. Otts, Rev. R. L. Dabney, Rev. J. B. Shearer, Rev. W. W. Moore, Rev. H. F. Kirk, and Rev. C. E. Macartney.

Interesting Books Added To Library

Twenty-six new books have recently been added to the Davidson library, including fiction, novels, biographies, and histories. New works of fiction are: Deep Dark River, by Rylee; One Light Burning, by Hutchinson; National Velvet, by Bagnold; Story of the Gypsies, by Bercovi; Death Comes to the Archbishop, by Cather; and The European Caravan, an anthology by Putman.

Historical biography lovers will be interested in: Alexander, The Corrector, by Olivier; Hampton and His Red Shirts, by Williams; and Pitcairn’s Island, by Nordhoff and Hall.

New scientific books include: From Galileo to Cosmic Rays, by Lemon; Electrons Plus and Minus, by Millikan; Mental Health, by Howard; and A Story of Oriental Philosophy, by Beck.

Listed under history are: The History of Spain, by Bertrand and Petrie; Black Reconstruction, by Du Bois; Road to War, by Millis; Medieval Culture, An Introduction to Dante and His Times, by Vassler; Massacre, A Survey of The American Indian, by Gessmer; Romantic and Historic Florida, by Verril; Florence and Her Treasures, by Vaughan; War Politics, and Reconstruction, by Warworth.

New religious works are: God at Work, by Brown; God and Social Progress, by Wallis; Truth and Brotherhood, by Buddha.

Other new additions are: Royal Palaces, Historic Castles and Stately Homes of Great Britain, by Geddi; The Forgotten Fifty Billions, by Craig; Self and Self Management, by Beinnel; and Biography, The Literature of Personality, by Johnston.

These additions cover all types of literature and many different subjects. They are all recent publications and offer better reading facilities for the students.

OVERCASH’S BARBER SHOP
FOR SERVICE at NO EXTRA COST

SUNDAY CHURCH RULES CHANGED
Regulations Affected by Substitution of Service For “Y” Vespers

New church attendance regulations, changing the church hour and also requirements on attendance, became effective Sunday, September 15, when the following rules were established:

First: Freshmen and Sophomores are required to attend the Vesper Services in Chambers Building on Sunday. Four absences are allowed each semester.

Second: Juniors are required to attend the Vesper Services in Chambers Building on Sunday. Six absences are allowed each semester.

Third: Seniors have the option of attending services at the Davidson Presbyterian church on Sunday morning, or the Vesper Services in Chambers Building Sunday evening. Six absences are allowed each semester. No extra absences are allowed for home church attendance.

The main differences between the old rules and the new are in the elimination of the Home Church attendance rule, and the substitution of the evening church services, for the “Y” vespers.

YMCA Deputations Are Being Planned
Several Delegations Have Already Been Sent Out

Two Y. M. C. A. Deputations have already been sent to nearby communities, and a group with Dr. Harding has been to the state convict camp near Huntersville. Several others are being planned in the near future under the direction of Wade.Boggs, member of the “Y” cabinet, in charge of deputations. Sunday, Sept. 15, John McMullen went to Mitchell College in Statesville, where he conducted the first vesper service for the students. On Sept. 29 J. M. Walker substituted for S. P. Marsh in the pulpit of the Davidson Unity Church. A group of four, with Dr. Harding, went to the prison camp the same day, and Munroe Wicker made a talk. “Major” Clark read from the Word, illustrating with a short talk, and the four together sang. Boggs states that all men interested in deputation work should report to him at once. Freshmen who want to enter this division of “Y” work will serve in minor roles at first, to gain experience, and as their work improves will be given more important assignments.

FOR STUFFY HEAD
A few drops up each nostril reduces swollen membranes, clears away clogging mucus, brings welcome relief.
Vicks VA-TRO-NOL 30c double quantity 50c

Town TATTLE
At an election held during the summer, Mr. F. L. Jackson was elected president of the Davidson Building and Loan Association, to succeed the late Dean J. M. McConnell. Prof. F. K. Fleagle was elected vice-president. Mr. C. A. Potts retains his post as executive secretary.

Col. and Mrs. John T. Rhett entertained at their home on North Main Street, Wednesday evening, in honor of Mrs. Gregg Black of Deland, Fla., sister of Mrs. Rhett. Mrs. Agnes Brown is visiting her father in Knoxville, Tenn. Mr. and Mrs. Nelson Mebane gave a dinner Tuesday evening for those Davidson students who are sons of missionaries. Mrs. C. J. McGehee, of Atlanta, Ga., is a guest at the home of Mr. and Mrs. Albert McClure. Mrs. McGehee is the mother of Mrs. McClure.

The Twentieth Century Club held its annual picnic Thursday evening, on the lawn of the Cloyd Potts home. Friday evening, the Thelemite Club picnic was held at the house of Dr. and Mrs. Scott C. Lyon. Mrs. Alec Haliburton has returned to her home in Miami, Fla., after a visit with her parents, Prof. and Mrs. W. L. Porter.

Among visitors on the campus this week were Mr. and Mrs. A. D. Keator, of Reading, Pa. Mrs. Keator, formerly librarian of the University of North Dakota, is now head of the public libraries of Reading.

The Hi-Y held its annual tap day last Monday morning in the high school auditorium. Lewis Parker presided, and Marion Bryant, student leader, gave a short talk on the history of the Hi-Y. Those boys tapped were Thomas Withers, George Withers, James Willis, Bill Wood, and Kenneth Foreman.

Miss Carolina Moffett, who is engaged in social welfare work in Richmond, Va., spent a few days with her parents, Rev. and Mrs. H. M. Moffett, last week.

Former R.O.T.C. Officer Dies at Leavenworth
Capt. John W. Elkins, Jr., formerly of the Davidson College R.O.T.C. Department, died unexpectedly at Fort Leavenworth, Kansas, last Saturday, Sept. 28. Capt. Elkins was born March 20, 1887, in South Carolina, where he joined the reserve corps. During the World War he rose from a reserve lieutenant to a captain of infantry. His widow and four children survive. His father, a retired Methodist minister, lives in Columbia, S. C. Burial will be in Arlington Cemetery.

New Chapel Service Announced by Pfohl
An innovation in the regular chapel services was announced last Saturday by Professor J. C. Pfohl. The program will include folk and school songs to be sung by the students at one chapel service each week. The organ prelude and hymn will not be included in this weekly program, Professor Pfohl said. The devotional exercises and announcements will be the early part of the period, the rest of the time being given to singing.

Announcing the GRAND OPENING of the DAVIDSON AND DAVIDSON COLLEGE New and Modern 5 & 10c Store
We Will Cater to Your Wants and Invite Constructive Criticism
Southern 5 & 10c Store

DAVIDSON BAND TO GO ON TRIP
Davidson College Band to Accompany Football Team to Charlottesville
The Davidson College Band will accompany the football team to Charlottesville, Va., for the University of Virginia-Davidson game next weekend, returning to Davidson via Mary Baldwin, at Staunton. The college band will leave Friday at midnight, after playing for the pep meeting, and go immediately by bus to Charlottesville, where the organization will arrive about ten or eleven Saturday morning. During the game that afternoon, the band will exhibit especially worked out formations while coming on the field and again in forming the “D” and “V” before the stands. Julian Helms, drum major, will twirl his fire-brand baton as he did in the State-Davidson game. After the game, the band will leave immediately for Mary Baldwin, at Staunton, where the members will be guests at dinner. That evening the group will play for a college reception, at which there will also be fifty boys from each of the following institutions: Washington and Lee, University of Virginia, and the military academies in the vicinity. After a night's lodging in Staunton, the band will return to Davidson Sunday.

Two Faculty Members Are Wed This Summer
The marriage of two members of the Davidson College faculty, Grier Martin, alumni secretary, and Albert McClure, “Y” secretary, were married during the past summer. Miss Louise Lott McMichael, Quitman, Ga., and Grier Martin, Davidson, N.C., were married in Quitman on July 14, 1935. Mrs. Martin is a graduate of Georgia State Woman's College in Valdosta, and studied last year at the Neighborhood Playhouse Studios in New York. Vereen Bell, class of '34, was the best man, and the ceremony was performed by Dr. L. Scott, ’08, Valdosta, Ga. The marriage of Miss Mary McGehee, of Atlanta, Ga., to Rev. Albert McClure, of Davidson, N.C., was solemnized at the home of Rev. and Mrs. J. K. Coit, Rabun Gap, Ga., on June 14. James H. Simpson, class of '35, was best man. Mr. and Mrs. Martin are making their home in the house formerly occupied by Miss Ellenwood. The McClures have an apartment in the A. R. Carter home on North Main. Both these men are still working at their accustomed duties on the campus. Since their student days, when McClure was president of the Y.M.C.A., and Martin was editor of The Davidsonian, these men have filled important places in the activities of the college.

Blythe Appointed Athletic Director
Whittle and Unger to Teach Physical Education
Professor Blythe, Davidson College Spanish professor, has taken over the duties of Captain Pritchett for the coming year. Captain Pritchett, who has been athletic director of Davidson for the past few years, resigned to accept a similar position at the University of Virginia. Professor Blythe undertakes the duties of Captain Pritchett due to his position as Chairman of the Faculty Athletic Committee. This committee is composed of Prof. Blythe, chairman, Prof. Currie, Mr. Jackson, Mr. McGill, and Prof. Wood. The work of Prof. Blythe will consist mainly in arranging schedules and in making plans for football games and other athletic contests. In this work, Heath Whittle and Mr. Shaw are giving their assistance. This work of Prof. Blythe will not interfere with his continuing his work as Spanish professor. The teaching of the Physical Education classes is being taken over by Heath Whittle and Coach Unger.

J.O. JONES, INC.
HART-SCHAFFNER and FINE BLUE RIDGE HOMESPUN SUITS at $30.00
THEY ARE MARVELOUS
J.O. JONES, INC.
Charlotte, N. C.

MONEY NO OBJECT IF IT’S A QUESTION OF HEALTH
Since 1799 thousands of people have regained their normal health after years of suffering from stomach troubles of all types, such as constipation, indigestion, gas, and sour stomach which are the basic factors of such maladies as high blood pressure, rheumatism, periodic headaches, pimples on face and body, pains in the back, liver, kidney and bladder disorder, exhaustion, loss of sleep and appetite. Those sufferers have not used any man-made injurious chemicals or drugs of any kind; they have only used a remedy made by Nature. This marvelous product grows on the highest mountain peaks, where it absorbs all the healing elements and vitamins from the sun to aid HUMANITY in distress. It is composed of 19 kinds of natural leaves, seeds, berries and flowers scientifically and proportionately mixed and is known as LION CROSS HERB TEA. LION CROSS HERB TEA tastes delicious, acts wonderfully upon your system, and is safe even for children. Prepare it fresh like any ordinary tea and drink a glassful once a day, hot or cold. A one dollar treatment accomplishes WONDERS; makes you look and feel like new born. If you are not as yet familiar with the beneficial effects of this natural remedy LION CROSS HERB TEA try it at once and convince yourself. If not satisfactory money refunded to you. Try it and convince yourself with our money-back guarantee. One Week Treatment $1.00. Six Weeks Treatment $5.00

In order to avoid mistakes in getting the genuine LION CROSS HERB TEA, please fill out attached coupon.
Lio-Pharmacy, 1180 Second Ave., N. Y. City, N. Y.
Gentlemen: Enclosed find $........ for ........ treatments of the famous LION CROSS HERB TEA. which please send me........
NAME........
ADDRESS........