THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 17, 1935

MOVIES SHOWN IN LABORATORY

Automobile Industry Is Subject Of Three Pictures Shown To Students

The students of the Physics and Chemistry Departments witnessed the showing of three two-reel movies in the Chemistry Laboratory at
7 o'clock last Friday evening. These pictures were made for the General Motors Co., and were loaned to the local
science departments through the courtesy of the National Y.M.C.A. Each of the pictures dealt with a different phase of the
automobile industry.

The first of the group was entitled “Men and Motors.” In the form of a dialogue between a company official
and two young visitors, this picture explained many of the features of the General Motors plant, emphasizing the importance of
skilled labor in the manufacture of the various parts of their cars.

The second, “What Makes a New Car?” showed something of the work of the company’s testing laboratories, calling particular attention
to the improvements in body finishes, fan belts, and brake bands. This picture also contains a discussion of the efforts
made by their scientists to lower the amount of gasoline consumption.

The third and last of the series was named “The Fourth Essential.” It opened with a view of the early
“benzine-buggies” from which our modern vehicles have evolved. The driver of this “speed-chariot” prophesied the great future of the commerce
which will grow out of the horseless carriage. His talk was accompanied by pictures illustrating the performance of modern autos
and the showrooms, roads, filling stations, and other results of its low cost and wide distribution.

Throughout the year it has been the policy of the Chemistry and Physics Departments to offer sound films of scientific
interest to their students. This set will probably conclude the series for the year.

AT THE LOCAL THEATRE

Wednesday, April 17
THE LITTLE MINISTER
A beautiful adaptation of Barrie’s famous romance with Katherine Hepburn as Babbie and John Beale in the title role. This
is an unusually fine show and contains some of the season’s finest acting.

Thursday, April 18
GEORGE WHITE’S SCANDALS
It is a bigger and better production than last year’s. Alice Faye and James Dunn turn in a fine performance
as a song team, and the show contains some of the latest song hits.

Friday, April 19
BABY FACE HARRINGTON
This is one of Charles Butterworth’s best comedies. It is a delightful comedy that has a hilarious ending.

Saturday, April 20
HOLD ’EM YALE
An exciting football story starring Buster Crabbe that will have you on the edge of your seat every minute. A
thrilling and exciting story that every football lover will like.

Monday, April 22
TRAVELING SALESLADY
This is the reverse of the story of the famous traveling salesman. It has an exciting end and a humorous
plot that all lovers of Joan Blondell will like.

Tuesday, April 23
FOUR HOURS TO KILL
This is an exciting mystery story that will make your hair stand on end.

Net Team Wins Over Richmond
(Continued from Page 4)
men downed the University of Richmond team 9-0. In this match, the Richmond team was unable to take a set.
The number one player of the Richmond team was out of town and did not compete. The varsity matches for
the following week are: Friday, April 19, University of South Carolina and Saturday, April 20, the University of Richmond. Both
of these matches will be played on the local courts.

Dr. Lingle Speaks At Peachland High
Four Professors Attend Presbytery This Week

Dr. Walter L. Lingle returned to the campus Sunday evening, after preaching the baccalaureate sermon for the high school of
Peachland, N.C. Dr. Lingle found it especially interesting to speak for this school because of the fact that several members
of the faculty are graduates of Davidson College. Dr. Lingle, accompanied by his brother, Dr. Thomas Lingle, and by Drs.
Richards and Moffett, were present at the meeting of the Presbytery in Salisbury this week. Tomorrow Dr. Lingle goes to
Maxton, N.C., where he will be the guest of the First Presbyterian Church and the Junior College for a series
of talks.

Fellowships Are Given To Davidson Graduates

From the twenty-six fellowships that were recently awarded by the University of North Carolina Graduate School, graduates of Davidson received
three. These fellowships carry stipends of $500 each and scholarships for tuition. Those who received them will be expected to
do teaching in part of their time. The successful applicants from Davidson, and their departments, are:

Eta Sigma Phi To Meet For Choosing New Men

Shortly after spring services a meeting of Eta Sigma Phi, national honorary Greek andClassical literature fraternity will be held. At
this meeting, Prof. J. C. Bailey will give a talk on some phase of classical literature. Following this, members will
decide to whom bids will be extended this year. The present members of Eta Sigma Phi are as follows: Prof.
J. C. Bailey, Prof. E. A. Beaty, Dr. W. R. Grey, Dr. C. R. Harding, Dr. G. R. Vowles, and
among the students, W. A. Benfield, D. R. Brandon, G. H. Brown, C. B. Chapman, R. T. Coit, C. A.
Coleman, J. M. Douglas, G. L. Gullette, S. N. Milton, W. D. Morton, W. C. Neil, W. B. Ravenel, A.
B. Rhodes, C. B. Ross, C. G. Smith, R. H. Smith, H. M. Toole, and J. M. Walker.

Rare Maps Featured In Newest Library Exhibit

The College Library will have a new display soon, showing two very rare maps which will draw the interest of
every student. The first map is called “A Blaew Map” of England, written in 1646, showing interesting variations in topography
and condition of pre-industrial England. The second map, from Spade’s Atlas, is a plan of the Carolinas printed in 1676.
This map, printed only 13 years after the Carolinas were founded, is probably the earliest English map of this section
in existence. It is a hundred years older than any maps in the great North Carolina collection at Duke University.

“DRUGS” “SODAS” A Complete Drug Store “Make Our Store Your Store” Reliable Prescription Druggist White Drug Co. “SUNDRIES” “PRESCRIPTIONS”

Town Elections To Take Place May 7 Mayor T. M. Griffith Will Run For Re-election

The town elections for the city of Davidson will be held on the 7th day of May, 1935. The present
mayor, T. M. Griffith, will run for re-election for the office he is now holding. Members of the present board
are W. B. Barnett, A. B. Kuhn, C. A. Potts, W. H. Thompson, and W. W. Wood. At a recent
meeting held on March 29, R. D. Mooney, W. E. Potts, and John Raymer were nominated to serve as new
members on the board.

Mayor T. M. Griffith recently made a trip to Raleigh to see the heads of the Health and Federal Aid
Departments in regard to projects which he plans to put into effect upon his re-election to the office of mayor
of Davidson. In order to carry out his plans, Mayor Griffith has asked $115,000 of the Federal Aid Department to
complete the five main projects in his platform. In these projects, he is going to have the Concord Road paved,
a sewerage disposal plant built, more sewerage and water lines put down, a gymnasium built for the high school, and
pave the streets of Davidson, putting down sidewalks where they are needed.

Sigma Pi Sigma Elects Al Kuhn For President

In a meeting held by Sigma Pi Sigma on Monday the 18th, talks were made by members of the physics
fraternity on two interesting subjects. Dunc Johnson of the Junior class gave a talk on several different phases of television,
explaining the actions of light in this case and its relations to the laws of physics. Following this, Phifer Erwin,
also of the Junior class, gave a short detailed description of the actions of polarized light, and an explanation of
these actions.

After the talks, business of the fraternity was taken up and elections of new officers were made. The result of
the election was as follows: Al Kuhn, Davidson, president; Tom Marchant, Greenville, S. C., vice-president; J. G. Anderson, Tampa, Fla.,
secretary-treasurer.

The present members of Sigma Pi Sigma are as follows: Dr. J. L. Douglas, Dr. J. M. Douglas, Prof. H.
E. Fulcher, Prof. W. M. Mebane, Prof. W. W. Wood, and among the students, W. M. Bogart, J. M. Douglas,
S. K. Eaton, G. P. Erwin, A. A. Kuhn, P. M. Marchant, J. T. Morrow, C. A. Monroe, and J.
H. Powell. The latest addition to Sigma Pi Sigma is a chapter at Michigan State College. The entrance of this
college into the fraternity makes the total number of chapters belonging to this fraternity twenty-eight.

Suits Linens—$15.00 Flannels—$23.50 Gaberdines—$28.50 Suits Made to Measure with the Latest Spring and Summer Styles. VAN PATTERSON 414 WEST

I am made only of the choice center leaves. The top leaves are bitter, biting. The bottom leaves are gritty,
tough and unpalatable. My fragrant, expensive center leaves—so mellow and rich—give you the mildest, best-tasting smoke. I do not irritate
your throat. To anxiety I bring relief. I’m your best friend. Copyright 1935, The American Tobacco Company
