THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 4, 1935

VANITY TEAMS ARE PAIRED FOR DEBATE

Western, Southern, and Northern Tours Are Planned For Eight Debaters

THREE GROUPINGS MADE

Heavy Home Debating Schedule Has Been Planned

As final negotiations for the current debating season begin, contracts for the entire western trip and for some of the
northern and southern meets have been sent. Pairings have been announced by the faculty committee as follows: southern team—Boggs and
Port; western team—Edwards and Sugg; northern team—Salango and Stewart.

On the western tour, Edwards and Sugg will debate the University of the South, Centre College, West Virginia University, and
Washington and Lee. The order of debate taken by the Davidson team will be affirmative, negative, affirmative, and negative, at
the schools in that same order. Teams scheduled to date for Boggs and Port on the southern trip are the
University of South Carolina, the University of Miami, and Emory University. Negotiations are under way for a fourth debate on
this trip.

Salango and Stewart, on the northern trip, will encounter Swarthmore, the University of Maryland, Lafayette, and the University of Richmond.
The very crowded and perhaps one of the most difficult home schedules undertaken here in recent years already includes Washington
and Lee, the University of South Carolina, Lafayette, the University of Richmond, and the University of Maryland. The pairings for
home debates will probably be somewhat different from those for the trips. The southern team will leave February 25; the
western team, March 10; and the northern, March 23.

Library Shows Growth In Interesting Exhibit

During the last week, the Library has had on exhibit the first Library Catalogue and several pictures of the different
buildings that have contained the library. When the catalogue was first made in 1841, there were two hundred and thirty-one
volumes on hand. At this time, the two literary societies had libraries containing about seven hundred volumes each. In July,
1837, the Philanthropic Society appointed a committee to procure funds for the purchase of books. The supply on hand in
December justified a committee to petition the trustees for ten thousand dollars with which to increase the library. The small
collection, around two thousand volumes, was lost in its new quarters, a room in Chambers building. The library of Davidson
College was begun in 1837, two years after the birth of Mr. Carnegie, who gave the present building. The first
library was in the old chapel building, now Shearer Hall. It was next moved to a room in the Old
Chambers building and then to its present building.

Schenectady, N. Y.—Students at Union College here will be taught practical politics in 1935 if a plan announced by Dr.
Dixon Ryan Fox, president of the college, is carried out. Aiming to fit college students for government service by modernizing
the study and bringing theory and practice together, Dr. Fox has arranged to have students study at first hand the
vast mechanism of Democratic rule in New York State. He also plans to have the most promising students taken in
as “internes” by various state offices to work as special employees, continuing their studies at the same time.

Cars for Rent
Gulf Gas and Oil
M. P. HENDERSON

SING FOOTBALL SWAN SONG

The Eumenean Literary Society held its meeting in the Eu hall Tuesday night, December 2. The regular meeting scheduled for
last week was held at this time in order to avoid conflict with the presentation of a play by the
Red and Black Masquers. The newly elected president, Joe Dees, presided over the meeting. The program featured a talk by
Jack Branch. This talk was followed by the reading of papers by men seeking admission into the society. Frank Sinclair
read a paper on New Styles of Architecture. This was in accordance with a recently adopted custom that all men
seeking membership should read an original paper before the society. The initiation of new members, formerly scheduled for the meeting
last Tuesday, was postponed to a future date.

FERA Workers at VPI Are Higher In Studies

Blacksburg, Va.—FERA students at Virginia Polytechnic Institute here made better grades during the first quarter of the current school year
than their classmates, despite the fact that they were working part-time, a study of class averages reveals. In every class,
the FERA workers excelled the non-working students. Senior FERA students earned a 1.94 quality credit average, while the entire class
average was 1.47. Freshmen workers netted 1.18 and the rest of the class 1.07. R. Humbert, the executive secretary of
the school, who evaluated the student program, pointed out that the students realize the special effort the college is making
to assist them.

In Albany, the vast mechanism of Democratic rule in New York State government will be studied at first hand. Dr.
Fox plans to have the most promising students taken in as “internes” by various state offices to work as special
employees, continuing their studies at the same time.

Yarborough, Fields Young, Wood Burns

In a blaze of glory, Co-captains Cole Windham and “Flip” Cathey ended brilliant football careers, leading the Davidson “Cats” to
victory in the last game of the season with the Wake Forest “Deacons.” Eight other seniors played their last game:
Paul Pittman, “Swede” Johnson, John Lee, “Midge” Verble, and “Six” Johnston.

Eu and Phi Literary Groups

PHILANTHROPIC

The regular meeting of the Philanthropic Literary Society was held Tuesday night with a devotional exercise led by J. I.
McQueen. The members then enjoyed several piano selections from the nimble fingers of Scott. A talk was made by H.
L. Henry on the purpose of a constitution in order that members would more fully realize the need of a
constitution for the society. The meeting closed with a discussion of the society’s constitution. The regular meeting was not held
last week because of the play given by the Red and Black Masquers. The previous week, colors were chosen as
the official society colors.

Hear Original Papers Read

In connection with the preceding talk, the meeting featured the reading of original papers by men seeking membership in the
society.Virginia Weidler Diehie Moore ALL NEXT WEEK 25c MATINEE 30c NIGHT

IMPERIAL THEATRE

Theme of Presbyterian Celebration to Be ‘Christ and His Church First’

TO BEGIN IN FEBRUARY

Occasion Seen as a Challenge to Deeper Faith

Dr. P. L. Gwynn, professor of education, attended a meeting of the committee for the Diamond Jubilee of the Presbyterian
Church of the United States last Tuesday, December 3, at Atlanta, Georgia. At this meeting, plans were discussed for the
celebration of the Diamond Jubilee, which will begin about February 1930 and will continue through December of that year. The
theme of this celebration will be “Christ and His Church First.”

Adopting the Diamond Jubilee Year bulletin on the above as its theme for an advance of our loyalty, it says,
“the General Assembly challenges every member of the Church to a deeper faith in Jesus Christ as Saviour and a
fuller acknowledgment of Him as Lord, and to a new acknowledgment of the Church as the Body of Christ, in
confidence that only as we live and think in these terms will we completely realize the possibilities of spiritual growth
that this great occasion holds out to us.”

Dr. Gwynn is the only member officially attached to Davidson College, but there are a number of alumni on the
committee. Dr. Gwynn is not only on the main committee, but he is also on the Sub-committee of Church Loyalty
and Local Celebrations.

Cumming Will Present Paper On Cartography

The annual meeting of the North Carolina Literary and Historical Association will be held at Raleigh on Thursday and Friday
of this week. Dr. W. P. Cumming of our faculty will present, as part of the program for the meeting,
a paper entitled, “Early Carolina Cartography.” Dr. Cumming has done extensive work on this subject in university libraries all over
the country, the Congressional Library at Washington, the British Museum, and the Bodleian Library at Oxford. He is the leading
authority on this subject. The address is to be published in the next issue of the North Carolina Historical Review.

Gwynn Attends Meeting Of Church Jubilee Committee

DISCUSSION LED

Lingle Will Represent Davidson At Gathering Of Southern Colleges

BY T. D. MULLIS

Ministerial Band Authorizes Reading of Constitution at Each Meeting

The principal feature on the program of the Ministerial Band at its meeting, Sunday afternoon, December 1, was a discussion
led by T. D. Mullis. The meeting was opened by the President, J. Salango, who read the sixth chapter of
Isaiah, after which Watson Street led in prayer. The Roll was called, showing 13 of the 43 enrolled members to
be present. This was followed by the reading of the minutes by the secretary. There was a discussion on the
constitution of the Ministerial Band, and a motion was passed voting to have the constitution read in full at the
following meeting, as several objections had been raised to portions therein. The meeting dismissed with the Mizpah benediction.

Dr. Thomas W. Lingle will represent Davidson College at the meeting of the Association of Schools and Colleges of the
Southern States which will be held in Louisville, Ky. on the fifth and sixth of December. This association includes all
the Southern States from Virginia to Texas, and as far north as Kentucky and Missouri. There will be a number
of North Carolina colleges and universities represented as well as some of the secondary schools. The Southern Association was organized
in 1885 and has held annual meetings ever since. This gathering will be its fortieth annual meeting. The officers of
this group are Superintendent H. B. Heidelberg of the Clarksdale, Miss., schools, president; President J. Thomas Davis of John Tarleton
Agricultural College, vice-president; and President Guy E. Snavely of Birmingham-Southern College, secretary-treasurer.

ROTC Take Verbatim

Our Store will be a good place to buy the things you'll need for your holidays. Come in early to
see a big shipment of new suits and overcoats.

Evidence that the class of '39 can boast several potential contributors to the “Boners” series is offered by these excerpts
from Major Cochran’s notebook:

Q. Define (verbatim) five rules of rifle marksmanship.
A. Verbatim: Res OF" 15--G; words of warfare. means “Revenue Officers’ Training Companions.”

MON.—TUE.
Edgar Wallace's “SANDERS OF THE RIVER”
Leslie Banks Paul Robeson

STATE Until 6 20c

HARDWARE DRY GOODS

M. H. GOODRUM & CO.
Davidson’s Oldest and Best

FRI.—SAT.
KEN MAYNARD “His Family Tree”
“WESTERN COURAGE”
A delightful Comedy Serial and Comedy 15c

THU.—SAT.
ZANE GRAY’S “NEVADA”
Buster Crabbe

Watch For “ANNIE OAKLEY”

Wanted by More Students Than All Other Standard Brands Combined

Every time that you write, your Train of Thought flashes along rails more delicate than gossamer. And every petty annoyance—every
distraction—caused by a pen that skips and runs dry in study periods, classes, or exams, obstructs the track and derails
the train.

Hence Parker Created 102% More Ink Capacity and Visible Ink Supply

That’s why thousands of students are replacing their present pens with this revolutionary new Parker Vacumatic with a visible ink
supply and 102% more of it. By holding this miracle writer to the light, they can see the ink level—see
days ahead if it’s running low. It is laminated—built up ring upon ring of shimmering Pearl and Jet—smart, velvet-like, wholly
exclusive.

LESS THAN ACTUAL SIZE

From Harvard to Southern California

It contains no rubber sac found in sac-type pens—no squirt-gun piston pump like other sacless pens—nothing to render it useless
later on. That’s why it is guaranteed mechanically perfect. Go to any good store selling pens and try it yourself.
The Parker Pen Company, Janesville, Wis.

Parker Vacumatic

GUARANTEED MECHANICALLY PERFECT

Pencils, $2.50, $3.50, and $5

$5 $10 Junior Over-Size, $8.75

A BRAIN HARASSED BY A PEN THAT RUNS DRY, LOSES ITS TRAIN OF THOUGHT

Clean Careful Correct HAIRCUTS at NORTON’S BARBER SHOP

$22.50 — $25.00 $27.50 $30.00

J. O. JONES, Inc.
