THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 27, 1935

HONOR ROLL
Chosen As Stars By Mal Grimes Benfield, and Abell Harrison, Frosh Sports Afield

HONOR ROLL
Knorr, Hodgin, Matthis, And King Picked As “B” Team Stars By J. B. Goslen

By HARRY KUYKENDALL

A very interesting item concerning Davidson...

DAVIDSON TO THE ROSE BOWL

“From the hotbed of local football fight and post-game stories comes a unique request, its essence that, on paper, it is nothing more than a plea to send Davidson to the Rose Bowl in 1936.

“Certainly I'll do it: I like Davidson. I like the buildings. I like the atmosphere. I like to watch them play football. Concord men are represented on the squad. The school has gone on record as opposed to drinking in the stadium. Some of my best friends are graduates. One of my favorite presidents spent a whole year at the institution. When the new road is completed I'll be able to ride to Davidson without spending the next week getting the dust out of my eyes. Certainly I'll do it.

“Next year the Wildcats play North Carolina, Duke, State, and Navy. Who can deny that such a schedule is impressive? And who can say that Davidson will not win these games? Who can deny the fact that only OU students matriculate at the college? This fact alone is worthy of intense consideration. It would be much easier for OU students to go to California than it would be for, say, ten or fifteen thousand.

“Other schools become ‘Rose Bowl bound’ before the seasons start. Maybe that’s the trouble with them. This, then, is a perfect opportunity. The Wildcats don’t expect to go anyhow, so the campaign can’t hurt them.

“On to California in 1936!”

One of the largest pep meetings in Wake Forest history is being planned Wednesday night prior to the Turkey Day clash with the Wildcats. Lajama music, speeches by coaches, and everything will be laying for us. Just the fact that the game will be played there indicates that it'll be tough. Every member of the Wildcat squad knows that the game will be a tough one and they have already pledged themselves to give their best. Dick Johnson, injured linesman, has had a nose guard riveted on his headgear, and will be ready to show that he is certainly of all-State caliber. Practically the whole team is in good shape for the clash. It’s gonna be a tough one, too.

Someone has made the suggestion, “Why not let the soccer men use the red football jerseys after our grid season is over?” This is indeed a splendid idea as the local team has no uniforms at all and as everyone knows, the varied assortment of garments now used do not make for an appearance worthy of a team representing Davidson.

13-year-old Walter Mott of Barium Springs Orphanage possesses the true Wildcat spirit. When 18 members of the Barium football squad were selected to go to Durham for the annual Duke-Carolina clash, Walter was left out and so keen was his disappointment that he scribbled a...

(Continued on Page 6)

BEAT WOFFORD

Frosh Team Ends 1935 Season In Blaze Of Glory By Defeating Wofford

BEATY SCORES FIRST
First Year Men Revenge Defeat Of Previous Season

Ending a five-game schedule, the Davidson Wildkittens stormed over the Wofford freshman eleven last Friday. The 32-7 victory avenged the 9-7 defeat suffered by the Red and Black team during the 1934 season.

Beaty, fast Davidson back, carried the kickoff down the field for the first score. This early lead was strengthened by two more tallies during the second quarter. Stair ran the ball across the goal line after a drive at the beginning of the period brought the teams into Wofford territory. A few minutes later a recovered fumble gave Beaty the opportunity to score a second time. Wofford’s offense proved rather ineffective, although they made several gains through the line.

In the third quarter, the Wildkittens continued the attack, but Wofford succeeded in halting all attempts. Davidson was in possession of the ball most of the time because Wofford was forced to punt invariably in the face of the Red and Black forward wall.

In the last quarter, Davidson gained two more counters. The first was the result of a pass from Stair to Rudisill. Harrison converted the point after touchdown with a dropkick. Near the close of the game, a forward lateral was completed from Stair to Benfield to Harrison that added again to the Davidson score. The extra point in this case was earned by Hicks on a pass after a penalty placed the ball on the Wofford 18-yard line.

In the middle of the fourth quarter, Wofford gained its lone score when Moore passed to Hendley who gave a short lateral to Danner. Danner raced thirty-five yards for the touchdown, and he made the try for point on a place kick. Individual performance on the Wildcat team was excellent; the entire group...

(Continued on Page 6)

Seniors Trip Sophs To Hold Volley Ball Crown

Amid the recent Davidson-Duke football game, shouting that reminded one of 1936, the class of 1936 won the intramural volleyball crown for the second year in succession. They nosed out the Sophomores in a hard-fought battle Monday afternoon.

Previous to this contest, each team had won five matches while losing one. The Seniors took the lead at the beginning of the tournament by winning their first three contests. However, they were overcome by the Sophs last week. In Monday’s titular match, the class of 1936 won the first game 21-14, and seemed on the road to victory. “Goon” Vause was their offensive star and won many a point by his spectacular smashing. The Seniors won the second game handily by a 21-5 score. Their teamwork was much better and they were “setting the ball up” for Sam Milton and Bill Benfield.

As the teams changed courts for the third and final game, the Sophs went into a huddle and shook all hands. Then, spurred on by the shouts of Bill Kiesewetter to “feed it to the Goon,” they took command of the situation by running up ten points while the Seniors were making only one. However, from that stage, their lead slowly dwindled as the upperclassmen turned on the heat and finally won 21-19. Benfield, Milton, Bob Lindsay, and Joe Johnston played best for the seniors, while Vause, Wade Barrow, Lawrence Reid, and Captain Yates Faison looked good for the losers.

ALL-AMERICAN

Dick Johnson, brilliant Davidson College guard, has been named by Collyer’s Eye on the Small Time All-American football team. The publication terms Dick “the best guard in the Carolinas.”

Campus All-Star Athletes Chosen

Chapman To Coach

Coach “Chet” Chapman, engaged as varsity line coach for the duration of the football season, has been retained for the rest of this year and will coach Freshman basketball, varsity track, and also help out in other branches of athletics. The college hopes to have him next year also. Coach Chapman has proved very valuable to the athletic department and is very popular with those whom he has coached. “Chet” came to Davidson at the beginning of the football season this year after having played professional football with the Charlotte Pros.

PANTHERS SOON

A new and interesting Wildcat team has made a conspicuous start here and promises to furnish plenty of fireworks during the winter months. The Davidson shin-cracking artists have already played the High Point State Soccer Champions to a 3-3 tie and the ‘Cats are hard at work in preparation for their return game with the High Point Panthers. The ‘Cats have a fortnight lull between their first...Two games, The thirty members of the squad are working out daily on the freshman field in anticipation of their journey to High Point for the return match against the highly touted Panthers. The team will entrain for High Point on Wednesday, December third. In their workouts during the past week, Bill Bell has been doing his usual good work at his center forward position (Continued on Page 6).

Home... That's where we all would like to be this Thanksgiving. But unfortunately, most of us will have to remain in the vicinity of Davidson. The next best thing is to stop at the WOODEN BOWL DINING ROOM, 125 West Fourth Street, Charlotte, and enjoy a HOME-COOKED dinner in a HOME-LIKE atmosphere. DAVIDSON STUDENTS ALWAYS WELCOME.

Season Closes, Individual Stars On Tag Football and Basketball Teams Selected

Tag football goes into its closing stages with fast waning cries of “lateral!” on the campus. According to the age-old maxim, “honor to whom honor is due,” it now turns to a process of picking the individual stars on the all-star teams. The competition is divided into two classifications, inter-class and inter-fraternity football, so the stars were grouped into these two classes also. Heath Whittle, athletic director, “Mokey” Faison, his assistant, and representatives of the “Davidsonian” department, composed the group selecting these stars.

The all-class team was selected as follows: Walt Dickson, Carlyle Lewis, Sam Milton, Ken Knorr, John Partridge, Lawrence Reid, Bill Boyd, Jim Cothran, and Bill Bell. Honorable mention goes to Arthur Haake, Roy Gilks, “Buddy” Young, Dave Sellars, George Johnston, and Bill Benfield.

The all-fraternity team consists of the following: Walt Dickson, Pika; Ken Knorr, Pika; John Partridge, Phi Delt; Carlyle Lewis, Phi Delt; Dan Iverson, S.P.I.; Lawrence Reid, Phi Gam; Tipton, Kappa Sig; and Coffin, Beta. Honorable mention goes to Hank Loftin, Kappa Sig; Charlie Elder, Kappa Sig; “Buddy” Young, Kappa Sig; Bill Boyd, Phi Delt; Jim Cothran, Phi Delt; Buddy Rainey, Phi Delt; Roy Gilks, S.P.E.; Martin Barnett, S.P.E.; Jim Knox, S.P.E.; George Cowan, K.A.; Sam Hutaff, K.A.; Herb Willis, Pi Kappa Phi; Lamont, S.A.E.; Perry Sloan, S.A.E.; Max Brittain, S.A.E.; Bill Kiesewetter, Phi Gam; Joe McNab, Phi Gam; Dave Sellars, Beta; Wilbur Edwards, Beta; George Haywood Gray, and Dave Stocks, Beta.

Although inter-fraternity basketball will not come until after Christmas, Mokey Faison and Heath Whittle picked the following two teams from the inter-class sports competition (Continued on Page 6).

WILDCATS AND DEACONS RENEW ANCIENT RIVALRY IN TURKEY DAY CLASSIC

Pittman Injured In Scrimmage With All-Americans Monday—May Not Start

KITCHIN HEADS DEACS

Both Teams Fight To Avoid Big Five Cellar Position

The Davidson Wildcats, in their final game of the 1935 season, will clash with the Wake Forest Deacons in the annual Turkey Day classic. Both teams are in top physical and mental condition for the tilt, and this number of the series will be unusually closely contested not only because of the traditional rivalry between the Presbyterians and the Deacons, but also because it will determine which of the two teams will conclude their football season in the cellar position of the Big Five.

Coach Jim Weaver's team does not have an outstanding record for the current season, winning only two games in the entire season. They eked out a 7-6 victory over George Washington late in October. In the next game, they trounced the Blue Stockings of Presbyterian College by the score of 18-0. In spite of the comparatively poor record of the Deacons, they will be fighting every inch of the way for sixty minutes to stay out of the Big Five’s cellar. The Deacons will also be looking for revenge for the 13-12 licking the Wildcats handed them last Thanksgiving and also will be striving hard to get their third victory of the season.

The Deacons haven't looked so good this season because of the opposition they have been up against. Their main foes were North Carolina State, Duke, North Carolina, George Washington, and Miami University. They have been particularly dangerous all season with their deadly pass attack, with Walton Kitchin doing the heaving and Dallas Morris on the receiving end. Edens has also proved himself to be a fine pass receiver in the last three games. Daniels, a crashing fullback, will be playing his final game for the Baptists on Thursday, as will several others on the Deac squad. The most important losses that the Deacons will meet will be the loss of Kitchin, Daniels, Shore, Swan, and Captain Reinhardt. Kitchin furnishes the spearhead for the Deac attack along with Daniel and Morris. Shore, the Deac right end, has been an invaluable pass receiver while Wagner and Swan have been two of the hardest charging tackles in the state.

The Wildcats will be gunning for their fourth victory to bring them out with a percentage better than .500. The ’Cats won against Elon, South Carolina, and Virginia; were tied by the Citadel and the University of Virginia. The State Wolfpack beat the ’Cats as did the Duke Blue Devils and North Carolina. The entire Wildcat squad will be in (Continued on Page 6).

Interwoven Socks

2 pairs $1.00, 75¢ and $1.00 pair

Take a few minutes for socks before “taking off”... replenish your wardrobe with Interwoven... the new colors, fresh designs, new ideas, exclusively styled for Interwoven by J. B. IVEY & CO., Charlotte, N. C.