THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 1, 1935

The Davidsonian
Founded by the Class of 1915

MEMBER
Associated Collegiate Press

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Printed by the QUEEN CITY PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate year.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879.

ARTICLES FOR PUBLICATION must be in the hands of Managing Editors by 4:00 o'clock p.m., Monday. Letters to the Editor
are welcome, but all communications intended for publication must be signed.

EDITORIAL STAFF
LAMONT BROWN
R. P. MORROW

JIMM MORTON ................ Managing Editor
HOWARD OVERTON ........ Managing Editor
HAROLD SUGG ............... Managing Editor
DAYMOND TURNER .......... Managing Editor
VORNE WANN ................. Managing Editor
VARY KUYKENDALL .......... Sports Editor
MARTIN BARNES ............. Associate Editor
HARVEY GLASS ............... Associate Editor
PAUL CHAPMAN .............. Associate Editor
TOM MARCHANT ............. Associate Editor
JOHN WALKER ............... Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
CHARLES MAUZE ............ Circulation Manager
BILL SWOPE .................. Circulation Manager
BOB VANCE ................... Circulation Manager
HOKE ROBINSON ............ Advertising Manager
BILL HITT ..................... Collection Manager
BILL GOVERD ................. Assistant Business Manager

WEDNESDAY, MAY 1

All wish to possess knowledge, but few, comparatively speaking, are willing to pay the price—JUVENAL.

The Student Body extends deepest sympathy to John McQueen in his recent bereavement.

A SUGGESTION TO THE PAN-HELLENIC COUNCIL

The Pan-Hellenic Council, which is comprised of one senior representative from each of the nine social fraternities, is an organization
designed to regulate the social activities of Davidson College in view of the best interests of both the students and
the fraternities. The Council has thus far been given rather free reins in their selection of dance orchestras, and the
liabilities involved. The group as a whole are directly responsible for any losses which they may incur; also, any profits
which are made are equally distributed between the nine councilmen. This fact works a hardship on both the council and
the students. In many instances, fearing the possibility of having to make a withdrawal from their own pockets, the Pan-Hellenic
Council engages the services of a second or third-rate orchestra, thereby assuring themselves an easy profit, whereas the students can
receive only dissatisfaction and disappointment. This has only too often been illustrated by the actions of the past Pan-Hellenic Councils,
which have continuously made express promises to secure the best possible music their budget would allow; and as the students
easily recall, they have in no case fulfilled their part of the agreement.

There seem to be two very prevalent causes for these complaints. First: the members of the Pan-Hellenic Council do not
look upon their offices as other Student Body officials do. In the past, they have not been spirited enough to
give their services to the best interests of the Student Body without receiving some compensation, and always they have assured
themselves that they would be justly compensated. Second: the fraternities have shown a lack of interest in not requiring their
Pan-Hellenic representatives to be directly responsible to them for any action they may take. In reality, the councilmen are not
representatives of the social fraternities at all, but representatives of themselves and looking out for their own selfish interests.

Perhaps a solution to these difficulties might be found by allowing the fraternities to more directly sponsor the dances by
lending their financial support. Then the returns from the dances could either be divided between the fraternities at the end
of each year or turned into a fund to be drawn upon by the Pan-Hellenic Councils in the future. By
this method, the Pan-Hellenic Council, coordinating with the nine fraternities, would be able to secure a much better grade of
orchestras, and thus give the students a better return on their money. The Pan-Hellenic representatives would be directly responsible to
the social fraternities, which would in turn give them the necessary financial support.

The new Pan-Hellenic Council for next year has just recently been elected. Many members of the Student Body are eagerly
wondering whether these new men will follow in the paths of the old councilmen, or whether they will raise themselves
above this level and make the dancing situation one never before equaled at Davidson.

T. M. M.

VIRTUES OF IDEAL COLLEGE MAN

EVERY college wishes to be an ideal one, but few of us know exactly how to attain that goal. Perhaps,
some helpful information could be gotten from the following enumeration by Dean Berens, of Marquette University. Dean Berens has been
an instructor and advisor of boys and young men for more than twenty years, so you can take these ten
cardinal virtues of the “ideal college man” that he recounts as being a result of first-hand observation.

1. The college man should have a strong ambition to succeed, together with a determination to overcome obstacles.
2. He should take part in the normal activities of extra-curricular affairs, but without excess in them.
3. He should possess the qualities of leadership, but this does not imply that he must be a class officer
or hold office in campus organizations.
4. He may do outside work if he must, but it is better to save money for one or two
years after preparatory school, and then enter college.
5. As a character, he must possess the qualities of honesty, uprightness, courage, and fidelity.
6. He must be temperate.
7. Inasmuch as the countenance reflects the quality of the soul, he must give an outward appearance of pleasantness. He
need not be good looking or a Beau Brummel.
8. He must be mature. A boy who appears immature at the age of 18 should delay entering college. A
year or two of work would bring him into contact with the difficulties of life; he would learn the value
of money and develop a better outlook on education.
9. He must conduct himself in such a manner as will give evidence of a sincere Christian gentleman.

PARAGRAPHICS

The Junior class conducted one of the most impressive vesper services of the year, last Sunday night, on the lawn
in front of Chambers Building. There were three interesting talks by members of the class, music was furnished by the
college band, and a fairly large crowd was in attendance. Judging from the effectiveness of this service, it would seem
advisable that more of these Sunday evening programs be composed entirely of students. The Y officials are to be commended,
however, for the excellent array of speakers they have brought to Davidson this year.

According to all reports, the Davidson unit of the R.O.T.C. made an excellent showing in the recent government inspection. No
definite report has been received from the inspector, so it isn’t possible to know the exact rating received by the
local department, but from the many encouraging remarks made by the genial Captain Brand last Friday, it would be safe
to prophesy another excellent rating for the Davidson militarists. The Professors in this department are to be congratulated for their
efficient training of the cadets, and Cadet Lieutenant-Colonel Potter should also receive heartiest felicitations for his good work as commander
of the Davidson battalion.

Why is the tall graceful flag pole on the front of the Davidson campus never used, except at commencement time?
This has long been a question in the minds of many students. It would certainly be nice if this stately
gift of the class of 1917 could be made use of at least occasionally. In recent years, it has been
employed only for the purpose of waving in the breeze a sheet bearing the numerals of the freshman class, but
at graduation, when most of the students are gone, the Senior class raises its colors along with the Stars and
Stripes to the top of the pole and an attractive and imposing picture is created. It really does seem a
shame that this flag pole is used so little when it could be made to add noticeably to the front
campus.

Davidson radio programs have been resumed over station WBT and at the very odd hour of one o’clock every Monday
afternoon. This gives to many people who formerly were unable to hear the program an opportunity to now enjoy it.
Many have complained about the changing of times for these broadcasts, but it is to the school’s advantage to vary
the hour, because, even though everybody isn’t reached on all the broadcasts, some hours are more convenient than others for
listeners; consequently, those who were unable to tune in on the programs heretofore may be afforded that privilege with the
changed hour.

THE COLLEGIATE REVIEW

The influence of Popeye, the comic strip character, is being felt by the school cafeteria at North Carolina State College
(Raleigh), where spinach disappears more rapidly from the steam table than any other vegetable.

The oldest car on the campus at Ohio State University (Columbus) is a 1913 Ford roadster, with illumination provided by
kerosene lamps.

DAVIDSON off the RECORD
By HAROLD SUGG

Over twenty of the locals delved into the classical for entertainment Friday night and went over to hear Nelson Eddy,
a baritone who has to have a bodyguard to keep the women away. Those returning declare it the best entertainment
of the year, indicating no doubt to the old order’s chagrin that college boys are not utterly devoid of classical
appreciation. “The Prize Song,” from Wagner's “Die Meistersinger,” was one which received most favorable comment. Wiley Bradley accompanied one of
the fairer sex and Paul Harlan had his latest flame along with him.

Nothing is being done to lengthen rushing season. Will the rising Seniors take this opportunity to provide leadership and move
toward remedying this policy which is a menace to the Davidson Spirit of good-will that now exists between fraternities? Scholastically,
it is a nearsighted policy. An genial environment is no stimulus to scholarship.

Stars fell all over Davidson last Wednesday night when a feminine delegation from Salisbury arrived to encourage us to leave
our monastery for aHop Friday night. Circulating between the dormitories, they meandered down to the Student Store, followed by a
gaping crowd of some 100 bashful gentlemen. There they were met by Joe Dees, who introduced them to the president
of the student body, Henry Eave, and Vice-President Max Britain. President Eave promptly demonstrated his executive ability by having one
of them do a disappearing act. Amidst a milling crowd which insisted upon dashing in and out of the Student
Store, Manager Jimmy Simpson gave them half-interest in the business on the condition that they remain on exhibit. We saw
Joe Johnston, Baron Harkins, and Tom Breeden behind the counter, and Sam Ryburn helping them get along. Bill Bondurant and
Goof Cooke were loping hither and thither, and Biscoe Howell found a long-lost cousin. Another romance shattered. After a few
cheers and roars, the ladies were escorted to the Kappa Sig house for further entertainment. Many were they who went.
The Beta triumvirate, Bill Atwater, Bob Johnson, and Dave Sellars were there, and Ken Fryfogle, Walt Dickson, and Jack Somerville
as well. Howard Dyer, Tom Baskerville, President Eave, Don Stewart, and Frank Taylor were others who found the stomping ground
of Henry Davis a pleasant one. Geddie Monroe recited the epic relating to ants, Rig Dees was following a certain
Blue-gowned Alice, and Tom Brady was going for a Miss James. Our stooge reports that Jack Branch escorted Miss Armistead
and that Buddy Robinson had to give up Miss Shaver for a tenor saxophone. Pig-calling and Birds-in-Cages were much in
evidence. Undertakers Scotty McLeod, Gordon Smith, and Bill Harris went in search of a Dedmon. Perhaps they heard their death
knell.

Too quickly we prepare for the leaving of ‘35. Contemplatively, it seems that each class develops its own characteristic. The
seniors, although powerful in athletics, reached their crowning achievement in providing leadership. The juniors’ favorite field is on the track,
although they have lost some by graduation. The centennials (modest creatures) seem to be developing along “literati” lines. The freshmen
have distinguished themselves in two aspects, one of which is athletics. Wade Barrow, Billy Kiesewetter, and “Teeny” Lafferty are as
fine all-round athletes as one class could boast of.

NEWS NOTES: John Porterfield, Warner DuBose, Bill Atwater, and Harpo Harlan had, in turn, a mammoth bullfrog for a bedmate
last week. KAPPA ALPHA REBELS: “We will neither go to Charlotte nor Salisbury,” said fourteen members of this lodge, so
Friday night found them doing the Continental in the Trianon of Paw Creek City. Harvey MacConnell is heading a drive
for the Promotion of Pacifism. The Pi Kapps and the Pikas had parties over the weekend, while the S. P.
E.’s pulled a big one at the Carolina Country Club. The Civic League of Davidson held its regular meeting Tuesday
afternoon at the Civic League Hall. A book shower was held in the interest of the Davidson town library.

OUR CONTEMPORARIES By Enip Bowers

MILITARISTS... Students at the University of Georgia did not participate in the recent peace strike for three reasons: one, those
who think know that a mere walk-out will not aid one iota in the struggle for world peace; two, those
who don’t think did not have enough energy to walk out of class; and third, no classes were held at
11 a.m. anyway.

URIAH HEEP COMPLEX... Personal nomination for man of the month—the Clemson bandsman who not only invited two girls down for
Taps but brazenly put both names down on the dance list.

PROFESSORS... A professor at Brown University photographs every person who borrows money from him—maybe some professors are smart. A sign
on the dean’s office at Creighton University reads, “Get your grades and pass out quietly.” Then there was the professor
in a Virginia college who cut class for the first time in thirty years because he thought Washington's birthday came
on the twenty-second of March.

TO THE LADIES! Co-eds at Mercer should wear uniforms of an inconspicuous color and design, so that the men students
can better concentrate on their work, advises The Mercer Cluster. While in a letter entitled “Grin and Bear It,” a
Tulane co-ed complains to the editor of Hullabaloo of too much attention from the masculine element. Tulane has become a
school suited only for those co-eds who can “take it,” she avers.

INTELLIGENCE QUOTIENT... And then there was the Winthrop lass whose mother wrote: “What would you do if I sent you
a check for $1,000?” After due consideration, the loving daughter replied: “I'd have sense enough not to cash it.”

COLLEGIANA... Raising chickens in their rooms is the latest fad with the students at Marshall College (Huntington, W. Va.). A
Randolph-Macon official concedes, after room inspection, that if men are made of dust, her charges had better look under their
beds. The recent Little Commencement dances are hailed as the University of Georgia's soberest weekend. But there was the student
at Kentucky who attended German class for two weeks and thought he was taking geology. In a poll recently conducted
by the Sun Dial of Montreat Junior College, Davidson was named the most popular boys’ school, leading Clemson for that
honor by a margin of six votes. Incidentally, all but nineteen of the Montreat damsels cherish matrimonial intentions, and a
happy home life is, for a majority, the highest ambition—so, bachelor beware! Although only 957 students voted, there were 1,060
ballots cast in the recent S. G. A. election at Duke. The University was the only Virginia school to cooperate
wholeheartedly in the peace strike movement of a few weeks ago. Due to a faculty ruling, student body elections at
W. and L. can no longer be held in Lee Chapel. “Rain” has become the S. T. C. hens’ song,
reports a Rotunda columnist. Alabama Sie is celebrating an annual “Pill Week” in connection with approaching May Day festivities. Outsiders
have been barred from P. C. dormitories as a result of a recent wave of petty thievery. A University of
South Carolina student recently consumed twelve eggs at one sitting. Mars Hill will offer a course in journalism to those
students interested in campus publications. The Emily Post influence has penetrated as far south as V. P. I. Butter knives
and sugar spoons for the mess hall were requested in a recent letter to the editor of the Virginia Tech.

NEWS... From DAVIDSONIANS of Years Gone By

FIVE YEARS AGO Student Body officers installed at second annual Student Body dinner. ODK taps thirteen college leaders. Professor Beaty
speaks at vespers. May 6 set for Athletic Night. Wildcats defeat Deacons in track, 98-27, as three school records fall.
Professor Fleagle announces that plans for summer school are complete. Tennis team completes eastern tour. Captain Jack Pepper of the
golf team wins state golf championship. Press convention held in High Point. Freshman tennis team to play Darlington.

TEN YEARS AGO New College editors to hold semi-annual meeting here. Tennis team wins four big matches. 'Cat nine defeats
Guilford in fast game. Coach Younger signs to return next year. Dr. D. Clay Lilly talks at vespers. Freshmen defeat
State nine, 9-4. Five students in the infirmary with the mumps. R. A. Wilkinson and W. S. Adams chosen managers
of the Student Store for the coming year. Spanish Club to hold entertainment.

FIFTEEN YEARS AGO Track team defeats Clemson and University of South Carolina. Alumni issue of The Davidsonian issued. Meeting of
the Alumni Association called at Commencement. Baseball team defeats Elon, 6-3 and 3-0. Rifle match with Wofford canceled. Gamma Sigma
Epsilon, national chemistry fraternity, organized at Davidson. Reporters Club holds feed. Davidson golfers break even with Salisbury. Students urge Dr.
Richards to remain at Davidson. R. O. T. C. unit to be inspected soon. Band completes successful trip.

Commencement Invitations Fraternity Publications 1143 E. FOURTH ST. K. D. WEEKS Fine Printing QUEEN CITY PRINTING CO. Representatives Visiting Cards
Personal and Fraternity Stationery CHARLOTTE, N. C. JOE WADSWORTH
