THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 30, 1935

The Davidsonian
Founded by the Class of 1915

MEMBER
Associated Collegiate Press
1934 1934 Collegiate Digest 1935

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Printed by the QUEEN CITY PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate year.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879.

ARTICLES FOR PUBLICATION must be in the hands of Managing Editors by 4:00 o'clock p.m., Monday. Letters to the Editor
are welcome but all communications intended for publication must be signed.

K. D. WEEKS ... Editor
J. A. C. WADSWORTH ... Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
Martin Barnett ... Editor
Paul Haran ... Editor
Tom Marchant ... Managing Editor
John Walker ... Managing Editor
Harvey Glass ... Managing Editor
Lamont Brown ... Associate Editor
Enip Bowers ... Associate Editor
Carlyle Lewis ... Associate Editor
Scotty McLron ... Associate Editor
G. L. Guietre ... Associate Editor
E. F. McPharn ... Associate Editor
B. L. Rose ... Associate Editor
Jack Hellinger ... Sports Editor
P. Regey ... Exchange Editor
Feature Editor ... Feature Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
J. B. Gosten ... Asst. Business Mgr.
Vat Cassels ... Asst. Business Mgr.
Tom Ross ... Asst. Business Mgr.
JicSi McMullen ... Asst. Business Mgr.
R. P. Morrow ... Asst. Business Mgr.

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 30, 1935

The learning and knowledge that we have, is, at the most, but little compared with that of which we are
ignorant.

PARAGRAPHICS

Everybody is glad those dreaded exams are over. One good thing about them—they bring to a close and put behind
us all the worries and troubles of the first semester, offering a clean slate for the second term’s work.

Seniors were allowed to enjoy their “privilege” during the recent examination period—that of not having to attend chapel. This privilege
arouses a great incentive to become a Senior.

The vice-presidents of the student body performed their one and only duty of conducting chapel in the absence of the
president during exam period. It wouldn't be a bad idea to use them more, relieving the president except on important
occasions and at the same time giving the subordinate officers something to do.

The disconnection of the fire alarm as a result of the last bit of excitement that took place on the
campus several weeks ago has been a big disappointment for many. However, turning in a false alarm did involve a
certain amount of risk and danger.

The return of Dr. Arbuckle, head of the Chemistry Department, to his classroom duties for the second semester is being
anticipated with a great deal of joy by the student body and especially by those who know him best.

We wish for Dr. J. L. Douglas of the Math Department a speedy recovery from the sickness that has kept
him confined for the past several weeks and are hopeful for his early return to the class.

Opening the Students’ Store for a half-hour after midnight on Sundays is an innovation that has been warmly received by
many students. We are sure that the custom will prove popular and will well repay the store.

ALL PLEASED WITH McEVER’S DECISION

Davidson College athletic officials and students breathed a sigh of relief when it learned of Gene McEver’s decision declining a
coaching position offered him by the University of Tennessee where he used to play football and where he made the
mythical All-American eleven. Had he accepted the offer presented to him it would not have been a big surprise to
anyone here although it would have been a source of sorrow. It would have meant for him the return to
his Alma Mater as a coach, and the University of Tennessee being a much larger school than Davidson no doubt
offered him a very attractive proposition, both of which must have been facts which he seriously considered. However, there were
attractions here that were probably as influential in determining his decision as the above. McEver’s three years here as backfield
coach and assistant to Newton have been successful and quite satisfactory. During this time he has coached a backfield which
this last year developed into one if not the best combination of football backs in the state. In these three
years the Wildcats haven’t been state champions or anything of the sort, but they have been formidable opponents for any
football eleven. McEver has made many friends here and has become very popular among the alumni as well as among
the students. He has had perfect cooperation from the players and at no time has there arisen any friction between
players and coach. We are glad that McEver made the decision that he did and we are happy to know
that the combination of Newton and McEver will be with us for another year at the least.

PAN-HELLENIC COUNCIL DOES SOME EXPLAINING

The Pan-Hellenic Council, realizing the keen disappointment among members of the student body regarding the failure to secure Kay Kayser
and his Orchestra for Mid-Winters, desires to acquaint all with their efforts in attempting the near impossible—that of bringing a
“big time” orchestra to Davidson. Due to the fact that college regulations prohibit dancing on the campus, which in turn
necessitates an additional expenditure of around $150 for the use of the Charlotte Armory, the budget for Mid-Winters this year
was set at the maximum sum of $1200. With these facts before them, the council began work at the beginning
of school and were considerably heartened by the fact that the Davidson Pan-Hellenic Council was accorded membership in a new
movement instigated by several prominent southern schools, whose objective was to bring nationally famous orchestras south on tours at these
schools for the minimum in rates. Through the combined efforts of the several colleges and university members of the conference,
it was arranged that Kay Kayser and his Orchestra leave the Blackhawk Restaurant in the latter part of January and
make an extensive three weeks tour of the south, playing at Georgia Tech, Alabama, Auburn, Tennessee, Sewanee, and Davidson. Although
no contracts had been signed, the Music Corporation of America had inferred that all terms of the Davidson Council were
acceptable and that a contract would be sent immediately. However, in the meantime, Chapin Litten, Secretary-Treasurer of the University German
Club at Chapel Hill, had wired a very attractive offer to the corporation and this being considered the better of
the two, was agreed upon and the contract sent to Chapel Hill, leaving the Davidson Council in a very embarrassing
situation. With Mid-Winters fast approaching and no orchestra having been engaged, the Council contacted a score of other famous orchestras
in a desperate attempt to make Davidson’s Mid-Winter dances this year the best possible. Terms of contract and recommendations were
carefully considered of the following famous bands: Isham Jones, Henry Busse, Bernie Cummins, Enoch Light, Charles Barnett, Herbie Kay, Red
Nichols, Johnny Hamp, Oliver Naylor, Paul Pendarvis, Harold Stern, Earnie Holst, Felix Fernando, George Hall, Tal Henry, Al Kavelin, Anson
Weeks, and Paul Sabin. Seven of these orchestras asked for more than the council could meet, while approximately nine others
were already booked for engagements during the month of February. Of the remaining number, after careful consideration, the Council chose
the best replacement for Kay Kayser that it was possible for them to obtain under the circumstances. Paul Sabin and
his Orchestra, in the opinion of the council, will prove a more than agreeable surprise to the student body. It
has the distinction of being one of the best recommended organizations ever placed before the council for consideration.

—The Pan-Hellenic Council.

THE COLLEGIATE REVIEW

Duke University (Durham, N. C.) owns one of the most complete collections of surveying instruments in the entire South—and the
entire collection is available to all engineering students.

Beauty prize winners are prohibited from teaching school in Turkey.

Only 35 women are students at the present time in universities in Japan.

The State of New York has more colleges than any other State in the Union.

The most popular home study courses taught at Columbia University (New York City) are English courses.

Harvard College during the past year has given financial aids to students totaling $266,920.55.

Exactly 258 colleges and universities in the United States have religious affiliations with the Catholics leading with 75.

The Massachusetts Institute of Technology (Boston, Mass.) school of architecture has the distinction of being the oldest school of architecture
in the United States. It was founded in 1865.

FROM OUR CONTEMPORARIES
By Enip Bowers

Students Fail To Run Car At M. I. T.

When two fraternity brothers at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology decided to run off with a street car as a
part of a fraternity initiation prank, they laid their plans very carefully, but forgot to count on any slip-ups. One
of their classmates pulled the trolley and while the motorman got off to fix it, the students seized the controls
and started over the Harvard bridge. On the car, however, was a former motorman, riding as a passenger. He leaped
to the front of the car, wrested the controls from the boys, and backed up to the panting motorman. The
students were arrested and pleaded guilty to the charge. They were held under a $1,000 bond each to await sentence.

Tulane Unfolds Cortez Document

An interesting slant on law is given in the document written by Hernando Cortez, which is in the possession of
the Middle American Research Department at Tulane University. The manuscript contains the first written laws used on this continent. Cortez
wrote: “A dweller must have in his house a lance, a sword, a shield, a helmet, and defensive armor.” Also,
“Married swains must not take journeys through the Aztec territory unaccompanied by their wives.”

“Mother Of Millions” To Speak For Herself

Dorothy Dix, distinguished newspaper woman and mother of millions through her syndicated column, will open the Georgia Press Institute at
the University in February.

Deacon Talks To Lombardo Brothers

Among the many persons to brave the raging mob at the theatre in Raleigh to hear Guy Lombardo was a
Wake Forest freshman, described by the “Old Black and Gold” as a brassy Greenwood youth who crawled all over the
Sir Walter Raleigh Hotel to get an interview with the Italian jazz hounds. Yet with all his boldness he...Finally succeeded
in meeting the “family,” and know that this act raised the prestige of his Alma Mater a degree.

Colleginia

Exactly 42 per cent of the three Harvard University upper classes are listed as candidates for honors... The oldest university
in South America is the University of San Marcos, in Lima, Peru, founded in 1551... More than one hundred invitations
to attend the first meeting of the year of a “Stutter’s Club” were sent to students known to stutter at
the College of the City of New York. The Pan-Hellenic Association at the University of Arizona has recently made a
rule that first-year women must refuse dates on the grounds that girls just entering college are “not sufficiently mature to
go places at night with men.” Columbia University’s reporters, questioning people on the street, found that five out of six
think that college students are loafers. The sixth spoke only Chinese... A professor at Roanoke College claimed that many of
his students will be as famous as Napoleon at the rate they are going down in history. The University of
Wisconsin has more than 79,000 alumni, with 30,000 living in the state at present... A survey at one college shows
that students who owned cars made higher grades by 25 per cent than those who did not... The University of
Montana has a classroom covering 1,600 acres—the forestry school’s lab in Platte Canyon... If Ballyhoo prints it, it’s indecent; but
if it’s printed in the New Yorker, it’s stark realism... Casa Loma Band holds the record of playing at 70
collegiate affairs in 40 states in three seasons... The original copy of the poems, in the handwriting of the authors,
Samuel T. Coleridge and William Wordsworth and their amanuensis, Dorothy Wordsworth, the poet’s sister, from which the 1800 edition of
“Lyrical Ballads” was published, has been acquired by the Yale Library. Compulsory courses have been dropped from the curriculum of
Vassar College... Cadets at West Point have requested that they be pulled out of bed a half-hour earlier in the
morning in order that they may have more time to study. Mexican parents who send their children to schools teaching
socialism, and teachers in such schools have been threatened with excommunication by Archbishop Pascual Diaz of Mexico... Five or more
generations of American ancestry are one of the requirements for 20 new hundred-dollar scholarships at Colby College in Waterville, Maine...
Emory University is the outgrowth of a Manual Labor school... Jonathan Swift is the originator of the famous Popeye quotation
“I y’am what I y’am.”

Miss Agnes Brown, of Salem College, and Miss Libby Rhett, of Converse, spent a few days with their respective families
here before returning to college for the second semester. Major and Mrs. John Rhett entertained the Thelemite Club at dinner
Friday, January 18. That afternoon, the Book-Lovers Club met with Mrs. C. M. Richards.

COMPASSING
By Scotty McLeod

Weekly pillar this week, as Josephine is clamoring for an answer to her last letter.

Dear Josephine,

The frantic rush of last-minute cramming for exams is all over, and so are the exams, thank Heaven. All here
is dead as usual; and as I have nothing whatsoever to do I have finally got around to writing you.
The semester tests were too much for two of our noted studs: Fred McPhail and Carleton Chapman. They are laid
up at the Mercy and Presbyterian Hospitals in the Queen City. Attendant nurses are all of a flutter in both
institutions. Chapman has had trouble with one of his legs, but is improving with the constant care of his bevy
of humanitarian females.

A number of new studs have joined our happy group of Davidson undergraduates. Tommy Miller returns now as a senior
Beta; Coky Branton has transferred from Tennessee to join up with his old Phi Gam pals; and George Hornbeck and
Felix Gee swell the ranks of the Junior class. All these are old Davidsonians and are being welcomed back. I
think you met Coky at Homecoming this year.

A big crowd turned out Monday night to view some pictures taken by a Dr. Roth on his Alaskan trip.
The pictures were in full color and many were interested, although Goof Warren and Tom Breeden were caught napping several
times.

Witness amusing incident no. two: Walter Sprunt, (you remember the Wilmington flash) was trying to help psychology prof. Hood push
his car off when Dr. Sentelle, dean, nobly offered his assistance; as these two were having some trouble, Prof. Lilly
gallantly rushed to the rescue and the three finally succeeded in getting the car underway through valiant manual efforts. Scene
was seen by Eddie Weeks.

Kate Smith is on the radio tonight, which reminds me that it is almost hog-killing time up in the mountains
of Brevard. Being champion hog-caller of the county, I guess I'll have to go home this weekend and again exhibit
my powers.

A number of the locals have taken great interest in the Charlotte pro wrestling matches which come off about twice
a week. Midget Verble went over Monday night.

Somebody told us about seeing some of your friends up in Mooresville Saturday night. I think Barney Hand, Jim Morgan,
and Bill (Blue Boy) Brewer were along on a post-exam study tour. I saw Walter Dickson, Jim Hodgin, Tom Downie,
John Sadler, and Billy Archer in Salisbury the same eve. All were congregated at Tillie Jones’ house for a lively
party of cross-word puzzling etcetera. Jule West and a pal were seen in Charlotte two weeks ago and he sends
his regards to you and the family.

Harpo Harlan is now avoiding the S & W after several Saturdays ago when he was rocked. His old woman,
Bob Smith, is currently spending his time in intense activity, admiring the lovely female sponsors which will grace the pages
of our forthcoming Quips and Cranks. Howard Dyer and Coky Branton were up in Virginia the other day and masqueraded
at the famous W & L, Fancy Dress, from whence Isham Jones issued a pleasing broadcast for the benefit of
us poor shut-ins.

No more news at present. With more love than Guerrant has for his Asheville flame,

Yours,
Butch.

We haven't got time to write the old

The OPEN FORUM
Letters To The Editor

(Note: “The Davidsonian” does not necessarily endorse or accept any opinions expressed in this column.)

Signal Mountain, Tenn.
December 9, 1934.

Dear Editor:

A friend has sent me a copy of your splendid college paper, The Davidsonian and an account of the movement
of The Student Policies Union.

I was deeply interested in Mrs. Richardson’s letter in The Forum; were it at Center College, I’d fight with the
boys for this privilege, but I am rather timid towards a college so remote. However, let me ask that you
present this thought to those who are interested in controversy.

For twenty-one years we have lived opposite the buildings of a large state university. I have seen this institution grow
from three hundred to nearly three thousand students. On Thanksgiving day and at Christmas, when at home, we have always
drawn our dinner guests from among the Presbyterian boys on the campus. I have always felt it a very great
tragedy that Presbyterian parents and our church colleges could not more nearly get together to protect the boys of our
church from the atmosphere of our big state institutions—at least through the first two years of college. Because of the
great number of Freshmen, they are left largely to their own ability to make the grade, without much interest and
with little assistance from members of the faculty or upper classmen. Too often might is a leading force, overriding character.
I often wonder that these men finish college with any remnant of home training left.

Again and again I have said to Presbyterian boys, “Why are you here? Why are you not in one of
our church's splendid schools?” Always the reply would be about this, “Mrs. Guy, they are so dead—a fellow’d just die
there; nothing to do but study; can’t even dance without going off campus. Dad and Mother let us have parties
at home or in a club house with Mother and Dad on hand, or if in a college, with the
college faculty as substitutes for Mother and Dad, and the college as a Home, the place where every condition will
be known to be clean and wholesome.”

We Presbyterians are so “set in our ways,” but our ministers no longer preach two hours. We no longer use
the communion token. So we can change. Everything under the sun does change, rivers, hills, oceans, even Niagara is having
a face lifting at this time—so why can’t our Presbyterian colleges brighten up their regulations, so that more of our
youth may be drawn under their protection to live by, and learn to love, the traditions and culture found only
in church schools?

I have known Davidson men who drank—yes—and who could curse and gamble. Rules do not protect! Dancing can be vile,
of course—(we would not enjoy hearing Hitler preach, would we?) Dancing can be made a legitimate pleasure—if under the rules
of conduct required by a conservative society—with said rules enforced. If we do not give our youth legitimate pleasure, they
will seek illegitimate pleasure. We today have more dangerous pleasures to avoid and to consider than the dance.

I'll do most anything to keep my boy from a state institution until after he has his A.B. I feel
that it is a serious thing for our church not to more often and with more earnestness ask for its
own children to be educated in its own schools. Let’s get rid of the name of Prison by being more
anxious even than we have been, and show it by keeping dances, etc., on the campus—make it a College Home!

Faithfully yours,
Georgia MacMillan Guy.

(Eds. note: The daughter of a Presbyterian, Mrs. Guy has long been a leader in the church and civic activities
of her community.)

STATIONERY
CALLING CARDS
Fine Printing
QUEEN CITY PRINTING CO.
Printers of THE DAVIDSONIAN, and of the DAVIDSON COLLEGE ALUMNI JOURNAL
PROGRAMS
1143 E. FOURTH ST.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
