PHI BETA KAPPA AND O.D.K. ELECT MEN THIS MORNING

The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

REV. MR. MARSHALL RETURNS TO CAMPUS FOR FALL SERVICES

VOL. CI

THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 23, 1935

NUMBER 4

O. D. K. Extends Bids To Seven Campus Leaders

MARSHALL WILL BEGIN SERVICES TUESDAY

Services Will Run From October Twenty-Ninth to November First

MARSHALL NATIVE SCOT

Popular Speaker Will Hold Two Services Daily

Rev. Peter Marshall, of Atlanta, Georgia, will conduct the annual fall Vesper services to be held here during the week
of Oct. 29. These services will begin on Tuesday, the twenty-ninth and extend through Thursday of that week. The meetings
are not being held, as has been customary, from Sunday through Wednesday, due to Marshall’s inability to leave his church
at such time. During three days, Rev. Marshall will conduct the regular morning chapel services and special meetings held at
seven P.M., the usual Vesper hour. If there are any individual problems to be brought to Mr. Marshall, special appointments
may be arranged with Albert McClure. There is a possibility that fireside discussion groups will be held at the “Y”
after the Vesper services, but no definite plans have been made to date.

Peter Marshall, a native Scot, graduated from the University of Glasgow, Scotland, and came to this country about eleven years
ago. After studying at Columbia Seminary, in Decatur, Ga., Marshall was called to his first pastorate in Covington, Ga. At
the present time, he is pastor of Westminster Presbyterian Church, in Atlanta. At his church, the members of the congregation
find it almost impossible to obtain a seat without arriving a half-hour early. This past summer, Rev. Marshall spent nine
weeks in Scotland, his native country. This fall, Marshall is conducting three other groups of fall Vesper services similar to
this one.

Vocational Interests Indicated By Freshmen

A meeting of the Freshman class, conducted by Dr. P. H. Gwynn, Sr., was held Friday morning, October 18, in
Chemvert Auditorium directly after Chapel. Dr. Gwynn handed out information blanks as an aid in vocational guidance. These blanks were
to be filled out and returned and were to serve as a guide to the Faculty Advisor in aiding Freshmen
to select their vocation. Dr. Gwynn reminded them that this was a real problem and that it would require care
and patience in the selection of a vocation.

HOMECOMING GRADS WILL ENJOY MUSIC OF J. POYNER BAND

The Pan-Hellenic Council is sponsoring a set of Homecoming Dances to be held on the eighth and ninth of November,
at the Charlotte Hotel in Charlotte. The music will be furnished by Jimmy Poyner and his band, who played at
Virginia and Myrtle beaches this summer. This orchestra played last year at the Davidson Bowery Ball. Three new men have
been added to the orchestra and Key Giles will be the featured vocalist. The set will consist of a Friday
night formal dance held in the ballroom of the Hotel Charlotte and will last from ten until two. Due to
the fact that there will be a football game on Saturday afternoon, there will be no tea dance. The Saturday
night dance will be informal and will be held from nine o'clock until twelve, in the main dining room of
the Hotel Charlotte. As usual, there will be four no-breaks at each dance.

COUNCIL ELECTS NEW OFFICERS

Honorary Fraternity Council Adopts a Constitution At First Meeting

The Honorary Fraternity Council met last Friday, October 18, in Chambers Building to consider the organization and beginning of their
plans for this year. Previous Councils have not had a constitution so the adoption of a set of by-laws during
the session was welcomed as an important step forward. Two seniors, A. A. Kuhn and Harvey Glass, were elected vice-president
and secretary respectively of the Council at the meeting. They were chosen from the group of men representing every honorary
fraternity on the Hill. The by-laws were drawn up by Carleton Chapman, Harvey Ross, and Al Kuhn previously. In accepting
them, the Council felt that its control would be extended to the benefit of the various fraternities affected. The tendency
in past years has been for some of the groups to become inactive, and the Council is endeavoring to help
the situation with the by-laws that are printed below.

Honorary Fraternity Council By-laws

ARTICLE I

The Honorary Fraternity Council shall be made up of one (1) member from each honorary fraternity represented on the Davidson
College campus, by an ac- (Continued on page 6)

Three Davidson Men Attend Press Ekklesia At Chicago

Lamont Brown, Mal Grimes, and Prosser Morrow Travel to Windy City

Lamont Brown, Mal Grimes, and Prosser Morrow represented the Davidson College Publications at the Fourteenth Annual Meeting of The Associated
Collegiate Press in the Medinah Club, Chicago, Illinois, on October 17, 18, and 19. They left Wednesday afternoon by train
and arrived at Chicago the next afternoon. Immediately upon arriving they went to the Medinah Club where they registered. That
afternoon they were taken through the Chicago Daily Tribune office. That evening at seven fifteen o'clock they attended the Opening
Convocation conducted by Sterling North, literary critic, Chicago Daily News, whose subject was: “What the Young Writer Must Face.” The
meeting was presided over by Mr. Fred L. Kildow and held in the Celtic Grill. At eight-thirty the convention had
reserved seats for the broadcast of Horace Heidt and His Alemite Brigadiers, over the Columbia Broadcasting System. The next afternoon
they attended an address by Grant Olson, advertising manager of the Sheaffer Pen Company, whose address was on “Thoroughness in
Editing and Publishing.” This was held in the Grand Ball Room of the Medinah Club at 1:30 with Mr. Frederick
J. Noer presiding. They obtained many useful and practical hints from his talk. At three o'clock Lamont Brown attended an
Editorial Roundtable conducted by Curtis D. MacDougall, Editor of the Evanston News-Index, and lecturer in journalism at Northwestern, who talked
on “Columning for the College Newspaper.” At four o'clock Lamont Brown attended an address on “Modern Typography and Make-up for
the College Newspaper,” by

Phi Beta Kappa, Scholastic Fraternity, Issues Bids To Students This Week

Hassell, Barnett, Walker, Ross, Chapman, Toole, Smith, Bulwinkle Chosen

HASSELL RANKS FIRST

Barnett Follows With Only Other Summa Cum Laude

The following eight members of the Senior class have been issued informal bids for Phi Beta Kappa, national scholarship fraternity,
by the Gamma chapter: J. W. Hassell; M. J. Barnett; J. M. Walker; J. H. Ross; G. B. Chapman; I.
M. Toole; C. G. Smith; and A. L. Bulwinkle. Hassell leads the group with a scholastic rating of 3.308. The
averages for the remaining are: Barnett 3.081; Walker, 2.998; Ross, 2.915; Chapman, 2.880; Toole, 2.843; Smith, 2.780; Bulwinkle, 2.705. From
3 to 3.5 is interpreted as Summa cum Laude, from 2.5 to 2.99, Cum Laude. The qualifications for Phi Beta
Kappa are two-fold. First, the students must have the three-year highest averages in the Senior class; second, they must be
of good moral character. Phi Beta Kappa is the oldest and largest of honorary Greek letter fraternities in America. Founded
at William and Mary College, Virginia, in 1776, it had established chapters at Yale, Harvard, and Dartmouth by the end
of the century. Many chapters have been added since then, and there are now over 100 chapters in the United
States and Canada, and its enrollment has grown to 60,000 members. It started as a social fraternity and developed into
an honorary society as a reward for excellence in scholarship. Its motto is “Philosophy, the Guide of Life.”

J. W. Hassell, of McAllen, Texas, is a cadet captain in the local R.O.T.C. unit and a member of Scabbard
and Blade, honorary military fraternity. He is also secretary of Le Cercle Francais. M. J. Barnett, of Meridian, Miss., a
member of Sigma Phi Epsilon, social fraternity, is Quips and Cranks editor and president of the Publications Board. He also
belongs to Omicron Delta Kappa. (Continued on Page 6)

Yow! To Make Debut On First

Students Warned To Stay Away From Post Office Boxes

The College humor magazine will make its debut this year on the first of November. The first issue will concern
itself with the lowly Freshman; and the features will depict various aspects of the life of the unhappy Frosh. The
artistic decorations of the “Yowl” will be made under the watchful eye of “Hal” Overton, art editor of the publication
this year. The “Tunes” section will be the work of R. B. “Dick” Vowles and his staff. Editor Downie was
very emphatic in repeating the desire of the staff to have all freshmen who are in the least interested in
coming out for the “Yowl” to do so immediately. There is an opportunity for anyone who will come and try.
More issues this year is the aim of Editor Downie and his staff. It was announced that the second issue
would probably come out just before the ChristmasHolidays, and that after the holidays an attempt would be made to bring
forth the magazine more frequently than has been the custom in the past. Downie stated that in order to do
this it will be necessary to secure a stronger support than ever before. An effort will be made to combine
the literary with the humorous in the Yowl this year. The staff in following this idea will print essays and
articles contributed by the student body as a whole. In doing this the staff will be trying to put the
“Yowl” on the same plane as any other collegiate magazine in the country. (Continued on page 6)

KRYL'S FAMOUS BAND WILL GIVE CONCERT OCT. 28
Noted Director and His Symphonic Band Will Include Davidson In Tour
SOLOISTS ON PROGRAM
Mesdames Kryl-White, Kinard to Feature Performance

Bohumir Kryl and his famous Symphony Band will appear at Davidson College on Monday, October 28, in the first concert
of the 1935-36 concert series. “Kryl and his band have a unique reputation throughout the country. No organization has a
higher reputation for the rendition of the great standards in music, and the name of Kryl has come to be
synonymous with the best there is in the domain of high art,” indicate his press notices. The program of the
concert which they will play at Davidson is as follows: Overture to the opera “Bartered Bride,” by Smetana; Harp Solo,
“La Danse des Sylphes,” by Godefroid; Symphony in E Minor, No. 5, the New World, Largo and Scherzo movements, by
Dvorak; Aria for Soprano, “Voi lo sapete” from “Cavalleria Rusticana,” by Mascagni; Capriccio Espagnol, by Rimsky-Korsakov; Cornet Solo, “Carnival of
Venice,” played by Kryl; Symphonic Suite, “Scheherazade,” by Rimsky-Korsakov; Concerto for Violin in D Minor, by Wieniawski; and the Second
Hungarian Rhapsody, by Liszt. In addition to these, the Davidson College band will play one number, and Mr. James C.
Pfohl, director of Music at Davidson, will direct the Kryl Band in one of their numbers. With him Kryl will
have as soloists, Mrs. Josephine Kryl-White, Violin, Miss Nell Kinard, Soprano, and Miss Ruth Templeman, Harp. Kryl himself will render
one cornet solo. Kryl has been received with great acclaim in Cincinnati, Philadelphia, Los Angeles, Chicago, New York, Washington, and
many other cities in the United States. The New York Times said, “Kryl is a complete master of the difficult
cornet. His band resembles a fine instrument.”

Debating Tryouts Set November 15th
Question to Involve Proposed Change In Superiority Of Supreme Court

Debating tryouts have been announced for November 15 to be held in Chambers Auditorium. The query for the tryouts this
year is: Resolved: “Congress should be permitted by a two-thirds majority to vote to override a five-four decision of the
Supreme Court which declares a law unconstitutional.” Dr. C. K. Brown, head of the faculty committee on debating, will direct
the coaching, as usual. Probable plans indicate there will be three trips, a northern, a southern, and a western. On
each of these trips there will be five debates. Some of the colleges that will probably appear on the schedule
are: College of Charleston, Miami University, Emory University, Georgia Tech, Southwestern, Sewanee, Centre, University of Kentucky, Washington and Jefferson, Bucknell,
Rutgers, and Middlebury. All of these schools were on last year’s schedule. Three members of the team last year and
two of the alternates will again take part in the tryouts. These men are: Wilbur Edwards, alternate; Paul Harlan, alternate;
Tyler Port, James Selango, and Harold Sugg. In addition to these, a large number of other men have indicated their
intentions of trying out for the team. (Continued on Page 3)

PROMINENT SPEAKER
—Courtesy Arthur Studios, Inc.
Dr. Gregory Walcott, Professor of Philosophy at Long Island University, will lecture in Chambers Auditorium on Friday evening, November 1,
at 7:30 P.M. He will use as his subject, “Philosophy and Common Sense.”

Professor At Long Island University Will Lecture on Philosophy

Dr. Gregory Dexter Walcott, Professor of Philosophy at Long Island University, will give a popular lecture on “Philosophy and Common
Sense,” in Chambers Auditorium on Friday evening, November 1, at 7:30 P.M. He comes under the auspices of the Davidson
College Committee on Lectures. Dr. Walcott, a graduate of Brown and Columbia Universities, was born in Lincoln, Rhode Island, in
1899. He attended Brown and Columbia Universities, where he received three degrees, and from Union Theological Seminary in New York
City, a B.D. After studying abroad, Dr. Walcott returned to Saylesville, Rhode Island, in 1901, where he was acting minister
of a church there for two years. He has been Professor of Philosophy at Long Island University since 1929. Dr.
Walcott has written many interesting and informative books, among which are “An Elementary Logic,” and “Davidson Well Represented In Rhodes
Scholarship Trial.”

Barnett, Branton, Chapman, Emurian, Hassell, Ross, Thompson Are Accepted

M. J. Barnett, W. C. Branton, C. B. Chapman, E. K. Emurian, J. W. Hassell, J. H. Ross, and W.
M. Thompson have had their applications for Rhodes scholarships accepted by the Rhodes Scholarship Committee and Executive Committee of Davidson
College, and will appear before the State Committee in the near future. These scholarships carry 400 Pounds per year for
two years at the University of Oxford. M. J. Barnett and W. C. Branton, both seniors at Davidson now, have
applied from the state of Mississippi, in which they reside. Carleton B. Chapman, a senior at Davidson, has applied in
his home state, Alabama. Those applying from North Carolina are seniors at Davidson. Ross and Thompson graduated from Davidson in
1934 and are now on the faculty of Episcopal High School, Alexandria, Va. Ross and Hassell are both seniors at
Davidson this year. E. K. Emurian, who graduated from Davidson in 1931, is applying from Virginia, where he is now
an instructor in a CCC camp. These applicants will meet the state committees from the various states named. The state
committee, which will interview candidates applying in its state, will select two of them to appear before the district committee,
which will select the four men from its district to receive the scholarships. The stipend of a Rhodes scholarship is
400 Pounds a year for two years at the University of Oxford in England. The Rhodes Scholar must be prepared
to supplement this with about 50 pounds from his own funds. (Continued on Page 6)

SIX SENIORS AND ONE POST GRADUATE TAPPED TODAY
Branton, Griffin, Harlan, Marsh, Morrow, Purnell, and Cunningham Pledged
CHAPMAN PRESIDES
Increases Active Membership To Fourteen

The fall tapping of Omicron Delta Kappa was held this morning at which six seniors and one post-graduate student were
issued bids. Those receiving this honor were: D. B. Branton, Greenville, Miss.; D. B. Griffin, Macon, Miss.; P. Harlan, Jackson;
Marsh, Norfolk, Va.; R. P. Morrow, Jr., West Point, Ga.; L. T. Purnell, Spartanburg, S. C.; and A. M. Cunningham,
New London, Conn. After a short devotional program conducted by A. B. Chapman, president of the local circle of ODK,
Chapman, who presided at the morning exercises, called on Professor Bailey, who spoke on the purpose and aims of the
national honorary leadership fraternity. During the program all faculty members of the organization and the active student members were seated
on the rostrum. At each tap of the gavel by the presiding officer, one student would go from the platform
into the audience and slap on the back one of the men whom the society wished to pledge. The tapped
man would then signify his acceptance by following back to the rostrum the member by whom he had been notified
of his bid. When the new pledge arrived upon the platform he received a blue and white ribbon bow as
a token of his pledge, and he was also given a paper containing the pledge of acceptance which he is
expected to sign. At the first tap of the gavel this morning Henry Cathey, student member, went down to one
of the front rows of the senior section in the auditorium and gave (Continued on Page 3)

Collegiate Digest To Start Photo Contest

Amateur photographers of Davidson College are being offered the professional news photographer's rates of $3 for every photo which they
submit and are accepted for publication in Collegiate Digest, it was announced by the editors of that publication today. Photos
of news interest to college students throughout the nation are eligible for this new Collegiate Digest photograph contest. Send your
photographs now to the Photo Contest Editor, Collegiate Digest, P. O. Box 472, Madison, Wis. Any size of photo is
eligible in the contest, but all pictures must be gloss prints.
