THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 13, 1935

UNION SEMINARY PRESENTS AWARD

Five Men, Including Two Davidson Graduates, Are Given Fellowships By Duncan MacBrypr

Announcement of the selection of five men to hold the 1935-1936 fellowships, annually awarded by Union Theological Seminary, was made
this morning during the seminary chapel exercises by Dr. Edward Mack, dean of the graduate department. The Moses D. Hoge
Fellowship, the oldest of the five, was awarded to Carl Ruffin Pritchett. James A. Millard will hold the Charles D.
Larus Fellowship; James Randolph Bullock will hold the Salem Fellowship; John Henry McKinnon, Jr., will hold the Walter W. Moore
Fellowship, and the Thomas Cary Johnston Fellowship will go to Athol D. Cloud.

Carl R. Pritchett, of Reidsville, N. C., and a member of the First Presbyterian Church of that city, in Orange
Presbytery, received his A.B. from Davidson College in 1930, and after graduation remained at the college for two years as
executive secretary of the Y. M. C. A. President of the sophomore class, Pritchett was later elected president of the
Student Body; a member of Omicron Delta Kappa, national leadership fraternity; stellar player and captain of varsity basketball; varsity debater,
student councilman; vice-president and secretary-treasurer of the Athletic Association; and member of Alpha Phi Epsilon, forensic fraternity. Between his years
at Union Theological Seminary, Mr. Pritchett has done home mission work in and near Petersburg, Va., and has served as
assistant pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Spartanburg, S. C. During his fellowship period, he plans to study at
Union Seminary.

James R. Bullock, of Sherman, Texas, Dallas Presbytery, and member of the First Presbyterian Church, McKinney, Texas, graduated as first
honor man at Austin College, Texas. At Austin College he was also outstanding as director of the Dramatics Society, head
of the Ministerial Association, a member of the Y Cabinet, the Austin College newspaper staff, the glee club, and orchestra.
At Union Seminary he has held a Litta Scholarship for three years, and worked as assistant to the librarian, and
during the past summers he has supplied pulpits in Texas, served as councilor in Boys’ Camp Work, and last summer
was supply pastor of Palma Ceia Presbyterian Church, Tampa, Florida. Mr. Bullock will go for his fellowship year to Edinburgh
University, Scotland.

Mr. John Henry McKinnon, Jr., Walter W. Moore fellow-elect, from Jacksonville, Florida, a member of the First Presbyterian Church of
that city, came to Union Seminary as a graduate of Davidson College, N. C. During his college career he was
made a member of Omicron Delta Kappa, was elected president of his senior class; belonged to the Honorary Fraternity Council,
the International Relations Club, Scabbard and Blade, and Eta Sigma Phi; and served on the Y. M. C. A. Board
of Control, the Student Council, and the North Carolina Federation of Students. He was also prominent as a varsity debater,
and varsity track and football man. He was a member of the social fraternity, Sigma Alpha Epsilon. Upon coming to
Union Seminary, he was awarded a Latta Scholarship, which he has held for three years, serving as manager of the
refectory. At present he is president of the seminary student body.

MILLARD FROM RICHMOND

James A. Millard is from Richmond, and a member of the Ginter Park Presbyterian Church. Attending Hampden-Sydney College, Mr. Millard
graduated with third honors in his class, and was prominent on the Hampden-Sydney campus as president of the Student Christian
Association. Awarded a scholarship from John Marshall High School, he was enabled to pursue his college course at Hampden-Sydney, where,
in turn, he was awarded the Percy Echols Fellowship. Having engaged in home missions work for some time, Mr. Millard
last summer served as assistant pastor at the First Presbyterian Church of Staunton, Va. At Union Seminary he has served,
among other capacities, as Director of Intellectual Life, and library assistant. For his graduate fellowship he will study at Union
Seminary.

CLOUD OF ARKANSAS

Athol D. Cloud, Thomas Cary Johnston fellow-elect, will study at Union Seminary, and assist in the Department of Theology. Coming
from El Dorado, Ark., and an honor graduate of both El Dorado High School and Arkansas College, Mr. Cloud has
done home missions work in Buchanan County, Virginia; served as supply pastor at Mount Holly Presbyterian Church, Mt. Holly, Ark.,
and student pastor at Roseneath Presbyterian Church in Richmond.

There’s nothing friendly about the sharp, bitter sting of unripe top tobacco leaves. There’s nothing friendly about the grimy, flavorless
bottom leaves. But there’s a wealth of friendliness, of mildness in the rich, mellow-ripe center leaves. And I am made
of these fragrant, expensive center leaves, only. I’ll never irritate your throat. I’ll let you down. I’m your best friend.
I am your Lucky Strike.

French Club Gives Play At Winthrop

Le Cercle Francais Will Present “Le Medecin Malgre Lui” On Wednesday Evening

Seventeen members of Cercle Francais, honorary French club, left this afternoon for Rock Hill, where Moliere’s three-act comedy, Le Medecin
Malgré Lui, will be played. The party left at 4 o'clock and will be entertained at dinner by the Winthrop
College French Club. At 7:30, in Johnson Hall Auditorium, the Winthrop group will present a short comedy and musical numbers.Prior
to the presentation of the play by the Davidson club, the leading role of this play will be played by
Woodrow Hassel as Sganarelle. He will be supported by the following cast: Martine, wife of Sganarelle—Harvey Glass; Valere—Jim Cothran; Lucas—Carlyle
Lewis; Robert—John McMullen; Geroute, father of the patient—Tom Wood; Lucinde—Jimmie Simpson; Leandre, lover of Lucinde—Bob Coit; Thibaut—Bill Pearce; Perrin—Val Cassels.
The players will be accompanied by other members of the club and by Dr. Watts and Prof. Bailey, who have
drilled the cast. Mrs. Watts will be in charge of costumes. It is expected that the Winthrop club will return
the visit later in the year. Arrangements have been completed with the College French Club for a presentation of Le
Medecin Malgré Lui in Spartanburg during the second week of April. At that time the Converse girls will present a
dramatization of the medieval favorite, Cuicassin et Nicolette. A return engagement will be given a few days later in the
Chambers Auditorium. Twenty Converse girls will be guests of the Davidson club at that time. Le Cercle Francais presents at
least one French play every year here at Davidson and at other colleges, which is attended by students in the
French department and members of the faculty. Acting in a French play has been found to be an excellent method
of instruction.

Copyright 1935, The American Tobacco Company.

Banquets and Parties Served

Junior History (Continued from Page 3)

In the publication spotlight, the Davidsonian offers a choice between six juniors for future editor. They are: Martin Barnett, Lamont
Brown, Harvey Glass, Paul Harlan, Tom Marchant, and John Walker. The Chief Tom Cat of The Yowl, college humor, will
be one of the Funny Felines, Treadway Purnell or Tom Downey or Scotty McLeod. Quips and Cranks’ new editor is
to be elected from the group of junior managers. Bill Bowman, president of the three-year men, failed to return to
college and his position was capably refilled by Cole Windham. Earle Frazier was elected vice-president of the junior class, with
Lamont Brown serving as secretary-treasurer. Bob Richardson, elected vice-president of the student body, also failed to resume his duties at
Davidson and Harvey Glass was appointed to this office. “Flip” Cathey was elected to take the second vice-presidency upon the
promotion of Glass. Student Council members, chosen by vote of the “Jolly” Juniors, are Glass, Bowman, Bob Lindsay, and John
Partridge. The class officers of the preceding year consisted of Richardson, president; Cokey Branton, vice-president; R. H. Evans, secretary-treasurer, and
Mills Taylor, historian.

Junior Speaking—Bill Allsbrook is just around the corner! We enthusiastically await a cozy weekend, cuddling to the music of Bill
and his band. Junior Speaking featuring “Beauty Contest” ballot.

Frazier Runs His Best at Carolina (Continued from Page 4)

for the finals of the high hurdles but decided not to run because of an injury which he received in
football last fall and hurt again in the preliminaries. He was scratched on all of the remaining events that he
had entered. The conference division was won by the University of North Carolina for the second consecutive year. William and
Mary won the non-conference division and Georgetown won the freshman division. There was an estimated crowd of 2,500 people who
had jammed the Tin Can, Carolina's giant gymnasium, to see the meet. The list of entries was close to three
hundred and fifty athletes. There were four divisions, namely, the conference, the freshman, the non-conference, and the scholastic. Besides the
new record set by Frazier, there were nine other records broken in all of the divisions. Hubbard of U.N.C. set
a new record in the broad jump; Williamson of U.N.C. set two new records, one in the mile run and
one in the 880-yard run; Evans of Maryland set a new record in the 440-yard run; Dunaj of Washington and
Lee set a new record in the two-mile run; Little of William and Mary made a new mark in the
60-yard dash, and Georgetown made a new relay mark in the freshman division. Each of these records pertained to the
respective division in which they were made.

NO SHORT-CUTS IN HANES SHORTS!

HANES cuts their shorts to the size the label says. They’re big enough to let you bend and reach without
any gripping or ripping!

POPULAR PRICES LONG WEAR SERVICE

HANES Shirts, Shorts, Union-Suits for Men and Boys

P. H. HANES KNITTING COMPANY WINSTON-SALEM

White Drug Co. The store for the college man. We have a complete line of everything you need—Make our store
your store. Our Courtesy and Service Speaks for Itself.

Winthrop To Entertain Next I.R.C. Conference

The International Relations Club Conference will be held next year at Winthrop College in Rock Hill, S.C. The definite date
for the conference has not been set as yet, but it will probably meet in February, as was the case
this year. The conference was held this February at Davidson College on 21, 22, 23. There were 175 delegates here,
representing 65 schools.

CORRECT... Every haircut that we do is done with a great deal of interest because doing a thing right is
our greatest advertisement.

NORTON’S BARBER SHOP
