THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 2, 1935

“Pete” Whittle

HONOR ROLL
Carlyle Lewis and Ken Knorr chosen this week by Sports Afield

HONOR ROLL
Paul Pittman, “Six” Johnston, and Frank Purdy picked by Harvey Glass

By HARRY KUYKENDALL

“No Davidson team has ever been annihilated.” “North Carolina State’s Wolfpack had no soft touch in Davidson's Wildcats.” The above quotations, selected from the South's leading papers, seem to express everyone's sentiments about the State game. Any team as light as Davidson's, in which each man was outweighed more than 13 pounds, deserves “a big hand” for the way in which it withstood State's terrific battering arms. Everyone speaks humorously of “moral victories” but Saturday’s game does indicate that Davidson College places this fall.

Paul Pittman, “man of the hour” in Saturday's big five encounter, in our estimation, was the Barium Springs triple threat back. He did all of Davidson's punting and passing, and gained 48 out of the 53 yards that Davidson gained from scrimmage. “Pitt” threw the pass that scored for the ‘Cats and his punting staved off many an attack into Davidson territory. Yarborough and Armfield also turned in good reports, with the latter pocketing one of the many passes thrown by “Pitt” to gallop over the last chalk line for a score. Fred Dennis played nicely for the defense.

By far the most meritorious individual outside of “Pitt” for Davidson, we think, was Frank Purdy, 150-pound reserve center for the ‘Cats, who withstood all the huff and puff the Wolves could administer. Frank spilled the State stars all over their own backfield before they could get away. The former Barium Springs All-state center recovered a fumble that led to Davidson's touchdown.

Johnston, despite having a case of flu, entered the game and occasioned favorable comment for his splendid work at lugging in that “thin red line.” Davidson will have several reasons for wanting to win over the Virginia Cavaliers when the two teams meet Saturday in Charlottesville. It has never defeated Virginia; its former athletic director now holds a similar position there, and Hampton-Sydney, also a Presbyterian school, won over the University last Saturday. Sports commentators are giving the ‘Cats an even chance to win.

Only five other states besides North Carolina are represented on the Davidson squad. Just for fun—compare that with some other team in this state. The big knock-em-down and drag-em-off intramural football league is in our midst again and with 13 teams composed of unheralded Red Granges and Johnny Mackorells, “Pete” Whittle’s popular fall campaigns should prove as thrilling as previous shows. The Seniors and Sophs were engaged in a torrid contest Monday: a game which featured frequent verbal battles besides the play of innumerable triple threats. Partridge, Bell, Loftin, and Lewis comprised the brunt of the Seniors' attack, while Cline, Gilks, Fort, and Ganier led some very nice running plays which offset, to some extent, the Sophs’ comparatively weak pass attacks. The Juniors have what appears to be an up-and-coming eleven, bowling over the frosh easily and displaying enough power to argue well for their future success. Ken Knorr, captain, has already admitted that the Centennials are merely biding their time for the trophy. “Moky” Faison, who returned this semester after a year’s absence from (Continued on Page 6)

Young, and Norton, Pritchett, Athletic Director of Virginia, Formerly With Davidson

VIRGINIANS ARE HEAVY
Davidson Greatly Improved After First Two Games

Next Saturday afternoon, the much improved Davidson Wildcats, with two contests under their belts, will clash with the University of Virginia Cavaliers. The game is due to be a very closely contested one with the experts’ opinion trailing along slightly on the heavier Cavalier side. The contest is due to be a very interesting one for several reasons. It brings together the nation's two distinctly “Amateur” teams. And, the game was scheduled by the University of Virginia's athletic director, Capt. Norton G. Pritchett, who held the same position at Davidson last year.

The Wildcat-Cavalier rivalry dates back to 1902. In the first game, the Cavaliers swamped the “Cats to the tune of a 34-0 victory over the Presbyterians. This annual rivalry was continued with spasmodic regularity until 1921. The ‘Cats have improved greatly since the last contest with the Cavaliers, more than a decade ago. The ‘Cats are hard at practice, aiming at a victory to mark the renewal of a long and colorful rivalry. Saturday's game will decide the “amateur” championship of the South. The Wildcats will be trying to bring up the count to two victories to the one defeat that they suffered at the hands of the heavy N. C. State team last Saturday night at Greensboro.

This year, the Virginians have a very heavy team and one that blackens the air with very effective pass-work. The backfield, a very experienced one, is composed almost entirely of Juniors and Seniors.

Promise Shown By Track Candidates

“The boys have been working since school started, whipping themselves into shape for the Sigma Delta Psi qualifications,” says “Pete” Whittle, fall track coach. The freshmen have been showing up especially well in their preparations for the annual cake-race to be held October 1, and in the Sigma Delta Psi tryouts. Notable among the Freshmen candidates are Jack Walker, Bill Hickman, Dave Woodward, and Bill Telford. Many varsity men are working for the Decathlon, which will be held immediately after the qualifications for Sigma Delta Psi are completed, probably in two or three weeks.

The Freshmen have been exhibiting a greater interest in the cake-race than ever before, which has been in evidence by their work-outs every afternoon. The purpose of this event is to discover track material among the first-year men, especially cross-country runners. Interest in track has been stimulated by the large amount of publicity that this phase of athletics has been given, and many good men are on hand to carry on the good work. According to Coach Whittle, the outlook is promising despite the loss of Karl Frazier, Davidson's runner par excellence of the past two seasons.

’Cats To Play Deacons On Wake Forest Field

It has been announced that the annual Thanksgiving game between Wake Forest and Davidson will be played this year at Wake Forest. This contest had been scheduled tentatively for Charlotte. The game has been set aside this year by the Baptists as “home-coming day,” so naturally they would want it to be played on their own campus. The Wake Forest stadium has been greatly improved and is in far better shape now than in the past. The playing field is smoother and more regular while the seating capacity has been enlarged and can offer more comfort to the large crowd which always attends this game. We hope to have a large number of representatives there to show them that the “Wildcat Spirit” is undying.

CAMERAS and Supplies
W. I. VAN NESS & CO.
Charlotte, N. C.

WILDCATS MEET VIRGINIA CAVALIERS ON SATURDAY

CO-CAPTAIN
HENRY CATHEY
TACKLE

CLASS FOOTBALL CONTESTS BEGIN
Seniors Conquer Sophomores and Freshmen As Current Season Opens

The Seniors won a thrilling extra-period game against the Sophomores Monday afternoon, 6-0, and took undisputed possession of first place in the inter-class touch football competition. A long pass from Sam Milton to Hank Loftin, who was waiting over the goal-line, came late in the extra period and proved to be the margin of victory that kept the Seniors’ record clean. The second-year men threatened throughout the game, but they were unable to muster that final punch to push the ball across the goal-line. After the Seniors had made their marker, the Sophomores intercepted a pass and had the ball on the Seniors’ two-yard line when the game ended. For the victors, Bill Bell, Hank Loftin, Carlyle Lewis, and John Partridge stood out, while the outstanding players for the losers were “Buddy” Rainey, E. J. Ganier, Bill Harris, Leonard Fort, William Dixon, and Roy Gilks.

In the first game of the current competition, the Seniors defeated the Freshmen by the same score, 6-0. In the first half, a pass from Carlyle Lewis, captain of the Seniors’ team, to Jim Cothran from the Frosh 10-yard line resulted in the game's only score. The first-year men provided a stubborn defense for the Seniors’ powerful passing attack, and although their intricate laterals proved as puzzling to themselves as to their opponents, they constantly harassed the Seniors’ defense with an accurate-passing pair of southpaws, Buddy Young and George Johnson. This pair proved to be outstanding for the Freshmen, while Jim Cothran, Carlyle Lewis, Hank Loftin, John Partridge, Bill Benfield, Sam Milton, and Bill Bell all proved to be important factors in the Seniors’ victory.

In the other game played so far, the Juniors’ passing combination of Knorr and Walter Dickson proved too strong for the Sophomores, and the Juniors won, 12-0. The first score came as a result of a long pass from Knorr to Dixon.who had circled behind the Sophomore safety man and caught the ball on a dead run. The second score came from a short pass, again from Knorr to Dixon, who snaked his way through a broken field for fifty yards. This last play was good for ninety yards. For the Sophomores, “Buddy” Rainey, Henry Lyons, “Sky” Cline, Dan Iverson, Leonard Fort, Bill Harris, Willard Dixon, and Lawrence Reid stood out. This week the schedule is as follows: Tuesday, Juniors vs. Freshmen; Wednesday, Seniors vs. Juniors; and Thursday, Sophomores vs. Freshmen.

Ken Woody Burns Out Of Saturday’s Game

Coach McEver stated that Wood Burns, varsity center, would definitely be out of the Virginia game this week. Burns was injured early in the State tilt the past week. Big Six Johnston will probably be out also as his old injury is still giving him trouble. The remainder of the squad is in fine shape. Doc Newton, Davidson head coach, is improving and should be with the Wildcats in a few days.

DAVIDSON AND DARLINGTON TO PLAY

Coach Flake Laird’s Kittens Pointing Determinedly For Initial Contest

KITTENS LACK WEIGHT

Freshmen Will Meet Five Teams This Season

Rounding into form for their opening game with Darlington here, Oct. 4, the Davidson Wildkitten footballers are ready to show a skeptical campus just what is on their clawlets. Coach “Red” Laird has been in process of sharpening these little weapons and dulling the rough edges since the opening week of school, and from a tiny squad of twenty-eight will send out a light, but spirited, team to face the invading Georgia prepsters. This season's frosh team will be especially light in the backfield, two Cherryville boys, Rudisill and Mauney, being the only ones to pack any weight, out of a group of backs which includes in addition: Steere, Staire, Hunt, Harrison, Sample, Edgerton, Long, Brown, Plonk, and Hand. The line hefts a bit more per man, but lacks reserves. The only men out for line positions are: Ends: Hicks, Iverson, McClelland, and Benfield. Tackles: Warden, Johnston, Edwards, and McMullen. Guards: Gasteiger, Miller, Ellis, and Summerell. Centers: Abel, McCall, Moore. It is yet too early to determine any outstanding players from this squad, and unsafe to make any predictions about comparative team strength. However, Coach Laird reports that the boys are really working hard, and that the outlook is for a better team than last year’s yearling outfit. After the Darlington game Friday, the following teams will be met on the Wildkittens’ schedule:

Oct. 18—State freshmen at Davidson.
Oct. 25—V. P. I. freshmen at Blacksburg, Va.
Nov. 8—Duke freshmen at Durham.
Nov. 22—Wofford freshmen at Davidson.

Athletic Set-Up Radically Changed

Blythe Replaces Pritchett Chairman; Chapman Aids in Football; Whittle to Coach Track

There have been a number of changes from last year's set-up in the Athletic Association. Due to the vacancy on the Athletic Committee, occasioned by Captain Pritchett’s acceptance of the position as supervisor of athletics at the University of Virginia, Prof. Blythe was appointed as chairman of the Athletic Committee by Dr. Lingle. The other members of the committee are Mr. Jackson, Prof. Wood, and Prof. Currie. Coach Chapman was secured to assist “Doc” Newton in coaching the varsity line and will be here only during football season. While attending Bowling Green College, in Ohio, Chapman was an outstanding member on the squad playing during his college course at end, guard, and tackle. Immediately after graduation, he was selected to coach the freshmen team. Last year, Chapman played on the Charlotte professional team. Pete Whittle was appointed to fill Captain Pritchett’s position as head coach of the track team. Beside coaching varsity and freshmen track teams, Pete Whittle is teaching Physical Education one and two. He will continue supervising Intramural and Interfraternity sports, and also gym classes. “Tubby” Hand is assisting “Doc” Unger with the “All Americans” and Parks Harrison is helping Coach Laird with the Wildkittens, and completing work for his diploma.

WALKER AND WOODWARD WINNERS OF CAKE RACE

Both Tie for First Place to Break Record of Earl Frazier

HICKMAN PLACES THIRD

Ninety-Three Frosh Enter To Break Entry Record

In the freshman cake race this afternoon, freshmen T. E. Walker and D. B. Woodward crossed the tape to tie for honors at first place, while they both broke the present record of 9:35.5, held by Earl Frazier. Their time for the race was nine minutes-thirty-four and eight-tenths seconds. Walker, Woodward and Hickman, the latter winning third place in the race, took the lead in the beginning and held it all through the race. Graves, Beach and Wilson were close behind to gain the remaining three places. Earl Frazier, winner of the cake race three years ago, has held the course record up to now but it was broken this afternoon by a margin of two seconds. Neither of these men have ever had any track experience before but proved themselves to be good endurance runners to win over a field of ninety-three freshmen. Last year there were fifty-eight men who entered the race and this year the record for entries was broken by a margin of thirty-five. This is the largest number of freshmen that have ever tried out for honors in the cake race event. The winners for the race last year were Rick White, who finished first with a time of 11:11, Roy Gilks, second, Dowdle, third, and Bruce Parcell, fourth.

Prizes will be given to the first twenty-four men who finished the race. Their names are listed as follows in the respective order in which they finished:

1. T. E. Walker, 2. D. B. Woodward, 3. J. W. Hickman, 4. J. N. Graves, 5. Rex Beach, 6. J. K. Wilson, 7. W. M. Houston, 8. R. L. Deaton, 9. T. P. Porter, 10. L. Skinner, 11. A. M. Steele, 12. W. Marquess, 13. L. L. Young, 14. W. W. Telford, 15. G. Jones, 16. J. P. Tice, 17. S. C. Webb, 18. S. Rice, 19. G. F. Johnson, 20. J. L. Tillotson, 21. W. M. Orr, 22. A. Mawhinney, 23. C. Berryhill, 24. O. V. Armstrong.

Fall Fabrics present a fresh opportunity to look your best in clothes tailored in the best traditions of custom tailoring, and at reasonable prices.

Mal Grimes and Dick Johnson
Campus Representatives

Measurements by Bill Hardee, Formerly with Hardee-Holden Co., Charlotte, N. C.