JUNIOR SPEAKING DANCES ANNOUNCED FOR MARCH 15-16

ALENDA LUX U ORTA LIBERTAS

AWARDS GIVEN TO STUDENT WINNERS OF PHOTO CONTEST

Vol. XXII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FEBRUARY 27, 1935 No. 18

NATHAN SPEECH IS FEATURE OF I.R.C. CONCLAVE

Three Day Southeastern Students’ Conference Culminates In Election

CHARLES LUCAS PRESIDES

Site For Next Year’s Conference Not Yet Chosen

The three-day Southeastern Students Conference of International Relations Clubs came to a close here at noon Saturday. This was the largest of the twelve annual conferences that have been held in the South and was attended by 175 delegates representing 65 schools and colleges.

The meeting opened Thursday afternoon with an informal reception and registration of delegates in the banquet hall of Chambers Building. At the meeting held that night, Dr. J. M. McConnell, dean of the faculty at Davidson, extended a welcome to the conference, and Charles Lucas, president of the conference, presided. Miss Zuline Morris, Brenau College, and Miss Ursula Hubbard, representative of the Carnegie Foundation, responded to the addresses of welcome. Following this meeting, guests were entertained by the social fraternities who held open house.

The convention officially opened Friday morning with a discussion of the economic and political situation in the Far East which was led by Alan Jenkins, professor of the Asheville School, who has traveled extensively in the East. The discussion centered around the Japanese-Manchurian situation with Mr. Jenkins furnishing the discussion background. At 11 o'clock the group considered the situation in Central Europe. This topic was introduced by Dr. T. W. Lingle of Davidson and Dr. Otto Nathan contributed to the discussion. Questions were asked by the delegates concerning the German-Austrian situation and the possibilities of a German-Italian alliance.

Following the luncheon, Dr. Keener C. Frazer, professor at the University of North Carolina, delivered an address on “The Work of the League of Nations in Disarmament and American Policy.” Reports from the 65 international relations clubs represented were received by Miss Hubbard that afternoon.

The annual banquet of the club was held in the banquet hall Friday night, with Charles Lucas, president of the group, as toastmaster. Dr. Otto Nathan, noted German political adviser and economist, now a professor at Princeton University, gave the principal address of the conference that evening, speaking on the “Problems of World Recovery.” In his lecture Dr. Nathan stressed the lessons to be gained from the recent world-wide economic crises and also emphasized the part played by wars in disrupting economic security. He listed three of the major teachings which may be drawn from this (Continued on Page 6, Col. 5)

WINNERS OF STATE WRESTLING CHAMPIONSHIP

Courtesy of Charlotte News. Above is pictured the Davidson wrestling team which defeated the N. C. State team last Friday night by a score of fifteen and one-half to ten and one-half to win the state championship. The men, reading from left to right, are: front row, Shirey, Owen, Moffett, Thompson, and Taylor; rear row, Manager Porter, Hodgin, Captain Fort, Quarterman, Blackwelder, and Coach Unger.

COLLEGE BAND TO TOUR STATE

Concert Band Itinerary Includes Cities In North Carolina And Virginia

The Davidson College Concert Band will leave for an extensive concert tour of the state on Tuesday afternoon, February 5. Forty-five members of the band will make the trip, which will last four days in all. The first concert of the series will be given at Lenoir on Tuesday night, February 5. On Wednesday the band will travel over to Lexington, where they will play in the afternoon. Wednesday night they are scheduled to appear in Salisbury. On Thursday morning the band will present their concert in the town of Clemons. On Thursday evening they will play in Winston-Salem, the largest city on the route. Friday afternoon and night the band will make its appearance on the stage of the Paramount Theatre in Hickory. The program for these concerts will be the same as the one which will be presented in the Chambers Auditorium next Friday night. The entire trip will be made in one circuit. The members of the band will travel in a Queen City bus, and their instruments will be carried in a truck which will be furnished through the kindness of Mr. J. C. Harper, director of the famous Lenoir High School Band.

Wood Announced As Winner Of College Picture Contest

Squires Wins Second Prize And Abernathy Takes Third Prize In Contest

In the photographic contest conducted recently by the Davidsonian in connection with Mr. I. W. Van Ness, Gordon Wood won the first prize of five dollars’ worth of photographic stock, Graham Squires won second prize of $2.50, and John Abernathy won the third prize of $1.50. Wood's entry was a photograph of Gus Maynard and his dog Kayo, taken on the golf course. Squires’ entry was a picture of Geddie Monroe, cheerleader in the annual Georgia-Watts football game. These two pictures can be seen on page 5.

This contest was limited to Davidson students, and the pictures were to portray some phase of life at Davidson. They could also portray campus scenes, personalities of the college, college buildings, or anything else that would preserve the history of the college. The photographs were judged on their originality, value in preserving the history of the college, and general workmanship.

Students Of Chemistry Visit Charlotte Plants

The Chemistry 6 class in Industrial Chemistry which is taught by Professor Clifford made a trip to Charlotte last Wednesday afternoon and inspected the lard plant of the Swift Refining Company and the sulphuric acid plant of the Merchants Fertilizer Company.

At Swift's plant, the class saw how lards and other solid oils were made from the hydrogenated cotton seed oil which is shipped to the plant from Atlanta. Later in the afternoon the class went to the lead chamber sulphuric acid plant of the Merchants Fertilizer Company where they saw sulphuric acid being made. The class was very fortunate in this visit, because just before their visit, the acid in one of the lead chambers of the plant had become too strong and had eaten a hole through the lead. So when the class visited the plant, they were able to (Continued on Page 6, Col. 1)

Trustees Receive Students’ Petition

Trustees Hold Meeting Last Wednesday To Transact Routine Business

Trustees of Davidson College were in session at Davidson last Wednesday, at which time a petition requesting a new social center and the privilege of campus dances was presented to the group by several student organizations.

The Student Policies Union, comprising eighty percent of the upperclassmen, presented their petition orally through a committee composed of R. T. Coit, G. H. Brown, K. D. Weeks, and Carl Carlson. Brown acted as spokesman for the group. Other petitions were submitted by Omicron Delta Kappa through Bob Smith, the Pan-Hellenic Council through Mims Rogers, and the Honorary Fraternity Council by Hugh Yelverton.

The Board of Trustees referred the question to a committee which is to report with recommendations at the June meeting of the trustees. Dr. R. A. Dunn, president of the board, appointed the committee which is headed by Dr. C. R. Nisbet of Charlotte. In addition to the petitions submitted, the trustees transacted routine business and heard reports from Dr. W. L. Lingle, president of the college, and F. I. Jackson, treasurer. Four new members of the board were present at this meeting. They were Dr. A. S. Johnson, Dr. P. D. Miller, Rev. C. S. Rowan, and Dr. J. M. Richards.

Gordon Brown Speaks Before Engineers Club

Gordon H. Brown, president of the Davidson student body, addressed the fifty members of the Engineers Club gathered for luncheon at Efird’s in Charlotte at one o'clock Monday. The subject of his speech was “The Young Man in a Dissolving World.” A summary of the address follows:

“This is a discussion of the young man’s dilemma in a world of revolution where old standards of value are being thrown into discard.

“Political, economic, ethical, and religious provinces of thought of the old order are in so great a state of fluctuation that youth finds it increasingly difficult to create a design for living. The old doctrine of individualism we have been taught to believe was peculiarly American is being, in these strenuous times, attacked to the point where it no longer is a part of legitimate social policy. What we formerly believed to be the typical American maxim, of industry, frugality, and individual independence are no longer the criteria they once were in the light of a growing conception of government as the great provider.”

“Skip” has spoken in Charlotte a number of times before this, though this is the first time he has addressed this organization of engineers and technicians.

WILSON SPEAKS TO VOLUNTEERS

John McMullen Elected President Of Volunteer Union For Next Year

The State Student Volunteer Union held its annual conference on the weekend of February 15-17. The conference this year, held at the Trinity Avenue Presbyterian Church just off the campus of Duke University in Durham,entertained representatives from practically all the colleges in North Carolina. “The Christian Student’s Response to a Confused World” was the general theme of the state meeting, and all the talks, lectures, and Christian messages delivered to the representatives bore directly upon this theme. Mr. Jess Wilson, general secretary of the Student Volunteer Movement, was the principal speaker at the conference. Mr. Wilson visited the Davidson campus after the conference and spoke at the chapel exercises on Wednesday, February 14.

Of more personal interest to the student body was the election of John McMullen, of the class of 1935, to the presidency of the State Student Volunteer Union for next year. This office was held last year by Pons Scott, of the class of 1934. Frank Brown, a member of the Sophomore class, was honored with the office of state deputation secretary for next year. Not only was Davidson honored by the election of these two men to high offices in the Union, but also the local group took first place in the number of deputations for the past year. “The conference,” as reported by the members of the Union here who attended the conference, “was indeed inspiring. All those who were present left with an impelling desire to respond in a positive way to the confusion of the world.”

Debaters Depart Soon On Trip Through South

The varsity debating team which will make the Southern tour, composed of Albert Stutts, from Eagle Springs, N. C., and Harold Sugg, from Greenville, N. C., will leave Davidson on Wednesday morning for Charleston, S. C., where they will engage in debate with the College of Charleston on February 28. From there they will journey into Florida to meet the University of Miami on March 5. On the return trip, the debaters will stop in Atlanta and oppose Emory University on March 7, and either the University of Georgia or Georgia Tech on March 9.

The question for debate is, Resolved: That the nations shall agree to prevent the international shipment of arms and munitions. The Southern team will uphold the affirmative side of the question. Warner DuBose will accompany the debaters as an alternate. Mr. DuBose is manager of the varsity debating team.

WILDCAT GRAPPLERS WIN BIG FIVE TITLE BY DOWNING STATE

Dr. A. E. RUARK TO SPEAK HERE

University Physics Professor To Speak On “Building Stones Of Matter”

Dr. Arthur E. Ruark, of the University of North Carolina, will speak here on the evening of Tuesday, March 5, at 7:30 o'clock. He comes to Davidson under the auspices of the Faculty Committee on Public Lectures and is very highly recommended. Dr. Ruark will take as his subject, “Building Stones of Matter,” dealing principally with the nuclear side of matter; protons, electrons, positrons, deutrons, and neutrons, and other subjects dealing with the disintegration of matter.

While of especial interest to students of chemistry and physics, this lecture will also contain much of value for the general public; it will offer a clearer understanding of the principles underlying the cosmic ray which has recently attracted so much popular notice. Everyone is cordially invited to attend, and there will be no admission charge.

Although this is Dr. Ruark’s first year at the university, he is the head of the Physics Department there and has long been prominent in scientific fields, being in great demand as a lecturer on scientific subjects. Before his connection with the University of North Carolina, he was a research worker in the Mellon Institute of Industrial Research and lecturer on physics at the University of Pittsburgh. He collaborated with Dr. H. C. Urey, Nobel prize winner and professor at Columbia University, in the compilation of “Atoms, Molecules, and Quanta,” a book which records every important contribution to the fields of physics and chemistry made within the last ten years. This book is a standard text, used in almost every institution of higher learning within the land and has become the sine qua non for candidates for an advanced degree in either of these subjects.

A comparatively young man, in the middle forties, Dr. Ruark has for a decade been affiliated with the leading scientific organizations of the country. At present, he is engaged in forming southern branches of the Physical Society of America. Last week he spoke before the Sigma Xi organization at Duke University.

(Continued on Page 6, Col. 1)

Davidson Alumnus Discusses Progress Of Music Department

Two Fraternities Held Initiations Last Week

Two social fraternities, Kappa Alpha and Phi Gamma Delta, held formal initiation ceremonies for their pledges during the past week. Kappa Alpha began its initiation last night and will complete it tonight. Tomorrow night a model initiation will be held to which faculty and alumni members are invited. A social affair will be held afterwards. G. W. Palmer of Memphis, Tenn., president of the K. A. pledge group, will be initiated in the model ceremony. Other initiates are: J. P. Bailey, Rock Hill, S. C.; J. F. Bland; F. W. Dennis, Concord; J. B. Graham, Burlington; W. H. Harris, Roxboro; and B. S. Kenney, Frankfort, Ky.

Phi Gamma Delta initiated ten pledges last Saturday afternoon with a formal initiation in the Dome Room of Chambers. After the initiation, the Fijis journeyed to Charlotte where they attended their annual Norris Pig Dinner at the S. & W. Andy Bird, ’32, acted as toastmaster, and Pete Dunsford, honor guest, introduced the pig. The following pledges were initiated: I. S. Bull, Winston-Salem; W. O. Cooke, Greensboro; J. L. Dooley, Knoxville, Tenn.

Captain Harper, Director Of Lenoir Band, Compliments Music Department

INTERVIEWED BY RICHARD VOWLES

Immediately after the concert which the Lenoir High Band presented here recently, this interviewer made his way toward the stage to speak to the director, Capt. James C. Harper. Knowing Captain Harper to be an alumnus of Davidson, I questioned him on the music department in his day.

“The music department, when I was here, was made up of the glee club and the salon orchestra. There was, strange to say, no band when I came, but one was organized before I left.”

“What do you think of the music department now?”

“I think Davidson College has a fine music department. The band, in my opinion, is the best in the state. The other two organizations, naturally, have not progressed as far, but probably will.”

“What do you think of music in the public schools?”

“Music has definitely been established as an essential part of education. It gives an outlet for leisure time, thus providing a double asset.”

“Do you think the average man should have any musical knowledge?”

“Yes, I do. Music is always about one, by the radio especially. Anything so universal should have some place in the knowledge of every man.”

(Continued on Page 6, Col. 1)

(Continued on Page 6, Col. 4)