PETITION WILL GO TO TRUSTEES’ FEBRUARY 20

Che Mabidsontan

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

READ THIS WEEK EDITORIALS; OPEN FORUM ON PAGE 2

Vol. XXII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FEBRUARY 13, 1935 No. 16

S.P.U. WILL PETITION TRUSTEES NEXT WEEK

WINTERS TO GET UNDER WAY FRIDAY EVENING

Paul Sabin And Patricia Gail Are Featured In Approaching Festivities — VALENTINE MOTIF USED

Council Arranges Decorations For Coming Dance Set

At nine-thirty Friday evening Davidson’s Mid-Winter dances will begin to the strains of Paul Sabin’s orchestra and the melodic voice of Patricia Gail, torch singer. The Pan-Hellenic Council has completed plans for what they hope will be the most enjoyable dance set of the year. All three dances will be held in the Charlotte Armory.

The Friday night formal dance, lasting until 2 A.M., will be one of the most colorful events on Davidson's social calendar. Special Valentine decorations have been arranged for the occasion at considerable expense by the Council. Paul Sabin has also wired the Council that he has prepared several novelties to aid in effectively carrying out the decorative scheme.

As has been the custom in the past, the members of the Pan-Hellenic Council will form a figure during the Friday night dance. The figure this year has been arranged by a noted dance instructor in Charlotte. The following members of the Council and their dates will be in the figure: Mims Rogers, Joe Wadsworth, Bill Atwater, Fred McPhail, Duke Glasgow, Charley Harris, Hugh Yelverton, W. B. Ravenel, and A. C. Rogers. The figure will also include an additional representative from each fraternity with their dates.

The Saturday tea dance will begin at five-thirty and last until seven, and the night dance will last from 8:30 to 12. Both of these dances will be informal. Novelties and other additional features have been arranged for these affairs. Practically every fraternity on the campus is planning a party or banquet to add to the revelry of the occasion. Comment among the students seems to point to the fact that all are looking forward to a gala weekend and many are inviting dates up to share in the festivities.

In addition to Patricia Gail, Bob Carter and Paul Sabin make up a well-balanced vocal team. Carter was formerly with Paul Whiteman with whom he gained recognition for his vocal talent. Paul Sabin plays the banjo and guitar when not directing his bandsmen.

Dr. Craig To Talk Here On Thursday

Stanford English Professor Will Speak On “The Opinion Of Plenty” Tomorrow Night

Dr. Hardin Craig, professor of English in Stanford University, California, has been engaged to deliver a lecture in the auditorium of the Chambers Building on Thursday, February 14, at 7:30 o'clock in the evening. Dr. Craig announced that his subject will be “The Opinion of Plenty,” and he explains this title by saying that he will discuss the function of learning in the community.

Doctor Craig has written frequently and well in the field of English literature. Among his most recent works is an edition of the principal plays of Shakespeare, which has taken its place as one of the leading books on this subject. Doctor Craig will be accompanied by Mrs. Craig on his visit to Davidson. They will come here from Chapel Hill, where Doctor Craig is teaching during the winter quarter in the English department of the University of North Carolina.

The committee on lectures is indebted to Dr. Charles Robson, of the Department of History in the University of North Carolina, for assistance in engaging Doctor Craig. Doctor Robson will accompany Dr. and Mrs. Craig on the trip here Thursday.

Pan-Hellenic Head

P. MIMS RODGERS, president of the Pan-Hellenic Council, who has charge of the Mid-Winters Dances to be given here Friday and Saturday.

CONVENTION PLANS FINISHED

Tentative Program For Three Days Of Conference Has Been Announced

Plans are now nearing completion for the Southern Conference of the International Relations Club, to be held here February 21-23, at which time approximately 200 delegates, representing the colleges and universities of the entire south, will throng the campus in their annual gathering.

Dr. Otto Nathan, prominent German politician and statesman will be the principal speaker for the occasion. He is now a member of the faculty of Princeton University, and is well-versed in the international affairs of the day.

The program of the conference, which lasts from Thursday afternoon through Saturday morning, is as follows: Thursday afternoon, February 21, the delegates will register at the International Relations Club office and an informal reception will be given them between the hours of 3:00 to 6:00 o'clock P.M. Dinner will be served to the college representatives at 6:30 P.M., the opening meeting will begin at 7:30 P.M., and Dr. W. L. Lingle, President of Davidson College will deliver an “Address of Welcome.” Miss Hubbard will deliver a response on the Carnegie Foundation. Charles Lucas, President of the Conference, plans to give an Address of Welcome to the college delegates.

Friday, February 22, a Discussion of the Far East Situation will commence at 9:30 A.M. The leader of the question is Alan Jenkins, Asheville School. Dr. A. A. McFadyen, Missionary to China, is to act as collaborator. A discussion of the Situation in Central Europe, led by Dr. T. W. Lingle, professor of history at Davidson College, and Dr. Otto Nathan, a collaborator on this question.

Lunch begins at 12:30 P.M., and an address, “Work of the League of Nations and American Policy” will be given by Dr. K. C. Frazer, professor at the University of North Carolina, beginning (Continued on Page 6, Col. 4)

New Professor Takes Over Minault’s Duties

Professor Robert G. Bailey has taken over the classes in French which Professor Minault was forced to give up due to his recent illness.

Bailey will continue in his present capacity for the remainder of the year. Professor Bailey took his A.B. and M.A. work at Wesleyan University at Middleton, Conn., and then took additional graduate work at Princeton University. Last year was his first year of teaching when he taught at Massenutten Military Academy.

Professor Bailey’s chief impression of the South thus far has been the warmness of the weather, it happened that he left the North during a cold spell and arrived here during the recent warm spell so that he received a very favorable impression of southern weather.

GREEK SOCIETIES HOLD INITIATION OF PLEDGED MEN

Beta Theta Pi, Phi Delta Theta, Pi Kappa Phi, Sigma Alpha Epsilon Initiate

OTHERS TO INITIATE SOON

Pikas, Phi Gamms, SPE’s, KA’s, K Sigs To Initiate Soon

With the advent of the second semester, fraternities are initiating the new men pledged last fall. The following houses have already had their formal initiations: Beta Theta Pi, Phi Delta Theta, Pi Kappa Phi, and Sigma Alpha Epsilon.

Beta Theta Pi held their initiation last Saturday night, February 9. The following men were initiated: M. Hall, W. D. Hobbs, Irvin Hogan, C. K. Malone, H. McLaughlin, Oren Moore, Jr., and J. B. Overall.

Phi Delta Theta held their initiation last Monday night, February 11. The following men were initiated: B. B. Crooks, J. E. McClelland, J. W. Tonissen, and J. M. Westall.

On February 11, Pi Kappa Phi initiated the following men: P. H. Arrowsmith, D. A. Bowles, T. U. Cameron, R. L. Chandler, J. Kellam, H. E. Maples, R. J. Melchor, J. W. McLean, J. Y. Wilson, and W. P. Yelverton.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon, on February 11, initiated the following: E. R. Bahnson, H. Barksdale, M. S. Brittain, H. P. Eve, Y. W. Faisof, G. K. Matthis, A. T. McLean, W. S. Nicholson, C. R. Moore, J. M. Newton, W. P. Turner and W. S. Shepherd.

Pi Kappa Alpha will hold their initiation on February 14; and Phi Gamma Delta and Sigma Phi Epsilon on February 23.

EXECUTIVE MEET TO FORESHADOW BOARD ACTION

Charlotte Office To Be Scene Of Business Conference Next Tuesday

REPORTS WILL BE MADE

College Policies Are To Be Decided On Wednesday

The Executive Committee of the Trustees of Davidson College will meet Tuesday, February 19, in Charlotte at 11 o'clock in the office of R. A. Dunn, for their regular semi-annual meeting. The main purpose of this mid-winter session is to receive the reports of the president, Dr. Walter L. Lingle, and the treasurer, Mr. Frank L. Jackson. The board will also receive suggestions and recommendations for the years 1935 and 1936. At present no special questions are to be discussed.

There are forty-nine trustees of Davidson College, thirty-nine of which are elected by the Presbyteries of North Carolina, four by the Presbyteries of Florida, and twelve by the Alumni Association. All trustees are elected for a term of four years. The board meets twice a year, once in February and once in May at the closing of college. At the mid-winter session most of the college policies are decided. The Executive Committee, which practically regulates all college activities, is elected each year at the first meeting of the board. This committee is vested with authority of the trustees to act upon important questions between sessions.

The present officers of the trustees are: R. A. Dunn, Charlotte, president; Mr. H. Smith Richardson, New York, vice-president; and Mr. S. A. Robinson, Gastonia, secretary.

PETITION TO TRUSTEES

To the Trustees of Davidson College in meeting assembled this twentieth day of February, 1935, this petition is respectfully submitted.

Petitioning body: the Student Policies Union (composed of 80 percent of the upper classes of the student body of Davidson College).

Subject: A request for the suspension of the present dancing prohibitions and a trial period of dancing on the Davidson College campus under the supervision of any authority the Board of Trustees may deem fit to appoint.

In order to avoid any misapprehension the petitioning body wishes in the outset to explain its nature. For many scholastic generations there has been a prevalent sentiment among Davidson students concerning dancing on the campus; this sentiment has at several periods broken out in rather violent and incendiary agitations for dancing on the campus. In contradistinction, the body which calls itself the Student Policies Union has sprungup in order to organize current student sentiment, and bend this sentiment into reasonable channels devoid of rebellions or childishly excitative characteristics. The members of the Student Policies Union originally united themselves by being co-signers to an article expressing a general dissatisfaction with existing social conditions on the campus. After formal organization, we have been able (we think, and hope) to formulate more reasonable and more specific opinions than those which at first brought us together.

The Student Policies Union believes that a definitely necessary part of education at Davidson should be a gentlemanly participation in a certain amount of social activities. We cannot believe that social activities should be overemphasized in a student’s life; but not any more can we believe that a student preparing for later life outside of academic walls should completely omit social activities. A golden mean of moderation should be reached. It is not difficult to observe that this golden mean has not been reached at Davidson. And so the objective of the Student Policies Union has been the fulfillment of the need for social reform. But this need for social reform is a very generalized matter with many and varied aspects; and that is why the subject of our petition has crystallized into a specific request for dancing on the campus; for we believe that the present status of Davidson dances is the focal point for a majority of Davidson social maladjustments.

Before setting forth our reasons for petitioning dancing on the campus, we most earnestly wish to make clear our spirit in presenting this petition. We feel very heavily our obligations in upholding and perpetuating that essence called the Davidson Spirit. And we feel that an important part of the Davidson Spirit is the relation of the students to those in authority, not only to those most closely in contact with us, the faculty, but to the whole background of the college. Davidson is a school run by the Church; and, whereas it is not so narrow as to exclude students of other denominations, yet the life-spring behind the college, the whole source of all its traditions and regulations, of its character and aspirations is the Southern Presbyterian Church. Those placed in authority over the students are in a definite way in loco parentis. And so it is that with respect and honor to their principles we are at present making this petition. We go to them in much the same way as we would go to our own fathers, not rebelliously, nor flauntingly, nor with a carping spirit.

And now we wish to set forth our reason for what we ask. For the moment we should like to disregard the rightness and wrongness of dancing while we examine the existing evils which encircle its practice by Davidson students. It is easy to see that dancing is inevitable—whether in its good and proper form or in its low and degraded form. Students will and do dance. Its inevitability has in a way been recognized by the authorities through their definite provision for Davidson dances off the campus. Seeing that a great faction of sentiment has looked upon dancing as a grave impurity which would harm the high ideals of a church school,

(Continued on Page 3, Col. 2)

Davidsonian Sponsors Ballot Among Parents

A ballot of the parents of the Senior Class sponsored by THE DAVIDSONIAN in conjunction with the Student Policies Union has recently been completed. Letters were sent to the parents of each member of the class explaining the movement now on foot to bring dancing to the campus. A ballot was placed in each letter allowing the parents to mail in their opinion on the question asked. The question was: “If dancing had been permitted on the Davidson campus at the time you were choosing a college for your son, would you still have chosen Davidson?” The ballots did not have to be signed. Out of about one hundred and ten letters sent out, there were sixty-one answers received. Of this number, fifty-three said they would have sent their sons to Davidson had there been dancing on the campus at the time, and only eight said they would not have done so.

PHOTO CONTEST LOSES FRIDAY

Prizes To Be Awarded For Snapshots Most Representative Of Student Life

The photographic contest, which is being conducted for local photographers by The Davidsonian in connection with Mr. I. W. Van Ness, Charlotte dealer in photographic supplies, will terminate Friday, February 15. Before that date, all photographs must be submitted to The Davidsonian. Mr. Van Ness is offering as first prize five dollars worth of photographic stock to the student who enters the most valuable photograph preserving the “history of Davidson.” The Davidsonian is adding a second prize of $2.50 and one of $1.50. Any further information concerning this contest and the requirements of the individual photographs may be secured at The Davidsonian office. The contest is strictly limited to Davidson students. The photographs can portray any phase of life at Davidson: athletics, dormitory life, fraternity life, or anything that pertains to Davidson College or its students. The pictures may also portray campus scenes, personalities of the college, and college buildings, anything that preserves the history of Davidson College. The pictures are to be judged on their originality and value in preserving any of the college history and must be taken and submitted before Friday, January 15. They can be of any description whatever; taken at night or in the daytime, snapshots or time exposures, and of any size. The judges will be selected by The Davidsonian, and their opinion will be counted as final. They will judge the photographs on the above-mentioned points and no others, so if the entrants fill all the requirements, there will be no chance of disqualification. The winning pictures will appear in The Davidsonian after the closing date of the contest. All photographs absolutely must be in the hands of The Davidsonian, Editor K. D. Weeks or one of the magazine editors on or before February 15, 1935.

Lenoir Band Presents Concert At Davidson

Last Thursday, February 7, the Lenoir High School Band presented a concert to an audience of about three hundred students and townspeople. The program consisted of classical music and marches. There were a number of solos and duets given by the various instruments of the band. The Lenoir Band won the state championship last year. They came to Davidson after having made four records for the Victor Recording company the day before. The members of the Lenoir Band were shown around the campus by members of the Davidson Band.

ALSO A SOCIAL CENTER, CAMPUS DANCING TO BE REQUESTED

O.D.K., Y.M.C.A., And Honorary Fraternity Council Will Present Resolutions

PETITIONS REFUSED IN 1931

Student Committees To Appear Before Board Meeting

When the Board of Trustees of Davidson College convenes February 20, to hold its regular biennial session of two or three days, it will be presented with petitions and resolutions of vital concern to the entire student body by several petitioning bodies or organizations within this group. Foremost among these and that which will concern requests which have been the topic of much local and outside discussion for the past three or four months will be the petition presented by the Student Policies Union, an organization which originated last November and which now comprises more than seventy-five per cent of the three upper classes of the student body. The primary objective of the Student Policies Union is the improvement of social conditions on the Davidson College Campus. This it hopes to bring about by having the Trustees grant its requests which ask for the erection of a new and adequate Social Center and that dancing be permitted on the campus. Should the latter request be granted it would be a reversal of the ruling handed down in 1931 when the Trustees last considered a student body petition of this nature and ruled that dancing on the campus would continue to be prohibited.

A Social Center building is included in the Centennial building program which was made public last Fall but the Student Policies Union feeling that funds will not be available to provide for all the construction included in this program, will ask that this be the first building erected. This question has been agitated in The Davidsonian off and on the past several months through editorial and open forum comment to which a number of Davidson alumni and supporters have contributed. The Union, through this medium, has attempted to show that unless adequate provisions are made on this campus for the student's social inclinations, including dancing on the campus Social Center, there will never exist here at Davidson a cultural and normal type of social life, the lack of which results in the continued week-end exit of students away from the campus in order to gain satisfaction of these desires.

Omicron Delta Kappa and the Y.M.C.A. will also make requests to the Board at this time, either in resolution or petition form. Although the detailed nature of their requests has not been made public, it is definitely known that these two influential organizations will converge in asking for a Social Center. It has also been learned that the Honorary Fraternity Council will join the above-mentioned groups in tendering a petition. Committees from each petitioning body to go before the Board of Trustees will be selected in the near future.

Rev. Redhead Will Be Spring Speaker

Tampa, Fla., Pastor Is Graduate Of Hampton-Sydney And Union Seminary

Reverend J. H. Redhead has accepted the invitation to be the speaker at the annual Spring services, to be held from April 14-17th. Rev. Redhead is at present pastor of the First Presbyterian Church at Tampa, Fla., and is one of the prominent young preachers in the South today. He graduated from Hampton-Sydney College, Hampton-Sydney, Va., and upon graduating from the Union Theological Seminary in Richmond, Va., took his first pastorate in Farmville, Va. Albert McClure, secretary for the Y.M.C.A. here, says that Redhead comes as a highly recommended young leader and one thoroughly competent to advise youth.