THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 16, 1935

The Davidsonian
Founded by the Class of 1916

1935 Member 1936
Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest

fairly well convinced that it plays some small part in Davidson life. It is your newspaper, so use it as
you would any other thing that belongs to you. The staff encourages you to make The Davidsonian a real means
by which student opinion shall be molded and in which student life may be recorded as it progresses.

AROUND WASHINGTON

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Printed by the QUEEN CITY PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate year.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879.

ARTICLES FOR PUBLICATION must be in the hands of Managing Editors by 4:00 o'clock p.m., Monday. Letters to the Editor
are welcome, but all communications intended for publication must be signed.

MARION T. BROWN, Editor
R. P. MORROW, Jr. Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
Jim Morton Managing Editor
By ARNOLD SERWER (Associated Collegiate Press Correspondent)

Washington, D.C.—After a young college man has been in this town for about a year he often finds that his
acquaintances are limited to fellow classmates he knew well at school and to the people he meets in his own
department. Quite often he drifts completely away from his classmates and confines his after-hour friendships to co-workers. Once he has
done that he has become part of an interesting social pattern fairly prevalent here, a sort of tribal arrangement with
government departments substituted for tribes.

To elucidate, what is meant is that in Washington, employees of one department are very apt to maintain social relations
mostly with people in their own department. A young man in the NRA has three dates with young ladies in
the NRA for every date he has with outsiders. A young lady in the AAA, although she may often look
wistfully at the young men in the Department of Justice, is usually forced to accept her lot, which seems to
take the form of a steady diet of young AAA statisticians. Young men and women, limited in this manner, finally
begin to rationalize the limitation, and then to adopt it unconsciously as a policy. The AAA people have exclusive little
parties on holiday evenings, limited to people in some particular office. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation's personnel follows the same
trend, with a little informal picnic now and then. It's good for office morale though. When you see old J.
B. Grampus, head of your division, whom you had previously believed was not so much a man as a disembodied
roaring from an inner office, at the office’s Hallowe'en party, masquerading as A Sharp Rise In Prices, you feel that
never again will you tremble at that roaring. You almost feel like putting in overtime for old J. B.

Such office gatherings, however, cause clannishness between offices to increase. Each group begins to have its own secrets, its own
interests, and even its own terminology. In order for old J. B. to have come disguised as A Sharp Rise
In Prices, he had to assume a certain basis of understanding among the statisticians. Being statisticians steeped in the jargon
of the business, they immediately identified him for what he represented. On the other hand, if he had entered in
a costume symbolizing Supplementary Relief, the greatest confusion would have prevailed. But it would have been child’s play for an
FERA employee to label him correctly. Because ten to one the FERA man once used that idea himself, at a
party given by some member of the FERA staff!

After a year in Washington, the college man or woman begins to find himself behaving somewhat similarly. He falls into
the routine. In a vague way, he begins to wonder what sort of chaps work in some of the other
departments, just as a Harvard man often finds himself faintly curious as to what sort of chaps go to Princeton.
He suspects they may be perfectly all right but he isn’t quite sure. Occasionally, meeting an old classmate from another
department, they get to discussing the merits of their respective bureaus, the importance to society of the work done by
each. Smith of Harvard and the Resettlement Administration and Jones of Harvard and the TVA are cordial until inadvisedly Smith
happens to let drop the remark: “I see where the court reversed you fellows on the Dinklefogle case.” This happens
to be a sore spot with the TVA, and Jones reacts as if someone had thrown mud on the flag.
In a half hour they are calling each other names and each is sneering openly at the other fellow’s outfit.

The result is that Smith begins to look upon the Resettlement Administration as he once looked upon Harvard, and Jones
has the same feeling of loyalty to the TVA as Harvard once aroused in him. What happens? As an indirect
result, Smith will never feel quite right about meeting girls employed by the TVA, and Jones will be uncomfortable in
the presence of the Resettlement Administration’s young ladies. Potential romances are nipped in the bud and the buds are plowed
under, just because Smith happened to meet Jones the day after the decision was handed down in the Dinklefogle case.

Something will have to be done about this spirit of clannishness. A Committee of Inter-Departmental Social Relations will have to
be formed to promote understanding between the estranged Smiths and Joneses. The Smiths in one department will have to be
shown that the Joneses in another department are their equals, that chemically Smith and Jones are on a par, that
culturally they are on the same plane, that they must not allow prejudice to rule them.

DAVIDSON off the RECORD
By HAROLD SUGG

CLANKINGS FROM A COLD RADIATOR

A change of weather gives the season character; and already we have felt intermittent blasts that presage future cold weather.
The heat that slowly crept into the dormitories was cordially welcomed by a shivering Student Body. But tempest could not
prevent—nor could heat hold—the flight to Virginia. And this week, a dance: which should make hay for a columnist. It
should, but nobody bit a dog this week (although Harris did chase a cat in the Tavern) so there really
wasn't much news. Or else the dog kept his muzzle locked; not a bad idea.

CAVALIERS

Choice bits that stigma of age: Virginia was concluding and Harpo Harlan, wandering into one of the lodges, barely escaped
from a hotbox with his Phi Gam pin still on. “Sonny Boy” Allen quibbled with John Law and at the
Mary Baldwin fete, the Davidson Tux outshone diverse military uniforms from the hinterlands. CHEVALIERS: To the Charlotte Horse Show trotted
John Partridge, Tom Breeden, Mal Grimes and Cokey Branton, to complete their knowledge. Among others at Converse was Carlos Young,
which reminds of a joke about a shoe salesman.THE TOWN

Queerly enough, the past week's homage to Terpsichore produced no bird-in-the-cage. Have times changed? The SAE chapter in toto reverted
to snakes for the benefit of the Editor who, lately singing “Where is my wandering boy this week,” may have
lost someone besides The Davidsonian. This would be the prize snaking performance of the week had not Tricky Dave snaked
on himself. The Kappa hard time of it. Billy Hill and George Norfleet met every train and bus for five
hours straight and then learned that their dates came to the wrong town. Carl Zarlson and Howard Summerrell, slighted by
a delinquent bus, took a truck to arrive ten minutes before the changed plans. Sigs had a bus arrive. But
the coup-de-grace for the weekend was the gathering at the Tavern after the Informal, led by several prominents claiming press
immunity. Singing and buying silverware were in order. Full moon, perfect October weather: this set of dances was the prelude,
we hope, to a gay Homecoming.

RAMBLINGS

With Carolina demolishing Tennessee, the World Series concluded, and the Ethiopian controversy raging, spirit runs high on the campus. Cokey
and Henry Lyons, just coming out of hiding and Junior ROTC officers, who are Series advocates, are getting up earlier
so they can wear their new uniforms longer, expecting commissions from Haile Selassie. We may be dumb, plebian, or just
haven’t been around, but we have never seen “Yams” except on menus. Back in our Gopher Prairie, they are called
sweet potatoes. Davidson needs: Fortune and Vanity Fair at the Library, hymnbooks for first rows in the rear chapel section,
and rubber runners for the aisles. A freshman named Ammen finished last in the cake race. In English Thirteen, there
are enrolled a Snow and Frieze. She was just a Quarryman’s daughter and did she take a lot for granite?

CAMPUS PLUTOCRAT NO. ONE

In the interests of recovery, we shall submit each week an encouraging interview with a business power of the hill:
This week, none other than “Live Wire” Okey, the aerial magnate. Says Okey: “The aerial business is higher than ever.”
He entered the business to keep the freshman mortality rate down. Quoth Okey: “If your radio doth squeal and whistle;
so you can’t hear the Crazy Crystals; Chances be your aerial’s dopey; Call us up, we fix it, Okey.” Freshmen
may be a little bashful about coming to pep meetings but once they arrive, they go in for it in
a big way. Ye Calumnist was stranded for a few hours Friday night seven miles north of Charlotte but arrived
in time to see a Freshman without pants. “I gave them.”

COLLEGIATE RAMBLINGS

PAYING FROSH

Penn State (State College, Pa.) frosh are PAYING for the privilege of being rushed by fraternities this year! Contrary to
the time-worn tradition, the freshmen are being assessed a fee of fifty cents when they apply for date cards prior
to the opening of the rushing season. Non-payment of the fee results in deferment of pledging for thirty days—should the
yearling be asked to pledge. The fraternity coffers will profit to the extent of about $350 as a result of
the new method, which has been successfully used at the University of Michigan and the University of Wisconsin.

“DOOK”

After the Duke-W. & L. game, two “Dook” University boys fished a few alligators out of the ornate pool in
the Hotel Jefferson and proceeded to prod them up and down the stairs to the cheers of onlookers. Some others
ejected the colored elevator boy and put into effect their ideas about the proper way to operate the thing. One
ambitious lad decided that a little exercise would do him good. He wandered into the nearest bowling alley, and removing
his coat, challenged someone to a game. Slightly inebriated, he neglected to release his hold on the first ball and
was dragged the length of the alley on his stomach. Not in the least deterred by this rather awkward start,
he strutted back to the front of the establishment and belligerently seized another ball. This time he managed to let
go of the ball, but thrown off balance by the force of his delivery he ended up flat on his
back. Rather crestfallen, he sheepishly picked up his coat and slunk from the scene of his ungraceful demonstration. (Duke Chronicle).

DEBATORS

Debate teams representing Oxford and Cambridge Universities will arrive in New York on October 29, on the Berengaria for tours
sponsored by the National Students Federation. Approximately thirty engagements have been arranged for each team. Still in the offing, but
not yet definitely announced, is a trip for the debating team of the University of North Carolina to debate in
Europe. This tour will also be sponsored by the National Students Federation.

LUCKY ROOTERS

University of North Carolina students who attended the Carolina-Maryland football game were not charged with a probational cut. What luck!
Dancing lessons and contract bridge lessons are being sponsored by the directors of Graham Memorial at the University of North
Carolina. A freshman will have control of the dancing lessons. Last week, Carolina students gathered at Memorial Hall to commemorate
the 142nd year of the institution. President Frank P. Graham was the speaker for the occasion.

CAMPUS ETIQUETTE

New developments in campus etiquette as outlined by a dean of the University of Iowa. He thinks that students should
wait three minutes for an instructor to appear, five for an assistant professor, eight for an associate professor, and ten
for a full professor or dean. To which we amend: O. K.—if the faculty will do this: Allow the Freshmen
to be two minutes late, sophomores five minutes, juniors ten minutes, and seniors fifteen minutes.

COLLEGIANA

Woodrow Wilson's first honorary degree came to him from Wake Forest University in 1887. While President of Princeton, he received
honorary degrees from nine universities. Ten thousand students at a Los Angeles relief school are paid to attend school—docked if
they cut classes too. It is now impossible to get a college degree in Italy without proficiency in military science.
The average football suit weighs 34 pounds, which is about the weight of a trotting horse sulky. There was an
“almost” tragedy at Columbia University during fraternity “Hell Week.” Four pledges were sent to Bernard College and told to propose
to the first girls they saw—two accepted. Fraternities should watch rough stuff like that. Kyrl's famous Symphony Band will play
at Farmville Teachers College on October 18. Six days later, they will fill their engagement at Davidson College. A scientist
revives a frozen monkey and receives world-wide acclaim—college boys revive ‘Model T” Fords and think nothing of it. An honest
man is the noblest work of God.

“Compare The NEWS” From DAVIDSONIANS of Years Gone By

FIVE YEARS AGO

Plans for the first issue of “The Yowl” are going forward. W. C. Ragin is the first Editor. Wildcats to
meet Citadel Saturday. Dr. Harry Rimmer will speak at the Y. M. C. A. vespers Sunday. Dr. H. E. Kirk
to be heard by the student body as Ott's lecturer. Duke defeats Davidson 12-0 in a hard-fought battle. Wildkittens to
play Wofford. Homecoming announced as Oct. 25. Decathlon to be held next month. Enrollment reaches 622. Slight drop from the
previous year due to depression.

TEN YEARS AGO

Davidson defeats Guilford, 26-0. Wildcats to meet P. C. at Rock Hill Saturday. J. B. Duke dies in New York.
Davidson to receive two million dollars in stocks from his estate. ‘Kittens defeated 14-0 by High Point. Mr. J. B.
Johnson of Barium Springs talks at vespers. Frosh to meet P. C. Frosh this week. O. D. K. initiates nine
men. Wrestling practice to start soon. Mr. Tom Glasgow of Charlotte to speak at vespers. New R. O. T. C.
corporals are to be appointed soon.

FIFTEEN YEARS AGO

D. C. to meet Wake Forest in Charlotte on the sixteenth. Davidson downed by Georgia Tech, 66-0. W. P. Cumming
starts class in Jiu-Jitsu. Prospects bright for the Basketball team this year. A special train is being arranged to take
students to the Wake Forest game in Charlotte. Large amount of interest being shown in the Golf Team. Dr. E.
A. Byers leads “Y" vesper service. Dr. W. D. Weatherford to conduct the fall services.

THIS COLLEGIATE WORLD

(By Associated Collegiate Press)

The funniest campus incident we have heard this fall happened during the registration period at the University of Minnesota (Minneapolis).
Mr. Asher Christensen, a professor, was strolling past two long lines of freshmen. One line consisted of freshmen who planned
to be doctors and were registering for pre-medicine courses. The other line was filled with those about to enter pre-business
courses. A small voice from the end of the “pre-medicine line” piped a call to Mr. Christensen, “Hi, mister,” the
frosh said, “which is the longest line?” The professor considered. “I would say your line is about 25 feet longer,”
Christensen answered. “Okay,” the boy said, stepping out of the queue, “I’m a business man already.” And he registered for
pre-business!

Today we have very sad news for proprietors of restaurants near college campuses. It is beginning to look as if
fasting is a considerable aid to study. Drs. M. H. Elliott and W. C. Troat, Harvard University psychologists, have been
experimenting with rats and have attained results that indicate the animals respond with a conditioned reflex, the most elemental manifestation
of learning, twice as quickly when they are starved as when they have food in their stomachs. Even a tiny
bite of food cut down their aptitude considerably. Somewhat different studies on the same subject have recently been made at
Colgate University where Prof. Donald A. Lair tested groups of brain workers after light and heavy lunches. After light meals,
they were 8.6 percent faster in learning and made 25.3 percent fewer errors. The idea being that a big meal
draws too much blood to the stomach and produces temporary “brain anemia.”
