THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 25, 1935

Faculty Vacations Spent In Many States And In Europe

Several Teach at Davidson, Duke, and Elsewhere During Summer

THREE TRAVEL ABROAD

Others Visit Montreat and Resorts in the North

The Davidson College faculty seems to have had a very enjoyable vacation from the reports that have been received. Following
is a general summary of what each member of the faculty did during their summer vacation:

Prof. Bailey, recently appointed French professor, spent six weeks in the Davidson summer school with the latter part of the
summer spent near Cape Cod, N. H.

Prof. Blythe taught in the Davidson summer school and later went to a hospital in Charlotte where he had an
operation for sinus trouble.

Dr. Brown spent his vacation in Davidson devoting his time to study and work on his home.

Dr. Currie taught summer school at Davidson and then journeyed to the mountains of western North Carolina.

Dr. Douglas taught summer school for six weeks and later went to West Virginia. He then devoted his time to
study.

Prof. Foreman spent the month of June in New Haven, completing his work for the Ph.D. degree at Yale University.
July and August were spent off the coast of Maine.

Dr. Gwynn taught in the summer school at Duke University. Following that he delivered a series of ten lectures in
New Hampshire. The remainder of the summer was spent in study in colleges in the North and East.

Prof. Howard spent the greater part of June in Washington, D. C. The remainder of the summer was spent in
Virginia, Tennessee, and at Cornell University.

Prof. Johnston spent his summer at New Haven, Conn., where he continued his studies in History at Yale University.

Prof. Lilly devoted most of his summer vacation to study at the University of Chicago.

Prof. McGavock taught in the Davidson summer school and spent the remainder of his vacation in Tennessee.

Prof. Mebane spent the summer at Camp Carolina, in Brevard, N. C., where he was in charge of the wood
shop.

Prof. Minault has returned to Davidson from the sanatorium and will resume his duties next January.

Prof. Pfohl and wife were at the University of Michigan and in Ann Arbor, Michigan.

(Continued on page 6)

OVERCASH’S BARBER SHOP

For Those Who Want the Best

Rent A Car For the Week-End

M. P. HENDERSON

Gulf Gas and Oil

The rifle team is shot to pieces,” stated Major F. M. Cochran in a recent interview. For this reason a
rifle marksmanship contest has been announced, lasting from now until Thanksgiving. Due to the graduation of two senior marksmen, Bill
Simpson and Gordon Green, the failure of “Dune” Johnson to return to school, and “Judge” Cathey’s withdrawal from R.O.T.C., the
1936 prospects are not particularly “rosy.” This year’s rifle team will come from entirely new material. For this reason an
appeal has been made to the Student Body for its interest and support. All upperclassmen taking R.O.T.C. are eligible according
to Bill Quick, range manager. The range, located in the basement of the Armory building, will be open every night
from seven to eight-thirty o'clock. Competent instructors will be in charge at all times.

The contest rules are as follows: Time—any time before Thanksgiving; Course to be fired—ten shots from each of the five
positions; Regular issue .22 rifles to be used. First, second, and third prizes respectively are a gold medal, a silver
medal, and a bronze medal. Anyone interested in entering is requested to leave his name with Major Cochran.

Letters are awarded each year to riflemen who can fill the following specifications: a regular member of the rifle team;
a participant in at least 75% of the matches during the season; one of the highest five on the team
for 75% of the season; an upperclassman taking R.O.T.C.; and not guilty of carelessness on the range or destruction of
government property. The team will shoot several shoulder-to-shoulder matches, and several correspondence matches this year. The schedule has not been
completed as yet, but will be announced in The Davidsonian as soon as it is. The captain and manager of
the team have not been elected this year, but these will be chosen as soon as this competition is finished
and the new team selected.

Horine Attends School At Heidelberg Germany

E. F. Horine, class of '37, sailed for Germany today, where he will attend the University of Heidelberg. Horine, who
attended Davidson for the past two years, received this summer a scholarship to the University of Heidelberg, beginning in October
and terminating in August of the following year. Mr. Horine intends to spend only his junior year in Germany and
return to Davidson to graduate. Horine, who was taking his major in English, was very active in literary circles during
his two years at Davidson. He was a member of the Humenean Literary Society, Sigma Upsilon, and Eta Sigma Phi.
Horine’s address during the forthcoming year will be: I. I. Horine, Jr., care of the American Express Company, Heidelberg, Germany.

WANTED: Cows to milk in exchange for part board or cash. Yards cleaned also. Call or see William Telford, c/o
Mrs. Hamilton, Concord Road.

CINEMATIC COMMENTS

DAVIDSON THEATRE

Wednesday, Sept. 25

HERE COMES COOKIE

George Burns and Gracie Allen return to the screen in their characteristic roles of wise-cracking actors. The entire plot revolves
around Gracie and her inane actions. When you see this show you will probably be revolving also in a stupor
of silliness.

Thursday, Sept. 26

ANNA KARENINA

Here is Garbo's newest and perhaps finest picture. Superb photography aids Garbo in reaching new heights in Tolstoy's immortal novel.
Fredrick March co-stars.

Friday and Sat. Sept. 27-28

STEAMBOAT ROUND THE BEND

Will Rogers as a river boat captain becomes involved in a murder trial when his nephew-partner is accused. The picture
has exciting moments when Rogers races up the river to find a missing witness whose testimony will save his nephew.
Anne Shirley displays her screen personality as the picture’s sweetheart and Francis Ford is amusing as the drunken engineer.

Monday, Sept. 30

SMILING THROUGH

The picture producers are reshowing this favorite movie throughout the country because of popular demand. Norma Shearer and Fredrick March
co-star.

Tuesday, Oct. 1

TWO FOR TONIGHT

This is a musical bit with Bing Crosby and Joan Bennett, the sweethearts of Mississippi. It contains rollicking comedy with
Mary Boland.

Evening Programs To Replace Church

(Continued from Page 1)

Dr. McSween, alumnus of Davidson College, was former president of Presbyterian College at Clinton, S. C., and is now pastor
of Presbyterian Church at Chester, S. C. Professor Foreman chose as his text, “Thou shalt not steal.” Taking a scene
from Gilbert Chesterton's book, “Father Brown, Detective,” he showed that theft is theft whether committed by an individual or by
men who do it within the sanction of law. He stated that theft concerned everybody but to bring it home
to us he would change his text by adding words—"Thou shalt not steal from thyself.” A nation that throws away
its large natural resources steals from itself. He claimed that all of us are robbers in the fact that whether
we know it or not we are stealing from ourselves. One of the ways we rob ourselves is by slipshod
habits formed while we are in college. He stated that there are only some possessions we can steal from ourselves.
They are our self-respect, enjoyment of the beautiful things in this world, our health, our life that is the few
years we are really alive, our friends which we steal from ourselves by indifference and crabbiness, our happiness which can
be stolen by gossip and worry, but the most important and precious possession to us is Christ who can be
stolen from us only by ourselves through indifference and a hard heart.

The Sunday Vesper Services next to be conducted will be by Dr. Charles F. Myers, pastor of the First Presbyterian
Church in Greensboro, N. C. He is a very popular speaker and has addressed the Student body many times.

Over 100 Frosh Pledged by Nine Frats

(Continued from Page 1)

Charlotte; Charles Edwards, Charlotte; James Gamble, Lincolnton; Henry Hackney, Charlotte; John Irwin, Charlotte; Ned Morris, Concord; Alexander Smith, Elkin; Julian
Squires, Charlotte; Eddie Steere, Asheboro; James Terry, Peterstown, W. Va.; Charles Walters, Burlington; and David Warden, Johnson City, Tenn.

PI KAPPA ALPHA: W. H. Arnold, Jr., Atlanta, Ga.; Parker E. Edisto Island, S. C.; J. P. Henderson, Jr., Jacksonville;
J. S. Currie, Davidson; W. V. Kester, High Point; RolandLang. Farmville; J. A. Long, Statesville; D. R. McEachern, Jr., Concord;
D. MacMillan, Norfolk, Va.; J. S. Raynal, Statesville; Stanton Sherrod, High Point; T. J. Taper, Kinston; I. J. Webb, Jr.,
Charlotte.

KAPPA ALPHA: Bobby Abell, Jr., Chester, S.C.; Joe Calvin, Decatur, Ala.; Bob Downie, Little Rock, Ark.; Chas. Hines, Greensboro; Horace
Lutz, Hickory; Sam Newell, Dallas, Texas; Tom Parham, Oxford; James Pratt, Jr., Chatham Hill, Va.; Bill Preyer, Jr., Greensboro; J.
J. Summerell, Greenville; Richard Taylor, II, Oxford.

PI KAPPA PHI: Robert A. Burgess, Sumter, S.C.; Paul S. Cooper, Roanoke, Va.; Sinclair Adam Dewey, Pulaski, Va.; Stephen Fowler,
Washington; Robert Gish, Bluefield, W. Va.; Sam Hemphill, Marion; Richard Howie, Monroe; Hunt, Marion; Richard H. Washington, D.C.; Mack W.
Gastonia; Wain P.B. Roberson, Jr.; John Lindsey Little, Washington, D.C.; Stowe Jr., Belmont; Richard J. Towill, Batesburg.

SIGMA ALPHA EPSILON: Mark Cauble, Winston-Salem; Norman McCullough, Elizabethtown; Tom Dunn, Laurinburg; Bruce Edgerton, Orangeburg, S.C.; Alex Erwin, Laurinburg; J.
Robert Morance, Kilgore, Texas; Tom Hackney, Lake City, Fla.; Lem Kornegay, Rocky Mount; John Latimer, Washington, D.C.; Preston Merchant, Greenville,
S.C.; Bill Miller, Laurin; Wayne Patton, Livingston, Ala.; Sloan, New Whitlock, Charlotte; Frank Willingham, Macon.

KAPPA SIGMA: Hartesville, S.C.; Perry, Charlotte; Durham; Dorrah Purgerson, Louis; Hipp, Greensboro; Warren Gaw, Greensboro; Tom Henderson, Charlotte; Raymond Vittman,
Fayetteville; Henry Rankin, Gastonia; Dick Spencer, Rock Hill, S.C.; Fred Warren, Rocky Mount; Duddy Young, Shelby.

PHI GAMMA DELTA: Henry B. Baker, Greeneville, Tenn.; Edward Cage Brewer, Jr., Clarksdale, Miss.; Nesbitt Imore, Montgomery, Ala.; Robert Friend,
Petersburg, Va.; George Jones, Greensboro; Marion Lanier, Birmingham, Ala.; Kenneth Lawson, Harlan, Ky.; Eugene Lipfert, Winston-Salem; Miller, Tenn.; Decatur Rodgers,
Jr., Martinsburg, W. Va.; Jack Tillotson, Winston-Salem.

PHI DELTA THETA: Bill Beaty, Rock Hill, S.C.; Ovid Bell, Fulton, Mo.; Bill Boyd, Atlanta, Ga.; Luther Cleveland; John Chalk,
Rockingham; Reid Harmon, Jacksonville, Fla.; Jack Lee, Atlanta, Ga.; Mark Lillard, Jacksonville, Fla.; Arthur Moore, Rock Hill, S.C.; Albert Myers,
Rinehardt, Lincolnton.

SIGMA PHI EPSILON: Chiles Campbell, Larkin; Rutledge, Johnson City; Brown, Gastonia; Jim Lamar Burkin, Kan.; Kendall Campbell, Larkin, Kan.; John
Doty, Rogersville, Tenn.; Phillip Friberg, Waycross, Ga.; Jack Graves, Miami, Fla.; Walter Heilman, Greeneville, Tenn.; Walker Harper, Augusta, Ga.; Ned
Iverson, Miami, Fla.; Wilson Lowrance, Barium Springs; Rufus Plonk, Bessemer City; Chas Sample, Ft. Pierce, Fla.; James Sample, Ft. Pierce,
Fla.; Gordon Smith, Rocky Mount; Andy Turner, Orlando, Fla.; Hiram White, Rock Hill, S.C.; Terrell Porter, Waycross, Ga.

8-10—12-2:30—4

SAVE MONEY ON WEEK-ENDS
EAT AT THE LITTLE PEP SANDWICH SHOP
$6 MEAL TICKET FOR $5
OPEN ALL DAY DURING THE WEEK
SUNDAY HOURS: 1:30-7—Midnight

Davidson Theatre
MONDAY, SEPT. 30
TONIGHT AT 8:30
With George Burns and Gracie Allen

TUESDAY, OCT. 1
TWO FOR TONIGHT
With Bing Crosby and Joan Bennett

WEDNESDAY, SEPT. 25
HERE COMES COOKIE

THURSDAY, SEPT. 26
ANNA KARENINA
With Greta Garbo

FRIDAY AND SATURDAY, SEPT. 27-28
STEAMBOAT ROUND THE BEND
With Will Rogers, Anne Shirley

SMILING THROUGH
With Norma Shearer and Fredric March

Toon TATTLE
The Davidson Hi-Y held its first meeting of the year Thursday, Sept. 12. The officers during the coming year will
be John Withers, president; Lewis Parker, vice-president; Kenneth Pope, secretary; and James Mooney, treasurer.

Miss Elizabeth Shewmake, daughter of Prof. and Mrs. E. F. Shewmake, left last Thursday night for Cornell University where she
will enter as a sophomore. Miss Shewmake attended Davidson College her freshman year.

Miss Louise Lingle gave a tea Wednesday afternoon in honor of two of Davidson’s recent brides, Mrs. Grier Martin and
Mrs. Albert McClure.

The funeral services of Mr. Gray Lilly, an old resident of Davidson, were conducted at his home here Thursday afternoon
by Dr. E. M. Moffett and Rev. Elsie Myers. Burial services were held Friday afternoon at Mt. Carmel, Va., Mr.
Lilly’s boyhood home.

Miss Frances Worth, of New York City, has returned to her home after a several days visit with Miss Mary
Richards. Social affairs were given in her honor.

Europe Visited By Professors
(Continued from Page 1)
A few days were also spent in the Hardy country of Wessex, in Somerset, and finally in London. During the
three weeks’ stay there, the Bloods spent their time walking through Old London, the London of Dickens, Thackeray, and Johnson.
And then, as the Lingles did, they passed on to Scotland via Shakespeare’s birthplace. There they passed three pleasant weeks
in Edinburgh and Glasgow before returning to America.

Dr. T. W. Lingle, after an ocean voyage on the Normandie, spent the majority of his summer touring the lower
Baltic countries and various other parts of Europe.

Cole Windham Appointed Cadet Major
(Continued from Page 1)
Cadet 1st Sgt. J. I. Branch, Cadet Sgts. J. G. Anderson, F. A. Cathey, W. S. Edwards, B. R. Howell,
I. D. Johnson, E. L. Kuykendall, R. L. Robinson, E. D. Turner, J. C. Winn.

Band
Cadet Capt. Edwin C. Wooten; Cadet 2nd Lt. Edmund C. Johnson; Cadet 1st Sgt. E. M. Scott; Cadet Sgts. W.
D. Covington, R. H. Patterson, E. S. Poe, M. C. Sanford; Cadet Corporal and Drum Major J. W. Helms.

There are three hundred and eighty-two men registered for R.O.T.C. this year, which is about the same as last year.
Of these, 39 are Seniors, 41 are Juniors, 131 are Sophomores, and 174 are Freshmen. Major Siefert states that he
thinks Davidson is going forward, since in the army, nothing stands still and we certainly are not slipping back.

ROTC Officers Are Promoted
(Continued from Page 1)
the 172nd Infantry, then in Service, Lieutenant Colonel. After the Armistice was signed, he joined the Federal Army as was
transferred to the Army of Occupation and served in Germany until June 1919, when he returned to the States. He
remained in service at Camp Gordon, Ga. until Sept., 1920, when he accepted a commission in the regular army as
Captain. He had several army posts and then he was transferred to the Philippines where he served until Feb. 1928.
He was promoted to Major on Aug. 1, 1935. He is a graduate of the Infantry School at Fort Benning,
Ga. From there he came to Davidson.

Major Seifert entered the Regular Army as Captain on July 1, 1920. Before this, he had seen service in the
World War and in the Georgia National Guard, which he entered in June 1913. Since in the regular army, he
has served twice in the Panama Canal Zone with various organizations. He has been at Davidson for five years. He
is a graduate of the Company Officers course of the Infantry School, and the Tank School.

In an interview, Col. Rhett said that these appointments did not come as a surprise to the officers here, as
they thought they were due, because they had held the same grade in the army for the past fifteen years.

HELPS PREVENT MANY COLDS
Especially designed aid for nose and upper throat, where most colds start.
Regular Size ..30¢
Double Quantity 50¢
VICKS VA-TRO-NOL

M. H. GOODRUM & CO.
Groceries—Dry Goods
Hardware—Radio Supplies
PHILCO AND GRUNOW RADIOS

Since 1799 thousands of people after years of suffering from stomach troubles of all types, such as constipation, indigestion, gas,
and sour stomach which are the basic factors of such maladies as high blood pressure, rheumatism, periodic headaches, pimples on
face and body, pains in the back, liver, kidney and bladder disorder, exhaustion, loss of sleep and appetite. Those sufferers
have not used any man-made injurious chemicals or drugs of any kind; they have only used a remedy made by
Nature. This marvelous product grows on the highest mountain peaks, where it absorbs all the healing elements and Vitamins from
the sun to aid humanity in distress. It is composed of 19 kinds of natural leaves, seeds, berries and flowers
scientifically and proportionately mixed and is known as LION CROSS HERB TEA. LION CROSS HERB TEA tastes delicious, acts wonderfully
upon your system, and is safe even for children. Prepare it fresh like any ordinary tea and drink a glassful
once a day, hot or cold. A one dollar treatment accomplishes WONDERS; makes you look and feel like new born.
If you are not as yet familiar with the beneficial effects of this natural remedy LION CROSS HERB TEA try
it at once and convince yourself. If not satisfactory money refunded to you. Try it and convince yourself with our
money-back guarantee. One Week Treatment $1.00. Six Weeks Treatment $5.00. In order to avoid mistakes in getting the genuine LION
CROSS HERB TEA, please fill out the attached coupon.

Lio-Pharmacy, 1180 Second Ave., N.Y. City, N.Y.
Gentlemen: Enclosed find $... which please send me treatments of the famous LION CROSS HERB TEA.
NAME: ........................................
ADDRESS: .......................................
CITY: ............................................
STATE: ..........................................
