THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 2, 1935

The Davidsonian
Founded by the Class of 1915

1935 Member 1936
Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Printed by the QUEEN CITY PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate year.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879.

ARTICLES FOR PUBLICATION must be in the hands of Managing Editors by 4:00 o'clock p.m., Monday. Letters to the Editor are welcome, but all communications intended for publication must be signed.

EDITORIAL STAFF
Lamont Brown - Editor
R. P. Morrow, Jr. - Business Manager
Nim Morton - Managing Editor
Howett Overton - Managing Editor
Arnold E. Sommers - Managing Editor
Daymond Turner - Managing Editor
John Winn - Managing Editor
Stuart McKee - Managing Editor
Culver Smith - Managing Editor
Harry Kendall - Sports Editor
Martin Barnett - Associate Editor
Harvey Glass - Associate Editor
Art Toevs - Associate Editor
Tom Marchant - Associate Editor
John Walker - Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
Charles Mauze - Circulation Manager
Bill Wood - Circulation Manager
Bob Vance - Circulation Manager
Joe Robinson - Advertising Manager
Bill Overcarsh - Collection Manager
Bill Godfrey - Assistant Business Manager

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 2, 1935

Our doubts are traitors and make us lose the good we oft might win, by fearing to attempt—Shakespeare.

LOCK YOUR DOOR!
There is the story of a Roman emperor who ordered a servant to repeat in his presence each day, “Carthage must be destroyed.” Carthage was destroyed, which fact leads us to hope that if the statement, “Lock your door!” is hurled at you often enough, it will be heeded.

No one can doubt that in any group of six or seven hundred, there are weak members. We believe that in the Davidson Student Body, the number of such weak members is at a minimum; nevertheless, we are forced to admit that they do exist. Further, we consider it the duty of the rest of us to help these men in every way possible. The first and most important way is to remove completely all temptation from their way. Thus, removing temptation by the locking of doors may be considered a moral obligation of each Davidson student.

True, keeping one’s door locked involves a slight bit of trouble, since keys are often difficult objects with which to keep up, but we know of no other act which is more worthy of the trouble it involves. This plea will not be the last, but we are confident that many more will not be necessary. We reiterate, Lock your door!—C. C.

TO GROW OR NOT TO GROW...
We would like to commend very highly the stand taken by the editor of the Alumni Journal in regard to limiting enrollment. For the past several years we have heard that “Davidson does not want any more students” and that next year the “enrollment will be limited to six hundred and fifty.” During the depths of depression, there was little difficulty in keeping the number of matriculations down. But for the past three years, the student body has steadily increased in size, and this in spite of the fact that there has been no lowering of entrance requirements and many were turned away.

It is a recognized fact that our physical equipment has failed to keep pace with growth along other lines and is inadequate for even six hundred and fifty students. Witness the need of a new church, new and larger gymnasium, new library, infirmary, science building, and additional dormitory space—needs so real and vital that the administration not only recognizes them but is attempting to fill them.

When the graduate school was discontinued, it was decided to make Davidson one of the best small colleges in the country. It was felt that a greatly increased size would impair those distinctive qualities which have already gained for her leadership in her field, which makes her so different from the other schools of her class.

Many believed that the high entrance requirements would obviate the necessity of limiting the enrollment to any hard and fast number. But apparently, either these requirements must be substantially raised or a very definite numerical limit must be fixed, if past standards are to be maintained. We are inclined to agree with the editor of the Journal that six hundred and fifty is the ideal number, as conditions now stand, and will probably remain that for years to come. The tuition fee covers very little of the actual cost of a student’s year at Davidson, so, barring increased endowment, there would be very little economic reason for greater numbers.

REVOTE DESIRED...
Last Thursday the student body selected the weekend of the Davidson-Virginia football game as the one during which they would be charged with only single cuts from classes. Since that time the Wake Forest contest, which was originally scheduled for Charlotte, has been moved to the campus of the Baptist institution.

In view of this fact, it seems that the students should be allowed to revote on the question. I feel sure that many members of the student body would rather attend the Davidson-Wake Forest game, which would be much less expensive and considerably more interesting to everyone than the Virginia fray. Wake Forest has for a number of years held one of the four most prominent places on the Davidson football card, and this year with probably the most formidable grid aggregation they have had at the Baptist institution in several seasons, Davidson's team will need all of the support possible to defeat them at Wake Forest on Thanksgiving Day.

So, through loyalty to your team and for your own benefit and pleasure, if you are given the opportunity of a revote, select the Wake Forest game, and help the Wildcats upset all dope sheets by finishing the 1935 football season at least one place above the last position in the Big-Five conference.

BOARD TOO HIGH...
Far be it from us to argue in thundering terms or cases, and it is equally not our intention to greatly disturb the quiet deference that usually characterizes college newspaper editorials. But we may faintly suggest that the organization of the Davidson Boarding House Association for the purpose of stabilizing the prices of board is a flat violation of an anti-trust law we read about somewhere. Which fact we dismiss as negligible, since if there were no association the ladies might, by telephone and Ladies’ Aid gatherings, effect verbal agreements.

However, the fact still annoys us and conjures up dreams of the advantages of a Union Dining Hall, as other Big Five colleges possess. But what we positively, loudly and longly object to is the duality in the price of breakfast. It is 10c and 25c for the same breakfast at the same boarding house. One quarter is the rate for breakfast separately, per day and for a period of thirty days. Yet if one wishes to eat only two meals at the same boarding house, only $3.00 is subtracted from the fee. Dividing Three Dollars by thirty we get ten cents. Showing that one so doing is gypped of fifteen cents per day. Which reminds us of a recent brilliant sermon on not stealing.

We have no objections to a boarding house making a living and we sympathize with them in their thankless task of feeding college boys. But we ask a rearrangement of prices so as to deduct fairly for breakfast. The minimum justice we deserve is a deduction of Five Dollars on a Twenty-five dollar board bill. And even that would leave us dispossessed of Two and one-half dollars for the landladies to lay at the feet of that ravenous deity, Overhead.—H. S.

COLLEGIATE RAMBLINGS

COMPARISON...
A record enrollment of 1950 is expected this year at N. C. State with 650 as freshmen—Davidson College has only 650 in the entire Student Body... According to The Technician, cheers and yells for the State-Davidson football game were taught during R. O. T. C. drills.

CUT SYSTEM...
With the firm belief that “undergraduates are expected to attend all their scheduled university exercises,” Princeton University has installed a new system to control class attendance in the undergraduate school. Class attendance is now voluntary so long as the student maintains a sufficiently high scholastic average to merit this responsibility. Under the old system of cuts, the undergraduate was allowed eighteen absences during the school year.

CAPT. PRITCHETT...
Captain Norton G. Pritchett, former director of Davidson College athletics, has assumed his duties as director of the department of inter-collegiate athletics and physical education at the University of Virginia. Capt. Pritchett accepted this position the latter part of the second semester of last year, while he was working at Davidson.

DAVIDSON off the RECORD
By HAROLD SUGG

THE WILES OF THE BIG CITY
The football game as an American institution has firmly entrenched itself. For color, spirit and conflict of emotion there is no other modern spectacle comparable. This was evident last Saturday night. It might be considered a part of American Culture; it represents a splendid range of American feeling: from the anxious mother who watches her son on the field, from the spirit of the players, the technique of the announcers and sports-writers, to the grovelling befuddlement who makes a special request for fur-lined gutters.

Be that as it may, Bill Good—State College sports’ editor—scribbled in his column last week, “I'm picking State to beat the Wildcats by four touchdowns and a couple of extra points.” Well, well. It seems that the ’Cats are pursued by a 7 point State jinx-sky.

EXODUS
Crammed in busses, cars and trucks—by rail and thumb, some 250 undergraduates managed their way to the Gate City. And many stayed over in the same sardine-packed fashion at the O'Henry, King Cotton, Y. M. C. A. and residences. Ken Fryfogle regrets one fatal step. He accidentally walked into a room occupied by State supporters and received a sample of the same stuff dished out on the field, only this time without a referee. He's still limping.

TEA-HOUNDS
Every man to his own choice. And about half of the Kappa Alpha chapter, led by Chesterfields Gladden, Vance and Mauze, took their 4 o’clock tea at Greensboro College. There was singing, piano and violin solos. And punch. The football team was invited. Those present who were not KA’s were Carlos Young, Sam Cothran, Dennis Myers, Pete McKnight and Billy Crooks. Just a bunch of tea-hounds. Maybe that’s the reason why a piano has been moved intothe Watts’ parlor. Or perhaps the Watts’ football team wants to take morning exercises to music while training for the Georgia game. Or perhaps Watts is going in for folk-dancing.

FORLORN SHOT
The two buses replete with G. C. and N. C. fems on the way to their campus while hundreds of good Davidson boys were running wild in the city. Reg Harris with Mary Lib Saunders and Tom Marchant with a campus power cheered the schools somewhat. Other prowlers were John Mosely, Gordon Smith, Don Stewart, and Bill Yelverton. We saw the reason Jim Morton has been receiving telegrams and also “Mokey” Faison with one of the better-lookers.

MEDITATIONS OF A MONK
Dave, “Herman the Hermit,” Sellars led the small contingency that stayed home. Herman says that he is going to start the year off right by staying on the campus. Until Oct. 10. Herman—reckless Don Juan—staged a party of his own. He went to the show and saw it twice. But even that wasn’t mean enough for Herman. He smoked a cigarette.

WORRIES OF A COLUMNIST
Will the Kappa Sigs love Skinny Stevens with one leg as they do with two? What conglomeration of factors caused Frank Tucker to cut classes two days straight? What local Beta couldn’t get in his own National Convention? Why is Harpo Harlan known as “Precious” in Greensboro?

FIRST HOORAYS
Band selections at football games... Joe Dees’ cheerleading... New Church system... Nonchalant Paul Pittman... Drum Majors.

BOOS:
Whistling organ accompanists in Chapel.

POT-POURRI
As futile as a request to the Executive Committee. As numerous as freshmen with new pipes... As necessary as a pair of white shoes... Rabbits in Georgia. Baxter Yarborough describing the elegant Sedgefield as “some dinky roadhouse where the football players ate.”... Pi Kappa Phi football hero who endorses a complexion soap and buys six cakes... We saw why Frank Purdy played such a good game Saturday.

AROUND WASHINGTON
The Davidsonian today presents the first in a series of regular weekly columns on Washington news of particular interest to collegians written especially for this paper by the regular Washington correspondent of the Associated Collegiate Press and Collegiate Digest.

By ARNOLD SERWER (Associated Collegiate Press Correspondent)
Washington, D. C.—Previous to 1932, before the New Dealers came into this town, the words “Government employee” conjured up in the mind of the average citizen a picture of a thin, middle-aged or even elderly person, bent over a desk in some Washington office, filling in endless forms at a snail’s pace. Washington itself was pictured as a town full of such clerkly people, plus Senators with black Stetsons, and a few Cherokees in to see the Great White Father. At that, Mr. Average Citizen wasn't so far wrong. The national capital was something like that. But the New Deal has changed things here considerably, and Washington's Mummy Epoch has been superseded by the Children’s Hour, comparatively speaking. At least, some of the oldsters think of it as the Children’s Hour. Stronghold after stronghold of the old-timers has fallen into the hands of young folks just out of college. The Treasury Department, the Department of Labor, the Department of Commerce, the Department of Agriculture, have had their dignity severely jolted by the influx of Brain Trusters, Junior Braintrusters, and their various apprentices and disciples.

The Department of Labor is an outstanding example. Once its Bureau of Labor statistics had as personnel a great many elderly, slow-moving people but now if you were to drop around you would find a considerable sprinkling of youthful statisticians, out of college only a few years, plus a number of ex-instructors, and quite a few attractive young ladies doing stenographic work whom you might rightly suspect got out of Bandorsnatch’s Bon-Ton Business Institute just a few weeks ago. The New Deal with their predilection for young college graduates, have in many cases infected the old line agencies, departments and bureaus under whose jurisdiction some of them come, with the same virus. Tugwell, hired score upon score of young economists, statisticians, lawyers, minor executives, and accountants, not to mention stenographers, clerks, and typists. No matter how small the school you come from, it’s a safe bet that you could muster at least a corporal’s guard of alumni and alumnae of the same school, from among the employees of the AAA. A good many of them are now getting into the older divisions of the Department of Agriculture. As for the NRA, well, before the Supreme Court said, “Thou Shalt Not Place Code,” it was the Harvard-Columbia-Princeton-Dartmouth-Michigan-Tulane-Amherst-Siwash-and what have you-club all rolled into one. The wide corridors of the Commerce Building were filled with sharp-looking Phi Betes conversing earnestly with each other about open prices, code violations, labor policies, and whether or not the Scrap Iron and Steel Institute's Code should have clause 13, section 4, stricken out in fairness to manufacturers of bobby pins. Now that the Blue Eagle has lost its tail feathers many of the young folks have left the NRA, but close scrutiny discloses that they are now with the AAA, the Resettlement Administration, the NYA, the FERA, or the WPA. The last three agencies named probably have the highest percentage of recent college graduates on their payrolls, of all the New Deal bureaus. Columbia, Wisconsin, and Michigan alumni seem to account for the greatest part of this group of college people.

The effect on the town as a whole has been marked. A walk along Pennsylvania Avenue at noon or in the evening, in the compass of a few blocks, turns up dozens of university people. F street, the city’s principal shopping thoroughfare, displays in its store windows far more clothing meant for under thirty than ever before. The cocktail lounges of 14th and 16th streets, the restaurants of Connecticut Avenue, are filled with young Government lawyers, economists, stenographers, and secretaries. Gazing about idly, Joe Smith of Oregon U. discovers the presence of Joe P. Smith of Oregon U. and rushes over to shake his hand. They discover they've both been working in Washington for Uncle Sam for over a year, and neither knew the other was in town. There are so many of them in from so many colleges that one can easily miss meeting an old classmate for months on end. University groups have formed, some meeting regularly, others informally for lunch. Over the table they talk of many things, about the WPA allotment to Texas, about a girl they knew back on the campus, about a survey they expect to have a hand in when their bureau starts it going, about the superiority of Washington’s mint juleps to that sulphuric acid they drank at the Cornell-Penn game back in 1931. They’re apt to be clannish at times, especially when overtaken by nostalgia. But more often they mix readily, Columbia with Dartmouth, Williams with Amherst. Traditional college rivalries go by the board in Washington. Most of them like the town. The presence of so many other young people, the academic atmosphere that hovers faintly in the air, (every time an important Congressman belabors the Brain Trust, or the Supreme Court frowns at the New Deal, it becomes fainter) the physical resemblance of the capital with its parks and acres of greensward to a campus, all these things contribute to making B.A.’s and M.A.’s and Ph.D.’s feel very much at home. In their off hours they swarm over the tennis courts and pack the swimming pools, fill the picture houses and crowd the concerts. Every third girl among them looks like last year’s Prom Queen, and possibly is. The shops that rent bicycles, including tandems, report a boom in their business. At night, rollerskating happily around the Lincoln Memorial, one finds Mr. Gainsborough who during the day is a busy and earnest young attorney over at the Department of Justice. And meanwhile, the government clerk of yesteryear, a very Throttlebottomish individual, continues to work on in Washington, daily seeing the young folks moving in and the old folks retiring, with the whole life of Washington getting new impetus from these lively youngsters. He only hopes, that if he decides to take a walk some evening after dark, down Constitution Avenue, he will be able to avoid being run over more than twice by some of these youngsters on their rented bicycles.

Dr. Vowles Writes on Books Germans Select
In the May issue of “The German Quarterly,” published by the Association of German Teachers of America, there appeared an article by Dr. G. R. Vowles of Davidson College, entitled “What Do the Germans Read?” The article was an analysis by nationalities of the “Book-of-the-Month” Club of Hamburg, Germany, for a period of seven years. The number of English, American, French, Russian, Scandinavian and other authors represented among the eighty-four books listed was indicated. Dr. Vowles’ paper was discussed and quoted in “The Saturday Review of Literature” under the date of July 20, 1935. Dr. Vowles is to be congratulated on the success of his paper and its achievement of such national notice. For the past ten years Dr. Vowles has ably served Davidson College as Professor of German Language and Literature.

“Compare The NEWS” From DAVIDSONIANS of Years Gone By
FIVE YEARS AGO—
‘Cats defeat State 12-0 at Greensboro in first night game... Work on humor magazine is started... Freshmen open season with Oak Ridge Cadets Friday afternoon... Dr. Lacy, Union Seminary President, to begin fall services on Sunday, October 5... Davidson Band has best material in many years... New string quartet is being organized... Reports have been secured on seventy 1930 graduates. Language teachers hold meeting here... Kuykendall and Gorman chosen by student body to lead cheers.

TEN YEARS AGO—
Victory over Wofford precedes clash with Baptists... One hundred candidates try out for Glee Club... Six fraternities perfect definite plans for individual houses on Concord Road. “Quips and Cranks” staff plans larger yearbook with H. L. Shaw editor-in-chief... Manhood is theme of forceful talk at vespers by famous orator. Magazine editors plan first issue. Many improvements on college golf course as a result of the splendid efforts of Dr. Arbuckle. Slavedriver puts freshmen laborers through tasks...

FIFTEEN YEARS AGO—
Wildcats bow before brawn of North Carolina State in hard-fought game... Real work begins in literary societies... Professor E. J. Erwin returns to his Alma Mater... Sophs defeat Fresh in annual baseball classic... Prof. J. M. Wilson brings message to students... Davidson to meet Generals on Virginia soil.