THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 17, 1935

Rev. John A. Redhead Talks At Y.M.C.A. Vesper Service

Tampa Pastor Speaks On Sin In First Meetings Of Spring Series

MANY ATTEND SERVICES

Two Musical Selections Featured On Program

The Rev. J. A. Redhead, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Tampa, Florida, was the guest speaker at the
Y.M.C.A. vesper service last Sunday evening, April 14. The Rev. Redhead took as his text a part of the third
verse of the sixty-fifth Psalm, “Iniquities prevail against me.” He retranslated this quotation into his own words, “My sin is
greater than I.” He undertook to disprove what he called “a present-day theory that we could sin and get away
with it,” explaining that we no longer have any distinction between right and wrong. The questions of right and wrong
that were once looked upon as black or white have degenerated into a sort of gray.

Then he proceeded to show two ways in which it can be seen that we do not get away with
sin. First, although the world might not find us out in our sin, the sense of guilt in the presence
of God will bring upon us such a terrible remorse that we are broken under it. Our sin is greater
than we ourselves are. Next, Rev. Redhead gives us illustrations showing that although we might even fool ourselves and not
be affected a great deal by our sins, others suffer for them, or as a result of them. He explained,
however, that in death, justice will be dealt out to all; those who suffered for our sins will receive rewards
of heaven, while the sinner will receive the rewards of hell. Not the hell we prefer to visualize today, but
the fiery hell depicted by Jonathan Edwards, with the sinner writhing in its torments. Lastly, he pointed out the fact
that even though our sins may be so much greater than our own wills and strength, Christ and His forgiveness,
offered by His death, is even greater than these.

Special features of the program were two musical selections. The first, immediately after the organ prelude, was the selection, “Day
Is Dying in the West,” sung by a quartet composed of Warren Babcock, Charles Ramseur, Kenneth Scott, and D. B.
Burns. The other, a solo, “A Clean Heart,” was sung by Mrs. Vowles. The services were conducted by Albert McClure,
secretary of the Y.M.C.A., who introduced the speaker and read for the scripture of the evening the sixty-fifth Psalm. Prayers
were made by Bob Smith and Harvey Glass. This service was the second of the series at which Rev. Redhead
will speak during the first part of the week. This series is known as the Davidson Y.M.C.A. Spring Services.

Wilson Angel Will Sing In Concert Next Tues.

Wilson Angel, bass, native North Carolinian, will conclude the Davidson College concert series with a voice recital to be given
Tuesday, April 23. Mr. Angel, a youthful but finished musician, was born in Winston-Salem and attended the Winston-Salem High School.
In 1931, he was awarded five thousand dollars as winner of the National Atwater Kent Audition Concert held annually. For
the past two years, Wilson Angel has been studying in New York City and taking various parts in Broadway productions
on the side.

The program will be as follows: “Clouds” and “Sweet Song of Long Ago,” by Ernest Charles; “Shoes,” by Kathleen Manning;
“The Trumpeter,” by Airlie Dix; “Als Die Alte Mutter,” by Dvorak; “Sapphische Ode,” Brahms; “Nur wer die Sehnsucht Kennt,” Tchaikovsky;
“Erlkonig,” Schubert; “Lungi dal caro bene,” by Secchi; “O Nuit d'Amour” (from Messaline), de Lara; “Le Cor,” Flegier; “My Wish
For You,” by Jessie Wise; “Sweet Little Jesus Boy,” Robert MacGimsey; “Nichavo,” by Mana-Zucca. Mrs. J. C. Pfohl will accompany
Wilson Angel.

Mr. Edward Snead, who is teaching in the Garner High School, was a weekend guest of Prof. and Mrs. H.
E. Fulcher.

Students Are Spending Much More On Stamps

Davidson students have spent 11,207 more of their pennies the past season on letters, postcards, and papers than they did
during the March Quarter of last year. Not only did the quarter show an increase, but there was a 10%
increase for the year 1934. The Postal Department also shows an increase of over 30% in the value of money
orders, as business takes a slight boom.

The Postmaster stated that an effort is being made to secure an early morning mail, which will arrive about 7:45
A.M. by either bus or train. This will be put up in time for the students to get their sugar
reports and home-town gazettes on their way from breakfast, that is, those who manage to crawl out that early each
morning. This added delivery will not only speed up the mails, but it will do away with much of the
delay and congestion that has been present in the post office in the past.

Dr. Cumming Talks On Group Honors Courses

Dr. W. P. Cumming made an announcement in chapel Thursday concerning the Honors Course offered at Davidson. This system is
based on the Oxford University system and is becoming increasingly popular in colleges and universities throughout the United States. The
reason the Honors Course has not been as popular before is because students have not known about it. Students taking
this course are on their own instead of being pushed by a professor, and really have to do much harder
work to make the grade. Students today like this course because they are serious-minded students, and are willing to work,
rather than the college play-boy of yesterday. They work and learn things for themselves instead of being spoon-fed by a
professor.

Subject to the approval of the professors concerned, the eight following groups may be open to students who desire to
be candidates for group honors: Group 1—Greek, Latin, and Ancient History; Group 2—Modern Language; Group 3—English; Group 4—Mathematics, Physics, Astronomy;
Group 5—Natural Sciences other than Physics; Group 6—History, Economics, Government, Business Administration; Group 7—Philosophy, Psychology, Education; and Group 8—Bible, and
Religious Education. It shall be left to the professors in a subject as to whether honors shall be offered in
that subject or not. Any student who during his freshman year has averaged B, or better, and B plus, or
better, during his sophomore year up to and including the mid-semester grades of the second semester, may apply to the
dean of the faculty for permission to be a candidate for an honors group course. His application shall be accompanied
by the recommendation of the professors of the group in which he is to major. In order to continue an
honors course, the student must maintain an average of B plus in non-honors classes and must have completed all the
work of the first three years before entering upon his senior year.

The Davidson Music Club met Tuesday evening, April 9, in the Civic League Hall. Mrs. George B. Watts was in
charge of the program, which consisted of German and Scandinavian folk music. After several group numbers, Mrs. J. C. Pfohl
presented piano selections from Brahms. The current events were given by Mrs. T. W. Lingle.

The Tuesday Club met April 2, with Miss Letitia Currie. Mrs. Price Gwynn gave a paper on the literature and
music of North Carolina.

Mr. and Mrs. Hugh Hawkins, of Charlottesville, Va., were guests during the weekend of Mr. and Mrs. Cloyd Goodrum.

The fourth grade of the Davidson High School, of which Miss Bonnie Shelton is the teacher, gave an interesting program
Saturday morning, April 13. The program was given to raise the necessary funds for new music books.

Mr. and Mrs. Harry Elliott, former residents of Davidson and now of Winston-Salem, spent Sunday with Mr. and Mrs. W.
E. Jetton.

The regular meeting of the Civic League was held Tuesday afternoon in the Civic League Hall, with Mrs. W. R.
Grey presiding. Routine business was transacted and Mrs. George Withers, chairman of the Town Improvement Committee, gave her report.

Mrs. H. E. Fulcher was hostess to the Twentieth Century Club Friday afternoon, April 12. Mrs. J. C. Pfohl gave
a report on the program for the coming year. Mrs. O. J. Thies, of Charlotte, who is a guest of
Prof. and Mrs. Thies, was also present.An out-of-town visitor, Miss Mary Black, is visiting her sister, Miss Ellen Black, of
New York City. She will also visit friends in Massachusetts. Although the majority of the schools within the state have
an eight-month year, the Davidson High School will have a nine-month year due to the practice teaching of the Davidson
College education classes. The members of the graduating class are: Miles Abernathy, Robert Archer, Albert Britt, Frank Carter, James Currie,
Dalmain Creighton, David Hoyle, Peter Metcalf, William Pope, Dailey Pratt, Sam Thompson, William Withers, Lucile Ballard, Ila Brown, Mildred Cashion,
Lois Cassady, Emily Goodrum, Sarah Hovis, Merle Knox, Inez Nance, Rebecca Woodfin.

Prof. and Mrs. A. C. Currie and daughter, Lucie Martin, attended the funeral of Prof. Currie’s brother, James W. Currie,
dean of the Raeford bar, at Raeford Sunday afternoon, April 14.

Chemistry Fraternity Elects Wartman Pres.
At a meeting of Gamma Sigma Epsilon, honorary chemistry fraternity, held on Tuesday, April 9, officers for next year were
elected. The results are as follows: President, Bill Wartman; treasurer, Hervey Ross; secretary, Martin Barnett; and sergeant-at-arms, Phifer Erwin. Four
new members were initiated during the course of the meeting. They were: Gordon Greene and Heath Howie of the Senior
class, and Carlton Chapman and Phifer Erwin of the Junior class. Plans were discussed for an open meeting to be
held in the near future.

WARNER BROS. BROADWAY
Return Engagement By Request
Clark Gable
Claudette Colbert
“It Happened One Night”
Al JOLSON
Ruby KEELER
Opening Easter Sunday Midnight at 12:01 A.M.
Together for the first time in “GO INTO YOUR DANCE”
100’s of Chorus Beauties and
GLENDA FARRELL
PATSY KELLY
HELEN MORGAN
A First National Picture

LIBRARY MAKES NEW ADDITIONS
Novels, Histories, And Biographies Are Among New Books At Library
The library has recently acquired a number of new books. Among the most interesting of these are:
House of Earth—Pearl S. Buck. A remarkably realistic study of Chinese life, and befitting successor to Miss Buck’s other works,
The Good Earth, Sons, and A House Divided.
A Man Called Cervantes—Bruno Frank. A biographical novel and a novel biography of the author of Don Quixote; the first
of Frank's works to be published in the United States. Mr. Frank is an European author of note; born at
Stuttgart, Germany; educated at Munich, Leipzig, Strassburg, and Tubingen, and now living in exile at Sanary in the south of
France.
The Doctor in History—Howard W. Haggard. A history of medicine starting with the days of the dinosaur and coming down
to the present day, including accounts of the work of the early medicine man, of Imhotep, Aesculapius, Vesalius, Galen, Lister,
and Pasteur.
C. P. Scott of The Manchester Guardian—J. L. Hammond. A biography of the world-famed editor of The Manchester Guardian, whose
influence and power is revealed by his correspondence with men like Dillon, Lord Rosebery, John Morley, Lord Bryce, Sir Edward
Grey, and Colonel House.
Your Country at War—Charles A. Lindbergh, Sr. A book presenting the socialistic principles of the former Congressman from Minnesota, and
proving him to be a prophet before his time.
American Universities and Colleges—edited by John Henry Mac Cracken. Facts, figures, and data, condensed and presented in systematic form, concerning
higher education in America.
Big Problems on Little Shoulders—Carl Renz, M.D., and Mildred Paul Renz. Dr. Renz, a renowned psychiatrist, brings to this book
the fruit of years of practice among children, in collaboration with his wife, a psychologist of note, endowed with a
rare understanding of children.
Florian, the Emperor's Stallion—Felix Salten. The story of a horse whose pedigree dated back to the time of Hannibal, born
a short time before the World War on one of the stud farms of the Hapsburgs, who became lead horse
for the emperor's coach, but after the war a mere hack horse. A study of pre- and post-war Austria.
American Diplomacy During the World War—Charles Seymour.
History of Mathematics in America Before 1900—David Eugene Smith and Jekuthiel Ginsburg.
Made in Germany—Susan Smith. An account of the decorative arts of Germany.

(Continued on Page 6, Col. 1)

Brother Of Prof. Currie Dies Friday
James Wharey Currie Succumbs Suddenly To Heart Attack In Raeford
Mr. James Wharey Currie, brother of Prof. Archibald Currie, professor of economics and political science at Davidson College, died suddenly
of a heart attack on Friday night, April 8, at his home in Raeford, N. C. Mr. James Currie graduated
from Davidson in 1904, and returned three years later to obtain his M. A. degree in the class of ‘07.
He attended the Law School of the University of Virginia where he received his Bachelor of Law degree. He had
been a lawyer at Raeford for the past 20 years, acting for a while as county attorney. Dr. Watson Fairley,
pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Raeford, conducted the funeral services on Sunday afternoon, April 10. Surviving Mr. Currie
are his wife, Mrs. Ruth Gordon Currie, two children, James and Ellen, and his two brothers, Archibald Currie of Davidson,
and T. K. Currie of Richmond.

African Curios Are On View In Local Exhibit
An African exhibit is on display in the library, in Room 1. The exhibit was loaned to the college by
Rev. Palmer Smith, Southern Presbyterian missionary to the Congo, who is spending part of his furlough in Davidson. This collection
of Africana will be on exhibit through the rest of this week. Among the interesting items of the collection are:
A monkey's skin, a piece of Manioc from which starch is made, a fetich for the neck which protects the
wearer from disease, a snake skin, a leopard skin, a native musical instrument, a wooden snuff mill, some native woods
with African inscriptions, hatchets, spear heads, short swords and daggers, samples of native weaving, a native song book and other
literature, a bow and several poisoned arrows.

Jockey Shorts
TRADE MARK FOR MEN
Designed by introducing comfort and support. Jockey Shorts and Shirts afford the utmost in comfort for work, play or dress.
A mild support. A new idea. It's daring! It's sensible priced at 47c each.
Men’s Shop—Street Floor
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

Among the GREEKS
BETA THETA PI
A district reunion was held on the campus this past weekend, and nine visiting delegates attended from North Carolina and
Virginia. A banquet was held Saturday night in Charlotte as a conclusion to the meeting.

PI KAPPA ALPHA
A party will be given the last of this month which will be in the form of an informal feed.
Those attending will be from Davidson and the surrounding towns. Henry Daniels and James Hurst visited the chapter over the
weekend for the Bowery Ball.

SIGMA ALPHA EPSILON
George Weeks, Rocky Mount, visited the house over the past weekend. The seniors are planning a house party soon which
will probably take place this weekend or the next.

PHI GAMMA DELTA
Lawrence Reid, Elmore Holt, Abbot Whitney and Joe McNabb, accompanied by Dr. T. W. Lingle, went to Chapel Hill to
attend initiation ceremonies and afterwards a pig dinner was held.

SIGMA PHI EPSILON
Ed Sneed, Garner; Lee Taylor, Oxford; “Yank” Yancey, Oxford; Mr. and Mrs. Hugh Hawkins, Charlottesville, Va.; and Charlie Gold visited
the house over the past weekend. The Davidson chapter is having the house re-fitted with new furniture.

Concert Band To Play During Easter Vespers
The Davidson College Concert Band will give an Easter vesper service, sponsored by the Davidson Y. M. C. A., in
front of the Richardson Stadium, weather permitting, at 4 o'clock in the afternoon of Sunday, April 21. The public is
cordially invited to attend; special invitations are extended to the churches of Davidson, Cornelius, and Mooresville. The program is as
follows: the “Coronation March,” from “The Prophet,” by Meyerbeer; Invocation; Hymn, “Come Thou Almighty King”; Scripture; Chorales: “Ride On, Ride
On in Majesty,” by Wolle, “Passion Chorale,” by Bach, and “World Farewell,” by Bach; Scripture; “Easter Anthem,” by Dudley Buck;
“Gloria,” by Bordese; “Largo,” from Dvorak's “New World Symphony”; “Hallelujah Chorus,” from Handel's opera Xerxes; and lastly, the Benediction. It
is the hope of the Y. M. C. A. and the Musical Department that Easter services will in time grow
to be as well and as traditional as the famous Davidson Christmas service held every year in Chambers.
