OTT’S LECTURE TO BEGIN SUNDAY; DR. SPEER IS SPEAKER

The Davidsonian

ALENODA LU xX UB! ORTA LIBERTAS

DRIVE FOR “Y” GIFT FUND FOR MISSIONS BEGINS NEXT MONTH

VOL. XXIII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., NOVEMBER 27, 1935 NUMBER 9

MACK W. LITTLE MEETS DEATH BY ACCIDENT AS RESULT OF Gastonia Freshman Killed In Watts Dormitory While Cleaning Weapon

DEATH SHOCKS CAMPUS

Funeral Held Last Friday Afternoon In Gastonia

Tragedy cast a pall over the Davidson campus for the second time this year when Mack Wilson Little, of the freshman class, died here early Thursday afternoon by an accidental shot from a pistol held by Oren Moore, Jr. Little, with three other freshmen, had gone to Moore’s room on the fourth floor of Watts Dormitory immediately after lunch, and was engaged in cleaning and looking at a .38 calibre automatic pistol belonging to Moore. The latter states that he thought the weapon was not loaded, as he had the cartridge magazine in his pocket. The bullet struck Little’s left side and went through his heart. He died at 1:25 P. M., a few minutes after the accident occurred.

Authorities completely exonerated Moore, a sophomore, and son of Dr. Oren Moore, Davidson alumnus and prominent Charlotte physician. Dr. W. L. Lingle, president of the college, stated that no disciplinary action was contemplated against Moore for possession of the pistol, but that a committee had been appointed to investigate the affair. He cited a college regulation forbidding students to keep firearms in their rooms and added that a copy of this regulation is posted in every dormitory room.

A graduate of Gastonia high school, Little was taking pre-medical work here and was pledged to Pi Kappa Phi social fraternity. He is survived by his father who is a Gastonia merchant, his mother, who is a school teacher, and a younger sister. The funeral services were held in the First Associate Reformed Presbyterian Church of Gastonia at four o'clock Friday afternoon, November 22, with Rev. Dr. Ernest N. Orr, pastor of the Associated Reformed Presbyterian Tabernacle of Charlotte, officiating and Dr. Walter L. Lingle, president of the college, assisting. The pall-bearers were: Mack Sanders and H. C. Jackson, of Gastonia; and Henry Rankin, John Wharton, Jim Wilson, and John Willis, from Davidson. A number of representatives from the Davidson student body and faculty attended.

Homecoming Is Held at Barium Game, Banquet Planned For Thanksgiving Program At Barium Springs

Barium Springs, “Davidson's little brother,” will observe its homecoming on November 30, next Saturday. The feature of the occasion will be the football game Saturday afternoon at 3:00, when the Barium eleven will tangle with Coach Rosie McMillan’s Lumberton team. Special interest will mark the conflict because of the fact that McMillan was formerly coach of the Barium gridders. The Barium team averages less than 140 pounds, and has been out-weighed by its opponents in every game of the season by not less than fifteen pounds.

At 11 o'clock the Barium Springs Glee Club will present a program in the chapel, and at 12:15 the alumni banquet will be held, followed by a business discussion. This discussion will be under the direction of Mr. R. E. Jackson, President of the Alumni Association, and Miss Hilda Bernado, is secretary. An idea of the importance of this institution to Davidson College can be gotten from a consideration of the fact that no Wildcat team since 1928 has failed to include a representative from Barium Springs. Officials at the game on Saturday will be Davidson’s Newton, McEver, and Chapman, the Charlotte News’ Wade Ison.

PISTOL SHOT STUDENT KILLED

GIFT FUND WILL GO TO MISSIONS

“Y” Cabinet Votes To Donate Christmas Fund To Rev. Charles W. Worth

The Y.M.C.A. Cabinet voted, at a recent meeting, to have the Christmas Gift Fund given to foreign missions this year. The fund will be given to Charles W. Worth, a former Davidson man, and now a mission worker in China. Rev. Worth will address the Davidson student body at chapel exercises on December 10th and 11th. He will also present slide pictures giving his views of work in China at prayer meeting Wednesday night December 11. All students are cordially invited to attend this meeting.

Rev. Worth carries on a very useful work in his territory. He is the only missionary to several hundred thousand people in a new section which has never before been introduced to the Christian religion. His duties include both evangelistic and medical work, although a definite organization has not yet been effected. He does regular missionary work besides his medical work which he carries on in another section.

While at Davidson, Mr. Worth was president of his class his junior year and a member of O.D.K. He was also a member of Alpha Kappa social fraternity. He holds an A.B. degree from Davidson and a B.D. degree from the Union Theological Seminary in Richmond, Va. Since his graduation he has been engaged in missionary work in China except for one year which he spent as pastor of a Church.

Fluorescent Minerals Displayed In Museum

A display of fluorescence is the most novel and yet one of the most interesting things in the college museum, located on the second floor of the north wing of Chambers. Fluorescence is a peculiar property of certain minerals by which they shine in ultra-violet light. A cabinet containing eighteen kinds of minerals which have been collected from various states on the Atlantic seaboard, Sicily, England, and Canada, is lighted with ordinary electric lamps and also with argon bulbs which produce ultra-violet light. The ordinary lamps allow one to see the ordinary appearance of the minerals, while the argon bulbs show their fluorescence. The mineral in which a color change is most noticeable is wernerite, which came from Quebec, Canada. Under light this mineral appears to be a pale green rock with a few gray spots. Under the violet light the green turns to a canary yellow and the gray to a rich purple.

ROTC OFFICERS

Brown, Mann, Downie, Taber, Purnell Decorated At Special Ceremony

ALL SENIOR OFFICERS Announce Plans For Flag And Individual Trophies

At a special parade on Monday, November 25, six officers of the Davidson ROTC battalion became members of Scabbard and Blade, Davidson military organization. They were: Cadet First Lieutenants W. L. Brown, C. L. Mann, T. E. Downie, W. R. Taber, R. C. Sours, and Cadet Second Lieutenant L. T. Purnell. At parade the newly appointed members marched forward to the reviewing stand where they were decorated by “Cokey” Branton and Henry Cathey. These six men are all senior officers in the battalion and were chosen because they showed qualities of leadership and military efficiency. The officers who are already members of Scabbard and Blade are: W. M. Archer, M. J. Barnett, W. C. Branton, A. L. Bulwinkle, H. I. Cathey, D. B. Griffin, W. W. Hassell, J. M. Hodgin, R. P. Morrow, J. Tate, W. M. Taylor, O. L. Windham, and W. W. Wooten. At the last meeting of this organization they began making plans to (Continued on Page 5)

Dean Announces Dates Of Christmas Holidays

Christmas holidays will start Thursday, December 19, at noon, and will continue until Friday, January 3, according to an announcement made Monday morning by Dr. M. E. Sentelle, Dean. Double cuts will be given before and after the holiday for all absences from Sunday, December 15, until holidays actually begin, and from Friday, January 3, through Saturday, January 4. The present system of a two-week holiday with double cuts before and after was worked out, succeeding the former system of a one-week holiday with single cuts.

MASQUERS GIVE THREE-ACT PLAY

Wade Barrow And Mrs. Grier Martin Take Leads In Mystery Melodrama

DEES STARS AS THUG BLACK

Herring, Pierce, And Prof. Erwin Direct Production

“Whistling In The Dark", a production which enjoyed a long New York run some years ago, was presented by the Red and Black Masquers in Chambers Auditorium last night, Tuesday, Nov. 26. In this production, the lead part of the author, Wallace Porter, who is a small, intelligent, but timid looking fellow, was taken by Wade Barrow. The entire feminine lead of Porter's fiancee, a gay young thing who is quite snobby, was played by Mrs. Grier Martin. The scene of the play is in the living room of a gangster hang-out. In the first act, Porter and his fiancee are house-hunting for a large and quiet home in the country. In their quest, they stumble into this gangster abode, where they are quite amiably received by the thugs, who merely want to get rid of them. Wally’s tongue is loosened by their hospitality, and he boasts of his proficiency in writing mystery fiction, and of his ability to concoct the “perfect crime.” At this the gangsters immediately sit up and take notice, and their boss, “Jake” Dillon, formulates a plan. Dillon, a deadly sinister man, used to being obeyed, is played by Joe Dees. “The Boss” locks the couple in and instructs Porter to plot a clueless murder to be executed against the Crime Commissioner, Mr. McFarren. If Wally doesn’t “come through,” well, “the boss” will fix that.

During most of this act, Dillon is surrounded by his sinister-looking accomplices. Slim, a slender, nervous, intelligent, but thoroughly unpleasant gangster is played by A. T. Port. Fitz-Hugh Dade takes the role of Herman, better known as “Herman,” a Jewish type, who is in the“dope business.” “Salty” Peters takes the part of Charlie Shaw, a small, evil-looking thug, whom Jake uses for his “dirty work.” Hilda, the half-wit maid, is played (Continued on Page 6)

Amendment Is Discussed By President Of Student Body
Change Is Intended To Cut Down On Unnecessary And Disturbing Noises

What effect will the proposed amendment to the constitution of the Student Body have on me? This is a question which is being asked on the campus every day. We have called on C. B. Chapman, President of the Student Body, to explain the purpose and history of, and the results that may be expected from the proposed constitutional amendment.

“The purpose of the amendment is not to be carried to unreasonable lengths. It is not intended to cut down on talking and the other necessary noises of campus life; but it is the object of the plan to eliminate noises which not only disturb many students, but which also disturb people in the surrounding community.

“The sole purpose of the amendment is the reasonable control of noise. It will cause very little, if any, changes as far as the average student is concerned.

“One of the chief aims of the present student Government since its inauguration has been the elimination of unnecessary noises during study hours. The proposed amendment was worked out after much discussion and was approved unanimously by the Student Council at the regular meeting of November 11. The amendment was presented in the last issue of the Davidsonian and read in chapel the next day. Following the procedure authorized in the constitution of the Student Body, the amendment is being allowed to ‘lie on the table’ for ten days after being read; it will then be voted on by the Student Body.

“This plan was worked out by students alone and directly for the benefit of the Student Body as a whole. The responsibility for executing the plan rests solely on the Student Council and not on the representatives to be appointed on each hall. Representatives will be appointed purely for the convenience of the members of each hall, and it is to be emphasized that the function of these representatives is certainly not that of a watchman or monitor. They will merely receive complaints and refer them to the Student Council.

“The council is not proposing a new idea; similar systems are being used in some of the most advanced universities of our time.

“A man desiring to render a complaint will take his complaint to his hall representative, who in turn will refer the complaint to the Student Council Committee. This Committee will be composed of three members of the Student Council; and it will be the duty of this group to investigate complaints.

“If it finds the complaints well founded, it will request the offender to be more considerate in his actions. Second complaints against the same offender will result in a Student Council investigation. Only in extreme cases will the Council see fit to remove a student from the dormitories. It is the hope and expectation of the Council that it will never become necessary for this measure to be taken, since the reception of the system promises to be whole-hearted.”

DR. R. E. SPEER TO GIVE OTT’S LECTURES SERIES STARTING WITH VESPERS

Edwards Omitted From Debate List

Wilbur Edwards’ name was unintentionally omitted from the list of newly chosen members of the debating team printed in the last issue of THE DAVIDSONIAN. The following six men were picked for the varsity team in the debating try-outs: Wade Boggs, Wilbur Edwards, Tyler Port, James Salango, Robert Stewart, and Harold Sugg. Paul Harlan, Hill Ross, and Charles Mauze were selected as alternates. Wilbur Edwards is a member of Beta Theta Pi social fraternity, and Alpha Phi Epsilon, honorary forensic fraternity. He is now on the Student Council.

SOPHS PREPARE FOR DANCE SET
Jelly Leftwich’s Orchestra Engaged To Play For Annual Dances

The Sophomore Dance Committee has announced plans for their annual dances on the fourteenth and fifteenth of December. Jelly Leftwich and his orchestra have been secured to furnish the music for these dances. Kay Keever will be featured as torch singer. This orchestra has been playing at recent engagements in northern cities and is also on the Shell Program.

A dance figure is being planned, which promises to be a novelty arrangement in this line. All of the men on the committee in charge of the dance, as well as one other man from each fraternity and four non-fraternity men will take part in the figure. These men are: “Booby” Arrowsmith, Mac Brittain, Charles Brown, Ralph Chandler, “Sky” Cline, Sam Cothran, Billie Battle, Crayton Willard, Dickson Yates, “Chubby” King, Martin Lafferty, Harry Lyons, Bob Leonard, Harry Maclaughlin, Gilbert Palmer, Lawrence Reid, Harold Smith, “Tiger” Terry, and Dick Vowles. A number of fraternities have not chosen their representatives at the time of this publication.

There will be three dances, all of which will be held in the Charlotte Armory. These will be: Friday night formal, from nine until one o'clock; Saturday night informal, from eight-thirty until twelve o'clock. The Armory will be decorated in the (Continued on Page 5)

Swords Are Displayed In Library Showcases

Featured in the exhibit in the library showcases are some swords that Dr. Cumming has arranged. Lying on an attractive background of embroidered Japanese cloth are two Japanese swords, a French sword, and a dirk. A typical Ainu sword is remarkable for the beauty of the carving on handle and case. The Ainu are the aboriginal people of Japan, and it is surprising that such an uncivilized group would create such an artistic weapon. The sword was bought fifty years ago by Dr. C. K. Cumming, father of Dr. Cumming. The other Japanese sword is approximately four hundred ninety-five years old. It is an example of the work of Daruma Masamune, a Mikado supporter. A secondary defense sword of the sixteenth or seventeenth century is also on display. It is in the main room of the first floor. This display can be seen with the others.

Ross, Thies And Howard Attend Gamma Sigma Epsilon Convention In Alabama

Three men from Davidson, Dr. Ross, Dr. Thies, and Herbert Howard attended the Convention of Gamma Sigma Epsilon, honorary chemistry fraternity, at the University of Alabama in Tuscaloosa last week-end. This was the eighth biennial convention to be held by this national fraternity which was founded at Davidson in 1919. The two professors and Ross, who was the official delegate of the Alpha Alpha Chapter, left the campus Thursday night, November 21.

The Convention started Friday morning with the meeting of the National Grand Council. A luncheon was given at noon for all the delegates, and in the afternoon the officers of the National Grand Council made their reports. The Glee Club of the University of Alabama gave a concert in the evening.

The activities on Saturday morning included reports from each of the chapters on their activities for the past two years. One of the most important activities of the convention, that of electing officers of the National Grand Council for the next two years, was performed Saturday afternoon. Davidson was honored by having two men on this body. The list of the new officers is as follows: National Grand Alchemist, Dr. J. P. Montgomery of the University of Alabama; (Continued on Page 6)