THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 23, 1935

Davidsonians in Scholarship Trial
(Continued from Page 1)

his own resources. A third year may be awarded to men who make an outstanding record at the University. To
keep one of these Scholarships, the Scholar must maintain a high scholastic average. The Scholar may take up study in
any field he chooses, but at the present time there is a larger group taking law than any other study.
These scholarships were given by Cecil Rhodes to promote world peace and understanding. At present, they are open to the
English-speaking world and to Germany. Rhodes had dreamed of doing something like this for years, and when he died, he
left a million pounds, the interest on which was to be used to provide these scholarships. They have had a
considerable influence on modern college education.

There have been six Rhodes Scholars appointed from Davidson College. These are given as follows, with the year: 1907, Lacy,
now president of Union Theological Seminary, and W. P. Mills, missionary to China; 1919, S. T. McCloy, on faculty at
Duke University; 1920, R. F. Davidson; 1930, Dean Rusk, now at Mills College, Oakland, Cal. Three have been appointed from
South Carolina, two from North Carolina, and one from Arkansas.

The basis of selection as expressed by Mr. Rhodes in his will are as follows: (1) Literary and scholastic attainments.
(2) Qualities of manhood, truth, courage, devotion to duty, sympathy, kindness, unselfishness, and fellowship. (3) Exhibition of moral force of
character and of instincts to lead and to take an interest in his schoolmates. (4) Physical vigor, as shown by
interest in outdoor sports or in other ways. The first two of these are the most important.

The conditions that determine eligibility of a candidate are as follows: (1) He must be a male citizen of the
United States, with at least five years’ domicile and unmarried. (2) By the 1st of October of the year for
which he is elected, he must have passed his nineteenth and not have passed his twenty-fifth birthday. (3) By the
1st of October of the year for which he is elected, he must have completed at least his Sophomore year
at some recognized degree-granting university or college of the United States of America. The candidate may either apply from the
state in which his home is located or the state in which he has received at least two years of
college education.

Dr. G. R. Vowles is chairman of the Rhodes Scholarship committee at Davidson, and Professor F. Campbell, Duke University, Durham,
N.C., is chairman of the North Carolina Rhodes Scholarship committee. Examinations are held by the state and District committees, but
they interview the candidates to determine their personal qualities and other things, such as their character.

Three Davidson Men Attend Press Ekklesia at Chicago
(Continued from Page 1)

Professor Kenneth E. Olson, director of the Rutgers Journalism, and Prosser Mort, financial adviser to the University of Minnesota, held
a discussion on “Financing the College Newspaper” in the Tropical Room of the Lamont Club. The delegates attended a discussion
on the Editorial Page at three in the afternoon in the Celtic Room, led by Kenneth E. Olson. On Saturday
morning, the delegates were privileged to hear a talk given by Leland Paris in the Grand Ball Room of the
Medinah Club. The Convention was adjourned at noon Saturday and the Davidson representatives left that afternoon. Many of the meeting
and discussion groups were scheduled for the same hour, consequently, the delegates were unable to be present for all of
them. However, they pronounced it a very successful and profitable convention.

Council Elects New Officers
(Continued from Page 1)

The president of each honorary fraternity shall act as its council representative, unless the honorary fraternity sees fit, for suitable
reasons, to elect a representative separate from the president. No active honorary fraternity shall be unrepresented on the Council.

ARTICLE II
The Council shall meet at least once a month, and as many additional times as may be necessary. The first
meeting of each year shall take place on a date not later than three weeks after the opening of school
in the fall.

ARTICLE III
Each honorary fraternity shall elect its representative to the council by May 10th of each year. Further, it shall be
the duty of the president of the old Council to call a meeting of the new Council after its election,
and before the beginning of the spring term examination period, for the purpose of electing a president of the new
Council. At this meeting, a vice-president and a secretary shall also be elected.

ARTICLE IV
It shall be the duty of the president of the Council to preside at all meetings of the Council. Further,
he must see to theenforcement of the meeting dates as set by the Council and shall see to the enforcement
of all by-laws in general. He shall not fail to call a meeting of the Council before the end of
the third (3rd) week after the opening of school, each year.

ARTICLE V

No honorary fraternity may be established on the Davidson campus until the approval of the Council has been obtained. On
application by a new fraternity, the Council shall investigate thoroughly the need for, and the plausibility of, having such an
honorary fraternity on the campus. Should the Council deem the establishment of such an honorary fraternity unwise, it shall be
its right and duty to refuse the application of said fraternity.

ARTICLE VI

At its first meeting, the Council shall set meeting dates for each honorary fraternity, either bi-monthly, or monthly, as the
particular fraternity may desire. These meeting dates must be accepted tentatively by each representative, for his particular fraternity, and submitted,
at the first meeting of the fraternity, for its approval. Should the fraternity desire a different date, it must submit,
through its representative, a request to the Council, which shall then investigate the request, and affirm or refuse it.

ARTICLE VII

No honorary fraternity shall fail to meet at least once a month during the regular session, unless granted such privilege
by the Council. Nor shall any fraternity fail to conduct regular programs in line with its particular field, with the
exception of those whose nature renders a program unnecessary—namely, Phi Beta Kappa, Omicron Delta Kappa, and Sigma Delta Psi. At
the monthly meeting of the Council, each honorary fraternity representative shall tender a report concerning the honorary fraternity’s activities for
the month. This report shall consist of (a) a resume of the program (brief), and (b) a report on the
number of members present.

ARTICLE VIII

No honorary fraternity shall conduct more than two (2) biddings of new men in a school year.

ARTICLE IX

Any honorary fraternity contracting debts, and not making provision therefor, shall be subject to Council discipline.

Dr. Walcott to Speak Nov. 1st

(Continued from Page 1)

has been general editor of Source Books in the History of the Sciences since 1924. Many of his articles have
appeared in scientific and philosophical magazines. This lecture is intended for those who have not made a special study of
philosophy and will be of interest to all. It will be simple, non-technical, and full of life and detail. Everybody
is cordially invited to attend and there will be no admission charge.

Phi Beta Kappa Bids This Week

(Continued from Page 1)

“PD” Club, Scabbard and Blade, and Gamma Sigma Epsilon, honorary fraternities. J. M. Walker, of Charlotte, is director of the
Boy’s Work Department of the Y.M.C.A. Cabinet. He is also a member of Eta Phi, classical fraternity. J. H. Ross,
of Michoacan, Mexico, belongs to Delta Phi Alpha, Sigma Upsilon, Pi Delta Alpha, and Gamma Sigma Epsilon honorary societies. He
is also a violinist in the salon orchestra. C. B. Chapman, of Talladega, Ala., a member of Delta Theta Phi
social fraternity, is president of the student body. He belongs to the following honorary groups: Eta Sigma Phi, Omicron Delta
Kappa, Sigma Upsilon, Eta Sigma Phi, Gamma Sigma Epsilon, I.R.C., and Pi Delta Alpha. I. M. Toole, also of Talladega,
is a member of Eta Sigma Phi, classical, and Gamma Sigma Epsilon, chemical, societies. C. G. Smith, of Rocky Mount,
is a pledge in Sigma Phi Epsilon, social fraternity, and a member of Eta Sigma Phi and Pi Delta Alpha
honoraries. He is also college gymnastic champion. A. L. Bulwinkle, of Gastonia, is a captain in the local R.O.T.C. unit
and a member of Scabbard and Blade. He belongs to Beta Theta Pi, social, and Delta Phi Alpha, honorary society.
Davidson, the University of North Carolina, and Duke are the only institutions in the state possessing chapters of this fraternity.
Twenty-six members of the faculty belong to Phi Beta Kappa.

Matches Reach Closing Rounds

(Continued from Page 4)

Northcross, 6-3, 8-6; Johnson d. Bill Preyer, 6-0, 6-3; Wesley Coghill d. Tom Dunn, 10-8, 4-6, 6-4; Lawson d. Oscar
Armstrong, 6-1, 3-6, 6-4; Fred Warren d. Ned Morris, 7-5, 6-1; Sloan d. Bill Marquess, 6-2, 7-5; Robinson d. Sam
Hemphill, 6-0, 8-6; White d. Tom Abbott (default).

Quarter Finals

Johnson d. Pittman, 6-2, 7-5; Lawson d. Coghill, 6-1, 6-0; Sloan d. Warren, 6-4, 6-0; and White d. Robinson, 8-6,
6-3.

STOP AT PARKER-GARDNER CO.
West Trade Street, Charlotte, N. C.
AND HEAR ALL THE LATEST PHONOGRAPH RECORDS

Commencement Invitations
Fraternity Publications
1143 E. FOURTH ST.
Lamont Brown Fine Printing
QUEEN CITY PRINTING CO.
Representatives
Visiting Cards
Personal and Fraternity Stationery
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

R. P. Morrow for the New York Herald had for his subject “The American Press.” The meeting was

1935, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.
Mildness for Better Taste
