FORENSIC TRYOUT WILL BE HELD ON NOVEMBER 15

The Davidsonian

A LENDA LU xX UB I ORTA LIBERTAS

HOMECOMING WAS BIG SUCCESS: A HAPPY MEMORY

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., NOVEMBER 13, 1935

NUMBER 7

Six-Man Varsity Team and Three Alternates To Be Chosen From Twenty

SIX VETERANS RETURN

Question On Right Of Congress Over Supreme Court

About twenty student aspirants to forensic honors will gather at 7:30, next Friday, Nov. 15, in the Eumenian Literary Society Hall, to try out for the varsity debating team. The question is: Resolved: That Congress should be permitted by a two-thirds majority to overrule any five-four decision of the Supreme Court, declaring a law unconstitutional.

Those trying out are: Wade Boggs, Fitzhugh Dade, Wilbur Edwards, Paul Harlan, Heywood Hill, Hector McGeachy, E. J. Mack, Torrey McLean, Charles Mauze, William Rader, James Salango, Gibson Smith, Robert Stewart, Tyler Port, and Harold Sugg. Of these aspirants, those on last year’s team were Wade Boggs, Tyler Port, James Salango, and Harold Sugg, as regulars; and Wilbur Edwards and Paul Harlan, as alternates. Last year was the first year of intercollegiate debating for these regulars.

Freshman try-outs will be held during the second week of December. All freshmen are urged to attend varsity try-outs in order to familiarize themselves with the methods and procedure.

The judges will be headed by Dr. C. K. Brown, chairman of the faculty committee on debating. Other judges will be Prof. E. J. Erwin, Prof. E. A. Beatty, Dr. W. P. Cumming, and Prof. Archibald Currie. In the try-outs, each speaker will be allotted five minutes to develop any one or two points on either side. Six regulars and three alternates will be picked for the varsity team.

Debates tentatively arranged for the southern tour are with the University of South Carolina and the University of Miami. Others are also being considered. On the western tour, the Davidson group will meet Sewanee, University of West Virginia, and Washington and Lee. In the North, a tentative debate has been arranged with Swarthmore and others are being considered. Of these debates already arranged, those with Washington and Lee and University of South Carolina are to be held in Davidson.

‘Whistling In The Dark’ To Be Presented Soon

“If work continues at its present rate, the play ‘Whistling in the Dark’ will be presented on the night of November 25,” said David Herring, president of the Red and Black Masquers. The play is being directed by Dave Herring and W. F. Pierce and is under the supervision of Professor E. J. Erwin. The stage managers are Earl Clark and Dunlap Covington.

Although the beginning of this play has been reviewed in the Davidsonian before, the ending has been carefully guarded. The directors will only make such statements as the following: “We can't tell you how Mr. Porter extricates himself from his predicament, but you've never seen it done this way before.”

The predicament, as revealed by the directors, is this: Wally Porter, a crime novelist, and his fiancée, Toby Van Buren, find themselves in the hands of a group of gangsters, who threaten them with death if Wally cannot concoct a fool-proof way to murder the Crime Commissioner. The clever plot which this writer conceives, which he promises will leave no clue, and the series of events which follow in quick succession are well worth seeing.

The cast includes the following characters: Wally Porter (acted by W. H. Barrow)—obviously well-bred, intelligent looking, but timid; Joe Salvatore (J. Y. Wilson)—dull as to wits but very reliable; Slim (A. T. Port)—slender, nervous, fairly intelligent but a thoroughly unpleasant gangster; Herman (H. F. (Continued on Page 3)

“HOWDY, HOW’S THE WIFE?”

Above is a familiar scene showing the meeting of old friends on the Homecoming Day which featured the Davidson-Duke football game, an alumni luncheon, a band concert, and a set of dances in Charlotte. This year’s Homecoming was hailed as the most successful in years.

Port, Sugg, and Walker Read Papers Before Literary Fraternity

Sigma Upsilon, national honorary literary fraternity, heard papers read by A. T. Port, Harold Sugg, and J. M. Walker when it met last Monday night at the S. A. E. fraternity house. The meeting was accompanied by a “feed” which the society has at each of its meetings. Port's paper gave an analysis of war; Walker’s was on the appreciation of opera; and Sugg read three papers, two of which, Frustration and Bye Baby Bunting, appear in the Freshman Number of The Yowl. All of these men are new members of Sigma Upsilon, having been bid this fall.

A much-postponed initiation of the so- (Continued on Page 3)

New Gym Resounds To Cries For Devil Blood

The gala Homecoming weekend was officially started Friday night, the eighth, with an impressive pep meeting in the Alumni Gymnasium. Cheerleader Joe Dees introduced two new yells in honor of the occasion. The “Beat Duke” moan was popular, but the general consensus of opinion was that the split stands yell was too complicated for the doubtful intelligence of the average freshman. Freshmen stomped on the floor instead. At the end of the meeting cough drops were distributed. Said cheerleader Dees, “Five hundred free boxes of cough drops were distributed.” Cough drops were Beech-nut free samples—new brand.

Main features of the meeting were speeches by grads Harley Branch, ’27; Bill McCallie, '25; and P. G. (Duke) Billy Ravenel, ’35. Speakers were received with enthusiasm and applauded with wild shouting, yelling, and clapping. Annual photographers took snaps by flash of the assembled notables which included alumni and girls.

Head Cheerleader Joe Dees expressed the opinion that we would win our next two games by a large score if the student body turned out with the same fever pitch enthusiasm at the next two pep meetings like they so loyally did at this meeting. Instigating the eager students to even greater heights and fanning the spark of hope into a roaring conflagration of Wildcat determination, the cheerleaders Johnny Allen, Ken Knorr, Salty Peters, and Gene Vogler exhibited powers of inspiration which the former pep meetings have not brought forth.

Many Grads Return To Old Scenes For Gala Homecoming Celebrations

SIGMA UPSILON

Duke-Davidson Game Is Feature Entertainment Of a Successful Program

BAND GIVES CONCERT

Davidson’s 1910 Championship Football Team Has Reunion

A record crowd of Alumni returned to the Davidson Campus last weekend to make Saturday, November ninth, the most successful Homecoming day in the history of the school. The feature entertainment of the day was the Davidson-Duke football game on Richardson field at two-thirty, when the scrapping Wildcats defeated the Blue Devils by a score of 26-7. The program also contained a concert, a luncheon, and a set of dances.

The Davidson concert band, under the direction of J. C. Pfohl, gave a concert at 11:45 in honor of the Alumni. Following this, about three hundred Alumni attended an informal luncheon in the banquet hall. Hugh Query, Gastonia, president of the Alumni Association, was toastmaster at the luncheon. Following a greeting from President Walter Lingle, the assembled heard talks by a number of former students. H. Smith Richardson, former president of the Alumni Association, Harllee Branch, Atlanta attorney, Joe McConnell, New York lawyer, Abe Lincoln, Col. Don Scott, Graham, Rev. W. A. Nicholson, Pineville, John McSween, Chester, S. C., and Scott Candler, Mayor of Decatur, Ga., and others spoke on the program.

Featuring the exercises was the reunion of the 1910 football team which won Davidson's first state championship. The squad, holding its twenty-fifth reunion, was honored at the luncheon and at the game. During the game the 1910 squad sat on the players’ bench.

The Davidson Band pulled many tricks between the halves of the game. They

NC.C.P.A. MEETS AT DURHAM FOR PRESS CONCLAVE

North Carolina Collegiate Press Association Holds Three-Day Convention

HENRY DWIRE SPEAKS

Business Session Held After Day Of Entertainment

The North Carolina Collegiate Press Association held a three-day convention at Duke University last weekend. Registration was held at the Washington Duke Hotel Thursday afternoon from two until five o'clock. That night the delegates heard an organ recital by Palmer Christian in the beautiful Duke Chapel.

Friday morning, at the first session, committees were appointed, and then Dr. Cutter, State head of the N. Y. A., addressed the association requesting support from the publications for the work which he heads. This meeting was held at the Men's Union. That afternoon, a tea was given on the East Duke Campus for all of the delegates. Friday night, a banquet was held at the Washington Duke hotel, at which Lamont Brown presided. Rev. Mathis, pastor of the Trinity Presbyterian Church, pronounced the invocation, after which the Duke University Quartette sang several numbers. Mr. Frank Pierson then entertained the gathering with fifteen minutes of magic. Mr. Henry Dwire, former sports editor of the New York Times and now director of public relations at Duke University, then gave the address of the evening. This address was very inspiring and entertaining. After this address, a dance was held.

A business session was held Saturday morning. After the reports of the committees had been heard, Miss Susan Rudisill was elected president. The convention was then adjourned. The next convention will be held in April at Carolina Pines in Raleigh. Lamont Brown, the presidentHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

Henry Dwire, former newspaper publisher, was second vice-president. Davidson's only representative at the convention. The following schools had representatives present: Davidson, Duke, State, Wake Forest, W. C. U. N. C., Meredith, Guilford, High Point, Teacher's, Queens, Flora MacDonald, Atlantic Christian, and Eastern Carolina Teacher's. Appalachian State featured a goose-step, an oblique march, the twirling of two batons by each of the two drum-majors, and several special letter formations. The band played "O Davidson" in front of the Davidson section and formed a "D" in honor of B. E. Shields, the composer, who stood in the middle of the "D." Davidson threatened Duke's goal early in the first quarter, when "Teeny" Lafferty crossed the goal line only to be called back for stepping out of bounds. (Continued on Page 3)

Students Pause As Armistice Is Observed
Peace Emphasized As Theme Of American Legion and Chapel Services

Davidson College observed the seventeenth anniversary of the signing of the Armistice which brought the World War to an end with a special service at the Presbyterian Church, Sunday morning, November 10, conducted by the Women’s Auxiliary of the North Mecklenburg Post of the American Legion, and with a special chapel service on Monday morning, November 11, in Chambers Auditorium.

LEGION AUXILIARY HOLDS SERVICE

The regular morning worship service at the Davidson Presbyterian Church on last Sunday morning, November 10, was supplemented by a special Armistice Day observance sponsored by the Women’s Auxiliary of the North Mecklenburg Post of the American Legion. Dr. Kenneth J. Foreman, a member of the college faculty, delivered the sermon. Dr. Foreman pointed out in his sermon that peace was something that could not be attained by simply asking for it, but that it must be made. He said that, since it is useless to hope that war can be eliminated from the type of civilization we have today, we must rebuild the world on a new scale of values, with human life more highly regarded and conserved, and with a new, powerful, Christian church.

STUDENTS OBSERVE DAY IN CHAPEL

The regular chapel service on Monday morning, November 11, took the form of a celebration of the seventeenth anniversary of the signing of the Armistice. (Continued on Page 6)

New Seniors Are Initiated Into Omicron Delta Kappa

FRESHMAN NUMBER OF YOWL BRIGHTENS DAVIDSON CAMPUS

Greeted by such remarks as, "It's the freshman number but it's pretty good anyway," and "It's only one week late this time," the Yowl, Davidson’s would-be humorous magazine, made its first appearance on the campus. The front cover, designed by Hal Overton, pictured a rule-befuddled freshman with a wistful, homesick look on his face and a finger in his mouth. He was surrounded by laundry bags, matches, megaphones, nameplates, rifles, and water tanks. Inside were articles by Smith, Harold Sugg, Dick Vowles, and Bob Johnston, poetry by Tredway Purnell and a fellow named Anonymous, cartoons by Hal Overton, and jokes—original ones by members of the staff and funny ones clipped from other magazines.

The Safety Valve, with the following explanation: "We are not responsible for your safety, but don't let that frighten you," the magazine has been received heretofore. Among the most creditable of opinions was this one: "Sir, I like your picture book fine. Please send me a whole crate of them. Yours, U. S. Fire Bug No. 1." This issue also contains many very helpful hints by Miss Ethel Nonox, such as a fool-proof recipe for making Phi Beta Kappa and a definition of the "Perfect prof." The magazine concluded with the suggestion: "Keep the home fires burning. Send home a copy of the Yowl."

COUNCIL DANCES WELL ATTENDED

Homecoming Set Is Featured With Beautiful Girls and Good Dance Music

The annual Homecoming dances sponsored by the Pan-Hellenic Council of Davidson College terminated Saturday night, November 9, with a well-attended informal affair in the main dining room of the Hotel Charlotte.

Four Musical Numbers Dedicated To Davidson

Four musical compositions, written by friends and alumni, and dedicated to Davidson College, have been submitted to the music department in the past few weeks. The first of these is a symphonic march entitled "Davidson," by Franklin Riker, of Statesville, who is doing part-time voice teaching on the campus. Part of the march was played for the first time at the Homecoming band concert, and again on last week's radio broadcast. According to Prof. Pfohl, "This march is the finest of its type in band literature." It will be used at the beginning of each concert on the annual band tour.

Mr. Ben McKenzie, of Rockingham, an alumnus and former band member, sent the second march, which arrived too late to be scored for use in the Duke-Davidson game, as the composer hoped. The march, which will be played during a radio broadcast or chapel program in the near future, is dedicated to "Shrimp" Morris, a Davidson star forced to leave college due to infantile paralysis.

The other two compositions are the products of Dr. John Calhoun, Philadelphia, Penn., whose son is an alumnus of Davidson College. They are entitled, "Come, Sing to Davidson" and "The Men of Davidson." The first of these is an Alma Mater while the second is a typical college football song, but "O Davidson" is not suitable for an Alma Mater or college hymn," according to Prof. Pfohl. "There is a need for another college song of the hymn type to be used as an Alma Mater."

Duke Game Witnessed By Former Champions

The college was especially honored by the presence at the Duke game of the State Championship team of 1910. These champions sat on the sidelines during the game. At the alumni luncheon, the old team had a table to themselves. Resting on the table was the football they had used when they beat Carolina, 6-0. There were also scrapbooks with pictures of the Davidson football and baseball teams, clippings, etc. There were eight games played that season, the scores being: Catawba 29-0; Lenoir 57-0; V. P. I. 6-16; Carolina 6-0; Washington and Lee 12-14; College of Charleston 27-6; Univ. of South Carolina 53-0; and Wake Forest 32-0. Those of the team who were not able to be present sent telegrams or letters, which were read at the luncheon. Mrs. Oren Moore (Nee Louise Murphy), who was the sponsor of the team in 1910, made a speech at the luncheon. The Rev. W. A. Nicholson, one of the team, read a poem which he had written for the occasion. The big reunion of the team will be next year, with the Centennial Celebrations. It was decided to do this at their last meeting, five years ago.