THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 13, 1935

The Davidsonian
Founded by the Class of 1915

MEMBER
Associated Collegiate Press
1934 Collegiate Digest 1935

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Printed by the QUEEN CITY PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate year.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879.

ARTICLES FOR PUBLICATION must be in the hands of Managing Editors by 4:00 o'clock p.m., Monday. Letters to the Editor are but all tions intended for publication must be signed.

B. K. D. WEEKS... Editor
J. A. C. WADSWORTH... Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
MARTIN BARNETT... Managing Editor
PAUL HARLAN... Managing Editor
ROMA MARCHANT... Managing Editor
JOHN WALKER... Managing Editor
HARVEY GLASS... Managing Editor
SAMONT BROWN... Sports Editor
ED BOWERS... Exchange Editor
CARLYLE LEWIS... Feature Editor
JOHN McLEOD... Feature Editor
G. L. GUYETTE... Associate Editor
E. F. McPHAIL... Associate Editor
B. L. ROSE... Associate Editor
JACK HELLINGER... Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
J. B. GOSTEN... Asst. Business Mgr.
VAN CASSELS... Asst. Business Mgr.
TOM ROSS... Asst. Business Mgr.
J. STEWART McMULLEN... Asst. Business Mgr.
R. P. MORROW... Asst. Business Mgr.

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 1935

We know accurately only when we know little; with knowledge doubts increase —GOETHE.

THE UBIQUITOUS “SMOOCH” PROBLEM

This writer feels indeed just a little as if he has taken all audacity for his province—perhaps too much for any one editorial to attempt—yet it should be clearly understood at the outset that by no means is it our intention to presume to criticize, among other things, any current and popularly endorsed tendencies of the student body to innocently, and harmlessly indulge its caprice to satisfaction. Such “pranks” as the general scattering about of fire-crackers with the hope of distracting for a few moments any who may be preparing for the morrow’s classes, or the free and open expression of public sentiment on all occasions, while perhaps a little incongruous with certain elements of a college atmosphere, could hardly be said to evidence anything other than an effervescent and exuberant spirit—a characteristic college spirit, if you please.

However, there has been recently increasing one tendency—rather closely associated in a way with these “pranks”—which seems to differ from the others in that its effect and background make it, in the eyes of some, a rather unnecessary exaggeration and over-doing of this predominant spirit. Yet, it undoubtedly furnishes to all participants considerable amusement, hence it is most uncertain that it will ever be done away with. One particularly amusing situation to which it gives rise develops something like this: A faculty member, upon finding it necessary to speak with a student who takes none of his courses, takes advantage of the alphabetical seating arrangement in chapel to seek him out. Thereupon the rest of the student body, when they detect the incident, break into distinctly audible osculatory noises which serve to suitably embarrass both parties concerned.

Now, as we have said, far be it from the intention of this editorial to assume the role of “kill-joy,” or to cast any slurs at harmless and innocent fun; but we do wish to point out the undesirable origin of which this situation is only one manifestation, and also some of its other results. Ostensibly, the chief cause is that there are, and probably have always been, a certain few students who seek to take an unfair advantage of their fellows by attempting to obtain the good-will of professors by an accentuated application of diplomacy. But, in our opinion, this condition is only partially, and not primarily responsible for the present attitude. However, for us to proceed further might again entail transgression upon the forbidden domain of innocuous “fun,” and “play.” Or, perhaps, what would be worse, it might involve an insinuation to the effect that a slightly indifferent attitude toward certain possibilities of a college education should bear its part of the blame, also.

At any rate, whether because of caprice, or indifference, or both, there has grown up the attitude that anyone who displays common decency to a professor is simply courting a higher grade. And this has introduced into student-faculty relationships a most distasteful tenseness, and strain, which is equally insulting to both. Then, as a consequence of this, students of a more scrupulous type have often been made to avoid otherwise desirable association with professors; while those not so scrupulous have sometimes employed the tactics in question with the hope of bettering their scholastic average. Something amounting to little less than an actual gulf has been created, which is totally detrimental to all wholesome contact, yet it is one which seems very unnecessary. For we are compelled to observe that since there should be some line of censorship for any who are motivated by the urge to “smooch,” this line should be as clearly distinguishable in student-faculty relationships as in the case of students with students!

Of course, there is a certain amount of fun which comes from the exposure of even the most far-fetched appearances of “smooching,” yet, should it not be seriously questioned as to whether or not the price we pay is a little too dear!

FLYING RUMORS ABOUT THE CAMPUS

“The flying rumors gathered as they rolled, and all who told it added something new, and all who heard it made enlargement too; in every ear it spreads, on every tongue it grew.”

And such is the manner in which some prized bit of gossip originating in the form of an unfounded rumor concerning the outcome of some secretive meeting, such as that of the Student Council or the Executive Committee, spreads over the campus and becomes so distorted and exaggerated that in its final form it in no way resembles the original source. Nine out of ten times the source of such rumors is based upon very little proof if any at all. Nor need you confine this evil to meetings of a confidential nature, such as the Student Council which has long provided the most popular opportunity for rumors. Tell any bit of news that is in the least unusual and it develops in the same way.

This student body is not different from any other group of people in this respect. However, the situation here has reached such proportions as to become of greater concern than at places elsewhere. It has reached a stage where it is hardly advisable to believe any report that you hear unless you trace it to the most authentic source. There are numerous examples of this which need not be enumerated here. An announcement is made at chapel that the Student Council will meet that morning. Before the Council has dismissed the case, rumor has it all over the campus that one, or maybe two or three students, their names disclosed too, have been expelled first upon one charge and then another as the rumor goes, when in reality these students were only witnesses and no one was expelled.

Such rumors are bound to have detrimental effects, especially when personalities are involved. Even though the rumor be harmless, it can be played upon by the imagination of the multitude until it will result in serious consequences for somebody. The best policy, it seems, to follow concerning rumors would be to discern between the truth and the truth-likeness, and then repeat the truth only where it will be of advantage to somebody else.

PARAGRAPHICS

The staff of Quips and Cranks is more than gratified at the results of the drive made for student pictures last week. When faced with the possibility of not having an annual this year and next on account of a lack of pictures, a large number of students who had not had their pictures taken responded nicely and at present more than four hundred have been made. Good strategy on the part of Editor Smith.

Coach “Doc” Unger is to be congratulated on his wrestling team this year. Although he has some good material, hardly a man on the team had ever had any experience in wrestling before entering college. Some champion wrestlers have developed under his tutelage. Luther Shirey deserves special praise for the good fight he put up against his V. P. I. opponent in the wrestling match last Saturday night. Although Shirey was outweighed by sixty pounds and was wrestling for the first time in the unlimited class, his opponent was able to win only by a time decision.

Telephone booths were placed in East and West Dormitories for the convenience of the students. Continued abuse comparable to that given them last Sunday night will result in having them removed from all the dormitories.

The first American institution of higher learning to offer a course in medical instruction was Columbia University (New York City). The first lectures in this course were given on November 9, 1767.

The State University of Iowa (Iowa City) has inaugurated a course which deals with the problems of married life.

Honors in their college entrance examinations were won in the fall of 1934 by 109 Harvard University (Cambridge, Mass.) freshmen.

THE OPEN FORUM
Letters To The Editor
(Note: “The Davidsonian” does not necessarily endorse or accept any opinions expressed in this column).

Editor
The Davidsonian,
Davidson, N. C.

My dear Sir:

As one of the older Alumni, a constant reader of “The Davidsonian,” and a lover of Davidson for over half a century, I'd like to break my rule and write to your “Open Forum.”

I suppose it is natural for many of the Alumni, who are too old to dance or maybe to remember when they enjoyed dancing, to wonder why the students write and talk so much about this one form of amusement. Some of us wonder why the trustees and some members of the church courts place a ban on this amusement as a campus activity. Most of us who have sons in college or whose daughters have friends among the college students realize that the dancing age soon passes. We realize that dancing, as most other amusements, can be carried to excess. We know that it is possible to make harm of the dance and that often a few youngsters can give a bad name to any amusement.

I am sure a great many fathers and mothers of both boys and girls would much rather see their young people attend a carefully planned and properly chaperoned dance given on the campus than one given in some of the neighboring towns. It is a fact that most of our colleges and churches, also, pay too little attention to the social side of the young people’s life. Those of us who know Davidson realize that when this is secured many of these problems will be solved. Until that time, if a place could be secured, it seems infinitely better to...Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

have the college dances on “The Hill” where proper supervision can be exercised, always remembering it would be “up to” the students to see that the dances were kept on the highest possible plane—just as they would wish them if they were held in their own homes. Yours for Davidson, Dr. R. H. Lafferty.

Editor The Davidsonian, Davidson, N. C.

Dear Editor:

My sympathy is strongly enlisted with the efforts of the Student Policies Union to bring dancing to the campus of Davidson College. I have great sympathy also, for the Board of Trustees which must consider this question of changing a cherished rule which, no doubt, was made with an earnest desire to preserve a high standard of campus student-life. But it is the opinion of one mother, who has given this matter some thought, that instead of thrusting the men out where their natural desires for recreation are too highly commercialized for a favorable reaction, it would be better to have that recreation carried on where it could be wisely and sympathetically provided for by those most interested in the best results for the Davidson Student Body. (And those most interested are, of course, the members of the board). I hope this short letter will help a little to support the cause of this forward step.

Sincerely, Este H. Brown.

Editor The Davidsonian, Davidson, N. C.

Dear Editor:

A few days ago I received a letter bearing your signature and enclosing a card on which you requested me to answer anonymously the question of whether or not I would have chosen Davidson for my son had dancing been permitted on the campus at the time of my decision. To this question I answered “yes.” It seems to me that if you are to permit students to indulge in this form of social activity that it could certainly be done with less danger of objectionable outside influences there on the campus than would be the case where these dances are held in Charlotte or some other outside point. I am sure that none of the students or visitors would be guilty of misconduct, such as drinking, etc., on the very doorsteps of the members of the faculty. It also appears to me that the danger of trips on the highway to and from Charlotte, late at night, in overcrowded and sometimes carelessly and recklessly driven cars, in all kinds of weather, is a hazard which would be eliminated. Then, too, the expense of these trips into Charlotte no doubt means a great deal to most of the boys, as I feel confident that few, if any of them, have sufficient money to take care of this. In conclusion, let me add that the fathers and mothers of the young ladies who are privileged to attend these dances would welcome this change, as it would afford them a feeling of security that they could not otherwise have.

Very truly yours, E. B. Garrett.

COMPASSING the CAMPUS

By Scotty McLeod

Palmer Christian, who played in an organ recital here some weeks ago, was admiring the North Carolina pottery at the Tavern of the Hotel Charlotte just after his visit here. He bought several pieces of the jugwork to exhibit to his friends in Michigan: a charming memento of his Southern trip, examples of North Carolina mountain handicraft. Wishing to know just what part of the Tar Heel state the jugs came from, he inquired of the clerk. Picture his astonishment when he was told that the pottery came from Michigan, a few miles from Christian's own home. Disillusionment is ever serving to perturb the smooth-running stream of human affairs.

Four packed cars carried collegians from here to Concord last Friday eve for a hop at the M. and M. Club. The femmes went hog-wild as Davidson arrived en masse, confident and smiling. Johnny Mackorell and Wood Burns acquired a sudden taste for raw oysters and went at the task of shelling them with hammer, knives, and tongs. Paul (Scatter-Brained) Pittman had lots of fun driving his car to and fro. Mary McCoy, Gertrude Ross, and red-headed Pharr were there. Broadus Yarborough, Pin-head Northen, Schnozzle Ross, and High Pockets Verble were attendant.

Perpetuating the memory of a saint, Valentine Day brings comics and romantics. From the “Roses are Sweet” variety to the oddly-drawn caricatures of old maids and nags, they pour in to males and females at this season. Embracing a noble sentiment, the day is an institution of particular note to collegians.

Paul Sabin brings his boys to Charlotte for the college’s Mid-winter hops this weekend; few of the regulars will miss as these are traditionally the best of the Pan-Hellenic presentations. The torch-singers are promising and from Memphis and New York reports it appears that Sabin has a pleasing outfit well-fortified with music and novelty numbers. Unusual decorations and paraphernalia are promised.

A distinctly social organization, with representatives from most of the lodges on the court, the Country Gentlemen is coming into recognition as a greatly needed unit and one which is beginning to serve its unique service—that of providing suitable entertainment for those socially minded students who desire it. Charlie Thompson and Mal Grimes are the new leaders of the club, succeeding Billy Atwater and Wimpy Ravenel. In the few previous years of its history, the group has held little prestige or recognition but it seems definitely to be the coming organization on the Davidson Hill at the present time.

With over one hundred clubs in this district, it is expected that a large group of I. R. C. delegates will be here for the conference to be held next week. Charlie Lucas and Grier Martin have planned a program bound to attract those whose interests center on foreign relations, war and peace, international problems, and world policies.

An early day Valentine greeting from Illinois has Tom Downie in a stew. It was one of those comics that goes like this: Is you mine? or is you ain't? If you is all is forgiven, if you ain’t it’s too bad for you. Sentimental P.S. I hope you choke.

Pictures Sufficient To Publish Annual For ’35

Since the disclosure of the dire situation of the college annual, and since the recent appeal made to the student body, there has been a ready response and a result sufficiently satisfactory to warrant the publication of a 1934-35 annual. Editor Bob Smith, reports that, during the visits of the photographer, 390 individual pictures were taken.

OUR CONTEMPORARIES

By Em Bowers

Strange—Or Is It?

Twenty out of every twenty-one State College students voted that they would not bear arms if the United States should invade another country. It was also indicated in this particular poll that 538 to 150 would bear arms if the country was invaded by another power. Sentiment on an American Navy and air force second to none was about equally divided, 351 voting for the question and 337 voting against it.

The Champ

Fred Borries, Navy’s famed grid star, is the holder of the largest number of “N Stars” ever won by a Midshipman at the United States Naval Academy. The star insignia is presented to athletes who take part in athletic contests against the Army at West Point which have been won by the Navy.

Bacon Is Shakespeare

A student at Wake Forest noted in McCutcheon and Vann’s “Anthology of English Literature” on page 136 that “Bill” was baptized on April 26, 1564, three days after his birth. On the following page, his death is given as April 23, 1564—so he could not have been more than one day old, never was baptized, and never wrote a line of poetry or drama. However, it is best to add that the date of the “bard’s” death given in the anthology was a typographical error.

Cadets Stage Skirmish Over Orchestras

Cadets at the Citadel were victors in a skirmish with two orchestras and a booking agent when the latter switched bands without the Cadets’ knowledge at their past hops. All went well until several members of the Corps, failing to recognize the band leader as the same individual whose picture had appeared in their school paper, began to investigate. Armed with photographs and samples of handwriting, members of the dance committee bearded the lion in his den and immediately after attacks and counter-attacks, turns and flank-movements, the Cadets of the Military College of South Carolina pinned the enemy and forced a general confession from the leader and the agent.

Adam vs Eve

When the Vassar College girls found out that the Yale Junior Prom was to be held on February 14th, they wired the committee: “Understand your prom is to be the 14th. Since many Yales plan to attend ours, imperative to the success of ours you change date. Please advise immediately.” Some Yale student sent this unofficial reply: “Since Eve it has been the immemorial right of a woman to change her mind. Please advise.”

Prices On Shotguns Rise

So many school students in Vienna, Austria were committing suicide rather than face the consequences of taking home a bad report card that the city’s department of education decided something had to be done about it. As a result, a new bureau was established, made up of volunteers who go home with pupils who have bad looking reports for the purpose of telling severe parents how they can help their children rather than beat them up.

Collegiania

It would take 503 years for one person to complete all of the courses now being offered by Yale University. From 1802 to June, 1934, 10,182 cadets have been graduated from the United States Military Academy at West Point. Next to Singer Lawrence Tibbet, Flyer James Harold Doolittle is the most famed member of the class of 1914 at the Los Angeles Manual Arts High School. THE CRIMSON WHITE tells us that for the price of one thin dime Alabama students attend dances sponsored by the Carolina Hunt Club. These affairs come semi-weekly and are quite popular. At Southern California when a man catches another cheating, he begins to stamp his feet. The whole class takes up the stamping until the cheater has stopped his foul tactics.

A vivid description of a college: College... a glimpse of an ivy-covered Gothic tower... lanes through emerald green lawns shaded by century-old oaks, beneath which students sprawl and chat... a football arcs its way over a great football stadium... College... where bright colored roadsters flash in front of palace-like fraternity houses... where gay crowds gather along the senior wall to sing the college songs at twilight... where couples stroll along the bank of a lazy river while a pale moon looks on... College... where all the profs are amiable nitwits who ride bicycles... where all the co-eds are glamorous blondes, amorous, and lovely... it must be like that, the books and movies couldn’t all be wrong. Yep, it must be swell to go to college. (Old Gold and Black).