THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 20, 1935

TWENTY-EIGHT COMMISSIONED AT LAST DRILL

Potter Receives O. R. C. Medal For Most Outstanding Senior and Presentation Saber

The last parade of the R.O.T.C. department for this year was held last Wednesday afternoon on Richardson Field. A large audience of townspeople and students were present to witness the ceremonies. The companies formed at 3:10 for roll call. The adjutant’s call was sounded at 3:20. Following the Battalion (alternate) parade, retreat was sounded, a gun was fired, and the colors were lowered from the stadium flag staff.

Major Francis J. Beatty, of the infantry Reserve, then presented Cadet Lieutenant-Colonel Albert J. Potter with the Reserve Officers’ Association, Charlotte Chapter, Medal to the Most Outstanding R.O.T.C. Senior, and with the Battalion Commander’s Saber. Major John T. Rhett, Infantry-P.M.S. & T., presented Cadet Captain John W. Douglas and Cadet Major Robert T. Coit with a copy of the official orders which designate them to be honor students. These men were awarded this distinction because of their attainments in their regular studies, their scholastic proficiency, and their intelligent attention to duty.

Cadet Captain Charles T. Fort was presented with a cup as a token of the fact that his company, Company “A,” won the company competitive drill held Monday, May 13. Captain Tom Brand, who made the official government inspection of the R.O.T.C. department on April 25 and 26, was judge in this competition. Company “D” ran Company “A” a close race for the honor.

Major Rhett then presented the following seniors with their commissions: James I. Batte, William I. Brewer, Luther E. Byerly, Robert T. Coit, A. Moreland Cunningham, Charles T. Fort, Edwin B. Garrett, Jr., Thomas H. Griffith, Charles C. Harris, Francis B. Hillier, Sidney I. Jetton, William I. Northern, Jr., Jay H. Ostwalt, Albert J. Potter, Joseph H. Powell, Jr., Lawrence E. Quarterman, John A. C. Robinson, Ansel C. Rogers, Perry M. Rogers, Courtney B. Ross, Baxter O. Simpson, James H. Simpson, John M. Smith, Albert C. Stutts, John R. Taylor, John K. Thompson, James B. Withers, Jr., and Gordon R. Wood.

The following were awarded certificates which will be replaced by commissions when they have reached the age of twenty-one: Charles A. Coleman, Cameron D. Deans, Rigdon O. Dees, Jr., John M. Douglas, Jr., Gordon L. Green, Jr., Edwin G. Holt, Reginald M. Porter, Jr., William B. Ravenal, III, Robert H. Smith, Jr., Thomas I. Sutton, Jr., William B. Templeton, and Hugh Yelverton, III.

The buglers then sounded “Taps”; the battalion passed in review; and so ended the 1934-35 military year.

O. D. K. Initiates Sixteen Monday

(Continued from Page One)

...of a speech from each of the new members. The speech was to be three minutes long and the speakers were to be judged on their pronunciation, vocabulary, and manner of delivery. Jim Morgan was given a medal by Dr. J. W. MacConnell for his speech. Dr. MacConnell said when presenting the medal to Jim, “Jim's speech was not so good but the competition was poor.”

“Skip” Brown made a talk particularly to the juniors challenging them “To live their lives next year as they would like to according to their idea of right.” Carlton Chapman accepted the challenge for the juniors and promised that the juniors would do their best to live up to the challenge that they had accepted. The banquet was brought to a close with a speech by Capt. Norton G. Pritchett.

Backward Glance Discloses Humor and Pathos In Kaleidoscopic Events of Year

The Davidsonian Clocks Campus Pulse From Orientation to Graduation

SUMMARY PRESENTED

Dances, Broadcasts, S.P.U.—All Pass into History

By Evucuw Fant

Throughout this year, as throughout others, it has been the task of THE DAVIDSONIAN to clock the march of time across the grassy stretches of the Davidson campus, and to record and broadcast the footprints on the sands of time made by a record-size student body. Here, neatly packed into the much-used nutshell, are presented the outstanding news events of the year, gathered from the twenty-eight issues of the school paper which have filled the wastebaskets of the hill since September 19, 1934. Remember...?

September 19, 1934: A new group of Freshmen, picked, as usual, while still quite green, is thrust upon the college, and, between long orientation speeches and longer fraternity blah, finds itself wondering strange things. College improvements, made during the summer at considerable cost to somebody, help to offset the class of ’38.

TIME MARCHES ON:

September 26, 1934: One hundred and sixteen men agree to stick by the various Greek-letter fraternities, for better or for worse, till death do them part. Davidson prances to her traditional victory over Elon in the opening game of the season. Three hundred men, through love of country and fear of physical ed., don the khaki of their homeland.

TIME MARCHES ON:

October 3, 1934: Lustily cheered by a hopeful student body, a gallant Wildcat team takes the train for New York, twenty-six strong. FERA work on the campus begins, and with it hard jobs for Professor Fleagle and others in charge. Bitter defeat, softened by the glory of a job well done, at Greensboro.

TIME MARCHES ON:

October 10, 1934: News from New York. Oh, well. The ambitions of the student body are revealed through their vocational choices. This astounding headline on page six: “Dean Sentelle Refunds Money to 18 Students”!

TIME MARCHES ON:

October 17, 1934: The first set of Pan-Hellenics approaches, featuring the music of Hal Thurston et al. “Cats plan comeback against Blue Devils.” S.P.I.s win Scholarship Cup. What again?

TIME MARCHES ON:

October 24, 1934: The stork pays a visit to student unrest, and the S.P.U. is born. Dr. Blanton Belk’s series of talks under the sponsorship of the Y.M.C.A. is begun on Sunday. Knees tremble as the first grades of the year confirm fears.

TIME MARCHES ON:

October 31, 1934: Eight of the intelligentsia are issued bids to membership in Phi Beta Kappa. 100 percent of them accept. Plans are begun for a special wire from Chambers to WBYT. Johnny Long’s music men are secured for the Sophomore Weekend.

TIME MARCHES ON:

November 7, 1934: Six seniors are tapped by O.D.K. Homecoming is observed on Saturday, complete with bonfire, shirttails, and yells the night before. Carolina 12-Davidson 2. First Yow! of the year is heard, followed shortly by one from the faculty. The second succeeds. THE DAVIDSONIAN is printed for the first time on its new type of rag.

TIME MARCHES ON:

November 14, 1934: Publication Potentates for Press Parley. Christian gives the first of the musical concerts of the year. Cameras click as seniors are pictured for the annual.

TIME MARCHES ON:

November 21, 1934: O.D.K. initiates men who have recovered from the blows dealt them on tap day. THE DAVIDSONIAN “fosters” a photo contest. After three weeks of broadcasting from the campus, a multitude of congratulatory letters are received from here, there, and other distant points.

TIME MARCHES ON:

November 28, 1934: “THE DAVIDSONIAN Receives Honor.” “...except in his own country.”—Matt. 13:57. Georgia and Watts gird up their loins and act like lions. Dictator Coit is entrusted with the destiny of the class of ’38.

TIME MARCHES ON:

December 5, 1934: “Wildcats Conquer Deacons in Closing Combat of Season.” A worthy climax to a brilliant season.Items of the past year are reviewed in the neighboring columns. Liant season! The annual photographer returns, thirsting for gold. Georgia drenches Watts; Watts retaliates. A merry time is had by all.

TIME MARCHES ON: December 12, 1934: Sophomore Weekend is at hand. Every dog has his day, and the Sophs their weekend. College musicians appear at Queens—yeah, appear ill-at-ease and embarrassed. Seniors cop basketball crown from Juniors.

TIME MARCHES ON: January 9, 1935: A student body much the worse for wear returns, hollow-eyed, to the halls of learning. The student body is informed of a dire fate: The Davidsonian is to skip two editions in honor of exams. “It’s an ill-wind...” Three faculty members plunge into the inevitable sea, by way of ushering the New Year in.

TIME MARCHES ON: January 30, 1935: Coach Gene McIver sticks by Davidson despite an attractive offer from Tennessee. Hauptmann holds the campus spellbound. What price glory?

TIME MARCHES ON: February 6, 1935: Hardin Crain lecture announced. English professors decide he will have an audience. Brinkman tickles the ivories in a most commendable manner, say those who should know.

TIME MARCHES ON: February 13, 1935: The S.P.U. prepares for its clash with the Board. Well-minded weeks of infliction are perpetrated against Greek Frosh, and initiations are held. Rev. Redhead is announced as Spring “Y” speaker. Numerous puns, mostly free and easy.

TIME MARCHES ON: February 20, 1935: “Craig Talks to Large Audience Thursday Night.” Hah. Mid-winters are a howling success. Sabin is surprisingly like 5c. A hurrying campus pauses to heave a sigh as Doc Charley, faithful through a quarter of a century, passes.

TIME MARCHES ON: February 27, 1935: Wildcat wrestlers down State to become Big Five champs for the year. Nathan, a German of note, makes an address to the I.R.C. Not once does he say “Heil Hitler.” Band begins its drive for uniforms.

TIME MARCHES ON: March 6, 1935: Bill Allsbrook announced for Junior “Speaking.” Eight more men are issued bids for Phi Beta Kappa. The faculty announces its plans for graduation. Davidson Hotel installs orchestra in its Empire Room.

TIME MARCHES ON: March 13, 1935: Joe Dees is chosen varsity cheerleader for next year. Honor Roll is announced. Chills inspired by Masquers in “Three Taps at Twelve.”

TIME MARCHES ON: March 20, 1935: “Chapman Elected President of Student Body.” Carlson is named vice-president. Dr. Dobie lays ‘em in the aisles at the chapel hour on Tuesday. Junior Speaking pronounced a “shukshesh.”

TIME MARCHES ON: March 27, 1935: Glass, Dickson, and Boggs elected to “Y” posts. Lamont Brown chosen to succeed Editor Weeks of The Davidsonian. Plans for Bowery Ball are announced.

TIME MARCHES ON: April 10, 1935: Davidson's ninety-eighth birthday is observed by Founders’ Day program on April 9. McLeod and Scotty head the staff for the coming year. The Ball and attendant dances approach.

TIME MARCHES ON: April 17, 1935: Spring Services are held by Redhead. Barnett is chosen editor of the annual for '35-'36. Bloody “nigger shootin'” follows Bowery Ball. No connection, of course.

TIME MARCHES ON: April 24, 1935: New student body officers are installed with due ceremony at chapel. S.P.E’s win Old Gold prize. Warning issued that Vow! is on its way. Beware!

TIME MARCHES ON: May 1, 1935: S.P.E. taps sixteen men, and how. Professor Meagle is honored with a bid. Purnell chosen to post of chief Frosh-regulator for next year. Branton to head Pan-Hellenics.

TIME MARCHES ON: May 10, 1935: Pritchett decides to leave Davidson for a position at Virginia. Y.M.C.A. officers installed. A new printer presents a super Davidsonian. May there never be another like it.

TIME MARCHES ON: May 15, 1935: Davidsonian’s goodbye for the year, in Kaleidoscopic events of the year.

Much Loved Davidson Professor Passes Away (Continued from Page One)
John Daniel, student at the Duke University Law School. All of these survive Dr. McConnell. He was a member of Phi Beta Kappa, Omicron Delta Kappa, and the Kappa Alpha social organization. He is survived, in addition to his immediate family, by three brothers: Dr. J. W. McConnell, Davidson; D. E. McConnell, Gastonia; and R. W. McConnell, McConnellsville, S.C.; and one sister, Mrs. J. S. Jones, of York, S.C. Funeral services were held at the Davidson Presbyterian Church, Friday afternoon at 5 o'clock. They were conducted by Dr. H. M. Moffet, pastor of the church, who was assisted in the service by Dr. C. M. Richards, Professor of Bible at Davidson and former pastor of the Davidson church.

Davidsonian Wins Honors (Continued from Page One)
Variety in lead paragraphs, and trite expressions. In the Collegiate Press, The Davidsonian competed with the publications of Wake Forest, Duke, Carolina, and N.C. State. The local paper was awarded first in “B” class, which refers to colleges of less than 1000 enrollment. The Duke Chronicle of Duke University received first place in the “A” standing. The 1933-34 Davidsonian, under the editorship of Odie Casali, was also awarded first class honor rating in national competition. The national standing is determined by the Press Scholarship Association at the University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, Minn.

Senior Class Day Will Take Place on June 3
Senior Class Day will be held Monday afternoon, June 3, at 5 o'clock, in Chambers Auditorium, as part of the commencement program. Officers for the occasion, who were recently elected by the graduating class, are: Mock Valedictorian, Bob Smith; Mock Salutatorian, Geddie Moncrief; Class Poet, Cameron Deans; Class Orator, Skip Brown; and Class Historian, Tom Wood.

Senior Speakers In Charge of Vespers
President McPhail Presides As Bailey, Dubose, and Rhodes Give Talks
The Senior Class conducted their final Vesper Service as a class at six o'clock yesterday, May 19, on the Davidson campus, with Fred McPhail, class president, in charge. Speakers on the program were Don Bailey, Arnold Rhodes, and Warner DuBose who developed different aspects of the subject. Music was furnished by the college Glee Club which presented several hymns. A special feature of the program was a solo by Mrs. N. G. Pritchett, her last musical appearance at Davidson.

The preceding Sunday, May 12, Vespers were conducted by the Sophomore Class. Carl Carlson, president of the class, presided over the service, introducing the two speakers of the occasion, Frank Brown and Walter Dickson. Music was furnished by several members of the college band who opened with the selection “Nearer My God to Thee.” Following this, scripture was read and a prayer offered by Roger Melton of the Sophomore class. The first speaker on the program was Walter Dickson who spoke on “What our Mothers mean to us,” the program being built on a Mother's Day theme. Frank Brown, the next speaker, used as his subject, “What we should mean to our Mothers.” A musical feature of the program was a number “Mother Machree,” played by four members of the band. The program was closed with the singing of “Rock of Ages.”