THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 17, 1935

DATE BUREAU NOT SUCCESSFUL

Chemical Constitution Of Modern Girl Analyzed By Doctors At Albany

Associated Collegiate Press

Romance via the date bureau won't work, at least at the University of Minnesota, for the much-publicized bureau, set up
last fall, has folded up for lack of patronage. “People didn’t use it,” Jean Myers, chairman of the bureau, declared.
“There is no use continuing it if students won't support the bureau.” Part of the difficulty in putting the plan
over was attributed to the resistance which generally accompanies any social innovation. The prejudice against it could not be broken
down, according to the chairman. Students who signed up for dates in a joking way were partly responsible for its
unsuccessful career, it was pointed out.

WHO SAID, “SWEET THING?”

College boys who think the charming co-eds they take out are sweet are about to have a rude awakening from
a false illusion, for doctors at Albany Medical College of Union University have evolved the following chemical formula for the
young ladies of today.

YOUNG

One girl is made of enough glycerine to furnish the bursting charge for one naval shell. She has enough lime
to whitewash a chicken coop and she has enough gluten to make five pounds of glue. In addition, she has
enough sulfur to rid an ordinary dog of fleas and enough chlorine to sanitize three good-sized swimming pools. In addition,
she carries around every day 30 teaspoons of salt, 31 pounds of carbon, and 10 gallons of water. Who said
“sweet young thing?”

Collegiate Digest Will Sponsor Photo Contest

The Collegiate Digest, weekly rotogravure supplement for college newspapers, is offering a weekly prize of five dollars in cash to
the college student who submits the “Picture of the Week.” Each week the Collegiate Digest will feature one picture that
its editors believe to be outstanding from the standpoint of photography, composition, subject, and the story it tells. Still life
as well as action photos will be eligible for the contest, and there are no subject restrictions beyond those of
libel and decency. The editors reserve the right to use any photo submitted in the contest which is not chosen
as a prize winner in Collegiate Digest at the regular rate of one dollar, payment to be made upon publication.

The rules of the contest are as follows:
1. Each entry must be made by an amateur photographer who is now a member of the faculty or student
body of a college or university.
2. The name, address, and college of each contestant, together with full information about the photograph, must be printed on
the back of each photo submitted. No limitation is made upon the number of entries each contestant may submit, nor
upon the size of the photographs submitted.
3. No picture will be returned unless accompanied by postage.
4. All pictures submitted in the contest should be addressed to: Picture of the Week, Collegiate Digest, P. O. Box
472, Madison, Wisconsin.

Library Makes New Additions

(Continued from Page 3)

many and Austria; containing interesting chapters on the porcelain of Meissen and Dresden, Nurnberg with its wood carvers and metal
workers, Christmas tree ornaments, toys, silver and glass, and the peasant arts—including the Tirolean festival ornaments.

Don John of Austria—Margaret Yeo. The story of the love child of Charles V of Spain, who grew up as
a peasant boy, and was later recognized by his brother Philip II and made commander of the Spanish forces who
crushed the Moors. He was the victor in the battle of Lepanto against the Turks, and became the hero of
Christendom. He became the husband of Mary Queen of Scots, but died at the age of thirty-one in Flanders.

Davidson Alumni Chapters Gather

Several Davidson Officials Speak To Alumni During Founder’s Week

Two Davidson Alumni Chapters held belated Founder’s Day meetings during the earlier part of this week. Local conditions in the
several communities made postponement of the celebration advisable. Dr. C. R. Harding, of the Davidson Greek Department, and Grier Martin,
Alumni Secretary, journeyed to Greenville, S. C., to speak before a gathering of Davidson friends and alumni in that city
Monday evening. Tuesday night Dr. Frazer Hood, professor of psychology on the hill, made the principal address before a similar
group in Greensboro. Coach Gene McEver and Johnny Mackorell were also featured on the program. The Davidson Quartet sang for
the occasion, and Martin made a brief talk. Dr. Frank Sharp, president of the Greensboro chapter, presided.

The Alumni Secretary announced that reunions for thirteen classes are scheduled for the approaching commencement season. Letters from each class
president have been mailed out to the members of his respective class. All reunions will take place in Davidson on
Monday, June 3. Luncheons for the various groups will be given in several boarding houses.

Spring Services To End Tonight

(Continued from Page 1)

not take so much effort,” spoke Redhead at the chapel service Tuesday, “but there is a way of being good
without trying.” Paul sums it up in unforgettable fashion: “We are all with unveiled face beholding as in a mirror
the image of Christ,” and we are transformed into the same image. “Character comes more by contagion than by conscious
effort, and the secret of it is to live in spiritual relationships that do things to us.”

Rev. Redhead spoke upon “Playing the Game.” He showed that everyone must play the game according to the rules and
that there are rules also in the moral universe. “If we don’t obey these rules,” Redhead asserted, “then we'll be
put out of the game. We don’t break the moral laws. They break us.” Tuesday evening saw “In the second
place, what the world needs is men who play the game according to rules, whether it means win or lose.
And third, the man who plays the game according to the rules will in the final outcome be found on
the winning side.”

This morning Redhead spoke on “Making God Real.” He stated that we begin knowing God as a formula of explanation,
but that it is up to one to know Him as a fact of experience. We cannot be satisfied with
the beginning kind.“...of knowledge,” said Redhead in this sermon. “It’s only a gateway through which we pass to the second
kind.” The proof of the pudding is in the eating: “O taste and see that the Lord is good.” He
showed that God has a private door in every heart—but too often we leave the latchstring on the inside. Redhead
graduated from Southwestern in 1926, receiving his B.D. and Th.M. degrees from Union Seminary in Richmond. His record has stamped
him as one of the outstanding young preachers in the Southern Presbyterian Church. He is now pastor of a Presbyterian
Church in Tampa, Florida.

Because liquor was served at a dinner dance, a University of Michigan (Ann Arbor) fraternity was closed for the balance
of the year. Two thousand wads of chewing gum were recently taken from their resting places under library tables at
the University of Florida (Gainesville).

CARS FOR RENT
Gulf Gas and Oil
M. P. HENDERSON

A True School
“...and how shall they hear without a preacher?”
UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY
RICHMOND, VIRGINIA

Brilliant Ball Ends Pan Hellenic Dances
(Continued from Page 1)
Sarah Finger, Kings Mountain; Mary Miller, Winston-Salem.
Pi Kappa Alpha: Isabel White, Concord; Peggy Bullock, Red Springs; Frances Milton, Chattanooga, Tenn.; Alice Dunlap, Albemarle; Frances Jolley, Kannapolis;
Mary Harris, Welch, W. Va.; and Helen Player, Morganton.
Kappa Alpha: Mary Lib Sanders, Roxboro; Sarah Frances Crosby, Chester; Tilly Jones and Mitzie Miller, Salisbury; Betty Hunter, Katherine Crowell,
Anna Boyce Rankin, Charlotte; and Virginia Moore, Bennettsville, S. C.
Sigma Alpha Epsilon: Alice Boatwright, Wilmington; Sarah Badham, Edenton; Lila Tucker, Charlotte.
Kappa Sigma: Ripple Wooding, Jerry Bunklemyer, Martha Dees, Greensboro; Sarah Young, Charlotte; Flora Alice Davis, Kingstree, S. C.; Evelyn Misenhimer,
Salisbury; Betty Browning, Bluefield, and Betty Thomas, Wytheville, Va.
Pi Kappa Phi: Mary Reid Harris, Wilmington; Libby Rhett, Davidson; Mary Claire Stokes, Wilson; Pat Redfern, Monroe; Louise Commander, Sumter,
S. C.; Lydia Stuart, Charlotte; Marjorie Wakefield, Charlotte; Margaret Powell, Florence, S. C.; Betsy Johnson, Wytheville, Va.; Lois Launauer, Rock
Hill, S. C.; Dusty Blackman, Rock Hill, S. C.; Rachael Porterfield, Wytheville, Va.; Susie Waters Hooks, Fremont; Beverly Moore, Bennettsville,
S. C.
Phi Gamma Delta: Blevins Vogler, Mary Louise Heywood, and Dorothy Thomas, Winston-Salem; Dorothy Clendenin, Elizabeth Spanger, and Frances Grubbs, Greensboro;
Sarah Jones, Atlanta, Ga.; Louisa Rankin, Fayetteville; and Wilhelmenia Monroe, Geddiesburg, Canada.
Phi Delta Theta: Nell Ginger Shaver, Lil Deadmon, Alice Deas, Salisbury; Patsy McClain, Laurinburg, S. C.; Martha Croasland, Bennettsville, S.
C.; Georgia Underwood, and Zoe Straun, Charlotte.

Classes of ’37 And ’38 Elect Officers
(Continued from Page 1)
Sophomore class, with the exception of a vice-president, this race being narrowed to two candidates. “Teeny” Lafferty was elected to
the presidency, with Crooks as secretary-treasurer; Bixler and Wicker were to be voted on Tuesday, to determine the vice-president. Nominations
for the offices were made by a committee, and were presented to the class on Thursday morning. Balloting started Friday,
with Barrow, Dorsett, Lafferty, Hill, Kiesewetter, Lyons, Harris, and Crooks as candidates for the presidency. Of these eight men all
but Barrow, Dorsett and Lafferty were eliminated on the first day. Dennis, Bahnson, Hogan, Brittain, Alderman, Cline, McKnight, Bixler, and
Wicker were the nominees for the vice-presidency, and all but Alderman, Cline, McKnight, Bixler, and Wicker were eliminated by Friday's
vote.

In the race for the secretary-treasurer’s office, Caton, Dennis, and Street were eliminated the first day, leaving Morrison, Faison, Vowles,
and Crooks in the running. Saturday, the second day of voting, saw Barrow dropped from the presidential candidacy, Alderman and
Cline eliminated from the vice-presidential race, and Morrison and Faison left out of the running for secretary-treasurer. Monday morning Dorsett’s
defeat gave Lafferty the presidency, while Vowles abandoned the field to Crooks in the secretary-treasurer division. McKnight was eliminated from
the race for vice-president, leaving Bixler and Wicker.

President-Elect Lafferty, whose home is in Concord, N. C., is a member of Pi Kappa Alpha social fraternity; Secretary-Treasurer-Elect Crooks,
of Meridian, Miss., is a member of Phi Delta Theta social fraternity.
Sigma Phi Epsilon: Marie and Margaret Cline, Salisbury; Mrs. Hugh Hawkins, Charlottesville, Va.

Pursuit Of Knowledge Declining In Germany
By Associated Collegiate Press
“The pursuit of knowledge in modern Germany is on the decline,” Dr. Friedrich Wolfe, distinguished German playwright and refugee from
Nazi Germany, declared in an interview with the Seawanhaka, Long Island University newspaper. As evidence of his statement, he cited
the fact that during the year there has been a decline of thirty per cent in University enrollment, and the
authorities have declared this to be a favorable sign. “German officials believe that it is not good taste to use
one’s head too much,” he said. Dr. Wolfe is at present visiting universities and colleges here and at the conclusion
of his tour will go to Russia to supervise the production of one of his plays.

The first crack of the bat during the opening baseball practice at Seth Low College of Columbia University (N. Y.),
resulted in a broken window. Rogers, Jr., son of the famous humorist, won a Pacific coast speech contest recently as
a representative of Stanford University (Palo Alto, Calif.). State blue laws prevented a student dramatic group at Penn State College
from practicing or moving scenery on a Sunday. “We do not live by thinking, for 90 per cent of our
activities are done by habit,” Prof. Herbert Martin, of the University of Iowa (Iowa City), declares.

MONDAY, TUESDAY, Davidson Theatre
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 17
THE LITTLE MINISTER
With Katherine Hepburn and John Beale
THURSDAY, APRIL 18
GEORGE WHITE’S SCANDALS
With Alice Faye and James Dunn
FRIDAY, APRIL 19
BABY FACE HARRINGTON
A Charles Butterworth Comedy
SATURDAY, APRIL 20
HOLD ’EM YALE
TRAVELLING SALESLADY
With Joan Blondell
FOUR HOURS TO KILL
With Richard Barthelmess
APRIL 22
APRIL 23

Do you want to know why folks like ’em? You don’t have to climb a flagpole as high as Jack’s
beanstalk to find out—Just walk into any one of the 769,340 places in this country where cigarettes are sold and
say—

It is estimated that there are this day 769,340 places in this country where Chesterfields are on sale all the
time.
© 1935, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.
