THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 9, 1935

The Davidsonian
Founded by the Class of 1916

MEMBER
Associated Collegiate Press

Published Weekly
“For a Better Davidson”

Printed by the QUEEN CITY PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate year.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879.

ARTICLES FOR PUBLICATION must be in the hands of Managing Editors by 4:00 o'clock p.m., Monday. Letters to the Editor are welcomed, but all communications intended for publication must be signed.

EDITORIAL STAFF
J. A.C. WADSWORTH ... Business Manager
Dic WEEKS ... Managing Editor
Paul BARNETT ... Managing Editor
Tom HARLAN ... Managing Editor
John MARCHANT ... Managing Editor
Harvey GLASS ... Managing Editor
Lamont Brown ... Sports Editor
Em Bowers ... Exchange Editor
Carlyle Lewis ... Feature Editor
Scotty McLeod ... Feature Editor
G. L. Gutierre ... Associate Editor
E. F. McPhaw ... Associate Editor
B. L. Rose ... Associate Editor
Jack Hellinger ... Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
J. B. Gosten ... Asst. Business Mgr.
Val Cassels ... Asst. Business Mgr.
Tom Ross ... Asst. Business Mgr.
J. S. Mullen ... Asst. Business Mgr.
R. P. Morrow ... Asst. Business Mgr.

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 9, 1935

When ill news comes too late to be serviceable to your neighbor, keep it to yourself.—Zimmerman.

DAVIDSON AND THE SOUTHERN CONFERENCE

Once again the Southern Conference has failed to admit additional members to its ranks, and for at least one more year the number of schools on the roll will remain at ten. However, those colleges aspiring toward membership in this group were given an encouraging outlook for acceptance at the next meeting of the conference representatives.

The athletic directors from the ten institutions now included in the Southern Conference at their annual meeting held in Richmond, Virginia, last month gave particular attention to the question of increasing its enrollment by admitting all or a few of the six colleges that applied for membership. After considerable debating over the matter, it was voted by the group to limit the number of teams in the Conference to sixteen, and to defer definite action on any particular schools until the 1935 session. Even though no place in the league was promised by the association, six institutions were named as the first that will be considered when the subject is again brought up. Two of these colleges are in the state of Virginia, Richmond University and William and Mary College; two are in South Carolina, The Citadel and Furman; and two in North Carolina, Wake Forest and Davidson.

It is hardly practical to assume that all six of these will be admitted, if any are taken in at the ensuing convention, but every indication points to the admittance of two or three of them. Now, the question arises as to who, if any, will be accorded bids. It seems that three schools, Davidson, Furman, and William and Mary, are the most likely candidates. We, of course, are particularly interested in Davidson’s prospects. Survey the facts that have accumulated during the past five years concerning this matter; some very enlightening information is revealed.

Davidson has met, during this time, more Southern Conference teams than any other non-conference team. It has engaged just as many as any team in the conference, and the record the Wildcats have obtained as to wins and losses is more imposing than those of several aggregations that are now in the ranks. The 1935 football schedule shows six out of nine games with Southern Conference teams, and, no doubt, the showing Davidson makes against these opponents will have a great deal to do with the outcome of its petition for a place in the Conference. Despite this possible drawback, the only reason Davidson should be withheld from membership in the Southern Conference next winter is that it is not the will of the present members to enlarge its ranks, and not because we are not worthy to hold a position in this association.

NOT “CAN YOU DO IT”? BUT “WILL YOU DO IT”?

ALTHOUGH we have been back to school scarcely a week since the Christmas holidays, we have settled down to the old routine again and the varied experiences incurred during the two weeks vacation now exist only as memories. The uppermost thought in our minds now is the dreaded period of examinations. How much more enjoyable school would be without the month of January. The first two weeks of it are spent in worried anticipation and procrastination and the last ten days or two weeks are spent in the actual “struggling through” with the tests of our previous four months’ work. This does not apply to all, but it does indeed to a majority. Some are so concerned as to even say that their holidays were made less pleasant by the thought of examinations which were to face them so soon after their return to school.

At this time of the year and before every examination period we hear numerous discussions as to why we shouldn't have them; “they are not fair,” and “they are not a true test of what we really know about a subject” are statements often heard. But all arguments of this nature can quickly be dismissed by the fact that if we had studied thoroughly and prepared daily, examinations would not cause us any anxiety at all. And everyone knows this to be true. However, it is not the intention here to point out the mistakes of the past. It is an exhortation to look to the future and take advantage of the present. Many of us have rather poor averages and seemingly a slim chance of passing certain subjects, yet in most cases it is not too late to remedy this situation. It is not a case of “Can you do it”? but “Will you do it”? There still remains a week before examinations begin. Why not spend all of your spare time during this week studying hard on the course or courses you are most uneasy about and thereby prevent the risk of having to attend summer school or remain here during the spring holidays to take a re-examination? Sacrifice the “bull sessions,” the shows, and that week-end trip. Hard work will never be regretted and it will be a source of great satisfaction after the examinations are over.

This approaching test period will be of particular significance and bearing to Freshmen and Seniors. For the Freshmen, it will be their first experience in college examinations. To the Freshmen we say study hard and keep that slate clean! The record you make your first year will have great influence on your remaining three years. For the Seniors, these examinations have a direct bearing on graduation, and every Senior realizes the importance of that. We sincerely hope that every student will try hard and have the best of luck and success on his examinations.

UPON THE SIGNIFICANCE OF NEW YEAR GREETINGS

AT THIS time of the year usually provokes in a thinking person a desire for expression in the form of New Year's wishes. The most of us, the “oi polloi,” give vent to this feeling by way of New Year’s Resolutions—dangerously incriminating if we intend to keep them, binding to conscience if we don’t intend to keep them. A rather childish mannerism, some might say, this custom of “resolving to refrain from a bad habit during the coming year.” Perhaps the form taken is the objectionable part of the practice. It does become rather embarrassing when it comes to carrying it out, and it often becomes a burden. Perhaps if another outlet could be found for this First of January enthusiasm, if it could be turned into other channels, it might fill the requirements of an extremely critical society. For we must admit to ourselves that we need to be reminded at times—possibly more often than simply once a year—that our life and character could stand some changes in the way of improvement.

What does it mean when someone wishes a friend a “Happy New Year”? Possibly just what it says. Possibly the person who is extending the greeting is happy and wishes to share his happiness with his friends. Possibly—in most cases this is true—this is just a stereotyped greeting adopted for the first few days after January 1. It carries no meaning whatever. To some, however, a “Happy New Year” means infinitely more than just the phrase. Under the word “new” in the Standard Dictionary, this definition is listed: “changed, in essence, construction, or force, usually for the better.” Why could this not be what our friends mean when they wish us “Happy New Year”? Why shouldn't our greeting carry a force like this? Why shouldn’t our outlet of New Year enthusiasm take this form? “I wish you a happy New Year” would show true friendship if it meant, “I wish for you that your life, your character, may be changed, happily, for the better, in force, essence, and construction, during the coming year.”

J. H. G.

“SELECTED PAPERS of PHINEAS SPOON.”

THE UTOPIA COMPLEX

Every twenty-four hours, a terrestrial mass had rolled around again on its axis. Men call this ball of dirt and stone and water “the earth.” I’ve never seen it. The physical geographer knows infinitely more about it than I. For them it has body and form. It is a morphological reality in the shape of continent and ocean masses. Symbols were invented to assist in the work of understanding. When I look at the cartographer’s conception of the thing, the denotation is quite clear. There it is on the maps—the pictorial boundaries of environment. It is the geographical representation of the milieu in which the outline of history is framed. Within the contours of those lines, all that I have read about transpired. It is the world. But the story of Mankind is half-told when the map-maker introduces us to the “world.” His physical arrangement of terrain and cities explains little that we have not before supposed. It is merely theProjection of a universal scale of the familiar environment in which much of our waking life has its locale. These are the symbols for the material things we have seen and felt. Cities and states set among rivers, valleys, woods, and hills in a realm of place and distance.

The maps describe the everyday province of human endeavor, where a dollar is hard to earn, and fortune is capricious. Where “men must work and women must weep,” where rust and moth corrupt, and thieves “break through to steal.”

But the philosophers have always been perched upon the horns of a dilemma. There is a dualism in the scheme of things our theorizing has never explained away. In a sense, Man is quite as much amphibian as the crocodile. He lives in two elements of equal reality. There is the world of matter and the realm of mind. It is the world outside and the world within. It is generally agreed that the primary dynamics of human nature are the “will to live” and the “will to love.” Add to these essentials another basic—the “will to make believe” and the work of analyzing the human phenomenon will be complete.

The realm of mind is that other world in which men pass so much of their time. It is a principality created by the “will to make believe.” Everything is transcendental in this other world of ideas. There is a perpetual moratorium of realities' rigors. Anything can happen on those musty flats of imagination because each man is his own laws and creator. It is a place where suppressed desires can find their wildest realization. They cannot clash with the rubber circumstances of “never-never-land.”

How merciful it was of the Great Designer to endow mankind with the faculty of transport into this province of “sweet supposing” out of the mechanical world of twelve inches to the foot and three meals to the day, an avenue of retreat has been provided. The magic casements of the mind open onto fairy lands accessible to imagination. Every soul that flies from reality by this route is a utopist. In his reverie, he is dwelling in that other world—the utopia-of-escape.

We all have our private utopias-of-escape. With tiny tots, it’s the land of Winken, Blinken, and Nod, where gingerbread houses nestle in groves of lollipop trees. In the robust days of later childhood, utopia is made of eternal stuff. Armed with a wooden cutlass, what youngster has not wiled away the hours of a summer afternoon under the Jolly Roger in the lusty company of Treasure Island’s shade? When the schoolgirl in her teens enjoys deliverances from mortal danger at the hands of her plumed knight, the utopia is essentially the same although the characters are in other costumes. It’s the same idea of a universal and omnipotent enabling act putting the quietus on all stingy realities.

Consider the humble factory girl. She buys a round trip ticket to Utopia on Saturday nights. Mentally she swoons in the adequate arms of her two-dimensioned lover on the screen. By remote control, she enjoys the ecstasy of a glorified love that the prosaics of her veritable existence deny her. She effects escape.

These private utopias, as havens of retreat, are as wholesome as they are indispensable. Without them, life would be mere existence, void of color and meaning. These castles in the air are mansions of fancy which house alter egos. Unlike ourselves, they achieve that to which we can only aspire. With impunity, they revel in the delight of things inhibition denies the fleshy counterpart; they intimately live with dreams devoutly to be wished...

PHINEAS SPOON

COMPASSING By Scotty McLrop

POST-HOLIDAY GREETINGS!

Yuletide gives way to Exam-tide for returning Davidsonians. A week from tomorrow the fretful things start here, closing the first semester of the 1934-35 session. Hail, Exam-tide!

CAMPUS PERSONALITIES

It’s time to offer the Centennials a belated felicitation on their splendid program of festivities as presented during Sophomore weekend. Johnny Long served some superb music and may be considered a worthy antecedent to Kay Kyser, our tune-dispenser for Midwinter hops.

We were certainly glad when Dr. Lingle suggested to the student body the abatement of applause for musical selections played in chapel. Why the custom ever began is mysterious. It has not been practiced in previous years and must be a freshman innovation. Besides being out of keeping with the true reverent spirit of the chapel hour, it is a tiresome nuisance to clap morning after morning for an ordinary organ prelude to a religious service. We are indebted to Dr. Lingle for having it stopped.

Now that the Watts-Georgia excitement has subsided, we wonder if it would be out of the way to suggest that East and West dorms institute an intramural program of athletic rivalry. Make it an East-West contest, don’t you know. Then if Rumple could scare up a team to play the barracks, we would have some fun. Why not organize a Dormitory Conference? The winner of East-West competition plays the winner in the Watts-Georgia fray, and the finals go off between that team and the victorious squad of the Barracks-Rumple tilt. Very simple, and then one dormitory would be the Campus Champion instead of a one-game winner. We offer the suggestion subject to further consideration.

CAMPUS PERSONALITIES

A. J. Porter: Here we have a man; a military man with appeal. Stern militarist outwardly but really a very friendly fellow. Another Barium gift to the Wildcat Lair. Phi Delta Theta Senior and an all-round athlete, student, and friend.

Bos Coir: One of the very few men who became Phi Bete and O. D. K. at Davidson. Serious, but not too serious to be one of the best-liked men on the Hill. Elected Freshman Adviser. Rooms in Rumple, seat of many bull sessions. Hails from Richmond, Va.

Duke Glasgow: Defeated candidate in Ugly Contest held here recently. He lost by a nose. Girls like him for some reason and he likes them for some reason. Been on the campus one weekend since school started and still going strong as ever. Popular, intelligent, clever, and a good talker. Another Senior among the Phi Delts.

OUR CONTEMPORARIES By Ed Bowers

Washington and Lee

The famous Siamese twins, Viola and Daisy Hilton, spent December 10th in the town of W & L. They narrowly escaped serious injury when the automobile in which they were riding overturned. Neither of the twins was hurt. Employees at the Robert E. Lee Hotel were completely baffled by the manner in which they were able to do things at the same time and especially the way in which they walked through doorways without the slightest inconvenience.

Isham Jones and his orchestra have been signed for the W & L costume ball to be held soon. This event has become probably the most popular on the South’s social calendar.

Colleginia

“The funniest thing that we have seen in the United States was a college reporter at Emory College,” said John Gripps, a member of the Oxford University debating team now touring the United States. ... The Budapest University has purchased an oak tree that is thought to be 1,500 years old. It weighs 20 tons and will be used for experimental purposes. ... At Boston University, a psychology professor has abolished note-taking because he believes such work substitutes the hand for the brain and offers a poor substitute for the lecture. ... A notice in the Boston University News asks all co-eds to keep away from the football team until after a certain game and is signed by the coach. ... At the University of Georgia, if a co-ed marries a man who is not a student of the University she must withdraw from the school, and if he is a student, then they both must withdraw for one of three quarters. ... The women at William and Mary have an annual manless dance. ... Directors at the University of Oxford in England once voted not to install baths in the dormitories because the students only attended school eight months in a year. ... The students at the University of Michigan had mass meetings in order to protest that school’s ruling which did not allow Willis Ward, star negro football player, to participate in the game between Michigan and Georgia Tech. ... For the first time in seventy years, dancing is to be permitted at Texas Christian University. ... Dr. Walter Williams, president of the University of Missouri, is the only college president who has not graduated from college. ... The players at Sewanee University have a scholastic average higher than the average for the entire student body. ... At the University of California at Los Angeles, candidates for student officers have to be heavily guarded by police to prevent their being kidnapped by their opponents. ... Medicine and engineering are the most popular of the courses chosen by Brown University freshmen. ... At Denver University, male freshmen are thrown out of football games if caught bringing a date with them.

Binty Ravenel: Popular member of the well-known “bird-in-the-cage” trio of Guerrant, Munro, and Ravenel, who always enliven Pan-Hellenic affairs. Is eternally bothering the guests of Georgia Arms with his pseudo-music and attempts at dramatic oratorios. Good one for bull sessions. One of the Kappa Sig football heroes.

United in spirit and aim
Initiative in Biblical research
Never failing in loyalty to Christ
Onward pressing to universal brotherhood
Neglecting never to follow the Light
Spiritually-minded; Scripturally-living
Endeavoring to uphold His commands
Ministering for the Master
In scholarship not inexpert
Nearness to truthful interpretation
Always seeking spiritual progress
Reaching out in service

UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY
RICHMOND, VA.

Yearning to bring all to Him!

STATIONERY
1143 E. FOURTH ST.
CALLING CARDS
Fine Printing
QUEEN CITY PRINTING CO.
Printers of THE DAVIDSONIAN, and of the DAVIDSON COLLEGE ALUMNI JOURNAL
PROGRAMS
CHARLOTTE, N. C.