THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 25, 1935

The Davidsonian
Founded by the Class of 1915
Associated Collegiate Press
1934 Collegiate Digest 1935
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Printed by the QUEEN CITY PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate year.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879.

ARTICLES FOR PUBLICATION must be in the hands of Managing Editors by 4:00 o'clock p.m., Monday. Letters to the Editor
are welcome, but all communications intended for publication must be signed.

Editor
LAMONT BROWN

Business Manager
R. P. MORROW

EDITORIAL STAFF
W. M. MORTON - Managing Editor
HOWELL QURRTON - Managing Editor
HAROLD SUGG - Managing Editor
DAYMOND TURNER - Managing Editor
NORRIS WINN - Managing Editor
HARRY KENDALL - Sports Editor
MARTIN BARNETT - Associate Editor
HUBERT CLARK - Associate Editor
PAUL HARLAN - Associate Editor
TOM MARCHANT - Associate Editor
NORRIS WATERS - Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
CHARLES MAUCK - Circulation Manager
BILL SWOFFORD - Circulation Manager
BOB VANCE - Advertising Manager
RED ROBINSON - Collection Manager
BILL DYER - Business Manager

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 1935

Wisdom is knowing what to do next. Skill is knowing how to do it, and virtue is doing it. —David
Starr Jordan.

FRESHMEN, BE MEN...
Before a freshman has rid himself of the dust of his journey to Davidson, he hears it proclaimed about him
that “Davidson is different from other colleges.” It is quite proper that every new student should be oriented upon these
traditional unusualities, but at the same time it is equally appropriate that he should be reminded that Davidson is like
every other college in that it expects its students to be MEN.

Too often emphasis is put upon the “fresh” in freshman, and in consequence, first-year men launch their college careers with
a defensive attitude. They feel almost compelled to be “smart alecky” fresh in their conduct, when, as a matter of
fact, they are fresh only in the sense that they are new on the campus. There will be times during
your initial year that you, members of the class of 1939, will be strongly inclined to reply curtly to some
seemingly indiscreet upperclassmen; there will be times when you will feel almost compelled to overstep the bounds of Davidson freshmen;
you will often be tempted to take part in such unpleasant conduct as “booing” and “hissing,” that, unfortunately, some prep
schoolish members of the student body persistently engage themselves, and there will be many other temptations arising to lure you
away from the path of a college gentleman.

These are the things that the army would call means of “separating the men from the boys,” and without mama
or papa here to choose for you it is entirely a matter to be settled by yourself. So take this
as a greeting of suggestion, not advising you, but reminding you that Davidson expects you to be freshMEN, always remembering
that you are yet novices on the college campus, but at the same time realizing that you are part of
Davidson, and are striving to become real Davidson MEN.

PASS IT ON...
“Wildcat spirit” is a household expression among Davidson alumni and students. It is a tradition of which Davidson is proud
and for which she is known throughout the southland. It is a real thing that can only be acquired by
constant association with those who have absorbed its intangible overwhelming power. Sophomores, Juniors, and Seniors should be possessed with this
indomitable spirit, and it behooves them to pass it on to the first-year men, who are anxious to sense the
feeling that one has when he is filled with this indescribable animation.

Davidson would be lost at times without such a wonderful motivating force to carry her forward in the face of
apparently insurmountable odds. “Wildcat spirit” is a great dynamo of collected human minds and wills, that generates an irresistible current
giving to Davidson illumination and power. It is immeasurable in its scope and invaluable in its strength, and for any
man to come to Davidson and not realize the presence of this unequaled spirit in himself is like traveling through
the western United States without seeing the Grand Canyon. Let’s pass it on to the neophytes on the Davidson campus
in order that it might continue to be the grand nexus in which all Davidson, past and present, might be
united.

RUSHING—A NEW IDEA...
This editorial is not an attempt toward offering any fool-proof, flawless plan for rushing season, but it is intended as
merely the suggestion of a system that has been heartily approved by several very level-headed men on the Davidson campus
as an improvement over the course followed during the immediately past rush period.

In many schools, the old type fall-rushing-pledging process is being changed. This is due very largely to the fact that
casualties have been entirely too numerous and costly. Fraternities, in spite of their usual strenuous opposition to delayed pledging, are
finding that it is a good practical policy to have more time to look over their potential brothers before casting
the final die. And freshmen, or rushees, given a semester or two to come to their own conclusions regarding the
worth of fraternities individually and collectively, will be in a position to give or withhold loyalty with something like conscious
judgment.

Chapters at Davidson may not be bothered with this problem to any great extent, but it certainly seems reasonable to
assume that a man can't get a fair idea of the life and conduct of a fraternity in the short
period that Davidson rush seasons allow, nor is the lodge itself able to size up perfectly the qualities of a
man being considered for bidding. There are other angles toward which the delayed rushing plan could be approached, but with
the above-mentioned idea in mind, you can place around it the many factors that are involved in the whole rushing
system.

If a man is going to have three months in which to form an opinion concerning the fraternity with which
he will choose to be for four years, his thoughts regarding it can be weighed with the utmost care. He
can put himself imaginatively in the various groups and in most cases see just exactly how he would fit in
with them all. He can learn about the standing of the fraternities on the campus, and see the members as
they are, naturally. To boil the whole situation into one sentence, he will be able to choose his fraternity in
an intelligent fashion rather than by tying himself to the group he saw last or the one he had planned
to join before he came to college, because some member he knew back in Plum Nellie told him that those
boys had the most money, the most parties, or the girls like them better than any other fraternity group on
the hill.

Of course, someone might say that the fraternities would have to rush all semester, and consequently an excessive expense burden
would be laid upon every chapter. If the plan were inaugurated without rules to hold it within bounds of reason,
tremendous amounts of money could and would be expended, but the idea in mind provides for very stringent rules in
this respect.

As was stated at the outset, no claims of infallibility are made of this idea, but it is submitted as
a better means of rushing than is now employed on the Davidson campus. It is firmly believed that if the
deferred plan could be worked at Davidson, with the following regulations, it would prove to be a very much better
system than any heretofore used:

1. No rushee will be permitted to enter any fraternity house between the date that classes begin for the first
semester and the date that they begin for the second semester.
2. No fraternity will be permitted to have any sort of function on or off the campus at which rushees
are present.
3. The actual rushing period shall not exceed three days, and no fraternity will be permitted to rush any man
off the college campus during this period.
4. For violation of any of the above regulations, a fraternity will be subject to fine, at the discretion of
the Pan-Hellenic council.

Other minor rules could be added, but these give an idea of the plan as it has been successfully tried
on other campuses and as I believe it could be equally as well worked out here at Davidson.

TAKE EXERCISE...
According to the present faculty rule, all Juniors and Seniors who are not taking R.O.T.C., are required to call by
Heath Whittle’s office at least once a month and sign a pledge to the effect that they have taken an
hour’s exercise, in any form of athletics, at least three times a week. Attention has been called to the fact
that last year a number of students failed to get in their exercises but signed up anyway. Whether this can
be attributed to dishonesty or carelessness is not our concern at present. However, we do feel that where a personfails
to realize the benefits that will be his in building up a strong body, something should be done to point
out his folly. Gentlemen—take advantage of this splendid opportunity. You benefit greatly.

DAVIDSON off the RECORD
By HAROLD SUGG

A short ten days ago two hundred and fifty-five freshmen trickled into Davidson and were cordially hailed by (1) Rushing
Chairmen and (2) Boarding managers: the “epitome of congeniality and the acme of friendliness.” Midst such favorable welcome, stood before
the vista of a college life fraught with football games, laundry-carrying, bull-sessions, and Christmas holidays. No doubt, many will be
surprised to learn that one studies at college and thinks seriously, motion pictures to the contrary.

House 255 Russian season ended with 115 pledges, 211 bad colds, and very little ‘seeing red” in contrast with last
year’s ill-feeling. The length this year was about right, although rushing should be banned as violating the gambling law. Seven
freshmen refused bids because they had always heard Phi Beta Kappa was the best fraternity and they wanted to wait
and look them over. Judging by the b Let’s Have A Well Rounded Year pledged by some of the lodges,
several Greek orders are in need of new furniture.

Davidson men, ever gregarious, were seen together in quite a few spots this summer. Twenty-nine of the good boys were
jammed together in that sweltering of humanity-trying-to-be-happy: the June Germain in Rocky Mount. It was a great affair and among
the number were Johnny Moseley, with his charming brunette cousin; Bill Yelverton, Howell, Tom Corbin, Reg Harris, George Mathis, and
Johnson. Davidson's colony at Myrtle Beach rose and fell with the weekends. Dave Sellars had more of a good time
than anyone else. Morris Peabody spent his time chasing tivens, mass Biscoe Job up and down the beach and Ed
in his off hours, worked at a Chinese Junk. The Covington Ed Armfield, Tom Breeden, John Partridge, Mal Grimes, and
Charlie Thompson were there intermittently. Not so gregariously were Henry Belk, Bob Lindsay, and Howard Summerell. Henry went to Europe;
Lindsay—dignified BMOC—was a bellhop on a Havana, Panama, California bound liner, and Summerell South America. Howard is the guy who
told a freshman that “Greenville, North Carolina, is the biggest town of its size in the state.”

A number of students stayed over to see how the serial “The Lost City” ended. Queerly enough, the hero married
the heroine, the villain repented, and the cause of the trouble, “The Lost City,” was destroyed with the arch-field, Zola.
Our old friend, Bill Atwater, was President of the Student Body and we find Sam Hutaff Student Councilling. Bud Hardin
of lag Moose (Banner Elk) was one of the horse-shoe champions and all in all, it was “a successful summer
session.” It was a merry summer in more ways than one. Grier Martin got married as did our YMCA director,
Ab McClure. Tyler Port learns that even excellent announcing has its drawbacks. He had a girl down for the Elon
game who came after the kickoff and left immediately after the game. By talking real fast Tyler was able to
finish in time to tell her goodbye. My mailbox is like a convent. No Mail.

HASH ~ As indefinite as a the faculty reception. A. J. Stevens, Biscoe Howell, Billy Hill, and Bob Lindsey at
the Kappa Sig convention in Richmond, Lamont Brown at the SAE conclave at Evanston. Carl Carlson and John Moseley at
the Baer-Braddock freshman’s name at Over One Hundred At Summer School

The session of summer school held for six weeks last summer was considered unusually successful. One hundred and fifteen students
were registered during the period from June seventh to July nineteenth. This is an increase of eighteen percent over the
registration of the 1934 session. During the six weeks, ten courses were given. Bible, English, Geography, Zoology, French, Mathematics, Spanish,
Physics, and Political Science were taught by Professors Schenck, Erwin, Porter, Lyon, Bailey, McGavock, Blythe, Douglas, and Currie respectively. An
addition to the usual summer school faculty, Miss Alma Browning, teaching Education, was heartily welcomed. This extra course was an
improvement over former summer sessions held by Davidson College.

OUR CONTEMPORARIES DEFINITION... We are indebted to the DUKE CHRONICLE for the following gem: “Freshman—noun; a male or female spending
time and money in a concentration camp known as a college; one of mature body but juvenile mind; an egotist
by nature; synonyms: rat, frosh, Mr. (or Miss) Dumbjohn.”

RESTRICTION ... And, lest our local neophytes feel mistreated, we append rat rules from some institutions. At Duke: the year
men must not wear any prep school jewelry, walk on the grass, sit down in the lobby while the orchestra
is playing after football games. They must, among other things, come to the dining room fully dressed and be prepared
to give a three-minute speech at any time.

THE REVEILLE announces regulations set up by a Junior Class Vigilance committee. All freshmen must have military haircuts; wear black
socks and black ties; use the pre-sors ta oMy#;- attention when addressing upperclassmen; fix and wear freshman caps, and come
to the evening meal, dates to knock on upperclassmen’s doors before entering. Also, they must remain in rooms during study
hours, leaving only with permission of a Cadet Officer or Cadet Sergeant. These decrees are in effect until after the
Tulane game. In the event of a Tulane victory, they remain in force until after the Christmas holidays.

FASHION NOTE... THE JOHNSONIAN tells of the Freshman who wrote Dr. Phelps to ask whether she should wear her shirt-tail
in or out. The reply is not given. From the same source, we learn that blouses will be permitted at
Winthrop this year in pastel shades only.

HERE ’N THERE... “When you graduate from the school of experience, your diploma is a tombstone” blurbs the A. S.
T. C. APPALACHIAN. The Honorable Josephus Daniels, United States Ambassador to Mexico, offers a medal for the best essay on
some phase of American journalism contributed to THE WAKE FOREST STUDENT, a monthly literary publication of the Baptist college.

The following trousers regulation prevails on the campus of Missouri School of Mines: “The Seniors, of course, may wear anything
they please; Juniors, anything but whipcord or moleskin; Sophomores, anything but whipcord, moleskin, or corduroy; and last but not least
the lowly Freshman, who is prohibited from wearing the above and also khaki, must just about resort to blue denim
to keep himself covered.” Tea dances were given at the Ark on four consecutive afternoons last week to assist Duke
Freshmen in social orientation. From P. C. a BLUE STOCKING columnist, ayers that a thin man has a longer hangover
than a fat one, tells of the Georgia boy who was found lugubriously circling a monument crying: “By George! I'm
walled in!”

Commencement Invitations
Fraternity Publications
1143 E. FOURTH ST.
Lamont Brown
Fine Printing
QUEEN CITY PRINTING CO.
Representatives
Visiting Cards
Personal and Fraternity Stationery
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
R. P. Morrow

“Compare The NEWS” From DAVIDSONIANS of Years Gone By

FIVE YEARS AGO
The Davidson Wildcats smothered Elon in the opening grid contest by a score of 38-0. Student enrollment is the largest
on record with six hundred and nineteen attending Davidson. Rushing Season will end Friday night, ending a two-week period. Davidson
Wildcats to clash with N. C. State Saturday for the first night game ever played by the Davidson team. Rev.
H. G. Bedinger, class of ‘11, is serving as President of Flora Macdonald College at Red Springs, succeeding Dr. C.
G. Vardell, Class of '88. Student Store has completed the new organization.

TEN YEARS AGO
Davidson Wildcats defeated Elon by a score of 54-0. Nick Sappenfield, quarterback of the team and president of the Student
Body, was injured in the first quarter of the game. Marion Bruce “Monk” Mattox of Leesville, Va., and former star
on W. & L. teams, was added to the coaching staff as Freshmen football coach. The Freshman football team is
rounding into shape and the prospects look good. Seven men are awarded the Golden Quills by the members of the
Reporters Club. Fall Tennis tournament to open next Monday.

FIFTEEN YEARS AGO
Fifty-eight Freshmen, aspiring to be orators, were initiated into the Literary Societies. The Wildcats will meet N. C. State in
the first game of the season. R. L. Rogers will be Major in command of the R.O.T.C. Battalion. Dr. Martin
spoke to the students at the “Y” Vespers on, “What shall my life work be?” Six men were initiated into
Delta Pi Kappa, journalistic fraternity. A modern up-to-date laundry has been erected just behind Georgia Dormitory. Dr. Frazer Hood, prominent
professor of Psychology, is a distinctive addition to Davidson's faculty.
