THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 13, 1935

’CATS LOSE TO V. P. I. GRAPPLERS

In the Field of Sports

BASKETBALL TEAM HAS SUCCESSFUL CAMPAIGN AS FELIS IS ‘EM

by MANNON BROWN

“TARZAN” SHIREY

One could hardly see for looking in the Wildcat's lair Saturday with so much going on to attract the eye. However, Felix the gentleman who covers his domain like a roof, allowed very little to escape the range of his peepers, and here he is to make his report:

While watching the Wildcat gridders engage in their first intra-squad game of the winter practice session I heard Luther “Tarzan” Shirey discussing with some of his friends the wrestling match the Davidson team was to have with V. P. I. that night. The friends began to kid him about the way in which his much heavier opponent would tie him into knots when they met on the mat. “Tarzan” took it all quite philosophically and presently he replied, with ‘Popeye’-boldness, “he'd better watch out, boys, cause I eats my spinach.”

Those were certainly true words uttered by that Wildcat grappler. When the time came for him to tackle his foe from V. P. I. Shirey stepped on to the canvas weighing 155 pounds and the Virginia lad tipped the scales at 210. It was really a typical enactment of a “Popeye” bout. Despite Luther's losing the match, he stayed with the hefty grunter for ten minutes and prevented him from scoring a fall, which would have given the gobblers another two points.

Shirey was wrestling in the unlimited weight replacing Captain Charlie Fort, who went to the infirmary a week ago with the mumps. Discrediting neither Shirey nor his opponent, I feel reasonably confident that Fort could have taken the measure of the unlimited grappler from V. P. I., in which case Davidson would have been victorious. But that is only what might have been.

MEET AGAIN

Two loyal Wildcat supporters never fail to meet on Richardson Field when there is anything of an athletic nature going on there. They are Dr. Albert Sidney Johnson, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church in Charlotte, and Mr. Joe Johnston, President of the Davidson Alumni Association, and Superintendent of Barium Springs Orphanage. Saturday was no exception. The Alumni President arrived first, but soon afterward Dr. Johnson entered the stadium and began to look for his Barium friend.

It is no longer necessary for them to make engagements to see one another, if one desires to consult the other all he must do is come to Davidson and in all probability find him awaiting on Richardson Field.

They both have sons on the Davidson football squad, so their interest is not unwarranted, and even if this wasn’t the case their support is heartily welcomed by the Wildcats.

PIKA GAGERS

Every man in the starting lineup for the Wildcat cagers Saturday night when they met Elon is a member of the Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity. This combination works plenty smoothly too. Perhaps the mutual fraternal affiliation is an incentive to better team work.

I was told not many days past by a backfield star on a certain prominent southern football team that on his club he had to make his own way when it was his turn to carry the ball unless there were some of his fraternity brothers in the line-up to block for him.

BRIGHT GRID HOPES

Coaches ‘Doc’ Newton and Gene McEver are rounding into shape a lot of powerful promising looking football candidates these days. The game Saturday was a little ragged for the most part, but ‘there's gold in them thar hills,’ and the Wildcat mentors are rapidly mining and molding it into attractive ornaments for the Wildcat eleven.

The Davidson grid aggregation of 1935 should be a superior eleven to the one last season, and you may lay to that.

NPL. MATMEN BEAT DAVIDSON BY 17-13 SCORE

Captain Fort Unable to Compete In Matches On Account Of Sickness

SHIREY REPLACES FORT

Davidson Gets Two Falls And One Time Advantage

V. P. I. defeated the Davidson matmen last Saturday night in the local gym by gaining four time advantages and one fall in the eight matches while the Davidson grapplers won two falls and one time advantage. The final score was 17 to 13. The match was exciting throughout and the outcome was not decided until the final bout between Dailey of V. P. I. and Shirey of Davidson, the former winning by time advantage.

Captain Charles Fort is in the infirmary with a case of mumps and was unable to join his teammates against the Gobblers. The absence of Fort put the Wildcats at a tremendous disadvantage, forcing Shirey to fight out of his class against a man who outweighed him some forty or fifty pounds. This was the first defeat Davidson has suffered during the current season. V. P. I. brought a strong team to Davidson which are worthy representatives of that school’s reputation in wrestling fame. Coach Tilson has developed a group of skillful, cool-headed, matmen who have enjoyed a successful tour through North Carolina. The Gobbler wrestlers are particularly adept at tying up their opponents' arms, causing them no little difficulty.

Parker, 135 lb. Wildcat, made short work of his man. He applied a punishing head scissors to Allison in the opening moments of their bout and in three minutes Allison was pinned to the mat. Parker, in his first year of varsity competition, has shown marked ability and his aggressive determination is likely to carry him far in the game. Quarterman, veteran Wildcat grappler, showed complete mastery over his opponent, winning by a fall in 5 minutes and 30 seconds. Leroy Blackwelder defeated Bell of V. P. I. with a time advantage of 8 minutes. Blackwelder has remained undefeated this season and has shown a remarkable degree of improvement since last year. He is unusually strong and very agile. Polk Moffatt, Davidson sophomore, lost a heart-breaker to Evans of V. P. I. Evans pinned Moffatt’s shoulders to the mat only ten seconds before the whistle blew ending the match.

The Wildcats journey to Chapel Hill Thursday to meet the Carolina team. Later in the season a match has been scheduled with State.

Summary of the V. P. I. Match—118 pounds: Evans, V. P. I., won over Moffatt, Davidson, Fall 9.50. 126 pounds: Minter, V. P. I., won over Thompson, Davidson, Time advantage, 7.48. 135 pounds: Parker, Davidson, won over Allison, V. P. I., Fall 3.05. 155 pounds: Quarterman, Davidson, won over Gooden, V. P. I., Fall 5.13. 165 pounds: Priode, V. P. I., won over Hodgin, Davidson, Time advantage 1.11. 175 pounds: Blackwelder, Davidson, won over Bell, V. P. I., Time advantage 8.05. Unlimited: Dailey, V. P. I., won over Shirey, Davidson, Time advantage 9:00.

Take Three

Reid, Barrow, And Kieswetter Outstanding Kitten Loopers On Virginia Prep School Invasion

Last Saturday afternoon Coach Grier Martin’s Wildkitten basketeers defeated the Darlington Tigers 38-31 on the local court. They exhibited a greatly improved offense which enabled them to maintain a fairly comfortable lead throughout and win handily.

Captain Wade Barrow, Dan Iverson, and Reid led the local attack with eleven, nine, and eight points respectively. Kieswetter also played well. Byars and Trotter were outstanding for the visitors. The former was high scorer with thirteen points to his credit, and his all-around play was of high caliber. Trotter displayed a deadly eye for the basket, caging four shots from well behind the foul line.

The Kittens returned Friday from a successful invasion of Virginia prep school circles. Monday afternoon the yearlings reached Lynchburg and practiced in the Virginia Episcopal School gym. Tuesday night they played a strong team from Augusta Military Academy and the Kittens were beaten by a score of 34-22. The following night they defeated Fishburne Military Academy at Waynesboro 34-30. Woodberry likewise bowed to the Kittens by a score of 24-16. Coach Martin said his team played brilliant basketball on the trip, showing up much better than they have been on the home court. Players making the trip were Barrow, Iverson, and Kieswetter, forwards; Reid, Harris and Moyer, guards; and Rhinehardt and Cline, centers. Reid, Barrow, and Kieswetter were outstanding for the Kittens. Their play Saturday showed much improvement over their last showing here a fortnight ago against the Tar Babies of Carolina.

U. OF N.C. HOSTS TO CAT CAGEMEN

Davidson Team To Meet Wake Forest Quintet In Raleigh, Wednesday

Fresh from three straight victories of the past week, the 1935 edition of Wildcat cagers swing around the Old North State this week and by the time this humble page has gone to press will have played Duke University, who defeated them by a small margin early in the season. Tonight they take on the Tar Heel team from the University of North Carolina, leaders of the Southern Conference and previous victors over Davidson by a score of 36-26. Saturday night the basketball team will play High Point College, leaders of the Little Six, and resting for a few days, play Wake Forest Wednesday at Raleigh.6, the first time in a few years that a Wildcat basketball team has been so favored, the team bids fair to make it three out of four on this invasion, despite the quality of opposing teams. Carolina is the Southern Conference leader and Duke is second. In recent games, Duke has beaten Carolina and has beaten Army which also beat Carolina. Yet the Blue Devils were able to vanquish the ‘Cats by only a four-point margin in early season while the Heels made it 10. High Point College is at present topping the percentage column in the Little Six and should offer tough opposition. The Deacons have not done so well, having yet to break in the win column. They lost 40-25 to Duke and humbled themselves before Carolina by an 18-point margin.

Davidson Matmen Plan Meet At Chapel Hill

Davidson's wrestling team will have its third match against college competition when the Wildcats meet the Carolina grapplers at Chapel Hill Friday night. The Wildcat team will leave Davidson Thursday night and will probably return Saturday. It is still uncertain whether Captain Fort will be able to wrestle Friday night, but in case he is unable, Lawrence Quarterman will act as captain and Luther Shirey will wrestle in the unlimited class. Other than these, there are practically no other changes in the lineup. The Carolina team has a group of skillful and aggressive wrestlers, who will be a real threat to the local grapplers. In the Carolina-V. P. I. match, the former team was victorious, so according to comparative scores, which are in no way reliable, Carolina has the edge over Davidson. If the local wrestlers are victorious in the match Friday night, Davidson meets State for the State championship. The following is a tentative lineup of the Davidson team for the Carolina match: Moffett, 118 lbs; Allen or Thompson, 126 lbs; Parker, 135 lbs; Owens, 145 lbs; Quarterman, 155 lbs; Hodgin, 165 lbs; Blackwelder, 175 lbs; and Shirey, unlimited.

GINDER PATH SEEKING TALENT

Monday Is Last Day New Track Candidates Can Report For Practice

Captain Norton G. Pritchett, director of athletics and track coach, has announced that anyone who wishes to come out for track should report by next Monday at the latest, except those who are out for winter sports. Pritchett stated that men who haven't taken any part in the conditioning work of winter track would not be allowed to participate in spring track. Captain Pritchett also stated that the team needed anyone who thinks he has any ability along these lines, especially in sprints, since none of last year's sprinters have returned to school this year. The track candidates have been practicing since exams were over, and are rapidly getting into shape for several indoor meets which have been scheduled. Davidson will send a team to the indoor meet to be held in Charlotte next Monday night. This meet will be an invitational affair and only those will be sent who have turned in good marks in the past. Earle Frazier will be sent and also probably Johnny Lee, Archie McFadyen, Billy Merchant, and perhaps a hurdler and a sprinter. Davidson will also be represented by a team at the Southern Conference indoor meet at Chapel Hill on March 9. The Wildcats this year have the fullest outdoor track schedule in the history of this sport here.

WHITES EKE OUT WIN OVER REDS

Muddy Field Mars Passes Practice Clash Saturday Afternoon

Davidson's football candidates, now participating in winter gridiron exercises, went through a practice game last Saturday on Richardson Field to feature a 7-6 victory by the “Whites” over the “Reds”. The winning tally came as a result of a play in which Paul Pittman of the Reds, on the point of being mobbed by a host of Whites, heaved the pigskin through the air in a forlorn attempt to allay a 15-yard loss, only to have it intercepted by “Teeny” Lafferty, who immediately checked out on a 60-yard jaunt to the promised land. Hack Sanders accounted for the point, which later proved the winning margin.

In the last few minutes of the game, the Reds, who had worked themselves deep into enemy territory, took advantage of the Whites' “closed in” pass defense, with Pittman twirling the oval through the ether to Fields Young, elongated end for the final score of the game. Pittman's kick for extra point was blocked. Due to a wet field, numerous fumbles occurred to add to the ragged appearance of the teams. This was caused to a great extent by the fact that several shifts have been made by Coaches Newton and McEver in order to plug up the holes made by the graduation of Hand, Fort, Lee, Morgan, Potter, Siewers, Batte, Brewer, Wingfield, Mackorell, and Hutchins. Consequently, with this factor staring them in the face, the coaches have made several changes, particularly the following: Ed Armfield, formerly at Tackle, has now taken position in the backfield; Morris Freeman, 200-pound tackle, is being tried at right end, and Dick Cathey has been put at the pivot position. Hogan, Lafferty, Denis, and Harrison, all rising Sophomores, looked particularly good in Saturday's scrimmage and will be relied upon next fall as replacements for the famous pony backs of '34. Dick Johnson, Tom Corbin, and Bud Hunter performed in expected fashion, while “Chief Katwonk” Sanders served respectively as Baxter Yarborough and mainstays in the backfields of the Reds and Whites. “Pinkie” Stowe, rising sophomore who recently reported for practice, provided one of the highlights of Saturday with his ardent and enthusiastic “scrimmage” with the new blocking machine. Stowe should prove ample replacement for “Tubby” Hand in the line.

The lineup for Saturday's scrimmage was as follows:

Whites
Nicholson - LE
McClung - LG
Clark - Center
D. Johnston - RG
Hunter - RT
Freeman - RE
Pittman - QB
Lafferty - HB
Denis - HB
Sanders - FB

Reds
Goodman - LT
Vass - LG
Burns - Center
Brown - RG
Young - RT
Pittman - QB
Yarborough - HB
Verble - HB
Corbin - FB

Cat Cagers Take Pair Of Hard Fought Games

Basketball Team Defeats Charlotte “Y” 35-31 In Game At Paw Creek

JIM MORGAN STARS

Loopsters Eke Out 45-43 Win Over Elon Christians

Continuing their custom of winning or losing games by a margin of only a few points, the Wildcat basketeers added two more hard-earned victories to their record last week. On Thursday night of last week, they met the Charlotte Y. M. C. A. quintet at Paw Creek and won by the narrow margin of 35-31. The game was close all the way through, neither team being able to gain a safe lead. At the half, Davidson held a slight lead of three points and managed to hang on to it throughout the remainder of the game. Charlie Harris was the high scorer of the game with a total of twelve points. Bill Quick also contributed a great deal to the Wildcat victory. For the Charlotte Y, Edwards was the star, well supported by Fort and others. Edwards is a former U. N. C. athlete who is now coaching at Paw Creek.

On last Saturday, the Wildcats eked out the other victory in a free-scoring battle with Elon College by a three-point margin, 46-43. This contest also turned out to be a nip and tuck affair, the final result of which was in doubt until the last minute. A large crowd of spectators witnessed the game, which was part of last Saturday's feature athletic program, in which four squads participated in three different sports to make the occasion the most complete program ever put on so far this year in the local gym. “Big Jim” Morgan, star Davidson center, made a sensational scoring spurt in the first half, ringing up a total of ten points in that period, only to subside in the second half and finish the game without adding but one other point. Roye of Elon was the high scorer of the game with a total of sixteen points marked down to his credit. Smith’s play for the visiting team was also outstanding.

Lineups for the Elon game were:

Davidson (46)
Moore - RF
Harris - LF
Morgan - Center
Peabody - RG
Quick - LG

Elon (43)
Tuck - RF
Smith - LF
Bradley - Center
Roye - RG
Cheek - LG

Seniors Defeat Frosh In Soccer Tournament

The Seniors defeated the Freshmen and the Juniors tied the Sophomores in the first games of Soccer, an innovation on this campus, during the past week. Led by Captain Audley Gammon, the Seniors scored a 2-0 victory over Captain Sam Cothran and his boys. Starring for the Seniors were Bob Coit, “Dud” Elvery, Gammon, and “Dopey” McCall. For the Freshmen, Cothran, Charlie Bixler, “Buddy” Rainey, and Howard MacFadyen shared the limelight. Both the Juniors, led by Capt. Arthur Haake, and the Sophomores, led by Kenneth Scott, succeeded in making one point apiece. Stars for the Juniors were John McMullan, Bill Bell, Haake, and Eddie Donnigan; for the Centennials, Scott, Frank Brown, Bill Link, and Gene Vogler.

The schedule for this week is as follows: Tuesday, the Seniors played the Sophomores; today, the Juniors vs. Freshmen; Thursday, Seniors vs. Juniors; Friday, Sophomores vs. Freshmen.

Featuring Kay Kayser and His Orchestra

SUPPER DANCING AND ENTERTAINMENT

Thursday and Saturday 9 P. M. Till Closing

The management is happy to announce that Kay Kayser and his orchestra will play in the main dining room. We have SPRING SUITS and are featuring the new raglan sleeve Sports Suits.