THE DAVIDSONIAN » DECEMBER 4, 1935

The Davidsonian
Founded by the Class of 1915
1935 Member 1936
Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Printed by the QUEEN CITY PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate year.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879.

ARTICLES FOR PUBLICATION must be in the hands of Managing Editors by 4:00 o'clock p.m., Monday. Letters to the Editor
are welcome, but all communications intended for publication must be signed.

LAMONT BROWN ........ Editor
R. P. MORROW, Jr. . . . . Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
WILLIAM MORTON ........ Managing Editor
LOWELL OVERTON ........ Managing Editor
HAROLD SUGG ........ Managing Editor
RAYMOND TURNER ........ Managing Editor
JOHN E. WING ........ Managing Editor
HARRY KUYKENDALL ........ Sports Editor
MARTIN BARNARD ........ Associate Editor
HARVEY GLASS ........ Associate Editor
PAUL HANDAN ........ Associate Editor
MOM MARCHANIN ........ Associate Editor
JOHN WALKER ........ Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
CHARLES MAUZER ........ Circulation Manager
BILL SWOPE ........ Circulation Manager
BOB VANCE ........ Circulation Manager
HOKE ROBINSON ........ Advertising Manager
BIGGS ........ Collection Manager
BILL DEVERER ........ Assistant Business Manager

WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 4, 1935

Where there is no vision, the people perish: but he that keepeth the law, happy is he.—Prov. 29:18.

PARAGRAPHICS....

Dr. Speer’s courageous and challenging messages should sink deep into the hearts of all Davidson men. They had an inspiring
note that is rare and yet understandable.

With only sixty-three dissenting votes from two hundred and seventy-seven cast on the anti-noise amendment, the Davidson student body showed
that the unnecessary noise that has been going on is very unwelcome.

Watts’ challenge to Georgia came so late that many of the students in the latter place of abode wonder if
their rival’s fear of being called “sissies” didn't overcome their dread of having to again face the ferocious gridiron attack
of their conquerors of last season.

THANKS....

Members of The Red & Black Masquers wish to express their appreciation to all those who aided in making the
play, “Whistling in the Dark", a success. The Club is indebted to Professor Pfohl for postponing his scheduled concert; to
Professor Erwin, Miss Steele, Mrs. Martin and other members of the cast for their splendid cooperation; to ODK, Phi and
Eu literary societies, the annual, the social fraternities and other organizations whose meetings were postponed; and to the student body
for its wholehearted support and attendance.
—Dave Herring, Pres.

SWAN SONG SINGERS...

Thanksgiving afternoon ten Davidson football warriors donned the Red and Black grid togs for the last time. Some of them
were stars, others just played the game as best they could, but they will be missed when the next season
opens.

To Co-captains Henry Cathey and Cole Windham, we would like to extend particular congratulations. You have played the game in
a fine sportsmanlike manner for the past four years. You have led well the 1935 team, and you leave inspiring
gaps in that “thin red line” for future Wildcats.

To you other eight Seniors: Leroy Blackwelder, Wood Burns, “Six” Johnston, Swede Johnston, Paul Pittman, “Midge” Verble, “Chub” Yarborough, and
Fields Young we also offer congratulations, as well as the appreciation of the student body for your work and spirit.

OLYMPIC GAMES—SHOULD AMERICA ENTER

Propaganda to keep the United States from taking part in the 1936 Olympic Games scheduled to take place in Berlin
has been rampant during the past few months. It takes every form from small printed pamphlets to tremendous colored posters
bearing the pictures of a powerful athlete trying to escape the giant clutches of octopus-tentacles springing from the points of
a Nazi Swastika. Books have been printed on the subject. Newspapers carry, every day, some interesting observation from representative organizations
throughout the nation, but what benefit is coming from all the efforts?

Agitation first began in June 1933 soon after Fuhrer Hitler declared his Nazi program to be in effect. With this
declaration, athletics, along with everything else in Germany, came under direct control of the Central government, which forbids any participation
of Jews or Semitic descendants in affairs of state. Immediately, and naturally, the International Olympic Committee was aroused to make
clear its stand with regards to racial discrimination among participants in the Olympics. Nazism, fearing that the chances of staging
the Games at Berlin might be put in jeopardy if they clung stubbornly to their dictatorial position, presented to the
International Committee the following compromising pledges:

1. “The German Olympic Committee has delegated the mandate that has been entrusted to it to a special Organizing Committee.
2. “All the laws regulating the Olympic Games will be observed.
3. “As a principle, German Jews shall not be excluded from German teams at the eleventh Olympiad.”

Recently the Germans were accused of having broken these pledges. They, without hesitating longer than the time it took to
again receive governmental consent, renewed them. However, the fact that it was necessary to have the authorization of Hitler and
his cohorts seems to change the accusers' slant, and now rather than single out the anti-Semitic element for criticism they
contend that the issue is: “Whether Nazi policies and activities in the realm of sports and in connection with the
Olympic Games themselves are of such a character as to make it impossible for the Games to be held in
Nazi Germany in the true spirit of sportsmanship and of the Olympics.”

To my mind, no governmental condition in Germany would keep American athletes from participating in the Olympic Games with the
highest possible type spirit of sportsmanship, characteristic of our country’s athletes and of all participants in former Olympiads. To withdraw
the United States from the 1936 Games, however, would be a very definite and obvious act of poor sportsmanship.

The question of who should be representatives on the German team is entirely a matter for Germany to decide for
herself. The American Amateur Athletic Union is perfectly noble in its efforts to preserve the Olympic ideal, and keep Germany
within the bounds of Olympic regulations during the progress of the Games, but to meddle in the domestic affairs of
the Germans and threaten to not allow American athletes to take part in the Olympics unless Germany lifts its restrictions
from its own people, is quite clearly an act of “barking up a tree on posted ground.”

The United States doesn’t have to be a victim of poor sportsmanship, simply because some other nation so conducts itself.
That is their ‘little red wagon,” let them pull it where and as they please.

COLLEGIATE RAMBLINGS

ADVICE TO EDITORS...

This glowing description of the perils of collegiate publishing was copped from THE TIGER:

Getting out this paper is no picnic.
If we print jokes, people say we are silly;
If we don’t, they say we are too serious;
If we clip things from other papers, we are too lazy to write them ourselves;
If we stick close to the job all the time, we ought to be hunting up news;
If we go out and try to hustle, we ought to be in the office;
If we don’t print contributions, we don't appreciate true genius;
And if we do print them, the paper is junk;
If we make a change in the other fellow’s write-up, we are too critical;
If we don’t, we're asleep.
Now, like as not, some guy will say we swiped this from some other paper. WE DID!

PUNISHMENT...

Personal nomination for the worst pun of the month goes to the Hastings student who pinned the following to a
piece of Beanery toast: “This is not the toast that Sir Walter Raleigh drank to Queen Elizabeth.”

NAZI! NAZI!...

“Should America participate in the Olympic Games?” is a question which seems to be raging throughout the collegiate press at
this time. Many undergraduate editors seem to feel that we most emphatically should not, if the Olympics are held in
Germany as scheduled. The present government of that country does not live up to the ideal of international sportsmanship, they
contend.

“STARS FELL ON ——”...

A freshman prayer, as overheard by THE FLORALA: “Please Lord, I'm not asking anything for myself. I only pray that
the person next to me knows something on this exam.”

AT CAROLINA...

There was a boy who christened his automobile “Shasta”. You know, Shasta have water, Shasta have oil, Shasta have gas,
etc.

NOT THAT IT MATTERS...

THE MAROON feels that the turkey should get some Thanksgiving consideration. “Whereas most people only gave thanks, he gave his
all.”

Give some guys enough rope and they'll start making five cent cigars... N.Y.A. checks can be endorsed with an X;
perhaps it is expecting too much of some people to write their name as others spell it... A statistician at
Georgia Tech recently compiled a list of 2500 English cuss words... The Fordham mascot, a goat, disgraced himself by mistaking
an elderly woman for a football when she bent over to pick dandelions near the practice field... In the Eskimo
language “I love you” is “Unifggaernauburenslfingununagiourgaifoes”. Perhaps this will explain the old question as to why the arctic nights are
so long, according to a Purdue journalist.

Add definitions: “Propaganda—a papa goose.”

DAVIDSON off the RECORD
By HAROLD SUGG

OLD TURKEY THRICE HASHED

From the rails of third floor Georgia, far beyond efficient laundries and drab ROTC buildings are scattered ferric fields, a
faint rise of hills, and trees whose autumn warmth has been nearly frozen by gray wintry blasts; in the stillness
of early morning this scene is misty gray, in the afternoon a business-like bright, and in the cold dusk an
interspersed mixture of blue and purple. Walking toward Main St. on the now improved walk past Shearer one can see
clearly on brighter days the first rumblings of the Blue Ridges. From the stadium across the hills and toward the
gulleys a dying autumn still asserts itself in dulled red, and up the road behind the golf course, looking townward
in the late afternoon, the sinking sun seems to pull the redness from the earth, blend it with the prism
of the clouds, and the day dies in sometimes a copper sometimes a lavender splendour. The most beautiful line in
the BibleHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

are the words of a lonely shepherd before Armageddon, “I will lift up mine eyes unto the hills.” Watts the
matter with Watts? Full many a moon hath passed and except for the familiar slurp of tea drinking at 5
o’clock no sounds emanate therefrom. Is their tea weaker than usual? Fear they to challenge Georgia’s Champions who so humbled
them? Have they switched from gridiron to waffle-iron, or have their dim wits resulted in non-graduation so that they have
become senile and hoary with age? We term the “Watts” the “Almost Gots.” They almost got into Georgia.

THE PICAYUNE SNITCHER

Another among the Pestiferous Personages that breed under dormitory conditions is the hypocritical Picayune Snitcher. This bird will not steal
$10 nor forget to return a $60 typewriter and fain would do violent protest to dishonesty. But once reveal to
him the location of your candy, ink, medicine, stationery or hair tonic and this bird will pick away gradually and
stealthily, bit by bit and day by day, until no more is there left. We hear of another PP, the
Chapel-Wanderer, which species congregates just perhaps we had better stick to column a PP?

MUSIC HATH CHARMS

There is a certain prominent cornetist, from northerly regions, who with his pal, “Shirley” Motley, were bothered in their dates
by a lad of Charlotte Hi. So “Yank,” as he is called, sat down at the piano (whether the Charlotte
Hi boy laughed we do not know) and played “How Can I Leave Thee?” over and over. The lad took
the hint and left Yank and “Shirley” to enjoy the evening. But when the time for departure arrived, Motley and
Cunningham were at a loss as to exactly what Charlotte High had done to the automobile. Lamenting this tragedy, we
have composed an elegy. Perhaps we had better stick to column writing, but anyway:

“How can I leave Thee,” he played
“When Charlotte Hi stayed and stayed.
But once more the encore
He played in a panic,
For How Can I Leave Thee
Without a Mechanic?”

OK’D BY US

Sam Ryburn’s poem about Freshmen ... Hal Overton’s Hiss Column and cartoons ... Carleton Chapman ... Joe Dees & Co
for evoking mass panegyrics ... Mrs. Smith ... Davidson Band inspires Virginia to go forth and do likewise ... Esquire,
for putting mark at end of story sparing us egoistic setback in turning page to discover ... Paul Pittman who
should have been on official All-State.

JOVIAL JUNKET

Howard Covington and Dick Johnson, All-State honor, traveled to Philadelphia to watch the Army shell Navy. Ed Armfield accompanied Beda
Carlson to the game. Prof. Peters entertained at the Heinkle Dance, with Mills Taylor, Max Brittain, Buddy Branton and Jimmy
Wilson among others attending. We hear that Jimmy also likes poetry by Burns. Bob Wyatt’s Hotel Home in Raleigh saw
cheerful gatherings over the week and we hear that Ken Knorr would hold Peace Conferences every week. We would too
in Ken’s position. John Partridge and Dennis Myers took to South Carolina, and Pat who has taken a liking to
a band leader’s sister, among others.

AROUND WASHINGTON

By ARNOLD SERWER (Associated Collegiate Press Correspondent)

Washington, D.C.—Oddenda of the Week—Louis Carter, more popularly known as Jay Franklin, who is the Resettlement Administration's press relations chief,
has with his assistant, Kenneth Clark, been very successful in handling the newsmen that come to Resettlement’s executive offices in
the Department of Agriculture’s new South building. Reporters searching for some live item on the Resettlement’s program are taken into
Carter’s office and there given semi-confidential information on some phase of the work, information that is interesting but not damaging,
but which resembles inside stuff closely enough to boost the reporter’s status with his editor. Satisfied, the newsman goes off,
feeling that what he has is more important than anything he might have dug up through a series of questions
on the program as a whole.

* * *

Ex-President Hoover, in his speech before the Ohio Society of New York, in speaking of Washington's New Deal planners and
administrators, referred to them as “starry-eyed youngsters.” The phrase implies an excess of idealism combined with naivete. The average age
of the key men in this group is probably close to 40. Moreover, these “youngsters,” after three years spent under
a barrage of outside criticism are anything but “starry-eyed.” They're very much aware of the shortcomings of their own planning.
Part of this awareness comes from the fact that they’re capable of regarding their own work with a critical attitude.
And part of this awareness is the result of internal criticism their plans have received from within their own administrations.
It seems that their assistants, even younger than they, are always pointing out weaknesses in administrative structure, the critical attitude
apparently being the strongest among those with the fewest years. The eye turned upon each new development of their chief's
program by each of these young assistants in the different emergency agencies is more likely to be a jaundiced eye
than a “starry” eye.

* * *

Social Note—Nov. 26 is the date for the annual Big Ten Roundup at the Willard Hotel. On that evening, scores
of alumni and alumnae of the Big Ten schools will get together ostensibly for several hours of reminiscing about their
undergraduate days, will supposedly huddle together to make inquiries of each other concerning long lost roommates and friends. What probably
will really happen is that no one will spend much time in discussing the past. Everyone will pump everyone else
shamelessly, about their jobs, about the probable plans of their bureaus, ask about so-and-so’s salary and so-and-so’s chances for promotion,
because if so-and-so is promoted they're going to hit him for an administrative job. Opportunism will be so thick you
won't be able to cut through it with an ideal, for the time being. I'll check that prophecy on the
26th and if my prediction is wrong I promise to penalize myself by voluntarily limiting my reading this winter to
the Congressional Record, the published Hearings of the House Sub-Committee on Deficiency Appropriations, and last year’s seed catalogues.

* * *

In 1930 The Daily Cardinal, student daily of the University of Wisconsin, had for its editorial chairman a very outspoken
young man named Forrest Allen. A very able writer, capable of first rate editorial satire. Allen throughout his senior year
was about as popular with the faculty as a pay cut before Christmas. Anything done by the conservatives on the
faculty that Mr. Allen didn’t approve of was promptly followed by a stinging editorial in The Daily Cardinal. And there
wasn't very much they did that Mr. Allen approved of. Today Forrest Allen, whom several of his adversaries on the
faculty once hopefully believed would come to a bad end, is rumored to be drawing down a salary of $8,000
a year, as an Assistant Coordinator of the TVA, under David Lilienthal. If things had gone against Allen in this
fashion, any more than they did, he would probably today be in the Junior Cabinet, repenting of the evil of
his ways.

“Compare The NEWS” From DAVIDSONIANS of Years Gone By

FIVE YEARS AGO

Prof. E. J. Erwin is elected president of the South Atlantic Modern Language Group, at the convention which was held
here last week-end. Davidson is defeated by Wake Forest, 13-2, on Thanksgiving. A record crowd of 10,000 fans views the
contest in Charlotte. Nine are initiated into Phi Beta Kappa. Dr. E. W. Sikes, president of Clemson College speaks at
the ceremony. Dr. H. E. Kirk of Baltimore will deliver a series of Otts lectures to begin next Monday. Five
men from Davidson will try for Rhodes Scholarship. Basketball practice starts with 3 lettermen back. met a train full of
Converse Sunday. Mary Poyner was there.

MICHING MALLECHO

Why is Charley Malone called George Washington? (1) He cut down the cherry tree. (2) First in peace. (3) Threw
50c across the Potomac. (4) Never told a lie. (5) First in war. Has Chas. Mauze become a master of
that gentle art of Convers-ing? Did Sandy Moffett really want to date the dean at Limestone? Why does Jimmy Westall
know nothing about anything after a trip to the mountains? Does Johnny Armstrong pay any attention to warning signs? Does
Treadway always date chaperones?

SUGGESTION: That Tom Marchant see the picture show next Monday, “I Dream Too Much.” Perhaps Miss Lucas can explain this
disposition. George Hornbeck gets latch loosing letter. Bob Tissue gets service with smiles. NEWS: George Nortleet stays a week-end on
the campus, Medicine Man Lyerly.

TEN YEARS AGO

Phi Beta Kappa initiates 13 men Friday night. Dr. Edward Mack of Richmond is the chief speaker. Wildcats finish the
football season by defeating Duke, 26-0 on Thanksgiving. Gamma Sigma Epsilon, Honorary Chemical Fraternity holds convention at Davidson. The Senior
gift for this year will be stone benches placed on the campus. Three Davidson men make places on All-State Football
team. Dr. J. R. Sevier, President of Fassifern School for Girls, speaks at “Y” Vespers Sunday. The Glee Club makes
its annual trip to Mooresville and presents a Concert Friday.

FIFTEEN YEARS AGO

The Wildcat Minstrel is pronounced a success by a packed house Saturday night. B. W. Romefelt was named captain of
the 1921 football team after the Furman Game, Thursday. S. P. Verner, famous African explorer to be heard by the
students on December sixth. Juniors win class basketball for second successive year. C. K. Brown and J. H. McKeithen will
represent Davidson in the Randolph-Macon debate Tuesday night. Gamma Sigma Epsilon initiates three men. Major H. R. Smalley conducts semi-annual
inspection of the Davidson Battalion. The college band will give a concert tonight.

TWENTY YEARS AGO

Senior Speaking pronounced the best that has been held. Davidson closes successful season by defeating Wake Forest, 21-7. A reception
is held at Queens College in Charlotte for Davidson Students after the Glee Club concert.

Commencement Invitations
Fraternity Publications
1143 E. FOURTH ST.
Lamont Brown Fine Printing
QUEEN CITY PRINTING CO.
Representatives
Visiting Cards
Personal and Fraternity Stationery
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
R. P. Morrow
