6 THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 4, 1935

Annual Xmas Fund

Late in the second quarter, Armfield intercepted a pass in the flat and ran 37 yards down the sidelines but was caught from behind by Mumford. The quarter ended with the 'Cats hammering away at the Deac 20. Davidson was within scoring distance several times but failed every time except once to make a score. Walton Kitchin took to the air in the last resort to pull the game but a pass was intercepted inside the Deac 20. The final whistle found the 'Cats trying for another touchdown.

Davidson Stars Gain Places on All-State Team

Dick Johnson was selected at one of the regular guard posts. Houston Lawing, of the Greensboro Record, picked Johnson for his first-string guard, and he selected Pittman in his second team backfield. Anthony J. McKevlin, Raleigh News and Observer, picked two teams, and there are several Davidson alumni working.

Parker (Duke), Jackson (Carolina), Bardes (State), and Hutchins (Carolina). Second team: Ends—Cara (State) and Shore (W. Forest), Tackles—Evins and Trimpey (Carolina), Guards—Regdon (State) and Durner, Center—Sabol, Backs—Pittman, Kitchin, Alexander, and Ward.

The writers throughout the state have joined in their praises of the way that Paul Pittman has stepped into the vacancy left by Johnny Mackorell. Paul Pittman was not only picked on all the All-State teams, but, in being picked on Colliers' Little All-American team, he was rated the best guard in the two Carolinas. Dick is a junior and he will form the nucleus of the team for next year.

This is the first Christmas Gift Fund for Foreign Missions since 1930, the others having gone to Home Mission Work. Last year this fund went to Ham (Rev. R. H.) Stone, for Home Mission work in Ashe Country, North Carolina, for the completion of two churches. In past years, this fund has been used for such places as Barium Springs Orphanage, Banner Elk, Foreign Mission Board, Glade Valley High School, and Mission work in China. There are several Davidson alumni working.

Plans for the campaign are somewhat like those of last year. All students are cordially invited to attend this meeting.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

shis picks: Ends—Bershak and (ram | 2 series, “What the Lordship of Christ | yo 5 ge eae the per-| Library Shows Speer’s Means to Me) Dr. Speer brought out | West’s tackles—Farrar (N. C. State) each dor- the different titles most frequently used | 2nd Brunansky (Duke), Guards—John- ba pecerde | Books Perhreinie toc leche Grier cnt The teile | 80" (Davidson) and Johnston (Duke), S U B S C R I P T I O N | . . Center—Hennemier (Duke), Backs ers s to show just; i ats which Jesus most frequently used in re- | uilding are re-)|) 0 * Nath 4 nie e ; “Re 5 hinkine ferring to Himself was the Son of | ~o to ind a which anaes arene HST etal itty: Man. Almost as often he used words | i ea Gucnecee others used regarding Him, which are | h ace heer ; y—ot translated in our English Bibles Master. | LOOK YOUR BEST FOR T e D AV IDSONI AN pledging, or | , verte ‘he Unfinished ‘Paste of “Five of these Greek words stand out. | SOPH WEEK-END is | M a Eat Reecnt he first was the word for teacher. And | zm | Nations” “The ite Worl certainly Jesus was the supreme teacher, | ( | Che aaa myiraaty rks offal supreme in His method, in His spirit, in| : ‘ '; Mena being sel ‘ t Man ; Gane Gi 4 Temiereeite the His skill, in the truth which He taught, JOHNSON S Let Your Family Keep Up With vin ol eae pase ttn a Hardin Dace the daring presentation of Himself as | di Badu hag fee auil al nee SCORE Sea Z the object of His teachings.” | BARBER SHOP Davidson Through The y » days of | Eg gate meas t “The second word was the word leader, | Dec bs Speer Concluded Ctt’s te api ist the Got Oli DAVIDSONIAN a chance to take par which the third word would be literally trans- Address Today SED RCSROEL Nocera aca aaa! (CONNIE ale tues 2) New Shipment of Phonograph Records Special Rate for the rest of the year $1.50 supreme act in the vast strt between Symphonic Band Plays wlbbstiereser puienai ee wils wees On Weekly Broadcast Se TRAE Cenerenee eal lim PARKER-GARDNER co. s been in time past one of the most ig in this nature. (Continued from Page 1) itles s And limitedness of God in WEST TRADE ST. — CHARLOTTE . Professor Pfthl ¢ Christ. Lastly, the death of Christ was m one of tl 1 I t It w S : ilfhack, Silve Sherman, and Lewis. edicated I-those ha rations for the Rose vl ga the { played “California Here 1] . | 1 | Pr t d w | come n tl tu id if equests. Ne week he will release plans for to be held here on.the Davids: ipus next summer Medals to be Donated WHER peat BEER RR ES SRB PK? y &s SH Py of the-cigarette is in the smoking... and it always will be Deacons 14-7 (Continued from Page 1) of their ten first doy but whe est attack penetrated to the the Red and Black machii threw the Deacons bi change of punts, the “Cats found them Smokers— both men and women— want a cigarette to be mild—yet not flat or insipid. At the same time they want a cigarette that gives them taste—taste they can enjoy. selves deep in Wake Forest territory On the Deac 26, Pittman shot a long arching pass to Armfield who completed it and was downed on the 5. Then on Doc Newton's pet trick play, “Teeny” Lafferty circled his left end for the first Davidson score. The ball was snapped to the “tail bi * (Pittman) the right as if it were an off-tackle play on that side, but just at the line of scrimmage, he put the ball behind him Chesterfields are outstanding for mild- ness—outstanding for better taste. You can find that out by smoking them. and the wing-back (Lafferty) took it and scampered out to the left to cross for the marker. In the last half of the second period, the Deacs started to click and managed on a march from the Davidson 43, to drive down to within scoring distance. On first down, Kitchin threw a long, high pass to Dooney. It looked as if the pass would be intercepted, but it slipped © 1935, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.

---