THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 13, 1935

IN CAROLINA INDOOR MEET TWO WILDCATS PLACE

In the Field of Sports

FACULTY, VARSITY TO ENGAGE IN SECOND GAME

By MANOR BROWN

FRAZIER AGAIN

As cinderpath coursers stack up, Earl Frazier is the top. He is now entering upon his third year of college
competition as a distance runner, and only one defeat blemishes a record filled with unusually fast times in all of
the three long-distance events. In the State meet at Chapel Hill last spring, he ran the fastest mile and two-mile
races that were recorded in the south all season, and the fastest that have ever been run in North Carolina.
He began his 1935 conquest by defeating a field of formidable competitors representing several outstanding southern universities at the Jay-Cee
indoor games held in the Charlotte Armory a couple of weeks ago, and continued on the warpath Saturday night by
making a record-breaking run in the half-mile trek in the annual indoor meet at Chapel Hill. It will be interesting
to watch this Wildcat ace during the ensuing season, and particularly fascinating will be his duel with the celebrated Harry
Williams of Carolina, who has run with the national champions, Glenn Cunningham, Bill Bonthron, and Gene Venzke.

PITTMAN DAY

Saturday afternoon Richardson Field saw a great deal of Barium Springs, and in more ways than one. Aside from a
large crowd of visitors who represented the orphanage at the “Barium Springs Day,” there were quite a few graduates of
the Barium School who took part in the intra-squad football game that the Wildcats played for the benefit of the
orphanage. Paul Pittman, who hails from Barium, was one of the outstanding performers in this last of the winter practice
games, and his tow-headed brother who is now in about the third grade at Barium, took off honors in a
between-halves contest staged by two 85-pound teams from the Orphans Home. Young Pittman made two long dashes for touchdowns which
gave his team a 13-6 victory. On both these jaunts he displayed a stiff arm that will almost match the
notable one of his older brother. One onlooker remarked that it wasn't just Barium Day but Pittman Day as well.

INTERESTING INTERLUDE

An interesting interlude for this rather uneventful season of the year, right now, between the completion of winter sports and
the beginning of the spring calendar, is the annual boxing tournament that Captain Pritchett runs off. This has always proved
to be a highlight in the intramural program at Davidson. Last winter some real pugilistic talent was revealed, and tonight
you will be able to see more scrappy punchers when the final bouts take place at the local gym.

PLENTY POWERFUL

After observing the Wildcats in their final winter football drill Saturday afternoon, we are more thoroughly convinced of our statement
a few weeks ago that they would be “plenty powerful” in 1935. There are, of course, quite a large number
of wrinkles that will have to be ironed out before the fall whistle sounds, but that is the main purpose
of winter practices, to discover where the machine needs oiling and apply the grease in the proper places.

IMPORTUNATE INDIAN

I read in The Charlotte Observer that Chief Acoose died a few days ago in Canada at about 100 years
of age. He is the importunate Indian who chased a deer for 70 miles.

REDS AND GREYS TIE IN FINAL SPRING GAME

Pittman, Hogan, Yarborough, And Lafferty Are Outstanding

BARIUM MIDGETS PLAY

Proceeds Of Game Will Go To Barium Orphanage

The Davidson Wildcats ended their spring football practice Saturday afternoon with a scrimmage in which the Greys and Reds tied
0-0. Over 500 people attended this game on Barium Springs Day and the entire proceeds will go to the Barium
Orphans’ Home. The Greys made eight first downs to the Reds’ four. The Reds were aided with the gains made
through the line by Irving Hogan. Paul Pittman made several 15-yard runs and Yarborough hit the line with consistent gains
for the Greys. “Teeny” Lafferty and Fred Dennis, both from the freshman team, showed up well. Both teams came within
scoring distance of the goal. The Greys threatened first when Pittman caught Hogan's kick on the 50-yard line and ran
it back to the Reds’ 30-yard line. On the next play, Pittman was thrown for a three-yard loss by Hack
Sanders. Baxter Yarborough hit center for four yards. Pittman then threw a beautiful pass that was intercepted on the Reds’
10-yard line. In the second half, due to a 15-yard run by Hogan, a pass from Hogan to Fields Young,
and a lateral from Young to Dennis for 14 yards, the Reds reached the Greys’ 20-yard line, but could not
penetrate the Grey line and the ball went to the Greys. Again in the last half, the Greys reached the
Reds’ 11-yard line, but were thrown for a loss in the next two plays by the Red line, and the
ball went to the Reds. Neither team exhibited much speed during the game and both tried many passes, but completed
only one or two. During the six weeks’ practice, the Greys have won five games to the Reds’ one. In
the game Saturday, the Reds showed much improvement.

Between halves of the varsity game, two 85-pound teams from Barium Springs played. On the kick-off, one team started a
march down the field that ended in a touchdown. On the following kick-off, Henry Pittman, of the opposing team, took
off his shoes and ran for a touchdown. The score was tied 6-6 when Paul Pittman’s brother again took the
pigskin over the goal line to win for his team, 12-6.

Following are the line-ups for the varsity game:

RED Position GRAY
Young LE Windham
Cathey, H. LT Vass
Johnson LG Brown
Burns Center Clark
McClung RG Johnston
Johnston RT Hunter
Cathey RE Nicholson
Corbin QB Pittman
Hogan LHB Dennis
Harrison RHB Lafferty
Sanders FB Yarborough

New System Arranged For Intramural Track

This year the intramural track will be handled in an entirely new way. It will be run off by a
standard of points. There will be, as in the decathlon, fourteen events in which there will be set a certain
standard to which a contestant must measure up to before he can earn any points for his team. Heretofore, it
was conducted in the form of a regular track meet, and the score was also kept as in the regular
track meet. The individual who completes his ten out of the fourteen events in the best time, the most distance
or height, as a whole, will be awarded a very beautiful trophy for the performance. The competition started last Monday
and will continue at the rate of about three events a day until all the events have been completed.

Two Davidson Matmen Enter National Meet

Two members of Davidson's state champion wrestling team have been selected to enter the National Collegiate Championship tournament sponsored by
the National Amateur Athletic Association. Charles Fort, captain of the team, will enter in the 165 lb. division, while Leroy
Blackwelder, captain-elect for next year, will enter the 155 lb. class. The championship meet will be held at Lehigh University
in Bethlehem, Pa. and the Davidson representatives will leave on the morning of March 20 and will be away about
four days. Matmen from colleges throughout the nation will be present and, needless to say, the best collegiate wrestlers in
the land will be entered. Winners of this tournament will be matched with next year's champions to determine the team
to represent the United States in the Olympic Games at Berlin in 1936. Coach Unger has chosen Fort and Blackwelder
for their outstanding record and exhibition of skill during the past season. These two men have remained undefeated in the
eleven meets that they entered during the 1934-35 season. Both have been highly praised by coaches of opposing teams who
give them the credit for leading the Wildcat grapplers through a successful year.

TENNIS TOURNEY IN SEMI-FINALS

Competitors For Varsity Tennis Team To End Contest This Week

Last week Tommy Phifer and Martin Barnett won their way into the semi-final round of the varsity tennis tournament. The
semi-finals had not been reached by the participants in the upper bracket Monday. The two men from this group to
enter the select four will be the winners of the matches that found Dud Elvery opposing Ed Garrett and Carlyle
Lewis pitted against Archie McFadyen. This tournament is being held to select the members of this year’s tennis team. The
results of the play through last week are as follows: First round: Elvery defeated Hornbeck, Garrett defeated Young, McFadyen defeated
Willis, Lindsay defeated Robinson, Barnett defeated Sutton, and Morrow defeated Cameron. The other contestants drew byes. Second round: Elvery defeated
Walker, Garrett defeated Smith, Lewis defeated Brown, McFadyen defeated Lindsay, Barnett defeated Carlson, Woodward, G., defeated Feuchtenberger, Woodward, L., defeated
Boggs, and Phifer defeated Morrow. Quarter-finals: Barnett defeated Woodward, G., and Phifer defeated Woodward, L.

Intramural Baseball Will Begin Next Week

The intramural baseball season will be opened on the campus early next week, either on...Monday or Tuesday, according to an
announcement made by Heath Whittle, director of intramural sports. Captains for the various class teams have not yet been chosen,
but these will be elected sometime this week, so that all may be in readiness for the opening of the
season. The schedule for the six games is announced as follows:

First game: Seniors vs. Freshmen.
Second game: Juniors vs. Sophomores.
Third game: Seniors vs. Sophomores.
Fourth game: Juniors vs. Freshmen.
Fifth game: Seniors vs. Juniors.
Sixth game: Freshmen vs. Sophomores.

Before the animal finally became so fatigued that it was forced to surrender to the long-winded Red Skin, Captain Pritchett
could have made a cinder-burner out of him.

Our Fine Materials and Expert Workmanship Make BUFF The Shoe Shop For Every College Man.
BUFF SHOE SHOP
DAVIDSON, N. C.

VICKS MEDICATED COUGH DROPS
Medicated with Vicks ingredients for relief.

C. G. SMITH WINS GYMNASTIC CUP FOR THIS YEAR
Betters Shirey’s Previous Record By 34 Points
FRESHMEN RUNNERS-UP
Freshman Class Winners Of Intramural Competition

C. G. Smith of the junior class won the individual gymnastic competition this year with a grand total of 247
points, the largest number of points any individual has ever obtained. The freshman class won the class competition with a
total of 1,092.5 points. Smith bettered the mark set by Luther Shirey, last year’s winner, by 34 points. Smith will
be awarded a trophy sometime in the near future. R. C. Blue and J. P. Harris, both freshmen, came second
and third, respectively, with 222.5 and 222 points. They also bettered Shirey’s 213 points of last year. The freshman class,
placing ten in the first twenty, led the class competition with 1,092.5 points, which more than doubled the nearest class.
This is the first year the freshmen have ever won the title. The ten freshmen who placed among the first
twenty have been taking the gym class. The first twenty were as follows:

1. C. G. Smith, junior;
2. R. C. Blue, freshman;
3. J. P. Harris, freshman;
4. L. McPhail, senior;
5. Templeton, J., sophomore;
6. McKnight, C. A., freshman;
7. White, W., junior;
8. Elder, C. C., sophomore;
9. Bahnson, E. R., freshman;
10. Brittain, M. G., freshman;
11. Branton, W. C., junior;
12. Turner, W. P., freshman;
13. Holt, J. E., freshman;
14. Olverton, H. H., sophomore;
15. Cowan, G. C., sophomore;
16. Barksdale, H., freshman;
17. Higgins, W., sophomore;
18. McMullen, J. S., junior;
19. Horton, J. R., freshman;
20. J. L. Ranson and P. Y. Harlan, tie.

FROSH BATMEN START PRACTICE
Schedule For Coach Unger’s Freshman Baseball Team Is Announced

Although freshman baseball has not yet gotten into full swing and Coach Unger has not yet been able to get
a very full idea about the yearling team, it is known that quite a few of this year's candidates have
been starring on their various high school teams, and that there will be ample material for Coach Unger to use
in this year’s schedule, which is as follows:

April 9—Gastonia at Gastonia.
April 11—Rutherfordton at Davidson.
April 15, 16—Gastonia High at Davidson.
April 18—Boiling Springs at Boiling Springs.
April 20—Brevard at Brevard.
April 23—Boiling Springs at Davidson.
April 25—Belmont at Davidson.
April 27—Wingate at Davidson.
May 4—Wingate at Davidson.
May 8—Brevard at Davidson.
May 11—Belmont at Charlotte.

FRAZIER RUNS HIS BEST AT CAROLINA
LOST TO ’CATS

Captain Fred McPhail will definitely be unable to participate in track this season.

BOXING TOURNEY NOW UNDERWAY
Alexander, Frazier, Lee, Ormand, Windham, And Santiago Previous Winners

The Annual Davidson Intramural Boxing Tournament is now in full swing with almost a score of participants battling for a
place among the winners. Preliminaries of the tournament began Tuesday night after drawings were made, and will lead up to
the finals which are scheduled to end Wednesday or Thursday night. All contests are being conducted similarly to those of
last year, a place being roped off on the basketball court for the matches and all bouts being conducted under
the strict observance of intercollegiate boxing rules. Seven classes, 125 pounds, 135 pounds, 145 pounds, 155 pounds, 165 pounds, 175
pounds, and unlimited, will be included as usual. Jack Alexander is the only one of last year’s winners who has
entered the bouts this year. Ormand, Santiago, Frazier, Lee, and Windham, the other winners, are not entering the present contests.
The winners in the various events this year will receive gold medals with the Davidson seal in red and black
at the top, and two boxers in action at the bottom. Those men who are participating in the different matches
are:

L. F. Byerly, 155 pounds;
Leroy Blackwelder, 163 pounds;
George Mathis, 162 pounds;
G. B. Squires, 142 pounds;
J. E. Gilbert, 136 pounds;
Albert Ritchie, 134 pounds;
R. C. Blue, 125 pounds;
W. A. Cade, 146 pounds;
J. C. Alexander, 136 pounds;
H. H. McFadyen, 159 pounds;
J. M. Smith, 179 pounds;
A. J. Potter, 174 pounds;
S. H. Isler, 120 pounds;
D. M. Glasgow, 127 pounds;
Murry Mack, 139 pounds;
Big Six Johnston, 210 pounds.

HOTEL CHARLOTTE
In Co-operation with JUNIOR SPEAKING DANCE

Again we extend you a cordial invitation to have Hotel Charlotte as your headquarters. We will be happy to serve
you either in the Tavern or in the Main Dining Room—or both.

The Hotel of Charlotte

Freshman And Varsity Teams Participate In Annual Indoor Meet
DAVIDSON RANKS THIRD
Dickson And Beverly Place In Dash And Hurdles

Davidson’s freshman and varsity track teams went to Chapel Hill last Saturday night, March 9, to compete in the annual
Southern Conference track and field championship. The Davidson teams entered only three events. These were the 60-yard dash, 70-yard high
hurdles, and the 880-yard run. Parker, a high hurdler, was unable to go because of sinus trouble. Deyerly, a member
of the freshman squad last year, took his place. In the non-conference division, Davidson placed third with eight points. William
and Mary, the winner of the non-conference division, was well ahead of the rest of the field with twenty-one points.
Davidson placed in three events. Dickson took a third in the 60-yard dash, Deyerly placed fourth in the 70-yard high
hurdles, and Frazier took a first in the 880-yard run, which was the featured race of the non-conference division. Bullard
of William and Mary set a new record last year in this run of 2 minutes, 2.7 seconds. Frazier came
in third in that race. However, this year Frazier went ahead to defeat Bullard and also break the record which
he had made last year. The new record as made by Frazier is 2 minutes, 1.8 seconds. Frazier took the
lead in the first of the race and was never challenged. This was the fastest half-mile ever run by Frazier
either indoor or out. At the end of the race a great ovation was given him by the crowd. Two
freshmen, Barrow and Wicker, were entered in the freshman division of the high hurdles. Barrow qualified.

(Continued on Page 5, Col. 4)

CAGE DRAMA TO BE REPRODUCED
Richards And Lyon Challenge Varsity To Revenge Basket-Game

It has been said that opportunity knocks but once. This, however, is not true with reference to the opportunity that
Davidson folk had several weeks ago of seeing basketball as it should be played. Yea, as it was played in
that recent unforgettable cage classic between the faculty and varsity! The fact that the faculty can “take it” and is
now ready to “dish it out” was evidenced by the release of the following notice:

“We, the members of the faculty, having completely recovered from all corporal injuries but still smarting under the sting of
the defeat handed us by the varsity in our former conflict, do hereby challenge the aforesaid varsity to a basketball
game to be played at 1:45 Saturday afternoon, March 16.
Dr. Scott C. Lyon, Manager.
Dr. C. M. Richards, Cheerleader.”

Were the spirits of the faculty dampened by that recent loss? No, no, a thousand times no! That is the
reply given to that question by the capable manager, Dr. Lyon, and the peppery cheerleader, Dr. Richards. They are out
for revenge and the experts predict just that, particularly if that student versus professor combination re-occurs. The varsity mustered enough
courage to accept this challenge, and unless it learns of the perils that lie in wait, it will have five
courageous youths on the floor to give their all. For what? To give you the best in entertainment, and incidentally
to raise the necessary cash with which to purchase “D” sweaters to ward off next winter’s icy blasts. The curtain
will rise promptly at 1:45 Saturday afternoon and all will be over by 2:30, provided the varsity doesn’t run out
of players before that time. This time was set to allow ample time for those attending the tea dance. Admission
will be twenty-five cents for students and ten cents for girls accompanied by students. Cheerleader Dr. Richards will positively be
on hand, as much depends on his ability to rouse the spirits of his men. Warren, Dees, and McLeod have
done a good job this year, but the doctor dwarfs their most noble performances with his collegiate yells and snappy
antics.
