THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 6, 1935

STUDENTS LEAD VESPER SERVICE

McMullen, Edwards, And Brandon Discuss Different Viewpoints In Regard To Peace

Peace was the subject of discussion at the student-conducted vesper service last Sunday evening at the regular hour. Audley Gammon
was the leader for the meeting, reading the scripture and introducing the speakers. The topic was presented from three different
viewpoints: “The Necessity of Peace,” “The Methods Used to Secure Peace,” and “What a Davidson Man Can Do to Secure
Peace.”

John McMullen, speaking on “The Necessity of Peace,” stressed the fact that “isolation at Davidson leads to indifference.” Yet the
isolation of the United States is a thing of the past, he continued, and the actions of our nation affect
other nations. He said that in like manner we will be involved if other nations go to war. Next came
a brief summary of the conditions leading to war which were prevalent in important foreign countries. He added that the
other side of the picture was simply an ideal of “World Brotherhood,” a dream of a world kingdom in which
the golden rule was law. In conclusion, he pointed out that the “time will not come by itself, but we
must do our part to make war impossible.”

Wilbur Edwards, the next speaker, gave a summary of the methods used and those that can be used. He pointed
out that man’s best instrument in prehistoric times was protection by preparedness and that man’s clouded vision today could see
no other possibilities for peace. The world thought itself secure in its preparedness of 1910, only to have this security
badly shaken by the World War. Then began a new trend of peace conferences and disarmament. However, these are virtually
failures, and the world begins to realize that efforts to outlaw war are useless until we sacrifice our own petty
nationalism.

Don Brandon gave a more special discussion on what we may do to produce world peace. “Pacifism,” he stated, “has
suffered much due to worthless plans, ranging from the absurd to the sublime.” “Every student desires peace,” he continued, “but
it will not be procured as long as we are satisfied to sit complacently and let shallow thinkers dish out
our ideas to us. It is our duty as students to enlighten ourselves so that we may make the right
decision.” “A final requisite,” he added, “is that our hearts must be permeated with the ‘Prince of Peace.’ Then will
we have a ‘peace that passeth all understanding.’” A dismissal prayer by Brandon concluded the program. The organist for the
service was Carlton Chapman.

Faculty Team Is Loser To Varsity

A basketball team composed of members of the varsity squad defeated a team composed of faculty members and coaches of
the college in a game packed with thrills and surprises for both teams as well as for the audience. The
score was surprisingly close, the undergrads winning 34-27. The varsity team kept a safe margin of lead throughout the game,
but never did pile up a big lead. The faculty quint made a strong rally in the last period but
was unable to tie the score.

The faculty team was composed of Professors Schenck and McGavock, Coaches Unger, Laird, McEver and Whittle, Mr. Hengeveld, registrar, and
Grier Martin, alumni secretary. Members of the regular varsity basketball squad made up the opposing team. McGavock, Martin, and Laird
proved to be the mainstays for the faculty. Coach Unger also was very impressive on the offense. The game was
one of long passes and shooting from all parts of the court. The feature attraction of the game, however, was
the cheerleading of Dr. Richards of the faculty, who was strongly supported in a variety of rah-rah yells by a
cheering section composed of other members of the faculty and their wives and friends.

CARS FOR RENT
Gulf Gas and Oil
M. P. HENDERSON

Dr. P.D. Miller To Speak Here Sunday

Popular Raleigh Minister To Speak At Combined Evening Vesper Service

Dr. P. D. Miller, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Raleigh, will be the vesper speaker Sunday evening. Dr.
Miller will fill the pulpit of the Davidson Church at the Sunday morning service, but there will be no evening
service in the church. The vesper service will take its place, and the members of the congregation are cordially invited
to be present at the vesper meeting.

Dr. Miller is a former Davidson man, having graduated in the class of ‘22. He then attended Union Theological Seminary,
as a fellowship student. For a number of years, Dr. Miller has been Executive Secretary of the Department of Home
Missions for the Southern Presbyterian Church, with his headquarters in Atlanta. Recently, he has accepted a call to the church
at Raleigh. Dr. Miller is outstanding, not only for his work on the Missions Board but through his interest and
work with young people, and he should appeal to the students of Davidson.

WBT Changes Hour Of Radio Program

Louise Nelson Pfohl Renders Hungarian Fantasy On First Thursday Broadcast

Due to the fact that the time of Davidson’s weekly radio program has been changed, the program was presented on
Thursday, February 28, at eight o'clock. The program was opened by the march, “O Davidson.” The Concert Band then played
the march, “Triumphant,” by Olivadoti. This number was followed by a cornet solo by Moreland Cunningham, “The Rosary,” by Ethelbert
Nevins. Louise Nelson Pfohl then rendered Franz Liszt’s “Hungarian Fantasy,” accompanied by the Concert Band. This rendition lasted nineteen minutes
and was the first time this arrangement had been played in the South. The manuscript of this arrangement is in
the hands of Falcone, of the University of Michigan, consequently the University of Michigan and Davidson are the only two
institutions in the United States to present this musical arrangement, in which a band accompanies the pianist.

The hour of the program was not changed by the college, but by Station WBT, who found that they had
an offer for the time on Friday night at which the Davidson program has been held in the past.

Junior Speakings Originated With Prize Orations, Poems

By Hat Overton

Having more ivy-grown tradition behind them than any other set of dances ever held by Davidson students are the approaching
“Junior Speakings.” The origin of Junior Speaking weekend goes back into the moss-dripping past far beyond the range of mere
human memory. So far as any authorities on the subject remember, there have always been “Junior Speakings.” True, the original
events were not even remotely like the present-day celebrations, yet despite the freely-given opinion of a well-known authority on Davidson
traditions, there is a distinct connection, and 1935’s dances are a mere outgrowth of 1850's oratory.

Says Dame Tradition—Junior Speaking was once the time of year when each member of the Junior class delivered an oration,
then a requirement for graduation. A companion to this event was “Senior Speaking,” a preceding day when all seniors delivered
their speeches. On this famous weekend, all the parents, kid brothers, sisters, and loved ones flocked to Davidson to hear
the verbose orations of the juniors. One of the earliest records is of that unusual occurrence when the class of
1870, tiring of the usual routine speeches, substituted nursery rhymes for the usual topics. The speeches soon became so ridiculous
that the audience was dismissed ‘mid sighs of relief from the scheming juniors.

A social feature has been connected from the very first. Friends and girls were invited to the orations and the
traditional warning cry of “FIRE!” seems to have echoed around Old Chambers since the dawn of Davidson history. Usually, an
athletic event was included in the program along with some form of student entertainment. However, student “dramatics” came to a
sudden inglorious end in the 1890s when the faculty banned such performances.

The date of Junior Speakings was originally around Washington's birthday, but when the classes became so large as to necessitate
three and four days of oratory, the date was changed. It was sometime after 1900 that the social feature came
into predominance. The following events were on the program in ’17 when the class had grown so large as to
require two days: a basketball game, a faculty reception, teas, and concerts by the band and glee club. By this
time, the number of girls on the campus far surpassed the throngs of adoring parents.

An important event in the evolution of Junior Speakings took place in 1921 when lengthiness caused the “compulsory speech from
every junior” regulation to be discontinued. By 1923, the Y. M. C. A. was offering a picture show “thriller” in
the gym as an added form of entertainment. Also of note was the “pink tea” given by fraternities and a
“cabaret” held in the gym. Lack of oratorical interest manifested itself in 1927 when only three juniors entered the contest.
(Incidentally, the medal is still being offered.) Just when dancing became a part of the entertainment is not known, due
to suppression of the subject, but by 1930 the program was virtually the same as it is today. At that
time, a dance was held in Mooresville, and one in Charlotte. Many forms of entertainment were given for the girls
who persisted in coming down without the encouragement of speeches (a letter will do). The scenes of oratory had beenChanged
from public halls to private and secluded corners and “Junior Speakings” were in much the present-day form.

YMCA Holds Service In Nearby City

The Y. M. C. A. sent a deputation to Gastonia last Sunday night, March 3, to conduct the evening and
the young people’s meeting at the First Presbyterian Church. This deputation consisted of a quartet composed of John Morgan, John
Washburn, Charles Ramsaeur, and Donald Pfohl, and two speakers, Bob Smith and Albert McClure, secretary of the college Y. Professor
Warren Babcock played the piano accompaniment for the quartet. At the young people's service, the quartet sang two numbers, and
Bob Smith made the talk. Before this program, supper was served to all the young people present at the meeting.
At the evening service, the quartet again sang, and Albert McClure preached the sermon of the evening.

TATE-BROWN’S STUDENTS’ DEPT. is featuring the new RAGLAN SLEEVE SUITS $29.50 and up, in the newest spring sports fabrics—also the
window pane checks and oversquares.

Among the GREEKS

Beta Theta Pi: Misses Pauline Niesler, Ruth Settermyer, and Sarah Finger, from Kings Mountain, visited the lodge last Saturday afternoon.
Many of the Phi Alpha Chapter were visitors at neighboring schools and colleges the past weekend.

Pi Kappa Alpha: The Beta Chapter entertained in their lodge last Saturday night with a party celebrating the Founders Day
of the National Fraternity. At this party, a mock trial was enjoyed by the many visitors. The guests included Misses
Ann Hoover, Babe Hoover, Isabelle White, Caddie Willis, Parks Lafferty, Albert Means, of Concord; Ruth Hunt, Naney Harris, Peggy Jones,
Dury Reeves, Alice Reeves, and Mary Mickley, of Charlotte; Betty Carr Fleming and Locke Long of Statesville; Dorothy Johnston and
Frances Stough of Davidson.

Kappa Alpha: A model initiation was held at the lodge with a feed afterward last Thursday night. Among the visitors
present were: Dr. Moffett, Dr. F. P. Hood, and Professor McGavock, Davidson.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon: Brother Matthews, from Gastonia, is recuperating from injuries received when a rock struck the windshield of the
car he was riding in recently. He is in a Charlotte hospital. Brothers Armfield and Bahnson visited and attended some
social functions in nearby cities. A feed is to be given next Sunday in celebration of the Founders Day of
the National Fraternity.

Kappa Sigma: The formal initiation of the Delta Chapter will be next Thursday night at the lodge.

Pi Kappa Phi: The brothers enjoyed seeing Brother Bob Lindback from Charlotte attending the orchestra concert.

Phi Gamma Delta: The Delta Kappa Chapter pledged William Kiesewetter, from Philadelphia, Pa., last Monday night at the lodge, after
which a very enjoyable feed was given. Brothers A. O. Cooke, Russell Patterson, J. O. Cooke, and W. C. Branton
went visiting, while Brothers Gene Vogler and Tyler Port spent an enjoyable weekend at their homes. Charles Moore from Charlotte
was a visiting alumnus.

Phi Delta Theta: The Gamma Chapter recently pledged Dennis Myers from Charlotte. Brothers Ralph McClelland, George Lee, Van Thompson, and
John McClelland attended a dance at St. Mary's. John Taylor, Duke Glasgow, and Ray Richardson recently returned from an enjoyable
visit.

Campus Orchestra To Play Daily At Hotel Supper Hour

Hail to Chubby King and his nine-piece collegiate dance orchestra! You may hear them every night except Sunday from 6:30
to 7:00 at the Hotel Davidson. The orchestra was organized by Mr. King at the beginning of the second semester
to earn a little money for the members, and also to play for fraternity dances, and, should they be allowed
on Davidson campus, to furnish the music for some of the college dances. The orchestra made a verbal contract to
play for Mr. Morgan, of the Davidson Hotel, and has been playing there each weekday night at the supper hour
since last Wednesday, February 27.

Sermon Delivered At Chester By Dr. Lingle

Dr. Walter L. Lingle, president of Davidson College, delivered the morning and evening services in the Purity Presbyterian Church, Chester,
S.C. on March 3. The subject of the morning service was “The Christian and His Money.” Ten young people were
received into the Purity Presbyterian Church on confession of faith at the morning service. His evening sermon topic was “The
Message of the Book of Jonah,” discussing how the message affects us today. The Chester Presbyterian Church has not had
a pastor in over three months. This was the first time Dr. Lingle had spoken at that church. The Davidson
president left this city for Chester Sunday morning, March 3, and returned that night.

Dr. Walter L. Lingle plans to talk at the Covenant Presbyterian Church, Greensboro, for the next two Sundays.

The Epsilon Chapter of Sigma Phi Epsilon: A formal initiation was held by the chapter last Thursday night with the
following men being initiated: J. P. Harris, Jr. and F. S. Taylor, of Oxford; J. W. Lipstreu, Henry Lyons, of
Rogersville, Tenn; Dan Iverson, of Miami, Fla.; Richard Vowles, of Davidson, and G. C. Currie, of Mullens, W. Va. The
chapter was sorry to lose Jeff Moore, of Pendleton, S.C., who had to drop out of school on account of
illness. A “feed” is planned for next Sunday night.

Dr. A. E. Ruark Cancels Engagement To Speak

Dr. Arthur E. Ruark, of the University of North Carolina, who was scheduled to speak here on Tuesday, March 5,
was forced to cancel his engagement due to an unexpected business call by a friend in Sarasota, Fla. Dr. Ruark
has been busily engaged in recent months in forming the Southern Division of the Physical Society. A “feed” and “sing”
was attended by many of the brothers last Sunday night.

More Radio Pleasure for Your Money

Price $44.95

Give yourself a break and equip your room with the newest in radio. This is the best radio value now
on the market. It is equipped for long and short wave reception. Performance is guaranteed by our authorized RCA repair
service.

VAN PATTERSON
414 WEST
RCA-Victor Radios and Records

WEDNESDAY - THURSDAY
Zasu Pitts, Slim Summerville
“THEIR BIG MOMENT”
Thrills and laughter as Zasu turns spirit medium and unwittingly solves a murder mystery!

FRIDAY - SATURDAY
James Oliver Curwood’s
“Northern Frontier”
With Kermit Maynard

MONDAY - TUESDAY
Secret films of the warring nations’ archives!
Matinee 10¢ - 20¢
Night 10¢-20¢-25¢

STATE
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Showing All This Week
The South's Premiere Showing of
EDWARD G. ROBINSON in his greatest world
“The Whole Town’s Talking”
This picture is playing Charlotte simultaneously with its premiere in N. Y. at the Radio City Music Hall.
25c DAILY 'TIL 6 P.M.

Music for the orchestra has been ordered, and it expects to have a complete musical library within a short time.
Stands, also, are being made for the orchestra. The members of the orchestra are as follows:
Chubby King - Trumpet
Moreland Cunningham - Trumpet
Pete McKnight - Trombone
Dig Wright - Trombone
Buddy Robinson - Saxophone
Wooten - Saxophone
Bill Crooks - Drums
Bronson Kenney - Piano

Juniors Hold Smoker To Formulate Plans

The Junior class held a smoker in the banquet hall of Chambers Building last Friday night for the purpose of
discussing plans for the Junior Speaking dances, to be held Friday and Saturday of this week. Cole Windham, president of
the class, presided. An unusually large percentage of the class attended, according to Windham. The juniors plan to hold a
beauty contest for the duration of the dance starting at the beginning of the Friday night formal dance, and ending
at the intermission of the Saturday night informal dance. All boys on the floor will be allowed to vote for
the girl of their choice. No votes will be accepted, however, if they are not signed. The prices of the
dances were set at the smoker, and these are announced in another part of this paper. Cigars, cigarettes, and the
like were served at the smoker.

Intramural Track Will Get Underway Monday

The intramural track competition will begin on Monday, March 11. This will be in the form of a decathlon contest
in which there are 10 events. The highest number of individual points wins a trophy, while those points won by
the different classes determine the class that wins the competition. The track events and the qualifying times are as follows:
100-yard dash, 12 sec.; 220-yard dash, 24 sec.; 440-yard dash, 55 sec.; 1-mile run, 5 min.; 2-mile run, 10 min.
15 sec.; high hurdles, 18 sec.; low hurdles, 27.8 sec. The field events and the qualifying distances are as follows:
High jump, 5 ft. 5 in.; pole vault, 9 ft.; broad jump, 20 ft.; shot put, 38 ft.; discus, 111
ft.; javelin, 143 ft.
