THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 27, 1935

Up To Date College Laundry Attends To College Needs

* Four Washing Machines Launder One Hundred Eighty Bundles Daily

TWENTY-FOUR WORKERS

Efficient Cleaning Department Employs Six Men

“Hey Freshman! Carry this down to th’ laundry! Thanks!” With a scowl upon his dainty face, he picks the bundle up wearily and trudges to the laundry door where it is tossed carelessly inside. This could possibly go on as a story about the freshman, one Julius B. Goofink, but no—it’s about the Davidson College laundry, an efficient organization.

Approximately 180 bundles of clothes are laundered each day, being run in five “lots” with thirty-six bundles making up each lot. A bundle is first taken by two women in the checking department where each unmarked piece is marked and a careful list made of all articles. Shirts, socks, underwear, etc., are sorted into separate piles and then taken to the washing machines, one for flatwork, another for shirts, a third for underwear, and the last for dark things.

We find directly in front of this row of four washers, six bins containing different types of soap: straight alkali, known under the trade name of Escolite; a “sour bin;” and starch. The first soap, green in color, has an olive oil base and is used in all fuselage work or anything with colors and fast. The second, with a tallow base, is mixed with alkali; and the third is known as “break powder” for the loosening of dirt on the clothes. The “sour bin” is made up of 85% sodium-silico fluoride and 15% sodium acid fluoride, and this is used to neutralize the clothes between an acid and an alkali.

A vat of chloride is also found nearby and is an accessory to washing in keeping the colors right and sterilizing. The clothes having been washed are then taken to a semi-dryer or “extractor” which, by means of centrifugal force, removes most of the water leaving the flat work and shirts just damp enough to iron.

The ironing department consists of six machines: two collar and cuff, two bosom, and two back machines, all operated by compressed air and heated by steam. There are also two double sleeve ironers, and a large machine consisting of four padded rollers with a steam chest underneath. This last one is used for sheets, etc. To put the finishing touches on all ironing, there are four hand irons used. The flatwork, still damp after running through the extractor, is taken to a large drying machine or “tumbler.” After all the laundry has been washed, dried, and ironed, the different lots are sorted out into bundles again, according to respective numbers, rechecked, wrapped, and are ready to go out.

The Davidson College Laundry, owned and operated by the college, employs twenty-four people, and over 15,000 pieces of laundry are handled each week. All laundry brought down Wednesday is ready within the same week.

The Dry Cleaning Department of the laundry employs six men. The process of cleaning all garments, etc., is somewhat similar to the laundering of clothes. A suit is first taken where it is cleaned. This equipment consists of two cleaning machines and a pressure filter. The suit is run fifteen minutes on the first cleaning fluid and at the end of this time it is run fifteen more minutes on a second cleaning fluid or a fresh solvent. This fluid is kept clean all the time by being constantly forced through the pressure filter, which takes out all foreign matter that the solvent picks up with the exception of fatty acids and grease compounds. From the cleaning machine, the suit passes to the extractor, to the tumbler, is inspected and assembled, thence to be pressed. There are four pressing machines. The total capacity of cleaning for one day is approximately 200 suits.

“The laundry,” according to Mr. Hamrick, manager, “is just as modern as any in the state and the work done is at a quality of the work is just as good as can be found at a commercial plant.” The laundry opens at 7:00 A.M., and closes at 5:00 P.M.

Soprano To Appear On Concert Program Soon

The second concert on this season’s concert series will be presented on December 9th by Kate Keith Field, soprano, of New York City, according to Mr. James C. Pfohl, Director of Music at Davidson. Miss Field will be accompanied by Louise Nelson Pfohl. The complete program is not yet available but will be printed in the next issue of the DAVIDSONIAN.

The “Musical Courier” had the following concerning Miss Field’s New York recital last spring: “Miss Field possesses a beautiful, unforced soprano voice which she uses effectively. Schumann’s Mondnacht was a model of smooth legato singing, whereas in the closing song, The Lament of Ian the Proud by Griffes, she achieved dramatic climax. She was greeted by a large and enthusiastic audience.”

GERMAN GROUP HOLDS MEETING

Dr. Lingle Speaks On “German University Life” To Delta Pi Alpha

Dr. T. W. Lingle addressed the Epsilon chapter of Delta Phi Alpha, honorary German fraternity, at its regular meeting held November 18 at the home of Dr. Harding. “German University Life” was the speaker’s topic. Speaking to the group on German Universities, Dr. Lingle made his opening remarks in German, but concluded his address in English.

After giving a brief history of the formation of the German university system, he compared their schools with those in America. The speaker related several very interesting incidents which he experienced while studying in Leipzig. He said that the German dueling societies are completely different from American fraternities. Though their numbers are limited, they have no secret procedure and are established for the sole purpose of dueling. After the address, Dr. Lingle answered questions asked by the fraternity members about Germany.

Dr. Vowles made the suggestion that initiates give a short German play at the next meeting to be held Monday night. At the conclusion of the program, Dr. Harding served refreshments. Hervey Ross presided over the meeting.

Sophs Prepare For Dance Set

(Continued from Page 1)

Recently chosen class colors of royal purple and gold, under the direction of Carlos Young. A crystal ball will crown the center of the Armory from which will flow alternating streamers of royal purple and gold. The sponsors for the dance have not been announced at this time, but the pictures of all the sponsors will be printed by the Charlotte Observer.

Town Talk

Mrs. J. S. Butler announces the marriage of her daughter, Milbrey, to Lt. William Buckner, Medical Corps Reserve Camp, Mendesshall, Miss., Saturday, November 16. Dr. Buckner, an alumnus of Davidson, received his M.D. degree at Tulane in June, 1935.

Mr. and Mrs. Claude I. Arnold, of Washington, D. C., spent the weekend with Dr. and Mrs. J. J. Withers.

The Twentieth Century Club held its regular meeting Friday afternoon at the home of Mrs. H. E. Fulcher. Mrs. J. I. Hartness presented a paper, “The Progress of Medicine.”

Mrs. W. O. Sample and Miss Bessie Sample are spending several weeks with relatives in Roxboro.

Mrs. William Patterson, of Clover, S. C., is a guest of her sister, Miss Vic Withers. Dr. Patterson will arrive Thanksgiving Day.

Miss Bonnie Shelton had as her guest during the week Miss Linda Bailey, of Woodleaf.

Mrs. Scott C. Lyon is visiting relatives in Atlanta, Ga.

Professors W. W. Wood, W. N. Mebane, W. G. McGavock, H. E. Fulcher, and J. M. Douglas attended the monthly meeting of the Engineer’s Club of Charlotte, Thursday, Nov. 21. The speaker was Dr. Harvey Fletcher, physical research director of the Bell Telephone Laboratories in New York.

The Red Cross Drive, under the direction of Mrs. W. G. McGavock and Miss Maline Lyon, has been brought to a successful conclusion. The membership of 108 is larger than in any other previous year.

Bob Wood, a student at Darlington, will spend Thanksgiving with his parents, Prof. and Mrs. W. W. Wood.

Mrs. Frazer Hood, who spent several weeks with relatives in Mississippi, has returned to Davidson.

The local Hi-Y will be represented at the interstate convention to be held in Durham, Dec. 6, by two college students. The boys making the trip are: John Withers, Cyrus Colvin, Edward Jackson, and Lewis.Parker, Edwin Parker, Bill Wood, George Withers, and James Mooney. Marion Bryant, local supervisor, and another college student will also attend.

Scabbard And Blade Honors ROTC Officers
(Continued from Page 1)

provide a flag for the pole beside Shearer Hall, which flag would fly every day except Sunday. They are also trying to arrange for a set of trophies, consisting of a cup for the best drilled company, one for the best drilled platoon, and one for the best drilled individual. The latter cup will be open to juniors, sophomores, and freshmen, but not to seniors.

Prof. Fleagle On Language Convention Program Nov. 30
Davidson Professors To Attend Annual South Atlantic Association Meet

MEET IN ATHENS, GA.
Bailey, Vowles, Erwin And Watts Leave Thursday

The South Atlantic Language Association will convene at the University of Georgia, Athens, Georgia, on Friday and Saturday, November 29 and 30, for their eighth annual meeting. Professor F. K. Fleagle of the Davidson Spanish department will be the only faculty member to address the association. Professor Fleagle will speak before those teachers interested in work in the field of Spanish on the subject “The Historical Background of Bridge of San Luis Rey.” This speech will be made Saturday morning before this special group between the hours of 9 and 11 o'clock. Other members of the faculty planning to attend are Professor G. Bailey, Professor E. J. Erwin, Dr. G. R. Vowles, and Dr. G. B. Watts.

These meetings are held each year in an elected place to help the advancement of the languages as taught in our colleges and universities at present. This meeting, the eighth in the series, of the South Atlantic Modern Language Association will open with various sections meeting in their particular discussion groups to hear the various speakers. All sections will meet in the Commerce-Journalism Building except the English group which will meet in the courtroom of the Law School Building. Friday afternoon all groups will meet together for a general session which will be followed by a banquet in Memorial Hall. Dr. Harmon W. Caldwell, President of the University of Georgia, will welcome the members at this banquet and John C. Dawson, President of the South Atlantic Language Association, will reply for the association. The final departmental meetings will occupy most of Saturday morning, and the session will adjourn after electing officers for the coming year at a general business session Saturday afternoon.

THACKERS, Inc.
“A Good Place to Eat”
SPECIAL THANKSGIVING DINNER
Welcome Davidson
118 S. Tryon St., Charlotte

HARDWARE
M. H. GOODRUM & CO.
-Davidson’s Oldest and Best

DRY GOODS
Charlotte, N. C.
PAUL AND CRYMES, INC.
SPORTING GOODS
415 South Tryon Street

Cars for Rent
Gulf Gas and Oil
M. P. HENDERSON

Magazines
Candies
‘Where Everyone's Your Friend”
WHITE DRUG CO.

Stationery
Toiletries

Davidson Theatre
WEDNESDAY AND THURSDAY,
THE MELODY LINGERS ON
With Josephine Hutchinson, Nona Barrie, and George Houston

FRIDAY AND SATURDAY, NOV. 29-30
IN OLD KENTUCKY
With Will Rogers, Dorothy Wilson, Louise Henry, Russell Hardie and Bill Robinson

MONDAY, DEC. 2
IN PERSON
With Ginger Rogers and George Brent

TUESDAY, DEC. 3
CORONADO
With Johnny Downs, Betty Burgess, Alice White, Jack Hale and Eddie Duchin

Seniors Squirm With Agony In New Blazers

The blazers ordered by 61 members of the senior class arrived here last Tuesday, November 19, but were not distributed until yesterday, due to a delay in making certain necessary arrangements. They were purchased from the Tilden Company, of Ames, Iowa. The blazers this year are dark blue sports jackets with a pleated and belted back, and on the breast are the letter “D” and the class numeral in white felt. The purchase was handled by a committee consisting of Bill Merchant, Bud Okey, Mal Grimes, Bill Coffin, Carleton Chapman, and Dan Griffin.

RADIO PROGRAM FEATURES BAND
Quartette And Saxophone Solo Enrich Broadcast

With the familiar strains of “O Davidson” the Davidson College Band under the direction of James Christian Pfohl, opened the radio program last Friday night at ten o'clock. The other features of the program were songs by the quartette and a saxophone solo by James Chrisman. The quartette is composed of Paul Hudson, 1st tenor; John Allen, 2nd tenor; Charles Ramseur, baritone; and Donald Pfohl, bass. This last program consisted of: “Colonel Bogey March” by Alford, “Serenade-Les Millions d'Arlequines” by Drigo. The quartette then sang an old negro spiritual, “Steal Away.” The Band then resumed the program with “Fairest of the Fair March” by Sousa, followed by the campus news bulletin. Next came the saxophone solo, Wallace Brown with “Anchors Aweigh” and the quartette continued with “Scenes That Are Brightest” and “Nita, Juanita.” The band concluded the program with “Here's to Wake Forest.”

JUNIORS STUDY MACHINE GUNS
R.O.T.C. Practice On Range Attracts Student Attention

For several weeks third year R.O.T.C. students have been taking their advance work outdoors. Sprawled on the grass between West and Georgia teams have studied the complications of the machine gun. Major Seifert has directed the activities of the groups of three or four. Dressed in blue denim they separate by their guns and prepare for orders. Quick assembly of the guns has been the subject of much practice, for it requires a ready knowledge of the weapon. The various parts have uses and names that are confusing and tax the memories of the students taking the course. However, the work is interesting even to the other men who gather during classes to watch the manipulation of the sleek and shiny guns. Sighting, aiming, and firing are ahead for the squads, but as yet they confine themselves to learning the fundamentals in this particular branch of armaments.

Vying with upper-classmen, are the ambitious freshmen starting rifle marksmanship on outside ranges. The principles of position and technique are already assumed by many who plot “triangles” in sighting exercises and fire the rifle on imaginary bullets while less progressive students struggle with the fundamentals.

The University of Michigan has received more than 10,000 books during the past few months through the activities of the Society for the Expansion of the University of Michigan libraries. Expansion of the graduate school is being made possible through the recent gift of $5,000,000 from the trustees of the Horace and Mary A. Rackham fund.

West Fourth St., Charlotte
Remodeled
Air Conditioned

We Guarantee You
REAL THANKSGIVING DINNER
At The Little Pep Sandwich Shoppe
Enlarged

MONEY NO OBJECT IF IT'S A QUESTION OF HEALTH

Since 1799 thousands of people have regained their normal health after years of suffering from stomach troubles of all types, such as constipation, indigestion, gas, and sour stomach which are the basic factors of such maladies as high blood pressure, rheumatism, periodic headaches, pimples on face and body, pains in the back, liver, kidney and bladder disorder, exhaustion, loss of sleep and appetite. Those sufferers have not used any man-made injurious chemicals or drugs of any kind; they have only used a remedy made by Nature. This marvelous product grows on the highest mountain peaks, where it absorbs all the healing elements and vitamins from the sun to aid HUMANITY in distress. It is composed of 19 kinds of natural leaves, seeds, berries and flowers scientifically and proportionately mixed and is known as LION CROSS HERB TEA. LION CROSS HERB TEA tastes delicious, acts wonderfully upon your system, and is safe even for children. Prepare it fresh like any ordinary tea and drink a glassful once a day, hot or cold. A one dollar treatment accomplishes WONDERS; it makes you look and feel like new born. If you are not yet familiar with the beneficial effects of this natural remedy LION CROSS HERB TEA try it at once and convince yourself. Try it and convince yourself with our money-back guarantee. If not satisfactory money refunded to you.

One Week Treatment $1.00. Six Weeks Treatment $5.00

In order to avoid mistakes in getting the genuine LION CROSS HERB TEA, please fill out the attached coupon.

Lio-Pharmacy, Dept. 1180 Second Ave., New York City, N.Y.

Gentlemen: Enclosed find $ for which please send me treatments of the famous LION CROSS HERB TEA.

NAME