THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 30, 1935

REVEREND A. A. McLEAN SPEAKS ON SALVATION

Students Enjoy Lecture On ‘The Questions That Were Put To Christ”

TEXT TAKEN FROM LUKE

Urges Students To Put Sermon’s Meaning Into Practice

The Reverend A. A. McLean, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Lenoir, N. C., spoke at the College Vesper Services in Chambers Auditorium Sunday night, October 27. He selected his text from Luke XIII, 23, “Lord are they few that are saved?” He explained that many questions were put to Christ—some out of curiosity, some in earnestness, and some in an endeavor to catch Christ. He said that Christ never failed to answer these questions and in answering takes one word and explains the question in terms of that word.

Reverend McLean went on and showed that Jesus answered this question with the word “Salvation;” answering it in three parts. The first of these was that it is difficult to be saved—difficult to acknowledge Jesus as our Savior, it takes courage to declare God and to show we are his followers, and it is hard to pray as we are unable to remove common everyday obstacles that are in our way. The second was “There is no second chance.” “We decide our fate for eternity while we are alive on this planet and after death we have to live what we have decided on this earth,” said the Reverend McLean. Men often underestimate Sin and the kindness of causing their downfall. The third answer concerning Salvation is “No person is saved by any rank, title, or race, but only by faith.” He claimed that the Americans think they are the best race in the world, but in the sight of God, they are no better than any other race. He closed his sermon by urging everybody to put these things into their everyday life and habits.

Rival Journalists Appear In Village

“Weekly” and “Leader” Challenge Campus Publication

The Davidsonian now has two rivals in its midst, “The Davidson Weekly” and “The Davidson Leader.” These two local news revealers are edited by Jim Mooney and Edwin Shewmake, respectively. “The Weekly” was founded in 1930 by Carlisle Lewis, Davidson '36, and has proved to be a lucrative enterprise. After the regime of Editor Lewis, Bob Wood and his embryonic journalists, Frank Caldwell, Edwin Shewmake, Ed Jackson, Lewis Wood, and Jimmy Fulcher took over the operations. It proved such a success that a Model T Ford was purchased. In 1934 Editor Wood departed for Darlington Prep School and his duties were assumed by Jim Mooney, the present editor. Now “The Davidson Leader,” a deadly rival, has appeared on the scene. It is headed by Edwin Shewmake, formerly connected with the “Weekly.” He is ably assisted by Jimmy Fulcher and Kenneth Foreman. These deadly dispersers of the Davidson news appear every Saturday and have much interesting information concerning the capers and carrying-ons of the citizens of this fair community. After personally interviewing the rival editors, their only comment was “Look out ‘Davidsonian,’ here we come!”

Serving Davidson In Every Way Possible

SOUTHERN 5 & 10c Store

We Invite Your Criticism

Dr. Lingle Speaks To Quadwranglers

Topic Concerns “Interesting Persons and Places In Eastern Europe”

At the regular meeting of the Quadwrangler’s Club, of the Davidson faculty, last Thursday, October 24, Dr. W. Lingle spoke on the subject, “Interesting Persons and Places in Eastern Europe.” His talk was based on the eight weeks he spent this summer in the countries of Yugoslavia, Bulgaria, Romania, and Poland. Armed with letters of introduction from the various legations in Washington, Dr. Lingle met and conferred with a number of very interesting people including from three to five leading professors and from two to four cabinet ministers in each of the four countries. He held at least a twenty-minute conference with each one and often had lunch or dinner at their homes. Not more than three of the whole number could speak English—the rest he talked to in either German or French.

Some of the interesting places he visited included the large universities such as Jagellonian University in Cracow, the second largest center in Europe, where the famous Polish astronomer, Copernicus, received his first degree; Sarajevo, which played such a prominent part in the causing of the World War, and the Iron Gate, a celebrated pass on the Danube River. From one of the Bulgarian history professors, Dr. Lingle learned that every student in the history classes there could speak and write Latin and Greek well. The alphabet that they use in most of those countries today is a modified form of the old Greek, which accounts for his fluent use of the German language. This trip makes the thirteenth to Europe for Dr. Lingle. He began as a student in a German university.

Alpha Phi Epsilon Society Meets; Officers Are Elected

The Spanish honorary fraternity, Sigma Delta Pi, met for the first time this fall, last Wednesday, Oct. 23, in Shearer Hall. Officers were elected, and plans were laid for activities during the school year. During the semester a Spanish play will probably be presented, and lectures will be given on related subjects. There is a possibility of an exchange visit with the brother chapter at the University of South Carolina.

TERRY GROUP HOLDS MEETING

Philanthropic Society Initiates Twenty-Three Men Last Tuesday Night

The Philanthropic Literary Society initiated twenty-three new men last Tuesday night at its regular meeting. Locke White opened the meeting with the devotions, and David MacMillan led the group in prayer. George Hornbeck, president of the Society, put the new men through the order of initiation. This was begun with the reading of the following preamble:

“We, the undersigned, students of Davidson College, deeply sensible of the great importance of properly fitting ourselves for acting well our respective parts in the great arena of life, have resolved to form ourselves into a society, the objects of which shall be intellectual, moral, and social improvement. It shall be the aim of this society to cultivate the arts of elocution and composition, to promote a spirit of subordination to law and order, by engendering a high regard for virtues and truth, and to unite with us in a closer bond of friendship and fellow feeling those in whom we feel interested and deem worthy of our esteem.”

The following men were initiated: A. Ameen, J. I. Black, B. Carter, G. W. Coghill, W. W. Donigian, J. C. Doster, I. S. Furness, J. H. Gailey, H. L. Harkey, S. S. Henry, H. I. Holomen, R. M. Kerr, R. I. Lindsey, D. A. McQueen, W. E. Pope, G. W. Roberts, S. Smith, Thompson, C. M. Walters, L. White, Wm. Withers, D. B. Woodward, G. Woodward.

School Band Plays On Radio Program

Tucker and Pfohl Render Solos On Broadcast

The Davidson College concert band, led by Frank Tucker and Prof. J. C. Pfohl, broadcasted over station WBT, Charlotte, last Thursday, Oct. 24, in the first of the programs scheduled at this time. The next broadcast will be at four o'clock Thursday, Nov. 7. Following this, the broadcast will be at night, probably Friday, at ten o'clock.

At the conclusion of the theme song “O Davidson,” the band played two of Sousa’s best-known marches, “Washington Post” and “High School Cadets.” Seated at the console of the chapel organ, Prof. Pfohl then rendered Cossec’s “Gavotte” and “Prayer” from Hansel and Gretel, by Humperdinck. Following these organ selections, the band again returned to the microphone with the “Thunderer” and “Belle of Chicago” by Sousa. The musical program was then interrupted by news flashes, a weekly feature. Announcements of the Davidson-Citadel game, the Kryl band concert, and the jail service conducted by Rev. Peter Marshall were made.

Frank Tucker, baritone, resumed the musical part of the program with Foster’s “Old Black Joe,” accompanied by the organ. Again at the organ, Prof. Pfohl played “Berceuse” from Jocelyn by Godard. The band concluded the broadcast with a hymn, “Abide With Me” and another well-known Sousa march, “Under the Double Eagle.”

Alpha Phi Epsilon Holds Initial Meeting

The initial meeting of the year for Alpha Phi Epsilon, national forensic fraternity, took place Tuesday night. Wade Boggs presided, and plans for the year were outlined. It was decided that a program shall be provided for every meeting. Following debate tryouts, which occur November 15, about ten new men will be elected and initiated into the fraternity. Succeeding meetings will very largely deal with discussions of the query which is given the debating team for this year. Alpha Phi Epsilon, although it recognizes ability in forensics, is not confined to members of the debating team. Meetings are held every two weeks. Present members of the group are: Wade Boggs, Wilbur Edwards, Paul Harlan, Tyler Port, and Harold Sugg.

Philosopher To Lecture Friday

(Continued from Page 1)

Logic, and Ethics. His widely known book is “An Elementary Logic” and he has been general editor of Source Books in the History of the Sciences since 1924. Many of his articles have appeared in scientific and philosophical magazines. After the lecture, the Quadwranglers’ Club, Major Cochran, President, and the ladies of the Faculty will hold a reception in their hall in honor of Dr. Walcott.

BUFF SHOE SHOP

Excellent Food

First-Class Service

“When It’s Done BY BUFF That Says Enough”

HOTEL DAVIDSON

Among the Greeks

Young Willis Plays Fire Bug

Burns Father’s Chicken Coop

Small Boy’s Fiery Escapade Startles Town On Tuesday

BETA THETA PI: The weekly feed was held Sunday night with Professor Frontis Johnson among those present. Those down for the Davidson-Citadel football game Saturday included Brothers Roddy and Winn, and Misses Helen Faulkner and Elizabeth Gammon. The actives of Beta Theta Pi are having a reception for the pledges of other fraternities tonight at 8:30 P.M.

Four-year-old Bobby Willis, son of Mr. and Mrs. C. J. Willis, living on Concord Road, had himself a hot time last Tuesday afternoon. In an interview with this Davidsonian reporter, the young man related how he conceived the plan of firing his father’s untenanted chicken-house in retaliation for a severe chastisement he had recently received. He set the fire and then ran to the church steps to watch the fun. The flames sprang higher, and a wind from the south drove scorching blasts toward the house and pecan trees. Suddenly, he heard a scream, and he was snatched from his vantage point by his mother and hurried into the house. The fire siren blew, people came running, cars stopped in front of the house, and the yard filled rapidly with students from the college and others. The fire engine came too late.W. Lingle will make a talk at this received, building was already a roaring mass of time. Master Bobby bided his time until after flames. The conflagration was visible for

PI KAPPA ALPHA: Among the dinner on Tuesday, when his father went several miles. alumni attending the game here Saturday back to work, and his brothers went off Even after the excitement had died were Brother Charlie Harris and Brother to school, and his mother lay down for a down and the crowd had dispersed, Buck Mills. The chapter held their usual siesta. Then, armed with matches and Bobby experienced a feeling of exulta- iced Sunday night. papers from the kitchen, he stealthily ap- tion. But when inquiries began as to the

KAPPA ALPHA: The alumni here for proached the vacated outhouse. fire, he saw fit to withdraw. the game Saturday included George Batte, He entered the doomed building and Caylor Marion, Fred McPhail, and in a corner kindled a flame. He visited the charred remains of the Bearl no Smith. Brothers Abell and havings, which smouldered for a while, former domicile of Chanticleer, and it Gladden went to Chester, S.C., for the but then burst into flame and spread was here that his father came to him. weekend. until it enveloped the entire building in "Yes," concluded Young Bobby, with

SIGMA ALPHA EPSILON: The flames. a violent toss of his head and a hand to families of Brothers Kenneth Fryfogle The young arsonist retired to the his hip, "Crime does not pay." and Tom Marchant were here Saturday. ice house and took a nap. Fryfogle accompanied his family home

Lingle Talks Popular Orchestra Jolson went to Gastonia for the weekend. Misses Sally Jordan and Elizabeth Sunday Groups To Be Reorganized Sease were among those up for the game. The regular feed was held Sunday night.

KAPPA SIGMA: Misses Lath Car- "The Bible In War" Title Of "Chubby" King and His Band To son, Nancy Timberlake, Ann Dorcas Charlotte Sermon Play At Local Hotel White, and Mary Huger Wyatt at- tended the game Saturday. Over the past weekend Dr. W.L. "Chubby" King and his band will chase the practice Saturday. Lingle made two speeches. One was made hold sway over that palatial

CHI PHI: Dr. and Mrs. Spencer, to the First Methodist Church of Char- domain, the Davidson Hotel, every eve- Dr. and Mrs. McGeachy, and lotte on Sunday morning, and the other ning beginning Saturday, Nov. 9. Mr. and Mrs. McIlwaine were also Sunday afternoon to the Student Volun- present. Miss Betty Tompkins was guest teers. This year personnel will include of the chapter for supper Sunday night. The subject of Dr. Lingle's first talk "Chubby" King, Bronston as customary feed was given Sunday was given Sunday was "The Bible in War." Kenney, piano; Billy Crooks, drums; night. The text for the talk was from the second chapter of trumpet; Rex Beach, trombone; Edwin

PHI DELTA THETA: Brothers Isaiah: "Nation shall not lift up sword against nation, neither shall they learn Woolen, Walter Denman, and Billy Paton Hitt and Van Patterson spent war anymore." Dill Fraley, saxophone. the weekend at Georgia Tech. Brother The subject was dealt with in two Missing from the ranks are Iwolt, Mitchell and Brothers Arrowsmith and parts: 1. God's ideal for the world. This Cunningham, and Robinson, who played in Lewis visited their homes in Florence, ideal is set forth in the text, and in many the orchestra. Oris Holt is playing in S.C. Brothers Ellis and Patterson places in the scripture. Jesus came as New Orleans. went to Rock Hill for the weekend. the prince of peace and pronounced a blessing upon all peacemakers. 2. Chris- PHI GAMMA DELTA: Guests were tian people can keep on preaching indi- pictured in the files of the Delta Kappa Chapter who attended the game. vidual salvation, stand against the causes of war such as hate and greed, take the halo out of war, see it in its true light under cover of reality, stop glorifying war, help create an atmosphere in which war will not thrive, and stand for the Paris Pact outlawing war as a means of settling international disputes. In his speech to the Student Volun- teers, Dr. Lingle discussed the subject, "Kagawa, the Great Japanese Leader." First he gave an outline sketch of Kagawa and then he spoke of his work as an evangelist, author, and leader in social welfare. Dr. Lingle stated that it was especially appropriate to talk of Kagawa as he is due to arrive in San Francisco on December 1st, to spend about eight months on a speaking tour.

JOHNSON'S BARBER SHOP

Four Out of Five College Men

While at Davidson Dr. Walcott will be the guest of Professor and Mrs. T.W. Lingle, who were formerly associated with him in college work in Illinois. Upward of 18,000,000 people are playing basketball throughout the United States.

Masquers Give Broadway Hit

Showing All This Week

The Story of the Medical Outcast who put Gangdom on the Operating Table!

A Warner Bros. Picture with ANN DVORAK BARTON MacLANE

Balcony Prices After the Football Game or 25¢ After the Picture Show Any Time Day or Night

Is Coming, Mon., Tues., Wed. Nov. 4, 5, 6th.

WHITE DRUG CO. Complete Line of Halloween Candies

"PERSONAL MAIDS SECRET" With Margaret Lindsay