THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 6, 1935

Wildcats Meet Blue Devils In Fourteenth Annual Battle

Wildcats Have Won Four Games Since Beginning Of the Series In 1922

Heading this week’s grid attractions in the south, we find the Wade-coached Blue Devils invading Richardson field for their fourteenth
annual battle with the Davidson Wildcats. The battle with the Devils will feature homecoming for the Davidson alumni and, in
addition, the famous 1910 championship team will attend in full force to see for themselves that the widely renowned Wildcat
spirit still exists “in a great big way.”

Saturday's game will be the fourteenth edition of a time-ripened series that has continued regularly ever since 1922. Davidson never
played Duke University before 1922 because, before that time, that institution was known as Trinity College—a Methodist establishment. In that
year, however, Mr. J. B. Duke donated an enormous endowment fund for the school, and in his honor, the college
became Duke University.

This colorful rivalry has been carried on under three different coaches at Davidson and under two at Duke University. Coach
Grey was coaching the Wildcats back in 1922 when the annual contest was begun. The Dukes got the jump on
the ’Cats by taking the first of the series by a twelve to nothing count. Going back at random and
looking into history for some of the brighter moments in the series, we see the fighting Wildcats put up a
terrific battle only to finally succumb to their heavier foes to the tune of 12-0. Captain Moore played a beautiful
game in the final game of his career. Along with Moore, there were three other seniors who played magnificent ball
to polish off their college grid careers in fine style. They were Hunt, McMasters, and Faison.

1924 brought one of the most exciting games of the entire series to date. The Dukes were doped by all
the experts to take a smaller and lighter Davidson outfit in tow by at least two touchdowns. The ’Cats ignored
the fact that they were supposed to lose this game and sailed into the Dukes and scored first in the
beginning of the second quarter. But then it looked as if the sheer weight and power of the Devils' line
was going to batter the Wildcats down into total submission. It began to look like the Dukes had the game
early in the third quarter when the Devils battered down a tired and thin Red line for a touchdown. Then,
less than three minutes later, with another sustained march, the Blue Devils scored again but failed to convert for the
extra point. After the kickoff following the second marker, the battered Wildcats called for a timeout. After a few minutes'
rest, the Wildcats went back into the game a new team. In the fourth quarter, the ’Cats darkened the air
with a pass barrage that was good for two touchdowns within the last ten minutes of play. The ’Cats put
on an exhibition of pure courage that has never been equaled since. It was a team that had to depend
not on power nor on experienced football but on sheer spirit and courage. The mighty men of Davidson were outweighed
nineteen pounds per man but managed to come out on the long end of the score, 21-13.

Then the very next year, the ’Cats put out a better team even than the year before—in fact, it was
just good enough to wallop the Blue Devils all over the field for a 26-0 victory. On this team were
six seniors who had brilliantly played their final game for Alma Mater. Among them, Dick Grey, Arre, and Baker stood
out in the lineup. After this deciding final game of the season, the 4,000 spectators rushed on the field and
hoisted every member of the team onto their shoulders and carried them off the field.

Then in the next year, even with six of the regular team lost to the Wildcats, Coach Younger did the
impossible. He turned out a state championship team that swept aside all opposition in the state and, in the last
game of the season with the Dukes, they became the undisputed champions of the “Old North State.” This year they
smashed the Dukes 20-0. Again this year, the Dukes were heavier and more powerful, but the Younger-coached machine clicked with
a pass attack that settled the count. The combination of Nesbit and Grey were doing the ground gaining.

Then, down to more recent times, in 1929, Thad Brock was responsible for a game being “pulled out of the
hole.” It was in the final game of the season and the ’Cats were playing the Dukes and the score
stood 12-6 in favor of the Devils. In the dying minutes of the game, Thad Brock, an end who did
all the punting for the ’Cats, was called on to punt from behind his own goal line. The ball was
snapped to Brock and, being badly rushed, he lit out on a run that was doomed to make history at
Davidson. He ran 102 yards down the sideline before he was finally brought down on the Blue Devils' five-yard line.
This brilliant run paved the way for the touchdown that won the game for the ’Cats. Furnished with such an
inspiring run, the ’Cats almost went wild and gathered a pretty badly battered team together just enough to ram over
the winning marker.

Here on Saturday, the Dukes will be after their ninth win over the ’Cats and the Red and Black machine
will be out gunning for their fifth victory. The two teams have tied but once—that was in 1931 when they
fought to a scoreless tie. The year that the Devils had their potential “Rose Bowl” eleven, with Freddie Crawford, All-American
tackle, the sturdy ’Cats held the Blue Devils to a 19-7 score.

Trinity College claims to have introduced the first real football in the South. They beat the University of North Carolina
17-0 back in 1887. It was the first real intercollegiate game south of the Potomac.

It’s impossible to get a college degree in Italy now without proficiency in military science.

Cochran Is Winner Of Flag Golf Tournament

The Flag or “Tombstone” golf tournament, mentioned in The Davidsonian several weeks ago, came off in good shape on the
local course last Saturday afternoon. While a smaller number of entries than was expected turned out, the tournament was a
big success, judging from the interest shown by the participants and by requests for a repetition at an early date.

In this kind of tournament, each member of the club is allotted a certain number of strokes; the par of
the course (72) plus his handicap, the latter being enough to give him an equal chance with the best player.
Handicaps are determined by taking the average of scores previously turned in and then adding the handicap indicated by a
standard table.

Major Cochran was the winner with two strokes to go after turning the 18th hole. Prof. Fulcher came second, being
within a foot of the cup on the 18th. Prof. Mebane, in third place, planted his flag on the 18th
fairway. Mr. Myers, shooting one of his poorest games, staked out midway on the 14th fairway. No doubt the work
and worry of packing to move to Albemarle caused him to be so badly off his game. While the others
were shouting “Excelsior” and pressing forward, their strokes gave out and their banners were planted along the rugged mountainside.

Those competing were Messrs. McClure, Blythe, Myers, Hegenveld, Cochran, Black, Fulcher, Hobart, Howard, Mebane, McGavock, Watts, and Frank Stough.

-AT YOUR DRUGGIST-

Pictured above from left to right: Junior Golf Team, Blue Devils Mentors, and Eddie Cameron, assistant coach.Backfield coach. Wingate College
and Coach Unger’s “Pros” Battle To Scoreless Tie

All College Americans fought the Davidson College Wingate eleven to a scoreless tie at Monroe, Friday afternoon, November 1. The
game proved to be listless and marred by frequent fumbles. In the second quarter, the Wingate team reached the Davidson
ten-yard line due to a Davidson fumble. However, here Coach Unger’s “Pros” held for four downs, and the ball changed
hands. In the last bracket, the “B’s” reached Wingate’s nine by a series of drives, where they tossed two incomplete
passes over the goal as the game ended. There were no first downs made by either team during the first
half of the game. Many incomplete passes were hurled by both teams, the All-Americans completing only one for a gain
of about five yards, while Dyll Nicholson intercepted one of the Wingate tosses.

There were a number of odd plays that took place during the game. Among these was one by Charlie Brown,
Davidson half-back, who fumbled while attempting to kick. The ball rolled back about five yards where Brown picked it up
and got off one of his best kicks of the day. Those men standing out on the Davidson team were
King, Lanier, and Sadler, all of whom shone on the defense. The average football suit weighs 34 pounds, which is
about the weight of a trotting horse sulky.

Oxford University (England) officials have removed virtually all restrictions against women students. All degrees at that institution are now open
to men and women alike.

BIG FIVE TEAMS WIN OUT LAST WEEK-END

U.N.C. Downs N.C. State; Duke Defeats Tennessee; Wake Forest Takes P.C.

FAVORITES VICTORIOUS

Carolina’s high-scoring eleven put up their “Dukes” and knocked the State Wolfpack into a 35-6 defeat. The Vols were downed
19-0. It was a very successful week-end for Big Five teams.

CAROLINA—Led by their great D, Jack, the Tar Heels showed up the best team that Hunk Anderson has turned out
since his arrival at the University. After Montgomery had plowed his way to one score, Wallace Wade, head coach; Ellis
Hagler, line coach; Carl Voyles, end coach; and the rest of the team were held well in check. In the
second quarter, Jackson passed the remaining 20 yards for a touchdown. This demonstrated the Tar Heels’ power and their ability
to execute plays. The summary showed Carolina burying State under an avalanche of five touchdowns. They are expected to meet
the Virginia Cavaliers at Chapel Hill this Saturday.

Seven Clean Slates Marred

Notre Dame, Carolina, and Minnesota Head List Of Undefeated Elevens

Fresh from their magnificent victory over Manhattan, the Seniors are third, and the Sophomores bring up the rear. The Freshmen
Monday afternoon overhauled the high-flying Juniors by a score of 27-22 and went into a tie with the Juniors for
the lead in the current interclass basketball competition. The Seniors, captained by Bill Bell, led off the season by trimming
the Sophomores, coached by Lawrence Reid, 25-18. Downie got eight points for the Seniors, while Doug Neal rang up five
points for the Sophomores. The Freshmen won their first tilt in an extra-time tussle with the Frosh team winning, 22-18.

The third game was the most thrilling struggle of all with the Juniors finally beating the luckless Sophomores, 20-24. Gilks
scored eight points for the Sophomores, while Woodward led the Juniors with thirteen points. In the fourth game, the Juniors
beat the Freshmen 34-19. Three Juniors, “Mokey” Faison, Hancock, and Armstrong, rang up ten points each while Tice scored ten
points for the yearlings. The Juniors next defeated the Seniors, 41-21 in a one-sided game. Hancock, lanky Junior center, scored
fifteen points, while Hamrick racked up twelve points for the Seniors. The Freshmen won a slow game from the Sophomores,
28-18. Tice, Johnson, and Lee starred for the Frosh while Gilks and Neal led the Sophomores.

Notre Dame, in the most spectacular comeback in recent years, managed to halt Ohio State’s Scarlet Scourge, seven heretofore undefeated
and untied football teams toppled from their positions, leaving only a few schools with perfect records. Notre Dame, California, North
Carolina, Minnesota, Marquette, Texas Christian, Southern Methodist, Dartmouth, New York University, Princeton, and Syracuse still have spotless records. The University
of California in Los Angeles, Ohio State, Catholic University, Baylor, and Iowa received their first blots last Saturday.

Notre Dame, by virtue of its defeat over Ohio State, becomes probably the leading team of the country. North Carolina
holds the hopes of the South for a Rose Bowl contender, and California just now seems to be the best
of the West Coast lot. In the East, Princeton, N.Y.U., Dartmouth, and Syracuse obviously lead the field, while Marquette and
Minnesota will challenge Notre Dame's rights for the top spot.

DAVIDSON VARSITY LINE

1936 ‘CATS TO MEET DEVILS

According to arrangements which have been made between Professor Fred Blythe, acting Director of Athletics at Davidson, and Duke’s Athletic
Director, the Wildcat-Blue Devil grid contest for next year will be waged in Greensboro’s Memorial stadium on the night of
September the 29th under the floodlights. The struggle will be the first time the two teams have played in a
night contest.

Send Her FLOWERS For the Dances

Thacker’s, Inc. “A Good Place to Eat” Welcome Davidson 118 South Tryon Street Charlotte, N.C. NEXT TO SAPP’S WILDCAT BAR

WELCOME ALUMNI

MAKE THIS THE BEST HOMECOMING BY MAKING OUR STORE YOUR HEADQUARTERS

COLLEGE PHARMACY

JUST AS POPULAR TOUCHDOWN-TASTE
