THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 13, 1935

BROWN RELATES NEY ANECDOTES

Economics Professor Tells Story Of Seal Designer On College Program

The Davidson College program, broadcast as usual over station WBT in Charlotte at 9:00 P.M., last Friday night, had as its feature last week a talk by Dr. C. K. Brown, professor of Economics. The concert band, under the direction of Prof. James C. Pfohl, formed the principal part of the program.

The program opened as usual with the rendition of “O Davidson” by the band, with “Skip” Brown as announcer. After the preliminary announcements, the band played “The Belle of Chicago,” a march by John Phillip Sousa.

Dr. Brown then came to the microphone and gave an instructive talk on the legend of Marshal Ney of France as it is believed by the people of this section of North Carolina. Dr. Brown now owns a part of the land on which Ney is said to have lived, and has collected a great deal of information from the stories which circulate concerning the mysterious figure of one Peter Stuart Ney, who at times claimed to be Napoleon’s great lieutenant.

Dr. Brown told how Ney is said to have escaped execution in France and to have come to this country, where he settled in this section of North Carolina. He also told the story of how Ney designed the Davidson College seal, and of how he often came to use the Davidson library. Some books now in the library bear some of Ney’s comments scribbled on their margins. Immediately following Dr. Brown’s talk, the band played La Marseillaise, the national anthem of France.

“Campus Topics,” weekly news-flashes from the Davidson campus, came next on the program. Prof. Pfohl then played a cornet solo, “Love's Old Sweet Song,” accompanied at the piano by Mrs. Pfohl. Then the full band rendered a choral entitled “Thy Majesty How Vast It Is.” The final number on the program was Massenet’s “The Angelus,” played as a solo on the organ by Prof. Pfohl. The program was signed off by the playing of “O Davidson!” by the college band during the final announcement.

Whiteman’s Protege To Be Sabin’s Star

The last thing that you would be likely to accuse Bob Carter, Paul Sabin's young soloist, of being is a coal miner. He doesn’t blink when he comes into the light. He isn’t stoop-shouldered. Although his hair is coal black, his shirt and his face appear to be quite clean. Somehow when you look at and listen to Bob Carter, coal mining just never enters your mind.

But if Paul Whiteman is to be believed, scarcely a year ago Bob Carter spent his days swinging a pick at the bottom of a Pennsylvania mine, exercising the happy, and as it turned out for him, lucky faculty of singing while he worked. Here's the way Mr. Whiteman tells of his finding of young Carter: He was playing on a program in Pittsburgh, when one of his friends told him of a young coal miner who had a wonderful voice. That night about 4 A.M., Whiteman and his friend went out to the coal mine and found Carter sitting on a lump of coal singing with four other men. Whiteman persuaded Carter to put away his pick and come to New York with him. Here, after a few lessons, he was introduced over the air by Whiteman as the “singing coal miner.”

This, however, is Mr. Whiteman’s story. To tell the facts in a straight way, it must be said that Bob Carter has never worked in a coal mine in his life, and that he has never shoveled a bucket of coal. Mr. Whiteman’s story was one which he used to introduce him over the air, but he must have had his facts mixed for he is a very busy man and it would be hard for him to keep them straight. Under Mr. Whiteman’s sponsorship, he soon received bids from several famous orchestras. He accepted one to sing with Paul Sabin’s orchestra, which was then playing at the Tavern in New York.

The true story is that Carter does come from a mining town which is Indiana, Pa. One day while Whiteman was seeking a bit of golf, he stopped at the home of a friend next door to Carter’s home. While there he heard Carter singing away lustily and upon investigating, the opportunity of Carter’s life resulted.

SPONSORS FOR MID-WINTER DANCES

ANNA MAE FEUTCHENBERGER
CHRISTINE COOK
MARY BESS VAN LANDINGHAM
BETTY HAMBRIGHT
NANCY NALLE
KATHERINE CROWELL
CHLOE FRIERSON
MARY CLARE STOKES

The girls pictured above will be the sponsors for the Mid-Winter dances which will be held in Charlotte this coming weekend. Miss Nell White with Mr. P. M. Rogers, Phi Gamma Delta, President Pan-Hellenic Council; Mary Clare Stokes with Mr. Hugh Yelverton, Pi Kappa Phi, Secretary-Treasurer Pan-Hellenic Council; Miss Nancy Nalle with Mr. J. A. C. Wadsworth, Sigma Alpha Epsilon; Miss Anna Mae Feutchenberger with Mr. C. C. Harris, Pi Kappa Alpha; Miss Katherine Crowell with Mr. E. F. McPhail, Kappa Alpha; Miss Mary Bess Van Landingham with Mr. D. M. Glasgow, Phi Delta Theta; Miss Christine Cook with Mr. A. C. Rogers, Sigma Phi Epsilon; Miss Betty Hambright with Mr. W. B. Ravenel, Kappa Sigma; Miss Chloe Frierson, Phi Gamma Delta.

Ministerial Band Discusses Change

Ministerial Candidates Discuss Deputations And Constitutional Changes

A special meeting of the Ministerial Band was called this past Sunday to discuss several issues confronting it regarding deputations and the repeal of one of the amendments of the Constitution. Under the past status, no ministerial candidate could secure a key without having served three years on the band. The Constitution, under its present revision, allows the member to own a key after he has served for one complete semester. This change was brought about when it was foreseen that transfers from other colleges would be utterly unable to secure a key at all.

Jack Alexander has been appointed to look after the problem of revising the order of the key. It was voted that the key should be changed from the typical cross to a regular scholastic key. Mr. Jackson is also aiding in procuring the desired shape. Murphy Smith, president of the Ministerial Band, expressed the importance of having as many of the group present as possible at all the meetings. Deputations to Charlotte, Mooresville, and other points are being arranged this week, and it is necessary that all members help out insofar as they are capable.

Gamma Sigma Epsilon Plans Coming Election

Several papers of importance and interest were presented by members at the regular meeting of Gamma Sigma Epsilon, honorary chemistry fraternity, held on Tuesday, February 5. Hervey Ross submitted a paper on the recovery of ammonia, while Lodge’s paper dealt with his own research of the chromates of ammonia. Ed Womble spoke on local water analyses made by the chemistry class. James was in charge of the evening’s program. The subject of the program was “Folk Music of France.”

Plans were then made for a coming election of officers, and for an open session of the fraternity.For a free copy of Witord's Massage.

Around Town

The As You Like It Club held its annual open meeting Friday night, at the Civic League Hall. Captain Charles W. Seifert presented an interesting lecture, “The Panama Canal Zone.” Mrs. F. M. Cochran is president of the club.

The Sorosis Club met Friday night at the home of Mrs. T. W. Lingle. Miss Julia Passmore was the hostess of the evening.

Dr. and Mrs. W. J. Martin have left for Florida to spend several weeks.

A daughter was born Saturday morning, to Mr. and Mrs. Heath Whittle.

The Heifetz violin concert at Winthrop College, Rock Hill, S.C., attracted several Davidson people. Those attending were: Miss Orrie Steele, Mr. Warren Babcock, Mrs. J. P. Williams, Dr. G. R. Vowles, Richard Vowles, Emmett Horine, Bill Link, Carleton Chapman, and Kenneth Scott.

The Civic League held its regular monthly meeting Tuesday afternoon. Routine business was transacted.

Mrs. W. E. Potts entertained at two informal teas Tuesday and Wednesday afternoons.

Prof. and Mrs. Carl C. Forsaith, of the College of Forestry of Syracuse University, spent the weekend with Prof. and Mrs. George B. Watts. Prof. Forsaith is on sabbatical leave and is touring the south and southwest.

Many Deputations During Past Week

Deputations Visit Charlotte, Huntersville, Statesville

The deputations department of the Davidson Y.M.C.A. has been quite busy recently. Wade Boggs spoke Sunday afternoon at the Charlotte Y.M.C.A. to a group of older boys, while at the same time, Walter Dixon spoke to a group of younger boys of Charlotte. Tommy Phifer spoke at the convict camp near Huntersville on Sunday afternoon, and Bob Leonard furnished the music for the occasion. R. W. Johnsten sang and Don Brandon was the speaker of the evening at a special service for young people held at the Front Street Presbyterian Church in Statesville Sunday night. Sid Harvey and Glass represented Davidson College at the meeting of the state Y.M.C.A. cabinet in Greensboro on Saturday and Sunday. Mr. Glass returned to the campus Sunday afternoon, and Mr. Marsh on Monday morning. This meeting was composed of leaders of the Young Men's Christian Associations and Young Women's Christian Associations of North Carolina colleges.

Dr. and Mrs. H. M. Moffett are spending a few days with their daughter, Carolina, in Richmond, Virginia.

Joseph Brinkman, who presented a piano concert last night, was the guest of Prof. James C. Pfohl and Mrs. Pfohl for the last four days.

Class In Sociology Conducts Surveys

Student Group Observes Juvenile And Domestic Relations Courts Thursday

The Sociology class spent the greater part of last Thursday in Charlotte observing the work of the Juvenile and Domestic Relations Courts of that city. This visit was made possible through the courtesy of Judge T. W. Alexander, who presides over both courts. Judge Alexander not only allowed the students to attend his court, but he also allowed the cases to accumulate for a week in order that they might witness a representative section of his work.

As the work of the class this semester deals largely with various social problems, its members were quite interested in the methods of handling the cases of juvenile delinquency or marital difficulties which come before this bench. On this field trip, they also sought the answers to a number of questions involving this field of social study, among them:

“What type of case is most frequent?”
“What is the proportion of cases between white and colored?”
“What are repeaters?”
“What proportion of the delinquents are repeaters?”
“What disposal is made of the cases?”
“Are any provisions made for case study?”
“Has the depression had any effect on the number of cases?”
“What of the work of the Jackson Training School?”
“Are the churches interested in this work?”
“What is the attitude of the offenders?”

From the session Thursday, it would appear that there is a preponderance of juvenile delinquency cases, and that, while a larger number of white girls are brought into court on delinquency charges, the number of negro boys arraigned is larger. Quite a few of the offenders were “repeaters.” Many of the young delinquents were placed on probation, a number were sent to the Jackson Reform School, and a few were sentenced to a brief term in the detention quarters. Judge Alexander stated that unfortunately no adequate provision has yet been made for case study, although work has been undertaken along that line. He heartily approved the accomplishments of the Jackson Training School and other institutions of a similar nature. The churches evince little interest in the work of his court. The attitude of the offenders is usually good. They accept counsel in the spirit with which it is given and seldom rebel against their sentence.

The class also visited the Detention Quarters for young delinquents and the Mental Hygiene Clinic. The latter, which deals with both above-normal and sub-normal children, was not open at the time of the visit, but the nurse in charge very obligingly explained its work to the students and answered their questions regarding it.

A report of this field trip and its findings was given during the regular session of the class Tuesday.

JASCHA HEIFETZ GIVES PROGRAM AT WINTHROP

World Famous Violinist Considers Music A Favorable Student Profession

(Interviewed by Richard Vowles)

As Jascha Heifetz, world famous violinist, appeared on the stage of the Winthrop College auditorium, a burst of applause greeted him from the audience. Mr. Heifetz bowed his appreciation with a suavity and calm of perfect stage presence but, like many musicians, did not proffer his audience the least trace of a smile. After a careful tuning of his violin, he began the most brilliant, the most spell-binding violin concert it has been my pleasure to hear. Technically speaking, he deserves his title as one of the world’s greatest violinists, his endowment in that field is exhaustive. His staccato bowing, his trills, and his double stops held the audience breathless. Again and again, Mr. Heifetz was called back for encores, much to the delight of the Davidson delegation on the first row. He was extremely generous and responded with numbers of universal appeal.

This interviewer, having determined to speak to the famed musician, near the end of the concert bolted for the stage door, where he was intercepted by one of the loveliest of the college marshals. “I’m sorry, no one can go backstage.” “But I want an interview for The Davidsonian.” Evidently, she had had favorable experiences with Davidson representatives, for she allowed me to step in. Then, as Jascha Heifetz played “The Bumblebee,” and the manager conferred as to the best method of getting rid of reporters, this interviewer tried to look hopeful. Finally, the violinist, relinquished by the enthralled audience, left the stage and proceeded carefully to encase his instrument. Thinking it most expedient to act promptly, this novice plunged in.

“How do you like the South?” “Very well, although this is not the first tour I have made here.” His stage presence had vanished and he smiled amiably. “Do you think the South offers great opportunity for musical development?” “Yes, I believe so.” “Do you think music, as a profession, has great possibilities for the college student?” “Yes, but of course this depends largely on the individual student and his talent.” “Do you think jazz is injuring good music?” “No, I have not noticed that Bach, Beethoven, and other immortal musicians have suffered to any extent.” “Do you think radio is an aid to good music?”

(Continued on Page 6, Col. 4)

Catching COLD? for nose & throat

United in spirit and aim
Never failing in loyalty to Christ
Initiative in Biblical research
Endeavoring to uphold His commands
Onward pressing to universal brotherhood
Neglecting never to follow the Light.
Spiritually-minded; Scripturally-living
In scholarship not inexpert
Nearness to truthful interpretation
Always seeking spiritual progress
Reaching out in service
Yearning to bring all to Him!