THE DAVIDSONIAN » MARCH 27, 1935

European Tour Is Offered Dr. Lingle
Unknown Donor Presents President And Wife With Two-Month Vacation

Dr. W. L. Lingle, president of Davidson College, still believes in luck. With his plans for the summer almost completed,
including some very important speaking engagements in different parts of the country, the Davidson head was recently informed by a
member of the faculty that a friend of the college wanted to give Dr. and Mrs. Lingle a two months’
vacation trip in Europe. After hearing the good news, Dr. Lingle is now cancelling his scheduled speaking appointments and is
planning to leave this country sometime in June for Rome, where he will start on an extensive northward tour through
Europe. The person making the gift to Dr. and Mrs. Lingle is known only to the member of the faculty
who extended the excellent offer, and asks to remain only “a friend of the college.”

CARS FOR RENT
Gulf Gas and Oil
M. P. HENDERSON
“Run it...”

AT THE LOCAL THEATRE

Wednesday and Thursday, March 27, 28
GOLD DIGGERS OF 1935
This is Warner Brothers’ latest musical and is said to be as good if not better than their previous ones.
There are many good new dance routines and several of the latest song hits, including “Lullaby of Broadway.” It is
said to be one of the best pictures of its kind ever produced. The cast includes Dick Powell, Adolphe Menjou,
Gloria Stuart, and Alice Brady.

Friday, March 29
THE MARINES ARE COMING
This fast-moving picture marks the return of William Haines to the screen after quite an absence. This picture deals with
marine life and it is very interesting, and William Haines lends much spice and action to it. He is supported
by Ester Ralston and Conrad Nagle.

Saturday, March 30
THE GREAT HOTEL MURDER
This is a very exciting mystery starring Edmund Lowe and Victor McLaglen. They render their usual comedy and give a
very good performance. Rosemary Ames is also in the cast.

Monday, April 1
THE FLORENTINE DAGGER
With Margaret Lindsey and Donald Woods.

“DRUGS” “SUNDRIES”
A Complete Drug Store
“Make Our Store Your Store”
Reliable Prescription Druggist
White Drug Co.
“SODAS” “PRESCRIPTIONS”

Cochran Selected To Pursue Course
Famous Davidson Athlete Chosen From Seventy-Five

Miller Cochran has had another laurel placed on his head. This time by the Air Corps of the United States
Army, which recently chose him as one of the twenty men most worthy to continue in the aviation course at
Randolph Field, Texas. From seventy-five men that entered the course six months ago, twenty were selected to continue the study
which holds as its goal a position as officer in the United States Air Corps.

While in Davidson, Miller made himself known in many fields of endeavor, the most noteworthy were track and R. O.
T. C. As a member of the class of '34 Cochran set the school record for both the shot put
and the discus. These records were followed by his breaking the state shot record. In the Reserve Officers Training Corps
he was a cadet captain. For the whole of his senior year he acted in the capacity of the captain
of the Davidson Military Band. This position is a great honor in itself, and worthy of keeping his name in
the minds of Davidson students for years to come. However, all his work as captain of the band is overshadowed
by his brilliant record as an athlete.

At the end of the year’s training Miller hopes to enter the regular army as an officer. This will only
be possible if the present enlistment in the army is increased and thus make it necessary to accept more officers
into active service. If, however, the opportunity of entering the army is available at the end of this training, Cochran
will enlist to serve for at least a two-year period, or he may devote his life to the work as
an officer in the Army Air Corps.

Miller Cochran has been in the training school about six months, occupied with a course that requires one year to
complete. Miller is now halfway through with the instruction and probably the end of the next six months’ period will
find this son of Davidson an officer in the greatest air service in the world.

Davidson To Celebrate Athletic Day May 16
Davidson's annual Athletic Day will be celebrated May 16, according to an announcement by Captain Pritchett.It is customary to wait
until all spring sports have been completed before celebrating this day. The program will be held during the chapel hour
and will consist of the presentation of athletic awards and an address by a guest speaker prominent in college athletics.
A medal for the greatest physical improvement during the year will be awarded to some member of the student body.
There will be a gymnastic medal presented to the student who has proven most proficient in the gymnastic competition. All
men who have won letters in spring sports will receive them together with an athletic certificate. The guest speaker for
the occasion has not yet been chosen and will be announced at a later date. Many outstanding figures in college
athletics have been presented to the student body on this program. Among those readily called to mind were Dr. Sanford,
athletic director at the University of Georgia, Professor Daugherty, of the University of Tennessee, and Coach Bob Fetzer, of the
University of North Carolina. Last year Mr. Byrd, athletic director and vice-president of the University of Maryland, was the guest
speaker and proved to be very popular with the student body.

Psychology Professor Is Confined By Illness

Dr. Frazer Hood, professor of psychology, has not met his classes in psychology since last Wednesday, March 20. Dr. Hood
is at his home on Concord Street. The nature of his illness is not known. His wife, when asked what
was the nature of his illness, said, “I don’t know what his trouble is, but I guess it’s the flu,
though.” It is still indefinite as to when Dr. Hood will return to his classes. He will be away from
his duties several days yet, but he is expected to be up and about soon.

Davidson Joins A. A. U.; All Of Big Five Enter

Davidson for the first time has joined a conference along with other colleges of the Carolinas. She has joined the
American Athletic Union. This is the first time in the history of the school and also the first time the
A. A. U. has been established in the Carolinas. The A. A. U. has been established in the Carolinas in
order that they could conduct meets without writing to the headquarters in Miami, Fla. Duke, Wake Forest, and the rest
of the colleges in the Carolinas had joined this union and they plan for the headquarters to be in Charlotte,
N. C.

SCIENCE PROGRAM PLANNED

Sigma Pi Sigma, physics fraternity, and Gamma Sigma Epsilon, chemistry fraternity, plan to go to Charlotte during the first part
of April to hold a joint meeting with the chemistry and physics societies of Queens-Chicora College. The program for this
meeting has not been completed, but several demonstrations and papers are being planned. Dr. Walter Lingle occupied the pulpit of
the Belmont Presbyterian Church Sunday, March 24th.

Medicated Ingredients of Vicks VapoRub in Convenient Candy Form

VICKS COUGH DROP

Third Year Men Lead Decathlon

(Continued from Page 4)

Frazier took another first in the low hurdle race with a run of 28.2 seconds. He was followed by Dickson
and John Lee. Bob Gregory added another first place to his collection with a 5 foot, 2 inch high jump.
He was followed by Wicker and Parcell, who made five feet. There were no entries for the pole vault and
Dickson, Frazier, and Gammon in order led the broad jump contest. Dickson with 31 feet, 6 inches held a two-inch
lead over Byerly in the shot put and Byerly was followed by Frazier. John Lee heaved the discus 106 feet,
10 inches to lead Dick Johnson by nearly nine inches. MacFadyen was third. In the javelin throw Dickson took first
with 144.2 and one-half inches. He was followed by John Pearce and Bill Bell. Miss Carolina Moffett and Harry Moffett
of Richmond, Va., were weekend guests at the manse.

Four Out of Five College Men Come To JOHNSON’S Barber Shop

“—and how shall they hear without a preacher?”

A True School of the Prophets

UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY
RICHMOND, VIRGINIA

I give you the mildest smoke, the best-tasting smoke. I do not irritate your throat. You wonder what makes me
different. For one thing, it’s the mild, fragrant, expensive center leaves. I spurn the little, sticky, top leaves... so bitter
to the taste. I scorn the coarse bottom leaves, so harsh and unappetizing. I am careful of your friendship, for
I am made of only
