THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 27, 1935

Chemistry Men Attend Meeting
(Continued from Page 1)

Grand Recorder, Dr. D. H. Howard of Davidson College; Grand Visor, Dr. J. F. Conn of Stetson University; Grand Chancellor,
Dr. Pirenian of the University of Florida; Grand Keeper of the Kult, Professor O. J. Thies of Davidson College. The
Eighth Biennial National Convention was closed Saturday night by a banquet. The colleges which were represented at the convention were:
Davidson College; North Carolina State College; University of Florida; University of Alabama; Wake Forest College; Georgetown College in Kentucky; Stetson
University in Florida; The University of Wyoming; the University of Chattanooga; Saint Lawrence University in New York; and the Mississippi
State College for Women.

Red And Black Masquers Give Three-Act Play
(Continued from Page 1)

by Miss Orrie Steele; Dillon’s bodyguards, by W. S. Nicholson and A. J. Stevens; and Joe Salvatore, by J. Y.
Wilson. In the second act, Porter divulges his murder scheme to the thugs, who are frankly skeptical until the plan
is demonstrated. The plot is to place cyanide in the Crime Commissioner's toothpaste, thus making the death appear to be
heart failure. The commissioner will be on the train at this time, and Charlie has already obtained tickets to the
berth opposite his. Instead of giving Charlie real cyanide, as the thugs suppose, Porter has handed him the harmless sugar
that he has obtained from his dinner tray. Some time after Charlie has left, the couple receive word that he
has lost the “sugar cyanide” and obtained the “real stuff” from Herman's drugstore. Now, as the third act begins, Porter
has three lives in his hands, the Crime Commissioner's, Toby's, and his own. As the curtains part, Wally enters the
stage and sits down at the table in the foreground. At a casual glance around the room, his attention is
drawn to the torn telephone wires from which the telephone has been snatched in an earlier scene. First, he tries
Morse Code with the two ends, but finds this unsuccessful. Then, after various manipulations, he contrives, with the use of
the radio, a device that will enable him to not only hear “central” but to get word to her. By
means of the contraption, he calls for help and notifies Mr. McFarren, the commissioner, to get off the train. In
the end, the gang is scattered, Dillon seized, and Porter telephones his last message to the commissioner: “Don't brush your
teeth tonight, Mr. McFarren.” The play was directed by Dave Herring and W. F. Pierce, and under the direction of
Prof. E. J. Erwin. The stage managers were Earl Clark and Dunlap Covington.

Vowles Speaks To Volunteers
(Continued from Page 3)

seem more than one man could do. In 1913, just before the World War, Schweizer went to Africa. He took
his money in gold, so that the devaluation of the mark did not affect him. Being in French Congo, however,
he was imprisoned as a prisoner of war. He had already gained the love and confidence of the natives, who
could not understand why “white men imprison white men and put black men over them.” The blacks treated his guards
with contempt—and hate, for daring to assume a superiority over him—the guards being blacks also. Schweizer had learned that the
natives were no more healthy than the Europeans, and had much the same diseases. He was able to do much
good before his detention. His fellow missionaries told him to go ahead with his preaching, and he found great joy
and blessing in being able to do so. Later, he was taken to a concentration camp in France, where almost
every kind of person, engaged in almost every trade imaginable, were detained. From these he learned much, which he could
not have learned any other way. He also served the concentration camp as physician, being the only one. Thus he
turned even his greatest misfortune into great good. The concentration camp, however, told on his health, and when invited to
go to Sweden to deliver a number of lectures he was very low in health. However, the climate was excellent,
and he improved rapidly, finally becoming strong enough to return to Africa, where he continued with his work. Schweizer’s philosophy
of life consists in doing one’s very best for the furtherance of the Kingdom of God. He considers that every
man has a part, whether he is a religious worker all the time, or only as a side issue with
his main work of earning a living. Schweizer believes that modern Christianity has covered up the original Jesus, and that
the way to really find Him, is to study Him unencumbered by human additions and traditions. Schweizer has certainly found
Jesus, and made Him a mighty power in his life. The thing, he says, that has kept him faithful to
the religion of Jesus, has been constant thinking. Thinking, far from raising doubts, has only served to confirm the faith
of this wonderful man, one of the greatest foreign missionaries of all time.

New Proposals Discussed By I. R. C.
(Continued from Page 3)

they pass, will be invited to write a paper on some current topic of international choice. These papers will be
taken and discussed by the club and then voted on. The ones which pass this vote will be taken intothe
club, Professor Frontis W. Johnston of the History Department was elected faculty advisor to the club when it met Friday
night. Professor Johnston is one of the new members of the faculty, joining it only this semester. The Davidson International
Club will send a delegate to the meeting of the Model League Assembly, which will be held December 6 and
7 at Winthrop College. Winthrop is a girl’s school located at Rock Hill, S.C. The delegate is to be chosen
at a later meeting it was announced. This Model League is a league of college students organized after the fashion
of the League of Nations and is for the purpose of teaching students the value of such work. The attendance
was very good it was reported. There were only three members absent. There was no planned program at the last
meeting as it was devoted entirely to business. The International Relations Club is a national organization for the purpose of
studying and discussing current national affairs and problems of national and international scope. On the Davidson campus it is one
of the most active of the honorary groups. Last year the Southeastern Conference of the I.R.C. was held at Davidson.

Wildcats And Deacons Renew Ancient Rivalry In Turkey Day Classic (Continued from Page 4)
line shape for the clash with the Deacs, with the exception possibly of Paul Pittman, who was injured in scrimmage
against the “All-Americans” Monday afternoon. Whether Pittman will start the game depends on the seriousness of the knee ailment. Pittman
was helped off the field to the trainer's. Pittman, if he is able to play, will be playing the final
game of his college career along with Burns, Yarborough, “Six” Johnston, Young Lee, Verble, and McClung.

Four Students Lead In Steel Creek Program (Continued from Page 3)
The UN is beginning a “High Y” in Cornelius in the near future, and on the twenty-fourth of this month
a deputation is starting a Bible Class in the Colored Baptist Church.

Davidson Magazine Publishes Article Edited By Davidson Alumnus (Continued from Page 3)
was favored by the Republicans in their community. Replies covered all 48 states, and also Alaska, Puerto Rico, Hawaii, the
Philippines, and the District of Columbia. Don Warton who wrote this article graduated from Davidson in 1927, having edited the
prize-winning annual of that year. Last year, he edited the “Roosevelt Omnibus.” He now writes for national magazines.

Campus All-Star Athlete Chosen As Season Closes (Continued from page 4)
class contests, first team: Center—Hancock (Junior), Forwards—Tice (Freshman) and Bill Bell (Senior), Guards—Woodward (Junior) and Bennett (Senior). Second team: Center—Jack
Lee (Freshman), Forwards—Johnston (Freshman) and Gilks (Sophomore), Guards—Yates Faison (Sophomore) and Armstrong (Junior). Honorable mention goes to Brent Green (Sophomore),
White (Freshman), Mokey Faison (Junior), and Bob Lindsay (Senior).

Frosh Gridders Beat Wofford By 32-7 Score (Continued from Page 4)
deserves praise for the alert and aggressive football played. McClelland, Edwards, Benfield, Hicks, Ellis, and Captain Abel were active in
the line. Hand, Rudisill, and Hunt did consistent work in the backfield for the yearlings. Now that the season is
over for the Kittens, their next thoughts along football lines will probably be in expectation of making the varsity next
year. Coach Newton stated that several of this year’s frosh stars should replace varsity men lost through graduation.

’Cats To Meet Panthers Soon (Continued from page 4)
position; Charlie Bixler is looking good at his right wing position in the forward line. At center half, Jim Cothran
has been consistently good behind the forwards. Ken Scott is the stalwart in defending the Wildcat goal area in his
position at fullback. On Thursday, December fifth, the ’Cats journey to Durham to meet the Blue Devils. The return contest
with the Devils will be played here on December tenth. The Clemson Tigers meet the Wildcats here December fourteenth.

Sport Staccato (Continued from page 4)
brief note to “Cap’n” Jackins, head coach, which reads as follows: “Capt.—although I have fought hard and put out and
tried my best this year, you would not let me go to Duke. I will try harder next year and
try to make the team. So please don’t turn me down. Maybe I was not good enough to go.” Walter
S. Mott “Do not get sore at me for writing this, please.”

Nineteen colleges and universities are giving prizes to those seniors who acquire the most interesting library during their college years.
Yale and Harvard students will meet in annual “intellectual” contests for a prize of $5,000 awarded in the will of
the late Mrs. Elizabeth Putnam.

Need a Change of Diet? Try Our TURKEY DINNER THANKSGIVING SPECIAL LITTLE PEP Davidson, N.C.

The aromatic Turkish tobaccos used in Chesterfield give them a more pleasing aroma and taste... Every year we import thousands
of pounds from Turkey and Greece. The import duty alone is 35 cents a pound—but Turkish tobacco is necessary to
make a good cigarette. The right amount of Turkish tobacco, blended with our mild, ripe home-grown tobaccos helps to give
Chesterfields more aroma, helps to give them a more pleasing taste.
