THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 6, 1935

BEAT DUKE!

Sports Afield

BEAT DUKE!

By HARRY KUYKENDALL

The first team has had its chance Saturday and it has lived up to its fighting reputation. For even tho’ it fought against odds, even tho’ it appeared to be defeated from the start—until the last minute, those eleven men fought so hard that last minute that defeated Ohio State University—reputed the strongest team in the country. The second team, hence, must prove itself a brother in spirit to the first. It must fight the last three days on to very did, it must stem the attack of far heavier and a more experienced eleven as its great brother has done. The spirit shall rule; the fighting Wildcats will prove themselves brothers in spirit to the ‘Fighting Irish.’ We CAN and must beat Duke. Not just eleven men but everybody.

Tate, Chairman of the Soph. Class Executive Committee at Carolina, expresses what we believe to be Carolina's sentiments on this game, for he says “if Davidson went in there thinking they had a chance, they could beat Duke.” It’s up to us to think so. WE ARE GOING TO WIN, 'Cats.

A friend of mine who played for W. & L. has expressed himself as follows: “Is it necessary to boost Davidson so much? ...”

(Continued on Page 4)

POWERFUL V.P.I. KITTENS BEAT DAVIDSON

Weadle and Miller Score for Gobblers on Smashes Through Kitten Line

AERIAL PLAYS PREVAIL

Iverson, Brown, Hand, and Abell Star for Davidson

Weadle’s kick-off was returned to the 7-yard line. The Kittens fought hard and around the line, but against the power of the V. P. I. eleven. Staire kicked to the V. P. I. in their own territory where Davidson held them until the half. Iverson played brilliant ball in the line, getting almost every tackle. At the beginning of the second half, the Kittens made their attempt when “Boose” Brown caught it for a first down. Brown took the ball on V. P. I.’s 10-yard line, making a second down, but here the Kittens were penalized fifteen yards. The Gobblers took the ball and kicked out to the Kittens on their twenty-eight-yard line. The fighting Kittens made another long run with Brown making another long run bringing the ball up to the Gobbler’s forty-three. Brown took the ball and threw a long pass to Hand, who caught it for a thirty-yard gain, placing the ball on the Gobbler’s 10-yard line. Brown then tried two passes to Hand, but both failed. After futile tries through the Gobblers, with the support of Iverson, the Gobblers brought the ball up to their forty-yard line and punted to Hand who was to place the ball on the forty-seven. Brown tried two passes, the second one of which was intercepted by Miller, thus ending the game for the Kittens. Iverson stepped in on the first play and set Miller back for a five-yard loss. Then Macinney drove down to the goal, where he got a first down. From there, Weadle and Miller squirmed through to score.

(Continued on Page 6)

THE STUDENT STORE

“Right this way gang.” Here’s your chance to win a couple of free admissions to Davidson’s one and only Theater. It’s simple and easy, requiring only a little time and skill in predicting Big Five football games. Each week the SPORTS department of THE DAVIDSONIAN will print a ballot similar to the one at the bottom of this particular article, containing the games scheduled for the weekend after the appearance of this paper each Wednesday. The winner, the prize going to the one picking the closest scores.

With the football season nearing its close, the Wildcat basketball players turned out for their first practice Monday night under Head Coach Flake “Red” Laird. While the basketball players on the football team will be unable to practice until the grid season is over, the other candidates will be holding regular workouts every night. Four regulars from last year’s squad have graduated and will be missed. These are Ex-Captain Jim Morgan,Charlie] Those interested must pick the scores and print them in pen, pencil, or type them in the blanks beside each team. Take for example Davidson 13, Duke 12. Only one blank can be handed in per person and it must be in the hands of the Sports Editor by 2 p.m. each Friday. For your convenience, you may duplicate the blank on your own paper. The two persons coming nearest the real outcome of the games will be given a pass each. In case of ties, the scores will indicate the real winners. Here they are:

DAVIDSON "Ace" PARKER - Duke
PAUL PITTMAN - DAVIDSON
CO-CAPT. CATHEY - DAVIDSON
CO-CAPT. WINDHAM - DAVIDSON

VARSITY LETTER MEN CALLED FOR PRACTICE

The 1935 Kitten team, led by Jim Morgan and Charlie Harris, had a very successful season, winning thirteen and losing ten. The 'Cats finished their last conference game of the season. Coming up from the 1935 Kitten team are Wade Barrow, Harris, Lawrence Reid, and Dan Iverson. Last year's varsity team, led by Jim Morgan and Charlie Harris, had a very successful season, winning thirteen and losing ten. Most of these played a large part of the season and have proved their mettle under fire. Five lettermen are returning: Fred Cathey, Ken Knorr, Maurice Peabody, Bill Quick, and Coley Windham. Bill Kiesewetter, Jimmy Reinhardt, and Bill Yelverton are also expected to contribute significantly.

HOME COMING? ALTOGETHER?

For a great many folk—among them alumni, faculty, and friends—it won't be an altogether thorough homecoming unless it includes a visit to Hotel Charlotte. A meal in The Tavern, maybe; or a dance at dinner-time in the Main Dining Room; or perhaps just a visit with a friend in the Lobby—but the point is that it’s a sort of incomplete “homecoming” unless Hotel Charlotte’s somewhere in the picture. We'd like Hotel Charlotte to be deemed important to them by Davidsonians and their friends—for Davidsonians and their friends are important to us!

HOTEL CHARLOTTE

STATE CHAMPIONS TO CHEER 'CATS

The first Wildcat State Champion Eleven will witness the Duke game Saturday. The members of the victorious 1910 football team are coming here Saturday for the Davidson-Duke game to celebrate the twenty-fifth anniversary of their winning the state championship. All of the living members of the team, the coach, and the manager have been invited.

DAVIDSON PLAYS DUKE IN ANNUAL GRIDIRON CLASH

Twice-beaten Blue Devils to seek revenge against Fighting Wildcats. Parker leads Devils. Paul Pittman to bear brunt of Wildcat offense. Davidson's Homecoming game will be played against Duke University on Richardson Field Saturday, November 9. The meeting will bring a capacity crowd of Davidson alumni and people interested in seeing what has promise of being a hard-fought battle. The Blue Devils tackled, blocked, and ran their way to a victory last week over Tennessee. Their spirits are high, and once more the team is working with coordination and force. However, the Wildcats have had two weeks of preparation and rest due to the open date last Saturday, and the Durham club will face tough opposition. After the pep meeting planned for Friday night and the Homecoming activities on the next day, Davidson students and alumni will be ready to witness plenty of fireworks from the Red and Black team, whether they win or lose. Wildcat Spirit will be at its best as the two teams hold their fourteenth encounter. Although Duke will be looking ahead to the important North Carolina game, they will not neglect Davidson. A scrappy prospect is indicated by the fact that both teams were victorious over South Carolina and Davidson held North Carolina’s unbeaten team to a 14-0 win. Newspaper reports give the Tar Heels the edge over Duke, and Carolina did not find Davidson a cinch. Sports editors are prophesying that the annual clash will find the Devils playing fierce opponents. In the Citadel game, the Wildcats looked strong at times but then lost opportunities on fumbles. The work this week has been concentrated on correcting the weaknesses evidenced against the Bulldogs. Following the light practices last week, when new plays were tried, there have been scrimmages Monday and Tuesday. Aerial attack has received attention, and the team has worked on reducing penalties. Fortunately, injuries will not hinder the game.

Also, complete line of the new midnight blue double-breasted tuxedo $27.50. Dress shoes, $7.50.

TATE-BROWN COMPANY
College Shop—Third Floor
Smart Dress Accessories