THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 20, 1935

HONOR ROLL
Jack Lee, Frank Parker, and Willie Vause Chosen as Volleyball Stars by Bob Lindsay Sports Afield

HONOR ROLL
Jim Johnston and Ed Armfield Picked as Varsity Stars by Bud Okey

By HARRY KUYKENDALL

Another Southern Conference team is downed as newspaper headlines proclaim “CATS MAKE IT FIVE IN ROW OVER V. M. I.” It's the same old story for every year that little bunch of fighting scrappers has been recognized as being formidable on the gridiron and rewarded with membership in the Southern Conference. To Wildcat supporters, the above headlines signify hope that some day these fighting ‘Cats will be rewarded likewise with such a membership. That day may roll around pretty soon as conference officials will meet next month to decide who the lucky schools will be; if any. Davidson certainly deserves to be included. We believe it will.

That staunch supporter and aide of “Man Upset,” “Mr. Weatherman,” even put Athletic Al to shame Saturday by his visit to Durham and rendered the Heel’s most potent weapon, the pass, useless. Mr. Weatherman failed to impress the “Ole Cats” with his disagreeable nature and the local boys came through in expected form in spite of mud which rendered standing almost impossible.

Fields Young gave the first indication of the alertness which characterized the entire team when he recovered the first of the eleven fumbles two minutes after the opening kickoff. Fields, playing at Left End, has been a leading threat particularly in the last two games, snagging a pass for 40 yards in the Duke game and paving the way for our first touchdown in the muddy classic with the “Kadets.”

Davidson’s Paul Pittman, alias “Playful Paul,” cavorted and frolicked as usual but the first half was particularly illuminated by fireworks in the form of “Teeny” Lafferty who intermittently sparkled in the ‘Cats backfield for runs of 37, 27, and 18 yards. However, at the half “Teeny” was afflicted with a bad case of what was thought to be appendicitis and so he was removed to a hospital, where a doctor announced in all gravity that his trouble was merely an old-fashioned case of “tummy ache.”

Jim Johnston, “double trouble” to any linesman who expects an easy time at his expense, filled to overflowing the position left by Dick Johnston, regular guard who was injured and could not make the trip. Teammates in explaining how Jim takes care of his job, say that he differs from Dick in that he varies his line charging tactics and surprises his opposition while Dick, with 185 pounds, just crashes through.

According to Bailey Williams, who, by the way, has improved as much if not more than any linesman on the team this year, states that Ed Armfield made his third touchdown Saturday.

Mud slinging, while not in vogue during the V. M. I. game in spite of its bountiful presence, has become the most important occupation of A. W. Stamey, Sports Editor of the Durham Sun. Mr. Stamey, prior to the Duke-Davidson game, published the following statement in his column: “Jake Wade of the Charlotte Observer recalls that the Wildcats complained of rough treatment at the Blue Devil's hands two years ago and intimates that next Saturday’s contest may be hard on the Dukes. This column recalls no such complaints, but it does recall that prior to the 1933 game word passed around that the Wildcats were after one of the (Continued on Page 6)

Knorr, Quick, Peabody, and Cathey Return to Form Nucleus of 1935-36 Team

TRANSFERS LOOK GOOD

Season Looks Promising Despite Loss of Letterman

In the seasons of sports, the memories of the year's excitements of football go down in sportive history while the hopes of basketball arise to take the stand. In Davidson, the ‘Cat Basketeers have started the early grind of practice in preparation for the coming schedule. The Cagers started their practices last week, practicing three times a week at night in the gymnasium. The practices have only been attended by those men who are not playing football and are going out for basketball. Of the sixteen men that have been coming out, Coach Laird has only been working them on individual practice such as passing, shifting, dribbling, and shooting. No detailed practice has been done as yet but within the next two weeks regular work will begin.

The Wildcats will start their season this year with the loss of Morgan, Ross, Yelverton, Harris, and Windham who were the holdup for the Cagers last year. Windham Peabody is the only letterman of last year’s squad who is still at school but will not be out for practice due to an injury during football. However, there are several men from the squad of last year and also three transfers who have shown up very well so far in practice. The early practices have not been of any sort that would determine as to who would be stars of this season but it might be noted that Armstrong, a transfer from Belmont Abbey College, has been doing very well so far in practice. Also, Yearwood, another transfer, has been doing well and Coach Laird is working on him to take over the center position. Hancock has also been doing very well in practice so far.

The frosh team of last fall came out with a very good season bringing many good players up to the varsity squad this year. The men are Barrow, Rhinehart, Kline, Iverson, Reed, and of these Barrow and Reed have been the most outstanding. The Cagers from last year’s squad who are returning are Knorr, Quick, Peabody, and Cathey. These men all did good work last season and are expected to get the first string call this year along with Morris Freeman and Bailey Williams who were not out for the squad last year but were outstanding ball players in prep-school and will be running this year.

As the team this year takes its stand, despite the many losses from last year, Manager Morrow says, “We have a very hard schedule and have lost many good players but with the new material, if we can get started right, we will have as good or better team than that of last year.”

Duke Victory Upsets Dopesters’ Predictions

In spite of the various and sundry prognostications of sports enthusiasts last week, not a one picked Carolina to suffer a defeat at the hands of Duke and as a result Felix almost decided to take the tickets and enjoy the show himself but (confidentially) the fear of being mobbed decided things otherwise and so tickets this week go to O. M. Covington and G. J. Jordon. Those interested in the contest and wishing to win tickets to the show, must pick the scores and print them in the blanks beside each team. Take for example Davidson 14, Wake Forest 0. Only one blank can be handed in per person and this must be in the hands of the sports editor by 2 P. M. Friday. Although the blank is printed below for your convenience, you may duplicate on your own paper. The two persons coming nearest to (Continued on Page 6)

CAT BASKETEERS BEGIN DRILL FOR THIS SEASON

Wildcat Matmen Begin Pre-Seasonal Practice

The Davidson College wrestling team, state champions last year, have begun action toward the leadership of Coach ‘Doc’ Unger and Captain LeRoy Blackwelder. Although no official registration has been made, most of the candidates trying out are as follows: LeRoy Blackwelder, Bob Blue, John Allen, M. B. Crisp, D. A. Davis, F. Dade, Joe Gamble, Jim Hodgin, C. A. Cooper, Elmore Holt, J. B. Johnston, Joe Kellam, Douglas Neal, Frank Owens, and C. W. Parder. The team will be weakened by the loss of Captain Charles Fort, Lawrence Quarterman, Luther Shiery, and Knos Thompson from last year’s team. Last year the Wildcat Grapplers won the state championship by virtue of wins over State, Carolina, and Duke. They were defeated only by V. P. I. Polk Moffet has not yet come out for the team. His position will probably be filled by Bob Blue. Blue has been wrestling for a number of years and is expected to fill the position capably.

SENIOR WINNING FORM

Thursday Sees Sophs and Juniors Lose One Game Each; Freshmen Trail

With an excellent chance of repeating last year’s performance by winning inter-class volleyball, the class of '36 emerged with a clean slate from the games played Thursday, November 14. The junior and sophomore teams each lost one game, while the freshmen brought up the rear by losing both games.

The most interesting game of the afternoon proved to be the one between the sophs and seniors. Playing two out of three games, each team won one game out of the first two. The players were very evenly matched, with “The Goon” Vause and Bill Kiesewetter starring for the lower class and F. Parker and M. J. Barnett starring for the pre-centennials. The third game commenced as if it were going to be a fight to the finish, but when the score reached five all, the seniors displayed excellent teamwork to overwhelm their opponents. The feature of the game was “The Goon's” smashing, whichThe seniors did not get under control until the third game. The scores of the three games were 5-21, 21-16, 21-9. The seniors easily defeated the freshmen in two games, with scores of 21-6, and 21-4. The senior captain, Barnett, sent in a new team for the second game, but, despite this, the red-caps had no chance during the entire match. The freshman team gave the centennials a little more competition, winning the first of the three games. In the second game, however, the juniors found their stride and experienced little difficulty in taking the match. The scores of the games were as follows: 16-21, 21-17, 21-17. The members of the class of '37 proved to be no match for the sophomore team, bowing to them to the tune of 21-1, 21-2.

(Continued on Page 6)

DUKE CRUSHES CAROLINA 25-0 BEFORE 46,880

Parker, Alexander, Ward, Hackney, West and Johnston Star For Devils

DRIZZLE SLOWS GAME

Jackson and Daniels Lead Carolina’s Futile Attack

By YATES FAISON

A wonderful Duke team rose to supreme heights Saturday in its own stadium before 46,880 enthusiastic fans, who braved the biting cold and a drizzling rain to see Wallace Wade's Blue Devils overwhelm Carolina’s “dream team”, 25-0. The gigantic crowd, largest in southern football history, jammed into every available space to witness sixty minutes of one of the most thrilling games ever to be played in the Old North State. While cheering a marvelously superior Duke eleven to a well-earned victory, the crowd seemed to echo Carolina's realization of broken dreams. Numbed by their disappointment, Carolina partisans came forward to acknowledge Duke's brilliancy and superiority.

Led by their great Ace Parker, Duke took command of the game at the opening kick-off, and it never relinquished this commanding position until the final whistle. Staying ever alert on the soggy, slick gridiron, the Blue Devils turned Carolina’s famed passing attack into a boomerang, and they converted these interceptions into scoring opportunities. Ace Parker overshadowed every other player on the field, and his magnificent kicking kept the Tar Heels deep in their own territory throughout most of the game. Ably seconding Parker, Alexander and Ward contributed long touchdown jaunts, Alexander intercepting a pass on his own 5-yard line and racing 95 yards for a score, while Ward swept around end for 47 yards and another touchdown. Alexander scored Duke's second touchdown in the third quarter on a plunge from the 1-yard line, and Parker crashed over guard and romped 30 yards for the final score in the final minute of play.

Don Jackson provided Carolina’s longest run in the second quarter when he raced from his goal-line on a fake punt and dodged through a broken field for 52 yards before being pulled down from behind. His passing was sadly handicapped by the wet pigskin, and he had trouble all afternoon in tossing his passes to the few receivers open. Montgomery, with the ball on his own 3, early in the first quarter, called one of the smartest plays of the game. Afraid of having Duke block a kick behind the goal, he called for Jackson to pass instead. From a kick formation, Jackson heaved the ball 55 yards to Hackney, Duke's safety man, who was tackled on the 50. Parker and Hackney played together for the first time this season, and they worked together nicely in the new plays that Wallace Wade added to give deception to his already powerful system. Other Duke stars included Alexander, Ward, West, Hennemier, and Captain Jim Johnston. Jackson, Buck, Snyder, Daniels, Trimpey, and Webb shone for the Heels. In Carolina's scoring threat, early in the game, Babe Daniels’ try for a field goal from Duke’s 14 was short by only a few feet.

WILDCATS TIE POINTERS IN FIRST SOCCER CLASH

Frat’s Sport Program Gains New Popularity

In the past few years the inter-fraternity sports program at Davidson has become more extensive and more popular than ever before. It has been encouraged, and it has developed so greatly that it is now ranked along with the programs of this kind of the foremost colleges. Golf, horseshoes and track have been added to the list of inter-fraternity sports, which already included football, baseball, volleyball and basketball. Because of this addition all of the fraternities have elected managers to direct their programs. These men will try to get as many as possible to participate and will appoint separate captains for each of the different events.

The managers elected by the fraternities are: Beta Theta Pi, G. T. Tipton; Pi Kappa Alpha, Bob Anders; Kappa Alpha, Joe Johnson; Sigma Alpha Epsilon, Yates Faison; Kappa Sigma, Charlie Thompson; Pi Kappa Phi, Tom Cameron; Phi Gamma Delta, Bob Gregory; Phi Delta Theta, John Partridge, and Sigma Phi Epsilon, Martin Barnett.

WILDKITTENS TO MEET TERRIERS

Freshman Gridsters Will Strive to Save their Season from Disaster

With a record of only one victory out of rough treatment at the Blue Devils’ hands, the Davidson freshmen will be out to improve their average in their clash with the Wofford freshmen on Richardson Field, Friday, November 22, with the more distinct goal of avenging that last 33-0 licking handed them by the Imps of Duke University. The season started out favorably for the Kittens when they outfought the boys from Darlington, 6-0. The next game ended in disaster so far as the frosh were concerned: the State freshmen came out on the long end of a 65-0 score. In the V. P. I. game here, the Wildkittens were able to put up a better fight, with the result that their loss was by only 13-0. But the Duke first-year men managed to run wild at the expense of the Davidson frosh, who lost this time by 33-0. And yet the season so far does not seem to be such a failure as the won-and-lost record would indicate. The trouble does not seem to be with the individual players; rather the difficulty lies in the fact that they have not had enough experience playing together. Gasteiger, Abell, and Iverson showed up extremely well in the line throughout the entire schedule, while Brown, in the backfield, has been gaining consistently.

There seems to be no reason to believe that this year’s freshman team is inferior to frosh aggregations of past years. In fact, the Kittens of last year won not a single game, being able to tie only one; and yet several sophomores who began their Davidson athletic careers on that team are now varsity men for the Wildcats. Isn’t it probable that some of this year’s crop of new men will develop into stars by next football season?

Overcash’s Barber Shop

Individual Attention From Two Experienced Barbers

Davidson, N. C.

Open Twenty-four Hours a Day Except Sunday

Athletic Extra Photographs

Individual Pictures Made Up In Any Style Desired For All Sports

REASONABLE PRICES

See MAL GRIMES, Jr., 9 Georgia

See Pictures

It’s Grand to Own a “LANCER”

A swell coat ... a big, full double-breasted raglan ... extravagant sweep of skirt ... style-correct collar and lapels ... and all the other exacting details that complete a grand job. “Lancer” ... another achievement of Under-Grad Clothes!

$25 - $27.50

Tate-Brown Co.

College Shop Third Floor