GLASS TO LEAD Y. M. C. A. DURING THE NEXT YEAR

LAMONT BROWN IS NEW EDITOR OF SCHOOL PAPER

Vol. XXII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., MARCH 27, 1935 No. 22

GLASS AND DIXON ARE CHOSEN TO BE Y.M.C.A. OFFICERS

Wade Boggs Wins Office Of Second Vice-President On Third Ballot

FIRST BALLOTING CLOSE

Bob Lindsay And Kenneth Scott Eliminated In Finals

After a close race in the balloting last week, Harvey Glass of Richmond was elected president of the Y. M. C. A. for next year. Walter Dickson of Anderson, S. C., and Wade Boggs of Shreveport, La., were elected first and second vice-presidents, respectively. Glass was elected on the second ballot, Dickson on the third, and Boggs on the fourth.

Nominations by the committee for president were Harvey Glass, Bob Lindsay, John McMullen, and Archie Shuford. For vice-president, Wade Boggs, Frank Brown, Walter Dickson, Roger Melton, Sandy Moffett, and Kenneth Scott were nominated. John Winn was nominated from the floor.

In the presidential race, Glass and Lindsay reached the second ballot, separated from each other by a very narrow margin of votes. Glass won in the second ballot by a close count. Boggs, Dickson, and Scott reached the second voting in the vice-presidential contest. Dickson was elected on the third ballot and Boggs on the fourth, again by close counts.

Glass succeeds Walter Sprunt as Y. M. C. A. president. Dickson and Boggs follow Sid Marsh and Treadway Purnell at the vice-presidency. The new officers will assume their duties sometime in the middle of April.

ODK Convention Is Held At Cincinnati

Skip Brown And F. L. Jackson Represent Davidson At Convention

The Delta Circle of Omicron Delta Kappa, national leadership fraternity, was represented at the eleventh biennial convention by Gordon “Skip” Brown and Mr. F. L. Jackson, treasurer of Davidson College, during the past week at the University of Cincinnati, Cincinnati, Ohio. Mr. Jackson, member of the General Council, which is composed of seven members, was appointed to serve on the Committee on Credentials and Reports of National Officers. “Skip” Brown received a position on the Laws and Policy Committee. Mr. Jackson was selected as a Council member at the O. D. K. conclave held at Duke University in 1933.

The delegates representing the Davidson circle left on Wednesday and arrived in Cincinnati in time for the initial session of the convention on Thursday morning. The opening of the conclave began with the addresses of several distinguished university speakers. A convention smoker followed. These functions were open to a group of invited guests and members of Omicron Delta Kappa.

The first business session of the convention began Friday and all important matters were dealt with at this time. The fraternity held its banquet that afternoon and a formal ball was given at the Netherland Plaza Hotel. The Davidson student delegate, as you would expect, participated in a traditional Davidsonian fashion. Modesty prevents his admitting the fact, but this astounding fact can be verified by others in attendance from Davidson.

The final business session of the convention opened Saturday morning and it preceded the election and installation of new officers for the General Council. The Davidson representatives stated that they were impressed with the various reports made on the national activity of the fraternity. Omicron Delta Kappa has been successfully expanding.

R. O.T.C. Unit Asks For Care Of Uniforms

At the beginning of the school year the ROTC battalion was equipped with serge uniforms, consisting of 18 doz. blouses with blue lapels and trousers. Due to the constant increase of commodity and manufacturing costs, and to reduced appropriations, the necessity for care of uniforms was never more apparent than at the present time. All are urged to exercise diligence in reducing to a minimum the wear and tear which the uniforms must undergo.

Those students residing out of town may have to wear their uniforms after drill periods, but men living on the campus should change their uniforms for civilian clothes before engaging in athletic games and labor. The uniform should be worn only on drill days. Mixed uniform, that is, part issued uniform and part civilian clothes, is never to be worn. When the uniform is worn it should be complete, with regulation trousers, shirt, and tie.

MASQUERS GIVE THREE-ACT PLAY

Unusually Large Audience Attends Red And Black Masquers’ Production

The Red and Black Masquers presented a three-act mystery melodrama, entitled Three Taps at Twelve, Friday evening, March 22. An unusually large crowd braved the inclement weather to witness the second presentation of the year by the Red and Black Masquers at Chambers Auditorium.

The cast of the play is as follows: The Ingenue—Miss Lucy Currie; The Juvenile Lead—Fields Horine; The Dope Addict—Treadway Purnell; The Uncle—Richard Hillier; Mrs. Gage—Miss Letitia Currie; Her Husband—Joe Dees; “Cattish”—A. C. Cline; Mrs. Baker—Miss Steele; and Dr. Hull—P. Y. Harlan. Edward Donnigan was in charge of the direction of the play. Professor E. J. Erwin, Bill Pierce, Dunlap Covington, and Dave Herring were in charge of the renovation of scenery.

The play was a mystery in which Richard Hillier, acting as Jamieson Edwards, the unscrupulous old invalid, invites a number of people whom he has tricked out of their money to his home for supper. These people, besides hating Edwards, dislike each other. The curtain opens on a dark room where they are all playing a parlor game, murder. They soon tire of this and stop. Edwards tells them that he has drawn up his will and out of the five guests present, he is going to leave four of them four-fifths of his will, while the other one-fifth will go to his nephew. The guests ask which of them will not receive an inheritance. Edwards replies that they will play the game of murder again and this time the victim will not get up; he will be dead. Weapons from all countries are on the walls. Finally, to get their money back, they agree to the old man’s cruel demand. The lights go out. A horrible scream pierces the air and at the same instant there is a pounding on the window from outside. The lights come on. Instead of one of the guests, Jamieson Edwards lies dead. His nephew arrives from college and immediately suspects that the guests killed his uncle for revenge. The guests claim that it is suicide. After a series of thrilling events, it was discovered that Harmon Gage had poisoned Jamieson Edwards with his fountain pen which he had filled with a strong poison and (Continued on Page 6, Col. 1)

French Circle Begins Rehearsals For Play

Le Cercle Francais has begun practice on the play which they are to present at Converse College sometime during the holidays. The name of the play is Le Medecin Malgre Lui, and is entirely in French. The French club at Converse is also rehearsing a play which they will present on this campus a few days after Davidson’s representatives visit them. (Continued on Page 6, Col. 2)

CHINA IS TOPIC OF LECTURE BY NOTED SPEAKER

Professor Wannemaker Lectures On Contemporary And Ancient China

LARGE CROWD ATTENDS

Uses Slides To Illustrate Work At Lingnan University

The history of ancient China and the progress of modern China were vividly brought to the audience Monday evening by Professor Olin D. Wannemaker, lecturing here on “Old and New China.” Professor Wannemaker's association with the east and the problems which it faces in relation to the outside world were related by Dr. E. F. Shewmake, chairman of the Faculty Committee on Lectures, who introduced the noted lecturer. Very briefly Dr. Shewmake explained the connections of Professor Wannemaker in China, especially as secretary of the board of Lingnan University, around which much of his lecture centered, and then presented the lecturer to his audience.

Beginning his address, Professor Wannemaker reviewed the history of China from the first settlement by the sailors of Prince Henry of Portugal in the sixteenth century, who landed near Canton, through the series of foreign exploitations as other western nations came in (Continued on Page 6, Col. 1)

Alumni Catalog To Be Published

Trustees Of Davidson College Vote To Publish Alumni Catalogue In 1937

The trustees of Davidson College, at their meeting last February, voted to publish an Alumni Catalogue. This catalogue will appear in 1937, the Centennial year of Davidson College. It will include the names, addresses, occupation, class, and other personal data of the alumni from the class of 1924 until the class of 1937. The alumni will be classified according to their class, alphabetical order, and geographical distribution.

The work is under the direction of Grier Martin, alumni secretary. He is to begin work now in order to have the catalogue ready by the Centennial year. Two other editions of these catalogues have appeared before. One appeared in 1891, which was the Semi-Centennial year, and another in 1924.

DEBATING TEAM VICTORIOUS ON WESTERN TOUR

Port And Selango Meet Sewanee, Centre And Kentucky Debating Teams

SUPPORT AFFIRMATIVE

Boggs And Smith Victorious In Debate Friday

After an absence of about ten days, the affirmative combination of Tyler Port and James Selango returned to the campus last Friday afternoon with a multitude of new laurels for the varsity debating team's record this year. Port and Selango, both debating for their first year in varsity circles, made the western trip and gained three victories over their opponents and sustained no defeats. Their tour followed the successful southern trip made previously by Harold Sugg and Albert Stutts.

All three of the debates were won by judges’ decisions, unanimously in favor of the Davidson team. Their first victory was over the University of the South at Sewanee, Tenn., on Friday evening, March 15. The team next journeyed to Danville, Ky., where they engaged Centre College on the evening of March 19 in a formal debate before a large audience including faculty and students there. The Davidson debaters again won by decision of the judges.

On the following day Port and Selango went to Lexington, Ky., and engaged the team of the University of Kentucky before another audience composed of the students in the debating classes at the university. Following the debate, an open forum discussion was (Continued on Page 6, Col. 5)

Ministerial Group Hears Cunningham

Seminary Work And College Life Subject Of Talk Given By School Head Dr. JohnR. Cunningham, president of the Louisville Presbyterian Seminary, spoke to the Ministerial Band at the social center last Sunday afternoon at 1:30 o'clock. His general topic for discussion was the aspect of the ministerial student on the Davidson campus, and seminary work after graduation from college. He said that the ministerial students should more or less make good examples of themselves in their actions and their language upon the campus, as all Christian (Continued on Page 6, Col. 4)

At Finish Of

Amid the raucous blasts of the bus horn and the strains of “Carry Me Back to Old Virginny,” the glee club and orchestra rolled into Davidson Saturday night, after a four-day trip through Virginia. The members were in an exuberant mood, and why shouldn’t they be? It isn’t every week one gets to visit three women’s colleges. The glee club bus, Macduff at the helm, departed from the campus Wednesday afternoon for Greensboro Women’s College, where the inmates waited at their windows with hopeful expectancy. On arriving, the clever little game of “blind dating” was indulged in, and dinner was served. After the concert itself, the bus left the campus amid the weeping of maidens and the gnashing teeth of deans. The night was spent at the Hotel Zinzendorf at Winston-Salem. ‘Twas there, at two in the morning, that Mills Taylor, Dick Vowles and Dunnie Covington conceived the brilliant idea of serenading. The soothing strains of “Rock A-Bye Baby in the Tree Top” pervaded the hotel atmosphere, and it was reported that the hotel manager was entranced. At least, he came up to say so. Roommates Robinson, King, Stewart and Chandler, immediately below, were also highly pleased.

And then to Staunton, home of the Mary Baldwin damsels. In this village, a good part of the group was put up at the military academy to show the folks real discipline. Harris Bradley and Joy Martin slept in Woodrow Wilson’s old house, right over the room where the blessed event took place. In the evening, after a formal dinner, the glee club and orchestra presented a concert at Harrisonburg Teachers’ College. That night, Mattocks, Nash and Martin were ousted from the steps by an irate warden, and the same gripe started to drag our director off the campus for escorting his wife past the bus. Hassell walked away with one of the prizes, while that lucky Cunningham boy had a date with the dean’s daughter and her car. Moreland Cunningham says, “I just love deans, especially if they have daughters and automobiles.” Sidelight: Buddy Robinson and “Sprinkle.” Then Macduff (not the band trip Macduff) escorted the party back to the military academy for a good night's sleep. The bus was minus a radiator cap, due to some female souvenir hound. With the melodious notes of the bugle, the Davidson delegation awoke bright and early the next morning—at 6:30. They say Bob Leonard slept through all the bugle calls. If he did, he’s a genius. The academy furnished towels, but Ed Johnson and Cunningham smelled a rat somewhere. Sure enough, there was one at the bottom of the pile. After a formal dinner and concert at Mary Baldwin, the two organizations were entertained at a reception. Hervey Ross was seen with the daughter of a Puerto Rican millionaire, and Edwards wasn’t wasting any time either. Later that night, Buddy Robinson and “Chubby” King had a narrow escape from the cop while climbing around the Y. M. C. A. fire escape. They said they didn’t have a key.

BROWN IS ELECTED DAVIDSONIAN HEAD FOR COMING YEAR

Holidays Begin Mar. 28 And Are To End Apr. 3

The regular annual spring holidays of Davidson College will commence tomorrow, Thursday, March 28, at twelve-thirty o'clock and will continue until the morning of Wednesday, April 3. As usual, there will be no classes after dinner on Thursday. Classes will resume at eight-thirty o’clock on Wednesday morning. All cuts in classes on the two days preceding and the two days following the holidays will be doubled, unless the student signs a statement that he was on the campus at the time the cut was taken. The only official activity of the college during the vacation period will be the spring re-examinations which will be held on Friday, March 29, at two-thirty o'clock.

EX-GOVERNOR TO SPEAK HERE

Students To Have Half Holiday On Founder’s Day, Tuesday, April 9

“Davidson College, Its Past, Present, and Future,” will be the topic of former Governor Cameron Morrison, who will be the principal speaker at the second annual Founder’s Day exercises to be held here on April 9. The second annual Founder's Day will be held in connection with a meeting of the trustees of the Duke Endowment Fund which will meet here on the same day. William R. Perkins, of New York, a close friend of the late James B. Duke, donor of the Duke Endowment, will also make a talk and, after a luncheon for the trustees, a moving picture will be shown at the local theater, which will show the work of the Duke Endowment. The first Founder's Day was held last year, at which time Dr. Ben Geer, president of Furman University, made the principal address. It is hoped that the celebration of this day will become an annual custom on the campus. Plans are already under way to have a large celebration two years from now to mark the one hundredth year of the college's existence.

Both the varsity and freshman baseball teams will play on the afternoon of this day, but both the games are slated to be played off the campus, unless the schedules are changed later. In connection with the celebration of this day, many alumni chapters in different parts of the country will hold meetings and the college will send speakers to as many of these meetings as possible. From 6:15 to 6:30 a radio program will be broadcast over Station WBT to alumni and friends of the college everywhere. The students will receive a half holiday on this day, as there will be no classes held after the chapel exercises.

Alumni Journal Mailed To College Graduates

The first issue in Volume II of the Davidson Alumni Journal was put in the mails yesterday afternoon, according to Grier Martin, alumni secretary of the college. This issue, which has been cut down to about twenty pages, instead of the usual twenty-four, features articles on Founder's Day, and Commencement, and an editorial by Dr. W. L. Lingle, president of the college. On the cover is a three-color photograph of the college well. The alumni office sent out about five thousand copies of this issue to the alumni of Davidson. As usual, the journal is edited by Grier Martin, alumni secretary of Davidson College. Most of the important articles are also written by Mr. Martin.

The next morning Macduff escorted the groups homeward, stopping at the Lee Chapel and Natural Bridge. The man at the Lee Chapel accused our director of being a sophomore, tut, tut. At Natural Bridge, the old bus just couldn’t make the hill, so everybody had to bail out. The boys enjoyed selections on the tin whistle by Link, Scott, Storey, etc., also on the home stretch.

Lamont Brown Defeats Martin Barnett By Sixty Vote Margin For Editorship

VOTING IS VERY CLOSE

Paul Harlan Runs A Close Third In First Ballot

Lamont Brown, of Barium Springs, was elected editor of The Davidsonian in the second ballot of a student body election Saturday, defeating Martin Barnett, of Meridian, Miss., by a margin of 60 votes. Voting began Friday when the names of the managing editors for the past year were submitted to the student body by the retiring editor. They were Barnett, Brown, Paul Harlan, Tom Marchant and K. D. Weeks. John Walker, Harvey Glass, who was eligible for nomination, withdrew as a result of his recent election to the Y. M. C. A. presidency. On Friday all but Barnett and Brown were eliminated, Paul Harlan, of Jackson, Tenn., running a close third. Brown held a plurality of twenty votes on that ballot, and on the next day Brown carried the vote decisively.

Brown is a rising senior and hails from Barium Springs. He attended McCallie Military Academy, Chattanooga, Tenn., where he was a company captain and held several prominent positions on the prep school campus. Since entering Davidson, he has been active in all publication work, being on the editorial staff of The Davidsonian and Quips and Cranks, and on the business staff of that funny magazine of Yow! nomenclature. He is a member of the International Relations Club and last year was elected secretary-treasurer of his class. His social connections include Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity. He was a member of the Junior Dance Committee.

Barnett, from Meridian, Miss., has also been active on all three publication staffs and a managing editor of The Davidsonian, Quips and Cranks, and The Wildcat Handbook. He has consistently made the honor roll and holds a varsity letter in tennis.

Plans For Bowery Frolics Revealed

Jimmy Poyner And His Pawnbrokers To Supply Music For Bowery Ball

Further plans for the success of the approaching Bowery Ball, to be held April 13 as a feature of the three spring dances, were revealed today with the announcement by P. Mims Rogers, Pan-Hellenic Council president, that Jimmy Poyner and his Pawnbrokers will supply the music. Not only did Maestro Poyner promise the same fine music that he offered last Home-coming, but he plans to dress the orchestra in special costumes of Bowery nature for the occasion. Furthermore, he will offer as a particular attraction a torch singer from the State of Virginia. Further data concerning this young lady was not available as The Davidsonian went to press.

Geddie Monroe, to whom the Council relegated the job of decorating, after offering it to every other interior decorator within the vicinity, is reported to be losing sleep at night thinking up wild schemes for the dressing of the building. Prizes will be offered to the boy and girl wearing the most unusual and effective costumes. “I would like to make this confidential and unusual announcement,” whispered Rogers into the ear of the reporter. “These dances will be the cheapest and best that Davidson has had in a long time.” “Well, by jiminy and Leapin’ Lizards!” spake the reporter when he had been revived by bystanders, “that’s the first time I’ve heard that before.” It is reported that the contract has been signed.