THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 6, 1935

The Davidsonian
Founded by the Class of 1915

MEMBER
Associated Collegiate Press

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

Printed by the QUEEN CITY PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate year.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879.

ARTICLES FOR PUBLICATION must be in the hands of Managing Editors by 4:00 o'clock p.m., Monday. Letters to the Editor
are welcome, but all communications intended for publication must be signed.

K. D. WEEKS ... Editor
J. A.C. WADSWORTH ... Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
MARTIN C. BARNHILL ... Managing Editor
PAUL SHARMAN ... Managing Editor
TOM MARCHANT ... Managing Editor
JOHN WALKER ... Managing Editor
Harvey Grass ... Managing Editor
Lamont Brown ... Sports Editor
Edwin Bowers ... Exchange Editor
Carlyle Lewis ... Feature Editor
Scotty McLeod ... Feature Editor
G. L. GULLETTE ... Associate Editor
E. F. McPHAIL ... Associate Editor
Bob Rush ... Associate Editor
Jack Hellinger ... Editor
J. B. Gosten ... Asst. Business Mgr.
Van Cassels ... Asst. Business Mgr.
Tom Cross ... Asst. Business Mgr.
Samuel Mullins ... Asst. Business Mgr.
Harris Morrow ... Asst. Business Mgr.

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 6, 1935

I am for anything in this world that keeps the problem of finding a substitute for war in people’s minds.
—Ipa Tarbell.

Editor's Note: The subject matter of the following editorial deals with a topic which of late has been the cause
of much discussion among students and editors of college newspapers throughout the United States. The student world is becoming more
and more aroused to the importance of the question of World Peace.

WHAT DID IT GAIN FOR US?

Sixteen years ago we ended the bloodiest and most devastating war which has ever been fought. Throughout the world men
raised their joyful cries of thanks to Almighty God that four of the most destructive years in the history of
our times had ended! We fought this war and very hopefully called it the “war to end war.” What did
it gain for us? What were our achievements? None! The same jealousies, the old suspicions and hatreds were still apparent
and produced the lying and trickery of diplomats and the mad race for armaments which had caused previous wars. And
so the world with that unquenchable hope that lies at the heart of humanity turned desperately for a permanent basis
of peace.

We have seen these different steps advance. First, the League of Nations with its “loose alliance” which utterly fell short
to check aggression among nations, to arrest feverish nationalism in Europe, and to come to any general agreement of disarmament.
We have seen the World Court which dropped miserably in its undertakings of the adjudication of disputes between nations, and
to establish the principle of settlement of these disputes by law rather than by arms. We have seen the Pact
of Paris grow pale with its policies of formal outlawry of war. We have seen the Washington Naval Treaty, the
London Conference, and the Geneva Conference all weak in their attempts at disarmament. We have seen Japan repudiate the decisions
of the World Court and withdraw from the League of Nations because those decisions were not in accord with her
own national policies. We have seen Germany break off from the Disarmament Conference and abandon the League of Nations—an act
that made the very foundation of this world tremble with fear—and we shall see other catastrophes!

But we must not let these difficulties spell failure. We must not be pessimists. The obstacles which have appeared to
the practical working out of World Peace are but the challenges of our generation to struggle on toward the goal.
The idea of World Peace has already been blazoned on the banners of the nations. It must be ours, fellow
students, to inscribe it in the hearts of mankind. The ideal held up before us in the Kellogg Treaty, can
realize itself only as men learn to lay aside the selfishness and the suspicions of a narrow nationalism for a
good-will sincere enough, and a brotherhood broad enough to embrace the world. To this, religion inspires us and all the
events of modern life invite us. The progress of commerce and of communication is so binding the nations together as
to force us daily to see that the welfare of one nation is the welfare of all. The spread of
democracy is more and more teaching us that nations can exist only as they promote the happiness of all their
people. The leaders of our thinking are seeing to it that the world shall not quickly forget the sharp lesson
about the futility, the horror, and the waste of a war which the World War taught us and a deeper
understanding of the teachings of the Prince of Peace is entering into the hearts of men.

It is ours to promote these influences, to think peace, to talk peace, to embody the idea of peace and
good-will in all our dealings with our fellow-men; to put our influence behind every effort to enshrine these ideals in
treaties of national disarmaments and good-will. And whether it comes in this generation or the next, we shall look forward
with hope as we do our part toward bringing about a warless world.
—J. S.

THE NEED FOR AN ADEQUATE GYM

The ever-growing need of an adequate gymnasium and the facilities that go with it is illustrated time and again by
the desire of numerous students to give their bodies proper physical exercise but are unable to do it because of
the lack of equipment they have at their disposal. It has been almost twenty years since the new gym was
constructed and almost double that since the students were first able to use the old gym. Even at the present
there is never enough room to accommodate comfortably the crowds at the basketball games and wrestling matches. Many have to
stand, and others turn away, disgusted.

It is very gratifying to see the increased number of students who are using the old gym to condition their
bodies and allow their minds a period of relaxation from their daily work. But this addendum also brings with it
difficulties. To begin with, the gym is a very small one, and in the second place the equipment that it
now contains is not sufficient to support the number of students who wish to use it. There is only one
piece of each kind of equipment and one often has to stand in line well over half an hour to
wait his turn. This is especially true of the weights, whose ropes are broken half the time and can never
be used. During the gym classes and also during gymnastic competition, there is little chance of anyone utilizing his whole
time in exercise. Many are seen standing by the stove or sitting on the benches waiting their time.

Along with the other improvements taking place on the campus, it is not unreasonable to expect that some progress could
be made towards a new gym. For many years the students expected the money made from the Student Store would
be used in building a swimming pool. But when these profits were turned into a student loan fund, the students'
hope for a pool vanished. This is one feature that could be very wisely included in the building of a
new gym.

With the coming of spring and summer, most of the students will doubtless turn to the open for their exercise.
They will seek this new outlet partly because of their failure to find adequate and complete satisfaction with the gym
and its present meager facilities.

The exercise of all the muscles of the body in their due proportion is one great secret of health and
comfort as well as of strength and of full manly vigor.

EIGHT MEN ACCEPT PHYSICS FRAT. BIDS

It has just recently been made known that the following men have accepted bids to Sigma Pi Sigma, National Physics
Fraternity, which were issued about two weeks ago: J. G. Anderson, M. J. Barnett, W. A. Douglas, C. A. Harper,
D. P. Johnson, W. B. Swope, K. D. Weeks, L. J. Blackwelder, Jr. A. A. Kuhn, member of the fraternity,
has just recently written an essay on the construction and uses of Aircraft instruments. Sigma Pi Sigma and Gamma Sigma
Epsilon plan to make a trip to Queens Chicora College sometime during the spring and present a program, but the
plans for this trip are indefinite as yet.

ROOSEVELT CABINET TO TAKE PART IN PROGRAM

The official family of the President of the United States will take part as a group in a radio broadcast
for the first time in the nation’s history when every member of President Roosevelt’s cabinet joins with Vice-President John N.
Garner and Speaker Joseph W. Byrns in the unique two-hour broadcast review of the Administration’s past two years over the
Columbia Broadcasting System’s nationwide network Monday, March 4. The entire cabinet has accepted Columbia’s invitation to tell of the problems
encountered and the work completed by each department since March 4, 1933. The members will speak from their offices in
Washington between 2:30 and 4:30 P.M., EST, in the program entitled “Of the People, By the People, For the People.”
In addition, U. S. Commissioner of Education John W. Studebaker will discuss the historic significance of the past two years.

COMPASSING THE CAMPUS
By Scotty McLeod

A new note in music was struck on the campus when Buddy Robinson, Moreland Cunningham and their cohorts began their
nightly appearances at the Davidson Hotel last week. Every evening the nine-piece orchestra scrapes out its melodic masterpieces in the
main dining room of the hotel. Never did we believe that boarders at this college would listen to the soothing
strains of dinner music. If some of the other boarding houses on the Hill would employ melodious aggregations as an
added attraction, it might serve to offset the deleterious effect which so often results from consuming their products of culinary
art. Music to supplement cuisine. Or even, songs to offset chow. That a silent meal is more harmful to the
digestive organs than one accompanied by soft music is a fact which has long been recognized. For correct eating, one
must be in the right mood. Undoubtedly music produces moods which may enhance the joy of mastication. Peculiar eruptions which
occasionally emanate from the Pills Brothers around Thompson’s way...could hardly be placed in the category of “soft music” and their
effect upon digestion is dubious.

SPRING

Many are the indications of the coming of spring: Charlie Thompson has dusted off his baseball and glove... seniors wander
off to Charlotte in the middle of the week... overcoats go from wardrobe to pawn-shop... the co-eds smile more brightly
than usual and sometimes receive an answering grin from a springful student... midwinter dances seem ages ago... those Sunday trips
to the gullies attract more and more review-worn undergrads... increase in postal service to and from Davidson. All of which
proves that Shakespeare was right—“In the spring a young man’s fancy”—and so is a young woman.

JUNIOR SPEAKING

Despite the efforts of some would-be tradition-destroyers, Junior Speaking Dances will be Junior Speaking Dances. It was the opinion of
some members of the Junior class that the name of the third-class hops should be changed to Junior Prom or
some other more modern and appropriate title. In voting to sustain the judgment of past classes in retaining the present
title, we believe the class of '36 acted wisely. Junior Speaking is a unique hop-name. It originated years ago when
the juniors held a kind of speaking and debating contest. From Demosthenes to Terpsichore has been the transmutation of Junior
Speaking. It is not easy to break with tradition at Davidson. In some cases, such a divorce would be highly
desirable but in the present case we believe that precedent is better unbroken. Dire results might follow in the wake
of such a drastic metamorphosis in appellation. Suppose John Siewers had asked Ikey Dyer up to Davidson for “Junior Speaking”;
then suppose the name was changed to “Junior Prom.” Now, Ikey would be in a quandary as to whether she
should come or not because she didn’t really have a date for “Junior Prom.” Get the connection? A has invited
B, but B hasn’t been invited, don’t you see?

TRAVELS

Our usual stooge reports on extracurricular activities of all youse guys have not come in and our information is strictly
limited on that account. We do know that Jack Branch, along with a number of other Davidsonians, was in Raleigh
for the half-fortnight-end. St. Mary’s had a little recreation to offer the boys. Gus Maynard finally managed a trip to
Charlotte; this being his first to that fair city, he has brought back glowing reports of the doings of the
city slickers. Gus hopes that he will be able to get back over to the “big town” before he graduates
in June. An exclusive interview with Kayo’s master revealed the fact that there are some buildings in Charlotte so high
that even Jim Morgan couldn’t see over the top of them. Must be great to travel and see all those
sights, sez we.

WE NOMINATE

A few personal nominations: most colorful room in Georgia is that of Wimpy Ravenel and Fritz Byerly... John (Shylock) Taylor,
best businessman in school... Geddie Munro, most consistently good-humored egg that we can find...

FIVE YEARS AGO

Davidson marksmen are victors in V. P. I. match... Converse Glee Club gives hit performance... Sigma Phi Epsilon plans installation
of chapter on campus... Spring football to end with Spring Holidays... Wildcats close basketball season with win over Wofford 29-10...
College dramatists present Octoroon... Captain Pritchett and Mr. Jackson plan tour of alumni groups... Dr. W. H. Frazer, president of
Queens, will be vesper speaker Sunday.

TEN YEARS AGO

Field Day marks opening of spring track season... Davidson quint closes successful season by beating Deacons 48-28... Queens Glee Club
gives concert... Track prospects bright... Second spring football game ends in tie... Big squad out for baseball... J. B. Duke
visits campus.

FIFTEEN YEARS AGO

Junior Speaking was a gala affair... Fair ones throng hill for fraternity receptions... Davidson five loses last game of season
to State... H. M. Grey, former All-American, returns to campus as head coach... Nine lettermen return to baseball squad.

OUR CONTEMPORARIES

By Enrp Bowers

Through State Capital Keyholes

By Bess Hinton Silver

France

In all the universities of France, there are no papers, no glee clubs, no fraternities, no athletics, and no commencement.

Becoming a Playboy

Courses in “Use of Leisure” will be offered next year at Whitman College, Walla Walla, Washington. That knowledge would be
about as useful as knowing how to swim would be in the Sahara Desert unless they have a prerequisite course
on “where one may find an extra minute for leisure.”

Fraternal Love

A butler in the Lambda Chi house at the University of Alabama has three children, whom he has named Lambda,
Chi, and Alpha.

A Very Short Name

Cornell University is positive it has a student whose name is as short as anyone else’s in the world. The
student is Mr. I, a graduate from Tsinan, Shantung, China. His first name is Iu and his middle name is
Te.

Nay, League

The Literary Digest poll renders a comparatively accurate cross-section of the attitude prevalent in the American colleges. A vote of
more than two to one says that America can stay out of another war and only a slight majority against
the United States entering the League of Nations. An overwhelming vote of more than 9 to 1 in favor of
government control of armament and munitions industries. This may be socialism but it would be a great deal superior to
the present system.

It Pays to Advertise

A small advertisement placed in a New York newspaper benefited Wake Forest College to the extent of over one-fourth of
her present value, including her endowment, property, and buildings. The president of the college in 1884 went to New York
to find a wealthy benefactor for his institution. He looked around for a while but was unable to find one.
Then he placed a small ad in one of New York's popular dailies, advertising for someone to help a small
Southern college. Mr. Jabez A. Bostick, president of the Standard Oil Company at that time, answered the ad and created
a fund for ministerial students and the following year he gave the college a gift of $50,000 in Standard Oil
stock which increased in value to $400,000. Today Bostick's gifts are worth $1,500,000.

A Swell Joint

Two undergraduates at Wake Forest have bought a soda shop and are jerking their way through college. Business is picking
up under the “New Deal.”

About Colleginia

Rutgers University will introduce a new four-year course introductory to government service next fall. The course is designed for those
preparing for public administration work. They will also introduce a four-year course in band practice... Fifty students at Vallipin, Spain,
locked up two professors until they promised to pass the entire class without an examination... Legal subsidizing of athletes is
under consideration at Penn State... The Olympic games of 1936 at Berlin will admit basketball as a contesting sport. There
will be from 18 to 20 teams entered in the competition from the United States... A student at St. John’s
College, while copying another student’s examination paper, absent-mindedly also copied the other’s name... Vassar College for Women was founded by
a brewer who wanted to see if women could be educated... Only 35 women are at present in Japanese universities...
An investigation at the University of Iowa shows that one out of every eleven campus engagements results in marriage... Because
of popular demands, tango lessons will be offered at the University of Minnesota... One of the biggest treats of 1935
radio programs will be the recital of Ignace Paderewski which will be given if all plans work out at least
by this coming October... Senator Elbert D. Thomas, of Utah, former professor at the University of Utah, has suggested that
at least 10,000 students should be exchanged between the United States and Japan in the future...

Commencement Invitations
Fraternity Publications
1143 E. FOURTH ST.
K. D. WEEKS
Fine Printing
QUEEN CITY PRINTING CO.
Representatives
Visiting Cards
Personal and Fraternity Stationery
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
JOE WADSWORTH
