CHAPMAN, CARLSON AND CORBIN WILL LEAD STUDENT BODY

The Davidsonian

ALENODA LUX UB! ORTA LIBERTAS

PORT AND SALANGO DEFEAT SEWANEE ON DEBATE TRIP

Vol. XXII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., MARCH 20, 1935 No. 21

CHAPMAN ELECTED PRESIDENT OF STUDENT BODY

DEBATING TEAM TAKES FIRST ON WESTERN TOUR

Port And Salango Victorious Over University Of South Tennessee

HOME DEBATE MARCH 22

Centre And Kentucky On Program Before Return

Davidson's debating team, now touring the West, composed of Tyler Port and James Salango, was victorious in its first engagement,
with the University of the South at Sewanee, Tenn., last Friday evening, March 15. Port and Salango upheld the affirmative
side of the question, Resolved: That the nations should agree to prevent the international shipment of arms and munitions.

The western debate team then journeyed to Centre, Ky., there to engage in debate with Centre College on the night
of March 19. The results of this debate could not be obtained before The Davidsonian’s going to press. Tonight, March
20, they will debate with the University of Kentucky at Lexington, Ky. From there they will return to the campus
to take part in coming home debates.

This is Port's first year in varsity college debating. He was, however, a member of last year’s freshman debate team.
Salango, a junior, is a transfer from Davis-Elkins Junior College, and is also new to varsity debating.

The first home debate of the year will be held Friday night, March 22, in Chambers Auditorium, after the presentation
of the play, “Three Taps at Twelve,” by the Red and Black Masquers. Davidson's opponents will be the debating team
from Southwestern University, Memphis, Tenn. Bob Smith and Wade Boggs will represent Davidson in this debate. This is Smith’s third
year as varsity debater; he was also on the freshman debating team his freshman year. Boggs is a sophomore, and
this is his first year of college debating. These men and P. Y. Herlan will leave shortly before the holidays
on a debate tour throughout the eastern part of the United States. They will engage in debate with William and
Mary, Rutgers University, Bucknell University, and Middlebury College, upholding the negative side of the query, Resolved: That the nations should
agree to prevent the international shipment of arms and munitions.

There will be four home debates this year. No admission charges will be made, and all students and townspeople are
cordially invited to attend. The subject for these debates will be the same as the other intercollegiate debates. It is
planned that Skip Brown and Bob Smith will appear together in the last of the home debates.

The southern debating team, composed of Harold Sugg and Albert Stutts, returned to the campus March 9, after successful meets
with the College of Charleston, the University of Miami, Emory University, and Georgia Tech. The southern team upheld the affirmative
side of the question.

ALBERT McCLURE

Above is Albert McClure, secretary of the campus YMCA, whose welcome decision to remain at Davidson next year is announced
in this issue of The Davidsonian.

McClure Retained As “Y” Secretary

Member Of Class Of '31 And Graduate Of Union Seminary To Remain

Albert McClure, secretary of the Y. M. C. A. at Davidson, has been selected to fill the same position during
the coming year. He was selected last year to succeed Sam Wiley, who had held the office for the two
preceding years. This selection was a departure from the usual plan for such selections. It had been the plan to
select some member of the graduating class, but the Y board felt that in McClure’s case the departure was more
than justifiable.

McClure graduated from Davidson in 1931, after a highly successful student career. He was popular on the campus, a member
of Delta Omicron Kappa, and vice-president of his class during his senior year. He was a member of the Y.
M. C. A. Cabinet, student pastor of the Davidson Unity Church, and winner of the Algernon Sidney Sullivan award. This
award is presented annually to the member of the Senior class who, in the opinion of a faculty committee, has
given the most unselfish service to mankind. It is also presented yearly to some outsider who has best filled this
qualification.

McClure was a graduate of Union Theological Seminary last spring, and took over his duties as Y secretary during the
past summer. Wiley, whom he succeeded, is now a student at Union. McClure was president of his class during the
middle year, and during his last year at the seminary he delivered the best sermon ever given at Union. He
came to Davidson from Rabun Gap, Ga., and received his early scholastic training in the Nacoochee School.

His work as Y secretary during the past year has been attended by unusual success, and the Y. M. C.
A. board was highly pleased to obtain his services for another year. Pressed for a statement, McClure reluctantly consented to
give one. The statement follows: “When I came to Davidson this year in the midst of an entirely new student
body, I felt almost (Continued on Page 6, Col. 1)

Junior Class Gives Brilliant Set Of Dances In Charlotte

Miss Elizabeth Neil Of Marion Is Selected Queen Of Junior Class Dances

A brilliant set of Junior class dances, presented at the Charlotte Armory-Auditorium, terminated with a gay, informal affair on Saturday
night, March 16, with Miss Elizabeth Neil of Marion selected as “Queen of the Junior Speaking Dances.” With much pomp
and ceremony, Major R. T. Rhett of Davidson presented the popularly-elected beauty queen with the crown of the Junior Speaking
Dances. Ray Richardson, senior at Davidson College, was Miss Neil’s escort.

Bill Allsbrook and his orchestra were received with much popular acclaim. His newly-adopted torch singer, Lou Gregory, met every possible
expectation with her popular arrangements of the latest hits. Allsbrook’s imitation of Guy Lombardo’s interpretation of “O Davidson” was the
star performance of the evening. “Geddie” Monroe offered Monroe’s interpretation of “Love Is Just Around the Corner,” “Here Come the
British,” “Believe It, Beloved,” “Dinah,” and other popular song hits. Monroe and Bill Northen aided Miss Gregory in a novelty
number, “The Breeze.” “Bird in the Cage" tempted many members of the student body to demonstrate hidden abilities in mimicking
twentieth-century Russian fan dancers. Their snake-like performances and characteristic duck walks were the center of attraction during the free exhibition
period.

THREE ACT PLAY TO BE OFFERED BY DRAMATISTS

Red And Black Masquers Present Melodrama “Three Taps At Twelve” Friday

DIRECTED BY DONNIGAN

Miss Lucy Currie And Fields Horine Take Leads

The Red and Black Masquers will offer their second dramatic presentation of the year on Friday evening, March 22. This
organization, an honorary society for achievement in dramatic art, will present a three-act mystery melodrama, entitled Three Taps at Twelve.
The direction of the play is in the hands of Edward Donnigan, who took a leading part in one of
the earlier productions, A Night at An Inn. Professor I. J. Erwin, Bill Pierce, Dunlap Covington, and Dave Herring are
in charge of the renovation of scenery.

The cast of the play is as follows: The Ingenue—Miss Lucy Currie; The Juvenile Lead—Fields Horine; The Dope Addict—Treadway Purnell;
The Uncle—Richard Hillier; Mrs. Gage—Miss Letitia Currie; Her Husband—Joe Dees; “Catfish”—A. C. Cline; Mrs. Saker—Miss Steele; and Dr. Hull—P. Y.
Harlan.

Miss Letitia Currie and Miss Lucy Martin Currie, taking the female parts, have been active in aiding the Red and
Black Masquers with past productions. A. C. Cline, the only freshman in the cast, took a minor part in one
of the three plays presented in October. The play is a mystery in which one character is ruthlessly murdered in
a seemingly innocent game of Murder, played at the dinner party of a retired millionaire. Finally, after a series of
thrilling events, the nephew of the old millionaire determines the identity of the guilty person from a few meager clues.

Special attention is called to the fact that for the first time in a number of years, there will be
no admission charge. There will, however, be a free-will offering taken for those who wish to contribute toward the necessary
expenses of the production of the play.

Bowery Ball Will Be Held April 13

Students Dust Off Ancient Costumes In Preparation For Social Event

No sooner than the din and madding crowds of the Junior Speaking leave comes the warning of P. Mims Rogers,
president of the Pan-Hellenic Council, to dust off the derby hat, peg top pants, and brown plaid ensembles. For the
Bowery Ball is coming April 13, Saturday, preceded by the usual Friday night formal dance, April 12. Then costumes of
unusual and ancient flavor will be in order as the clock turns back twenty years.

President Rogers refused to say whether the Philadelphia Philharmonic Symphony Orchestra or Goldman’s Band would be chosen for the occasion,
but did confide to this news-hungry reporter that the orchestra would prove highly satisfactory and that the prices for the
set will resemble those offered in pre-war time.

The task of decorating has been relegated to “Geddie” Monroe, the artist of Junior Speaking, who between wisecracks and puns
informed us that he would do his best. The only rule governing the ball, stated Rogers, is that costumes be
different, not necessarily archaic. A prize will be given to the girl wearing the most picturesque costume and also to
the boy who fulfills the same requirements.Down on fraternity bids for the Junior Speaking weekend were: Beta Theta Pi: Frances
Matheson, Charlotte; Lois MacAleese, Springfield, Mass.; Wesdell McCollum, Reidsville; Sarah Metz, Charlotte; Margaret Page, Ashboro; Elinor Jackson, Charlotte; Hannah Knowlton,
Charlotte; Emma (Continued on Page 6, Col. 3)

LAM MORRISON TO SPEAK HERE FOUNDERS DAY
Former Governor will Speak On Davidson College’s Past, Present And Future
ALUMNI CHAPTERS MEET
Music, Addresses, And Motion Picture On Program

Cameron Morrison, former governor of North Carolina and United States Senator, will be the featured speaker at the second annual
Founder’s Day program, to be held on this campus April 9. Mr. Morrison, one of North Carolina's most prominent men,
will be sponsored by the Road and Greater School. Mr. Morrison's address, which will be presented at 11 o'clock Tuesday
morning, concerns “Davidson College, Its Past, Present, and Future.” An additional feature of the program will be an address by
William R. Perkins of New York, confidential advisor to the late James B. Duke. His address will be centered upon
the life and work of Mr. Duke.

The college will be host to the Duke trustees and other visitors at a luncheon at 1 o'clock the same
day. Immediately after lunch, a motion picture on the work of the Duke Endowment will be shown at the local
theater, through the courtesy of Stough Brothers. As a tribute to the work of James B. Duke, a portrait of
him will be unveiled at the college by Rev. William E. McIlwain, D.D. The picture was painted by a New
York artist and was purchased by the trustees of the college.

Davidson’s alumni chapters in many cities will hold their annual meetings the night of April 9. All those alumni unable
to attend the celebration will be reached through the radio program which will be broadcast from 6:15 to 6:30 the
evening of the 9th, through the facilities of Station WBT, Charlotte. Last year over 400 Davidson alumni gathered at the
Founder's Day meeting.

Re-Examinations are March 29
Spring Holidays this year will begin on the afternoon of March 29, according to Mr. F. W. Hengeveld, registrar, and
a recent announcement from the office of Dean M. E. Sentelle. Re-examinations will be given on the 29th at 2:30
o'clock. With this fateful notice came the announcement that grades should arrive while the students are home for the spring
holidays. Professors will turn in their mid-semester grades on March 27; as soon as these grades are filed, they will
be sent to the parents. If all the professors are prompt in turning in their grades, it is possible that
students may see their grades in the registrar’s office before the holidays begin.

This mid-semester report is the only one sent out during the second semester. Although this is the only report sent
out, reviews will be held as usual at the end of every month’s work.

In regard to the re-examinations, Dr. Sentelle pointed out that all seniors and those members of other classes who failed
to take examinations because of sickness in January, may take as many examinations as they choose at that time, providing
that they make arrangements with the professor whose examination they wish to take. Other students may take only one examination
at a time. All students taking re-examinations must see their professors in advance and request them to hand the questions
to Mr. Hengeveld before the spring holidays. A fee of $2.50 will be charged for each examination. The fee will
be remitted in the case of examinations postponed on account of sickness.

PRESIDENT-ELECT
Carleton Chapman, of Talladega, Alabama, who defeated Coley Windham, of Gastonia, in the election last week and thus became the
President of the Student Body for the coming year.

French Club Gives Play At Rock Hill
Three Act Comedy Given By Davidson In Joint Meeting With Winthrop Society

Seventeen members of Le Cercle Francais left last Wednesday for Rock Hill, S.C., for a joint meeting with the Winthrop
College chapter of Beta Pi Theta, honorary French fraternity. The Winthrop girls were hostesses at a dinner on the campus
at 6 o'clock, in the tea room. At 7:30 both clubs combined in presenting a program in Johnston Hall. The
Winthrop students gave a one-act play by Tristan Bernard, entitled “Marches Lippees.” Mary McGinis offered several musical selections.

Davidson's part in the program consisted of the presentation of Moliere’s “Le Medecin Malgre Lui,” a three-act comedy. In the
title role of Sganarelle, Woodrow Hassell gave a spirited interpretation of the woodchopper who was forced to become a doctor
“in spite of himself.” Jim Cothran played “Valere” most successfully in a performance marked by clear diction and expression. Tom
Wood's portrayal of “Geronte” as a wealthy and arrogant nobleman was excellent, especially in the second act. Carlyle Lewis, as
the humorous peasant, Lucas, drew much applause for his antics. Bob Coit played the part of “Leandre,” the youthful lover,
with a dash that promises much for this young gentleman in the future. In the female parts, Harvey Glass gave
an understanding interpretation of Martine, the quarrelsome wife of Sganarelle, and Jimmy Simpson was successful as Lucinde. In minor parts,
John McMullen as Monsieur Robert, Bill Pearce as Valere, Archie Coleman as Perrin, and Bill Cassels as the nurse, Jaqueline,
all did well for themselves.

Following the program, which was open to the public, a reception was held for the visitors. Davidson Le Cercle Francais
will present “Le Medecin Malgre Lui” in Spartanburg on April 4, and the Converse Alliance Francais will visit Davidson a
few days later, at which time the two clubs will give a joint performance in Chambers Auditorium.

CARLSON NAMED VICE-PRESIDENT IN FINAL BALLOT
Corbin Is Selected As Second Vice-President; Kiesewetter Secretary-Treasurer
UNUSUALLY CLOSE RACE
Large Number Of Candidates Nominated For Each Office

In an election characterized by keen competition, Carleton Chapman, of Talladega, Ala., was elected president of the Davidson Student Body
for next year. Carl Carlson, of Greensboro, and Tom Corbin, of Fremont, were chosen first and second vice-presidents, respectively. Bill
Kiesewetter, of Rierstown, Md., was elected secretary-treasurer of the Student Body. The four above officers were elected only after the
third ballot and the race for vice-president required a fourth voting for completion.

The recommendation committee, composed of four seniors, two juniors, and one sophomore, presented their nominations to the Student Body on
Tuesday. Carleton Chapman, Harvey Glass, and Treadway Purnell were nominated by the committee for president. Jake Morrow and Coley Windham
were nominated from the floor. Wade Boggs, Jack Branch, Carl Carlson, and Kenneth Scott were nominated by the committee for
vice-presidency. Tom Corbin, Wilbur Edwards, and Jim Morton were nominated from the floor. For secretary-treasurer the committee nominated Joe Alderman,
Wade Barrowsmith, and Bill Kiesewetter. From the floor came nominations for P. H. Arrowsmith, Bill Crooks, and Bill Rader.

In the voting for president on Wednesday, three men were left in the race, Windham, Chapman, and Glass, having between
them a total of 253 votes, or 66 percent of all votes cast. The difference in the number of votes
was less than 25, a remarkably close margin. On Thursday, Chapman led Windham by only 23 votes. In the final
vote taken on Friday, Chapman won by a slightly larger margin, thereby becoming Student Body president for 1935-36. Chapman is
from Talladega, Ala., a member of Eta Sigma Phi, Delta Phi, Sigma Delta, and social fraternity.

In the vice-president race on Wednesday, only two men were eliminated on the first ballot. The first three, Carlson, Boggs,
and Branch, held less than 50 percent of the votes between them. This necessitated taking in a fourth man. Branch
and Morton were tied for fourth place with 104 votes each, therefore both were included in Thursday’s ballot. The difference
between the highest and lowest man was again only about 30. On Thursday, Boggs was eliminated, leaving Carlson, Corbin, and
Branch. (Continued on Page 6, Col. 1)

Dr. Dobie Delivers Lecture To Student Body At Chapel
Dean Of Law School At University Of Virginia Talks On “Law And Language”

The student body here had the honor of hearing Dr. Armistead Dobie, of the University of Virginia, at the chapel
hour on last Tuesday. Dr. Dobie gave a very forceful and informative talk on the subject, “Law and Language.” Dobie
spoke authoritatively and presented his subject in a way which spoke through itself of the many years of experience as
professor and ultimate appointment to the position of dean of the School of Law at Virginia, a position which he
now holds.

The lecture committee, under the leadership of Dr. Edwin Shewmake, have made untiring efforts to bring popular lecturers of high
caliber before our students. Following this plan, this committee will bring Dr. English Bagby, eminent psychologist and noted lecturer, of
the University of North Carolina, to speak the evening of April 8. Dr. Bagby is a specialist in the field
of abnormal psychology and is a member of the administrative staff of the School of Medicine at the university. He
will take as his subject for his talk here, “Some Applications of Psychology in Practical Life.” Dr. Bagby was for
a number of years a member of the faculty at Yale University and comes to us highly recommended by those
who have heard him. During the summer sessions at Columbia University in New York, Dr. Bagby holds a position as
professor of psychology.
