THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 27, 1935

GOLF TEAM WINS AT N.C. AND TIES HAMPTON-SYDNEY

In the Field of Sports

DEACONS DOWNED BY VARSITY AND FROSH SATURDAY

RAMON BROWN BATSMEN BEGIN

Coach John Kobs will bring his Michigan State College Spartans of East Lansing to the Wildcats’ lair Friday afternoon to
engage Coach Laird’s Feline nine, and we wonder just how the outcome will be. Last season the Spartans took the
Wildcats for an easy trouncing to a 16-6 tune, and they come back Friday with the same nine that invaded
in 1934, excepting one new outfielder. This fact presents them rather formidably, but Monday afternoon the Clemson Tigers shut them
out 5-0, and the Tigers have been about on a par with the Wildcats for the last two seasons. On
the other hand, the Davidsonians will still be seeing red from last spring's bitter upset, so it will be no
easy go for the Spartans. Fact is, a victory on the Presbyterian side seems the most likely prediction.

LOOK GOOD

In the few drills that I have seen them so far the Wildcats have looked plenty good. The infield with
“Wood” Burns at the initial sack, Floyd Bumgarner on second, Hank Loftin at shortstop, Johnny Mackorell in the “hot corner,”
and “Wimpy” Ravenel behind the plate, shows a world of pep, and they are all pretty nifty ball handlers too.
“Wimpy” tells me that he’s got an eagle eye at the plate this year, and he isn't the only one
who thinks so, and, too, he isn’t the only one who has his peepers peeled for the pellet. Johnny Mackorell
and Jim Morgan are still swinging the willow in fine fashion, along with several rookies and other likely candidates. Mound
worries don’t look as great this spring as is usually the case. Charlie Harris, Paul Coble and Jack Jenkins are
a trio of armed veteran hurlers on hand, and Jack Somerville and “Lefty” Porter show considerable promise in the novice
group. Harris or Coble will probably start on the hill against Michigan.

GOLFERS DELIVER

The Wildcat golfers very pleasantly surprised their followers last Friday afternoon by defeating the North Carolina State Big Five champions.
The ’Cats this season are composed of two juniors, Charlie Hamrick and Bill Snow, and two sophomores, George Cowan and
Charlie Ross, and they are four neat club wielders. Their playing form is unusually well developed, and they all shoot
consistently in the seventies. This team will be one of the best ever sent out from the Presbyterian camp.

HOLE IN ONE

Ab Price, a frequent inhabitor of the local golf links, almost became a member of the “hole in one club”
Saturday afternoon, when he drove his tee shot on the third hole directly to the cup. It was so direct
that it bounced out of the tin-lined holder onto the green. An excellent shot despite its failure to behave as
it should.

SWAN SONG

One friend professed, during the recent past, to be an ardent reader of this column, but, with an air of
sympathy, added that it was as boring as plodding through Mississippi mud. That friend being from the Magnolia State, presented
an undeniable analogy, nevertheless, it has been a pleasure for me to handle the Sports Department of The Davidsonian during
the past year, and I hope most readers have been able to derive some small bit of interest from this
part of the paper. I am very happy to announce that Mr. Harry Kuykendal, of Greensboro, will conduct this corner
from now until this time next spring. Harry has been a very faithful member of the sophomore reportorial staff. He
has shown unusual interest and adaptability in newspaper work, and it is with pleasure and confidence that I bequeath to
him the Sports Editorship of The Davidsonian.

LOCAL GOLFERS DEFEAT STATE BY 12-6

Charlie Ross, George Cowan, Bill Snow, Charlie Hamrick Make Up Team

NEWTON COACHES GOLF

Wildcat Linksmen Tie Hampton-Sydney At Charlotte

The 1935 edition of the varsity golf team got off to a fine start last Friday when they took the
measure of N. C. State’s links team by a score of 12 to 6. State, boasting the state championship from
last year’s brilliant performance and having three members of that same team playing their third year of varsity golf, was
a formidable opponent for the first match of the comparatively inexperienced Wildcat linkers, playing for their first time together.

Playing under very undesirable weather conditions, the Wildcat linksmen came into a deadlock with Hampden-Sydney on the Charlotte Golf Course
Monday afternoon, the score being 9 to 9. In the first meet, the combination of two sophomores and two juniors,
coached by “Doc” Newton this year, proved to be a winning one, and the Wildcats emerged victorious. Charlie Ross, sterling
sophomore from Charlotte and playing in the number one position, was medalist for the day with a 73, three over
par for the eighteen-hole route. His round was good enough to win three points from Dusty, ace State player. Ross
with George Cowan, another sophomore from Charlotte, won three points from Dusty and Newnham of State in the four-ball match.
Cowan, with an excellent 78, took runner-up honors and won 2½ points from Newnham. Ross’ card follows:

Results in the first foursome—Davidson 8½, N. C. State 7½. Results in the second foursome—Davidson 3½, State 5½. Final results—Davidson
12, N. C. State 6.

In the Hampden-Sydney meet, Bill Snow was medalist with the score of 74. In the first foursome Charlie Ross won
three points and lost none. Cowan was defeated and his opponent won three tallies. Ross and Cowan lost three in
the best-ball match. Snow, playing number three in the second foursome, won 2½ and lost ½. Charlie Hamrick won 1½
and lost 1½. Snow and Hamrick won two and lost one.

Intra-Mural Sport Card Begins Soon

Inter-class competition will be continued April 3, immediately after holidays, with intramural baseball. Indoor-outdoor baseball will be played in all
these games, instead of the regular intercollegiate sport. The schedule for the season will be as follows: Seniors vs. Freshmen,
Juniors vs. Sophomores, Seniors vs. Sophomores, Juniors vs. Freshmen, Seniors vs. Juniors, Sophomores vs. Freshmen.

Up to the present seven out of twelve sports have been played off. The number of points earned by each
class is as follows: Juniors, leading with 105 points; Seniors, 90 points; Freshmen, 80 points, and Sophomores, 70 points. As
in the other class competitions already held, the winning team will earn 20 points, and the runner-up, 15 points. The
team taking third place gets 10, and the fourth, five points.

Third Year Men Lead Decathlon

Frazier And Dickson Take Individual Honors In Track Competition

The intramural decathlon, an innovation pronounced successful by Wildcat track officials, was concluded Saturday with the Junior class taking first
honors in the class race and Earle Frazier, a junior, copping the blue ribbon in the individual contests. The juniors
piled up a total of 850 points in the contest to lead the sophomores by 64 points. Not only did
the Big-Hat men prove runners-up in the class race, but one of the Centennials took second in individual honors. Walter
Dickson, sophomore, made a total of 250½ points. The seniors took third in the class contest with 601 points and
in the also-rans among the individual races, Fritz Byerly gathered 183 points and Bob Gregory 136. Byerly is a senior
and Gregory a junior transfer.

A total of forty-five students entered in the decathlon, which was sponsored by the Athletic Council to try to uncover
individual talent and provide opportunity to pass the requirements for Sigma Delta Psi, national athletic fraternity. A number of events
were offered and any student could pick the ten he wished to enter. Heath Whittle, track coach, stated this morning
that the decathlon would become a regular part of the sports schedule beginning next year. Other students who figured well
in the decathlon were Archie MacFadyen with 94½, Audley Gammon with 93½, and Paul McLanahan with 93 points. A freshman,
Bill Wicker, proved to be the outstanding sub-Centennial candidate with 117½ points.

In the 100-yard dash Dickson and Byerly tied, stepping off the race in 10.8 seconds. They were followed by Gregory
and Duke Glasgow, who made the dash in 11 flat. Paul McLanahan ran the 220-yard dash in 24 seconds to
take first honors in that event. Dickson, with 24.2 seconds, was followed by Frazier and Gregory, who clocked it in
24.3. Bob Gregory ran the 440-yard run in 55.8 seconds, to take first, and he was followed by Bill Bell,
who made it in 56.8. The 880-yard run saw a sophomore and a freshman, Tom Thompson and “Howe” Pharr, take
first in 2.20 minutes. Second places were taken by Peyton Montgomery and Harmon Woodward with 2 minutes and 28 seconds.
Earle Frazier claimed his own in the mile run and took first place with 4:43. He was followed by Billy
Merchant with 4:53 and Archie MacFadyen with a run of 4:59. There were no entries in the two-mile.

DAVIDSON'S NET TEAM LOSES TO OHIO STATE MEN

Varsity Leaves Tomorrow On Eight-Day Trip Through Southern States

DOUBLES TEAM WINS

Florida, Georgia, South Carolina To Be Met On Trip

The Davidson varsity tennis team began their 1935 season last Friday afternoon by losing to Ohio State by the score
of 5-1. The Wildcat netmen could win only one match from the northern team, a doubles match in which “Dud”
Elvery and Martin Barnett of Davidson defeated Iams and Clymer of Ohio State, 6-3, 7-5.

The varsity tennis team plans to leave early tomorrow morning on an eight-day southern trip for matches with six teams
in Florida, Georgia, and South Carolina. On Friday afternoon the first regular game of the schedule will be played against
the University of Florida at Gainesville, Fla. The next day they will meet Rollins College at Winter Park, Fla. On
Monday the team will arrive in Atlanta, Ga., and play Georgia Tech.Tech that afternoon and Emory University on the following
afternoon. Wednesday morning they will go to Athens, Ga. and meet the University of Georgia. On Thursday they will play
the University of South Carolina at Columbia and return to Davidson. The tentative line-up of the team on this trip
is: Singles, 1, Carlyle Lewis; 2, Tommy Phifer; 3, Martin Barnett; 4, “Dud” Elvery; 5, George Hornbeck; 6, Jake Morrow.
Doubles, 1, Elvery and Barnett; 2, Lewis and Hornbeck; 3, Phifer and Garrett. Scores on the matches Friday follow: Chambers,
Ohio State, defeated Lewis, Davidson, 6-2, 6-4; Nihousin, Ohio State, defeated Phifer, Davidson, 6-3, 6-2; Iams, Ohio State, defeated Elvery,
Davidson, 8-6, 6-1; Clymer, Ohio State, defeated Barnett, Davidson, 2-6, 6-4, 6-0. In the other doubles match Chambers and Nihousin,
Ohio State, defeated Lewis and Hornbeck, Davidson, 6-4, 6-3. Although the Davidson team was defeated in the opening of the
season by Ohio State, spectators believed that the Wildcat netmen showed prospects of developing into a winning team. Wicker took
the high hurdles in 17.2 seconds and was followed by Dickson and Ben Rose, who ran it in 17.8 and
19.2 seconds, respectively.

(Continued on Page 5, Col. 6)

Freshmen Show Up Well On Tennis Courts And Diamond
Kenny, Kiesewetter, Frampton And Cooke Seeded For Tournament Play

Drawings for the freshman tennis tournament were held last week with fifteen men entered. These men are: “Sky” Cline, Owen
Cooke, Harry Frampton, Gene Ganier, James Hartzog, Bronston Kenny, Russell Kerr, Bill Kiesewetter, Charles Moore, Torrey Mclean, Gus Reinhardt, Oris
Rolt, and Richard Vowles. The tournament is under the direction of Bob Lindsay. A ladder will be formed from the
showing in this tournament. The first six men will be chosen to form the team. However, in most matches only
a four-man team will be used. There were four men seeded. These were Kenny, Kiesewetter, Frampton, and Cooke. This seeding
was taken from the showing in the freshman fall tournament last semester. The tournament is progressing slowly on account of
the weather and varsity matches. All of the matches must be over by April 10, however. Round robins will be
held later in the season to determine the places on the team among the first four and second four. Meets
have been arranged with Charlotte High School, Winston-Salem High School, and N. C. State freshmen. The two meets with Charlotte
High School are pending, but are expected to be arranged for certain in the near future. For the first time
in some years Darlington has been dropped from the schedule due to the inability of the Darlington team to make
the trip to Davidson this year.

Coach Gene McEver Laments Dearth Of Pitching Staff

“Hit that apple! Let’s hear that old chatter in there now!” And these words are not infrequently heard falling from
the lips of the forty-odd aspirants who are put through their paces daily by Freshman Baseball Coach McEver. When not
hindered by inclement weather, the baseball proteges of Coach McEver have gone through their rigid tests with unusual enthusiasm. Batting
and fielding with individual instruction have been the order of the day. While a bit early to predict of what
calibre the team may be, indications point to a successful season if a good twirling staff can be developed. Infield
prospects are bright with “Teeny” Lafferty, Elie Ganier, Elwood Moyer, Tom Baskerville, Gene Ganier, and Bill Kiesewetter leading the way.
The catching department is being well taken care of by Joe Kellam and Doug Neal. In the outfield one finds
such embryonic fly-catchers as Feilden Clark, Spencer Goodman, Morris Morgan, Willard Dixon, and Bailey Williams. The big question mark in
the whole situation is the pitching staff, with only two men of previous experience doing the chucking; namely “Dopey” Hill
and “Cab” Calloway. Among the others who may break into the headlines before the season is very old are: Bill
Rader, Dan Rhodes, Bill Crooks, George Gray, Billy Nicholson, Bill Yelverton, Tom Morrison, Charles Brown, Joe Thompson, Johnny McQueen, Joe
McLaurin, Brent Greene, E. S. Parks, J. Rogers, Wallace Tomlinson, Bill Hobbs, and Bill Manson.

Pittman, Dickson, Deyerly, Montgomery Outstanding, As Varsity Wins 85-41
BARROW YEARLING STAR
Freeman Takes Two Firsts In 65-55 Frosh Victory

Davidson's varsity and freshman track squads gave hopeful glimmers of a successful 1935 track season with victories over Wake Forest
on the Deacons’ and Little Deacons’ cinders last Saturday. The varsity Wildcats had a decided edge over their rivals and
won by a score of 85 to 41. The yearlings were more evenly matched, but, led by Wade Barrow with
three first places and one second to his credit, the Kittens were the winners by a 65 to 55 count.
Among the Big Wildcats, Paul Pittman, junior, and Walter Dickson, the Century Limited, were outstanding. Pittman took the pole vault
and the low hurdles. Dickson won the hundred-yard dash, the broad jump and tied for second in the high jump.
Bill Deyerly, another Centennial contribution to future track teams, captured the high and low hurdles. The hundred and the two-mile
run were “all-Davidson,” with “Rip” Montgomery leading in the two-mile and Dickson taking first in the hundred-yard dash. The Wildcats
took eleven first places out of the fourteen events offered. Approximately 350 people watched the meet, the varsity summary of
which follows:

100-yard dash: Dickson (D), Deyerly (D), Glasgow (D). Time, 10.2.
220-yard dash: Deyerly (D), Dickson (D), Williams (WF). Time, 23.4.
440-yard dash: Edens (WF), Glasgow (D), Frazier (D). Time, 53.2.
880-yard run: Shuford (D), Williams (WF), Richardson (D). Time, 53.2.
One mile: Merchant (D), Gullette (D), Drake (WF). Time, 4.48.
Two-mile: Montgomery (D), McFadyen (D), Brown (D). Time, 11.11.
High hurdles: Deyerly (D), Parker (D), Scruggs (WF). Time, 17.2.
Low hurdles: Pittman (D), Bristol (WF), Canady (WF). Time, 26.0.
High jump: Gammon (D), Hensley (WF), and Dickson (D), tied for second place. Height, 5 feet, 8 inches.
Broad jump: Dickson (D), Wall (WF), Stroupe (WF). Distance, 20 feet, 9 inches.
Shot put: Jones (WF), Daniels (WF), Potter (D). Distance, 40 feet and three-quarter inches.
Discus: Beavers (WF), Edens (WF), Siewers (D). Distance, 115 feet, 8 inches.
Javelin: Newton (D), Morris (WF), Pearce (D).
Pole vault: Pittman (D), Punj (WF), Wall (WF). Height, 11 feet, 4 inches.

The freshmen won over their opponents by a more narrow margin, the summary of which follows:

100-yard dash: Harrison (D), and Johnson (WF). Time, 19.3.
220-yard dash: Barrow (D), and Harrison (D). Time, 24.1.
440-yard dash: Pharr (D), and Durham (WF). Time, 54.
880-yard run: Staton (WF), and Parcelle (D). Time, 2.13.
One mile: Parcell (D), and Gilks (D). Time, 5.06.
Two mile: Holloman (WF), only entry.
High hurdles: Barrow (D), and Wallace (WF). Time, 17.1.
Low hurdles: Wallace (WF), and Barrow (D). Time, 28.
High jump: Barrow (D), and Johnson (WF). Height, 5 feet, 5 inches.
Broad jump: Ainsley (D), and Johnson (WF). Distance, 19 feet, 9 inches.

WILDCAT TRACK SQUADS WIN OVER WAKE FOREST

Fort and Blackwelder Suffer First Defeats

Davidson’s two previously undefeated grapplers, Charlie Fort and Leroy Blackwelder, met their Waterloo last week and were defeated in the
first rounds of the National Collegiate Wrestling tournament held in the Gymnasium of Lehigh University, Bethlehem, Pa. According to reports,
Blackwelder lost by a time decision over his opponent in an extra period match, while Fort was pinned in a
little over two minutes to mark the first complete disaster ever suffered by the Wildcat Captain in the past few
years of Collegiate competition. The local grapplers, with Coach “Doc” Unger, left Davidson last Wednesday and are expected back before
the appearance of this publication. More definite facts about the meet were not available Monday. The Tournament was again won
this year by Pirate A. and M., taking two of the individual titles out of all competition throughout the U.
S. Out of the other 38 colleges competing for titles, Illinois, Indiana, and Penn State were the only ones to
meet with success, each of them getting an individual title.

Cat Nine Will Open Up Friday
Meet Michigan State Team Friday; To Play Lenoir-Rhyne Tuesday

The varsity baseball season will be formally opened on Richardson Field on next Friday afternoon, March 30, in a game
with Michigan State. This game will be followed by one more during the holidays, to be played at Hickory with
Lenoir-Rhyne next Tuesday, April 2. In these games either Jenkins, Harris or Coble will occupy the mound, probably sharing the
position equally. Ravenel or Wingfield will be behind the plate; “Wood” Burns will probably be at first, with Bumgarner at
second and Mackorell at third. In the outfield Morgan will be in left field, Rogers in center, and either Haake,
Partridge, or Dixon in right. Loftin and Quick will hold down the shortstop position. The varsity had a practice game
last Saturday afternoon, following another practice game between teams chosen from the varsity squad last Friday.

Freshman Golf Team Plays Charlotte High

The freshman golf team played their first match of the season yesterday, meeting the Charlotte High School team in Charlotte.
The match was played at the Myers Park Country Club around 2:30 o'clock. Results were not known in time to
be included in this issue of The Davidsonian. Members taking part were Irving S. Bull, Caton Dennis, Yates Faison and
Hinton Maples. This is the second year that a freshman golf team has been organized at Davidson.

Shot put: Freeman (D), and Vause (D). Distance, 46 feet, 7 1/4 inches.
Discus: Freeman (D), and Smith (WF). Distance, 108 feet, 5 inches.
Javelin: Turner (WF), and Smith (WF). Distance, 163 feet, 7 inches.

NO SHORT-CUTS IN HANES SHORTS!

Hanes cuts their shorts to the size the label says. They're big enough to let you bend and reach without
any gripping or ripping!

POPULAR PRICES
LONG WEAR
SERVICE

HANES Shirts, Shorts, Union-Suits for Men and Boys
P. H. HANES KNITTING COMPANY
