THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 27, 1935

New Proposals Discussed By International Relations Club
Chapman And Lindsay To Draft Constitution; Johnston To Be Advisor
PRES. DOWNIE PRESIDES
Model League Assembly To Convene At Winthrop

The International Relations Club held a business meeting in the parlor of Watts Dormitory on Friday, November 22 at 9:00. A proposed constitution for this club; new members; the coming Model League Assembly Convention; and the election of faculty advisor were the subjects of discussion at this meeting. C. B. Chapman and R. B. Lindsay were appointed on a committee to draft a constitution for this unit of the International Relations Club. The national organization has a constitution of course but heretofore the Davidson I. R. C. has not functioned under a constitution of its own. The committee is to report to the club at its next meeting which will be held next week. The club holds its meetings bimonthly. Paul Harlan was elected Secretary-Treasurer of the I. R. C. during the meeting also. It will be remembered that at the first meeting of the club this year T. E., Tom Downie, was elected president for the coming year. President Downie presided Friday night. A number of names of juniors and seniors were brought before the club as possible new members. In connection with the discussion of new members the club passed a ruling which makes it necessary for all candidates to have an average of 85 in their scholastic work before they can be taken into the club. It was also ruled that only members of the Senior and Junior Classes would be eligible for membership. The club will now look up the records of those men whose names were suggested at the meeting, and, if they have an average of 85 or above, they will be voted on by the present members, and if (Continued on Page 6)

A GALA THANKSGIVING PROGRAM At The State!
A fitting climax for Mother's splendid dinner! Bring her and enjoy this thrilling tale together! A daredevil soldier of fortune challenges the Hell of the Gran Chaco war for a woman's love!
JACK HOLT In “STORM OVER THE ANDES"
Saturday Only! With JOHNNY MACK BROWN Mona Barrie Antonio Moreno In “Between Men" Grant Withers

Rear Admiral RICHARD E. BYRD'S Second Great Antarctic Expedition into LITTLE AMERICA Monday, A Paramount Picture

Watch for Wed.-Thur. “ANNIE OAKLEY” “Together We Live” Barbara Stanwyck

Among the GREEKS
BETA THETA PI—Robert H. Frazier, District Chief, visited the Chapter last night. The usual feed was held Sunday night.
PI KAPPA ALPHA—Pledged H. Smith of the Sophomore Class. Brothers Jim Hodgen, Bill Archer, and Walt Dickson spent the week-end in Salisbury. The usual feed was held Sunday night.
KAPPA ALPHA—Had a party at their house Friday night. Fourteen brothers and pledges visited Spartanburg during the week-end.
SIGMA ALPHA EPSILON—Brother Lamont Brown spent the week-end in Greensboro. Brother Clark spent the week-end in Charlotte with Dick Ed Armfield. Dick and Ed plan to attend the Army-Navy game. The usual Sunday night feed was held.
KAPPA SIGMA—Brothers Billy Higgins, Billy Hill went to Richmond for the week-end. The usual feed was held Sunday night.
PI KAPPA PHI—The chapter announces the pledging of Robert (Tiger) Terry of Leland, Miss. Brothers Mitchell and Boobie Arrowsmith went home for the week-end. Brother Cameron went to Winston-Salem. Brother Alex Bowles went to Maxton for the week-end. Brother Bill Yelverton went to Greensboro. Brother Pinckney Stowe went to Belmont this week-end. Brothers Joe Hunter and Herb Willis spent the week-end in Charlotte and Rock Hill. Brother Vaul Warren visited the Chapter on Saturday. The brothers and pledges of the Chapter attended the funeral Friday of Pledge Mack Little. The party originally planned for Saturday night was cancelled because of his death. The regular feed was held on Sunday night with a large number of brothers and pledges attending.
PHI GAMMA DELTA—Will entertain tonight at the Salisbury Country Club from nine until ?. A bus will leave Davidson shortly after lunch carrying the brothers en route. Cokey Branton is reported to be trying out the future Mid-Winters dance orchestra at this time. The Cooke brothers visited in Greensboro over the week-end as did Hal Overton.
PHI DELTA THETA—Pledged Bob Lyerly of the Senior class and Bill Marquess of the Freshman class. Brothers John Partridge and Thomas Breeden spent the week-end in Spartanburg. The customary feed was held Sunday night.
SIGMA PHI EPSILON—Dr. and Mrs. Gwynn entertained the Chapter with a feed Sunday, November sixteenth. Brother Lyons has Brother Kuykendall’s habit of shuffling over to Queens City for a little fun week-end after week-end. “Thanks A Million” was seen by Pledge White when he couldn't contact his date.

Four Students Lead In Steel Creek Program
A deputation went to Steele Creek near Charlotte. Doctor J. M. Walker, '07, is pastor of the Presbyterian Church in Steele Creek. Bill Brown, John Brown, Warren Gaw, and Sherrard Rice made up the deputation and they conducted a program on “Peace.” Mr. C. L. Haney, new Educational director of the Citizens Conservation Corps Camp at Huntersville, asked the members of the Y.M.C.A. at Davidson to take over the Religious Service on Sunday mornings, and also the mid-week programs of lectures and music. The “Y” will begin Sunday, November the twenty-fourth and is to continue the work through the year. (Continued on Page 6)

VOWLES SPEAKS TO VOLUNTEERS
German Missionary Furnishes Dr. Guy R. Vowles His Subject On Sunday
MEET IN FACULTY ROOM
Bases Talk On Autobiography Of Albert Schweizer

Dr. Vowles was the speaker for the Student Volunteers, Sunday afternoon, Nov. 24, in the faculty room of Chambers building, his subject being the life and work of Albert Schweizer. The meeting was opened with a short devotional led by Robert Wilson, after which the meeting was turned over to Dr. Vowles. The speaker used as his authority the Autobiography of Albert Schweizer, having two copies from the College Library, one in German, the other a translation into English. Albert Schweizer was born in German Alsace, and was thus practically bilingual, being able to use French with practically the same ease as German, which, however, he considers his native tongue. At the age of five his father made Schweizer learn piano, and at eight, the organ. His father was a pastor, and his grandfather an able organist, while his mother was the daughter of a pastor. Schweizer has kept up his music all his life, although at the time he went to Africa he was determined to give up the organ, because he thought he could not take it with him, and was not to be turned from his purpose because of his music. The way was opened, however, for him to take his organ with him, and in Africa he was able to do much work with his music. On numerous occasions, when funds were badly needed, he has been able to meet the need by giving concerts, or other work in connection with his music. His numerous books have also contributed to keep him financially stable. He has written a life of Bach, and made a very complex edition of the great composer's works. His books also have been written on the care of organs, and religious and philosophical themes. Albert Schweizer was thirty when he decided to become a missionary doctor. This was not a sudden decision, as many think, but the outgrowth of a philosophy of life which he had always had. During his University days he had shown an interest in history, philosophy and natural science. He determined to be a doctor, because he wanted to preach to the people more than by just talking.

CINEMATIC COMMENTS
DAVIDSON THEATRE
Wednesday and Thursday, Nov. 27 & 28
THE MELODY LINGERS ON
A movie rent with the heartaches and complications of war. The cast includes Josephine Hutchinson, George Houston, Mona Barrie, and others.
Friday and Saturday, Nov. 29 and 30
IN OLD KENTUCKY
This is Will Rogers’ last picture and one of the best features to date, handing out a laugh a minute, against a track background. Dorothy Wilson, Louis Henry, Russell Hardie, and Bill Robinson, the colored tap-dancer, top the support.Dec. 2 IN PERSON This is Ginger Rogers’ first picture where she is not starred as a musical comedy headliner. George Brent stars with her. There might be a song and a light fantastic or three.

Tuesday, Dec. 3 CORONADO A musical comedy with Johnny Downs, Betty Burgess, Alice White, Jack Hale, and Eddie Duchin and his orchestra.

Commencement Invitations Fraternity Publications 1143 E. FOURTH ST. Lamont Brown Fine Printing QUEEN CITY PRINTING CO. Representatives Visiting Cards Personal and Fraternity Stationery CHARLOTTE, N. C. R. P. Morrow

WOOD LECTURES Physics Professor Addresses Fraternity On The Subject Of Inertia Prof. W. W. Wood spoke on “Inertia and Names of Inertia,” at a meeting of Sigma Pi Sigma, honorary physics fraternity, on Nov. 25, last Monday night. Wood first defined the sub-division of dynamics and force. He then discussed the first two laws of motion and explained what is meant by inertia and units of measure of inertia. The definition of inertia, why it was so called, and Newton's laws were discussed. The talk was closed with his giving an example composed of two methods of measuring inertia with demonstrations.

Sigma Pi Sigma was founded here at Davidson 14 years ago. At present, there are twenty-nine chapters, two of the most outstanding being at the University of Chicago and Purdue University. Membership is open to any upperclassman who has completed three semesters of Physics and obtained excellent grades in that subject. Members of the faculty belonging to Sigma Pi Sigma are: Dr. J. I. Douglas, Dr. J. M. Douglas, Prof. W. H. Fulcher, Prof. W. N. Mebane, and Prof. W. W. Wood.

Eumenean Society Installs Officers Second Term Officers Are Initiated; Five Men Admitted As Members At a recent meeting of the Eumenean Society, new officers were inaugurated, and five new members were accepted. The Society divides each year into three terms and elects officers for each term. The newly elected officers for the second term are as follows: Joe Dees, President; Dickson Lindley, Vice-President; and Bill Yelverton, Secretary-Treasurer. The program was featured by an inaugural address by President Dees. His address was followed by the reading of papers by five men seeking admission into the society, and these men were accepted as members. This was in accordance with a custom recently adopted by the Society for acceptance into membership—that of reading an original paper before the Society on any subject the applicant might select.

Magazine Publishes Article Edited By Davidson Alumnus Warton, '27, Writes On “Who Is The Republican Favorite For President?” COL. KNOX LEADS POLL Warton, As Senior, Edits Prize-Winning Annual Liberty Magazine for November 23, 1935, carried an article by Don Warton, '27, entitled “Who is the Republican Favorite for President.” This article was the result of a poll taken by Liberty to determine who was favored by the Republican newspapers to receive the nomination in 1936. These papers were asked to make a prediction and to give their preference. Of the 1,108 replies received, there were close to 700 votes on each of the questions. Colonel Frank Knox led the line-up, with 221 papers voting that he would be the nominee and 189 preferring him. Senator Borah was second with 149 papers thinking that he would be the nominee and 106 listing him as their preference. Herbert Hoover ran third with 97 thinking that he would be the probable nominee and 74 preferring him. These three leaders were followed by others who some papers either preferred or thought would be the probable nominee. This poll was conducted by writing to editors of newspapers, which were listed as Republican, independent, or had Republican leanings. In the South, there were no Republican papers, but Democratic papers were asked who they favored.

Honorary Chemical Fraternity Meets Gamma Sigma Epsilon, honorary chemical fraternity, held its regular meeting Monday night, November 18, at nine o'clock. The program for this meeting consisted of talks made by newly elected members. A paper on “Dynamite” was given by Roy Bigham. The methods of manufacture of the various types of explosives were discussed, as well as the properties of dynamite. Harris Bradley read a paper on “No Suitable War Gas.” He told of the unsuitability of the numerous gases for warfare, which despite their toxicity lack many of the necessary characteristics for effective use.

Local Boy Scouts To Get Clubhouse Davidson Alumnus And Faculty Members Donate Funds Toward Building Last Friday night in the Social Center, an important meeting of students and others interested in Boy Scout work was held. The following boys, along with twenty-five town scouts, were present: Ernest Dooley, Archer Henry, Cutchin, Fred Stair, Locke White, Cage Brewer, H. T. McLean, H. L. Smith, J. D. Craver, M. H. Lillard, and Harman Woodward. Woodward is in charge of the work. The purpose of the meeting was to discuss the building of a clubhouse on the High School campus for a meeting place for the Davidson Scouts and Hi-Y Club. A Davidson Alumnus has donated one hundred and fifty dollars for a starter and the college faculty has pledged the additional amount. The entire project will cost a little over three hundred dollars. Local scouts are to collect the money. One side of the building is to be devoted to a meeting room while the other side is to be used for manual training. The next meeting will be held Wednesday night at seven-thirty P.M. and all interested in boys' work are cordially invited. At this time, a building committee will be appointed which will let the contract and make other building arrangements. The need for a fixed meeting place and a workshop for the Davidson town boys has long been felt, but it was only through the beneficent gift of a Davidson Alumnus that the hope of the Boy Scouts and the Hi-Y Club has finally been realized. Through the cooperation of the town’s merchants, the project will cost comparatively little.

Dr. R. E. Speer To Give Ott’s Lectures Series Starting With Vespers (Continued from Page 1) These lectures, and similar series of lectures in years past, were endowed by the Rev. J. M. P. Otts in 1893. The founder delivered the first series of lectures himself in this year. Succeeding speakers have been the Rev. R. L. Dabney, the Rev. J. B. Shearer, the Rev. Walter W. Moore, the Rev. Harris E. Kirk, and the Rev. Clarence E. Macartney. The first three series were printed after their delivery here and attracted considerable attention and interest outside the college. Early in the week, it was reported that those classes scheduled for the second period on Monday and the third period on Tuesday and Wednesday, which regularly meet between ten-forty and eleven-thirty-five, would be cancelled for the first three days of next week. This will extend the time of the chapel hour from twenty-five minutes to one hour and twenty minutes.

J. O. JONES, Inc. Come In This Week For A Look At A New Shipment Of Fine, Two Trousers Students Suits You'll Like Our New Models $22.50 to $30.00 2 Trousers J. O. JONES, Inc.