THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 20, 1935

Vesper Speaker Discusses Religious Ideas Of Students

John Howard, Columbia Seminary Student, Speaks At Vesper Services

Last Sunday’s vesper service was presented by a deputation composed of John Howard, speaker, and a quartet made up of
James Bradley, bass; John Talmadge, baritone; Bob Dupree, second tenor, and John Cotts, first tenor, from Columbia Seminary, Decatur, Ga.
After a hymn, and a prayer by Sid March, the vocal quartet presented two numbers, “Take Time To Be Holy”
and “The Riches of Love in Christ Jesus.”

Mr. John Howard, an alumnus of Davidson College, began his talk by reconstructing a picture of the campus religious attitude
in his day. In connection with the attitude of the students, the speaker centered his attention on the always-prevalent “bull
sessions.”

“I have found that, sooner or later, the topic of discussion leads to two main subjects—women and religion—subjects of which
we are most ignorant. The usual ‘bull session,’ as far as the subject of religion goes, starts by a tar-and-feathering
of the last ‘Y’ speaker, an attack on compulsory church, or a discussion of hypocritical church members, creeds, preachers, or
comparative religion. Always after such discussions a skepticism rankles in the heart of the student and he feels that everything
concerning religion is out of date. The living Christ is always in our midst, daring us to challenge Him. Our
modern learning does not compare with His great eternal truths. For a true education, we should learn to know Jesus.

“Would you want Jesus on the campus with you? Would you want Him with you in your dormitory life, at
your ‘bull sessions,’ in your fraternity, and in all your activities? No, I’m afraid He would seem out of date.
But the truth is, He is so far ahead of us that He is out of date. After all, our
opinion of Christ is the real estimate of our attitude toward the Christian religion. Every day, in some of our
deeds, we crucify Christ, although in a way differing from that in Bible times.”

Mr. Howard then continued with a personal reference: “When I was on this campus I had a similar attitude, to
some extent. I hated the name of preacher, and I had no idea of ever being one, although I did
try to live for Jesus Christ. Nevertheless, I did become a preacher. There may be some who poke fun at
preaching, but we need to bow to Jesus Christ only. He invites you, middle ground.”

After a number, “Shall I Crucify My Saviour?” by the quartet, Dr. C. M. Richards dismissed the service with the
benediction. Other members of the Columbia Seminary delegation were Dr. P. H. Carmichael, professor of Bible and Religious Education, who
spoke at the morning and evening church services, and J. K. Parker, who addressed the Student Volunteer Group.

Math Profs To Attend Convention In Atlanta

Professors J. M. Douglas, H. E. Fulcher, W. G. McGavock, W. N. Mebane, and O. J. Thies will journey together
to Atlanta on Friday, March 22, to attend a meeting of the Georgia Academy of Sciences, to be held at
Agnes Scott College for Women on March 22 and 23. The convention will consist of a joint meeting of the
National Mathematics Association, the American Physical Society, and the Georgia Society of the American Chemical Association.

Professors Mebane and McGavock will attend the meeting of the Mathematics Association; Dr. Douglas and Professor Fulcher will attend the
meeting of the Physical Society, while Professor Thies will attend the meeting of the Chemical Association. Dr. Compton, famous physicist
of the University of Chicago, will address the American Physical Society, taking as his subject, “Cosmic Rays.” Dr. Williams, of
the University of Pittsburgh, will be the guest speaker at the meeting of the National Mathematics Association. The five professors
will leave the campus Friday morning, and will return to Davidson either late Saturday night or Sunday morning.

Sophomores Continue Editorial Managership

Continuing the policy inaugurated last week, this issue of The Davidsonian goes to press under the supervision of the Sophomore
members of the staff. The efficiency with which they perform these managerial duties will in a large measure govern the
selection of managing editors for the coming year.

Sophomores and their various duties are shown below. The duties will vary from week to week.

Assignment editors: Howell Overton and Daymond Turner.
First Page: Kenneth Fryfogle and Harold Sugg.
Third Page: Ralph McClelland and John Winn.
Sports Page: Jack Branch and Harry Kuykendall.
Fifth Page: Bob Lafferty and Jim Morton.
Sixth Page: Daymond Turner and Howell Overton.

Williams Resigns From NRA Board

Noted Davidson Alumnus Finishes Work As Government Administrator

A short while ago the President of these United States sat down in his office to dictate a letter. Laying
aside all the formality which business of state usually demands, he opened the letter with the familiar greeting: “My Dear
Clay.” The subject of the letter was the final dismissal of S. Clay Williams from one of the highest and
most influential posts under what is called the new administration, the post of Administrator of the National Recovery Administration. It
expressed the sincere regret of the President at the loss of an able subordinate and his gratitude for the service
rendered to the country.

And so S. Clay Williams returns to his native state, North Carolina, to take up his own private business where
he left off last fall. Davidson College has a special interest in the career of Clay Williams because he was
born in Mooresville and spent four years of his preparation for life on this campus. When he graduated in 1905
he had gained the rare distinction of becoming a member of both Phi Beta Kappa and Omicron Delta Kappa. That
alone is adequate evidence of a well-rounded period of college activity. He continued his studies at the law school of
the University of Virginia and soon launched a successful law career. Eventually he became an executive of the R. J.
Reynolds Tobacco Company.

After General Hugh S. Johnson had firmly established the NRA as a basic part of this country’s business set-up, he
retired, leaving the NRA more or less in its original form. President Roosevelt wanted the NRA to become a permanent
part of the government, and he needed a shrewd businessman, familiar with all business trends and problems, to take charge
of it, mold it into its permanent form, and iron out its wrinkles. For this purpose he chose Clay Williams
for the momentous task of constructing what may turn out to be a new department of the national government. Mr.
Williams accepted on the condition that he might be allowed to return to his business as soon as his immediate
task was accomplished. For the past several months he has sacrificed his own interests to work for his country. The
work was hard, but

Our Fine Materials and Expert Workmanship Make BUFF The Shoe Shop For Every College Man.

BUFF SHOE SHOP
DAVIDSON, N. C.

“DRUGS” “SUNDRIES”
A Complete Drug Store
“Make Our Store Your Store”
Reliable Prescription Druggist
White Drug Co.
“SODAS” “PRESCRIPTIONS”

Among the GREEKS

BETA THETA PI
The Phi Alpha had election of officers for the coming year at the chapter meeting last Thursday. The new officers
are as follows: Cole Windham, president; Tom Ross, vice-president; Moir Hall, recorder; E. C. Johnson, treasurer; John Winn, secretary, and
W. A. Coffin, Pan-Hellenic representative. A feed was also given last Sunday night.

PI KAPPA ALPHA
Visiting alumni as guests of the Beta Chapter last weekend were Jim Neal, Marion, and Barney Sherrill.

KAPPA ALPHA
Elected as officers in the Sigma Chapter for the coming year are: Downie, president; Harvey McConnel, vice-president; Scotty McLeod, secretary,
and R. L. Harris, Pan-Hellenic representative. Attending the dances the past weekend were two alumni, Bill Walser of Charlotte, and
Jeff Robbins of Chester. Many of the brothers enjoyed a feed Sunday night.

SIGMA ALPHA EPSILON
The Theta Chapter entertained their guests of the weekend at a banquet given at the Wooden Bowl in Charlotte Saturday
night. Among the visitors were David Allen and John Tate of N. C. Xi, at Chapel Hill; Skip Brown and
Billy Ravenel, Davidson. Ed Armfield presided as toastmaster, and everyone was highly entertained by the impromptu speeches. Brother George Matthis
attended the Co-ed Ball at Duke last weekend.

KAPPA SIGMA
Two newly-initiated men into the Delta Chapter are Harry Frampton, Hartsville, S. C., and Hector McGeachy, Fayetteville. Chas. Rose of
Fayetteville was a visitor over the weekend.

PI KAPPA PHI
Mrs. P. Y. Arrowsmith was an enjoyable guest of the Epsilon Chapter recently. Brothers Everett Otey and Red Stewart were
up for the dances. Last Sunday night a feed was given and attended by many of the brothers.

PHI GAMMA DELTA
Bill Monroe of Fayetteville was a guest of the Delta Kappa Chapter recently. Brothers Caleb West andJ. B. Goslen went
to Bennettsville, S.C., recently. A very enjoyable feed and sing was given Sunday night.

PHI DELTA THETA
Ben Barnes, Asheville, visited the Gamma Chapter while attending the Junior dances. A feed was held Sunday night, March 17.

SIGMA PHI EPSILON
Recluse Joseph Hubbard Powell condescended to remain on the campus for the past few days at the request of college
authorities but will resume his social activities in the near future. William L. Phillips, grand secretary, and a founder of
Sigma Phi Epsilon, was a recent visitor at the lodge. A feed was given in his honor by the Epsilon
Chapter. Charley Gold, an alumnus of Rutherfordton, attended the dances and visited the local chapter.

He feels that now he has accomplished all that he can. The time has come for a permanent administrator to
take over the NRA and devote his entire interests to its management. Therefore, Mr. Williams leaves a job well done
and sends his resignation to the President, who accepts it regretfully, expressing his personal respect in the familiar salutation, “My
Dear Clay.” The NRA may endure, or it may fade.

Wednesday and Thursday
Walter Connolly in
F. Cather Brown DETECTIVE
with Paul Lukas and Gertrude Michael

Friday and Saturday
TIM McCOY in “The Westerner”

Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday
A breathless story of the lives and loves of the Devil Dogs of the Highways... the Radio Patrol!
Fred MacMurray, Ann Sheridan, Sir Guy Standing, William Frawley

STATE THEATRE
ALUMNI JOURNAL ISSUE 13 READY
Grier Martin, Alumni Secretary, Writes Article Concerning Founder’s Day

The fourth issue of the Alumni Journal will be off the press by the end of this week and will
be immediately distributed to the alumni of the college. This issue will have a cover design similar to the last
publication; it is a three-color arrangement with a picture of the college well. A smaller issue will come from the
press this month, having been cut down to about twenty pages. The alumni office expects to send out about five
thousand copies. Grier Martin has written the leading article for this issue. It is a story of Founder's Day, which
will be celebrated on the Davidson campus on April 9, with a feature address by the Hon. Cameron Morrison, former
governor of North Carolina. Other articles of interest to the students as well as alumni will be on plans for
commencement in June, articles on the student body, faculty, and a few personal articles on the alumni. This issue will
be the first of Volume II. It is the fourth publication of the Alumni Journal; the next will be out
in May. The Alumni Committee, when they began the publication of the Journal, agreed to issue five installments of the
Journal, and then decide whether it will continue or not.

Yow! Appears Amid Hisses and Cheers
Robert Gregory, Humorous Junior, Submits Winning Joke In Gag Contest

By the time this paper has appeared, the new issue of The Yow, College humor magazine, will be in the
hands of the students, if the men in the post office did not split their sides laughing. As the students
will probably notice, the new issue has an attractive new cover drawn by Marsh Callaway, an artistic young freshman. In
the gag contest which The Yow! ran recently, Robert Gregory contributed the winning joke. He was awarded a carton of
Life Savers by the editor. Twenty-five men submitted over a hundred jokes; however, all of these will not be printed
in this issue. Running the winning joke a close race were the two following:

“I started to Charlotte, I got on the wrong route; They put me in a coffee pot, And boiled me
out the spout.” (Actual Contribution.)

The other joke that ran the winner a close race was:
“Who was that lady I seen you with last night?”
“That was no lady, that was my wife.”

Purnell, one of the managing editors, has requested that his name be dropped from the staff, as other pressing duties
made him unable to do any work on this publication; therefore, he will not be eligible in the election for
editor this spring. Be that as it may, S. Clay Williams has served his country in time of need, and
Davidson College may well say, “My Dear Clay, we are proud of you.”

BROADWAY THEATRE
Take Advantage of Our NEW LOW PRICES
Bargain Matinee Daily 11 A.M. to 1 P.M. 20c
1 P.M. to 6 P.M. 25c
6 P.M. to Closing
Balcony 25c
Orchestra 35c

MON.-TUE.-WED. MAR. 25, 26, 27
WOMAN IN RED
GENE RAYMOND
GENEVIEVE TOBIN

THURS.-FRI.-SAT. MAR. 28, 29, 30
THE WHITE COCKATOO
JEAN MUIR
RICARDO CORTEZ

Around Town
The altitude of Davidson is 826 feet above sea level. When the United States Geodetic Survey some years ago placed
a brass tablet on the southwest corner of the church, the altitude was not indicated. This has now been filled
in. The exact figure is 826.002 feet.

Sunday afternoon Prof. J. C. Pfohl gave an organ recital at Catawba College, Salisbury. Professor Pfohl will also participate in
the programs of the North Carolina Federation of Music Clubs April 4, 5, and 6 at Winston-Salem.

The Davidson Civic Club held its March meeting at the Civic Hall Tuesday afternoon, Mrs. W. R. Grey, the president,
presiding. Reports of various committees were presented. The club sponsors the annual “clean-up day,” as well as other projects for
the beautification of the town.

A mass meeting of the citizens of Davidson will be held at the mayor's office March 29 to nominate a
slate for town officials, mayor, and councilmen. The election will be held in May. Prof. W. W. Wood is at
present a member of the council.

A Raleigh dispatch states that Senator Bell introduced a bill to amend the charter of the town of Davidson and
to increase the jurisdiction of the mayor’s court. Under the present law, the court is limited to misdemeanors and has
power to impose fines of not more than $50 and jail sentences of 30 days or less. The new law
would increase these figures to $100 and 60 days, respectively.

Mrs. John Rhett and her guest, Mrs. George Goodrich, of Bedford, Penn., are visiting at the home of Mrs. Rhett's
sister, Mrs. Black, in Florida. On their return trip, they will also visit friends in Spartanburg and in Fort Benning.

Prof. and Mrs. Lewis Schenck entertained the Thelemite Club Friday night at the home of Mrs. N. T. Smith. Dr.
C. K. Brown was in charge of the program, which consisted of Irish songs and a talk on Irish customs
by Professor Porter.

“Y” Students Active In Come Clean Campaign
The deputation department of the Davidson Y. M. C. A. has been quite busy during the past week. The following
men have spoken in several schools of the county, at various times, on the Come Clean Campaign which is being
conducted with the cooperation of the Charlotte Y. M. C. A.: Audley Gammon, Harvey Glass, Cameron Deans, and Kenneth Scott.

On Sunday morning, March 17, Audley Gammon spoke at the Sherrill’s Ford Presbyterian Church. On Sunday afternoon, Walter Dixon spoke
to a group of older boys at the Charlotte Y. M. C. A., while at the same time Tommy Phifer
spoke to a group of younger boys.

The Book-Lovers Club held its regular meeting Friday afternoon at the home of Mrs. J. R. Withers. Mrs. W. P.
Cumming’s interesting paper was entitled: “The Matchless Value of the Thames.” Miss Agnes Douglas and Mrs. Thomas Shipman were out-of-town
guests.

The Twentieth Century Club met Friday afternoon at the home of Mrs. Myron McGill on Concord Street.

Mrs. S. S. Minault gave an informal tea Friday afternoon in honor of her mother, Mrs. Mills of Nelsonville, Ohio,
who is spending several weeks in Davidson.

Mr. and Mrs. Leon Gooch of Chapel Hill announce the birth of a daughter, Nancy Leonora, Sunday, March 3. Mrs.
Gooch is a daughter of Prof. and Mrs. F. K. Fleagle.

Sunday afternoon at the Hope Valley Country Club of Durham, former Rhodes Scholars in this vicinity and their wives gathered
at a dinner in honor of Mr. and Mrs. C. K. Allen of Oxford University. Mr. Allen, “Warden of Rhodes
House,” supervises the operation of the Rhodes Scholarships. In connection with his tour of the United States, reunions of former
Rhodes Scholars are held at various centers. Dr. and Mrs. Vowles were among the twenty who assembled at Durham.

Spring SOCKS 30c
Interwoven socks in both plain and fancy patterns. You'll find an abundance of clocks this year, too. 3 pairs for
$1.00.
Men’s Shop—Street Floor

Spring TIES 95c
Smart spring ties, well made, and in the very newest of the colors that fashion dictates for spring.

SHIRTS $1.50
The finishing touch for the well-groomed man... the tailored-fitting shirts. That's what you get when you choose a Reigel shirt.
