THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 20, 1935

FACULTY RETALIATES WITH WIN OVER VARSITY

In the Field of Sports

VARSITY AND FROSH CINDERMEN ENGAGE DEACONS SATURDAY

GRAPPLERS DEPART

Charlie Fort and Leroy Blackwelder, captain and captain-elect of the Davidson wrestling team, left today for Lehigh University where they
will compete in the national mat tourney. These are two worthy representatives of Coach Unger’s state champions. Neither of them
has lost a match this season, and the tougher the opponent the better they like it.

SENIORS ARE VICTORIOUS

Glasgow And Potter Score Decisive Wins For Fourth Year Class

SIX WINNERS CROWNED

Blackwelder, Alexander, Squires, And McFadyen Take Other Bouts

Exponents of the pugilistic art at Davidson stepped into the limelight last week when the annual boxing matches, the only
official fistic events of the year, took place in the local gym. Boxing fans had a real treat, witnessing one
knockout and several very close bouts. The Senior class won the inter-class competition, points being awarded five for entering, 15
for reaching finals, and 25 for winning the championship in any bracket. Seniors led with 105 points, followed by freshmen
with 65, juniors 50, and sophomores 35.

In the 130-pound class, Duke Glasgow scored the only knockout of the tournament, as they demonstrated the long and short
of boxing. In the finals, one of the best matches of the day, Glasgow defeated Harrison Isler, freshman.

J. B. Ritchie won over Murray Mack and Jack Alexander defeated Jim Gilbert in the preliminaries of the 140-pound class.
In the finals, Alexander won over Ritchie.

Probably the closest bout of all was between Graham Squires and Al Cade, the only two aspirants to the title
of 150-pound champion. Squires finally won after a fast and even fight.

Howard McFadyen won over Fritz Byerly, senior, in the 160-pound class, and George Mathis, freshman, was defeated by Leroy Blackwelder
in the 170-pound bracket.

In the light-heavyweight class, Murphey Smith bowed to A. J. Potter, both of the Senior class.

The interest of spectators ran high during the meet, which ended in the crowning of six champions.

Coach Unger has been particularly careful in training Fort and Blackwelder during the past few days, and now they are
in as near perfect condition as possible. This, of course, is necessary for them to be able to tackle effectively
the formidable opposition that will be offered in the national go. They will both be meeting, for the first time
this season, men who weigh practically the same as they do, so those gentlemen in the other corner had better
watch their shoulders when one of these Wildcats meets them on the mat.

TENNIS CHAMP

Carlyle Lewis stepped into the ranks of orchid receivers by surviving four rounds of the spring tennis tournament, emerging with
the championship. He is only a junior, but he can wield racquets with the best. His strokes are well formed
and accurately executed. He was somewhat unsteady at times during the recent tourney, but he always managed to pull out
of the pinches before it was too late. By virtue of his triumph in the spring play-off he becomes automatically
No. 4 man on the net team, and he has proved himself capable by the improved form displayed this season
over that of last year. The other five members of the team as selected by this tournament are: Tommy Phifer,
Carlyle’s finals opponent, Dudley Elvery, Martin Barnett, George Hornbeck, and Jake Morrow. Three of these five are members of the
Junior class, which practically makes it an all-junior team.

DIAMOND CHATTER

All over the country the great American game is getting under way. The old “diamond chatter” can be heard from
all sides, and everybody is wondering just who's going to have what. We hear from the Wildcats’ lair that things
are looking up. Coach Laird seems to have the men who can handle the horsehide both at the plate and
in the field. Jim Morgan, Johnny Mackorell, Floyd Bumgarner, and Teal Rogers, four of the leading sluggers last season, are
on hand for the 1935 session and it looks like they can still hit that ole rock. By the way,
a little rumor-spreading bird tells me that a certain member of the Wildcat baseball squad has been offered a very
nice contract to play for some big league club. He is a very modest fellow, however, and doesn’t wish to
have his name revealed right now in this connection.

TRACKSTERS BEGIN

Saturday afternoon the varsity and freshman track teams will display, for the first time this spring, their full forces. The
respective teams from Wake Forest will oppose the Davidson clubs, and there should be some interesting competition during the afternoon.
Earl Frazier, although he isn’t expected to have such tough opposition Saturday, will furnish good entertainment. John Lee always scales
the bar in a spectacular fashion, and there will be others who can hold your attention while they perform.

Sigma Delta Psi Is Choosing New Men

Large Group Of Men Enter Initial Trials

Davidson's prospective cindermen were active the greater part of last week with Sigma Delta Psi and decathlon tryouts. The tryouts
were helpful to the track coaches in that it gave them good insight into the new and fairly old material.
A large number of upperclassmen took part and about thirty promising freshmen passed off events for membership in Sigma Delta
Psi. Most of those who took part are members or candidates for the track team this year. The coaching staff
is pointing toward the first meet with Wake Forest on March 23 and have built a well-rounded aggregation around the
few lettermen who have returned. The freshmen begin their season with Charlotte High School.

The events and the qualifications for Sigma Delta Psi membership are as follows: 100-yard dash, 11.6 seconds; 120 low hurdles,
16 seconds; mile run, 6 minutes; high jump, 5 feet; shot put, according to weight; broad jump, 17 feet; hand
spring; baseball throw, 250 feet, or javelin, 130 feet; swim, 100 yards, 1:45; fence vault; rope climb, 8 3/5 seconds;
football punt, 40 yards; good posture.

Intramural Track Run Off In Decathlon Style

This year the intramural track competition was run off in a novel manner, that of a decathlon. The contest was
conducted on a basis of points. There were fourteen events out of which a contestant could choose any ten. In
the event that a contestant bettered the mark set for qualification, he received a proportionate number of additional points. In
the class competition, the juniors won first place with a total of 850 points, while the seniors were in second
place with 786 points. The sophomores accumulated 601½ points and the freshmen brought up the rear with 575½ points.

In the individual scoring, Earl Frazier easily won with 377½ points (Davidson's one-man track team accumulated nearly half the juniors’
grand total). Walter Dickson was second for the Centennials, with 250½ points, while Fritz Byerly of the Senior class was
third with 183¼ points. There were 50 men who participated in the meet.

Basketball Managers Elected For Next Year

In the recent elections for basketball managers, Bill Archer of North Carolina was elected Senior Manager, and R. P. Morrow
of West Point, Georgia, was elected Junior Manager. Jim Morgan was elected Captain of the team for the past year.
Up until this point there had been no Captain. Jim Morgan and Charles Harris had been alternating all during the
season and finally Morgan was elected to represent the basketball team in the annual. Junior Managers will be elected sometime
in the near future.

On account of the lack of attendance at the two recent Faculty vs. Varsity games, the funds were not sufficient
to buy sweaters for the men who won their letters. In spite of this unfortunate occurrence, the boys appreciate the
co-operation of those who did attend.

Morrow and Archer have both served in the capacity of assistant managers for the past three years and have been
awarded managerships for their diligent and faithful service. These men will accompany their respective teams on trips next winter and
will be rewarded with a varsity “D”. Morrow succeeds Bill Ravenal of Charleston, S. C. and Archer succeeds Don Bailey
of Rock Hill.

TRACK TRYOUTS BEING RUN OFF

Varsity And Freshmen Squads Being Chosen For Wake Forest Meet

Tryouts for positions on the varsity and freshman track squads are now in process in an endeavor to find those
men that are most suited to take the trip to Wake Forest. The trip will be made March 23. Twenty-four
members will make the trip as members of the varsity while freshmen willCompose the freshman track team that will represent
Wake Forest. On the track schedule for the coming season are four trips to schools in the Carolinas and a
trip to Tennessee. Davidson is rated to come out the victor in the majority of the track meets. The hardest
and best-attended meet will be the State meet, which comes on the eleventh of May.

The schedule as it now appears is:
March 23—Wake Forest, there.
March 27—Furman, here.
April 6—Richmond, there.
April 13—Tennessee, there.
April 20—V.P.I., here.
May 4—Duke, here.
May 11—State Meet.

Forty Men Report For Frosh Baseball Drills

Freshman baseball practice started last Thursday, March 14, with the first batting and infield practice on the following Saturday. An
erroneous statement in The Davidsonian named Coach Unger as mentor for the frosh squad; this position is held, however, by
Coach Gene McEver. The first game scheduled for this squad is to be played with Gastonia High on April 9.
The following forty men have reported for practice:

Jewell McLaurin, Morrison, Joe Kigjum, Johnnie McQueen, Charlie Brown, Tom Thompson, Doug Neal, Bailey Williams, Bill Keisewetter, E.J. Ganier, G.B.
Ganier, Elwood Moyer, Lawrence Reid, Tom Baskerville, Spencer Goodman, W.M. Morgan, Bill Yelverton, George Gray, Billy Nicholson, Bill Rader, Willard
Dixon, E.F. Clark, "Cab" Calloway, Brent Green, J.N. Hill, D.D. Rhodes, Joe Alderman, Max Brittain, Luke Graham, Bill Crooks, Ray
Johnston, Bill Mansen, Jack Overall, E.S. Parks, J. Rogers, J.W. Tonissen, M.L. Lafferty, Bill Hubbs, "Sky" Cline.

Spring Colds

HEAD THEM OFF... with this amazing aid VICKS in preventing colds... CLEARS "STUFFY" HEADS

VARSITY HOLDS PRACTICE GAME SATURDAY

Lettermen From Last Year Show Good Form In Opening Workouts

SCHEDULE PRESENTED

Eight Of Eighteen Games To Be Played Here

The first practice game of the current baseball season was held by the varsity squad last Saturday afternoon, March 16,
between two teams chosen from among the candidates for membership on the Wildcat team. While this marks the beginning of
the practice games, batting and infield practices have been held for over a week. All the pitchers worked for an
inning or two in Saturday's game, and their performances gave indication of a bright season for Davidson on the diamond
this year.

Candidates for the pitching position are Paul Coble, Charlie Harris, Jack Jenkins (all three last year’s lettermen), Henry Cathey, Lefty
Porter, Billy Ravenel, and George and Jack Summerville. Wingfield looked good behind the plate, while "Woody" Burns and Tom Corbin
both made bids for first base honors. Floyd Bumgarner, on second, and Mackorell, at third, both lettermen from last year’s
team, showed that their place on the team was well earned. Hank Loftin and Bill Quick shared honors as shortstops.
Teal Rogers, Jim Morgan (both lettermen during the '34 season), Johnny Partridge, and Ed Armfield did good work in the
outfield. Others with ambitions to hold down the job of catcher are Burns, John Stewart, and Jim Dixon.

The captain of this year’s team has not yet been chosen, but he will be selected in time to lead
the Wildcat attack upon the Michigan State nine in their game here on Friday, March 29. Of the eighteen games
scheduled for this season, all but two are with our rival "Big Five" schools, and eight of the eighteen will
be played on the campus. The complete varsity schedule follows:

Friday, March 29: Michigan State, here.
Tuesday, April 2: Lenoir-Rhyne, there.
Friday, April 5: Carolina, here.
Saturday, April 6: Carolina, here.
Monday, April 8: Wake Forest, there.
Tuesday, April 9: Wake Forest, there.
Friday, April 12: Duke, here.
Saturday, April 14: Duke, Southern Pines.
Friday, April 19: Duke, there.
Saturday, April 20: Duke, there.
Tuesday, April 23: Carolina, there.
Wednesday, April 24: Carolina, there.
Monday, April 29: State, here.
Tuesday, April 30: State, here.
Wednesday, May 1: Wake Forest, here.
Thursday, May 2: Wake Forest, here.
Friday, May 10: State, there.
Saturday, May 11: State, there.

Next Year’s Y Office Candidates Nominated

Nominations for the officers of the Y.M.C.A. for the coming year have been made, and their names, with one exception,
follow (the exception is Carlton Chapman, who withdrew upon his election to the presidency of the student body):

For president: Harvey Glass, Bob Lindsay, John McMullen, and Archie Shuford.
For vice-president: Wade Boggs, Frank Brown, Walter Dickson, Roger Melton, "Sandy" Moffett, and Kenneth Scott.

Election to "Y" offices will probably be completed this week.

NO SHORT-CUTS IN HANES SHORTS!

Hanes cuts their shorts to the size the label says. They’re big enough to let you bend and reach without
any gripping or ripping!

POPULAR PRICES
LONG WEAR SERVICE
HANES Shirts, Shorts, Union-Suits for Men and Boys
WINSTON-SALEM

Lewis, Phifer, Elvery, Barnett, Hornbeck, And Morrow To Compose Team

TO TAKE TRIP SOUTH

Play First Game With Ohio State Thursday

Carlyle Lewis, junior net ace, broke through the lines with a surprising upset to gain the championship crown in the
annual fall tennis tournament which was played on the local courts Saturday afternoon before an enthusiastic gallery. Lewis came through
by defeating the favored Tommy Phifer, 6-2, 7-5, 6-8, 7-5. His steady drives and high-powered stroking proved to be too
much for Phifer, who played a defensive game throughout. Lewis opened up the set by steady and powerful drives which
seemed as if they were going to last throughout the whole match, but Phifer pulled from behind in the third
set and overtook his opponent for a few games, but Carlyle fell back into his form and took the final
set 7-5, claiming No. 1 position on the tennis team for this year.

From the twenty-one entries of the tournament, six men won places on the tennis team for this spring. These men
are Carlyle Lewis, Tommy Phifer, Dudley Elvery, Martin Barnett, George Hornbeck, and Jake Morrow. Lewis drew a bye in the
first round and defeated Skip Brown in the second by a score of 6-2, 6-3. In the third he easily
defeated Archie McFadyen, 6-0, 6-1. The next round was played with Dudley Elvery, who was the seeded No. 1 man,
and Lewis met some opposition but managed to win the match, 6-2, 10-8, 6-3. The finals were played with Tommy
Phifer with a score of 6-2, 7-5, 6-8, 7-5. Phifer drew a bye in the first round but met Jake
Morrow in the second and overtook him with ease, 6-4, 6-2. The next match was played against Leonard Woodward, whom
he defeated 6-2, 6-0.

(Continued on Page 5, Col. 6)

AT YOUR FINGER TIPS

RCA VICTOR "MAGIC BRAIN" RADIO

With the outstanding RCA VICTOR MAGIC BRAIN RADIO

Now on demonstration in our store... the most amazing and important development in the history of radio. A master mind
in a radio... an uncanny, almost human unit that brings radio performance to practical perfection. You get stations from all
over the world, stations you never heard before. You get tone so life-like that it seems to live and breathe.
You get distance surpassing your most optimistic hopes. And it's all because of the Magic Brain... willing, responsive to your
every wish.

VAN PATTERSON
414 WEST
RCA-Victor Radios, Records, Authorized RCA Repair Service
