THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 20, 1935

FORENSIC CLUB INITIATE FIVE
Wade Boggs Elected President With Wilbur Edwards As Vice President

Phi Epsilon held the Eumenean Literary Society Hall last Friday evening at 7 o'clock. The new initiates were: Wade Boggs, Wilbur Edwards, Paul Harlan, Tyler Port, and Harold Sugg. All of these men were either active members of this year's debating team or have shown an interest in the forensic activities on the campus. At the conclusion of the meeting, the fraternity elected officers for next year, which are as follows: Wade Boggs, president; and Wilbur Edwards, vice-president. Alpha Phi Epsilon is an honorary fraternity recognizing forensic achievement so the initiation took the form of several speeches, harangues, orations, and the other arts that serve to fill the speaker's repertoire.

Release Plans Of Graduation
(Continued from Page One)

and their friends and parents and for the members of the Alumni Association. This reception will take place at 4:30. Also in this same afternoon, the senior class day exercises will be held at 5:30.

Tuesday, June 4: At 10:30 the final graduation exercises will take place. There will be no special speaker for the occasion. The program consists of the giving of diplomas to each individual, honors, and medals. There are at present one hundred and thirty members of the senior class a greater majority of whom are expected to receive diplomas. The first honor man of the senior class will deliver the valedictory address after the presentation of diplomas. The second honor man of the senior class will deliver the salutatory which will be before the presentation of the diplomas in order to welcome the people who gather for the occasion. The Davidson College Band will remain for the entire week of Graduation to furnish music for the various celebrations.

Some of the outstanding medals and awards that will be presented at the giving of the diplomas are the Williams-Banks Biblical Medal, Alumni Association Medal, Sullivan Award, and a second Sullivan Award to an outsider. The Williams-Banks Biblical Medal is presented to the senior who completes the entire Biblical course with the highest grades. The Alumni Association Medal is given to the freshman who has the highest average for the year. The first Sullivan Award is given to the senior who, in the faculty's judgment and in addition to high grades and character, has distinguished himself during his four years at Davidson for unselfish service to others. The second Sullivan Award is given to some friend of the college who has been distinguished for his or her loyalty to Davidson and at the same time has shown unselfish service to fellow man.

Senior Statements Reveal Sentiments
(Continued from Page One)

N. C.; “I have lived to learn; now I must learn to live.”
Edwin Burke Garrett, Jr., Greensboro, N. C.: “I think the friendly spirit at Davidson is the greatest thing here.”
Gee, Felix Otis: “All I have I owe to Davidson College.”
Gordon Lucius Green: “It's been a good vacation and now I am ready for work.”
Peter Dutois Guerrant: “Despite its petty restrictions, if I had my choice to make again, I would pick Davidson.”
George Leslie Gullette: “The finest school for undergraduate work and has the type of boys that I like best.”
William Thomas Hall: “My two years have been a period of enjoyment and learning.”
Kirk-Hanrahan: “I am going to work. I am glad to be graduating but I hate to leave Davidson.”
Jimmie Harper: “I think I am going into business next year. I have spent four happy years at Davidson.”

CARS FOR RENT
Gulf Gas and Oil
M. P. HENDERSON

Charlie Harris: “I don’t know yet what I will do next year, but I certainly do hate to leave the Alma Mater.”
Jack Hellinger: “I’m going to work. It has been a great experience to spend four years at Davidson.”
Richardson Hillier: “I wish I knew what I will do next year; all I can say is that I certainly do hate to leave Davidson.”
Ed Hodge: “I am going to Syracuse University at Syracuse, N. Y. to study for a graduate degree in Chemistry. The past four years have been the most enjoyable ones that I have ever spent.”
Ed Holt: “I am going into business. My years at Davidson have been most pleasant ones.”
Heath Howie: “I don't know yet what I will do next year. Davidson is the finest place I know of and wish that I were coming here instead of leaving.”
Dewey Hutchins: “I am going to coach football next year. I am glad and sorry to be leaving.”
Sid Jetton: “I will be working next year. I don't like to think of leaving Davidson.”
Cy Johnson: “I am going to school next year and will probably study law. I have had a fine time coming back and forth to Davidson for four years.”
W. J. Livington: “I am going to Union Theological Seminary in Richmond. I hope Davidson grows up.”
J. L. McClintock: “I will work in Charlotte. Four years have gone mighty quick.”
B. P. Little: “I will probably study law somewhere. I'd like to stay here and major in Psychology since I have been appointed Queen of May, but I suppose I’d better be pushing on.”
C. C. Lucas: “The value of a college education is not what you put into it; it's what you get out of it.”
J. J. Koenig: “I may go to law school. I'll soon be going where a man can speak his mind without looking behind him.”
J. B. Lee: “I am going to work with the International Harvesting Company, Goldsboro, N. C. It’s been great, but I'm glad to get through.”
I. F. McPhail, of Charlotte, the president of the class of 1935, hopes to find occupation in North Carolina although he has not decided in what field he will work.
L. D. McPhail, Jr., of Charlotte, the former editor of the Yowl, plans to follow in his brother’s footsteps and also seek a job inNorth Carolina. He, also, is undecided as to what field he will lend his talents. J. C. Mackorell, of Miami, Fla., plans to undertake that which he is best fitted for, coaching football. He has no definite plans for the future besides this. His home after graduation will be in Charlotte. Singleton ‘Gus’ Maynard, of Bluefield, W. Va., will study medicine at the University of Virginia after receiving the local sheepskin. T. D. Miller, of Wilson, will undertake to put a crimp in the Reynolds business when he enters the tobacco business in his home town. T. D. Miller, of Mooresville, plans to enter into business in Mooresville. J. R. Morgan: “I can’t say much, but I can do plenty.” F. H. Morris: “What more could I want out of four years of Davidson than the Davidson spirit.” H. T. Morris: “My experience on the Davidson campus and around has been well worthwhile.” C. A. Munroe: “I would like to enter as a freshman and take my four years over again.” W. C. Neill: “It has taken me four years to learn how little I know.” J. H. Ostwalt: “I enjoyed all the activities of my four years.” E. D. Otey: “I hope the rest of my life will be as pleasant as my four years at Davidson.” T. M. Phifer: “Whether in classroom or on athletic field it has been a pleasure.” J. B. Porterfield: “I would hate for the last four years to be taken from me.” A. J. Potter: “It’s over and I’m sorry.” D. G. Monroe, of Fayetteville, will endeavor to become a student of medicine. The school at which he will study has not as yet been decided upon. “Geddie” states that if he changes his mind about medicine, he will start a Nasturtium Farm to carry out his plan to beautify America. Peyton Montgomery, of Reidsville, states that he will become a “promoter of wildcat schemes.” He plans to make his home after his graduation in Peoria, Ill. J. W. Morgan, of Miami, Fla., plans to enter the Union Theological Seminary in Richmond, Va. John Lowrance Newton, of Gainesville, Ga.: “I have learned how to appreciate Davidson in the two years that I have been here and I hate to leave it. I am going to the University of Georgia to study law.” William Leonard Northen, of Sarasota, Fla.: “College life was luscious. If I learn to use a pair of forceps I’ll pull through.” Reginald McGee Porter, Jr., of Waycross, Ga.: “I hate to leave and have spent the most enjoyable four years of my life. I like it better than I will ever like any other place. I am going to Tulane Medical College.” Bob Orr: “Hope to get a job, but can always go back to old Mississippi. Maybe Davidson will win a ball game next year, since I am leaving.” Joseph Hubert Powell, who hails from Navasota, Texas, says “A great little convent.” He is going to Georgia Tech next year. Lawrence Edwin Quarterman from Macon, Ga., says, “He who cherishes a vision, a lofty ideal in his heart, will one day realize it, for, to desire is to obtain; to aspire is to achieve.” William Bee Ravenel, III, says, “I enjoyed it very much, sometimes.” Arnold Black Rhodes, from Rocky Point, N. C., says, “Now, I know what is meant by the presence of the Saints.” Ray Wickliffe Richardson, Jr., who is going to Harvard Law School, says, “Four years associations with men such as Sanders, Windham, and Glasgow will make anybody good looking.” John Adams Carson Robinson: “It’s a fine school.” A. C. Rogers says, “Four years with a swell bunch.” Percy Mims Rogers says, “Davidson is a great school, lots of Davidson's facilities can’t be surpassed, but several changes should be made.” Benjamin Lacy Rose, of Fayetteville, N. C., says, “A good school, but I am glad to get out of it.” Courtney Beaman Ross, Maiden, N. C.: “After four years here, one is led to believe that democracy and character are emphasized at Davidson mostly in words.” Rufus Brown Sanford, Jr.: “I like the school a lot, and am glad I came here—but I'd hate to have it to do over again.” John Luther Shirley, Mt. Pleasant, N. C.: “Davidson has given me the best three years of my life.” John Daniel Siewers, Winston-Salem, N. C.: “I’m glad to be graduating, of course, but I hate to leave Davidson.” Baxter Orr Simpson, Byhalia, Miss.: “The pyramids may crumble, empires may fall, but still I bet my grandsons won't dance at Davidson.” Is applying for a position in the Air Corps. James Hunt Simpson, Athens, Ga.: “I’ve got some good pennants and buckles I'd like to sell somebody.” Plans to affiliate himself with the Belk company of Charlotte after graduation. Robert Hardy Smith, Jr., Mobile, Ala.: “It’s a great life and an impressive experience.” Walter P. Sprunt, Jr., Wilmington, N. C.: “It's been a wonderful four years.” J. C. White: “I can’t think of any way I could have spent four more profitable or enjoyable years.” J. W. White: “I’m glad I will always be near Davidson.” F. A. Whitney: “Why can’t this life go on forever.” George Wingfield: “I hate to think about not playing in any more Davidson games.” J. R. Withers: “If Davidson had a Kindergarten I would have started then.” G. R. Wood: “I hope some day dramatics will be as highly subsidized here as music.” Wood, T. F.: “It is finished.” B. W. Wyche: “I won't be long before I find out if I have been seasoned for life’s work.” Hugh Yelverton: “I have no statement now but I will be getting plenty.” What a joyous season it’s going to be! A grand season of color, a grand season of model originality, new sport ideas that will express your every whim. Under-Grads for Summer... they've got everything. $95.00 and $99.50 Tate Brown Co. Student’s Dept. Third Floor © 1935, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.