NOTED PIANIST WILL APPEAR HERE ON TUESDAY, FEB. 12

The Davidsonian

ALENODA LU xXx UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

PLANS MADE FOR I.R.C. CONFERENCE ON FEBRUARY 21

Vol. XXII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FEBRUARY 6, 1935 No. 15

THREE PROMOTIONS ARE ANNOUNCED BY R.O.T.C. DEPARTMENT

Potter Promoted To Lieutenant-Colonel, Coit To Major, And Yelverton To Captain

ORDER READ BY BATTE

These Officers To Receive Commissions This Spring

The Reserve Officers Training Corps of Davidson College Wednesday announced the promotion of three of its officers. A. J. Potter
was promoted to the rank of Lieutenant-Colonel, R. T. Coit to Major, and Hugh Yelverton, Jr., to Captain.

“These men have shown their ability both on the drill field and in the classroom,” said Major Rhett, in announcing
their promotion. “Our officers are advanced as a result of their ability, and often it is difficult to make a
choice among several outstanding men,” he said.

The headquarters order which was read at the parade Wednesday by Cadet Captain J. M. Batte, Adjutant, was as follows:
“Under authority conveyed in provisions of A.R. 145-10, the following promotions in the Cadet Corps of the Reserve Officers’ Training
Corps Unit, this institution, are announced: To be Cadet Lieutenant-Colonel—A. J. Potter; to be Cadet Major—R. T. Coit; to be
Cadet Captain—Hugh Yelverton, Jr., by order of the P.M.S.&T., Chas. W. Seifert, Captain—Infantry, Adjutant.”

A. J. Potter, of Barium Springs, was promoted from the rank of Major, which he has held since the opening
of the fall term. He is a member of Phi Delta Theta, social fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, leadership fraternity, Scabbard
and Blade, and Sigma Delta Psi.

R. T. Coit of Richmond, Va., was promoted from the rank of Captain. He is a member of Phi Beta
Kappa, Omicron Delta Kappa, Alpha Phi Epsilon, Scabbard and Blade, Eta Sigma Phi, and Le Cercle Francais. Recently he was
elected as advisor to the Freshman class.

Hugh Yelverton, of Wilson, is a member of Pi Kappa Phi, social fraternity, and Sigma Delta Pi. He is also
the secretary-treasurer of the Pan-Hellenic Council. All of the men are seniors and will receive their commissions this spring.

Quadwranglers Club To Honor Hardin Craig

The Quadwranglers Club will give a reception for Dr. Hardin Craig immediately following his lecture here Friday, February 14th. Major
John T. Rhett, president of the Quadwranglers Club announced the reception which will be held in the club room in
Chambers Building.

Dr. Craig will speak at 7:30 in Chambers Auditorium on the subject “The Opinion of Plenty.” Dr. Craig, who is
a member of the English department of Leland Stanford University, is teaching English at the University of North Carolina during
its winter quarter.

Dr. P. H. Gwynn Attends Meeting In Greensboro

Dr. P. H. Gwynn, professor of Education, was in Greensboro yesterday to attend the meeting of an international society, whose
purpose is the reorganization of the North Carolina State Sunday School Association. Members have been selected from each of the
leading Protestant denominations of the state, and Dr. Gwynn was asked, with Dr. W. L. Lingle, to represent the Presbyterian
group. Dr. Lingle, however, was unable to attend the conference yesterday. At this meeting, the committee discussed its plans for
the creation of a Council of Religious Education to promote closer cooperation among the various denominations in their work with
the young.

HARDIN CRAIG TO LECTURE FEB. 14

Well-Known Lecturer Chooses As His Subject “The Opinion Of Plenty”

Dr. Hardin Craig, well known lecturer, will deliver an address in Chambers Auditorium, Thursday, February 14, at 7:30 P.M. and
has chosen as his subject, “The Opinion of Plenty.” Dr. Craig describes his lecture as a discussion of the function
of learning in the community. This function deals primarily with the phases of life affected by institutions of learning.

The lecturer has contributed to numerous magazines and learned periodicals. He has also done work on several English classics. Dr.
Craig received his degrees at Centre College, Danville, Kentucky, Princeton, New Jersey and Exeter College, Oxford, England. Dr. Hardin Craig
was professor of English at the University of Minnesota from 1910 to 1917, at which time he entered the service
of the United States Army. Later the lecturer became head of the Department of English at the State University of
Iowa. Dr. Craig is now teaching during the winter quarter in the English department of the University of North Carolina
at Chapel Hill.

Other speakers will be secured in continuation of a program to present notables to the Student Body, as a special
fund has been set aside by the College authorities for this purpose. Dr. Shewmake, chairman of the faculty committee on
lecturers, will endeavor to obtain speakers for various departments of the college.

Scientific Motion Pictures To Be Shown To Students

Two scientific motion picture films, “Constitutions and Transformations of the Elements” and “The Magic Key,” will be presented to the
physics and chemistry students, Friday, February 8th, in the Martin Chemistry Building at 7:00 P.M.

“Constitutions and Transformations of the Elements,” a two reel talking picture, released under the auspices of the General Electric Company
to the Davidson chemistry department, will precede the showing of “The Magic Key.” Sir Ernest Rutherford, the well known English
scientist, relates and demonstrates his theories of the elements in the “Constitutions and Transformations of Elements.” A resume of this
motion picture in one General Electric Booklet reads: “This picture was made in England and is of great educational merit.”

“The Magic Key,” an Ethyl-Dow Chemical Company production, deals with the recovery of bromine from sea water. This silent picture
describes the commercial recovery of bromine from the sea, once regarded as a fantasy of science, but which has been
accomplished by chemistry. This new industry is arising from the development of a process by which bromine is removed from
the sea water and converted into commercial bromides. The world’s only manufacturing plant to be constructed on shore for this
purpose was built at Kure Beach, about twenty miles south of Wilmington. The output is being utilized entirely as a
constituent in Ethyl Products, used to improve the anti-knock quality of gasoline.

This enterprise, however, will result in a tremendous increase in the potential production of bromides in the United States, affecting
not only industry and arts but also the national defense, since bromine is an essential element of certain tear gases
used in warfare. The location of the bromine plant at Wilmington, followed an extensive study of geographical conditions. The output
of the plant is approximately 15,000 pounds per day.

Professor O. J. Thies, Jr., of the Chemistry department, viewed this picture in St. Petersburg, Florida, at the convention of
the American Chemical Societies. Professor Thies stated that “The Magic Key” was of educational value as well as offering splendid
entertainment. A motion picture program, consisting of scientific films, will be presented to members of the college who are taking
courses in either chemistry or physics. These films will be shown about every two weeks in the lecture room of
the Chemistry Building.

PIANIST’S CONCERT LAUDED BY NEWSPAPER

American-Trained Artist Offers Nine Compositions In Second Concert Series

BRINKMAN IS PRAISED

Joseph Brinkman Possesses Great Powers As A Pianist

Joseph Brinkman, an entirely American-trained pianist, will present the second concert of the Davidson series on Tuesday, February 12. His
program will be as follows:

Gagliarda ---------------- Galilei-Respighi
Nostalgias --------------- Serrano-Nin
Gigue Sonate Op. 10 No. 3 ------- Beethoven
Prelude, Chorale, and Fugue ------- Franck
Miroirs ------------------ Ravel
Oiseaux tristes
Une barque sur l’ocean
Alborada del gracioso
Mazurka, B minor --------- Chopin
Nocturne, C sharp minor ---- Chopin
Scherzo, C sharp minor ----- Chopin

The New York American said the following of some of the compositions he will play: Poetical insight, combined with technical
virtuosity, marked his performance of three tone pictures by Ravel, the moods ably and artfully differentiated, his fingers fleet and
accurate and pedaling an example of taste and judgment. His interpretation of Chopin's C sharp minor nocturne disclosed an attractive
and sympathetic comprehension of the language of that composer, invested with revealing tonal color and nuance. Mr. Brinkman was enthusiastically
and deservedly applauded.

The Chicago Evening Post states: Mr. Brinkman has the pianistic gift. His fingers find their way naturally over the keyboard
and he brings from the piano a tone rich in quality and capable of a (Continued on Page 6, Col.
3)

I.R.C. MAKES EARLY PLANS TO HANDLE MEET

Rogers, Dubose And Brown To Head Three Important Convention Committees

NEW MEMBERS INITIATED

Otto Nathan Is Speaker For Collegiate Gathering

The International Relations Club held its regular meeting on last Friday evening. At this meeting, about fifteen new members were
initiated into the organization. Talks were delivered before the club by Paul Harlan, Bob Lindsay and Harold Sugg. These talks
related to national affairs of interest to the club as a whole.

Most important of the business discussed was the planning and discussion for the International Relations Conference which is to be
held here on the campus, February twenty-first. The Davidson club will be host at that time to representatives from colleges
and universities over the entire south. Invitations to the conference were sent out several days ago, and replies of acceptance
have already begun to be received. These replies came more especially from clubs in Georgia colleges and universities and the
conference is expected to entertain representatives from a great part of the schools where clubs of this nature have a
place on the campus.

Dr. Otto Nathan, eminent German politician and statesman, will be the principal speaker at the conference. Dr. Nathan is well
qualified for such a conference in that he is well-versed in the national and international affairs of the day. He
first came to this country on leave of absence from his own government in 1930. He was the guest of
the Institute of Economics inWashington during this first visit and later lectured at New York University. His fame (Continued on
Page 6, Col. 4)

AN EDITORIAL
“LAISSEZ-FAIRE AND THE INEVITABLE DANCE”
(The Davidsonian does not necessarily endorse any opinions expressed in this article.)

On the 14th and 15th of December, a great many of us attended a set of Davidson College dances. They
were such “de facto,” if not “de jure.” The fact that an orchestra, a hall, and decorations could be paid
for from the proceeds of ticket sales indicates that the dances were well attended. This set of dances was arranged
and directed by Davidson men. The sponsor was the Sophomore class, in fact, and financed by Davidson men. The affair
was patronized by Davidson College men. Faculty chaperons were in attendance, which is evidence that the Administration shares the writer’s
opinion. As a matter of record, the Student Body of Davidson College has five or six of these dances in
the course of a regular college year. This is not a contention; it’s a fact. Ask the professor of a
first-period class why Saturday morning’s children have that tired feeling. To him, the dance of the night before is as
much a reality as it was to a majority of his class.

One can readily see from the foregoing that the question the Student Policies Union has raised is not whether Davidson
men shall dance. The truth of the matter is that they do—and with the tacit approval of the College—the real
question is where the inevitable dancing shall be done. Those who are emphatically opposed to the Student Policies Union say,
in effect, that dancing is a form of social life which may readily lend itself to abuses of unquestionably harmful
character. This observation is a true one. It is even more liable to be true when dancing is the occasion
for mixed drinking in a city hotel. Dancing can deaden the spiritual life, these observers say. They object to it
on moral grounds. Therefore, the Student Body of Davidson College shall not dance on the property of the Church. Accordingly,
the inevitable dance is shunted off to Charlotte, twenty miles from home. This prohibition of the Church does not solve
the moral problem inherent in dancing. It intensifies it. It is tantamount to a declaration of a “hands-off” policy on
the part of those who have been entrusted with the moral and intellectual lives of 600 or more young men.
It is a kind of moral “laissez-faire.” When the College bars its gates to dancing it says, in substance, “take
your moral problem elsewhere, settle it to suit yourselves.” The problem of dancing is a moral one, to be sure.
But the burden of moral responsibility is on the College authorities. Only through their initiative can dancing be purged of
the abuses which attend it. The only way to clean up dances is to control them, and they can be
controlled at home. Certainly, the authorities can see that their policy has neither prevented nor discouraged Student Body dances. Certainly,
the moral dangers attached to the dancing of Davidson College men will be greater where the functions are virtually uncontrolled.
Certainly, there is a (Continued on Page 6, Col. 5) challenge in these facts.

Davidson Alumnus To Present Band Trophy
Byrd Thompson Crayton, a Davidson alumnus of Charlotte, has recently presented a trophy to be awarded to the member of
the band who shows the most musical improvement this year. The trophy, of silver on a wood base, bears on
the plaque the outline of a lyre and the inscription, with a space for the name of the recipient. The
trophy will be awarded on the basis of musical knowledge, sight reading in band work, and technique, and will be
presented to the winner at commencement. Mr. Crayton, the donor, was, while at Davidson, a member of the band and
glee club for three years. He was also a captain in the R.O.T.C., and manager of the track team.

LENOIR BAND TO OFFER CONCERT
Program To Be Played In Auditorium By State Champions Is Listed Here
The Lenoir High School band, state high school winner, will present a concert in the college auditorium Thursday, February 7.
This concert is independent of the series and there is no admission fee. The program will be as follows:
Florentiner March - Fucik
String Bass Solo Concerto No. 3 - Koussevitsky
Elizabeth Cloninger
Country Gardens - Grainger
Minuet from L’Arlesienne - Bizet
Flute Septet
Under the Cuban Flag - Sousa
Nutcracker Suite - Tschaikowsky
(a) Dragonfly Dance
(b) Dance of the Reed Pipe Players
Hunting Chorus from Der Freischutz
Pilgrim’s Chorus from Lombardi - Verdi
Brass Quartet
Selection “Hall of Fame” - Arr. by Safranek (Potpourri of familiar musical selections)
H. L. Clarke Cornet and Trombone Duet
Sleighride “Troika en Train”
The Star Spangled Banner

The Lenoir High School band comes to Davidson after making four records for the Victor Recording Company Wednesday. This band
is fully equipped and presents a well-balanced program full of variety. All band equipment is carried in the band’s special
truck with the familiar Lenoir seal on the side. Former members of the Lenoir band now belonging to the Davidson
band are Harris Bradley, Richard Mattocks, and J. J. Martin.

FUTURE OF ANNUAL HANGS IN BALANCE DECLARE OFFICIALS
Withdrawal Of Financial Support Seriously Threatens Future Of ‘Quips And Cranks’
PHOTOGRAPHS NEEDED
Publications Board Issues Ultimatum Regarding Yearbook
At the time this article is written, the fate both of this year’s annual, and next year’s hangs in the
balance! For on Tuesday and Wednesday (and possibly Thursday)—the days of the photographer’s last appearance on the campus—the student body's
response to the annual's plea for more pictures is to determine the financial success of the annual now in the
process of being made up, and also the possibility of the continuation of “Quips and Cranks” in the future. Due
to the fact that only approximately two hundred and forty individuals presented themselves before the camera during Mr. Dunbar, the
photographer's, three previous visits, a crisis was recently precipitated in publication circles which forced an immediate and drastic program upon
those connected therewith. The Publications Board, composed of representatives from the three publications, and Mr. Jackson, and Prof. Fleagle issued
dual decrees—one to the effect that the present annual staff would not be permitted to have the photographer back again
this year, and the other, that it was strongly recommended that unless there were a satisfactory number of pictures taken,
the student body would not be allowed to publish “Quips and Cranks” next year. This surprising action was taken for
several reasons: One, that it has been necessary in the past to continue to have the photographer return to the
campus time after time until late spring, which has resulted in considerably delaying the make-up of the annual and has
materially undermined its financial basis. The second, because the extreme dearth of pictures—which has gotten worse this year—prevents the annual
from being sufficiently representative of the student body, and also removes a great portion of its (Continued on Page 6,
Col. 5)

J. L. Douglas To Return To Math Classes Soon
Dr. J. L. Douglas, head of the Mathematics department, has returned home and is expected to resume his duties within
ten days or two weeks. The facts of Dr. Douglas’ recent illness were unduly exaggerated in a recent edition of
The Davidsonian, as his condition was not so serious as was reported. During his illness his classes in mathematics were
divided between Professors W. N. Mebane, W. W. Wood, and W. B. McGavock. Dr. Douglas has long been a member
of the Davidson faculty, having taught the third longest of any professor in the college.

Biographer is another distinction that Dr. Walter L. Lingle, president of Davidson College, may well add to his list of
honors, with the appearance of four of his biographical sketches in the Dictionary of American Biography. The four sketches of
Dr. William S. Plumer, Dr. Richard C. Reed, Dr. David Rice, and Dr. Nathan L. Rice, appeared in Volume XV
of the Dictionary, just recently issued. The dictionary, edited by Dumas Malone, is the outstanding work of its type in
this country, containing a widely varied collection of sketches, from poets to presidents, and from Revere to Ringling. No living
people are included. Published in alphabetical order, the dictionary is now complete through the R’s. Each sketch is written by
an authority, containing the salient facts of the individual life and their interpretation. Dr. Lingle’s writings all deal with prominent
Presbyterian preachers. Each article, from 600 to 1000 words long, may be identified by the familiar “W.L.L.” at the end.
Besides those already published, Dr. Lingle has written three other sketches which have not yet been printed: of Drs. Smyth,
Thomas, and Waddell. The publication date of volumes containing these biographies has not yet been made known, all of them
having been written several years ago. When interviewed on the subject, Dr. Lingle stresses the fact that the work was
“very exacting and meticulous,” requiring “real backing-up.” This he said required a “check and double check” of all material. However,
he explained that he “was glad for the necessity of writing” these sketches. “An essential part of education is to
learn accuracy,” and “writing makes an accurate man” he observed. In conclusion, Dr. Lingle smilingly suggested that “If a fellow
wants a test in accuracy, let him write an encyclopedia article.” Sources of information for these sketches were found mainly
in the Historical Foundation Library at Montreat, the Presbyterian Library in Philadelphia, and the Library of the Union Theological Seminary
in Richmond. An idea of the thoroughness of the search for material may be received from the fact that one
of the sources of a sketch was a family scrapbook in the hands of a Mr. Bryan in Titusville, Pa.
