6 THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 27, 1935

China Is Topic Of Noted Speaker
(Continued from Page 1)

and settled down to our modern days. He recalled the days of the Opium War in which Great Britain not only forced upon China the drug trade much against her will, but succeeded in opening to the world five more treaty ports. When China, soon after the close of this war, showed her resentment toward foreign interference by firing upon ambassadors going to Peking, she aroused the hatred of the world in general, but we should realize that it was only an expression of their fear, misunderstanding, and mistrust of all that the western civilization had done to them. The act is to be condemned, but the cause can hardly be. In retaliation, the English destroyed one of the finest pieces of Oriental architecture and scattered the finest art collections then existing in the world—the royal summer palace. Thus did western civilization triumph over eastern! This type of treatment has continued almost up to the present day, until the recent Nationalist movement has caused the aggressive westerner to be more considerate of his actions. Aggression has been reduced, but by no means obliterated. Professor Wannemaker described an arch at the gate of a public park in the foreign settlement of Shanghai upon which was written “Chinese and Dogs Not Admitted.” Such things as that can hardly produce a friendly feeling between the people of China and other nations. He cited another incident in which British police fired upon a group of Chinese students, killing eleven of them, under conditions which in no way warranted the action. The Boxer Rebellion in more recent times was a result of fear and mistrust of foreigners, stirred up by radicals of the country. It was not an expression of hatred as a national feeling so much as of fear. The people are on the whole very friendly toward foreigners.

In regard to the progress of the Chinese people, Professor Wannemaker said that we see little of it in our papers, but rather find the sensational events and radical movements. Her cities are introducing electric lights, water systems, paving programs, and other improvements. China has 40,000 miles of improved roads, and her educational system is steadily improving; all of these things are marks of western civilization. Of her 460,000,000 people, seventy to eighty per cent are illiterate still, in spite of her advancement in learning, so we should consider her educational handicap when dealing with the nature of China as a whole. Also, we might well remember that when Europe was just beginning its climb to the top, China had a civilization which was the most highly developed on earth. She may be in a backward condition now, but is beginning her comeback. With a few remarks about the schools and colleges of China, Professor Wannemaker showed a series of slides which illustrated the work being done at Lingnan University. These slides, accompanied by his remarks on the educational possibilities among the Chinese, brought his lecture to an end. An unusually large crowd attended the lecture in spite of the heavy rain which came just at its beginning.

Masquers Give Three-Act Play
(Continued from Page 1)

used as a hypodermic needle. Then Harmon Gage, in a very dramatic scene, kills himself. The acting of the cast was excellent and adds glory to the Red and Black Masquers, an honorary society achievement in dramatic art. There was no admission charge. However, the free-will offering that was taken to help defray the expenses of production of the play amounted to over seventeen dollars.

Dr. McBride Confers On Child Labor Laws

Duncan G. MacBride, a graduate of Davidson College, left Richmond for New York City to confer with leaders of the National Child Labor Committee. This conference is to be devoted mainly to securing information and cooperation toward improving the child labor laws of the State of Virginia. Mr. MacBride graduated from Davidson with Phi Beta Kappa honors and is now a senior at Union Theological Seminary in Richmond, Va.

Hart, Schaffner & Marx
CLOTHES FOR SPRING
In Eight Different Models
Come in early for the best selection
J O JONES INC
210 S. TRYON ST.

O. D. K. Convention Held at Cincinnati
(Continued from Page 1)

for the past five years and has made inroads into campuses of mid-western colleges and universities. O. D. K. fraternity has shown substantial growth since its establishment in 1914. Eight new chapters have been inaugurated since their meeting two years ago and other circles are under consideration at this time, stated the Davidson College treasurer. At present, the fraternity contains forty chapters in its organization. One hundred and twenty-five college and university representatives assembled from the forty circles at the conclave in Cincinnati. It was at this eleventh national conference that the fraternity set its eyes to the future, observed Brown. He continued that the delegates endeavored to frame a policy for future activity in circles already established that will tend to equip the campus members of Omicron Delta Kappa society with that attitude of mind and spirit most suited to the social needs of this age. The twelfth biennial conclave is scheduled to meet at Atlanta, Georgia, in 1937. Emory University and Georgia Tech will act as joint hosts to the fraternity on this occasion. The University of Cincinnati, which acted as host for the O. D. K. fraternity convention, is a large municipally controlled and supported institution with an enrollment of approximately ten thousand students. Students in the technical division attend classes one month and work the next. This plan is observed throughout the entire year.

In 1917 the Delta Circle was established at Davidson. This honorary society recognizes men who have attained a high standard of efficiency in collegiate activities and the members help to inspire others to strive for conspicuous attainments along similar lines. It brings together members of the faculty and student leaders for discussion of campus problems. Officers of the Council for the coming convention are as follows: Dean W. L. Sanders, Ohio Wesleyan University, national president; Dr. Guy E. Snavely, Birmingham-Southern College, vice-president; F. L. Jackson, Davidson College; F. W. Shepardson, New York; and R. W. Bishop, University of Cincinnati. K. D. Weeks was elected as an al-ternate to represent the Delta Circle but was unable to attend the group meeting.

Physics Confab Held Last Week
(Continued from Page 3)

Aluminum is being used in the construction of the new two-hundred-inch reflector for the Mount Wilson Observatory. For some time, it has been known that a quartz tube will carry illumination around corners and for great distances with little loss. Dr. Silverman stated that the dreams of the day are that tubes made of this material will extend from the equator to polar regions, conducting tropic light and heat to the inhabitants of less temperate zones. Although he conceded that this conjecture belonged more properly to the realms of fancy, he cited, as examples of scientific possibilities, a number of the commonplace realities of today which were regarded as nothing short of fantastic a quarter of a century ago.

Speaking on “The Cosmic Ray,” Dr. Compton announced several interesting conclusions drawn from his research on this subject. He said that he has definitely concluded that the ray, on striking the surface of the earth, or even in the stratosphere, is corpuscular in nature. This would completely refute the expanding universe theory of its origin, advanced by Le Maitre. The speaker, however, stated he was anxiously awaiting the report of the Byrd Antarctic Expedition before going further. The University of Chicago will offer a course on the “Cosmic Ray” next summer. It is believed that this will be the first institution in the world to offer such a course.

At the business meeting of the Association of Physicists, the group decided to continue its organization, and Dr. H. G. Hoxton, of the University of Virginia, was chosen as its first president; Prof. C. W. Edwards, of Duke University, secretary-treasurer. Dr. Arthur E. Ruark, of the University of North Carolina, who will speak here the latter part of next month, was appointed to represent this state in the committee which is to complete the work of organization. The eight states represented in the Southeastern Association of Physicists are: Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, Florida, Louisiana, Tennessee, and Kentucky.

Ministerial Group Hears Cunningham
(Continued from Page 1)

Dr. Cunningham stressed the point that all students should pick their subjects carefully enough so that they would be fit for their work not only in the seminary but in after life also. The languages are probably about the most important thing to be dealt with. Dr. Cunningham stated that the student considering entering the ministry should not think of the ministry as just another profession, such as being a doctor, lawyer, etc. The ministry is to be approached quite differently, and yet much the same motives and characteristics are required for all—to attain the top. The student thinking of entering the ministry should first have the right motive. Then he should consider himself. If he thinks he is qualified, then others’ opinion of him is most important. Some do more good by staying out of the ministry. Be sure that you can meet the problems and equally fulfill the position of a minister before trying to be one, was a warning note of Dr. Cunningham.

Questions brought out for one to consider before entering a seminary were: “Do you do it haphazardly, or with deliberate thought? Do you compare the advantages of different seminaries, or will you just drift into one of them? Do you let casual reputation decide for you? But perhaps the most important thing in this is the faculty and its teaching.”

After the meeting, Dr. Cunningham answered any questions which any individuals wished to ask on seminary life and courses.

Delightful Meals and Sandwiches Served At All Hours
Famous For Good Waffles
Eat With Us And Save Money
LITTLE PEP SANDWICH SHOP
DAVIDSON, N. C.

Debating Team Victor On Western Tour
(Continued from Page 1)

In all three of the engagements, the Davidson team upheld the affirmative side of the question, Resolved: That the nations should agree to prevent the international shipment of arms and munitions. The home schedule for the varsity debaters began on last Friday evening when the negative team, composed of Wade Boggs and Bob Smith, met and defeated debaters from Southwestern College in Memphis, Tenn. The Davidson men were victorious by the decision of one judge. This same team left Monday for an extended northern trip on which they will engage affirmative teams of William and Mary, Rutgers, Bucknell, and Middlebury colleges. They return shortly after the spring recess.

On April 14, the affirmative team of Davidson will meet the negative team from Georgia Tech in the next home debate scheduled. The student body and townspeople are cordially invited to all debates on the hill at any time.

Alumni Office Covers Student Attainments

The alumni and publication office of Davidson, under the supervision of Grier Martin, is making it a point this year to cover all activities of students in Davidson College, particularly student elections, and to forward a report of each individual's accomplishments to their respective “home town” newspapers. Scotty McLeod has been assisting Grier Martin in handling this news, sending out stories to local papers about each student’s honors and participation in extra-curricular activities.

The alumni and publication office feels that when men participate in campus activities, they should receive publicity in their home paper, and in doing this both the college and the student will consequently benefit.

Our Service Speaks For Itself
Visit Us Before The Dances
Norton’s Barber Shop

With William Hanes, Esther Ralston, and Conrad Nagel
Davidson Theatre
WEDNESDAY AND THURSDAY, MARCH 27-28
GOLD DIGGERS OF 1935
With Dick Powell, Adolphe Menjou, Gloria Stuart, and Alice Brady.

FRIDAY, MARCH 29
THE MARINES ARE COMING

SATURDAY, MARCH 30
THE GREAT HOTEL MURDER
With Edmund Lowe and Victor McLaglen

MONDAY, APRIL 1
THE FLORENTINE DAGGER
With Margaret Lindsay and Donald Woods

TUESDAY, APRIL 2
LIFE BEGINS AT FORTY
With Will Rogers, Richard Cromwell, and Rochelle Hudson

Cigarettes are made for your pleasure and for your enjoyment ... nothing else. And when a cigarette gives you the enjoyment that Chesterfields do, there are no “ifs,” “ands,” or “buts” about it.