THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 25, 1935

Big Teams to Have Bitter Race This Year
(Continued from Page 4)

Some aver that thunder and lightnin’ ain't nuthin compared to this cowboy from the wilds of Idaho, which reminds Davidson that in two or three nights there'll be a hot time between wild cowboys and Wildcats. Things look bad to Coach Jim Weaver and his ample assistant Herman Hickman. In spite of extensive advertising for a blocking back, a punter, and something to replace the heart and trimmings of last year's team, the Deacon mentors have found little, so they say. Meanwhile, others are beginning to think different. It’s evident since the Duke game last Saturday that one of the best passing attacks in the state is that of Wake Forest. The Deacons gained 116 yards to Duke’s 0 from passes. Dallas Morris and Walt Kitchin are all Weaver could want. Davidson supporters may take heart in the fact that a new backfield is now rising to fame. Watch these cats pull a surprise.

Track Candidates Begin Active Year
(Continued from Page 4)

The events and their qualifying times or distances follow:
100 yds.—14 secs.; 220 yds.—29 secs.; 440 yds.—58 secs.; 880 yds.—2 mins. and 24 secs.; mile—6 mins.; 2 mile—12 mins.; 120 yds. high hurdles—20 secs.; 220 yds. low hurdles—29.4 secs.; high jump—5 ft.; pole vault—9 ft. and 3 ins.; broad jump—17 ft.; discus throw—115 ft.; shot put—36 ft.; javelin throw—80 ft.

Lewis Captures Tennis Trophies This Summer
(Continued from Page 4)

comers until the finals game in which he was defeated for the second time by Vernon, Seeded No. 1. However, Carlyle displayed great promise and should be a leading contender next year.

Sports Staccato
(Continued from Page 4)

Henry Cassady, George Hornbeck, Carl Carlson, Arthur and Owen Cooke, Jim and Sam Cothran, plus a number of others whose names we could not learn, were participants in major tennis tourneys throughout the country. Bill Snow, Ellis Maples, Ray Pittman, George Jones, Yates Faison, and Charlie Ross were some of the principal exponents of golf, playing tourney matches mostly in the Carolinas. Scores of other students also participated in such contests, but the above men have received recognition because they were mentioned in the sporting columns of Carolina newspapers.

This column wishes to commend the athletic association for its purchase and selection of new uniforms for the varsity teams. This department has heard nothing but compliments on them.

Doc Newton waged a successful campaign and made another serious attack on the Elon goal. The Christians, deep in their own territory, tried a pass; “Midge” Verble intercepted it and returned the ball to the Elon ten-yard line. In two plays the Wildcats advanced the ball six yards, but on the next play, Pittman, attempting to pass, was thrown for a twelve-yard loss. After another incomplete pass for Davidson, the ball went over on downs. They tried a line plunge and a pass, and then another pass, which Wood Burns intercepted. He was downed on the forty-yard line. The Wildcats were hammering away on the Elon 32-yard line when the final whistle blew.

Former Wildcat Stars Hold Various Pro Jobs
(Continued from Page 4)

“Booty” Wingfield, former football star, journeyed back to his hometown in Reidsville, N.C., where he took over the reins as assistant coach in the Reidsville High and is also teaching baseball.

Worthy Students Are Aided By NYA
(Continued from Page 1)

enthusiastic about the project of coaching pupils who are behind, as he said, “These classes should reduce failures by a large percentage. We already have four Math classes started and will raise the number to ten by next week. We expect to do the same thing in regard to foreign languages.” Another phase which he was very much interested in was that of soil erosion and reforestation. It is to be commenced very shortly, and the work will be done chiefly on the outskirts of the Davidson campus. In summing up his views on the NYA program, Prof. Fleagle pointed out that the work serves the double purpose of keeping students out of the ranks of the unemployed by giving them something to do, and at the same time enabling them to continue their education.

Faculty Vacations Spent in Many States
(Continued from Page 5)

Prof. Schenck taught in the Davidson summer school and afterwards continued his study at Montreat, N.C. Dr. Sentelle spent most of his vacation in Davidson except for a tour over the Tennessee mountains.Dr. Shewmake spent the entire summer in leisure and study at his home in Davidson. Prof. Thies spent the summer in Davidson working at the Chemistry laboratory. Dr. Vowles and Richard Vowles motored to Minnesota after summer school where they met Mrs. Vowles and spent most of the summer in their summer cottage near Detroit Lakes, Minn. Dr. Watts spent most of the summer at his home on Cape Cod, where he fished and golfed most of the time. Prof. Wood spent most of his time in Lewisburg, W. Va. Prof. Fulcher taught six weeks in summer school and later visited relatives in South Carolina and Virginia. Dr. Richards stayed in Davidson until August first and then attended a conference at Montreat. Dr. Harding spent the summer writing some articles. Dr. Cumming worked as he traveled all over the country.

DON'T BE CAUGHT WITHOUT The Parker Vacumatic — Invented by a University Professor to replace pens that suddenly run dry in Classes and Exams. Holds 12,000 words of ink—102% more than old style... When held to the light you can see the Ink Level—see when to refill!

The marvelous new Parker Vacumatic is no more like the pens of yesterday than your 1935 car is like a ’25 model. It’s the identical pen you've often said that someone ought to invent. Scores of inventors tried to—fully 250 sacless pens were patented before this miracle writer was born. But none found a way to surmount the mechanical faults of squirt-gun piston pumps, valves, etc. Then a scientist at the University of Wisconsin conceived the Vacumatic. And Geo. S. Parker, world’s leading pen maker, agreed to develop it because it contained no rubber sac or lever filler like sac-type pens—no piston pump as in ordinary sacless pens. That’s why Parker can—and DOES—guarantee the Vacumatic MECHANICALLY PERFECT!

Davidson Wildcats Win First Game of Season (Continued from Page 4)

After a beautiful sixty-yard punt by Abbitt, the ball was on the ’Cat nine-yard line. On the first down, a lateral pass to Pittman went high over his head. However, he recovered it on the eight, and on the next down punted to safety in midfield. Pittman averaged only thirty-four yards on his punts for the afternoon. Although the figures show that one of his punts, accidentally blocked by one of his Wildcat teammates, went for only ten yards, and brought down a record that would have averaged slightly under fifty yards per try.

FRESHMEN PATRONIZE Norton’s Barber Shop All We Ask Is a Trial NORTON AND CIDROAM Proprietors

Choice leaves of Turkish tobacco are strung one by one like beads (see how it is done in the picture). After the leaves are strung they are packed in bales (see picture)—sometimes as many as 80,000 leaves to the bale. We have on hand at all times for CHESTERFIELD cigarettes upwards of 350,000 bales of Turkish tobacco... The pleasing aroma and flavor of Turkish tobacco is almost necessary if you want a good cigarette. Turkish tobacco is more costly when you take into account that you have to pay 35c a pound duty, but we have to have it to blend with our mild ripe home-grown tobaccos. It helps make Chesterfields milder, it helps give them better taste. Just try them.

© 1935, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.

Welcome Students! Begin the year right by making our store your store. Next door to the post office and “just as popular.” COLLEGE PHARMACY Davidson's Service Drug Store

FREE! Send a Post Card for New Ink That Cleanses Any Pen As It Writes Parker Quink—a remarkable new ink—contains a harmless ingredient that dissolves sediment left in pens by ordinary inks. Ends clogging. Get it from any store, or send your address for a small bottle to try, FREE. Address, Dept. 711.