Meri is _ FRATERNITIES TAKE ~ 10 MEN AT END: OF RUSHING WEEK - ALENDA ee a NEW MEN ARE
ADDED TO FACULTY GROUP! Dr. Howard to Teach Chemistry and Math, Prof. Johnston in History DAVIDSON GRADUATES Foreman Returns After
Two Years Study at Yale

Two new professors, Dr. David H. Howard and Frontis W. Johnston, have been added to the faculty of Davidson College.
Dr. Howard will serve in the Chemistry Department, and Prof. Johnston will teach in the History Department.

Dr. David H. Howard, '28, is in the department of chemistry and mathematics. He remained at the college a year
after his graduation as an assistant in the Chemistry department. He was a member of Phi Beta Kappa, and graduated
with first honors in his class. He received his Ph.D. degree from Cornell University in 1933, and held fellowships and
scholarships there for four years. For the past two years he has been teaching at George Washington University in Washington,
D. C.

Prof. Frontis W. Johnston, '30, is taking the place in the History department left vacant by the death of Dr.
J. M. McConnell. While in Davidson he was a member of Phi Beta Kappa, O.D.K., and was captain of two
athletic teams. Following his graduation at Davidson, Prof. Johnston taught at the Wallace School in Nashville, Tenn., for one year.
From there he went to Yale University where he has been studying History for the past four years, and had
a fellowship or scholarship for each year.

Dr. K. J. Foreman has returned this year to resume his place in the Bible department after an absence of
two years. Dr. Foreman has been studying at Yale during this time. Mr. Franklin Riker from Statesville is a new
professor in the music department, teaching two days a week. A. M. Cunningham, '35, has returned this year to be
an assistant in the music department.

Evening Programs To Replace Church McSween and Foreman Speak at Opening Services

Dr. John McSween, Alumnus of Davidson College, inaugurated the new College Vesper Services in Chambers Auditorium Sunday, September 15, speaking
on Romans 1, 16. Professor Foreman, professor of Bible at Davidson College, spoke last Sunday in the second service of
the series using “Thou shalt not steal.” Dr. McSween used as his text Romans 1, 16—“For I am not ashamed
of the gospel of Christ for it is the power of God unto salvation unto everyone that believeth.” Dr. McSween
went on to say that Paul was not ashamed of the gospel for it was the gospel which is good
news. He stated that it was the gospel of dynamite, the force to blast out sin and the force that
reshapes a man. It is the power of God unto salvation and eternal life to everyone that believeth. He went
(Continued on Page 5)

Cole Windham Is Appointed Cadet Major For The Year

NEW PROFESSOR Davidson's professor of Chemistry and assistant professor of Mathematics. Dr. D. H. Howard, new professor of Chemistry and
assistant professor of Mathematics. Dr. Frontis Johnston has also been added to the faculty, but his cut is not available.

EUROPE VISITED BY PROFESSORS Dr. W. L. Lingle, Dr. Frazier Hood and Dr. T. W. Lingle Travel in Europe

Three members of the Davidson College faculty, and two of their wives, Dr. and Mrs. Walter Lingle, Dr. and Mrs.
Hood, and Dr. Thomas Lingle, spent the summer traveling in various parts of Europe. Dr. and Mrs. Walter Lingle landed
in Naples, Italy, after a pleasant voyage on the Savoia, an Italian boat. After spending several days there, they traveled
up through Rome, Florence and the Italian lake region on their way to Switzerland. They visited Interlaken and Lucerne, touching
on Germany in the Black Forest and the city of Cologne, voyaged down the Rhine via boat, one of the
highlights of the trip according to Mrs. Lingle. After a few days in Brussels, the president and his wife sailed
to Dover and thence to London for a week’s stay. From that city, they made their way to Scotland, stopping
at Stratford-on-Avon, Oxford, and Cambridge en route. And, after visiting in Glasgow and Edinburgh for a few days, Dr. and
Mrs. Lingle sailed for home via Montreal. According to Mrs. Lingle, her husband enjoyed Scotland the most, while she derived
most pleasure from Italy.

Dr. and Mrs. Frazier Hood did not touch upon the continent, but centered their vacation in England and Scotland where,
although their summer was mainly intended for rest, they observed the types of people and the landmarks of literature. The
Hoods arrived at Plymouth after a disagreeable voyage caused by inclement weather, and made their way into Cornwall, where they
spent two and one half weeks of their vacation at a private home. There, they were the guests of the
brother of the chief of Scotland Yard. (Continued on Page 5)

Interfraternity Council To Hold Opening Set Of Dances

The first set of dances to be conducted under the auspices of the 1935 Davidson Pan-Hellenic Council will be held
in the Charlotte Hotel on Friday and Saturday, October 11 and 12, it was announced Monday by Cokey Branton, president
of the council. This is the week-end of the Davidson-South Carolina game, to be played on Richardson Field Saturday afternoon.
The dances will follow the customary order of Pan-Hellenic sets: formal dance Friday night from 9:30 to 2 o'clock, informal
Saturday night from 8:30 to 12 o'clock. Formerly the informal dance has been given at the Charlotte Armory, but this
set will take place in its entirety at the hotel. Attempts are being made to secure one of the following
four orchestras for the dance: The Duke Ambassadors, Jimmy Poiner, Dave Burnside, or the Clemson Jungleers. The new plan for
raising of funds for the mid-winter dances, which was mentioned last year, will be discussed in detail at the chapel
hour on Friday.

WOOTEN BAND CAPTAIN Three Hundred and Eighty-Two Men Taking ROTC

Last year’s junior officers returning to school after spending six weeks at Fort McClellan, Anniston, Ala., taking supplementary military training
find themselves promoted according to the discretion of local instructors, who judge the men mainly in regard to their ability
as displayed this summer. Also those sophomores who last year showed sufficient aptitude for R.O.T.C. work have been given their
appointments. The following appointments have been announced:

Cadet Major and Battalion Commander: Cole L. Windham.

Company “A” Cadet Capt. William A. Archer, Cadet First Lts. William Tabor, William A. Boll, Charles L. Mann; Cadet 2nd
Lts. George P. Erwin, Albert W. Price, Jr., Donald M. Stewart; Cadet 1st Sergt. R. S. Bigham; Cadet Sergts. Jack
Andrews, J. C. Branton, T. M. Breedon, J. T. Morton, J. R. McClellan, J. A. Sommerville, F. Thompson.

Company “B” Cadet Capt. Alfred N. Bulwinkle, Cadet 1st Lts. Martin J. Barnett, Thomas E. Downey, Daniel B. Griffin, Wm.
B. Mickley; Cadet 2nd Lts. Roy J. Blackwelder, Val Cassells, James H. Morrow, Fields Young, Jr.; Cadet 1st Sergt. W.
F. Barnes; Cadet Sergts. L. D. Feuchtenberger, J. L. Hunter, E. J. Mack, M. Peabody, J. B. Ritchie, D. R.
Sellers, H. Woodward.

Company “C” Cadet Capt. James W. Hassell, Jr.; Cadet 1st Lts. Robert P. Morrow, Jr., William B. Hunter, George A.
Leukel, Jr., Robert C. Cadet 2nd Lts. James B. Huntington, Jr., John R. Pearce, L. T. Purnell; Cadet 1st Sergt.
K. E. Fryfogle; Cadet Sergts. A. O. Cook, H. S. Finley, C. B. Gladden, A. F. Moffett, W. C. McAfee,
F. H. McLean, Ave le Hotty.

Company “D” Cadet Capt. James M. Hodgin; Cadet 1st Lts. William L. Brown, Joseph F. Dees, Addison A. Kuhn, William
N. Taylor; Cadet 2nd Lts. William N. Beaty, James C. Cothran, William F. (Continued on Page 5)

Elon Contest And Rally Go On Air Citadel Game, October 26, Next to Be Broadcast

The Davidson-Elon football game and Davidson pep meeting in preparation for this game were heard by hundreds of people over
radio Station WBT last week-end. The pep-meeting was the first of the regular Davidson College programs, while the game was
a special feature of Station WBT. Martin, Alumni Secretary, has been trying to get WBT to broadcast a game for
several years. Last year the last quarter of the Carolina game was to be broadcast, but due to a Southern
Conference rule this was not done. In addition to the game last Saturday, the Citadel game on Oct. 26 will
be heard over the air. These two are the only two non-conference games which Davidson has at home. Two microphones
were used at the game Saturday afternoon, one located in the press box through which the actual announcing was done
and the other was in front of the band and cheering section, to pick up yells and music.“Plug” Osborne of
Charlotte announced the game. The pep-meeting, which was broadcast Friday night, consisted of talks by Mr. F. L. Jackson, Henry
Cathey, Cole Windham, Bob Lindsay, and Joe Dees; band music, and yells by the student body. Mr. Jackson, in his
talk, said, “The coaches haven’t wasted any time and need the support of every Davidson man. We need to exhibit
the old Wildcat spirit.” This program was announced by Grier Martin.

NUMBER 1 ENROLLMENT SHOULD PASS PREVIOUS MARK
Davidson College Enrollment Includes Six Hundred and Sixty-Six Men
NUMBER WERE REFUSED
Frosh Class is Largest With Two Hundred and Nine

The six hundred and sixty-six students now enrolled in Davidson College for the 1935-1936 session make up the largest in
the ninety-nine years of the college's existence, surpassing last high-water mark by eleven men. The freshman class, as usual, is
the largest, with two hundred and nine members. The sophomore class is second, with an enrollment of one hundred and
eighty-two. The juniors follow with one hundred and forty-three, and the senior class has one hundred and thirty-two members. There
are as yet no figures available on the registration by states and foreign countries. These will be announced in the
near future.

This year there were also more applicants for enrollment than ever before. The limit of registration was reached by the
first of August. Since that time, over fifty applicants have been turned away. About a half dozen have been turned
down since the opening of school. Due to the large enrollment this year, the dormitories are filled to capacity and
a number of students had to be placed in town. The former residence of Dr. Foreman, on North Main Street,
just south of the cemetery, has been equipped with eighteen beds to take care of part of the overflow. Officially
spoken of as “the Club,” this dormitory is better known as “the Morgue.” The usual withdrawals during the year will
enable some of those placed in town to find rooms in the regular dormitories later on. Plans are being made
for a limited registration plan for the next school year. It is hoped to keep the enrollment under the six
hundred and fifty mark.

Worthy Students Are Aided By NYA
Students Work in Many Different Capacities

“The National Youth Administration is already helping seventy men and will be employing thirty or forty more by next month,”
said Professor I. K. Fleagle, administrator of the $1170 a month fund turned over to Davidson College by the Federal
Government to help worthy students secure an advanced education. The $1170 a month allotment is figured on the basis of
78 jobs at $15 a month, but it is not necessarily administered that way. It is left up to the
judgment of the committee, which consists of Prof. Fleagle, Dr. G. R. Vowles, and Prof. H. E. Fulcher. Last year,
a total of 131 students were employed at approximately $11 a month. This year, the college has 120 applications and
expects to help them all in some way. However, it is no easy job to get on the relief roll
as an examination of the requirements will show. Some of them are: No NYA student may belong to any social
organization which increases his college expenses; he may not incur expenses by engaging in any campus activity other than those
deemed by the college to be a part of its scholastic endeavor; he may not indulge in extravagances of any
kind; he must keep up a good scholastic average; he, and one of his parents, must sign a statement saying
that he cannot attend Davidson College without NYA aid.

Some of the many jobs given this year are: grading papers or doing clerical work for the faculty, working in
laboratories or the library, coaching pupils who are behind, and helping out at neighboring schools in Huntersville, Cornelius, Mooresville, and
Davidson. Professor Fleagle was particularly en- (Continued on page 6)

OVER ONE HUNDRED FROSH PLEDGED BY NINE FRATERNITIES
ALUMNI HEAD
Mr. Hugh A. Query, ‘09, Gastonia, who was elected president of the Alumni Association for the coming year. Recognized as
an ardent Wildcat, he received this honor at the Association’s meeting at Commencement.

ROTC OFFICERS ARE PROMOTED
Rhett, Cochran, and Seifert Receive Promotion Through Army Bill

During the summer, the three United States Army officers stationed here with the R.O.T.C. unit received promotions. Former Major J.
T. Rhett was promoted to Lieutenant Colonel, former Captain F. M. Cochran was promoted to Major, and former Captain C.
W. Seifert was promoted to Major. These promotions came about because of a bill passed by the last session of
Congress, providing for promotions in the regular army. Two thousand officers were affected by it. The promotions made for the
Davidson officers became effective August 1.

Col. Rhett is from South Carolina and a graduate of the University of South Carolina with the degree of A.B.
He entered the army as a Second Lieutenant in 1911 after serving as an officer in the South Carolina National
Guard. He was promoted to First Lieutenant on July 1, 1916, Captain on May 15, 1917, Major on July 1,
1920, and Lieutenant Colonel on Aug. 1, 1935. He is a graduate of the Advanced Course of the Infantry School,
Fort Benning, Ga., the Command and General Staff School, Fort Leavenworth, Kan., and the Army War College, Washington, D. C.
He came here three years ago from the War College.

Major Cochran enlisted in the Georgia National Guard in June 1900. He served in all grades from Private to Captain
in Co. D, old Fifth Ga., which became the 122 Inf. in the World War. This company won a drill
competition in Kansas City in which all companies in the country competed. He was Adjutant of the Regiment from 1910
to 1913, and was made a Major in 1913 and assigned to the Adjutant General’s department as Assistant Adjutant General.
In July, 1917, (Continued on Page 5)

Hectic Rushing Season Closed With Successful Bid Night Saturday
FRATS CUT EXPENSES
Many Rules Laid Down by Pan-Hellenic Council

Over one hundred Davidson freshmen pledged fraternities in acceptance of bids sent out by the fraternities on the campus last
Saturday night. September 20 brought nine social fraternities one hundred and ten upperclassmen who pledged a few freshmen. Rush week
was this year extended to nine days in comparison to the rather short season of five days held the year
before. The formal rushing started on September 12, Friday, and continued until ten o'clock P.M. Thursday. From this time until
seven o'clock Saturday night, the period of silence was observed. During this time, no upperclassman could speak to a rushee
concerning his choice of fraternities. From seven o'clock until nine o'clock Saturday night, fifteen minutes was allowed with each rushee
who might be undecided as to which bid to accept.

The following rules were imposed by the Pan-Hellenic Council in an effort to keep down the expense of Rush Week:
1. The fraternities were allowed only seven regular social functions during the nine days of rushing.
2. There could be held only one off-the-campus function.
3. No upperclassman could take a freshman to a picture show.
4. No upperclassman could pay for a freshman’s refreshment at the Drug Store, etc.
5. There would be a seventy-five dollar limit that each fraternity might spend for feeds and smokers on the campus.
6. No freshman could be taken off the campus by fraternities or their men with the exception of the one
off-campus function.
7. A report had to be submitted to the Pan-Hellenic Council concerning the above expenditures at the end of the
Rushing Season.

Feeds, smokers, and dances predominated the forms of social entertainment during the week. The following is a list of the
pledges to each of the Greek letter fraternities:

BETA THETA PI: Tom Abbott, (Continued on Page 5)

Downie Appointed New Yowl Editor
McLeod Leaves Vacancy by Failure to Return

Tom Downie has been appointed by the Publications Board to fill the editorship of the Yowl, which was left vacant
by the failure of “Scotty” McLeod to return to college this year. McLeod is now editing the Spruce Pines News
in Spruce Pines, North Carolina. He was selected last year to be editor of the Yowl but was unable to
return here. T. K. Downie is from Little Rock, Arkansas, and is a member of the Kappa Alpha fraternity. He
was on the staff of the Quips and Cranks last year, a member of the International Relations Club, the Sigma
Delta Pi honorary fraternity, and the Black Keys. Present plans are to issue the first Yowl around the last of
October.

Subscription Blank
THE DAVIDSONIAN
Business Manager, The Davidsonian, Davidson, N. C.
Dear Sir:
Enclosed please find ($2.00) two dollars for one year's subscription to The Davidsonian.
