THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 13, 1935

EDITION OFFERS JUNIOR HISTORY

Members Of Third Year Class Prominent In Many Phases Of Activity

“Every dog has his day!” And this edition of the Davidsonian is dedicated to that honorable portion of the student
body known as the juniors. Early in the annals of Davidson College history, the junior class celebrated this dedication by
Junior Speaking. And now this form of assertion has been transformed into the dance set, retaining the name held in
former days when the three-year men orated before friends, families, and sweethearts.

On September 12, nineteen hundred and thirty-three, one hundred and ninety-eight promising greenhorns strolled through the portals of Chambers Building
to register as members of the class of '36. The class historian stated, “The first year consisted of heavy laundries
and numerous errands.” But these humble duties were soon replaced by deserving dignity. With approximately three-fourths of its journey complete,
we pause briefly to glimpse into the achievement of its life of yesteryear.

First, a brief glance makes manifest the eminent position of the juniors in athletics, scholarship, and extra-curricular activities. View our
prided gridiron, diamond, tennis, mat, cinder path, and basketball teams; many three-year men fill important positions. This writing must speak
for the class as a whole, for individual honors are numberless. But as the year wanes, there are men who
stand out for one reason or another, be it on the honor roll, on the athletic team, or in some
other phase of worthy endeavor.

Juniors point with pride at the pre-eminence of their classmates in gridiron competition. For their fellow students form the nucleus
of our future football team with Henry Cathey and Cole Windham acting as co-captains. “Woody” Burns, Six Johnston, John Lee,
Paul Pittman, Midge Verble, Baxter Yarborough, and others represent next year’s hope.

Turn next to the 'Cats’ victorious basketeers with Cole Windham a member. The unblemished record Captain-elect Leroy Blackwelder, with Jim
Hodgin and Frank Owens as aids, captured the state championship mat crown for the ‘Wildcats—the first in years. John Lee
and the unbeatable Earle Frazier added new laurels to their college and class in a recent indoor track meet in
Charlotte. Frazier, scintillating distance runner, represents Davidson's possible future Olympic star.

Jack Jenkins, junior twirler, will feature the pitching performance for the baseball team. “Woody” Burns, baseball letterman, will probably hold
down his position at first base. Arthur Haake, “Hank” Loftin, John Partridge, and Don Stewart will try for places vacated
by last year’s seniors. Martin Barnett and Carlyle Lewis, of last year’s tennis team, will probably play again this year.
George Hornbeck, transfer from State, is expected to capture a place on the squad.

(Continued on Page 5, Col. 3)

Rhodes Elections’ Schedule Changed

Word has been received here that an important change has been made in the date of appointment of Rhodes Scholars.
Instead of in early January, the elections will take place December 12th or 14th in the individual states, and the
district meetings will be held December 16th, 1935. This means that all applications must be in the hands of state
secretaries by November 2nd, and that Davidson candidates must be named by the faculty about the middle of October, considerably
earlier than during recent years. For this reason, seniors and juniors who are interested in the scholarships should make their
plans early.

Many misconceptions regarding the scholarships are prevalent among students. Students interested are urged to confer with members of the faculty
committee on the Rhodes Scholarships, and to read Oxford of Today, by Crosby and Aydelotte.

Four Out of Five College Men Come To JOHNSON’S Barber Shop

SPONSORS FOR THE JUNIOR SPEAKING DANCES

Miss Georgie Underwood of Charlotte, N. C. with Mr. Martin Barnett, Sigma Phi Epsilon.
Miss Mathilda Kyser of Talladega, Alabama with Mr. C. B. Chapman, Phi Delta Theta.
Miss Anita Smith of Gastonia, N. C. with Mr. J. F. Loftin, Kappa Sigma.
Miss Nancy Talbert of Rock Hill, S. C. with Mr. John Willis, Pi Kappa Phi.
Miss Eleanor Hayes of Charlotte, N. C. with Mr. J. E. Bowers.
Miss Virginia Hardin of High Point, N. C. with Mr. W. L. Brown, Sigma Alpha Epsilon.
Miss Elinor Edenton with Mr. P. Y. Harlan, Phi Gamma Delta.
Miss Johnny Walker with Mr. Bud Okie, Kappa Alpha.
Miss Jane Hashagen of Gastonia, N. C. with Mr. W. L. Brown, Sigma Alpha Epsilon.

W. E. White Elected As New EU President

Clarence White took over the reins as president of the Eumenean Literary Society at the meeting last Tuesday evening. Jimmie
Salango, vice-president, and Jim Morton, secretary, also served for the first time in their official capacity. The program consisted of
various reports and discussions of current events by the members. John D. Allen spoke for the group, using as his
subject, “Lincoln Steffens, Muckraker.” This theme was an eulogy to Steffens and a defense of his actions in exposing vice
rings and graft in American politics.

Further plans were made for the reception of the Queens-Chicora Literary Society deputation which will present a program before the
Eumenean Society on March 19. Later in the year, the Eumenean Society is planning to send a return deputation to
Queens-Chicora.

GOOD Food
GOOD Service
GOOD Rates are Good Reasons For Eating at the LITTLE PEP

Davidson Head Gives Talks In Greensboro

Dr. Walter L. Lingle spoke at two services of the Church of the Covenant in Greensboro last Sunday, March 10.
The subject of his morning address was, “It Is More Blessed to Give Than to Receive.” This topic was in
keeping with the every-member canvass.Eight o'clock service. Dr. Lingle chose a companion subject to that used in the morning, his
theme being “The Man Who Had No Money.” The Church of the Covenant will be the scene of two sermons
by Dr. Lingle again next Sunday, March 17.

Davidson Graduate Speaks At Church

The visiting pastor at the Davidson Presbyterian Church for this month was Dr. P. D. Miller, pastor of the First
Presbyterian Church, Raleigh. Dr. Miller preached upon “The Marks of a Man Called of God,” taking his text from John
1:6, “There came a man, sent from God, whose name was John.” Mr. Miller graduated from Davidson in 1922. From
here he went to Union Theological Seminary, where he won a fellowship. His first work was in a small home
mission field in North Georgia.

WARNER BROS. BROADWAY OPENING SUNDAY MIDNITE MARCH 17TH AND ALL WEEK

We Also Announce A New Price Policy STARTING MONDAY MARCH 18TH

Bargain Matinee Daily 11 A.M. TO 1 P.M. 20c All Seats 25c
1 P.M. TO 6 P.M. All Seats 25c
6 to Closing Balcony 25c Orchestra 35c

THURSDAY ONLY

Stranger than fiction is this story of tropic adventure actually experienced by this girl adventurer!

“Frontier Days” with Bill Cody
Ed Kennedy Comedy

MONDAY TUESDAY

PRESIDENT VANISHES

A vivid and dramatic picturization of a national crisis... torn from TODAY'S HEADLINES! President kidnapped on eve of war!

MATINEE 20c
NIGHT 20c, 25c

Charlotte, N.C.

Davidson Students Present As Speed King

Warner DuBose, Albert Stutts, And Harold Sugg Witness Weird Accident

By H. G. Sugg

Of the 50,000 spectators that lined the glistening sands of Daytona Beach to watch Sir Malcolm Campbell and his Bluebird
in a play with speed and death were three lucky Davidson students who stopped over on a debating trip to
watch the try for a 300 mph run. Unbeknown to Warner DuBose, Albert Stutts, and Harold Sugg at the time,
Campbell grappled with death in the cockpit of the mighty Bluebird during the weirdest accident of his 30 years’ driving
career.

Gathering speed for the test mile in the middle of the 11 1/4-mile course, Sir Malcolm had reached 233 mph,
his foot to the floor. Bluebird was running beautifully when the cowling on the right side of the motor tore
loose. It had been melted by the heat from the exhaust pipe. The wind whipped it loose, and exhaust fumes,
carbon monoxide gas, poured upon the gallant Englishman wedged in the narrow cockpit. His first thought, he afterwards revealed, was
“My God, I'm on fire!” Bluebird swerved and there was a great slackening of speed that marked Campbell's fight for
control. It crossed the black line set for his guidance and the tires threw sand into the cockpit. All this
happened in the test mile, somewhere in the middle of which were three college boys ready to jump behind the
first sand dune in sight. He made this mile, usually his fastest, in 188/186 miles per hour.

When mechanics had torn the loose cowling from the machine, he turned north and against the wind, made 208.212 miles
an hour in the test mile. Bluebird was thundering again when suddenly the left cowling duplicated its brother’s performance and
Sir Malcolm again had to cut the motor and fight for control. He coasted the rest of the way, blistering
hot, blinded by gas and deafened by the roar of the motors. The reaction of the three boys was that
“We were pretty lucky.” The beach for miles was about 100 feet wide and as level and smooth as a
scenic highway.

(Continued on Page 6, Col. 3)

Among the GREEKS

Beta Theta Pi: The brothers of the chapter enjoyed a “feed” last Sunday night. The election of officers for the
next term will be held sometime next week.

Kappa Alpha: Jim Johnston was initiated into the chapter last week.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon: A party was given Sunday night in commemoration of the founding of the Sigma Alpha Epsilon on
March 9, 1856, at the University of Alabama. Brother Harris Barksdale spent a very enjoyable weekend at Randolph-Macon. Brother Gene
Mathews is rapidly recovering from an eye injury and is expected back in school soon.

Kappa Sigma: Seven of the Kappa Sig pledges were initiated into the chapter. They were: Wade Barrow, Charles Elder, Euclid
Fant, Haywood Hill, Johnny McQueen, Tommy Morrison, and Joe Thompson. Two more of the pledge group will probably be initiated
sometime next week. The chapter enjoyed the usual Sunday night “feed.”

Pi Kappa Phi: The brothers of the chapter entertained on the campus during the weekend. Misses Meesie Moffett and Mary
Withers from Davidson attended, while there were a good number of Charlotte girls on hand for the gala event.

Phi Gamma Delta: The brothers of the chapter enjoyed a “feed” and “sing” last Sunday night. Brothers Cokey Branton and
Russell Patterson attended the North Carolina convention at the University of North Carolina.

Phi Delta Theta: The Gamma Chapter enjoyed the customary Sunday evening “feed.” The election of officers for next year was
held and Carleton Taylor, of Talladega, Ala., was elected president. Brothers Chapman and Breeden enjoyed a brief jaunt to Converse
College over the weekend.

EFIRD'S FEATURE

This is the kind of sports suit we mean when we say that sports suits are now worn everywhere! The
back is full, as you can see, with small gathers from shoulders to the waist. The fabrics are soft, but
the fine type of soft fabrics that will give you the utmost wear. The patterns are soft, but distinct, and
you have a wide choice of colors. With the popular new saddlebag type pockets.
