THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 20, 1935

Sport Staccato
(Continued from page 4)

Dunlap brothers. We wouldn't attempt to verify the rumor, but it so happened that one of the Dunlap boys was carried out of the game. There is a definite rivalry between Davidson and Duke, although it must be admitted that in latter days the Wildcats have been taking themselves more seriously on the eve of the annual Duke game. At least the Dukes haven't taken themselves or their opponents seriously enough to go in for mussing up football players, and if any unnecessary roughness occurs in Saturday’s contest the chances are the Blue Devils will be on the receiving end. Those of us who have witnessed Wade-coached teams can and will vouch for this in advance of the game.

It is, of course, essential that Mr. Stamey fill up space in his column, but when sports news becomes so scarce that one has to resort to mudslinging, then we suggest that he copy Mother Goose rhymes. Not only was the Duke game this year a clean one but after the final whistle there were a number of Davidson and Duke men down in the dressing room who laughed and joked in the best of terms. Even “Doc” Newton and Wallace Wade were having their “bull session.” The only ones to suffer injuries as far as we can determine were Davidson players, but we certainly do not believe Duke was laying for the ‘Cats and we are pretty sure that no one with the exception of this remarkable gentleman of the press thought the 'Cats were laying for the Dukes.

“No, sir, there’s nothin’ sissy about that game,” spectators were heard to remark after the soccer classic this past week with High Point College. In fact, never has such an exhibition of legal kicking, shinnying, tackling, jumping, sliding, etc., been staged within the confines of Davidson College since its beginning. Jimmy Cothran pulled off some nice elusive playing on his frequent trips toward the enemy goal with the ball while Ken Scott astounded spectators with his long kicks and his own quickness. Charlie Elder played consistently while his roommate, Ed Donigan, sporting the most spectacular uniform on the field—an orange jersey—accounted for a large part of his team's efforts including a goal. Charlie Bixler, reputed the “best individual on the team,” used his football experience to good advantage in his blocking and kicking. Haake (goal tender and branded by some as “local king of swat”), Armstrong, and Kestler led the list of minor stars.

Wildcats Down V. M. I. Cadets By 14-6 Score
(Continued from Page 1)

Armfield intercepted a pass before the quarter closed. The ball exchanged hands three times; then Roberson ran 45 yards on a punt. He brought the ball from the V. M. I. 25 to Davidson's. After a tight struggle for two fake ball formations, the Wildcats...

Britain and the British Dominions and Colonies. Carnegie’s memory will be honored on November 25 in his native city of Dunfermline, Scotland, from which he emigrated with his family to the United States in 1848. Other ceremonies will be held in New York, Pittsburgh, and Washington, D. C., while special programs and exhibits will be arranged by many Carnegie libraries. The New York program will consist of a special choral-orchestral performance on November 25 in Carnegie Hall, which Carnegie built for the cultural advancement of New York City; a formal assembly at the New York Academy of Medicine on the evening of November 26, honoring Carnegie for his many benefactions in different fields for the advancement of mankind, and a dinner on the evening of November 27 attended by those associated with Andrew Carnegie or engaged in carrying out his benefactions.

the Wildcats Tie Pointers In First Soccer Clash
(Continued from Page 4)

about even, but in the second Davidson clearly outplayed the visitors. Lineups:
C. Bixler R.W. Ellington
Armstrong R.I. Peeler
Sell Geek Culler
Elder L.I. Martin
Donigian Gawa Gray
Squires S. Grigg
Cothran Gries Sherrill
R. Wilson Geeks Smith
Kester R.F. Elder
Scott Isler Haake G. Niernsee

Substitutions: Davidson—J. Wilson for Donigian, McFayden for Squires, Squires for McFayden, Donigian for J. Wilson. High Point—Bolling for Niernsee.

Seniors Show Winning Form
(Continued from Page 4)

The score tells the tale; the winners held the upper hand throughout both games. Again “The Goon” played a prominent part in the victory, smashing his way through his opponents for many points. The senior team was captained by M. J. Barnett, while A. M. Faison headed the centennials’ team. Yates Faison led the sophomores, and freshman R. O. Lang to the captaincy. Because of the varsity soccer game played Friday, interclass volleyball was postponed to this week, when the series will be finished.

Duke’s Victory Upsets Dopesters’ Predictions
(Continued from Page 4)

the real score of the game will be given a pass each. In case of too many ties, the scores will indicate the real winner, the prize going to the one picking the closest scores. Here they are:

DOG Elon
Guilford

McClure Talks For Ministerial Band Gathering
(Continued from Page 5)

then fails his review next day. We are here in college to study, not what we are yet to learn in the Seminary.” Too much emphasis cannot be laid on private and prayer life, pointed out a few weeks ago by Professor Schenck. The “Y” Secretary then dwelt on the positive...side of the question, telling what things we should work towards. Such things, he said, as making the best grades you can, having the most friends, and putting up the hardest fight you can in your athletics—those are the things that count. Look at yourself, he said, and see what is the matter with you—why don't you make friends? Why aren't you attractive? Are you the strongest spirit in your group? Another thing that is good to work on is one’s speaking voice and ability to read aloud. One of the most important things is to develop and show dependability. If you take a job, such as teaching a Sunday School class, or helping in a church, stick with it, and be dependable. Such a regular contact with another group of people, gained in this way, may prove to be one of the most valuable contacts made in all one’s time at college. The speaker closed with the exhortation to “Make yourself count. Make your hall a better hall, your room a better room, and your roommate a better man.”

Dr. Sweets Is Guest Pastor At Sunday Vesper Services (Continued from Page 5)

was the one suggested by the title of a Scottish minister’s book, “The Life of God in the Soul of Man.” In conclusion, Dr. Sweets spoke of the life of Jesus Christ, the life loving service for others, as the model of the perfect life, and expressed the plea “Pattern your life after Jesus Christ.”

Five Debaters Chosen On Varsity Squad (Continued from Page 1)

with Wake Forest. Others may be added later. The home debates are with the University of South Carolina, Washington and Lee University, and the University of Richmond. Dr. C. K. Brown will act as the team’s coach. The members of the new debating team excel in other activities, aside from that of debating. Boggs is the second vice-president of the “Y”, a member of the Le Cercle Francais, the treasurer of the Forensic Council, president of the Alpha Phi Epsilon honorary fraternity, a member of the International Relations Club, and a brother of the Kappa Sigma social fraternity. Port belongs to the International Relations Club, the Alpha Phi Epsilon and Sigma Upsilon fraternities, the Eumenean Literary Society, and the Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity. He is also the football announcer, and the second vice-president of the Forensic Council. Salango is a member of the Eumenean Literary Society, the tenor section of the glee club, the first vice-president of the Forensic Council, and president of the ministerial band. Stewart is the assistant editor of Quips and Cranks, a member of the Eumenean Literary Society, and the Eta Sigma Phi fraternity. He is also a brother of the Phi Gamma Delta fraternity. Sugg is a managing editor of the Davidsonian, and the Yowl, a member of the Sigma Upsilon and Alpha Phi Epsilon fraternities, the debate manager, a member of the International Relations Club, and belongs to the Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity.

DUKE UNIVERSITY SCHOOL OF MEDICINE DURHAM, N. C.

Four terms of eleven weeks are given each year. These may be taken consecutively (graduation in three years) or three terms may be taken each year (graduation in four years). The entrance requirements are intelligence, character and at least two years of college work, including the subjects specified for Grade A Medical Schools. Catalogues and application forms may be obtained from the Dean.

J. O. JONES, Inc.

Duke of Kent Collar Shirt WITH TRUBANIZED FEATURE Remember It Will Not Wilt Or Wrinkle $1.65 $2.00 J. O. JONES, Inc.

Witt went six yards for a touchdown, McMillan failed to convert for an extra point. Pittman intercepted passes in the last minutes to give Davidson a final advantage. Roberson was the mainstay of the Cadet attack, taking the ball most of the time. Beard and Clark were nearly as active in the V. M. I. backfield. Pittman and Lafferty starred for Davidson in running. Yarborough and Armfield were also conspicuous in the backfield. The Red and Black line capitalized on the errors of the opposition, but the Davidson men carrying the ball did well, too. The rain made it difficult to pass and punt. Fumbles took a heavy toll; penalties were few. However, the first downs favored V. M. I. nine to six. The 14-6 score indicated that Davidson took advantage of chances under difficult circumstances.

Andrew Carnegie’s Birthday Centennial To Be Observed (Continued from Page 3)

throughout the English-speaking world. “Upon no foundation but that of popular education can man erect the structure of an enduring civilization. This is the basis of all stability, and underlies all progress. Without it, the State architect builds in vain.” The Andrew Carnegie centenary will be celebrated by the different Carnegie trusts in the United States and in Great Britain.