WILDCATS MEET NORTH CAROLINA THIS SATURDAY

Che Mavidsontan

ALENODA LU xX UB! ORTA LIBERTAS

DON’T FORGET TO HAVE YOUR PHOTO TAKEN FOR ANNUAL

VOL. XXIII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., OCTOBER 16, 1935 NUMBER 3

HUNTER DIES FROM INJURIES SUSTAINED IN AUTO SMASH-UP

Joe Johnston, Linwood Mann, R. T. Peters Escape With Minor Injuries

FRANK PEGRAM KILLED

Hunter Rites Held At South Roanoke, Virginia

After suffering for three days with a dislocated neck, Wilmer “Bud” Hunter, 22-year-old Davidson senior, died in the Lynchburg, Va., hospital Wednesday morning, Oct. 9, about 1:30 o'clock. Hunter's injury was the result of an automobile accident which occurred south of Lynchburg on highway 29, Sunday night. Frank L. Pegram, of Charlotte, who was driving the five-passenger car, was instantly killed as he unsuccessfully tried to avoid crashing into an express truck. Joe Johnston, Linwood Mann, and R. T. Peters, also returning from the Davidson-University of Virginia game, were thrown to the floor of the car thus avoiding serious injury. Hunter and Pegram were pinned in the front seat as the car skidded into the trailer of the truck.

Funeral services for Wilmer Hunter were held at 2:00 o’clock Thursday afternoon at the home of his grandmother, Mrs. Joseph L. Hunter, in South Roanoke, Va. Burial was in the Fairview Cemetery, South Roanoke. Surviving Hunter are his parents, Mr. and Mrs. T. D. Hunter of 1933 Providence Road, Charlotte, and his brothers, Thomas D., Jr., Robert C., and Joseph L. Hunter, a junior at Davidson. In Charlotte, Hunter was a member of the Myers Park Presbyterian Church and the Plymouth Club. In Davidson, he was a cadet first lieutenant in the R. O. T. C., and a member of Scabbard and Blade, honorary military society.

Alumni Begin Work On Centennial Gift

Church, Field House, Library Are Among Choices

In reporting the progress of the Alumni Association on their contemplated Centennial Gift, Grier Martin, secretary of the organization, said this week that the Church and the Field House were leading the voting with the Library, Social Center, and Infirmary following. He also announced that almost $400 had been received in contributions from the alumni. Although a full and detailed report on the voting is not available at the present time, Martin said that there would be a complete report issued at an early date. The alumni have contributed sums which range in size from $1.00 to $50.00. The response of the alumni has been as strong as was expected at this time. It was explained that the main drive of the campaign for funds will be made in the spring of '36 and the spring of '37. To further this plan the Association has prepared a very attractive circular which it intends to send to every alumnus. This circular contains a discussion of the Centennial Gift plan and lists the causes for which the alumni may vote. There are six major causes from which the alumni are to choose their gift. The cause which receives the most votes will be awarded all of the money contributed for the gift. In an effort to make the gift one of true loyalty of the entire alumni, the following motto has been adopted: “It's Not the Size of the Gift that Counts—It’s the Giving!”

Nothing better illustrates the true loyalty of the Davidson Alumni than a letter received by the Secretary of the Association from a member of the Class of '73. This alumnus wrote that he was an old, retired minister and paralyzed and was not able to contribute to the gift fund at the present time, but if he received any money for Christmas he would send that in as his contribution. “That's the type of spirit that marks a Davidson man,” Martin commented. The causes for which the contributions are made are: first, an alumni scholarship system. This would establish regional (Continued on Page 3)

COLLEGE REQUESTS FANS TO HELP KEEP TRADITION

“It is traditional on the Davidson campus that we have no drinking. Our guests at football games are particularly requested to refrain from violating in this important matter the wishes of Trustees, Faculty, students, and friends of the College.”

With this announcement Davidson College startled the eight thousand fans who filled her stadium for the South Carolina game Saturday, and at the same time set a precedent which, many believe, will be followed by schools and colleges throughout the country. The notice comes only as the result of long and careful consideration and conferences with students and faculty. Mr. F. L. Jackson, the college treasurer, read the request in chapel Saturday morning, stating that it was with a great deal of hesitation that he brought the subject up and that he wished to obtain student opinion. It received the unanimous endorsement of the student body.

PICTURES TAKEN FOR YEAR BOOK

Annual Staff Will Edit Larger and Better Quips and Cranks For Year

The Annual Photographer for the Quips and Cranks, Davidson College yearbook, is here this week to take student body pictures. Pictures will be taken in order of classes, with the seniors first and on down in sequence to freshmen. The pictures will be taken in the parlor of Watts. Men will come down at five-minute intervals. This new schedule was devised in order to avoid the confusion of previous years. This year a member of the Quips and Cranks staff will see each student and arrange a time most convenient for him to make an appointment for having his picture taken. This year the annual will be larger than last year’s because there will be two hundred and fifty more individual pictures in it. The editorial staff is striving to make the snapshot section one of the main features this year. Not only do they want a much larger snapshot section, but also one that will represent the life on campus, most important in our college days and very seldom publicized. Martin Barnett, editor of Quips and Cranks, says “With the full cooperation of the student body in regard to their keeping appointments, the heretofore unpleasant task of having pictures made should be accomplished this year very easily and without any loss of time.”

Honorary French Club Initiates Six New Men

Le Cercle Francais held its fall initiation meeting Tuesday night, October 15, at the home of Dr. and Mrs. G. B. Watts. Upon the conclusion of the ceremony the following men became members of the club: W. H. Boggs, S. A. Cothran, P. B. S. Poe, J. R. McClelland, R. B. Vowles, and J. C. Winn. They were selected because of their mastery of the French language and desire to take courses in advanced French. The initiates presented a play, entitled “Cupidon le Dentiste,” by Moliere. Plans were made for meetings early in November with French clubs from Converse and Winthrop colleges. Mrs. Watts then served refreshments and the meeting adjourned. The officers of Le Cercle Francais for the current year are J. H. Glass, president, V. P. Pierce, vice-president, and J. W. Hassell, secretary and treasurer.

NOTED ALUMNUS SPEAKS ON THE VALUE OF BIRDS

Mr. Alexander Sprunt, Class of 1918, Tells of Work Audubon Clubs

ILLUSTRATES BY SLIDES

Speaker Is Former Curator of Charleston Museum

“The Audubon Society exists for one purpose only, and that is to protect birds and wild life,” stated Mr. Alexander Sprunt in his illustrative lecture Monday night. Mr. Sprunt took as his topic “The Why and How of Bird Protection,” stating a fact and making a prophecy in regard to the safety of birds. Education and conservation are the legs on which the Audubon society stands. “Birds are put here to do away with insects, rodents, and fish.” “We are here because birds are here. America has at last awakened, and is beginning to protect her feathered inhabitants. At one time birds were killed for their plumage. Today this is prohibited by Federal Law and is backed not only by them but by the bird societies. We are beginning to admire birds for their song and beauty. The Audubon society has set up nineteen bird sanctuaries in the south, and the children of today are taught the value of birds by the Junior Audubon Society.”

Mr. Sprunt used many colored lantern slides of such birds as the robin, mocking bird, dove, and wren to help illustrate his lecture. He is a noted naturalist, has written many articles on the subject of birds, and is the southern director of bird sanctuaries under the Audubon Society. Mr. Sprunt was a member of the Class of '18 at Davidson. He served in the navy during the war, and since then has spent his time studying birds and their habits. Mr. Sprunt’s father graduated at Davidson some sixty years ago, and holds a high position in the Presbyterian Church. The lecturer's home is in Charleston, where he was formerly curator of the museum.

Symphony Band To Give Concert Here

Bohumir Kryl and His Famous Band to Open Concert Season This Year

Bohumir Kryl and his Symphony Band will open this year’s concert season on Monday, October 28 in the auditorium of Chambers Building. Kryl is a famous figure among leading bandmasters of the country. Kryl himself is a world-famous cornetist as well as conductor. This year he and his band are making their 31st annual concert tour. In the past, Kryl and his Band have proved popular at many colleges and universities throughout the country. With Kryl and his Symphony Band are three accomplished soloists each in a different field of music. Miss Josephine Kryl White is a distinguished violinist while the voice soloist is Miss Nell Kinard and there is also a harp soloist with the band, Miss Ruth Templeman. These along with Conductor Kryl’s wide variety of selections afford a diverse and highly entertaining program.

This concert was announced last week in chapel by President Lingle. At the same time, Doctor Lingle announced the complete schedule of concerts which are to be given during the academic year for the benefit of the student body, faculty, and the friends of the college. This year the committee on concerts has arranged for a series of some four or five concerts to be given at various times throughout the year.The season will offer a variety of programs ranging from soloists to the symphony band. The price for season tickets this year was also announced by President Lingle. Several books and many magazine articles were also mentioned.

REV. MARSHALL TO LEAD YMCA SERVICES
Services Will Run From October Twenty-Ninth to November First
MARSHALL NATIVE SCOT
Popular Speaker Will Hold Two Services Daily

The Reverend Peter Marshall of Atlanta, Georgia, will conduct the regular fall services at Davidson College beginning October the twenty-ninth. These services are arranged annually by the YMCA. The services will begin Tuesday, October the twenty-ninth and run through Thursday, November the first. The services are usually held from Sunday through Wednesday, but Mr. Marshall was unable to leave his church for the Sunday service.

Mr. Marshall will conduct the meeting at the regular chapel hour and Vespers at seven P.M. during these three days. The subjects of Mr. Marshall's talks have not been announced yet. Mr. Marshall will be open for appointments during the hours between the services for anyone who has a problem to bring to him. Albert McClure will arrange the appointments and they will be held in the chapel.

Peter Marshall is pastor of Westminster Presbyterian Church in Atlanta, Georgia. He graduated from the University of Glasgow, Glasgow, Scotland, and came to this country about eleven years ago. Marshall is a very popular speaker and received great acclaim when he spoke here last February. In his Sunday morning address he spoke on the text, "If you are simple, you will receive religion, if you are wise, you will believe religion." He showed that there are a great many mistaken ideas about religion and then pointed out the correct idea. In his Sunday night address, he chose as his text, "The Church and Youth, So What?" He brought out the idea that the church wants to know what the young people are going to do.

Three Plays Given By The Masquers
Three Short Dramas Are Presented by College Dramatic Organization

The Red and Black Masquers presented three one-act plays—The Red Lamp by Millard Booth, The Boor by Anton Chekhov, and The Intruder by Maurice Maeterlinck on Monday, October 7.

The Red Lamp is a delightful play concerning a red lamp which is supposed to bring good luck when lighted. A hungry tramp breaks into a house for food and recognizes in the lamp a superstition that brings good luck when lighted. The daughter of the family befriends the tramp, who leaves on the approach of the head of the strict household—a maiden lady. The boy agrees to light the lamp after his aunt has gone, as a signal to the tramp that all is clear. The daughter also agrees to use the same signal for letting her lover know that her aunt, who disapproves of the match, has left the house. The aunt herself lights the lamp as a signal to a neighbor to have tea ready. Complications ensue and the unexpected always happens.

The Boor is a farce on the eccentricities of Russian country life. It deals with a sentimental widow whose husband has just died and with the rough character—on whose land she is living. It portrays these two characters and contrasts them with masterly skill.

The Intruder is the drama that occurs in a family when one of the family, the mother, is near death. The family is all sitting around the room (Continued on Page 3).

LARGE CROWD SEES 'CATS TOP BIRDS IN FAST-MOVING GAME
STRIKER PURLOINS LAST WEEK’S PAPER

The failure of THE DAVIDSONIAN to appear last week was due to the fact that the copy for the paper did not reach the establishment of the Queen City Printing Company in Charlotte, printers for the college weekly. The copy left Davidson, according to schedule, on a midnight bus, and arrived in Charlotte some thirty minutes later. There, a man who claimed to be a representative of the company was waiting to receive it. After taking the copy, this man disappeared, and with him the news of the week. While the thief’s identity is not known, the opinion is held by members of THE DAVIDSONIAN staff that he participated in last spring’s printers’ strike, and that his action was the outgrowth of ill feeling caused at the time. Every precaution will be taken in the future to prevent a recurrence of this loss, according to those in responsible positions.

OPENING DANCES HELD IN ARMORY
Pan-Hellenics Take Place During Week-End of South Carolina Game

Davidson students turned out in gala fashion in Charlotte last week-end to celebrate the first set of school dances to be sponsored by the Pan-Hellenic council this year at Charlotte Armory-Auditorium. The dances, proving unusually successful, consisted of a formal Friday night and an informal Saturday night. Both were held in the Charlotte Armory-Auditorium. Music was furnished by the well-known Clemson Jungaleers. There were four no-break dances at each dance. The Armory was decorated with Davidson colors of Red and Black in a very picturesque manner. The orchestra was dressed in the gray Clemson military uniform. Directing the twelve-piece orchestra was Jimmy Farmer while one of his members rendered the vocal refrains. Friday night a very small crowd was in attendance but because of the football game Saturday, a larger number attended. Due to the South Carolina-Davidson football game, there was no Saturday afternoon tea dance. Among those girls attending the dance set were the following girls who received fraternity bids: (Continued on Page 6).

Six Davidson Students Apply For Scholarships

Applications for Rhodes Scholarships were turned in Monday. Five seniors and one post-graduate have applied to be recommended for this honor. Last year there were five seniors applying, and one post-graduate was recommended by Union Theological Seminary. The Oxford committee meets Tuesday or Wednesday, and the Executive committee meets Thursday, and will pass these men before sending in their names to the state committee. The would-be Rhodes Scholar must show literary and scholastic ability and attainments; all the many qualities and virtues such as: truth, courage, devotion to duty, etc.; leadership ability and moral force of character; and physical vigor. Next week the names of those approved by the committee will be published, along with a more detailed account of the requirements, and history of the Rhodes Scholarships.

Last-Quarter Tally Prevents 6-6 Tie as Pittman Crosses Goal Line
FINAL SCORE IS 13-6
“Doc” Recuperating, Sees Team’s Victory

Davidson's mighty warriors of the gridiron had no soft touch in South Carolina’s Gamecocks here Saturday, as the two teams fought beneath a merciless sun which witnessed a 13-6 win by the ‘Cats.

First Quarter
South Carolina has just taken the field followed by Davidson's black-shirted warriors amidst a howl of cheers and applause. Coach “Doc” Newton, suffering from a bad case of erysipelas, has just been propped up in two chairs on the 37-yard line, just as South Carolina prepares for the kick-off. Pittman of Davidson receives the kick-off on his own 10 and streaks down the middle of the field for 53 yards but fumbles and the ball is recovered by Farnum of the Birds. After an exchange of punts, Johnson, McClung, Williams, and Burns replace Vass. The ‘Cats fail to gain and Pittman punts 40 yards to Clary who fumbles, recovers, and then drives to the ‘Cats own 38. Alexander and Clary net first down.

Second Quarter
Verble enters for Corbin. Purdy for Burns. Verble intercepts a beautiful pass from Clary and runs five yards before being brought down from behind. Lafferty, entering the game for Davidson, fumbles, giving the ball to the Birds. However, on the next play Purdy intercepts a pass for the ‘Cats. Dennis enters for Yarborough. Lafferty snags a pass from Pittman for 20 yards. Pittman behind perfect interference runs for about 40 yards but the play is called back. The ‘Cats lose the ball on a lateral. On the next play Lafferty intercepts a Bird pass on his own 40 and steps off 30 yards. Several plays later, Vann (Continued on Page 4).

Fleagle Announces Revised NYA Rules
NYA Men Who Fail Two Subjects Will Be Dropped

“All students who are receiving NYA aid must maintain a satisfactory scholastic average, or they will be dropped from the lists,” declared Prof. O.K. Fleagle, chairman of the N.Y.A. committee, at a meeting of the N.Y.A. students Monday morning. He pointed out that last semester Davidson had more students dropped because they failed to do satisfactory work than any other college in the state, and he said that the committee would maintain this record if necessary. Prof. Fleagle said that the record of hours that each student could work is posted, and that if anyone thought that they should have more than the hours allotted, they would have to appeal before the committee. However, he said that if anyone's hours were increased that some other person's hours would be decreased by the same amount. It was pointed out that last year the problem had been to find jobs, while this year, it is necessary to cut down on these jobs, in order to come within the money allotted to students of the college. The time sheets must be turned in weekly, showing the hours worked each day. Failure to do so will result in the student’s being dropped from the list. Prof. Fleagle said that there were three lists of people who had applied for work. The first of these lists included the names of those who need work immediately. The second of these lists contained the names of those who need work, but not quite as urgently. The last list contains the names of those who need work least of all. If a person whose name is on one list thinks his status should be changed, he can appeal to the committee who will consider his case.