THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 4, 1935

HONOR ROLL
Milton, Lindsay, Branton, and Faison picked as Volleyball stars by John Partridge

Sports Afield

HONOR ROLL
Pittman, Johnson, and Lafferty are grid season's most consistent stars

By HARRY KUYKENDALL

With perfect calmness and confidence, their Wildcats left the dressing room on Gore Field at the end of the half
Thursday and forthwith proceeded to give the Deacs another annual trouncing. In fact, “Doc” Newton and Gene McEver established themselves
here as the Wildcat mentors in 1930, and without having listened to a word of reprimand or any urging on
the part of their coaches, eleven fighting Demon Deacons have been trounced ever since.

Under the Newton-McEver regime, the local grid warriors have presented Wake Forest with the last rung in the conference ladder.
The 'cats have won 18 games, lost 13, and tied five. Eleven of these contests have been lost to N.C.
State and Carolina, representing student bodies of 1900 and 3200 respectively. All victories over the 'cats have been closely contested.
Only two teams out of this state have defeated Davidson during this period, these being Army and Citadel.

The way Davidson's coaching swarmed over the Deacon line, which averaged about 195 pounds per man, was almost incredible. Every
man on the team who played, and even those that didn’t, put out their best, apparently without any noticeable effort.
Of course, Pittman again led the way, as he always does, but along with him, others performed brilliantly, too. “It's
the best game I've ever seen Davidson play,” is not only one man's opinion but, it seems, everybody's.

However, the Baptists extracted some satisfaction from the game in that it marked the swan song for 10 members of
the Red and Black squad. In addition to Paul Pittman, Swede Johnson, John Lee, Midge Verble, Baxter Yarborough, Cole Windham,
Fields Young, Henry Cathey, Wood Burns, and “Six” Johnston have expended their last efforts for Davidson. Many and various were
the praises of individual 'Cats team members. Baxter Yarborough came through in expected style. The fact that the returned punts
only 0.7 yards speaks well for Cathey, Windham, Williams, and a host of other players who are good at getting
down under those punts. Ed Armfield's 80-yard dash from an interception on his goal line is all that need be
said about him. Wood Burns did a swell job at center, Windham and Williams, up to their usual tricks, essayed
a lot of ground on passes for the team. Lafferty, we've almost given out of compliments for him, can best
be described by a quotation taken from a leading paper: “And Lafferty, who has the steam of Honey Hackney, Cowboy
Robertson, Berlinski, and Crowell Little, will be pestering Davidson opposition for two more years.”

Coach Newton, questioned at the Washington Duke Hotel prior to the game, stated that Armfield, Lafferty, Corbin, and Dennis would
probably be the backfield next year. Newton also stated that he would scout the Army-Navy game at Philadelphia (last Saturday)
in order to prepare for Navy next fall. We have an idea he saw plenty in Schmidt of Navy. Ed
Armfield, Dick Johnson, and Howard Covington, who also witnessed the classic, can enlighten any doubtful ones. Davidson’s team next year
will have a letterman in every position with the exception of center. Paul Pittman’s will be the hardest place to
fill. “Every inch the equal of Mackorell,” he has entirely dominated every game this year and although he has plenty
of competent successors, theirs will be a tough assignment. Grier Martin and Fred Blythe have issued the 1936 grid schedule,
which though not absolutely completed, is almost so. It is as follows:

(Continued on Page 5)

DUKE LEADS IN BIG FIVE RACE TO END SEASON
Wildcats Down Deacons in Final Clash of Season to Win Fourth Place

PARKER LEADS DEVILS
Duke Defeats Rose Bowl Contenders in Upset of Year

Probably the most successful football season ever experienced in North Carolina has now come to a close. Duke holds the
first position in the Big Five, having broken North Carolina's Rose Bowl hopes with a smashing victory of 25-0, and
State comes third. Davidson battled Wake Forest for a 14-7 victory, thereby gaining the fourth place in the Big Five,
while Wake Forest occupies the cellar position. North Carolina teams approached the million-dollar mark in gate receipts for the first
time in history. As shown by an Associated Press survey, Big Five teams alone played before a composite crowd of
363,380 fans, who paid about $200,000 for tickets. This does not include the Little Six, or the half-dozen junior colleges
in the state. The Duke-Carolina game drew the greatest attendance in Southern gridiron history, with a crowd of 46,880.

Paul Pittman, Davidson's star, has gained the reputation of being the best kicker seen at Davidson in many years, with
Mackorell, the best back since Coaches Newton and McEver came to Davidson four years ago. He kicked eight extra points,
and with the exception of the South Carolina game when the ball was fumbled from center, the only time Davidson
failed to make the extra point. In his whole career, Pittman has had only one kick blocked. Each member of
the Big Five is represented on the 1935 All-State team, selected by Editors of six outstanding North Carolina morning papers.
Duke and Carolina each had four representatives, while Davidson, State, and Wake Forest have one apiece. Davidson is represented by
Dick Johnson, a wonderful guard. Carolina had one of the best seasons in its history, winning eight out of nine
games, and scoring 270 points to 44 for her opponents. Their season ended on Thanksgiving with a 61-0 victory over
the University of Virginia, traditional rivals. This is the fifth season in history in which Carolina has had only one
defeat. Their team was outstanding for its good teamwork, coordination, and completion of complicated and fancy plays. They held the
national spotlight throughout the season, and until being defeated by Duke, had favorable chances of an invitation to the Rose
Bowl.

Soccer Team Will Play Seven Games
The Davidson soccer program is now in full swing. Seven games have been arranged, including contests with High Point (2),
Duke (2), Clemson, Furman, and the City of Charlotte. The two with High Point are already history and the others
will be played before Christmas. It has been definitely announced by “Doc” Unger that the team will be allowed to
use the red Freshman football jerseys. Nothing definite is known about the possibility of the players receiving minor sports letters.
Four members of the Freshman class, Oscar Armstrong, Al Bixler, Vance Kester, and Johnny Wilson, are on the first team
and will play against High Point and Charlotte. However, they will not be used in any of the other games
because of Big Five and Southern Conference rules forbidding the playing of any man in an interconference game unless he
has attended the institution for which he plays for an entire year prior to the date of the game.

GOOD Music
GOOD Company
GOOD Food
Davidson Hotel

THE DAVIDSONIAN'S ALL-STATE FOOTBALL TEAM
The following men have been chosen as representatives of the North Carolina Big Five Conference. This selection is an aggregate
of votes cast by Dan Griffin, Manager of the football team, Lamont Brown, Editor of The Davidsonian; Sam Cothrane, Yates
Faison, Dave Woodward, Bill Marquess, and O. V. Armstrong, reporters of The Davidsonian Sports staff, and the Sports Editor of
this publication.

FIRST TEAM
POSITION
Left End: Ed. West (DUKE)
Left Tackle: Gus Durner (DUKE)
Left Guard: Dick Johnson (DAV.)
Center: Steve Sabol (STATE)
Right Guard: Jim Johnston (DUKE)
Right Tackle: Tom Evins (UNC)
Right End: Andy Bershak (UNC)
Quarterback: Clarence Parker (DUKE)
Left Halfback: Paul Pittman (DAV.)
Right Halfback: Don Jackson (UNC)
Fullback: Herman Snyder (UNC)

SECOND TEAM
Ends: Dominic Cara (DAV.), Six Johnston (STATE)
Tackles: Vince Farrar (UNC), Babe Daniels (STATE)
Guards: Barnes Worth (DAV.), Henry Cathey (UNC)
Center: Dick Buck (WF)
Quarterback: Walt Kitchin (DUKE)
Halfbacks: Jack Alexander (STATE), Eddie Berlinski (UNC)
Fullback: Jim Hutchins (STATE)

THIRD TEAM
Ends: Liana (DUKE), Shore (WF)
Tackles: Brunansky (DUKE), Helms (STATE)
Guards: Joyce (UNC), Regdon (STATE)
Center: Hennemier (DUKE)
Quarterback: Montgomery (UNC)
Halfbacks: Lafferty (DAV.), Ward (DUKE)
Fullback: Hutchins (UNC)

HONORABLE MENTION
Ends: Williams (DAV.), Windham (DAV.)
Tackles: Trimpey (UNC)
Guards: Webb (UNC), Cardwell (DUKE)
Backs: Bardes (STATE), Reyneska (STATE), Hackney (DUKE), Robinson (STATE)

PRACTICES HELD FOR WRESTLING TEAM
Four Lettermen Return From Last Year’s State Championship Team

Davidson’s mat men have begun their daily workouts in preparation for the upcoming season.The schedule which begins after the Christmas
holidays. Thirty-odd members are vying for the eight places on the varsity team. Although handicapped by the graduation of the
captain of the 1935 State Champions, Fort, and Quarterman, Coach Unger holds hopes of retaining the title. The coach stated
that Fort was the best wrestler he has seen at Davidson, but also expressed confidence in Blackwelder, this year’s captain.
Coach Unger believes that with more experience Blackwelder may become as expert as last year’s captain. Four letter men are
back: Hodgins, in the 175-pound class, Blackwelder, in the 165-pound class, Owen in the 145-pound class, and Parker, in the
135-pound class. With these men as a foundation, Coach Unger hopes to build up a team which will repeat last
year’s performance. He is fairly confident that this can be done if men for the heavyweight and 155-pound class can
be developed, who will win at least one half of their matches. As Coach Unger has been busy with the
football team, the workouts have been under the direction of the four members of last year’s team. The squad has
been practicing every afternoon in the gym. This week the squad will be cut and a chart of the men
and their weights will be posted. Phifer Erwin is the senior manager of the wrestling team. For the first time,
the freshmen will have a wrestling team. This will strengthen next year's team considerably, as the men coming up will
have more training and experience.

The following freshmen are working out daily under the supervision of Parks Harrison: Telford (118), McIntyre (118), Craver (118), McEachern
(118); Graves (135), Walker (145), Woodward (145), Benfield (155), Parham (155), Ellis (165), Long (155), Friend (155), and Latimer (145).
The tentative schedule for the freshmen is as follows: Winston-Salem “Y”, Barium Springs, Greensboro High, High Point High. The definite
dates for these meets have not yet been set due to the fact that the varsity basketball and wrestling schedules
have not yet been settled definitely; and in order to avoid conflict, Coach Unger will wait to arrange the freshman
wrestling schedule.

XMAS TOYS AND DECORATIONS
SOUTHERN 5c & 10c STORE

Volley Ball Begins With Fraternities
Phi Delts Nose Out SAE’s As Pikas Trounce Phi Gams in Opening Games

In the opening contests of the inter-fraternity volleyball competition, the Phi Delts nosed out the SAE's in three games, and
the Pikas decisively trounced the Phi Gams. In their game against the SAE’s, the Phi Delts came from behind in
the last few minutes with a determined rush and finally won out. In the first game brilliant net rallies and
frequent errors by their opponents gave the Phi Delts an early lead of one game. In the second game the
SAE’s seemed to find new life, and they dominated the play throughout the game, winning it. In the deciding game,
with the lead see-sawing, the SAE’s pulled ahead 19-18 with the ball in their possession, and victory seemed within their
grasp. However, the serve was a fault, and the Phi Delts rushed across the necessary three points to win. Jack
Lee, Bill Boyd, Buddy Rainey, and Ralph McClelland stood out for the winners; George Matthis, Mark Cauble, Buddy Newton, Holk
Robinson, and Neill Whitlock starred for the losers. The Pikas found the going tough all the way, but their accurate
passing and “killing” never left much doubt as to the final outcome. The Pikas got going in fine shape from
the first few points, and although the Phi Gams showed more team-play, the superior height and experience slowly but surely
pulled the Pikas to the front. In the second game, the Phi Gams showed signs of tying the score, but
the Pikas asserted their superiority and closed the contest in two straight games. For the Phi Gams, Lawrence Reid and
Bill Kiesewetter dominated the play; while Sam Milton, Bull Durham, Walt Dixon, and Billy Archer led the Pikas to victory.

CHAPMAN TO CUT FROSH QUINTET
Freshman Basketeers to Meet Paw Creek in First Contest of Season

The freshman basketball squad of thirty will be narrowed down to fifteen for the first game on December 10. The
Wildkittens will soon be selected for the meeting with Paw Creek, state champions and invariably a strong team. Action in
class games has pointed out several potential first-string men for the yearling quintet. The scrimmages held during practice every evening
will also determine the freshman varsity. Jack and Ned Iverson, both six-footers, will form the nucleus of the team with
Lee at center and Iverson playing center or forward. John Tice, Grant Johnson, J. D. Hicks, N. B. McCulloch, H.
Mauney, and N. B. Brown are leading contestants for forward positions. W. B. Gaw, J. H. Edgerton, H. Mauney, and
S. M. Hemphill may play as guards. Others that are trying for recognition are Tom Bettis, Perry Sloan, Frank Willingham,
Locke White, Tom Hackney, Nesbitt Elmore, Marion Lanier, M. H. Alcorn, T. J. Turner, Allen Steele, Bill Boyd, Cage Brewer,
B. Dick Taylor, C. W. Sample, Horace McCall, and Stitt Robinson. “Chet” Chapman has taken over the coaching of the
freshman team from Grier Martin, who has been the Wildkitten mentor for several years past. Balls Creek High School will
meet the Wildkittens on December 16, and Paw Creek will play a return engagement. The tentative schedule after the winter
holidays includes Belmont Abbey (2), Wingate (2), Wofford (2), State (2), and Wake Forest (2).

FAUL AND CRYMES, INC.
SPORTING GOODS
415 South Tryon Street
Charlotte, N. C.

What To Give For Christmas
WE HAVE THE SOLUTION TO YOUR CHRISTMAS GIFT PROBLEM
Give PHOTOGRAPHS
SPECIAL RATES ON CHRISTMAS ORDERS
SEE MAL GRIMES, JR., 9 GA.
Orders Received Now Will Be Filled By Dec. 19th.

DAVIDSON STARS GAIN PLACES ON ALL-STATE TEAM
Dick Johnson Gets Unanimous Approval of Scribes as Outstanding Guard
MANY CHOOSE PITTMAN
“Six” Johnston and Co-captain Cathey Also Rank High

King Football has run his course except for a few games here and there and the annual Bowl games. Now
the mania for selecting mythical all-star teams has descended on the sport scribes, and each of them is racking his
brain in the weeding-out process to determine the final selections. The All-State teams have been picked by different editors, and,
as there were many differences of selection, here are a few of the more important picks: Probably the most authentic
selection to date was published by the All-State Board, composed of the leading sports editors throughout the state. To overcome
the difference of opinion, each was required to submit his choice of a first and a second team. A vote
for the first team counted two points and selection on a second team counted one point; thus the players were
ranked in proportion, and in accordance with, the number of points they polled. The first official team was composed of
the following: Ends—West (Duke) and Bershak (Carolina); Tackles—Evins (Carolina) and Durner (Duke); Guards—Dick Johnson (Davidson) and Jim Johnston (Duke); Center—Sabol
(N. C. State); Backs—Parker (Duke), Jackson (Carolina), Kitchin (Wake Forest), and Hutchins (Carolina). The second team is as follows: Ends—Buck
(Carolina) and Cara (N. C. State); Tackles—Farrar (N. C. State) and Trimpey (Carolina); Guards—Daniels (Carolina) and Worth (N. C. State);
Center—Henemier (Duke); Backs—Pittman (Davidson), Alexander (Duke), Bardes (N. C. State), and Ward (Duke). Co-captain Henry Cathey and “Six” Johnston, two
tackles, were included in the group receiving honorable mention. Chauncey Durden, sports commentator for the Charlotte News, differed with the
Board’s pick, and he picked Davidson’s Paul Pittman for one of the first-string backfield berths. His backfield lineup would consist
of Parker, Jackson, Pittman, and “Hump” Snyder (Carolina). In picking Pittman, he said the final reason for this choice was
the way Paul (Continued on Page 6)

DICK JOHNSON
GUARD
Davidson's

BUSINESS
2 pairs $1.00 —75c and $1.00 pair
Men that go places and do things... Interwoven shows good taste. They wear longer... important to cost. They're better fitting...
which assures greater comfort.
J. B. IVEY & CO.
Charlotte, N. C.
