THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 27, 1935

The Davidsonian

Founded by the Class of 1916

Associated Collegiate Press 1934 Collegiate Digest 1935

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

Printed by the QUEEN CITY PRINTING COMPANY Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: Ten cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate year. Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879.

ARTICLES FOR PUBLICATION must be in the hands of Managing Editors by 4:00 o'clock p.m., Monday. Letters to the Editor are welcome, but all communications intended for publication must be signed.

K. D. WEEKS .......... Editor
J. A.C. WADSWORTH ... Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
Martin BARNETT ........ Managing Editor
B. A. GUHARIAN ........ Managing Editor
SLOAN MARCHAN ........ Managing Editor
John WALKER .......... Managing Editor
Harvey Glass .......... Managing Editor
Lamont Brown .......... Sports Editor
HINDY BOWERS ......... Exchange Editor
GARDNER WISE ......... Feature Editor
Scotty McLrop .......... Circulation Manager
G. L. GUNNENEK ......... Associate Editor
E. F. McPHAIL .......... Associate Editor
JACK HELLINGER ........ Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
B. S. Says ............ Asst. Business Manager
R. BraVILORROW ....... Asst. Business Manager
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 1935

A word or a nod from the good has more weight than the eloquent speeches of others.—Plutarch.

ATHLETICS—PART OF A COLLEGE CAREER

All of us know that every college has an athletic program; but just why physical development should be part of an educational career is not a certain fact to all our minds. Primarily, the college stands for mental development and brain prowess. We think of a college degree as a certificate of intelligence, not as an award for physique or manliness. The college graduate is supposedly prepared to face the world insofar as knowledge is concerned. But there is little or no emphasis on the physical preparation which the degree-holder should have. That he should have this other phase of preparation is becoming increasingly apparent. The fact that mental and physical efficiency are coordinate factors in the ideal man cannot now be obviated. The college aims at the development of the ideal man; in the past, stress has been laid on development of the mind. In very recent years the importance of athletics in the program of all undergraduates has become more palpable. Definite intra-mural programs of active sports are being carried out in all our colleges and more bona fide students are reporting for varsity athletics. Cue-pushers and checker-jumpers are giving way to ball-dribblers, pigskin-carriers, and net-smashers. In other words, it seems that we are beginning to realize in college the value of developing a sound body as well as an active mind.

This spring, the “D” Club at Davidson is urging every able-bodied student to report for some form of athletics. Too small a percentage of the undergraduate group is content to watch the performance of others rather than enter the field of active competition. You contend that you are not experienced or good enough to make the team. Our coaches are here to train and to develop just that type of man. Here is the chance for experience and a great opportunity for promoting self-strength and personal health.

Athletics in college serve four very definite purposes: First, they bring to the institution, through student representation, a certain amount of public notice. Through its athletes a college is known; it has always been a proud fact in Davidson history that its athletes were not merely brutes of brawn but men of knowledge and character. This inter-development of physique and learning is what we most desire. Off our own campus, Davidson College is known largely by its athletes and teams. That our foreign impression should be wholesome it is necessary to have the right type of athlete. Second, athletics serve to promote a school spirit. Through our athletic teams we gain our reputation for good or bad spirit. Third, the health of the individual students undergoes inestimable benefit from participation in athletics. And fourth, athletics build cooperation and teamwork. It is not difficult to see the advantages of athletic life in college. Let us all do our best to develop both sides of our undergraduate life—physical and mental—H. S. M.

CONGRATULATIONS TO THE WRESTLING TEAM

The Davidsonian is indeed happy to join with the entire student body in congratulating the Wildcat wrestlers and their coach, “Doc” Unger, upon winning the State Championship as the result of their rousing victory over N. C. State last Friday night.

Handicapped by injuries, Coach Unger’s charges put on a wonderful exhibition of courage, endurance, and skill to win an uphill battle over their opponents in a match which was to determine the State Championship. Comment about the campus since last Friday night has been of little else than praise for these men. Davidson is justly proud to be represented by an athletic team of this kind which has so excellently exemplified her high ideals of sportsmanship and which has brought her recognition. And the coach deserves no small part of the credit for the success of the team. He has worked with and developed into skilled wrestlers men, who previous to entering college were inexperienced in the art of wrestling. Neither does he have a freshman squad to draw from, for freshman wrestling is not included in the athletic program of the college. The whole campus joins in congratulating the wrestling squad and its coach upon so successful a season and all the hard work that lies back of it.

I. R. C. CONFERENCE IS A BIG SUCCESS

The South East District Conference of International Relations held here February twenty-first through the twenty-third was a decided success and speaks well for the local club which was host. The smooth way in which the routine of the convention was run off and the interest shown by the delegates is adequate proof that much careful planning had been done by the executives. Apparently, the meet was a success from every angle. The Davidson students cooperated nicely by providing entertainment for the delegates at the various fraternity houses. The townspeople are to be commended for the way in which they received the delegates in their homes. As a result of their cooperation the hundred and fifty-eight delegates, about thirty more than were expected, were provided places to sleep.

Four men are due most of the credit for the outcome of the convention, for these four men bore the brunt of making plans and preparations and, for several weeks previous to the time of the convention, spent most of their time in efforts to make the meet a success. Charles Lucas, President of the local International Relations Club, together with Grier Martin, Alumni secretary, whose services proved invaluable, made most of the preparations and secured the speakers who were present for the occasion. Lamont Brown and Warner DuBose did well their difficult task of securing places for the delegates to stay. These men are to be congratulated for their fine work. Several members of the faculty took active parts in the discussion groups and were very willing whenever they could help.

The conference was a fine thing in the way of publicity for Davidson College. There were in attendance at the conference one hundred and fifty-eight official delegates representing fifty-four different institutions in seven states. Every state in the district except Florida was represented. The other seven states in the district all of which sent delegates are Tennessee, Mississippi, Alabama, Georgia, South Carolina, Virginia, and North Carolina. As well as could be learned, there were no adverse criticisms from the visitors, and all seemed to have been impressed with the friendly spirit which prevails on the Davidson College campus.

THE COLLEGIATE REVIEW

President Glenn Frank, of the University of Wisconsin, Madison, and Dr. George S. Counts, of Columbia University (New York City), will appear on the program to commemorate the 75th anniversary of the founding of Louisiana State University (Baton Rouge), April 4-13.

Policemen students are being taught “police science” in several short courses being offered in the teacher-training departments of several universities.

Iowa State College students who were given special reading improvement courses were able to increase their reading speed 35 percent in 20 days.

There are approximately 1,500,000 living college graduates in the United States.

More than one-half of the 140 college graduates who are Rhodes scholars and over 40 years in age are listed in “Who’s Who in America.”

Twelve of the 18 students initiated into Phi Beta Kappa at Northwestern University (Evanston, Ill.) this year were co-eds.

A proposal for the “open subsidization” of college athletes is now being considered by the members of the Pennsylvania Association of College Students.

Ohio State University (Columbus) contributed $43,367 to the federal and state governments last fall as taxes on its five home football games.

COMPASSING THE CAMPUS
By Scotty McLrop

The student body responded in wholehearted fashion to the appeal of Charlie Lucas for all Davidsonians to cooperate with the local I. R. C.’s in entertaining the visiting delegates here last week. So enthusiastic was the welcome, that some of the visitors found little time to attend the meetings and discussions but seemed to prefer more secluded company.

A fire on Friday afternoon produced great excitement in the ranks of the conventioners; they poured forth from drug stores, fraternity houses, and busy discussion groups to answer the call of the trenchant fire alarm bell. Arriving on the scene of action, which was in a vacant lot aside Mrs. Robinson's sick-house, some forty boys proceeded to douse the fire. This act being accomplished, there was little to do for the next thirty minutes but stand around and ogle at the female delegates until the handsome new Davidson fire-truck arrived. The red wagon and hose outfit finally negotiated the block which intervenes between its customary place of storage and the conflagration aforementioned. With much ado, the hoses and intricate fire extinguishing paraphernalia were produced to the amazement of all the bystanders. Again the fire was put out. This time ina much more effective and business-like manner, the firemen having been trained in such matters just what to do and what not to do. The fire is still out. Just what it is that was burned is not certain unless it was some stray grass, a log cabin, or a picket fence.

At the wrestling matches Friday night with N. C. State, which won for Davidson the state title in the mat sport, we saw the largest crowd of students and visitors ever to attend a grappling bout in the local gymnasium. This statement is provisioned by the fact that we have no certain knowledge on the topic, but it certainly appeared to be the biggest turnout in years. We may refer to wrestling as a sport which is undergoing a decided revival hereabouts. The cheering and intense spirit which was manifest this season serves as a proper indication of the rising popularity of the sport of Londos, Dean, and Forte on the Davidson campus. Coach Doc Unger has produced from good material the best team in the state—all are smart wrestlers.

The gag-of-the-month contest being sponsored by Lorenzo McPhail’s Yow! ends March 1, at which time a carton of Life Savers will be presented to the humorous man who produces the most facetious story to a member of the wit-mag staff. This contest is an incentive for everybody to join the Yow! staff by trying to be funny like the present editors and their cohorts.

The inseparables have been separated. Damon has lost his Pythias. Kayo and Shadow are parted. By a ruling of the college authorities, the friendly Great Dane of Gus Maynard had to leave these parts. Gus sent the Gargantuan canine to Bluefield and Shadow is still moping around waiting for the world to come to an unhappy end. The two dogs had developed a loving friendship and were constant companions until Kayo was shipped from school because he was an “undesirable.” It is rumored that Shadow will probably quit school soon unless the authorities will reinstate his roommate and old college friend.

According to an article in a Greensboro newspaper, riding pants are breeches of etiquette. Which reminds us of the superfluity of snakes among our student body. We won't mention any names, but a Phi Gam football tackle, the manager of the debate team, and the roommate of Tom Ross, together with the Phi Delt Junior football manager make up a list of the reptiles which is hard to overcome. Snaking is their favorite pastime, as well as mine.

Audited or witnessed: John Siewers escorting Dot Dockery (Meredith I. R. C. delegate) to the wrestling bouts... Cowboy West snaking on the same job... The impeccable dresser, Percy Rogers, with Miss I. R. C. from Sweetbriar while Blue Boy Brewer was attentive to a Georgia lady... Velvet-clad Ann Putney, of Virginia, with Sam Hutaff during Friday last... Bob Lindsey renamed his girl, Alice Bluegown.

OUR CONTEMPORARIES By Eni Bowers

Frosh Mixer A Colossal Flop

The Frosh Mixer, the first outstanding social event of the semester and grand get-together for lonely freshmen hearts at George Washington University, is admitted by the University Hatchet to have been one tremendous flop. The band was there in full uniform and the Glee Club was present to troop in for the rendition of the Alma Mater. President Marvin, Dean Johnstone, and members of the speaking program were all set to deliver stirring speeches of friendship. The cheerleaders were ready to lead thunderous cheers. In spite of this carefully arranged and imposing program, the audience was sadly weak in numbers. In fact, after a minute of search of the large gym prepared for the event, two lone freshmen were at last found patiently waiting in the midst of a wilderness of vacant seats.

Love Will Find A Way

The glowing example of true love power was set the other day at State College. When preparing to embark on his standing Sunday night date, a sophomore was only momentarily deterred by some playful party or parties who had locked his door. As the hour for his date grew near, he became desperate and out of this state a plan was born; very simple, he just dropped out of the second-story window. The determined lover arrived at his destination bruised, breathless, a trifle late but convinced that Love will find a way.

Let’s Go Fishing

After the new song, the University of California recently added a course in elementary fishing to the curriculum. Practice is to be held in the university swimming pool.

Results

There were 5,000 couples at the University of Texas mid-winter dances. At the dances given by Northwestern University, there were 2,000 couples.

Fate Took A Hand

A women’s rooming house at the University of Minnesota received a new inmate. Within an hour, some of the other girls called frantically the head of the school in which the inmate was a student to learn if homework was necessary in her courses. For she had enrolled in a course of embalming.

Fine For The Fraternities

Fraternities still hold their grip on most of the posts of honor in college activities. The National Student Federation surveyed 35 universities and unearthed that exactly 440 student council members are fraternity men while 116 are independent; that fraternities have 427 captains and managers with only 62 unaffiliated; eighty-one editors and class officers and social committee chairmen are independents, while 434 are Greeks. But the eye-opener is that of the 27 colleges which reported scholastic averages, over half stated that independents had better academic grades than the Greeks.

Politics And The Future

What the future holds as figured out by the students in the University of Minnesota Law School: “A” men make the teachers, “B” men make the judges, “C” men make the money, “and,” added a wit, “the ‘D’ men make the Congressmen.”

Easy Come

Some enterprising youths at the University of California have a nice little business plan. They have a secretary and a lot of note-takers who attend all the lectures. Then all the boys go around and sell the notes. The authorities are in a quandary now, since the students who buy the notes do not see fit to attend classes, and as a result, the classrooms are quite depopulated.

China

The government of China has decreed that military training in all colleges in Canton, China, shall be compulsory.

14 Lbs. of Pennies

Approximately fourteen pounds of pennies went to pay the February board bill of John L. Sullivan, freshman. Clerks in the treasurer’s office were greatly surprised when the student passed $16 in one-cent pieces over the counter. Contrary to the belief that the fellow had had unusually good luck in playing a slot machine, he seems to have secured the pennies while working in a store, they representing proceeds from the North Carolina sales tax. When the tax collector came around, Sullivan swapped him bills for the “brownies.”

From DAVIDSONIANS IT WAS NEWS of Years Gone By

FIVE YEARS AGO

Davidson trustees elect Dunn as president of board... Converse Glee Club to render concert here... Battalion reviewed by visiting general... Fourteen men bid by honorary fraternities... Faculty entertains seniors with party... Wildcat wrestlers overcome by Army... State, Duke, Carolina quintets overcome Wildcats in state trip... Wildkittens end state trip with one win and two losses in Big Five... Virginia matmen beaten by Davidson... School record broken by rifle team.

TEN YEARS AGO

Wildcats win four games in great trip through Virginia... Wildkittens lose four combats on state trip... Glee Club visits Queens... Peabody College guests addressed by Dr. Hood... Delegates attend conclave at Chapel Hill.

FIFTEEN YEARS AGO

Wildcat quintet wins over University of South Carolina by 27-25... Magnificent banner received by R. O. T. C.... Excellent program planned for Junior Speaking... Davidson downs Wofford, 38-17.

Commencement Invitations Visiting Cards Fraternity Publications

P. 1 and F ity Stati y 1143 E. FOURTH ST. K. D. WEEKS Fine Printing QUEEN CITY PRINTING CO. Representatives CHARLOTTE, N. C., JOE WADSWORTH