THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 24, 1935

SERIAL PROVIDES CAMPUS THRILLS

Davidson College students are in for a grand treat—a new serial. Every Saturday for the next eleven weeks, if they are forced to hang around the old school for that long, they can live for a short, breath-taking thirty minutes in “The Lost City,” a hidden power plant nestling in the wilds of South Africa, which is running at the Davidson movie house. Wild beasts, gruesome black giants, vivid electrical storms, native tribes, bewhiskered white traders, gigantic power units, deformed specimens of mankind, mighty laboratories, a brave American, a beautiful girl in trouble, and a powerful master-mind of the underworld are all scrambled into this exciting melodrama.

In the opening chapter, a human monster has assembled a great power unit in the heart of unexplored Africa with which, by charging the atmosphere, he plans to destroy the world. Our hero, locating his hidden city with his new detector, starts with an expedition to wipe him from the earth. Meanwhile, the snake has forced an old inventor to fashion for him an enlarging machine, with which he molds captured natives into weird black giants. The American expedition pushes toward the Lost City. The blackguard discovers them and lays a perfect ambush.

High-Grade Freshmen Often Finish Lower
(Associated Collegiate Press)

Freshmen, who get off to a flying start in their studies, tend to slack off during the rest of their undergraduate years, and fail to make Phi Beta Kappa, the goal of all studiously-inclined undergraduates, a study made by “The Michigan Daily,” University of Michigan paper, proves. In the graduating class of 1931, out of 49 Phi Beta Kappas, only twenty had made first-year honorary societies, and in the 1932 graduates, 26 out of 53 Phi Betes had been honored in their freshman year. In 1933 and 1934, 16 and 17, respectively, finished as they had started, out of a total of 46 and 36 for the two respective years who were awarded Senior keys of scholarship. Records of Phi Beta Kappa show that, since 1924, 46 percent of its membership are women. During the same period, women have constituted approximately one-third of the total university enrollment, giving one-third of the student body almost one-half of the honors.

Federal Aid Research Said To Be Impending
(Associated Collegiate Press)

Proposing a two-year emergency fund of $50,000,000 to be set aside by the federal government to provide temporary compensation in fellowships to outstanding college graduates, Anton J. Carlson, professor at the University of Chicago, emphasized the need for a practical policy of extending federally financed research in America, in a speech here recently. “A corps of scientific investigators engaged in research would enable any first-class institution with a graduate school to do society a great deal of good,” Prof. Carlson declared. Speaking before a group of graduate and undergraduate research students in the physical and biological sciences which has petitioned the federal government for employment at wage levels sufficient for their full support, Prof. Carlson told them that “the government doesn’t owe you a living. You will have to take what you can get, along with the man in the street.”

John Lee, President Of Sigma Delta Psi

John Lee, of Barium Springs, was elected president for next year to succeed Fritz Byerly, Greensboro, last week at a meeting of Sigma Delta Psi, national honorary fraternity. To qualify for membership in this fraternity a man must be a good all-around athlete and must fill certain requirements in a large number of athletic activities.

Our Fine Materials and Expert Workmanship Make BUFF The Shoe Shop For Every College Man.
BUFF SHOE SHOP
DAVIDSON, N. C.

College Abandons Old Grade System
(Associated Collegiate Press)

Doing away with the alphabetical system of grading, professors and instructors at Russell Sage College for Women (Troy, N. Y.) gave out their first marks here recently under a new system which either passes, fails, or conditions the students. The new plan is a part of the program to put more responsibility on the student. As a substitute for the usual A, B, C system of grading, monthly conferences between the student and her instructors have been held. These conferences reveal the weaknesses of the student’s work more directly than marks, help to develop the power of the student to evaluate her own work, and assist her in forming effective study habits, J. L. Meader, president of the college, pointed out. By means of a key number system, which assigns a number to each student, the administration maintains a list of the standings of each class. Students desiring to know where they stand in relation to their classmates are given their own number.

SPECIAL DEGREE FOR HONOR WORK AT PENN

Students at the University of Pennsylvania who achieve exceptional recognition in a particular field will be given a special degree as a result of action taken by the university trustees following a recommendation by the college faculty. According to Dr. Paul H. Musser, dean of the college, the faculty recommended the plan in the belief that it would prove of exceptional value to those who contemplated graduate study or research work. While working for the new degree, students will be able to specialize to a limited extent during their undergraduate years and at the same time there will be no change in the general broad program of cultural education to which the college is committed.

Our Service Speaks For Itself
Visit Us Before The Dances
Norton’s Barber Shop

Music Department Goes To Camel City

The Davidson College Glee Club and Orchestra went Saturday to Winston-Salem to participate in an Easter cantata entitled “The Seven Last Words of Christ” by Dubois. The cantata was presented in Memorial Hall of Salem College Saturday night at 8:00 o’clock as a part of the Moravian Easter services. The chorus, consisting of 160 voices, an orchestra of thirty pieces, and soloists Mrs. Straley, soprano; Howard Conrad, tenor, and Wilson Angel, bass, were conducted by Professor Pfohl of Davidson. After the conclusion of the cantata, the members of the Davidson organizations were given a reception at the home of Professor Pfohl’s father, Bishop J. K. Pfohl. They also attended the Easter Morning Sunrise services, returning to Davidson Sunday morning.

Students Prove Deans Are Quite Unnecessary
(Associated Collegiate Press)

Living under rules of their own making without fear of the wrath of the dean, student residents of Sims Hall, Syracuse University dormitory, have raised their scholastic averages more than 20 percent over those of a year ago. Under the direction of Gordon Barclay, head proctor, and an especially selected group of fifteen graduate advisers, a system of closer personal contact between students and instructors has been put in effect, with the result that 66 percent of the students this year earned better than a C average, while last year only 45 percent attained this rating.

ALUMNUS NOW AT PRINCETON

W. O. Puckett, of the class of ’27, has just been appointed assistant professor of zoology at Princeton University. While a student at Davidson, Puckett majored in biology and served as assistant in that subject. The year following his graduation he was awarded a fellowship at the University ofNorth Carolina, where he also served as assistant in the department. Later he won a fellowship at Princeton University, which institution conferred upon him the degree of Ph.D. in January, 1934. He is at present on the faculty of Southwestern at Memphis, Tennessee, but will take up his new duties at Princeton in the fall. "The Essentials of Christian Living."

Gwynn Directs Faculty Conference At Raleigh

Dr. P. H. Gwynn, head of the department of education and psychology at Davidson, directed the faculty conference on Student Counseling held at Raleigh during the past week. The Davidson professor spoke on “Diagnosing Student Difficulties.” Other speakers from the state were Dean Francis Bradshaw and Dr. Harry Crane of the University of North Carolina. Another conference was one on Student Religious Problems held at Winthrop College. Dr. Gwynn spoke on “Current Social Trends which Should Interest a Christian Association” and on “The Essentials of Christian Living.”

New Student Body Officers Are Installed

(Continued from Page 1)

...congratulated them upon their choice of Henry Cathey as next year’s president. Cathey also thanked the students for their cooperation. K. D. Weeks, former editor of The Davidsonian, conducted Lamont Brown to the platform, after Cathey’s installation, and addressed the audience on behalf of the weekly paper. He expressed his appreciation to the students and to the faculty for their interest and cooperation. He concluded by giving the motto of The Davidsonian to Lamont Brown, incoming editor. Bob Smith, editor of the '35 annual, after conducting the next year’s editor, Martin Barnett, to the platform, thanked the students for their response in having individual pictures taken, the honorary and social fraternities, and all other organizations for their cooperation and efforts in collecting material. He then presented Martin Barnett with a copy of the '34 annual as a token of the editorship, along with the “dirty work” accompanying it. Barnett responded with a short appeal for the same type of ready cooperation. Lorenzo McPhail, outgoing editor of the Yowl, installed the new editor of the humor magazine, “Scotty” McLeod, with a fluent address to the student body. Finally, Fred McPhail, chairman and outgoing president of the Senior class, conducted Bob Lindsay to the stage and presented him with the gavel, as representative of that office. McPhail congratulated the students on their choice, and Lindsay responded with a desire for unity and loyalty among all the classes besides the Senior class. The installation ceremonies were concluded with the singing of the college song, “O Davidson.”

Retiring President

(Continued from Page 1, Col. 5)

...equilibrium and his popularity waxed rather than waned, and the ovation which followed his farewell address Monday is indicative of the esteem in which he is held today. Elected almost by acclamation to the presidency of the student body, he immediately exhibited in this office those qualities of leadership which had been so apparent in his other efforts. From the first, his handling of the judicial affairs of the student body through the student council showed his innate ability as a jurist and promised for him a brilliant career in his chosen profession. His convictions, once determined, were not swayed by opposition or desire for approbation. His democracy was unquestioned, and in all of his activities as head of the council his sense of justice was evident. So complete was the confidence of the student body in their president that he was able to counsel it and direct its thought along sane lines, in spite of apparently insurmountable difficulties. There were occasions during the year when the student body needed criticism, and at these times Brown never hesitated to point out its shortcomings. Instead of producing adverse reaction, this criticism brought applause even from those who were the object of the censure. In addition to his work as student body president, Brown was one of the leading scholars in his class, was the best debater Davidson has had for many years, was a successful and constructive president for O. D. K. leadership fraternity, and served as head of his social fraternity, Beta Theta Pi. For several years, campus sentiment had been in favor of a change in the social system at Davidson, but nothing concrete along this line had been done. Inspired by the force of Brown's leadership, seventy-five percent of the upperclassmen formed themselves into a unified group to promote the moving of Davidson dances to the campus. Under his direction, a conservative yet effective agitation has been carried on to bring about this result. His handling of the situation brought high commendation even from those who were strongly opposed to the movement. His ability is recognized and appreciated not only on the campus but also among the alumni, trustees, and the outside world in general. Following his presentation of the petition to the trustees in February, one member of the board asked him to come to his church to preach. His speaking ability has brought many invitations to make addresses in cities in the surrounding territory. Following a talk made before the alumni chapter in Greenville, S. C., an alumnus asked to be introduced to Brown, saying that he would like to shake hands with the man who was some day going to be president of the United States. In the opinion of many, this man from Hackensack, New Jersey, is the best student body president that Davidson has ever had. His success at Davidson gives promise of an even greater career at the Harvard Law School and in after life. This editorial bespeaks in a small way the gratitude and devotion of his fellow students and other friends, and assures him that Davidson will always have a place in her heart for him.

SAVE TIME and MONEY

DAVIDSON, N. C.

We serve the best meals at the lowest cost. Service and Courtesy Our Motto

THE LITTLE PEP

CHARLOTTE, N. C.

I was working way late at the office one night and ran out of cigarettes. When Jim the watchman came through, I tackled him for a smoke. “Sure,” said Jim, and he handed over a pack of Chesterfields. "Go ahead, Mr. Kent, take three or four.” Jim said he'd smoked a lot of cigarettes in his time, but he’d put Chesterfield up in front of any of ’em when it came to taste. “and they ain't a bit strong either,” is the way Jim put it. That was the first Chesterfield I ever smoked. And I’m right there with him, too, when he says it’s a good cigarette.