THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 10, 1935

Y.M.C.A. Spring Services Will Have Redhead As Speaker

Prominent Young Minister Will Hold Services Here For Four Days

HAS BRILLIANT RECORD

Rev. Redhead Will Hold Conferences With Students

Rev. John A. Redhead will be the speaker for the annual Y.M.C.A. Spring Services which will be held from April 14-17. Mr. Redhead is one of the most outstanding young preachers in the Southern Presbyterian Church. His record at college and at the seminary was brilliant, and his understanding of college students makes him a popular speaker in schools and colleges.

A native of Mississippi, Mr. Redhead attended college at Southwestern in Memphis, Tenn., where he was a member of Sigma Upsilon and Kappa Sigma fraternities, and made letters in both football and basketball. After receiving his A.B. degree from Southwestern in 1926, he went to Union Theological Seminary in Richmond, Va., where he received B.D. and Th.M. degrees. He was honored by receiving a Hodge Fellowship during the years 1929 and 1930.

The spring services will follow the usual schedule. Mr. Redhead will preach at the regular morning church service on Sunday, April 14, and again at the vesper service that night. On Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday Mr. Redhead will speak at the chapel hour and at 7:00 p.m. in the evening. Classes will be arranged so as to allow a longer period than usual for the chapel talks.

Students who may wish to talk privately with Mr. Redhead will be able to make arrangements for such interviews by seeing A. B. McClure, Y.M.C.A. secretary.

Changes Made In Curriculum

Three Sciences Affected As Courses Are Altered

Several changes have been made in the Davidson Mathematics and Astronomy Departments for the coming year. Astronomy 1, which formerly has been taught by Prof. W. W. Wood, will be taught by Prof. H. E. Fulcher. This course will be taught, as in the past, as a purely descriptive course open to juniors and seniors.

Physics 9A, formerly taught by Professor Fulcher, will be taught by Professor Wood. This is a year’s course in mechanics open to juniors and seniors who have had Mathematics 3 or who are taking it in connection with Physics 9A. This course has been semestered, so that one may receive credit for taking only one semester.

Applied Mathematics 1, a semester course in plane surveying, will be continued under the tuition of Professor Wood. But Applied Mathematics 1, also a semester course, will be discontinued, and in its place, Professor Wood will teach a new course, the Mathematics of Investments. This course is planned for those who intend to enter business, especially banking and insurance. It is open to all sophomores, juniors, and seniors who have had Mathematics 1.

WBT Cancels Program Of Spanish Fraternity

The radio program to be presented on the night of Wednesday, April 10, by the local chapter of Sigma Delta Pi, national honorary Spanish fraternity, has been called off by Radio Station WBT of Charlotte to give the hour scheduled for the program for commercial advertising.

The program, which was to celebrate Pan-American Day, consisted of a talk by Prof. F. K. Fleagle, entitled “Pan-American Day and Its Celebration,” and a talk, “Sigma Delta Pi, Its History, and What It Stands For,” by Hugh Yelverton. This program will probably be presented in chapel some time next week. The members of Sigma Delta Pi and of the Spanish Club will meet tonight, April 10, to discuss presenting the program at the chapel hour.

To Hold Services

The Reverend Mr. John A. Redhead, who will speak for the annual Y.M.C.A. spring services on April 14-17.

ORGAN CONCERT GIVEN BY PFOHL

Music Of Director And Glee Club Well Received At Winston-Salem

Davidson College was represented at the annual meeting of the North Carolina Federation of Music Clubs by the college glee club and Professor and Mrs. J. C. Pfohl. The meeting was held in Winston-Salem, April 3, 4, and 5.

Professor Pfohl presented an organ concert Thursday evening, April 4, in St. Paul's Episcopal Church. Immediately after, the Mozart Club of Winston-Salem presented Mendelssohn's oratorio, “Elijah.” Among the soloists in this chorus were Mrs. Errett Straley, soprano, and Wilson Angel, once winner of the National Atwater Kent audition contest. Incidentally, Mr. Angel will give a concert at Davidson College, April 23, as the final concert of the series.

Friday morning, the Davidson glee club was received by an appreciative audience. This organization was the only group accorded an encore on the entire program. At that time also, Louise Nelson Pfohl presented several piano numbers. The members of the glee club were the guests of the federation at luncheon, and were, through the courtesy of the Civic Music Association, admitted to the concert of Joseph Levinne, world-famous pianist.

Professor H. E. Fulcher Lectures At Luncheon

Prof. H. E. Fulcher, of the Davidson College Physics Department, gave a talk at a meeting of the Charlotte Engineers Club which was held in the dining room at Efird’s Department Store last Monday. Professor Fulcher chose as his topic for the occasion “Thoughts On the Invisible.” In explaining his subject for the address, he said that there are very definite limits to the powers of the microscope and telescope and that the scientist of the future will have to draw on his imagination to some extent to picture the physical phenomena which may exist beyond human vision. Modern science, he said, has been studying entities such as the electron, proton, positron, deuteron, and neutron, all of which are in the sub-microscopic world.

Our Fine Materials and Expert Workmanship Make BUFF The Shoe Shop For Every College Man.

BUFF SHOE SHOP DAVIDSON, N. C.

Delightful Meals and Sandwiches Served At All Hours Famous For Good Waffles

Eat With Us And Save Money

LITTLE PEP SANDWICH SHOP DAVIDSON, N. C.

Among the GREEKS

BETA THETA PI

The Phi Alpha Chapter will be host to the Beta Theta Pi District Convention, which will meet here next weekend. Two alumni members who visited the chapter last weekend are John Marvin, '33, and Jimmie Halverstadt, '34. The chapter held its installation of officers last Thursday night.

PI KAPPA ALPHA

Beta Chapter is planning a feed for April 27, and a house party on May 25. Brother Doug Neal is in the hospital at Mooresville, recovering from an operation for appendicitis. Brother W. B. Moore is confined to his home in Cramerton, N. C., with whooping cough.

KAPPA ALPHA

Sigma Chapter gave a feed on Wednesday, March 27, and a feed Sunday night, at which they had as their guests Professor McGavock and Misses Mary Louise and Susan Moffett.

SIGMA ALPHA EPSILON

Brother Kenneth Fryfogle is confined to the infirmary with a sore throat. Brother Addison Brenizer, who is now a student at Princeton, visited the chapter while he was in Charlotte on his spring vacation. The annual senior house party is planned for April 19 and 20, at Blowing Rock, N. C.

KAPPA SIGMA

Delta Chapter announces the initiation of Charles Brown of Charlotte. The chapter held a feed on Sunday night and is planning the annual May Frolic the last of May.

PHI GAMMA DELTA

The chapter will elect officers on Thursday night, and these will be installed in two weeks. At a feed given Sunday night, Delta Kappa Chapter had as its guests Dr. and Mrs. Watts, Dr. and Mrs. Lyon, Prof. and Mrs. Schenck, Dr. and Mrs. Cumming, and Mrs. Cumming’s father, Mr. Chandler.

PI KAPPA PHI

The weekly feed was held Sunday night at the house. Brother Dan Cassell has been forced to withdraw from college on account of ill health. Brother Bill McLean is confined to a Charlotte hospital with whooping cough.

PHI DELTA THETA

Carlton Chapman, Dan Griffin, J. D. Allen, and Ralph McClelland attended the fiftieth anniversary of the founding of N. C. Beta Chapter at Chapel Hill Sunday. N. C. Gamma plans to have a banquet and house party this weekend. Brother Roland Parker visited the chapter Sunday.

SIGMA PHI EPSILON

N.C. Epsilon plans to hold a formal banquet at the S. & W. Cafeteria in Charlotte on April 27. Following this will be a dance.

Davidson’s Rifle Team Ends Successful Year

Davidson's rifle team closed a very successful season this past week.By means of comparing scores through the mails, it defeated Pennsylvania State, New Mexico Military Institute, Oregon State, and the University of California; also winning a forfeited match with South Dakota State Teachers’ College. In shoulder-to-shoulder matches, the team lost twice to North Carolina State. This year the Athletic Association will award riflemen an insignia consisting of an Old English D with crossed rifles, to be worn on the sleeve. The following men on the rifle team will be awarded letters: Gordon Green, captain; Dunk Johnson, manager; Baxter Simpson, A. M. Cathey, and S. L. Jetton.

WARNER BROS. BROADWAY
Take Advantage of Our NEW LOW PRICES
BARGAIN MATINEE DAILY
11 A. M. to 1 P. M. ALL SEATS 20c.
1 P. M. to 6 P. M. ALL SEATS 25c
6 P. M. to Closing Balcony 25c. Orchestra 35c
Showing All This Week
Gene Stratton Porter’s “LADDIE” With JOHN BEAL
COMING SOON
The World’s Greatest Musical “GO INTO YOUR DANCE” Starring AL JOLSON RUBY KEELER

STATE
Junior Editors Of Paper Are Chosen
Six Rising Juniors Take Over Managerial Duties On The Davidsonian

In elections held since the last edition of The Davidsonian, the following men were elected managing editors for the year of 1935-36: Harry Kuykendall, Jim Morton, Howell Overton, Harold Sugg, Daymond Turner, and John Winn. These men were elected from a group of twelve or thirteen rising juniors who were eligible for the posts. The selection was by the managing editors of the past year, and was conducted by this year’s editor. Kuykendall assumes the role of sports editor for the following year. He follows Lamont Brown, who a short time ago was elected editor-in-chief by the student body. Kuykendall is from Greensboro, as is Overton. These newly-elected editors assume their new duties immediately, in accordance with the usual plan. Sugg is from Greenville, Morton from Bullock, Turner is from Gainesville, Fla., and Winn is a resident of Greenville, S. C. Kuykendall will write the sports column during the ensuing year, in accordance with the plan that has been followed for the past several years. Of the other five, one will serve as assignment editor each week, and the four remaining will be in charge of the rest of the paper, each being responsible for a page. The editorial page is in charge of the editor-in-chief.

PHYSICS MOVIE SHOWN AT LAB
The Science Departments Present A Series Of Five Scientific Films

The Chemistry and Physics Departments presented a series of five scientific films to its students at 7:30 last Thursday evening, through the courtesy of the General Electric Company of Schenectady, N. Y., and the Southern Bell Telephone Company of Atlanta, Ga. The General Electric Company loaned the films: “Radio-Active Rays,” “A Modern Zeus,” “The Romance of Power,” and the “Steam Turbine.” The Southern Bell Telephone Company donated the animated cartoon, “Finding His Voice.” The film, “Radio-Active Rays,” was a short demonstration showing the decomposition of radium and both its theoretical and practical uses. “A Modern Zeus” was an enlightening presentation of the progress made in the field of protecting electric light lines from damage by lightning and other abnormal conditions. “The Romance of Power” was a vivid picturization of man’s burden, drudgery, and toil that could have and has been lightened by our now familiar electric servant. In this film an appropriate quotation of Steinmetz’s was used that applies to all successful labor, “When a man uses his hands, he is a laborer; when a man uses his head, he is a mechanic; when a man uses his hands, head, and heart, he is an artist.” The “Steam Turbine” is a demonstration of how this machine is used to turn dynamos in large power houses to generate electricity for home and industrial consumption. The Bell Telephone Company presented the cartoon, “Finding His Voice,” showing how talkies are made on the moving picture set.

THURSDAY ONLY
A spitfire debutante and a re-
Friday and Saturday
Mile-a-minute thrills with DEATH at the controls!
With CONRAD NAGEL FLORENCE RICE
On missions of hate, these men dreamed of love and dodged death in the sky!
Warner Baxter in “HELL IN THE HEAVENS” with Conchita Montenegro

Next week
MONDAY TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 15-20c CHARLOTTE

Around Town
The results of the recent essay contest sponsored by the Davidson Civic League were announced at the regular chapel program Saturday, April 6. The winners are: Rebecca Woodfin, first prize; David Hoyle, second prize, both of the high school division, and Julia Mebane, first prize; Lois Sherrill, second prize, of the grade school division. The contest was conducted in an effort to bring about a desire to make Davidson more attractive.

The Thelemite Club held its annual business meeting Friday afternoon at the home of Mrs. A. C. Currie. The following officers were elected: Miss Orrie Steele, president; Mrs. A. C. Currie, vice-president, and Mrs. J. M. McConnell, secretary and treasurer. The subject of study for the coming year will be “Islands of the Sea.”

Rev. and Mrs. E. H. Chandler, of Woodstock, Conn., are visiting in the home of their son and daughter, Dr. and Mrs. W. P. Cumming. Mrs. Robert Garth and baby son, of New York City, are guests in the home of Mrs. Garth's parents, Dr. and Mrs. T. W. Lingle. The Booklovers Club met with Mrs. E. F. Shewmake Friday afternoon. The subject of Miss Lizzie Young's paper was “The St. Lawrence, the Gateway to America.” Out-of-town guests were Mrs. Mills, of Nelsonville, Ohio; Mrs. Chandler, of Woodstock, Conn., and Mrs. Garth, of New York. Mrs. Charles Grey, of Hendersonville, has returned to her home after a week’s visit with her sister, Mrs. W. R. Grey. Mrs. Grey was the honor guest at several social functions.

From the attendance and interest displayed by the students from time to time in these educational films, it is evident that the Chemistry and Physics Departments are amply repaid for their investment in purchasing a moving picture machine.

Pritchett Speaks At “Y” Vespers
Former “Y” Secretary Takes As His Text The Sixteenth Chapter Of John

Carl Pritchett of the class of 1930 and ex-secretary of the local Y. M. C. A. spoke to a large audience last Sunday evening at vespers. The program was led by Bob Lindsay. After an opening song, prayers were made by Pete Neil and Roger Melton, followed by a solo by Charles Ramseur. The speaker of the evening was then introduced. As the text of his talk, Carl Pritchett used the last few verses of the 16th chapter of John. He enlarged upon his text by saying that we must remind ourselves that Jesus was the greatest idealist and realist of all times. We need the realism of Jesus and must take off the rosy idealism of youth. The young men of today face an extremely difficult situation. We are living in a world of limited opportunity. In the olden days a man could seek his opportunities in the undeveloped West, the growing cities, or in a profession. Whereas now, when a man is willing to work and goes to the labor of getting a college degree, he finds no opportunity awaiting him upon his graduation. It would be no great tragedy to have radical thinking as Jesus was a radical thinker, but this does not refer to violence. He quoted Clarence Darrow as saying, “I have no sympathy for the young bloods seeking jobs, the sooner they jump out of a window, the sooner they will find peace.” This attitude of fear and despair is unchristian. He proceeded to point out that Jesus is the only rock on which to build the structure of life. We must win a spiritual victory over life. We must first have a Christ in our hearts, then we can have hope and courage which will enable us to battle the situation of fear and limited opportunity that faces us today. After closing his talk with a prayer, the quartet sang a number and Dr. Moffett pronounced the benediction.

Jockey Shorts
TRADE MARK FOR MEN
Designed by introducing and Shirts afford the utmost in comfort for work, play or dress. A mild support. A new idea. It's daring! It's sensible priced at 47c each
Men’s Shop—Street Floor