THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 10, 1935

BASEBALL NINE TO FINISH SEASON WITH STATE

Sports Afield

TRACK TEAM TO END SEASON WITH DUKE

By H. L. KUYKENDALL

This week brings us an intimate view into the life of another member of the Davidson Coaching staff, and it's
none other but “Pete” Whittle, assistant track coach and director of Physical education, who very appropriately succeeds last week's sketch
on Captain Pritchett.

PETE WHITTLE

“Pete”, as he is nicknamed, was born in Atlanta, Georgia in 1906, and attended Berry Preparatory school in Rome. While
at Berry, he participated in Cross-Country track and in the two-mile event. Coming to Davidson in 1926, “Pete” decided to
go out for the hurdles after finding out that he “could do it” in some of the class meets which
were popular at Davidson then.

Concentrating on both the high and low hurdles in his Sophomore year, “Pete” began a very successful career, being undefeated
in the high hurdles. At the Tech relays held in Atlanta, he entered against the outstanding trackmen of the South
and placed a good second. In the State meets during his three years as an upperclassman, “Pete” won first places
in the high and low hurdles continuously and in the State meet held at Greensboro during his Senior year, he
tied the State record.

Pete also tied the world's record in the 70-yard hurdles in the indoor games held in West Virginia, running the
distance in 8.5 seconds. Forth of N. Y. U. nosed him out by a hair to take the win and
the world's record, although the judges deliberated some time before deciding whether the race was a tie. Later, Whittle entered
the Tech relays again, taking a first in the highs and a second in the low hurdles. After graduation, he
immediately accepted an offer as a member of the Physical Education Department.

CHARLIE HARRIS

Harris laid a steady hand on the helm last week and it was mainly through his efforts that the ‘Cats
garnered a win over State and Wake Forest. Jenkins and Porter also guided the good old ship of fortune during
the period but whether they were a little off form or the Pack and Deacons were out for blood hasn't
been determined. Lefty handled himself very well considering his inexperience and with a little experience should replace the absence of
Harris and Jenkins next year.

Yearlings Lose In Series Of Games

The Freshman baseball team had two games during last week, one with Wake Forest, on the campus, and the other
with Wingate, there. The scores: Davidson 8, Wake Forest 19; Davidson 4, Wingate 7. The game with Wake Forest was
played on Richardson field last Friday, May 3. The line-ups at the beginning of the game were:

(Continued on Page 6, Col. 2)

“G-MEN”

Uncle Sam's Government Agents Rubout Crime

EXTRA

AL CAPONE'S $20,000 — 16-Cylinder Bullet-Proof Car Is On Display In Front Of The Broadway

IT alone is worth a trip over to Charlotte to see.

ALL NEXT WEEK

PAUL MUNI

“BLACK FURY”

IT'S DYNAMITE

LIBERTY GIVES IT 4 STARS

Wildcats Lick Deacons

Wolfpack Hammers Out Decisive Victory Over Wildcats In Second Game

MORGAN LEADS HITTING

Wake Forest Bunches Hits To Win Series Opener

Davidson's baseball team broke even in their current two-game series with N. C. State and Wake Forest on Richardson Field
last week.

N. C. State—11; Davidson—3.

The Wolfpack combed the offerings of the ‘Cats' two hurlers for fourteen base hits and eleven runs to lick the
Wildcats, 11—3. Jack Jenkins started on the mound for Coach Laird’s men but he retired in favor of “Judge” Cuthey,
who held State in check except for two runs scored through the home run routes. Flythe, who recently pitched State
to a win over Carolina, hit the first homer into deep centerfield, while Buggs, who had been bested by Charlie
Harris in a slab duel on Monday, pumped his four-bagger over the left-center field wall. Morgan and Wingfield led the
Wildcats with two hits apiece, Partridge scoring triplets.

Wake Forest—5; Davidson—3.

Davidson garnished ten hits off the offerings of Pitcher Rhodes while Wake Forest got six from Lefty Porter and Jack
Jenkins, but the Deacons bunched their hits and combined heady base-running with costly errors by the Wildcats to outscore the
‘Cats, 5—3. Lefty Porter started the game for Davidson but occasional lapses into wildness finally forced him from the mound
in favor of Jack Jenkins, although he had worked the day before against State, in fine form and literally breezed
through the closing stages of the game. Charlie Harris, playing centerfield, not only batted in one of the runs but
also contributed the fielding gem of the game when he raced back into deep left-center to spear a long drive
from the bat of Morris. Burnes batted in the other two runs. Mitchel led the Wake sluggers, while Dickson, Harris,
and Revenel got two hits apiece for the ‘Cats.

Davidson—3; Wake Forest—1.

Charlie Harris held the Baptists to three measly bingles as his teammates knocked out a 3 to 1 decision over
the Wake nine to successfully close Davidson's home season. Although the ‘Cats were able to obtain but six hits off
Johnson, they used three hits to good advantage, counting once in the third and twice in the fifth innings. The
lone Wake run came in the fourth inning as a result of two hits and an infield out. Charlie Harris
pitched a masterful game and air-tight support choked off any threatening Deacon rallies. Johnny Mackorell and Wood Burns, with two
hits apiece, led Davidson, while Shepard stood out for Wake Forest. Davidson closes its season with a two-game series against
State in Raleigh Friday and Saturday of this week.

Frosh Netmen Win Over Wingate Club

The Davidson Freshmen defeated Wingate Junior College in tennis by the lopsided score of 9—0. The results follow with Davidson
men listed first: Kenny defeated McKenzie, 6—0, 6—4; Frampton defeated Kirby, 6—4, 6—1; Cooke defeated Sinclair, 6—1, 8—6; Reinhardt defeated
Caston, 6—0, 6—2; Moore defeated Sherril, 6—0, 6—1; Hartzog defeated Porterfield, 6—1, 6—0. In the doubles, Kenny and Frampton won
over Caston and Kirby by 6—3, 6—1; Cooke and Reinhardt beat Sinclair and McKenzie, 6—4, 8—6; Hartzog and Moore defeated
Porterfield and Sherril, 6—2, 6—2. The Freshman Tennis Team closes its season today with a return match with Winston-Salem High
School. To date, the Freshmen have won every match except the match with State College which they lost by the
score of 4—3.

Davidson-Navy Football Game Slated For 1936

Through the efforts of Captain Norton G. Pritchett, definite plans have been made for a football game between Davidson and
Navy to be played on October 3, 1936, at Annapolis. Captain Pritchett opened negotiations with Navy some four years ago.
Last fall he made some headway but was unable to arrive at any definite settlement. Early this spring, Navy set
the date and made an offer to Davidson to play at Annapolis. Captain Pritchett was not satisfied with the terms
and persuaded Navy to make a larger financial offer. This Navy agreed to do, and Captain Pritchett accepted the engagement
to play. No contract has as yet been drawn up, but both parties have agreed to let the correspondence between
the two serve as confirmation of the agreement. Captain Pritchett, who succeeded in procuring games with Army, thus befittingly ends
his career as head of the Davidson physical education department by establishing athletic relations between Davidson and Navy also.

’Cats Tie With HEEL Linksmen

Davidson Golfers Defeat State; Place Fourth In State Tournament

The Davidson linksmen returned Saturday night after a very successful trip over the eastern part of the state where they
participated in two matches and the state tournament, defeating N.C. State, 9½ to 8½; tying North Carolina 9—9, the latter
Southern Intercollegiate champions; and placing fourth in the state playoff. The ‘Cat golfers played their first match with N. C.
State on Thursday, defeating them 9½ to 8½. Charlie Hamrick was the medalist for the day, shooting a 76 while
Bill Snow carded 77, with Ross and Cowan 79's. The annual State tournament was held on Saturday, with six North
Carolina schools entering. Each team played 36 holes of golf and the team with the lowest score was considered the
winner. Carolina won the match with Duke 2nd, N. C. State 3rd, Davidson 4th, Wake Forest 5th, and Catawba 6th.Wilson
Coffin won the individual honors in a nine-hole playoff with Cliff Perry of Duke, tying with 147. Saturday, Davidson played
a very good match with Carolina, tying them 9—9. Carolina is considered the best team in the South, from their
recent success at Athens, and Davidson came from behind to tie them in the final playoff. Bill Snow shot the
low score for the day with a 72. Walter Pijanowski came in second with 75. A 15-foot putt on the
last hole by Pijanowski prevented the Davidson men from defeating the Southern Champions. Davidson will play the final match of
the season Tuesday against Catawba College, Salisbury, N.C.

Frat Baseball To End With Games This Week

The interfraternity baseball competition, which opened here April 18th, is now in its final stages, with four games remaining to
be played in order to decide the champions on the college campus. The Betas, under the leadership of Captain Bill
Brewer, will meet Captain Charlie Thompson’s Kappa Sigs, and the S.A.E.’s under “Heman” Clark will meet Captain Dud Elvery’s S.P.E.’s
to decide the semi-finals. The winner of these games will meet for the championship. Two of the fraternities, the Kappa
Sigs and the S.P.E.’s, will be virtually fighting for the possession of the fraternity athletic trophy. Although the Kappa Sigs
won the trophy last year, the S.P.E.’s are ahead so far this year.

Davidson Frosh Trackmen Rank Third In State

Carolina, Davidson, Duke, State, and Wake Forest Compete in Meet

DEVILS PLACE FIRST

Barrow and Freeman Are Stars For Wildkittens

With a team of just twelve men, the Davidson College Freshman track team placed third in the State Meet at
Chapel Hill Saturday. The scores of the different Freshmen teams were Duke, 90 2/3; Carolina, 50 1/3; Davidson, 19 3/4;
State, 4 1/4; and Wake Forest, 1. The meet, which was held in perfect track weather, was literally a record-breaking
one, as two old records were broken, and one tied. The outstanding performance of the day was the freshman 440
yd. dash. Pengelly of Duke ran this in 49.2 seconds, breaking the old one by two seconds and breaking the
varsity record by two-tenths of a second. The other record that was broken was by Steckel of Duke in the
220 yd. low hurdles. He ran these in 25 seconds, bettering the old record by two-tenths of a second. Three
men, Gardner of Duke, Turner of Duke, and Meroney of Carolina, tied the old state record in the high jump
at 5 feet, 9 inches. Freeman was the star for the Wildkittens, placing in three events. He won the discus
with a throw of 126 feet. His nearest competitor was Hartness of Duke with a throw of 116 feet, 11
inches. Freeman also placed third in the shot put and tied with Wicker and Barrow for fourth in the high
jump. Barrow placed in two events, tying for fourth in the high jump and placing fourth in the 220-yard low
hurdles. Fort won the pole vault at eleven feet. The other Davidson men who placed were Percell, second in the
two-mile run, and Hogan, second in the javelin throw.

Sophs Take Intramural Baseball Championship

The final results of the baseball intramural sports report that the sophomores have taken off the title for this year.
They came through this season without meeting one defeat, under the direction of captain Joe Hunter. The last game was
played against the freshmen, who were defeated by a score of 13—19. The first game of the season was played
against the seniors, which was won by a close score. In the final tabulation, the sophomores were rated first, seniors
second, freshmen third, and the juniors last. Hunter and Bondurant starred for the title holders.

WINS EASILY

EARL FRAZIER

Earl Frazier, distance runner who won the two-mile event in the State Meet held at Chapel Hill.

Cat Net Team Defeats Bears

Take Final Match From Lenoir-Rhyne To Close Season For This Year

The Davidson College varsity tennis team defeated the Lenoir-Rhyne tennis team 6—1 on the Davidson courts last Friday, May 3.
The Davidson team won all of the singles matches and lost one of the doubles, Moretz and Lawrence defeating Lewis
and Hornbeck. The summary of the meet is as follows: Lewis (D) defeated Moretz (LR) 6—3, 6—4; Phifer (D) defeated
Lawrence (LR) 6—2, 6—1; Barnett (D) defeated Campbell (LR) 6—1, 6—4; Elvery (D) defeated Crane (LR) 11—9, 6—1; and Hornbeck
(D) defeated Lyerly (LR) 6—1, 6—4. In the doubles, Moretz and Lawrence (LR) defeated Lewis and Hornbeck (D) 6—0, 3—6,
6—1; and Barnett and Elvery (D) defeated Campbell and Crane (LR) 6—2, 5—1. This meet ended the schedule of the
1935 varsity tennis team; however, a match may be obtained with the Charlotte Municipal team for Tuesday, May 7. This
match will be played in Charlotte if it is arranged. The Davidson team has won 7 matches, lost 4, and
4 have been rained out this season. They have defeated Rollins, Emory University, University of South Carolina—twice, University of Richmond—twice,
and Lenoir-Rhyne. They have lost matches to Georgia Tech, Ohio State, University of Florida, and University of North Carolina. The
ranking of the team at the close of the season is: 1 Lewis, 2 Phifer, 3 Barnett, 4 Elvery, 5
Hornbeck, and 6 Morrow. Ed Garrett, the manager of the team and also number seven man, participated in a number
of the doubles matches, acting as a playing manager.

Wildcats Place Third In Classic State Meet

Eddie Frazier Receives Big Ovation From Excited Fans At Emerson Field

CATS GET 12 1/2 POINTS

Frazier, Gammon, Lee, Pittman, And Pierce Score

Last Saturday afternoon, the North Carolina Tar Heels accounted for their fourteenth consecutive victory in the annual state meet at
Chapel Hill, with Duke a close second and the Wildcats in third place. A crowd of something like 1,000 excited
spectators sat in perfect track weather while record after record fell at Emerson Field in the annual state classic. While
Duke and Carolina fought for the majority of the honors, Davidson took advantage of this duel and during the Carolina-Duke
feud, the Wildcats slipped in and stole 12 1/2 points. It was clear throughout the meet that Carolina and Duke
had the majority of the talent, which furnished a lot of the excitement for the fans. Frazier, without a doubt,
received the most favorable and most abundant applause throughout his two-mile grind. Earl was given a tremendous hand as he
sprinted in on the last lap of his race. Frazier ran the event in very good time (9 minutes, 44.3
seconds). The “Champ,” strange to say, ran his last mile faster than his first mile. He ran his first mile
a bit slower than he had planned to, and when he realized that he was slightly “behind time” (behind his
own time), he had to put on the steam. He ran the first mile in about 4:59 and then he
ran the second half of the race in about 4:45. Frazier's mile record of 4:22 (established in 1934) was broken
by Williamson, shaving only two very meager tenths of one second from Earl’s record. The varsity points were piled up
by: Frazier’s win in the two-mile event (5); Gammon’s tie for second in the high jump (2 1/2); Lee and
Pittman tying for second place in the pole vault along with two others (3); and Pierce's 178-foot throw for a
third place in the javelin (2). The total points for Davidson were 12 1/2. Frazier was the high point man
with his five points, which he gained in the two-mile. Evins, of Carolina, bettered Cochran’s (Davidson, 1934) record in the
shot put by seven and a fraction inches. The total scoring for each team was as follows: Carolina, 75 1/2;
Duke, 67; Davidson, 12 1/2; N.C. State, 5; Lenoir-Rhyne, 2; Wake Forest, 2.

A New Kind of UNDERWEAR

Less of it... Cooler... More freedom... No buttons... Gently supporting. Perfect for Active Men... 50c and 35c each

P. H. Hanes Knitting Co.
WINSTON-SALEM, N.C.
