MASQUERS TO OPEN SEASON MONDAY NIGHT

The Davidsonian

ALENODA LUX UB! ORTA- LIBERTAS

DR. SPEER TO DELIVER OTTS’ LECTURES HERE

VOL. XXII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., OCTOBER 2, 1935 NUMBER 2

P. HARLAN TO HEAD HONORARY COUNCIL; Jackson, Tenn., Man Chosen President of Honorary Fraternity Body

FRATS MEET BI-MONTHLY Delta Pi Kappa, Publications Club Is Dissolved

The Honorary Fraternity Council elected Paul Harlan as president at a meeting held in Chambers Building last Wednesday night, September 25. Harlan, of Jackson, Tenn., is a member of the Senior class, editor of the Wildcat Handbook for the past year, President of the Forensic Council, President of the Eumenean Literary Society, member of the Student Council, Secretary of the Y. M. C. A. Board of Control, a member of Alpha Phi Epsilon, a member of the I. R. C., a member of the Red and Black Masquers, a member of the Y. M. C. A. Cabinet, Associate Editor of the Davidsonian, and a member of the Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity.

The schedule of meetings was among the other business transacted at this meeting. This schedule appears on page five. Ten fraternities will hold meetings the first and third week of every month and ten will hold meetings the second and fourth weeks. Every organization will meet twice a month with the exception of the Y. M. C. A. Cabinet which meets every week. There will be no meetings on Thursday nights due to the meetings of the social fraternities which are held at that time.

The Honorary Fraternity Council took action in abolishing the local publications fraternity, Delta Pi Kappa, because of its inactivity within the past few years. In accordance with this program, each honorary fraternity will be given a sufficient length of time to prove its worth to the Student Body and to the school. If any honorary fraternity fails to measure up to the standards of the Council, it will be abolished by that group. The Council possesses this power of abolition.

The representatives of the Honorary Fraternity Council are the presidents of each honorary fraternity on the campus. A list of the representatives is as follows: Phi Beta Kappa, to be elected; Omicron Delta Kappa, Carleton Chapman; Sigma Upsilon, Carleton Chapman; I. R. C., to be elected; Sigma Phi Sigma, Al Kuhn; Alpha Phi Epsilon, Wade Boggs; Scabbard and Blade, Cokey Branton; Eta Sigma Pi, John Walker; Gamma Sigma Epsilon, Bill Wartman; Delta Phi Alpha, Hervey Ross; Le Cercle Francais, Harvey Glass; Sigma Delta Psi, Gerdon Smith; Pi Delta Alpha, Gordon Smith (acting president); Sigma Delta Pi, to be elected; Red and Black Masquers, Dave Herring; Ministerial Band, James Selango; Y. M. C. A. Cabinet, Wade Boggs.

Former Davidson Man Receives O.D.K. Award

Robert Thornwell Coit, Jr., a member of last spring's graduating class, has just been awarded the National Omicron Delta Kappa Scholarship. This award is given annually to the man chosen by the national organization of O. D. K. from applicants from the thirty-six colleges and universities in the United States. This is truly a great honor both to Coit and to Davidson.

Coit came to Davidson with a fine record from John Marshall High School in Richmond, Virginia, and continued his good work here at Davidson. During his four years here, he participated in many activities on the campus, and was elected to Omicron Delta Kappa, national honorary leadership fraternity, and to Phi Beta Kappa. Upon his graduation, he received the Sullivan Award, given each year to that member of the graduating class who has, by his influence and work on the campus, rendered the most unselfish service. Coit is this year continuing his study at the Medical College of Virginia, in Richmond, where his scholarship will be applied.

LOCAL IS ABOLISHED

Blue Monogrammed Coats Selected For Seniors

The coats were selected this year by a committee of seven members of the senior class, headed by Bill Merchant, and appointed by Bob Lindsay, president of the class. The committee is composed of Bill Merchant, “Cokey” Branton, Carleton Chapman, Bill Coffin, Mal Grimes, Bud Hunter, and Budd Okey. They passed on the material, style, and color. The final choice was left up to the senior class. To avoid confusion, a new plan was used instead of voting. Mimeographed contracts were passed out to be signed by those wanting coats. Fifty-six have signed for the coats and twenty-six individual measurements have been taken. The material chosen was a dark blue with a faint check. The design chosen was a coat with half belt and pleating in the back. They have a two-button front with three pockets and the felt letter “D.” Numerals will be on the breast pocket. The price is six dollars per coat.

PIL GAMS LEAD IN SCHOLARSHIP

New Inter-Fraternity Trophy Will Be Presented by Charlotte Couple

Phi Gamma Delta topped the social fraternities of Davidson in scholarship last year with an average of 1.892, according to the report issued by Mr. F. W. Hengeveld, registrar, of fraternity scholastic standing for the year 1934-1935. Second place went to Sigma Phi Epsilon, leader for the last 3 years, with an average of 1.861. Kappa Sigma received third place. The rating for each fraternity is as follows: Phi Gamma Delta 1.892; Sigma Phi Epsilon, 1.861; Kappa Sigma, 1.850; Sigma Alpha Epsilon, 1.825; Pi Kappa Alpha, 1.729; Kappa Alpha, 1.619; Beta Theta, 1.585; and Pi Kappa Phi, 1.578.

Compared with last year the averages are lower. Last year’s standing of the fraternities is as follows: Sigma Phi Epsilon, 2.117; Phi Gamma Delta, 1.983; Sigma Alpha Epsilon, 1.964; Kappa Sigma, 1.959; Beta Theta Phi, 1.837; Kappa Alpha, 1.769; Phi Delta Theta, 1.765; Pi Kappa Phi, 1.742; and Pi Kappa Alpha, 1.697. Sigma Phi won permanent possession of the Interfraternity Scholarship cup last year by taking the lead for three successive years. The new scholarship cup is given by Mr. and Mrs. W. H. Belk of Charlotte.

Dr. Meyers Addresses Students at Vespers

Dr. Charles Meyers, pastor of the First Presbyterian church in Greensboro, was the guest minister at the college church hour last Sunday evening, September 29. Dr. Meyers chose as his text Nehemiah 5:15, “And so did not I, because of the fear of God.” What a man will not do, he said, is sometimes more revealing than what he will do. Excerpts from the text follow:

Righteousness undoubtedly has its negative side, and there are certain things that a Christian gentleman should resolve not to do. First, I will not be untruthful. To lie is the worst, and the lowest of sins. A commandment against lying is included in every code of ethics formulated since the world began. John says that “a lying tongue shall not enter into heaven.” I will not be unfaithful. “Stick-to-it-iveness,” and “plain devotion to duty” are the rarest of qualities. Fidelity is the essence of character. The final test of a man’s success in college or anywhere (Continued on page 6)

MASQUERS WILL PRESENT THREE ONE-ACT PLAYS

“The Red Lamp,” “The Boor,” and “The Intruder” to Be Given Monday

PLAN BIGGEST SEASON Donigian, Herring, and Pierce Will Direct Plays

The Red and Black Masquers will offer to local theater-goers three well-known one-act plays at 8 P. M. Monday, October 7: “The Red Lamp,” by Hilliard Booth; “The Boor,” by Anton Tchekov; and “The Intruder,” by Maurice Maeterlinck. These plays, presented under the joint direction of E. H. Donigian, D. F. Herring, and W. F. Pierce, will open what is planned as one of the biggest and best dramatic seasons ever promoted here.

In order to give ample opportunity to as many as possible of those who desire to participate, and also to display some of the most promising dramatic talent that has been offered here, The Masquers plan to present two three-act plays before Christmas, and three next spring.

General try-outs were held on Monday and Tuesday of last week, and the following casts were selected: in “The Intruder,” the grandfather, H. F. Dade; the father, D. A. McQueen; the uncle, R. A. Torrey; the daughter, Miss Lucie Currie or Miss Miriam Goodrum; servant, Miss Margaret Douglas. In “The Boor,” the cast is as follows: Helena, Mrs. Grier Martin; Grigori Stepanovitch Smirnov, A. M. Faison; Luka, servant of Helena, C. A. Hines. In “The Red Lamp,” the cast is as follows: Mathilda Deering, Miss Kalista Hood; Harold Deering, W. H. Marquess; Alice Deering, Miss Moffett; Archie Clark, J. S. Rice; Bill Worth, A. T. Port; Annie O’Shane, Miss Goodrum.

FOUR SELECTED AS JUNIOR CHEERLEADERS

Allen, Knorr, Peters, and Vogler Are Chosen From Sixteen Candidates

NOVELTY YELLS PLANNED Yell Leaders Sport New Megaphones and Sweaters

John Allen, “Ken” Knorr, Bobby Peters and Gene Vogler were elected Junior Cheer Leaders for the coming year in the elections held in chapel on Tuesday and Wednesday, September 24 and 25. The three upper classes voted Tuesday on John Allen, Tom Breeden, “Dunnie” Covington, Howard Covington, Ed Finley, Bill Hill, “Ken” Knorr, Harry Kuykendall, Bill Link, Ralph McClelland, “Salty” Peters, and Gene Vogler, eliminating all but six of the fourteen candidates. The six were: John Allen, Tom Breeden, Ken Knorr, Harry Kuykendall, “Salty” Peters, and Gene Vogler.

Last spring eighteen members of the present Junior Class came out for the instruction sessions and when school reopened this year twelve were still in the running. These men worked out at the pep meetings and the Elon game to give the Student Body a chance to study their ability.

Last year before Captain Pritchett left, Chief Cheer Leader Joe Dees approached him on the subject of getting much-needed equipment for the cheerleading staff and also proposed that Davidson’s cheerleading staff be enlarged from the regular three men to five since most colleges of this size have five cheerleaders. Captain Pritchett was agreeable in both of these proposals, and as a last kindness to Davidson arranged for new megaphones and sweaters. The sweaters are white and have the name “Davidson” arched across the front in red and black. The new megaphones are attractively painted. Joe Dees says that he is well pleased with the new members of the cheerleading staff and intends to work up some novelty yells.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Yells for games in the near future, Alumni Association Solicits Funds For Anniversary Gift Journal Asks Former Students to Select Gift Towards Building Program

As the time for the celebration of the one-hundredth birthday of Davidson College draws nearer, added attention is being given to plans for the parts various interested organizations will take in this observance. Ranking high in importance among these is the anticipated gift of the alumni. In a poll being conducted by the Alumni Journal, each member of the Alumni Association is asked to contribute to the extent of his ability toward making this gift one worthy of the association, and to vote on the nature of the gift to be given in its name. The inside cover of the Journal for the month of August, 1935, is devoted to a presentation of this problem, with the proposed gifts listed in order that each alumnus may indicate his choice. In an article beginning on page 3 of the same issue of the Journal, a discussion of each of the six proposed gifts is given, together with a list of other needs of the college which may appeal to some voters.

The first need gone into is that for an alumni scholarship system, whereby local chapters of the Alumni Association would endow scholarships to be given to boys from their various communities in order that they might attend Davidson. The second is the need for a new church on the campus, the vitality of which is evidenced by the fact that the college is no longer using the antiquated building now standing, but has abandoned it in favor of the college chapel. Third, the need for a new field house, (Continued on page 6)

Music Department To Have Heavy Schedule

Davidson College musical organizations will have one of the heaviest schedules of any group on this campus during the coming year. All three groups will be used in the weekly radio programs which will broadcast on Thursdays, from 4:30 until 5:00. The band will present a program of college songs, and in the following week, the orchestra and glee club will take part. The programs will also be interspersed with sport flashes, campus news, and occasional short talks.

Prospects are also bright as far as tours are concerned. The band will play for the North Carolina Music Teacher’s Clinic in Greensboro, Oct. 18, and will take a ten-day trip during the spring holidays. This tour will probably extend southward through Atlanta and Chattanooga. The orchestra and glee club will take a five-day trip as they did last year. The college band took its first trip when it played for the State-Davidson game in Greensboro. There, the band presented a half-hour broadcast over WBIG and performed during the game. At the half, the “D” and “S” were formed and Julian Helms, drum major, twirled a baton equipped with two fire brands, the first of its kind ever to be made.

Prof. Pfohl is especially pleased this year with the glee club prospects. This organization will be used in a number of radio programs, and also in all Sunday evening church services. The glee club will make its trip in the spring with the orchestra.

FIGHTING WILDCATS DEFEATED IN CLOSE MATCH

Sprunt Will Speak On Bird Refuges In South

Alexander Sprunt, Jr., a former Davidson student, will lecture in Chambers auditorium here at eight o'clock Monday night, October fourteenth, on “The Audubon Bird Sanctuaries in the South.” Mr. Sprunt is the son of Alexander Sprunt, Sr., a Davidson alumnus, and for many years pastor of the First Presbyterian Church in Charleston, S. C. He is the foremost authority on birds in the South, and is supervisor of the National Association of Audubon Societies. He has written for such magazines as Esquire, National Geographic, American, and others. Mr. Sprunt will have with him about forty-five slides illustrating the talk, and will show them as he speaks. He gave a talk similar to the one he will give here in Montreat last summer, to an audience of over a thousand people. The talk will last about an hour, and will be given in Chambers auditorium. There will be no charge or obligation for the talk, and anyone interested in joining this society for the protection of wild birds and animals may see Mr. Sprunt regarding this.

RADIO PROGRAM TO BE RESUMED

Davidson Band Will Take Major Part in Broadcast Beginning October 3rd

The rousing strains of college “marching songs” and the familiar voice of Dr. Walter L. Lingle coming from your radio Thursday afternoon at four-thirty o'clock will inaugurate the college's current season of weekly radio broadcasts. Dr. Lingle will introduce this current series to the unseen audience, and will encourage their regular presence during the remainder of the year. Dr. Lingle, as president of the college, has taken a serious interest in these programs, and last year he played a major part in them. The college songs will be rendered by the college band under the direction of Professor J. C. Pfohl, and will comprise the major part of the program.

This broadcast is the first in a series of weekly performances to be rendered every Thursday afternoon at four-thirty over station WBT, Charlotte. Grier Martin, who announced many of the programs last year, will again serve as announcer. Station WBT operates on a frequency of 1080 kilocycles with a power of 50,000 watts, and, during the daytime, it may be heard over an area of five hundred miles.

The Elon game and the pep-meeting prior to the game were presented as pre-season broadcasts. The Davidson-Citadel game on Richardson Field will be broadcast over this same station on October 26. On these regular radio programs will be heard interesting lectures and talks by the various members of the faculty, forecasts and announcements of coming events of interest on the campus, and several musical arrangements by the band.

Dr. J. E. Henderlite to Lead Vesper Service

The Rev. Dr. J. H. Henderlite, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Gastonia, N. C., will be the guest speaker at the college vesper services to be held in the college auditorium Sunday evening, October 6, at 6:30 o'clock. Dr. Henderlite is very active in the work of the Presbyterian young people of this state, and is the general chairman of the committee in charge of the Presbyterian Young People’s Conferences held here at Davidson each summer. He is a graduate of the Louisville Theological Seminary, Louisville, Kentucky, and is now a trustee of the Union Theological Seminary, Richmond, Virginia.

WITH STATE

State Team Victorious Over Davidson Eleven by Fourteen to Seven Score

’CATS SCORE WITH PASS

Two Wolfpack Touchdowns Gained by Heavy Drives

Davidson's light but scrappy Wildcats made rough going for the favored North Carolina State Wolves in Greensboro Saturday night before allowing Hunk Anderson's flaunted eleven a 14-7 victory. The 'Cats, featuring the work of Paul Pittman, Ed Armfield, and Baxter Yarborough in the backfield, displayed such fight and promise that the outcome remained undecided until the last few minutes of play. Henry Cathey, “Six” Johnston, Frank Purdy, and Coley Windham swelled the ranks of the “thin red line” admirably and withstood a terrific battering from the onslaughts of State's heavy and wiry backs. Two touchdown drives netted the Raleigh team a final victory in spite of dogged resistance, while Pittman heaved a pass to Armfield for Davidson's score.

Sabol received the kickoff and returned to State’s 43, where the Wolves led by Ryneska and Berlinski, began a touchdown march that netted four first downs in a row. Robinson climaxed the attack with a 13-yard sprint off right end to score. Helms made the point from placement. After both teams failed to make first downs, the 'Cats finally acquired possession of the ball on their own 42-yard line as the quarter ended. N. C. State 7; Davidson 0.

Aided by penalties the 'Cats traversed the Wolves 27-yard mark; Pittman made four yards at left end before a 5-yard penalty was subtracted and three aerial efforts failed. After an exchange of punts, Purdy recovered Ryneska’s fumble on the 17. Yarborough lost nine but a pass from Pittman to Windham netted for 12, Davidson penalty—5 yards. A pass failed and then Pittman sailed a high one to Armfield, 30 yards away on the goal line, and it was a touchdown. Pittman place-kicked the extra point.

State could not gain and punted. Pittman gained 12 yards at right end to the 50-yard line when the half ended. Pittman returned the kick 28 yards and after short gains by Armfield and Yarborough, Pittman punted to Ryneska for a fair catch on his own 10. (Continued on page 6)

Over Fifty Men Make Places On Dean’s List

Fifty-five, out of a class of one hundred and thirty-two seniors this year comprise the Dean’s List, which is based upon scholarship standings. Only those seniors are included who have attained a “B” average on all their work through the Junior year, or have averaged “B” on their junior studies alone. These men are extended the privilege by the Dean of taking twice as many cuts each semester as they would ordinarily be entitled to. The complete list follows: M. J. Barnett, W. M. Beaty, W. A. Benfield, J. E. Bowers, W. C. Branton, A. L. Bulwinkle, L. L. Burton, V. Cassels, C. B. Chapman, E. M. Clark, J. L. Dees, T. E. Downie, G. P. Erwin, H. P. Eve, J. H. Glass, D. B. Griffin, A. H. Haake, C. F. Hamrick, P. Y. Harlan, J. W. D. F. Herring, J. M. Hodgin, J. B. Huntington, J. B. Johnston, O. I. Johnson, P. L. Johnston, D. M. Jones, J. W. Knox, A. A. Kuhn, G. A. Leukel, R. B. Lindsay, R. C. Lyerly, H. B. McClung, H. E. McConnell, J. C. McMullen, D. R. Mack, L. M. Marchant, W. A. Merchant, S. N. Milton, J. H. Morrow, R. P. Morrow, L. J. Parsons, J. R. Pearce, W. F. Pierce, J. H. Ross, T. L. Ross, A. W. Shuford, C. G. Smith, W. R. Taber, C. M. Thompson, F. M. Toole, J. M. Walker, W. B. Wartman, W. G. White, and E. C. Wooten.