THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 13, 1935

Y.M.C.A. LEADERS ATTEND MEET
Glass And Marsh Represent Davidson College At Greensboro Conference

Harvey Glass and Sid Marsh represented Davidson College at the annual meeting of North Carolina college leaders in Young Men
and Young Women’s Christian Associations, held in Greensboro the past weekend. The convention, designated as “A Student Seminar on Religion
and Life,” was a guest of the North Carolina College for Women and was presided over by Bruce Curry, professor
of Bible at Union Theological Seminary, New York City. Dr. Curry is a Davidson man, widely known as a college
and university preacher and special lecturer. He is described by “The Christian Century” as “probably the most successful interpreter of
the Bible appearing in Student Conferences in this country.”

Dr. Curry led the delegates in a discussion which hinged mainly on the theme: “Finding a religion adequate for life’s
new demands.” Facing vital problems that have been brought up by present life, Curry and students discussed the questions, “Do
we need religion? Is it adequate? Is not humanism—intelligent planning and mastering of the resources at hand sufficient?” To such
questions, Dr. Curry made no dogmatic answers but suggested that whether or not religion is necessary depends upon two things:
first, upon what we mean by religion and second, upon what level the student determines to pitch his life. Dr.
Curry pointed out the distinction between the ideals of “high living” and “low living,” and divided men into two groups,
responsible and irresponsible. The responsible men are those who have been aroused to a wholesome discontent with all that is
low and are thus on the way to the discovery of the high place religion has in the search for
a better life.

The apparent disintegration in our institutions, the family, school, church, and economic order must be met with a building up
of a spiritual frontier by youth. “Youth can meet the situation,” said Curry, “only with the aid of God.” And
thus Curry pointed out that religion was an indispensable resource in youth’s quest for the good life. “Religion contains a
great truth about men and the universe and expresses a great law of our being. Social idealism, after certain immediate
goals have been attained, will be forced to face those ultimate issues which are only adequately dealt with by religion.”

This meeting of leaders in “Y” work in North Carolina colleges is held every year. Walter Sprunt, president of the
Davidson Y.M.C.A., is treasurer of the organization for the year.

Student Pledges To Be Collected

A recent report of the progress made in collections for the Christmas gift fund reveals that two hundred and seventy
dollars is the total amount of the fulfilled pledges made by the student body thus far in the campaign. A
complete check-up has not been made as yet with the various canvassers, but this is the actual amount already in
the hands of the committee in charge. Approximately two hundred dollars has already been sent to Rev. R. H. Stone,
to be used in his work among the mountain missions in the northwestern section of North Carolina. Dr. Stone paid
a personal visit to the Davidson campus recently and brought reports of the great progress and increased enthusiasm made possible
by our gifts. The Y.M.C.A. is delighted with its choice of a recipient for their annual gift fund and will
launch soon a renewed campaign for further collection of pledges made earlier this year.

During the next two weeks, a canvasser will visit each man who has made a pledge. These pledges, of course,
are not compulsory or binding in any way, and if certain unforeseen circumstances have arisen since the making of the
pledge that make it impossible to be met, the student will be promptly released from his agreement. However, if such
circumstances have not arisen, the “Y” wishes to make a personal appeal to each man to pay his pledge as
soon as possible or when the canvasser calls at his room, and thus have his share in this work.

Prominent Campus Figure Is Banished
Exile To West Virginia Faces K. O., Gallant Canine Friend Of Hundreds

Great minds cultivated at Yale, Harvard, and Oxford were put together at the last meeting of the Davidson Executive Committee,
for the purpose of expelling the renowned Great Dane, K. O. from Davidson College. K. O. is a large, light-brown
dog, which many students have mistaken for an undersized pony. He wanders about the campus in the company of a
half-breed German Police named “Shadow.” Gus Maynard, the grief-stricken owner of K. O., recently received a notice to the effect
that his dog had been expelled. He made the fact known to many of the faithful admirers of K. O.
and it is believed they shed many bitter tears over his sad fate within the privacy of their darkened rooms.

K. O. has been known and loved by all of the Davidson students for this past semester. He was always
cordial upon meeting on the campus and he never failed to bark a cheery “hello.” When interviewed upon the matter,
Gus Maynard made the following statement: “I was very much depressed about getting the notice and have high hopes of
swinging the faculty to my point of view.” It was here that he revealed the fact that he plans to
make an appeal for his beloved dog at the next meeting of the Executive Committee. He stated that he could
not find the heart to tell K. O. of his cruel fate and was putting it off until the last
minute. Gus also said that if K. O. were shipped, he must go to Bluefield, West Virginia, where the climate
disagrees with him very much during the winter. “Shadow,” K. O.’s bosom pal, has not as yet been informed of
the news. However, she will probably read about it in The Davidsonian. K. O. makes his headquarters at Thompson's Boarding
House, where he will be each afternoon to receive calls from those who wish to bid him “goodbye.”

STUDENTS STAMPEDE AS 'PHONES REFUND COINS
Long Distance Conversation Becomes Popular As Callers Wait In Line

Hello, Jacksonville—Davidson calling! Hold the line—New York—Davidson calling! Are you there Omaha?—Davidson, N. C., calling! This is Davidson,N. C., calling
Jan Garber at the Trianon in Chicago! Clear the wires! Davidson calling! At about the above rate, telephone calls went
out of Davidson to all points: Philadelphia; Mitchell Field, L. I.; Alabama; Schenectady, N. Y.; Georgia; Nebraska; Stanton, Va.; and
Louisville, being most conspicuous. Three calls were completed to Chicago (so reports go), and at least two to New York
City, while all points within the state received a bombardment of Davidson-directed calls. This sudden outbreak was due to two
new pay telephone booths installed in East and West last weekend. They were little used until some venturesome soul found
that the nickel he inserted in the slot kept on going, finally coming to rest in the “Money Refunded” cup.
When the fact was finally discovered, the popularity of these phones spread like wildfire. From 3:00 P.M. until supper there
was a waiting line clustered around the booth in West. After supper, the phone in East was found to possess
the same peculiarity and it was immediately crowded. One call to Chicago was a request of “O, Davidson!” from Jan
Garber. Another Chicagoan, who insisted on being allowed to share expenses when the conversation ran several minutes overtime, was silenced
by the hysterical protests of a student only too glad to pay. By 10:30 the hallway of West was jammed
up to the first landing on the steps with students waiting to make calls, when suddenly a repairman arrived on
the scene. Forced to elbow his way through the throng, he found it nearly impossible to reach the booth. Finally
gaining the entrance, and unperturbed at finding an empty money box, he fixed the instrument, and the long-distance calls from
Davidson settled back down to the normal average of about two per month.

I. R. C. Convention (Continued from Page 1, Col. 2)
At 2:30 P.M. a discussion, “Munitions Industry,” will begin at 3:30 P.M. Leader, Dr. C. B. Gosnell, Emory University, and
collaborator, Dr. J. M. McConnell, Davidson. A banquet will be served to the college representatives after terminating the Munitions Industry
question. Dr. Otto Nathan, of Princeton University, will be introduced by Dr. A. Currie, of Davidson, to speak to the
members of the conference. The Saturday program consists of the following: Reports from International Relations Clubs, at 9:30 A.M.; Business
Meeting 11:30 A.M.; and lunch, 12:30 P.M. Through last week, 30 delegates and 4 faculty advisors had definitely signed up
as representatives. Places for the majority of the delegates have been found in private homes around the campus, Lamont Brown,
who is in charge of placing all delegates, states. Warner DuBose is in charge of Registration, and Mims Rogers is
head of the Entertainment Committee.

Heifetz Gives Program
“Yes. After all, most popular music is taken from Beethoven, Bach, and Liszt.” Then, just as I was terminating the
interview, I felt a touch on my arm, and turned. At the stage door was an impatient gentleman in full
evening dress. The manager turned to me with a frown, and whispered: “Please, the president of the college is waiting.”

Let Us Serve You
We Are The Best In Shoe Repairing
BUFF SHOE SHOP

Young Minister (Continued from Page 3)
Christ Jesus was taken out into the courtyard. John entered the court; Peter lagged behind and John had to return
for him. A damsel at the door recognized Peter and said to him, “And art thou not also one of
this Man’s disciples?” Impetuous Peter answered: “I know Him not.” Impetuous Peter continued his vehement denial until he looked up,
drawn by some magic power and there stood Jesus. Shame, remorse, and pain cut Peter. Who among us has not
done at least once, what Simon Peter did? Yes, we follow Him afar off and say we know Him not.
That is why we all feel such sympathy for Peter because he represents us all. Are we not all named
Peter? Every man hears the crowing of the cock, said the speaker in his Vesper talk. Not until the denials
cease will the cock be silent, said Rev. Peter Marshall in terminating his talk. Professor Pfohl and his symphony orchestra
offered several selections for the Y. M. C. A. Vesper Services. Dr. Walter L. Lingle, president of Davidson College, introduced
Rev. Marshall at the morning worship. Dr. Lingle called attention to the Belmont Plan, recently endorsed by the Davidson Presbyterian
Congregation in order to secure funds to carry out certain Church functions. Rev. Peter Marshall, pastor of the Westminster Presbyterian
Church of Atlanta, Georgia, emigrated from Scotland about ten years ago, after having graduated from the University of Glasgow. He
expresses his excellent ideas in a pleasing and delightful manner. Dr. Marshall, an inspiring young minister, is exceedingly popular among
the young people.

Our Service Speaks For Itself
Visit Us Before The Dances
Norton’s Barber Shop

FRIDAY, Davidson Theatre
WEDNESDAY AND THURSDAY, FEB. 13 AND 14
LIVES OF A BENGAL LANCER
With Gary Cooper, Franchot Tone, and Richard Cromwell

ENTER MADAME
With Elissa Landi and Lyle Talbot

MONDAY AND TUESDAY, FEB. 18 AND 19
WE LIVE AGAIN
With Anna Sten and Fredric March

FEB. 16
CARS FOR RENT
Gulf Gas and Oil
M. P. HENDERSON

A section of the department where Chesterfield tobaccos are blended and cross-blended.

MONDAY WEDNESDAY SATURDAY
LUCREZIA LILY RICHARD
BORI PONS BONELLI
KOSTELANETZ ORCHESTRA AND CHORUS
9 P. M. (E. S. T.) —COLUMBIA NETWORK

Southern Maryland. Then in addition to grown tobaccos we take tobacco grown in Turkey and Greece. We balance these mild,
ripe homegrown tobaccos with the right amounts and the right kinds of

In making Chesterfields we take Bright tobacco from Virginia, the Carolinas, Georgia and Florida. We take Burley tobacco from Kentucky
and Tennessee, and tobacco from

Just what is meant by cross-blending tobaccos ... and how does it make a cigarette milder and taste better... Well,
in blending you take two or more tobaccos and mix them together—a rather simple process. But cross-blending goes a step
further... aromatic Turkish. Then, instead of just mixing the tobaccos together, we blend and cross-blend them so that all the
different flavors go together into one full flavor—the Chesterfield taste these homegrown that so many smokers like. Cross-blending tobaccos as
it is done in Chesterfields gives the cigarette a pleasing taste and aroma—they're mild and yet They Satisfy.
