THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 6, 1935

WILDCATS BEGIN SPRING ATHLETICS PROGRAM

In the Field of Sports

BARIUM-SPRINGS DAY TO BE OBSERVED HERE AS

By MAINOR BROWN

KNOWING DARKY

Dick of Sidney and John, janitors in East and West Dormitories, respectively, is what Hunsucker, invalid brother vernacular would term a “knowing darky” when it comes to the question of athletics. Despite his fifteen years of confinement with paralysis, there is no subject regarding the world of sports that he can't discuss intelligently, and add a lot to what you might know about it yourself. Davidson picks the all-star teams long before the experts and his selections will include most of the ones named by them, along with a few others that he feels are more qualified than the official choices. Nothing is new to him about the Wildcats’ lair even though he hasn’t seen it in more than a decade and a half. His information isn't limited to athletics. He has during his years of illness read quite prodigiously about many other subjects. The sports world, however, is his specialty. Dick is a very interesting character, and appreciates visits from his white friends. It would be worth your while to go see him sometime over in the colored village, and let him tell you some good news about the Wildcats.

BARIUM DAY

Saturday will be the second Barium Springs Day that has been celebrated at Davidson. This is one place that certainly deserves “a day” at Davidson. For nearly ten years Barium Springs Orphanage, which is so ably superintended by Mr. Johnston, has sent to Davidson some of its most outstanding athletes. Such men as Thad Brock and Walter Fraley, who wore the Red and Black in the late 1920s, hailed from the Presbyterian Orphanage. Julian West, president of the student body in 1933-34, was another protege of this institution, and several outstanding men who are now enrolled at Davidson came from the Orphans’ Home. The institution has, undoubtedly, contributed more to Davidson than any other in the country, so it is the least Davidson can do to extend a hearty welcome to Barium Springs, and help to make “Barium Springs Day" a traditional institution in the yearly program of the college.

SPRING HERE

As spring peers around the corner the sports world turns its thoughts and attention from the hardwood and mat to the diamond, cinderpath and other parts of the terrain where outdoor games are played in the warm seasons. We have gotten a glimpse already of what the Wildcats should have in the track department this season, but nothing has been revealed up to this time about baseball prospects. It would seem, however, that Coach Laird should put a rather formidable nine on the diamond. He has a number of lettermen from the 1934 club, several reserves of last season will be bidding fair for position, and there is some very promising talent among the ones rising from the yearling outfit of a year ago. Pitchers are, of course, the big problem on any baseball team, and the Wildcat mentor is extremely fortunate in having two star lettermen hurlers back for the 1935 campaign. They are Charlie Harris and Jack Jenkins, both of whom twirl in the orthodox fashion, and show plenty of stuff when the time comes. With these two veterans on hand as a nucleus, Coach Laird should present a crew of competent moundsmen, which will be a tremendous stride toward building one of those “air-tight, hit-proof” nines.

PROSPECTS FOR BASEBALL CLUB APPEAR BRIGHT

Morgan, Mackorell, Harris, Ravenel, And Wingfield Are Outstanding Veterans

18 GAMES SCHEDULED

Game, March 28, With Michigan State Opens Season

The Davidson Wildcats, with ten lettermen back this season, went through their initial practice early this week. Eighteen games, sixteen of which are against the other four “Big Five” nines, are booked for Coach Laird’s proteges. With ten lettermen back the outlook for the Davidson nine this season is very bright. The returning lettermen are as follows: Infielders, Johnny Mackorell, Floyd Bumgarner, and “Woody” Burns; outfielders, Teal Rogers and Jim Morgan; pitchers, Charley Harris, Jack Jenkins and Paul Coble; catchers, “Wimpy” Ravenel and George Wingfield. The infield seems to be pretty well fixed for this season. At the initial sack Burns is back and should hold down the sack, although Tom Corbin will give him plenty of competition. At the keystone, sack will be found Bumgarner, with Mackorell at the hot corner. Bill Quick and “Hank” Loftin will have the shortstop job between them. A. P. Howard, a sophomore, will also be a candidate for the infield. In the outfield, two regulars from last season, Rogers and Morgan, will patrol; the other outfield berth going to Johnny Partridge or Ed Armfield. The battery men have been working out in the gym since last Wednesday in an effort to round into shape. Three hurlers from last year, Harris, Jenkins and Coble, will probably see a great deal of mound duty this season. Henry Cathey, “Lefty” Porter and Jack Summerville will round out the pitchers. Porter is the only southpaw among the pitchers. The Wildcats will be well fortified behind the plate with Wingfield and Ravenel back. Burns, Don Stewart, and Jim Dixon will also attempt to break in back of the plate with Dixon having the edge. Davidson will open the season on the 29th of March, when they will meet the Michigan State nine here. Then after a game with Lenoir-Rhyne at Hickory April 2, the Wildcats will open their “Big Five” campaign of sixteen games with the Carolina Tar Heels here on a two-game stay, April 5 and 6.

Spring Football Squad Ends Season Saturday

Last Monday a large squad of Davidson football candidates entered their last week of preparation for next year's tough schedule. For six weeks fifty men have been going through their paces under the direction of Coaches Newton and McIver, assisted by some of the senior members of last year’s team. Soon after the start of practice the large group was divided into two squads, the Greys and the Reds. These two teams have opposed each other six times, with the Greys now holding an advantage of five to one in games won. All the contests were close, however, none being decided by a margin greater than one touchdown. Thursday the Greys hung up their fifth victory with a 6-0 win. Paul Pittman skirted the Red flank in the first period for the only marker. In the third period the Reds threatened, but superior line play by their opponents resisted them. There were no practices Friday and Saturday, the coaches having left town to attend a coaches’ conference.

BLACKWELDER LEADER

Leroy Blackwelder was chosen by the Wildcat wrestlers to be their captain in 1936. Leroy, vulgarly known as “Big 'Un,” is truly worthy of the honor. He won every match during the past season, and didn’t one time wrestle a man that weighed as little or less than he did. That’s no bad record for a man who has only been associated with the game for two years. Phifer Erwin will succeed Mack Porter as manager of the grappling squad. This is a job that requires no small amount of work, and Mack has handled it in such a way as to merit the heartiest congratulations this corner can bestow.

SPRING SPORTS MANAGERS

Left to right, Blanton Little, Frosh Track; Jimmy Simpson, Varsity Track; Ed Garrett, Varsity Tennis; Bob Orr, Varsity Baseball; and Bill Livingston, Frosh Baseball.

ATHLETIC CALENDAR

MARCH:
Saturday, 9: Track, Carolina Indoor Meet (freshmen and varsity), Chapel Hill.
Thursday, 21: Tennis, Lenoir-Rhyne vs. varsity, here.
Friday, 22: Golf, N. C. State vs. varsity, Charlotte.
Saturday, 23: Track, Wake Forest vs. varsity and freshmen, there.
Monday, 25: Golf, Hampden-Sydney vs. varsity, Charlotte.
Wednesday, 27: Track, Furman vs. varsity, here.
Friday, 29: Baseball, Michigan State vs. varsity, here; Tennis, University of Florida vs. varsity, there; Golf, Furman vs. varsity, there.
Saturday, 30: Golf, Georgia Tech vs. varsity, there; Tennis, Rollins vs. varsity, there.

APRIL:
Monday, 1: Golf, University of Florida vs. varsity, there; Tennis, Georgia Tech vs. varsity, there.
Tuesday, 2: Tennis, Emory vs. varsity, there.
Wednesday, 3: Golf, College of Charleston vs. varsity, there.
Thursday, 4: Tennis, South Carolina vs. varsity, there.
Friday, 5: Baseball, Carolina vs. varsity, here.
Saturday, 6: Baseball, Carolina vs. varsity, here; Track, Richmond University vs. (varsity and freshmen), there; Tennis, North Carolina vs. varsity, here.
Monday, 8: Baseball, Wake Forest vs. varsity, there.
Tuesday, 9: Baseball, Wake Forest vs. varsity, there; Gastonia High vs. freshmen, there.
Friday, 12: Baseball, Duke vs. varsity, here; Tennis, William and Mary vs. varsity, there.
Saturday, 13: Track, University of Tennessee vs. varsity, there; Tennis, Richmond University vs. varsity, there; Baseball, Duke vs. varsity, Southern Pines; Golf, Wake Forest vs. varsity, Charlotte (tentative).
Monday, 15: Baseball, Gastonia High vs. freshmen, here.
Wednesday, 17: Golf, University of Richmond vs. varsity, Charlotte.
Thursday, 18: Baseball, Boiling Springs vs. freshmen, there.
Friday, 19: Baseball, Duke vs. varsity, there; Rutherfordton vs. freshmen, there.Freshmen, there; Tennis, South Carolina vs. varsity, here, Saturday, 20: Baseball, Duke vs. varsity, there; Brevard vs. freshmen, there; Tennis, Richmond University vs. varsity, here; Track, V. P. I. (varsity and freshmen), here. 

Tuesday, 23: Baseball, Carolina vs. varsity, there; Boiling Springs vs. freshmen, here. 

Wednesday, 24: Baseball, Carolina vs. varsity, there. 

Thursday, 25: Baseball, Belmont vs. freshmen, here. 

25, 26, 27: Golf, tournament sponsored by the University of Georgia. 

Friday, 26: Track, P. C. vs. freshmen, there. 

Saturday, 27: Track, Penn Relays; Baseball, Wingate vs. freshmen, here. 

Monday, 29: Baseball, State vs. varsity, here. 

Tuesday, 30: Baseball, State vs. varsity, here. 

MAY: 

Wednesday, 1: Baseball, Wake Forest vs. varsity, here. 

Thursday, 2: Baseball, Wake Forest vs. varsity, here; Tennis, Elon vs. varsity, here; Golf, N. C. State vs. varsity, there. 

Friday, 3: Golf, University of North Carolina vs. varsity, there. 

Saturday, 4: Track, Duke vs. varsity, here; Baseball, Wingate vs. freshmen, there; Golf, State Tournament at Durham. 

Wednesday, 8: Baseball, Brevard vs. freshmen, here. 

Friday, 10: Baseball, State vs. varsity, there; Golf, Georgia Tech vs. varsity, Charlotte. 

Saturday, 11: Track, State Meet (freshmen and varsity); Baseball, State vs. varsity, there; Belmont vs. freshmen, there.

TENNIS TOURNEY NOW UNDERWAY

The annual spring varsity tennis tournament got underway early this week with over twenty entries. The tournament, which is held every year for the purpose of selecting members of the varsity tennis team, this year will be run off under the direction of Ed Garrett, varsity tennis manager. The first round of the tournament was completed on Tuesday. Four men were seeded in the pairings: 1, Dudley Elvery; 2, Tommy Phifer; 3, Carlysle Lewis, and 4, Martin Barnett. These men are veterans of last year's team and will probably occupy the first four positions on the team this year. The other two places will be filled in accordance with the tournament results and by elimination. 

The netmen face a difficult schedule this season. They will meet a large assortment of the best teams in North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, Florida, and Virginia. An extensive trip is scheduled for the spring holidays, when six players and the manager will leave for an eight-day tour of South Carolina, Georgia, and Florida.

FROSH RUNNERS SHOWING FORM

With the end of winter sports and the beginning of the spring sports, the freshman track team has commenced already to take form and to promise that the class of ’38 will be well represented in this line. Next Monday the yearlings will forsake the well-worn board track and will begin to re-warm the cinders on Richardson Field. The regular track season will begin at that time and it is expected that there will be quite a number of candidates for this year’s freshman team.

BUFF SHOE SHOP
“When It’s Done BY BUFF That Says Enough”

TRACKMEN PREPARE FOR GAMES AT CHAPEL HILL

SOPHS DAUBBED 2-0 IN SOCCER

Juniors Win Intramural Championship By Thrilling Triumph Over Centennials

Last Friday afternoon the intramural soccer season was terminated by a thrilling overtime game which gave the juniors just time enough to slip two winning shots through the sophomore goal. The game was to decide the championship in the class tournament between the centennials and the juniors, since each had won an equal number of games. The two teams had met before and had fought through an extra period to a 1-1 tie. Not until midway through the second half of last Friday’s game did either team show any offense, each playing more defense, apparently afraid of being scored on. At the end of the first extra period, the class of ’36 began to show the superiority which was to give them the game. With about two minutes to play in the second overtime period, a centennial defenseman tapped the ball out of bounds behind his own goal line and “Tinkle” Bell, junior flash, elected to boot the corner kick. The kick was a beauty, it soared high into the air and dropped directly in front of the sophomore goal and Arthur Haake jumped up to meet it and headed it past the sophomore goal—the prettiest play of the game. 

Not more than twenty-five seconds later, the juniors clustered around the centennial goal and managed to slip another through. The game ended with the score 2-0 for the third-year men. For the champions, Bell, Haake and Eddie Donigan furnished the spark in the forward line for the winners, while George Leukel, John McMullen and Johnny Partridge supplied the backbone for the defense. For the losers, Graham, Squires and Bob Wilson led the attack and Kenneth Scott, Frank Brown and Kenneth Knorr shone in the defense. It may be said of the centennials that they had some good material and plenty of the fight which it takes, but lacked the organization required to win. The tournament was a bit unusual in that each class played only one game with each one of the other classes, with the exception of the final playoff. It is customary for all the teams to at least have a return game. Despite this one peculiarity, the tournament created quite a bit of interest which may cause soccer to be introduced as a varsity sport next year. 

The line-ups:

Juniors Position Sophomores
Gregory Ghent Knorr
McMullen LF Link
Partridge RF Brown, F.
Furness LH Robinson
Alexander CH Scott
Harper RH Brown, J.
Donigan LW Pharr
Jenkens IHC Poe
Bell CF McClanahan
Leukel RI Wilson
Haake RW Squires

Substitutions: Juniors—Carlos Young, Lamont Brown. Sophomores—Kennedy, Gene Vogler. Referee — “Wimpy” Ravenel.

Thus far, in the pre-season training, Wade Barrow, Bill Wicker, Bruce Parcell, John Hardin, Leonard Fort, Johnny Freeman, and Bill Hogan are the best.

Frazier, Dickson, And Parker Will Compete In Conference Indoor Meet

FROSH ALSO ENTERED

Barrow, Wicker, And Hardin To Represent Kittens

With the first outdoor meet slightly more than two weeks off and the second indoor contest coming up this Saturday, the Davidson track and field contestants are busily engaged in intensive practice for the approaching season. A tentative schedule of meets bids fair to present the stiffest program a Davidson track team has faced in years. The inadequate length of time for proper preparation necessitates unusually concentrated work during the next few weeks, and the cinderpathmen are losing no time in getting into shape. With the horizon considerably darkened by the loss of Captain Fred McPhail, stellar hurdler, additional weight has been thrown upon the shoulders of the remaining men, who have begun in earnest to take up where last year’s successful aggregation left off. Although no definite training rules have been adopted as yet, at a meeting of both varsity and freshman squads held last Thursday afternoon Captain Pritchett stressed the importance of beginning early to get into good physical condition. A training table was started at the hotel on the first of this month, and most of the men are getting their meals there. Extensive training begins on the 11th, when, the weather permitting, the entire squad will leave the boards and work out regularly on Richardson Field. Encouraged by the excellent performances of Earl Frazier and John Lee in the Charlotte indoor meet a week ago last Monday, Captain Pritchett and Heath Whittle, the Davidson mentors, are spending most of their time working with those candidates who are not so sure to be consistent point winners but in whose hands rests the fate of this year's team. According to Captain Pritchett, the success of the team depends largely upon the manner in which these men deliver. Such men as Parker, in the hurdles; A. J. Potter and John Newton, in the weights; Walter Dickson, Johnny Pierce, and Fritz Byerly, sprinters, and Billy Merchant, George Gullette and Bill Bell, distance runners, are the ones who must come through in grand style to give the Wildcats a winning combination. Davidson will be represented at the annual Southern Conference Indoor Games, held at Chapel Hill on Saturday, by five, and possibly six, men: Frazier, Parker, and Dickson, varsity competitors, and Freshmen Wicker and Barrow, and possibly Hardin. Because there is no mile nor two-mile events in the non-conference division, Frazier will enter the half-mile. Parker will run the 60-yard high hurdles, and Dickson the 60-yard dash. Barrow and Wicker will compete in the 60-yard high hurdles, and Barrow and Hardin in the dash. The limited number of events open to members of non-conference teams prevents Davidson from being represented by a larger delegation. Colleges which are expected to have entries in the non-conference division are Richmond, Georgetown, George Washington, William and Mary, Davidson, and possibly a few others. The freshmen competition is open to both Southern Conference teams and outsiders.

THE TAVERN HOTEL

Delicious Meals

THE TAVERN FOR YOUNG PEOPLE

Our cuisine caters to the tastes of the young set—all sorts of “quick orders” as well as daily specials. The beautiful part of the whole system is the inexpensiveness of the delightful meal you get at the Tavern.

Charlotte, North Carolina