THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 13, 1935

The Davidsonian
Founded by the Class of 1915

MEMBER
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Printed by the QUEEN CITY PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate year.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879.

ARTICLES FOR PUBLICATION must be in the hands of Managing Editors by 4:00 o'clock p.m., Monday. Letters to the Editor are welcomed, but all communications intended for publication must be signed.

K. D. WEEKS ........ Editor
J. A. C. WADSWORTH .... Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
Managing Editor ........ Martin BARNETT
Managing Editor ........ David HARRIS
Managing Editor ........ Tom MARCHANT
Managing Editor ........ G. L. GULLETTE
Managing Editor ........ B. B. MCPHAIL
Sports Editor ........ Jack HELLINGER
Exchange Editor ........ (Name missing)

BUSINESS STAFF
J. B. GOSLEN ........ Asst. Business Mgr.
Val CASSELS ........ Asst. Business Mgr.
Tom ROSS ........ Asst. Business Mgr.
J. S. McMURRIN ........ Asst. Business Mgr.
Richie MORROW ........ Asst. Business Mgr.

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 13, 1935

Can there be a more horrible object in existence than an eloquent man not speaking the truth? — Carlyle.

NEGLECTED READING DURING SPARE TIME

The paradoxical attitude toward a liberal education—This pompous and rather meaningless beginning simply means that the majority of the students, who have signified their desire to obtain a liberal education by entering college, have turned their backs on one of the greatest mediums for obtaining such an education, the reading of books.

It seems to be a generally recognized fact that most college students go through their four years course without doing any reading except that required, which is usually referred to as the irksome parallel. In fact, there are those who rather glorify in this attitude, ridiculing those who read as pale bespectacled scholars. They would boast that they have gone through or are going through college with as little time as possible spent in boredom with books. Yet this attitude seems to be an absurd and surprising thing when one reflects that their avowed aim is to obtain a liberal education and absorb something of that fleeting thing called culture. It would seem that such a person is vastly self-deceived in his attitude or if not he is certainly in the wrong place.

To point out the benefits of reading seems to be the problem of defining the obvious. It is merely the task of attempting to turn eyes to the obvious. Books parade the great minds of the ages to those who would read. They add breadth and sympathy to one’s outlook on life. They enable one to break away from a petty stereotyped conversation to one which will reflect its interesting source. In short, without them a liberal education is impossible.

Some may maintain that even though these benefits are great a man who is in the busy run of life in the modern college has no time for reading. It may be granted that a college man has a great diversity of activities that occupy his time, yet there is usually time for what one wants to do. There is time to “bull,” time to play, some time for classes and studies, and time for activities of varied natures, but no time for reading—so say those who profess to be interested in a liberal education. There is time for reading. A book picked up in odd moments adds color to those moments which would be otherwise wasted.

Reading should be done not only for the demands of a cultured society, nor for parallel for a professor, but for the pure pleasure of reading. One can pick up a book and be transported wherever his fancy and the book lead. One who has never heard the shouts of the Trojan heroes and the war cry of the Valkyries nor lived with the great characters who live only in books has missed something—that something whose presence is so vital to a liberal education. — J. W.

“We must educate the intellect so the student will be fitted to figure out things for himself and meet the changing conditions of this modern world,” says Dr. William F. Pierce, president of Kenyon College (Gambier, O.)

INACTIVE CLUBS ON THE CAMPUS

“Dead at 30, buried at 60.” Probably the truth of this statement by Dr. Nicholas Murray Butler, who thus writes the epitaph of the average man, may be doubted at times; possibly the majority of us, in concurrence with its author, are led to look upon such observations with greater regard as we grow older, and as our powers of observation are enhanced.

But to even the most casual observer, it is apparent that the epitaph by Dr. Butler may be fitly used to describe the condition of some honorary organizations on the campus. The fact stands out in bold relief, a constant source of shame to members of inactive organizations, and a resultant means of pride to those of the better clubs and fraternities.

Honorary fraternities were organized for the twofold purpose of recognizing marked ability along certain lines, and of promoting fellowship among faculty and student body. Yet the status of many would seem to indicate that their original objectives have been entirely forgotten. Indeed a few have degenerated to the extent that membership means only the placement of another phrase under one’s picture in the annual.

On the other hand, the majority of honorary organizations have true merit. Meetings are held at regular intervals; constructive work is accomplished; the association of faculty and students is increased. Evidently some means should be taken to revive dying honorary fraternities, or else their demise should be hastened, and their burial speedily accomplished. — P. Y. H.

WHAT WILL BE THE FUTURE OF S. P. U.?

One of the most interesting developments in the student effort at self-government this year has been the creation of the Student Policies Union. This organization can easily become one of the most valuable and influential of student groups, it may degenerate into a mere political alliance, or, as is most probable, it will die of old age and neglect with the graduation of its present leaders.

From time to time in the past Davidson has seen other sporadic movements of similar nature. Most of them died aborning. The rest, after a year of desultory existence, gave up the struggle in ignominious defeat on the failure of their initial efforts. If one agrees that the social purpose expressed by these organizations represents a preponderance of student opinion, one wonders at their lack of continuity.

Certainly, the lack of concerted effort and perseverance on the part of those interested has been in a large measure responsible for the failure of such movements. During those stormy meetings out of which the Union grew, no definite provision was made for its continuance. Ruled at first by a spirit of boisterous, almost riotous, optimism, many of its members have never fully realized the seriousness of its purpose and the difficulty of its goal.

Such a body can and should have a very definite place in our campus activities. Should its request for campus dancing be granted, the Student Policies Union should become a powerful factor in seeing these dances properly conducted and in every way possible offering its cooperation to the Board of Trustees. However, the usefulness of the Union need not end here. It may espouse any one of a dozen other worthy objectives, as: aiding the college administration in a campaign for funds to build our greatly needed social center; sponsoring the construction of the long dreamed of swimming pool; seeing that freshmen are properly instructed in Davidson traditions and the meaning of “that Wildcat spirit.” There are many others.

The decision on dancing has been deferred until the June meeting of the Board, when most of the students whom it concerns will be scattered to their homes. As matters now stand, an adverse decision could meet with no organized protest, and it would be September before the campaign could be renewed.

“In union there is strength” is platitudinous, but true. Under the guidance of its present leaders the Union is in a position to effect a more permanent organization. If its members feel their movement is worthy of a future, they should act now to perpetuate it. Whether the Student Policies Union is, in the words of another student publication, merely “an upstart organization,” or whether it is worthy of its high ideals and aim, will depend on the action of the next few weeks. — D. T.

THE COLLEGIATE REVIEW

“Ninety percent of last year’s graduates in engineering at Washington University (St. Louis, Mo.) have obtained jobs,” a recent survey revealed.

During the last 28 years, retired faculty members of Harvard University (Cambridge, Mass.) have received more than $2,250,000 from the Carnegie Foundation.

Tests made at two large American colleges tend to prove that frogs and turtles are deaf to the human voice.

COMPASSING THE CAMPUS
By Scotty McLeod

Here we thought Junior Speaking would be a big relief from ballot-signing, but here comes the news from the third-class hop committee that we have to vote if we go to the dances. No surcease for the pen-pushers at Davidson. It is not enough to vote, vote, vote in chapel every day for six weeks. Now we must take thought and cast our ballot for the lady on the floor who shows the most outward and striking semblance of personal pulchritude. Not satisfied with voting for presidents, their vices, etc., the juniors make us vote for our favorite girl. Whatta life!

One good thing. The good old stag really gets his chance now. Undoubtedly the mated males will vote for their own femmes and the balance of power will fall to the unattached gentlemen who cast ballots. This calls for a bit of bribery—let the stags snake on your date and they will vote for her. If the snaking is good, they may even vote for her twice.

At least one Davidson boy has some power with the ladies. A sophomore from Winston-Salem put it over on the rest ofus and travelled with Mr. Blackman to York where he and Little Bit woke up a preacher to say the rites. She was a Little Bit Black and now she’s a Little Bit Moore. She says they're to live in Charlotte on Fifth Street, if you're interested. At Home, after April first. Possibly the best dormitory in school for a good bull session is the new Georgia. Frequent indulgers are the great Baron Harkins, who is going to Virginia next year; Paul (Rah Rah Goof) Warren, candidate for 440 honors in track; Budd Okey, champion after-dinner volcano; Wimpy (Hammer) Ravenel, who points a menacing finger when his ire is aroused; Ben (Red Top) Rose, nuf sed; Dan Griffin, of the Mississippi Griffins, and Sugg and Dyer, Phi Gam conversationalists deluxe. Bob Vance and Charlie Mauze are back in their old quarters again after a temporary removal to number 0 Watts. Zero Watts supplied all the modern conveniences and was considered a very good room but some of the second-floor Watts boys objected to the obstruction which was set up in the house-moving. It seems that the furniture, radio, lamps, beds, desks, suits, ties, and personal stuff which occupied all but standing room of Zero Watts somewhat impeded the usual and regular habits of the objectors. Of course, it’s very cozy to have music from a radio while you shave, but when you find a necktie in your mouth after brushing your teeth, it does cause a little discomfort. And, Mauze and Vance would have undoubtedly been greatly annoyed if they had continued to live in the cannery. Think of the night-long interruptions by pill-taking fellow students, Phil Cook notably. Vance has sold his stock in American Can. Some enterprising student should have set up a gate at the door of Zero Watts while the two boys had their room there. Four or twelve boys in school didn’t get to visit it; they were out of the state at the time. Gate receipts would have been enough to build a good swimming pool or a student store or something. A social center, doncherno. Dr. Miller, in vespers Sunday eve, gave a thoughtful talk in regard to stewardship. He brought up a number of points not so evident to the average thinker. The trustees of our time, possessions, and lives, we are responsible in the end and must account to Jehovah for our stewardship. The well-known parable of the stewards was read. One of the best vesper services we've had this year. Lawson Greenham, a former professor at Queens University (Belfast, Ireland), claims he has perfected a machine with which he will be able to create rain at will at a cost of from $20 to $50 per rainstorm. The state legislature of Indiana is considering a proposal to insure against injury or disablement all football and basketball players participating in regularly scheduled games of Indiana schools, colleges, and athletic associations. Pennsylvania has nine medical colleges, seven of which are in Philadelphia. 

From DAVIDSONIANS of Years Gone By

FIVE YEARS AGO
Freshman baseball team announces twelve-game schedule . . . Forensic Council publishes debate program . . . Queen and King lead “Duke” to 6-0 victory over “Carolina” in the game of spring practice . . . Varsity golf team, led by Captain Jack Pepper, defeats faculty team, 13 to 5 . . . Fifty men to be sent to University of West Virginia track meet, March 22 . . . Junior Speaking announced for next weekend . . . Student body elections scheduled for Friday . . . Five seniors are elected to Phi Beta Kappa . . . Freshman track stars show up well in annual indoor meet in Carolina’s Tin Can.

TEN YEARS AGO
Student body entertained by songbirds of Queens College . . . Coach Tilson arranges for state-wide high school track meet to be held here March 21 . . . Manager Beall opens lists for annual spring tennis tournament . . . Davidson smothers Hickory 48-0 in final game of spring practice . . . Baseball team goes into last stages of preparation for opening game with Oak Ridge March 30 . . . Horseshoe pitching takes campus by storm . . . Two debating teams picked from twenty-two freshman aspirants . . . Battalion makes splendid showing before government inspector . . . Freshman class presents sweaters to varsity football lettermen.

FIFTEEN YEARS AGO
Basketball team closes mediocre season . . . Coach Hengeveld cuts baseball squad to thirty men . . . Charlotte High defeats Belmont 47-17 in Davidson gym to win state championship . . . Watts leads dormitories in Sunday School attendance . . . Miss Cornelia Shaw completing thirteenth year as librarian . . . Battalion passes government inspection with flying colors.

OUR CONTEMPORARIES
By Eni Bowers

“Mr. Chips” Takes The Care
In an attempt to discover what Washington and Lee students in general reading matter, the librarian has compiled a list of statistics. In the fiction class James Hilton’s “Goodbye Mr. Chips” received first place in popularity. In general reading the drama showed the heaviest circulation, with O’Neill’s “Days Without End.” In the biography alcove Josephson’s “The Robber Baron” seems to have been removed the most. On the rental shelf Alexander Woolcott’s “Lost Horizon” and Miller's “Lamb in His Bosom” and Stark Young's “So Red the Rose.”

Gedunking?
Up at Brown University they recently held an “intercollegiate doughnut eating contest.” Press dispatches failed to state whether dunking was allowed.

From Worse To Better
Seven former students at the Louisiana State University, who were ousted because they wrote articles and editorials in the college newspaper criticizing Huey Long, the Louisiana demi-god, have enrolled in the school of journalism at the University of Missouri. They would have been welcomed in any other good school of journalism—my way of thinking.

Need A Course In Ed. 11
Perhaps Professor Einstein should spend a little time studying Educational Psychology. At Princeton, Einstein failed to interest the students in his lectures on Astronomy. The genius gave his lecture to the elementary astronomy class and the second class failed to report for the lecture.

Rank Universities
Twelve colleges were listed by Edwin Embree of the Julius Rosenwald fund as the best in the nation. They are in Mr. Embree’s order: Harvard, Columbia, Chicago, Yale, California, Minnesota, Cornell, Michigan, Wisconsin, Iowa, Princeton, and Johns Hopkins.

Faith In Signs
On the Northwestern campus is a sign outside a church which reads, “Do you know what Hell is?” Underneath are these words: “Come and hear our organist.”

How Do You Stack Up?
According to researches this is how an average college man is classified physically: 68 inches tall, weighs 152 pounds, can run the 100 in 12 3/5 seconds, can broad jump 15 1/2 feet, swims 50 yards in 27 seconds, can rescue a drowning person and swim 19 yards with him, if aroused, he will give and take in the manly art of self-defense, about which he has only a limited knowledge.

An Eye For Business
An idea that would benefit several deserving Deacons at Wake Forest has been recently suggested. That is to have a post office for the college and the students put in the new administration building. The box rent, at the same rate as they are now paying, would pay tuition for several self-help students.

STUDENTS TAKE MILITARY EXAM
Cadet Captain and Adjutant James Batte, Edward I. McConnell and Albert E. Seifert went to Ft. McPherson, Ga., last week for the purpose of taking examinations for entrance into West Point Military Academy. Cadet Captain and Adjutant Batte having received an alternate appointment as a cadet at West Point Military Academy, was granted a complete waiver on all subjects pertaining to mental examination based upon his scholastic accomplishments at Davidson, but was required to take a complete physical examination. Edward I. McConnell, of Gastonia, a junior student last semester at Davidson, was ordered to Fort McPherson, Ga., for the purpose of taking a competitive examination among National Guardsmen from several other states. He was one of the two from North Carolina who had previously qualified for the examination. Albert E. Seifert, a freshman at Davidson last semester, received an appointment at large from the President subject to a competitive examination to be held at Fort McPherson the week of March 5. The results of these examinations have not yet been received, as the papers have to be sent to West Point for correction and rating.

The Good Old Days
Some 50 years ago on Friday 13th, two students at the University of South Carolina had a misunderstanding in the mess hall over a plate of fish. One student reached for the plate before the other had an opportunity to help himself. So they challenged each other to a duel. As a result, one of them was killed and never got to touch the fish. The other one was expelled from school. He returned to his home and soon afterwards committed suicide. The fish wasn’t worth it after all. It’s a good thing that times have changed for there would be several students killed at each meal in the boarding houses.

Colleginia
It was rumored on the Oregon campus that nudist colony pictures would be shown in assembly. The entire student body showed up ... and found all the orchestra seats filled by members of the faculty . . . Dartmouth College is the ski capital of the world. There are 1,700 pairs of skis in the town of Hanover in which the college is located . . . No soft chamber music was played at the annual winter dinner of the Harvard Fly Club, which the President attended. Instead, the chimes of the Lowell House carillon pealed out for the Chief Executive’s benefit . . . The girls enrolled at the University of Edinburgh not only have to pay their own car-fare when the boyfriends take them home, but have to pay for their own theatre tickets as well.

Commencement Invitations
Fraternity Publications
1143 E. FOURTH ST.
Representatives
K. D. WEEKS
Fine Printing
QUEEN CITY PRINTING Co.
Visiting Cards
Personal and Fraternity Stationery
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
JOE WADSWORTH