THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 6, 1935

Seven Davidson Men Attend Annual Ministerial Meeting

Albright, Anderson, Clark, Man- son, Salango, Vass, Wicker Are Present

CONCLAVE AT CATAWBA
Dickson Installed As President For Coming Year

A delegation left Davidson Saturday morning at 8:30 to go to Catawba College, representing Davidson at the Annual Conference of
the N.C. Student Ministerial Association. The following Davidsonians were in attendance at the conference: G. F. Albright, I. B. Anderson,
M. Clark, W. Manson, J. Salango, L. C. Vass, and W. M. Wicker. Altogether, the conference was very helpful and
inspiring, especially the afternoon discussion and the address given at the banquet.

Y.M.C.A. Organizes Hall And Floor Devotionals

The “Y” has organized again this year the hall and floor devotional services, which have been a feature of “Y”
work for a number of years. A leader has been appointed for each hall to see that the meetings go
forward all right, two or three times a week, and also to help those on the hall who may be
in trouble or having difficulty in getting acclimated. These meetings, it is hoped, will serve as a bond, drawing closer
together those on the same hall, and also joining the dormitories and the whole college together through one organization. This
will also serve as a ready means of spreading “Y” information throughout the college. It is hoped that all will
be able to spare about three nights a week, so as to find fifteen minutes to be able to attend
these meetings. Various students take turns at leading.

FEATURES PFOHL
Davidson Broadcast Hour Is Changed to Friday Night

Prof. J. C. Pfohl, at the chapel organ, last week's radio program at four o'clock, Thursday, Oct. 31. Next week,
the band will broadcast at the new time, ten o'clock Friday night. In Thursday's broadcast, the program began with the
theme song, “O Davidson,” this time on the organ. Following this, Prof. Pfohl rendered a portion of the first movement
of Schubert's familiar “Unfinished Symphony.” The program was continued with two other well-known organ selections, “Minuet in G,” by Beethoven,
and Chopin's “Nocturne.” To add variety, Jack Tillotson, a freshman from Winston-Salem, interrupted the organ numbers to play Wagner's “O
Thou Sublime Sweet Evening Star,” on the baritone horn. The program concluded with “Chant Sans Paroles.”

Beta Theta Pi Pledges Entertain With Smoker

A reception for fraternity pledges was held, and new officers were installed. Rev. I. A. Dillard, of Charlotte, gave a
helpful and inspiring talk on “The Message for a Deeper Christian Life.” The new officers, who were installed at the
banquet, are: President, L. C. Vass, of Davidson; Recording Secretary, Paul Strauch, of Catawba; Treasurer, Samuel Meyers, of High Point.
High-lights of the banquet were given by the pledges of the Beta Theta Pi on last Wednesday evening. Witticisms, a
majority of pledges from all fraternities were on hand to hear a talk by Dr. Walter Lingle. In his talk,
Dr. Lingle told the boys that the invitation to friendship they had received is indeed an honor. He gave a
personal statement that one is spurred on to greater things when a group of friends is backing him. He also
said that fraternity life helps one to learn to pull together with others and to become a good mixer.

Welcome Alumni Rooms For The Week-End
HOTEL DAVIDSON

Commencement Invitations
Fraternity Publications
Visiting Cards
Personal and Fraternity Stationery
QUEEN CITY PRINTING Co.
1143 E. FOURTH ST.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Lamont Brown
Fine Printing
R. P. Morrow

NEW BOOKS ARE RECENTLY ACQUIRED VOLUMES COVER BIOGRAPHY, ART, AND MODERN PROBLEMS

Quite a number of books have been added to the college library during the past few weeks. These books cover
new subjects of art, biography, philosophy, and modern problems. “The Jews in American Life,” a book showing the part played
by the Jews of America in history, literature, music, art, the theatre, science, the professions, and economic life. It is
the first of a series of volumes prepared under the direction of the Service Bureau for Education in Human Relations.
They present an unbiased picture of the part played by such people as the Germans, Italians, Negroes, and others in
our country’s past and present. “Development of the League of Nations Idea,” contains two volumes of documents and correspondence of
Theodore Marburg. It points out the fact that the present League of Nations may prove wholly inadequate, but that the
idea is destined to prevail and to be realized in some efficient form of international government. In the field of
biography is “God's Soldier, General William Booth.” This is written in two volumes by Saint John Ervine. “Art in the
Western World” is an unusually interesting and stimulating account of the expression and value of art in western civilization. It
is written by David M. Robb and J. J. Garrison, and the arrangement of the material is well adopted to
classroom use. One of the chief purposes of the authors is to establish a basis for the intelligent appreciation of
art. Nearly four hundred illustrations are contained in the volume. “Social and Economic Relationships” is prepared as the 1935 Yearbook
by the Commission on Education for New Social Changes. It is a comprehensive review of the major social and economic
problems affecting education. “Three Interpretations of the Universe” takes up three conceptions of history: Preformation, Emergence, and Creation, and discusses
them in some of their leading exponents in the fields of philosophy and science. “Marginal Jurisdiction in the Seas” deals
primarily with jurisdiction over foreign smuggling craft and contains much material hitherto unpublished. It is written by William E. Masterson.
Special emphasis is placed upon court decisions, legislation and decrees, treaties, diplomatic correspondence, and orders and reports ofthe various departments
of governments. Powerful V. P. I. Freshmen Beat Kittens By 13-0 (Continued from page 4) there he smashed through his
right tackle for the touchdown, but on the try for the extra point, a lateral pass failed to work. The
game ended 13-0 in favor of the Gobblers. cause of their studies when time for initiation comes around and they
all had better get down to some hard work. After Dr. Lingle’s talk punch and crackers were served and the
boys were introduced to one another and became in Alabama and South Carolina. Col. J. T. Rhett, and spent the
week-end with relatives in Columbia, S. C. Jack, his son Prof. J. C. Pfohl will attend the autumn meeting of
the North Carolina Chapter of the American Guild of Organists, Thursday, Nov. 7, at Duke University, Durham. The evening organ
concert will be presented by Palmer Christian, who was one of the four artists on the Davidson concert series last
year. Mrs. W. G. McGavock entertained at an informal tea Wednesday afternoon, in honor of Mr. McGavock’s mother, who is
spending a few weeks in Davidson. Prof. and Mrs. J. P. Williams spent the week-end at their summer home in
Montreat. Mrs. Frazer Hood accompanied her sisters, the Misses Jessie and Corine Wagner, to their home in Mississippi, where she
will visit for several weeks. Rev. and Mrs. Elzie Myers left Tuesday for their new home in Albemarle. Rev. Myers
has been pastor for the local Methodist Church during the last three years. He will have charge of two Methodist
churches, one in Albemarle and one in Badin. Mrs. H. M. Moffett has returned from a visit with her brother,
Maj. Polk Gammon, at Clemson, S. C. Mrs. J. R. Withers returned Sunday from Brevard, where she spent a week
visiting relatives. Mr. and Mrs. Tom Lothery entertained the Eat-a-Bita-Pie Club, Thursday evening, at its regular meeting. Lewis Parker and
Cyrus Colvin, local Hi-Y officers, and Marion Bryant, student advisor, attended the county meeting of Hi-Y leaders, held in Charlotte
Wednesday afternoon. Pick Winners For Free Show Tickets (Continued from Page 4) Davidson ---- Duke (Cardolphepy NYE Coed Ghats INi3G)
Staterseesese nV, Pile eee ViM@ssccuC pasadena p aa annse neue coum aaSs UCT eRS vee ee ane Se eee eee
ve The Oxford Union style of debate, first introduced at Oxford University, is attracting increasing attention in the United States.
Swarthmore College was the first school to introduce the system into American intercollegiate debating. Nearly Two-Hundred Radios Enliven Life In
Dormitories There are on the Davidson College campus one hundred and eighty-seven radios. This number includes a hundred and seventy-seven
in the seven dormitories, one in the Y. M. C. A. hall and nine on fraternity row. This is a
radio for every 3.4 students so that every Wednesday night when Ray Noble comes on the air or when the
next championship boxing match is broadcast every student on the hill can listen in groups smaller than the regulation Davidson
bull-session. The order in which the dormitories rank in regard to the number of radios in each is: West, 39;
Watts, 37; East, 36; Georgia, 31; Rumple, 17; South, 10; North, 7. This average is an average of 25.2 radios
to each dormitory. The floors having the greatest numbers of radios are: 3rd floor West having twelve; followed by 3rd
floor Watts, and 2nd and 3rd floors Georgia with 11 each. 3rd floor West with 10, and 1st floor West
with 9 are runners-up in this list. As to the number of rooms to each radio, heading the list is
Georgia dormitory, where there is an average of .93 radios for every room. Next come Watts, where the average is
.77, and South, .62, Rumple, .56, North, .43, and East and West with .21 and .23 respectively. The presence of
such a large number of radios on the campus is a sure sign that the depression is over, for the
187 radios on the hill, at an average of $30 each, cost $5,340. This sum represents an investment of enough
money to send ten men through a year of college, buy four hundred much needed volumes for the College library,
or build the legendary swimming pool which the Student Store, bane of all pocket books, has been laboring so long
to finance. watching Ace Parker, it remained for “Honey” Hackney, Duke’s sophomore sensation, to pace the Dukes to victory. The
Devils, uncertain but encouraged, will seek to add their second win in succession when they tangle with the Wildcats here
next Saturday in Davidson’s annual home-coming game. WAKE FOREST — Walt Kitchin’s superb passing and inspiring leadership dominated the Deacon’s
19-0 victory over Walter Johnson’s Blue Stockings from Presbyterian College. Kitchin who has been the dominant figure in every game
for the Demon Deacons this year, piloted, passed, and kicked the Baptists to a clear cut win over the plucky
team from just across the border. Dallas Morris and Bert Shore, two Charlotte lads, also played important parts in Wake
Forest's victory. The Deacons will rest this weekend in preparation for their trip next week to Miami, Fla., where they
play Miami University. CINEMATIC COMMENTS DAVIDSON THEATRE Wednesday, Nov. 6 SHIP CAFE This is an exciting nerve stimulant for the
movie. The cast includes Carl Brisson and Arline Judge. Thursday and Friday, Nov. 7-8 THE DARK ANGEL A new, attractively
fresh Merle Oberon in a poignant and touching story. Fredrick March is the sightless soldier lover, and the suave Herbert
Marshall is excellent support. Saturday, Nov. 9 HI GAUCHO There’s some lilting music and plenty of colorful atmosphere in this
story of cattle ranching in the Argentine. In the cast, Stefi Duna, John Carroll, and Rod La Roque. Monday and
Tuesday, Nov. 11-12 THE LAST DAYS OF POMPEII The story is not the tale that we know for the producers
have taken it upon themselves to make a complete change. It is a story of a poor blacksmith (Preston Foster)
who decides after his wife and son die to make money and power his gods. He attains his ends only
to find everything he has built up shattered before him. A superb cast including Basil Rathbone, David Holt, and Dorothy
Wilson. Three Big Five Teams Win Out Last Weekend (Continued from Page 5) winning ways through a powerful second half
attack by defeating the Tennessee Vols, 19-6. Held to a 6-6 tie for the first two periods of the game,
the warriors of Wallace Wade returned to the battle to ring up two more scores and a decisive victory. With
the Vols TUXEDOS With Vest $24.45 These tuxedos are smartly tailored from high-quality unfinished worsted material. They have the new
dull lapels. Extra value at this popular price! A Tradition of Davidson Men: JOHNSON’S BARBER SHOP Now—Thru Sat. George Raft
“She Couldn’t Take It” With Joan Bennett Balcony Any Time 25¢ Day or Night All Next Week World Premier Kay
Francis in “I Found Stella Parish” Watch Our Ads. THE BROADWAY is soon to offer you the World’s Greatest Production
NO MATTER WHAT TYPE OF UNDERWEAR YOU PREFER— YOU’LL FIND IT MADE Quality and Service Is Built into Every Hanes
Garment On Sale at All Good Stores at Popular Prices P. H. HANES KNITTING COMPANY, Winston-Salem, N. C. TUXEDO SHIRTS
$2.00 TUX COLLARS .25c TUX BOWS 48c TUX SETS (Studs and Links) 97c MEN’S DEPT. STREET FLOOR BELK BROS. CO.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
