THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 6, 1935

Davidson Group Starts New “Y” Deputation Of Five Organize YMCA At Junior College And High School

A deputation of five was sent to the Ebenezer Mitchell Junior College and High School, Misenheimer, N. C., Friday, March 1, for the purpose of establishing a Y. M. C. A. there. The deputation consisted of Don Brandon, A. B. McClure, Harold Ostwalt, Pete Neill, and Ben Rose. The deputation left Davidson Friday afternoon and arrived at Misenheimer at six o'clock. That evening they met with the forty boys who are students there and held a service. The meeting was opened with scripture by Ben Rose and prayer by Ostwalt and Neill. A talk was given by Brandon on the “Purpose of Y. M. C. A. on the College Campus,” which was followed by a brief open discussion on the possibility of establishing a “Y” at the school. The meeting was closed with the election of officers for the new “Y.”

The deputation had charge of the chapel services of the school the next morning. The services were conducted by Ben Rose, assisted by the others. The rest of the morning was spent in conference with the newly-elected officers and their faculty advisors and in the selection of the “Y” cabinet members for the six departments necessary in campus life.

This school was established in memory of Ebenezer Mitchell at Lenoir, N. C., and was later moved to Misenheimer, N. C., twenty miles from Salisbury on the Albemarle highway. It is a denominational school of the Methodist Episcopal Church. The school has recently received a donation of two hundred thousand dollars with which it plans to build several new buildings. The administration hopes to finish the work of building the five new dormitories by fall. This will enable the school to accommodate four hundred students while it now accommodates only one hundred and fifty boys and girls. This school is a mission school and has been doing fine work and the new dormitories will aid it further.

“Run tt...”

AT THE LOCAL THEATRE

Wednesday, March 6
THE GAY DIVORCEE
This is a very entertaining musical starring Ginger Rogers and Fred Astaire. Alice Brady and Edward Everett Horton furnish the comedy. Ginger Rogers and Fred Astaire give several novel dance numbers. This picture gives us several of the popular tunes, including “The Continental.”

Thursday, March 7
THE RIGHT TO LIVE
This picture is about the life of a crippled aviator (Colin Clive), his pretty young wife (Josephine Hutchinson), the flyer’s younger brother (George Brent), and the events that are bound to occur when the latter arrives on the scene trying to help the other two.

Friday, March 8
ONE MORE SPRING
This picture deals with the struggles of three depression victims—a furniture salesman (Warner Baxter), an actress (Janet Gaynor), and a violinist. Instead of accepting charity, they set up a shop in a Central Park tool-shed and abide by the Golden Rule. Events occur that finally put them all back on their feet.

Saturday, March 9
KENTUCKY KERNELS
This is another Wheeler and Woolsey comedy and is reported to equal their others. This picture is a laugh for everybody when those two famous comedians impersonate the old traditional Kentucky Colonel of the Blue Grass State. They are at their funniest in this colossal witty production.

Monday and Tuesday, March 11 and 12
CLIVE OF INDIA
This is another colorful and spectacular historical picture dealing with the making of India. Ronald Colman plays the lead and is supported by Loretta Young. This historical production views the conditions of India and has a cast that is of the highest order.

Symphonic Band Presents Concert Musicians Leave School On Three-Day Concert Tour Of North Carolina

Inaugurating a series of concerts which will take them on a tour throughout the state, the Davidson College Symphonic Band played an hour-and-a-half concert before a rapt audience of approximately six hundred students and friends of the college in Chambers Auditorium last Friday night. The program featured Louise Nelson Pfohl, wife of the conductor, and A. Moreland Cunningham, as soloists on the piano and cornet, respectively.

The opening number was a brilliant concert march by Olivadoti, “Triumphant,” which carried a pleasing martial air, but at the same time was not out of place on the concert stage. This was followed by a rendition of the familiar and stirring “Overture to William Tell,” its four divisions covering most of the tempos of good music. Its wide range of tone effects, secured by the use of approximately twenty different instruments, makes the band especially suited to playing pieces of this kind.

A. Moreland Cunningham played a difficult cornet solo entitled “Echoes,” by Simon. Following this, the audience was so appreciative at the conclusion of this selection that the talented young cornetist responded by playing as an encore “The Rosary,” by Nevin, which was quite as well received as his first rendition. So great was the applause by the appreciative audience.

After these two solos, the band turned to music in a more modern and lighter vein.vein, playing “Selections from Show Boat,” that Jerome Kern musical hit of a few years ago. These selections included “Old Man River,” “Captain Andy,” “I Can't Help Lovin’ Dat Man,” “Make Believe,” and the waltz, “You Are Love.” Effects of great color were obtained throughout this number, one of them being the authentic sound of a steamboat of the old Mississippi type, produced on a large wooden whistle. At the conclusion of this selection, Dr. P. H. Gwynn, in a few well-chosen (Continued on Page 6, Col. 4)

When strangers meet to break the ice
You like me best because I am so mellow, rich, and flavorful. She chooses me in preference to other cigarettes for another reason; because I am so mild and easy on her throat. But you both prefer me because I am made exclusively from fragrant, expensive center leaves. That’s why I’m milder. That’s why I taste better. No top leaves, unripe and stinging; no bottom leaves, coarse and sandy, are permitted to destroy my uniform mildness and good taste. I’m your best friend. I am your Lucky Strike.

CENTER LEAVES THE MILDEST SMOKE

Around Town

The Music Club held its regular meeting Tuesday evening in the Civic Hall, with Mrs. Price Gwynn presiding. Mrs. W. B. Elamrick was in charge of the program, which consisted of Italian and Spanish folk music.

Mrs. Harriet Sample, an old resident of Davidson, celebrated her eighty-third birthday Sunday, February 24, when she entertained at a family dinner. The following Monday afternoon, she entertained a few of her friends at a birthday tea.

The Thelemite Club was entertained Friday afternoon in its regular meeting at the home of Mrs. J. P. Williams. Mrs. J. M. McConnell gave a paper on the Renaissance.

Dr. J. J. Withers was host to the Eat-A-Bita-Pie Club of Davidson on Thursday night at seven o'clock.

The Book-Lovers Club held its regular meeting Friday afternoon, with Mrs. T. W. Lingle as hostess. The program was in charge of Miss Maude Vinson, who gave an interesting talk on “The Seine, the Artery of Paris.” In the business meeting, the following officers were elected: Mrs. W. P. Cumming, president; Mrs. Frazer Hood, vice president; Mrs. J. R. Withers, secretary and treasurer. After the report of the program committee, the Club voted to study “The Great Periods of American and European Poetry” next year. The program committee consists of: Mrs. E. F. Shewmake, chairman; Mrs. W. P. Cumming and Mrs. Thomas Hamilton.

Davidson College was represented at the inauguration of Cary Adams as president of Presbyterian Junior College at Maxton, Thursday, by the Rev. J. Richards. He was accompanied by his daughter, Miss Mary Richards.

Miss Mary Dixon, of Morganton, is a guest in the home of Dr. and Mrs. Walter Lingle.

Mrs. Thomas Hamilton had as her guests over the weekend Rev. Stone Hamilton, of Roxboro; Miss Mary Hamilton, of Mebane; Miss Lois Hamilton, and Prof. and Mrs. Elford Morgan, of Spartanburg.

Leroy Blackwelder has recently been elected captain of the 1936 Wildcat wrestling team, and Phifer Erwin was selected manager of the next season's team. Blackwelder is a junior this year and succeeds Charles Fort as captain. Erwin also is a junior this year and takes over Mae Porter's duties as business manager for the team. Both of the newly-elected men live in the town of Davidson.

The Twentieth Century Club held its open meeting Thursday night, at the home of Prof. and Mrs. O. J. Thies. After a program of stunts, refreshments were served by the hostesses, Mrs. O. J. Thies, Mrs. F. W. Hengeveld, Mrs. Nelson Mebane, and Mrs. Harry Caldwell. Prof. and Mrs. A. T. Clifford and Mrs. S. S. Minault were guests.

The Tuesday Club met February 25 at the home of Miss Louise Lingle. Mrs. J. S. McIver was an out-of-town guest. Mrs. J. I. McIver, of Bristol, Va., who has been a guest in the home of her son, Coach Eugene McIver, left for her home Monday. While here she was the guest at several social functions.

Mrs. Mattie Burwell Murphy, who has spent the past week with relatives in Fayetteville, returned to Davidson Saturday.

NO SHORT-CUTS IN HANES SHORTS!

Hanes cuts their shorts to the size the label says. They're big enough to let you bend and reach without any gripping or ripping!

POPULAR PRICES LONG WEAR SERVICE

HANES Shirts, Shorts, Union-Suits for Men and Boys

P. H. HANES KNITTING COMPANY WINSTON-SALEM

Copyright 1935, The American Tobacco Company