THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 20, 1935

Dr. A. E. Speer Ott’s Lecturer Selects ‘What Christ Means To Me’ As Theme Of Talks

BEGIN DECEMBER 1ST
Life, Death, Resurrection, Lordship Are Subdivisions

Dr. Robert E. Speer will deliver the Otts’ Foundation lectures during the first week in December, using as his general subject, “What Christ Means to Me.” The series will begin at the vesper service, Sunday, December 1, when Dr. Speer will talk on “What the Earthly Life of Christ Means to Me.” He will again address the student body during chapel on Monday; his topic will be “What the Death of Christ Means to Me.” The third in this series of lectures, to be at the hour Tuesday, will have as its subject, “What the Resurrection of Christ Means to Me.” Dr. Speer will conclude the Otts’ Foundation lectures with an address on “What the Lordship of Christ Means to Me.” This will be delivered in chapel on Wednesday.

Dr. Speer has been secretary of the Presbyterian Board of Foreign Missions since 1891. He graduated from Princeton University, where he took an active part in athletics. He received his M.A. from Yale, his D.D. from the University of Edinburgh, and his LL.D. from Rutgers University. In 1927 Dr. Speer was Moderator of the Presbyterian Church of the United States. He is also an ex-president of the Federal Council of Churches of America.

These lectures were made possible by the foundation established by Rev. J. M. Otts. The founder himself delivered the first series of lectures, and since that time a number of prominent Christians have continued the addresses. Dr. Speer follows the original purpose of the lectures by presenting to the students some side of Christianity.

Dr. Walter Lingle Delivers Lectures
College Head Talks At Sunday School Meeting

Dr. Walter Lingle speaks at 7:30 tonight and again tomorrow night at the same hour to conclude the series of lectures he has been delivering at the Presbyterian Sunday School Teachers’ Conference in Mooresville. He began the series on Sunday afternoon and has spoken each night since then on the general subject of “Learning to Teach from the Master Teacher.”

On Sunday afternoon, December 8th, Dr. Lingle and the Davidson College Band will have parts in the program celebrating the 400th anniversary of the publication of the English Bible. The band will play half an hour of sacred music at the opening of the meeting, and Dr. Lingle will deliver the main address. Although he has not chosen his subject yet, he says that it will be on some phase of the English Bible. December 8th is Universal Bible Sunday, and all denominations in Charlotte will combine in this program. It will be held at the Armory-Auditorium and several thousand are expected.

Dr. Lingle has also been requested to deliver the annual lecture on the MacCartney Foundation, the meeting to be held in the Arch Street Presbyterian Church in Philadelphia on January 28th. This is a very large meeting and some of the best speakers in the country are selected to conduct it.

A future Sam Johnson at the University of Michigan develops a few word definitions:
Honesty — fear of being caught.
Truth — lack of tact.
Courage — combination of stubbornness and resignation.
Love — one half memory; one half imagination.
Pleasure — one half biology; one half anticipation.
Moron — one who is content with a serene mind.

Devoted His Fortune to Education
Andrew Carnegie accumulated one of the world’s largest fortunes during the first part of his life and succeeded in giving most of it away during the last part, so that he died a comparatively poor man. Carnegie and the Carnegie Corporation of New York, which he established in 1911 to continue his benefactions, have devoted approximately $80,000,000 to colleges and universities. More than 200 American educational institutions shared in this distribution. In addition, Carnegie spent more than $60,000,000 in library construction work. Many of his other grants were for popular education and scientific research.

Andrew Carnegie was born November 25, 1835, in Dunfermline, Scotland. The centenary of his birth will be observed in the United States and abroad November 25, 26, and 27.

Andrew Carnegie’s Birth Centennial To Be Observed

Davidson will join with many colleges and universities of the United States which benefited from grants by Andrew Carnegie, in the observance of November 25 of Carnegie’s birthday centenary. A large portrait of Carnegie, which was presented to the Davidson College library by the Carnegie Corporation, will be hung at that time in commemoration of the one-hundredth anniversary of the birth of the famous philanthropist. Simultaneously, the occasion will be shown in exhibit cases in the library. Carnegie donated $20,000 to the college library, the cost of the present building, in 1910. An additional gift of $15,000 was made in 1931 for the purchase of new books.

Carnegie’s grants to educational institutions have aggregated approximately $80,000,000, in addition to his public library expenditures, which were in excess of $60,000,000. Prior to the organization in 1911 of the Carnegie Corporation of New York, to continue his benefactions, he gave approximately $15,000,000 to American colleges and universities, and created a $10,000,000 trust fund for Scottish universities. Between 1911 and 1932, the Carnegie Corporation of New York appropriated $48,000,000 to educational institutions in the United States. Of this sum, $23,000,000 went to the Carnegie Institute of Technology, at Pittsburgh, Pa., and $25,000,000 was distributed among 212 American colleges and universities.

From the income of the British Dominions and Colonies Fund, the Carnegie Corporation has appropriated an additional $5,769,000 for universities of the British Dominions and Colonies. In the instances of the college appropriations, the money was used for endowment, buildings, and various projects in the fields of art and the library. Most of the college buildings donated by Mr. Carnegie were for library and scientific work. Of the $350,000,000 Andrew Carnegie gave away during his lifetime, by far the largest part was devoted to education and scientific research.

Carnegie’s interest in education is shown by the following statement, which with other quotations from his writings are being displayed during the centenary observances by Carnegie libraries: “A man who is content with a serene mind.”

(Continued on Page 6)

WHITE DRUG CO.
Soda Fountain
Stationery
Candies
Prescriptions Filled By Efficient and Experienced Pharmacists

Second Issue Of Yowl To Be Holiday Number

The next issue of THE YOWL will appear before Sophomore week-end, the theme of this issue being the Christmas Holidays. The holiday number will contain articles by Gib Smith, Harold Sugg, Dick Vowles, and Bob Johnston, poetry by Treadway Purnell, cartoons by Hal Overton, Sam Ryburn, and Dick Vowles, and some original jokes by members of the staff. The Art Editor, Hal Overton, requests that all freshmen with talent for drawing please see him about working on the Yowl.

Many Students Rally At Lively Pep Meeting

On Thursday night, a goodly number of students gathered round at old Shearer to engage in a “pep” meeting preparatory to the V. M. I. game. Joe Dees, his cohorts, and the Band were on hand as usual to lead the proceedings. The attendance was notably in the freshman number, seeming to be in a more merry mood than usual. That is, the assembly was more inclined to loosen up and let fly. The master of ceremonies recounted vividly the historic experience of “Tubby” Hand. It seems that this individual is in the habit of gathering up V. M. I. fumbles and conveying them across the goal line of that institution. Soon the party became boisterous. Old Shearer began to lose the dignity acquired through many august conclaves, as aged pewsGood Master, We Appreciate Your Patronage

SOUTHERN 506 STORE

Among the Greeks

BETA THETA PI: A feed, given on Sunday night, was very well attended. Brothers Tom Ross, Charles Malone, Bill Hobbs, and Bill Coffin went to Durham for the Duke-Carolina game Saturday.

PI KAPPA ALPHA: Brothers Milton Crisp, Charlie Hamrick, and “Sky” Cline spent the weekend in Concord. Bill Archer and Walter Dickson went to Salisbury. Brothers Bob Anders and Ken Knorr attended the Duke-Carolina game.

KAPPA ALPHA: Brothers Tom Downie, George Cowan, Bill Harris, Horace Lutz, Dick Taylor, and Chas. Hines went to the Duke-Carolina game. Reg. Harris, Harvey McConnell, and Banks Gladden saw the Davidson-V.M.I. game in Lexington. Brother Graham visited in Goldsboro.

PI KAPPA ALPHA: Brothers Herb Willis and “Salty” Peters journeyed to Rock Hill to attend a dance. Brothers Henson, Maples, and Parker, and Pledges Burgess, Hunt, and Little spent the weekend at home. Brother Ralph Chandler’s parents, Mr. and Mrs. R. L. Chandler, and Mr. and Mrs. R. S. DuRant of Southern Pines, visited the chapter on Sunday. The regular feed was held Sunday night.

SIGMA ALPHA EPSILON: Brother Robinson went to his home in Columbia, S.C. for the weekend. The following went to Durham for the game: Brothers Tom Marchant, Buddy Newton, Perry Sloan, Neil Whitlock, Max Brittain, Yates Faison, and Pete Marchant. Brother Mickley spent the weekend with his family in Charlotte. Brothers Nicholson, Eve, and Williams went to the dance in Rock Hill. Brothers Fryfogle and Mathis went to the automobile races in Charlotte.

KAPPA SIGMA: Had a feed Sunday night, after which there was a song-fest. Brothers Howell, Wyatt, Hill, Norfleet, and Stevens went to Durham for the weekend. The chapter is looking forward to the arrival of a new radio which has been ordered.

PHI GAMMA DELTA: Cokey Branton took a number of his friends, including JoJo McNabb, Bill Taber, Fred Stair, and “Yankey” Dooley, on a tour of Tennessee during which they saw Tennessee get licked by Vanderbilt, and, among other ill-gotten luxuries, took in several high-class dance bands that have made application to play for the Davidson Midwinters. Elmore Holt spent the weekend with his family, while Arthur Bren stayed on the campus for a change. Bill Keisewetter got wetter and wetter at the Duke-Carolina game. Brother Sugg frolicked mightily over a piece of chewing gum Saturday night.

PHI DELTA THETA: Jimmy West and all went to Durham for the game. Brothers Johnny Allen, Jack Branch, Ralph McClelland, and Dan Griffin saw the Davidson-V.M.I. game. The regular Sunday night feed was held and enjoyed by all present.

Dr. Cumming’s Hobbies Are Disclosed

DR. T. W. LINGLE ADDRESSES A.C.

History Professor Speaks at Converse and Washington and Lee

Dr. T. W. Lingle visited Converse College last Thursday, November 19, where, at the convocation hour, he addressed the students and faculty under the auspices of the International Relations Club. Making Poland his main topic, he pointed out the different situations, both political and social, that were to be, and are, found there. The purpose of these talks under the direction of the I.R.C. is for more to know and to have a better understanding of other peoples, tending to go toward the motive of disarmament among the nations. Dr. Lingle described some of his own experiences in Poland. He pointed out that on the whole most foreign countries are much more friendly among themselves, and to foreigners especially, than are the Americans.

On Thursday, November 14, Dr. Lingle went to Lexington, Virginia, where he and Mrs. Lingle conducted a round table discussion at Washington and Lee University on national and international problems. This trip also was sponsored by the I.R.C. Two hundred and fifty persons attended the meeting, which was followed by a supper in honor of the Lingles given by the faculty members. In the discussion group many questions of present-day importance were brought out. Among those of interest were: the issue between Mussolini and Ethiopia, nations' preparation for war, the attitude of Europe towards our country—do they want to come? and many others.

The International Relations Club, which has a chapter at Davidson, is a nationwide student organization. Tom Downie, of this year’s chapter, succeeded Charles Lucas. Last year the local chapter was host to all the chapters here at a national convention.

Hector Mortimer told the Neurological Biochemist American Association recently that our skulls get denser as we age. Quality and service are built into prices.

By FITZ-HUGH DADE

In pursuit of the eternal quest, the author visited another of our faculty members last week. Herewith the gleanings from the hobbies of Dr. W. P. Cumming, who, in case there are some who don’t know him, is a professor of higher English. It seemed to me that his study was a harking-back to some ancient hermit’s cell, yet not entirely of one tone, for the large desk and the multitude of books around the walls bespoke one in no way cut off from the world of affairs. On the mantle and all around the room were objects of ancient vintage and querulous voices. After giving the chair the once-over, the doctor obligingly “fed the fishes” for the advancement of journalism. He calls himself a collector of objets d'art (bric-a-brac to you), although we would prefer to call him a man of many hobbies.

One of these that left a vivid impression was his clocks. You must know that there were three maestros of the clockmaker's art in early times; these were Seth Thomas, Eli Terry, and Jerome. There is some of the latter’s handiwork ticking away opposite the desk in the study; but a Seth Thomas job, also hoary with age, unfortunately was left where the youngest member of the family could wrestle with it. In this match, Seth Thomas went down for the count and is still out of commission. One in the living room illustrates how completely the horology bug has the doctor, in that he went so far as to make a face for the clock himself, since when bought it had only its insides.

As regards his books, in which he probably takes more interest, I think he is proud of the fact that there is an order and arrangement quite different from the famed “dark room” of his good friend Lilly. (And of the “dark room” we shall hear more at some later date.)

REMEMBER - You Always Save at Belk Brothers.

Suits “Backed” With High Fashion! $22.45

Sports backs... first in the estimation of the smartly-dressed man of today! Yokes, inverted pleats, panels... wrought from enticing worsteds, twists, or Highland Spun fabrics!

Topcoats With Half-Belted Back $19.45

Although the topcoats in this group sell at a very popular price, the style features and lines are just as smart as you could desire. We present them in new fleeces, checks, and plain-color fabrics.

MEN’S CLOTHING | STREET FLOOR

Belk Bros. Co. CHARLOTTE, N.C.