OMICRON DELTA KAPPA HOLDS ANNUAL SPRING TAP DAY

The Davidsonian

Vol. XXII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., MAY 1, 1935 No. 26

O. D. K. EXTENDS MEMBERSHIP TO SIXTEEN MEN

TREADWAY PURNELL CHOSEN FOR JUDGE COURT OF CONTROL

Spartanburg Student to Guide Destinies of Freshmen for Coming Year

YARBOROUGH RECORDER

Six Other Members of Court are Announced Today

L. T. Purnell, of Spartanburg, S. C., has been named to head the Court of Control for the coming year
according to an announcement received from the Student Council early this evening. The seven other members of the Court were
also made known at this time. Purnell is a member of Kappa Sigma, the sophomore honor society, social fraternity, and
of Beaver Club. During his three years on the campus, he has been actively connected with the work of the
publications board, serving as managing editor of the Yow! and assistant editor of Quips and Cranks. He is also a
member of the “Y" Cabinet and the Red and Black Masquers, a local dramatic organization.

B. R. Yarborough, of Kannapolis, will serve as recorder. Yarborough, a member of the varsity football squad, will also act
as secretary-treasurer of the Athletic Association next year. He belongs to Kappa Alpha, a social fraternity. Hayworth, of High Point,
a member of Phi Gamma Delta, will be the '35-'36 “slave-driver.” His duties will include supervision of erecting bleachers and
other freshman activities. J. B. Johnston, Jr., of Barium Springs, Kappa Alpha, is the fourth senior member of the court.
H. R. Clark, Jr., Alpha Epsilon, and H. H. Overton, Jr., Phi Gamma Delta, of Greensboro, and F. W. Dennis
of Concord, Kappa Alpha, and L. G. Reid, Winston-Salem, Phi Gamma Delta, are to be the sophomore jurists.

The Court of Control was established at Davidson some fifteen years ago to supplant hazing as a means of freshman
discipline. Since its existence, hazing has almost entirely disappeared from the college campus, and there has been a noticeable improvement
in the relationships between freshmen and upperclassmen on the hill. Selected each spring by the senior members of the Student
Council, the Court is vested with the power to “hear, investigate, and deal with the charges of upperclassmen against freshmen
for improper conduct, such as jibing, violating freshman regulations, or breaking college traditions.” The officers, chosen from the eight members
of the Court, are: First, the Judge, whose duty it is to preside, maintain order, and ensure that each case
is given fair and careful consideration. Second, a Recorder, who must “keep an accurate record of all proceedings of the
Court.” Third, one prosecuting and one defending attorney, appointed by the Judge. These shall be appointed far enough in advance
to make a thorough investigation of both sides of the case. The Court meets in regular session once a month,
and the Judge may call special meetings whenever the occasion demands. It has the power to confine to campus any
freshman found guilty of an offense not serious enough to warrant his suspension from college. Any offenses which the Court
deems serious enough to warrant dismissal from college are referred to the Student Council. The Council retains the right to
review all proceedings of the Court, and any freshman found guilty by the Court may appeal to it.

Hoke Robinson Chosen Manager Of Handbook

Hoke Robinson, a member of the Sophomore class, was chosen as the Business Manager of the Wildcat Handbook last Monday.
Robinson has chosen as his assistants, Yates Faison and Lawrence Reid. He is planning to choose one other freshman, but
this had not been done at the time that The Davidsonian went to press. Robinson is from Columbia, S. C.,
and a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity. He is also an assistant Business Manager of The Davidsonian. Faison
is from Charlotte, and a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity. Reid is from Winston-Salem, and is a member
of Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity.

BRANTON HEADS PAN-HELLENICS

Charlie Thompson, Lexington, Elected Secretary-Treasurer of Frat Council

In its first meeting, the newly-elected Pan-Hellenic Council elected “Cokey” Branton president and Charlie Thompson secretary-treasurer. The personnel of the
council includes the following representatives: Beta Theta Pi, Bill Coffin; Sigma Alpha Epsilon, Tom Marchant; John Partridge; Wiley Bradley; Archer;
Phi Delta Theta, Sigma Phi Epsilon, Pi Kappa Alpha, Bill Kappa Phi, John Willis; Kappa Alpha, Reg Harris; Kappa Sigma,
Charlie Thompson, and Phi Gamma Delta, Cokey Branton.

Branton is from Greenville, Miss. He is a junior baseball manager; he was runner-up for the presidency of the senior
class in the recent elections. He is a member of the Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity. Thompson is from Lexington.
He was a freshman and sophomore football manager, a managing editor of the Wildcat Handbook, and managing editor of the
annual. He is a member of Kappa Sigma social fraternity. Officers of the retiring Council were Mims Rogers, of Florence,
Ala., president; and Hugh Yelverton, secretary-treasurer. The following other men were members of the retiring Council: Beta Theta Pi, Bill
Atwater; Sigma Alpha Epsilon, Joe Wadsworth; Pi Kappa Alpha, Charlie Harris; Kappa Alpha, Fred McPhail; Kappa Sigma, Billy Ravenel; Phi
Delta Theta, Douglas Glasgow; and Sigma Phi Epsilon, Teal Rogers.

Varsity Debaters Close Good Season

Harold Sugg and Albert Stutts closed the debating season of the year with a non-decision debate with Washington and Jefferson
College in the Eumenean Literary Society Hall last Thursday night. Debaters Sugg and Stutts thus concluded a very successful season
for the debating team, taking the affirmative of the question: “Resolved, that the Nations should agree to prevent the international
shipment of arms and munitions.” The men representing Washington and Jefferson College took the negative side of the question. This
was the last debate on their schedule while making a southern tour of prominent colleges and universities of this section.
Stutts closed a two-year career as varsity debater, having gone on a very successful western trip last year with Robert
Smith. He is a member of Alpha Phi Epsilon and an assistant in the library. Smith and Sugg defeated the
crack team from Emory University on Friday, April 19.

PHI BETA KAPPA SECRETARY VISITS DAVIDSON

Eight Students and One Alumnus To Be Initiated Tomorrow Night

DINNER ON THE PROGRAM

Dr. Shimer Will Be Featured Speaker of Ceremony

Dr. W. A. Shimer, noted educator and National Secretary of Phi Beta Kappa, will visit Davidson College for the initiation
of those students who received bids to Phi Beta Kappa, national honorary scholastic fraternity. The students who will be initiated
tomorrow night are: T. Donald Miller, II, Gordon R. Wood, Dudley B. Elvery, R. M. Porter, Jr., R. L. Orr,
C. S. McCall, Jr., Courtney B. Ross, and G. L. Gullette. Dr. Shimer, who is now a noted educator, was
born in Freed, W. Va., May 17, 1894, and graduated from West Virginia Teachers College, Glenville, in 1914. He received
his A.B. at Harvard in 1918 and A.M. and Ph.D. in 1925 from the same school. Also an A.M. from
University of Rochester in 1922 and a Harvard fellowship to the University of Paris in 1925 and 1926. He began
his career as a teacher in a West Virginia rural school in 1910. He was secretary of the Student “Y”
at Rochester from 1919 to 1922 and secretary of the Harvard Graduate Schools Society from 1923 to 1925. Next, he
was instructor of philosophy at Ohio State University from 1926 to 1929 and general secretary of the Foundation for Moral
Leadership in New York from 1930 to 1932. He was also president of philosophy and psychology of Ohio College Association
from 1927 to 1930 and assistant secretary of United Chapter Phi Beta Kappa from 1930 to 1931, and secretary since
1931.

Preceding the initiation of the students receiving bids will be an informal dinner at the home of Dr. Gwynn in
honor of Dr. Shimer which will be attended by all undergraduate members and initiates as well as by the following
officers: President, Prof. A. Currie, vice-president, F. L. Jackson, secretary and treasurer, Dr. P. H. Gwynn, Jr. The program for
the evening will be a formal dinner and an address by Dr. Shimer and initiation of students in Chambers faculty
room. Dr. Shimer is making an extensive tour of the South at present, visiting the different colleges that now have
chapters of Phi Beta Kappa and also those seeking chapters. Among those are Winthrop and Wofford Colleges.

T. D. Miller is from Mooresville, and is a member of the Spanish Club. G. R. Wood is from South
Charleston, W. Va. He is the secretary of Sigma Upsilon, head of the Red and Black Masquers, and also a
member of Delta Phi Alpha. Wood is one of the few students in college taking the honors work in English.
D. B. Elvery is from Tampa, Fla. He is a member of the varsity tennis team and the D Club.
He is an S.P.E., as is R. M. Porter, from Waycross, Ga. Porter is a member of Scabbard and Blade,
and senior manager of the wrestling team. C. S. McCall, who is from Bennettsville, S. C., is a member of
S.P.E., and of Gamma Sigma Epsilon. Another S.P.E. is R. L. Orr from Byhalia, Miss., who is varsity baseball manager.
C. B. Ross, from Polkton, is a member of Eta Sigma Phi, a member of the varsity basketball team, and
of the D Club.

DAVIDSON ROTC UNIT INSPECTED BY CAPT. BRAND

Capt. Seifert Proclaims Battalion Inspection To Be Decided Success

SHOWING IS COMMENDED

Weapon Demonstration and Guard Mounting Planned

The annual government inspection of the R.O.T.C. unit held last Friday, April 26, was pronounced a success by Captain Seifert,
though he is unable, for the time being, to give any indication of the official report which will be made
concerning the work accomplished. Captain Brand, representative from the Fourth Corps Area headquarters in Atlanta, seemed favorably impressed with what
he saw, and especially was he pleased with the grades made on the various examinations he gave. The averages on
these examinations areobtained on a basis proportionate to the number of hours spent on each subject, so that the harder
subjects, which are taken up more fully, count for more than the easier ones. The battalion formed for roll call
at 2:10. Following this, the companies moved to the stadium, where calisthenics were directed by Cadet Lieutenant-Colonel Potter. Then there
was an alternate parade, after which the battalion was inspected. Particular praise has been heard for the neat appearance of
Company Corporals Dick Johnson and Stuart Barnes. They then directed their squads in short drills. Corporal Johnson explained the command
"Squad Right—March, Squad Halt," and had his seven men execute the movement. Corporal Barnes’ squad was told how to execute
"As Skirmishers—March, Assemble—March," and then demonstrated it. Then Sergeant Lamont Brown, of Company “D," explained and had his section execute
"Section Column—March; Line Of Squad Columns—March; Assemble—March." These three non-commissioned officers were especially commended for the way in which they
performed their assigned duties.

There were demonstrations by Companies “B" and “C,” the first in the form of a platoon commanded by Cadet Lieutenant
Sutton, the second in the form of a company under the command of Cadet Captain Fort, of close order drill.
Then Cadet Lieutenant Wood, of Company “C,” gave a practical demonstration of a platoon in a tactical exercise, this taking
place on the golf course. Starting about Gray's road, the demonstration covered a formation for an advance guard, and the
action of the platoon in the attack.

A schedule of events of special interest for the month of May has recently been released by the R.O.T.C. department,
the main features of which are as follows: A demonstration of firing of the automatic rifle, machine gun, and trench
mortar, at the intersection of Gray’s road with the golf course, to be held at 3:10 p.m. May 1st. A
formal guard mount to be held on May 6th at 3:10 p.m. on the freshman field, four companies participating. Company
competitive drill for cup and streamers on the drill field on May 13th. The last parade of the battalion for
the school year will be held at the stadium on May 15th, at which there will be a presentation of
the cup to the commander of the company winning the competitive drill; a presentation of commissions to senior officers; and
a presentation of a medal to the outstanding R.O.T.C. student by the Reserve Officers’ Association of Charlotte.

Final Edition of Alumni Journal Goes To Press

The next edition of the Alumni Journal, which goes to press tomorrow, will be published about May 20. This is
to be the commencement issue and will feature stories on the plans and programs for Commencement. Another feature of the
issue will be a survey of Founders’ Day, including write-ups of the meetings of those Alumni chapters who met at
that time. At commencement, the Alumni will vote as to whether or not the publication of the Journal will continue.
Last year it was decided that it be published for one year as an experiment. At the Alumni meetings held
on Founders’ Day, it was unanimously agreed to continue this publication. This will be the fifth edition of the Alumni
Journal and the final one to be published this year. It will have twenty pages like the last issue, instead
of the usual twenty-four.

Fourteen Students, Spanish Teacher and J. P. Grey, Bristol, Va., Accept Today

CELEBRATE ANNIVERSARY

Seven Seniors and Seven Juniors Tapped This Morning

Delta Circle of Omicron Delta Kappa, national leadership fraternity founded at Washington & Lee in 1914, celebrated its twentieth anniversary
on the Davidson Campus at its Spring tap-day exercises this morning in Chambers Auditorium by extending membership to fourteen students,
one professor, and one alumnus of the institution. The local Circle was established here in the Spring of 1915 and
is fourth in rank. Of the fourteen students, seven were seniors and seven were juniors. Professor F. K. Fleagle of
the Spanish Language and Literature Department was the faculty member to be so honored, and Captain J. P. Grey of
Bristol, Va., was the alumnus. The seniors tapped were Duke Glasgow, Charlotte; Charles Harris, Welch, W. Va.; John Newton, Gainesville,
Ga.; James Morgan, Albemarle; William Ravenel, Charleston, S.C.; James Simpson, Athens, Ga.; Joe Wadsworth, Durham. The juniors include Lamont Brown,
Barium Springs; Carlton Chapman, Talladega, Ala.; Harvey Glass, Richmond, Va.; Martin Barnett, Meridian, Miss.; Henry Cathey, Charlotte; Robert Lindsay, Winston-Salem;
and Cole Windham, Gastonia.

The tapping ceremony, Omicron Delta Kappa’s distinctive way of bidding new members, was held during the regular chapel period. Student
and faculty members of the honorary fraternity were seated on the rostrum. The newly chosen men, unaware of their election,
were seated in their seats in the auditorium. After the devotional, the exercises proper were opened by the rap of
President Brown's gavel on the altar, at which time a number of members went into the audience and bidded the
selected men by tapping them on the back. Acceptance was signified by following the member back to the rostrum where
the pledge ritual was administered by President G. H. Brown and A. J. Potter. This procedure was followed until all
the newly elected men had been bidded. All the new men were present except J. P. Grey, distance making it
impossible for him to be in attendance. At the time this went to press, the speaker for the occasion was
not known.

Membership in Omicron Delta Kappa is “in conferred recognition of conspicuous attainment and service in collegiate activities,” and in the
case of alumni, for their conspicuous progress and attainment in their chosen fields in the business and professional realm. Professor
Fleagle has served on the Davidson College faculty for a number of years and is the head of the Spanish
Language department. For the past several years he has had charge of the summer school sessions which are held for
six weeks during the vacation period. This year he has supervised FERA work on the Campus and in doing so
has created and provided many jobs for deserving students.

Duke Glasgow has for three years been a member of the Student Council. He has also participated in track during
all four years and this year was elected captain of the varsity, succeeding Fred McPhail who had to withdraw on
account of an operation earlier in the season. He is a member of the Y.M.C.A. Cabinet and Pan Hellenic representative
for Phi Delta Theta.

Harris has been very active in athletics during his four years at Davidson besides holding a number of class offices.
He has made varsity letters for three years in basketball and baseball and his junior year was captain of the
basketball team. He was secretary and treasurer of his class his junior year and this year is vice-president of the
senior class. Harris is also Pan Hellenic representative for Pi Kappa Alpha.

Morgan is one of the few three-letter men on the Campus. For three years he has made varsity letters in
football, baseball, and basketball. This year he made All-State end in football and has received numerous awards and honors for
his prowess as an athlete. He is a member of Pi Kappa Alpha social fraternity.

Newton transferred here his junior year and has made a good record in athletics in spite of injuries he has
received. This year he is judge of the Court of Control and is a member of Phi Delta Theta fraternity.

Ravenel has made his letter in varsity baseball two years and this year made a letter for service in varsity
football. He has also taken an active part in intramural athletics and is a member of several honorary organizations on
the Campus. He was Pan Hellenic representative for Kappa Sigma fraternity this past year and was business manager of the
varsity basketball team.

Simpson is varsity manager of track this season and is also one of the two business managers of the Student
Store. He is also a member of several honorary organizations and belongs to Phi Delta Theta social fraternity.

Wadsworth was business manager of The Davidsonian this year and last year filled the same position for the Y.M.C.A. Handbook.
In his sophomore year, he was vice-president of his class. This year he was Pan Hellenic representative for Sigma Alpha
Epsilon and a member of Sigma Upsilon and president of Pi Delta Alpha, pre-medical fraternity.

Barnett is class editor-elect of Quips and Cranks and has been conspicuous in publications in the past. This past year
he was a managing editor of The Davidsonian, and for the past two years has been a member of the
varsity tennis squad. Barnett is also a member of Sigma Pi Sigma and Gamma Sigma Epsilon science fraternities and is
a member of Sigma Pi fraternity.

Brown is editor of The Davidsonian for the coming year and has also been elected to the student council. This
year he was secretary and treasurer of the junior class. Brown has been active in all college publications in the
past. He is president of Sigma Alpha Epsilon.

Cathey is president-elect of the Athletic Association for the coming year. He has made a letter in varsity football for
two years and is co-captain of the team for next year. Cathey is a member of Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity.

Chapman is president of the Student Body for the coming year. He has been active in the college musical organizations
in the past. He is president of Phi Delta Theta.

Glass is president of the Y.M.C.A. for the coming year. He has been active in Y.M.C.A. work in the past
and this year was vice-president of that department. He has also been active in publications, being a managing editor of
The Davidsonian and on the staff of Quips and Cranks. Glass has also made a letter in (Continued on Page
6, Col. 4)
