THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 13, 1935 by “Sky” Cline.

HONOR ROLL
McClelland, Beaty, and Hand are Frosh stars chosen.

Sports Afield
HONOR ROLL
Pittman, Lafferty, and Jim Johnston are varsity stars picked by Dan Griffin.

By HARRY KUYKENDALL

“After seeing them play Tennessee—Davidson will be doing well if they keep Duke down to three touchdowns Saturday.” And so “Doc” Newton hit things on the head when he made the above statement prior to the ‘Cats final appearance on Richardson Field this season.

Sending out several reporters to find out who made Davidson's touchdown—Saturday we’ve gotten all kinds of reports. Jake Wade informed Grier Martin that “Chub” Yarborough scored. “Chub's” roommate, Banks Gladden, stated that “Swede” Johnson crossed the last marker. This latter statement we believe, “Swede,” we are just informed, was the one who made the score and we take this occasion to congratulate him, for it was his first game and he scored although playing only for a few minutes.

Jim Johnston, Davidson’s small but formidable guard, certainly filled Dick Johnson's position admirably after the latter suffered a broken nose. We've heard compliments on all sides for the way in which the little guard handled his job. Dick, perhaps the greatest source of confidence to supporters that we have in that “thin red line,” is expected to return to his old position when the "Cats meet the “Flying Squadron” at Lexington.

Although we feel that Davidson’s line should receive the greatest amount of credit, all of them, it also behooves us to mention the work of Tom Corbin and Paul Pittman for they backed up the line and held the score down. Down in the dressing room, Fred Dennis, fullback, stated after the game that “Carolina will beat Duke three touchdowns” while Hunter McClung gave a linesman’s viewpoint by saying that “Duke will beat Carolina” all of which began a heated argument too long to be repeated here.

Henry Cathey, co-Captain, seemed to have been much more impressed with the Dukes, adding that they “hit hard right on into you.” Henry pointed out that Don Jackson of UNC was not near as good as Parker and Alexander. Of Jackson, Cathey said “He’s not a runner. Hackney’s good but he can’t do anything but run.”

Felix, Winchelling again, entered the Duke dressing room but had only gotten safely inside when a huge “paw” descended upon his defenseless shoulder. Somewhat disturbed at this and looking around, it proved to be only “Little Joe” Cardwell, 215-pound 6.3 inches of tackle. Assuming that the gesture was a friendly one, Felix pumped the good-natured giant about who Davidson's best linemen were. After showing a broad grin “Little Joe” acted as though there weren't any but finally he admitted that he knew their faces but not their names. However, after aweing his audience by consuming what appeared to be a whole apple in one gulp, he added “that blonde fellow in your line was good.”

(Continued on Page 6)

DICK JOHNSON GUARD

AMI, SEEKS WIN OVER “Gh”

NOVEMBER

Virginia Mainstays Watch Second String Absorb 56-0 Defeat At U.N.C.

COLEMAN, CONTE STAR
Veterans Hope For Revenge For 1934 Defeat

Davidson Wildcats are practicing hard this week in preparation for a meeting with Virginia Military Institute, at Lexington next Saturday. The cadets are planning a retaliation for Davidson's victories in the past and hope to surprise the Red and Black team. However, the Wildcats are ready to face the attack of the Virginians on Nov. 16.

A team smarting from this season's losses will play. The North Carolina game does not indicate as much weakness in the Cadet players as might be supposed because several V.M.I. men were given a rest. While two guards took positions in the backfield, Robertson and Clark, the regulars, watched the game from the sidelines. The Tar Heel contest does not compare with the Davidson game, for the Carolina squad was conceded an easy win. This week a close scrap is expected.

Campbell, weighing 162 pounds, is a backfield threat, whose work against the Tar Heels was exceptional. He was the life of the Cadet play, as he punted, tackled, and ran with the ball. Farley, regular guard, playing fullback, showed his weight and speed to advantage. Others who faced the Carolina line were Kane, Fielder, Conte, and Coleman.

These veterans from last year are hoping for a reversal of Davidson's 27-13 score a year ago. Captain Hightower at left tackle will be leading the V.M.I. push. Rooker, the 185-pound center, will also be part of the experienced and heavy line. His consistent work has been seconded by two newcomers, Bair and Shomo. Lettermen will compose the team to a great extent, and the Cadets as a result have a club definitely superior to that of 1934. Predictions hold that V.M.I. has better material than Citadel, so it will take Wildcat spirit and tenacity to down the revengeful Cadets.

Basketeers Start Grueling Practice

A large number of men reported to Coach Flake Laird for the initial basketball practice of the season last week. They have been practicing every night, working on fundamentals, chiefly shooting and ball handling. Thus far, no player has been outstanding, but all have been doing very well, considering that they have been in harness for only a week. The schedule is almost complete and will be ready for publication at an early date. As it stands now, the schedule calls for the first game to be played December 17 at Lenoir-Rhyne. However, according to Coach Laird, there will probably be two games arranged previous to that date.

A number of the candidates were members of last year’s squad. These are Gene Clark, Al Cumbie, Mokie Faison, George Hornbeck, and Bill Harris. Several others are playing football and will report as soon as the season is over, Fred Cathey, Ken Knorr, Morris Freeman, Bill Quick, Bailey Williams, and Coley Windham. Graduates from the 1934 Freshman team are Wade Barrow, Sky Cline, Bill Keisewetter, Dan Iverson, and Ellwood Moyer. Four of the men are graduates of junior colleges, notably, W. W. Hancock, W. J. Harper, H. C. Yearwood, and J. B. Armstrong.

The complete basketball schedule for this season has not yet been announced as being complete but several games have been definitely scheduled. Four games with teams near Davidson such as Elon, Charlotte Y.M.C.A., Lenoir-Rhyne and Catawba, will be played before the Christmas holidays. After Christmas the Cagers will take a trip, probably, to Virginia where they will play V.M.I., V.P.I., and the University of Virginia. Another trip will be taken during the season when they will engage games with all the members of the “Big Five” namely: Duke, North Carolina, N.C. State and Wake Forest. These games have been definitely scheduled but as to the dates, they have not been announced as yet.

PIVOT MAN WOODY BURNS - CENTER

Pictured above is Woody Burns, varsity center, who has played a prominent part in the Wildcat line this year. Pass defense and signal calling are his specialties.

Large Number of Students Enter Davidsonian Contest

FRESHMEN WIN CLASS TOURNEY

Freshmen Win Intramurals With Loss Of Single Game; Juniors Second

At the close of the intramural basketball competition, we find that the freshmen have walked away with the championship. The Frosh claimed the basketball crown, winning five games and losing one, scoring a total of twenty points for the intra-competition. The freshmen had as their star players Nesbet Elmore, Jack Lee, Warren Gaw, Locke White, and others. On the whole the freshmen have many good players who should show up well in the coming season.

The Juniors came close to the Frosh, winning four games and losing two, to claim the position of second place in the competitive race. In making second place, the Juniors racked up fifteen points in the intramural competition. Harmon Woodward led the fighting Juniors to their four victories along with Al Cumbie.

The Seniors, led by Bill Bell, managed to get the third place in the race, winning three games and losing three while the poor little sophomores landed in the cellar, losing all six games that they played.

The final score of the intramural competition in basketball is:Freshmen 20 points; Juniors 15; Seniors 10; and the Sophs 5.

First Soccer Game To Be Against High Point

Davidson's first varsity soccer team will open its season on Friday, November 15, with a game against High Point, the contest to take place on the freshmen football field. Soccer is a comparatively new sport at Davidson, although in other colleges in the United States, especially those in the north, it has gradually gained a fairly important place in intercollegiate athletics. A tentative schedule has been arranged, the first game being against High Point this Friday. Later there will be a return game played at High Point. A game has also been scheduled with Clemson on December 7, while efforts are being made to secure games with Furman, on December 5, and with Duke. The squad, under the direction of co-captain Ken Scott and Bill Bell, has been practicing daily.

Charles Elder and Jimmy Westall Win Theatre Tickets For First Week

“Come one, come all.” Free tickets to the show, good for any time at the Davidson Theatre. It’s simple and easy, requiring only a little time and skill in predicting Big Five football games. Each week the SPORTS department of The Davidsonian will print a ballot similar to the one at the bottom of this particular article, containing the games scheduled for the weekend after the appearance of this paper each Wednesday. Those interested must pick the scores and print them in pen, pencil, or type them in the blanks beside each team. Take for example Davidson 13, V. M. I. 0. Only one blank can be handed in per person and it must be in the hands of the Sports Editor by 2 p.m. each Friday. Although the blank is printed below for your convenience, you may duplicate on your own paper. The two persons coming nearest to the real outcome of the games will be given a pass each. In case of ties, the scores will indicate the winner, the prize going to the one picking the closest scores. Last week’s winners were Charles Elder and Jimmy Westall. Gordon Woodward and Dale Jones were runners-up but Carolina played havoc with their as well as everyone else’s. The scores for the three games last week were as follows: Duke 26, Davidson 7. Carolina 56, V. M. I. 0. N. C. State 6, V. P. I. 0. If you didn’t get a ticket last time then it’s highly probable that you'll make it this time. Patience wins—let us have your ballot. The games for this week are as follows:

Davidson ___ V. M. I. ___
N. C. State ___ Richmond ___
Wake Forest ___ Miami ___
Carolina ___ Duke ___

Ten thousand students at a Los Angeles relief school are paid to go to school—and docked if they cut classes!

SPECIAL OFFER

A $2.00 Enlarged Oil Painting for only $5.00 in trade and 9c. Reproduced from your favorite photo, kodak, or penny picture. Call For Your LIFETIME GIFTS Card and See That It Is Punched After Every Purchase.

COLLEGE PHARMACY

The Enlarged Oil Paintings are works of art, Hand Colored in Natural Oil Colors. Guaranteed to Last For Generations.

DAVIDSON WILDCATS FALL TO STRONG OFFENSE OF MIGHTY BLUE DEVILS

DUKE IMPS LICK FRESHMEN 46-0

Spectators Witness Mighty Duke Aerial Circus During Second Quarter

The Wildkittens proved in spite of their overwhelming defeat, that they were a vastly improved eleven since their slaughter at the hands of the N. C. State Frosh. The Kittens won the toss and chose to receive. Brown took the kick-off on his own five-yard line and returned it to his twenty-three. After making a first down in two plays after the kick-off, Brown got seven yards off right tackle and then Beatty rambled off a very nice 15-yard gain through left guard. On the next play, Brown shot a beautiful pass to Iverson, who caught the ball on the 50-yard marker and trying a lateral to Stair, fumbled and the ball was recovered by Wallace, stellar Imp left end. The Duke Frosh then got right down to the business of beating the Kittens. On a sustained “steam-roller” march that was irresistible, the Dukes made their first touchdown. The Imps scored one touchdown in both the first and last quarters. They failed to score in the third but piled up 20 points in the second. The Kittens never threatened during the morning but played stubbornly against the more experienced Imps. The Duke Frosh featured the running of flashy quarterback Gross and the pass combination of Gross to Wallace to mop up with the Kittens. The second quarter gave the spectators an aerial circus that was responsible directly and indirectly for all the markers in that quarter. At the half, Coach Flake Laird verbally polished up the Frosh pass defense and in the third and fourth quarters the Kittens were more successful in stopping the Imp pass attack. Wallace, Duke Frosh left end was responsible for two of his team’s touchdowns. Wallace, Haas, Ayres, Gross, and Petrey were responsible mostly for the defeat of the Davidson Frosh. Beatty, McClelland, Gastiger, and Brown were outstanding for the Kittens.

All-Americans To Play Mooresville’s Bulldogs

The “All Americans” will end their playing season on Saturday, November 23, in a game with the Mooresville Bulldogs. This is an amateur sandlot team composed of ex-college and high school stars. Following this contest, the B team will learn the Wake Forest plays and use them in scrimmaging the varsity. Then the team will disband Thanksgiving. However, there is a slight possibility that they will have another game with the Freshmen sometime near Thanksgiving. The “All Americans” have rendered invaluable service to the varsity by using in scrimmage the plays of the team whom the varsity will meet on the following Saturday. They have been led on the field by Bill Quick, Maurice Peabody, Alex Brown, Tom Thurston, George Mathis, and several others.

Twenty Mount Holyoke College freshmen will be allowed to take only two courses this year under rules set down for a unique educational experiment there. Seniors at the Newark College of Engineering have voted in favor of allowing women to enter their classes.

Don’t Go To CHARLOTTE! Try The SOUTHERN 5c | 10c STORE Anything and Everything

Pittman, Lafferty, and Jim Johnston Star; Liana and Hackney Lead Devils

7,000 WITNESS GAME

Blue Devils Pile Up Twelve First Downs To Wildcats’ Eight

The Davidson Wildcats played daringly and spiritedly before a Homecoming crowd of more than 7,000 people, but the powerful Duke offense proved too much for the fighting Cats and the Devils won 26-7. Davidson opened the game with a successful reverse to Lafferty good for a first down. Then Pittman faked a run around his right end, faded, and threw a long pass to “Teeny” Lafferty down the sidelines. Lafferty caught the pass on a run and seemed to race the remaining distance for a touchdown, but an official called the ball back and put it in play on Duke's 20-yard line. This adverse decision seemed to dishearten the Wildcats, for they lost the ball on downs. In the closing minutes of play, Fred Dennis recovered a fumble on Duke’s 20-yard stripe. “Swede” Johnston then passed to Ed Armfield, and the pass was ruled complete on Duke’s one-foot line. Johnston then went over right guard for Davidson’s lone tally. Elmore “Honey” Hackney and Frank Liana led the Devil attack that netted Wallace Wade's charges a score in each quarter. Hackney exhibited some of the fanciest running seen on Richardson in many a day, while Liana seemed to be in every play all afternoon. For the ’Cats, Jim Johnston, who replaced Dick Johnson when the latter had his nose broken on the opening kick-off, played an outstanding game at guard for the greater part of the game. Captain Cathey, Williams, “Six” Johnston, McClung, and Burns led the linemen, while Paul Pittman, Lafferty, Yarborough, Dennis, Corbin, and Armfield stood out for the backs. Liana, Eakins, Lipscomb, and Hartness led the Blue Devil linesmen, while Hackney, Hudgins, Gardner, Smith, Parker, and Alexander were the leading Duke ground-gainers. Duke showed the vaunted offense that had failed to click against Georgia Tech.

(Continued on Page 6)

PAUL PITTMAN BACK
TOM CORBIN BACK

SCHAFFNER & MARX FINE CLOTHES

See the Outstanding Suit of the Season

THE BLUE RIDGE HOMESPUN $30.00