THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 30, 1935

ATHLETIC HEAD TALK ON RADIO
Captain N. G. Pritchett Discusses the Place of Athletics in Education

Davidson College held its weekly radio program last Friday night at 9 o'clock. The first number was “O Davidson,” played
upon the organ. Donald Pfohl then offered two flute solos, first, “A Rest,” by Catherine, and then “The Idol,” by
Gounod. Mrs. Louise Pfohl was the accompanist in both selections.

The program was announced by Grier Martin, alumni secretary, who then introduced Captain Norton G. Pritchett, director of Physical Education
from Davidson. Captain Pritchett gave the main talk of the evening on “What Is the Place of Athletics in Education?”

Two men were given as examples in his talk. The first, Butch Bullenski, was one who was great and very
outstanding in athletics and a good prize fighter but stupid and slow with his studies. To this young man who
had graduated and was still going on in life the same way, this question was asked: “Do you think athletics
has a place in education?” The answer was: “That’s not a hard nut to crack. Sports taught me more than
all that stuff in class. That’s why the news guys call me the educated fighter.”

The other, Professor Facilicus, was a very learned man who was noted for his work in the eighth dimension. In
reply to the same question, he answered: “There is no more relation between athletics and education than there is between
bull fighting and agriculture.”

Captain Pritchett stated that this is altogether wrong, but that some athletes consider a contest in sports a mere exhibition
ground, while others with the right idea consider it a testing ground for themselves. He ended his speech by stating
that he thought athletics was a basic principle of education.

Following Captain Pritchett’s talk, a new feature was inaugurated into the Davidson program, the news of the Davidson College campus
being given. Each week special events will be announced. One special announcement was the coming of Joseph Brinkman, a famous
pianist, who is to give a program in Chambers Auditorium on Tuesday, February 12th.

The program was concluded by Kenneth Scott's rendition of “Liebestraum,” by Liszt.

Term Grades Are Now Available To Students

Term grades are being rapidly compiled at the registrar’s office, and are being as rapidly posted in room 118, Chambers,
where they are available to students throughout the day. Contrary to custom, copies of these term grades will not be
mailed to the students, although they will be mailed to parents by Friday, February 1st.

All grades made during or after last Monday are put on the record of the second semester, and cuts are
now counted against the students’ new allotments.

Roth Presents Talk On Alaska
(Continued from Page 1, Col. 1)

those who were responsible for Roth's being here. When Dr. Roth lectured here about two years ago he had as
his subject, “South America.” One of the largest audiences ever to attend a lecture here was present, and many favorable
comments on the manner of presentation on both of his lectures are now forthcoming. This lecture was free and was
the first to be presented by the school during this school year. However, according to Dr. Shewmake, who is chairman
of the faculty committee on lectures, several other lectures are to be presented during this semester. Dr. Shewmake stated that
announcements concerning these lectures would be made later on.

Play To Be Given By French Circle
(Continued from Page 1, Col. 6)

Other characters are: John McMullen as M. Robert; Jim Cothran as Valere; Val Cassells as Thibault; and Archie Coleman as
Perrine. Billy Pierce will serve as stage-manager, assisted by Henry Eve, Ed Womble, and Tom Wood.

As soon as this three-act comedy has been learned it will be given at a public meeting held in Chambers
auditorium. This meeting will be held jointly with the members of the Converse College French club, and delegates from that
institution will also present a French comedy, the well-known Le Voyage de M. Perrichon.

Sharpshooters Compete For Prize Awards Here

In connection with the personnel of the 1935 rifle team, the R. O. T. C. unit will hold a competitive
tryout in rifle marksmanship next week. The shooting will be done individually between February 4 and 9, on the rifle
range in the armory. The competition will be supervised by some official in the headquarters staff at all times. Scores
must be turned in to the manager of the rifle team not later than six o’clock February 9. Ten shots
are to be fired in each position: prone, sitting, kneeling, and standing, two sighting shots, and two shots in each
bull. Three prizes are offered in this competition: First prize, $2.50; second prize, $1.50, and third prize, $1.00. The five
highest scores will also be counted on that week’s intercollegiate competition, also the Fourth Corps Area match. Those desiring further
details may secure them by seeing Dunc Johnson, manager of the rifle team.

Gwynns Entertain Cabinet Members

Merriam, of the Religious Education Council, and E. A. Yarrow Are Guests

Dr. and Mrs. Price W. Gwynn entertained the local “Y” Cabinet in their home on Monday night, January 4. Present
for the occasion were Mr. T. W. Merriam, secretary of the National Council on Religious Education, and Mr. E. A.
Yarrow, field secretary of the Hagen Foundation. After a delightful buffet supper, the guests engaged in a general discussion. Messrs.
Gwynn and Merriam were both interested in the religious life and activities of undergraduates in our American colleges. They talked
with various members of the Administration and faculty and seemed much impressed with the spiritual atmosphere of the Davidson campus.

Coaching Classes Held In Freshman Subjects

For about two weeks before examinations began, coaching classes were held in several freshman subjects for students who were deficient
in these subjects. These classes were taught by students who were doing good work in the subject, or by upperclassmen
who had done good work when they were taking the subject. These teachers were paid by the FERA. Classes were
held in the following subjects: French A, German A, Spanish A, and Math I.

Former Editor Sends Hauptmann’s Trial
(Continued from Page 1, Col. 6)

some of the jury have to be quartered in the attic. The local hostelry could not accommodate the throngs of
people who descended upon Flemington at meal time so the Ladies Aid of the Methodist Episcopal church is now feeding
“the hungry” instead of “the lost” at 75 cents per plate. However, they are paying off that church debt and
serve delicious food. Betty Gow went there for lunch the day she took the witness stand.

The report that prices have been run up was found to be false. The Correspondent of the Detroit News is
staying at one of these spic and span Flemington homes. He was assigned the master bedroom and gets three meals
a day besides all for $5.00. The sheets are changed every day and a light was installed by his desk.
The lady of the house keeps the room herself and is always careful to keep a covering over his typewriter.

Flemington is a pretty little town which is typical of the places where 70 per cent of the people of
this nation live. There is the famous Hunterdon County Court House. The building is constructed along the lines of an
old Southern Mansion with white columns out front. The whole thing is covered over with white wash which partially covers
up the cracks in its side. The witness chair in the Court House is over a hundred years old.

In the lobby of the Union hotel just across the street you may run into almost anybody. An English correspondent,
smart Alice Hughes, of Hearst syndicated; Damon Runyon, the sports writer; Mrs. Jack Dempsey, formerly Hannah Williams, et al. There
is the country store where you can purchase anything from a tooth brush to a side of bacon. And it
really has an open cracker box in the rear. Next to the general store is the library. Although Flemington is
a small town it goes in strong for culture and book clubs are very active.

First Semester Grades Sing Swan Song To Examinations

For the last ten days a feeling of tension and strain has pervaded the Davidson campus. But now the lid
is off, EXAMS ARE OVER! This familiar phrase brings to the majority a feeling of overwhelming joy, a release from
tightening chains of bondage, and a happy oblivion of the fact that, after all, the year is only half over.

At first, in the intoxication of the let-down, all thought of exam results disappears in a puff of smoke. But
on the morning after, when those neatly-typed sheets of bad news are exposed to the eyes of waiting students, the
puff of smoke descends in the form of a thick black cloud. Of course, this isn’t the case with all,
but if you notice the faces of your fellow students at the bulletin board, you'll get a pretty revealing picture
of the inner thoughts of each. Naturally you'll find a look of half-hopeful expectancy in the eyes of the waiting,
and, in some cases, mingled with a little worry. Others are more cheerful and push happily through the crowd to
see the A that they know darn well is on the other side. But if it should be a B,
oh gosh! Will Aloysius have to tell his professor his innermost thoughts, which are

College Officials Upheld By Jurist

Judge Otis E. Hungate, justice of the Shawnee District Court in Topeka, Kansas, recently denied the appeal of Raymond McMahon,
student at Kansas State College, to injunction the R. O. T. C. authorities at the college to restrain them from
compelling young McMahon to take the military training course. His decision is an important one in that it upholds the
fact that land grant colleges can compel students to participate in R. O. T. C. because “the students’ constitutional rights
are not jeopardized in that taking a military training is distinctly different from bearing arms in time of war.” McMahon
refused to report for military drill at the beginning of the school year and was suspended by the college officials.

McMahon's case was the first time the question had been ruled by a Kansas court, and is important to the
other states for similar cases.

Ministerial Band Elects Second Terms Officers

An election of officers for the remaining part of this school year was held by the Ministerial Band during its
meeting last Sunday at the Social Center. Those elected were: President, J. M. Smith; vice-president, J. Salango; secretary-treasurer, L. C.
Vass, who was re-elected. The retiring officers are W. J. B. Livingston, president, and J. C. Alexander, vice-president.

The Band voted in favor of a two-page section in the Annual this year. An effort shall be made to
make this section unusually attractive and interesting.None too complimentary! His professor probably forgot he was one of the Virginia Twaddies.
Professors are that way. Then there's the other happy guy who made a D in Basic Math. He's even more
joyous ‘cause he passed and that's a lot. After all, it’s a lot more fun to make low grades because
you'll never attain the peak of just making it if you're on the Dean's list. The cause of these expressions
is no mere trifling bulletin board. It’s the guillotine. Heads fall as students stop to look, but those that fall
were thrust in thoughtlessly and left to await the blade. The more wily and foreseeing climb atop the chopper and,
perched there, chortle gleefully at the gore.

Among the GREEKS

Kappa Sigma
The members of the Kappa Sigma fraternity are making plans for the annual Kappa Sigma banquet which is to be
held in the private dining room of the Hotel Charlotte, in Charlotte.

Pi Kappa Alpha
The Beta Chapter of the Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity gave a party the night of Saturday, January 26th, in their
house. The guests present were: Helen Simmons, Virginia Dunavant, of Charlotte; Caddie Willis, Isabel White, Parks Lafferty, Jim Towery, and
Albert Howard of Concord; Alice Gage of Chester, S. C.; Sarah Wright of Clinton; Ginger Davis of Florence; Mary McLaughn
of Toccoa, Ga.; Margaret Tate of Atlanta, Ga.; Jenny Thompson and Jean Stough of Davidson.

Pi Kappa Phi
The Epsilon Chapter of the Pi Kappa Phi fraternity announce that plans have been completed for a complete refurnishing of
their chapter house.

Kappa Alpha
The Sigma Chapter of the Kappa Alpha fraternity held a “get-together” the night of Monday, January 28th. This “get-together” was
held in the form of a feed. Albert Cumbie has recently been pledged.

Phi Delta Theta
The N. C. Gamma Chapter of the Phi Delta Theta fraternity had a “feed” the night of Sunday, January 27th,
to celebrate the completion of the examination season. Two visitors were present, Bob Glasgow and Miss Toi Monroe, both of
Charlotte.

From DAVIDSONIANS of Years Gone By

FIVE YEARS AGO
Fifty gridders out for spring training. Dirigible, Los Angeles passes over town Sunday. Rifle team begins year’s competition. Basketball squad
will battle Virginia schools. Scabbard and Blade holds rifle contest. Y. M. C. A. forecasts prominent speakers. Davidson “Y” squad
begins cage season. Charlotte “Y” team conquers Wildcat five.

TEN YEARS AGO
Davidson five defeats Duke cagers twice. Coach Tilson plans to develop fast track team. Mr. Tom Glasgow makes stirring address
to the Y. M. C. A. Tryouts to be held for Senior Speaking. Dr. Harding is host at reception Thursday.

FIFTEEN YEARS AGO
Dr. Harding’s condition much improved. Randolph-Macon and Mercer to be placed on debating team schedule this spring. Wildcats drop first
basketball game to Guilford. Judge Osborne passes away. Lively time expected for Junior Speaking. Intercollegiate debating team to be chosen
soon.

TWENTY YEARS AGO
Blue Pencil Club organizes for work. Literary societies elect new officers. Juniors defeat frosh by straight football. Basketball team makes
good showing. Orchestra and Glee Club to give concert at Winthrop College. Service medals awarded during spring.

Ross and Morgan Lead In Points for Wildcats
Courtney Ross, lanky forward of the Davidson Wildcat basketball team, is leading the Wildcat scorers with a total of 71
points for the nine games that the team has played. He is followed in the scoring column by Jim Morgan
with 65 counters and Maurice Peabody with 62. Captain Charlie Harris is in fourth place with a total of 50
points and Bill Quick as fifth man accounted for 35. Kenneth Knorr, forward, has 19 points to his credit and
the remainder of the scores were marked by Windham, Yelverton, and Cathey.

Stuffy Head
The Wildcats of Coach Flake Laird have scored 321 points during the present season, a game average of more than
35 points.

Expert Workmanship
CARS FOR RENT
Our Specialty
Gulf Gas and Oil
BUFF SHOE SHOP
M. P. HENDERSON

AT THE LOCAL THEATRE

Wednesday, Jan. 30
THE NIGHT IS YOUNG
This picture brings an all-star cast with Ramon Navarro playing the lead. He is supported by Evelyn Laye, Charles Butterworth,
Una Merkle, and Edward Everett Horton. Both Horton and Butterworth furnish very good comedy, as well as Una Merkle. Ramon
Navarro and Miss Laye also give excellent performances.

Thursday, Jan. 31 - Friday, Feb. 1
COUNTY CHAIRMAN
Will Rogers returns again in another of his inimitable and enjoyable performances. It has received favorable criticism and should be
entertaining for all. He is supported by Evelyn Venable and Kent Taylor.

Saturday, Feb. 2
ROCKY MOUNTAIN MYSTERY
This is another of Zane Grey's thrillers, starring Randolph Scott. It is a very thrilling and mysterious western. The cast
includes Randolph Scott and Chick Sales.

Monday and Tuesday, Feb. 3 and 4
DAVID COPPERFIELD
This is the picturization of Charles Dickens’ historic work, and is said to be superior to “Oliver Twist,” another of
his books that was filmed a few years ago, and which was so well liked. It has an all-star cast,
including W. C. Fields, Madge Evans, Edna Mae Oliver, Lionel Barrymore, Maureen O'Sullivan, and Roland Young.

Davidsonian Honored by Virginia Normal School
The Rotunda, official journalistic organ of the State Teachers’ College in Farmville, Va., carries notice that The Davidsonian, along with
the newspapers of various other schools of the South, will be placed on the reading rack of the college library,
for the future convenience and interest of the students.

Phikeia “Ric” White has been transferred to the University of Florida.

Sigma Phi Epsilon
The N. C. Epsilon Chapter of the Sigma Phi Epsilon fraternity has completed plans for a banquet to be held
during the week-end of the Mid-Winter dances. Buford Young has gone to Bluefield, W. Va., to have an appendix operation.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon
The N. C. Theta Chapter of the Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity has elected as officers for the coming year the
following men: For president, W. C. Neill, for vice-president J. M. Douglas, for secretary, T. M. Marchant, and for treasurer,
W. Lamont Brown.

Button, Button, Who Got The Questions?
A rather typical example of the manner in which stories and facts can be twisted by constant repetition took place
here recently. The Davidson grapevine graph had evidently swung into action, and an underclassman came to Skip Brown, much in
alarm. He wanted to know for what reason the Student Council was searching the dormitories. Skip parried with a return
question. “Well, why IS the supposed search taking place?” he asked. The supposition was, he was told, that, by way
of a conflict exam, someone had made away with the exam questions. The faculty, after meeting throughout the afternoon, had
turned the responsibility over to the Council, and these gentlemen were canvassing the dormitory rooms to find the questions. Query—who’s
begging the questions?

Necessity of Examining Assumptions
ROTARIANS HEAR PROF. C.K. BROWN
Economics Professor Speaks at Dinner on Recovery Problems and Assumptions

Dr. C. K. Brown of the Davidson faculty addressed the Charlotte Rotary Club at their weekly dinner last Tuesday, January
21st. Dr. Brown chose as his subject “The Necessity of Examining the Assumptions Upon Which We Wish to Build Our
Commonwealth in the Future.” When speaking of the recovery that is now being carried out, Dr. Brown said that recovery
was not of any use until we knew what we wished to recover. He then proceeded to discuss three sets
of conflicting assumptions which might be made. The first: Human nature is considered essentially good and that it requires only
an opportunity to show its goodness. This was contrasted with the assumption that we are not, by nature, essentially good
and hence no government can establish a Utopia. He remarked that on this last point many people thought that there
would never be a good government because of the predominating faults of the people. The second: Economic problem is the
fundamental problem of society. He contrasted this with the assumption that the economic problem is only one of a number
of complex problems. From the latter assumption, it would follow that all our difficulties would not be over even if
the economic problem should be solved. The third: Freedom, which is one of the greatest objectives of society, means the
right to do certain particular things. Notably among these particular things are the rights to receive income and consume goods.
This was contrasted with the assumption that freedom is to be defined in abstract terms as an attribute of human
will. This refers to the right to achieve higher development, a right to be something and a right to do
something. Dr. Brown closed his address by adding that we will have to make up our minds on which assumptions
are to be made. On these assumptions and others a government is built. Thus we cannot proceed until we know
which way to go.

Davidson Library Adds Several Recent Works
The following new books have recently been added to the Davidson Library: Frans Anton Mesmer by Margaret Goldsmith, a biography
of the founder of modern psychotherapy and a history of mesmerism; America’s Capacity to Produce by Edwin G. Nourse and
associates. This book deals with the distribution of wealth in the United States. Who Rules America? by John McConaughty, a
story of the men who have seized the rule of the United States; Story of Columbus by Mara L. P.
Chadwick, dealing with the life of Columbus and his discovery of America; Owen D. Young by Ida M. Tarbell, tells
of the career of Owen D. Young and his rise in power. The Farther Shore by Nathaniel E. Griffin and
Lawrence Hunt, an anthology of World Opinion on the Immortality of the Soul; The Story of England's Architecture by Thomas
E. Tallmadge, on the history of architecture in England; General George Brinton McClellan by William Starr Myers. This is an
extraordinarily human biography of McClellan, perhaps the most controversial figure of the Civil War. Leaders and Periods of American Finance
by Theodore J. Grayson. This deals with the history of American finance in an entirely different way; One, None and
a Hundred Thousand by Luigi Pirandello. This is the most distinguished novel to appear written by this great Italian novelist
and playwright.

Davidson Theatre
WEDNESDAY, JAN. 30
THE NIGHT IS YOUNG
WITH RAMON NAVARRO, EVELYN LAYE, CHAS. BUTTERWORTH, EDWARD EVERETT HORTON

THURSDAY, JAN. 31 & FRIDAY, FEB. 1
COUNTY CHAIRMAN
WITH WILL ROGERS, EVELYN VENABLE, AND KENT TAYLOR

SATURDAY, FEB. 2
ROCKY MOUNTAIN MYSTERY
WITH RANDOLPH SCOTT

MONDAY AND TUESDAY, FEB. 3 & 4
DAVID COPPERFIELD
WITH W. C. FIELDS, MADGE EVANS, LIONEL BARRYMORE, MAUREEN O’SULLIVAN, AND ROLAND YOUNG
