THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 23, 1935

Former Head D. View Poli

Virginia’s Stand On Non-Professional Sports Backed By Capt. Pritchett

CITES OWN EXPERIENCE

Coach Publishes Article In University Alumni Bulletin

Captain Norton G. Pritchett, former director of athletics at Davidson College, and now director of the new department of athletics
and Physical Education at the University of Virginia, writes in the October issue of the University’s Alumni News his views
of “the vital part that athletics should play in any comprehensive plan of education,” and discusses some of the problems
confronting him in his new position.

“After more than twenty years of teaching, coaching, and athletic administration, I see no reason for explanations or apologies in
believing that the student who has engaged seriously in some form of athletics under proper conditions is better equipped for
later vocation than is the case otherwise,” writes Capt. Pritchett. After emphasizing the importance of training, he continues, “I cannot
conceive of sportsmanship as an attitude of mind that permits an opponent to win without mobilizing every faculty at one’s
command to prevent his doing so. Lose we must and will at times, and true sportsmanship in recognizing our opponents’
temporary superiority demands our acceptance of that fact in effective preparation for the next encounter.”

Capt. Pritchett dwells at some length on the stand that Virginia has taken on the question of amateurization—that of “splendid
isolation.” He insists that it is wrong to emphasize the faults of other institutions in this line, but “a positive
attitude toward athletics on our campus lies in the fact that athletics should demand the best we have to offer
in manpower, support, and unselfish service.”

“I have a peculiar admiration and sympathy for the Virginia athlete who competes on a losing team: he gets no
pay for his services and apparently too little compensation due him in the form of support and encouragement. Such a
condition can hardly do other than create a spirit of defeatism instead of sustained determination and teamwork.” He compliments the
determination in the attitude and action of Virginia’s representatives in the ring, that he has observed while serving as referee,
as a sign of teamwork, and cooperation, and expresses the opinion that if the feeling spreads to the campus, there
will be no reason for bickering.

Law Students Top Vocational Roster

Law students outnumber the vocational group at Davidson College, sixty-three men. The General Business course has enrolled 141; 45 are
candidates for the ministry; one is studying dramatics; one is searching the fields of Geology; and one is taking a
course in Archaeology. 174 are undecided. About the same number of parents are in business as there are men going
into business. Sixty-two are ministers' sons and 47 doctors’ offspring. Twenty-six states and seven foreign countries are represented in the
student body. North Carolina claims 359, South Carolina, 52, and Tennessee, 30. There are 18 men registered from foreign countries.
The Presbyterians outnumber all other denominations having 413 men. The Methodists have 104, and twelve other denominations 127. Only 24
men are not affiliated with any church. Sixteen men are striving for an A.B. one degree; 111 for an A.B.
two; 223 for a B.S. one; and 306 for a B.S. two.

Shaving Cream Tooth Paste All Standard Brands

C. Athletics

Dr. W. L. Lingle To Speak On Japanese Christian

President Walter L. Lingle will speak on the life of Kagawa, the great Japanese Christian, to all those interested in
the Student Volunteer Movement, on Sunday afternoon, Oct. 27, in the Social Center. This is the first of a series
of talks planned by the Student Volunteer group. The purpose of the series being to bring before the students some
of the great men of the world who typify Christian ideals. Speakers will be members of the faculty and possibly
outsiders who are familiar with the subject. Other men who may be studied include Gandhi and Schweitzer.

Town TATTLE

Four musicians from Davidson College will play with the Charlotte Symphony Orchestra at its first concert Friday, October 25, at
the Alexander Graham Jr. High School auditorium. The Davidson personnel is as follows: J. C. Pfohl, string bass; W. P.
Babcock, cello; A. M. Cunningham, cornet; C. H. Storey, French horn.

Miss Adele Arbuckle, Miss Charlotte Hunter, and Miss Mary Young attended the Agnes Scott Alumnae Tea in Charlotte Monday afternoon.
Miss Hunter is a member of the executive council of the Charlotte Alumnae Association.

Mrs. McDowell Richards and small son of Decatur, Ga. are guests of Dr. and Mrs. C. M. Richards. Miss Jane
L. Richards, who teaches at Flora McDonald, was also a guest at the home of her parents during the weekend.

Mrs. J. R. Withers entertained at an informal tea Monday afternoon, in honor of Mrs. W. B. Carson of Wilmington,
N. C., who has been a guest in the home of her cousin, Mrs. Sara Wooton Johnston.

Rev. and Mrs. C. M. Myers of Greensboro were guests Saturday of Professor and Mrs. Lewis Schenck. They came to
attend the Davidson-Carolina game.

The American Legion Auxiliary met in the Civic League Hall Tuesday afternoon with Mrs. S. T. Stough presiding. After the
installation of officers a program of piano duets was rendered by Mrs. G. B. Watts and Prof. R. G. Bailey.

Dr. Oscar Fulcher of Welch, W. Va., spent the weekend as the guest of Professor and Mrs. H. E. Fulcher.

Professor and Mrs. S. S. Minault have left for their home in Ohio.

The Mooresville Book Club was entertained Wednesday afternoon at the home of Mrs. Sara W. Johnston. Several Davidson ladies were
guests of the Club.

Mr. and Mrs. Sarle of Landrum, S. C., are visiting their daughter, Mrs. C. L. Ives.

A Davidson High School band has been organized under the leadership of Warren P. Babcock. Rehearsals are held weekly, twice.

Fighting Wildcat Team Holds Carolina Eleven In Hard Fought Battle

(Continued from page 4)

was successful. Davidson netted three first downs and reached the Carolina 17-yard line as the half ended.

THIRD QUARTER

Two punt exchanges gave Davidson the ball on their 37, but Snyder intercepted Pittman’s pass on Carolina's 48. Jackson made
16 and Montgomery 30 to bring the ball near Davidson's goal once more and Montgomery scored from there. Daniels again
converted the try for point. Lafferty picked up 45 yards on a lateral around end as the third quarter closed.

FOURTH QUARTER

Pittman made his 55-yard run in the beginning of the last period. The ball could not be advanced so punts
were exchanged. A Davidson pass was intercepted on Carolina’s 30-yard line. Following two more punts Pittman tossed a pass to
Verble that was good for 8 yards. From there Pittman kicked the ball to Carolina’s 30 as the game ended.

SYMPHONIC BAND WILL GIVE CONCERT HERE

This is the 31st annual concert tour.

Aged ‘Mammy’ Laid To Rest

Faithful Darkey Passes After Years Of Service In Home Of Mrs. Smith

There passed away at the home of Mrs. N. T. Smith, on the morning of October 15, a dear old
colored Mammy who had served in the family for more than three generations. Her faithfulness and her love for the
family and the family’s love for her cannot be told in words—it is a feeling too deep and indescribable, and
known only to those who have experienced it. She was a member of St. Philip’s Moravian Church in Winston-Salem, and
she was laid to rest in that town where she once lived with Mrs. Smith's family. This type of the
old South is rapidly disappearing; in fact, it is practically gone, and we shall not see its like again. The
really beautiful and unselfish friendship and devotion of such characters are a feeling of the past. A short service was
held at Mrs. Smith’s home at 6:30 on the evening of October 15. It was conducted by Dr. H. M.
Moffett, who read a portion of scripture; Prof. Schenck, who made a few appreciative remarks; and Dr. C. M. Richards,
who offered the prayer. Mrs. E. Watkins played a few hymns. Many friends and neighbors were in attendance to pay
a loving tribute to “Mammy.”

Photo Club Features Discussion on Lenses

The Photographic Club met last Wednesday afternoon, October 16, in Dr. Lyon’s classroom in Chambers Building. A roundtable discussion on
telephoto lenses, color filters, copy work, use of the photometer, and the relation between shutter speeds and diaphragm openings, was
held. J. K. Abernathy and Elliott Motley contributed prints for examination and criticism by the group. A motion was made
and passed that the meetings this year shall be held on the second and fourth Wednesday afternoons of each month
at 4:00 o'clock. Plans for the year’s programs were announced by Graham Squires, president of the club. Dr. Scott Lyon
will speak at the next meeting, to be held on Wednesday afternoon, October 30, on the composition of pictures. The
club was formed several years ago, by a group of students interested in photography. They now have a darkroom in
Shearer Hall, which may be used by members of the club. Any upper-Classman or Freshman is eligible for membership, whether
he has ever done any photographic work or not. The only requirement is that he be interested in photography.

Future Ministers Hear Professor L. B. Schenck

The Ministerial Band held a meeting in the Social Center on Sunday afternoon, with Jimmy Selango in charge. Only about
twelve of the forty-five members were present. Professor L. B. Schenck, a loyal friend of the organization, delivered an interesting
and instructive address on “Seizing Opportunities.” He outlined a course of study that should be followed by those students with
the ministry in mind as a profession and emphasized the fact that students should acquire the habit of doing their
very best in everything they undertake on the Davidson campus, be it work or play. The address was followed by
a short business meeting in which the appointment of ushers for the church was discussed, but definite appointments were not
made.

Kryl and his Band have proven popular at many universities. This forty-piece Band will perform on Monday, October 28, in
Chambers Auditorium. With the Band are three accomplished soloists in violin, voice, and harp.

Society Publishes Howard’s Studies

American Chemical Society Honors Davidson Professor’s Research

Among members of the Davidson College faculty whose writings have, during recent months, appeared in learned journals of national scope
is Dr. David H. Howard, of the Chemistry Department. Four studies by Dr. Howard were published during 1933 and 1934
in different journals of the American Chemical Society, under the general head of “Behavior of the Hydronitrogens and their Derivatives
in Liquid Ammonia.” These four papers continue a series begun by other scholars. The numbers and titles are as follows:

VI. Hydrazine: Thermal Action of Incandescent Filaments Immersed in Liquid Ammonia
VII. Yields of Hydrazine Obtained by Pyrolysis of Liquid Ammonia
VIII. Formation of Ammonium Trinitride-Ammonia
IX. Equilibria in the System Hydrazine Trinitride-Ammonia

A. W. Bright collaborated with Mr. Howard, and in one of them, P. Friedrichs. All of the material in these
articles has since appeared in reprints, and part was published separately as a thesis for presentation to the faculty of
the Graduate School of Cornell University for the degree of Doctor of Philosophy. This degree was conferred on Mr. Howard
in June 1933. After graduation, Dr. Howard joined the staff of George Washington University, Washington, D. C., returning in September
1935, to Davidson to become a member of the faculty of his Alma Mater.

Six Seniors and One Post Grad. Tapped Today

(Continued from Page 1)

The bid sign was given to W. C. Branton. Branton is president of the Davidson Pan-Hellenic Council, he is Captain
of Scabbard and Blade, a staff captain in the Davidson R.O.T.C. unit, manager of freshman baseball, and a member of
the Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity. Harvey Glass went off the roster after the second tap of the gavel and
issued a bid to D. B. Griffin, who has been active in several departments on the Davidson campus. He is
one of the managers of the students’ store, equipment manager of the R.O.T.C. unit, a member of several honorary fraternities,
and is affiliated with the local chapter of Phi Delta Theta. At the next signal, Bob Lindsay went into the
audience and tapped P. Y. Harlan. Harlan is the newly elected president of the varsity football team, president of the
honorary fraternity council, he was editor of the Wildcat Handbook, president of the Forensic Council, he is a member of
the student council and several honorary fraternities. He is also a member of the Phi Gamma Delta social organization. The
next pledge brought to the platform was S. F. Marsh, who was tendered his bid by Martin Barnett. Marsh has
for three years been student pastor of the Davidson Unity Church. He has also been quite active in Y.M.C.A. work,
being Vice-President of that organization last year, and a member of the cabinet.

The fifth tap of the gavel went to Lamont Brown, who went into the senior section and tapped R. P.
Morrow, Jr. Morrow is this year’s Business Manager of The Davidsonian, he is manager of the varsity basketball team, a
member of numerous honorary fraternities, and a first lieutenant in the R.O.T.C. unit, and is affiliated with the Kappa Sigma
fraternity. Cole Windham tapped the sixth man, who was L. T. Purnell. He is the Judge of the Court of
Control, he was vice president of the YMCA last year and a member of the editorial staff of The Yowl.
He is a second Lieutenant in ROTC, and a member of the Kappa Sigma fraternity. Last year he was made
captain of the Davidson R.O.T.C. unit.

CINEMATIC COMMENTS

DAVIDSON THEATRE

Wednesday, Oct. 23
THE LAST OUTPOST
This is a new release from Hollywood. Another French Foreign Legion plot with Cary Grant taking the leading role.

Thursday and Friday, Oct. 24 and 25
RAINMAKERS
Bert Wheeler and Robert Woolsey are playing together in this show. The plot is the usual run of these two
comedy stars. Dorothy Lee adds the required touches to this show.

Saturday, Oct. 26
FARMER TAKES A WIFE
La petite Janet Gaynor tries to give up her life on a small canal boat to marry Henry Fonda who
desires to be a farmer. The cast includes Slim Summerville, Andy Devine, and Jane Withers.

Monday and Tuesday, Oct. 28 and 29
HERE’S TO ROMANCE
This cinema brings to the screen the splendid voice of the well-known star Nino Martini, a young singer sent to
Paris by Genevieve Tobin to study. There he falls in love with Anita Louise, a dancer. Tobin attempts to break
them up but fails after many whirlwind episodes. Madame Schumann-Heink and Maria, the dancer, both are in this cast.

A. M. Cunningham graduated from Davidson last June and is back this year doing post-graduate work and assisting Professor Pfohl
as director of music. During his undergraduate days, Cunningham was quite prominent in the various musical organizations on the campus,
distinguishing himself particularly as a cornet player. Last year he was cadet captain of the Davidson band and a member
of the symphony orchestra. All of the men bid at the exercises accepted in the usual fashion, which increases the
size of the local circle to 14 student members. After ribbons had been pinned upon all of the pledges, President
Chapman asked the audience to stand and he dismissed with the singing of “O Davidson.” The newly bid men will
be initiated at an early date.

Debating Tryouts Set November 15th

(Continued from Page 1)

The team is composed of six men. The team last year won six matches and lost two. They also tied
two and had several non-decisions. It has definitely been decided that both sides of the question will be debated by
the team. These tryouts are conducted under the supervision of the Forensic Council. The officers for this group for the
coming year are: Paul Harlan, President; Tyler Port and James Selango, Vice-Presidents; Wade Boggs, Treasurer, and Harold Sugg, Debate Manager.
Forensic Council stationery has been ordered and a tentative budget arranged. Tryouts for the freshman team will be held later
in the year. The freshman team has been accustomed to being a non-active team without any schedule.

WHITE DRUG CO.
Complete Line of HALLOWEEN CANDIES

Davidson Theatre

Wednesday, Oct. 23
THE LAST OUTPOST
With Cary Grant

Thursday and Friday, Oct. 24-25
RAINMAKERS
With Bert Wheeler, Robert Woolsey, and Dorothy Lee

Saturday, Oct. 26
FARMER TAKES A WIFE
With Janet Gaynor, Slim Summerville, Andy Devine, and Jane Withers

Monday and Tuesday, Oct. 28-29
HERE’S TO ROMANCE
With Nino Martini, Genevieve Tobin, and Anita Louise
