THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 20, 1935

LIBRARY OBTAINS LATEST VOLUMES

Biographies, Novels, And Historical Books Are Included In Purchase

Great men, their lives and accomplishments, dominate the newest books on the library shelves, though some are concerned with science
and literature, and with war. The following volumes are now available to students:

Edison, His Life, His Work, His Genius, by William A. Simonds. This book is all the name implies, as it
discusses in detail the transformation of a village boy into a wizard of invention.

Glory-Hunter, a Life of General Custer, by Frederic F. Van de Water. In this book, the author shows that the
great motive behind the life of Custer was the pursuit of glory.

Hoover Off the Record, by Theodore G. Joslin. The author, by virtue of his secretaryship to the President from 1931
to 1933, is especially qualified to write of the Presidential activities of his chief.

Sun Yat-Sen, by Lyon Sharman. This biographical and historical work deals with the life and activities of the man who
brought into being the Republic of China.

What Plato Said, by Paul Shorey. This is a complete analysis of all writings attributed to Plato, with full critical
comment, from the pen of the former head of the Department of Greek at the University of Chicago.

AT THE LOCAL THEATRE

Wednesday, March 20
LOVE IN BLOOM
This is another musical starring George Burns and Gracie Allen, Joe Morrison, and Dixie Lee. Burns and Allen still give
their usual performance and Joe Morrison renders some of the popular songs.

Thursday, March 21
RUGGLES OF RED GAP
This is the picturization of Harry Leon Wilson’s story of that name. The leading family of Red Gap, Washington (Mary
Boland and Charles Ruggles), win a butler, Ruggles (Charles Laughton) from an Englishman in a poker game.

Friday, March 22
VANESSA
This was adapted by Hugh Walpole from his own novel. Robert Montgomery, playing the role of Benjie Herries, is the
black sheep of a large English family. He does not marry Vanessa (Helen Hayes), another member of the family, but
goes to China instead.

Saturday, March 23
CAR 99
This is the thrilling story of how a young Michigan state policeman redeems himself after being kicked off the force
for allowing a robber to escape, while in his charge, and robbing a bank.

Monday and Tuesday, March 25 and 26
WEDDING NIGHT
This picture stars Gary Cooper and Anna Sten.

Former Davidson Athlete Is Recuperating From Illness

Clifford “Pat” Crawford, class of '23, is a Davidson athlete who has carried the Wildcat Spirit into professional baseball. The
Charlotte Observer of March 13 carried the following human interest story of the baseball star:

“Gordon Heath, small son of City Clerk Thomas W. Heath, got his Pats mixed when he prayed for the recovery
of Pat Crawford, big league baseball player who was near death here for weeks.

“Many small boys prayed for Crawford, their idol, when word spread that doctors had all but given him up. Whether
as a result of the prayer or not, Crawford is on the way to recovery.

“About as popular with youngsters is Patrolman Pat Wright. He, too, is a baseball player. He went as high as
one gets in the minors.

“Oh, Lord, please help Pat Wright and make him well,’ petitioned young Heath. Then he hopped into bed and pulled
a blanket over him.

“‘Where do you get that Pat Wright stuff?’ asked an older brother.

“Small Gordon scrambled out of bed and made a correction. ‘Oh, Lord,’ he said, ‘I made a mistake. I meant
Pat Crawford. He's a good skate.’

“Pat” broke into league ball with...the Charlotte Hornets of the old South Atlantic League and was sold by that club
to Toledo of the American Association. Here he refused to play Sunday baseball and was sent to Greenville of the
Sally League. The New York Giants purchased him but he was used as wampum in a deal with the Cincinnati
Reds. Another trade brought the Davidson athlete to the St. Louis Cards. He served for two years or more as
a substitute first baseman and utility man for the Cards, figuring in the recent World Series. He was taken sick
in Kinston this fall, where he was lecturing on the World Series. During this time, he received word of his
appointment to the managership of the 1935 Rochester team in the International League.

One of the most outstanding athletes that ever attended Davidson and a well-rounded gentleman, Crawford was captain of the baseball
team, president of the Y. M. C. A., and an all-state basketball and baseball player. He was a charter member
of the local chapter of Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity. A picture of this popular athlete graces the walls of
the local Fiji domicile.

SERVICE : VARIETY HOTEL DAVIDSON QUALITY QUANTITY

Rifle Team Loses Meet With State

The Davidson College rifle team lost a close match to the N. C. State team last Saturday, March 9, on
the State rifle range. The Davidson team was composed of Gordon Green, captain, Dune Johnson, manager, Baxter Simpson, A. Cathey,
and S. L. Jetton. The score of the match was 848 for State and 844 for Davidson.

The team was entertained at a set of dances given by the Monogram Club of State College that weekend. During
the week of March 2, Davidson won a correspondence match with Michigan State and also South Dakota State. Shooting for
the national competition match sponsored by William Randolph Hearst will begin this week. All of the shooting will be done
by correspondence. The members of the rifle team were selected on their ability on the local range about three weeks
ago.

Lewis Defeats Phifer In Net Tourney Finals

(Continued from Page 4)

The quarter-final was played against Martin Barnett, where he met his worst opposition but managed to get by with 8-6,
4-6, 6-2, 6-2. The tennis team will play the first game of the season this coming Thursday when they meet
Ohio State on the local courts. They will leave on their first trip of the season on March 28. The
following teams will be met: U. of Florida at Gainesville; Rollins at Winter Park, Fla.; Georgia Tech and Emory University
at Atlanta, Ga.; U. of Georgia at Athens, and the U. of South Carolina at Columbia. Later on in the
year, they will leave on a trip north, where they engage in games with approximately seven schools, afterwards continuing on
to the state tournament.

“and how shall they hear without a preacher?”

A True School of the Prophets UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY RICHMOND, VIRGINIA

LUCKIES USE ONLY CENTER LEAVES... CENTER LEAVES TASTE BETTER

You find me the welcome third. I am always the same, always mild, mellow, fine-flavored, friendly to your throat. I
am made of center leaves, only. Those small, sticky top leaves are sharp and bitter. Sand and grit destroy the
flavor of the bottom leaves. But the choice center leaves grow to mellow ripeness, preserving every bit of flavor. I
am made from these fragrant, expensive center leaves. I do not irritate your throat. This gives me the right to
sign myself “Your best friend.”
