THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 10, 1935

The Davidsonian
Founded by the Class of 1916

MEMBER
Associated Collegiate Press

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Printed by the QUEEN CITY PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate year.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879.

ARTICLES FOR PUBLICATION must be in the hands of Managing Editors by 4:00 o'clock p.m., Monday. Letters to the Editor are welcome, but all communications intended for publication must be signed.

LAMONT BROWN .......... Editor
J. A.C. WADSWORTH .... Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
WILLIE MORTON ........ Managing Editor
HUGH OVERTON ........ Managing Editor
HAROLD SUGG .......... Managing Editor
RAYMOND TURNER ...... Associate Editor
MARTIN GHARNE ........ Associate Editor
HARVEY GLASS .......... Associate Editor
PAUL ASHARDAN ......... Editor
TOM MARCHANT ........ Editor
JOHN WATKINS .......... Editor
JESS GOSLEN ............ Business Mgr.
VAN CASSELS ........... Business Mgr.
LOUIS ROSS ............. Business Mgr.
J. S. McMURRIN ......... Business Mgr.
R. P. MORROW .......... Business Mgr.

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 10, 1935

THE OLD ORDER GIVES WAY TO THE NEW

With this issue of The Davidsonian, the old staff severs its connection to turn the destiny of the paper over to a fresher and more ambitious regime. One year ago we, too, were ambitious and eager to get started with our new schemes and ideas. But today, having run our course, our spirit is dampened though our efforts and intentions are still just as sincere as at the beginning. Like every other regime that has gone before, we have learned in the end that the journalistic realm of The Davidsonian, as far as true journalism is concerned, is very closely bound within certain limits.

It would be impossible to express appropriately in writing our many thoughts and feelings in parting. We feel that our work on The Davidsonian has been the most impressive and most beneficial part of our college education. Especially has this last year of experience been invaluable. The connections it has made for us, the lessons in teamwork and cooperation, and numerous other things that it has taught us have not only already been helpful, but we are sure that they will prove still more valuable to us in the future. To all those who have contributed to and been interested in The Davidsonian, we wish to express our sincere appreciation.

In view of the fact that this year we have deviated somewhat from the normal policy of the paper in several respects, we are grateful to the administration of the college for its spirit of cooperation with which it has treated us this year. And may we remind the new staff that all with whom it must deal that a spirit of understanding and cooperation is the best and most successful policy.

It is with a feeling of reluctance that the old staff brings its work to an end. We are proud that we have had the opportunity to play a part in recording through “The Davidsonian” the events of one year of history of so great an institution as Davidson College. In conclusion, we wish for the incoming regime great success in their new undertaking and may they ever keep in mind the slogan of The Davidsonian, “For a Better Davidson.”

—K. D. W.

A CHALLENGE TO THINKING YOUTH

“—one thing I do, forgetting the things which are behind, and stretching forward to the things which are before, I press on toward the goal unto the prize of the high calling of God in Christ Jesus.” Phil. 3-13.

What may be said in these lines to follow, however poorly it is expressed; nevertheless is intended as a challenge to every member of the student body. We hear ever and anon during these days dissertations on the fact that the civilization of tomorrow depends on the youth of today. We are everywhere urged to gird ourselves for the struggle, to forget the past and everything that it has held, and start out on a new tangent, to turn over a new leaf. But the structure of the civilization of today is so loose, so muddled, that we the youth on whom this responsibility rests, find it hard to discover a starting place, a foundation on which to build. “We would be glad,” we say, “to undergo this rebirth, if we had some way outlined to us, and if someone were to show us the backbone on which to mold accomplishment.”

And it is true that youth’s eagerness, spurred on by the finding of a religion almost forgotten, is in process of beginning this effort towards rebuilding the social and economic order. There is a difficulty, which is a millstone about the neck of today’s youth movement. That is the INDIFFERENCE of the vast majority of youth in America towards religion. For it is only through practicing the methods of Jesus Christ, that we can formulate a world that will really bring happiness and success. Other methods have been tried, and all seem to have failed. Men who admit the existence of a divinity, who know God, are beginning to realize this. It is up to youth to act on it.

If it is not too personal, let us take Davidson as a good starting place. The Reverend Peter Marshall, when he spoke here not so long ago, said, “Give me six hundred men, a group like those I see before me now, all burning with a zeal to do, and I will set the world afire for Christ.” And why not? But we are INDIFFERENT TO OUR RELIGION. We go to church, yes. But what do we derive from the services? And I dare say most of us go because we are compelled to, and not from any desire to hear, and to act on what we have heard. We are slacking. If the civilization of tomorrow depends on us, what a pitiful thing it will be. We owe it to ourselves to make a working basis for ourselves. We MUST do it.

There is soon to be for us at Davidson an unusual opportunity, which we cannot afford to miss. The Y. M. C. A. Spring Services, offering to us a driving, invigorating young speaker, the Reverend John Redhead, of Tampa, Florida, have been announced for April 14th through 17th. The very fact that Spring Services are to be conducted here constitutes a challenge to every member of this student body; a challenge to assist in this series of talks. And we may rest assured, that if we really assist, and not merely attend, we will come from the services wanting to start anew. The challenge is here, men, to make of Spring Services? What are we going to do?

FOUNDERS’ DAY AND ITS PURPOSE

On April 7, 1836, the cornerstone of what is now known as Shearer Biblical Hall, was laid, completing the first building of Davidson College. During the years that have passed since the founding of the Presbyterian institution by a group of noble Scotch churchmen, Davidson has clothed herself in time-honored traditions that have kept her among the leading church colleges in America. To commemorate this past that has been be-glamoured by unbelievable progress and the embedding of these honorable traditions and to encourage a future that will carry on as well as augment the glorious accomplishments of bygone years, we observe ‘Founders’ Day.’

Yesterday was the second of these days that have been set apart solely for Davidson. It was the ninety-eighth anniversary of the college, and as we review the nearly ten decades that Davidson has been in existence, a great deal can be seen to inspire those of us who are now the real Davidson and make us realize the noble heritage that is ours. It isn’t the purpose to enumerate here the many things that have through almost a hundred years of life brought Davidson to its present high place, but it is simply an effort to bring to mind something of the meaning of Founders’ Day. A time when attention is given to the birth, growth, and hope of Davidson. A time when we honor and revere our loyal forebears, rejoice in our own efforts to leave some minor imprint on the Davidson of today, and optimistically gaze into the grandeur that will characterize the Davidson of tomorrow.

STUDENTS WANT DRESSED-UP BAND

Wildcat Spirit again expressed itself last week when the student body voted to give one-half of its returned damage fee for the purpose of buying new uniforms for the Davidson band. For several years this musical organization wore morbid-looking black uniforms with a touch of red here and there, but use and age made them very unbecoming and unworthy of the Davidson band. Now that the students have shown sufficient interest to relinquish a part of their own funds to see the band really dressed-up, it behooves those in charge to select a classy-looking outfit for these men. Something that will add to the color of the organization and make it hold rank with the best-dressed musical clubs anywhere around. White mingled with the red and black would relieve the mournful air that the old clothes had, and also give an attractive appearance.

COMPASSING the CAMPUS
By Scotty McLeod

The last hops of the year are up this weekend and everybody, it seems, is going to be there. Bowery Ball, a terpsichorean institution in almost every college in this country, always draws the largest crowd of dancers of the entire set of Pan-Hellenic presentations. Jack Williams, in a real Bowery checked suit, took off high honors last year as best costumed. Addison Brenizer attracted much ogling, too, in his winter underwear and swallow-tail coat (no trousers). Saturday eve will again test the ingenuity of undergraduates in concocting odd sartorial effects.

One of the biggest disappointments of the year was felt last Friday night when about thirtyLocal boys journeyed to Mooresville for a much-anticipated circus. After witnessing the first twenty minutes of dull clowning, most of the crowd waded out of the leaking tent and sought entertainment at the town's arcades, bowling alleys, or picture show. Midget Verble, Sam Bernardo, John Anderson, Henry Eve, and others were seen fighting the rain under the sieve-like canvas top. Hippo Heggie, Ed Armfield, Willard Dickson, Bill Harris, Downie, Reggie Harris, and Booby Arrowsmith rolled the balls at the pins afterwards. Mooresville was also host to Geddie Munroe and Dick Hayworth the same night. They met several girls.

The Wildcat baseballers have shown up in splendid fashion this year, and it is not unlikely that they will win state honors in the diamond sport. Woody Burns saved the day against Carolina last week by his bingle in the ninth. All the Ruth followers have merited our support and congratulations.

Florida, West Virginia, New York, and other intermediate states drew Davidsonians during the spring holidays just completed. In the Sunshine State, Hack Sanders and the two Greene boys ran amuck of the law and were cast into a jug on a vagrancy charge. Sam Hutaff and Bill Brewer were basking on the sunny beaches near Tampa until an alarm clock roused them and they returned for classes. In Bluefield, W. Va., Gus Maynard was host to Mal Grimes and Tom Downie; the three made an extended visit to Cinder Bottom, one of the local attractions. Tom Corbin, Buddy Branton, Harmon Woodward, and the regular Bluefield crowd were among the others enjoying the hospitality of the coal-mining city. Salty Peters was at home. Harold Sugg is still on a search for his trousers which the Phi Gam frosh removed from his person and concealed in a place known only to themselves. It’s not known whose pants he is wearing at present.

Salisbury comes in for a large share of Davidson attention as John Sadler and a number of his K. A. sophomore cohorts visit Tillie Jones, Frances Dedmon, and other ginger-cookies in that city. “Roberta,” the latest starring vehicle of Astaire and Rogers, has proved to be the most popular cinema locally seen in many a moon. Irene Dunne was the outstanding performer.

Indifference never wrote great works, nor thought out striking inventions, nor reared the solemn architecture that awes the soul, nor breathed sublime music, nor painted glorious pictures, nor undertook heroic philanthropies. All these grandeurs are born of enthusiasm and are done heartily. —Anon.

OUR CONTEMPORARIES
By En Bowers

Embryonic Politicians in Action
While Davidson contents itself with voting automatically and an occasional bitter tie-up or so, rumbles from brother campuses indicate wide-open politics. At Duke: “An unusually tame campaign is expected to gather momentum during the next five days as the campus political parties conclude their efforts to capture the lion’s share in the annual spring elections.” The candidate list of the Blue and White chains of fraternities voting together was published in The Duke Chronicle, subject to immediate change. This university gives the opportunity for candidates to address the first-year men. At Washington and Lee, the leaders of one party announced through the columns of The Ring Tum Phi that it could see no effective opposition from the other party. In the Wake Forest Old Gold and Black, we read that “The political bosses and ‘big boys’ were very active in the election with the result that promises of ‘milk and honey’ were very frequent.” The Georgia Tech Technique in its editorial column scourges those “who remained in cowards’ shoes by circulating anonymous posters on the eve of the election.”

College Professors are on the Spot
This news is the result of a review of undergraduate publications by the staff of the Associated Collegiate Press and The Collegiate Digest. At the University of Minnesota (Minneapolis), where the Minnesota Daily conducted a poll of students on their estimates of the ability, general fairness, faults, and habits of the faculty, the following answer is typical of the students’ views: “My professor can see things from only one direction, his own—is dead on his feet—is a blight on my tree of knowledge.” The Indiana Daily Student, Indiana University (Bloomington) newspaper, claims that “far too many professors take, in the classroom, one of the two easiest courses open to them. One, giving the same lectures year after year, bores his class and loses both his students’ interest and his own. The other loses his objective in a multitude of petty mental meanderings whose only worth is to entertain the students.” Although admitting some of the complaints of the Minnesota students to be true, The Daily Illini, University of Illinois (Urbana) paper, sides with the professors, charging that “the characterization probably could be placed on the students even more applicably.”

Students Say Phooey on Huey’s Hooey
In an unpopularity contest held at Illinois, Huey Long, William Randolph Hearst, and Father Coughlin are the nominees. Thus far the Kingfish leads by a wide margin, Hearst second. Bates College students were recently warned by their president, Clifton D. Gray, that “we cannot afford to laugh at men like Huey Long and Senator Theodore Bilbo.” In a recent radio debate between Oxford and Columbia, an Oxford speaker made much of “America, the land of radio priests.”

Shrdlu’s from student typewriters
The Gettysburg Academy, a century-old institution, today became college history when the board of trustees of Gettysburg College voted to devote its equipment to a campus for young women. The trustees elected Dr. Charles Huber to head the women’s division and plan for an enrollment of 150 women. Practically every college has some phase of the munitions question among its queries for debate this year. April Fool pranksters stole the whistle of Georgia Tech and threw the day's schedule into a jam. Wake Forest is organizing a “Defeated Candidates Club.” Greeks at Duke agreed to buy at least twenty-five tickets per lodge for the Inter-Fraternity Ball, Isham Jones playing. On April 12 at 11 o'clock, students of colleges and universities all over America have been requested to walk out of classes to join in a mass demonstration against rising war clouds by the Young Students’ League, a pacifist organization with headquarters in New York City. Larry Hill, representative, found to his surprise that there would be “no sich occurrence” on the Duke campus.

NEWS... 27 Years Gone By
FIVE YEARS AGO
Pyramid Club is installed on campus as Sigma Phi Epsilon fraternity. W. B. Goodson elected to the presidency of the Athletic Association on the second ballot. The 1930 volume of Quips and Cranks completes the round-up of material and goes to press. Students elect Roger Enloe vice-president of the Y. M. C. A. Rev. Frank Price addresses undergraduates. Baseball team defeats Elon and State, but loses to Wake Forest. 'Cat cindermen defeat South Carolina, 82-43. Ernest Skinner, noted organ manufacturer, stops to inspect the newly-installed organ. Miss Betty Pritchett elected senior mascot. Captain Jack Pepper announces plans for a golf match against Wake Forest. Track team tramples Furman, 90-35.

TEN YEARS AGO
O. D. K. initiates six men. Virginia track team defeats Davidson, 80-46. C. F. Smith announces new Davidsonian staff. Oak Ridge wins both games of the opening baseball series. Opening of “The Flapper Grandmother,” a rollicking comedy, is announced for Friday. An old-fashioned “street carnival” will feature the annual Junior Speaking this year. A. H. Hollingsworth, new “Y” head, appoints cabinet. Track team prepares to meet Wofford here Saturday. Coach Rawson's frosh baseballers lace Denver to an 11-0 tune. Tennis team to play Clemson here Saturday. Glee Club presents program before a huge Winston-Salem audience. Chester Monk is elected to the editorship of Davidson College Magazine.

FIFTEEN YEARS AGO
Poe and Crawford lead Wildcats to an 8-0 win over Catawba as Shepherd and Miley hold visitors to two hits. Trustees elect Dr. Sentelle to the newly-created office of dean and elect Dr. Grey vice-president of the college. C. K. Brown is chosen as one of the varsity debaters. Sigma Upsilon elects six men, among them W. P. Cummings. Dr. MacConnell leads Davidson to a win over Salisbury Country Club. Baseball team faces a stiff schedule this week, meeting Furman and State. Mr. Jackson leads Easter services of Y. M. C. A.

Commencement Invitations
Fraternity Publications
1143 E. FOURTH ST.
K. D. WEEKS
Fine Printing
QUEEN CITY PRINTING Co.
Representatives
Visiting Cards
Personal and Fraternity Stationery
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
JOE WADSWORTH