THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 30, 1935

Mock Court Martial Creates Excitement Among Students
Ravenel, Rogers, And Harris Hold Spotlight In Military Trial Proceedings
THREE CHARGES BROUGHT
Defendant Is Found Guilty Of Two Charges

(Special to The Davidsonian)

Grimly fighting to clear himself of heavy implications laid at his door by Society, the confident nonchalant air of Bruno
Richard Charles Harris finally succumbed before the biting sarcasm of Prosecution Attorney “Wimp” Wilentz Ravenel despite the resourceful defense of
Teal Reilly Rogers and the defendant was found guilty of kidnapping Exhibit A, U. S. Army Pistol, Serial number: 19382.
Dismissal from the service of the United States was the sentence passed upon Harris after being found guilty on two
counts: Stealing the pistol and willfully disobeying an order of a superior officer. To a third charge of conduct unworthy
of a gentleman, Lt. Harris convinced the court at a mock military trial on January 9th, that he was a
gentleman.

Before a court of R.O.T.C. officers and an audience composed of society celebrities as well as the rabble, the array
of legal talent on both sides paraded numerous firearm experts, philological experts, shoe experts and a number of brilliant witnesses.

Capt. Ravenel as Trial Judge Advocate attempted to show that on the morning of December 5th, 1934, the accused was
in R.O.T.C. class and took a pistol that had been left on Capt. Cochrane’s desk. The accused, claimed the prosecution,
then became afraid and gave the article to Lt. Hillier for its return to Sgt. Burton. The defense on this
point maintained that Harris through his R.O.T.C. training had acquired an affection for pistols and not having sufficient opportunity to
shoot it, had “borrowed” it. Then he gave it to Hillier, telling him that it was “hot” and to return
it. The question then revolved around two points: One, could Harris have “borrowed” the pistol and (2) did “hot” mean
“stolen.” This humble reporter's opinion is that Hauptmann Harris failed to prove that “hot” did not mean “stolen” although the
defense bettered the prosecution on the ethics of borrowing.

Quote: Lt. Harris on Cross-examination:
Question: “Who loaned it to you?”
Answer: silence... question repeated... “I borrowed it off the table.”
Question: “You took it off the table?” (The defense’s objection was sustained.)
Question: “Don’t you know that you have to borrow from someone?”
Answer: “No, not your roommate.”
Question: “Is the U. S. Government your roommate?”
Answer: “He’s my Uncle Sam.” (The Judge rapped for order amidst the boos and hisses.)

Having lost that point by acclamation, the prosecution then definitely proved that when Harris said the pistol was “hot,” he
meant “stolen.” Expert Ed Linker testified that in the language of the underworld, “hot” meant “stolen.” Harris later testified that
the pistol was near the radiator “and therefore hot” but his testimony was refuted by Lt. Hillier who declared that
it was produced from a trunk 15 feet away from the radiator.

The defense produced an expert witness in the person of Miss Mary Thompson who took the stand smartly dressed in
a dark dress with white trimmings, wearing a modernistic hat with a diamond brooch on the upturned front. She carried
a black handbag with white bead trimming and made a startling impression upon the jury. After establishing her competency as
a witness, Reilly Rogers produced the sick report of December 6th, 1934:
Question: “Miss Thompson, will you please read and identify this?”
Answer: “Charles Harris... Sore toe. This is the sick list for December 6.”

The question of the second charge then revolved around the point, was the sore toe a sufficient excuse? The defense
produced Dr. J. W. MacConnell who testified that the R.O.T.C. shoe might aggravate the sore toe. The prosecution objected on
the ground of the witness’ unfamiliarity with the R.O.T.C. shoe and pointed out that Harris went to basketball practice. More
testimony only brought out, again in the opinion of this still humble reporter, that a tennis shoe was more comfortable
than an R.O.T.C. shoe.

Other effective witnesses were Bill Brewer who sat by Harris in R.O.T.C. class and heard him say “I’d like to
have one of those pistols,” and Lt. Hillier whose testimony showed no inherent love for his roommate. Capt. Cochrane made
an excellent witness as did Sgt. Burton, who testified in an authoritative manner.

(Continued on Page 6, Column 4)

Managing Editors’ Duties To Appear
Information Furnished To Aid In Selecting Editors

Beginning with this issue of “The Davidsonian,” the first one of the second semester, a notice will be carried weekly
stating the duties of the managing editors for that particular issue. Paul Harlan was issue editor, or responsible in general,
for this week’s paper while Tom Marchant had charge of the front page; Martin Barnett, the third page; Lamont Brown,
sports section; Harvey Glass, the fifth page; Paul Harlan, the sixth page; and John Walker, assignment editor. All the managing
editors with the exception of Lamont Brown, who has charge of the sports the whole year, alternate with each issue.
This information is being made known to the student body so that when election time comes the students will be
able to a greater extent to determine the merits of each man and vote accordingly. All six of the above
mentioned will be eligible for editorship when the Spring elections take place.

FASHION NOTES
By COLLEGIATE DIGEST

POLO STYLE AGAIN
With the almost complete abandonment of the acceptability of the Chesterfield for dress and general wear, the six-button polo-coat style
overcoat is becoming more and more prevalent on college campuses. Done in Irish-homespun and tweeds, this model is following the
general style trend toward rougher fabrics and looser looking clothes. While it cannot serve in the dual capacities of dress
and general wear, as did the Chesterfield, it is much smarter and more appropriate for all other purposes. As the
homespun and tweeds are usually smarter in the top-coat weight fabrics, these fabrics are usually lined with a tan polo
type cloth or with a plaid wool lining to give them the warmth necessary for the colder weather.

MORE PLAIDS
The plaids seem to have invaded every article of the male dress, so it is only natural that the mufflers
of the season should come in all types of checks and varieties of plaids. And, of course, they're all wool.
It is predicted that these mufflers will soon become as important for winter dress as did the old solid-colored cashmere,
which has been out of the fashion picture for some years. However, the colorings in these plaids are of the
more neutral type, rather than of the over colorful variety.

Students Of Long Ago Were Ideal Collegians
(By Associated Collegiate Press)

New York City.—Students of the Eighties and Nineties were the “ideal” college men, Dean Herbert Hawkes of Columbia College, declared
here recently. The college students of that day were a picked group with a broader cultural background than those of
the present, Dean Hawkes pointed out. “It is safe to say that ten times as large a percentage of our
present population enters college as did at that time, with the inevitable lowering of the average of cultural background of
purely intellectual interests and knowledge subjects that comprised the course of study at that time.”

The attitude of the college toward the student at present was declared to be trying to reach the whole personality—mind,
body and spirit, while in the Nineties, the whole aim of college was the acquisition of knowledge which could be
gained through reading texts and listening to the professors lecture. Modern education is infinitely more suited to our present condition
than the former methods were, Dean Hawkes said.

Capt. F. M. Cochran, assistant professor of military science and tactics, was the speaker at the fifth meeting of the
Charlotte group school for inactive duty training of reserve officers. This was held last Thursday at eight o'clock, in the
courtroom of the Federal building. Capt. Cochran’s address concerned the present status of the Philippines under the recent act of
Congress providing for their independence in a certain number of years.

The January meeting of the American Legion Auxiliary, North Mecklenburg unit, was held at the Civic League hall with Mrs.
Ed. Linker presiding. Dr. J. M. McConnell, professor of history, was the speaker of the afternoon. His subject was “The
Legislative Objectives of the American Legion and Auxiliary.” Mrs. Ed Linker, president of the unit, then reported on the work
accomplished since last meeting. Mrs. Hamrick played two piano selections after which the hostesses, Mrs. George Watts, Mrs. Fulcher, and
Miss Margaret Adams served refreshments.

Mrs. Cloyd Goodrum and the Misses Thompson entertained at a tea in honor of a recent bride, Mrs. Wilbur Thompson.
Mr. and Mrs. Thompson will make their home on Concord Street.

Mrs. W. J. Spotts, of Dublin, Virginia, is spending a few weeks with her daughter, Mrs. Nelson Mebane.

Mrs. Mattie Burwell Murphy is spending the week with relatives in Greensboro.

The Tuesday Club met with Mrs. Frank Gaffney, January 22.

Thursday evening the “Kill Kare Klub” met with Miss Mary Black.

Prof. and Mrs. J. C. Pfohl and Mr. Warren Babcock spent Wednesday and Thursday at Chapel Hill.

Miss Mary Hamilton, who is teaching at Mebane, visited her mother, Mrs. Thomas Hamilton, this past weekend.

The Davidson High School completed its mid-year examinations Saturday, January 26. Several of the Davidson College seniors will begin their
periods of practice teaching this coming term.

Dean Rusk Wins Three Distinctions At Oxford

The “Statement for the Academic year 1933-34,” just published by the trustees of the Rhodes Scholarships, mentions three distinctions won
by Dean Rusk of Davidson. Of these his half blue in lacrosse and his degree with honors in Philosophy, Politics
and Economics have been mentioned in the Davidsonian, but the third is not generally known. The “statement” names Rusk as
the winner of the Cecil Peace Prize for 1933, awarded in an essay contest. The “Statement” also lists publications of
Rhodes Scholars during the academic year. Among these is Gibbon’s Antagonism to Christianity, by S. T. McCloy, Williams and Norgate,
London, 1933. McCloy, a Davidson alumnus, was appointed to a Rhodes Scholarship from Arkansas, entering Oxford in 1919. He is
now on the staff of Duke University.

Pat Crawford Chosen Rochester Club Head

Clifford, “Pat”, Crawford, a graduate of the Class of 1923, has recently received the appointment as manager of the Rochester
Baseball Club. The arrangements are not complete since Crawford is now suffering from an infection following an operation in Kinston,
North Carolina, and has not been able to sign the contract. Physicians give him a good chance to recover in
time to go South with the team for Spring training. While at Davidson he was captain of the baseball team,
president of the Y.M.C.A., All-State basketball and baseball player and a charter member of the local chapter of Phi Gamma
Delta social fraternity. While at the hospital he has received many communications andVisits from juvenile enthusiasts, Crawford having always been
interested in “sandlot” baseball. He was taken sick while lecturing on the recent World Series, in which he played a
part. For the past two years or more he has served as substitute first baseman and utility man for the
St. Louis Cardinals. His personal habits have always been exemplary and to this attending physicians give credit for his recovery.

SERVICE VARIETY HOTEL DAVIDSON QUALITY QUANTITY

Collegiate Tally Reveals Increase In Peace Movement Vote Taken From Four Hundred College Editors And Presidents Divided

ORGANIZATIONS ACTIVE Students Seeking Warless World, Editor Believes

(By Associated Collegiate Press) Madison, Wis.—Exact and definite proof that college students are becoming more active in peace movements was
gained here today when results of a questionnaire sent to college newspaper editors and presidents throughout the country by Collegiate
Digest and Associated Collegiate Press were tabulated. Approximately 400 college editors and presidents answered a series of questions on military
training and peace movements, and from their answers it was discovered that 120 college presidents and 131 college editors have
noticed a definite increase in sentiment in favor of peace movements. Fifty presidents and 56 editors did not feel there
was any noticeable increase in this respect. Conversely, only 15 presidents and 13 editors declared they noticed any increase in
sentiment for either compulsory or optional R.O.T.C.

More closely divided were both the editors and presidents on the question: Do you personally favor the entire abandonment of
military training on your campus? Answering in the affirmative were 27 presidents and 56 editors, while 35 presidents and 50
editors were opposed. R.O.T.C. is compulsory in 24 of the schools included in the poll, optional in 17, and not
given in 150, according to the editors, while gymnasium work is required at 147 institutions, optional in 28, and not
required in 15. Exactly 152 of the colleges represented by their editors are not obligated to the federal government to
maintain a military course, while the answers given by the presidents bring the total to 168.

Most prominent among the student organizations which tend to develop interest in peace movements are International Relations clubs, some of
them affiliated with the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace and others purely local. Fifty groups having this name were mentioned.
Other groups sponsoring peace movements and discussions are the League for Industrial Democracy, the National Students League, Peace societies, and
the United Front Against War. Also active in this respect are the Y.M.C.A. and the Y.W.C.A.

The military training question should be settled by a conference and vote of student governors and faculty, the majority of
the presidents feel. The editors are overwhelmingly in favor of submitting it to the entire student body. From the comments
given by both the editors and the presidents, it is apparent that there is a general widespread awakening of interest
on the part of college students towards discussions of the peace question. Peace speakers are well received, and according to
several of the answers received, students are reading extensively on the subject. “Locker room conversation frequently smacks of internationalism,” one
editor points out, while another says, “Peace is a popular bull-session subject, with much intelligent discussion of it.” This same
editor continues, “Upon the peace subject alone are the students beginning to get away from their provincialism and narrowness. They
are interested in a warless world and will work against R.O.T.C.”

Literary societies are giving more discussion to the question of peace, and chapel talks dealing with it are becoming more
popular, the editors claim. Outside speakers visiting the colleges are said to have been responsible for some of the newly
created interest on the part of the students. Through their editorial columns, many of the papers have brought problems of
peace to their readers, with the majority of the papers taking an anti-war stand. In contrast to those editors who
have noticed an increase in the sentiment for peace, the following comment was made: “There has been no increased sentiment
in favor of peace movements on our campus. In fact, the students are becoming more opposed to pacifism as concerned
with a defensive war, because of the manner in which pacifists carry out their campaign. We believe in peace, but
are not in favor of standing idly by while our country is open to invasion.”

(Continued on Page 6, Column 2)

Four Out of Five College Men Come To JOHNSON'S BARBER SHOP Good to the last drop!

YMCA Sends Out Many Deputations Men Sent To Charlotte, Statesville, And Huntersville

The Davidson “Y” has been exceedingly active in outside work during the last three weeks. Numerous deputations have been sent
to neighboring towns to hold “Y” meetings and to conduct religious services. On the second Sunday of Jan., Albert McClure
and Sid Marsh conducted an afternoon service at the Charlotte “Y”. Two were held: one for the younger men and
another for the older men. A large number attended the service. The following Sunday, Jan. 20, Ben Rose and Bill
Kiesewetter conducted this service. Last Sunday Ed Hodge and Bob Coit conducted the Charlotte “Y” service. Don Brandon had charge
of the service at the Front Street Church in Statesville on the evening of Jan. 20. During the month of
February the local “Y” plans to send a deputation to Huntersville each Sunday evening to hold a discussion of Dr.
Sweet’s book on religious education.

Prof. A. Currie Leads Vespers Stresses Need For Loyalty To God In Normal Times

Professor Archibald Currie, of the Davidson College Political Science Department, was the speaker at the Y.M.C.A. Vesper Service, Sunday, January
13. The service was opened with an organ prelude by Professor Pfohl. After the singing of the hymns, “Jesus Keep
Me Near the Cross” and “Sweet Hour of Prayer,” Oliver Anderson led in prayer. William Livingston then introduced Professor Currie,
who read for his scripture Isaiah 44:14-17. The whole thought of his message was drawn around the seventeenth verse: “And
the residue thereof he maketh a god, even his graven image; he falleth down unto it, and prayeth unto it,
and sayeth, Deliver me; for thou art my god.” He stressed the need of building up and realizing the need
of the residue so that when the time comes we won't have to bow down to gods we don’t know
like the man who filled his stomach and laid himself down before the fire, having no need for a god
until he fell into difficulties. This man, Prof. Currie pointed out, is very much like many modern men and women
of today who forget their god or think nothing of the need of a god until they have to call
upon him to relieve them of their troubles, and then have no residue from which to make their god because
they have not sought out the true God and followed His teachings. He emphasized the fact that we must not
put our God aside or forget about Him, but we should follow His teachings so that in a time of
need we will not be forced to build a false god of whom we know nothing about, in the effort
to be saved from a disaster.

Freshman Class Votes For Yearbook Sponsor

In the meeting of the Freshman class held after chapel last Monday, Bob Coit, the advisor of the class, presided.
The meeting was called to discuss the plans of the class for a sponsor in the college annual this coming
year. It was decided that the class will have the sponsor if the required money can be raised by assessing
each member of the class. The sponsor will probably be Miss Judith Coit, the sister of Bob Coit.

RADIO PROGRAM PRESENTED HERE Program On January 28 Offers Highlights Of Campus News As Feature.

The regular weekly program broadcasted every Friday night at 9:00 o'clock from the auditorium of Chambers Building at Davidson College,
was sent over the air on January 18, 1935. The program opened with the familiar strains of “O Davidson,” with
Skip Brown announcing. First on the program, “Impromptu,” by Chopin, was given on the piano by Mrs. J. C. Pfohl,
guest soloist for the night. Following this, Frank Tucker sang two songs, “Little Brown Birds Singing,” by Wood, and “Perfect
Day,” by Bond. The third part of the program was a very interesting talk on Robert E. Lee, given by
Dr. T. W. Lingle. The occasion for the talk was Lee's birthday. The program closed with Mrs. J. C. Pfohl
playing “Chorale,” by Bach.

The next radio program, given on Jan. 25, 1935, opened with the playing of “O Davidson,” with Grier Martin announcing.
The first musical offering of the night was an organ solo by Kenneth Scott, “Meditation” from Thais, by Massenet. Continuing
the musical portion of the program, two flute solos were played by Donald Pfohl, freshman at Davidson. The first was
“Arabesque,” by Catherine, and the next was “The Idylle,” by Godard. Mrs. J. C. Pfohl was the accompanist. Following this,
Capt. Norton G. Pritchett, director of athletics and professor of physical education at Davidson, gave a short talk on “The
Place of Athletics in Education.” The college broadcast has added a new feature to its program this week. It plans
to bring you each week news from the Davidson Campus. Many of our listeners have a personal interest in Davidson,
so for this reason it will inaugurate this new portion on its regular weekly broadcast. This past week's news was
as follows: Davidson College students ended on the twenty-sixth, their ten-day examination period, and Monday morning started on the second
semester of the 1934-35 session. Dr. Robert H. Roth, noted traveler and speaker, will deliver an illustrated lecture on “Alaska”
in the auditorium of the Chambers Building, Monday night at 7:00 o'clock. Joseph Brinkman, internationally known pianist, will give a
recital at Davidson on Tuesday, Feb. 12th, as the second feature of the concert series which is being presented this
year by the music department at Davidson. Davidson's varsity basketball team leaves here Monday for a trip through South Carolina
and Georgia, playing Wofford, Oglethorpe University, the Atlanta “Y”, and the Jewish Progressive Club. Following the high spots in the
week's news at Davidson, Kenneth Scott concluded the half-hour program with the selection, “Liebestraum,” by Liszt on the organ.

Dr. J. L. Douglas Unable To Resume His Duties

Professor J. L. Douglas has been absent from the faculty for the past few weeks and will be unable to
conduct his classes for the remainder of the year, due to a general run-down condition. Professor Wood has been teaching
his mathematics four, and Professor Mebane his Mathematics three and two. Both Professor McGavock and Mebane have been teaching his
mathematics one class. One of his mathematics two classes has been disbanded and divided up into Professor Mebane and McGavock’s
class.

The As You Like It Club held its annual business meeting Friday, January 25, at the home of Mrs. F.
L. Jackson.

YOU'LL BE HAPPY Shorts... Shirts Union Suits IN HANES! P. H. HANES KNITTING COMPANY WINSTON-SALEM
