THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 12, 1935

The Davidsonian
Founded by the Class of 1915

1935 Member 1936
Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Printed by the QUEEN CITY PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate year.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879.

ARTICLES FOR PUBLICATION must be in the hands of Managing Editors by 4:00 o'clock p.m., Monday. Letters to the Editor
are welcome, but all communications intended for publication must be signed.

LAMONT BROWN
Editor

R. P. MORROW, Jr.
Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
SPENCER KING Managing Editor
HOWELL SOVERTON Managing Editor
HAROLD SUGG Managing Editor
DAY ACONDES Managing Editor
JOHN WINGATE Managing Editor
HARRY KUYKENDALL Sports Editor
MARTIN GARNETT Associate Editor
HARVEY GLASS Associate Editor
PAUL HARLAN Associate Editor
TOM MARCHANT Associate Editor
JOHN WALKER Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
BOB HOUSE Circulation Manager
CHARLES MAUZE Circulation Manager
BILL SWOPE Circulation Manager
HOKE ROBINSON Advertising Manager
BING HIBBARD Collection Manager
BILL DAVER Assistant Business Manager

THURSDAY, DECEMBER 12, 1935

Iron sharpeneth iron; so a man sharpeneth the countenance of his friends.—Prov. 27:17.

AN ACKNOWLEDGEMENT

Student Body of Davidson College, Davidson, N. C.

Dear Boys:—

Your kind expressions of sympathy are gratefully acknowledged and deeply appreciated. Your thoughtfulness meant much to us during our recent
sorrow. We shall cherish among our memories Mack Wilson's many friends made during his short but happy stay at Davidson
College. He found great pleasure in relating the interesting instances and pleasant happenings there. His brief life was true to
the high ideals for which he stood, and in his passing he has left us a deep thought for constant
meditation—“Live ready to answer the last call without a moment's warning.”

Our home is open at all times to the Davidson boys whom we will be glad to know.

Yours truly,
Gastonia, N. C.
Mr. and Mrs. H. B. Little
Miss Janice Little

PARAGRAPHICS

Coach “Doc” Newton, genial Davidson mentor, was reported as saying after the Davidson-Wake Forest contest that he had never coached
a team that lost the final game of the season. We hope he never does.

Dormitory feuds are apparently very contagious. West and East acquired the germ from Georgia and Watts, but it didn’t seem
to become active until about two o'clock Tuesday morning. We can very readily see, now, why nations sometimes get into
war with one another.

This is the last issue of the Davidsonian before Christmas, so the staff takes this opportunity to wish every reader
the happiest possible yuletide vacation, and to remind you that we will be back with you on January 8th with
the first edition of the new year.

MERRY CHRISTMAS AND A HAPPY NEW YEAR TO YOU ALL.

SOUTHERN CONFERENCE

Time honored, along with many other old questions on the Davidson campus, is the hope and possibility of a place
in the Southern Interscholastic Conference, composed of colleges from Maryland, North Carolina, South Carolina, and Virginia. This question is again
pertinent in the minds of many Wildcats as the annual meeting of this association is to convene in Richmond, Va.,
Friday of this week. Optimism seems to prevail as the time for verdict draws near. Last year it was reported
after the meeting that Davidson had been accepted by the members, but no invitations would be issued until after this
year’s session with the expectation that some other school or schools might be accepted and all would be admitted at
the same time. This very reliable announcement coupled with the hope that Captain Norton Pritchett, who for several years as
athletic Director at Davidson made earnest and fruitful efforts to get a place for Davidson on the roll of the
Southern Conference, and will this winter, sitting as a member of the group from the University of Virginia, exert considerable
influence for Davidson, gives sufficient backing for the brightly hopeful attitudes of Davidson supporters.

Many questions, however, will no doubt be raised by both Davidson enthusiasts and the officials of institutions now in the
association. Davidsonians will probably wonder what benefit Davidson would derive from a place among the Southern Conference group. The interrogation
could be very easily dismissed with the lone reply that it would be an asset for prestige in the athletic
world. Too many years Davidson has had teams that ranked right along with the best of any school now in
the SIC, but simply because they were unable to make any claim of a title or have their name appear
in the list of ratings she has gone unsung, except in the immediate confines of the state. Therefore, we say
that admittance to the Southern Conference would bring to Davidson a recognition of team and individual athletics that is deserved
and needed.

On the other hand, some association members may inquire as to the grounds on which Davidson feels qualified to take
a place among the other teams in the league. To answer such an inquiry I would simply name the schools
that are now in the group and ask you to compare their records over a period of, say, five years,
with those of Davidson for the same period. I feel quite confident that Davidson would match victory for victory and
maybe come out a few ahead in comparison with either Virginia, V. M. I., W & L, V. P. I.,
South Carolina, or N. C. State. She wouldn’t drop so far below Clemson and Maryland, and the University of North
Carolina and Duke couldn’t exactly be considered out of her class. These Colleges may be a good bit larger than
Davidson, which many believe would put them in a class above, but to any reasonable logic the conclusion should yield
a desire for quality rather than quantity. And I don’t have the slightest idea that those member-schools could ever one
time question successfully the quality of either Davidson’s teams or the sportsmanship they display.

I believe that before another month has bade farewell to the calendar that Davidson will have been issued a bid
to join the Southern Interscholastic Conference, and I am positive she can fill a place justly and creditably.

PRESS FREEDOM

The Conference of College Editors, which met in New York the latter part of week before last, closed its three
days of hectic discussion with the proposal of tentative plans for the formation of an organization of collegiate editors who,
united by a common desire, will work relentlessly for freedom of the collegiate press. Such an organization of student editors
has never been attempted before in this country. Yet, in the light of the events of the past months, its
formation was inevitable. The first suppression of collegiate publication that brought forth storms of protest from other college editors, particularly
those in the Middle West, the Big Ten editors, was the incident at Louisiana State University when the editor and
several other students were removed by Senator Huey P. Long. This coupled with the affair at the University of California
at Los Angeles awakened students generally to the fact that college administrations DO work gross injustices on their student bodies.
The aftermath of the Peace demonstration of last April 12 reinforced this idea in the student mind. The behavior of
President Ruthven of the University of Michigan was deplored and heartily condemned by editors in colleges all over the country.
The attitude of President Hutchins toward the disturbance raised by Mr. Wahlgreen was a source of great inspiration to the
collegiate press which already had begun to feel a common interest drawing its members together. Scattered happenings of this fall,
combined with all that has gone before, moved thirteen of the twenty-three editors present in New York to come into
closer union. The weekly news-release which membership in the new organization carries with it is only a fixture; it is
only one of the benefits of belonging. The main purpose toward which the group will work is freedom of the
press. A collegiate press limited only by the laws of libel. A collegiate press that is tactful, to be sure,
but one that is unafraid of administration rebuke. Moral and editorial support from editors all over the country when one
editor is unjustly suppressed or individual students are causelessly expelled will lend strength to the movement. Student thought on world-wide
matters and affairs of national interest, both socially and economically, will expand. And the idea current in administration circles that
there are matters—peace, the Olympics, race—that students take no active part in and therefore should have no interest, even editorially,
may become a relic of the past.

The new movement is not yet completely organized; its methods are not yet fully determined; its power is not yet
fully tried. But its objective is firmly fixed; its development is certain. And its success, as measured by the determination
and earnestness of its founders, is without question.

—The Agonistic

DAVIDSON OFF THE RECORD

by HAROLD SQUEAKS AND SLURPS FROM RATS AND PURPS

Purging this review-charged atmosphere and brightening a peaceful campus each year is this traditional upheaval, powerful and partisan, when Watts
dormitory gets up enough courage to assert equality with the aristocratic rats of Georgia. As this is written the immortal
game is not writ in the record but if when you are scanning the sheet Watts dormitory has meritoriously backed
her claim, then sad columnist will be wearing a freshman cap, along with Harpo Harlan and Carl Carlson. If, however,
Georgia has made good her boasts and asserted her superiority, none others than Cokey Branton, Flip Cathey and Hoxie Thompson
will similarly bow in acknowledgment of the puerility inherent in Watts Dormitory. And ye columnist will be once more the
proud cynical penster.

SHADES OF SELASSIE

This embroglio has all the earmarks of a baby war. Foolhardy statesmen create the breach and hotheaded and coldblooded jingoists
(we blush) stir up the passions while the poor illusioned players sally forth as cannon fodder: cheese for the rats
or tea for the slurpers. Why not extend this thing? Let the twain of East meet the twain of the
West, and North and South refight the Civil War.And then we may quiver in apprehension of the Herculean struggle between
Rumple and the Library.

CAMPUS PLUTO-PLUTOCRATS

Pross SUGG Numbers Seven and Eight; Mal Grimes and Prosser Morrow, whose naive visages (taken last year before they became
pluto plutocrats) you see gaping at you. Grimes is the financial backer for Martin Barnett’s annual remarks while Mar “Weakly”
Merrow stands behind the Davidson Weakly. They are both arch-plutocrats and both have made affiliations with Kappa Sigma. From past
plutocrats: Cokey and Martin to fly home Christmas. Graft Zeppelins.

PET PREJUDICES

“Annually” Northern imitations of Southern... Never ending tap dances on pianos, stairs and stuff... Imitations of trains... Hill-billy programs... People
who sing with Radios and vitaphones... Nonents who can’t think without talking... Why can’t an advertiser think of just having
an orchestra play without toastmaster? There’s a certain cigarette that advertises as not getting on one’s nerves. But how that
advertisement does. Suggestion: That all athletes before being declared eligible sign as to their toothpaste, soap, cereal, and hair tonic.

INFO FOR THE FROSH

Before going home for the holidays as “Collich Boys” we deem it wise to touch off the knowledge of the
freshman. So we have opened up this department. Already we have received two letters.

“Dear Off the Record: The Phi is Philanthropic but what do Eumenean by Eumenean? Signed, Ollie Frosh.”

Dear Ollie: Another pun like that and you'll be writing this column.”

“Dear Off the Record: Why do they call the annual Quips and Cranks?” Signed, “Joe Fresh.”

Dear Joe: Because it is composed of students and professors.

DRIBBLE

WE PREDICT: Joe Saunders for Mid-Winters. Billy Mickley takes great interest in the motion picture business. Loyd Phooeystenberger won't talk,
Sky Cline, Charles Hamrick and Krupps Krunchy Krispies Krisp gather at the Limestone Terem. ‘Coot’ Gladden makes success at last.
Max Brittain and Echoes are voices.

AROUND WASHINGTON

By ARNOLD SERWER (Associated Collegiate Press Correspondent)

Washington, D.C.—One of Harry Hopkins’ brightest young men is 27-year-old Dallas Dort, head of the Works Progress Administration's newly enlarged
Division of Investigation. Dort, as division head, is charged with investigating all complaints made of misuse of any part of
the $4,800,000 work relief fund. In the entire work set-up there is probably no more involved and complex job. The
boss of the “W” men, however, is enthusiastic about the work. “It’s darned interesting,” he says. “There’s something popping up
every minute.” The things that “pop-up” range from complaints of selling of jobs by officials to relief people to direct
misappropriation of funds or misuse of WPA equipment. Every complaint is investigated at first hand by a “W” man sent
out from some one of the division’s 15 regional offices. If the division thinks they have sufficient evidence to convict
the evidence is turned over to the Department of Justice, or sometimes to local authorities for prosecution.

In order to be considered eligible for appointment as a “W” man an applicant must be either a lawyer, a
trained accountant, or an engineer. If you're a double or triple threat man, that is, if you have either two,
or all three kinds of training, so much the better. Former Secret Service men, or former G-men, with the aforementioned
requisites, are especially eligible. The present staff had a large number of former Secret Service men and former special agents
of the Department of Justice on it. All in all, more than 50 additional investigators have been hired by Dort
in the past two months.

Dort, himself, is by training a lawyer. After taking his A.B. at Princeton in 1930, he entered Michigan to study
law. In 1933 he left Michigan, with an LL.B. degree. At Princeton he was affiliated with Phi Delta Phi, a
legal fraternity. For a short time he was in business in California, managing a hotel. In the fall of 1933
he came to Washington and was hired by the FERA to help the Compensation section work out plans to make
restitution to FERA workers injured while employed on work relief projects. From that post he was transferred to the job
of keeping tabs on the administrative end of various statistical projects, which formed an important part of the white-collar section
of the job-giving program. About a year ago Dort began running the FERA’s Division of Investigation. At that time many
of the component parts of the FERA had their own individual investigators, aside from their regular field men who checked
on the progress of the program. With the launching of the WPA these units were coordinated into the present division,
headed by Dort.

At 27, with a $4,000 yearly salary, and the status of a WPA division chief (which incidentally would call for
a much larger salary in almost any other New Deal agency) Dallas Dort is just beginning to go places. His
youth, coupled with a faint suggestion of shyness, gives him an appealing and extremely likable personality. That comparative oldster, Dr.
Tugwell, if he ever met Dort might well be imagined as saying, “Yessir, I was as young as that once.”

Random Note... somewhere in this fair land of ours is a young G-man, possibly hot on the trail of a
public enemy, while unbeknownst to him another young man, employed by the Government here, is considering having a second G-man
put on the trail of the first one. For it seems that the G-man, suddenly ordered away to parts unknown,
forgot to return to the aforesaid young man, his former roommate, seven dollars he borrowed from him. Moreover, he also
borrowed the roommate's valise. The roommate says the G-man did not behave with criminal intent, but merely in keeping with
the habits he observed in him when they roomed together in college. He says J. Edgar Hoover ought either to
recall the culprit, or send somebody out to bring him in. “Karpis can wait,” he said, in effect. “I want
my suitcase, and my seven dollars!”

Compare The NEWS From DAVIDSONIANS of Years Gone By

FIVE YEARS AGO

The first of the series of Ott’s Lectures for this year is given here by Dr. H. E. Kirk. His
theme for the series of five talks is “Man’s Place in Nature”... Dean Rusk and Tom Hill are announced as
winners in Semi-Final competition for Rhodes Scholarships. They will appear, along with candidates from other colleges in this district before
the regional committee in Atlanta soon, where the four men will be chosen to represent this district at Oxford... Debating
tryouts will be held December 16... Rev. J. E. McGregor of Lexington speaks at vespers... Y.M.C.A. Gift Fund for Barium
Springs gets underway.

TEN YEARS AGO

Dr. Edward Mack speaks at Phi Beta Kappa initiation on Sacrificial Learning... Coach Monk Younger is chosen as coach of
Mythical All-State team by Raleigh News and Observer... 81 Freshmen pledged by eleven fraternities on the hill. There were 103
bids issued to 90 freshmen... Glee Club gives concert at Queens... Coach Younger starts work with Basketball men after early
work under Hengeveld... 40 freshmen report for Freshman Basketball... “Y” vesper service next week features music by the Glee Club...
Davidson college broadcasts program over Station WBT... 21 receive football letters for work this year... Robert Franklin, '23, wins Rhodes
scholarship. Lucien Wells chosen as captain of 1926 football team.

TWENTY YEARS AGO

30 men win football letters... Sophomores win class basketball series. Freshmen elect J. W. McAllister class president. Hermann Best at
the Myers Park.

ADD PP’s: The guy who hollers “Good Night Everybody?” Tobie Conyers and John Sadler: Hooded Men on the night of
a robbery. EVERY fraternity can be bought and the Phi Delts have their Price. Knorr is frozen out by the
blond blizzard. In the interest of a-waning Plutocracy we might suggest that the publication managers be given something to Plutocrat
upon. With three publications barely struggling to clear the red the poor would-be Plutocrats are as futile as a stinging
editorial about the weather.

Collegiate Ramblings

WHAT, NO LISTERINE...?

Then, according to the REFLECTOR, there is the Mississippi State collegian who smokes “ends” (“ducks” to you) so much that
he smells like other people's breath.

NOT TO BE READ...

“Censors: Please don’t print this unless you are sure nothing will happen to your beloved correspondent. Someone told me that
he knows someone who is well acquainted with the person who knows quite well the person who knows best a
certain freshman girl who came home one night and asked her roommate, ‘Did you know John Doe is growing a
mustache. Boy! It sure tickles!’” The Hastings Collegian.

ORTHOGRAPHY...

From the same source comes that classic of phonetic spelling. In case you haven't heard it, we present: GHOUGH-PTEIGHTTEAU. The
gh stands for p as in “hiccough,” the ough for o as in “dough,” pt for t as in “pteridophyte,”
eigh for a as in “neigh,” tte for t as in “cigarette,” eau for o as in “beau.” Put them
together and you have “potato.”

AND THE RELIEF...

From Washington and Lee comes the “morning after” suggestion that NYA men be put to work teaching dancing to the
freshman class... The same columnist warns his readers that “Esquire” features the tie-em-yourself variety of evening tie, warns that the
ready-made brands present a sad appearance.

A MATTER OF INTERPRETATION...

At one of our eastern colleges recently the professor was unable to stay for class so he placed a sign
on his door which read as follows: “Mr. Coles will be unable to meet his class today.” Some college lad
seeing a chance to display his sense of humor, after reading the notice, erased the letter “C” from in front
of “classes.” The professor, noticing the laughter, wheeled around, walked back, looked at the sign, looked at the boy; he
then calmly erased the “L” in “lasses” and walked away. —The Ring-Tum-Phi.

Doug Neal produces one about how does a duck smell. The insipid answer is not through his nose but foul.
But Tyler Port tells us one about the man who slipped upon a banana and hasn't banana where since.

No more columns until next year. And are you happy?
