THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 13, 1935

Council Dances Well Attended
(Continued from Page 1)

A multitude of beautiful girls appeared from ports far and near; the rhythmical and entertaining music of Jimmie Poyner and his orchestra still echoes in the ears of many; memories of Keith Scales singing, the good times had by all—blending in color and beauty with last weekend flit before one’s eyes; all made to appear and disappear as if by the magic touch of the Pan-Hellenic Council. Davidson's Homecoming Dances began under the sponsorship of the Pan-Hellenic Council on Friday evening, the 8th. The night was filled with a formal dance, accommodating many seekers. The crowd began to appear quite early in the ballroom of the Hotel Charlotte, and grew very rapidly with the dance ending at two o'clock. Due to the Duke-Davidson football game, no Saturday afternoon tea dance was held. Saturday night an informal dance in the main dining room of the Hotel Charlotte was given, lasting from eight-thirty until twelve o'clock. After the dance Saturday, many of the guests had breakfast at various hotels and restaurants in Charlotte. Music for the dances was furnished by Jimmie Poyner and his orchestra from State College who have recently completed engagements at several well-known summer resorts, among them Virginia and Myrtle beaches. Accompanying the orchestra was Keith Scales, vocalist, whose selections added much to the enjoyment of all. The old custom of having four no-breaks at each dance was continued, and all football players who played against Duke were admitted to the Saturday night dance as guests of the Pan-Hellenic Council. The ten social fraternities were hosts to a large number of guests, alumni, and visitors who thronged the campus, with approximately twelve different states represented. Among the girls down on fraternity bids for the weekend were: Beta Pi, Eleanor Mathason, Jane Asbury, and Sally Couch of Charlotte, Florence Brittain and Margaret Britts of Asheboro, Mildred Troxler and Catty Walker of Burlington, Mary Miller of Winston-Salem, Pauline Neisler, King’s Mountain; Johnson City, Tenn. Pi Kappa Alpha: Nancy Pat Hamilton, Oakhill, W. Va.; Helen Grady, Concord; Mary Daniels, Gaffney, S. C.; Sue Renfrow, Mathews; Frances Hummel, Caroline Hinkle, Charlotte; Martha Willeford, Danville, Va.; Wilfred Schlosser, Greensboro; Kit Ward, Southern Pines; Alene Hester, Goldston; Elizabeth Arnold, Durham; Eleanor Newman and Anna Watkins, Salisbury; Babe Hoover, Alice Cline, Caddie Willis and Betty Fisher, Concord. Kappa Alpha: Mary Sanders, Roxboro; Martha Bratton, York, Kitty Foster, Columbia; Sara Crosby, Chester, S. C.; Louisa Rankin, Fayetteville; Cornelia Maslin, Winston-Salem; Mary Frances Ehrlich, Chester, S. C.; Theta Holman, Taylor, Louise Prease, Frances Powell, Hollywood, Cal.; Mary Whitmore and Helen Walker, Charlotte. Kappa Sigma: Anne Thompson, Margaret Amos, Katherine Hill, Laura Coit, Elizabeth Higgins, Richmond, Va.; Jean Abbot, Wilson; Katherine O'Farrell, King’s Mountain; Babs MacDowell, Gaffney; Marguerite Mann, High Point; Etta Warren, Wilson; Jean Robinson, Lowell; Flora Coker, Hartsville, S. C.; Anita Smith, Gastonia; Elizabeth Walker, Rockingham; Joan Preston, Columbia, S. C.; Ripple Woodin, Greensboro; Nina Pinton, Salem, N. J.; Hybernia Hassell, McAllen, Texas; Betty Hombright, Rock Hill; Marvin Gorret, Greensboro; Chich Barring, Johnny Walker, Joan Pierce, Lili Gormon, Charlotte. Sigma Phi Epsilon: Eleanor Kerchner, Greensboro; Sara Henderson, Paul Procter, Florence, S. C.; Jean Orr, Mildred Young, Charlotte; Wynelle Taylor, Henrietta Waycross, Ga.; Eliza Lewis, Oxford; Adele Powell, Henderson; Elizabeth Dudley, Augusta, Ga.; Hargreaves, Ga.

Students Pause In Memory As Armistice Is Observed
(Continued from Page 1)

Dr. Walter L. Lingle, the president of the college, spoke to the student body, reminding them of the great horrors and losses of the war and challenging them to find a new, more intelligent and Christian way to settle international controversies. He said that the World War was fought with two objectives in view: to make the world safe for democracy, and to end all wars. Neither of these goals was attained, for the world today is much more autocratic and less democratic than before the War, and far more war-like than ever before in the memory of the present generation. He closed by reminding his audience that Armistice Day is set aside as a holiday not to glorify war, but to seek after World Peace. Davidson College had one of the 550 Students’ Army Training Corps which were established in the fall of 1918. All the men—eighteen years old or over, enrolled in the college for that term, who were physically fit, became members of the Corps. Academic work was considered of secondary importance during this period, and military science and tactics were put in the fore. After the signing of the Armistice, the enthusiasm disappeared and the unit was demobilized on December 10, 1918. The college records show that 735 students and alumni of Davidson entered the service, not including the 223 men in the Students’ Army Training Corps. Of this number (959) twenty men died on the field of battle or in camp hospitals: Edgar B. Anderson, '15; Joseph S. Bachman, '18; Samuel C. Baker, '18; Pressley R. Brown, '06; Thomas M. Bulla, '07; Reid D. Cranford, '19; James M. Douglas, '10; Samuel C. Keesler, '17; Charles D. Montgomery, '09; Tazewell N. Morton, '18; Deane M. Orgain, '18; John C. Paisley, '17; David R. Poole, '19; Erwin D. Shaw, '15; Harry F. Shaw, '18; Frank H. Smith, '16; Frank M. Thompson, '08; John M. Wearn, '19; and George F. Worth, '11.

Davidson Wildcats Fall Under Strong Offense Of Mighty Blue Devils
(Continued from Page 4)

and Auburn, and reeled off great chunks of yardage that ultimately resulted in touchdowns. Davidson, although disheartened by bringing the ball back on Lafferty’s long run, played one of the headiest and most courageous games of the season against the superior and heavier Blue Devils. Although having one punt blocked, Paul Pittman kicked them far and wide to average over 46 yards. Duke piled up 12 first downs to Davidson’s 8.

Major G. H. Roeder Speaks On Sewage Disposal Plant
(Continued from Page 5)

products which are gotten from the sewage. Major Roeder expressed his appreciation to the Chemistry Department of the College for the help it has given him in his work. As soon as the plant is started, analyses will be made daily.in the Chemistry Laboratory to determine the efficiency of the plant. This will be known to be accurate and will be used in the advertising matter of the company which installed the plant.

Davidson Uses Movie Camera
(Continued from Page 5)

fall has proven very satisfactory, but through the use of a two-inch lens more area can be covered. Next year the new lens will be installed. Bill Lyons has been operating the machine which uses about 600 feet of film per game. After each contest, the pictures are shown to the team and Coach Newton comments on the action of his men. In the spring, the track team will use this new method to improve the strides and speed of their dash men, and the form of the weight and vault men.

Eta Sigma Phi Members Hear Harding Speak
(Continued from Page 5)

who vainly attempted to escape all words derived from classical languages, after a desperate flight could not find rest in annihilation—for that, too, is a Latin derivative!

Among the Greeks
(Continued from Page 5)

Alderman, Dan Franklin, John Porterfield, A. W. Caldwell, “Fuzzy” Graham, Van Patterson, John Boyd, “Chink” Thompson.

PHI GAMMA DELTA: Alumni up for Homecoming: Brook Allen, Mitchell Field, L. I.; Caleb West, Newport News, Va.; Charlie Baldwin, Charlotte; John Creech and John Foster, Winston-Salem; Payton Montgomery, Reidsville; George Gullette, Univ. of Va.; “Chuck” Wright, Knoxville, Tenn.; Gaither Jenkins, Winston-Salem; “Chip” Monroe, Fayetteville; Bill Northern, Atlanta, Ga.

PHI DELTA THETA: Alumni up for the game: Al Grant, High Point; George McClenagan, Duke Glasgow, Bob Glasgow, John Newton, Dick LeGrand, Paul Arrowwood, Shelby; “Hack” Sanders, Buddy Robinson, Bill McGeachy.

SIGMA PHI EPSILON: Alumni present for Homecoming: Charlie Yeager, Dick Sample, Hub Powell, Frank Taylor, Cal Kuykendall, “Mat” Study Is Made Of Student Expenses
(Continued from Page 5)

repaid or not, or if he earned any part of them himself. If he has to repay any of them, he was requested to put to whom they were owed, if they are not to be repaid he was asked to give the way they were obtained. The last question was if any earnings were made by the student last summer and this school session. This has been making other statistical experiments dealing with the batting averages of players in the American and National Leagues, the price of cotton, and the acreage of cotton. This class consists of the following men: Archie Shuford, Sid Marsh, Bob Lyerly, Ed Wooten, Joe McNabb, Alex Jowles, W. N. Newton, Hunter McClung, Billy Archer, Charlie Hamrick, and W. F. Pierce.

Sports Staccato
(Continued from Page 4)

Evidently he was speaking of Woody Burns. Physically, Duke seems heavier than UNC but as one student here said, “They haven't the spirit that Carolina has.” Had Lafferty’s touchdown play been good we believe the game would have been much closer, but whether he stepped out or not, the spectators were quick to realize that the officials were probably right as is the case 99 out of 100 times. It was a bitter pill though. Duke played rough it is true, but football is a rough game. We think the ’cats did well to stand up against a line which weighed to be much 194-pounds per man as against Davidson's 176-pounds. The Duke linesmen averaged approximately 6.1 feet in height. No wonder they snagged those passes.

A little incident happened in Greensboro Friday morning which we believe might afford a little interest although it is of no significance. Felix’s “ole man,” affectionately speaking, was visited by an official in Greensboro’s boxing circles and another person who wasn’t recognized at the time. The official—after pointing to his companion (a nicely dressed, clean-cut individual with what we might call “a very quick eye”) abandoned all formalities by questioning “do you know who this is?” “No, I don’t believe I do.” The official, already picturing the astonishment that would visit his friend, casually explained that he was favored by a visit from none other than Jack Dempsey in person. Dempsey smiling, extended a huge hand in greetings and explained that he was passing through Greensboro on business. “Sorry you aren’t back in the ring to fight Louis.” “Well—the years tell on us,” stated Dempsey. “When they take it away from us we can’t get it back.” Asked about Joe Louis, Jack explained that “Louis is a good fighter” but if someone with a hard punch and plenty of experience ever gets in the ring with him he'll probably go down. The old “Manassas Mauler” pointed out that “Braddock will give him (Louis) a whole lot better fight than people think. Braddock has a good heart and he’s a good fighter.”

100% Behind The Student Body
WHITE DRUG STORE
Exclusive Agency For Joan Manning Candies

S. C.; Elizabeth Bishop, Virginia McGowan, Frances Jolly, Kannapolis; Mary Mickly, Betty Simmons, Sybil Searcy, Mary Whalen and Sylvia Steel, Charlotte.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon: Jane Washhagen, Gastonia; Elizabeth Lucas, Greenville, S. C.; Jane Merrill and Catherine Ricks, Jackson, Miss.; Essie Davis and Martha Withers, Columbia, S. C.; Catherine Umback, Charleston, S. C.; Dolly Nicholson, Sweet Briar, Va.; Dee Armfield, Asheboro; Lula Durham; Ann Little, Marilyn Brittain, Marie Niekirk, and Mary Mickly, Charlotte.

Pi Kappa Phi: Dosty Blasjam, Rock Hill, S. C.; Mary Lib Moore, Charlotte; Mary Harris and Frances Weatherby, Wilmington; Mary Class Stokes, Wilson; Dot Bagley, Atlanta, Ga.; Shirley Peters and Anna May Feuchtenberger, Bluefield, W. Va.

Pi Gamma Delta: Mary Elizabeth Stone, Boston, Mass.; Adel Jenness, Brenau College; Martha Crosland, Bennettsville, S. C.; Judith Bailey and Helen Margaret Wooten, Chattanooga, Tenn.; Esther Hambley, Salisbury; Emma Reann Jones, Charlotte; Caroline Horton and Blevens Vogler, Winston-Salem; Dot Clendenin, Dot “Tut” Gorrell, “Teet” Hendrix, Jones, Greensboro.

Phi Delta Theta: Polly Pinner, Suffolk, Va.; Margaret Wardlaw, Columbia, S. C.; Isabel Lane, Talladega, Ala.; Mary Poyner, Raleigh; Annie Stale, Rockingham; Emily Matheson, Atlanta, Ga.; Alene Fluker, Hendersonville; “Jimmie” Wagoner, Shelby; Gwen Coleman, Florence, S. C.; “Happy” Coleman, Florence, S. C.; Annette Childs, Lincolnton; Dixie Lyons, Florence, S. C.; Margie Peters, Jacksonville, Fla.; Eleanor Southgate, Rilma Wilkerson, Elizabeth Creech.

They do say they’re milder and taste better
© 1935, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.
and I’ve heard tell they satisfy