2 THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 20, 1935

There has been a marked trend away from the cut and dried educational formulas and an increasing demand for courses
that have, not only cultural, but practical advantages—a "carry over value."

OUR COMPASSING CONTEMPORARIES

Founded by the Class of 1915

MEMBER
Associated Collegiate Press
WISCONSIN

Published Weekly "For a Better Davidson"
Printed by the QUEEN CITY PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate year.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879.

ARTICLES FOR PUBLICATION must be in the hands of Managing Editors by 4:00 o'clock p.m., Monday. Letters to the Editor
are welcome but all communications intended for publication must be signed.

K.D. WEEKS ........ Editor
J. A.C. WADSWORTH ... Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
Martin Barnett Managing Editor
Paul Haran Managing Editor
Tom Marchant Managing Editor
John Walker Managing Editor
Harvey Glass Managing Editor
Lamont Brown Sports Editor
Ed Bowles Exchange Editor
Carlyle Lewis Feature Editor
Scotty McLeod Feature Editor
G. L. Gutterrez Associate Editor
E. F. McPhail Associate Editor
B. L. Rose Associate Editor
Jack Heurncer Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
J. B. Gosten Asst. Business Mgr.
Val Cassels Asst. Business Mgr.
Tom Ross Asst. Business Mgr.
J. S. McMurtian Asst. Business Mgr.
P. Morrow Asst. Business Mgr.

Our Trustees doubtless considered this when they added the Department of Music. The great success of this department not only
justifies any expenditure entailed, but will suggest to the thoughtful observer the vast student interest in what might for want
of a better name, be termed the not strictly scholastic departments of education. It should also indicate the reception which
would be accorded a department or chair of Journalism. The addition of such a course would by no means mean
an encroachment on the fields of professional schooling. It would however offer a breadth of experience and training that would
prove of value to men in any walk of life. For, aside from the stereotyped formula of the news-story and
the vocabulary-building impossibility of the "heads," Journalism teaches modern English in its most usable form. It engenders a command of
words which should prove equally beneficial to businessman or clergyman, lawyer or doctor, to anyone who plans to enter professional
or vocational life. The clear and exact meaning in the fewest possible number of words is the journalist’s goal. And
wherever there is need for the use of written or spoken English the three "C’s" of Journalism may be of
help—Clarity, Conciseness, and Correctness.

Last year the staff of this paper went on record as being unanimously in favor of a Department of Journalism.
That resolution still stands. Doubtless there are many others who would like to continue or undertake work in this field.
We already have the laboratory and feel that we would benefit by even part-time instruction in this field. Why not
give Journalism at least a trial?—D. T.

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 1935

Men and nations can only be reformed in their youth; they become incorrigible as they grow old—Rousseau.

Test Your Steam-Pressure!
Editorial on the Value of Extra-Curricular Activities
By Captain Norton G. Pritchett

THE DAVIDSONIAN AND JOURNALISM

Davidson’s claim to recognition and whatever fame she may enjoy rests entirely on those extra-curricular activities in which she comes
in contact with other schools or the world outside. Her vaunted reputation for sportsmanship has been gained by her athletic
teams. Her Y. M. C. A. has stimulated interest in the field of social service. The literary societies and debating
team have fostered interest in forensic matters. An adequate coaching staff supervises the efforts of all athletic teams. A competent
“Y” secretary directs religious and social missions. One of our professors, who has himself had training in that field, has
given without stint of his time and talent to the preparation of a debating team. But The Davidsonian—? Is it
not strange that the one medium by which all these accomplishments are recorded, the college weekly which goes to all
undergraduates and hundreds of friends and alumni throughout the country, the journal which through its exchanges reaches in one week
more campuses than all our teams visit within a school year, is it not strange that The Davidsonian does not
have the service of even a part-time faculty director?

This is not an attempt to apologize for the glaring errors which sometimes creep into this publication, or even the
less noticeable ones which frequently occur. No one is more painfully conscious of these errors than the members of the
staff, and no one is more eager to avoid or correct them. Each year between thirty and forty men serve
the editorial staff in various capacities. The reporters, drawn from the two lower classes, comprise more than half of this
number, and of these a majority are freshmen with no previous journalistic training or experience. These men serve anonymously and
ask for no other reward than a place on the staff. Willingness, unfortunately, however, does not make up for the
lack of experience, or zeal for lack of training; hence many of the errors which subject us to criticism.

The high rating which this paper has been accustomed to receive from the national accrediting agencies shows clearly the amount
of journalistic talent which may be found in the student body. What we are trying to express in these few
lines is a plea for the opportunity to develop this talent. If our predecessors have done so well under handicaps,
what might we not dare to hope for those who come after, should they be given the benefit of proper
guidance? Surely, no member of the college administration would dream of sending an uncoached football team onto the field. Yet
the status of The Davidsonian is analogous to that of a football team that without any coaching, other than that
given by its members, attempts to compete with a large number of highly trained squads.

Within the past few years all of the so-called “liberal arts colleges” have moved towards the establishment of more widely
varied curricula. There has been a marked trend away from the cut and dried educational formulas and an increasing demand
for courses that have, not only cultural, but practical advantages—a "carry over value."

Perfect contentment may be good for Carnation Cows, but it should never be permitted to cloud the vision of intelligent
humans who have other purposes and objectives. Therefore, in complying with a request that I venture into the editorial column,
I have but one hope in mind—to provoke reaction at a time when the temptation is to rest on our
oars, now that examinations are over and the “rough winds of winter do shake the darling buds of May.” If
my gentle suggestive zephyr may awaken any “darling buds” now sleeping in hot-houses of complacency, I am willing to weather
whatever chill of indifference may follow.

Davidson has just cause for pride in her splendid traditions that make every student a potential heir of all that
can characterize manhood at its best. I believe I am not unduly biased in saying that I cannot conceive of
any institution that has a more friendly atmosphere, a better “spirit,” or finer men than may be found on its
campus; nor do I know of any institution where a greater proportion of the student body participates in wholesome campus
activities. If this is the case, then, why say more? The answer is—let’s talk less and less about our virtues
and more and more about what may yet be done.

My hobby is athletics or Physical Education, so I am perhaps inclined to over-emphasize this phase of college life. I
shall, however, at least try to keep within sensible bounds while dreaming and seeing visions. Is it reasonable to predict
that the day will come when every student in Davidson College will devote himself unremittingly to one or more campus
activities in ways that broaden sympathy and understanding, while contributing in even greater measure than now to Davidson’s welfare. Surely
no student has reason to hold himself in great esteem merely because he is making passing marks, for “making the
grade” in college can mean that the mental digestive system is no stronger than it was in high school, even
if it does hold more. Am I reasonable, then, in predicting that some truly representative form of extra-curricular activity will
eventually be required by practically all educational institutions? Perhaps that may come, but will it not always be true that
initiative can best be developed without compulsion and that the man who follows interest-consuming activities of his own volition derives
more benefit therefrom than would be the case under pressure. We need not follow Henry Drummond’s statement literally—“Unless a man
undertakes to do more than he possibly can do, he will never do all that he can do”—because there is
such a thing as over-diversified interests that may weaken true purpose and accomplishment. On the other hand, there are several
extra-curricular activities on our campus that are truly representative in the sense that Davidson College is definitely served by those
who devote themselves to such interests. Undeniably such men are contributing immeasurably to their own development while thus serving Davidson.

Let's be more specific and take a picture: Suppose Davidson had no publications board, no musical organizations of any kind,
no forensic activities, no Y. M. C. A. interests, no student government, no athletic teams; in short, no activities aside
from classroom work. Would you, as students, find under such conditions an atmosphere so conducive to...

By Ed Bowles

W & L Eco Class Goes Steinish

The Gertrude Stein influence has at last reached the classroom. A student took some economics notes and here’s how they
looked: “A bill of exchange is a bill of exchange is an order of the drawer through the drawee to
the payee in pounds for dollars dollars for pounds Britain pounds are backed by gold pounds are gold dollars are
gold. The President fixes gold you can fix gold does gold need fixing why fix it we never use it...”
and so on and so on.

VPI To Have Mid-Winters

The annual mid-winters will take place this Friday and Saturday, with the dansants on Saturday afternoon. The German Club will
offer Bert Lown while Jim Pettis will play for the Cotillion Club.

“Stupendathon”

The State College athletes have been seen on the gridiron, diamond, court, and the field, but it will be the
first time that the student body will have a chance to see them on the stage. The “Stupendathon” will be
a take-off on the Walkathon. All female parts will be taken by the males, and probably the most outstanding feature
will be Carl Goode dressed as a ballet dancer in the “Spring..."Dance.” Crepe “Killed by Suppression” hangs on the office
door of the “Reveille,” Louisiana State University student paper. The staff has resigned—signal that they will not submit to censorship.
Editors and all their helpmates have “whata life’ if they don’t weaken.

I'll Huff and Puff

Following riots by over two hundred university students in front of the two theatres at the University of Georgia in
which an innocent bystander was injured, Georgia students declared a boycott on the Athens theatres at a mass meeting. The
police fired into the air and at the ground after being bombarded by a shower of eggs and coal cinders,
not to mention the intermingling eggs.

Colleginia

Over 30 religious denominations are represented among the 4,400 students registered at the University of Alabama. Only 305 students expressed
no religious preference.

A junior at Wake Forest brought a room with him when he came to college this fall. He built a
small one-room house for about $25, hauled it by truck from his home and set it under a giant oak
tree near the campus. Here he does his own cooking, sleeping, and studying. Says he, “Necessity is the mother of
ingenuity.”

According to the Johnsonian, Louisiana State College paper, its course in William Shakespeare will be discontinued and one of Huey
Long will be substituted to maintain the standard set by the previous curriculum. It is the profound belief of “The
Clemson Tiger” and mine that the Great Huey would serve the cause of education much more effectively as a subject
for a psychology lab.

The latest (and last) story about the W. & L. Law School fire has it that one member of the
fire department was not allowed to ride on the truck because he had not paid his dues.

According to The American Weekly, a recent graduate of Cornell is planning a nudist colony on a South Sea isle
where clothes, cigarettes, the Bible, and the bottle are banned. Everything else though—including love—is free. This proposed Utopia is open
only to college graduates.

A good story—fish perhaps—A college student, after hours of arguing about resolutions at a peace meeting, went to the bank
to cash a check. They asked him to endorse it. In a mental fuzz, he wrote on the check, “I
heartily endorse this check.”

“IT WAS NEWS...” FIVE YEARS AGO

Wildcats conquer Elon in hard-fought battle... Glee Club returns from Virginia trip... Dr. Walter Lingle to leave soon on speaking
tour... Davidson quintet faces very strong opposition in three state games... Wildkittens down Wingate five... Davidson wrestlers to meet Army
matmen... Annual Junior Speaking program to take place on March 14th and 15th... Sophomore banquet will be replaced by party...
Scabbard and Blade fraternity to entertain... Prof. Fleagle to be head of summer session.

TEN YEARS AGO

Wildcats down Georgia Tech 36-27 by fast passing and accurate shooting... Philosophy Club is started here... Strong V. P. I.
team wins over Davidson wrestlers... Wildcat Glee Club makes big hit in Belmont... ’Kittens smother Charlotte “Y” seniors... Many girls
at frat house parties... Dr. Swan of New York puts social hygiene before Davidson students with valuable films.

FIFTEEN YEARS AGO

“Flu” bids hill farewell as no ill results are apparent... State Volunteer Conference to meet here. Over one hundred delegates
expected... Bolshevists routed in sham battle by R. O. T.C.... Glee Club preparing excellent program for Junior Speaking... Peace Oratorical
Contests to be resumed this year.

Mental, spiritual, and physical growth as is the case under present conditions? Common sense answers in the negative. Let’s take
another picture and make a closer analysis: I venture the statement that all organized representative activities that develop individual capacity
while contributing tremendously to Davidson's welfare are actually supported by less than 7% of our students. In making this statement,
I am not considering organizations that have as their sole purpose personal aggrandizement or the recognition of single attainment. I
leave to others the proof or disproof of my statement, but I should welcome a more interesting statistical approach to
such a cross-index of our student body.

Now, all of the activities I have mentioned are decidedly worthwhile, and any student would do well to acquire an
active interest in one or more of them, as is true in many instances. In two of these activities, debating
and athletics, our teams must compete against intercollegiate opponents. It seems reasonable, therefore, to urge every man who can spare
the time and who is physically fit to test himself for his own good and that of his Alma Mater
before drifting with the stream. Some of our outstanding athletes have been men who never competed before coming to Davidson,
but they were willing to pay the price in their determination to do something and to test their own mettle.
Too many men “long for the merchandise but would fain keep the price.”

During the past five years intramural sports have been supported so enthusiastically that we have every reason to be satisfied
with their growth and development, but we feel fully justified in calling attention to the fact that intercollegiate competition is
the ultimate objective of our athletic program. The mere fact that a student enjoys intramural sports because he doesn’t have
to undergo the “grind” of intercollegiate competition, is the weakest excuse one can make for failing to follow through, if
he has the time and the physical ability to do so. If these two contingencies are met, only two other
factors, it would seem, can prevent a student from finding at least a “fighter’s chance” somewhere along our line of
intercollegiate sports—unadulterated laziness, or temperamental inhibitions, that can usually be boiled down to mental alibis. It is to both the
latter types that I put these questions: Why be satisfied with doing what you are required to do? Why not
drive yourself instead of hitchhiking through college under power supplied by others? Why deny yourself the thrill that comes from
the determination to do the hard things? Why be content to “let George do it” while salving yourself in mere
talk about the “Davidson spirit?”

CAMPUS By Storry McLrop

One busy week follows another. Last week all were agog over mid-winters and this week will bring to Davidson the
district conference of I. R. C., with about two hundred delegates and faculty representatives from southern schools. The Student Policies
Union presented its petition to the Board of Trustees this afternoon and it is just possible that before the conclusion
of the present year we at Davidson may have campus dancing and real plans for a social center.

Getting off to an early start for mid-winters, a number of the local boys were at the Hotel Charlotte supper
dance on Thursday night where Kay Kyser played for a packed house. Despite the present disrepute of the Kyser aggregation
among Davidsonians, David Sellers and Bob Johnston appeared to enjoy his music. Miss Jesse James (Martha Outlaw), of Elizabeth City,
appeared with K. D. Weeks and enlivened a table occupied by Trio Rogers, Pinhead Northen, Yungmango West, and others. Clara
Marg Grantham arrived early with Ollio (King of the West) Duff, while Tarzan Siewers and Gus the Barber Maynard made
a belated entrance. Mary Preston, of Columbia, was attendant with several underclassmen from the S. C. University. Dunc Johnson revelled
in the company of Louise Brown. All in all, the Kay Kyser one must have been very fine indeed, from
all reports.

The biggest event on the Davidson social calendar brought to our campus the most select group of young ladies that
it has been our pleasure to meet anywhere at any time. Doing honor to that merry old St. Valentine, the
decorations were colorful and of the very best.

Mid-winter Incidents: Ben Rose had two wrecks in one day; Bob Johnston had his tonsils removed; George Tipton suddenly acquired
a taste for mild pugilism; the Country Gentlemen were again blocked in their entertainment efforts by a jaundice-pigmented cafe proprietor
and were forced to adjourn to the Tavern; Mims Rogers was in a bind with three femmes; formal evening dress
secured a firmer grip on Davidson as twelve showed up in tails Friday night; to dance in tails entails additional
expenditure but any financial outlay is compensated for by the improved appearance which they give; the Friday night Pan-Hellenic figure
was so short that it could not but be good; Carlyle Lewis enjoyed the Saturday with Miss Cunningham; and everybody
had a good time.

Between the hops Saturday, the Greeks banqueted at various Charlotte clubs, hotels, cafes, inns, and boarding houses. Geddie Munroe served
as maitre de tostum for the Fijis at the S & W; while Wimpy Ravenel and Uncle Ezra Green orated
for the Kappa Sigs. Uncle Ezra explained the whys and wherefores of the various K. S. nicknames. Ravenel is called
Wimpy, not because of hamburgers, but because of Hambright (Betty). At Efird’s, the Phi Delts and their bevy of girls
had a tween-hop celebration and the K. A.’s dined royally at the Hotel Charlotte while Hod Williams played “O, Davidson.”
The Sons of Minerva were also at the fine Queen City hostelry.

Saturday afternoon the Phi Gam melodrama, under the personal supervision of the freshmen of that lodge, supplied a ludicrous interlude
for those humor-minded ladies and gentlemen present. The title of the production was, appropriately, “Fannie’s Bust” and the heroine was
Fannie Hurts while Alsquietonthewesternfront played the part of the handsome and dashing hero. Other characters were portrayed by Cutie-Pie McNabb,
the Garnier impersonators, and Man Mountain Holt. The villain, Red Dog Thug, was so mean that he killed his parents
when he was a kid so that he could go to the Orphans’ Picnic.

As three professional wrestlers protected her, a girl at a Charlotte hotel sprayed P. Y. Harlan with salt from a
rapid-flow shaker. Harpo took on the appearance of having been in a blowing snowstorm—with his clothes and body covered with
the sec. To climax the embarrassment of the white situation, somebody poured a bottle of beer in his new hat.
Harpo is on the rampage and none too quiet about it. Beware all wrestlers.
