THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 1, 1935

Presbytery Opposes Dancing In Any Form

(Continued from Page 3)

In opposing and condemning dancing, be it resolved that Mecklenburg Presbytery place itself on record as being unalterably opposed to
dancing at Davidson College under any form or condition and that we request the board of trustees to so answer
the request of the students of the college for permission to dance.”

This substitute resolution, quickly seconded, ushered in a lively discussion. Thomas Glasgow, Myers Park church elder, expressed his opinion that
“it was the duty of the college to supply dancing parlors that the students might be duly and safely chaperoned.”
A number of other ministers spoke, urging that the trend of church schools become spiritual rather than face the customs
of the world.

Dr. C. W. Boyd of the Westminster Presbyterian church stated that he favored either proper chaperonage of dancing or prohibition
of dancing, and that he frowned upon dancing being prohibited at the college and permitted at a hotel in Charlotte.
His amendment to the substitute, to the effect that student dancing in Charlotte be barred, was carried.

On the following day, there appeared a fiery letter in the Charlotte News by Dr. R. H. Black of the
North Charlotte Baptist church who violently condemned dancing both in high schools and colleges. Said he: “The modern dance is
one of the slime pits of this age. Multitudes of young people today are being plunged into moral chaos through
a lack of proper warning and reasonable restraint... It is only in the hours of some overmastering passion which has
been developed through the sensual movements of the dance and accentuated by the brutalizing influence of jazz music, that young
people plunge to their ruin.” He continued, “I used to dance. I know the danger of it... It is one
of the greatest evils of this day and age. It ought not to be allowed in our schools. Dancing is
resulting in a degeneration of the intellect, and the complete annihilation of spiritual ideals...”

In answer to this hail of fire and brimstone came a letter from E. L. Moore which began: “Despite the
occasional and belated blasts from the wheezy throats of ‘the Mrs. Grundys,’ liberalization and tolerance are fast making headway...” He
stressed the fact that present-day dancing was not to be compared with ancient biblical orgies termed “dancing,” but it is
true of the old man that “as his joints get stiff he hurls the epithets of evil and sin at
the dance.” He added that the associations in the dance are quite the same as those in a classroom and
that, “Intellectually supervised, it means a healthy mingling of the sexes in an invigorating, stimulating social exercise and pastime. Of
course, there are the Mr. and Mrs. Grundys so spiritually exalted and so physically withered as to forget that young
people have growing bodies, emotions, and desires, and yet withal, a code more suited to their needs than those that
would be forced upon them... Students no longer shy at the brimstone and damnation tactics, but have learned to inspect
the traditional dogma with a critical eye, and after pouring upon it the fluid of present-day knowledge, make a decision
of their own. Sanction school dances—or drive them to unsupervised parties,” he concluded.

DOUG IS BACK!... in his most colorful role... the famous Spanish lover!

Wed. Thur. DOUG FAIRBANKS in “The Private Life of Don Juan”

Fri.-Sat. TIM McCOY in “REVENGE RIDER”

S. VAN DINE Next Monday-Tuesday Philo Vance in his toughest mystery!

STATE Charlotte, N. C.

College President Makes Two Talks

(Continued from Page 3)

Related Colleges of America, and the Association of American Colleges where learned addresses are made on various phases of education,
he always came away feeling that nobody yet knows exactly what education is. There are a great many people who
are trying to find out. Dr. Lingle said he sometimes thinks there must be college students who are more or
less like Christopher Columbus of whom it has been said that when he started upon his voyage of discovery he
“did not know where he was going, when he got there he did not know where he was, and when
he got back, he did not know where he had been.” In the face of such a situation, it is
very important that those who teach and those who are taught should try to define clearly for themselves the objectives
toward which they are aiming.

Dr. Lingle suggested the following as proper objectives for a Christian College:

1. The Christian College should endeavor to store up hearts and minds of students with a rich storehouse of information.
The world is rich in history, literature, art, science, music, and many other things. The college should reach out and
select from these the finest and best and store them up in the hearts and minds of its students, thus
enabling and enriching their lives and at the same time helping them to find a place in the world and
to live more intelligent and effective lives.Christian College should stimulate the imagination of students and help them to appreciate the
finest and best that is in the world and life.

3. It is the function of the College to teach its students to think. An educated man is not simply
a walking encyclopedia of miscellaneous information, but one who has learned to think his way through the storehouse of information
which is passed on to him by the college, and also to think his way through the problems of life.

4. To awaken in its students the holy ambition to be something and do something. A man never reaches his
best as long as he has to be controlled and driven from without, but only after a new fire has
been lighted within.

5. To develop Christian personality in the lives of their students. After all, what a man is counts more than
what he does. The impress of the personality of a great teacher continues to influence the life of a student
long after he has forgotten what the teacher taught.

6. To give the master teacher his rightful place in the hearts and lives of teachers and students, in classrooms,
and on the campus. Any education that leaves him out will always lack something that is vital and eternal.

Large Number Intend To Enroll Next Year

Seventeen more students are now registered to attend Davidson next year than there were at this time last year, states
F. W. Hengeveld, Registrar. There are 432 men registered for next year against 415 at the corresponding time last year.
This number is rapidly increasing and is expected to reach last year’s total soon. Mr. Hengeveld expects to have the
registration of the three upper classes completed in the near future, and the Freshman class as soon thereafter as possible.

Mrs. W. P. Cumming will address the American Association of University Women at Statesville, Tuesday evening, May 7.

Popular Alumni Are Issued Bids

(Continued from Page 1)

Lindsay is a member of Phi Gamma Delta. He is president of the rising senior class. In the past, he
has been active in publications and Y.M.C.A. work. He served on the student council this year. Lindsay is a member
of Kappa Sigma.

Windham is a member of the “D” Club and has been elected president of that organization for next year. He
has been active in athletics in the past and this year made a letter in varsity football and basketball. He
will act with Cathey as co-captain of the football team next year. Windham is president of Beta Theta Pi.

Captain J. P. Grey of Bristol, Va., a veteran of the Spanish-American War, has been extended a bid for membership
in Omicron Delta Kappa but was not present at the tap-day exercises. He is an alumnus of Davidson College and
is a brother of Dr. W. R. Grey, vice-president of the college. Captain Grey received an invitation for membership in
recognition of his attainment by a faculty committee that was familiar with him and his work. Captain Grey is president
of the Grey Hosiery Mills, Bristol, Va.

The election of fourteen students increases the undergraduate membership of the Delta Circle to twenty-seven, twenty of which are seniors.
Old student members of the Circle are: Gordon H. Brown, Robert T. Coit, Charles Fort, John Mackorell, George Wingfield, K.
D. Weeks, Mims Rogers, William Northern, A. J. Potter, Walter Sprunt, Fred McPhail, Dewey Hutchins, and Robert Smith. Initiation ceremonies
for the new pledges have been set for Monday, May 13.

Major and Mrs. John Rhett entertained at lunch Friday, in honor of Captain and Mrs. T. S. Brand, of Charlotte.
The Twentieth Century Club held its regular meeting Friday afternoon, at the home of Mrs. Harry Caldwell, Concord Road.

FRIDAY, MAY 3

Davidson Theatre

WEDNESDAY, MAY 1
FOUR HOURS TO KILL
With Richard Barthelmess

THURSDAY, MAY 2
STOLEN HARMONY
With Ben Bernie

SATURDAY, MAY 4
SPRING TONIC
With Lew Ayres, Claire Trevor, and Zasu Pitts

© 1935, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.

8,271 men and women visited the Chesterfield factories during the past year. A man who visited a Chesterfield factory recently
said: “Now that I have seen Chesterfields made, I understand better than ever why people say Chesterfields are milder and
have a better taste.” If you too could visit our factories, you could see the clean, airy surroundings; the employees
in their spotless uniforms, and the modern cigarette-making machinery. You could notice how carefully each Chesterfield cigarette is inspected and
see also how Chesterfields are practically untouched by human hands. Whenever you happen to be in Richmond, Va., Durham, N.C.,
or San Francisco, California, we invite you to stop at the Liggett & Myers plants and see how Chesterfields are
made.

Satisfy THAT URGE TO BE DIFFERENT with TRAYMORE

If it’s originality you want... if you are really concerned about wearing clothes that are individual... “Traymore” is the answer.
The style minority tell us “Traymore” is Under-Grad's best... we too, think it’s the major style of the year. Inimitable
style at a popular price!

$7.50 and $9.95

TATE BROWN CO.
STUDENTS DEPT.
THIRD FLOOR
