STUDENTS, ALUMNI MOURN DEATH OF “DOC” CHARLEY

ALENDA LU xX Bl ORTA LIBERTAS

I. R. C. DELEGATES ARRIVE TOMORROW FOR CONVENTION

Vol. XXII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FEBRUARY 20, 1935 No. 17

GANG TALKS TO LARGE AUDIENCE THURSDAY NIGHT

“The Opinion Of Plenty” Is Subject Of English Professor And Lecturer

STANFORD PROFESSOR

Speaker Plans For New “Advancement Of Learning”

“The past is not dead, and cannot safely be allowed to die,” said Dr. Hardin Craig to his audience last
Thursday night. One might expect that to be a plea from a voice out of the past rather than one
of this country’s foremost scholars addressing a group of college students and faculty members. That was not the only one
of Dr. Craig's statements which commanded the attention of his listeners and which probably dug in deeper than many of
the expressions of more common opinion which we sometimes hear even from college professors. Dr. Craig sprinkled his audience with
the pricking arrows of new thoughts which kept the attention of the large crowd throughout his entire lecture.

Dr. Craig, after being introduced by Dr. Frazier Hood, put his audience at ease by saying that he wanted them
to feel as though he were addressing a class in a usual lecture period. He himself spoke in a very
informal manner, giving the impression of extemporaneous additions to his talk here and there, and occasionally arranging his notes as
he searched for some reference or quotation with which to illustrate his point.

“You who are to hear me tonight,” he said, “have already embarked on an intellectual career. You have signified your
intention to devote at least part of your lives to scientific advancement by your enrollment in Davidson College.” By scientific
Dr. Craig explained that he meant general education and not just the pure sciences. “Sickness, poverty, and misgovernment might be
cured by a strengthening of the scientific spirit among the people of the world,” he went on. “As an example,
take the matter of foreign trade and the question of a favorable balance of trade. What actual understanding of this
matter do the members of our Congress have? What a better understanding would a wise knowledge of the subject bring.”

“We are confronted by a veritable barbarian invasion of ignorance, which is comparable to the barbarian invasion of the Roman
Empire. It can be successfully beaten back only by the advancement of learning,” was the conclusion Dr. Craig drew.

To explain his rather cryptic subject, “The opinion of plenty,” Dr. Craig quoted from one of Lord Bacon’s essays entitled
“The Advancement of Learning.”

(Continued on Page 6, Col. 2)

Dr. Lingle Attends Church Convention

Dunn Accompanies College President On Visit To Reformed Church Conference

Dr. W. L. Lingle attended the meeting of the Western Section of Reformed Churches Throughout the World Holding the Presbyterian
System which was held in the Second Presbyterian Church in Richmond, Va., on February 12 and 13. Mr. R. A.
Dunn, President of Trustees, accompanied Dr. Lingle on this trip.

This organization is a world-wide organization of Presbyterians. The Western Section is one division of this large organization. This section
is made up of the Presbyterians in the United States and Canada. It also includes all of the different branches
of the Presbyterian Church which exist in these countries.

The program for the two days of the meeting was very full, and many topics of common interest to all
Presbyterians were discussed. Among those topics which were discussed were home missions, foreign missions, education, Christian literature, and particular attention
was given to the condition of the Presbyterian and Reform Churches in other lands, especially in Europe. Dr. Lingle stated
that this discussion of the conditions of the Church in these foreign countries was particularly interesting.

FIGURE IN I. R. C. MEET HERE

DR. OTTO NATHAN who will address the International Relations Club convention February 21, 22 and 23 of this week. On
the right, Charles Lucas, president of the local chapter of International Relations Club, which is sponsored by the Carnegie Foundation
for peace. Dr. Nathan will deliver his principal address Friday evening and will take part in the various discussion groups
that will be formed.

‘Doc’ Charley

SCHEDULES FOR DEBATING TEAM ARE COMPLETED

Northern Team Plans Negative; Southern, Western Teams Uphold Affirmative

TRIPS TO START SOON

Sugg, Stutts, Tot Salango, Smith, Boggs To Make Trips

Schedules for the varsity debating team have been arranged and final plans are being completed for the intercollegiate contests which
begin soon. The varsity debaters have been divided into three teams with two men on each team. The Southern team
will tour through South Carolina, Georgia, and Florida, engaging various colleges and universities along the route. The Western team will
travel through Tennessee and Kentucky, and the Northern team will oppose colleges in New Jersey, Pennsylvania, and Vermont.

The question for debate is, Resolved: That the Nations Shall Agree to Prevent International Shipment of Arms and Munitions. The
Southern team, composed of Albert Stutts and Harold Sugg, will uphold the affirmative side of this question. They will engage
the College of Charleston at Charleston, S. C., February 28, and will then journey into Florida to meet the University
of Miami. The Miami debate will be held in the afternoon in an outdoor amphitheatre, March 5. On the return
trip the debaters will stop in Atlanta and oppose Emory.

Dies Following Quarter Century Of Service

Beloved Colored Trainer Davidson Athletes Passes Away Monday Morning

“Doc” Charley, colored trainer of Davidson athletes for well over a quarter of a century, will no longer accompany Wildcat
athletic teams. For “Doc” Charley died early Monday morning at the Good Samaritan Hospital in Charlotte, where he had been
for several days, suffering from a serious attack of kidney trouble. He had been confined at home for several days
when it was decided to take him to the hospital, as a last gesture of appreciation of the services of
a loyal Davidson man.

Two Davidson alumni, Dr. H. W. McKay and Dr. Oren Moore, of Charlotte, saw that “Doc” Charley, friend of 30
years of Davidson men, got the best attention possible. No hope was held for his recovery.

True to the traditions of his race, “Doc” Charley carried a rabbit's foot, one of the left-hind order, and before
every Davidson football game he buried a rabbit’s foot under a goal post. Expressing implicit faith in the charm, he
attributed Army’s recent victory over Davidson to the refusal of West Point officials to let him continue his ancient rite.
His rabbit foot failed him once.

As a Wildcat fan and an athletic prognosticator he ranked with the highest of the ardents and the greatest of
the prophets. He correctly predicted the 6-0 win over Wake Forest on the gridiron in 1932 and Dame Rumor gave
him credit for foretelling other Wildcat victories of yore. This past fall it was explained to “Doc” Charley that he
could not go to West Point with the Wildcats. But the negro trainer stowed away in the baggage and was
there, rooting for the Davidson team with all the loyalty that was in him. He insisted on following Davidson teams
on every trip and in 1929 lost an eye when the bus bearing a Davidson track team to the University
of South Carolina ran off the road.

(Continued on Page 6, Col. 1)

College Trustees Consider Petition

Major Part Of Day Is Used In Hearing Reports And Discussing Petitions

The Trustees of Davidson College convened in the Board Room of Chambers Building at ten o’clock this morning for their
annual mid-winter session. After being called to order by the President, Dr. R. A. Dunn, of Charlotte, the Board withdrew
in a body to the college auditorium, where its members enjoyed a program by the Department of Music, under the
direction of Professor James Christian Pfohl.

Following the chapel services, the officials heard a comprehensive report by Dr. W. L. Lingle, President of Davidson, on the
work of the college for the past year and received his suggestions for the program of the coming year. Mr.
F. L. Jackson, Treasurer, then rendered a complete account of financial transactions during the same period and placed before the
Board such business matters as needed their consideration at this time.

The major part of the day was consumed in the reading and discussion of these reports. However, the Trustees were
also asked to advise and consult with the faculty about certain honorary degrees to be conferred at the next commencement.
The body then received for consideration a petition from the students urging that the Board reverse its decision of four
years ago and permit dancing on the Davidson campus. The petition also requested that an adequate social center be the
first step in the centennial building program as outlined by Dr. Lingle early in the fall.

The Executive Committee of the Trustees met with Dr. Dunn in Charlotte yesterday to receive reports and suggestions for the
years 1935-1936. The entire administration and regulation of college activities is vested in

(Continued on Page 6, Col. 3)

Sigma Pi Sigma Issues Bids To Unnamed Men

Members of Sigma Pi Sigma, in session Monday night, passed seven men to membership, and they were sent bids yesterday.
No names have as yet been made public. After this election of members, the members heard a paper by Hub
Powell, on the cosmic ray, in which many interesting and unusual facts, developed by the research of the past few
years, were presented in a striking way. Thereafter the fraternity decided that its delegation to Queens-Chicora College of Charlotte will
go there on the fourth day of April, in conjunction with a deputation from Gamma Sigma Epsilon, national honorary fraternity
of chemists, founded at Davidson. These delegations will confer with students at Queens-Chicora who are interested in physics and chemistry,
and an exchange of ideas and principles will ensue. These visits are an annual custom, and much benefit is reaped
from them. The other honorary fraternities on the hill follow the same procedure.University, March 7. Tylor Port and James Salango
make up the personnel of the Western team and they will also uphold the affirmative side of the question. On
March 15 they meet the University of the South at Suwanee, Tenn., after which they go to Danville, Ky., to
debate against Centre College, March 19. On March 20 the Western team will oppose the University of Kentucky at Lexington.
Bob Smith and Wade Boggs of the Northern team will defend the negative side of the question on their tour
the latter part of March and early April. First, they meet Rutgers University, March 26, at New Brunswick, N. J.,
and on the following day they engage Bucknell University at Louisburg, Penn. The Northern team will then travel through New
England and debate against Middlebury College at Middlebury, Vt., April 3.

Four Social Groups: To Initiate New Men Soon

During the past few weeks fraternities have been initiating the new men pledged last fall. Beta Theta Pi initiated their
new men on February 9. Phi Delta Theta had their initiation on February 11; Pi Kappa Phi on February 7,
and Sigma Alpha Epsilon on February 11th. On the night of February 14, the following men were initiated into Pi
Kappa Alpha: G. B. Cleveland, A. C. Cline, M. B. Crisp, J. R. Durham, J. R. Horton, J. O. Lafferty,
M. L. Lafferty, R. D. Neal, C. Raynall, and A. O. Spoon. Phi Gamma Delta and Sigma Phi Epsilon will
hold their respective initiations on February 23; Kappa Alpha will hold theirs on February 25, and Kappa Sigma sometime during
the first of March.

INTERVIEWED BY RICHARD VOWLES

“Is this your first trip South, Mr. Brinkman?”

“No, but the first in this part of the country. I have played in the Southwest previously.” The pianist, who
presented such a brilliant concert last week, straddled the piano bench and smiled boyishly.

“How do you like this part of the country?”

“I was extremely impressed with it. I had no idea until now what a beautiful state North Carolina is.”

“Do you intend to give any other concerts after this one?”

“No, I will return to Ann Arbor immediately, and continue my teaching duties. You see, I have very little time
for concerts. My only times are during vacations and exam periods.”

“What do you think of American composers and their music?”

“So far, I do not believe that American composers have really done anything worthy of comparison with the compositions of
Bach, Beethoven, and the other immortals. Most of our native composers are experimenting with modernistic music. I do believe that
our young composers are on the eve of a new era—an era of music that will attain great heights. Musical
development moves by cycles and, in between, there are periods of decline. Now, we are, I believe, at the point
of entering a new cycle.”

“What do you think of jazz as typical American music?”

(Continued on Page 6, Col. 1)

NATHAN WILL SPEAK AT IRC CONFERENCE TO BE HELD HERE

Photographic Contest Winners To Be Chosen

The photographic contest sponsored by The Davidsonian and Mr. I. W. Van Ness, Charlotte dealer in photographic supplies, was closed
last Friday as scheduled. The judges have yet reached no decision, but results of the contest will be announced in
the next issue. This competition was open only to students, and pictures will be judged on their originality and value
as a record of campus activities and student life. The photos were of various types, sizes, camera, and method of
exposure not being limited by the eligibility rules. It is planned to reproduce the winning photographs in an early issue
of The Davidsonian. At this time a number of the other contest entries may be printed in a brief pictorial
of the highlights of the scholastic year.

RECENT DANCES ATTRACT MANY

Rain And Cold Fail To Diminish Enthusiasm Of Many Mid-winter Dancers

In spite of the determined efforts of “old man weather,” the past weekend has offered many hours of pleasant entertainment
for Davidson students. A multitude of beautiful girls appeared from ports far and near; rhythmical, entertaining music of a “doubtful
source” still echoes in the ears of many; visions of red and white crepe in Valentine designs; the glittering of
imaginary stars playing “will-o’-th’-wisp”; the flooding glow of incandescent spotlights, blending in color and beauty, flit before one’s eyes; all
made to appear and disappear as if by the magic touch of the Pan-Hellenic Council. Davidson has witnessed another annual
celebration of mid-winter dances and their accompanying programs. And now, remain only a cold, bare armory, sleepy visages and unstudied
assignments.

Davidson’s mid-winter dances began under the sponsorship of the Pan-Hellenic Council on Friday evening, the fifteenth. Friday evening was filled
with a formal dance, accommodating many pleasure seekers. The crowd began to gather quite early, and grew very rapidly. At
midnight the figure was presented. The lights were lowered and a spotlight was focused on a door in the center
of an enormous heart situated at one end of the armory. To the soft strains of beautiful music, the members
of the Pan-Hellenic Council, led by their president, (Continued on Page 6, Col. 3)

College Band Will Give Concert Here

Mrs. Pfohl Will Present Piano Number Never Played Before In The South

The Davidson College Symphonic Band will give a concert on the evening of March 1 in Chambers Auditorium. This concert
will be open to the general public, and there will be no admission charged. However, there will be a free-will
offering taken which will go to the band uniform fund. The program for this concert is as follows: Triumphant Concert
March, Olivadoti; Overture to William Tell, Rossini; Willow Echoes, Simon; Cornet solo by A. Moreland Cunningham; Selections from Show Boat,
Kern; Intermission; Hungarian Fantasy, Liszt, piano solo by Louise Nelson Pfohl, accompanied by the band; Bolero, Ravel. It will be
of interest to the audience to know that the solo which Mrs. Pfohl will play has never been played in
the South by a concert band before and is being played from manuscript, as no arrangements of this are on
sale. The college band has been in serious need of adequate uniforms for several years, and it is hoped that
collections from this concert, together with what has already been accumulated, will be sufficient to buy a complete outfit.

Eight States In South-Eastern District To Be Represented In Conference

LUCAS WILL PRESIDE

Members From One Hundred Two Colleges To Attend

Davidson will be honored this week as host to the conference of the International Relations Clubs in the Southeast, which
convenes here on the campus from February 21 to 23, inclusive. An instructive and entertaining program has been planned by
the Davidson club, featuring Dr. Otto Nathan, eminent German political advisor, who will be the principal speaker. Dr. Nathan will
deliver his most important address on Friday evening and will also take part in the discussion groups and open forum
discussions Friday morning and afternoon. A varied social program has also been arranged. All the fraternity houses on the hill
will hold open house for the visitors at 9:00 p.m. Thursday night, and feeds will be served by each. A
very important part of the program will be the presentation of the Carnegie Endowment for this year by Miss Ursula
P. Hubbard of the New York office.

Attending the conference will be representatives from the International Relations Clubs of universities in Alabama, Florida, Georgia, Mississippi, North Carolina,
South Carolina, Tennessee, and Virginia. The conference this year is expected to surpass that of any former year in attendance,
as evidenced by the large number of invitations which have been accepted. International Relations Clubs are organized in many countries
in the world. There are 528 clubs in the United States and 139 in foreign countries. Clubs have been organized
in seven countries of South America, twenty-five in the British Isles, and there are clubs in Bulgaria, Greece, Africa, Egypt,
Iraq, Syria, Palestine, India, Siam, and Sumatra. Clubs are active in Japan, Korea, Hawaii, and the Philippines, and in the
universities in the coast cities of China and far into the interior. Young people have also organized clubs in Australia,
South Africa, and New Zealand for the impartial study of world problems.

Dr. Nathan, a member of the faculty of Princeton University, was educated at the Universities of Wuersburg, Freiburg, and Munich,
and has been associated with banks in London and Brussels. In March, 1930, he was transferred from the Reich Statistical
Bureau to the Ministry of Economics of the German Reich as an economic advisor. He has been editor of German
publications and author of numerous articles and reviews in economic periodicals. Dr. Nathan came to this country in 1930 on
a leave of absence from his government and was the guest of the Insti- (Continued on Page 6, Col. 2)

Famed Soprano To Sing At Y Vespers

Miss Errett Straley To Give Musical Program Accompanied By Glee Club

The Sunday evening vesper services on February 24 will consist entirely of music, featuring Miss Errett Straley, vocalist, of Winston-Salem.
Miss Straley, who sings soprano, has attained state-wide distinction for her ability in church singing. She will offer the following
numbers: He Shall Give His Angels Charge, by John Prindle Scott; Lead Kindly Light, by Gobard, and With Verdure Clad
(from The Creation), by Haydn. Miss Errett Straley, singing the soloist division, will accompany the Davidson College Glee Club in
rendering Gounod’s immortal Sanctus. The college concert band, accompanied by the glee club and organ, will offer well-known hymns. The
salon orchestra, under the direction of Professor James Christian Pfohl, head of the music department of Davidson, will accompany the
organ in selected numbers on the program.

“This musical vesper program is designed on the same plan as the Y. M. C. A. vesper services held in
November of last year,” stated Professor Pfohl. Warren Babock, assistant in the music department, will aid Professor Pfohl in directing
the band.
