THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 10, 1935

Musicians Plan Active Program

Davidson Musical Organization To Give Concert Here This Month

The Davidson College Orchestra and Glee Club are planning a combined concert to begin here the second week in May.
These concerts will be identical to those presented by these organizations on tours in Virginia. As yet, these combined groups
have not offered a complete recital here. The Glee Club and Orchestra have received many requests from outsiders to combine
their programs. There will be no charge for these concerts, but free-will offerings will be accepted for the purpose of
obtaining keys for the individual members.

The Glee Club is presenting a program of a secular type at 3:30 on the afternoon of May 19th. This
program will be presented at the Second Presbyterian Church in Charlotte, under the auspices of the Charlotte Christian Endeavor.

Professor Pfohl acted as one of the judges at the State High School Musical Contest held recently in Greensboro. An
audience of approximately 3,750 persons attended, and Prof. Pfohl made contracts with many prospective Davidson students.

Their concert was given yesterday, Tuesday, May 7, by the Concert Band. It was the first of the series to
be held on the Campus. Lights have been installed to permit their being held at night. One of the features
on these programs will be the singing of favorite songs by the audience. Also, senior band members will be guest
conductors. Suggestions from the student body concerning the songs to be sung will be appreciated if submitted to the head
of the musical department now.

Dr. Ruark Lectures Here

He collaborated with Dr. H. C. Urey, Nobel prize winner and professor at Columbia University, in the compilation of “Atoms,
Molecules, and Quanta,” a book which records every important contribution to the fields of Physics and Chemistry made within the
last ten years. This book is a standard text, used in almost every institution of higher learning within the land
and has become the sine qua non for candidates for an advanced degree in either of these subjects. A comparatively
young man, in the middle forties, Dr. Ruark has for a decade been affiliated with the leading scientific organizations of
the country. At present, he is engaged in forming southern branches of the Physical Society of America. He spoke at
the meeting of the Southern Association of Physicists recently held at Decatur. He also delivered several papers to the Academy
of Sciences meeting held in Greensboro last week and attended by Prof. Fulcher of the Davidson Physics Department.

Griffin, Cathey Named To Head Student Store

Student Loan Fund. Many students have received money from this fund which enabled them to stay in school when otherwise
they would have been forced to withdraw. For the last few years, no great profit has been made from the
store, but the present year shows an appreciable gain.

Athletic Director To Serve At U. Of Va.

Capt. Pritchett has also studied at Harvard and the University of Wisconsin, a member of the Alpha Tau Omega fraternity.
Later, while at Davidson, he was elected to Omicron Delta Kappa. In honor and recognition of the work of Capt.
Pritchett, the Yearbook of 1933 was dedicated to him with the following words: “The class of 1933 respectfully dedicates this
volume of the Quips and Cranks to its best friend, example, and counselor, to him who is the personification of
all that is and should be the Davidson Spirit, Captain Norton Goodier Pritchett. In leaving Davidson, Capt. Pritchett makes the
following statement: “The seven years we have lived in Davidson have meant more to us than we can hope to
express in words.” Capt. Pritchett comments very highly upon athletics at Davidson College, its school spirit, its square playing, and
the spirit of cooperation of its athletics. He says that there is no possibility of Davidson “turning pro,” because our
reputation as a school that plays its own regular students is far more valuable than any team Davidson could ever
“buy.” Capt. Pritchett has been chosen by the authorities of the University of Virginia to head the reorganization of the
University’s athletic system. He states that it has been very definitely and positively decided that Virginia will not “turn pro.”
Capt. Pritchett states that his aim as director of athletics will be to discover and awaken potential athletic ability among
the students. He hopes to establish an intramural sports plan similar to Davidson’s. Capt. Pritchett and his family will move
to Charlottesville, where their new home will be, early in the summer. Capt. Pritchett paid Davidson the tribute of saying
that when the Davidson—Virginia football game comes off next fall, he was ready to tell anyone that he'd be there
pulling for the Wildcats.

Yearlings Lose In Series Of Games

Davidson Wake Forest
Ganier, E. Second base Aderholt
Moyer Shortstop Dupree
Lafferty First base Yount
Kellum Catcher Brunnemer
P. Rt. field Smith
Williams Left field Riddle
Gibson Center field Dooney
Baskerville Third base P. Smith
Kieswetter Pitcher Byrd

Substitutions: Davidson: Ganier for Baskerville in the 7th, Calloway for Kieswetter in the middle of the 4th. Davidson got 6
hits against 18, had five left on bases against none, stole 1 base against 5, and made 10 errors against
5. The game with Wingate Junior College was played Saturday, in Wingate. The Davidson line-up was the same as that
of Friday, except that Rogers played in Center field, Clark pitched, Goodman played in right field, and Ganier, G., played
at third throughout the game. Wingate scored in the second, third, fourth, sixth, and seventh innings, for a total of
seven runs, thirteen hits, and three errors. The Frosh scored in the sixth and ninth innings, for a total of
four runs, nine hits, and one error. There were no substitutes. A freshman game was played here with Brevard this
afternoon.

Former College Head Talks Over Old Times

“Would you mind telling about some of your honors while in college?”
“Not at all. At Davidson, I won gold medals in Greek, Mathematics, and English. At Virginia, also two gold medals
in oratory. Phi Beta Kappa and ODK at Washington and Lee, besides Kappa Phi in Journalism.”
“Could you relate an experience of yours while in college?”
“Yes, as a student at Davidson, I organized a skating club and decided to build a pond for skating. Together
with some other boys, we built a dirt dam and waited for freezing weather. One night about10 O'clock I went
down to see if the ice would hold. It didn’t and that’s all the exploit amounted to. Later, a lake
was built.

“Dr. Smith, I’ve often heard the statement that you played a large part in the World War without firing a
shot?”

“Yes, I was the agency through which the government stirred the German people to a state of rebellion, and thus
ended the war by several months.”

Note: The National Security League offered a reward for the best plan to distribute Allied propaganda over Germany and Dr.
Smith, having an intimate knowledge of air currents, offered a plan which later resulted in millions of tiny balloons floating
over and descending upon Germany with propaganda pamphlets attached to them. So successful was the plan, that the German officers
offered rewards for every balloon turned in, but of course that did not prevent a reading of the messages. Dr.
Smith was awarded and commended by the government for his plan.

“Dr. do you think there is any harm in dancing at Davidson?”

“A dance at Davidson under supervision of professors and with no liquor being drunk by the students, is much to
be preferred to a college dance in Charlotte without such supervision and teetotalism.”

In closing, Dr. Smith added that it might be interesting to note, that in the scientific field, he was the
first scientist in the United States to use Roentgen's newly discovered X-Ray in medical and surgical cases. Also, the second
X-ray picture ever to be made in the U. S. was made here at Davidson.

Around Town (Continued from Page 5, Col. 3)

Mrs. W. R. Grey is visiting at the home of her son and daughter, Dr. and Mrs. Charles Hattauer of
New York City. The Junior Christian Endeavor Society was entertained Saturday evening, by Professor and Mrs. W. W. Wood. Mrs.
John Poteat and little son of Marion, N. C., have returned to their home after a short visit with Mr.
and Mrs. J. R. Withers. Professor and Mrs. J. C. Pfohl spent Friday and Saturday in Asheville, where they gave
a recital.

Among The Greeks (Continued from Page 5, Col. 6)

PHI GAMMA DELTA
Brothers Cokey Branton, Mims Rogers, and John Siewers attended the May Frolics at the University of North Carolina. Brothers J.
B. Goslen and Caleb made a short trip to Bennettsville, S. C. over the weekend. Brothers Arthur Cooke, Joe McNabb,
Hoxie Thompson, and Ab Whitney spent the weekend in Greensboro.

PHI DELTA THETA
The N. C. Gamma Chapter held a feed Sunday night. A delegation went to Louisville over the weekend including P.
D. Guerrant, Ray Richardson, “Shy” Taylor, and Ab Price. A number of the brothers attended the Queens May Day.

SIGMA PHI EPSILON
The N. C. Epsilon Chapter held its annual banquet at the S. & W. Cafeteria in Charlotte on the weekend
of April 27. After the banquet, a dance was held at the Carolina Golf Club. Those girls attending were: Camilla
Austell, Margaret Donahoo, Bonnye Cox, Jean Kent Early, Barton Jackson, Margaret McBrayer, Margaret McNeely, and Jean Orr from Charlotte; Marie
Cline, Teeny Cooke, and Liby Deas from Salisbury; Lucy Currie, Margaret Douglas, and Goudyloch Erwin from Davidson; Cornelia Caldwell from
Gastonia; Rowena Taylor from Oxford; Margaret Henry from Rocky Mount. The chaperones for the occasion were: Dr. and Mrs. P.
H. Gwynn and Prof. and Mrs. E. Fulcher. Last weekend Brothers Barnett, Turner, and Vowles attended a convention at N.
C. State College.

Assistants To Be Picked Soon
Assistantship Committee Now Considering Applications Of Students

Applications for student assistantships have been received in the Registrar’s office, and are now before the Faculty Committee. The appointments
will be made in the near future. The duties of the assistant are to correct and grade papers and to
act on behalf of the professor in case of his absence. He receives in return a financial remuneration which may
or may not be credited against his college fees. The applications are now under the consideration of the Assistantship Committee
which is made up of faculty members. This committee gives careful attention to each man’s application, and the men winning
positions for the coming year will be notified in the near future.

Dr. Gwynn To Be Finals Speaker For Belmont
Dr. P. H. Gwynn will deliver the commencement address to the graduating class of Belmont High School in Belmont, N.
C. on May 14, 1935. He recently delivered the baccalaureate sermon for the graduating class of Sharon High School five
miles south of Charlotte near the Morrison estate. The topic of his sermon was, “The Challenge of Christian Gospels.” On
last Tuesday evening, May 1, he delivered the commencement address at Troy High School.

CARS FOR RENT
Gulf Gas and Oil
M. P. HENDERSON

Davidson Produces Honest Statesman
Judge A. L. Gaston, of Chester, S. C., judge of the sixth circuit and a Davidson Alumnus has aroused a
great deal of comment over his recent action in regard to back pay. It seems that some time ago certain
members of the legislature sponsored a movement for the reduction of salaries of state officials. Judge Gaston says he was
“a party to it.” However, the Supreme Court later ruled that the officials should receive their regular salary, whereupon Judge
Gaston was sent a check for $2,705 for back pay. Comptroller General A. J. Beattie disclosed the fact the other
day that the Judge had returned the check saying he was a member of the group favoring the reduction. Judge
Gaston even went so far as to guarantee the state that in returning the money he relinquished any further claim
to it on the part of his heirs or estate. We are tempted to say that Davidson even produces honest
or conscientious politicians and government officials. Something to be proud of in this modern age.

THE STORE WITH A PERSONAL INTEREST IN THE STUDENTS
BUY FROM US
REMEMBER OUR SPECIAL ON CANDY
WHITE DRUG Co.

There is no need for a lot of whangdoodle talk about cigarettes—just plain common-sense look at it—Smoking a cigarette gives
a lot of pleasure—it always has. People have been smoking and enjoying tobacco in some form or another for over
400 years. Of course, you want a cigarette to be made right. And naturally, you want it to be mild.
Yet you want it to have the right taste—and plenty of it. In other words—you want it to satisfy. Scientific
methods and ripe mild tobaccos make Chesterfield a milder and better-tasting cigarette. We believe you will enjoy them.
