THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 25, 1935

HONOR ROLL

This box will be used to announce picked stars of Frosh and Intramural Sports. Sports Afield.

HONOR ROLL

Coley Windham and Dick Johnson selected by Grier Martin as Varsity stars of the past week.

By HARRY KUYKENDALL

Coach “Peahead” Walker of Elon, no doubt, would be a trifle embarrassed if referred to his own statement, made last
Spring, that he intended to lick this “if it’s the last thing I ever do.” It was easily evident, however,
that Walker and his assistants had stimulated the Christians into an almost unquenchable thirst for victory, which explains to some
degree, the small margin of victory gained by Davidson.

Starting with this issue, some informed members of this campus will be asked every week to give their selection of
the past week's stars in Varsity, Frosh, or Intramural sports; the names to be printed in the “ears” of this
page. Grier Martin was called this week and in collaboration with Coach Newton, named Coley Windham and Dick Johnson as
the stars who really looked good to them. No one can question the authority of these men in making such
statements. No doubt a number of people will express surprise at such selections dependent on lines or sidelines for their
opinion. The fact remains, however, that these two men, inconspicuous in their positions, deserve a larger slice of the honors
for Saturday's game, since they are not headliners.

“Teeney” Lafferty, as anyone familiar with the game knows, did all that could be expected. The 17-year-old blocking back, weighing
only 155 pounds, crossed the last of the white stripes entirely on his own hook. Pittman, Ed Armfield, and Fred
Dennis in the field aided materially while the forward wall featured play by Cathey, Williams, Freeman, and Joe Hunter. Wood
Burns, center, took good care of his pass defense assignment.

“Hunk” Anderson, in company with two aides, left the press box Saturday with a look on his face that would
compare similarly with that of a kitten which has just cleaned up the contents of the bottle. Possibly he is
expecting an easy time under the floodlights of Greensboro’s Memorial Stadium or maybe he was just thinking about his two
“cowboys” who are to affect a last roundup of Davidson's gridiron championship possibilities just three days hence.

Personally, the majority of Davidson supporters feel that as long as the Wildcats don't have to spell the polysyllabic monikers
that tag the majority of State's players, things are in good shape for a surprise.

KITTENS LOOK GOOD

According to Coach “Red” Laird, prospects for this year’s eleven are the best in several years. However, he added and
was seconded somewhat by “Tubby” Hand, that it would be impossible to determine how good the combinations are because of
improved frosh elevens. Hicks, Edwards, Warden, Johnston, McClellan, and Abells are luminaries of the line while the backfield is largely
covered by the exhibitions of Stair, Steere, Sample, Mauney, Harrison, and Hand.

SUMMER ROUNDUP

Carlyle Iverson Lewis, “King of the Local courts” came in for an unusual slice of honors this summer and assumed
the proportions of another Bitsy Grant with frequent references being made to him as “the Giant Killer” by fans of
the game. In all, Carlyle won a total of 6 cups in tournament play, traveled all over the state, and
vir-
(Continued on page 6)

BIG FIVE TEAM TO HAVE BITTER RACE THIS YEAR

Carolina Tar Heels Promise Fine Team With Eight Lettermen Returning

WADE’S TEAM STRONG

Wake Forest To Have Improved Passing Attack

By SPORTS EDITOR

The latent powers of that well-known monster “King Football” were so thoroughly and furiously roused last week that football scribes
have already proceeded to point out who's who in the race for BIG FIVE grid supremacy—“The bitterest intrastate football race
in the broad land of America.”

Wallace Wade's revamped combination served notice on these would-be prognosticators that they were aiming high this season in spite of
the loss of many stars. As a postscript to this notice, the Dukes added a 26-7 victory over Wake Forest—the
score lacking only two points of being a repetition of last year’s game.

Three observations serve to illustrate why Duke will be a strong candidate for top honors. Namely: theirs will be a
heavier line, much more abundant reserve strength, and a heavy, speedy backfield. Supporters are resting the Blue Devil's chances on
the reliant shoulders of “Ace” Parker, the sensational quarterback who excels in all phases of the game. Next in potentialities
are Hackney, Jack Alexander, and Jule Ward. “Whimpy” Ravenel, former Davidson star and now a graduate student at Duke, pointed
out that Parker and Hackney both are particularly dangerous threats, while Jim Johnston, Ed West, and Dick Taliaferro (pronounced Tolliver)
are a trio of linesmen that will spell double trouble for any team.

However, sports enthusiasts, confronted with a request to “name their pick,” are prone to heap the title upon the sensational
Snavely’s Tar Heels. The rehabilitation process in football, which was such a success at Chapel Hill last year, will carry
on into this season with such men as Daniels, Evins, Trimpey, McCarn, Joyce, Pendergraft, Bershack, and brilliant Dick to the
forward wall. Such returning players will feature the play of Snyder, Hutchins, Jackson, Montgomery, Ditt, and Burnett. After all, that’s
“nuff said.”

Since it's an old Raleigh custom to divulge secrets about the coming hurricane, the N. C. Wolfpack, it’s only fair
to voice the opinions of the supporting Raleigh commentators. Even though we find a Mastrolia, a Berlinski, a Siniscalchi, etc.,
by far the most reputable gridiron warrior on the team goes by the Anglo-Saxon name of Everett Robinson.
(Continued on page 6)

Touch Football Begins Intra-Mural Activities

The Intramural tag football season will get under way Wednesday, September 25, with a game between the Seniors and the
Freshmen. The captains of this year’s teams have been announced as follows: Seniors, Carlyle Lewis; Juniors, Kenneth Knorr; Sophomores, A.
C. Cline; and Freshmen, J. W. Hickman. The schedule of games for the next week is as follows: Seniors vs.
Freshmen, Wednesday, Sept. 25; Juniors vs. Sophomores, Thursday, Sept. 26; Seniors vs. Sophomores, Friday, Sept. 27; Juniors vs. Freshmen, Monday,
Sept. 30; Seniors vs. Juniors, Tuesday, October 1; and Sophomores vs. Freshmen, Wednesday, October 2.

The seniors won the intramural football competition last year.

Left to Right: “Doc” Newton, “Chet” Chapman, and Gene McEver.

Over Twenty Prizes Contributed By Local Firms Await Competitors

Freshmen hailing from California to the Atlantic Ocean will toe their marks next Tuesday afternoon to start the annual Freshman
Cake Race. Officials in charge expressed the desire to have every first-year man, excepting those men out for freshmen football
and those excused from exercise due to physical disabilities, participate in this event. Twenty-five rewards will await the same number
of men to cross the final line first. The course, stretching out one and seven-tenths miles over the surrounding countryside,
starts in front of Richardson's Memorial Stadium and winds over the golf course to Gray's Road, up a gruelling hill
to Concord Road and finishes in front of Richardson Stadium. The prizes, consisting of free shoe-shines, haircuts, movie passes, five-pound
cakes, meal tickets, etc., are to be contributed by the boarding houses and local merchants who furnish these prizes as
incentives for the men to try harder to capture a place which carries a prize with it. Mainly from the
showings, Coach Whittle will pick his freshmen cross-country team for the fall meets. The record for the course, held by
Earl Frazier of the class of '36, is nine minutes, thirty-five and five-tenths seconds. William Cox of the class of
'37 won two years ago and Rick White won last year’s race.

Lewis Captures Tennis Trophies This Summer

Carlyle Lewis, local king of the courts, conducted an extensive campaign in tennis circles this summer and annexed a number
of titles not tomention a total of in tournaments throughout the state. Carlyle defeated Joe Grier of Charlotte for both
the city title and the Charlotte Country Club title, while attending six cups various summer school here at Davidson. Upon
the termination of school both Carlyle and Henry Cassady of Davidson left for Wilmington to participate in the Wilmington Tourney
which featured some of the leading players in the south. Although Lewis lost in the finals to John Vernon of
Burlington, former Wake Forest star, the three sets were so hotly contested that the outcome remained doubtful until the termination
of the set point. Cassady and Lewis entered the Doubles tourney together but were disposed of early in the meet.
Later, in the early part of September, Carlyle entered the First Annual North Carolina Tennis Championship held at Sedgefield. Seeded
No. 3, Carlyle put up a splendid exhibition and defeated all (Continued on page 6)

A TRADITION OF DAVIDSON MEN

Johnson’s Barber Shop

Four Out of Five College Men Come Here

Freshmen To Take Part In Annual Cake Race Tuesday

STATISTICS OF GAME

Davidson-Elon statistics:
Yards from scrimmage: Davidson 123, Elon 36.
First downs: Davidson 7, Elon 3.
Passes attempted: Davidson 8, Elon 14.
Passes completed: Davidson 3, Elon 3.
Yardage from passes: Davidson 36, Elon 22.
Total yardage gained: Davidson 159, Elon 58.
Penalties: Davidson 25, Elon 20.
Average length of punts: Davidson 34, Elon 32.
Average kickoffs: Davidson 20, Elon 36.
Average punt returns: Davidson 18, Elon 11.
Average kickoff returns: Davidson 12, Elon 8.

Track Candidates Begin Active Year

Major Track Events Slated Early In October

Trials for entrance into Sigma Delta Psi, the national honorary athletic fraternity, will be held at Davidson during the first
week in October, coincident with the Decathlon; all students in the college are eligible for both of these. The following
are the qualifications for entrance into Sigma Delta Psi: 100 yds. in 11 3/5 secs.; 120 yds. low hurdles—16 secs.;
high jump—5 ft.; broad jump—17 ft.; shot put—according to individual weight; rope climb—8 4/5 secs.; baseball throw—250 ft. or javelin
throw—130 ft.; football punt—120 ft.; 100 yds. swim—1 min. and 45 secs.; mile run—6 mins.; hand stand—10 secs.; fence vault—chin
high.

At the same time as trials for Sigma Delta Psi, the Decathlon will take place. Every entry is allowed to
enter as many of the 14 events as he wishes, but cannot pick more than ten for which he will
receive points. There is a qualifying time or distance for everything, and any person who passes the qualifications will receive
a certain number of points. If his time or distance is better than that set as a minimum, more points
are allotted to him, the number according to his excellence. In this manner the best all-round track man is discovered,
as well as giv- (Continued on page 6)

FROSH GRIDMEN SHOW PROMISE

Coaches Predict Wildkitten Team To Overshadow Last Year’s Eleven

The outlook for freshmen football this season is very promising, the team should really go places this year. Coach Laird
and Parks Harrison have been working the men every afternoon, sizing up the players, teaching them plays and stressing blocking
and tackling. The boys are slowly rounding into shape for their opening game to be played here against Darlington. Prospects
for the team are as follows: Ends—Hicks, Iverson and McClelland. Tackles—Warden, Edwards, McMullen and Moore. Guards—Miller, Gastiger, Ellis. Centers—Able and
McCall. Backfield—Steere, Stair, Harrison, Rudisell, Mauney, Hand, Plonk, Edgerton, Brown and Hunt. The backfield has plenty of speed but are
short in weight, while the line is fairly heavy. In practice, Steere and Stair have proved themselves capable punters, while
Harrison and Stair (a southpaw) have been doing some nice passing. It is our belief that when these boys have
played more together that a smooth team will be formed. The Kittens will miss Rudisell, Hand and Mauney in the
first game as these boys were members of the Gaston County baseball team which won the little world series and
will attend the big series the week of the initial game. Injuries have retarded hard practice, so therefore little positive
information is available. A number of games have been carded for the Freshmen this year including contests with the State
and Duke Frosh, V. P. I. Frosh, Darlington Prep, and one or two other teams. The games with Duke and
V. P. I. will be played at Durham and Blacksburg, respectively, while State will meet the Kittens here. Fred Koury,
former All-State end for Greensboro High School last year, worked out with the local team for several days but had
some difficulty making up his mind about where to attend school. After leaving here Fred went to Elon and played
as an end against Davidson here Saturday.

Former Wildcat Stars Hold Various Pro Jobs

Davidson will never forget the many outstanding athletes of last year who made themselves popular all over the south for
their brilliant ability on sport fields. Many of these outstanding men have been assigned to regular jobs of coaching and
professional football playing, while others have become teachers. Some of these outstanding men have been found doing the following: Johnny
Mackorell, football star for the last three years, was signed at the beginning of the summer to coach at the
Gastonia High School in Gastonia but, due to a better contract that he was offered later in the summer, he
signed to play professional football for the New York Giants. He is working under a $2,000 contract. “Big Jim” Morgan,
former Wildcat football, basketball, and baseball star, has taken the job as coach of Gastonia High. (Continued on page 6)

WHITE DRUG CO.

SODA FOUNTAIN

Stationery

School Supplies

DAVIDSON MEN OLD AND NEW MEET THEIR FRIENDS

DAVIDSON WILDCATS WIN FIRST GAME OF SEASON OVER HEAVY ELON TEAM

Number of Sophomores Show Up Well in Their First Varsity Game

FIRST GAME ENDS 7-0

“Teeny” Lafferty Scores Winning Touchdown For Davidson

The 1935 version of the Davidson Wildcats took the gridiron on a blistering hot Saturday afternoon and showed their superiority
over a heavier Elon eleven to the tune of a 7-0 victory for the 'Cats. With less than a minute
to play in the first half, “Teeny” Lafferty, flashy sophomore back, swept wide around left end behind a perfect interference
to the ten yard marker, where he left his blockers, shook off four would-be tacklers, and crossed the double stripe
for the only touchdown of the afternoon. Pittman kicked the extra point. Lafferty, playing his first varsity game as an
understudy for “Midge” Verble, was sent in about two minutes before the half time. On the tenth play after he
was sent in, he scored. The lines of the two teams were pretty evenly balanced in weight, but the Wildcat
linemen showed greater strength in the latter part of the game, when they opened enormous holes in the Elon wall.
In the Christian line, Hartsell and Tausett caused the Red and Black machine the most trouble. Dick Johnson and Morris
Freeman threw the Elon backs for numerous losses. Newsome and Abbitt furnished Elon’s offensive drive, and Jack Stallings shone brilliantly
on defense. The best 'Cat backfield combination seemed to be that composed of Fred Dennis and “Teeny” Lafferty, sophomores from
Concord, and Paul Pittman of Barium Springs. Coach “Peahead” Walker’s touted passing attack was so well checked by Coach Doc
Newton's 6-2-2-1 defense that the Christians completed only three out of fourteen attempted passes, and those for only twenty-two yards.
In the meantime, Davidson completed two passes out of eight for a total gain of thirty-six yards. Elon’s real threat
of the game came (Continued on page 6)

DISTINCTIVE FABRICS

Quality Tailored to your Individual Measure

Come in and browse around. Here you'll find the finest selection of quality fabrics, in an eye appealing variety of
patterns from the world’s foremost looms. Custom Tailored—Authentically Styled for you at most reasonable prices.

Mal Grimes and Dick Johnson
Campus Representatives

Measurements by Bill Hardee, Formerly with Hardee-Holden Co., Charlotte, N. C.
