THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 20, 1935

The Davidsonian
Founded by the Class of 1915

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Printed by the QUEEN CITY PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate year.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879.

ARTICLES FOR PUBLICATION must be in the hands of Managing Editors by 4:00 o'clock p.m., Monday. Letters to the Editor are welcome, but all communications intended for publication must be signed.

J. A. C. WADSWORTH ... Editor
Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
MARTIN BARNETT ... Managing Editor
PAUL HARLAN ... Managing Editor
TOM MARCHANT ... Managing Editor
JOHN WALKER ... Managing Editor
LAMONT BROWN ... Sports Editor
PHIL BOWERS ... Exchange Editor
CARLYLE LEWIS ... Feature Editor
SCOTTY McLEOD ... Feature Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
BILL GOSLEN ... Asst. Business Mgr.
VAN CASSELS ... Asst. Business Mgr.
TOM ROSS ... Asst. Business Mgr.
J. S. McMULLEN ... Asst. Business Mgr.
IRV RICHMORROW ... Asst. Business Mgr.

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 20, 1935

Truly, this world can get on without us, if we would but think so.—Longfellow.

We deem it wise at this time to put before the student body the names of the candidates that will be eligible for editorship of The Davidsonian. This is done in advance of the election so that the voters will be familiar with the names of the eligible men and so that some study might be made of the past work of each of these men. The Davidsonian election will come directly after the Y. M. C. A. elections.

By virtue of their work on this paper for the past three years, the following men are declared eligible for editorship:
MARTIN BARNETT
LAMONT BROWN
HARVEY GLASS
PAUL HARLAN
TOM MARCHANT
JOHN WALKER

Managing editors for next year will be elected from the rising Junior Class by the present managing editors.

McCLURE TO SERVE SECOND TERM

Students, alumni, and friends of Davidson College will be very glad to hear that Albert McClure will come back here again next year as Y. M. C. A. Secretary, the duties of which job he has so successfully discharged this year. “Ab” or “Mac” as he is commonly known on the campus, graduated from Davidson with the class of ‘31. The next three years he spent at Union Theological Seminary preparing for the ministry. When he came here last Fall he was somewhat at a disadvantage, due to the fact that he knew hardly any of the students. In past years this job has been filled by a man who had graduated from Davidson only one or two years previous which made it possible for him to renew old acquaintances with students who were in school at least a year while he was. However, this did not prove to be much of a handicap to Albert McClure. His job as “Y” Secretary brought him in contact with many students, and his friendly and jovial personality was quick to win for him many friends. Today he is popularly known by practically everyone on the campus. His first year’s work has been very successful. His years of experience have been more than helpful to those who have gone to him for guidance and advice. He has earnestly and faithfully endeavored with the “Y” Cabinet in all its problems. The Y. M. C. A. is indeed fortunate in securing for another year the services of a man so well fitted for the position and we wish him continued success in his work here next year.

WE CAN BLAME IT ON SPRING FEVER NOW

As Davidson is “in the country, spring is the most delightful part of all the year”—so reads a college authority. And in many ways our author is right. The approach of the vernal equinox brings new life to a multitude of campus activities. Once again the tennis court and baseball diamond claim large numbers, the links gain new adherents, and track demands its share of student attention. True, we no longer indulge in such bucolic sports as horseshoes or marbles, but the gullies invite exploration, and the omnipresent “bull session” calls us. Everywhere there is a wholesome exuberance, an interest in the world outdoors, and a feeling of relief, an escape from the pent-up existence of a rainy winter. This is an excellent spirit and conducive to good health. A love of nature is extremely beneficial to physical well-being, but there is a tendency on the part of many of our students to love nature just a little bit too fiercely. All play and no work certainly do not “make Jack,” neither do they prepare us for that vocation. And theoretically college is supposed to prepare one for making a living. When one’s love of nature, love of anything else, leads to a day-long distant or an all-night “bull session” on the dormitory porch, we feel that he has a little too much of a good thing. To get to the heart of the matter, a certain very insidious disease is now raging on the campus with a wholly demoralizing effect on the field of scholastic endeavor. We are suffering from an epidemic of spring fever. Were it possible to guard against the attack of this monster by inoculation, our problem would be solved. Unfortunately, no serum yet discovered has any effect on spring fever bacilli. The most industrious and unsuspecting are subject to violent attacks of this malady, without a moment’s notice. Often accompanied by marked soporific tendencies, it always results in long periods of enforced idleness, together with a curious combination of lassitude and apathy. Will-power and a grim determination are the only remedies in such a case. If you have not yet fallen victim, by all means gird for battle and prepare to stave off this menace to intellectual and even (in the advanced stages) physical development. There is no logical reason why the middle of the second semester should mark the beginning of a scholastic decline. We have no valid excuse for remaining on the proverbial dime, sleeping while Rome burns, to the total neglect of those duties which are, after all, our chief reason for being here. Now is the time for all good men to snap out of it! Come on, prove to the faculty and world at large that Davidson men can not only “take it,” but “dish it out”!

PARAGRAPHICS

Congratulations to Carlton Chapman, Carl Carlson, Tom Corbin, and Kiesewetter on their recent election. We feel that the student body has made wise choices in all these men. Chapman’s job as president of the student body is one that is exceedingly difficult, but we have confidence in his ability. Being president of the student body entails far greater responsibility than merely reading announcements during the chapel hour. It carries with it responsibilities of a serious and varied nature which are really more than one man should have to bear.

Apparently, the Junior Class last weekend was quite a success. We do not understand, however, why this set of dances should continue to be called “Junior Speaking.” There was a time when the name really meant what it implies, but under the present circumstances the word “speaking” does not have the least connection with the weekend of dancing.

We would like to bring an old issue to life again. Some time ago, there appeared an editorial in The Davidsonian requesting that the library be kept open on Saturday nights. The request was granted and the library was kept open two or three Saturday nights, but after that, the new policy was soon discontinued for some unknown reason. Although only a relatively small number of students used the library on the Saturday nights it was kept open, it met with popular approval. We still see no reason why the library shouldn’t be kept open on Saturday nights.

THE COLLEGIATE REVIEW

Bothered by students who continually requested a certain record to be played, David Burne, University of Arkansas (Fayetteville), announcer at station KUOA, Fayetteville, ended it all by smashing the record over the mike. The piece was “I Need Lovin.”

Gertrude Stein (a rose is etc.) recently had her first experience as a debate chairman at the University of Chicago.

It will be “Hell on Earth” at the Lafayette College (Easton, Pa.) Junior Prom. At least, that’s the scene the decorations will depict.

Sally Rand, of fan dance fame, was once a student in the school of journalism at Columbia University (New York City).

COMPASSING THE CAMPUS
By Scotty McLeod

The juniors are through making their speeches. Bill Allsbrook won the grand prize as speaker, but Geddie was a close second. Munroe spoke in honeyed tones before an amazed audience at the Armory; Allsbrook made quite a number of speeches. He had more volume than Munroe, but less distinct articulation. Several of the debates reached a heated point after the affair, but all were reminded that the judge’s decision is final.

Charlotte city’s new dip-the-finger joint for frolicking collegians is the Wooden Bowl. The Sons of Minerva, as Wimpy Ravenel calls the S. A. E. lodge, held a banquet there on Saturday eve at which they practically initiated Skip Brown, Hippo Heggie, and several others. Ras Evans, famous dash man, returned to the old Alma Mater for the weekend. Other alumni on tap were Wee Willie Walser, one of the original Country Gentlemen; Flash Ormond, now studying for the ministry in Richmond; Jeff Robbins, who is working for the government alphabet-clubs in Raleigh, and M. B. Wallace, Brewster Grant.

We have just been reading Miss C. R. Shaw’s history of Davidson College, an interesting story of the “origin, growth and development” of the school. There are several in the alumni office for readers who don’t know how Davidson got this way.

Three Taps at Twelve will be featured by the Red and Black Masquers Friday night. Some of the Barrymores are Field Horine, Fred Purnell,Dick Hillier, Joe Dees, and Sky Cline. It will be a murder headliner and should present thrills. Hope that Davidson orchestra (Billie Crooks, Chubby King, et al) will be there for intermission. Fort and Blackwelder are getting off to big-time competition, leaving today for Lehigh University where they will show the national college wrestlers’ group just what they can do. Champions in North Carolina, these two should be in on the pinning at Lehigh. One of the closest election races in many years has just ended. Carlton Chapman succeeds Skip Brown as president of the college group. Last year Brown was elected on the first ballot by an overwhelming stack of votes. Very seldom is there a class where one man stands out so predominantly as Brown in the class of '35. Chapman will be an able successor. Monday afternoon a fire of unknown origin blazed up in Willie Coffin’s room on third-floor Watts. Coffin walked in the room, and burst into laughter at all the burning clothes; he thought it was Atwater's room. Suddenly he realized that the room was his own, and made a frantic rush to douse the blaze, being assisted by Salty Peters and other hangers-around. Recent Greek elections will put Bill Coffin on the Pan-Hellenic Council for the Betas next year, and Reggie Harris will represent the Kappa Alphas on the inter-fraternity body. Lib Neill, of Marion, copped high honors in the beauty contest of Junior Speaking. She was with Ray Richardson, ladies’ man of the Phi Delts. Other girls who received votes were Jane Hashagen, Jane Robinson, Nancy Talbert (Herb Willis voted for her), and Jane Ellen Taylor. Numerous others, of course. Beda Carlson and Jane Shelton were in the running. Dean Dobie, of the University of Virginia, gave us a pleasant variation from the usual chapel program yesterday morning. His infinite resources in the field of law and language were displayed in one of the most entertaining talks we have heard. Aside from its value as good entertainment, the discourse was decidedly instructive to every college mind, particularly those who plan a legal career. What we want and need at Davidson is more speakers like Dean Dobie.

OUR CONTEMPORARIES By Eni Bowers

Hal Kemp-Glen Gray To Play at W & L Finals

Hal Kemp and his orchestra will play for the first two days of Finals, and Glen Gray and his Casa Loma Band will take their places for the final ball on June 7th. The blanket cost of the set will be $10.00 until May 15th, then the price will be raised to $13.50.

“Rah-Rah” Era in Colleges Past

“The rah-rah boy of yesterday,” long considered typical on the American campus, has taken his place in the gallery of dead Americana along with the flapper and speakeasy. His place on the campuses of colleges and universities in the United States has been taken by a more serious-minded person who is ambitious and hard working. Dr. Walter A. Jessup, president of the Carnegie Foundation, in its annual report characterizes the modern student as a “serious-minded person who gives intelligent cooperation to every progressive move.”

Not Much Choice

The University of Manitoba recently had a debate on the question, “Is an old maid more useful on a farm than a wheelbarrow?” After a heated battle the old maid lost by three votes.

Hangs on to Dueling

Marked popularity of university sports is still lacking in Germany. At the present date students consider dueling the only sport worthy of their efforts. University sports were first introduced into Germany about fourteen years ago by ex-soldiers.

Origins For Popular Sayings

I am strong for you, kid—Samson; You can’t keep a good fellow down—Jonah; The bigger they are the harder they fall—David; So this is Paris!—Helen of Troy; I don’t know where I’m going but I am on my way—Columbus; Keep the home fires burning—Nero; It floats—Noah; Keep your shirt on—Queen Elizabeth to Sir Walter Raleigh; Step on it, kid—Sir Walter Raleigh to her.

Whence Cameth the Harvard Accent?

Even Harvard is puzzled by the enigmatic problem: whence comes the “Harvard accent”? But the puzzle will soon be solved, for authorities there are reported to be ready to make phonograph records of the speech of entering freshmen and then again when they graduate.

Bread and Butter

A chemistry professor at Harvard recently won a bet that he could eat his shirt. He dissolved the garment in acid, filtered off the precipitate and spread it on a piece of bread. What Next?

At the Ohio State University they have invented a machine for grading exam papers. The student merely punches out his answers to the questions on a score card, which is sent through the machine. The machine scores each question, prints the number of mistakes and makes a complete record of the students who missed each point.

Sabotage

Aha! American students in German universities, it is said, when forced to salute Hitler demonstrations, raise their hands and shout, “Heel, Hitler.”

Dartmouth Requests

Through State Capital Keyholes By Bess Hinton Silver

SMART—A lot of folks think proponents of the Hill liquor bill played a smart hand when they sent the measure to the Senate finance committee for reconsideration. It is pointed out that the state revenue and appropriations bills are about two million dollars out of balance and legislative pay has ended. Some observers believe the liquor bill, which would permit twelve or more counties to vote for state-operated liquor stores, will repose in the money committee until the anticipated 100-day deadlock on the revenue bill occurs. Then the Hill bill could be trotted out to balance the budget for the next two years. Already pending is an amendment which would put liquor taxes and profits in the general state instead of earmarking it for relief purposes as set forth in the bill.

TALKS AGAINST VOTE—It was generally agreed that Senator Horton, of Chatham, made the most unusual talk on the Hill liquor bill in the Senate. The Chatham lawmaker said he was voting against the measure because his constituents seemed to want it, but warned drys that they “must take their heads out of the sand and face the true facts” concerning liquor conditions in this state. He said he was disappointed in the small votes cast in the 1933 repeal election but added he did not propose to take it upon himself to do for the people what they failed to do for themselves when the opportunity was at hand.

The Senior class of Dartmouth College recently endorsed three curriculum reforms: a course in marriage, abolition of the present marking system, and unlimited cuts from classes.

Education a La Nazi

The German universities were the most famous in the world about 50 years ago, and they were almost as renowned two years ago, but now they have sunk to a terribly low ebb, according to The Richmond Times-Dispatch. Few subjects can be studied in Germany today without running afoul of Nazi doctrine at one point or another. A law was enacted recently which empowers the government to transfer professors from one university to another whenever it wishes to do so.

Collegiana:

McClelland Barclay has accepted the invitation to judge the beauty section for The Citadel annual this year... The University of Virginia has organized a police corps with two divisions, one for the protection of the students from theft and the other for the protection of college property... An organization known as “The Stray Greeks” has been started at Purdue for men and women transfers who were members of Greek letter organizations not represented on the campus... While working in the Tulane University Medical School dissecting laboratory, a student discovered his father’s head... A Columbia University correspondent reports that a statistician claims that nine out of every ten women are knock-kneed.

The Senior class of Dartmouth College recently endorsed three curriculum reforms: a course in marriage, abolition of the present marking system, and unlimited cuts from classes.

Education a La Nazi

The German universities were the most famous in the world about 50 years ago, and they were almost as renowned two years ago, but now they have sunk to a terribly low ebb, according to The Richmond Times-Dispatch. Few subjects can be studied in Germany today without running afoul of Nazi doctrine at one point or another. A law was enacted recently which empowers the government to transfer professors from one university to another whenever it wishes to do so.

Collegiana:

McClelland Barclay has accepted the invitation to judge the beauty section for The Citadel annual this year... The University of Virginia has organized a police corps with two divisions, one for the protection of the students from theft and the other for the protection of college property... An organization known as “The Stray Greeks” has been started at Purdue for men and women transfers who were members of Greek letter organizations not represented on the campus... While working in the Tulane University Medical School dissecting laboratory, a student discovered his father’s head... A Columbia University correspondent reports that a statistician claims that nine out of every ten women are knock-kneed.

NEWS of Years Gone By

FIVE YEARS AGO

Junior class team wins intramural track meet... Athletic Night to be held... President of student body elected... Baseball season opens with game with Georgetown University... Dr. McAllister speaks at vespers... Chapter of national honorary German society to be organized... Joan Crawford in Montana Moon... Golf team gets in shape... Frank Price visits campus... Faculty team loses to varsity golfers... Forensic Council elects officers.

TEN YEARS AGO

D Club holds initiations... Golf team to meet Georgia Tech... Freshman baseball squad shows promise... Track team gets in shape... Fraternities to build own houses... Y president elected... Union Seminary deputation to Davidson... Annual soph banquet in Charlotte... Tennis tournament in process... Twenty-three make honor roll... Phi Beta Kappa elect four... Basketball men awarded letters.

FIFTEEN YEARS AGO

Davidson host to N. C. Volunteer Union... Golf tournament to be held... Government inspector visits R. O. T. C. department... Baseball team gets in shape for first game... Shields publishes music of “O Davidson”... Magician appears on lyceum program... Elect editor-in-chief of The Davidsonian... Sixteen games booked for baseball season... Golf club elects officers... Sunday School attendance contest nears close... O. D. K. initiates five... Plan war memorial.

Commencement Invitations Fraternity Publications Visiting Cards Personal and Fraternity Stationery

K. D. WEEKS Fine Printing QUEEN CITY PRINTING CO. 1143 E. FOURTH ST. CHARLOTTE, N. C. JOE WADSWORTH Representatives