THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 27, 1935

NATHAN SPEAKS ON RADIO HOUR
Prominent Economist Speaks On Knowledge Gained From Depression

In lieu of the weekly musical radio program, Davidson had the honor of having as guest-speaker on the Davidson hour Dr. Otto Nathan, prominent international economist. Dr. Nathan was visiting the college as a speaker of the I. R. C. convention. He was introduced to his audience by Dr. Archibald Currie, professor of political science. According to Dr. Currie, Nathan was born and educated in Germany, and after the war rapidly forged his way to the top of the statistical bureau in his native country. In 1930 he made a lecture tour of America, serving as guest-lecturer in New York University and the University of Pennsylvania. After returning to his native country, he made another trip to America in 1933, and has been in this country ever since. At present he is on the faculty of Princeton University.

In his introduction, Dr. Nathan brought out that we are passing through a period of madness, a period conforming to the 1914-1918 period, which proved to thinking men that mankind has not yet learned to administer to the world. He said that we should let the experiences of the last several years teach us lessons for the future. Sounding a note of cheer, he stated that all evidence points to one fact—we have reached and passed the lowest period of the depression.

For the body of the lecture, Dr. Nathan took two points and developed each from several angles. His first point was, “What can we learn from the depression?” Regarding this, he showed that the depression has revealed that politics and economics are closely tied together. Their development is simultaneous. This depression has been world-wide and has shown us that the world as a whole is an economic and trade unit. Problems must be solved on an international basis. We have completely failed in international economic relations heretofore. After world recovery has been achieved, there are three problems to be faced: 1—A restoration of an international currency system; 2—A resumption of foreign trade; 3—Planned economy is impossible in our present individualistic capitalistic system. In conclusion, Dr. Nathan emphasized the fact that no lasting economy is possible if we do not change the international political outlook. “We should be citizens of the world,” he said.

Among the GREEKS

All the Greek letter social fraternities on the campus this week have been hosts to many parties, feeds, and other social entertainments for the International Relations Club Convention here. Many delegates expressed their high opinion and praises of gratitude for these courtesies shown to them.

Beta Theta Pi: A very enjoyable feed was attended by many of the brothers last Sunday night. Plans have and are being made for repairs on the walk, lawn, and furniture in the house.

Pi Kappa Alpha: “Barney” Sherrill from Vanderbilt University was the visiting alumnus over the weekend. A party is to be given by the Beta Chapter Saturday, March 2.

Kappa Sigma: The initiation is to be very soon for the Delta Chapter. A feed was given last Sunday night at the lodge.

Phi Gamma Delta: The initiation was held in the dome room of Chambers last Saturday afternoon at four o'clock. The following were initiated: W. Owen Cooke, Greensboro; Irving S. Bull, Winston-Salem; J. Ernest Dooley, Jr., Knoxville, Tenn.; James K. Dorsett, Jr., Salisbury; Elie J. Ganier and Gene B. Ganier, Hollandale, Miss.; Lawrence Reid, Winston-Salem; Elmore Holt, Greensboro; Joseph J. McNabb, Cleveland, Tenn.; and Robert Gregory, Westfield, N. J. The annual Norris Pig Dinner held in Charlotte at six o'clock at the S & W Cafeteria was attended by the following alumni: Andrew Bird, John Creech and John Foster, Winston-Salem; Charles Moore, Charlotte; Sam Preston, Baltimore, Md.; “Pete” Dunford; Clarence Leake, Greensboro; Dr. Thomas W.

BUFF SHOE SHOP
“When It’s Done BY BUFF That Says Enough”

SPONSORING DRIVE FOR UNIFORMS
BAND NEEDS YOUR CONTRIBUTIONS

Next Friday night Davidson College's Concert Band will give a program in Chambers Auditorium, the second of its kind in the last two years, for the purpose of raising funds for uniforms. There will be no admission charge made, but a free-will offering will be taken from the audience after the program, the proceeds of which will go toward the purchase of uniforms.

It is indeed regrettable to know that for the past four or five years the Davidson Band has been without special uniforms and in their stead has been forced to use the R. O. T. C. equipment for all occasions. However, for the past two years the lack of uniforms has become vastly more evident, for in these two years this organization has developed by leaps and bounds into one of the best and largest of its kind in the state if not in the South. In one year it has increased in size from fifty to eighty pieces. During the past football season the Davidson Band received much favorable comment in the newspapers for their excellent performances at the games. It has been superior in every respect but its appearance. A band which has gained such recognition should have an appearance on a par with its excellence. A neat, uniform appearance would not only stimulate more interest on the part of the spectators, but it would also better the morale of the players.

It is sincerely hoped that it will not be a matter of two or three years longer before this band can be equipped properly, but that the students, alumni and friends will be liberal in their contributions so that uniforms can be bought in the near future.

The following are a few opinions concerning the band's drive for uniforms:

Grier Martin, alumni secretary: “It seems to me that the band uniform situation at Davidson is analogous to the housing of a fine Lincoln motor in a poor chassis. You couldn't expect the Lincoln to make a very good showing no matter how smoothly the motor ran. Neither can we expect our band to make a good appearance although in performance it is recognized as one of the best in the country.”

Captain N. G. Pritchett, athletic director: “It is my opinion that distinctive uniforms should contribute greatly to our band morale and also tend to make its public appearances more colorful and attractive.”

Bob Smith, editor of Quips and Cranks: “It is a pleasure to be permitted to have a say for so worthy a cause as that of providing a very deserving band with the physical equipment their excellent performance merits. Though Davidson does not pride itself primarily on its superiority in appearance, I nevertheless fail to see any necessity for flaunting our complete disdain for such at football games in the form of an assortment of ill-fitting, unbecoming R. O. T. C. uniforms.”

Dewey Hutchins, president of Davidson's “D” Club: “Since the band has received much praise for its excellent performances, I think everyone will agree that it is the

Science Students Witness Pictures

Thursday night, February 21, in the Chemistry Laboratory Building, students in the various sciences were shown six reels of scientific motion pictures. All the pictures were silent, but accompanied by full printed explanation. The first pictures were two reels illustrating the growth of cotton, from the seed to the mature plant, and then the different processes through which it was taken to produce the finished product. The next two reels gave the story of sugar, from the seed of the sugar cane plant to the final refining of the sugar itself. The last two reels illustrated the dangers that accompany the obtaining of drinking water and public drinking cups. It presented arguments proving the undesirability of dippers (aluminum) and tin cups usually found at public drinking places. This was the third in a series of pictures to be shown this semester for the benefit of students in chemistry, biology and physics.

United in spirit and aim
Never failing in loyalty to Christ
Initiative in Biblical research
Onward pressing to universal brotherhood
Neglecting never to follow the Light.
Spiritually-minded; Scripturally-living
Endeavoring to uphold His commands
Nearness to truthful recreation
Reaching out in service
UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY
RICHMOND, VA.
Always seeking spiritual progress
Yearning to bring all to Him!

Dr. Lingle Speaks To Gathering Of Deacons

Dr. W. L. Lingle, president of the college, made a talk last Sunday evening in the Presbyterian Church of Rock Hill, S.C., to a gathering of three hundred deacons and church workers of the Bethel Presbytery. His subject was, “The Qualifications and Duties of Deacons.” He read scriptural references to the character and the work of the men chosen as deacons in the church, and told those assembled that “a great opportunity and a great responsibility rests upon you as servants of the living God.”

Dr. Lingle also made two other talks during the past week. He spoke Thursday evening to a group of 150 young people of the First Presbyterian Church of Spartanburg, S.C.Best that has ever been at Davidson. If this statement is true, then surely the band this year is compelled to wear colorful uniforms for all public appearances. This need is great, as was manifested this past fall by the appearances of the various college bands on our campus. This need can only be realized by a constant appeal to friends. I am sure it is a deserving organization, and the needed uniforms would give a unity of dress which is an essential element of a truly fine band.

Statistics On Student Body Sent To Observer

In the Observer, it was revealed that of the 650 students enrolled this semester, 55 of them are from Charlotte. The remainder of the student body is made up of boys from eight foreign countries and 26 states. Among the boys from Charlotte in school at Davidson are Henry Cathey, co-captain of the 1935 football team; Fred McPhail, captain of the track team and president of the Senior class; Karle Frazier, holder of state track records and star runner; Lorenzo McPhail, editor of the Vow! and gymnastic champion.

The list of members of the Senior and Junior classes who are from Charlotte includes W. M. Bogart, C. D. Deans, G. G. Lingle, and W. A. Cumming. Brother Bird was the toastmaster. At the feed Sunday night, some new songs were learned by the Delta Chapter. Brothers J. B. Goslin and Bill Northern had just returned from a trip to Florida.

Phi Delta Theta: The Gamma Chapter had a most enjoyable feed last Sunday with almost all the Brothers present.

Sigma Phi Epsilon: Formal initiation by the Epsilon Chapter will be Thursday, February 28, in the lodge at 7:30.

NO SHORT-CUTS IN HANES SHORTS!

Hanes cuts their shorts to the size the label says. They’re big enough to let you bend and reach without any gripping or ripping!

POPULAR PRICES
LONG WEAR SERVICE
HANES Shirts, Shorts, Union-Suits for Men and Boys
P. H. HANES KNITTING COMPANY
WINSTON-SALEM

Around Town

The North American Legion Auxiliary held its February meeting Tuesday afternoon at Caldwell Station, with the president, Mrs. E. N. Linker of Davidson, presiding. Mrs. George B. Watts, music chairman, had charge of the program. A social hour followed the business meeting, at which time refreshments were served by Mrs. W. J. Ranson and Miss Nell Ranson of Huntersville.

Brown, professor of economics, spoke to the Rotary Club of Belmont, Wednesday at its weekly luncheon meeting. He discussed the uncertainty that characterizes present business conditions.

The Woman's Auxiliary of the Presbyterian Church met in the church Thursday afternoon. Mrs. Edward Erwin discussed “Retrospect and Prospect in Africa.” In the business meeting that followed, Mrs. W. N. Mebane was elected president and Mrs. O. J. Thies, treasurer, for the coming year.

Mrs. Eugene McEver entertained at a tea at her home Tuesday afternoon, in honor of Mrs. J. F. McIver of Bristol, Va., who is visiting Coach and Mrs. McIver.

The Sorosis Club met at the home of Mrs. G. S. Lilly. The members returned to their homes in Raleigh and Fayetteville after a visit with Mrs. Ben Burwell.

At the weekly meeting of the Davidson Hi-Y, held Thursday evening, Prof. Odell spoke on “Trustworthiness.” Plans were made for basketball games with Sherrill’s Ford, Derita High School, and Denver, N.C. After the basketball season, letters will be awarded.

Mrs. Thomas Watkins was hostess to the As You Like It Club Friday evening. An interpretative recital on Beethoven's opera, “Fidelio,” was given by Mrs. Watkins.

Mrs. Callie Brown and Mrs. Margaret Carter entertained at a luncheon for a few of their friends Thursday at one o'clock.

Mrs. Errett Straley, soprano of Winston-Salem, who assisted in the musical vesper service Sunday, was a weekend guest of Professor and Mrs. J. Gordon Brown.

President of the student body of Davidson, J. Gordon Brown, delivered an address at the bi-weekly luncheon meeting of the Charlotte Engineers Club at Efird’s College, Monday, in the private dining room.

Rev. McDowell Richards, and his little son, of Decatur, Ga., spent a few days this past week with Dr. and Mrs. C. M. Richards.

EXHIBIT IN LIBRARY

The current exhibit in the library exhibition case is a collection of stamps belonging to H. Woodward, '37. A complete set of the 1934 National Park series (in imperforated sets), naval cancellations of the first and the last day of service, antebellum letters, and Confederate stamps comprise the philatelic exhibit.

Broadway Theatre
Charlotte, N.C.

Showing This Week
Rudy VALLEE in “SWEET MUSIC” with Ann Dvorak

JOINT CONCERT GIVEN THURSDAY

Glee Club And Salon Orchestra Present Concert At Mitchell College

The Davidson College Glee Club and Salon Orchestra gave a joint concert last Thursday evening in the college auditorium at Mitchell College in Statesville. The entire program was under the direction of James C. Pfohl, head of the music department, and Warren Babcock, assistant professor, rendered two 'cello solos. The program presented at Mitchell was as follows:

Ave Maria—Hear My Prayer, Arcadelt; Lo, How a Rose E'er Blooming, Praetorius; Ye Watchers and Ye Holy Ones, German Melody—Glee Club.
Liebesleid, Kreisler; Rondino, Beethoven—Warren Babcock, 'cellist.
Little David, Play on Yo’ Harp, Spiritual; De Gospel Train, Spiritual—Glee Club.
Sleeping Beauty Waltzes, Tchaikovsky; In a Persian Market, Ketelby—Salon Orchestra.
Olaf Trygvason—Land Sighting, Grieg; Dear Land of Home—from Finlandia, Sibelius; Entrance and March of the Peers from “Iolanthe,” Sullivan—Glee Club.

Observer Runs Article By Davidson Alumnus

Last Sunday, February 17, there appeared in the feature department of the Charlotte Observer an article by Skippy McNeill, class of 1934, entitled “The Economic Background and Bearing of Chief Justice and Great Marshals Decisions.” This paper was prepared in conjunction with his classwork in American biography. Another article by the same writer is expected to appear in the feature department of next Sunday's Observer. This one is entitled “Madison, the Father of the Constitution.” Both of these articles were written last year. Richard Banks, a member of the same class, had an article appear in the Charlotte Sunday Observer last May on “The Mecklenburg Declaration of Independence.” While at Davidson, McNeill was affiliated with a number of clubs and societies. He graduated with a B.S. degree in science.

Nine New Men Bid By Gamma Sigma Epsilon

At the last meeting of Gamma Sigma Epsilon, the local chapter of the national honorary chemistry fraternity, bids were issued to nine prominent juniors and seniors. Prospective members of the club must have maintained a high scholastic average in chemistry and must show an active personal interest in the science. The following men, adjudged on these requirements, were invited to join the fraternity: Dill Bogart, Erwin Chapman, John Coit, Philip Douglas, Gordon Green, Heath Howie, and F. M. Porter.

Ingredients of Vicks VapoRub in Convenient Candy Form
VICKS COUGH DROP

Wednesday-Thursday
JOE MORRISON fills his first feature with songs in the style that made “The Last Round-Up” famous!
with Helen Twelvetrees, Conrad Nagel

Friday-Saturday
“WHITE LIES” with Walter Connolly, Fay Wray

Opening Week of March 4
Edw. G. Robinson in the best picture he ever made “The Whole Town’s Talking”

Next Monday-Tuesday
“THE BAND PLAYS ON”
The All-American college romance of the year!
Robert Young, Betty Furness, Stuart Erwin, Leo Carillo

STATE THEATRE
CHARLOTTE, N.C.