| 4 ie D DELS D AVIDSONIAN

Sigma Pi Sigma Hears Howard
(Continued from Page 3)

important mathematical expressions and equations that are used by Physicists; Jan. 6, Prof. Fulcher, Crystal analysis and practical application of
same. Jan. 27, A. A. Kuhn, Recent advances in aviation; Diesel Engine, its principles, application, and future. Feb. 10, Open
Meeting, speaker to be announced later. Feb. 24, J. G. Willis, Rural electrification; M. Barnett, Need of Physics in Chemistry.
March 10, Dr. J. M. Douglas, Fundamental Concepts and principles of radio. March 24, J. T. Morrow, What physics business
men need to know; F. Parker, Problems of laboratory. These programs will not be current year, and further announcements will
be made in the future.

Defeated 12-6
(Continued from Page 3)

offense but defended their own ground stubbornly. Not until the third quarter did Davidson's chance arise. King returned a punt
over the field.

OVERCASH’S BARBER SHOP
THE MAN THAT IS WEARING OUR WORK

Rent A Car For the Week-End
M. P. HENDERSON
Gulf Gas and Oil

Davidson's defense smoothly and chances were even until a long pass was completed by a Campbell man near the goal
line in the last period. Soon after, the game ended without the Wildcats having an opportunity to tie the score
a second time. Nicholson, Thurston, and King played an outstanding game. Bixler and Quick shone in the Davidson backfield. Humphries,
Campbell back, was his team’s biggest threat. Twenty-two men played in the game for Davidson.

Touch Football Now in Finals
(Continued from page 4)

Ganier, McNabb, and Buddy Herb Willis, Booley Arrowsmith, and Mills Taylor shone for the Pi Kappa team. The only other
game played saw the Phi Delts beat the K.A.’s 6-0. John Par was the spearhead of the Phi Delt attack
aided by Buddy Rainey, Jim Stewart, Sam Barnes, George Bill Hutaff, Tom Downie, Joe Johnson, and Sandy Moffett. Harris, Hill
performed creditably for the K.A.’s.

Wildcats to Meet
(Continued from page 4)

halfbacks, who won the Millis Blocking Trophy which is awarded yearly to the man who shows the most proficiency in
blocking. Crowell Little, Asheville’s contribution to the Snavelymen, is considered to be the most elusive runner on the squad. He
has been out of the game so far this season due to minor injuries, but in the contest with Maryland
he played outstandingly, almost getting away for a touchdown run. Calling the signals for the Carolinians is Montgomery, who succeeds
Harry George Barclay. He is not only a good, intelligent man at the signals, but also has the quality of
being a good blocker. The Tar Heels will suffer the loss of John Sniscak, the key man of the Carolina
line who has been declared ineligible due to his playing with Catholic University before entering North Carolina. Jim Hutchins, fullback,
co-captain Herman Snyder, Crowell Little, and Art Ditt received slight injuries in the game last Saturday, but will probably be
in shape for the tilt with the Wildcats. The Wildcats received no serious damage in the game with the Gamecocks,
and will come out Saturday in first-class shape to do their best work against the Tar Heels.

How to Appreciate Football Strategy
(Continued from Page 4)

There are two main systems in football today, the Notre Dame system, featuring speed, and the Warner system, utilizing tremendous
power sweeps. Remember that the Notre Dame system is always aiming for the perfect end play, shooting at the goal
line while the Warner system is more adapted to shorter, more consistent gains. Some of the glory must be taken
away from those heroic goal line stands that are so widely publicized. The defense is necessarily scattered in open field,
giving the offense a better opportunity to make long gains. But as a team...is backed against the bunched, presenting a
much more difficult obstacle to the offense. While you are cheering the underdog for his gallant stand, give some thought
to the task of the upperdog. The real secret of offensive football is blocking or interference. Watch how the blockers
clear a path for the runner, and keep an eye on the guards, who pull out of the line and
get into the interference on offensive plays. On a pass play, don’t watch the ball or the passer. Pay particular
attention to the eligible men going down the field. Watch how they fake, hesitate, wind a devious way to their
objective. Then, when the ball comes, see if it is leading the receiver so that he can pluck it from
the air without losing his stride. If a defensive man is racing with him, see if the ball comes on
the opposite side where the defensive man can't get it. If it does, you've watched a great pass.

Dr. W. L. Lingle Speaks On Italian Conditions
(Continued from Page 5)
liberty. These are a precious heritage and should not allow any man or any group of men to rob us
of these.”
“The man who said that ‘Eternal vigilance is the price of liberty’ was eternally right.”

Early English Bibles Displayed in Library
(Continued from Page 5)
first put down, however. The progress in the English Bible is given in part for reproductions and facsimiles of Wycliffe’s,
Tyndale’s, Coverdale’s, and other translations are shown. It would have been interesting to include the works by modern scholars in
the last twenty years.

F. R. Seeks Opinion Of Dr. T. W. Lingle
(Continued from Page 5)
him concerning the conditions in his community. The letter also requested Dr. Lingle to add any suggestions that he saw
fit to help the government to serve the people better.

SERVICE IS OUR MOTTO
WHITE DRUG CO.
If We Don't Have It We'll Order It
TRY OUR RENTAL LIBRARY

War Attracts D. C. Students
(Continued from Page 5)
Ethiopians, I hereby challenge Enoch to a duel to the death. Weapons his choice - stilettos preferred. Signed, James Salango
(Italy's to Davidson). From now on, members of the student body are requested to obtain information concerning the Ethiopian situation
from their daily newspapers, as it is feared some of the reports received in chapel may not be entirely authentic.

Last minute Dispatch from War Front.
“By Order of Emperor Selassie: Capt. Wooten 129th Regiment Band will embark Friday morning, Oct. 18th, at 8 o'clock, for
Ethiopia, where they will lead a spirited charge against Captain Salango and his dirty shirts.”

Sports Staccato
(Continued from Page 4)
Yarborough, who played fine defensive ball Saturday, “Six” Johnston, Dick Johnson, and Windham will be Davidson's major chances of stopping
that “Rose Bowl Machine.” After a week's concentration on Davidson's offense, the backfield men showed a great deal of improvement,
particularly on laterals, two of them connecting for a total of 65 yards in Saturday's game.

The Storrs-Schaefer Style Specialist will be at
Wednesday—Oct. 23rd
Mennies to show you the very latest pattern in new Fall and Winter fabrics. Also the smartest in formal wear.

GRIMES & JOHNSON
9 GEORGIA

SAVE MONEY AND STILL GET WHAT YOU WANT at the LITTLE PEP
Sandwiches a Specialty

... but, after all is said and done, it’s the cigarette itself that counts ... does it suit you? Now,
when it comes to a cigarette that will suit you... you want to think whether it’s mild, you want to
think about the taste. That Chesterfields are milder and taste better is no accident... The farmer who grows the tobacco,
the warehouseman who sells it at auction to the highest bidder, every man who knows about leaf tobacco will tell
you that it takes mild, ripe tobaccos to make a good cigarette. In making Chesterfields we use mild ripe home-grown
and Turkish tobaccos.

© 1935, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.
.. for mildness .. for better taste
