THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 10, 1935

Copyright 1935, The American Tobacco Company.

MUSICAL GROUP TO GIVE RECITAL

Michigan Little Symphony Will Present Formal Concert Next Friday

The University of Michigan Little Symphony Orchestra, under the direction of Thor Johnson, will present a formal concert Friday evening, April 12, at 8 o'clock at the Chambers Auditorium in Davidson. This unique musical organization consists of sixteen members of the faculty and student instructors of the School of Music of Michigan University. Many of them have achieved national recognition both on the concert stage and with the leading symphony orchestras throughout America.

Soloists who will appear with the talented group are Miss Ruth Pfohl, concert harpist and head of the harp department at the School of Music, and Romine Hamilton, violinist and instructor in string instruments. Miss Pfohl is a sister of J. C. Pfohl, director of music at Davidson College.

The work of Thor Johnson, conductor of the orchestra, is familiar to the residents of this state because of his outstanding work as conductor of the Carolina Salon Ensemble. He was also the first musician at Carolina to make Golden Fleece, an honorary fraternity. Mr. Johnson is an assistant instructor in the Department of Music of the University of Michigan.

The program will be as follows: Overture to the opera, “Mignon,” by Thomas; “Trio Des Jeunes Ismaelites de l’Enfance du Christ,” by Berlioz; Mozart’s violin concerto No. 4 in D major; “Intermezzo,” by Bizet; “La Fille Aux Cheveux de Lin,” by Debussy; “Pictures at An Exhibition,” Moussorgsky; “Flight of the Bumble Bee,” by Rimsky-Korsakov; “Introduction and Allegro,” for harp and orchestra, by Ravel; and the overture to the operetta “Die Fledermaus,” by Strauss.

I am a friend indeed. A better friend than others, because I am made only of mild, fragrant, expensive center leaves. I don’t permit a single sharp top leaf nor bottom leaf in my makeup. That’s why I am a better cigarette—mild and mellow, with no harshness or bitterness.

LUCKY STRIKE CIGARETTES

CENTER LEAVES GIVE YOU THE MILDEST SMOKE

AT THE LOCAL THEATRE

Wednesday, April 10
ONE NEW YORK NIGHT
This is an interesting and intriguing account of a night in the big city where a murder involves Franchot Tone and Una Merkle, Conrad Nagel and Harvey Stephens.

Thursday and Friday, April 11 and 12
MISSISSIPPI
Here is Bing Crosby “stooging” for W. C. Fields. Joan Bennett, who is as graceful as a young maple—and just as sappy! “The Swanee River” rather effectively.

Saturday, April 13
REDHEAD
Grace Bradley doesn’t subscribe to the theory that you shouldn’t marry a man to reform him. She does, and it works—Bruce Cabot is the man.

Monday and Tuesday, April 15 and 16
WEST POINT OF THE AIR
This is good entertainment from the flying start to the final happy landing—added accessories are the triangular passions and patriotic fervor. Wallace Beery and Lewis Stone are the fond fathers of two aviators in the process of incubation, and give commending performances. Maureen O’Sullivan is lovely as the romantic prize. Wallace Beery gives the most remarkable performance of his career. Lewis Stone, type-perfect as the general, James Gleason, Russell Hardie top the support. Robert Young, in his characteristic role, adds the finishing touches to the show. There are songs—Bing warbles.

As Felix Sees ‘Em
(Continued from Page 4)
The next morning, the entire crew spent a delightful hour at the Richmond police station where they were accorded the privilege of paying five bucks for running their brand new 13-ton bus over a 7½-ton bridge. According to reports, all had a swell time except the police, one of whom was heard to remark, “This ain't no playhouse, boys,” and after a brief...Period of parley, the cindermen embarked for via a new bridge.

SPORT SPOTS

Navy has Davidson in a gridiron contest at Annapolis on October 3, 1936, although no contracts have been signed yet... In the last two games, Charlie Harris has fanned 21 men... “I’m going to beat Davidson (in football) next year if it’s the last thing I ever do.”—Peahead Walker, Elon Coach... The S.P.E.’s are now leading interfraternity competition with a total of 47½ points followed by the Kappa Sigs with 42½ points... Walter Dickson has a total of 30 points in intercollegiate track competition... Fritz Byerly is 2nd with 15 points... John Newton is one man on the campus whom everybody believes when it comes to fishing stories, only the fish apparently got the best of the bargain in this case, and Johnny's only trophy is a pair of crutches plus a battered foot.

I agreed to engage a single coarse bottom leaf to mar my good taste or my uniform mildness. I do not irritate. To loneliness, I bring companionship. I am the best of friends.

EXHIBITION

Clothes of Individual Excellence Correctly Attuned to the Immediate Season Forty Dollars and More Exhibition at Miss Minnie’s Friday, April 12th

Ropsert Grey, Representative Finchley Fifth Avenue, New York Clothes Individually Tailored To Order Also Haberdashery Hats Shoes

Baseball Team Downs Carolina (Continued from Page 4)

A Complete Drug Store

Way up until the ninth inning, the game was saved by a timely single by Jim “66” Morgan, who was also responsible for three of the Davidson runs. Morgan made three hits, three runs, and no errors. The Heels made their only 5 scores in the first inning when they garnered three runs. Charlie Harris bettered his already excellent record by allowing only four hits and by fanning Carolina batters. The second game, which was due to be played on Saturday, was postponed on account of rain.

Varsity Tracksters Defeat Furman (Continued from Page 4)

Nevertheless, in spite of the cold, Earle ran the 880 to win by at least twenty-five yards in 2 minutes, 6 and .3 seconds. Another exciting moment was when Paul Pittman went sprawling to the ground after the third jump in the low hurdle event. “Pitt” was leading the field at the time of his fall, but he got up and finished in second place. For the visitors, Stevens accounted for fourteen of the Hurricane’s points, and Keith was responsible for ten. For the Wildcats, Dickson was high point man with eight points.

(Continued from Page 4)

Everyone that was present agreed that the wet weather spoiled the meet and all possibility of breaking any marks. Davidson took only two first places. These were in the mile run, which was won by Frazier, and in the eight hundred and eighty-yard run, which was won by Shuford. Davidson took seven second places. However, they only placed one man in the weight events. John Lee, star Davidson pole vaulter, was unable to take part in the meet because of a bad ankle. The records were considerably below the average because of the wet weather and the muddy track. There were no broken records, and the time and distances for events were below average.

Hart, Schaffner & Marx CLOTHES FOR SPRING In Eight Different Models Come in early for the best selection

J O JONES INC 210 S. TRYON ST.

Freeman, Davidson, second; Kielpinski, 113.4. Javelin—Bell, Richmond, first; Hogan, Richmond, third. Distance: Davidson, second; Kielpinski, Richmond, third. Total—Davidson, 67 2-5; Richmond, 49 3-5. Distance: Richmond.