THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 27, 1935

WILDCATS HAVE GREAT WEEK IN EVERY DEPARTMENT

In the Field of Sports

’CATS AND KITTENS TO BEGIN BASEBALL THIS WEEK AS FERIA SEEDS ‘EM.

After winning the two-mile event at the Charlotte Armory Monday night, Earl Frazier, Davidson's scintillating distance runner, was solicited from all sides by autograph seekers who insisted that he give them his signature. Earl was somewhat embarrassed at first, but when he realized that he had taken honors along with such nationally known performers as Jack Torrance and Harry Williamson, he very readily accommodated his admirers by affixing his “John Hancock” on every piece of paper put before him. I believe he even signed one or two for some Davidson boys.

DESERVE CREDIT

John Lee and Frazier did themselves and Davidson proudly in this first of Charlotte’s indoor track meets. Davidson was the smallest school represented and it came home with two of the events from a small field. A. J. Potter and Audley Gammon deserve credit along with Lee and Frazier. Potter came third to Jack Torrance, gigantic L. S. U. shot-putter, who shattered the world indoor record in the Charlotte show, and Gammon cleared the bar at 5 feet seven and one-half inches to tie for third place in the high jump. This clears away some of the gloom that has hovered over the Wildcat coaches since they began to work with their track prospects early in the year. News also comes that Fred McPhail will be ready for action by the first spring meet, so the Wildcats should show their opponents plenty of heel before the season closes.

MATMEN COP

The Wildcat grapplers took the big five mat title from N. C. State Friday night with one of the hardest-fought matches ever witnessed. Every man on both teams was giving all he had. Three of the duels ended as draws, State got two time advantages as did Davidson, and Lawrence Quarterman came through to win the only fall of the evening and bring Davidson the match and the big-five conference championship. Barnhardt, the man Quarterman pinned, was being watched by his parents, who had come all the way from Massachusetts to see their son compete in the titular fray. Too bad he had to lose not simply the deciding match but also the only fall that either team scored.

CHEERFUL HAPPENINGS

Felix has had a great deal to cheer him lately. He became terribly sad after his old friend “Doc” Charlie died, but the cards have fallen right for the Felines during the past week and nothing pleases the mascot more than to see his lads bring home the bacon. The basketeers, both varsity and freshmen, ended their seasons with significant and decisive wins, and this along with encouraging reports from the mat and track puts an enormous smile on Davidson’s face. Spring football shouldn’t be left out in our optimistic browsings. The reds and greys had another nip and tuck scrimmage Saturday afternoon, and it was particularly heartening to watch the progress of the freshmen candidates now vying for places on the 1935 eleven. The interesting part of all this glorious news is that it brightens the future for Wildcat aggregations. Cage hopes are made bright by a group of fast-stepping sophomores, who will remain to carry on for two more seasons, being strengthened next winter by the advent of some promising yearling material. The tracksters, of course, have a renewed outlook for the ensuing schedule, and the footballers anticipate the most powerful Wildcat outfit in several autumns.

TWO WILDCATS VICTORIOUS IN JAY-GEE MEET

Earl Frazier And John Lee Take Two Mile And Pole Vault With Ease

TORRANCE SETS MARK

Other Davidson Men Win Places In Various Events

Earl Frazier and John Lee, two junior members of Davidson's track team, took two first places out of a possible ten in the Jay Cee Indoor Track Meet held in the Charlotte Armory Monday night. The meet, which was an invitational affair, featured the breaking of the world’s indoor shot put record by Jack Torrance of L. S. U. with a heave of fifty-three and a half feet, to exceed the previous record by four and three-fourths inches. Frazier ran the two-mile event in beautiful form, starting out leisurely and gradually pulling up among his competitors until by the half he was well ahead. Toward the end of the race, he was slightly pushed by the famous Dick Dunaj of Washington and Lee University. However, Frazier had too much of a lead over him and crossed the line with Dunaj eight yards behind in second place. Lee, while the races were in progress, won the pole vault with the exceptionally good height of 12 feet, 2 inches, to take first place in that event. He was followed by Bear of Carolina and Smith of Carolina, who took second and third, respectively. Davidson also placed in two other events with A. J. Potter taking third place in the shot put, in which Torrance set a new record, and Audley Gammon tying for third place in the high jump. Potter's heave was for a distance of 37 feet, 8¼ inches, while Gammon took wings to sail 5 feet, 7½ inches in the high jump event.

Summary:

Barrett mile—Won by Williamson of Carolina; second, McRae of Carolina; third, Dunaj of W. & L. Time, 4 minutes and 27 seconds.

1,000-yard run—Tie between Gammon of Carolina and Headley of Maryland; third, Gaborri of Carolina. Time, 2 minutes, 27.1 seconds.

50-yard dash—Won by Widmyer (Maryland); second, Hubbard (Carolina); third, Little (W. & L.). Time, 5.5 seconds.

880-yard dash—Won by Gardiner (Carolina); second, Evans (Maryland); third, Rankin (Georgia). Time, 2 minutes, 8.5 seconds.

Pole vault—Won by Lee (Davidson), height 12 feet, 2 inches; second, Bear (Carolina), 11 feet, 10 inches; third, Smith (Carolina), 11 feet, 4 inches.

Shot put—Won by Torrance (L. S. U.), 53 feet, ½ inch; second, Evins (Carolina), 42 feet, 10 inches; third, Potter (Davidson), 37 feet, 8¼ inches. (New world’s record.)

One-mile relay—Won by Maryland (Slye, Sonen, Evans and Headley); second, Carolina (Montgomery, Rosser, Drake, and Williamson); third, Duke (Dodd, Stoneburner, Winstead, and Pruitt). Time, 3 minutes, 42.8 seconds.

High jump—Won by Arnold (Georgia), 5 feet, 10½ inches; second, Wilkin (Virginia), 5 feet, 9½ inches; third, Atkinson (Duke), Gammon (Davidson), Harris (Virginia), and Boucher (Maryland), 5 feet 7½ inches.

It looks like nothing but prizes for the Wildcats in the old grab bag this year.

MORGAN LEADS

We are just in receipt of some last-minute dope on the Wildcat loopsters. The statistics through the Wake Forest game Monday night showed Jim Morgan out front in the individual scoring honors by 45 points. Jim chalked up a total of 189 points while Charlie Harris and Courtney Ross are second and third in the order named, with 144 and 140 points, respectively.

INDOOR MEET WINNERS

EARL FRAZIER
JOHN LEE

Earl Frazier and John Lee pictured above won first place in the mile and pole vault at the first invitation indoor track meet held in Charlotte. The meet was sponsored by the Charlotte Chamber of Commerce and took place in the Charlotte Armory auditorium Monday night.

’Cats End Fourth Week Of Grinding Football Practice

Lafferty Runs Seventy-Six Yards To Score Touchdown In Practice Game

The Davidson Wildcats ended their fourth week of spring football Saturday afternoon when the Grey eleven defeated the Red team 6 to 2 on Richardson Field. A 76-yard run by “Teeny” Lafferty featured the game. Four coming sophomore backs, Hogan, Dennis, Harrison, and Lafferty, showed plenty of promise. Harrison and Dennis tore the line time and again for gains, while Hogan's passing and punting were superb. Jim Johnston, guard, played a jam-up game for the Reds, while Hunter McClung and Dick Johnson stood out for the Greys in the line. The only touchdown of the afternoon was tallied by Lafferty when he faked a punt and went off-tackle for 76 yards and a score. Hunter aided with a bit of perfect interference. Jim Johnston scored the safety for the losers when he covered Paul Pittman’s first blocked punt. This game completed the fourth week of spring football and leaves the ’Cats with two more weeks under the tutelage of Coaches Newton and McEver.

The starting line-ups for the game:

Greys (6) Pos. Reds (2)
Cumble Bese Nicholson
Hunter T Big Six Johnston
Dick Johnson G Vass
Clark E McClung
Jim Johnston G Gray
Cathey Freeman E Young
Pittman Q YarboroughVerble H. Corbin, Lafferty H., Hogan Dennis, and Harrison Juniors Top Freshmen In Intramural Soccer

Last Friday afternoon, the freshmen met the juniors on the soccer field, and the upperclassmen showed their supremacy by taking the victory, 2-1. Outstanding among the members of the winning team were Bell and Hake, while the frosh squad followed Cothran and McClanahan. Faison scored the freshman goal.

There remains but one game to be played in the current intramural soccer season. The juniors will meet the sophomores. The last game of the current intramural soccer season was played this afternoon between the juniors and the sophomores, in order to break the tie between these two teams and determine a championship class. The score of this game was, of course, not available when The Davidsonian went to press.

In its first season on the campus, soccer has gained a good foothold here, and future seasons should be even more successful.

Remember the supper dance every Wednesday and Saturday night. The very best food prepared in the very best way. The service is unsurpassed at HOTEL CHARLOTTE. The price is quite inexpensive, so give us this privilege of serving you.

S.P.E.’s Down Kappa Sig’s Basketball Sig Eps Take Interfraternity Crown By 17-16

Last Tuesday night, the S.P.E.’s nosed out the Kappa Sigs 17-16 for the interfraternity basketball championship. These two evenly-matched teams put on an exhibition of good basketball throughout, and it remained for Charlie Yeager’s long goal at the finish to decide the issue. Soon after the start of the second half, the S.P.E.’s brought the score into a deadlock, and from that point, it was a nip and tuck affair until the end. With the score 15-16 in favor of the Kappa Sigs, Yeager sank a long one, the ball being in the air when the final whistle blew, for the two points necessary for victory.

Wingfield and Ravenel were outstanding for the losers. The play of Yeager, Jenkins, and McCall was best for the victors. An enthusiastic crowd witnessed this clash, which practically cinched the fraternity athletic trophy for the Kappa Sigs.

Line-up:
Kappa Sigs (17) - S.P.E. (16)
Gracey - Forward - Jenkins
Loftin - Forward - Barnett
Rose - Center - Yeager
Wingfield - Guard - Elvery
Ravenel - Guard - McCall

Tryouts Held Tuesday For Varsity Golf Team

Davidson’s varsity golf team began the new season with tryouts held Tuesday, February 26. Those men trying out were: Charlie Hamrick, Bill Show, George Cowan, Ralph McClelland, Ab Price, and Charlie Ross. Charlie Hamrick is the only letterman returning. It was not known at the time of publication what the results of the tryouts were.

The schedule for the season is:
Mar. 9—Charlotte Country Club, at Charlotte.
Mar. 22—N.C. State, at Charlotte.
Mar. 25—Hampden-Sydney, at Charlotte.
Mar. 29—Furman, there.
Mar. 30—Georgia Tech, there.
Apr. 1—University of Florida, there.
Apr. 3—College of Charleston, there.
Apr. 17—University of Richmond, at Charlotte.
Apr. 25, 26, 27—Tournament sponsored by University of Georgia, there.
May 2—N.C. State, there.
May 3—University of North Carolina, there.
May 4—State Tournament, at Durham.

Freshman tryouts were also held Tuesday, March 26. Meets will be arranged with Charlotte High School and several freshman teams.

Wildcats Down Deacons In Last Big Five Contest

Wildkittens Defeat Abbey Quintet

Wildkittens Defeat Junior College Champions During Last Few Seconds

After a nip and tuck battle which gave no assurance of victory to either side until the last few seconds of play, the Wildkitten basketeers put on a final scoring spurt in the last two minutes of the game to defeat Belmont Abbey, North Carolina junior college basketball champions, by a score of 24-18. Belmont Abbey administered a good licking to the freshman team earlier in the season, and last Monday night in the preliminary to the final varsity game with Wake Forest, the ’Kittens were out for revenge. The Abbey aggregation was a hard opponent to subdue, however, and neither team got more than two points ahead of the other until the game was almost over. The half ended with the score tied 9-9.

With only two minutes to play, Davidson was trailing by a margin of one point. Led by Kiesewetter and Rhinehardt, they rang up three field goals in quick succession to cinch the victory. A foul shot after the game was over added an additional point. Kiesewetter and Rhinehardt led the scoring with eight points each. They were followed by Capt. Wade Barrow with five points. Waltz was high scorer for the visitors with a total of six points to his credit.

The final week of the season has been a busy one for the freshman team. On Monday, February 18, they were defeated by the Duke freshmen in the Davidson gym by the score of 34-20. Lewis and Edwards of Duke managed to run up one of the highest scores which has been made against the ’Kittens this year. Kiesewetter starred for Davidson. On Tuesday night at Concord, the freshmen swamped Concord High School by the odds of 46-19. Kiesewetter again was the leading scorer with fourteen points. On Thursday night, they scored another victory over a strong opponent, Eastern Carolina Teachers College, by the margin of 33-27. E.C.T.C. has one of the strong teams of the state. In a game with Charlotte High School in Charlotte last week, the ’Kittens lost a very close game, 31-27. The Belmont Abbey victory brought the season record up to eight wins and nine losses, most of the losses toward the beginning of the season, and most of the wins toward its close.

Davidson Pulls Out At Last Minute To Leave Wake Forest In Cellar

Terrors Bow To ’Cats

Local Quintet Badly Upsets Dope By Last Week’s Trip

The Davidson Wildcat quint pulled itself out of the Big Five cellar last Monday night when it defeated Wake Forest’s Demons by a 31-24 count on the local floor. After giving Wildcat supporters many anxious moments when they were left behind by Wake Forest last week, the ’Cats came back and defeated two Big Five opponents to put themselves a notch above the Deacons. The game Monday was Davidson’s last Big Five basketball game of the season. They closed their 1935 season last night in a game with Erskine.

In a slow game, characterized by many fouls on both sides, the ’Cats faced their rivals for the cellar post during the first half. Failure of the plays of either side to click resulted in a 13-13 tie at the half. Davidson came back after the half much improved and picked up a lead early in the playing, which they held to the end, despite a last-minute spurt of the Deacs. Bill Quick of Davidson, Patton, Hatcher, and Morris of Wake Forest left the game on fouls. Big Jim Morgan led the scoring with a total of 13, followed by Clark of Wake Forest with seven points.

The line-ups and summary:
Wake Forest G F P | Davidson G F P
Brunt, f 1 3 5 | Harris, f 0 2 2
Morris, f 2 2 6 | Peabody, f 0 4 4
Patton, c 1 0 2 | Morgan, c 5 3 13
Clark, c 3 1 7 | Quick, c 0 1 1
Hatcher, g 0 1 1 | Cathey, c 1 0 2
Chappell, f 0 0 0 | Knorr 0 3 3
Yates 0 0 0 | Ross 2 0 4
Gaddy 1 1 3 | Windham 1 0 2
Jelks 0 0 0 | Yelverton 0 0 0
Porter 0 0 0 | Totals 9 13 31

Totals 8 8 24

Last week’s playing showed an amazing disregard for predictions. The Wildcat quint upset the dope bucket twice, dropping a predicted win over Wake Forest Thursday, and unexpectedly trouncing the much-lauded State quint the following night. Leaving here Thursday morning, the ’Cats faced their rivals for the cellar post at Wake Forest that night. Morris, star of the Deacons, was high scorer for the game with 10 points, closely pursued by Big Jim Morgan, Davidson, with nine. The ’Cats led by two points at the half, but the Deacons squeezed out a one-point victory in the last few minutes.

A brand-new 103, pe vin RCA Micso-complete U GS $24.95 RCA VICTOR VAN PATTERSON 414 WEST RCA-Victor Radios, Records, Authorized RCA Repair Service