THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 13, 1935

The Davidsonian
Founded by the Class of 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate year.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879.

ARTICLES FOR PUBLICATION
Articles intended for publication must be in the hands of the Editor by 4 o'clock p.m., on the day preceding
publication.

LAMONT BROWN ..... Editor
R. P. MORROW, Jr. ..... Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
M. G. MORTON ..... Managing Editor
HOWARD SOVERTON ..... Managing Editor
HAROLD SUGG ..... Managing Editor
DAYMOND TURNER ..... Managing Editor
N. JOHN OWEN ..... Managing Editor
HARRY KUYKENDALL ..... Sports Editor
MARTIN GARNETT ..... Associate Editor
HARVEY GLASS ..... Associate Editor
PAUL HARLAN ..... Associate Editor
TOM MARCHANT ..... Associate Editor
JOHN WALKER ..... Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
CHARLES MAUZ ..... Circulation Manager
BILL SWOPE ..... Circulation Manager
BOB VANG ..... Circulation Manager
FLOKE ROBINSON ..... Advertising Manager
BILL PHILLIPS ..... Collection Manager
Assistant Business Manager

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 1935

Where no counsel is, the people fall; but in the multitude of counsellors there is safety.—Prov. 11:14

TOO MUCH NOISE....
Complaints concerning the unreasonable amount of noise in dormitories have been so numerous, and unfortunately, so well-founded, that it becomes
necessary to take steps to remedy the matter. Editorials and chapel pleas have availed very little, and it has been
deemed advisable to adopt a different, more effective remedy. This plan is now being worked out, and details will be
made known next week. Any man should be able to study in his own room if he wishes to do
so. Outsiders have no right whatsoever to infringe on this study privilege in any way, and to maintain the proper
study conditions should be a primary objective of any student government. The situation as we know it at Davidson is
duplicated in very few other colleges. Consistently unreasonable and obstreperous persons are dealt with in a very stringent and serious
manner, with the result that complaints of too much noise are few and far between.

It is not intended that this plan shall itself be too strict, but no doubt, it will be quite effective.
Loud radios, and all other unnecessary disturbances will be dealt with properly. Good study conditions will be established and maintained
in the dormitories. Your support in this step to make dormitory life at Davidson better, is earnestly solicited.

Carleton B. Chapman.

I WAS AN INTERNATIONALIST
Immediately after the Armistice there bloomed a flower of idealism whose roots had been nurtured in the first decade of
the twentieth century. Internationalism, this idea which manifested itself mainly in The League of Nations, indicated that peace and prosperity
were to be found through the harmonious workings of the nations together, each nation surrendering part of its sovereignty to
a general representative council of nations, much as the individual states have surrendered part of their sovereignty to the Federal
Government. Behind this idea enrolled an ardent and intellectually honest group; hopeful mothers, earnest school moms, cynical village idealists, preachers
and much of the best intellectual thought of America: and if the young student is able by reading and speculation
to place his age before his birth he will very probably find himself in this same group.

The support for this idea derived itself from two arguments, one from the so-called higher field of motivation, such as
moralism and humanity-ism. This argument, which allied itself with the intimate hate of war and desire for peace, recognized the
intrinsic brotherhood of man and perhaps undertook to place this whole system of people and nations in the simple family
relationship conceived by many religious philosophers, including our own. The second source of support came from the so-called lower field
of motivation, the idea that America would benefit materially from such a brotherhood. Concerning the first thought, we exempt it
from criticism except for mild query, “Do not the higher values evolve from material results?” The second argument, however, lends
itself to study, since it is based on hotly contested issues in American History.

The idea first put into the young student’s head was the question, “Can America be isolated?” Is it conceivable that
this great creditor nation whose ships fill the ports of the world, whose products reach every people, can profitably refuse
to join with the other nations in the regulation of World affairs? And the argument seemed unanswerable. This was the
idea that trade makes peace and that a strong commercial connection was worth a hundred treaties. It was convincingly concluded
that if Economic America was internationally organized, if it was to bend itself toward world trade, then political America must
be internationally inclined and join with Europe & Co. in regulating World Affairs.

But there gradually came a recognition that trade is not international but national. It is carried on between nations but
with a nationalistic purpose. When a market is won, a deal gained, it is the result of competition that is
accompanied by clashes of interests, and one of those glorious old maxims, “Trade follows the Flag,” asserts itself. Only the
flag has to get there first, by hook or crook. Thus international trade builds causes for war rather than a
foundation for peace. And there is poor occasion to argue that international interests breed friendliness. But it might be argued
that since trade breeds distrusts, would not Internationalism mitigate them? We may study this despite the fact staring us in
the face that trade per se inevitably brings friction and rests with the sharpest and most powerful bargainer.

At least until the first year of the Roosevelt Administration, American Economy was organized to sell abroad, with the firm
belief that the American Standard of Living depended upon foreign trade. And the present stagnation of foreign trade finds the
old school hopelessly pessimistic. The High Tariff has choked what foreign markets we did have and although a lower tariff
possibly would open up foreign markets, it would result in a surrender of much of our domestic market; and there
would be little money profit. The Low Tariff would enable us to purchase European Products but we may question whether
such imports, except certain professional and technical instruments, are superior, or equal, to the American. Thus, not only does Foreign
Trade invoke friction but it now becomes a fading improbability.

The United States has had no consistent foreign policy, unless it be a policy of not having one. Conflicting with
our quest for world markets has been our feebler desire for a small army and navy. And the attempt to
compete in all foreign markets without the backing of a powerful navy may lead us into embarrassing situations yet. If
our policy is to push foreign trade to the uttermost, then that policy must be coincident with a powerful army
and navy. Pausing here, we may question ourselves, “Will the resulting profit on foreign trade pay even the interest on
the billions required to raise our military forces to such a degree of efficiency?”

The young student’s enthusiasm for Internationalism thus is slightly dampened; but in considering the attitude of the nations with whom
we shall sit at the International Council, the enthusiasm is positively deluged. We have in Japan a people ruled by
a military government at whose gentle behest the Japanese commits the hara-kiri. We have a people imbued with the love
of country, hate of foreigner; able to work for nothing and live on less; a people whose cotton exports are
well toward breaking the U. S. textile industry, whose exports are beating the United States out of a luscious South
American market, and a government which has practically confiscated Standard Oil possessions in Manchukuo. Add to this: a face-saving people
whose faces have been slapped by the Japanese Exclusion Act. It is not necessary to dwell on (or with) Germany
and Italy. And as for Britain and France, they belied their 14-point hearts when they gathered at Versailles, distributed the
spoils and tore the heart out of Germany which Hitler is now replacing. American interests and ideals (if we have
any) before this council would be as safe as a maiden’s honor among a band of thieves.

And this Armistice Day finds the once hopeful young Internationalist disillusioned. Somewhere else must we find the avenue to peace
and prosperity. Dr. Charles A. Beard strikes the most promising note in his book, “The Open Door At Home,” in
which he asks, “Does America produce more than she can consume?” Would it not be better to withdraw our stake
abroad and trade not for a money profit but for just what is needed for a cultural level. And our
foreign policy shall be one consistent with our foreign relations: not the daddy of the helpless and the butt of
our equals. The only drawback to this position is that it might place us with that group of hard-headed irreconcilables
who have dominated the country since 1919. That is not so, for—without discussing reasons—it does not preclude our entry into
the World Court. An organism as the World Court may be necessary to regulate our reduced relations, and if our
foreign stake were reduced to consistency with our foreign policy there would be little cause for worry over its submission
to the Court. Also, as Dr. Beard suggests, it is not a permanent withdrawal but one until conditions shall merit
a change.

Harold Sugg.

DAVIDSON off the RECORD
By HAROLD SUGG

HICCUPS FROM AN ALUMNI BULL-SESSION
There is something about Home-coming that catches the imagination; it is a part of that something that gives meaning to
life. Old acquaintances renewed, old associations reformed, and once more the Davidson Man of '34 or 1900 walks among the
autumn-touched trees and the Eu and Phi halls to relive the days when he hastened to Chambers after breakfast, when
his shirt tail flew for a Pep meeting, when in the rain characteristic of Davidson he trudged to supper wearing
an atrocious rain hat. Fraternity banter re-gossiped and once more a distinctive Davidson Dance Set with its anti-climactic late dating.
We saw several Phi Bete and ODK keys, reminiscent of power-houses of yore. We hope that the Davidson Student Body
will never exceed 700 and that Eu, Phi, Oak, Elm buildings and the old gym will never lose their old
atmosphere.

MISERABLE FEELINGS
Coming in from a dance, all tired out at 3 A.M. and finding someone in your bed... Telegram the day
of the dance: SORRY CAN'T COME GRANDMOTHER HAS SORE TOE THANKS ANYWAY... Rushing to room to get Book and return
to Chambers to find it the wrong book... realizing that your date has rooked you... stranded halfway between Davidson and
Charlotte at 12 Midnight... Telegram after you've invited another girl: CAN COME AFTER ALL SWEET AR-ARRIVING TONIGHT ON SIX P.
M. BUS. AFTER THE BALL (GAME) WAS OVER

About 7000 saw a hard-fought football game Saturday afternoon, but that was just a dress rehearsal for the affair Saturday
night. Any attempt at snake-hipping was abruptly met with terminations, but excellent side-stepping was in evidence. Several of the boys
tried unsuccessful forward passes, and every once in a while the crowd would go into a dither while quarterback Peters
tapped out instructions. Jimmy Poyner was referee and Cokey Branton cheerleader. “Is everybody happy?” yells genial Cokey. “Yeah man,” echo
the Council vainly trying to squeeze in the door. We called the boys plutocrats last week but retract. Anybody who
can make sardines pay two bucks for the privilege of being bruised, processed, and packed deserves the respect due Frankenstein.

Jane Hashagen, the sweetheart of the press, was duly escorted by Editor Brown to the delight of Sigma Alpha Epsilon,
and Howard Covington’s Annie Duck Steele and Martin Barnett’s Grace Hambreck have given the telegraph office a new lease. .
. . Dosty Blackmon, Mary Harris, and Wilfred Schlosser, all traditional Davidson girls, were dated by Joe Hunter, Mills Taylor,
and alumnus Blanton Little respectively . . . and a Brenau contribution of Dot Watt, Sarah Frances Crosby, Adel Jenness,
and Margaret Mitchell to the cause thrilled the hearts of Buddy Branton, Harvey MacConnell, Hal Overton, and Cage Brewer respectively.
Among the Salisbury queens, we saw beautiful Esther Hambley, popular Elinor Newman with Walter Dickson, and Ann Watkins proudly escorted
by Billy Archer . . . Other queens on the roll of honor: Jane Holman, Wilbur Edwards; Martha May Asbury,
John Winn; Jean Abbey, Johnny Mosely; Ed Armfield’s popular sister, “Dee.” . . . Mary Daniel, Charles Hamrick; Kitty Foster,
who was probably entertained with Tom Downie’s Yowlish humor . . . Loyd F. . . . etc. . .
. Berger’s sister, Anna Mae, who was more or less escorted by Salty Peters: less on Friday night, more on
Saturday. Snakes. Half the girls wore red Saturday and all the alumni were friendly.

FINALE

Some attended breakfasts and faintly bored themselves with alumni drunk with wit or vice-versa, and others hied to the log
fire or under the full moon to whisper the banter of love. And with the nightfall came the wily amphibians.
It seems that Duke was not content with the morning and afternoon victories and had to defeat our old friend
Ken Fryfogle. . . . Too bad, and Miss Jordan was one of the best-looking girls too. Ralph Chandler was
another troubled young chap in quest of his date. . . . Deacon Bob Johnson reverted over the weekend and
George Tipton was the victim. WANTED: A BODYGUARD.

AROUND WASHINGTON
By ARNOLD SERWER (Associated Collegiate Press Correspondent)

Washington, D.C.—In the third year of the New Deal, most division chiefs in Washington are found to be of the
opinion that the day of the old-style government clerk and government official is over, that the college-trained man and woman
will eventually replace them in all positions of any importance. The emphasis is not so much on youth as it
is on the possession of a broad background to supplement training or information in a particular field. And it is
felt by bureau heads that such a background is most frequently found among college-trained applicants for government jobs.

One reason for this may be that in Washington today, bureaus often change overnight, take on new names and new
functions in order to meet special emergencies. Entirely new staffs to do the work are not advisable. What government officials
usually think is preferable is to have people on their staffs whose equipment is equal to making lightning changes from
one type of work to another, as their sections take on new duties. Another reason is that the wider the
field of knowledge of an employee, the more likely he will be to get inspirations for the solution of difficult
problems and tough assignments. It may sound a bit far-fetched, but there have been some hard nuts cracked, some seemingly
hopeless tangles unraveled because someone remembered something Plato wrote or Johnson said that strangely enough contained in it the kernel
of an idea from which the solution of an official problem or a departmental dilemma was evolved. And bits of
college-taught psychology, sociology, and economics have raised their welcome heads in strange corners in many bureaus and saved the day
time and time again.

For these and other reasons, government chiefs, especially in the new bureaus, are showing an increasing preference for college people.
However, they want college graduates with both feet on the ground. They're strong for burning enthusiasm and glowing idealism but
not beyond the point where it becomes entirely divorced from relations and probabilities. There are mountains, they point out to
new young college people they hire, that cannot be moved in a day, nor by the most direct method.

The WPA, the NRA, the AAA, the new Social Security Board, and the National Labor Relations Board being formed, can
be counted on to show a strong predilection for college people whenever adding personnel. In the old line departments, the
Children’s Bureau and the Bureau of Labor Statistics, the Department of Agriculture, and the Department of the Interior are outstanding
for the emphasis placed on college training in considering applicants for jobs. Of course, whenever out-and-out technicians and professional people
are required, such as physicists and chemists for the Bureau of Standards, engineers for the PWA, etc., college-trained people have
almost complete preference, even where it is possible to pick up the required training in industry.

One type of college person that comes to grief here, however, is the young man or woman who projects classroom
data into the office too obviously. Division officials prefer academic theory checked against day-by-day observation. They do not, by the
way, have any objection to anyone making an academic theory out of experience gained through government work. It happens constantly.
It is not an exaggeration to say that a whole series of new postulates about prices could be worked out
as a result of the data accumulated by young people associated with AAA price maneuvering. And the contributions to sociological
research of FERA field people, all of them college-trained, is comparable to the best research being done in that field
by academic bodies.

There may be a shift in the trend, a shift away from the growing emphasis toward employing college graduates. If
there is, the result will be a slowing down of governmental machinery. It will become fumbling and certainly will be
less capable of meeting emergencies or creating precedents. But bureau heads scarcely think this will happen. On the contrary, they
think the time is rapidly approaching when we shall do as the English do, specifically train college people interested in
doing government work for government service as a career.

COLLEGIATE RAMBLINGS

PEACE MOVEMENTS - Predominant on the news from other campuses this week are peace movements in connection with Armistice Day,
which were held in almost every college of note throughout the country. These movements consisted of denunciation of war by
students and supporters and an urging of students to organize against war. At State College, all classes were dismissed on
Monday for a parade and peace exercises. News of similar action comes from universities in Paris, England, Spain, the Netherlands,
Denmark, Sweden, Romania, Canada, South Africa, and India.

CENSORSHIP - President Glenn Frank of the University of Wisconsin made the following statement recently which should strike a respondent
chord in the heart of many a student: “When University authorities maintain a censorship of a student newspaper, it ceases
to be a student newspaper and becomes an administration newspaper. In which case, why not publish an official paper and
be done with it?”

RAMPANT RADIOS - The following measures were proposed in the Duke Chronicle last week as an antidote for blatant campus
radios. Equip all campus deputies with whistles to be sounded in the event that a radio becomes too loud. Failure
to turn down a loud radio when this warning is given will result in Student Council action and a fine
for unnecessary disturbance.

CO-ED’S CHOICE - A poll at the University of Ohio among co-eds showed an amazing difference between freshmen and seniors.
Classed as most desirable traits by the seniors were a good family, closely followed by good morals. Freshmen classed good
social traits as most important. Good morals came 14th.

SILENCE AT SEWANEE - Bells at Breslin tower in Sewanee ring no longer, due to a Hallowe’en prankster who spirited
away the clappers from all the bells and chimes. In addition to this, the practical joker upset delicate and expensive
timing mechanisms of the campus timepiece and damaged a good deal of property in removing the clappers.

Parents and even grandparents are now given the opportunity to take regular college courses and earn university degrees in afternoon
study under a new adult education plan developed at the University of Southern California.

“Compare The NEWS” From DAVIDSONIANS of Years Gone By

FIVE YEARS AGO
November 16. . . Rufus Morrow (who spoke in chapel last weekend) won the freshman cake race in the record
time of ten minutes and thirty seconds . . . Alumnus Joe Johnston, head of Barium Springs orphanage, speaks at
vesper service . . . Junior class holds its lead in intramural basketball league . . . Members of state
championship football team of 1910 signify in questionnaire that they do not regret having played football. . . 1910 team
plans to have reunion for Centennial.

TEN YEARS AGO
Davidson and Carolina prime their teams for each other, the outcome of their struggle virtually deciding the state football championship
. . . Professor Kenneth Foreman addresses students at “Y” Vesper Service on the subject of “War” . . .
Phi Beta Kappa elects Hollingsworth, Shaw, Ratchford, and Regen to membership . . . Special train is chartered by permission
of the faculty to take students to Chapel Hill for the Carolina game. . . Phi and Eu Halls receive
new heating plants.

FIFTEEN YEARS AGO
Ralph Bingham, King of American Funmakers, amuses students in the first number of the lyceum series. . . Smarting from
a 66-0 defeat on the previous weekend, the Wildcats prepare for Wake Forest game. . . . W. P. Cumming
announces that his sixteen jiu-jitsu pupils will, in one month, be able to down any other sixteen men on the
hill . . . City Editor J. C. Hutto, of the Charlotte News, lectures to Davidsonian staff and other interested
persons on journalism. . . Jan Garber advertises his Garber-Davis novelty band in the Davidsonian, announcing that they will play
for any society or fraternity functions, traveling out from Charlotte.
