THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 24, 1935

Spring Services Are Brought To Close By John A. Redhead

Subject Of Final Sermon Of Spring Services Is “Captured By Christ”

Rev. John A. Redhead brought the annual Spring Services to a close at 7 o'clock last Wednesday night, April 17,
when he spoke on “Captured By Christ.” Eight services in all were held by Mr. Redhead, beginning with the church
service on Sunday, April 14, and lasting through Wednesday, with a morning and evening service each day. Mr. Redhead's opening
topic was “Life in Four Dimensions.” The four dimensions spoken of by the young preacher were ideals, depth of conviction
and feeling, and height of aspirations. He compared the life of Christ to these four and stated that Jesus was
perfect and complete in these dimensions.

At the Y. M. C. A. vesper service his talk was on “The Power of Sin.” Three main points brought
out about sin were that our sins are greater than we are in guilt and remorse, that our sins become
habitual, and that our sins not only affect us but others. “How to Make Religion Real” was a message of
marvelous frankness and usefulness delivered before the assembled student body at chapel Monday morning. The big question that we should
ask ourselves when in doubt about a thing being good or bad, ethical or unethical, was “What would Christ do
in this circumstance?”

The main note struck in Mr. Redhead’s talk Monday night was “How to Make Religion Real.” The way pointed out
by God was: “The Word was made flesh and dwelt among us.” To be right in practice, it should conform
to confession. At chapel Tuesday Mr. Redhead told “How to Be Good Without Trying.” The example given here was the
way the man Paul stated it. “We are all with unveiled face beholding as in a mirror the image of
Christ.” Tuesday evening, “Making God Real” was the formula by which one could be happy. He stated that we begin
knowing God as a formula of explanation, but that it is up to one to know Him as a fact
of experience.

Wednesday morning Mr. Redhead spoke upon “Playing the Game.” Rules must be adhered to, we need men that will do
this, and the men who do win out in the end were emphasized by him. Mr. Redhead, now a pastor
of a Presbyterian Church in Tampa, Fla., graduated from Southwestern in 1926. He received his B.D. and Th.M. degrees from
Union Theological Seminary in Richmond. His record is outstanding and today he is one of the most enticing and interesting
ministers in the Southern Presbyterian Church.

Dr. Lingle Speaks To P. J. C. Student Body

Dr. Walter Lingle, president of the college, went to Maxton, N. C., last Friday, and was there through Sunday. During
these three days he spoke five times before the student body of the Presbyterian Junior College, all of these services
centering around the thought of the Easter season. Friday morning Dr. Lingle spoke on “The Witnessing Church.” The theme of
this talk was the thought, “Ye should be witnesses unto me.” Friday night the talk was on “The Praying Church,”
and dealt with the importance of prayer to the successful church. Saturday morning Dr. Lingle spoke on “Christ at the
Door,” taking his inspiration from the passage, “Behold, I stand at the door and knock.” Later the same day, at
the Junior College chapel hour, he spoke on “Putting First Things First.” Sunday morning the topic was “Who Was Jesus?”
and Sunday evening the last talk was made on the topic, “What It Means to Believe in Jesus.”

The Rev. James Appleby, an alumnus of Davidson College, is the pastor of the church at Maxton; he was formerly
the secretary of the Y. M. C. A. here. Students will probably remember him as guest preacher here in November.
Tonight Dr. Lingle will speak at a dinner to be held at 6:30 at the Chamber of Commerce in Charlotte.
The meeting will be made up of men and women interested in a memorial to Alexander Graham, who was the
father of Dr. Frank Graham, president of the University of North Carolina. Dr. Alexander Graham was for many years the
principal and superintendent of schools in Charlotte. Thursday night Dr. Lingle will speak before the Synod of the Associate Reformed
Presbyterian Church, meeting at Erskine College at Due West, S. C., on the subject of “Christian Education.”

Class Of 1938 Elects Wicker Vice-President

In the election for the vice-presidency of the rising sophomore class last week, William Monroe Wicker, Charlotte, defeated Charles Bixler
of Haddonfield, N. J. in the final ballot. Other candidates for the office in order of their elimination were as
follows: Reid Bahnson, Max Brittain, Fred Dennis, eliminated in the first ballot; “Sky” Cline, Joe Alderman, in the second ballot;
Robert McKnight in the third; and Charles Bixler in the fourth and final ballot. In preceding elections Martin Luther Lafferty
was elected to the presidency of the rising Sophomore class, and B. B. Crooks was elected Secretary-Treasurer.

BAND MEMBERS RECEIVE KEYS

Sixteen Musicians Receive Small Awards For Three Years’ Service

Ten members of the band received band keys at their practice on the night of Tuesday, April 16. On Friday
night, April 19, six members of the Glee Club also received keys. The following members of the band were presented
with keys: A. M. Cunningham, president; Hubert Morris, manager; Frank Tucker, J. A. C. Robinson, Wiley Bradley, A. P. Hassell,
Jr., E. C. Johnson, H. H. Thompson, E. C. Wooten, W. B. Young. To receive one of these keys the
men had to play in the band for three consecutive years. The following members of the Glee Club also received
keys: John Morgan, Hubert Morris, Blanton Little, C. B. Chapman, W. B. Stokes, A. P. Hassell, Jr. The requirements for
keys were the same as for the band. They had to be in the Glee Club for three consecutive years.
Professor Pfohl was presented one of the band keys by A. M. Cunningham, and Mrs. Pfohl received one from Hubert
Morris. These keys were given by the band as a token of esteem. The band keys are gold with a
red enameled “D” and written across the top and bottom is “Davidson Symphonic Band.” This is the first time that
keys have been given to the members of the Band and Glee Club and it is planned to continue this.

Klein Gets Bid For New Band Uniforms

The contract for the Davidson College Band uniforms has been let to D. Klein and Company of Philadelphia. Several bids
were received from various companies; the contract was let on the basis of price and quality. A sample uniform will
be sent to Davidson this week and a complete delivery is assured by May 20. The band will use the
uniforms before the year is over. The uniforms will be of the military style. The trousers will be black with
a three-quarter-inch red stripe running down both sides of them. The coat will be black with all four pockets, the
back of the collar, and the cuffs trimmed in red. The shoulder straps will be of red. The left sleeve
of the coat will have a red “D” mounted on it and a red citation cord suspended over it. The
caps will be of the Pershing style with a red band around them and the Davidson emblem mounted on them.

Among the GREEKS

BETA THETA PI

The brothers will hold their annual spring house party during the second weekend in May. A good crowd of girls
is expected to come down for the event.

PI KAPPA ALPHA

Pi Kappa Alpha Chapter will hold their annual encampment on the 27th of April. Brother Willie Moore has returned to
school after being confined at home on account of illness. Brothers Ken Knorr and Blanton Little went to Raleigh to
attend the Pi Kappa Alpha Ball there. Brother Snow and Brother Hamrick will leave soon to measure their skill in
knocking and chasing balls against Georgia Tech. They will probably leave on the 25th of the month. Brother Neil recently
returned from the hospital. He was suffering from an operation for appendicitis.

KAPPA ALPHA

The Sigma Chapter plan to have their spring house party sometime in the latter part of May. Several of the
brothers visited their homes during the weekend to spend Easter. Walter Sprunt attended a house party in the mountains during
the weekend. Brother Don Bailey is slowly recuperating in the college infirmary from a severe cold contracted during the wee
small hours of the morning.

SIGMA ALPHA EPSILON

The senior brothers held their house party at Blowing Rock this last weekend. Those who attended were: Brothers K. D.
Weeks, Joe Wadsworth, Jack Hellinger, Grier Martin, Walter Sprunt, and Professor and Mrs. Schenck. Brother Barksdale attended a dinner party
in Charlotte. A feed was given Sunday night. The spring house party will be given during the second weekend in
May. It will be held at the Charlotte Country Club. A dance will be held after the banquet. Brothers Mills,
Fryfogle and Merchant spent the weekend in Greenville, S. C. Brother Wood is in the infirmary suffering from a bad
cold believed to have been picked up in some corner of the Bowery Ball.

KAPPA SIGMA

The brothers will hold the spring house party on the 18th of May.

PHI GAMMA DELTA

Branton returned none the worse from his trip to Duke with the baseball team. Caleb West visited John Siewers over
the weekend. Brother A. E. Dixon, of the University of Richmond tennis team, visited our local chapter Saturday. Brothers Branton,
Dyer, Goslen, Northern, Wooten andRogers attended the dance given at the Charlotte Hotel Friday evening. The Cooke brothers and Hal
Overton betook themselves to Greensboro for the weekend. Plans are being made for the annual spring house party. PI KAPPA
PHI chapter is throwing an elaborate spring frolic on the 18th, made up of a banquet and dance. Brother Bill
McLean has left school because of serious illness. The usual trip to Honey Land was made Sunday by Brothers Mat
Alderman, Herb Willis, and Joe Hunter. The chapter recently was presented with many new books. Bob Tissue was seen to
be reading one. Van Patterson is ill in bed. Improvements have been made on the walks and grounds of the
chapter.

PHI DELTA THETA
John Partridge made a scientific study of the Rock Hill rocks over the weekend. A feed was given Sunday night.
A new pillow was bought for the benefit of Brother Guerrant.

SIGMA PHI EPSILON
Brothers Dud Elvery and Jim Knox, unable to resist the feminine charm from Rock Hill on our campus Saturday, accompanied
said visitors home that evening. The brothers eventually arrived home safely. Edward Norfleet, of the University of Richmond's local tennis
team, visited the chapter Wednesday-Thursday. Brother Porter spent the weekend visiting a friend in Greenwood, S.C. Brother Turner visited in
Lenoir. Brother Bradley went to Atlanta, Ga., for a few days.

Harding Makes Speech For Greenville Alumni
Dr. C. R. Harding, of the Davidson College faculty, spoke at a meeting of the Greenville Alumni Chapter on Monday,
April 15, at the Poinsett Hotel. This was a founder’s day meeting which had been unavoidably delayed. At this meeting,
two resolutions of importance to Davidson students were passed. The first of these was sent to Dr. C. R. Nisbet,
chairman of the trustees’ committee on dancing. This unanimous resolution requested dancing on the Davidson campus. The other was in
favor of a renewal of athletic relationships with Furman University. The officers of this organization, Dr. George Wilkenson, president, and
W. B. Mattison, secretary, were re-elected.

Oxford High School To Hear Dr. P. H. Gwynn
Dr. Price H. Gwynn, head of the Department of Education at Davidson, will deliver the commencement address for the Oxford
High School on the evening of Monday, May 27. This announcement was made by Superintendent C. G. Credle of the
Oxford School System. At the same time, he announced that the commencement of the Oxford High School and Oxford Orphanage
will be held together.

Dr. Hood Talks In Greensboro
Head Of Psychology Department Addresses Alumni Group In Gate City
Dr. Frazier Hood, head of the Psychology Department of Davidson, made an address to the alumni at their supper meeting
held at the King Cotton Hotel, Greensboro, N.C., on April 15. Dr. Hood's address was “The Spirit of Davidson.” He
asserted that the college does not accept new ideas or new people without thoroughly trying and testing them. The keynote
was “The Spirit of Davidson is the Spirit of Caution.” He also stated that it was this thoroughness which often
enables its athletic teams to defeat the teams of much larger institutions, and he emphasized that students at Davidson are
not taught to win so much as they are taught to “play the game.” If they lose, all is not
lost, the unconquerable spirit still remains, he pointed out. Dr. Hood jokingly explained that he had quieted critics at Davidson
who, when he first came to Davidson 14 years ago, had suspected him of being a Yankee, a westerner, a
“modernist,” and a big bad “behaviorist,” by pointing out that he was more of a North Carolinian than they; since
they had been accidentally born in the state, and he had come to it of his own volition. He closed
his address with a plea for a well-equipped psychology laboratory at the school.

Eumenean Society Will Visit Queens
Literary Society Plans To Study Senator Long’s Political Theories
The Eumenean Literary Society held its regular meeting Tuesday evening at 7 o'clock in the society hall. The program consisted
of a paper read by Gordon Wood. Plans are completed to send a delegation to Queens-Chicora College to appear before
the literary society there on April 30, 1935. This plan is a continuation of a formulated effort for stimulating the
work of the societies. A new amendment to the constitution will be brought before the society at the next meeting.
Recently the secretary was requested by the society to obtain material regarding Senator Huey Long's opinion of the political chaos
in the Democratic party. This material will be used in the forthcoming program. The election of officers for next year
will take place soon. Candidates will be chosen for president, vice-president, secretary, treasurer, critic, reviewer, and the program committee.

Around Town
The Thelemite Club held its regular meeting Friday afternoon at the home of Mrs. E. J. Erwin. Mrs. F. K.
Fleagle read a paper on modern architecture. President and Mrs. Walter Lingle entertained at a reception in honor of Wilson
Angel Tuesday night after the concert. The Booklovers’ Club met Friday afternoon with Mrs. C. H. Hamilton. “The Hudson, the
American Rhine” was the subject of the paper given by Mrs. T. W. Lingle. Mrs. S. S. Minault was a
guest. Mrs. Nelson Mebane, Mrs. E. F. Shewmake, and Mrs. G. R. Vowles are attending the meetings of the Concord
Presbytery at Marion, N.C. Mrs. C. H. Hamilton of Davidson is the president of the Presbytery. Mrs. Alice Buckner and
her mother, Mrs. Bates, entertained at a tea Wednesday afternoon from four to six. Out-of-town guests were Mrs. Oscar Thies
and Mrs. Frank Thies of Charlotte. Several members of the faculty were guests of the Good Fellows Club at dinner
in Charlotte Friday noon. The speaker of the occasion was Dr. Wm. McAndrew, editor of School and Society. Professor W.
O. Puckett of Southwestern University, Memphis, Tenn., was a guest Saturday of Professor and Mrs. W. L. Porter. Coach and
Mrs. “Tex” Tilson and children, Sumner and Ann, were guests during the weekend of Coach and Mrs. G. F. Laird.
The Junior Christian Endeavor Society had as its speaker Sunday evening Professor E. F. Shewmake. His subject was “The Planning
of Programs.” Professor and Mrs. Robert Garth of Hunter College, New York City, are spending the Easter vacation with Mrs.
Garth's parents, Dr. and Mrs. T. W. Lingle. Several Davidson girls, who are teaching or studying elsewhere, spent Easter with
their parents. Among them were Miss Sarah Withers, Miss Susie Jackson, the Misses Mary and Lois Hamilton, Miss Agnes Brown,
and Miss Elizabeth Potts. Mr. G. D. Sample, former resident of Davidson and prominent alumnus of Davidson College, visited his
mother and sister in Davidson during the past week. Mr. Sample is manager of the sales division for Alabama of
the Addressograph Corporation. His headquarters are at Birmingham.

Library Features Many New Books
Several Interesting Literary Works Are Added To College Library
The Davidson College Library has recently acquired many new books. Several of the most interesting of these are as follows:
- To The North, by Jeannette Mirsky. This is the story of arctic explorations from the earliest times to the
present. It answers many questions that people ask about these expeditions.
- The Story of My Life, by Marie, Queen of Roumania. This book also portrays many of the European Nobility.
- Dostoevsky, by A. Yarmolinsky. This book vividly portrays the life of this famous Russian author.
- In the Steps of the Master, by H. Morton. This tells of the tour of this man in the
Holy Land. It presents the Biblical places in such a way that it makes the Bible seem more real.
- Spanish Towns and People, by R. M. McBride. This book presents vivid pictures of the warm life and rich
coloring of Spain. It is written by a noted author of travel books.
- Erasmus of Rotterdam, by Stefan Zweig. A biography written by the same author as Marie Antoinette.
- The New Dilemma, by Roger W. Babson. A book in which Babson gives a clear discussion on the New
Deal.
- Hornets' Nest, by Helen Ashton. A novel in which three doctors hold the center of the stage.
- You Must Relax, by Edmund Jacobson, M.D. A book that tells how to relax and get rest while continuing
to work.
- Modern Discoveries Which Help Us to Believe, by George Price. The title of this book is self-explanatory.

These LINEN SUITS “Take Life Easy”
- Single Breasted
- Double Breasted
- Sport Backs

If you're going to buy a linen suit this summer then it pays to buy a good one. You'll realize
that when you see how their smart style remains even after repeated washing. These are good linens.

“Fruit of the Loom” SHIRTS $1.45
You don't know what soft collar comfort, smartness is until you've worn one of these shirts. Cantwilt collars, plain colors,
all-over patterns, specially priced.

“Fruit of the Loom” Neckband SHIRTS $1.65
Plain colors and stripes.

Just Arrived! 100 Dozen of these Fast Selling JOCKEY Shirts and Shorts 48¢

NUNN-BUSH ANKLE FASHIONED OXFORDS FOR MEN $6.75
White shoes must fit trim and feel comfortable. That's why you like Nunn-Bush shoes. Plain whites, brown whites. Other Nunn-Bush
Shoes, $7.50

MEN’S DEPT. Street Floor
