THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 10, 1935

Potter To Get ROTC Decoration
40 Awards Will Be Presented To Graduating Officers At Final Parade

The final R.O.T.C. parade of the year will be held on May 15 in Richardson Stadium at three o'clock, at which time the commissions, certificates, and military awards will be presented. On May 8 the junior officers will present a formal guard mounting. At this time the rising seniors will enact an exhibition guard mounting designated to illustrate correct procedure and details of the ceremony. On May 13 there will be held the annual competitive drill between the different companies for possession of the cup and accompanying streamers to be attached to the company guidon. These streamers are to be carried throughout the following year and each succeeding year until won by another company. The name of the winning company and its student officer are to be engraved on the cup.

At the final parade, the first event of the program will be the presentation of the competitive drill cup to the commanding officer of the victorious company. Following this will come the awarding of commissions and certificates to the graduating officers. Men receiving the full commissions are James H. Batte, William F. Brewer, Luther E. Byerly, Robert T. Coit, A. Moreland Cunningham, Charles T. Fort, Edwin B. Garrett, Jr., Thomas H. Griffith, Charles C. Harris, Francis R. Hillier, Sidney L. Jetton, William L. Northern, Jr., Jay H. Ostwalt, Albert J. Potter, Joseph H. Powell, Jr., Lawrence E. Quarterman, John A. C. Robinson, Ansel C. Rogers, Percy M. Rogers, Courtney B. Ross, Baxter O. Simpson, James H. Simpson, John M. Smith, Albert C. Stutts, John R. Taylor, John K. Thompson, James R. Withers, Jr., and Gordon R. Wood.

As the R.O.T.C. regulations require that officers must have attained the age of twenty-one, the following men will be awarded certificates to be replaced by commissions upon reaching the age of twenty-one: Charles A. Coleman, Cameron D. Deans, Rigdon O. Dees, Jr., John M. Douglas, Jr., Gordon L. Green, Jr., Edwin G. Holt, Reginald M. Porter, Jr., William B. Ravenel, III, Robert H. Smith, Jr., Thomas H. Sutton, Jr., William B. Templeton, Hugh Yelverton, Jr.

Four men were unable to attend summer camp last year and will not be awarded either commissions or certificates. However, upon completion of this required work at Camp McClelland, Alabama, the regular commissions will be presented to these men. These men are: Dewey M. Hutchins, Robert L. Orr, Ray W. Richardson, and Ben L. Rose.

Following this, a representative of the Charlotte branch of the Reserve Officers Association will present a medal to Lieutenant-Colonel Albert J. Potter as the outstanding officer of the Davidson R.O.T.C. unit. “Taps” will then be sounded, signifying the end of another day and of another military year.

Lingle Families To Tour Europe Soon
Three Brothers To Make Trips Over Continent

Dr. T. W. Lingle, Dr. W. H. Lingle, and Dr. W. L. Lingle will make separate tours of Europe this summer. All the brothers have made several trips and this is no new experience. Dr. W. L. Lingle, president of Davidson College and eminent Presbyterian preacher and educator, and his wife will leave June 8 sailing on the great Italian liner, Conte di Savoia, for Naples. They will spend two to three weeks in Italy, Switzerland, and the Rhine Country, and then they will go over to Great Britain for the remainder of their stay. They expect to be back in Davidson the first week in August.

Dr. T. W. Lingle, professor of history at Davidson and an accomplished linguist, sails June 7, the day before Dr. and Mrs. Walter Lingle. He expects to spend most of his time in the Balkans. He will stop off for a short time in Paris and eastern Switzerland on the way to Trieste, and the next eight weeks will be spent in Yugoslavia, Bulgaria, Romania, Hungary, Czechoslovakia, Poland, East Prussia, Danzig, and the Dalmatian coast.

Dr. W. H. Lingle, the oldest of the brothers, a retired Presbyterian missionary who spent 42 years in China, sails Wednesday, June 12, for Oslo. He will spend the summer visiting friends in Norway, Sweden, and Finland and will make a trip to the North Cape. From there Dr. Lingle plans to go to Great Britain and remain there with his daughter, who married an English businessman stationed in China and later her husband was transferred home, until October 12.

Wednesday and Thursday
“ENTER MADAME”
ELISSA LANDI
CARY GRANT

Friday and Saturday
With Kermit Maynard

ENTIRE WEEK, Beginning May 13th
CARNIVAL OF ENCORE HITS!
Two different features daily for one glorious week! 12 great pictures, the favorites of recent seasons, brought back to thrill you!

Monday:
“WE'RE NOT DRESSING”
“THE THIN MAN”

Tuesday:
“MONKEY BUSINESS”
“COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO”

Wednesday:
“SIGN OF THE CROSS”
“42nd STREET”

Thursday:
“LITTLE WOMEN”
“IMITATION OF LIFE”

Friday:
“LITTLE MISS MARKER”
“TARZAN AND HIS MATE”

Saturday:
“THE DUDE RANGER”
“THE LAST ROUND-UP”

MATINEE NIGHT
10-15¢ CHARLOTTE, N. C. 10-20¢

Scholarships Awarded To Coleman And Hodge
C. A. Coleman and E. S. Hodge are both recent recipients of scholarships at important universities. Coleman's scholarship is in mathematics and physics. He will continue at Vanderbilt in the duties of assistant librarian, which he has held at Davidson. He will be graduated this year, after majoring in mathematics. Hodge will be assistant in the chemistry department at Syracuse University. After majoring in chemistry, he will be graduated in June. He has been active in YMCA work on the campus, and was in charge of boys’ work this year.

Around TOWN
The Junior-Senior Banquet of the Davidson High School was held Friday evening, April 26, in the banquet hall of Chambers Building. John Withers of the Junior Class was toastmaster, and the following responded with toasts: Bob Wood, president of the Junior class; Daily Pratt, president of the Senior class; Leona Spencer; Kenneth Pope; and Miss Mary Richards, of the faculty. A program of stunts, under the direction of Miss Bonnie Shelton, followed the banquet. Miss Kalista Hood, who has been studying dramatic art in New York...City, has returned for a visit with her parents, Dr. and Mrs. Fraser Hood. Professor and Mrs. F. K. Fleagle entertained the Thelemite Club at dinner Friday evening. Dr. W. J. Martin, former president of Davidson College and a member of the Club, was an out-of-town guest. The Music Club held its last meeting of the year Tuesday evening. Mrs. C. K. Brown was the leader of the program, which consisted of Russian and other Slavic folk music. Following the program, an informal reception was held in honor of Mrs. Norton G. Pritchett, who will leave Davidson at the close of the academic year.

Several young ladies of Davidson attended the May Fete at Salem College Saturday afternoon. Among them were the following: Misses Letitia and Lucy Currie, Goudyloch Erwin, Margaret Douglas, and Elizabeth Shewmake. The Booklovers Club entertained Friday afternoon at a garden party at the home of Mrs. Walter Lingle. The assisting hostesses were Mrs. G. B. Watts and Miss Kate Douglas. Out-of-town guests were Mesdames Z. V. Long, C. E. Raynal of Statesville, Z. V. Turlington, G. W. Taylor of Mooresville, and R. R. Morrison of Mount Mourne.

(Continued on Page 6, Col. 5)

Room Registration Cards Due May 10th

R. O. T. C. Uniform Deposit May Be Transferable To Student Registration Fee

Room registration cards were placed in the rooms Tuesday and must be in the hands of the Treasurer by May 10th. As stated in the College Catalogue: “Assignment of rooms is made by the Treasurer upon written application. No room will be reserved for a student until his registration fee of $10.00 has been paid, and except in the case of new men, until he has registered his selection of courses for the next semester. If a student wishes to retain the same room he is occupying for another year, he must, in addition to paying his registration fee, notify the Treasurer in writing on or before May 10, of his desire to hold this room. A student of the College who does not deposit his registration fee by May 10th will be considered as not returning the next session, and applications for entrance after this date will be considered only in case the number to be admitted has not been reached. The registration fee will be credited as part payment of the fall semester dues. This fee will be refunded upon request provided the Registrar or Treasurer is authoritatively notified before July 1st that the student will not enter. After that date the fee will not be returned.”

Students with R. O. T. C. deposits may use this money as a registration fee; but any shortage, due to lost equipment, must be made up in full with cash. The Treasurer's office announces that since there are always changes requested soon after Commencement, the room chart will not be made up until College closes. He further states that each individual request will have careful and sympathetic consideration. The students, to avoid complications, are asked to be prompt in attending to the business of room registration. Those students who were unable to procure cards may get them by calling at Mr. Jackson's office.

Among the GREEKS

BETA THETA PI
The Phi Alpha Chapter held a very enjoyable “feed” last Sunday night. Brothers Tom Miller and Oscar Bethea attended the May Frolics at the University of North Carolina.

PI KAPPA ALPHA
A number of the brothers left the campus for the weekend. The Beta Chapter plans to hold a dance in Charlotte the weekend of May 10. The place has not been decided on. Sky Cline attended the Junior-Senior dance at Winthrop last weekend.

KAPPA ALPHA
Brothers “Scotty” McLeod, Tom Duff, and Reginald Harris went to Chapel Hill for the May Frolics. Brothers Tom and H. S. McConnell spent the weekend in Gastonia. The Sigma Chapter is planning a party on the river the weekend of the 18th.

SIGMA ALPHA EPSILON
Brothers Ed Armfield, Reid Bahnson, Max Brittain, George Mathis, and Scott Shepherd attended the May Frolics at the University of North Carolina. Brothers Lamont Brown and Harris Barksdale sought the distance record for the weekend trip to Atlanta. The North Carolina Chapter is planning to have its annual dinner dance at the Charlotte Country Club Saturday night, May 11. Alumni and faculty visitors are expected to attend.

“—and how shall they hear without a preacher?”
A True School of the Prophets
UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY
RICHMOND, VIRGINIA

KAPPA SIGMA
The brothers left the campus last weekend for various points including Raleigh, Greensboro, Rock Hill, and Atlanta. A number of the brothers attended the Kappa Sigma - Kappa Alpha dance given at N. C. State. Brother Bill Higgins paid an extended visit to his home in Richmond. Brother Prosser took a short jaunt to Atlanta. The Delta Chapter is planning a house party and a banquet. The banquet will be given in the house. At the last meeting, the new officers elected for the forthcoming year were installed.

PI KAPPA PHI
The Epsilon Chapter is planning a party at the Sharon Country Club in Charlotte for the weekend of the 18th. John Willis was elected Pan-Hellenic representative at the last meeting. Brothers Paul Warren, Ben Wyche, and Hugh Yelverton went to the Junior-Senior of the W. C. N. C. in Greensboro. Mills Taylor attended the May Frolics at the University of North Carolina. Other members went to Rock Hill and Converse.

(Continued on Page 6, Col. 5)

Look Your Best With A Neat Haircut
COME TO NORTON’S BARBER SHOP

Above all
Your Best PUL) bce Lucky Strike
Others may disappoint. I never do. I’m always mild, always fine to taste—because I’m made of fragrant, expensive center leaves, only. Turn your back on top leaves. They’re raw, bitter, stinging. Turn your back on bottom leaves. They’re coarse, sandy, grimy. Before I consider it worthy, every leaf must be a center leaf, mild, fine-tasting, fragrant. I do not irritate your throat. Above all—I’m your best friend.

Copyright 1935, The American Tobacco Company.

TUNE IN—Luckies are on the air Saturdays, with THE HIT PARADE, over NBC Network 8 to 9 p.m. E. D.S. T.