THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 24, 1935

BASEBALL NINE MEETS CAROLINA TODAY AND THURSDAY

Sports Afield

TRACK AND BASEBALL TEAMS ARE DEFEATED

SPORTS TACTICS

By H. L. KUYKENDALL

TEX AND TECH

None other than Coach “Tex” Tilson paid a visit to the Wildcats' lair last week. “Tex,” a former Davidson mentor and now track coach at Virginia Tech, had plenty of smiles ready for his former acquaintances here besides a bag full of tricks which finally enabled the Gobblers to win by a little over 7 points. Laying a confiding hand upon the reporters’ shoulders, the tall and good-natured mentor prepared for the verbal bombardment that followed. Questioned about how he felt about being at Davidson and pulling a victory over his old charges, “Tex” replied, “It’s a good feeling to be back at Davidson and a good feeling to be able to beat Davidson.” Explaining that he was a V.P.I. man, Tilson replied that next to Tech he was always for Davidson. Asked whether his present track team was above average, “Tex” replied that it was average in the sprints and weights, above average in the distances (half mile and two mile), and a little below average in the pole vault and javelin. Tilson also added that his star pole vaulter had to “drop out because of an appendicitis operation.” In closing, Tex stated that he liked his job at V.P.I. “very much.”

FARE THEE WELL

A real treat was staged by Earle Frazier and Mothershead of V.P.I. in the mile and half-mile runs. Earle took the lead up to the last 20 yards of both events but from there the situation changed. According to statements made by several of the visiting cadets, Mothershead always follows the leading man until the home stretch is approached in order to make his “effective sprint” much more effective. Needless to say, Earle deserves a lot of credit although he didn’t cop first honors. It was apparent that Mothershead exerted more than ordinary effort in effecting a win. Even so, however, this column takes occasion to acknowledge the Tech star as one of the best distance runners here in recent years.

MOANIN’ LOW

Starting out Friday afternoon, the baseball team looked as though it were out for revenge, leading the Dukes by one point until the sixth inning, when the count was knotted. In the tenth inning, Naktenis added the margin. Saturday was an off day in more ways than one. An injury to Catcher Ravenel’s arm started a period of substitutions that played havoc with the Wildcats' lineup, leaving only about two men in their original position at the end of the game.

WATCH OUT FOR WINDOWS

The big knock-’em down and drag-’em off intramural baseball is in our midst again and indications point to a season that will make the Giants sick with envy. So far the Sophs have devoured all competition in sight, having defeated the senior and freshman teams. Bud Hunter, “right underhander,” has been sizalin’ the big bad ball over the plate for the second-year men while Bondurant, Elder, Branton, and according to Bud, the whole trio of fielders too are all sharing honors. “Goofy” Cooke, besides holding down a first position, has been “Whoopin’ it up” to give added impetus. In the other departments, the Seniors seem to be doing “next best,” and at the time this article was written, they were busily engaged in mopping up the Juniors. The score has been withheld by request (of the Juniors). Dewey Hutchins and Archie Legare were the heavy batteries for the Seniors.

SPORT SPOTS

Paul Pittman casually stepped over 220 yards of low hurdles plus almost 12 feet in the pole vault to take the highest number of points for Davidson Saturday... Davidson, starting with Navy, in 1936, will seek to play some prominent school every year in football... Harris and Morgan are the most consistent ball stars for Davidson.

BASEBALL TEAM BEATEN IN TWO GAMES BY DUKE

Harris and Morgan Star Although Wildcats Lose Extra Inning Battle

DUKE WINS IN TENTH

Davidson Gets Three Hits As Devils Win Slugfest

The Davidson baseball team lost two games to the Duke team at Durham last Friday and Saturday.

Duke 3; Davidson 2

In the opening game, Don Mitchell's single with Naktenis on third with two men out in the last half of the tenth inning gave the Blue Devils a hard-fought victory. This run terminated a beautiful pitcher’s duel between Charlie Harris and Pete Naktenis. Charlie showed his best form of the season in holding Duke to seven hits, while the Cats were able to get only four safeties off the Southpaw slants of Naktenis. Davidson scored her two runs in the third inning by combining three walks and a sacrifice with a hit and a wild pitch. Michaels hit a home run into right field for the first Duke run, and another came in the sixth as a result of two hits and a stolen base. Jim Morgan not only led the Wildcat batters but he provided the fielding feature of the game. Batteries: Harris and Ravenel; Naktenis and Wagner.

Duke 13; Davidson 0

A barrage of sixteen base hits gave Duke a one-sided 13-0 victory over Davidson in the second game of the series. Reynolds May went the entire route for Duke, and, in blanking the 'Cats, he held them to three hits. Jack Jenkins started for Davidson, retired in favor of Lefty Porter for two-thirds of an inning, and then returned to the mound for the remainder of the game. The Blue Devils had two big innings, the second and the third, when they scored five runs in each. Huiskamp led the Duke attack with four hits in four tries, while Burns, Morgan, and Jenkins got Davidson's three hits.

YEARLING TRACK TEAM DEFEATED

V.P.I. Frosh Take Measure of Kittens Saturday, 65-51

The Davidson freshman track team was defeated by the visiting team from Virginia Polytechnic Institute last Saturday, April 20, by a score of 65-51. Bruce Parcell ran a beautiful mile, clipping his previous record by eight seconds, and coming in for first place. Barrow placed in five events and was high point man for the Wildkittens. Freeman and Wicker also bagged a number of points for Davidson. Ellis and Jenkins were high point men for the Technicians. The results of the meet are as follows:

100-yard dash—Jenkins, V.P.I., first; Shepherd, V.P.I., second; Bixler, Davidson, third. Time: 10.4.

One mile run—Parcell, Davidson, first; Cox, V.P.I., second; Olmstead, V.P.I., third. Time: 4:55.

220 low hurdles—Wicker, Davidson, first; Barrow, Davidson, second; Davis, V.P.I., third. Time: 28.7.

220-yard dash—Jenkins, V.P.I., first; Harrison, Davidson, second; Bixler, Davidson, third. Time: 23.7.

440-yard run—Copas, V.P.I., first; Bishop, V.P.I., second; Barrow, Davidson, third. Time: 54.2.

120 high hurdles—Barrow, Davidson, first; Wicker, Davidson, second; disqualified. Time: 16.7.

880-yard run—Bishop, V.P.I., first; Olmstead, V.P.I., second; Parcell, Davidson, third. Time: 2:14.5.

Pole vault—Ellis, V.P.I., first; Fort, Davidson, second; Lowrance, Davidson, third. Height: 11.

Shot—Freeman, Davidson, first; Sharkey, V.P.I., second; Davis, V.P.I., third. Distance: 48.54.

Discus—Freeman, Davidson, first; Sharkey, V.P.I., second; Davis, V.P.I., third. Distance: 119.10.

Javelin—Brown, V.P.I., first; Vaughn, V.P.I., second; Hogan, Davidson, third. Distance: 150 feet 1/4 inch.

TO ENTER TOURNAMENT

From left to right: Bill Snow, Jelly McClelland, George Cowan, Charlie Ross, and Captain Charlie Hamrick, members of the Varsity Golf team, who will enter the Southern Inter-Collegiate Championship tournament to be held this week in Athens, Georgia.

Glasgow Succeeds McPhail As Captain Of Track Squad

Team Spirit Trophy Is Given Big Jim Morgan

The trophy for the best exhibition of team spirit in basketball was won by Jim Morgan, a senior from Albemarle, N.C. This cup is awarded annually by the faculty basketball team composed of Prof. L. B. Schenk, Gene McEver, G. N. Martin, ‘Flake’ Laird, and ‘Doc’ Unger. Morgan is a three-letter man and this year he was again selected on the all-state football team by the leading sport scribes. He has starred constantly on the baseball, football, and basketball teams and has won letters in these sports for three years. He was elected captain of the football and basketball teams and in addition, is a member of the “D” Club. He is a member of the Pi Kappa Alpha Social Fraternity.

VARSITY TENNIS MEN VICTORIOUS

Defeat University of Richmond and South Carolina Here at Davidson

The Davidson varsity tennis team decisively defeated the University of South Carolina team in a return match here last Friday, April 19. The score of the match was 7-2, Davidson winning all the singles matches but dropping two of the doubles to the visitors. The following day, Saturday, April 20, the tennis team swept through the University of Richmond team with the score of 6-0. The doubles matches were all rained out. This match and the one with the University of South Carolina were return matches. Davidson has defeated both of these teams in previous encounters.Former matches played this season. The team has a meet with the University of North Carolina Wednesday, April 24, and then Lewis and Phifer will remain at Chapel Hill for the state tournament, to be held there the last three days of this week. They will compete in both the singles and the doubles. Davidson now holds the state singles title by virtue of Haverstadt’s victory in this tournament last year. The doubles team of Davidson went to the finals in the same tournament last year but was defeated by the Duke team.

Broad jump—Ellis, V. P. I., first; Harrison, Davidson, second; Barrow, Davidson, third. Distance: 19:6.

Chosen Last Week by Popular Vote Of Varsity Track Lettermen

Douglas M. Glasgow, of Charlotte, N. C., better known among students of Davidson as “Duke,” was elected captain of the varsity track squad for the present 1935 season. Glasgow succeeds Fred McPhail, also of Charlotte, who was elected captain of the team at the beginning of the season but was forced to decline this position because of an appendicitis operation, which necessitated his dropping out of active participation in intercollegiate competition. As the local team began to encounter competition with other track teams, it became evident that a captain would be needed and so Assistant Coach “Pete” Whittle made a visit to each letterman on the squad and asked him to make a selection for captain. After tabulating all votes, “Duke” was selected by a fairly good-sized majority.

Glasgow, the new captain, is a member of Phi Delta Theta social fraternity, the “D” Club, and is an active participant in both intercollegiate and intramural athletics. He has served on the track squad for four years.

Interest In Intramural Baseball Being Revived

This year as in no other year, the intramural baseball program has been highly successful. The interest in the popular pastime has mounted considerably since last year. The sophomores, ably led by Joe Hunter, have so far been able to hold their lead on the top. Quoting Capt. Joe Hunter of the Centennials, “we have one of the most airtight infields in the league,” to say nothing of other members of the team. The sophomores have played two games, one against the juniors and one against the seniors, and they tamed the fourth-year men by the score of 19-4. One of the most spectacular plays yet pulled in the current intramural season was a triple play by the sophomores against the seniors. The bases were loaded and there were no outs for the seniors when a line drive was caught by Chas. Elder, the sophomore shortstop, and he threw to the second baseman who in turn threw to first for the third out to retire the seniors. For the sophomores, Bill Bondurant, Charles Elder, Joe Hunter, and Bill Bradford have shone in recent games. The seniors are held together mainly by Archie Legare and Hugh Yelverton. The freshman mainstays are Capt. Rainey, Dixon, and Faison. The juniors are led by Bill Bell, Capt. Jom Cothran, and a new addition, “Six” Johnson.

“DRUGS” “SCHOOL MATERIALS” White Drug Co.

With this warm spring weather coming on, make our fountain your stopping place while you are downtown—we carry everything the student needs, so buy from us. “SODAS” “PRESCRIPTIONS”

Gobbler Cindermen Win Over Varsity In Track

LINKSMEN SPLIT EVEN IN GAMES Golfers Defeat Furman and Are Barely Defeated by Richmond University

The Davidson golfers overcame their previous defeat at the hands of Furman by trouncing them last Wednesday, by a score of 9½ to 8½. The Wildcat representatives lost their second match of the week to the University of Richmond golfers, by a score of 9½ to 8½. The Furman golfers defeated the Davidson boys on their first trip of the year but they managed to come through in the second match, which was played on the Carolina course in Charlotte. Ross and Snow met keen competition in the first foursome but Cowan and McLelland came through to save the match in the second foursome. The scores of the Furman match are as follows: In the first foursome, Charlie Ross won two points and lost one to Henry Daves, Furman. Bill Snow lost three points to Dave Ferguson, Furman. Ross and Snow lost three points to Dawes and Ferguson. In the second foursome, George Cowan won three points from G. Smith, Furman, and Ralph McClelland won two and lost one to Bentley Hines. Cowan and McClelland took 2½ points from Smith and Hines which saved the match for the Wildcat golfers. Ferguson of Furman was the medalist for the day with a 75, Ross 77, Cowan 79, and Snow and McClelland 80's.

Richmond vs. Davidson

On Friday, the golfers met the University of Richmond on the Carolina course, and lost by a score of 8½ to 9½. The Davidson men played a very good game but failed to overcome the accurate Richmond team. The scores for the day are as follows: In the first foursome, Reigels of Richmond, Va. State champion, beat Ross winning two points and losing one. Wright, of Richmond, won two and lost one to Geo. Cowan. In the second foursome, Ewell won two points from Bill Snow and Hamrick won two points from Platore, of Richmond. Snow and Hamrick won two points and lost one in the foursome. The medalist for the day was Ross, of Davidson, with a 75 and the next low score was by Wright of Richmond. The Davidson golfers played their other match on the Carolina course Monday afternoon against the Carolina team.

Freshman Tennis Team Loses Match To State

The Davidson Frosh Tennis Team was defeated Saturday morning, April 20, by the State Frosh team at State. They were beaten 4-3. The results were: Kenny (Davidson) beat Dulin (State), Frampton (Davidson) beat Spratt (State), Smith (State) beat Cooke (Davidson), Snook (State) defeated Rhinehardt (Davidson), and Crews (State) beat Hartzog (Davidson). The results of the doubles were Kenny and Frampton (Davidson) defeated Dulin and Spratt (State), and Snooks and Smith (State) defeated Moore and Cooke (Davidson).

Mothershead, V. P. I Flash, Defeats Earle Frazier In Feature Event

TURNER IS TECH STAR Deyerle, Pittman, Newton, and Melton Take Firsts

The cinder artists of Virginia Polytechnic Institute defeated the varsity and the freshman track teams here at Richardson Field in a doubleheader which was run off simultaneously. The score in the varsity meet was Davidson 59¼; Virginia Tech 66¾. The feature event of the afternoon was the renewal of the mile run duel between Earle Frazier, the Wildcat champion, and Mothershead, the V. P. I. flash. Earle, having just recovered from an annoying cold which had been hampering him for some time, hit his best time as yet in this season when he ran a 4:25 mile. Frazier led the Gobbler star by about five paces all the way until about the last twenty yards when Mothershead put on a terrific sprint to beat Frazier by about four yards. The two favorites began their duel early as at the gun, Frazier took the lead with Mothershead on his heels, leaving the rest of the field far behind. Mothershead stayed right behind Frazier, matching him stride for stride until the last twenty yards. Both runners, especially Frazier, turned in a very splendid performance in spite of the condition of the track, which was slow. Later on the program, the same thing happened on a smaller scale in the half mile. Earle, with a small lead on his opponent, was overtaken about ten yards from the tape.

For the Gobblers, Turner looked especially impressive as he won the 220, the 440, and placed second to his teammate in the century dash, piling up a total of 13 points in three events. Billy Merchant, trying the two mile for the first time this season (he had been running the mile), turned in a beautiful performance and lacked only a few feet of conquering “Wee Willie” Bell. For the Wildcats, Newton and Melton won first places with five points each.

The summary:
100-yard dash—Prichard (V.P.I.), Turner (V.P.I.), Dickson (D).
One mile run—Mothershead (V.P.I.), Frazier (D.), Bell (D.), 4:24.4.
High hurdles—Deyerle (D.), Halverton (V.P.I.), Parker (D.), 16.4.
220-yard dash—Turner (V.P.I.), Prichard (V.P.I.), Dickson (D.), 22.5.
440-yard run—Turner (V.P.I.), Prichard (V.P.I.), Glasgow (D.), 52.2.
Low hurdles—Halverton (V.P.I.), Pittman (D.), Deyerle (D.), 27.4.
Two-mile run—Bell (V.P.I.), Merchant (D.), Gullette (D.), 10:12.8.
880-yard run—Mothershead (V.P.I.), Frazier (D.), 2:23.
Pole vault—Pittman (D.), Shafer (V.P.I.), Mottole (V.P.I.), Lee (D.) (tie for third), 11.9.
Shot put—Wilson of the Gobbler squad, Deyerle, Pittman (V.P.I.), Potter (D.), Siewers (D.), 41.9.
Discus—Rivers (V.P.I.), Tipton (D.), Siewers (D.), 114.7½.
High jump—Rollins (V.P.I.), Gammon (D.), McPhail (D.), 6.1.
Javelin—Newton (D.), Pierce (D.), Johnston (D.), 161.6½.
Broad jump—Melton (D.), Peabody (D.), Dickson (D.), 20.6½.

Huron College (London, Ontario) is reputedly the smallest college in the world—its enrollment totals only 20 students.

NO SHORT-CUTS IN HANES SHORTS!

Hanes cuts their shorts to the size the label says. They're big enough to let you bend and reach without any gripping or ripping!

POPULAR PRICES LONG WEAR SERVICE

HANES Shirts, Shorts, Union-Suits for Men and Boys

P. H. HANES KNITTING COMPANY WINSTON-SALEM