THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 24, 1935

F. SHEWMAKE WRITES ARTICLE

“Christian Observer” Prints Professor's Discussion, “Pulpit Pronunciation”

Dr. Edwin F. Shewmake, Davidson professor of English, recently had published in The Christian Observer an article on the subject
of “Pulpit Pronunciation.” Dr. Shewmake says in this article that it is not the large points, such as wrong accent
and departures from the authoritative pronunciation heard in the speech of the uneducated and careless, but the lack of “those
niceties of speech which distinguish really beautiful oral expression from that which is merely understandable and not grossly inaccurate.”

Dr. Shewmake does not want an artificially precise English, as he says that it is far from pleasing to hear
a speaker give “e” its “full value in such words as ‘kindness’ and ‘subject’.” The article then discusses the effects
for good and bad of the section of the country on a minister’s pronunciation. The author commends many Southern ministers
on their pronunciation of “u” such as in “duke” and “tune,” but he censures them for their pronunciation of “bird”
and “term.” He says that these are often pronounced “boid” and “toim.”

The professor states, too, that more objectionable than these errors is the pronunciation of the “e” in “pen,” “ten,” and
“fen” like the “i” in “pin,” “tin,” and “fin.” The article also points out many errors that are often made,
such as saying “kem” for “came,” “mon” for “man,” and “idear” for “idea.” Dr. Shewmake says that to be very
effective, the study of phonetics should be followed by intensive drill, preferably under supervision, until right habits of pronunciation have
become firmly established. In conclusion, Dr. Shewmake says that the exigencies of modern civilization make more headaches prevalent.

ROTC Trophy To Be Awarded Soon

Major Rhett Will Give Handsome Cup To Best Company

The P. M. S. & T. Trophy, awarded yearly for the best drilled R. O. T. C. unit at Davidson
College, is to be presented on May 13. Major Rhett gives this loving cup each year to the company that
is adjudged the most proficient on the drill field. The captain of the winning platoon is allowed to keep the
prized award as a permanent possession. In addition, the members of the best trained section are presented a streamer which
is worn on the guidon as a symbol of their distinction.

The trophy is a silver loving cup about eighteen inches in height, carrying the following inscription: “Davidson College R. O.
T. C. Best Drilled Company. Won by 1935.” It is now on display at White Drug Company. The judges, who
have not been selected at this time, will decide the winner at the regular drill period on May 13, and
Captains A. M. Cunningham, C. T. Fort, A. C. Rogers, H. Yelverton, and John Douglas are whipping their men into
the best of condition.

Five Attend “Y” Conference

Local “Y” Officers Go To Joint Meet Held Near Greensboro This Week-End

A group of men, consisting of Harvey Glass, Wade Boggs, Walter Dickson, Albert McClure, and Walter Sprunt, is going to
a Y. W.-Y. M. C. A. Officers’ Training Conference this week-end. Walter Sprunt is treasurer of this conference. The conference
will be held at the beautiful Camp Nawakwa, situated about twenty miles from Greensboro. It will begin on Friday and
end Sunday.

On Friday afternoon the officers will register, and that evening, at the general assembly, the devotional will be led by
Miss Lucy Cherry Crisp. Next, Rev. Lee C. Sheppard will speak on “Dare We Be Christians?” A general discussion will
follow this talk. On Saturday morning Paul N. Deering, secretary of the “Y” at V. P. I., will talk on
“What Are the Responsibilities of a Student Christian Association on a College Campus?” After a recess, the members will divide
into various discussion groups that will be led by Miss Lucy Cherry Crisp, Mr. Paul N. Deering, Rev. Lee Sheppard,
Mr. Harry Comer, and Mr. E. S. King. After supper, at a business meeting, they will have nominations for officers
of the following year, discussion of Blue Ridge Conference, and of “Our Obligation to the National Organization.” Paul N. Deering
will lead the devotional with a talk on “My Life—A Story.” The last day will be spent in election of
officers and the various discussion groups. After intermission, Rev. Sheppard will make the morning address, “Making Our World Christian or
Pagan.”

Dancing Censured At Church Meeting

Presbytery Representatives Submit Unfavorable Decision To Nesbit

The sixty-sixth statedThe session of Kings Mountain Presbytery met in the Belmont Presbyterian Church on Saturday, April 20, for its
regular business transactions. Among the topics discussed was the advisability of dancing on the Davidson College campus. The Presbytery went
on record as opposing, in any form, dancing at Davidson. This decision was made in answer to a letter from
Dr. C. R. Nesbit, chairman of the committee appointed by the college board of trustees to consider petitions recently presented
to the board by various student groups, for an opinion. The final vote on the question was taken after a
spirited and lengthy discussion of more than an hour. Several other items were considered, but this is the one most
concerned with student interest. Members of the committee are attempting to secure the opinion of each of the governing Presbyteries
on this matter. So far, the decision of only two have been made public.

Debaters Win Decision Over Opposing Team
(Continued from Page 1)

The southern team was composed of A. C. Stutts and Harold Sugg; the western team of Tyler Port and Salango;
and Wade Boggs and Bob Smith made the northern team. Each of these teams had very successful trips, losing only
two matches out of ten. There have been three home debates this year to date, all of which were won
by Davidson.

Lucky Strike Advertisement:
I am made only of the choice center leaves. The top leaves are bitter, biting. The bottom leaves are gritty,
tough, and unpalatable. My fragrant, expensive center leaves—so mellow and rich—give you the mildest, best-tasting smoke. I do not irritate
your throat. To anxiety, I bring relief. I am your best friend.

Atlanta Alumni Favor Dancing
Resolution Is Sent To Dr. Nesbit, Chairman Of Trustee’s Committee

The alumni chapter of Atlanta, Ga., held its regular meeting on Founder's Day, April 9. Invitations were sent to the
alumni in Georgia and an exceptionally large group was present. The program consisted of a luncheon, an address by Capt.
Norton G. Pritchett of Davidson, the election of new officers, the passing of a special resolution, and regular local business.
A resolution was passed stating that the Atlanta Chapter of Davidson Alumni was in favor of dancing on the Davidson
campus. The resolution was sent to Dr. Charles Nisbet, chairman of the trustees’ committee on dancing. New officers were elected
for the coming year. The retiring officeholders were Scott Candler, president, and Hugh MacMillan, secretary. The newly-elected officers were Harlee
Branch, president, and Ed MacNair, secretary. This chapter is one of the strongest that Davidson has. It was the first
to have monthly meetings. These are held in the form of luncheons, which makes it possible for practically all members
to attend.

Military Frat To Hold Spring Initiation Soon

The Fifth Regiment of the Scabbard and Blade is planning to hold its spring initiation of new members during the
first week in May. At this time, the juniors who will form the nucleus of next year’s group will be
taken in. The bids have been sent out, but these names will not be announced until the men are pledged.
This group is planning to organize all of the juniors, so that they will have a better chance to win
the Proficiency Cup and Military Field Day at camp this summer.

At The Local Theatre

Wednesday, May 1
TEN DOLLAR RAISE
Edward Everett Horton gives a grand portrayal of a mousy little bookkeeper who can’t marry Karen Morley until he gets
a salary increase. William Alan Dinehart, the villain, as a high-pressure salesman, unloads some supposedly worthless property on Eddie—then the
worm turns.

Thursday and Friday, May 2 and 3
NAUGHTY MARIETTA
A thundering big melodious adventure picture with lots of romance and a storybook plot. You've never heard singing lovelier than
Jeanette MacDonald and Nelson Eddy give you in this Victor Herbert musical. The lilting tunes of both stars—the light story
of the naughty princess—and the usual fine directing of W. S. Van Dyke make this the best cinema of the
week.

Saturday, May 4
TRAVELING SALESLADY
A bit of amusing entertainment concocted to make you relax and laugh. It has Joan Blondell, Hugh Herbert, Glenda Farrell,
and William Gargan—all at their best; clever dialogue and story. Frothy, but funny.

Monday and Tuesday, May 6 and 7
CARDINAL RICHELIEU
Again George Arliss portrays another great personage in history for the public: Cardinal Richelieu, minister of Louis XIII. Maureen O'Sullivan
supports “the grand old man of the screen.”

Copyright 1935, The American Tobacco Company.
