THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 20, 1935

OVENS TALKS AT VESPER SERVICE
Quartet Gives Special Music On Program Presided Over By Simpson

“Although business men may be losing faith in the Blue Eagle, they are not losing faith in the American flag or the Cross”; this was the principal thought in the talk given by Mr. David Ovens, prominent Charlotte business man, at the Y. M. C. A. vespers last Sunday night. Jimmy Simpson, of the senior class, presided at the meeting and special music was rendered by a quartet composed of Hubert Morris, Charlie Ramseur, Frank Tucker, and Donald Pfohl. Mr. Tom Glasgow, who was a speaker at vespers last fall, introduced Mr. Ovens, who has held many important positions in the retail organizations of the country.

Mr. Ovens stated that although many have said that we are living in an interesting age, this was always the case with every age and that the only thing that was different about this age was that many of our old and time-honored institutions, both economic and religious, are under fire. Ovens then switched to a brief discussion of the soundness of the government. He said: “Although there are many things about the government that I don’t like, I believe that it is fundamentally sound, and that President Roosevelt is a sound Christian leader.”

The speaker then remarked that the greatest thing the depression did for us was to get us back to fundamentals, much in the same way that Paul’s failure at Athens caused him to come down to earth and have a great success at Corinth. He went on to say about these fundamentals: “The N. R. A. is no more than an application of Christian ideals to business. The first code was written by Moses on ten tablets of stone at Mt. Sinai, and the first code of fair competition was given by Christ, when He said, ‘Do unto others as you would have them do to you.’” He concluded with the statement, “Simple faith in the power of the Master to forgive sins is all that is needed in this age.” The meeting was closed by a prayer by Mr. F. L. Jackson.

Queens Girls Put On Cabaret Party
Henderson Dancing School Provides Entertainment For Social Event

The junior class at Queens-Chicora College in Charlotte sponsored a cabaret entertainment in the dining hall of the college last Friday night which was enjoyed by a large crowd of visitors, including a representation from Davidson. In all, a crowd of around two hundred people were seated at tables of four in the dining room, which was decorated with red and white crepe in accordance with a Valentine motif. Dinner was served to music furnished by a Charlotte orchestra. Special entertainment for the occasion was provided by a lengthy floor show. Several dancing numbers were performed by members of Henderson’s School of Dancing. Bernice M. Link, featured accordionist, formerly an NBC artist and now affiliated with Parker-Gardner Company, rendered several accordion selections. The most popular performers of the evening were the Modern Maids of Melody, the Hubbard Sisters. They were called back for several encores by the enthusiastic applause of their audience. The Hubbard sisters are students at Queens-Chicora College and have sung over the radio on several occasions.

Deputation To Queens Planned By Eu Society

The Eumenean Literary Society, in a meeting held last night, conducted an election of officers, the results of this election not being available when this paper went to press. Those who have held office since the last election are: J. L. Shirey, president; R. B. Lindsay, vice-president; John Allen, secretary, and W. J. Livingston, critic. The society announces that on next Tuesday night the regular weekly meeting will feature a talk by Dr. C. K. Brown, professor of economics. Plans are being made to send a deputation to Queens, where a literary program of some sort will be held. An exchange of deputations with this popular Charlotte school is an annual affair.

Among the GREEKS

Beta Theta Pi: The Phi Alpha Chapter held a banquet Saturday, February 16th, at the Chamber of Commerce hall in Charlotte. “Skip” Brown was toastmaster, and around fifty brothers, dates, and visitors were present. A beautiful floor show was given by the Henderson School of Dancing. Among the visitors and alumni over the weekend were Mr. and Mrs. C. O. Kuester, of Charlotte; Mr. Frank Bayer, of Tyrone, Pennsylvania, and Mr. Frank Holt, of Charlotte.

Pi Kappa Alpha: Initiated into the Beta Chapter recently were John Horton, of Albemarle; Campbell Cline, Concord; Martin Lafferty, Concord; Jack Lafferty, Charlotte; Jack Durham, Norfolk, Va.; Ogburn Spoon, Greensboro; Don Cleveland, Staunton, Va.; Milton Crisp, Welch, W. Va.; Doug Neal, Ruffin, and Chas. Raynall, Statesville.

Kappa Alpha: Approximately fifty brothers and guests were present at the dinner in the Charlotte Hotel last Saturday night. “Gus” Maynard acted as toastmaster.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon: The initiation for the Theta Chapter was held last Wednesday night in the Eumenean Literary Hall. The following were initiated: George Matthis, Durham; Max Brittain, Charlotte; Yates Faison, Charlotte; Scot Shepard, Charlotte; Harris Barksdale, Jackson, Miss.; William Nicholson, Union, S. C.; Reid Bahnson, Winston-Salem; Charles Moore, Charlotte; Torry McLean, Lumberton; Henry Eve, Augusta; James Newton, Livingston, Ala., and William Turner, Greenwood, S. C. In attendance among the alumni over the weekend was George Weeks, Rocky Mount. Greenville, S. C.; John Maddox, Clarence Kirven, New Bern, and William Cely, Jr., Greenville, S. C. Guests at the initiation ceremony were Mr. Fred Bahnson, of Winston-Salem, and Prof. J. L. Douglas, of Davidson.

Kappa Sigma: A banquet was given by the Delta Chapter last Saturday night at the Charlotte Hotel with “Wimpy” Ravenel acting as toastmaster. Approximately sixty-five were present. A visiting alumnus was Mack Holland of Gastonia.

Pi Kappa Phi: The new furniture, furnishings, and decorations recently arrived for the lodge. The alumni present for the mid-winter dances were: Hugh Turrentine, Wilmington; Red Stewart, Mt. Holly; Bradford McLean, Aberdeen; “Dunk” Hunter, Belmont; George Ross, Wadesboro; Alan Graham, Greenville, S. C.; John Miller, Jefferson S. C.; Larry Boyd, Charlotte, and William Hampson, Charlotte.

Phi Gamma Delta: The Delta Kappa Chapter gave a banquet in Charlotte at the S & W Cafeteria on Saturday, February 16. Among the visitors present were: Miss Patricia Gail, New York City, and Mr. Charles Mickey of Winston-Salem. Several alumni attended the mid-winter dances, namely, Mr. Tommy Wilson and Miss Patricia Padrick, and Mr. James Taylor with Miss Kathleen Madden of Knoxville, Tenn., and Mrs. J. E. Holt, Greensboro, were guests of the chapter. The initiation will be next Saturday afternoon in the Dome Room of Chambers Building. The annual Norris Pig Dinner will be at the S & W in Charlotte at seven o’clock that night.

Phi Delta Theta: The Gamma Chapter initiated four men last Tuesday night, February 12. The initiates were: Billy Battle Crooks, Meridian, Miss.; John Edward McClennen, Atlanta, Ga.; Wallace Tonnissen, Jacksonville, Fla.; James Westall, Asheville. The alumni visiting over the weekend were: Alfred Grant, Mebane; Madison Armistead, Weldon; Robert Glasgow, Charlotte; Pete Brown, Davidson. Julian West acted as toastmaster at the banquet last Saturday night at Efird’s in Charlotte, at which about fifty-five attended. A very unique song arrangement was given by the trio that was composed of Madison Armistead, P. D. Guerrant, and Buddy Robinson.

Sigma Phi Epsilon: Among the alumni present as guests of the Epsilon Chapter over the weekend was C. F. Gold, University of North Carolina. Visitors present were Alex Henderson and Don Price, Clemson, and Kenneth Swope, Welch, W. Va. Forty-five brothers and dates attended the banquet at Efird’s in Charlotte. Teal Rogers acted as toastmaster. Beta Chapter entertained with a banquet on Saturday in Efird’s Main Dining Room. H. H. Smallridge, toastmaster, made the welcoming address and Miss Virginia Hardin, chapter sponsor, made the response. Bill Snow, newly-elected president, presented the initiates with recognition buttons, and Blanton Little, retiring president, with an S. M. C. key. Miss Martha Petteway rendered several numbers at the piano. Alumni present this weekend were Jim Ashton, Henry Hodgin, Jim Hurst, Charlie Little, and Andy Little. Visitors were Pete Marchant. Two visitors, DOUGLAS LEADS IN SCHOLARSHIP

Senior Scholastic Standings Are Released By Registrar Hengeveld

John M. Douglas leads the senior class in scholastic standing, according to the list released by Registrar F. W. Hengeveld last week. The averages cover a period of three and a half years, including the last semester. John Douglas is the son of Dr. J. L. Douglas, of the physics department. His average for the three and a half years has been exceptionally high. Mr. Hengeveld’s list gives him an average for the period of 3.323. The next seven men in the order of their averages are: R. T. Coit, Richmond, Va.; W. C. Neill, Hollins, Va.; A. B. Rhodes, Rocky Point; M. W. Alderman, Alcolu, S. C.; W. M. Bogart, Charlotte; J. H. Powell, Navasota, Texas, and C. A. Coleman, Salisbury. All of these men were initiated into the local chapter of Phi Beta Kappa last fall.

Several of Davidson’s best athletes are among those who have high averages. Courtney Ross, stellar basketball player, has an average of 2.806, and Fred McPhail, captain of the track team this year, averaged 2.701, ranking among the first sixteen of the class. Charlie Fort, captain of the wrestling team, and Johnny Mackorell, captain of the football team and all-state Hickory, also had averages well within the higher part of the list.

“Run it...”

AT THE LOCAL THEATRE
Thursday, Feb. 21
WINNING TICKETThis is a very amusing comedy with an all-star comedy cast. Teo Carrillo plays the lead and is supported by Louise Fazenda and Ted Healey. This comedy has received favorable criticism and should be entertaining.

Friday, Feb. 22
ALL THE KING'S HORSES
This is another musical starring Carl Brisson, who made a name for himself in “Murder at the Vanities.” He is supported by Mary Ellis, Edward Everett Horton, and Kathrine DeMille. This picture is said to be one of the best musicals of the season.

Saturday, Feb. 23
SEQUOIA
This picture is taken in Sequoia National Park and is full of shots showing the beautiful scenery there. The story is that of the peculiar friendship of two animals in the park. They do some excellent acting. Jean Parker is also in the cast.

Monday and Tuesday, Feb. 25 and 26
DEVIL DOGS OF THE AIR
This is a fast-moving air picture starring James Cagney, Pat O’Brien, and Frank McHugh. There are good action shots in this picture and it should be entertaining for all.

College Quartet Sings At High Point Church
The Davidson College Quartet, composed of Hubert Morris, Donald Pfohl, Charles Ramseur, and Frank Tucker, sang at the First Presbyterian Church in High Point Sunday morning. They were accompanied by Prof. Pfohl, who played the organ for the entire service. He is supported by Margaret Lindsey and a quarterback from there.

Spring Issue Of Yowl To Be Off Press March Fifteenth
The Davidson Music Club held its annual election at the last meeting. The officers are: Mrs. Mattie Burwell Murphy, president; Mrs. Ruth Cathey, vice-president; Mrs. W. B. Hamrick, secretary; and Miss Bonnie Shelton, treasurer. Mrs. Ruth Cathey is also chairman of the program committee.

Prof. and Mrs. J. C. Pfohl entertained Tuesday night after the Brinkman concert, in honor of Prof. and Mrs. Joseph Brinkman, of Ann Arbor, Michigan. The Quadranglers’ Club gave a reception Thursday night, after the lecture, for Dr. and Mrs. Hardin Craig. Mrs. John Rhett and Mrs. Edward Erwin poured coffee and were assisted in serving by Mrs. W. G. McGavock, Mrs. S. S. Minault, and the Misses Elizabeth Shewmake, Goudyloch Erwin, Mary Louise Moffett, and Ann Lee Pritchett.

The Thelemite Club held an open meeting Wednesday night, February 13, at 8:30. Misses Mary and Lizzie Young were hostesses. The Twentieth Century Club met Friday afternoon at the home of Mrs. Cloyd Potts. The Book-Lovers Club was entertained Friday night at the Civic League Hall by Mrs. Emma Black and Mrs. Frazer Hood. The program, “Rivers in Music,” was in charge of Mrs. G. B. Watts, Miss Hattie Thompson, and Mrs. G. R. Vowles. They were assisted in the program by Mrs. W. P. Cumming, Adele Arbuckle, Warren Babcock, Richard Vowles, Frank Tucker, and Hubert Morris. Prof. Robert Bailey, a new member of the Davidson College French department, gave a piano solo, “Deep River.”

Miss Orrie Steele was hostess to the Kill Kare Club Thursday night. Dr. Oscar Fulcher, of Welch, W. Va., was a weekend guest of his brother, Prof. H. E. Fulcher. Captain and Mrs. Cochran have as their guest Captain Cochran’s niece, Miss Williams, of Greenville, S. C. Mrs. J. J. Withers, of School Street, entertained at dinner Saturday night, in honor of Mrs. Thomas Shipman, sister of Mrs. J. R. Withers. Major and Mrs. John Rhett spent the weekend with their daughter, Miss Elizabeth Rhett, who is a freshman at Converse College. Miss Elizabeth Hamrick entertained the younger set at a Valentine party Thursday evening. Miss Maline Lyon visited during the week with Miss Agnes Brown, who is a junior at Salem College.

Musicians Will Perform At Mitchell Thursday
The Glee Club and Orchestra will go to Mitchell College in Statesville Thursday night where they will present a program to be sponsored by the Music Department of that college. In addition to the regular program, Warren Babcock will present several ‘cello solos.

Let Us Serve You
We Are The Best In Shoe Repairing

Visiting brothers at the recent formal initiation were P. M. Lafferty, R. H. Lafferty, A. C. Cline, and H. Hollingsworth. Professor Mebane of the mathematics department was pledged to the Beta Chapter.

NO SHORT-CUTS IN HANES SHORTS!
Hanes cuts their shorts to the size the label says. They’re big enough to let you bend and reach without any gripping or ripping!

POPULAR LONG WEAR SERVICE
HANES Shirts, Shorts, Union-Suits for Men and Boys
P. H. HANES KNITTING COMPANY
WINSTON-SALEM

Trustees Hear Band Program
Three Numbers Played In Chapel This Morning Honoring Board Members
The Davidson College Band played three numbers in chapel this morning for the benefit of the trustees who held their meeting immediately after the chapel exercises. The first number was conducted by James C. Harper, director of the Lenoir band, who is a trustee and an alumnus of Davidson. The program was as follows: March Shenandoah, Goldman; Rosary, Nevin, cornet solo by A. Moreland Cunningham; Boat, Kearn. Selections from Show Boat. Cunningham, the soloist on the program, has presented several solos at concerts this winter and will be one of the soloists at the concert which the band is to present soon. This concert is the second of the series of weekly programs to be presented in chapel by the various musical organizations of the college.

Blythe Makes Address To Spanish Fraternity
A combined meeting of Sigma Delta Pi, honorary Spanish fraternity, and the Spanish Club was held in the Shearer Hall club room last Wednesday evening at nine o'clock. Professor P. L. Blythe was the speaker of the occasion and delivered an interesting address on Spanish Philology. In the absence of Hugh Yelverton, president of Sigma Delta Pi, Tom Downey presided over the meeting. There was no particular business to be discussed, so the group adjourned to meet again in March.

Eta Sigma Phi To Hold National Meeting Soon
Eta Sigma Phi, classical Greek fraternity, will convene in one of the western states some time during the next two months. This classical Greek fraternity will announce the date of its convention in the near future. Few southern colleges or universities plan to send delegates to the annual meeting of the group. A southern convention is to be held at Atlanta some time soon, but no definite plans for the conclave have been made as yet.

Editor McPhail Announces Original Joke Contest To Last Until March 1
A sign more sure than a Scotchman throwing his Christmas tree out the window that spring is in the offing will be revealed March 15, with the appearance of that 24-page compound of howlarious dynamite, The Yowl, otherwise known as “The Davidson Phoney Papers.” Sparing no effort to make the spring edition a success, Editor McPhail announces that a feather arm-tickler will be given free with every copy and that he has engaged CWA Project No. 1006A to construct aisles all over the campus for innocent readers to roll in.

In a last desperate effort to evoke stray bits of humor from a sedate campus, McPhail announces an original joke contest. Best joke gets a carton of Life Savers. Any Davidson student may enter any number of original jokes. All jokes must be turned in to some member of the staff by March 1.

Howell Overton, humorous young sophomore, has been elevated to the position of art editor following the failure of Collier Ellis to return. Other changes will feature exchange cartoons as well as exchange jokes. It is hoped, but rather doubtfully so, that some humorous light poetry will appear. Spring sports will be covered, sighed Editor McPhail, evidently thinking of swimming, and it is a matter of conjecture whether anything humorous will be printed. However, it is certain that sport will NOT be defined as a sudden jump nor will baseball be termed a howl of a vulgar order, and anyone who says golf is an inlet or track is a low deception will be thrown off the staff.

Gordon Wood will print under an assumed name “Gertrude’s Steins on the Table,” and Richard Vowles and Gibson Smith are expected to bolster up the short story section so as to give Wood's story company in misery. “After looking the situation over thoroughly and condemning anything funny to a sudden death,” confided McPhail, “I feel confident in assuring the million expectant readers of this magazine that it will be the worst ever printed.” And Ben Wyche, enterprising lad of Weldon who made good as business manager of said magazine, informed this unsuspecting reporter that “Anyone who buys The Yowl is a sap!”

DUO 341
Automatic phonograph with 2-speed turntable, spring-suspended motor board, and rubber-floated tone arm. Magic Brain Radio covers broadcasting from 140-410 and 540-18000 kcs. Price, complete with RCA Micro-Sensitive Tubes .. $325.00

RADIO MUSIC from all the world
RECORDED MUSIC of all time with the RCA VICTOR DUO (AUTOMATIC)
Now you can buy, in one instrument, radio programs from all the world, and all that any phonograph can give. Here in RCA Victor’s new DUO 341 you get the most lifelike reproduction of records yet achieved, particularly with the new Higher Fidelity Victor Records. And the sensation of radio science... the RCA VICTOR MAGIC BRAIN which makes the radio bring in far more stations, with higher fidelity in every note. Call at our store — see the Magic Brain — hear the difference it makes!

VAN PATTERSON
414 WEST