“CHRISTIANITY” IS THEME OF OTT’S LECTURE SERIES

Che Davidsontan

ALENDA LU xX U ORTA LIBERTAS

DAVIDSON TRIUMPHS OVER WAKE FOREST TO END GRID SEASON

VOL. XXIII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., DECEMBER 4, 1935 NUMBER 10

WILDCATS TROUNCE DEACONS TO TUNE OF 14-7

SPEER CONCLUDED OTT’S FOUNDATION ADDRESSES

General Topic of Series as a Whole Was “What Christ Means to Me”

SPEAKS FOUR TIMES

Four Phases of Christ’s Life Taken Up in Talks

Dr. Robert E. Speer, Secretary of the Southern Presbyterian Board of Foreign Missions, concluded the series of lectures sponsored by the Ott’s Foundation, Wednesday morning, December 4. The first of these lectures was delivered at the Sunday Vesper service, while the remaining three occupied the daily chapel services. The general topic of the series as a whole was “What Christ Means to Me,” in the form of a defense of Christianity against current heresies, in accordance with the purpose of the Foundation. The specific topics for the four lectures were as follows: “What the Earthly Life of Christ Means to Me,” “What the Death of Christ Means to Me,” “What the Resurrection of Christ Means to Me,” and “What the Lordship of Christ Means to Me.”

In the first of these sermons dealing with Christ's earthly life, Dr. Speer pointed out that “it provides an ever-present occupation for our mind, it furnishes an ideal character to contemplate, and it presents this character as normative and imitable. And as imitable where I most need an ideal and its correction and inspiration, as is the matter of forgiveness, purity, unselfishness, energy, prayer, and the faith that spiritual forces are alone significant and determinative. And I see Jesus’ method of imitation as reasonable and right, outward according to His way, inward according to His mind. Supremely the life of Jesus reveals the right adjustment of life toward God; His own life was absolutely right and His judgment infallibly true.”

In that lecture concerning the death of Christ, Dr. Speer drew attention to the following points: “It supplies a background of mystery so deep and so dark that, set against it, our deepest and darkest tragedies seem clear. It is the symbol and sign, and more than this, it is the (Continued on Page 6)

Miss Kate K. Field Will Sing Monday

Youthful Soprano Will Present Variety of Songs

The Davidson Music Department will present Kate Keith Field, soprano, of New York City, in the second concert of this year’s series, on next Monday night, December 9, at 8:00 o’clock. Miss Field is an outstanding young singer who made a very successful appearance in New York last spring. The program that she will present will show a great variety and will embrace songs from all types of vocal literature. Of special interest to her Davidson audience should be a group of modern songs. Her first number will be Mozart's “Giunse al fin il momento,” from “The Marriage of Figaro.” She will then present a group of selections consisting of: Wolf's “Verborgenheit,” “Wiegenlied” and “Verbebliches Standchen,” and a group from Schubert's works, “Standchen,” “Du bist die Ruh,” and “Ungeduld.” She will then sing the “Song of the Bride,” by Rimsky-Korsakoff. She will offer a group of selections from the works of Rachmaninoff, consisting of “Field Beloved,” “Lilacs,” “To the Children,” and “The Floods of Spring.” Her last group will include: “To Daisies,” by Quilter; “To a Young Gentleman,” by Carpenter; “The Time of Parting,” by Hadley; “American Lullaby,” by Rich; and “Curly Locks,” by Hughes.

ROTC Cadets Are To Give Cash For Rewards

Soldier, can you spare a dime? Cadets were asked at drill last Monday to contribute a dime to buy awards for the best drill units. Scabbard and Blade is trying to raise enough money to present awards to the best units and their members. Loving cups will be obtained for the most efficient company, platoon, and smaller units if possible. These awards should create more interest in the military work and cause keen competition on the drill field. The members of the winning units will be honored by bars or insignia of some type. The giving of awards such as these has been discussed for several years but this is the first time that any definite action has been taken.

THEILING TAKES SHOOTING PRIZE

Cleveland, Second; Purnell, Third; and Pharr, Fourth In Competition

The winners in the ROTC Rifle Competition have just been announced. The first prize, a gold medal, goes to R. H. Theiling, who led the scoring with 372 points. G. B. Cleveland, a very close second, made 371 points and receives a silver medal. The third prize, a bronze medal, is awarded to L. T. Purnell, who scored 358 points. The next best score of 349 points was made by W. S. Pharr.

Announcement concerning this contest was made on September 20th, and it lasted until Thanksgiving. The rifle range was open each night for the convenience of the contestants, and because so many of the members of the last year’s team were lost through graduation, every encouragement was given in order to train new men. Both shoulder to shoulder and correspondence matches have been scheduled against a number of military schools and colleges throughout the United States. Numerals will be awarded to those riflemen who comply with the following rules: he must be a member of the team; he must participate in at least 50% of the meets; he must be one of the highest five scorers on the team for 75% of the season; he must be an upperclassman taking ROTC; and finally, he must not be guilty of carelessness on the range or the destruction of property.

Medals to Be Donated By French Government

Again the French government has awarded to Davidson College medals to be given to the best students of French in the graduating class. Le Cercle Francais has drawn considerable interest from the French consul. Monsieur de Verneuil for its extra-curricular work in the French language. Showing his interest in French instruction in American Colleges and in extra-curricular activities in this field Monsieur de Verneuil has recently been engaged in collecting information and data on the French programmes of his particular district. Davidson is singularly honored in this award in that no other college in North Carolina has ever received this recognition, as far as can be learned. A similar presentation was made to Davidson Col- (Continued on Page 6)

AMENDMENT TO CONSTITUTION GIVEN APPROVAL

New Measure Gives Student Council Right to Remove Noisy Persons

PASSES BY MAJORITY

Vote After Considering Measure for Ten Days

The proposed amendment to the constitution was passed by a two-thirds majority vote of the three upper classes, Monday morning, December 2. Carleton Chapman, president of the student body, re-read the new measure at a meeting last Monday and asked for discussion. After a short discussion, the votes were cast 214 for, and 63 against the new program. The proposed addition has been “lying on the table” for ten days. It was presented on Nov. 21, after having been worked out and unanimously approved by the student council. Chapman stated that no attempt was being made to “railroad” the measure through and criticism would be gratefully accepted.

The new program states that the student council should have the right to remove to other lodging any person whose conduct interferes with proper studying conditions. A representative will be appointed on each hall to receive complaints. It very forcefully says that these men are not “watch-dogs” or “monitors,” but the students are to report to them all charges against the reporting of disturbances. On the first report a committee will investigate, on the second, if justifiable a trial will be held before the student council, which shall determine what will be done to the offender. This new measure is not intended to be unreasonable, but is designed to clear up a situation which seems to be unique at Davidson, and which is undesirable. It is undertaking to better studying conditions in the dormitories by eliminating all unnecessary noises after seven o'clock. This action has been taken because of many complaints concerning noise in the dormitories. This new plan was originated in order to create such conditions in the dormitories as make for better living conditions.

ANNUAL Y XMAS FUND TO GO TO CHAS. W. WORTH

First Christmas Gift For Foreign Missions in Five Years

GIFT IS FOR STUDENTS

Reverend Worth Is Davidson Graduate Class 1920

A Pioneer! A man always pushing forward into a new field for his cause, undaunted by numerous difficulties and barriers; one, who is incensed with a never-dying spirit. Such a man must have unlimited talents, and resources of his own upon which to depend and such a man since 1933 has been a pioneer evangelistic worker in the mountains, one hundred miles west of Hangehow, China. Mr. Charles W. Worth, to whom the Christmas Gift Fund sponsored by the Y. M. C. A. is to go for this year.

The goal set last year was $750.00, while this year's goal as a minimum is $650.00. Rev. Mr. Worth was born in Wusih, Kiangsu Province, China, in 1897. He entered Davidson College in 1915, dropping out for a year in the army after his Junior year, returning to graduate in 1920. For eleven years he has been an active worker in China, with his wife. While at Davidson he was president of his class his Junior year, a member of Omicron Delta Kappa honoraryFraternity, was a member of Kappa Alpha social fraternity. He has a B.D. degree from Davidson and a B.D. degree from the Union Theological Seminary in Richmond, Virginia. The work of Mr. Worth over a wide field in the mountains involves a lot of traveling, often done on foot due to the wildness of the country. Taking with him one or two Chinese coolies to transport the baggage, and probably a Chinese minister too, he has gone into parts where a white man has never been seen and the people are totally ignorant of Christ. Wherever they are able to secure a place, they make their abode for the night. He is the only missionary to several hundred thousand people in a new section and has devoted his life to it in an unparalleled fashion. On December 10th, Mr. Worth will address the Davidson Student Body (Continued on Page 6).

Sophomores Sponsor Annual House Party Next Weekend
Dance Committee Arranges Colorful Program for Friday Night Affair

The Sophomore Class will sponsor the annual “Sophomore Weekend” set of dances to be held in the Charlotte Armory on December 13 and 14, featuring the music of Kay Keever and Jelly Leftwich and his orchestra. There will be three dances in this set: a formal dance Friday night from ten until two, a tea-dance Saturday afternoon from four until six, and an informal dance Saturday night from eight-thirty until twelve. The outstanding individual feature of the entire set will be the formal dance figure on Friday evening. This will be the first figure of this college year, and a very novel formation has been arranged by the committee in charge of the dances. The streamers of royal purple and gold, the class colors, hanging from a huge crystal ball suspended over the center of the dance floor will serve to add color to it. Martin Lafferty, president of the class, will lead the dance with his date, and the other members of the figure will include the remaining eight members of the dance committee, one representative from each of nine fraternities, and four non-fraternity men selected by the committee with their dates. Favors will be presented to the partner of each of these men by the leading couple.

Jelly Leftwich will furnish the music for a set of Davidson dances for the first time in many years. He played for a set of dances here five years ago, but he went north afterwards and this is his first return to Davidson. At present, Jelly and his orchestra are located in the Robert E. Lee Hotel, Winston-Salem, and from there he has played for the Shell program. Last week he alternated with Tommy Dorsey in playing for Carolina’s Fall German dances. Kay Keever has been with this orchestra for the last two years, and her beauty plus her sweet voice should prove attractive to those attending the dances. Pictures of the orchestra, Jelly, and Miss Keever are now on display in the windows of the White Drug Co. Tickets went on sale Monday morning, and they will be sold until Friday afternoon, December 13. Tickets are obtainable from the following members of the dance committee: “Teeny” Lafferty, Jim Dorsett, Yates Faison, “Chubby” King, Bill Crooks, Henry Lyons, Fred Dennis, “Booby” Arrowsmith, and Harry McLaughlin.

Davidson Pre-Med Men To Take Aptitude Test

All students of Davidson College who are planning to enter a medical college for the school term 1936-37 are required to take a medical aptitude test, administered by the Committee of American Medical Colleges, Mr. F. W. Hengeveld, Registrar, announced Saturday. This test will be given only once during the current school year. The time set for the test to be given this year is two o'clock on the afternoon of December 6 in Room 124 of Chambers Building. According to a statement made by the Secretary of Associated Medical Colleges, this test is one of the normal requirements for admission to a medical school. There are now ninety-nine students at Davidson College who are looking forward to medicine as their life’s vocation.

TAOSH TO HOLD DEBATE TRYOUTS

Tryouts Will Be Held Friday In Eumenean Society Hall At 7:30 O'Clock

All freshmen interested in debating will meet at the Eumenean Society Hall Friday night at 7:00 o'clock for tryouts. Each speaker is to have the floor for five minutes and to discuss the same topic used by the varsity, which is as follows: “Resolved that Congress should be permitted by a two-thirds majority vote to override decisions of the Supreme Court.” Either the affirmative or the negative side of the question may be taken. The speeches may be discussed with other members of the student body, but must be original with the speaker. There will be six men chosen, divided into two teams with two alternates. The yearlings will have a better chance to show their ability this year as there will be two debates on, and two off the campus. Speakers are urged to put special emphasis on delivery as fifty-five percent in the final judging is based on the argument. The other forty-five percent is judged on delivery. The following freshmen are expected to try out Friday night: O. V. Armstrong, Joe Calvin, Preston Lincoln, Gene Lipfert, Kenneth McLean, John Mawhinney, Dave Newbold, Sherrod Rice, Allen Steele, R. A. Torrey, I. I. Walker, Sam Webb, and Sam Woodard.

Symphonic Band Plays On Weekly Broadcast

The Davidson Symphonic Band was featured on the Davidson program over WBT, Charlotte, Friday night at ten o'clock, and piano solos and voice were presented by Kenneth Scott and Donald Pfohl respectively. Grier Martin, alumni secretary, announced, and gave “News of the Week,” now a regular feature of the program. Following the initial number, “O Davidson,” the march “Men of Ohio” was played. The band then entered into the realm of classical literature by playing “Largo” by Handel. Kenneth Scott played Chopin's “Etude in E Major” on the piano. The next number was Arthur Pryor’s caprice, “The Whistler and His Dog,” in which the band whistled, and Sam Newell imitated the bark of a dog. Donald Pfohl sang two solos, “Sittin’ Thinkin’,” and “Prayer of a Norwegian” (Continued on Page 6).

PITTMAN FINISHES FOOTBALL CAREER IN THRILLING GAME

Crowd of Eight Thousand Watch Teams Fight for Fourth Place in Big Five

PASSES AID VICTORY

Lafferty Scores Initial Touchdown For Wildcats

Paul Pittman, Wildcat triple threat back, polished off a brilliant college football career in a final blaze of glory as he led the Wildcats to a 14-7 win over the Wake Forest Deacons in their annual Thanksgiving day skirmish. A crowd estimated at 8,000 sat shivering as they watched the Wildcats and the Deacons battle for fourth place in the Big Five. The Wildcats, playing steady ball, managed to score about midway through the first period after a sustained 64-yard march from deep in their own territory. Then the 'Cats slackened up just enough in the second period for the Deacons to put one over on them and tie the score at 7-7. In the third period, however, the Wildcats came back strong to march 62 yards down the field for their second touchdown with Pittman carrying the ball over the double lines. Pittman kicked the extra point. All afternoon, the fans witnessed a duel between Pittman and Witehin, of the 'Cats and Deacons respectively, with “Playful Paul” Pittman taking off most of the honors. Pittman was outpunted by Witehin in average by about two yards, but in the passing department he had a far better average in completed passes and also averaged more yardage per run than did the Demon Deacon ace. The game was featured by a hot fight by both teams to stay out of the Big Five cellar. The Davidson win marked the fourth consecutive win over the Deacons. The arrival of Doc Newton and Gene McEver in 1932 brought about the breaking of the jinx that the Demon Deacons had apparently cast over the 'Cats. Not since the Newton-McEver regime began, have the Deacs won a game against the 'Cats. The opening whistle found Wake Forest ready to go and playing better at first than they did at any other part of the game with the exception possibly of the second quarter. The Deacs reeled off (Continued on Page 6).

Yow! To Be Chuck Full Of Xmas Fun

Many Humorists Show Talent in Yuletide Issue

Well folks, that funny, funny, funny magazine they call The Yowl will be out soon, just packed with Christmas fun and good cheer. This time when Santa’s plexus “shakes like a bowl full of jelly” we’ll know the reason why. You can’t help it with a Yowl. It’s not a bad idea to give your mother-in-law a Yowl, by the way. She'll die laughing. Yes, it’s a Yuletide issue, and the cover, by Tredway Purnell, will add to the atmosphere. Hal Overton, Sam Ryburn, and Dick Vowles will contribute some attempts at humor in the line of cartoons. There’s going to be a “riot,” too, which will reveal the interesting description of some of our campus leaders. That supersleuth, Harold Sugg, is at it again, too. He's writing about “Depression.” Dick Vowles will handle the music end again, and Bob Johnston, the sports. Purnell, Lochinvar II, will contribute some more of those love lyrics. Well, folks, I know you just can’t wait. We hope each and every one of you will find a copy of The Yowl in your Christmas sock. You’ll sho’ get a kick out of it!