THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 23, 1935

Dr. Harding Speaks At Church Vesper Service

Speaker Is Pastor of the Second Presbyterian Church in Charlotte

THEME IS FAITH IN GOD

"Let us be able to say, 'I am ready now,'" quoted Dr. J. Hardy, pastor of the Second Presbyterian Church
of Charlotte, speaker at the Vesper Church services last Sunday evening. "Faith in God will support and save man. Satan
strikes man at his strongest point and at an unguarded moment. Only faith in God can save us, and this
faith is eternal," continued the speaker. "Our life can be compared with the life of Simon Peter, and his fall.
Satan wants us in the same way that he desired Peter. Are we going to waver as he did?

"The Master warns and the man boasts; the man falls, and the Master lives. This is our everyday life. Man
is given a chance to hear the call and word of God. If he is a weakling, Satan carries him
off. Only the strong can escape him.

"God puts a value on every man and woman. Each one of us is worthy of the death of God’s
own son. Do not follow the crowd; have individualism. 'Sin abounds in life, but grace should more abound.'

"God will forget our failures and grant us a chance to start anew. It takes courage to reach the top
again after once we have fallen. Let us have that courage, climb back to the top once more, and follow
Christ even unto death.

"The Bible is a record of the lives of all types of humanity. It portrays sweetnesses and its hardships. The
Gospel is 'like fresh water hard to hold,' but we should strive to grasp its meaning and benefit by its
teachings.

"If we live perfectly we do not need a law, but we do not live perfectly. God tells us what
is right; He is always behind us with His support. Take this law, love, support, and be able to say,
'Life, I am ready now.'"

Dr. T. W. Lingle introduced the speaker for the evening, and the male chorus added to the service with several
selections.

Week-end Visitors Are Entertained By YMCA Sunday Night

Photo Work For Annual Done Here Last Week

Last week the photographer for the yearbook, Quips and Cranks, was here from Monday through noon Saturday, at which time
he took about five hundred individual pictures, getting practically all the seniors’ pictures, and the majority of underclassmen’s. Group pictures
of the varsity and freshmen football teams were taken, and individual pictures of the former. All of the proofs of
these pictures are expected to be back the latter part of this week. The photographer will return sometime before Christmas
in order to make group pictures of the fraternities, the Pan-Hellenic Council, and other honorary fraternities. At this time he
will take the individual pictures missed on his first trip. Members of the annual staff said that the system of
paying in advance for pictures in the yearbook has proved most satisfactory.

Sigma Upsilon Bids Ten Davidson Men

Honorary Literary Group To Initiate Neophytes Next Monday

Ten Davidson students were pledged by Sigma Upsilon, national honorary literary fraternity, last week. These men will be initiated at
the regular bi-monthly meeting of the fraternity Monday night. The neophytes are: Seniors - Joe Dees, Arthur Haake, J. M.
Walker; Juniors - Howell Overton, Harold Sugg, A. T. Port, R. R. Purdy, and Gib Smith; Sophomores - A. L.
Cates and C. A. McKnight. A regular meeting was held at the Kappa Sigma house last Monday night, and the
new men were entertained with a feed. Faculty members present were Dr. W. P. Cumming, Prof. J. M. Erwin, and
Prof. H. T. Lilly. Student members of the honorary fraternity are Carleton Chapman, D. Allen, J. Donigian, J. M. Newton,
Kenneth Scott, Bob Lindsay, and I. B. Ross.

The remodeled Y. M. C. A. social center now offers accommodation, entertainment, and refreshment for those visitors on the campus
during the weekends of football games. This remodeling was done by the action of the Y. M. C. A. cabinet.
The social center has been remodeled and redecorated, and is now available to any man seeking a comfortable place for
resting and meeting friends before football games. New comfortable furniture has been installed and the color scheme is brown and
white. A radio, punchbowl, coal fire, and charming hostesses add greatly to the enjoyment and comfort of the guests. Last
weekend approximately forty guests were entertained. Miss Susan Moffet and Mrs. Albert McClure served as hostesses. Refreshments, consisting of punch
and cakes, were served. The Center is a service which there has long been a need for at Davidson, and
it is another item added to the long list of "Y" accomplishments. Every Davidson man is cordially invited to take
advantage of this opportunity.

O—N FOR COLDS

Formula on Label. Money Back Guarantee at Your Druggist

Good Food Pleasant Company

DAVIDSON HOTEL

One Trial Will Convince

Lighting Fixtures Electrical Appliances Radios

M. H. GOODRUM & CO.

Literary Societies Meet Second Time

Members Present Variety Speeches and Stories

The Eumenean and Philanthropic Literary Societies held their second meetings of the year on October 15. The Eumenean Society had
a feed and a program of two papers read by members. "The Prisoner" was the title of the paper written
and read by Fitz Dade. It deals with a little-known episode in the life of that ruthless but shrewd conqueror,
Genghis Khan. "The Young Temudjin," captured by a band of raiders from Samarcand, escaped and fled to an oasis. Here
he barely escaped from his pursuers and from the death which they would have dealt. The paper shows how the
destiny of nations hangs by such a thin thread of chance. "The Modern Alchemist" was the title of the paper
read and written by John D. Allen. This was an imaginative and humorous satire upon the chemical laboratory. It told
of a trip to the Martin Chemical Laboratory and amusing experiences there. The students tried to make experiments come out
correctly but always something prevented this. Allen describes very humorously the terrible odors, the deadly poisons, and other imaginary horrors
which occurred in the various rooms. On the program for the next meeting are Bill Rader and Johnny Mosely. This
meeting will be held Tuesday, October 29.

The Philanthropic Society was entertained by talks from Gordon Smith and Richard Lindsey. Smith's talk was on "War Against Propaganda
in Schools." He told of Dr. Miller of Columbia University and how a society is forming to prevent propaganda in
our schools. He plans to stop it by regulation of the means of distribution and by the elevation of the
public mind. Lindsey’s talk was upon the subject, "Secretary Hull’s View on America’s Neutrality." He brought out the fact that
America should stay out of a war but emphasized that we should not appear frightened. He said that if we
show fear it will be as with a frightened boy walking by.

GREEKS

BETA THETA PI—had alumni guests over the weekend. They were Billy Atwater, Oscar Bethea, Tommy Miller, Johnny Smith, Billy Brewer,
and some brothers from Carolina. Usual feed, Sunday night.

PI KAPPA ALPHA—Had guests during the weekend Bill and Lawrence Kirkland of Durham, and Zeb Taylor and Ed French from
Statesville. W. Dickson was toastmaster at a Halloween party given at Queens-Chicora College last week.

KAPPA ALPHA—Had a feed Sunday night. Their guests for the weekend were Scotty McLeod of Spruce Pines, Bill Waltzer, and
Herbert Wright.

SIGMA ALPHA EPSILON—L. Brown attended the Inter-collegiate Press Association convention last week which was held in Chicago. Jack Kay and
Scott Shepherd, brothers from Carolina, were visitors here over the weekend. A feed was given Sunday night.

KAPPA SIGMA—Had for guests during the weekend eight alumni, and some brothers from the Kappa Sigma chapter at Carolina. From
Carolina were: Gray, Frank and John Unstead, Ben Webb, Larry Blackwelder, and Bill Fortune. Thursday night, Bob Wyatt and McLaurin
were initiated into the fraternity. Warren Gaw was elected president of the pledges. A new radio has been installed in
the chapter house.

PI KAPPA PHI—Members and guests were entertained Saturday night by Freshman pledges. Guests were: E. Pullen, Jr., of Winston-Salem, Joe
Kelley of Salisbury, Squire Seymour of Sandford, Nell Martin of Charlotte, H. M. Christenburg of Charlotte, H. R. Eley of
Norfolk, Va., Fordie Jones of Batesbury, S. C., and W. H. Nortield.

PHI GAMMA DELTA—Was host to a number of brothers from Carolina over the weekend. Other guests were Miss Esther Hamlin
of Salisbury and Wilhelmina Monroe of Gettysburg, Pa. Alfred Stair of Knoxville, Tennessee, was pledged by the Delta Kappa chapter
last Thursday night.

PHI DELTA THETA—Had the following guests from Carolina over the weekend: Robert Baker, Sam Ur, and Al Miller, and Miss
Mary Baker of Saint Mary’s. B. C. Barnes, a member of the class of '35, who left Davidson year before
last to attend Medical School at Carolina, was among the guests. They were served supper Saturday night, and the weekly
Sunday night feed was given.

SIGMA PHI EPSILON—Was visited by a number of brothers from Carolina over the weekend. Charles Gold, '34, was also here.
J. A. Somerville was initiated into the fraternity, October 10. Plans have been made to celebrate the founding of the
fraternity on November 3rd.

Le Cercle Francais To Produce French Plays

Le Cercle Francais has announced a busy schedule planned for this fall. Joint meetings are...being arranged for, early in November.
One of these meetings is to be with Winthrop College, which will be held at Davidson, and another is scheduled
with Converse, to be held at Spartanburg. The Davidson club has started to work on two French plays to be
presented at these meetings. One of these plays is La Lettre by Labiche. The club is also working to bring
a French film production to the college. If obtained, it will probably be one of two that are playing in
New York and are being received with much enthusiasm there. The officials of the club are working at the present
time.

The remainder of the meeting was taken up by business. The type of program and the time for feeds were
discussed.

Davidson Band Gives Concert Directed by Conductor of University of Illinois Band

On Friday, the Davidson band played at the annual state music teachers’ convention at Greensboro under the direction of Mr.
A. A. Harding of the University of Illinois. While there, a short concert was given at the Women's College of
the University of North Carolina. The purpose of the fall gathering was the selection by the teachers of the numbers
to be used in the North Carolina high school music contests which take place in the spring. The band played
each one of the numbers under consideration, so that the teachers might choose more easily. This was no small task,
since quite a few of the numbers were unfamiliar, but it is a distinct honor to Davidson that our band
was chosen. Besides this rather strenuous program, a thirty-minute concert was played for the student body of W.C.U.N.C. The thirty-eight
men making the trip also took both meals while in Greensboro at the college dining hall. Mr. A. A. Harding
directed the band on both of these occasions. The band of the University of Illinois, composed of one hundred and
fifty pieces, is the largest in the United States. This eminent authority was quite pleased with the Davidson band and
commented on the good work it is doing. Mr. Harding also directed one of the numbers played during the North
Carolina game on Saturday.

President Elected By Pi Delta Alpha Honorary Medical Group Plans Constructive Program

Gordon Smith was elected president of Pi Delta Alpha, honorary medical fraternity, at the first meeting on Wednesday, Oct. 9.
Harvey McConnell was chosen as vice-president, and Bill Wartman as secretary and treasurer, at the initial meeting of the medical
group. The next meeting was held on Wednesday, Oct. 16, and every member took part in the program. Hervey Ross
spoke on left-handedness, Harvey McConnell spoke on bones, Joe Johnston gave a talk on new types of chemical medicine that
relieves cross-eyedness, Bill Wartman spoke on Pasteur, Gordon Smith on cancer, and Red Shaw spoke on pituitary glands. Dr. Lyons
spoke on plant growth in the Arctic. Dr. Lyons and Dr. McConnell are honorary members. Plans for the further interest
of the school of medicine were made. There are to be three meetings a year to try to better the
pre-medical department. An open meeting for the entire student body was planned. Dr. Todd from Charlotte will give an illustrative
lecture. He is one of the most gifted men of the South in his field. This meeting is to be
held between now and Thanksgiving.

Five College Students Attend Peace Meetings

Harvey Glass, Bill Keiswetter, John McMullen, John Walker, and Paul Harlan went as representatives of the Davidson Y.M.C.A. to the
North Carolina convention of the Southern Peace Action Movement on Saturday and Sunday, October 19-20. The meeting was held at
Duke University in Durham. The Movement is composed of Y's from colleges and universities in seven southern states: North Carolina,
South Carolina, Mississippi, Tennessee, Alabama, Georgia, and Kentucky. Each state holds its own state convention. At Duke, there were 130
representatives from schools in this state. The members of the Davidson Y went to the meeting merely as onlookers. Their
purpose was to consider the Movement and to bring back a report to the Y cabinet here as to the
desirability of joining in with it. A special meeting was held Tuesday, October 22 for the initiation of new men.
No action has been taken by the Y Cabinet as yet.

HUNDREDS OF SATISFIED CUSTOMERS

Special Tuesdays and Fridays
15c-HOT WAFFLES-15c

College Physician Attends Meetings McConnell Presents Paper Before Atlanta Group

Dr. McConnell, college physician, attended two medical conferences this summer and, with his family, was a guest on an extended
cruise up the Atlantic Coast. He went to the Student Health Conference in Atlanta, where he read a timely paper
entitled “Cardiac Conditions.” The membership of this organization is drawn entirely from the college and university physicians of the South.
Then in July, Dr. McConnell, who is the local representative of the Surgeons’ Association of the Southern Railway System, was
present at the meeting of the Association in Memphis. The following month, as the guest of the North Carolina Bar
Association, Dr. McConnell, with his family, cruised up the peninsula of Nova Scotia, in the company of several members of
the Association.

Pika and Phi Delt Teams Gain Finals

(Continued from Page 4)

Lawrence Reid starred for the Phi Gams. In the closing game of the inter-class schedule, the Sophomores trampled the Freshmen,
12-0. Playing for a majority of the game with only six players, the second-year men scored their first two touchdowns
in two years. The score came on passes to Cline and Gilks, who caught them over the goal. The Sophomores
were Cline, Gilks, E. J. Ganier, G. B. Ganier, Bill Keiswetter, Buddy Rainey, and Willard Day, while Buddy Young, Sherrard
Rice, and Bill Marquess worked best for the Freshmen.

Seniors Win In Class Football

(Continued from Page 4)

The Seniors and Juniors scored two touchdowns against the Freshmen, which composed their total score. The Freshmen have yet to
score a point. Inter-class athletic standings to date are as follows: Seniors—20 points, Juniors—15 points, Sophomores—10 points, Freshmen—5 points. Other
points which will count in deciding the winner of the trophy given to the class which has made the highest
number of points in inter-class competition are: Basketball, Volleyball, Track, Soccer, Physical Improvement, Gymnastics, Boxing, Golf, Tennis, Baseball, and Sigma
Delta Psi. Last year this trophy was won by the Junior class.

MONEY NO OBJECT IF IT’S A QUESTION OF HEALTH

Since 1917, thousands of people have regained their normal health after years of suffering from stomach troubles of all types,
such as constipation, indigestion, gas, and sour stomach, which are the basic factors of such maladies as high blood pressure,
rheumatism, periodic headaches, pimples on face and body, pains in the back, liver, kidney and bladder disorder, exhaustion, loss of
sleep and appetite. Those sufferers have not used any man-made injurious chemicals or drugs of any kind; they have only
used a remedy made by Nature. This marvelous product grows on the highest mountain peaks, where it absorbs all the
healing elements from the sun to aid humanity in distress. It is composed of 19 kinds of natural leaves, seeds,
berries, and flowers scientifically and proportionately mixed and is known as LION CROSS HERB TEA. LION CROSS HERB TEA tastes
delicious, acts wonderfully upon your system, and is safe even for children. Prepare it fresh like any ordinary tea and
drink a glassful once a day, hot or cold. A one dollar treatment accomplishes wonders; makes you look and feel
like new born. If you are not as yet familiar with the beneficial effects of this natural remedy, try it
at once and convince yourself. If not satisfactory, money refunded to you. In order to avoid mistakes in getting the
genuine LION CROSS HERB TEA, please fill out the attached coupon.

Lio-Pharmacy, 1180 Second Ave., N.Y. City, N.Y.
Gentlemen: Enclosed find $................... for which please send me.. treatments of the famous LION CROSS HERB TEA.
NAME .......................
ADDRESS ...................
Dept. .......................
