*THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 23, 1935*

Carl Carlson.

HONOR ROLL

Abell and McClelland picked as Frosh stars by Sports Afield

HONOR ROLL

Pittman and Lee chosen as Varsity stars by J. B. Johnston, Jr.

BY HARRY KUYKENDALL

“We rated are a thousand ball team. If Davidson had only had the breaks, they would have won,” Carl Snavely
is quoted as saying after the contest with one of the major contenders for “Rose Bowl” honors. Snavely argued that
the ‘Cats exceeded in almost every phase of the game and stated that Carolina had “nice boys, but no football
players.” Max Reed, Snavely’s assistant, added, “Maybe they should send Davidson to the Rose Bowl. We certainly aren’t going.” Possibly
Snavely expressed himself with a little exaggeration here, but even so, it was evident that he was very much disappointed
in the showing that the Heels made.

By now, all who were dubious over the 1935 edition of Davidson's football team have learned to sit up and
take notice. The “thin red line” is a fighting machine. Have patience; it’ll bring home the bacon yet.

Among the many outstanding stars, there was one lad who tackled frequently and with bullet-like precision. Playing as a sub
for Windham, John Lee played the greatest game of his career and occasioned favorable comment on all sides. Three other
Barium Biseed boys played distinctive parts in the contest: Pittman, Freeman, and Jim Johnston. Freeman, who has at last found
his way back to Tackle after playing at almost every position in the line, nailed Jackson frequently as the latter
was almost away. Jim, while very light, has a reputation (as Flake Laird says) for “getting in the way” more
than any other member of the squad, while Newton stated several days ago that “he knows as much football” as
any man on the squad or just as much as any Barium boy (which is saying a lot).

“Pittman’s your all-Southern boy,” was the comment of Coach Tatum Gressette of the Citadel, while Don Jackson added, “this Pittman
in the backfield looked darn good. Cathey, tackle, was nice.” “Little” Crowell Little, when congratulated on his game for UNC,
laughingly said, “Remember that guy who was about to run for a touchdown? ... and I turned around and he
fell over me.” Just the particular way in which he said it indicated that only the fact that he turned
around at that particular moment kept “Pitt” from getting a score. Pittman’s punting, by the way, is the best left
your a seen on Richardson field recently, although Wade Barrow asserts that the State Frosh punter here Friday runs a
mean second.

We still believe Carolina will be the outstanding threat in the South this year. Dick Buck had nothing to say
about the game, but another member of the squad said that the Heels played the sorriest ever. “Fumbled from the
start and couldn’t get rid of it.” This last quotation reminds us of the statement Coach Laird is reported to
have made during the half of the Frosh game Thursday: “The worst exhibition of football I’ve ever seen.”

Coach Tatum Gressette of the Citadel, in a little chat with Coach “Doc” Newton, spoke his opinion and heaped praises
all over the 'Cats, which is one way of making the 'Cats a little cocky over the Citadel contest and
thus giving the Bulldogs a better chance to win. Grier Martin has warned that the Charleston team will be gunning
for Davidson after their let-down.

(Continued on Page 5)

CATS TO MEET CITADEL CADETS HERE SATURDAY

Bulldogs Whitewashed By Gamecocks at South Carolina State Fair

McCREADIE CADET STAR

Coach Tatum Gressette Scouts Game With Carolina

The Bulldogs at the Citadel, though polishing off South Carolina Gamecocks to the tune of a 25-0 whitewashing at the
Orangeburg State fair, were trounced by the Wildcats here October the twelfth by the score of 13-6. After the game,
Coach Tatum Gressette wasn’t at all backward in saying, “We were beaten by a heavier team, a little too big
for us.”

Coach Gressette sat in the stands Saturday here while the Wildcats were putting on an excellent exhibition of football. He
came here early Saturday with his assistant coach, and both sat in the press box covering the plays just as
fast as they were run off. In an interview after the game, Coach Newton and Tatum Gressette were talking casually
about the game, and Coach Gressette remarked to Coach Newton, “When I give the signal, Doc, raise your hand and
stop the slaughter.”

By all outward appearances, the Cadet either has very little faith in himself and his boys or else (the more
likely) is merely trying to pull the wool over somebody’s eyes.

The Cadets were given a rest after their slashing defeat by the Birds Thursday and were put through a stiff
workout on pass defense on Saturday. The Cadets worked still on pass defense on Monday, in an effort to polish
up that department and also give a few on the injured list an opportunity to recover in time to get
into the game with the Wildcats here Saturday.

McCreadie, flashy Bulldog halfback, will be the man who bears all the watching here Saturday. He has two very able
cohorts in the backfield with him in Andy Hall and Ferguson.

Teams Gain Finals

The Phi Delts and Pikas entered the final round of the current inter-fraternity touch football by eking out close decisions
over the Betas and Phi Gams respectively. During the course of the week, the intra-mural season was closed with the
Sophomores pushing two scores across to beat the Freshmen, 12-0.

The Phi Delts, held scoreless in the first half by a stubborn defense thrown up by the fighting Betas, came
back after intermission to tally and defend their lead until the end. In the second half, with all eyes watching
the Phi Delt’s John Partridge, Carlyle Lewis faded back, faked a pass to Partridge, and then tossed one to Bill
Boyd for the one and only score of the game. With George Tipton performing the passing and punting duties, the
Betas fought the Phi Delts until the closing whistle, but their efforts to score proved to be in vain, with
the final score being: Phi Delts—6; Betas—0.

Starring for the losers were Bill Hobbs, John Irwin, and Bill Coffin, while outstanding for the Phi Delts were Partridge,
Lewis, Boyd, Buddy Rainey, and Jim Cothran.

In the other semi-final tussle, the Pikas eked out an extra-period win over the Phi Gams by the narrow margin
of 2-0. With Ken Knorr tossing passes far and wide, the Pikas threatened throughout the game but were unable to
score. The regular game resulted in a scoreless tie, so the teams were forced to play an extra period. In
this period, with the time running out fast, the Phi Gams finally got the ball just in front of their
goal-line, and Bill Kiesewetter faded back to pass from behind his goal-line. The pass from center was bad, and before
Kiesewetter could pass, Bill Archer tagged him in the end zone for a safety and the game’s only score.

Ken Knorr, Bill Archer, “Sky” Cline, Sam Milton, and Walter Dickson shone for the winners, while Kiesewetter, Ganier, and others
stood out for the Phi Gams.

CATS PREPARE FOR BULLDOGS

Pictured above are Dick Johnson and Hunter McClung (standing) while Paul Pittman and “Big Six” Johnston are working out on
the ground.

Powerful State Freshmen Annihilate Fighting Kittens

(Continued on Page 5)

Coach Laird’s Men Are Challenged By B Team

The All-American football team, coached by “Doc” Unger, issued a formal challenge to the Freshman team last Monday afternoon, confirming
a verbal challenge previously made. The challenge, read by Coach Flake Laird to his Red Caps, said, in part: “We,
the Davidson College ‘B’”Team, better known as the All-Americans, do hereby issue a challenge to the Davidson College Freshman team
for a football game to be played at the nearest convenient date on Richardson Field, Davidson, N.C.” Signed, “Coach Unger’s
Pros.”

Both teams are in good shape for the proposed conflict, and both are confident of victory. The “B” team intends
to specialize in lateral passes and the famous Unger Spread Play. The only opinion released for publication is that of
Coach “Tubby” Hand, who is reported as having said, “The All-Americans will win in a breeze.”

GLAD FOOTBALL
Six-Game Contest Ends With Champions Undefeated and Unscored On

The annual inter-class football contest was completed last Thursday, October 17, with the Seniors emerging as undefeated and unscored-on champions
and the Juniors, Sophomores, and Freshmen following in the order given. Each class played the other three classes once, making
a total of six games. The final score of each of the Seniors' three games was 6-0. The Juniors, who
met their only defeat at the hands of the Seniors, won their other two games by scores of 12-0. Since
the Sophomores did not succeed in making (Continued on Page 5)

Heavy Raleigh Team Amasses Ten Touchdowns and Five Extra Points

Before the relentless attack of N.C. State’s Wildkittens, Davidson's Frosh were swamped 65-0 on Richardson Field last Thursday. Scoring in
every quarter, the Green and Black team amassed their total from ten touchdowns and five extra points. Stair and Harrison
led the crimson line into State territory best during the first and third periods. The last quarter witnessed a collapse
of Davidson defense as State gained five touchdowns. Yost, Sands, Pavalosky, Muhcek, and others were outstanding in State's backfield. The
line was changed completely in the game as substitutions were made. Davidson's line remained much the same throughout the game.
Abell’s centering was accurate, and Miller, Ellis, and Gastiger played a fine game at guard.

In the first quarter, the Wildkittens drove to State’s twenty-yard line with Hand running fifteen yards before a fumble lost
the ball to the State team. Rudisel kicked well for the Frosh, and Johnson, Ellis, Iverson, and McClelland kicked and
tackled where they could. In the first quarter, Stair and Mooney connected on two passes that brought the Red and
Black team down the field. Mooney ran yards at the last, but the ball was lost on downs at the
twenty-yard line after several passes were tried. The result of the game was worse than last year’s 46-0 score, but
in both games, the Wildkittens have been out-weighed. The yearlings are not cunning as well as they did in their
final game in 1934. The statistics of the game were overwhelming in State’s favor. In first downs, gained rushing and
passing, and in punting average, they outdistanced the Wildkittens. Both teams tried a great many passes, the majority of which
were successful. Penalties were particularly heavy against the invading school. Fumbles made for a good many changes of possession of
the ball.

Snappier and Snappier

As the season advances, and the itch to go places and get active gathers momentum, many a Davidsonian’s fancy lightly
turns to thoughts of the dinner-dances at Hotel Charlotte. Quite right, what? For in that hotel’s Main Dining Room, the
dinner that’s served at a dollar would, all by itself, brighten anybody’s day. Then there’s the dancing—and there’s no cover
charge or other extras, you know—which makes the attraction of the place to a restless Davidsonian practically irresistible. Proof? Well,
just come in evenings, and look around! The food’s right.

MATCHES REACH CLOSING ROUNDS
Johnson, Lawson, Sloan, and White Enter Semi-Finals of Freshman Tournament

The field of the Freshman fall tennis tournament, which numbered twenty at its start last week, had been narrowed to
the semi-final round at the end of Monday’s play. One of the semi-final matches, between Perry Sloan and Locke White,
had to have its conclusion postponed until Tuesday, as darkness intervened with the score at two sets all and three
games all in the deciding fifth set; while the other finals bracket remained to be filled by the winner of
Ken Lawson and Grant Johnson, whose match was also slated for Tuesday. These four men appeared to be the class
of a small field which contained few likely-looking players. Sloan, a Durham high school product, appears to have the best
strokes and smoothest game of the four, but White, a West Virginia boy, seemed to be playing him to a
standstill when their match was interrupted. It looked, also, as if Lawson, a former Staunton Military Academy player, would strike
a tartar in Johnson, whose unorthodox, but steady two-handed game stamps him as a probable finalist.

Results of matches up to, and including, the quarter-final round are as follows:
First Round: Johnson defeated Ed Cloyd, 2-6, 6-1, 9-7; Lawson defeated Jack Graves, 6-0, 6-0; Sloan defeated Pete Marchant, 6-0,
6-5; and S. Robinson defeated Joe Craver, 6-2, 6-1. All other players drew byes.
Second Round: Raymond Pittman defeated (Continued on page 6)

Sigma Delta Psi Holds Tryouts For Entrants

Considerable interest has been shown in Sigma Delta Psi, national honorary fraternity, this fall. Although there were no men who
completed their requirements, several lack very little of doing so. W. J. Fraley of the Senior class needs only to
pass the rope climbing and swimming tests before becoming a member of this organization, and J. W. Hickman, Freshman, lacks
nothing but the baseball throw and swim. F. E. Parker has passed all but three, and C. W. Sample all
but four requirements. There were forty-eight entrants this year, the majority of whom passed most of their tests. Another chance
to complete these requirements will be given in the spring.

AT THE College Pharmacy

FIGHTING WILDCAT TEAM HOLDS CAROLINA ELEVEN IN HARD-FOUGHT BATTLE

Pittman Races Fifty-Five Yards After Receiving Lateral From Verble
CAROLINA SCORES TWICE
Pittman, Lafferty, Lee, and Cathey Star For ’Cats

Davidson's fighting Wildcats held the powerful Tar Heels from the University of North Carolina to two touchdowns Saturday afternoon on
Richardson Field. Montgomery took the ball over both times and Daniels converted both points to make Carolina’s 14-0 victory. Don
Jackson, Carolina’s All-American bid, found the going very rough all afternoon, but occasionally gave the crowd glimpses of the ability
that has gained him widespread recognition. However, Paul Pittman, Davidson back, gave such an exhibition as to be labeled “the
outstanding man on the field.” Paul, burdened with the duties of passing, punting, and most of the running, thrilled the
crowd of 7,500 time after time, and he climaxed a brilliant exhibition with a twisting run of fifty-five yards. On
this play, Pittman seemed to be away, but the interference was unable to block the last two men and he
was tackled on Carolina’s 26-yard line. For the ‘Cats, Dick Johnson played his usual good game at guard, Paul Pittman
ran, passed, and kicked his way to glory, and John Lee, “Teeny” Lafferty, and Wood Burns contributed to the splendid
account the Wildcats gave of themselves. Harry Montgomery, “Hump” Snyder, Van Webb, and “Babe” Daniels led the smashing Carolina offensive.
A summary by quarters follows:

FIRST QUARTER
After an exchange of several punts, Carolina took the ball from the middle of the field to Davidson’s 11-yard stripe.
Pitt carrying the ball, McClung recovered a fumble to stop the threat, but Carolina again ploughed nearly to Davidson’s goal
later in the quarter.

SECOND QUARTER
“Woody” Burns intercepted a Carolina pass on Davidson's 3-yard line. The Red and Black kicked to their own 35-yard marker,
but Jackson and Montgomery crashed down the field to get North Carolina’s first touchdown. Daniels’ try for (Continued from Page
3)

The Dobbs Junior For College Men
Fashioned with the same style and workmanship as the Dobbs Men's Hats, designed especially for young men. $3.50
Tate-Brown Co.
College Shop: Third Floor
