THE DAVIDSONIAN » JANUARY 9, 1935

DAVIDSON WINS THRILLER OVER WOFFORD FIVE

In the Field of Sports

PRITCHETT MAKES INITIAL CALL TO CAT CINDER TEAM

by MAIORT BROWN

Coach “Red” Laird’s 1935 edition of Wildcat basketeers so far has shown considerable improvement over the outfit of a year
ago, which fact, I think, is due very largely to the unusual situation of competition that has arisen between the
several lettermen returned from the 1934 quintet and a group of highly promising Sophomores trying out for the first time
among the varsity ranks. Witnessing the Wildcats against the Wofford Terriers last Thursday night, they seemed to have much more
life and pep than was ever displayed last season. Every man was in there and scrapping not simply for that
particular game but for his position in the Davidson lineup.

It looks like a new deal for Davidson in the cage this winter, with five lettermen on the roster being
pushed consistently by an equal number of snappy-looking second-year men. Jim Morgan and Charlie Hood have managed to hold down
their positions fairly well, but such contenders as Maurice Peabody, Clifford Quick, and Kenneth Knorr are giving Courtney Ross, Hugh
Yelverton, and Coley Windham plenty of stiff opposition.

A NEW GYM

While jabbering about the basketball situation, it might be well to mention the need for a more adequate gymnasium at
Davidson. The present structure used for basketball is so inadequate that the athletic officials are forced to schedule games with
such formidable foes as Carolina and Duke in towns where more room can be secured to accommodate the spectators. Consequently,
the Davidson students who pay a fee for the best program available in all sports are forced to content themselves
with competition of an inferior type. This year the contest with Duke was played in Winston-Salem, and the Carolina game
was taken to Charlotte, simply because the Davidson gym has no space for outsiders after the students have all gotten
their seats within it. Such a situation not only causes the students to be deprived of the best basketball entertainment,
but it also keeps basketball from being a self-supporting sport, and since there is only one court accessible to six
hundred students, the authorities have quite a problem when they attempt to use it for varsity and freshman practice and
games in addition to having it available for intramural games. There is certainly no doubt about a need for a
larger gymnasium on the Davidson campus, but it takes money to build one, and since none of that is handy,
I believe it will take an equal amount of patience to get new quarters for the Wildcats.

NEWTON AND McEVER

It has been rumored around the campus for some time that Coach Gene McEver had received an offer to be
an assistant coach at the University of Tennessee, and now a great deal of talk is being heard regarding an
invitation that Coach Newton got to take over the position as the University of South Carolina tutor. These men, of
course, are not bound ironclad to the Davidson staff, but it isn’t likely that they will give up their position
at the Presbyterian institution unless an extremely more profitable offer presents itself.

EARLY TRACK

Captain Pritchett and Coach Pete Whittle have called for both varsity and freshmen track candidates to report and begin training
for the spring season. The coaches are going to need to develop a lot of excellent track material between now
and the opening of the regular season in order to fill tremendously large gaps that opened up with the graduation
of several stars and the failure of several others to return to school. If there is any talent on hand,
you can depend upon Coaches Pritchett and Whittle to discover it and develop it.

LITTLE SLEEP ON THE MORNINGS THAT YOU HAVE NO EXAMS AND WE WILL HAVE BREAKFAST READY FOR YOU ANYTIME

Fort Leads Davidson Wrestlers To 17-9 Victory Over Y. M. C. A. Team

NEXT MEET SATURDAY

To Encounter Spray Matmen Here On Jan. 12

In a meet here before the holidays, the Davidson grapplers defeated the High Point Y. M. C. A. team 17
to 9. Led by Captain Fort, who took the only fall, pinning his man in 4:20, the Wildcats had little
trouble in downing the Pointers. Summary: 118 pounds, Parks, High Point, over Moffett, 7:45 minutes time advantage; 126 pounds, Dillon,
Davidson, over Copeland, 6:44 time advantage; 135 pounds, Nolan, High Point, over Thompson, 8:26 time advantage; 145 pounds, Owen, Davidson,
over A. Lea, 2:35 time advantage; 155 pounds, McLaurin, High Point, over Shirey, 8:50 time advantage; 165 pounds, Blackwelder, Davidson,
over Symmey, 6:54 time advantage; 175 pounds, Hodgin, Davidson, over H. Lea, 9:15 time advantage; unlimited, Fort, Davidson over Evans,
fall after 4:20 minutes.

The matmen will meet the Central Y. M. C. A. team of Spray, in the local gymnasium next Saturday night,
January 12. The Spray team will arrive on Saturday afternoon, weighing in at 3:00. Following this meet, regular practice will
be discontinued until after exams. The first clash of next semester will be on Saturday, February 2 when the Wildcats
meet Duke.

Rumors Are Denied By Cat Football Coaches

There have been many rumors during the past month concerning the possibilities of Coaches Newton and McEver leaving Davidson to
accept positions at other colleges. These possibilities still exist; however, no definite action has been taken by either of the
two. Coach Newton has received an offer from the University of South Carolina but has not accepted the offer because
he is very well satisfied with his place at Davidson. Coach Newton has intimated that he would have to receive
a substantial salary increase before he will consider any such offer. It has been repeatedly rumored that Coach McEver has
received a coaching offer from the University of Tennessee, his alma mater, where he made a name for himself as
an All-American player. McEver refuses to discuss the question and denies any knowledge of such an offer. He also expresses
satisfaction with his present position at Davidson.

Newton and McEver came to Davidson in 1932 and have just completed their third season as mentors of the Wildcat
eleven. They have been responsible for a football renaissance at Davidson and have brought the Wildcats to a place where
they furnish keen competition for the larger colleges on their schedule. Newton and McEver have received the wholehearted support of
the student body and faculty in their efforts to produce a winning team.

Preparations Made For Annual Boxing Tourney

Preparations for the intramural boxing tournament to be held a month from now will begin this week with the opening
of a class of instruction in the art of pugilistics. Capt. Norton G. Pritchett, Director of Athletics, will give instructions
in the upper room of the old gymnasium to those students who wish to enter the competition. The teaching will
take up the fundamentals and gradually work up to sparring. The tentative time for these lessons as “The Davidsonian” goes
to press is from 4:30 to six every afternoon.

Attractive medals for the winners in each of the seven classes have already been secured. The tournament is a regular
sport of the college’s intramural athletic program. The seven weight limits are: 115, 125, 135, 145, 160, 175 pounds, and
the unlimited weight class. The tournament will probably last two days. Four of last year’s winners are still enrolled in
school. They are Coley Windham, 175 pounds class winner; John Lee, 160 pounds; Earle Frazier, 145 pounds; and Knox Thompson,
winner of the trophy in the 135-pound class. Dwight Santiago, winner in the 125-pound class, and “Flash” Ormand, 115-pound winner,
have graduated.

CATS WILL PLAY THREE INVADERS

Quintet Will Meet Lenoir Rhyne, Catawba, And State Before Exams

Coach Flake Laird’s varsity quintet will play only three more games before examinations start on January 17. No games will
be played during the exam period. The three teams scheduled for this month are Lenoir Rhyne, Catawba, and North Carolina
State. Two of the games, possibly all three, will be played on the home court.

The Wildcats met a strong outfit from Oglethorpe last night in the Davidson gym. The Oglethorpe team has had a
good record so far this year. They have defeated both the College of Charleston and the Atlanta Y, a team
which the Wildcats are scheduled to meet later in the season.

On the night of Thursday, January 10, Davidson will meet Lenoir Rhyne in a return game here at Davidson. The
’Cat cagers decisively defeated the Hickory quintet before Christmas at the beginning of the season, and they are expected to
score another victory. A game with Catawba College at Salisbury is scheduled for Monday, January 14. It is possible that
this game will be played at Davidson instead. The place will be decided in the near future.

The final game before exams will be against an old rival, North Carolina State, on the night of Wednesday, January
16, at Davidson. This will be the third Big Five game of the season for the Wildcats.Wildcats, and, having lost
both of the other encounters by small margins, they hope to show their strength against State. Wofford, the team which
Davidson beat by five points in an extra period game on January 3, managed to win handily from State.

Several members of the Davidson faculty spent parts of the Christmas holidays out of town. Dr. and Mrs. G. B.
Watts, Mrs. J. W. McConnell, and Coach and Mrs. Newton and children visited in Washington. Dr. and Mrs. T. W.
Lingle, Dr. and Mrs. Faser Hood, and Dr. and Mrs. W. R. Grey spent the holidays with relatives in New
York.

KITTEN QUINT TO PLAY TWELVE GAME SCHEDULE
Contests With Duke And Carolina Frosh Have Been Added To Programs
EXPECT GOOD SEASON
Six Games To Be Played Here With Equal Number Away

Four games, two each with the Duke and North Carolina Freshmen, have been added to the Freshmen basketball schedule, Coach
Grier Martin announced yesterday. This will give the first-year men a twelve-game schedule. The Carolina Freshmen are scheduled to meet
the Kittens here Jan. 26 and on February 18 the Duke Frosh will play here. February 12 and 13 will
find the Freshmen playing the Duke and Carolina Freshmen in Durham and Chapel Hill respectively.

Today will round up a week of practice since the holidays. During this time Coach Martin’s proteges have been steadily
rounding into shape and appear to be headed for a good season, despite the fact that they dropped a 17-16
contest to the Paw Creek quintet before the holidays. The twelve-game schedule calls for six games here with as many
on the road. Early in February the Kittens will make an extended trip into Virginia, playing Augusta Military Academy, Fishburne
Military Academy, and Woodberry Forest. A game with the Georgia Military Academy five of Atlanta fell through when the Georgia
quintet could not complete a schedule up this way. However, Darlington of Rome, Georgia has been added.

The following schedule has been announced by Coach Martin:

Games
Jan. 8—Paw Creek, there.
Jan. 15—Charlotte Hot Point, here.
Jan. 26—North Carolina Freshmen, here.
Feb. 5—Augusta Military Academy, Ft. Defiance, Virginia.
Feb. 6—Fishburne Military Academy, Waynesboro, Virginia.
Feb. 7—Woodberry Forest, Orange, Virginia.
Feb. 9—Darlington Prep, here.
Feb. 12—Duke Freshmen, Durham.
Feb. 13—North Carolina Freshmen, Chapel Hill.
Feb. 18—Duke Freshmen, here.
Feb. 19—East Carolina Teachers College, here.

Juniors Are Victors In Intramural Volley Ball

In the intramural volley ball tournament which was completed just before the holidays, the Juniors were first, the Seniors second,
the Freshmen third and the Sophomores were last. The victorious Juniors were captained by Dick Parker; the others on the
team were: Bill Benfield, Bill Bell, Martin Barnett, Tom Downie, Bill “Goose” Goslen, R. R. Gregory, Sam Farley, F. S.
Furness, Harvey Glass, Hutaff, Jack Jenkins, Bob Lindsay, Sam Milton, Bill Morton, J. J. McNabb, Don Stewart, and S. Young.
Each team played each other team in the tournament twice.

Heath Whittle, director of intramural sports announced that there will be no more intramural tournaments until after the semester examinations.
The first intramural tournament after the examination period will be in Basketball. Practice balls can be secured from Heath Whittle.
The next tournament after exams will be the soccer tournament which was supposed to have been run before the holidays,
but was postponed because the volley ball tournament wasn't finished in time. Soccer is a new game in the intramural
program at Davidson, and much interest has been shown in it since its introduction here last fall.

EXAM PADS
Trying Period
Good Luck
WHITE DRUG CO.
And Other Supplies to Ease that

Quint Beats Terriers But Devils And Phantoms Win

KITTEN COACH

Mr. Grier Martin, alumni secretary and publicity director, has taken over the coaching of freshman basketball this year. Martin played
varsity basketball at Davidson for three years and upon graduation coached intramural ball at Emory University while obtaining his M.A.
degree there. He succeeds Bruce Peabody at his new post.

TRAINING BEGINS FOR TRACK MEN
Early Practice To Select Men To Fill Seven Gaps

With Old Man Football hibernating for the winter and Basketball new in the sport world’s fancy, rumbles of activity were
heard from Trackdom this week as Capt. N. G. Pritchett issued a special call for the track squad. The reason
for the early show of hands is that seven gaps must be filled in the squad if it is to
equal the mark set by its predecessors. The 100 and 220 yard sprints were left vacant by the failure of
“Ras” Evans and “Mokey” Faison to return and the graduation of Miller Cochran, record-breaking Captain of last year’s team, will
be sorely felt in the shot and discus events. The 440 and the 880 yard runs are also in the
state of partial vacuity.

To aid in developing talent for these events Pritchett announces that a board track, six feet wide and 150 yards
long will be constructed on the quadrangle in front of Georgia dormitory. He asks that all who have any possibilities
or experience whatever turn out for practice. In a further effort to discover new talent Pritchett revealed plans for an
event similar to the decathlon, to be held shortly before the track season. This event lasts two weeks and is
purely an individual affair. Contestants may enter any or all of the probably fourteen events that will be run but
will only be allowed to count ten of them in his scoring. The individual who makes the highest number of
points will be given an award and there will be secondary awards. The decathlon will be intramural and any student
may enter. The fourteen probable events will be: the 100, 220, 440, 880 yard runs; the mile and two-mile runs;
the high and broad jumps, the shot put, discus and javelin throw; the high and low hurdles.

All— Exam Requirements
Dixie Legal Tablets
Sheaffer Fountain Pens
Your Name In Gold FREE
COLLEGE PHARMACY
Davidson’s Service Drug Store
Next to Post Office

Morgan, Knorr, And Ross Star In Thrilling 40-35 Win Over Wofford
OTHER GAME CLOSE
Wildcats Lost To Duke 39-35; To Carolina 36-26

In a game that featured possibly the most thrilling basketball rally ever staged in the Wildcats’ lair, a scrappy Davidson
quint shot baskets at all angles in the last few minutes of play to top the Wofford Terriers 40-35. Trailing
22-12 at the half, the ’Cats gradually worked up to a one-point lead over the South Carolinians in the last
part of the game. However, a foul shot by Wofford tied the score and caused an extra period playoff. It
was in the extra five minutes of play that the Wildcat five led by Kenneth Knorr, put the game on
ice with a brilliant scoring dash which netted five points. Wofford was held scoreless during the extra period. Davidson opened
up the game with a slow lifeless start, but with the aid of Morgan and Peabody, the game picked up
considerably. Anderson of Wofford led the scoring with 12 points, while Morgan followed with 10 counters.

Lineup:
Wofford (35) Davidson (40)
Roberts (3) ----- (4) Ross
Munk (4) ----- (3) Harris
Norrell (6) ----- (10) Morgan
Neal (6) ----- (2) Cathey
Anderson (12) ----- (3) Peabody
Hendley (3) ----- (0) Yelverton
Cannon, W. (0) ----- (0) Shuler
Windham (4) ----- (2) Quick

Duke 39—Davidson 35
Meeting unexpected opposition, the highly touted Duke University quint was hard-pressed to nose out a fighting Wildcat five, 39-35, in
a game sponsored by the Winston-Salem Junior Chamber of Commerce in the R. J. Reynolds High School gymnasium. The Blue
Devils got the jump at the sound of the opening whistle, but the 'Cats led by the efforts of Jim
Morgan, elongated center, forged ahead before the half ended to pocket a one-point lead over the Durham team. However, Eddie
Cameron’s charges retaliated just before the rest period, with a vigorous attack which restored the Dukes to a 17-14 margin.
Coming back in the second half, the ’Cats staged several exciting rallies, but the appearance of Kunkle of Duke in
the game and his subsequent netting of eight points, put the game away for the University quint. Morgan, Peabody, and
Quick, were outstanding for Davidson, as were Bell, Kunkle, and Pollock for Duke. Approximately 800 people saw the game.

North Carolina 36—Davidson 26
North Carolina’s mighty “White Phantoms” breezed into Charlotte last Saturday night, and turned back a fighting Wildcat five in Central
High gym. Webster, Carolina center, led the scoring with a total of 13 points. The two teams appeared to be
evenly matched at the outset of the game, but Webster with the help of Aiken and McCachren, stepped in to
open up the fireworks that gave the Phantoms a 19-11 lead at the half. Captain Harris of Davidson, however, rang
up a long shot from the center of the court, starting a rally that cut the lead to six points.
Morgan instigated the second important Wildcat rally of the game, but Aitken of Carolina put up vigorous opposition and the
threat ended.

HAIRCUTS NOT CENSORED at JOHNSON'S BARBER SHOP
Our Service And Workmanship Speaks For Itself
NORTON’S BARBER SHOP
