THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 12, 1935

HOSE SKIRMISH RENEWS GEORGIA-WATTS BRAWL

Insulting Chapel Notices Augment Ill-Feeling Between Dormitories

TEA-HOUNDS SOAK RATS

Rodents Return Aquatic Attack With a Cup of Tea

History repeated itself on the Davidson campus last Friday night in a renewal of the picturesque War of the Hoses, the annual aquatic skirmish between Georgia and Watts dormitories. As is customary on the occasion of this conflict, several potential firemen were discovered; also, several potential trackmen. A spirit of hostility had been brewing for several days, augmented by insulting chapel notices from one to the other, and added to greatly by Elder Sugg’s camp-meeting on Thursday night. Featured by the flock were a few spirituals, many battle cries, and frequent battle hymns.

At approximately ten forty-five on the night of the hostilities, a contingent of decoys from the Watts stronghold was dispatched to the rear of Georgia Fort, where, with a bombardment of gravel and small rocks, they succeeded in luring the main body of the enemy’s forces, who responded with a volley or two of water, supplied through the local piping system. Meanwhile, a party of Wattsites, taking advantage of the success of the decoy division in the rear, mounted their artillery at the munition supply base slightly to the west of Georgia’s front-line trenches. The Georgia sentries soon discovered this activity, and the battle front quickly shifted to this new point.

From this time on, the line of fire wavered back and forth between the opposing armies’ barracks. It was learned that a party of Georgia guerrillas had darkened the front of Watts by the simple, yet effective, method of destroying the light bulbs which supplied illumination there, but this move, rather than discouraging them, seemed to serve only to move the men of Watts to more aggressive action. The result was a long and continuous volley against the front of the enemy stronghold, rendered somewhat futile by the fact that the gate to this castle had been closed, the draw-bridge raised, and for the night tightly locked.

The large and courageous audience witnessing the encounter was given a thrill time and again when the struggle for possession of the only weapon in sight sent its full force in their direction. When the tide of battle seemed strong against them, the Georgians who remained in the fort showed an admirable spirit of defiance by adopting the water tower strategy. At great peril to themselves, they raised a window and sent forth a tumblerful (or maybe it was a bucketful) of the fluid, aimed at the heads of the attackers. The fact that they only succeeded in further wetting the walls of their own stronghold detracts not at all from the glory of their undertaking, and that goes for the laughs of those who looked on, as well: so say the leaders of the movement.

With the surrounding land a quagmire, distrustful Georgians kept their warriors across the moat until positive identification could be made, but all presumably reached their haven. Vital statistics: one Wattsite deprived of the power of respiration for a short time, approximately twenty men of each army drenched to the skin, and maybe beyond. On the following morning, the scene of activity shifted to the Chambers Auditorium, where the missiles used were relatively unimportant.

Old Graduates Obtain New Alumni Journals

The December issue of the “Davidson College Alumni Journal” was mailed Tuesday, December the tenth, to more than five thousand alumni. This issue completes the second year of the magazine, which is issued quarterly. The “Journal” contains many interesting items concerning the alumni and their activities. It also relates the progress of the alumni chapters in the leading cities of the country. The magazine is edited by Grier Martin, the Alumni Secretary of the school.

Quaint Loon Bird Given To Museum

A very attractive item on display in the college museum, located on the second floor of the north wing of Chambers Building, is a loon or Great Northern Diver. This bird was obtained through Mr. J.B. Johnston of Barium Springs, N.C., who bought it from someone in his community who had killed it. The loon is a large, heavy bird, being the size of a white goose. The form-fitting collar is a conspicuous, yet attractive, part of his attire. So far to the rear of his body are the loon’s feet that he is practically helpless on land. Being compelled to raise his breast, he can take only a few steps before he has to stop and rest. Nevertheless, he is very swift in water. He is able to rise into the air only from a large body of water. The loud, far-reaching cry of the loon is one of the wildest in nature. The bird spends the summer at the northern lakes and winters on the Atlantic seaboard, especially in the Pamlico Sound. Occasionally, the loon is found as far inland as here.

ORCHESTRA AND GLEE CLUB GIVE CONCERT DEC. 6

Program Given In High School Auditorium Under J. C. Pfohl’s Direction

PLAY IN MT. GILEAD

Trip Taken Through Lake Tillery Power Plant

The Davidson College Glee Club and Salon Orchestra, under the direction of Mr. James C. Pfohl, gave a concert in Mount Gilead last Friday night. It was held in the High School auditorium at seven forty-five. The two organizations left here Friday afternoon and went to Mount Gilead by bus. As soon as they arrived there, they were taken to different homes and given supper and a place to change clothes. After the program, the boys were shown through the Lake Tillery Power Plant. This proved to be a very interesting sight.The text has been cleaned up while preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

was opened by the Glee Club with O Bone Jesu (O Holy Father) by Palestrina. Following this were Ave Maria by Arcadelt, Ye Watchers and Ye Holy Ones, a seventeenth-century melody. The program then entered the Salon Orchestra rendering Lift Up Your Heads from the “Messiah,” which was written by Handel. Mii Wa bs by Grainger entitled Londonderry Air was posed by Allen, baritone; and Don Dickson's Thanks Be to God, a negro spiritual. Babcock gave a cello solo Nin com D Ramiseur. The Davidson College Quartet, consisting of Paul Hudson, first tenor; J. tenor; Cy M. Pfohl, second bass, sang Steal Away. After a short intermission, the Glee Club sang two negro spirituals: Tis Me O Lord and De Gospel Train. The orchestra played a selection by Triml from “Rose Marie.” The quartet returned with Grandfather’s Clock and Your Land and My Land from “My Maryland,” after which the Glee Club concluded the program with three folk songs: Reaper’s Song, Gute-Nacht, and Land Sighting. Davidson appropriately was the last part of the concert. Ken Scott was the accompanist for the Glee Club and Mr. Pfohl for the quartet.

Examples of the gems inspired by the warlike spirit are herewith presented. Due to a slightly better night before, the morning after seems to have found Watts followers the more writers of the antagonists, the result being that we must content ourselves with two pro-Watts announcements: “Through the courtesy of the Watts Purchase Company, we now bring you the weather report for Georgia and vicinity: continued showers.”

Simon “Simple Simon” went to college to get some sense. Simple Simon roomed in Georgia, for he was very dense. “Now Georgia is a rat-hole, and Simon was a rat. And so he fitted exactly the place where he was at. Simon ripped and snorted, and yelled for the Georgia team. And Simon held the fire hose, but when the game drew near, old Simon was affrighted, for Watts delighted on the field. ‘Woe is me,’ quoth woeful Simon. His cohorts also trembled much, for they resembled Simon. And when the game was over, there was jubilee in Watts fellows, but Simon and his wished for a graveyard lot.”

Moral: “O Georgia rats, O Georgia men, go scamper to your nest. Eat your cheese, and bend your knees, for Watts, you know, is best.”

WEST TRADE ST.

New Shipment of Phonograph Records
PARKER-GARDNER CO. — CHARLOTTE

Commencement Invitations
Fraternity Publications
1143 E. FOURTH ST.
Lamont Brown Fine Printing
QUEEN CITY PRINTING CO.
Representatives
Visiting Cards
Personal and Fraternity Stationery
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
R. P. Morrow

New Books Added to Library Shelves

New Volumes of Famous Writers Contain Varied Subject Matter

A number of books have recently been placed in the library dealing with sociology, anthropology, biography, and philology. Burton Jesse Hendrick, a famous biographical and historical writer who has won three Pulitzer Prizes, presents his new book “The Lees of Virginia.” This book is an absorbing tale of the influence of the most influential southern family in American political and social history.

“Old Jules,” a book that won the Atlantic Monthly's five thousand dollar non-fiction prize for 1935, is contributed by Mari Sandoz. Sandoz, a Swiss by birth, who comes to America in 1884, and after forty years of fighting against the cattle and sheep men to settle on the sandhills of Nebraska, finally changes that country into land for homes. Miss Sandoz relates the conversations she hears when she is supposed to be asleep, and many incidents that occur to her father.

Lindbergh comes to the Orient with “North to the Orient,” an account of the Lindberghs' flight to the Great Circle Route in the summer of 1931. Starting at Long Island, this couple flew through Canada, Maine, Alaska, Siberia, Japan, and China. Their flight ended at Nanking, while their plane overturned being lowered from the British airplane “Termes.” This is a very dramatic and fascinating narrative.

“The Long Road” by Fay-Cooper Cole deals with the rise of man from savagery to civilization. This book answers questions such as: Are the existing races related? If so, why are they now so different? Is there a superior race, and if so, has it always led in civilization?

College Paper Almost Misses Its Destination

For the second time this year, the DAVIDSONIAN failed to appear at the accustomed time; in fact, it almost failed to appear at all. Wednesday afternoon, a member of the business staff went down to get this week's issue from the 4:05 bus. However, the driver evidently did not see his signal and continued on his way without stopping. After several frantic phone calls and a hurried automobile ride, the runaway paper was located in Mooresville and was returned in time to be distributed at the usual hour. The issue of October 8th was completely lost when a prankish striker purloined the copy from the Charlotte Bus Station.

BIDS ISSUED BY SIGMA PI SIGMA

At the meeting of Sigma Pi Sigma on Monday night, five new members were initiated. New members are G. A. Hornbeck, J. B. Huntington, F. M. Mack, J. P. Moore, and V. S. Ritchie. George Hornbeck talked on the “Incertitudes and Realities of Cosmic Rays.” Some of the points brought out in his talk are: “The purpose is to present a few of the newly accepted theories and facts pertaining to the cosmic rays; and likewise several phenomena and characteristics which still remain a mystery. The long dispute of the nature of the cosmic ray is perhaps at last coming to a conclusion. The study of this penetrating radiation from outer space has long been a battlefield in which two opposing schools of thought have struggled for supremacy. Dr. Robert A. Millikan of the California Institute of Technology is the leader of the older school which maintained that the rays were made up of photon or light quanta. The supporters of the newer theory, led by Dr. Arthur Holly Compton of the University of Chicago, are diametrically opposed to this. They believe that the rays are streams of electrically charged particles, including electrons, protons, and possibly alpha particles.”

John Anderson talked on Heavy Hydrogen, its method of discovery, and some of its uses.

Soloists Are Featured On Friday’s Broadcast

Davidson College presented its weekly broadcast from Chambers Auditorium Friday night from ten until ten-thirty, over the remote control facilities of Station WBT. The program featured three distinguished soloists from New York City: Kate Keith Field, soprano; Frank Tucker, baritone; and Louise Nelson Prohl, pianist. Grier Martin gave the news from Davidson College.

GIFTS For Men

HICKOK BELT SETS $1.00 and $2.00
INTERWOVEN SOX 3 prs. for $1.00
MEN'S TRAVEL SETS $2.45 to $9.85
BOXED HANDKERCHIEFS 3 for $1.00
HICKOK SUSPENDERS $1.00
SWANK JEWELRY 50c to $1.94
HANSEN GLOVES $1.25 to $3.45

Men’s Department Street Floor
BELK’S CHARLOTTE, N. C.