THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 6, 1935

Lingle Speaks To Associated College Group
“The College and the Alumni” Is Topic Of President’s Atlanta Address

DISCUSSION GROUPS HELD
Davidson Leader Meets With Southern Delegates

Dr. Walter Lingle’s engagement took him to Atlanta, Georgia, this past weekend, where he gave a talk before the regional
conference of The Association of American Colleges. He spoke on “The College and the Alumni.” After he had concluded, discussion
groups on this subject were held. This talk was one of the highlights of a program which lasted from Friday
morning, November 1, until noon of the following day.

Representatives from colleges all over the South were present, many of them having parts on the program. Dr. Lingle approached
his subject in the following manner: First, he took for granted that the college and the alumni wanted to be
mutually helpful; then, he discussed how alumni, as an asset, may become a liability, and, finally, some of the ways
in which a college may serve its alumni.

Alumni may be an asset, according to Dr. Lingle, by their actions and lives after graduation; by sending the college
the finest boys and girls in their respective communities; by backing the college in its stand for high ideals; by
encouraging athletics (if not carried to an extreme); and, finally, by financial aid or, if that cannot be provided, by
interesting others in the college.

Unfortunately, a few alumni may become a liability, by living below the standards of the college, by attempting to run
the college themselves, and by too much encouragement of athletics. Drinking at games has a particularly demoralizing effect on the
students.

A college sometimes forgets that it can serve its alumni, but there are many opportunities for it. It can keep
alumni well-informed about the work of the college and the activities of other alumni; it can help place them wherever
they wish to work, either in graduate schools or in regular positions; it can encourage alumni to continue studying after
they leave college; and it can welcome them heartily whenever they return to the old college, thus keeping alive the
love for their alma mater.

Although Dr. Lingle began his address by saying that some few colleges needed to be saved from their alumni, he
ended with this statement: “Mr. Chairman, as I have thought and worked over this subject, I have become fully convinced
that the college presidents do not need to be saved from their alumni. On the contrary, the alumni are the
finest friends and the richest assets which any college has.”

Dr. Lyons Makes Talk On Photographic Hints

The Davidson Photographic Club met in Dr. Lyons’ classroom after drill last Wednesday afternoon. Dr. Lyons addressed the club on
“The Composition of Pictures.” This speech was illustrated and treated several fine points of photography. He explained that such elements
as foreground, background, and balance are important if good results are to be obtained. It is usually better to picture
a person with a landscape background in order that the object may appear of natural size. For larger objects, such
as buildings, Dr. Lyons thought it advisable to have balance or surroundings.

Alumni Secretary

Literary Club Elects Heads For New Year
Eumenean Society Chooses Dees, Finley, Yelverton, and Ross
“The English Novel” is Subject Of Address

The regular weekly meeting of the Eumenean Literary Society was held last Tuesday evening, October the ninth. At this meeting
the following officers were elected: Joe Dees, president; Bill Finley, vice-president; Yelverton, secretary; Harvey Ross, critic. The meeting was presided
over by Paul Haran, the retiring president.

The high spot of the meeting was an address by Dr. W.P. Cumming, who chose for his subject “The English
Novel.” In this talk, Dr. Cumming spoke on the origin of the novel in the Orient, particularly the characteristics of
English novels in the first two decades of the present century. In this phase of his talk, he contrasted the
novels of Samuel Butler with those of Dickens, Thackeray, and Eliot. He pointed out the versatility of the novel in
its length, space, time taken in narrative itself, and in the technique, with illustrations from various modern novels. He contrasted
the naturalistic method, which dealt with the story and characters objectively, and the psychological novel, which studied the subconscious mental
workings of the characters' minds. Finally, Dr. Cumming took up sociological and moral novels, illustrating from the works of Galsworthy,
Wells, Upton Sinclair, and others. “Mankind,” concluded Dr. Cumming, “has always loved to hear the story told, and that desire
is literature’s most satisfying reply.”

N.Y.A. To Offer Students Help
Government Organization Aid Increased Numbers

Financial assistance for 100,532 needy students in 1,514 colleges in 40 states, the District of Columbia, and Porto Rico will
be provided by the National Youth Administration, Aubrey W. Williams, executive director, announced today. Based on total enrollment of students
and affidavits received from the heads of these educational institutions as of October 18, 1935, the preliminary figures involve a
monthly allotment of $1,503,795 by the National Youth Administration to the colleges and universities.

The preliminary figures for 1935 show an increase of 48 educational institutions participating in the program and an increase of
6,201 students receiving aid. Figures from the states of Connecticut and Minnesota and Hawaii, which were included in the 1934
total, are not available, and, on the basis of 1934 participation, the 1935 increase will be approximately 100 educational institutions
and 9,504 students.

Movies On Nickel And Steel Are Presented

Two silent movies, “Nickel” and “The Heat Treatment of Steel,” were presented last Monday night in the chemistry laboratory by
the chemistry and physics departments. These films were from the United States Bureau of Mines.

Both the importance and the method of the heat treatment were portrayed in the picture dealing with steel. It was
stated that nearly 1500 parts in the modern automobile were subjected to this treatment, that over 1200 of the parts
so treated were in the engine alone.

The mining of nickel was first presented in the movie, and then its combinations with other metals and the uses
of alloys in modern industry were shown, ranging from mighty steam turbines to simple cooking utensils. In connection with the
history of nickel, it came out that the metal was originally called “devil’s copper” since its ore looked like copper
yet behaved differently.

Another scientific movie is tentatively scheduled for November 15, when “The Eye of Science” will be shown. The time is
to be announced later. These movies are free to all interested students.

BEAT DUKE!
And Celebrate After The Game At
WHITE DRUG STORE
Soda Fountain—Stationery—Fine Candies
ALUMNI ESPECIALLY WELCOME

Best Wishes for the Greatest Homecoming Week
COMMERCIAL NATIONAL BANK
Charlotte, N. C.

DR. W. P. CUMMING SPEAKS

Dr. P. H. Gwynn Delivers Series Of Addresses

Dr. P. H. Gwynn, Professor of Education, made a trip to Norfolk, Va., last weekend, where he made a series
of lectures to the Presbyterian Training School. The topics for all of the lectures given by Dr. Gwynn were on
the subject of “Adolescent Psychology.” They were given to the students two times a day and three times on Sunday.
On returning to North Carolina, Dr. Gwynn gave the sermon at the Westminster Presbyterian Church of Charlotte, last Sunday.

Many Try For Rifle Prizes
Medals Donated For Excellence In Marksmanship

Although most of the men trying out for positions on the rifle team are without previous experience, they are showing
enthusiasm and are developing ability rapidly. Among the leaders in scoring are Read Purnell, J. Peper, G. B. Cleveland, L.
B. Huntington, and Theiling. According to C. C. Quick, who is managing the team, the officials are well pleased with
the spirit shown up to this point. The team is “starting from scratch,” and the competition is very keen.I would
like to inform you that the rifle range is open every evening from 7:00 to 9:00 o'clock. At present, arrangements
may be made for shooting in the afternoon. Prizes for this preliminary competition, which are three medals in gold, silver,
and bronze, are on display in the window of White's Store. To be eligible in the medal competition, the shooter
must turn in his scores before Thanksgiving. Matches are scheduled for the squad against teams representing military schools and colleges
from all over the United States.

Gordon R. Wood, ’35, Is Study Of Davidson Faculty

A study of the professors of Davidson College reveals many interesting facts: The total number of professors is 44. Of
this number, 13 teach language; 12, science; 12, social science; 1, music; and 5, military tactics. Of the professors teaching
language, 5 teach Greek; 1, Latin; 2, French; 2, German; 4, Spanish; and 4, English. Of the professors teaching science,
3 teach chemistry; 4, mathematics; 1, physics; 2, biology; and 2, hygiene. Of the professors teaching social science, 2 teach
history; 2, philosophy; and 7, Bible and miscellaneous subjects.

Twenty-two professors obtained their initial degree from Davidson, and 22 obtained theirs from other universities. Three of the faculty received
degrees from Yale, 3 from Harvard, 3 from Princeton, 3 from Columbia, 3 from the University of Chicago, 8 from
Johns Hopkins University, 10 from the University of North Carolina, and 7 from foreign universities. One of the faculty received
degrees from 4 foreign universities, and one from 3. Professors have also received degrees from 16 other miscellaneous schools of
learning. Twelve professors have received the degree of A.B.; 5, the degree of B.S.; 21, the degree of M.A.; 2,
the degree of LL.D.; 2, the degree of B.D.; 14, the degree of Ph.D.; 1, the degree of M.S.; 2,
the degree of LL.D.; and 6 have received various others. In all, the professors of Davidson College have received over
72 degrees.

Those of the professors who are members of honorary fraternities are as follows: 23, Phi Beta Kappa; 20, O.D.K.; 9,
Sigma Upsilon; 3, International Relations Club; 5, Sigma Phi Gamma; 4, Alpha Phi Epsilon; 5, Pi Gamma Mu; 2, Delta
Phi Alpha; 7, Le Cercle Francais; 1, Sigma Delta Psi; and 2, Sigma Delta Pi.

MEDICAL FRATERNITY MEETS

Pi Delta Alpha, the pre-medical fraternity, held its bi-monthly meeting Wednesday night in the Biology room. The floor was turned
over to Dr. Lyons, who discussed the subject of Embryology in its initial stages. The fraternity plans to have doctors
from the vicinity of Davidson speak at their meetings. The first of these speakers will be Dr. Todd of Charlotte,
North Carolina.

Masquers To Present Recent Broadway Hit

(Continued from Page 1)

Mrs. Grier Martin, remembered for her work in “The Boor,” has the leading feminine role of Toby in this hilarious
thriller. The comic relief will be played by Miss Orrie Steele, whom you remember as Mrs. Baker in “Three Taps
at Twelve,” a Masquers’ production of the past year. Some of the press notices given by New York newspapers during
the metropolitan run of “Whistling in the Dark” are as follows:

“The play’s scheme is ingenious. The authors are crafty enough to whisk the story this way and that—the Third Act
builds up into a frantic scramble of action and dialogue.” —New York Herald Tribune

“A cheerful evening of well-planned, vastly entertaining.” —The New York Times

“If you’ll take my advice, you will hurry to the Barrymore Theatre and have a darn good time with ‘Whistling
in the Dark.’” —The New York Graphic

With these recommendations in mind, let your conscience be your guide when the doors are opened for the Masquers’ presentation
of Gross and Carpenter's “Whistling in the Dark.”

Blue Devils Meet Wildcats In Highlight Of Football Year

(Continued from Page 1)

Greetings Given Alumni By Lingle and Chapman

(Continued from Page 1)

By DR. W. L. LINGLE

Gordon R. Wood, class of 1935, of South Charleston, West Virginia, who is doing post-graduate work at Duke University, has
been made a colonel on the staff of Governor Laffoon of Kentucky. Gordon is well-remembered as an outstanding man on
the campus. He is a member of Phi Beta Kappa, Sigma Upsilon, and Delta Phi Alpha honorary fraternities; he was
president of the Red and Black, president of the Fraternity Council, and First Lieutenant in the Davidson ROTC.

The Alumni Secretary is informing you about the details of the program for Homecoming. It is not necessary for me
to say anything about the program. The Alumni and the College through the years have made Davidson College what she
is today. That same spirit of mutual helpfulness will make a finer and better Davidson as she enters upon her
second century of service. So, again, I say there’s a hearty welcome to the Alumni.

Jimmy Poyner will play for the Homecoming dances this year, and according to the number of tickets sold, there will
be a large number attending. Both of the dances will be held in the ballroom of the Charlotte Hotel. The
Friday night dance will begin at ten o'clock and will last until two, and the Saturday night dance will begin
at eight and last until twelve. All alumni and friends of the college are invited.

By CARLETON CHAPMAN

When It’s Done By Buff, That’s Enuff

Monday and Tuesday

A wise-cracking detective plays with fire to help a friend!

Edmund LOWE in “Midnight”

Friday and Saturday

BILL CODY in “The Vanishing Rider”

15c until 6 20c Night

Monday Tuesday

The star and author of “Bad Girl” score again!

James DUNN and Dorothy Wilson in “STATE FAIR”

CHARLOTTE, N.C.

by VINA DELMAR

Dr. R. E. Speer Delivers Annual Otts Lectures

(Continued from Page 1)

The fourth series on “The Permanence of Christian Ideal” was given by Rev. Walter W. Moore, D.D., LL.D. The fifth
was given in 1930 by Rev. Harris E. Kirk, D.D., LL.D., and was entitled “Man’s Place in Nature and Beyond.”
The sixth series was given by Rev. Clarence C. Macartney, D.D., in 1934 on “Christianity and the Spirit of the
Age.” All friends of the College are invited to attend the lectures which will be given by Dr. Speer, starting
on Dec. 1.

As students, we will be pleased to do anything in our power to help you. Please do not fail to
call on us. We are earnestly looking forward to seeing you.

FOR STUFFY HEAD

A few drops up each nostril reduce swollen membranes, clear away clogging mucus, and bring welcome relief.

VICKS VA-TRO-NOL 30c double quantity 50c

All Latest Phonograph Records

PARKER-GARDNER CO. West Trade Street Charlotte

GIVE YOUR GIRL A LAUGH
