THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 1, 1935

Mecklenburg Presbytery To Oppose Dancing In Any Form

Dr. Edgar Gammon Proposes Matter Be Left Entirely To Trustees

ATLANTA ALUMNI FAVOR

Dr. Black States Dancing Is Slime Pit Of This Age

The Mecklenburg Presbytery went on record as being “unalterably opposed to dancing at Davidson College or elsewhere under sponsorship of Davidson organizations” in its semi-annual meeting held at the Central Steele Creek Church last week. This question of dancing on the Davidson campus received a great deal of discussion and brought to the surface more conflicting opinions than almost any other subject considered by the Presbytery. Previous to this, Presbyteries—King’s Mountain and Orange—had declared themselves opposed to dancing at Davidson, and the Alumni Chapter at Atlanta, more closely connected with the college itself, expressed themselves as “in favor of dancing on the Davidson campus.” This subject was discussed by the Presbyteries as the result of requests by Dr. C. R. Nisbet, chairman of the committee appointed by the trustees to report on the question. This action of the trustees was due to a petition submitted to them by the Student Policies Union in February. The query is being placed before all Presbyteries sponsoring the college.

The Mecklenburg Presbytery considered Dr. Nisbet's request on last Wednesday. In addition to going on record against dancing, the Presbytery requested the trustees of the college to refuse students permission to hold dances on the campus and also to bar Davidson students from holding dances in Charlotte. The Presbytery decided to take this view because Davidson “is a church-controlled institution, and to allow dancing at the college would be to contradict the well-known position of the General Assembly on the subject,” stated The Charlotte Observer. The decision was reached, however, only after a spirited discussion which showed a surprising number of churchmen whose views on the subject refused to conform with those of the General Assembly. The discussion began when Dr. Edgar Gammon, head of the committee on schools and colleges and pastor of the Myers Park Presbyterian church, recommended that the matter be left entirely with the board of trustees. Opposition to this was made manifest immediately when Rev. J. C. Grier of Mulberry rose and offered a substitute. His report, drastically opposed to Dr. Gammon’s recommendation, read: “Inasmuch as Davidson College is a Christian College under the control of membership of the Presbyterian church and inasmuch as the General Assembly has from time to time sent down a deliver- (Continued on Page 6, Col. 1)

We Do All Kinds of Shoe Repairing, Let Us Serve You

BUFF SHOE SHOP

Entire Week Opening Monday, May 6th

First Story of the Federal Agents! Shot-by-Shot Dramatization of Gangland’s Waterloo

G-MEN Government Men

Starring James Cagney with Ann Dvorak—Margaret Lindsay Rob’t Armstrong

“Faster than a machine gun,” say critics.

Balcony Anytime 25c

Patterson Elected To Student Council Post

Buford Patterson was elected as the third student representative in the recent elections of the freshmen class. He won out in a very close race against Joe Alderman, on Tuesday, April 23rd. In the recent elections, Jim Dorsett was chosen as a representative. In the third ballot with Wade Barrow, Joe Alderman, and Patterson left for the final vote, which was won by Patterson. Martin Lafferty is the other freshman member of the council as he was automatically appointed by his election as the class president.

Concert Program Will Present Noted Singer

The Charlotte Community Concert Series will present Lawrence Tibbett, operatic baritone, as one of the three or four distinguished artists secured for next year’s series, it was recently announced. In the annual membership campaign carried on by Charlotte’s musically interested citizens, one of the representatives presented the proposition to the Davidson student body at a recent chapel service. The students were offered membership in next year’s series of three or four concerts, along with admission to the final concert of this year’s series, that of Nelson Eddy, for minimum prices. The committee in charge of securing artists for the season will secure the remaining musicians during the coming year. Davidson College was well represented in the membership with some thirty or more men who secured tickets in time for the Nelson Eddy concert. The auditorium of Elizabeth School, where all of these concerts are presented, has a seating capacity of about nine hundred. Although there were approximately six

College President Makes Two Talks

Dr. Lingle Speaks On Graham Memorial Fund And Objectives Of A Christian College

Dr. W. L. Lingle, president of Davidson College, made two addresses last week—one to the Charlotte Chamber of Commerce on Wednesday night and one on Thursday night to an assembly of the Associate Reformed Presbyterian Church in Due West, S. C. Dr. Lingle appeared as one of four speakers on the program before the Chamber of Commerce. The others were Mr. Grisette of U. N. C., former Senator Cameron Morrison, and Mayor Wearn of Charlotte. The main reason for the meeting was to consider a memorial for Dr. Alexander Graham, father of the grade school system in Charlotte and a leading educator of the state. There were approximately one hundred citizens present who proposed as a memorial to Dr. Graham a ten thousand dollar loan fund for the purpose of enabling Charlotte boys and girls to attend North Carolina institutions of higher education. Dr. Lingle spoke of his personal acquaintance with, and his admiration of Dr. Graham. He said that this memorial would be very appropriate, since Dr. Graham had spent his life in the education of Charlotte boys and girls, many ofwhom are now middle-aged men and women, Dr. Lingle pointed out the great need for such a fund, and how it would give many boys and girls chances that otherwise they would not have. Committees will be appointed to raise this money and also to raise a few more dollars to put a bronze tablet to Dr. Graham on Alexander Graham Junior High School. On Thursday night, the 131st session of the Associate Reformed Presbyterian Church, meeting at Erskine College, Due West, S.C., was brought to a close by an address by Dr. Lingle. He spoke on “Objectives of a Christian College.” Dr. Lingle said that although he was able to attend three great college associations each year, the Southern Association of Colleges, the Convention of the Church, and the EDDY APPEARS IN CHARLOTTE Star Of “Naughty Marietta” Favors Jazz; Bothered By Feminine Sex In Pictures (INTERVIEWED BY RICHARD VOWLEES) With his rich baritone voice, Nelson Eddy, of recent screen fame due to his picture “Naughty Marietta,” held a packed house spellbound at Elizabeth School, Charlotte, last Friday night. In the first half of the program, Nelson Eddy presented two groups, one in Italian and one in French. In “Au Pays” or “The Soldier's Return,” he brought out his theory, which he later expressed in the interview, that facial expression or dramatization is a necessary asset to vocal interpretation. Backstage after his last encore, “Dusty Road” just out from Hollywood, the world-famous baritone expressed his opinions to this reporter.

“How did you like working on ‘Naughty Marietta?’”

“It was swell—one of the greatest experiences that I have ever had.” After combing his blond curly hair at the dressing room mirror, he lounged back in an armchair prepared to be annoyed. The baritone was literally a blond giant with powerful handsome features—not the cold unapproachable musician, but the friendly man, desiring to put the inquiring reporter at his ease.

“How does your radio work compare with your moving picture work?”

“Oh, there’s no use trying to make a comparison. For that matter, there isn’t any—they’re so utterly different.”

“I noticed that you used a good deal of facial interpretation with a striking degree of success. Do you think this means of ‘putting over’ a number enhances or cheapens the performance?”

“Facial expression decidedly enhances a performance. This is just as in conversation. When I talk, I express myself as much by my face as by my words, and so it should be with singing.”

“What are the chances for a student of today in the field of music?”

“Contrary to some opinions, I believe there is a large opening in this field. It is not overly crowded by any means. Of course, it does take a great deal of work.” Then after expressing his liking for jazz in its place, he shook hands, and asked if there wasn’t something more I’d like to know.

Among the GREEKS

Beta Theta Pi: The brothers held their regular feed last Sunday night at the lodge.

Pi Kappa Alpha: Beta chapter of Pi Kappa Alpha was host at a little informal party on April 27. The out-of-town guests that were present were: Glenna Traeger, of New York; Corallie Means, Isabel White, Cora Hoover, Caddie Willis, Gertrude Ross, Jane Moore, Anne Hoover, Mary Frances Barnhardt, Julius Fisher, Melvin Means, “Bub” Coltrane, Bill Brown, Albert Howard, George Richmond, John A. Pickard, Lloyd McKay, Parks Lafferty, and Jim Towery of Concord; Eleanor Newman, Julian Crowder, and Jack Garrison of Salisbury; John Raynal, of Statesville; Ruth Hunt, Peggy Jones, Dot Messick, Jane Holman, Ann Purnell, and Mary Durden, of Charlotte; Mary Brawley, of Mooresville; Cynthia Pharr, Dot Johnson, and Frances Stough, and Mrs. F. W. Fredrickson, of Davidson.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon: Brothers Reid Bahnson, Bill Nicholson, and Ed Armfield attended the Guy Lombardo dances at the University of Virginia over the weekend. Pete Neill and Harris Barksdale paid a visit to Hollins at the same time.

Kappa Sigma: The brothers had their regular feed Sunday night.

Pi Kappa Phi: The Pi Kappa Phi Chapter had an informal party Saturday night. Among the out-of-town guests were: Lila Tucker, Lydia Stewart, and Catherine Graham of Charlotte, Dolly Melchor, Louise Melchor, and Caroline Taylor of Mooresville. Jimmy Walker and Billy Pritchett of Charlotte were also present.

Phi Gamma Delta: An informal feed was held Sunday night, and the new game of “Ghost” was played. Ed McNab was the winner. Arthur Cook and Elmore Holt spent the weekend in Greensboro, while Bob Stewart visited with Gene Vogler in Winston-Salem.

Phi Delta Theta: An informal feed was held on Sunday night.

NO SHORT-CUTS IN HANES SHORTS! Hanes cuts their shorts to the size the label says. They're big enough to let you bend and reach without any gripping or ripping!

POPULAR PRICES LONG WEAR SERVICE HANES Shirts, Shorts, Union-Suits for Men and Boys P. H. HANES KNITTING COMPANY WINSTON-SALEM

Fruit of the Loom shirts give a rare combination of all that makes a sound transaction. Good-looking, long-wearing, well-tailored, properly cut, reasonably priced at the “collar-on” model.

Men’s Shop Street Floor

Ooh, attached collars. They have STYLE they are MODERN that’s why we say— “wear FRUIT of the LOOM Shirts”

Some shirts wear well—but—no style. Others are all style and no service. Here’s where we make friends! Fruit of the Loom, handsomely buttoned, $1.49.

Men’s Shop Street Floor.