THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 20, 1935

MCCLURE TALKS FOR MINISTERIAL BAND GATHERING

Suggestions Are Given By “Y” Secretary From His Own Experience

MEET IN SOCIAL CENTER

Raises Question Of What Work Remains For Group

The Davidsonian Ministerial Band met Sunday afternoon, in the Social Center, with Albert McClure of the Y. M. C. A.
as the speaker. Fourteen members of the organization were present. James Salango opened the meeting with a passage from the
Bible, and Mr. McClure led in prayer. The meeting was turned over to “Mac” McClure after an able introduction by
Salango.

McClure, while a student here at Davidson, was also a member of the Ministerial Band, so was able to give
a good many practical and helpful suggestions. In its early days, he said, the Band used to take the place
of the “Y,” and tried to handle all the religious work on the campus. Now with the coming of the
“Y”, most of this work has been taken out of the hands of the Band. “What remains for the Band
to do?” was the question the speaker tried to answer in his talk.

“In his college days,” the speaker continued, “after the “Y” took over much of the Band’s work, meetings used to
be held every Sunday, in Shearer Hall. These meetings did not prove to be a very good thing for various
reasons. In general the attendance was poor, (a thing which is true on the campus today) and nothing was accomplished.
A later effort was to hold Social meetings once a month, instead of the regular weekly services, for the purpose
of creating good fellowship, and acquainting the members of the Band with each other. These meetings were, of course, conducted
with devotionals.” Altogether, however, the speaker said, the Ministerial Band accomplished very little, and amounted to very little as a
force on the campus.

McClure, in connection with the question of having a key as the insignia of the Band said that members of
the Band ought to be able to be recognized as Ministerial Candidates by their life and conduct on the campus,
not by an insignia. The speaker said, “Men should be able to say of you, ‘That man must be going
into the Ministry,’ rather than looking at your key, say, ‘Why is that man going into the Ministry?’”

In connection with going on deputations and such work, the speaker pointed out that everyone likes to go away to
preach. “We all love to go on deputations; but too much stress is being laid on the campus. Going somewhere
else to preach is the easiest and nicest thing to do; but we shouldn’t be too futuristic. There will be
plenty of opportunity to preach and get practice at preaching later on. We will learn when we go to Seminary
that the sermons constructed during our college days are ‘not exactly gems of perfection,’ anyway. Stress should be laid on
our own classroom and campus work. “God,” he said, “isn’t going to have much respect for the man who goes
on a deputation, or preaches a sermon, and (Continued on Page 6)

NORTON’S BARBER SHOP
20 Years Experience With Davidson Men
Expert Workmanship
Highest Quality

BUFF SHOE SHOP
O. F. Buff, Prop.
Half Soles Heels
Gulf Gas and Oil

M. P. HENDERSON

Radio Presentation Includes Three Musical Organizations
Glee Club, Orchestra Broadcast On Friday Night
Davidson Program

COLLEGE SONGS PLAYED

Hudson, Allen, Ramseur, And Pfohl Form Quartet

The Davidson Glee Club and the Davidson Salon Orchestra appeared on the college radio program last Friday night at ten
o'clock. This was the initial broadcast of the Glee Club for this year. The Davidson quartet composed Paul Hudson, first
tenor; John D. Allen, second tenor; C. M. Ramseur, baritone; and Donald Pfohl, bass; formed an important part of the
presentation. They offered three selections during the broadcast.

The period opened with O! Davidson, played by the orchestra and sung softly by the Glee Club. The Glee Club
then sang O Bone Jesus, O Holy Father, by Palestrina. This was followed by “A Mighty Fortress is Our God”
played by the orchestra. The quartet entered the program here giving Dickson’s “Thanks Be to God.” Afterwards the orchestra gave
“Songs of the South” arranged by Seredy, the quartet returned with “Sylvia” by Oley Speaks, and a novel “Grandfather's Clock.”
After the news of the campus given in brief, Mr. Pfohl played “Dear Old Duke” and “Hark the Sound of
Tar Heel Voices” on the organ in honor of these two universities who met on the gridiron Saturday. The orchestra
then saluted two of the country’s greatest teams: Northwestern with “Go Northwestern Go” and Ohio with “Across the Field.” The
Glee Club concluded the program with a negro spiritual, “Tie Me O Lord.” The orchestra played “O! Davidson" and the
Glee Club sang it in going off the air.

CINEMATIC COMMENTS

DAVIDSON THEATRE

Wednesday, Nov. 20
MARY BURNS, FUGITIVE
The cast includes Sylvia Sidney, Melvyn Douglas, and Alan Baxter.

Thursday and Friday, Nov. 21-22
THE THREE MUSKETEERS
En garde! Those four swashbuckling young swordsmen of France, the heroes of Dumas’ famous classic are out to save the
honor of their Queen again. It reveals D’Artagnan, Walter Abel, as an incompetent young cavalier whose headlong efforts to combat
an international intrigue are successful only because Athos, Paul Lukas; Porthos, Olsen; and Aramis, Onslow Stevens; interest in drying him
behind the ears.

Saturday, Nov. 23
CHARLIE CHAN IN SHANGHAI
Warner Oland as the suave little Chinese detective in another of those standard Charlie Chan stories. This time murder at
a dinner table gives Chan another opportunity of teaching his son more about good detective work.

Monday and Tuesday, Nov. 25-26
MUTINY ON THE BOUNTY
Charles Laughton, Clark Gable, Franchot Tone in a story of the South Seas that is like unto no other. Laughton
fans should be sure to see this one as they will again find him just the man for the part
of the pasty-faced, sharp-tongued, miserly sadist, Captain William Bligh!

PLATES MADE FOR CENTENNIAL

In celebration of the Centennial, a number of Wedgewood plates are to be made, with pictures of the Chambers Building
on them. These plates will be sold as Centennial mementos, in sets of a dozen, half dozen, or singly. The
cost is expected to be about a dollar and a half per plate. The plates will be made by Jones,
McDuffee, and Stratton, of Boston, makers of the well-known Wedgewood ware.

6:30-7:00 P. M.
Enjoy Davidson’s Only Dance Orchestra
PLAYING NIGHTLY
HOTEL DAVIDSON
6:30-7:00 P. M.

Language Group To Hear Prof. Fleagle

South Atlantic Modern Language Association Will Meet At Athens, Ga.

The eighth annual meeting of the South Atlantic Modern Language Association will be held at the University of Georgia, Athens,
on Friday and Saturday, November 29 and 30.

The only member of the Davidson College faculty to be on the program is Prof. F. K. Fleagle, of the
Spanish department, who will address the Spanish teacher’s group, in their sectional meeting, on “The Historical Background of the Bridge
of San Luis Rey.” Other Davidson professors attending are Prof. R. G. Bailey, Prof. F. L. Blythe, Prof. I. J.
Erwin, Dr. G. R. Vowles, and Dr. G. B. Watts.

This eighth annual meeting of the South Atlantic Modern Language Association will begin with a group of departmental section meetings
to be held in various campus buildings. Friday afternoon, at two o'clock, there will be a general session in the
University chapel, followed by a banquet that night. Other departmental section meetings will occupy most of Saturday morning; and the
meeting will conclude with a general business session, at which officers for the coming year will be elected.

Dr. Cummings’ Hobbies Disclosed To Interviewer
(Continued from Page 3)

Here all the books are indexed and filed in perfect order so that he can put his finger on one
“in the twinkling of an eye.” Of literary interest are the old leaves, bought on the Left Bank of the
Seine, from the Book Offices, and the Braille copy of St. Mark, which is about as interesting to a person
with good eyes as masses of piano rolls bound in book form. Dr. Cumming’s father, blind for some years before
his death, thought the Braille system entirely too complicated, learned instead the Moon in which a sort of full-relief of
the identical letters is used. (For instance, an “A” is an inverted “V” sticking up from the paper.) Of even
more interest to the author was a dilapidated third edition of Michael Drayton's poems. Dr. Cumming confessed to a weakness
for fine bindings, as his collection shows.

Of course, we expected reminders of Japan. They were all there, ornamental candle-sticks, a sort of hibachi (that gives the
only heat to Japanese houses), a ceremonial tea set, a beautiful, massy set of Canton china, brought back to Salem
by Mrs. Cumming’s grandfather, and crowning all, some Kutani and Satsuma vases and earthenware objects whose beauty of design was
amazing. The fineness of artistry displayed in theseDelicate, fragile masterpieces beggars description, although even if one would, one could not
describe them learnedly. Truly they are treasures, and they are preserved as such. There are interesting sidelights on the cubical
brazier which we describe.

ALSO TO ATTEND CONVENTION FOR CHEMICAL GROUP

Gamma Sigma Epsilon, Honorary Chemical Fraternity, to Meet At Alabama

PROFESSOR THIES GOING

Doctor Howard Plans to Attend With Others

The Biennial Convention of Gamma Sigma Epsilon, National Honorary Chemical Fraternity, will be held at the University of Alabama, November
22 and 23. Ross has been selected to represent Alpha Alpha Chapter at the convention. Professor O. J. Thies, who
is a member of the National Council, and Ross will leave Thursday. They will probably be accompanied by Dr. D.
L. Howard. A report which will include the activities of the Davidson Chapter for the past two years will be
given by Ross.

Gamma Sigma Epsilon was founded at Davidson College in 1919. Since then it has grown rapidly, and now has chapters
throughout the United States. The local chapter consists of six active members, and bids have recently been extended to five
new members, namely: Biglow, Jr., of Louisville, Ky.; R. W. Bradley, of Charlotte; T. H. Link, of Morganton; Toole, of
Talladega, Ala.; and P. M. Allen, of Charlotte. Membership in the fraternity is based on scholarship and interest in the
subject of Chemistry.

The local chapter is planning a series of programs, according to W. B. Wartman. At the last meeting on the
fourth of November, Dr. Howard gave an instructive talk on “The Periodic System.”

All the pieces have the conventional Japanese scene, with mountains, shrines, and those funny hump-backed bridges. It's a queer thing
about the significance of the bridges on the china. If one man is standing on the bridge, the piece is
quite valuable; if two, it is worth its weight in gold; but if there are three, the piece presumably is
beyond price. One of the larger dinner plates sports what might be Japan's three musketeers, or maybe three of the
forty-seven Ronin. We lay a wager that not many of you have seen such an idea as we have discovered
in one of the plates. The picture is on a false bottom, over a pan which is meant to be
filled with hot water through a spout at the side for the purpose of keeping the food hot. Nice? And
how many of you know the significance of the graceful stork-pine-tortoise candle-stick, that is so reminiscent of Japan? The pine
(wealth) rests on the stork (happiness), both of which are upheld by the tortoise (long life).

Massachusetts Institute of Technology has grouped those who contribute to its financial support into an organization called Research Associates of
M. I. T.

HARDWARE

M. H. GOODRUM & CO.
Davidson’s Oldest and Best

DRY GOODS

BROADWAY

Showing the Rest of This Week
GEO. RAFT
JOAN BENNETT
In “She Couldn’t Take It”

THANKSGIVING WEEK
Starting MON., NOV. 25th
JAMES CAGNEY
In the Biggest of His 5 Big Hits of 1935
“FRISCO KID”
With Margaret Lindsay
Ricardo Cortez

Over 1,000 Others
Friday and Saturday, Monday and Tuesday
“6 Day Bike Rider”
Joe E. Brown
“McCoy of the Mounted”
Buck Jones
“Wanderer of the Wasteland”
Dean Jagger
“Mississippi”
Bing Crosby
“McFadden’s Flats”
Charlie Ruggles
“Red Salute”
Barbara Stanwyck
“Here Comes the Band”
Ted Lewis
“Three Kids and a Queen”
May Robson
“Wings in the Dark”
Myrna Loy
“G Men”
James Cagney
“Star of Midnight”
William Powell
“Dante’s Inferno”
Spencer Tracy
“Curly Top”
Shirley Temple
“Broadway Melody of 1936”
Jack Benny
“Top Hat”
Fred Astaire
“Mutiny on the Bounty”
Clark Gable
“China Seas”
Jean Harlow
“Anna Karenina”
Greta Garbo
“David Copperfield”
W. C. Fields
“Les Miserables”
Fredric March
“Captain Blood”
Errol Flynn
“Lives of a Bengal Lancer”
Gary Cooper
“Call of the Wild”
Clark Gable
“Barbary Coast”
Edward G. Robinson
“Steamboat Round the Bend”
Will Rogers
“Ruggles of Red Gap”
Charles Laughton
“Bride of Frankenstein”
Boris Karloff
“Werewolf of London”
Henry Hull
“Mark of the Vampire”
Lionel Barrymore
“Mad Love”
Peter Lorre
“Dracula’s Daughter”
Gloria Holden
“Frankenstein”
Boris Karloff
“Bride of Frankenstein”
Boris Karloff
“Son of Frankenstein”
Basil Rathbone
“Ghost of Frankenstein”
Lon Chaney Jr.
“Frankenstein Meets the Wolf Man”
Bela Lugosi
“House of Frankenstein”
Boris Karloff
“House of Dracula”
John Carradine
“Abbott and Costello Meet Frankenstein”
Bud Abbott
“Abbott and Costello Meet the Invisible Man”
Bud Abbott
“Abbott and Costello Meet Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde”
Bud Abbott
“Abbott and Costello Meet the Mummy”
Bud Abbott

STATE

Dr. Sweets Is Guest Pastor At Sunday

Louisville Minister Is Head Of The Presbyterian General Assembly

TEXT FROM MATTHEW

Address Is Centered Around Purpose Of Life

Dr. Henry L. Sweets, Secretary of Ministerial Relief and Christian Education, and Moderator of the General Assembly of the Presbyterian
Church in the U.S., was the guest minister of the College at the Vespers service, Sunday, November 17. Dr. Sweets
is a resident of Louisville, Kentucky. Dr. Sweets took as his text Matthew 5:48, “Be ye therefore perfect even as
your Father which is in heaven is perfect.” To develop his thought Dr. Sweets first asked the questions, “Why are
we here?” “Why are we on earth?” The pastor then pointed out that Jesus considered that the real purpose of
life is to be perfect, to develop a well-rounded personality that we might go out and show others the real
life and build up in them the Christian spirit, which is the basis of Jesus's “perfect” type of personality.

To develop this personality, Dr. Sweets named as the first essential a sound body in which to house a sound
mind. He stated that only through God can we procure a sound body and mind. He next advised us to
watch our emotional feelings, and to live in the beauty of holiness. His illustration for this point was the story
of how he had learned to appreciate classical music and the beauties of nature. “Develop a spirit of reverence,” was
the speaker’s next admonition. The life of the great scientist Charles Darwin became barren through the loss of the spirit
of reverence. “A spirit of reverence,” said Dr. Sweets, “must be preserved or we will become poor indeed.”

“We must watch our wills as they determine our moral and ethical lives. We are to use the knowledge and
power that we have stored in our minds, for it is faith that worketh through love, and not just merely
placid faith that builds the lives of men.” And lastly, we must watch our religious life because religion is the
source of all the virtues and powers which enable man to develop his personality. Dr. Sweets gave the definitions of
religion given by various people, and then said that the definition which he liked best (Continued on Page 6)

Vesper Services

Town TATTLE

The Book-Lovers Club met Friday evening at the home of Mrs. J. R. Withers. Mrs. C. H. Hamilton was the
assisting hostess. Out-of-town guests were Mrs. Jack Black, of Greenville, S. C., and Mrs. Porter Vinson, of Rochester, Minn.

Mr. and Mrs. Harry Sample, of Fort Pierce, Fla., are visiting in the home of Mrs. Harriet Sample. The Samples
have a son and nephew in college.

Mr. Eustace Lingle, and his daughter, Jean, of New York City, spent the weekend with Mr. Lingle’s parents, Dr. and
Mrs. T. W. Lingle.

Prof. and Mrs. W. G. McGavock attended the Vanderbilt-University of Tennessee football game, Saturday, Nov. 16, in Knoxville, Tenn. Mrs.
Eugene McEver accompanied them to Knoxville, where she visited relatives.

Mrs. J. V. Lore has returned to her home after a visit of several weeks with her mother in Tallahassee,
Fla.

The local scout troop is being reorganized under the direction of John Walker, head of Boy's Work in the “Y”
Cabinet. Plans are being made for the building of a workshop to house the woodworking tools purchased by Sam Nickey,
a former member of the “Y” Cabinet.

Rev. D. D. Holt, the new pastor of the Davidson Methodist Church, addressed the students of the local high school,
Tuesday morning, Nov. 12.

Mrs. Walter Lingle has returned after a visit of a few days with relatives in Greensboro.

At the regular meeting of the Tuesday Club, Prof. Frontis Johnston discussed “The New Balance of Power in Europe.” The
meeting was held at the home of Mrs. J. H. Hartness.

The Kill-Kare Club held its regular meeting Friday night in the Civic League Hall. Miss Bonnie Shelton was the hostess
of the evening.

FAUL AND CRYMES, INC.
SPORTING GOODS
Charlotte, N. C.
415 South Tryon Street

MONEY NO OBJECT

IF IT’S A QUESTION OF HEALTH

Since 1799 thousands of people have regained their normal health after years of suffering from stomach troubles of all types,
such as constipation, indigestion, gas, and sour stomach which are the basic factors of such maladies as high blood pressure,
rheumatism, periodic headaches, pimples on face and body, pains in the back, liver, kidney and bladder disorder, exhaustion, loss of
sleep and appetite. Those sufferers have not used any man-made injurious chemicals or drugs of any kind; they have only
used a remedy made by Nature. This marvelous product grows on the highest mountain peaks, where it absorbs all the
healing elements and vitamins from the sun to aid HUMANITY in distress. It is composed of 19 kinds of natural
leaves, seeds, berries and flowers scientifically and proportionately mixed and is known as LION CROSS HERB TEA. LION CROSS HERB
TEA tastes delicious, acts wonderfully upon your system, and is safe even for children. Prepare it fresh like any ordinary
tea and drink a glassful once a day, hot or cold. A one dollar treatment accomplishes WONDERS; makes you look
and feel like new born. If you are not as yet familiar with the beneficial effects of this natural remedy
LION CROSS HERB TEA try it at once and convince yourself. If not satisfactory money refunded to you. In order
to avoid mistakes in getting the genuine LION CROSS HERB TEA, please fill out the attached coupon.

Lio-Pharmacy, Dept. 1180 Second Ave., New York City, N. Y.
Gentlemen: Enclosed find $.................... for treatments of the famous LION CROSS HERB TEA. Please send me.........-......-.--
