SPECIAL PROGRAM IS CARRIED OUT ON FOUNDERS’ DAY

FOUNDERS’ DAY EDITION

The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

DEBATING TEAM IS SUCCESSFUL ON FINAL TRIP

Vol. XXII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., APRIL 10, 1935 No. 23

DAVIDSON DEBATING TEAM WINS ON NORTHERN TOUR

Smith and Boggs Defeat Rutgers Team and Lose 2-1 to Middlebury

BUCKNELL NON-DECISION

Very Impressed With Oxford System at Middlebury

The return of Robert H. Smith, Jr., and Wade Boggs, a Davidson debating team, from a Northern tour added further
laurels to this year's Forensic record. This week will also see a Davidson debating team meet Georgia Tech on the
campus, Thursday evening.

Smith and Boggs defeated the Rutgers team by a unanimous vote of the judges, were defeated 2-1 at Middlebury, and
fought a non-decision battle at Bucknell. A few days before leaving, this same team defeated Southwestern University, on the campus.

The debaters met Rutgers, at New Brunswick, N. J., on March 27 and debated Bucknell in Louisburg, Penn., the following
night. On April 3rd they debated Middlebury, in Middlebury, Vermont, taking the negative side of the query: “Resolved: That the
Nations Should Agree to Prevent the International Shipment of Arms and Munitions” in all three debates.

Their best debate, so the speakers state, took place at Middlebury, where they met their leading team, in the Oxford
System. This system calls for a ten-minute affirmative speech, followed by 15-minute negative, affirmative, and negative speeches in order. At
the end, the first affirmative speaker gets five minutes for rebuttal. They also report themselves impressed with the system of
judging at Middlebury, a college which has built a reputation for excellent debating for itself. There are three judges in
such a system and each debater is graded on five issues, given a possibility of ten points on each. The
points taken were (1) Evidence of complete understanding and analysis of the question; (2) Logic, soundness, and clarity of (Continued
on Page 6, Col. 1)

Students Scatter For Spring Recess

Student Body Touches Countryside from Maine to Florida In Ramblings

An immense bombshell, exploding in the center of the Davidson campus last March 28th, probably could not have more effectively
spread Davidson students over the countryside than did the coming of Spring Holidays at noon on that day. Throwing down
their books at the stroke of the gong on Thursday at 12:30, nearly 600 students began their migration. Transportation of
every conceivable variety (airplanes and roller skates excepted) was pressed into use. The thumbing corner was quickly populated and roads
from Davidson took on the appearance of one-way streets. By nightfall, a smattering of the student body was left to
stick out a five-day hermitage.

Practically all students within a 300-mile radius journeyed homeward. Many residents of Georgia, Alabama, and northern Florida also looked over
their hometowns. By Saturday, the Davidson student body was strung out from Massachusetts to Miami. Most notable among the long-distance
travelers were: Brad Reed, who bummed home to Boston, and John Siewers and “Dog Track Joe” Partridge who thumbed into
Miami Friday morning. Ab Price distinguished himself by setting a new all-time hitchhiker’s record from Davidson to Philadelphia—22 hours (2
hours better than the bus).

Society briefs for the weekend include: Cokey Branton visiting at the University of Tennessee—Jim Gilbert, Bill Northern, John Pierce, Ray
Richardson, Wally Tonissen, and Daymond Turner at home in Florida—Rig Dees touring northern schools—“Skinny” Stevens seen in a Washington night
club—Also (Continued on Page 6, Col. 4)

LEADERS FOR DAVIDSON—PAST AND PRESENT

WM. R. PERKINS 1837 —ANNIVERSARY —1935

William R. Perkins (left), adviser to the late Mr. Duke. Mr. James Buchanan Duke (center), founder of Davidson’s largest endowment
fund, whose portrait was recently presented to the college. Hon. Cameron Morrison (right), the speaker of the day.

MCLEOD CHOSEN TO READ YOWL

Scotty McLeod Defeats Tom Downie To Mix Humor Potpourri For Year

Scotty McLeod, of Brevard, N. C., was elected editor of The Yowl, the Davidson humorous magazine, in a student body
election held last Thursday. He defeated his only opponent, Tom Downie, by a slight margin of 69 votes. Treadway Purnell,
who served along with McLeod and Downie as managing editors during the past year, had withdrawn because of other pressing
duties about the college, and as a result, only one ballot was required.

McLeod is a member of the rising Senior class, and since entering Davidson College he has been active in many
phases of campus life. Besides his connection with The Yowl, he is feature editor of The Davidsonian and contributes an
interesting weekly column to it. The annual staff also takes part of his time. During the past season, he served
as one of the junior cheerleaders, being defeated in a close race several weeks ago for the coveted honor of
varsity cheerleader. He is a member of Kappa Alpha social fraternity and now holds the office of secretary. As one
of the Country Gentlemen, he takes a prominent part in its functions. He also belongs in the ranks of the
Spanish Club.

Downie, who is from Little Rock, Ark., is also a member of Kappa Alpha, and was recently elected as their
president for 1936. He is a sergeant in the R. O. T. C. unit and belongs to the Sigma Delta
Pi, honorary Spanish fraternity.

The Yowl, an outgrowth of the old Sanity Rare, The Chameleon, and The Davidson College Magazine, is published four times
a year, and acts as both a literary and humorous magazine to the college. McLeod succeeds Lorenzo McPhail who is
terminating a one-year career as editor of The Yowl. McPhail is also a member of Kappa Alpha social fraternity and
closes a successful year as head of this humorous magazine.

Charlotte Officers To Present R.O.T.C. Medal

The Charlotte Chapter of the Reserve Officers Association is going to present a gold medal to the outstanding graduate of
the Reserve Officers Training Corps at Davidson College. This selection is to be made by the professors of military science
and tactics of the R. O. T. C. department here, and one other member of the faculty who will be
selected later. The candidates or men to be chosen for this medal are to be selected on their own merits
and conduct in general while taking their four-year military course. The medal is very beautiful and unique in its design.
It will be presented to the winning man at the final parade of the year when commissions are received.

Science Students Visit Queens’ Club

Sigma Eps And Sigma Pi Sigmas In Program

About thirty students and faculty members, representing Gamma Sigma Epsilon and Sigma Pi Sigma, chemistry and physics fraternities, respectively, visited
Queens-Chicora College in Charlotte on Friday night, April 5th. This visit was a response to an invitation of the local
scientific sorority of the institution to these two clubs to present a program to their group.

Taking “Light” as a general theme of the entire presentation, the two clubs attempted to give phases of light as
related to the three general themes of science, biology, chemistry, and physics. In addition to these papers and demonstrations, the
recently-acquired talking picture machine of the two departments was taken and three films shown to the group. This was under
the direction of Professors Thies and Fulcher.

Miss Grace Hubbard, president of the Queens-Chicora club, started the program by introducing to the audience Mat Alderman, president of
Gamma Sigma Epsilon, who in turn took charge and, after a brief word of appreciation, introduced the participants of each
act. The program ran as follows:

1. A paper on “Biological Light” or light as emanated by the living world. The paper was a discussion of
phosphorescent organisms such as the lightning bug, etc. It was presented by Bill Bogart, president of Sigma Pi Sigma. (Continued
on Page 6, Col. 2)

BAND SECURES NEW UNIFORMS

Student Body Votes Half Of Damage Fee Towards Equipage Of The Band

The student body voted unanimously last Saturday to turn over one-half of each individual damage fee returned at the end
of the year to equip the college band with new uniforms. With these donations and funds obtained from benefit concerts,
the music department has made preparations for the ordering of these uniforms. The band itself voted unanimously to give the
entire sum of their funds toward the purchasing of these uniforms.

The band uniform, according to Professor Pfohl, has black as the predominant color, with red trimmings. The trousers are black
with red stripes on the sides, and the coat black, with red pipings. There is a “D" on the upper
left sleeve and another on the front of the cap, which is a Persian slouch type. A Sam Brown belt
puts a finishing touch on the uniform. It is, as yet, undecided whether the belt shall be red or black.

The music department is purchasing forty of the regular uniforms, one all-red uniform for the drum-major, and another of the
regular type, minus the Sam Brown belt, for the director. These uniforms will, in all probability, be in the hands
of the band members within a month.

Free Tea Dance And Bowery Ball Vie For First Honors

Jimmie PoynerAnd Band To Make Melody As Davidson Enjoys Last Set

“Th’ Bowery, th’ Bowery” is a song which rings louder and louder in the ears of Davidson's trippers of the
light fantastic as this weekend’s brilliant set of dances looms ever larger on the social horizon. Recollections of such novelties
as “Ants In My Pants,” and of other music in slower tempo, furnished by Jimmie Poyner and his versatile crew,
are still vividly alive from the Homecoming dances. Imaginative minds are busily at work on the important and exhaustive task
of thinking of something new in the way of a getup for the Saturday night disguise. Costumes! Costumes! Even the
Poyner boys will celebrate the occasion by appearing in ancient relics. This is the first time in the social calendar
that an orchestra consented to tune in costume. A cute little Virginia gal, who recently became associated with Jimmie Poyner’s
orchestra, will do the singing for the dance series. Put on the old gray bonnet or something as absurd for
one of the auspicious couples will capture the crown of king and queen of the “Bowery Frolics” at the gala
affair on Saturday night. Chaperones of the dance will have the colossal pleasure of picking the lucky pair. Costumes of
the Bowery need not be archaic, but the Pan-Hellenic president, Mims Rogers, earnestly requests that they be different, possessing individuality.
Only once in a great while does the Pan-Hellenic Council desert precedent to the extent of inviting all members of
the student body (and others attending one of the night dances) to a free tea dance. Yes, sir, absolutely gratis.
The set tickets are, moreover, within the reach of all and can be purchased at a very reasonable price. These
must be bought before Friday, however, or full fare will be required for admittance to each dance. The formal dance
will be held, as usual, in the Charlotte Hotel ballroom, after a departure from this custom during the Mid-Winter set,
when the crowd made it necessary to use the Armory for all three dances. The tea dance, as well as
the colorful affair Saturday night, which terminates the social activities at Davidson College for the season, will be at the
Charlotte Armory. It'll be a swell set, so dust off yer be-poil-grey doiby, grab yerself a nifty looking goil, an’
foller d’ crowds to d’ Bowery!

OBSERVES NINETY-EIGHTH ANNIVERSARY

DISTINGUISHED SPEAKERS JOIN COLLEGE OFFICIALS IN TRIBUTE

BAGBY LECTURES ON PSYCHOLOGY

Carolina Professor Addresses Psychology Classes On Inferiority Complex

Dr. English Bagby held an audience of two hundred students and townspeople spellbound last Monday night, speaking on “The Psychology
of Public Speaking” and interspersing his speech with brilliant humorous sallies. Dr. Bagby began his talk with the assertion that
experience was necessary for the best effect on an audience. Although an imposing appearance is a gift of nature, said
Bagby, the application of a few principles of psychology will add much to the effectiveness of the speech. “The message
should be suited to the audience,” emphasized the eminent psychologist. This is a much preferred method over the usual presented
“inducements to insomnia” by many speakers. The educational status and the average age of the audience should be considered in
choosing the topic. Bagby emphasized the value of being late to the hall. This has a more impressive effect on
the audience. “After a short introduction,” the professor advised, “walk to the rostrum and stand a few moments looking over
the audience. Commence with a striking statement that goes straight to the heart of the subject. The introduction should not
last over two or three sentences.” Dr. Bagby noted several danger points that should be avoided in public speaking. Among
these was prevarication—wandering from the subject—“It is a pleasure of no mean extent that I should be honored by your
presence, etc.” Another was the “apology.” The speaker must have something to say and remain master of the audience. Over-flourishing
gestures and any appearance of insincerity should be avoided, advised Dr. Bagby. “The message must rise out of an illustration,”
noted the professor, “and that illustration should be dramatic and somewhat obscure in application.” He advised care in the use
of humor. It may cheapen a serious point if indiscreetly used. One who plans to speak publicly very often in
his career should keep constantly in preparation by the use of a notebook in which to record ideas and vivid
illustrations. Dr. Bagby’s choice of subject, authority of manner and humor in style made him one of the best received
of the lecturers on this year’s program. He was (Continued on Page 6, Col. 6)

Schedule for R.O.T.C. Inspection Announced

The schedule for the spring inspection for the Davidson R.O.T.C. unit has been announced. The inspection will begin on April
25 at 8:30 a.m. At 8:30 the inspector will call on the president of the college, Dr. W. L. Lingle.
From 9:20 to 10:15 he will inspect the second-year basics; from 10:40 to 11:35 he will inspect the first-year basics,
and at 11:35 the second-year advanced students. Thursday afternoon he will inspect the first-year advanced men. At 2:10 he will
examine the records of the administration and will be given a complete theoretical report by the administration. On Friday, April
26, the officer will inspect the armory and the property of the Davidson unit and in the afternoon will review
all classes in tactical organization. In this inspection, the students will be reviewed while on parade, in a physical drill,
and in tactical organization. The inspecting officer, Captain Tom S. Brand, Infantry, will pay strict attention to the uniform appearance
of the students. One of the essential requirements of the inspection will be that all students wear tan or russet
shoes.

TO ITS PAST

Founder’s Day Exercises Honor Memory Of James B. Duke And His Endowment

HALF-HOLIDAY GRANTED

Hon. Cameron Morrison And Mr. W. A. Perkins Give Addresses

Davidson College, founded nearly a century ago with a few small buildings, elementary courses, and candle lights, paused on Founder's
Day, April 9, to pay tribute to its past. All departments of the college united in the celebration of the
occasion. The college band and many speeches occupied prominent positions on the program, and a half-holiday from study was declared
by the faculty. The Honorable Cameron Morrison, former governor and senator, from Charlotte, gave an address on the history of
Davidson well befitting the celebration. Mr. William R. Perkins, prominent New York attorney, was another one of the principal speakers
of the occasion. Speaking at 11 o'clock, he gave an address on the life and work of Mr. James B.
Duke, whose portrait was presented to the school for his thoroughly helpful work in the progress of Davidson College. Issuing
a warm welcome from the trustees of the Duke Endowment Fund, Mr. Perkins then enumerated the steady growth and progress
of Davidson College to the present day. Because one may, before buying food, examine it, or have an expert examine
it, while, in buying knowledge you consume it, and then hope to reap benefits therefrom, or go on your way
greatly harmed. Quoting Socrates, he warned of the difference between buying knowledge and buying food for one's body. Mr. Perkins
stated that the story of Mr. Duke's life “is one of the real epics of our country’s development, which all
should come to know and appreciate for its splendid contribution and profound significance.” Telling of the struggles of our pioneer
forefathers to establish a great free nation, Mr. Perkins then pointed out how great men like Thomas (Continued on Page
6, Col. 1)

Committee Chosen By Trustee Pres.

Seven Trustees Are Selected To Consider Student Dance Position

The trustees have recently made a definite move toward a decision of the question as to whether or not Davidson
dances would be held on the campus. This past week Dr. R. A. Dunn, president of the trustees, appointed a
committee of seven of the trustees to consider the petition to have dances on the Davidson campus which was submitted
by members of the Student Policies Union, and of O. D. K. The trustees who received notices last week that
they had been appointed to serve on this committee are as follows: Rev. C. R. Nisbet, Charlotte; Mr. Lunsford Richardson,
Greensboro; Rev. W. H. Goodman, Kannapolis; Mr. I. P. Graham, Cooleemee; Rev. W. C. Brown, Barium Springs; Dr. J. M.
Richards, Decatur, Ga., and Mr. S. A. Robinson, Gastonia. The petition to have the Davidson dances on the campus was
first started in October, 1934, and was backed by all the members of Omicron Delta Kappa, and over eighty percent
of the entire student body.

Nominations Made For Senior Class Officers

The nominations of the officers of the rising Senior class were held on Monday morning, April 8. In all there
were fifteen men nominated for the different offices. The following men were nominated for president: Cokey Branton, Henry Cathey, Mills
Taylor, Bob Lindsay, and Treadway Purnell. Joe Dees, John Pearce, Hank Loftin, Baxter Yarborough, and Prosser Morrow were nominated for
the vice-presidency. For secretary-treasurer, Sid Marsh, Billy Merchant, Joe Johnston, Gordon Smith, and J. B. Goslen were nominated.
