THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 20, 1935

PROF. CURRIE IS RADIO SPEAKER
Band, Vocal Quartet, and Organ Are Also Presented On Weekly Program

A talk by Professor Archie Currie on “Problems of Post-Graduate Study” was the main feature of Davidson’s weekly radio program last Friday night. The program began promptly at nine, “Philip’s Delicious Soup Time,” to the strains of the theme song “O, Davidson,” as rendered by the band. Another high spot on the program was “Rule, Britannia,” the national anthem of Great Britain and Ireland, which was presented as the second of a series of national anthems. “La Marseillaise” was played last week.

Professor Currie’s talk, lasting eight minutes, was especially concerned with the post-graduate problems of a struggling young lawyer. He dealt with conditions of the legal profession from the young lawyer’s point of view. Other band selections on the program were “Americans, We,” by Henry Fillmore, and “Them Basses,” a solo for baritones, trombones, and bass horns, accompanied by the band. The college quartet presented “Fairest Lord Jesus,” a Silesian folk song. An organ solo by Professor Pfohl completed the program. At nine-thirty, to the familiar words: “Your announcer, Gordon Brown,” Davidson College went off the air.

TRUSTEES ON DANCING IN 1931

Inasmuch as the ruling of the Trustees of the college in reference to dancing is under discussion, we feel that it is well for us to know precisely what the ruling is. We are, therefore, printing the action of the Trustees as copied from their official minutes. We take the following from the minutes of the meeting of the Trustees on February 18, 1931:

“C. H. Goodykoontz, President of the Student Body; Dan LaFar, President of the Senior Class, and Dean Rusk, President of the Y. M. C. A., presented to the Board a petition in which they asked that the student body be allowed to hold dances at the college. After hearing the committee, the Board went into executive session, and after considerable discussion the following committee was appointed, upon motion, to nominate a committee whose duty shall be to study the whole question and report to the June meeting of the Board: R. H. McCaslin, W. S. Royster and A. R. McQueen.

“The following committee was nominated and the nominations were adopted: I. P. Graham, chairman, J. A. Cannon, W. C. Brown, J. P. Matheson and C. E. Hodgin.”

We take the following from the minutes of the Trustees on June 2, 1931:

“The special committee appointed at the February meeting of the Board to study the question of granting the petition of the students of the college as to allowing dances on the campus made a report through its chairman, I. P. Graham, and the same was adopted as read:

“First of all, we recommend that the following reply be made to the students:

‘The Trustees of Davidson College wish to say to the students that after having given full and respectful consideration to their request they feel compelled to decline it. Davidson College was founded by the Presbyterian Church and is now controlled by fifteen Presbyteries of that Church. The General Assembly, which is the highest Court of the Presbyterian Church, has from time to time made deliverances calling upon its members to refrain from dancing. A number of the controlling Presbyteries have expressed themselves as emphatically opposed to having dances held at the college. Those who have followed the discussions of this subject in the papers must be convinced that there is widespread opposition to having dances at Davidson. We feel sure that the students of the college would not want the Trustees to take an action that would seem to be out of harmony with the deliverances of the highest Court of our Church, or in opposition to the wishes of the controlling Presbyteries.

“The committee of students that presented the request of the students to the Trustees stated that there were often serious evilsconnected with dances which are from time to time held in other places and attended by some of the Davidson students. This statement has troubled us very much. With this statement before us, we wish to call the attention of our students to an unusually fine paragraph in an appeal which our General Assembly in 1930 made to the young people of the Church:

"The General Assembly recognizes the subtle temptations presented through the appeals of present-day recreational and social life organized into forms which may readily lend themselves to abuses of unquestionably harmful character. Therefore, the Assembly calls Christian people, young and old, to a careful searching of heart and training of tastes, under the sought guidance of the Holy Spirit in these matters touching so vitally the personal and social life of professed Christians.

Recognizing the supreme authority of the voice that speaks, 'Come ye out from among them and be ye separate... Touch not the unclean thing,' we call upon our people to face squarely the issues presented by the complex life of today, investigate their true character, measure their power to quicken or deaden spiritual life, and arrive at character-making decisions which shall control personal attitude."

2. In the second place, we recommend that the faculty, with the above principles in view, take cognizance of the fact that groups of Davidson students do dance in other places, and that the faculty make such restrictions and throw such safeguards about them as shall, in the judgment of the faculty, be for the best interests of the students and of the college.

As Felix Sees ’Em (Continued from Page 4)

FLAMING FIVE

Those of you who read the Charlotte Observer are no doubt interested in the outcome of the Flaming Five contest that is being put on by Jake Wade, sports editor of the Observer, but how many of you have cast your ballots for those two “Flaming Wildcats,” Johnny Mackorell and Jim Morgan? It is our duty to support these Davidson aces and with the wholehearted backing of all the readers of The Davidsonian, they should be able to place among the first five. Mackorell, at this writing, is leading the field with 455 votes, but George Barclay trails by only five. Don’t let a Pennsylvanian get more votes than a good old North Carolinian and Wildcat. Furthermore, let’s put two North Carolina Wildcats on this select group. Jim Morgan merits a position among the five best athletes in the Carolinas, I’m sure. He has for three years been a star flankman on the Wildcat eleven, he ranks as one of the best centers on any cage outfit in the two states, and his superb performances on the diamond for the past two seasons is irrevocable. Mail your votes in today, and give Davidson the distinction of being the first school to have two men on this selection at the same time.

Professor P. H. Gwynn Speaks in Greensboro

Dr. P. H. Gwynn, professor of education and sociology, spoke in Charlotte to a group of workers gathered at the First Presbyterian Church on last Wednesday night. This address was followed on Sunday by a talk before a conclave of young people at the Church of the Covenant, in Greensboro.

Commencement Invitations
Fraternity Publications
1143 E. FOURTH ST.
K. D. WEEKS
Fine Printing
QUEEN CITY PRINTING CO.
Representatives
Visiting Cards
Personal and Fraternity Stationery
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

JOE WADSWORTH

Mildest smoke, the best-tasting smoke. You wonder what makes me different. I’ll tell you. It’s center leaves. I spurn the little, sticky, top leaves... so bitter to the taste. I scorn the coarse bottom leaves, so harsh and unappetizing. I am careful of your friendship, for I am made only of the mild, fragrant, expensive center leaves.