THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 27, 1935

The Davidsonian
Founded by the Class of 1916

1935 Member 1936
Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Printed by the QUEEN CITY PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate year.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879.

ARTICLES FOR PUBLICATION must be in the hands of Managing Editors by 4:00 o'clock p.m., Monday. Letters to the Editor are welcome, but all communications intended for publication must be signed.

LAMONIS BROWN Editor
R. P. MORROW, Jr. Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
Jim Morton Editor
Howard Ove Editor
Harold Sugg Editor
Daymon Turner Editor
Win Massey Editor
Harvey Glass Editor
Paul H. Editor
Tom Massey Editor
John Watt Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
Charles Mauze Circulation Manager
Birt Swore Manager
Bob Vance Manager
Hoke Robinson Manager
Birt Hitt Collection Manager
Bill Byerle Assistant Business Manager

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 27, 1935

Slothfulness casteth into a deep sleep; and an idle soul shall suffer hunger—Prov. 19:15.

We extend sincerest sympathy to the family and friends of Mack Little in this time of bereavement, and also to Oren Moore, Jr., and those who grieve with him in his misfortune.

PARAGRAPHICS....

Dr. Robert E. Speer, who comes to Davidson Sunday to deliver the Ott’s Lectures, is probably the most prominent figure to visit the Davidson campus since President Woodrow Wilson came back about twenty-five years ago.

Tomorrow afternoon, at Wake Forest, the Davidson grid warriors will bring to a close what has been a very successful season except for three defeats. One was inflicted by N. C. State, another by Duke, and a third by Carolina, which makes us wonder about the advisability of keeping these teams on our schedule.

LEND YOUR CRITICISMS...

When any new measure is introduced, criticism is, and should be, expected; otherwise grave flaws in such measures might be overlooked. In the case of the proposed amendment to the student body constitution, criticism will be gratefully received by the administration, in the hope that by means of such criticism the measure may be improved and made more acceptable.

First, let it be understood that the measure is entirely a product of members of the student body. The need for such a program has been apparent for some time, and the student government considers that it can do no greater service to the student body in general than the maintenance of such dormitory conditions as make for better living and studying conditions.

Second, the program was not worked out in an evening, but was the result of weeks of consideration. It received full consideration and approval of the student council before being submitted for student body consideration. Thus, in no sense is the measure being “railroaded” through.

Third, in regard to the section providing for the appointment of representatives on each hall, it must be understood that these men are not monitors or “watch-dogs”. It was thought that students would feel freer to take their complaints to a man on their hall whom they probably know, than to bring the complaints direct to members of the student council, with whom they might not be so well acquainted. Quoting from the original statement of the program, in regard to the hall representatives: “He is not, himself, responsible for the conduct of the men on his hall, but shall receive complaints from men on his hall, and shall then report them to the proper authority for investigation. In brief, the purpose of establishing such a representative on each hall is to facilitate the reporting of conduct which does not permit proper studying conditions to be maintained.”

Finally, the present student administration wishes above all to bring about a complete understanding of the program. When this is accomplished, criticism of the measure will no doubt assume a more helpful and practical nature. Those who already understand the measure, its purpose, mechanism, etc., feel that it fills a definite and rather pressing need.

Carleton B. Chapman

FORENSICS AT DAVIDSON...

There was once a time on the Davidson campus when “Junior Speaking” was no misnomer; when debates and presentations of the dramatic club were well attended, and the literary societies received full support; when the medal awarded in the annual declamation contest was a much-sought-after prize. To alumni whose college days saw a manifestation of considerable interest in histrionic and forensic activity, the attitude of indifference shown by the present student body would probably be more evident than to those of this college generation. But the fact is clearly realized when we consider the small audiences that have turned out for the dramatic productions. Each play given by the Red and Black Masquers last year served only to put that organization further in debt to the publishing houses; this, despite the fact that those who did attend the plays considered their time and money well spent. The only true interest shown by the student body was on the occasion of a play given in the late spring, when no admission was charged. The applause of those present seemed to indicate their approval, but the amount gleaned by the free-will offering afterwards clearly indicated that the audience was more liberal with its praise than its purse. Yet the club has no other source of revenue than that derived from the sale of tickets.

Many hours are spent in preparation for each production of the Masquers—not only by the actors, director, property men and stage assistants, but also by the faculty adviser.

The situation of dramatics is somewhat paralleled by that of debating—at least, in so far as attendance at debates is concerned. The record of these teams during the past few years has equaled, if not surpassed, that of any other team representing the college. In 1933, out of a total of twelve debates, five were won by Davidson, five were non-decision, and only two were lost. The record of 1934 shows a total of fifteen debates, with six victories, six losses and three non-decision. Last year, nine debates were won, three had no decision, and only two resulted in losses. The number of men who compete for places on the Davidson team compares favorably with that of other institutions—even those of much larger size. For example, at one of the universities in North Carolina last year, only eleven men competed for forensic honors, whereas at Davidson the contestants numbered twenty-seven. But the interest of the student body as a whole does not measure up to the activity and record of a few, among whom is the faculty director of debating, who has willingly devoted much of his time to the coaching and regulating of the teams.

The nature of Junior Speaking has so far deviated from its original purpose that last year members of that class advocated a change of name. The custom had its inception in 1896, when it was stipulated that each member of the class make a short speech before the student body. Student activity in literary societies has been on the decline for a number of years; the interest shown in the annual declamation contest has been so negligible as to render that event almost non-existent.

It is not the purpose of this editorial to imply that each man in the student body should necessarily emulate Demosthenes; a trip to Myrtle Beach, where one could test his voice and diction against the waves, with pebbles gathered from the Concord road in his mouth, would require more time than three cuts would allow; but it does seem that some means should be taken to foster more attention by the students in forensic and histrionic activity. A department of public speaking would not be amiss.

P. Y. Harlan

DAVIDSON OFF THE RECORD
By HAROLD SUGG

The Male Choir adds so much to Sunday Vespers that it alone makes the new Church system worth the change. The blend and balance of the human voice reach out and touch a more elusive instrument and transform Chambers from the familiar stamping ground of assemblies into a hushed haven... On the other hand, we wonder how some hymns are put together. They seem to be a mere jamming together of notes in a rhythmical revelation of an absence of spiritual feeling.

Dunbar and Daniels
Quips and Cranks Photographer
Raleigh, N. C.

Dear Sirs:

Not being connoisseurs of the art or cost of photography, but having only a vague idea that since the cost of the negative is covered in the Annual contract and since a large number of fraternity group pictures should be sold, we can only mildly protest (in true accordance with Davidsonian policy) that fraternity men are being unduly robbed in paying 75 cents for a group picture. Rather would we point to the fact that in this very hammock of tradition it has been the custom almost until the memory of man runneth not to the contrary that fraternity group pictures cost only 50c per.

And since this same protestation shall not increase the burdens of Jim Farley, nor be nailed to the church at Wittenberg, we can only hope that the clamor of the troubled, united in boycott, shall cause you to recede from this rank departure from tradition,

Yours for the pee-pul,
OFF THE RECORD.

And while letter writing is in vogue, someone should compose a plea for the relief of Lindsay and his boys, whose jackets fit as snugly as a freshman cap after the first rain. Our hearts weep for the Seniors and we hope that the Court of Control will allow them to remove the ungainly stigmas at least by March 1st. We may laugh at sleeves that barely round the elbow and howl at tails that predestine to be sat upon, but our merriment turns to bitter tears as we behold Ed. Wooten, “The Forgotten Man,” with no buttons. From now hence, the motto of Pres. Lindsay and his woe-begotten Seniors is “What the Blazes do we care!”

News reaches us that half the Freshman class flunked two or more subjects with the last report. Harbinger of that calamity was our discovery of one who unwittingly drank the gravy when the Boarding House was serving soup. And last week we came upon one of our dashing Peter Prep School boys with his cap turned backwards and...a brand new pipe in his mouth, standing by one of those fiendish pay-as-you-go telephones. We recognized him as one of Heinz '39 varieties of course, but there was something frustrated on his puzzled brow, an expression that indicated a wrong in his young life, like a bewildered dog when a slammed kitchen door has cut off the ecstasy of beef steak fumes and warm fires. So we came closer and, encouraged by our sympathetic interest, he said, “Gosh, I’ve been putting in nickels and turning that crank for 10 dern minutes and the dern thing ain’t paid off yet.”

Social Iliads and Odysseys of the week include a trip to Converse where Kappa Alpha held a chapter meeting. Brother Polk Moffett as a ride thumber was no bum and had to content himself with the wiles of Kings Mountain, and Bill Harris was elected President of Limestone College en route home. NCCW Sophomores pulled a big one over the weekend. Noting Editor Brown’s absence, we surmise that Miss Hashagen is a Sophomore. Hank Loftin, Wiley Bradley, Gordon Smith, Bill Yelverton, and Mokey Faison were in attendance. And Prosser Morrow, J. C. Crowell, Billy Hill, and Billy Higgins made their debuts in Virginia. Among the shorter sojourns, we find Jim Hodgin, Billy Archer, and Walter Dickson in Salisbury haunts, Tom Cameron looking for the camels in Camel City, and Leroy Martin and Alec Bowles entertaining two girls and nine chaperones at Flora MacDonald. In a still shorter sojourn, we might find Tred Purnell, John Pearce, and Bob Sours.

JETSAM—As modestly retiring as a fraternity newspaper... Defunct powerhouses: Sky Cline at Winthrop; Mich Arrowsmith at Lowe’s and Campbells... Midge Verble, booster: Crazy Water Crystals... New ODK men in lieu of keys should celebrate Thanksgiving with “ODK Keys Applied For” tags. Chief Big Tooth Armfield... Last week it was nine sisters in Charlotte; further backfire: another family of seven sisters. Did Hoax Robinson really go to the Square Dance Saturday?

AROUND WASHINGTON
By ARNOLD SERWER (Associated Collegiate Press Correspondent)

Washington, D. C.—After several unhappy months during which it took it on the chin several times from organized labor, made vain efforts to perform quickly some of the wonders its excess of ballyhoo led people to believe it would perform, and generally met reverses in formulating plans, the National Youth Administration is at last beginning to see a reasonable amount of light ahead. Its progress is still painfully slow, but there’s been enough progress made to make it worth talking about.

Figures compiled show that one phase of the NYA program, its student aid function, is operating nicely, with some 1602 colleges and universities providing 104,501 undergraduates with financial aid, besides extending aid to 4500 graduate students in 177 schools. This part of the program, continued by the NYA from the similar program of the FERA’s Emergency Education Division, surpasses from the standpoint of students aided the similar work done a year ago by the division. The general impression that the NYA program is mainly for young males is erroneous, especially in connection with student aid. Better than 50 percent of the students receiving such aid are young women.

The other sections of the program are not faring anywhere near as well as student aid. The huge nationwide project approved by the NYA to provide jobs for 200,000 young people at a cost of $22,000,000, is still and has been for some time on the desk of Comptroller-General McCarl. Opinion at NYA headquarters is that it will be released by McCarl very shortly, but no one knows just what that means. When put into operation, the project will employ 94,000 young people on local projects in public service capacities, 55,000 as “recreational leaders” in urban centers, 20,000 leaders for rural areas, 4,000 on public records, and another 15,000 will be given work as assistants in traffic checks, parole, and delinquency, sanitation, health, and welfare activities, leaving 10,000 for miscellaneous jobs. WPA wages will be paid on all the local units of this nation-wide project. It is thought that about 40 percent of the jobs planned will be suitable for young women.

Early hopes for an apprentice program whereby employers could be induced to take on young men and women and train them for skilled jobs, dashed by the opposition of organized labor, are coming to life again. In various sections of the country, labor, having gotten over its first fear of the unknown in the NYA’s apprentice plans, is withdrawing its opposition. Slowly the number of apprentices taken on by employers through NYA aid is mounting, while labor watches carefully to see how it works out. Probably one reason labor is now less suspicious of the NYA is because of the stand NYA officials have taken against the exploitation of young men and women by employers seeking to depress wages. Officials know of many cases in which employers offered work to young jobseekers at a miserable wage, which the jobseekers were willing to accept. In such cases, NYA placement people have strongly advised their young clients against giving impetus to future exploitation by accepting such wages.

Working with limited funds, some $50,000,000 with which it is hoped to give work, student aid, or educational facilities to three million youths on relief plus other young people not on relief, the NYA of necessity has had to remain a paper organization using available facilities wherever possible, “wangling” things by hook or by crook. Many of its weaknesses are directly traceable to lack of funds. Others arise from the fact that it is no mean task to find means whereby millions of young people can be given decent economic status in society when millions of their elders, many with superior training and skill, are unemployed. Aubrey Williams, NYA chief, states his position with admirable candor when he says forcefully: “As to private industry. We cannot hope to inject hundreds of thousands of new workers into an industrial machine which is still spewing out experienced workers.”

COLLEGIATE RAMBLINGS

GEORGIA TECH
Over 200,000 are expected to hear President Roosevelt at the Georgia School of Technology annual Homecoming weekend. In honor of the unusual importance of the occasion, the Board of Regents has granted to Georgia Tech two holidays in addition to the regular Thanksgiving holiday. Friday, November 29, the day of the President’s speech, and Saturday, November 30, the date of the Tech-Georgia football game, have been set aside as special days on which no classes will be held. Phil Harris and his Orchestra, with Leah Ray as soloist, will furnish music for dances sponsored by the Anak Society. The Homecoming edition of The Technique, Georgia Tech’s weekly newspaper, consisted of twelve pages in celebration of the event. Special bleachers are being constructed to accommodate the crowd coming to hear President Roosevelt speak.

DAD'S DAY
Approximately 500 dads of Mississippi State students will visit the campus this weekend for the Fifteenth Annual Dad's Day celebration. Classes will be discontinued in celebration of this occasion. The program will consist of a freshman pajama parade, Mississippi State College-Sewanee football game, and Dad's Day Dance.

RAMESES III
In an attempt, just before the recent North Carolina-N. C. State football game, to steal the Chapel Hill boys’ mascot, the ram Rameses III, the State students came out slightly the worse for wear. After resorting to what the university paper describes as “R.O.T.C. maneuvers,” they located the farm on which the ram was kept. But the students received a rather unpleasant reception upon arrival from a large black bull. After much difficulty, they chased their quarry down and made off—only to discover later that they had stolen an ewe. Rameses remained the property of the N. C. University students.

STUDENT’S “WHO’S WHO”
Three students were selected by the Presbyterian College (Clinton, S. C.) faculty to be entered in the national “Who’s Who Among Students in American Universities and Colleges.” The committee that is compiling this book developed the plan of an annual Who’s Who for the college students two years ago and published the first volume last year. No school can nominate more than one percent of its total enrollment. The qualities upon which students are nominated are character, scholarship, leadership in high standard of politics, athletics, and other forms of extra-curricular activities.

LICENSE PLATES
Olive and blue, Tulane university colors, will be the colors of the 1936 auto license plates in Louisiana. Plates for 1935 are purple and gold, L. S. U. colors, in honor of the seventy-fifth anniversary of the University. The late Senator Huey P. Long suggested the use of Tulane colors for next year as well as the L. S. U. colors for 1935.

COLLEGIANA
American brides and bridegrooms are getting younger. Men are marrying at an average age of 24.8 and women at 21.7. We don’t know what this proves. Yes, and statistics show that Vassar graduates have an average of three-quarters of a baby each... From 1906-1910, football fields were marked like checkerboards into five-foot squares. Probably the most unique scholarship in America is one offered by Hamilton College. Worth $500, it is open to men in America by the name of Leavenworth. Best known trick play in history was pulled by the Carlisle Indians in 1903, Pop Warner coaching. The ball was carried 105 yards through Harvard’s line tucked under a player's jersey. A prize of $25 will be awarded to a Carolina student who has collected the best library during the year... Approximately 30 dances will have taken place on the North Carolina campus by the end of the Thanksgiving holidays.

Following our valuable custom of making known all the newest philosophies of education, we introduce to you the latest course of study at the University of Wyoming (Laramie). It is a course in dude ranching. You study bookkeeping, botany, journalism, food purchasing, contract laws, and speech making. What! Nothing about how to appeal to the instinct of romance in beautiful, rich, eastern girls? Nothing about how to roll a cigarette with one hand, at full gallop? My goodness, it looks like a course of work!

Three universities in Chicago are sponsoring a university of the air to be broadcast over five local stations. An extensive four-year course is being planned for this novel university.