8 _THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 6, 1935

Rev. Peter Marshall Concludes Autumn Vespers

(Continued from Page 7)

was voiced by Robert Lindsay, to which Mr. Marshall replied that he was glad to be on the campus and
of help to the students. He then began to speak on the everlasting gospel. He said that Christianity was not
old but eternal: It is based on the everlasting Word, atonement, and need. The means for salvation are by Christ,
and there are no new fads. As for the world’s having practiced Christianity for nineteen hundred years, he said that
he did not think it had done so for twenty minutes. He made a final call to accept the love
of God by the one means, faith.

Davidson Plays Duke In Annual Gridiron Clash

The Red and Black squad, and Saturday the players should be in good shape. Duke’s two losses this season have
been somewhat forgotten in the 19-6 Tennessee comeback. The Devils outplayed the Vols, and every Duke man had a prominent
part in the tilt. Playing offense with excellent blocking and tackling and little deception, the Blue Devils excelled throughout the
game. Jim Johnson, and Ward were among the luminaries, mostly expected to star. The veterans of engagement may be sufficiently
warmed up by Saturday morning. Although they are favored, the Wildcats will make them fight for any score.

Southern Hero Was Professor In Old Davidson

(Continued from Page 7)

Hill and Jackson harbored a mutual feeling of friendship from then through the Civil War. Upon one visit of “Stonewall”
Jackson's to the home of his sister-in-law he found Professor Hill ill with an attack of grippe. It became necessary
for Hill to get someone to substitute for him in his math classes. It is believed that Jackson served in
this capacity for two weeks during the illness of Professor Hill.

This team was the first state champion team that Davidson ever had. They won the championship by defeating Carolina 6-0,
twenty-five years ago. A reunion of these men was held in 1930 at which time all of the living members
except two were here. Those who attended that reunion and Homecoming game were: Coach Floyd Simmons; Manager J. R. Barron
of Charlotte; Dr. DeWitt Kluttz, captain, Washington, N. C.; B. T. Neal, Chicago, Ill.; Rev. J. T. Pharr, Cass, W.
Va.; Rev. J. R. Phipps, Pollocksville; E. L. Booe, Kennedy, Tex.; Rev. Smiley Williams, Welch, W. Va.; Rev. W. A.
Nicholson, Pineville; W. M. Shaw, Fayetteville; J.C. Cushion, Huntersville; R. C. Hamer, Hastover, S. C.; Lunsford Richardson, Greensboro; S. F.
Erwin, Florence, S.C.; Eugene Alexander, Manchester; D. A. McQueen, Jacksonville, Fla; E. H. Graham, Goldsboro; Dr. H. M. Johnston, Statesville;
Dr. S. McCants, Winnsboro, S. C.; Quay Williford, Gastonia; Dr. D. A. Biggers, Rock Hill, S. C.; and Rev. W.
D. Wolfe, Pellico Plains, Tenn.

Philosophic Lecture To Be Given By Long

(Continued from page 4)

The last problem was that of value which one writer has called the greatest achievement in the nineteenth century of
philosophy. There are many different theories held by many people concerning values. One philosopher says that there are three divisions
of being, which are: the nature of one’s self, the nature of the world, and the nature of God. The
nature of one’s self is not known to anyone. If this problem is solved, a metaphysical problem will have been
solved. The nature of the world is thought by some people to be matter but these people are not able
to account for the mind and some think it is the mind but they cannot account for the matter. Dr.
Walcott defined the “unconscious being” as the poetry of the soul. The nature of God goes into theology and includes
the stream of consciousness. The second main problem was that of being. This word brings up the question of “what
does it mean to exist?” This enters somewhat into the field of metaphysics of which a good many people do
not have a clear conception.

Dr. Walcott closed his address by stating he hopes and thinks that the philosophy of today will be the common
sense of the future although the present philosophy is different from that of the past ages. Dr. Walcott was introduced
to the audience by Dr. T. W. Lingle, Davidson College professor of history. Dr. Lingle referred to Dr. Walcott as
one of his oldest and best friends. A graduate of many universities both home and abroad and also the author
of a number of popular books.

SPORTS STACCATO

(Continued From Page 3)

Facing a slightly heavier team the Wildcats expect to start much the same squad of fifty. Mr. Scoggins will have
cause to resent those words Saturday. Versatile Paul Pittman, often a surprise, will vie with “Ace” Parker for the laurels.one.
The Wildcat squad, after an easy win over Davidson, will be preparing for their next challenge. Prof. emphasized the need
to differentiate between immediate values and intermediate values. The week, filled with workouts focused on booting and tricky plays, saw
the boys full of spirit and now settling down for a hard grind.

Indications are that a large number of alumni will be present at the Homecoming game. These men will be seated
at a special table at the alumni luncheon and will probably have special seats at the game. The game will
be Duke's second Big Five contest and Davidson's third. Davidson is next with Wake Forest, and the whole game is
expected to be intense.

Cathey’s consistent work at tackle makes him valuable. Gene McEver, a former Vol star, is expected to drive the 'Cats
this week. Windham will be after the Wildcats following Duke's defeat. The game will be a test of strength and
strategy.

Davidson students and alumni are cordially welcomed at the Wooden Bowl Dining Room, 28 W. 5th St, Charlotte. The Southern
5c & 10c Store appreciates your patronage.

Among The Greeks:
PHI DELTA THETA: The usual feed was held Sunday night. Brothers Carlton Chapman, Johnny Allen, Dan Griffin, and Dennis Myers
went to Atlanta and Gainesville, GA, for the weekend. They attended the "Tech"-Vanderbilt game. Plans for a banquet for Homecoming
are being made, and a large number of alumni are expected.

SIGMA PHI EPSILON: The N.C. Epsilon Chapter celebrated its Founders Day with a program on Friday night. Professor Fulcher gave
a talk on the history of the fraternity. Alumni including Powell Majors, John Sample, Dr. Parker, and Ertel Gwynn were
present. After the program, fraternity songs were sung. Brother Wiley visited his home in Walker, and Jimmy Trotter visited his
home in Augusta, GA.

Alston Speaks On The Modern Mood:
Reverend Austin quoted H.G. Wells, "The youth of Great Britain and France are burnt out," to show how disillusionment affected
young people. Austin further stated that the youth of America are also disillusioned, feeling that their efforts, prayers, donations, and
preachings are futile. He emphasized that Christ conquered the world by releasing a new power for living, matching our fear
with great faith, confusion with satisfaction, disillusionment with energy for crusades, and selfish individualism with a model for living.

In a single day, people from ten different states visited our Chesterfield factories. 8,200 visitors during the past year saw
Chesterfields being made.

© 1935, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.
