THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 27, 1935

Dr. CUNNINGHAM LEADS VESPERS
President Of Louisville Seminary Speaks On “The Glory Of The Cross”

“Glory of the Cross” was the subject chosen by Dr. J. R. Cunningham, president of Louisville Theological Seminary, Louisville, Ky., for his vesper’s talk last Sunday evening. “The Glory of the Cross stands out as Lent approaches,” began Dr. Cunningham. He chose as his text, Galatians 6:14.

Three symbolic words are associated with the crucifixion of Christ: blood, Calvary, and cross. Blood is the precious fluid which Jesus shed while He hung suspended on the cross. Today it is an every-day expression. Cross signifies the method adhered to in murdering our Lord. We Christians of today associate two fundamental things with the word cross. Primarily, it is a clear portrayal of concern about our sins by Christ, for He announced His mission as coming to seek and to save. The death of Christ is therefore definitely connected with our sins. Herein lies one of the glories and evils of the cross.

“A second and no less important glory of the cross is observed in God’s extreme love for us. It is not God’s prevailing purpose to do justice but to love us. We could not resist His love if we could only understand how great it is,” continued Dr. Cunningham. He then quoted John 3:16, “God so loved the world that He gave His only begotten Son that whosoever believed on Him should not perish but have everlasting life.” Sometimes we wonder if God actually cares for us when some misadventure comes into our life, and we have a hymn, “Does Jesus Care?” is the real question.

Campus Dance Band Is Growing In Popularity

Davidson College, recently become a center for the production of classical music, now threatens to invade the realm of the popular with the advent of Chubby King and his campus orchestra. While adjectives describing the syncopation, rhythm, and harmony of this aggregation are in no wise small in number, Mr. King admits that no name has yet been selected for this collection of musicians.

Not yet being adept in the publication of well-prepared bally-hoo, King and his men believe that their style of music and growing symposium of popular numbers makes them the most popular orchestra in Davidson. The talented artists making up this orchestra are from all parts of the South. Curtiss Howard King, better known as “Chubby,” is from Greensboro, and quite skilled in the playing of the bass horn and the bass fiddle, having had experience with several orchestras playing at Greensboro, Carolina Beach, and other places. Moreland Cunningham, gifted trumpet and piano player from New London, Conn., played during his freshman year with Reeves Pope’s Southernaires. J. A. C. Robinson, known as “Buddy,” also played with the Southernaires, and has had much musical experience in playing almost any instrument. W. B. Crooks, Jr., or “Billy Battle,” formerly director of his own orchestra in Meridian, Miss., now plays the drums and tympani. His orchestra played for many college dances in Alabama and Mississippi. Oris Rolt, of Thomasville, Ga., is noted for his imitations of the Mills Brothers (vocally), which he can do almost perfectly. He also plays the clarinet and saxophone. R. B. (Dick) Wright, Jr. from Salisbury, is also a former orchestra leader, while he now plays the trombone. Bronston Kenney, from Frankfort, Ky., is the only one who plays the accordion. C. A. (Pete) McKnight, of Shelby, plays the trumpet and doubles with the piano, while his experience was obtained with an orchestra in Shelby. E. C. Wooten, from Cleveland, Tenn., has broadcast over the radio many times with a very well-known orchestra from Nashville and Memphis, Tenn. He has been playing the saxophone and clarinet for about seven years.

Sophomores Continue Managerial Duties

This issue of the Davidsonian is the last to appear under the 1934-35 managership, the new staff under the leadership of Lamont Brown taking over the control immediately after Spring Holidays. According to the policy inaugurated three weeks ago, the Sophomore members of the staff are in charge of the page make-up. The page personnel is as follows:

Assignment editors: Jack Branch and Harry Kuykendall.
First page: Ralph McClelland and John Winn.
Third page: Daymond Turner and Howell Overton.
Sports page: Harold Sugg.
Fifth page: Bob Lafferty.
Sixth page: Bob Stewart and Daymond Turner.

Around TOWN

The Sorosis Club held its annual open meeting in the Civic League Hall on Friday evening. Dr. Charles Robson, of the University of North Carolina, gave an interesting talk on Ireland. A musical program followed, in which Mr. William Wright, of Winston-Salem, rendered several violin selections and Mr. William Neal, an alumnus of Davidson, now of Winston-Salem, sang several Irish songs. They were accompanied by Mrs. T. A. Boaz.

Elizabeth Stewart is the name of the baby girl adopted recently by Dr. and Mrs. G. B. Watts. Mrs. Fred Fleagle, of Wilson, N. C., and Mrs. Leon Gooch, of Chapel Hill, are guests in the home of Prof. and Mrs. F. K. Fleagle. Prof. and Mrs. E. J. Erwin had as their guest during the week Mrs. Calvary is a word seldom used in the scripture, but it is an every-day expression.

Eumenean Literary Society Entertains Score Of Girls

The Eumenean Literary Society's red letter day of the year was celebrated last Tuesday, March 19, when a delegation from the Queens-Chicora society had charge of the program. The comely delegation, about 25 strong, arrived just in time to interrupt a solo by Ex-Secretary Joe Dees. The president of the visiting society took the president’s chair during the program. The presentation of the Queens society was varied in nature and was accorded much applause. First on the program was an imaginative original short story of the Orient. Following this were a group of sonnets, ranging from the pensive to the amorous, written by a member of the society. The high spot of the program came next when the visiting girls presented an unusual one-act skit of a French actress and her lover's disillusioned wife. The meeting was then adjourned to the Phi Delt house where the trio rendered several selections. Informal entertainment and refreshments followed. The Queens Society, numbering about 100 girls, is divided into four branches, the president explained. They are: dramatic, literary, musical, and poetic. Each group has about 25 girls. The local society, headed by Clarence White, James Salango, and Jim Morton, plans to give a return program on the Queens-Chicora campus sometime next month.Erwin’s brother, Mr. N. B. Browne, of Atlanta, Ga. The 1935 graduating class of Cannon High School, Kannapolis, has chosen Dr. Walter Lingle as their commencement speaker. The exercises will be held in the new high school auditorium on Rose Avenue, May 20, 21, 22. Dr. and Mrs. Price Gwynn and children were guests, during the weekend, of Mrs. Gwynn’s parents in Reidsville, N.C. Miss Jane Price and Polly Price, of Lewisburg, W. Va., have arrived in Davidson for a short visit with Prof. and Mrs. W. W. Wood. Captain and Mrs. Norton G. Pritchett and daughters, Ann Lee and Alice, spent the last weekend with friends at Woodbury Forest. Mrs. John Rhett and her guest, Mrs. George Goodrich, of Bedford, Penn., have returned from a two weeks’ visit in Florida. Mr. F. L. Jackson was one of the speakers at the dinner given Tuesday evening by the Concord Business Women’s Circle of the Presbyterian Church. Several of the Davidson Business Women’s Group attended.

PHYSICS CONFAB HELD LAST WEEK
Douglas, Fulcher, McGavock, Mebane, And Thies Attend Scientific Group Meet

A joint meeting of the Southern Mathematical Association, the Georgia Division of the American Chemical Society, and the Southeastern Association of Physicists was held in Decatur, Ga., last Friday and Saturday under the auspices of the Georgia Academy of Sciences. Agnes Scott College and Emory University acted as host to the convention. The following members of the Davidson faculty attended as representatives of their respective departments: Dr. J. M. Douglas, Prof. H. E. Fulcher, Prof. W. G. McGavock, Prof. W. N. Mebane, Prof. O. J. Thies. Members of the physics group met on Saturday only, but the work of the Mathematical Association occupied both days. Although this was the first meeting of the Association of Physicists, more than one hundred delegates attended from the eight southeastern states represented. And no less than twenty-seven papers were offered on various fields of physical research. Dr. Alexander Silverman, of the University of Pittsburgh, and Dr. A. M. Compton, of Chicago University, gave the principal addresses of the day.

Choosing as his subject, “Glass, An Indispensable Substance in Modern Civilization,” Dr. Silverman explained with illustrations the manufacture of glass and exhibited experiments showing the remarkable changes in color which the introduction of any foreign element will produce in it. An example of this latter effect was found in a sheet of plate glass which on one side acts as a mirror while appearing transparent to an observer on the other side. Of this, Dr. Silverman predicts, will be made the office doors of the future. He also showed an aluminum-backed mirror. This recently discovered type surpasses all previously in use and involves an entirely new process in mirror (Continued on Page 6, Col. 3)

Among the GREEKS

Sigma Alpha Epsilon: Brothers Joe Wadsworth, Jack Hellinger, and Grier Martin were house guests of the Carlsons last weekend and attended the dance given by Beda and Carl Carlson at the Greensboro Country Club in Greensboro. Others attending were Ed Armfield, George Matthis, Reid Bahnson and Scot Shepherd. Brother Henry Mills entertained the rest of the Theta Chapter with a small party and a “Push-it” ride afterward.

Kappa Sigma: Many of the Delta Chapter brothers were in attendance at the dance in Greensboro given by Carl Carlson. In all about four hundred people attended, with Bill Allbrook’s orchestra furnishing the music.

Pi Kappa Phi: A party is to be given Wednesday, March 27, for the brothers of the Epsilon Chapter at the lodge before the spring holidays. Work is nearing completion on the interior of the house and some improvements are to be begun immediately on the yard.

Sigma Phi Epsilon: Newly elected officers in the Epsilon Chapter for the coming year are: Martin Barnett, president; Jack Jenkins, vice-president; Pearson Hassell, secretary; Jim Knox, treasurer; Daymond Turner, historian; Wiley Bradley, Pan-Hellenic representative, and Jim Morton, marshal. The chapter will have its annual banquet at the S. & W. Cafeteria in Charlotte, April 27.

EXPECTANCY—Friends of Clyde R. Hoey, brilliant Shelby Democrat, expect him to announce his candidacy for Governor in the Democratic primaries of next year almost any day now. They will tell you that he can command at least 90 per cent of the votes of his native Cleveland County without even issuing a command. Still there are a lot of people who would like to see him run for the Senate against “Our Bob” Reynolds in 1938. Mr. Hoey is accustomed to making up his own mind and fighting his battles in his own way. The best thing to do is to watch him and his smoke and not pay too much attention to hearsay.

Aged Minister Dies At Home
Services For Dr. Cumming Held At Hopewell Church

The Rev. Calvin Knox Cumming, D.D., ‘81, brother of Dr. Hugh S. Cumming, surgeon-general of the U. S. Public Health Service, and a pioneer missionary to Japan for the Southern Presbyterian Church, who died at his home here Monday morning at 4 o'clock, was laid to rest at Hopewell Presbyterian Church, on the Beatty's Ford Road, yesterday afternoon. The Rev. J. W. Grier, of Huntersville, Dr. C. W. Summerville, Queens-Chicora College pastor, and Dr. R. S. Burwell, of Davidson, were in charge of the quiet funeral services. Many friends and admirers of the retired minister attended the ceremony. Dr. Cumming, who had been ill for about three weeks, was born at Hampton, Va., and was educated at the University of Virginia, Princeton, and the Union Theological Seminary at Richmond, Va. He entered foreign mission work 45 years ago, going to Japan. During the next 35 years he served in mission work at Nagoya, Gifu, Kobe, and Toyohashi, teaching in Presbyterian colleges at Nagoya and Toyohashi. Following his retirement ten years ago, he came to Davidson, and has resided here since. He is survived by his wife, Mrs. Ona Patterson Cumming, and two sons, Major S. G. Cumming, United States Marine Corps, and Dr. W. P. Cumming, a member of the English department of Davidson College, and by his brother, Surgeon-General Cumming.

Our Fine Materials and Expert Workmanship Make BUFF The Shoe Shop For Every College Man.
BUFF SHOE SHOP
DAVIDSON, N. C.

EFIRD’S DOESN’T MAKE STRONG STATEMENTS LIGHTLY
Efird’s never makes a strong statement lightly.

Here’s A Special Selection of $1.35 and $1.65 SHIRTS $1.00

Thursday-Friday-Saturday

We searched back through the advertising records of years, and we believe that seldom have we been able to offer such a remarkable value in men’s shirts. The group is composed of $1.35 and $1.65 shirts from regular stock as well as a special purchase of high quality shirts that we made especially for this three-day event. Included are white, solid colors, and the newest of the fancy patterns for spring. All sizes and sleeve lengths are here. Don’t miss this opportunity to stock up at a saving. We suggest Cheney cravats to complete your spring outfit.

Interwoven Socks
New patterns ... smart spring colors ... some with clocks ... all this quality and comfort with style. You’ll find them clever and long-wearing.

Manhattan Shorts
Manhattan shirts and shorts are shown in the newest colors combining comfort with style.

EFIRD’S MEN’S SHOP
STREET FLOOR