THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 13, 1935

HADI. PROGRAM FEATURES BAND, FRANKLIN: RIKER

Homecoming, Armistice, Football Season Honored On Davidson Broadcast

RIKER SINGS “DAVIDSON”

New Song Written By Instructor Honors Davidson Men

Davidson presented one of the most varied programs of the year last Saturday. It included the Homecoming celebration, the observance of the spirit of Armistice Day, and recognition of the football season which now holds sway on the campuses of the colleges of the country. Another important part of the program was the presentation of the piece entitled “Davidson,” by Franklin Riker. Mr. Riker is a teacher of voice at Davidson College and he has just recently composed this song, as he states it, “A complimenting tribute to the Davidson College men both young and old.” It was arranged by Professor J. C. Pfohl for the Davidson Band and appeared on the program last Saturday for the first time.

The program opened with the song “O Davidson,” played by the band and was followed by the song, “Davidson,” sung by Franklin Riker. In keeping with the celebration of Armistice Day “The Stars and Stripes Forever,” by Sousa, was played. The band then continued with the “Children’s March” by Goldman, and afterwards “In a Monastery Garden” by Ketelby. The trombone section of the band made a novelty selection of “Lassus Trombone” by Fillmore.

Grier Martin gave the “Campus News” in which he discussed Homecoming Day and other interesting news about the campus. Back to the celebration of Armistice, the band played the “American Patrol” by Meacham. The tribute to the nation-wide football spirit was displayed with a series of college football songs, namely: “Notre Dame Victory March,” “On Wisconsin,” “Wave the Flag,” of the University of Chicago, “Rouser—March,” of the University of Minnesota, and ending with “Dear Old Duke” as a tribute to the Homecoming game.

The program concluded with “Son of a Halfback” and “To the Military Band” by Yoder. This program is one of the most enjoyable that the college has put on the air. Again, the hour for this broadcast has been changed. It is now on the air from ten to ten-thirty o’clock on Saturday evenings instead of Friday afternoon from four until four-thirty. This makes the third time that the hour for the broadcast has been changed.

Study Is Made Of Student Expenses

An interesting study of student expenditures and sources of expense funds is being made by the class in economics five, which is conducted by Professor C. K. Brown. The statistics obtained in this canvass of about three hundred and fifty students will be compared with those of 1931. At that time the Student Body, which was smaller than at present, was found to spend over half a million dollars in the school year. The students were picked at random and interviewed by members of the class. The first question asked was the class to which the student belongs. Next asked was how much money was spent for tuition and college fees, room rent, board, clothing, traveling expenses, dues and fees to college organizations, and for miscellaneous purposes. The third question took in the sources of funds used to meet these expenses, whether they are to be (Continued on Page 6)

Student Store Display Contains Lost Articles

The Student Store has placed on display a number of lost articles that have been found on the campus. Carlton Chapman has gotten the Student Store to place in a showcase articles ranging from knives and keys to parts of R. O. T. C. uniforms. These things may be claimed by the students that they belong to by seeing Carlton Chapman in 31 Georgia.

The following articles are on display in the Student Store: One Freshman cap; one English book; one R. O. T. C. cap number fifty; two knives; two combs; one pipe; five pencils; two fountain pens; and one yellow sweater.

CINEMATIC COMMENTS

DAVIDSON THEATRE

Wednesday and Thursday, Nov. 13-14

BARBARY COAST

Presents Miriam Hopkins, Edwin G. Robinson, Joel McCrea and a fine supporting cast in an absorbing story of the gold rush days in San Francisco. Mary Rutledge (Hopkins) comes to the district from New York to marry a wealthy man only to learn upon her arrival that he has been killed in a roulette game argument by Louis Chamalis (Robinson), the vice lord of the district. James Carmichael (McCrea) brings the love element in by falling in love with Hopkins. Walter Brennan, the perfect dipsomaniac of the screen, steals scenes right and left.

Friday, Nov. 15

RENDEZVOUS

William Powell's best picture since The Thin Man. It is a story of wartime spies. It contains clever and subtle dialogue with Rosalind Russell and Binnie Barnes completing the cast.

Saturday, Nov. 16

WANDERER OF THE WASTELAND

A cowboy thriller typical of the usual run of Saturday pictures. An excellent entertainer for those remaining on the hill over the weekend.

Monday and Tuesday, Nov. 18-19

THE CRUSADES

A colorful epic of the familiar religious lore directed by Cecil B. De Mille in the typical De Mille manner. An ordinary story attempts to supply the love interest but you will enjoy the colorful pageantry and heraldic display. Loretta Young and Henry Wilcoxon co-star.

COMING SOON

En garde! A new slightly different interpretation of Dumas’ famous classic THE THREE MUSKETEERS and another Chan picture starring Warner Oland this time CHARLIE CHAN IN SHANGHAI a story of opium smuggling.

Lingle Commemorates Armistice Anniversary

The regular chapel service on last Monday morning, November 11, took the form of a celebration of the seventeenth anniversary of the signing of the Armistice which brought the World War to an end. Dr. Walter L. Lingle, the president of the college, spoke to the student body, reminding them of the great horrors and losses of war and challenging them to find a new, more intelligent, Christian way to settle international controversies. He said that this war was fought with two objectives in view: to make the world safe for democracy, and to end war. Neither one of these goals was attained, for the world today is much more autocratic and less democratic than before the war, and far more warlike than ever before in the memory of the present generation. He closed by reminding his audience that Armistice Day is set aside, not as a day to glorify war, but to glorify World Peace.

Commencement Invitations
Fraternity Publications
Fine Printing
QUEEN CITY PRINTING CO.
1143 E. FOURTH ST.
Representatives
Lamont Brown
Visiting Cards
Personal and Fraternity Stationery
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
R. P. Morrow

Major G. H. Roeder Speaks On New Sewage

Bacteriologist Discusses Efficiency Of System Before Sigma Pi Sigma

Major George H. Roeder, engineer in charge of the new sewage plant, spoke at the first open meeting of Sigma Pi Sigma last Monday night. Major Roeder did his undergraduate work at Rutgers, and then took his Ph.D. at Harvard. He then did the original research work for the medical department of the Rockefeller Institute of N. Y. in Bacteriology. He made a study of sleeping sickness and infantile paralysis. Because of his good work, he was chosen for an expedition to go up the Congo river to study these diseases. This was sponsored jointly by the Rockefeller Institute and the British Government. However, while he was in England preparing for this expedition the war broke out and the expedition was called off, and he enlisted in the British Infantry as an officer. He was then transferred to the French Artillery and was decorated with the Croix de Guerre in April 1915. He was transferred to the air service soon after this, and was a member of the famous French Escadrille. After this, he was transferred to the American flying service until the war was over. He then returned to this country and continued a study of sanitary engineering in which he had always been interested. Since that time he has made a specialty of this work.

Major Roeder pointed out that in installing a new sewage disposal plant, the two interests of the city and taxpayers were the cost of installing and cost of operating. He also said that the plant under consideration must be free from trouble in its operations, as the sewage cannot be shut off after the plant has once been started. He said that the plant which has just been installed here is as near perfect in these respects as has been developed. The speaker pointed out that contrary to the general belief that this matter is not very dangerous to the health of anyone who handles it. The disease germs do not live very long in this matter. The main problem of this work is to get rid of the solids. They are rendered stable so they can be used or thrown away. This is done by treating it with (Continued on Page 6)

Musical Services Are Featured At Vespers

The first of a series of Musical Vesper Services was held in Chambers Auditorium last Sunday night. James Christian Pfohl directed both the orchestra and the glee club, in their selections, while Carlton Chapman led the devotional exercises. Kenneth Scott opened the lovely services with an organ prelude, “Prayer From ‘Stradella,’” by Von Flotow. “A Mighty Fortress Is Our God” by MartinLuther was used as an appropriate chorale. After the invocation, chorale response, hymn, and chorale “Oh Holy Father” by Palestrina, Carlton Chapman led the audience as they repeated Psalm 23 in unison. Franklin Riker rendered two inspiring solos, “The Good Shepherd” by Van de Water, and “My Hope Is In The Everlasting” by Stainer, while Louise Nelson Pfohl added to the program with a beautiful piano solo, “Jesus, Joy of Man's Desiring” by Bach. A quartette made up of members of the glee club sang “Thanks Be to God” by Dickson, accompanied by the organ. A hymn, “Come, Holy Ghost, In Love,” prayer, benediction, silent prayer, choral amen, and the organ postlude completed the service.

* Disposal Plant

DAVIDSON USES MOVIE CAMERA
Athletic Contests Are Reproduced In Slow Motion

The Davidson football team has been able to see itself in action for the past two months through the use of a slow-motion camera which was presented to it by the Alumni Association. The pictures help the members of the team to find and correct their faults, improve their blocking, and perfect their plays. Coach Snavely at Carolina has been using movies for years to improve his teams and is a firm believer in the system. Davidson is the third school in the state to acquire a slow-motion camera. The four-inch lens which has been used this season (Continued on Page 6).

P. H. Gwynn Speaks At Church School Opening

Dr. P. H. Gwynn was the guest speaker at the opening exercises of the Teacher’s Training School of Shelby, North Carolina, last Sunday. He delivered an inspirational opening address to the religious leaders assembled in Shelby for instruction and training in the field of church work. A great many of the churches of this district have representatives in this new Training School. The Parent-Teacher Association of North Wilkesboro also invited Dr. Gwynn to speak to them at their meeting on last Tuesday evening. Dr. Gwynn has delivered several addresses and has been the guest preacher in several churches this fall. Only two weeks ago he delivered a series of lectures to the Presbyterian Training School of Norfolk, Va.

Band Renders Concert For Homecoming Grads

As a part of Homecoming Day celebration, a concert was played by the College Band before an audience composed largely of alumni and visitors. Coming at eleven forty-five between the freshman game and the Alumni luncheon, the presentation helped round out a full day. A special feature was the playing of “Davidson,” a new piece composed by Mr. Franklin Riker, voice instructor, who dedicated it to the college. The band arrangement was prepared by Prof. Pfohl, director of the band. Martial airs, in anticipation of Armistice Day, swelled a large part of the program, interspersed with novelty numbers. Included were “Military Band” by Yoder, “Introduction to the Third Act of Lohengrin” by Wagner, “Children’s March” by Goldman, “In a Monastery Garden” by Ketelbey, “American Patrol” by Meacham, “Lassus Trombone” by Fillmore, “Davidson” by Riker, and “O Davidson” by Shields.

GERMAN CLUB HOLDS MEETING

Delta Phi Alpha, honorary German fraternity, met at Dr. Vowles’ residence, Oct. 21. German songs were played by Dr. Vowles, and several members sang. President J. Hervey Ross welcomed new members and read part of the constitution. He also gave a brief history of the local chapter.

DAVIDSON THEATRE

WEDNESDAY AND THURSDAY, NOV. 13-14
BARBARY COAST RENDEZVOUS
With William Powell, Rosalind Russell, and Binnie Barnes

FRIDAY, NOV. 15
WANDERER OF THE WASTELAND

SATURDAY, NOV. 16
THE CRUSADES
With Loretta Young and Henry Wilcoxon

MONDAY AND TUESDAY, NOV. 18-19
G. Robinson and Joel McCrea

COMING SOON
CHARLIE CHAN IN SHANGHAI
Starring Warner Oland

T. W. Lingle Addresses Mitchell And Converse

On Monday, November 11, Dr. T. W. Lingle spoke at Mitchell College in Statesville. On Thursday evening, November 14, he will deliver an address at Washington and Lee University under the auspices of the International Relations Club. His subject will be “Political and Economic Conditions in Europe.” Dr. Lingle will give an address on the same subject during convocation hour at Converse College, Spartanburg, S. C., Tuesday, November 19. At 1:00 o'clock the same day he will speak to the Rotarian club of Spartanburg.

Among the GREEKS

BETA THETA PI: Held a banquet in Charlotte Saturday night, which was attended by the following alumni: Bill Brewer, Tommy Miller, Oscar Bethea, Billy Atwater, Jake Balsley, Bob Richardson, Latimer McClintock, and Johnny Martin.

PI KAPPA ALPHA: The following alumni were visitors to the chapter over the weekend: Bob Morran, Charlie Harris, “Buddy” Escott, “Buck” Mills, Blanton Little, Bruce Peabody, “Zeb” Long, “Dune” Johnson, Ke B. Shields, Jim Hurst, W. L. Patterson, Bill Regen, Edgeton, Williford, Powell, Gordon Scott, John Scott, George Bailey, Andy Little.

KAPPA SIGMA: A feed, attended by Ed Garrett, Fritz Byerly, Charlie Spencer, Ed Kuykendall, and “Wee” Thompson (both of them). Chapter paper soon to be published.

KAPPA ALPHA: Alumni guests over the weekend: Bill Walser, Gus Maynard, “Jeff” Robbins, Bob McCallie, Moffat McConnell, Bud Raker, Charlie Carson, Fred McPhail, Don Bailey, Lorenzo McPhail, Worth Sprunt, Phil Cook, Dewey Hutchins. After the game, a feed and open-house was held.

SIGMA ALPHA EPSILON: Alumni guests over the weekend: Reese Williams, Vareen Bell, Stokes Monroe, Nat Spear, Hugh McAllister, K. D. Weeks, Bob Kornegay, Nab Armfield, John Douglas, Bill Cely, Ned Dwelly, Arthur Ross, Bob Everett.

PI KAPPA PHI: Special supper was given for alumni and guests at Thompson's boarding house, Saturday night. The following alumni were guests of the chapter over the weekend: Hugh Yelverton, Bob Alderman, “Goof” Warren (Continued on Page 6).

ETA SIGMA PHI MEMBERS HEAR HARDING SPEAK

“Value Of the Classics” Is the Subject Of Greek Professor’s Address

JOHN WALKER PRESIDES

Harding Advocates Classics For Liberal Education

The regular meeting of Eta Sigma Phi, national honorary fraternity for students interested in Greek and classical literature, was called to order at 8 P.M. Monday, by J. M. Walker, president. After a brief business session, Dr. C. R. Harding of the Greek department, the speaker of the evening, was introduced. Dr. Harding began his talk, his subject being “The Value of the Classics,” with a plea for a continuation of the use of Latin in high schools. He further urged that the members of the organization, since they are in a position to emphasize the importance of these studies, bring every influence that might be at their disposal to bear in furthering this cause. In stressing the value of Latin, the speaker said, “Latin is to the various modern languages what the central nervous system is to the various sensory organs.” It is the foundation of Spanish, French, Italian, Roumanian, Portuguese, and other minor languages. It has been estimated that between sixty and seventy percent of our English words have Latin roots. In summing up this point, Dr. Harding said that English is simply modern Latin. Commenting also on the value of Greek, the speaker advocated at least two years as requisite for a liberal education. Quoting from an article which appeared in the Davidson College Bulletin several years ago, he gave a number of examples of the value of this language in acquiring any form of education. He closed his talk with a humorous account of the plight of the poor individ- (Continued on Page 6).

Cars for Rent
Gulf Gas and Oil
M. P. HENDERSON

MONEY NO OBJECT IF IT'S A QUESTION OF HEALTH

Since 1799 thousands of people have regained their normal health after years of suffering from stomach troubles of all types, such as constipation, indigestion, gas, and sour stomach which are the basic factors of such maladies as high blood pressure, rheumatism, periodic headaches, pimples on face and body, pains in the back, liver, kidney and bladder disorder, exhaustion, loss of sleep and appetite. Those sufferers have not used any man-made chemicals or drugs of any kind; they have only used a remedy made by Nature. This marvelous product grows on the highest mountain peaks, where it absorbs all the healing elements and vitamins from the sun to aid HUMANITY in distress. It is composed of 19 natural leaves, seeds, berries and flowers scientifically and proportionately mixed and is known as LION CROSS HERB TEA. LION CROSS HERB TEA tastes delicious, acts wonderfully upon your system, and is safe even for children. Prepare it fresh like any ordinary tea and drink a glassful once a day, hot or cold. A one dollar treatment accomplishes WONDERS; makes you look and feel like new born. If you are not as yet familiar with the beneficial effects of this natural remedy LION CROSS HERB TEA try it at once and convince yourself. If not satisfactory money refunded to you.

One Week Treatment $1.00. Six Weeks Treatment $5.00

In order to avoid mistakes in getting the genuine LION CROSS HERB TEA, please fill out the attached coupon.

Lio-Pharmacy,
1180 Second Ave., N. Y. City, N. Y.

Gentlemen: Enclosed find $................... for which please send me ................... treatments of the famous LION CROSS HERB TEA. Dept.