THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 4, 1935

LANGUAGE MEET HELD AT THE END
Professor F. K. Fleagle and Dr. G. R. Vowles Are Honored With Offices

PROF. FLEAGLE SPEAKS
Bailey, Erwin, Watts Are Other Representatives

The Eighth Annual Meeting of the South Atlantic Modern Language Association was held at the University of Georgia, Athens, Georgia,
last Friday and Saturday. Professor G. Bailey, Professor E. J. Erwin, Professor F. K. Fleagle, Dr. G. R. Vowles, and
Dr. G. B. Watts were in attendance at the various sessions.

Professor F. K. Fleagle, of the Davidson Spanish department, addressed the Spanish section on “The Historical Background of the Bridge
of San Luis Rey.” He was elected Vice-Chairman of the Spanish Section for the coming year. Dr. Vowles served on
the nominating committee for the General Session and was elected secretary of the Section.

Two North Carolinians will hold office for next year. Professor Sturgis E. Leavitt, professor of Spanish at the University of
North Carolina, was elected Chairman of the Session; and Professor C. C. Rice, professor of Romance language at Catawba College,
became a member of the Executive Committee.

The 195 delegates were the guests of the University of Georgia at a complimentary banquet held at Memorial Hall on
Friday evening, and attended a French movie, “Poil de Carotte,” as guests of the Palace Theater.

Christmas Vesper To Be Held Dec. 15

The annual Christmas vesper services will be held in the auditorium of Chambers building on December 15. The time of
these services has been changed to 6:45 in order that they may be broadcast over radio station WBT in Charlotte.

The program for these vespers is under the direction of Albert B. McClure, while the musical section of the program
is under the direction of Professor James C. Pfohl. Following the custom of former years, there will be no sermon
or address at these services; the central theme of the program will be the reading of the story of the
first Christmas from the Bible.

Interspersed in the story will be musical selections rendered by the Glee Club, the Symphonic Band, and the Salon Orchestra.
It is planned to have several carols sung by the Glee Club and a number of selections connected with Christmas
played by the two instrumental organizations. Franklin Riker will be the soloist of the evening. The auditorium will be appropriately
decorated giving an added touch to the services.

German Sport Staccato (Continued from Page 4)

September 19th, Duke at Greensboro; September 26th, State (undecided); October 3rd, Navy M. I. here; October 17th, Citadel at Davidson;
October 24, open;

Town TATTLE

The tenth grade of the Davidson High School had charge of the weekly chapel program, Nov. 27. The newly organized
junior orchestra played two numbers conducted by Warren P. Babcock. Soloists were George Withers and Edwin Shewmake, accompanied by Kenneth
Foreman.

Wednesday, Miss Martha McGavock, a sophomore at Converse College, spent the vacation with her brother and his wife, Prof. and
Mrs. W. G. McGavock.

Prof. and Mrs. Lewis Schenck attended the wedding of Mrs. Schenck’s brother, Mr. Nelson Myers, to Miss Jessie Hall, of
Wilmington, Saturday evening, Nov. 30. Mr. Myers is an alumnus of Davidson College and is now in business in Wilmington.

Miss Grace James was hostess to the Kill Kare Klub at its regular meeting Wednesday evening, Nov. 27.

Dr. C. G. Vardell, president emeritus of Flora McDonald, was the guest of Dr. and Mrs. C. M. Richards during
the Otts Lectures. Dr. Vardell was a classmate of Dr. Speer’s.

Mrs. Courtland Spotts and her children, of Dublin, Va., spent the weekend with Prof. and Mrs. Nelson Mebane.

Mr. and Mrs. J. R. Withers entertained Rev. and Mrs. William Patterson, of Clover, S. C., and Mrs. Jane Cheatham,
of Endicott, N. Y., at a family Thanksgiving dinner, Thursday, Nov. 28. Mrs. Patterson and Mrs. Cheatham are sisters of
Mr. Withers.

The Sorosis Club held its regular meeting Friday night at the home of Mrs. N. T. Smith. Mrs. Mattie Murphy
and Miss Hattie Thompson presented a program on “Faust.”

Prof. E. J. Erwin and his sons, Phifer and Edward, spent Thanksgiving with relatives in Atlanta. They were accompanied home
by Mrs. Erwin, who has spent several weeks with her mother.

Miss Julia Dupuy, of Greensboro, spent the Thanksgiving vacation at the home of her aunt, Mrs. Walter L. Lingle. Walter
Lingle, Jr., was also a guest during the weekend.

Mrs. J. P. Williams entertained at an informal tea Wednesday afternoon, in honor of Mrs. K. J. Foreman.

Mrs. F. D. Hobart has returned to her home after a visit of a few days with relatives in Garner.

October 31st, Furman at Greenville; November 7th, Carolina at Davidson; November 14th, Centre at Davidson; and November 26th, Wake Forest
at Davidson.

Of the games with the three new opponents, Navy, Furman, and Centre, something should be said of the latter since
it is possibly the least well known in the south. Coached by the famous “Bo” McMillan and called the “praying
Colonels” because it is a Presbyterian school in Kentucky, the school is notorious for its ability to upset larger grid
machines among which Harvard, Washington and Lee, and innumerable others have had the honor to be included.

Satisfied Customers Our Biggest Asset
OVERCASH BARBER SHOP

Davidson Theatre
WEDNESDAY, DEC. 4
RED SALUTE
With Robert Young, Barbara Stanwycke, Cliff Edwards and Ruth Donnelly

THURSDAY AND FRIDAY, DEC. 5-6
A NIGHT AT THE OPERA
With the Four Marx Brothers

SATURDAY, DECEMBER 7
ANNIE OAKLEY
With Barbara Stanwycke and Preston Foster

MONDAY, DECEMBER 9
I DREAM TOO MUCH
With Lily Pons and Henry Fonda

THURSDAY, DECEMBER 10
NAVY WIFE
With Claire Trevor and Ralph Bellamy

LIBRARY SHOWS SPEER BOOKS
Eighteen Volumes By Foundation Lecturer in Reading Room Exhibit

The Davidson College Library has now on exhibit a number of books written by Dr. Robert E. Speer, the guest
speaker for the Otts Lectures. Dr. Speer is the author of many books, eighteen of which are now on display.
The library has collected these books and placed them in the reading room for the benefit of those persons interested
in his writings.

Dr. Speer has written many volumes on various branches of religion, the church, and studies of the Gospel. He is
the author of a number of books on Presbyterian Missions and work in all the foreign fields. His wide scope
of subject matter also includes world politics, missionary leadership, problems, race relations, and Christ's leadership.

Those of his books that are now being shown in the Union Library are: “Christian Realities,” “The Master of the
Heart,” “South American Problems,” “The Man Paul,” “The Christian Man,” (Continued on Page 6)

CINEMATIC COMMENTS
DAVIDSON THEATRE

Wednesday, Dec. 4th
RED SALUTE

The students’ league and their turmoil between radical and patriotic opponents is the timely topic of this comedy-drama. Robert Young,
as a soldier, and Barbara Stanwycke as the girl he is in love with. Cliff Edwards and Ruth Donnelly support
the principals.

Thursday and Friday, Dec. 5th-6th
A NIGHT AT THE OPERA

This picture should be tagged “What a Night at the Opera.” Story involvesthe Four Marx Brothers and their antics in
securing financial backing for Allen Jones and Kitty Carlisle in an opera company.

Saturday, Dec. 7
ANNIE-OAKIE
A sort of melodrama starring Barbara Stanwyck and Preston Foster.

Monday, Dec. 9th
I DREAM TOO MUCH
Lily Pons, star in the French wing of the Metropolitan Opera, has finally been screened. Henry Fonda supports her in
the show.

Tuesday, Dec. 10th
NAVY WIFE
Navy nurse Claire Trevor is afraid of love and marriage because of her family experiences. When she does wed Navy
doctor Ralph Bellamy, a secret assistant from the intelligence department develops complications for her husband in the form of an
adventuress spy.

Among the Greeks

BETA THETA PI—The usual feed was held Sunday night in the chapter house.

PI KAPPA ALPHA—Professor E. Shewmake entertained six pledges Sunday night at his home. Brothers “Sky” Cline, Teeny Lafferty, Walt Dickson,
and Bill Snow went to Concord for the weekend. Brothers J. Horton and Bill Archer went to Albemarle and Salisbury
respectively for Thanksgiving.

KAPPA ALPHA—Brothers C. Mauze and R. M. Vance honored Winston-Salem with their presence. Brothers H. E. McConnell, C. B. Abell,
and T. E. Gladden, who went home for Thanksgiving, spent the holiday in Chester.

PI KAPPA PHI—Among the many who went home for Thanksgiving were Chandler Deyerle, the Covington brothers, R. L. Gish, and
W. M. Hill for Bluefield.

SIGMA ALPHA EPSILON—Brothers Armfield and Dick Johnson attended the Army-Navy game at Charlotte Hotel on Thanksgiving. Max Britton led the
dance figure at the ball held on Thanksgiving. Henry Eve weekended at Atlanta. The two Marchants, H. T. Mills, and
Kenneth Fryfogle were in Greenville, S.C. for Thanksgiving.

KAPPA SIGMA—Brothers Thompson, W. P. Nortleet, A. J. Stevens, and R. J. Wyatt attended the Wake Forest game and stayed
at Raleigh. C. Carlson, R. B. Lindsay, and H. M. Merrell went home for Thanksgiving.

PHI GAMMA DELTA—Among those who attended the Wake Forest game were Hill, George Sumner, the Cookes, and I. E. Stewart.
Brother Vogler, Jr., cheered the Davidson team on to victory over Wake Forest. Ganier and A. Q. Cooks went to
Greensboro for the weekend. Gene Vogler and Bob Stewart spent the weekend at Winston-Salem.

PHI DELTA THETA—Brother Ben Barnes, Davidson alumnus, and Al Howard of Georgia Tech were the guests of the chapter during
the past week. Miss Dora Allen represented the Phi Delts at the Army-Navy game. A large number of brothers attended
the Wake Forest game. The usual Sunday night feed was held.

SIGMA PHI EPSILON—Brother Harris visited Oxford for the weekend while Brother Jenkins went to Tarboro.

Phonograph Records, Pianos, Everything Musical
ANDREWS MUSIC STORE
North Tryon St.
Charlotte

Russell McPhail
WHITE DRUG CO.
Individual Attention
Prompt Service

CHRISTMAS CANDIES
Joan Manning

NO MATTER WHAT TYPE OF UNDERWEAR YOU PREFER—
YOU’LL FIND IT MADE
Quality and Service Is Built into Every
On Sale at All Good Stores at Popular Prices
P. H. HANES KNITTING COMPANY, Winston-Salem, N. C.

Bible Anniversary To Be Celebrated
Dr. Lingle Is Principal Speaker At Celebration

A special, inter-denominational service celebrating the four-hundredth anniversary of the publication of the Coverdale Bible, the first printed Bible in
the English language, will be held in the Armory Auditorium in Charlotte, next Sunday afternoon, December 8, at 3:00 o'clock.
Dr. Walter L. Lingle, president of the college, will be the principal speaker on the program. He will speak on
the history behind our English Bible. The Davidson Symphonic Band, under the direction of Professor James Christian Pfohl, will present
a 30-minute program of sacred music, beginning at 2:30 o'clock.

The Coverdale Bible was printed on October 4, 1535, and was imported from the continent during that winter. The text
of this version follows very closely the work of William Tyndale, an Oxford scholar who had made an earlier translation.
The second Sunday of December has been set aside for several years as Universal Bible Sunday, and the churches of
Charlotte are celebrating both the anniversary of the Coverdale Bible and Universal Bible Sunday in this union service next Sunday
afternoon.

The Best Work
The Right Price
BUFF SHOE SHOP
“Sudden Service”

Orchestra and Singers To Give Concert Friday

The Davidson College Glee Club and Salon Orchestra will appear in a special concert at the High School Auditorium at
Mt. Gilead, N. C., on next Friday night, December 6, at 7:30 o'clock. The organizations plan to leave the campus
at 3:00 o'clock that afternoon, visit the Duke Power Company's plant near Mt. Gilead, present their program, and return that
night.

DICK TO LEAD VESPERS

The speaker at the next Sunday evening vesper services will be Rev. A. W. Dick, pastor of the First Presbyterian
Church, Fayetteville, North Carolina.

“How I grew popular almost overnight”

“A little while longer and I would have been ruined socially... then I discovered Under-Grads... discovered that it was all
a matter of dress... that Under-Grads cost no more, but did important things to my appearance.”

$27.50 $29.50
Tate-Brown Co.
College Shop
Third Floor

MONEY NO OBJECT IF IT’S A QUESTION OF HEALTH

Since 1799 thousands of people have regained their normal health after years of suffering from stomach troubles of all types,
such as constipation, indigestion, gas, and sour stomach which are the basic factors of such maladies as high blood pressure,
rheumatism, periodic headaches, pimples on face and body, pains in the back, liver, kidney and bladder disorder, exhaustion, loss of
sleep and appetite. Those sufferers have not used any man-made chemicals or drugs of any kind; they have only used
a remedy made by Nature. This marvelous product grows on the highest mountain peaks, where it absorbs all the healing
elements and vitamins from the sun to aid HUMANITY in distress. It is composed of 19 kinds of natural leaves,
seeds, berries, and flowers scientifically and proportionately mixed and is known as LION CROSS HERB TEA. LION CROSS HERB TEA
tastes delicious, acts wonderfully upon your system, and is safe even for children. Prepare it fresh like any ordinary tea
and drink a glassful once a day, hot or cold. A one dollar treatment accomplishes WONDERS; makes you look and
feel like new born. If you are not as yet familiar with the beneficial effects of this natural remedy LION
CROSS HERB TEA try it at once and convince yourself. If not satisfactory money refunded to you. Try it and
convince yourself with our money-back guarantee.

One Week Treatment $1.00
Six Weeks Treatment $5.00

In order to avoid mistakes in getting the genuine LION CROSS HERB TEA, please fill out the attached coupon.

Lio-Pharmacy, 1180 Second Ave., New York City, N.Y.
Dept. Gentlemen: Enclosed find $........ for ........ treatments of the famous LION CROSS HERB TEA, which please send me.
