PAPER RECEIVES FIRST HONORS IN NATIONAL RATING

SENIOR CLASS ISSUE

The Davidsonian

FINAL ISSUE OF DAVIDSONIAN FOR YEAR IS RELEASED

Vol. XXII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., MAY 20, 1935 No. 28

FORT COMMANDS VICTORS UNIT IN COMPETITION

Company “A” Carries Off First Honors in Competitive Company Drill

D COMPANY, RUNNER-UP

Captain Thomas Brand Judge’s Annual Contest

Culminating a year’s work in military training, Company A, Cadet Captain Charles T. Fort commanding, carried off first honors in the competitive drill contest Monday, followed closely by Company D, commanded by Cadet Captain John Douglas. The contest, which annually attracts a large number of spectators, was pronounced a great success by local R. O. T. C. officials and by Captain Thomas Brand, the judge. Capt. Brand was the inspector at the unit’s inspection a few weeks ago. Praise was particularly given to the commanders of the two leading companies for the way in which they handled their companies on the field. Capt. Brand declared the judging very difficult and Major Rhett expressed himself as being proud of the entire battalion. Cadets First Lieutenants in Company A are R. M. Porter, R. O. Dees, J. H. Ostwalt, and B. C. Simpson. Cadets Second Lieutenants in the winning company are W. F. Brewer, J. R. Taylor, and J. K. Thompson. Coley Windham is First Sergeant and W. M. Archer, W. F. Bell, G. P. Erwin, W. I. Pearce, D. M. ERE, W. R. Taber, J. R. Hayworth, and A. W. Price. Company D, which kept in the lead to the last, had for First Lieutenants B. L. Rose, G. L. Green, R. L. Orr, and T. H. Sutton. The second lieutenants are C. C. Harris, F. R. Hillier, S. L. Jetton, and J. M. Smith. The Cadet First Sergeant is J. M. Hodgin, and the other sergeants are W. I. Brown, W. M. Beaty, J. L. Dees, A. A. Kuhn, C. B. Lewis, W. M. Taylor, C. L. Mann, and J. C. Cothran. The runners-up were second to appear on the field; for Company A, the winners were last to appear. The positions were drawn for by the company commanders. Each of the four commanders were maneuvering for number three position (to appear) for some reason known only to themselves.

COUNCIL PLANS BIGGER DANCES

Dollar A Month Scheme Will Insure Better Dance Bands in Future

The newly elected Pan-Hellenic Council members have already started to work on securing bigger and better dances for Davidson. Their plans for next year have been submitted to the nine social fraternities and are beginning to materialize. The plan which will secure the best orchestra available for the Davidson Mid-winter dance depends entirely upon the co-operation of the student body. With their co-operation, it will be possible for the council to obtain one of America’s leading orchestras and really secure “big-time” dancing for the college, stated “Cokey” Branton, president of the new Pan-Hellenic Council. The plan is that all students wishing to attend the mid-winter dances shall pay one dollar a month from September to January which will amount to five dollars in all. If at the end of this time the student finds he will be unable to attend the dance he will not lose any money because the tickets are transferable. The lack of co-operation by the student body from the first will only make the tickets higher because the council is determined to have the best possible dances at Davidson and is going to secure one of America’s leading orchestras which will make tickets higher unless all cooperate.

Leaders of Graduating Class ’35

Fred McPhail, left, of Charlotte, has been active throughout the year. Gordon Brown, pictured with him, was elected president of the class at a recent meeting. Brown’s home is in Hackensack, N. J. The two men are both members of Omicron Delta Kappa, honorary fraternity which recognizes leadership.

O.D.K. INITIATES SIXTEEN MONDAY

Fourteen Students, One Faculty Member, And One Alumnus Are Taken In

Sixteen men were initiated into O. D. K. last Monday night after the banquet in Chambers. Fourteen of these men were students, one faculty member, and one alumnus. The seniors initiated were Duke Glasgow, Charlotte; Charles Harris, Welch, W. Va.; John Newton, Gainesville, Ga.; James Morgan, Albemarle; William Ravenel, Charleston, S. C.; James Simpson, Athens, Ga.; and Joe Wadsworth, Durham. The juniors included Lamont Brown, Carlton Chapman, Talladega, Ala.; Harvey Glass, Richmond, Va.; Martin Barnett, Meridian, Miss.; Henry Cathey, Charlotte; Robert Lindsay, Winston-Salem; and Cole Windham, Gastonia. A very impressive formal initiation was held in the faculty room. The members then proceeded to the banquet hall where they enjoyed a supper of chicken and all the accessories. After the members were fortified with the food they were informed that the informal initiation was to be in the form (Continued on Page 3, Col. 1)

Council To Extend ’35 Rushing Period

1935 Rushing Season Deferred Two Days And Extended To Nine Days

The Pan-Hellenic council announces the new regulations regarding the rushing season for the coming year. Despite the long attempted hope for a longer period for rushing, the time has only been lengthened two days. The season will begin on September 12th and continue through the 21st. The season just past allowed only seven days of active rushing but the coming season will allow nine. Each fraternity will be allowed nine functions which may be had in any form desired. The council has also allowed two days after school begins before the actual rushing will begin. The period of silence will begin on Friday, Sept. 20th, at 10 o'clock and end on Saturday, 9 o'clock. At this time the rushes will do their pledging. It was formerly decided that there would be only five formal days in the rushing season, but after consideration the time was lengthened to nine formal days. This is an extension of two days over that of last year, but is still not as long as many people wished for. Several years ago, the season lasted two weeks, and many had hoped to return to this time this year. This plan was submitted to the nine social fraternities last Thursday and (Continued on Page 5, Col. 6)

Senior Statements Reveal Sentiments

Variety Of Interesting Remarks Are Made By Many Seniors

SOME REMAIN SILENT

Prospective Graduates View Past College Life

All eyes are focused on the coming exodus of the members of the Senior Class, who armed with a diploma go forth to face the Wilderness hoping to get along without Government or parental manna. Some will continue the scholastic grind and others will begin new work. Here’s what they say for themselves; that is, all who could be induced to talk:

Fritz Byerly: “What, is it 1935 already?”

Walter Creech: “The Davidson associations are remarkable.”

Oliver May Anderson, Jr., of Jackson, Miss.: “I do not choose to speak.”

William Edwards Atwater of Burlington, N. C.: “I do not have anything to say.”

Donald Bennett of Rock Hill, S. C.: “Davidson is a mighty fine place to spend four years. An atmosphere pervades the Davidson campus which cannot be found at any other place.”

Samuel Louis Bernardo of Barium Springs, N. C.: “I have enjoyed four pleasant years and have learned one thing. Keep your mouth shut and no one will know you are ignorant.”

Oscar W. Bethea of Reidsville, N. C.: “I hope to finish.”

Warner Dubose, Jr., Mobile, Ala.: “Four years spent in trying to swindle the powers that be out of a sheepskin.”

Thomas Oliver Duff, Chattanooga, Tenn.: “The best thing at Davidson is the boys. I favor a lot of changes in the present rules.”

Charles Taylor Fort, Barium Springs, (Continued on page 6, Col. 1)

TAM GIVES ETIG DAY

Smith and Hoover Receive Physical Improvement And Gymnastic Trophies

MONOGRAMS AWARDED

Dewey Hutchins, “D” Club President Conducts Program

Dr. Frank Graham, president of the University of North Carolina, was the speaker at the annual Athletic Day ceremonies in Chambers Auditorium during Chapel period Monday, May 13. Dewey Hutchins, “D” Club president, presided over the chapel program. The program was opened with a prayer by Dr. H. M. Moffett and scripture reading by Dr. W. L. Lingle. A. J. Potter announced the men who made letters in football, baseball, basketball, wrestling, tennis, golf, and track. The Freshmen who earned numerals in spring athletics were also announced. The “D” Club extended honorary membership to Captain Pritchett, “Doc” McIver, and Professor Beaty. The gymnastic award was presented to C. G. Smith, who had the highest number of points ever made at Davidson. Jerry Harris, of the Freshmen class, won the second and third respectively. Major Rhett presented the physical improvement medal to H. B. Hoover, who had shown the greatest amount of physical development during the year. Measurements of the chest, biceps, neck, thighs, and other areas were taken at the first of the year.weights, improvement in year calves, total and a gain of inches. The Decathlon to Earl Fritz Frasier and Byerley third award. Walt, Professor Blythe, Dickson was presented and Earl second. Frasier, Dickson, Byerley won first place. Professor Currie presented the intramural in class athletics. The intramural award, made each year (Continued on page 5, Col. 3).

Davidson Is To Receive Confederate Flag Mon.

The James Lane (Charlotte) Chapter United Daughters of the Confederacy will present a Confederate flag on Monday, May 27, in memory of the men who went out from Davidson from 1861 to 1865. Mrs. W. E. Massey, president-general of the organization, will present the flag. She will be escorted by Miss Mary Jane Massey, her granddaughter, and Mrs. L. B. Newell, president of the chapter. Mrs. S. L. Diggle will preside. The presentation ceremony will be held on the campus if the weather permits, otherwise in Chambers Auditorium.

Excellent Rating Is Retained By Davidson’s Military Unit

Davidson’s Military Unit received a rating of excellent in the annual proficiency inspection of the R.O.T.C. department, held on April 25 and 26. Details of the official report are as follows: Rating for theoretical instruction of unit, excellent; rating for inspection of whole unit under arms, excellent; rating for formations (discipline, set-up, promptness, etc.), excellent; rating for classroom conduct and courtesy, excellent; rating for general appearance (courtesy, conduct, and attitude of the students on the campus while in uniform: out of ranks), excellent; rating for close order drill, excellent; rating for tactical exercises and combat problems (including extended order drill), excellent; general rating (as recommended by the inspector, all preceding data being considered), excellent.

In the report, the following items were especially commended: the demonstration of practical machine gun work, the interest and conduct in the classrooms, and the interest shown in military training on the part of college leaders. The inspection was conducted by Captain Tom Brand, of the Infantry, representative from the Fourth Corps Area headquarters in Atlanta, assisted by Captain Gordon Day, of the Engineering Corps, and by Captain S. C. Boyette, of the Charlotte National Guards. Davidson has received the rating of excellent for the past six years, making this the seventh consecutive year. Each year this inspection is held to determine the rating of Davidson’s military unit. These inspections are held in all similar institutions where the regular form of R.O.T.C. is taught.

MUCH LOVED DAVIDSON PROFESSOR SUDDENLY PASSED AWAY THURSDAY

PAPER DELAYED

Due to a strike which occurred at the plant of the Queen City Printing Company on Monday morning, May 6, this company was unable to print the last issue of The Davidsonian. They were therefore forced to turn the job over to a printer utterly without experience in the printing of newspapers. Hence the paper, which made its tardy appearance on Friday, May 10th, contained numerous mistakes which would not have been found had the job been done by one more experienced in this type of work. This issue of the paper was printed by the Queen City press but was necessarily delayed until this date. The strike was due to conditions beyond the control of the company authorities, who have now secured workers to replace the men who walked out at the time of the strike. Thus it is that they were able to print this last issue of The Davidsonian for the year.

DAVIDSONIAN HONORS

Scores 675 Points Out Of 1000 To Take First Class Honor In Nat’l Meet

The Davidsonian was awarded first place in the first class college weeklies by the National Collegiate Press Association, during the past week. D. Weeks, past editor, and Lam Brown, editor, attended the annual meeting of the North Carolina Press Association held in Greensboro on Friday and Saturday, May 10-11. At that meeting, the national rating was made. In the national rating, the local weekly was awarded first class honor with a score of 675 points out of a possible 1000. The excellent rating was made up by Brown, editor-in-chief, and former sports editor.

Other managing editors of the past year were Paul Harlan, Harvey Glass, Tom Merchant, John Walker, and Martin Barnett. The Davidsonian was given high standing in regard to headlines, printing, and inside make-up, but was graded down on typography. The paper was also criticized for story padding, editorializing within the news story, and lack of continuity.

No Special Speaker Will Be Procured For Commencement Exercises

Summer School To Run For Six Weeks

Approximately Sixty Students Sign For Session Beginning On June 10

The Davidson summer school session will begin June 10, and will run for six weeks, ending July 19. The courses to be taught with the professors teaching are as follows: Bible, Dr. Lyon; Biology, Professor Thies; Chemistry, Dr. Gwynn; English 2, Professor Erwin; Economics 1, Dr. Brown; French A and 1, Professor Schenck; Geography 1, Dr. Porter; Mathematics 1, Professor McGavock; Physics 2, Dr. Douglas; Political Science 2, Dr. Currie; Spanish A and 1, Professor Blythe.

To date, about sixty students have enrolled for summer school work. To facilitate matters, those who are reasonably sure of taking summer work and who have not enrolled should do so at once. Only those courses will be taught for which six enroll. Dr. Gwynn’s course in Education deals with supervision and methods, and is designed for public school teachers who want a life certificate in teaching. Professor Fulcher will conduct a course in advanced physics, should there be enough demand for it.

The Davidson class of 1935 and the faculty of the College have recently announced the plans for graduation week and for commencement day. There will be no special speaker procured for the latter. The week will include meetings of the Alumni Councils and the Board of Trustees and other organizations. The schedule is as follows:

Tuesday, May 28: Executive Council of the Board of Trustees will hold its meeting.

Wednesday, May 29: Board of Trustees will meet at the college. This board consists of forty-nine members.

Saturday, June 1: The Alumni Council will hold meetings both in the afternoon and at night.

Sunday, June 2: Dr. B. Eb. Lacy, president of the Union Theological Seminary in Richmond, will deliver the Baccalaureate sermon. The Alumni Association will hold its annual meeting at 12:45 and will hold a luncheon. At the morning meeting or the luncheon, the members of the graduating class will be received into the Alumni Association.

Monday afternoon, June 3: The faculty and their wives will give a reception on the campus for the seniors (Continued on page 6, Col. 1).