DR. WALCOTT GIVES PHILOSOPHY LECTURE FRIDAY EVENING

The Davidsonian

ALENODA LUX U ORTA an Li LIBERTAS

DON’T MISS FINAL “Y” SERVICES ON THURSDAY NIGHT!

VOL. XXIII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., OCTOBER 30, 1935 NUMBER 5

SYMPHONY BAND OPENS DAVIDSON CONCERT

Bohumir Kryl’s Famous Band Presents Program of Varied Selections

SOLO PLAYED BY KRYL

Davidson Band Contributes One Number To Program

Kryl and his Symphony Band introduced the Davidson Concert Series with a concert on Monday night, Oct. 28, in the auditorium of the college. This famous band of approximately thirty pieces has earned itself a reputation in the United States for its remarkably fine interpretation of classical music. For the past few years, it has been touring the country, averaging more than one hundred concerts among the colleges and universities.

The Symphony Band opened its program with the overture to the opera “Bartered Bride,” by Smetana. In this piece, the woodwind instruments predominated, with the entire band joining in for the grand finale. This was encored by “Serenade d'Amour,” by Von Blom. A harp solo by Miss Ruth Templeman was the second number, the piece played being entitled “La Danse Des Sylphes,” by Godefroid. This was so enthusiastically received that the soloist was forced to play two encores.

Following this came Dvorak’s familiar “New World Symphony.” The selection was the symphony in E minor, consisting of largo and scherzo movements. Miss Nell Kinard, who has appeared with the band on its tours, followed the “New World Symphony” with the aria for soprano, “Voi Lo Sapete,” from “Cavalleria Rusticana.” Miss Kinard sang as an encore the popular French song, “Parlez Moi d’Amour.”

The last number before the intermission was a lively piece featured by the contrast produced. This piece, composed by Rimsky-Korsakov, was entitled “Capriccio Espagnol.” Following the intermission, Mr. James C. Pfohl, director of music at the college, conducted the Kryl band in the introduction to the third act of “Lohengrin.”

One of the highlights and most appreciated on the program was the cornet solo played by the director of the band, Bohumir Kryl, entitled “Carnival de Venice.” Kryl reached low notes impossible to most cornetists and managed to create the illusion during part of the piece of a cornet duet. The applause of the audience brought the director back to the stage, and he played Foster's beloved “Old Kentucky Home.”

The eighth number in the concert was the symphonic suite “Scheherazade,” by Rimsky-Korsakov, played by the entire band. An interesting part of this suite was (Continued on page 6)

Press Association Will Hold Meeting At Duke

Plans are now being made for the fall meeting of the North Carolina Collegiate Press Association, which is to be held at Duke University on November 7. The meeting will begin Thursday afternoon at two o'clock and will last until Saturday morning. No details as to the program are available at the present time. It is thought, however, that there will be a number of prominent newspaper men of North Carolina to make speeches.

The association will also discuss ways to arrive at a means for securing national advertising more easily. There are about fifteen colleges represented in this group which holds conventions twice a year, once in the fall and the next time in the spring. The spring meeting will be held at Wake Forest College. The officers of the association are: Lamont Brown, Davidson, president; Sarah Collins of Meredith, first vice-president; T. M. Jenkins of N. C. State, second vice-president; Elizabeth Yates of W. C. U. N. C., secretary; and Phillip M. Russell of Duke University, treasurer.

Phi Beta Kappa Bids Offered Two Professors and Five Alumni

Boulware, Cassell, McCaskill, Brown, and Fricker Chosen From Alumni

EIGHT SENIORS ALSO BID

Drs. Brown and Cumming, On the Faculty, Are Honored

The North Carolina Gamma chapter of Phi Beta Kappa announces the bidding of two members of the Davidson faculty: Dr. C. K. Brown, professor of Economics; and Dr. W. P. Cumming, professor of English. Bids were also offered to five Davidson alumni namely: Dr. James R. Boulware, Jr., of Lakeland, Fla.; Mr. J. L. Cassell, Concord; Mr. J. C. McCaskill, Washington, D.C.; Dr. J. S. Brown, Jr., Hendersonville; and Mr. A. F. Fricker, Birmingham, Michigan.

The Phi Beta Kappa organization was established in Davidson College in 1922 after many years of petitioning to the national headquarters. Before the charter of the organization was granted, the members of the Student Body, who were interested in scholastic work, organized a society called the Mimir Society. This organization was under the supervision of Dr. J. M. McConnell and was run on the same basis as the Phi Beta Kappa society now. The Mimir society had many members at the time when the national charter was granted and when the first bidding came about the number of members was too great to enable all men to receive the honor. Thus at the end of the year, many of the men who were the instigators of the fraternity were left without being bid due to their graduation.

The organization now is taking in these men who have had something to do with the Mimir Society and have not been bid to Phi Beta Kappa. The recent bidding of these alumni has been taken on the merits that were given to them through their work with the Mimir Society. Also, these men were given bids at the same time as the other students who were given bids last week but due to a mix-up with other honorary fraternity biddings, these names were omitted. The bidding of the Phi Beta Kappa last week included eight members of the (Continued on page 6)

New Sewage Plant Attracts Interest

City Installs Experimental Disposal System

The town of Davidson has led the nation in the installation of a revolutionary new type of sewage disposal plant, replacing the one which has been in use for a number of years. The old one proved inadequate when the college abandoned its own plant above the golf course and connected with the town’s system. When the old plant was condemned by the board of health, the town made a contract with the Bio Reduction Corporation for the new equipment. This Brooklyn company, since it plans to use Davidson’s plant for demonstration purposes, made the town a price which is just one-third of the actual cost of the installation, completed last week.

The contract provides for the use of the plant during a sixty-day trial period, after which it will be taken out at the company’s loss if it does not prove satisfactory, and if it does not prove of the approval of the county and state health boards. A unique feature of this method of disposal is that the residue, which analysis has shown to have a value of from six to twelve dollars per pound as fertilizer, is not wasted, but is used for this purpose. It was planned to begin use of the plant, which employs the same pipes as the old one, with an extension to the new place of disposal, during the first part of this week.

FIRST R.O.T.C. PARADE IS HELD

The initial parade of the year was held last Friday. Both instructors and cadet officers were well pleased with the showing made, and it was announced that hereafter the battalion will parade at the same time each week.

November 1st Is Deadline For Securing Licenses

November the first is the deadline for securing drivers licenses free of charge. Mr. A. J. Maxwell, State Revenue Commissioner, stated that after this date a fee of one dollar would be charged for a private driver’s license, and two dollars for a chauffeur’s license. A driver's license is necessary not only to the owner of the car, but to everyone who operates a motor vehicle. Application blanks may be acquired from any highway patrolman, at the department of Revenue, and at any branch office where license plates are sold.

PETER MARSHALL IS CONDUCTING FALL SERVICES

Atlanta Minister Leads Annual “Y” Revival Which Opened Yesterday Morning

INVITES CONFERENCES

Meeting To Last Three Days; Two Services Daily

Rev. Peter Marshall, who has been holding the Y.M.C.A. fall Vesper services here for the past week, will deliver his final sermons tomorrow in chapel and at the vesper meeting tomorrow night. The Vespers began last Tuesday night at seven o'clock and Rev. Marshall has also been making short talks during the chapel hour.

MASQUERS GIVE BROADWAY HIT

Local Actors Will Present “Whistling In the Dark”

The Red and Black Masquers are bringing the recent Broadway hit, “Whistling In the Dark,” to the Davidson campus during the latter part of November. The production of this play is under the personal supervision of Professor I. I. Erwin, and is being directed by D. F. Herring and W. F. Pierce. The part of the leading character, “Wallace Porter,” is portrayed in the local guild by H. W. Barrow, according to Dave Herring.

The play is a comedy with plenty of thrills attached to it. The story concerns itself with a popular writer of “crime” novels. He and his fiancée are out looking for a quiet house in the country wherein he can compose his next novel. They stumble into a vacant dwelling which proves to be the hideaway of a notorious band of criminals. Porter’s tongue becomes loosened under the influence of liquor and he boasts of his perfect murder plots, insisting that he can concoct murders that defy detection. When the gangsters learn of this, they hit upon the happy idea of having him plot the murder of their arch enemy, the Crime Commissioner. If he fails, the forfeit will be his own life and that of his betrothed.

According to Herring, this clever plot which the boasting young writer conceives, and which he promises will leave no clue, is one well worth knowing about. The cast includes J. Y. Wilson, A. T. Port, R. T. Peters, J. L. Dees, and H. W. (Continued on Page 3)

Seniors Are The HeaviestThe regularly allotted time for the chapel services was extended in order that Rev. Marshall might not be cramped for time while speaking. Special interviews for those wishing to confer with the leader of these services may be secured by making an appointment with Albert McClure. Rev. Marshall has been introduced to a Davidson audience before. He spoke in the Church, for Vespers and chapel last February, when he made a short stop here. At both of these meetings, Rev. Marshall was well received by both the students and the faculty. It has been the custom in the past to begin the fall services on Sunday and have them last through Wednesday of the following week. However, due to his inability to leave his own Church, the speaker could not fulfill these dates and thus the change took place. Peter Marshall is a native of Scotland, which he left about eleven years ago, after graduating from the University of Glasgow. Upon his arrival in this country, he entered Columbia Seminary in Decatur, Ga. After leaving the Seminary, he received his first call to the Presbyterian Church in Covington, Ga. From this pastorate, he went to the Westminster Presbyterian Church in Atlanta, where he is now situated. He has proven to be immensely popular among the people of that city. Rev. Marshall is well known throughout the southern Churches and is also prominent for his work with the young people of his Church and of schools and colleges. 

Juniors Are Close Second Freshmen Weigh More Than Either In Aggregate

The Seniors are the heaviest class in Davidson, but the Juniors are slightly taller. The average weight of the Seniors is 149.73 pounds, and their height averages 69.5 inches. The Centennials are 69.8 inches tall, taller than the Seniors, but weigh only 147.3 pounds per man. The Sophs trail the Juniors with 143.5 pounds per man, and an average height of 69.1 inches. The Thirty-niners follow a poor fourth with their typical man weighing 139.84 pounds and standing 67.18 inches in his bare feet. A typical Davidson man should be 68.8 inches in height and 145 pounds in weight, this being the average for the whole College. The Frosh are smaller this year than the class of ’36 when in the same stage of life. At that time, the present Seniors averaged 140.3 pounds in weight and 68.3 inches in height. The Frosh, in the aggregate, are practically five tons (4.9T) heavier than the Seniors; but, say the Seniors, “we can beat upon ’em, anyway.”

Hour Of Davidson Radio Broadcast Is Changed

The Davidson College concert band, assisted by Frank Tucker and Professor J. C. Pfohl, soloists, will broadcast at four o’clock Thursday afternoon over station WBT. After this, the programs will be heard in the evenings, probably Friday, at ten o’clock. The change had to be instituted as the present broadcasting hour interferes with the regular college activities. The Student Body, if rolled into one big pile, each man on the other fellow’s shoulder, would stack up so high, the man on top could look into the observation room on the top of the Empire State building, even if that building was placed on top of the Washington Monument, and the Normandie up-ended beneath the Washington Monument. The man on the bottom would probably be pushed several feet into the ground. Don’t everybody volunteer at once.

Picture Of Carnegie Is Presented To Library

A large portrait of Andrew Carnegie has just been presented to the Davidson College library by the Carnegie Corporation of New York in commemoration of the one hundredth anniversary of the birth of the famous philanthropist. The centennial celebration will be held on Monday, November 25th, the date of Mr. Carnegie’s birth. At that time, exhibits will be placed in the library and the portrait will be hung. In 1910, Mr. Carnegie donated $20,000 to the college library, the cost of the present edifice. In 1931, the Carnegie Corporation gave the Davidson library $15,000 for the purchase of new books.

Philosopher To Lecture Friday

Dr. Walcott To Speak On “Philosophy and Common Sense”

Dr. Gregory Walcott, Professor of Philosophy at Long Island University, will lecture in Chambers Auditorium on Friday evening, November 1, using as his subject, “Philosophy and Common Sense.” This is the first time that a Professor of Philosophy has been invited by the Lecture Committee to address a Davidson audience on a philosophical theme. This lecture is primarily for students and others who have never studied Philosophy, and the distinguished speaker will purposely strike a popular note, avoiding technicalities. Dr. Walcott, a graduate of Brown and Columbia Universities, was born in Lincoln, Rhode Island, in 1869. He received three degrees from Brown and Columbia Universities, and one from the Union Theological Seminary in New York City, a degree of B.D. After studying abroad, Dr. Walcott returned to Saylesville, Rhode Island, in 1901, where he was acting minister of a church for two years, and since 1929 he has been professor of Philosophy at Long Island University. Dr. Walcott is a member of various learned societies of this country and Great Britain, and the author of books.

Rev. F. H. Sells To Speak At Vespers

Johnson City Pastor Will Speak Sunday, Nov. 3

Rev. Frank H. Sells of Johnson City, Tenn., will be the guest speaker at the vesper service next Sunday evening, November 3. Mr. Sells finished at King College, Bristol, Tenn., in 1933. He went to Evangelical College, Dallas, Texas, and graduated there last spring. Since that time he has been assistant pastor at the First Presbyterian Church, Johnson City. On Sunday evening, November 10, the Music Department will render a sacred concert. After the concert, the following speakers have been obtained for the next six weeks: Dr. Henry H. Sweets of Louisville, Ky., will speak on November 10. Dr. Sweets is moderator of the General Assembly of the Southern Presbyterian Church. On November 24, Dr. Price H. Gwynn, Jr., of the Davidson College faculty will speak. Dr. Robert E. Speer of New York, N. Y., will be our guest speaker on December 1. The following Sunday, December 8, Rev. A. W. Dick of Fayetteville will bring us the evening message. The last service before Christmas Holidays will be conducted by the Y. M. C. A. in the form of a Christmas service.

WILDCATS AND BULLDOGS TIE IN GAME FEATURED BY SPECTACULAR PLAYS

Hall Contributes 65-Yard Touchdown Jaunt As Citadel Ties Davidson

PITTMAN LEADS ’CATS

Lafferty Skirts End For Wildcats’ Lone Touchdown

A fighting team of Wildcats smashed the Citadel Bulldogs relentlessly Saturday afternoon on Richardson Field, but the final whistle found the score deadlocked, 7-7. These teams also tied last year at Charleston. Davidson, led by versatile Paul Pittman, threatened time after time, but found the going too tough inside the Bulldog’s 25 to convert their drives into touchdowns. Their lone score came after Pittman returned a Citadel punt from his own 45 to Citadel's 14, when Lafferty on a reverse around his own left end scored standing up. Citadel's score came on a double reverse from Ferguson to McCreadie to Hall, who raced 65 yards to score untouched. Yarborough, Cathey, Pittman, Lafferty, and Williams led the ‘Cats; while Hall, McCreadie, Ferguson, Miller, and Captain Lowe were outstanding for the Bulldogs. A brief summary of each quarter is as follows:

FIRST QUARTER

Miller kicked off to Pittman who returned to his 15. After gaining 3 yards, Pittman broke loose around end for 25 yards. Following an exchange of punts, Lafferty dashed off tackle for 15 yards before stepping out of bounds. The ball see-sawed up and down the field with no outstanding gains until Pittman heaved Williams a pass good for 13 yards. Davidson threatened again as Pittman returned McCreadie’s punt to Citadel’s 38. After two short gains, Pittman passed and Miller intercepted for Citadel on his own 35. McCreadie punted out of bounds on Davidson’s 4, and Pittman booted a beautiful return punt of 60 yards to the Bulldog’s 35 as the quarter ended.

SECOND QUARTER

Citadel's offense was bottled up by the fast charging ‘Cat forwards, and McCreadie kicked to Verble who was downed on Davidson's 18. Pittman got 11 yards around end and kicked to Citadel's 37 where Henry Cathey made the tackle. On a reverse from Ferguson to McCreadie to Hall, Hall raced 65 yards through a broken field for the first score. McCreadie’s placement try hit the uprights but bounded through for the extra point. After several exchanges of punts, Pittman received a punt on his own 45 and returned to Citadel's 14. From this point, on the first play, Lafferty raced around his own left end for 14 yards and a touchdown. Pittman converted the try for extra point. After three futile smashes at Davidson's line, Citadel kicked to Pittman who was downed on his 40 as the half ended. Score: Citadel, 7; Davidson, 7.

(Continued on Page 6)

Tryouts For Debating Team Will Be Soon

Preliminary plans for the debating trips to be made in the early spring have been formulated by the Forensic Council. Tryouts will be held as scheduled, on November the fifteenth. The tentative plans are that there will be five debates on each of the three trips. One trip will be made to Florida, and will return through Georgia. The western trip will go to Tennessee and Kentucky through West Virginia and the Shenandoah Valley. The northern tour will go to Washington but no farther than Philadelphia. It has been definitely decided that each team will debate both sides of any question, and probably a secondary question will be added to the Pi Delta Alpha question. Material for the tryouts has been moved to room six in the library. The faculty committee on debating, headed by Dr. C. K. Brown, met last week and approved a list of schools to be debated.