THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 10, 1935

Davidson Observes 98th Anniversary

(Continued from Page 1)

Edison, Benjamin Franklin, and Abraham Lincoln, arising from very poor means, are to be compared with Mr. James B. Duke. Mr. Duke, born of sturdy stock, but of little means, was practically left an orphan in the hands of his mother’s relatives at the age of seven years, when his father was called into service in the Civil War. When his father returned the family “girded up its loins and went to work,” making and selling crude tobacco products; from whence has grown the immense tobacco market of today. “He created the Duke Power System, which ranks first in the South, and sixth among the hydro-electric systems in the United States.” Mr. Perkins stated that, in character, he sincerely believed Mr. Duke had no superior, and that, “undoubtedly the traits that most influenced Mr. Duke's life and work were his genius for constructive enterprise, his love and admiration for his father, and his deep and sincere religious convictions.”

Mr. Duke gave $40,000,000 in value at its creation and another $40,000,000 in value at his death to climax an imposing list of prior benefactions, among which Davidson College receives yearly amounts from these sums toward the upkeep of the school. Concluding his talk, Mr. Perkins stated, “No finer offering has been laid on the altar of devotion—no more fitting monument erected to a life worth while. It is a living fountain, whence flows care for the orphan, culture for the youth, healing for the sick, and the Gospel for rural communities. It is a sacred shrine where grateful posterity, contemplating this wonderful deed in calm and understanding retrospection, will reverently thank God for this masterly man and for our American ideals which made his accomplishments possible!”

Opening the program for the day, the College Concert Band played “Creation Hymn” by Beethoven. The invocation was then given by Dr. H. M. Moffett, followed by the presentation of the portrait of Mr. James B. Duke by Rev. Wm. E. McIlwain from Pensacola, Fla. Mr. Perkins then gave his talk on Mr. Duke, after which the band played the “Morning Hymn of Praise” by Safranek. A very appropriate address by Cameron Morrison was delivered at the conclusion of which the band rendered “Massachusetts Bay Tercentenary March” by Frazee. The morning was then concluded by Dr. Walter L. Lingle pronouncing the benediction.

At 12:45 o'clock the alumni and guests of Davidson College enjoyed a very delightful luncheon in the dining room of Chambers Building. The Davidson Motion Picture House showed a picture entitled, “The Trail of the Circuit Rider,” illustrating something of the origin and the beneficent work of the Duke Endowment after the luncheon.

Founder's Day meetings were held by many of the local chapters of Davidson College Alumni Association last Tuesday night in the following cities: Atlanta, Birmingham, Columbia, Concord, Fayetteville, Gastonia, Greensboro, Greenville, S. C., Jacksonville, Fla., New Orleans, and Philadelphia. The first official Founder's Day was held last year in anticipation of the centennial celebration to come in 1937.

Debating Team Wins Honor On Tours

(Continued from Page 1)

case presented; (3) Adaptability to the trend of the debate, freedom from previously prepared arguments which may have become discredited; (4) Delivery and (5) Understanding of the opposing case. Davidson was graded higher on points (1), (2) and (5) but lost on points (3) and (4). The time and place for the debate with Georgia Tech Thursday evening will be announced later. The same question will be debated but the side and team which Davidson will employ has not been definitely decided. Boggs’ and Smith's return brings to a conclusion the debating trips for the year. The home schedule that remains to be completed is as follows: Emory University, April 19; Hampden-Sydney, April 22 and Washington and Jefferson, April 27 or 28.

CARS FOR RENT

Gulf Gas and Oil

M. P. HENDERSON

Science Students Visit Queens’ Club

(Continued from Page 1)

2. A General Electric film entitled, “A Romance of Power.” This film, in two reels, depicted the various methods of work as it is exhibited over the entire world, contrasting muscle power and electric power. This film was written and delivered by Dr. C. M. Ripley of General Electric.

3. “Chemical Luminescence” was the subject of the next part of the program, being in the form of a paper and some demonstrations on the peculiar propertiesof a recently discovered compound which under proper conditions gives off a very striking light, a reaction in which no heat whatsoever is evolved. This was prepared and delivered by Ed Hodge.

4. Next, another General Electric film in one reel entitled, “The Modern Zeus” was shown. This picture described the powers of lightning and gave some very interesting views and a brief explanation of a modern laboratory in which this natural phenomenon is being produced artificially and its causes and effects studied.

5. At this time the physics phase of light was presented by a program from Sigma Pi Sigma in three parts:

Our Service Speaks For Itself
Visit Us Before The Dances
Norton’s Barber Shop

(a) A demonstration of vacuum tubes by Hub Powell and Bill Bogart, in which the various colors of different tubes were shown. Other interesting physical experiments were given by these two men.

(b) A highly colored demonstration of the properties and an explanation of high frequency alternating current was next, by John Douglas.

(c) The physics department closed their part of the program with some induction demonstrations by W. A. Parker, in which peculiarities of an electromagnet were explained.

6. The final feature was a Westinghouse film in a rather light vein, being an animated cartoon describing the making of a talking picture by the Westinghouse process.

WEST POINT
Davidson Theatre

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 10
ONE NEW YORK NIGHT
With Franchot Tone, Una Merkle, Conrad Nagel and Harvey Stephens

THURSDAY AND FRIDAY, APRIL 11, 12
“MISSISSIPPI”
Bing Crosby, W. C. Fields and Joan Bennett

SATURDAY, APRIL 13
REDHEAD
With Grace Bradley and Bruce Cabot

MONDAY AND TUESDAY, APRIL 15, 16
With Wallace Beery, Lewis Stone, and Maureen O'Sullivan

Students Scatter

Brent, who saw the sights in Florida—Gil Palmer and Bluebird Dixon who spent Friday through Sunday in Nashville en route to Memphis. Carl Rapin, Edward W. Groover who took in the night life of Davidson's, and Edward Wooten. Coley Windham with Bob Johnston and Jack Overall at home in Kentucky—Howard Dyer and “Dome” Patterson, aspirants to shaking the president’s hand, who did get to see the White House—“Big Six” Johnston and George Leukel who bummed (and walked) to Philadelphia—“Rev. Peter” Higgins and Tommy Thompson riding a banana truck to Florida.

Notable bumming trips were made by: “Hack” Sanders and the Greens, Bo Bagby Lectures on Psychology

Dr. Bagby, introduced by Dr. Davidson's psychology and education department. Dr. Bagby is a member of the faculty of the University of North Carolina, the men’s unit, and his manner of delivery illustrated well the subject matter of his talk. He spoke Tuesday morning to combined psychology classes and other interested students on the topic, “The Inferiority Complex.” This lecture was equally well received.

MADE-TO-MEASURE TOPCOAT OR OVERCOAT
Direct to you! Direct from maker to wearer! Direct from our wholesale tailoring shops! No middleman in the Strand way of doing business. Every fabric guaranteed all wool!

Strand Tailoring Co. Inc.
Baltimore, Md.
Represented locally by 414 WEST

It was a matter of pride with a host in Colonial days that his guests should smoke tobacco grown on his own plantation.

Today the Governor of North Carolina says to the Governor of South Carolina—“Have a cigarette”

People all over the world use tobacco in one form or another. They chew it, they smoke it in pipes, they smoke cigars and cigarettes, and here is what an eminent physician said about cigarettes: “I have been something of a student of cigarettes, and it is my belief that they offer the mildest and purest form in which tobacco is used.” Yes, nowadays the cigarette is the most popular form in which tobacco is used. A good cigarette certainly gives men and women a lot of pleasure.

Have a Chesterfield—
For one thing—they’re milder.
For another thing—they taste better.