THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 12, 1935

HONOR ROLL

Iverson, Tice, and Johnson picked as Frosh basketball stars by Gordon Smith

HONOR ROLL

Bell, Cothrane, and Squires chosen as soccer stars by Enid Bowers.

By HARRY KUYKENDALL

Amid the hue and cry of such post-season games as are held in Rose, Sugar, and even Tobacco Bowls, another potential thriller cannot be denied a place among immortal conflicts of history. This Watts-Georgia drawing power may lack the bunch compared with the above, but as far as spirit and enthusiasm are concerned, it ranks with them. While speculations are being made as to the outcome of this battle, it is evident that a football game is not the final word, as pre-game antics of all kinds are the best part. The outcome is not evident until the final whistle, and since this column is written on the eve of the struggle, it behooves the writer to present the facts as we have found them, if late appearance of this paper renders them insignificant.

The two teams, which have been practicing daily for the past week in the local stadium, have approximately the same number of men out, although Georgia has a slight edge. Of talent recruited from Intramural and Inter-fraternity football, Georgia also appears to have both quality and quantity. Perhaps you can recognize such men in the probable starting lineup which includes Bob Lindsay and Bill Archer, Ends; Bud Oakey and Joe McNabb, Tackles; Bob Sours and Bill Mickley, Guards; and Al Cade or "Goofy" Cooke at Center. In the backfield are John Partridge, QB; Joe Johnston and Walt Dickson, Halves; and George Hornbeck at Full. All these men are old hands at the game and outpoint Watts in experience.

These differences, however, are small as Watts also has some experienced men in their probable lineup which includes Bill Benfield and Bill Dyerle, Ends; Johnny Mosely and Sky Cline, Tackles; Charlie Hamrick and Rufus Wallace, Guards; and Dave Stocks at Center. The backfield, which makes up its weight deficiency in the line, will consist of Cokey Branton at Quarter, Addison Long and George Tipton, Halves; and Dave Sellers at Full. With this combination, anything can happen.

The coaching staff of "All-American" Johnson, "Sudden Death" Armfield, "Spearhead" Corbin, "Snozzle-Puss" Hunter, and "Ripper" Williams believe there is "safety in numbers," while "Flip" Cathey and Woody "three's a crowd." To deliver a few post-mortems on the past football season, we might quote a few lines from an article which Fred Blythe of the Faculty asked that we print:

"The team developed by our coaches this year has proved itself more successful even than the 1934 eleven. The line was stronger and charged harder, while the backs showed more speed and versatility in their offense.

"Out of nine games played this year, we lost only three, tying two and winning four. The tie games with the University of Virginia and The Citadel could have and should have been won by Davidson, had the Wildcats shown the same alertness that characterized their play in other games. Elon, S.C., V.M.I., and Wake Forest were subdued handily; while we lost to State, Duke, and Carolina only after heroic struggles.

"The 1936 schedule presents a formidable array of opponents, which will tax the skill and alertness of the Wildcats from the opening kick-off with the Blue Devils to the final whistle of the Turkey Day battle with the Demon Deacons. (We start, you see, with Devils and close with Demons.)"

ODDS n’ ENDS

"Six" Johnson was among the all-state grid warriors who were extended invitations to witness the Tobacco Bowl classic at Winston- (Continued on Page 6)

BIG FIVE CAGERS LOOK GOOD FOR COMING SEASON

Peabody, Quick, and Knorr Lead Candidates for Basketball Berths

The Davidson Wildcat cagers are hard at work in preparation for a stiff schedule against state teams. The 'Cats have been working out daily under the supervision of Coach "Flake" Laird. The main difficulty that Coach Laird has encountered thus far is the problem of replacing Jim Morgan at Center and Charlie Harris at Guard. Of last year's lettermen, we find Morris Peabody, Bill Quick, and Ken Knorr looking as if they are ready for starting berths. Wade Barrow, a Sophomore, seems sure to see lots of action this year as well as Lawrence Reid and Bill Kiesewetter.

The University of North Carolina has a real job on its hands in building up anything like last year's team. They have only four lettermen returning, and only two of that group were regulars on last season's team. The toughest assignment that Coach Walker Skidmore will have will be to replace Stuart Aitken, Jason Glace, and Buck Harris. The Blue and White went through twenty-five games with only two losses, and they amassed 828 points to their opponents' 606. Captain Jim McCachren, of Charlotte, Mel Nelson, Paul Kaveny, and Latch Webster will be the veterans that will likely be called on to form the backbone of the team that must defend its championship of the Southern Conference and the Big Five.

The prospects of the North Carolina State College team look about the brightest in the state. There are five lettermen returning who will in all probability be the regulars this year. Dr. R. R. Sermon, cage athletic coach and director, announced that the Pack would play twenty-three games which would carry them into Virginia and South Carolina only. Ten of the twenty-three games are to be played at Raleigh.

Prospects in the Blue Devil camp loom brighter this season than in many years. Coach Cameron will have seven men returning from the ten that composed the first two quints last year. Their schedule will carry them to West Point, Princeton, Baltimore, Washington, and Richmond. The first quint at present is as follows: forwards, Podger and Kunkle; guards, Huiskamp and Naktenis; and Cheek.

Davidson Matmen Will Meet Draper on 14th

Coach Unger's grapplers will make their initial appearance before the local fans here next Saturday night, when they take on the Draper Y.M.C.A. team. Coach Unger has been working daily with his squad since the close of football season and has developed a team that will stand up nicely to last year's team. The main problem that Coach Unger faces is the job of replacing two stars of his last year's State Championship team, Captain Charles Fort (175) and Lawrence Quarterman (155). There are now thirty men who workout daily under Coach Unger's supervision. The lineup for the first meet will be as follows: Blue (118), Davis (126), Parker (135), Owen (145), the 155-pound class man has not yet been selected, Blackwelder (165), Hodgin (175), and Goodman in the unlimited class.

The schedule for this season is as follows: Draper "Y" here Saturday, December 14; another Y.M.C.A. team between the holidays and the exam period (not yet arranged), then the collegiate season opens February 1st with Duke at Durham; V.P.I. at Blacksburg, Virginia, on Saturday, February 8; Appalachian State Teachers College here February 15th; North Carolina State at Raleigh, February 22; University of North Carolina here February 26; and Maryville here February 29.

According to Coach Unger, his grapplers will have a hard time defending their state title because each team will be "gunning" for that title, and a great deal depends on the performance of the veterans from last year's team. There are four of these lettermen on this year's team; they are: Captain Leroy Blackwelder, Frank Owen, Jim Hodgin, and Charles Parker. Coach Unger says that "none of these men should lose a match in the state this year." And too, a great (Continued on Page 6)

Promising Sophomores, Juniors Dominate Group of Ex-Prep Luminaries

Dick Johnson and Ed Armfield, recently elected captain and alternate captain respectively of the Davidson Wildcats, were both featured in the Chattanooga Times as being two of Chattanooga's fine contributions to major football in the south. Dick was conceded by most spectators and players as being the most valuable man on the Wildcat team. Ed Armfield has been invaluable to the team as a fine blocking back and a very good pass receiver. While Armfield is not the type of player whose name reaches the headlines, football fans and experts know that he is one of the main reasons why Davidson had such a successful season. Mentioned with Johnson and Armfield were such luminaries as Bill Spears, Herman Hickman, and Freddie Crawford, all of "All-American" fame. At McCallie, Johnson and Armfield played side by side as Armfield was then playing tackle. Pictured with Johnson and Armfield were Fletcher Sims, stellar sophomore Georgia Tech quarterback; Bill Faidley, ex-Baylor captain and guard now playing at Sewanee; Ruch, Sewanee back from Central High; Doug Simpkins, Vanderbilt back from City High; and Weeks, Virginia tackle from Baylor.Fred Gillam, Auburn tackle from City High; Perkins, Tennessee back from Baylor; Bill Jordan, Tech end from McCallie; Arnold Hederman, Mississippi College end from McCallie; Grady Williams, Tulane guard from McCallie; Otis Maffet, Georgia tackle from McCallie; Paul Campbell, Union College center from McCallie; Thayer Houts, Southwestern guard from City High. Others mentioned were: Stan Farmer, (Emory and Henry); Herman Adams (Tech); Andy Kelly, Leck Trew, Boots Payne, and Harlan Burnette of the University of Chattanooga. While Chattanooga has not made any runaway of all-star honors, with its prep stars in major college conferences, it is represented by some fine talent which has played some good, hard football. Recently, Chattanooga turned out three “All-Americans.” They are Bill Spears, Vanderbilt quarterback from McCallie; Herman Hickman, Tennessee halfback from Baylor; and Freddie Crawford, Duke tackle from McCallie.

Basketball Schedule Is Announced For 35-36

The following is the varsity schedule for the 1935-36 season:
Dec. 17, Lenoir Rhyne, at Lenoir Rhyne; Jan. 4, Carolina, at Charlotte; Jan. 8, Duke, at Winston-Salem; Jan. 11, N. C. State, at Davidson; Jan. 29, Catawba, at Salisbury; Jan. 31, Elon, at Davidson; Feb. 5, Lenoir Rhyne, at Davidson; Feb. 7, Wake Forest, at Wake Forest; Feb. 8, N. C. State, at Raleigh; Feb. 11, Duke, at Durham; Feb. 12, Carolina, at Chapel Hill; Feb. 15, Catawba, at Davidson; Feb. 17, V. M. I., at Lexington; Feb. 18, Virginia, at Charlottesville; Feb. 19, V. P. I., at Blacksburg; Feb. 22, Wake Forest, at Davidson; Feb. 25, Erskine, at Davidson.

Nineteen Wildcats Awarded Varsity D

Nineteen members of the 1935 Wildcat football team have earned the right to wear the coveted symbol of athletic accomplishment upon their justly proud chests. These winners of the “D” received the letter by meeting the requirement of playing in twenty quarters of the games of the season. (Continued on Page 6)

Stars Of Volleyball

Seniors and Pi Kappa Alphas Win in Individual Honors

With the Senior Class winning the inter-class competition and the Pikas winning the inter-fraternity title, the current intramural volleyball program has drawn to a close. The time for reckoning is now here, and Heath Whittle, “Mokey” Faison, and two representatives of the DAVIDSONIAN sports department have selected the following two aggregate all-campus teams.

ALL-CLASS TEAM
PLAYER CLASS
Wiause Sophomore
Parker, F. Senior
Lee, J. B. Freshman
Wuron Senior
Coll Sophomore
Benfield, W. A. Senior
Faison, Y. W. Sophomore
Barnett Senior

The seniors and the sophomores each placed four men on the above team, while the freshmen placed the only other man. Honorable mention goes to Kiesewetter, Sophomore; Carlson, Junior; Woodward, H. W., Junior; and Smith, C. G., Senior.

The voting for this group was very close, and the Pikas, who won the title, placed the most men, three. Honorable mention goes to Rainey, Phi Delt; T. E. Downie, K.A.; Y. W. Faison, S.A.E.; Cline, Pika; and Barnett, S.P.E. (Continued on Page 6)

What To Give For Christmas?

OUR SUGGESTIONS:
FOUNTAIN PENS
Parker Vacumatic Fountain Pens—$7.50 Value for $6.00
JEWELRY
L. G. Balfour Jewelry—$1.00 and Up

Seasons Greetings From THE STUDENT STORE

DAVIDSON SOCCER TEAM DOWNS CHARLOTTE CLUB

Coach McEver Goes To Conference at Virginia

According to his present plans, Gene McEver, assistant coach at Davidson, plans to attend the annual convention of the Southern Conference at Richmond, Virginia, next week. Professor F. L. Blythe, faculty chairman of athletics, made these plans public while discussing prospects for the admittance of Davidson to membership in the Southern Conference. For a number of years Davidson, Richmond University, and other small institutions have been seeking recognition into this body, and now that the conference has raised the limit of the number of members, prospects for membership appear very bright. While in Richmond, McEver intends to see Captain N. G. Pritchett, former athletic director at Davidson, who now holds the same position at the University of Virginia.

Kittens Drop Game to Charlotte Team As Iverson and Johnson Star

The Davidson freshman basketball team lost a practice game to Purol Pepsters Saturday, December 7. Ned Iverson, acting captain and Wildkitten forward, held high-scoring honors with 13 points in the 34-28 clash. Bean led for Purol with twelve markers from five field goals and two free throws, while Johnson, Davidson guard and forward, tallied eight points. The freshmen led at half-time by a 17-16 score after a successful rally, but loosened defense opened opportunities for Purol assists and goals in the second period. The Wildkittens fought with tenacity when they found themselves trailing 13-6 at the beginning and procured the lead for a time in the first half. Iverson and Johnson made three baskets apiece; Tice, forward, and Lee, center, both scored. Boyd sank a foul shot during the play. Early in the last half Johnson made two good free tries, but Bean immediately followed with two field goals to give the Purol quintet a lead they kept during the remainder of the game. The Wildkittens attempted to even the score up to the very end, but the 29-28 score was not enough.

Booters Stage Comeback After Losing Games To High Point and Duke

BELL IS WILDCAT STAR
Haak, Wilson, and Scott Show Defensive Ability

The Davidson soccer team staged a comeback here Saturday afternoon by defeating a strong team from Charlotte after dropping two games to High Point and Duke.

DAVIDSON vs. HIGH POINT

The Wildcats began this game as if to revenge the tie they had previously suffered at the hands of the Panthers, and kept the ball in High Point territory most of the first half. Although fighting hard, the 'Cats were unable to score as several breaks went against them. Early in the third period the Davidson backs repulsed a fast High Point attack, but their efforts were in vain when the referee awarded their opponents a penalty kick because of a foul. Culler, ace center forward for the Panthers, banged the sphere straight through the posts for the only score of the game. The Wildcat line had a relapse of form in the second half, but the backs stuck to their guns and stopped the High Pointers cold, except for the one penalty kick.

DAVIDSON vs. DUKE

As in the High Point contest the 'Cats began the game with a ferocious attack. However this time they would not be denied, and Bill Bell at center forward scored after Charlie Bixler had centered the ball from his right wing position. A few minutes later Harry Morris, left inner for the Dukes, got off a long run, but Goalie Haake caught his kick and made a good throw out. Failing, Duke halfback, stopped the ball and passed to Ambler, his center forward, who took it under his supervision and tied the score with a beautiful run and perfect kick. The Davidson line was unable to get started again, while Morris was making a goal in each of the last two frames, bringing the score to 3-1. Haake starred for the Wildcats with his many seemingly impossible stops and long kicks.

DAVIDSON vs. CHARLOTTE

Davidson kicked off and penetrated deep into Charlotte territory where the ball remained for the entire period. The playing was torrid on both sides and the 'Cats could not score until they were given a penalty kick because of a Charlotte foul. Bixler made the kick and booted the ball through one side of the goal just out of the reach of Hutchison, the Queen City goal-keeper. Bell, Bixler, and Armstrong promptly engineered another Davidson drive, which culminated in a score when Hutchison caught Bixler’s kick and was knocked head over heels through the goal by Bell before he could get rid of the ball. Early in the third period Davidson tried a corner kick which was successful when Vogler (Continued on Page 5)

WANT TO BE COUNTED IN?

The New Year’s Eve party at Hotel Charlotte isn’t being ballyhooed a whole lot. First, it isn’t that kind of a party. Second, there will be places for only three hundred and fifty people (people, mind you, not parties) at the celebration. But we do want Davidson boys and their best-girl friends to feel ever-so invited, and have opportunity to make reservations before all tables are assigned. Now’s the time; and how much more time there’ll be, we’re frank to say we don’t know. It seems sure that 350 tickets won’t last long. The price of the event (five dollars per person) includes a delicious supper which will be served from ten o’clock, the evening of dancing and carnival, favors and noise-makers and souvenirs—all the makings of a good time.

HOTEL CHARLOTTE