THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 27, 1935

YMCA PRESENTS GIFTED SOLOIST

Glee Club And Salon Orchestra Also Presented At Musical Vesper Service Sunday

The Y. M. C. A. musical vespers last Sunday night featured the talented soprano soloist, Mrs. Errett Straley of Winston-Salem. Mrs. Straley was assisted in this program by the Glee Club and Salon Orchestra. The program was opened by a prelude, Intermezzo from L’Arlésienne Suite by the orchestra, and this was followed by a hymn, and a prayer by Walter Dickson. Following the singing of Hear My Prayer, O Lord by the Glee Club, and the reading of the scripture by Wade Boggs, who had charge of the program, Mrs. Straley sang her first group of numbers which included: He Shall Give His Angels Charge by John Prindle Scott, and Lead Kindly Light by Godard. After an organ solo, Ach Bleib, Mit Deiner Gnade by Professor Pfohl, Mrs. Straley sang With Verdure Clad from The Creation by Haydn and the solo part of Sanctus by Gounod. Mrs. Straley was assisted in the singing of Sanctus by the Glee Club.

This is the third musical vespers that the music department and the Y. M. C. A. have presented this year. The first was early in the fall and featured the Glee Club and Salon Orchestra, while at the second, at Christmas, the Band, Glee Club and Orchestra were presented, part of the Christmas program being broadcast over Radio Station WBT in Charlotte.

WHEN YOU WANT TO MAKE UP AND DON’T KNOW HOW...

Copyright 1935, The American Tobacco Company.

Others may disappoint. I never do. I’m always mild, always

PRIZE WINNING PHOTOGRAPHS

First prize in the recent Photographic Contest, sponsored by the Davidsonian, went to Gordon R. Wood for his picture of Gus Maynard and his dog Kayo, taken on the golf course; second prize went to Graham B. Squires for his picture of Geddie Munroe, Cheerleader in the annual Georgia-Watts football classic. Third prize was won by John Abernathy. The entries were judged on their general campus interest and the quality of the photographic work.

New Officers Elected By Eu. Literary Society

The Eumenean Literary Society, on Tuesday night, February 18, elected new officers, as follows: J. C. White, president; Jimmie Salango, vice-president; J. T. Morton, secretary, and Knox Thompson, critic. These officers will be installed into office on the night of March 5, and will serve for a term of three months, i.e., to the end of this school year. Retiring officers are: Luther Shirey, president; J. B. Lindsay, vice-president; John Allen, secretary, and W. J. Livingston, critic. On Tuesday night, at the last regular meeting, Dr. C. K. Brown, professor of economics, was the guest-speaker.

AT THE LOCAL THEATRE

Wednesday, Feb. 27
SHADOW OF DOUBT
This is another interesting mystery with Ricardo Cortez and Virginia Bruce playing the leads. This picture has received favorable criticism.

Thursday, Feb. 28
THE GILDED LILY
In this picture Claudette Colbert plays the role of a working girl who wishes to marry a rich man. She refuses the newspaper reporter who wishes to marry her, and falls in love with an English nobleman.Without knowing that he is the one, he is called home, and after his departure, she becomes a famed singer. The reporter becomes her manager, and they tour Europe where she again meets the Englishman. They have a short reconciliation, but she discovers that the reporter is the one she loves.

Friday, March 1
WOMAN IN RED
Barbara Stanwyck gives another of her excellent performances in this picture. She is supported by Gene Raymond and Genevieve Tobin.

Monday, March 4
LIVING ON VELVET
This picture brings us another very interesting and entertaining trio, including Kay Francis, Warren William, and George Brent. This picture has received much favorable criticism and should be entertaining for all.

Fine to taste—because I’m made of fragrant, expensive center leaves only. Turn your back on top leaves. I do. They’re raw, bitter, stinging. Turn your back on bottom leaves because these coarse, sandy, grimy bottom leaves don’t belong in your smoke. Before I consider it worthy, every leaf must be a center leaf, mild, fine-tasting, fragrant. That’s why I’m your best friend.

SERVICE VARIETY HOTEL DAVIDSON QUALITY QUANTITY

CARS FOR RENT
Every haircut that we do is done with a great deal of interest because doing a thing right is our greatest advertisement.
Gulf Gas and Oil

M. P. HENDERSON
NORTON’S BARBER SHOP

Wildcats Down Deacons in Last Big Five Contest
(Continued from Page 4)
leaving Davidson alone in the cellar. Final score was 28 to 29, Wake Forest. The line-ups and summary:

Davidson
G F P
Harris, f 0 1 1
Ross, f 3 0 6
Knorr, f 1 1 3
Morgan, c 3 3 9
Cathey, c 1 0 2
Peabody, c 2 2 6
Windham, g 0 0 0
Quick, g 0 1 1
Total 10 8 28

Wake Forest
G F P
Morris, f 4 2 10
Brunt, f 0 0 0
Chappell, f 0 0 0
Patton, c 2 0 4
Clark, c 1 0 2
Hatcher, g 1 0 2
Total 13 8 29

Score at half: Davidson 15, Wake Forest 13.
Officials: Berard and Hendrickson.

Coming as an even greater surprise and involving one of the most publicized quints in the state, was the Wildcat win over State’s Red Terrors by a 39 to 28 count. State's playing improved in the second half, but they were never able to keep pace with the Wildcat attack which clicked smoothly throughout the game. With this unexpected victory, the ‘Cats again found Wake Forest as a cellmate at the bottom of the ladder. The line-ups and summary:

State
G F P
Lambeth, f 2 0 4
R. Harris, f 0 0 0
Aycock, f 2 0 4
Flythe, c 4 1 9
S. Womble, c 0 0 0
Rex, c 1 2 4
Hockfield, g 1 0 2
C. Womble, g 0 0 0
Total 12 4 28

Davidson
G F P
C. Harris, f 6 0 12
Knorr, f 0 4 4
Peabody, f 0 0 0
Ross, f 0 0 0
Morgan, c 4 4 12
Quick, c 2 0 4
Cathey, c 1 0 2
Dixon, c 0 0 0
Total 15 9 39

Score at half: Davidson 16, State 8.
Officials: Knight, Gerard.