THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 30, 1935

The Davidsonian

Founded by the Class of 1915

1935 Member: 1936 Associated Collegiate Press Distributor of Collegiate Digest

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

Printed by the QUEEN CITY PRINTING COMPANY Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES Ten cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate year. Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson,
North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879.

ARTICLES FOR PUBLICATION must be in the hands of Managing Editors by 4:00 o'clock p.m., Saturday. Letters to the Editor
are welcome, but all communications intended for publication must be signed.

LAMONT BROWN .......... Editor R. P. MORROW, Jr. .... Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
Morton Howett ........ Managing Editor
Harold Sugg ............ Managing Editor
Raymond Turner ....... Managing Editor
John Winn ............. Managing Editor
Mark Weinkendall ...... Sports Editor
Martin Barnett ......... Associate Editor
Harvey Ghass .......... Associate Editor
Paul Hartman .......... Associate Editor
Tom Marchant .......... Associate Editor
John Walker ........... Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
Charles Emanuely ...... Circulation Manager
Billie Worbus .......... Circulation Manager
Bob Branch ............ Circulation Manager
Hoke Robinson ......... Advertising Manager
Bill McGaw ............ Collection Manager
Bill Dyerle ............ Assistant Business Manager

"Give instruction to a wise man, and he will be yet wiser; teach a just man and he will increase
in learning." — Prov. 9:9.

We express sincerest sympathy to A. C. Adams and J. W. Lipstreu, in the recent death of their fathers.

PARAGRAPHICS....
Reverend Peter Marshall's inspiring and thought-provoking messages, delivered at the Y. M. C. A. fall services, will long be remembered
by those who heard them. Davidson is indeed fortunate to have such an appealing personality to conduct this group of
annual revival exercises.

Heartiest congratulations are extended to those eight members of the senior class who were recently elected to Phi Beta Kappa.
This doesn’t necessarily indicate that these men have more brains than the other members of their class, but it is
a reward for having employed their mental faculties more wisely and diligently.

SPLENDID OVATION....
The splendid ovation with which the Kryl band was received Monday night opened the 1935-’36 concert series in a most
encouraging fashion. The large crowd in attendance expressed its sincere approval by applauding vehemently at every opportunity, and they all
came away with nothing but praise for the wonderful program. Maestro Kryl proved himself an undisputed master of the musical
art. His dynamic conducting was particularly outstanding, and his solo numbers with the cornet gave his reputation added strength. With
this unusual concert as a starter, the Davidson music department promises to bring other nationally famous artists to the college
campus. To sponsor such a program, however, is a tremendously expensive undertaking. These talented musicians are greatly in demand, and
consequently must be paid quite liberally for their services. I am sure the audience would almost unanimously agree that Monday
night’s concert alone, was well worth the one dollar and a half price of a series ticket. So support the
Davidson music department, and at the same time take advantage of a very rare opportunity for real high-class entertainment, by
hearing the three, and possibly four, remaining concerts scheduled for this year.

FRESHMAN SPIRIT....
As has been noted by practically all upperclassmen on the campus, the spirit shown by the present freshman class is
manifestly poor. More breaches of discipline have been noted this year than at any time in the past. Many freshmen
are failing to co-operate in the wearing of caps, attending pep meetings, remaining in chapel seats, and in other rules.
An increasing leniency with freshmen has long been the trend, due to the respect of former first-year-men for rules. We
are proud of the fact that no hazing is necessary at Davidson. Severe forms of discipline are not needed for
those who keep the rules. They are for use only on those who break rules, and will doubtless come into
use again if regulations are not respected. A freshman entering Davidson is expected to uphold the spirit and traditions of
the campus. Compliance with regulations should be looked upon as a privilege, a courtesy extended to upperclassmen by the freshman
class. Freshman rules here are few and simple. Obedience to them inconveniences no one. Disobedience causes discomfort and friction for
all. The Davidson spirit is unique. Such a reputation is to be cherished and guarded. Freshmen who evade pep meetings
and athletic contests must be entirely devoid of interest in school affairs. Obviously, such indifference has no place in Davidson
if the traditional zeal is to survive. There are definite reasons for wearing freshman caps. They form a bond between
members of the freshman class. Friendships are more quickly made, acquaintances sooner formed. They add greatly to the general spirit
of the school. Without caps there is something lacking in the scheme of things. Anyone who has been to a
school where they are not in use realizes this fact. Freshmen should remember that they too will be upperclassmen in
the not-too-distant future. They will expect the respect of freshmen classes to come. They themselves will demand certain privileges peculiar
to upperclassmen. If they break traditions now, they cannot expect future classes to keep them. Remaining in chapel seats until
upperclassmen have cleared the hall is a matter of courtesy which should be observed by every man in the class.
Observance of this rule now will give you the right to expect its continuance in the future. Upperclassmen admire class
spirit, enthusiasm, and fire in freshmen—but only when it is put to the right use. It becomes a fine thing
when it is employed to promote school spirit, to foster achievement, and increase co-operation. It can better be done without
when it is displayed in flauntingness, prep-schoolishness, and “horsiness.” Men of the class of '39, we expect and demand your
spirit to be shown, not in shirking from pep meetings, or defacing buildings with your numerals, but rather in a
willing obedience to rules and a finer co-operation in upholding the Davidson spirit and tradition.

COLLEGIATE RAMBLINGS

TIGERS GET REAL MASCOT....
At last the Clemson Tigers have a real living emblem of their spirit. Some friend presented the college with a
Royal Bengal tiger, full grown and of no gentle temperament. The beast is eight feet long. Though Clemson greatly appreciates
the spirit behind the gift, the authorities are greatly perplexed by the problem of finding a suitable location for the
quarters of their prize. Someone has suggested that he be suspended by his neck from the tower of the Main
Building, but this proposition was rejected. Clemson cadets are overjoyed at the news that the South Carolina State Fair authorities
are going to admit them to the Clemson-South Carolina football game, played in Columbia at the fair grounds, absolutely free
of charge. One loyal Clemsonite has placed a bet that Clemson will make more touchdowns than Carolina will make first
downs. A fool and his money.

FROSH GET NEW DEAL....
The Ring-tum Phi, that constantly fertile source of interesting college news from Washington and Lee University, says that William Wesley
“Wee Willie” Grover, Jr., newly crowned president of the freshman class is planning a New Deal program for freshmen. The
most important item on the administration program seems to be the passing of a rule forbidding that the chapel bell
be rung for more than an hour after a football victory. Other objectives of Prexy Grover’s rule will be the
abolishing of “cutting up” on the Washington and Lee campus, a series of dignified “social events,” and a movement for
“More Time for Studies and Less Time on Social Activities.” Some freshman!

ODD GEORGIA HABITATIONS....
Like many other schools, the University of Georgia at Athens is very crowded for rooming accommodations this year. Satisfactory accommodations
for the overflow have been found in nearby barns, a deserted cannery, and sundry other buildings. Thirty-two of the poor,
homeless students have taken up their abode in the cannery amid the boilers, deserted cans, and trash. They say they
will be all right until the weather gets cold.

DAVIDSON OFF THE RECORD By HAROLD SUGG

IDLE CONJECTURES UPON NOTHING
It is interesting to feel the poignant rise of spirit on the day of the game. Intangible, it is like
a globe fed by 650 invisible wires from the Student Body that burns brighter with the collective rise of electric
excitement. First tremors are felt at chapel. At dinner, there are guests, girls. After dinner, the radios start the ballyhoo
with rousing college songs and opening broadcasts of big eastern games. Cars streaming in, the hurry, the hubbub: all gather
into one big tension that works itself out in the game. And after a game like the last one, instead
of the feeling of satisfied exhaustion, the spirit was blunted and frustrated, like a parachute that failed to open or
a firecracker that didn’t go off.

OBSERVATIONS
The anomalous class of ’39: Will wear caps backwards, shine all over the campus, climb narrow ladders in the chill
winds that blow around the water tank, inscribe the ignoble '39 thereon, berate the campus and yet will not appear
at the time-honored Pep Meeting for fear of immodest exposure of their shirt-tails. James Oldjohn, Senior, arose in the morning
as usual. Contrary to his usual habit, he neither shaved, brushed, slicked nor wore a coat. Had J. O., Senior,
become atavistic or rebellious? No, it was ODK tap day and he wanted to be sure to be surprised when
tapped.

MUSINGS
Those of you who were not so unfortunate as to have to work on The Davidsonian heard the Kryl Band.
Columnist slipped away for a while and heard most of a majestic program. Prose and Poetry are limited, for words
have meaning, but music has no limit and one theme is boundless in its appeal. Seldom before this critical audience
can a minister receive the acclamation that Peter Marshall did. Returning, might say, by popular demand, the very challenging nature
of his message grips the student. The fire and hope of him accentuates itself from the drabness that often clouds
other messages. Which gives us occasion to state our long-born inquiry: Is there a course in the Seminaries whereby one
learns to preach sadly, in wailing tones?

THE CARNIVAL OF CHARLOTTE
About half of the good boys traveled over expecting to see a fair and, although chagrined at finding no agricultural
exhibits, stayed on and contented themselves with the merry-go-round, cotton candy, and walking canes. Martin Barnette had his camera along
to spot good pictures for the Annual. Roy Bigham had his...date along. Salty Peters ought to run a show and
Jim Knox ought to look where he is going. Skinny Stevens got in free by virtue of his Schenectady Barker's
voice. VOX POP has one. Even now hath this calumnist reaped his harvest. Some archfiend sends this to the “Column
which disgraces the editorial page:”

“IF you of mine weren’t such a good bud, I'd dunk your face into a puddle of mud, You four-eyed
snooper, Harold Sludd.”

Such is the life of a calumnist. Another disgruntled reader suggests that I change the name to “Sugg off His
Nut.” Well, I don't care what you column.

ROMEOS AND LOCHINVARS

Midge Verble received a letter that reads thusly: “We are two girls lonesome for a pen pal. We weigh 118
each, one blond, the other brunette, and we both have enuff boy friends to get along.” This was all very
fine but the letter was addressed to “Miss Ira Verble, Davidson, N. C.”

We hear of a SPE Lochinvar who discourages SPE frosh social proclivities by continual snaking and who Sunday was brought
his due by the whole snaking SPE Fraternity. “Broadway Robbery, we call it,” say the SPE pledge group in unison.

Thomas Jokong Chang, of China, showed the way to the rest of the University of Pennsylvania students last year. He
took two degrees and led all his classes. John Germ is interested in bacteriology. He’s written Ohio State University for
information relative to a course in that subject.

AROUND WASHINGTON

Mr. Serwer, the regular Washington correspondent of The Davidsonian and the Associated Collegiate Press, this week writes from Birmingham, Ala.,
where he is spending a portion of his vacation.

By ARNOLD SERWER

Birmingham, Ala—In about two more weeks this column will carry a Washington dateline again, and concern itself once more with
bureaus and officeholders, programs and the people behind them, but in the interim, while moving about the South, I am
relaxing enough to permit myself the pleasure of doing a piece now and then about stray subjects.

The stray subject this time is the football game I saw played here yesterday, between Auburn and the University of
Tennessee, the first southern game I have ever witnessed. It was an excellent game, but never mind that. What interests
me is that the events of the afternoon did not come up to expectations.

I expected entirely different behaviour on the part of the fans. Having seen a number of games in the north,
played between southern and northern teams, at which seventeen southern rooters, a tiny little patch in a mass of home
team supporters, usually out-yelled all the rooters for the home team, having met in my time a great many high-spirited
southern gentlemen, the most fragile of whom at any sort of athletic contest could drown out a calliope. I was
frankly disappointed by the sustained periods of silence and by the mild bursts of cheering that came from the stands
during the game.

Partisanship, I had thought previously, must be even more pronounced at southern games than northern ones. I have heard alumni
of southern colleges talk about games played in the dim past, great historic games that they attended. And they spoke
of them in a tense manner, with a repressed fervor that brought back faint echoes of mighty cheers that rolled
out from the stands when Bancroft Bogie, of the Bama Bogies, tore off a 70-yard run only to be brought
down at last on the five-yard line by a peanut vender, who later turned out to be Buell Bogie, of
the Arkansas Bogies, own kin but lifelong enemies of the Bama Bogies.

Somehow, I thought, when southern rooters cheered their men on in some uncanny fashion they got a warlike note into
their cheers, a blare as of bugles. At such a moment, I thought, if you shut your eyes you might
easily be fooled into thinking it was the cheer that rose up from Pickett’s men when they swept forward toward
the Union lines at Gettysburg. But, if the Auburn-Tennessee game is a fair sample, it is not like that at
all. For two and a half hours I failed to hear a solitary rebel yell. No one got up and
let out so much as a single, irrelevant, piercing “Ya-hoooo!” People sat around and looked properly mournful, as Tennessee made
large decisive gains and collected two touchdowns inside of five minutes.

And partisanship, bitter partisanship, was at a low ebb. Directly in back of me sat two Auburn fans, one drunk
and the other sober. Next to them sat two Tennessee rooters, and here too, one of them was drunk and
the other sober. Did they call the referee a robber and a buzzard when he made a decision adverse to
their team? They did not. They pointed out to the opposing rooters the excellence of the referee’s eyesight and the
fine calibre of his judgment.

The Auburn two held their heads in their hands gloomily, and freely admitted to the Tennesseans that Tennessee was the
superior team. The Tennessee supporters denied it stoutly and took pains to explain that their team had had the breaks
and that was all there was to it. The place reeked of good sportsmanship. The Auburn men began to applaud
politely for Tennessee whenever their team put a difficult play over successfully. The Tennesseans began to look embarrassed and unhappy
whenever their players broke through Auburn’s line, as if fearful that such behaviour on the part of their team would
break up what looked like the beginning of a beautiful friendship among the four of them in the stands.

In front of me there was an interesting example of optimism at war with pessimism, of faith struggling with reality,
in the person of an Auburn rooter who was one of the few who ever raised his voice independently to
spur his team on. “Hold ’em Auburn!” he would yell, when Auburn was losing ground. And sotto voce he would
add gloomily, “To ten touchdowns!” “Watch ’em make them first downs,” he cried at another point. And sotto voce, “If
they don’t drop the ball.” “Let's make a slight touchdown, Auburn,” he bellowed toward the end of the game. “And
Tennessee will make three of 'em,” he mumbled unhappily.

There were only two fistfights in the stands during the game. This is far fewer than one finds starting during
the course of games in the north and the Middle West. Moreover, no inebriate appeared before the stands between halves,
as is customary in other sections of the country during football games, and offered to lead cheers for the crowd
or to buy drinks for all the Smiths present. I am glad to say, however, that several times during the
game someone announced over the stadium sound amplifier that a Mr. O’Toole was wanted at Gate One. Usually it is
a Mr. Chopclowsky that is wanted, but at the Auburn game Mr. O’Toole was in demand. They called for him
several times, and either they found him or they gave it up as a bad job, because finally they stopped
asking for him.

Even when Mr. O'Toole was being summoned from whatever place he was sulking in, the crowd showed lack of spirit.
Not a single waggish remark was made about Mr. O'Toole, about his wife or the G-Men wanting him. Yes, the
crowd definitely lacked color.

“Compare The News” From DAVIDSONIANS of Years Gone By

FIVE YEARS AGO

Wildcats will meet V. M. I. Saturday morning in Lexington. Twelve undergraduates and five alumni to try for Rhodes Scholarship.
Junior class wins stunt night award. O. D. K. will observe annual tap day November 4th. G. P. Pardington of
Junior class wins fourth Atwater Kent radio contest. Mr. Harry Rimmer speaks on “The Relation of Science to Religion”. Seven
men are issued Le Cercle Francais bids. Mr. and Mrs. Pierre Pelletier and their players to present “The Merchant of
Venice”. Phi Beta Kappa issues eleven bids. V. P. I. downs Wildcats 20-19. Ten wrestlers answer first call for practice.
Davidson Freshmen battle Rutherford to tie of 6-6. Alumni from thirteen states and forty-five classes present at Home-coming. Cake race
planned for Freshmen November 7th.

TEN YEARS AGO

Glee club sponsors stunt night Saturday at Shearer Hall. Furman defeats Davidson in close game with score of 7-0. Annual
Y.M.C.A. meeting is conducted by Dr. Charles F. Myers of Greensboro. Four fraternities plan to construct houses on Concord Street.
Wildcats to meet State Wolfpack Saturday. This is the annual Home-coming edition of “The Davidsonian”. Students vote to alter constitution
so as to allow vote of student body to override that of Student Council. Students plan to raise two hundred
dollars for Page Memorial, which is to be erected shortly. Holiday to be granted for Home-coming. Tennis players defeat Charlotte
Country Club team. Dr. Frazier Hood is spending the winter in Europe. He is now in Paris. R.O.T.C. plans to
have dress parade Saturday morning.

FIFTEEN YEARS AGO

Juniors and Seniors open class basketball competition. Wildcats down Richmond University 7-0. Salisbury golfers win from Davidson team. R.O.T.C. unit
receives additional equipment. Tennis players for team selected. Carolina Freshmen fall before Wildkittens 10-0. The Davidsonian editor speaks at Rock
Hill. St. Claire Sisters to present program Monday night at Shearer Hall. Dr. C. M. Richards delivers Sunday morning address.
Many candidates out for Glee Club. Wildcats to meet Citadel Bulldogs Saturday. J. Wilson Smith speaks to Y.M.C.A. men. R.O.T.C.
unit plans to have competitive contests in drilling and inspection this week. Captain Hearn to receive promotion soon.

QUERY DEPARTMENT

Why did The Duke Chronicle announce the results of the Duke-Auburn fracas by an extra giving the score in scare
headlines? Perhaps a gentle dig at azure imps football squad, what?

PUN OUR WORD

Did you hear of the Tulane meanie who, peeved at his girl, grew a moustache? Now every time they kiss
she gets down in the mouth. And even the bricklayer got where he is by hod work.

TOTAL DISABILITY

College Man—Won't you give a poor cripple a lift?
Tourist—In what way are you crippled? You look healthy enough to me.
College Man—Financially!
—Ring-Tum-Phi.
