THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 30, 1935 by Tom Corbin.

HONOR ROLL
George Gray and Bill Quick picked as “Pro” stars
Sports Afield

HONOR ROLL
Pittman, Lafferty, and “Six” Johnston are Varsity stars selected by Sam Wiley.
By HARRY KUYKENDALL

Well, the old Citadel jinx came all the way up from Charleston Saturday to haunt the ‘Cats for another year and now that we can see things from a different viewpoint, we find that all the “baloney” Coach Tatum Gressette handed us about the game being a cinch for Davidson had its desired effect. However, looking at the game from an optimistic viewpoint, we know that usually a team has to enjoy humility before distinguishing itself among the “gridiron immortals,” and thus we believe that Davidson will be destined to “rise to the occasion” by avenging last year’s defeat at the hands of Duke and by showing those who witnessed Saturday’s contest that a team representing 630 students can make the best look sick when it comes to mixing things up on the gridiron.

Paul Pittman and “Teeny” Lafferty again sent shivers chasing up and down the spines of Wildcat supporters with their thrilling performances, but this week Felix wants to place credit upon those men who aren’t particularly spectacular, but who nevertheless contribute just as much to the game. Hunter McClung, Baxter Yarborough, Wood Burns, and Midget Verble are the ones we have in mind this week. These men have won their spurs in football by their consistent play and deserve all the credit we can give them.

Although Henry Cathey always takes care of his job of blocking admirably, we could not help but notice one particular time in which he blocked a Citadel man two or three times on a single play. The aggravated Cadet, after his last trip to mother earth, arose and expressed his opinion on certain matters. However, continued play broke up any prospects of another contest besides the one already engaged in.

Coach Unger's “pro's” pulled off the wonder play of football Friday when Maurice Peabody, being rushed after he had already fallen back about 25 yards, heaved a pass to Bill Quick at the scrimmage line, who finding himself being rushed, had no alternative but to lateral backward to Peabody and in spite of all the backward play and wrangling, Maurice checked out for 35 yards to place the ball on the frosh 10-yard line. Considering the fact that the “pro's” had only a few plays which they were acquainted with, they did very well and should have won the game. They hit hard at tackling and made consistent gains. Coach Newton remarked while watching the game that a large number of replacements for next year's varsity would come from “both teams on the field.”

(Continued on Page 6)

All New Phonograph Records
BAND AND ORCHESTRA INSTRUMENTS
RADIO—SHEET MUSIC
PIANOS
ANDREWS MUSIC CO.
231 N. Tryon Street
CHARLOTTE

FROSH Overwhelms Locke White By Consistency To Win Tournament Handily
GRANT IN GOOD FORM
Johnson Wins Tournament With Loss Of Only One Set

Grant “Swede” Johnson overcame Locke White in three sets, 6-1, 6-3, 6-4, last Friday to win the finals match of the freshman fall tennis tournament. Smashing through five opponents, Johnson gained the top with the loss of only one set out of thirteen played. Ken Lawson was defeated in the semi-finals by Johnson, 6-4, 6-4, 10-8. White entered the last bracket after winning from Perry Sloan in a hotly contested match, 6-1, 8-10, 6-2, 1-6, 7-5. All except Johnson have played on high school or prep tennis teams, but he improved his steady game in every match to show excellent form in the finals.

Ed Cloyd lost to Johnson, 2-6, 6-1, 9-7, in the first round. Bill Preyer followed with a 6-0, 6-3 score. In the third round Raymond Pittman was the loser by 6-2, 7-5. Johnson took an early lead over White with five straight games, and then closed the set 6-1. White was not playing as well in this finals series as in his meeting with Sloan, but he brought most of the games to deuce points. During the second set Johnson sent many an ace into the opposite court and turned in several lucky tallies. The score was even at 2-2 when Johnson won two games, then lost his service to bring the total to 4-3. With two more games won by his consistent serving he took the decision, 6-3. White had Johnson 3-1 in the next set before he rallied to force four consecutive games from the West Virginian and bring the score to match game. Johnson had the advantage of volleying, making a number of kills and good placements. White won the next game on his own serve, but Johnson retaliated with three service aces and a swift placement shot to the back court in the game that brought the set to a 6-4 end. White, Lawson, and Sloan, who rate very close to each other, will probably form the nucleus of the freshman team in the spring, for Johnson does not expect to play tennis. Track and baseball are his specialties at Stony Brook, New York.

Pro Elevens Take Ex-Big Five Stars

Professional football this season seems to have taken a great deal of interest in the athletes of North Carolina as it has taken into its membership six “Big Five” stars of recent years’ service. Johnny Mackorell, former holdup of the Wildcat backfield, has made his showing this season with the New York Giants. He made a very good showing early in the season but due to being the lightest man on the squad, his progress has been handicapped. He has put on approximately twelve pounds, however, since the opening of the football season and is expected to show more active service for the Giants later on. He has appeared in several games during the season although now rated on the substitute list.

George Barclay, All-American guard for the Tar Heels in 1934, showed active service in the season for the Brooklyn Dodgers but due to a broken leg against one of the professional teams in Reading, Penn., it is not likely that he will play anymore this season. Freddie Crawford, former outstanding tackle for the Duke Blue Devils, has been playing first string ball for the Chicago Bears. He played almost the entire game against the college All-Stars and has been doing very well in other of their scheduled games. Eddie Kahn, another of the North Carolina stars playing at the guard position opposite to that of Barclay, has been playing his season out with the Boston aggregates. His showing with the Bear City eleven has proved to be another of the first string men. Pat Swan, turbulent stronghold of the tackle position for Wake Forest last year, is reported to be holding down a good job for the Brooklyn Dodgers.

GRANT JOHNSON WINNER TENNIS TITLE

“LIL’ MIDGE”
Midget Verble, fast stepping halfback and a consistent performer for the 'cats.

SOCCER ENTERS SPORT PROGRAM
Kenneth Scott and Bill Bell Will Lead First Davidson Soccer Team

This year for the first time in the history of the college, Davidson is sponsoring an intercollegiate soccer team. Backed by the enthusiastic support of “Pete” Whittle, the candidates have been practicing every day on the Freshman football field. The team has made rapid progress under the direction of Kenneth Scott, who is both co-captain and coach, supported by co-captain and manager Bill Bell. The first game has been scheduled with High Point College for November 15. In spite of an extensive program last year, High Point was undefeated, and will provide a real test for the Wildcats.

A list of the most promising players, from whom the team will probably be chosen, follows: Oscar Armstrong, Bill Bell, Alfred Bixler, Charlie Bixler, Jim Cothran, Arthur Haake, Russell Kerr, Howard McFayden, Johnny McMullen, Ken Scott, Graham Squires, Gene Vogler, Bobby Wilson, Johnny Wilson, and Leonard Woodward. Other soccer teams with whom the Davidson team will try to arrange games are sponsored by Duke, Furman, Clemson, Catawba, Fort Bragg, Kernersville, and the City of Winston-Salem.

Much Interest Shown In Fall Track Classic

According to Heath Whittle, director of intramural athletics, the annual decathlon contest will be run off in the near future. Much interest has been shown in this event in the past, and a large group is expected to enter the competition this year. The decathlon is composed of fourteen track and field events, with points ranging up to 100 being awarded in each event for such time records as ten seconds for the hundred-yard dash. Keen competition is expected in all of the fourteen divisions of the meet.

When a letter was refused Jim Tolbert, husky University of Texas lineman, because he swung at an official after a game, he was presented with a mounted trophy by his teammates.

Physicists at Columbia University have measured the neutron. 0.0000000000001 inch!

The answer: majority of their games.

THE N.C. PACK, AND DEVILS LEADING IN THE BIG FIVE
Wake Forest In Cellar Position—Upset George Washington For Only Win
DEVILS BEATENTWICE Wildcats To Play Duke Here November Ninth

In the race for the Big Five championship, we find a three-way deadlock at mid-season between North Carolina, Duke, and North Carolina State. In the league, Carolina has victories over Davidson and Wake Forest; Duke has a victory over Wake Forest; and N. C. State has victories over Wake Forest and Davidson.

NORTH CAROLINA UNIVERSITY

The Tar Heels have played only two games in the “Big Five” and have amassed in those two games 28 points to their opponents’ none. It seems that the Heels smell the “scent of roses in the air.” Next Saturday, the powerful Tar Heels risk their clean record of no defeats and no ties when they play Hunk Anderson's big, bad Wolves at Raleigh for the lead of the Big Five. To Carolina, however, it means far more than the lead of the league, it means another game that they must win if they want to stay headed Southwest toward Pasadena. There are several potential All-Americans to be found among Carl Snavely’s boys. Bershak, Little, Hutchins, Jackson, Montgomery, Buck, Moore, and Daniel have been the mainstays to mid-season.

DUKE UNIVERSITY

The Blue Devils got off to a good start in the Big Five by beating Wake Forest 14-0 in the first game of the season for either team. Devils have not played a Big Five game since that time and will not play another until they meet the Wildcats here at Richardson Field on November 9th. The Dukes also had their Rose Bowl hopes roused at the first of the season when they were going places behind beautiful blocking. The Rambling Wreckers really wrecked Wallace Wade’s hopes for an undefeated season. The defeat by the Golden Tornado was followed by another defeat at the hands of Auburn's Plainsmen. Parker, Hackney, Ward, Alexander, and Durner have been (Continued on page 6)

Support Is Pledged By Managers For Season

“The thing we are trying to do,” said J. B. Goslen, varsity football manager, “is to fix the team up so they'll win.” This includes himself, D. B. Griffin, equipment manager, R. L. Harris, who is manager of the Freshman team, and all of the assistant managers. These men were elected to the above positions by the entire football squad at the end of the 1934 season, during which time they had served in the capacity of Junior managers. The Junior managers for the current season are L. K. Hill, D. R. Sellars, and J. O. Branten; who in turn will be elected to the Senior managerial positions. They were chosen from a group of five, the other two of which were G. S. Norfleet and R. M. Vance, on the basis of the amount and quality of the work done during their Freshman and Sophomore years. The following hold the position of Sophomore managers: T. F. Morrison, J. K. Dorsett, and A. D. McLaughlin. The Freshman managers are Cage Brewer, R. A. Burgess, R. S. Spencer, D. A. McQueen, P. S. Marchant, A. H. Moore, E. J. Webb, R. J. Towell, K. C. Campbell, and P. M. Davidson. Goslen has announced that a few Freshman managerial positions are still vacant and that it is not too late to try out for them if any first-year men wish to do so.

ELI LILLY & CO. E. R. SQUIBB & SONS PARKE DAVIS & CO.

We Fill Any Doctor’s Prescriptions Only Purest, Fresh Drugs Used and You are Sure to Pay a Moderate Fair Price at COLLEGE PHARMACY “Davidson's Service Drug Store”

Despite Its Daring Challenge, Wildkitten Team Is Unable To Score

PEABODY IS PRO STAR Frosh Hold All-Americans Four Yard Line

Coach Unger’s Pro’s, alias the All-Americans, played the freshman team to a scoreless tie on Richardson Field last Friday, October 25. The game came as a result of a verbal and written challenge tendered the “Pro’s” by the freshmen team. The written challenge was read in chapel Friday morning. The epistle demanded an answer within fifteen seconds after reading. Result: the football match. The captain of the All-Americans was C. C. Quick; and of the freshmen, Bobby Abell. Hugh Gracy acted in the capacity of referee; Jim Dickson, field judge; Johnny Pierce, head linesman; and “Tricky Dave” Sellars, timekeeper.

With the opening whistle, the freshmen kicked off to the Pro’s, who returned the ball about ten yards when the frosh proceeded to hold the Pro’s for two downs and forced them to kick. With the ball in their possession, the freshmen started down the field with a forty-yard march by “Boose” Brown. This proved to be one of the most spectacular plays of the game, exhibiting a neat bit of broken field running on the part of Brown and some good blocking on the part of his teammates. Following this run, Hunt made nine yards on a play off right tackle and on the next play a freshman back made a first down. On their own twenty-four yard line, the Pro’s dug in and held the freshmen for four downs and the ball passed over to the All-Americans. As the quarter ended, Charlie Brown kicked out of danger to their opponents’ thirty-yard line.

In the second period, after two unsuccessful runs, Stair kicked to Peabody on his own twenty-six, the latter returning the ball for nine yards. On this play, Hunt was hurt and was replaced by “Little Tip” Harrison in the freshmen line-up. The “Pro’s” made thirty yards on the next two plays by means of a pass from Quick to Peabody and a run by Peabody off left tackle. Continuing this drive with short gains, the Pro’s reached the freshmen four-yard line where they were held for downs and the ball changed hands. Stair kicked the ball from behind his own goal line to the freshman thirty-five. The Pro’s came back with a ten-yard gain by use of their famous spread formation and the half ended with the ball on the twenty-five.

The two teams returned to the second half strengthened by substitutions. The freshmen received the kick-off and returned it to their own thirty. Stair took the ball on the next play off right tackle for fifteen yards. Passes to Iverson and Brown laid the ball on the All-American thirty-five yard line and another pass brought the freshmen to the fifteen. Taking to the air once more, the frosh tried two more passes which were knocked down. A third pass was intercepted by Bill Nicholson to put an end to the touchdown drive. The Pro’s came back with two first downs and the third quarter ended.

Play having been resumed, the “Pro’s” kicked from their own thirty-five to “Little Tip” Harrison who returned the ball to the forty-seven yard marker. The All-Americans held the freshmen, who finally kicked to the twenty-five. Here (Continued on page 6)

FIGHTING FROSH BATTLE UNGER'S B TEAM TO TIE

“CHUB” Baxter “Chub” Yarborough, who is holding down the fullback position for his second consecutive year.

FROSH TO PLAY V.P.I. FRIDAY Kitten-Gobbler Tilt Brought Here To Satisfy College Eligibility Ruling

The football game between the Davidson freshmen and the V. P. I. yearlings, originally scheduled to be played at Blacksburg last weekend, will be held on Richardson Field, Friday, November 1, at 2:30 p.m. The change of the place of the contest was occasioned by the ineligibility of nine members of the Davidson freshman team. According to athletic rules here, no student shall represent the college on any athletic team away from the college unless he is reported as passing in at least three three-hour courses. The nine freshmen in question are therefore eligible to play in home games, although they cannot take athletic trips. Due to the change of the scene of the game, the next two games between Davidson and V. P. I. frosh, those coming in 1936-37, will be played at Blacksburg.

In the first game of the Davidson season last year, the Gobbler frosh beat the Kittens by a score of 12-2. This year, however, the local freshmen will try to regain some of their prestige, lost at the hands of the State frosh, at the expense of the first-year men from Blacksburg. These nine men compose almost the “cream of the crop” insofar as football ability is concerned. However, with the game scheduled here on Richardson field, these men will be prepared for the “little Gobblers,” who, according to reports, are a little weak this year.

The American Council of Learned Societies will hold a six weeks’ course in Arabic and Islamic studies at Princeton University next summer.

Snappier and Snappier

As the season advances, and the itch to go places and get together becomes practically irresistible. Quite right, what? For in that hotel’s Main Dining Room the dinner that’s served at a dollar would, all by itself, brighten anybody’s day. Then there’s the dancing—and there’s no cover charge or other extras, you know—which makes the attraction of the place to a restless Davidsonian practically irresistible. Proof? Well, just come in and look around!

HOTEL CHARLOTTE

Don’t forget “The Tavern,” boys; it’s mighty comfortable these fall evenings, and the food’s right.