THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 10, 1935

The Davidsonian
Founded by the Class of 1916
Associated Collegiate Press
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Printed by the QUEEN CITY PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate year.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879.

ARTICLES FOR PUBLICATION must be in the hands of Managing Editors by 4:00 o'clock p.m., Monday. Letters to the Editor are but all communications intended for publication must be signed.

Editor
Lamont Brown

Business Manager
R. P. Morrow

EDITORIAL STAFF
Managing Editor
Howett Overton

Managing Editor
Harold Sugg

Managing Editor
Raymond Turner

Managing Editor
John Winn

Managing Editor
Harry Kuykendall

Sports Editor
Martin Barnett

Associate Editor
Harvey Glass

Associate Editor
Paul Delaruan

Associate Editor
Tom Marchant

Associate Editor
John Walker

Associate Editor
Jim Morton

BUSINESS STAFF
Circulation Manager
Charles Mauze

Circulation Manager
Britt Swope

Circulation Manager
Bob Vance

Advertising Manager
Ike Robinson

Collection Manager
Bing Bing

Assistant Business Manager
Bill Doyle

Friday, May 10, 1935

All other knowledge is hurtful to him who has not honesty and good nature—Montaigne

Deepest sympathy is extended to Mr. M. W. McGill in this time of bereavement.

DAVIDSON HONOR WILL BE UPHELD

Three weeks approximately remain in the present school year. Three weeks only separate some of us from that coveted diploma, and others of us from another year’s credit toward said diploma. From past observation, we cannot help but note that these last few weeks seem to constitute a danger point for some few members of the student body. Possibly this is due to the excitement of closing another year’s work, possibly to the seeming let-up in vigilance on the part of those to whom the maintenance of what we are accustomed to call Davidson Honor is entrusted. Every year, some few make the mistake of trusting that there actually is a let-up in vigilance, with the usual dire consequences and unpleasantness with regard to every person concerned.

First, may we assure you that there is never such a let-up. Those in offices are usually types which never allow their senses of right and wrong to become lax or warped. It would be much less worrisome to these men if they could allow their consciences to weaken at such times, but the oath of office is binding, and one which is not forgotten with ease. The new student council is mindful of its function as guardian of the aforementioned Davidson Honor, by its enforcement of the Davidson Honor System as stated in the constitution, and it intends to see justice done in every case before it. It is the earnest hope of the new council, however, that this year may be completed without any such case coming before it. What a splendid precedent that would be.

The past administration reiterated time and time again, its pleas for students to make use of the excellent locks now provided for each room. These pleas were rewarded to some extent, since a far greater number of men now keep their doors locked than formerly, thus removing from weaker men, a terrible temptation. The new administration cannot stress this plea enough. If every man will consider the infinite amount of distress and worry avoided by this removal of temptation, we have no doubt that no one of our number will continue leaving his room open to the pleasure of anyone who desires to enter. It is indeed unfortunate that we must consider so seriously the fact that there are among us, weak men, but the matter is so generally recognized as true, in the light of a few unfortunate occurrences in the past, that we need not debate it further.

Now, to more pleasant matters. Suggestions are occasionally being tended to members of the new administration as to innovations, improvements, etc., which may be desirable. Any man having such a suggestion in mind will confer a favor on members of the new administration, if he will communicate it, and he may rest assured that if such plans or ideas are deemed practical, they will be immediately put into effect. One such suggestion involves substituting once or twice each week, one of the vice-presidents of the student body for the president in our daily chapel exercises. The arguments for the suggestion are that vice-presidents will thus gain valuable experience in appearing before the student body, and the students themselves will welcome a change from the regular routine. Certainly the idea is well worth considering. What do you think?

PAN HELLENICS TENDER REBUTTAL

I feel it my bound duty to write this in reply to an editorial which appeared in the May 1st issue of the Davidsonian. The title of the editorial was “A Suggestion to the Pan-Hellenic Council.” I write with the feeling that the author’s sentiments are not shared by the student body at large. The purpose of this reply is directed toward the dissolution of any false beliefs that may have accumulated as a result of the writer’s journalistic effort.

Criticism when well directed, well thought out and of substance is a valuable thing. It serves to improve and promote. But hasty criticism and especially false criticism is of no value and serves to embitter and put to unjust scorn the objects of the criticism. My purpose as stated above is to clear the Pan-Hellenic Council of the stigma of student body reproach and I shall proceed along rambling lines.

First of all let me insist that the matter of promoting a set of dances is a business proposition. The process entails considerable expense which eventually must be met. The only means of meeting these expenses is by the levy of an admission charge. The author’s plan calls for no excess of intake over expenses. Yet he fails to realize that certain uncertain elements enter into the proposition and may serve to either make or break it. Bad weather, student body disinterest, campus activities, etc., all serve to make the promotion of Davidson College dances a hazardous undertaking. It is true that money is lost with as much frequency as it is made. There is no means known to the writer by which expenses can be guaranteed except by the fraternities and it seems improbable, certainly illogical, that the fraternities would be willing to go into business. Yet the author insists that the Greek Societies sponsor and take responsibility for Davidson dances.

I will dismiss the author’s declaration that Pan-Hellenic Councilmen are actuated only by the desire for money and that they are devoid of all and any forms of school spirit. I know from contact with the gentlemen on the Council that this is untrue. A study of the Councilmen themselves will prove the utter fallaciousness of such an unkind charge. Primarily the Council is a social organization, a child of the social fraternities. The principal purpose of the existence of the Council is the promotion of dances. It is only reasonable to willingly permit this Council to act so as to prevent or mitigate financial losses. Yet in so doing the Council draws the journalistic fire of the author. I quote from the author's article, “In the past they (the Councilmen) have not been spirited enough to give their services to the best interests of the student body without receiving some compensation.” The student body has never given the Councilmen any compensation for its efforts. What little surplus occurs is an incidence of good business manipulation. The student body only accords us its usual full measure of support. If the sole purpose in sponsoring the dances was to garner revenue into Council coffers we would have long since advertised in Charlotte and encouraged non-student support.

The author finally indicts us on the count of being on a “low level.” I submit the names of the following men: A. C. Rogers, Duke Glasgow, Joe Wadsworth, Bill Ravenel, Fred McPhail, Hugh Yelverton, Charlie Harris, Bill Atwater, and Mims Rogers. The above men composed the Council of the current school year. Some of the offices which they held are: President of the senior class, President of the honorary fraternity Council, Business manager of the Davidsonian, Captains of basketball and track, managers of football and basketball, lettermen in all four major sports, and others too numerous to mention. In addition, six of the nine Councillors are members of ODK. I leave the question to the Student Body at large: Can such men be considered as being “on a low level” or as being devoid of school spirit?

In closing, may I explain the “Midwinters situation.” As the student body knows, there was much talk about Kay Kyser playing for this set of dances. The Pan-Hellenic Council honestly thought that it had secured the services of this famous orchestra, and even had a contract, according to our legal adviser. However, we were not in a position either to sue to demand their presence. Assuming that this “second or third rate orchestra” had not broken contract with us, we would have charged $7.00 for the set. Let us look at the expenses:—Band $1200, dance hall $150, decorations, lights, crystal ball, flowers and favors, $150, a total of $1500. Judging from past experiences, we would have sold approximately 150 sets of tickets and had 150 paid admissions Saturday night at $2.50 apiece. This totals $1425, a loss of $75 at least. The U. of N. C., with no expense of ballroom floor and a student body of 2500 as opposed to our 650, charged $14 for their Pan-Hellenic Set. As “compensation” for devoting our “time and services to the student body,” we would have gained entrance to the dances and been accountable for a loss of $75 or more. Finally, we advertised Paul Sabin and gave you Red Nichols plus the favored artists of Paul Sabin for $5.00. On that occasion we stood a loss of over $100. Are we still to be condemned as sacrificing the quality of entertainment “to satisfy our selfish ends”?

THE COLLEGIATE REVIEW

Sample form of Canadian humor as published at the University of Manitoba (Winnipeg)—It is in the form of a riddle: “What goes 99 plunk?” The answer, believe it or not, is “A Centipede with a wooden leg.”

Chimes in Dr. Floyd A. Spencer of New York University (New York): “Many Phi Beta Kappas cannot intelligently read the better magazines because their education has been departmentalized.”

This mad world is going madder trying to find names for new types of madness.

DAVIDSON off the RECORD
By Harold Sugg

May we add our note of admiration for Capt. Pritchett and of regret for the leaving of a man who has given Davidson a name and Davidson athletics a spirit. Capt. Pritchett is the one man at Davidson whose decisions are accepted without question. He can say more in fewer words than any man we know. An accident last Sunday night, although unfortunate, illustrates his popularity. Falling slave to capricious outbursts, which happens every year about this time, a number of students in a certain dormitory were...Engaging in the pleasant pastime of water-throwing. Coming in from the rain, his hat pulled down and lapels up, Capt. Pritchett was unrecognized and promptly received his due proportion of water. Many others, of stiff-collar dignity, would have reacted differently, but Pritchett took it good-naturedly. The abashed students apologized, and the unfortunate incident passed off. Capt. Pritchett is the symbol of all that is good about Davidson.

Chubby King and his campus orchestra continued to win student favor despite the recent setback. We reached a paradox: we can have dances off the campus but not on, and dance bands on the campus but not off. Their trio—Geddie Monroe, Buddy Robinson, and Pete McKnight—yodel a good “Lullaby of Broadway,” and the throngs that appear nightly applaud their arrangement of “White Heat.” They are giving their first concert tonight. All are invited. The poor lads have changed their theme song to “The Prisoner’s Song.”

“Shy” Taylor, Bill Swope, “Wick” Richardson, Ab Price, and Guerrant were sitting right on the tails when the Kentucky Derby swept by. Ray is off of psychi bids; “Shylock” Taylor, the Merchant of Davidson, is reported to have made a profit even without betting, and P. D. is sporting a brand new “shiner,” due to some blow. P. D. says it was a horse’s, but we don’t believe it. As a popular professor put it: “Guerrant got an eyeful of the derby.”

The Y. M. C. A. cabinet staged a disgraceful debauchery at a house party on the Catawba River Saturday. Finding a whisky bottle in McClure’s pocket can be excused, but when he staggers and nearly falls in the river, it looks bad. Swimming and a picnic supper are the relatable incidents. Prof. and Mrs. Schenck were chaperones, despite the Dean's recent ruling concerning chaperones. “Dead Eye” Sprunt, “Vagabond” Coit, “Plastered” McClure, “Paul Jones” Smith, and “Seagrams” Phifer took gals. Don Brandon and Warren Babcock were the stags, and Katherine Crowell, Julia Handson, Dell Arbuckle, Mary Louise Moffett, and Elizabeth Phifer were the little dears.

Charlotte again fought Concord for Davidson favor Friday night. About ten of the good boys attended the affair at the Myers Park Country Club. We have heard of girls who walk home, but we have on the campus in person one Tom Breeden who walked 3 miles from the Club to the Charlotte Hotel at 3 A.M. Concord’s after-effect was even better than the dance. We must thank “Mother” Verble that all were not drowned. A bigger affair is promised next Friday.

From one of the informed Seniors, we heard an interesting version of how “Fire!” started at Davidson. In old Chambers, the fraternity rooms were in the wings, and it was necessary to go through the dormitory section to get to them. Thus, on those all-too-rare occasions when girls are invited, “Fire!” served a useful warning purpose lest some student be found wandering in deshabille.

If this “Davidsonian” is even worse than the least, it’s because Editor Brown and Manager Morrow went to Agnes Scott May Day, and Harris Barksdale didn’t take good care of them.

ROCK HILL: attached the usual number of geologists this weekend. Salty Peters hits the trail quite regularly.

MAY FROLICS: Carolina dances become even more predominantly Davidson dances. There were thirty.

RALEIGH: Joe Wadsworth, George Norfleet, Howard Summerell, and Billy Hill were four who took in either the State Military Ball or the Kappa Sig-Kappa affair or both.

WE SAW: Ken Knorr with a beautiful platinum blonde in Charlotte Saturday.

WE HEARD: Sky Cline likes to have morning dates in Tuxedo.

WE BELIEVE: That Harpo has gone Hebrew on us.

WE KNOW: That Hugh Yelverton and Goof Warren had a good time at the NCCW May Pole exercises.

SPEED-QUEEN: At a recent typing exhibition at Central High School in Charlotte, a young champion made a record of 156 words per minute. She is able to carry on a conversation and type 120 words of unfamiliar manuscript per minute. At the age of 17, this Miss Paulion won the National typewriting contest with 200 words per minute.

EXPERIENCE: A Duke University co-ed recently advertised in the student paper, The Duke Chronicle, for a man of “pleasing countenance and unquestionable experience.” Residents of the women’s dormitories at Washington State Normal School (Ellensburg) are campused for one weekend for necking in the dormitory.

WAKE FOREST: High School seniors who live “conveniently” near Wake Forest are invited to attend the Commencement exercises of the college. Wake Forest students familiarized themselves with court procedure at “moot” courts. A freshman at Wake figures he has 1,164,600 seconds before seeing mother again. Forty-one Wake men are state legislators. 73% of Wake students’ expenses are paid by the college.

EXCHANGES: The University of Minnesota imposes a fine of ten dollars on co-eds wearing fraternity pins. Faculty members of Columbia were given an intelligence test by the student paper, and the average score indicated a mental age of 20. At Syracuse, the boxing coach advocated that girls take up boxing, adding “Of course they will be starting from scratch, but—”. Faculty members and classes are represented by horses in the “Greater Agnes Scott” campaign. In the Ohio state penitentiary, there are 131 college graduates.

DID YOU KNOW: “It’s against the law in Georgia to put your arm around a woman without legal reason or excuse,” stated Prof. Tom Green of the University of Georgia’s law school. The gist of his speech was personal liberty. A preacher is breaking the laws of Georgia when he preaches on Sunday, for the state statute says that a person is not to follow his profession on the Sabbath, and a preacher is following his profession when he delivers the regular Sunday sermon.

CAN IT BE TRUE: That eighty percent of the girls at Skidmore College (Saratoga Springs, N.Y.) were truthful when they denied that they had been kissed. Even Butler University (Indianapolis, Ind.) co-eds weren’t allowed to belong to secret societies with young men in 1897 because it was suspected that one of the initiation rites was a kiss. That North Carolina State College now offers a correspondent course in plumbing.

Quips And Cranks To Appear Soon: Should Be Ready For Students Around May 20th. The printers of the 1935 Quips and Cranks, the annual yearbook published by the Senior class of Davidson College, have promised to have the book ready for delivery to the students by May 20. Despite the fact that the printers feel definitely certain that the book will be in the students' hands by the above date, the editor, Bob Smith, says that this can’t be depended upon as a sure time for the issuing of the annuals. He does assure us, however, it will be off the press sometime very soon after May 20th. Although nothing is known definitely regarding the composition of the 1935 volume, it promises to be an excellent publication.

At the University of California, every male student must undergo two weeks of football training, one in the line and one in the backfield.

LEGISLATURE ACTIVITIES: Two bills brought up for reading in the N.C. State legislature were: One, to make it lawful for any member of the Legislature to throw a liquor party while in Raleigh, and another, to make a member vote as he drank. The student bar association at Ohio State University offers free legal aid to any student involved in a scrape with the law.

COLLEGIANA: In a group of 150 schools considered as leading in the athletic field, 62 had names of animals for their nicknames. A six-day cyclist race is now in progress as two letter fraternities contest for a beer party and $100 in cash at the University of Georgia. Two thousand wads of chewing gum were recently taken from their resting places under library tables at the University of Florida—some sticky? F.E.R.A. students at Virginia Polytechnic Institute made better grades during the first quarter of the current year than their classmates. At Hunter College this year, science is found to be the most popular field among the freshmen. Secretary of Labor, Frances Perkins, addressed the Duke Woman’s College on the National Recovery Administration, pointing out the advantages of this institution. May Day proved colossal, gigantic, even stupendous at Southern female institutions. Ray Rex was awarded the coveted Alumni athletic trophy in the recent student body elections at N.C. State for that honor. Sally Rand of fan dance fame was once a student in the school of journalism at Columbia University. A professor at Roanoke College claims that his students will be as famous as Napoleon at the rate they are going down in history. The R.O.T.C. unit rates excellent at Presbyterian College.

NEWS FROM DAVIDSONIANS OF YEARS GONE BY:

FIVE YEARS AGO: Annual athletic night held May 6. Julian Miller speaks to new O.D.K. members. Handbook to be out about August 1. New “Y” Board of control chosen. Jack Ramseur elected president of Glee Club. Lawrence Smith and Dean Rusk chosen managers of Student Store. Delta Phi Alpha, German Fraternity, installs chapter at Davidson. J.S. Meacham chosen president of Red and Black Masquers for the coming year. Joe McCall elected captain of Track Team. Letters and numerals given in Baseball, track, and tennis. Movie on Life of Wilson to be presented here.

TEN YEARS AGO: Thirteen men initiated by Reporters’ Club. North Carolina Collegiate Press Association holds convention at Davidson. Wildcats place third in State track meet. Davidson debaters win from Wake Forest. Davidsonian chosen best college paper in state by North Carolina Collegiate Press Association. Announcement made that Prof. H.E. Fulcher and Dr. G.R. Vowles will be added to Davidson Faculty. Wildkittens defeated by State, 13–3. Senior Class to remodel drinking fountain. I.R.C. initiates nine men. Frosh tennis team plans for coming tour of the state.

FIFTEEN YEARS AGO: Wildcat nine defeats Wofford, 11–8. Ten games booked for football team for the coming year. Class of 1915 plans for reunion at commencement. ‘Cats defeat P.C. 11–2. Tennis team defeats Elon and Trinity. Davidson post of American Legion organized. Miss Mary Potter will give a voice recital at Davidson. Dr. C.M. Richards decides to remain at Davidson. Frosh-Soph Debate won by Eumaneans. Davidson defeated by Furman, 3–1. Dr. J.W. McConnell leads “Y” vesper service. Student Body officers for the coming year installed.

Commencement Invitations, Fraternity Publications, Visiting Cards, Personal and Fraternity Stationery. QUEEN CITY PRINTING Co. 1143 E. FOURTH ST. CHARLOTTE, N.C. K.D. WEEKS Fine Printing. JOE WADSWORTH.