FRESHMEN DEBATE TRYOUTS SET FOR FRIDAY, DEC. 6

The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

SEE THE DEACONS BOW TO OUR ’CATS AS SEASON’S CLIMAX

VOL. XXI

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., NOVEMBER 20, 1935

NUMBER 8

FIVE DEBATERS ARE CHOSEN ON VARSITY SQUAD

Boggs, Port, Salango, Stewart, And Sugg Are Selected From Contestants

FOUR ARE EXPERIENCED

Fifteen Men Tryout in Eumenean Hall Friday Night

Of the fifteen contestants that tried out for the Varsity debating team in Eumenean Hall Friday night, Wade Boggs, Tyler Port, James Salango, Robert Stewart, and Harold Sugg were chosen to represent Davidson. Paul Harlan, Heywood Hill, and Charles Mauze were selected as alternates. Four of these men have had previous experience. The contestants were judged by Dr. C. K. Brown, Dr. Cumming, Professors E. J. Erwin, E. A. Beatty, and J. C. Bailey. The topic for debate was “Resolved: That Congress should be empowered by a two-thirds majority vote to override a five-four decision of the Supreme Court, declaring an act unconstitutional.” Present at the debate, in addition to judges and contestants, were a number of freshmen, and the chairman of the evening, Fitz Dade.

The tentatively arranged debates for the Southern Tour are with the University of South Carolina, Emory University, and the University of Miami. On the western trip, the debating team will meet Sewanee University, the University of West Virginia, and Washington and Lee University. The debates for the northern tour are with Swarthmore University, the University of Richmond, the University of Maryland, and possibly (Continued on Page 6)

Dramatic Club To Give Unusual Play

Red And Black Masquers Will Present ‘Whistling In The Dark” Tuesday

Of course, you've whistled in the dark, but the chances are against your ever having done it in the middle of the night with revolvers pointing at you from all avenues of escape, with the threat of death hanging over your head, and over that of the girl you love. That's what Wallace (Wade Barrow) Porter, the hero of “Whistling in the Dark,” did, and you may see it for yourself when the Red and Black Masquers present this recent New York success in the Chambers Auditorium on the evening of Tuesday, November 26, at 8:00 P.M.

Porter and his fiancée (Mrs. Grier Martin) are house-hunting for a nice large, quiet home in the country. They find it, but it is uncomfortably full of gangsters. These are quite amiable at first, trying to get rid of the homeseekers, but Wally’s tongue is loosed by their hospitality, and his boasts of proficiency in the writing of crime and mystery fiction, and of his ability to concoct the “perfect crime,” bring about a change in their attitude, and his presence becomes more highly valued. In fact, he is locked in, with his girl (poor fellow!), and instructed to plot a clueless murder to be executed against the Crime Commissioner, or be cluelessly murdered himself. With a radio, a telephone with cut wires, and a considerable number of guards, he sets to work, and, while the action from this point on cannot be told here, a ticket to the play will be your pass to a very humorous and exciting solution to the problem faced by these two young and frightened lovers.

Dr. Frontis Johnston, of the history department, who saw the play at the Ethel Barrymore Theatre in New York during its metropolitan run, remembers, after some three or four years, that the dialogue and situations were, in his own words, “hilarious.” The role of Porter was taken in the original production by Ernest Truex, a most capable comedian. Dr. Johnston considers this play excellent movie material.

Plans Announced For Sophomore Dance Set

The Sophomore Class will sponsor its set of dances in the Charlotte Armory on the weekend of December the thirteenth and fourteenth, featuring Jelly Leftwich and his orchestra. During the past winter, Jelly Leftwich played at the Belvedere Hotel in Baltimore, and at the Hotel Bellevue-Stratford in Philadelphia. Last summer, this group of musicians played at Virginia Beach, and at the present, they are playing on the Shell program. Miss Kay Keever, their talented soloist, can well be remembered for her lovely voice and striking beauty. The set will consist of three dances: a formal dance, Friday night from ten until two; a tea dance, Saturday afternoon from four until six; and the informal dance from eight-thirty until midnight that evening.

ALUMNI MAKING PLANS FOR GIFT

Social Center, Church Are Leading Causes For Centennial Contribution

Plans are being made for an Alumni Gift, and alumni have been asked to tell what their preferences are, to which they would prefer to have their money contributed. Leading causes are: social center, church, infirmary, library, and field house, in the order named but very close. Following these in popularity is the Alumni Scholarship system.

“The SOCIAL CENTER would include places of recreation for the students and provide facilities for the entertainment of guests on the campus.

“The need for a new CHURCH BUILDING has long been recognized, since the building now used is entirely inadequate to the needs of the college and the community. Not only is the church insufficient in size but it is uncomfortable and not conducive to religious influence.

“The frame house which now houses Davidson’s INFIRMARY is almost a disgrace to a college of the size and importance of Davidson. A new building with modern equipment could be built for a relatively small sum.

“Modern educational institutions are growing more and more dependent on their LIBRARIES for their best work. Davidson's Library is decidedly behind the times in this respect, and a new building is almost essential to the college.

“Since the inauguration of Davidson's program of athletics for all several years ago, a great need has been felt for a large FIELD HOUSE which would accommodate a great many more participating students. The gymnasium now used has only one basketball court and practically no other facilities.

“An Alumni Scholarship system would allow members of local groups to give to a scholarship fund which would send an outstanding boy from the community to Davidson.”

These quotations from the last number of the Alumni Journal sum up the causes to which Alumni desire to contribute as a Centennial Gift.

Davidsonian Man Edits Journalistic Handbook

A Handbook for Reporters has recently been made available for the use of the DAVIDSONIAN staff. This booklet was compiled and edited by Daymond Turner, one of the managing editors. In mimeographed form, it attempts to cover the most frequently misunderstood points of elementary news writing, copy preparation, and head writing. Material was drawn principally from Editing the Day’s News, by Bastian, The NSPA Scorebook, and the style books of several metropolitan newspapers. Turner prepared the handbook as part of a summer course in journalism and was assisted in getting it into present form by Wesley Coghill, Howell Overton, and Locke White of the DAVIDSONIAN staff.

An Editorial

At a meeting last week, the student council voted unanimously to undertake to better studying conditions in the dormitories by eliminating all unnecessary noises after seven P.M. The program places violators of already existing rules concerning the maintenance of proper study conditions under council discipline, and is expressed in the following three articles:

I. The student council shall have the right and duty to remove from the dormitories to other lodging, any person whose conduct is consistently annoying, and which conduct interferes with the proper studying conditions of any student.

II. A representative shall be appointed on each hall of Watts, Georgia, East, and West dormitories, on each side of Rumple dormitory, and in North and South dormitories. The function of this representative shall be solely to receive complaints, and is not that of a monitor. He is not, himself, responsible for the conduct of the men on his hall, but shall receive complaints from men on his hall, and shall then report them to the proper authority for investigation. In brief, the purpose of establishing such a representative on each hall is to facilitate the reporting of conduct which does not permit proper studying conditions to be maintained.

III. The first complaint against a student shall be deferred for investigation to a committee to be appointed from the student council. If the complaint is justifiable, the committee shall attend the offender and shall render to him suggestions concerning his future conduct. Second complaints against the aforementioned student, if justifiable, shall call for trial before the student council, which, if it deems wise, shall employ the right described in Article I against the offender.

The council sincerely hopes that the student body will join so completely in the movement, that use of this new power will be unnecessary. However, in view of the increasing amount of noise in the dormitories, it has deemed it wise to adopt the program as outlined, and will not fail to effect the removal of any man from the dormitories, should such action become necessary. Attention is especially called to Article II. The representatives therein provided for are purely for the convenience of men on each hall who wish to register complaints. Should any man wish to turn in his complaint direct to the president of the student council, he is welcome to do so at any time. Students having complaints to make are requested to turn them in immediately, so that investigation may proceed without delay. The new measure is not intended to be unreasonable, but is designed to clear up a situation which seems to be unique at Davidson, and which is most certainly undesirable.

Carleton B. CHAPMAN

Frosh To Try Out For Debate Team

Trials To Be Held Dec. 6 For Chance To Participate In Two Meets

In order that this year's peculiarly argumentative freshmen (who may be seen engaging in lengthy and voluble dispute and debate almost any Monday morning at laundry carrying time) may divert some of their surplus energy into more harmless channels, a couple of debates have been arranged for the first-year men. Trials will be held Friday, December 6, Harold Sugg announced to a group of about a dozen freshmen, who made known their intentions of trying out for the Freshman Debating Team. The freshmen team this year will have a little more opportunity of getting practice than in years previous, Sugg said. There will be one debate on, and one off the campus for the aspiring youngsters. The off-campus debate will probably not be out of the state, unless possibly in South Carolina. Freshman topic for trials will be the same as the Varsity try-out topic lastWeek which was: ‘Resolved that Congress should be permitted by a two-thirds majority vote to override a five-four decision of the Supreme Court.’ Either the affirmative or negative side of the question may be taken. A number of freshmen were present at the Varsity tryouts, Friday evening, and seem encouraged by what they heard. The team will be composed of two teams and two alternates. Speeches will be limited to five minutes, and though men will be allowed to discuss the topic among themselves or with upper-classmen, the speeches must be original. Material may be found, from which to work up this debate, in Room 6 of the Library.

French Honor Society Meets With Dr. Watts

The honorary French society, Le Cercle Francais, held its last meeting Tuesday night, November 19, at the home of Dr. G. B. Watts. A short business meeting was held before the program was begun. Scenes from the French play “Knock” were given by Ralph McClelland, Sam Cothran, and Val Cassels. This play deals with a quack doctor and his practice on two country yokels. It tells of the ridiculous remedies which he prescribed for them in a very humorous way. After these skits, Frank Tucker sang several songs and the members of the society played French games. At the end of the meeting, Mrs. Watts served refreshments to all of those present.

Col. Catts Visits Local ROTC Unit

Head of 4th Corps Area Well Pleased With Condition Of Local Armory

Colonel Catts, who has recently been given charge of the R.O.T.C. branch of Military Training in the fourth corps area, held an informal inspection of the Davidson R.O.T.C. unit here last Monday, Nov. 18. The Colonel was unable to attend the parade in the afternoon, but said he was pleased with the property and centralization of the local unit. In the morning, Colonel Catts called on President Lingle and later visited the Armory and spoke with Colonel Rhett, Major Cochran, and Major Seifert. He declared that he was especially impressed with the manner in which the property was kept. Colonel Catts saw combat service in France with the 319th Infantry and after the Armistice, he was assigned to the general staff AEF. He is a graduate of the Army War College, Infantry School, and Field Officer's course. The main purpose of the visit was to make personal contacts and become acquainted with those with whom he will work. A large crowd was assembled on the parade ground to see the battalion review and among those present was Congressman Bulwinkle. The congressman expressed himself as being pleased with the appearance of the corps. The inspecting officer was pleased to find that the R.O.T.C. unit here is placing much emphasis on making each man a good citizen, for this is the wish of the War Department. He believed that the R.O.T.C. should cause an appreciation of honor, duty, and love of one’s country. It should teach a man to stand on his own feet and look his fellow men straight in the eye. The War Department realizes that when a man is a good citizen he will make an excellent soldier.

Dr. Gwynn Talks Twice During the Past Week

Dr. Price H. Gwynn, professor of education, has made two addresses during the past week. Last Sunday he preached for the Myers Park Church in Charlotte. On Thursday, November 14, Dr. Gwynn went to North Wilkesboro. There he spoke for the Fathers’ Night of the Parent-Teachers’ Association, on the subject of “Modern Youth Facing a Changing World.” Dr. Gwynn will conduct the vesper services in the college auditorium next Sunday.

New Carpets Are Now In College Auditorium

Rubber runners have at last been secured by the college for the auditorium aisles, thus filling a long-felt need. When the present system of Sunday vesper services was initiated, the noise caused by the ushers and late arrivals was not felt to be in keeping with the spirit of the services, and the need for these runners for the aisles has long been appreciated. The three central aisles, those most needed, have been supplied with the carpets, made of heavy ribbed rubber which cushions the footfalls and effectively deadens the sounds. These runners will add materially to the life of the flooring of the aisles, preventing excessive wearing where traffic is heaviest.

ALUMNI JOURNAL

Alumni Publication To Feature Class Reunions And Campus Activities

The coming issue of the Alumni Journal will have several features of interest. The cover design will feature a very attractive view of the campus, looking towards the Eumenean and Philanthropic Halls, from the direction of Oak Row. There is to be a story on the opening of College, and details of the Homecoming celebrations. Another important announcement will be concerning the Centennial Commemoration Plates, to be made in honor of the Centennial Celebrations. The little boy with the boxing gloves who made such a touching appeal to alumni in the last issue will be featured again, pleading with loyal alumni to support the Alumni Association. There will also be featured a picture of the 1907 football team, as the classes of ‘08, '09, '10, and '11 will hold reunions at the centennial celebrations, and members of these classes played on the 1907 team. The Alumni Association is composed of all alumni of Davidson College. The President for this year is Hugh A. Query, '09; and the Treasurer F. L. Jackson, '06. As Alumni Secretary, Grier Martin edits the magazine, the organ of the Association. Regular features of the Alumni Journal are the Athletics section, entitled, “With the Wildcats;” “With the Faculty;” “Alumni Mail;” and “Alumni Deaths.” Alumni are kept in contact with the College, not only through the Journal, but through the files in the alumni office, giving addresses and information on all men who have passed through Davidson's portals. There are also local chapters of alumni, and class reunions, which are held every five years. The Centennial Gift Fund is being pushed by the Alumni Association. Present votes place five different causes practically neck and neck in the balloting to see to which cause the Gift Fund should be donated. These causes are: a Social Center; a Church; an Infirmary; a Library; and a Field House. Next after these comes an Alumni Scholarship system.

Dr. Foreman Speaks To Civitans in Charlotte

Dr. Kenneth J. Foreman, professor of Bible and philosophy, was the principal speaker at the weekly luncheon of the Charlotte Civitan Club at the Chamber of Commerce last week. In Dr. Foreman’s address, he gave an account of his impressions of New England during his stay there. He expressed the belief that the cities of New England are no different from the cities of the South, but that the small towns, in many respects, are more attractive than small towns of the South. “The New England countryside is beautiful and deserves its reputation in this respect,” he said.

WILDCATS DEFEAT VMI CADETS BY 14-6 SCORE

Pittman And Lafferty Are The Best Ground Gainers For The Wildcats

DAVIDSON SCORES FIRST

Teams Play Under Adverse Weather Conditions

The Davidson Wildcats gained their fifth consecutive victory in the annual game with Virginia Military Institute Saturday, November 16. The game ended with a 14-6 score that showed the ability of the Wildcats to work even under poor weather conditions. A small crowd watched the teams fight in the mud and rain on Alumni Field at Lexington. Although the Cadets under Roberson’s leadership, out-gained the visitors, Davidson benefited by Pittman’s and Lafferty’s running and a succession of fumbles and blocked punts. Davidson scored a first period touchdown after Clark's fumble was recovered on V. M. I.'s 14-yard line. Pittman ran around left end for a touchdown on the second play and placekicked the extra point. A Cadet drive of fifty yards failed when Windham recovered another fumble on the Davidson 30-yard marker. Twice again the squadron returned into Wildcat territory only to fumble the first time on the 22-yard line and lose the ball on downs at the 28-yard line in the second. Pittman kicked out to the V. M. I. 20-yard line where Cathey recovered Roberson’s fumble at the end of the quarter. Pittman attempted a placekick from the 19-yard line that was wide and short. The V. M. I. kick placed the ball in Davidson’s hands on their own 50-yard line. From there Lafferty ran 37 yards, but Clark intercepted a pass on the next play. Lafferty made another gain of 27 yards when Davidson received the ball in their own territory. The Wildcats followed with three sharp thrusts which the Cadets barely stopped. The ball went to the 21, the 34, and the 2-yard line only to be thrown back by the V. M. I. forward wall. The half closed as Davidson launched another attack on Cadet ground. The third quarter began with a series of fumbles, intercepted passes, and punts after both teams found it difficult to advance on the slippery field. On the last punt, Henry Cathey downed the ball on the V. M. I. 39-yard line. Pittman ran around left end on the third play for the first down. Armfield raced 22 yards on a spinner play for the second touchdown after eight yards of Davidson gains had placed the ball nearer the goal line. Pittman’s placement brought the score to 14-0. Pittman kicked to the V. M. I. team which took the ball thirty yards to the Davidson 36, only to fumble again.

New Vesper Plans Released by Lingle

Noted Speakers Featured On The Coming Programs

Dr. Walter L. Lingle, president of the college, has announced the plans for the church services held each Sunday night in Chambers Auditorium, at 6:30 o’clock, for the four Sunday nights before the beginning of the Christmas holidays. Dr. Price H. Gwynn, Jr., professor of education, will speak on Sunday night, November 24. Dr. R. E. Speer, who will deliver the Otts’ Lectures this year, will be the guest speaker at the service on Sunday night, December 1. Dr. Speer is a figure prominent in world affairs today and in the Presbyterian Church. Rev. A. W. Dick, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church at Fayetteville, N. C., will be the guest preacher on Sunday night, December 8. Mr. Dick is one of the younger men in the Presbyterian Church and a very interesting speaker. On Sunday night, December 15, the last Sunday before the holidays, the Y. M. C. A. will conduct a special Christmas vesper service.