THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 19, 1936

NETT CHOSEN AS THIS WEEK’S HONOR ROLL

Dunny Covington, Bronston Kenny, and Martin Bar- Basketball Stars by Jim Cothrane

INTERFRATERNITY SPORTS AFIELD HONOR ROLL

Johnny Armstrong and Bill Hancock Picked as Varsity Basketball Stars for this week by Fields Young

By HARRY KUYKENDALL

From Hamden, Conn., concerning Davidson, comes a letter which should prove of interest to all endowed with that Wildcat spirit. It reads:

“Sports Editor, The Davidsonian:

“Enclosed please find a newspaper clipping which is self-explanatory. This was clipped from the New Haven (Conn.) Register, February 12, 1936:

“As a member of the class of '34, though not a graduate, I turn the case over to you of a man who apparently lets his pen get ahead of his head, not only in Carolina, but in cities of size some distance away. I cannot sit idly by while this man writes so of Davidson, and I feel sure that you, as sports editor, will not be overly pleased with him yourself. Davidson, we both know, can and will give any school they meet a run for their money, and though our strength may not be the greatest, our spirit and good sportsmanship cannot be surpassed by ANYONE.

“Trusting that my feelings in the matter are shared by yourself, I remain,

Sincerely, ALFRED E. TORG.”

The enclosed clipping itself is part of a sports column written by David Mulvey, a sports writer. His message is plain. Graham’s plan, proposed by the president of the University of North Carolina, has been adopted by the Southern Conference and is a direct slap in the face to the Southeastern Conference, which recently went on record as favoring aid for deserving athletes, but openly.

“We are observing the reaction of a member of the faculty (unless we are mistaken), and one who is vitally interested in athletics.

“His latest letter, which followed immediately after the acceptance of the new conference ruling, writes:

“‘As you probably know by this time, President Frank Graham’s plan of de-emphasizing athletics has passed the Southern Conference ruling board. A vote of 6 to 4 set up the new regulations. Duke, South Carolina, Virginia Military Institute, and Clemson voted against it.

“‘Not only did they have to put the new plan completely through—even with a few more additions—but seemingly made the de-emphasis plan more convincing by granting invitations to Wake Forest, Davidson, William and Mary, Citadel, Richmond, and Furman to join the conference. In my estimation (and the same thought is shared by more than a mere handful) a win in the Southern Conference in the future will mean about as much as a Yale victory over New Haven High School. Richmond and Furman come nearest to being genuine conference caliber, but I can’t see letting in such small institutions as the others.’”

No good comes from mud-throwing; so, with that in mind, we pause here only long enough to say that our friend Ferguson, “a high-ranking scholar,” evidently has drawn from a source of information that has played him false. I personally have seen Duke and Carolina, who almost invariably lead this conference, defeated by Davidson.

(Continued on Page 6)

CAT MATMEN TOP COLUMBUS Y.M.C.A. 24-10 IN HOME MEET

Georgia Wrestling Team Defeated in Four Matches, Forfeit Two

BROWN WINS ON TIME

Blue Secures Only Davidson Fall in 5:04

The Appalachian State matmen eked out a heart-breaking victory over the Wildcats here Saturday night to a 16-14 count. Then the Cats came back strong to administer a 24-10 beating to the Columbus, Georgia Y.M.C.A. team here on Monday night.

Davidson 24; Columbus “Y” 10

In the first match, Blue won by a fall in 5:04. The next match was won by Moffett of Davidson, but at the end of the bout, neither of the two had gained enough time to win. Moffett, who has been ill for some time and who also suffered an injury, nevertheless secured the victory.

In the next match, Parker of Davidson wrestled Haines of Columbus. Parker “rooted” his opponent all over the mat to gain a tremendous time advantage of 9:15. Parker came very near to pinning his man toward the last of the match.

Owen was pitted against one of the best men in the 145 bout. Owen had it all his way throughout the match, gaining the largest time advantage of the match (9:40), and seemed to be thoroughly enjoying the bout.

Davidson gained a brief, but most exciting advantage over the Columbus entry when McCarty applied a “bear-hug” and won the bout by a fall after 1:45. The 165-pound match was forfeited to Davidson. Brown, Davidson (175), gained a 7:55 advantage over Fox. This was the final bout as the Columbus team forfeited the unlimited bout.

Davidson 14; Appalachian 16

Davidson’s chances to retain the State title were dashed with a defeat by the highly touted matmen from Appalachian State. This was the first time the Wildcats had suffered a team loss.

Blue, Davidson (118), won a time advantage over Patterson in 7:09. B. Norris, Appalachian (126), won by a time advantage from Moffett in 7:04. Parker, Davidson, won on a time advantage from Crooks by 4:16. W. Norris won on a fall over Owen in 6:40. Moore of Appalachian won on a fall over Bixler in 3:40. Captain Blackwelder, Davidson, won on a time advantage of 2:43 from Fartheri. Captain Hobbs, Appalachian (Unlimited), won over Brown by a time advantage of 1:15. Davidson held the lead (14-13) just before the final match, but Hobbs of Appalachian broke through to gain the three winning points over Brown. Coach Unger said only that “It was rather disappointing.” Captain Blackwelder said, “I’d rather not say or hear anything about it.”

GYM TEAM TO PRESENT EXHIBITION

Between the halves of the Davidson-Wake Forest varsity basketball game Saturday night, the gymnastic team will present another exhibition, this time composed of building individual pyramids and stunts. Members of the team are D. M. Stewart, J. B. Green, C. G. Smith, J. Y. Templeton, C. A. McKnight, D. Holt, P. Harris, J. M. Graves, J. W. Hickman, and Gene Vogler. The team presented an exhibition once before at the State game.

CHARLOTTE, N. C.

FAUL AND CRYMES, INC. SPORTING GOODS 415 SOUTH TRYON ST.

CONTINUE WINNING STREAK

Here is the Davidson Freshman Basketball Team, coached by Chet Chapman, which will play Wake Forest Freshman here Saturday night. Left to right standing: Grant Johnson, Bill Monie, Jack Lee, Ned Iverson, Cage Brewer, and Bill Boyd. Kneeling: Lock White, Norman McCullock, Perry Sloan, Allen Steele, and John Tice.

FOOTBALL MEN START SPRING GRIDIRON DRILL

McClelland Being Groomed to Fill Post Left by Graduation Of Wood Burns

After being postponed numerous times because of inclement weather, spring football practice finally got under way Monday. Over forty candidates reported and more are expected at the next practice. Like most Davidson football teams, the 1936 edition will be light but fast, especially in the backfield. One of Doc Newton's biggest jobs will be to fill the hole left in the center of the line by the graduation of Wood Burns. McClelland, who played end on the freshman team last year, is being groomed for this position in the hope that he will make a good pivot man.

The news of Morris Freeman’s departure from school struck a blow to the expectations of the coaches, as this lad had been counted upon to be one of the tackles. However, there are several others in line for this all-important position, the foremost of whom are Joe Hunter and Warden, a freshman.

In the backfield, of course, Paul Pittman’s loss is most serious. Lafferty, Dennis, Armfield, and Corbin will be back to “tote the leather.” There is another candidate who may prove valuable in the backfield. The fact that Sears is a Barium Springs boy says a lot for his football ability, as several of the best players Davidson has ever had have been from Barium. Sears came here as a freshman in 1932 but dropped out of school after the first semester. Now he is back to carry on.

The players will be drilled on fundamentals for some time before any practice games are held.When asked how long spring practice will last, Newton replied, “We'll practice till the boys are right, probably five or six weeks.”

Fighters Prepare For Silver Gloves Tourney

The annual “Silver Gloves” boxing tournament, one of the outstanding events of the intramural athletic program at Davidson College, will be held in the college gymnasium on the evening of February 27 and 28. Davidson

The preliminaries (Continued on Page 6)

Kittens Down Faculty To Continue Victories

Interfraternity Stars Named in Basketball

At the conclusion of the interfraternity basketball season, the following stars were chosen on the first and second teams as the best fraternity talent on the campus in that line. The selections were made by Heath Whittle, director of intramural athletics.

FIRST TEAM
F—Woodward - Pi Kappa Phi
F—Barnett - S. P. E.
C—Downie - K. A.
G—Bowles - Pi Kappa Phi
G—Kay - K. A.

SECOND TEAM
F—Lindsay - K. S.
F—Gregory - Phi Gam
C—Covington - Pi Kappa Phi
G—Gilks - Pi K. A.
G—Willingham - A. G.

Jay-Cee Bids Sent to Cats

Invitations to the annual Jay-Cee indoor games to be held the Monday night in Charlotte Armory were mailed last week. The invitation committee deliberated for a long time over the athletes nominated by track coaches before selecting what promises to be the fastest field of trackmen in any indoor meet in the south this year. Athletes have been invited from the following colleges: Appalachian, Duke, Tulane, Alabama, Georgia, Maryland, North Carolina, South Carolina, Virginia, V. P. I., and W. and L.

In last year’s meet, Davidson won two first and two third places out of the ten events. Earl Frazier won the two-mile run while John Lee vaulted over the bar at 12 feet 2 inches. A. J. Potter and Audley Gammon placed third in the shot put and high jump respectively. Wildcat athletes are entered this year in five of the ten events which are featured in the meet. The men who are representing Davidson this year are as follows: 50-yard dash by Frank Parker; Archie Shuford in the 1000-yard run; two-mile run by Billy Merchant who is captain of the Wildcat Track team; (Continued on Page 6)

DRUGS - CANDIES - SODAS - SMOKES
Davidson’s Oldest and Best
White Drug Store

Faculty Substitutes as Darlington Cagers Fail to Show Up For Tilt

The freshman team won a closely contested game from the Faculty Saturday afternoon. The Wildkittens led by two points at the end of the game after a 17-17 score at the half. Ned Iverson was the high-scorer with 23 points for the freshmen, and Tice followed with 11. Both Grier Martin and G. W. Johnson led the Faculty five with ten points apiece.

The Faculty started with a vigorous attack that placed them ahead and the score favored them until Iverson began to sink baskets with sporadic regularity. He made 13 of the Wildkittens’ total in the first half. Laird, Chapman, Johnson, and Martin all tallied for the faculty during the period. The freshmen drew ahead at the beginning of the second half. The faculty quintet tired in the strenuous action, using their only substitute; McGavock, and Boyd substituted for the yearlings. The faculty threatened the lead, but the freshmen held the winning margin at the end in spite of the tall and hefty professors. Every player for the faculty team scored, but Iverson, Tice, and Johnson were the only freshmen to score. Iverson’s accurate shooting and Tice’s active playing gave the Kittens the victory. Lee, center, and the guards did adequate defense work.

Rifle Team Completes Firing In Prone Stage

The Rifle team has been working on the range this week, shooting in the annual Corps Area Match, and have just completed firing in the prone stage. A. G. Myers, a freshman, turned in the high score for the week, with a 99 out of a possible 100 points. A. C. Warlick maintained the highest average, 98. Major Cochran said: “This com- (Continued on Page 6)

PATRONIZE DAVIDSON'S ONLY FIVE AND TEN
SOUTHERN 5 & 10c STORE
STATIONERY—CANDIES

Wildcats Break Even In Last Set of Games

PI KAPPA PHI’S TO MEET KA’S IN LAST GAME

K. A.’s and Pika’s Beat in Semi-Final Inter-Fraternity Cage Contest

In spite of spirited competition, the K. A.’s and the Pi Kappa Phis have moved into the final round of the inter-fraternity basketball competition. The Pikas lasted out the final whistle, scrapping the Kappa Sigs. Both teams used man-for-man defenses, and this close guarding resulted in the lowest scored game of the competition. Both teams showed fine teamwork, and the lead see-sawed back and forth from start to finish. Henry Cathey and Doug Neal each tallied three points to head the Pika scoring, while Bob Lindsay and Tom Henderson contributed four points apiece to the Kappa Sigs’ lost cause.

The K. A.’s came through strong in the closing round of the semi-final scoring, at the expense of the Pikas to win, 20-17. The K. A.’s opened the scoring, and kept their early lead by the scant margin of three points at half time. With the score 14-11 against them, the Pikas put on a prolonged rally to lead 17-14 midway in the last period. The K. A.’s then put the pressure on, and came through to top their opponents 20-17. Downey, Hutaff, and Neal stood out with nine points, while Neal's eight points topped the scoring for the losers.

In the other semi-final tussle, the Pi Kappa Phis upset the favored S. P. E.'s to the tune of 18-14. Flashing a spirited attack, the Pi Kappa Phis never relented their careful play enough to allow the S. P. E. scoring machine to get under way. With every man keeping close check on his opponent, and taking care to make every pass and every shot count, the Pi Kappa Phis built up an early lead, and then proceeded to hold it until the final whistle. Harmon Woodward scored six points and Bill Dyerly tallied three for the winners, while Martin Barnett’s six and Roy Gilks’ three were high for the losers.

Davidson Quintet Is Defeated By Duke in Hard Fought Game

CATS BEAT CATAWBA
Knorr and Peabody Are High Scorers For Cats

The new Davidson Wildcats with “the old Davidson spirit” kept up their sensational spurt of late by giving Duke a scare before losing, 36-33, and then winding up the week by taking the Catawba Indians into camp 25-24.

Davidson 33; Duke 36

Using the new combination, composed of Peabody, Niesewetter, Hancock, Quick, Armstrong, and Knorr, Davidson offered a serious offensive threat, and their sure passing coupled with sloppy floor-work on the part of the Blue Devils gave the Wildcats a 19-16 lead. Duke forged to the front early in the fray, and they enjoyed a 12-7 lead when Ken Knorr entered the game. Ken quickly racked up eight valuable points to put Davidson back in the ball game. Hancock followed with a field goal, and Armstrong tallied a free throw, while Coach Cameron's charges were able to chalk up but a single basket during this period.

After the half, with the score 19-16 against them, the smooth-working Devil quint, paced by the flashy Joe Riley, smoothed out its kinks of the first half to run up a 26-21 lead before the “Cats called time out. Immediately afterward, Peabody rang up a goal from the corner, but Podger matched this after a perfect pass from Riley. Peabody, Reid, and Cathey then scored goals in quick succession, and Peabody made a free shot good to tie the score, 31-all, with four minutes left. Cheek and Riley each caged a basket, Knorr counted a foul goal to end the scoring, and then Hereck scored his fifth goal to bring Davidson’s final score to thirty-three. (Continued on Page 6)

The Pi Kappa Phis and the K. A.’s are to meet this week for the championship, held last year by the S. P. E.'s.

Coach Pete Whittle announced today that the track season starts on Monday, the 24th of this month. This is for both varsity and freshman. All track men are requested to report to the gym sometime this week and draw their uniform.

Interwoven SPORTS “On THE GO”

New contacts when you travel... dress is important... you'll want appropriate hose... for formal and informal wear... exclusive Interwoven designs... colors. And you'll want Interwoven COMFORT.

2 pairs $1.00
75c and $1.00 pair
J. B. IVEY & CO.