Page Four THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 9, 1936

FOOTBALL STARS PICKED ON MYTHICAL ELEVENS

SPORTS AFIELD

BASKETBALL, WRESTLING TEAMS READY TO START SEASONS

“The greatest football team in the South was not at L. S. U., not at Alabama, not at Tennessee, but
at a small Presbyterian college cloistered (you may say) among the oaks up in North Carolina—Davidson College.”

The above are the words or the gist of the piece written by Ed (Ole Timer) Camp in an Atlanta
column. He went on to speak of the scarcity of material, the necessity of being an “iron man” team, and
the brilliant jobs turned in by McEver and Chapman. He referred to the great record turned in by the Dazzlers
as a team, and he named the players Dick Johnson, Capt. He said Capt. Johnson had been “a great leader”
and was regarded as the best guard in the Southern Conference. Teeny Lafferty was noted for his running back, and
Art Id and Tom Corbin created the would-be tackle. A fitting tribute by Camp to a great team at the
season's end.

National Hubbub

All-State! Blotts for Oceania out the fading king—Football. Called a giddy son—goofy, crazy, dopey, the stars must be heralded into
the Valhallas of their respective school—the all-something or other teams. However, when a team representing a school as small as
Davidson ties Duke and sweeps by State and Wake Forest, those boys really deserve mention. To us, these fellows are
just friends, but to those who've been picked on the mythical all-star team, we join in applause and say we're
justly glad you are getting those rewards.

This should be one of the banner years in the athletic history of Davidson. We've already had a great football
team, and now the prospect is that we will have one of the best basketball teams in the recent history
of the college. Captain Bill Quick and his mates are now engaged in a mad scramble for places. Seldom has
material been so plentiful or the places so hard fought for. From last year, Quick, Maurice Peabody, Bill Hancock, Wade
Barrow, Ken Knorr, John Armstrong, Bill Kiesewetter, Dick Cathey, Lawrence Reid, and Herman Yearwood have come back. Up from last
year’s sterling frosh quint come Grant Johnston, Bill Boyd, Ned Iverson, John Tice, and others. With the early practice going
at top speed, this is our year for a great record.

To those always inquisitive and eager to clamor for improvement, here is a note of cheer. One of the executives
in charge of athletics stated that next year one of the modern electric clock-scoreboards would be erected on Richardson Field.
Said he: “Whether the scoreboard is presented to us by some generous friend of the college or whether we are
forced to erect one ourselves, there will be one of the electric boards on Richardson Field next year.”

Which will be the bigger game this year, the Rose Bowl or the Sugar Bowl? It looks from here, the
best teams will play in New Orleans, but I don’t think the color of the Rose Bowl can be matched.
The best suggestion to me seems to be the one that calls for the support of the Sugar Bowl by
the Southeastern Conference. The champion of this group would invite an opponent. The distance wouldn't be so great, but, after
all, don't these Eastern teams really treasure that trip to California—and the Rose Bowl?

CANDIDATES FOR CAGE TEAM LOOK PROMISING

Coach Laird Has Best Material in Recent Years to Pick From

OPENING GAME DEC. 16

All Regulars From Last Year’s Team Return

Twenty-two men are working hard every afternoon, striving for positions on this year’s basketball team. There are so many men
of the same ability that it is difficult to pick the best combination. Last year’s especially good sophomore team should
produce a team right at the top of the Southern Conference. Among the most promising for positions are Bill Kiesewetter,
Maurice Peabody, Wade Barrow, Ken Knorr, and Bill Hancock. The center from last year is looking good, and J. D.
Hicks, Fred Caudle, and Jack Lee are giving him plenty of competition. Captain Bill Quick, Lawrence Reid, Herman Yearwood, and
the large squad of others make it planned to have a “B” team coached by Norman which will play a
schedule of its own. This team is intended to give these boys more experience than they would otherwise get, hoping
that they will make varsity material next year. Also, if sufficient improvement is shown, “B” team members will be promoted
to the varsity and varsity men demoted.

The first game of the season will be with Catawba College, Dec. 16. Last year the Wildcats won one game
and lost one by a close score. Catawba has all its stars back from last year—it should be a hard-fought
game. On Dec. 19 the Unique Furniture Co. team of Winston-Salem will come to the lair of the Wildcats for
the last game before the Christmas holidays. Among the luminaries on this squad are Dave McCachren—All-Southern-from Carolina; Sammy Bell—star from
Duke; Henry Fort, and Jack Seven.

Wrestling Champions Named

Seven intramural wrestling champions were crowned recently as the finals in the tournament were reached. The tournament for varsity and
freshman teams uncovered a good number of prospects. Parks Harrison, varsity coach, was in charge of the matches. He was
aided by Jack Branch, wrestling manager. The results are as follows:

118 lb.—Lowrance won from Lincoln, time advantage 6.25.
126 lb.—Houston won from Parcell, time advantage 4.15.
135 lb.—Alexander won from Futchenberger, time advantage 3.42.
145 lb.—Fort won from McFadyen, fall 6.34.
155 lb.—Sadler won from Hipp, fall 5.12.
165 lb.—Wilson and Brown (to meet later).
175 lb.—Bolin won from McLean, fall 6.99.
Unlimited—Graham won from Warden, time advantage 4.40.

From now on there will be two columnists instead of one on this page. I have asked Captain Dick Johnson
to continue to write for us, following his splendid job in his initial effort. For several years the sports department
has been criticized for not getting the inside or real dope on Wildcat sports. With the agreement by Dick to
continue this work, we hope to make sure our coverage is straight. It’s not (Continued on Page 6)

HONORED FOR GRID PERFORMANCES

Dick Johnson has been selected on the Southern Conference and All-State teams. He is acclaimed as the outstanding guard in
the Carolinas. Ed Armfield was high point man for the Southern Conference for the 1936 season. Joe Hunter has been
selected on the All-State and Collier’s little All-American football teams. Tom Corbin has received the Millis and Tim Pharr blocking
trophies. Bailey Williams has been selected to lead the Wildcats during the 1937 season. He was one of the outstanding
ends of the state this past year and should receive national recognition next year. “Teeny” Lafferty has received a position
on the All-State team; he ran second to Ace Parker in the contest for the most valuable player. “Teeny” is
alternate captain for next year. He made the second All-Southern team, missing out by one vote.

Cross Country Team Is Awarded Letters

Six members of the varsity cross-country team received letters this fall. These six included three seniors, one junior, and two
sophomores. The men receiving letters were as follows: F. A. Brown, H. L. Kuykendall, B. F. Parcell, W. W. Telford,
T. E. Walker, and R. M. Wilson. Manager Russell Patterson also received a letter. Kuykendall was captain of the 1936
team. Nine members of the freshman cross-country team received freshman numerals. These were: W. C. Fitzgerald, Dick Gammon, Joe Gammon,
J. D. Gilliam, R. O. Kellog, A. R. Kenyon, N. G. McFadyen, R. H. Miller, and W. W. Preston. Manager
Tom Breeden, of the freshman team, also received a letter.CRYMES, INC. SPORTING GOODS || 415 South Tryon Street . CHARLOTTE,
N. C.

FROSH BEGIN CAGE PRACTICE MONDAY

After Week’s Practice Squad Is Cut to Fifteen By Coach Chapman

The freshman basketball team held its first practice session Monday night, November 30, with a squad of 34 men out.
For the first week, Coach Chapman has been drilling the men on the fundamentals of the game with particular attention
given to passing and dribbling the ball. About three-quarters of the time every night is given to the fundamentals and
the other time is used in a short, lively scrimmage. Coach Chapman announced that the squad would have to be
cut down at the end of the first week due to the large number of men out.

TOM CORBIN GIVEN BLOCKING TROPHIES

"Cat Back Receives Awards Of H. A. Millis and Tim Pharr"

Tom Corbin, stellar blocking back on the Davidson football team, has been awarded the H. A. Millis blocking trophy which
is presented each year to the player in the “Big Five” who has sacrificed personal glory in the ball carrying
to run interference for his teammates. The selection of the Millis trophy back is made by a committee composed of
ten of the leading sports writers in North Carolina. By virtue of their award, Corbin will receive a specially made
gold medal while Davidson College will be privileged to keep a large silver scroll describing the award for the next
year.

Tom was also awarded the Tim Pharr trophy given each year by James Thompson Pharr ’12, to the best blocker
on the Davidson football team. The Wildcat coaches and many sports writers have been lavish in their praise of the
outstanding blocking work done by Corbin.

According to Doctor W. M. Jardine, president of Wichita University, 73 percent of his 1936 graduating class are already employed.

A notice at the University of Illinois: “A wildlife club for students — graduate and undergraduate will be organized.” Hm!

For practice: Hornsberger, Wood, Thomas, Harrison, Ficklen, Glenn, Tenney, Casali, May, Rice, and Rackley, Joyner, Phipps, Sitterson, Mooney.

Letters Awarded To Wildcat Footballers

Fourteen members of the 1936 Wildcat football team received letters in recognition of their work this fall, and three men
received service letters. Those men who received letters were as follows: E. M. Armfield, T. G. Corbin, F. W. Dennis,
L. S. Graham, J. L. Hunter, R. S. Johnson (captain), J. D. Johnston, M. L. Lafferty, J. N. Lee, H.
R. McClelland, F. K. Purdy, L. C. Vass, A. C. Warden, and Bailey Williams, who was elected captain for the
1937 team. Service letters were given to H. R. Clark, C. C. Quick, and T. G. Thurston. Managers L. K.
Hill, J. O. Branton, and D. R. Sellars also received letters. Of the men receiving letters, eight were seniors, four
were juniors, and two were sophomores.

BAILEY WILLIAMS IS SELECTED CAPTAIN

Teeny Lafferty Is Elected Alternate Captain

At a meeting of all the varsity football men last Wednesday, Bailey Williams was elected captain and Teeny Lafferty alternate
captain of the 1937 Davidson Wildcats. The leadership is placed in capable hands as a glance at past records of
Williams and Lafferty will show. Captain-elect Williams finished Darlington Prep, where he was a four-letterman, the president of his class,
captain of football, and end on the 1933 Mid-South team. He is one of the best flankmen in the state
and has a persuasive manner of spearing passes when there is any argument on his end of the play.

Alternate-captain-elect Lafferty’s ability and leadership have been in evidence since his start in Concord High and especially since his time
on the Davidson campus. A general survey discloses that already he has been placed on several mythical elevens, possibly the
most important.

Teeny Lafferty Is Chosen By Ted Husing For All-Atlantic Team

THREE MAKE ALL-STATE

Joe Hunter Is Picked For Little All-America

King Football has run his course and now the annual mania for selecting their mythical All-This or All-That teams is
descending upon the sports scribes, and Mr. John Q. Fan has an opportunity to indulge in his favorite indoor sport
and choose the team that he stoutly contends will lick the socks off any other aggregation that can be put
upon the gridiron. Many Davidson men were honored by being picked on such selections, especially three who were outstanding throughout
the season, gaining notice of fans, writers, and announcers. Dick Johnson, captain and star guard, was chosen on nearly every
All-Southern Conference team and on a great many All-Southern selections. Teeny Lafferty was chosen by Ted Husing on his All-Atlantic
team, which was selected from teams whose games have been broadcasted by the Atlantic Refining Company, including such aggregations as
Pittsburgh, Army, Navy, Northwestern, Duke, and Georgia Tech. Joe Hunter, tackle, made the Little All-America team, chosen by Collier’s Eye,
becoming the third Davidson man in as many years to be awarded this honor. Last year Dick Johnson won it
and the year before.

"The Gift Store"

$1.25 Value LAVENDER MEN SETS 89c

$1.25 Value WOODBURY’S MEN SETS 89c

$1.10 Value PINAUD’S BATH POWDER 69c

Xmas Wrapped CIGARETTES ALL POPULAR BRANDS 11c Per Pack $1.08 Per Carton XMAS WRAPPED

$12.00 Value GENUINE LEATHER GLADSTONE

and to the opening of the season when he has to give all of his time to the coaching of
the men who will do the most playing in the games. Accordingly, on Saturday, the following men were invited to
stay out for practice: Hornsberger, Wood, Thomas, Harrison, Ficklen, Glenn, Tenney, Casali, May, Rice, Rackley, Joyner, Phipps, Sitterson, Mooney.

DINE AND DANCE

Every Job a Good One

New Dutch Buffet and Grill

Welcome To Students

Standard Printing Company 117 Garland Court, Cor. 4th & Church Sts. Charlotte, N.C.

Xmas Tree LIGHTS 8 BULBS ASSORTED COLORS 69c

$3.75 Value CUTEX CLUB MANICURE SETS $3.19

CIGARS El Productos — Muriels — Hava Tampa — and All Popular Brands 98c to $4.50

SCHICK ELECTRIC RAZORS GUARANTEED $15.00

BOX STATIONERY IN ATTRACTIVE GIFT BOX 49c to $1.25

128 NORTH TRYON
