“of Pagliacci,” Tibbett’s Success Is Credited to His Thorough Training

Lawrence Tibbett will Appear in Charlotte, Saturday, February 22

TRAINED BY LA FORGE

Also Credits Wife’s Untiring Devotion

By ALTON CATES

“What’s the matter—got a stomach ache?” So spoke Frank La Forge, when Lawrence Tibbett, world-famous baritone today, first came to him back in 1922. “You don’t have to make such wry faces when you sing. And your breathing is all wrong. And ‘wind’ is not pronounced ‘wine’!”

Right there began as strenuous and as thorough a training as ever a singer had. La Forge put Tibbett through the paces. The future operatic star learned to open his mouth, to sing while taking setting up exercises, while rolling over and over on the floor, even while standing on his head with La Forge kicking him in the stomach. And never again did he say “wine” or “and-da” or “Holy Ghost.”

Tibbett gives all of the credit of his spectacular career and his truly magnificent voice to the grueling training received from La Forge and to the untiring devotion of his wife.

Today, Tibbett ranks perhaps as the greatest living singer, and certainly as among the greatest of all time. He is the leading baritone at the Metropolitan, where he has been for the past five years. It was at the Metropolitan that he made his greatest triumph in the title role of Gruenberg’s opera “The Emperor Jones.” Among his great operatic characterizations have been Ford from Verdi’s “Falstaff,” Rigoletto from the opera of that name, also by Verdi, the clown and Amonasro in “Aida.” He is amazingly versatile, and sings everything from operatic gems to some of the better specimens of popular music. “On the Road to Mandalay,” “The Glory Road,” “Shortnin’ Bread,” and “Clouds” are among the songs he has helped to make well-known.

The Boston American says of him: “Lawrence Tibbett is America’s greatest male singer. Whoever the composer and whatever the style, Tibbett meets the demands of the composition in all its varied aspects; in vocal tone, in musical phrasing, in clear enunciation, and in dramatic feeling.”

The Chicago Tribune says: “He possesses one of the fine voices of the present generation, he is a musician and an artist, and, on top of it all, he is a personality.”

Says The Chicago American: “Lawrence Tibbett is one of the most amazing musical phenomena of our time. The art of singing has no mysteries for him. He can do what he will with his magnificent vocal organs, and he wills to do everything. In volume he can produce anything from a divine pianissimo to a thundering and unbelievable power.”

Mr. Tibbett has won fame for himself also as a motion picture star. He was the first operatic star to appear in pictures. He played in “The Rogue Song” and in a film version of “The Emperor Jones.” Recently he appeared in “Metropolitan,” with Virginia Bruce.

Mr. Tibbett is in love with his art. He says, “I think I am the most fortunate man I ever heard of, because I am making a living by singing. Just singing!... A whole lifetime is not long enough to sound the depths of the art of singing. One must live it to make it go.”

Lawrence Tibbett has certainly lived his music. Tibbett will appear in Charlotte on the evening of Saturday, February 22, at the Elizabeth school auditorium, under the auspices of the Charlotte Community Concert Series. It will be necessary to have season tickets to hear him.

FLU SPREADS RAPIDLY IN NEAR-BY SCHOOLS

Several schools in the Carolinas have reported sieges of influenza. Because of the spread of colds and the flu, the boxing matches between Carolina and Duke that were to have been held last Saturday night were canceled. This was one of the results of the suspension of all public gatherings involving a majority of the students. This order was issued last Tuesday by Administrative Dean R. B. House of the University of North Carolina, who acted on the advice of Dr. W. R. Berryhill, the University physician, and faculty and student leaders.

French Group Meeting Will Feature Play

Program Will Include Play, Dialogue, Speech, Music, Spelling Bee

With a play, a comedy dialogue, a speech, music, and a spelling match comprising the program for the meeting, Le Cercle Francais, honorary French club, is looking forward to an interesting session next week and to a period of increased activity following a post-examination lull.

The program is topped with a short one-act French play entitled “Rosalie” in which members of the club take the leading roles. Miss Dorothy Johnson, Mrs. Grier Martin, and Woodrow Hassell compose the cast of the play which is a modern comedy of the bourgeois French family of Paris. Val Cassels and Jim Cothran are to present a comedy dialogue, “Dans une Rue de Provence,” as the next feature of the evening’s program. Following that, a short paper will be read by Frank Poe. The title of his paper is to be “Charmonix et Mont Blanc.” Concluding the program will be a spelling match in French and the rendition of several orchestral numbers by the members of the club who are so inclined. After the meeting, the usual refreshments are to be served to the members of the club.

During the very near future, Le Cercle Francais is planning several trips to nearby colleges where they will hold joint meetings with the French clubs of those colleges. The schools which will probably be visited first were announced as Winthrop and Salem. These other clubs are expected to pay Le Cercle Francais a return call also.

The meeting Tuesday, February 25, comes as the first meeting since the examinations began last month. The past week or ten days have been spent in preparation for the coming program.

Davidson Men Go to Charlotte ORC Meet

A delegation representing the Scabbard and Blade of Davidson College attended a banquet given in the Charlotte Armory last night for the National Guard and the Officers Reserve Corps. Tonight, the entire organization of Scabbard and Blade will be the guests of Major and Mrs. C. W. Seifert at a dinner to be given at the Major’s home.

SMART DRUGGIST

Customer in Drug Store (on Sunday morning): “Please give me change for a dime!”

Druggist: “Here it is. I hope you’ll enjoy the sermon.”—Pathfinder.

The one thing to remember about fighting is to fight with intelligence. But sometimes you can’t find a smaller man.

Among the GREEKS

BETA THETA PI—The regular weekly feed was held Sunday evening. Several of the brothers spent the weekend at home.

PI KAPPA ALPHA—Eight new men were formally initiated into the chapter last Thursday evening. These men were Parker Connor, Edisto Island, S.C.; James Currie, Clarkton; Addison Long, Statesville; David MacMillan, Norfolk, Va.; D. McKachern, Concord; Thaddeus Jones Turner, Pink Hill; John Raynal, Statesville; and Julian Webb, Charlotte. The newly initiated men gave an informal party at the house Saturday night. The out-of-town visitors present included Misses Edith Crooks, High Point; Eleanor Newman and Virginia Shaver, Salisbury; Mickey Long, Helen Grady, Jane Moore, and Katherine Archibald, Concord; Hanna Knowlton, Eleanor Mathewson, Mary McBrayer, Virginia Foster, Martha Jane Brooks, Charlotte; Lucy Long, Statesville; Mary Louise Moffett, Dot Johnson, and Julia Hobbs, Davidson; Frances Stough, Cornelius; Durett Coltrane, George Richmond, Concord; Wade Wilkinson, Brother Horton, Albemarle; Brothers French and Long of Statesville were also present. Dr. and Mrs. Shewmake chaperoned the social.

KAPPA ALPHA—Brothers Charlie Mauze, Sam Wurat, and Rey Harris received a big rush at the girl’s-break dance at Converse Saturday evening. Most of the brothers spent the weekend collecting property for “monopoly” boards.

PI KAPPA PHI—Epsilon Chapter held a feed Sunday night in the chapter house. Mitchell and Boobie Arrowsmith spent the weekend at their home in Florence, S.C. Tom Cameron also spent the weekend at home. Joe Hunter spent Saturday and Sunday “noseing” around in Spartanburg, S.C. Herb Willis is still recuperating from a big time at the mid-winter dances. Brother Dan Castle remains ill at the college infirmary. Brothers Deyerle, Chandler, Maples, and Howie answered the “be my Valentine” call.

By EUCLID FANT

“Stretch and that rubber brain of yours and concoct a highly satirical conception of how the paper goes to press—from beginning to end. Make it long. Turn in to 513 Watts by 3 P.M. Monday.”

That is the message which greets the eye of The Davidsonian reporter who is able to decipher the handwriting. From these sketchy instructions, he is expected to produce a forty or fifty-line story which will set the campus rocking with laughter, or buzzing with excitement, as the case may be.

As often as not, the luckless reporter is sent to interview Prof. Glutz on the speaker who will be in Davidson on the second Tuesday of December. The alleged interview will run something like this, if the reporter is bright and Prof. Glutz is in an especially communicative mood:

Q. Can you tell me where I can find Prof. Glutz?
A. I, ahem, am Prof. Glutz.
Q. Oh, pardon me. I thought he must be a much older man. Ha, ha. Professor, do you know anything about some man who’s going to talk here next month? On a Tuesday, I believe.
A. Yes.
Q. Well, could you tell me something about him for The Davidsonian?
A. Yes, I could.
Q. (Desperately) I mean, what’s his name?

Cars For Rent
GULF GAS AND OIL

Music Groups Give Weekly Air Concerts

Band Featured on Network Broadcast Varied Selections Offered

QUARTET SINGS TWICE

Singers, Orchestra Head Friday Program

The Davidson College musical organizations presented two radio programs last week. The first program was over the Dixie Columbia Network, Wednesday night, February 12, from 7:15 to 7:30 P.M. This was the second program over this network of the six to be presented. Through this Dixie Network, Davidson College has reached many southern states.

The program opened with the playing of “O Davidson,” which was followed by the “Children’s March” by Goldwan. Then the band continued with “Selections from H.M.S. Pinafore” by Sullivan. Geter Martin, alumni secretary of the college, made a short talk containing facts of interest about Davidson. The band and quartette joined together for the next number which was “Annie Laurie” by Lady Scott. This quartette was comprised of Paul Hudson, first tenor; J. D. Aden, second tenor; C. M. Ramseur, first bass; and D. Pfohl, second bass.

The program closed with a march “Americans We” by Fillmore and the signature air, “O Davidson.”

The second program of the week was over station WBT in Charlotte on Friday, February 14, from 7:00 to 7:30 P.M. This broadcast has lasted fifteen minutes for the last three programs due to a commercial broadcast, but beginning with this program, it has been returned to its former length of thirty minutes.Thirty minutes. These broadcasts will continue indefinitely at this period. As the broadcast was on St. Valentine's Day, the program was dedicated to this celebration. The musical selections were rendered by the Glee Club, the orchestra, and the quartet. These all united to carry to the radio public the famous love songs of the world.

Dime novels got their start toward popularity as Sunday School literature, according to Frank K. Walter, University of Minnesota librarian.

FEBRUARY 19, 1936.

Town Tattle

Mrs. Chris Matheson, of Shawnee, Oklahoma, is visiting her mother, Mrs. C. H. Hamilton. Weekend guests in the Hamilton home were Miss Mary Hamilton, of Lumberton, and Miss Lois Hamilton, of Taylorsville.

Mrs. Thomas Watkins was hostess to the As You Like It Club Friday night, February 14. Mrs. Watkins gave an interesting paper on "Nationalizing Our American Music."

A. I. Hobbs and Mrs. Maude entertained at a Valentine tea Friday afternoon, at the home of the former. The hours were from four to six.

The Twentieth Century Club was entertained at a progressive dinner Friday evening, February 14. The hosts and hostesses were Mr. and Mrs. J. V. Lore; Prof. and Mrs. Lewis Schenck; Prof. and Mrs. Ernest Beaty; and Mr. and Mrs. Cloy Goodrum.

The Davidson Public School reopened Monday morning, February 17, after a vacation of a week. The vacation was necessary because of the inclement weather.

Miss Sarah Withers, who is now located in Washington, D.C., will arrive in Davidson Thursday, to spend the weekend with her parents, Mr. and Mrs. J. R. Withers.

The Sorosis Club held its regular meeting Friday night, February 14, at the home of Mrs. T. E. Lathery. Mrs. W. A. Jetton was in charge of the program. An out-of-town guest was Mrs. Chris Matheson, of Shawnee, Oklahoma.

Mr. Frank Buckner, of the Duke Medical School, visited his mother, Mrs. Alice Buckner, during the week.

Miss Mary Black was hostess to the Will Kare Klub, Thursday evening, February 13.

Mr. and Mrs. Lawrence Slater, of Chicago, Illinois, were guests Saturday, in the home of Dr. and Mrs. G. R. Vowles. Mr. Slater is the traveling secretary for the Lions Club.

Marie Currie, of Clarkton, and Louise Sloan, are visiting Mrs. Thomas.

ASSIGNMENT EDITORS CAUSE LUCKLESS REPORTERS GRIEF

Q. Do you know what he's going to talk on?
A. No, I don't.
Q. That's all you know? Thank you, professor. I think I can write a good one on that.

And forth goes the reporter, to sit down before his typewriter, carefully setting it so that it only writes by wasting half of his paper. He then deliberately ignores the first half of the first page, and economically begins near its bottom. Before the story is well started, the dinner bell rings and he must start out at top speed for the boarding house. Having no afternoon class, he goes from there to the show, returning to his room only in time to dress for drill. At four-forty-five he climbs to the top of Watts with his story in his hand, and gives it to a pained assignment editor, who swears it is the last he'll get. At seven o'clock in the evening he reports at the office, where he sits by the fire and warms his feet, or cools his heels, for thirty minutes or more until the editors arrive. Then, from six throats, comes the shout, "Who wants a head?" It is his confirmed belief that the editor who thus ejaculated is in dire need of one, but our reporter, with an eye to the editorship, quickly and smilingly volunteers. He is given an article consuming two and one-half pages and containing, if generously considered, one idea. On the first sheet are written the numbers 12, 12, 12, 12; 9; 18-20; 2. Sitting at the table, if he can find a vacant spot at the table, the reporter borrows a pencil and tries to fit four ideas (one from the article, three from his head) into the count above recorded. He finds that he can’t abbreviate “fraternity” to “frat”; he decides that the editor is an ass. He finds that the count can’t vary more than 1-4; his decision becomes stronger. By nine o'clock he has the first two lines in an acceptable condition; by nine-thirty he has finished the first four; by eleven he has gradually completed the darn thing, and he signs out and goes to bed. On Tuesday he flunks two writs and misses five oral questions. On Wednesday the paper comes out, and two people read his article: he and the boy who wrote the head. Two people read his head: he and the boy who wrote the article. On Thursday he gets another assignment: and so it goes, ad infinitum.

Dr. Cunningham is Guest Speaker Sunday Evening

Siefert May Attend Camp This Summer

Name Appears on Tentative Assignment to Fort McClellan Duty

Pastor Emphasizes Relationship of Seclusion to Meditation

CITES SAINT PAUL’S LIFE

Galatians 1:17 Furnishes Text For Sermon

Taking his text from Galatians 1:17, "But I (Paul) went away into Arabia,” the Rev. Dr. J. R. Cunningham based his sermon last Sunday night on the general topic “The Ministry of Solitude.” In elaborating upon this idea, Dr. Cunningham, president of the Louisville Presbyterian Seminary and pastor-elect of the First Presbyterian Church of Winston-Salem, said that the incident of Paul going away into Arabia was a revelation of the true character and life of the apostle. He did not consort with flesh and blood but went into Arabia to be alone with God. Paul found in this wilderness not only his Gospel but also himself.

The name of Major Charles W. Seifert, infantry, Davidson College, recently appeared on the list of tentative assignments of officers for duty with the 1936 summer training camp at Fort McClellan, Alabama. Major Seifert’s name was mentioned in connection with the Infantry R.O.T.C. camp to be held from June 7 to July 18, which is the same group with which he was connected last summer. He has served on the Davidson R.O.T.C. faculty since 1931, and, if this appointment becomes effective, it will make his second assignment to summer camp duty since he has been here.

On the list of tentative assignments for non-commissioned officers for duty at the same R.O.T.C. camp, Sergeant Blanton K. Burton of Davidson was mentioned and also Staff Sergeant Jasper L. Kirby of Griffin High School, who was connected with this institution until his transfer last year. Colonel M. T. Co. was in charge of the R.O.T.C. training camp, which immediately follows the R.O.T.C. camp, last year, but those appointments for this year have not yet been issued, and so it was impossible to discover whether he would again serve.

The minister brought in several examples and showed how Moses, Elijah, John the Baptist, and Jesus Christ had to have times to be alone. In these quiet spots all spiritual leaders have grown in spiritual ability and grace. Throughout his address, the speaker emphasized the need of the ministry of solitude in our present mechanical life. “The business of faculty here, with the common man,” he declared, “is madness; rest is lethargy.” We must dig down deep into the wells of eternity for this solitude to get away where God and spiritual values become real and have a chance to express themselves. It is a hard lesson to learn but it is essential. “A crowd-centered life is always a stricken life.” To build and come to know God, we must all have our Arabias. As yet no one has discovered any substitute for prayer, meditation, and devotion. If we find that prayer is futile, it is not God's fault, but we have let the hurried life crowd out of our souls the time for this solitude.

Museum Has Gila Monster

In the college museum, located on the second floor of the north wing of Chambers, recently has been placed a Gila Monster, the only known poisonous lizard of America. The total length of the animal is about two feet, six inches of which is a short stubby tail. On each foot are five short claws or fingers. The entire body is covered with black and white bead-like tubercles which are in regular rows running around the body. For the most part, those on his underside are white, being tinted occasionally with a shade of delicate pink. On the monster's back, the tubercles are smaller than those on the underside, and most of them are black. There are several circles made of the white bead-like structures in the center of which is a single black tubercle. On the head, the tubercles are irregularly placed. The eyes are black and round.

This monster was obtained from Texas.

Freshman Receives Army Appointment

John Cleary Thompson, Davidson College freshman, received an appointment to the United States Military Academy at West Point on Monday, February 10th. Thompson was appointed to the academy by Representative Frank Hancock from the Fifth District of North Carolina. The appointee will undergo a physical and mental examination at Fort McPherson, Georgia, on March 3. This examination is necessary in order to enter the academy. After this, he will report at West Point for entrance on July 1. Thompson is a resident of Winston-Salem, North Carolina and a graduate of the R. J. Reynolds High School there. He entered Davidson in 1935.

Manager: “Are you sure you are qualified to lead a jazz orchestra?”
Applicant: “Absolutely. I’ve had five nervous breakdowns, was shell-shocked in France, and I live in an apartment above a family with twelve noisy children.” — Capper's Weekly.

Friends: “Have you got a garage?”
Motorist: “I don’t know, my wife just went down to get the car out of it.”