THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 13, 1936

SAE’S DEFEAT KAPPA SIGS FOR GOLF TITLE
Phi Gams, Pikas Are Beaten In Semi-Finals

The SAE’s won their first points by winning the golf championship from the Kappa Sigs, runner-ups. This is the first
year that golf has been included in the sports played by the fraternities.

STUDENTS GIVE RECITAL

A student recital by the pupils of Warren Perry Babcock will be given in the auditorium of Chambers on Saturday
night, May 16, at 8 o'clock. Also featured on the program for this occasion will be the Davidson High School
orchestra. A silver offering will be taken, and the proceeds will go to the work of the High School orchestra.

AMONG THE GREEKS

The SAE’s won from the Pi Kappa Alphas last Tuesday with a final score of 2 1-2 to 1-2. Brothers
Burgess, Marchant, and Howie went to Florence, S. C., Concord, and Bowles home to Fayetteville for the week-end. Marchant and
Fais defeated their opponents in the next match. On Tuesday, the Kappa Sigs were victorious over the Phi Delts. Norfleet
defeated Barnes and Carlson.

—Sigma Alpha Epsilon—

Norfleet-Carlson match was held at the Charlotte Country Club for a large score. Brothers Erwin and M. Nelson were also
present.

—Kappa Sigma—

The Kappa Sig-Kappa Alpha match was held at the University Club. Brothers Dee and G. Jones attended the annual house-party.

—Phi Gamma Delta—

Brothers Kiesewetter and Glass attended the house-party. Brothers McLean and Cook were also present.

—Phi Delta Theta—

The spring house-party was held last weekend. Brothers Reed, Wakefield, Hicks, Gambell, Meek, Payne, and Jones attended.

—Sigma Phi Epsilon—

Brother Jim Cothran was in Rock Hill. Brother Ovid Harris extended his trip to Georgia.

BUDDY YOUNG

Dr. and Mrs. Henry Young announce the engagement of their daughter, Miss Mary Young, to Mr. David Sample. The wedding
will take place in June.

CRIBBING GROUP

A group of students was caught cribbing during the final exams. Measures are being taken to prevent such incidents in
the future.

DR. T. W. LINGLE

(Continued from Page 3)

DR. VOWLES WILL SPEND SUMMER IN GERMANY

(Continued from Page 1)

Dr. Vowles will proceed to Heidelberg, where they will spend the remainder of the summer. They will also attend the
Wagner Music Festival and the 1936 Olympic Games. Dr. Vowles and his son will sail from Hamburg, Germany, for the
United States on August 6, to be back for the opening of school in the fall.

JUNIOR OFFICERS ARE NAMED

(Continued from Page 1)

Bill Deyerle and Robinson were named. Other duties of the staff will be handled by members of next year's freshmen
and sophomore classes. The business staff must see to the exchange of Davidsonians with other schools.

COMPANY “B” WINS TROPHY

(Continued from Page 1)

There was a list of seven movements. The captain had to determine and execute the proper movement himself. The contest
not only included how well a unit could execute a movement but also tested the abilities of the commanders to
give proper commands.Proper commands: Platoon drill with each platoon having six movements to execute. The platoons had six movements to
execute. As had been called, at 1:00 the battalion followed company field for five minutes before the platoon commanders derived
their own command. The judges for the movement were drawn up in the battalion. The judges' decision was final. The
competition was under the command of Major W. C. Branton, Commander of Scabbard and Blade. At the close of the
competition, the battalion cadet commander announced the results.

On Wednesday afternoon, the last drill and parade of the year were held, and at this time the awards were
formally presented to the winning units. The senior officers were also presented with their certifications of commission as Second Lieutenants
in the Officers Reserve Corps. Company B was given a cup as the symbol of its victory, and the members
of the winning platoon were given individual sleeve ornaments in recognition of their success. These trophies have been the goal
of the R.O.T.C. units on the campus for the whole year, and there was keen interest manifested in the competition.
The best-drilled soldier was also given an award Wednesday afternoon. The seniors will receive their actual commissions as soon as
they take the oath on May 31 or as soon thereafter as they become twenty-one years old. This drill competition
comes as an entirely new thing this year and has topped a very successful year for the military department and
the Davidson R.O.T.C. Corps.

ED ARMFIELD IS PRESIDENT (Continued from Page 1)
Each member meets and votes for the man he thinks best fitted for the office. The voting continues until one
of the candidates has received five votes, which is a majority. The Pan-Hellenic Council for this year provided a very
successful dance season, bringing several big orchestras to the college. Four dance sets have been given by the council throughout
the year. The Homecoming dances were held in the Charlotte Armory, the weekend of October 11-12, with the Clemson Jungleers
furnishing the music. The opening set was given at Hotel Charlotte, November 8-9. Music for these dances was rendered by
Jimmie Poyner and his band. The Mid-Winters, the highlight of the year’s dances, was held in the Charlotte Armory, and
Freddy Martin lent the rhythm to this terpsichorean weekend. Also, a tea dance and a carnival-like Bowery Ball were given
on the weekend of April 24-25 at the Charlotte Armory. Joe Burke and his Duke Ambassadors furnished the music at
this dance.

COVINGTON WILL HEAD (Continued from Page 1)
The Christmas play will be given about the middle of December. A presentation of original one-act plays will usher in
the work of the organization for the second semester. The club will conduct a playwriting contest, which will be open
to the entire student body. The three best plays submitted will compose this production. Work for the second semester will
close with the production of one or possibly two three-act plays in the late spring. A new feature which the
club will embody will be regular programs. The programs will consist of the presentation of original plays, reviews of current
plays, and other items of current dramatic interest. For the first time in the history of the club, the Masquers
plan to celebrate a “dramatic week.” During this week, several original plays will be presented, and several speakers will be
invited to speak to the club on different phases of dramatics. Contests for the best model stage set up and
for the best advertising poster will also be conducted during the week.

DAVIDSON OFF THE RECORD (Continued from Page 5)
Lewis Scheneck, Mrs. Heath Wartman, Frank Poe, and Harrison Isler walked from Charlotte to Davidson, via Huntersville, Cornelius, and on
foot to Davidson last Thursday night. Elmore Holt was dateless in his own hometown. Bill Broadway and Gene Liipfert: They
hadn't been told what to do. Did Jim Huntington appear worn and hackneyed last week? Next fall, remember that sin
will find you out. Take it away, Tiger Jim. So long until next time. Orville Love and Cecil Haight are
physics lab partners at Montana State College.

KA’s TROUNCE (Continued from Page 4)
Should they fail to do well in the two remaining competitions, the baseball and the varsity competition.

AVERY PATTON ADDED (Continued from Page 1)
Graduate Assistant in the General Chemistry Laboratories. Mr. Patton is a native of Greenville, S.C., and comes to Davidson from
the teaching staff of Seneca High School, Seneca, S.C. Rice Institute, Texas, gives an unofficial intelligence test to student campaigners
before elections.

The right slant on refreshment: It’s great to tip a bottle of Coca-Cola up and feel refreshment coming at you
full-tilt... ice-cold. That is the pause that refreshes.

Brazil is famous for coffee, but Turkey is famous for tobacco. The aromatic Turkish tobacco adds fragrance and flavor to
cigarettes. That’s why Chesterfields satisfy. It’s the right quantity of this Turkish tobacco blended and cross-blended with the best home-grown
tobaccos raised in this country that give Chesterfields their mildness and better taste—another reason.
