6 THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 29, 1936

Tar and Gravel Applied To Roadways of Campus

Roads Need Resurfacing Annually to Keep in Condition; Work Usually Done Later

By Jack Rose

Dust clouds coming from the direction of the “D” were raised by a big centrifugal blower that was cleaning the
roadway in preparation for resurfacing with tar and gravel. This work is being done at this time for vacation so
that the Concord road will receive less wear.

Beta

Jane H. Montague of Clinton; and Florence Pi Kappa Claudiana Ey, Addis Dunlap and Perry.

Phi Delta Theta

Alice Palmer, Jacksonville, Fla.; Helen Frances Hoogh, Putney.

Fleagle Nabs Drunk Driver Near Wilson

Patrolman Fred B. Fleagle, son of Prof. Fleagle, is doing his duty. Patrolman Fleagle caught Wil- Taylor, a 38-year-old Wilson
farmer, zig-zagging a wagon from one side of the road to the other. He arrested him and escorted him to
the local police station, where he was placed under a $50 bond. The blotter charge read “drunk.” Fleagle, of the
class of '33, was a member of Kappa Sigma society, the Pan-Hellenic, and track.

Jacksonville, Fla.; Merle Hattiesburg, Miss.; Susan Knowlton, Memphis, Tenn.; Ninette Carter, Atlanta; McDowell, Wardlaw, Columbia; Meek, Charlotte; Wir- Gaffney, S.C.;
Salisbury.

Margaret Frances Pharr, Betty Se- ilon—Jean Orr, Calder, Mary Bettsie; Mary Louise Mof- Mary Smith, Rocky Wilson, Sugg, University of
Tennessee, Dot Melchor, Moores- Margaret Ruth.

CAPTAIN D. L. HARDEE

(Continued from Page 1)

Any grade 1 on sixing average; Ma- tic Pistol; Marches; Id Inspection; average; Musketry; Rifle; and Characteristics. The inspector stated
that the averages are not print at this time. Freshman in- lows: Military; National De- Military; and HAD. There were
no marksmanship. The final average will be between 9 and 95.

On Friday at 2:15, the regular preparation field inspection to Richardson Field. The march in front of calisthen- several ex-
mand of inspection through command. B were various strength led through various movements under the Lieutenant Mickley. Squads of Company
D were chosen to do squad drill. Several movements in close and extended order were executed under the command of
Dade and Ingram. Company C showed that he was satisfied with all departments. The inspector was well pleased with the
appearance of the corps, particularly the band. The band received the approbation of the inspector, not only for general appearance
and playing, but for cleanliness of instruments.

Notre Dame's Laetare Medal was awarded this year to Richard Reid, a Georgia lawyer and editor. Vandals recently wrecked the
offices of the Columbia Spectator and the Jester, a humor magazine.

Anderson, Mercia Scott, Florence Bailey, Betty, Ann Dixon.

A. McCLURE ORDAINED

(Continued from Page 1)

Recently vacated by Sam Wiley. He was appointed for the third year in that position, but he plans to leave
if an opportunity to take a church arises. His departure from Davidson would be regretted, but he expects to continue
here in the fall. Dr. White asked Mr. McClure the questions required by the church. As these were answered satisfactorily,
the five ministers concluded the ordination with the laying on of hands. Dr. Richards delivered the ordination prayer at this
time for Mr. McClure as he joined the ministry. The beautiful charge was given by Dr. Arbuckle, and the benediction
delivered by Mr. McClure. Dr. Arbuckle’s three-point message was the necessity of preaching the word of God, the need to
keep one’s personal life pure, and to the noblest commission, the ministry. The service closed with a sincere and definite
call to the highest gathering of the souls of men.

CLASSICISTS NAME

(Continued from Page 1)

Latta has no equal in any language. The leaders of this campaign will be given space in the daily newspapers
and pamphlets will be sent out. Parents with children in the public schools will be appealed to apply pressure on
their offspring to take Latin. Textbooks have been printed simplifying beginners’ Latin to such an extent that no one will
have any trouble getting started.in this subject in a way. Acquaintance with an elementary Latin syntax is an open doorway
to the mastery of English grammar and that of other modern languages.

Davidson's Oldest and Best

"Horseback riding gives me a headache."

DAVIDSON SYMPHONIC BAND PRESENTS LAST BROADCAST OF YEAR

“O Davidson,” “Wake Awake,” “Blue Danube,” “Triumphant” on Program

The Davidson Symphonic Band presented the last broadcast of its series on Friday night from 10:15 to 10:30 o'clock. In
Mr. Pfohl’s absence due to attending a music conference in Greensboro, A. Moreland Cunningham conducted the broadcast. The band presented
a very interesting program which was opened with the playing of “O Davidson.” The first number was “Wake, Awake,” by
John Sebastian Bach. Then the band played the “Blue Danube,” by Johann Strauss. In a brief talk, Wilbur Edwards presented
the news from the Davidson campus and announced the fact that this was the last broadcast of the season. Then
the band continued by playing a concert march entitled “Triumphant,” by Jay Olivadoti. The broadcast was closed as usual with
the playing of “O Davidson.”

ALSTON INVOKES “Y” (Continued from Page 1)

Mr. Alston led in a dedicatory prayer. The new cabinet will go into effect Wednesday night at a joint meeting
of the old and the new cabinet. The meeting will be held at Dr. Arbuckle’s, where the new members will
take office after a dinner.

DR. W. L. LINGLE (Continued from Page 1)

once a year and have a big dinner, program, and celebration. Old Midway was a church made up of outstanding
people. From it have gone out more ministers, missionaries, governors, congressmen, and senators than from any other church in the
country. Dr. Lingle’s subject was: “The Historic Background of the Founders of Midway.” After leaving the old church which is
situated thirty miles below Savannah, he returned to Savannah to preach at the Independent Presbyterian Church there, which is also
old, having been founded by the Scotch Presbyterians about the same time the Puritans started Midway. His sermon was broadcast.
Dr. Lingle said that though it was a hard trip of much traveling and much speaking and little time for
sleep, still he enjoyed it, especially meeting quite a number of Davidson alumni at both places.

J. K. ABERNETHY MADE FINANCE BOARD HEAD (Continued from Page 1)

Davidsonian, is a member of Sigma Phi Epsilon social fraternity, the Eumenean Literary Society, and has served as secretary-treasurer of
his class. He is also a junior baseball manager and a cadet sergeant of Company A. Hal Overton, rising editor
of the humor magazine, is a member of Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity, Sigma Upsilon, and International Relations Club. During
the past year, he has served as art editor of The Yowl, managing editor of The Davidsonian, and a member
of the Court of Control, and has served on other staffs.

VOGLER PLANS TO ISSUE (Continued from Page 5)

The head cheerleader plans to put a few new turns and twists in the contortions of his men next year
in an effort to draw forth more enthusiasm. He hinted at some special features to be displayed before the stands
on Homecoming Day. Gene is looking for those men who with mighty expulsions of wind cause the familiar F-i-r-e to
echo down Dormitory Row. There will be the usual four assistants elected to help the head cheerleader from those trying
out. Vogler wants as many as will to try out for no one knows how loud he can yell until
he has to make himself heard over thousands of other voices. Come on Sophomores, let's make those Wildcats r-o-a-r!

DR. DAVID HOWARD (Continued from Page 1)

Dr. Howard is survived by his mother, Mrs. D. H. Howard, Sr., of Lynchburg, Va.; and three sisters, Mrs. Joe
Carter, Chattanooga, Tenn.; Mrs. Christopher Ryan, Richmond, Va.; and Mrs. S. L. Slaughter, Lynchburg, Va.

CHRIST NEEDS NEW LEADERS

Union Theological Seminary, Richmond, Virginia. (A Serial Advertisement)

To the Christian Students of Davidson College:

When the Great Commander is ready to give you your orders, He will not stand in person beside your table
saying, “Follow Me,” as He did to Matthew. Nor will He strike you down with a great light, like Paul.
Rather, He will use the surrounding circumstances and your common sense—perhaps, a reminder like this. Do you see a great
malady threatening all humankind, waging war on society and on the souls of men? Maladies cry for remedies—likewise for treatment.
This depression, which is primarily spiritual, can be cured by one remedy only, the Gospel of Jesus Christ. Maladies and
remedies placed side by side do not offset each other. Remedies must be applied by a person.

(To be continued in this space later)

(If you would like to see this entire series in one setting, write for a copy to Ben R. Lacy,
Jr., President, Union Theological Seminary).

SPECIAL 50c VALUE—29c—on—CASCADE STATIONERY

White Drug Store VALUES 75c VALUE—49c

© 1936, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.

... and now throughout the world smokers are saying Satisfy the SANTA MARIA Columbus’ Flag Ship

History tells us that when Christopher Columbus’ sailors took tobacco back home with them everybody hailed it as one of
the first new pleasures in years. Today tobacco gives more pleasure to more people than ever before. Many different claims
are made for tobacco, but most everybody agrees on this... Smoking is a pleasure and the cigarette is the mildest
and purest form in which that pleasure can be enjoyed.
