THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 30, 1936

PROF. BLYTHE ENJOYS TRIP

WILDCATS HAND WOLFPACK

BAND ATTENDS

PFOHL IS TO ARRANGE

"Sconce" from Page 3 (Continued from Page 1)

FACULTY DIRECTORY

Professor Office Address Side of Street Location Phone

Arbuckle, H. B. 111 Glendale Road 2nd house from forks of Rd. 47
Babcock, W. F. 111 Main Street 170
Ballard, J. N. 136 Concord Road Right 1st house 56-j
Brown, C. K. 221 Concord Road Left Below T. W. Lingle 212
Burton, S. Charlotte Road Left side of Ry. beyond town
Currie, A. 316 N. Main St. Left 2nd north of Tank
Davidson, C. Library Concord Street Right 3rd house 71
Erwin, E. J. 336 Thompson Road Right 1st house 128
Fleagle, F. K. 303 Woodlawn Avenue Right 6th house 114
Foreman, K. J. 3-b N. Main Street Left 4th south of Cemetery 66
Fulcher, H. E. 127 Woodlawn Avenue Left Next to last house 47-w
Goldiere, A. V. 216 N. Main Street Left 1st beyond Cemetery
Harding, C. R. N. Main Street Left 2nd from Shearer Hall 68
Hengeveld, F. W. 183 Concord Road Right 7th house 146
Hobart, I. D. Woodlawn Avenue Left Last house 19
Hood, F. 235 Concord Road Left 5th from Forks 112
Jackson, J. 136 Concord Road Right Across Frat. Court 55
Johnston, F. W. N. Main Street Right 2nd house 6
Kimbrough, J. T. 319 Concord Road Left 4th house
Laird, G. F. 202 Thompson Street Right Last house 83
Lilly, H. T. 217 South Street Left With Dr. J. W. McConnell 123
Lingle, T. W. 217 Concord Road Left 1st house top of hill 125
Lingle, W. L. 101 N. Main Street Right 1st house 94
McClure, A. B. Concord Road Right 1st house 18
McConnell, J. W. South Street Left 1st house south of Theatre 123
McEver, E. N. Main Street Left Next to last house 75
McGill, M. W. 192 Concord Road Right Across from Frat. Court 85
Mebane, W. N. 125 Woodlawn Avenue Right 4th house 134-j
Newton, W. S. 202 Lorimer Road Right 2nd house

(Continued from Page 1)

Professor Blythe took his first airplane flight and he went off the deep end the first time too. He boarded a big, modern Douglas airliner belonging to the Pan-American Airways and flew 700 miles over the wilds of Ecuador and the billowing Pacific to Lima, the capital city of Peru. From Peru, he steamed down the long coast to Valparaiso, Chile, and from here inland to Santiago, the capital, he went by train. Another flight took him, at an altitude of three miles, across the great Andes range of mountains to Buenos Aires, Argentina. Upon leaving Buenos Aires, his next stop was the colorful Rio de Janeiro, capital of Brazil. After Rio came New York and home with the exception of fighting a hurricane off Cape Hatteras.

Many and varied were the things Professor Blythe saw, did, and watched. In Sao Paulo, Brazil, he visited a huge farm, said to be the largest of its kind in the world, where they raised poisonous snakes. Imagine being a tenant on such a farm! Mr. Blythe said there was some of the best horse racing in the world in Santiago, Chile, and Buenos Aires. The cities on the coast of Chile had an aroma of their own. Of course, said the professor, when asked about the South American cities, there are casinos, clubs, and cocktails.

For the past two years, Davidson College has attracted widespread attention by its splendid radio programs. These programs were under the direction of Grier Martin, former Alumni Secretary, who was aided by Professor Pfohl, head of the music department. The broadcasts were heard through the facilities of the nationally famous WBT in Charlotte, N. C.; first directly from the studio in Charlotte and later by remote control facilities from the college campus. This year Professor Pfohl has been put in complete charge, and he promises programs measuring up to, and, if possible, surpassing the high standards set by their predecessors. As yet, any information as to the length, time, nature, etc. of the broadcasts is being withheld at the request of the president of the college and of Professor Pfohl, until certain important matters can be dealt with and arranged.

Jack Goodykoontz Enrolled At Chicago Seminary

Jack Goodykoontz, class of '34, Davidson College, is enrolled in the M.A. class of the Chicago Theological Seminary. This is the one hundredth year of the seminary.been given out, Patton, A. 219 Concord Road Right 4th house 107 hundred and seventh year Coa ltag 1 {hours where one] thrown back and Davidson | fe} but after the first meeting, the staff Pfohl, J. C. 101 Woodlawn Avenue Right 3rd house 17 ag n mingle socially. He said he| ball on her own twenty-three | expects to have a better idea of] Porter, W. L. 226 Lorimer Street Right Last house 137 their prospects. The first date of | Rhett, J. T. N. Main Street Right 2nd house 147 the first semester... Dr. John Tim-| |. of the tables | professor Blythe took many little COLLEGE HEARS decided on at that time. Richards, C. M. 202 Concord Road Left Next to Lyon 156 At one of the “semi: | professor Blythe took many little COLLEGE HEARS decided on at that time. Ross, H. Concord Road Right 3rd below Frat. Court 57 nary, was in Suk from the principal Seifert, C. W. Gold Road Left Road of Dorm. Row 127 convocation BEAT, (Continued from Page 1) Sentelle, M. E. S. Main Street Left 2nd north of Theatre 102 the y are college . tem-| the truth and the life. ONE HUNDRED AND TWELVE Shephard, N. 143 Woodlawn Avenue Right 5th house A Dr. Moffett went on to point out (Continued from Page 1) Lorimer Ave. Left Goodykoontz was active in the| that we should form our own convictions, and make them of the right sort by placing them under the supervision and scrutiny of God, we have only one life to live. How are we going to live it? What key of Thompson, Ga.; Bid-| Williams, J. P. 204 N. Main Street Right 3rd house 170 Wood, W. W. 234 Woodlawn Avenue Right 7th house 151 The directory is given in the above manner for the convenience of the students, as the houses have no numbers. The direction is taken as going from the campus to the house. AMBASSADORS WILL PLAY (Continued from Page 4) Jim Farley had (Continued from Page 1) financed by having regular monthly payments for the tickets. It is expected that the same system will be used this year since it worked so well last winter. This year payments will be about $1.50 each month. Phi Delta Theta—Harper Beall of Lenoir; Roy Burton of Asheville; Bud Gilmore of Atlanta; Tommy Glen of Spartanburg, S. C.; Lauchlin Hunter of Alexander, Ala.; Dick Kenyon of Gainesville, Ga.; Warren Sigma Phi Epsilon—Wesley Cog-| Elizabeth City. Gamma Delta—Herbert Bo-| cord; John Rider of Winston-| Ludlow of Meridian, Miss.; Char-| hill of Rocky Mount; Tony Casli, Knoxville, Tenn.; Kenneth} Salem; George Stowe of Belmont;] lie Luther of Beaufort, S. C.; Ned] of Welch, W. Va.; Johnny Crabb of and Warden is an (Continued from Page 1) Darby of Florence, Ala.; Tom Fin-| and John Troop of Water Valley,| Iverson of Miami, Fla.; Rea Ten-| Midland, Texas; D. V. Dixon of equal in reserve to accredit the| ley and Idan McKee of Greenville,| Miss. ney of Atlanta; Charlie Mashborn] Kinston; Ed Cloyd of Raleigh; Bob Navy Game Looms new reciprocal. Miss.; Dan Gillum of Washington, Phi Delta Theta—Harper Beall of }of Atlanta; Lee Ogborn of Sara-}] Doty of Rogersville, Tenn.; Char- Duke and State are history. Navy and V. M. I. take their places of importance. Dr. Blythe's first rated high in America and he enjoyed it and participated in it. Buenos Aires and Rio de Janeiro are beautiful young Argentina, and cotton tight feet high in Peru, and down there they get heat. CABINET STARTS (Continued from Page 3) other activities of this Air sounding communities are led by the Y Cabinet and can freshmen felt especially urgent this year, the Cabinet started a der $30), with which to work head-quarters. The has been MIN ANY, two men then Duke on These our opponents’ plays as well as they know our Cheerful, happy and sturdy foes to all teams, these boys make the stars COME ON, tomorrow, KITTEN TEAM (Continued from Page 4) Pubby Hand. the lightest terian eleven in several years, the This Presby- ant coach, team is also line averaging 155 pounds and the backfield 140 pounds. Following this opening game the Freshmen travel to Spartanburg to Wofford there on October 9. They next play host to the Duke Imps in a game on October 23. The Frosh then go to South Carolina at Columbia, in a night game on November 6. They close the season by playing Blue Ridge School for Boys here on November 21st. TOWN TATTLE The Book Lovers Club had a picnic Friday afternoon at Dr. Matheson's Cedar Lodge. The Lodge is located on the Charlotte-Concord highway. The husbands attended this meeting. CATS WILL WHIP NAVY well-equipped wood- other a meet- other and the Scouts or first four work, teams be athletic competition of this community the three. or the During weeks of organized for will the boys and the mill village. Later on Boy Scout troops and Cub packs will be assembled. The new hut will be the central meeting place; troops will be organized in other nearby towns. CAROLINA AND DUKES (Continued from Page 4) looked even better than last year’s state champions as they put on a dazzling display of intricate passes and trick plays. It is entirely too early to predict a champion, but V. M. I. and Washington and in Virginia, Duke in North Carolina, and Clemson and in South Carolina looked pretty good in their first games. Lee Furman TAILOR-MADE HAIRCUTS NORTON’S BARBER SHOP All We Ask Is A Trial ... for tobacco cut right to smoke right There’s a right way to carve a chicken or slice a ham. And there’s a right way to cut tobacco. When the tobacco in your cigarette is cut the way it is in Chesterfield... right width and right length ... it burns even and smooth... it smokes better. © 1936, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.