Junior Officers Initiated Into Scabbard and Blade

Lads Appear on Campus at 5 A.M., Draped in Fantastic Uniforms

HAVE BROOMSTICK GUNS

Impressive Drill Is Staged Near Church

“What fine new ROTC uniforms!” “Who were those men who marched by here this morning? Marines?” Questions and remarks such as these filled the air on the morning of Thursday, May 7. But such surmises were wrong: Scabbard and Blade was merely holding its informal initiation for the members of the rising senior class just bid to the society.

At 5:00 o'clock A.M., the poor lads had to arise and to appear in full uniform for drill. The uniform was most fantastic, blue denim coats and pants, with olive drab roll-leggings, topped off with brick-filled knapsacks. Soldiers of this caliber deserved superior weapons, which they had in the form of broomsticks.

In chapel, the initiates were forced to make original announcements, many of which took the form of remarks directed against Cokey Branton, master-of-ceremonies for the day. This worthy person retaliated with a command for squad open-order drill immediately after lunch, near the church.

As a result, the ears of students returning from the post office or from their boarding houses were greeted by cries of “Hit it! Advance! Hit it!” and their eyes beheld strange visions of blue-draped figures, flinging themselves upon the earth, only to rise and trudge forward a few more steps. All this the prospective members underwent while carrying a load of bricks upon their backs.

The final humiliation of the occasion was the watch kept by the new men until midnight. Then, and then only, they threw those bricks from their backs, broke in twain their broomstick rifles, and slipped off those cursed jeans. You see, it takes the “stuff” to join “this man’s army!”

CINEMATIC COMMENTS

Wednesday, May 13
The Moon’s Our Home
Climb aboard for a dizzy ride through a world of delightful madness expertly negotiated by Margaret Sullavan and Henry Fonda. A movie actor and a globe-trotter, while traveling incognito, fall in love and get married. When they find out the truth about each other, and with Charlie Butterworth thrown in, the fun really begins.

Thursday, May 14
These Three
This is the screen version of a sensational stage play, “cleaned up” to offer the story of a vicious little child whose wagging tongue nearly ruins the lives of three people. With Merle Oberon, Miriam Hopkins, Joel McCrea, and Bonita Granville.

Friday-Saturday, May 15-16
Under Two Flags
Incorporates romance, action, and high drama, the scene being laid at an Arab-surrounded post in the Sahara. With Claudette Colbert, Ronald Colman, Victor McLaglen, and Rosalind Russell, it promises to be one of the major pictures of the year.

Monday, May 18
Everybody's Old Man
Mr. Cobb, the author of the play, takes the leading role. He portrays a retired meat packer, who hates only a rival packing plant. Rochelle Hudson and Norman Foster add the love element to the story.

Tuesday, May 19
Naughty Marietta
A reprint of that excellent picture featuring Jeanette MacDonald and Nelson Eddy. Scene laid during the good old days when this country was first being settled. The story rings with the sound of the voices of MacDonald and Eddy.

TO RELEASE ANNUALS

Within a short time now the annual for the term which is rapidly drawing to a close will be ready for distribution, according to a recent statement of Martin Barnett, editor of the annual. Barnett stated further that all the material for the publication will be in the hands of the printer tomorrow. Barnett expects that the annual will be ready for distribution among the students in about ten days or by the beginning of examinations at the latest.

CLASSES HOLD JUNIOR-SENIOR BANQUET

High School Banquet Given in Chambers; Edward Jackson Presides

The annual Junior-Senior banquet of the Davidson High School was held Friday night, May 8, in the banquet hall of Chambers Auditorium. Edward Jackson, of the junior class, was master of ceremonies, and Kenneth Foreman, toastmaster. The welcome speech was made by Shirley Parker, president of the junior class. Immediately following came a toast to the seniors by Kenneth Foreman. Cyrus Colvin, president of the senior class, responded to this. To add variety, the waitresses gave a stunt between toasts. Several songs were also sung. Virginia Isenhour then made a toast to the teachers, and Miss Mary Richards responded.

The dinner followed these short speeches, and during it, the seniors were further entertained. Inez Sherrill, of the junior class, read the class prophecy. This was followed by games which were arranged by Julia Hobbs and Stella Johnston.

One of the features of the program was a piano team of Bill McIlwinen and Frank Tucker from the College. They played “Tiger Rag,” “O Davidson,” and other selections. Mrs. Gaffney had charge of the banquet and was assisted by Mrs. A. L. Hobbs and Mrs. E. F. Shewmake.

CRIBBING GROUP ORGANIZED AT OHIO

Unite to Discover Ways and Means of Baffling Unwary Proctors

Columbus, Ohio.—(ACP)—The hand that never rocked a cradle may nevertheless be an old hand at the crib. Not to be outdone in the mad race of American undergraduates to organize, Ohio State students have formed the University Society for the Promulgation of Cribbing (unrecognized, so far, by the Dean's Committee on Student Affairs) and their researches have brought to light many esoteric and devious ways of confounding the unwary proctor.

The commoner methods, such as cuff-writing, are frowned upon by the USPC, which is interested rather in investigations like that done by a NYU researcher who discovered that crib notes could be written with grapefruit juice on glasses or watch dials. Another favored method is known as “the scroll.” The despairing student makes his notes on a long strip of paper, which he attaches to two match sticks and rolls up into a scroll. Use of this device, as in the case of the co-ed’s handkerchief system, calls for some knowledge of histrionics, since a certain amount of hand-wringing is indicated while peering at the notes.

The “pedal transfer” is recommended in cases where a pal needs aid. A note is prepared, and one foot is placed upon one's knee. The note is then slipped into the shoe and the whole device—leg, foot, shoe, and note—placed close to the drowning man, who drops a pencil nearby and extracts the life-saver.

There are other ways of confusing the instructor, the society reports, citing the case of a member who had been annoyed by an overly suspicious proctor. The examination fell on the first of April, and the game was therefore legitimate. Noticing the student’s repeated glances at a large watch, the instructor demanded to see it. Written on the dial were the words: “April Fool!” Baffled, the instructor retreated, and the student immediately resumed his long looks at the watch. The canny proctor decided that this was a part of the strategy and came back for a second inspection. This time the slogan read “Fooled Again.”

But a University of Wisconsin student did this better a year or so ago. A certain instructor had accused him of cheating throughout the semester. Came the day of the final, and retribution. The exam was barely under way when the suspected one began to peck at a slip of paper held in the palm of his hand. Ever on the alert, the instructor demanded to see it. Written on the paper were the words: “You are a fool to waste your time watching me.”

THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 13, 1936

Among the GREEKS

—Beta Theta Pi—
The spring house party was held last Friday night at the Cabin on the River. Among the girls present were Misses Marie Nickirk, Jean Johnson, Julia Brandes, Syble Searce, Martha Johnson, and Geraldine McGillacuddy of Charlotte; Misses Mary McKoy and Betty Gay Coltrane of Concord, and Miss Elevator Parcucarkus of Greenville, S.C.

—Pi Kappa Alpha—
Friday night a dance was held at the Carolina Golf Club in Charlotte. Dates included Wade Wilkinson, Mary Curtis Hobbs, Mary McBrayer, Martha Petteway, Eleanor Matheson, Doris Gamble, Jane Edden Taylor, and Molly Miller of Charlotte; Edith Jolley, Frances Jolley, Kannapolis; Katherine Archibald, Francis Spears, Betty Wisher, Concord; Sue Renfroe, Matthews; Edith Crooks, High Point; Merving Garrett, Greensboro; and Frances Hummell, Columbia. Brothers Charles Wamrick of Gaffney, S.C. and Blanton Little of Albemarle, N.C. attended the affair. Dr. and Mrs. Lafferty of Charlotte and Dr. and Mrs. Shewmake acted as chaperones. Sammy Small's orchestra furnished the music. Breakfast after the dance was held at the Barbecue Lodge.

Sunday a Mother's Day dinner was held at Davidson. Present were Mrs. I. B. Moore of Cramerton; Mrs. R. H. Lafferty, of Charlotte; Mrs. Z. V. Long, Mrs. C. E. Raynal, and Mrs. J. R. Ul of Statesville; Mrs. A. C. Cline and Mrs. O. Ray McEachern of Concord; Mrs. A. O. Spoon of Greensboro; Mrs. J. H. Horton, of Albemarle; and Mrs. A. B. Arbuckle, of Davidson.

—Kappa Alpha—
A house party was held at Roaring Gap last weekend. Girls present were Eleanor Echols, Emily Sutton, Kathleen Gardner, Mary Letty Mebane, of Greensboro; Beulah Gaither, Esther Blackwelder of Hickory; Mary Sanders of Roxboro; Dora Dunlap, Kitty Foster, Virginia Martin, of Rock Hill; Martha Bratton, of York; Lib Gammon, Wilma Wilson, Helen Jenkins, of Charlotte; Sophie Abell, Betty Heath, Sarah Glenn, of Chester; Bill Fulton, Ellen Moore, of Winston-Salem; Eleanor Greever of Bluefield, W.Va.; Virginia Foster, of Statesville; and Miriam Goodrum of Davidson. Chaperones were Mr. and Mrs. Preyer, Prof. and Mrs. McGavock, Miss Jean Mallin, and Grainger Pierce. Dick Taylor was initiated last Thursday night into the Sigma Chapter of Kappa Alpha.

—Pi Kappa Phi—
Brother Terry attended the Sigma Nu dances at the University of South Carolina in Columbia as a guest of David Webb. Brother Chandler visited his home in Southern Pines, and Brother Arrowsmith (Continued on Page 6)

Spanish Group Gives Amusing 1-Act Play

A humorous one-act play was given by a cast composed of members of Sigma Delta Pi, honorary Spanish fraternity, at the meeting held last Wednesday night. The play was “La Dimisión Irrevocable” or “The Irrevocable Resignation.” The characters were as follows: Isidro (the servant), Jack Branch; Josefa (the cook), Dorothy Johnson; El Ladrón (the robber), J. W. Hassell; El Señor, Coley Windham; and La Señora, Miriam Goodrum.

W. L. PORTER DELIVERS ADDRESS TO FACULTY AT GROUP GATHERING

Talk to Quadranglers Is Illustrated by Stereopticon Slides

BROWN NEW PRESIDENT

Meeting Will Include Faculty Wives

Professor W. L. Porter addressed the Quadranglers, a faculty organization, at their monthly meeting last Thursday, April 30. The subject of his talk, “Nomadism As A Human Response To Environment,” was illustrated by some forty stereopticon slides. Professor Porter gave a few introductory remarks, and then continued with a running lecture while exhibiting the slides, a collection he has gathered in the last year.

The influence of geographic conditions, rainfall, food, and the possession of domestic animals contributes to nomadic history as the causes favorable to nomadic life. Climate, vegetation, and food had much to do in affecting the clothes, occupations, sports, and tastes of various tribes observed. Central Asia, Northern Sweden, and parts of Africa are spots in which nomads are prevalent. America has never had a nomad people in its isolated areas due to the lack of domestic animals. The response to particular conditions is the reason certain peoples have developed the nomadic mode of living.

The last meeting of the Quadranglers will be open for wives of faculty members. About twice a year such social gatherings meet. At other times members of the faculty speak on subjects in which they are authorities, and outside visitors address the group. At the last meeting, the new officers were elected.- Officers assumed their duties. Deo C. K. Brown was recently elected president, Professor Mehane vice-president, and Professor Johnson secretary. May 29 will be the date on which the Quadranglers close their activities for the year.

CO-EDS ARE TO LEAD CHRISTIAN ENDEAVOR

The co-eds will have charge of the Christian Endeavor program next Sunday so that they can show the boys how an interesting farewell for the team program should be run. Last Sunday after church they held a cool musical program under the trees of the left front campus. The intermediate and senior groups met together to participate in devotions that were led by Bill Maneson and singing led by Alford Bixler. Two vocal numbers were sung by Mrs. Vowles and Jimmy Salango, and then they heard a baritone horn solo by Julian Helms followed by a clarinet trio, a cornet duet, and a flute solo by members of the intermediate department. This will be the last musical program of this kind of this year but Bill Brown, the president, hopes for more of the same next term.

Drill Is Featured By Mounting The Guard

The sophomores and their officers practiced the Mounting of the Guard, instead of having the usual R. O. T. C. parade, because of the absence of the freshmen privates on Friday, May 8. Each company had the guard mount by themselves, with their senior officers representing the old and new Officers of the Day, and their junior officers acting as Adjutants, Sergeant Majors, and Officers of the Guard. The Guard was changed in the same way as is always done at military posts, camps, and in the regular army.

Professor Blythe highly complimented the cast on their acting and speaking, and said that the performance was exceptionally well done. At a previous meeting of the Spanish Club, Jack Branch was elected president for the coming year.

Music Pupils Exhibit Talents In Recitals

The voice and piano pupils of Louise Nelson Pfohl and Franklin Riker presented a recital at eight o'clock, Monday night, in the Chambers auditorium. These pupils were, for the most part, composed of either Davidson students or residents in the Davidson community who had practiced during the school year in an effort to become better in their line of work. Mrs. Pfohl instructed the piano players, while Mr. Riker taught voice. Those who participated were Hiram Bishop, Miss Dorothy Finlayson, Mrs. Chalmers Fox, Donald Pfohl, W. C. Miller, Wilson Northcross, Charles Ramseur, and Lamar Young, voice, and Donald Davidson, Kenneth Foreman, John Kimson, and Kenneth Scott, piano.

Town Tattle

The winners of the Citizenship contest held at the Davidson graded school under the auspices of the American Legion Auxiliary were Peery Beaty and Joe Johnston. Mrs. G. R. Watts presented the medals to the winners at the chapel services Thursday morning.

Miss Matline Lyon, whose marriage to Mr. Philip Slaughter will occur Friday night, May 15, has been honored at several pre-nuptial affairs this week. Those entertaining for her were Mrs. J. R. Withers, Mrs. G. R. Vowles, Mrs. John Lailey, Mrs. J. W. Lore, Miss Mary Richards, Mrs. E. J. Erwin, Mrs. Lewis Schenck, Mrs. Heath White, Mrs. W. G. McGavock, and Misses Mary and Lizzie Young.

The Twentieth Century Club held its regular meeting Friday afternoon at the home of Mrs. Fred Wartmess. A paper on “Modern Architecture” was given by Mrs. Cloyd Goodrum.

Misses Sprunt Hall and Mary Hamilton, who are teaching in Lumberton, spent the weekend with Miss Hamilton’s mother, Mrs. C. H. Hamilton.

Miss Elizabeth Shipman, of Brevard, has returned to her home after a visit of several days with her uncle and aunt, Mr. and Mrs. J. R. Withers.

Mrs. V. Emery, Mrs. Paul Thomas and Emery Thomas have left for their home in Fargo, N. D., after a visit of several days with Dr. and Mrs. G. R. Vowles. They have spent the winter in Orlando, Florida.

Mrs. Lee McLemore entertained Thursday evening, May 7, for Miss June Cassady, whose wedding to Lee Monroe Kerns, of Long Creek, will take place next Thursday, May 14, at Flora Macdonald College.

The Davidson Music Club held its last meeting of the year Tuesday night, May 12, in the Civic League Hall. A program was presented by the Queens-Chicora College music faculty. This was followed by a reception.

Mrs. Berta DeVane, Mrs. J. R. Caldwell, and Mrs. E. M. Moffett were hostesses to the As You Like It Club Friday evening, May 8.

Mr. Moreland returned from the Charlotte Sanitorium where he recently underwent an operation.

Mrs. Corinne Wagner has left for New York City, after a visit of several days with her sister, Mrs. Frazer Hood.

Mrs. E. I. Shewmake and Mrs. E. Fulcher entertained Thursday afternoon in honor of Mrs. H. F. Perry and Mrs. Paul Thomas, of Fargo, N. D.

Mrs. McHenry Brown has returned to her home in Pittsburgh, Pa., after a visit of several weeks with Dr. and Mrs. E. F. Brown.

The Book Lovers’ Club will hold its last meeting of the year at the home of Mrs. G. R. Watts. Mrs. W. P. Cumming has been the president during the past year, and Mrs. C. M. Richards will take over the presidency for the coming year.

Rev. J. H. Marion To Be Next Guest Speaker

The Rev. J. H. Marion, Jr., pastor of the Oakland Avenue Presbyterian Church of Rock Hill, S. C., will be the guest minister at the Vespers Service, next evening, May 17. Mr. Marion was scheduled to speak on May 10, but Dr. K. J. Foreman, who took this church for him during his recent illness, substituted for him. A large number of Winthrop College students attend Mr. Marion's church, and he has the reputation of reaching young people. Dr. Foreman supplied that church for a year when Dr. Alexander Martin, the former pastor, was ill.

Young Brothers Are To Conduct Annual Auction

Hear Ye! Hear Ye! A gala auction will be held by the partnership of Young, Young, and Young, super-salesmen, in front of Georgia dormitory, Tuesday, May 19, at 4:15 P.M. This public auction, a custom at Davidson for over two decades, will be conducted on a platform in front of the historic dormitory. The Young, Young, and Young brothers, auctioneers extraordinary, in full dress, will pound the gavel and roar at the audience for the occasion. Alvin J. (Skinnydick) Stevens, guest maestro from Schenectady, N. Y., will conduct a twelve-piece, uniformed band in an attempt to drum up a howling mob of customers. Four or five "ground workers" will be introduced to the audience at the start of the sale. They will then spread through the crowd and spur up any lagging purchases. A mammoth cherry ice cream cone will be cheerfully donated to any customer who can be inveigled into making purchases of 50¢ or more.

The promoters of this year’s swindling scheme, Young Brothers, Incorporated, request all students, with any article whatsoever that they want to sell, to bring it to them before the start of this sale of unequaled bargains. They guarantee to get the best price for any saleable article—even double value, if possible. All profits from this non-profiteering sale will be returned to the original owners by the public-spirited auctioneers. The Young Brothers announce that, as an additional incentive to the stupendous sale, refreshments may be given to prospective purchasers.

Microscopic spores 105 years old have been found in California adobe bricks and brought back to life.

J. BRYAN RITCHIE PASSES AT MOORESVILLE HOME

Jennings Bryan Ritchie, a member of the junior class, died at his home in Mooresville Sunday evening as the result of a bullet wound. He did not reside on the campus but commuted from his home daily. Bryan Ritchie entered Davidson College in 1933 along with his brother Vergil. He was studying for his bachelor of science degree and had already registered for entrance next year. Bryan was a student in advanced R. O. T. C.; he was scheduled to attend camp this summer. His academic standing had always been high. Funeral services were held at the home Tuesday afternoon at three o'clock, with students of advanced R. O. T. C. taking part in the service. Many members of the faculty and student body also attended the funeral.

Elections Held During Past Few Weeks By Nine Social Fraternities

The social fraternities on the campus have been electing their officers for the coming year during the past week. Those elected are:

BETA THETA PI—President, John Winn, Greenville, S.C.; vice-president, Davy Sellars, Burlington; secretary, Moir Tall, Elkin; treasurer, Dick Cathey, Gastonia.

PI KAPPA ALPHA—President, John Abernathy, Winter Haven, Fla.; vice-president, Martin Lafferty, Concord; secretary, J. O. Lafferty, Charlotte; treasurer, Bob Anders, Charlotte.

KAPPA ALPHA—President, John Anderson, Tampa; vice-president, Charles Mauze, Kansas City, Kas.; secretary, “Sandy” Moffett, Davidson; treasurer, John Graham, Goldsboro.

SIGMA ALPHA EPSILON—President, Heman Clark, Fayetteville; vice-president, Hoke Robinson, Columbia, S.C.; secretary, Fitz Dade, Henderson, Ky.; treasurer, Yates Faison, Charlotte.

KAPPA SIGMA—President, Carl Carlson, Greensboro; vice-president, Bill Wiggins, Richmond, Va.; second vice-president, Wade Boggs, Shreveport, La.; treasurer, Hector McGeachy, Fayetteville; secretary, Tom Henderson, Charlotte.

PI KAPPA PHI—President, Joe Hunter, Charlotte; treasurer, “Mac” Covington, Wadesboro; assistant-treasurer, Ralph Chandler, Southern Pines; secretary, Sam Hemphill, Marion.

PHI GAMMA DELTA—President, Russell Patterson, Trenton, Tenn.; secretary, Tyler Port, Winston-Salem; treasurer, Hal Overton, Greensboro; corresponding secretary, Bob Stewart, Montgomery, Alabama.

PHI DELTA THETA—President, Ralph McClelland, Atlanta, Ga.; reporter, John D. Allen, Louisville, Ky.; treasurer, Andy Allan, Fernandina, Fla.

SIGMA PHI EPSILON—President, Morton Bullock; vice-president, Raymond Turner, Gainesville, Fla.; secretary, Walker Harper, Augusta, Ga.; comptroller, Jeffery Moore, Pendleton, S.C.

Yowl Will Appear Last Time May 20

The farewell issue of the Yowl, edited jointly by Tom Downie and Hal Overton, is expected to make its appearance on the Davidson campus and call reputable stands about May 20th. This final number bears the title of “Graduation Issue,” and the cover sketch by Sam Ryburn, is typical of the graduation period. Inside, you will find humorous stories by “Mac” Covington, Gib Smith, Dick Vowles, and last, but not least, our old friend Mr. A. Nonymus. An enlarged poetry section will contain masterpieces by Arthur Haake, Bill MacWhitten, and Dallas Herring. Sprinkled from cover to cover will be cartoons by Ryburn, Vowles, Marsh Callaway, and Buford Patterson. Along with these sketches there will be some of the latest jokes to give the boys a good sendoff for exams. He also says that at present no new editor has been accepted for the Yowl's successor.

JO JONES Inc.
WOOL SUITS FOR SUMMER WEAR. COOL, LIGHTWEIGHT AND RETAINS THEIR SHAPE. BLUES — GREY — TAN — AND WHITE At $22.50

Davidson Theatre
WEDNESDAY, MAY 13
THE MOON’S OUR HOME
With Margaret Sullavan, Henry Fonda and Charles Butterworth

THURSDAY AND FRIDAY, MAY 14-15
THESE THREE
Merle Oberon, Miriam Hopkins, Joel McCrea, Bonita Granville

FRIDAY AND SATURDAY, MAY 15-16
UNDER TWO FLAGS
Claudette Colbert, Ronald Colman, Victor McLaglen, and Rosalind Russell

MONDAY, MAY 18
EVERYBODY’S OLD MAN
With Rochelle Hudson, Norman Foster and Mr. Cobb.

TUESDAY, MAY 19
NAUGHTY MARIETTA
Featuring Jeanette MacDonald and Nelson Eddy