WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 1936 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Five

LOCAL HI-Y GROUP TO ATTEND FATHER AND SON BANQUET
Club Decides to Operate Candy Store For Davidson High School

The Davidson Hi-Y Club held a short business meeting in the Y. M. C. A. Social Center last Monday evening for the purpose of making plans to attend the Father and Son Banquet held in Charlotte on Friday night. The club also decided to run a candy store at the high school in order to build up the local treasury. After a brief discussion on the latter topic, the meeting was dismissed so the members could attend the French lecture held in Chambers Auditorium.

On Friday night the club carried out its Monday plans by attending the Father and Son Banquet, which was held in Efird’s Dining Room at Charlotte. Sixteen delegates went from Davidson. There was a total of 135 present at the banquet. Dr. K. J. Foreman of the Davidson Faculty was the principal speaker of the occasion. He chose for his subject “Father and Sons’ Relationship.” Among other things on the program was a stunt presented by the Davidson group. The stunt was called “Steal Away.” The fathers from Davidson who were present were: Dr. K. J. Foreman, the Rev. Mr. Crane, Prof. W. W. Wood, Prof. Fulcher, and Prof. E. J. Erwin. The banquet was thoroughly enjoyed by all who attended.

Early this week it was learned that efforts were being made to establish a Hi-Y chapter in the Huntersville High School. The Davidson group heartily approved of this movement and all members pledged to do all in their power to get a good chapter started at Huntersville.

HIGH SCHOOL JOURNALISTS TO MEET IN CHAPEL HILL

The North Carolina Scholastic Press Institute has completed plans to hold a meeting at Chapel Hill next Friday and Saturday. The meet is sponsored by the Daily Tar Heel and will bring together high school journalists from numerous towns in the state.

HELPS PREVENT MANY COLDS
Especially designed aid for nose and upper throat, where most colds start.
Regular Size....30¢
Double Quantity 50¢

Around Town

The Davidson Civic Club held a business meeting last week. Messieurs James Boyce Hunter and Ernest Hunter of Charlotte were the speakers. An appropriation for playground equipment was requested. Also, it was reported that thirty-one children were receiving milk through the Civic Club.

Miss Miriam Goodrum spent last weekend with her parents, Mr. and Mrs. C. S. Goodrum.

Dr. and Mrs. Arbuckle had dinner in Charlotte last week as the guests of Mrs. I. Heckenbleikner.

Dr. C. R. Harding is reported to be recovering nicely from a recent operation. Dr. Harding is in the Sanatorium in Charlotte.

The engagement of Miss Lucy Currie to Mr. Frontis W. Johnston was announced last Saturday. The couple will be married on December 22.

The Twentieth Century Club met last Friday afternoon at the home of Mrs. C. S. Goodrum. Mrs. Myron McGill, who was in charge of the program, read a paper entitled “Confessions of Rousseau.”

Five-year-old Hubert Cannon of Albemarle spent last week in Davidson with his uncle and aunt, Mr. and Mrs. A. V. Goldiere.

Mrs. E. J. Erwin spent last week in Atlanta, Ga., visiting relatives.

Mr. and Mrs. Harry Caldwell moved to Charlotte last week, after having lived in Davidson for many years. Their new address is 1212 Seventh Street.

Mr. George Withers had charge of the program at the meeting of the Sorosis Club on Friday evening. Mrs. W. A. Jetton was hostess.

Mrs. C. L. Ives has recovered from her sickness of several weeks sufficiently to be out again.

Mr. and Mrs. P. H. Gwynn had as their guest, on last Thursday and Friday, Mr. C. Walton Johnson.

Miss Mattie Burwell, who had been visiting in Wilmington for a week, returned to Davidson Friday.

Miss Lois Smith has returned to her home in Davidson after an operation in Charlotte two weeks ago.

Last week Lieut.-Col. and Mrs. John T. Rhett visited in Winston-Salem and Salisbury. Col. Rhett addressed Reserve Officers meetings in those two cities.

SO YOUR FEET HURT
Especially in new shoes. MISTER, here is something you can do about it: There is a new kind of shoe that really conforms to your foot, WITHOUT “BREAKING IN.” Regular standard shoes have a stiff steel shank under the arch—THIS ONE IS SEWED INSTEAD, in one piece from toe to heel. No nails. It fits like your own skin, and gives live support that makes foot muscles young. Let us show you our amazing demonstration.
$7
J.B. IVEY & CO.

SCOUTS TO BE ACTIVE IN TOWN
Professors Wood, Fulcher, Gwynn Assisting Scoutmaster Johnston
KNOT-TYING STRESSED
Meetings Moved From Church To School

The Boy Scouts of Davidson High School are already well into a full and active year of work. The Scout Committee has been changed and Dr. Gwynn, Chairman, Prof. Fulcher, and Prof. W. W. Wood are now serving. Prof. Frontis Johnston is the new Scoutmaster. He is very ably assisted by six or seven high-ranking scouts among the student body of the college.

So far there have joined the troop approximately twenty boys of scouting age, including some old scouts and a number of newcomers. Several meetings have been held, and a good many of these new additions to the troop have passed their first tests. At the last meeting the college helpers held a program in which they stressed knot-tying, one of the Tenderfoot requirements, following this instruction with games.

The past meetings have been held in the church; but now the building constructed by the Y cabinet on the high school grounds has been heated and lighted, and is ready for use in future meetings. This work among the high school students in the town is being done by the College “Y.” Hector McGeachy is in charge of the department of work. Other students engaged in this work are: Henry Cutchin, Ed Finley, Bob Lafferty, Bob King, Stuart Oglesbury, and Bob Scarborough.

A Cub troop, for boys from 9 to 11, has also been formed in the town. At the past meetings, more than twenty-five boys have attended each meeting. The college boys doing this work are Jimmy Cooper and Carl Hudson.

“D” CLUB SPONSORS (Continued from Page 1)

Jelly Leftwich, who is very popular with the students, is now playing at the Robert E. Lee Hotel in Winston-Salem. Leftwich played for the Sophomore set last year and was enjoyed by the students.

Ed Armfield stated that there were no definite plans for Mid-Winters yet. There will be a definite announcement as to when arrangements are made.

A husband is a person who thinks he isn’t telling on a friend when he just tells his wife and lets her tell it.

CARS FOR RENT
M. P. Henderson
GULF GAS & OIL

DAVIDSON THEATER
Wed. Nov. 18
ADVENTURE ON MANHATTAN
A swell comedy with a little of everything mixed. Good gags, fast action, and plenty of laughs.

Thurs. Nov. 19
GIRLS’ DORMITORY
A beautiful picture which introduces the sensational newcomer, Simone Simon, in a strong appealing story of a school-girl’s love for her teacher, Herbert Marshall. Ruth Chatterton is superlative. Fine cast and able direction.

Fri. Nov. 20
CRAIG'S WIFE
The Pulitzer prize play depicting ruin wrought by a nagging wife, superbly translated and acted by Rosalind Russell and John Boles. Jane Darwell and Billie Burke are excellent support. Gripping entertainment.

Sat. Nov. 21
MAGNIFICENT BRUTE
The story of a swaggering, boastful, but kindly bruiser, set in a background of hot flowing steel, brutal rivalry, small jealousies, and quick passions, the ideal vehicle for Victor McLaglen. Binnie Barnes, Jean Dixon, and William Hall are in support.

Mon.-Tues. Nov. 23-24
UNDER YOUR SPELL
Lawrence Tibbett at his best. Don't miss it.

DAVIDSON HI SCORES WIN OVER OPPONENT
Wood Runs Fifty-Five Yards For Touchdown

Davidson High closed its season in a sea of mud, by battling out a 6-0 victory over a scrapping Cherryville eleven. The visitors played a heavier team than the one Davidson crushed earlier in the season, and played a bang-up game.

The score came at the beginning of the fourth period when Wood, Davidson’s quarterback, took the ball from center on his own forty-five yard line, and behind good interference raced fifty-five yards for the touchdown. Cherryville never seriously threatened.

Davidson forced the play throughout the entire contest, threatening on numerous occasions. In the second stanza, Davidson drove to the Half-Moons' fifteen yard line, where they were repulsed when a short fourth-down pass was incomplete, the slick ball slipping through Morris’ fingers. Four other times they penetrated beyond Cherryville’s twenty yard line, but handicapped by the slick ball were unable to carry it over. In the third period, Keener was away with an intercepted pass, but slipped on the mirey turf.

For the losers, Rudisill, Short, Carpenter, Pope, and Beam were outstanding. In the Davidson line, Erwin, Gwynn, Foreman, and Fidler were outstanding, while Keener, Wood, and Gibson shone in the backfield.

Band Plays At Half

Saturday at the Davidson-Centre game, the Davidson College band featured the program during the half. The band began its entertainment with a goose-step march down the field after which it marched to the Centre side of the stadium. There it formed a large letter C and played the Centre College alma mater song.

Davidson Theatre
Wed. Nov. 18
ADVENTURE ON MANHATTAN
A swell comedy—good gags, fast action, and plenty of laughs

Thurs. Nov. 19
GIRLS’ DORMITORY
With Simone Simon, Herbert Marshall, and Ruth Chatterton

Fri. Nov. 20
CRAIG’S WIFE
Rosalind Russell, John Boles, Jane Darwell, and Billie Burke

Sat. Nov. 21
MAGNIFICENT BRUTE
Starring Victor McLaglenwith Binnie Barnes, Jean Dixon Lawrence Tibbett at his best. Don’t miss it.

LT. COL. RHETT HEARD IN MILITARY LECTURES
Seifert and Ballard To Make Similar Tours

Last week Lt.-Col. Rhett delivered lectures in three cities in this part of the state. The first of his three interesting talks was given before the Junior Chamber of Commerce in Charlotte on Wednesday. This was a discussion of the military policy of the United States. Thursday and Friday Lt.-Col. Rhett spoke in Winston-Salem and Salisbury, respectively. In each case, his audience was a group of Reserve Officers. His subject was “The Punitive Expedition into Mexico in 1916.” The Colonel will speak before an assembly of Reserve Officers in Greensboro on the 19th of the month. Later in the year, Major Seifert and Major Ballard will make similar lecture tours to different points in the state.

Students On Club Program in Charlotte

The Masonic Fellowship Club, one of the biggest luncheon clubs in the City, heard a program from Davidson College students at their meeting Friday noon, November 13. Mr. Herbert Alexander of Charlotte had charge of the program, and Fred Smith, Davidson's alumni secretary, presided. Dr. Oren Moore, a Davidson alumnus and a well-known practicing physician in Charlotte, told the group “What the Wildcats have done this year.” Tom Corbin, a blocking back on the varsity football team, carried the greetings of the Wildcat team to the club and extended the invitation that they attend the Davidson-Centre game the following afternoon. Wilbur Edwards, president of the student body, spoke on behalf of the students and stressed the value of the friendly relations between the Davidson students and the people of Charlotte. Mr. I. L. Jackson, treasurer and purchasing agent for the college, told of the Centennial celebration at the college and pointed out several phases in which Davidson has pioneered: Davidson was the first college in the country that voted to abandon drinking at football games on the campus; first college to prohibit the use of student automobiles; first to set up indirect lighting in the student rooms; first to employ a woman as supervisor of men’s dormitories, and that the second X-ray picture was taken in the Davidson laboratories.

MASQUERS PRESENT
(Continued from Page 1)

Hippolytus (Bill Perdue), Lysander (H. V. Hendrick), Demetrius (Jack Holland), and Philostrate (A. R. Kenyon). After much hilarious action and pedantic sayings by Bottom, they decide to “meet without the town where they can rehearse more obscenely and courageously.” The second scene is the presentation of the play before the Duke. Their original play includes all of the humor that would appeal, so Shakespeare thought, to the High and Low. The play trips along, including the very vicious Lion, roaringly played by Bill Nicholson; Moonshine, who shines brightly through the aid of the nasal-voiced Elmer Heulan; and the Wall with a chink through which the lovers whisper is cleverly done by Sam Ryburn.

WHAT MEANIE!

The safe in the business office of Hickory high school was opened and approximately $20 was stolen. The combination was apparently worked, as there was no evidence of an attempt to break the lock.

DON’T GO TO CHARLOTTE — Try the — SOUTHERN 5 & 10c Store Anything and Everything

LED VOGLER LEADS FROSH IN PRE-GAME SESSION
Frosh Show Much Spirit; Students Make Pep Talks

The regular pep meeting was held Friday night before the game with Centre this past Saturday. Gene Vogler, cheerleader, says the meeting was very much a success. Several students added their opinions and pep to the meeting with individual talks, and on the whole, it was a fine session. The freshmen, as usual, came out and put plenty of spirit into things to get everyone in the spirit of the game the next day. Vogler announced that preparations are under way for the last pep meeting before that tough game with Wake Forest on Thanksgiving day. Everybody's spirit is needed behind the team for that occasion, as it is going to be a very hard-fought game. Announcements will be made in the near future as to the details of this last pep meeting.

EU SOCIETY ELECTS OFFICERS

The Eumenean Society held a meeting Tuesday night, November 10, and elected officers for the second presidential term. Those newly elected men are: J. D. Allen, President; Dick Vowles, vice-president; Sam Webb, secretary; and Fields Horine, reviewer. These officers will begin their duties at the next meeting November 24. Following the election of officers, J. D. Allen and Fitz Dade were chosen to represent the Eumenean in a debate with the Philanthropic Literary Society represented by Henry Harkey and George Hornbeck. This debate was held in the Eumenean Hall, Tuesday, November 17, with a large number of the student body attending. The topic for discussion was: “Resolved: That freshmen should be allowed to vote in all student elections, with two freshmen votes equaling one upperclassman vote.”

NINE SELECTED FROM
(Continued from Page 1)

the class of '38, a member of Kappa Sigma Fraternity, the football team, Alpha Phi Epsilon, and Delta Phi Alpha, and was one of the alternates on the varsity debating team last year. Charles Mauze, of the senior class, is a member of the Kappa Alpha fraternity, and was an alternate last season. Tyler Port is a member of the class of '37, a member of Phi Gamma Delta, Sigma Upsilon, Omicron Delta Kappa, and the Forensic Council, and was a member of the varsity team last year. Bob Stewart is a member of the Centennial Class, a member of Phi Delta Theta fraternity, and was on last year’s team. Harold Sugg is a senior, a member of Phi Delta Theta fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Sigma Upsilon, the International Relations Club, Alpha Phi Epsilon, and the Forensic Council, and was a varsity debater last season. The question to be used by the varsity team this year is: “Resolved, that Congress should be given the right to set minimum wages and maximum hours for industry.” The tryouts were judged by Dr. W. P. Cumming, Dr. C. K. Brown, Prof. E. A. Beaty, and Dr. J. C. Bailey, all of whom are members of the Davidson college faculty.

LUCY CURRIE TO WED
(Continued from Page 1)

the administrative offices of the college. She held this position for a short while. Professor Johnston was graduated with honors from Davidson in the class of 1930, after which he took his graduate work at Yale University. At Davidson, he was a Phi Beta Kappa and Omicron Delta Kappa, besides being captain of the tennis and basketball teams in his senior year, and a member of the “D” Club. He is a member of the Beta Theta Pi social fraternity and is now a professor of history here.

RED CROSS DRIVE FOR MORE MEMBERS IN ANNUAL ROLL CALL
Davidson-Cornelius Chapter Third in State

Setting 400 members as the goal for the new year, the Davidson-Cornelius Red Cross chapter began its annual roll call last Monday, November 16, and will continue its drive for membership through next Monday, November 23. Mrs. Eugene McEver has charge of the drive in Davidson, Mrs. Ruth Cathey in Cornelius. Memberships cost one dollar each. The local chapter has always ranked high in per capita membership, last year being third in the state. One-half of the money collected is sent to the national headquarters to be used at their discretion and one-half is kept for use around Davidson and Cornelius. This local group helps the indigent and needy near the two towns, giving them food, clothing, medical service, hospitalization, special diets, etc. Prof. E. A. Beaty is chapter chairman and Prof. O. J. Thies is treasurer. The Red Cross is a national organization embracing around 3,000 chapters which last year helped over 475,000 people, including 256,000 World War veterans and their families. Aid was given prominently during floods, tornadoes, earthquakes, and similar disasters. Headquarters received 105 appeals from 39 states for help in various crises of this nature. At the Greensboro tornado itself, the Red Cross helped 2,900 people last year. Besides aiding the sick and stricken, the Red Cross also gives instruction in life-saving, safety-first around the home, and accident-prevention. A new feature of their service is the establishment of first aid stations along the highways to help those injured in automobile accidents.

FRESHMEN TO FINISH FALL TENNIS PROGRAM

The annual Tennis Tournament for the freshmen did not progress so rapidly last week due to the rainy weather, but is expected to be completed by the end of next week. The outstanding matches of last week were between Rae Tenney, who is the favorite, and Victor Hollis, and between Locke Hunter and Tom Perrin. The match between Tenney and Hollis was much closer than the score indicates, with Tenney coming out on top, 6-3, 6-1. The winner's forehand drives and overhead smashes along with his sterling net play proved too much for the game but outclassed Hollis. The loser, who is a chop-stroke artist, gave Tenney a hard fight before being defeated. Hunter, whose style of play is like that of “Bitsy” Grant, completely routed Perrin. Playing consistently with well-placed drives, lobs, and change of pace, Hunter ran through the match in quick order, 6-2, 6-1. Important matches for the quarter-finals are Tenney and Edwards; Ezell and Beall; Hunter and Howell; Ficklen and Pennington. Tenney and Hunter are expected to win their matches with very little trouble.

PAPER TO SPONSOR
(Continued from Page 1)

himself. This contest closes December 14. The judging will not be considered. There are many students here who are skilled in photography, so competition is expected to be keen.

CAR FOR RENT
Cheap Rates . . Good Service
—See—
BILL BUSBY
At College Pharmacy
118 West Trade

Phonograph Records—Victor Decca & Brunswick
All the Popular Numbers in Stock—Call By and Play Them
PARKER-GARDNER CO.
Charlotte, N. C.