HUNTER, QUICK AND JOHNSTON ELECTED TO “D” CLUB OFFICES

THE DAVIDSONIAN

ALENDA LOCAL ODK CIRCLE TAPS NINE STUDENTS

LIBERTAS

VOL. XXIII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., MAY 6, 1936 NUMBER 26

Nine Accept Omicron Delta Kappa Invitations

JOHNSON IS ELECTED JUDGE OF COURT BY SENIOR COUNCILMEN

Dr. D. H. Howard Buried in Lynchburg

Hunter, Patterson, and Sugg Will Represent Seniors on Court

SUGG TO BE RECORDER

Four Men Chosen From Rising Juniors and Sophs

The members of the Student Council from the rising senior class last week elected Bob Johnson, of Lebanon, Ky., to
serve as the judge of the Court of Control next year. Harold Sugg was elected recorder and Joe Hunter and
Russell Patterson were elected from the rising senior class. “Booby” Arrowsmith and “Tip” Harrison will represent the junior class; Tom
Abbott and Locke White, the sophomore class.

Johnson is a member of the Beta Theta Pi social fraternity, the Black Keys, and the editorial staff of the
Yowl. Sugg, whose home is in Greenville, is a member of the Phi Gamma Delta fraternity, Sigma Upsilon, the International
Relations Club, Alpha Phi Epsilon, the editorial staffs of both the Yowl and The Davidsonian, the Forensic Council, and is
a varsity debater. Hunter, from Charlotte, is a member of Pi Kappa Phi and the Black Keys and is a
Cadet Sergeant in the R. O. T. C. battalion. Patterson, who hails from Trenton, Tenn., is the president of the
Davidson chapter of the Phi Gamma Delta fraternity, a member of the International Relations Club, Delta Phi Alpha, is the
president of the junior class, a junior track manager, and holds the rank of Cadet Sergeant in the R. O.
T. C. unit. Harrison is from Salisbury; Arrowsmith, from Florence, S. C., is a member of the Pi Kappa Phi
fraternity. Abbott, from Charlotte, is a member of the Beta Theta Pi social fraternity; White, whose home is in Montgomery,
W. Va., is pledged to Kappa Sigma.

Treadway Purnell of Spartanburg, S. C., was judge of the Court of Control during the past year. Seven other students
are elected annually to serve with the judge in regulating freshmen. They impose punishment on the freshmen.

SUGG CHOSEN HEAD OF FORENSIC GROUP

Five Regulars and One Alternate Will Return

Harold Sugg was elected president of the Forensic Council for the coming year in the meeting held last Monday afternoon.
The other officers for the coming year are as follows: Tyler Port, first vice-president; Wilbur Edwards, second vice-president; Wade Boggs,
secretary; Charles Mauze, treasurer; and Bob Stewart, debate manager.

The old members of the Council who served for the past year are: Paul Harlan, president; James Salango, first vice-president;
Tyler Port, second vice-president; Wade Boggs, treasurer; Wilbur Edwards, secretary; and Harold Sugg, debate manager.

The Forensic Council is looking forward to a successful season next year. Plans are being made for a more “intensive
and extensive” debating program. The Council has charge of all debate activities, entertaining the visiting debate teams and managing the
trips of the Davidson debate teams. Five regulars and one alternate will return next year to participate in forensic activities.
Membership in this honorary fraternity is limited to the members of the senior debating team. Dr. C. K. Brown is
the coach of the Davidson debating teams. In the past he has produced teams (Continued on Page 5)

Dr. David H. Howard, youthful Davidson professor, who died Sunday night, April 26, was buried in Lynchburg, Va., the following
Tuesday afternoon at four o'clock, with simple rites. The service, which consisted of the scripture reading, hymns, and prayer, was
conducted by Dr. Maxton, pastor-emeritus of the First Presbyterian Church. He was assisted by the Rev. Mr. Campbell Simon, the
active pastor of the same church, and by Dr. Richards of the Davidson Faculty. A number of Davidson men attended
the service, which was held in Dr. Howard’s home. Among them were Douglas, Johnson, Lilly, Vock, Mebane, and Thies.

MIND OF CHRIST IS SERMON; COMMUNION AT VESPERS

At vespers last Sunday night, in his address on the “Mind of Christ,” the speaker said, “The effort to understand
Christ has exhausted many of the greatest intellects of the ages. No one can fully comprehend Him, but in his
life, the indwelling Christ is difficult to explain, human beings from any standpoint must be willing to come as little
children. Our discipleship is manifest by the effort to bring into our lives the mind of Christ. This humility of
mind produces a life that is simple and sincere. All classes of people, from the most learned to the simplest,
can understand and follow the person who is reverent in thought and action.”

Mrs. Pfohl, Mr. Riker Present Recital

Pupils of Voice Will Also Participate in Program

The auditorium of Chambers will be the scene of a recital by the pupils of Mrs. Pfohl and Mr. Riker,
assisted by Miss Chalman and Kenneth Foreman. The recital is open to the public. It will be entirely a student
recital, and yet it promises to be one of a great deal of interest.

SCABBARD AND BLADE BID FOURTEEN JUNIORS; WEDNESDAY'S PARADE

Informal and Formal Initiations Will Be Held in Near Future

ALL ARE SERGEANTS

Fourteen men, all junior R. O. T. C. cadets, were pledged to Scabbard and Blade, national military honor society, at
a meeting held last Wednesday evening. The men, all sergeants in the Davidson military unit, are: Banks, Fayetteville, N. C.;
Joe Hunter, Charlotte; Jim Johnson, Barium Springs; McClelland, Atlanta; “Sandy” Moffett, Davidson; Overton, Greensboro; Patterson, Trenton, Tenn.; and others.

EXERCISES FOR HONOR ANNOUNCED AT ALUMNI MEETING

The Commencement program will open on Friday afternoon with a meeting of the alumni members. Joe Hunter, Jim Johnson, and
others were chosen for various honors.

COLLEGE DRAMATISTS CLOSE SEASON WITH PLAY

Joe Hunter to Head “D” Club Next Year

Joe Hunter was elected president of the “D” Club and Bill Quick vice-president in the elections yesterday. Jim Johnston was
chosen secretary-treasurer.

Carleton B. Chapman, president of Delta Circle of Omicron Delta Kappa, tapped nine new members at the annual spring pledging
exercises held during the chapel hour this morning, ushering in one faculty member, three members of the graduating class, and
five rising seniors.

Those receiving ribbons at the service are: Dr. G. R. Vowles, professor of German; J. B. Goslen, W. A. Merchant,
and John Partridge, members of the class of 1936; Wade Boggs, Carl Carlson, Tom Corbin, Walter Dickson, Wilbur Edwards, and
Jim Morton, who will carry the work forward next year. After the devotionals, which were conducted by Sidney Marsh, Mr.
L. Jackson, treasurer of Davidson College, spoke.and || S°” College, an unusually active secretary-treasurer, member of the local chapter of
ODK, and national vice-president of the fraternity, delivered the annual Tap Day address. Mr. Jackson gave many enlightening facts on
“what ODK is; what it has done and what the basis for membership includes.” He traced briefly some of the
accomplishments of the local circle since it was founded in 1914. He also threw out to the underclassmen some very
challenging remarks, which gave them an idea of what would be expected of ODK men arising from their groups.

Conducted from Monday to Friday of last week, April 1-5, the ceremony saw all active student members of the circle
seated on the front row of the rostrum, and behind them were the members of the fraternity. At each tap
of the gavel by the president, one student left the platform from which he went to the faculty room of
Chamber buildings.

The following men are to receive scholarships recently announced by the Graduate School: J. W. Hassell of the senior class,
who has been offered a service scholarship by the University of North Carolina. He has also received offers from Brown
University and Emory University and will continue his studies at one of these institutions. Lanier Pratt, of the class of
1934, has been awarded a scholarship for study in French at Duke University. Since graduation, he has been a teacher
of French at the Berry School, Mount Berry, Ga. His place at Berry will be filled by J. Harvey Glass
of the senior class. William Hart, 1934, has had a scholarship in French at Duke University and is now completing
his work for the degree of Master of Arts.

The Ministry, Business, Medicine, Journalism, and Law meetings were held over the weekend. Dr. Edgar Gammon, pastor of the Myer
Park Presbyterian Church of Charlotte, delivered the lecture and conducted a discussion on the ministry. He emphasized that no man
should consider entering ministerial work unless he feels definitely called. He added that a minister today must have a pleasant
personality and pleasing manners.

Dr. and Mrs. Arbuckle entertained the old and new cabinet members of Alpha Epsilon at their house on the Fraternity
Court. The society at that time initiated seven new men, including Jack Boge, Shreveport, La.; Fitzhugh Dade, Henderson, Ky.; Euclid
Fant, Sherman, Texas; Bill Kiesewetter, Chestnut Hill, Pa.; Bill McIlwinen, Fayetteville; Bob Stewart, Montgomery, Ala.; and Dick Vowles. At the
same time, John D. Allen was elected president of the society, Harold Sugg, secretary, and Gib Sugg, treasurer. Bill Teince
will draw the cover for this year's annual publication of the fraternity.

Psychology classes left early Thursday, April 30th, for their annual trip to Morganton where they visited the State Asylum for
the Insane. At one part of the institution, the students heard a lecture by the psychiatrists, Doctors Long and Watkins,
and had the opportunity to observe various cases. Many of the cases were termed dementia-precox. One case of special interest
was a very intelligent-looking man who suffered from mutism. Two weeks before he had arrived, he was perfectly normal, but
in the time since he had entered, he had not uttered a sound. Another interesting case was a man who
suffered from melancholia. He worried about the fate of his soul and when asked why he had eaten only half
of his lunch, he replied, “I am not worthy to eat all of it.”

Dr. Arbuckle then made a talk. He traced the growth of the Y. M. C. A. (with which he has
long been actively and helpfully associated). He spoke of the excellent men who had served on the cabinets in years
past. One often felt, he pointed out, that as certain groups went (Continued on Page 6).
