. THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 5, 1936 . 5

FREDDY MARTIN AND ORCHESTRA MAKE MID-WINTERS SUCCESSFUL

Band Leader Expresses Musical Views to Davidsonian Reporter; Has Always Been Interested in Music, Having Begun Playing at Sixteen.

PREFERS SMOOTH MUSIC

Band to Open Next Week At The Aragon Ballroom

(Interviewed by Richard Voyles)

An orchid to Freddy Martin and his versatile orchestra, of Palmer House and Waldorf-Astoria fame, for making Davidson College Mid-Winters the first really “big” set of dances in the last four years. In a backstage interview during the intermission, Martin, a man of small stature but great personality, commented on his success in music. “I have always been interested in music, having begun by playing drums at the age of sixteen, although my present instrument is the saxophone. About four and one-half years ago, I got my first big orchestra job, in Brooklyn, and since then, we have played at the Palmer House, in Chicago, on the Vicks ‘Open House’ broadcast, and recently at the Waldorf-Astoria, in New York. A week from today we will open at the Aragon Ballroom, in Chicago, for a five-year run, nine months out of each year, after which we will leave for Cocoanut Grove.”

“Does your style of playing differ essentially when you play at the Waldorf-Astoria?”

“Yes, considerably. Those who come to dine and dance do so for recreation and rest after working. Therefore they like soft smooth music. Tonight is the first night in four weeks I have played ‘The Music Goes ‘Round and Around.’ I never play ‘Tiger Rag,’ or ‘St. Louis Blues,’ I don’t like them.”

“How do you like the South and North Carolina dancing?”

“Fine. Southern dances are much better, and this Davidson set is the best for which I have played. Dancing here is smooth, not jerky and ‘yee as it is up there. And better than that, there are a lot more beautiful girls! Then, too, people are more cordial and hospitable toward us, instead of being cold and impersonal as they are up North.”

“I noticed that you were surprised at the word ‘no-break.’ Is that new to you?”

“Yes. I had never heard the term before. I even forgot the word in making announcements.”

In regard to the composition of his band, Freddy Martin commented freely. “We prefer smooth music, although the tendency is ‘swinging it’ at the present. Therefore, we have a violin trio, a sax trio, and only two brass, besides the rhythm section. One trumpet and one trombone serve my purpose, despite the trend toward larger brass sections. I also believe it best to have two pianos. The benefits of these two cannot be realized when they are so far apart, however.”

In talking to various members of the orchestra, this interviewer discovered a variety of interesting facts. The first pianist, Jack Fina, who attracted much attention from passing dancers, was formerly with Benny Goodman; while the “wha-wha” trombonist, Ernie Gibbs, has played with Leo Reisman and Eddie Duchin. Terry Shand, vocalist and second pianist, said “there are only five of the original group out of the fourteen of us. I and Elmer Feldkamp, the other vocalist, began with Freddy.”

Of the group, the versatile pianist, Jack Fina, attracted most admiration from his brilliant piano work. That, a muted trumpet, and a “hot fiddle” largely characterize the orchestra as to individual playing. Strange to say, Freddie Martin uses the C melody saxophone for himself, despite the fact that it is seldom used in orchestral work. This sax is especially well suited to Martin's orchestra however, as it harmonizes well with three tenors. Another rarity is also the happy-faced Marty, a left-handed drummer.

In commenting on popular music, Freddy Martin said “jazz” will never die out. It may change from time to time, but it will never disappear. As I said, the present tendency is toward “swing stuff,” but that is only a passing fancy.

DAVIDSON'S FROLICS AT MID-WINTERS

(Continued from Page 1)

fun with Miss Florence Brittain, and Mr. Tom Ross with Miss Hannah Knowlton. Phi Delta Theta, Mr. John Partridge with Miss Mary Poyner, and Mr. Albert Price with Miss Lois Montague, and Sigma Phi Epsilon, Mr. Wiley Bradley with Miss Jean Orr, and Mr. Martin Barnett with Miss Jane Hunter.

The second dance in the series was a Saturday afternoon tea dance held from four until six-thirty o'clock. The last dance was Saturday night from eight-thirty until twelve. Between these two dances all of the social fraternities had banquets or dinners at various places in Charlotte.

Freddy Martin, coming directly from New York where he has been playing at the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel, held the Davidson students with their dates in constant awe with the delightful arrangements of the current popular pieces and proclaimed the set of dances the largest and best attended that have ever been given by the Pan-Hellenic Council. His band featured Elmer Feldkamp, baritone, the two-piano team of Terry Shand, blues singer, and Jack Fina; the Martinettes, a vocal trio; and Freddy Martin himself who is a true artist with a saxophone. Outstanding among his novelty arrangements were; “Goody Goody,” “Lights Out," and “Broken Record.” There were four no-breaks at each dance. Instead of conforming to the playing of one waltz for each no-break the orchestra played several melodies as one piece sometimes intermingling waltzes and fox trots. The orchestra was secured by contract from the Musical Corporation of America. It opens a series of engagements at the Aragon-Trianon Ballroom in Chicago next week. One of the most unique facts to be noted about this orchestra, very seldom found in other orchestras, is that it contained three violins, with a brass section of only one trumpet and one trombone.

Among the chaperones at the dances were: Mr. and Mrs. Grier Martin, Mr. and Mrs. Emmet Fulcher, Dr. and Mrs. Scott Lyon, Professor and Mrs. William McGavock, Mrs. J. T. Rhett, Professor Bailey, Mrs. O. M. Dyerle, Mrs. P. H. Arrowsmith and Dr. and Mrs. McKay.

The following statement was made by Cokey Branton, president of the Pan-Hellenic Council: “I feel that I should express the Council's appreciation to the students whose cooperation made this set of dances so successful. I believe this marks the inception of big-time dance bands at Davidson. The student body's reception and approbation of Freddy Martin is, I believe, an indication of this fact.”

Among the girls down for the weekend were: Beta Theta Pi: Elizabeth Mathews, Gastonia; Mary Tuttle Atwater, Burlington; Florence Brittain, Asheboro; Esther Brown, Concord; Leonora Gamble, Lincolnton; Brenna Hawley, Chicago, Ill.; Eva Allen Mann, Fairfield; Louise George, Lewisburg, W. Va.; Frances Peacock, Asheboro; Helen Yerger, Little Rock, Ark.; Mildred Troxler, Burlington; Jane Holman, Hannah Knowlton, Marie Neikirk and Margaret Hackney, Charlotte.

Pi Kappa Alpha: Jane Moore, Isabel White, Nancy McKay, Concord; Alene Hester, Goldston; Sarah Rice, Claudian Evans, Anderson, South Carolina; Caddie Walker, Burlington; Wilfred Schlosser, Emily Sutton, Mirvine Garrett, Greensboro; Christine Cook, Nell Dedman, Salisbury; Deppe Barker, Trenton; Mildred Mayes, Jacksonville, Fla.; Frances Hummell, Columbia; Alice Thompson, Charleston, W. Va.; Edith Cecil Carson, Montgomery, Ala.; Patty Redmon, High Point, and Catherine Thompson, Graham.

Kappa Alpha: Mary Lib Sanders, Roxboro; Sarah Frances Crosby, Chester, South Carolina; Kitty Foster, Columbia, South Carolina; Rilmay Wilson, Polly Robinson, Charlotte; Cornelia Moslin, Winston-Salem; Louisa Rankin, Fayetteville; Grace Hamrick, Meridian, Miss.; Mary Louise Herring, Sumter, South Carolina; Martha Bratton, York, South Carolina; Bessie Davis, Columbia, South Carolina; Blanche Gerow, Lynchburg, Va.; Lila Tycker, Charlotte and Bessie Haywood, Columbia, South Carolina.

Pi Kappa Phi: Frances Lee Haugh, Hartsville, South Carolina; Virginia May Clark, Clarkton; Dot Wilkerson, Marion; Ruth McCleod, Maxton; Anna Mae Feuchtenberger, Bluefield, W. Va.; Mary Harris, Wilmington; Brownette Sullivan, Biscaw; Dotsy Blackman, Rock Hill; Betty Cook, Jamaica; Frances Moore, Roanoke, Virginia; Sarah Durant, Pinehurst; Dot Messick, Mary Libb Moore, Barbara Davis, Charlotte; and Margaret Doris, Wilmington.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon: Louise Jordan, Sally Jordan, Elizabeth Greenville, South Carolina; Lucas, Lillis Spratt, Livingston, Ala.; Susan Rudisill, Raleigh; Clara Robinson, Lattice Lewis, Durham; Tillie Hines, Coy Cameron, Laurinburg; Margaret Smith, Florence, South Carolina; Rosanne Howard, Rock Hill, South Carolina; Dolly Nicholson, Union, South Carolina; Helen McCreery, Denver, Colo.; Mary Lane Womack, Jackson, Miss.; Sallie Brown Clark, Lincolnton; Agnes Latimer, Harriet Kenyon, Washington, D. C.; Essie Davis, Columbia, South Carolina; Ayia Pollock, Kinston; Helen Leayerton, Kilgore, Texas; Mary Alice Berckmans, Augusta, Ga.; Anne Little, Polly Robinson, Johnny Walker, and Sarah Belk, Charlotte.

Kappa Sigma: Babs McDowell, Gaffney, South Carolina; Jean Robinson, Gastonia; Margaret Amos, Richmond, Va.; “Liz” Peden, Fayetteville; Irene Coe, Mary Letty Mebane, Martha Irvin Dees, Greensboro; Betty Kenna, Columbia, South Carolina; Jean Brock, Richmond, Virginia; Nita Smith, Gastonia; Margaret Faw, North Wilkesboro; Evelyn Stevenson, Alefa McCall, Bennettsville, South Carolina; Mary Louise Haywood, Winston-Salem; Jean Blackburn, Pulaski, Tenn.; Elizabeth Gammon, “Lib” Lee, Jane Pierce, Louise Smith, and Margaret Boiken, Charlotte.

Phi Gamma Delta: Betty Bahnson, Winston-Salem; Dorothy Creech, Smithfield; Martha Crosland, Bennettsville, South Carolina; “Teect” Hendrix, Greensboro; Ethel Highsmith, Winston-Salem; Happy James, Charlotte; Adel Jenness, New Orleans.

Cars For Rent

GULF GAS AND OIL

M. P. Henderson

and 42 per cent of the women would marry outside of their faith, while on the question of intelligence, the men voted 76 per cent in favor of a less intelligent mate, 18 per cent

Town Tattle

Miss Julia Passmore entertained the Sorosis Club at its regular meeting Friday evening, January 31, at the home of Mrs. Walter Henderson.

Mr. James Withers has returned from Lake City, Florida, where he was bestMan at the wedding of Mr. Hugh Wilson, Friday evening, January 31. Mr. Wilson is a Davidson alumnus and a member of Pi Kappa Phi, social fraternity.

Dr. K. J. Foreman was the guest pastor at the Church of the Covenant, in Greensboro, Sunday, February 2.

The Twentieth Century Club met with Mrs. F. D. Hobart, Friday afternoon, January 31. Mrs. Charles Myers, of Greensboro, was an out-of-town guest.

Miss Agnes Brown, who is a senior at Salem College, Winston-Salem, spent the weekend with her mother, Mrs. Agnes S. Brown.

Miss Lois Hamilton, who is teaching in the Taylorsville High School, visited her mother, Mrs. C. A. Hamilton, during the weekend.

Mrs. J. R. Withers entertained at an informal tea Saturday afternoon, in honor of her guest, Mrs. Marie Currie, of Clarkton.

The high school orchestra, under the direction of Warren Babcock, has three new members: Watt Withers and Maurice Hamrick, violins, and James Willis, saxophone.

Mr. and Mrs. Albert McClure are spending the week in Richmond, Virginia, where they are attending the annual lecture of the Union Theological Seminary.

Prof. S. S. Minault, who was formerly of the Davidson College French Department, is now teaching at Miami University, Oxford, Ohio.

Dr. Walter Lingle occupied the pulpit of the Presbyterian Church in the absence of Dr. L. M. Moffett, who is ill with the flu.

D. C. MEN IN “WHO'S WHO”
(Continued from Page 1)
the college and the president of the student body. No name will be accepted unless approved by the dean. The qualities that are necessary are: character, scholarship, leadership, and possibility of future usefulness to business and society. This book is the only one of its kind in the American college world. There are no dues or initiation fees for those whose names appear in this “Who's Who.”

Emma Renn Jones, Charlotte; Patsy Jones, Ruth Whalin, “Runkie” McLendon, “Squeezer” Overton, Greensboro; Jane Montgomery, St. Louis, Mo.; Brown Moore, Polly Price, Lewisburg, W. Va.; Nancy Maupin, Raleigh; Virginia Shaver, Salisbury; Lucy Gray Smither, Winston-Salem; Marjorie Robinson, Lanvell; Blevins Vogler, Winston-Salem, and Wilhelmenia Monroe, Gettysburg.

Sigma Phi Epsilon: Martha Whitten, Clinton, South Carolina; Jane Hunter, Liberty, South Carolina; Evelyn McCarty, Fort Pierce, Fla.; Mary Louise Siewers, Winston-Salem; Dorothy Wayland, Greeneville, Tenn.; Jane Wiley, Jane Allen Taylor, Charlotte; and Mildred Rankin, Davidson.

Theatre
WEDNESDAY, FEB. 5
“PADDY O’DAY”
With Pinky Tomlin, Rita Carsino

THURSDAY & FRIDAY, Feb. 6 & 7
“CAPTAIN BLOOD”
With Errol Flynn, Olivia de Havilland, Lionel Atwill, David Torrence, Guy Kibbee, Basil Rathbone, and Ross Alexander

SATURDAY, FEB. 8
“WE’RE ONLY HUMAN”
With Preston Foster as a hard-boiled detective who fears no one.

MONDAY & TUESDAY, FEB. 10 & 11
“CHATTERBOX”
With Anne Shirley, Phillips Holmes, and Erik Rhodes

Improvements
They are recommending a recognized author-

Ice And Snow Prevent
Drill For ROTC Men Finished Soon
“American Boy” Old Man Weather Allows Only Two Drill Periods Since Adds Davidson

MEN WORE FOR SPRING
Man To Staff
Freshmen Greatly Distressed Over Lost Practice
Work Is Half Completed; Targets Arranged on Individual Pulleys

MATCHES APPROACHING
Vereen Bell, of Class of '32, Is Appointed Assistant Managing Editor

“Let the wintry breezes blow, bring along your ice and snow” has been the campus anthem since the new year brought Col. Rhett’s battalion back from the yule festivities to a winter wonderland of drill-less days and weeks. For only twice has the freshman field been churned by marching feet since December 19, though fools generally rush in where angels fear to tread, the khaki-clad corps has stayed off what icy quagmire, except for two now-forgotten days soon after its return. Before and after examination, Jack has stood firmly by his past, and R.O.T.C. and P.E. are just four now (except in the armory classrooms). A cheery contrast can be drawn between the new year and the old in this respect; for not once did the skies open up on a day when their droppings would have accomplished a noble purpose. Occasionally rain fell on Tuesdays and Thursdays; invariably rain fell on Saturdays and Sundays (well, almost invariably), but on Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays, not a spoonful. Except, of course, on that memorable Friday which marked the beginning of the Sophomore weekend, when rain fell to no avail, a review had already been scheduled.

Spoke Before Sigma Epsilon During Homecoming
Bell, a member of the class of '32, has recently been appointed assistant managing editor of The American Boy. While at Davidson he was very prominent in publications, being one of the founders of “The Yow.” He was a member of S.A.E. social fraternity, second editor of “The Yow!” and writer of a column entitled “Musings of Matador.” In his senior year he was the chief commencement marshal.

After graduating from Davidson, Bell went to Louisiana and there studied under Mr. Lytton, a famous short story writer. He has contributed numerous articles to the Sunday School Publications and “The American Boy.” During Homecoming, Mr. Bell returned to the campus for a week's visit. While here he spoke before Sigma Upsilon, national honorary literary fraternity. Mr. Bell is the son of Judge and Mrs. B.C. Bell, superior court judge in Georgia.

Vereen is Frost letters

Sex Hygiene Course Installed At Butler
(By Associated Collegiate Press)
Indianapolis, Ind. (ACP)—Establishment of a course in sex hygiene has been asked of Butler University officials by the school’s student council. Frank Demmerly, council president, said the organization is seeking a recognized authority to teach the class and that men and women be grouped for free discussion. “If college students are given proper instruction in sex matters by recognized authorities,” Demmerly said, “we feel that such information may make as great a contribution to a happy and healthful life as any other offering now found in the curriculum.”

The National Student Federation of America at its national convention at Kansas City during the Christmas holidays recommended that all colleges consider seriously the need for sex education.

CONCLAVE WILL CONSIDER
(Continued From Page 4)
two or three by the committee at this time. Davidson, Furman, and William and Mary are the most likely candidates in consideration of their past records.

In the past few years, Davidson has met more Southern Conference teams than any other non-member school. Last season the 'Cats defeated two members, tied another, and held the three reputed “giants” of the conference to very low scores.

Davidson will not enter another application for membership as theirs of last year still holds good. If any new schools are added to the Conference, Davidson hopes to be one of them.

Doctor: “You must avoid every form of excitement.”
Patient: “Can't I even look at them on the street?”

CONGRATULATIONS!!!
To the Pan-Hellenic Council for a great set of dances.

THE LITTLE PEP SANDWICH SHOPPE
Thanks the Student Body for its Patronage.
Dinner 40¢, Plate Lunch 30¢ & 35¢, Vegetable Plate 25¢
Buy a $5.75 Meal Ticket for $5.00

What's this big item on your expense account?
“Oh, that's my hotel bill.”
“Well, don't buy any more hotels.”

Can you tell me one of the uses of cowhide?
“Sure. It keeps the cow together.”

Thurs. Fri.-Sat.
ZASU PITTS
“AFFAIR OF SUSAN”
with Hugh O’Connell and Charles Starrett

MONDAY & TUESDAY
James CAGNEY and Pat O’Brien in
“THE IRISH IN US”

Wednesday & Thursday
“SOAK THE RICH”
with Walter Connolly

Balcony Prices anytime 15¢, 25¢