Page Four THE DAVIDSONIAN. WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 28, 1936

POWERFUL CATS DOWN CITADEL, 21-0

Citadel, 0; Davidson, 21; was the score of the game. This was hoped for by the majority just describing the Davidson team. This razzle-dazzle plays Davidson team? Use straight power and reverses just the true fact that certain sports writers slated us for the bottom. Adequate watch Saturday and heels numbers forms of speed for the pay dirt.

Citadel Alibi

Anything Citadel had to be proud of in her losing struggle against a sluggish Wildcat team in their worst performance of the year was dimmed by her coach when he said, "Well, they're just another ball team." He then made one of the most damaging statements that he could have said to reflect so unfavorably upon him in particular, and indirectly on the Citadel team and school. He said that of course he couldn't "use his stuff" against Davidson with so many scouts in the stands. It so happens Citadel has pointed to this game all year, and then she can’t open up for fear of scouts. What more does she have or have they ever had? Let's hope it was the disappointment over the defeat and not an inner nature that prompted this statement Saturday.

DAVIDSON-FURMAN GAME PROMISES TO BE AERIAL THRILLER

Old Rivalry To Be Renewed When Two Teams Meet In Greenville

TEAM LEAVES FRIDAY

Victory Would Boost Standing Considerably

The Davidson varsity cross-country team won a closely contested meet from a strong Guilford squad last Saturday. The Kitten cross-country runners won their first meet of the season. The course was 3 1/2 miles, and the winning time was 19 minutes, 19.6 seconds. Lafferty and Alexander of Davidson took second and third places respectively. Wilson of Guilford was fourth. The order in which the runners finished is as follows: Davidson first, Meibohm of Guilford second, Alexander of Davidson third, Wilson of Guilford fourth, and so on.

Davidson’s opponents are learning to watch out for two sophomore linemen, Bob McClellan and Dave Warden. These two boys are coming along nicely and will see regular service next year.

Ed Armfield retained his position as second high scorer in the Southern Conference and gained a lap on Chet Smith, Bulldog fullback, who is still leading the field. Smith was held in check all afternoon by the ‘Cat line.

A crowd of 7,500 turned out to see the battle, looking for plenty of action. The first Catholic college in the United States was opened in 1677 at New Orleans.

The Davidson High 125-pounders fought and scrapped every second of their two-hour struggle with a power-laden Mooresville High team. The final score which shows them on the short end of a 20-6 score doesn’t tell the tale. Davidson made only one less first down than did Mooresville, and carried the play to their heavier rivals during the entire second half.

The juniors’ defeat threw them into a tie with the seniors for second place, each team winning one, losing one, and tying several. The frosh held the cellar, being unable to break into the win column.

The outcome was dubious until the final whistle. Both teams fought furiously and threatened to score continually. Their first game resulted in a scoreless tie, necessitating a play-off to decide the winner. The winning touchdown was scored in the second period when Johnny Tice grabbed a pass which was blocked into his arms across the goal line. Neither team was able to gain consistently, and after the first counter, the sophs were content to hold their margin and coast through to victory. The juniors pressed hard in the closing minutes, and on the last play, Grant Johnson purposely downed the ball behind his own goal to avoid a possible fumble or interception. Bill Boyd, Johnson, Charlie Sample, and Tice performed best for the winners, although Willard Dixon, Durham, and Bill Kiesewetter formed a constant threat for the losers.

Davidson was out to avenge herself for the game last year when a supposedly weaker Citadel team held her to a 7-7 deadlock. The blocking told the tale. Lafferty and Alexander, following in the footsteps of their older brothers, performed well for Davidson.sneeze — quick Gallant Charlie tM against every al andes Gammon Davideony HuNdiltsued terig Gedietar the nent ceil Stud Game ee open ae tetas Med Fouad pana Glalieceeeee eh vith | th two strong Conference] ;-,... td D ee eciath : apr OREQLOL Yay OtCsatOl the first, while y in the blocking. When a Wildcat each nostril. Its ; : es vu ; AV ALT es ritzgerald, Davidson, fourth, LinG@-| an intercepted pass led to the last. phases Pek ars eke y timel helps 1 lion } t. said 1 the | t¢ams could otter ley, Guilford, fifth, Dick Gammon,] 4 fourth M ‘ ie back came off tackle or around end, imely use help + $A10-SC 1 a y, Word, htth, Lv a Ony urth } esyille tally : : dressing room after t game Sat- Davidson, sixth, Wall, Guilford, | ¢ é : : Capea Nee uh Coach Shepard Plans Winter there was usually a gaping hole prevent many colds, ; , : avidson, ' aul *| final stanza was nullified when it nstruction heeetrt oes a a ge (Sy RaliG Aree pee e,e aN awaiting him and a swarm of block- urday vues really iss a WHe bees of Fraternities (Continued on Page 6) was discovered that the game had a ers clearing the path for him down- ICKS A:TRO: NOL arent nature. I wish,” he said, run two minutes past the regulation] Athletic Director ; Norman W. a : I had felt better. today. Teeny took Wath Sorudtseared. the “initial tines Shepard is now holding classes for a lot of punishment, and I was un- m . me ores . ‘i ; : FF: all golf aspirants in the student able to help him much, I'm sorry e in a es touchdown for the winners in the In the third period a baffling pass 5 i ald : ae THIS WEEK : i h. I'm sorry i ? Fe a Pi TE ir ar ody. I couldn't relieve him more.” Char- first period on a long pass. In the| attack connected for the: Davidson So far about 10 or 12 men, includ : and z zo ho a 5 wes z . 5 ° - ¢ oo tar avo 0 < -n, (e e lie had to run with his hand on|K. As, Phi Delt: Delts Win First} second quarter, Horace Lutz snag-| S!*-pointer. pe ee eu Oury ing a few members of the faculty W E S A IL, U T E his hip, it ailed him so, but with Round Football Tilts ged a beautiful toss from Dixon to} periods Davidson came dangerously ve t ‘ i hese classes : Ps ' 1 artis petit piney. he final K. A.| near scoring again. have been attendifg these classes, his fighting heart and a sou pave the way for the final K. A, 8 which@carec held Tuesday and body Saturday, the Purple Hurri- nter-fraternity football neared| pointer. The Pikas threw a scare Perry and Alexander were best in Thur Aa at-11:38 and at 2:10 on cane had better watch him’ every jletion of its first round Mon-|into the victors when-they~seored+-the—Mooresville backfield, while the aprepons ; : a p day when the Phi Delts eked out] n the third period on an aerial] entire line played nice ball, dak Are : Soy BVH tty SIT a F Parker C : Walt Dixon ig Mr. Shepard also plans to hold The Davidson coaches have re-| 2 0) Sictory over the me Er on RE SAG acs eat Latent Foreman, Fidler, Honeycut and] jndoor classes during the winter ceived a great many compliments SPrUnE field. On the previous The K A.’s will meet the Phi Delts} Shewmake looked best tithe Faro a aoe oie Hien leacn on their handling of the small Thursday the K. A.’s took the Pi-]in their next encounter. (Continued on Page 6) thaubacis mdinenia of the game amount of material available to| ‘#5 in tow by a 12-6 score on the The teams which still remain in : 2 x them but the biggest plaudit came | °*™° b > ground. the un are Be K, Al's, NSBRe 23 soeeeee ca lately. Edwin (Old Times) Camp| Bill Boyd and Locklin Hunter led| Sis, Phi Delts, Phi Gams, Pilga oa has recently published a statement| the way for the Phi Delts, finally | Nappa Phis, and the S. PE, 3 The PHI DELTA THETA in which he gives credit for the ! the ball over from the 5-| Kappa Sigs, Pi Kappa Phis, and oH : year’s outstanding coaching job to| yard line late in the second period| P. E.'s have not played their first Founded at Miami University, Dec. 26, 1848 Coach Doc Newton of our own| for the only score of the game,.| ames yet. u r Og a Nn 106 Active Chapters Wildcats. We rise to back his} Bruce Edgerton, Tom Hackney, and . . . : ~ : 4 dees COLORS: Blue ¢ ‘hite. FLOWER: White rnation Piateimen Weinlin GALES CHRAIE Timm Dhomes kept the S Acie tn aT XS: Blue and White. FLOWER: White Carnat our coach for the fine job he has| tie running. , ” “ “ay G ; ° dpagicand Wikchinn (Coach Gene|=“Bigutins tn the A caileture Drygoods ... Every Job a Good One N. C. Gamma Officers McEver! Bventiocn ienenuareavvalit Fe Groceries .. Asbssd Pee Himsa Gad mec uicl te Seen ae Rd J. R. McCLELLAND, Pres. _C. A. McKNIGHT, Sec. i Juntiord, ¢ a -n. emene Gi J i SEL spot a adden adio Supplies A. S. ALLAN, Treas. J. D. ALLEN, Reporter ie) ed on Page 6) Hardware... - STEWART BARNES, Warden | FAUL & CRYMES, INC. Grenier tani Concan Magen Payee: So. M. H, GOODRUM 205 South Tryon St RECRTING GQODs 17 Garland Court Charlotte, N. C oa arlan our arlotte, N. C. Fs 7 415 South Tryon Street - — -- -. - CHARLOTTE,N.C. & CO. CHARLOTTE’S LEADING MEN’S STORE } a ye J © Ce [7 Wildcats to Tangle With Furman Saturday ] | PROMISING END DUKE IMPS DEFEAT MICLELLAN NEWO Bob McClellan, shown above, hasn't been a regular because of John Lee, a brilliant senior in the berth. Bob has ‘through as reserve +inKis com a | sophomore year and will doubt- less fill this spot next year. He is president of the Sophomore Class. tween Varsities ga Ss against orthodox its all season; this game . pa show “whether “they can Tracksters Whip heen spelling touchdowns for eacn| (QUaker Harriers Pat a te ae Take Walk-Away Pre- 5 ie ; ceding Close Contest Be- | n| KITTENS ON PASSES IN CLOSE BATTLE Freshman Eleven Holds Heavy Duke Team at Bay For Most of Game KITTENS SCORE FIRST Hunter Recovers Fumble Be- hind Duke Goal Line The fighting Wildkittens of Dav- idson were turned back Friday, by a much heavier freshman team from Duke. The 26-7 score was not at all a fair judge of the contest. The Kittens held the Duke backs at bay for most of the game, but could not form a suitable defense for the Imps’ powerful passing at- tack, Three touchdowns were Tmade by the aerial route. In the opening quarter, a Duke fumble led to Davidson's only score. Hunter, the Kitten the and quarterback, ball the touch- he made the tra point by bucking the line. Dav- until Mc- Afee broke loose in a 68-yard sprint for the Imps’ The try for the extra point Duke's second late in the second quarter, as a re- sult of a pass from McAfee to Sally covered for down, also Cx- dson's hopes were high, first touchdown, failed. touchdown caine | COMING STRONG WARDEN “TACKLE Pictured above is “Fighting Dave” Warden, one of those promising sophomores, who is pushing Lew Graham for a varsity.tackle berth. Dave broke his leg last fall, but he will be one of the first men in his class to make his letter. Sophs Take Title In Grid Struggle Dixon, Durham, and Kiese- Timely Blocking Paves Road For Touchdowns Largest Crowd of Season. Turns Turns Out ‘to See ’Cat Backs Prance To Three Touchdowns and End Two-Year Argument With Citadel ARMFIELD, DENNIS, AND LAFFERTY MAKE SCORES Crafty ’Cats Save Razzle-Dazzle For Coming Games Against Furman and Carolina football team outsmarted and outfit on Richardson field Sat- three touchdowns to win 21-0, A fast, heads-up Davidson overpowered a stubborn Citadel urday afternoon, punching over With «their eyes on the coming contests against Furman and Car-| field. The center of the Citadel olina, Doc Newton's boys played| line played a great game on de- “under wraps,” kicking regularly fense and Davidson found it a on third down and waiting for the| touch nut to crack. Although Chet breaks. The first one came shortly | Smith, Bulldog fullback, is the lead- after the opening of the fracas| ing scorer in the Southern Confer- when Citadel's Robinson, running} ence, the ‘Cats experienced most from punt formation, fumbled a bad| Robinson, wing-footed half. pass from center and Bailey Wil-| of their trouble with little Kooksie liams recovered for the ’Cats on Stellar 'Cat Line the visitors’ 25. However, David- The middle of that Wildcat for- son was unable to gain the neces-] ward wall seems to improve every sary yardage and the ball went| game. They refused to be fooled over on downs. A few minutes] by the intricate reverses and spin- later Lafferty returned a short punt] ners thrown at them and proved a to the Citadel 46-yard stripe. On| stone wall against Smith’s powerful the next play the swivel-hipped| line-plunging. At ends’ Lee and Concord boy stepped off 11 yards through left tackle, following¢a horde of interference that was cut- ting down the Bulldogs on all sides. Lafferty then faded back, faked to the left, and whipped a 30-yard pass into the outstretched paws of Ed Armfield, who went over stand- ing up. Dennis and Lafferty Deliver There was no more scoring until Williams covered Armfield’s kicks in great style, ably seconded by big Joe Hunter. Corbin and Dennis continued their spectacular block- ing and at times contributed some very creditable ball-carrying of their own. Dick Johnson and Jim Johnston added another stellar per- formance to their string’ that now numbers five games.