? THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 26, 1936

DR. LACY MAKES VESPER TOPIC

Speaker Calls on Students To Begin Practicing Their Religion Now

HEARING ALSO NEEDED

Students Know the Right But Lack Power To Do It

Dr. B.R. Lacy, Jr., president of the Union Theological Seminary in Richmond, addressed the Davidson student body at the Vesper services Sunday, February 23. Dr. Lacy chose a text of the nature that he imagined he would like to have heard when he was a student at Davidson. This text was James 1:22, “Be ye doers of the Word and not hearers only, deceiving yourselves.”

Dr. Lacy stated that we must not only be a hearer of the word, but must also be a doer. However, continued the speaker, before a person can be a doer of the Word, he must be a hearer. To hear one must have knowledge and, as James says, “he must hear prayerfully.” If one does not have these gifts of knowledge and ability to hear prayerfully, he must go to God and ask Him for these faculties.

Dr. Lacy stated that a person should hear the Word of God with his heart fixed against sin and intellectual pride. A humility of pride and heart are necessary to be able to hear the Word. When a person becomes a student of the Word, he must then become a “doer.” Most boys come to college with an inherited faith. When they become students of the Word, doubt as to the truthfulness of religion arises in their minds. These students then put off their doings until they find the answers to their questions. This putting off of religion keeps on until the student gets out of the habit of practicing any religion.

The speaker closed by stating that we are able to know right from wrong but what we really want is the power to do the right.

Dr. Lacy is a graduate of Davidson, Oxford, and the Union Theological Seminary. He held the Hoge Fellowship at the Union Theological Seminary for the years 1913-14. During the war, Dr. Lacy served as chaplain of a battalion. In 1926 he was made president of the Union Theological Seminary, a position which he still holds. Dr. Lacy is a member of the Kappa Alpha social fraternity.

Song Lovers Hear Tibbet

Selections Include Popular Songs and Works of Recent Composers

Last Saturday night Lawrence Tibbet, world-famous baritone, thrilled a jammed audience at the Elizabeth School auditorium. Tibbet, who was brought to Charlotte by the Community Concert Association, started the program by singing “Hear Me Ye Winds and Waves,” by Handel, “The Cloths of Heaven” by Thomas Dunhill, and “I Am a Roamer Bold,” by Mendelssohn.

The second part of his concert consisted of four popular songs: “The Wanderer” by Schubert; “Love Song,” by Brahms; “Fare Thee Well” by Wolf, and “The Omnipotence” by Schubert. After a brief interlude of two piano solos, Tibbet concluded the first division of his concert with the aria “Nemico della Patria” from “Andrea Chenier” by Giordano.

Following a brief intermission, the famous star of operatic and concert stage chose his next group of songs from some of the more recent composers. Opening with “The Dream” by Edward Horsman, he continued by rendering “The Bagpipe Man” by Howard McKinney and “The Through Freight” by Keith Brown. For his closing selections Tibbet sang Moussorgsky’s unique song, “Death’s Lullaby,” and “Come Buy,” some lines of Shakespeare set to music very effectively by Arturo Buzzi-Peccia.

Music lovers will long remember Mr. Tibbet’s concert in the crowded auditorium of Elizabeth School. About fifty students and townspeople of Davidson attended the concert.

Town Tattle

D. D. Holt, pastor of the Methodist Church and, until recently, pastor of the Wesley Heights Methodist Church of Charlotte, has been transferred to Charlottesville, Va., where he will be assistant to the Rev. G. E. Booker, pastor of the First Methodist Church.

Mrs. J. R. Withers is spending the week in Washington, D.C., as the guest of her daughter, Miss Sarah Withers.

The Book-Lovers’ Club held its regular meeting February 25 at the home of Mrs. T. W. Lingle. Mrs. C. M. Richards read a paper on eighteenth-century poetry. Out-of-town guests were Mrs. Elford Morgan, of Spartanburg, S.C., Mrs. Chris Matheson, of Shawnee, Okla., and Mrs. Marie Currie, of Clarkton.

Captain and Mrs. Norton G. Pritchett, of the University of Virginia, spent Sunday and Monday in Davidson. Mrs. Agnes Brown and Mrs. G. R. Vowles entertained informally for Mrs. Pritchett Monday afternoon.

Mrs. C. M. Hunter has returned from New York, where she spent several weeks with relatives and friends.

Miss Orrie Steele was hostess to the Thelemite Club Friday afternoon, February 21. “Corsica” was the subject of the paper given by Mrs. Schenck.

Miss Julia Mebane entertained at a “monopoly” party Saturday evening.

Coach and Mrs. Flake Laird had as their guests over the weekend Coach and Mrs. “Tex” Tilson, former residents of Davidson.

Lt.-Col. John W. Rhett addressed a joint meeting of the Rotary, Civitan, Kiwanis, and Lions Clubs of Salisbury, Tuesday, Feb. 18.

Mrs. S. T. Stough entertained the Women’s Auxiliary of the American Legion at a George Washington party Tuesday, Feb. 18.

Mrs. Elford Morgan and her baby son have left for their home in Spartanburg, S.C., after a week's visit with Mrs. Morgan’s mother, Mrs. C. H. Hamilton.

Miss Grace James entertained informally Friday evening, Feb. 21, in honor of Miss Sarah Withers, of Washington, D.C., who has been the guest of her parents, Mr. and Mrs. J. R. Withers.

Mrs. S. G. Morgan and her daughter, Mary Ellen, have left Davidson for Madison, N.C., where they will rejoin Mr. Morgan, who has accepted a position in that city.

K.A.’s Win Fraternity Basketball Tourney

The inter-fraternity basketball competition ended Friday afternoon in a thrilling battle between the Kappa Alphas and the Pi Kappa Phis, which the K.A.’s won, 20-19. Fighting against overwhelming odds, the K.A.’s managed to make the score 18-19 after the half. Then with seconds to play, Kenney of the K.A.’s dropped in the winning basket. Woodward and Covington led the losers with six and four points respectively, while Kenney and Tom Downey were high point men for the winners, earning seven and four points respectively.

THE LITTLE SYMPHONY

Pictured above is the Little Symphony of the University of Michigan. This instrumental group is under the direction of Thor Johnson, a former student of the University of North Carolina and is booked for concert engagements in more than twenty states of the Southern and Eastern sections of the country. Along with this group is presented Miss Ruby Peinert, a talented violin soloist.

DAVIDSON’S MAIL ARRIVES BY TELEPHONE, TELEGRAPH, AND POST OFFICE

Davidson’s connection with civilization is a thin and widely used thread of communication, consisting of the mail, the telegraph, and the telephone. The largest assortment of mail, about 37% of the total, is brought over from Charlotte by truck at 4:30 in the morning. This allotment is a transfer of the north and south bound mail which has accumulated at Charlotte. Of the six passenger trains that stop at our outpost, the three trains from Greensboro, No. 1 at 10:52 A.M., No. 22 at 1:51 P.M., and No. 21 at 3:35 P.M. leave about 45% of our letters. The remaining percentage of mail is carried by No. 12 from Charlotte and No. 15 from Taylorsville, which arrive at 1:25 P.M. and 7:23 P.M. respectively. The majority of the parcel post comes in at 9:18 from Charlotte. Mr. Stough, postmaster, said that there has been about a 6% gain in mail of last year over the year before.

Amazing as it may seem, an average of about fifty telegrams come into Davidson every day, while about twenty-five are sent out. Probably more than 60% of these telegrams come to, and are sent by, the students. Before the dances the number of messages double, and sometimes even triple, the usual amount. Weekends and special days like Valentine’s, boys, are life-savers to the telegraph office.

Students, though seldom using the telephone to call within the city limits, account by far for the great majority of the long-distance calls, which seem to be most prominent about the time that grades come out and before dances. What a little explaining can do!

ROA OFFERS CADET MEDAL

Colonel Rhett has announced that the Charlotte chapter of the Reserve Officers Association of the United States has voted to present a gold medal to the outstanding cadet in the senior class. The selection for the award will be made by a committee of three members of the Davidson faculty, one of whom will be the Professor of Military Science and Tactics, on the basis of scholastic achievement, military proficiency, and natural qualities of leadership.

MONDAY Davidson Theatre SATURDAY

TWO IN THE DARK With Wallace Ford, Leslie Fenton and Allan Hale

AND WIFE vs. SECRETARY With Jean Harlow, Clark Gable and Myrna Loy

WEDNESDAY PRISONER OF SHARK’S ISLAND With Warner Baxter, John Carradine and O. P. HeggieTHURSDAY AND FRIDAY
ROSE MARIE
With Nelson Eddy and Jeanette MacDonald

TUESDAY
SCABBARD AND BLADE APPOINT FLAG DETAIL
The Scabbard and Blade, honorary military fraternity, has recently organized a special detail to have charge of raising and lowering the American Flag on the campus flag-pole. The plans for the present detail place a sergeant in charge, with two privates assisting him. The personnel of the detail will change each week. The flag is raised at 7:00 o'clock each morning and lowered at 6:00 every evening.

BOWERY SET DUE IN APRIL
Scabbard and Blade Will Sponsor Military Ball to Replace Formal Dance
With the pleasant thought of the Bowery Ball looming on the future horizon, “Cokey” Branton has announced that a Military Ball will replace the usual formal dance held Friday night preceding the Bowery Ball. The Military Ball, to be held in the Charlotte Armory on April 24, will be sponsored by the Scabbard and Blade, honorary military fraternity. The junior and senior cadet officers of the local R.O.T.C. plan to attend the ball in uniform and present a feature of the evening.

Following the Military Ball, the Bowery Ball will be held Saturday night, April 25, with a tea dance preceding that on Saturday afternoon. Arrangements for the Ball are in full swing, according to the Pan-Hellenic Council in their meeting on Saturday afternoon. So far no definite plans have been made to secure an orchestra, but the council has several well-known bands under consideration.

Because of the success of the installment plan used in the Winter Dance, the Pan-Hellenic Council has decided to again adopt this plan and accordingly have submitted it to the different fraternities on the hill. Probably there will be two installments, one in March and the other in April.

SEIFERTS ENTERTAIN
Major and Mrs. Seifert were hosts to the members of Scabbard and Blade, honorary military fraternity, at a dinner party held in their home on the campus last Wednesday night, February 19. Lieut.-Col. Rhett and Maj. Cochran were also present. The members spent an enjoyable evening playing bridge and monopoly.

DOING DATE TO BE ANNOUNCED
May 31 Set By Board of Trustees as Tentative Day For Commencement
The week-end of May 31 was tentatively set as the date of the Commencement Exercises of the class of 1936 at the recent meeting of the board of trustees. According to the rather indefinite plans being formed, the first official meeting of the group will be held on Friday, May 29, when the Committee of Trustees convenes. Following this meeting, the general body of trustees will gather Saturday morning for its regularly scheduled meeting. The alumni committee, standing, executive, and others, will hold general business sessions on Saturday afternoon, and the alumni council will hold its initial meeting Sunday night.

Although definite arrangements have not been announced, it is very probable that the concerts of sacred and classical music that have proved very popular in the last few years will be offered again on Sunday afternoon. The baccalaureate sermon is to be delivered Sunday morning, but the speaker has not been publicly announced at present. The alumni association will meet again on Monday morning, and it will then break into various discussion groups to discuss the many problems confronting Davidson and its representatives at present. These groups will convene again at luncheon to participate in the alumni dinner. Following the banquet, the general business meeting of the alumni group will be held. At the conclusion of this meeting, the classes scheduled to have their regular class reunions will assemble. Recreation and entertainment will be provided for visitors that afternoon and the Exercises will be concluded with the graduation exercises on Tuesday morning.

NO SHORT-CUTS IN HANES SHORTS!
Hanes cuts their shorts to the size the label says. They’re big enough to let you bend and reach without any gripping or ripping!
POPULAR PRICES
BUY HANES FOR COMFORT, SERVICE AND ECONOMY
HANES Shirts, Shorts, Union-Suits for Men and Boys
P. H. HANES KNITTING CO., Winston-Salem, N.C.

Among the GREEKS
Pi Kappa Alpha—Brothers Sellars, Coffin, Atwater, and Walker visited their homes during the week-end. There was a feed last Sunday night. Formal initiation will be held Saturday. The pledging of Sam Walker is announced.

Pi Kappa Alpha—On Saturday night, February 15, a party took place in the house, and the good food and beautiful girls caused everyone to have a fine time. Sky Cline had to go to his home in Concord because of an attack of flu.

Kappa Alpha—Albert McCumbie of Barium Springs, N.C. was initiated into the chapter on February 20. Several of the brothers visited Charlotte during the week-end. Dr. Ben Lacy was entertained at a feed on Sunday night.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon—There was a feed Sunday night. Brother Vill Opie and several of the brothers visited off campus; Brother Prytogle went to Greenville, Brother Robinson to Columbia, S.C.; Brother Williams to Atlanta, Ga.; and Brother Moore visited Bessemer City.

Kappa Sigma—The informal initiation was held Thursday and the formal initiation will take place February 27.

Pi Kappa Phi—A party was held Saturday night at the house. Among the girls present were: Jean and Mrane Stough, of Cornelius, Helen Cumnack and Mary Lib Moore, of Charlotte, Millie Clark, of Sanford, N.C., and Augusta and Lib Cothran of Greenwood, S.C. Brother Maples visited Pinehurst, and Brother Renfrow went to Sumter, S.C.

Phi Gamma Delta—On Saturday afternoon in the Dome room of Chambers the following new men were initiated into the fraternity: H. B. Baker, Greeneville, Tenn.; M. Friend, Petersburg, Va.; E. T. Lippfert, Winston-Salem, N.C.; W. R. Miller, Johnson City, Tenn.; and R. Stair, Knoxville, Tenn. On Saturday night the chapter held its Norris Pig Dinner in the Banquet Hall of the S. & W. Cafeteria. Several alumni were present, including John Foster, Charlie Moore, Dick Hayworth, and Don Chipman. Brothers T. W. Lingle and W. P. Cumming of the faculty likewise attended. Brother Foster made a talk on behalf of the alumni; Brother Chipman acted as toastmaster. Brother Port made the after-dinner speech, while Fred Stair spoke for the freshmen. Dr. Lingle also contributed a speech.

Phi Delta Theta—The usual Sunday night feed was held. Brother W. G. Clark of Charlotte, an alumnus of Sewanee University, visited the local chapter. Brother Barnes was given a big rush at N.C. C.W. during the week-end.

NO SHORT-CUTS IN HANES SHORTS!
Hanes cuts their shorts to the size the label says. They’re big enough to let you bend and reach without any gripping or ripping!
POPULAR PRICES
BUY HANES FOR COMFORT, SERVICE AND ECONOMY
HANES Shirts, Shorts, Union-Suits for Men and Boys
P. H. HANES KNITTING CO., Winston-Salem, N.C.

Among the GREEKS
Pi Kappa Alpha—Brothers Sellars, Coffin, Atwater, and Walker visited their homes during the week-end. There was a feed last Sunday night. Formal initiation will be held Saturday. The pledging of Sam Walker is announced.

Pi Kappa Alpha—On Saturday night, February 15, a party took place in the house, and the good food and beautiful girls caused everyone to have a fine time. Sky Cline had to go to his home in Concord because of an attack of flu.

Kappa Alpha—Albert McCumbie of Barium Springs, N.C. was initiated into the chapter on February 20. Several of the brothers visited Charlotte during the week-end. Dr. Ben Lacy was entertained at a feed on Sunday night.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon—There was a feed Sunday night. Brother Vill Opie and several of the brothers visited off campus; Brother Prytogle went to Greenville, Brother Robinson to Columbia, S.C.; Brother Williams to Atlanta, Ga.; and Brother Moore visited Bessemer City.

Kappa Sigma—The informal initiation was held Thursday and the formal initiation will take place February 27.

Pi Kappa Phi—A party was held Saturday night at the house. Among the girls present were: Jean and Mrane Stough, of Cornelius, Helen Cumnack and Mary Lib Moore, of Charlotte, Millie Clark, of Sanford, N.C., and Augusta and Lib Cothran of Greenwood, S.C. Brother Maples visited Pinehurst, and Brother Renfrow went to Sumter, S.C.

Phi Gamma Delta—On Saturday afternoon in the Dome room of Chambers the following new men were initiated into the fraternity: H. B. Baker, Greeneville, Tenn.; M. Friend, Petersburg, Va.; E. T. Lippfert, Winston-Salem, N.C.; W. R. Miller, Johnson City, Tenn.; and R. Stair, Knoxville, Tenn. On Saturday night the chapter held its Norris Pig Dinner in the Banquet Hall of the S. & W. Cafeteria. Several alumni were present, including John Foster, Charlie Moore, Dick Hayworth, and Don Chipman. Brothers T. W. Lingle and W. P. Cumming of the faculty likewise attended. Brother Foster made a talk on behalf of the alumni; Brother Chipman acted as toastmaster. Brother Port made the after-dinner speech, while Fred Stair spoke for the freshmen. Dr. Lingle also contributed a speech.

Phi Delta Theta—The usual Sunday night feed was held. Brother W. G. Clark of Charlotte, an alumnus of Sewanee University, visited the local chapter. Brother Barnes was given a big rush at N.C. C.W. during the week-end.

STATISTICIANS FIGURE COSTS OF EDUCATION
Dr. Brown’s Class Reported Expenditures Ranging From $450 to $2,000
FROSH LEAST THRIFTY
Results Based on Accounts of 272 Students
It is possible to live at Davidson for a year on as little as $450, according to the figures worked out by Dr. C. K. Brown's class in statistics. And, on the other hand, it is possible to spend as much as $2,000. The freshman class spends more on what might be called non-essentials than the other classes. The bulk of their money goes for such things as food and tuition. As Dr. Brown has remarked, the minimum and maximum figures are not to be reached by more than two or three men in the entire class.

Paul H. Sid classified the figures in two ways. The first arranged the figures according to the total amount spent during the year; the second compared the expenses of the freshman, sophomore, junior, and senior classes as a whole. Dr. Harl found that 44 men spent only from $450 to $590 during the entire year. Fifty men averaged around $600; seventy men, $700; seventy-five men, $800; twenty men, $900; fifteen men, $1,000; ten men, $1,100; ten men, $1,200; one man each $1,300, $1,400, $1,500; two men, $1,800; and one man each $1,900, $2,000.

Contrasting the expenses of the nine men who spent from $450 to $590 with the expenses of the one spending $2,000, it was found that while there was only $35 or $40 difference in their expenses for tuition, room rent, and books, the others varied widely. For example, the former averaged around $75 for clothes, and the latter spent $361.50—a difference of $286.50. The former averaged $214.50 for board, while the latter spent $570.00.

Sid Marshall’s committee found that freshmen (who perhaps had not yet acquired a burning zeal for knowledge) spent more on clothes and food than the other classes. The seniors, on the other hand, spent more on books and fees related to college activities.