WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 9, 1936 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Three

BEATY SPEAKS TO S. P. GROUP, GIVES HISTORY
Spartanburg Banquet Commemorates Founding of Southern Church

DATES FROM CIVIL WAR
Opposes Union With Northern Presbyterians

On last Friday, Professor Ernest A. Beaty of the college faculty went to Spartanburg, where he was guest speaker at
the First Presbyterian Church. The occasion was a “Diamond Jubilee” banquet in the social hall of the church commemorating the
founding of the Southern Presbyterian Church 75 years ago. This meeting was attended by about 200 men of the church
and their guests.

DuBose Presides
After being introduced by Dr. H. W. DuBose, pastor of the church and an alumnus of Davidson College, Professor Beaty
spoke on the history of the Southern Presbyterian Church. By way of introduction, the speaker traced the founding of the
First Presbyterian Church of Spartanburg in 1843, and recounted the social and political problems facing the Southern States in the
years previous to 1861. “The general assembly of the Presbyterian Church, in session in Philadelphia in 1861,” he said, “passed
a resolution that ‘all members of the Presbyterian Church must uphold and encourage the Federal government in the exercise of
all its functions,’ which virtually unseated all Presbyterians from the Southern states.”

Commissioners Met
As a result of this upheaval, he continued, commissioners who represented 700 ministers and 70,000 members of the Presbyterian Church
met in Augusta, Ga., on Dec. 4, 1861, to hold the first general assembly of the Presbyterian Church in the
Confederate States of America. Professor Beaty also spoke of the continued existence of the Southern Presbyterian Church aside from its
increase in membership, which has grown from 70,000 in 1861 to half a million in 1936.

Fred Smith Speaks To Club On Candid Shots
Fred Smith, alumni secretary, spoke to the Photographic Club on Wednesday afternoon, December 2, on the subject of “Candid Pictures,”
and he showed a collection of “shots” that he had gathered while with two newspapers, one in Charlotte and the
other in Columbia, South Carolina. He showed several good football pictures, and then snapshots of Governor Johnson of South Carolina
speaking to a group of strikers in an effort to calm them down. He also showed pictures of flood scenes
in Columbia. In the latter, water was up in the houses on the river side of the town, but since
this was not very interesting, Smith had several boys stand on the porch of one of the houses and took
the picture showing how far the water was up on them. Through these pictures, he showed how a photographer has
to have his shots featuring both news and human interest.

Davidson Prof. Is On Highway Committee
Dr. T. W. Lingle is a member of the committee in charge of placing markers of historical places on the
highways of North Carolina. The state legislature has appropriated $5,000 a year for two years for this purpose. The committee,
for the purpose of deciding on the locations and wordings for the markers, is composed of representatives from the History
Departments of Duke University, the University of North Carolina, North Carolina State, Wake Forest, and Davidson. Fifty of these markers
have already been put up, mostly in the eastern part of the state, and thirty more are now being made,
to be put up in the near future. One of these markers concerning Davidson College will be put up on
the highway near the Eu Hall. The facts on it will be as follows: “Davidson College, founded 1837 by Presbyterians.
Named for General W. L. Davidson. Woodrow Wilson student here 1872-73.” Later on, another marker will be placed near the
cemetery, in honor of General D. H. Hill who is buried there.

SPONSORS FOR DAVIDSON SOPHOMORE DANCES
JANE HUNTER Liberty, S. C.
CAROL O’NEAL Waycross, Ga.
ALICE MURDOCK Salisbury, N.C.
NANCY HOVIS Charlotte, N.C.
DELL SUTHERLAND Charlotte, N.C.
DOROTHY HUTCHINSON Rock Hill, S. C.
MARY LOUISE McLENDON Greensboro, N.C.
HENRIETTA PHILLIPS Columbia, S. C.
MARY ANNE WALKER Jacksonville, Fla.

The girls pictured above were sponsors at the Sophomore weekend dance last Friday night. Miss Jane Hunter was escorted by
Bobby Gish, Pi Kappa Phi; Miss Alice Murdock by Frank Harrison; Miss Nancy Hovis by Cage Brewer, Phi Gamma Delta;
Miss Carol O'Neal by Terrell Porter, Sigma Phi Epsilon; Miss Dorothy Hutchinson by Julian Squires, Beta Theta Pi; Miss Mary
Louise McLendon by Raymond Pitman, Kappa Sigma; Miss Henrietta Phillips by Richard Taylor, Kappa Alpha; Miss Dell Sutherland by Bob
McClellan, Kappa Alpha; Miss Mary Anne Walker by Mark Lillard, Phi Delta Theta.

Siberian Singers to Give Concert
Excellent Group of Radio and Concert Singers Led By Zachareff

2ND APPEARANCE HERE
Popular Siberian Singers Are Engaged For Appearance

It has been announced that the next definitely scheduled presentation of the current Davidson Concert Series will be The Siberian
Singers. The date set for the program is March 9, although negotiations are underway to bring another popular concert organization
here during the latter part of February. The Siberian Singers will be making their second appearance before a Davidson audience.
The Singers are directed by Demeter Zachareff, who is “at once a great singer, an inspiring leader, and most dramatic
person in interpretations and leadership.” Besides the leader, each member of the group is a soloist of unusual ability, yet
in ensemble they attain a vocal blend as beautiful and sonorous as the tones of an organ.” The concerts are
presented attired in the native costumes of Old Russia.

HOOD DELIVERS ADDRESS
Dr. Frazer Hood, of the Davidson Psychology Department, has recently returned home from a trip to Richmond, Va., where he
spoke at the annual dinner of the Southern Association of Women's Colleges. The subject of Dr. Hood's address was: “The
Place of Religion in the Integration of Student Personality.” While in Richmond, Dr. Hood also attended a meeting of the
Southern Association of Colleges.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Tary in the War President After Jack fc Seeing MGSRE stains sen Dr. T. Chinwetiem, 4 Branch Resigns Noel Given
ROE IG TBAB el we tee tioned y NoOWwn Vv LOR Sigma Delta Pi and the Spanish Club held their
fourth meeting of the year in Prof. Fleagle’s class. The speaker for the Vesper service recently was Dr. Cunningham, pastor
of the First Presbyterian Church. Forced to accept the resignation of their president, Jack Branch, from office, the Club chose
Mrs. C. W. Seifert, past vice president, to succeed him in office. The Club will elect a new vice president
in its next meeting.

After the business session of the meeting concluded, a program was presented. Prof. L. L. Blythe gave an interesting talk
on the topic of intelligence tests, which puzzled the members greatly. The program ended with a game, Los Abanicos (the
fans of my uncle), in which the members, with Red Shelby as their leader, joined with great hilarity. Raymond Turner
was in charge of the program.

The Spanish Club, closely connected with Sigma Delta Pi, a Spanish honor fraternity, held a joint meeting recently. The program
included several Christmas carols and a Christmas play under the direction of the club's quartet.

Technical Movies Held for Science Students

The second Physics and Chemistry movie was given at 6:45 PM. The films were for the benefit of students in
scientific courses. The movies showed the values in G. E. Direct Current Daymond Motor and the use of bromine with
Ethyl gas. The event was held Thursday evening at the John Marshall Hotel. “This proved to be a very interesting
affair,” said Dr. Hood.

During his absence, Dr. Hood was forced to cut classes from Monday through Thursday.

HEALTH HEALTH WELCOME

When in Charlotte, pass the time in the 20th Century Bowling Recreation Parlor. Latest Brunswick Alleys. 125-127 S. Tryon St.,
Charlotte, N.C.

TARZAN ESCAPES

With Johnny Weissmuller, Maureen O'Sullivan, and Benita Hume. Mon.-Tues. Dec. 14-15

BANJO ON MY KNEE

Starring Joel McCrea and Barbara Stanwyck

GROUPS ENJOY JOINT CONCERT

Orchestra, Glee Club, Quartet, and String Trio Participate. LARGE NUMBER ATTEND. Program Directed By Pfohl And McDonald.

On Friday evening, Dec. 4, the Day College Glee Club, under the direction of Professor Thane McDonald, and the Little
Symphony Orchestra, directed by Professor James Christian Pfohl, performed at Chambers Hall before a large audience, many of whom were
from out of town.

Evening’s Program

The Glee Club sang “Heigh Ho,” “Up Ye Merry Lads,” and “Who Is Sylvia?” Their encore was “Old Home Sweet
Home.” “Come In My Dreams” and “The Parade of the Wooden Soldiers,” composed by O'Hara, Noble Cain, and Jessel, were
sung by the Glee Club. The singing of “O Davidson” completed the evening's program.

Coming Events

Coming musical events of interest in the near future:
Dec. 13, 4:30 PM: Organist Dr. Davidson.
Dec. 18, 8:30 PM: Symphony Orchestra directed by Mr. Nelson Pfohl.
Dec. 20, 7:00 PM: Christmas Vespers.

---

90 minutes of screen joy with the screen's new side-splitting comedy team! Patsy Kelly and Charlie Chase in “KELLY THE
SECOND.” All Seats 25¢ Anytime. Mon.-Tues. MARTHA RAYE in “HIDEAWAY GIRL.”
