LITTLE SYMPHONY TO GIVE CONCERT ON MARCH SIXTH

LIBERTAS JUNIOR SPEAKING TO FEATURE MUSIC OF TUCKER

VOL. XXIII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., MARCH 4, 1936 NUMBER 18

A. A. U. TO HOLD TRYOUTS

TOMMY TUCKER WILL FURNISH RHYTHM FOR CENTENNIAL DANCES

Engaged For VARSITY DEBATERS TO BROADCAST ON FRIDAY

Wilbur Edwards and Harold Sugg, varsity debaters, will meet the University of Richmond in a debate to be broadcast Friday,
March 6, from 9 to 9:15 P.M., over station WSOC.

The question will be: Resolved that Congress should be permitted to over-ride any five-four decision of the Supreme Court declaring
a law of Congress unconstitutional. After this debate, these two members of the Davidson varsity team will leave on the
western trip. On this trip they will meet teams from Sewanee, Centre College, University of West Virginia, and Washington and
Lee.

Plans are now being completed for “the best in Junior Speaking week-ends” by the dance committee, composed of a member
from each social fraternity. Tommy Tucker and his famous eleven-piece orchestra are now playing at the Merry-Go-Round, in Miami. Previously
they have filled many other important engagements, some of which were: Hollywood Restaurant in New York; Wardman Park Hotel in
Washington; and Hotel Statler in Cleveland, where they have just recently finished a record engagement.

Only Two Sunday Night Speakers Have Not Yet Been Announced

Dr. W. L. Lingle, president of the College, has announced the list of vesper speakers for the coming Sundays. On
March 8, Rev. Charles F. Myers, D.D., for many years pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Greensboro, N. C.,
will preach at the evening service. Dr. Myers is a graduate of Washington and Lee and Union Theological Seminary in
Richmond.

On the following Sunday, March 15, the student body of Davidson will hear Rev. Frank E. Gaebelein, of New York.
Rev. J. McDowell Richards, D.D., of Decatur, Ga., will speak at the service on March 22. The next service will
be held on April 5, on account of the spring holidays. Rev. A. B. McClure will probably be the preacher,
although that is not definite yet. The service on April 12 will be devoted to the Easter Concert in charge
of the Y.M.C.A.

Rev. Peter Marshall, who was enthusiastically received when he delivered a series of talks in the fall, will preach at
the evening worship on April 19. Rev. Wallace Alston, of Richmond, Va., will preach at the vesper service on April
26. On May 3, Dr. Price H. Gwynn, of the Davidson faculty, will be in charge. May 10 will bring
Rev. J. H. Marion to the college. Rev. Mr. Marion comes from Rock Hill, S.C. Engagements for May 17 and
May 24 have not yet been made. It is probable that Rev. Nisbet will preach on one of these dates.

Davidson Yowl Appears In Two Weeks

Cover to Be Original Drawing By Hal Overton

Shrouding the date of its appearance in mystery, the staff of the Yowl courageously plans to let out another conglomeration
of short stories, serious articles, and humor within the next two weeks.

The cover for this issue will be an original drawing by the famous cartoonist, Hal Overton. Short stories are to
be contributed by the romantic lover, “Fred” Purnell, and the famous collector of weekend jokes, Harold Sugg. The titles are,
thus far, unknown, but will be selected carefully with the purpose of bringing a smile to some grandmother's lips.

Dick Vowles will again delight his readers with his column Musical Ramblings (a dignified way of saying the “Music Goes
‘Round and Around”), and Bob Johnson's “Did You Know That” will seek to convince the campus of its astonishing ignorance
of facts. Poetry by Sam Ryburn, Dick Vowles, Tredway Purnell, and Arthur Haake (a new contributor to this romantic Yowl)
will just about complete the imposing list of articles for this coming issue.

FRESHMEN FAIL TO OBTAIN VOTE

Franchise Fails to Obtain Favorable Majority By Seven Votes

OBTAIN VOTE MONDAY

Freshmen Voting Prohibited Three Years Past

The Freshman Franchise, to give the freshmen permission to vote in spring elections, which was introduced ten days ago in
chapel, was defeated in the ballot held Monday, March 2. There was a total of 337 votes with 218 for
the proposed amendment and 119 against. The majority necessary to pass this amendment was 225, leaving a lack of seven
votes for a majority. The sophomores were decidedly against the measure, the juniors were divided, and the seniors were definitely
for it.

Each Freshman ballot shall be printed with the words “Freshman Ballot” on it, so that no freshman vote shall count
over its prescribed value. The measure prohibiting freshman voting was passed in the spring term of 1933, the class of
1936 being the last freshman class allowed to vote. The vote was taken away on the grounds that freshmen were
most easily influenced of all members of the student body, and that they knew the nominees less than any other
members. The provision that prohibits freshmen from participating in elections is found in Article 1, Section 3 of the Constitution,
as follows: “Freshmen become members of the Student Body with full rights to vote, immediately upon the installation of the
president of their rising sophomore class.” The amendment was proposed to the student body a week ago last Thursday and
on the table for ten days as is called for in the constitution. When again last Monday a chance was
offered for discussion, none took the opportunity.

By EUCLID FANT

Their shrouded in darkness to doubt for very reason, the faculty member comp. the Quadwranglers’ Club submitted themselves to an
information test at their meeting on last February 27. The test was composed of one or two questions from each
department of the college, supposed to be the knowledge a college graduate should carry with him. There were fifty of
these questions: each correct answer counted plus one, each incorrect answer minus one, and each blanked question counted zero. So
there was...a maximum possibility of plus fifty, and a possibility of minus. Dr. C. K. Brown, spokesman to the press
for the club, stated that he had been given authority to make public only the above facts, together with the
high score and a list of the questions and answers. No names can be revealed, and the lowest grade is
known but to the faculty.

Symphony Will Offer Concert Friday Evening
Thor Johnson, Noted Interpreter, Conducts
Michigan CELLOIST IS FEATURED
Solo With Group

University of Michigan, Thor Johnson conducting, will give a concert on March sixth at eight o'clock. Johnson, a graduate of
Beta Kappa, spent the summer of 1929 in Winston-Salem. Miss City, Philadelphia, it was brought up for musical observation.

LOCALS ATTEND SOUTHEASTERN LAC MEETING
Fifty-Five Universities, Colleges, and Junior Colleges Send Delegates
DR. E. J. FISHER SPEAKS
Winthrop College Plays Host To Many Visitors

Dr. W. W. Lingle, Prof. Iron tis Johnston, Joe Dees, and Pom Downie represented the Davidson International Relations Club in
a meeting of the Southeast district, held at Winthrop College, starting at noon last Thursday and continuing through Saturday. This
meeting was under the auspices of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace. Approximately fifty-five universities, colleges, and junior colleges of
Virginia, North and South Carolina, Pennsylvania, Georgia, Alabama, Florida, and Mississippi sent delegates. The conference was formally opened at the
dinner Thursday night by a cordial welcome address from Dr. Shelton Phelps, president of Winthrop College. Brief talks were given
by Miss Virginia Plowden, student president of the Conference; Miss Lucretia Daniel, president of the Winthrop College I.R.C.; Mr. Arthur
Huckel, for the press; and Mr. Irwin Carothers, mayor of Rock Hill.

AT DAVIDSON
FOUR D.C. GRAPPLERS WILL PARTICIPATE IN SECTIONAL TRYOUTS
STUDENT BODY VOTING IS BEGUN ON MARCH 3
Blackwelder, Hodgin, Parker, and Ellis to Represent Davidson

The annual spring elections for Student Body Offices started on March 3 and will continue for several weeks. Yesterday in
chapel, the students voted for varsity cheerleader. At the time the paper went to press, the results of this election
were not available. The election was between J. D. Allan, K. H. Knorr, R. T. Peters, and F. E. Vogler,
Jr. The cheerleader election will be followed by the Student Body elections, those for the “Y,” the publication elections, and
after these, the class and athletic association elections.

Davidson College will be represented by four men in the first annual Carolinas A.A.U. wrestling championships, in conjunction with the
Olympic sectional tryouts, which will be held here March 13-14, it was announced today by Doc Unger, chairman of the
Carolinas A.A.U. wrestling committee. Leroy Blackwelder, captain of the Davidson wrestling team, will probably be the Wildcats’ most formidable contender,
with Jim Hodgin, Charles Parker, and Sid Ellis also dangerous men in their respective weight classes. All four students have
wrestled well this season and Blackwelder, in particular, has shown the quality to go direct to the final Olympic tryouts
to be held at Bethlehem, Pennsylvania.

Unlike the collegiate tryouts, the meet will be open to all amateur wrestlers from the states of North Carolina, Tennessee,
and Virginia, regardless of whether they are attending educational institutions or not. The main talk of the event was given
by Dr. Edgar J. Fisher, who was introduced by Dr. Thomas W. Lingle. Dr. Fisher spoke on “New Thinking for
Peace.” After this, there was a reception for the guests. The high spot of the Conference was the banquet Friday
night at which Mr. Barr spoke on “The American Problem of Neutrality.” After this, the delegates attended various informal gatherings.

Just before lunch, representatives from Vanderbilt and Auburn made long speeches inviting the Conference to meet at their schools next
year. Auburn was chosen in the final vote as the site for the next meeting. In the election of officers,
a representative from the school where the conference will meet was chosen as president.

Physics Club Holds Meeting
Hornbeck and Huntington Present Papers

Dr. S. Hornbeck and Dr. Huntington presented papers at the Physics Club meeting this week. Dr. Hornbeck spoke on “Capitalized
Human Values in the United States,” emphasizing that human values are greater than property values. Dr. Huntington discussed “The Theocracy
of the Ancient World,” comparing it to modern constitutional monarchy.

Davidson College Band Makes Ten-Day Spring Tour

The Davidson College Band will embark on an extensive ten-day tour of the South, including Georgia and Florida. Their first
appearance will be at the Gastonia High School. Then they will play at the Spartanburg Auditorium. The men who will
be initiated into the band this year are expected to issue a statement soon.
