_ THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 8, 1936 : MARINE CORPS | GRADUATE OF R.O.T.C. TO PLACE ONE AOTC. Outstanding Military Graduate to Be Made Active Second Lieutenant WILL CHOOSE FITTEST President, Dean, Commandant, to Pick Best Man Davidson College R.O.T.C. men are now offered the opportunity of being selected for government service with pay and allowances corresponding to that of light grade men in the regular army. The various appointments which the officer may receive include the following: Appointment to cadetship in the U.S. Coast Guard, Cadet Flying Service, or as detail in the army flying school.

Dr. W.L. Lingle recently received a letter from Naval Headquarters in Washington, D.C., in regard to appointments to the Marine Corps. It reads as follows: “I take pleasure in informing you that the institution of which you are president is one of those selected to make its contribution to the officer personnel of the Marine Corps. I therefore request that you, as soon as possible after March 31, 1936, select and recommend, after consultation with the Dean and the Professor of Military Science and Tactics, the names of one Principal and one Alternate who in your opinion are the most promising undergraduates desiring to enter the Marine Corps as commissioned officers.”

The letter also stated that the officer should be selected by his high moral integrity, leadership ability, physical vigor, and scholastic standing. Candidates must be single and between the ages of twenty and twenty-five years on the date of acceptance of the commission.

“All Second Lieutenants are on probation after two years as commissioned officers, and during this period of probation they must remain single. After three years’ service they are promoted to the position of First Lieutenant, provided they pass required examinations and are pronounced qualified. Second Lieutenants are also required to complete a basic course of instruction in military subjects at the Marine barracks in the Navy Yard, in Philadelphia, Pa. After this training they are available for aid in the United States, at a foreign station, or with a Marine attachment aboard a Naval vessel.

Lieut. Charles H. Harrison is at present ably representing Davidson College by being among this group of selected men attending a Marine school. The local R.O.T.C. department has recently been informed that Lieutenant Harrison stands third in a group of ninety-six officer students.

SCIENTIFIC PICTURES SHOWN TO STUDENTS Two Sound Movies Show Wonders of Science

The second series of moving pictures in one week was presented in the Chemistry building on Friday night at 7 P.M. Two sound pictures were shown, the first being a three and one-half reel picture entitled “The Hottest Flame in the World,” a General Electric film. In this picture Dr. Irving Langmuir, a chemist who has contributed much to our knowledge of the structure of the atom, described his discovery of the hottest flame, of about 4,330 degrees Fahrenheit. Langmuir has also calculated that if the molecules in one cubic inch of air were each changed into a grain of sand the resulting sand would fill a trench a mile wide and three feet deep, reaching from New York to San Francisco.

The second picture of the evening, entitled “Farther, Faster, Safer,” was a three reel picture advertising Pennzoil Motor Oil. First it showed the progress of transportation, especially of the train, automobile, and airplane. This was followed by scenes of numerous speed records in the making, including the record speed for a tractor.

WILL BE LEADER OF Y.M.C.A. SERVICES Carl Pritchett Holds Many Distinguishable Offices While a Student Here WAS MEMBER OF O.D.K. Served as Local “Y” Secretary For Two Years

Carl Pritchett, who is leading a series of six services, under the auspices of the Y.M.C.A. from April 7 through 9, is a Davidson alumnus and left a distinguished record behind him. Pritchett came to Davidson from Reidsville, and before the end of his Freshman year was elected President of his class for the following year. He distinguished himself in basketball consistently all the while he was here. His Junior year Pritchett was elected Vice-President of the student body and Vice-President of the Athletic Association. He was also made captain of the basketball team.

His Senior year, though a non-fraternity man, Pritchett was elected to be President of the student body. He was awarded ODK and was a member of a number of other honorary fraternities. Pritchett was also one of the varsity debaters. He graduated in 1930.

Pritchett served in Davidson the two years immediately following his graduation as Y.M.C.A. secretary, and then entered the Union Theological Seminary in Richmond, in the fall of 1932. Upon his graduation from the seminary, in 1935, Pritchett was elected a Hoge fellow and is finishing his Th.M. degree work this year under that fellowship.

Carl Pritchett has served as assistant pastor for the last four years, last year being the student pastor at Rapidan, Va. Rev. J. B. Overmeyer was the minister of music at the First Church at Gastonia. He entered the Seminary in 1930, graduating in 1933. He has done several years of post-graduate work in Edinburgh. Elected co-pastor with Dr. Moore for the First Presbyterian Church at Bluefield, W. Va., he has been elected to a full pastorship since the recent resignation of Dr. Moore.

STUDENTS AID ALUMNI WORK Alumni Association Collects $350 in Canvass

During the holidays, the Alumni Office had sixteen Davidson students canvassing the alumni of their home towns interviewing them in regards to paying dues. The results of this solicitation for dues were reported to be exceptionally good, netting the Alumni Association treasury $350, with about one hundred additional alumni joining the association. Grier Martin, Alumni Secretary, stated that the solicitation turned out so well that it probably would be done again next year.

Those men working were: L. L. Burton, in Asheville; W. C. Brown, Atlanta, Ga.; Walter Dickson, Anderson, S.C.; I. B. McClung, Bluefield, W. Va.; Charlie Brown, Charlotte; T. E. McConnell, Chester, S.C.; Hoke Robinson, Columbia, S.C.; Teeny Lafferty, Concord; Tom Marchant, Greenville, S.C.; W. L. Kuykendall, Greensboro; Frank Parker, High Point; W. I. Kiesewetter, Philadelphia, Pa.; William Higgins, Richmond, Va.; W. M. Beaty, Rock Hill, S.C.; Lawrence Hill, Statesville; Mills Taylor, Wilmington, and R. B. Lindsay, Winston-Salem.

FACTS ABOUT CHESTS GIVEN BY PROFESSOR

Minneapolis, Minn. — If your chest is flat you are probably more intelligent than that fellow over there whose bulging, barrel chest interferes with the view of his feet. At least so says Dr. S. A. Weisman of the University of Minnesota, who has spent a lot of time peering and probing into the matter. He concludes that flat-chested persons not only average greater intelligence than the full-chested, but are taller and heavier.

Co-ed Reporter Collects Facts Concerning D.C. Janitors Town Tattle

The Junior Class of the Davidson high school sponsored a popularity and beauty contest the past week in order to raise funds for the Junior-Senior banquet. In the popularity contest Maureen Raymer was the winning girl and Kenneth Pope the winning boy. The beauty contest, confined to boys, was won by Thomas Withers.

Mrs. E. F. Shewmake, who was called to Staunton, Va., by the death of her uncle, will return the latter part of the week.

Mrs. Lewis Schenck was hostess to the Thelemite Club Friday afternoon, April 3. Officers elected for the coming year are Mrs. E. J. Erwin, President; Mrs. C. K. Brown, Vice-President; and Mrs. G. F. Laird, Secretary-Treasurer.

Mr. and Mrs. Grier Martin and Miss Caroline Lingle spent the spring holidays in New York City. Mr. Martin attended a meeting of the New York alumni.

Mrs. Cloyd Goodman and daughters, Miriam and Emily, have returned after a visit of several days with relatives in Rome, Ga.

The Booklovers’ Club held its regular meeting Friday afternoon at the home of Mrs. W. P. Cumming. Miss Kate Douglas gave a paper on Victorian poetry. The theme of next year’s study will be “Modern Trends.”

Spencer Blackwelder was the winner of the W.C.T.U. declamation contest held at the Davidson high school the past week. Other contestants were Julia Mebane, Margaret Williams, Gillian Brown, and Kenneth Pope.

Mrs. L. Brady of Richmond, Va., who has been the guest of Mrs. R. Withers, has returned home.

Mrs. Agnes Brown is visiting in Greeneville, Tenn., as the guest of Mrs. W. Heilman.

Dr. and Mrs. R. S. Burwell and Mrs. Mattie Burwell Murphy have returned from a visit of several weeks in Wilmington and other points in North Carolina.

Mrs. Charles Seifert entertained Thursday afternoon in honor of her guest, Mrs. Lloyd Reid of Philadelphia, Pa.

CUNNINGHAM CONDUCTS VARIED BAND PROGRAM

The Davidson College Band presented its regular Friday broadcast on Friday night, April 3, from 10:15 to 10:30 o'clock. In the absence of Mr. Pfohl, Moreland Cunningham, assistant director, conducted the broadcast. The program was announced by Enoch.

Claims Longer Connection With College Than Dr. Harding SERVED MANY ALUMNI Men Compose Interesting and Valuable Group

Colored people are almost always interesting, and the Davidson janitors are no exception. They range in length of service, anywhere from Enoch, who claims to have been here when Dr. C. R. Harding first came, to the men who have been put on in the last year or two. As for Enoch’s story about when he came, there appears to be some fallacy, because the annual of 1895 which has a picture of the Davidson janitors at that time, did not show him in the group; yet Dr. Harding was on the faculty list then. The explanation may be one of two things. The first is that Enoch served Dr. John B. Shearer until his death and then was put on as a college janitor. In this way, he was connected with the school, but not actually in the service. The second reason might be Enoch’s own memory, which seems to be accurate enough, but might be a bit hazy on certain points. However, he remembers positively that he was not here during the War Between the States.

To those who have complained that this has been a bad winter, Enoch has some stories to tell. He says that he has fired the furnaces and looked after “his white friends” around here in more different kinds of weather than can be imagined — rain,snow, sleet, ice, and a balmy wind. We told Dr. Ben Lacy while Luther Watts was a student at the college here that he would be a distinguished minister (Dr. Lacy is now president of the Union Theological Seminary in Richmond). And many other famous alumni once had their shoes shined and their beds made up by this same Enoch. “Why can the faculty sleep in their beds comfortably on bad nights and never worry (Continued on Page 3).

Dr. HOOD GOES NORTH
Visits Daughter and Speaks to Alumni Chapter

Dr. Hood recently made a trip to New York, addressing the Alumni Chapter at a banquet. Dr. Hood's original purpose in taking the trip was to visit his daughter, who is studying drama. While there, on March 30, Dr. Hood had as his general topic “Reminiscences of Davidson College and its aspects.” On the day of the banquet, Dr. Wilbur Edwards, president-elect of the Alumni Chapter, attended a luncheon given by the student body. The band presented a fifteen-minute broadcast opened with “O Davidson.” The program consisted of a musical version of “Old McDonald’s Farm,” by Yoder; the baritone trio of Julian Helms, Jack Tillotson, and Harry Parker presented “Three Kings,” the piece which the trio featured on the tour; and the final piece by the band was the Overture to “Semiramide,” by Rossini. The broadcast was closed as usual with the playing of “O Davidson.”

A Harvard zoologist risked his life to enter his burning home the other day. He was after a set of corrected exam papers.

Middlebury College will join other schools in dropping Latin and math as entrance requirements.

Gasoline will win the next war, according to Dr. Merrel K. Fenske of Penn State.

Finest Quality Expert Workmanship
BUFF SHOE SHOP
“SUDDEN SERVICE”

Mr. Koiftfelt, an alumnus of Davidson who will be remembered as a star football player, attended the luncheon held in the Bank. Others at the luncheon were Mr. Lunsford Richardson, who presented the Richardson stadium, Mr. Leroy A. Mullin, Mr. Grier Martin, Mr. Wagner, and Mr. Yates, all Davidson alumni. Dr. Hood said, “We had a great time discussing old days when those men were here at Davidson.” Dr. Hood made a shorter trip this last Sunday, speaking to the Sunday School and Church at Lenoir. He addressed the Sunday School on “Christian Education,” and at the morning service in the church spoke on “Are We Living on Our Spiritual Capital?”

STUDENTS SEE MOVIES ABOUT SCIENCE WORK
Lens Making, Electric Liner, and Railway Tunnel Portrayed
ACCOMPANIED BY SOUND
Films Furnished by Lomb Optical and G. E. Co.

“Glass Magic,” “The Electric Ship,” and “Conquering the Cascades” were the titles of three films exhibited in the chemistry lecture room Wednesday night, April 11, under the auspices of the departments of Physics and Chemistry. The first film was a three-reel silent picture showing the process of making lenses, from sand to spectacles. The process of making the pots or crucibles was illustrated, with views of mining the chemicals, starting the melting, and a number of general views of the factory. The glass was then shown in the molten state at 2000 degrees Celsius (C). The process of dipping out samples, testing the samples, and selecting the batches was then shown. The second reel showed the process of pouring the molten glass and rolling it out into sheets, then passing it through the annealing ovens to cool evenly. The glass was then broken up and inspected. Special machines then cut round discs out of the broken pieces, and the discs were smoothed. Then the discs were pressed into shape by special machines, after being heated red-hot. Next, there was a long process of polishing to put the correct curve on the surface—concave or convex, cylindrical or spherical. The third reel showed the rough lenses being subjected again to repeated inspection, the marking of the axis and center of each lens, and the individual polishing of the lens for optical perfection. Again there was a process of cutting, of putting the special edges to give the lens the stylish shape, and of drilling small holes with diamond-pointed drills for the frames. The film “The Electric Ship” portrayed vividly the life aboard and the operation of a modern electric motor vessel, as well as carrying glimpses of the ship’s crew and passengers.

MANY NEW ISSUES OF RECENT WORKS ADDED TO LIBRARY
Numerous Varied Volumes Swell Shelves of Davidson Collection
THREE TYPES OF WORK
Baker’s “Woodrow Wilson” Increases Present Series

Among the new books which have been placed on the Davidson College Library shelves within the last two weeks are to be found biographies, novels, and a book on science. The novels include many by authors of note. Franz Werfel, who gained fame with his “The Forty Days of Musa Dagh,” contributes another book to the best sellers in “The Pascarella Family,” the story of a family of seven living in the shadow of Mount Vesuvius. William Allen White's “In Our Town,” also a new addition, deals with the daily life in a modern Kansas town. Gladys Hasty Carroll in “As the Earth Turns” writes of the people of southern Maine, from the 1870s to modern times. Another acquisition to the library is “Paths of Glory” by Humphrey Cobb, a war story which catapulted its then-unknown author into fame.

COLLEGES JOIN SAFETY DRIVE
Collegiate America Cognizant of Highway Horrors

(By Associated Collegiate Press)

It is coming to be generally recognized that one of the most serious problems that faces the American people today is the question of the number of deaths each year due to accidents on our highways. This long list of casualties annually increases in spite of more efficient automobiles and more intelligent handling of traffic problems. It is the recognition of this grave problem that today has started a nationwide drive among American colleges and universities for traffic safety. College newspapers in such schools as Yale, Harvard, Princeton, and Columbia have safety driving pledges requesting the signatures of undergraduates and good films on traffic situations are being shown at the larger universities. Many of the larger universities have student-operated traffic control. At Louisiana State, student direction of traffic on the campus may become a permanent part of the student council set-up. In cooperation with this safety campaign, it has been suggested by the National Student Federation of America that the student council of each school to some extent at least should handle the punishment of the student violators of college or community traffic laws.

Margaret Ayer Barnes’ latest book, “Within This Present,” also is in the library.

FRENCH GROUP WILL PRESENT ONE-ACT PLAY
Le Cercle Francais Production Is Entitled “La Lettre Chargee”
DRAMA IS A COMEDY
Barrow, Cothran, Glass, and Poe to Star in Play

Although no definite date has been set, the local chapter of Le Cercle Francais is hard at work on the production of the play “La Lettre Chargee,” by Eugene Labiche. The characters, all of which are played by members of the French society, are:
Hortense, a young widow — J. Glass
Hector, a suitor for Hortense’s hand — Wade Barrow
Peter Fougasson, an American — J.C. Cothran
Francine — Frank Poe

The play, a comedy, is built around the wooing by Hector, a young lawyer, of the charming widow, Hortense. However, his suit does not prosper. She admits that she favors him, but she refuses to marry him because he has a habit of using extremely long, complicated adverbs in his speech, to which she objects. At the time of the play, she has received several unusual letters from an American, Fougasson. He has never seen her but has seen her picture and wants to marry her because she resembles his wife, who was reported drowned in the Ohio River. Fougasson comes to her house and threatens suicide if she refuses to marry him. The play revolves around this ridiculous situation. Fougasson gets a cable that his wife after all is not dead. Hortense finally decides to marry Hector, and all live happily ever after.

The play with supporting cast of stars will be presented at Winthrop College in Rock Hill, S.C. on a date yet to be decided. After this, it will be given in Davidson in Chambers Auditorium.

PHYSICS FRATERNITY INITIATES FIVE MEN
Bill Douglas and Jeff Moore Address Group

Sigma Pi Sigma, honorary Physics Fraternity, initiated Sam Henry, Dunlap Covington, Milton Crisp, John Andrews, and Martin Lafferty at their regular meeting on Monday night, March 16. Selections for membership were made on the basis of interest and scholarship in Physics. At the meeting, the members discussed the adding of qualifications in mathematics to the existing requirements for membership. On the program was a talk by Jeff Moore on “Neutrons and Their Production,” and a discussion of current events of interest to Physics students by Bill Douglas. The grades required for initiation into the fraternity are an average of B or better in all Physics courses.

“Refreshment Time” ON THE AIR
RAY NOBLE
His Orchestra
EVERY WEDNESDAY NIGHT
COLUMBIA NETWORK
WBT 9:30

Commercial and Social Printing and Publishing
Book and Catalog Publishing a Specialty
REPRESENTATIVES: LAMONT BROWN—R. P. MORROW
STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, N. C.