The Davidsonian _ Founded By the Class of 1915 1935 Member 1936 Associated Collegiate Press Distributor of Collegiate Digest Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson” Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY Charlotte, North Carolina SUBSCRIPTION RATES Ten cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate year. Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879. ARTICLES FOR PUBLICATION must be in the hands of Managing Editors by 4:00 o'clock p.m. Monday. Letters to the Editor are welcome, but all communications intended for publication must be signed. LAMONT BROWN R. P. MORROW, Jr. - EDITORIAL STAFF -Managing Editor -Managing Editor Managing Editor Managing Editor Jim Morton Lowell Overton Harold Sugg Raymond Turner John Winn -Managing Editor Harry Kuykendall Sports Editor Martin Barnes Associate Editor Harvey Glass Associate Editor Pat Harland Associate Editor Tom Marchant Associate Editor John Walker Associate Editor BUSINESS STAFF Charles Mauze Circulation Manager Bob Vance Circulation Manager Hope Robinson Advertising Manager Bud Hill Collection Manager Pitt Dyer Assistant Business Manager WEDNESDAY, MARCH 25, 1936 Finally, my brethren, be strong in the Lord, and in the power of His might. Ephes. 6:10. THINGS DAVIDSON NEEDS... New Infirmary New Gymnasium New Library New Dormitories New Science Building Social Center An Enlarged Curriculum. Paragraphics.... Congratulations to The Mowl staff on the current issue of that resurrected periodical, which almost sacrificed itself on the proverbial altar of journalism. The squabble over Dr. Frank Graham of the University of North Carolina has become a political issue in this state and may be a deciding factor in electing the next Governor. Congratulations to the Red and Black Masquers for the second excellent performance they have put on this year. Miss Letitia Currie, we understand, got up from a bed of illness to take her part as leading lady in this very entertaining drama. A pun worth printing: “Adolf may be the best Führer in Germany, but he would have difficulty even rating hat boy in the United States.” Au Revoir.... Swan songs are conventionally appropriate when old orders give way to the new, when elders drop to the succeeding younger generation a heritage that should be increased and willed on in future years, and when a college editor hands down to his chosen successor the responsibilities which he has carried on from his predecessors. During the past year some opportunities have been grasped and made use of, many others knocked upon deaf ears and died from non-use. It is hoped that partially, at least, all traditional characteristics have been upheld during the twentieth year of The Davidsonian's existence. And most of all it is hoped that The Davidsonian has in some way made its motto, “For a Better Davidson,” more real in the minds of the students, faculty and alumni. In some way this motto is rather absurd. No college paper would be used as a detrimental force on its campus, but at the same time it reminds us that we never reach the time when we can draw up an easy chair and proudly warm by the fire, fully confident that our college is the best, there is no more room for improvement, so THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 25, 1936 Old Land Marks.... On the very front of the Davidson campus are five time-worn edifices, which have weathered the decades since the college was founded about one hundred years ago. Each of these antiquated structures is steeped in traditional and sentimental memories of by-gone years that should arouse within us appreciable pride sufficient to encourage better care in the use of them as well as an interest in seeing that they present favorable appearances to passers-by. The Eumenean Literary Society hall, of which Woodrow Wilson was once a member, makes an unsightly impression both to drivers along the highway and to students who see it daily as they trek to and from the post office. The walls are battered and ugly. One window blind is hanging like a drunk from a lamp post and the woodwork at the front of the building is rickety and unattached. This general dilapidation in appearance seems to give every Tom, Dick and Harry in the neighborhood license to use the old landmark just as he pleases, utterly regardless of its sacred place in Davidson's history. The Phi Hall, Oak and Elm Row and Shearer Hall are the remaining members of Davidson's original quadrangle, and even though they don't need the attention that Eu Hall does, a coat of paint would improve their looks considerably. These "old landmarks” mean much less to the students now in the student body, than to those who have long since passed through these noble gates, but they were at one time all Davidson had. So in approaching the close of one hundred years of educational service these ancient shrines should be clothed in pleasing appearances that would increase our pride in them and enhance our desire to preserve them. School For Untrained Voices In the interests of the employment of the graduating Senior class we suggest the establishment of a voice school for those novices who plan to enter a profession where a different voice would be ruinous. We would have a special apparatus for singers which would grasp the vocalist by the shoulder and lift him at intervals and let him drop at the end of words. He would then say, “ugh!" and after so much practice he would sing in this manner: “He could-uh sing like a birdeuh!" In order to get his diploma he would also have to practice until he pronounced wind as though it were wined. Classes would also be conducted for drying up conductors, boring guides to death and saddening preachers to tears so that they will each speak in the required manner of "Good New Miserable." If other students on the campus have other suggestions for new clubs or fraternities (there is one ennobling every subject) it is the Les Miserables Club, consisting of those poor fools whose lot it is to forever have their rooms removed or who suffer an uncomplimentary nickname. Bob Vance and Charles Mauze are deans of the room-moving department, and the columnist claims all-round membership in the paper. We believe he has the most ignominious monicker in school. Another ornery fraternity is the Rock Hill Geological Society, probably led by Jim Cothran, which would study the rocks in Rock Hill much as the geographical survey that was conducted during Junior Speaking. The question was: do street cars run east or north in Japan? Only one person knows the answer. The Juniors Spoke Another echo of that great set is the announcement that Colonel Johnson is to run for the Republican nomination for Presidency on the platform for deflation. We don't know what he deflates. Ask Rip Cathey. And ask Bob Lindsay about the cats.Congratulations to Squirrel and other groups connected with the college that on his 4th floor East is exercising the influence that should properly and sympathy in his convalescence: in the spring the thoughts of the Young Bros. turn to white shoes. Back in the earlier and better days of this column we got something on Ab Price about his preferring age and Whitman Samplers to youth and bon-bons (remember the State game?) but were scared to run it. Well, for twenty years we have waited to get it but haven't succeeded. He is a sissy for not doing anything scandalous.

Grapeshot: Carolina, there is a great stone face with a chin like Bob Atwater’s. You have chosen Jim Morton as editor of the paper for the centennial year, and it is with reluctance that the retiring editor passes on his position, but it is at the same time with a feeling of gratitude for having been afforded the privilege and an assured confidence that the new editor can serve even better than the one from whom he receives the responsibility.

Davidson is better than most colleges. Keep it climbing; let the world model after us and strive to reach our standards.

This Collegiate World (By Associated Collegiate Press)

The people in the hot country of India have a considerable weakness for titles, degrees, and other forms of embellishment, related Dr. John Scudder in a lecture at Rutgers University. To illustrate, Dr. Scudder told about receiving a calling card from a man in Calcutta. This man had been flunked out of his college. In the lower corner, after the name, there was printed, “Failed, B.A.”

Miss Pipher, columnist at Los Angeles Junior College, is somewhat discouraged with Prof. Rollin’ F. Charles of Franklin and Marshall College for his recent deflationary remarks concerning a song which Miss Pipher rather likes. This song is “The Music Goes ‘Round and Around.” This is false propaganda, says Prof. Charles. While the music may come out “here,” it simply does not go round and round inside the horn. There just isn’t any music at all until the sound waves reach the bell of the horn. Then the air column and the instrument itself oscillate to produce the tonal effect. Miss Pipher is discouraged because she has been experimenting with the new conception of the song. Her efforts have only brought her to, “The air column goes round and round and it oscillates here.” She doesn't care for it.

Science is wonderful and ingenuity is wonderful and pretty soon all the little problems that vex you are going to be solved. This week's report of solved problems concerns the neat device employed by a young man at Northwestern University when he wished to extract gold from his male parent. He carefully follows market reports in the daily newspaper and whenever the stocks his father holds go up, then he drops a note to the father, expecting to hit him in the correct mood.

Ad in a Portland, Me., paper: “Wanted, three attractive young ladies for three Bowdoin men to take to house parties. Picture must accompany reply.”

Norfolk, Va.: K. M. Scott, China; J. H. Ross, Mexico; and A. J. Stevens, Schenectady, N. Y.

(By Associated Collegiate Press)

Washington, D.C.—What singles out The Hatchet, student newspaper of George Washington University, for special mention is the location of the University itself, in the nation's capital. What does this newspaper, at the seat of the government, offer the country’s campus newspapers in the way of leadership? There is no doubt that with the attention focused on Washington to the extent that it is now, the reaction of the student paper of an important university here to what legislators do or do not do about problems of youth, or even the problems of society as a whole, would have its reverberations on college papers throughout the country.

The consensus of opinion among the liberals of the George Washington campus is that The Hatchet doesn't have any reactions of any importance. The conservatives think it fulfills the function of telling them what's going on and where, and that that’s as far as campus journalism should go. Some 7,000 students, of all shades of political opinion, pay the university a student fee that includes a subscription to The Hatchet. Curiously enough, although the university requires that subscription of registrants and thereby maintains a large and steady circulation for The Hatchet, it does not in turn exercise any sort of overt control or censorship of the publication. Neither copy nor proofs have to go to faculty advisers or deans for approval before the paper goes to press. And each year the new editor is chosen among the seniors on the paper by their own vote.

Charlotte, N.C.

Around Washington By Arnold Serwer

FAUL AND CRYMES, INC. SPORTING GOODS

And yet, in spite of all this freedom from censorship, The Hatchet conducts very few campaigns, rarely waxes indignant over anything, has no strong editorial policy, and in general seems to yawn along from year to year, according to campus liberals. The editor, Eleanor Heller, a quiet young law student, explains the lack of friction between the paper and the university administration by saying that it so happens that she and The Hatchet see eye to eye with university officials on most matters. Earlier this year Miss Heller had trouble with a number of staff members who later resigned in a body. She is of the opinion that they wanted control of the paper for radical reasons, and failing in their objective, left in protest. Liberal and radical students declare they wanted to inject some life into The Hatchet and make it stand for something.

At this writing, it seems that no matter which of three leading contenders for next year’s editorship is chosen next month, the paper will continue to pursue a conservative course. The liberal possibilities eliminated themselves by resigning. In its present uncensored status, with its excellent financial standing and large body of subscribers, it would easily become a force on the George Washington campus and in college journalism everywhere. Ex-college editors and editorialists here, who in their day achieved some measure of fame as undergraduate Greeleys, think the university paper should represent student interests more belligerently, should encourage debate and interest in the world outside among its students, and in general should get off “dead center.”

JIM MORTON WILL EDIT THE DAVIDSONIAN (Continued from Page 1)

He has served on the staffs of the magazine and Quips and Cranks. He is a member of the Junior Dance committee, junior baseball manager, and cadet sergeant of Company A. Sugg, from Greenville, is a member of Phi Gamma Delta, social fraternity; of Sigma Upsilon, national honorary literary organization; of Alpha Phi Epsilon, forensic group; of the International Relations Club. Also, he is a member of the Forensic Council and varsity debate manager. He is an assistant in history. For the past year, he has been known as the author of “Davidson Off the Record” and “columnist PAR EXCELLENCE.” He has also worked on The Yowl and the annual staffs.

The selection of the magazine editors was based on their work from the time they began as freshmen up to the present date. For the last three issues, the sophomore candidates have been allowed to serve as managing editors, and some idea of their ability was gathered from this work. Other sophomores who have served on the staff for the last two years are Al Cates, Sky Cline, Milton Crisp, Fitz Dade, Larnie Dooley, and Jack Lafferty.

MASQUERS GIVE (Continued from Page 1)

A fit set-off for the part of Lord Birten, played by Malone, was General Northrup (Hector McGeachy) whose sword clanked more convincingly than anyone else’s. At one time several of the audience close enough to the stage looked hard to see if the General's teeth were not involuntarily gnashing. But the poor King Eric—who finally reasserted his royal prerogative and proved himself every inch a king, to the vast discomfiture we hope, of his wife—was one on whom the burden of the acting rested. It was a difficult part to play—although for that matter, all required long and exhausting work—and as it was played, no one could find fault, nor deny that Bob Lindsay had a talent for sympathetic portrayal of put-upon royalty. His secretary, who had fully as difficult a part to play, without the necessity for such character changes as his master was obliged to produce, showed that his finesse was terrific, as some movie critics love to say. We have seldom seen so smooth and suave a villain as was Mr. McIlwinen, Prince William of Greece. His acting was as smooth as the elaborate stage-setting; and for such wonderful efforts as Director Dave Herring and his helpers achieved in this project, that is saying a great deal. The background of black drapes with silver fleur-de-lis was the most impressive thing that has been seen around the campus for any stage production in many years. Although all the characters who worked so long and so hard on this play cannot be mentioned in the limits of this article, they should understand that the thanks of all who saw the performance are given to them for their work.

COLLEGE MUSIC (Continued from Page 1)

The highlight of the tour is a radio broadcast from Atlanta. Station WSB will present the Davidson band on Tuesday, March 31, at 1:00 P.M. (Central Standard Time) or 2:00 o'clock, Davidson time. The broadcast will last forty-five minutes. The itinerary of the trip will be as follows: Monday night, March 23, Gastonia; Tuesday morning, March 24, Kings Mountain; Tuesday afternoon, March 24, Gaffney, S.C.; Tuesday night, March 24, Greenville, S.C.; Wednesday afternoon, March 25, Demorest, Ga.; Wednesday night, March 25, Agnes Scott, Decatur, Georgia; Thursday afternoon, March 26, Martha Berry School, Rome, Ga.; Thursday night, March 26, Darlington School, Rome, Ga.; Friday night, March 27, City High School Auditorium, Chattanooga, Tenn.; Saturday night, March 28, Montreat, N.C.; Sunday, March 29, Montreat; Monday afternoon, March 30, Lenoir; Monday night, March 30, Morganton; Tuesday night, March 31, Winston-Salem; Wednesday morning, April 1, Clemmons. All details of the trip have been arranged by R. R. Purdy, manager of the band. Programs have been prepared, containing, besides the list of numbers to be played, a list of the band members, information about the college, and an engraving of the Chambers Building.

Columbia's class of 1935 is 75 percent employed.