Baseball Games With Wake Forest Conclude Varsity Athletic Program

THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 13, 1936

With the mid-season hue and cry of the baseball season ringing in our ears, we now come to bid goodbye
to another year of sports at Davidson. We have played the best teams; we have won and we have lost;
but in our midst, there are still those who have had the ability all the while but have never received
notice of their achievements. When the day comes for athletes of today to become the coaches of tomorrow, perhaps we
shall find one of the unknowns gracing one of the top rungs of the ladder, like the famous swimming coach
who can't even swim.

With the dawning of graduation breaking over our campus, it always seems we will never fill the vacancies left in
our ranks. But with the coming of another campaign, there inevitably come new stars that force us to forget the
old. Last year the topics of general sports conversation were Johnny Mackorell, Boody Wingfield, Dewey Hutchins, Jim Morgan, Charles Harris,
John Seivers, and Charlie Fort. This year in their places have come others—seniors, juniors, and sophomores—who will hold these posts
until taking leave. Then the process of filling the ranks begins again.

This year we've cheered and praised many, with Paul Pittman, Henry Cathey, Cole Windham, Wood Leroy Blackwelder, Carlyle Lewis, Jack
Jenkins, and Bill Merchant sharing the limelight. Our exhausted. Our fates next season depend on a bevy of stars.

FOOTBALL—
In football, we won no titles, but every game saw the Wildcats putting up a real scrap. “Playful Paul” Pittman,
performing in his brilliant manner, served in the spearhead of the attack, but the forward wall, led by Henry Cathey,
Dick Johnson, Raily Williams, Six Johnson, John Lee, and Cole Windham held its own with the best. Captain-elect Johnson, Williams,
Joe Hunter, Haywood Hill, and others will return to form a nucleus in the line, and Teeny Lafferty, Fred Dennis,
Alternate Captain-elect Ed Armfield, Tom Corbin, Charles Seat, and Chubby King will form the main firing line as the backfield.
New teams to be faced include Navy, Centre, and Furman. This prospect leaves us the realization that every game will
be close, and we will win our share.

BASKETBALL—
The basketball season wasn’t a howling success in the sense of wins and losses, but the bright spot centers on
the bright outlook for next year. Led by Bill Quick and Maurice Peabody, the team improved steadily. Next year, led
by Quick, they will have one year of teamwork behind them, and a splendid dash.

WALKER PLACES FIRST IN TRACK FIELD TRIALS
Freshmen Capture Class Honors as Decathlon Competition Closes

SOPHS FINISH SECOND
Boyd, Wicker, and Sears Finish Near Top

W. E. Walker of the Freshman class won first place in the Decathlon last week by scoring 347 points. This
is the first time since the Decathlon was begun at Davidson that a Freshman has won the event. W. A.
Boyd, also a freshman, placed second with 335 points, while W. M. Wicker came third with 263 3-4 and C.
L. Sears fourth with 254.

Walker entered in ten of the fourteen events. He ran the 100-yard dash in 11.4 seconds, the 220-yard in 25
seconds, and the 440 in 55.2 seconds. He added to his points by running the mile in 5:30, the 880-yard
run in 2:25.9, and the two-mile run in 10:37. He ran the high hurdles in 19.0 seconds and the low
hurdles in 28.3 seconds. His discus throw was 94.2 feet.

The freshmen won the intramural track meet with 51 1-2 points. The sophomores came next with 49 1-2, the seniors
third with 37 1-2, and the juniors last with 18 1-2 points.

Requirements to qualify in the Decathlon are as follows: 100-yard dash, 14 seconds; 220-yard dash, 29 seconds; 440-yard dash, 64
seconds; 880-yard run, 2:24 minutes; mile run, 6:50 minutes; 2-mile run, 13:00 minutes; high hurdles, 20 seconds; low hurdles, 30
seconds; high jump, 4 feet; pole vault, 7 feet 6 inches; broad jump, 17 feet 3 inches; shot put, 25
feet; discus throw, 80 feet; and the javelin, 115 feet.

Six seniors, twelve juniors, ten sophomores, and eleven freshmen were entered in the Decathlon competition this year.

FROSH TENNIS TEAM ENDS COMPETITION
Garner Victory Over Raleigh, Lose to State

The Freshman tennis team wound up its season last week by defeating Raleigh High School and dropping a close one
to the State Yearlings.

Davidson 7—Raleigh High 0
The Kittens took this match with the loss of only two sets. Summary: Jones (D) beat Wright 6-0, 7-5. Cloyd
(D) beat McMillan 6-3, 6-2. White (D) beat Basden 4-6, 8-6, 6-4. Lawson (D) beat Wooten 10-8, 6-4. Sloan (D)
beat Jenkins 7-5, 6-4. Jones-White beat Basden-Wright 6-4, 4-6, 6-3. Sloan-Cloyd beat Hinkle-Campbell 6-0, 6-0.

State 4—Davidson 3
To complete the roster, Wade Barrow, John Armstrong, Herman Yearwood, Ken Knorr, Bill Hancock, and Lawrence Reid will see plenty
of action.

GOLF—
Golf will be represented by a veteran group that has served on the team for two years already. Bill Snow,
Charlie Ross, George Cowan, and Ralph McLellan are these linksmen. Henson Maples, a sophomore, has shown promise, and he will
join Ray Pittman in the scramble for berths next year.

TENNIS—
The tennis team boasted probably the best record of any of the athletic teams, and this record is based on
wins and losses. Bronston Kenny, George Hornbeck, Harry Frampton, and Carl Carlson will return for the season next year, but
graduation takes Carlyle Lewis, Bill Bell, Jake Morrow, and Martin Barnett. The prospects aren't too bright, but maybe the answer
will arise from Wilson Northcross, Perry Sloan, George Jones, and Ed Cloyd of the freshman class.

TRACK—
The track team showed up well, but Earl Frazier was sorely missed. Captain Billy Merchant and John Lee showed up
well, as did Wade Barrow, Walt Dickson, Jim Johnston, and others.

Dr. McCallie Will Speak For Annual Athletic Day

JIM JOHNSTON TO HEAD TRACK TEAM
Jim D. Johnston was elected captain of the 1937 track team by sophomore and junior track lettermen last week. Other
lettermen among the juniors eligible for the honor include Frank Brown, Bill Deyerle, Walt Dickson, Mokey Faison, and Dick Johnson.
Johnston has represented Davidson in the javelin this year. Russell Patterson was selected as varsity manager for next spring, and
Tom Breeden takes care of the freshmen next year. Charles Malone, Ernest Dooley, and J. O. Lafferty have been chosen
as junior managers.

BUDDY YOUNG PICKED AS BEST DEVELOPED
Freshman Wins Physical Improvement Award

The medal for the greatest physical improvement for the year 1935-1936 was won by Buddy Young of the rising sophomore
class, with a gain of 14 7-8 inches. Runner up for the award was J. M. Graves, also of the
freshman class, with an increase of 13 6-8 inches. In the class averages, the freshmen again stood first with 20
points, the sophomores were next with 15 points, the juniors followed with 10 points, and the seniors were last with
5 points.

These measurements for physical improvement have been taken for about eight years. Each year the class standings have been about
the same. This is probably because the students gradually stop growing as they grow older. The points made in the
physical improvement test by the four different classes count toward the Intramural Trophy. Last year the physical improvement medal was
won by Thomas Hoover of the present senior class.

(Continued on Page 6)

Alumni Paper Is Published

On Saturday the Alumni Journal will be sent to all alumni that have paid their dues. This number will total
about 1800 copies. The Journal will contain an article by Dr. W. L. Lingle on the plans for the Centennial
to be held next year. Included in this article are the facts about the new stadium that the Richardson brothers
are giving the school. The endowment has also been increased. Mr. Grier Martin, former secretary of the Alumni and editor
of the Journal, has written an editorial. Another editorial is by Summerell, catcher. Announcement of the graduation exercises and a
program of the ceremony is also included in the Journal.

Ceremony to Be Observed During Chapel Service, Friday, May 15th

YARBOROUGH TO PRESIDE
Year’s Athletic Awards Will Be Presented

Annual Athletic Day is to be observed Friday morning at the chapel period. Dr. S. J. McCallie of the McCallie
School located at Chattanooga will be the speaker of the morning. At this time the awards, certificates, and trophies won
during the year will be formally presented to the various athletes. Dr. McCallie is one of the executive heads of
McCallie School, from which many Davidson students come. He is interested in Davidson. Dr. McCallie will be given an invitation
to the Delta Circle of Omicron Delta Kappa Friday night.

The chapel period will be extended to about eleven o'clock in order to complete the program. Baxter Yarborough, President of
the “I” Club, will preside over the program. It is planned to have members of the faculty make the various
awards and the captains of the teams to announce the awards won by members of their respective teams. Among the
awards to be made will be included the following: Physical Improvement Award, Gymnastic Trophy, Basketball Trophy to some member of
the team for outstanding merit, Decathlon Award, Interfraternity and Intramural Championships, and certificates for letters given in all sports.

Each year some person or persons other than athletes are given Wildcat Footballs. These men are chosen for exceptional interest,
enthusiasm, and spirit in Wildcat sports activities. These men have not been chosen as this is written but usually some
member of the faculty is included in the group. These awards will also be made Friday morning.

KA'S TROUNCE SPE'S IN FRATERNITY GAME
Cumbie’s Pitching and Hitting Leads Victors

The KA’s defeated the SPE's in the opening game of the interfraternity baseball series last Friday, May 8, by a
score of 19-15. A. V. Cumbie, of the KA’s, scored two home runs to lead in that department, and Phil
Friberg, SPE, Charles Sample, SPE, Polk Moffett, KA, and Jim Johnson, KA, were able to hit out one “homer” each.

The SPE's led in the scoring until the sixth inning, 12-9, but the KA’s forged ahead in the last half
of the sixth by scoring nine more runs. In the seventh, the KA’s scored one run and the SPE's four,
and the game ended with the KA’s in the lead with a score of 19-15. The winners were represented on
the field by Cumbie, pitcher; Pratt, first base; Dennis, second base; J. D. Johnson, shortstop; Taylor, third base; Steffen, left
field; J. D. Johnson, center field; and Summerell, catcher.

Summary: Canady (S) beat Sloan 6-4, 6-4. Satterfield (S) beat Cloyd 5-6, 6-3. Jones (D) beat Cline 6-1, 6-3. White
(D) beat Foushee 3-6, 6-1.643. Murray (S) beat Rawson 6-3, 6-3. Canady-Natterfield (5) beat Stoan-Closd 6-3, 6-3. Jones-White (1D) beat
Cline-Murray 6-1, 6-2.

BASEBALL—The SPE team included Tipton, and Bruce Parcell. Baseball seemed to be a losing cause all season long, but finally
the jinx was broken and the diamond squad ended their season strong. Bill Quick, Shorty Bankhead, Ehelding Chirk, Herman Yearwood,
Doug Neal, Joe Kellan, Asbury Howard, Jim Dickson, and Teeny Lafferty will return for another season's play next year. According
to rumored plans, Coach Heath Whittle is trying to arrange a cross-country meet with Navy for the same weekend as
the Navy-Davidson football game. With Boo Walker and Dave Woodward to bolster the team, Coach Whittle’s optimistic over the outcome.

A FINISH—A START! To those who leave, this is the beginning of the end. You have done well, and we
wish you every success. To those who return, we cheer you and look forward expectantly. The slate is wiped clean!
It's a new season! Let's set a new record, but manage to take our losses in stride to go on
to bigger and better athletics in the Wildcat lair.

Carl Carlson To Be Captain
Carl Carlson was elected captain of next year's varsity tennis team and Howard Covington was chosen manager at a recent
meeting of the team. Lettermen who are expected back are B.S. Kenney, H.W. Frampton, and G.A. Hornbeck. Wilson Northcross, Perry
Sloan, and others from the present Freshman team are expected to make a strong bid for places on next year's
team. Carlyle Lewis, captain of this year’s team, has had only one defeat during the season. Last season he defeated
four of Virginia's leading players, including “Red” Romans, Southern Intercollegiate champion. He defeated a member of the Cuban Davis Cup
team at Georgia Tech and was defeated only once, by Ramsey Potts.

Yesterday afternoon, the ones just mentioned and the one between the Phi Delts and the Betas. Wednesday the SA's were
to meet the Pi Kappa Phis, while the KA's and PiKAs will meet tomorrow. The first of the semi-final games
will be played on Friday and perhaps the second, too. Otherwise, the second one will be held Monday. In either
case, the final game will come on the following playing day.

At present, the PiKAs stand far in the lead with 80 points. The victory is not assured for them, however.

FAUL AND CRYMES, INC.
SPORTING GOODS
CHARLOTTE, N.C.
415 SOUTH TRYON ST.

SPORTS AFIELD
Annual Athletic Day To Be Celebrated Friday, May 15

DAVIDSON FRESHMAN NINE WINS DECISIVE GAME FROM RIVALS
McCall Hits Two Homers in First Frame; Edwards Gets Three For Four
HICKS AGAIN STARS
Kittens Have Two More Games This Year

Davidson’s freshman baseball team increased its margin of won games to 4 out of 7 by defeating the Belmont High
team 13-0 here Friday afternoon, May 8. Hicks pitched so well that only two Belmont High players reached third base
during the afternoon.

The Kittens stepped at once into a substantial lead, a home run by McCall in his first time to bat,
with Hemphill on base, starting the action. In the second bat of the inning, McCall again poled out a homer,
though it brought in no one but himself. He got his two homers, one walk, and two outs in five
times at the plate. Charley Edwards got three hits in four trips to the batter's box, as did Hicks, one
of his blows being a triple. Swede Johnson got three hits in five attempts. As a total, the Wildkittens amassed
twenty hits, every man on the team accounting for at least one.

This barrage of blows served to force two pitchers from the Belmont pitcher's mound. Ferguson started the game but was
replaced by Outfielder Sharren in the second inning. Then in the seventh frame, Money was sent to the mound. For
the losers, Simpson played the best baseball, both as catcher and at bat. He got two hits in four trips
to the plate, one of them a triple. Throughout the game, he served as a steadying influence for some of
the less experienced men on his team.

A trip last week for the Kittens to Blue Ridge school and some other places in that section of the
state was called off due to an epidemic of diphtheria there. Two or three games are scheduled for the season,
and Manager Cokey Branton is hoping to complete as full a card as is possible.

Senior Class Captures Class Net Competition
Interclass tennis competition closed with the Seniors as winners, having three decisive victories under their belts. The Seniors crushed the
freshmen by 4-0. The Centennials defeated the sophomores 4-1. The freshmen and sophomores fought to a tie. The Seniors downed
the Juniors by a score of 4-2. The Seniors then took the sophomores to the tune of 4-2.

Intramural golf matches will be played this week. The freshmen met the sophomores and the Seniors met the Juniors, Tuesday,
May 12, but the results of this match were unknown at the time the paper went to press. The Seniors
and Sophomores will meet, and the Juniors and the Freshmen will meet, Wednesday, May 13.

COACH NEWTON PLANS FOR EARLY FOOTBALL
Coach “Doc” Newton announced on last Monday afternoon that forty-six players will be required to report for early football practice
on Monday, September 1. From this number, he plans to take a varsity team of approximately thirty men, and the
remainder will be given positions on the “B” or “All-American” team. The first game of the season will be played
at night with the Duke University Blue Devils in Greensboro on Saturday, September 19.

WORK ON STADIUM TO COMMENCE AT ONCE
New Improvements to Be Completed By Fall

There are to be changes in the arrangement of the track and the baseball diamond as a result of the
construction of the new stadium recently given by Messrs. Smith and Lamsford Richardson.

The present plans call for the building of a new baseball diamond on the Freshman Field and an enlargement and
improvement of the track. The new stands on Richardson Field are to be erected at a considerable distance from the
eastern side of the track. The track will be widened by moving it farther both behind the plate and to
the east, and also the width of the track proper is to be enlarged. Thus the new track will be
“fatter” and contain more lanes.

There are several plans proposed for altering the Freshman Field to suit the needs of a baseball diamond. The most
likely plan would include the cutting away of some of the road, the placing of home plate in the northwest
corner of the field, and the building up of left field with the earth taken from the road. All the
old field needs is an enlarging of left field which is now short. A fence will be built around the
Freshman Field and the bleachers will be used to accommodate the spectators. Any of the several plans now under consideration
will provide an excellent diamond which will be used as the main one. It is expected that the present diamond
will be left in condition and used as a practice field. This field is only impaired by the new stands
in as much as it shortens center field.

At the same time the size of the track is changed, its condition will be greatly improved. A good, solid
bed that will not wash with every shower is expected to make a decided difference in its quality. With the
increasing popularity of track, accommodations are to be provided for the holding of meets here that might be larger than
dual meets. The altered track will be exactly 880 yards long or one quarter of a mile. The new stadium
will be in its final form by the fall.

During Those Spare Moments Between Exams
Relax and Refresh Yourself at White Drug Store
Sodas, Stationery, Exam Pads

OUR SLOGAN = “EVERY JOB A GOOD ONE”
More than a slogan. It’s A Working Principle. Our Successful Efforts Extend from Calling Cards to Catalogs.
STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
117 Garland Court
Charlotte, N.C.

Jenkins Pitches Davidson to 7-5 Victory Over Carolina Team
STATE AVENGES DEFEAT
Wolfpack Wins Both Games of Series at Raleigh

The Wildcat baseball team bunched their hits Thursday afternoon to defeat the formidable Carolina nine, but then fell twice before
the determined efforts of an N.C. State team to get revenge for a brilliant 7-4 victory of the ‘Cats on
the local diamond. Teeny Lafferty led the Davidson team at the plate.

Davidson 7—Carolina 5
Jack Jenkins pitched masterful ball, holding the Tar Heel sluggers to six scattered hits, while Davidson, led at the plate
by Moyer and Chirk, got 10 hits off Webster for eight hits and seven runs. The fighting Wildcats pounded out
four hits for four runs in the third inning, finally ending the frame with another runner on third base. Rainey
of Carolina scored a home run in the fourth inning. This proved to be the Wildcat's second victory and the
two teams parted with each team having gained a victory.

Davidson 3—N.C. State 5
After playing fast, winning ball all through the game, the Wildcats weakened in the seventh inning, allowing three runs to
cross the plate. Judge Cathey began the game and was relieved by Stewart in the seventh inning. Teeny Lafferty and
Doug Neal cracked out a double and single and two singles, respectively, to lead the Davidson batters, while Mahoney and
Griffin were the heavy hitters for State.

Davidson 2—State 14
The only ray of light in an otherwise dark day for the Davidson nine was a two-run rally in the
eighth inning. The Wildcats connected for seven hits to twelve for State, but they were unable to come through in
the crucial moments with runners in scoring position. Teeny Lafferty clouted a two-bagger while Gadd and Farrar scored home runs
for N.C. State.

Batteries for Davidson were Jenkins, Stewart, Clark, and Kellam; for State were Weating, Mahoney, and Berlinsky.

There are 175,000 attorneys in the United States, 38,600 incubating in the law schools. Too many, say authorities. A New
Deal for agriculture is old stuff, says the Mississippi Valley Historical Association. There was one following the Civil War.

For Rent
GULF GAS AND OIL
M.P. Henderson
