CATS WALLOP FLYING SQUADRON

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

DAVIDSON FIFTH IN CONFERENCE

VOL. XXIV DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., OCTOBER 14, 1936 NO. 4

SANDBURG PRESENTS LECTURE ON POETRY

Varied Discussion Is Characterized By Brilliant Wit and Striking Expression; Speaker Reads Poems, Proverbs, and Folklore

Carl Sandburg, noted poet and biographer, mentioned everything but “Hyacinths and Biscuits,” his subject, in a lecture filled with scintillating wit and keenly pressed phrases, here, Monday evening. His audience filled to overflowing the Chambers Auditorium. After being introduced by Dr. E. F. Shewmake, Sandburg praised the freedom of speech and action in this country, but warned of the difficulty of distinguishing between the true and the untrue in the social and political currents of today. In preparing his biography of Lincoln, the author was impressed with the contrasted beliefs of the political commentators of the time, and especially with the great number of writers whose predictions of the future seem utterly absurd to the student of the post-war period. Great changes, he said, are going on in those “kettles of dynamite,” Germany, Italy, and Spain, and no one knows what will be the result. “A past not yet dead is struggling with a future not yet born.” Just so, he said, conflicting currents affect the surface of modern literature, and it is up to the reader to judge which is wisest with regard to the eventual outcome of some of the changes. For that reason, he said that he had stopped trying to “gimlet something through the ivory domes” of his opponents. Then the speaker read and interpreted some examples of his own poetry. The first selection was called “Father and Son,” full of advice from age to youth. This was followed by two humorous jingles. And then came one of the highlights of the evening, a poem filled with some of the unbelievable subjects of folklore. Among them were “pancakes so thin they had only one side,” “a railroad curve where the engineer in his cab could touch the caboose and spit right over it,” and others.

SENIOR BLAZERS WILL APPEAR IN NOVEMBER

Various Types to Be Shown to Class at Next Meeting

By the first of November there will appear on the campus a number of gentlemen in the new senior blazers. The senior committee, composed of Bill Higgins, John McClelland, and Tom Thurston, have been working with President Wade Boggs trying to select the better blazers to present to the class at a meeting to be held some time this week. In an interview, Chairman Bill Higgins stated that the committee had selected a number of blazers to show to the class and while they were selecting them they tried to keep in the moderate price field range and still get something different. Although the blazers have not been selected by the class they will probably be along the lines of a sport coat so that they may be used effectively after graduation.

PICTURES FOR THE 37 ANNUAL TAKEN DURING THIS WEEK

Photographers Arrive For Students’ Pictures in Quips and Cranks

ANNUAL TO BE LARGER

More Space Will Be Devoted to Informal Snapshots

Two photographers representing Dunbar and Daniels, in Raleigh, arrived on the campus early Monday morning to begin the portrait work for the 1937 edition of Quips and Cranks. John Abernethy, editor of the annual this year, announced that they would be here until Saturday and that this would be the only time that portraits would be made this year. The work is being done in the parlor of Watts Dormitory again this year, and the studio is open from 9:00 o'clock every morning until 12:30 in the afternoon, 1:15 till 6:00 in the afternoon, and from 7:00 to 9:00 o'clock at night. The proofs will be returned for inspection on Monday, October 26, and special orders for pictures will be taken when the photographers are here to take the group pictures of the fraternities and athletic teams early in November. Abernethy also said that the size of the yearbook would be increased and more space would be devoted to informal snapshots.

PALSY MEETING TO BE HELD THIS MONTH

Davidson College Will Be Host To Collegiate Association

Davidson College will be host to the North Carolina Collegiate Press Association which will hold its regular fall meeting at the Hotel Charlotte, in Charlotte, on Thursday, Friday, and Saturday, October 22, 23, and 24. The group, made up of the editors and business managers from the principal colleges in the state, expect to have Dr. Julian Miller, editor of The Charlotte Observer, address the meeting. Special features planned for the meeting include a luncheon to be served in the banquet hall in Chambers building Friday noon, October 23, and a formal banquet in the Hotel Charlotte Ballroom that evening which will be followed by a dance. James Terry, of Wake Forest, was elected president last spring and Mary Morris Macdonald, from Flora Macdonald, is the secretary-treasurer this year.

Davidsonian Sponsors Political Straw Vote

A straw vote on the forthcoming presidential election, to determine the strength of the presidential candidates among Davidson students, was held in chapel yesterday by The Davidsonian. Following the precedent set by the leading newspapers, magazines, and campus publications throughout the nation, The Davidsonian held this unprejudiced straw vote to determine the preferences of the college student. Results of this poll will be published in the next issue of this publication. Printed upon the ballots, which were distributed through the chapel seats, were the names of the candidates from the major parties in the coming election. They were: President Franklin D. Roosevelt, Democratic nominee; Governor Alf M. Landon, Republican nominee; Norman Thomas, nominee for the Socialist party; Earl Browder, the Communist party nominee; William Lemke, nominee for the Union party; and Leigh Colvin, nominee of the Prohibition party. Students were to vote for only one of the list of candidates. The Davidsonian is one of the few publications in this state invited by Princeton to hold such a poll among the students. The latter institution originated the idea of such a poll.

HOMECOMING CELEBRATION IS BEING PLANNED

Homecoming Event Will Feature Dedication of Richardson Stadium

ALUMNI PLAN MEETING

Pan-Hellenic Council Plans Set of Dances

With the date only a little more than three weeks off for a great and glorious Homecoming, plans are being pushed to completion by all groups on the campus. The Alumni office reports it is going to have one of the largest Alumni Luncheons ever staged and the best speaker ever secured. There will also be a special edition of the regular football program on November 7, the eventful day. Mr. Pfohl is doing things with his band for the interval between halves of the big game with North Carolina. On the morning of the Saturday the University band will also give a concert for the benefit of the visitors. The Pan-Hellenic Council will celebrate with a set of dances on Friday and Saturday nights. These dances will be the first big set to be given this year. This celebration will lend aid in the old fantastic trip of the student body to neighboring schools and towns as they celebrate with the grads. There is a promise of a large number of feminine visitors from the neighboring schools. The most beautiful young lady to be selected as the Homecoming Queen will be crowned, “with appropriate aid, in secret ceremonies.” The ladies are to be the leaders in the celebration of the Centennial as it opens on November 7. The band is planning a special maneuver as a means of presenting the sponsors to the crowd. At the game it is expected the administration will make formal dedicatory ceremonies for the new addition to Richardson Field in the form of the concrete stands on the East side of the field. Just what idea will be followed out is not certain. The college made known to the public last Saturday at the V. M. I. game its appreciation of the new stands on the East side of the field given this past summer by the Richardson brothers as the beginning of the Centennial building program. After the announcer read this statement over the sound system the student body of the college made very evident its appreciation of the generous donation by roaring its approbation at length. They fully realize the great improvement this new addition brings.

Campus Data Is Cosmopolitan

Statistics Reveal Interesting Facts About Students

Out of a total of 654 students at Davidson College this year, the majority have registered for the B.S. Course. There are 291 men taking this course. The other courses and their respective registrations are as follows: A.B. 1, 116; A.B. 2, 14; B.S. 2, 116; and B.S. 1, 291. North Carolina leads in the number of students with 371. It is followed by South Carolina which has 49; Georgia, 25; and Virginia, 25. Tennessee, still represented, has 14. There are seven foreign countries and islands also represented in the college. These are as follows: Belgian Congo, one; China, four; Korea, two; Mexico, two; Brazil, two; Jamaica, one; and Philippines, one. As to religious denominations, there are 425 who are Presbyterians, 100 Methodists, 42 Baptists, and 25 Episcopalians. Other denominations also have good representations.

SIXTEEN GIRLS ARE SPONSORS AT VMI DAVIDSON CONTEST

Beauties, Bands, Present Colorful Spectacle to Thrilled Crowd

GIRLS ON SIDELINES

Lenoir and Davidson Bands Present Feature

Under the direction of Fred Smith, the new alumni secretary, Davidson inaugurated an entirely new and very pleasing feature to its football games in the presentation of sixteen beautiful young ladies as sponsors for the Wildcats and also the Flying Squadron of V. M. I. Sponsoring the “Iron Men” of Davidson were: Miss Sue Batte, of Concord, Miss Alice Cowles Barringer of Charlotte, Miss Dosty Blackmon of Rock Hill, S. C., Misses Jennie Ann Efird, Jane Hashagen, Anne Little, Marie Neikirk and Betty Shull of Charlotte. The Cadets had the Misses Margaret Hackney, Elinor Killick, Hannah Knowlton, Elinor Matherson, Charlotte McAden, Earle Pegram, Peggy Sabine, and Lydia Stewart as their inspiration. At the close of the first half the sponsors for V. M. I. were conducted to the Davidson side and there the sixteen girls were presented to the West stands by Mr. Smith. They were then taken to the opposite side of the field and presented to the crowd in the East stands. After the presentation the two groups exchanged bouquets. For the first half each group had carried the colors of the opposing team on its bouquet, for the second half this exchange gave the V. M. I. girls the proper red, gold, and white of the Cadets and the Davidson girls the red and black of the Wildcats. The Davidson Band in full dress uniform of red and black formed on the field in the outline ofA cannon of the Civil War type and then the members of the Lenoir band in blue uniforms “shot” out of the cannon and further down the field they formed the letters V. M. I. The letters were reversed to face the visitors' stands and then the alma mater of V. M. I. was played. The Davidson band assisted the Wildcats by playing "O! Davidson." Tumultuous applause greeted the block formation by Lenoir at the conclusion of this unique drill. Both bands then took their places in the stands. The Davidson Band has been exceptionally versatile this season in offering novel features as a contribution to the entertainment of the football crowd. The Lenoir band, consisting of about 50 pieces, earned the admiration of the throng with its excellent performance that afternoon.

Freshmen Run In Shirt Tails
Large Pep Meeting Held on Eve of Game With V. M. I.

Davidson's largest and peppiest pep meeting was held Friday night in the gym. The freshmen filled the seats around the wall while the upper-classmen had the balcony well taken care of. Through the efforts of Varsity Cheer-Leader Gene Vogler, and with the cooperation of his staff, a series of acrobatic performances have been arranged to accompany the yells. This added a great deal to the color of the meeting and to the response of the students. More music was heard from the band and a few more yells were gone over before the main event came about, this being the well-known “Shirt Tail Parade.” The freshmen were lined up outside the gym and started off at a fast pace. They ran from one end of the campus to the other without a stop. When the upper-classmen finally decided they had run enough for one night, they were stopped in front of Chambers where the band played “O Davidson” amid the cheers of the whole student body.

COLORS RAISED BY ROTC UNIT EVERY DAY BEGAN OCTOBER 12
Jack Branch, Battalion Major To Have Charge of Flag Detail

“Old Glory” Honored in Daily Flag Ceremonies

Effective Monday, October 12, the morning flag will be raised and lowered at scheduled hours by members of the ROTC unit, according to a plan announced by Battalion Major Jack Branch. The plan calls for the flag to be raised by 7:55 o'clock every morning and to be lowered every evening. The responsibility for carrying out the plan rests with one company at a time. The ranking officer of the company will take it over at the end of a week, and another company commander will have the task. The flag detail will be composed of two officers, a sophomore, and a freshman selected by the senior officer. The detail will serve two days. Then a second detail from the same company will serve. The third detail of the week will serve three days. Members of the detail will be required to observe the flag ceremonies and courtesies in the Manual. All will be happy to know that they will be excused from drill during the period in which they serve on the detail. Remember that the uniform represents an institution and that you are members of that institution. Everyone should cooperate to make our unit one of the best that all can be proud of.

TWELVE BANDS TO BE GUESTS OF DAVIDSON
High School Groups Will Play At Citadel Game

The Department of Music has invited twelve high school bands from nearby North Carolina towns to be the guests of the college at the Davidson-Citadel football game on Saturday afternoon, October 24. The present plans call for a parade before the game, with all of these organizations taking part. During the game, these bands will be seated in the stadium unit on the east side of the playing field. Together with the Davidson football band, they will provide plenty of music for the spectators. Besides the parade before the game, there will also probably be some special features during the half with all the bands participating. On last Saturday, at the Davidson-V. M. I. game, the Lenoir high school band was invited to participate. They sat on the V. M. I. side of the field and aided the Davidson football band during the half in an unusual formation. This band is under the direction of Mr. James C. Harper, of the class of '15, and has won many state competitions in their class.

SENIOR GRADES
The class ranking of the seniors is as follows: F. A. Brown, 3.119; J. E. Branch, 3.108; R. S. Bigham, 3.107; J. G. Winn, 3.054; K. M. Scott, 3.029; R. H. Patterson, 3.029; J. G. Allen, 3.010; J. D. Allen, 3.005; C. B. Ross, 3.002; R. H. Lafferty, 2.964; W. H. Boggs, 2.934; J. H. Gailey, 2.906; D. Turner, 2.796; R. P. Horine, 2.750; W. C. Link, 2.659; R. H. Robinson, 2.618; H. G. Smith, 2.600; L. G. Vass, 2.600; H. Knorr, 2.548; A. S. Moffett, 2.536; H. H. Overton, 2.536; C. I. Carlson, 2.520; J. Y. Templeton, 2.520. (Continued on Page 2)

COL. RICHMOND WILL INSPECT ROTC UNIT
New Section Head of Civilian Component Affairs to Observe Drill and Classes Here; No Ceremony Planned For Occasion

Colonel H. R. Richmond, United States Cavalry, will arrive on the Davidson campus Wednesday afternoon to make an informal inspection of the Military Department and the Cadet Corps, according to a notice received from General Headquarters of the Fourth Corps Area in Atlanta, Ga. Col. Richmond has only recently become director of civilian component affairs in this section, and the visit is to become acquainted with the personnel in the various ROTC units. The inspector is coming to the Davidson campus after a similar visit to the military department at Wofford College, in Spartanburg, S.C. Present plans call for his going from here to Raleigh, where he will visit North Carolina State College. He will then journey to Knoxville, Tenn., and before Christmas, he will have inspected the military training units in all the high schools and colleges in nine southern states included in the Fourth Corps Area. It is expected that Col. Richmond will arrive about 5:00 o'clock Wednesday afternoon, but there is a slight possibility that his arrival would be early enough that he could inspect the cadet corps during the drill period which is at 3:00 o'clock. He will spend Thursday in the classrooms and meet a section of each of the four classes. No special military ceremonies have been planned for the occasion of his visit, for the battalion has not yet completed the instructional work necessary. Colonel John T. Rhett, the S. and T., and Mrs. Rhett, will give a dinner party in honor of the inspector on Wednesday, and he will probably leave late Thursday afternoon to go on to Raleigh.

ATLANTA PASTOR WILL ADDRESS “Y” SERVICES
Rev. Elliott to Speak to Davidson Student Body

CHUBBY KING'S ORCHESTRA Furnishes Supper Rhythm Five Nights a Week

Chubby King and his orchestra began their engagement at the Ken Davidson Hotel Wednesday night, October 7. Chubby, who is known for his accomplishments on the violin and saxophone, is a capable leader. With wide experience, having played this summer with Ike Jimmy Talbert and his Southern Californians at Charleston, S.C., and later with Zeb Hadley. He organized his band three years ago, when he was a freshman. This year there are ten members, including students from all four classes. Orchestra is a better term than band for the organization this time as one violinist has already been added to the personnel, and more may be allowed to join later. The boys perform now during the evening meal at the hotel, from 6:30 to 7:00 o'clock, five nights a week.

Pan-Hellenic Sponsors Initial Dance of Season
Joe Burke’s Dukes Furnish Rhythm For First Frolic

Between 200 and 250 Davidson students attended the dance, most of these having bought the tickets in advance. In response, the Pan-Hellenic Council held the first dance of the season on Friday night, October 9. Joe Burke’s Dukes, a combination of Guy Lombardo and the Hotel Ambassador, furnished the music. Ken Armfield, president of the Pan-Hellenic Council, revealed that the next set of dances would be held on November 6 and 7, the week-end of Homecoming. In the words of Ken Knorr, Pan-Hellenic treasurer, this will indeed be a “gala affair.” The Charlotte Armory will be the scene of action and plans are being made to secure the services of Jimmy Poyner’s band, one of the most famous in the South.