THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 25, 1936

HAPPY SPRING

Vacation Over; Disillusioned Scholars Will Return to Routine

RECESS IS DISASTROUS

Over-Cuts and Wrecked Grades Usually Result

"It's a long lane that doesn't have a hot dog stand," was the motto followed by those who invented the
spring vacation. It is a long semester that doesn’t have a vacation, but a short period of indulgence only in
the worldly pleasures found off our campus serves to increase our restlessness and impatience. The accentuation of our plight by
recess of a brief four days is comparable to the feeling a prisoner would have if released from Alcatraz and
then, almost before he had realized he was free, was seized again and reincarcerated. The simile does not hold entirely,
however, for the prisoner in question would have that magnificent feeling of liberty which is denied those who realize that
they must return after that short period. It is this magnification of our present agony by a glimpse of home
pleasures that undoubtedly is the cause for the large emigration of freshmen about this time. This is a good thing,
however, as those who cannot take it are weeded out, and only the freshmen blessed with unusual intestinal fortitude remain
within our precincts. Webster must never have attended an institution of higher learning to have labored under the false impression
that a vacation was a period of rest and leisure. Or maybe it was in his day that existed the
originators of this custom of suspending activities for a couple of days in the middle of the second term. A
freshman, perhaps, might be led to believe that he is going home for a rest and period of glorified loafing,
but he is soon disillusioned. He finds, upon arriving home, that he has forgotten when he is due back at
school, much to the worry of his parents. Upon finding out that he is due back in two or three
days, he decides to cram as much rest and amusement into that time as possible. At the end of the
time, our young friend finds that he has had neither rest nor leisure nor amusement, nor has he enjoyed his
parents’ company.

HOLIDAYS

Mid-Semester Grades To Be Released Soon

EXPECTED BY STUDENTS

The mid-semester grades of students during the recent vacation which began on the 14th of March are expected to be
released either today or tomorrow. Many of the professors were late in turning in the marks because of sickness, but
Mr. Hengeveld stated that he had completed his grading.

LAIRD TO HEAD Junior Baseball Club This Summer in Charlotte

Ken Laird was unanimously elected Saturday to be the coach of the Hornets Nest Post Number One, American Legion, to
coach the Charlotte entry in the Junior Legion Baseball race. The election took place at a meeting of the athletic
committee at the Charlotte Fire Department. Coach Laird was present and after he had expressed himself as being delighted to
take the job, the committee selected him.

EUMENEAN FEATURES Debate and Address

TWO DEBATORS LEAVE ON TRIP

Jimmy Salango and Bob Stewart left Monday for the northern debating tour. They will meet Swarthmore College, Swarthmore, Pa.; University
of Maryland, College Park, Md.; and University of Richmond, Richmond, Va. It is necessary for the team to debate both
the affirmative and the negative side of the Supreme Court question. The debating teams of University of Maryland and Westminster
College will visit the Davidson campus in April if arrangements can be made.

BETA THETA PI

In the recent chapter elections, the following were elected for the coming year: President, John Winn; Vice President, Wilbur Edwards;
Treasurer, Dick Cathey; and Secretary, Bob Johnson. Bob Johnson was elected as the Pan-Hellenic representative.

VAN LOON FAVORS PLAN

Farrand Also in Favor of “Exchange of Courtesies”

Undergraduate protest and adverse criticism of the plan to exchange courtesies with Heidelberg University have been expressed. Distinguished alumnus Hendrik
Willem Van Loon expressed a different opinion. Farrand also favored the plan, stating that he did not regard an “exchange
of courtesies” between the two institutions as involving an expression of judgment on their policies in government or education.

KAPPA ALPHA

Brother Tom Downie returned from a week's stay in Florida. Brothers Bob Abell and Banks Gladen spent the weekend in
Chester, S.C. Charlie Mause went to Spartanburg, S.C. Officers for the coming year are President, John Anderson; Vice President, Wilbur
Edwards; Treasurer, Dick Cathey; and Secretary, Bob Johnson. The chapter is planning on throwing a big party.

EDUCATIONAL MEETING Attended By Leaders

Professor Heagle of the English department and Professor Bailey of the Greek department attended the meeting of the North Carolina
Educational Association at the Hugh Morson High School. The assemblies were very well attended. Membership is limited to white persons
engaged in kindergarten through college education.|his first year as Wildcat mentor| Raleigh on March 19, 20, and 21 when he
made a debate with the University of Maryland. Two thousand teachers from the high schools and colleges over the state
were present. The debate will be broadcasted over station WBT at the Davidson Theatre. Coach Laird succeeds George Sherrill and
will be assisted by Joe Crowell. Laird piloted Davidson to the Big Five championship, brushing aside strong opposition.

A debate with Westminster College is scheduled for February. This northern trip will culminate a series of three trips that
have been made by the Davidson debaters this year. These trips have covered southern, western, and northern states. According to
the stories told by those who have already made the first two trips, Davidson debaters have basked under the celestial
rays of Florida sunshine and shivered in the snows of mountainous West Virginia so that the Wildcat argumentative forces would
carry on to victory. The team this year is composed of Wade Boggs, Wilber Edwards, Tyler Port, Stewart, and Harold
Sugg. Several debates are scheduled to be held in the near future. Members of the regular debating team will represent
Davidson College. These debates will be held in the Eumenean Literary Society Hall.

Meanwhile, Harvard authorities were trying to think their way through a pretty quandary. Consistency called for refusal of the bid
and scholarship offered by Ernst Hanfstaengl, Hitler aide, which were twice refused. However, Harvard has invited Heidelberg to send representatives
to its 300th anniversary celebration, and doesn’t dare to risk offending the rest of mankind.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon—Kenfield and Mick Johnson spent the weekend in Anderson, S.C., with his mother. Jim Hill, sophomore, was pledged
recently. Joe Kellum spent the weekend in Rock Hill, S.C. Tonight the brothers are having their regular spring party. A
large number of girls from the Queen City are expected to aid in the celebration of the beginning of the
annual spring holidays.

Davidson’s stop light makes it appear much like a city. Hundreds of towns in the surrounding country do not have
this traffic regulator. The trouble with the light is that there is seldom any traffic to regulate. It is either
all red once and then all green.

Cars For Rent
GULF GAS AND OIL
M. P. Henderson

Luckies are less acid
Puff Less Acid
Copyright 1936, The American Tobacco Company

Excess of Acidity of Other Popular Brands Over Lucky Strike Cigarettes

BALANCE
LUCKY STRIKE
BRAND A
BRAND B
BRAND C

"IT’S TOASTED" - Your throat protection against irritation and against cough where the finest Turkish tobacco is grown. OF RICH,
RIPE-BODIED TOBACCO — "IT’S TOASTED"

SCIENTIFIC BLENDING
The blending of tobaccos to secure a given taste—uniformly, season after season and year after year—is both an art and
a science. Every fresh blending of Lucky Strike tobacco contains more than 100 different types produced on thousands of different
farms—not only in Virginia, North and South Carolina, Georgia, Tennessee, Kentucky, Maryland and other States, but tobacco-lands in Macedonia and
Xanthia in Greece, Smyrna and Samsoun in Turkey—

LUCKIES ARE LESS ACID! Recent chemical tests show* that other popular brands have an excess of acidity over Lucky Strike
of from 53% to 100%.

*RESULTS VERIFIED BY INDEPENDENT CHEMICAL LABORATORIES AND RESEARCH GROUPS.

"IT’S TOASTED" - Your throat protection against irritation
