6 THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 18, 1936

German Gun Lies Rusting On East of Drill
Old and Battered Cannon Rests From Labor on Grassy Slope

GUN FIGURED IN PRANK
Muzzle of Cannon Was Torn By Explosion

Grave Blackwelder, Davidson mat captain, won out in the 158 class with no points scored against him. He pinned Ellis,
Davidson frosh captain, in two matches. Ellis pinned Smith of Charlotte. Blackwelder, A. A. U. champ, will go to Bethlehem
to the Olympic finals. There were only two contestants in the 174-pound class. Hodgin, Davidson, pinned Milton, a teammate, in
two matches. He had no points scored against him. There were no entries in the 191-pound class.

Benton and Lee wrestled an exhibition match Saturday night against Logan of Kannapolis and pinned him. Benton will go to
the Olympic finals to be held April 14, 15, 16, at Bethlehem. The tournament was featured by close matches between
Spencer and Eaton on Friday and Saturday nights and two close matches between Graves and Gholson on the same two
nights.

Many a man seeks a girl for her face value.

DANCES ARE GIVEN AMONG THE GREEKS
(Continued from Page 3)

Present for the dances were Duke P. D. Guerra, D. B. All, and Carleton Chapman. They attended the dances at
Brenau.

SIGMA PHI EPSILON—Officers for the coming year were elected and are as follows: President, Jim Morton; Vice-President, Daymond Cox; Secretary,
Jett Moore; Guard, Walker Harper; Senior Marshall, George Walker; Marshall, Jack Hile; Historian, Dick Bowie.

SPORTS STACCATO
(Continued from Page 4)

Will be held Friday and should be completed Monday. Captain Leroy Blackwelder and Jim Hodgin will represent Davidson at Lehigh
University in the competition for the Olympics representatives. Coach Laird served as a commentator for “The Charlotte News” during the
past basketball season.

Milton Winston-Salem, Marnelle Rainey, Salisbury

PI KAPPA PHI: Dotsy Slack, M. K. Rhodes, Rock Hill, S. C.; Peggy Jones, Mary Elizabeth Moore, Annie McLendon, Reeve,
Wilmington; Wiltre Sel Green, Wrythe, B. C.

PHI DELTA THETA: Virginia Het Meck, Madeline Hurt, Mary Whitmore, Charlotte; Quinn, R. C.; Sy Gadsden, Ala.; Pat McMontgomery, Ala.;
Pat McSign.

WEST TRADE STREET
All Latest Phonograph Records
PARKER-GARDNER CO.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

LITERARY SOCIETIES MEET
PHILANTHROPIC
(Continued from Page 3)

Recently started a literary questionnaire which is of great interest to the members. At each meeting, three questions of literary
value are asked and at the next meeting each man submits the answer to as many of these as he
has been successful enough to find. This will be continued till the end of school and the man who has
submitted the largest number of correct answers will receive a prize. The next program will be featured by talks from
three of the eight new men who were taken into the society last week.

EUMENEAN
(Continued from Page 3)

White spoke on “Intellectual Curiosity.” From the old minutes and expense accounts of the Eumenean Society, Mawhinney gleaned the contents
of his talk in speaking of the rules which prevailed during those days of the society. The fact that fines
were incurred by the members for unbecoming positions and speaking out of order and that the society used to hold
weekly debates was elaborated upon by Mawhinney. White, in discussing the subject, spoke of the “seeming lack of intellectual curiosity
on the Davidson campus” and endeavored to explain this lack upon the assumption that the students did not have time
to devote to the pursuance of knowledge other than that which was required of them. He illustrated his point with
the life of Dr. Alexis Carrel, head of the Rockefeller Institute of Research.

The following men were initiated last night: O. V. Armstrong, J. P. Bailey, Charlie Brown, Bill Galvin, T. N. Glatky,
J. H. Hill, Reaves Lawson, P. Lincoln, N. H. McGeachy, Kenneth McLean, T. W. Mullen, J. L. Ranson, W. S.
Robinson, S. Ryburn, F. M. Sinclair, T. W. Street, R. E. Vowles, T. E. Walker, and S. C. Webb.

FOR STUFFY HEAD
A few drops up each nostril reduces swollen membranes, clears away clogging mucus, brings welcome relief.
VICKS VA-TRO-NOL
30¢ double quantity 50¢

MASQUERS TO PRESENT PLAY
(Continued from Page 1)

...and stuffed shirt, a young man, ambitious, but his “position” by Mokey Faison. The footman, the imperturbable Phipps, who has
an inherent love for the pageantry of the court, is played by Bill Marquis. The play is directed by Bill
Higgins and John...Allen. Professor Er Woodward is stage manager Robert Emmett Sherwood, the treatment of history and in his political
satire. Yet he is true to the tradition of Belasco. Mr. Sherwood has been married, first to a niece of
I Wit. This success has been followed by "in Vienna," and more recently by "The Petrified Forest."

NED IVERSON IS CHOSEN
(Continued from Page 4)

furnish valuable material for the Varsity next year. The freshmen have compared very favorably with the varsity throughout the year.
The Kittens, in their practice games with the varsity, averaged only a few points below the Cats. This season, Coach
Chapman has discovered one or two players who will probably see regular service next year. Several other prospects from this
year’s smooth working quint, with a little seasoning, ought to see service next year. Dr. Fellman, Bancroft Mosely, is a
tall, handsome, theoretical, professional revolutionist, set off against the violent, hot-headed firebrand, Laker, played with perfect poise. Win is faculty
adviser, and Harmon author, has been called the American Bernard Shaw, in his playful oth Tarkington, and second to the
divorced wife of Marc Connerly. He gained fame and fortune through his early work, "Road to Rome," "The Queen’s Husband,"
"Reunion."

ORGANIST WILL CLOSE
(Continued from Page 1)

the summer of 1933. The organist broadcast a series of bi-weekly organ recitals over an Elkhart, Indiana, station. Upon the
conclusion of these recitals, he was requested to play a public recital in the First Presbyterian Church of the same
city. For the past three years, Mr. McDonald has held the position of organist and choirmaster in the First Methodist
Episcopal Church of Ypsilanti, Michigan. At this church, the organist plays a three-manual Lewis and Hitchcock Organ of 49 stops.
During two of these years, the musician presented a series of Sunday afternoon vesper recitals in the church. Mr. McDonald
has given two recitals on the famous four-manual Skinner Organ in Hill Auditorium, Ann Arbor, Michigan. He also accompanies the
First Methodist Episcopal Church’s Choir as organist on their concert trips to Detroit and other cities in Michigan. In addition
to holding the church position, Mr. McDonald is at present teaching Theory of Music in the University of Michigan School
of Music. That he is well received by his audiences is evidenced in the following clipping from the University of
Michigan newspaper:

"Phane ild’s was another uct luation recital. For those who enjoy music, this program was a decided pleasure, for Mr.
McDonald’s performance was finished in every detail. He has a professional manner in his playing; that is, he takes his
time, giving emphasis to his work by unhurried treatment. The organ department has a star representative graduate in Mr. McDonald."

This concert will be free to all those possessing the season ticket. It will be complementary to all the members
of the North Carolina Chapter of the American Guild of Concert Organists, which is planning to hold its annual meeting
on the Davidson campus on the same day, April 17. The amount for single tickets will be announced later.

The freshmen had an unusual record for the past season and will furnish valuable material for the Varsity next year.

GULF GAS AND OIL
M. P. Henderson

WARNER BROS. ROADWAY:
Opening with a GALA SUN. MIDNIGHT SHOW—12:01 A. M.
Premier Showing
12 GREAT STARS IN THE BIGGEST DANCING ROMANCE EVER!
Broadway with DICK POWELL, RUBY KEELER, JACK OAKIE, JOAN BLONDELL
100’s of Hollywood's Beautiful Girls, Girls, Girls & Girls
Nothing gigantic Wednesday not even co "SOAK THE RICH"
(Charlotte’s "ave deh shows at'. Ahan late AGES Show-Value production of fun and satire with Walter Connolly)
Matinee 15¢ Night 20¢
Thursday Thru Saturday
Chapter 1 Clarence E. Mulford’s TAILSPIN
Hopalong Cassidy in "The Great Air Mystery"
TOMMY in "Call of the Prairie"

Next Week
Monday & Tuesday
"It's A Great Life" with Paul Kelly, Rosalind Keith
Charlotte, N.C.

KOSTELANETZ ORCHESTRA AND CHORUS
9 P.M. (C.S.T.) COLUMBIA NETWORK

I don't know Miss Hepplewhite but I venture to say that by 1937 all the girls will be smoking them.
They're mild, you see.
© 1936, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.
