Triumph.... though no official invitation has been issued or accepted. Davidson was last week elected to membership in the Southern Interscholastic Conference. A triumph which took several years of petitioning and requesting to be realized, but one that was well worth the importunate efforts of Davidson athletic officials, despite the extreme confinement embodied in the “Graham Plan,” recently adopted by the Conference. Davidson, as a member of the Southern Conference, will be afforded a portion of well-deserved publicity in the athletic world, that she formerly didn't have. Her many brilliant, but unheralded, athletes will begin to be more widely recognized, and the college will be more attractive to students aspiring to athletic competition. Membership in this association should stimulate interest within the college itself. There will be two very imposing championship titles for which every team can work, if Davidson accepts its bid to the Conference. This should create more spirited and enthusiastic support of the various athletic organizations by the Davidson students. It is needless to mention the record of Davidson teams which have competed with Southern Conference schools in the past. It is quite generally known that this record is very imposing.

The Davidsonian
Founded By the Class of 1915
1935 Member 1936
Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate year.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1879.

ARTICLES FOR PUBLICATION must be in the hands of Managing Editors by 2:00 o'clock p.m. Monday. Letters to the Editor are welcome, but all communications intended for publication must be signed.

LAMONT BROWN
R. P. MORROW, Jr. ------.---Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
Jim Morton. -- _-Managing Editor
Howitt Overton Managing Editor
Taylor Sugg. ---Managing Editor
Daymond Turner. ---Managing Editor
John Winn. ---Managing Editor
Harry Kuykendall -Sports Editor
Martin Barnett ...Associate Editor
Harvey Gross ---Associate Editor
Paul Harlan ---Associate Editor
Tom Marchant... ---Associate Editor
John Walker ---Associate Editor

In order to give a representative idea of how opinion is running on the campus with regard to Davidson's entrance into the Conference, the following statements have been secured:

The first is by Dr. Walter L. Lingle, an alumnus of Davidson and now President of the College. “Of course we are greatly pleased by the fact that Davidson was elected to membership in the Southern Conference. No official notice of our election has yet been received and therefore I do not know what conditions if any are attached. I note in the newspaper that a copy of the ‘Graham Plan’ will be attached to each invitation. I heartily agree with the Graham Plan in principle. There may be a few details that I would modify. As a matter of fact Davidson has been practicing almost everything embodied in the Graham Plan now for these many years. I have no doubt that Davidson will accept this invitation to membership in the Conference. Membership carries with it some very distinct advantages.”

The second statement is by Professor F. L. White, who is also a graduate of Davidson and is now graduate manager of athletics at the College. “We are glad that the Southern Conference has invited Davidson to become a member of that important organization, and we shall, I am sure, accept the bid. We appreciate the interest of our friends and their efforts to get Davidson into the Conference. We have always played some five or six Conference teams in football, as well as competing with them in other intercollegiate sports. But membership in the Southern Conference will give us some advantages that we do not now have. As a member of this body we shall be eligible to enter the Conference meets in the various sports, such as basketball, track, wrestling, tennis, etc. Our teams will receive, perhaps, a little more publicity and greater recognition in the world of sports.”

Henry Cathey, President of the Athletic Association, Co-Captain of football in '35 and a member of the Davidson College Senior Class makes the third and final statement. “For a number of years Davidson College has sought admission into the ranks of schools holding membership in the Southern Conference. Naturally Davidson officials believe that by being numbered among these schools the college would gain a boost in prestige and standing. King Victor Emmanuel III of Italy recently very wisely conjectured, ‘I have nothing to lose and everything to gain from the outcome of my country's struggle with Ethiopia. If we win I will be King of Ethiopia, if we lose I will be King of Italy.’ It has been suggested that the name of the ‘Graham Plan’ be changed to the ‘Dam Plan,’ because it cuts off the flow of every possible means of income to athletes at all Southern Conference Colleges. According to the strictest interpretation of the newly adopted system it makes an athlete ineligible who borrows money with which to pay his college expenses.”

Unclaimed Davidson Gentleman. Those who “boo,” or whistle sarcastically, at referee's decisions on the basketball court, and those who allow alarm clocks to sound in the auditorium while a visitor is addressing the student body.

At its recent meeting the Conference voted to extend an invitation to Davidson, along with two others, to become members of the Conference. Now the query has arisen, should Davidson join? This query has been brought about by the greatly publicized Graham Plan. The purpose of the Graham Plan was to destroy the practice of paying athletes on the sole basis of their athletic ability. This purpose is certainly highly commendable, but I do believe that the plan has gone to the extreme in ruling what alumni aid shall be forbidden and that the athlete shall be given no preference over the non-athlete in the awarding of jobs about the college campus. Would Davidson suffer by going into the Conference under the present rulings? She would to a certain degree, but not to the extent that the school should reject its bid. In the past a few students have been aided in getting an education by loans from the alumni, but not a large number. Certainly no athlete here receives aid from the college itself.

THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 12, 1936

DAVIDSON OFF THE By DAYMOND TURNER

Expensive ... A cigarette fiend at Loyola University delved into higher mathematics the other day to find how much it cost him to smoke. He made the startling discovery that he could enjoy forty-five more dates a year if he would abstain from smoking. According to this statistician, the average student on the Loyola campus smokes about 10 packages a week (his own or his friends) which amounts to about 520 packs a year. A cost of $93.00. Now figure out how much all his dates cost him.

HAROLD SUGG

Domestic ... The Villanovan reports that sixty co-eds at Iowa State University were stricken ill after sampling some of their own concoctions in a home economics class. Anyone who would print such a statement during leap year just can't have a heart.

LITTLE WIT AND NO MATTER

Gradually but with a bit of finality, the character of college life has been altered. The Depression, tighter purse strings and inevitable reaction have given the College Boy (no longer Callowich Boy) a seriousness he did not previously possess. Look backwards and you will remember characters whose counterparts are not new in college. The tone of college is different: there is a strain of melancholy, and Mood allegretto has displaced Mood allegro. Everybody is studying, and everybody is scared.

YEA, BROTHER

We sympathize with last week's editorial writer who is not an adept player of that thrilling but fruitless game of getting to the Book Store when it is open. Breathes there a man at Davidson who has not had that frustrating experience? There ought to be four secretaries in charge of the Book Store. Then they could all play bridge and the dummy could wait on those meek and righteously timid students who have classes and writs before the next time interval.

CHIGOES IN LIFE’S FOREST

Borrowing our sub-head from one of our professor’s chapel talks, we present, for further classification of Pestiferous Personages, those intriguing individuals that make College Life so piquant. Number seven PP is The Popular Song Hound, who knows the first line of every published song within two weeks. Never, however, has the Popular Song Hound been known to know the second line of any song. He serves his economic purpose, for after hearing the first line so many times, youFinally go mad and buy a song sheet. There is one on every table. Kumbee clever! Pestiferous Personage is admittedly known as The. By ARNOLD SERWER (Associated Collegiate Press Correspondent) Washington, D.C.—Study of the Door Aristocrat. When you hold the door open for him, he walks through and leaves you holding the door. The Door Aristocrat is very polite. He says, “Thank You” as he saunters past.

Among that variegated collection of assorted oddity known as the Freshman Class, there is a peculiarly notorious group of PPs, individually known as The Happy-Hooligan. This PP wears his fresh cap somewhat in the manner of a tomato can with the open top protruding upward. Happy Hooligan would save wear on his cap and achieve the same results if he wore a bell or just brayed when he met an upperclassman. There is another class of frosh who, in the yuletide spirit of the holidays, have forgotten the necessity of cap-wearing. Paging Mr. Purnell!

DREAMS AFTER THE BALL

We didn’t realize fully what a great weekend was Mid-Winters until we heard Freddy Martin from the Atagon this weekend. And after hearing the low tenor sax harmonies of Freddy Martin, the following orchestra cake would taste, or like a saxophonist biting a too ripe banana. His schedule over WGI is approximately this: From Tuesday through Saturday, 11:30. Saturday also at 9:30 and on Sunday at 6:15 and 11:15.

THE WEARY END

We are waiting for the first news of spring from one Johnny “Birds Eye View” Watkins. The only trouble is that this snowy weather has Johnny so confused. Peregrinations to P.C.: Bailey Williams, Iago Nich, Bobby Peters, Jim Knox, Bobby Arrowsmith, and Holbert Wilson. Stay on the right side of the road, brothers.

Somebody said that a no-break and a girl-break dance were the same things. Greensboro No-Breaks: Tom Marchant, Jim Batte, Major Clarke, Mac Davis, and Sky Cline. And Flin-du (one-two, one-two) was back again. We don't know why, we hate to do it, but somebody asked that we mention Henry “Scum of the Earth” Mills. Tom Croucho Corbin writes his “You're Welcome” letter before the “Thank You” arrives. Teeny Lafferty fights the King Snake at Concord. Why is St. Francis the patron saint of Davidson Men? Some day I'm going to write this stuff in reverse order to foil that host of simple-minded mud grubbers who only read the last paragraph.

The word cohesion serves to recall the fact that this is a quality sadly lacking among the local Young Democrats. Starting as one large group of zealous young politicians several years ago, under the name of the District of Columbia “Young” Democratic Club, this body has spent the past year striving to move in all directions at once. Most of the disputes arose over local organization elections, but later on, no one seemed to remember very well what the original causes of controversy were. However, that may be, the controversies increased, and soon the parent body was developing rebellious offshoots which presently broke away as independent bodies. Meetings became turbulent, with dissenters continually arising and throwing wrenches into the machinery in the way of claims of by-laws allegedly violated. According to the latest reckonings, there are now four or five groups of Young Democrats here, each group claiming that it alone has been appointed to advance the cause of Democracy. From first to last, the local effort suffered from a surfeit of very young office-holding lawyers and crack parliamentarians who bogged the whole thing down by throwing technical obstructions into the path of the steering group by objecting themselves blue in the face to every step taken, and to a steering group whose idea of inspiring leadership was the constant repeating of empty catchwords about the New Deal and loyalty to this, that, and the other. Probably not one member in ten had any good notion of the implications of the New Deal and the details of the administration program. And without information about their own program, they're failing to make converts for their side. Far greater solidarity exists among the Young Republicans, for all their disputes over favorite sons and liberalism versus conservatism, than is found among the Young Democrats in Washington.

“Yes, mother.” “Well, you'll have to stop going out with those girls.”

Also Speaking...

College bred: A four-year loaf with plenty of crust made out of Dad's dough. Add similes: as lousy as the love scene of a Saturday movie. —Old Gold and Black.

THIS COLLEGIATE WORLD (By Associated Collegiate Press)

Quite unaccountably, we find ourselves with a sudden rush to the head of stories about absent-minded college professors. We do not recall where the stories originated, nor whom they concerned, but our remembrance of all of them suggests that there is a basis of truth for each one.

We know, for example, of the professor in a small-town college who traveled 50 miles away to another campus to observe a basketball game. As the game broke up, a man from his hometown offered the professor a ride home. He accepted with gratitude. No sooner did he set his foot on his front porch than he realized he had driven his own car to the other city. Since he had to teach the next morning, he sent his wife on the train to get his car and drive it home. So he stopped in at the depot and bought his wife a round trip ticket!

We recall the story of another man, a German professor, who was sitting in a railway depot with his wife, waiting...

(Continued on Page 6)

Compare the NEWS From Davidsonians of Years Gone By

1931

Dr. H. Wertenbaker, professor of history at Princeton, speaks to the students and faculty on "Our Democracy and its Future." The Freshman class, following the advice of campus leaders, votes not to elect a president until late in March. Henry I. Seibert, organist at the New York Town Hall, will give a concert here on Feb. 10. Dr. W. L. Frazier, president of Queens-Chicora College, leads “Y” vesper service. “Cats” will play State and Carolina this week to decide Big Five standings. Davidson and State are tied in the lead now. Sigma Alpha Epsilon wins fraternity basketball tournament. Debating try-outs are held, and the following men are selected to make up the varsity team: J. A. Jones, W. Rule, P. S. Knox, J. C. Matthers, R. D. Powell, and G. P. Pardington.

1926

Guilford defeated as Wildcats open a fast attack in the first period. Dr. Dunbar H. Ogden of Mobile, Ala. chosen to conduct Y.M.C.A. revival services. Junior Speaking will be held April 14-15. The program is announced. The baseball schedule is announced, and it includes a game with Dartmouth, to be played in March. The Faculty rejects a student motion to lower the passing grade from 75 to 70. The motion was made because the passing grade had been raised from 60 to 75, and the students thought that a jump of 15 points was unfair. 71 men report for spring football. The Hon. J. Stitt Wilson, former Mayor of Berkeley, Calif., delivers five lectures at Davidson on the Technique of Spiritual Life.

1921

The North Carolina Intercollegiate Press Association holds its meeting at Chapel Hill. Eleven colleges were represented. Many men respond to the first call for track candidates. The basketball team was defeated by Virginia, Elk’s Club, and Washington and Lee. Davidson College Magazine is to come out soon. F. V. Long and C. K. Brown will speak at vespers this Sunday.

1916

Annual will be completed soon. Neal, Patton, Smith, and Thames will compose Davidson's debating team this year. Frosh tie Seniors and Sophs to win class football tournament. Statesville defeats the basketball team, 39-33.