THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 4, 1936

The Davidsonian
By the Class of 1915
Founded 1935
Member 1936
Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate year.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879.

ARTICLES FOR PUBLICATION must be in the hands of Managing Editors by 4:00 o'clock p.m., Monday. Letters to the Editor
are welcome, but all communications intended for publication must be signed.

EDITORIAL STAFF
Jist Morton - Managing Editor
Howard Overton - Managing Editor
Harold St. Co. - Managing Editor
Raymond Turner - Managing Editor
John Wikk - Managing Editor
Larry Kuykendall - Sports Editor
Martin Barnett - Associate Editor
Harvey Gass - Associate Editor
Paul Flanagan - Associate Editor
Tom Marema - Associate Editor
John Walker - Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
Charles Mauze - Circulation Manager
Britt Sworr - Circulation Manager
Bob Wanner - Circulation Manager
Hoke Robinson - Advertising Manager
Ben Hill - Collection Manager
Bill Dyertel - Assistant Business Manager

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 4, 1936

Every word of God is pure: He is a shield unto them that put their trust in Him. Prov. 30:5.

Sincerest Sympathy is extended to Sid Marsh in the recent death of his father.

Paragraphics....

Students of the University of North Carolina have very forcefully expressed a desire for Dr. Frank P. Graham, whom the
alumni of that institution are making strenuous efforts to oust from the presidency, to remain as head of the state
university. The students at Davidson would like very much to see “Doc” Unger remain here, but—

To what extent is Professor Rathbun of the Stanford University Law School truthful when he says, “A lecture is the
process by which the notes of the professor become the notes of the student, without passing through the minds of
either?”

Gentlemen....

Davidson has for a long time been proud of her traditions, and particularly for that democratic spirit which has pervaded
the campus since long before any member of the present student body can remember. One of the most outstanding manifestations
of this friendly atmosphere is the way in which every Davidson man greets every other of his college mates when
they meet, no matter where. The informal “gentleman” has become a veritable password with Davidson men. It generally takes new
students only a very short while to form the habit of using this time-honored greeting as they would an article
of clothing. The present freshman class, however, has erred in its unsolicited mission of acquiring this useful and friendly habit.
Perhaps they are steeped in profound thought which keeps their minds above those of us upperclassmen, but the registrar's records
would seem to indicate exactly the opposite. Freshmen, you are being accused of having your heads in the clouds. The
upperclassmen are wondering why you can’t speak when they meet you on the campus or elsewhere. You aren’t all guilty,
but a large number of you do appear to have either a “holier than thou” attitude or you are afraid
to speak to your fellow students. You should be afraid not to speak, as much as you fear an upperclassman
seeing you when you are not wearing your little red cap. Start speaking and get to be a part of
Davidson in every sense of the word.

Elections....

Student body elections have once again begun on the Davidson campus, and as usual, bull-sessions are filled with the same
old chatter about who is the best man, how do you think the various ballotings will come out, and the
many other relative subjects that are naturally discussed at this time of year. Davidson has been indeed fortunate in its
selection of student leaders in the past, but it has been very unfortunate in allowing the yearly elections to create
unwarranted animosities, which almost inevitably accrue. Criticism rings about the campus that certain fraternities formed a clique and supported one
another's men for various offices. The age-old question of the non-fraternity men opposing the Greek-letter groups arises, and despite the
inevitable dying down of a good part of this ill feeling, it seems absolutely absurd that so much of it
should come about. It is perfectly natural for a man to feel a little down-hearted when he is defeated in
an election, but in a majority of cases you will find that the losers are usually the ones who have
the least amount of derogatory comment after. You might contend that he has got to be a sport and take
it with a grin, but in most cases there is much more sincerity behind that grin than you would ever
imagine. So, when the elections are completed in about another month, let's all be able to say that we voted,
in every case, for the man whom we thought best fitted for the office, and whether he won or not,
we are confident the winner was elected by fair means. If this attitude were taken by all of us here
at Davidson, where no organized politics is necessary to learn the merits of a man, we would be able to
literally feel the spirit of goodwill grow, and there would be no possible grounds for false rumors, which unpreventably breed
jealousy and contempt.

Graham Plan.....

When and if Davidson College accepts the invitation extended last month by the Southern Conference, and it seems very probable
that the invitation will be accepted, her athletic teams will be forced to obey a set of rules known as
the Graham Plan. So much has been written and said about this plan that no attempt will be made here
to propound any of its details. Suffice it to say that the general purpose of the rules is to prevent
commercialization of athletics in the colleges composing the Southern Conference. There are comparatively few people who are willing to stand
up and say that in their opinion the widespread custom of subsidizing athletes is altogether for the best. The question
as to whether an athlete should receive special consideration of any kind is debatable, but there is no doubt as
to the fact that present practices are ruinous to the honor of the colleges and to the spirit which athletics
are supposed to engender. Yet when the Southern Conference passes measures designed to cure these evils a chorus of protests
arises all over the South. The objections are mostly based on the ground that the Graham Plan goes entirely too
far in its restrictions. Football fans seem to think that this is just too much of a good thing. Several
schools have frankly admitted that their teams would be absolutely ruined if they obeyed such rules. The question is raised
as to why the conference thought it wise to go so far in one jump, instead of working to bring
about the change more gradually. There may be several reasons. First it should be said that any such set of
rules is always subject to a variety of interpretations. When the Graham Plan is put into action it will probably
not prove to be as bad as the majority of the sports writers have pictured it. Moreover, the evil which
the Graham Plan combats is not always open to the public view. It is an insidious thing, working under cover
without the knowledge even of some persons vitally concerned. For this reason former attempts to eliminate the worst abuses along
this line have failed. If anything is to be done at all the whole system must be yanked out by
the roots and destroyed. Then if actual hardship is being worked on deserving athletes, as the objectors claim, modifications can
be introduced later on. It is only by the most stringent measures and absolute co-operation that true amateur athletics can
be preserved in the modern college. —J.C.W.

Because a mix-up prevented the signing of top-notch bands an Olympic Fund dance planned for Dec. 6 at Ohio State
was indefinitely postponed. It seems that the dance committee was under the impression that the Casa Loma orchestra had been
signed for the event, and didn’t find out until almost too late that it was unavailable.

DAVIDSON OFF THE RECORD

Honor System...

As aftermath to Carolina's cheating ring scandal comes the tale of a freshman who came to Chapel Hill without ever
having heard of the University’s famous honor system. On his first writ, given a few days after the close of
the rushing season, he was somewhat bewildered by the professor's request for “pledge.” He pondered a few minutes, then at
the bottom of his paper wrote, in flowing hand, “Phi Delta Theta.”

Utilitarian...

Odd Quirks and Remnants of Wit

I wish I were a kangaroo,
Despite his funny stances;
I'd have a place to put the junk
My girl brings to the dances.

The big financial battle of the century is now going on between Pres. Russell Patterson and Pres. Cokey Branton. It
seems that the Juniors were contemplating the staging of a dance when Branton stepped in with a Bowery Ball revamp
of the Mid-Winter plan. After a hurried tete-a-tete the Juniors retaliated by offering as big a band as featured Mid-Winters,
at less cost. Then Cokey and his barons languished at the faint glimmer of lost lucre. Fate tipped the scales
a little unfairly for the Pan-Hellenic Council when the wrestling tournament was set for March 13-14. But we hear that
the Juniors are planning to dope Leroy so as to remove the great attraction. Calumnist is betting on the Juniors.
Patterson and his boys are offering Tommy Tucker. Cokey and the plutocrats are offering faith, hope but no charity. Have
you made your date for Junior Speaking?

Mild Protestations

Sin Dial.

Tobacconist Note...

Continuing our policy of useless information for those who smoke, we are happy to report the following from the Kentucky
Derby: A cigarette is two and three-quarters inches long. The average smoker consumes approximately fifteen cigarettes a day, or over
three feet of cylindrical tobacco. Over a period of forty years a nicotine fiend smokes enough fags to stretch from
Lexington, Ky., to Cincinnati. Over a period of four years the girls in one sorority alone smoke enough coffin nails
to reach from Lexington to Washington, D.C.

Petty Judgment...

George Petty is to judge the beauty section of the University of Georgia annual this year. He insists on full-length
photos, saying that he cannot judge the beauty of the owner by the face alone. We feel sorry for those
girls, if their pulchritude is to be compared with that of Petty’s model—his daughter.

One of the unnecessary unreasonabilities we have observed is the ordeal of taking two reviews in one day. And we
have seen several wrecks last week that tackled three. It is physically exhausting, an unfair test and poor learning psychology.
The argument, of course, is that in life one has jam-ups and... that one must learn to arrange his studies.
But as reviews, like sorrows, come not singly but in battalions, it is practically impossible to antedate one’s review studying.
It seems reasonable to us—since review schedules are not particularly adhered to anyway—to allow a student so confronted to place
one of them three days before or after. This would allow the assistant to grade the paper and not inconvenience
the professor.

Washington, D. C. — A number of weeks ago this column was devoted to the New Deal government employees unions,
such as the NRA and the WPA lodges. It was pointed out that these two lodges, under the guidance of
militant young officers, not long out of college, had proved thorns in the side of President Babcock, head of the
American Federation of Government Employees, and often threatened his supremacy.

The limit

Picturesque Probosces

In line with the tendency to form ornery fraternities, we propose the Alpha Chapter of Iota Smella Beta, the Big
Nose Club of the campus. King D. Hill would be Lord High Nostril, for he is the only man alive
who can smoke a cigarette under the showers. Tom Breeden and Anderson, Loch Vass and Bill Benfield would be brothers
in the first degree and Tom Ross, Jims Hodgin, and Reinhardt. Hindu Hash and Higgs Brown would be pledges. Joe
Hunter would be the Lord High Potentate. We hear that the Juniors are going to stand him at the gate
for a human turnstile, turning his head as each man enters. Montaigne and Voltaire also had similar facial disturbances, as
well as the columnist, known as Pathe News: Sees all and all Nose.

Gigolo of the week: Bill Hancock, who has ants not in trousers but around the elbows. From other columns: “Smackdab
in the middle of the week, we hear Gilbert Palmer, Jr. broadcast via CBS with the Davidson College Symphony Band.
Not that we hear him very plainly; he beats the drum. Congratulations: To Student Body for vetoing amendment. Didn't think
it possible for Student Body to be against anything ... Also to Scabbard and Blade for much-needed flag. Sympathies: to
Skinny Stevens, suffering from DT's or such. He dreams dogs, etc., are chasing him and his roommate says he gets
positively uncontrollable. These Yankees ... Also to Herb Mother Willis. Needs snake powder. Brothers going to Presbyterian Hospital and not
for medical attention. Fryfogle gets more and more crazy. R. Bob Lindsaypuss to Charlotte often goeth to taker Walke ...
Even the gals are calling Yentz Brogpuss.

STOLEN THUNDER By DAYMOND TURNER

During a college student smokes enough cigarettes to stretch around Washington. A male student at the University of Minnesota found
his name a source of confusion to the faculty. His name was Marion. The limit was reached when he received
a letter from the dean of women inquiring about his room situation, she of course, thinking him a woman. He
replied: “Dear Deanie: I am rooming over in the men’s dorm, and the boys are just darling!”

Justice

A student at a certain western university, caught without a term paper one day snatched one from his fraternity files,
typed it, and handed it in. It came back with an “A” on it and a note asking him to
see the professor. “Do you think that paper was worth an ‘A’?” queried the professor. The student, thinking to charm
the former with a display of modesty, admitted he had expected a “B.” “Well, it’s worth an ‘A,’ see?” said
the professor. “When I wrote it fifteen years ago, it got a ‘C.’ I'm glad to see that it has
at last received the recognition that it deserved.”

Heirloom

A Wellesley girl who was slightly bashful about exposing her long woolen underwear before her ethereal-looking roommate at a Dartmouth
house-party, began a hasty explanation. “You see,” she said, as she pulled off her ski suit, “these are my father’s.
I don’t usually wear them.” “Oh, that’s nothing,” said her companion, pulling off her outer garments and showing an equally
long pair of grey woolens, “these are my grandfather’s.” —Wellesley College News

Self-Support

Several students at Purdue University are earning their way through college by acting as professional pall-bearers. A local mortician pays
them at the rate of two dollars per funeral.

Ad Nauseam

I bought a wooden whistle, but it wouldn’t whistle; I bought a steel whistle, and still it wouldn't whistle; so
I bought a tin whistle, and now it whistles.

—Rotunda

Living Newspaper,” a dramatized version of the daily news prepared for presentation in New York by the New York Federal
Theatre Project, was scrapped at Baker's order on the grounds, it was said, that it portrayed Haile Selassie, Mussolini, and
other foreign dignitaries. Elmer Rice, New York director of the project, resigned immediately following the ban. Commentators said the State
Department had requested the cancellation of the production. Drew Pearson and Bob Allen in “Washington Merry-Go-Round” said that the real
reason behind the censorship was that the WPA here feared subsequent productions, loaded with dynamite on various social questions of
the day, that were scheduled to open following “The Living Newspaper,” and therefore cracked down in advance.

Liberal students the country over might put a gold star against the names of Maury Maverick of Texas, Scott of
California, and Marcantonio of New York. These three Congressmen did what they could to block compulsory R.O.T.C. under the army
appropriation voted last week and prevent “goose-stepping on the campus.”

Songs. Comforting Thought: that the lowliest freshman is the dignified alumnus of some prep school. Poem: Fee, Fi, Fo, Phewey!
I smell the blood of a Yankee. No, Haake, please don’t call my bluff. Space must be filled!

THIS COLLEGIATE WORLD

Those who thought from the first that Eddie Cantor's offer of several thousand dollars for the best essay by a
college boy on how to keep America out of war, was only a publicity stunt, are probably close to the
mark. A writer in the New Theatre Magazine interviewed Mr. Cantor on his proposal and the following conversation transpired:

“Who suggested the idea of the Peace Contest?”
Eddie: “Newton D. Baker.”
“Do you expect any helpful ideas to come out of it? Do you think it will help to keep the
United States out of war?”
Eddie: “The United States get into war? Don't be silly.”
“How do you think America can stay out of war?”
Eddie: “By arming to the teeth.”

Compare the

NEWS From Davidsonians of Years Gone By

—1931—

Dr. E. L. Swan of New York, will deliver a series of lectures here on Social Hygiene. He has been
sought by the college authorities for several years to make these lectures. Athletic night will be held this week. The
trophies and letters for this year will be awarded. Mr. David Ovens of Charlotte, speaks at vespers, taking as his
subject, “Seconders of the Motion.” R.O.T.C. holds its convention at Duke. Grier Martin was chosen vice-president of the assembly. Y.M.C.A.
Deputations go to Charlotte churches over the weekend. Davidson sends three delegates to the Omicron Delta Kappa convention in Lexington,
Ky. Sigma Pi Sigma and Gamma Sigma Epsilon extend bids to ten men. Dr. Charles F. Myers will talk at
spring services this year. Track practice will begin Monday. Annual photographer takes views of the campus for Quips and Cranks.

—1926—

Glee Club returns from a tour of the southland. Tex Tilson signs as Wildcat coach for next year. He will
work with Younger, who signed several weeks ago. Wrestling team wins six straight matches. Queens College dramatic club presents a
play here. For the first semester the average for the entire senior class is 90.52. This is an unprecedented record
for senior classes at Davidson College. Spring golf tournament will begin this week. Davidson students attend R.O.T.C. convention at Brenau
College. Railroad plans improvement on Davidson Line. Freshmen make plans for high school meet to be held here soon. Spanish
Club elects officers.

—1921—

Eighteen delegates represent Davidson at the State Volunteer conference at Durham. Charlotte “Y” defeated by Davidson, 55-11. Dr. H. B.
Arbuckle entertains Gamma Sigma Epsilon at supper. Junior speaking plans look bright. Davidson College Magazine appears. Eight letter men among
large number reporting for baseball practice. Track is now practicing regularly. R.O.T.C. spring inspection will be held March 10.

—1916—

Six men awarded basketball letters for service this year. Prospects are looking very bright for the baseball team this spring.
Queens College Glee Club gives a concert here. It is well attended by the students. The 1916 Quips and Cranks
goes to press. Printers, Publishers, Bookbinders, Commercial and Social Printing and Publishing. Book and Catalog Publishing a Specialty.

We hear that there was a Glee Club initiation last Thursday. That must have been those unchanged voices chirping outside
my door. Eh, Phifer? When Bill Kink was small and got lost, did his mother start a search for The
Missing Link? Ondit: that Cokey is losing out at Brenau. That Schnozz Hill has a Henry Cathey follows up snaking
job. Goes faster and faster. Or as the Yankees would say it, Foster. Atwater, Bob, why did at all get
mad with you? Honor Roll: Bill Archer and Reg Harris in the figure at Greensboro. Sky Cline, “The King of
the May.” Things we are weary of:

REPRESENTATIVES: LAMONT BROWN——R. P. MORROW

STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY 117 Garland Court Charlotte, N. C.
