THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 11

Richard Halliburton Describes His Trips In Adventure Lands
Travel Chats With Reporter Before Speaking in Charlotte

IS ON LECTURE TOUR
Author Plans to Write Comic Strip After June 1

“I had planned to slip into town unseen and unnoticed, but I guess I was wrong!” So said Richard Halliburton, traveler, author, and lecturer, as he donned a black dressing gown and sat down on the edge of his hotel bed. He looked tired. “I've been lecturing every night, except for Christmas, since the first of October, and I expect to continue until June 1! I'm leaving for Florida by airplane tomorrow morning at 3 o'clock, and I hope to get a little rest there. I have a bad case of chronic laryngitis, and it bothers me considerably. After I complete my lecture tour, I don't know what I'll do. Bell Syndicate has contracted me for a comic strip called ‘Dirk and Denny Davis,’ to begin sometime within the next two weeks.”

“By the way, I believe you know Prof. G. B. Watts, of Davidson, don’t you?”

“Oh, yes, quite well. He used to teach me German at Lawrenceville, N. J., but I understand he’s a French professor at Davidson now. French is much the better language, by the way. German has some culture and literature, but it does not compare with French as an international language.”

“Do you mind telling about some of your interesting escapades? About the elephant you took across the Alps?”

“Oh, she was one of the gentlest, best-tempered elephants ever to have seen, and she certainly did play the harmonica! I loved her. When I got to the border, however, an Italian veterinary stopped me and examined the elephant for hives or whatever she might give to Italian elephants. When we completed the trip and I took the elephant to Paris, she was widely acclaimed and people (Continued on Page 6)

Schurz Offers Set of Goethe

The Carl Schurz Memorial Foundation, Inc., of 225 South Fifteenth Street, Philadelphia, is this year offering to German departments of a number of colleges a six-volume complete set of Goethe's works, to be awarded for excellence in German in such manner as the departments shall determine. Davidson College has been included in the list of colleges thus favored. The books have arrived and are on exhibition in the library. The award will be made to a Senior for general excellence and interest in German throughout his college course. The name of the winner will be announced at commencement.

The Foundation is a non-political organization devoted to bettering cultural and friendly relations between Germany and the United States. It bears the name of a German expatriate of 1848 who made valuable contributions to the culture of our country. The Carl Schurz Foundation has extended other courtesies to Davidson College. The recital of the late Austrian reader, Mac Montor, and the recent exhibit of German art were made possible by the cooperation of the Foundation.

PHI BETAS TO MAKE SPRING NOMINATIONS

Members of Phi Beta Kappa will meet for the election of new members on Thursday, March 12, at 7:30 o’clock, in room 206 Chambers. The present student members of the honorary scholastic fraternity are: J. W. Hassell, M. J. Barnett, J. M. Walker, J. H. Ross, C. B. Chapman, F. M. Toole, C. G. Smith, and A. L. Bulwinkle. These men were issued bids and initiated in the fall. Spring bids will be issued before spring holidays. Phi Beta Kappa, founded at William and Mary College in 1776, is the oldest and largest of honorary Greek letter fraternities in America.

FOUNDERS DAY WILL BE HELD

Nation-Wide Observances Are Scheduled By Majority Of Alumni Chapters

Davidson College will celebrate the ninety-ninth anniversary of its founding this year in a quiet, serious strain of mind on April 9. In place of the long, formal chapel services, featuring commemorative addresses by prominent public figures, and inviting visits to the campus by groups of dignitaries, Founder's Day will be observed by a simple anniversary chapel program. At present no definite plans have been announced, but the pomp and ceremony of the past will not be present at this year’s services. That night, April 9, the alumni chapters over the country will hold their annual Founder's Day meeting and an attempt will be made to broadcast a special program by the Davidson music department over the network for the benefit of all the chapters in session. However, the Jacksonville, Atlanta, Miami, and Philadelphia groups have already had their meetings. Grier Martin and Dr. Frazer Hood are to go north to assist in the alumni meeting of the New York Chapter. Grier Martin will show pictures of the football games and the campus while Dr. Hood will be the feature speaker at this meeting on March 30. Grier will probably be the only Davidson representative at an informal meeting in Richmond on March 25.

Arnold Shoots Pig By Chance

Billy Arnold evidently forgot to squeeze the trigger last week when he was shooting at that little bird, because he accidentally hit a farmer’s pig. Here's how it happened: Bill was big game hunting with a .22 rifle somewhere near Davidson, and saw a little bird on a wire fence nearby. He fired and missed (there must have been something wrong with the gun). The bullet, instead of stopping when it discovered its mistake, kept right on going for about fifty yards, went into a pig pen, and—well, if you had heard the yells coming out, you would have thought a hundred pigs were dead (Continued on Page 6)

DAVIDSON THEATRE

THURSDAY-MONDAY AND WEDNESDAY, MARCH 11
GIVE US THIS NIGHT
With Jan Kiepura and Gladys Swarthout

FRIDAY, MARCH 12-13
THE SILLY BILLIES
With Bert Wheeler, Robert Woolsey, Dorothy Lee

SATURDAY, MARCH 14
KING OF THE DAMNED
With Conrad Veidt, Helen Vinson, Philip Manuale, Benny Baker

TUESDAY, MARCH 16-17
MR. HOBO
With George Arliss, Gene Gerrard, Viola Keats

Town Tattle

The Davidson Music Club held its regular meeting Tuesday night, March 10, in the Civic League Hall. Mrs. W. P. Cumming was in charge of the program which consisted of selections taken from instrumental and vocal light opera.

Mrs. Alexander Belk of Air, Md., was the guest of her aunt, Mrs. R. S. Burwell, during the week-end.

Mrs. O. M. Watts, of Charlottesville, Va., has arrived in Davidson to be the guest of Mrs. Agnes Brown for several days.

Mrs. W. B. Hamrick and Mr. and Mrs. A. D. Carter have moved into their new home, formerly the home of Mr. and Mrs. A. D. Carter, on North Main. The Carters have moved to Gastonia.

Mrs. Margaret Southerland, of Winston-Salem, spent the week-end with her daughter, Mrs. Heath Whittle.

Dr. and Mrs. Walter Lingle spent Friday evening in Salisbury, where Dr. Lingle spoke at the First Presbyterian Church.

Prof. Henry T. Lilly was the guest speaker at the regular meeting of the Book-Lovers Club Friday (Continued on Page 6)

Pastors Hear Dr. W. L. Lingle

“Why I Believe in the Deity of Jesus Christ” Is Subject of Address

The ministers’ group which has been holding regular meetings for the past several months heard Dr. W. L. Lingle speak Tuesday afternoon on the subject “Why I Believe in the Deity of Jesus Christ.” In answering the question of his subject the speaker gave ten reasons for his belief in Christ’s Deity. He said those who knew Christ believed in His Deity. Some of the reasons are: because Christ claims it, because of His personality, and because of His character. 

In discussing the personality of Christ, Dr. Lingle asked, “If an unlettered fisherman could not have created the personality of Christ, then who could have?” Dr. Lingle said that any gospel writer could not have conceived of so brilliant a personality as Christ. Continuing the discussion, Dr. Lingle gave more reasons for his belief in the Deity of Jesus, such as His sinless life, His miraculous deeds, and His teachings. 

“What might seem miraculous to the Jews might be explained by the use of natural laws. I sat by my radio and heard church bells in Bethlehem ring on Christmas morning,” the speaker said. “To our forefathers this would have seemed miraculous, but now we know that it is done simply by the use of natural laws.” 

Then, “I believe in the Deity of Jesus because of His teachings, because of the way in which He died, and because of His resurrection. Rousseau said, ‘Socrates died like a philosopher, but Christ died like a God.’” Another reason for the belief in the Deity of Christ is the morals and life of His followers. If the Gospels had ended at the death of Christ, there would be no Christianity or Church. (Continued on Page 6)Jesus God,” resurrection m. Thoma on cut out supernat them “De The of put name of Jesus.” burial rowing disciples Gospel had ended reasons were influ- MEMBERS INITIATED INTO SPANISH CLUB Eight New Spanish Enthusiasts Formally Taken Into Sigma Delta Pi SOCIAL HOUR FOLLOWS Mrs. Seifert and Miss Rhett Among Those Taken in The fraternity Sigma Delta Pi held its regular honorary meeting last Wednesday night at which eight new members were initiated. The new members thus taken into the fraternity are: Mrs. Frances Seifert, Miss Elizabeth Rhett, Jack Branch, Woodrow Hassell, J. J. McNabb, Joe Hunter, Daymond Turner, and Arthur Cooke. After the initiation ceremony, the entire society enjoyed a general social hour at which time refreshments were served. Sigma Delta Pi is a national honorary Spanish fraternity recognizing those students who show an interest and ability in the study of the language and the literature of the Spanish people. One of their main projects this year is to further the development of the Spanish Club which they sponsor. The purpose of the Spanish Club, which was organized here last year, is to encourage those men who have ability and talent towards the knowledge of Spanish. It is also a club for prospective members of Sigma Delta Pi. The officers of Sigma Delta Pi are as follows: President, Billy Merchant; Vice President, Marl Clark; Secretary, Enid Bower; Treasurer, Tom O. Members are: Colman Branton, C. T. Harper, Cole Windham, and Woodrow Burn. Gaebelin Will Speak Sunday Stony Brook Head is on Southern Lecture Tour as a pianist and organist. Dr. Gaebelin is on a speaking tour in the south, and has kindly consented to stop at Davidson for the Vespers Sunday night. Americana: Gov. Floyd B. Olson of Minnesota has had a bronze pig, one-third life size, cast as a trophy for the annual Iowa-Minnesota football game. Among suitable objects for justifiable homicide, say Northwestern University co-eds, is the man who hums while dancing. Dr. Frank E. Gaebelin, headmaster at Stony Brook, Long Island, New York, will speak at Vespers on next Sunday evening, March 15. Dr. Gaebelin has been headmaster at Stony Brook since the founding of that school in 1922, and has had wide experience in dealing with young men. He is a graduate of New York University, and while there made three letters in track, and also Phi Beta Kappa. He took graduate work at Harvard. Mr. Gaebelin served in the World War as a lieutenant. He has written a number of books, and has contributed to several magazines. His reply to Mencken’s well-known attacks on the church was published in the North American Review. Dr. Gaebelin is also very well known. Davidson Debaters On Monday Evening BETA THETA PI — Brothers Steere, Winn, and Hall visited their SOPHOMORES EDIT Salango and Stewart Uphold Negative Side of Question THIS ISSUE In anticipation of the selection of next year’s managing editors for The Davidsonian, the following sophomores assumed managing duties in the editing of this issue: Sports Page—Sam Cothran. Fifth Page—Euclid Fant. Sixth Page—Earnest Dooley. Assignments—Dick Vowles. All those sophomores who did not assume managing duties in this issue will do so next week. KAPPA ALPHA—The officers of the chapter for the coming year will be elected Thursday night. Brother Summerell went home for the weekend. Pledge Lutz spent the weekend at his home in Hickory. SIGMA ALPHA EPSILON — Fourteen men were initiated into the N.C. Theta chapter last Thursday night. Brothers Lamont Brown, Bobby Florence, Tom Marchant, Hoke Robinson, and Perry Sloan attended the southern conference basketball tournament in Raleigh. KAPPA SIGMA—Delta chapter initiated five new men last Thursday night. Brother George Norfleet spent the weekend at Winston-Salem. PHI KAPPA PHI—Brothers Tom Cameron and Mills Taylor went to Roseford. Bobbie Arrowsmith and Paul Yelverton attended the Adelphian Society dance at W.C. PHI GAMMA DELTA—Greenboro had the pleasure of welcoming the Cooke boy Gene Ganier, Paul Harlan, Elmore Holt, and Overton on their usual weekly jaunt to this fair city. PHI DELTA THETA—At the chapter elections Ralph McClelland was elected president, John Allen, reporter, and Andy Alfan, treasurer. These and the other officers will be installed at the next meeting. Miss Voit Monroe and Bob Glasgow entertained the chapter at a buffet supper in Charlotte Saturday night. SIGMA NU — Last Saturday night Epsilon chapter held a party at the house. The girls present were Marie Cline, Nell Deadman, Dot Jones, and Brownie Rendleman of Salisbury; Miriam Goodrum, Mary Moffet, and Mary Withers of Davidson; and Mary Virginia Buckley, Margaret Calder, Witty Graham, Marie Neigkirk, Jean Orr, Anne Peas, Lil Smith, Jane Ellen Taylor, and Jane Wiley of Charlotte. Professor and Mrs. Fulcher chaperoned the party. The University of North Carolina has ruled that any student “who does not habitually write good English” must go to the English department for periodic polishing. The University of Chicago has one of the world’s most complete newspaper files. The Chicago file of the London Chronicle extends back to (Continued on Page 6) Whoever you are, whatever you do... you've got to pause. Stop a minute and let the life and sparkle of ice-cold Coca-Cola give you a fresh start. WB—150-56 GABARDINE SUITS $22.45 By Rockingham... BELK’S CHARLOTTE, N. C.