Page Six THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 25, 1936

Mrs. Smith Relates Her Experiences at Davidson

Has Served as Supervisor of Dormitories For Past Fifteen Years

NOTES IMPROVEMENTS

Has Found Skulls and Dressed Up Dogs in Beds

Davidson has undergone great changes during the past fifteen years, asserts Mrs. N. T. Smith, supervisor of dormitories. At the time she accepted that position, East and West dormitories had just been completed; no walks existed around them, and mud was several inches deep all around. The enrollment was about 300.

Boys Needed Care

“I came to Davidson,” continued Mrs. Smith, “because I felt that the care and interest of the boys would have a fair return.”

Spectators Will See Exhibition

It has been announced that spectators at basketball games this season will witness more gymnastic exhibitions, similar to those of last year. About eight members of last year’s team are back, and other men from the gym class of thirty will be selected to replace those who did not return. The old men back are: Elmore Holt, Jerry Harris, J. Y. Templeton, Bob Blue, Jean Vogler, Pete McKee, and Lloyd Feuchtenberger. Other men from the class who have been showing up well include Bobby Florence, T. E. McAlpine, E. A. Lukins, and Parker.

First Edition of Dr. Johnson’s Famous Dictionary Added To Library

The library has this week added a distinguished old book, Dr. Samuel Johnson’s famous dictionary, which was presented by Mrs. G. W. McPhail to the college. It is thought that the book is a first edition, published in 1755. The book is on display.

SMALL SNAKE VISITS LIBRARY FREQUENTLY

Library Attendants First Suspected Some Student of Practical Joke

A slightly overgrown bookworm has taken up residence in the cloistered world of the college library, according to Mr. Chalmers Davidson, the librarian. This strange bibliophile, although only a common green snake, has developed the habit of seeking shelter in the frequent dark corners of the basement and has displayed great intellect in his fondness for the weighty reference books kept there. The library attendants first suspected some student of attempting a practical joke, but the snake continued to appear in spite of numerous efforts to discourage him. However, it seems that he has selected some other place to spend the winter months in hibernation. He has been conforming to the long-standing traditions of the library in that he always is alone on all visits and is apparently an old maid or a bachelor.

BETTER LATE THAN NEVER!

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY AWARDED COL. WARREN WHITSIDE HIS BACHELOR OF SCIENCE DEGREE LAST JUNE, JUST 38 YEARS LATE! COL. WHITSIDE LEFT SCHOOL A MONTH BEFORE HIS GRADUATION TO TAKE PART IN THE SPANISH AMERICAN WAR. HE REMAINED WITH THE REGULAR ARMY AND THE UNIVERSITY DID NOT LEARN OF THE PECULIAR CIRCUMSTANCES UNTIL LAST SPRING.

THE AVERAGE NUMBER OF FOULS IN A BASKETBALL GAME IS 22.

THE TEMPLE OWLS PLAYED NIGHT GAMES FOR 7 YEARS BEFORE DROPPING THEIR FIRST NIGHT CONTEST THIS YEAR!

DAVIDSON OFF THE RECORD

(Continued from Page 3)

Certainly a meaningful implication for sanity and tolerance in the story. Which lesson may be remembered in the flood of Frank R. Kentish vilification to come. The writer will attempt a more considered comparison of the American situations met by Mr. Jefferson and Mr. Roosevelt in the next issue.

French Club to Present Two One-Act Plays Soon

Flash! Norman Shepard, Director of Athletics, made a statement before the student body yesterday morning to the effect that girls’ tickets will be procurable, by a special ruling of the Athletic Council, for the Wake Forest game tomorrow, at the usual rate of one-half the public price. This ruling does not, he said, apply to games to be played next year. Shepard stated that this concession is in response to the student body petition presented below; he then outlined the abuses which have led to the present council attitude toward girls’ tickets.

GREAT BATTLE

(Continued from Page 4)

The Wildcats have been brought slowly up to their peak for this important game. They are not fooling about this one either. They know it will be hard, but they intend to leave the field victorious.

Debate Featured at Last Meeting Held at Home of Dr. Goldiere

BI-MONTHLY MEETING

Cast Is Under Direction of Dr. Goldiere

The bi-monthly meeting of the French Club was held last night at the home of Prof. Goldiere. The main event of the meeting was a debate: Resolved: “That Davidson Students Should be Allowed to have Cars on the Campus.”The affirmative side was Wade Barrow, Ralph McClelland, and John Reisner; the negative, Archer Torrey, Scott Raynal, and Terrell Porter. A one-act comedy “L’Anglais Tel Qu’On Le Parle” by Tristan Bernard will be presented by the club sometime after Christmas. It has also been planned to present the play at different schools. The principal actors are to be Wade Barrow, Sam Cothran, Ralph McClelland, Frank Poe, and John Winn. There are also minor characters, but the parts have not been selected as yet.

Another one-act play “Le Médecin Malgré Lui” will also be presented by a cast taken from the members recently initiated at the first part of the year.

During “hell week” some freshmen had taken some floral designs from the negro cemetery and put them up in their room. Indeed, a tombstone found its way into the room as well. Mrs. Smith, upon discovering this, persuaded them to remove it. One superstitious freshman even threw it out the window.

“When they heard I was coming,” stated Mrs. Smith, “many of them got in bed with their R.O.T.C. uniforms on, saying that they were sick. All who pretended to be sick were reported, and as a result, several students went home for the holiday break several days in advance of the schedule. Rooms have character,” she said with earnestness, and expressed her delight with the many beautiful rooms on the hill this year. “They are getting better and better; but there is still room for improvement.”

SCRIPTS ’N PRANKS (Continued from Page 3)

The following: The editor’s note by Sam Kirk; Tom Perris’ short story entitled “Strip Act,” by Gibson Smith; “Dictated But Not Read” will again appear with Harold Crane as the author; Charlie’s story; poems by Herring, MacIlwinen, and Cade will shine; “A Handbook for Hitch-Hikers” will also be present; and last but not least there will be plenty of Christmas humor.

Loafing is natural unless one is taught to work. And this is especially true of the conscience.

American All-Star Eleven

60-yard dashes... passes and punts... touchdowns... performance! That’s how America picks ’em. By wire and air-mail, fans rush to the football experts the tip... “Here’s another sure-fire All-American.” And when you pick the all-star cigarette eleven, it’s performance again — it’s what a cigarette does that counts. T-H-E-Y S-A-T-I-S-F-Y. Eleven letters that spell all the good things a cigarette can give... mildness... a pleasing taste and aroma... a blend of mild ripe home-grown and Turkish tobaccos rolled in pure cigarette paper. Copyright 1936, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co. — the essentials of a good cigarette.

In two folio volumes, he says: “Oak. ns. (ac, aec, Saxon; the dictionary is open to the det- He says: “Oak. ns. (ae, aec, Saxons; the Moral—

CAROLINA TRACK (Continued from Page 4)

What a distasteful commentary it is that President Roosevelt is forced to withdraw. With Walker accused of having connections in Moscow, believed to be Fascistic, Communistic, and stuff, it is believed he is a mighty idealist capable of practicality. From what can filter to us, he has a brilliant command of governmental detail. That he is accused of being vain, the humanitarian. That Rexford Tugwell, probably a mild liberal with administrative genius and a family to support, is a fool communist. Most civilizations have

Stop and let the train go by, it hardly takes a minute; your car then starts again intact—and what is more, you're in it.

Wives should never nag their husbands. He is like an egg—if kept continually in hot water he will become hard-boiled.

Standard Printing Company
23 Garland Court
Charlotte, N.C.