Fass: THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 30, 1936

CLAW THE WILDCATS PREPARE TO TARS

PORTS AFIELD

HELP THE CATS SCUTTLE THE NAVY

Fresh from a victory over those same State Wolves that many predicted would fight Duke for the Southern Conference crown, the Wildcats leave tomorrow to play the Navy Middies on Saturday, October 3. Displaying spirit, teamwork, and alertness, reminiscent of the Wildcats of the past, the team is protecting the crown.

Husing Comments Dick J: In the line, Jim Johnston showed good blocking and a nice tackle. John cleaned up after Purdy. Lee, McClellan, and others are good linebackers. CBS provided the best field coverage. Alternate captain and blocking back, Ed Armfield, showed signs of promise. His calling was good, but one kick missed fire.

BACKFIELD: Lafferty continued his brilliant play. Words can't express the confidence his teammates have in him. Tom Corbin has been the unsung hero, doing one of the best jobs a blocking back has done in the last five years. A Navy scout is quoted as saying, "We'll pass over that bin all afternoon." He'll probably eat his words, for Tom is nobody's fool on defense. Fred Dennis has been a great linebacker and can always be counted on for a few yards. Graham has had two bad licks in two games but has come through.

(Continued on Page 6)

KITTEN TEAM TAKING SHAPE

Seventy-Three Men Report To Coach Laird For Frosh Football Squad

PLAY STRONG DEFENSE

Open Season Here Next Friday With P. J. C.

Davidson's Freshman team is steadily improving. Several players should become varsity material later. The Kittens have proved to be strong in defense during scrimmages and have started to practice offensive plays. Three men, Hornberger, Jones, and McLean, are trying for berths as ends. Cagle and others are good at their positions. Miller and others are good in the backfield. Currie, May, Ricer, Watkins, and others are good material. Garret and Winters are inexperienced but show promise. The Wildkitten footballers of 1940 have a fair team with some pretty good players.

Sellars Speaks

Sellars, manager and assistant coach, stated that the Freshmen are the smallest squad he has ever coached. He urged more men to try out for the team. The first game is tomorrow, with Junior College.

Seniors Defeat Frosh In Intramural Opener

Touch football got under way Monday with the Seniors winning against the Freshmen to the tune of 35 yards. The schedule for the rest of the week is as follows: Tuesday, Sophomores vs. Juniors; Thursday, Juniors vs. Seniors; Friday, Freshmen vs. Juniors. Faison will act as referee for the games.

GLITTER IN CAT VICTORY

Pictured above is Lafferty. Dick plays guard for the Wildcats' "iron man" backfield, which is making football history this year. They played the full sixty minutes in the game with N. C. State last Saturday night. From left to right they are: Fred Dennis, Ed Armfield, Tom Corbin, and Teeny. At the right is Dick Johnson, Captain of the Wildcats. Johnson has been one of the chief reasons for the great defensive play this year.

AMERICANS ARE READY FOR BELMONT ABBEY

Coach Parks Harrison Will Take Squad of 16 to Belmont Friday

The reserve football team, commonly known as the "All Americans," is working hard for their opening game this Friday afternoon, which will be played on the Belmont Abbey field. The small size of the squad is a concern. Only sixteen men will make the trip to Belmont when the varsity leaves on Thursday morning. The Belmont Abbey team has already played one game, losing to the powerful N. C. State Freshman eleven. The All Americans last met the Abbey team in 1934 and won after a hard struggle. The probable starting line-up for the All Americans will be: Ends: Biggs and Smith; Tackles: Brown and Rudisill; Guards: Green and Center: McCall; and Backs: Gasteiger, Sadler, Hand, and Quick.

The team has not decided on a system yet, but they have learned from the varsity. They will present a combination of three systems, which may cause confusion for the opponents.

ALL MINISTERS (Continued from Page 3)

Davidson Theatre

Wed., Sept. 30-Thurs. Oct. 1
SWING TIME
Starring that great dance team—Fred Astaire and Ginger Rogers.

Fri.-Sat. Oct. 2 and 3
THE LAST OF THE MOHICANS
An Excellent Picture of Early History—Starring Randolph Scott

Mon.-Tues, Oct. 5-6
WOMEN ARE TROUBLE
Starring Kitty McHugh and Florence Rice. You'll like it. One of the best pictures of the year.

Mrs. H. M. Moffett is now recuperating from an operation at the Presbyterian Hospital in Charlotte.

The Misses Agnes Brown, Dorothy Johnston, and Elizabeth Shewmake spent last weekend in Davidson visiting their parents. The three girls attend the University of North Carolina in Chapel Hill.

GIANTS, YANKS MEET FOR '36 WORLD SERIES IN MANHATTAN TODAY

New York Clubs Win Pennants After Season of Many Upsets

Big-time baseball has come down to the final round with the New York Yankees of the American League and the New York Giants of the National League starting the play-off of the World Series at the Polo Grounds in Manhattan this afternoon.

Giants Surprise

This season has been full of surprises, and it is ending with two clubs in the final play-off that pre-season talk last spring placed far from the top. In the National League, the highly-favored St. Louis Cardinals are playing second fiddle, along with the Cubs from Chicago, largely because Paul Dean was not able to handle his share of the work on the mound. The big show began this afternoon at the Polo Grounds, home of the Giants, and after two games, the scene of action will move to the Yankee Stadium.

Odds On Yanks

The Broadway bookmakers are favoring the Yanks with odds at 11 to 20. However, it looks like a tough fight to the finish. Manager Bill Terry is depending on Carl Hubbell to carry his Giants to victory, but it is a stiff job for one pitcher after a hard season. Baseball is tough anyway when it is against such sluggers as Bill Dickey, Joe DiMaggio, and Lou Gehrig.

So there you are, and your guess is as good as mine.Dinner. The Sorosis Club celebrated its tenth anniversary Thursday evening. The meeting was held at the Civic Club Hall. Friday night, the Thelemite went to Rozelle’s Ferry.

REMODELED - - - - WHEN IN CHARLOTTE MAKE THE LITTLE PEP West Fourth Street YOUR HEADQUARTERS AIR CONDITIONED

JOHNSON-GUARD

Cross-Country Varsity Looking to Duke Meet

Davidson's varsity cross-country team, under the guidance of Pete Whittle, closed its first week and a half of practice, with several men looking good as prospects for the team this year. The first meet is with Duke on October 17. Among those aspirants who were making a good showing after the first few practices were: “Boo” Walker, Bruce Parcell, R. M. Wilson, Frank Poe, H. L. Kuykendall, Bill Telford, and R. A. Torrey. Besides the meet with Duke on October 17, there is also one scheduled with Carolina, the date for which has not been settled at present. A third meet is expected to be arranged with either the University of Virginia, Washington and Lee, or V. M. I. The Davidson cross-country team will also participate in the Southern Conference cross-country meet, which is to be held in Chapel Hill on November 21.

BEFORE YOU FORGET GET YOUR COLLEGE RING Bearing Official Seal Certified $2.00 Value only 25¢ with the purchase of a bottle of Parker Quink at 15¢—Total 40¢... YOU SAVE $1.75

The Parker Pen Co. makes this amazing offer solely to induce you to try Parker Quink—the remarkable new ink that cleans your pen as it writes—that dries ON PAPER 31% faster, yet does NOT dry in a pen. Get Quink today from any store selling ink. Cut off the box-top, and on the back write the FULL NAME of your school or college, ring SIZE, and style wanted (man’s or woman's) and your name and address. Then mail box-top with 25 cents in coin to The Parker Pen Co., Dept. 738, Janesville, Wis. Don't delay. This offer ends Dec. 31, 1936, if supply lasts.

DAVIDSON MEETS NAVY INSPIRED BY LAST WIN

Navy Somewhat Weakened By Graduation and Recent Injuries to Team

TEAM LEAVES THURSDAY

Tars Impressed By Cats’ Work

Tomorrow morning the Wildcat football team, claws sharpened to a fine point by Coach Doc Newton, will entrain for Annapolis where they meet the Navy Midshipmen on the gridiron Saturday. Fresh from their victory over State in which they decisively outplayed the Wolfpack, the Cats are pointing for this contest with the Tars. On the other hand, Navy opened its season last week with an 18-6 defeat of a rather mediocre William and Mary team. Lt. Tom Hamilton, the young man who took charge of Navy's gridiron destinies in 1934 and gave the Middies their first win over Army in years, is frankly worried about his team. Pre-season ballyhoo played up Navy as the team of the year to beat in the East, but thus far his charges have failed to justify this statement. The team that takes the field against Davidson will be pretty much the same in personnel as last year’s varsity. Some good men have been lost through graduation and injury, which has been damaging to the reserve strength, particularly the ends. The replacements have come mainly from the squad, for most of the 1935 plebes who were counted on failed to make the scholastic grade. The key men of the team are the renowned Sneed Schmidt in the backfield, Capt. Morrell at guard, and Saucek at end. Lou Robertshaw, the great defensive center, will be sorely missed.

Schmidt Leads

Last year's Middie team was superior in manpower to any in some time, but lacked experience and poise. Coach Hamilton thinks that this year's aggregation is fully as strong and it has the added advantage of experience. The team is largely made up of hard workers, rather than brilliant individual performers, Schmidt and Reimann, triple threat halfback, being the only particularly talented stars. These two will be supported in the backfield by Case and Antrim, blocking backs. Navy scouts who saw the Davidson-State game were impressed by the Cats, especially the slippery Lafferty. Having had a taste of the wing-back system of offense employed by Navy in the contest with Duke, the Wildcats will know how to use their three defensive formations to the best advantage. A great deal has been said about the Wildcats’ new razzle-dazzle offense, but it has not yet been in evidence. Maybe the Tars will get a look at it Saturday. William and Mary held the Navy to one touchdown during the first 54 minutes of play and with a few breaks, Davidson has a chance to win this game.

Carolina And Duke Win Crucial Games

Many Conference Teams Show Power in Early Season Encounters

Almost rivaling the smashing victory of the fighting Wildcats over State’s Wolfpack, the Demon Deacons from Wake Forest outfought and outplayed a powerful Carolina team for three quarters only to be defeated by two long drives in the last period. A crowd of 12,000 gathered in Charlotte’s new stadium to witness this classic which was also Wake Forest's first game as a member of the Southern Conference. Taking a Carolina punt on his own 42-yard line, Dallas Morris, Deacon halfback, galloped through the Tar Heel team for a score. Carolina was forced to take to the air to score their first touchdown. Captain Dick Buck snatched a pass out of the air on the goal line while Wake Forest men swarmed all around attempting to ground the ball. Carolina then began a drive from their own 36-yard stripe that was terminated only after Little raced around end 11 yards for a touchdown. Wake Forest scored a safety late in the quarter.

It was a plucky, fighting bunch of gridiron warriors who represented Wake Forest, and with the services of Morris and Kitchen throughout the entire game, the outcome might have been entirely different. Wake Forest, a team to watch this year, is far from the wonder machine of stars such as last season, but with Dick Buck, Crowell Little, Jim Hutchins, Art Ditt, and George Watson, the sophomore sensation, they may go places yet.

Duke vs. Colgate

The Duke Blue Devils proved by their 6-0 win over Colgate that they have a real team this year—a team which is likely to make Southern Conference history. Hackney, Parker, Tolliferro, and Hill played outstanding ball in downing the Red Raiders from Hamilton in one of the important intersectional battles of the year. Duke fans already have Rose Bowl aspirations, and, while it is too early to consider the possibility of a trip to Pasadena, the Dukes are the team to beat in the Southern Conference this year.

V. M. I, picked by many experts as the “dark horse” of the Conference, soundly defeated the South Carolina Gamecocks 24-7 in the battle of the sophomores. Andy Trzeciak was the spearhead of the Cadet attack, once sprinting 90 yards for a touchdown.

The Clemson Tigers showed plenty of power in defeating V. P. I. 20-0. Joe Berry passed, kicked, and ran beautifully to lead the somewhat erratic attack which netted 12 first downs for the Tigers. It will take a mighty good team to put Clemson out of the Conference picture. Their meeting with Duke on October 10 should be a natural.

Furman Impresses

The Furman Hurricane blew Wofford off the field to the tune of 31-0 in their game at Spartanburg Saturday. The Furman team (Continued on Page 6)

Aside from the indispensable black town shoe, the wing tip brogue leads in all-around usefulness for campus or business. This one is in Gambola grain. Vegetable tanning makes this handsome leather soft, smooth, easy to wear.

WING TIPS COME NEXT