SMOOTH MUSIC OF FREDDY MARTIN TO BE DANCE FEATURE

The Mavidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

ANNUAL DRIVE FOR GIFT FUND BRINGS OVER 500 DOLLARS

VOL. XXIII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., JANUARY 15, 1936 NUMBER 3

LT. YOUNG ON SPOT BY WILY ROTC COURT

Court-Martial Climaxes Course In Military Law for R.O.T.C. Officers

C. L. WINDHAM PRESIDES

Court Serves Two Penalties On Lt. Fields Young

Fields of obedience to a superior officer at a formal court-martial held last Wednesday in the banquet hall of Chambers
Building. Young Second Lieutenant Young was convicted on a charge of willful disobedience to a superior officer and sentenced to
six months confinement on post, and will not be eligible for promotion for five years. He was acquitted on one
charge of larceny. The charges were preferred by Captain A. L. Bulwinkle. The charges stated that Lieutenant Young failed to
report for drill with his company on November 20 and again on December 2, and both times he willfully disobeyed
his superior officer. The second date brought his conviction. The second charge stated that the accused stole a government pistol
from the College Armory, and as the pistol was there for government use, he was accused of larceny.

Cadet Major C. L. Windham presided as president of the court and Cadet Capt. Hervey Ross served as law member,
Cadet Capt. Woodrow Hassel was trial judge advocate, Cadet 1st Lieut. Al Khun assistant trial judge advocate, Cadet Capt. W.
C. Branton, defense counsel, and Cadet 1st Lieuts. Prosser Morrow, assistant defense counsel. Cadet Capts. Archer, Hodgin, and Wooten; Cadet
1st Lieuts. Taber, Downie, Barnett, Griffin; 2nd Lieuts. Pierce, W. E. Price, Pearce, J. R. Purnell, Cassels, Stewart, Morrow, J.
H., and Beaty made up the balance of the court. Cadet 1st Lieuts. Dees and Taylor served as reporters.

This mock-trial came as a climax for the course in military law for R.O.T.C officers. Major Cochrane stated that the
court-martial was exceptionally well carried out for the first attempt, and that the members of the court seemed to have
a clear idea of justice.

College Adds New Courses

Three New Courses Are Added to the Schedule of the College

Three new courses of instruction will be offered the second semester, according to Mr. F. W. Hegenveld, the registrar, and
a sufficient number of students have enrolled for these courses to assure their being taught. A course in Solid Geometry,
instructed by Prof. W. G. McGavock, will be open to upperclassmen and to freshmen who have an average of A
in the first semester's work in Mathematics 1. Mathematics of Investment, an entirely new course, will be offered to upperclassmen
and taught by Prof. W. W. Wood. This will be a three-hour course dealing with the mathematical relations of money
and time, with problems in interest, and annuities. The third course will be a course in Radio Communication, instructed by
Dr. J. M. Douglas. This course is to be combined with Physics 4, and is open to all upperclassmen who
have had Physics 1 or 2.

Mr. Hegenveld, the registrar, has announced that all students who wish to change their courses for the second semester should
register at his office between Wednesday, January 15, and Saturday, January 18. Those who do not wish to make any
change in their courses will not be required to report for registration at this time. Any student wishing to take
one of these courses must sign for it on the above dates.

Proprietors of the College Inn, New London, Conn., are suing Connecticut College for having placed the restaurant “out of bounds”
for students.

Faculty Executive Committee Chosen

Six Professors, With the Dean and President, Constitute 1936-37 Group

The faculty Executive Committee for the 1936-37 year was elected Tuesday, January 7. The following members were chosen: John Bailey,
chairman of the Language Department; Prof. W. I. Porter, chairman of the Science Department; Dr. K. J. Foreman, chairman of
the Social Science Department; and Professors W. P. Cumming, H. E. Fulcher, and O. J. Thies, elected at large. These
six, along with Dean M. E. Sentelle and President Walter W. Lingle, constitute the new Executive Committee.

The Executive Committee is chosen annually according to the procedure featured by the constitution of the faculty. The members of
the 1935-36 committee are as follows: President Lingle, Dean Sentelle, and Professors T. W. Lingle, F. L. Blythe, S. C.
Lyon, E. H. Gwynn, C. K. Brown, and O. J. Thies.

COLLEGE ACTORS ARE TAKEN INTO NATIONAL GROUP

Alpha Psi Omega, Honorary Dramatic Fraternity, Has Seven Members

HERRING IS PRESIDENT

Alpha Psi Omega, national dramatic society, was admitted to the local honorary fraternity council, at a meeting Monday, January 6.
Charter members of the newly-installed fraternity were Dunlap Covington, Wadesboro; Joe Dees, Greensboro; Ed Donigan, Teaneck, New Jersey; Paul Harlan,
Jackson, Tennessee; Dave Elerting, Burgaw; Bill Pierce, Jacksonville; and Mills Taylor, Wilmington.

The honorary fraternity council decided that this society is to work in conjunction with the Red and Black Masquers. This
local dramatic organization will thus act as a “feeder” to the national club, and the officers will be the same
for both. The present officers of the local group, who will assume the executive duties of Alpha Psi Omega, are
Herring, president; Donigan, vice-president; Bill Pierce, secretary-treasurer; and Johnny Allen, manager.

For entrance from the Red and Black Masquers into Alpha Psi Omega, one is required to have been a member
of the local club for a year, to have taken a leading part in a major play, or enough parts
to answer the requirements as set by the Grand Cast. Only Juniors and Seniors are eligible. Membership may also be
obtained by stage direction, scene design, or some phase of stagecraft.

Ministers Offered A Lecture Course

Dr. T. W. Lingle, Dr. Price H. Gwynn, and Prof. K. J. Foreman Are Speakers

Momentous Decision to Actually Have a Band Is Reached

Saturday FEB. 1st WEEK-END DATE

ATA GIFT FUND OVER FIVE HUNDRED DOLLARS LAY AS DRIVE ENDS

$278.73 of $586.63 Pledged Has Been Collected; Rest Is Due in February

FALLS SHORT OF GOAL

Charles Worth to Use Money In Chinese Mission

Despite unfounded rumors which circulated the campus during the week-end, Pan-Hellenic Council President, Cokey Branton, announced Monday that Freddy Martin
and his orchestra have definitely been secured to supply the music for the annual Mid-Winter dances, to be held in
the Charlotte Armory and Auditorium on Friday and Saturday, January 31 and February 1. Freddy Martin and his orchestra, at
present filling an engagement at the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel in New York, will play for these dances one week before he
opens in the Aragon Ballroom in Chicago. Features of the band are The Martinettes, a vocal trio; a two-piano team;
Elmer Feldkamp, baritone, and Terry Shand, blues singer; Eddie Schaaf, drummer and comic singer; and Freddy Martin himself, one of
the best saxophones in the country, according to press reports. These attractions have been secured for all three dances, rather
than for only the two Saturday dances, as is usual.

Those who do not recall the music of Freddy Martin as played on the “Open House” program over the Columbia
Broadcasting System last year, or who wish to hear him again before the dances, may do so on Saturday night
in Charlotte.

The whole College fell short of the goal of one dollar a man by a dime each. This sum is
for the buying of medical equipment, which Mr. Worth intends to use in his work. Mr. Worth will purchase the
equipment in Shanghai with the advice of several doctors familiar with the situation in that country. He will return to
China early in the summer.

Barrow, Cline, Covington, Clark, Peters, Port, Dade, and Wilson Initiated

Dr. T. W. Lingle Made Director Of World Caravan Guild

The Red and BlackMasquers initiated Jerry, and make-up at twelve o'clock, over station WEAF, presenting "Lads Sar Chee" by Ril
Sera Societe, featuring eight talented actors of the campus. The Bee is considering joining the state dramatic association of North
Carolina. Dr. Thomas W. Lingle, professor of Christian Literature, has been making numerous records for the Brunswick recorders, played at
such hotel spots as the Cocoanut Grove in Galveston, and in Hollywood. Dr. Lingle has traveled widely, having recently returned
from his thirteenth trip to Europe, during which he made friends among the nations.

Tuesday night, January 14th, at its regular meeting held in the Social Center at 9 o'clock, the World Caravan Guild
in Charlotte initiated new members. The men who became members were as follows: Wade Barrow of Denver, Colo.; "Sky" Cline
of Concord, N.C.; O.M. Covington of Wadesboro, N.C.; Harl Clark of Hamlet, N.C.; R.L. Hees of Winston-Salem, N.C.; Fitzhugh McDade
of Henderson, Ky.; and Jimmie Wilson of Lake City, Fla. Leading parts were taken by Wade Barrow, Joe Dees, and
Mrs. Grier Martin.

The purpose of the World Caravan Guild, as announced yesterday by Miss Freeman, is to study foreign countries intimately and
discuss national and international affairs. Meetings will be held semi-monthly. At intervals, world travel celebrities will appear in person before
the guild and tell of their experiences.

Sixteen members of the junior and senior classes were issued bids to the International Relations Club, Saturday, January 11th. These
men are as follows: John D. Allen, Louisville, Kentucky; Martin Barnett, Meridian, Mississippi; Bill Benfield, Sinks Grove, West Virginia; Lewis
Bulwinkle, Gastonia, N.C.; Joe Dees, Greensboro, N.C.; Dan Griffin, Meridian, Mississippi; Joe Johnston, Barium Springs, N.C.; Prosser Morrow, West Point,
Georgia; Hal Overton, Greensboro, N.C.; Russell Patterson, Trenton, Tennessee; Gibson Smith, Charlotte, N.C.; Bob Stewart, Montgomery, Alabama; John Walker, Steele
Creek, N.C.; John Winn, Greenville, S.C.; and Ed Wooten, Chattanooga, Tennessee.

The International Relations Club is a national student organization for the purpose of studying and discussing current events and problems
of national and international scope. The club was organized under the auspices of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace. The
local chapter was established on the campus in November 1914.

Davidson College inaugurated its second program of the year 1936 last Friday night. The broadcast brought a program of marches
by the world’s outstanding composers in this field. In addition, the Davidson College quartette sang two spirituals. In the absence
of James Christian Pfohl, director of music, who was attending the meeting of the National Bandmasters Association in Champaign, Illinois,
A. Moreland Cunningham, assistant director, led the Davidson College sixty-piece band in this program of marches.

The Rev. H.W. Dubose, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Spartanburg, S.C., spoke at the regular evening vesper service
last Sunday night. The Rev. Dubose read for the scripture, Matthew 12:33-50, and took his sermon from the verses 43-45.
He described this story of the haunted house as the weirdest story Jesus ever told. Rev. Dubose said that Jesus
was not teaching that there are haunted houses, but he is merely using a vivid figure of speech. He is
taking a popular belief and making it the vehicle of a great truth. The pastor said that this story is
to teach us four things. It is first to teach us that we must live our lives here in this
world among evil spirits. Life is a fight; those who do not know it, surrender before it begins. The second
purpose of this story is to teach us that however hard it may be to put sin out of our
lives, it will be a good deal harder to keep it out. Sin sneaks back when you aren't looking for
it. It will be harder to put it out the second time than before. The third purpose of this story
is to teach us and impress upon us this important fact: that an empty life is a standing invitation for
the devil to come in and take charge. The fourth thing that this story teaches us is that our Lord
would teach us that the only way to keep sin out of our life is to let God in. He
never mentioned negative goodness; he always taught positive goodness.
