THE REVEREND W. M. ELLIOTT TO CONDUCT FALL SERVICES

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA

"Che Davidsonian

LIBERTAS

REPUBLICAN AND DEMOCRATIC SPEAKERS ADDRESS STUDENTS

VOL. XXIV DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., OCTOBER 28, 1936 NO. 6

O. D. K. HONORS NINE MEN TODAY

WALTER P. MURPHY TALKS AT DAVIDSON

Prominent Salisbury Statesman Approves Present System of Government

The Hon. Walter (Pete) Murphy, prominent Salisbury leader, addressed a group of interested students, faculty members, and friends of Davidson
College in Chambers Auditorium, last night, Oct. 27. Mr. Murphy is a venerable member of the State Legislature and a
veteran political enthusiast. By barrage of campaign propaganda, spread by student managers and their artful bosses, Mr. Murphy concluded the
rally with a timely address upon the responsibility of maintaining the precepts and "supreme law of our land."

Pictured above is the Rev. W. M. Elliott, of Atlanta, who will speak for the Y. M. C. A. fall
services.

Representing his lightfully unrestrained yet august bearing, Mr. Murphy outlined the strain underlying American ideal of government, and explained how
the British system had expanded its scope. Mr. Murphy traced briefly the history of the two principal political contingencies in
the forthcoming election, pointing out the principles which each originally and basically represent. Mr. Murphy cautioned his audience to consider
well the issues involved in maintaining the type of government to which this country may most assuredly look in expecting
a fulfillment of the true ideals of democracy. The speaker concluded by stating that the election carries with it ramifications
of historical value and importance.

He discussed the results of the coming election of our national president on the country as a whole and particularly
its effects on North Carolina. Mr. Murphy is an ardent admirer of Davidson, and has followed its record and achievement.
He expressed highest regards for its gridiron achievements of this season.

THE "Y" FALL SERVICES BEGIN WITH EXERCISES ON TUESDAY MORNING

Six Addresses to Be Delivered By Elliott During Three-Day Period

The annual Y. M. C. A. Fall Services will begin Tuesday morning, November 3rd, with the Rev. William M. Elliott,
Jr., pastor of Druid Hills Presbyterian Church of Atlanta, Ga., as speaker.

The series of services will run for three days, and will be composed of six addresses, three at the regular
morning chapel hour, and three at night. Night services will begin promptly at 7 o'clock.

Mr. Elliott is an honor graduate of Park College, just out of Kansas City, Mo. While a student there he
took an active part in all activities, especially in the glee club, dramatics, and debating. Then he went to the
Louisville, (Ky.) Seminary, where, while a student, he was assistant pastor at the Second Presbyterian Church in Louisville. Elliott won
two fellowships from the Seminary and went to the University of Edinburgh to start on his Ph.D. degree. However, he
was forced to return to America before he could complete all the requirements. This summer he went back to Edinburgh
to complete his residence requirements, but as yet he has not finished his degree.

On his return from studying at Edinburgh, Elliott returned to the college. The year after he had begun to teach
he was called to the Fifth Avenue Church in Knoxville, where he held the pastorate for five years. In June
of last year he accepted the call to the Druid Hills Presbyterian Church, where he is now pastor.

As has been previously stated, Elliott has taken great interest in young people’s work ever since he began his ministry.
For two years he was the vesper speaker at the Young People’s Conference of the Synod of North Carolina at
Davidson. He has held services at Queens-Chicora, Flora Macdonald, and Mitchell Colleges as well as at other schools elsewhere.

Mr. Elliott is married and has two children, one aged five and the other aged two. Any boy who wishes
a personal interview with Mr. Elliott may have one by seeing Ken Scott, who will make the necessary arrangements for
him.

NCCPA HOLDS 32ND MEETING AT CHARLOTTE

Delegates From Fourteen Colleges Register at Hotel Charlotte

DAVIDSON PAPER HOST

Prominent Newspaper Men Speak to Delegates

The North Carolina Collegiate Press Association held its 32nd annual conference in Charlotte, where it was entertained by The Davidsonian
and Davidson College. The conference was officially opened last Friday morning at a business meeting. On Thursday evening, October 22,
the delegates from the fourteen colleges who are members registered at the Hotel Charlotte. Later an informal tea was given
and the delegates were welcomed by Fred Smith, alumni secretary and director of publicity here.

The first official meeting was held Friday morning at 9 o’clock. Several committees were appointed at this time and many
business matters discussed. The meeting adjourned into groups which were addressed by prominent newspaper and printing company officials of the
state. Mr. J. E. Dowd, of The Charlotte News, Mr. A. M. Edwards, editor of the magazines, and Broughton Beck
of Engraving Company, of Raleigh, spoke to the editors. The business managers and the annual editors were addressed by prominent
newspaper and printing company officials.

DR. EDGAR GAMMON IS GUEST SPEAKER AT SUNDAY SERVICE

Compares Judas’ Downfall With Everyone’s Natural Inclinations

Dr. Edgar Gammon, pastor of the Myers Park Presbyterian Church of Charlotte, was the guest speaker at the evening service
held in the College Auditorium, last Sunday. Taking his text from John 18:5, Dr. Gammon showed the congregation the steps
which finally led Judas to commit the terrible sin of betraying his Lord. He showed how Judas’ life was a
good example of what small sins can lead to. He had but one vice, the love of money, and he
could not conquer it. He failed and in the words of the speaker: “It is hard to see anyone fail
in anything, but (Continued on Page 6)

‘D’ Club To Sponsor Banquet and Dance

Reviving a tradition which has been allowed to lapse in recent years, the “D” Club will sponsor a banquet to
be given in appreciation of the efforts of the members of this year’s football team. The banquet will be held
in Chambers auditorium as soon as convenient after the Thanksgiving day game, probably some night during the next week.

Through the co-operation of Mr. Shepard and Mr. Jackson arrangements are rapidly being completed. Features of the program will be
the presence of many distinguished athletes, coaches, and fans; the presentation of “D” certificates to meritorious members of the football
team; music by Chubby King and his orchestra; and the lavish athletic decorations in the banquet hall.

The “D” Club is also planning to sponsor a dance after the Wake Forest game in co-operation with the Pan-Hellenic
Council. Arrangements are pending but in all probability there will be a “D” Club figure.

LECTURES COMMITTEE ANNOUNCES SPEAKERS

Prominent University Scholars To Be Presented in Lecture Series

The Committee of Public Lectures has arranged forThree speakers are scheduled to appear at the end of February, and tentative
plans have been made for another, according to Dr. Edwin F. Shewmake. Dr. George Rommert of the Biologisches Laboratories, Munich,
Germany, will present his lecture “The Micro-Vivarium” in Chambers Auditorium on December 15. Dr. Rommert has attracted considerable attention by
his method of presenting microscopic life. He uses no films nor slides but shows actual specimens magnified and thrown upon
a screen. He has worked on perfecting his method at various colleges and universities throughout the United States and Europe.
Dr. Rommert was formerly a professor at Teachers’ College, Columbia University, and was the founder and director of “The Micro-Vivarium”
in the Hall of Science at the Chicago World’s Fair. For years, he has presented it at various institutions.

Next, Dr. Marsh W. White, Professor of Physics at Penn State College, will lecture in Chambers on February 1, and
the following day he will lecture before the science department. The subjects have not been announced. Following Dr. White, Dr.
Austin Prodoehl of the German Department of Birmingham Southern College will speak.

COLLEGE PLANS GALA PROGRAM FOR N.C. GAME

Between three and four hundred alumni are expected for the banquet.

DANCE SET IS FEATURE

Marks the first part of the Centennial Celebration

All Davidson football games have always been noted for their color, but in the Homecoming game with the University of
North Carolina, Davidson College will outdo herself. All plans point toward this game being the most colorful ever played on
Richardson Field. The Homecoming celebration will start Saturday morning at 10 o’clock when Professor James Christian Pfohl, of the college
music department, leads the 60-piece band in a 30-minute concert. At 12:30, the Alumni Luncheon will be held in the
banquet hall in Chambers building. W. Burney Thomas, president of the Alumni Association, will preside. There will be three speakers,
instead of the previously scheduled one. Each will make brief 5-minute talks emphasizing the following points: What Davidson has accomplished
in her first century of service; What Davidson needs to carry over into her second century; and What Davidson must
do to become a better college.

MASQUERS TO GIVE SHAKESPEARE PLAY IN SINGLE ACT UNIT

Director Bill McIlwaine condenses full-length comedy into a playlet.

In “A Midsummer Night's Dream,” Shakespeare wrote a play to be appreciated by everyone. He pleased lords and ladies in
the court but did not forget the rabble in the streets.

Roosevelt Wins Straw Vote Over Landon By 3-1 Margin

President Receives 414 Ballots To 139 For Republican Candidate

In accordance with the unusual interest exhibited lately over the presidential campaigns, The Davidsonian recently conducted a poll among the
students and faculty members as to their choice of the presidential nominees—Roosevelt, Landon, Thomas, Browder, Lemke, Colvin, or Aiken. Out
of a student body of six hundred and sixty-five, there was a return of five hundred and eighty votes. This
balloting represented approximately twenty-three states, the District of Columbia, Mexico, China, and Korea. Thirty-four of the fifty ballots sent out
to faculty members were returned.

Roosevelt continued to lead over his opponent, Landon, by a substantial margin. North Carolina, casting the largest vote, gave President
Roosevelt 120 votes to 62 for Governor Landon. Mississippi, with flying colors, cast its entire vote for the President, while
its rival, South Carolina, gave him a lead of 37 to 8. Louisiana and Texas broke away from the “Solid
South,” Louisiana giving Landon a 2-1 margin and Texas’ vote resulting in a 3-3 tie. Other Southern states, true to
tradition and party, gave Roosevelt a substantial margin. The border state of West Virginia gave the President a lead of
3 to 1. The final tally was Roosevelt 414; Landon 139; Thomas 35; Browder 2; Lemke 2; and Aiken 1.

Of much interest was the element of the faculty vote, which gave Roosevelt 14 votes, Landon 12, and Thomas 1.
The President carried the seven votes of the administrative offices, bringing his total up to 21 votes.

Omicron Delta Kappa Initiation To Be Held

The Delta chapter of Omicron Delta Kappa, a national honorary leadership fraternity, will hold the fall initiation and banquet in
Chambers, Friday, November 6. O.D.K. alumni and faculty members are invited to attend. The initiation of the nine new members,
which will take place in the faculty room in Chambers Building, will begin at five o'clock, followed immediately by the
banquet. Any alumni who expect to attend are requested to get in touch with Jim Morton as soon as possible.

PAN-HELLENIC COUNCIL COMPLETES PLANS FOR HOMECOMING DANCES

Dances to be held Friday and Saturday of Homecoming in Charlotte Armory

The Pan-Hellenic Council has completed the plans for the Homecoming set of dances to be held in the Charlotte Armory
Friday and Saturday, November 6 and 7. The Friday night dance will be formal and will last from 9 P.M.
to 1 A.M., with an intermission from 11 to 11:30 P.M. The Saturday night informal dance will be held from
8 to 12 P.M., with a 15-minute intermission from 10:45 to 11 o'clock. The deadline for the sale of these
set tickets is placed at 1 P.M., Friday, November 6. At the formal dance on Friday night, there will be
a figure composed of Pan-Hellenic members and their dates, as well as representatives from each class. Decorations, though not disclosed,
promise to be very attractive.

BIDS ARE EXTENDED TO SENIORS AT FALL TAP DAY EXERCISES

Tap Abernethy, Armfield, Branch, Hunter, Johnston, Overton, Port, Quick, and Sugg

EDWARDS WIELDS GAVEL

One of O.D.K. Founders, Mr. Tom Glasgow, Delivers Address

Wednesday morning at a lengthened chapel period, members of the Omicron Delta Kappa honorary fraternity tapped nine students, signifying that
they had been selected for membership, and brought these students to the platform amid a roar of applause. Those tapped
were John K. Abernethy, Winter Haven, Fla.; Edward Jack E. Armfield, Asheboro; M. Branch, Washington, D.C.; Joseph Hunter, Charlotte; James
Johnston, Winston-Salem; Tyler Overton, Greensboro; Clifford C. Quick, Charlotte; and Harold G. Sugg, Greenville. Wilbur Edwards presided, and Professor Currie
introduced the speaker, Mr. Tom Glasgow of Charlotte. Mr. Glasgow was one of the founders of O.D.K. at Washington and
Lee University in 1914. The Omicron Delta Kappa fraternity is made up of students who have been recognized for their
leadership and conspicuous service to the student body, and to be made a member is the highest honor, in this
phase, that a student can obtain.

Abernethy is a member of the Pi Kappa Alpha social fraternity and its president, editor of “The Quips and Cranks,”
a member of the Photographic Club, and president of the Publications Board. Armfield is a member of the Sigma Alpha
Epsilon social fraternity, president of the Pan-Hellenic Council, and an alternate football captain. Branch is a member of the Beta
Theta Pi social fraternity, president of the German Club, and a member of the Student Council. Hunter is a member
of the Kappa Sigma social fraternity, president of the YMCA, and a member of the Student Council. Johnston is a
member of the Phi Delta Theta social fraternity, president of the Junior Class, and a member of the Student Council.
Overton is a member of the Kappa Alpha social fraternity, president of the Senior Class, and a member of the
Student Council. Quick is a member of the Sigma Chi social fraternity, president of the Interfraternity Council, and a member
of the Student Council. Sugg is a member of the Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity, president of the Student Body,
and a member of the Student Council.

DAVIDSON MEN MAKE RHODES APPLICATIONS

The committee appointed to select applicants for the Rhodes Scholarships has announced that the applications must be in by November
7. The committee will select the best applicants from each state and district, and these will be sent to the
district committees. The district committees will then select the final candidates. There are 32 scholarships available each year. The committee
consists of able speakers among the students. Due to the fact that a Davidson student, Carleton Chapman, was successful in
winning one of these scholarships last year, the Student Body has shown a great interest in the competition this year.
