THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 30, 1936

R. O. T. C. OFFICERS STAND HIGH AT CAMP
Davidson Seniors Against Stiff Competition in Military Trials

MACHINE GUNNERS WIN
Scott, Peabody, Qualify as Expert Marksmen

The bright spot of this summer for 37 Davidson R. O. T. C. cadets was the Summer Infantry Camp at
McClellan, Ala., from June 7 to July 18. These cadets attended the senior officers' year training camp. Captain Roy S.
Bigham attended the chemical warfare camp at Edgewood Arsenal, Maryland. This camp comprised the senior units from the Fourth Corps
area, which include units from the University of Alabama, University of Florida, Georgia Tech, University of Georgia, L. S. U.,
Mississippi State, N. C. State, P. C., Wofford, Tennessee, Davidson, Clemson, and The Citadel. Some of these schools had units
of eighty, ninety, or a hundred men. Considering this, that Davidson had very stiff competition was the opinion of officers
here.

Davidson put up a good showing in most phases of camp activities. Three men qualified as expert marksmen, three as
sharpshooters, and fourteen as marksmen. Experts were Scott, who shot a 231 score out of a possible 250, and Peabody
with a 225. Sharpshooters were Russell Patterson, Hunter, and Harmon Woodyard.

Davidson entered platoon close order drill against The Citadel and Clemson, putting up a most creditable exhibition, so close that
less than two points separated the winners. Cadet James R. McClellan, Jr. (Capt., Company A) commanded the Davidson unit and
was unanimously voted the most outstanding platoon commander.

In the military field meet Davidson showed up exceedingly well, leading all units in the first part, holding a safe
third in the end. Davidson won event No. 1, the machine gun competition, in 55.3 seconds. Members of the team
were Gladden, Hunter, and Peabody.

The camp was organized into companies, of which Major Seifert was Executive Officer, Company B. This company won the baseball
competition with 833 points. Two publications circulated at camp, one, the camp section of the Anniston (Ala.) Star, a regular
home newspaper, the other was a mimeographed paper entitled the “Ricochet,” put out by several cadets. An article by Hal
Overton appeared in the former paper, graphically describing the hardships of the first day on the rifle range for Private
Guard. The latter paper contained the daily news and gossip of the camp.

Conrad Frederick Smith, new Alumni Secretary, recently appointed to fill the vacancy left by Grier Martin.

DEBATE WORK WILL START NEXT WEEK

Preliminaries toward getting the 1936-37 debate season under way will begin next week, announces Harold Sugg, president of the forensic
council. Actual tryouts for the varsity team will not be held until the latter part of October, however. Freshmen tryouts
will follow in the first part of November.

The council plans to schedule more radio debates for the new season. Home debates will be taken to some nearby
school or city auditorium. It is probable that only one forensic match will be held on the College campus.

It is hoped this year to give better training to freshmen aspirants. A separate manager is to be appointed, and
a better schedule arranged. Of last year’s varsity team, five members are returning: Wilbur Edwards, Tyler Port, Wade Boggs, Harold
Sugg, and Bob Stuart. All of these are seniors and all have had two years of varsity experience, except Stuart
with one.

Subjects have not yet been chosen. Schedules and tryouts are in charge of Bob Stuart, varsity manager. Dr. C. K.
Brown will continue as debate coach.

Among the GREEKS

Beta Theta Pi: John Winn represented the Davidson chapter at the National Convention held at the Edgewater Gulf Hotel, Gulfport,
Miss. William Bradburn, a Beta at Tulane, and Ed Morrow, from the University of Florida, have transferred to Davidson this
year and are affiliated with the local chapter.

Mr. and Mrs. McGavock stopped over at Davidson on their way to Princeton, where Mr. McGavock will do graduate work
this winter. Mr. McGavock was a professor of mathematics in Davidson last year.

Mr. and Mrs. L. R. Smith had as their guest the past week Miss Josephine Worth, formerly of Davidson, now
of New York.

Mrs. W. N. Mebane entertained at bridge for Mr. and Mrs. McGavock on Saturday evening. Mr. McGavock was also honored
by Mrs. Heath Whittle Saturday morning.

The following Davidson girls have entered various colleges: Dot Richardson, Duke; Glasgow, Ray Richardson, Duke; Glasgow, and others.

IS ANYTHING WRONG? STOP HAVE BEEN WORRIED SICK STOP HAVE HAD NO WORD FOR TWO WHOLE WEEKS STOP WIRE IMMEDIATELY
IF ANYTHING THE MATTER STOP. I LOVE YOU. LOVE.

Intra-mural football games will commence next week with the seniors battling the freshmen in the first encounter. Next week’s schedule
for the games is as follows:

Monday—Seniors vs. Freshmen
Tuesday—Juniors vs. Sophomores
Wednesday—Seniors vs. Sophomores
Thursday—Juniors vs. Freshmen

Cheer Leader

The presidents of the three upper classes will meet and post their names some time this week.

U. OF WIS. RECOGNIZED BY FRENCH OFFICIALS

Madison, Wis.—In recognition of the high standards maintained at the University of Wisconsin Maison Francaise, the oldest organization of its
kind in the United States, the French government has authorized a gift to the house of 6300 francs ($315). Rene
Weiller, French consul at Chicago who was instrumental in obtaining the award, declared the Wisconsin society the best French-speaking group
he had seen in his years in the United States.

CAR FOR RENT
Cheap Rates . . Good Service
—See—
BILL BUSBY
At College Pharmacy

BUFF SHOE SHOP
When It’s Done By Buff That’s Enuff

Tate-Brown Co.
College Shop — Third Floor

Welcome Freshmen
Four Out of Five College Men Come To JOHNSTON’S BARBER SHOP

M. H. GOODRUM & CO.

Approximately 100 Students Will Receive Aid From Government

MORE MONEY AWARDEDBulwinkle, Bill Coffin, and Tom Ross, members of the class of '36, visited the chapter last week. A
report from the Youth Administration at Davidson College mentioned Jim Hodgin, Blanton Little, and Bill Snow, alumni members of the
chapter, who visited here last weekend. D. R. McEachern has transferred to North Carolina State College.

Worth Sprunt, who attended Davidson the year before last and was initiated at that time, has returned from the University
of Virginia where he had affiliated with Lambda chapter. Johnny Sadler and Bob Downie have returned to school after being
out one semester.

Visiting alumni at the house Sunday night included Addison Brenizer, Jack Hellinger, Buddy Newton, and Claude Freeman. Max Britain and
Norman McCullough did not return this fall.

Bill Higgins spent the summer touring Europe. Bill Hill made a motor trip to California this summer and on his
return trip stopped in Dallas to visit the Texas Centennial. The chapter joined with the Greensboro alumni in a dinner
party Saturday night before the game.

Dan Cassel has transferred this fall to the University of Southern California; Bill Deyerle is at the University of Virginia
Medical School; Bobby Burgess is attending Presbyterian College. Bill Yelverton and Ken Long did not return this fall. Visiting alumni
at the house included Chink Thompson, John Boyd, Heath Howie, Duncan Hunter, and Van Patterson.

Joe McNabb, a member of the chapter last year, returned to the chapter last weekend and attended the Duke-Davidson game
in Greensboro. Irving Bull has transferred to Georgia Tech this year. Reid returned last Wednesday after spending the summer in
Europe.

Johnston and Elizabeth Shewmake are at Carolina; Goudyloch Erwin and Margaret Douglas at Agnes Scott; Mary Louise Moffett at Converse;
Rachel Raymer at William and Mary Extension; Miriam Goodrum and Mary C. Withers at W.C.U.N.C.

Dr. A graduate of Davidson, has located in Davidson to practice medicine. He finished his study at the School of
Medicine in Charleston. William Howard Jetton, alumnus of Davidson, has been visiting his parents, Mr. and Mrs. W. A. Jetton,
for two weeks. William Howard is working for the Universal Credit Company in Charlotte.

The Twentieth Century Club met September 18, with Mrs. Ernest Beaty. The program for the afternoon was “Classics.” Mrs. Beaty
read an interesting paper introducing the subject. Mr. Nelson Pfohl, father of Louise Nelson, has been visiting for several days.

Miss Anne Fairly of Missouri, Miss Lillian Hassell of Atlanta, and Miss Richmond Howell of Richmond visited with the Hibernia
family during the past week.

Dr. Chester, connected with the Department of the University of Chicago, visited Davidson recently.

The Intermediate League, a newly formed young people’s group at Davidson Presbyterian Church, held a meeting Sunday. The president of
the group is Margaret Williams.

With the Pen That Students Rate Highest

VOTED BY ACTUAL TEST

Invented by a College Professor to Bring You Higher Grades

A college professor noticed that your grades are often due not to brains running low but to pens running dry!
So he worked out an utterly different and basically better pen principle. S. Parker engineered it to perfection. Thus came
the revolutionary Parker sacless Vacumatic that has superseded every old-style pen—both sac-type and sacless.

Recently, student editors of 30 college papers asked 4,699 of their readers, "Which make of pen do you own? Which
pen do you prefer?" To both questions, more students answered "Parker" than any other two makes of pens combined!

One reason is that the Vacumatic ink supply is ever-visible, the entire barrel. It isn’t merely last-drop visibility—it shows you
ahead when it’s running low, so it can’t run dry against your will. The Vacumatic’s working parts are sealed in
a way where ink can never touch them—can never decompose them. That’s why this marvel is guaranteed mechanically perfect. And
the Parker Vacumatic has no lever filler—hence no rubber ink sac or piston pump.

FACULTY IS CHANGED FOR COMING SESSION

Shephard, MacDonald, Ballard, Patton Join Staff; Schenck Leaves

COCHRAN TRANSFERRED

Kimbrough, McGavock, Goldiere, Bailey Swap

Wilbur S. Edwards, president of the Student Body for the term of '36-'37, was inaugurated last spring.

Dr. J.G. Cochran, who has been with the faculty during the past year, has been transferred. He is a graduate
of Wesleyan University with an A.B. and M.A.

In the mathematics department, Mr. John T. Kimbrough, a graduate of Duke University, has joined the staff. He replaces Professor
William G. McGavock, who temporarily filled the position. Mr. Kimbrough earned his degree at the University of North Carolina and
did his graduate work at Carnegie Institute of Technology.

GREEK FRATERNITY SEASON ENDS

Pledging Ceremonies Held on Monday Night

The Greek fraternities on the campus have been busy the last month. Early reports from the fraternities indicate that the
pledging ceremonies were held at nine o'clock when the day ended Monday. However, a complete list will appear in The
Davidsonian next week.

WELCOME FRESHMEN

Everything That’s Good to Eat

$5.75 Meal Tickets For $5.00

(Less than actual cost)
