THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 22, 1936

“Don’t Shove!” Is Slogan As Registration Closes

Hengeveld’s Office Is Packed

Throughout Hectic Week

425 ARE REGISTERED

Only 100 Vacancies Left in Class of 1940

By Bill

“Hey, take it easy there, I’m next in line.” “Doggone it, I can’t take that Eco course next year.”

Thus students thronged Mr. Hengeveld’s office to register for the coming college year.

Dr. Gwynn stated that the future of education lies in the ability of youth to overcome challenges.

FROSH TENNIS

The Frosh seem determined to defeat Winston-...

AMONG THE GREEKS

PHI DELTA THETA — Miss Nancy Brown and alumni brothers Don Leslie and John Newton were guests. Alumni brothers Ad
Smith and Tom Breeden attended the dance at the Hotel Charlotte. John Aller was called to Louisville, KY due to
the serious illness of his father. The regular Sunday meeting was held.

SIGMA PHI EPSILON — Wiley attended his home in Whitfield. The regular Sunday night meeting was held.

CLEAN — CORRECT CARS

NORTON’S

For Rent

GULF GAS AND OIL

20 Years Experience With Davidson Men

M. P. Henderson

WED.-THU.

Sirens shriek a song of love in the Big House!

“ONE WAY TICKET”

Peggy Conklin—Lloyd Nolan

Walter Connolly

FRI.-SAT.

TIM McCOY

“ROARING GUNS”

Tailspin Tommy

LATE OWL SHOW

Saturday Night—10:45 P. M.

“ESCAPE FROM DEVIL'S ISLAND”

MON.-TUE.

Two men defy the terrors of the French penal colony for the woman only one can have!

“ESCAPE FROM DEVIL’S ISLAND”

Norman Foster—Victor Jory

Florence Rice

SERMON GIVEN BY MARSHALL

Atlanta Minister Speaks on “Under Sealed Orders” at Vesper Service

The Reverend Peter Marshall was the guest minister at the Vespers Services, last Sunday evening, April 19. His topic was:
“Under Sealed Orders,” and text taken from Hebrews 11:8 and Psalm 31:14-15. Mr. Marshall was the speaker at the evangelistic
services last fall under the auspices of the Y. His meetings were well attended. His texts were: “And Abraham went
out, not knowing whither he went,” and “But I trusted in thee, O Lord, I said, ‘Thou art my God,
my times are in thy hand’.”

Everybody, and especially young people, is going out “not knowing whither” he goes. We cannot even remotely guess what the
morrow may bring. We must face each new day, as Abraham did, not knowing what is going to happen, but
facing it in faith and obedience. We are going into a greatly changing world, and can have no way of
knowing where we may be led in our life work. This thought might be discouraging, if it were not for
the assurance given us in the second text, “But I trusted in thee, O Lord, I said, ‘Thou art my
God, my times are in thy hand’.” This shows us we must face life and its uncertainties with confidence and
faith alone. “Take a Pilot on board who knows the orders which are sealed from you; who knows the shoals
in the sea with which you are unfamiliar. Let Him take the wheel in His nail-scarred hands, and guide your
life.”

Sunday School Class Elects New Officers

The student Sunday School class of Davidson College held its annual election of officers for the coming year on Sunday,
April 19. Those elected to the various offices of the class were as follows: Bancroft F. Moseley, president; J. Marion
Bryant, vice-president; and Sam Webb, secretary and treasurer.The text has been cleaned up while preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

was opened for nominations and the following members were nominated: R. R. Purdy and M. Bryant, vice-president; and Sam Webb
and John A. Mawhinney, secretary and treasurer. L. F. Moseley, president; J. Bryant was the only one elected unanimously. The
newly elected officers will take charge of the class after May 3rd. Officers for the closing year were as follows:
C. A. Harper, Jr., president; W. D. Herring, vice-president; Bailey, secretary and treasurer. The Sunday School class meets each Sunday
morning at 10:15 A.M. in the Philanthropic Literary hall. Dr. C. K. Brown, the professor of economics, is the teacher
of the class.

FROSH TRACK TEAM (Continued from Page 4)

and Hipp tied for second in the high jump which Nisbet of P. J. C. won at 5 feet 2
inches. Nisbet scored 15 points to tie Harrison, with firsts in the high jump and the high hurdles, a second
in the 220-yard dash, and thirds in low hurdles and broad jump. The 120-yard high hurdles were timed at 18.5
with Friberg and Boyd placing second and third. The meet was the freshmen’s second win in two starts. Furman was
also defeated early in the season.

Organ Guild Meets

The North Carolina Chapter of the American Guild of Organists held a meeting on the Davidson campus last Friday. Dr.
W. L. Lingle, president of the college, made a welcoming address to the group at the opening of the meeting.
His speech was followed by a student recital in which organists of Meredith, Davidson, Greensboro, and North Carolina State Colleges
took part. Then the Davidson Glee Club and Band played a concert.

Cumming Back From Visit in Camden, S. C.

Dr. and Mrs. W. P. Cummings have returned from a visit in the home of Mr. Henry P. Kendal at
Camden, S. C. Mr. Kendal had invited Dr. Cummings to examine some new additions to his collection of “Caroliniana,” which
is the finest private collection of its kind, and contains many rare maps, early printed books, and original manuscript documents.

POOR HUBBY

“Dorothy is getting a man’s wages.” “Yes, I heard she was married.”

THE REASON ... ?

“It says the man was shot by his wife at close range.” “Then there must have been powder marks on
the body.” “Yes; that’s why she shot him.”

Lawrence asked to pay taxes

Former President A. Lowell of Harvard, was asked to pay $32,962 in back income taxes last week.

GOBBLERS WIN (Continued from Page 4)

points at the end. Harrison was high scorer for the Wildkittens, winning the 220-yard dash in 23.6 and the 220
low hurdles in 27.4. He also placed second in the hundred which was run in 10.6. Walker won both the
mile and half mile with times of 4:52 and 2:13. Woodward finished second in the two events and Patterson placed
third in the half. Abbott won the 440-yard dash in 54.8. Friberg scored third in the high hurdles, and Tice
placed third in the low hurdles. Warden won the shot put with a throw of 38 feet 9 inches. Miller
took second in the event. The freshmen gained scattered points in several other field events: McClelland, third in the javelin;
Warden, third in the discus; Tice, third in the broad jump. Charlie Sample tied with Douglass of V. P. I.
at 10 feet 9 inches in the pole vault. The Tech freshmen were the first to defeat the Wildkittens. The
Davidson team still has Presbyterian College, Wofford, and the State meet ahead of them.

Children who will be unsuccessful in later life can be spotted at the age of six, says Dr. J. W.
M. Rothney, of Harvard.

CHRIST NEEDS NEW LEADERS

Union Theological Seminary, Richmond, Virginia. (A Serial Advertisement)

To the Christian Students of Davidson College:

Every Christian should send out light, especially now. Christian business men should be as much “Christian” as “business.” The same
with men in all employments. The Master is looking for “little candles shining in the night, you in your small
corner, and I in mine,” but not at Davidson College—here, not even for 50-watt and 60-watt lamps. The present darkness
needs great light—He is looking for you, 1000-watt men, and 1,500-watt men. “Ye are the light of the world,” —not
“under a bushel, but on a candlestick.” Being privileged to attend Davidson College is like being set on a candlestick.
The candlestick, also the candle, are simply ornamental unless there is light. “Let your light so shine... that they may
see... and glorify your Father,” the source of your light. (To be continued in this space later) (If you would
like to see this entire series in one setting, write for a copy to Ben R. Lacy, Jr., President, Union
Theological Seminary).

50c VALUE... 29c SPECIAL VALUES CASCADE STATIONERY White Drug Store Davidson's Oldest and Best 75c VALUE... 49c

© 1936, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.

For downright goodness and taste... They Satisfy
