IONIAN, SEPTEMBER 23, 1936

NEW MEN ASSUME

COACH J. W. UNGER

(Continued from Page 5)
(Continued from Page 1)

served as head coach at Randolph-Macon, in Virginia. From the University of Michigan comes Mr. Thane MacDonald, assistant director of
Music. He has his master’s degree in music and was one of the artists on the Davidson Concert Series last
year as organist.

Professor L. B. Schenck, Associate Professor of Religious Education, is at Yale, completing the work for the degree of Doctor
of Philosophy. He has studied also at Davidson, Union Theological Seminary, and Princeton Theological Seminary.

Major F. M. Cochran, associated with the R.O.T.C. department here for the past six years, has been transferred by the
War Department to Fort Huachuca, Arizona. He is succeeded here by Major J. L. Ballard.

Mr. Avery Patton, graduate of Davidson in the class of 1933, will assist in chemistry this year. Since leaving Davidson
he has done graduate work at Tulane on a teaching fellowship.

DAVIDSON APPROACHES

(Continued from Page 1)

appointed: W. L. Lingle, chairman; F. L. Jackson, vice-chairman; A. L. Currie, C. M. Richards, T. W. Lingle, W. W.
Wood, F. K. Fleagle, C. K. Brown, E. A. Beaty, R. A. Dunn, H. W. McKay, Graham Lura Smith Litton,
a widow, who was employed in Charlotte.

At a meeting of the full committee, a small sub-committee was appointed and Mr. F. L. Jackson was made chairman
of that sub-committee.

SHEPPARD ASSUMES

(Continued from Page 1)

director, and coach, he turned out championship teams. As director and coach of three major sports, football, basketball, and baseball,
he brought the Randolph-Macon Athletic Association up to par with those of other schools. He made the question of where
several buildings should be located on the campus. Sketches of Davidson’s improvements can be prepared by alumni and friends of
Davidson College. At present, the college does not have the money to carry out any one of these items. The
object of the Centennial Movement is to bring out three or four championship teams in football, three in basketball, and
two in baseball. In addition to Davidson and at the University of North Carolina, Sheppard has done summer school work
at Notre Dame, University of Illinois, and Washington and Lee.

JACK BRANCH MADE

(Continued from Page 1)

Patterson, Jr., and Marshall C. Sanford. Probably there will be some changes made in these appointments. During the next thirty
days, there will be promotions in the ranks of corporals. The Unit this year has 179 Freshmen, 121 Sophomores, 41
Juniors, and 39 Seniors, making a unit of 380, which is about the same size as last year's. The Seniors
finishing military this year will receive commissions in the Reserve Officers Corps as second lieutenants.

Dr. Walter Lingle can be of large service and improvement by speaking for the College in season.

FOUR JUNIORS NAMED

(Continued from Page 1)

Cheerleader Vogler will lead the major college vote and the fourth will be elected in the run-off. There will be
further training in gymnastics and from the report are due to put on a neat show in leading the student
body. Vogler expressed appreciation for the support of the student body and hoped that it would continue throughout the year.

FIEDLER OPENS

(Continued from Page 1)

Mr. and Mrs. D. J. Fiedler, viola, organ, and player. Mr. Fiedler has a weekly broadcast with the "Sinfonietta" Sunday
evening from New York station WEEI, Boston. He conducted a series of concerts in Boston with an audience of a
thousand people.

DAVIS RENT A CAR FOR THE WEEK-END

M. P. Henderson
GULF GAS & OIL
Barber Shop
WELCOME FRESHMEN
SERVICE AT NO EXTRA COST

A. Beaty, professor of English, visited at Elizabethtown. Miss Angel, formerly of Winston-Salem, will appear in recital in the month
of April.

FACULTY INSTIGATE

(Continued from Page 1)

"home" are expecting great things of their boys and that, in many cases, caused great sacrifices on the part of
our parents.

Lingle Speaks

Again on Saturday morning, there was a meeting of the class. At the meeting, Dr. Walter Lingle gave an address
of welcome. Professor Fleagle of the faculty gave a fine talk.a greater talk on “Budgeting Your Time”: This was at
eight o’clock on Saturday evening, 8:00 P.M. Season tickets will go on sale soon, adults $3.00 and student tickets for
$2.00. Single admission for adults will be $1.00, and children 50c.

Sunday morning brought the freshmen their first experience with the religious life at Davidson. Almost the entire class attended the
morning services at the Presbyterian Church to hear a sermon by Dr. Moffatt. That evening at eight o'clock, Vespers were
led by Dr. Foreman, a popular member of Davidson’s faculty.

PROFESSORS RESUME (Continued from Page 1)

Dr. C. K. Brown, professor of economics, attended the Institute of Public Affairs at the University of Virginia this summer.
He returned to Davidson for his second year. Dr. John P. Williams, professor of business administration, and W. N. Mebane,
Jr., of the physics department, spent the summer with unusual success.

CAT-NIPS (Continued from Page 4)

Playing a wonderful game at the tailback position, Teeny Lafferty was running over half the time, passing and punting. Lafferty
was the real sparkplug of a powerful attack. Ed Armfield called a heady game and teamed with Corbin in some
good blocking and defensive play. Fred Dennis was a driving force backing up the center of the line and nearly
got away twice on sneaks over center. Thurston and Sears will bear watching as reserves.

It is interesting to note in comparison with some of our neighboring schools, in the starting line-up, eight men live
within 50 miles of the college and all eleven come from the Carolinas. We've got a real football team and,
whether they know it or not, State is really in for one hectic time on Saturday night. Football-hungry fans have
a real opportunity.

GET YOUR COLLEGE BEARING OFFICIAL SEAL CERTIFIED $2.00 VALUE ONLY 25¢ with the purchase of a bottle of Parker Quink
at 15c—Total 40c... YOU SAVE $1.75. This amazing offer is made solely to introduce Parker Quink—the miracle ink that cleans
your pen as it writes, and dries ON PAPER 31% faster than pen-clogging inks. Get Quink today from any store
selling ink.

Raymond Wolf. The Tarheels open the season with Wake Forest. N. C. State will have one of the best teams
in the conference this year, having a good backfield and a slow but powerful line. Berlenski, a fast-stepping back, can
work anywhere in the backfield. The Wolfpack, though rather slow, administered a 12-0 victory to Elon Saturday, and meets the
Wildcats this coming week at Raleigh.

"BIG FIVE GRID" (Continued from Page 4)

Wake Forest will have its best team in years when it opens its season against Carolina in the new Charlotte
stadium Saturday. Kitchin, though with an injured knee, will head a strong Deacon backfield. Parker and Hackney will be stars
in Duke's backfield. Duke, though a bit jittery, beat a scrappy Davidson team 13-0, and will meet the Colgate Red
Raiders, with their bag of trick plays, at their Homecoming on Saturday. Carolina's Tarheels, with only five of the regular
1935 team back, and most of its new players good but inexperienced, set forth on the 1936 season under the
new tutelage of Raymond Wolf.

WILDCATS SHOW (Continued from Page 4)

The ball went to Davidson on the Duke 23-yard line. Here, with Lafferty out of the game, Armfield attempted four
passes, gaining only two yards and the ball went to Duke on downs shortly before the game ended.

Have You Matriculated Yet, At Charlotte?

Well, it’s something every Davidson man does. Senior or Frosh, extrovert or introvert, blonde or dark, tall or short. He
establishes—or re-establishes—his at-homeness at HOTEL CHARLOTTE and its “Tavern,” every year; it’s an old Davidson custom. And why not, pray?
Where’s a better place to meet your date than in our Lobby? And where’s a better place for a college
man—maybe a temporarily-hard-up college man, to eat and foregather with his peers? And where’s a place that welcomes you more
heartily, likes more to have you around? If you haven’t been in this year we can tell you how we
feel about it in one word: HURRY!

For hundreds of years the Persians have known the secret of fine flavor. In the dead of night, a Persian
"melon-diviner" may wake up his wealthy master to enjoy the perfect melon—picked by lamplight at its exact moment of full
maturity. The Secret: Like the Persian melon, the Turkish tobaccos used in Chesterfield are watched day and night. There is
just one right time to take off the leaves...that’s when they have ripened to their fullest flavor. Often the tender
ripe leaves are gathered just before the dawn...to preserve their full “spice” and aroma for Chesterfield.

Chesterfields are made by Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co. From our own Southland we take mild, ripe tobaccos chock-full of
Southern sunshine; then we go 10,000 miles to the fertile shores of the Mediterranean for the fine flavor and aroma
of Turkish tobaccos. These tobaccos give Chesterfields their milder better taste.

Tear off the box-top and on the back write the FULL NAME of your school or college, ring size, and
style wanted (use man’s or woman’s), and your name and address. Mail box-top with 25 cents in coin to The
Parker Pen Co., Dept. 737, Janesville, Wis. Don't delay. This offer ends Dec. 31, 1936, if supply lasts.
