Duke Religion Students—Made Future Chaplains

“Chaplains of Veterans of Future Wars” Organized at N.C. University; Platform Includes Pep Talks, Sermons, Funeral Orations, Memorial Days

“The Chaplains of the Veterans of Future Wars” was organized recently among a group of students of the School of
Religion at Duke University, to serve the Veterans of Future Wars, an organization started at Princeton University. In a wire
sent to the Princeton headquarters of the national organization, the Duke organization applied for a charter and offered their services
to the VFW. The following platform was offered for the new organization:

1. To make pep talks to the Veterans of Future Wars in order that it may not take them so
long to realize the “truth” that they are doing “God's work" while murdering the enemy.
2. To preach sermons to the Veterans of Future Wars, so that their ideals may never fall below those of
Christ, as they blast, boom, and bayonet their Christian foes.
3. To start preaching funeral orations now so that those who, in spite of divine providence, are dismembered by cruel
enemies may hear of the “Christ-like service” they will have rendered. In this way, it will be possible to give
individual orations upon the virtues of dying for one’s country, even upon foreign soil. This is in preference to being
one of the wholesale lot that is dumped and covered over with only the phrase “poor devils” as oration and
epitaph.
4. To institute semi-annual memorial days for the Unknown Soldier, in which all Veterans of Future Wars will participate. Then
each may dream that he may be the one of whom such noble words are spoken and to whom such
reverence is given. An attempt will be made to secure a national politician to speak. In this way, the Veterans
of Future Wars may learn of the contribution to the progress of civilization that is made by the youth who
give their lives for “the cause” while the “statesmen” at home give their very life's blood sitting in swivel chairs
and complaining of the noise in the streets caused by unprecedented business.

W. J. Muneycutt was elected Chaplain-in-Chief at the meeting and Charles S. Jarvis was elected secretary. An intensive campaign for
the enlistment of members will begin immediately. Suggestions for prayers and hymns to aid in carrying out the organization's platform
were to be made at the next meeting. —Duke Chronicle.

Pessimism Is Shown By Columbia Seniors

New York—(ACP)—Columbia University seniors placed a lower estimate on their salaries five years after graduation than any other class during
the last fifteen years. They expected that in 1941 they will have an average salary of $2,235, compared with $3,000
for last year's class and $5,102 for the class of 1934. Only three expect $10,000 in five years.

This would indicate, according to those who conducted the poll, that the continuance of the business slump has lowered the
confidence of students in their future.

DANCERS FIGHT IN VAIN AT BAKER UNIVERSITY

Baldwin, Kan.—(ACP)—Students at Baker University here finally won a 42-year fight to permit school dances, banned since the university was
founded.

STUDENTS IMPRESSED BY WEAPONS DISPLAY

R.O.T.C. Members See Death-Dealers in Action

Cadet members of the local R.O.T.C. unit are thinking seriously of writing Uncle Sam and asking him to please refrain
from getting mixed up in another war. The conclusion was reached Monday afternoon following the usual drill on the golf
course watching advanced students and officers fire away at imaginary enemies. They have decided that war is all too bloody
an affair for them to be mixed up in. After the recent scare given Uncle Sam by the Future Veterans
he will no doubt be glad to hear that other students do not feel that they should be given the
privilege of spending their bonus before it is too late to do them any good. He might even put them
on relief for their vacation.

This decision will no doubt cause heavy hearts among the Future Profiteers and cool the ardor of the Future Gold
Star Mothers of Vassar. After witnessing Major Seifert firing three shells in the air at the same time and being
told how as high as two can be fired in like manner, the cadets have concluded that they do not
want to belong to the Reserve Officers Trained Corps.

ATTORNEY GENERAL'S TALK HEARD AT U.N.C.

Homer S. Cummings Speaks In Memorial Hall at Chapel Hill

Last week the Hon. Homer S. Cummings, Attorney General of the United States, spoke in Memorial Hall, Chapel Hill, to
a gathering of the students and faculty of the University of North Carolina. Cummings delivered the principal address of the
conference at the general session in the church, addressing members of the North Carolina Conference for Social Service, held at
the Trinity Methodist Church in Durham, beginning on Sunday morning, April 26, at 11 o'clock.

Other speakers at this meeting were Dr. F. Lowell Bixby, assistant director of the Bureau of Prisons in Washington, and
Dr. Malcolm McDermott of the Duke law school. A number of students from throughout the state attended the conference, in
whole or in part.

Dr. J. M. Douglas Goes To Academy Meeting

THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 6, 1936

LIBRARY SECURES NEW SHORT STORIES ALONG WITH OTHER VOLUMES

Biographical, Philosophical, And Musical Works Included in List

GROUP IS DIVERSIFIED

New Book on China Praised By Pearl Buck

Several new and interesting books have recently been added to the shelves of the Davidson Library. “The Bedside Book of
Famous American Stories” includes 67 stories by such authors as Hawthorne, Poe, James, O'Neill, Cather, Cabell, and many others. Anyone
who starts this book at page one and reads the stories in their proper sequence will be struck by their
extraordinary scope and varying moods and will observe with fascination the gradual but insistent quickening of tempo as they come
closer to the present day.

For those who love biography there is the life-story of Henry van Dyke, teacher, preacher, diplomat, dreamer, doer. It was
written by his son Tertius and gives a view of 80 years of American life from before the Civil War
to fifteen years after the World War.

All that need be said about Lin Yutang’s book, “My Country and My People” can be found in the introduction
by Pearl S. Buck. “The truest, the most profound, the most complete, the most important book yet written about China.
And, best of all, it is written by a Chinese, a modern whose roots are firmly in the past, but
whose rich flowering is in the present.”

“Man, the Unknown” was written by Alexis Carrel, surgeon, scientist, and winner of the Nobel Prize in 1912 for his
success in suturing blood vessels and the transplanting of organs.

(Continued on Page 6)

Among the GREEKS

Beta Theta Pi

Only three of the brothers were off the campus this weekend. Bob Atwater was in Wilmington for the weekend, Tom
Ross went to Concord, and Eddie Steere passed his time in Asheboro. The fraternity plans to hold its annual Spring
House Party on May 9 at the Red Fez Club eighteen miles south of Charlotte. All the brothers are looking
forward to an enjoyable weekend.

Pi Kappa Alpha

Brothers Jim Hodgin, John Moreton, and T. J. Turner spent the past weekend in Greensboro. Vance Kester, Bill Pierce, Hill
Snow, and Stanton Sherrod headed the same way but stopped for the weekend in High Point. Walt Dickson was away
in Salisbury for the weekend. Visiting with the fraternity on Sunday was Brother U. L. Smallridge. Brother Smallridge now lives
in Charleston, W. Va. "Sky" Cline, “Teeny” Lafferty, and D. R. McEachern were in Concord for the weekend. Dave MacMillan
enjoyed an outing at Marion, Va. this weekend, while Milton Crisp was at home in Welch, W. Va. Addison Long
spent the weekend in Statesville. Brother Bill Archer absented himself also. Jimmie Currie went to Raleigh this weekend. The fraternity
will cavort at its May Frolics on May 8 to the music of Sammy Small and his orchestra playing at
the Carolina Golf Club in Charlotte for the occasion. The dance Friday night, which is to be formal, will be
followed Saturday by more frivolity as yet indefinite.

Kappa Alpha

Brother Horace Lanz went galloping off to the Kentucky Derby at Louisville, Ky. this weekend. Bill Preyer spent his holiday
at his home in Greensboro. Also in Greensboro this weekend was Brother Roy Harris. Dick Taylor (Continued on Page 6)

POPULAR QUESTIONS DEBATED IN MEETING OF LITERARY SOCIETY

Philanthropians Discuss Continuation of Capital Punishment

NO DECISION REACHED

Harkey, Templeton, Lindsey, and McQueen Lead Discussion

The Philanthropic Literary Society held its regular weekly meeting Tuesday night, April 28, in the Philanthropic hall. The program for
the meeting was in the form of a debate. The subject of the debate was Resolved: That the United States
Should Continue the Use of Capital Punishment as a Means of Punishment. The affirmative was upheld by Henry L. Harkey
and John Y. Templeton, while the negative speakers were Richard W. Lindsey and David A. McQueen. Harkey based the argument
on the idea that society has the right to take a man’s life; that society is at times obliged to
take a man’s life; and that society is at times benefited by taking a man’s life. Templeton devoted his time
to refuting the arguments promoted by the negative.

The negative based their argument upon three points also. They said first that everybody has a certain amount of temper.
Temper is a form of insanity. Some men have more temper than others and hence go farther with their temper.
Since temper is a form of insanity, it is not the man’s own fault that he killed a person and
hence there is no reason for him to be killed. Secondly, the negative said that man has no right to
take life, since he has no power to create one. The negative further contended (Continued on Page 6)

A Letter From a Davidson Student of 1869 to His Friend, With a Description of the Faculty

Davidson College, N.C.
September 15, 1869.

Mr. Chris McLauchlin,

Dear Sir:

According to promise I seize my brass pen and dip it in my blue ink with the intention of scratching
you a few lines. Well sir, I am in the “College,” called “Davidson,” as “snug as a bug in a
rug.” Although this is a pretty considerable place to a country-born, backwoods green-horn like myself, yet it falls far short
of being such as was pictured by my imagination. New students are coming in every week and from the best
information IHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

have there are about 115 here now. After undergoing pretty rigid examination, I entered the Soph. class. I was examined
first by Prof. Anderson on English grammar, Ancient and Modern Geography, and Derivation of words. I stood pretty well on
English grammar, but “tell you what,” the old chap gave me particular fits when he came to Geography and Derivation
of words. I was examined by Prof. Richardson on Latin and Greek. I took an excellent examination on these studies—not
having missed but one word in each. Was finally examined by Prof. Phillips on Mathematics. He commenced in addition in
Arithmetic and kept ascending until he came to the 8th book in Davies’ Legendre. Of course, he didn’t make a
clean sweep, but it was a little cleaner than I expected, and the consequence was he rushed me a good
deal, especially in Arithmetic.

I hope it will not be considered anything amiss to give you a brief description of the Faculty of this
Institution. 1st, Pres. McPhail, is about 5 ft. 9 in. high, weighs about 140 pounds, has black hair, black eyes,
long whiskers, mustache ditto, intelligent forehead, very modest, dignified yet firm and decided, and very much liked by the law-abiding
students. 2nd, Prof. Blake is (taking a rough guess) about 5 ft. 9 1/4 in. high, weighs about 135 pounds
net, is as straight as a shingle, grey eyes, fair hair, whiskers ditto, being cut after the French style, an
earnest look, quick step, and is said to be the most eloquent and deepest man in the Faculty. 3rd, Prof.
Anderson is about the height of McPhail, weighs the same, maybe not quite as much, round shoulders, black hair, pretty
well sprinkled with grey, whiskers and mustache ditto, big mouth, shrill voice, pleasant countenance, an excellent flow of language, mentally
sharp as a needle point, and generally goes by the name of “Razor.” 4th, Prof. Richardson is about 5 ft.
10 in. high, weighs about 160 lbs., noble figure, black piercing eyes, black hair, whiskers and mustache, head partly bald.
“Esau”-like, has hairy hands. Would rather explain a difficult sentence than eat, never at a loss for words to express
himself. The finest-looking man in the whole “she-bang” and is better known among the students by the name of “Old
Dick.” Last, but not least, Prof. Phillips is (another rough guess) about 5 ft. 9 1/2 in. high, about 2
ft. 2 1/2 in. diameter, weighs somewhere between 200 and 400 lbs. net, mouth well proportioned to the size of
the man, rather thick lips with a kind of pucker to them which, you know, always makes a man look
independent. He is a man of great talents, cannot be beat in manner of communicating his ideas, very lively and
cheerful disposition, and stands rather higher in the estimation of nearly all the students than any of the profs.

John Steele, Bob Kush, Dugald, and myself belong to a club boarding ourselves. We get an old negro woman living
near the campus to do the cooking. We eat in one of the unoccupied rooms of the college. Can’t tell
yet exactly how much it will cost but don’t think it will cost more than $800. Several of the boys
are anxious to follow our example in this particular. Another club is about made up consisting of 10 students. Several
of the boys are trying to get into ours. Think three or four more.

“Chris,” please excuse the many mistakes in this scrawl, remembering it was done in haste. My love to all inquiring
friends especially to those of the feminine gender. An early reply will be anxiously looked-for by

Your friend,
COLIN A. M—

600,000 Youth Employed By National Administration, High Schools, Colleges, Graduate Institutions Helped; Keep Young Off Labor Market

Six hundred thousand young people between the ages of sixteen and twenty-five are employed by the National Youth Administration, of
which three hundred ninety thousand are in high schools, colleges, or graduate schools. The rest are on NYA work projects.
This information relating to the work done by the department was given at a recent session by Aubrey Williams, NYA
executive director. The wages run from six dollars to forty dollars per month. Declaring that the main objectives of the
NYA were to raise the morale and give relief to distressed youth, Mr. Williams said it had achieved those aims
for a large part of the group under its control; however, there are hundreds of thousands of young people outside
the administration who need the help and are not getting it. Other divisions of the NYA’s work are the camps
for unemployed girls held for periods of six to eight weeks and attended by three thousand one hundred girls. Also,
through the federal committee on apprentice training, some two thousand young people have been identified as apprentices in industry. One
point that was brought up at the conference was that the administration is also protecting these young people by keeping
them off the labor market and preventing their exploitation. These reports were made at an executive session of the NYA
in Washington.

Student Government Abolished at W. & L.

Norfolk, Va (ACP)—Student self-government, once the objective of many a hard-fought battle with the administration heads, is not so important
to American colleges today, and some observers profess to believe that lack of interest will finally cause it to die
out. The College of William and Mary, Norfolk division, is the latest to drop its governing body. The men’s Student
Senate resigned in a body recently, with the statement that

(Continued on Page 6)

---

WHAT THE CO-EDS THINK OF COLLEGE MEN

(By Associated Collegiate Press)

Chapel Hill, N. C.—Ben Neville, enterprising student at the University of North Carolina here recently set out to discover just
what college women think of college men. He found out, too: “College men are the most selfish and egotistical creatures
on earth!” screamed the questioned co-eds. “They get drunk too much, they lack respect for girls and older people, they
have no sense of responsibility for their social obligations.” Their table manners are “lousy” and they try to brag about
their dates to fraternity brothers. They are rude, insincere, disrespectful, inconsiderate, impolite, discourteous. From the University of Indiana comes the
opinion that “the most common failing of college boys occurs in fraternity houses after dates. There each boy openly and
rudely classifies each girl. Sometimes a girl doesn’t have a chance to live down a reputation after a boy has
branded her.”

During the weekend of April 24 and 25, Dr. J. M. Douglas attended the meeting of the Academy of Science
which was held at Duke University. On the first day, the Academy discussed problems in Physics and Biology. On the
second day, the different departments of the Academy were divided and each held separate meetings. The physics group, of which
Dr. Douglas was a member, discussed such subjects as: thermionic tubes; X-rays; the friction of falling bodies; and many other
topics brought up as the results of research. At the joint meeting on Friday, Dr. Porter, the retiring president, delivered
an excellent talk on Louis Agassiz. After the meetings were over, the Academy was shown the points of interest on
the Duke campus. The Medical School, the Forestry Department, the Flower Gardens, and the newly completed Engineering Building were some
of the places visited.

Hardware—Dry Goods
Radios and Radio Supplies
M. H. GOODRUM & CO.

Clean Careful BARBER SHOP
Let Alex Clean Your White Shoes

CANDIES
MOTHER’S DAY CARDS
SOUTHERN 5 & 10c STORE

PROMPT AND CHEERFUL SERVICE

---

OFFER IS ANNOUNCED IN COLLEGIATE DIGEST

Rotogravure Section Announces New Contest

Two important announcements of interest to students of Davidson College are found in today’s issue of Collegiate Digest, THE DAVIDSONIAN’S
weekly rotogravure section. In connection with an outstanding article on the “why of collegiate motion pictures,” the movie editor of
Collegiate Digest is offering a prize of $10 for the best letter offering constructive criticism or defense of the typical
collegiate motion pictures. This contest is open to both students and faculty members. A second prize of $5 is offered
for the runner-up in this contest. A beautiful sunset lake-scene photograph of full 8 by 10 inches size is free
to all students or faculty members of Davidson College who send in 10 cents in stamps or coin to cover
the cost of wrapping and postage. This is truly an outstanding offer, for the original photograph offered to our readers
is a beautiful piece of photography by Frederick W. Kaeser II, one of the outstanding young photographers. Requests should be
addressed to Collegiate Digest, P. O. Box 472, Madison, Wisconsin.

SYRACUSE STUDENTS

“G” Men Frown on Pranksters Who Mail Bomb to Chancellor

Syracuse, N. Y. (ACP)—Personal, if slightly informal, relations with a lot of G-men were enjoyed by twenty-five Syracuse University students
some time ago when the finger of the law identified them as the pranksters who had sent a fake bomb
to Chancellor Charles W. Flint. They were charged with disorderly conduct, and the post office department wired a note of
cheer from Washington, saying that Federal action might be taken. The tale begins with a group of architectural students sitting
around trying to think of something to do instead of studying architecture. Some bright lad thought of the bomb plot
and an infernal machine was immediately constructed from taped wires, cotton, dead dry cell batteries, cardboard tubes filled with sugar,
and an old alarm clock. Addressed to “Comrade Chancellor Charles W. Flint,” it was entrusted to the U.S. Mails, wherein
lay its undoing. An alert post office clerk, noting the horrendous “Comrade” salutation, called the authorities.

(Continued on Page 6)

---

Around the corner from anywhere

Whoever you are, whatever you do, you've got to pause. Stop a minute and let the life and sparkle of
ice-cold Coca-Cola give you a fresh start. Drink Coca-Cola. Delicious and Refreshing.

---

REMEMBER ... You Always Save at Belk Bros

SENNIT AND ESSMAN Straws $1.94

One of our groups of value leaders in new straws. Sennits in regular or long oval shapes. Essman Deflectos in
snap brim models. Exceptional values.

Men’s New Panamas—This year our stock of Panamas is more complete than ever before. There is no hat that will
afford you more genuine comfort and pleasure than a smart panama. We have the newest pinch front and optimo styles.

$2.45 $3.85 $4.85 $5.00

South American Panamas. Ecuadorian Panamas. Ecuadorian Panamas. Penn-Craft Panamas.

BELK’S CHARLOTTE, N. C.
