WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 9, 1936 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Five

PSYCHOLOGISTS EXPRESS OPINIONS ON ROYAL DILEMMA

Hood Discusses Current Problem of King Edward and Mrs. Wallis Simpson

Y.M.C.A. DEPUTATIONS VISIT TWO CHURCHES

Four Speak at Converse College While Quartet Goes To Charlotte

Last Sunday evening representatives of the Davidson Y.M.C.A. conducted the services of the Young Peoples’ League at the Second Presbyterian Church in Charlotte, and of the Y.W.C.A. at Converse College, Spartanburg, S.C. Scott, John Brown, and a quartet consisting of Stewart Wilson, Northcross, Paul Jones, and Harper Beall, comprised the deputation to the Charlotte church. The service there was preceded by a social to which the deputation was invited. Kenneth Lesby, Tom Anderson, Bill Brown, Bob King, and Rod Williams were the students detailed to go to Converse. The president of the Y.W.C.A. stated that the largest attendance in a very long time was present to hear them speak.

BLYTHE DEPICTS SOUTH AMERICAN LIFE

Tells Spanish Club of Last Summer’s Travels

At the last meeting of the Spanish Club, a very unique and interesting talk was presented to the club by F. L. Blythe, Professor of Spanish. Professor Blythe spoke on his trip to South America last summer. He gave a resume of the trip from New York City, through the Panama Canal, and down the west coast of South America. He depicted the life of the South American people, the beauty of their cities, and the climate of South America. Also, he told of his flight over the Andes Mountains from Santiago, Chile to Buenos Aires, Argentina, and his flight from Guayaquil, Ecuador to Lima, Peru. He also told of the highlights of his stay in Buenos Aires and the return trip to New York. The entire talk was made in Spanish.

The Daily Californian evidently believes in teaching its readers by repetition. It stated five times in succession that “it is a little known fact that polo, a game of the ancient Chinese, was invented by Persians, and was played by women.”

LIGHTING FIXTURES ELECTRICAL APPLIANCES GROCERIES M. H. GOODRUM & CO. Zenith and RCA Radios

FOR That Gift FOR “Her” Xmas College Pharmacy Davidson’s “Service Drug Store”

Says News: Stories Prejudice Minds of Readers Against Divorcee

DO NOT LIKE CHANGE

Believes Monarch Will Abdicate Throne

Dr. Frazer Hood, professor of psychology, when quizzed about the current love tangle between King Edward VIII of England and Mrs. Wallis Simpson, the American-born woman on whom the King now lavishes his affections to the extent of endangering his position on the throne of the British Empire, had the following remarks to make last Monday morning:

“It is significant that in all news stories Mrs. Simpson is referred to as a divorcee, which is a subtle psychological device for prejudicing the case in the minds of the majority of readers.

Interesting Sidelight

“Another interesting sidelight is the well-known Englishman's dislike of social and moral change. The chief argument in the minds of those Englishmen who are in opposition to the marriage is summed up in the phrase, ‘It’s never been done before.’ Therefore, anything that is new is suspicious of being wrong.”

When asked point blank his opinion as to whether the King would abdicate and retain Mrs. Simpson or marry and continue to follow royal dictates, Dr. Hood answered as follows:

“Now this is only a guess on my part, mind you, but I think he will abdicate.” He went on to enlarge upon this: “Edward has never relished the idea of kingship and in the past few years many people whom I have met abroad expressed doubt that he would ever occupy the throne. This may be a good opportunity for him to relinquish the reins of sovereignty and still keep his ‘moral’ face. That is if he feels his first duty is to the woman of his choice.”

“Nasty Dilemma”

To the question, “What do you think King Edward should do, follow the alleged royal duty or listen to the dictates of his own personal feelings?” Dr. Hood had this to say:

“It is a nasty dilemma. If I were an Englishman I would unquestionably say that duty to the empire came first. As an American and commoner, it leaves me in a quandary, not knowing which ‘horn’ of the dilemma to seize.

“In this particular case it seems like a pretty clear choice between duty and pleasure. In such a case he should sacrifice pleasure to duty. However, this statement must be modified by the fact that the duty in question is a very shadowy one: There is the duty to maintain a symbol and the desire to be a man in his own rights.”

In discussing the reasons for the objections to the Edward-Wally connection, Dr. Hood says: “Reasons for objecting to his marriage on the part of the Church, which in England is a greater political factor than in this country, seem to be due primarily to the fact that she (Mrs. Simpson) is a divorcee. Under English law, divorce is more difficult to obtain; therefore, the idea is more reprehensible morally. If the nation had a divorcee queen, it would do much to annul the value of the church’s condemning the practice.

Political Effect

“Secondly, as to political reasons. The ruling families are concerned with the King’s democratic proclivities. They are afraid if he is permitted to flaunt an immoral custom (Continued on Page 6)

FRESHMAN DEBATERS COMPETE FOR PLACES ON TEAM WEDNESDAY

Kellogg, Kenyon, Milne, Ramsey, Marion on Squad

EIGHTEEN CONTESTANTS

Matches Planned—Florida To Debate Here

Hot competition loomed in the Eumenean Society Hall last Wednesday evening as 18 freshmen offered their best to the judges in the final try for a place on the 1936-37 freshman debating team. Many good speeches were made and much indisputable argument was brought out as the freshmen exhibited their ability.

After a long discussion and much thought, the judges, Bob Stewart, Bob Port, and Charlie Mauze, agreed upon the winners, R. Kellogg, Q. A. R. Kenyon, G. L. Milne, R. W. Ramsey. For alternates, J. Holland and P. B. Marion were chosen. The judges stated that they discovered considerable talent in the freshman class and felt that they had a very good team which would make a good record for the class (Continued on Page 6)

Around Town

The Book Lovers’ Club met Friday afternoon at the home of Mrs. J. M. Dow. Miss Kate Douglas gave a paper on Trends of Modern Education.

Lieut. James R. Withers, Jr. of the CCC, Camden, S.C., spent last week with his parents, Mr. and Mrs. J. R. Withers.

Miss Henry Lily Johnston entertained at a dinner in Charlotte last week for Miss Lucy Currie and Frontis Johnston.

Many of the local Hi-Y Club boys attended the Older Boys Conference held at High Point on December 4 and 5.

Readers will be interested to know that Miss Sarah Shaw, sister of Miss Cornelia Shaw, was buried on Thanksgiving Day in Aberdeen.

Miss Bona Potts was taken to Charlotte Sanitorium on Friday afternoon because of a slight case of pneumonia.

Edwin Shewmake was operated on Thursday afternoon in Charlotte for a knee injury which he received playing football several weeks ago. He celebrated his 16th birthday on Sunday.

Led by the reveling sophomores, the student body enjoyed to the full a brilliant set of dances. Most of the fraternities had their usual feeds Sunday night and began to make plans to end the little social life now left before the holidays, in most cases with Christmas celebrations just before time to leave. All the chapters are warming up their basketball teams in preparation for the coming intramural season.

Beta Theta Pi

Phi Alpha Chapter will be host at a Christmas party at the house on Monday night, December 21. The brothers had a feed last Sunday night.

Pi Kappa Phi

Beta Chapter will have a dance Monday night, December 21, at the Charlotte Golf Club with Dickson’s Carolina Boys furnishing the music. A feed will be held next Sunday night at the chapter house.

Kappa Alpha

Robinson, Raynal, and Stitt attended a set of dances at Hollins College. Charlie Walt and Tenner spent the week-end at their homes. Kappa Alpha held a party at Tenner’s Restaurant in Charlotte Friday night. The chapter had its regular feed at the house on Sunday night.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon

The fraternity had a banquet at the S. & W. Cafeteria in Charlotte Saturday evening after the Sophomore Week-end tea dance. A feed was held at the chapter house Sunday night.

Kappa Sigma

Hugh Hill and Dick Spencer were initiated into the fraternity Thursday night. The chapter had a banquet Saturday night after the regular chapter meeting. Carl Carlson, Billy Gracey, and George Norfleet spent Sunday in Greensboro.

LESS CARS FOR RENT

M. P. Henderson GULF GAS & OIL

Mrs. Heath Whittle of the Davidson chapter, Pi Kappa Phi, left before the holidays.Chapter were guests. The fraternity will celebrate Founder's Day on Thursday, December 10; archon, Reginald Harris, faculty brothers, alumni, and several district alumni are expected to attend. The freshman pledges of the fraternity are making plans for a Christmas party next week. The banquet will be held at the Wooden Bowl restaurant in Charlotte on Saturday evening. Alumni visitors this last weekend included Mitchell Arrowsmith, Penn Acree, Goof Warren, and Van Patterson. Other guests of the chapter included George Bethune and Ben Blalock, both of Wadesboro.

Phi Gamma Delta
Mr. and Mrs. Rutledge Miller of Johnson City, Tenn., were guests of the chapter last Wednesday. Jim Dorsett and Bob Stewart attended the dances at Hollins last weekend; Ernie Dooley and Gene Vogler went to Randolph-Macon.

Phi Delta Theta
North Carolina Gamma will be host to the Charlotte Alumni Club at a party to be held at the chapter house on Friday night, December 11. The chapter is planning to have a Christmas party next week. Paul Arrowood, Charles Ramseur, and John Grand were alumni guests of the fraternity this weekend in their homes in Lincolnton.

Sigma Phi Epsilon
North Carolina chapter presented the silver loving cup awarded by the Pan-Hellenic Council for the best-decorated fraternity house in the contest held at Homecoming on Saturday, November 7. The fraternity is planning to have a Christmas house party next week.

EXPERT WORKMANSHIP
HIGHEST QUALITY
BUFF SHOE SHOP
HALF SOLES HEELS
O. C. BUFF, Prop.

CHRISTMAS DECORATIONS
SOUTHERN 5 & 10c Store
Christmas Supplies

The Black Keys, a prominent social club on campus, entertained with a breakfast in the private dining room of the Hotel Charlotte after the last dance of the weekend. About forty people, including members and their dates, attended this banquet, which was given in special honor of the eleven new initiates. Armfield, president of the club, acted as toastmaster.

Halls of the building at the College of Mount St. Joseph on the Ohio are now equipped with ink filling stations. A penny in the slot will release enough ink for a fountain pen filling.

BARING THE HEART OF ALL WOMANKIND IN A DARING DRAMA
NO HUSBAND OR LOVER
ROSALIND RUSSELL
JOHN BOLES
IN THE PULITZER PRIZE PLAY "CRAIG'S WIFE"
Week of Dec. 14th
BROADWAY

NOW SHOWING—THIS WEEK
William Powell—Kay Francis
“ONE WAY PASSAGE”

MCA PONEERENCE and Mrs. Wallis Simpson
Thinks Affair’ Is the Result of Normal Desire Too Long Suppressed

Dr. Gordon Spaugh
FOREMAN GIVES REPORT
Believes Edward Will Choose Duty, Not Pleasure
Dr. Myers and Dr. Peele Also Make Addresses

The Davidson Hi-Y Club left Davidson Friday at 2 o'clock for High Point, where the Older Boys Conference of the Carolinas was being held. At High Point, the club stayed in private homes. The conference consisted principally of a religious session Friday night at which the Rev. Dr. Gordon Spaugh, pastor of the Home Moravian Church, Winston-Salem, was the main speaker. Douglas of Rock Hill, S.C., spoke in response to greetings extended by the High Point Hi-Y Club. At the religious session Saturday morning, various discussion groups were led by a number of prominent speakers. Saturday evening, each club gave a report of its work, the Davidson Hi-Y Club report being given by Kenneth Foreman in a clear manner. Saturday night, the conference attended a banquet at High Point College, where they were addressed by the Rev. Charles Peele of the Presbyterian Church, Greensboro. The conference closed Sunday morning with a 9 o'clock service at the West End Methodist Church. The Rev. Charles Peele, formerly of Charlotte, preached the concluding sermon. Those attending were Ed Jackson, Kenneth Foreman, Spencer Blackwelder, George Withers, Thomas Withers, Bill Wood, Marion Cole, Ed Erwin, Robert Church, Price Gwynn, and J. Marion Bryant.

King George and Queen Mary always put up a very pleasant front, but who knows how much the king fretted privately about having to forego his love marriage. Dr. Gwynn summed the affair up by saying, “Just another example of the explosion that occurs when normal desires are too long suppressed.” He has often said that he would not attempt to psychoanalyze the King Edward-Simpson affair and offer conclusions as scientific and accurate when he has never seen either, but along with everybody else, he has been wondering what has caused such an explosion all at once. “My opinion is that we value most the things we have never had, and often we place very exaggerated value on them. And then he came into authority. He met Mrs. Simpson. She was a very attractive woman, so the restraints were released—just like steam from a boiling pot.”

King George's health was bad. During that time, the Prince of Wales had many slight love affairs with attractive women. My opinion is that he restrained himself because he did not wish to trouble his father. And then he came into authority. He met Mrs. Simpson. She was a very attractive woman, so the restraints were released—just like steam from a boiling pot.

The Kings of England have bowed so long to duty that it has almost become an instinct. In the end, the King will choose duty.

Those attending were Ed Jackson, Kenneth Foreman, Spencer Blackwelder, George Withers, Thomas Withers, Bill Wood, Marion Cole, Ed Erwin, Robert Church, Price Gwynn, and J. Marion Bryant.

CAR FOR RENT
Cheap Rates .. Good Service
BILL BUSBY

Initiates Honored at Black Key Breakfast
A novel ashtray of metal—the duck’s bill holds your lighted cigarette. And in it, a belt of finest cowhide with a buckle of sterling silver. Individualized by “his” initial in black enamel. Truly, a clever gift for men.
J.B. IVEY & CO.