THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 19, 1936

The Davidsonian
Founded By the Class of 1915

1935 - Member | 1936
Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate year.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879.

ARTICLES FOR PUBLICATION must be in the hands of Managing Editors by 4:00 o'clock p.m. Monday. Letters to the Editor are welcome, but all communications intended for publication must be signed.

LAMONT BROWN .................. Editor-in-Chief
R. P. MORROW, Jr. ............... Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
Jim Morton .................. Managing Editor
Howitt Overton .............. Managing Editor
Halon Sugg .................. Managing Editor
Daymond Turner ............ Managing Editor
John Winn ................... Managing Editor
Harry Kuykendall ........... Sports Editor
Martin Barnett .............. Associate Editor
Harvey Glass ................ Associate Editor
Paul Harland ............... Associate Editor
Tom Marchant .............. Associate Editor
John Walker ................ Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
Charles Mauze .............. Circulation Manager
Burt Swort .................. Circulation Manager
Bob Vance .................. Circulation Manager
Hoke Robinson ............. Advertising Manager
Burt Hitt .................... Collection Manager

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 1936

Buy the truth, and sell it not; also wisdom, and understanding. Prov. 23:23.

Paragraphics....

MORE UNCLAIMED DAVIDSON GENTLEMEN: Those who cough unnecessarily during the chapel service in an apparent effort to annoy the speaker.

* * * *

Cheating rings seem to be contagious, or are they ORGANIZED FOR publicity purposes. One was revealed at the University of South Carolina last week.

Know the Faculty...

For quite a long while a Davidson student would almost be accused of heresy if he should be seen stopping by a professor's office for an informal chat with him or if one of his fellows saw the two walking across the campus together. Thankfully we are able to say that this condition no longer exists in its former unanimous way. However, there is still a definitely broad and deep cavern between the students of Davidson College and its faculty. A gap that both groups should conscientiously strive to make smaller, more particularly the students because it is very largely due to their indifference and lack of appreciation for a wholesome friendly relationship with their instructors that this inexcusable situation has come about.

Professors are seen in the classrooms, where they have little time to do more than the required amount of work on fact and theory, which taken alone as a basis for judgment, would create an extremely unfair opinion of the sort of person a professor might be like. Therefore, if the students could at some vacant times have a few out-of-the-classroom sessions with his “narrow-minded, bull-headed prof” he would, almost without exception, assume an entirely different and more understanding opinion of his classroom master.

It would be very difficult for an instructor with a class of fifty men to find out exactly what sort of person “Johnnie Knownothing” is when he sits peacefully on the third row and never opens his mouth except to answer “here” when his name is called down the alphabetical line. So, even in the so-called “small college,” as we proudly claim Davidson is, and hope will be for many years to come, it is necessary for the student to make some special effort along that line if he wants to really know the professors and have them know him.

The question will undoubtedly arise, as it has many times before; “what good will it do you to know the members of the faculty?” and unfortunately this interrogation implies the unthoughtful attitude of too many Davidson men. To answer it most effectively we quote from one who not many years ago dwelt within the same walls, which now shelter us, and has been taught, so he asserts, a great deal from the most impressionable of all teachers, “bitter experience.”

Numerous other alumni of Davidson have expressed similar opinions on this subject, but this one gives it in the clearest and most concise way of any. “Paramount among the numerous advantages one can gain from an intimate association with the professors at Davidson are two things which I was never either wise enough or courageous enough to enjoy. The first is that if you know your professor and he knows you there will be a more tolerant mutual feeling between you, which would in itself be well worth any man’s efforts if he could only learn its value before he has passed from behind the door upon which the opportunity constantly knocks.

The second applies to the days after you have become an alumnus and occasionally return to the dear old Alma Mater. You see the men who taught you once upon a time, but you never knew outside the classroom, and they seem to sense some familiarity about your appearance, but you are unable to find a warm path leading you into a nice friendly handclasp with your former pedagogical associate. Therefore, I encourage the men of Davidson to know the faculty, because it means immeasurable good while in school as well as in post-graduate days.”

Let's get out of this rut we are in at Davidson and learn to know our faculty. They are human the same as any of us, and when we fail to seize the opportunity of friendly association with them we are missing something of inestimable value.

Ministry For Magnitude...

Sunday night Dr. Cunningham used “The Ministry of Solitude” as the theme for his unusually fine address, and it occurred to me that this could also be called The Ministry for Magnitude. It is a time when we can get off to ourselves and meditate upon the things which make for greatness and strength of character. We hear it preached about us every day that the big trouble in society today is the lack of sane logical thought. This may be quite true in some respects, but it would be hard to deny that even American youth does a great amount of collective reasoning, the sort of reasoning that evolves about the ideas of others, and either improves or destroys the blueprints of those few creative individual thinkers, who should be actually lonesome with the small amount of company they have in this country.

From Dr. Cunningham's message, therefore, I think we should be made more sensitive to the real need for uninfluenced thought, which isn’t wrong in itself, but it doesn’t give to us the magnitude that original individual creations do, when worked out in quiet solitude.

“The greatest love-letter ever written” is in a collection at Haverford. John Keats wrote it, a century ago, to Fanny Brawne.

Abolition of states and divisions of the country into regions, their boundaries dictated by economy and by cultures and traditions, was suggested by Dr. J. W. Manning, of the University of Kentucky.

The University of Chicago has established a new chair of comparative law: Prof. Max Rheinstein, Nazi exile, was given the post.

College-age drivers cause the greatest number of auto accidents. In the 18-24 age bracket 286,940 crashed last year.

German colleges and universities have lost between 30 and 40 percent of their scientific instructors.

Ad in the Syracuse (N.Y.) Post-Standard: Lady’s Purse—Containing Psi U, Phi Psi and Beta Theta Pi fraternity pins. Valuable to owner for sentimental reasons.

POLITICAL SUBTERFUGE

The most effective and bewildering instrument for the furtherance of autocratic government, particularly useful in colleges and universities, is the Committee Idea. One can argue with a man, but a decision by a Committee (sic!) leaves one confused with a feeling of hopelessness. The hypocritical impression it leaves is a reminder of franker Louis XIV: “L'etat, C'est moi!”

While the mind is in that track: from observation and verbal comparison there is a more repressed and bitter feeling of the Student Body in general existing at Davidson than at any other college of Davidson's personnel of which we know. The goal of the rising student body administration should be to go to the root of the problem and eradicate a condition which bodes no good for Davidson.

DEFINITIONS

A freshman is a guy who had better not let the grass grow under his feet.

A writer is a more or less ornery creature who spends half of his life getting out of sorts with the world and the other half trying to get the world in sorts with him.

A columnist is a queer sort of a guy who writes like things have happened when they haven't.

Glimpse into Future: John Walker, sitting under a banyan tree, clad in loin cloth, and carving buffoons out of helpless wood while quibbling over the comparative disadvantages of modern Hedonism.

THE LOVELIFE OF MOORESVILLE

In an investigation of the goings-on of our local and nearby brethren, we find that Karl Caldwell makes it a High Point to visit a Miss Brown, that Virgil Ritchie goes around singing popular Ballards, that Paul Hudson is interested in a Miss Taylor and that Owen Davidson, Dick Melchor and Theodore Mack are members of that great tribe of reptilians indigenous to certain monocotyledonous plants. As for our friend Ed Mack, we have not yet gotten the dope but suppose that it Macks no difference. A more intensive and more local investigation may be expected next week.

HITHER, THITHER AND YON

Statistics show that 58 percent of college women never marry but that Converse girls show a batting average of 88 percent who take the trip to the altar. Careful boys when Converse-ing, they get their men!

Bob Atwater, Charlie Mauze, Joe Hunter, Tom Breeden, John Partridge, Reg Harris and Sam Hutaff are still bachelors, we hope; after that last weekend.

Best story of the week: Jelly McClelland, Dan Griffin, Jack Branch and Cokey Branton confronted by a drunk who pokes a revolver in Cokey's ribs and says: "don't think it’ll shoot, huh?” and then shoots twice in the air, some took to the woods, some got under the car but—Jelly took to the bushes.

Second Best: Hunter McClung faces the righteous wrath of a dean whose Salem protege has been kept out too late.

Biggest Scandal: faculty members at square dance held in Chambers last Tuesday night. Calumnist has the writeup and three photographers the dope. Note: Object to the profanation!

Perfection...

“One undergraduate publication describes the perfect Scotchman as one who holds the penny so...hard he puts a permanent wave in Lincoln's hair. ¢*-¢ ¢ Flying ... Officials at Carolina have postponed the intramural sports program on account of the prevalence of influenza on the Chapel Hill campus... Over forty-six in the infirmary according to latest reports. ¢- ¢ ¢ Advice to the Love-Lorn ... The Colonnade points out that it is better to have loved a small man than never to have loved a tall. To which we add: "Tis better to have loved and lost than to have wed and then be chased. —Florida Flambeau. oo Short, Short Story ... The boy headed for the Phi Delta dance was getting romantic, much to the annoyance of his date. “I'm in the mood for love,” he whispered musically to her. Her reply was instantaneous. “Dinner for one, please, James,” she crooned back. . —Emory Wheel. ¢ 0% Oo” Or '20... It was announced that Walter Pitkin would speak on “Life Begins at Forty.” The professors wished that he had told students life should begin at 8:40. —Red and Black. oo ¢ Noblesse Oblige ... Last week during exams a Tech professor found the first half of a two-part exam on his desk without a name. After reading it over he stood up before the class and holding it in his hand said, “Will the dumbest person in the room please stand, and maybe we can find out who this belongs to?” A student rose. The professor then asked: “So, you're the dumbest one?” “No.” he replied, “I just didn’t like to see you standing there by yourself.” —Technique. ¢-¢ Requiem .. . Yes, I killed her . . . What else could I do? I loved her, adored her . . . 'Tis quite true; But love is not clinging For one, I have found, Who insists upon singing The music goes round.’ : —Hornet.. . _ . What else yes "oe? @ Superlative .. . A man walked into the annex the other day and said—“I will give a dollar to the laziest man here.” Dustin (lying on the billiard table) “Roll me over, buddy, and stick it in my back pocket.” , —Ring-Tum-Phi. Oo ¢ Wishes... I wish I were beneath a tree — With my favorite book. And all the pills I had to take Took. —Reveille. Sd Drippings . . . The honor system was abandoned by a majority vote of the student body at Mercer recently . . . A sociology professor at Ohio State discovered that the three dislikes of his students were blind dates, red hair, and chemistry professors .. . A newspaper in Nohas, Ark., took a straw vote among denizens of the hill regions to find out who they would like for their next president. Final tabulations showed Lincoln beating Garfield by 300 votes with Teddy Roosevelt a close third,. . . The faculty at the University of Toronto passed a law forbidding students to bring stenographers to class with them to take lecture notes. * ¢ —Daily Tar Heel. May Honor ROTC At Annual Bowery Ball Plans are afoot to hold a military ball on the Friday night of the Bowery Ball weekend, and negotiations have been opened with the Pan-Hellenic Council for this function. The ball is to feature a figure by the junior and senior officers of the R. O. T. C. and their ladies. The officers will be in full uniform. Collection of the fund for the purchase of cups for battalion awards is nearing completion. There will be three cups, one each for the best drilled company, the best drilled platoon, and the best individual soldier. These cups will be put on exhibition as soon as they are secured, according to an announcement by Cokey Branton, president of Scabbard and Blade. The cups will be bought with the proceeds from a 1c assessment levied on each man taking R. O. T. C. VARSITY MEN DEBATE (Continued from Page 1) constitutional.” A team, composed of Wade Boggs and Tyler Port, will leave on February 25, for a Southern tour debating the University of South Carolina, University of Florida, University of Miami, and Emory University. APPLE STRUDEL Social Item: Little Tommy Tom-Tom Thompson attended the Gastonia Bowery Ball cunningly dressed in white linen, straw hat, purple shirt and accessories. Thanks for the pipe, you rascal! Latest Club: Johnny Watkins’ Birds-Eye-View Club adds new members, Frank Tucker, Charlie Raynal and Bill Fraley. Sad Notes: Ben Clark's accounting book and Booby Arrowsmith’s 150-mile fruitless journey. Last Week’s Misses: Jake Morrow does affectionate practicing for Baseball on Charlotte Bus Saturday night. Bill Mickley, lone Sweetbriar trouper who got there, on time at least. Complimentary Resemblances: Buddy Newton and Virginia Bruce. Buccaneer Dance this week:—Carl Carlson, Chubby King, Charley Elders and others. The bitter end: Andy Turner, King of Hearts at Queens and “Tea-Hound” Bradley the gentleman of honor. True test of congeniality: Can you without misgivings take a long crisp piece of celery after dinner and enjoy yourself in her company? Take it away, Brown, and a little more ammonia! Vanderbilt Phi Psis and Betas had a private war recently with eggs (old), mud balls and garden hose. ~ SS COCOOO SOD OO DOOREDELOSHESSOCCOOOECES Compare the NEW S88 From Davidsonians of Years Gone By —1931— Wildcats barely nose out Carolina by a score of 30-28. Mathis and Martin star for Davidson . . . The second issue of the “Yow!” will appear in March... Dr. W. Taliaferro Thompson will preach at Church Sunday morning and will then speak at “Y" vespers Sunday night ... Dr. H. B. Arbuckle of the Davidson Faculty makes an inspiring and helpful talk at vespers Sunday ... Pre-Med students take the American Medical Association test to determine medical adaptability Basketball team plans a trip through South Carolina... State defeats Davidson 30-23, while Duke defeats the wrestlers 24-6. ——1926— Thirty North Carolina High Schools are invited to take part in the annual track meet here on March 27 ... The Rev. Dr. Dungar H. Ogden will conduct the annual spring services here next week. ... The Glee Club will start on a southern tour Tuesday. They will stop at Spartanburg, S. C., Toccoa, Ga., Atlanta, Ga., Greenville, S. C. and Charlotte ... Bishop Edwin A. Penick of Charlotte and Dr. K. J. Foreman of Davidson will be the commencement speakers .. . Sophomore banquet will be held in the Charlotte Chamber of Commerce Saturday night. It will be followed by a theater party at the Imperial Theater ... A point system is recommended to the students for Student body positions . . . Eighteen men report for baseball. —1921— Second chapter of Gamma Sigma Epsilon is established. Alpha-Beta chapter is organized at N. C. State . Dr. Fraser Hood is now preparing a volume entitled “Dynamic Salesmanship” .. . Glee Club will take a six-day trip and return here next Saturday ... The band will give a concert at Shearer Hall next Tuesday... Basketball team leaves for a trip through North Carolina ... Davidson Glee Club makes merry at Queens-Chicora College. —1916— Junior speaking to begin Friday .. . Local bank is bought by Davidson men from the American Trust Company in Charlotte... A jitney bus line is established between Davidson and Charlotte. The Soph banquet will be held in March Slight earthquake is felt at Davidson Monday night. “Schimmel,” star of the Berlin police department's dog section, is credited with the individual solution of eight murders. ADDRESS Two Y. M. C. A. YOUTHS Benfield and Walker Sent As Y. M. C. A. Deputation —-— To Charlotte J. H. Benfield and John M. Walker spoke to two boys groups at the Charlotte Y. M. C. A. Sunday afternoon, February 16, as a “Y” deputation from Davidson. Regular meetings, led by representatives of the college “Y,” have been held for several months. Benfield met with a group of boys of grammar school age, and Walker addressed the high school group. The subject of Walker's discussion was “What it means to be a Christian.” In recommending the Christian life as one which any red-blooded fellow could lead, Walker spoke of the difference in character between Jesus and his proud Roman contemporaries and stated that their mighty battles counted for very little today, in comparison with the humane works of Christ. Benfield developed the theme of the “Treasure of Heaven” in his talk to the younger boys, saying that is neglected at present in favor of worldly rewards. ANNUAL MEETING (Continued from Page 1) cula activities, athletics and music were discussed. Dr. Lingle stated before the meeting had taken place, “something may be done about a director of physical education.” He also referred to music as a “great cultural part of the curriculum.” Following this, the report made clear the need for library adjustments, due to the small size of the building and the growing number of books that must be housed. Tenth in the report, President Lingle recommended that three joint committees be appointed from the faculty and the trustees for the purpose of arranging and planning an appropriate Centennial for Davidson College. Concluding the report, eighteen recommendations were presented to the trustees for their approval or rejection. These mainly concerned the re-election of certain associate professors and members of the staff. Several men were also considered for honorary degrees to be presented at commencement. There were three nominations for the degree of Doctor of Divinity, and three for other degrees. In this concluding section of the report, the immediate needs of the College in the way of buildings were discussed. A need was expressed for the following: an infirmary, library, field house, church, social center, science building, another dormitory, and an addition to the stadium. For this building program, about $815,000 would be needed according to President Lingle. I. R. C. INITIATES (Continued from Page 1) Rogersville, Tenn.; Phillip Friberg, president of the Senior Class. This new constitution is fitted more to the club here on the Davidson campus than the national constitution. NO EPIDEMIC (Continued from Page 1) the epidemic progresses it is liable to become more severe in character and we recommend that all students guard against infections as far as possible. Crowding closely together in rooms poorly ventilated is the most common cause. Anyone with a cough and a slight fever is in the infectious stage. “We have handled many severe epidemics since 1918 and at present are not unduly alarmed, for the cases we have now are mostly of a mild form. All cases however should have proper care and treatment, for if taken in hand early and treated properly there is little danger or loss of time.” LOCAL CHAPTERS OF GREEK (Continued from Page 1) Augusta, Ga.; Wilson Lowrance, Barium Springs; Charles Sample, Fort Pierce, Fla.; James Sample, Fort Pierce, Fla.; Andy Turner, Orlando, Fla.; Hiram White, Rock Hill, S. C.; Terrett Porter, Waycross, Ga. Beta Theta Pi will hold its initiation on February 29, and it will be followed by a banquet at the house. Sigma Alpha Epsilon will hold its initiation on February 20, in the Eumenean Hall, and it will be followed by an entertainment at their house. Kappa Sigma has made no definite plans as to when their initiation will be held, but it will be sometime in the next two weeks. Phi Gamma Delta will hold its initiation on February 22, and it will be followed by the annual pig dinner at the S. & W. Cafeteria in Charlotte.