WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 28, 1936 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Five

Military Groups Observe Scabbard and Blade Day

WHARTON’S INTERVIEW

Past of NANOS Featured

Mitchell’s “Gone With the Wind” Is Very Popular; “BIDS Is About Civil War

Teddy Roosevelt’s Birthday Observed By National Military Fraternity

HAS MANY FEATURES

BIOGRAPHY AND SCIENCE

SEVENTY - SIX CHAPTERS

NEW ANGLES FEATURED

Cartoons, Humor, Music, Short Stories and Sports Fill Magazine

Writer Active in Journalism At Davidson

Enough Worthwhile to Alleviate Shortcomings

Books on Oglethorpe and Lincoln Stand Out

Don Wharton, ’25, a member of Scribner’s editorial staff, conducts two parallel interviews in the current issue of Scribner’s on
what will happen if either Roosevelt or Landon wins the election. Earl Browder is interviewed on Roosevelt and Norman Thomas
on Landon.

Mr. Browder thinks Landon is too reactionary and will ultimately lead to fascism, while Roosevelt is vacillating between reaction and
progression. “Roosevelt's re-election,” he says, “would be a defeat for those looking toward a dictatorship. It would also undermine some
of the dictatorship assumed by the Supreme Court.”

Mr. Thomas believes that the country will get into the same mess whether Landon or Roosevelt wins. The issue, he
says, is between socialism and democracy.

While in Davidson, Wharton was very active, serving as Athletic Editor for The Davidsonian his senior year, Assistant Athletic Editor
for the Quips and Cranks, as Essay Editor for the Magazine. He was also a professor in Northwestern’s School of
Journalism.

The new literary and humorous magazine, Scripts ‘n Pranks, will be born on the Davidson campus on Wednesday, November 4.
It is hoped by Editor H. H. Overton and his staff. Since this publication is expected to be a worthy
successor to the Yowl, the student body awaits its appearance.

In full fall regalia, the first edition, the Homecoming Issue, will feature two full pages of pictures of the Davidson
Iron Men and their sponsors for the homecoming game with Carolina. Also in keeping with the occasion will be a
special homecoming story.

Several short stories will be found in the new magazine which will lean more to the literary side of writing
than its predecessor. Among them will be “The Neck’s Best Thing,” by Richard Vowles; Sam Ryburn’s “Gaunt with the Winds,”
and others. There will be a column devoted to music, “Notes to You,” on which Vowles will collaborate with Pete
McKnight. Macllwinen, who will also have some book reviews.

The various companies and alumni posts of the National Society of Scabbard and Blade, located at 70 universities and colleges
in a number of our larger cities, celebrated the anniversary of the birth of former President Theodore Roosevelt as National
Scabbard and Blade day on October 27.

Company, 5th Regiment, of Davidson, observed this event by wearing military uniforms yesterday.

On the afternoon of October 27, the National Officers of Scabbard and Blade and detachments from regiments located at the
University of Maryland and Johns Hopkins University decorated the tomb of the Unknown Soldier at Arlington Cemetery, Washington, D.C. in
memory of the three thousand members who participated in the World War.

The service was in addition to the placing of the wreath with attendant ceremonies, a certificate of honor, membership medal,
and plaque bearing the fraternity emblem were deposited in the Memorial Museum of the amphitheatre at Arlington.

The band chose to go to all away-from-Davidson games and not go to Annapolis, rather than go to the Navy
game alone. Furman University band has extended a special invitation to the Davidson organization, and plans have been made for
the two bands to play several numbers together between the halves at the Davidson-Furman game.

In the opinion of Professor Lew Sarett of Northwestern University, modern college youth is far more serious and “fundamentally fine”
than the college youth of five years ago. “Five years ago,” said Sarett, “youth—in general—talked much about sophistication and skepticism.
It liked the posture of honest skepticism. Today, youth talks less about it and no posture of sophistication would be
assumed by the healthier and more serious youth of today.”

The N.C. Council of the S.P.A. met in Greensboro last Sunday with 75 delegates from North Carolina colleges present. Hill
represented Davidson. All North Carolina colleges were invited to send delegates.

Professor Lefler, Professor of History at the University of North Carolina, was the principal speaker. Dr. Lefler spoke on “The
Prospect of War in Europe.” He was very pessimistic in his outlook on the prospect of war.

Margaret Mitchell’s “Gone With the Wind,” has been in constant circulation in the library. It brings to life the stirring
drama of the War and Reconstruction. The story epitomizes the very essence of the South. It has been said that
this book is one of the biggest and finest things that has come out of the New South and can
hold its own with any produced in this country today. Another popular book whose author is Douglas Southall Freeman, is
a biography of Robert E. Lee.| PETA TYATPecatty tas ey jy | @etive in inter-collegiate debating, the APLeAtE dE Sonnet,
TOLmer | tl eee { rt RUS Snes: eee tL ney DmDer aa zy = r pas eur aay ras
re by Rvb, Who, along with ‘shairim: ; . Jor aro Was Iree major avocation wy | i; dealist”” act.
‘The National Society of Scab- Peel vad Miller, a freshman.| V5 af assistant in Education, and| chairman of the» North
Carolina Peele Al ial Idealist” and “The Lincoln Le-] ' ; : ‘ . owles and Muller, ¢ es an,
wei Yeace ov spok : +} are us writing, of which he does], 2 ) out e r - |,to-<¢
rl lerstanding o the bard and Blade was founded over ill | artoon in th issu served on the “Y”
Cabinet. At var ! ence. Movement, spoke _on th t lot bl} I is | Sale teu! out "he former
by | J PGS ay mas F othe ; xe ' will have cartoons i re issue, tae Qik aR
tae? .'} quite a lot, public speaking: is his tng a Hee oy »| man thirty years ago at the
University TI ean Wt lone in| US times he served as president, Need for Student Action for Peace ; 1
, 11 : ; 1 PLUNBen Is UC 1dllcstDiogranhy Eee ITT 3 : lese cartoons wi re done ; op
SeSSs10 } second and tollowing the woods 1s wri f the g ‘oloni yonun f nteresti \ | of Wisconsin
by five cadet officers, tv fi RREERE frarmeth treasurer, and secretary of his lit- Phen there was an open session
in ' rileeres F : | ie ever written of ¢ great Colonist. | V number of intere x works
on § some new styles, differe ro ec :: } e 7 lis Ss 1 sug- |} tus thirc sarett
writ oKSsS On l ‘ aid \ | . | rj hil and four years ago a memorial flag- 1;
eval . avhit i apatite eraty society He won a number which the delegates discussed sus : ‘ ie ¢
Phe cond, by Basler, is a clear | religion and philosophy ve been : fairer vain black and white used
in the]. Featlone—for— sti P f action, | education-and alsoomany books on tah stati : ; ra > “The pole
was erected at that institution . inner : Ae ihere willbe wash ot debating and declamation BC an Ay eT
a oe tur HH i tl i t ; peat notte scan) masts stints ies | Bunee. tout tel vee
in : ein Beis RTA i owl last year. cre W e was . atfo s ‘ nature e isoone
o 1 yest au ene } ten lag eee Bi ¢ ; ‘ ue by the National Society in honor
j f eicled neleune cat awards. At his graduation he was] [he platform is sent to each col ear eal
i < ; eneath all the legend and hero-| Testimony of the Soul,” by Rufus 3 ry % 5o |
drawings, shaded, anc ole cuts, >? y ° ae i ey r ) oO thorittes on Indian lite e has
a Gn e i ey : | “ Fave ee . of the founders. It now has 78 a member
of Phi Béta Kappa, Sig lege Y. M. C. A. for approval tor 1 worship that has grown up around!
Jones, and “A New Fundamental- as well as some of the plain. work. xwell Henry, « } i) a ;
ma Upsilon and Alpha: Phi Epsilon; | that college be | (Continued on Page 6) Lincoln. It is an invaluable-zutde
| ism,” by James The art staff has prepared illustra- | | | active chapters in 48 states and a
x9tal membership of approximate-| .. P eer : toe au PI tions for the principal stories in ; ly 24,000.
: ae e ern z ; the magazine he purposes of the society are ; ; Harold Sugg will have
a humor- ous column, entitled “Dictated, But Not Read” a successor to his “Sugg- to defend American traditions and ideals,
promote the interests of R. (0), 10, velop the essential qualities of good C. training, preserve and de- Jestings, The
Davidsonian last year. Bob Johnston will continue to write the sports section, with a feature which was published in and
efficient officers, and to spread intelligent information concerning requirements of our country. Active membership in Scabbard and Blade is limited
to outstanding Advertisements of local and na- R. O. T. C.| tional, business concerns will fill the column. cadet officers
in the units. They are elected by mem-]| remaining pages of the twenty- bers of the chapter, the choosing eight
which will compose this issue. being based upon their proficiency eee t in military science, academic sub- jects, character, and
other attri- COMMUNITY YOUTHS butes. Officers of the Regular Army, national guard and organized INITIATED INTO HI y reserves may
be elected to associ- = ate membership. Honorary mem- When Fun and Smoking “Last Way Into the Night... On party
nights—or whenever you do a lot of bership is conferred on civilians. ee Formal Induction Service Held MISS SARAH WITHERS)
"= Si >= MARRIES MR, CURR... bers at a meeting held Friday eve- smoking —you'll find that Luckies, a light
smoke, are a comfort as well as a joy! For since Luc kies aoe sacs : i : a are
a light smoke, there’s no wear and tear on . ome. . ning in le college sock center Dr. Richards
Officiates at Pri- = ; 3 5 vate Wedding Ceremony A wedding of much interest to The initiates had been
invited to your throat. Luckies wear well...they’re the only become members of the organiza- cigarette that’s “Toasted”... your protection 66%
; ee center-leaf tobacco. It’s a good morning smoke-with a-clean,-fresh taste-And-it’s-a good night smoke...easy on you... gentle. It's never 100
tion a week before at the chapel period Of the local school. ganst ifritation. So tomorrow, or better, right the
readers of The Davidsonian was that of Miss Sarah Bell Withers President Ed Jackson officiated and Daniel Allen Currie of
Fay-] at the tap ceremony being aided in ow, reach for a Lucky—rich with the taste of etteville, which was
solemnized Sat-] the-several speaking parts by Ed- urday evening at the Davidson] win Shewmake, vice-president, Presbyterian Church, Kenneth Foreman, secretary,
Bill Dr. C. M. Richards officiated.}| Wood, treasurer and Marion Bry- Songs were rendered by Mrs. G. R.] ant, sponsor.
Marion Bryant, Y. Vowles and Miss Dorothy Fin-}| M. C. A. Cabinet member in charge layson. They were accompanied at]
of Hi-Y work spoke for a short the organ by Mrs. T. H. Watkins. | time on “A Definition of
Hi-Y” A beautiful garden scene of ever-| which was the major part of the greens, ferns, and yellow chrysan-} program.
themums provided a_ background At the meeting Friday, October for the impressive nuptial. 23, the new men formally accepted The
lovely bride wore a white} their duties as members of the Hi- satin gown, and carried a shower late for
a light smoke... never too late fora l Lucky! * * NEWS FLASH! * * 82 years old—She Knows Her
Popular Music Mrs. Elizabeth Bowles of Uvalde, Texas, is a real “Sweepstakes” fan. She writes: “I am 82 years old
and this is the first time Ihave ever won anything absolutely free, and am I pleased!” Congratulations, Mrs. Bowles. We're
certainly pléased, too, that you won. , ‘ ey (Continued on Page 6) bouquet of white rose buds and lilies
of the valley. : Miss Mary Withers, sister of the| Sponsors At Citadel bride and maid of honor, wore a
Encounter Add Color : beautiful greén velvet dress, and : ave v pe uy ? . * , Have you
entered yet? Have you woa your delicious Lucky Strikes? There's mu- sic on the air, Tune in Your Hit Parade”
Wednesday and Saturday evenings. Listen, judge, and compare the tunes—- then try Your Lucky Strike “Sweepstakes.” carried talisman roses, snapdragons
Following the plan started at the For “Night-and-Day” and chrysanthemums. Serving as} Davidson-V. M. I. game, the game Smokers brides-maids
were Misses Adele Ar-| with Citadel Saturday had another ‘ 4 , —A Light Smoke! - Even though you've been
smoking through most of the day, and all through the evening, you'll find that your midnight Lucky tastes buckle, Lucy
Currie, and Jane} group of sponsors for the two Leighton Richards, of Davidson;|teams. The sponsors for the David- Miss Elizabeth
Shipman of Bre-}son and Citadel players were: vard; Miss Ida Currie of Clarkton,} Misses Caddie Willis, Concord; and Mrs. J.
T, Richardson of Ra-]| Coralie Mears, Concord; Marilyn And if you're not already smoking Luckies, buy a pack today.and try
them. Maybe you've been missing something. leigh. Brittain, Charlotte; Barbara Davis, as good as your Lucky at You'll appreciate the
advantages of Duncan C. Currie of Fayetteville,}] Charlotte; Gertrude Ross, Concord; noon. For a clean taste, a Luckies—a Light Smoke
of rich, ripe the groom’s brother, served as best} Nell Abbot, Charlotte; Louise Mar- clear throat... reach for o bodied
tobacco, : man. Ushers were: John M. Cur-| tin, Sanford; Beatrice Hammond, Lucky—a light smoke! rie and Bailey Evans, Jr.,
of Fay-| Andrews, S. C.; Mary yfee Chil- etteville; James Withers of Day-] dress, Greenville, S. C.; Bea Robe- idson;
Charles R. Hunter of Blen-| son, Red Springs; Jeannette Mi- heim, S. C.; and Chatham C. Clark] chael, Charleston, S.
C, and Vir- and D. M. Calhoun of Elizabeth-| ginia Carey, Charlotte. town. These sponsors were bedecked The bride is
the daughter of Mr.| with flowers and sat on the side- and Mrs. J. R. Withers of David-| lines in
order to inspire their re- son. She is a graduate of Converse] spective teams, at the half they (Continued on
Page 6) were introduced to the audience. C 1936, The mcbanee —@ ghe-smoke OF RICH, RIPE-BODIED OBACCO—"“IT’S TOASTED”
