New Freshman Advisory System Is Suggested

The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Plans Are Made For Centennial Pageant

VOL. XXIV DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., DECEMBER 9, 1936 NO. 12

COMMENCEMENT PAGEANT MAY BE PRESENTED HERE

Mr. Theodore Viehman, Prominent Producer, Presents Plan to Students

GALA PROGRAM PLANNED To Celebrate Hundredth Anniversary of Founding Of Institution

The Committee on Centennial Program has decided to stage a pageant during the Centennial Celebration next spring. This pageant will depict in a series of dramatic episodes the background, history, and inspirations for the future of the college. Fortunately, the committee has been able to secure the services of Mr. Theodore Viehman, of New York City. Mr. Viehman has just successfully staged a pageant at the University of Alabama. He comes to the college highly recommended both personally and professionally, having had long experience in producing and staging college pageants. During his period of activity, he has participated in directing approximately forty pageants in various colleges and universities throughout the nation. Mr. Viehman expressed himself as being delighted with the situation at Davidson. During the week he was here, he studied carefully the history of the school and believes we have ample material for a dramatic story.

The Centennial Committee has designated Professor F. K. Fleagle as chairman of the pageant production committee to co-operate with Mr. Viehman and Professor E. J. Erwin as chairman of the committee to write the script for the different historical episodes. These men will be ably assisted by other members of the faculty and students. These tentative plans of the committee are subject to change, but the general idea is to stage the pageant under floodlights in the stadium on the Monday night of Commencement.

BAND IS HONORED: TO VISIT LOUISVILLE

Federation of Music Clubs Selects D. C. Band to Represent State

The Davidson College Symphonic Band has been selected by the executive committee of the North Carolina Federation of Music Clubs to represent the state at the Biennial of the National Federation of Music Clubs. This convention will be held in Louisville, Ky., the latter part of April. Plans are being made now whereby it will be possible to accept the Convention invitation. This selection is quite an honor, since at the convention there will be one organization from each state, those invited to attend being chosen on their merit as representatives.

(Continued on Page 6)

Former Instructor Returns To Campus

Major Weems, a former instructor in R. O. T. C. here at Davidson, revisited the campus during the past week. When he first came here as an instructor in R. O. T. C., in 1923, the officer corps was not functioning very strongly, there being at that time only two senior officers and three junior ones. However, when he left in 1927, we had an increased staff of officers and four men employed, teaching and working around the Armory. In the 1927 annual, there is a picture of the freshman wrestling team of which Captain Weems was coach, and a mention of the fact that they were undefeated.

While here, Major Weems expressed a very favorable opinion of the college as follows: “I take advantage of every opportunity to return to Davidson College and have come back during all my vacations I have had since I left here.”

Christmas Magazine To Appear Tuesday

The second edition of the “Scripts 'n Pranks” will appear in the local mailboxes about December 15. This edition will be full of Christmas news, Christmas jokes, Christmas joy, and whatnot, according to the editor, Hal Overton, and the magazine will be full of its usual humor, plus satire and rhyme. When the first edition of the “Scripts 'n Pranks” appeared on the campus, there was much interest shown. The interest for the second edition is running even higher than for the first one.

The front page was planned by Overton and will consist of something new dealing with Christmas. The inside will have a different effect for this issue. It is planned to have cartoons in color, which will be a new attraction. The cartoons will be contributed by Richard Vowles, Corbin, and Bob Miller.

STUDENT BODY VOICES OPINION

Davidson Students Go On Record Against Subsidization Of Athletes

“Should Davidson subsidize its football players?” was the first of four questions put before the student body in a questionnaire circulated at the chapel period on Monday morning, December 7. The questionnaire, sponsored by The Davidsonian, was designed to determine the students’ attitude toward several current campus problems. A count of the answers received was made Monday afternoon and revealed that 365 were opposed to the subsidization of Davidson athletics and that 137 men favored the subsidizing.

The second question, “Are required courses, as we have here, to the best interest of the students?” was answered affirmatively by 320 students, while 168 replied in the negative.

“Should Davidson increase its total enrollment to take care of those students who wish to attend this institution?” was answered negatively by 316 and affirmatively by 187 students.

The last of the four queries—“To which do you attach the greater honor and significance, Phi Beta Kappa or Omicron Delta Kappa?”—showed that a small majority of the students think more highly of Omicron Delta Kappa, the national honorary leadership fraternity. The figures showed that 273 men had stated their preference for Omicron Delta Kappa and 233 favored Phi Beta Kappa, the venerated honorary scholarship society.

Professors Will Go To Language Meeting

The 53rd annual meeting of the Modern Language Association of America will be held December 29, 30, and 31 at Richmond and Williamsburg, Va. Hosts will be the College of William and Mary and the University of Richmond. Associated with these meetings will be those of several local associations, including the South Atlantic Modern Language Association, which this year gave up its regular November meeting in order to merge for this year with the national body.

Of the Davidson faculty, it is probable that the meetings will be attended by Professors F. L. Blythe, W. P. Cumming, H. T. Lilly, E. J. Erwin, A. V. Goldiere, G. R. Vowles, and G. B. Watts and perhaps others. The annual meeting of the American Association of University Professors will be held at the same time and place.

DAVIDSON GRID SQUAD FETED BY “D” CLUB IN POST-SEASON BANQUET

Capt. Norton Prichett Speaks; Fred Smith Acts As Toastmaster

CORBIN GIVEN TROPHY Thirteen Varsity Men Receive Certificates

The “D” Club gave its first annual post-season banquet in honor of the 1936 Wildcat football squad in the banquet hall of Chambers Building last Wednesday night. Captain Norton Prichett was the speaker of the occasion while Joe Hunter, president of the “D” Club, presided and “Colonel” Fred Smith, Alumni Secretary, acted as toastmaster. During the evening, Tom Corbin, senior left halfback, was awarded the Tim Pharr Blocking Trophy by Coach Gene McEver as the best blocker on the team for the past season. Hugh A. Query, of Gastonia, also awarded monogram certificates to thirteen varsity players for their play on the Wildcat squad in the 1936 football season and three service letters to other members of the squad.

Present at this big banquet were a hundred persons, primarily members of the “D” Club. Some sports writers from the neighboring cities were present and also most of the members of the Athletic Association, representatives of the administration and faculty, and the members of the loyal second string team better known as the “All-Americans.”

Speakers called on for “a few words” of comment during the course of the entertainment included: Dick Johnson, captain of the football team for 1936, who affirmed that the Wildcats had played for the love of the sport and with no other motive in mind; Professor Archibald Currie presented the faculty outlook on athletics at Davidson; Jake Wade, leading prognosticator of southern football and writer for The Charlotte Observer, mentioned some of the smart football played by the team and lauded it in general for a successful season. Head Coach “Doc” Newton expressed his satisfaction with the team and the outcome of the season.

STUDENTS HEAR FOREMAN

Bible Professor Presents Imaginary Debate on Subject of Morals

FOREMAN vs. THE DEVIL Minister Speaks For Both Devil and Himself

Dr. K. J. Foreman, Professor of Bible and Philosophy here, presented an imaginary debate on the subject of morals, between himself and the Devil, in the vesper service last Sunday evening. He introduced the novel sermon in this manner: “I have asked to this service a guest, one who has been here often before, but never in an official capacity. He, an experienced debater, will try to disprove everything I say tonight and will in turn advance some of his own opinions. Our guest is none other than his majesty, the Devil.” He recommended to those persons who did not choose to accept the idea of personalized sin that they depersonalize the idea which he chose to personalize. Then Dr. Foreman summarized the arguments, “part lies, part half-truths,” advanced by his opponent and answered them. He concluded by reading the parable of the house built on the sands “beyond good and evil” and the one built on the rock of sound morals.

Dr. Foreman has been at Davidson for the last two years since he returned from a leave of absence during which he studied at Yale.

Mammoth Year Book To Come Out Earlier

Your temperamental French actress, Abernathy, blows up and divulges momentous secrets! Your press obtains a statement from a campus leader that is of great import to all Davidson. The 1937 edition of Quips 'n Cranks will bring you the unexpurgated annual before the grand finale. Built around the Centennial idea, a massive volume of 280 pages, 10 more than last year, is being prepared at a minimum cost of only 7,000 American dollars. Who made that crack about graft? It is $5 cheaper a page, each sheet averaging about $30. Through persevering, grilling, it was revealed that extra copies would sell for the minute sum of $5.

It is certain that Davidson College owes some part of the success it has achieved to its system for the advising and control of freshmen. One after another, progressive steps have been taken toward the goal of devising a perfect system of orientation and control that would help each freshman to take his place as a Davidson gentleman. The faculty, the Court of Control, the Y. Cabinet, and the student body in general have all contributed to this work. In the past, it has been directed by three student leaders: a Y cabinet member in charge of freshman work, the Judge of the Court of Control, and the senior adviser of the freshman class. Each one of these offices has been created with a different end in view, and the men who have held them have done good work in their own line. However, the time has come for all freshman work to be co-ordinated into a more workable system. As it now stands, the freshman cabinet member is on their own.First problems, in bounds and seeing to it that regulations are obeyed. After the critical period is over, the freshmen elect themselves an adviser from the senior class to represent them from then on. It will be noticed that the Y cabinet member and the senior adviser have duties which overlap considerably, and that the judge of the Court of Control works more or less at cross purposes with both of them. In order to eliminate this friction and to make the whole system more workable and efficient, the following plan is proposed as an amendment to the Constitution:

When freshmen first arrive at school, the Y cabinet gives them their first and most important insight into life at Davidson and advises them. After the orientation period, the freshmen come in contact with the Judge of the Court of Control, who performs the very important task of keeping them within bounds and seeing to it that freshman regulations are obeyed. Then, after they have been in school some months and their most critical period is over, the freshmen elect themselves an adviser from the rising senior class to represent them from then on.

The name of the Court of Control shall be changed to the Freshman Committee. The incoming senior class will elect one of their number to be president of the freshman class entering Davidson the following year. The president of the freshman class will, of course, be appointed chairman of the Freshman Committee. The other members of the committee will be appointed in accordance with the rules of the present Court of Control, that is, the senior members of the Student Council will appoint four seniors, two juniors, and two sophomores to be on the committee. The duties of this committee will be precisely those of the Court of Control, as outlined in Article X of the Student Body Constitution.

Whenever it is feasible, the president of the freshman class will take charge of freshman work for the Y. In this way, the entire freshman class will be under the leadership of one man, and all lost motion will be eliminated. One point that may be misunderstood and therefore deserves special emphasis is that the Freshman Committee will be appointed in exactly the same manner as the Court of Control and will perform exactly the same duties and functions that the court has in the past. The whole idea of the plan is this: the freshman class will have one leader throughout the year. They will be represented as a unit from the time they reach the campus, and instead of several conflicting leaders, they will have one man to whom they may look to help them become what Davidson tradition expects them to be.

PHI BETA KAPPA WILL HAVE FALL INITIATION AND BANQUET DEC. 11
Dr. Edwin Mims of Vanderbilt University Will Speak At Ceremony
ALUMNI TO BE PRESENT
Nine Students Are to Be Inducted on Friday

Phi Beta Kappa, honorary scholarship fraternity, will hold its annual fall initiation and banquet in the banquet hall of Chambers Building, at 7:30 on Friday, December 11. Members in loco, new initiates, and their friends and relatives are to attend. The initiation ceremony will be held at 7:30, to be followed by the banquet, at which Dr. Edwin Mims of Vanderbilt University will be the speaker.

The members in course, who will be present for the ceremony are the following: Frank A. Brown, Jr. of Hatchowli, China; Jack B. Branch, Washington, D. C.; Roy S. Bigham, Jr., Charlotte; John C. Lawanin, Greenville, S. C.; Kenneth M. Scott, Tsinanfu, China; R. H. Patterson, Trenton, Tenn.; I. G. Phurston II, Taylorsville; John Darlen Allen, Louisville, Ky.; Charles B. Ross, Jr., Charlotte.

Alumni members who will be present for the initiation are four members of the old Mimir Scholastic Society, predecessor of Phi Beta Kappa at Davidson, all members of the class of 1922; and one member of the class of 1910. There was no Scholastic Society in 1910. They are Mr. S. J. Millikan, ‘10, of Greeneville, Tenn.; Rev. James Bailey, of Davidson; Mr. Sprunt of Lynchburg, Va.; Dr. J. M. McD. Richards of Decatur, Ga.; and Dr. Julian P. Price of Florence, S.C. All of these men have achieved prominence in recent years. Prof. Bailey is professor of Greek at Davidson, Mr. Sprunt is pastor of the Westminster Presbyterian Church of Lynchburg, Dr. Richards is president of Columbia Theological Seminary at Decatur.

Dr. Mims, the annual speaker, is head of the Department of English at Vanderbilt University. He is very popular as a lecturer, and this summer was visiting lecturer in a number of British Universities, including St. Andrews and Edinburgh. He has spoken at Davidson a number of times and has always been well received.

"Y" CABINET TO CANVASS STUDENTS FOR GIFT FUND
Deadline For Photos Is Set For Tuesday

The deadline for photographic competition featuring studies of Davidson life is December 14th. This contest is sponsored by The Davidsonian and there will be three prizes: first, $5.00; second, $3.00, and third, $2.00. Judges for the competition are Fred Smith and Dr. S. C. Lyon, who will consider composition, general interest, and photographic ability. The first prize winner will be published in The Davidsonian, and about six of the best entries will be sent in to the Collegiate Digest for use in their photogravure section.

SMITH ISSUES NEW MAGAZINE
Thirty Page Alumni Journal To Contain Stories on Centennial Plans

The largest Alumni Journal ever to be edited at Davidson will be sent out by Fred Smith on Saturday. This journal will contain a large number of stories on the Centennial plans and on the alumni of this college. The thirty pages will be bound by an attractive three-colored cover depicting the front of Chambers. There will be three pictures showing the proposed new library, infirmary, and gym. These will be followed by a survey of the eight greatest needs of the Davidson students. This list not only includes the three inset pictured buildings but also the new social center, church, science building, dormitory, and increased endowment.

The issue also carries the first story of the seven men that have recently received Rhodes Scholarships from Davidson. Their pictures will run along with the story. Other stories in this issue will include one on the prominent graduates of Davidson College that have made good in the insurance field.

Roemert Will Talk Tuesday
Dr. Franz Roemert, noted lecturer, has been secured to deliver two addresses on Tuesday, December 15. The morning chapel hour will be lengthened to permit Dr. Roemert to speak at that time, and the second address will be given that evening at 8 o'clock in Chambers auditorium. Dr. Roemert has announced his subject as "Microvivarium." He is an expert on this theme. Dr. Roemert will illustrate his lectures with a machine which enables a large audience to view on a screen what a single person can see with the aid of a microscope. Dr. Roemert’s exhibition was shown in the Hall of Science at the Chicago World’s Fair two years ago. Students who attended the fair may remember seeing the exhibit.

Dr. Edwin Mims, who precedes Dr. Roemert in this year’s series of lectures, will speak on the 11th.

Dr. E. F. Shewmake Is Charlotte Lecturer
Dr. Shewmake addressed the Presbyterian Ministers Association in Charlotte, Monday morning, December 7th. The subject of his interesting lecture was "English and the Minister." The meeting was held in the First Presbyterian Church. Dr. Shewmake has won wide recognition by his brilliant work in the English field, having gone so far as to publish a book on the subject.

Money Will Go For Electric Plant at Mutoto Mission in Africa
WILL DRIVE FOR $800
Dr. C. L. Crane May Speak in Interest of Soliciting

“We want every boy, or as many as possible, to give something, no matter how small,” said Frank Brown, Y. M. C. A. cabinet member, in charge of the campaign for the Christmas Gift Fund which is given annually to some meritorious project by the Davidson student body. Some time ago the cabinet agreed that the fund this year would be used in furnishing an electric plant for Mutoto Hospital and the Morrison Bible School at Mutoto in Belgian Congo.

Frank Brown also announced that December 15, 16, and 17 had been set as the dates for the actual drive to raise the $800 which the Y cabinet has selected as the goal for the present campaign. According to plans of the organization, there will be men on each hall in the dormitories to receive contributions and there will be a chart on the bulletin board showing the comparative amounts given by each dormitory. As a special feature, it is very probable that Dr. C. L. Crane, a Davidson graduate and one of the outstanding men connected with the mission at Mutoto, will speak at the chapel period at some time during the course of the drive. Dr. Crane is spending his furlough in Davidson this year. Two other Davidson alumni, Rev. Plummer Smith and Mr. William Worth, are also giving valuable service in this work.

The Morrison Bible School is under the supervision of the missionary ladies, who, with the assistance of 15 male teachers, attempt to educate, train, and convert entire families of natives as a single group. The men are thoroughly educated in theological matters in order that they may be useful in native work. The Mutoto Hospital, directed by Dr. and Mrs. Vinsley Smith, has five graduate male nurses and ten student nurses. The hospital keeps a special ward for sleeping sickness patients and has just recently installed a similar ward for lepers. The electric plant for which the gift is to go would be very beneficial to the hospital as doctors are unable to make operations except in special cases at night, due to the danger of operating by kerosene lamp.

SOPHOMORE DANCES PROVE BIG SUCCESS
Set Features Jelly Leftwich And Kay Keever

The weekend of December 4 and 5 was highlighted by the set of sophomore dances which was held on the weekend of Dec. 4 and 5, featuring the music of Jelly Leftwich and with the glamorous Kay Keever as torch singer. The initial dance of the set was held on Friday night from nine till two, and was a formal affair. A unique figure was presented by Bob McClellan, president of the class, and Miss Dell Sutherland of Charlotte. The armory was the scene of the dances and was attractively decorated in blue and white, the class colors. The present figure was made up of a representative from each of the nine fraternities and their dates and two non-fraternity men and their dates.

A tea dance was held Saturday afternoon from four to seven and the final affair was an informal dance from eight to twelve Saturday night. The dances were very well attended and were enthusiastically acclaimed as one of the best sets ever held here. Jelly Leftwich is always popular with Davidson students and this proved no exception to the rule.