Page Four THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 1936

WILDCATS TRAMPLE COLONELS; WAKE TOPPLES ERSKINE

SPORTS AFIELD

TURKEY DAY TILT PROMISES TO BE THRILLER

Cats Overwhelm Centre in Exciting Battle

Didn't the Ace (Parker) and his mates take “Bear” Wolf's Tar Heel eleven over the bumps, though? One hundred yards is a long way, but the Ace raced five more than that. Tom Burnette wasn't daunted by the sheer brilliance of the unstoppable Dukes, but his valiant efforts were wasted. Poor old Jim Hutchins (only 19 years old) closed the worst season of his career by being the target of taunts and jeers from the confident Devil eleven. If I ever get a chance to vote where it counts, here’s one vote for Parker for All-American, seconded by O'Mara, Hackney and the others.

Teeny Gallops (5,000) saw the ‘Cats take a game but helpless Centre team to the cleaners to the tune of: 27-0. Teeny Lafferty showed his zip and fire of early season—all galloping 33 yards for a well-earned tally. He was a projectile shot from a long-range gun—so fast and straight for the goal he sped. Ed Armfield scored once, but the real Tate goes to Ed for one of the greatest gridiron performances in his career. He caught the first pass of his stay at Davidson, but the play was called back. Fred Dennis, after scoring once, galloped 65 yards with an intercepted aerial—and called back. Williams, Hunter, Jim Johnston, Purdy and Captain Dick Johnson continued their sterling play.

Jim Johnston says all consideration for Tom Corbin, as a cripple, is past. When the game ended, Jim ran for the ball, but the so-called “cripple,” Corbin, whirlwind rushed past him in a sprint that left Yentz little to do but watch him. Poor Nick! Bill Nicholson seems to be ever known as someone else. When the team went to Greenville he was introduced by George Mathis to the curious fans as Teeny Lafferty. After catching two beautiful passes Saturday, he read Sunday where not Bill Nicholson but Jim Sample had caught the two passes. So I say “Poor Nick.”

Methuselah King

Chubby King also resigned himself to a bitter fate Saturday. Enjoying the game thoroughly, he overheard the following comment: “They ain't gonna put that King in. He's old. He's so brittle, they're afraid he'll get hurt.” Chubby consoles himself with the programs’ showing where, through error, his age was listed as 32 (his jersey number). Those small lads still believe Chubby is a bit old to be playing football.

The Davidson football team isn't the only Davidson team to fight! The 'Cat soccer team fought the favored High Point players to a stand-still only to fall before the smooth passing and dribbling attack of the Pointer forward line. The Cats, led by Charlie Elder, Charlie Bixler, Sam Cothran, Graham and Howard McFadyen, Ken Scott, and Gene Vogler, were splendid in their play. If you really want to enjoy a comparatively new sport on the Davidson campus go to see the next contest played here—you'll return an enlightened and ardent fan.

A Suggestion

Where is our score board? This is the most universal comment of spectators at our football games this fall. We had a rather antiquated scaffold that served to keep the less attentive fan informed, but now even this old familiar landmark has disappeared. State, Duke, Carolina, Furman—all of our neighbors have the new type electric boards. Why can’t we get one of these boards? We've played to about 80,000 people this year—why can't the college afford one? If this Centennial year is one of improvement, let’s start with a new score board.

(Continued on Page 6)

WILDCATS PREPARE FOR HARD GAME AGAINST DEACS

Previous Scores Sees Favor Wake Forest Eleven; Has Lost Three Games

PLAY ON THANKSGIVING

Teams Close Season in Traditional Battle

Duke, State, Navy, Carolina—only build-ups for the traditional meeting of the Fighting Wildcats of Davidson and the Demon Deacons of Wake Forest in a gridiron battle royal. The twenty-sixth is also Thanksgiving day, but the turkey will run a poor second in importance as interest in the coming contest approaches a fever pitch.

Wake Is Powerful

Wake Forest boasts one of the best teams in its history this year, displaying exceptionally good ball all season. Their first gridiron encounter ended in a 14-7 victory for Carolina, but the Deacons were anything but annihilated. Paced by Dallas Morris, they led for three quarters only to have the Tar Heels score twice in the closing minutes of play.

Five teams have fallen before the onslaught of the powerful Deacons this season, including the N. C. State Wolfpack and the Clemson Tigers—two of the most formidable elevens in the Southern Conference. George Washington eked out a 14-13 victory in the last minute of play, and Duke’s phenomenal Blue Devils triumphed 20-0 in one of the best fought games played in the South this year.

Sing Swan Song

Ten stalwarts will don the Red and Black uniform for the last time Thanksgiving Day. They are Captain Dick Johnson, John Lee, Joe Hunter, Yentz Johnston, Tom Corbin, Ed Armfield, Charlie Sears, Tom Thurston, Frank Purdy and Loch Vass. These men will be giving all they have to preserve Coach Newton's record of never losing a game to Wake Forest in his four years as head coach. By virtue of previous scores, the Deacons will enter the game the favorites. However, in a rivalry as keen as this, past records mean little.

INTRAMURAL TOURNEY PROGRESSES RAPIDLY

Seniors Lead; Juniors and Sophomores Trail

With the Seniors still undefeated the first two sets of the second round of Intramural Volley Ball were played off Monday. The Seniors beat the Frosh and the Juniors over-ran the Sophomores to start off the series. The next two games, the Seniors and Juniors again emerged victorious, defeating the Sophomores and Freshmen respectively. Last Friday, the Seniors shoved the Juniors, previously tying with them for first place, down into second place by taking two straight games 21-15 and 21-18. The Sophomores took their first win from an outclassed Frosh team by two straight games, 21-1 and 21-3. Monday, the Seniors gave the Freshmen their fourth defeat, after the Freshmen had threatened by winning the first game 22-20. The Juniors defeated the Sophomores by winning the first game, 21-8, losing the second, 15-21, and winning the last by 21-10. Intramural volley ball closed today. Referees for these games have been Mokey Faison and A. M. Cumbie. Intrafraternity volley ball will start tomorrow when the Betas play the Phi Gams, and the SPE’s

MATCH METTLE IN TURKEY DAY FRAY

Shown below are the coaches whose teams will fight it out on the field. Seated, from left to right, are Coaches McEver, Chapman, and “Doc” Newton of Davidson. On their right is Murray Greason, the Wake Forest mentor. Below the coaches is a trio of Demon Deacon stars.Great football in his last year.

DAVIDSON VARSITY COACHES

Thanksgiving Day on Richardson

First on the left is Bert Shore, adept pass- Next in line is: Dallas Morris, fleet season. On the extreme right is Quar-

BERT SHORE - END
DALLAS MORRIS - HALFBACK

HIGH POINT DEFEATS D.C. IN INITIAL TILT BY NARROW MARGIN

Davidson Soccer Team Led By C. Bixler and Vogler in Losing Fight

Davidson opened its soccer season by dropping a hard-fought game to a strong High Point team, 2-1. Davidson was seriously handicapped by the loss of Al Bixler, star forward, who twisted his knee badly, and had to be removed from the game early in the opening stanza. High Point exhibited a well-knit offense that clicked for goals in the second and fourth periods. Graham McFadyen, reserve forward, had tied the score with a beautiful goal in the third period, but a penalty kick with but seven minutes (Continued on Page 6)

Meet the Phi Delts. Friday the Kappa Sigs will clash with the SAE's and the Pi Kappa Phi’s will meet the Pikas. A Faculty and Freshman volleyball game will be played sometime between the end of the interclass volleyball and the start of the interfraternity series.

LIGHTING FIXTURES, ELECTRICAL APPLIANCES, GROCERIES
M. H. GOODRUM & CO.
Zenith and RCA Radios
415 South Tryon Street

FAUL & CRYMES, INC.
SPORTING GOODS
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

WALTER KITCHIN - QUARTER

WILDCAT BASKETEERS PROMISE TO EXHIBIT BEST FIVE IN YEARS

Laird Says Team To Possess Height, Speed, and Scoring Accuracy

Davidson’s 1937 edition of the hardwood courts will have height, speed, and scoring accuracy, according to Coach Flake Laird, varsity coach. Practice has been held three nights weekly but starting next week practice sessions will be held in the afternoon. Scrimmage will also begin at this time. A tough scramble for the first five positions on the team is promised between the lettermen from last year’s quint and the flaming sophomores from last year’s frosh team. (Continued on Page 6)

FAST CAROLINA RUNNERS BEAT WILDCAT TEAM

Tar Heels Prove Too Powerful For Davidson’s Distance Runners

The Wildcat cross-country team was defeated here last Friday afternoon by a faster Carolina team by a score of 18-49. Hendricks, of Carolina, came in first, his time being 27:19 minutes over the five-mile course. Walker came in third for Davidson, and there was only four seconds’ time between the first and third men. The Davidson varsity squad will go to Chapel Hill to participate in the Southern Conference meet, which will be the last conference competition of the season for them. The order in which the runners (Continued on Page 6)

P. H. HANES KNITTING CO., Winston-Salem, N.C.

“I lost my shirt... and found Wildcats Too Powerful; Win Over Centre, 27-0

Subs Take Over Duties in Fourth Quarter; Score Touchdown By Pass From Sears To Iverson

ARMFIELD SCORES EIGHTH TOUCHDOWN

Blocking Main Feature of ’Cats’ Successful Offensive Against Centre’s Sturdy Line

Davidson’s fighting Wildcats, stronger than ever, rampaged in Charlotte’s new American Legion Memorial Stadium with a 27-0 victory over the Prayin’ Colonels from Centre Saturday afternoon.

Freshmen Are Set For Final Game of Year

The Davidson Wildkittens will meet the Blue Ridge School for Boys here Saturday, November 21, at 2:30, in the last scheduled game of the football season. The Wildkittens have not fared so well this year, losing three and winning one but with the full strength of the team on the field Saturday they should be able to take Blue Ridge. Members of the team, who were ineligible in games played away from home will be eligible to play in this game. So far this season, Hunter and Rackley in the Kitten backfield have stood out, while Rice and Richmond have been the stalwarts of the line. The initial call for frosh cage hopefuls will be issued immediately following the close of the football season.

FROSH HARRIERS BOW TO CAROLINA RUNNERS

Tar Babies Trounce Kittens In Closing Meet

The Davidson Freshman cross-country team was defeated here Saturday by the Carolina Freshman team by a score of 18-43. This was the last cross-country meet of the season for the Freshman team. The Carolina runners led the field all the way in this meet. Davis and Hardage of Carolina tied for first place. The winning time was nine minutes, thirty-two seconds for the 1.8-mile course. The order in which the runners placed in this meet were as follows: Davis (C) and Hardage (C), first (tied); Troutman (C), third; Davidson (C), fourth; Kenyon (D), fifth; Joe Gammon (D), sixth; Dick Gammon (D), seventh; Hamilton (C), eighth; Fink (C), ninth; Blalock (C), tenth; Moore (C), eleventh; Fitzgerald (D), twelfth; Gilliam (D), thirteenth; Miller (D), fourteenth; McFadyen (D), fifteenth. (Continued on Page 6)

THIS WEEK WE SALUTE

COLOR: Royal Purple
PHI GAMMA DELTA
Founded at Jefferson College, May 1, 1848.
73 Active Chapters.
FLOWER: Purple Clematis

Delta Kappa Officers
RUSSELL PATTERSON, Pres.
HOWELL OVERTON, Treas.
HAROLD SUGG, Historian
TYLER PORT, Sec.
BOB STEWART, C. S.

MARION DAVIS
205 South Tryon St.
CHARLOTTE’S LEADING MEN’S STORE