HONOR ROLL

Bill Taber Picks Bill Dyerly and Frank Parker as Indoor Track Stars.

By HARRY KUYKENDALL

The following bits of news from the Wildcats’ baseball camp may not have originated from Florida or Catalina like the big leaguers, but one thing is certain: the locals have just as much enthusiasm as the Deanes themselves. They're glad to get back to the old sandlot. Approximately thirty men showed up for Flake Laird’s initial drill Monday and went through their paces after a brief limbering up. Among the rookies reporting were Bill Quick, Hank Loftin, Johnny Partridge, Jack Summerville, Asbury Howard, Jim Dickson, “Judge” Cathey, Carlos Young, and “Robt. E. Lee” Heake, veterans of last year’s squad. Other members who haven't appeared for practice because of football or other engagements are Tom Corbin, Wood Burns, and Jack Jenkins. These men are expected later. From last year’s frosh team comes “E” and “G” Ganier, Elwood Moyer, Bill Bankhead, Joe Kellam, Bill Manson, Jewell McLaurin, and possibly “Teeny” Lafferty, Spencer Goodman, Bailey Williams, and one or two others after spring football terminates. Newcomers to the squad are Bill Yearwood, Milton Crisp, Doug Neal, Bill Yelverton, Don Stuart, and Luther Morris.

In talking over plans for the season, Laird stated that he wanted to give plenty of individual attention this year. “Work, attitude, and effort will go a long way in determining who makes the team. All we want to do is put the nine best boys out there and as far as I’m concerned, there are nine places open for any man who is willing to work for them.” Flake stated that he had been informed that Davidson “won't have much of a ball club” this year, but I don't see why. We have some good boys here, a good schedule, and we want to make a better showing.” Manager Lenfield seconded Laird with “we're gonna’ have a state championship team.”

Track Coach Pete Whittle stated “our men came along fine” at the indoor track meet in spite of the lone point made by the ’Cats. Bill Dyerly, who placed fourth in the non-conference 70-yard high hurdles, ran “the best we've ever seen him run” added Pete. “Most of our men were in too fast company.” Whittle pointed out that there was more competition in the non-conference division than in the more popular conference events. “I believe he (Dyerly) would have tied for first” in the latter. Pete also had plenty of praise for Walker, a freshman who, although he was boxed into a fourth place, showed splendid promise. “It was the best indoor meet they've had” said Pete in closing.

“Doc” Newton came in for a share of the interviewing and when asked about chances for breaking even on next year’s grid schedule, replied “I don't see how we can do that.” However, Doc pointed out that they are “doing pretty well” in spring practice, indicating possibilities for some upsets. When asked “who is going to do the kicking?” Coach replied that he was giving a lot of personal attention to Lafferty. “If he improves in the next two weeks like he has in the last few days, he'll be O.K.” In discussing next year’s schedule with Navy, Newton added that the midshipmen showed “an awful lot of weaknesses” in their game with Army this fall. Newton will coach the frosh baseball team this year for the first time, and local fans are hoping that he'll have some of the success that characterized his world champion nine this past summer.

Davidson's experienced and formidable golf team will be coached this year by Bill McGavock. The new mentor, who perhaps is better known as Professor McGavock, is...

IN OFFING FOR ‘CAT CAGEMEN

Sophomores and Juniors Prove Valuable During Unsuccessful Season

PEABODY OUTSTANDING

Team Shows Improvement As Season Progresses

A little over a week ago now, the 1936 Wildcats Basketball team ended its season. Yes, to be truthful, an unsuccessful one, but not one to be abhorred or apologized for too much as there is this light breaking through the blackness which has shrouded the team—the team continued to show improvement as the season progressed. A team composed of some men who had never before played college basketball and whose veterans were veterans of only one season at the most. During the season past, the Davidson quintet played nineteen games against a variety of teams. Eight of these games were played against Big Five opponents and against whom the Wildcats exhibited the traditional “Cat spirit” even if they did not win. Three Virginia schools and several other North Carolina schools completed the schedule of the cagers this season.

The season brought forth many noteworthy players, among whom Co-Captain Morris Peabody was outstanding for his scoring when he played the forward position. Along with Peabody in the high scoring was lanky Bill Hancock, the center, who was a newcomer to the ranks of the Davidson lineup. Marr and Bill Quick, two other juniors, did some good scoring and excellent playing. These four men hardly let a game go by without seeing action, and one or the other of them led the team as his form happened to be running. Barrow, Riesewetter, and Kidd are not to be forgotten when the final count is made for they all turned in good performances the whole season, although they are all sophomores and were new to the team. John Armstrong and Dick Cathey were tight there the entire season, coming in very often to take up the fight when the going got tough.

Throughout the season it was very evident that one of the principal faults of the Wildcats was their erring aim, especially when they cut loose with a foul shot. This is what Coach Flake Laird had to say when asked to comment on the team and season now that the smoke of battle has blown away, “I thought they played good basketball toward the end of the season and all of their games then were close, scrappy ones. We won't lose a single man from the squad next year and we should have a much better team, too, if the boys will get out this spring and work hard.” Coach expressed the opinion when pressed as to the main fault of the nine that, “The inability to hit the basket was the principal deficiency, and good defensive ball the best point of the team.”

Co-Captain Billy Quick expressed the following ideas at the end of the season, “The team was hampered by inexperience and lack of height, but we will not lose a man next year and will be in much better form. They will have to reckon with us next year.” This last, Capt. Quick said quite emphatically. He also expressed hopes of an invitation to the conference tournament, if we enter, because, he said, “there are some good freshmen coming up next year, and, too, we will have had the valuable experience gained this season.”

Following the recent Southern Conference tournament held at Raleigh, at which the Carolina White Phantoms won top honors, Coach Laird said in regard to next year’s...

Greys Trounce Reds In Third Game

Hand Snags Pass For Ten Yard Jaunt Over Last Marker

ED ARMFIELD SCORES

Greys Lead With Two Victories to Reds One

The Grey team finally showed the punch it packs when it trounced the Reds Saturday afternoon in the third game of the spring football series, 19-14. The Reds now lead two games to one. In the first game, both teams showed the need of practicing together, and the lack of timing hampered both teams severely. Matching the Greys’ power thrusts with an aerial attack, the Reds chalked up the lone score of the game when Parks Hand snagged a pass center and dashed the remaining ten yards for a touchdown. Teeny Lafferty, George Mathis, and Dick Johnston were the Grey stars, while Charlie Sears, Chubby King, and Haywood Hill led the victors’ attack.

The second game played last Wednesday saw the Reds again emerge victorious, this time by a score of 12-6. The outstanding feature of this game was Ed Armfield’s long run for a touchdown after intercepting a pass intended for the Greys’ right end, Bob McClelland. On this play Chubby King ran interference in masterful style, and he finally blocked the last Red man, Teeny Lafferty, to pave the way for the score. The Greys opened the scoring with Frank Harrison accounting for the touchdown. Late in the game, with the score in favor of the Greys, the Reds blocked a punt, and Bailey Williams covered the rolling pigskin in the end zone for the Reds’ first six points. Then Ken Armfield’s long jaunt climaxed the day and sent the Reds to the showers victorious. Armfield, Williams, and King were the Red luminaries, and Nicholson, Frank Harrison, and Lafferty led the Greys.

Next Year’s Grapplers

Charles Parker was elected captain of next year’s wrestling team at a meeting of the wrestling team Monday night, March 2. Jack Branch was elected varsity wrestling manager. Parker has been a consistent winner on the team for the past two seasons, and this season’s record shows two-time decisions and one fall over Big Five opponents. Branch is a member of Phi Delta Theta social fraternity. Jeff Moore was the other junior manager, and the two junior managers for next year are Sam Lowe and Jerry Harris.

NET TOURNEY PROCEEDS TO SECOND ROUND

Speculation Rife Over Positions on ’36 Net Team as Season Opens

Popular speculation over the strength of this year’s tennis team appeared to incline to a very hopeful outlook, as the annual spring tournament went into its second round yesterday, and the courts swarmed with activity. The six net artists who will most often represent Davidson on the courts this spring will probably be drawn from a field of four lettermen and two reserves from last year’s varsity squad, and the two top-ranking members of last year’s freshman team, but it is still too early to determine in what order these men will rank. Captain Carlyle Lewis appears to be a sure bet for the number one position, in view of his wide and successful tournament experience and good showing in other top-ranking positions on last year’s team. The shoes of Phifer and Elvery, numbers two and four last year, will be amply filled by the two sophomore members of this year’s squad, Bronston Kenny and Larry Frampton, who may see service in about those same positions on the 1936 team. Jake Morrow and George Hornbeck are lettermen who are looking good in practice tilts, and Martin Barnett, number-three man in '35, is slowly rounding into form.

The Greys’ power was too much for the fighting Reds, and Teeny Lafferty’s second touchdown sprint proved the winning margin. Ed Armfield accounted for both of the loser’s scores with long runs, but Bailey Williams’ superb down-field blocking was largely instrumental for both scores. Lafferty’s first score came after a 10-yard run, and Tom Corbin bucked over for a second much-disputed touchdown. Then came Lafferty’s second score to sew up the game for the Greys. Williams converted both points for the Reds, while Mathis kicked the Greys’ lone goal. Lafferty, Dick Johnson, Mathis, and Hunter starred for the winners, while Armfield, Williams, Hill, and Sears led the Reds. The Greys’ victory margin was 19-14.

The score now stands at two for the Reds and one for the Greys, but in the remaining two weeks, with games on Wednesdays and Saturdays, the outcome is far from being settled. Both teams are much improved, and, if you want to see a first-rate football game, come down to Richardson Field some Wednesday or Saturday in the next two weeks.

Varsity Golf Team

These eight men have been seeded in the spring tournament, but only two of them, Barnett and Carson...have as yet played a match, the rest drawing byes until the second round. Barnett defeated Andy Allen, and Carlson won over Charlie Moore. Leonard Woodward and Wade Foes, strong “dark horses” in the tourney race, defeated A. Shelby and Tom Cameron, respectively, while other first-round matches resulted as follows: Lloyd Feuchtenberger defeated Hiells Young, Jim Reinhardt defeated Charlie Crane, Herman Yearwood defeated James Hartzog, Gordon Woodward defeated Owen Cooke.

Flaming Five Contest Narrowed To Six Men Ends Midnight Friday

Clubs swing on the golf links as competition narrows down to the four who will represent Davidson on the golf team this spring. Four lettermen, Bill Snow, Charlie Ross, Ralph McClelland, and George Cowan all returned and have good chances of making the varsity. Last week ten players covered 36 holes at the Carolina Country Club in Charlotte to eliminate the first few. The low six were selected to play once more this week when the lowest four will automatically become the varsity with the fifth as an alternate. Captain Bill Snow expects the home matches to be transferred to the Charlotte course. The first tourney, “We'll be there next year, if I have to hire a team of mules to get there.” We will be pulling for you harder than ever next year, Cats. Good luck!

One phase of Harvard's 300th anniversary celebration will be the payment of $300,000 to the Cambridge city treasury if the college honors a resolution passed by the city council.

An ardent golf enthusiast and shoots in the low seventies himself. Catawba will be on March 18. Davidson will be represented from the group who scored lowest in the two rounds of golf. The score last week was: Charlie Ross, 79-73, Harrison Maples, 77-76, Ralph McClelland, 79-82, Bill Snow, 81-76, George Cowan, 87-78, and Jim Westall, 83-84. Others who played were Stuart Barnes, Al Price, Irving Bull, and George Norfleet. Charlie Ross has been arranging matches with other schools. Professor McGavock has assisted the team as an advisor.

The Charlotte Observer's annual Flaming Five contest is rapidly drawing to a close, and for the first time in the past four or five years no Davidson athlete is included in the leaders. With Silent Sam Lankford, eccentric Shelby pitcher, and Hump Snyder, Carolina football ace, leading the procession, this contest will close Friday night, March 13. Paul Pittman and Dick Johnson are in the contest but they have received no support from the student body. The ballot must be an official Observer ballot (in each day's paper), and must be postmarked before midnight Friday. Let's vote for our stars and not be left out of the contest altogether!

HELPS PREVENT MANY COLDS
Especially designed aid for nose and upper throat, where most colds start.
Regular Size....30¢
Double Quantity 50¢
VATRO-NOL

PORTS AFIELD (A. A. U. STARS)

SCHEDULED TO ARRIVE FRIDAY FOR TOURNEY
Blackwelder, Hodgin, Parker, And Ellis Enter Meet For Davidson
UNGER WILL PRESIDE
Olympic Sectional Tryouts Also to Be Held

Davidson College will be hosts to the A. A. U. and Olympic tryouts here on March 13th and 14th. The officials originally planned to hold only the Amateur Athletic Union finals here but the two were combined. The Olympic sectional tryouts will be held here at the same time as the A. A. U. The rules for the Olympic tryouts are vastly different from the collegiate rules which have been used here and throughout the country for the past few seasons. The collegiate rules call for a ten-minute bout with both contestants starting from a standing position and proceeding without time out except for an injury, and of course ending with a fall. The Olympic tryouts will differ in that the contestants will be subject to a fifteen-minute bout. The wrestlers start at a standing position as in college competition and continue for six minutes. If during the six minutes, one of the contestants gains a time advantage, then his opponent has one point scored against him by the judges. There are three judges and a referee. Five of these points eliminate a contestant from further competition in the matches.

At the end of the six-minute period, then the referee flips a coin to determine which of the wrestlers goes “down” first in the referee's position. For four and a half minutes, that contestant is officially “down” and in the case he comes out and gains an advantage over his opponent, then one point is scored against the opponent, but unless he pins his opponent while “down,” he must give up that advantage and go “down” again until the four and a half minute period is up. The contestant who has a fall scored against him is automatically eliminated. If the match is not won by a fall, the three judges determine the winner by the “point” system.

During the past season, the Wildcat matmen won five of their nine matches, and lost by slim margins, four matches to Appalachian (by 2 points), to V. P. I. (by 20 points), to N. C. State (by 6 points), to U. N. C. (by 2 points). The Wildcats scored 153½ points to their opponents' 123½. Coach “Doc” Unger used fifteen men throughout the season. The most outstanding of these were: Captain Blackwelder, who won all matches this season. Blackwelder has won 21 straight victories. Blue won four bouts. Hodgin and Parker won 6 and 7 bouts respectively. Davis won 2 bouts, McFadyen won 3, and Owen, Summerell, Crabb, and Brown won 1 match each.

WHO DID?

It was decided that two small boys, brothers, and a neighbor's son should all have their tonsils removed at the same time. Never having been in a hospital before, they were all bright-eyed and curious. The three of them were in one room and when the nurse came in to take their temperatures before the operations, they watched with eager eyes. They were bursting with questions, they fell respectively silent until she had removed the thermometers, taken the readings, and was about to leave the room. Then the youngest could restrain himself no longer and blurted eagerly; “Who won?”

New Managers Chosen For Basketball Squad

Tommy Thompson was elected manager of the varsity basketball squad for next year by the vote of the varsity squad and coaches last Wednesday morning, March 4, and at the same time John Anderson was chosen to serve as the manager for the freshman team. Thompson is a member of the Kappa Sigma social fraternity, is a Cadet Sergeant in the local ROTC battalion, and has served on the editorial staff of QUIPS AND CRANKS for the last three years. Anderson is a member of the Kappa Alpha social fraternity and Sigma Pi Sigma honorary fraternity and is a Cadet Sergeant in the ROTC unit.

KITTEN TRACK SQUAD BEGINS TO GAIN FORM
Frosh Prepare For Six Meet Schedule With Ample Material

HONOR ROLL
Ed Armfield and Teeny Lafferty Chosen Spring Football Stars

Duke University Takes Championship In Track
Deyerle Looks Good For Davidson By Placing Fourth In High Hurdles
TOWNS BREAKS RECORD
UNC, Defending Champions, Place Second to Devils

Duke University easily won the Southern Conference indoor track and field championships held at Chapel Hill March 7. North Carolina, the defending champions, placed second to the Blue Devils. Navy and Georgia carried off high honors in the non-conference division of the meet. Bill Deyerle garnered Davidson's only points of the meet by taking fourth in the 70-yard high hurdles. In this race, the old record was far bettered by Forest Towns, Georgia's world-champion hurdler. Davidson's first outdoor track meet will be with Furman, March 25, in Greenville. Coach Whittle expects his proteges to be in good shape before this meet. Davidson was represented by 16 men at the indoor meet but so stiff was the competition particularly among the non-conference group, that Dyerly was the only one to come through. According to Coach Pete Whittle, Faison and Parker were up against too much competition while the relay team occupied a similar position as it had to compete against such teams as Navy.

Preparing for their opening meet with the Furman Frosh on March 25, the freshman track men have been working out steadily since February 14, and, according to Coach “Pete” Whittle, some pretty good prospects are developing. Among those who have showed up well thus far are Bill Hickman in the 440 and the sprints, John Tice in the low hurdles and the broad jump, Bill Boyd in the high hurdles and the broad jump, Friberg in the low hurdles and the 440, Bob McClelland, “Little Six” Johnston, Dave Warden and Charlie Edwards in the shot put, McClelland in the discus, “Swede” Johnson in the javelin, “Boo” Walker, Tom Abbot, and Dave Woodward in the mile, and “Little Pip” Harrison, Charlie Bixler, D. C. W. Sample and Sherrard Rice in the pole vault. Other men have been training regularly but have not yet decided exactly what they will try out for. The schedule is as follows: March 25, Furman Frosh at Greenville, S. C.; April 4, Presbyterian Junior College at Davidson; April 9, Wofford Frosh at Davidson; April 18, V. P. I. Frosh at Blacksburg; April 25, P. C. Frosh, at Davidson; May 2, State Meet, at Chapel Hill.

Arizona State Men Help Dedicate Tomb
(By Associated Collegiate Press)

Melton, Monroe Wicker; Broad Jump: Maurice Peabody, Walt Dickson, Melton; Pole Vault: John Lee, Paul Pittman, Fort; Shot Put: Six Johnson, George Tipton, Dick Johnson, “Willie” Vause; Discus: Jim Johnston, George Tipton, “Willie” Vause; Javelin: Jim Johnston, “Johnny” Moseley, “Johnny” Pearce.

Arizona State College here played an important part in the dedication of a tomb to Philip Tedro, or Hadji Ali, Arabian camel driver who played a minor role in the making of United States history. Military men and desert rats corrupted Tedro’s Arabian name to “Hi Jolly” when he came to Arizona in pre-Civil War days as a driver of camels imported from Arabia as a transportation experiment. The experiment failed because the camels were “not adapted to the hard desert rocks, they were turned loose to roam at will, and Hi Jolly was left as the sole remaining evidence of the unique attempt. Hi Jolly died in 1912, and his body lay in an unmarked grave at Quartzsite, Ariz., seventy-five miles from Tempe, until state officials erected a tomb over it.

Before the Dances, Visit
NORTON’S BARBER SHOP
Drugs Sodas

Best Wishes for Junior Speaking!
White Drug Store
Prescriptions Sundries

DAVIDSON DEBATERS
(Continued from Page 3)

Wilbur Edwards and Harold Sugg left on Monday for a trip to four colleges in Tennessee, Kentucky, and Virginia. They will meet teams from the University of the South, Centre, University of West Virginia, and Washington and Lee.

USE Re-New Cleaner On Your White Shoes
BUFF SHOE SHOP
One Trial Will Convince You

STATIONERY NOTEBOOKS PENCILS TO SUIT ALL NEEDS
SOUTHERN 5 & 10¢ STORE