THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 11, 1936

Thieves Break Into Home of T. W. Lingle

New Typewriter Is Most Valuable Article Taken in Robbery

FURNITURE ONLY TAKEN

Dr. Lingle Was in Charlotte at Time of Theft

Thief! Thief! Home of Dr. T. W. Lingle is burglarized! On Wednesday, March 4, Dr. Lingle returned to his house
at midnight to find that someone had broken in earlier in the night and taken five things. The purloined articles
were: an Underwood Portable Noiseless typewriter, a Bagdad rug, a mahogany tea-table, a radio, and a chair. The total value
of these items is estimated at an amount between $150 and $200. The typewriter is the most valuable of the
lot, but we are inclined to think that Dr. Lingle mourns the loss of the radio more than anything else
because he cannot listen to Lowell Thomas anymore until it is replaced. The criminal showed remarkably poor judgment in choosing
the time for his theft. If he (or they) had waited a week or two he would have gotten a
new radio, as the owner was going to trade in the one he had for another. There seem to have
been at least two men who did the job, since it would have taken a veritable Samson to carry away
all the loot by himself. They got into the house by prying up a window on the side away from
Dr. Brown's and breaking the catch. Then they opened another window, out of which they could carry the stolen goods
more easily. All the articles were taken from the living-room except the typewriter, which was in Mrs. Lingle’s bedroom. There
is evidence that the thieves looked for money (who wouldn’t?), but they failed to find any. Dr. Lingle thinks that
they must have had a car to carry the stolen goods; however, it was probably a small one, as everything
seemed to be taken with an eye to its bulk. The stolen chair was not the best in the room,
but was most valuable in proportion to its size. The same applies to the table. When Dr. and Mrs. Lingle
returned about 12 o'clock both windows were wide open and the room was in disorder as if the thieves had
been interrupted at their task.

Amusing Skits Presented By French Circle

Interesting Program Featured By One-Act Play, Comic Dialogue, and Speech

Le Cercle Francais held its first meeting since examinations on Tuesday night, March 3. The club started off the new
period with an interesting program consisting of a play, a comedy dialogue, a speech, and French music and songs. A
short one-act French play entitled “Rosalie” was the feature of the evening's entertainment. The leading roles were played by Miss
Dorothy Johnson, Mrs. Grier Martin, and Woodrow Hassell. “Rosalie” is a modern comedy of a bourgeois French family’s efforts to
get into society. The story is centered around the trials and tribulations of an “uppity” maid, Rosalie. Val Cassels and
Jim Cothran then presented a comedy dialogue, “Dans une Rue de Provence,” as the next feature on the program. It
was a skit of two bourgeois Frenchmen meeting on the street and carrying on a conversation about everyday news and
gossip. Following this skit Frank Poe read an interesting paper entitled “Chamonix et Mont Blanc.” In concluding the meeting, several
French songs and orchestral numbers were rendered by the members who were so inclined. After the meeting the usual refreshments
were served to the members of the club. Le Cercle Francais has planned a trip to Winthrop College soon after
Spring holidays, where they will hold a joint meeting with the French club of that college. The Winthrop club will
make a return trip to Davidson shortly following and will hold a meeting with the local club.

Hold Services

Meetings Are Conducted At Nearby Churches

On Sunday, March 1, Lock Vass and Marion Bryant spoke at the Charlotte Y. M. C. A. to a group
of Hi-Y boys. Last Sunday, Johnny Mosely and “Swede” Johnson held Sunday School at the colored church of Davidson. Treadway
Purnell and Haywood Hill spoke at the Charlotte Y. M. C. A. A group composed of Roger Melton, Johnny Allen,
Charlie Ramseur, Paul Hudson, Professor Don Pfohl, and Johnny Allen went to Concord to hold a service at the Presbyterian
Church there. Melton talked and the quartette sang, accompanied by Mr. Pfohl at the piano. Bill Link and Charlie Mauze
conducted a service at the Prospect Church in Mooresville; James Satango had charge of the music. Wade Boggs filled the
pulpit of Reverend Mr. Weston at the Huntersville and Hopewell Baptist Churches. The “Come to College” Campaign, sponsored annually by
the Charlotte Y. M. C. A., began Monday of this week. The purpose of this campaign is to lay...

Cars For Rent

GULF GAS AND OIL

Clean

Physics Club Extends Bids To New Men

Bradley, Andrews, Covington, McLean, Crisp, Henry, Lafferty Chosen

GROUP FOUNDED HERE

Sigma Pi Sigma Now Widely Spread Through County.

Seven men were extended bids by Sigma Pi Sigma, honorary Physics society, at its meeting last Monday evening. Those extended
bids were H. W. Bradley of the senior class; J. A. C. Andrews, W. D. Covington and F. H. McLean
of the junior class; and M. B. Crisp, S. S. Henry and M. L. Lafferty, of the sophomore class. To
qualify for a bid, a senior must have an average of 90, with no grades below 85. Any man must
be in at least his fourth semester of Physics. A junior, to qualify for a bid, may have no grade
below 90, and a sophomore must have an average of 95. A man is elected to membership on the basis
of his interest in Physics, after he has qualified. In the Davidson (Alpha) chapter there are fourteen student members and
five faculty members. Professor H. E. Fulcher, of the Davidson faculty, stated that Sigma Pi Sigma was organized at Davidson
in 1921, on Dec. 11. At present there are thirty-two chapters from St. Lawrence in the north, to Centenary College
in Louisiana, and as far west as the University of Colorado and the University of Washington. The famous Compton brothers,
of whom K. T. Compton is the retiring president of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, Richtmyer, Swan,
Dr. Haas of Leyden, Miller, Gale, and Lemon are all members of Sigma Pi Sigma. This society is recognized by
the A. A. A. S. and holds semi-annual group meetings. In several universities it takes the place of Sigma Xi
as a graduate society. Sigma Xi is a graduate society. The progress of expansion in past years has been due
largely to the...Able leadership of Dr. Marsh White, the national secretary, who is at Penn State. There are two chapters
in North Carolina, the other being at Duke. In all, there are over 6,000 members in the United States.

Orchestra Is Offered Here On Broadcast
Little Symphony Offers Music By Strauss, St. Saëns, Chopin, Others

The Little Symphony Orchestra of the University of Michigan, after rendering a concert in Chambers Auditorium Friday night, March 6,
remained to play for the weekly broadcast at 10:00 P.M. The first number by the orchestra, after “O Davidson” had
been played by Prof. Pfohl at the organ, was an overture to Die Fledermaus by Strauss. The next selection, “Habanera”
by St. Saëns, featured Romine Hamilton as violin soloist. Other numbers by the Little Symphony were: “Valse” by Chopin, “Girl
With the Flaxen Hair” by Debussy, “Overture to Mignon” by Thomas, “Vision of the Guardian Angel” by Pierné, “Tango” by
Albéniz, and “Tales from Vienna Woods” by Strauss. Following the last selection of the orchestra, the program was concluded with
the tune “Davidson” coming from the organ.

Sigma Pi Sigma was organized by six students and three faculty members of Davidson. (Of the six charter members, one
is now in insurance, two in business, and three in medicine). Dr. J. M. Douglass conceived and fostered it, and
furnished the motive power. The purpose of Sigma Pi Sigma is “to create a more general interest in Physics, to
encourage research, and to provide an opportunity for students and faculty members to discuss developments on the subject.” The Davidson
chapter meets twice a month. Papers are given and discussions of research are held. This last summer, at the general
meeting, it was decided that Sigma Pi Sigma should be changed from an honorary fraternity to an honorary society. This
decision was made because it is not considered to be in the spirit of true science to have secrets. All
findings are made public, in the interest of the betterment of humanity. An example of this spirit is that shown
by Dr. LeRoy L. Hartman of Columbia, who has refused to “cash in” on his dental desensitizer, despite the fact
that he put twenty years of research work into it.

Freshman Names Cartoon “Davidson-Reader Supplies Winning Name”—with this routine head, The Charlotte Observer last Sunday morning announced to the world
that within this student body is contained an intellectual marvel. For he alone of all those who tried was able
to supply a name for The Observer's Nameless Cartoon; and it took him only a few hours to think it
up, too. This wizard’s name is Jim Moore, and he is the second member of the class of '39 to
bring this singular distinction to the Davidson campus. The other was Bruce Brown, Moore’s roommate (these things run in families!).
In case you didn’t see the cartoon, it was a tragedy in black and white depicting the result of a
deck swab's throwing a bucket of water over the side of a ship onto the commodore’s head. The result: the
commodore got wet. Moore's title, “The Vulgar Boatman,” won out over the stiffest sort of competition. One wit must have
rolled the staff in the aisles with “The Captain Gets Wet,” and “All That Goes Up Must Come Down” stood
high in the voting. But true genius will tell, and Moore brought home the bacon. An unofficial rumor has it
that he will use the five dollars which fall to his lot as the victor to buy stamps with which
to mail in more uproarious suggestions. Moore has neither denied nor confirmed this report, (Cause why? Cause he hasn't been
asked).

Interwoven ‘On THE GO’ 75c and $1 pair
On land or on water... you're sure to be on your feet. Treat them well... give them Interwoven Socks... for
easy, lasting comfort.
J.B. IVEY & CO.

CINEMATIC COMMENTS
Wednesday, March 11
Give Us This Night
It is three quarters sheer melody and the best picture on the week's bill. Jan Kiepura and Gladys Swarthout sing
ballads which are advanced light opera music for the cinema. The music is by Erich Wolfgang Korngold, whose operas “Violanta”
and “Dead City” have been given at the Metropolitan.

Thursday-Friday, March 12-13
The Silly Billies
More craziness with Bert Wheeler and Robert Woolsey. The title fits perfectly.

Saturday, March 14
King of the Damned
A melodrama centering about the cruel lot of Devil's Island prisoners. Conrad Veidt, Helen Vinson, Philip Merivale, and Benny Baker.

Sunday-Tuesday, March 16-17
Mr. Hobo
Being himself on the highway. Also starring Richard Arlen and Viola Keats.

ABSIT ES
Copyright 1936, The American Tobacco Company

A LIGHT SMOKE OF RICH, RIPE-BODIED TOBACCO
Over a period of years, advances have been made in the selection and treatment of cigarette tobaccos for Lucky Strike
Cigarettes. They include preliminary analyses of the tobacco selected; use of center leaves; the higher heat treatment of tobacco (“Toasting”);
consideration of acid-alkaline balance, with consequent definite improvement in flavor; and controlled uniformity in the finished product. All these combine
to produce a superior cigarette—a modern cigarette, a cigarette made of rich, ripe-bodied tobaccos—A Light Smoke.

Luckies are less acid
Recent chemical tests show that other popular brands have an excess of acidity over Lucky Strike of from 53% to
100%.

Excess of Acidity of Other Popular Brands Over Lucky Strike Cigarettes
BALANCE
LUCKY STRIKE
BRAND D

*RESULTS VERIFIED BY INDEPENDENT CHEMICAL LABORATORIES AND RESEARCH GROUPS

“IT'S TOASTED”
Your throat protection—against irritation—against cough
