THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 29, 1936

DR. WALTER LINGLE TALKS AT VESPERS ON “ENGLISH BIBLE”

College President Honors 400th Anniversary of Tyndale’s Translation

SERMON IN TWO PARTS

Dr. Lingle Gives History and Influence of Bible

“The history of the English Bible and its effect on the literature and morals of the English people” was the
topic of Dr. Walter L. Lingle’s sermon last Sunday night at vespers. Dr. Kenneth J. Foreman, of the Bible Department,
was in charge of the service, and Dr. C. M. Richards led in prayer. The college quartette rendered a number.
For the scripture, Dr. Lingle read part of II Timothy 2, taking for his text the latter part of II
Timothy 2:9. This verse is “The word of God is not bound.” His sermon was divided into two parts. The
first was the history of the English Bible, and the second was the influence of the Bible on morals and
literature.

The history of the Bible began with the two versions that Christ used, the Old Hebrew version and the Septuagint.
He traced the history through the work of Jerome who made the Latin Vulgate, Caedmon, Bede, Alfred the Great, Wycliffe,
Tyndale, and finally came to the work of Coverdale. He pointed out that this was the first complete version of
the Bible, but he said that in his opinion Coverdale did not deserve as much credit as did Tyndale, as
he was not killed for his beliefs. He then told of the Genevan edition and the King James version.

In speaking of the influence of the Bible on all English literature, Dr. Lingle pointed out that this Book was
a piece of literature in itself. It influenced the work of Shakespeare, Bacon, Milton, Ruskin, and Bunyan along with many
others. He said that Lincoln probably got his oratorical talents from the Bible as it was one of the few
books in his home. Dr. Lingle pointed out that the

Members Talk At Eu Meeting

Literary Society Hears Talks By White, Mawhinney, Wicker, Young

The meeting of the Eumenean Literary Society which was held on the Tuesday before examinations featured speeches and papers given
by members of the society. The meeting, which was held in the Social Center on Jan. 13, was opened by
a speech delivered by Locke White, of the freshman class. White spoke on “Strike-Breaking,” devoting most of his talk to
telling about the work of Pearl I. Bergoff. Bergoff has commercialized this activity to a great extent, and in doing
so has received both praise and opposition. The motto of the organization, as quoted by the speaker, is “Regardless of
who loses in a strike, the strike-breaker always wins.”

J. Mawhinney continued the meeting by reading an original paper, using as his topic “The Sales Tax.” Mawhinney enumerated the
advantages of this legislation, explaining that it was based on the principles of Adam Smith, the great economist. Following this,
L. L. Young read a paper on Pasadena. As described by the critic, Daymond Turner, it was a very “flowing
and flowery” description of that famous California city. The last item on the evening's program was a speech by Monroe
Wicker on “Movies in India.” Wicker explained that the American film has much influence throughout the world, citing examples to
prove the point. He said that India has many theaters in which American films are shown.

Examinations prevented the holding of a meeting the following week and the society did not assemble on January 27 so
as not to conflict with the Ransom lecture.

GREEKS

BETA THETA PI—A breakfast party will be held by the fraternity after the Saturday night dance at the Hotel Charlotte.

PI KAPPA ALPHA—Brother C. F. Hamrick has completed the required work for graduation here and thus will not be in
school the second semester. Brother Neal and Pledge Hardin spent the weekend in Danville. Brother Anders spent the weekend in
Columbia and Brother Spoon went to Greensboro. A banquet will be held at the Hotel Charlotte during the Mid-Winter dances.

KAPPA ALPHA—Four of the Brothers remained on the campus over the weekend. A banquet will be held at the Hotel
Charlotte on Saturday.

PI KAPPA PHI—Officers have been elected as follows: Archon, Verb Willis; Treasurer, Dunlap Covington; Secretary, Tom Cameron; Chaplain, Alex Bowles;
Historian, Mac Covington; Warden, Joe Hunter. The fraternity will hold a banquet this weekend at the S. & W. Cafeteria
in Charlotte.

SIGMA ALPHA EPSILON—H. Y. Mills went to his home in Greenville, S.C. last Thursday. Heeman Clark went to Fayetteville Friday.
Ed Armfield went to Asheboro Friday. On Thursday Henry Eve went to Augusta. The Brothers partook of the usual feed
Sunday night. A banquet is planned to be held at the Town Casino between the Saturday night dances of the
Mid-Winter set.

KAPPA SIGMA—Only seven of the brothers remained on the campus the past weekend. The chapter was recently visited by brothers
Ed Kuykendall, Neelmeier, and Fritz Myerly. There will be a banquet at the Hotel Charlotte for Mid-Winters. Election of Officers
will be held Thursday.

PHI GAMMA DELTA—Brothers Arthur Cooke, Owen Cooke, and Howell Overton spent the weekend at their homes in Greensboro. The regular
Sunday evening feed was held. The chapter will have a banquet between the Saturday afternoon and evening dances.

SCABBARD AND BLADE STARTS FLAG PROGRAM

Military Department Inaugurates New Program to Fly American Flag

CEREMONY SCHEDULED

To John B. McConnell, a former Davidson student, is on the list of those holding prominent positions on the Duke
campus, ison in nineteen hundred and thirty-two. He is now secretary of the Duke Bar Association and reporter for Phi
Delta Phi, which is the international legal fraternity. He is one of a group of eighty-two students in North Carolina.

Member of Every Class Perform Detail Duty

An American flag will be placed on the Davidson College flagpole sometime this week through the efforts of the R.O.T.C.
department and the Scabbard and Blade. The flag will be put up each day at breakfast time and taken down
each night at supper time. This will be done by the R.O.T.C. students. One member from each of the classes,
who takes military training, will be designated to put up and take down this flag. The freshmen and sophomores who
receive this assignment will be excused from drill for one day, but must take care of the flag for two
days. The seniors and juniors will be on duty throughout the week. Each will be in charge of the flag
for one week. Each receiving this assignment will be compelled to read one or two pages in the R.O.T.C. manual
which deals with the laws concerning the flag.

“Fire” Call Is No New Habit

Yelling and Throwing Water At “Dresses” Are Time-Honored Traditions

In inaugurating a new weekly series of articles on the traditions at our college, attention is called to a unique
Davidson custom, the origin of which is lost in the mists of antiquity. This custom is the “fire” call, which
is sounded whenever a girl appears on the campus. The call is given by the students, who then proceed to
throw water on the unfortunate visitor. This custom is said to have originated in the early days of the college,
when the appearance of a girl on the campus was a rare event.

John McConnell Is Included In List of Important Campus Men at Duke

John McConnell, a former Davidson student, is on the list of those holding prominent positions on the Duke campus. McConnell
was enrolled at Davidson in nineteen hundred and thirty-two. He is now secretary of the Duke Bar Association and reporter
for Phi Delta Phi, which is the international legal fraternity. He is one of a group of eighty-two students in
North Carolina whose sum total of elective offices equals one hundred and twenty in seventy of the one hundred and
forty-five student organizations on the Duke campus. This was recorded in the directory of student activities recently compiled. The State
of North Carolina leads the thirty-five states and one foreign country represented by the four hundred and twenty-two student leaders
which are listed in the directory.

New Officers In Phi Society

Philanthropics Re-Elect Hornbeck as President

The Philanthropic Literary Society held its first meeting of the new term last night, January 28, at its hall on
the campus. The principal part of the program was the installation of the officers for this term, with the inaugural
address by George Hornbeck, who was re-elected president of the society. The other officers include: T. D. Mathis, vice president;
Henry Barkley, re-elected secretary; C. G. Smith, first critic; and H. M. Purvis, second critic. Dick Lindsey was elected treasurer.

YOWL TO APPEAR SOON WITH SUBTLER HUMOR

F. M. Cochran Lands Safely After Mishap

Cochran Makes Forced Landing at Night After Plane Runs Out of Gas

THE YOWL, the college's humor magazine, still exists, according to Tom Downie, the editor, and the next issue will make
its appearance sometime in March. The magazine will be published under the direct supervision of the English Department, and it
will probably contain a great deal more literary material than it has in the past. The editorial staff plans to
dedicate this next number as its Spring Number, but no definite plans have yet been made concerning the features. It
is very probable that the same contributors will hold forth, but their humor will appear in a subtler form.

Miller Cochran, a Davidson graduate, had a close call when he was forced down while flying his plane near Cincinnati.
Cochran had to make a forced landing while flying to visit a friend in Cincinnati. He landed at Mainsville, Ohio,
and was snowbound for several days. His gasoline gave out and it was so dark that he was hardly able
to see. Making a safe landing, he was lucky indeed to come out alive with his plane intact. After he
had landed, snow began falling and it soon became impossible to take off. After two days, Cochran was able to
withdraw the plane.Plane from the snow bank, with the assistance of a crew of men. He then took off and
flew on in to Ciena Miller, son of Major Cochran, who is now stationed at Davidson, is of the Seventeenth
Pursuit Squadron of the United States Army which is now at Selfridge Field near Detroit. While he was at Davidson,
Cochran was captain of the track team. He broke several records and was especially efficient at throwing the discus. He
was also a member of the O.D.N. leadership fraternity.

AROUND WASHINGTON (Continued from Page 2)

The light way it was finished. Some labor does take them under its wing for tutelage it will save time
by taking them under its left wing where John Lewis abides. They wouldn't be happy under its right wing along
with A.F. of L. President for a single minute. They're all for industrial unionism and not Green's craft unions. No,
they would not be happy with President Green.

On Thursday, January 23, Mr. Cook of the Circulation Library of the University of North Carolina, visited the Davidson College
Library in search for material about Woodrow Wilson. An investigation, sponsored by Dean Lewis Wilson of the Chicago Graduate Library
School and other librarians, is being made to discover all original documents and research material which are related to the
World War President and which are found in southern libraries. Although the Davidson College library is a well-rounded one for
undergraduate study only, Mr. Cook found material here about the President. What was found in the local library will be
placed with other material to form the "Wilsontana," which, when completed, will be a collection of all material written by
or about Woodrow Wilson.

The program was completed by the presentation of two contemporary editorials by Vick Lindsey and the origin of which is
lost in the dim reaches of time. To witness this custom being practiced one need only to be present. The
most advanced countries were the ones where the Bible was generally believed, and where religious people had colonized. The service
was closed by the benediction, pronounced by Dr. Lingle.

Wednesday & Thursday, Jan. 29-30
Anything Goes
Here is another Bing Crosby picture. This time he is co-starred with Ethel Merman as a singing partner and Charlie
Ruggles as the clown of the show. Ruggles is a mild-mannered gangster that calls himself Public Enemy No. 13. He
is the life of the show. Bing and Ethel Merman go into their songs singing "You're The Tops" with a
new lyric, "Anything Goes," "I Get A Kick Out of You," and "Shanghai de Ho." Of course, there are others.
One glamorous scene contained 6,000 square feet of mirrors and glass that complicated the shooting of this scene.

Friday, Jan. 31
Professional Soldier
Freddie Bartholomew, the child star of David Copperfield from England, and Victor McLaglen, star of "The Informer," combine their talents
to bring this story to the silver screen. Freddie plays the part of a child king whom revolutionists wish to
kidnap. McLaglen, ex-marine machine gunner, is brought in to perform the kidnapping. He is as hard as nails but softens
when he finds it is a child instead of a grown man. This moving picture not only has the gangster
element but is that light drama that is enjoyed by everyone.

Mid-Year Fray Is Completed
Clouds of Despair Settle As Reports Are Posted
The war is over, the battle din and confusion have died down and only a few faint echoes pervade the
silence. EXAMS ARE OVER! For the last ten days the army of Davidson Students has been battling valiantly in that
mid-year fray, and now that it is over, only the casualties remain. Here is Student A. This poor unsuspecting fella
forgot all about drilling in his happy-go-lucky manner, and "got shot" on the first volley. There he lies with three
wounds, each resembling an F. And there’s Student B. He dies groaning at the edge of the field bemoaning the
shots he might have received if he hadn't been prepared. If he does "get shot" though, you can bet that
one particular instructor will get a piece of his mind, if any. Student C is in the middle of the
confusion chortling merrily at the whole thing, despite the loss of a few spare members. He passed anyhow, and that’s
a lot!

Now let us glance at the opposing side. There they sit serenely, benevolently, but cruelly drilling myriads of the "poor
critters." Some of them riddle the opposing ranks with fiendish glee, while others take an occasional "pot shot." It’s bloody,
gory work, nonetheless! Anyhow, it's over and there’s a clean slate all ready to dirty up before the next fray
of exams.

New Year, Special Midwinters Haircuts
How waste baskets and pour the voting on new men who had passed the judiciary committee. Snow Covers Bleak Campus
As the President enveloped us in a dress, its contents in search of fascinating facts last Sunday night, Jack Frost
once more enveloped the campus in the most fascinating and lovely of nature's decorations. Yes, as the student body catapulted
into the biting air they found the perfect blanket, which hid the prim bleakness of naked trees and blackened lawn.
Belying the warmth of two weeks ago, King Winter rode to the attack on the crest of the most recent
cold wave, to prove that his bolt was far from shot.

Thoughts of John (or Bill or Junior), are quickly replaced with thoughts of home and safety; and into the car
scurries the skirt. Another fortunate female has witnessed the fulfillment of an ancient rite. Davidson has lived up to her
tradition, and sinks again into the calm of a rural Sunday afternoon.

For Rent
GULF GAS AND OIL
TWO EXPERIENCED BARBERS
M. P. Henderson

Davidson Theatre
WEDNESDAY & THURSDAY, JAN. 29-30
"ANYTHING GOES"
With Bing Crosby, Ethel Merman and Charlie Ruggles

FRIDAY, JAN. 31
"PROFESSIONAL SOLDIER"
With Freddie Bartholomew and Victor McLaglen

SATURDAY, FEB. 1
"CHAN’S SECRET"
With Warner Oland, Rosina Lawrence and Charles Quigley

MONDAY & TUESDAY, FEB. 2-3
"EXCLUSIVE STORY"
With Franchot Tone and Madge Evans

NO MATTER WHAT TYPE OF UNDERWEAR YOU PREFER—
YOU’LL FIND IT MADE BY
Quality and Service Is Built Into Every
On Sale at All Good Stores at Popular Prices
P. H. HANES KNITTING CO., Winston-Salem, N. C.
