The Davidsonian | Founded By the Class of 1915
1935 Member 1936 Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate year.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879.

ARTICLES FOR PUBLICATION must be in the hands of Managing Editors by 4:00 o'clock p.m. Monday. Letters to the Editor
are welcome, but all communications intended for publication must be signed.

LAMONT BROWN
R. P. MORROW, Jr. Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
Jim Morton Managing Editor
Howey Overton Managing Editor
Harold Sugg Managing Editor
Daymond Turner Managing Editor
John Winn Managing Editor
Harry Kuykendall Sports Editor
Martin Barnett Associate Editor
Harvey Glass Associate Editor
Paul Harvan Associate Editor
Tom Wacker Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
Charles Mayze Circulation Manager
Bob Vance Circulation Manager
Hoke Robinson Advertising Manager
Bill Hill Collection Manager
Bill Dyer Assistant Business Manager

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 11, 1936

Be not hasty in thy spirit to be angry: for anger resteth in the bosom of fools. Eccles. 7:9.

Paragraphics...
Congratulations to Gene Vogler, who is the newly elected cheerleader. This is a very important position at Davidson and a
very worthy man has been chosen to succeed Joe Dees, who did an excellent job himself.

Chewing the tag is as mentally fatal to some college students as it was to the ancient pig, which, historical
legends tell us, died while gnawing on the rags from the body of a black-death victim.

Congratulations to “Teeny” Lafferty. He was elected yesterday to the office of first vice-president of the student body for the
ensuing school year. Another very wise choice by the students.

Quiet Please...
Several months ago the student body voted an amendment to the constitution, which provided for the elimination of consistently noisy
students. Since then a considerable amount of disturbance has been done away with. However, complaints can still be heard from
certain quarters that boisterous students make it almost impossible to study in these localities. Whether the continued noisiness is due
to the failure of some students to remember their access to the student council as a means of disciplining these
persistent pests, or whether it is because the students feel that reporting the malicious indulgers would be a futile step,
is not possible to say just now. It may be accorded to an entirely different reason, but whatever the fundamental
cause may be, the student body may be amply assured that the council will take measures to preserve quiet conditions
for every student who wishes to study.

Many students criticize the anti-noise amendment as a very childish and unbecoming bit of legislation. In a sense, it is
that very thing. It was designed as a movement to either quiet or remove entirely certain childish and unbecoming disturbers.
So, if you like, change the name of the regulation to anti-childishness and anti-unbecomingness. Few colleges in America would have
allowed an undesirable condition like this to become ingrained into the life as it was at Davidson. But, nevertheless, it
will still be possible to eliminate it if every man strives to cooperate with the student government in enforcing the
amendment.

Take Exercise...
Only last week a prominent Wildcat supporter was heard to say “some of Davidson's best athletes never come out.” Being
familiar with many of the boys on this campus, that individual practically “hit the nail on the head.” Tales are
often told now, and with some degree of truthfulness, of how certain boys went out for football, track, and other
sports to fulfill some wager made in one of our “bull sessions.” However, there are many on our campus now
who don't even pay athletics that much attention. Many of Davidson's greatest stars on the athletic field had never tried
their abilities until they came here. Yet they made All-State selections. There are a great many stars on the campus
who do not realize what they can do. They need to find themselves. Intramurals are a big help to these
men. There is still another group here who have made good in prep or high school sports and know they
have the goods, yet do not care to help themselves or Davidson along this line. Perhaps they are taking difficult
courses and have no time. The usual case of this kind, however, results in better grades and better health when
the individual adopts a more balanced schedule. If you're not out for track, golf, or tennis, give it a try.
Rest assured that you will feel much better if you engage in some form of daily exercise.
—H.L.K.

Italian Universities...
By SENON E. HUMPHREYS (for Associated Collegiate Press)

Italy, Mother of Universities, bids her own universities awaken and reassure their world leadership. In the days of the Renaissance,
the universities of Italy led the world to the new learning that overcame the darkness of the Middle Ages. The
universities of Bologna, Padua, Florence, and Rome had a large part in the movement that brought the new light.

Since those glorious days, however, the universities of Italy have been often content to rest upon their laurels, while the
rest of the world takes intellectual leadership. Even when Italy was unified, her universities developed a tendency to remain provincial.
Their professional faculties were crowded, their scholarly halls almost deserted. Science was taught altogether by the lecture method. Medicine was
learned in the clinics; laboratories were almost as rare as in Galileo’s day. Libraries of a hundred thousand volumes were
considered large, and professors had to earn their living outside their teaching.

Such conditions could not please the Fascist government. If youth was to lead the new Italy it must be thoroughly
and carefully trained. Giovanni Gentile, who had long been a professor, was the first minister of education under Mussolini, and
his successors, Fedele and Ercole, were also schoolmen. Under their leadership and the Duce’s own, a revolution began to take
place. Science was the first need, and laboratories were built, until now there are none finer than those in the
university city at Rome. Italy's great scientists, like Marconi, were called to help with the instruction, and the salaries of
the professors were heavily increased, so that they might give their full time to the study of their problems. The
libraries were improved, first those in the cities, like the new one at Florence which houses a million volumes, then
those in the universities themselves. The library of the Catholic University, the Sacre Cuore in Milan, is a rich store
of material arranged for easy accessibility. The Alessandrina library is built to hold more volumes than the famous Vatican collection
itself. The heavy migration of foreign students, even Americans, has been increasingly marked in the past few years and is
evidence of the progress that is being made. Evidence of the government's clear thinking in leading the movement is Mussolini’s
specifications for the great university city at Rome, as he gave them to the architect, Piacentini, in 1932: “Build at
Rome, but for Italy, and not only for this troubled period of architecture but for centuries to come; construct for
what is already becoming the greatest center of study in the Mediterranean and which must not now stop its progress;
give, finally, to the architecture a modern and noble text of scholastic construction, simple, sober, practical and also relatively economical.
Spend nothing, however, for useless ornament, but build rooms full of air and light, laboratories well furnished, offices adapted to
study and research, orderly and well-furnished libraries; and all commodious and neat, following the laws of hygiene and the necessities
of modern science, in an atmosphere adapted to research, to study and to serene meditation.”

DAVIDSON OFF THE merely to escape putting up bleachers or to

HAROLD SUGG

DEAR BOYS...
Just before leaving for Tennessee, investigating the trouble when the wind blows eastward, and Kentucky, the home of beautiful horses,
etc. and taking in the local color of West by gad Virginia and winding up in the Old Dominion, I
thought I’d sit me down, unpack my thoughts and tell you boys who to run the place while I am
gone and the Pan-Hellenic Council how not to ruin the place. During this peregrination, I shall be indulging in what
sardonic John Walker terms “luxurious quibbling,” exempla gratia: attempting to persuade folks in Tennessee and West Virginia that the Supreme
Court is the Hunker Cabal of the Nation and folks in Kentucky and Virginia that it is the Bulwark of
Civilization. Sounds hypocritical but I am hoping it will end up in a Civil War between these states. Then that
will relieve the unemployment situation in the North, for all the Yankees will regain their jobs as carpetbaggers. Before I
cease this fanciful mental Iliad, let me announce to the public that John Walker has been appointed economic advisor to
Liberia, or prime minister to Ethiopia I forget which.

Oh How I Love the Pan-Hellenic Council
It has reached my ears that the venerable President of the Pan-Hellenic Council (may Allah bless him, he’s my fraternity
brother) and his cohorts intimated, in fact said outright among other and worser things (please, professor, I meant to say
worser) that my protests were like a chicken pecking at Gibraltar. Well, if they meant by Gibraltar that they “got
rocks,” they're right and if they mean by me being a chicken that they have the “chicken feed” they're also
right. Incidentally, the great feature of Junior Speaking, so I'm told, is that calumnist won't be there and that everybody
can frolic, free and unfeared (no, I'm not in Tennessee, yet, all right). Well, to tell the truth, I meant
to call off my debating trip when I heard it would conflict with Junior Speaking. But I found that Tommy
Tucker was an SAE so I decided I'd go on west. And then I found that he was a Phi
Beta Kappa, which would put him in the class with Ghandi Walker, so I am leaving a day earlier.

Lapsus Mensae (7)
Last week I compiled a list of those personages whose principal claim to fame was a prominent proboscis. Well, the
paper was still warm off the press when a general rumble of discontent rose from East which soon swelled into
a thunder of protest that they, East Dormitory, claimed the longest and most uncertain nose alive. Calumnist rushed down to
investigate and saw the amazement of his life. Last week I said that Schnozz Hill could smoke a cigarette under
the showers. Well this monstrosity could smoke a Corona cigar under the sprinklers and wash his back at the same
time. They call him Bull Durham. Unicorn Durham would be a more appropriate monicker.

Pestiferous Personages 13 & 14
Among the queer tricks that nature plays in the Dormitory Incubator is the Insomno-Maniac. He is the guy who has
a mania for awaking people to see if you have a class, have eaten dinner, or want an apple. He
can't stand to see a man sleep and therefore you can’t sleep late unless you bar the door. And even
then he will beat the door.down. No. Fourteen PP is the Pass-it-thank-You guy. You pass him the bread, he takes
some, thanks you and leaves you holding the plate. Every hall has a PP but only first floor Georgia has
a Harpo Harpy Hairpo Hairlan Har-an. Davidson College was built especially for third floor Georgia. If you want to study,
go to the library. If you want to sleep, go to the infirmary.

Sojourns in Gehenna

The dark room door will have to be reinforced to keep out the High School girls who are clamoring for
a picture of that Blonde Curly Haired Greek idol named Motley. We have heard of boys named after flowers but
Henry T. Mills is the first we know of to be called Dahlia. Rob Roy Purdy has composed a song:
“I Can, Canoe?” Leonard Fort learning to play second fiddle to his sweetheart fiddler in Statesville. Casanova Bigham at the
Broadway. Bet that girl thought the balcony seats were uncomfortable. Billy Crooks can’t follow up at Duke. Powerhouse: Herbie Hoover
snakes on Hervey Ross in Charlotte. John A. C. Andrews after a little Moore Sat. Bob Tissue and a week
in Charlotte. Jimmy Salango with Moonglow in his eyes and that torch singer for Bob Pond’s orchestra. Hornbeck and Poplar
Apartment. She is just a Banker’s daughter, and does discount? There are two kinds of courses: crippy and crappy. The
next column will be written from Danville, Kentucky. Wilbur Edwards, whose unfortunate lot it is to accompany the columnist, is
getting impatient so Schnozz Hill’s nose, Schnozz Hill’s nose. So long!

Washington, D. C.—Besides being the capital of the nation, Washington is a city of some 600,000 residents, with many of
the same municipal problems found in Baltimore, Philadelphia, New York, and Chicago. But whereas these cities have elective bodies of
their own to manage their affairs, Washington is governed by Congress, a group of men much more concerned with the
business of the nation as a whole than they are with the troubles of the capital. The result is that
Washington, economically well off, has more deaths occurring yearly of preventable diseases, more crime, more traffic accidents, and more of
a traffic problem than any city of the same size in the country, with the exception of one or two
cities whose industrial population is largely unemployed, causing an abnormal increase in disease deaths and crime. In addition, it has
an unbelievably poor transit system, a tremendous housing shortage and fabulously high rents, and its gas and electric rates yield
unduly high returns to the utilities. These evils exist because the government rules Washington through a District Committee of Congress.
Washington gets a good government one year and bad government another year, or no government at all, depending on the
amount of interest taken in the District from time to time by various members of the District Committee, or depending
on the individual attitude of members of that committee. The citizens can howl from January to January for a decent
appropriation to fight tuberculosis and a single man on the committee can defeat their efforts by vigorous action. Rep. Blanton
of Texas, in his dogfights with the local medical authorities who are asking for such an appropriation, is an example
of an autocrat taking advantage of the politicians’ dream come true—a place you can run without fear of being voted
out. For no Washingtonian can vote, locally or nationally. He can only petition. What this city needs is a first-class
muckraker, a Lincoln Steffens, to once again go back of the city’s evils to the wherefore. Here there is not
the tie-up between politics and crime, indirectly made possible by business. Here we have government by representatives of other parts
of the country—representatives absent from the city six months in the year. Does the city need a new courthouse, or
a new jail? Does it need a new hospital? Should the pay of city employees be raised? Congress will decide
those matters when it gets back to town, and when after getting back to town if it finds the time
to look into them. Steffens, when he looked into the Washington setup years ago showed that although run by Congressmen,
persons supposedly superior to city bosses, Washington had as bad government as one could find in New York under Croker
of Tammany Hall. Relatively speaking, keeping in mind that city governments have improved since those flamboyant days, Washington is in
the same position as it was, maybe a good bit lower down, on the municipal ratings. And so, because Washington
has no vote, it is tossed around merrily from year to year by Congress. Whoever in Congress wants to pay
attention and exert effort in regard to the city can do it great good or immeasurable harm. All sorts of
things have been and are suggested by Congressmen for the District. A dry Congressman proposes the District be made dry,
by recalling Prohibition for the sole benefit of Washington. Blanton sticks in a rider to the District Appropriations bill to
the effect that District teachers are not to teach or advocate Communism. If some bigot appears in the House some
day and makes an impassioned demand that the sidewalks be taken up at nine o’clock every night the only thing
that will prevent him from putting such a bill through will be not the fondness of Congressmen for the citizenry,
but the fact that Congressmen are either often out after that hour, or have their cars parked on the wrong
side of some one-way street, alongside a fire hydrant.

Light Fantastic

Davidson is not the only school where students yearn to dance on campus. Perusal of our exchanges would indicate that
the inmates of Agnes Scott, Wake Forest, and Winthrop crave the same privilege. At High Point the matter has gone
a step farther. In a recent editorial the Hi-Po, commenting on trustees’ denial of student petition, characterizes the present social
program as “childish and provincial,” intimates students might take matters into their own hands, dance without permission. Within the past
two years, Guilford, Catawba, and Lenoir-Rhyne have come to recognize dancing as a wholesome social recreation.

Memory...

Darn he! Me hate he! Me wish he were died! He told I he-loved I, But darn he, he lied!
—Illini.

Wages of Virtue...

A recent survey made by the life insurance companies would indicate that the ministry offers the longest life of any
of the professions. Physicians, contrary to the popular belief, live a little longer than the average man, while agricultural workers
have a lower death rate than men in any other business. —The Mercer Cluster.

Leap Year Lament...

The average length of a modern romance is a month. As long as it takes the hair on our neck
to grow from our ears to our shirt collar. —Maroon.

Ex-Calumnist...

Here lies the body Of poor Uncle Roddy Who died in the interest of scandal; The paper changed hands And
to meet in demands No more college law will he handle. —Red and Black.

The Law...

The Supreme Court of Oklahoma handed down a decision last week exempting fraternities from paying state taxes. The decision was
based on a court ruling that fraternities are “educational institutions.”

JUNIOR CLASS (Continued from Page 1)

Jack Branch; Sigma Phi Epsilon, Miss Virginia Shaver, of Salisbury, with Jim Morton. Several members of the faculty with their
wives have been invited to act as chaperones at all of the dances. The officers for this year's Junior Class
are Russell Patterson, president; Jim Morton, vice-president; and Hal Overton, secretary and treasurer. Tommy Tucker made his first appearance here
when he played for the sophomore dances in 1934. Tickets may be secured from any member of the Junior Dance
Committee. Set tickets will go off sale Friday afternoon, March 13.

THIS COLLEGIATE WORLD

“What,” asks Columnist Bill Kennedy of the University of Minnesota Daily, “is so wonderful about Walter Johnson throwing a dollar
across the Rappahannock—with the dollar inflated the way it is!”

The newest organization among college men is the VFW, a military organization. It means: Veterans of Future Wars, and the
organizers maintain they ought to have their bonus through Congress by July at least. It all started with students at
the Virginia Military Institute and already has a chapter in Alaska, so they say.

“The ‘new social order’ is a myth,” Dr. James S. Thomas, Clarkson College president, warns against the intelligentsia.

Compare the NEW

From Davidsonians of Years Gone By

—1931—

E. D. Kuykendall is elected cheerleader for the coming year to succeed George McClenaghan. He defeated E. L. Gorham... Phi
Beta Kappa elects five seniors to membership. The men taken in were P. R. Alderman, J. R. Caldwell, A. W.
Cowan, J. W. McCutchan, and Dean Rusk... The Sophomore house party will be held this weekend. A group of Queens
girls will give a performance, Calligan and Enochs will sing, and Clark and Sugg will present a comedy skit... Three
Davidson men, Fleagle, George, and Kuykendall, place in the non-conference competition at the indoor games at Carolina. Junior Speaking will
be held on the twenty-seventh and twenty-eighth of this month. The committee in charge includes N. G. Spier, J. C.
McConnell, H. C. McFadyen, Frank Buckner, Jack McKinnon, and W. S. Lee... Dean S. V. Sanford of the University of
Georgia will speak here on Athletic Night.

—1926—

W. R. Story is elected cheerleader over C. W. Williams... Faculty excuses members of The Davidsonian editorial staff from morning
prayers... Parker, Ratchford, and Powell will represent Davidson in the Pittsburgh debate... Work is going forward on a theater that
will bring movies to Davidson... H. M. Austin, varsity tennis manager, announces a heavy tennis schedule for this year... Dick
Grey is elected student body secretary... F. L. Jackson will speak at Vespers Sunday... Annapolis Plebes will wrestle the Wildcats...
Davidson Battalion is recommended for a Distinguished Rating... The annual spring golf tournament enters the second round... A questionnaire is
being answered by the students to determine the “Ideal Girl.”

—1921—

Davidson comes third in the Big Five basketball race... A small blaze in the Phi Hall caused much excitement, but
it was put out before much damage could be done... Dr. W. W. Moore of Richmond will deliver the fourth
series of Ott’s lectures this week... Bill Mitey will captain the 1921 nine.

—1916—

Dr. J. D. Hammond of the University of North Carolina lectures to the recently organized International Relations Club on principles
of War and Peace... Frosh-Soph Declamation preliminaries are held... J. P. Laird is elected basketball manager for next year... Dr.
W. M. Thompson of the University of Virginia, will give an illustrated lecture on the Panama Canal next week.

Printers... Publishers... Bookbinders... Commercial and Social Printing and Publishing Book and Catalog Publishing a Specialty REPRESENTATIVES: LAMONT BROWN——R. P. MORROW
STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY Charlotte, N. C. 117 Garland Court
