ATHLETIC ASSOCIATION ASKED TO SELL GIRLS’ TICKETS TO STUDENTS

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA

The Davidsonian

LIBERTAS

JACK WARDLAW AND HIS ORCHESTRA PLAY FOR “D” CLUB DANCE

VOL. XXIV DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. NOVEMBER 25, 1936 NO. 10

Campus Awaits ‘D’ Club’s First Thanksgiving Dance

Symbolic Decorations in Red and Black Will Adorn Hotel Ballroom

RHYTHM BY WARDLAW

Wake Forest Team Will Attend Dance as Guests

Only waiting for the Time to say when, the “D” Club is ready to entertain one and all at its first annual Thanksgiving Day dance in the ballroom of Hotel Charlotte tomorrow night. During the past week the dance committee of the “D” Club, Mokey Faison, chairman, Wade Barrow and Buddy Branton, has completed arrangements for the ballroom. There are to be huge red cardboard cutouts placed around the columns adorning the room. High above the heads of the dancers at the far end of the room a giant illuminated D will shine while over the walls on either side of the room, eleven decorations in red and black will form geometric designs in crepe paper with the two center chandeliers.

DR. HARDING HOPES TO RESUME DUTIES SOON

Dr. Harding, who has been in the hospital in Charlotte for the past two weeks as a result of a serious operation, will soon be back on the Davidson campus to resume his professorial activities. Professor J. C. Bailey of the Greek Department announced this morning that Dr. Harding was expected to be back in Davidson by Wednesday or Thursday of this week, if no further complications set in. However, he would be confined to his bed at home for several days after that. He also announced that Dr. Harding was making plans to hold his classes at home until he was fully able to resume his regular duties at the college. Everyone is greatly pleased by Dr. Harding's quick recovery and will be glad to have him back.

“A MIDSUMMER NIGHT’S DREAM”

Pictured above is a scene from the play “A Midsummer Night's Dream” by Shakespeare, recently presented to the Davidson student body by the Red and Black Masquers. Those appearing in the above picture, from left to right, are: Jim Wilson as “Thisbe,” Sam Ryburn as “Wall,” Bill Nicholson as “Lion,” Tyler Port as “Director,” Elmer Hulen as “Moon” and Chubby King as “Pyramus.”

PRODUCTIONS OF RED AND BLACK MASQUERS

N. C. Ministerial Students Convene With Local Band

Dr. Walter L. Lingle Speaks At Catawba

The members of the student body of Catawba College were privileged in hearing Dr. W. L. Lingle speak at their Vesper service Sunday night November 22. These services are sponsored by the Catawba Y. M. C. A. and Y. W. C. A. and correspond to the Davidson College vesper services. Dr. Lingle used as his theme: “Anticipated Thanksgiving,” and illustrated the various things in life that people should be thankful for. Dr. Lingle said that although some people feel their position in life is insignificant, their work is important and they should have a feeling of thankfulness.

SOPHOMORE WEEKEND

Speakers Address Group on Phases of Theme “Living For Jesus”

NEW OFFICERS ELECTED

Next Meeting Will Be At Guilford College

“Living for Jesus” was the theme of the convention of the North Carolina Student Ministerial Association held here. Seventy students were present, representing different colleges. At the banquet and closing address by Dr. Walter L. Lingle, the four colleges represented were High Point, Guilford, Campbell, and Davidson.

Officers Installed

At the banquet, the following newly-elected officers were installed: Howard Yow, of Guilford, president; Watson Street, of Davidson, vice-president; Bond, of High Point, Recording Secretary; Ritchie, of Guilford, Corresponding Secretary; and Harvey Brown of Campbell, treasurer.

Dr. Kennett Foreman opened the convention with a talk on “Living for Jesus: What Does It Mean?” In the afternoon the Reverend conducted a discussion on the topic.

Scabbard and Blade Holds Twentieth Biennial Convention in Raleigh

H. R. McClelland Represents Local Chapter

The 20th biennial convention of Scabbard and Blade, national honorary military fraternity, was held in Raleigh, N. C., November 19-21. Seventy-eight chapters throughout the United States were represented. H. R. McClelland, Captain of Company of the R. O. T. C. Battalion, is the local chapter's representative.

Current Educational Trends To Be Studied in Panel Discussions

Hear Noted Educators

Problems of Fraternities to Be Discussed

The National Interfraternity Council meeting, which is to be held at the Ambassador Hotel on Friday and Saturday of this week, will include a program of panel discussions on current educational trends. Noted educators from various universities will deliver addresses.

Sophomores Present Only Set of Dances This Fall

Complete With Tea Dance

Vocals By Kay Reever

Music By Leftwich; Armory Setting

The Sophomore class of Davidson College will present the only set of dances to be given this fall. The dances will be held at the Armory in Statesville on Friday and Saturday, December 4 and 5. Fitz Dade and his band will furnish the music. The dance is informal and the price of admission is $1.00 per couple.

D CLUB GIVES DINNER

The D Club, feeling that it should make itself a more active organization, has proposed to inaugurate this Thanksgiving Dance as an annual custom. The honor guests of the evening will be the football teams of Wake Forest and Davidson. Win or lose, both teams will be there to cap another great football season with a fitting climax.ligne. wan lata lsorcen nape about us and Thisbe. Mca Hoe AAT ay iyi We tee) ttee in charge of the i riewpo wha ne DUCheses SPEAK TO PHI BETAS feaeniit, r ae ip OO mises trom h. The climax in the first of the two scenes the fraternity councils at their respective program was the playe were given their parts. They NOKe Me Han, Ray fr (JAN) 3 =5C ooIss ar dqdoing aN CW aeas oun J d UNS a ve I Ny Sat night banquet at which started a sketchy rehearsal with Director Quince. Tom Abrey, shing season will be discussed. A. Taylor, one of the founders of Swords and Blade, with Director Quince. Harrison Vanderbilt English Professor and also the widely known problem of hazing will be interviewed. Lectures at Chapel Exercises. Also, the toastmaster, Brig. Gen. McCloskey delivered the principal address. Edwin Mims, head of the English Department of Vanderbilt University, will speak to the local chapter of Phi Beta Kappa at its banquet, December 11, and to the student body during an extended chapel period on December 12. The Faculty Committee on Public Lectures, with Dr. Edwin F. Shewmake as chairman, is sponsoring the lecture.

Dr. Mims is well known in literary circles as an educator, lecturer, editor, and writer. From 1894 to 1909 he was a professor at Trinity College, now Duke University, and from 1909 to 1912 he served in the same capacity at the University of North Carolina. He left Carolina in 1912 to assume his present position as head of the English Department at Vanderbilt University. He has spoken at places all over the nation; from 1919 to 1935 he lectured each summer at Chautauqua, N.Y., and last summer talked at a number of British universities, among which were Oxford and Cambridge.

(Continued on Page 2)

(Continued on Page 5)

Glee Club and Orchestra Will Combine For Concert

Because of the action of the Athletic Council in stopping the football games at a reduced rate, the privilege has been abused. A petition has been presented to the Council by the Student Body. The Glee Club and Silon Orchestra will join in a combined musical program next night, December 4. The program will start at 8:00 PM. Captain Pritchett is to man the Davidson Department, under the direction of Mr. McDonald. The Glee Club, under the direction of Mr. Wilde, will sing a spiritual. The concert will be held in Kenan Hall.

State tryouts for the Rhodes scholarship applicants will be held on December 17 through 19. Davidson will be represented in four different states by eight seniors, who have appeared before the Rhodes Scholarship committee here. Out of each state’s applicants, two will be selected to appear before a District Committee. The District Committee will select men from this group to be Rhodes Scholars. There is a total of 32 scholars selected in the United States every year.

The eight applicants, who will be excused from classes to be interviewed by their respective state committees are: W. S. Sam, E. B. Horine, W. H. Boggs, A. Brown, and E. M. Scott in North Carolina; B. B. Stewart in Alabama; J. D. Allen in Kentucky; and Patterson in Tennessee.

Davidson has been well represented in the past, having seven Rhodes Scholars thus far. Carlton Chapman, president of the class of '36, was one of the winners last year.

COLORED BOYS UNLUCKY

Friday night, November 13, three colored boys, Jim Frazer, Craig Ease, and Hurdle Lintz, broke into and robbed the Uneeda Lunch, a hot-dog stand on Main Street. The boys, all of whom were caddies at the Davidson golf course, broke into the store about midnight. Among the things which were stolen were several packages of cigarettes, a large supply of candy, and about three dollars in cash.

Rev. Walker to Speak

Rev. Walker, finishing in the class of 1907, is a graduate of Davidson College with honors. For many years Dr. Walker has been pastor of his present church. He is dearly loved by his congregation.