Page Six THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 2, 1936

SENIORS FLARE FORTH IN GAY NEW BLAZERS: MANY ARE PURCHASED

Present Year Considered Most Successful in Regard To Selection

COMMITTEE DUE CREDIT

Are Single Breasted With Red “D” on Pocket

Senior blazers made their week on Davidson campus. About fifty or sixty members of the class purchased them. This year
is considered the most successful in the history of the blazers. The committee, consisting of Billy Hige, McClain, Dixon, and
Wade Barrow, are shown on the ground at the left and right ends, respectively. Elmore Holt has the picture. Jerry
Harris is in the air above Barrow. In the center of the photo is Gene Vogler. The newly built East
Stadium is in the background.

And then Nathan gave David God’s forgiveness. The prophet did not realize the full import of his own words, but
a Christian today understands that forgiveness was both immediate and complete; some analogies of the forgiveness of the Prodigal Son
by his father. As punishment, the child of David and Bathsheba died. But, according to Dr. Walker, that the outside
world might see just punishment for sin. It was the speaker's idea that David had already made complete peace with
God, that he had been lifted from Hell.

Teams Close Season

The Davidson school enjoyed a pleasant time over Thanksgiving. The chapter's regular feed was held Sunday night. Johnny Allen traveled
home to Greensboro. Alumni visitors during the week-end included: Misses Virginia, Elsa, and Liberty Casali, Welch, W. Va.; Betty Baker,
Charlotte; and Mr. and Mrs. Plonk of Bessemer City. Mrs. J. P. Harris of Oxford, and Mr. and Mrs. H.
H. White of Rock Hill, S. C. Dr. Kenneth J. Foreman, professor of Bible, was the speaker.

The following visited the chapter on Thanksgiving Day: Misses Sara Walker, Charlotte; Pete Schlosser, Greensboro; and others. The complete order
of service included: Prelude; Gloria Patri; invocation, Dr. W. L. Lingle; hymn, “Night’s Shadows Falling Men to Rest are Calling;”
Scripture, Psalm 51; hymn, “Jesus, Saviour, Pilot Me;” offering, offertory response; special music, quartet; sermon; final prayer and benediction; closing,
chant.

Alumni who visited the chapter's house over the week-end were Gordon, Cleveland, and Milton Chipman, Foster and Hall, along with
others. Those attending the "D" Club dance were Lawrence Reid and “Buddy” Branton, A. O. Cooke, Cage Brewer, and Jack
Tillotson. The following visited the chapter on Thanksgiving Day: Misses Sara Walker, Charlotte; Pete Schlosser, Greensboro; and others.

Pi Kappa Alpha

The chapter held its Thanksgiving dinner last Wednesday night. Visitors were Coach and Mrs. Laird, Hazel Harris, Heath Whittle, and
others. Johnny Chalk spent the holidays hunting in the eastern part of the state. Albert Myers visited his home at
Gastonia. Howard Covington went to Charlotte. Jim Westall traveled to Asheville, while Bob Anders spent the week-end in Charlotte.

Phi Delta Theta

The chapter's regular feed was held Sunday night. Johnny Allen traveled home to Greensboro. Alumni visitors during the week-end included:
Misses Virginia, Elsa, and Liberty Casali, Welch, W. Va.; Betty Baker, Charlotte; and Mr. and Mrs. Plonk of Bessemer City.
Mrs. J. P. Harris of Oxford, and Mr. and Mrs. H. H. White of Rock Hill, S. C.

Sigma Phi Epsilon

The chapter held its Thanksgiving dinner last Wednesday night. Visitors were Coach and Mrs. Laird, Hazel Harris, Heath Whittle, and
others. Johnny Chalk spent the holidays hunting in the eastern part of the state. Albert Myers visited his home at
Gastonia. Howard Covington went to Charlotte. Jim Westall traveled to Asheville, while Bob Anders spent the week-end in Charlotte.

Beta Theta Pi

A party was given Saturday night. Many pledges and other guests were present. Tom Hayes, Wade Barrow, Jack Branch, and
Billy Crooks went to Greensboro.Char-] over the weekend were: Alex Hen-| fessor of Bible and Philosophy, will M 1 Alice
Lang. The chapter is planning to hold| ne to Roe am. Tom Bree | lotte; Mary Donald, Rock Hill, S.|
derson, Charlie Gold, Hub Powell] be the guest minister for the serv- Le ( 1b et 1 informal banquet between
the | den and Andy Allen visited oyst| C.; May Clifton and Ellen Clifton, | and John McInnis, ices next
Sunday evening. Atlanta, Ga. Sellars and Moir Hall t weekend |. ; 5 Atet rore ecti homes | Pi Kappa
Phi | A feed was held lay Saturday| yes ey eer yey: 3 Snaea Gaatntee H Mrs. H. L. Pippen
and Sa os ; L. Pippe t SH tyeeNen Gay AaENTU V5 c ‘ t 1 1 1 oa the
house Dukes, 27 The 7 ‘ : Dul k icluded: Ed] « eae ee ‘| Morgan, ‘29, Mari b Crogifis
ringing ) for ti ia Dit )ioNt H lurrentine G; Duke ) : rf ; ane bh 103¢5 |i le
aslo TOL < : le Se "31, ‘Bel- THIS WEEK-EN daa See (Continued from Page 1) |S. aE och t
ee HeeGnt Van Patt ym, 37, Concord; and 1 J wel rie 5, Wytheville, T a) ‘ | 4 set
r ing | Kappa Alpha I ca ( Sep ont t WeDick slay \}} : ; eld | race |
Gil .Pa 1, t} Ar | ef Dillon, t +} i t ‘ Marshal 1 ‘ 0) n W: thy
ce dot M N.C t 1 i at TTL n t | ISON Sy et Vance ( | t n
al oH Reg | visited “ | ert 1R t pela tee and deser gan ¢€ I mo \ Gharlotte,
% beeen ; ye ; ORCS ORT aOR ent » S 1} jue aig z g rtanburg, | , |
e ° | s n nt the weekend in| ’ ? a ecu ede Raa When I’m fora thing I’m
all for it! t 4 Ware irlie Pil I the) t hel ! ( | ° . ; isboro. |
> eet Ee | I like Chesterfields...I-like ’em a lot t t ; Senta T Voelecend F puest emen |
Perea ine Ne ...we all go for ’em around here. J Julian | r ' ‘ ie) He it °
ee ie ' Chesterfields are milder...and when ) \1e 1 ) | 1 ’ Theta Bi ! 0 it comes
to taste—they’re SWELL! r Phi G ) . i k-ench Bob Ev- | Hunter th Bobby G Pi Kappa |,
F Laurinb ited the | j Phi; Alice Murdock with Frank| house over the wee | y Harrison; Myra Gay
Daly ; t tees] th d th iy Se Ue eran Mle He S| Jor the goo 112s ; Mary
Ann Walker with Lil-] k d WE | e e tard. Bhi Delta (het \ ae cc g ard, Phi
Delta Theta; Mary Lou . : smoking can Live you... ise McClendon with Raymond Pitt-]e¢ ind French it to man,
Kappa Carol O'Neal] Lumberton, Saturday. Mye and with Terrell P Sigma Phi} James went to Laurinburg, over the Epsilon; Henrietta
Phillips with} weekend Richard Taylor, Kappa Alpha sfitt, Nab, Henry and Bill Arm- Also these members of the] feld and
their father, W. F. Arm- Sophomore Class will escort their| field, visited the house over the dates in the figure
Friday night:} weekend. Bob Abell, Ovid Bell, Phillip Fri- Kappa Sigma a berg, Harry Gasteiger, Warren Carl Carlson and George
Norfleet Gaw, Kenneth Lawson, Perry Sloan,| attended the Army-Navy game at Julian Squires and Jack Tillotson.| Philadelphia last Saturday. Me-
According to latest reports Ben-| Geachy and Pittman went home to ny Goodman will not play for a| Fayetteville, while
McAlpine went dance in Charlotte Thursday night.| home to Hartsville, S. C. Elden also WILDCAT JUMPING JACKS IN ACTION UP!
Shown above, in characteristic pose, are the five cheerleaders of the College, whose antics have contributed to f fans attending
Davidson's home and some out-of-town, football games. Under the leadership of Gene Vogler, these men ! f cheerleading hitherto unseen
in colleges other than the larger universities. ™ CHEERLEADERS —_ reel dope DAVIDSON THEATER Wed. Dec. 2 BOLD CABALLE An
excellent pictu days of gay yore. Sword fights, ve affairs, romantic settings, and all that go with a good exciting
picture. ¢¢ ¢ Thurs.-Fri. Dec. 3-4 LOVE ON THE RUN Scattered across half of Europe, this pell mell cinema chase
is thin but amusing comedy: Opening on the traditionally good shot of the heroine standing up her fiance at the
church, it follows the hectic adventures of a gorgeous American heiress from London to Nice. Joan Crawford plays the disgusted
Clark Gable, to cover They escape in a sto- carrying them a spy’s stolen plans of a fortification, Franchot Tone
is Public Goat No. 1. He walks off with bride who meets newspaperman assigned her wedding. plane, with len charter
J. M. WALKER GUEST (Continued from Page 1) The Woman at the Well It was only by touching David's sore
spot that Nathan was able to influence him, said Dr. Walker? In just the same way, it was only by
reminding the “woman at the well” that she had no real husband that Jesus was able to convert her from
her harlotry to Christianity. Then came David's confession, open, complete, with no excuses, It was hard for David to confess,
but it was his only way back to God. The minister pointed out two important things about the confession: (1)
That sin appears to the Godly man as something warped, twisted, and imperfect; and (2) that the sin was not
against Uriah, Bathsheba, his children, and his subjects, but against God. “Against Thee and Thee only have I sinned and
done this evil in Thy sight,” said David. Said Dr. Walker, “You have to go to Calvary to realize how
heinous sin is in God's sight.” That separated David from God, and it was necessary for David to realize that
before he could ask God's forgiveness. sin Copyright 1936, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.
