THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 30, 1936

Prof. Blythe Enjoys Trip To S. American Continent
Professor’s First Aerial Venture Is Seven Hundred Flight Over Peru

TRAVELS ALL SUMMER

Phi Gams Head List In Scholastic Rating
The Phi Gamma Delta fraternity led all other social fraternities in their respective scholastic averages for the 1935-36 session, Mr.
F. W. Hengeveld, registrar of the college, announced Monday.

Phi Gamma Delta was at the top with a rating of 2.347; Kappa Sigma stood second with an average of
1.852; and Pi Kappa Alpha took third place with a score of 1.841. Phi Delta Theta 1.811; Sigma Phi Epsilon,
1.654; Beta Theta Pi with a rating of 1.597; Kappa Alpha, 1.589; Sigma Alpha Epsilon, 1.519; and Pi Kappa Phi,
1.372.

ALL MINISTERS TO MEET
Dr. Lingle Heads State Gathering of Protestants in Winston-Salem

For the first time in North Carolina’s church history, all the ministers of all the protestant denominations are being invited
to assemble to discuss their common interest in advancing the Christian gospel. The theme of their convocation is “The Abiding
Gospel in a Changing World.” The time is October 26-28, the place is the First Baptist Church in Winston-Salem. Dr.
Walter Lingle is president of the gathering. He also will make the opening address.

Dr. Lingle was unable to estimate the number of clergymen who will come because such a meeting has never before
been held; however, some idea can be gained from the fact that the invited preachers represent over a million protestant
Christians of thirteen denominations.

Among the GREEKS
Beta Theta Pi—Brother Bulwinkle was the guest of the chapter last Sunday. Brothers Edwards, Winn, Johnson, Abbott, Sanders, Borden, Cathey,
Sellers, and Pledge McKnight attended the Davidson-State game in Raleigh last Saturday. Brothers Martin, Smith, McClintock and Pegram went to
Charlotte for the Carolina-Wake Forest game.

Pi Kappa Alpha—Brothers Bob Anders, Bull Durham, Willie Moore, Doug Neal, Milton Crisp and Pledge Stanton Sherrod were in Raleigh
for the game Saturday night. Miss Alice Moretz of Hickory, and Brother Billy Armentrout were supper guests of the chapter
last Sunday. Walt Dickson visited in Hickory over the weekend. The Beta Chapter was represented at the National Convention in
New Orleans by Walt Dickson and H. R. Arbuckle Jr., district president and formerly of Beta Chapter. The Convention was
held from Sept. 1-7, and Zeb Long, Beta representative, was elected district president.

Kappa Alpha—Brothers Horace Lutz attended the game in Raleigh last Saturday night. Brothers John Anderson, Bob Downie, Dick Taylor, and
Joe Calvin went to the carnival in Charlotte last Saturday night. Brother Sam Hutaft visited the Chapter part of last
week. Brothers Maize, Waris, Calvin, Downie, Vance, Taylor, Gladden, and Sandy Moffett went to the game in Charlotte.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon—Brothers Fryfogle, Sloan and Pledge Brothers Jacobs and Thomas were supper guests of the chapter last Sunday night.

MISSIONARY ADDS NEW VOLUMES
More Space Secured To Provide For Books

The college library has purchased approximately one hundred new books. The greater portion of this are regular books for courses,
but a number of new books have also been bought. Among the more popular books recently secured are: “Gone With
the Wind,” “Drums Along the Mohawk,” Santayana’s “The Last Puritan,” Link’s “The Return of the Native,” Palmer’s “This Man’s World,”
Norton’s “An Adventure in Cosmology,” and Malraux’s “Days of Wrath.”

A list of the books needed for its courses is given to the librarian to be ordered. Curricular books are
selected by the professors with the assistance of suggestions from the students. A request box is provided at the door
of the library where the students place the names of books they would like to have. If a request is
made for a book, it will usually be ordered by the librarian.

Many Honorary Societies Hold Forth At Davidson
Prominent Organizations Reward Excellence in Various Activities

PHI BETA KAPPA HERE
On the campus of Davidson College, there are twenty-five different fraternities and societies. The majority of the honorary fraternities represent
high attainments in various fields of study and activities. For instance, Phi Beta Kappa leads in scholarship; another, in dramatics;
and another, in forensic activities.

A startling fact was revealed in the east when Professor Blythe was sustained by the New York police department. Just
as the spring term ended and Professor Blythe saw a session of summer teaching staring him in the face, he
suddenly decided he couldn’t or wouldn’t take it, so he booked passage on the Santa Lucia for South America. On
June 4th, he bade New York and work adios and sailed for the land of travel. A passport was secured
after he received a certificate from them saying his record in this field was spotless. No, Mr. Blythe hadn’t been
acting suspicious, he was attempting to secure a passport which would allow him to sail to South America.

This will be the first time since there has been a Freshman debating team that they have made a trip.
Charlie Mauze was elected manager at the last meeting of Forensic Council, which was held last Friday night, September 25.
He will hold tryouts for the Freshman team and will arrange the schedule. Mauze is a member of Alpha Phi
Epsilon, the International Relations Club, Kappa Alpha social fraternity. Last year he was a Junior manager on the business and
editorial staffs of the Quips and Cranks, and on the business staff of The Davidsonian.

The Y Cabinet, in tune with its intention to stress boys’ work this year, are organizing two lines of activity
for high school boys, the Hi-Y Club and Boy Scout troops. Ed Jackson, Ed Shewmake, Bill Wood, Kenneth Foreman, Neill
Whitlock and Marion Bryant, six representatives of the Hi-Y Club, attended a supper at the Charlotte Y. M. C. A.
on Tuesday night, September 22. At the supper there were about sixty people, representing the fifteen Hi-Y Clubs in Mecklenburg
County. The purpose of the conference was to help the Hi-Y officers and leaders of the county to organize their
clubs for the coming year.

Twenty prominent speakers representing twenty denominations of America will speak on the rather elaborate and varied program. A few of
the more outstanding men are: Bishop Paul B. Kern of the Methodist Church; Bishop Edward Penick of the Episcopal Church;
Dr. J. Blanton Belk, Presbyterian, of Richmond; Dr. McNeill Poteat of Raleigh; Dean Luther A. Weigle of the Yale Divinity
School; Dr. Paul S. Leinbach of the Reformed Evangelical Church of Philadelphia; Dr. Ivan Lee Holt, President of the Federal
Council of Churches.In Buenos Aires, (on a correspond: years work Churches in America; Dr. W. O. mas attended the game
in Raleigh. School hay ride HACKING local, but this year’s K: ay —U. Cae.; ity and much that is appropriate;
President in latitude with Charlotte), and Carver of Southern Baptist Seminary in Louisville; and Dr. Allan Sloan. Afterwards, Hoke Robinson
went to Augusta, Ga, for the week-end. Brother Neil Whitlock went to the game Saturday night and all had a
good time. Kappa Sigma—Brothers Carlson, Barrow, Higgins, Norfleet, and Bill Hill were at the Davidson-State game last Saturday. Brother Wade
Boggs went to Atlanta, Ga., for the weekend. Many of those attending the State game stopped by Durham for the
Duke-Colgate game. Brother Chubby King and Pledges Hudson and Ross went to Raleigh for the game. A large feed was
held Sunday night for members and pledges after which there was group singing.

SCHEDULE OF MEETINGS OF HONORARY FRATERNITIES

First and Third Weeks

Monday
7 P.M. Eumenean Society

Tuesday
7 P.M. Eta Sigma Phi

Wednesday
7 P.M. Philanthropic Society

Thursday
7 P.M. Alpha Epsilon Delta

Friday
7 P.M. Sigma Pi Sigma

8 P.M. Scabbard & Blade

9 P.M. Y.M.C.A. Cabinet

Second and Fourth Weeks

Monday
7 P.M. Beta Kappa Alpha

Tuesday
7 P.M. Phi Epsilon

Wednesday
7 P.M. Alpha Psi Omega

Thursday
7 P.M. Sigma Upsilon

Friday
7 P.M. Sigma Delta Psi

8 P.M. Gamma Sigma

9 P.M. Y.M.C.A. Cabinet

Ministerial Band

Phi Delta Theta—Brothers Allen Covington, Harmon, and Pledge Beall attended the game in Raleigh and visited the Chapel Hill Chapter.
Brothers Sanders and Newsome visited the chapter over the weekend. Mrs. W. W. Luther and daughter, and Mr. C. G.
Ludlam were guests of the chapter Friday. Brothers Greene, Bob Greene, Ralph McClelland, Tom Breeden, Andy Allen, Dennis, Myers, Stewart
Barnes, and Sam Cothran and Pledges Scarboro, Wells, and Gilmore went to the game in Charlotte. Sigma Phi Epsilon—Brothers Harper
and Moore went to Raleigh and St. Mary’s game Saturday. Brother helped scout Carolina for the Tennessee coach and was
caught note-taking.

GIANT LOCOMOTIVE COMING THIS WEEK

Although the fighting Wildcats’ smashing victory over State’s Wolfpack was the gridiron highlight of the weekend, the determined fight of
the Demon Deacons of Wake Forest against a powerful Carolina team was real football, from the kick-off to the final
whistle. The crowd of 12,000 gathered in Charlotte’s new stadium were stunned by the playing of the Deacons who led
for three quarters only to be defeated by two long drives in the last period.

PI KAPPA PHI

Founded at the College of Charleston, Dec. 10, 1904
40 Active Chapters
Colors: Gold and White
Flower: Red Rose

EPSILON CHAPTER OFFICERS

JOE HUNTER—Archon
JIM WILSON—Warden
KEN LAWSON—Historian
DUNLAP COVINGTON—Treasurer

BUFF SHOE SHOP
SHOE REPAIRING
“It’s Done By Buff That’s Enuff”

THE IDEAL BOARDING PLACE!
Select your own meal: a 25¢ breakfast, a 40¢ lunch, and a 40¢ supper at a monthly rate. This reduction
was made with the hope that boys will take advantage of it to justify our continuing it.

WHITE DRUG CO.
CHARLOTTE’S LEADING MEN’S STORE
DAVIDSON, N. C.
