THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 8, 1936

ALUMNI ELECT NEW OFFICERS
Richmond Chapter Meets; Grier Martin, Norman Shep- hard Attend

The Richmond Chapter of the Davidson Alumni Association held a meeting on Wednesday night, March 25th, at the Seminary. The meeting was made possible with the aid of T. R. Unnar of the chapter. Grier Martin showed pictures of the Davidson campus, and Norman Shepard, the new president, delivered a speech.

CARL PRITCHETT LEADS

At the chapel service this morning, Carl Pritchett delivered a talk on "The Meaning of the Cross of History." He explained that the cross of Christ is the deepest mystery of God. The values of the life and teachings of Jesus are summed up and intensified in His death. Bluntly, Jesus who was crucified was God. The cross is filled with spiritual significance for us because the maker of men suffered there for them. The cross reveals the love of God. The question we want to ask is, "Is the Universe friendly?" This is the same as asking, "Is God Love?" A man must be able to answer yes before his life is worth living.

SPORTS STACCATO

(Continued from Page 4)

With optical examination certificates, our league Manager Bill Benfield commented on prospects for the team, saying: “If every man on the varsity could perform like Haake, and think like Wood Burns, we'd really have a ball club.” Bill suggested more practice on throw-ins from the outfield after base blows to cut down some of the undeserved extra bases the Duke hitters got last week.

The tennis team did themselves proud by only a scant margin of points. Next stop—Harvard! A long trip to Harvard is really something. If you've never seen them (or even if you have), you'll sure get an eyeful if you see Bill O'Brien’s pro tennis troupe featuring Ellsworth Vines, Testu Stoefen, Lott, and George Berkeley Bell at the Charlotte Armory on Friday night.

DEBATING TRIO

(Continued from Page 1)

The decision was in favor of the Supreme Court. The opponents presented several excellent arguments, but the Davidson team easily won.

CABINET SENDS FIVE

(Continued from Page 1)

On Sunday, March 15, Ralph McClain spoke in Charlotte. He discussed the importance of spiritual life and the example of Jesus, whose willingness to give himself for others culminated in the cross. The cross’ deepest meaning is in the forgiveness of sin. Christ died to deliver us from sin. This is the central message of the Christian religion. You must believe that Jesus was God, and that God, through Christ, forgives us. Only then can you find the true meaning of the cross. Carl Pritchett will speak three more times—tonight, at 10 A.M. Thursday morning, and 7:30 Thursday night, April 9. His meetings have been very well attended, and the student body has shown considerable interest.

CONCERT BAND MAKES TOUR

(Continued from Page 1)

The band entered Decatur, Ga., and played at Agnes Scott College that night, after which the college entertained them at a reception. Some of the members spent the night as guests of Columbia Seminary and others at the YMCA. The next day was perhaps the busiest of all. From 1:00 to 1:30, a radio concert was given over station WSB; then at 5:00 P.M. the band played at Martha Berry School in Rome, Ga. This school was described by many as the most beautiful of the entire tour. An outdoor concert was given that night at Darlington Prep School. Concluding this concert, the buses were again loaded, and the band and quartet went on to McCallie School, arriving around midnight.

The following morning they experienced a delightful bit of relaxation while listening to a girls’ glee club give a concert. At lunchtime, the Davidson quartet gave a short entertainment, and that night a concert was played at the University of Chattanooga. Saturday morning, the cry was “On to Montreat!” Arriving there at 5 o'clock in the afternoon, they put up at the Inn and looked like they were preparing to stay awhile. In truth, it was the longest stop of the trip because they arrived late Saturday afternoon and didn't leave until Monday morning. While there, they played a concert at Montreat College on Saturday night and a sacred concert on Sunday. Also, the quartet rendered some selections at the morning church service. The band and quartet were guests of the junior college at a reception on Saturday night. On Monday, they again took to the road and were at Lenoir.High school by dinner time. They played a concert there, and went on to Morganton for a night. They arrived at Winston-Salem and sang at a luncheon of the Rotary Club. A concert was also given there that night. Wednesday morning, the band gave an early morning concert at Reynolds High School in Winston-Salem, and before dinner time they were at Clemmons. About 1:30, they again sighted the dome of Chambers Building, and though the trip had been full of pleasant experiences, they all were very thankful to get back. The entire trip was a little over one thousand miles. Favorable comments about the trip continued, and many of these were received by Mr. James C. Pfohl, musical director, who was in charge of the trip. An even longer and better trip is being planned for next year.

MARTIN ANNOUNCES (Continued from Page 1)

Three years. He has sent out news to home-town papers of students who have made noteworthy accomplishments in the college, and supplied nearby papers and the Associated Press with news on the campus. In addition, it handled all routine correspondence and files which belong to his office. He will be succeeded by the standing committee of the Alumni Association, headed by Hugh Query, president of the Association, J. B. Johnston, and E. S. Richardson. These men will probably make their choice at the commencement meeting.

ANNUAL EDITOR (Continued from Page 1)

Squires, snapshots editor; Stewart, fraternities editor; Thompson, sports editor; Westall, associate editor. When the election is completed, the editor will pick his assistants from the group of sophomores who did work on the annual this year, and who as freshmen were active last year. No returns on the voting were available as The Davidsonian went to press.

CHRIST NEEDS NEW LEADERS
Union Theological Seminary, Richmond, Virginia. (A Serial Advertisement)

To the Christian Students of Davidson College:

We, as officers, aspire to the place of highest responsibility within our capacity. It should be so in Christ's army. As a military campaign develops, the opportunities for conspicuous achievement shift from one branch of the service to another. So it is in the area of life and civilization. Our national history illustrates this. Opportunity passed from the Colonial planters and merchant ship masters to the Revolutionary statesmen and soldiers, then to the westward-looking empire-builders, the transportation magnates, and the industrialists in turn. Where will the next great opportunity be? (To be continued in this space later) (If you would like to see this entire series in one setting, write for a copy to Ben R. Lacy, Jr., President, Union Theological Seminary)

WILDCAT GOLFERS (Continued from Page 4)

The University of Virginia at Charlottesville, 12 1-2 to 1-2. The points were as follows: Snow (D) 1 1-2 and Reed 1 1-2 halved; McClelland (D) 3 over Connor 0; Ross (D) 2 1-2 over Hammond 1-2; Cowan (D) 2 over Burley 1; Snow-McClelland 3 over Reed-Connor 0; Ross-Cowan 1 1-2 and Hammond-Burley 1 1-2. The 'Cats will be kept busy this week with four matches scheduled to be played on the Carolina Golf Club layout in Charlotte. The grind will open this afternoon against Furman University. The University of Georgia will be met on Thursday, the University of South Carolina on Friday, and Hampden-Sydney on Saturday. All the matches will start at 2 o'clock except Saturday's which begins at 11 o'clock. The same Davidson foursome of Bill Snow, Ralph McClelland, playing manager, George Cowan, and Charles Ross will see action.

Thu.-Fri.-Sat.
White
GREY'S
"GOLD"
With Larry Crabbe
Tom Keene

Special LATE OWL SHOW!
Saturday at 10:45 P.M.
"MUSS 'EM UP"
With Preston Foster
Margaret Callahan
Also Plays Monday and Tuesday
Wednesday-Thursday
"Here Comes Trouble"
Paul Kelly
Arline Judge

MATINEE NIGHT
WARNER BROS. BROADWAY
Southern Premier Showing
SUNDAY MIDNIGHT APRIL 12th

Cars For Rent
GULF GAS AND OIL
M. P. Henderson

AL JOLSON
"SINGING KID"
WITH ALL THESE STARS
Sybil Jason — Yacht Club Boys — Cab Calloway and his Famous Band — Edward Everett Horton — Allen Jenkins — Claire Dodd.

GAMECOCKS BATTLE HARD (Continued from Page 4)

Although the two teams split first places evenly, King of Furman accounted for four himself. He placed first in the high hurdles, the discus, shot put, and the high jump. His discus throw was 131 feet and high jump 5 feet 10 1-2 inches. Wade Barrow ran the 220-yard dash in 23.5 and the 220 low hurdles in 28.1 to win the two events. Gregory's winning time on the 440-yard dash was 54 seconds. The broad jump was taken by Dickson with a jump of 20 feet 9 1-2 inches, and Peabody placed second. Captain Billy Merchant ran the two-mile race in 10:29 with Brown and Parcell placing second and third. Besides making a clean sweep of the two-mile run, Davidson men took all places in the pole vault and javelin. Furman won the shot put and discus entirely. The pole vault went to 11 feet with Pitman, and Fort in a three-way tie. Johnston's throw of 154 feet 5 inches won the javelin. Mosely and Pearce finished second and third. Rohr of Furman ran the hundred in 10.1 which was excellent time on the wet track. Both mile and half-mile were won by Furman runners.

Less Acid
A LIGHT SMOKE OF RICH, RIPE-BODIED TOBACCO

Over a period of years, certain basic advances have been made in the selection and treatment of cigarette tobaccos for Lucky Strike Cigarettes. They include preliminary analyses of the tobacco selected; use of center leaves; the higher heat treatment of tobacco ("Toasting"); consideration of acid-alkaline balance, with consequent definite improvement in flavor; and controlled uniformity in the finished product. All these combine to produce a superior cigarette—a modern cigarette, a cigarette made of rich, ripe-bodied tobaccos—A Light Smoke.

Copyright 1936, The American Tobacco Company

Luckies are less acid
Recent chemical tests show* that other popular brands have an excess of acidity over Lucky Strike of from 53% to 100%.

Excess of Acidity of Other Popular Brands Over Lucky Strike Cigarettes

BALANCE
LUCKY STRIKE
BRAND A
BRAND B
BRAND C
BRAND D

*RESULTS VERIFIED BY INDEPENDENT CHEMICAL LABORATORIES AND RESEARCH GROUPS

"IT'S TOASTED"
Your throat protection against irritation against cough