WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 2, 1936

‘Gone With the Wind’ and Other Novels On Display

SOUTHERN THEME LEADS

The most popular book in America, and other historical novels on the South, are now on display in the Library. “Gone With the Wind,” an historical novel about Georgia during the war, is the fastest-selling book in America today. Even stock brokers in New York are reading it and talking about it. It is not the only historical novel on a Southern theme in the Davidson Library. In recent years, a great number of such novels have become popular.

“Gone With the Wind” theme which may be found in the library:

“Tides of Malvern” by Francis Griswold. Although Mr. Griswold is a Northerner, he caught the charm of Charleston so well that he seemed by one reviewer to write like an old Southern gentleman. The novel traces seven generations of a South Carolina family. “The book lives, the house lives, the family lives.” It helps to explain something of the Southerners’ feelings for the past which seems to many a Yankee ridiculous.

“Peter Ashley” by Du Bose Heyward. Charleston on the eve of the War Between the States is the hectic background. Peter Ashley has been educated at Oxford and is a liberal thinker. The feudalism of his native state seems an anachronism. Race Week, the slave market, the duel, are all handled with masterly detail. Peter Ashley is an extremely accurate type rather than an individual.

“Look Back to Glory” by Herbert Ravenel Sass. This is perhaps the most glamorous of the romantic tales of low country aristocrats. South Carolina was dancing on a volcano and Mr. Sass has captured the tenseness of the times. The women are too beautiful and the men too brave but after all, it's South Carolina — and fiction.

North Carolina

North Carolina has been less interested in her past than in her present. Her antebellum plantations were not so large as those of South Carolina and Virginia, nor was her history so highly colored.

“Marching On” by James Boyd. Eastern North Carolina is the scene. Mr. Boyd's greatest gift as a novelist is his power in making backgrounds live. Says Miss Cornelia Shaw in reviewing this book for the North Carolina Historical Review (vol. 4 pp. 491-3) “The tournament, the fiddling contest at the schoolhouse, the rice-field negroes and the funeral of the Scraggs girl were pictured without a flaw.”

Virginia

Virginia did much of her literary work on antebellum traditions in the days of Thomas N. Page and Mary Johnston. It is said that the Virginians created the Southern traditions in literature. In recent years their work has been less prolific.

“The Battleground” by Ellen Glasgow. While not as new a novel as the others listed, “The Battleground” is often mentioned as a standard by which recent Civil War tales are measured. There are battle references, but the main interest is directed towards non-combatants. Lee, Jackson, and other generals appear.

Georgia

Georgia has the country’s best seller “Gone With the Wind” to her credit, and on the same theme, Benet's poem “John Brown's Body” which reads like a novel and is as accurate as history. Readers who don't care for Southern romances or for poetry are dared by publishers to read these two and remain of their old opinion.

Mississippi

Mississippi, like South Carolina, had much to lose and has had difficulty coming back. The greatest plantations were in these two states.

“So Red the Rose” by Stark Young. “Montrose” and “Portobello” are as real to many readers as any of the remaining white-pillared mansions. This is the only one of the recent novels of this type which has been interpreted by the cinema.

Alabama

The cradle of the Confederacy has gone realistic, while there are novels, the better-known fiction on

LITERARY SOCIETY INAUGURATES OFFICERS

The Eumenean Literary Society held its regular meeting last Tuesday night, November 24, in its meeting hall. The greater part of the program was devoted to the installation of the society's new officers who had been elected at an earlier session. These officers, who will serve the rest of this year, include John D. Allen, president; Richard Vowles, vice-president; Sam Webb, secretary; and Fields Florine, critic.

After the investiture ceremonies, three freshmen who were applying for membership in the society read their papers required for admission. The society voted to accept the three, Stuart Oglesby, Jim Cooper, and Jack Holland, and they were added to the already growing list of freshmen who have joined. The group voted approval of the successful debate between representatives of the Philanthropic and Eumenean societies and made the preliminary plans for a similar program in the near future with the freshmen participating.

The Eumenean society is celebrating a century of activity on the Davidson campus this year and is considering several plans that have been presented for a special centennial program later in the school year.

Dees Writes of Life As Student in Germany

According to a recent letter received by a member of the faculty, Joe Dees, of the Class of '36, is enjoying his year as an exchange student at the University of Heidelberg, in Germany. Dees reports that he is picking up the language quite quickly and easily. In his letter, he stated that he was studying the history of German art and drama, philosophy, German history, French, and Italian.

GLEE CLUB WORKING WELL FOR McDONALD

This year’s edition of the Davidson College Glee Club is one of the best in years, according to statements that have come from both members of the student body and of the faculty. The club seems to have improved its balance and blending quality. Mr. Thane McDonald, able director for this year, has done an excellent piece of work. During the first part of the year, the repertoire of the club has been increased to a great extent and the library of music is well-rounded. It contains both sacred and secular pieces which the glee club has been using so far. The use of the glee club as a

Plan Freshman Debate With Philanthropic

The Davidsonian

Page Five

Campus Camera

Special Music and Singing Add Much to Our Vesper Services

TO PRESENT CONCERT

Club Will Probably Make Trip In Spring

Georgia, Watts Boys Cancel Water Fight

Monday morning after chapel, Wilbur Edwards, president of the student body, called a meeting of all boys who roomed in Watts and Georgia dormitories. The purpose of this meeting was to make plans for the Watts vs. Georgia football game which has come to be an annual classic. The main idea was to do away with the annual water fight which breaks forth the night before the game. Last year it cost the student body $200 of their damage fee. The administration threatens to make it $400 this year. It was agreed in the meeting that the athletic department would allow the students to use football equipment so the game could be carried off in great style. The date of the game will be announced later.

TO WRITE TWO ARTICLES

Relates His Experiences on Beginning Study in Foreign Land

Tells of Journey Across To England and Germany

The month of October was given over to language classes for foreigners. Below are listed a few of the attractions from the outside. The class dwindled to only a few by the end of the month. But on November 27, classes began in earnest for the whole university. Dees stated that he thought the

YEARS

MR. AND MRS. HAROLD CARLSON GRADUATED AT THE HEAD OF THEIR CLASS OF 140 FROM THE MECHANICAL ENGINEERING COURSE AT NEW YORK U. HIS AVERAGE WAS 95, HERS 94.8!

OF THE RICHEST COLLEGES IN AMERICA HAVE A TOTAL ENDOWMENT OF $1,290,721,000!

POULTRY POSTMEN

ROBERT E. PHILLIPS, GRADUATE STUDENT IN POULTRY HUSBANDRY AT KANSAS STATE COLLEGE, MAKES HENS LAY EGGS CONTAINING PERSONAL MESSAGES! THROUGH A PAINLESS OPERATION HE INSERTS A HOLLOW CORK CONTAINING THE MESSAGE INTO THE OVIDUCT IN PLACE OF THE YOLK. THE EGG FORMS NORMALLY AROUND IT.Ante-bellum Alabama has little to do with the graces of the gentry. “The Forge,” by G. S. Stribling. This is the first of Mr. Stribling’s trilogy. The Vaiden family is middle class and as in real life not so lovely. Lythe. A story of revenge in which the Civil War plays only an incidental part. Critics have said that page by page this is a better book than “Gone With the Wind.” It is at present a best seller.

Davidson Theatre
Wed. Dec. 2
BOLD CABALLEROS—
Thurs.-Fri. Dec. 3-4
LOVE ON THE RUN—
Starring Joan Crawford, Clark Gable and Franchot Tone
An Excellent, Exciting Picture of the Days of Yore
Sat. Dec. 5
OUR RELATIVES—
Mon.-Tues. Dec. 7-8
With Stan Laurel and Oliver Hardy. A Funny Comedy
THE GENERAL DIED AT DAWN—
Gary Cooper, Madeline Carroll, Akim Tamiroff, Dudley Diggs

The Eumenean societies last week
“The Long Night,” by Andrew

Variety of Arms Owned
By Military Department
Caliber 22 Rifle Regular Practice on Indoor Range
HAVE TRENCH MORTAR
Davidson Unit Owns 423 Official Army Rifles

It is interesting to note that the military department here is equipped with many different types of firearms. These range from the smallest caliber rifle to the trench mortar. This complement of weapons has been here for the most part since the unit was organized shortly after the war.

The Caliber 22 rifle is the smallest of the group. It is designed along the lines of a regular service arm, and has a range of about 1000 yards. It is used to instruct students on the indoor gallery range. The official rifle of all defense forces of the United States is the caliber 30, of which there are 423 in the college contingent. This is the rifle carried by members of the R.O.T.C. when at drill. The rifle has a maximum range of about 6000 yards and an extreme degree of accuracy. The unit also has four machine guns and nine automatic rifles, both classes of which are used as accompanying arms for the service rifle in combat. The caliber 45 Colt automatic pistol is also a part of the armament. The department has 24 of these weapons, which are used by students in the advanced courses. In addition to those mentioned, there are 1-37 MM gun and a Stokes trench mortar. The former fires a one-pound shell and the latter a three-inch shell. The first is essentially an anti-tank weapon and the second is used for enemy trench destruction.

COLLEGIATE...
“Who were Milton, Shakespeare, Scott? —"Johnny, can you name?”
“Teacher dear, I know them all,
They played for Notre Dame.”
—Lenoir-Rhynean.

CAR FOR RENT
Cheap Rates . . Good Service
—See—
BILL BUSBY
At College Pharmacy

Sodas Used For
Candies
Around Town

The Twentieth Century Club met on Friday afternoon at the home of Mrs. C. J. Thies. Mrs. J. V. Lore gave a paper on “Kenilworth.”

Davidson High School started its basketball practice on Monday afternoon. Bill Quick, a member of the college team, will coach the boys.

Twelve of the members of the Davidson Hi-Y Club will attend the Older Boys’ Conference to be held in High Point Dec. 4 and 5. The conference was held in Durham last year and the club was also well represented at that conference.

The Kill-Kare Club met at the home of Miss Orrie Steele last week. A shower was given for Miss Lucy Currie.

On Saturday afternoon Mrs. G. R. Vowles and Mrs. Agnes Brown gave a shower at the home of the latter for Miss Lucy Currie. All those attending wrote advice for the bride-to-be.

A Scout troop has recently been organized in Davidson, with Mr. Frontis Johnston at the head.

Miss Mary Richards spent the Thanksgiving holidays with her brother Dr. McDowell Richards in Columbia, S.C.

Mr. and Mrs. Flake Laird entertained the Thelemite Club on last Friday evening at dinner. After the dinner, the members attended the plays being presented in Chambers Auditorium.

Miss Mary Withers brought home as her guests for Thanksgiving, Misses Jane and Betsy Dupuy of Greensboro.

Miss Elizabeth Shewmake spent the Thanksgiving holidays in New York City visiting her friends with whom she attended Cornell University last year.

Mrs. A. F. Plexico is spending several days with her son, Lee Plexico in Birmingham, Ala. It is expected that she will return home in about another week.

Societies Renew Old Rivalry As Debaters Discuss Freshman Vote

Renewing an old rivalry, the Philanthropic Literary Society defeated the Eumenean Society in the first inter-society debate for five years. The debate was held on Tuesday night, Nov. 17th, before a sizeable audience.

Henry Harkey and George Hornbeck, vice president and past president, respectively, of the Phi society, representing the negative side of the argument, came out victors over John Allen and Fitzhugh Dade who defended the affirmative side for the Eumenean society. The Eumenean society was the challenger and the Philanthropic society elected to defend the negative side of the question. The subject of the debate was: Resolved that the Freshman class should be allowed to vote in all student body elections, with the condition that all freshman votes should count as one half a regular vote.

Dr. Cazier Hood was judge for the debate, giving a close decision to Harkey and Hornbeck. Dr. Hood also cited several interesting instances concerning his work in criticism of the debate.

CUTEX MANICURE SETS
ZIPPER CLUB SETS
$1.25 VALUE
William’s Men Sets, 89c
5-POUND Assorted Chocolates $1.89
With Nut and Fruit Center
Schick Electric Razor $15.00
GUARANTEED
118 West Trade
CREATORS OF REASONABLE DRUG PRICES
128 NORTH TRYON
ECKERD’S “The Gift Store”
Where Selection Is Greatest
EXTRA SPECIAL
5-Year Diary, Autograph 29c
$1.25 VALUE
Woodbury’s Men Sets, 89c
NEWEST SELECTION
Kaywoodie and Frank Pipes
Photograph Took, Combination $5.00 VALUE
Wrist Watch, $3.19
Guaranteed Two Years
We Reserve the Right to Refuse to Sell Dealers
Phonograph Records—Victor Decca & Brunswick
All the Popular Numbers in Stock—Call By and Play Them
PARKER-GARDNER CO.
Charlotte, N. C.

DID YOU KNOW...
That Notre Dame's football captain did not play one minute of last season?
That of an actual poll taken of American college students 50 percent reported that they had rather be captain of the Notre Dame football team than President of the United States...
That in 1865 a football team could have as many as 25 players on the field at once?

EXPERT WORKMANSHIP
HIGHEST QUALITY
BUFF SHOE SHOP
HALFSOLES HEELS
O. C. BUFF, Prop.

STAGE & SCREEN SHOW
FRIDAY - SATURDAY
ON THE STAGE
Friday 03:25 - 7:25 - 9:45
Saturday 03:35 - 7:25 - 9:45
Johnnie Dunn's
HOLLYWOOD HOLIDAY
17—PEOPLE—17
ON SCREEN
“SITTING ON THE MOON”
Roger Pryor—Grace Bradley
Night 35c—Matinee 25c

MON-TUES.
STUART ERWIN
Florence Rice - Paul Kelly
—in—
“Women Are Trouble”