6 THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 26, 1936

Davidson's director of music, James Pfohl, stated after the concert, "It was the largest and the most receptive audience at
any concert since my arrival at Davidson."

CAT TRACKMEN BEGIN

(Continued from Page 1)

The Davidson cinder squad began late February, in preparation for two main indoor meets and for the regular track season.

March 7—Carolina (indoor meet). March 14—Frosh there. April 4—P. J. C., here. April 11—Charlotte High, here (tentative). April 18—V. P.
I., here.

Several prospects are strong advocates of a large army, navy, and air force to assure peace to the nation, said
in his talk at the armory that he regards the R. O. T. C. as the "very seed of American
patriotism," and stated that the Committee on Military Affairs in the House of Representatives seriously is considering R. O. T.
C. men, and using them to promote Americanism.

Not until now, a plan was obtained for an increase of 2,000 men by accepting the applications of 200 of
the 7,000 men graduated by R. O. T. C. each year, giving them the rank of lieutenant in the regular
army with a salary of $1,800.

Norman Shepard succeeds Captain Norman Shepard as the new director of athletics at the University of North Carolina. Shepard has
the athletic experience and training, and makes a good impression. He is a thorough gentleman, liked by our students, faculty,
alumni, and citizens.

Job Fetzer, director of athletics at the University of North Carolina, said the following in a letter to Dr. Lingle:
"He is thoroughly qualified in three sports, namely football, basketball, and baseball; he has the athletic experience and training, and
makes a good impression. He is a thorough gentleman, liked by our students, faculty, alumni, and citizens."

One of the most interesting parts of the talk concerned some rock records which have been found in Wisconsin, supposedly
traceable to Leif Erickson’s voyage of exploration to this continent in the eleventh century. We know, he said, that the
Vikings wanted land in the early days when they plundered northern France, and we know that their descendants who came
to America made some of the best farmers in the West that the country has ever seen.

Of the three peoples, the Danes, the Swedes, and the Norwegians, the last talk in tones suggesting English speech, while
the Dane rips his words out in a staccato whirl, and the Swede has a more melodious accent.

In closing his talk, Dr. Johnson had Kenneth Scott play a beautiful Scandinavian folk song, a hymn, "The Great White
Throng," provided the national anthem of Norway, "Sons of Norway."

SINGERS GIVE CONCERT

(Continued from Page 1)

The bird "who sings unceasingly of Eden's Garden. He who hears his singing, swoons in deep enchantment."

In the final section, the Gypsy folk song, "Dark Eyes," the passionate, carefree favorite of Gypsies even today, was deeply
enjoyed.

THREE SPEAK

(Continued from Page 4)

The one-act play, short story, newspaper, biography, and magazine, came under the discussion of the western that needed cowboy stars
to general Harry Carey and Hoot Gibson for an increase of 2,000 men. The Thomason Bill, passed on August 30,
in the last session of Congress, and necessary to increase the number of men who are just good men could
be selected.

KITTENS LOSE FINAL TILT

(Continued from Page 4)

These last two games brought the Wildkitten total to ten victories in a fifteen-game schedule.the best received and the most
successful of all the concerts. The success and beauty in the arrangements of the Siberian Singers lies in their ability
to so vividly and realistically interpret music into voice.

Writing some sentences and isolated words on the blackboard, Dr. Johnson attempted to give some idea to his audience of
the general structure of the language. Edward Everett, a professor of physics, spoke in a sort of sing-song way of
speaking.

Norman Shepard has developed intramural athletics and conducted the physical education program at Randolph-Macon. In addition to his work at
Davidson, he has done summer work at Notre Dame, the University of Illinois, and Washington University. Shepard was born in
South Carolina, attended the public schools of Wilmington, and entered Davidson in 1923. He graduated and was married. His two
sons, Carl and Carl Jr., are graduates of North Carolina and Guilford College.

The Richmond Times-Dispatch, concerning his leaving, said: “Shepard is a young man of rare personality. He endeared himself to the
school’s students and countless others who knew him. Now that Davidson is a member of the conference, it is a
step up for him. But Randolph-Macon will miss him. He gave the school an undefeated team last year, the only
one in its history.”

Representative McSwain stated that the men thus appointed for further training would receive the necessary education. When he was told
that he must fill out the 200 necessary forms, Congressman McSwain said it was too late to give the competitive
examinations which he usually conducts to select his appointees. He therefore commissioned the heads of Wofford and Presbyterian Colleges, the
only two colleges in his district having R.O.T.C. units, to select from their bodies one man each to receive the
appointments.

He told an anecdote of an influential man whose son stood high for an appointment. The Congressman refused to allow
pressure to influence his decision, but as it happened, the man’s son was chosen. Had he been susceptible to influence,
another probably would have beaten him out.

Before he stopped, the Congressman became quite serious. He mentioned the very real peril to America, despite the arrangements and
the entire set-up. He told of “reds” on the campus of the University of Pennsylvania having a rally and asking
the officers of the Geddes Department to be present. The officers accepted the invitation and were called on to address
the body. One by one they spoke, and before they had finished, they had talked the assembled young communists around
to an American point of view, thereby nipping radicalism on their campus in the bud.

As McSwain was leaving the armory, your reporter managed to speak to him concerning his views on two matters of
importance to the entire country. Asked what he thought of the neutrality measures before Congress, McSwain replied that he had
voted the day before for an extension of the existing legislation on this matter. The extension passed both houses and
has received the President’s approval.

“A TRULY GREAT PICTURE”—Says PAUL MUNI “THE STORY OF LOUIS PASTEUR” If this story didn’t have a happy ending ...
YOU might not be alive today to see it.

CATS LOSE THREE GAMES (Continued from Page 4) The line-up: Davidson F GTP W. Forest F GTP Peabody 2 3
7 Chapell 5 3 13 Knorr 3 0 6 Aderhold 1 0 2 Kieswetter 0 0 0 Maret 0 0
0 Hancock 0 0 0 Patton 0 0 0 Cathey 2 0 4 Byrd 0 0 0 Armstrong 6 1
13 Mauney 1 0 2 Reid 0 0 0 Barnes 1 0 2 Quick 0 2 2 Hatcher 1 0
2 Score at the half: Dav. 12; W. Forest 15.

Chesterfields! Well, that’s different — their aroma is pleasing — they’re milder — they taste better — they burn right
— they don’t shed tobacco crumbs.
