— Y GREEK COUNCIL; ARMFIELD CHOSEN HEAD OF “B” COMPANY WINS COMPETITION

Che ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA Maviwdsontan LIBERTAS

“THE DAVIDSONIAN” STAFF WISHES THE STUDENT BODY A HAPPY VACATION

VOL. XXIII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., MAY 13, 1936 NUMBER 27

CAT MUSICAL GROUPS HOLD ELECTIONS FOR OFFICERS FOR ‘36-‘37; RADLEY HEADS BAND

Ramseur, Link, Bradley, Horton, Laws, Crooks Receive Positions

HARDING TO BE HERE

Symphonic Band to Remain For Commencement

The various Davidson Musical organizations held election of officers last week for the coming year. The newly elected officers of
the band are: Harris Bradley, Ashland, Ky., president; W. Crooks, Meridian, Miss., and Harry Parker, C., secretary. In the Glee
Club, the newly elected officers are as follows: C. M. Ramseur, Lincolnton, president; John Horton, Albemarle, vice-president; and Ellard Yow,
Henderson, secretary. The orchestra elected the following officers: W. C. Link, Charlotte, president; Bill Laws, Henderson, vice-president; and Rex Lenoir,
Sumter, S.C., secretary.

The entire Davidson Symphonic Band is being kept here for the commencement exercises. This organization will play a concert on
the campus Sunday afternoon, May 31. They will present another concert on Monday night, June 1. At the latter concert,
A. A. Harding, director of the famous University of Illinois band, will serve as guest conductor, and many musical directors
of North and South Carolina will be in attendance at this concert. Several special features are being planned for this
program. The members of the band will be fed in one of the local boarding houses, and their days will
be spent in rehearsals and recreation.

MAJ. COCHRAN TRANSFERRED

R. O. T. C. Instructor Ordered To Fort Huachuca

Major F. Cochran, associate professor in R.O.T.C. here, has received official notification from the War Department of his transfer from
his present station to Fort Huachuca, Arizona, on July 23. The order reads as follows: “By direction of the President,
Major Franklin M. Cochran, Infantry, is relieved from assignment and duty at Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina, effective on or
about July 23, and is then assigned to the 25th Infantry, Fort Huachuca, Arizona, to be proceeded to that station
and report for duty accordingly. The name of Major Cochran is removed from the detached officers list upon relief from
his present duty.”

Major Cochran has been stationed here at Davidson for the last six years, coming here from the Philippines in August,
1930, with the rank of captain. He instructed the classes in the first-year course of R.O.T.C. for one year but,
since then, has taught the freshmen in the first-year basic course. He was last summer awarded the rank of Major.

DR. VOWLES WILL SPEND SUMMER IN HEIDELBERG

This summer Dr. Vowles of the Davidson faculty will make an extended trip to Europe. He is primarily making this
trip to attend the celebration of the 550th Anniversary of the founding of the University of Heidelberg. Dr. Vowles will
be the Davidson representative at this celebration. On this trip, Dr. Vowles will be accompanied by his son, Richard, while
his wife will visit her mother in Minnesota. Dr. Vowles and his son will sail from New York on June
14, and after visiting Oxford (Continued on Page 6)

Company ‘B’ Wins Trophy Presented Each Year to Competitive Drill Winner

First Platoon of Company D Is Winner of Platoon Drill Contest

CUPS AWARDED TODAY

Bulwinkle and Dees Are Winning Commanders

In the Scabbard and Blade competitive drill Monday afternoon, Company B, commanded by Cadet Captain A. L. Bulwinkle, won the
company competition and First Platoon, Company D, commanded by Cadet First Lieutenant J. L. Dees, won the platoon competition. The
competition began at the regular drill period but continued on through until five o'clock. The units were competing for the
honorary military trophies offered by Scabbard and Blade, national honorary military fraternity, for the best-drilled company and the best-drilled platoon
in the battalion. Commander of the Hornets’ Nest Riflemen National Guard company stationed in Charlotte, Captain Boyette, Captain Chaplin of
the Engineers Company of the National Guard located in Charlotte, and First Lieutenant Dandriech of Captain Boyette’s company acted as
judges of the competition. The judges remarked after the drill that the competition had been exceptionally keen and the decision
a close one. They also said that they thought the battalion had a very fine group of men and that
the drill had been very good.

Company C, commanded by Cadet Captain J. W. Hassell, Jr., was a close second in the company competition with fifty-five
points to the fifty-six points of Company B. The units were scored on a percentage basis. The judges accorded each
movement executed by the units a certain percent and the sum was the unit's score. The company drill came first
as each company took the field individually and drilled unhindered by the remainder of the battalion. The commanders would report
to the judges and receive a card on which (Continued on Page 6)

PROF. FLEAGLE MAKES N.Y.A. WORK REPORT

Indications Point to Continuation of Government Help Next Year

The National Youth Administration, which has proven itself a great aid to students this year, will probably be continued next
year. Professor Fleagle says that no official notice has been given but plans are being made. The N.Y.A. was started
at the beginning of the school year. Its aim is to aid college men in paying for their education, and
though no stipulation is made, it is preferred that the money be used in paying the College. One hundred thirty-two
men have been employed by the N.Y.A. here at Davidson. They have received a total of $10,730 for nine months,
or an average of $11 a month each. The N.Y.A. is a part of the New Deal program and will
most likely continue next year. It has been successful throughout the country in the leading colleges. Prof. Fleagle, Prof. Fulcher,
and Dr. Vowles, who make up the committee here at Davidson, are making preparations for next year. The funds were
allotted for nine months. No N.Y.A. work will be given during the summer session. Men on the payroll this year
have done many valuable things. They have worked in the library, in the science laboratories, in the registrar’s office, in
the alumni office, in the laundry, and on the golf course. Some have taught classes and others have worked in
the high schools in Cornelius, Davidson, Huntersville, and Mooresville. They took a school census in Huntersville.

New Chemistry Professor

Avery Patton, above, has accepted an offer to join the faculty of Davidson College as Assistant Professor of Chemistry. (See
col. 4).

DR. W.L. CARSON WILL MAKE BACCALAUREATE ADDRESS TO SENIORS

Commencement Exercises Begin May 29; Graduation Set For June 2

With the 1936 commencement rapidly approaching, plans for that ceremony have almost been concluded. The exercises will begin on Friday,
May 29, with a meeting of the Executive Committee of the trustees of the college. This will be at 2:30.
Then, at 10 o'clock on Saturday morning, the regular Commencement meeting of the trustees will be held. The Executive Committee
of the Alumni Council will meet at 4:30, Saturday, and at 8:00 the Alumni Council itself will meet.

Dr. W. L. Carson, of Richmond, Va., will be the speaker at the baccalaureate service on Sunday, May 31, at
11:30 A.M. At 3 o'clock in the afternoon, the Davidson College Symphonic Band will play a Sacred Concert, and at
8 o'clock that night will find the alumni discussing the “Religious Life Influences at Davidson,” which discussion will be continued
on Monday at 9:30. Monday will also be the day of the class reunions and the annual Alumni Luncheon. The
Davidson College Symphonic Band will give a second concert at 8 o'clock on Monday night. Tuesday morning the grand finale
will take place with the graduation exercises. This will end the program.

TAFE NAMED

Robinson Appoints Assistant “Davidsonian” Business Managers

Hoke Robinson, newly elected Business Manager of The Davidsonian for next year, has announced the staff of men who will
assist him in his duties. The assistants, members of the junior class, are as follows: Maize Hall—Advertising Manager; Charlie Moore—Collection
Manager; Ralph Chandler and Wilson Lowrance—Circulation Managers; James Hill—Assistant Business Manager. These men have been appointed from the group of
sophomores who have been working on the staff at routine duties for the last two years. They will be assisted
at first by some of the men who held these offices during the past year, who are Charles Mauze, Bob
Vance, Bill Hill, (Continued on Page 6)

DAVIDSONIAN AWARDED HONOR RATING

College Weekly Retains Standing in National Press Association

RECEIVES 680 POINTS

All Departments of Paper Are Scored

“First Class Honor Rating” for the third consecutive year was the showing made by The Davidsonian in scoring sponsored by
the Associated Collegiate Press this fall. The first fifteen editions of the current school year were scored with the National
Scholastic Press Association MANUAL AND SCORE BOOK prepared by the University of Minnesota Department of Journalism. This publication made a
total of 680 out of a possible 1000 to better its last year’s rating by a margin of five points.
Papers were graded on the basis of news values and sources, news writing and editing, headlines, typography, and make-up, department
pages and special features. Front page make-up and the sports department were our strong points, while style and news writing
were our weaknesses. Lack of alumni and feature material was conspicuous by its absence according to our critic. However, the
features used were excellent and news was well digested.Tributed between various sources, news writing elicited the most comment from our
scoring agencies, and a number of members of the class of '33. Accepts Position as Assistant Chemistry Professor Mr. Avy
Patton, Jr. of the class of '35, on Saturday, May 9, accepted the invitation of the administration of Davidson College
to be an assistant professor in chemistry next year. Mr. Patton’s entire time will be devoted to the chemistry department.
He will teach two classes and will take charge of several laboratory sections. While at Davidson, Mr. Patton received many
and various honors. He is a Phi Beta Kappa and a student assistant in chemistry here. He was president of
Gamma Sigma Epsilon, a member of Sigma Pi Sigma, Pi Delta Alpha, Delta Phi Alpha, International Relations Club, the Honorary
Council, and was on the fraternity honor roll. Also during his college career, he was Junior Advisor and Baseball Manager,
and he managed “Quips and Cranks.” After his graduation at Davidson, he pursued graduate studies in the departments of chemistry
and biology at Tulane University, where he is working on an M.S. degree. At Tulane, Mr. Patton was a graduate
assistant in chemistry.

(Continued on Page 6)

TILLOTSON TO REPORT AT WEST POINT IN JULY

Jack Tillotson, a Davidson freshman who was appointed first alternate to go to West Point, will report for registration there
on July 1. John Thompson, also a Davidson freshman, has withdrawn from the academy, thus allowing Tillotson to succeed him.

NER PATON ADDED TO DAVIDSON FACULTY

Ed Armfield is President of Pan-Hellenic Council For School Year 1936-1937

Pan-Hellenic President

Ed Armfield, pictured above, has been elected by the new Pan-Hellenic Council as president of that organization for the year
1936-37.

JUNIOR OFFICERS ARE SELECTED FOR R.O.T.C.: FORTY PLACES FILLED, Additional Men May Be Added

Improvements were suggested along this line. To Junior Positions Here again, feature and human interest stories were stressed. Editing Bulletin
for sophomore was a good experience. Students applying for the advanced course in R.O.T.C. were announced yesterday by the department.
The old, alleeap Gothic type, which the make-up scorer found so unattractive, has since been replaced by a new type
for our headline. General make-up was good, front page excellent. Departments and special features were excellent. Crisp, B. Daniel, P.
A. Dar, I. Dooley, J. K. Dorsett, I. Z. Fant, K. L. Fort, S. J. Ganier, G. B. Ganier, S.
B. Goodman, H. B. Harkey, J. W. Helms, S. Henry, J. E. Holt, W. B. Riesewetter, R. M. Wing, M.
L. Lafferty, W. W. Lowrance, W. Lyons, H. H. Meladyen, N. L. McGene, C. R. Moore, G. W. Ner, B.
I. Paree, Miss Pharr, J. N. Smith, H. H. Theiling, J. Thompson, I. J. Dinas, Wallace, W. M. Wicker, and
J. Y. Wilson. Colonel Rhett stated that there is a strong possibility that some additional men would be chosen at
a later date due to the fact that practically every year, there are some men who do not return to
fill their positions.

(Continued on Page 6)

FIGURES GIVEN

Hengeveld Announces Results Of Recent Registration Period

The Registrar has announced that 445 upperclassmen have registered for the school year 1936-37. Forty men have not expressed their
intentions for next year, but it is expected that at least fifteen will return to Davidson, raising the total of
returning upperclassmen to 460. This will leave about 200 vacancies for members of the class of 1940, of which over
100 have been filled. The others will be filled by the middle of summer. It is planned to graduate 119
men at commencement, including eight men who finished their work in summer school last year. Six or eight of the
men who will receive their degrees will have to complete their work in summer school.

Ken Knorr is Chosen Secretary-Treasurer For the Coming Year

NEW COUNCIL SELECTED

Freddy Martin Highlight of Past Season

Armfield of Asheboro, next year’s president of the Pan-Hellenic Council, was elected at the first meeting, Monday, May 11. Ken
Knorr, of Staunton, Va., was made secretary-treasurer of the Council. Armfield is a member of the Sigma Alpha Epsilon social
fraternity, alternate captain of the football team for the coming year, a member of the “D” Club, on the dance
committees for his class in his sophomore and junior years, and won numerals in freshman baseball. Knorr is a member
of the Pi Kappa Alpha social fraternity, Sigma Delta Psi, and the “D” Club. He was a junior cheerleader during
the past year, managing editor of “Quips and Cranks,” played on the All-Americans, and was a member of the dance
committee of his class. The nine social fraternities elected the following men to represent them on the Council: Ed Armfield,
Sigma Alpha Epsilon; Jack Branch, Phi Delta Theta; Dunny Covington, Pi Kappa Phi; J. C. Crowell, Kappa Alpha; Bill Hill,
Kappa Sigma; Bob Johnson, Beta Theta Pi; Ken Knorr, Pi Kappa Alpha; Russell Patterson, Phi Gamma Delta; and Daumond Turner,
Sigma Phi Epsilon. The new council will meet during the week of May 10-16 to make plans for the rushing
season and dances of the coming centennial.

The officers of the Pan-Hellenic Council are elected as follows: Each fraternity elects its own representative, and these men form
the council.

ELECTION HELD FOR Y.M.C.A. BOARD

Boggs, Brown, Scott, Rising Seniors, and Hill, Wicker, Rising Juniors, Chosen

The election of the new Y.M.C.A. board was recently held. The new board consists of Boggs, Brown, Scott, rising seniors,
and Hill, Wicker, rising juniors. This body, with the aid of Dr. W. E. Lingle, Dr. H. M. Moffett, A.
L. McClure, and Walt Dickson, will control the “Y” and direct its activities. Among their duties are drawing up the
budget, securing speakers for the fall services, and making suggestions and recommendations to the cabinet. Boggs will be in charge
of the finance work, Brown will be in charge of world evangelism, and Hall will be in charge of securing
speakers. Scott served on the “Y” cabinet last year and will be in charge of student life. Wicker is president
of the Christian Endeavor Society.

COVINGTON WILL HEAD MASQUERS NEXT YEAR: OTHERS ALSO CHOSEN TO LEADING POSITIONS

Allen Is Chosen Vice-President, Mac Covington Secretary-Treasurer

PORT TO BE MANAGER

H. Covington, Crisp, McGeachy, and Rainey Initiated

“Dunny” Covington was elected president of the Red and Black Masquers for the coming year at the meeting of the
club last Thursday night. Other officers elected for the next school session were as follows: J. D. Allen, Jr., vice-president;
“Mac” Covington, secretary-treasurer; and Tyler Port, manager. Officers for the past year were Herring, president; Ball, vice-president; and John, treasurer.
After the election of officers at the meeting, four men were initiated into the group. They were: Milton Crisp, Hector
McGeachy, “Bud” Rainey, and Howard Covington. In order to gain admission, some of these men had to work on the
stage and some had to act in a play. These are the first men to be initiated on the new
point system recently adopted by the organization. The new officers will be installed at the meeting of the club on
the 14th of May. Following the installation service, the Masquers will enjoy a social hour. The plans for the work
of the Masquers for next year are not complete, but are going forward rapidly. The initial feature of the next
season will be a production made up of three one-act plays to be given early in October. A three-act play
will follow and will be presented in the latter part of November. This production may possibly be “The Importance of
Being Earnest,” a comedy by Oscar Wilde. The work of the club for the first term will be directed by
the new officers.

(Continued on Page 6)

RIFLE RANGE HONORS MAJ. COCHRAN

Rifle Range in Armory to Bear Name of Departing Officer

Colonel Rhett announced that the rifle range in the armory will be named in honor of Major Franklin M. Cochran,
who has been in charge of the range during the past year. Major Cochran has shown great initiative and zeal
in the construction and operation of the range. He has inspired those under his instruction to achieve those things worthy
of emulation. During the last few weeks, a great deal of work has been done on the range under the
supervision of Major Cochran with the able assistance of Sergeant Burton. Individual targets and improved tramways have been made so
that the targets can be moved into position and fired upon without the shooter having to rise from his prone
position. Strong lights with aluminum reflectors have been placed to make the targets clearer. A concrete base has been made
for the telescope used in spotting the shots so that it will not be shaken by vibrations. The range now
compares favorably with any National Rifle Association range throughout the country, and the cost of the improvement has been negligible
as salvage materials were used almost completely.
