THE DAVIDSONIAN
SEPTEMBER 23, 1936

Founded By the Class of 1915

The Davidsonian

1935 Member 1936
Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate year.
Entered as second-class matter March 3rd, 1879 at the Post Office at Davidson, N.C.

ARTICLES FOR PUBLICATION
Must be in the hands of Managing Editors by 4:00 o'clock Monday.
Letters to the Editor are welcome, but all letters for publication must be signed.

JIM MORTON ................................ Editor
R. H. ROBINSON .......................... Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
OWEN COOKE .................. Managing Editor
SAM COTHRAN ............... Managing Editor
HUGH CLID RANT ........... Managing Editor
Hector McGrady ............. Managing Editor
DICK VONNEGUT ............ Managing Editor
N. CATES WATSON .......... Sports Editor
HARRY KENDALL ........... Associate Editor
HOWARD OVERTON ......... Associate Editor
HAROLD STONE ............. Associate Editor
RAYMOND SMITH ........... Associate Editor
JOHN WING .................. Associate Editor

WEDNESDAY, SEPT. 23, 1936

I shall pass through this world but once; any thing therefore that I can do, or any kindness I can
show to any human being, or dumb animal, let me do it now. Let me not defer it or neglect
it, for I shall pass this way but once. — John Galsworthy

We extend our sincerest sympathy to Karl Jonas in the recent loss of his Mother and to W. E. Kunz
in the death of his Father. Both students are members of the Freshman Class.

Paragraphics....
DOC. UNGER

We join with his friends, the faculty and student body, in mourning the death of Coach Doc Unger, who was
injured in an automobile accident during the summer. He was known and liked by all the students. As a Coach,
he was worth, producing championship teams. As a Man, he was honored and respected by all.

ORIENTATION

Congratulations are due to the men of the Freshman Class and the men of the college as a whole for
the efficient way in which Orientation Week was conducted. We hope that it will continue to be successful.

We are proud of the new addition to our football stadium. This new addition, which marks the first completed step
of the Centennial Building Program, was erected during the summer months. It will enable more people to be comfortably seated,
gives a decidedly better view of teams in action, and eliminates a lot of work in putting up the old
bleachers. We thank the Richardson Brothers.

IMPROVEMENTS...

Members of the upper three classes can still remember the shuffling through the sobby sand that covered the entire area
in front of Chambers. But now it is only a memory because the bricks that cover the entire area in
front of Chambers. By the way, it took 26,000 bricks to do the job. Count them if you don’t believe
it. Another noticeable improvement is the rock wall constructed to the left of the Laundry. Much work has been done
during the past summer on the interior of all the buildings.

A SUGGESTION: ... Why not do something for the Eu and Phi Halls? Antiques are attractive when well preserved.

Study of Spanish is rising rapidly in importance and popularity in most U.S. colleges. Five hundred undergraduates will take part
in the Emergency Peace Campaign this summer. A Greek vase 2800 years old will be used in a Grinnell College
dance drama.

The Old and New...

Last Thursday Davidson College entered on its hundredth year with a distinguished record of service to the state and nation.
At the same time, we entered our hundred and first session. Ours is an interesting history and one that will
well repay the reader. Especially fascinating is the story of the dismal period following the War Between the States, and
the loss felt at the burning of old Chambers not two decades ago. Two things stand out throughout the whole
narrative—character and leadership. Whatever claims our college may have to a place in the world rest solely and solidly on
the character of those Christian men who have served and built for her during the past hundred years. Neither faculty
nor students can assume a monopoly of this quality of moral fitness which has grown to be a part of
the very college itself. From the finest homes in our Southland, they have come. And each, in his own way,
has given his best.

In those earliest days, Davidson represented the new idea in education—in that worthy students were given the opportunity for self-help.
Of course, the curriculum was largely classical, but there were many practical, and more or less vocational courses. Verily, that
faculty of three consecrated men must have seemed omniscient! Student government had its beginning in the once vigorous literary societies,
as did the tradition that no Davidson student shall deliberately seek an elective office. Other fields in which our alma
mater acted as a pioneer include the sciences (did you know that one of the first X-rays in the country
was made on this campus?) and student health.

Now again we take the lead, this time in music. There is, however, a very real danger in tradition and
prestige. There is the danger of contentment, possibly stagnation. Tempora mutantur, and those who fail to change with them can
easily be left by the wayside. Our new building program shows that college authorities are alive to this danger, conscious
of our shortcomings. Because a lot has been done here does not imply that nothing more should be done. There
are other changes, necessarily, than those of mere physical equipment. At present, the social life of the student body is
inadequately provided for, has failed to keep pace with changed ideas and standards of living. The curriculum might be revised
along more practical lines, without encroaching on the grounds of technical schooling. Let all and sundry be cherished where practical.

Campus Comments

Comments on the Davidsonian as a whole are in danger of living in the past. Students who have left behind
must have that friendliness which never did the college itself. It was more, so years ago. Friendliness impresses everyone. It
was everyone called everyone by the term of highest respect. This tradition for Davidson and a more democratic and understanding
future has fallen off.

At the football game last Saturday night, there was much cheering when our opponents were for any reason penalized. Hissing
and booing become no Davidson man. Because we have lived a hundred years of enviable growth does not mean we
have reached the full stature of possible advancement. We cannot be fair to those who have gone on before, to
those of us who are here now, and to those who will walk these paths long after we have gone
on, to let Davidson be anything but the best it is possible for her to be. And by turning loose
those traditions of friendliness, courtesy, sincerity, fraternalism—if you will—we will make Davidson what she can become. It is every man’s
duty to the past, the present, and the future to preserve the essential thing that marks a Davidson man—the Davidson
spirit!

J. WALTER DICKSON, JR.,
President of Y. M. C. A.

P. S.—I request Wilbur Edwards, President of the Student Body, to write Campus Comments.

Your column of last year has reformed and abandoned this college’s lesser sins, leaving us orphan. It has now, with
grave misgivings, fallen to the present writer, who, out of self-preservation, will remain unknown until the storm has spent itself.
As Cal, we regret with you the appointment; it seems he is not to be with us this year. Another
good one gone wrong.

This column is still, to its shame, nameless, and so it is likely to remain until its readers (we use
the plural with doubt) help us out. Just make a suggestion to someone on The Davidsonian staff. As for us,
inspiration is dead.

Without invading portscribe Faison’s territory, we would like to say something about the Duke game of last weekend. The exodus
of Davidson students to Greensboro was a credit to us all. To Cheer-Leader Vogler and Alumni Secretary Smith go our
congratulations on the success of this bus movement. Three large ones were filled to the rafters. Some misgivings were held
as to the worthiness of one of them, but all made the trip, eventually. If such aids are given later
on, most of us ought to see all our games. And it seemed that of the 15,000 who filled the
stands, a large percent were pro-Davidson.

The game itself was a rare one. With Duke in blue, if the Cats had just worn gray it would
have been another Civil War battle. It was Southagainst North as it was. But, cheese, youse guys from Duke are
were or two to ting those h Its on the band. We're for anything that gets the lights turned out.
— Woman's College looked like a school Saturday afternoon, and a good time was had by all. Those girls may
not use the expression “Fire,” but aside from that the same thing happens there when co-ed trousers appear, as when
a skirt invades these acres.

There were just about as many Duke men as Davidson on the campus that evening, but the Duke is several
volts under the Davidson power with the women in charge, if the looks of dates are any indication.

We understand that curiosity took its toll on the trip coming back to Davidson after the game. A car driven
by one of our junior cheerleaders stopped on the road to see the results of what looked like an accident.
The only accident involved was that the first car had run afoul of the law for some such trifling matter
as no tail lights. Tragedy was narrowly averted, however, when said law fence at the second car’s head; which he
even accused of not existing. It was a hard night for the driver of this offending vehicle. He was the
same high-spirited youth who was advised by the Greensboro constabulary to do his hog-calling either in the country or on
a football field, but definitely not on the main street of that quiet-loving city. And the hog he was calling
was also in the car.

Sympathy is extended to the freshmen class by this column on several points. The only one we can mention in
print, however, is their having to come here a week in advance. It seems that this resulted in a complete
drainage of their mental powers before the rest of us arrived, what with intelligence exams, talks, and whatnot.

And speaking of the intelligence of the freshman class, its members will be put to the test to equal the
record of the Class of '39, who on two occasions came through with a bang to name the Charlotte Observer's
“Nameless Column.” You'll have to go some to top that, Class of '40. You might start off by suggesting names
for the next issue of The Davidsonian (as a name for this column).

STOLEN THUNDER
By DAYMOND TURNER

Small son: “What is college bread, pop?”
Pop: “A four-year loaf, my boy, made from the flower of youth and the dough of old age.”

Dr. L. F. Campbell of Rush Medical College has the answer to a fat man’s prayer: a reducing diet that
allows heavy eating.

ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING
She talks if she wants to be an angle.
Detector—If she is picking your pockets.
Transformer—If she gets too excited.
Receiver—If she will meet you halfway.
Controller—If she gets too excited.
Feeder—If she wants chocolates.
Condenser—If she goes up in the air.
Tuner—If she sings inharmoniously.
Telegrapher—If she is out of town.
Discharger—If she is a poor cook.
Reducer—If she is too fat.
Rectifier—If she is wrong.
Regulator—If she talks too much.
Reverser—If she gets upset.

“COLLEGE LOVES”
Freshmen: 1. Himself, 2. Chewing gum, 3. Red Caps.
Sophomore: 1. Hot dogs, 2. Bluffing, 3. Himself.
Junior: 1. Knowledge (?), 2. Flattery, 3. Himself.
Senior: 1. Himself, 2. Himself, 3. Himself.

FRESHMAN’S PRAYER
I wish I was a little rock,
A-settin’ on a hill
Doin’ nothing all day long
But just a-settin’ still;
I wouldn't eat,
I wouldn't drink
I wouldn't even wash.
I'd set and set a thousand years,
And rest myself, By Gosh!

MODERN MARY
Mary had a little dress,
It was dainty and airy,
It didn't show a bit of dirt;
But Gosh, how it showed Mary.

Roses are red;
Violets are blue;
And sweet peas are all sorts of colors.
And I am as tired of all this as you are.

DAVIDSON THEATRE
Wednesday, Sept. 23
MY AMERICAN WIFE
Starring Francis Lederer, Ann Southern, Billie Burke. This is the story of an American heiress who marries a European count
and comes back to her home. This is a fast-moving, comical skit which is a throwback on married life. The
dialogue is smooth and the parts are well cast.

Friday, Sept. 25
MARY OF SCOTLAND
A historical picture based on the life of the unforgettable woman for whom it is named, giving to the world
Katherine Hepburn and Frederick March. Both these stars give stellar portrayals of its old Scotland!

Saturday, Sept. 26
MURDER WITH PICTURES
An exciting mystery play with dead men, storms, detective hots in the night, and a breath-taking finish that leaves you
breathless.

Monday, Sept. 28-29
WALKING ON AIR
Ann Southern, Jessie Ralph, and Henry Stephenson are cast together in a charming picture. Miss Southern is as beautiful and
sweet as ever and easily walks away with the cinema.

A Rice Institute student was expelled last week because he'd worn shorts to classes since March 1. Fourteen University of
Minnesota students have been assessed fifteen extra credits for graduation for participation in a “pajama parade.” Chances of employment this
June are four times better than they were a year ago, Columbia authorities report. Lake Erie College was the first
girls’ school to adopt aviation as part of the regular physical education department program. Colgate University is sponsoring a contest
to find the best student after-dinner speaker.

PRESIDENT LINGLE
DR. W. L. LINGLE, who is starting his eighth year as President of Davidson College, delivered the initial Vespers Service
of the year in Chambers Auditorium, Sunday, September 20.

Did You Know
Interesting Facts of Davidson College History
By SAM WEBB

Did You Know That...
The cornerstone for the first chapel was laid April 7, 1836.
Chambers building was named after Maxwell Chambers, the largest contributor to the college in its first fifty years.
The cornerstone for Chambers was laid in 1858.
Old Chambers was burned in 1925.
New Chambers was erected in 1928 at the cost of $630,000.00.
The Skinner organ in the auditorium cost $25,000.
The Eumenean Literary Society was founded April 14, 1837.
The Philanthropic Literary Society held its first meeting June 22, 1837.
The first college charter imposed a $200 fine on anyone who should present theatrical performances, dramatic recitations, or events within
two miles of the campus without special written permission of the Faculty of the College.
In the 1845-46 session, no student was permitted to “leave the limits of an ordinary walk” without obtaining permission from
a member of the faculty.

A Welcome
As we begin our college term for the year 1936-37, we aren't conscious of just what this year will bring
forth. We are all looking forward to it ending successfully, of course, and that should be our aim. In order
for it to end successfully, however, we must have certain ideals and principles in mind that we are going to
attain. If we live up to those ideals and principles, when the year is over, we will be satisfied in
our own minds that we have succeeded. We will have a feeling of self-satisfaction, whether we receive the praises of
others or not. Therefore, as I greet you, it’s with an appeal first to make our ideals and purposes high,
and then to strive toward accomplishing them in the manner of Christian gentlemen.

WILBUR EDWARDS, President of Student Body

A New York University professor sued an A & P store. M. I. T. students will build and sell a
“model” home every year under a plan just put into motion. Prof. Ernest Lawrence, University of California scientist, has succeeded
in turning platinum into gold.

Rush week will be over by the time this column appears, and about half of the freshman class will have
gone all pledged up. It has been a hard week for the campus, but a boom week for the local
telegraph office and the telephone company. Calls and wires have come in from everybody from Mahatma Gandhi to the King
of Sweden telling Johnny that if he doesn’t go Grumpa Grau the old frat will be on the rocks for
sure.

Now that all that’s over until next year, we can settle down to a little normal life. And we won't
be afraid to yell to a freshman to carry our laundry. We'll KNOW we're not rushing him.

Our Slogan: Every Job a Good One

Standard Printing Company
117 Garland Court
Charlotte, N.C.
