THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 8, 1936

HONOR ROLL
Peabody, Kiesewetter, and Knorr chosen as Gh waak's Basketball Stars by Carlyle Lewis Sports Afield

HONOR ROLL
Hodgin, Davis, and Parker selected as Wrestling Stars by “Swede” Johnson

By HARRY KUYKENDALL

The in- average far more than the Through all of inexperience, and it is a club that may develop into
Davidson team is teresting to Wildcat club. ness, play, watch its slow- general spotty a better than average Davidson team.”
Thus have sport scribes stamped the 1936 edition of Flake Laird’s Wildcat basketball team. Meeting the always prominent Tar Heel
cagers in the Charlotte Hi the played a spirited heads-up game until about the last ten minutes, when, dead tired
from lack of substitutions, they could no longer cover their auditorium, ‘cats men. As an authority on the game stated,
“The ‘Cats have a swell defense, but their offense is weak,” and this was certainly the case. The local lads
missed 8 foul shots to Carolina’s 4. One particular failing seemed to lie in futile shooting at distances when the
ball should have been played—overanxiousness played its part. With Co-captain Quick on the sidelines—with every member of the team composed
of Sophomores and Juniors—and with five of the eight men who played inexperienced, the local team made a remarkable showing
against the Conference champs, and the game was much closer than the score indicates. Ken Knorr and Morris Peabody did
all that could be expected of them in leading the ‘cats’ attack. Ken’s ability to stick with Jim McCachren, an
All-America prospect and All-Southern Conference guard for the past two years, kept that worthy from making a single point during
the entire first half. Interviewed in the Carolina dressing room after the game, McCachren stated that he believed “Maurice Peabody
and No. 10 (Kiesewetter) were our best.” Asked about Carolina’s being up to par Saturday night, Jim replied, “Well, see
we had a pretty tough game last night against Clemson—I believe we played better tonight than against them.” Hancock, Kiesewetter,
and Barrow, all newcomers to the varsity squad, gave promise of developing. Hancock, an elongated center who played at Bluefield
College before coming here, took good care of the tip-off job as well as placing his shots through the hoop.
Barrow made two particularly beautiful corner shots, while Kiesewetter opened up the fireworks and aided many an offensive thrust.

“TIMERS READY!” ‘Doc’ Unger’s grunt and groan artists drew first blood when they scalped the Spray wrestlers 22-1/2 here in
a pre-season contest. The local club, state champions of last year, has undergone a shakeup which would play havoc with
an ordinary team, but so well have sophomores Blue, Davis, and McFayden turned out, that prospects are just as good
as last year. Parker of Davidson, taking up his winning streak where he left off last year, handed his opponent
such a thorough beating that he could hardly walk back to the bench. Summerell of Davidson, another newcomer to the
varsity team, was not affected by his opponent’s statement “I'll get him” and forthwith proceeded to administer defeat in the
form of a decision. McFayden made short work of his man while Blue split honors with his opponent. Johnson, lacking
the necessary experience, had to sit out most of his match and lost the only decision of the meet. Hodgin,
though having some difficulty in keeping his man on the mat, had little trouble in pinning him.

WHITE PHANTOMS BEAT WILDCAT QUINT 45-27
Knorr, Kiesewetter, and Peabody Stand Out For Inexperienced Wildcats
PEABODY HIGH SCORER
Bershak, Mullis, Shine For Tar Heels

Nelson, Coach Flake Laird’s Wildcat Basketeers beat the Statesville All-Stars Wednesday night, January 1, but lost to the White Phantoms
of the University of North Carolina Saturday night, January 4.

DAVIDSON 29, STATESVILLE 24
The game with the Statesville All-Stars was played in the Mitchell College gym, and the Wildcats topped their opponents to
the tune of 29-24. The game was a rough and tumble affair, and many personal fouls were called against both
teams, with Kiesewetter and Peabody fouling out for the Wildcats. Knorr, with ten points, and Peabody, with eight, led the
Davidson scoring, while Quick played stellar defensive roles. Two Davidson alumni, Jack Wagner and Buck Mills, were shining lights in
the Statesville team, with Bradford and Brown taking individual high score honors.

CAROLINA 45, DAVIDSON 27
Carolina’s White Phantoms, defending Southern Conference and Big Five champs, got off to an early lead, and they were never
headed, winning 45-27. Kiesewetter sank two free throws soon after the start of the game for the first scores, but
Melvin Nelson knotted the count soon afterwards with a field goal. The lead see-sawed back and forth for a few
minutes, but Carolina’s quick-breaking attack put them ahead, and they led 20-11 at the half. The new rule placing the
ball out of bounds under the basket after the opposing team converts a foul shot served to speed up the
game considerably. The accurate-passing pair of McCachren and Ruth worked to the extent of giving Nelson five field goals, plus
a like number of foul shots, for individual high-scoring honors. Co-Captain Peabody, Knorr, Kiesewetter, and Barrow showed a teamwork that
gives Davidson supporters high hopes for the Wildcats.

Schedule Is Arranged For Wildcat Wrestlers
The Davidson Wildcat wrestling squad opened their season this year with a victory over the Spray Y. M. C. A.
by a score of 22-1/2 to 4-1/2 on December 14 in the local gym. The following is the schedule for
the remainder of the season:
Jan. 11; High Point “Y”—here.
Feb. 1; Duke—there.
Feb. 8; V. P. I.—there.
Feb. 15; Appalachian—here.
Feb. 22; Carolina—here.
Feb. 29; N. C. State—there.
March 2; Maryville State Teachers’ College—here.

SOCCER SQUAD CLOSES SEASON
Win Last Two Games of Season Defeating Furman 1 to 0 and Clemson 4 to 1
BELL AND ELDER STAR
Season Ends With Three Wins, Two Ties, Two Losses

The Wildcat soccer team ended its season by winning two straight games, one from Furman and the other from Clemson.

DAVIDSON 1, FURMAN 0

TOURNAMENT STAGE CONTEST
If Old “Man Weather” will ever tire of sending rainstorms and blizzards and allow the ground to become dry, the
annual horseshoe tournament will get underway. Topping the list of seeded tossers is Gordon Riggan. Following in order are James
Hartzog, Charles Harper, Robert Lyerly, Arthur Curtis, and Jim Hicks. Riggan will meet Frank Purdy in the first round of
the tournament while Hartzog will pitch against Dave Stocks. These men are picked to go through to the final round
but several “dark horses” are expected to give them a run for their money. Below is a complete list of
first-round matches:

Jim Hartzog.

Start the NEW YEAR Right with a HAIRCUT at NORTON’S Barber Shop
NORTON and CIDROAM, Prop.

Balance Your Budget! Eat at The LITTLE-PEP Sandwich Shop
Compare these prices with any on the hill (and then subtract the weekends).
Vegetable Plate, 25c—Plate Lunch, 30c and 35c
Regular Dinner, 40c
$5.75 Meal Tickets for $5.00

HAPPY NEW YEAR
We hope you will continueto make this your Davidson headquarters in the coming year, as you have done in the
past. We are ready to serve you at all times.

WHITE DRUG STORE

This fracas was played in a sharp rain and was featured by the slipping and sliding of the contestants. Davidson
took an early lead when Charlie Elder scored after the entire Wildcat line had worked the ball down close to
the Furman goal. Bell kicked the ball through in the first quarter for the only score of the game. McMullen
played a good defensive game for the ‘Cats, and McEaldern was outstanding for the losers.

DAVIDSON vs. CLEMSON

The ‘Cats took this one to the tune of 4-1, tallying once in every quarter. Charlie Bixler scored first with
a long kick that was just out of the Tiger goalie’s reach. Oscar Armstrong made the score 2-0 after taking
a pass from Bell. In the third quarter, Vicaria at center forward made the only Clemson score. The last two
goals for Davidson were made by Bell and Bixler, both on penalty kicks.

The ‘Cats have an average of 60% for the season, having won three games, tied two, and lost two. They
have scored 14 goals to their opponents' 8.

Frosh Wrestling Team Meets Salisbury Here

Davidson's freshman wrestlers will meet the Salisbury High School mat team at 3:30 o'clock, Friday afternoon, in the alumni gymnasium.
Ellis, Craver, McCall, Huntington, Ken Lawson, Ed Cloyd, Bud Hardin, Ned Iverson, George Davidson, George Kuykendall, Cage Brewer, Ed Bivens,
Harvey Glass, Fred Stair, Norman McCulloch, Leonard Woodward, Willie Vause, Bill Brown, Carl Groover, “Goof” Coke, Bill Johnston, John Tice,
Dan Iverson, Joe Hunter, Hoke Robinson, Ed Armfield, John Allen, Jim Armstrong, Dave Stocks, and Walker have been practicing regularly
and are showing up well, reports Coach Harrison.

Photos, Toys, Dresses
SOUTHERN 5c & 10c STORE

Our Aim is to Please

Exercise

In all the entertaining that will be done in Hotel Charlotte during the coming year, we couldn't take the contract
if it were to be stacked up in one place in one evening. We'd have to have rubber walls. Coming
as it will, though, in installments from evening to evening, and luncheon to luncheon, you needn't be apprehensive. Davidson boys
and their girls will be all set for them, as usual—mighty glad to see them. When you're making up your
New Year budget (or do you?) it’s pleasant to remember that there's no cover charge at “The Tavern.” Also, that
prices in the Main Dining Room are the something-or-other of reasonableness.

MAY YOUR NEW YEAR BE A HAPPY ONE.
HOTEL CHARLOTTE

WILDCAT MATMEN WHIP SPRAY WRESTLING TEAM

Fraternity Basketball Tourney To Begin Soon

War cries resound from all sides down in fraternity court as the various fraternities gird their loins for the approaching
basketball tournament, each hoping to wrest the crown held by Sigma Phi Epsilon for the past year. This is a
new year, and each brotherhood is resolved to start it off right with nothing less than victory being acceptable. All
of the teams drew first-round byes except the Kappa Sigs and Phi Gams; these two teams will meet in the
initial contest. Second-round encounters are as follows: S. P. E.—Beta; Phi Delt—Pi Kappa Phi; K. A.—S. A. E.; and Pika—winner
of the Kappa Sig-Phi Gam game.

WHITTLE PLANS FISTIC CONTEST

Director of Intramural Sports Heath Whittle has announced that practices for those who wish to participate in the Intramural Boxing
Tournament will begin immediately after the examinations period and will continue until the end of February when the tournament is
scheduled to be held. Whittle said that to the winners of this year’s bouts would be awarded silver boxing gloves
as symbols of their prowess. The tournament is to be divided into eight different weight classes, and a champion will
be chosen in each weight. John Lee will assist Whittle in conducting coaching classes for all of those uninitiated who
desire to match their brains and brawn against that of their schoolmates. This instruction will be given three or four
nights each week beginning the week of January 27 and continuing until the time of the tournament.

WILDCATS WIN (22 1/4-4 1/4) To Begin Big Five Scrap In February With Duke

The Davidson Wildcat matmen started off their season with a win over the Spray team, piling up 22 1/4 points
to their opponents' 4 1/4. The Cats lost one bout and tied one, but won the remaining five bouts either
by a time decision or a fall.

Summary: In the 118-pound class, Blue (D) and Hill (Spray) fought to a draw; 126—Davis, a promising sophomore, won by
a fall over Weaver in 4 minutes and 26 seconds; 135—Parker (D) won a time advantage over Whit by 8:47;
145—Summerell (D) won a time advantage over Moore by 3:11; 155—Joyce (Spray) won a time advantage over Johnson (D) by
8:8; 165—McFadden (D) won by a fall over Whittengrey of Spray in 9:28; 175—Hodgin (D) pinned Westall (Spray) in 8:26.
There was no unlimited class bout since the Spray “Y” did not have a man for that class.

Coach Unger said after the match that he was extremely pleased by the showing of two of his veterans, Hodgin
and Parker, and two new men, Davis and McFadden. “Davis, a sophomore,” says Coach Unger, “is the best 126-pounder that
I have ever coached here at Davidson.” McFadden, another new man, is looking good and is expected to come through
the season with a good record. Coach Unger is building up a large squad and he expects to use as
many of the reserves as possible and give the entire squad an opportunity to make a letter for next season.

HELPS PREVENT MANY COLDS

Especially designed aid for nose and upper throat, where most colds start.

VICKS VA-TRO-NOL
Regular Size 30¢
Double Quantity 50¢

“Interwoven”

On “The GO”

Long trips ... for pleasure or business ... call for comfort. Make sure of foot ease. Buy Interwoven Socks... you'll
also be sure of style and longer wear.

2 pairs $1.00
75c and $1.00 pair

J.B. Iwry & Co.
