THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 22, 1936

The Davidsonian
Founded By the Class of 1915
1935 Member 1936
Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate year.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879

ARTICLES FOR PUBLICATION must be in the hands of Managing Editors by 4:00 o'clock p.m., Monday. Letters to the Editor
are welcome, but all communications intended for publication must be signed.

they will never bear arms

Pacific Militarist .... Today some 35,000 students under the auspices of the NSPA participate in their annual “peace strike.” Ironically
enough, most of the members of Davidson's two lower classes celebrated this “out-law war day" by pacifically cleaning their rifles
for the government inspection! Yet we feel that these would-be-officers constitute a more real contribution towards the future peace of
our country than many of the rather frenzied demonstrations of those who swear that in behalf of their country, they
will never bear arms.

At a time when the Nye-Kvale Bill, outlawing compulsory military training in our colleges, is receiving such widespread acclamation in
the undergraduate press, we should like to protest at the flood of ill-considered criticism now being directed at our Reserve
Officers Training Corps. “Jingoist!” “Militarist!” “Worshipers of Mars!” shrieks the NSFA; “Threat of military dictatorship,” cry the self-styled guardians of
the proletariat; while the Hearst press disseminates enough anti-Japanese propaganda to convince the most gullible that we are on the
verge of extermination by air-minded Asiatics. But neither critics nor defenders have taken the trouble to inform themselves about just
what they are talking.

It is needless to discuss the merits of military training here, where, in the first year after such was made
optional, the battalion showed a larger enrollment than at any time in its history. But we would like to point
out that no other group in the country is more opposed to war than the army, and no other group
has less voice in bringing about a war. The War Department is the machine which fights the war. And the
pleasant knowledge that he will be among the first to get shot doesn’t inspire the average service man with an
urge to demand an act of Congress authorizing him to go out and die for blood-thirsty fellow-countrymen.

Don’t misunderstand us; the members of the Army, O.R.C., and National Guard are not cowards. Quite the contrary, they stand
second to none in courage and intelligence. They merely are not as likely to be misled by the propaganda which
floods our land whenever we seem about to become involved in foreign military controversy. Many of the peace strikers were
motivated by unquestioned sincerity, but we are tempted to feel that many more were swayed by the feeling of mass
activity which would impel the same strikers to be among the first to rush to the colors, should public opinion
endorse such action.

Look before you criticize!

Campus Comments

Dear Editor:

In answering the request to comment on student life my mind runs to a topic in which I am personally
quite interested. I refer to the changing status of the freshman on the campuses of American colleges and more particularly
on our own. In the past we have been prone to underrate the freshman as an individual and their class
which is always the largest in the student body. Every freshman who steps upon our campus is not only a
potential senior and alumnus, but a man whose destiny we can help to shape. As freshmen we respect and emulate
those older than we, but as upper-classmen we quickly lose sight of the influence we can wield over the freshman.
In most cases the attitudes instilled into a man during his first year at Davidson determine his conduct for four
years and even for life.

With this thought in mind several groups on the campus have suggested a plan for the election of the Freshman
Advisor in a slightly different way than that used now. Instead of allowing the freshmen to remain on the campus
three or four months before electing an Adviser themselves from the senior class, we suggest that in April the members
of O.D.K. place in nomination the names of several rising seniors, supplemented by nominations from the floor, and that the
rising seniors elect this man. If this idea were used it would mean that the Advisor could plan his work
during the summer, and be on hand to welcome the freshmen as they arrive. He could learn to know them
from the beginning, and act as their class president for the whole year. The man elected to this position will
realize that his is the largest field for service on the campus. His responsibilities will be second only to the
president of the student body, and the honor of the position will be proportionate. The procedure necessary to effect this
change is relatively simple, and I hope that we will be able to see it go into operation next year.

Sincerely,
BOB LINDSAY

P.S.—I request Woodrow Hassell, Captain of C Company, to submit a letter for Campus Comments for the next issue of
The Davidsonian.

So the student body feels that a swimming pool is the most crying need of the Davidson campus! No doubt
the administration is enjoying a hearty laugh at this! “Who will supply and pay for the water? What about the
cost of heating a pool in the winter? What about chlorination? Yes, and the cost of lockers? Undoubtedly the most
useless and expensive thing to keep up yet suggested. It wasn't even included in the building program!” Maybe the fact
that spring has arrived had something to do with this choice. Yet we feel that it is significant that students
chose three contributions which would have a direct bearing on physical health as their three major preferences. The infirmary was
a close second, while the gymnasium was not far behind. The importance of physical hygiene and sound health is increasingly
realized as a factor of major importance in successful living. It contributes not only to mental health, but spiritual adjustment,
as well. Mens sana in corpore sano has increasingly become the goal of the modern college.

Almost no other school of Davidson's size and rank fails to provide swimming facilities for its students. Next to golf
and tennis no other sport has become so universal, grown so popular. It provides an opportunity for building a well-developed
body; bringing into play, as it does, almost all muscles, it affords well-rounded development. Participation in inter-collegiate activities is necessarily
limited. With our present equipment intra-murals cannot hope to meet the recreational needs of all students. Besides, we have facilities
of a limited nature, it is true, for almost all forms of exercise save this one. It is the one
with which the great majority are already familiar. So our request for a swimming pool was not so ridiculous as
first appears! Perhaps the alumni and college authorities will continue to press our more practical needs. But the lack of
a swimming pool remains a glaring deficiency in our school plant. Should the students still want this next year, perhaps
they, you, we, all of us will have occasion to contribute towards the filling of that need.

HAROLD SUGG

Hot Air From the Yeast Of the Rising Sophomores

The most characteristic assertion of sluggish minds and congealed attitudes is that all criticism should be constructive, with the implication
that one who criticizes destructively is a thoughtless iconoclast best to be confined within the environs of Sheol. One needs
to defend the scoffed-at scoffer from this steam-rolling squelcher. A blot erased and an eyesore removed mean a picture brightened
and a landscape pacified; the World's great ill is Superfluity, and a bolt of lightning doth mightily clear the atmosphere.

One of the unpunished sins of omission for which those in authority are responsible is failure to dim the light
at a music recital—it increases the enjoyment thereof like a toothache adds to the delight of a buffet supper. Among
the disconcerting limitations of this life is that there has never been a musical program without the whispering conversationalist. And
the greatest boon to the enjoyment of music would be the abolition of applause until the end of intermission, or
program.

Recurrent Puerility

One expects to find the members of the Senior Class come out arrayed in short pants any day now, at
least those that room in Watts dormitory. Tom Ross, Sam Hutaff, Max Brittain, Ken Knorr, Pete McKnight, George Hornbeck, Leaping
Leroy Blackwelder are among those seen participating in that invigorating, dynamic sport of playing marbles this weekend. And rumor has
it that our genial and otherwise dignified Y.M.C.A. secretary is also addicted to this intriguing exercise.And your columnist would like
to submit the names of the great fraternal order who have been seen wearing those rather twerpish bow ties this
season: Donald Pfohl, Jake Morrow, Harpy Harlan, Ernest Dooley, Mills Taylor, Mitch Arrowsmith, Wally Tonissen, Tom Breeden, Bill Snow, Jack
Lafferty, Hugh Gracey, and Ralph Chandler. Pestiferous Personage No. 16 who by popular request that sweeps from all corners of
the campus, by thunderous demand one might say, columnist has been asked to include in that peculiar brood of malicious
marabous that are incubated under college conditions that particular pestiferous personage who keeps his company out over time. Dribble De
Mississippi and ever since has been trying to wash it away in the spring... Al Cade’s version of the Bugle
Call Rag: Hill and a handkerchief... Vaccinations have the R.O.T.C. gentlemen not so hot on the army idea now... A
Defeated Candidates Club has been started on this campus; emblem: a big bunch of very green grapes. Listerine Song: You
Took My Breath Away. Personal Nomination for Schnozz Club: Russell Kerr. And are all the fraternities going to Roaring Gap
or will anybody be original? Palaver Lawd made Schnozz. On who or what has Sid Marsh a monopoly that his
bets are great? And will Loch and Bill get a look in? And did Bob Atwater win his bet in
Greensboro? One hears of a certain R.B. Lindsay who at the ODK convention went for too much strychnine and got
heart trouble. Her first name was Kerry. And also one hears that a certain Ben Nash is being hypped, or
badly fooled. When Willie Kloshwatter Kiesewetter can go to a Carnival, escort a young lady, and return without intermittent stoppings,
then and only then can he live down the ignominious stigma of being a stray so or Cary Yankee. And
Bill Broadway went touring again. And Bill Black and Fred Furness are Post-Toasties Junior G Men. And Murray Mack walked
in Hawthorne Lane, (Prim-Path?) And Hindu and Tiger Jim enjoyed the Press Conference and that the Tiger has had a
dopey look in his eye since. And this has rambled far enough. OK, Tiger!

STOLEN THUNDER
By DAYMOND TURNER

ALL LIT UP... A college student is like a kerosene lamp: He usually is not very bright, is often turned
down, usually smokes, and often goes out at night. —Auburn Plainsman.

Not to be out-classed in the Veterans of Future Wars bonus march, the Vanderbilt chapter of that organization insists that
all college men ought to be officers in the next war, receive a $1,500 gratuity. Their slogan: “Every man a
first lieutenant by August. A future Veteran in every home by 1937.”

ODE
Pleasant to know,
Gorgeous to see,
Heaven to kiss,
But not for me.
Her lips are red,
Her eyes are blue (?),
Her dress is black,
And she is too!
—Pointer.

AS OTHERS SEE US... A sorority group at the University of Michigan rate their gentlemen friends thusly: A—smooth; B—okay; C—pass
in dark; D—semi-gloom; E—spook. Then there is the De Pauw co-ed who scribbled the following on a bulletin giving instructions
of what to do in case of fire: “Notify the dean of women—she'll throw a wet blanket on it.”

TO THE FACULTY... When I was a student recently, I took six subjects and I only flunked three; Which would
have helped towards my degree, If I hadn't, like a fool, dropped the other darned three. —Crimson-White.

SHORTS... A. E. A. Visitor: How many instructors work in this institution of learning? Student: About one-third of them!... Drunk:
Hey, gimme a horse’s neck. Second Ditto: I'll have a horse’s tail; no use killing more than one horse. Also
there was the absent-minded traveling salesman who wired home for reservations... Cost of the Hauptman trial totaled $2,000,000. Cost of
the current that electrocuted him totaled one cent.

LE PRINTEMPS... She wandered by the brookside Where the lilies and the violets hid And dipped her feet in waters
clear. B’ gosh, 'twas time she did!

CHAFF... We know a fellow who bought a car to see the world. He is, but it isn’t this world...
Home Ec students at Oklahoma have organized as “Veterans of Future Marriages.”... And ministerial students at Duke have formed the
“Chaplains of Future Wars.”... That pleasant tang you like in chewing gum is garlic.

OPEN FORUM
Dear Seniors: In a few more weeks you graduate. Now comes the stern realities of life. But you are prepared.
Sheepskin in hand you can look your prospective boss in the eye (of course, if you enter your father’s business,
it will be simpler) with confidence. Fix him with that hypnotic stare (Psychology), grasp his hand in the secret handclasp
(Chemical Fraternity), make a pointed observation about the weather (Astronomy), be sure to rattle off a “s'il vous plaît” (French
A) to show your command of foreign tongues, get off some mouth-filling phrase (English 1), assure him that you can
hear a letter (Business 8), astound him with an obscure Biblical reference (Bible 1), casually mention that two and two
are four (Math 1), and he is in your power. Should he be obstinate and fail to be amazed by
such a miracle of culture as a freshly-spewed Senior and hustle you from his presence, do not be discouraged. Fell
him with a gem from your store of miscellaneous erudition by shouting that a sonnet has fourteen lines or that
Constantinople fell in 1453. Then stalk away. If he is a Philistine, there are countless others who are ready to
swoon in the aurora of your personality and weird clothing combination. You have reams of useless information at school—but you
have acquired a background and some worthwhile knowledge. Point ahead, follow up your advantage and you may yet be worth
a little something. For goodness’ sake, do not think that you are the messiah to a starved world because of
a degree you haven't even really earned. To those seniors who believe that they are the Alpha and Omega of
wisdom and the quintessence of all success, I have a final word. With your diploma—and a nickel—you may ride any
subway and lots and lots of street cars.

(Signed) My point may be obscure but let me sermonize.
A. HAAKE,

Compare the NEWS From Davidsonians of Years Gone By

—Five Years Ago—
R. L. McCall is elected to the editorship of “Quips and Cranks.” Reeves Pope is chosen to be the editor
of the “Yow,” which is entering its second year. The Bowery Ball proves to be a great success. Plans are
completed for the spring services, with the speakers being Drs. W. T. Thompson, C. F. Myers, H. W. DuBose, and
S. A. Glasgow.

—Ten Years Ago—
Eleven students and 25 alumni are to be initiated into Omicron Delta Kappa with public ceremony. Mr. W. H. Williamson,
'86, leaves $60,000 to the college for the endowment of a chair. Mr. J. P. Williams is selected to be
the Dean of Freshmen. The senior class donates eight stone benches of Grecian design to the college as the class
gift.

—Fifteen Years Ago—
McFadden is elected to be president of the Athletic Association. The North Carolina Collegiate Press Association is to hold its
annual convention this year at Davidson. The debating team from Wake Forest downs the local forensic men on a topic
about the war loans.

THIS COLLEGIATE WORLD
(By Associated Collegiate Press)

When people up at Macalester College in St. Paul, ask Prof. William Augustus Cornell if he isn't the young man
who teaches the course in marriage problems, the professor generally changes the subject hurriedly. Mr. Cornell, you see, is a
bachelor in his mid-thirties. Mr. Cornell is strong for matrimony—for other people. “Love? No one can fall intelligently in love,”
declared the professor-bachelor. “But professor, who wants to be intelligent,” said a bright young thing in his class of 35.
“Spring,” said the professor, “is here, and class is dismissed.”

Shudder Note: Dean C. E. Edmonson of the University of Indiana has suggested that in the future all students there
ought to be fingerprinted for identification purposes.

Nine hundred and fifty alumni of the University of Notre Dame were asked this question recently: “Do you think you
missed anything by not attending a co-educational school?” Answers: 766 said “No.” 78 thundered “Absolutely Not!” 36 said “Yes.” 25
said “Social Life.” Eight said “Don't know.” Seven said “Possibly.” Five murmured, “Not much.”

They are experts on apples, out there at the University of Washington where the Yakimas and the Wenatchees come from—so
what they have to say about the business of apple polishing ought to be worth listening to. The student paper
set out to find just what amount of apple-polishing existed on the campus. They found there was much less of
it going on than popularly supposed. Most of the professors interviewed agreed that there wasn’t much of it. One even
said that “Many times students don’t come to see their instructors when they should just because they feel they will
be suspected of working for a grade.” One woman professor did have a “gripe” in this connection. Said she, “We
don't like to have all the brothers and sisters from a fraternity or sorority come down and try to high
pressure us into giving a student a higher grade so he or she can be initiated.”

Rollins Gives Degree To Pres. Roosevelt
Winter Park, Fla—(ACP)—In an impressive ceremony marked by praise for his past efforts, and a “pledge of our faith in
the laws yet to be drafted, papers yet to be written,” Rollins College conferred the Doctor of Literature degree upon
President Roosevelt last week. Mrs. Roosevelt was also honored by the college. Declaring that critics of his policies are invariably
motivated by group interests, instead of striving for the good of the whole nation, President Roosevelt pleaded for the “good
neighbor” policy.

OUR SLOGAN
“EVERY JOB A GOOD ONE”
More than a slogan. A Working Principle. Successful Efforts Extend from Calling Cards to Catalogs.
STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
117 Garland Court
Charlotte, N. C.
