THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 4, 1936

HONOR ROLL

Bob McClellan, George Mathis, and R. C. Crabb Chosen as Star Intramural Boxers

By Martin Barnett

SPORT— Wildcats Matmen Lose to Carolina Wrestlers

By HARRY KUYKENDALL

Thoroughly boxing-conscious after witnessing Davidson's annual slugfest, the Intramural boxing tourney, it behooves us spectators to give our opinions even though they be void of any significance. Departing from the usual procedure, first we want to say a word or two in favor of the losers. Most of them, it can truthfully be said, knew the odds were against their chances of winning, yet they stepped into the ring with the idea of doing their best and putting up a game struggle. It takes ability to “give,” but just as important, it calls for courage and a sporting spirit to “take” your medicine when you can get out of it easy enough. Thus to Pete Marchant, Lee Bankhead, Jim Morton, Clyde Daily, Jack Tillotson, Mokey Faison, Harry Gastieger, and “Skinny” Stevens, we hand down a few imaginary bouquets. “You've got to lose before you can win,” so keep at it.

Here are our nominations for the finals:
Closest bout—Morton and Ritchie.
Scrappiest—McClellan and Faison. Also Isler and Bankhead.
Coolest individual—Virgil Ritchie.
Best loser—Jack Tillotson.
Greatest disadvantage in height—“Midge” Verble.
Other reasons “why:” Ed Donigan’s swinging left, Isler’s experience, Verble’s aggressiveness, Bob McClellan’s punch.
Greatest disadvantage in weight: “Skinny” Stevens.

Disheartened by several catastrophes of the present season, Davidson's varsity “grunts and groaners” dropped the last meet of the season against a state team to “Truck” Quillan’s Carolina Tar Heels. The University mentor stated after the game, “It was undoubtedly the fastest and most interesting match that I have seen this year,” so Doc Unger’s proteges shouldn't be discouraged with the showing they have made this year, particularly after the victory over Maryville, Tennessee’s champs.

Ed Bob Blue, Tankersley of Carolina, stated that the latter was the “coolest” grappler he has met this year. The Carolina star, a sophomore, has had a pretty fair season this year, having defeated Rogers of Navy and several other luminaries, and next season’s match between the two should prove interesting. “Tank” had plenty of compliments for Bob's “strength” when interviewed in Greensboro.

The 145-pound class brought the keenest disappointment and best display of courage of the series when Frank Owen, who had over four minutes time advantage over Captain Bonner, slid off the mat and sustained a deep cut over his right eye. The plucky Davidson senior, in an almost semi-conscious condition, continued until the end of the match. However, Frank did not have enough time to give him the decision, necessitating an extra period, which was given to the Tar Heel captain as Owen was unable to continue.

Coach Quinlan remarked that it was “too bad Blackwelder couldn’t enter the Southern Conference meet, he'd win it in a walk.” We also believe Charlie Parker and Jim Hodgin would make good.

Very little has been said about this year’s basketball team. Although the number of wins has been discouraging, it was very evident that the local quint was making a vast improvement the latter part of the season. We are looking on this year’s activities as one of preparation for a very successful season next year as the entire team will return then. Coach Newton is experimenting with the “military shift” which is the one staged here on Richardson Field this fall by the Citadel team.

Phifer Erwin, manager of the wrestling team, just dropped by to say that Charlie Parker and Jack Branch have been elected captain and manager of next year’s team respectively.

Parker, Bixler, Blackwelder, And Hodgin Score Wins For Davidson

CATS LICK MARYVILLE

Blue, Davis, Parker, McFadyen, Hodgin, Blackwelder Top Maryville Men

The Davidson Wildcat wrestlers lost a close match to the University of North Carolina Tar Heels here last Wednesday night by a 20-18 count. In the final match of the season, the Cats handed Maryville College an 18-8 trouncing here last Saturday night.

Davidson 18—N. C. U. 20

In the 118-pound class, Blue of Davidson had a 3:20 time advantage over Tankersley at the time when the latter pinned him in 8:07. In the next match, Carolina's little 126-pound dynamo, Umstead, pinned Perry Davis in 2:04. 

135—Parker, Davidson, had very little trouble in pinning his opponent, Lytle, in 3:37.

145—Captain Bonner, Carolina, won over Owen by forfeit, after 10 minutes.

The 135-pound class match furnished most of the excitement of the evening. Bixler, of Davidson, after gaining a brief time advantage at the beginning of the bout, lost it and his opponent, Smith, was on his back to begin the Carolina advantage but when they hit the mat, Bixler miraculously arched against Smith who was behind and below him. Referee Jackins tapped Bixler on the chest for the second Cat victory of the evening and to bring the score to 15-10 in favor of the Tar Heels.

In the next match, 165-pound Captain Blackwelder, of Davidson, had no trouble at all in pinning Williams in 4:52 to hang up his 20th consecutive victory, and to tie the score at fifteen all.

173—Hodgin, of Davidson, marked up his sixth win of the season by gaining a 7:06 time advantage over Gwyn.

In a freak match, Alex Brown of Davidson was pinned by Kaluk in 5:17 after Brown had gained a two-minute advantage at the first of the match.

Davidson 18—Maryville College 8

118—Blue, Davidson, defeated R. Battalgio on time advantage of 5:55.
120—Davis, Davidson, defeated J. Battalgio on time advantage of 3:34.
135—Parker, Davidson, defeated Meares by time advantage of 9:00.
145—Charlie Sears, who has never wrestled at Davidson, was drafted from spring football after a three-hour workout Saturday to fill in at the 145 position. Sears put up a good fight but was pinned after 5:42.
155—Bixler, Davidson, lost to Propst of Maryville by a time advantage of 1:36.
165—McFadyen, Davidson, defeated Renfrow by a time advantage of 34 seconds after an extra period.
175—Hodgin, Davidson, defeated Millsaps by a time advantage of four minutes.
Unlimited—Davidson's Captain Blackwelder, although outweighed 48 pounds, finished his college career by winning his 21st straight victory over Gamble by a time advantage of 9:40.

31 Pool Sharks Will Battle For Title

Well, now is the time for all you pool sharks to chalk your cues and get the old eye in practice, for the annual pool tournament has started! There are 31 entries, namely: Martin, Dean McClelland, Fuyness, Daniel, Clark, C. C., Horibeck, Bell, W. F., Barrow, Allison, Morrow, Armstrong, J. W., Magill, Lanier, Lyerly, Friend, Burns, Elder, Howie, Hemphill, Campbell, K., Wharton, Woodward, L., Cathey, Isler, Pittman, Lewkel, Campbell, C., Pearce, Alexander, and Cowan. The seeded players are Martin, Cowan, Lyerly, and Friend. Two of these, Lyerly and Friend, have already reached the semi-finals and none of the favorites have been upset.

Whittle Picks Trackmen For Indoor Meet

March Twelve Freshmen and Varsity Men Will Represent Davidson Saturday

“Pete” Whittle, track coach, has announced the probable entrants from Davidson in the seventh annual Southern Conference Indoor Track Meet, which will be held at Chapel Hill on March 7. Davidson’s track men have been practicing daily in preparation for the stiff schedule which confronts the team. It is from these performances and those of last year’s runners that “Pete” has selected these men.

Three men will represent Davidson in the 60-yard sprint. These men are W. P. Dixon, A. M. Faison, and Frank E. Parker. Probable entrants in the high hurdles are W. M. Wicker, who turned in a good performance on last year’s freshman team, W. M. Deyerle, and Frank Parker.

The Wildcats will also enter a team in the mile relay, which consists of four four-forty yard runs. This team has not as yet been definitely selected, as there are many possibilities for it. The six runners from which the quartet will be chosen are R. R. Gregory, “Swede” Johnson, Wade Barrow, “Bill” Bell, C. B. Gladden, and J. B. Graham. During this week time trials will be held for these six men, and the four who make the best time will compete at the Southern Conference meet.

“Pete” also announced that there is a possibility of some entries in the freshman section of the meet. If any freshmen are sent to Chapel Hill, they will be J. W. Hickman, D. B. Woodward, and “Boo” Walker. Hickman, who made a fine showing in the Jay-Cee meet, will be entered in the sprints. Woodward and Walker, who in the fall both broke the record for the Cake Race, will represent the college in the three-quarters mile run.

Preparations are being made at the Tin Can to receive representatives from a large number of non-Conference colleges as well as from all the ten members of the Southern Conference. The Tar Heels are the defending champions, and will find much competition in the men from Maryland and Duke.

MAR. 18 OPENS LINKS SEASON

“We expect a very successful season this year. We have four lettermen back and everyone is showing good form,” said Charlie Ross when asked about the prospects of this season's golf team. This year's golf team will be chosen from the following candidates: Bill Snow, captain, Ralph McClelland, George Cowan, and Charlie Ross, these men are lettermen. The other contenders are Stuart Barnes, Erwin Bull, Hinson Maples, George Norfleet, Ab Price, and Jimmy Westall. These men began a tournament this week in Charlotte in which they will play 72 holes and the four low men will be taken as the team.

Last Saturday saw the first real practice that the boys have been able to get in so far. On account of the snow and wet weather all the practice they have secured has been a few “dry” swings in the corridors. The team is holding its practices in Charlotte at the course of the Carolina Golf Club. It was also stated that all matches which the team plays at home this season will be played on that course.The elimination tournament played this week. The team will have about one and a half weeks to get in shape for their first match and then a week following that before they leave on a trip north during the spring holidays. The following schedule has been (Continued on Page 6)

FAUL AND CRYMES, INC.
SPORTING GOODS
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
415 SOUTH TRYON ST.

April SPORTS AFIELD

Spring Sports Schedule

March 25, Varsity tennis, State.
March 25, Varsity tennis, Wofford, there.
March 26, Varsity track, Furman, there.
March 27, Freshman track, Presbyterian Jr. Col.
March 28, Varsity tennis, Presbyterian, Clinton.
March 30, Varsity tennis, Georgia Tech, Atlanta.
March 31, Varsity tennis, Emory and Henry, Atlanta.
April 1, Varsity tennis, Mercer, Macon.
April 2, Varsity tennis, Florida, Gainesville.
April 3, Varsity tennis, Rollins, Winter Park.
April 4, Varsity baseball, Lenoir Rhyne, there.
April 4, Varsity tennis, South Carolina, Columbia.
April 7, Varsity baseball, Duke, here.
April 7, Varsity baseball, Duke, here.
April 10, Varsity track, South Carolina here (tentative).
April 11, Varsity baseball, Rollins, here.
April 14, Varsity tennis, Elon, here.
April 15, Varsity baseball, Elon, Burlington (tentative).
April 16, Varsity baseball, Carolina, there.
April 17, Varsity tennis, Miami, here.
April 18, Varsity track, Duke, Durham.
April 18, Varsity tennis, Carolina, here.
April 18, Varsity baseball, Catawba, there.
April 20, Varsity tennis, Erskine, here.
April 21, Varsity baseball, Duke, Durham.
April 22, Varsity baseball, Duke, Durham.
April 22, Varsity track, V. P. I., Blacksburg.
April 23, Freshman track, V. P. I., Blacksburg.
April 23-24-25, Varsity tennis, State, Raleigh.
April 25, Varsity tennis, Duke, Durham.
April 25, Varsity tennis, Carolina, Chapel Hill.
April 27, Varsity baseball, Wake Forest, there.
April 27, Varsity baseball, Wake Forest, there.
April 29, Varsity track, State meet, Chapel Hill.
May 2, Varsity track, Maryville, here.
May 2, Freshman track, Presbyterian, here.
May 7, Varsity tennis, Virginia, there.
May 7, Varsity baseball, Carolina, here.
May 9, Varsity tennis, Country Club of Va., Richmond (tent.).
May 12, Varsity tennis, W. & L., there.
May 13, Varsity baseball, State, here.
May 13, Varsity baseball, State, here.
May 23, Varsity track, State meet, Chapel Hill.
May 23, Varsity baseball, State, there.
May 23, Varsity baseball, State, there.
May 25, Varsity baseball, Wake Forest, here.
May 25, Varsity baseball, Wake Forest, here.

Eight Boxers Crowned As Intramurals Close
McClellan, Donigan, Isler, Crabb, Ritchie, Verble, Mathis And Johnson Win

Boxing champions were crowned in eight divisions last Friday night as the annual Davidson College intramural tournament came to a close in the gymnasium. Four of the scraps ended in technical knockouts. Bob McClellan, 105 pounder, made quick work of his foe, Mokey Faison, stopping him in the first round. Eddie Donigan was too strong for Pete Marchant in the 115 pound class and the bout was stopped in the second round. Bankhead lasted until the third round with Isler, but the latter packed a little too much punch for him, his seconds tossing in the towel. Crabb, the most polished boxer in the meet and Golden Glove Champion from Texas, won a technical knockout over Daily in the second round. Both of these men weighed 145 pounds.

Ritchie and “Tiger Morton,” 135 pounders, threw the gloves on even terms for two rounds, but Ritchie’s left hook proved to be the winning margin in a close decision, as he won the last round. Stocky Midget Verble’s lefts and rights to the head spelled defeat for lanky Tillotson. Verble took the first round, using lefts and rights to the head; the second round was even; and the last round went to Midget by a wide margin. George Mathis had too much on the gloves for Gasteiger, and although the latter put up a game fight, George won a clean cut decision. In the final bout of the evening, Big Six Johnson won a decision over Stevens. Stevens was game, but was outclassed by “Big Six,” the latter having a weight advantage of thirty pounds.

In the semi-final Thursday afternoon, Ritchie won a decision over Gilbert, Morton got the nod over John Andrews, and Bankhead advanced to the finals with a close win over Robinson. The bouts were refereed by Major Cochran, while Coaches Red Laird, Doc Unger and Gene McEver served as judges. The winner in each class will be awarded silver boxing gloves in the form of a watch fob.

QUALITY at LOW COST
M. H. GOODRUM & CO.
HARDWARE DRY GOODS RADIOS

Drugs - to - Sodas
Make Our Store Your Store
White Drug Store
Prescriptions - - Sundries

HONOR ROLL:
Frank Owen, Leroy Blackwelder, and Jim Hodgin Picked as Wrestling Luminaries
By Jim Knox

Cats Drop Final Game to U.N.C.
Kittens Lose To Tar Heels In Final Game
Ned Iverson, “Little Swede” Johnson, John Tice, Bill Boyd And Jack Lee Lead Scoring

In a hard-fought contest packed with thrills, the Wildkitten basketeers lost their last game of the season to the Carolina freshmen, by a 35-30 score. The Davidson yearlings got off to a slow start and with the first half nearly over found themselves on the short end of a 12-3 score. But here they rallied and at the end of the period had cut down their opponents’ lead to two points, the score being 18-16. During most of the second half they played on even terms with the Tarbabies, as Iverson and Tice, the Davidson forwards, began to sink ‘em rapidly. However, with only a very few minutes to play the Carolina Frosh ran up a lead too big to be overcome. Iverson was high scorer with 12 points, closely followed by Bill McCachren and Jerry Stoopack of Carolina, who garnered 11 and 10 respectively. Lee, the elongated Kitten center, played well, getting 6 tallies.

Davidson G F T
Iverson 5 2 12
Tice 3 2 8
McCulloch 0 1 1
Lee 3 0 6
Johnson 1 0 2
Sloan 0 0 0
Boyd 0 0 0
Cox 0 0 0

Carolina G F T
Tracy 3 0 6
Markham 0 0 0
McCachren 5 1 11
Smith 1 0 2
Grossman 1 0 2
Cernugle 2 0 4
Stoopack 5 0 10

13 4 30 17 1 35

The Davidson Wildkittens finished one of the most successful seasons that any freshman basketball team here at Davidson has had in recent years. They won over half of their games and dropped contests only to the “Purpl-Peps,” N. C. State and Wake Forest. Statistics at the end of the season revealed that Ned Iverson had maintained his early lead in total points scored; he was followed by “Little Swede” Johnson and John Tice. Close behind were Bill Boyd and Jack Lee, whose totals differed only by two points. Other members of the squad were Perry Sloan, Bill Monie, Warren Gaw, “Boose” Brown, Allen Steele, Norman McCullough, Locke White, and Dick Taylor.

In last week's Davidsonian, it was announced that the Kittens had played their last game against Wake Forest, but last week Coach Chapman made arrangements for an additional game with the Carolina freshmen, which was played at Chapel Hill last Saturday night. This was not their final game as it has been recently announced that the Kittens will play the Faculty on Friday night.

An overwhelming majority of college professors are in opposition to New Deal policies, according to the American Liberty League.

An expert in Neuro-psychiatry has been added to the Williams College health department.

State Champs
Peabody, Reid and Hancock Star as Wildcats Are Defeated, 31-16
HEELS NEVER HEADED
Cat Second Half Rally Unable To Catch Phantoms

The Davidson Wildcats closed their 1936 season by dropping a 31-16 decision to Coach Skidmore’s White Phantoms, Big Five champions, in the Carolina Tin Can on Saturday night. The game opened very slowly, and neither team was able to break the scoring ice for the first five minutes. Finally, Captain Jim McCachren, stellar Tar Heel guard and super-floorman, sank a long goal from the middle of the floor to put the home team ahead, and, for the remainder of the game, the ‘Cats were unable to catch the flying Phantoms. The first half proved to be a nightmare to the invading Wildcats, who were able to tally but five points against Carolina’s total of twenty-one. The basket by McCachren unleashed Carolina’s vaunted scoring punch, and, in the face of a dazzling passing attack, the ‘Cats were snowed under by a steady stream of baskets. Davidson came on the floor at the start of the second half with a real fighting spirit, and the Wildcats proceeded to outscore Skidmore's charges 11-10. The ‘Cat passing was more accurate than in the preceding session, and the Wildcats were able to work their set plays to better advantage. Peabody with four points was high scorer for Davidson, followed by Reid and Hancock, with three points apiece. Melvin Nelson, star Heel forward, led the victors with eight points, while Mullis and Kaveny chalked up six points to tie for runner-up honors. Quick turned in his usual splendid brand of ball, and Armstrong, Reid, Knorr, and Hancock ably supported Quick and Peabody in a fighting finish that was unable to overtake Carolina’s early lead.

Davidson G F T
Peabody 2 0 4
Kiesewetter 1 0 2
Knorr 1 0 2
Barrow 0 1 1
Hancock 1 1 3
Armstrong 0 1 1
Reid 0 3 3
Quick 0 0 0

Carolina G F T
Nelson 4 0 8
Bershak 2 0 4
Mullis 2 2 6
Webster 0 1 1
Kaveny 3 0 6
McCachren 2 0 4
Ruth 1 0 2

6 16 31

Non-scoring substitutions:
N. C.: Grubb, Wright;
Davidson: Cathey, Yearwood.

Foul shots missed: Nelson 1; Bershak 2; Webster 1; Ruth 1; Knorr 1; Barrow 1; and Cathey 1.

Personal fouls committed by: Nelson; Mullis; Bershak 3; Webster; Kaveny; Ruth; Peabody 2; Armstrong 2; and Quick 3.

Officials: Gerard (N. Y.) and Hendrickson (Duke).

Amateur hockey and college basketball are increasing in popularity at Madison Square Garden.

Then there was the fellow who had hay fever so bad he sneezed every time he passed a grass-widow.

“Flattery is soft soap; and soft soap is 90% lye.” Alfred E. Smith.

Style go over the top
TOPSWING
Here’s the “high” in spring smartness. It’s that gusset sleeve, side-vented “Topswing” by Under-Grad! Definitely a “comer” with college dressers. Wear it this spring.
$29.50
Extra Trousers .. . $4.50
TATE-BROWN CO.
THIRD FLOOR