TO BURKE'S MUSIC AT BOWERY BALL

VOL. XXIII

STUDENTS WILL DANCE

Che ALENDA Lux UBL ORTA

LIBERTAS

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., APRIL 22, 1936

ROBINSON MADE VICE-PRESIDENT OF ASSOCIATION

Business Manager of Davidsonian Honored at N. C. C. P. A. Conclave

W. L. BROWN PRESIDES

Brown, Morton, and Robinson Represent Davidson

Hoke Robinson was elected second vice-president of the North Carolina Collegiate Press Association at its spring convention held in the
Sir Walter Hotel in Raleigh on April 16, 17, and 18. Lamont Brown, president for the year 1935-36, presided over
the meeting. The Davidsonian will be host to the meeting to be held in Davidson some time next fall. Those
delegates representing Davidson were Lamont Brown, Jim Morton, and Hoke Robinson. Wake Forest College was the host of this conclave
at which the following new officers were elected: James Mason of Wake Forest College, president; Pete Ehrie, of N. C.
State College, first vice-president; Hoke Robinson of Davidson, second vice-president; Nancy Powell of Meredith, third vice-president; Sis Terry of Flora
Macdonald, secretary; and Hoke Upchurch of Duke, treasurer.

The conclave opened formally on Thursday afternoon with registration on the Mezzanine of the Sir Walter hotel, followed by an
informal reception and tea at six o'clock. Mr. Thurman D. Kitchin, president of Wake Forest College, delivered the welcome address.
On Friday morning a general meeting was held and committees (Continued on Page 6)

McGAVOCK RECEIVES MATH SCHOLARSHIP

Will Go to Princeton University For a Year’s Work In Mathematics

Professor William G. McGavock of the mathematics department of the Davidson College faculty has announced that he has accepted a
scholarship for a year’s work at Princeton University, and that he will not return to Davidson next year.

Professor McGavock said that the scholarship was obtained through the General Educational Board, the same agency that secured a scholarship
to the University of Chicago for Professor J. T. Kimbrough. All expenses for the one year of study will be
paid by the scholarship. His work will begin next September and if it proves satisfactory there is a possibility that
he may secure a renewal of the scholarship for an additional year. The work will be in connection with securing
his Doctor's Degree.

Professor McGavock graduated from Davidson in 1930 with a B.S. degree, and later took his Master's Degree at Duke University.

BRILLIANT BOWERY BALL WILL CROWN COLLEGE'S EVENTS

REGISTRAR REQUESTS ALL JOB APPLICATIONS

All applications for student assistantships and monitorships should be turned into the office of the Registrar on or before Monday
or Tuesday of next week. These applications will be brought up before the May faculty meeting which will be held
around May 15 or soon before exams start. Since the applications for assistantships have to be filed and turned over
to the professors concerned, and since all applications for monitorships have to be considered by the Dean, Mr. Hengeveld requests
that they be turned in as soon as possible.

DEES RECEIVES GERMAN PRIZE

Scholarship Is Awarded By University of Heidelberg Every Year

Joseph Lister Dees of the class of 1936 has been awarded a scholarship at the University of Heidelberg for the
year 1936-37. Five years ago Dees, only 15 years old at the time, made a trip alone to Germany. He
is now deeply interested in the prospect of seeing it again through new eyes. He plans to study German language
and literature and hopes to continue his study after the year abroad.

Dees has been varsity cheerleader for the past year, and is a prominent member of the Red and Black Masquers,
having played one of the lead roles in their presentation of “Whistling in the Dark.” He is a member of
Alpha Phi Epsilon, Alpha Psi Omega, Sigma Upsilon, the International Relations Club, and is past president of the Eumanean Literary
Society. He is a member of the Kappa Sigma social fraternity.

The present holder of the scholarship, E. F. Horine, will return to the United States in August and resume his
work at Davidson in the fall. Under date of February 20, the Foreign Department of the University of Heidelberg wrote
to Dr. G. R. Vowles that the scholarship would be open for next year, and that in addition three summer
school scholarships had been assigned to Davidson for the summer of 1936. These all involve free tuition, but other expenses
must be borne by the student. The year scholarships are usually awarded to rising juniors, but the Heidelberg authorities have
informed the German Department of Davidson that graduates would be welcomed.

There are six candidates for the summer scholarships, but as yet no appointments have been made.

Local Women’s Group In Concord Presbytery Are Visitors of Local Church

The Davidson Presbyterian Church was host to a meeting of Concord Presbyterial last week, the 16th and 17th of April.
The assembly met in the church building and the delegates from the various churches were entertained in the homes of
local church members. Approximately three hundred and fifty ladies attended, representing the different churches in this Presbytery.

During the two-day conference local church women and students and professors of the college played leading parts on the program.
In the Thursday evening meeting which was opened by a worship service conducted by Dr. Moffett, pastor of the host
church, special music was rendered by the college string trio, composed of Warren P. Babcock, Wilber Edwards, and H. E.
Parker. After the presentation of the Birthday Objective by Mrs. G. R. Vowles, C. R. Ramseur gave a special selection.
Later in the program seven students presented “Little Tours to Foreign Lands” in which a student from each of the
foreign mission fields of the Southern Presbyterian Church gave a short talk. Represented were Africa, by Charles Crane; Brazil, by
A. L. Bixter; China, by R. A. Torrey; Japan, by A. P. Hassell; Korea, by W. F. Bell, and Mexico,
by Hervey Ross.

Highlights of the Friday morning (Continued on Page 5)

Blade and their dates. Best Costumes Chosen in a Grand March

TO HOLD MILITARY BALL

Figure to Feature Uniformed R.O.T.C. Officers

Davidson's celebrated Bowery Ball will crown a brilliant year of social events for the student body this weekend. Preceding the
Bowery event, there will be a Military Ball on Friday night from ten until two. This Ball will be sponsored
by the local chapter of Scabbard and Blade and will feature a figure consisting of the members of Scabbard and
Blade and their dates. There will also be a number of Junior R. O. T. C. officers in the figure
who are not members of the military fraternity. This dance will be formal for all those who do not take
part in the figure. Those taking part in the figure are to wear their military uniforms.

Saturday afternoon there will be a free Tea Dance sponsored by the nine Greek letter fraternities. This dance will be
open to all students and their friends and will last from four until six-thirty. The Bowery effect will be the
feature of the Saturday night dance which will last from eight-thirty until twelve. A Grand March will be held just
before the intermission during which the best costumes of the ball will be chosen and prizes awarded to the winners.

Joe Burke and his Duke Ambassadors will furnish the music for this set of dances. This orchestra is well known
in this state and to many Davidson students. It is famous for its imitation of Guy Lombardo and Hal Kemp.
A recent addition to their “brass section” has been “Corky” Cornelius, whom some Davidson tackles may remember. The vocalists for
this group are Jack Wilmot and Howard Winterson. Wilmot formerly sang on a radio program featuring Jack Lynch's orchestra of
Syracuse, N. Y. Winterson, before entering Duke, was awarded the Radio City scholarship for young singers. All members of this
orchestra are undergraduate students. In the past this group has filled engagements at William and Mary, University of North Carolina,
Charlotte Country Club, and Sweet Briar College.

The figure which is to be held (Continued on Page 5)

Association To Have Meeting

Harding To Address Classical Gathering in South Carolina

The Southern section of the Classical Association of the Middle West and South will meet with Furman University and the
Greenville Woman's College at Greenville, S. C. from April 23-25. Dr. C. K. Harding, professor of Greek, will be the
only representative from the classical department of Davidson. Dr. Harding will address the third session of the convention Friday forenoon
at 11:30 o'clock. The subject of his discourse will be “Again—‘St. John, Author of the Fourth Gospel’.” This convention represents
a section of the Classical Association which covers the South and the Middle West. The Southern section meets independently and
also in conjunction with the national association. One of the principal questions before the convention this year will be whether
this branch shall continue its independent meetings or entirely combine with the conventions of the larger sections.

The Classical Association of the Middle West and South is formed of the various professors of classical languages in the
colleges and universities that are members of the association. Dr. Harding has been professor of Greek at Davidson for a
great number of years.

Captain David L. Hardee, of Winston-Salem, will arrive tomorrow morning to inspect the R. O. T. C. unit here. He
will spend tomorrow in meeting and examining sections in each of the four classes, and in inspecting the records of
the department.

On Friday afternoon at 2:15 o'clock, the battalion will have the regular field inspection, which will include work in calisthenics,
close order and extended order drill, parade, and inspection of equipment. This will be conducted on Richardson Field, and the
public is cordially invited to attend.

EDWARDS CHOSEN AS PRESIDENT OF CHAPTER OF O. D. K.

SENDS FOUR TO CONCLAVE IN GEORGIA

Paul Harlan, Davidson's Official Representative, Gives Report

The Province Convention of the Omicron Delta Kappa honorary fraternity was held at the University of Georgia, Athens, Ga. on
April 17 and 18. Davidson was represented by four delegates, F. L. Jackson, P. Y. Harlan, R. B. Lindsay, and
R. T. Morrow. These delegates left on Thursday noon in Mr. Jackson's car and arrived at Athens in time for
supper.

The conclave opened formally on Friday morning with a business meeting at which representatives of the various circles rendered reports
on the accomplishments of each circle during the past year. P. Y. Harlan, Davidson's official delegate, rendered the report for
the Davidson order. This session wasfollowed by another business meeting in the afternoon, and on Friday night all delegates attended
a formal dress ball given in their honor by the Alpha Omicron Pi sorority. On Saturday morning the final session
was held at which reports of committees dealing with the business brought up at the previous meetings were considered. Dr.
Frank C. Brown of Duke University presided over the conclave. Among those present was William Moseley Brown, the National Executive
Secretary. There were in all about thirty delegates present representing the following colleges: Davidson, Rollins, University of Georgia, Emory, Georgia
Tech, and Duke. At that meeting held on April 14, the local order of the Omicron Delta Kappa set their
tap day for May 6, Wednesday morning at the regular chapel hour.

ABERNETHY APPOINTS EDITORS FOR ANNUAL
Seven Sophomores on Staff For Centennial Year Book

John K. Abernethy, newly-elected editor of the 1936-37 edition of “Quips and Cranks,” has announced his staff of assistants. Jim
Dorsett, Euc Fant, Haywood Hill, Jack Lafferty, Sam Lowe, Gil Palmer, and Dick Vowles will be junior managing editors. The
duties of the managing editors are divided as follows: photography editor, Euc Fant; sports editor, Dick Vowles; activities editor, Haywood
Hill; snapshots editor, Jack Lafferty; fraternity editor, Jim Dorsett; assistant editors, Gil Palmer and Sam Lowe. From among these seven
men will be elected the editor of the yearbook for 1938.

Rising sophomores who will assist in the production of the Centennial annual are Ovid Bell, C. W. Coghill, Jim Currie,
Warren Gaw, L. M. Hipp, Gene Kilpert, Raymond Pittman, Terrell Porter, Charles Roberts, Sam Thompson, M. H. Turner, T. E.
Walker, Locke White, and Dave Woodward. Several members of the class of 1940 will be selected for routine tasks on
the staff.

STUDENT COUNCIL
Ten New Members Are Re-Elected For Coming Year From Various Classes
TO BE INSTALLED SOON
Nominations Made at Chapel Period April 11

Wilber Edwards was elected president of the student council. He will succeed Carleton Chapman, who has been the president for
this year, in the recent student council elections. As is the custom, five rising seniors, three rising juniors, and two
men from the rising sophomore class were elected by the student body to make up the student council. The newly
elected seniors are Jack Branch, Walt Dickson, Jim Morton, Ken Scott, and John Winn. Charles Brown, “Teeny” Lafferty, and “Pat”
Patterson are the rising juniors elected, and Perry Sloan and Sam Webb are representatives of the sophomore class. These men
were elected from among those who were nominated in chapel on April 11. Seniors nominated at that time were John
Allen, Jack Branch, P. Port, A. Cathey, Tyler Ken Scott, and John Winn, Anders, Walt Dickson, Jim Morton, and Bob
Stewart nominated from the floor. Nominations from the future juniors were G. T. Brown, M. Hall, who were Bill Wiesewetter,
“Teeny” Lafferty, “Pat” Patterson, and Watson Street. Joe Calvin, Frank Harrison, Raymond Wittman, Perry Sloan, Sam Webb, and Locke White
were suggested from the present freshman class.

Wilber Edwards was a member of the 35-36 student council. Ken Scott is the only senior councilman who served during
the past year. Lafferty and Patterson both served during their sophomore year. The student councilmen for this year are Carleton
Chapman, Lamont Brown, Paul Harlan, Bob Lindsay, John Partridge, Mills Taylor, and Cole Windham from the senior class. Edwards, Wade
Boggs, Wilber Russell Patterson, and Ken Scott are the juniors serving. The present sophomores are Jim Dorsett, “Teeny” Lafferty, and
“Pat” Patterson. The newly elected councilmen will be installed soon.

Concerts End With Organist
Thane McDonald Presents Organ Recital in Final Concert of Year

The Davidson College Concert Series presented the final program of the 1935-36 season last Friday night featuring Thane McDonald, concert
organist from the University of Michigan. The program follows: Choral Prelude: “In Dir ist Freude,” by Bach; Sinfonia to “Ich
steh’ mit einem Fuss im Grabe,” by Bach; and Fantasia and Fugue in G minor, also by Bach. Mr. McDonald,
changing from Bach, chose from the works of Karg-Elert, “O Gott, du frommer Gott,” a choral improvisation, followed by “Scherzo,”
by the blind French organist. Samazeuilh's “Prelude” and Cesar Franck’s “Chorale in A minor” were the young organist’s next selections.
An interesting number of the latter part of the program was the suite, “Harmonices of Florence,” by Bingham. This was
followed by “Andante espressivo,” by Elgar. The program was concluded by “Toccata,” by Reger. The concert series this year was
conducted on the same plan as in former years. Season tickets were sold at the beginning of the year which
entitled the holders to admission to all of the concert series.

"Wire-tapping” on personal calls in girls’ schools and junior colleges is a widespread practice. Excessive bathing may mean a guilty
conscience, according to University of Chicago psychologists.

Editor of Handbook Selects Assistants

The staff for the Wildcat Handbook has been selected by John Winn, who was elected last week to edit this
publication. Winn named Jack Lafferty as fraternity editor, “Pat” Patterson as student government editor, and John Ransom as general editor.
Wally Tomlinson will be the activities editor, Milton Crisp will take care of the athletic section, and Torrey McLain will
be Y. M. C. A. editor. Laurence Reid was named as business manager for the coming year. He has selected
Tom Abbott, Bob Friend, and Perry Sloan for assistant business managers.

FORENSIC FRAT INITIATES MEN
Sugg Elected President For Next Year; Will Succeed Boggs

The last meeting of Alpha Phi Epsilon, forensic fraternity, was held on Wednesday night, April 15 at half past seven
o'clock in the social center. The meeting was held for the purpose of initiating new men. Those who were admitted
at this meeting are Fitz Dade, Jim Dorsett, Haywood Hill, George Hornbeck, “Chubby” Wing, Hector McGeachy, Torry McLain, and Watson
Street. Officers for the coming year were also elected at this meeting. Those chosen were Harold Sugg for president, and
Haywood Hill as secretary-treasurer. The retiring president is Wade Boggs. The meeting consisted of a period of testing in which
the “initiates to be” were accorded the privilege of addressing the most honorable group in impromptu speeches. These speeches were
in keeping with the deep literary ideals of the fraternity. George Hornbeck closed the talks with a convincing oration on
“Why the Philanthropic Literary Society should be Abolished.” Dorsett spoke on “Why Strawberries Destroy My Taste for Prunes.” McLain’s subject
sounds a little more appropriate, it was: “The Golden Mean of Internationalism.” Dade gave as his subject “Corrupt Practices Existing
Within Certain Sanctimonious Davidson Institutions.” McGeachy gave a very enlightening dissertation on the advantage of a bull's eye view of
a bird over a bird's eye view of the bull. The subjects of the other speakers not being so weighty
and cogent as the foregoing, they will not be included. After considerable deliberation, the neophytes were admitted into the august
body and were charged jointly with the precepts and principles.

(Continued on Page 5)

relapsed again after two days, his temperature rising. The first transfusion was given him on Friday, April 10, Jim R.
Motley donating the blood. The second was made on Wednesday, April 13, from A. I. Skinner. Berwyn Wuhn donated the
blood for the third transfusion, which was given on Saturday, April 19. Dr. Howard’s blood has a good resistance index.
This index is based on the number of white corpuscles in the blood. His white corpuscle count is 20,000.

More than 1,000 Warsaw University students picketed the Polish school recently in protest against high fees.

Davidsonian Poll Shows Students Want Swimming Pool, Infirmary, and Gym

The college needs a new swimming pool, according to the results of the Centennial Building Popularity Poll conducted by The
Davidsonian among the students on last Monday morning, April 20, during the chapel hour. The balloting was conducted in an
effort to determine what, in the opinion of the student body, was the most urgently needed improvement or addition to
the college equipment. Of the eleven proposed improvements, the swimming pool was rated first by the students with a total
of 123 votes. A new infirmary came second with 107 votes, and a new gymnasium was placed third in importance
by 72 votes. The other projects listed on the ballots, according to their importance, in the voting were: a new
science hall, a new social center, a field house (without a swimming pool), an additional dormitory, a new library, a
new church building, an extended curriculum, and an enlarged endowment fund. A total of 528 votes were cast, and therefore
the results of the voting are a rather accurate representation of the student opinion. The voting, by classes, was as
follows: freshmen, 171; sophomores, 144; juniors, 105; and seniors, 90.
