Page Two The Davidsonian Founded By the Class of 1915 Eu and Phi.... It is about time for the annual
editorial on the decline of the Literary Societies. Most writers seem to feel that at least some editorial notice is
still due those ancient institutions, the Eu and the Phi. The usual trend of such editorials is that it really
is a shame nobody takes an interest in the Literary Societies anymore and won't somebody do something about it.

© Distributors of Collegiate Digest Published Weekly "For a Better Davidson"

The Literary Societies have lost their glory and appeal to Davidson men. Whether the men lost interest in literary societies
with the advent of social fraternities or whether the usefulness and value of literary societies declined and then interest waned
does not really matter. As the situation stands now, neither society has more than a bare handful in attendance, and
the talent of most of its members consists in the ability to warm plush-covered seats and applaud a poorly prepared
extemporaneous speech.

Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY Charlotte, North Carolina SUBSCRIPTION RATES Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year Entered
as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879.

JIM MORTON Editor R. H. ROBINSON Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF Cooke Editor Hector McGe Editor Dick Vowles Editor Yates Faison Editor Harry Kuykendall Associate Editor Howell Overton Associate
Editor Harold Sugg Associate Editor Raymond Turn Associate Editor Pam Rybu Associate Editor F. Wilson Circulation Manager

There are still men here who need training in speaking, writing, debating, parliamentary procedure, etc., and the literary societies can
meet this need. There is no valid reason why they should die. One reason why they have so little appeal
is that their buildings are in such a state of disrepair as to be forbidding because of their dirt, broken
furnishings, dampness, and cold. Neither of the societies has funds necessary to repair their buildings.

If men tell you no stories about rockets, shooting stars, horses of high ranges, let them ask your pardon, excuse
themselves, and go away.—CARL SANDBURG.

SPONSORS ... We heartily approve the idea of having eight, or even eighty sponsors decorating the sidelines of our football
field. One difficulty: seeing the sponsors sitting on the other side of the field.

AUDITORIUM SCAR On the left side of Chambers Auditorium, near the top, you can see an ugly scar caused by
the paint peeling off during the summer. It would be very worthwhile for the College to have this imperfection mended.

WILDCATS ... The Wildcats squelched the Cadets. It was a one-sided affair from the first play. The football team played
an excellent game and we are proud of them. Carolina and Wake Forest, members of the Big Five, will give
the 'Cats plenty of competition. We predict success, only after a scrappy fight.

Also, if the college would add to the faculty a man fitted to teach public speaking and perhaps journalism, with
the understanding that he was to meet with each society to train and coach their members, we would once more
find the Eu and the Phi back on their feet and contributing to the interest and life of Davidson College.
— R. S.

COACH NEWTON ... Coach Newton and his assistants have put out one of the best teams in the State this
year. Yet they never have been given adequate credit for their part in developing the Wildcat team and spirit it
has today. The Saturday game proved they had a bag full of tricks. And the Navy contest: the air was
full of passes, many of which were completed. We nominate the coaching staff.

Campus Comments At last the Davidson College Athletic Association has seen fit to give free athletic tickets to graduates for
their first three years out of college. To be admitted free to the home games, a student must have made
a letter in two varsity sports or a letter in one sport for two years.

Three odd things about our football team: Out of the eleven men who started the last three games, seven of
them live within 25 miles of the College. One foreigner on the team by the name of Bailey Williams. Bailey
lives 60 miles from Davidson in Clinton, S. C.

This year, in accordance with regulations of the Graham Plan, applications were sent to football players playing in the Southern
Conference. The Davidson players sent in their applications at the first of college, but the applications were returned because the
officials in charge did not think there were enough jobs listed. Coach Newton suggested to the members of the football
team to make up a few jobs so the Conference officials would think we were on the level. Davidson will
not be bothered with the Graham Plan.

Every student of Davidson pays an athletic fee of ten dollars. This fee is divided among the various sports. Thus
each football man pays fifty cents for the privilege of playing or sitting on the bench.

DRESSING ... The Davidson students have been cautioned in the past about their dress when attending concerts, recitals, and other
meetings where guest orchestras, bands, and speakers are invited to play or speak. You do not realize how bad a
group of coatless students look until you see them from the speaker's platform.

BANDS ... Mr. Harper’s Band, composed of boys and girls from the age of nine to nineteen, demonstrated unusual ability
for a high school group at the Davidson-V. M. I. contest. The Davidson Band was excellent with our old favorite,
“Cheerio.”

Dancing on the Campus has been a question for some time. I have attended dances in Charlotte for three years
and they have been most enjoyable. The best behaved and nicest crowd of young people attend the Davidson dances than
any place I know. I would like to see dancing permitted in the Fraternity houses but other than that let’s
be satisfied until we get the new Social Center.

The Pan-Hellenic Council appreciates the co-operation shown by the fraternities during rushing season, and we ask the support of the
Student Body throughout the year in sponsoring the Davidson dances. ED ARMFIELD, President, Pan-Hellenic Council. P.S.—I request Dick Johnson, football
captain, to write Campus Comments for the next issue of The Davidsonian.

PUBLICITY ... The Davidson students sincerely appreciate the favorable publicity accorded the football team by newspapers in this section. Several
sport commentators are boosting our players for All-American placements, and we thank them.

THE DAVIDSONIAN CAMPUS This campus statue bears the inscription, “JOHN HARVARD, FOUNDER, 1638.” All of these statements are false. For
John Harvard did not found the college, it was founded in 1636, and it is not a statue of Harvard
because nobody knows what he looked like.

HALF OF WEEKS: CEI SWEEDING THE CAMPUS DYnNozy BROOM A I'm still nothing but a nothing, a nothing, a nothing,
A loving proboscis without a name. I don’t care. I'm just a column—not a person, and it's fun—rather.

Our tribute to Fred Smith, who, beside being one of the boys, is one swell Alumni Secretary and Publicity man.
His daily articles in the Charlotte Observer and other papers are making the public Davidson-conscious. What has happened to the
scoreboard? Our regrets for Teeny Lafferty’s injury. He's a great guy and a great back. Bobby (Glutton) Florence had five
girls at the game. Nose Hunter had an extra incentive Saturday—his Dotsy was a sponsor. Bob Kellogg’s red mustache was
shaved in chapel the other morning. Congratulations to the barbers. Roscoe Crabb better keep a stiff upper lip. “Herm the
Germ” Clark, “Heap” Quick, “Tarzan” Peabody, and “Pig in a Ditch” Johnston are naming their house on Frat Row the
Sigma Phi Nuthin. Will someone tell us how Bobby Arrowsmith got his name? Was Tricky Dave Sellars a Ted Husing
or a movie star at the polo games at the game Saturday? Lord Charlie, the Frosh—shucks I reckon. Butch Abernathy
has a new camera—the annual should be a photographic extravaganza. Kernel Euclid Phant is still caught with his pants down—he
can’t guess our identity. Look-alikes: Tyler Port and Edna May Oliver, Burry Branton and Spanky MacFarland.

Reverberations from the dance: Linwood (Dopey) Hammond a floor show within himself. Do you believe in repressing your impulses? Dopey
tangled in sax and singing to orchestra, “I'm just a song and a dance, you're a symphony.” Too many swing
numbers and not enough women, Yankee dancing replacing the shag—progress. Major Clark first on the floor, and with his woman—suh!
Cart Carlson had a new girl—may she and Davidson become better acquainted. J. C. Crowell’s Lib Gammop is the only
girl I've ever known who could wear a pompadour coiffure and still be lovely. The cello plucker kept time with
his chewing gum. Socrates Suggs walking around admiring the Distaff Side from an architectural standpoint. Big night for Sugg—he smoked
a cigarette. We asked some girl we were with whether she was the mental, the elemental, or the sentimental type
and she said, “Neither, I’m from Charlotte.” She wasn’t a pretty girl and she wasn’tA clever girl but she'd do
anything in the world for you. Elmore Holt leading pep meeting on the fourth floor of the hotel after the
dance. Bouncer of Tavern asking Howard Covington and his bosom buddy from Holy Cross to DANCE HANDKERCHIEF! Faculty "SNOOPING" CAUSED
THE "GREAT REBELLION OF 1823" WHICH RESULTED IN BEING EXPELLED. Students have the system. — Florida CAMERA

EARLY DAY MEALS CONSISTED OF: BREAKFAST - BREAD AND BEER. DINNER - LB MEAT, SUPPER - BREAD AND MILK. PORTER
HOUSE TAVERN, A FAVORITE WITH STUDENTS IN THE EARLY 1800'S, WAS FAMOUS FOR ITS DRINKS AND STEAKS - HENCE PORTERHOUSE
STEAKS! CRIMSON, THE SCHOOL COLOR, ORIGINATED FROM THE LARGE BAN-ROOM AND BOARD HAS INCREASED 30 FOLD AND TUITION IS 70
TIMES HIGHER THAN WHEN HARVARD WAS YOUNG!

Stolen Thunder By DAYMOND TURNER

QUITE....! We hope that freshmen have already discovered that Florida State College works on the honor system. The faculty have
the honor, the students have the system. — Flambeau.

SHORTS... A lot of people who are trying to get in the swim only end up in hot water... People
who carry glass bottles shouldn't sit on stone benches... A wise girl never blows her nose... Some flappers are like
a tree: they acquire a new ring every year... Then there was the guy who married on a fifty-fifty basis:
Half rye and half ginger ale.

A WORD TO THE WISE... There are a few of us who let a fool kiss us, while others of
us let a kiss fool us. I heard a woman say the other night that she thought girls were fools
to marry. We know that, but who else can we marry? — Technique.

FROM THE WISE... Don't worry if people disagree with you. You can't even walk down the street without meeting someone
coming the other way! And then, too, diplomacy has been defined as "the art of letting someone else have your
way."

ROLL CALL... A pathetic example is the sad case of the Colorado citizen who has for the past several years
been trying to refute the government's claim that he was "killed in action" during the World War. Apparently, the sovereign
will not acknowledge its right to be mistaken, although we do not know whether his "widow" has yet cashed in
on her war risk insurance. At last reports, the poor "corpse" had taken to staring into the mirror and mumbling
to himself.

PARDON ME!... Knock, knock. Who's there? Hugo. Hugo who? Hugo and write a column yourself, I'm tired!

Watson Street and femme doing a balcony scene. Walt Heilman's terrific tie finally purloined by Ray Pittman. We would mention
Pinky-Puss Mills getting snaked on by Sonny Moore but he crashed this column last time. "Head Man" Armfield, president of
Pan-Hell, counting ill-gotten lucre after the dance. "Little Lem" Kornegay and Brent Green rushing Caddie "Dancing Lady" Walker while Doug
Neal spectated. "Baby Face" Faison in rare good form. Most unusual name—Tinita Pearce, escorted by Jimmy Ballard. Phil Friburg snaking
on Sam Ryburn, whose girl draws cartoons as well as Friburg's. Chubby King has his orchestra again this year. Why
does Professor Thane McDonald play such weird compositions in chapel? Hal Kemp is playing for the V. M. I. homecoming,
October 30 and 31. Would it be possible to get him for our homecoming since he's in this vicinity? And
who are we going to have for Mid-Winters? Good night, muggs...

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 14, 1936

QUOTABLE QUOTES (By Associated Collegiate Press)

"I know of no way in which a semi-ready preparedness can be developed with less militarizing effect than when it
is mixed with all the forces of a curriculum on a university campus." The University of Rochester's Chancellor C. W.
Flint makes his defense of the R. O. T. C. system.

"No patriotic teacher should object to taking the oath of allegiance. It is an honor, not a reflection, upon her
character. It does not carry with it interference with the right of educators to determine the courses of study. Courses
of study will be safe in the hands of loyal teachers..." But the D. A. R.'s Mrs. William Becker forgets
that those who promote the oath also promote interference with studies.

SANDBURG PRESENTS (Continued from Page 1)

into the brakeman’s eye;" and "trains so fast they reached the station before the whistle sounded there." Quaint proverbs and
epigrams kept the audience chuckling for the next few minutes. Some of the more unique statements were these: "All I
know I hear: all I know I read in newspapers: all I know you can put in a thimble; all
I know I keep forgetting;" "He that makes himself an ass men will ride;" "When pups bark, old dogs go
on doing whatever they were doing." To close, Sandburg chanted a few folksongs to the accompaniment of his guitar, just
"to take the highbrow curse off the evening." In concluding, he said, "Your faces have been kind to me. I
thank you." Whatever may be said of Sandburg’s poetry, his own oral interpretation of it is a powerful argument in
its favor, it was the opinion of a large part of his audience Monday night.

"CHUBBY KING'S — (Continued from Page 1)

nights a week. Smooth dinner rhythms are featured, but there will be hot swing tunes on occasion. Neill Whitlock, whose
brother is associated with Hal Kemp, Inc., has tentative plans to take over the orchestra next summer and work with
the Kemp Chain, which includes now about twenty dance orchestras. Billy Crooks and Peter McKnight are worthy of mention as
prominent members of last year’s music-makers who will not be able to be with them this year. The personnel of
the orchestra follows: C. H. King, leader; Bill McIlwaine, piano; Neill Whitlock, drums; Bronston Kenney, accordion; H. L. Clark, first
saxophone; Walter Heilman, tenor sax; D. E. Newbold, third sax; E. W. Fisher, baritone sax; Dick Wright, trombone; Paul McGarity,
trumpet; and R. G. Rosser, violin.

PICTURES FOR THE (Continued from Page 1)

to snapshots and informal group pictures taken on the campus, although there will probably be none of the senior snapshots.

SENIOR GRADES (Continued from Page 1)

485; P. A. Howard, 2.468; W. C. Brown, 2.465; F. M. Mack, 2.373; J. G. Anderson, 2.370; W. A. Douglas,
2.366; J. P. G. Moffett, 2.333; F. H. McLean, 2.331; J. R. McClelland, 2.313; W. S. Frieze, 2.308; W. D.
Covington, 2.288; W. R. Bustle, 2.260; E. S. Finley, 2.235; J. C. Crowell, 2.235; T. D. Talmage, 2.230; G. L.
Smith, 2.213; J. W. Harper, 2.210; H. E. Parker, 2.186; T. B. Anderson, 2.175; W. S. Edwards, 2.090; J. A.
Andrews, 2.088; A. S. Allen, 2.075; C. M. Ramsaur, 2.070; B. T. Clark, 2.063; J. D. Johnston, 2.056; R. R.
Anders, 2.035; C. L. Crane, 2.035; M. E. Peabody, 2.023; R. King, 2.020; J. H. Erickson, 2.016; and J. O.
Branton, 2.010.

CELEBRATION IS (Continued from Page 1)

stand has made in Davidson's stadium. Homecoming will mark the beginning of celebrations for Davidson Centennial which is sure to
get off on the right foot with this array of events to herald it.

GOOD NIGHT... Now I lay me down to rest Before I take tomorrow's test. If I should die before I
wake, Thank gosh, I'd have no test to take. — Johnsonian.

Road id Fant

As Kernel writes this week's chore, the identity of our new columnist is still a mystery. For the benefit of
the freshmen (if any) who can read, it might be well to state here that Nozy Broom is not his
real name; in fact, you might even say it’s fictitious, or phony. Kernel has an inkling, however, and he passes
it on to you. He has very good reason to believe that the perpetrator of this column is (now don't
say Kernel told you) Walter Winchell. Therefore Kernel has put adhesive tape over his key-hole. Go thou and do likewise.

The one just past has been by far the biggest weekend this campus has seen since the last Bowery Brawl.
What a pep meeting! What a game! What a dance! What a headache!! But let’s take ‘em one at a
time:

What Kernel would like to know is, Why do they call it a shirt-tail parade? There were a good many
of the latter in evidence, but not many shirts. This business of grabbing belts instead is no doubt less destructive,
but what Kernel would like to do is hear some good healthy rips as the line rounds corners. One poor
freshman wore his own belt; now he’s using safety pins. Only an army belt can really take it. Kernel can
hardly wait until homecoming. As the parade winds around the fire the belts are likely to be in different hands.
What a tail that will make!

When the cheerleader got up to speak, the entire chapel audience was silent until he had finished.

The game next day was great, but Kernel was disappointed in one thing: he didn't learn how to pronounce the
name of this fellow Traqkgl, or whatever it is, who tried to pull the Cats whiskers for a while. Everybody
said it differently. Suggestion: Why doesn't the band play "The Man on the Flying Trapeze" while those stooges are leading
yells?

Now we come to the dance, just as everybody did come to it Saturday night. By great puffing and blowing,
the orchestra managed to do pretty well, but they really weren't needed. Every girl Kernel danced with, except one, sang
in his ear the whole time. The exception whistled.

Kernel is for an addition to the Pan-Hellenic rules that would prevent more than one girl from wearing a dress
of a certain color. It’s mighty embarrassing to dance with the wrong green dress. And that’s about the only way
to recognize these girls you meet at the rate of about ten per minute. But the girls can’t tell the
boys apart either, so what's the difference? Kernel just danced with 'em all, introduction or no introduction.

Something Kernel forgot to say is that he’s all for this idea of sponsors for the ball games. The student
body was warned at chapel Saturday against amusing itself by throwing pop bottles and kisses at these comely lasses, so
there was a good bit of restraint in the stands that afternoon. Still, we could all look, and that was
something. Kernel’s going to take some field glasses next time. Maybe he'll watch the game a little, too.

When Kernel gets to this part of the column each week, his brain runs as dry as a Davidson football
game, and those last ten lines just won't come out. Next week he can’t use this method to fill them
out. Don’t know what he'll do then. But it’s all done now, so he'll close the typewriter for a week.

If she isn’t offered a job and with it the opportunity to pass the final test, she has to be
content with saying: “Heck, I didn’t want the darn old thing anyhow.” Ja, so geht’s.
