THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 25, 1936

HONOR ROLL
Tom Marchant Picks Bill Boyd and John Tice as Stars of the Interfraternity Track Meet

SPORTS AFIELD
HONOR ROLL
Stewart Barnes Selects Bronston Kenney and Carlyle Lewis as Varsity Tennis Stars

DAVIDSON NINE OPEN SEASON
Varsity Sluggers Scheduled For Practice Games During Holidays

COACH LAIRD CONFIDENT
Candidates Offer Lively Competition in Infield

OFF TO FLORIDA!
Coach Laird is set to get off to a spring start with the baseball team. Fresh from a lop-sided win over Wofford, these racqueteers will leave Wednesday on an extended Southern tour. They are: left to right, Kenney, Barnett, Lewis, Frampton, Carlson, Manager Knox, and Bell.

Bronston Kenney, a sophomore, stepped into the ranks of orchid receivers by surviving four rounds of the spring tennis tournament and emerging as a star.

TRACKMEN TO MEET FURMAN
Varsity and Freshmen to Participate in Meet

The varsity track season opens this afternoon in a meet at Davidson College. Approximately forty athletes participated in the meet, with the varsity team competing against Catawba. The entries for the varsity run were as follows: 100 yards, Dick Faison, Lafferty, Parker; 220 yards, Faison, Harrison; 440 yards, Johnson, Parker; 880 yards, Johnson, Parker; one mile, Bell, Gilks, Kuykendall, and Pharr; two miles, Brown and Pharr.

For the field events, the following men were entered in the varsity section: high jump, Barrow, Wicker, and Lee; broad jump, Wicker, Lee, and McClelland; shot put, Warden, Johnson, and McClelland; discus, McClelland; javelin, Johnson and McClelland.

Freshmen team members included Ross, Snow, McClelland, and Maples. The varsity team ranked seventh among the fifteen best collegiate wrestlers in the nation. Leroy Lewis, Martin Barrow, and Harry Frampton, along with Manager Jim Knox, will compose the team this year. They are planning to leave Davidson early this week for their annual trip to Florida. Jake Morrow, a member of last year's team, has also planned to make the trip and will take over the No. 6 position as Bell intends to participate in Davidson's track meet with Furman, which will take place Wednesday at Davidson.

The varsity golf team will leave Thursday on its northern tour. Rain marked the close of the spring gridiron drills. The Davidson varsity golf team will play against Hampden-Sydney here on April 9, the University of North Carolina on April 10, and Wofford here on April 11. The Theta squad will have a date at left end, and the other positions will be filled by Nicholson, Dick Cathey, Bob McClellan, and Ned Ivy.

Coach Unger commented on Hodgin’s failure to enter as follows: “Hodgin lacks aggressiveness. He is consistent and steady enough but falls short in the type of rules used in this tournament. If collegiate tournaments were held, he would have a better chance.”

Assets of Temple University, Philadelphia, have risen $6,000,000 in ten years. Antiquated “band-box gymnasiums” are to blame for the mediocre performance of the team.He \ ue: 4; Theta tackled the iceman on the southern trip. Cltss was routed recently when a brand of basketball played in New England, says Al McCoy, coach of Northeastern University, Boston. Due to eligibility rules, it will necessitate some “doubling up” which will hamper chances for success. Anyway, the ‘Cats are out to see what's what. Leroy Blackwelder, on returning from his second trip in two years to Lehigh University for the national tournament, had an unusual story to tell about his trip. It seems that Leroy, although in a position for pinning his opponent, momentarily forgot that he was fighting under the Olympic rules (which are somewhat different from the collegiate way of wrestling) and not realizing the danger he was in, was pinned before he realized his error. However, he still vows that he can lick his opponent under collegiate rules. Leroy has taken on his last match as a representative of this school and is, without a doubt, one of the best ever witnessed at Davidson. This, incidentally, is “ye olde swan song,” finis, in the Sport Staccato business, and henceforth, Yates Faison, a lad from the “Queen City of the South,” will conduct this column. Luck to you, Yates!

In the second annual Southern Intercollegiate tournament to be held in Athens on April 23, 24, and 25, a match has been tentatively arranged with the University of Carolina to be played there on April 29, and a match has been definitely set with North Carolina University in Raleigh on May 1. The wrestling team will point toward that opening game with Duke next fall. The fall practice will begin September first with the spring report at the Southern University in Atlanta on April 22. 

AT YOUR OLD SUIT
See yourselves as others see you. Then come to our store for the latest fashions in University Clothing. Make Charlotte’s Newest Men’s Store your headquarters and meeting place while in Charlotte.

MARION DAVIS COMPANY
205 SOUTH TRYON STREET

S. P. E.’S WIN HONORS IN FRATERNITY MEET
NETMEN DOWN TERRIERS, 9-0
Kenney, Lewis, Barnett, Carlson, Bell, and Frampton Swamp Opponents

Davidson's 1936 tennis team opened its season in highly successful fashion Monday afternoon by sweeping their match with Wofford by a 9-0 score. All six singles matches were run off in decisive straight set style, the hardest match occurring in the No. 1 position, where J. H. Mitchell, ace of the Spartanburg team, extended Bronston Kenney to a deuce set before yielding, 8-6. The doubles matches were also all won in straight sets by the 'Cat netmen, but the No. 1 affair was a long-drawn-out deuce affair in which Kenney and Carlyle Lewis were hard put to eke out a 9-7, 10-8 victory over Mitchell and Bill Prince, former high school doubles champions of South Carolina. Captain Lewis, who played in the number two singles position by reason of his upset defeat at the hands of Kenney in the school tournament finals Saturday, showed he had not lost his touch as he trounced Prince, 6-0, 6-1. Other matches resulted as follows: Martin Barnett defeated Snyder, 6-3, 6-3; Carl Carlson defeated Ritter, 6-0, 6-3; Bill Bell defeated Garvin, 6-4, 6-2; Harry Frampton defeated Thompson, 6-3, 6-3. Barnett and Carlson defeated Snyder and Ritter, 6-0, 6-1. Frampton and Bell defeated Garvin and Thompson, 6-1, 6-0.

Eight men, the six who played in the Wofford meet and Jake Morrow and Jim Knox, manager, will make a nine-day tour starting Wednesday, playing in order, Presbyterian, Georgia Tech, Emory, Mercer, Florida, Rollins, and the University of South Carolina.

Newton Guides Tactics Of Freshman Batsmen
The freshman field was again the scene of activity Monday afternoon when twenty-two boys reported to Coach Newton to begin freshman baseball practice. Among those who have had former experience are Hand and Hicks, both outstanding members of the American Legion Junior team, winner of the Little World Series. Fred Stair of Knoxville, Tenn., is expected to make a strong bid for the position of pitcher. Others reporting were: Steere, Craver, Roberson, Campbell, Hemphill, White, Walker, Benfield, Deaton, Fowler, Carter, Pope, Johnson, Young, Kornegay, Chalk, McCall, and Connor. Coach Newton has scheduled games with the Carolina freshmen at Chapel Hill, and with the Asheville School for Boys at Asheville. These are the only games that will not be played here at Davidson.

A.B. DeGree is the name of a man from Williston, N. D.

Track Winners Tally 28 Points; Phi Gams Second and Pikas Third
TICE IS HIGH POINTER
Boyd Takes Field Events, Scoring 14 Points

Taking four out of twelve events, the Sigma Phi Epsilon team won the inter-fraternity track meet last Wednesday afternoon. The SPE’s led with 28 points, while the Phi Gams took second honors with 22. The Pikas scored 18 points, and the Betas, Phi Delts, and Kappa Sigs tallied 16 points. Boyd, Gregory, and Johnson all placed in two firsts. Johnny Tice, SPE, held high scoring honors in the meet with a total of 14½ points, taking the hundred-yard dash and the low hurdles, placing second in the broad jump, and running on the winning relay team. The hundred-yard dash was run in eleven seconds, with Tice finishing first, followed by Knorr, Sample, and Woodward. Sample, SPE, won the 220-yard dash in 25.7. Abbott, Beta, was second, and Branton and Vogler, Phi Gams, were third and fourth. Gregory, Phi Gam, won the 440-yard run in 56.5 and also the 660-yard run in 1:37. Knorr, Pika, placed second in the 440. Lutz, Kappa Sig, took third and Abbott, Beta, was fourth. Johnston, KA, Cleveland, Pika, and Hipp, Gam, followed Gregory in the 660-yard run. The 120-yard low hurdle event was taken by Tice, with Boyd, Phi Delt, second and McLaurin, Kappa Sig, third. The time on the race was fifteen seconds.

The field events went to the Phi Delts with Boyd scoring 14 of his team’s total of 16 points. Boyd won the broad jump with a twenty-foot one-inch leap. He also threw the discus 101 feet 3 inches to take that event. In the javelin throw, he placed fourth. Tice, Knorr, and Carlson, Kappa Sig, placed in the broad jump also, second, third, and fourth. Benfield, Beta, followed Boyd in the discus and won the shot. Miller and Reid, Phi Gams, also scored in the discus, and Miller placed second behind Benfield’s 41-foot 11-inch put with the shot. Hotlpin and Crisp, Pikas, took the other places in the shot event. Johnson, Kappa Alpha, won the high jump at 5 feet 2 inches. Durham and Arnold, Pikas, and Hipp, Kappa Sig, tied for second. Johnson tied with Mosely, Kappa Sig, in the javelin with 143 feet 7 inches. Steere, Beta, was third and Boyd took fourth. Johnson scored 11½ points in the meet for one of the highest totals. Harry Kuykendall, Kappa Sig, ran the three-mile run in 4:01.5 for a first. Smith, SPE, Fustehberger, Phi Delt, and Higgins, another Kappa Sig, followed him in crossing the finish. The half-mile relay was the climax of the afternoon as six teams competed. The SPE’s turned in a time of 1:46.2, while the Phi Gams finished second, Betas third, and Pikas fourth. The winning team (Continued on Page 6)

Ice-cold every day in the year
Thirst knows no season—and the most delicious answer to thirst is tingling, sparkling, ice-cold Coca-Cola. Around the corner from anywhere. Delicious and Refreshing