WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 21, 1936 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Five

PHOTOGRAPH CLUB RECEIVES NEW MATERIAL
Officers Abernethy and Squires Proud of New Enlarging Equipment
EASEL IS NOW WANTED
Lyons Lectures to Group On “Composition”

The Photographic Club is ready to start “shooting” in earnest now that the keys to the dark room have arrived, and equipment such as safe lights and an enlarging machine put in the room ready for use. John Abernethy and Graham Squires, the officers of the club, are rather proud of the new enlarging machine which has cost only about four dollars. When a new easel has been bought it will cost only nine dollars and it works as well as machines selling for thirty dollars. Squires has succeeded in “blowing up” negatives to twenty-two diameters and he believes he can go further still. An assessment of seventy-five cents is being made against those who use the darkroom. There are no members; anyone is welcome to attend meetings without cost. About seven dollars has so far been collected from the photographers. Not all of the twenty-five or so who come to hear Dr. Lyon's lectures are active picture takers.

A week ago Dr. Lyons addressed the club after drill in his classroom on lenses. He told how a very simple piece of glass will take pictures of a sort and then went on to explain the distortions of color and shape produced by a meniscus lens as found in cheap box cameras and how the more complicated and expensive rectilinear and anastigmat lenses will do away with chromatic and spherical distortion. He demonstrated how the “f” system of grading the speed of lenses is figured. A week from today at the same time and place he will talk on what is thought to be one of the most important phases of picture taking, composition. Composition is what makes a picture look right. The subject matter may be of the best and the mechanics of exposure, color filtering, and distance perfect, but if the composition is not pleasing the most untrained eye will not like it.

The club will buy a printing box and new oilcloth covering for the work table and safe lights. Users furnish their own chemicals, but there is space in the room for them to store their boxes so there will be no inconvenience. Keys may be secured from Squires in the Eagle’s Nest or from Abernethy in 23 Georgia by those who have paid their assessment and a 25 cent deposit on the key. Others who pay the fees can secure keys.

LIBRARY ADDS NEW FEATURES FOR '36
New Books’ Jackets to Be Posted on Second Floor Bulletin Board

Among other changes in the library this fall is the custom of posting the jackets of new books on the second floor bulletin board. This is located opposite the stairs. These jackets are attractive, and give the students an idea of what is in the book. As soon as a new board is available, this display is to be moved downstairs. A box has been placed in the front hall, and students who wish to make suggestions are invited to put them in writing and leave them in the box. Mr. Davidson, the new librarian, is anxious to have copies of the old college humor magazines, no copies of which were placed in the library in the past. Any who know of available copies of back numbers should communicate with Mr. Davidson. A list of the ten best magazine articles for each month is also posted on the bulletin board in the front hall.

Receptions Held By “Y” For Groups of Freshmen At Campus
Informal Hours Conducted Each Week For Freshmen And Advisers
COMPLETE ORIENTATION
Boggs and McClure Are In Charge of Work

As one of the last phases of the orientation period for freshmen, the Y. M. C. A. has, for the last several weeks, been inviting groups of freshmen, along with their faculty and student advisers, to meet at the Social Center for an informal “get acquainted” hour. About thirty freshmen are invited each time, and for every fifteen freshmen there is one faculty member, serving as adviser. Also, a member of the “Y” cabinet is assigned to each fifteen boys, as student adviser. The purpose of the socials is to give the boys a chance to meet the faculty and their wives, and vice versa. This work is being conducted by Wade Boggs, who is in charge of Work on the Y. M. C. A. cabinet, and “Mac” McClure, General Secretary of the “Y.” The first of these meetings was held on Tuesday night, September 29th. One has been held every Tuesday since that time and thus far, approximately one hundred and twenty-five freshmen have been invited. In about two or three weeks more the work will have been completed. Besides informal conversation, there are usually several talks, humorous and otherwise, which are given. Mac McClure has one that, in the words of Boggs, “has become as necessary a part on the program as the refreshments that are served toward the close.”

DAVIDSON HI DOWNS CHERRYVILLE ELEVEN
Scrappy Opponents Bow Before Powerful Davidson Squad, 28-0

A scrappy Cherryville team was no match for a much heavier Davidson High squad, and bowed out after a game fight, 28-0. Captain Bumgarner of the invaders was the outstanding man on the field on both offense and defense. He was ably assisted by Wright, Wehunt, and Black. Fidler kicked off well for Davidson, but otherwise there was no outstanding player. After a scoreless first period, the Davidson team hit its stride and pushed over two scores in the second period and one each in the last two. Withers drove over for the initial touchdown climaxing a long march; Gibson went over for the point. Keener took a bullet pass from Wood to race 40 yards to the promised land in the prettiest play of the game and the second six points; Wood went over for the point. In the third period Wood went over from the five yard line; Gibson made the point. After Cherryville had made two successful goal line stands, Wood intercepted a Cherryville pass and raced down the sidelines for the last six pointer; McConnell went over for the last point. Beedle, scrappy little 80-pound center for Davidson, suffered a twisted ankle after playing a nice game. Davidson faces a strong and heavy Mooresville High team this week, and Coach Gracey announces work is to be in order for the remainder of the week.

SERVICE Is Our Motto
If We Don’t Have It We'll Order It
White Drug Store
Social Center CollegeMusic Dept. Announces Concerts | Home | The Music Department of Davidson College, under the direction of J. C. Pfohl, has recently announced the second and third concerts, which have been scheduled.

Day in the Davidson Con- BAND TO PLAY SWING CAROLINA GRID CLASH Centennial Activities; Many SPEAKER AT LUNCHEON | Sponsors to Be Presented; Second Dance to Be Held IC FOR DAVIDSON coming Day to Begin Bands to Play Davidson College’s flashy 70 “Y” Secures Speaker For Annual Services The fall and spring services of the Y. M. C. A. usually bring to Davidson the best preachers of the year. That was true last year with Peter Marshall and it is expected to be true again on FOR BIG MOMENTS — A Light Smoke! 5 — exciting of smoking. throat and smoke Lucky! Wedding bell times, with lots Consider your reach for a Night reach for a Copyright 1936, The American Tobacco Company = OF RICH, cert Series. piece band will make the Davidson Homecoming something to talk about around Wildcat circles for some time to come. They will give the fans at the Davidson North Carolina game a half-hour of swing Music from 2 o'clock until game time Saturday, November 7.

Davidson's annual Homecoming Day will be celebrated with many added attractions this year with the date, November 7, serving as the unofficial beginning of Davidson’s Centennial activities. In addition to the regular program which is carried on at Homecoming each year, this year’s schedule calls for novel stunts by Davidson's crack band, the presentation of many beautiful young ladies to act as sponsors, music by more than a dozen college and high school bands, and various other features calculated to warm the hearts of returning alumni, pouring in from all parts of the country to renew old friendships. An outstanding speaker will address the alumni Saturday at noon at a luncheon scheduled for 12:30 P. M., after which the meeting will adjourn for the Davidson-Carolina football game to be played at 2:30 P. M.

Freshmen Classes Assemble in Algebra, German, Physics and Spanish Coaching classes in several freshman courses have kept the lights burning in Chambers building nightly for the past few weeks. The mathematics class meets every night in room 144 at 7:30 with Mr. Adams as instructor. The class for the freshman German sections of Professor Beaty and Vowles meets on Monday and Friday at 7:30 in room 102, with Monroe Wicker as instructor. Physics class is also a class in Spanish, one for Professor Blythe and one for Professor Fleagle.

Placement Bureau Begins Work Securing Positions For Seniors and Alumni Get Better Jobs For Davidson Men STARTED BY F. SMITH Many Positions The Davidson College Placement Bureau has just been organized. The object of the bureau is to help unemployed or dissatisfied Davidson men with new and better jobs. It is no secret that Davidson men are preferred by many businesses, both individual and corporate, large and small. Their academic training, plus the Davidson tradition of fairness, alertness, and good sportsmanship, make the Davidson man desirable wherever there is some position of importance to be filled. (Continued on Page 6)

TOBACCO — College Organizes Bureau to DAN | Davidson Men Successful in This plain toe, double-sole blucher is what gentlemen are wearing to tramp through wintry storms. In the new Gambola grain, a soft, supple vegetable-tanned leather. are made of the center leaves of the TO BE ENT OF Sigma Delta Pi Organizes; Mrs. Seifert, Turner, Cooke Officers PROFESSORS ADVISERS New Members Will Be Selected, Bid Soon

When Thrilling Events Lead To Constant Smoking! When you're excited... nervous... happy and thrilled, you smoke many cigarettes without thinking about it. Make your choice a light smoke. Smoke Luckies—for Luckies are a light smoke of rich, ripe-bodied tobacco. They are made of the finest tobaccos that money can buy. And they are the only cigarette in which you'll find the all-important throat protection of the “Toasting” process. Yes, the only cigarette. Lucky Strike... the fine-tasting cigarette... the cigarette that “lives happily ever-after” with your throat.

* * “SWEEPSTAKES” FLASH! * * 17 Winners in Alaska and Honolulu! Eleven men and women in far off Honolulu and six way up north in Alaska know their popular music so well that they have been able to name the top ranking songs in Your Lucky Strike “Sweepstakes” 4-2-3 —just like that. Congratulations... and good luck to the many other far-away “Sweepstakes” fans. Have you entered yet? Have you won your delicious Lucky Strikes? There's music on the air. Tune in “Your Hit Parade” — Wednesday and Saturday evenings. Listen, judge and compare the tunes—then try Your Lucky Strike “Sweepstakes.” And if you're not already smoking Luckies, buy a pack today and try them. Maybe you've been missing something. “IT’S TOASTED”