President Convenes With Ministers’ Insurance Firm
Hears Reports of Firm and Speaks to Art Street Presbyterian Church

MEETS IN PHILADELPHIA
Speaks on “Why I Believe in The Deity of Christ”

On last Tuesday, Dr. W. L. Lingle, president of the college, went to Philadelphia, Pa. where he attended the annual meeting of the Corporators of the Ministers’ Firm. At the meeting, Dr. Lingle heard the annual report of the president and the reports of the directors of the firm. Those attending the meeting also elected fifteen directors for the coming year and attended to other routine business. This firm is the oldest life insurance company in the United States for ministers. There are about fifty of the corporators in all parts of the country.

On Tuesday evening, Dr. Lingle delivered the annual address on the Macartney Foundation at the Art Street Presbyterian Church in Philadelphia on “Why I Believe in the Deity of Jesus Christ.” The lecture will be published by the foundation for circulation among the members of the Art Street Presbyterian Church and among others whose names may be on the list kept by the foundation. Heretofore, the lectures have been delivered by men from the Princeton Theological Seminary, the Chicago Theological Seminary, and other institutions in the north. This is the first time that a lecturer has been chosen from the southern states.

Two Dine at Nassau Club
Dr. W. L. Lingle and Mr. F. L. Jackson Are Guests of Princeton Professors

On Wednesday night, January 28th, Dr. W. L. Lingle, president of the college, and Mr. F. L. Jackson, treasurer, took dinner in the Nassau Club at Princeton University. They attended the club as guests of ten Princeton professors who are connected with the Princeton School of Public and International Relations. At the dinner and at a conference afterwards, a study was made of the methods and objectives of the School of Public and International Relations with a view of discovering if any of those methods and objectives used in Princeton might be introduced at Davidson College. The Dean of the Graduate School was also present, and the conference thus took a wider range as to methods used in various other departments of the university. Later in the evening, Dr. Lingle held a conference with the Secretary of the Alumni and also the Secretary of the University. The purpose of the conference was to discover the kind of organization used by the Princeton Alumni in developing the remarkable college and university spirit that exists among the members of the alumni.

Davidson Pastor To Preach At Vespers
Dr. H. M. Moffet, pastor of the Davidson Presbyterian Church, will be the speaker for the Sunday evening service February 9. Before coming to the pastorate at Davidson, Dr. Moffet was pastor of the Charles Town, West Virginia, Church and later pastor of a Birmingham, Alabama, Church. Prior to that, he had graduated from Union Theological Seminary, Richmond, Virginia.

Gwynn’s Class Studies Court Sociology
Students Observe Juvenile and Domestic Relations Courts

Dr. P. Y. Gwynn, professor of sociology, and his class of approximately twenty members journeyed to Charlotte, Thursday, January 30, to observe the functions of the Juvenile Court and the Court of Domestic Relations. Social problems involving courts are being studied the second semester, and by attending actual cases, the students are able to become more familiar with this typical problem of the social order. Visitors are not allowed to attend these courts, but by special permission, the sociology class was allowed to hear several cases. The procedure of the Juvenile Court is quite informal because dealings are with children between the ages of ten and sixteen years. Following the adjournment of the court, Judge Redd talked to the class on its various functions.

Social Group Hold Banquet
Black Keys Honor Initiates At Casino Supper

The Black Keys, a prominent social club at Davidson, held a banquet Saturday night in Charlotte at the Town Casino. Among the twenty members present with their dates were several alumni, including Bill Atwater, Charles Harris, Wimpy Ravenel, and Bill Walser. The fine floor show offered by the Town Casino, and the many entertaining and amusing acts presented by several visiting alumni caused this midnight banquet to be one of the most successful in the history of the Black Keys. The new members, who were honored, included Phillip Arrowsmith, George Mathis, Wade Barrow, and Jack Branch. The Black Keys have also made plans for another party in the spring during the next set of dances.

Snow Blanket Greets Dances
Luckless Freshmen Are Snowballed From All Sides

A heavy blanket of snow arrived at Davidson last Wednesday night, January 29, as an uninvited guest for the Pan-Hellenic Council’s set of Mid-winter dances. “Cokey” Branton, president of the Pan-Hellenic Council, was seen wandering about the campus, mumbling to himself and apparently trying to find some way to pay Freddie Martin for ten hours’ worth of dance music. The whole thing looked mighty bad for the Council members, but Herb Willis was seen guarding an apparently precious box of money on Saturday night and carrying a smile of contentment and satisfaction. The entire student body seemed to be in a playful mood, and Thursday turned out to be a nightmare for the luckless freshmen who drew unexpected volleys of snowballs from all sides when they ventured out from the safety of their dormitories. Then several groups turned to making snowmen, the most imposing of which was the statue of some distinguished gentleman erected by Bill Quick and Maurice Peabody.

PRINTING FOR EVERY PURPOSE
BUSINESS SOCIAL RULING BINDING ENGRAVING
STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
117 Garland Court Phone 93-5727
Representatives Lamont Brown - R. P. Morrow

THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 5, 1936

Among the GREEKS
Following the Saturday night dance, a supper was held at the Hotel Charlotte. Among the visitors for the weekend were Billy Atwater and Latner McClintock.

PI KAPPA ALPHA—Saturday evening the chapter sponsored a banquet at the Hotel Charlotte, with fifty-one guests present. Brothers here for the weekend included “Crisco” Smallridge, Charles Hamrick, Dune Johnson, Blanton Little, Charlie Harris, Bruce Peabody, and pledge Henry Davis. Newton Warmon, a brother from the Nu Chapter at the University of South Carolina was also present. “Crisco” Smallridge has been elected president of the Charleston, West Virginia Alumni Chapter.

KAPPA ALPHA—A banquet was held at the Hotel Charlotte Saturday, following the tea dance. Among the alumni present were Bill Bowman, Jim Batte, and Bill Walser.

PI KAPPA PHI—A banquet was held at the S. & W. Cafeteria with about sixty members and friends in attendance. Brother Bill Stuckey, of the University of South Carolina, came up for the weekend.

SIGMA ALPHA EPSILON—Following the tea dance on Saturday, a banquet was held at the Town Casino. Brothers Matthews and Cely, of Gastonia and Greenville respectively, visited the chapter for the weekend. Other guests included Brothers Reid Bahnson, Scott Shepherd, Fred Bahnson, Jack Tate, and David Allen, all of the University of North Carolina.

KAPPA SIGMA—Officers for the coming semester were elected at the last meeting and are as follows: W. K. Pierce, G. M., Mal Grimes, G. M. C., and Al Stephens, G. P. These new officers will be installed at the regular meeting Thursday night. The chapter sponsored a banquet in the ballroom of Hotel Charlotte during the weekend. Among the guests present were Dr. and Mrs. McKay, Dr. and Mrs. Hamilton, Mr. and Mrs. Harry Whitner, and Billy Ravenel. This being leap year, the girls made the speeches.

PI GAMMA DELTA—Tyler Port and Harold Sage were toastmasters at a banquet held Saturday afternoon preceding the tea dance in the banquet hall of Hotel Selwyn. Among the alumni present were Brothers Ed Holt, '35, Sam Preston, '33, and Chip Monroe, '33. The visitors were given histrionic entertainment.

PI DELTA THETA—The chapter sponsored its annual banquet at the S. & W. Cafeteria. Several alumni were present, including Duke Glasgow, Paul Arrowood, and R. T. LeGrand.

SIGMA PHI EPSILON—Tom Mullen, of Roanoke Rapids, North Carolina, was pledged Monday night. An informal banquet was held at Efird’s prior to the Saturday night dance. Mrs. Heilman, of Greeneville, Tenn., visited her son, Walt Heilman, over the weekend.

Theiling Named Rifleman Head
Purnell, Pharr, Cleveland To Fill Other Offices

R. H. Theiling has been appointed captain of the rifle team for the coming year, according to a recent announcement by Major Cochran. Other officers who have been appointed are: vice-captain, Treadwell Purnell; co-managers, W. S. Pharr and G. B. Cleveland. So far, fifty freshmen have signified their desire to be candidates for the rifle team. The list is still open and anyone who has not yet signed up is urged to report to Major Cochran at once. Major Cochran requests that each member of the team try to find time to shoot some each day. This applies especially to those freshmen who are just joining. The freshman class has for the last month been studying rifle marksmanship in the regular class work, and much native talent has been developed.

“Y” SENDS DEPUTATIONS
Y.M.C.A. deputations this week were: Warren Gaw and John Abernethy who went to the Davidson Colored Church, giving the Sunday School lesson and the Bible talk, respectively; and John Brown and Frank Brown, going to the Charlotte Y.M.C.A., leading the services for the older and younger boys respectively.

LIBRARY ADDS FOUR VOLUMES OF BIOGRAPHY TO COLLECTION
Two Biographies By Belloc And Macaulay on Milton, The Poet, Head List
FIVE OTHERS INCLUDED
New Books Cover Philosophy, Religion and Science

During the past week, the library has added to its collection four very striking biographies along with five other noteworthy volumes. The other books covered a wide variety of subjects including a dictionary, one of H. G. Wells’ futuristic novels, a philosophical, a religious, and a scientific book. Two of the newly acquired biographies are: “Milton,” by Hilaire Belloc, in which Mr. Belloc, who has written biographies of other prominent men in widely separated fields, gives us the man Milton as well as the poet Milton, and “Milton,” by Rose Macaulay. This is a remarkable lifelike portrait of the great Restoration poet who was arrested.For his political opinions: who married three wives in search of the perfect helpmate, and who would call his daughter at four in the morning to dictate his poetry. “Albert of Belgium, Defender of Right,” is by Emile Cammaerts. This full, complete, and authorized story of the late monarch of Belgium, written by one of his loving subjects, a poet and critic of distinction, is a delightfully intimate study of the King's character, tastes, and habits. “Beaumarchais, Adventurer in The Century of Women,” is by Paul Frischauer. Beaumarchais typified the man of the world in eighteenth-century France. Frischauer’s biography is a rapid, fluent story of a man who lived in the world of romance, a man who devoted his life to worldly success and achieved immortality almost by accident. “Things To Come,” by H. G. Wells. This book suits the words Prof. and earlier work of Mr. Wells, “The Shape of Things to Come,” taken up by any course at Davidson Sunday, led by Dr. Latourette.

Lyons Speaks to Pre-Meds
Davidson Medical Fraternity In Hopes of Joining National Group
New Officers Named By Eu
Treadway Purnell Is Elected President of Eumenean Literary Society

Dr. S. C. Lyons, professor of biology at Davidson, will continue a series of addresses on the subject of Embryology before the members of Pi Delta Alpha, local pre-medical fraternity, at their regular meeting Wednesday, February 4. Dr. Lyons began this series at the previous meeting, the subject being selected by the members because it is not.

Treadway Purnell was elected president of the Eumenean Literary Society to succeed Joe Dees for the remainder of the school term at their regular meeting on January 28. Rob Stewart was elected vice-president, Fitzhugh Dade secretary, and Paul Harlan, reviewer. John Moseley applied for admission into the society and was admitted on the strength of his humorous dissertation, “The Difference Between a Duck.” The extremely cold weather drove the members into the Shearer music room to hold their meeting. Hot chocolate and cakes were served as refreshments. The inaugural meeting was held in the usual place on Tuesday, at which time the newly installed officers presided for the first time. John Allen spoke on “The Effect of Ibsen on Present Day Dramatists” and Ed Finley on “Embarrassing Moments.”

Plans are underway in Pi Delta Alpha to petition the national pre-medical fraternity, Alpha Epsilon Delta, for membership in that group. The national headquarters of this fraternity extended an invitation to Pi Delta Alpha in which they suggested that the local pre-meds should petition them. “Therefore,” said Gordon Smith, president of the Davidson group, “the petition is a mere formality and acceptance of it is almost certain.”

Youth Theme At Gathering
The Student Volunteer Movement of North Carolina will hold a conference in Salisbury, beginning February 7. The theme of this conference will be “Christian Youth, Where Now?” Several distinguished speakers will be present, including missionaries from Japan and Brazil and Dr. K. S. Latourette, of Yale. This conference will be open to all college students in the state. Those whose interests are in the field of mission work are especially invited to attend. This conference will be interracial and interdenominational.

Big Snake Is Frat Mascot
Constrictor Has Electric Heated Box as Home
By Associated Collegiate Press

Ithaca, N.Y. (ACP) — Snakes have been seen in fraternity houses before this, but Josephine, a young imperial boa constrictor now doubling as a pet and scientific guinea pig for a Cornell fraternity man, is real. Non-poisonous, (a young to hug, after the fashion of her kind, but plenty old to bite), Josephine was a gift from Dr. Harry Eno of Colon, Panama, to Frank Trevor, a senior from Syracuse, New York. Boas thrive in a temperature of around eighty degrees, and Trevor kept his quarters at tropical temperature. He solved the problem by building a snake box with an electrical thermostat. Pening soothes Josephine, but left alone she hunts for activity. As a substitute, she climbs whatever furniture she can find. Once she was lost for two days. Trevor found her asleep in a waste paper box. When Trevor graduates, he plans to take Josephine to Camp Woodland, a Boy Scout organization, where he is nature director and where he already has a snake house with 300 specimens.

The meetings will begin on the evening of February 14, registration being at 2:00 o'clock that afternoon. The conference will end with the morning worship service, where Dr. Latourette will speak on the topic, “Christian Missions and the Day That is Dawning.” The registration fee, which includes a ticket to the banquet, will be $1.50.

John German Group Meets
Delta Phi Alpha, honorary German fraternity, held its first meeting of the new year Monday night in Chambers building. The principal feature of the meeting was the presentation of stereopticon slides of five European countries shown by Dr. G. R. Vowles.

Five Men Initiated Into Military Order
Scabbard and Blade, national honorary military fraternity, initiated five men last Wednesday night. Those who were initiated were First Lieutenants W. L. Brown, T. E. Downie, R. L. C. Sours, and A. W. R. Tabers, and Second Lieutenant T. T. Purnell. The initiation was held in the dome room of Chambers at seven o'clock. Another initiation will be held in the spring, when some juniors will be taken in to carry on the organization next year. Brown is a member of Alpha Epsilon, social fraternity, of Omicron Delta Kappa, International Relations Club, and is editor-in-chief of “The Davidsonian.” Downie is a member of Kappa Alpha, International Relations Club, and is editor of “The Yow!” Sours is a member of Kappa Sigma. Tabers is a Phi Gam, and varsity track man. Purnell is judge of the Court of Control, a Kappa Sig, and a member of Omicron Delta Kappa.

All Good

“Chemical Amusements and Experiments” is by Charles R. Gibson. This volume offers for those who are not versed in the technicalities of the chemist’s art some of the simple, amusing, and entertaining phenomena which occur in the field of the elements, compounds, and solutions.

FOR THAT GRAND AND GLORIOUS FEELING
“For That Grand and Glorious Feeling” On Sale at P. Lorillard Co., Inc.

No matter what type of underwear you prefer, you’ll find it made with quality and service built into every Hanes garment, sold at popular prices.

College Is Spawning Future Monopolists
Speculation Wild in Real Estate; Construction Reaches Peak, Falls
BULLS, BEARS RUN RIOT
Business Cycles Bring Rapid Booms and Slumps

“I’ll give you fifteen hundred dollars for Pennsylvania Avenue, if you’ll throw in the B. and O. Railroad. Take it or leave it.”

“What’re you trying to do, break me? I’m holding out for two thousand, and not a penny less.”

Such high financial dealings have been filling the minds of Monopoly enthusiasts on the campus and elsewhere for several weeks, as booms and crashes follow each other in rapidly turning business cycles. The above conversation took place in the Rho Dammit Rho house several days ago, as A. D. Novice attempted to get into the economic whirl. All of it, naturally enough, went entirely over his head. Grimly, Novice threw the dice in his turn, sensing as he did it that his eclipse was nigh. Right he was, for he lit on The Boardwalk, where some monopoly holder, financial giant that he was, had placed four valuable houses, the rent for which must be paid. As Novice had nothing more to mortgage or sell, he was declared bankrupt, and became a none-too-interested looker-on. The wild speculation of a moment ago had brought on a panic, it seemed, and soon hotels went by the board at half their initial cost, that being The Bank's idea of a fair exchange. Soon all but two of the capitalists who had started from par were wiped out—ruined. The other two, rugged individualists both, fought tooth and nail, now being justly imprisoned, now less justly winning a beauty prize from Community Chest. At length, luck took a hand, and the game drew to a close. Results: six broke, one a millionaire. Some call that a game; others call it life.

Canadian Scientists Form Strange Pact
By Associated Collegiate Press

Toronto, Ont. (ACP) — Even more grim than the famous Civil War Veterans’ “Last Man” Club, members of which met annually to drink a toast to their dead comrades, until but one was left, has been organized by a group of Canadian scientists. In the distant future, a medical paper will be published by an old scientist in which he will give the cause of the death of twenty-nine of his colleagues. Dr. C. H. Best, Professor of Physiology in the University of Toronto, revealed the strange pact in the course of a recent speech. Thirty research workers in the School of Hygiene have an annual physical examination. They examine each other and from each other they draw a sample of blood which is chemically analyzed.