BOGGS AND DORSETT ARE CHOSEN TO LEAD TWO RISING UPPER CLASSES

ALENDA Lux UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

The Davidsonian

POSITION AS SECRETARY OF ALUMNI ASSOCIATION

GRIER MARTIN RESIGNS

VOL. XXIII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., APRIL 8, 1936 NUMBER 22

CLASSES SELECT NEXT

DORSETT SELECTED AS PRESIDENT FOR JUNIORS OF 1936-37

Jim Dorsett Wins Over Billy Crooks in Final Ballot Of Class

HOLT VICE-PRESIDENT

Hill and Vowles in Final Vote For Secretary

Jim Dorsett of the rising junior class was elected president of that group for the coming year at the final ballot of the class elections held in chapel, Monday morning, April 6th. The vice-president of the class will be Elmore Holt; while the office of secretary-treasurer has not been decided on. Due to the proximity of the number of votes cast for Dick Vowles and Haywood Hill, there will be another vote between these two men.

Jim Dorsett and Billy Battle Crooks survived the list of eight nominees to enter the final ballot. These eight nominees were: Wade Barrow, Bill Crooks, “Sky” Cline, Yates Faison, Bill Kiesewetter, Torrey McLean, and Bailey Williams. Elmore Holt defeated Gilbert Palmer and Lawrence Reid in the final voting. Monroe Wicker dropped from the list in the second ballot of the secretary-treasurer vote, leaving Haywood Hill and Dick Vowles in the running.

These class elections began with nominations by a nominating committee and were supplemented by additional nominations from the floor. The voting started at the chapel period on Saturday.

Dorsett, a student from Salisbury, is a sophomore manager of football, a member of the Student Council, and of Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity. He was also on the Dance Committee and a member of the freshman debating team. Holt, a student from Greensboro, is gymnastic champion for the current year, a member of the business staff of the annual, and a member of Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity.

ONLY GRADUATES TO CELEBRATE APRIL 9

Many Alumni Chapters Will Meet on Founder’s Day

The ninety-ninth anniversary of the founding of Davidson College will be celebrated by alumni chapters throughout the country on April 9. Contrary to the custom of the past two years, Founders’ Day will not be observed on the campus, due to the spring services being held at the same time. However, various members of the Davidson faculty will address the alumni chapters and a general letter from Hugh Query, president of the Alumni Association, will be read. This will deal with commencement plans and association work.

Dr. Kenneth J. Foreman will address the Atlanta alumni, of whom Harlee Branch is the president. The Greensboro alumni chapter, headed by J. A. Cannon, will hear Dr. C. K. Brown. Accompanying Dr. Brown will be the quartet, Paul Pittman, and possibly Flake Laird. In Gastonia, Coach Newton will speak and show the football movies which were taken last fall. D. R. LaFar is president of the Gastonia alumni. In Greenville, S.C., Gene McEver is scheduled to speak. Capt. Norton Pritchett, who is now at the University of Virginia, will address the Charlottesville alumni, of which Rev. Dwight Chalmers is the head. Several other recent Davidson men may also speak. The Philadelphia alumni will observe Founders’ Day a week later, on April 15. Football and campus movies will be shown at that meeting.

Resigns Position

GRIER MARTIN

MARTIN ANNOUNCES HIS RESIGNATION AS ALUMNI SECRETARY

Grier Accepts Managerial Position With Atlanta, Ga. Firm

ACCOMPLISHES MUCH

Arranged Broadcasts, Edited Alumni Journal

Grier Martin, Alumni Secretary at Davidson College since the summer of 1933, has tendered his resignation from that position. He reached this decision early this week. Mr. Martin plans to leave Davidson next week, to assume a position as manager of the Stoker Coal Company of Atlanta. His decision followed a trip made to Atlanta in response to a call from the Atlanta concern. He will keep in touch with the alumni office here for the remainder of the year, and will return a week before the beginning of the commencement program to assist in the carrying through of that program.

Martin graduated from Davidson in the spring of 1932. While in college here, he was a member of Omicron Delta Kappa, Editor in Chief of The Davidsonian, a member of Scabbard and Blade, a member of the Honorary Fraternity, the Court of Control, and the Student Council, in addition to many other activities. Since assuming his duties here, Martin has been, besides Alumni Secretary, publicity director of the college. He also coached freshman basketball for one year. As Alumni Secretary, he has originated and written the Alumni Journal, which has been in existence for three years. He has steadily collected alumni dues in excess of what they were before he assumed his duties; last year these dues amounted to twice what they were his first year here, and this year they are even more. He has made all technical arrangements for the band broadcasts which have been on the air for (Continued on Page 6)

Registration Begins

All members of the present freshman, sophomore, and junior classes, in accordance with faculty regulations, will be required to register for their courses for next year during the week of April 13-18. A tentative schedule of recitations for 1936-37 will be published this week in the room adjoining the registrar’s office.

CARL PRITCHETT LEADS SPRING SERVICE HERE

Reverend Joe Overmeyer of West Virginia Assists With Singing

SERIES BEGINS TUESDAY

Pritchett Is Former Student Of Davidson

Carl Pritchett and Joe Overmeyer have been leading a series of religious services on the campus, today and yesterday, April 7 and 8. Mr. Pritchett has spoken on the topics, “The Chief End of Life,” “The Devil’s Martyrs,” and “The Meaning of the Cross of History.” Mr. Overmeyer has been leading the music for the service. On Tuesday morning at the chapel hour, 10 o'clock, Mr. Pritchett spoke on “The Chief End of Life.”

“If we are to live well, we must determine for ourselves the chief end of life. If we have settled that question, we have likewise selected the things of chief importance. Life will have a goal and all our energy can be dedicated to its accomplishment,” were Mr. Pritchett’s introductory words in his morning address “The Chief End of Life.” The chief end of life refers, said the speaker, to seeking the kingdom of God, not so much to the choice of a life work, although the two ought to be in harmony. The Kingdom of God to Jesus meant the rule of the will of God in the lives of the people. To seek first the kingdom of God means obedience to his will. Jesus never swerved from doing the will of God. The crisis of the religious life is that time we make a choice between our will and that of God. The turning point in John R. Mott’s life was when he heard the words, “Seekest thou great things for thyself; seek them not. Seek ye first the kingdom of God.” The chief end of life, in the second place, is the development of Christlike character. We are gradually learning in these days the importance and necessity of character. We have educated the mind more than the heart and are reaping the result. We have not given education too great a place in our lives but we have not given character the proper attention. Character was invincible because it was Christlike. No one can succeed in developing a Christlike character (Continued on Page 6)

Debating Trio Finishes Tour

(Continued on Page 6)

Salango, Stewart, and Mauze Meet Maryland, Richmond, Swarthmore

The tour had scheduled debates with Maryland, Swarthmore, and Richmond, but due to the floods, the debate with Pittsburgh (near Westminster) had to be canceled. Salango and Stewart composed the team making this trip, with Mauze as alternate. The debate with Swarthmore was on March 25, and was given over station WPEN of Philadelphia. No decision was rendered. The Swarthmore team was very well prepared, and as Swarthmore takes an active interest in debating, the contest was very good. The University of Maryland was debated on the 26th. This was a non-decision debate, but the team declined to accept an audience decision. The Maryland team gave the stiffest competition of all. The University of Richmond was debated on the first of April. The opponents were good, and showed keen minds. One, especially, showed himself skillful at asking questions. (Continued on Page 6)

FRESH RUN OF PRIMARIES FOR CLASS OFFICE

Abbott, McClellan, Rice, Stair, Tice Survive First Primary

THIRTEEN ELIMINATED

Branton Supervises Nominations Held on Friday

Following the regular chapel hour on Monday morning the Freshmen ran off the first primary of their annual class elections, eliminating thirteen men from the race. Nominations were rendered the preceding Friday for the various class offices for the rising sophomore class: eight for president, eight for vice-president, and six running for the three offices of secretary-treasurer. Of the original eight candidates nominated for president, five remained in the race until the second primary held on Tuesday. These five polled votes as follows: Tom Abbott, 21 votes; Bob McClellan, 27; Sherwood Rice, 25; andlo 21 Whose remaining three in the race for the vice-presidency were: Bill Boyd, 24; Sam Hemphill, Ray Bittman, 23; and Perry Sloan, 33. Those left in the ring for the office of secretary-treasurer were Clete Brewer, netting 42 votes; Addison Long, 26; and Locke White, 32. All of the balloting has been under the able leadership of Coke Brant. 

SERIOUS OPERATION

The condition of Dr. D. H. Howard, Associate Professor of Chemistry and Mathematics, is reported serious as this goes to press, Monday night. Dr. Howard underwent an operation for mastoiditis on April 6, and attending surgeons feared that a second operation would be necessary last night. A number of possible blood donors were classified Monday evening in case a transfusion should be needed. The Davidson instructor developed sinus trouble about the middle of last month, but it was thought that he would recover by spring holidays. His classes have been distributed among the other members of their respective departments.

Annual Editor Ballot Begun
Eight Men Eligible to Head “Quips and Cranks” For Next Year

Balloting was begun for the editor of “Quips and Cranks” at the chapel hour yesterday morning. Eight names appeared on the ballot prepared by Martin Barnett, editor of the annual this year. The men eligible for election were: John Abernethy, Billy Higgins, Ken Knorr, Charlie Mauze, Bob Thompson, and Jimmy Graham Squires, Stewart, and Tommie Westall. Each of these men served in some editorial capacity in the preparation of the 1936 edition of the yearbook, as follows: Abernethy, snapshots editor; Higgins, activities editor; Knorr, class editor; Mauze, photographic editor. (Continued on Page 6)

YEAR'S OFFICERS
BOGGS ELECTED TO LEAD CLASS OF ’39; DEFEATS FIVE MEN

PAN-HELLENIC SIGNS DUKE AMBASSADORS FOR SPRING DANCES
Colorful Frolic to Be Closed By Bowery Ball on Saturday

CONCERT BAND MAKES LONGEST PLAYING TOUR EVER TRIED BY GROUP
Ten-Day Trip Covers Four States; Two Concerts Per Day Given
PAPERS LAUD PLAYERS
Receptions Given For Boys at Several Stops

The Davidson College band and quartet returned last Wednesday, April 1, from the longest trip ever taken by a musical organization of this college. The trip included North Carolina and South Carolina, Georgia, and Tennessee, and an average of two concerts each day. Leaving Davidson at 4 P.M. on Monday, March 23, the first stop was Gastonia, where they played (and sang) at the high school. That night was in the high school cafeteria, the Woman's Club of Gastonia. They were put up in homes of various members. The next concert was given at Fountain Inn high school on Tuesday, after which they journeyed to Gaffney, S.C., and played for the Women’s Music Club. That night they arrived in Greenville, S.C., and played an evening concert. This one was also under the auspices of the Woman's Club. Noon of the following day, Wednesday, found them at Piedmont College, Demorest, S.C., and by nightfall, they had crossed the line. (Continued on Page 6)

Coach Shepard Visits Campus
Newly Elected Director of Athletics and Wife Make Social Call

April 8th, Mr. and Mrs. N. W. Shepard arrived in Davidson after a drive from Randolph-Macon College in Ashland, Va., to their new quarters in the Davidson College community. On Wednesday at 8:30, a reception was held in their honor. Coach Shepard will spend the next few days at the college. His reason for such a visit is the fact that he is director of athletics at Randolph-Macon and has duties to perform there. While in Davidson, Shepard expects to call on all professors of the college, to become more intimately acquainted with the other athletic heads of the school with whom he will work next year, and to learn more of the Davidson College campus. He will also probably make arrangements for getting a house, as he plans to take up his residence here sometime in the latter part of the summer. It is Coach Shepard's second visit to the college. His first one was of a strictly business nature. At present, Shepard is director of athletics at Randolph-Macon College. He was selected by the administration in February to fill the same post at Davidson which is now vacant, since Captain Norton Pritchett left this position here last year to go to the University of Virginia. Coach Shepard is an alumnus of Davidson and a graduate of the University of North Carolina. He has made an excellent coaching record at Randolph-Macon College.

MILITARY BALL FRIDAY
Branton to Lead Scabbard and Blade Figure

The Pan-Hellenic Council has just completed arrangements to bring the music of Joe Burke and his thirteen-piece Duke Ambassadors orchestra to the Charlotte Armory on the weekend of April 24-25 to supply the music for the annual Bowery Ball set of dances. The set will begin on Friday night, when a Military ball will be held. The junior and senior officers of the R.O.T.C. department will attend the function in full uniform, and others in the customary formal dress. The figure will be conducted by members of Scabbard and Blade, national honorary military fraternity. Coke Branton, president of the Pan-Hellenic Council, is also the president of the Davidson chapter of the fraternity. Favors appropriate to the occasion will be presented to the ladies by the fraternity. The Chi dance will last until 2 o'clock. The Bowery Ball, a distinctively informal dance held only once during the year, will be held on Saturday night from 9 until 12 o'clock. In the past, this dance has been one of the most colorful and enjoyable events of the year. Joe Burke and his orchestra have previously had an engagement under Hal Kemp's management, of Seth Low College, Columbia University. The orchestra was organized to fight a contract with the Cat and Fiddle Club in New York City.

Gifts Given Coaches
At the close of the basketball season, members of the Davidson varsity squad presented Coach Laird with a brown toilet kit. At the same time, the freshmen squad presented Coach Thurston with a blue and silver model cigarette lighter.

Thurston Is Vice-President; Covington Made Secretary-Treasurer
THREE BALLOTS TAKEN
Patterson Is Retiring President of Class

Wade Boggs was elected president of the Centennial Class in final ballot class elections which were held at the chapel hour Monday morning, April 6. Tom Thurston and Howard Covington were elected vice-president and secretary-treasurer respectively. Boggs was chosen from a list of nominees which included Carl Carlson, Joe Hunter, Hal Overton, and Wen Scott. On the second ballot, there only remained two other candidates in the running, Carlson and Hunter. In the final ballot, Boggs defeated Hunter for the presidency. Thurston defeated Tom Corbin, Ken Knorr, and R. R. Purdy for the vice-presidential office. Howard Covington defeated Tilman Clark, L. C. Crowell, Tom Thompson, and Bob Stewart to be elected secretary-treasurer of the Centennials. Nominations were made at the regular chapel period Thursday morning. All of the nominations were made from the floor. The voting began Friday morning and ended Monday. Boggs is from Shreveport, La. He is a member of the International Relations Club, Alpha Phi Epsilon, Student Council, Y.M.C.A., and the forensic council. He is also president of the debating team. He is also president of the Y.M.C.A. next year and a member of the track squad. Thurston is from Rock Hill, S.C. He is a member of the Red and Black Masquers, assistant editor of the annual, and was awarded a freshman track. He is a member of Delta Sigma Phi social fraternity.

CABINET SENDS FIVE TO CLEMSON Y.M.C.A.
Aid Charlotte “Y” in “Come Clean” Campaign Among Schools There

The Davidson Y.M.C.A. Cabinet sent five men to Clemson College last week to aid in the “Come Clean” campaign. The men who went were: Frank Brown, Bill Manson, Bill Kiesewetter, and two others. They attended two services on the campus, one of them being a regular program, and they met with the Clemson Y Cabinet in one of its regular meetings. Another feature of the campaign was the distribution of cards in the city and county schools. The meeting was conducted by Davidson students, and Frank Brown, Bill Manson, and Bill Kiesewetter addressed several groups. Brown spoke at some of the city schools on Monday, March 16. Faison spoke to groups in several schools on Monday and Tuesday, March 23 and 24. Five students were sent out to complete the campaign. Cards are distributed asking boys to abstain from tobacco, profanity, gambling, dirty stories, stealing, drinking, cheating, and other similar bad habits. The boys sign the cards if they agree. (Continued on Page 6)