Page Six THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 14, 1936

CARL SANDBURG | BASKETBALL PRACTICE DUKE, FURMAN McGILL PARKS AND SEATS VESPERS ARE LED

The service was concluded by Mrs. E. F. Shewmake who has been visiting her relatives in Stanton, Va., returned home
last week. He expects me to conform to his ideas of what he thinks is good verse. Benjamin Franklin, much
adverse criticism to his writings and ideas, invited his critics to a dinner, placing before them a plain gruel—no milk.
Each one was bidden to eat. He finally, smiling, said, "I can live on this; I must keep on writing
what I think regardless of whether I have an audience at a lecture or not."

Using Peter as an example, Mr. Gibson continued by showing the audience that we are invited to follow Jesus to
become fishers of men. He explained later that a good many of the players did not show up. The work
of Walt Dixon, Charlie Dave Sellars, and Bob Anders in the line, have shown up exceedingly well. The Seniors have
a powerful team, but they seem unable to hit their stride. They have not been able to do anything with
all of their tremendous manpower.

The Thelemite Club held an afternoon meeting last Thursday at the home of Mrs. W. W. Wood. There were fourteen
members present. Mr. and Mrs. T. L. Price of Lewisburg, West Virginia, have been visiting the Woods since last Monday.
Mr. Price is the brother of Mrs. W. W. Wood.

The first half, the Tar Heels rallied to clear the way for Art Ditt to score touchdowns in each of
the last two quarters. Andy Bershak played a bang-up game at end, smearing Maryland plays all over the field. The
Terps presented a good defense but they were able to make only one first down.

The next game for the Freshmen will be against the Sophomores, all having been part of a strong frosh quintet
last year. Playing their first conference game of the year, the Furman Hurricane swept Citadel for two touchdowns in the
third quarter. Furman displayed superiority in every department, especially in the smooth offensive plays.

The Seniors seemed to have had bad luck. They showed up with a strong team against the Freshmen in their
first game, but their second game with the Sophomores, explained later that a good many of the players did not
show up. The work of Walt Dixon, and Charlie Dave Sellars and Bob Anders in the line, have shown up
exceedingly well. The Seniors have a powerful team, but they seem unable to hit their stride. They have not been
able to do anything with all of their tremendous manpower.

Mr. Gibson continued by showing the audience that we are invited to follow Jesus to become fishers of men. He
explained later that a good many of the players did not show up. The work of Walt Dixon, Charlie Dave
Sellars, and Bob Anders in the line, have shown up exceedingly well. The Seniors have a powerful team, but they
seem unable to hit their stride. They have not been able to do anything with all of their tremendous manpower.

Brother Higgins spent the evening showing the audience that we are invited to follow Jesus to become fishers of men.
He explained later that a good many of the players did not show up. The work of Walt Dixon, Charlie
Dave Sellars, and Bob Anders in the line, have shown up exceedingly well. The Seniors have a powerful team, but
they seem unable to hit their stride. They have not been able to do anything with all of their tremendous
manpower.

Pi Kappa Phi—The Seniors seemed to have had bad luck. They showed up with a strong team against the Freshmen
in their first game, but their second game with the Sophomores, explained later that a good many of the players
did not show up. The work of Walt Dixon, and Charlie Dave Sellars and Bob Anders in the line, have
shown up exceedingly well. The Seniors have a powerful team, but they seem unable to hit their stride. They have
not been able to do anything with all of their tremendous manpower.attained its powerful attack and expect to get going
through resolution and reslippers! They follow every movement of your foot. Perfect freedom—with live support that a new way of
making shoes, though they are made with leather treated for flexibility. The game and had supper with the REXALL STREAMLINED
Series. The Freshmen were slow to get started in their first game with the Seniors. However, they showed up pretty
well towards the end and promise to give their opponents plenty of trouble. Captain Marion says his charges are set
for a win next time.

Following the sermon, the quartette sang two more numbers, “On Yon Dark Mount of Olives” and “Now Are Mine Eyes
Grown Dim,” both by Haydn.

FLEXIBLE SHOES
Styled in the spirit of CROSBY SQUARE AUTHENTIC FASHIONS

This engine is pulling the train on its 29,000-mile journey without re-
filling. The Queen and Ivey entertained Harry at his home in Rock Hill, S.C., and Peters went to Boston, Mass.,
making a few stops in the east. On the first leg of its trip, the train visited every state west
of the Mississippi River, running up a mileage of more than 14,000 miles. The final 15,000-mile stage will take the
train into Canada, ending in late November at Atlanta, Georgia.

Phi Gamma Delta—
The feed was held Sunday with Dr. and Mrs. Cumming, Mr. and Mrs. Trent, Richard Trent, and Mrs. Mason of
Roanoke, Va., also visited the chapter during the week. Brothers Corbin and Hunter spent Sunday at home in Charlotte. Brother
Howie went to Monroe.

Phi Delta Theta—
The Intramural football tournament has been hard-fought. At present, the Juniors and the Sophomores are tied for the lead with
one win each. Led by their ball-hawking quarterback, the Kittens' forward wall, including Carroll and Miller, promises to give their
opponents plenty of trouble. Captain Marion says his charges are set for a win next time.

CAT NIPS (Continued from Page 4)
Tech is fresh from smothering Kentucky; Duke thumped Clemson. The two teams are undefeated thus far in their season. Tech
has racked up plenty of tallies in their few games, while the foxy Wallace Wade has been content to thump
his opponents soundly but not run up large scores. The Jackets still have to play Southern California late in December,
while Pitt is looking westward to travel too! Ed Armfield, by his three scores Saturday, jumped into the Conference scoring
lead. Charlie Sears ranks high with his eighteen points, while Davidson ranks fifth in team standing. Look for the Citadel
game!

Sigma Phi Epsilon—
William Rader was initiated into the chapter on Thursday night. Kunz of Chattanooga, Doty, and Hiram Moore went to Cornelius.
Lyon visited at Queens, and Pledge went to Citadel.

STRONG SOCCER TEAM (Continued from Page 4)
Johnny Brown, Cothran, J. H. Gailey, Graham Squires, Bob Wilson, and “Bones” Wood have experience from last year and with
other new men, a strong team should be developed.

CHEMICAL FRATERNITY (Continued from Page 3)
Patton stated that regular weekly sessions will be supplemented by two or three open meetings during the year. Bradley has
announced the standing for graduate work in the field of chemistry, including organic, analytical, and physical chemistry. In any case,
a good knowledge of mathematics is necessary.

M. H. GOODRUM & CO.
Electrical Appliances, Hardware, Radios, Dry-Goods, Groceries
By the 5 & 10c Store

SOUTHERN 5 & 10c Store
We Invite Constructive Criticism

RENT A CAR
M. P. Henderson
GULF GAS & OIL

Read any statement about Chesterfield cigarettes. We tell you what they are made of—mild, ripe tobaccos. We tell you that
we use pure cigarette paper on Chesterfield. We tell you that Chesterfields are carefully manufactured. We suggest that you try
Chesterfields and find out how mild they are and what a pleasing taste and aroma they have. A great many
cigarette smokers will tell you that Chesterfields satisfy—give them what they want in a cigarette.

Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.
© 1936, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.
