WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 25, 1936 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Three DAVIDSON OFF THE by HAROLD SUGG (This rather mist used to call
a to s columns to appear later as “Rather Young Thoughts on Matters Politi Ed ©) 1806 and 1936; Jefferson
And Roosevelt, There is a tendency for historical gullibles and hard up for material to draw comparisons to dead, or
there also a allowing Youth its folly, and it is with that flimsy defense that we proceed to columnists a
parallel. But truism aching is lly, delineate certain striking parallel in the government and politics of Jefferson's day and those
of the past four This should somewhat unusual when we recall the recent encomiums on Jefferson- years, prove jan Democracy
poured on some 23 million duckbacks of the American electorate. And it may us to view future red-flag waving with
cause a bit more sanity than has been three years characteristic. The parallel is this: Both Jefferson and Roosevelt made
startling innovations in the government; both were objects of a malignant hate by an upper class; both were called radical,
liar and anti-God, and both were overwhelmingly vindicated in their elections. We may pause to note that the personal hate
of Jefferson continued through his second administration. From this parallel we may draw several interesting similarities. The Liberty League of
1804 Not the least interesting is that noisome clique of Federalist die-hards, the Essex Junto—Fisher Ames, Timothy Pickering, Gouverneur Morris,
et al—which poured upon Thomas Jefferson such vials of vilification and contempt as are hardly equalled by modern ingenuity. More
interesting is Hamilton’s proposal for the organization of a Christian Constitutional Society to (1) support the Christian Religion and (2)
The Constitution of the United States, with (a) the use of all lawful means of promoting the election of fit
men and (b) the promoting of institutions of a charitable and useful nature. Hamilton’s familiar notation that “It is essential
to be able to disseminate gratis useful publications” has a ring that echoes in our mail box. John Bayard deprecated
this plan as being unnecessarily obvious and it was afterwards dropped, indicating that Federalistic politicians were at least smarter in
those days. The outcry against Jefferson, remarkably enough, came from the respectable and intelligentsia. George Cabot saw “Robespierres and Marats”
as the result of Jefferson's experiment, and an impassioned Dwight of Yale warned, “Tremble then in case of Mr. Jefferson’s
election, all ye holders of public funds, for your ruin is at hand.” President Dwight of Yale blurbed upon “Shall
our sons become the disciples of Voltaire and the dragoons of Marat; or our daughters the concubines of the Illuminati?
The administration is in the hands of fools and blockheads!” This hate generated by the upper-class, dominating the press, was
so widespread that to remove his discredit in Europe was a principal factor in Jefferson’s decision to run for re-election.
And before the election, Federalist George Troup despairingly wrote Rufus King that very familiar lament, “Go where you will, you
behold nothing but smiling faces and prosperity.” The temptation to draw a parallel between the Essex Junto and The Liberty
League is too great for a credulous youth. Too tempting also is the sight of bitter, disappointed Fisher Ames, writing
from his farmhouse near Dedham, and Alfred Smith, sulking in the empty floors of the Empire State: symbols of the
eras. But there is ser- (Continued on Page 6) STUDENTS ANXIOUSLY LOOKING FORWARD TO MID-WINTER'S DANCES Freddy Martin, Shep Fields,
Benny Goodman and Hal Kemp Being Discussed The current question running through the average socially minded Davidson student’s mind is
“who's playing for the Pan-Hellenic Mid-Winters?” There are those who bow down and then get up and swing to “Let's
Dance,” Benny Goodman's “stomping” theme song. The exponents of the “jig,” among whom are notably Bobby Peters, Buddy Branton, Chubby
King, Pete McKnight, Dick Vewles and Pinkey Stowe, are talking up Goodman's smooth swing and Helen Ward, Benny's vivacious (yes
suh!!) torch singer. Then on the other end of the line there are those lovers of the rather quiet, soothingly
sleepy music of Wayne King, Eddie Duchin, or Richard Himber, or perhaps Jack Denny. Among the supporters of the “sleepy
music” are: Carl Carlson, Owen Breeden, Cooke, Tom Crowell, Boggs, Fitz Wade, Hugh Dade, and others. Going back to the
“swing music” which seems to be the fad at the present time, other artists in this line which have been
the topic for more than one bull session are: Tommy Dorsey, Fletcher Henderson, Glenn Gray and George Hall. Those who
like a happy medium of hot music with a mixture of smooth music would prefer an encore with Freddy Martin,
who incidentally now has a new addition to the band, a songstress. Then Shep Fields and his “Rippling Rhythm” cannot
be overlooked. Henry King’s unusual band with the silver-lined tone is very much in demand. This type of music is
most desired by those “bird-in-the-cage” performers, Bobby Peters and then well, gets second mention, Port could do his special petunia
dance for the folks. Tyler and Billy Crooks would be at home too. Finally, in all seriousness, the most discussed
and the bands which seem most in demand are: Freddy Martin, (encore), Kay Kyser, Shep Fields, Benny Goodman, Hal Kemp
and Russ Morgan. OVER HUNDRED GET CHECKS FROM N.Y.A. Approximately 125 Davidson men are listed on the monthly payroll of
the NYA, which functions here as one of the outstanding organizations helping students to meet college expenses. One hundred of
these men receive their pay from the National Youth Administration itself, while about 25 others are working for salaries which
are accounted for by relief allotments made to the drought area. The monthly payroll at Davidson totals something over $1,100,
paid to the men according to the number of hours which they work. The smallest pay check may be as
low as one dollar while some are as high as $20. Professor Fleagle heads a committee of four other faculty
members in charge of the work assignments and other phases of the work here. Professor Fleagle has sponsored the NYA
since it was established here in 1933, making out the payroll and giving much of his time to the project
which is proving highly successful. Among the positions offered to men seeking NYA work are assistantships, monitorships, study hall teachers
at Davidson High School, work on tennis courts and golf course, and coaching class teachers. The NYA is conducted by
the national government as a part of the New Deal and allotments are made to all states to aid in
providing college educations. Allotments are made to individual schools according to the size of the student body. Davidson’s allotment amounts
to something about $10,000. ATTEND COUNCIL MEETING 37 ANNUAL FEATURES NOVEL ART WORK AND BETTER PHOTOGRAPHS Quips and Cranks’ Circulation
To Be Greater Than in Past Years CENTENNIAL IS THEME Only Eight Students Without Annual Pictures A TRADITION OF DAVIDSON
MEN JOHNSTON’S BARBER SHOP FOUR OUT OF FIVE COME HERE Pictured above are Ed Armfield, Carl Carlson and George Norfleet,
who will leave Thursday evening for New York City, to attend the meeting of the National Fraternity Council.Line continued: of
the college. According to Abernethy, the artwork PLAN MUSIC CAMP. Around Town | GERMAN SOCIETIES. Charlotte Engraving Company will be
URTIFTER. The Chamber edition will also have a wider circulation than any of the preceding editions. TOMORROW, NOV. 23, the
University of North Carolina. All of the student pictures and faculty pictures have been taken, and an entirely new set
of retakes was made last week. Professor J. C. Pfohl, Director of Music, is planning a reunion of the School-Camp
Band here on Thanksgiving. This band was organized at the Music Camp held on the campus last summer. The band
will play during the Davidson-Wake Forest game. Professor Pfohl is a member of the honorary fraternity of Delta Phi Alpha.
The retakes may be seen at Abernethy. Abernethy also announced that prints ordered from last week will be here. The
first set of proofs will be here next week. Every member of the faculty and student body is expected to
hand in their pictures. Senior photos will be printed in a manner similar to previous years. The band will rehearse
at 11:00 o'clock Thursday night. After the rehearsal, the band members will see some films taken at the camp this
summer. Mr. Harper, Pete White, Morelane, and Bernie will be among those who will attend. It was an open meeting.
Professor Pfohl had been asked to speak to the boys about his experiences in Germany. Mrs. E. A. Beaty gave
a lecture on the literature of the German Test. Mrs. J. V. Lore entertained. Scripts 'n Pranks To Appear On
Dec. 15th. According to Editor Hal Overton, the Secretary applies for a church in Texas. Dr. Frank C. Brown, pastor
of the First Presbyterian Church, recently visited Davidson College. He was born in York. Mr. MacClure was absent for about
ten days. He spoke to the congregation about his previous work. Mr. MacClure stated that his work with the younger
set will be beneficial.

A Real Turkey Dinner For Thanksgiving at Davidson Theatre. LITTLE PEP. Wed. Nov. 25 WITHOUT ORDERS. EAT HERE DURING THE
FOLLOWING SHORT LEAVES. Grapewin and Virlon Haworth. Thurs.-Fri. Nov. 26-27. REUNION with the Dionne Quintuplets and Jean Hersholt, Rochelle Hudson,
Helen Vinson. "Where Everyone’s Your Friend." Sat. Nov. 28. RHYTHM ON THE RANGE with Bing Crosby’s singing and a new
comedienne, Martha Raye. Mon.-Tues. Nov. 30-Dec. 1. GO WEST YOUNG MAN starring Mae West with Warren William, Randolph Scott.

BAN ON BRINGS NOTICE FOR DAVIDSON. Other Colleges Follow Example in Sobering Football Crowds. OTHER FIRSTS HERE, TOO. First College-Constructed
X-Ray Made Here. Davidson is attracting much attention. This is the first college in which a college has adopted a
policy to stop at three. Recently, the University of South Carolina has started this. There are many other facts that
make Davidson a pioneer. The first X-ray ever made at a college was made here. This is the second X-ray
made. Several national honorary fraternities were founded here. The fraternity court here was the first to turn a fraternity into
a court.

You Always Save at Belk Brothers! BELK’S COATS ARE * WARM * SMART * MODERATELY PRICED! $19.50. HALF or FULL-BELTED
MODELS! The kind of topcoats that appeal to fashion-conscious men. Tailored from fine quality fleece materials in plain colors or
smart checks. Raglan or set-in sleeves! Belk Bros. Co. Charlotte, N. C. MEN’S CLOTHING STREET FLOOR.
