THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 6, 1936

EXPERTS TALK
(Continued from Page 1)

appearance, that he must command the respect of his parishioners and be able to receive their confidences and give them
advice. He must by all means know people. He then pointed out some of the difficulties and hardships of a
minister’s life, and gave some hints concerning preparation for the ministry. He also gave his views on ministers staying in
one location too long a time.

Business
Dave Ovens, general manager of Ivey's in Charlotte and president of the Charlotte, North Carolina, and the Retail Merchant’s Associations,
gave the lecture and led the discussion on Business as a Vocation. Mr. Ovens laid stress on persistent effort as
the secret to success. This consists in doing one’s best and not being “yellow.” He pointed out that moral character
is a big asset in business, and that all the big business men of his acquaintance are distinguished for their
high moral standards, culture, and refinement. He also said that the college man is seldom well prepared for business and
should enter with the expectation of beginning humbly.

Medicine
Wednesday night's lecture and discussion was conducted by Dr. Thomas D. Sparrow, a prominent Charlotte surgeon. “Medicine offers a living
wage if you're willing to work hard, but the days of the big fees are over,” Dr. Sparrow explained. He
then showed some of the things medicine offers a man, such as prestige, an opportunity to search for truth, and
understanding of humanity, and a wonderful opportunity for service. He then discussed the demands that medicine makes upon a man.
The first is service, slavery to the profession. Second is unselfishness and honesty, willingness to work oneself out of a
job. Another thing, medicine demands “physical and mental self-sacrifice.” Finally, medicine demands that a man use all his faculties, especially
common sense.

Journalism
Mr. Cameron Shipp, a prominent member of the editorial staff of The Charlotte News, conducted the meeting on Journalism. Mr.
Shipp emphasized the fact that Journalism is a prosaic profession like any other, and not highly romantic as it has
been represented to be. There is a greater opportunity than ever for new, young men, with training and college experience.
He suggested topics to be studied in college such as foreign language, history, economics, law, current events, and English. “Take
any English course that makes you write,” was his advice. He discussed the various types of jobs and how to
get into different kinds of work, as well as which are most pleasant. His attitude towards schools of journalism was
not very favorable. The meeting was followed by a lively discussion.

Law
Mr. W. B. McGuire, an attorney with the Duke Power Company, well-known in this state, conducted the last of the
series of Vocational Guidance programs. He emphasized that the most important thing in Law is personal integrity. He suggested that
the college man study especially English, Economics, and Political Science, and complete four years of college work before beginning his
Law work. Latin, he said, is of little use in the legal profession. He discussed different branches of law, the
requisites of a good lawyer, and law and public opinion.

University of Kentucky girls say they'd rather be amused by “the comic type.” Down with the tall, dark handsome male.

A collection of 4,000 phonograph records assembled by the late Senator Cutting of New Mexico has been presented to Swarthmore
College.

Dr. James A. Naismith, 74-year-old inventor of basketball, played the game only twice in his life.

SYRACUSE STUDENTS
(Continued from Page 3)

tion, and the ticking of the alarm clock, rushed the package to a pail of water. Postal inspectors opened it
in due time, were at first convinced it was genuine. The soaked cotton had the same appearance as gun-cotton, they
said. The university did not concern itself with the sad plight of the twenty-five pranksters when G-men had rounded them
up and hustled them into cells at the city jail. “The matter is in the hands of the authorities,” said
Vice Chancellor William P. Graham.

AMONG THE GREEKS
(Continued from Page 3)

Hutaff to his home in Fayetteville for the weekend. Banks Gladden spent the weekend at his home, Chester, S. C.
Tom Downie could be found down Rock Hill way last Saturday and Sunday. The usual Sunday night feed was given
this week by the fraternity. Next weekend is to find the brothers celebrating at Roaring Gap on their Spring House
Party.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon
The May Dances at Sweet Briar attracted the Brothers Billy Wilson, Ed Armfield, Bob Florence, and Perry Sloan from the
campus. Henry Mills, Buddy Newton, and Henry Eve accompanied Tom Marchant to his home in Greenville, S. C. George Matthis
and Bill Mickley ran up to Danville, Va., to pass the time. Brothers Lamont Brown and Dick Johnson visited Brother
Matthews in Gastonia. The fraternity brothers enjoyed the usual feed Sunday night. The brothers are looking forward to an entertaining
weekend on May 9 when they hold their annual Dinner Dance at the Charlotte Country Club.

Kappa Sigma
At its regular meeting last Thursday night the fraternity pledged Locke White, Jr., of Montgomery, W. Va., of the class
of 1936. Bob Lindsey and Hank Loftin went to Winston-Salem. Harry Frampton was in Hartsville, S.C. (Coker College). Saturday night
found Prosser Morrow and Johnny Pearce in Statesville. “Skinny” Stevens spent the weekend at Maxton. Charlie Thompson and Mal Grimes
were away presumably in Spartanburg, S. C. The Popes Frolics will be held the weekend of May 16. There will
be a banquet in the Chambers Banquet Hall followed by an excursion to the river. Kappa Sig plans for a
“big one.”

Pi Kappa Phi
Visiting the fraternity this weekend were: Mr. and Mrs. David Bowles, Misses Elizabeth and Mildred Bowles of Fayetteville; Miss Sara
DuRant of Southern Pines; Miss Frances Ehrhardt of Pinehurst; and Mr. Carlos Batkin of Aberdeen. Also visiting this weekend was
Mr. George Jethone of Raeford. The brothers literally flocked away to scatter all over the two states. Mitchell Arrowsmith went
to Florence, S. C.; Mac Covington to Greensboro and Albemarle; Bobbie Burgess and Jim Hill to Myrtle Beach, S. C.;
Sam Hill to Marion; Bobbie Gish and Bill Deye to Bluefield, W. Va.; KY to Greensboro; Tom Corbin to Wilmington;
Mills Taylor visited the Duke chapter of the fraternity; Joe Hunter and Herb Willis visited the alumni chapter at Greenville,
S. C.; Dick Howie to Monroe; Ken Lawson to Chapel Hill; Joe Kellum to Biscoe; Harry Parker and Fred Renfrew
to Sumter; and Dick Towill to Batesburg, S. C. A formal dance will be held in Charlotte, Saturday, May 16.
For further details see Salty Peters.

Phi Gamma Delta
Hal Sugg, Arthur Cooke, Bob Stewart, and Hal Overton all joined the Davidson contingent in Greensboro this weekend. The May
dances at Mary Baldwin (Staunton, Va.), attracted Gene Vogler and Ernie Dooley and it is said Ernie was King of
the May. Russell Patterson and Bill Taber were nosing around Chapel Hill way over the weekend. Henry Baker and Nesbitt
Elmore whiled away their time in Spartanburg, S. C. The fraternity calendar has the Spring House Party scheduled at Roaring
Gap the weekend of May 16. The brothers say the omens all prophesy a lively time.Brother Arthur R. Priest, executive
secretary of the fraternity, and Mrs. Priest were guests of N.C. Gamma Friday and Saturday. Brother Pete McKnight went to
his home in Shelby for the weekend, where on Sunday night the brothers all joined in on a little tom
feasting as is the custom.

Saturday, May 9, the fraternity will leave Club on a lake a few miles outside Statesville and there will be
their spring House Party. A bevy of “belles femmes” is expected to be in attendance.

Sigma Phi Epsilon, Brothers Wiley Bradley, Jeff Moore, Daymond Turner, and Walker Harper traveled to Lynchburg, Va., to be present
at the burial of Dr. David H. Howard and express the grief and condolences of the fraternity. In recognition of
the death of their brother member, the fraternity is wearing mourning.

Jim Morton, president, and Jeff Moore, comptroller, went to Raleigh to the Regional Fraternity Conference for the training of officers.
Hiram White went to Rock Hill, S.C. Wiley Bradley was in the mountains for a few days. The spring House
Party will be held the weekend of May 16th and the brothers are eagerly awaiting the event.

POPULAR QUESTION (Continued from Page 3)
That committing a wrong to someone who has himself committed a wrong does not in any way aid or correct
the wrongdoer. Hence killing a man who has taken another’s life is nothing more than legal murder. As the judges
were unable to reach a decision, the debate was called a tie. After the program, the society enjoyed a feed
consisting of cakes and punch.

STUDENT GOVERNMENT (Continued from Page 3)
“Lack of student problems has made these offices impracticable.” No substitute body will be appointed, it was indicated. This is
an important move, and some hold that it foreshadows a general abolition of student government by American colleges as a
whole.

WILDCATS WIN (Continued from Page 4)
Davidson and nicked for two runs, one a homer by Bolton, Concord backstop. In the next three frames, McIver gave
up two more. Laird pitched the eighth and was scored on four times.

Charlotte Hornets 11—Davidson 6
The varsity baseball team lost a free-hitting game to the Charlotte Hornets by an 11-6 score at Robbie's Field, Monday,
May 4. Pitchers for Davidson were Laird, McIver, and Yearwood. Laird pitched the first four innings and allowed the Hornets
eight hits. McIver was the Wildcat twirler for the next four innings and allowed five hits. Yearwood hurled for Davidson
in the ninth and only gave the Hornets one hit. The Davidson batters got six runs from nine hits. Bankhead
got three and Jenkins and Neal got two apiece. Neal was catcher for the Cats. Andy Ferguson went the whole
route for the Hornets, and Young was behind the plate. The Charlotte batters made 14 safeties for 11 runs. Carrier
led his team with two homers. Packard and Young chalked up one home run each.

More than 100 rare specimens from South and Central America have been added to Cornell University’s famed orchid collection.

“Y” ENTERTAINS (Continued from Page 1)
Out, they couldn't ever be replaced. But each year seemed to bring a finer group. This fact is just as
true in the case of the present cabinets. He congratulated the men who had served and urged the new men
to follow in their footsteps. Dr. Arbuckle closed his exhortation saying that while serving “we are not servants, but friends—"
“Henceforth I call you not servants; for the servant knoweth not what his lord doeth: but I have called you
friends; for all things that I have heard of my Father I have made known unto you.” After the meeting
had been adjourned, the group was served a buffet dinner, the feature of the evening. Dr. Arbuckle has for many
years been chairman of the Y. M. C. A. Board of Control. In the words of “Y” Secretary McClure: “Dr.
Arbuckle may well be termed the father of the Y. M. C. A. in this institution. He has always been
one of the most loyal supporters of the organization since its inception. Both he and Mrs. Arbuckle have taken an
active part in years past.” Five of the fifteen cabinet members—Wade Boggs, Harris Bradley, Walter Dickson, Bill Kiesewetter, Ken Scott—have
served on the cabinet before.

LIBRARY SECURES (Continued from Page 3)
Herald-Tribune” says of it: “In this book a broad-minded cosmopolitan surgeon and biologist of world-famous attainment pours out the philosophy
of a thoughtful lifetime, suggesting the first outlines of a science of man and giving the reader in simple language
as much medical knowledge as he needs to know to comprehend the argument.” Three of the new books have to
do with music, namely: “Philip Hale’s Boston Symphony Programme Notes,” “The Layman’s Music Book” by Olga S. Stokowski, and Eric
Clarke’s “Music in Everyday Life.”

CHRIST NEEDS NEW LEADERS
Union Theological Seminary, Richmond, Virginia. (A Serial Advertisement)
To the Christian Students of Davidson College:
When a great remedy is to be applied in a time of great need, the call is not for mediocrity.
It is an opportunity for men of great talents who have had great advantages. If any of you, who enjoy
unusual advantages at Davidson, are endowed with great capacity, it is not accidental. The Great Commander is saying to you:
“Look without—at the great need. Look within—at the great capacity. These are complementary.” Use your common sense to interpret His
orders. He is calling you to the front—probably to the first post of leadership—the Christian ministry. (To be continued in
this space later) (If you would like to see this entire series in one setting, write for a copy to
Ben R. Lacy, Jr., President, Union Theological Seminary).

FROSH TRACK TEAM (Continued from Page 4)
Also placed second in the half mile. The 440-yard dash went to Abbott, who ran in 56.6. Harrison's time on
the hundred-yard dash was 10.6, and the 220-yard dash he ran in 24.5. He ran the 220-yard low hurdles in
28.7, with Tice placing second. Johnny Tice finished third in the hundred, also. Boyd jumped 19 feet 3 inches in
the broad jump, and Tice placed third in the event. The shot put was won by Warden at 37 feet
2 3/4 inches with Johnston and Miller second and third. Johnson threw the javelin 152 feet 4 inches in the
winning distance, and Boyd came second. The discus was won by McClellan's heave of 107 feet 2 inches. Boyd placed
second in the discus, close behind. Boyd won the 120-yard high hurdles in 19 seconds. The pole vault went to
Danner, a Wofford man, in Sample’s absence. Boyd, Hipp, and Graves scored in the high jump.

Cornell University farm experts are producing thick-skinned onions by coating the plants with copper sulphate.

UNDER-GRAD PRESS
“Cheer Leaders” ... daring, colorful, different fabrics ... smart models... and yes, some very new ideas. “Cheer Leaders” are decidedly
off the beaten path. Nine chances out of ten you'll like them ... nine out of ten do!

$27.50 $99.50
TATE-BROWN CO.
College Shop Third Floor

What's going on in these 40 houses—the curing and aging of leaf tobacco. Thousands of hogsheads of mild ripe tobacco
are under these roofs... just lying here aging and sweetening and mellowing for Chesterfield cigarettes. Like Rip Van Winkle, they
sleep—the tobaccos getting mellower and milder for the cigarette that Satisfies.

© 1936, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.

With Kostelanetz Concert Orchestra and Chorus
KOSTELANETZ 45 PIECE DANCE ORCHESTRA
with Kay Thompson and Ray Heatherton
WEDNESDAY, 9 P.M. (E.D.T.)
LILY PONS FRIDAY, 10 P.M. (E.D.T.)
and the Rhythm Singers
COLUMBIA NETWORK
