Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 25, 1936

The Davidsonian
Founded By the Class of 1915

1936 Member 1937
Associated Collegiate Press
Distributors of Collegiate Digest

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON Ave. New York, N.Y.
CHICAGO - BOSTON - SAN FRANCISCO
LOS ANGELES - PORTLAND - SEATTLE

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879

SIM MORTON ........................................ Editor-in-Chief
R. H. ROBINSON .................................... Business Manager
Owen Cooke ........................................ Managing Editor
Sam Cothran ........................................ Managing Editor
Euclid Fant ........................................ Managing Editor
Hector McGeachy ................................ Managing Editor
Dick Vowles ........................................ Managing Editor
Yates Faison ........................................ Sports Editor
Harry Kuykendall ............................ Associate Editor
Howell Overton ................................. Associate Editor
Harold Sugg ........................................ Associate Editor
Raymond Turner .............................. Associate Editor
John Nisbet ........................................ Associate Editor
Sam Ryburn ........................................ Art Editor
Fitz Dade ........................................ Copy Reader
Wilson Lowrance ............................ Circulation Manager
Ralph Chandler ............................... Circulation Manager
Charles Moore .................................. Collection Manager
J. J. Hill ............................................. Asst. Business Manager

To thy own self be true;
And it must follow, as the night the day,
Thou canst not then be false to any man.
—Shakespeare.

THANKSGIVING
Besides being thankful for an opportunity to defeat the Wake Forest Deacons, we must remember that Thanksgiving Day should be
a day of some meditation—considering the many blessings, benefits, and favorable circumstances that are ours to enjoy. Our forefathers, after
much suffering, decided to proclaim the last Thursday in November as a day of prayer and thanksgiving. It meant much
to them; it should mean much to us.

ALL-STATE
Every Davidson student should send in a ballot to The Charlotte Observer, supporting members of the Wildcat football team for
All-State honors. Ballots will appear from time to time in The Observer, so send one in before December 3.

WHAT’S THE SCORE
No kidding, we couldn’t see whether that goal was kicked! Thus we need a scoreboard. Although we are anxiously waiting
for the electrically operated scoreboard, we had just as soon use the old, dilapidated stand-by of previous seasons.

TICKETS
We sincerely hope that a satisfactory arrangement can be worked out, which will permit students to buy girls’ tickets at
the former price, under more favorable conditions.

VESPERS
The musical vesper Sunday was superb. But why can’t we have more Vespers of this type, which are undoubtedly beneficial
to the students in many respects? Note: The printed program necessary in this type of service would add much to
our regular Vespers. They present the order of the service and eliminate the necessity of stating who the visiting speaker
will be for the following Sunday.

YE ACTORS
The Red and Black Masquers organization presented one of their best productions of recent performances last week. More interest is
being manifested in dramatics at Davidson, due to the superior plays offered in the past two years.

PRIORITY
Officials of William and Mary College had a large slab of marble built in the side of the main building
stating the numerous fields the institution pioneered in. Davidson likewise should erect such a tablet listing: (1) No drinking at
football games; (2) no automobiles allowed on campus; (3) first woman supervisor of dormitories; (4) first college to install indirect
lighting in all the dormitory rooms; and numerous other items that can be named. Such an addition would be impressive
to people visiting Davidson and would bring these facts to members in college.

PUBLIC SPEAKING
Public Speaking and journalistic courses are noticeably lacking from the curriculum. Many Davidson students enter the ministry and law which
necessitates their appearing before meetings with poise, dignity, and the ability to “think on your feet.” We hope these courses
can be installed early enough for members of the present student body to enjoy the advantages resulting from such additions.

Sizzling Seniors
Several weeks ago an editorial appeared in The Davidsonian lamenting the fact that the seniors had been deprived of their
only senior privilege when they were required to sit in specified seats in church. This article voiced the sentiments of
the seniors regarding this fact but as yet nothing has been done about it. It is the purpose of this
editorial to suggest a compromise with the administration if they still see it best to require the seniors to attend
the Vesper Services on Sunday nights. The senior section in Vespers extends well back in the auditorium, leaving only the
rear seats for the townspeople and visitors. Often they do not realize that the better seats are reserved for the
students and take seats in the student section only to be told by ushers that they must sit in the
back of the auditorium behind the students. On some occasions, as last Sunday night, there is a larger number of
visitors than usual and some of them find it necessary to sit in the balcony while many of the better
seats among the student section are unoccupied. The writer suggests that the seniors be allowed to sit wherever they please
behind the juniors and thus give our visitors a better selection of seats. In this way the seniors would be
able to sit with any of their classmates they please, and the visitors could have better seats and save many
of them the embarrassment of being asked to sit elsewhere. The presence of the seniors could be ascertained in several
ways. In the same manner as the seniors did last year, they could sign a statement Monday morning in chapel
saying that they had attended the Vesper Service the evening before. If this method proved unsatisfactory they could sign pieces
of paper during the Vesper Service and leave them in receptacles near the door at the close of the service.
In either of these ways the administration could be assured that the seniors attended the Vesper Service, and meanwhile the
seniors would be more satisfied than they are now, and our visitors would be treated more courteously.—W. H. H.

THANKSGIVING (Lino-cut by Bob Miller)

SWEEPING THE CAMPUS
By Nozy

Voting
For the past several years, the policy has been followed of presenting plans to the Student Body and the vote
taken the same morning. This plan has been severely criticized as the Student Body does not have sufficient time to
think over the problem and members do not have time to discuss it before the final balloting could be taken.
Wouldn't it be a better idea to have the results recorded in a secret ballot the morning following the presentation
of the proposed change or addition?

Campus Comments
No sane person can deny that living conditions and personal liberties in the United States have far surpassed those to
be found in older but less fortunate nations. And none can logically deny that the American form of government is
largely responsible for our many advantages. And yet, after accepting the above facts, why do we lapse into a state
of apathy? In other words, what has become of “patriotism”—the noble spirit which banded our forefathers together in a common
interest? We admit that a good football team cannot accomplish results without wholehearted support, and how can we logically assume
that a good system of government can maintain itself without the co-operation of its elements? Haven’t we allowed a desire
for jazz-age sophistication to dull our spirit of enthusiasm? Do we fail to show the proper courtesy to our flag
because we think it’s smart or intellectual to do so? Patriotism must be more than blind enthusiasm. It must be
a deep devotion based on appreciation. Why not take a few calm moments to realize and appreciate our advantages and
our good form of government, without considering “Red-baiting” and emotionally toned propaganda, and thus renew our devotion and strengthen our
resolve to uphold this system. A rejuvenated patriotism would do much to curb individual selfishness and would abolish many abuses
of the privileges that we enjoy.

JACK BRANCH, Battalion Captain.

P. S.—I request Stewart Barnes, Co-Manager of the Student Store, to write the next Campus Comments.

Our congratulations to Professor Frontis Johnston upon his recently announced engagement to the lovely Miss Lucey Currie.

TRIVIANA—What was wrong with the organ last Friday so that it could not be played at the Masquers’ production? Several
of the boys have been getting literature from the Keeley Institute, well-known enemy of the little man with the hammer.
Bob McClellan goes to Charlotte every Sunday night to discover if it’s true what they say about the Mitchell extra-curricula
courses. “Aba” squelched at Watson Street carrying a mail bag to the Post Office for his mail. Colonel Rhett, active
in publications at South Carolina, spotted Nozy. One of Georgia Rats gayly his Sats. Buddy Branton, Wally Tonnison, Charles Smith
and LaMathis enjoyed a Bristol, Va. party. Sam Ryburn’s Centre res in hasn’t the socks yet. Dick Roque took in
a Brenau and Bri for the week-end. Carl- ton is still waiting for the subtle approach. George Armfield will spectate
at the Army-Navy game. Ken Scott took in the lovely Cornhusker Nino Martini concert. Mrs. Cumming ably carried on during
the Professor’s absence. Andy Allen is getting those long phone calls from Alabama, Bobby Florence from Chicago, and Croucho Corbin
from Georgia and it’s not the Bishop’s Daughter; Sam Cothran is good at balcony scenes. Stew Barnes returned from Statesville
with that disgruntled expression on his face. What did Chapel Hill have that Jerry Harris didn’t have last week-end? Tom
Breedon and Howard Covington conversed last week-end. Rah Rah Vogler, Anyole Port, and Bob Stewart enjoyed several no-breaks at Salem.
Jack Tillotson, the Goofs, the Ganiers, and Rut Miller went to Greensboro and paid the piper on the way back.
Is Neill Whitlock struck? Alma Smith just one of the girls? The lad who rode from Charlotte on Plant Dick
McLean judging a beauty in Norfleet.Enjoyed the publication con- ventions so much that he’s taking Fred from behind in another
one before long. Warren couldn't get the eight ball in time. Pete McKnight's milk fund should carry him through Sophomore
Week-end. George Hornbeck is spending a few days on the campus between weekends. Queens girls got out for the first
time in a body for the SPE party. Several of the boys were present at one of the Duchess of
York's famous dinners Saturday evening. And what’s this rumor?

Stolen Thunder
By DAYMOND TURNER

More Football—
Like the preceding ditty, these definitions were swiped from The Technique:
Delayed Buck—One friend.
Backward Pass—A “D” average.
Lent to a Goal—Color of the setting sun.
Quarterback—Minor refund.
Halfback—Man on his way home.
Touchdown—Bend over.
Wide Sweep—Big Broom.
Single Wingback—Well-formed buzzard.

Linguist—
Jones: How is your son getting along in college?
Smith: He must be doing pretty well in languages. I just paid for three courses—$10 for Latin, $10 for Greek,
and $100 for Scotch.

Femina Perfecta—
She doesn’t paint,
She doesn’t rouge,
She doesn’t smoke,
She doesn’t booze,
She doesn’t kiss,
She doesn’t pet,
She’s fifty-eight—
And single yet!

Quick, Henry—!
One: That girl sure has a lot of culture.
Two: Yeah?
One: Physical.

Cycle—
1. Man is born
2. Man grows up
3. Man kicks bucket
4. Man is buried
5. Man turns to dust
6. Grass grows from dust

Concerning the proposed schedule for Friday's classes? The All-Americans B Squad will close a season of being tackling and blocking
dummies for the varsity on Wednesday. They've had a large share in making the team what it has been this
year but they have had neither trips, games, nor passes. They're the gas-house gang of the gridiron and play for
the fun of it. They ought to get a little more recognition.

The Theater had a party in the Tavern Saturday night with Socrates Sugg, Stew Barnes, Johnny Allen, Longhorn Thompson, Salty
Peters, Jack Branch, Bob Downie, Bill Higgins, and Bob Abell as guests of honor. Don’t forget the D Club hop
in Charlotte Hotel Ballroom Thursday night. Turkey dinner to every guy bringing a date and a wishbone to the stags.

And about this Mid-Winter proposition! We don't want to be too inquisitive or unreasonable but memories of past experience leave
a bitter taste. We're looking forward to Mid-Winters for we have a lot of faith in the present Pan-Hellenic president,
but would like to strenuously urge a big-name band for Centennial Mid-Winters. WHO IS GOING TO PLAY FOR MID-WINTERS?

OPEN FORUM

DEAR EDITOR:
With the growing tendency for colleges and universities to make football a big business, it is but right that these
athletes should receive some due compensation! The present Graham Plan does not aid those who happen to have athletic ability
and cannot get through school without financial assistance. Do not these athletes deserve something from the gate receipts which they
make possible? The football athletes put in something like 250 hours a season on their spring practices, daily workouts, and
games. During these 250 hours these athletes run great risks that are never thought of. Every year some athletes give
their lives on the gridiron and some receive injuries, internal or external, from which they will never recover. Throughout life
they will carry some handicap. When these athletes go out on the football field they never know what fate has
in store for them. These athletes take great physical punishment, day after day, and come back for more. Then, too,
they travel to take the name of their school to greater glory. They miss classes they have paid to attend.
These athletes train throughout the season while the rest of the students do as they please. These are just a
few things. The athletes take all the physical risks and punishment, do the work that makes the gate receipts possible,
and receive nothing but impartiality from the Graham Plan as a “thank you.” This Graham Plan is nothing but high-pressure
salesmanship—the colleges and universities get all the gate receipts and do nothing comparatively—something for nothing. The athletes deserve a break
but will not get it as long as this unjust plan is in effect. Let’s abolish the Graham Plan!
ELWOOD MOYER.

MILITARY MEN
(Continued from Page 1)
Blade “Journal” among the various colleges. Two other founders besides Taylor were present—Leo M. Cook and Harold K. Weld. Distinguished
guests were welcomed by John W. Harrison, president of N. C. State College and were presented to the convention by
Chas. S. Caffery, Professor of Military Science and Tactics at N. C. State. At the final meeting on Saturday, the
new national officers were installed, and it was also decided that the site of the next convention would be Beverly,
Calif.

PRODUCTIONS OF RED
(Continued from Page 1)
Weaver, who offered himself for every part in the play, was finally chosen to play the part of Pyramus. Jim
Wilson, a bellows-mender, was selected for the female lead, Thisbe. Bill Nicholson wore a lion’s head mask to show his
identity and Sam Ryburn was dressed to represent a wall in the final production. Elmer Heulan carried a lantern to
show that he was the Moon. The court was composed of Warren Gaw as Duke Theseus, Jack Holland as Demetrius,
C. V. Hendricks as Lysander, Bill Perdew as Hippolytus, and A. R. Kenyon as Philostrate. Stage managers were Mac Covington
and Dick Vowles, Ed Morrow handled makeup; Bill McIlwinen, costumes; and Bill McIlwinen also directed the production.

“The Real Mr. Q” concerned itself with a case of mistaken identity in which Tom Hackney and Sam Spencer, small-time
crooks, played Wade Barrow for a “sucker,” only to find that he was the big-time criminal they were imitating. Both
plays were under the personal supervision of Prof. E. J. Erwin, who is faculty advisor to the Masquers.

Horses eat grass.

Devotion—
“Will you love me when my hair turns gray?”
“Why not? I’ve loved you from black through henna to platinum already.”

Dignity—
A senior stood on the railroad track,
The train was coming fast;
The train got off the railroad track
To let the senior pass.

Youth—
The Freshman stood on the burning deck,
But as far as I could learn,
He stood with perfect safety,
He was too green to burn.

Moral—Never kick a horse, you might injure a former relative.

CUDID FANT
(Being as fed up with reading my stuff as you are, I have decided to break the monotony occasionally by
having somebody whose brain isn't stale fill this strip.—Kernel).

Guest Writer—Wade Barrow
Kernels, like everybody else, get tired occasionally; and consequently their public (?) must suffer. Frankly, I’m just like everybody else.
I didn't know the Kernel had a column, either, until the honor of producing it was bestowed upon me; but
anything to make college life more disagreeable is right in my line, so I’m off:

Heaven only knows what our Longhorn Kernel would ever have to write about if it wasn’t for his bosom pal,
that everything-that’s-fit-to-print-wrong young man, affectionately known as Nozy Broom. So well has this menace concealed his real identity that the
experts have even begun to accuse the Kernel himself of being Nozy Broom—you know, two-faced and all that sort of
thing. But that’s out. Kernel admits he wouldn’t go around wearing the face he does if he had another.

The draft in chapel last Friday morning almost blew the boys on the front row out of their seats. Train
service at Davidson, it would seem, is perking up. We had all day Thursday to concentrate on buying our tickets
and exactly six minutes Friday to board the train and find a seat. Wouldn't it have been better if we
had been given a little longer to acclimate ourselves? Suppose someone had arisen and said, “Mr. President, I think you
have an excellent plan. As a whole, it is a fine idea. But I'd like a little while to think
over some of the particular conditions therein contained.” What then? That someone would have been justly entitled to such actions,
but wouldn’t he have been a sad-looking mess, and wrongly so, when the train pulled out?

The Red and Black Masquers crashed through again with their grand interpretation of scenes from “A Midsummer Night’s Dream.” Pyramus
did a fine job of displaying the contortions through which one goes while ceasing to exist, and at the same
time getting out from behind the organ. Thisbe, with biceps flexed, demonstrated the art of delivering a dreadful love kick
to her lover. And Snug (I mean) the Joyner was exceptionally well cast. (Did you notice how quickly the bloody
shawl appeared when needed?)

The only caddy on the local course who doesn’t besiege you for favors every time he sees you is regarding
the world from behind the eight ball these days. Apprehended in a misdemeanor recently, he’s just begun a twelve-month sentence.
It would be decidedly worthwhile to swap all the caddies still at large for this one, even if he does
do lots of things on the campus that the students can’t do.

Henry VIII may kill off his wives as fast as he chooses, and Poopdeck Pappy may slap Olive Oyl around
to his heart’s content, but it takes a Davidson man to throw peanuts at girls during a football game. Traditions
like this make D. C. what it is today.

Thanksgiving is upon us once again. Our Pilgrim forefathers probably wouldn’t like it a bit if they knew we planned
to turn the day into a day of slaughter. Here is how it'll be done. We'll slaughter that good turkey
dinner. Then we'll slaughter that good Demon Deacon. Then we'll listen to the orchestra slaughter good music (I’m just kidding)
at the “D” Club blowout in the Hotel Charlotte. All in all, slaughter be good (Kernel does it, so I
can too). One hundred years of preparation, you know. It’s going to be a big day in all respects.
