Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN. WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 1936

The Davidsonian
Founded By the Class of 1915

1936 Member 1937
Associated Collegiate Press
Distributors of Collegiate Digest

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON Ave. NEW York, N.Y.
CHICAGO - BOSTON - SAN FRANCISCO
LOS ANGELES - PORTLAND - SEATTLE

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879.

JIM MORTON Editor
R. H. ROBINSON Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
Owen Cooke Managing Editor
Sam Cothran Managing Editor
Euclid Fant Managing Editor
Hector Ge. Managing Editor
Dick Yates Sports Editor
Fais Fais Associate Editor
Harry Kuykendall Associate Editor
Howell Overton Associate Editor
Harold Sugg Associate Editor
Daymond Turner Associate Editor
John Winn Associate Editor
Sam Ryburn Art Editor
Fitz Dade Copy Reader
Wilson Lowrance Circulation Manager
Ralph Chandler Circulation Manager
Charles Moore Collection Manager
Alfred Gos Advertising Manager

He who conferred a kindness should be silent, he who has received one should speak of it.—Seneca.

LEAVING...
For the past two games, many students have left the stands before the contest had terminated. This is one of the potent points in the Davidson spirit and it would be advantageous for students to remain until the final whistle has blown.

MODERN MUSIC...
We want to suggest to the members of the music department that they play semi-classical or modern music at least once a week at the chapel hour. It is our belief that the students would appreciate such music more and really get more appreciation of music from it.

TRIBUTE TO PLAYERS
We heartily endorse the custom of standing when a Davidson man leaves the game, which has just been inaugurated here. We hope this way of paying tribute to a player will continue in popularity.

ORGAN RECITALS...
All of the students who attended Prof. McDonald’s first recital came away enthusiastic. We hope the interest will grow. Students are urged to express their appreciation to the Music Department and make suggestions as to pieces they would enjoy hearing.

ONCE IN A CENTURY...
It took a hundred years—for two members of the college administration to marry while employed by this institution. But we are glad to see this innovation. And congratulations!

DIFFICULTY...
We would like to see Davidson College and our Presbyterian sister school, Queens-Chicora, co-operate in sponsoring more mutual functions. A step forward has been taken this year by officials of both colleges permitting more joint meetings. But strenuous regulations still place considerable restraint upon these infrequent gatherings. Incidentally, several have been penalized at nearby colleges for attending an open, forward, and above-board entertainment of the other college which we regret very much. We hope some arrangement can be made to correct these difficulties.

JOURNALISM...
We haven’t obtained our school of journalism yet. Another issue which we heartily approve is to plant flowers and additional shrubbery around the campus.

RHODES SCHOLARS...
We are glad to see many of the seniors applying for this honor—and we hope to have a repetition of last year’s success by placing one of our number. Davidson has produced seven Rhodes Scholars thus far and we believe this number can be increased by the graduating class this year.

DR. HARDING...
We are sincerely glad to hear that Dr. Harding is improving and will return to his duties in college within two or three weeks. He is the oldest member of the Davidson college faculty, and has taught in this college for exactly forty-eight years.

Affront...
Like all well-equipped colleges we have an “Infirmary.” The building is in worse condition than the students it ever houses, only holding together by sheer will-power or orneriness. Without steam heat, unlovely in appearance, poorly arranged and inadequately equipped, it is a nightmare both to the sick and to those who have to wait upon them. Even in a mild epidemic, as of the usual spring cases of flu, there are just enough beds and sufficient room to accommodate all the sick adequately. The location of the rooms is poor and makes for inefficiency. The lighting system could be improved. This wooden structure was used as a dwelling when presented to the college thirty years ago. As an infirmary it is particularly inadequate. Its location as a college building is extremely poor.

A Protest...
Several weeks ago there appeared in this column a defense of our athletic officials for the way they handled the difficulties involved in the demand for girls tickets prior to the Carolina game. At that time we had no idea of the action which has since been taken regarding the seating at our Thanksgiving clash with Wake Forest. We are informed on reliable authority that there will be NO GIRLS TICKETS available for this game. WE WISH TO PROTEST AND HEARTILY CONDEMN THIS ACTION! We understand that the proffered excuse avers that students so far sacrificed their honor and their personal needs before the Carolina game as to resell these tickets to outsiders. We do not deny that this abuse may have occurred in the past, but hardly in the instance cited. Student demand for these tickets was too great. There were not enough to satisfy student NEED. As every member of the student body is a member of the Athletic Association, and every member pays, upon entrance, a substantial athletics fee, it would seem reasonable that some regard be shown for student preferences in the matter. Especially since the custom of girls tickets has proven so popular and become such a well-established one.

Campus Comments

“DOUBLE CUTS”
Since my first year at Davidson I have been unfavorably impressed with the cut-system instituted by this school. It makes one feel a sense of guilt when he attempts to criticize this school which he loves so deeply and to try to pick to pieces one of the most efficient student government systems he is aware of. It would be difficult for me to enumerate the many rights of Davidson College and this is one of the few wrongs which I can find with it. My rebellion is not against the entire cut-system but it is, however, for the advocation of the revision of the present cut-system. The circumstances I refer to is the “double-cut system” penalty for every absence of a student who attends an out-of-town athletic contest. This phase of Davidson administration has always rubbed me the wrong way. I have constantly wondered why the system could not provide means which would encourage rather than forbid attendance to out-of-town games. Why not excuse the absence of those who attend games off the campus and give double cuts to students who went to other places for the weekend. Not all students realize the utter lonesomeness that possesses every player when playing in a strange town when he finds few, if any, familiar faces on the sidelines; he feels licked before the whistle blows. Several years before this school permitted six cuts per semester per student—if this method was recalled it would do a great deal to alleviate this sting of “double-cuts.” My contention is that this school should do more to encourage athletics and an excellent way to start is to encourage student attendance to our out-of-town games.

I must confess my ignorance in matters of student government and administration and thus my argument may be technically without foundation but I do intend that my principle and purpose is the will and desire of most followers of the Davidson spirit. I must say in this connection that regardless of the discouraging and merciless penalties placed on the students for their absences, they have nobly given to the Davidson teams their much-needed attendance at all football contests this year.

JOE HUNTER, Pres. ‘D’ Club.

P. S.—I request Jack Branch, Battalion Major, to write Campus Comments for the next issue of The Davidsonian.

Lino-cut by Bob Miller.

Dear Public—The printer has “done us wrong” three times now so we are going philosophical and refuse to worry about it any more. Into each life some rain must fall, a prophet is without honor, and genius must encounter some obstacles.

This week's look-alikes: Eugene O'Neill and Fields’ Horine. Intriguing name—Zoe Strawn. Our sigh of relief at the demise of “Knock Knock” is cut short by the advent of “What's your business?” sending out a “What is Imagination? Do you know?” questionnaire. Required reading—Sugg’s letter in the Open Forum. We think he has something there. Advance notices indicate that Bill MacIlwinen’s clever production of A Midsummer Night's Dream scheduled for Friday night will be about the best offering of the college theatrical element in a long time. What happened to the ill-fated movement for dances on the campus? It’s the principle of the thing, gentlemen. The longest stander upper in church is being revived from last year. Thomas Wolfe, eminent American author, is speaking in Raleigh in the next few weeks at some convention. Wish we could get him here while he is in this vicinity. Some freshmen don't have what it takes to adopt even the right attitude—caps don't seem to help. There was a refreshingly different party at Queens last Friday night to which Davidson was kindly extended a blanket bid. We didn’t realize before that there were so many lovely girls so nearby. More of you guys should investigate. The most prominent guest at the party was Pinkney Stowe. Walt Dickson was Master of Ceremonies and Bronston Kenny was on the floor show. The Ghost Goes to Town seems to succeed Christopher Columbus in the realm of swing. Saturday's game proved that the Iron Men are not rusty yet. If Prayin’ Colonels can’t stop us, neither can Deacons. What happened to Bigham’s date? Also those of Jimmy Wilson and Ballard. Who put fly-paper in Gildersleeves’ bed? Our cheerleaders will compare favorably with the best of them as the autograph collectors realized. And Lloyd Feuchtenberger makes a swell Wildcat. Carl Carlson and George Norfleet saw Ace Parker clinch his right to All-American.Heman Clark enjoyed his unusual accommodations Saturday night. Walter Heilman has that sleepy look and Jim Dickson and Adie O'Connor are recuperating in the Infirmary. And we thought it was a quiet weekend. Hugh Gracey squired not one but two feminine fans to the game. H. Lutz finally got to Chapel Hill. Julian Squires to Rock Hill.

The Stolen Thunder
By DAYMOND TURNER

End of Season—
The following from the Sewanee Purple are still in order:
Headgear—Masculine first name, “Headgear Rice Burroughs.”
Lateral—Opposite to figurative.
Huddle—Rumble seat frolic.
Center—Spirit of Christmas; last as name Claus.
Kick-Off—Die; croak.
Pass—Same as kick-off.
Left Guard—Radical militia.
Scrimmage—Old saw, platitude.
Squad—To sit on one’s imagination.

Classic—
Three blind men and a stray old mouse,
Came to see where I live, my house.
The men struck one, the mouse ran out,
Goodness knows what this poem's about.—Quaker Campus.

Diary—
Dec. 27—Snow, can't go hunting.
Dec. 28—Still snowin’. Can't go hunting.
Dec. 29—Still snowin’. Shot Grandma.

You See?—
This verse doesn't mean a thing;
It's merely here for volume.
We've simply copied the gol-darned thing to fill this lengthy column.

Oh Yeah—!
Summer is something that in winter you wish you could keep your house as warm as. A tree is something the earth attached to. Cream is something which a dry cereal doesn’t taste so good without unless you use milk but haven't any. —Trinitonian.

Overheard—
She: This is the slickest floor I've ever danced on.
He: You've danced, and that’s my new patent leather shoes, not the floor!

All Present—
A professor at Hastings College recently berated his class for leaving the classroom soon after the beginning of the period. “You could see I was here!” he stormed, “My hat was on my desk.” At the next recitation period not a student was present but there was a hat on top of every desk!

The faculty was well represented at the dance at the Carolina. Preston and Julia Hobbs are still like that. What's all this about the 11:30 bus Saturday night? The Beta House is still waiting for that alumnus with its “Welcome Alumnus” sign. The K. A.’s pulled a June in January with their Maypole after Homecoming. Tom Corbin and the Duchess of York will soon be pushing Wally Simpson off the front page. Don't forget Sugg’s Open Forum letter and the play Friday night. And you might glance over my pal Colonel Phant’s column sometime. It’s pretty good, too. The Nose bids you goodnight.

OPEN FORUM
TO THE EDITOR OF THE DAVIDSONIAN:
Dear “Tiger Jim:”
Like Shakespeare, it looks like “brass, nor stone, nor earth” nor electoral votes can keep me off these editorial pages, as I am again roused by events of the past week to present a few of my sentiments for your consideration. The following remarks are not intended as criticism of the way students were handled at the Homecoming game, as I personally think the situation was reasonably unforeseen, but are suggestions for the development of Davidson policy toward this situation.

It is a most wholesome and attractive feature of football at Davidson that the players are a part of the Student Body, that they typify the Student Body and that they are personally known to the students. It is equally sound that the football team is not an adjunct of the College (nor the College an extension of the football team), but that it is a part of the College. It seems to me that it is in line with the Davidson way of doing things that the Student Body and their girls be first consideration in the stands at football games.

It was brought out in the discussion last week, that the idea of girls tickets is novel among colleges. And the authorities were likened by one of your editorial writers to the poor Arab who let his camel warm his nose in his tent. I do not like that. There are many things at Davidson that are not found in other colleges. I do not think the authorities are being “gyped” by the increasing influx of femininity to Davidson games. The idea of offering students front line tickets at cheap prices for their girls tends to conserve that wholesome common-sense view of football as opposed to the blaring commercialism that whirls through the country in the fall. Of course, this bit of idealism must be tempered by the necessity of financing football and the rest of the athletic budget, but if it is at all possible, I like the idea.

The proposition, then, is this: That Davidson continue, unapologetically, its policy of offering girls tickets to the students in the best seats at low prices, and that when a big game is in the offing that the authorities look ahead and reserve another section for the purpose. If the game is to be large and the profits greater thereof, then let the students and their girls be the last to be pushed aside. It would seem that (a) selling girls tickets would make a financial difference only when the crowd is so large and stadium seats hard to get, and that (b) selling girls tickets would not mean a loss when crowds are small, and might even be considered a good business proposition, since room is plentiful and demand small. Since in proposition (a) crowds are large and receipts plentiful and the treasury in good shape, it is possible that the budget could afford selling girls tickets. I believe that in a big game the greater receipts will enable the administration to stand the loss for the girls tickets; and that the gain in principle will be worth the financial loss.

In closing I would like to emphasize that this is not written to carp over the situation; the officials were just met by a rolling mountain.

Your loving ex-roommate,
HAROLD SUGG

CHRYSANTHEMUMS
At the past few games there have been many girls wearing chrysanthemums. This is a practice that is very popular at the large colleges throughout the country. We recommend it heartily. The flowers are inexpensive and add more of the color that makes a real football game.

CLASSROOM QUOTES
“The book ‘Life Begins at Forty’ did not prove anything except that Mr. Pitkin is over forty.”
“Pacifism is a doctrine held by both sexes.”
“If you are going to grow spinach, you will never have Utopia as long as you have that stuff.”
“Nobody likes to kiss a girl whose nose is running.”
“Great balls of fire.”
“That’s your little red wagon.”
“You’ll pay through the nose.”
“Did you hear me on the right; did you hear me on the left? All right then.”
“One picture is better than a thousand words.”
“He has about as much use for Psychology as a sow has for side-pockets.”

NUTSHELL
The Davidsonian (“All the news that’s two weeks old—for a bitter Davidson”) continues to make its lamented arrival on the campus late, so Kernel has a suggestion to make to our editor, who is the other reader of this column. Why not set a regular day for its appearance—Thursday? Then it would be early when it’s on time, and on time when it’s late. If you get what I mean. Otherwise, skip it.

A hasty glance at my calendar reveals that there are precisely 34 more days till Christmas vacation begins. Who was it that wrote: “Time creeps in its petty pace from day to day?” He summed it up pretty well. Wish I’d thought of that first, but then, I never do.

Last Saturday, destined to be a red-letter day in the annals of the bus company, saw the Prayin’ Colonels brought to their knees in another way. Another swell game with plenty of color. Suggestion to N. B.: Try writing your stuff in the sky like that pilot did over the stadium. Then it'll get read.

A more-or-less prominent member of the Red and Black Masquers is responsible for this atrocity:
If you can’t go to see the play
Buy a ticket anyway.

All of which leads up to a mention of the fact that “A Midsummer Night’s Dream,” and something called “The Real Q” (never saw a fake Q myself; wouldn’t know one if I did), will be perpetrated on the Chambers stage next Tuesday night. Better be there. Anything can happen!

After trying for about two hours to sell them, the program boys gave away their wares at Saturday’s game. Not bad, that program, but did you notice that one of our players is thirty-two years old? If you don’t know who it is, dig up one of last week’s programs.

Saturday morning in Chapel an unwelcome guest gave our organist one of the best opportunities for quick thinking I’ve heard about in a long time. His plaintive “Where, O Where, Is My Little Dog Gone” has not been answered, but my guess is that he went out on his ear when Oscar reached the nearest exit.

Just having made a rash promise to make a stab at writing a bit of information each week about some campus demi-god, this is offered as a starter: Oscar McTavish, height, four feet four; weight, three ninety-eight, stripped; idiosyncrasies, sleeps in the closet, combs his hair with a toothbrush, and (you may not believe this one) likes to study. Rooms in the bushes of West. Now you write one!

Sophomore weekend is in the air, and here’s hoping the class of '39 doesn’t come out on the weak end of the bargain. First all the bills must be paid; then all that is Leftwich (may be very little), can go into the pockets of the sophs. (Just couldn’t resist that one!)

Did you come back on the bus from Charlotte at 11:30 Saturday night? If not, you'd better find somebody that did, preferably somebody that sat on the back seat, and find out about what Caldwell produces. If McDuff had only turned off those lights!

Jake Wade commented in his column last week on the drive being made by The Davidsonian for restoration of the scoreboard on Richardson Field. More like a putt than a drive, the single editorial on this subject seems to have attracted some attention. Better have a big one there before the Wake Forest game. Our score might run into three figures.