THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 4, 1936

Rhett Supplies Information About Advanced ROTC Course

SCHOOL ALTERS EXAM PROGRAM

Students Will Be Tested At End of Each Unit of Work

College Requires Two Class Periods and Three Hours of Drill Each Week

Colonel R. T. Rhett, head of the Davidson R.O.T.C. department, has furnished the following information to those students interested in
taking the Advanced Course in R.O.T.C. The college allows six hours credit for work in the Advanced Course and requires
two class periods and three hours of drill each week. The regular allowance by the government is approximately $7.50 a
month, plus a payment on uniforms. The students are required to attend a six weeks’ camp at Fort McClellan, Anniston,
Alabama, and the regular allowance is supplemented by board, lodging, and the use of government transportation for travel to and
from camp, along with pay of $0.70 a day during camp. Graduates receive commissions as Second Lieutenants in the United
States Army and are eligible for two weeks of service each year or six months in the CCC detail. While
in active service, they receive the same regular pay as Second Lieutenants in the Army.

Bigham To Study At ROTC Chemical Camp

The Military Department has announced that Cadet First Sergeant K. Bigham has been appointed to attend the ROTC Chemical Warfare
Service Camp at Edgewood Arsenal, Maryland.

Masquers Look For One-Act Productions

All plays must be submitted by the fifteenth of March and will be eligible for production on the Davidson stage.

LOCALS ATTEND (Continued from Page 1)

According to Miss Bobbie James, of Woman’s College, the students were entertained by the State College students.

Greensboro Senior High School has adopted a new system for examinations, it is announced by Mr. Paul Routh, principal, in
charge of formulating this plan. Instead of retaining final examinations as has been the custom, there will be examinations held
after each unit of work has been completed. This plan also calls for objective tests instead of subjective tests. Mr.
Routh stated the reasons for the change as follows: “The original system required ten to twelve days for final examinations,
which was considered too great a strain on the students. The new system is designed to test students at the
end of each unit of work rather than at the end of the semester.” Schools throughout the country are adopting
this plan, and reports indicate it is successful.

Phonograph Records Pianos Everything Musical ANDREWS MUSIC COMPANY N. Tryon St. Charlotte

“DRIFT FENCE” Thu.-Fri. ZANE GREY Tarzan Serial “High School Girl” Matinee 15c Night 20c

Who is to Blame? Young love Monday Thru Wednesday IT DARES TO TELL THE TRUTH! Next Edmund Lowe “GRAND EXIT”
Thur. G-Man of the STATE CHARLOTTE

AMONG THE GREEKS (Continued from Page 5)

Pi Kappa Phi—Many of the brothers spent the weekend off the campus. Brothers Mitchell and Arrowsmith went to Florence, S.C.;
Brother Herb Willis went to Edgefield; Brother Dunlap Covington visited in Greensboro; Brother Mack Covington spent the weekend in Wadesboro;
Brothers Bill Deyerle, “Salty” Peters, and Bobby Paul went to Bluefield; Bobby Burgess went to Roanoke, Va.; Sam Hemphill to
Marion, N.C.; and Bobby Cooper to Sumter, S.C. Brother Dan Castle's family visited the local chapter over the weekend. Brother
Ralph Chandler was elected treasurer.

Phi Gamma Delta—Elmore Holt, Hal Overton, and the Cooke twins made various trips over the weekend. Brewer of Clarksdale, Miss.,
Nesbit of Montgomery, Alabama, and Elmore will be initiated Thursday night.

Phi Delta Theta—Several of the brothers attended a dance in Charlotte over the weekend. Brothers Barnes, Crooks, Westall, and Rainey
visited in Asheville. Brothers Bob and Duke Glasgow of Charlotte, with Miss Toi Monroe, visited the local chapter. Professor Benjamin
Childs of Duke University, Province President of Phi Delta, was a guest of the chapter Wednesday and Friday.

Sigma Phi Epsilon—Brothers Henry and John Doty spent the weekend at home in Rogersville, Tenn. Chiles Campbell was the guest
of John Doty at his home over the weekend. Brothers Wiley Bradley, Charles, and Gordon Smith attended dances at Greensboro
Saturday night. Brother Walt Heilman spent the weekend with Hiram White in Lexington. Hiram White spent the weekend at his
home in Lexington.

STUPID TEACHING

Dolly was just home after her first day at school. “Well,” asked her mother, “how did you like it?” “Not
much,” replied the child. “I have to go back again tomorrow.”

WEDNESDAY SATURDAY ROSA PONSELLE MARTI © 1936, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.

GENERAL INFORMATION (Continued from Page 1)

13. Italics are so called because Aldus Manutius dedicated this type of writing to the States of Italy about 1500
A.D.

14. The Trojan war, which is described in the Iliad of Homer, is only a literary creation and has no
existence as a historical occurrence.

15. According to the Ricardian theory of land rent, goods produced with the aid of the most desirable land sell
at high prices because the high rent of the land is included in the price.

16. Socrates was one of the most famous disciples of Plato.

17. There is no evidence that North Carolina was ever invaded by continental ice sheets.

18. Leguidus, sunt translated means “I should read the book.”

19. The common habit ofSpeaking of a particularly ugly bull-dog of Berkshire hog as a “beauty” is not satire, but
an expression, slightly exaggerated, of a fundamental aesthetic truth.

20. Common-law marriage is still recognized in the United States.

21. A nebula is actually a large number of individual stars.

22. If a pure strain of tall (pole) beans is crossed with a pure strain of dwarf (bunch) beans, all
the hybrids are tall.

23. Children of Chinese or Japanese parents can never become citizens of the United States.

24. The similarity of such pairs of words as father and Vater, mother and Mutter is explained by the fact
that English has borrowed extensively from German.

25. The abolishment of theaters in 1642 by the church-dominated Puritan government was the culmination of hostility which the English
had exhibited from the beginning of the drama in England.

26. The weight of a man is apparent according to the buoyancy of the air and centrifugal force.

27. The elements of music are the staff, rhythm, and harmony.

28. The United States Supreme Court never declares an act of Congress void, nor does it have the power to
do so; but when an act of Congress conflicts with the constitution, the court is duty-bound to enforce the supreme
law of the land, viz., the constitution.

29. Pica type is larger than Canon type.

30. The leading theories of Voltaire, as expressed in such works as the Philosophical Dictionary, are that mankind in its
original state of nature was happier than under modern conditions.

31. Among the apostles, Thaddeus and Thomas were different names of the same person.

32. A starfish is fundamentally a bilaterally symmetrical animal.

33. The second law of thermodynamics states that entropy is an ever-increasing quantity.

34. Friedrich List was a German economist of the 19th century who undertook to show that the doctrine of the
advantages of free trade was universally valid.

35. It is hardly too much to say that the nude in contemporary art, as compared with its use in
the classical Greek period, is an obsolete theme feebly enlivened by furtive appeals to doubtful passion.

36. In William Tell, Goethe has contributed to German literature one of its best-known dramas.

37. There was a commander-in-chief of the Allied Forces on the Western Front during the entire war.

38. College work, such as problem-solving, is more likely to be improved than affected disadvantageously by distraction.

39. Two numbers are said to be reciprocal if their product is equal to one.

40. Helium gas has a density twice that of hydrogen, and therefore its "lifting power" when used in a balloon
is fifty percent that of hydrogen.

41. William Jennings Bryan never opposed Theodore Roosevelt as candidates in a presidential campaign.

42. Hedonism is the doctrine that the pursuit of pleasure and the avoidance of pain constitute the criterion of conduct.

43. The Italian language has a present progressive tense in common use.

44. Prices of stocks and bonds rise and fall together.

45. The Winnetka Plan is a program of teacher training used by the state of Michigan.

46. The English alphabet originally came from an alphabet used in Greece.

47. Chateaubriand’s descriptions of Florida and the Mississippi are accurate because of the fact that he traveled extensively in these
sections of America, having come to this country in search of the North-West Passage.

48. When a highway changes its direction to the right or the left, it follows a circular arc.

49. The Hapsburgs ruled in Berlin, first as kings of Prussia, then as German emperors, until the end of the
Great War.

COLLEGE BAND MAKES TOUR (Continued from Page 1)
Spartanburg, S.C., to give a morning concert at Converse College. Their next stop will be Greenville, S.C. Moving on into
Georgia, the band will play in Atlanta, at Agnes Scott College in Decatur, and in Rome. They will spend two
days in Chattanooga, Tennessee, their appearances including one morning concert at the stadium of the University of Chattanooga. The group
will then go to Winston-Salem, the hometown of Professor Pfohl.

MARCH 18 OPENS SEASON (Continued from Page 4)
March 8—Catawba, there; March 27—Hampden-Sydney, there; March 28—University of Richmond, there; April 1—University of Virginia, there; April 5—Furman, here; April
9—University of Georgia, here; April 10—University of South Carolina, here; April 11—Hampden-Sydney, here; April 15—Catawba, there; April 22—University of Georgia,
there; April 23-25—Southern Intercollegiate Invitational Tournament to be held at the University of Georgia in Athens, Ga.; April 30—N.C. State,
there; May 1—The State Tournament at Chapel Hill; May 2—University of North Carolina, there (tentative).

CHRIST NEEDS NEW LEADERS
Union Theological Seminary, Richmond, Virginia. (A Serial Advertisement)
To the Christian Students of Davidson College:
You speak of having accepted Jesus Christ. That is true in a sense. It is more true that He has
accepted you—selected you for His service in order that you may receive good and do good. You are His recruits.
Recruits enter the United States Army, some through enlistment offices, others, the leaders, through the Academy at West Point. You
are the West Pointers of the Church, specially selected, with unusual privileges and likewise extraordinary responsibilities. You are to become
leaders in His army. (To be continued in this space later). (If you would like to see this entire series
in one setting, write for a copy to Ben R. Lacy, Jr., President, Union Theological Seminary).

NEW MEMBERS INITIATED (Continued from Page 3)
High into the air soared molasses, flour, and eggs, as doors were slammed and locked in seven dormitories. Later on
this same evening, February 27, these men were initiated into the “D” Club in the gymnasium: Quick, Cathey R.; Morrow,
J.; McClung; Ross, C.; Johnson; Knorr; Williams; McClelland, J.; Dickson, W.; Faison, M.A.; Merchant; Shuford; Gaslen; Lafferty, M.; Dyerly; Knox;
Harris; Stevens; Loftin; Morrow, R.; Taylor, M.; Griffin; Parker; Corbin; Erwin; Snow, W.; Dees; Archer; Cowen; Dickson, J.; Hunter; Benfield;
Dennis; Hornbeck; Peabody; Branson.

(Continued from Page 3)
They will have their weekend trips and the occasions that they will remain on the campus (when the weather map
shows a tempest or earthquake) planned weeks ahead.

For mildness, for better taste.
