Page Six THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 21, 1936

Expect Large Crowd Nov. 7

Fred Smith, Alumni Secretary, announced Monday that he expects 400 men to be present for the annual Alumni Luncheon to
be held Saturday, November 7, at 12:30 o'clock in the college banquet hall. The speaker for the occasion has not
yet been chosen, but will be at an early date. With the football game, Alumni Features, Fraternity Banquets, and the
dances of that weekend, a big Homecoming celebration is anticipated. Because of the hearty approval with which the V. M.
I.-Davidson feature will be received...

LOCAL BOSSES (Continued from Page 1)

...high spirited campaign to return the nation to sanity. For championing the party’s cause by dormitories, the organizing has been
undertaken by devoted henchmen as follows: Georgia, Bob...

AMONG THE GREEKS (Continued from Page 3)

...were present: Blevins Vogler, Winston-Salem; Mary Louise McLendon, Marjorie Pye, Dorothy Clendenin, Ruth Whalen, Joybelle Wheeler, and Helen Bell, Greensboro;
Virginia Shaver, Christine Cook, Alice Wright Murphy, Salisbury; Jane Wiley, Betty Shull, Hannah Knowlton, Jane Ellen Taylor, Nancy Hovis, Madeline
Catherine, Emily Dunlap, and Patsy Tingley, Charlotte; Concord; Mud Creek, and...

PHI DELTA THETA

There is a Friday night at the and B of the were present made short talks. Allen Duke-Tech game and
Westall went to Asheville...

SIGMA PHI EPSILON—Pledge Dickson and Brother Harris were in Greensboro. Pledges Fitzgerald and Harbin went to Crewe, respectively. Entertained in
Brother Fant; Rumple Major Clark; North, R. C. Grabb; Swede; John Eagles Nest; Brother Jeff went to Atlanta the past
correcting the rumor that he spent the previous weekend in Cornelius as he had remained in...

...Palmer will conduct a multi-band in “We're in the Money” and other appropriate melodies, much to the enlightenment of the
Landonites and also to the New Dealers, for that matter.

New Dealers Organize

Chairman Sugg, in a statement to the press, promised a fast-clipping campaign that would roll up a large election. The
organization as it stood at 8 o'clock Mc- per man, for h D. Roosevelt. Veteran and patronage Ward Bosses Crooks,
musical impresario from way-back will have charge of the instrumental variety of support. The organization has extended to every floor
for the Democrats are Bill Bros Moseley; Latimer; West, John Harr North, Git Watson Street. Sugg further pr...

NEW ADVISORY (Continued from Page 3)

...substitute for absent members of the first week are: John Brown, Douglas Frieze, and Vowle. The faculty advisors had their
first meeting with the students on the third day. The advisors helped during the first week in various ways, but
their objective is to help freshmen get settled in their new quarters. After each set of lectures held in Chambers
Auditorium, the student advisors held open discussion groups with their men to answer any questions that may have arisen. Both
of the advisors, student and faculty, are supposed to continue to function throughout the year, and not just for the
orientation week.

DAVIDSON AND CITADEL (Continued from Page 4)

...of Captain Townsend and Davis—ends; Rogers and Therrell—tackles, Smith and Harshbarger—guards, and John Miller—center. This game will be the test
to ascertain whether Davidson's complete annihilation of V. M. I. was caused by taking advantage of early game breaks or
whether Lafferty, Sears, Armfield, Corbin, and Dennis behind a hard-charging line are going to make football history in the Carolinas.

BLUE DEVILS TRAMPLE (Continued from Page 4)

...Ace left and tossed Duke's. Duke's dropped the toss through the arms of Johnston. Tech came back with her trick
bag wide open. An on-side kick of 20 yards was recovered by Tech's star, Dutch Konn. Failing to go through
the line, Appleby stood unnoticed on the sidelines and snagged a sleeper from Fletcher Sims for the...

...Duke dominated the play but breaks always stopped them. Thrice they lost a first down by less than a foot.
On the last play of the game, when a Duke blocker missed him, the Tech safety man stopped Johnston from
what seemed a sure score. Standouts for Duke include Tal Hill, Brunansky, Tipton, and greatest of all—Captain Parker. For Tech,
the performers were Sims, Preston, Nixon, Appleby, and Hays. Stats gave Tech an edge, but first...

NINE STUDENTS ARE (Continued from Page 1)

...Phi honor society, Sigma Delta Pi, Spanish honor society, Phi Delta Theta, social fraternity, Sigma Phi Epsilon, social fraternity, and...

...Scott carried on the council. He is a member of Sigma Upsilon, Sigma Phi, Patterson Court of Control, and the
Student Council, and the German honor society, Delta Phi Alpha. He is also a member of Phi Gamma Delta social
fraternity. Thurston is on the football team, is the vice president of the senior class, and is an assistant in
sociology.

REV. McSWEEN LEADS (Continued from Page 1)

...thing that the Lord would say we lacked. Dr. McSween, a former president of the Presbyterian College of South Carolina,
and an enthusiastic alumnus of Davidson College, having graduated in the class of 1910. His cordial reception Sunday night was
indicative of the fact that he is well known and popular among the Davidson students.

COLLEGE PHARMACY HOLDS (Continued from Page 3)

...man class found himself the proud possessor of the blanket. The occasion for all of these festivities was the formal
reopening of the College Pharmacy. During the summer the store was redecorated and enlarged.

Wildcat 1937 Grid Schedule

The 1937 schedule as announced today, follows:
Sept. 18—North Carolina State at Greensboro.
Sept. 25—Erskine at Davidson.
Oct. 2—Duke at Davidson.
Oct. 9—V. M. I. at Lexington.
Oct. 16—S. C. at Columbia.
Oct. 22—Centre at Danville, Ky.
Oct. 30—Furman at Davidson.
Nov. 6—N. C. at Davidson.
Nov. 13—Harvard at Cambridge.
Nov. 25—Wake Forest at Wake Forest.

Coed “Printer’s Devil” In Father’s Office

Bloomington, Ind.—(ACP) Six years a devil! That isn’t the title of a book. It's just a segment-sentence description of the
kind of life Mary Ann Wynkoop, freshman at Indiana University, has been living for the last half dozen years. Before
coming to college, she did all kinds of odd jobs around the offices of the Lebanon, Ind., Daily Reporter, where
her father serves as city...Editor,

Even though she is the first coed ever to enroll in the linotype operating class, conducted in the printing shop
of the University Press, Miss Wynkoop is right at home, for she has been a “printer's devil” ever since she
was 12 years old.

BRANCH TO BE (Continued from Page 5)

assisted and will continue to advise the club.

Business

Then a committee, consisting of Mrs. C. W. Seifert, Daymond Turner, and Pete McKnight was appointed to arrange for the
programs during the coming year. The club decided that in the near future new members would be taken in. After
the discussion of one or two other matters, the meeting was adjourned and it was decided to hold regular meetings
of the club every other Wednesday at 7:15 in Shearer Hall.

PLACEMENT BUREAU (Continued from Page 5)

There is hardly a profession or calling of any sort that does not have at least one representative who is
a Davidson alumnus. Faculties of many educational institutions are brightened by Davidson men. You have but to look at the
employee rolls in big business and private enterprise to see the names of many men who left the campus of
Davidson College to meet with success in the world outside.

The depression from which we are slowly recovering was a trying time for many Davidsonians who were well qualified for
business careers. Many men who had good jobs had a hard time holding them. Many others who had good jobs
lost them through no fault of their own. Those men who had graduated during the early '30s particularly had a
hard time getting placed, and some of these men are not permanently placed yet.

For this reason, Fred Smith, the new alumni secretary, has formed the Davidson College Placement Bureau this fall. It is
more or less experimental in nature and its success will be gauged by the response of the alumni who know
of worthy men available for jobs. So, come on, you Davidson men who have met with success in the world,
show some of your Davidson loyalty and at the same time profit by it. Let’s make a success of this
new Placement Bureau, which is bound to prove to be one of Davidson College's most valuable organizations if given the
proper aid and backing.

Do you have a place in your office or business for a Davidson graduate trained for certain work? Perhaps you
need an expert accountant, a bookkeeper, a salesman, or an engineer. Perhaps there is an opening in your community for
a thoroughly trained young doctor or lawyer.

Guest Speakers For Vespers Announced

Sunday, Oct. 18—Dr. John McSween, Chester, S. C.
Sunday, Oct. 25—Dr. Edgar J. Gammon, Charlotte, N. C.
Sunday, Nov. 1—Dr. Charles F. Myers, Greensboro, N. C.
Sunday, Nov. 8—Rev. Pharr, Cass, W. Va.
Sunday, Nov. 15—Dr. C. M. Richards, Davidson, N. C.
Sunday, Nov. 22—Sacred Concert by Symphonic Band and Glee Club.

Do you, yourself, want a new job or a change in location? Possibly you know of some Davidson graduate who
wants a change to a new location. If you know of an opening or want to fill one yourself, write
to the Placement Bureau, care of the Alumni Office, Davidson, North Carolina, and the new department can perhaps aid you.
Your name will be put on file and given to interested persons who may write to this office. It is
believed that when the bureau gets into full swing there will be numerous opportunities for new jobs and the names
of many men eager to take new work. The service is free to all alumni.

Misses Agnes Brown and Dorothy Johnston, both attending U.N.C. Chapel Hill, spent the weekend with their parents.

Mrs. T. H. Shipman of Brevard came Friday to visit her sister, Mrs. J. R. Withers. She will be here
a week or ten days.

PHI GAMS WIN (Continued from Page 4)

The Phi Delts and K.A.’s will rely on veteran material, while the Pi K.A.’s will aid the Phi Delts.

A TRADITION OF COLLEGE MEN JOHNSTON’S BARBER SHOP ————FOUR OUT OF FIVE COME HERE

CAT-NIPS (Continued from Page 4)

Remarks to the effect that Davidson was a wolf in sheep's clothing. Calling the case another Key affair (you remember
that California incident), the question was raised as to whether Charlie Sears wasn't the same Sears who starred for Shenandoah
Academy. The answer was swift—a unanimous ruling by the Southern Conference that Sears was eligible. More than eligible, he'll be
dynamite Saturday.

We don’t play Citadel in 1937, so let's beat the Bulldogs good to cut the rumors they are getting too
tough for us!

FOUNTAIN PENS (Continued from Page 3)

The famous coaches: Glenn S. (Pop) Warner, Temple; Howard Jones, Southern California; Elmer Layden, Notre Dame; Frank Thomas, Alabama. The
Board was organized after the death of the late Walter Camp in 1924. Since that time, its selections have been
universally accepted as official by coaches, sports editors, and the football public.

JUNIORS, SOPHOMORES (Continued from Page 4)

Red for the sophomores and Casali and Marion looked good for the losers. The season will end this week with
the playing off of two tie games, one between the juniors and seniors and the other pitting the sophomores against
the juniors.

PLAY BY SHAKESPEARE (Continued from Page 1)

Malone. These boys were all chosen in the competitive tryouts held last Tuesday night in the Eumenean Hall. A one-act
mystery play will be presented at the same time, entitled “The Real ‘Q’.” It contains only three characters: the Doctor,
the Detective, and the Thief. Wade Barrow plays the part of the doctor, A. Hackley the part of the detective,
and Sam Spencer the part of the thief. The action in this play turns on the mistaken identity of the
person whom the detective and the thief suppose to be the doctor.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE (Continued from Page 1)

Mr. F. L. Jackson, treasurer of the college, will be the speaker upon that occasion. The delegates will attend the
football game between the Duke freshman team and the Davidson Wildkittens, or will return to Charlotte, where they will be
given free admission to the motion picture theatres. The main banquet of the convention will be Friday night in the
Hotel Charlotte ballroom. It will be followed by a dance there.

Saturday morning will bring the final business session, which will then be followed by the adjournment of the convention.

NEW R.O.T.C. POSTS (Continued from Page 3)

Pass the necessarily rigid physical examinations, duty as flying cadets in the Army, Navy, and Marine Corps.

SPECIAL TO STUDENTS ONLY —AT THE— LITTLE PEP WAFFLES AND DRINK 15c Thursday Only — Present This Slip

And that’s the whaleman’s signal for a smoke on land and sea, from coast to coast... with millions of smokers,
men and women... when they take time out to enjoy a cigarette it’s “Smoke-O... pass the Chesterfields.” Chesterfields are milder...
and what’s more they’ve got a hearty good taste that leaves a man satisfied.
