SOPHOMORE DANCES ENGAGE ATTENTION OF STUDENT BODY

ALENDA LUX UESIT ORTA LIBERTAS

The Davidsonian

VOL. XXIV DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., DECEMBER 2, 1936

PATRONIZE THOSE WHO ADVERTISE IN THE DAVIDSONIAN

NO. 11

IRON MEN ROUT DEACONS

M. WALKER GUEST AT SUNDAY VESPERS

Story of David and Bathsheba Used as Background For Discussion

“Confession and Forgiveness” was the theme of the sermon by Rev. Dr. J. M. Walker at the vesper service Sunday evening, November 28. The minister used the story of David and Bathsheba as background for his discourse. The text was II Samuel 12:13: “And David said unto Nathan, I have sinned against the Lord. And Nathan said unto David, The Lord also hath put away thy sin; thou shalt not die.”

David's Sin

The story of David's sin, in which a glorious, God-serving reign is followed by such an abominable sin, is one of the most pitiable in all literature. The minister outlined the steps in David's decline. First, becoming very rich, he jumped to the very natural conclusion that he could do no wrong. He became sensual. Next, he began to let Joab do his fighting, while he remained in the luxury of Jerusalem. It still is true, Dr. Walker said, that “an idle brain is the devil’s workshop.” And lastly, David took the unlawful look, in which he saw the beautiful woman bathing. He had her brought to him. David’s whole trouble, according to Dr. Walker, came from his trying to cover up his sin. He tried many ruses to lay the blame upon Uriah, Bathsheba’s husband, but all of them failed. At last David had Uriah killed in battle, in order that the King’s sin might not appear. During all this time, said the minister, David was living in hell.

Man Can Weaken

“Every man has his ladder down to hell,” he said, and he pointed out that if a king, a God-fearing king, can weaken, so can ordinary people. He asked also that the people of today be careful that acquaintance with sin not blind them to the hideousness of it. “And the thing that David did was displeasing to the Lord.” And so God sent Nathan, the prophet, to David with the parable of the rich man with many sheep and the poor one with only one lamb. When David condemned the rich man for his action in the story, Nathan showed him that he had condemned himself. And Nathan warned him, “The hand of the Lord will be heavy upon you.”

(Continued on Page 6)

FRESHMAN RIDES BIKE 150 MILES TO SCHOOL

Bill White Cycles From His Home in Abbeville, S. C. in Two Laps

Bill White, a member of the Freshman class, has ridden his bicycle from his home in Abbeville, S. C., up to Davidson in two laps, a total of 150 miles.

When Bill went home the weekend of the Furman game, he decided he would ride his bicycle back to school. Starting Sunday afternoon at 1 P. M., he rode as far as Carlyle, S. C., a total of 67 miles, by 8:30 P. M. It was necessary for him to store it there and to catch a bus back to school in order to meet his Monday classes. Three weekends passed before he was able to go back to Carlyle and get it out of storage. Last Saturday afternoon, however, he “bummed” down to Carlyle and started back to Davidson at about 6 P. M. His average speed was around 10 miles an hour. Because of high winds, Bill had to stop in Pineville until it had quieted down a bit before continuing his jaunt. After much energy spent in facing the wind, he arrived in Charlotte about 2:30 A. M. At 4 A. M., he arrived on the Davidson campus, making this trip of 83 miles, to complete the 150-mile jaunt. Bill White is quite a cyclist. While at home, it wasn’t infrequent that he made trips by bicycle to points quite far away.

THIS WEEKEND DOMINATED BY AWAITED SOPHOMORE DANCES

FRENCH GROUP TAKES NEW MEMBERS AT THIRD MEET OF YEAR

Varied Program Given Meeting Held at Home of Dr. Goldiere

At the home of Doctor and Mrs. A. V. Goldiere, Le Cercle Francais held its third meeting of the year Tuesday evening, Nov. 24. The meeting was called to order by President John Winn. Secretary Frank Poe called the roll and read the minutes of the last meeting, after which these two officers initiated a class of eight associate members who were selected recently on the basis of comprehensive examinations. The installation ceremonies were followed by an illuminating talk in French by Jean Rostan on Valdese, its French settlers, their history and industries. Jack Tillotson and S. C. Crane presented with great success the familiar comic dialogue Dans une rue de province. They appeared in picturesque peasant costume.

The next feature was a debate in French on a topic of great interest, “Que Davidson College devrait permettre a ses etudiants l'emploi d’automobiles” (Davidson College should allow the use of automobiles by its students). Wade Barrow, captain of the affirmative team, spoke first, displaying fluency and Gallic wit. He was supported by J. R. McClelland and John Reisner. R. A. Torrey, captain of the negative team, gave a brilliant exposition of the arguments against the use of automobiles, being ably seconded by his colleagues, John Raynal and Terrell Porter. The judges announced difficulty in making their decision; the affirmative team having the better delivery and arguments and the negative team the better organization. Accordingly, each team was awarded a prize. The members then were given a mimeographed sheet containing thirty true and false statements in reference to French history, geography, politics, literature and grammar. A. R. Cates received the first prize, having the high score of 25 correct answers, being followed by President Winn and Secretary Poe with 24. During the business session which followed, the casts of the two comedies which will be presented publicly were announced. They are as follows:

Bob McClelland and Miss Sutherland to Lead Figures

The Sophomore Class will present its edition of the annual Sophomore Class Dances on Friday and Saturday nights. The lead article this issue will be the renowned Jelly Leftwich and his orchestra. Each year the campus waits expectantly for Sophomore Weekend for to the whole student body as well as the second-year class this is a time for true merry-making with the Christmas holidays at last a reality near at hand. More than the usual amount of interest has been manifested this fall with the approach of this set due to the fact that the student body has caught the spirit of the occasion and rises en masse to meet it. The Sophomores will present the first tea dance of the year in this weekend set of three dances. Friday night dancing will begin at ten o'clock and last until two, with intermission at 12 o'clock, lasting half an hour. The conventional black and white of formality is to be the order of dress Friday evening. The tea dance will be given Saturday afternoon from 4 until 6.

(Continued on Page 6)

Y CABINET ANNOUNCES CHRISTMAS GIFT PLAN

Money to Be Used to Install Electric Plant in Congo Mission

The Y. M. C. A. cabinet recently decided that this year’s Christmas Gift Fund should go toward installing an electric plant in Mofoto Hospital and the Morrison Bible School, at Mutoto in the Belgian Congo. The Morrison Bible School was founded in 1918 by Dr. William M. Morrison, a pioneer worker in the Belgian Congo. At present the school has an enrollment of 105 and this number seems to be increasing all the time. The school teaches natives of all ages. They take entire families and endeavor to teach them according to their needs.

The hospital is in charge of Dr. Plumer Smith. Last year alone, more than 10,000 cases were treated, and since that time there has been an increase over that number. The hospital has 44 beds and these remain full all of the time. The hospital in particular suffers from a lack of electric lighting. Operations in the daytime are very difficult, and none are attempted at night unless the case is a very urgent one. In case of an emergency at night, work must be done by the light of kerosene lamps, which are very dangerous because of the ether used in the work.

There are three Davidson alumni connected with this work, which gives it an added interest for Davidson students. They are Rev. Mr. C. L. Crane and Mr. William Worth.

It is an annual custom for the Y. M. C. A. cabinet to raise this Christmas Gift Fund from the members of the student body, and contribute it to some worthy cause, either at home or abroad. These gifts range from $300 to $1,000. Last year it amounted to $600, and this year the cabinet hopes to raise $800, which would take care of the entire cost of the plant. Frank Brown, a member of the Y Cabinet in charge of this work, is organizing a campaign to raise the money.

MUSICAL GROUP TO PERFORM ON FRIDAY

Will Begin at 8:00 o’Clock and End in Time For Sophomore Dances

The Davidson College Glee Club and Symphonic Band will present a musical program in Chambers Auditorium, Friday night, December 4. This program will begin promptly at 8 o'clock and will be completed in approximately one hour, thus allowing the students ample time for attending the Sophomore dances in Charlotte. In addition to the numbers presented by the Glee Club and the Symphonic Band, there will be several selections by the quartette and string trio. The music organization has regularly presented one home concert each year; this year, however, the organization plans to present two, one to be given each semester.

Harding To Conduct His Classes At Home

Dr. C. R. Harding, who has been in the hospital in Charlotte for the past three weeks, returned home this last weekend. Dr. Harding will be confined to his bed for at least ten days. He will conduct his classes in Greek at his home, arrangements for which have been made. The entire student body rejoices in knowing that Dr. Harding will soon be back occupying his classroom.

BLACK KEYS INDUCT ELEVEN SOCIALITES IN RECENT MEETING

Breeden, Corbin, Fryfogle, McClelland, Patterson Seniors Initiated

PLAN FOR HOUSEPARTY

Juniors, Two Sophomores Taken In

The Black Keys initiated eleven new members atits last meeting. The Social Club also voted to have the Sophomore and make plans for a future. The eleven initiates are: Abell, Tom Breeden, Tom Corbin, Billy Crooks, Bob Florence, Kenneth Fryfogle, Elmore Holt, Chubby King, Ralph McClelland, Russell Patterson, and Bailey Williams.

Officers of the Black Keys for this year are: Ed Armfield, president; Bobby Peters, vice-president; and Joe Hunter, secretary. Membership in the organization is limited to twenty-one upperclassmen, exhibiting qualities of leadership, congeniality, and good fellowship. It sponsors several social functions each year and in general tries to promote a feeling of goodwill on the campus. The club was founded a year and a half ago, supplanting the Country Gentleman Club as the dominant social club on the campus.

WILSON ANGEL SINGS IN SECOND CONCERT
Fourteen Selections Featured On Excellently Directed Program

Wilson Angel, noted singer, appeared in Chambers Auditorium on November 24 in the second of the Davidson Concert Series. Mr. Angel delighted a very interested and attentive audience with a program which featured variety. It was the singer's second appearance on the Davidson concerts. The program, which was interesting throughout, was featured by Mr. Angel's excellent diction and the passages which he sung in mezzoforte and good impersonations of Joel Dante Camille from di Sen voce. Although the scheduled program listed fourteen selections, Mr. Angel was called back for five encores. The most enjoyable and outstanding of his encores were “Shortnin’ Bread” and “Sweet Little Jesus Boy.” The accompaniment for the program was played by Louise Nelson Pfohl. The program was as follows: Invocazione di Orfeo, Occhietti, Amati, Falconieri; Where'er You Walk, Handel; Novembre, Tremisot; Chanson de Route, Puget; Avant de Quitter Ces Lieux from “Faust,” Gounod; Leezie Lindsay, arranged by Fritz Kreisler; Believe Me, If All Those Endearing Young Charms, Old English; Little Irish Girl, Herman Lohr; Serenade, Toselli; Sweet Song of Long Ago, Ernest Charles; The Bended Bridge, John Sacco; I Love Life, Maria Zucca.

DR. LINGLE ATTENDS MEET AT RICHMOND
Will Be Business Meeting With Few Addresses to Be Delivered

TO SPEAK ON WAY BACK
Graham and Few to Speak to Different Groups

On Thursday and Friday of this week, Dr. Walter L. Lingle will attend a meeting of the Southern Association of Colleges and Secondary Schools, which is to be held in Richmond, Va. Davidson College is a member of this association. This is to be, for the most part, a business meeting with a few inspirational addresses interspersed. The various committees and commissions of the association have been in session during Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday of this week. The annual dinner of the association will be held on the evening of December 3 at 6:30 P.M. The association will adjourn to historic Williamsburg for lunch on Friday. On Thursday afternoon at 3 o'clock, there will be a meeting of all presidents of member institutions of the Southern Athletic Conference. Dr. Frank P. Graham will preside over this meeting. At that time, there will be discussions (Continued on Page 2).

THANKSGIVING DANCE CELEBRATES VICTORY
Jack Wardlaw’s Orchestra Plays and Features Two Girl Singers

Featuring Jack Wardlaw and his famous orchestra, the “D” club sponsored its first dance Thanksgiving night as a close to a brilliant day for the Davidson students and team. Although they lost, the Wake Forest team attended the dance as the guests of Davidson and appeared to enjoy immensely the beautiful music rendered both “sweet and hot” and the two lovely singers. The latter singers, Kittie Nowland and Elsie Cooper, frequently combined with one of the players to do selections the Boswell sisters were wont to do, and if you shut your eyes, you would think the sisters were harmonizing. About halfway through the dance, everybody was requested to form a “U” with the dancers facing towards the band. Then the leader introduced a man who had only come with the band as a personal favor to the orchestra conductor. He was an impersonator, and at the request of the girls and boys, he did Penner, Bing Crosby, Ed Wynn, Boake Carter, and many others. Another novelty number was Cab Calloway Jr., a negro tap dancer, who, though not feeling very well, really did tap when the dancers threw coins at his feet. The band played many request numbers, and the dancers only stopped for a fifteen-minute interval at eleven-thirty. There were three no-breaks, the second one being for the “D” club members exclusively, and red paper streamers hung from the chandeliers, huge red cardboard “D’s” decorating the sides, and two pictures of the football team, one on the wall and the other above the door, gave a football-like atmosphere. Another huge illuminated “D” was placed at one end of the room over the orchestra's head. The dance was held from nine until one o'clock and was informal.

19-6 ARMFIELD, LAFFERTY SCORE AS DAVIDSON WINS IMPRESSIVELY
Wildcats Play Magnificent Football to Defeat Traditional Rivals in Thanksgiving Day Classic; Generate Most Power of Season

Displaying some of the most brilliant football ever seen on Richardson Field, the Davidson Wildcats wound up their gridiron season by completely annihilating a favored Wake Forest eleven, 19 to 6. The score does not begin to show the power generated by the hard-fighting ‘Cats whenever a score was in the offing.

PETITION FOR GIRLS TICKETS CONSIDERED BY ATHLETIC COUNCIL
Privilege Granted For Wake Forest Game; Future Policy To Be Decided

No permanent action has been taken on the petition the student body submitted to the Athletic Council last week regarding girls’ tickets, but the petition and the action of the student body was received favorably by the council, according to Norman Shepard, director of athletics. As a result of the petition, girls’ tickets were granted to the students at the usual half price for the Thanksgiving Day game, but this was only a temporary measure for that game only. Permanent action will be taken at a meeting of the council sometime before next year, at which time the petition of the student body will be given careful consideration. Coach Shepard also emphasized the fact that the selling of girls’ tickets was not temporarily continued in order that the Athletic Council might make more money, but because some few had begun to abuse the privilege by buying tickets at the reduced price and re-selling them or using them for others than their girlfriends. The girls’ tickets are not supposed to be used for parents, sisters, or male friends. According to the petition, which was submitted to the Athletic Council with the unanimous approval of all members of the student body who were present when the petition was voted on, the student council assumes the responsibility of seeing that no further abuses of the aforementioned type occur. A copy of the petition as it was presented appeared in the last issue of The Davidsonian.

Organ Recital Played Sunday By Prof. Pfohl

Prof. James Christian Pfohl, head of the Davidson College Music Department, presented an organ recital in Chambers Auditorium, Sunday afternoon, Nov. 29. Prof. Pfohl opened his recital by playing “Chorale” by Kirnberger. Then “An- Fugue in C Major” was rendered, followed by Bach’s “Prelude and Fugue in C Major.” After these numbers, Prof. Pfohl played “Noel from Byzantine Sketches” by Malet. The concluding number of the program was the Symphonic Chorale “Ach, Bleib Mit Deiner Gnade” by Sigfrid Karg-Elert.

Church In Rock Hill Hears Davidson Men

Two members of the Davidson Y. M. C. A., Sidney Crane and Archer Torrey, were guest speakers at the Young People’s Meeting of the Presbyterian Church in Rock Hill, Monday night. The two deputants had as their subject, “Some Phases of Foreign Missions.” Their audience was made up largely of Winthrop College students who are members of the young people’s organization. The Y. M. C. A. also plans to send a deputation to the Banks Presbyterian Church in Marvin, N. C. next Sunday evening. Rev. Mr. Copeland of Davidson is pastor of this church. This will be a musical deputation. This deputation plans to put on a thirty-minute program of sacred music. Members of the group have not yet been decided upon.

The Deacons drew first blood in the opening quarter. After three attempts to crack the sturdy Davidson line had netted a two-yard loss, Daniel dropped back to kick. Recovering a bad pass from center, he skirted left end, picked up several interferers, and ran 60 yards to score. The try from placement was blocked. Lafferty made a beautiful 45-yard return of the kick-off, but this went for naught when a fumble gave Wake Forest the ball in Davidson territory. Lafferty intercepted a long pass on the 10-yard line and, aided by beautiful blocking by Corbin, got up to the 35. On first down, Dennis took the ball from “Teeny” on the famous “hip play” and dashed 55 yards around right end behind a horde of Wildcat interferers. In two plays, Lafferty had crossed the goal-line on a beautiful off-tackle dash. Yentz Johnston barely missed the try for extra point.

Drive 59 Yards For Score

Before the second quarter was over, the Wildcats began another irresistible march. Starting on the Deacon 41, they drove to the winning touchdown. Lafferty ran to the right, turned, and then threw a perfect pass back to the left to Dennis who scampered to the 17. After two plays failed, Teeny made a first down on the Deacon 7. He skirted left end to score standing up on the next play. When it appeared that he was trapped behind the line, Teeny turned on a little more of his blinding speed and left the Deacon tacklers far behind.

Armfield Scores on Kickoff

All doubts as to the outcome of the game were settled by Ed Armfield who grabbed the opening kickoff of the second half and ran 95 yards to score. The Red and black-shirted gladiators executed almost perfect blocking to clear a large hole in the center of the field through which Armfield raced full steam ahead.

Wake Forest, aided by the ac- (Continued on Page 4)

FRAT MEETING HELD IN NEW YORK HOTEL
Ed Armfield, Carl Carlson, and George Norfleet Represent Davidson

Ed Armfield, Carl Carlson, and George Norfleet left Davidson last Thursday night to go to New York as representatives of the Davidson College fraternities at the National Interfraternity Conference held at the Hotel Commodore on Friday and Saturday, November 27 and 28. Invitations were extended to 105 colleges to send undergraduate delegations to the annual meeting, and more than 35 schools were represented. The program consisted of addresses and directed discussions concerning topics of vital interest to the social fraternities. The principal speakers were Harold J. Baily, chairman this year, and Dr. Alvan E. Duerr, past chairman.