CHAPMAN WINS RHODES AWARD IN COMPETITION

The Davidsonian

VOL. XXIII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., JANUARY 8, 1936 NUMBER 12

Orchestra and Glee Club Render Christmas Hymns; Port Reads Scripture

ANNUAL SERVICE ON AIR

Audience Participates In Singing Of Many Carols

The Y.M.C.A. Christmas Vesper Service was presented by Davidson College Sunday, December 15, before a large audience. This service was
heard by a larger crowd than has ever before attended a service in the new Chambers Auditorium. A new feature
of this service was the playing of Christmas Carols by a brass choir on the balcony in the front of
Chambers Building before the service. Above this balcony was a beautiful Moravian Star which was made in Germany.

The service was opened by the prelude “Lift Up Your Heads,” from the “Messiah” by Handel. This was followed by
a number by the Glee Club, “Lo, How a Rose E’er Blooming,” by Praetorius. Harvey Glass then led in prayer
and this was followed by the hymn, “O, Come All Ye Faithful.” Tyler Port then read the first part of
the Scripture, The Prophecy, which was followed by appropriate music by the quartet. The second part of the scripture, The
Birth, was followed by a selection by Donald Pfohl and the Glee Club, “O Holy Night,” by Adams. This was
followed by the third part of the Scripture, the Adoration, and an old French carol, “Angels O’er the Fields were
Flying,” sung by the Glee Club. After this, the audience sang several carols. These were, “Joy to the World,” “Silent
Night,” “O Little Town of Bethlehem,” and “It Came Upon the Midnight Clear.” The Band then played the “Hallelujah Chorus”
from the “Messiah” by Handel, and then Dr. Foreman pronounced the benediction.

This annual service was broadcast over station WBT, and many listeners are now sending in complimentary letters on this broadcast.
The Auditorium was beautifully decorated with cedar and candles. This work was done by Albert McClure, secretary of the “Y”.
Franklin Riker, who was to have appeared on the program, was not able to sing because of a bad cold.

Ransom To Lecture On Ideal Of Southern Life

Dr. John Crowe Ransom, professor of English at Vanderbilt University, will lecture in Chambers Auditorium on Tuesday evening, January 28,
using as his subject, “Traditional Southern Life and the Means of Its Preservation.” Dr. Ransom is a well-known American poet
and essayist. His poems appear in most any collection of modern American poetry, and his articles have been published in
many magazines of national importance. He has recently been active as the leader of a group known as Young Southern
Agrarians. The members of this group are interested in the preservation of the Old Southern ideals or way of living
and hope that the South will not undertake to become industrialized. Dr. Ransom, along with Donald Davidson, Frank Owsley, Allen
Tate, and Stark Young, was a contributor to a book on the same idea called “I’ll Take My Stand.” The
following day at a convenient period he will speak to the members of the college English department and any others
who are interested in modern English poetry. He will probably be asked to read some of his own poems at
that time. Dr. Ransom has studied at Oxford as a Rhodes scholar and belongs to the Phi Beta Kappa honorary
fraternity.

Mid-Winter Dances To Be Held Jan. 31 to Feb. 1

The Davidson Mid-Winter Dances will be held in the Charlotte Armory-Auditorium Friday night, January 31, and Saturday, February 1. The
sponsors for the fraternities escorted by the Pan-Hellenic Council members are as follows: Beta Theta Pi, Miss Florence Brittain, Asheboro;
Pi Kappa Alpha, Miss Claudianna Evans, Anderson, S.C.; Kappa Alpha, Miss Mary Elizabeth Sanders, Roxboro, N.C.; Sigma Alpha Epsilon, Miss
Elizabeth Lucas, Greenville, S.C.; Kappa Sigma, Babbie McDowell, Gaffney, S.C.; Pi Kappa Phi, Miss Mary Lib Moore, Charlotte; Phi Gamma
Delta, Miss Katherine Ricks, Jackson, Miss.; Phi Delta Theta, Miss Mary Poyner, Raleigh, N.C.; Sigma Phi Epsilon, Miss Jean Orr,
Charlotte.

OFFICER FACES COURT-MARTIAL

Larceny and Insubordination Charged in Trial of Fields Young

A formal court-martial will try 2nd Lieutenant Fields Young soon, on charges of willful disobedience to a superior officer and
larceny. The charges were preferred by Captain A. L. Bulwinkle, and the case will be tried in the banquet hall
of the Chambers Building at seven-thirty o'clock on Wednesday night, January 8th. The first charge concerning the willful disobedience to
the command of a superior officer embodies two specifications on separate instances concerning November 29 and again on December 2.
The charges state that Lieutenant Young was commanded to report for drill with his company on the two specified days,
and he willfully disobeyed his superior’s command. The second charge states that the accused stole a government pistol caliber 45,
from the College Armory, and as the pistol was there for government use, the accused committed larceny against the United
States. This mock-trial comes as a climax for the course in military law for R.O.T.C. officers, and it is hoped
that this procedure will prove to be a model court-martial. Major Cochrane has been the instructor for this course, and
this court procedure serves as a test for the principles taught in this series of studies. Major C. L. Windham,
president of the court, will preside. His main duties will be to preserve order in the court.

Opening Concert Given By Mrs. Laura Norden

The first concert of the Davidson College Guest Series was presented Monday night by Mrs. Laura Howell Norden, violinist of
Wilmington, accompanied by Mrs. James O. Pfohl on the piano. The program was divided into four parts. The first part
was “Chaconne,” by Vitali-Charlier. The second part was “Partita, E Major,” by Bach-Kreisler. The third part included four numbers. These
were “Kol Nidrei,” by Bruch, “Serenade,” by Schubert-Remenyi, “Romance,” by Svendsen, and “Fantasy,” on Russian Themes, by Rimski-Korsakoff-Kreisler. The last
part included “Alt-Wien,” by Godowsky-Press, “Chant Negre,” by Kramer, “Tango Triste,” by Norden, “At Twilight,” by Burleigh, and “Yuletide,” by
Burleigh.

UP WEEK-END CLIMAXED IN TRIO OF DANCES

Unique Figure Is Led by “Teeny” Lafferty, President of Class of ’38

LEFTWICH LENDS RHYTHM

Attractive Decorations Are In Class Colors of Purple And Gold

The Davidson College Sophomore Class sponsored their annual three dances at the Charlotte Armory-Auditorium December 13 and 14, with the
music of Jelly Leftwich and his orchestra. Sophomore week-end started Friday night, December 13, with a formal dance. This affair
started promptly at ten and continued until two o'clock. The feature of the dance was the unique figure led by
“Teeny” Lafferty, president of the class, and Miss Caddie Willis, of Concord. The Armory was decorated in the motif of
royal purple and gold, the class colors. Suspended from the center of the ceiling was a large revolving mirror reflector
from which streamers went to the sides. A spotlight played on this and during the four no-break dances this furnished
the only light, making a very attractive color arrangement. The figure for the formal was made up of two representatives
from each fraternity, their dates, and four non-fraternity men and their dates. All lights were extinguished except the large spotlight
which played upon an opening in the side streamers. The second affair was a tea dance Saturday afternoon from four
until seven o'clock. The last dance in the series was the informal, Saturday night, from eight-thirty until twelve o'clock. The
orchestra proved the most popular of any that was here last year. Miss Kay Keever, torch singer, who has been
with Leftwich for the past two years made a great hit. The dances were well attended. The nine social fraternities
held open house in connection with this occasion. Outstanding among the many novelty songs played by Leftwich was his waltz
arrangement of “O Davidson” which received many encores. Among the chaperones for the dances were: Mrs. P. H. Arrowsmith, Florence,
South Carolina; Dr. and Mrs. Frazier Hood, Davidson; Mrs. J. S. Lyons, Rogersville, Tennessee; Mr. and Mrs. Grier Martin; Prof.
and Mrs. Burton; W. G. McGavock; Mrs. G. R. Vowles; Dr. and Mrs. G. B. Watts, Davidson; and Mrs. E.
K. Willis, Concord.

“O Davidson” Banned From Radio By Copyright Owners

Dispute Results in Removal of Many Tunes From Air

Davidson College is a college without a song—at least, as far as radio broadcasts are concerned, until special permission can
be obtained. The whole matter is a result of a national conflict which has arisen between publishers and broadcasting systems,
and has been brewingtime. The case of “O Davidson” is not as serious for some as some other theme songs,
such as those of Paul Whiteman, Red Nichols, and Ray Noble. Recently B. S. Shields, '07, the composer of “O
Davidson,” sold the copyright to Thornton Allen, publisher of college songs, and, according to this firm, it has all rights
at its disposal. Therefore, due to the trouble aroused between publishers and broadcasting systems, Columbia will not allow “O Davidson”
to be played on the airways without special permission from the holder of the copyright. Nor will it allow the
broadcast of any other songs in a similar predicament.

JACKSON NAMED DDK VICE-PRESIDENT
Davidson Treasurer Receives Honor At General Council Meeting
SUCCEEDS DR. SNAVELY
Chosen at National Conclave Held In Washington

Mr. Davidson Jackson, treasurer of Davidson College, was named national vice-president of Omicron Delta Kappa, honorary leadership fraternity, in a
general council meeting held in Washington, D.C., on December 6. At this reorganization meeting, Dean Sanders, of Ohio Wesleyan University,
Delaware, Ohio, resigned as national president of Omicron Delta Kappa, due to the fact that he had discontinued college work.
Guy E. Snavely, president of Birmingham Southern, was advanced from vice-president to fill the vacancy. Mr. Jackson, who had been
a member of the council for several years, was then named to fill the open vice-presidency. Dr. William Moseley Brown
retains the office of executive secretary. Other members of the council are Judge Gustave I. Schramm, of Pittsburgh, Penn., Francis
W. Shepardson, editor of the latest edition of Baird’s Manual, and Robert W. Bishop, of Cincinnati, Ohio.

RHODES SCHOLAR H.W. DUBOSE SPEAKS SUNDAY
Minister Is a Prominent Figure in Southern Presbyterian Church

The Reverend Doctor Henry Wade DuBose of Spartanburg, S.C., is to be the guest minister at the regular Sunday evening
Vespers this week, it was announced by President W. L. Lingle. Dr. DuBose is one of the leading figures in
the religious circles of the Southern Presbyterian Church. He is a graduate of the Presbyterian Theological Seminary of Louisville, Kentucky.
Dr. DuBose is a native of Tennessee and received his degree of Bachelor of Arts from Vanderbilt University. He was
ordained to the ministry by the Presbyterian Church of the United States in 1910, and received his degree of Doctor
of Divinity in 1918 from Southeastern College, Memphis, Tennessee. Before coming to Spartanburg as pastor of the First Presbyterian Church,
where he has served since 1923, he was at the First Presbyterian Church of Danville, Virginia, and prior to that
he was located in Mobile, Alabama. Dr. Henry DuBose and Dr. W. L. Lingle are the principal contributing editors of
the Christian Observer, and in this capacity, he is well known.

Meade Bernard, ’33 Meets Death By Fire

David Meade Bernard, Jr., a graduate of Davidson in the class of '33, and his wife Ruth, were suffocated Sunday
morning, January 5, in a fire that destroyed the apartment house where they lived in Washington, D.C. He was employed
by the AAA and was also attending the law school at George Washington University. His home was originally in Jacksonville,
Fla. From there he attended Davidson and upon graduation went to Washington. Bernard was a member of the Kappa Alpha
social fraternity and was also a member of the varsity football and basketball teams.

Several years ago, the Davidson College Athletic Association published “O Davidson,” and obtained the copyright. Since then, the copyright has
expired. Prof. Pfohl assures that Mr. Shields had no intention of causing any embarrassment to the College, but made the
move for its own good. Permission will probably be obtained before the next broadcast, so it may be used as
the theme song at that time.

Literally thousands of melodies and numerous themes have been tied up in a similar way, but by different companies. Due
to the pressure brought on the broadcasting systems, censorship of the music used on all programs has been necessitated. For
some time now, all Davidson College broadcasts have been submitted to the Columbia Broadcasting Studios and passed on two weeks
in advance. The publishers claim that the continuous rendition of music via the airways limits the sales of those tunes.
Much of the Davidson College band music can never be broadcast due to the rulings of the publishers.

The first radio program of the New Year was broadcast last Friday, January 3, from Chambers Auditorium, by Prof. James
C. Pfohl, Donald Pfohl, and the college quartet. Due to the recent sale of the copyright on “O Davidson,” the
theme song was omitted, because of a Columbia Broadcasting System ruling. The theme will be resumed regularly when special permission
is gained from the publishers. Prof. James C. Pfohl began this Friday's broadcast with two organ numbers, “Song Without Words,”
by Tchaikovsky, and “Humoresque,” by Dvorak. Following this, Donald Pfohl, of the sophomore class, rendered two vocal solos, “None But
The Lonely Heart,” by Tchaikovsky, and “On the Road to Mandalay,” by Speaks. Returning to the organ, Prof. Pfohl played
an old Hebrew melody, “Kol Nidrei.” The quartet then continued the program with the familiar melodies, “Drink To Me Only
With Thine Eyes,” and “Auld Lang Syne.” The broadcast was concluded by Prof. Pfohl playing the “Sextette from Lucia,” by
Donizetti.

CARLETON CHAPMAN SELECTED AS ALABAMA RHODES SCHOLAR REPRESENTING SIXTH DISTRICT
President of Student Body Is Seventh Davidson Man To Be Chosen
WILL STUDY AT OXFORD
Competition Is Held in New Orleans on December 16

Carleton B. Chapman, President of the Davidson Student Body, was selected on Dec. 16 as one of four outstanding students
in the sixth district to receive Rhodes Scholarships to Oxford University, England. The candidates were chosen from 12 students by
the district committee at New Orleans on December 16. Chapman, from Talladega, Alabama, was the first candidate to be selected
from that state in two years, and is the seventh Davidson man to win this distinction. In addition to the
signal honor which the scholarship carries, it provides for a stipend of 400 pounds ($1,970) during three years’ study at
Oxford. Chapman will receive his A.B. degree at Davidson in June. He is president of the student body, a member
of Phi Beta Kappa, president of the Davidson chapter of Sigma Upsilon, national honorary literary society; president of Omicron Delta
Kappa, national leadership society, member of Gamma Sigma Epsilon, national honorary chemical fraternity, Eta Sigma Phi, national honorary classical fraternity,
and Deutscher Verein, German club; president of the Phi Delta Theta social fraternity, and is a member of the Davidson
chapter of the YMCA cabinet. The sixth district includes the states of Alabama, Mississippi, Texas, Louisiana, Oklahoma, and Arkansas. Sixteen
men competed at Birmingham on December 12 for the honor of representing Alabama. Of these scholars, two were selected, Chapman
going on to win one of the coveted awards. The students were chosen through short interviews lasting from thirty to
forty minutes. Chapman plans to attend Oxford for two years, taking a B.A. in Physiology, and then return to this
country to complete his medical work and serve his internship. After this, he plans to return to Europe for his
third year, finishing somewhere on the continent. He will practice medicine in this country. Chapman will leave for England in
the latter part of September, the school opening on the ninth of October. He has entered his application at St.
John’s College, Oxford.

Dr. Albert S. Johnson Is Speaker at Vespers

The Rev. Dr. Albert Sidney Johnson, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church in Charlotte, North Carolina, was the guest preacher
at the regular vesper service in Chambers Auditorium last Sunday evening, January 5. Dr. Johnson used as his text two
brief passages from the parable of the prodigal son, found in the fifteenth chapter of Luke: “Give me” and “Make
me.” In discussing his topic, he suggested that these two passages revealed the personality of God as a father who
willingly answers the demands of men. He said that these demands could be used to either good or evil effect:
that we might ask for faith and strength, or for purely selfish things; that we might ask to be made
righteous, or to be made powerful and wealthy. In closing, he suggested that we should use the demands for our
spiritual improvement.
