Should We Reconsider... The recent address by Mr. John Crowe Ransom has made many wonder if perhaps the South did
not fall heir to, at least, no unmixed blessing when she hastened to follow the example of the North in
providing herself with all the comforts of civilization via the fool-proof “machine age,” its philosophy, and its tools.

The Davidsonian - Founded By the Class of 1913
1935 Member 1936 Associated Collegiate Press Distributor of Collegiate Digest
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

From the very earliest times - or at least so we have been instinctively believing since we have been old
enough to take any interest in the matter at all - the region which we know as the “South” has
had its particular variety of civilization winnowed and sifted until it has taken on the aspect of something, if not
in itself unique, still peculiarly adapted to the people that lived in that portion of the American Continent, and by
so much unadaptable and unappreciated by the other “sections” of people in this country. That manner of living, or attitude
toward life and living (for if one thing is certain, it is that those qualities we have in mind when
we speak of the ‘life in the Old South’ are essentially not to be trotted out like any prize-winning mare
and pirouetted around, are indeed rather elusive when we most want to pin them down)—anyone of a number of phrases
might do—has now been found by some thinking men to be perhaps not foredoomed to absolute extinction nor, on the
other hand, do they believe it is doomed because of an inherent fault that is ‘exposed’ by the wonder-working industrial
age.

The group that has expressed itself in no uncertain terms about the advisability of continuing the era of the small
farmer, especially as this “vanishing American” is found in the South, its last home, is known as the Agrarians. They
are shy of “isms” but not because they have some new panacea, some cure-all for the economic ills (that dance
merrily over the eroded hills and dales of the Southland like strange remnants of hangovers). No, for anyone with half
an eye can spell it for himself: a-g-r-a-r-i-a-n-i-s-m. In England, it’s the doctrine of distributism. We might say it’s all
the same difference. But where does it all promise to get us?

For those of you who did not read the report of Professor John Crowe Ransom's speech last Tuesday week in
the paper or hear the lecture, this is a brief statement of the situation we are facing: The farmer has
been exploited ever since the War Between the States—we mean the Southern farmer now particularly—by the capitalists who have fluttered
around the dazzling flame of industrialism that has flared high in the East, and have drunk up all the gain
they could get—oh, very wisely they got it from that section (and the great Southwestern oil fields have obligingly given
their all in the cause, too); now they look for new worlds to conquer, and immediately find the South to
be a plum ripe for the plucking. Capital trickles, then overflows into the South. For some time these men—there are
crusading ladies too—are busy making the South aware of the benefits of civilization “a la” industrialism. Finally, it comes through
to the Southerner’s alert mind that such rich rewards are not entailed to these ‘furriners' and their heirs in perpetuity,
that in reality there is no good reason why, if everybody is going to make money by exploiting the ‘natives,’
they should not be the receivers for this valuable property as well as any dam’ Yankee that ever lived. And
because the Yankee set an admirable record for thorough-going and systematic “milking,” and because no Yankee can outdo a Southerner,
these domestic gentlemen proceed further to educate the people by developing ‘Southern industries run by Southerners’—a phrase which is often
heard and is no doubt provocative of patriotic sentiments. The Southerner intends to show the Yankee something before he gets
through, too.

Sincerest sympathy is extended to Rex J. Beach in the recent death of his mother.

Paragraphics...
The wooden sidewalks put down in the front of Chambers Building were a big help during the terrible mess which
resulted from melting snow.
North and South dormitories could have used some also. They were practically Venetianized by the bad weather.
The wrestling team is apparently on the high road to another state championship. Duke was the first Big Five victim,
and they have reputedly the best in the conference, excepting Davidson. North Carolina State, however, is always good in this
department.

Mr. Hobart, superintendent of buildings and grounds, promises two more snows before winter ends. He bases his forecast on the
fact that there are always as many snows during the winter as there were fogs in the preceding August. There
were six fogs, therefore, we should expect two more snows this winter, having had only four thus far.

The splendid message of Dr. Jordan last Sunday night seemed to awaken his hearers both spiritually and physically. It was
one of the best in the unusual series of inspiring Sunday night sermons.

Suggestions...
We would like to call attention to a small matter which has recently occasioned no little inconvenience to a large
number of students. WHY IS THE BOOK-STORE NOT OPEN LONGER, or at least at more convenient times?

Under the present system it is entirely possible for a student to be in class, in lab, engaged in N.Y.A.
work, or otherwise employed during the whole time that the college book store is open. Naturally, we cannot expect the
faculty to wait until students can find time to visit the store and buy books, even when they are new
ones with no second-handed ones available. With the beginning of the second semester, both professors and students suffered unnecessary delay
because in many cases the undergraduates were actually unable to secure the needed text-books promptly. Now, of course, it is
too late to do anything about it. We do not feel it necessary or advisable for the book store to
remain open at all hours for the rest of the year. But why not profit from past experience. Income from
the sale of texts and school supplies goes to the ‘Societas Fratrum’ loan fund: Income for this worthy cause would
certainly be increased and the need of the student body would be met more adequately if, as several students have
suggested, these books and supplies were sold through the Students’ Store.

Stanford University regulations keep the nearest bar five miles from student beer-drinkers. The pioneer spirit is not yet dead in
New England. Sixty-five co-eds are out for the rifle team at the University of Vermont. Go ahead and sleep. A
CCNY professor of philosophy is quoted as saying those who sleep in class learn more.

DAVIDSON OFF THE RECORD by HAROLD SUGG

FROM OLD CANNON
Often it is the necessity for this penster to work himself up in the ticklish agonies of bringing forth a
little wit and satire. But seldom is it his pleasure to receive such a deliciously biting bit of humor as
is herein printed, a pleasure so acute and a literary letter so admired that the usual column gab is relegated
to Page Six, Column One. It is the reply of one of “them Yankees,” about whom he pondered last week.

DEAR SUGG,
I read with interest your excellent assault on the aborigines who sit above Virginia, and am strictly in accord with
your sentiment that something must be done about this menace to Dixie-Land tranquility. We are supported by the Daughters of
the Confederacy, the Rotary Club of Cornelius, the Stars and Bars Boys (Chapter Three) and Old Black Joe. Some further
propaganda follows:

Cheese guy. Toity Toid, cheeseus, Nu Choisey. As you have attempted to set down the southern reaction to northern enunciation
allow me to present four phrases—evolved in the heads of struggling wit—which our Mason-Dixoner hurls in the very teeth of
the helpless Yank. His originality is apparent and his variety is profuse. He can growl cheese guy as a salutation
every day and still cackle over the ingenuity of his abortive humor. And if he has never been past Washington
there is no power on earth which can halt his fertile imagination. He may even get to the point where
he can tilt his hat, twist his sunburned southern physiognomy into a sneer, whisper Nu Choisey hoarsely from the corner
of his mouth and strut off highly satisfied.

The Yank realizes the poverty of northern linguistic endeavors is due to a total lack of educational facilities. He has
only Harvard, Yale and Princeton to fall back on in contrast to the extensive and well-recognized university centers developed in
the Old South. In dancing, as in the other gentle arts, the Yank must needs sit back and observe Southern
mastery. He has no choice but to admit that there is nothing so divinely graceful, daintily sylph-like, strikingly rhythmic as
the “shag.” Or if he ever has the privilege to attend a square dance, done in the good old Tar
Heel style, he realizes...that he has seen the final Southern tribute to the Muse Terpsichore. Intense pride of state is
my solution for the Southern aptitude to satirize the Yank and make him the butt of his rural imprecations. Some
have hinted that it might be a bad case of inferiority complex and subsequent resentment arising from Northern prosperity or
victory in a rebellion which occurred around 1861. The same type of resentment is felt by a farmer toward the
banker who loans him money, or by a country cousin toward his city relatives. This complex is worked out by
aspersions on Northern custom, habit, dress, and speech, or by other harmless and childish means. But far be it from
me to ridicule the extremes to which a Southerner’s love of homeland can carry him. I think he is to
be respected and admired for being able to work himself into a lather over a strip of barren Utopia which
has nothing to bolster it but tradition and inhabitants. Intellectually, the blue-blood Southerners sneer at the Yankee. Although the Southerner
has no theatre of his own, few authors of merit, despises the Opera and Symphonic Concert, rarely sees a play—and
doesn't like a good one if he should see it—disowns any poetry but Edgar Guest's, has an obnoxious taste in
cinema, a vast contempt for classical music, and ridicules any genius whose name contains more than two syllables, he innately
or perhaps, inanely feels that his culture is superior. One more thing oppresses me, Sugg, old rebel. Is the phrase
blank Yank written as a single word or as two? I know there are two A's in it—as in Appomattox—but
I'm not quite positive about the finer details. Keep after them thar Yankees! —Robert E. Lee Haake.

DEAR ARTHUR, (We know you're only fooling about the “Robert E. Lee” part, for only a few weeks ago one
of your higher and more cultured schools refused a bust of the General on grounds of treason, immorality, unconstitutionality, and
whatnot.) But as I said before, Dear Art:— You must pardon my sublime obliviousness to the cultural and educational institutions
inside the Mason-Dixon corral. You see, we couldn't understand why so many of you boys were abandoning the place, and
just naturally jumped to a conclusion. It is just another of those simple-minded Southern ways of reasoning. But now that
you have shown us the error in our ways, we won't be so rash next time. Perhaps it’s just the
stiff competition up there. Survival of the fittest, you know? Perhaps the Yank is just slimming. Or perhaps (remember that
rebellion?) he is just a glutton for punishment. I must have been too assuming in last week's tirade. After all,
we haven't produced any William Lloyd Garrisons or mortuary Hearsts, and not having any islands to build cities around we
must apologize for our lack of aristocracy. And owing our financial heritage (remember those old-time carpetbaggers?), it is, as you
say, only natural that we owe our cultural heritage (Eddie Guest, born in England, educated in Detroit public schools and
since 1895 connected with The Detroit Free Press). So the Southerner abjectly proclaims Northern literary superiority. Why, how could we
get along without gangster stories and them moll poems we read about? And for linguistics, the Yankee can say “Yassuh,
we ‘uns is sho gwine down yander” without any practice at all. So it seems. So Arthur, you got us
all wrong. We like the Yank, especially his unassuming congenial manner. But about that last paragraph, you wouldn't believe it,
but we are so backward down here that I was 16 years old before I learned damYank was two words.

Yours for States Rights,
U. S. Scott McClellan Burnside Hooker Mead Grant Sugg.

Around Washington

STOLEN THUNDER

“I'd Walk a Mile for a—”... “With a ruler in hand and a bit of inquisitiveness in the other, we
find the following trivia: the cigarettes smoked by the Emory boys and girls in a month would reach if (laid)
end to end, 3.2 miles. Just think of three and two-tenths miles of Luckies, Camels, Chesterfields, etc. Even the ducks
would reach a mile! —Emory Wheel.

Vicious Vocabulary

One of the Brothers was quizzing a sophomore pledge, and in the course of the ordeal he contradicted himself. “That
sounds like a delicate falsification to me,” said the Brother. “Oh, no,” said the excitedly nonplussed pledge. “Just malefaction.”—Daily Tar
Heel.

On With the Show ...

“News item: The various parts of an alleged columnist were found lying around and around in between the several machines
on the first floor of the engineering building. Henceforth this column will be misconducted by one John Cottler.”—Akron Buchtelite.

Morning After...

This squelches them:
Prof.: You missed my class yesterday?
You: Why, no, I didn’t. Not in the least...

And then there was the boy who called his girl “hinges” because she was something to adore.—Hastings Collegian.

‘Purple Cow?’ ...

I've never seen a cord of wood,
I hope I never saw one;
But I can tell you—this is good—
I’d rather see than saw one.
—Reflector.

The New York Herald-Tribune, one of the most vitriolic critics of the administration, in an editorial backs up the Knox
statement, speaking of the nausea induced among Washington newspapermen by the trend of Roosevelt's policies. This is so much applesauce.
First of all, the ordinary columns of Washington news sent to the home papers by the rank and file newsmen
here have not been particularly anti-New Deal. It has been the editorial pages of the papers that have been pounding
away at the Roosevelt policies. Added to this has been the frequently opinionated work of the journalistic big shots, the
special writers and columnists, whose columns, because of the weight their names carry, must obviously not disagree sharply with the
editorials. The workaday newspapermen here are still a long way from being anti-Roosevelt. The personal opinions of many of them
do not jibe at all with the editorial stands of their respective papers concerning Roosevelt. Even assuming that no reporter
here ever has had it brought home to him, either by an edict from his editor, a hint or in
any other direct manner, that his work will be appreciated more if he goes out and digs up a few
good stories about boondoggling, governmental extravagance, and administrative incompetence, still what reporter is unaware of his paper's editorial policy regarding
the New Deal? And what reporter is going to be foolhardy enough not to subordinate his impressions to that of
his paper’s? The news that newspapers take their cue as to policy concerning the New Deal from the reactions of
their Washington correspondents is a new slant on the relation of the reporter and the publisher. The tail is wagging
the dog, if Col. Knox’s claim is true. In spite of the impartial attitude of Col. McCormick of The Chicago
Tribune, Ogden Reid of The Herald-Tribune, Mr. Hearst and Mr. Paul Block, it seems that their minds were changed for
them by the “growing revulsion” of their Washington correspondents to the New Deal, so that now, almost to their sorrow,
they find themselves attacking it. No one here suspected that the average newspaperman, whose influence in the past has usually
not been strong enough with the publisher of his sheet to promote a five-dollar raise, has had so much influence
in making up the publisher’s mind for him on national questions. On the other hand, the Filene charge that “interests”
have used the newspapers against the New Deal needs a great deal of qualification. It is unlikely that deals of
any sort between papers and the “Interests” have been made. What has most likely happened is that the publishers feel
that their future is bound up with big business more than it is with the beneficiaries of Rooseveltian policies. No
single advertiser influences them, but their dependence on the whole body of advertisers undoubtedly does.

Wealth is more equitably distributed among married men than among bachelors, says a recent survey.
