The Davidsonian

Founded By the Class of 1915

1935 Member - 1936 Associated Collegiate Press

Distributor of Collegiate Digest

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY

Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES

Ten cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate year.

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879.

ARTICLES FOR PUBLICATION

must be in the hands of Managing Editors by 4:00 o'clock p.m. Monday. Letters to the Editor are welcome, but all communications intended for publication must be signed.

JIM MORTON ... Editor

R. P. MORROW, JR. ... Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF

Owen Cook ... Managing Editor

Sam Covington ... Managing Editor

Tuck Fant ... Managing Editor

Hector McGeachy ... Managing Editor

Dick Vow ... Managing Editor

Yates Faison ... Sports Editor

Harry Kuykendall ... Associate Editor

Howe Overton ... Associate Editor

Harold Shuc ... Associate Editor

Daymon Turner ... Associate Editor

John Winn ... Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF

Charles Mauze ... Circulation Manager

Bow Vance ... Circulation Manager

Hoke Robinson ... Advertising Manager

Birt Hitte ... Collection Manager

Bint Dyerve ... Assistant Business Manager

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 8, 1936

A word fitly spoken is like apples of gold in pictures of silver. Prov. 25:11.

Paragraphics...

We extend our sincere sympathy to Dr. David Howard and Coach Pete Whittle in their present illness and wish for them a speedy recovery.

* * * *

It is with regret that we learned of Grier Martin’s decision to leave his Davidson post as alumni secretary. We feel that it will be a long time before the faculty can find a man of equal capabilities.

* * * *

The Davidson College Band, during its 1,000-mile tour of the South, was received by appreciative audiences at every engagement. Such hearty receptions bring to light the excellent merits of this organization.

* * *

Our college museum, after complete destruction caused by the burning of Old Chambers, is yearly increasing in the number of objects for display. Much enthusiasm has been shown by members of the faculty and student body in this project and every student should avail himself of opportunities to visit it and contribute toward its improvement.

* * *

“The little, nameless, unremembered acts of kindness and love are the best portion of a good man’s life,” is a truthful adage, and one way of expressing it is by writing at least one letter home each week. It doesn't take much time; your parents appreciate it; and you owe it to them.

Spring Services...

The Y. M. C. A. is particularly fortunate in securing so able a speaker as Carl Pritchett for our annual Spring Services. Pritchett left an enviable record behind him at Davidson, and he is still well remembered on the campus. It is fitting that these services should come during Passion Week, so rich in its associations with the last sufferings and final triumph of our Lord. We could find no better time in all the year for a personal heart-searching, a consideration of the richer, fuller meanings of Christianity. Those who heard the speaker yesterday could not fail to gain an inspiration from his words. Only three more services remain. Let us all turn out and make them successful. Let us make this a true revival of heart as well as of spirit. Then we may return to our daily routine refreshed to carry on the traditions and ideals of a Christian College.

Another War...

THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 8, 1936

Chapters of “the Veterans of Future Wars” have been established in 19 different colleges and universities since the movement's birth at Princeton. This method of satire and ridicule was manufactured to show the absurdity of the Veterans of Foreign Wars, who recently inaugurated a move to have bonuses paid nine years ahead of time and were successful. Patterned after the original VFW, bonuses are to be paid in advance. A manifesto published by leaders of the Princeton group states that “because it is customary to pay bonuses before they are due, the veterans of future wars demand immediate payment of $1,000 plus 3 per cent compound interest annually from June 1, 1956 backward to June 1, 1936." It would be a fine thing for these veterans of future wars to receive some remuneration before the killing.

Vassar girls collaborated with the Princeton undergraduates in this movement by establishing societies of “Gold Star Mothers of the Future." Their aim is to see now the spots where their sons will be buried. The girls at the University of Chicago are already choosing their society emblem. It is to be a blue eagle perched on a crossed hammer and sickle and holding in its beak a swastika and under its wings a fasces. One member of the VFW there is to be chosen Unknown Soldier of Future Wars.

James F. Van Zandt, national commander of Veterans of Foreign Wars, upon hearing of the collegian organization, angrily blurbs: “The students are too yellow to go to war, therefore they'll never be veterans of a future war,” states one college paper. It would be extremely absurd and impractical to ever think students of today would not fight if our country were attacked or an invasion evident. College students seem to comprehend the futility and destructiveness of war better than those who have already received their “baptism of fire.”

High Cost of Frats...

Recently we have heard complaints from parents and the administration concerning the high cost of fraternity life at Davidson. We are convinced that no other college in the country offers the advantages of affiliation with a national fraternity at less cost to its students. However, there is one major item of fraternity expense which we feel could be materially lessened. We refer to the obnoxious RENT which consumes from one-fourth to one-half of every chapter budget. That any organization should be obliged to pay approximately forty-eight dollars a month for a two-room cottage seems, on the face of it, unreasonable.

Of course, light, water, and heat are included in the above charges, no rent is paid for the summer months. And then, too, rental is figured as a reasonable amount of interest on the original investment. The houses were built when general building costs were abnormally high; therefore the initial cost can hardly be considered a true basis for computing interest. Also, there have been eight years for depreciation. Besides, the past few years have seen a general lowering of interest rates throughout the business world. We know of another college town where a new five-room house, near the campus, rents for forty dollars a month. In the same place, a three-room, furnished apartment, light, heat, and water furnished may be obtained for twenty-five! These rentals are considered high! Yet,

Campus Comments

Editor's Note: Student publications are essentially for the purpose of expressing student opinions on the multifarious activities and subjects with which they may be directly or indirectly concerned. Each week a portion of this column will be reserved for a brief letter of commendation or condemnation on subjects pertaining to life at Davidson College. Members of the senior, junior, and sophomore classes will be eligible to submit comments. The student who submits his letter will request another student, eligible for presenting material for this section, to write a letter for the next issue of The Davidsonian. The main activity and name of the author will appear with the letter.

In the past, editors have endeavored to obtain student ideas but the latter have shown a minimum amount of interest in submitting their plans and programs for publication. The lethargy of members of the Davidson student body in this regard necessitates this method of obtaining student opinion on subjects of government, activities, and other questions of paramount importance on our campus.

Sincerely,

JIM MORTON.

P. S.—I request Carleton Chapman, retiring President of the Student Body, to submit a letter for publication in the next issue of The Davidsonian.

DAVIDSON OFF THE RECORD

April Fool—And Yet Once More Into the Breach

As a parting blast of the old staff or withering barrage of the new, in the ebbing number of this weekly flow there appeared an editorial, some forty lines, vigorously contending that the Eu, Phi, Oak, and Elm buildings on the Charlotte highway need their faces washed. Just why one should desire to varnish those old red bricks and turpentine the atmosphere, now redolent with pleasant tradition, we cannot see. The oldness, redness, and ivy vines of the original dormitories and ancient society halls are peaceful contrasts to the eyesores of glaring newness that haven't been rubbed down by less fortunate colleges.

Our Calendar of Habits

There are certain inevitabilities in the business of editorial writing. About a month before the retiring staff is fired by the student body, there appears an editorial on the aching need of a journalism department here. Within two weeks after the new staff comes in there reappears the annual editorial deploring the languishing interest in debating, dramatic and literary activities, etc. About November a panegyric comes forth thanking the shiny new music department for rescuing us from barbarism, and there are others usually predictable. Convention is a furrow plowed by Adam and enchasmed by numberless droves of humanity; he who doesn’t topple into the canyon struggles in rare atmosphere, rocks, and thorns.

Veterans of Future Wars

This satirical flash, conceived at Princeton, rapidly spread to the major universities and is now swelling in the wash of the nation's smaller colleges. A Woman's Auxiliary was organized at Vassar, a shot at the bonus bill that came two months too late.

Upon What Hath Caesar Fed...?

List to the sad tale of one of our social fraternities. They had an affair planned next Saturday with contracts made and ever so many charming little gals expecting to come. On last Friday morning they received permission from the authorized authorities to go ahead. On Friday afternoon the permission was rescinded. There must have been a sudden deluge of protest in the morning mail. Or maybe it was the hurricane that caused this sudden change of minds.

Suggestions

I say, Flip and Dan! The sign above the Student Store reads Student's Store instead of Students’ Store. After all, there are two managers. Cokey keeps calling an important meeting of the freshman class. How could there be an important meeting of the freshman class? And to the retiring or transforming BMOC's who run the elections: Is there really any need to tell us who is on the ballot, to vote for one and sign the ballot?

And the Winds Doth Blow

We don't know what starts a hurricane. Something about hot air and cold air. But Cokey, Johnny Allen, Biscoe Howell, Harvey MacConnell, Dan Griffin, and Buddy...Branton went to Brenau and straightway there was a tornado. We know where the hot air came from. And probably a tornado was needed to blow Johnny out of hiding anyway. Now that spring has come, someone should give Johnny Watkins an umbrella. These showers. Columnist has three pet prejudices: Yankees, Republicans, and Freshmen. Johnny looks like a freshman, talks like a Yankee, and acts like a Republican. Pecadillos... Now that Hauptmann has gone if we can just get rid of Billy Crooks the world will be a fit place. Casanova Harper brings them weeping straight from the shoulder. Echo from J. Speaking: Val should learn what to do with stockings. Sad Note: Harry McGlochlin went to Lynchburg but she had joined the navy. About ten of the lads returned from Florida blushing disgracefully. Sunshine, moonshine, or remorse... Goof Cooke picks them from Reno while Hal Overton picks them from the G. Jerry Harris, Elmore Holt, and Dick Taylor went to visit Mrs. Virginia Beach. They should write a STOLEN THUNDER ‘APPROPRIATE’... The father visited his son at the University and took advantage of his stay to coax the lad downtown to have his picture taken. The photographer, ever seeking to please, suggested that the bright son stand with his hand placed caressingly on his father’s shoulder. “Humph!" sniffed the old gentleman, “it would be a lot more appropriate if his hand were in my pocket."—Ohio State Lantern.

SUPERLATIVE... The meanest man in the world: That fellow who put a tack in the electric chair... And then we know a cute little radio singer who thinks vice versa is a naughty verse... The Shakespearian cough: “T’ Bor not T.B.” —Clipped.

A RAG, AND A BONE, AND... The University of Florida contributes the following brilliant analysis: Women treat men like slot machines, if we don't pay off, they play another... Women’s lines aren't as good as the broken record. They don't even click!... A woman judges how well she is dressed by the length of time it takes her... Women consider all men pearls and strive mightily to add them to their personal string.

MOON OVER MIAMI... Add this to your repertoire of meaningful motions. Apparently, sign language is sweeping the south. This comes from L. S. U. Gesture: Place right hand gracefully on the back of the head. Interpretation: Absent-minded Indian, looking for his horse.

TOO BADDA... A janea A data Out lata Perchanca A quiza No passa Gee Whizzall —Villanovan.

STATISTICS... Yale graduates have 1.3 children, and Vassar graduates have 1.7 children, according to a recent student survey. All of which goes to prove that women have more children than men... The man who is always talking about his ancestors is like a potato; all that's good about him is underground. —Old Gold and Black.

Around Washington By ARNOLD SERWER Washington D.C.—By Johnstown and Hartford standards this town merely suffered from a little moisture during the recent floods. It is true that the Potomac went over its banks, that the aged and decrepit Chain Bridge a few miles above the city was threatened, that several blocks in Southeast Washington were under water a few feet, and that Potomac Park around the Lincoln Memorial and Hains Point were under water more than a few feet deep, but no one, within the city limits was at any time in danger. No one even got their feet wet, except some thousands of citizens who tramped through the mud and standing pools of water near Constitution Avenue where the CCC boys and WPA workers under army supervision had hastily thrown up an 18-foot sandbag dike, tramped through to see the “raging waters” and seemed disappointed when they found out that all there is to see about an overflow is a great deal of water and not much else. The local papers extracted as much drama and excitement from the local flood as they could for a few days, and then decided that the town's number one story still was Congress, that you couldn't keep it off the front page with a minor league flood in the District, for more than that period. And focusing their biggest spotlight on that interesting body again they found that a great many Congressmen were asking for flood funds for their states, particularly for the stricken areas, that the big drive in the Senate to investigate the WPA had died down, that pro and anti-Administration legislators were getting ready for the first major skirmish on the new WPA Appropriation, and that the Senate’s lobby investigation was still plugging along, ditto the A.T. & T. inquiry.

And, oh yes, a flock of youngsters were in town appearing before the Senate Committee on Education on behalf of the Benson-Amlie American Youth Act. The hearings were given a reasonable amount of play, but the general opinion was that the young folks speaking for the bill failed to muster enough strength numerically and enough ammunition oratorically. A parallel can be drawn between the floods and the new bill, in one sense. That is, that no amount of talk for flood control impressed the legislators, before the floods, to the point of talking about nationwide flood control backed by the billions that a real flood program would take. Now they're all for it on a large scale. Similarly, no amount of talk for the Youth Act will impress Congress, until the need for some such legislation is brought home to Congressmen by some dramatic event that will illustrate the scope and urgency of the youth problem. A march of youth on Washington someday? Not as improbable as it seems when one remembers that the bonusers by doing it hastened consideration of their demands, that the Townsendites have at times spoken of it and could and would attempt it by sending thousands of delegates if it became the deciding move in their struggle. The youth organizations don’t like to work that way, but if their bill is completely ignored it is very likely many of them will start thinking along such lines, and we may see another flood roll into Washington, of thousands of unemployed young people between the ages of 16 and 25... The newspapers are beginning to get worried about the effect of the flood on the Japanese cherry trees in Potomac Park. The flood waters swirling about the trees may have damaged them, at any rate to the extent of delaying or preventing their blossoming. This would be a catastrophe to the local papers because the blossoming of the trees is to Washington what the Mardi Gras is to New Orleans.

Iverson's Black Eye. Wood Burns being chased. Stage Door Johnny Atwater. Dan Fitch, etc. Judging by Walter Dickson’s admiring bevy, it must pay to be a track man. But can he cradle. Norfolk: Smitty C. Keyhole Kolumn. After a strenuous fishing trip last Sunday, fish Sam Lowe, Mack Davis, and Sam Ryburn were captured by an assorted crew of Fisherwomen. Can Sam keep track of them or do they keep him going around in circles? And the Pan-Hellenic Council hired a good band for Bowery Ball: Boys, I’m weakening. Pret Compare the NEWS. From Davidsonians of Years Gone By

—Five Years Ago— Don King of Johnston City, Tenn., was elected president of the student body. Junior Speaking begins tomorrow. Dr. Charles I. Myers conducted last Sunday’s vesper service. Baseball and track teams open seasons. Dr. J. T. Stone selected to preach baccalaureate sermon. Modern language meeting scheduled for April 9-11.

—Ten Years Ago— Baseball team defeats N. C., 9-8, in a thrilling game. Junior Speaking just concluded. Junior publication, “Saintly Rare” makes its appearance. Hartce Branch wins speaking. H. M. Austin elected new editor of Davidson College magazine. Jake Wade praises Wildcat fighting spirit. Sunday sermon was on “Foolishness.” Same as Dr. Gaebelein.

—Fifteen Years Ago— Queen's College dramatic club presents excellent entertainment. Wofford beaten 11-8. Real cowboy singer, John Lomax, visits Davidson. Fourth issue of Davidson magazine makes appearance. Among the movies: Fatty Arbuckle in “The Round-Up.” Wanted: A distinctive college yell. Dr. Walter L. Lingle will deliver commencement address at Princeton Theological Seminary in May.

THIS COLLEGIATE WORLD (By Associated Collegiate Press) When Fred Lemmer, student at the University of Minnesota meets his English professor, Mr. Weaver, they both blush slightly. Over a period of many weeks, Mr. Lemmer has broken all records for arriving late to Mr. Weaver's first-hour class. His alibis have varied: “My alarm clock is broken” or “there was a traffic jam” or “my car busted down.” Finally, Mr. Weaver snarled, “Next time you'll tell me your house burned down.” Last week, Mr. Lemmer was late again. During the night his house HAD burned down.

Governor Alf Landon is not the only Kansas male winning renown for his sense of economy. Take the males at the University of Kansas for example. The men’s council there has just issued a firm resolution requesting the girls of the campus to share evenly in the evening’s expenses while dating the men. They have even gone so far as to formally request the cafe owners of the town to issue separate dinner checks for the women. “Do not have a blasé sense of chivalry,” the University men were advised by the council.

OPEN FORUM Scintillating... Dear Editor: What is the matter with our forensic artists? For small audiences, our debating teams are far ahead of Classical Concerts, Dramatic entertainments, and all the other activities of our campus which draw miniature crowds. At the recent debate with Maryland, held in the Eu Hall, the audience came to about twenty, which included only a dozen persons there for the interest of the debate. The others were reporters or members of the freshman debating team. There was a time when the life of the campus centered around the activities of the literary societies, of which debating was the chief. What has come over us? We attended the debate, Friday night, and found it wonderfully interesting. The debaters were at their ease and really went at each other hammer-and-tongs. They plead, they shouted, they legalized, they harangued, and brought forth frequent shouts of amusement from a very interested audience. Yes sir, we have decided that debates are worth attending and have resolved not to miss one during the coming year. We advise all of the campus that can crowd into the Eu Hall to come and enjoy a most enlightening evening, the next time we have debates. Come on, folks, and see ’em scintillate! (Signed) RAT.