THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 8, 1936

The Davidsonian
Founded by the Class of 1915
1935 Member 1936
Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Printed by the QUEEN CITY PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate year.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879.

ARTICLES FOR SATURDAY should be in the hands of Managing Editors by 4:00 o'clock p.m. Letters to the Editor are welcome, but all communications intended for publication must be signed.

LAMONT BROWN... ... ... ... Editor
R. P. MORROW, Jr. ... Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
JIM MEN ORTON ... Managing Editor
Howett Overton ... Managing Editor
Harold Sugg ... Managing Editor
Raymond Turner ... Managing Editor
John Winne ... Managing Editor
Harry Kuykendall ... Sports Editor
Martin Barnett ... Associate Editor
Harvey Ghass ... Associate Editor
Paul Hardin ... Associate Editor
Noble Marchant ... Associate Editor
John Walker ... Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
Charles Mauze ... Circulation Manager
Bill Swope ... Circulation Manager
Bob Vance ... Circulation Manager
George Robinson ... Advertising Manager
Bill Robinson ... Collection Manager
Bill Deyerle ... Assistant Business Manager

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 8, 1936

God Is Pure: He Is a Shield to Trust in Him. Every Word of Him Is Pure. Prov. 30:5.

NEW YEAR’S RESOLUTIONS

It is perhaps a little late to bring up a subject that most everybody has forgotten about, but possibly some still have a few ideas with regard to resolutions for the New Year. Since this is the first post-holiday issue, we would like to say just a brief word on the subject.

College campuses are, what might be called, ideal breeding places for jealousies and attitudes provocative to criticism toward those about us. Often we are inclined to be intolerant of the opinions and feelings of those about us, and we too hurriedly forget our own faults and human frailties in an effort to show the other fellow his mistakes and weaknesses. Let us resolve at Davidson to drive any petty feeling of jealousy from our minds, and be big enough to recognize the merits of others as well as our own. Not too hasty to criticize before we analyze, and not too determined to make ourselves feel like wearers of royal purple at the innocent expense of our college companions.

It is a thing that all of us can do. We would do no harm to ourselves and certainly our associates would consider us much more desirable persons to live with if they knew we were trying to find qualities to praise, rather than go about with a jealous and critical eye.

PARAGRAPHICS

Heartiest congratulations to Carleton Chapman for having earned the very high distinction of a Rhodes Scholarship. He brings honor both to himself and to Davidson. Mr. F. I. Jackson also merits plentiful felicitation by his election to the national vice presidency of the Omicron Delta Kappa, leadership fraternity.

THE OPEN FORUM
Letters To The Editor

“The Davidsonian” does not necessarily endorse or accept any opinions expressed in this column.

Since the question was asked in a recent issue of the Davidson Alumni Journal as to whether Davidson should continue to play football with the Big Three in North Carolina, a lot has been said. Most of this talk has been by the various sports writers of the Carolina newspapers, and very little has so far been seen in print by the people most interested—Davidson’s students, faculty, and alumni. As one person very much interested in all things pertaining to Davidson, I want to express my opinion.

It is hard to believe that there can be an appreciable number of Davidson folks that really want to sever relations with the Big Three. I am sure that if the boys playing the game were interviewed they would vote a most emphatic and unanimous “No.” Those in charge of athletics at Davidson, I feel sure, would also vote a “No,” because their relations with the Big Three are most friendly, and (might I add) profitable. Davidson goes into these games as the acknowledged underdog, and comes out usually in fine physical shape, and without any feeling of inferiority, because she invariably gives a good account of herself.

If you want to get a glimpse of what is really the “tops” in football experience just ask some player who has participated in one of those rare games when the Davidson team took their larger brothers to the cleaners. Those are occasions worth cherishing for many years and the knowledge that these events may happen again adds zest and pleasure to every feature of a football career.

There have been occasions in the past when one or the other of these big teams has soared to the heights; and there have been friends of these teams busily engaged in waving farewells to little humble Davidson whom they say they are leaving for higher spheres of activity. Somehow these comet flights never reach the point that they get entirely out of sight of Davidson. Right at the present time all of these teams are spiraling up into the big-time football. But Davidson has managed to stay close enough behind to interest these folks in the games that Davidson takes part in. Who could possibly object to Davidson continuing to play these teams as long as football is football?

There may be an occasional alumnus who just can't take it; who wants to win every game, regardless. He just can’t stand the jibes of the friends of a victorious opponent. Our advice to that man is just to see more football games, then the sting of a defeat will be quickly wiped out by the thrill of the succeeding games.

Just suppose for a moment that Davidson did drop the Big Three. Who would they get to fill up their schedule? Would they go searching around to find big teams that were in a slump, in the hopes of knocking them off, or should they fill up with Little Six teams from our own state? The trouble with the former arrangement is that schedules nowadays have to be made about two years in advance; and very few teams stay that long in the dumps; and while Davidson might schedule a game with a weak team, by the time the actual playing of that game came about, that team might be very strong.

About this Little Six competition, Davidson would have trouble winning all those games. My prediction is that in a few years after adopting such a policy, Davidson would be having one or two defeats at the hands of her Little Six opponents. Because, why? Well, here’s why: Many a boy enters Davidson in the hopes that he will some day get to play in the Carolina game, in the Duke game, or in the State game. If this opportunity were denied him, he would just go to some other college. If you don’t believe this, inquire as to how the Army and Navy games have affected this condition. There are good boys that entered Davidson College in the hopes that they would get to make that trip to New York and play Army. A team that they were certain to be licked by. Right now there are boys at Davidson that entered when they found out that Davidson was to play Navy in 1936, and their hope is to get a chance to get in that game to take a practically certain licking. You can’t help but admire boys like that. We old-timers that have boys of our own, want our boys to be just like that. And I wonder how many of us would be inclined to send our boys elsewhere if Davidson should adopt the policy of dodging the hard conflicts? Isn't it just possible that such a policy would breed into the boys at Davidson, the notion that it’s better to dodge a difficult situation than to fight through it? In other words, to become definitely second-raters?

By all means, keep playing Carolina, Duke, and State until the end of the chapter. There has not been a Davidson game yet when these teams could throw in their second string and let them stay in for any length of time. It may be that the Davidson boys are just ignorant, for Carolina’s running over Maryland, Tennessee, Georgia Tech, and all those other big boys, just did not convince those Davidson boys that they were going to get licked; and Carolina had one of the toughest afternoons in their whole season, piling up a two-touchdown victory over Davidson. The wrinkles in Snavely’s face during that game were just about as deep as they were during the first half of the Carolina-Duke game. (Of course, they got a little deeper during the last half of that game!). And then, can you remember the time when Carolina had her famous “Hundred Backs?” when Chuck Collins was told by a Davidson Alumnus that he hoped he would have good luck in every game he played except when he played Davidson, Collins' reply was: “Well, maybe I won't need any luck in that game!” As it turned out, Davidson beat Carolina that year, and it was Davidson that did not need any luck in that game! These things are nice to remember and talk about, and their rarity makes them all the nicer.

JOS. B. JOHNSTON,
Past Pres. Davidson Alum. Assoc.

DAVIDSON OFF THE TEN NIGHTS IN A BAR-ROOM

Emerging through the slush by rail, thumb, and late busses, we meet again. Thirty-five may change to thirty-six, Yowls may die, we may have a victrola. Mid-Winters the Record, like a nigger eating watermelon, keeps for but one smiling year to year. Nineteen thirty-six is a perfect square; the last perfect square was 1849, the year of the gold rush. Nineteen thirty-six will be known as the year of the bonus rush. College is a concentrated cross-section of America: and each man comes from his other world to fit into the jigsaw. Pioneers walk an empty echoing hall Thursday afternoon, that night comes the deluge, and finally Monday brings up the rear guard with Palmer arriving from Texas, and the Ganiers from the swamps and cow paths of Mississippi. Each man back in his accustomed groove, the wheel of Davidson College grinds as usual and like the mills of the gods. There is an outward feeling of calm and resignation that sets in after the holidays whose surface is bothered by an inward state of troubling, suggestiveness, and yearning. The best word for it is melancholy. Familiarfigure is the Lovesick One—back from the holidays and quiet, dark-eyed and knowing. Another Annual Character is the guy who swears off smoking for the year’s resolution and hence hums cigarettes for a month. And the professors are priming their guns for examinations.

DESERTED VILLAGE

Some forty or fifty boys in the maddened Hejira of December and saddened return of January observed that peculiar phenomenon known as Barbers Junction, a maze of tracks about 20 miles north of this place. It is the most ignominious important spot this side of the Mississippi. It is impossible to travel 200 miles by rail in North Carolina without running into Barbers Junction. The focal point of the universe, a most agitating game is therein played by drunken engineers who squirm in and out for hours before deciding whither to go; and there is a prize for any man who can figure it out.

Off the Record

When a freshman got on three trains before catching the right one. But it didn’t make any difference because they each backed in, again. A visitor will discover a station, a control one. It has excellent possibilities as a home for traveling salesmen’s wives.

CAMPUS EX-PLUTOCRAT NO. ONE

“The Yowl” has uttered its last mournful yelp; and swelling the army of the unemployed is that grim noble band of jokesters, artists, and punsters whose job it was to eke humor out of a dreary existence. The gentleman looking at you is the erstwhile Editor of the bewailed publication, whose ignoble desinence was presaged when the title, “The Vile Cat” was vetoed as not being properly characteristic. Downie now goes into exile until this clean-shaven chin is bearded, until he needs a haircut, until he gets a peculiar look on his face. Then Downie will be literary enough to ascend as Editor of the remote and embryonic literary magazine. Hal Overton must turn from cartoons to Rembrandts, Gib Smith's Oswald must become a Chuzzlewit, Marry Kuykendall’s Lovelorn column must become a Pepys’ diary and Dick Vowles, Dunnie Covington, John Anderson, Sam Ryburn, Bob Johnson and all that worthy staff must dress their humor in Top Hat and Tails. Queer quirk:—The straw that broke the camel’s (?) back came from one of our female contemporaries. And even we think the joke was unwittingly vulgar.

AROUND WASHINGTON
By ARNOLD SERWER (Associated Collegiate Press Correspondent)

Washington, D.C.—No other body of Federal investigators has as rapid a turnover in personnel as does the Bureau of Investigation of the Department of Justice. The average period of service for the Secret Service men, the U.S. Post Office inspectors, and the Narcotic Squad of the Treasury Department is considerably longer than the average period of service among Jay Edgar Hoover’s G-men. Although Hoover catches them younger, the other services keep them longer. Some observers here say it's because Hoover's special agents, being younger, are too ambitious to stay in the department and await gradual salary advances and promotions, when the field of private investigation is so much more remunerative. Others say it’s the work itself that causes the turnover in the Bureau of Investigation. At any rate, year after year they leave the department to go with private detective agencies, into the practice of law, or into other types of public service or into business. The vacancies are filled by competitive examinations from time to time. Hoover uses young men with two types of training: accountants, and young men with law degrees. Of a force of 600 G-men, about 200 are accountants, the remainder are lawyers. Applicants successful in examinations held in any one of the department’s 37 regional offices scattered across the country, come to Washington for a final examination. Successful applicants, if physically fit and of good character, are finally enrolled in a three-month training course in the bureau's school here. On completing the course they are appointed special agents at salaries ranging from $2500 to $3000 a year. In return for that salary, the young special agent works long hours, jumps from one city to another, and follows his instructions to the letter. Carrying out orders often entails various kinds of unpleasantness. One assignment agents dread is any case having to do with the white slave traffic. They'd sooner be on the firing line than go through the undercover routine often necessary to locate the organizer of the traffic in a particular locality. The word “undercover” is particularly apt here. It’s nice work for rolling stones though. You never know where the department will tell you to roll to next, and how long they'll keep you there. Married men in the service have a particularly hard time of it for this reason. Their families live with their rags always packed and a railroad timetable handy. One young agent, who had been making plans to get home, was assigned to a difficult case in a Midwestern city, that kept him on the job for six months without a break. All he had to do was to play the saxophone. A criminal wanted by the bureau, the G-man’s superior learned, was eventually going to put in an appearance at a certain night club. It seems he always dropped in at that club whenever he got back to town. The G-man, who had played the saxophone in college bands, was ordered to get into the night club orchestra by hook or crook. After playing in several other bands the agent finally heard of a vacancy in the club’s orchestra, applied for it and got the job. For six months he played “Dinah,” “Tiger Rag,” and other current melodies, and searched the crowds dancing by for a glimpse of the man he'd been sent out to spot. And one night he saw his man. At the first opportunity he telephoned his chief and the G-men came down and picked up their man without any trouble. The saxophone-playing G-man’s thoughts promptly turned homeward. He discovered to his disgust that he was ordered to keep his job in the orchestra for another few weeks before quitting, so as to avoid casting suspicion upon himself as being in any way connected with the picking up of the man the department had been after. If you're contemplating applying for a job as a special agent, don’t worry much about getting shot. In the past 10 years only about a half dozen men have been killed in the line of duty. In the same period a great many more young men were killed playing football. Which brings to mind the fact, by the way, that if you've got all the other qualifications to become a special agent, you have a better chance for an appointment if you happen to be an athlete. Hoover has a predilection toward them as additions to his force.

Collegiate Ramblings

COLLEGIATE... A college paper is a great invention; The college gets all the fame; The printer gets all the money— The staff gets all the blame. —Purdue.

‘LIGHT FANTASTIC’... Rules for campus dances at Purdue: 1. No dancing on the ceiling. 2. Don't hang feet out of window. 3. Don't boo chaperones. 4. Don't retreat to the lounges unless you brought her.

‘UNDER A ROSE BUSH’... A stork recently lit on the roof of the Kappa house at Ohio State. The efforts of the girls to remove the visitor proved in vain, and finally university officials were called to remove the audacious fowl. All girls were resting easily at last report.—The Cadet.

JUDGEMENT... Some girls judge a boy's pocketbook by the grin on his face. But families don’t pay allowances by the size of their son's mouth.—Varoon.

INTERPRETATION... When a fellow tells his girl that they can’t live off of love, it means that he hasn't got a job and her old man has.—Sow wester.

DEPRESSION... College graduates don’t have to attend homecoming celebrations to see their old classmates. They hold reunions in front of employment agencies every week.—Notre Dame Scholastic.

“Just give me wine and women; I've got laryngitis.”—Oberlin Review.

GREAT MINDS... Q. Why did the bloodhounds give up the hunt for little Eva? A. They tell me she was anemic! Then too, a rolling stone gathers no moss, but it gets darn smooth.

TYPICAL... “The typical Harvard man is an indifferent old maggot with a funny accent,” says the university’s alumni bulletin.

ROMANCES... He thought he'd surely made a hit, When for his photograph she prayed. “Out, when this calls,” she wrote on it, And gave it to the maid.

AND MORE SO... Did you hear about the Tech boy who ordered a book “One Thousand Things You Can Make?” When the looked-for package arrived, he feverishly tore it open and found—the catalog of a large girls’ school.

THE DARK AGES... Students at W. and L. are still denied the use of electricity on Sundays. A pre-Christmas edition of the Ring-Tum-Phi suggests placing contribution boxes at strategic intervals about the campus to defray the cost of Sabbath illumination. Another columnist hints that if trustees owned a few shares of power company stock, the situation might be altered.