THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 11, 1936

DAVIDSON THEATER

DAVIDSON THEATRE

Wed. Nov. 11
A WOMAN REBELS
Starring Katherine Hepburn and Hubert Marshall. This stirring story. The supporting cast boasts Elizabeth Allan and Donald Crisp.

Thurs. Nov. 12
STATE FAIR
One of the better of the unforgettable Rogers pictures. Recommended for family viewing. Janet Gaynor is along with Will Rogers
in a tender story of a farmer's family.

Fri. Nov. 13
THE ROAD TO GLORY
A night war story starring Fredric March and Warner Baxter. A gripping tale of fighting and existing in the trenches.

Sat. Nov. 14
PIGSKIN PARADE
A fast-paced, humorous story starring Jack Haley and Patsy Kelly. Don't miss it!

ALUMNI MEETING HEAVILY ATTENDED
Drs. J. C. Bailey, C. R. Wilcox, and Mr. F. L. Jackson lead discussions. The meeting was held in Chambers
at one o'clock in the afternoon. After the meal, a round table discussion was held. There was the usual interest
and importance at this particular meeting.

COLLEGE MAGAZINE IS WELL RECEIVED
Homecoming Motif As First Issue of “Scripts ’n Pranks” Appears
SUCCESSOR TO “YOWL” Contains Short Stories, Articles, Poetry, and Features

The first issue of the new college magazine, “Scripts ’n Pranks,” has been well received. It contains a variety of
short stories, articles, poetry, and features. Some notable contributions include “From Jasper to Maw Jeter,” “Cafe Gaunt,” and “With 17
Sam Ryburn.” The magazine also features reviews of the season's outstanding games and battles, as well as political commentary.

CAT-NIPS (Continued from Page 4)
Burnette's place-kicks carry these parties to aid the college.

SIGMA UPSILON INITIATES (Continued from Page 3)
The fraternity voted to make efforts to write the lyrics and music to a new Alma Mater song. Each member
is expected to have written words and music to suggest at the next meeting. The best of these will be
chosen and proposed as the new Alma Mater. The next meeting of Sigma Upsilon is scheduled for Monday, November 16.

DAVIDSON over DUKE
ALABAMA over Tech
CATHOLIC U. over State
L. S. U. over Auburn
TENNESSEE over Vanderbilt
TULANE over Georgia
FURMAN over S. Carolina
See you in Charlotte, Saturday!

Centre. Carolina over Erskine
Rice and Richmond played their usual consistent game at guards. However, against a myriad of South Carolina players, our small
freshman squad was able to do little. It is expected that next year this S.C. freshman team will go far
in the University of South Carolina Gamecocks gridiron.

SPANISH STUDENTS SPEAK AT MEETING
Turner and McKnight in Charge of Program
On Wednesday night, November 4, the regular meeting of the Spanish fraternity was held in Shearer Hall. Jack Branch, president
of the group, presided at the meeting, and Prof. E. K. Fleagle of the Spanish department was present. The evening’s
program consisted of brief talks in Spanish by each member of the group about their summer vacation. Pete McKnight and
Daymond Turner were in charge of the program, which was enjoyed by all.

DAVIDSON HI-Y MEETS TO DISCUSS PROJECTS
On Monday evening, November 2, High Hi-Y held a meeting in the college Social Center. Davidson school club President Ed
Jackson and Vice-President Edwin Shewmake gave discussions on parliamentary procedure. Secretary Kenneth Foreman announced a Hi-Y “Father and Son” banquet
to be held in Charlotte on Friday. It was decided that the entire club should attend the banquet and invite
boys outside the club and their fathers. The club with the highest attendance will have the honor of appointing the
toastmaster. About thirty members are expected to attend. The banquet is to be held at Efird’s.

GRID FAVORITES TRIUMPH (Continued from Page 3)
Notre Dame was held scoreless through the entire game played before 57,000 fans in Baltimore, and finally took the game
when Bill Ingram, along with a line of sea-going foot soldiers, succeeded in scoring. We can all sit back and
watch teams polish up for battles. Then the football fans will crowd into Kenan Field in Chapel Hill to watch
the games.Duke it out for the title this weekend at Carolina fight.

TALK IS MADE
(Continued from Page 1)

There is no trouble from this as yet. The very students today are those same French students who leave a
place for America; but they are studying. They enjoy sports very much and are very much concerned about what their
future will be. He concluded his lecture by asking for questions from any members of the audience. Several students responded
and received appropriate replies. The Viscount stated that he knew very little English and therefore his discussions would have to
be committed to French.

COMMUNITY CHORUS IS ORGANIZED HERE
Will Present Cantata Before Christmas Holidays

A Community Chorus is being formed in Davidson under the auspices of the Music Club. This chorus will hold its
meetings every other Wednesday night at 8:15 in the banquet hall of Chambers building. The permanent officers, which were elected
at a recent meeting of the newly formed organization, are as follows: Mrs. John Williams, president; Mr. Eugene McEver, vice-president;
and Miss Hattie Thompson, accompanist. At the present time, the chorus is working on a Christmas cantata, entitled “The Adoration”
by Nevin. This cantata will be presented to the citizens of Davidson and students sometime before the Christmas holidays in
December. The chorus has between fifty and sixty members.

SIGMA PHI UPSILON
(Continued from Page 1)

Mrs. Fred K. Fleagle, Mrs. H. E. Fulcher, and Mrs. Norman W. Sheppard. Other fraternity decorations were as follows: Beta
Theta Pi centered crepe paper adornment about a large Beta insignia over the porch of the house. Sigma Alpha Epsilon:
A huge nickel, showing “heads” on one side of the house for Davidson and “tails” on the other for Carolina,
with a Wildcat biting “the Tar out of those Heels.” Pi Kappa Alpha: crepe paper covering in red, black, blue,
and white for the walkway into the fraternity house. That was supplemented Saturday morning by a group of Wildcat-mauled UNC
football players. Kappa Alpha: a Carolina player hanging from goal posts into an ash barrel. The exhibit bore this legend:
“We've waited one hundred years to do this.” Phi Delta Theta: crepe paper drapery centered about “1837—Centennial Homecoming—1937” over the
porch. A reception was held at the home of Dr. Watts.

DAVIDSON BAND GIVES EXHIBITION AT GAME
Band Led By Vernon Lassiter, Jr., Tiny Mascot From Winston-Salem

The Davidson College band put on an exhibition during the half of the Davidson-North Carolina football game on Homecoming weekend,
November 7. Appearing at the south end of the field, the band played a march tune. At the opposite end,
Vernon Lassiter, Jr., of Winston-Salem, the three-year-old nephew of Mr. Pfohl, director of the Davidson band, goose-stepped up the length
of the field. He joined the other three band leaders, Julian Helms, Tom Magill, and Henry Baker, and marched in
front of the band to the fifty-yard marker. Here, a monogram “C” formed in front of the Carolina stands, and
the school song was played. Forming again at the south end of the field, the band marched in the shape
of an airplane and gave an imitation of the drone of its motor. Paul Hudson, dressed in a white pilot’s
uniform, walked in the midst of the formation. Next, the band counter-marched down the field to the tune of Bolero
and performed a special step in time with the music. To conclude their exhibition, they drew up in front of
the Davidson cheering section and saluted the Wildcat supporters with the college song.

O. D. K. INITIATES
(Continued from Page 1)

There is no trouble from this as yet. The two alumni present were Mr. Bernie Thomas and Mr. Smith Richardson;
each gave a short talk. Mr. Thomas spoke on alumni relations and Mr. Richardson spoke on the friendliness and leadership
of the Davidson students. Impromptu speeches were made by the new members.

Pep Meeting Precedes Homecoming
Freshmen Spirits Run High On the Eve of Homecoming Celebration

A mammoth pep meeting Friday night touched off the fireworks to the Davidson Homecoming celebration. Tremendous enthusiasm was shown by
the large crowd which attended. At seven o'clock, the boys gathered at the gymnasium and started cheering. Several yells were
given, then “Mac” McClure and Johnny Mackerell made a few remarks on the forthcoming game. The student body then gave
the famous “FIGHT” yell, and the freshmen collected for the annual shirt-tail parade. From the gymnasium, the cheerleader led the
parade around Chambers and on to the freshman field, where a huge bonfire was blazing. About the fire, the parade
continued, accompanied by the band, until the exhausted boys broke formation. Then all gathered to sing “O Davidson,” a fitting
climax to the mammoth celebration. A second pep meeting, similar to those preceding the Carolina and Wake Forest games, is
being planned for the Centre contest. This meeting will be held Friday night preceding the game, as usual.

Organ Concerts To Be Given On Sunday

Beginning next Sunday, November 15th, a half hour of organ music will be played by either Mr. James C. Pfohl
or Mr. Thane MacDonald twice a month. They will begin at 4:30 in Chambers auditorium. According to Professor Pfohl, a
number of students have requested such a program, and it is the hope of the Music Department that many students
who wish to spend a part of Sunday afternoon in the enjoyment and cultivation of music will attend. Professor Pfohl
will give the first program, and after that, he and Mr. MacDonald will alternate.

©1936, LIGGETT & MYERS TOBACCO CO.

Like fine wines, Chesterfield tobaccos are aged for two years or more to make them mellow and better-tasting. There is
no higher standard of tobacco quality than the Chesterfield standard. Few things that grow require all the care and cultivation
it takes to raise the mild, ripe tobaccos in Chesterfield Cigarettes. Proper curing by the farmer gives flavor to Chesterfield
tobaccos just as it does to fine hams and bacon.
