THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 18, 1936

The Davidsonian
Founded By the Class of 1915
1935 Member 1936
Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate year.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879.

ARTICLES FOR PUBLICATION must be in the hands of Managing Editors by 4:00 o'clock p.m., Monday. Letters to the Editor
are welcome, but communications intended for publication must be signed.

LAMONT BROWN
R. P. MORROW, Jr. - Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
Jim Morton - Managing Editor
Harold Sugg - Managing Editor
Daymond Turner - Managing Editor
John Winn - Managing Editor
Harry Kuykendall - Managing Editor
Martin Barnett - Managing Editor
Harvey Glass - Managing Editor
Paul Hartman - Managing Editor
Tom Marchant - Managing Editor
John Walker - Sports Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
Charles Mauze - Circulation Manager
Bob Vance - Circulation Manager
Hoke Robinson - Advertising Manager
Burt Hill - Collection Manager
Burt Dyer - Assistant Business Manager

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 18, 1936

Finally, my brethren, be strong in the Lord, and in the power of his might. Put on the whole armor
of God that you may be able to stand against the wiles of the devil. Ephes. 6:10, 11.

Paragraphics...

The Junior class, headed by Russell Patterson, should receive very hearty felicitations for the excellent set of dances they sponsored
last weekend. Everything went off in a very harmonious and rhythmical fashion.

Drs. Barr and Ellwood have shown us why we should study the Social Sciences, now we would like to hear
a defense for the other departments.

Davidson's Baccalaureate speaker, Dr. Joseph R. Sizoo, is pictured in the current rotogravure section of The New York Times, but
their failure to mention it indicates that they didn't know that he was to be on our campus in June.

Congratulations to Grier Martin for the unusually attractive issue of the Alumni Journal. The front cover showing an aerial view
of Davidson was the best we have ever seen.

Wilbur Edwards and Walter Dickson are to be congratulated for having been elected to their respective offices and the student
body is to be congratulated for having elected them.

Wade Boggs, who was runner-up to both of these men, could have filled either job very capably. We sympathize with
him in his defeats, but offer him consolation in the assurance that there are a large number of men in
the student body who respect his ability and admire his manly qualities.

Phi Betas...

Five members of the Senior Class have recently been elected to membership in Phi Beta Kappa, which to some may
mean simply the privilege to wear an attractive key, but fundamentally it is the reward for application. Just as Gray
tells us in that immortal churchyard elegy of his that “Many a flower is born to blush unseen, and waste
its sweetness on the desert air,” so does many a brilliant-minded student pass his college days without the proper application
of his faculties. That is what Phi Beta Kappa represents. In plain everyday words, it means that those men who
have been invited into that organization have done, in the best possible way, the very thing that they primarily came
to college to do. To Seniors who failed to attain the necessary average for membership in this oldest of college
fraternities, it is only a regretful reminder that talents have been dissipated and time wasted, but to underclassmen, it can
yet be a goal, and an inspiring one toward which enterprising students aspire and often attain.

Our Flag...

For the past month, there has hung from the hitherto unused flag pole on the front of the Davidson campus
a large new American flag, sometimes called the stars and stripes. It is quite a thrilling sight to see this
patriotic symbol ruffling in the breeze from its lofty perch. Reminding each true-blooded American that to uphold the heritage of
free courageous Americans, he must be an embodiment of the valor, zeal, and fervency that the red bars symbolize; that
he must have the hope, purity, cleanliness of heart, and rectitude of conduct that is represented by the white stripes,
and look upon the blue, color of the sky, as epitomizing heaven, for reverence to God, loyalty, sincerity, justice, and
truth. “Old Glory” is America’s “standard.” It is her “colors.” It should be the standard of every citizen who stands
beneath its banners and is daily thankful to God for being able to live in the “land of the free
and the home of the brave.”

Peace and Preparedness...

With Europe literally boiling in the frigid hands of her cold-blooded dictators, reminiscences of 1914 are recalled to the minds
of many who lived through those trying weeks before the last great bloody struggle, and to those of us who
came along soon thereafter, discomfort, suffering, and invincible trials and problems are all too real. We see it proclaimed in
every newspaper and hear it from nearly every platform that the world is on the verge of another colossal international
embroglio. Germany, France, Italy, Russia, and all the other states of Europe are arming to the limit, disregarding all peace
pacts, startling the world into another frantic, wasteful affray, for what cause, no one can honestly assert. Where does the
United States stand, with all her strikes for peace among students on the one hand and her ROTC units striving
to train educated officers for a reserve to be employed when necessary on the other? Peace is undeniably what the
citizens of the United States practically unanimously desire and will strive for, but it would be obviously a very foolhardy
stunt for every American to simultaneously say, “I can see no possible cause for the United States to ever have
another war, consequently I will lay down ‘sword and shield’ and return to my ‘shovel and hoe’.” The likelihood of
an attack upon American soil is extremely doubtful, but it is less likely if we are prepared to meet any
such occurrence that might arise. It has been contended that the military training taught in the ROTC departments of the
colleges throughout the United States tends to make the students war-minded, that it is encouraging the youth of America to
invite conflict with other nations of the world. No more fallacious contention has ever been resounded. If any one of
the advocates of that belief could go through four years of instruction and discipline as is offered by any college
military department in America, I am confident he would come to the end of it feeling that peace should be
sought to the last degree, but that as great and powerful a nation as the United States needs to maintain
adequate national defense if freedom and democracy are to be guarded. The United States has very vital connections with almost
every country of the world. If another worldwide crisis should precipitate, it would take more influential diplomacy and wiser statesmanship
than has ever been displayed before to keep the United States from taking part. So, with enthusiastic emotion, let us
rally to the promotion of world peace, but let us not conscientiously object to the proper amount of preparation against
that day when trouble might descend upon America, nor be opposed to supporting her, if and when she becomes involved.

DAVIDSON - OFF THE RECORD
By HAROLD SUGG

DEAR BOYS:
While you have been at each other’s throats over electing the potentates of next year, while you are discovering that
your friends have the hand of Jacob but the vote of Esau, we have been attempting to find our way
out of the Tennessee wilderness. Leaving the comfortable and well-marked roads of North Carolina, we floundered in a bleak eruption
of barren red clay hills, splotched with pusillanimous unincorporated towns and barely delineated, like a map drawn with a leadless
pencil. At Chattanooga, they say you can see seven states from Lookout Mountain. In order to get to Chattanooga, you
travel in seven states, back and forth. Rich, the chauffeur, Wilbur, and myself were like the Pharisees and Sadducees, “praying
for a sign.” The state of Tennessee drains one's pocketbook by placing toll bridges between every important city, and gas
costs over 24c per gallon. However, one realizes the difficulty of the state government when one realizes the origin of
that great state. Tennessee was born when a group of North Carolina citizens refused to pay their taxes and moved
over where they didn’t have to. Ever since then, when one has no connections, he is known to have Sevier-ed
connections. In Southern Tennessee, there is a rambling exaggerated cow path upon which someone has ridden and dribbled bits of
tar, known as the Andrew Jackson Highway. Old Hickory being a native of North Carolina and a favorite of mine,
I hated to see him damned with such faint praise, but I guess it was because he was known as
Old, Rough, and Ready. Typical Tennessee Road Sign: Detour:—Sign of Progress.

Sewanee and Chattanooga
On the top of a mountain, where the air is cool, where the sun sets in a warm bright calmness
and where most of the buildings are of gray stone and mountain rock, is the University of the South, a
small school of about 300, under Episcopalian influence. Professor Stringfellow Barr's observation that there is something exciting about a group
of College Men gathered together and devoted to learning struck a note that resounded hard when we felt Sewanee. The
Student Body is a group of congenial Southern gentlemen and the hospitality is fine. Two things particularly impressed us about
this Episcopalian school: Coats are required for dinner, and the students have a deep respect for their traditions and their
honor system.

STOLEN THUNDER
By DAYMOND TURNER

Pull this one when you want to make her mad and get away with it. “The inside of your head
reminds me of Lionel Barrymore's latest picture.” You can probably cover several blocks before she remembers the title, “Ah Wilderness!”

Poem...
She got mad and called him Mr.
Not because he went and Kr.
But because the night before
This same Mr. Kr. Sr.
—Maroon.

Education...
Recently uncovered at the University of Nebraska were these two ingenuous observations. One student identified Milton's “Sonnet on his Blindness”
as the one beginning “I think that I shall never see—.” Another sage defined a papal bull as “The animal
kept in the Vatican to give milk to the Pope’s children.”

Definition...
Love is blind. Marriage is an institution. Therefore marriage is an institution for the blind.

Attention-Getter...Worn invariably, and it is known for having the best college dances in the South. Seniors and Juniors wear gowns
and what Davidson calls Student Councilmen are “proctors” at Sewanee. Chattanooga is a thriving industrial city in the valley between
two hills which seems smoky in the daytime but at night, driving down from Lookout Mountain, the atmosphere is frothy
in a myriad of twinkling lights. Everything in Chattanooga is named “House.” There is the Read House, the Ross House,
some varieties of “Steak House,” and some wag utilized the situation by calling his hamburger shop “Powerhouse.”

Knoxville and Kentucky
Knoxville is our favorite of Tennessee cities. At the Andrew Johnson, Ernie Dooley’s folks (Ernie, you know, loves the Vogler
Boat Song) treated us like princes. Kentucky:—Tennessee has bad roads and poor marking but is at least consistent. In the
Blue Grass State one rides well and then all of a sudden hits a washout in the road, if not
a washout a cow. The effect is somewhat that of riding in a train and making a bridge crossing every
hundred yards. Kentucky does mark her roads however and is a good state, seen no blue grass, no horses, women
and no mountaineers.

Centre College
The Los Angeles Junior Collegian tells one about a certain professor who was having great difficulty in securing the attention
of his class. Finally, thoroughly exasperated, he shouted: “Order please!” “Hot beef sandwich,” came a sleepy voice from the back
row.

Leap Yr.
It was Feb. xxixth
He sed “Kno”
She sed “Pleaz”
He sed “Kno”
She sed “Pleaz”
She bggd 'N' bggd
But he still widat
Play angrms.—Purple and White.

Open and Shut
It was in the anatomy class. The junior who hated girls was reciting, pointing out the characteristics of a skull.
“It is a well-shaped skull,” he said.
“Just, how do you know that this is a woman's skull?” said the junior.—Indian.

Heart-Burn
Last night I held a little hand
So dainty and so weak,
I thought my heart would surely burst,
So wildly it did beat.
No other hand ever held so tight
Could greater gladness bring,
Than one I held last night.
It was—four aces and a king!
—The Annapolis Log.

Elite
Just as a traveler was writing his name on the register of a Leavenworth hotel, a bed-bug appeared and took
its way across the page. The man paused and remarked: “I've been bled by St. Joe fleas, bitten by Kansas
City spiders, and interviewed by Fort Scott Graybacks, but I'll be darned if I was ever in a place where
the bed-bugs looked over the hotel register to find out where your room number was!”—Lenoir-Rhynian.

A Crowd
In the parlor there were three,
The girl, the lamp, and he.
Two is a company, and no doubt
That is why the lamp went out.
—Reflector.

In A Nut-Shell
Then there was the U. of C. professor who asked his history students to give the Monroe Doctrine in their
own words and as briefly as possible. The prize-winning answer: “Scram, youse foreigners.”
Also, there was the professor who dreamed he was lecturing to his class, woke up and found he really was.

Question
“Can this be love?” the young man cried.
“I'm all on fire,” he shrieked—and died.
It was not love,
He died because
He was on fire. He really was!
—Critograph.

(By Associated Collegiate Press)
Washington. — With the reinstatement of their president, Edna Richter, the WPA union won a long hard fight to prove
that union discrimination had been practiced by WPA officials. This victory for the young college-trained unionists is supposed to mean
that henceforth the union will be given a free hand here in promoting the cause of employees of the WPA
administrative staff. It should also mean rapid growth for this local and increased prestige for it in AFGE councils. Only
one other lodge, the NRA lodge, has demonstrated its ability to protect a union member released because of union activity.
AFGE President Babcock, realizing the strength of the Richter case as a union issue, offered to make a special trip
to see Harry Hopkins, then in Florida, and induce him to reinstate Miss Richter. But the WPA unionists prefer to
have fought the fight successfully themselves since it brought the desired admission that Miss Richter had been discriminated against, rather
than to have had her hired again without that admission, as an accomplishment of Babcock instead of as a union
victory.

With more and more government agencies cutting down the size of their staffs, the job situation is becoming acute here.
Officials of any importance whatever are constantly badgered and beleaguered by ex-employees of AAA, WPA, and NRA for new positions.
Local government unions are trying to induce the WPA to start a federal project here to care for the newly
unemployed. With the passage of the new farm bill, former AAA employees are expecting that those given brief furloughs without
pay will have those furloughs extended for two months, or until such time as the new farm bill setup provides
new jobs. Those with furloughs, of course, get first crack at any new jobs appearing. Even the Department of Justice
is reducing personnel somewhat, mostly among clerks, messengers, typists, and their ilk. No slash in the number of G-men, however,
so public enemies will wisely refrain from calling for three cheers and a burst of gunfire.

Around Washington
By ARNOLD SERWER
What the President meant by “windfall taxation” was taxation of the returns made to processors of AAA taxes impounded by
court action, not a tax laid on the general public. In spite of the fact that his meaning was clear,
political cartoonists the country over drew pictures of Wallace and Tugwell seeking the taxpayer with “just another tax, with a
new name,” while the papers they drew for were pointing out that it was a special tax on a special
group, a group admittedly unpopular for getting taxes returned that they had passed on to the consumer. All of which
brings up the old question, “Do political cartoonists read the newspapers they draw for?”

NYA projects, providing employment for thousands of youths out of school and out of work, are being routed through WPA
project processing very rapidly. The WPA’s Coordinating Committee alone, which handles only statistical projects, has 500 such projects before it
for consideration, as one part of the $20,000,000 job program of the NYA. Even if only a small percentage of
these passed it would mean the greatest upturn in the slide rule manufacturing business since the taking of the last
census. With the cooperation of 100 of the largest firms in New York, CCNY has set up a new employment
service for graduates.

(By Associated Collegiate Press)
You're ignorant of the realities of life if you're of college age, thinks Dr. William Carpenter MacCarty of the graduate
school of the University of Minnesota. The doctor parcels out your life like this:
1—Pre-birth—age of ancestral defects.
2—Birth to 16 years—age of supreme ignorance, affection and confidence.
3—Sixteen to 25—age of energy, optimism, imagination, adventure, discovery, invention and ignorance of the realities of life.
4—Twenty-five to 55—age of egotism, self-confidence, selfishness, over-expansion and frequent mistakes.
5—Fifty-five to death—age of experience, wisdom, tolerance, conservatism and simplicity.

In addition to being ignorant of the realities of life, you (if you're a co-ed) are probably also badly spoiled.
Or at least so thinks another doctor, Prof. Charles Reed of Northwestern University, who thinks the human race is degenerating,
that all us young ‘uns are getting soft. “The daughters,” he says, “are pampered and petted. They don’t get enough
sunshine or exercise. They can't take it the way their grandmothers did.”

Compare the NEW
From Davidsonians of Years Gone By
—1931—
Dr. Oren Moore of Charlotte, presents gold footballs to members of the grid team at athletic night exercises. Dr. Charles
F. Myers of Greensboro, will speak at the annual Y. M. C. A. spring services. Dr. Thomas H. Sparrow speaks
to students interested in medicine. The address was given under the auspices of the vocational guidance series. Riley D. Powell
and John C. Mathews defeat Birmingham-Southern in a debate. Vachel Lindsay, noted American poet, will deliver a lecture and recital
here on March 27. Mr. H. N. Wheeler delivers an address here on the United States Forestry service. Quips and
Cranks will appear on May 15. Captain Otto will remain at Davidson for another year with the R. O. T.
C. unit.

—1926—
Billy Christian is elected Y. M. C. A. president in the second balloting over William Covington. William P. Goebel, golf
pro at the Charlotte Country Club, will play an exhibition match here in the near future. The Greensboro College Glee
Club gives a concert here. Mr. F. L. Jackson speaks at vespers. Phi Beta Kappa extends bids to J. M.
Appleby, O. L. Bremer, R. W. Graves, and C. E. Houston. Junior Speaking plans are going forward rapidly under the
direction of Harlee Branch, chairman of the committee. Captain Cox leads mat men to victory over Navy and Baltimore “Y.”
J. P. Williams, former Y. M. C. A. secretary will return here next year as professor of commerce.

—1921—
Dr. W. W. Moore of Richmond delivers the fourth series of Ott's lectures, taking as his subject, “The Permanence of
the Christian Ideal.” The 1921 Quips and Cranks will be ready for distribution on May 10. Davidson College will be
host to the district Christian Endeavor Conference during the coming week. The recently formed wrestling team under the direction of
Captain W. P. Cumming loses its first three matches.

Printers... Publishers... Bookbinders... Commercial and Social. Printing and Publishing Book and Catalog Publishing a Specialty
REPRESENTATIVES: LAMONT BROWN——R. P. MORROW

Centre College is a Presbyterian College and has the best dance arrangement we've seen yet. Each fraternity holds a formal
and invites the Student Body; these formals are held once every two or three weeks. Although their judges are did
hospitality to debating teams. There was a nice audience and the president and his wife had a reception for us
after the debate. Centre, as you know, is to play Davidson on the gridiron next year at Davidson.

STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
117 Garland Court
Charlotte, N. C.
