Page Two The Davidsonian

Founded By the Class of 1915

1936 Member 1937 Associated Collegiate Press

Distributors of Collegiate Digest

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY National Advertising Service, Inc. College Publishers Representative 420 MADISON Ave. New York, N.Y. Chicago + Boston + San Francisco Los Angeles + Portland + Seattle

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879.

R. H. ROBINSON ........-...----.--.----..Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF Owen Cooke Managing Editor Sam Cothran Managing Editor Euclid Pannell Managing Editor Hector McGeachy Managing Editor Dick Vowles Managing Editor Sam Kuykendall Sports Editor Howell Overton Associate Editor Maralt Suggs Associate Editor Daymond Turner Associate Editor John Wann Associate Editor Sam Ryburn Art Editor Fitz Dade Copy Reader

BUSINESS STAFF Wilson Lowrance Circulation Manager Ralph Chandler Circulation Manager Charles Moore Collection Manager Joe M. Hall Advertising Manager Asst. Business Manager

Life has no pleasure nobler than that of friendship. —DR. JOHNSON.

LIBERALISM . . . Liberalism is the child of

Brighten The Campus...

We have already remarked elsewhere on the success of Homecoming decorations. And while on the subject of campus beautification, we would like to add our endorsement to a suggestion which comes to us from Mrs. N. T. Smith, supervisor of dormitories and “mother” to an entire student body. Why not add flowers to our already extensive planting? Each year the college spends several thousand dollars on its front campus alone. Yet one thing is lacking: color. Nothing could do more to complete the picture than a few beds and borders of bulbs and flowering shrubs. Now is the time for the spring planting. Naturally, the cynical will say that flowers have no place at a boys’ school, that our students would not appreciate them. Yet we know of a state university (nearly six times the size of Davidson) whose campus is a riot of color throughout the spring and summer months. Then, too, we did have flowers here at one time. The ruined beds about the literary society halls attest to that. We understand that there were even window boxes in the dormitories. Far be it from us to suggest anything so radical. Still, why not more rambling roses and azaleas? And why not the addition of tulips, hyacinths, iris, jessamine, and crepe myrtle? They would look mighty good.

Campus Comments

“A certain freedom to go wrong is essential in a university, where men are learning, not to obey, but to choose.”—Raleigh.

As college students, we should defend and forward it with zeal and passion. What constitutes a liberal individual? Chiefly, open-mindedness—a thing most of us think we have, but only a few really possess. He possesses it who is bound by no orthodox tenets or established forms of his predecessors. It is not the idea here to picture students as an unruly, unmannered herd of radicals clamoring for change in any form. The central idea is to reveal the student of colleges as the true guardian of progressive advancement for the good of humanity. Our elders eventually wobble into and along the well-traveled ruts, in thought and action. Life offers no question worth fighting for. They conform to prevailing ideas rather than fight for their convictions. Earlier ideals lose their beauty and attractiveness. Some day, the college students of the present will likewise compromise their ideals. Then a new generation of college youth will take up the torch and carry it onward. Thus, liberalism, with us, is a thing to be protected, to be honored and respected.

PICTURE ... The largest football photo in North Carolina is now on display. It is the picture of the Wildcat team which appeared on the cover of The Alumni Journal.

COMMENT ... So the new Chevrolets are here. Some advertising stunt they pulled at that game last Saturday, but the contents were worthwhile. Wonder if that paint will wash off.

SPORTSMANSHIP ... None of us have any reason to make excuses for our team. In some ways, the breaks seemed against them, but they played the game like true sons of Davidson and gentlemen—we are proud of them. An innovation was the action of the student body in rising to its feet every time a Davidson player left the game. This seems to us the proper spirit. We hope it will become an essential part of our tradition.

LOCAL COLOR ... Not the least part of our celebration was the festive note those decorated fraternity houses lent to the campus. Also, bouquets to the fraternities for their splendid cooperation.

HOMECOMING ... Another Homecoming come and gone. In spite of the weather and the score, the most successful we have ever seen. More alumni back, an excellent program of entertainment from first to last. The ones in charge of the alumni luncheon deserve special credit for the way in which they handled the unprecedented number of guests.

NINETEEN THIRTY-SEVEN ... Although, contrary to our idealistic head writer of last week, this was NOT Davidson's hundredth Homecoming, we would again like to remind our readers that this is her hundredth year. By some strange quirk in her history, this year’s will be the hundred and first to graduate. Therefore, everything indicates the continuance of a big year. Let’s stay behind that centennial program.

By ironclad rules, but I refer specifically to compulsory church attendance for Seniors. Not that I don’t favor church-going, but why should a senior in college be allowed to attend church according to the dictates of his own conscience? Why shouldn't he be allowed to worship where he pleases? Why compel an act that should be voluntary? By our rules, we breed the idea that church is a thing to be avoided according to the number of cuts allowed per semester. Compulsion accomplishes little in such matters. By the time a man enters Davidson, he has already formed the habit of church-going. Why make church attendance a thing to be circumvented rather than a willful act of devotion? What freedom of choice do we have? We learn only to obey certain rigid rules, not to choose between what is right and what is not. Consider the difference between the graduate who is no longer “required to go to church,” and the graduate who goes to church because he wants to. Required church attendance may form the habit of going to church temporarily, but it also forms a stronger habit—the habit of regarding church as a thing to be avoided. This attitude we do not like. We wish to escape it. Therefore, we propose a change—freedom in church attendance for seniors at least.

— HAL OVERTON, Editor Scripts 'n Pranks.

P.S.—I request Joe Hunter, President “D” Club, to submit Campus Comments for the next issue of The Davidsonian.

THAT DEPENDS ... Soft Suitor: “Sir, may I have your daughter for my wife?” Fond Father: “Bring your wife around and we'll see!”

KINDNESS ... A professor went to sleep in one of our Eastern colleges recently. His students remained quiet and let him sleep through the whole class period. All of which goes to show that students are more con-

CAMPUS CAMERA

THOR OF ARF SIG COLLEGE STADIUMS COUNTRY WITH A TOTAL SEATING CAPACITY OF 5,168,200 OR AN AVERAGE OF 10,000 PER SCHOOL.

COACH "SLIP" MADIGAN'S GALLOPING GAELS OF ST. MARY'S COLLEGE (CAL) MUST TRAVEL OVER 30 MILES OF LAND, 20 MILES OF WATER, AND PASS THROUGH THREE COUNTIES AND METROPOLITAN CITIES IN ORDER TO REACH THEIR "HOME" FIELD, KEZAR STADIUM, SAN FRANCISCO!

SIGNALS OVER. WE'RE HEADIN’ TOWARD BERKELEY!

UNIVERSITY OF CHATTANOOGA STUDENTS HOLD A CONTEST EACH YEAR TO SELECT THE BACHELOR OF UGLINESS!

Copyright by Associated Collegiate Press Madison, Wisconsin

SWEEPING THE CAMPUS

We didn't beat Carolina, team, but we love you and we're still for you like always. Win or lose, you're Davidson.

It's all over now except the memory, but such pleasant memories. Some say it was the best weekend we have had for a long, long time and we're inclined to agree. Such music, such women, and such fun.

The girls were elegant. We can’t mention some without mentioning all of them for they were swell, all of them. The weekend got under way unofficially on Thursday night with the Wayne King dance. The boys were there in large numbers. Colonel Lippfert’s St. Vitus girl was there but where was the Colonel? It was quite interesting to note the difference between the public dances and the Davidson dances. There is no comparison, really; for our dances are the best ever, and that’s not too prejudiced. Tails and Yankee dancing become more and more apparent. Have you ever watched a guy shagging in tails? The tremendous financial success of the set should indicate the best Mid-Winters Davidson has ever had. We would like to start a movement now, far enough in advance, to get Hal Kemp for Mid-Winters.

Davidson crashed the cover of the Literary Digest last week. Pete Marchant is the uncrowned hamburger king of the Hotel Charlotte dining room. Howard Covington escorted “Henry Lyons’ Physical Culture girl.” P.S.—She is not the one on this month’s cover. Tom Corbin ordered a big weekend—from soup to nuts. Add embarrassing moments—Hector McGeachy discovering he had forgotten to wear studs. Dick Vowles’ girl lost her voice so he had a very quiet weekend. Does Sandy Moffett's girl still think there’s something about a soldier? Sigma Phi Nuthin pledged a new dummy. Graham Squires has gone home for his annual ten days’ vacation. Tommy Thompson and George Albright will never be the same but we're glad they're back from a couple appendectomies. Owen Cooke and Bill Niesewetter restore our faith in blind dates. We are happy to announce that the Upper-Classmen who were placed on campus for hazing a freshman have regained their liberty. We think this pressure being brought to bear onupper-class—Siderate than professors.

* * * BREVITY ... You can lead a fraternity man to water, but why disappoint him? ... Men beware of her who glitters; remember, all’s not youth that twitters ...

* * * HANGOVER ... I am so lonely when you're gone, It leaves me in despair; But don’t get too conceited— It's the same when you are there.

Hazing for good humor is being carried much too far. We oppose cruelty and oppression, but we raise our eyebrows at all this unreasonable and unnecessary hullabaloo. Fields Horine presented a little bit of old Heidelberg in the Tavern. Lem Kornegay, mine host for old grads on the third floor. Wade Barrow between the devil and the deep when he put his girl in the car with an ex-flame for that long ride back to Florence. Carl Carlson was seen pulling a reptile on Chubby King. Geddie Monroe swung back into form with his bird in the cage.

Stolen Thunder By DAYMOND TURNER

Definitive—
PROFESSOR—A hired bit of camouflage placed around an athletic club to give it the appearance of a university.
REFORMER—A person who wants you to let his conscience be your guide.
BACHELOR—A fellow who never makes the same mistake once.
POET—A person who would rather write than eat.
BIGAMIST—A man who is very broadminded about marriage.
BORE—A person who talks instead of listening to you.
SOCIALIST—A person who has nothing and wants to share it with you.
MORON—A person who is content with a serene mind.
PETTING—A waist effort.
CANNIBAL—A heathen who never works, but lives off of other people.

Natural—
I had sworn to be a bachelor, She had sworn to be a bride; But I guess you know the answer, She had nature on her side.

Effort—
The worms were digging hard, The worms were digging away, The worms were digging away in earnest— Poor Ernest!

REV. J. T. PHARR (Continued from Page 1)
Christian faith is within our own hearts. What are the secret thoughts of your heart? God is anxious that we carve the picture of Christ on our hearts, our wills, and our characters. "Do we remind anyone of Christ by what we say, for “Religion in Shoes” consists of what you are in your temper, what you are in your character. Do we have Christianity in action? Are we able to witness for Him?" Pharr, an alumnus of Davidson, graduated in the class of 1912, and was a member of the varsity football team. He has always been a most loyal alumnus, and each year he gives a gold football to the member of the team who has done the best blocking. He is a member of Q. De K., national honorary leadership fraternity.

REV. W. M. ELLIOT (Continued from Page 1)
...hard but he added “the freest man in the world is one who has Christ for a master.” The second idea was that each one must take up his personal cross, cheerfully, voluntarily, and as something which it is not necessary to do anyway. His closing service on Thursday night drove home the idea that Christianity is only what we make it in our lives. “There is no harder place in the world to really live a Christian life than on the average college campus,” said Mr. Elliot. He left this challenge ringing in our ears, “What is the gospel according to you?”

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 11, 1936

HOMECOMING DANCES (Continued from Page 1)
Kenyon, Washington, Washburn, Ga.; Betty Clabaugh, Birmingham, Ala.; Nell Johnson, Columbia, S. C.; Betty Gilchrist, Courtland, Ala.; Keith Lowry, Johnson City, Tenn.; Grace Robinson, Charlotte; Mary Sarah Sanders, Roxboro; Helen Batte, Chester, S. C.; Sue Statesville; Jane Johnson, Concord; Mary Reople, Memphis, Tenn.; Mantyn Britain, Charlotte; Eleanor Nichols, Greensboro; Jennette Profst, Columbia, S. C.; Florence Pearsall, Wilmington; Henrietta Phillips, Columbia, S. C.; Julia Maslin, Winston-Salem; Jean Flinn, Columbia; Cicie Gaines, Anniston, Ala.

PI KAPPA PHI: Margaret Moore, Shirley Ann Peters, Ann Rish, Florence Hall, Bluefield, W. Va.; Betty Hambright, Clover, S. C.; Tut Atwater, Burlington; Mary Poyner, Raleigh; Adele Staunton, Va.; Margaret C. Smith, Polly Procter, Florence, S. C.; Mary Lib Moore, Charlotte; Sarah Stevens, Winston-Salem; Lit Lovender, Gastonia; Tonita Pearce, Charlotte; Mary Ruth Rudisille, Rock Hill, S. C.; Alice Reeves, Charlotte; Coral Slocum, Wilmington; Rina Davis, Wilmington; Sal Gooch, Staunton; Margaret Smith, Mason, Ridgeway, Va.; Adeline Godfrey, Conway, S. C.; Sandy Sandridge, Charlotte; “Lib” Porter, West Jefferson; Anne Kelly Smede, Gastonia; Severtic McGelu, Roanoke, Va.; and Mary Virginia White, Salem, Va.

SIGMA ALPHA EPSILON: Dolly Nicholson, Union, S. C.; Jennie Ann Efird, Charlotte; Betty Shull, Charlotte; Lib Lucas, Greenville, S. C.; Peggy Beattie, Greenville, S. C.; Martha Britt, Lumberton; Mary Smith, Greenville, Harriett, D. C.; Jean Stough, Cornelius; Margarette Anniston, Ala.; Rose Willingham, Macon, Ga.; Catherine Martin, Smithfield; Annie Lee Moore, Columbia, S. C.; Rosa Powell, Whiteville; Betty Meade Smartt, Chattanooga, Tenn.; Lucy Kebb Winston, Culpepper, Va.; Binkie Bryson, Durham; and Beda Carlson, Greensboro.

KAPPA SIGMA: Alice Rose, Henderson; Marjorie Boggs, Shreveport, La.; Laura Coit, Richmond, Va.; Anne Thompson, Richmond, Va.; Mary Lewis, Albany, Ga.; Elizabeth Johnson, North Wilkesboro; Molly Wagner, Richmond, Va.; Frances McCalia, Little Rock, Ark.; Betsy Meek, Charlotte; Cokey Preston, Washington, D. C.; Peggy Jones, Charlotte; Jean Abbitt, Wilson; “Bunkie” McLendon, Greensboro; Marion Gallway, Greensboro; Micky Mason, Greensboro; Becky Williams, Raleigh; Martha Webster, Greensboro; Frances Grubbs, Greensboro; Johnny Walker, Charlotte; Dot Kittrell, Chattanooga; Nancy Timberlake, Gastonia.

PHI GAMMA DELTA: Helen Bell, Dorothy Creech, Marjorie Pye, Greensboro; Madeline Hurt, Charlotte; Annette Gaines, Greenville, Miss.; Sarah Craig, Raleigh; Winifred Glover, Newnan, Ga.; Isabelle Teague, Montgomery, Ala.; Elizabeth Madison, Petersburg, Va.; Harriette Holland, Jackson, Tenn.; Ruth Whalin, Middlesboro, Ky.; Betty Bonson, Martha Rawlins, “Pinky” Davis, Winston-Salem; Mary Dorcas Harding, Wilson; Mildred Williams, Salisbury; Florence Moore, Wilmington; Rosa Healy, Greenville, Miss.; Willemena Monroe, Davidson, Miss.

PHI DELTA THETA: Gwendolyn Spratt, Jacksonville, Fla.; Pat Jeter, Paris Island, S. C.; Rosa Williams, Boydton, Va.; Virginia Howard, Kinston; Vesta Murray, Columbia, S. C.; Gay Deam, Atlanta; Virginia Shaver, Salisbury; Doris Gambrell, Charlotte; Helen Collins, Shelby; Agnes Porter, Charlotte; Josephine Burroughs, Jacksonville, Fla.; Janie Wariner, Ruffin; Charlean Luther, Beaufort, S. C.; Margaret Wilkerson, Raleigh.

SIGMA PHI EPSILON: Betty Dudley, Augusta, Ga.; Mary Virginia Buckley, Charlotte; Evelyn Lyles, Thomasville; “Tweak” Sample, Fort Pierce, Fla.; Jenny Ruth Smith, Rogersville, Tenn.; Margaret Lyons, Rogersville, Tenn.; Margaret Peoples, Oxford; Betty Perser, Charlotte; Dot Melchor, Mooresville; Betty Bryan, Orlando, Fla.; Jean Orr, Charlotte; Frances Pharr; Betty Baker, Charlotte; Mary McCox, Kinston; Doris Whitfield, Kinston; May Clifton, Newton; Ellen Clifton, Newton; Ruth Crowell, Newton; Emily Worth, Greensboro; Lib Maynard, Charlotte.

The Davidson High School football team was defeated in a close game by Cramerton High last Friday afternoon. The score was 14-0.

For the first time since the cloak of Sugg fell on his shoulders, Kernel feels at the start that he will be able to fill this column; which probably means that he will run dry before the halfway mark is reached. A lot has happened, though, so fire the gun, and we'll be off. (The first guy that says we've been off all year is a so-and-so.)

Might as well begin with the game, the classiest Kernel has yet seen in the South. The game itself was somewhat of a disappointment, but our hat is off to Finest playing against odds we've witnessed in many a day. By the way, our eyes must have played tricks on us Saturday. We understand that one of Carolina’s backs was Little; they all looked BIG to us.

Whoever was responsible for the extra touches that made this homecoming tilt such a spectacle deserves a large bunch of Winchell’s orchids. Girls arriving in especially-painted cars, bands giving novel effects, pennants waving in the stands—all this gave the game what the writers, I'm told, call color. And that color is what keeps Davidson way above the small school class.

Special credit, we feel, is due the band and its director. It’s things like that airplane formation and the step done to “Bolero” that have put our band on the map. Which reminds us, we heard the leader of the Pan-Hellenic’s orchestra remark that we have the best college band in the country: and he oughta know. Our congratulations, tooters, and more power to you.

Not least among the features of the game was the miniature drum-major who won the hearts of his audience before he had taken two steps. Until we saw his face we were tempted to believe him a midget, so well did he do his part.

Anyone who was near the court Thursday and Friday afternoons saw love's labor; anyone who was there late Friday night saw it lost. Arriving at his own lodge about two o'clock Saturday morning, Kernel was hardly able to navigate his way to the front door. Crepe paper sagged to the ground, and little drops of red and black made the future look pretty dark for anybody who wanted to get in, as who didn't? We suppose all the other houses were in about the same shape. Saturday morning, however, saw a transformation, and by noon the court looked pretty presentable. Which is a credit to every fraternity.

Imagine our embarrassment at this point to find that we have left out two of Saturday afternoon’s most attractive attractions. We refer, of course, to our two mascots, Felix and his double. It was a long step in the right direction to have the cat on hand to symbolize the fighting grit that kept us in that game all the way, and we hope that his retirement from the sidelines won't be so permanent from now on. We wonder, by the way, just what the procedure is to get this playful fellow from one cage into another.

While Felix is a quite adequate mascot, he is notorious for his inability to turn flips and stand on his head; hence the need for the substitute. The latter unquestionably deserves an extra portion of raw meat for his performance.

Bagatelles (in imitation of McIntyre, not of Broom): When the lights flickered off and on in warning to leave the fraternity houses Saturday morning, one bundle of feminine charm gurgled, “If that fella'd quit playing and leave ’em off, we might get somewhere.” Got something there, sister! ... that bouncing drummer of Poyner’s would give anybody rhythm... never yet met a girl who didn’t say, “Why, you must know Minnie. She lives in Texas, too.”