Page Six THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 28, 1936

Seven Bands Parade For Saturday’s Fans

Spectators at the Davidson-Citadel game Saturday witnessed not only a thrilling game but also an elaborate band exhibition. Bands from
the following schools participated in the exhibition: Charlotte Central, Charlotte Alexander Graham Junior, Kings Mountain, Lincolnton, Salisbury, and Gastonia.

During the half, the Charlotte Central High band presented two very clever formations. One was the spelling out of Citadel
and the other was the figure of a wagon. When Central High left the field, the Davidson band formed a
large “D” and played “O Davidson.” As soon as the two bands had finished their performance, two crack platoons of
the Citadel cadet corps marched on the field and executed some of the finest drilling we have ever seen here
at Davidson.

O. D. K. HONORS NINE

(Continued from Page 1)

Sam and Blade, Black Keys, Sigma Delta Pi, and senior representative of the Court of Control.

Johnston is a member of the Kappa Alpha fraternity, a member of Scabbard and Blade, secretary-treasurer of the “D” Club,
and a member of the varsity football and track teams.

Overton, a Phi Delta Theta, is financial manager of the Student Store, associate editor of The Davidsonian, and a member
of the International Relations Club, the Court of Control, the Student Council, and Sigma Upsilon literary society.

Quartet Entertains Presbyterian Group

The quartet from the college glee club went to Charlotte last night to sing before the Men’s Club of the
First Presbyterian Church in Charlotte and went to Winston-Salem this morning, accompanied by a freshman quartet, to sing at the
state-wide ministerial convocation.

The quartet includes Paul Hudson, first tenor; John Allen, second tenor; Charles Ramseur, baritone, and W. R. Laws, bass. The
freshman group is composed of Paul Jones, first tenor; Harper Beall, second tenor; W. D. Vaughn, baritone, and Stewart Oglesby,
bass.

MASQUERS TO GIVE

(Continued from Page 1)

(W. B. Gaw) to be married, and a play to be presented on his wedding day. Quince (Tyler Port), Batton
(Chubby All), Flute (Jim Wilson), Snout (Ryburn), Snug (Bill Nicholson), and Starveling (Elmer Hulen), all artisans of Athens, are to
present the play before the Duke and his court. Theseus (Tyler King), the Duke, is to be married before all
Athens.

The first act shows them rehearsing their play, “The Tragedy of Pyramus and Thisbe.” Batton, the burly bellows-mender, thinks he
can play all parts from the lover to the lion. Quince, who directs them, decides to read a prologue and
explain their production to the lords, and sorrowful Flute is to play the girl, Thisbe. As actors, they are all
convulsed.

Davidson Alumni Loyalty Song

Hail! O Davidson, our dear old Alma Mater,
Thy loyal sons undaunted, follow them on, and pledge their loyalty.
Hail! O Davidson, thy classic halls are standing,
Holding them still, in faith and loyalty.
Hail! O Davidson, one hundred years behind thee,
Thy stalwart sons in serried ranks behind thee,
G. M. Maxwell, ’96.

COLLEGE PLANS

(Continued from Page 1)

Homecoming Day is the first observance of Davidson's Centennial Celebration, and the six pressing needs of the College will be
mentioned to the assembled Alumni. These are: a new infirmary, a new gymnasium, a new library, a new Church, a
field house, and a greatly enlarged endowment.

The climax of the day will be the Davidson-University of North Carolina football game on Richardson Field. The kick-off is
scheduled for 2:30.

As a grand finale to the occasion, there will be a dance set that weekend in Charlotte. A formal dance
Friday night, November 6 from 9 until 1; and an informal Saturday night from 8 until 12. Jimmy Poyner and
his orchestra will provide the music.

DR. EDGAR GAMMON

(Continued from Page 1)

to fail in one’s relations to God is worst of all.” — Dr. Gammon gave the four incorrect attitudes which
Judas took, explaining and illustrating each. First, he was activated by the wrong attitude toward life. He wanted to know
where HE fitted in, and he followed Christ so that he might “get in on the ground floor of the
Kingdom.”

Second, Judas took the wrong attitude towards privilege. He had many privileges, yet his life was a failure.

Third, Judas took the wrong attitude toward warning. Jesus tried many ways of warning him, but did not succeed in
stopping him. Judas would not heed.

In the last place, his attitude toward the problem of right and wrong was at fault. He began with that
sin which is so prevalent today—the love of money. Buthe went from bad to worse, from a love of lucre
to covetousness, then to robbery, and finally to betrayal of his Lord. “People who are failures today did not intend
to be so when they started. Sin got the mastery of them.”

TRACKSTERS WHIP
(Continued from Page 4)
seventh, Gilliam, Davidson, eighth, McFadyen, Davidson, ninth, Sharp, Guilford, tenth, New, Guilford, eleventh, Stevenson, Guilford, twelfth, and Miller, Davidson, thirteenth.

COLLEGE MEN MORE
(Continued from Page 5)
consuming passion for nature and every year for the past 25 he has spent a large part of the time
in the woods acting as guide and United States Forest Ranger.

Life—A Bitter Fight
Here are two of his positive opinions: “Life is full of beauty—the beauty of a great adventure; and at its
worst it is full of excitement, the thrill of a grand fight, a bitter fight for survival.”

(Continued from Page 5)
Y Club. They were instructed as to certain aims of the club, especially the Hi-Y motto, which is, “To maintain,
create and extend, throughout the school and community, the high standards of Christian living.” The following accepted the bids extended:
Spencer, Cale, Ed Jim Fulcher, Price Gwynn and Ed Blackwelder, Marion Robert Church, Henry Crane, Erwin, Ward Maxwell.

reel dope
DAVIDSON THEATER
Wed. Oct. 28
WEDDING PRESENT
The picture leans toward its name. With a good cast boasting Joan Bennett, Cary Grant, George Bancroft, Conrad Nagel, Gene
Lockhart. Don't miss this.

* * *
Thurs-Fri. Oct 29-30
DIMPLES
Another one of those charming Shirley Temple pictures. Shirley is as much of a heartbreaker as ever. She is supported
by Frank Morgan, Stepin Fetchit, Delma Byron, Astrid Allwyn. Recommended for all.

Sat. Oct. 31
KELLY THE SECOND
A full-length comedy with plenty of laughs. Patsy Kelly is a scream; Charlie Chase is a riot; ‘Big-Boy” Williams takes
the cake.

Mon. Nov. 2
15 MAIDEN LANE
A swell mystery. Murders, romance, fights and suspense. See it.

* * *
Tues. Nov. 3
CHARLIE CHAN AT THE RACE TRACK
Fine script, good development and hearty humor make this the best of this series to date. Warner Oland sleuths beautifully
in a mystery of a murdered stable owner on his way to Honolulu.

MISS SARAH WITHERS
(Continued from Page 5)
College, and for the past year has held a position with the Soil Conservation Service in Washington. Mr. Currie is
the son of Mr. Dunbar B. Currie and the late Mrs. Currie of Fayetteville. He is a graduate of Davidson
College, and attended the law schools of the University of North Carolina and Georgetown University. He is at present with
the Agricultural Adjustment Administration in Washington.

AMONG THE GREEKS
(Continued from Page 3)
ers of last week were Harry Frampton and Jewel McLaurin. At a recent meeting Louis Hipp, Tom Walker, and Locke
White were initiated into the fraternity.

* * *
PI KAPPA PHI—The girls up for the weekend included the following: Katherine Braham, Batesburg, S. C.; Jean Early, Indianola, Miss.;
Margaret Howe, Belmont; Lib Lavender, Gastonia; Thorline Lillard, Elkin; Sue Lineberger, Belmont; Betty Hunter, Tonita Pearce, Merrill Fetner, Alice Reaves,
and Virginia Smith, of Charlotte. The alumni visitors were Van Patterson, Wallace Tinsley, and Herb Willis. A feed was held
at the house Sunday night.

* * *
PHI GAMMA DELTA—The Brothers who visited their hometowns during the past weekend were: Ernest Dooley, Elmore Holt, Branton, Tyler Port,
Lawrence Reid, George Jones and Pledge Brother Bill Bolin. David Newbold and Wilson Northcross were pledged Sunday night, after which
the chapter enjoyed a feed given by Brother Dick Hayworth.

* * *
DELTA THETA—Brother Myers visited in Gastonia and Brother McKnight journeyed to Spartanburg, S. C. The alumni Brothers of the weekend
were LeGrand, Cothran and Sanders.

* * *
PHI SIGMA PHI EPSILON—Bill Black, Bill Broadway and Walter Heilman were visited by members of their families during the weekend.

DAVIDSON HIGH LOSES
(Continued from Page 4)
Davidson forward wall, while Gibson, Wood and Keener were best in the backfield. Davidson is working hard for a return
engagement with Maiden and other games in the near future. Maiden took a thriller in the first encounter, but Davidson
has shown great improvement and hopes to turn the tables in the next.

(dramatic)
ate member of the Sc and Blade, vice-president of the “D” Club, member of the football and basketball teams. Sugg
is a member of the Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity, secretary of Sigma Upsilon, President of the Forensic Council, Recorder
of the Court of Control, managing associate of the Davidsonian, International Alpha Phi Ep-

N. C. C. P. A. HOLDS
(Continued from Page 1)
by Mr. Herbert Hitt of the Charlotte Engraving Company. The group was ecting the de Da ere th t Nivel
Tac treasurer of the College, toa bang feat nbers Build \¢°7 330° E ¢ { ot ‘iti bi Id Hotel
Cha | B Mr Gett T ( o) he leg ( 1 i ‘ ( ete Risit were the re
( the 1 panic | Ho} Hoet ( uy x association It is ¢ it tl t t ‘ it
High Point I spring and High P entertain.

LECTURES COMMITTEE
(Continued from Page 1)
leave in Germany as a fellow of the Oberlaender Trust, has been secured to give a lecture on his observations
and studies. The date for Professor Pr

Toiletries .. Shaving Cream ... Tooth Paste
SOUTHERN 5 & 10c Store
Prompt and Courteous Service

© 1936, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.
wails
F that really ... This is the first cigarette I ever smoked that satisfies me. Not strong, not harsh and
it has all the flavor and aroma you could ask for. That settles it... from now on, it’s Chesterfield.
