THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 25, 1936

Dr. Lingle Writes Article; Talks to Church Groups
College Head Preaches in High Point; To Speak in Asheboro

Dr. W. L. Lingle spoke at the morning services of the Presbyterian Church of High Point, Sunday, March 22, in
connection with member day, the canvass which every church is conducting in its effort to secure a greater membership. The
High Point Presbyterian Church has recently called the Reverend O. C. Williamson, Davidson class of 1918, to serve in the
capacity of pastor. Dr. Williamson received his doctor's degree from the institution.

Dr. Lingle is to speak...

COLLEGE SYMPHONY (Continued from Page 3)
A Childhood Fantasy—Clifford P. Lillya
Waltz, “The Beautiful Blue Danube”—Johann Strauss, Jr.
Overture to “Semiramide”—Rossini

BROADWAY NOW SHOWING
OUTSTANDING MUSICAL HIT OF PAST YEAR
12 GREAT STARS IN THE BIGGEST DANCING ROMANCE EVER!
DICK POWELL
RUBY KEELER
JACK OAKIE
JOAN BLONDELL
100’s of Hollywood’s Beautiful Girls, Girls, Girls & Girls

Dr. W. L. Lingle Writes Article on Davidson in Monday’s Observer

There appeared in the Monday morning edition of The Charlotte Observer an article, written by Dr. Lingle, entitled “Davidson Fulfills
Ideals.” In this article, Dr. Lingle speaks on the general aspects of the educational institution, the campus, the faculty, and
the student body. He later goes on to call attention to the balanced budget of the educational institution, giving a
very brief history, and includes some excerpts from Miss Shaw's recently published book on the college, entitled “Davidson.” This leads
up to a discussion of celebrated alumni, including Dr. Allport and Dr. Tom Corbin.

TOM CORBIN CHOSEN (Continued from Page 1)
Fred Dennis, Teeny Bill Howard, Andy Kiesewetter, McFadyen, Lawrence Reid, and Bailey Williams were nominated. After the first ballot, Wade,
Fred Dennis, and Barrow were left in the running. Fred Dennis was elected on Monday morning. Thirty-nine freshmen were nominated
by the Athletic Council for the office of secretary-treasurer. After Saturday, those left were: Bob Abell, Bill Boyd, Warren Gaw,
Ned Iverson, John Tice, and Fred Stair. Three were left after the Monday morning voting: Bob Abell, Ned Iverson, and
John Tice.

BALLS FLY (Continued from Page 4)
Practice looks like a real hitter, however, as yet the pitchers have thrown no curve balls. The shortstop position remains
a toss-up between Quick, Moyer, and G. Lindsay, who was a candidate for this post, has been shifted to the
outfield. Both are looking good. In the outfield, Dickson, Partin, Clark, Rogers, and Cumbie are in the lead.

S.P.E.’S WIN HONORS (Continued from Page 4)
The team composed of Friberg, Smith, and Tice led the rest on the final 220-yard stretch. This is the first
year that there has been fraternity competition in track. Heath Whittle believes the addition of the sport to their schedule
is for the better. The trophy awarded offers fraternities an opportunity each year.

COURT ORDER AWAKES PROF.
Harvard Instructor Reprimanded For Negligence By U. S. Supreme Court

(By Associated Collegiate Press)
Cambridge, Mass. (ACP)—The absent-minded professor joke was revived last week. Ralph J. Baker, Harvard professor and member of the bar
of the United States Supreme Court, had mislaid a check for $15.45, mailed to him by a court clerk as
part of a fee for his appearance before the tribunal in 1934. Because the check hadn't been cashed, it was
impossible to close the court’s record in the case. Four letters of inquiry were sent to the professor; he answered
none of them. Finally, he was threatened with disbarment, and that stirred him to action. Dropping all else, he searched
through his papers for four hours, found the check, cashed it, and wrote an apology to the clerk and the
justices. The disbarment action was dropped, but Prof. Baker was “reprimanded for an unjustified failure in a duty owed him
as a member of the bar.” This duty was to answer letters from the Supreme Court.

King’s College, London University, has just founded the only completely autonomous school of journalism in England.

WE APPRECIATE YOUR...

D. C. RIFLEMEN SHOOT MATCH

During the past week, the annual Hearst Trophy match was shot by the Davidson rifle team of the R.O.T.C. Department.
The scores were: G. B. Cleveland, 183 points; R. H. Theiling, 181; W. S. Pharr, 177; A. C. Warlick, 176;
and J. C. McClure, 160. The Hearst Trophy awards cups to the nine highest rifle teams in the districts and
medals to the individuals. G. B. Cleveland, W. S. Pharr, and R. H. Theiling will be awarded letters for making
the rifle team.team. To make these letters a man must be an upperclassman and have shot in at least 75
percent of the matches. Education note: In the South-West, a “soup-bone” is a personal check, and the Dean of Men
is known as the “boot-giver.”

Thursday
The drama behind the lives of the youths of the CCC! “It’s a Great Life” with Paul Kelly, Joe Morrison,
Rosalind Keith, Chic Sale.

Friday and Saturday
The Singing Cowboy, DICK FORAN — in “MOONLIGHT ON THE PRAIRIE”
Also Chapt. Tommy Tailspin
—Also—
Films of the monsters!
O’Mahoney in “CONQUER THE SEA”
Starring STEFFI DUNA

LEROY BLACKWELDER
(Continued from Page 3)
or to Davidson College should not have a chance to enter.” According to Coach Unger, Blackwelder was the strongest man
entered in his weight division. “His losses in the recent tournament can be directly attributed to unfamiliarity with Olympic rules;
but with three weeks of strenuous practice this fault can be overcome.” There is a possibility that the college authorities
will reverse their decision.

Professors at the University of North Carolina can breathe more easily now. For a moment it looked as if students
would go on record asking that professors all take comprehensive examinations in the subject they teach. But they didn't vote
that way. However, they did vote their desire that all professors take compulsory courses in public speaking.

GO TO THE SOUTH SEAS for a thrilling lesson in love!
Fri. Sat.
Beauties in cast of 5,000! Actually filmed in Tahiti—the romantic last outpost of the South Seas!
SEE
—The Bride Raid!
—Mala’s Battle with the Giant Sword Fish!

CHRIST NEEDS NEW LEADERS
Union Theological Seminary, Richmond, Virginia.
(A Serial Advertisement)
To the Christian Students of Davidson College:
In an army there are varied spheres of service and wide divergences in rank, but there is neither variety nor
divergence in the quality of loyalty required. Loyalty recognizes no qualifications. The general need not be more loyal than the
private and the private may not be less loyal than the general. It is so in Christ's army. The same
loyalty is required, whether of Christian business men, lawyers, physicians, industrialists, or ministers. Loyalty is complete, or it is disloyalty.
You may have an impression that Christian business men could be less loyal to Christ than a Christian minister must
be. This is a mistake.
(To be continued in this space later)
(If you would like to see this entire series in one setting write for a copy to Ben R. Lacy,
President, Union Theological Seminary)

AMONG THE GREEKS
(Continued from Page 5)
Mosley, Joe Dees, Bob Line, and Ray Pittman went to Greensboro this past weekend. Charlie Thompson went to Greenville, S.C.

PHI GAMMA DELTA—In recent chapter elections Russell Paterson was made President and Pan-Hellenic council representative, Hal Overton, Treasurer, and Tyler
Port, Secretary. The Cooke brothers and Hal Overton spent the weekend in Greensboro.

PHI DELTA—Breeden, Guerrant, Price, and Tonissen visited Brother Harkins of Asheville the weekend. The usual feed held last Sunday.

PHI EPSILON—T. Mullen of Roanoke Rapids was initiated last Thursday night. Raymond Turner was elected Pan-Hellenic Council representative. Brother Jack
Summerville left this week to spend his spring holidays in Aliceville, Ala.

Just a few drops of Vicks Va-tro-nol up each nostril reduces swollen membranes, clears stuffiness, brings prompt relief. Used in
time, helps prevent many colds.

PATRONAGE—And 1000 Other Thrills!

Wednesday and Thursday
Pauline Lord, Wendy Barrie, Basil Rathbone, Louis Hayward
CAROLE LOMBARD in “Love Before Breakfast”

REGULAR SIZE 30¢ . . . DOUBLE QUANTITY 50¢

WEDNESDAY
ROSA PONSELLE
SATURDAY
NINO MARTINI
KOSTELANETZ ORCHESTRA AND CHORUS
9 P.M. (E.S.T.) - COLUMBIA NETWORK

Did you ever notice the difference in the aroma of Chesterfield tobacco? Every person who knows about tobacco will understand
this... for to get a pleasing aroma is just like getting a pleasing taste from fruit. Mild ripe tobaccos, home-grown,
and blended with the right kind of tobacco from far-off Greece and Turkey (Samsoun, Smyrna, Xanthi, and Cavalla)... that’s why
Chesterfield has a more pleasing aroma.

THETA—Brothers
