— War.” WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 11, 1936 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Five PLAN FOR N. C. SPORTS PRESENTED HERE CLASH IN SATURDAY’S
TILT

Pictured above is one of the Davidson College Alumni Association. Davidson, N.C. orders. Davidson Centennial Plates ($15 per doz.) and
enclose $_------. (1-2 full price) as deposit, the balance to be paid when the plates are delivered. Davidson Centennial Plates
which will commemorate the one hundredth anniversary of the founding of Davidson College. Fashioned by Wedgewood, the plates will be
10 1/4 inches in diameter, with Chambers Building as the center view.

COMMITTEE MEETS FRIDAY AFTERNOON

Last Meeting Held at Commencement, and Next to Come In February

The executive committee of the Board of Trustees of the College met Friday afternoon, Nov. 6 at 3:00 p.m. to
review the work of the college since the last meeting of the Board and to discuss work until the next
meeting of that body. The Board of Trustees held its last meeting at Commencement and its next will be in
February. The Committee will plan such action as may be necessary for the work of the college between now and
the Board’s next meeting. The President, Dr. Walter L. Lingle, and the treasurer, Mr. F.L. Jackson, made rather full reports
to the committee concerning the work and finances of the college. The Executive Committee is composed of ten members of
the Board of Trustees, six of whom are members of the Alumni association and four chosen from the Concord, Mecklenburg,
and Winston-Salem Presbyteries. Dr. R. A. Dunn, President of the Board of Trustees is ex-officio Chairman of the Committee, Mr.
S. A. Robinson, Secretary of the Board, is ex-officio secretary of the Executive Committee. Dr. Dunn is from Charlotte, Mr.
Robinson from Gastonia. The other members of the Committee are Mr. I. P. Graham of Cooleemee; Rev. A. A. McLean
of Lenoir; Dr. C. R. Wilcox of Rome, Ga.; Dr. J. McDowell Richards of Decatur, Ga.; Mr. W. S. Richardson
of Greensboro; Mr. W. J. Roddey of Rock Hill, S. C.; Mr. S. Clay Williams of Winston-Salem, and Dr. H.
W. McKay of Charlotte.

DEPUTATIONS ARE SENT OUT BY DAVIDSON YMCA

The Davidson Y. M. C. A. sent out three deputations Sunday to churches in nearby towns. J. H. Gailey and
Tom Baker went to the Cornelius Presbyterian Church, where they conducted the Christian Endeavor program. Baker had charge of the
program at the meeting. Both men spoke on the subject, ‘Christianity Condemns War.’ Al Bixler and Leonard Fisher went to
the Hopeville Presbyterian Church, where they spoke to the Christian Endeavor and led the program.

Around Town

Mr. and Mrs. Walter Sprunt, of Wilmington, visited in Davidson last weekend. Mr. Sprunt is an alumnus of Davidson College.

Dr. and Mrs. A. V. Goldiere, Mrs. Oscar Thies and Toto Thies went to Lenoir for a visit last week.

The following girls were home for Homecoming weekend: Misses Goudylock Erwin, Margaret Douglas, Mary Louise Toffert, Helen Cumnock, Elizabeth Agnes
Brown, Dorothy Johnston, Miriam Goodrum, and Mary Withers.

Miss Hibernia Hassel, a student at Agnes Scott College, was a guest in Davidson last weekend.

Major and Mrs. J. I. Ballard took a trip to the mountains of North Carolina last week.

Mrs. W. N. McShane gave a tea on Thursday afternoon for her mother, Mrs. S. A. Spotts, who has been
visiting in Davidson this past week.

Fifteen students of the Davidson High School made the Honor Roll for September.

Mr. Sidney Marsh, an alumnus of Davidson College, spent the weekend in Davidson for Homecoming.

The Auxiliary Committee sent large boxes of clothes to Grandfather Orphanage last week. Also, they collected books for the Colored
School in Davidson.

Many of the local members of the Hi-Y club plan to take their fathers to the “Father and Son” banquet
to be held in Charlotte on November 13.

The Davidson Choral Club met last Wednesday evening in the college banquet hall. Mr. Babcock led the practice in the
absence of Mr. Pfohl. The following were elected as officers: Mrs. J. P. Williams, President, Mrs. Gene McEver, Secretary and
Treasurer, and Miss Hattie Thompson, Accompanist.

Davidson Theatre

Wed. Nov. 11
A WOMAN REBELS
Starring Katherine Hepburn

Thurs. Nov. 12
STATE FAIR
Starring Will Rogers and Janet Gaynor.

Fri. Nov. 13
THE ROAD TO GLORY
A magnificent war story, with Fredric March, Warner Baxter, Lionel Barrymore and Gregory Ratoff.

Sat. Nov. 14
PIGSKIN PARADE
A Fast and Furious Football Story That Will Thrill Everyone. With a cast of Stuart Erwin, Patsy Kelly, Jack Haley,
Betty Grable, and Judy Garland.

Color choices: Blue... Rose... Red... Pink... Green... Mulberry...

When plates are ready please ship to:
Address _______________
Signed _______________
Class _______________

LIBRARY ADDS RECENT BESTSELLERS

Recent Additions Include Books By Sandburg and Four Southerners

With the arrival of the last shipment of books, the library now has all the recent best-selling novels, many of
which have only come out in the last month. The three leading novels of the last month are Aldous Huxley’s
Eyeless in Gaza, Carl Van Doren’s Three Worlds, and the Atlantic $10,000 Prize Novel for 1936, I Am the Fox
by Winifred Van Etten. Three Bags Full is another popular novel by Roger Burlingame, which has appeared very recently. Huxley’s
novel shows in all its futility, its sexual excesses, its social absurdity, its intellectual snobbery, its false values, its evasion
of the realities of modern life, the modern world, and the modern man and woman.

Three Bags Full is a novel of New York State, which is spoken of as a long, lusty, vigorously American
novel which is history come to life. Van Doren presents a picture of American behavior, ideals, and intellectual interests in
his story of an American and America through the Pre-War, Post-War, Depression eras. The title for Van Etten’s book derives
from the attitude of the heroine whose heart tells her that marriage with the one who loves her means security,
but whose mind sees him as the huntsman and herself as the fox. A wonderful and fascinating set of provincial
character studies add life and realism to this book.

Another recent success is The Big Money by John Dos Passos. It has been enthusiastically reviewed by magazines such as
Time and The Saturday Review. The People, Yes, is the long poem from which Carl Sandburg read selections at his
lecture here recently. Those who heard the lecture will be anxious to enjoy to the full the legends and myths,
the tall tales and sayings, the proverbs and wisdom contained in this poem. Four Southern novels have also recently attained
prominence and have been added to the present collections. Green Margins, by E. P. O'Donnell, is a prize novel dealing
with life on the lower Mississippi delta. It is a tale of vitally alive people, told in living words, foam-flecked
and salty.

Springfield College, Springfield, Mass., has received an Olympic cup it won 16 years ago. The belief that left-handed persons are
slightly abnormal, says Dr. Samuel T. Orton of Columbia, is just another piece of folklore. Delegates to the Psi Upsilon
convention went on record as opposing punishment in connection with initiation.

CARS FOR RENT
M. P. Henderson
GULF GAS & OIL

This weekend was a gala occasion for all fraternity court with keen hopes of winning the decorating award. Each fraternity
gaily dressed its house and Saturday afternoon each house was full and running over with friends of the fraternity and
with alumni who were returning to meet the brothers.

Beta Theta Pi—
The Betas celebrated Homecoming with a banquet Saturday night at Hotel Charlotte. John Smith acted as master of ceremonies. Dr.
W. L. Lingle, president of the college, made the principal talk for the occasion. After the formal dance Friday night
the brothers with their dates returned to the house, where they enjoyed a feed and a social hour. Alumni who
visited the chapter during the past weekend were as follows: John L. Smith, J. M. Winn, W. O. Nesbitt, John
T. Roddey, Tommy Miller, Billy Atwater, Dab Atwater, Bill Hobbs, Dave Stocks, Fred Smyre, Granger Willing, Williams, Lewis Bulwinkle, Sam
Robinson, Jim Pinckney, Frank Holt, R. C. Davis, D. Vass and Marlee Miah. The members gathered at the house Sunday
night for the customary feed.

Pi Kappa Phi—
During the weekend many alumni visited the house, among whom were Mitchell Arrowsmith, “Goof” Warren, Mac Alderman, Van Patterson, Bill
Deverie, Mills Taylor, Herb Wills, Alex Rowles, Bobby Burgess, Tom Cameron, Heath Howie, and Boggs Corbin. Friday night following the
dance the brothers with their dates had a feed at the house. An all-day feed was held Saturday.

Kappa Alpha—
Friday night following the formal dance in Charlotte, the members of Kappa Alpha returned to their fraternity house, where they
enjoyed an informal party. Many alumni visited the chapter during the weekend, among whom were Scotty McLeod, Jim Batt, Tom
Downie, Baxter Yarborough, and Hata. The fraternity held a banquet in Charlotte Saturday night at the S. and W. Cafeteria.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon—
The fraternity members and friends returned to the house Friday night following the dance and had a feed. After the
football game Saturday afternoon another feed was spread in honor of the alumni and friends who visited the chapter. The
returning alumni included K. D. Weeks, Bob Kornegay, Ras Evans, Jerome Clark, Arthur Ross, Harris Barksdale, Pi Mickley, and Bill
Cely.“Puddy” Newton, Lamont Brown, John Douglas, Archie Shatford, Lilly Merchant, Scott Shepherd, Bob Nat Speir, Norman McCulloch, Munroe, and Stokes.
The members had a feed night. Bobby Florence were as follows: Everett, Culloch, Munroe. Sunday spent the weekend in Lexington.

Kappa Sigma—Following the dance Friday night, their dates and friends returned to the house, where they enjoyed a feed and
a short social hour. After the game Saturday, refreshments were served to visiting alumni and friends. The visiting alumni were
W. T. Thompson, W. M. Thompson, Charlie Thompson, Mack Holland, Bud Shemwell, Ben Rose, John Pearce, Charlie Pearce, Howard Summerall,
Tom Morrison, Doorah Furgerson, Hank Loffin, Mal Grimes, Bob Lindsey, Penny Garrison, and Paul Pittman.

DON’T GO TO CHARLOTTE — Try the — SOUTHERN 5 & 10c Store. Anything and Everything.

Beta alumnus of the college act John Anderson acted as toastmaster. Following the event, fellow alumni brothers C. Steagall, District
Grand Master of Kappa Sigma from Spartanburg, S.C., spent Sunday with the chapter. Young Thompson has returned from Gastonia, where
he was confined for weeks. Carl Carlson spent Sunday with his parents in Greensboro.

Phi Gamma Delta—Friday night after the dance in Charlotte, a feed was held at the house, where after eating, all
joined in singing Fiji songs. Saturday morning, many others came, and after the big football game, another informal feed took
place at the house when some of the Carolina chapter were present. Saturday night after the dance at the Charlotte
Armory, the chapter entertained with a breakfast at Hotel Charlotte. Geddie Monroe, class of '35, was toastmaster and called for
many informal talks. Among the alumni present were W. Thomas, Pittsburgh; Pat Glover, Jr., Greenville, Miss.; Burney Howard, M. Vaz,
John P. Salem; George I. Borg, Val W. Coleman, Greenville, Miss.; Mr. Monroe, Longhorn, Wilson, Fort Bragg; Stove, Belmont; Lester
Winston Salem; Ed Mott, N. Hall, Belmont; Clarksdale, Kav Doubles, Richmond; Siewers Winston; Guilette, of Blacksburg; Branton, Wilamne, Texas; N.C.;
Robert Creech, Greensboro; M. Charles C. Sisson, Miss.; J. B. Goslen, Winston-Salem; Guilford Patterson, Charlotte; Geddie Monroe, Fayetteville; McKeithan, Cameron;
Hill Don Chip Lowe; Leland Monroe, Fayetteville; Winston-Salem; John Creech, Carl Long, Fries, Winston-Salem; Hall Theo, Winston-Salem; Vat, Foster, Frank
Hall, Dave Hall of Belmont.

Phi Delta Theta—The weekend's outstanding feature was a banquet held in the Hotel Charlotte Saturday night at 7:30 o'clock. Mr.
Roland Parker, Dean of Students at Darlington Prep School and one of the founders of the local chapter of Phi
Delta Theta, was the speaker for the occasion. The master of ceremonies was alumnus Bob Glasgow. Those who visited the
chapter during the weekend were Johnny Latterts, John Partridge, Carlyle Uncle Sanders, Howard McPhail, Keith Wilkins, John O'Keefe, Frank Pearce,
Baron Har-Carter, V. T. Genette, Jimmie Morrison, Julian West, John Newton, Dick LeGrand, Paul Arrowwood, and Bill McKnight. A feed
was held at the house following the dance Friday night. John Chalk spent a few days at his home in
Rockingham.

Sigma Phi Epsilon—After the dance Friday night, the members returned to the house with their dates, where they were served
hot chocolate and doughnuts. Alumni and brothers visiting the chapter this weekend were Emmett Shackelford, Odie Casali, Sam Daniel, Riley
Satterfield, John McInnis, William Yancey, Sam Ryburn, Charlie Gold, and Frank Taylor.

Pi Kappa Alpha—The alumni who visited the chapter during the weekend were K. Alumni Lewis, Charlie Hamrick, Wills Hollingsworth, John
Atackorell, Henry Cathey, Shields, Virgil Shultz, and Charles Harrison. Brothers visiting from the Tau Chapter at the University of North
Carolina were Tim Currie, Bill Holland, and Gene Yount. Other visitors for the Homecoming celebration were Mr. and Mrs. Crisp,
Mr. and Mrs. Knorr, Mrs. Holt, Miss Dorothy Coates, and Mr. and Mrs. Graham George. The brothers enjoyed a feed
after the dance Friday night and another given in honor of the Homecoming guests following the game Saturday afternoon.

Colleges Now Discussing Graham Plan Substitute

An “Athletic Manifesto” setting forth the ideals toward which the College Conference urges every member institution to strive most earnestly
as a goal. It is recognized that our colleges and universities are educational institutions in which intellectual attainments are paramount.
The purpose of athletics and physical education is to equip our young men and women physically as far as possible,
to carry the burden, whether mental, moral, or physical, that may be theirs to bear in years to come, while
keeping them physically fit for the tasks of the day during their four years or more in college or university.
All students require diverting forms of recreation, which need may be met in large measure by athletics. Athletic contests between
competing groups call for quick thinking, prompt coordination of mind and muscle, so that athletics has a positive contribution to
make toward the mental development of the student. Athletics in college at the same time offers unrivaled opportunities for moral
training in honesty, fair play, truthfulness, respect for others, cooperation, sportsmanship, and fair dealings in all the relationships of life.
Any public athletic function that fails to keep the main purpose of athletics and physical education in view or fails
to illustrate as fully as possible the moral virtues enumerated above, casts a shadow over the institution concerned. In view
of the foregoing, it is imperative:

(a) That every form of professionalism should be banished from each institution and frowned upon by everyone in any way
identified with a single institution.
(b) That the same standard of ethics should prevail in football and all other forms of athletics as prevails in
other departments of an institution.
(c) That the cultural equipment and standards of those charged with the physical training of students should correspond with the
cultural standards of those in other responsible positions in the institution.

Well-known forms of professionalism include the following:
(i) Demands by alumni for the removal of coaches, while they do not demand the removal of professors of corresponding
efficiency, thus making the tenure of his position by a coach a precarious matter.
(ii) The payment of a larger salary to a coach than is received by other heads of departments in the
institution.
(iii) The existence of an athletic association or athletic control that is independent or semi-independent of the administration of the
institution in finance or otherwise.
(iv) The receiving or using of funds by an athletic association or other organized group to induce students to go
to a given institution for athletic purposes when such funds are not equally available for students who are not athletic.
(v) Negotiation with any student already enrolled at one institution with a view to inducing him to sever this connection
and enroll at another institution, especially vicious are the instances of persons claiming to represent one institution going to another
institution with financial offers to induce the student to leave the campus and the dormitory where he has just been
installed and enrolled for classes and to go to another institution for athletic purposes.
(vi) The granting of a sinecure of any kind to an athletic student that is not granted by the same
organization to students who are not athletic.

We recognize that the proper duty of coaches is to give physical training to students brought to an institution through
the usual testing agencies. Any activities of the coach, his staff, or his agents in an effort to solicit athletes
from secondary schools is out of harmony with the dignity and educational significance of his position. Unethical practices that should
be suppressed at all institutions:
(a) Persuading an outstanding athlete to engage in a sport, even on a particular occasion, when this is likely to
do the student permanent or long-persisting injury.
(b) The making of any secret financial arrangements with athletic students or coaches, such as are not made with other
students and professors.
(c) The unwillingness to bring into the open any features of athletics or its supporters, in the same sense that
other departments of an institution and its participants are in the open.
(d) The use of profanity, vulgarity, obscenity, or coarseness of any kind by coaches on duty that professors do not
use in the classroom, or the use of language by participants in athletics such as the same students do not
use in the classroom.
(e) Willingness to injure an opponent in a sport for the sake of winning a game.
(f) Toleration by an institution of any coach possessing a moral character that would not be tolerated if the person
were a professor.
(g) The permitting of drunkenness and “rough house” at athletic public functions or spectacles, such as would not be tolerated
at other public functions of an institution.

We believe that the cultural standards of an institution are lowered when it employs coaches who have not availed themselves
of such cultural privileges as come with a full appreciation of the finer things of life. Thomas W. Lingle, Chairman,
Davidson College. Raymond Binford, Guilford College. Chas. S. Mangum, University of N.C.—Committee.

NYAL “2 for 1” SALE. BUY 2 AND SAVE ON EVERYDAY DRUG NEEDS, HOME REMEDIES, RUBBER GOODS, TOILETRIES, STATIONERY. SPECIAL
— College Pharmacy — This Week Only. Davidson’s Service Drug Store.
