THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 23, 1936

OFFICIALS DIFFER FORMER RULES EXPOSED | COACH UNGER RESIGNS | NINE DAVIDSON SENIORS | CANTOR OFFERS ENTIRE | advocate. | certain that the win- IN OLD WILDCAT BOOK AS MAT SQUAD TUTOR | NAMED FOR WHO’S WHO | EDUCATION IN CONTEST | ning letter will be one worthy to bring before millions of Americans a grateful to Mr. PHEASANT Gale (Continued from Page 1) tion, Manager of the Student Store, any kind, nor send in stamps, nor of peace. I’m very grate- ON GRID PROBLEMS (Continued from Page 1) (Continued from Page 1) (Continued from Page 1) as another link in the strong chain Subsidization and Drunkenness Are Major Problems Faced By Coaches MANY CHANGES URGED Death of Intercollegiate Football Is Foreseen

York—(ACP) Intercollegiate football faces increased drunkenness and was laid squarely on the schools themselves. For incidents such as Dartmouth’s twelfth man against Princeton, and the tearing down of the goal posts before the completion of the Princeton-Yale game, the schools have themselves to blame. 

Cadets Upset; Girls Must Go Female Dancers Banned At West Point As Students Lose “Equilibrium” (By Associated Collegiate Press) West Point (ACP) The “equilibrium” of United States cadets must be preserved. Female dancing partners at West Point’s dancing classes last year have been banned. When Mr. and Mrs. George Roberts, of Tulsa, Okla., went to the academy to teach dancing to those of the cadets who didn’t know how, they took along as accompanists two young women from their dancing school. It was a good idea, but it didn’t work. “The young ladies disturbed the equilibrium of the cadets learning to dance,” it was explained. The two dancing partners who came so near upsetting the academy said they had “a swell time” and celebrated.

Co-captain of the football team, Newton D. Baker, for so kindly suggesting the title, solve a crossword puzzle. All one has to do is to sit down and write a straightforward letter on ‘How Can America Stay Out of War?’ The competition will close Saturday, February 22nd. The judges will visit all the rooms in college and observe their condition. The occupants shall open the door and allow the judges to inspect the rooms. In case admittance is refused, the judge may forcibly enter. The award will be announced by Cantor on Sunday, April 5th. All letters are to be addressed to Eddie Cantor, General Post Office, Box 1, New York City.

Plan Gala Banquet After Dance Saturday Night

Carlton Chapman is a member of Phi Delta Theta, Social Fraternity, Phi Beta Kappa, Omicron Delta Kappa, Sigma Epsilon, International Relations Club, Gamma Sigma Epsilon, and Pi Delta Alpha. He is president of the Student Body and president of the Student Council.

Dan Griffin is a member of Phi Delta Theta, Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and the Keys. Davidson Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, andHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

DAVIDSON, N. C. a } tablished, or such as Omicron Delta Kappa, Seabbard and Blade, Sigma Delta Pi, “D” Club, and Co-captain of the football team. 

SPECIAL: 15¢ Waffles Tuesdays and Fridays

DAVIDSON OFF THE RECORD

Thursday Only - “HI GAUCHO”

Friday and Saturday BOB STEELE in “ALIAS JOHN LAW” and “STOUT HEARTS and STOUT SOLES”

Monday and Tuesday LEE TRACY in “TWO FISTED”

Wednesday Only - “SHIP CAFE” Carl Brisson—Arline Judge

UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY RICHMOND, VIRGINIA NOW IN ITS 124th YEAR Training for the Sacred Ministry of the World and for Pastoral, Educational and Missionary Service in the Church.

MATINEE 15¢ NIGHT 20¢

QUALITY “Sudden Service” BUFF SHOE SHOP

HARDWARE DRY GOODS RADIOS

This picture shows how the Jamestown Colonists exchanged tobacco for brides. They paid “120 pounds of the best leaf” for transportation of each future wife who came to the New World from England. And here is a picture of the modern auction warehouse of today where the same type of leaf tobacco is sold on the open market to the highest bidder.

There is no substitute for mild, ripe tobacco to make a good cigarette—and there never will be... and that is the kind we buy for Chesterfield Cigarettes. In the tobacco buying season, all these tobacco men are Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.; trained in the tobacco business, buyers will be found at 75 markets where the Bright type of tobacco is sold, and 36 markets where Burley and other types of tobacco are sold. Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.; for better taste. © 1936, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.