WE'VE BEAT STATE  
ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA  
The Davidsonian  
LIBERTAS  
LET'S BEAT NAVY  
VOL. XXIV  
DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., SEPTEMBER 30, 1936  
NO. 2  

WILDCATS HAND WOLFPACK 6-2 TRIMMING  

One Hundred And Twelve Men Pledge Fraternities After Week of Rushing  
Nine Greek Societies Issue Bids to Rushees on September 21  
NEOPHYTES WEAR PINS  
Pan-Hellenic Council Prohibits Rushing Off Campus  

One hundred and twelve men signified their acceptance of the bids of the nine fraternities on the Davidson campus Tuesday night, September 22. Rushing season began Monday, September 14 and lasted until 10 P.M., Monday night, September 21. Tuesday was the day of silence, and Tuesday night at 9 o'clock each rushee manifested his choice by going to the house of the fraternity whose bid he had decided to accept. The nine fraternities announce the pledging of the following men:  

Beta Theta Pi—Bill Burch of Reidsville; Carey Dowd, Dandridge Isom, Bill Martin and Gales McClintock of Charlotte; Albert McAuley of Mt. Gilead; Tom McKnight of Memphis, Tenn.; Charlie Pegram of Petersburg, Va.; Bob Ramsey of Jonesboro, Ark.; and Charlie Smith of Wytheville, Va.  

Pi Kappa Alpha—Charlie Akers and Rufus Allison of Charlotte; Jim Anderson of Greenville, S. C.; Lloyd Charley, Charlottesville, Va.; George Coates, Jr., of Atlanta; Durette Coltrane of Concord; Dick Henning of Albemarle; Bob Miller, Jr., of Welch, W. Va.; Allen Parker of High Point; Roger Rice, Jr., of Reidsville; W. F. Stephenson of Columbia, Tenn.; Hugh Willis of Culpepper, Va., and Glen Grier.  

Kappa Alpha—Humphrey Brown of Goldsboro; Willard Dixon and Ted Schabel of Memphis; Jimmie Dunford of Petersburg, Va.; Ross Gladden of Marion and Paul McGarrity of Charlotte; Rex Lauck of Washington, D. C.; Tom Perrin of Spartanburg, S. C.; David Sprunt of Wilmington; Dick Winters of West Palm Beach, Fla.; Howard Woodward of Quincy, Fla.  

Sigma Alpha Epsilon—Tom Crichton of Shreveport, La.; James Currie of Charlotte; Billy French, Charles Fuller, and Alderman McLean of Lumberton; George Gray of Scottsboro, Ala.; Alex James and Ben Jacobs of Atlanta, Ga.; Jean Myers of Laurinburg; Harrison of Milan, Tenn.; Buck Powell of Whiteville; Jim Thomas of Ramseur; and Bob Wood of Davidson.  

Kappa Sigma—Will Black, Ed Glenn, Hunter, and Charles Yates of Greensboro; Karl Hutson and Bill Ross of Raleigh; Jimmie Cooper and Ed Watkins of Henderson; Teddy Parker of Eastover, S. C.; Boo Walker of Steele Creek; Marvin Sours of Charlottesville, Va.; Tom McAlpine of Hartsville, S. C.; and Stewart Oglesby of Atlanta.  

Phi Kappa Phi—Jim Ballard, Jr., (Continued on Page 6)  

Library Will Display Works Of Sandburg  

In connection with the scheduled lecture by Carl Sandburg here, a special display of some of his representative works is being arranged in the library. Included in the display will be critical and biographical works about him. Sandburg, who will be in Davidson September 12, comes as one of the best known and most popular of present-day American poets, one of the leaders in the modern movement toward free verse. Although he is primarily a poet, Sandburg is well-known as a biographer, having written a best-selling biography on Abraham Lincoln. This lecture is presented by the Lecture Committee of the college, composed of Professors E. F. Shewmake, C. K. Brown and H. T. Lilly. It is free, and friends of the college as well as students are invited.  

Students Vote Navy Game To Single Cut  

As a result of voting in chapel, Friday, September 25, students of Davidson will get single cuts for the weekend of the Davidson-Navy game to be held at Annapolis, October 3. These cuts will begin Friday, October 2 and continue through until Monday morning, October 5. All classes missed during this period will be chargeable with only one absence instead of the customary two. Voting was practically unanimous in favor of the Annapolis game weekend. The only other weekend concerned was that of the Davidson-Furman game, to be played October 31 at Greenville.  

COLLEGE HEARS MOFFETT TALK  
Speaker Chooses His Text From I Corinthians For Sunday Address  

Dr. H. M. Moffett, pastor of the Davidson Presbyterian Church, spoke to the students of the college at the Sunday night, September 27, vesper service in Chambers Auditorium. Dr. Moffett chose as the scripture reading the opening verses from the Epistle of James in which the writer exhorts all men to have faith and tells them to rejoice in temptations as a means of strengthening this faith. The text was taken from the 16th chapter of the First Epistle of Paul to the Corinthians, “Watch ye, stand fast in the faith, quit you like men, be strong.” Paul is urging us to take these words as a guide as we choose the paths along which our lives shall run. They apply to us just as strongly as they did to the people of Corinth nearly two thousand years ago. The speaker pointed out that this is a changing world and therefore a testing world, which tells us that things of primary importance are still primary, and things of secondary importance are still secondary. We must constantly be on our guard against sin, and be ready to face life’s issues with our best. Sin is still sin, despite the recent writings of some authors, and Jesus is still the way. (Continued on Page 6)  

Dixon Is Chosen As Junior Cheer Leader  

Willard Dixon received a majority of ballots over Sam Ryburn, last Wednesday in the race to determine the fourth Junior cheer leader. The other assistants to Senior Cheer Leader Gene Vogler are: Elmore Holt, Jerry Harris, and Wade Barrow. They were elected on the first ballot. The full squad of cheer leaders had their first chance to perform as such at the pep meeting last Friday night in the stadium. Working with a large body of noisy students, they drew out cheers that resounded loudly from the other side of the stadium. Between cheers, Vogler took the opportunity of warning freshmen that the names of those who attend the next pep meeting may be taken and those whose names are found missing to be reported to the court of control. He added that he hoped a large attendance at future meetings would make such steps unnecessary. At the close of the meeting Vogler reminded freshmen that they are expected to have learned the cheers by this time.  

BOSTON ORCHESTRA FIRST ON PROGRAM OF CONCERT SERIES  
Arthur Fiedler Directs Sinfonietta in Concert at Chambers Auditorium  
VARIED PROGRAM GIVEN  
Many Students and Music Lovers Are Present  

The Boston Sinfonietta, under the direction of Arthur Fiedler, was heard last Monday night, September 28 in the first concert of the current series being presented in Chambers Auditorium. The concert of this ensemble, made up of members of the world-famous Boston Symphony Orchestra, was attended by a large number of college students and an exceptionally large group of music lovers from the neighboring towns. The program presented by the organization was widely varied and included the classical works of the old masters as well as representative selections from the contemporary impressionistic and modernistic schools. Especially interesting was their presentation of Ibert’s Divertissement, the orchestration of which calls for the full use of the little symphony. The program was made up of two groups, the first of which included the Overture to Mozart's “Marriage of Figaro,” and the four movements of Mozart’s Symphony in C Major, “Jupiter.” In the second group were, Debussy’s “Petite Suite;” Lalo’s “Two Aubades;” Wagner's “Dreams,” a violin solo by Gaston Eleus; and Ibert’s “Divertissement.”  

ALUMNI JOURNAL IS “FOOTBALL NUMBER”  
Query, Lingle, Beaty, and Moyer Write Articles  

The opening issue of the Alumni Journal, called the “Football Number,” appeared today under the editorship of Fred Smith, new secretary of the Alumni Association. The front cover features a novel photographic study of the Davidson football squad while an advertisement of Homecoming displays the Wildcat football players. Fred Smith, editor of the Journal, wrote an article entitled “Aces in Journalism,” which appears in this issue, and deals with Davidson graduates who have been successful in magazine or newspaper work. Mr. Hugh Query, editor of the Gastonia Gazette, submitted an article concerning Davidson’s debut into the Southern Conference. Dr. Walter L. Lingle is author of an article entitled, “Centennial Year Offers Opportunity,” appearing in the Journal. Among other stories is one by Professor Ernest A. Beaty, about the new Alumni Secretary and one by Elwood Moyer, of the Class of '38, summing up the first two football games of the current season. Five thousand copies were printed, which were sent to every Davidson alumnus.  

Pictorial Appears As Davidsonian Feature  

The Davidsonian has announced that the College Digest will appear every week as it has in years past. The Digest circulated for the first time today, is a brown rotographic section containing snapshots and action pictures taken at different colleges throughout the United States. The College Digest is circulated with practically every college paper in the country.  

AMBASSADOR WILL PLAY FOR COLLEGE DANCE  
Dances to Be Held October 9-10 in the Hotel Charlotte Ballroom  
CATS-V. M. I. TO TANGLE  
Pan-Hellenic Council to Sponsor Six Dances  

Id Armfield, president of the Pan-Hellenic Council, announced Monday that Joe Burke’s Duke Ambassadors have been secured to play for the initial dance set of the season which will be given October 9-10 in the ballroom of the Hotel Charlotte. There will be two dances, a formal on Friday night from 10:00 to 2:00, and an informal Saturday night from 8:00 until 12:00. Tickets for the two dances will probably be three dollars, it was stated. The ballroom of the Hotel Charlotte has been remodeled and renovated for dancing, and should prove a very attractive setting for the dances. It was first planned to have the first dances at Homecoming, but by popular request the Pan-Hellenic Council decided to have this first set in October. The date is the same time as the Davidson-V. M. I. football game, and since this is both the first home game, and the first dance set, it is expected that the weekend will be a gala occasion. The Pan-Hellenic Council is planning to give six dance sets this year. After the V. M. I. dance there will be the Homecoming dance November 7. The Sophomore Week-end set falls the first of December. Mid-Winter is the first.Kbot, the mid Junior, will be Bowery the third week in December, and the middle of March. Speaking, and closed the Ball, will be in April. The season will come with the notorious Mid-Winters dance.

(Continued on Page 6)

Last Seven Seminary Men are Alumni

Seven Davidson College graduates were included in the class of 33 incoming students enrolled at the opening of the Union Theological Seminary Wednesday, September 16. The list includes James Salango of Beckley, W. Va., class of 1936; Claude C. Swain, Winston-Salem, N. C., class of 1930; William M. Thompson, Richmond, Va., class of 1934; John Mack Walker, Jr., Charlotte, N. C., class of 1936; Clyde H. Dubose, Pocomoke City, Md., class of 1930; David Alexander Bowles, Fayetteville, N. C., class of 1936; Samuel Nisbet Milton, Albemarle, N. C., class of 1936.

Dr. Ben R. Lacy, Jr., president, delivered a brief opening address in the Seminary chapel as the institution held the first exercises of its 125th session. He welcomed the students. Dr. Ernest Trice Thompson, professor of church history, who delivered the main address, chose as his subject “Southern Presbyterians: What We Can Learn from the Past.” He traced the history of the denomination and pointed out that the Church has not lived up to its opportunity, and that much might be gained by a study of the past.

The Seminary will have the services again this year of Mr. Henry M. Brimm, librarian, who has returned from a year of study at Columbia University’s Library School. Dr. W. T. Thompson, professor of Christian Education, will be absent for the first month of the session. He is preaching throughout the South in connection with the National Preaching Mission.

LITERARY MAGAZINE NAMED ‘SCRIPTS ‘N PRANKS’ BY EDITOR

Publication Will Appear Four Times During Year, Dates Undecided

NOT ENTIRELY LITERARY

Yowl’s Successor Will Carry On Humor Tradition

“Scripts ’n Pranks” will be the name of Davidson's new magazine, revealed Hal Overton, editor-in-chief, on Monday morning. And then he added, “Tell the critics this: ‘That we feel the name is just like the weather—better than none at all.’” Scripts ‘n Pranks is the successor to last year’s Yowl. It will appear four times during the year, though the definite publication dates have not yet been announced. Instead of containing only jokes, poems, cartoons, and humorous articles, as did the Yowl of last year, this magazine will also have a number of serious articles and fiction by members of the student body. But “please emphasize,” pleaded the editor, “that it will still contain humor. Many of the boys have the idea that it will now be entirely literary, but this is not so.”

The staff of the publication will be as follows: Editor-in-chief, Hal Overton; Managing Editors, Mac Covington and Dick Vowles; Art Editor, Sam Ryburn; Associate Editors, Harold Sugg, Bob Johnston, and Gibb Smith. The first meeting of the staff will be (Continued on Page 6)

Homecoming Week-End To Be Gala Occasion

Plans have been made for a record-breaking Homecoming celebration here on Saturday, November 7. The traditional Davidson-Carolina football game will be featured. The annual Alumni Luncheon, the biggest ever, is planned for 12:30 that day. Other features of the day's celebration will be a band concert and parade, fraternity house parties, and a big and novel spectacle between the halves of the Davidson-Carolina game. Beautiful girls, as sponsors of both Carolina and Davidson, will be presented to the spectators and given flowers.

BAND ATTENDS

Play in Homecoming Parade at Durham, Also at State-Davidson Game

Leaving Davidson at 6:00 Saturday morning, September 26, the Davidson College band journeyed to Durham, N.C., to play in the homecoming parade there and at the Duke-Colgate game that afternoon, then left immediately for Raleigh where they played at the Davidson, N. C. State game Saturday. They returned to Davidson early Sunday morning. The first stop made by the travelers was in Greensboro, where all hands piled out for breakfast. During their trip, they were met several miles out of Durham by two members of the police force who furnished them a motorcade through the city to attend the parade sponsored by the Chamber of Commerce and Duke University. The Davidson band was the only college band in the parade, and they were given a place of honor. The band was led by a drum major and a drum majorette, both of whom were decorated to the hilt. The Davidson band also used for the first time a large size Glockenspiel, an instrument used by only two other bands in the nation. After taking part in the parade, members of the band were the guests of Duke University for lunch and at the Duke-Colgate game. Before this game, the Davidson organization participated in the opening (Continued on Page 6)

LITERARY GROUP WILL HEAR SHNOBURG

Well Known Modern Poet To Talk Informally to Sigma Upsilon

Sigma Upsilon, the literary society, will have the pleasure of hearing the well-known modern poet, Shnoburg, at its first meeting of the year. Shnoburg is particularly known for his novels, poems, and essays. The officers for this year are John D. All, president; Harold Sugg, secretary; and Gibson Smith, treasurer. Meetings will be held every Monday night, starting with the first meeting on the night of October 12. For the benefit of the new men in college and the students that have transferred here and are not familiar with this society, it is a club of men desiring to promote effective literary work among the students. Professor E. D. Erwin was one of the prime leaders in the founding of this fraternity. It was formed in 1915 from five local clubs of the same type.

Barrow, Vowles Run For Student V-P

Today the final voting was held for the second vice-president of the Student Body. Wade Barrow, Bill Kiesewetter, Lawrence Reid, and Dick Vowles were nominated by the nominating committee of the Student Council as candidates for the second vice-president position. In a Student Body meeting Monday, no other candidates were nominated from the floor. The position of second vice-president of the Student Body was left vacant by the failure of Buford Patterson, Charlotte, to return to school for this term.

Lafferty Stars As ’Cats Upset Favored Wolfpack In Decisive Night Battle

Armfield Scores on Reverse Play From State’s 3-Yard Line

CARA SCORES FOR STATE

Aerial Attack of Wolves Fails To Click For Tally

By YATES FAISON

Before 10,000 cheering fans, the Davidson Wildcats turned in a decisive victory over the hefty N. C. State charges of Coach Hunk Anderson, Saturday night with a 6-2 triumph under the lights at Riddick Field, Raleigh. Coupling sparkling offensive thrusts by Lafferty and Armfield with a fast charging, stubborn line, the ‘Cats served notice to the football critics that the advance dope hadn't done them justice. Driving the flanks with fast-moving off-tackle plays, Davidson struck suddenly with weak-side plays just when the Wolfpack set itself to meet plays on the other side. Feeny Lafferty, recently titled a veteran back, made his ever-increasing drive for state and national recognition by running, tossing, and booting the ball in such a manner as to erase all lingering doubt as to his prowess. It was Lafferty who started the fireworks from the very first play. It was Lafferty that frightened the State followers every time he handled the ball—about five out of every six plays. Showing the poise of a seasoned veteran, he faked an end run to perfection, setting the play up exactly, but the inferior system hampered Fred Davidson on the receiving end to rob Davidson of what seemed to be a sure touchdown. Davidson got her scoring chance when Entwistle allowed the ball to brush against him while it was bounding around between State’s five-yard line and the goal line. Quick as a flash, Bob McLellan, right end in place of John Amos, pounced on the ball on the three-yard line. Lafferty failed to gain on a line thrust, but on second down, Armfield skirted his own left end to score standing up. The Wildcats’ defense turned into a stone wall, holding State to one touchdown. Davidson’s defense was particularly effective in the closing minutes of the game, preventing State from scoring again. Coach Anderson (Continued on Page 6)

Brown Writes Text For His Eco. Class

Dr. Brown has written a new text for his Modern Economics class, beginning this year. The book covers ten chapters and is composed of about 100,000 words. Dr. Brown has been working on it for almost three years and was able to complete it only shortly before college opened this term. Due to the short time, it was impossible to publish the book, and so it was mimeographed so as to be ready for use this year. Dr. Brown plans to use the text in its mimeographed form for a few years, in order that he may receive criticisms and find errors in it. Then he hopes to revise the book and publish it, with perhaps some additional chapters.

The essential feature of this book is that it approaches the study of economics from the viewpoint of the economic system. It is somewhat philosophical in that it admits frankly that some objectives are different attempts to reconcile the viewpoints of different objectives.