VARIED TOPICS DISCUSSED AT PHILANTHROPIC

“Polarized Light,” “How to Become a Junior G-Man” Are Subjects

“SIX” JOHNSTON LEADS

Murray Mack and Fred Furness Are Speakers

“Polarized Light” and “How to Become a Junior G-Man” were subjects of the speeches at the weekly meeting of the Philanthropic Literary Society, Tuesday night, May 5, in the Phi Hall. President “Six” Johnston led the society in the regular opening exercises, including devotional and business meeting. Then Murray Mack spoke on the topic, “Polarized Light.” He told of the discovery of this new kind of light, a discovery which, it is hoped, will revolutionize night driving. As soon as it is possible to equip automobile headlights and windshields with a glass especially fitted for polarized light, all glare will be eliminated from night driving. It is also hoped that three-dimensional motion pictures will be possible with the aid of polarization of light beams.

Fred Furness then gave a humorous dissertation upon “How to Become a Junior G-Man.” He told of the requirements for membership, that the applicant send in to headquarters two Post Toasties box tops. He read extracts from the instruction manual, notably the section on “What to do when first you reach the scene of a crime,” emphasizing the necessity of saving all fingerprints. In conclusion, the speaker presented the possibility of advancement to the rank of operator, upon submission of more box tops, along with a certain time requirement of service.

For last night's meeting, a debate was planned, to be conducted by Bill Black. Also, piano selections by J. E. Gailey and W. C. Johnston were scheduled.

COUNCIL OF HONORARY FRATERNITIES CHOSEN

Present Council Members Make Final Reports of the Year’s Work

The Honorary Fraternity Council held its regular monthly meeting at the social center, Friday, May 8. At this meeting, each council member gave a report for the fraternity which he represented. The meeting was the final one for this year's council. According to the by-laws of the council, each fraternity must elect a president by May 10. As soon as all these presidents are elected, which was to have been by Tuesday, May 12, a new council meeting will be called Thursday, May 14 to elect council officers for the next year. The council is formed from the presidents of each of the fraternities.

Pres. Lingle Appoints Reception Committee

Seniors and Their Friends to Be Entertained

As is customary, the members of the faculty and their wives will give a reception on Monday afternoon, June 1, at 5 o’clock, for the members of the Senior Class and their friends. A committee has been appointed by President Lingle to make arrangements for it, consisting of the following members: Mrs. Guy R. Vowles, chairman; Mrs. W. L. Lingle, Mrs. A. Currie, Mrs. F. K. Fleagle, Mrs. T. W. Lingle, Mrs. K. J. Foreman, Mrs. W. G. McGavock, Mrs. M. W. McGill, Mrs. A. W. Whittle, Professor A. Currie, and Professor W. G. McGavock.

New York University has received $123,635 in gifts during the last two months. Springfield College, Springfield, Mass., has just received an Olympic cup it won 16 years ago. The belief that left-handed persons are slightly abnormal, says Dr. Samuel T. Orton of Columbia, is just another piece of folklore.

Thirteen New Books Are Added to Library Stacks

Volumes of History, Letters, Exploration, Religion Are Acquired

The Davidson College Library has recently added thirteen new works to its repertoire of books dealing with various fields of interest. Included in the new collection are books dealing with history, literature, letters, exploration, adventure, religion, government, politics, slavery, and psychiatry.

The books are briefly as follows: “The Cambridge History of English Literature,” a complete volume of fifteen books outlining the history of English literature; "The Spanish Main,” by Phillip Ainsworth Means, a glamorous tale of the history of the island of St. Christopher; “Arctic Adventure—My Life In the Frozen North,” by Peter Freuchen, the story of the author's adventures in the exploration of East Greenland; “Everyman His Own Historian,” by Carl L. Becker, essays on history and politics; “The Cambridge Medieval History,” Vol. VIII concerning the close of the middle ages; “Nowhere Else in the World,” by Gordon Enders with Edward Anthony, the adventures of Enders in Tibet as the counselor to the overlord of Tibet; “I Knew 3000 Lunatics,” by Victor K. Small; “Letters of Theodore Dwight Weld, Angelina Grimke Weld, and Sarah Grimke 1822-1844,” edited by Gilbert Barnes and Dwight Dumond; “Democratic Despotism,” by Raoul E. Desvernine; “The Nature of Capitalist Crisis,” by John Strachey; “Home Roads and Far Horizons,” by Thomas Curtis Clark, songs and sonnets; “The Eternal Road,” by Franz Werfel, a biblical drama; and “Plantation Slavery in Georgia,” by R. B. Flan.

Year Closes With Memories of Past Events

Passing of Year Leaves Remembrances of Football, Dances And Other Prominent Features of This Session; All Look Forward to Centennial Celebration

The Wildcat footballers had a big season last fall. Under the leadership of Co-Captains Cole Windham and Henry Cathey, the varsity eleven was able to turn in a creditable record of four victories, three defeats, and two ties. The victories were over Elon, 6-0, South Carolina, 13-6, V. M. I. 14-6, and Wake Forest, 14-7. The ‘Cats, however, lost to State by a score of 14-7, to Carolina by 14-0, and to Duke by a score of 26-7. Citadel drew the tied score of 7-7, and Virginia tied 0-0.

Homecoming

A record number of alumni returned to Davidson on Saturday, November 9, to take part in the annual Homecoming celebration, featured by the Duke game, which quite sadly ended in defeat, and the Pan-Hellenic Council’s very successful set of dances in Charlotte, with Jimmy Poyner’s orchestra playing.

“Y” Religious Services

The Rev. Peter Marshall, pastor of the Westminster Presbyterian Church of Atlanta, Ga., visited the campus on October 29, 30, and 31, to conduct the Fall Religious Services, sponsored each year by the Y. M. C. A. Carl Pritchett, formerly secretary of the Davidson Y. M. C. A., now a graduate student at the Union Theological Seminary in Richmond, Va., and the Rev. Joe E. Overmyer, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church in Bluefield, W. Va., conducted the annual "Y" Spring Services on the Davidson campus on April 7, 8, and 9.

Soccer

Last fall saw the introduction of a new intercollegiate sport, soccer, to Davidson athletes and sports fans. The game was taken up quite enthusiastically, and the team had a very successful first season, scoring several victories in a schedule that included tilts with the veteran teams from Duke and High Point College.

Georgia-Watts

The “Rats” from Georgia and the “Tea Hounds” from Watts dormitory revived their traditional feud early last December. The preliminary bouts, disputes over the control of the fire hose, were indecisive but resulted only in watering the campus quite thoroughly. The rivalry came to its climax in a football game on Richardson Field, which ended in a scoreless tie when the players could no longer see the ball and settled (until next year) the question of superiority.

Chapman, Rhodes Scholar

Carleton B. Chapman, president of the student body, was selected on December 16, after a competitive examination in New Orleans, to receive a Rhodes Scholarship for three years of study at Oxford University, England. The award came as a fitting climax to a brilliant career on the Davidson campus.

Phi Beta Kappa

The Davidson chapter of Phi Beta Kappa, national honorary scholarship fraternity, took in thirteen outstanding members of the senior class this year, including Parvett, Branton, Bulwinkle, Chapman, Hassell, Kuhn, Marchant, Rass, Shuford, Smith, Toote, Walker, and Wartman.

Omicron Delta Kappa

Sixteen campus leaders were recognized and initiated in Omicron Delta Kappa, national society, during this last year. These included nine seniors: Branton, Griffin, Harlan, Marsh, Merchant, Morrow, Partridge, and Purnell; six juniors: Boggs, Carlson, Corbin, Dickson, Edwards, and Morton; and one post-graduate student: Cunningham.

Mid-Winters

The peak of the social season at Davidson this year was the Mid-Winter’s set of dances held at the Armory in Charlotte on January 31 and February 1. The set was sponsored by the Pan-Hellenic Council, and Freddie Martin’s “name” band was engaged to come down from the Waldorf-Astoria in New York City and play for the occasion.

Into the Southern Conference

Davidson College was finally admitted to the Southern Conference, along with Citadel, Wake Forest, William and Mary, and the University of Richmond, as the result of action taken by that group at a special meeting in Richmond, on February 7 and 8. The group at the same time passed the famous Graham plan, which opposes the subsidizing of intercollegiate athletics within the conference.

Spring Elections

Wilbur Edwards of Charlotte was elected president of the student body for next year; M. L. “Teeny” Lafferty of Concord, first vice-president; Buford Patterson of Charlotte, second vice-president; and Warren Gaw of Greensboro, secretary-treasurer. Walt Dickson, from Anderson, S. C., was elected by the student body to succeed Harvey Glass as president of the Y. M. C. A. Jim Morton of Bullock was elected editor of The Davidsonian, to succeed Lamont Brown; and John Abernethy, from Winter Haven, Fla., was selected to edit the centennial Quips and Cranks.

New Stadium

Smith and Lunsford Richardson, of Greensboro and New York City, two of Davidson's most illustrious alumni, recently madea gift to the college of an addition to the Stadium on Richardson Field, which will be built this summer along the east side of the football playing field.

New Officers Installed
Wilbur Edwards, the new president of the student body, the new student council, and the other recently elected officers for next year were installed in a special ceremony during the chapel period on Friday morning, April 24.

THE LITTLE PEP SANDWICH SHOPPE

THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 13, 1936

LAMONT BROWN, editor of The Davidsonian for the past year and president of the North Carolina Collegiate Press Association. Under his leadership, The Davidsonian retained First Class Honor Rating, gaining more credit points than in any previous rating.

ETA SIGMA PHI ELECTS HEADS
Scott, Winn, Street, Dorsett, Harkey, Bigham, Are New Officers

Eta Sigma Phi, Honorary Classics Fraternity, held its last meeting of the year Monday night, May 4, in the Social Center, at which time the officers for the coming year were elected. After a short business meeting was held, the election of officers took place. The following men were elected: John Watson, president; Kenneth Scott, vice-president; Street, treasurer; James Dorsett, corresponding secretary; Henry Harkey, recording secretary; and Roy Bigham, sergeant at arms. After the officers were installed, the meeting was adjourned and an informal feed was enjoyed. Officers for this past year were John Walker, president; Ken Scott, treasurer; and John Allen, secretary.

Dols Stewart was assistant editor on the staff of the national publication of Eta Sigma Phi. Kenneth Scott, the newly elected president of the classical fraternity, is a member of the junior class. He also belongs to the Y.M.C.A. Cabinet, the soccer team, of which he was captain, and Sigma Upsilon, national literary society. John Winn, the new vice president, is also a member of the “Y” Cabinet, and editor of the “Y” Handbook for next year.

ENTERTAINMENT VALUE
“STAGE SHOW! Friday-Saturday “FLASHES OF 1936” Featuring Lemp. Pernu 8—BIG ACTS—8 20—ENTERTAINERS—20 Gorgeous Girls Dancing Comedy

Screen
ANNE SHIRLEY (Star of “Anne of Green Gables”) —in— “CHATTERBOX” Mon-Tue.-Wed. “SPEED” Wendy Barrie — Ted Healy — Una Merkle

BROWN EXPECTS NINTH SUMMER SESSION TO BE BEST SERIES OF WEEKLIES

SESSION OPENS IN EARLY JUNE
Prof. Fleagle Expects Large Enrollment Numbering About 150

TO BEGIN ON JUNE 8
Music Camp For Boys to Begin Later

The ninth summer school session will open at the college Monday, June 8, to last for six weeks. Professor I. W. Fleagle, who started the school, expects a large enrollment this year, numbering from 125 to 150.

Dr. Foreman will teach Bible 21-22, and the course covers Old and New Testament History. Professor Lyons will offer a course in Invertebrate and Vertebrate Zoology with eight hours credit. Chemistry will be taught by Professor Thies with Qualitative and Quantitative Analysis counting for eight hours. Dr. C. K. Brown will teach either General Economics or a new course on Current Economic Problems. The choice will be left up to the students’ selection. Miss Browning from the State Teacher's College will conduct Education entitled Elementary Supervision and Methods. Dr. Cumming will offer English 21-22 which is a general survey of English Literature. As an alternative, a study of World Literature will be given which would undertake a comprehensive survey of the great literature of many races and countries. An anthology containing Japanese, Indian, Chinese, Persian, Spanish, Russian, and other writings will be used as a text. Professor Bailey will teach French 21-22. Geography 21-22 will be given by Professor Porter, and Professor McGavock will teach Freshman Algebra and Trigonometry. An interesting course is being offered in Literature and Appreciation of Music by Mr. Leigh. Professor Fletcher will conduct a class in General College Physics with a credit of eight hours work.

Professor Currie will teach either the general principles of Law or American and European Government under the head of Political Science. Spanish 21-22 will be given by Professor Blyth. The music camp, which will be conducted from June 23 to July 31, while under the supervision of the summer school of the college, will be a separate school for younger boys. About forty are expected to apply for enrollment at the camp.

The summer school closes on July 17. Students taking courses fulfill all requirements for hours of class attendance and examinations. The concentrated work makes it impossible for a student to take more than one subject at a time, but for the two periods of six weeks corresponding to semesters, different courses can be chosen.

BI-WEEKLY MEETING OF SIGMA UPSILON IS HELD ON MAY 1 AT PHI DELT HOUSE
Carleton Chapman, Harold Sugg, and Dick Vowles Present Papers

JOHN ALLEN PRESIDES
Possibility of Writing Novel Is Discussed

DR. LINGLE DELIVERS TALK AT UNIVERSITY
History Professor Lectures to Long Island University Students

STOPS IN WASHINGTON
In Consultation With Secretary of State Hull

During the past week, Dr. T. W. Lingle, of the History Department, went to New York to deliver an address at Long Island University under the auspices of their Scholarship Society. He was invited there by friends connected with the university, and the subject of his address was, “Three European Intellectuals.” On the return trip from New York, Dr. Lingle stopped for a day and a half in Washington. His interest here was to meet and to confer with some of the members of the Senate Committee on Foreign Affairs, and also with Secretary of State Hull. He consulted with them regarding some of the problems that concern them, which problems necessarily are discussed here in the classes of contemporary European History. Accordingly, he had conferences with a number of Senators, Secretary of State Hull, and also Mr. Francis Sayre, the legal counsel for the State Department. Some of the problems in these conferences were: The probabilities of another general war; the subject of American neutrality, including land, sea, and air armaments of the United States and Europe; internal debts; foreign trade; also the question as to whether or not there has ever been any real danger of an attack on the United States by any foreign country.

The bi-weekly meeting of the Blue Pencil Chapter of Sigma Upsilon was held last Monday, May 1, at the Phi Delta Theta house. At this meeting, the newly elected president, Johnny Allen, presided, and papers were read by Carleton Chapman, Harold Sugg, and Dick Vowles. The first of these papers was an imaginative piece entitled “Box Due,” by Dick Vowles, in which the American Liberty League and organizations of such nature were satirized. This was a Yowl Rent more pre-view. Harold Sugg then followed with a “Dirge to the Yowl” which will appear in that illustrious publication also. Carleton Chapman's short story dealt with the dreary monotonous life in a typical Alabama town. This paper and the ones before presented were criticized from all angles by both student and faculty members. Following these criticisms, the possibility of the members writing a novel during the coming year was discussed. Refreshments were then served.

ANDERSON CHOSEN TO BE MINSTREL HEAD
Bill Laws Is Vice-President; Gordon Riggan, Secretary-Treasurer

On Sunday afternoon, the Minstrel Club held a meeting on the lawn beside the Social Center, over which President Selange presided. The purpose of this meeting was to elect officers for the coming year. Tom Anderson, of Birmingham, Ala., was elected president; Bill Laws, of Henderson, vice-president; and Gordon Riggan, of Raleigh, secretary and treasurer. President Selange has served in the capacity for both terms of the present year. Tom Anderson, the newly elected president, is a member of the junior class having transferred from another college. Laws, the newly elected vice president, is active in the music department. He is a member of all three organizations and an officer in the Glee Club. Selange, the retiring president, is on the forensic council and a varsity debater.

Preparing for Graduation Day---the NEW PALM BEACH

“The American Geological Society dug into the basement of Harvard Hall the other day and came up with an important find: a 200-year-old beer bottle!”

Delegates to the 1936 Psi Upsilon convention went on record as opposing punishment with initiation.

Week of May 18th—The Winner of the Academy Award For 1935 BETTE DAVIS In Michael Arlen’s Sensational Play, “The GOLDEN ARROW” With George Brent BALCONY 25c ANYTIME

We planned these new Palm Beach models for the day you say goodbye to classmates. They're splendidly tailored in smart shape-retaining whites, both single and double breasted. Fashioned by Goodall, with all the touches that have made the men’s Palm Beach suits famous. Wear them for the big event... and remember, that they will give you ideal style and comfort in the hot days to come. In popular tan, blue, and checks. They will go well with your sports coat... $3.95

Tate-Brown Company
College Shop Third Floor