4 THE 4[AN, SEPTEMBER 23, 1936

SEE THE CATS FACE WOLFPACK, SATURDAY

WILDCATS SHOW MUCH STRENGTH AGAINST DEVILS

Jim Johnston Heads Stubborn ’Cat Defense, Lafferty Shines In Offensive Role as Davidson Loses To Blue Devils, 13 to 0

HACKNEY, PARKER LEAD WADEMEN TO VICTORY

Smith, Duke Back, Plunges and Kicks For All Duke Points

Making their debut into the Southern Conference, the Wildcats threw a scare into the Duke camp and held Wallace Wade's highly-touted Blue Devils to a 13-0 score in Memorial Stadium at Greensboro Saturday night.

Duke, picked by many pre-season prognosticators as a possible choice for the Rose Bowl, managed to push over a score in both the first and third periods by taking advantage of two momentary lapses by their opponents. During the rest of the game, the snarling, fighting pack of Wildcats checked the onslaught of the Devil power plays and once failed to hold Hackney’s long kick, which slipped through his fingers and was recovered by Duke. From this point, the Blue Devils scored their second touchdown. Standing on his own 20-yard line, the slippery Wildcat back let Hackney’s long kick slip through his fingers and it was recovered by Duke. From this point, the inimitable Smith, aided by Hudgins and Hackney, carried the oval across the double stripe and placed the extra point, making the count 13-0.

In the fourth period, Williams recovered a Duke fumble on the Blue Devils’ nine-yard line. Lafferty’s pass to Williams was grounded. Lafferty squirmed through Duke's right tackle for two yards, Armfield made five around right end, placing the ball on the one-yard line. On the last down, Lafferty went wide around Duke's left end but was stopped six inches short of the goal line. Standing behind his own goal line in kick formation, Hackney passed to Parker for a 25-yard gain, starting a march that was stopped only when another pass to Parker bounced off the fingertips of the Duke captain into the hands of Lafferty, who was downed on his nine-yard stripe.

Those who were looking for Davidson to open up with a razzle-dazzle attack were disappointed as only straight football was on the menu. However, the stands were thrilled time and again as Teeny Lafferty, spearhead of the Cat offense, ripped off big chunks of yardage through the Duke line. The heavier Dukes reckoned to batter down the Cat defense with their power line smashes, detailing three men to break out Dick Johnson, Davidson's All-State guard, but they reckoned without the diminutive but mighty Jim Johnston, who stopped fully one-third of the Duke plays aimed at the center of the line.

STATE HAS HEAVY TEAM

The Blue Devils are favorites for the Big Five title this year, with quite a strong threat for both the Big Five and the conference title under a new coach, Raymond Wolf. The Wildcats looked impressive despite the 13-0 defeat suffered at the hands of Wade’s men and it appears that Raleigh will be the scene of a close battle Saturday night. The ’Cats seemed perfectly at ease under the lights in Greensboro and their experience with Duke may serve to

REMEMBER.... You Always Save at Belk Brothers!

At the beginning of the second period, Wade sent in his great running back, Ace Parker, who teamed up with Tipton and Johnny Johnson.¢ - heads he ay mea on Ad ee OtfStt State advantage of night play: Ee oc ston to march down to Davidson's oot Fashion Feht rt ee pelt i tl; eee N 1° Mcti large -erowd of 15,000, Lafferty wa ten-yard line However here the igh here were five t n le oache Newton ane Mekver 1 1 reer eer ( )? : ; the Wildcat star, while Pa ro and ° xX Devil backfield all night, ies have quickly ironed out the slight Hackney led the Devils in action. | Footballers to Play Five-Game RUNNERS 10 REPORT the lack of an athletic director, or s hr va ni sto y ragvednes t vidson’s offensi; Fine 5 AT ad va ras ies n \ ; raggedn in. Davidson tensive A rather slow Wolfpa; Schedule which prohibited Pete Whittle from By wood ind ock ass proved formation and are now busy polish - ‘ 5 poner canes DSTI aa ae eu at their true worth in reserve roles and ing the ‘Cats defense. Apparently A ae rf Mes; HTS ny copay ne nie Wild eRIEAHA ta Team to Be Formed For Fall one a ae Pvenrionn FRIEDMAN-SHELBY | much service before the the same line up that faced Duke Berlina tinea tin ek] tered by Coach Flake Laird will p us Ce) Geral Ges. elas ARM) Bing a BOM Eola Will see action chao the Wolf tl Wolfpack, led hi lower open their 1936 football season on A varsity cross-country team for Parcell, Frank Brown, F. L. Fort, pack with a possible change at cen mrad to victory, maki: both | October Ist, with Presbyterian Jun inter collegiate competition has R. M. Wilson, Bill Telford, R. J ter. Heman Clark who Pak day, ichdow1 one- on a national | ior College. This game will’ bel been organized here under the lead- | Terry, J. IW. Wilson, Sprunt, Frank foot injury before the Duke game iesaedeeng played here at Davidson on Rich-} oycyjy oj Pete Whittle. Poe, L. M. Hipp and R. R. King Stig to action in the pivot i euivemmeecatc ton (i urdson. Field. | 7 {svar ineets liave been | Any others who wish to go out for Meanwhile at State Coach Hunk | 2&8 Saturday when the Du | During the practice sessions of | * us | Hed, one w ith Duke on Oc ue te am Nall ple ue Ree Eel Ander i mi the Wolfpack Colgate game is a featur \ he past week Coach Laird has been] tober 17, ar me with Carolina, the | Whittle for uniforms at their ear- ae on Ss primimyg ie U “ . 1 . 2 for their first Big Five and South- | oth Blue Devil Homecoming. 1 trying to find his best material, C,] date tor lich has not yet been| lest convenience for t first Big Five and So ; i i a e of the season] Red Raiders play a dazzling, tricky|G. Yates, one of the aspirants for tile 1On \ third meet will — Satna : zame with plenty of aerial play. The]: ‘i VE All-State Center atJ Probably be arranged for with eith Pack defeated. Elon} 8&°™ ue ; team,“ Was “AUsote % eee opening encounter, it] Blue Devils will play their sa oro last year. Those whof¢r the University of Virginia, Wash WELCOME FRESHMEN ay fe follower are low but sure, type of football k good-at the guards are: G. M.] 'ngton and Lee, or V. M. 1. On No O50 ite followers : ao ) : IE rrying abouty The game Saturday is the i-| Kice and J. M. Pennington. Material] Yember 21 the Southern Conference a ypen' Saturday. State |son’s first tilt for both Wake For t end iynot so abundant, but I Lapere Faun) yo meet will be held at Tene Supply Your nus the services of }est and Carolina They are more PHornbe rer is doing well. Some of fChapel Hill in which Davidson will (Above) An oxford that's exceptionally dressy and one; thertl Rt Seber. ‘ s | country 1 las eat Ranier . Helms, first string tackle, when the | pear, as Wake Forest has improved, eh ire Miller, A. L. James, = ae ist year because of eee that gor wonderfully well Whistle blows, but Carl Goode, a 238] While. North Carolina has mostly | Glenn, TWo McLeans ‘and Me Mat ae on = ‘ ISB with — the ext fallrentirer : 1 P , avers ¢ sare Ty: Geachy. H. J. Bol, Hunter, Me ! widson; and a night game ‘ ; pounder, will adequately fill the |mew players and is starting unde; ni, ae : raed Smooth quality calf leather. gap. Should both colleges use their} @ new coach, with sophomores as} Clintock, and W. B. May are back : t ae Hi ol arat one S O (Of Ie HER N Gomes inebrowacorebinaen6; : Pres , ; @ldemataci sovember Oth, Columbia; anc cial original line-ups. the Cats will spot | their main source of power, id material ’ to 11; AA to D eh : ut : yee P Thi Mie Blieelbevit tf F 1 ; aT Vers, ke ae Kidge School for Boys, Dav- 5 & 10c Store o the ’Pack 13 pounds to the man. us years Blue Devil outfit 1s Ne Trosh will play five games Some who predicted that David-| experienced and it has a fast back-] this season, they ar Presbyterian] JF. JOHNSTON: field it Jun —___—— son’s punting department would and a powerful line i College—October ‘Ist, Dav Center, written about as a gap lose some games this year are re-| picked as the winner of both Big ny Wotford Freshmen—October by all sports writers, was filled | minded to look back over the Duke (Continued on Page 6) 9th Fitted irtanburg;, Duke—October in grand style by the depend- game. If Teeny Lafferty kicks as able Frank Purdy. Despite his well against Bardes a he. did lack of weight, Frank playing against “Ace” Parker and Elmore . the opposite backer-up position Hackney they need not worry D d a from Hunter was a thorn in the The kick-off is scheduled for 8 e avi SON eatre e 4 d {i d side of Ace Parker and Co. all P. M., Saturday, 26th, at Riddick cau oun (Continued on Page 6) Field in Raleigh epesennsennnsnnenernnn seesesnsennevnserervasesnonnsnesonsseerrnnenronnmagy | | \VELNESDAY, SEPT. 23 ) 7” #4){| “MY AMERICAN WIFE” e With Francis Lederer, Ann Southern, Billie Burke, Fred Stone e wee Visit THURSDAY, SEPT. 24 “WIVES NEVER KNOW” e A fast-moving comedy—a throw-back on married life ] te r ug O. FRIDAY, SEPT. 25 \ “MARY OF SCOTLAND” Starring Katherine Hepburn and Frederick March (Above) Men who prefer a cap toe model will be proud to this new Foot-Fashion oxford! It’s comfortable and —=NOr—— SATURDAY, SEPT. 26 ‘ PROMPT._AND EFFICIENT SERVICE “MURDER WITH PICTURES” ~ ; : : A thrilling mystery drama with a whirlwind finish MONDAY & TUESDAY, SEPT. 28-29 “WALKING ON AIR” With Gene Raymond, Ann Southern, Jessie Ralph and Henry Stephenson—in a charming picture good-looking! Blucher style. Rigid arch support. 6 to 12. Magazines—Fountain Pens—Toilet Articles AtoD. - Street Floor — Shoe Dept. BELK’S CHARLOTTE, N. C. DAVIDSON’S OLDEST AND BEST P. H. HANES KNITTING CO., Winston-Salem, N. C.