WELCOME ALUMNI

STUDENT FEELING IS STRONG AS ’CATS GET READY FOR CAROLINA

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA

The Davidsonian

LIBERTAS

GALA FESTIVITIES ARE PLANNED AS DAVIDSON BEGINS HOMECOMING

VOL. XXIV DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., NOVEMBER 4, 1936 NO. 7

CAMPUS INITIATES HUNDREDTH HOMECOMING

Homecoming Dance Plans Finished By Pan-Hellenic Council; Poyner to Play

Opening of Fraternity Houses To Feature Homecoming Celebration

MANY ALUMNI EXPECTED

Poyner’s Orchestra Engaged To Furnish Music

Ed Armfield, president of the Pan-Hellenic Council, stated Monday that plans for the much heralded Homecoming dance-set are complete. With the Homecoming celebration less than a week off, preparations have been made to make these dances a fitting end to what promises to be the most colorful weekend ever witnessed at Davidson. As has been previously announced, music will be furnished by Jimmy Poyner’s noted orchestra. This band hails from North Carolina State College and is an old friend of Davidson students.

Two dances will make up the set: a formal Friday night from 9 P.M. until 1 A.M., with a half-hour intermission at 11 o'clock; and an informal Saturday night from 8 P.M. until midnight, with an intermission from 10:45 until 11:00. Tickets for the set will be on sale until 1 P.M., Friday. There will be a figure at the formal dance Friday night formed by the members of the Pan-Hellenic Council and their dates, along with senior representatives from each of the nine social fraternities.

A unique feature of these dances will be the open-house held in each fraternity house Friday night following the formal dance. Each group is giving a feed at the houses which will be open until 3 A.M. This is the first time ever that this privilege has been accorded to the Davidson fraternities in the history of the college.

ROOSEVELT IS LEADER OVER LANDON IN POLL

President With Larger Popular Vote, Trails In Electoral Count

Although President Roosevelt was leading Governor Landon by over 3,000 popular votes in the Daily Princetonian National Collegiate Poll, Governor Landon had 233 electoral votes to the President's 206, a margin of 27 votes. Only 34 of the 48 states have reported in the poll. Governor Landon carried 18 states and President Roosevelt 14. The popular vote was Landon, 35,708; Roosevelt, 38,977.

President Roosevelt took North Carolina from Governor Landon by almost a 2-1 margin. He had 2,059 of the 3,306 votes cast. Third-party candidates polled only 107 votes in the state. N.C. State gave Roosevelt his largest margin, over 4-1. Davidson gave the President over a 3-1 margin. Duke was the only institution going for Landon. It gave Roosevelt 504 and Landon 697.

The largest number of votes cast in any state was in Massachusetts, the total number cast rising above 8,000 votes. Governor Landon had almost 2,000 more votes than President Roosevelt. Tennessee handed in the smallest number of votes, only 241. Of these, Landon had 43, and Roosevelt 184. Texas gave President Roosevelt his largest victory, giving him almost 7 votes to every one for the Republican candidate. The electoral votes of New York, for which both candidates worked hard, went to Landon by a small margin of only 76 votes out of 7,000 cast. None of the third-party candidates made good showings in the (Continued on Page 6)

Jim Morton Elected Frosh Class Adviser

Jim Morton was elected freshman adviser over Ed Armfield in the final balloting last Monday. Last week the freshman class nominated Bob Anders, Ed Armfield, Jack Branch, Jim Morton, and John Winn for the office of adviser to the freshman class. In the first vote, the field was narrowed to Armfield and Morton. On the second ballot, Morton was selected to serve as their adviser for the coming year.

Morton is editor in chief of the Davidsonian, a member of O.D.K., freshman baseball manager, a member of the Eumenean literary society, Publication Board, and Student Council, and belongs to Sigma Phi Epsilon, a social fraternity.

FRENCHMAN TO LECTURE HERE

Vicomte de Montazon-Brachet, noted French writer and international lecturer, who is now visiting the United States for the second time, is to deliver a lecture to Davidson students and their friends on November 13th, under the auspices of the Faculty Committee on Lectures and the French Club. The Vicomte has spoken in England and Canada and came to the United States last year to deliver lectures in different parts of the country. One of the many tributes paid to him as a lecturer was by King Edward VII of England, who said: "When he speaks, one can understand and admire the most subtle shades of the beautiful French language—what a golden voice!” He is also an active director in many philanthropic societies. He has spoken before royalty and has delivered lectures before distinguished audiences in many countries.

The Davidson French Club will soon begin work on L'Anglais Tel Qu’on le Parle and Le Médecin Malgré Lui. The latter is to be put on by recent initiates of the French Club, while the former is to be put on by old members of Le Cercle Français. The roles in L’Anglais Tel Qu’on le Parle have not yet been definitely filled, but the probable cast is as follows: Wade Barrow, interpreter; John Winn, leading man; Sam Cothran, waiter; F. S. Poe, leading lady; J. R. McClelland or J. N. Smith, Chief of Police; and H. H. McFadyen, manager of the hotel. (Continued on Page 7)

ALUMNI MAY MAKE BANQUET BIG EVENT

Hunter thinks that some alumni will give the needful help to make the banquet a much larger affair than has so far been considered possible. Assistance from outside the club would make possible a big entertainment in Charlotte. Chubby King will play for the dance that they will hold Thanksgiving night to celebrate the end of the season. The banquet will be during the week following the dance. Hunter mentioned H. T. Mills of Greenville, S.C., as being a sponsor of alumni participation in providing the banquet.

U. OF LOUISVILLE HOST TO COLLEGIATE PRESS ASSOCIATION; FAMOUS MEN SPEAK TO GROUP

Norfleet, Overton, Robinson Attend Fifteenth Annual Convention

LASTS FOR THREE DAYS

Three Hundred Seventy-Five Delegates Attend

George Norfleet, Hal Overton, and Hoke Robinson attended the 15th annual meeting of the Associated Collegiate Press, October 29, 30, and 31, in Louisville, Ky., as representatives of Davidson. The convention host was the University of Louisville, and the meetings were held in the Brown Hotel. Three hundred seventy-five delegates representing a total of 39 states answered the roll call. The farthest his college was the representative from Walla Walla, Wash.

Registration began at 9 A.M., on October 29, at the Brown Hotel. During the remainder of the day, the delegates were conducted on tours of newspaper plants. The opening convocation was held that night at 8 P.M., and the guests were welcomed by Neville Miller, mayor of Louisville, and other notables. The main address of the evening was by Herbert Agar, former Pulitzer Prize winner and associate editor of “The Louisville Courier Journal.” The topic of this interesting address was: “If I Were a College Editor.”

The programs of the convention were divided into two groups: those of interest to the editorial staff and those of interest to the business staff. Round table meetings were organized for discussion and instruction among the editors and staff members of university newspapers. The object of these groups was to show how a paper might be built up and published more regularly. Many interesting discussions and talks were heard during the course of the convention; however, the highlight of the programs was the address by John B. Kennedy, NBC radio commentator and former associate editor of “Collier’s.”

'SCRIPTS 'N PRANKS APPEARS THURSDAY

Successor to ‘Yow!’ Will Feature Cartoons, Illustrated Stories

The first issue of the “Scripts 'n Pranks,” the successor to the Yow, will appear on campus tomorrow. It will be both literary and humorous. After being abolished by the censors, the Yow! has sprung up again with a new name and a new start. This first issue will feature Homecoming and may be sold at the Homecoming game. The magazine contains more and better illustrations than did the Yow. It will feature illustrated stories and some of the cartoons will be done in different styles from the usual black and white. Sam Ryburn and Dick Vowle will have short stories in this copy and Bill McIlwinen reviews several new books. Sugg will write a column in the Scripts 'n Pranks after his rest from the column in The Davidsonian. This magazine, edited by Hal Overton and containing the prize selections from several writers on the campus, will keep us laughing for quite a while. The cover for this issue is by Sam Ryburn.

REV. W. ELLIOTT TO SPEAK AT SERVICES

Noted Speaker An Honor Graduate of Park College, Parksville, Mo.

6 SERVICES TO BE HELD

LSA Recently Speaker at Queens-Chicora and Mitchell

The Rev. William M. Elliott, Jr., pastor of the Druid Hills Presbyterian Church in Atlanta, Ga., arrived on the Davidson campus early yesterday morning and opened the annual Fall Services sponsored by the Y.M.C.A. at the chapel period. The series of six religious services, which are being held each morning during chapel and each evening at 7:00 in Chambers Auditorium, will be completed tomorrow night.

Mr. Elliott was graduated with honor from Park College, in Parkville, Mo., after an active undergraduate career. From there he went to Louisville, Ky., where he attended the Presbyterian Theological Seminary and at the same time served as assistant pastor of the Second Presbyterian Church of Louisville.He was awarded two fellowships for advanced study and went to Scotland, where he studied at the University of Edinburgh, for a Ph.D. degree. He was forced, however, to return to this country before he had completed his course. He went back this summer and was able to finish the residence work for the degree and now has only to complete the work on his thesis to be awarded the doctorate. On his return to America, he was called back to the Louis Seminary where he was for several years Professor of Church History and pastor of the A.R.P. Church. Mr. Elliott has recently conducted similar services at Queens-Chicora College, Flora Macdonald, and Mitchell.

GRADS RETURN
Four Hundred Alumni Are Expected for Annual Homecoming Luncheon

400 Davidson alumni, the largest number in the history of the college, are expected to attend the annual Alumni Luncheon next Saturday in Chambers Auditorium, before watching a sell-out Homecoming football game between the University of North Carolina and Davidson. The luncheon is scheduled to last from 12:30 to 1:00. After the luncheon itself is over, no after-dinner speeches are planned. With Mr. W. Burney Thomas of Pittsburgh, President of the Alumni Association this year, presiding, there will be discussions of three topics of interest to David (Continued on Page 8).

O.D.K. Initiates New Members On Friday

Omicron Delta Kappa, national honorary leadership fraternity, will hold its formal initiation ceremony Friday, November 6 at 6 o'clock in the banquet hall of Chambers. The men being initiated at this time were: John Abernethy, Ed Armfield, Jack Branch, Joe Hunter, Jim Johnston, Hal Overton, Tyler Port, Clifford Quick, and Harold Sugg. Immediately following the initiation there will be a banquet at which Wilbur Edwards will be toastmaster and Joe Johnston of Barium Springs, the principal speaker.

DR. CHARLES F. MYERS, GREENSBORO MINISTER, DELIVERS ADDRESS AT VESPERS NOVEMBER 1

Pastor Chooses Text, “I Am Persuaded,” from 1st Chapter of Timothy

GUEST SOLOIST SINGS

Myers Stresses Personal Needs In Religion

“All human lives are like islands scattered in a sea of misunderstanding,” stated Dr. Charles F. Myers, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Greensboro, guest minister at the Sunday Vesper Services, November 1st.

Sophs Will Sponsor Leftwich and Band

The dance weekend has secured Jelly Leftwich and his orchestra to play for the Sophomore dance set on December 4 and 5. Leftwich has played for Davidson dances many times in the past. He was welcomed to the campus for the dances last year. He is now playing at the Robert E. Lee Hotel in Winston-Salem. The Charlotte Armory, where the dance set will be held, has already been secured for the first weekend in December. The Sophomores plan to make this the best set of dances ever sponsored by the class here. The orchestra is well-known and popular with the students, so plans are being made for a large attendance.

Following the singing of a hymn by the congregation and after the offering, Mr. Parrior, soloist from the First Presbyterian Church of Greensboro, sang “Come Ye Blessed” by Scott. In his sermon, Dr. Myers stated that every man’s soul is apart and cannot be reached by that of another. But Jesus sails around our islands until he finds our personal problems and comes in there.

President of Student Body Addresses Alumni as Homecoming Nears

By Wilbur Edwards

Men resent religion, continued the Minister, because it is too personal. Yet the first responsibility is that of ourselves. And in order to make ourselves into strong characters, we must have convictions. Convictions, stated the speaker, are not opinions, for opinions are what we think. Convictions are what we believe. Dr. Myers then continued by presenting three definitions of conviction. First, conviction is knowledge born of experience. Second, conviction is conscientiousness expressed in duty. Third, conviction is faith centered in Christ.

DAVIDSON SENIORS PASS COMMITTEES

Eight Men Are Approved By Rhodes Committees; Meet In December

Eight Davidson seniors, who applied for Rhodes Scholarships, were approved by the Rhodes Scholar Committee on October 26 and by the Executive Committee on October 29. The applicants, who represent several districts, are as follows: Robert B. Stewart, Alabama; John D. Allen, Kentucky; Russell H. Patterson, Tennessee; and Frank A. Brown, Wilbur Edwards, Emmet B. Horsley, Maurice Rine, and Kenneth Scott from North Carolina. The Davidson Rhodes Scholarship Committee is composed of Dr. W. P. Cumming, Dr. H. T. Lilly, and Dr. G. R. Vawles, all of whom have attended Oxford as Rhodes scholars in the past. Application to the state committee will be made on November 7, and they will appear before this committee on the 17th to 19th of December. The eight applicants will meet the District Committee on December 21. The membership of this committee is not yet known. These scholarships were founded at Oxford University by the will of Cecil John Rhodes and are available for students from the British Dominions and colonies, and the United States. The stipend at present is fixed at 400 pounds. Usually, about 190 Rhodes scholars are in attendance at Oxford. (Continued on Page 7).

BROWN

The alumni personally responsible for perhaps half of our students. You were instrumental in our coming to Davidson, and there always comes a time when we can thank you for the service you rendered us. That time is Homecoming. Homecoming is a time when both major groups can join together and celebrate our heritage. There has been more enthusiasm about this Homecoming than any Homecoming since the present seniors have been here, at least. For first of all, this is our Centennial Year, the year in which we celebrate the triumphant march of Davidson through the next one hundred years. Another factor is the football team, which sure as anything is going to make a lecture record. The Davidson Rhodes Scholarship Committee is composed of Dr. W. P. Cumming, Dr. H. T. Lilly, and Dr. G. R. Vawles, all of whom have attended Oxford as Rhodes scholars in the past. Application to the state committee will be made on November 7, and they will appear before this committee on the 17th to 19th of December. The eight applicants will meet the District Committee on December 21. The membership of this committee is not yet known. These scholarships were founded at Oxford University by the will of Cecil John Rhodes and are available for students from the British Dominions and colonies, and the United States. The stipend at present is fixed at 400 pounds. Usually, about 190 Rhodes scholars are in attendance at Oxford. (Continued on Page 7).

Grads Return to Campus For Week-End Activities; Game Attracts Interest

Student Body Prepares For An Unusually Large Number of Girl Guests

BIG ALUMNI LUNCHEON

Pan-Hellenic Dance to Climax Varied Program

As the time for the long-anticipated Homecoming celebration draws near, all Davidson is keyed to a high pitch of excitement. Thousands of loyal alumni are expected to troop back to the campus to renew acquaintance with familiar spots, and again to sense the thrill of the Wildcat spirit, which, as Davidson reaches her hundredth year, is stronger than ever. The alumni luncheon, to be held in the Banquet Hall of Chambers Building, will, according to all reports, surpass by far anything of its kind ever seen here in the past. For the first time in its history, the Davidson band will play popular numbers in swing tempo for a half-hour concert Saturday morning. A kaleidoscope of color on the gridiron, on the ballroom floor, at the boarding house, and on the arms of stalwart sons of Davidson will evidence their inspiring presence. The main event—the Homecoming game with the University of North Carolina! Here the “Iron Men” of Davidson will stage a hard battle to the screeching of a jammed stadium. And Saturday night, there will be no curfew as Jelly Leftwich and his orchestra round after round in waltz time, making this Homecoming not only legend in the hearts and minds of thousands of loyal Wildcats.

FOUR MEN REPRESENT DAVIDSON AT MEETING

Faculty Members Speak to South Piedmont Teachers’ Association

At the 14th annual convention of the South Piedmont Teachers Association, Davidson College was represented by the following speakers: Dr. P. H. Gwynn, Dr. Frazer Hood, Prof. W. W. Wood, and Coach “Doc” Newton. Prof. Wood spoke on “Observations on the Teaching of Mathematics.” Following Prof. Wood's talk, an interesting discussion was held. Coach Newton spoke on “Coaching High School Football in North Carolina.” Dr. Frazer Hood delivered a speech on “The High School Curriculum.” Dr. Hood stressed the importance of standardizations, for elimination of competition, and for the preservation of a system of education which takes into account the fact that the most powerful influence in a child’s life is the home.