THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 15, 1936

Death I SUICIDE

[the Home of Mrs. John Caldwell. [office of the association. A number of the Davidson faculty are of- Hungarian Song of Death LIBRARY TS le UNSW ACS | ic Cae can hen oe Ga Possesses Weird Powers “GLOOMY SUNDAY" | Anderson of Queens-Chi Sees TE s al ; {mr Professor John C sail was the or Mee, spent their Easter va MeH Brow f. Pitts- - = ! slumberless | chapel speaker at the Davidson high school Friday. morning Hil LOB ede PeteR NT CaTeAt Wikeago VERN eli “Gibson Sunday” Creates MR. HUGH QUERY WILL AEE ies | ring, April 10 F pat i I ind i | i : ’ ip MUO LE SS, } Ul fourth grade, under the direc Cumnock Mr. Cumnock enter-| Sensation EDIT ALUMNI JOURNAL Pie aiiietlon ha drainer Nita Wari ac Gti fini caRbed GET AA CHES PRG TE SeRPE Niel lee nese : ‘ I R ge : fee] rt Gart KEMP MAKES RECORD Because of the resignation of Mahvaiiee dle tleee soa irc ies ag cone ah ee drat sR a Jand their children of New York cit pes Grier Martin, the Davidson i : es | Cee, J AAAS ire guests of. Mrs. Garth's parent Blue Monday Still Worries!| sccrétary, the next tho) inal : se Sid : : M lane L.’ Richa the Bob \Wood at Darlingt D ! ey * eareeeie : 5 i Would they be a i t } f 1 1 1 } , F America Most will be put out under the direction Books of Travel, | Fine Arts, ; # faculty of Flora M ld ¢ n is) returned » RK Ga te o¢*?- ¢ SoaEEEETS of Mr. Hugh Query, president: of Fiction, and Social Science fates ay spent the Easter vacation tl r} spending his spring vacati (lie +.Con Presbyteria By Pete Mckm the Alumni Association, around the | Included ce Kleene: parents, Dr. and Mrs. C. 4 vict his parents, Prof. and Mrs mee in Davidson ning Weirdest and strangest of recent]] middle of May : Beene ‘ , eae ee : Jpard Richard McClain, of Spar Thursday and f M Gea : , number of new books e been | Gloomy Sunday, with shadows I spend musical compositions is Hungarian The next Journal is to feature a Aaah fs new at ely SAK 4 | burg, S. ( his gue H lto i D ] fe Composer Reszo Seress’ “Gloomy Sun he commencement activities which a aaa ai eaeabahd eet ae LAY, ‘ ry ; Warren’ Babcock was] 4 few day aut the session d arts, and soci Vy ih ! 1 i t oo ‘ ’ day,’ whose spontaneous rise to the will occur June 1 and:2, Mr. Query a: cue 5 a ! sates t at the regular -¢ ¢ ¢ heights of publicity has been accom-]]} will be aided by Mr. Martin, who ware HLS Gio te) “Gio Belle : se music club Tuesday Phe annual meeting of tl -* Miss Gatrie Lena Mof panied by a mournful line of suicides.) at that time will be in Atlanta, || Sr ; ; , : His subject was holder nf the n n , Va., spent the week-er The composition, written by Com-]] retary, Miss Lingle Halliburton, describes the strange and tee os ¢ Plugedus avanti cused Tatras paratively obscure until several weeks romantic adventures of the world : PS HAE Te) Tas GTC AN I eVL CO sT Hee rN yc ago when Budapest police discovered only professional adventurer Those ee’ Vesetained informally Wednesday evening in honor of Coach and Mrs that Joseph Keller, a suicide, had Who attended Halliburton’s lectures ; abla py arty , py) Fi ° quoted lyrics from the song in his BAND RETURNS HI Charlotte wills need: ro) tupthien. att uh partied x ee SON Noein Shepherd, Mr. and Mrs j death note. Time magazine, in the centive to read this fascinating: book Percy rae Shepherd, who will take up. their THIS IT § March 30th issue, contained a brief FROM JOURNEY Houseparty is a three-act play, de- Gloomy Stoide PARC DEUTSCH Tle Gainer: ! history of the composition, saying that ‘ pictin here for the purpose of select- a4 ‘AN eee : / TA w college life. It enjoyed a 1 1 : a young musician «with remarkable “Further inquiry revealed that the lug- Wild and Wooly Tales Circu- |" °" Broadway during: the season TRUn ra eli ormb ents tiacntladn ra home i ubrious ballad had persuaded 17 oth- late After Extensive 1929-1930, It is an exciting drama to Panatiniccome alive di the pages ¢ ¢ @ ad U C er impressionable “Magyars to take with elements of mystery and com Mrs. Oscar Thies Southern Tour eects ot this book. In every character there Was hostess to eae hte The song was’ banned A an a ‘el a sth ie oe ath . ite, dt FeerE ATR TATE RO HIE HI RURE CHa tite uvCntiCtinGantinvs GINDMLn tty ape ve “Get-in-this s-and - lets - go! | lege background. . Britton an ‘rnoo S sas by Buc upest police. ae iet-in-thi bu A ¢ ge : ¢ back 1 K sritton a moter thie tnnteneits expression | #fternoon, April 10 Mt Kes] Worn with Pride Gl by Millions Hal Kemp, Paul Whiteman, and] quoth Madcutf, so 52 members of | Roy Hargrave are the authors ove of aiusi Foreman read a paper on the mod @ Henry King have all produced Ameri- } the band and quartet did. And thus Silas ( Ht, by Mary Elfen Chase Fhe ATan Hei the Baio By DAW cn uname = iets recordings of the tet) 4 Kemp's | began the annual spring Ha atle SMD tolls: the story of a New England fam-|itewery ts another book of interest to <2 Ke record, probably the best of the three, | which lasted from March 23 until] jjy through four generations, through wers. . This book offers a bi Dr. H. M. Moffett and Dr. W. R is played in FE flat minor, with the} April 1 the chances and changes of New Eng- fenlomuite to more than twollatey, attended the sessions of the f ts gi ‘ or he oO mournful effect produced) by two At Gastonia,the first stop, the boys’ band’s maritime history: a story of adventure and heroism on deep water. Within its covers, one finds traced the history of leading symphony orchestras in America and Europe. The Sorosis Club held its regular meeting Friday night, April 10. Published in the April 13th issue of Time, was a letter from the composer containing the following excerpts:

“The fact that my song ‘Gloomy Sunday’ is being played all over the world bewildered me—I do not know whether I should be happy over it. I stand in the midst of this deathly success as an accused... People who die with a song must have beautiful souls, but I do not compose them for that purpose... What prompted me to compose this song?... You know what struggles and disappointments I have gone through. There are healed wounds which sometimes open... the past returns and tears them. It was in one of these moments that ‘Gloomy Sunday’ was born. I cried all the disappointments of my heart into this song, and people with feelings akin found their own hurt in it.”

The first United States suicide, according to the article, is believed to be John Granville Williams, a graduate student in chemistry at the University of Michigan, who hanged himself after listening to Kemp's orchestra play the song over the radio. It cannot be denied that the lyrics are particularly depressing, more so than the music. Even they must have lost some power in translating them from the original, but they still retain enough of the original thought to disturb the equilibrium of mentally unbalanced persons.

Colgate University faculty held a model national Republican convention recently. New England colleges recently held the ninth annual model League of Nations session at Williams.

CINEMATIC COMMENTS

Wednesday, April 15
I smoke Luckies, a light smoke of rich, ripe-bodied tobacco.

Thursday-Friday, April 16-17
Petticoat Fever
A man, who strangely enough, hasn't seen a woman for over six months suddenly sees one and then the fun starts. The starved-soul is played by Robert Montgomery, and the girl by Myrna Loy, ably supported by Leo Carrillo.

Saturday, April 18
Moonlight Murder
A murder happens in an open-air amphitheater in California. A famous baritone is killed and then to add to the zest of things a few more murders are thrown in. The cop is Chester Morris, the girl Madge Evans.

Monday, April 20
Till We Meet Again
A truly delightful picture starring Herbert Marshall and Gertrude Michael. A story of the separation of lovers and of their difficulty in meeting again.

Tuesday, April 21
“Sky” Parade
A new actor—Jimmie Allen—flashes upon the screen for the first time and he gives an entertaining act. William Gargan at his funniest aids in the development of the plot.

Your throat protection—against irritation—against cough.