WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 7, 1936 THE DAVIDSONIAN, Page Three

DR. J. ROWAN, CONCORD MAN, SPEAKS SUNDAY
Speaker Is a Davidson Graduate and One of Her Best Friends

INSPIRATIONAL SERMON
Twenty-Third Psalm Analyzed Verse By Verse

Dr. Jesse C. Rowan of Concord, in his Sunday evening vespers address to the student body last Sunday evening in Chambers auditorium, presented a verse by verse analysis of Psalm 23. President W. L. Lingle introduced Dr. Rowan as “one of the best friends Davidson ever had.” In giving the Psalm, the speaker pointed out the beautiful fact that it was comforting, and revealing. It was his opinion that David had written this song in the latter years of his life, after he had lived long and intimately with his Maker.

Dr. Rowan stated that the first verse of the Psalm had been misinterpreted. He held to the translation by the late William McPheeters: “The Lord is my shepherd, I do not want.” The translation of the King James’ version, “I shall not want,” states a prediction of the future, something that the author of the song in no way intended. Had prophecy been David’s intention, criticism of his words would be possible by agnostics; in McPheeters’ version, no criticism of David's statement of present condition is possible.

“What the Lord has given us,” Dr. Rowan said, in effect, as he analyzed the second verse of the Psalm, “is promising us regeneration through Jesus Christ.” The speaker reasoned to this explanation of the power of regeneration: no two things can occupy the same space at the same time; therefore, as the love and life of Christ fill one’s soul, sin must depart from it.

Dwelling on verse three, the minister pointed out the fact that God guides His people in paths of righteousness so that their actions may not soil His good name and reputation. He went on to emphasize the aptness of the comparison of God's aid for humans to a shepherd’s staff for sheep: the staff is smooth and curved at one end, to help lift fallen sheep, and rough at the other end for protection from beasts; just so, God’s love aids and defends his people.

In conclusion, Dr. Rowan showed that David had complete faith in God's “goodness and mercy,” just as all Christians can and should have faith when he wrote this Psalm.

The complete order of service last Sunday:
Gloria Patri—Glee Club; prayer—Dr. W. L. Lingle; Hymn—Day Is Dying in the West; Scripture—Prof. E. A. Lessen; Prayer—Prof. E. A. Beatty; Offering; Hymn—How Firm a Foundation; Sermon; Hymn—Heavenly Father, Send Thy Blessing; Benediction; Hear Our Prayer, O Lord.

“There was less drinking and rowdiness at the State-Davidson game Saturday night than any I've attended in some time,” said Chief of Police H. L. Pierce. Police officers reported to me that they saw very little drinking, and this department would like to compliment both colleges. We didn’t make a single arrest.”

BOB STEWART ELECTED NEW EU PRESIDENT
Aims of Society Explained, Heckling Encouraged, Visitors Welcome

Meeting for the first time this year Tuesday night, the Eumenean Literary Society completed its organization, appointed committees, and made plans for the regular programs. The officers for the first quarter are: Robert Stewart, president; Haywood Hill, vice-president; Locke White, secretary; Fitzhugh Edward, reviewer; Stewart Dade, treasurer; and Finley, critic.

President Stewart explained briefly the aims and activities of the society and invited all freshmen interested in such activities to attend the meetings. The Eumenean Society, he said, attempts to promote clear thinking, public speaking, and writing. At its meetings, members engage in informal debates, read short stories, essays, and poetry of their own composition, and make formal extemporaneous speeches. At the end of each program, the reviewer criticizes the speeches, especially the manner of delivery.

Last year the Oxford Union type of debate was introduced. In this debate, the subject is announced at the beginning of the meeting. The speaker’s time is limited, but anyone may have the floor to join in the debate. “Heckling” by the audience is encouraged. Stewart also said that visitors would be welcome at all meetings, whether or not they intended to join.

Student Body Flocks North For Navy Tilt
Cat Rooters Go To Annapolis By “Thumb” or Car

The Davidson-Navy football game is now a thing of the past, but not the telling of it, for it is agreed this has been the most colorful football game that the Wildcats have had in recent years, and it will be a prime subject of Davidson bull sessions for weeks to come.

The student body this fall, as usual, was allowed one weekend of single cuts for whatever game they wished. In the voting, the weekend of the Navy game was the overwhelming favorite over the Furman game, which is scheduled for October 31. Dean Sentelle announced that from Friday noon until Monday morning, cuts would be single.

The exodus of Wildcat supporters began in earnest Friday morning, although a few daring individuals took off Thursday afternoon. Many and varied were the modes of transportation employed, for cars had been lined up behind dormitory row for days in advance. All of them were loaded as there had been a last-minute scramble for rides to the game at prices ranging from $3.00 on up. In the scramble for seats, some speculators sold rides for twice their original cost.

Besides the opulent men of means who could afford to charter round-trip rides to Annapolis, there were many who trusted in the time-honored method of bumming rides. All day Friday, groups met at the bumming corner and hopefully wiggled the old thumb northward. And (Continued on Page 6)

After the Game and Before the Dance
Bring Your Date to the
WOODEN BOWL DINING ROOM
125 W. FOURTH ST., CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Davidson Students Always Welcome

CAR FOR RENT
Cheap Rates . . Good Service
BILL BUSBY
At College Pharmacy

FAMOUS ALUMNI JOURNALISTS
The three Davidson alumni pictured above are from left to right: John P. McKnight, Witt Hancock, and Don Wharton. Mr. McKnight is now Associated Press bureau head in Mexico. Hancock is now in the A.P. office of London. Wharton is now writing for Scribner's Magazine. These three men are now well on their way to success in their literary style.

ADVICE TO FRESHMEN REPORTED BY “TIME”
Class of 1940 Interviewed in Various Colleges Over Nation

Amid the crash of arriving trunks and the scratching of multitudinous official blanks, the Class of 1940, 300,000 strong nationally, gathered in its new colleges. Its first official act was to hear addresses of welcome and counsel from its new presidents and advisors. Later greeted in many cases with fear and trembling, the incoming freshmen, armed as they were with laundry bags and coat-hangers, faced their new environment.

Its 300,000 members, according to a survey made at the University of Illinois, are better nourished and better developed than their predecessors, 87 percent of them being in “good to excellent physical shape.” Its New England members, according to the Journal of the American Medical Association, are the tallest group of human beings in the world, averaging 178.03 centimeters (circa. 5 ft. 10 in.). Following are some excerpts fromHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Presidents’ welcome addresses: “At New York University, the nation’s largest (enrollment: 42,850), Chancellor Harry Woodburn Chase assured freshmen that ‘in America youth is still reasonably free and can look forward to some measure of opportunity’.” “In darker mood, at the University of Chicago youthful President (Continued on Page 6)

B. Allen Commissioned Lieut. In Air Corps

Brooke Empie Allen of Wilmington, was recently commissioned a second lieutenant in the Army Air Corps, according to reports received here Monday. Mr. Allen was graduated from Davidson College in 1933. He then entered the Army Flying School at Randolph Field, Texas. Upon the successful completion of a course, he was given a commission in the Reserve Corps. Two years active duty followed, after which he was selected for a regular commission in the service, by reason of his splendid service. While a student at Davidson Mr. Allen was very distinguished on the college campus.

WE CATER TO YOUR WANTS
SOUTHERN 5 & 10c Store
SCHOOL SUPPLIES
118 West Trade

Phonograph Records—Victor Decca & Brunswick
All the Popular Numbers in Stock—Call By and Play Them
PARKER-GARDNER CO.
Charlotte, N. C.

Four Out of Five College Men Come To JOHNSTON’S BARBER SHOP

MEDICAL FRATERNITY PLANS YEAR'S WORK

Among the GREEKS this commun

ORDERS FOR R.O.T.C. UNIFORM ISSUED TO CORPS BY OFFICERS

Uniforms Must Be Well Cared For and Correctly Worn At Drill

Orders have been issued to the count to ensure that uniforms are well maintained and correctly worn during drills. The shirt must be tucked in neatly between the first and third buttons. Shirt sleeves should be rolled up and the top button fastened lightly to the right. (Continued on Page 6)

Smart as this double-breasted suit is, it’s only one of the many in our extensive Fall collection. As the town's exclusive headquarters for Hart Schaffner & Marx clothes, we make it our business to show a complete range of everything that's new, smart, and authentic from this famous maker. So whether it's the trim-fitting “Continental” or the casual drape models, the swagger Balmacaan topcoat or double-breasted town topcoat, you're certain to find “just what you were looking for” here!

210 So. Tryon
J © JONES INC

ARE EXHIBITED ON REXALL TRAIN

Davidson Navy played Annapolis. Among them were Ma, and tears went to the Davidson-Navy game in Annapolis. Brother Edwards visited in Greensboro over the weekend. Brothers Abbot and Squires visited in Charlotte. Brother Winn spent the weekend in Greenville, S.C. Meetings will be held once a week.

PI KAPPA ALPHA

Ellis Fisher of Salisbury, was pledged Saturday night. Walt Dickson attended the Georgia-Furman game in Anderson, S.C. Brothers G. B. Cleveland, A. O. Spoon, J. K. Abernethy, and Parker Connor attended the Davidson-Navy game. Alumni Brother Sam Milton, ’35, was seen at the Navy game. Brother Jim Anderson went to Greenville, S.C. Brother Dick Henning went to Albemarle over the weekend, while Brother I. J. Webb visited in Charlotte. Grand National Treasurer M. C. Farland will be the guest of the chapter over the coming week.

The Alpha Epsilon Delta medical fraternity is planning a new and better program for the coming year. Numerous public meetings with prominent physicians speaking on various topics will be held. The fraternity hopes that these meetings will become a regular part of the public's understanding of the medical profession.

The Davidson high school Photo Club under Dr. Lyon again this year held its first meeting of the year last Wednesday afternoon under the supervision of Dr. Lyon. As in the past, Dr. Lyon will sponsor the club and will try to increase the knowledge of the members. At this first meeting, questions were given to find out how much the new men knew about photography and what types of cameras they own.

This year the club hopes to be more active than ever. A contest will be held later in the year, but nothing definite about it has yet been settled. The club hopes to improve the dark room by adding an enlarger for all, a safe light, and an oil cloth table. Membership in the Photography Club is open for all who are interested, and anyone who wants to use the dark room must belong. Several new cameras have been obtained by the members and a greater and better output is expected this year.

“I lost my shirt... and found Rexall Convention Train. That smile? Well, wouldn’t you be happy too at showing off the Dionne Quintuplet’s nursing nipples. The nipples used by Marie, Cecile, Yvonne, Annette, and Emilie are among the exhibits carried on the Million-Dollar Train. They will be shown for public inspection wherever the train stops in this section.

P. H. HANES KNITTING CO., Winston-Salem, N. C.
WHITE DRUG CO.