5 Dr. Vowles Tours Europe With Son During Summer

See World Tennis Stars in Action at Wimbledon Courts

SEE OLYMPIC GAMES

Witness Bastille Day Military Demonstration

During the summer, Dr. Vowles and his son Richard took a two-month trip to Europe, sailing on June 14 on
the Bremen, visiting England, France, and Germany, and returning on the New York, landing on August 14. In England, they
rented an automobile for about two weeks and visited many points of interest, including the birthplace of Dr. Vowles’ father,
the village of Axbridge.

At Wimbledon, they saw many of the world’s best tennis players in action, including Cunningham, a Rhodes Scholar from North
Carolina and captain of the Oxford tennis team. At Oxford, they were guests at lunch of the Warden of House,
and at dinner at Queen's College of Hermann G. Fiedler, professor of German. They were also guests at the home
of Sir Francis Wylie, former Oxford secretary of the Rhodes Scholarships. A pleasant meeting in London was with M. C.
Worster, at whose christening in 1914 Dr. Vowles served as godfather. Worster’s father, a college friend of Dr. Vowles, was
killed in the war.

In Paris, the Vowleses saw the great military demonstration on Bastille Day, July 14. After a three-day trip to the
chateau country, they went by train from Paris to Cologne, then by steamer up the Rhine, and made a circle
of Germany, visiting Nuremberg, Frankfurt, Munich, Constance, Dresden, Berlin, Hamburg, etc. At the Olympic games, they saw 100,000 spectators give
the Nazi salute as the American National Anthem was played after Jesse Owens’ spectacular race.

After their return, Dr. Vowles and Richard rejoined Mrs. Vowles, who had spent the summer helping care for her invalid
mother in Morehead, Minn. All three returned to Davidson on September 2.

GREAT IMPROVEMENT SEEN IN STUD STORE

During the past summer, while the rest of us were loafing, Hal Overton and Stewart Barnes, the managers of the
student store, were busy. They, with the help of Davidson workmen, have put a brand new addition on the back
of the store. Besides this, they dug in and painted the interior of the new and old store, which, with
the increased store-room, gives our store a brand new appearance.

In this store-room are kept the empty bottle cases and other unsightly objects which littered the front room formerly. Also,
the large packing case that used to occupy a whole corner of the store is kept back out of sight,
leaving room for more cold drinks to be kept. Besides the improvements already brought about by this addition, there is
room left for more improvements in the future which were not previously possible due to lack of space.

Dr. Harding Addresses Classical Association

Dr. C. R. Harding, president of the Southern Section of the Classical Association of the Middle West and South, recently
attended the twenty-third annual meeting of the Presbyterian Educational Association of the South. At the meeting, Dr. Harding urgently pleaded
for the support of the association for a revival in the study of elementary Latin, especially in high schools. Dr.
Harding stated that for going into college and vocations, Latin is as important as other languages.

DAVIDSON LISTS NINE IN 1937 ‘WHO'S WHO’

Frank H. Cothran and Dr. A. S. Johnson, Davidson Patrons, Also Entered

The recently released 1936-37 edition of “Who's Who in America” gives mention to nine members of the Davidson College faculty
and two of the college's patrons. This book is published every two years, and a short biographical sketch is given
for all the contemporary Americans who have achieved national distinction. The members listed in the new issue are Dr. Walter
L. Lingle, president of the college; Dr. Howard B. Arbuckle, head of the Chemistry department; Dr. Frazier Hood, professor of
psychology; Dr. Thomas W. Lingle, senior professor of history; Dr. Scott C. Lyons, professor of biology; Dr. John W. McConnell,
college physician; Dr. C. M. Richards, senior professor of Bible; and Dr. M. E. Sentelle, dean. The Charlotte patrons listed
were Frank H. Cothran, civil engineer, and Dr. Albert Sidney Johnson, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Charlotte.

DAVIDSON STUDENT DRAFTED AS SCOUT FOR MAJ. BRITTON

Last Saturday, while Davidson was playing at Raleigh, many of our students went down to Charlotte to see Carolina play
Wake Forest. Henry Lyons was one of the flock but he was by far the luckiest, as he got a
chance to see the game for nothing, and was able also to observe the way that rival schools play each
other. On the outside of the stadium, Henry saw a man whom he recognized as A. H. Britton, assistant football
coach at the University of Tennessee, and scout. Being a venturesome soul, he walked up and introduced himself. Upon being
asked whether or not he had a ticket, he naturally responded in the negative. He was then invited to go
up into the press box to help the coach keep track of Carolina players, which invitation he accepted readily. He
was then set to the task of watching Carolina numbers so that Britton could tell which players Tennessee will have
to concentrate on next week. The Tennessee man didn’t say much about the results of his study, but when Carolina
started roaring in that last quarter, he probably did plenty of thinking. Well, if you'll take Henry’s word for it,
the best thing to do when you see a Tennessee scout outside of a Wake Forest-Carolina game is to introduce
yourself to him.

Frosh In Two Mile Struggle For Cake

The annual cake run was held yesterday afternoon. Coach Whittle asked for as many freshmen as possible to come out.
Some of the men who had been showing form before the race were: R. O. Kellogg, J. D. Gilliam, T.
E. McAlpine, Bill Black, and Earl Frazier. Although these men had been doing well, Coach Whittle doubted that they would
equal the mark set by T. E. Walker and D. E. Woodard last year. These men finished the race in
a dead heat for a new record of 9 minutes and 34 seconds. The old record of 9 minutes was
set by Earl Frazier in 1934. The first 25 men to finish the race are expected to go out for
the cross country team. All were freshmen.

THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 30, 1936

Everyone will be interested to know that this issue of Quips and Cranks will come out before the end of
school. All students who have sponsors are requested to have good-looking ones so that this department will add greatly to
the beauty of the Annual.

REMEMBER... You Always Save at Belk Brothers!

MEN'S Foot Fashion

Fitted By J. FRIEDMAN-SHELBY

The Boston Sinfonietta, which opened the Davidson College Concert Series with a recital in Chambers Auditorium last night, was founded
several years ago by Arthur Fiedler, its present conductor. It is made up of the outstanding members of the famous
Boston Symphony Orchestra.

FOR YEAR BOOK

The Red and Black Masquers, the college dramatic organization, looks forward to a season even more successful than last year's,
according to...

CAMPUS IMPROVED

Work has already been started on “Quips and Cranks,” Davidson College Annual. No very definite...You want to, but Tuesday, October
6th, to discuss plans have, however, been disclosed. 1 py. ly ‘dito’ yer 1\ r to Dunlap Covington, president of
there are twenty-six thousand brick Pts tet the coming year by the Editor, John \bernetl Ve of the club in
the new paving in front of Cham Meetings are held in the Phi hall the Business Manager, George Nor Although
no definite plans have bers; and that is not by far all SYS" 1st and 3rd Tuesday nights of fleet
been made yet, because a meeting of the improvements that Mr. Jack the month. Present officers of the coo ie
eae Wanies of the members has not been held, son has had made on the campus society are: J. H.
Galley, president; have the photographers come the the first reports from interested stu- this summer Hl. Harkey, vice president; and
eG ek of October 12 to VW At this dents shows an increase of enthus While the new brickwork and
D. A. McQueen, secretary time all the pictures will be taken iasm for the work of dramatics. door mats draw
to themselves more President Galley stated that at of the student body and faculty Application blanks make a larger of
the general gaze, the one hun the first meeting plans will be made The editor urges that all these hav
stack than they did last year; and dred beds just purchased consti- in a heckle hours in which two ing
their pictures to be sure and the freshmen class seems to have tute the biggest contribution to the speakers will
take opposite sides of have it done at this time, because many men willing to do work to- students’ comfort.
the subject while other members will this is the only trip of the photog wards a membership in the club
and Among the more invisible works on their errors. rapher to Davidson. It is hoped recognition on the campus. Acting,
of the summer is the incinerator in IV. CALENDAR OF EVENTS that all students will have their pic- the steam
plant to burn trash. All the inside rooms of the ture taken during this week. A Men who prefer a
conservative new stadium and the seats have been schedule for appointments with the cap toe model will be pleased with
painted—the seats with a paint that photographer will be posted at a later the new Foot-Fashion Stadium is supposed to
oxidize less and date. Very few of the campus pictures Blucher Oxford. It is comfortable therefore spare spectators clothes. have
already been taken for the Annual. and good looking. Additional lavatory facilities are Everyone is urged to begin taking snap-
Street Floor Shoe Dept. now found in the stadium and shots that will be suitable for the BELK plumbing has
been put in the Eagles Scraps and Cranks. All snapshots CHARLOTTE, N. C. Nest to the great joy of the
Eagles which will be accepted must be ar- lets. Another of the rooms in the tistic and perfect in development.
Fraternities Will Hold old “Y” has been made habitable Ping Pong Tourney and inhabited. The annual inter-fraternity ping- Davidson, M.D.,
of the Army Medi- pong competition will get under cal Research Board, Ancon, C.Z., way this week. Thus far, only
the elected president of the Medical S. P. E.'s and Kappa Sigs have Association of the Isthmian Canal entered, but
the Phi Gams will Zone at their meeting on June probably be represented, and there 4, 1936. is a possibility
of there being a Phi Delt team. Each team will be com- posed of five players, and all matches will
be played under inter- national ping-pong rules. The Rebs are now playing a tournament to decide who their best players
are. The seeded players in the tournament are Martin Barnett, Roy Gilks, and George Kuykendall. These men will prob- ably
be on the team, with the other two players to be decided by the outcome of the tournament. The Kappa
Sigs were for- tunate recipients of a new ping-pong table from Tom Morrison, one of their pledges, who had it
sent from his home. The best Kappa Sig play- ers are Harry Frampton, W. D. Morrison, and Tom Ferguson. Frampton
is the team manager and expects to give the S. P. E.'s, last year’s winners, some hot competi- tion.

Classroom Quotes
“We all want to be cheerful and artistic liars.”
“I wouldn't want my girl to come up and say to me, ‘I love you with all my heart.’ I'd
rather her to say, ‘I love you with all my thalamus’.”
“If you'll let me out five minutes early today, so I can see Carolina and Wake Forest play baseball, I'll
give you a cut Thursday.”
“The young ladies don’t notice me any more.”

Suggested Centennial project: Soundproofing either the present building of the Davidson College Conservatory of Music, or the Li- brary. Or
maybe just stuffing horns with cotton and cutting drum heads would do the trick.

The Readers’ Digest quotes Charles Lamb as saying: “Not many sounds... exceed in interest a knock at the door.” Could
he mean “Knock-Knock?”

Engineers came this summer and accurately surveyed the campus locating all steam, water, sewer, and electric lines to the foot.
They established the exact levels of the first floors of all buildings by running lines from the bench mark on
the church. This map will be useful to the architects when planning the Centennial program in construction.

Rubber was laid in the floor hall of Chambers Building, north, first floor.

H. GRADY KINSLAND
The Storrs-Schaefer Stylist
WILL CONDUCT A SPECIAL SHOWING OF
Fall & Winter WOOLENS FOR MEN’S INDIVIDUALLY TAILORED SUITS and TOPCOATS
Oct. 5 and 6
at
MISS MINNIE’S
DICK JOHNSON
—and—
HOKE ROBINSON
Representatives

With Double Ink Capacity and Full-length Visible Ink Supply Shows DAYS AHEAD When It’s Running Low

Do the thing that you know is the thing to do—replace your old-style pen with this miracle Vacumatic— Parker’s revolutionary
invention that holds 102% more ink WITHOUT INCREASE IN SIZE—that shows the ENTIRE ink supply, not merely the last drop—shows
not only when your pen is empty, but shows DAYS AHEAD when it’s running low, so it CAN’T run dry
against your will!

FOR HIGHER GRADES IN COLLEGE
Get the Pen That Never Runs Dry in Classes or Exams

Today the Parker Vacumatic is the world’s long-distance writer and Style and Beauty Winner—the sac- less marvel whose simple working
parts are sealed in the top—never touched by ink, hence won't cor- rode or fail. That’s why it’s GUAR- ANTEED
Mechanically Perfect. In the hands of millions of users, using all kinds of ink, this marvelous pen has repeatedly proved
that it “can take it” anywhere and any time —it never leaves its owner gasping for ink in classes or
exams. If you'll go and try its marvelous SCRATCH-PROOF Point of pre- cious Platinum and Solid Gold, you'll give your
old-style pen to the rum- mage sale. Look for the smart ARROW clip—this ARROW identi- fies the genuine. The Parker
Pen Co., Janesville, Wis.

The All-American College Favorite
Junior, $5
Over-Size, $10
Pencils, $2.50, $3.50 and $5
