WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 16, 1936 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Three

LIBRARY HAS EXHIBIT OF CHINESE WRITINGS AND COPIES OF BIBLE
Works of Mencius, Chinese Dictionary, and Novel Are Displayed

BEST-SELLERS SHOWN
“Gone With the Wind” Leads Popular Books

A number of works in Chinese and Bibles in various languages have been placed in the exhibition case on the
main floor of the library, and a display of jackets from recent best-sellers now in the library is on the
main bulletin board in the lobby. The upstairs bulletin board contains the jackets from a number of books recently acquired
by the library.

Among the books on display is a set of the writings of Mencius, a disciple of Confucius, a dictionary of
the Chinese language in seven volumes of approximately 44,000 characters with pronunciation and definitions. There is also one of the
most famous and earliest of Chinese novels, the Tale of the Three Kingdoms, written in the 13th century. This is
illustrated and is in sixteen small volumes. There is also a comprehensive English work on Chinese characters, a copy of
one of the Buddhist Sacred Writings, and a copy of the Imperial Edition of the New Testament, printed from the
same plates as the original copy presented to the Empress Dowager. There is also a Gothic translation of the gospels,
with the Vulgate translation of Jerome interleaved in long hand, and a Polyglot Bible published in Germany, giving the comparison
in parallel columns of the Septuagint, Hebrew, and Latin scriptures with Luther's German translation.

The best-seller list includes such fiction as Gone With the Wind, Drums Along the Mohawk, I Am the Fox, and
The Long Night. Non-fiction on the best-seller list includes An American Doctor's Odyssey, Man the Unknown, Audubon, The Bible Designed
to Be Read as Living Literature, Jefferson in Power, Way of the Transgressor, and the Best Plays of 1936.

Around Town
Mrs. W. W. Wood entertained at their home Thursday evening for the Alpha Sigma Epsilon social fraternity. Mr. and Mrs.
F. D. Hobart visited in Smithfield last week. This town is Mrs. Hobart’s native town.

The Sorosis Club held its Christmas party at the home of Mrs. A. L. Hobbs on Friday evening. Miss Hattie
Thompson and Mrs. A. R. Caldwell were in charge of the program.

Mr. Edwin Shewmake, now in bed because of a knee operation, is improving nicely and it is probable that he
will be up before Christmas.

Mrs. F. K. Fleagle and Mrs. W. W. Wood entertained at a miscellaneous shower on this Wednesday afternoon for Miss
Lucy Currie.

TRIPS PLANNED FOR DEBATORS
Varsity Debaters Pair-Up in Preparation For Coming Debates

BOB STEWART MANAGER
One Debate to Be Held on Campus This Year

Bob Stewart, manager of the varsity debating team, has announced that plans are now being made as to how the
debaters shall be paired and which shall make each trip. He expects these plans to be completed by the Christmas
holidays. It is the custom for the debaters to make three trips each year, a northern, a southern, and a
western, with a different pair of men going on each one. Each trip includes several debates, and these have been
arranged as follows: Southern—College of Charleston, University of Florida, Rollins College, and Emory University. Western—Sewanee, Washington and Lee University, Centre
College, and University of Richmond. Northern—Swarthmore, LaFayette, and University of Virginia. Other questions than the one on hours and wages
will be used, but these have not yet been definitely decided upon on account of the delay in pairing the
teams. Only one debate will be held on the home campus this year, the rest of those being scheduled at
local high schools and towns. Besides these, there will be several radio debates.

RIFLE RANGE REBUILT AND PRACTICE BEGINS
Promising Candidates Now Firing in Greatly Improved Gallery

Cochran Rifle Range, which is located in the basement of the armory, has recently been repaired and improved, thus placing
it in excellent condition. Flood lights have been installed in such a way that the targets are sufficiently lighted for
night firing, and mats have been provided by the college so that the firer may sit or lie down without
contacting the concrete floor. These improvements are calculated to increase the scores of the riflemen as well as protect their
clothing.

Freshmen R. O. T. C. men began firing on December 14, and will continue it until January 29. This is
a continuation of an extensive course in rifle marksmanship which was completed on December 12. When instruction has advanced sufficiently,
a team of qualified upperclassmen will be formed to represent the college in competition with approximately twenty other colleges and
the University of Hawaii. Several challenges have already been accepted by Major Ballard, who is in charge of rifle marksmanship.
Walter Pharr will captain the team, succeeding Sob Theiling, who is unable to continue in that capacity due to a
conflict in his college schedule; Theiling will, however, remain a shooting member of the team. The coaching of the riflemen
will be done personally by Major Ballard.

ARCHITECTS’ SKETCH OF DAVIDSON’S CAMPUS, 1987
THE DAVIDSON COLLEGE CAMPUS of the year 1987 will look like the above picture, if the dreams of the Administration
materialize on schedule. Travelers flying overhead will look down on a group of buildings all built to complement Chambers. In
the sketch above you will notice, between the present dormitory row and the north entrance to Chambers, a large social
center, which will contain, in addition to game and social rooms, a commodious dining room in the mode of those
found in the old English universities. Near the present tennis courts is seen the gymnasium, containing the long-hoped-for swimming pool,
plus two basketball courts, and several squash courts. The $200,000 library stands on the site of the old gym, near
the Social Center. Across from this edifice is a new science building, and behind Chambers are academic and administrative halls.
On the site now occupied by the home of President Lingle, and the late Dean of the Faculty, Dr. J.
M. McConnell, is a quadrangle of dormitories, designed to care for the increased enrollment this expansion of facilities will bring
to the College.

C. Crane Talks to French Club
“Noel Au Congo Belge” Chosen as Topic By Guest Speaker

Le Cercle Francais held their meeting at the home of Dr. G. B. Watts on Tuesday, December 15. The Christmas
program was in line with the season. Reverend C. J. Crane was guest speaker using the topic, “Noel au Congo
Belge.” Following his talk, Oscar Armstrong talked on “Noel a France.” There was also a subject en talk by Lem
Kornegay. The high-light of the evening was reached in the production of a comedy written and directed by John Reisner
entitled “Le Debut du Pere Noel.” J. R. McClelland played the part of Santa Claus, Wade Barrow the part of
a business agent, and J. N. Smith the part of the Professor. An orchestra and quartet rendered some Christmas music.
The singing was led by the quartet in some of the more famous French carols.

Deputation Goes To Church In Marvin
Last Sunday morning a musical deputation was sent to the Marvin Presbyterian Church in Marvin, N. C. These men were
Weldon Yow, William Ezell, Warren Janks, and M. Efland. Yow sang a solo and played a violin selection. Ezell accompanied
these men in their solos. On Sunday evening another musical deputation visited the First Presbyterian Church in Concord, N. C.
It was composed of the varsity quartet and the string trio who rendered a program of sacred Christmas music.

Mrs. C. S. Goodrum with Miriam and Cloyd spent the day in Greensboro with her daughter, Emily Goodrum, a student
at Ohio State University.

MIMS SPEAKS TO PHI BETAS
Local Chapter Initiates Nine Seniors and Four Distinguished Alumni

An address on “Scholarship,” by Dr. Edwin Mims, head of Vanderbilt University English Department, marked the fall initiation ceremony and
banquet of the Davidson chapter of Phi Beta Kappa, a national scholarship fraternity, here Friday night. Dr. Mims, a distinguished
visitor of Dr. Walter Lingle for two days, is a very prominent American educator and author. He has just returned
from a 14 months’ stay in Europe, which was spent mostly in England. Nine seniors and four distinguished alumni were
initiated into the Phi Beta Kappa ceremony held before the banquet in Chambers dining hall. The nine seniors were: Frank
A. Brown, Jr., of Hsuchowfu, China; Jack E. Branch, Washington, D. C.; Roy S. Bigham, Charlotte, N. C.; John C.
Winn, Greenville, S. C.; Kenneth M. Scott, Tsinatifu, China; R. H. Patterson, Trenton, Tenn.; T. G. Thurston, Taylorsville, N. C.;
John D. Allen, Louisville, Ky.; and Char-Les B. Ross, Charlotte, N. C. The alumni members who were initiated were four
members of the old Mimir Scholastic Society, predecessor to the Phi Beta Kappa at Davidson. They were: Mr. S. J.
Milikan, ‘10, Greeneville, Tenn.; Professor J. C. Bailey, ’22, Davidson College; Rev. James Sprunt, '22, Lynchburg, Va.; and Dr. J.
McD. Richards, ’22, Decatur, Ga.; and Dr. Julian P. Price, ’22, Florence, S.C.

The As-You-Like-It Club held a Christmas party at the home of Mrs. F. L. Jackson on Thursday evening.

Dr. McDowell Richards, President of Columbia Theological Seminary, visited in Davidson where he will visit relatives with his parents, Dr.
and Mrs. J. R. Withers. The cost of voting by mail was $175.

The Junior Class is now busy making plans for the annual Junior-Senior Banquet. The class is under the direction of
Miss Maude Vinson, who is helping them in their work.

The Davidson high school orchestra, under the supervision of Mr. Warren Perry Babcock, gave a recital on Monday evening in
the Chambers Banquet Hall.

NEAR OLD DANCE EXPERT
Every Job a Good One
WORKMANSHIP HIGHEST QUALITY
New Dutch Buffet
PUFF SHOE SHOP and Grill
HALF SOLES
Standard Printing Company
Welcome To Students
HEELS
117 Garland Court
Charlotte, N. C.
Cor. 4th & Church Sts.
O. C. BUFF, Prop.

WINNING PHOTOGRAPHS WILL BE CHOSEN SOON
Fred Smith and Dr. Lyon to Select Best Entries in Picture Contest

A group of excellent pictures of Davidson life have been submitted to the judges of The Davidsonian’s photographic contest and
the prizes will be awarded as soon as possible. Pictures were placed in the hands of the judges, Fred Smith
and Dr. S. C. Lyon, immediately after the deadline was reached Monday and they are considering them thoroughly as to
composition, human interest, and ability, which will probably necessitate a slight prolongment of the final decision. The Davidsonian will present
the best three entries ($5.00; second $3.00; and third $1.00). The photograph winning the first award will be published in
The Davidsonian in the near future, while around a half dozen of the best snapshots will be sent to the
Collegiate Digest.

DAVIDSON THEATER
Wed. Dec. 16
As You Like It
An interesting adaptation of Shakespeare's favorite comedy with Elisabeth Bergner, Britain's most popular actress, as Rosalind and Laurence Olivier as
Orlando.

Thurs.-Fri. Dec. 17-18
Pennies From Heaven
Bing Crosby croons romantic love songs to pretty Madge Evans in one of the liveliest of the recent musical comedies.
Plenty of fast action, too.

Sat. Dec. 19
White Hunter
Warner Baxter and June Lang, the lovers of “Road to Glory” are again paired in an exciting adventure in the
African jungles.

Mon.-Tue. Dec. 21-22
Smartest Girl In Town
Blonde Ann Sothern and Gene Raymond are seen together in a gay comedy revolving about a plot of mistaken identity.
Eric Blore and Helen Broderick, the howling comedians of “Swing Time,” are included in the able supporting cast.

HARRIS BRADLEY GIVEN MAGAZINE SUBSCRIPTION
Harris W. Bradley was the recipient of an award given each year by the National chapter of Gamma Sigma Epsilon
to the man in each local chapter who is voted by his fellow members to be the most interested. The
award in this case is a subscription to any one of three chemistry journals. Bradley has chosen The Journal of
the American Chemistry Society. This award is a coveted prize among members of Gamma Sigma Epsilon over the country, one
member of each local chapter being elected to receive it. It is a most appropriate recognition of interest in chemistry
as a subscription to a chemical journal is a valuable asset to a man who intends to take up some
phase of chemistry as his life work.

"The best shirt I ever wore!"
THERE are no BUTTS (nor “ifs” and “ands,” either) about a HANES Shirt! Wait till you get its lively, elastic
lightness clasping your chest in its feather-weight grip; snuggling comfortably under your arms; cool and smooth on your back. You’ve
never felt more trim and clean-cut in your life! And, Gentlemen, here is an undershirt that won't get your goat...
won't ride up in the rear or front to make a worrisome wad at your waist! A Hanes shirt-tail is
too long for that. It’s out of sight and out of mind—which means it's in your shorts! Every time you
buy a Hanes Shirt, team it up with a pair of Hanes Shorts. You'll find we give the seat full
consideration — leave you enough space to sit, stoop, or walk without being cramped in the crotch! Colors last... guaranteed
fast.

FOR MEN AND BOYS FOR EVERY SEASON
P. H. Hanes Knitting Co. Winston-Salem, N. C.

24 INITIATES WILL BE TAKEN INTO ‘D’ CLUB SOME TIME THIS WEEK
Managers, Football Men, Cross Country Runners to Be Admitted
ADOPT 8-INCH LETTERS
Initials of Sport Will Be Placed in Letters

Sometime this week, a band of grotesquely attired “D” Club initiates will mount the chapel rostrum and engage in some
rather bizarre antics. Following these kittenish performances the initiates will prepare for further and more boisterous initiation ceremonies in the
afternoon, featuring eggs, flour, molasses and plenty of horseplay. The managers of the different sports, all football players who won
their first letters this fall, and four members of the cross-country team will be initiated in a public informal initiation
and in a more private formal initiation by the “D” club. Approximately nineteen seniors, one junior and four sophomores will
enter the club.

Add Minor Sport
Cross-country, which made its appearance on the campus this fall after a year’s absence, was added to the list of
minor sports by the athletic council at a recent meeting. The council also voted to make all letters 8 inch
block D's. Under the rules, up to this time only one sport, football, had 8 inch block D's, while three
major sports, basketball, track, and baseball and all three minor sports have 6 inch block D's. Also the council decided
to have the initials of the sports: golf, tennis and wrestling put in the letters awarded for that sport. All
managers are to have the initial M put in the letters they receive, while equipment managers will have the initials
EM put in their letters, and freshmen managers will have the initials FM put in their letters.

This award is a coveted prize among members of Gamma Sigma Epsilon over the country, one member of each local
chapter being elected to receive it. It is a most appropriate recognition of interest in chemistry as a subscription to
a chemical journal is a valuable asset to a man who intends to take up some phase of chemistry as
his life work.

You're “sized-up” every day
There's nothing quite so merciless as the way the other fellow sizes you up when you meet him for the
first time... at the office, in the club, when you call to sell him, or in casual meetings on the
street. His eyes take in everything... at once his mind says, "An energetic live-wire who's going places"... or "kind of
seedy looking—don't imagine he'll ever get anywhere." No matter what his impression, it's based on those first few important minutes
of contact. For fifty years Hart Schaffner & Marx clothes have helped millions of men make a good impression. That's
why we're proud to be the town's exclusive representative for the Trumpeter label.

JONES, Inc.
For Christmas Presents
THE STUDENT STORE
Parker Gas Pens $6.00
Davidson Seal Jewelry
