THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 4, 1936

VISIT OF WILSON TO DAVIDSON RECALLED
Noted Alumnus Picks Out His Former Room In Old Chambers

SPUR-OF-MOMENT TRIP
Records Credit War President With High Grades
By Jack Lafferty

“This is one place I can’t make a speech, I've tried it before.” This is the remark that Woodrow Wilson made while standing on the balcony of the Eumenean Hall during his visit to Davidson while he was President of the United States. Wilson made this visit twenty years ago this May, while he was in Charlotte for the twentieth of May celebration. He didn’t make up his mind until that morning that he was coming to Davidson, and as he wanted the visit to be very informal, he wouldn't even let Dr. William J. Martin, President of Davidson, precede him to the college. In some way, the news leaked out that he was going to visit Davidson, and when he arrived here that evening by motor, quite a crowd of students and townspeople had gathered to meet him.

His party, consisting of himself, his wife, Dr. and Mrs. Martin, and several secret service men drove up the street facing the campus and around. Here, Wilson expressed the desire to visit his old room, No. 13, Old Chambers. Even though he had been away from the college for forty-five years, he showed no hesitancy in finding the room. He remarked that it looked very familiar. He pointed out of the window to the place where he chopped wood to heat his room. This room was then occupied by A. L. Young and H. B. Craig. Tradition says that one of these men was in the room when he arrived, and when he knocked on the door, the man in the room asked him who was there. Wilson answered, “Woodrow Wilson,” and the boy yelled back, “You can't fool me, but come on in.” Wilson entered, and it is said when the boy saw who it was he jumped out of the window. However, no documentary evidence to this can be found.

When Wilson left Chambers, he went to the Eumenean Society Hall where he had received his first training in public speaking. He said of this hall that it was substantially what it was when he knew it, except that the seats were different. As he left this hall, he made a few remarks from the balcony of the hall to the students who had gathered there, and they gave yells for the President and Mrs. Wilson. After this, the President and his party returned to Charlotte.

Some people have said that Wilson failed the one year he was here at school, but this is incorrect. This impression arose because someone confused Wilson with another man of a similar name who was here at the same time. On the contrary, Wilson's grades were above the average. His grades for the fall semester were as follows: Logic and Rhetoric, 95; Greek, 87; Latin, 90; Math, 74; Composition, 96; Declamation, 92; Deportment, 100; Average 87.07%. During the spring semester, he was sick a good deal, but in spite of this, his grades were a little higher. They were: English, 97; Greek, 88; Latin, 94; Composition, 95; Declamation, 92; Deportment, 100; Average, 93.42%. His average for the entire year was 91.50%. His sickness during the second semester caused him to be out of school quite a bit, for the record shows that he had 44 excused absences from prayers, three from church, and 66 from classes. During the first semester, the only absences recorded against him don't specify what they were in and there were only two of them.

TIME FOR IT
Old Slow Poke: “Mister Jackson, er—that is, I would like to er—that is, I mean I have been going with your daughter for five years.”
Jackson: “Well, whadda ya want—a pension?”

Special !! Popularity Bobs For Ladies
OVERCASH Barber Shop

Hood Speaks to Ministers February 25
Davidson Professor Lectures On “What Is Modern Psychology?”

Dr. Frazier Hood spoke last Tuesday evening, in the Dean’s office, to a group of ministers from this region of North Carolina on “What Is Modern Psychology,” as distinct from the older view of psychology as a science. His address was the fourth of a series which are being delivered here as a result of the request of the ministers in towns around. They were opened on January 7, when Dr. Lingle lectured on the subject of “Archaeology,” and were continued by Dr. Foreman’s lecture on some phase of “Ethics,” and Dr. Gwynn’s lecture on “Sociology.”

Dr. Hood emphasized the fact that, whereas the older psychologists stemmed their science from philosophy, modern authorities leave out all ethical attachments and derive the science from physics and physiology, treating man, not primarily as an immortal soul, but as a creature whose reactions are to be studied as would those of an animal. So, when criticizing the psychologists and psychometrists, we must remember that they are not concerned with the ethical side. Thirdly, we must remember that psychology, as a science, is still inchoate; there are different schools of psychology, and in disagreeing with one, we are not necessarily proving the science in error. It has not sufficient age to be resolved into one connected body of doctrine yet.

Museum Has Rare Pieces
Two Antique Clay Cones and Household God Existed In 2000 B.C.

Recently placed in the museum are two cones which date back to 2000 B.C., and which came from the land of Ur of the Chaldees. These cones were found in the ruins of a temple wall at Mugheir. They are made of clay and are about six inches high. These were buried with several duplicates to serve as a cornerstone for the temple so that people could tell who built it. These cones were taken from the temple built by Libit-Ishtar, a prominent king of Babylon, who was ruling at the time of Abraham. The writing on the cones is the best that has been discovered to show the exact writing and civilization of the time of Abraham and for this reason, these small pieces are extremely precious and important to archaeologists the entire world over.

Also, there is in the museum a household god taken from the temple of Ishtar and which existed in 2000 B.C. This god is made of clay, is about two inches wide and three inches high, and takes the form of a woman with her hands crossed in front of her breast. This image is typical of the ones made by the priests and sold to the pilgrims who took them home and put them in their prayer niches. Idols such as these were so sacred that it was a capital crime to break one. Both the cones and the idol are to be studied as would those of any ancient civilization.

Among the GREEKS:
Beta Theta Pi—The following alumni were present for formal initiation: Brothers Winn, Smith, Brewer, Atwater, and McClintock. The regular weekly feed was held Sunday night.

Pi Kappa Alpha—Brothers “Sky” Cline and Bill Archer attended a dance at the Mobile, Alabama, chapter in Greensboro over the weekend. Brother Walter Ogburn visited the local chapter during the weekend. The regular feed was held Sunday night.

Kappa Alpha—Brothers Anderson, Harris, Hines, and Taylor attended a dance in Greensboro over the weekend. Pledge-Brother Bill Preyer spent the weekend at home in Greensboro. Brother Tom Downie attended the TRC Convention at Winthrop College. Brother Harvey McConnell went home for the weekend. Pledge-Brother C. B. Gladden went to Columbia, S.C.Lutz Raleigh as his destination. The chapter room is being refurnished * * * Many of the brothers and pledges spent the weekend off the campus: Pledges McCullock and Sloan attended the Grail dance at Carolina Saturday night; Brothers Marchant, Matthis, and Eve visited in Charlotte; Henry Mills, Kenneth Fryfogle, and Pledge Pete Marchant went to Greenville, S.C.; Brother Ed Armfield went to Asheboro; Brother Yates Faison and Pledge Neil Whitlock stayed in Charlotte; Brother Herman Clark went to Fayetteville; and Pledges Tom Dunn and Eric Erwin attended the week-end in Laurinburg. Several faculty members were formally invited to the regular feed Sunday night. The pledges are expected to be initiated Thursday night in Phi Hall * * * Kappa Sigma Brothers Prosser Morrow, Johnny Pierce, Charlie Thompson, Mal Grimes, Hank Lofton, and Treadway Purnell attended a Kappa Sigma dance in Spartanburg given by Brother Bud Seigall for the Wofford chapter. Joe Dees and Pledge Gaw spent the weekend in Greensboro. Billy Hill and George Norfleet spent the weekend in Raleigh with Brother Wyatt of State College. The chapter planned a feed for Sunday night in honor of Brother W. T. Thompson, the speaker at the Vespers. Several alumni (Continued on Page 6).

Foster Is Featured On Radio Broadcast

The Davidson orchestra, glee club, and quartette were brought together under the direction of Professor Pfohl to present the regular weekly program last Friday night, February 28. The program consisted of melodies by the famous Southern composer, Stephen Foster. Grier Martin, alumni secretary, gave a short story of each song that was presented. The half-hour program opened with “O Davidson,” and was followed by “Old Folks at Home,” which was sung by the glee club. The quartette, composed of Paul Hudson, J. D. Allen, Charles Ramseur, and Donald Pfohl, sang several selections. Among these melodies carrying out the Stephen Foster theme were: “Nelly Was a Lady,” “Oh! Susanna,” “Old Dog Tray,” “Old Uncle Ned,” “Some Folks,” “Nelly Bly,” “Oh! Boys, Carry Me ‘Long,” and “Old Black Joe.” As a closing song, the glee club sang probably the most famous of all the works of this great composer, “My Old Kentucky Home.”

Davidson Theatre

WEDNESDAY
PRISONER OF SHARK’S ISLAND
With Warner Baxter, John Carradine, and O. P. Heggie

THURSDAY AND FRIDAY
ROSE MARIE
With Nelson Eddy and Jeanette MacDonald

SATURDAY PREVIEW
MURDER MYSTERY
With Reginald Denny, Frances Drake, and Gail Patrick

MONDAY AND TUESDAY
THE GHOST GOES WEST
With Jean Parker and Donat, as Murdock Glourie

SEWER PLANT PLACED HERE
New Bio-Reduction System Is Mechanical and Chemical Process
LOCAL PLANT SUPERIOR
Roeder, Shad Developers of Purifying Unit
By Milton Crisp

The Sewage Plant at Davidson is the first plant of this new type to be installed in the United States; it is an entirely different method of sewage disposal. The “Bio-Reduction” system, which is a bio-chemical reduction system, starts with a comminutor. This instrument, placed underground directly in the sewage channel, grinds up all rags, bones, and debris to a uniform small size. It does away with mechanical bar screens and other devices which bring coarse-floating offal above ground for further handling. Immediately beyond the comminutor, stabilized humus or bio-loam from the end reaction is added and mixed into the sewage for a period of 15 to 20 minutes. The first effect of this agent is to absorb all odors and disintegrate organic matter. The added bio-loam is allowed to settle for 20 minutes, during which time it carries down much of the suspended matter in the original sewage. Iron is then added and mixed in for 20 minutes, after which the floc which has been formed is allowed to settle for an hour. The effluent from this process passes through a suitable filter and is ready for discharge after chlorination. The sludge which has settled out during the two settling periods is passed through a centrifuge and is then ready for the stabilizer. In the stabilizer, it is stored in moderately ventilated conditions for a period of five days. During this time, it undergoes active oxidation, producing carbon dioxide and heat which drives off most of the moisture. To break up any lumps which may have formed, it is then passed through a disintegrator and back into storage for another five days. At the end of this period, it will have completed its oxidation and will have dried itself out to a stable, non-fermentable loam. This plant is superior in regard to purification and costs. It requires less room and the by-products of the plant have commercial value. It was developed by Major George E. Roeder and Mr. F. C. Shad, who is in charge of the work at Davidson. This project was undertaken five years ago and has only been completed recently. The plant has been visited by Aldermen from the City of Montreal, the Provincial Engineer of the Province of Quebec, a committee of engineers from the Department of Sanitation of New York City, two men from the New York State Conservation Department, and a man from the New Jersey State Board of Health.

THAT WAS ENOUGH
Uncle and niece stood watching the young people dance about them.
“Eh, uncle, bet you never saw any dancing like that back in the ‘nineties, eh?”
“Once—but the place was raided.”

FRI.-SAT.
Marie Purl Presents
“SAY IT WITH LADIES”
7—Big Acts—7
25 Entertainers
Girls, Music, Comedy, Dancing

TOM MOORE
Laugh at His Bragging—
Thrill to His Deeds
VICTOR McLAGLEN
Freddie Bartholomew
—in—
“PROFESSIONAL SOLDIER”

Mon. Regular Tue. 25c Wed. Prices

Answers Given For Quadrangler Test
1. False. 2. False. 3. False. 4. True. 5. True. 6. False. 7. True. 8. True. 9. False. 10. False. 11. False. 12. False. 13. True. 14. True. 15. False. 16. False. 17. True. 18. False. 19. False. 20. True. 21. False. 22. True. 23. False. 24. False. 25. False. 26. True. 27. False. 28. False. 29. True. 30. False. 31. False. 32. False. 33. False. 34. False. 35. False. 36. True. 37. False. 38. False. 39. False. 40. True. 41. True. 42. True. 43. True. 44. False. 45. False. 46. True. 47. False. 48. False. 49. False.

Remember, the highest faculty score in this test was 28.

Ingredients of Vicks VapoRub in Convenient Candy Form
VICKS COUGH DROP

“I bet you never saw any dancing like that back in the ‘nineties, uncle.”
“Once—but the place was raided.”

RICH, RIPE-BODIED TOBACCO—"IT’S TOASTED”
Excess of Acidity of Other Popular Brands Over Lucky Strike Cigarettes

BALANCE
LUCKY STRIKE
STANDARDIZED UNIFORMITY

The simple mechanical details of cigarette manufacture are of surprising importance. Upon them depend the physical properties of the cigarette, such as weight, size, firmness, moisture-holding properties, uniformity of fill—uniformity of product—all of which have a far-reaching effect on the character of its combustion and the constituents of its smoke. In the manufacture of Lucky Strike Cigarettes, all of these properties have been standardized with care for the perfection of A LIGHT SMOKE. Recent chemical tests show that other popular brands have an excess of acidity over Lucky Strike of from 53% to 100%.

RESULTS VERIFIED BY INDEPENDENT CHEMICAL LABORATORIES AND RESEARCH GROUPS

“IT’S TOASTED” — Your throat protection — against irritation — against cough

© 1936 The American Tobacco Company