WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 25, 1936 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Five

AMONG THE GREEKS

Most of the fraternities had a very quiet weekend with only a few of their members going anywhere except to
the Davidson retreat. Those who stayed on the campus entertained themselves in fraternity row.

Beta Theta Pi
Robert Frazier, District Supervisor, called on the chapter Sunday afternoon. John Winn went home and Pledge Charles Smith went to
Gainesville, Ga. Tom Abbott took in the dances at Chapel Hill. A trustee of the fraternity is being entertained at
a banquet Wednesday night. He is also vice-president.

Pi Kappa Alpha
Bob McClelland went to his home in Johnson City, Tenn., for the weekend. John Horton visited Bessemer City and Charlotte.
Sky Cline took a short trip to Concord over the weekend.

Kappa Alpha
Scotty McLeod of Brevard visited the chapter over the weekend. Sunday night there was a feed and there will be
another Wednesday night. Banks Gladden, A. S., and J. P. Moffett had a pleasant time at Converse.

Pi Kappa Phi
Bidwell Ivy motored to Rock Hill, S. C., to visit his parents (so it is said). Sam Hemphill spent the
weekend in Marion. Salem College drew pledges Harry Hendrick and Dave Calvin to its portals. The house will be open
and refreshments served throughout the day Thanksgiving.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon
Springs Pharr of the junior class was pledged over the weekend. Pete Marchant, Billy Nichokolsin, and Kenneth Fryfogle spent the
weekend visiting their homes. Ed Armfield and George Matthis were attracted to Sullins College in Bristol, Va. A feed was
held Sunday night.

Kappa Sigma
Bobby Florence, Bancroft Mosely, Ed Finley, “Boo” Walker, and Wade Boggs made their presence known in Greensboro to a number
of young ladies (?). John McQueen visited his home in Dillon, S. C.

Phi Gamma Delta
Rut Miller, Arthur and Owen Cooke, Gene and Elie Ganier, and Jack Tillotson took Greensboro by storm. Bob Stewart spent
the weekend in Gainesville, Ga., while Tyler Port danced at a dance in Salem. Dr. and Mrs. Cummings were guests
at Sunday night feed. It has been rumored that Jim Dorsett rode the train to Salisbury with beautiful surroundings to
relieve the monotony. Willamena Monroe of Domo, Tenn., visited the chapter over the weekend.

Phi Delta Theta
J. L. McClelland attended the Scabbard and Blade Convention in Raleigh. Breeden, Covington, and J. W. Tonnissen spent the weekend
in Spartanburg and Atlanta respectively. A new ping-pong table has been installed. There was a feed Sunday night.

WARNER BROS. CHARLOTTE, N. C. NOW AND ALL WEEK “3 Men On A Horse” Southern Premier

SENIOR PLAYERS ARE VOLLEYBALL CHAMPS
Juniors Come Second, Sophs Third, Frosh Fourth in Intramurals

The high-powered seniors last week won the title as champions of volleyball. They completely outclassed the other three teams and
coasted to an easy triumph in the last game. They won all of their six scheduled games, amassing a total
pointage of 20.

The Juniors played good ball, but were not able to stand up against the powerful playing seniors. The Juniors won
four of their six games for a total of 15 points. The sophs ran third, winning two and losing four
games for a pointage of 10, while the freshmen were unable to win a game, but amassed a pointage of
5.

The seniors' devastating attack was well planned, each man doing his duty. The ball was always fed to the net
men, who had a very good chance to kill it on their opponents' side. This style of play was very
characteristic and it proved very effective. This series was an especially good one and much spirit was shown.

FACULTY MEN (Continued from Page 1)
...tempts to guide the student through the first two years of his college life, on and off the campus as
well as in class room work. The second speaker of the evening was Professor Blackburn, chairman of the committee on
Honors at Duke University, who spoke on the new system of divisional honors which is being initiated this year at
Duke. Prof. Blackburn, who has made an intensive study of the systems of undergraduate honors at present in use in
various American universities, pointed out that there were two main methods in dealing with honors work in American colleges, departmental
honors and divisional honors.

For almost ten years Duke University has used the departmental honor system much as it is at present found at
Davidson. In each department, honors are given separately. In the divisional system, an honor student takes work in three departments,
all of which cooperate together. After the speakers finished their talks, President Brown threw open the meeting for questions and
general discussion.

Sigma Phi Epsilon
The pledge group entertained the pledges of Kappa Delta at Queens at a party Saturday night. Those present were: Dot
Muse, Jimmie Wagner, Ruth Hoggard, Jg Rankin, Beckie Cooke, Betty Purser, Louise Faircloth, Betty Fayssoux, Eloise Moore, Madeline Hurt, Martha
Alexander, Mary Elizabeth Steves, Kittie Graham, Jane Wiley, Virginia Spoon, Ann Pease, Margaret Montgomery, Barbara Shatzer, Jane Ellen Taylor, Emily
Ferguson, and Georgia Hurt, all students at Queens, and Mary Virginia Buckley and Mary Whitmore of Charlotte. Dr. and Mrs.
Gwynn and Miss Margaret Van Devanter were chaperones. Alumni Avery Patton and Phifer Erwin were also present.

SERVICE WITH INDIVIDUAL ATTENTION NORTON’S BARBER SHOP

LIGHTING FIXTURES ELECTRICAL APPLIANCES GROCERIES M. H. GOODRUM & CO. Zenith and RCA Radios

FOOTBALL MANY UPSETS
Santa Clara Is Country’s Only Major Undefeated, Untied Team

OTHERS FALL BY WAY
Georgia Bulldogs Tie Mighty Fordham Team, 7-7

Upsets, upsets, upsets from every corner of these United States. Only one major undefeated untied team in the country —
Santa Clara. In the South, things were rather quiet; North Carolina tumbled South Carolina as expected, Georgia Tech, Tulane, and
Auburn won; but things were not quiet at Rose Hill where a southern team played. Georgia's battered Bulldogs rose to
the heights and tied the hitherto undefeated Fordham team, 7-7. “From Rose Hill to Rose Bowl,” became just another discarded
slogan when Georgia's “seven mules” outplayed and outrushed that supposedly invincible Fordham forward wall.

After taking the nation’s greatest team, Minnesota to the cleaners, Northwestern bowed to the superior all-round playing of the Irish
from Notre Dame, 26-6. From the onset of the game until the final whistle blew, Northwestern didn't have a chance.
Another mid-western team dropped from the ranks of the undefeated list when little Duquesne the giant-killer, toppled Marquette, 13-0. The
Mid-West salvaged some of its pride when Iowa trounced Temple, 25-0. Minnesota rolled over Wisconsin, Ohio State beat Michigan, while
Indiana and Purdue battled to a 20-20 tie.

It will be a long time before Yale forgets Larry Kelly, their All-American end. Combining with Clint Frank, this amazing
captain duplicated his feats of previous Saturdays and led his team to a 14-13 victory over Harvard's Crimson. Dartmouth and
Princeton battled to a 13-13 tie in a furiously-fought contest. Penn State dropped Bucknell, 14-0, while Army, Colgate, and Villanova
won as expected, to conclude the major eastern games for last Saturday.

In the West, California won with ease over Stanford, 20-0, while Oregon State was too strong for Oregon and won
18-0, in the only major games of the week. In the Southwest, where anything can happen, several major games were
run off. In the two biggest encounters “Slingin’ Sammy” Baugh led Texas Christian to a 13-0 win over Rice, while
Baylor nosed out S. M. U., 13-7.

DR. EDWIN MIMS WILL (Continued from Page 1)
Besides editing several literary works, Dr. Mims served as joint editor of the South Atlantic Quarterly. His three books are
The Life of Sidney Lanier, The Advancing South, and Adventurous America.

Some years ago at the University of Notre Dame, quarterbacks used to whip their Irish elevens into formation by yelling
signals in Italian or Polish. Now football teams, almost universally, use the old fashioned English numbers. But Tom Conley, coach
at John Carroll University, has a new system whereby the names of foods and pastries, especially Italian pastries, are substituted
for numbers.

In the divisional system, each department gives honors separately. In the divisional honor system, an honor student takes work in
three departments, all of which cooperate together. After the speakers finished their talks, President Brown threw open the meeting for
questions and general discussion.

DAVIDSON THEATER REEL DOPE
Wed. Nov. 25
Without Orders—
Pictured high in the clouds, and starring Sally Eilers, Robert Armstrong, Frances Sage, Charley Grapewin, and Virlon Haworth, this one
is a good pass-the-time picture.

Thurs.-Fri. Nov. 26-27
Reunion—
Those darling Dionne Quintuplets, Yvonne, Cecile, Marie, Annette, Emelie, are here again. The dramatic homecoming of the Country Doctor's 3,000
grownup “Babies.” Jean Hersholt is the unforgettable country doctor, well supported by Rochelle Hudson and Helen Vinson.

Sat. Nov. 28
Rhythm on the Range—
See this for Bing Crosby's singing and the introduction of Martha Raye, a new comedienne, whose antics all but steal
the show. It's about an heiress who gets into mix-ups with a cowboy. Swing music, too.

Mon.-Tues. Nov. 30-Dec. 1
Go West Young Man—
Has Mae West, screen star, on a personal appearance tour in the role of a movie star with her press-agent-manager,
Warren William. Forced to stop at a farmhouse, she goes romantic over Randolph Scott. Another Mae West picture.

DR. SHEWMAKE GIVES SPEECH
Dr. E. W. Shewmake was the speaker at the ministerial meeting held Tuesday at 3 o'clock in the Chambers building.
This ministerial meeting is...Held twice a month, and conducted by different speakers, the meeting is a regular event. At the
last meeting, Dr. F. Hood talked about the service provided at every meeting. Dr. Arbuckle of “Chemistry Man” will be
the speaker at the next meeting. Dr. Shewmake’s address was on the subject, “English Minister,” which was divided into three
parts: language, composition, and literature.

Under the heading of language, Dr. Shewmake discussed the special points in English usage, giving particular attention to dialectical differences.
Under composition, he addressed the formal and informal manners of expression, with suggestions on the best methods for making public
discourses interesting. Under literature, Dr. Shewmake lectured on the importance of the best secular literature to illustrate and enforce great
moral and spiritual truths, using expressions from famous poets and prose writers.

Prof. J. C. Pfohl will give the second regular organ concert here next Sunday afternoon at 4:30 in Chambers Auditorium.
These concerts, arranged after several requests from different persons, will be held every other Sunday afternoon. Mr. Thane McDonald, a
new member of the Department of Music, gave the first concert on Sunday, November 15. It was well received, and
it is hoped that students and citizens will continue to take an interest in these recitals. The first program lasted
approximately thirty minutes, and all future programs are expected to be thirty to thirty-five minutes long.

MOIRE ROBES $4.95
Slippers to Match $1.15
National Shirt Shops
Tryon & Trade Sts.
On the Square
—Open Saturday Nights—

LIBRARY GAINS BOOKS ON TECHNICAL TOPICS
Buys Books on Philosophy, Music, Astronomy, and Greek
ADD FIVE NEW VOLUMES
Interesting Works on Cosmic Rays Purchased

Among the recent acquisitions of the library are a number of technical books on Philosophy, Music, Astronomy, and the Classics.
Some of these have been reviewed before. Of interest to budding physicists are "Stars and Telescopes" by Stokley, and "Cosmic
Rays Thus Far" by Lemon. Harlow Shapley of the Harvard College Observatory says of the first book, “up-to-date, comprehensive, and
clear, with an appropriate balance between fundamentals and new developments.” It is the complete modern guide to the heavens. Dr.
A. H. Compton, the famous professor of Physics at the University of Chicago, who has written many books on technical
subjects that are as fascinating to read as any literature, says, “Professor Lemon has traced with admirable clarity the history
of their discovery and the attempts that have been made to understand them. He has been following the growth of
their study for many years and tells a story that stands out even in this day of rapid development as
a fascinating example of horizons widening within the growth of knowledge.”

A number of the Witmark (Music) Educational Publications have been purchased this fall. "Practical Musical Criticism" by Oscar Thompson should
be of interest to the musically-minded. While the volume is essentially a manual for would-be music critics, it is recommended
to concert artists and concert-goers. C. E. M. Joad’s "Guide to Philosophy" has as its primary object a comprehensive survey
of the subject for those who have no previous acquaintance with it. The book clarifies in non-technical language the answers
given by philosophers to questions about which there must always be the most hotly-contested disputes. He begins with Plato and
leads right up to the thought of Soviet Russia, the Philosophy of Dialectical Materialism. For the Greek student, we have
"Greek Lyric Poetry" by Bowra, which is a comprehensive study of Greek lyric poetry from Aleman to Simonides in the
seventh and sixth centuries B.C. A full account is taken of recent researches and discoveries, and new views are advanced.

SNORES WHILE FIRE ROARS
Neither fire nor water could chase two Columbia University law classes from the building. In true “show must go on”
spirit, the classes continued until they could be dismissed by a decision of a higher court. While firemen and volunteers
were trying to check the blaze, a Rip Van Winkle of one of the classes, who had found solace in
“snore-dom” before the fire broke out, was roused after much shaking and prodding from the smoke-filled room.

ON THE STAGE
2:30—4:45—7:25—9:45
International Fantasies
8—All Star Acts—8
18—European Stars—18

On the Screen
“DOWN TO THE SEA”
With Patricia Ellis and Mickey Rooney

HOLIDAY PRICES
Thanksgiving All Seats 35c

MON.-TUES.
TOM BROWN
FRANCES DRAKE
SIR GUY STANDING
—in—
“I'D GIVE MY LIFE”

TENNEY WINS FROSH TENNIS TOURNAMENT
Locke Hunter Is Defeated in Finals After Grueling Match

Rea Tenney, displaying excellent tennis form, captured the title in the annual fall tennis tournament of the freshman class this
week, winning a thrilling match from Laughlin Hunter, the little Alabaman who has attracted much attention with his Bitsy Grant
style of play. Earlier in the week, Tenney outclassed Ezell, 6-2, 7-5, to win his way into the final round,
while Hunter took a two-set victory from Ficklen, 6-2, 8-6. Tenney, using a tantalizing chop stroke as his main weapon,
took the first set at 6-2, although he had to fight much harder than the score indicates. Hunter came back
in the second set to push the Atlanta star much harder, but Tenney managed to complete his victory of the
best two out of three sets by winning 8-6. Hunter, in spite of his size, galloped all over the court,
always returning seemingly impossible shots. This brilliant retrieving and Hunter’s consistency kept the match in the fire until the last
point was won. The finalists, who will probably be the mainstays of the freshman tennis team next spring, “played unusually
well for freshmen,” said Howard Covington, tennis manager. Members of the team will be chosen after the spring tournament.

Service of Sacred Music Is Given Sunday Evening
Music Provided By Orchestra, Glee Club, Quartets, and Soloists
A. B. McCLURE PRESIDES
Dr. J. M. Walker Is Minister For Next Week

Sacred music by the glee club, the orchestra, the quartet, and the freshman quartet, and soloists composed the program of
the college vesper service Sunday evening, November 22. Rev. A. B. McClure presided. Rheinberger’s “Vision” was the organ prelude. Rev.
Mr. McClure gave the call to worship, the glee club assisting with a musical background, “Bless the Lord, O My
Soul,” by Ippolitow-Ivanov. The congregation sang, “Holy, Holy, Holy,” and then Mr. McClure gave the invocation. After that, there was
Bach's chorale, “Jesus, Joy of Man's Desiring,” in which the glee club participated with Warren Ludlum on the flute and
Mr. Thane MacDonald at the piano. The scripture reading, by the minister, was from Psalm 147. After Stenson’s “The Prayer
Perfect” by the quartet, the offerings, which went to the Jubilee Committee for Foreign Missions of the Southern Presbyterian Church,
were taken. The offertory was “Intermezzo” from L'Arlesienne Suite by Bizet, presented by the orchestra. The glee club sang the
offertory response, “All Things Come of Thee, O Lord.” A double quartet, composed of the regular quartet—Paul Hudson, Howard Covington,
Charles Ramseur, and John D. Members—and the freshman quartet—Stuart Oglesby, William Laws, and Harp Beall—presented “Dear Land of Home” from
Finlandia by Sibelius. Brahms’ “Meditation” was then played by the orchestra. Miss Norman Shepard, soprano, sang “The Lord Is My
Shepherd” by Verdi. The congregation sang “Guide Me, O Thou Great Jehovah” by Avery. After the congregation had sung, there
were the closing prayer and the choral amen.

Dr. T. W. Lingle Joins Grandfathers’ Club
Dr. T. W. Lingle of the Davidson College faculty is the proud grandfather of a son born to Prof. and
Mrs. R. C. Garth in New York City on November 12. Prof. Garth is a Davidson alumnus, having graduated with
the class of 1919, and for several years he has been the Secretary of the New York Chapter of the
Alumni Association. Mrs. Garth is the daughter of Dr. Lingle.

“D” CLUB GIVES DINNER
Continued from page 1
Several special guests were invited to attend the banquet, and a special effort was made to have all the Wildcat
coaches present. Several alumni were also invited to attend the banquet.

Five smart ways to wear STETSON’S “Playboy” $5.00
STETSON-GRAM: (style-flash!)
FIRST SPONSORED AT THE SMART RESORTS, THIS STETSON “AIR-LIGHT” IS A GROWING FAVORITE FOR SPORTS AND INFORMAL OCCASIONS. SMART, LIGHT,
COMFORTABLE, AND EASILY PACKED, EVERY MAN SHOULD OWN ONE. STETSON “SPORT-LITE” $6.00; ROYAL “AIR-LIGHT” $10.00.
Men’s Shop Street Floor
