WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 1936 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Three

The party given at Queens was the main event last Friday night. Nearly all of the fraternities were well represented
at this gala event. Most of the fraternity men stayed over in Charlotte after the game, several of them being
seen at the Carolina Theater Saturday night.

DUNBAR TAKES PICTURES HERE TUESDAY
Nine Fraternity Group Pictures Taken on Monday and Tuesday
FEW RETAKES REQUIRED
Football Team’s Pictures Are Among Those Taken

Mr. M. F. Dunbar, of Dunbar and Daniel in Raleigh, finished taking the pictures for the Annual this week, leaving
Tuesday night. When he was here before, most of the boys had theirs made; but for those who hadn’t, appointments
were arranged on Monday and Tuesday. There were forty-eight in this number, and also a few re-sittings were required for
those who refused to accept the first.

On Monday afternoon the following fraternities were photographed: Beta Theta Pi, Phi Gamma Delta, Sigma Alpha Epsilon, Pi Kappa Alpha,
and Pi Kappa Phi; and Tuesday the others: Kappa Alpha, Kappa Sigma, Phi Delta Theta, and Sigma Phi Epsilon. These
groups were shot at the north end of Chambers building on the steps. The time and sun and space elements
caused the decision to take them there rather than at the fraternity houses.

The photographer also took pictures of the Scabbard and Blade, and the freshman and varsity football teams, and their managers.
The varsity players were snapped individually as well as collectively.

Part of the art work for the Annual has already been completed, and it is being done in a different
and revolutionary way. In this all-important Centennial year, new schemes and methods are being introduced to improve the publication.

Andrews Gives Talk

At a meeting of the local chapter of Sigma Pi Sigma on last Monday night, John Andrews gave a talk
on the origin of mathematics. This proved quite interesting and helpful to the other members of the chapter. Following Andrews’
talk, Professor W. N. Mebane of the Davidson mathematics department gave an educational discourse on some oddities of mathematics. He
brought out many points of interest and his speech was greatly enjoyed by those present.

Suggestions were made during the course of the meeting for a speaker to replace Dr. Ralph Graves of Duke University,
who was unable to accept an invitation from the fraternity to give a lecture here on Founders Day. As yet,
no announcement has been made as to who will take his place.

VAN NESS
213 N. Tryon
PHOTOGRAPHIC SUPPLIES AND CAMERAS

Beta Theta Pi
Julian Squires spent the weekend in Rock Hill, S. C. Wilbur Robinson visited his parents in Matthews. Johnny Horton tried
to get to China Grove but had to be content with Mooresville. A feed was held Sunday night and it
was given.

Pi Kappa Alpha
Walt Dickson went to his home in Anderson, S. C., after the game. Pledge Edwards made a dissertation on “Animated
Prognostications.”

Kappa Alpha
Sob Abell went to Chester, S.C. Bill Preyer and Charlie Hines went to the Duke-Carolina game Sunday. Horace Lutz whipped
down to Chapel Hill and hasn’t been heard from since. Quite a few of the boys went to the Carolina
Theater after the game.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon
Bailey Williams visited his home in Clinton, S.C. Ed Armfield visited in Asheboro after the game. Perry Sloan visited John
Irwin at his home in Charlotte. Fryfogle wrote six letters to his girl last week—it seems that this happens every
week. A feed was given Sunday night with the members of the coaching staff as guests.

Kappa Sigma
Jim Dickson is sick in the college infirmary. George Norfleet attended the Duke-Carolina game. Higgin’s father from Richmond, Va. visited
the chapter over the weekend. Carl Carlson and Raymond Pittman went to Greensboro after the game.

Pi Kappa Phi
Pledge John Rackley went to his home in West Jefferson. Bidwell Ivey went to Rock Hill. “Tiger” Terry started to
China Grove but ended up in Mooresville. Tom Corbin took the Dutchess to the Carolina Saturday night. “Salty” Peters was
unofficially recognized as the handsomest man at Queens Friday night.

Phi Gamma Delta
George Jones visited his home in Greensboro. Pledge Dan Gilliam spent the weekend in Charlotte. Most of the chapter took
in the party Friday night. Mr. Brothers, section chief of the local chapter, visited Delta Kappa for several days last
week. Willemina Monroe of the Fiji Islands will attend Sophomore weekend.

Phi Delta Theta
Pete McKnight, Dennis Myers, Billy Battle Crooks, Howard Covington, and Tom Breedon were the only ones who went astray Friday
night. Jim Westall took in the Duke-Carolina game. Albert Myers went to Gastonia. The weekly feed was held.

Sigma Phi Epsilon
Pledge Dickson went to Greensboro. Miss Mary Willis, of Agnes Scott, visited Jeff Moore over the weekend. Butch Harper had
a date with Emily ... (anyway she was the daughter of the President of Centre). Bob Doty and Walt Heilman
went to their homes in Tennessee. John Doty, Philip Friberg, Dosey Summerville, and Lilly White visited Winthrop. “Tiger” Jim is
recuperating after running into a closed door at the game.

At the Bar—
He: How many drinks does it take to make you dizzy?
She: Five, and don't call me “Dizzy.”

White Drug Store
Davidson, N. C.
100% BEHIND THE STUDENT BODY
“DAVIDSON’S OLDEST AND BEST”

QUEENS - CHICORA BEAUTIES

Pictured above are six of the fourteen lovely Queens-Chicora College students who were sponsors at the Davidson-Centre game Saturday. The
Davidson girls carried chrysanthemums tied with red and black ribbon, while the sponsors for Centre had flowers with yellow ribbon.
They are, from left to right, top row: Misses Frances Smith, Charlotte; Zoe Strawn, Charlotte; and Lillian Smith, Greer, S.
C.; Bottom row: Misses Dot Muse, Mountain City, Tenn.; Mary Moore, Clinton, S. C.; and Mary Willis, Clinton, S. C.

Sponsors Add Color to Centre Game; Take Places of Honor After Parade

To add color to an already colorful game with Centre last Saturday, a delegation of Davidson college students attended a
meeting of the Presbyterian Synods.

DR. FRAZER HOOD TO MAKE LECTURE TOURS
Lingle Speaks To Presbyterian Synods

Recently Dr. W. L. Lingle journeyed to Lexington, Ky., where he addressed the Presbyterian Synod of Kentucky which was meeting
to celebrate the 75th anniversary of the founding of The Presbyterian Church in the United States. From Lexington, Dr. Lingle
then went to Atlanta, Ga., to speak to the Presbyterian Synod of Georgia.

It has been announced that Dr. Frazer Hood of the Psychology Department will make several trips and lecture in the
near future. On Thursday night, November 19, he will go to Concord as a guest of the men of McKinnon
Presbyterian Church at an annual supper. This dinneris to be Church.” Presbyterian to their respective sideline seats. Johnson C. Smith
College and a t ch. This address was delivered on the invitation of the synod. Among those who served as
sponsors were: Miss Becky Cooke, Andrews, S.C.; Miss Betty Fayssoux, the one held in Charlotte yesterday to the celebration of
the Jubilee Year. Emily Fer- are scheduled for the latter part of this week in North Carolina towns. They will
be held at Raleigh, on Thursday; Greensboro, Friday; and at Flora Macdonald College in Red Springs on Sunday. Dr. Smith
will address these meetings also. Colleges invited to send delegates (Continued on Page 6).

The fifteenth annual meeting of the Southern Association of Colleges for Women will be held in the Hotel John Marshall,
Richmond, Va., on Tuesday, December 2. Dr. Hood will attend this meeting and deliver an address. The whole program of
the Association is built around two ideas: namely, an integrated curriculum and an integrated student. Dr. Hood will speak on
the integrated student, with special emphasis on the question concerning the extent to which religion can be made an integral
part of a student’s personality. The integration means the harmonious development of a person’s powers, physical, mental, and social. The
subject of his address will be: “The Place of Religion in Producing Integrated Personalities.” (Continued on Page 6).

LOVE, the quest, marriage, the conquest, divorce, the inquest of the fable—One time there was a little girl who didn't
like to say words like “pit” and “pant.” On seeing a dog running down the street she said; “O look
how that saliva dog trousers!” This same girl was so modest she wouldn't even do improper fractions.

“ROSE BOWL” TOM BROWN ELEANOR WHITNEY Buster Crabbe Benny Baker

EXPERT WORKMANSHIP HIGHEST QUALITY BUFF SHOE SHOP HALFSOLES HEELS O.C. BUFF, Prop. 117 Garland Court Charlotte, N.C.

“INTERNATIONAL FANTASIES”

Betty Fayssoux, Winston-Salem; and Eloise COLLECTION ON DISPLAY HERE Prof. Henry Lilly Purchases Rare Italian, Spanish and Latin Copies ARE
BOUND IN VELLUM Copy-Book Contains Name of Peter Stuart Ney

A collection of old and rare books is now on display in the library. These books date from the seventeenth,
eighteenth, and nineteenth centuries, and are from the library of the Hospicio de San Ildefonso de Augustinos de Recoletos, an
old pilgrimage monastery of Spanish monks at Rome. They were purchased by Professor H. T. Lilly at public sale, and
have been placed on exhibition in the library by him. The books are bound in vellum, and are in Italian,
Spanish, or Latin. Most of them concern the Roman Catholic Church; Defense of the Church, Rules of the Church, Litany
of the Church, the Catechism, attacks on heresies. Published in Venice, Florence, or Naples, they are printed, as are all
Catholic books, Con licenza de Superiore. Two of the more recent, dated about 1792, have etched title-pages. The oldest is
dated about 1658. On display also is a mathematics copy-book used in the family of Mrs. Frazer Hood. It is
interesting in itself, but what adds further interest for Davidson is the autograph, in one corner, of Peter Stuart Ney,
said by some to be the great Marshal of France, who tutored the boys in this family.

STUDENT VOLUNTEERS HEAR TWO SPEAKERS Purpose to Publicize Missions

LIBRARY NOW HAS NEW POPULAR WORKS ON NUMEROUS TOPICS Books Are on Physics, Psychology, Language, Poetry, and Biography CRITICS ENDORSE
BOOKS

Latest Volumes of Prominent Authors Bought

“From Galileo to Cosmic Rays” is the title of another of the scientific works included among the library’s new acquisitions.
“The Anatomy of Personality,” and “The American Language” are two other of the new books. “From Galileo to Cosmic Rays,”
Harvey Brace Lemon's book, is one of a new series of texts put out by the University of Chicago in
a special plan they have recently inaugurated. Of it a freshman remarked: "This is physics with a smile." His professor
says: “It is the answer to a fervent prayer.” Haggard and Fry, the authors of “The Anatomy of Personality,” are
two psychologists who have written much concerning psychological mechanisms. In their present volume, they discuss the man behind each, explaining,
not why people have complexes and breakdowns, but what sort of people have them. They make it possible for everyone
to read the personality of his neighbor. H. L. Mencken's great Modern Classic, “The American Language,” is in its fourth
edition, corrected, revised, and enlarged. It is almost a different book. Thoroughly scientific, it is at the same time an
extremely diverting piece of reading, full of odd stuff to be found nowhere else. Even Mencken's many enthusiastic enemies have
acclaimed this as definitive. The article, “What Is Slang” in the October Reader's Digest was quoted from this work. “A
Further Range” is Robert Frost's latest volume of poems. Of this volume, Herschel Brickell of the New York Post says:
“Deep wisdom and subtle humor... peculiar and individual beauty to be found nowhere else in English poetry.” It is a
recent selection of the Book-of-the-Month Club. Two recent biographies are “James Watt, Craftsman and Engineer,” by H.W. Dickinson, and “Brandeis;
the Personal History of an American Ideal,” by Alfred Lief. The first book shows Watt not only as the great
figure in the early development of the use of steam power, but as a craftsman. The second book is the
life history of Brandeis, a man whose name has come to stand for the principles of liberal Democracy; a man
who has worked for twenty years as a member of the Supreme Court with a conviction that the Constitution is
a living charter to be used in meeting the modern needs of a faster-paced world.

It used to be a common saying, "Men's styles never change.” And people were very nearly right. Suits two and
three years old looked almost identical to one bought the month before. All that's changed now! There's a faster fashion
tempo. Each season sees noticeable important style details which stamp a suit or coat as this season’s model—and nothing else!
And never was that swifter style pace better demonstrated than in our Hart Schaffner & Marx showing for Fall, 1936.
In pattern, fabric, color, model, every suit and topcoat in this great Hart Schaffner & Marx collection of ours unmistakably
says—"Fall, 1936.” J O JONES INC 210 So. Tryon
