THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 29, 1936

GOLF AND TRACK TEAMS TO COMPETE IN STATE MEETS

SPORTS AFIELD

INTRA-MURAL SPORTS SWING INTO FULL SPEED IN EFFORT TO FINISH

By LAMONT BROWN

To return once again to this story where two seasons have ended, I find myself reflecting on the past. Dr. Roberts, Moose River, and Ole Sports seem to be the topics of conversation. The Davidson team seemed to be at its best when it was about the team spirit. Davidson has always been a fighting team, and it has always been a team that never gives up. There was Johnny Mackrell, who consistently furnished inspiration for first-hand comments. On numerous occasions, Paul shone like a meteor in the evening. No less frequently, it was Jim Morgan, “Flip” Cathey, “Boody” Wingfield, Dick Johnson, or Coley Windham, who made the mighty Tar Heels look as if they belonged in a prep school league or caused the highly touted Devils from Duke to feel as if their own fork had been thrust down their throat.

These are only a few of the “rescuers” who have made the life of sports at Davidson during recent years lively and have made me realize that the Wildcats still hold a powerful berth in the athletic sun. The Wildcats’ lair is full of interest. There is a great deal there for Davidson to be proud of, and standing upon the threshold of a new era, there looms before all of her supporters an even more interesting array of programs and individual stars to be watched and admired. Norman Shepherd is taking the place held by the popular and successful Captain Norton Pritchett, who over the years moved to the University of Virginia. Davidson is now a member of the Southern Conference, a place it has long deserved. These two items, in accompaniment with the superb and unperishing Wildcat spirit, should give an impetus from the very start that will carry Wildcat glory to far-flung heights and make her sons proudly proclaim their part in Davidson's challenging heritage.

Don't get the college sports writers’ complex, but more appropriately take on the attitude of the batter who had just gone down swinging and returned to the bench with a consoling “anyway, I got my three swings.”

VERY SIMPLE...

A sweet young thing in distress came in and said: “I've broken my glasses. Do I have to be examined all over again?” “No,” said the oculist, “just your eyes.”

The average grades of students at Worcester Tech, Worcester, Mass., have risen steadily for nine years.

TO DAVIDSON BY A NOSE

Wildcats in Double-Header Victory

CAROLINA WINS BY 3 TO 2

Yearwood, Bankhead, and Clark Star For Wildcats

Last week, the baseball game against Wake Forest was played on Monday. The Wildcats lost by 15-0. Wake Forest's fielding was the feature of the series. The Deacons garnered three triples in the first two games.

Davidson vs. Carolina

A determined and fighting Wildcats team took the lead against Carolina. The first man up, Netted, then scampered around the Carolina team. When Davidson scored over another run, Carolina scored a long hit. It appeared that the game was on ice, but things went wrong in the seventh inning. Austin, the second Carolina player, walked, stole, and went home on a piece of “head work.” Yearwood threw to the bag. The ball hit Austin’s head and rolled to the outfield while he raced for home plate. Davidson made a desperate attempt to get back those lost runs in the ninth inning. Dixon led off with a hot liner to right field that would have been a home run if it had been a few feet higher. The game ended with the tying and winning runs on first and second.

If there is any distinguishing feature of the bang-up playing of the Davidson nine, it was the superb catching of the outfield. Clark, Lafferty, and Dickson got under balls time and time again that looked like certain hits. Their play was responsible to a great degree that there were no hits longer than singles all afternoon. Wright and Herman Yearwood staged the best pitching duel seen on the local diamond this year. Yearwood clearly demonstrated that he could pitch with the best in the Big Five. Davidson was due for a win and only missed getting in the victory column by a slip-up in the best game played here this season.

John Lee Fails To Win Place At Penn Relays

John N. Lee represented Davidson at the Penn Relays in Philadelphia last week. Lee was the only entry from the college, and he competed in the pole vault. Although Lee did not place in the event, he ranked high among the contestants. The winning height was 13 feet 4 inches, and Lee jumped to 12 feet. The prevailing wind did much to hinder his work. In 1933, Cochrane was sent to the Relays in the hurdles. He placed in the low hurdles. Ever so often, outstanding track stars are sent. This season, Lee has continually jumped well. Three times he has bettered his records, and the college mark now stands at 12 feet 7 3-4 inches.

BIG FIVE TEAMS

Wake Forest Nine Subdues

CAT NETMEN DEFEAT STATE, LOSE TO DUKE

Carlyle Lewis Is Eliminated in Quarter-Finals of State Tournament

On Monday of last week, the Wildcat tennis team, composed of Lewis, Kenney, Sell, Carlson, Frampton, and Hornbeck, left for their annual trip through the northern part of the state. That afternoon, they spanked State by a 6-2 score. Lewis, Kenney, Carlson, and Bell all won their singles matches while Lewis-Bell and Frampton-Kenney won in doubles. The third doubles match was called on account of darkness. Lewis (D) beat Rem 6-4, 8-6. Kenney (D) beat Brown 6-4, 6-3. Bell (D) beat Dulin 6-4, 11-9. Carlson (D) beat Smith 6-1, 10-8. Nading (S) beat Frampton 6-3, 6-4. Finson (S) beat Hornbeck 8-6, 10-8. Lewis-Bell (D) beat Rem-Brown 6-1, 6-3. Kenney-Frampton (D) beat Crews-Nading 6-3, 3-6, 6-3.

Next, the Cats met the Blue Devils and lost, 8-1, in a series of bitterly-fought matches. Captain Lewis made Davidson's only point of the day when he downed Caton, Duke star, 6-2, 6-4. Other scores were as follows: Ashby (DU) beat Kenney 6-1, 6-1; Gill (DU) beat Bell 6-4, 4-6, 6-4; Parsons (DU) beat Carlson 4-6, 6-4, 6-4; Wright (DU) beat Frampton 6-1, 6-0; Kellmeyer (DU) beat Hornbeck 6-4, 9-7; Ashby (DU) beat Lewis-Bell 6-1, 6-3; Kellmeyer-Caton (DU) beat Wright-Hornbeck 6-4, 6-0; Wright-Beach (DU) beat Kenney-Frampton 6-1, 6-4. A match with Carolina for Wednesday was rained out.

This week, the team made a trip to Virginia. The players are ranked slightly differently now. Over the weekend, Barnett won back his position on the team from Hornbeck, and Frampton elevated himself to fourth place at Carlson's expense. Monday, the Cats clashed with the University of Virginia, Tuesday with the Country Club of Virginia, and Wednesday the opponent was Washington and Lee University.

The State Intercollegiate Tournament was held last week, in which Carlyle Lewis and Branston Kenney represented Davidson. Lewis was seeded number four but lost in the quarter-finals, while Kenney, seeded seventh, was beaten in the second round. The title was won by young Archibald Henderson of Chapel Hill.

Kittens Beat Gastonia Nine

Hicks, Hemphill Lead Freshmen to Wins Over Belmont Abbey and Gastonia

Games with Belmont Abbey and Gastonia were won by the Freshman baseball team this week. Monday, the Wildcats defeated Gastonia, 4-1, and Belmont lost 10-3 last Wednesday. All scoring took place during the first three innings of the Gastonia game. Hicks and Dellinger of Gastonia started a pitching battle and kept the last six innings scoreless with frequent strikeouts. Hand and Johnson scored in the first inning on a double by Hemphill. Stewart of Gastonia scored in the second, and Hicks and Steere came in during the third.

The Belmont game was called at the end of the sixth inning due to the continued rain. Pitching from Belmont was rather loose, and Davidson hitters scored frequently. In the fourth and sixth innings, the Wildcats tallied eight out of ten runs. Hicks scored three runs for Davidson, besides doing the outstanding hitting of the day. McCall made two runs, and Steere, Edwards, Hemphill, Befield, and McCulloch scored one each.

“We refused promptly, firmly, and politely two weeks ago.” The University of Virginia will not be represented at Heidelberg, says President John Lloyd Newcomb.

Maryville Trackers Fall Before Davidson Varsity

The Davidson track varsity fell on Richardson Field last Saturday by a score of 83 1-2 to 47 1-2. Competition in the races was close, but Davidson scored heavily in the field events, taking five out of six firsts. Individual showings featured the meet, as four men won two events each. Snedecker of Maryville won the two-mile run in the excellent time of 9:48.60, a record for Maryville and close to the time set last year by Frazier. Snedecker also won the mile in 4:45, beating out Parcell of Davidson. Merchant and Brown finished second and third in the two-mile run.

Wade Barrow won the 220-yard dash in 22.8 with Faison running a close second. The 220-yard low hurdles also went to Barrow with Wicker placing second. The time on the low hurdles was 26.7 seconds. The half-mile and the 440-yard dash were won by Talmage, a Maryville star. His time on the 880-yard run was 2:04.1, and the 440-yard dash was run in 51.9. Gregory and Johnson placed in the 440, and Shuford took third in the half.

Jim Johnson threw the javelin 169 feet 3 inches, winning the event, and Mosely placed second.and Johnson placed first with a distance of 119 feet 8 inches in the discus, and second in the shot put with 38 feet 9 inches. Dick Johnson won the shot put, with Tipton second. Davidson won the pole vault at 11 feet, with Fort tying with Maryville for third. Lee placed second, and Lavender of Faison won the hundred-yard dash in 10.4 seconds, with Dickson placing second. Wicker took the high hurdles in 46.2 seconds, with Park second. The relay, the last track event, was won by Maryville. Dickson jumped 20 feet 4 inches to win the broad jump, with Barrow second. Peabody placed third in the broad jump and third in the high jump. This dual competition was the last for the varsity, and the State meet at Raleigh closes the season.

Wildkittens Winston Wins From Kittens Frosh Netmen Are Downed, 5-2 in Second Tilt With High School

On Friday, April 24, the freshman tennis team lost a hard-fought battle to Winston-Salem High School by the score of 5-4. Rawlings (W) defeated Jones (D) 6-2, 6-0; Croom (W) won over Cloyd (D) 7-5, 8-6; White (D) beat Dickson (W) 6-8, 8-6, 6-2; Hahn (W) conquered Lawson (D) 6-3, 6-4; Sloan (D) beat Shore (W) 6-2, 6-3; Hendrix (W) defeated Marquess (D) 6-3, 6-4. Only one doubles match was played, with Hendrix and Shore (W) winning over Marquess and Lawson (D) 6-4, 2-6, 6-4. Winston forfeited two doubles matches for two of the Davidson scores. The match with the Blue Ridge School for Boys on Saturday, April 25, was canceled because of the quarantine placed on that school. The tennis team will play host to Charlotte High School on Tuesday, April 28. The freshmen have won one match with Presbyterian Junior College 7-0 but have lost the other two matches played against Winston-Salem, the first by a score of 6-0.

Large Cheating Circle Exposed At California

(Associated Collegiate Press) Berkeley, Cal—(ACP)—Thirteen men, including three varsity football players and three members of the freshman basketball team, were found guilty of cheating in an economics examination last week as the University of California student affairs committee closed the books on one of the largest cases of mass cheating in the school’s history. In addition to the men, five women were found guilty. Most of the offenders were given warnings and curtailed privileges, with only one of the athletes being barred from future competition. One sophomore was suspended from the university when, following the disclosure of the mass cheating, he wrote to an instructor declaring that he had never cheated in an examination, although previously suspected. An investigation disclosed his participation. Compared to the “ring” discovered earlier in the year at the University of North Carolina, the California group was small. North Carolina expelled a total of 97 students following the expose of an examination clearing house operated by students and guaranteeing to supply advance exam questions for every course in the university but one.

CHARLOTTE, N. C. FAUL AND CRYMES, INC. SPORTING GOODS 415 SOUTH TRYON ST.

Defeat P. C. Walker and Abbot Lead Frosh Runner to 72-52 Victory

The Wildkitten track team defeated the Presbyterian College freshmen here last Saturday by a score of 72-52. Out of fourteen events, Davidson won eight first places, Presbyterian frosh won five, and there was one tie. Walker and Abbott led the scoring for Davidson, each taking two firsts. Walker won the mile run in 4:58 and the two-mile run in 10:48.1. In the mile, Huntley of Presbyterian College nosed out Woodward for second place. In the two-mile run, Woodward placed second, and Bonner of Presbyterian came in third. Walker lapped the Presbyterian runners as he finished the longer race. In the 440-yard dash, Abbott led with 55.3. Hiers of Presbyterian came second, and Lutz third. Abbott also won the 880-yard run with a time of 2:12.5, while Atkinson of Presbyterian came second, and Patterson third. It was the first time Abbott had run the half-mile this season, as it was Walker's first two-mile run. The hundred-yard dash and the 220 were both won by a Presbyterian star, Dennard, although Davidson won second in both events. In the hundred-yard dash and the 220, Harrison ran second. The time on the century was 10.4 seconds, and the 220-yard dash was run in 23.3. The hurdles were taken by Presbyterian College runners, but Harrison and Tice placed second and third in the 220-yard lows, and Friberg finished third in the 120 high hurdles. The pole vault was tied for first between Sample, C. W. of Davidson, and McSween of Presbyterian. Both made the height of 10 feet 6 inches. The high jump went to Davidson as Hipp jumped 5 feet 2 inches, and Graves came second. The broad jump was won by Dennard of Presbyterian, at 19 feet 11 1/2 inches. Boyd was close behind and scored for third. Warden of Davidson took the shot with a heave better than the varsity distance in a meet with Maryville the same day. He put the shot 38 feet 10 1/2 inches, and Miller took third for the Wildkittens. Field events helped the Davidson score further as Johnson won the javelin with 161 feet 2 1/2 inches, with Boyd coming third. In the discus, all places were taken by Davidson as McClellan won with a distance of 110 feet 10 inches. The meet with Presbyterian College was the fourth for the Wildkittens, and their third victory. V. P. I. Frosh won with a close margin two weeks ago. Wofford, the only remaining dual meet, was scheduled for Tuesday of this week. Several freshmen from the squad will compete in the State meet Saturday.

Vicks Medicated Cough Drops Medicated with ingredients of Vicks VapoRub... Soothe irritated throats.

Juniors Beat Seniors in Baseball; Seniors, Juniors Win In Tennis

Last Monday afternoon, a rejuvenated freshman softball team threw a scare into the ranks of the then undefeated sophomores, beating them 14-12. The sophomores, however, continued to hold their lead in the league. That same evening, the juniors turned the tables upon their former conquerors, the seniors, winning 8-3. They also stepped into the lead, this time in the tennis competition, routing the sophomores, four matches to one. Last week’s softball games saw the sophomores almost cinching the league victory. On Monday, they beat the seniors, 18-9; Tuesday, they almost demolished the hopes of the freshmen by running up 34 tallies, the frosh accounting for only 4; and Thursday, they nosed out the juniors in a ten-inning struggle, finally pushing over one run to win 13-12. The juniors fared rather worse: they lost to both the seniors and the sophomores. The freshmen lost to everyone until Monday of this week when they showed real promise for the remaining part of the competition. This week’s games were as follows: Tuesday, freshmen vs. juniors and sophomores vs. seniors; Wednesday, sophomores vs. juniors. The only interclass tennis match of last week saw the freshmen completely outclassed, as they went down 4-0 before the seniors. Led by Jim Cothran, the seniors had little trouble with the inexperienced frosh. In the sophomore-junior match, only one singles match, that of Kiesewetter, was won by the sophomores. A second doubles match was called off because of the insurmountable lead of the juniors. More tennis will be played this week, and all the baseball will be completed, weather permitting, but inter-class golf will be postponed until next week, probably.

Hardware—Dry Goods Radios and Radio Supplies M. H. GOODRUM & CO.

Before BOWERY BALL Visit OVERCASH Barber Shop It Pays To Look Well

Davidson Theatre WEDNESDAY, APRIL 29 REMEMBER LAST NIGHT Edward Arnold, Constance Cummings, Sally Eilers, Robert Young THURSDAY AND FRIDAY, APRIL 30-MAY 1 MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION Starring Irene Dunne and Robert Young SATURDAY, MAY 2 O’MALLEY OF THE MOUNTED With George O’Brien and Irene Ware MONDAY-TUESDAY, MAY 4-5 CONNECTICUT YANKEE Starring the unforgettable Will Rogers