THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 26, 1936

OPERATIC LAWRENCE TIBBETT IS FRIENDLY; “A REG’LAR FELLER”

Doesn’t Like Motion Picture Production as Much as Musical Drama

TO MAKE PICTURE SOON

Enjoys Tours and Rendering of Concerts Much

“Oh, Mr. Tibbett, you have such a marvelous voice!” “We enjoy your radio programs so much. We all gather around the radio to hear you sing!” “You simply must sing for us, Mr. Tibbett!” “Oh, sweet Mr. Tibbett, you're so marvelous!”

Such comments and many more like ’em were heard backstage after Lawrence Tibbett’s concert in Charlotte last week. How the artist Tibbett could endure the silly chatter of the pudgy dowager autograph hounds is a wonder, patience or no patience! And, by the way, you can forget all derogatory comments you may have heard concerning Lawrence Tibbett. He’s a “reg'lar feller” with a boyishly friendly nature and absolutely no reticence to answering questions. My, how society folks love to be in the presence of a celebrity!

One corpulent music teacher, after introducing all her deah pupils, said to Tibbett, “Oh, Mr. Tibbett, you'd just love to have some of my candy, wouldn't you? All right, I'll send you a box, but remember it's not poisoned, won't you? Oh, you're so sweet!” And another comment: “May I have your autograph, Mr. Crooks?” and the response: “My name is Tibbett, but I'm a good friend of Crooks.” Blushes from the autograph-hound. And so on into the night.

Finally, though, this reporter managed to wedge between two bulging dowagers and shoot a few questions.

“Just where do you think opera stands in the public eye?”

“Opera has been declining, but, at the present, I believe it is on the upgrade. Only when opera is performed in cities of this size will it really be popular.”

“Do you enjoy your moving picture work more than opera?”

“Decidedly not. Motion picture work is tedious. There is no visible audience as in opera, and this makes a great deal of difference. For this reason, radio broadcasting is not as interesting.”

Tibbett then went on to speak of his next picture. “I have already started to work on a new picture—one that Douglas Fairbanks made back in the days of silent pictures. It's ‘The Mark of Zorro’.”

“Do you find it difficult to care for your voice?”

“I have to keep in good physical condition on these tours. I think my voice teacher, Frank La Forge, is the best to be obtained in New York.”

And then in regard to his concert tours: “I enjoy my tours very much—seeing new places, meeting new people. Concerts have to reach a high state of perfection, too, as the artist is almost continually on the stage.”

Three Speak to Phi Group

McQueen, Mullis, and Hornbeck Talk on Literature

The Philanthropic Literary Society heard three speakers discuss the topic: Literature of the Present as Compared with Literature of the Past, at its meeting on Tuesday, February 18. The speakers of the evening were D. A. McQueen, T. D. Mullis, and President George Hornbeck in the order named.

The subject of McQueen's talk was, The Types of Literature of the Present Compared with Those of the Past. Mullis spoke on the forms of literature, and Hornbeck on the subject matter of literature. Each of these talks was about ten minutes long.

In his speech, McQueen, talking of the types of literature, spoke of the seven periods in the development of literature from the days gone by to the present. Mullis then spoke on the various forms of literature which have arisen since time began, and traced their development. He showed how poetry was dominant in the past, how it had risen, and then how today it has declined.

(Continued on Page 6)

‘FLU’ FILLS INFIRMARY AS SIXTY ARE VICTIMS

The register of the college infirmary shows that 60 patients have been treated for flu, colds, and minor throat troubles during the month of February. The infirmary has been rushed so that it was necessary to employ two extra nurses, Mrs. Irving Johnston and Miss Lottie Nixon, to aid Mrs. A. B. Robson in the care of the patients.

Ten new men were admitted for treatment last week, these being: Cage Grewer, Henry Harkey, Wilson McLean, John McQueen, A. M. Smith, Robert Stewart, Watson Street, R. J. Towill, Charles Walters, and Ned Iverson.

Medical Frat Has Meeting

Dr. S. C. Lyon Delivers Second In Series of Addresses on Embryology

The regular meeting of the Pi Delta Alpha honorary fraternity was held last Wednesday night, February 19, at which meeting Dr. S. C. Lyon delivered an address on the subject of embryology. This was the second in the series of addresses delivered by Dr. Lyon on this same subject. Since no courses are offered at Davidson on Embryology, Dr. Lyon has undertaken to conduct discussions on the subject at each of the bi-monthly meetings, and this series will be continued at the coming meetings. President C. G. Smith reported that this was one of the best meetings held this year.

A petition is in the hands of the national organization of this fraternity for national recognition.

“Y” Deputation Speaks Twice

McMullen, Bixler and Newland Go to Glade Valley And Salem

HOME MISSIONS THEME

Stop at Greensboro College While on Trip

Al Bixler, John McMullen, Reid Newland, and Lill Telford made up the Y. M. C. A. deputation which went to Glade Valley and Salem College during the past week-end. John McMullen addressed the vocational guidance section last Saturday night on the topic “Missions as a Profession.” Sunday morning the deputation made talks at Sunday School. The morning church services were conducted by Al Bixler, who told of the missionary work in Brazil, and Reid Newland, who spoke of missions in Korea. Newland also rendered a solo.

Leaving Glade Valley after dinner Sunday, the group came back by Winston-Salem and stopped at Salem College, where McMullen led the Vesper Service, speaking on “The Place of Women in Missions.”

J. H. Ostwalt, member of last year's graduating class, is now teaching English and science at the Home Mission School at Glade Valley.

John McMullen will leave this Thursday to attend the council meeting of the Student Volunteer Movement in New York.a $3 bet, a former University of Minnesota swimming team captain swam 225 feet under water. Developments are expected in the very near future. Pi Delta Alpha is a pre-medical fraternity which was founded at Davidson in 1931. Membership is limited to pre-medical students of the Junior and Senior classes, and is based on grades, interest in the study of medicine, and the amount of pre-medical or science taken. At present, there are about fifteen or sixteen members.

New Officers of Ministerial Band Elected For Semester
Leaders Chosen at Recent Meeting For Activities In Spring
J. SALANGO RE-ELECTED
Group Members Plan More Church Work

The Ministerial Band met Sunday afternoon and elected its officers for the spring semester. James Salango was re-elected to the presidency of the band. T. D. Mullis and W. R. Laws were elected vice president and secretary-treasurer, respectively. A constitutional amendment and proposed revision were discussed. The amendment proposed is to affect the key which the organization now uses. The band has decided to do away with the key entirely as they deem it unadvisable for their band to wear a key. The general revision in the constitution was thought necessary due to the changes which have occurred since it was first drawn up. Mullis was appointed chairman of the program committee for the coming term at the same time. Plans whereby the Ministerial Band could engage in more deputation work in the following months were discussed during the meeting. For the past few months, the group has not been as active in this work as it would like to be, and they intend to go into neighboring communities with deputation assignments. They have solicited the aid of Albert McClure in helping them secure these assignments. The officers were elected at the last meeting of the band and for a week the band has been weighing the merits of the candidates before it cast its vote. The officers of the Ministerial Band have to be elected from the Senior, Junior, and Sophomore Classes, respectively.

CINEMATIC COMMENTS

SATURDAY
Two in the Dark
A very unusual story with Walter Abel as an amnesia victim in a spot over the murder of a theatrical producer. Things look pretty bad for him since Margot Grahame has found him wandering in the dark near the scene of the crime. Wallace Ford is the demon reporter, Leslie Fenton, the unscrupulous playwright, and Allan Hale, the inspector.

MONDAY AND TUESDAY
Wife Vs. Secretary
Another great Harlow and Gable picture with Myrna Loy adding to the entertainment. Jean and Myrna are competitors in this picture for Clark. Jean has her new hair, brown at that. A great picture.

WEDNESDAY
The Prisoner of Shark’s Island
Warner Baxter plays the part of Dr. Mudd who, because he set Wilkes Booth’s leg, is accused of aiding in the assassination of President Lincoln and is sentenced for life in the prison at Fort Jefferson, Florida.

THURSDAY AND FRIDAY
Rose Marie
The picture everybody has been waiting for, Nelson Eddy and Jeanette MacDonald in another great picture. Their duet in “The Indian Love Call” and the stirring song of the mounted police sung by three hundred men led by Nelson Eddy. The best of their pictures.

Beginning in June, Yale engineering graduates will receive bachelor of engineering degrees instead of bachelor of science degrees.

Clarification Pending Constitution Wording
IRC CONVENES AT WINTHROP
Three-Day Conference to Feature Discussion Groups and Addresses

An announcement was made last week by Carleton Chapman concerning the Constitution of the Student Government at Davidson. “Because the Constitution is not as clear as it might be regarding the relation of the Student Council to the Court of Control, a slight change is pending. The Court of Control is elected each year by the Student Council and the actions of the Court are subject at all times to the approval and supervision of the Council. Because the wording of the Constitution covering this point leaves room for doubt, a slight change is advisable. This will in reality be only a clarification and not actually a change.”

WANTED!
Articles from the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace

Presentations
Six states of the Southeast will be represented at this convention. The district includes North Carolina, South Carolina, Tennessee, Georgia, Alabama, and Florida.

QUALITY at LOW COST
M. H. GOODRUM & CO.
HARDWARE DRY GOODS RADIOS

When It’s Done By BUFF That Says Enuf
GULF GAS AND OIL
BUFF SHOE SHOP

Luckies are less acid
Excess of Acidity of Other Popular Brands Over Lucky Strike Cigarettes

The top leaves of all tobacco plants tend to give a definitely harsh, alkaline taste. The bottom leaves tend to acidity in the smoke. It is only the center leaves which approach in nature the most palatable acid-alkaline balance. In LUCKY STRIKE Cigarettes the center leaves are used. LUCKIES ARE LESS ACID! Recent chemical tests show that other popular brands have an excess of acidity over Lucky Strike of from 53% to 100%.

RESULTS VERIFIED BY INDEPENDENT CHEMICAL LABORATORIES AND RESEARCH GROUPS...
“IT’S TOASTED”
Your throat protection against irritation
Copyright 1936, The American Tobacco Company