WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 2, 1936 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Three

RATHER YOUNG

ON MATTERS

By HAROLD SUGG

Embargo, Versailles and Buenos Aires—

There have been two great liberal administrations in the history of the United States government, under the leadership of Thomas
Jefferson and Woodrow Wilson, and another that portends to become a third, that of Franklin D. Roosevelt. Yet for our
purpose, we define a liberal President as a reformer, one who undertakes to make vigorous constructive changes in the existing
order. In the United States, we may term liberal any man or movement that attempts to salvage and protect the
individual against powerful and vested interests. It is a tragedy that the greatest liberal administrations this country has had were
thwarted and their fruits nullified by the pressure of Europe at war. The first terms of Thomas Jefferson and Woodrow
Wilson were distinguished by great constructive measures that promoted prosperity, stability, and were generally conceded to be wholesomely democratic in
effect. It was in their second terms that European wars bulged into the open and threw the administrations terrifically out
of gear. Will Franklin Roosevelt's genius as a practical statesman enable him to preserve the gains made in the past
four years and continue vigorous internal reform and improvement? Does the present Pan-American Peace Conference at Buenos Aires give any
indication that the United States, with the rest of the two continents, will not be gripped by the European War?
Will Roosevelt master the foreign octopus that sucked Jefferson into the Embargo and Wilson into the World War?

Jefferson and Embargo

Every administration was a brilliant success. Under Gallatin, the financial operations of the government were simplified and brought within common
understanding. Through toleration and careful Cabinet picking, the country was welded together in harmony, and precedents of frugality and democracy
were set and followed. Like Wilson, he played the part of an “enlightened nationalist” in the Tripoli fray, the war-scare
with the Spanish government, and in the climactic Louisiana purchase. But by the end of the first year of Jefferson's
second term, 1805, Austerlitz had made Napoleon master on land and Trafalgar had made England supreme on the sea, both
seeking to strangle the other. Neutrality rights were stomped on and the American Flag outraged. Jefferson was forced to Embargo,
and the disastrous counterpart to his successful first administration. The embargo alienated New England, weaned “infant industries” and planted tariff
seeds, starved business and did not bring England and France to capitulate.

Wilson and World War

Hardly any term has been as successfully dynamic as Wilson's first with its successive drives of reform, topped by the
Federal Reserve System. And a patient but firm foreign policy added to far-reaching social reforms. Yet the World War brought
a mammoth swell.

Torch Songstress

HATS .. SHIRTS .. 107 West Trade St.

NEWBERG SHIRT SHOP

Torrance, College Repair Man, Tells of His Work

Says That He Has Seen Real Hazing, and Is Glad It Is Gone

HAS WORKED 30 YEARS

Thinks Davidson Spirit Improves Every Year

“Well now,” said Torrance, a small old man with a white moustache and thatch of hair rapidly thinning with a
pair of gold-rimmed spectacles inches down on his nose, as he sat, leaning on his cane in a chair, “I
came here in 1905 as the college celebrates a century of service to the youth of the South. How much
the oldest of...

GET DATA ON TRADE; TEST PERSONALITIES

Facts on Personality to Be Compared with Those of Sixty Psychologists

METHOD IS ACCURATE

Popularity of Advertised Goods to Be Found

Students who have plenty of spare time and who want to engage in a project much unlike the curriculum of
dry should try a semester of Dr. Frazer Hood’s usual courses.

PSYCHOLOGY CLASSES!

Lingle Contributes Page For “Christian Observer”

Began Columnist Career Writing For “Presbyterian of the South”

HAS ARTICLE EACH WEEK

Gets Letters of Appreciation and Criticism

Dr. Walter L. Lingle began his career as a columnist about twelve years ago when he began to write for
The Presbyterian of the South, which was published in Richmond and edited by Dr. A. W. S. Hyde. He now
writes for The Christian Observer, not a column, but a full page. Years...

MISS KAY KEEVER is the...

...explanation...

...is to replace the window...

...singer with Jelly Leftwich and his band. She will make the Armory ring this coming Saturday...

...Presbyterian...

...weekend...

...has been perfectly content to live his quiet, unassuming life, first in western North Carolina...

...Christian Observer, published in Louisville. Though listed as a contributing editor, Dr. Lingle has no connection whatever with The Christian
Observer, beyond the article which he contributes every week. The articles are published under the head “Talks on Timely Topics.”
This was The Christian Observer's idea, not Dr. Lingle’s. He had just finished a series of four articles on “Some
Distinctive Features of the Presbyterian Church.”...

...Miss Kay Keever...

...several unusual instruments...

...obtained by the Department of Music...

...seems, does the same type of work his father does here at Davidson, except that the son is at...

...the Bell family, which is played...

...from a regular piano keyboard. Its use is common in many of our leading radio programs of today. Oftentimes it
is used to fill in during announcements or to modulate from one key to another. It is very delicate and
valuable, and the Davidson band is the only one in the state, and perhaps the only band in the South
which has one.

Another instrument which has recently been obtained by the Music Department is the five-octave Marimba. It is as large as
any marimba that has ever been made. Many bands today are using...Schools have grown away from orthodox religious practices too.
Through the courtesy of the General Electric Company, the department of Physics and Chemistry presented their first motion picture at
6:30 Monday evening. The marimba can be classed with the xylophone family, although its tone is much more resonant than
the xylophone. It can be packed up for band trips but takes two very large trunks. A large glockenspiel has
also been added. This glockenspiel sounds an octave lower than a regular built instrument. It also has two resonators in
the back of each bar, thus making a more brilliant and prolonged tone. It is one of three of its
kind in existence, having been made especially for the Davidson and Purdue College Bands, and the Lenoir High School Band.

Unbelievable as it may seem, Torrance never has cared much for football games and although he appreciates the complimentary tickets
sent to him, he never goes. Nor does he enjoy modern dancing or its music. "I voted the Democratic ticket
from Roosevelt down to the county surveyor in this election and in every other," he said.

The greatest concern for the student is borrowing tools and then never bothering to return them, which sometimes costs him
the most worry. On Friday night at 6:30, there was a show of four reels, beginning with the Spray Y.M.C.A.
grapplers preparing for the season opener. Four letter-men will form the nucleus of a strong and experienced team. The Wildcats
will have a good many from last year's team. They will attend the annual Hi-Y conference, which will be held
in Winston-Salem on the 12th of December. All prospective students will be given an examination on the 19th of December,
and in Charlotte, N.C., on January 2nd at 2 P.M. This examination is being given all over the state.

The Wildcats will next meet their first Southern Conference foe of the season when they pass the Charlotte Y.M.C.A. on
the 16th of January. They will then take a brief respite for exams and then recommence their schedule by meeting
the Carolina matmen in Chapel Hill on February 5th. The varsity and Kitten teams will then take on the V.P.I.
varsity and freshmen on February 9th. The N.C. State Wolves will then come here on February 20th to meet the
Wildcats. The Cat wrestlers will then close their season by taking on the Charlotte Y.M.C.A. on January 2nd.

Don't go to Charlotte—try the Southern 5 & 10c Store. Anything and everything. A tradition of Davidson men. Johnson's Barber
Shop: Four out of five come here.

Swing Maestro Leftwich, above the baton for his recent Charlotte dances, will be the judge at the try-out on December
2nd. Varsity debaters will act as judges. The freshman debate material has been selected and the team will be chosen
soon. The debate will be held in the Philanthropic Society Hall. Members of the varsity debating team will be present.
The debate topic is "Resolved: That the United States should adopt the essential features of the British system of radio
control."

J. Foreman will preach on the topic "The Ideal Mate" for the benefit of the college students. Another feature, "Hitch
Hiker," will be presented by Dr. Abel. The Davidson College Store will have a special sale on Christmas items.

Get a smooth job at Norton's Barber Shop. All this week, Joe E. Brown in "Rolo Joe." The love story
that reaches heights never since touched by the screen! William Powell and Kay Francis in a return engagement of their
immortal love story "One Way Passage," a Warner Bros. & Vitaphone Picture directed by Tay Garnett. Charlotte, N.C.
