4 THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 15, 1936

FREDDY MARTIN OUTSTANDING BAND LEADER

Maestro Starts Musical Career At Fifteen and Rises to National Fame

IS VERSATILE SAXOPHONIST

Orchestra Is Featured on Many Radio Programs

Freddy Martin, leader of the fourteen-piece band which will play at the Winter dances on January 31-February 1, is a native of Cleveland, Ohio. He turned to music for a revenue when he was forced, at the age of fifteen, to make his own way in the world. He first sold musical supplies to small orchestras operating in the Cleveland territory, among which was the now famous Lombardo band. The Lombardos took an interest in young Freddy and made a saxophonist out of him.

A few years later, Martin branched out with a five-piece orchestra of his own, playing for high-school and freshman college dances. This orchestra soon disbanded, however, and Martin went to New York, where he got a job as a saxophonist with an orchestra in the ballroom of a midtown hotel. The manager noticed Martin’s work, asked him to play a few solos, and soon he was able to turn down offers from Whiteman, Vallee, and Lombardo, in order to organize an orchestra of his own. With this band he played over station WMAC, and gradually began to take the public's attention to the point that Freddy Martin was a name to be reckoned with in the music business.

By the time Freddy Martin’s orchestra was making more records, it was forecast by an important program director that “the future of this orchestra is assured.” The importance of these dances is underscored by an announcement from Council President Brant.

Museum Receives Buddhist Painting

The very museum has recently acquired an ancient painting from a Buddhist lama. A coarse cover, which originally was draped over the painting when not in use, hangs above the painting. The cover, border, and canvas are all made of hand-woven cloth. The border and hanging are of coarse material like burlap, while the canvas is of much finer texture.

This painting bears some kind of religious symbolism. In the center is the picture of a god who appears to be sitting upon some kind of beast. Surrounding him are horsemen, all of whom are dressed in different attire. Also within the case in which this queer, mystical painting is preserved, is a votive stone taken from a pile of similar stones at a wayside shrine. Upon it are carved OM MANI PADME HUM, Buddhist sacred syllables, which interpreted mean “The jewel in the heart of the lotus.” Why these words should be sacred is still a mystery.

Mr. M. P. HENDERSON

Cars for Rent
Gulf Gas and Oil

Four Men Attend Meeting Of Young Peoples’ League

Four Davidson delegates were present at the Annual Mid-Winter meeting of the Council of the Young Peoples’ League of the North Carolina Synod, held in Burlington, N. C., Saturday. Attending from Davidson were John McMullen, President of the Synod; Frank Brown, Chairman of Foreign Missions; Monroe Wicker, Chairman of Stewardship; and Sam Ryburn, President of the Young Peoples’ League of the Concord Presbytery.

The synod holds its annual conference at Davidson during the summer and represents five hundred churches. One of their aims is to have a young peoples’ organization in every church. The council meeting was entirely for business, such as drawing up a program of work, discussion on revising the constitution, etc.

Forensic Club Inducts Quartet Local Orators

Alpha Phi Epsilon, national honorary forensic fraternity, in a meeting before the holidays initiated four new members. Boggs was chosen president, and Wilbur Mauze was selected as vice president.

STUDENT VOLUNTEERS ATTEND THE INDIANAPOLIS CONVENTION

Eight representatives of Davidson attended the Quadrennial Convention of the Student Volunteer Movement, held in Indianapolis, from December 28 through January 1. Delegates were: J. S. McMullen, W. F. Bell, J. H. Ross, F. A. Brown, K. M. Scott, A. O. Shelby, A. L. Skinner, and R. A. Torrey. Convention headquarters were in the Hotel Severin and principal meetings were held in the Cadle Tabernacle. A convention is held once every four years.college generation—four years. The Convention covered a wide area in the scope of the topics handled, bearing on the general theme of the present. These new men were chosen because of their forensic accomplishments on the campus. Joe Dees is varsity cheerleader, Eumenean Literary Society president, and a member of the debating team. Charles Haywood is on the debating team and a regular officer of the fraternity. Other members of the Alpha Phi Epsilon are Joe Dees, Haywood Hill, Charles Mauze, Payt Harlan, Tyler Port, Harold Sugg, and Bob Stuart. The purpose of Alpha Phi Epsilon is to recognize and encourage forensic ability and achievement on the campus.

J. Reid Graham, an alumnus of Davidson who has traveled in Tibet and who is now a student at Yale University.

QUALITY AT LOW COST
M. H. GOODRUM & CO.
HARDWARE RADIOS
Notebooks Paper
SOUTHERN 5c & 10c STORE
COLOR PHOTOGRAPHS of Your Favorite Movie Star

Seminars were held, conducted by world-renowned religious leaders, expressing various phases of missions, inter-racial problems, international problems, and the mission of the church in the world today. Many religious leaders from all parts of the globe were at the Convention, not only as speakers and leaders, but as delegates. Representatives were present from China, Japan, India, the Near East, Africa, South America, and Latin America. Among the speakers were William Temple, Archbishop of York; T. Z. Koo, a leader of Chinese Students and interpreter of the East to the West; Mrs. Induk Park, of Korea; Toyohiko Kagawa, famous Japanese Christian leader; and many others. The chairman of the Convention was George Stewart, and Jesse R. Wilson was the Executive Secretary.

The international aspect of the Convention is shown somewhat in the attendance: there were 275 representatives from Canada, and 103 from other countries (at present studying in the U.S.). Forty-three states were represented, and about 400 colleges. Almost 90 missionaries were in attendance. In addition to the seminars and lectures, there were informal entertainments and services. Various groups got together from time to time for meals or reunions. All delegates seemed highly pleased with the result and tone of the Convention, and all felt the interruption in vacation to be well worth while.

Leaflets advertising a Nazi book were found inserted into a standard German text at CCNY recently. They were removed and ordered destroyed.

Douglas Davis, a freshman from Wesleyan, lives near Peking, Ohio.

THE MOST OF THE BEST IN GOOD HAIRCUTS
Johnson’s

Charlotte, N.C.
PAUL AND CRYMES, INC.
SPORTING GOODS
415 South Tryon Street

Davidson Theatre
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 15
With John Boles and Gladys Swarthout
SATURDAY, JANUARY 18
With Miriam Hopkins, Joel McCrea
KING OF BURLESQUE (Already Reviewed)
THURSDAY AND FRIDAY, JANUARY 16-17
TALE OF TWO CITIES With Ronald Colman
MONDAY AND TUESDAY, JANUARY 20-21
ROSE OF THE RANCHO With Jean Harlow and Spencer Tracy
WEDNESDAY AND THURSDAY, JANUARY 22-23
SPLENDOR With Claudette Colbert, Fred McMurray, and Robert Young
MONDAY AND TUESDAY, JANUARY 27-28
BRIDE COMES HOME With Paul Cavanagh, and Billie Burke

© 1936, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.