THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 15, 1936

HONOR ROLL

Bill Boyd and “Little Swede” Johnson Picked as Frosh Basketball Stars by Jim Hodgin

Sports Afield

HONOR ROLL

Leroy Blackwelder and Charles Parker Chosen as Varsity Wrestling Stars by Gordon Woodward

By HARRY KUYKENDALL

Frosh and varsity basketball took it on the chin last weekend in the form of a defeat at the hands
of N. C. State's ferocious Wolves as local fans witnessed a full program with four Wildcat teams occupying the spotlight.
Our old standbys, the wrestlers, saved the day by defeating High Point “Y” much the same as the Kitten grapplers
trounced their opponents, Salisbury High, Friday. The most gratifying and commendable performance of the entire card was that staged by
Davidson’s gymnasts extraordinary—Gordon Smith, Lloyd Feuchtenberger, John Templeton, Bob Blue, and Elmore Holt. The strength and grace with which these
men performed afforded a delightful surprise to spectators; Jerry Harris, a surprise that proved a refreshing interlude to a disappointing
game.

CATS CLAW

Another opponent of our feline friend was banished Saturday afternoon when the local grapplers clawed their way through the High
Point “Y” which boasts, as well it should, of the services of Parks, for over three years a State Champion
grappler. Parks pulled the “iron man” stunt by taking on both Andy Davis and Johnny Allen, pinning them both. However,
there are always two sides to an argument and although it is not sportsmanlike to alibi, the fact remains that
because of the empty places left by Bob Blue and Howard Summerell, who dropped out on the Doctor's advice, Davis
was called upon to qualify for the 118-pound class which necessitated a loss of 5½ pounds in a few days.
Thus, by dropping into another weight class, his vacancy in the 126 class had to be filled by Johnny Allen
who, though inexperienced, has given promise of becoming a real asset to the team. Davis termed Parks of High Point
as being “plenty good” at the wrestling game. Another shake-up in the local team finds Joe Gamble at the position
formerly occupied by Johnson. Joe, however, was not called upon Saturday as High Point forfeited his match.

Parker and Captain Blackwelder are easily the outstanding members of the present team. Parker, against a seemingly stockier opponent, gave
the spectators the usual thrill by starting right off and by the use of some spectacular bits of strategy. Blackwelder,
in his initial match as Captain of the team, did not belay the confidence placed in him and proceeded to
give Shipman of High Point, a typical stocky built wrestler, a defeat by pinning him early in the match. McFadyen
was hard put to eke out a decision over his opponent after getting off to a bad start. However, his
long legs and arms enabled him to escape from many a dangerous situation eventually to win his scrap. Crabb, a
junior transfer, has plenty of courage and toughness, and may prove a real fighter after more experience. All we can
say to comfort the basketball team is that they were up against the future state champs (with the possible exception
of Duke). The local lads who played such a heads-up game against Carolina, were certainly off form.

A survey of the 34 men who have captained University of Vermont football teams reveals most of them are outstanding
successes. Arle Davis of Oklahoma kicked 23 extra points from placement in one game—Oklahoma vs. Kingfisher, in 1917. Balance sheet:
Oklahoma 179, K. I. 0. Famed soloist and some of the world’s finest musical organizations will be heard by an
immense music appreciation “class”—2000 strong—offered at Northwestern.

WINTER SPORTS SCHEDULE

Jan. 25—Freshman wrestling—Winston-Salem “Y”, there.
Jan. 29—Varsity basketball—Catawba, there.
Jan. 31—Varsity basketball—Elon, here.
Feb. 1—Varsity wrestling—Duke, there.
Feb. 4—Freshman basketball—Wingate, here.
Feb. 5—Varsity basketball—Lenoir-Rhyne, here.
Feb. 7—Varsity basketball—Wake Forest, there.
Feb. 7—Freshman basketball—Wake Forest, there.
Feb. 8—Varsity basketball—N. C. State, there.
Feb. 8—Freshman basketball—N. C. State, there.
Feb. 8—Varsity wrestling—V. P. I., there.
Feb. 11—Freshman basketball—Belmont, here.
Feb. 12—Varsity basketball—Carolina, there.
Feb. 13—Varsity basketball—Duke, there.
Feb. 15—Varsity basketball—Catawba, here.
Feb. 15—Varsity wrestling—Appalachian State, here.
Feb. 17—Varsity basketball—V. M. I., there.
Feb. 18—Varsity basketball—Virginia, there.
Feb. 19—Varsity basketball—V. P. I., there.
Feb. 22—Freshman basketball—Wake Forest, here.
Feb. 22—Varsity basketball—Wake Forest, here.
Feb. 22—Varsity wrestling—N. C. State, there.
Feb. 25—Varsity basketball—Erskine, here.
Feb. 26—Varsity basketball—Wofford, here.
Feb. 29—Varsity wrestling—Maryville, here.

WILDCATS TRIMMED BY DEVILS AND N. C. STATE

Devils Take Ninth Straight; Peabody, Knorr, Hancock Star for Wildcats

CONNIE BERRY STARS

The Wildcats lost two Big Five basketball contests last week against Duke and N. C. State.

DUKE 46: DAVIDSON 24

The Duke Blue Devils won their ninth straight game in as many starts in trouncing the Davidson Wildcats 46-24 in
Winston-Salem last Saturday night. John Tice, Davidson forward, played an outstanding game and was high-scorer with ten markers. “Swede” Johnson
tallied nine points along with Hall, a State forward. The rally at the beginning of the second half was cut
short by Duke’s superior play.

The Davidson forwards started the game with a vigorous attack which put the Wildcats far in the lead. Iverson, Tice,
and Johnson helped bring the score to 20-7 before Dunn and Roll broke through the Davidson defense. Boyd, Gaw, and
Sloan did well as guards during the first half, and the freshmen from State did not threaten the Davidson position
more than doubled the Cats' score by a 23-10 margin. Knorr, Reid, and Peabody were substituted in the Davidson lineup
in the second half.

WILDCATS WIN, RUGGED MATCH

The Davidson Wildcat grapplers, completely outclassed the wrestlers from the High Point Y.M.C.A. in the Davidson gym last Saturday afternoon
to win by a score of 24-10.

Parks of High Point turned in the afternoon's outstanding performance by pinning Perry Davis in the 115-lb. class and then
coming back onto the mat to pin Johnny Allen in the 125-lb. class. These two falls accounted for all of
High Point’s points. The Wildcats garnered their points through one fall, three time advantages, and defaults in the 155-lb. and
the unlimited classes.

Although overshadowed by the phenomenal performance of Parks, Leroy Blackwelder turned in his usual decisive triumph; his bout with Shipman,
a former Carolina wrestler, was the most interesting of the afternoon. Crabb, a newcomer to Davidson wrestling circles, managed by
a series of figure four scissors to gain a time advantage of nine minutes and forty-six seconds. Charlie Parker, a
veteran from last year's championship team, also performed well.

Five Wins, One Tie, And One Loss Mark Kittens’ Opener with Salisbury

The Freshmen Wrestling Team took the measure of the Salisbury High grapplers here last Friday by an overwhelming score of
34-4. The Kittens won six matches, five of them by falls, lost one, and one match ended in a draw.the
second half as a mad melee. Davidson's team did excellent work for the championship team, using a peculiar armlock. McIntyre
(D) pinned State's tall quintet to push the score to a decided advantage to gain a decision. Wood in 50
seconds. Wildcats were tied at the half. During the first half of the game, the Wildcats' passing went awry, throwing
away any chances of getting a lead. Parks gave the local wrestling fans a surprise when he pinned Andy Davis,
the boy on whom Coach Unger is pinning much of his hopes of retaining the state championship. The crowd gave
him a great ovation when he completed his startling defeat of pinning two men in succession.

The summary of the match is as follows: 115-lb. class—Parks (HP) won by a fall over Davis (D), 7:43; 125-lb.
class—Parks (HP) won by a fall over Allen (D), 9:32; 135-lb. class—Parker (D) won over Sappenfield (HP) by a time
advantage of 9:35; 145-lb. class—Crabb (D) won over McLain (HP) by a time advantage of 9:46; 155-lb. class—Default to Davidson;
165-lb. class—McFayden (D) won over Summey (HP) by a time advantage of 5:07; 175-lb. class—Blackwelder (D) won by a fall
over Shipman (HP), 5:07; Unlimited class—Default to Davidson. Referee: Parks Harrison (Davidson).

The Wildcats met their third Big Five setback here last Saturday night before a packed gymnasium as they went down
before the deadly N. C. State shooters to a 55-17 score. The first half featured numerous wild passes by the
Wildcats. The visitors made every advantage an opportunity to pile up seven points before the Davidson quint scratched. The N.C.
State basketeers were led by Connie Mack Berry, a lanky 6 foot, 3-inch center who scored 20 points during the
evening. Aycock, a forward, was runner-up to Berry with 15. Dalrymple, State guard, played a brilliant defensive game, while Peabody,
Knorr, and Barrow stood out for the Wildcats. State grabbed an early lead never to be headed and at the
half, the score stood 31-8 in favor of the Pack. Peabody, the main Wildcat scoring threat, was ousted for too
many fouls about midway through the first period. Bill Quick, in his initial home appearance on this year’s quint, was
outstanding for the Wildcats on defense and was responsible for three of his team’s points.

Local Track Stars To Try For Indoor Honors
In preparation for Davidson's competition in the indoor track meets to be held in Charlotte and at Chapel Hill, the
squad is working on the wooden track laid on the field between the dormitories and Chambers building. The Charlotte indoor
meet will be held sometime in February. It is open to both members and non-members of the Southern Conference. Last
year, John Lee of Davidson won first place in the pole vault in this meet. He and other members of
the team are expected to come through again.

Candidates For Spring Football Work In Gym
Thirty men are now engaged in the preliminary football work preparatory to the actual spring football sessions. This work will
continue through the examinations, and the outdoor practices will begin January twenty-seventh. This system of exercise prepares the boys for
early rough work. There seems to be a weakness in the boys’ arms and shoulders, and this seems to be
the surest way to correct this weakness. Boys who do not go through this series of exercises find their condition
far inferior to the ones who have worked in the gym daily. Therefore, if you plan to enter football next
fall, you will find in a short time that you are so far behind it will be impossible to catch
up. This is the most important part of next year’s team. As spring football goes, so goes the season!

No matter what type of underwear you prefer, you'll find it made by P. H. Hanes Knitting Company, Winston-Salem, N.C.
Medicated with ingredients of Vicks VapoRub. On sale at all good stores at popular prices.

If it’s musical, you’ll find it at Andrews Music Store, North Tryon St., Charlotte. Quality and service are built into
every Hanes garment.
