“dance—personal expenses at this time of favorable comment from those who heard him play.

CARL SANDBURG TO ADDRESS DAVIDSON AUDIENCE MONDAY

Che Dabidsonian
ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS
VOL. XXIV DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., OCTOBER 7, 1936

DUKE AMBASSADORS TO FURNISH MUSIC FOR INITIAL DANCE
Pan-Hellenic Council Will Hold First Dance of the Coming Series Sat. Night
Terpsechoreans to Have Only Single Chance to Shuffle
UNDERGRAD ORCHESTRA
Hop to Be Held in Charlotte Hotel Ballroom

Davidson’s social festivities will get under way Saturday night, October 10th, when the Pan-Hellenic Council sponsors its initial dance of
the season in the Hotel Charlotte Ballroom, featuring the music of Joe Burke and his Duke Ambassadors. Disregarding the usual
“set” of dances, the council will sponsor only one single dance at this occasion. Ed Armfield, president of the Pan-Hellenic
group, stated Monday “that since men on the campus have expressed their desire to cut the previously planned set to
a single because of unusually large personal expenses at this time of the year,” the council had done everything in
its power to conform with the wishes of the student body.”

Advance sale tickets are now on sale for $1.50 and can be obtained from any of the fraternity representatives on
the council. The price of tickets at the door will be $2.00. Armfield stated that “Friday night is the deadline
on advance sales.” Joe Burke and his band are returning by popular request to furnish music for the occasion. Burke
played for the Bowery Ball dance set last spring and received very favorable comment from those who heard him play.
Burke’s orchestra is famous for its imitations of Guy Lombardo and Hal Kemp. “Corkey” Cornelius, whom some of Davidson’s football
tackles may have met on the gridiron, is a rather recent addition to the “brass section” of the orchestra. The
orchestra is composed entirely of undergraduates of Duke University. The band has filled en- (Continued on Page 6)

Prepare Scholarship Applications Seniors

Monday, October 26, has been set as the last day on which application may be made to the Davidson College
Committee for the Rhodes Scholarships. This application should be in writing, but not on the official blank, which should be
reserved for application to state committees. All students interested (seniors) are urged to confer soon with some member of the
committee, which consists of Professors Vowles, Lilly, and Cumming. Alumni who are still under the age limit are eligible, whether
or not they have previously competed. Application blanks, which contain detailed information, may be secured from Dr. G. R. Vowles,
Chambers 3A.

TRIO OF PLAYS IN PRODUCTION
Three One-Act Dramas Will Be Presented on Oct. 27 By Red and Black Masquers

The Red and Black Masquers, their membership greatly augmented by a large group of freshmen, at the first regular meeting
of the year, decided to prepare for the production of three one-act plays during this month. Although the plays have
not been chosen as yet, the date for the show had been set and the officers of the players, who
compose a committee of selection, are busy considering suitable plays. Tuesday evening, October 27th, is the date announced for the
first presentation of the usually excellent Masquer productions. Dunlap Covington, president; John Allen, vice-president; Mac Covington, secretary-treasurer; and Tyler Port,
manager, are the members of the committee that is choosing the plays. Because of the large group of freshmen turning
out for dramatics, one of the plays will be entirely in the hands of the new men. Eagerness and willingness
to work on the part of the freshmen is expected to develop quite a few competent actors. It was announced
that plans are under way to make possible several full-length, three-act dramas to be presented at intervals during the coming
season. More definite information on this will be given out when the casting directors have a chance to look over
the new men and see what talent is available. The dates and names of these plays, however, will not be
announced until some later time. Last year the Masquers produced two three-act plays which were highly praised by critics and
equally successful shows are expected this year. “Three-Cornered Moon” and “The Queen’s Husband” were among last season’s outstanding successes.

Lenoir High Band To Represent V.M.I. Team

Under the direction of James C. Harper, the Lenoir high school band will come to Davidson Saturday in its two
forty-passenger buses to represent Virginia Military Institute at the Davidson-V.M.I. game. This band, secured by J. C. Pfohl for the
occasion, has one of the most outstanding records of any high school band in the United States. It is the
only organization of its kind on record owning its own buses and instrument truck. Saturday the members of the group
will wear for the second time the new uniforms they secured this year. Mr. Harper, director, besides being an alumnus
of Davidson, is also a member of the board of trustees. The Davidson band, under Prof. Pfohl, will be on
hand as usual to play in the cheering section.

COUNCIL OF HONORARY FRATERNITIES ADOPTS BIMONTHLY MEETINGS FOR GROUP MEMBERS
Alpha Psi Omega, Dramatic Fraternity, Is Placed on Regular Schedule
TYLER PORT PRESIDES
Phi Beta Kappa Representative Not Yet Chosen

At a meeting on Friday of last week, the Honorary Fraternity Council decided to adopt practically the same schedule for
fraternity meetings that was used last year. Tyler Port, president of the Council, was chairman of the meeting. Alpha Psi
Omega, a national dramatic fraternity, was placed on the regular schedule. Phi Beta Kappa had no representative since that group
has not yet been chosen. Each fraternity will conduct bimonthly meetings, with the exception of the Y’s Cabinet, which meets
each week. The schedule of these meetings will go into effect next Monday. The following are members of the Honorary
Fraternity Council: Tyler Port, president, International Relations Club; W. D. Covington, vice-president, Alpha Psi Omega (Dramatic); Harold Sugg, secretary, Alpha
Phi Epsilon (Forensic); D. Allen, Sigma Upsilon (Literary); H. W. Bradley, Gamma Sigma Epsilon (Chemical); J. I. Branch, Scabbard and
Blade (Military); J. E. Branch, Sigma Delta Pi (Spanish); W. D. Covington (Red and Black Masquers); W. A. Douglas, Sigma
Pi Sigma (Physics); W. S. Edwards, Omicron Delta Kappa (Leadership); J. H. Gailey, Philanthropic Literary Society; E. F. Horine, Delta
Phi Alpha (German); J. D. Johnston, Sigma Delta Psi (Athletic); K. M. Scott, Eta Sigma Phi (Classical); K. B. Stewart,
Eumenean Literary Society; J. C. Winn, Le Cercle Francais (French); T. B. Anderson, Ministerial Band (Religious); J. W. Dickson, Y.
M. C. A. Cabinet.

LOCAL GROUP OF HI-Y MEN ATTEND MEETING

In co-operation with the Mecklenburg County Federation of Hi-Y clubs, six members of the Davidson Hi-Y group met in a
joint meeting of these organizations in the schools of the county Tuesday night, September 29, in Hanna Hall at the
Y. M. C. A. At this meeting Kenneth Foreman was elected vice-president of the new Federation, and J. M. Bryant
of Davidson was named as a member of the executive committee of adult advisors. Davidson Hi-Y boys made a report
on the International Hi-Y congress held at Berea, Ky., in June and also gave talks on the work done in
their schools and clubs. T. M. Bryant led the closing prayer. Bill Wood of Davidson was selected as acting secretary
of the meeting. A. C. Sheldon, boys’ work secretary of the Y. M. C. A., outlined the work for the
following months. The boys voted to hold a religious survey in the schools in October and a county-wide father-and-son banquet
in November. Ed Jackson is president of the local club, and Ed Shewmake is vice-president. The local Hi-Y group has
been functioning for several years under the guidance of the Y. M. C. A. While the organization is under the
supervision of college students here, the members are boys from high schools in the vicinity. The organization has grown considerably
within the last few years and has placed many of its men among the officers of larger Hi-Y units.

HARRISON GETS POST VACATED BY PATTERSON
Will Take Over Duties of Former Junior Class Representative on Student Council
WINS IN SECOND VOTE
Lafferty and Brown Other Junior Members

Monday morning, Tip Harrison was elected to the Student Council as one of the representatives from the Junior class, filling
the vacancy left by Buford Patterson who withdrew from school. The voting began last Friday when Wilbur Edwards announced that
a committee had nominated the following men: Dick Vowles, Will Keisewetter, and Harrison. Harry McLaughlin was nominated from the floor
and then the nominations were closed. By Monday the nomi- (Continued on Page 6)

Le Cercle Francais Takes In Seven Men

Le Cercle Francais, the French Society of Davidson College, yesterday issued invitations to seven students in advanced French. Those invited
to join were L. M. Allison, Alton Cates, Owen Cooke, H. H. McFadyen, John Reisner, H. A. Sigmon, and J.
N. Smith. Opening their fall program with a called meeting last week, the six active members nominated these men. The
Club will hold its first regular meeting on October 27, 1936, at which time the new members will be initiated
and will be in charge of the program. The six active members are John Winn, president; Ralph McClelland, Frank Poe,
Wade Barrow, Sam Cothran, and Dick Vowles.

SUDDEN BLAST

The home of Mrs. Hengeveld, our registrar’s wife, was the scene of a terrific explosion Saturday morn-ing. - An old
laundry stove being used to heat the kitchen this particular morning was the cause of the accident. Some water left
in the jacket of the heater turned to steam and blew the stove to bits. The shock of the explosion
shook plaster from the ceiling, blew two doors completely from their hinges, and wrecked all the kitchen furniture. Fortunately, no
one was in the room when the explosion occurred. Five minutes before the blast, Mrs. Hengeveld was seated a few
feet from the stove. Luckily she went out of the room and shut the door, for a few minutes later—after
the explosion—the frame of the chair upon which she had been sitting was hanging on a piece of the stove,
driven so deeply into the wall that it took two men to tear it out. Whew! said Mrs. Hengeveld, obviously
an optimist, after the accident which had completely wrecked her kitchen, “Well, I've wanted a new kitchen for a long
time; now I'll get one.”

Oakhurst Elects Bowers To Faculty

The Oakhurst district school committee meeting at the courthouse several days ago unanimously elected J. Enid Bowers, Davidson College graduate
of last spring, to the vacancy on the faculty of the Oakhurst high school. Bowers graduated from Davidson with a
Bachelor of Science degree in History. While an undergraduate he was a member of Sigma Delta Pi, Eumenean Literary Society,
Glee Club, Quips and Cranks staff, the Davidsonian staff, and the Junior Dance Committee. He was an assistant in history
and made the Dean’s list.

BIGGEST PEP MEETING FOR CURRENT SEASON IS GOING TO PRECEDE FIRST HOME CONTEST

Yells and Music to Feature Gathering of Students on Eve of Dav.-V. M. I. Conflict — CAMPUS LEADERS TALK

Mammoth Shirt-Tail Parade By Freshmen

Speaking in the absence of Gene Vogler, head cheerleader, who was off the campus, Wade Barrow, junior cheerleader, predicted that
next Friday night will see the biggest pep meeting of the year to date. On the eve of the Davidson-V.M.I.
game, first home game of the 1940 Wildcats, the students will gather at the stadium at Richardson Field. Beginning with
a few yells and music by the famed Davidson College Band, the meeting will later feature talks by several campus
leaders, both student and faculty. Following this, the meeting will adjourn to the front of the stadium, where flares will
be lit by the cheerleaders, who will direct the freshman class in a mammoth shirt-tail parade, which will proceed from
the stadium around the “D” and back to the stadium for a few more yells. The meeting will then be
adjourned, to be begun again with added vigor as the “Cats trot onto the field for the tilt with V.M.I.
Spirit is running high in the Wildcats' lair this week. The contest with the Cadets on Richardson Field, Saturday, is
the initial appearance of the 1940 edition of the Davidson football team on their home sod, and everything points to
a thrilling spectacle. Straight from three trips, the 'Cats battle the most powerful V.M.I. team in recent years. When the
opening whistle shrills, the famous 'Cat spirit will be here at full blast.

SCABBARD AND BLADE HOLDS FIRST MEETING

The Scabbard and Blade held its first formal meeting Wednesday night. Work for the year will get under way at
that time. Since the present members were not chosen until the spring of the last school year, the work is
delayed in starting. However, it is hoped that in the future there will be no further hindrance of this kind.
The officers for this year were also chosen in the spring and they are as follows: President, Jack Branch; vice-president,
Jim Johnston; treasurer, Buddy Branton; and secretary, Russell Patterson. It has been announced that there will be held in Raleigh
from November 19-21 a national convention of Scabbard and Blade. The official delegate from Davidson College is Jack Branch, but
many of the local members are expected to attend. Within the next few days definite plans will be made concerning
the “flag detail.” This plan provides for having the United States flag on the flagpole every day from 7:55 in
the morning to 5:25 in the evening. More definite plans will be announced at a later date. The Scabbard and
Blade has always ranked among the highest organizations of its kind, and is a chapter of the well-known, nationwide society
bearing the same name. It is looked up to on the campus, being especially efficient and military in all of
its actions, and it contains many of the most prominent men of the campus. A few bids will be sent
out during the last of the first semester. Informal initiation will be held the second semester.

Sandburg Will Interpret Modernistic Free Verse To Student Body Monday

The Davidsonian went to press,

Barrow Elected For Student Body Office

Wade Barrow, class of '37, was elected second vice-president of the student body to fill the vacancy caused by Buford
Patterson's failure to return to the school this fall in an election held last week. Barrow was elected on the
second ballot over Dick Vowles, Kiesewetter, and Laurence, who were presented for nomination by a student council nominating committee. He
is a member of Kappa Sigma fraternity, and the Red and Black Masquers, local dramatic organization. He is a junior
cheerleader and played varsity basketball last season.

GIBSON TALKS

Guest Quartet Will Render Special Music

Guest minister for Vesper Service next Sunday evening will be the Rev. Arthur D. Gibson of the Presbyterian Church at
Sanford. A special feature of the service will be the special music by a guest quartet. This quartet will be
composed of the Rev. and Mrs. Gibson and Rev. and Mrs. A. J. McElway, of Pinehurst. This group has had
a great deal of experience as a choral unit in religious music. The complete order of service: Special music by
quartet Bless the Lord O My Soul by Ippolitof-Ivanoff; invocation; All the Power of Jesus’ Name; offering; scripture lesson; quartet—O!
Rejoice Ye Christians Loudly, by Bach; sermon; prayers; quartet—On Yon Dark Mount of Olives, by Haydn, and Now Are Mine
Eyes Dim, by Haydn; and Late Hymn Benediction, by the quartet. The above ministers were invited in carrying out the
program inaugurated by the Davidson Y.M.C.A. to invite guest ministers to conduct the Vesper Services each week. This plan was
started last year, after the trustees had decided to hold the student services in Chambers Auditorium. Dr. Walter Lingle, Dr.
Moffett, and the Rev. Rowan have conducted the Evening Services so far this year. Many of the most prominent ministers
in the south preached to the students last year at these services. Among the other ministers to be heard here
this fall are the Rev. John McSween, the Rev. Ben D. Lacy of Richmond, and the Rev. Charles E. Myers
of Greensboro.

I. R. C. Led By Port; Will Meet On Friday

The International Relations Club, under the leadership of its new president, Tyler Port, will hold its first meeting of the
year on Friday night at nine o'clock. The purpose of this club is to study and discuss the political and
economic situations here and abroad, and it is expected that a good many meetings will be held this year, because
of the troubling times. The membership of the club at present is ten, but it is hoped that more will
be recruited this year. Besides the president, the other officers of the club are John Winn, vice-president. During the past
few years, this club has brought several sectional conferences to the campus and many outstanding speakers, who not only spoke
to the club, but also to the student body.

Poet Is Well Equipped to Translate American Life Into Song

WILL USE GUITAR, CHANT

Critics Divided in Judgment of Modernistic Work

One of the lecturers to appear at Davidson this year will be Carl Sandburg, America’s “most truly native poet,” who
will be here Monday night, October 12. He will use his guitar and chant to interpret his very modernistic free
verse. Sandburg is well equipped to be the translator of modern American life into verse. Before he had reached the
age of seventeen he had worked as a porter in a barber shop, driver of a milk wagon, scene-shifter in
a theater, and truck operator at a brick kiln. Leaving home for the west at seventeen, he worked there in
the Kansas wheat fields, washed dishes in large western cities, and served as a carpenter's assistant. He ended up by
returning to his original home in Illinois to become an apprentice to a house painter in Galesburg. After college, Sandburg
traveled about the country engaged in many varied occupations. During this time he wrote constantly. In 1914 he achieved his
first major success in literature when the magazine, Poetry, awarded him its Levinson prize for his poem, “Chicago.” Ever since
then he has been publishing volumes of poetry. In 1926 he entered the field of biography with Abraham Lincoln—The Prairie
Years, the first of a three-volume, comprehensive study of Lincoln. This work is probably the most complete and most accurate
biography of Lincoln ever written. This lecture, only one of a series he presented this year, is free to students
and friends of the college.

KELLOGG PLACES FIRST IN FROSH CAKE RACE

Ninety-Three Students Enter Freshman Race

Bob Kellogg won the sixth annual freshman cake race last Tuesday afternoon in 10:28.5 minutes, over the 1.7 mile course.
Joe Gammon came in second, and A. R. Kenyon third. Bill Preston, T. V. Hall, and N. G. McFadyen came
in fourth, fifth, and sixth, respectively. This year there were 93 entries in the race. The record for the course
is held by P. E. Walker and D. B. Woodward, who tied for first place last year, with a time
of 9:35.5 minutes. This race is held each year for the purpose of getting good runners for the freshman cross
country team. The first 21 to cross the tape received prizes donated by the boarding houses and merchants. Those who
received prizes are given below in the order in which they finished: 1. Bob Kellogg, 2. Joe Gammon, 3. A.
R. Kenyon, 4. Bill Preston, 5. T. V. Hall, 6. N. G. McFadyen, 7. W. H. White, 8. W. C.
Fitzgerald, 9. W. S. Wing, 10. R. L. Miller, 11. L. S. Hunter, 12. James Batten, 13. H. E. Gildersleeve,
14. H. D. Verner, 15. J. D. Gilham, 16. Wm. Bolin, 17. T. T. Shabel, 18. Dick Gammon, and 19.
W. G. Swasey.

Hengeveld Reveals Registration Check

A recent check-up by the Registrar, Mr. Hengeveld, reveals that 112 of the students enrolled at Davidson last year did
not return for the 1936-37 session. Many reasons are given for these students not returning. The main one being that
they have transferred to other schools of higher learning. In this group there are 34 students. A few of the
remaining 78 expect to return for the second semester.
