Page Four THE DAVIDSONIAN, WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 7, 1936

KITTENS PLAY WOFFORD FROSH ON FRIDAY

SPORTS AFIELD

WILDCATS FACE CADETS HERE SATURDAY

Cadet Gridders Have Excellent Record, Boasting Two Victories

HAS STRONG BACKFIELD

Team Made Up of Lettermen And Sophomores

Cadets, in the M: I after, a hands o 2 to’ Day t ta Phe Ca the W re r ind efeated 19-10 i t a 24-7 ish i x £ the S t " ( t re ed passing attack | ciak eV. M. I. quarterback shed ugh the sand fan 4) it ! wn. The Ca vere aler 1 got the \ t | e top “ i S ‘ 1 te ‘ 1 the } t_ the Prine Gicree S tl i t PRET t | ‘ va King QO: as It i g Sturdy Purdy , ese i cking g ¢ Jake ; st lt H f ; H \ | 1 t g g all the He +} d et br aced, That crowd at the grid-graph was as enthusiastic and as interested as the actual followers in Annapolis. The thrills and heartbreaks drove them from the depths to the heights of cheer and back. When the game was over, two Charlotte doctors remarked, “It was fine (the game), however, I’m nervous, and I can never stand another afternoon on edge like that.”

Barium Stars

ng out of & interference. At. the ind Williams have given Davidson a real pair of flan ity Duke, State, and Navy. < flanks, en that The Freshmen surprised in their opener when they trampled P. J. C. Roberson and Wayt Clark

Wildcats Meet V. M. I. For First Home Game

KITTENS WALLOP P.I. IN INITIAL ENCOUNTER BEFORE LARGE CROWD

Rackley, Watkins, McClintock And Richmond Lead Spirited Attack

The Wilkittens opened their season successfully last Thursday with a 25-0 victory over Presbyterian Junior College. What the ‘Kittens lacked in size they made up with speed. DRG bie wed by a former added interest to the spectators. The most exciting play of the game came late in the half when Jim Currie, a substitute quarterback, intercepted a pass on the P. J. C. 35-yard line and raced down the sidelines for a touchdown. The backfield while good in their first game, kept the opposition at bay most of the time. Rackley and Watkins stood out. Rackley passed, kicked, and ran well, in addition to playing a nice game from his quarterback post. “Bits” Watkins ripped off many nice gains and played jam-up ball on the defense. In the line, McClintock and Richmond were outstanding.

(Continued on Page 6)

tur ble Vay 1, 8 Sec was an in t il Kentucky W its’ eleven, The ( tra Lexington, \ Le receive S-0 dete Andy I iak the backfield Al the mainstay t Ne an unde- Nine let- ing Jim Far AMS ! Conference guard, tw halt All-State backs, Bill strong backfield good backs, including her two four 1hassa state backs, 1ore backs other brilliant Trezeciak, shifty halves, and sophomore quarterback for the Cadets, played a stellar game in the backfield. Bud K r, another sophomore, is an excellent kicker and passer. The sophomore backs are un- i good runners, Saunders and Campbell. Beard are two veteran backs who are fighting for positions against the newcomers. Ends, Brown, and Fiedler, tackle, are veterans in the line besides Farley the All-Southern guard.

(Continued on Page 6)

Carlson Sees Big Year Tennis Tour. Opens

The tennis tournament opened on Monday, October 1, with an entry of 36 men. According to Hird Covington, the prospects are fairly good, but hurt considerably by the loss of Kenyon, who played last year and did not return. The way the players are seeded: 1—Kenney, 2—Carlson, 3—Hornbeck, 4—Woodward. Members of last year's freshman team are expected to do well, especially North, White, and Jones, who have shown good form so far. Carlson, captain of the cross-country team this year, is expecting to have a good season. The result of this fall tournament will directly affect the seeding for the spring tournament, at which time the team will be picked.

(Continued on Page 6)

Tryon & Trade Sts. NATIONAL SHIRT SHOPS —Open Saturday Nights— On the Square

DEMON DEACONS IN UPSET OVER STATE

Carolina Shows Much Improvement in Downing Tenn. Volunteers

Smashing the State Wolves, many predicted would rise to the heights after their loss to Davidson, the Demon Deacons have established themselves as strong contenders for Big Five and Southern Conference honors. In Hal Warren, Coach Weaver has found a worthy running mate to the renowned Walt Kitchen. Twice Warren thrilled the crowd with long runs, one going for a touchdown. The other points were made in the second quarter on Kitchen’s field goal. Berki, Hunk Anderson's best running back, who was injured in the Davidson game, watched the contest from the bench. Duke found unexpected opposition in the South Carolina Gamecocks, but in the final quarter, the Parker-Hackney combination proved too much for their opponents and scored twice, bringing the count to 14-0.

STALWART "CAT LINESMAN

Pictured above is Joe Hunter, smashing tackle on the Davidson Varsity. Hunter’s performance so far this season has marked him as an outstanding prospect for All-State tackle. He is acclaimed by Ted Husing and many other sports critics as one of the leading tackles in this section. His most outstanding performance was in the N. C. State game when he continued to tackle State’s backs before they could get started, often throwing them for long losses, and had the honor of being called the best man on the field.

YANKEES LEAD 2 IN SERIES

Yankee Artillery Shatters National League Club’s Morale

By OVID BELL

The New York Yankees are coming down the home stretch in this 1936 World Series leading Bill Terry’s Giants by a one-game margin after the fifth game Monday afternoon. Last Wednesday afternoon saw Carl Hubbell, who chalked up a very pretty record this season with sixteen consecutive wins, pitch a 9-4 victory out at the Polo Grounds on a field much better suited for making mud-pies than playing championship ball. The second game, postponed on Thursday afternoon because the field was still muddy from the Wednesday flood, was a Yankee track meet which they won by a (Continued on Page 6)

JUNIORS, SOPHS TIE IN CLASS FOOTBALL

Sophomores Outplay Upper-Classmen in Extra Period Game

The Sophomores outplayed the Juniors as the second of the intramural football games ended in a 6-6 tie, after ten minutes of extra play. Charlie Sampleled the Sophs to victory as he intercepted a pass on the Juniors’ 15-yard line and ran for a touchdown in the first quarter of the game. Lang, Boyd, and others also made a good showing for the Sophomores. The Juniors made their only score in the third quarter when Ganier caught a pass from Lyons to run for a touchdown. McQueen, Hartzog, and Dixon aided the Juniors. As the game was a 6-6 tie at the end of the fourth quarter, it was 21-0. Ed Clary, last of a long line of football-playing Clarys, consistently outkicked the great Ace to stave off several Blue Devil threats.

Ray Wolf's North Carolina Tar Heels made a great comeback to whip the Tennessee Vols, 14-6. Although many ragged edges were noticeable, the team has come a long way since they barely nosed out Wake Forest. Justice, Weiner, and Hutchins were the big noises in the first Carolina touchdown.

HAIRCUTS OUR SPECIALTY
DAVIS Barber Shop
Formerly Overcash Barber Shop

THE TAVERN
“All We Ask is a Fair Trial”
Hotel Charlotte
CHARLOTTE

DR. PEPPER BOTTLING CO.
221 N. Graham St.
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

STRONG NAVY TEAM WINS GRID THRILLER
Antrim and Ingram Lead Middie Attack Which Nets Touchdowns in Second and Fourth Quarters. Soucer Is Defensive Star
ARMFIELD CATCHES PASS FOR ’CAT SCORE
Fumbles Ruin Scoring Chances in Third Period. Wildcats Outplay Navy in Second Half
By Ken Lawson

Finding the combination of a burning sun and a horde of husky Navy reserves too much to handle, the Davidson “Iron Men” were defeated at Annapolis Saturday by a score of 19-6. The Wildcats commenced badly but after the first Navy score, they came back with a tremendous show of power and deception to score one touchdown in the second period and threaten several times in the third. A fresh Middie team took advantage of a fumble and an intercepted pass in the fourth period to push over two touchdowns.

Navy Opens Strong
The Navy offense began to click in the opening minutes of play. Behind strong interference, Ingram carried the ball on end runs and tricky cut-backs for consistent gains to the Davidson 2-yard line where a fumble gave Davidson possession of the ball. The Middies threatened all through the first period. They pushed through the nervous, erratic Davidson team to the 16-yard line at the end of the first quarter.

An entirely new Navy team took the field during the rest period. Behind the perfect blocking of the almost stalwart Middie first string, Antrim took the ball on a reverse from Schmidt and raced around left end for a touchdown on the first play of the quarter. The Navy score proved to be the stroke necessary to change the nervous Wildcats into a formidable squad of gridiron warriors. It was a new team in spirit which received the Navy kick-off a few minutes later and found itself in possession of the ball on the Davidson 35-yard line. A forward-lateral pass, Williams to Lafferty to Dennis, completely fooled the Midshipmen. Dennis raced wide around left end, evaded two tacklers, and was brought down by the safety man after a 25-yard gain. On a fake buck into the line, Lafferty handed the ball back behind his back to Dennis, who circled the left end of the fooled Navy team.

Armfield Scores
On the 26-yard line, Lafferty faded back and attempted a pass. Two Navy linemen broke through to block the throw, but Teeny calmly sidestepped their rush and then lofted a perfect pass into the arms of Ed Armfield, standing across the goal line. Sample, who was rushed into the game for the try for extra point, failed to convert.

The third quarter was all Davidson. Coach Newton tipped the Wildcats to a defense for the Notre Dame shift employed by Navy, which stopped their running attack cold. The Wildcats' offense began to click also. Down the field went the scrappy ‘Cats who passed or ran for repeated long gains which kept the crowd on its feet shouting all the time and causing many apprehensive moments in the Navy cheering section.

Two School Physician Gives Physical Examination
The annual physical examinations for Davidson College students were held on September 15, 16, and 17. Dr. Wilson McConnell, college physician, was in charge. The first day and a half was taken up with the work on freshmen, while the remainder was given over to the upper-classmen.

At the first table, the boys filled out general information blanks as to their past diseases, vaccinations, known defects, etc. Then the general measurements, weight, height, followed. Eye, urinal, and skin tests came next. Last came the general examinations. In these, special attention was given to the condition of the heart and lungs. The purpose and advantages of these examinations are self-evident. The authorities are given information on the general health, thus enabling them to ascertain whether the student is able to carry a college course, and, if there happens to be any defects, to aid the boy in overcoming them.

Speedy Dependable Service
NORTON’S BARBER SHOP
Norton and Cidroam, Props.

BUFF SHOE SHOP
SHOE REPAIRING
“When It’s Done By Buff That’s Enuff”

Under-Grad
We're prepared
America’s smartest clothes!
TATE-BROWN College Shop
Third Floor

WE KNOW OUR STYLE LESSON
we've “crammed” for a week and now we're anxious to show you how well we know the answers to what's right for fall! Call on us... we'll show our style knowledge by showing you
$27.50 & $29.50
Two Trousers—Trousers Tailored with Talon
Clothes FOR FALL