THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 15, 1936

SENIORS AND SOPHOMORES WIN SOFTBALL TILTS

SPORTS AFIELD

ADDITIONAL STRUCTURE TO BE ADDED TO RICHARDSON FIELD

It seems it just won schedule spring sports hardy the ele- ver Georgia, Hampden-Sid- South Carolina, was beaten at The track team ney, by the Duke Blue Devils.

GOLF TEAM HOT

This golf team of our

CHOSEN

President Roosevelt Tosses Ball to Open Major League Season

ATHLETICS LOOK SLOW

Deans Promise New Records This Season

"Ball!" the cry heard yesterday after- noon over the country as big leaguers swung into openers. And it did his part started by tossing the pitcher's box for the Senators’ game with brothers, Dizzy led upon, will be right many fans are the Brook- burgh Pir- How- just beginning on behind season Wowhat will can the apps American League, every that his top of the like another big Tigers, who world se- rules are as follows:

1. Winter rules shall be observed (improve the lie of the ball in the fairway but use no wooden or other tees).
2. When a ball obstructs another player's shot, the obstructing ball shall be moved and its position marked. After the others have shot, this ball shall be replaced and played from its marked position.
3. The penalty for an unplayable lie in rough shall be one stroke.
4. Out of bounds shall be regarded as off the recognized property of the college.
5. A player may lay out of casual water without penalty.
6. Points shall be counted as one point for the final combined result. In nine-hole play, the result shall count as one point.
7. In low-ball play, the low score of each pair shall be counted, and points scored as in singles play.
8. In case of ties, another nine holes shall be played in the play-off.

ANOTHER TRIPLE, DOC

Last week Coach Newton was busy working on his freshman mound corps. Soon he was rushing out to the mound oftener and oftener in an effort to give his hurlers tips to help them stem the tide of the hitters’ heavy bats. Finally, he gave up in desperation and cried; “Every time I tell him something, somebody hits a triple.”

This department sincerely regrets the departure of Grier Martin for Atlanta. He has been a great help to this department, especially during football season. He has given us cooperation, encouragement, and even put himself out to ensure the students’ success. All the best qualified must drift from field to field until they reach the top, and the sports department confidently wishes that Grier Martin will soon reach this goal.

Bob Tissue, Davidson senior, was guest columnist of Wade Ison for The Charlotte News Sunday. He ably defended Dr. Frank Graham, besieged Carolina president and developer of the Graham plan, and he really turned out a great sports column.

That sophomore rally Monday would have warmed Horatio Alger’s heart. Behind 8-2 in the last half of the last inning, the second-year men tied up the score. After holding the juniors scoreless in the first half of the extra inning, the sophs scored and won on successive hits by Joe Thompson and George Gray.

This column will be conducted next week by Harry Kuykendall, sports editor this past year. Following that, Lamont Brown, editor of “The Davidsonian” this year, and sports editor last year, will again bend his hand to hammering out a “callyum.”

John Lee's done it again! He's broken his own pole vault record once more. In the meet against Duke, at Durham, Saturday, he raised the record from twelve feet five inches to twelve feet six. Captain Billy Merchant lost for the first time in four starts to Bill Morse in the two-mile run.

TIGERS AND BRUINS TO REPEAT

Tops Own Record

John Lee, Davidson's number one pole vaulter for the last three years, recently broke his own college record with a vault of 12 feet and 6 inches, topping his former record by one inch, at the meet against Duke held at Durham Saturday.

FROSH GOLF SQUAD IS CUT TO FIVE PLAYERS

Pittman Completes First Round Trials With 74

In the tryouts for the freshman golf team which were held on the local course last week, the squad was cut to five men who finished in the following order: Ray Pittman, Jack Tillotson, Mark Lillard, Tom Henderson, Tom Mullen. Pittman completed the 18-hole tryouts with a 74. A match was scheduled with the Charlotte high team for April 10, but it was forfeited by the Charlotte boys. The next match will be with Asheville high school Thursday, April 16, on the Charlotte Country Club course. Over the weekend, the freshman team will take a trip to Greensboro and Winston-Salem, playing the high schools of these two cities at times which are not as yet definite.

CAT BASEBALL TEAM WILL PLAY CATAWBA

Kittens Defeat Varsity 2-1 in Practice Game

The Davidson baseball team, which had been kept idle because of wet grounds, returned to action this afternoon against Catawba in Salisbury. Having made an unimpressive start this season, the Wildcats are pointing toward the return games at Duke, Friday and Saturday. A few minor changes have been made in their line-up, and the present roster shows that Captain Hank Loftin has been shifted to short and Asbury Howard has taken over the former's position in the hot corner. Fielding Clark has left the outfield and is now being groomed to pitch. He may prove a valuable addition to the hurling staff if expectations are fulfilled. These changes were necessitated by the absence of Yearwood and Quick, which resulted from the rule requiring higher grades for athletes participating in two sports in the same semester. The varsity played the frosh in practice, with the Kittens gaining a six-inning 2-1 verdict in their last encounter. Manager Benfield risks no statement at this time. The next home game will be on April 27, with U. N. C., here.

DUKE TRACK SQUAD SWAMPS WILDCATS

LEE, MERCHANT STAR

Davidson Captures But Twenty-Four Points in Fourteen Events

LEE TAKES LONE FIRST

Devils Take Majority of Events Saturday

The Davidson track varsity lost heavily to Duke University last Saturday, April 10, when the Wildcats trailed at the end of a 102-24 score. Thirteen out of fourteen events were captured by the Duke cindermen, with Lee winning the pole vault at 12 feet 6 inches for Davidson. Lee’s jump establishes another record in the pole vault annals of Davidson College. Lee raised the local mark to 12 feet 5 inches at Furman University early this spring. Huber Hanes of Duke scored twice, in the 100-yard dash and the broad jump, to be individual high scorer. Billy Merchant finished third in the two-mile run. Morse of Duke ran the race in the excellent time of 9:53. The half-mile run was finished in 2:03, and no Davidson man placed. Sweeps in three field events, high jump, broad jump, and shot put, boosted Duke's total. Wicker placed second and Dyerle third in the 120-yard high hurdles which were timed at 16.1 seconds. Barrow took third in the 220-yard low hurdles, run in 25.3, and third in the 220-yard dash also. The time on the 220 was 22.5 seconds. Other third places won by Davidson men were in the javelin by Johnston, in the discus by Tipton, in the 440-yard dash by Gregory, and the mile run by Parcell. The javelin was thrown 188 feet 2 inches by West. Pruitt won the mile in 4:47.6 and the discus was thrown 122 feet 8 inches. Pittman tied with Leidy of Duke in the pole vault, while Lee went on to win. Dickson ran the 100-yard dash which was timed at 10.3 seconds. The varsity will meet V. P. I. this Saturday. Maryville will be met April 25, and the state meet follows on May 2. The Wildcats have defeated Furman University, and lost to the University of South Carolina and Duke.

FROSH ENGAGE P.J.C. IN TRACK

Frosh to Meet V. P. I. Freshmen in Blacksburg

The track team arrived Monday night for their meet Tuesday afternoon with the Wildkittens on Richardson field. The freshmen are their first opponents this spring, and CoachH. T. Holliday said three more are on schedule with Hampden-Sydney, Emory and Henry, and Mars Hill. The Davidson won easily from Furman early in the season, and the meet with P.J.C. was their second. An engagement with Wofford last Thursday was cancelled after the Wofford track team reached Davidson because of rain.

SOPHOMORES DOWN JUNIORS IN MONDAY SOFTBALL CONTEST
Seniors Meet Sophs, Frosh Battle Juniors in Important Tilts

SENIORS TROUNCE FROSH
Seniors Hit Hard in Initial Softball Victory

In a slugfest last Wednesday afternoon, the senior baseball team swamped the frosh, 16-4. “Wild Bill” Benfield went the whole route on the mound for the seniors, while the freshmen used Iverson, Sample, and Tice, all of whom seemed to have trouble in finding the plate and issued numerous free trips to first base.

The contest started auspiciously for the thirty-niners as Billy Johnson, first man up, smashed a home run to deep center field. Then Iverson singled, but Benfield settled down and took care of the next three men in order. When the seniors came in to bat, the fun began in earnest as they made four runs. However, most of their tallies were due to miscues by the frosh, rather than their ability to hit. “Boo” Walker at first, Cage Brewer in right field, and Billy Johnson behind the plate fielded well, but the rest of the team was woefully deficient in this all-important department of play. For the seniors, First Baseman Bob Lindsay and Catcher Smith were outstanding in the field.

In a closely contested game, which was tied at the end of the seventh inning and went into one extra period for a play-off, the sophomores managed to eke out a 9-8 victory over the hard-fighting juniors last Monday afternoon. Taking the lead at the beginning of the game, the Centennials managed to hold it until the last inning when the sophomores brought the play to a tie at 8-8. “Willie” Vause held the juniors scoreless in the first half of the extra period. In the final inning, Joe Thompson hit a two-bagger. The next man up, Hunter, slammed out a home run, supplying the winning score.

For the Centennials, Pitcher Joe Gray, First-Baseman Arthur Cooke, and Shortstop Johnny Armstrong starred. Vause on the mound, Lawrence Reed at short, and Gray at center-field furnished the spark for the soph team. The intra-mural baseball program for this week is as follows: Tuesday—seniors vs. sophomores and juniors vs. freshmen. This will complete one round of play as each team will have played every other team once. After another round, the aggregation that has made the most points will be declared champions.

Seniors, Juniors Lead In Intramural Sports

With the seniors leading in the intramural sports competition, the program is now entering its last three events, baseball, golf, and tennis. The seniors have 85 points; the juniors are second with 60; the sophomores have 57 1-2, and the freshmen trail with 47 1-2.

LINKSMEN CAPTURE THREE GOLF MEETS

CAT BASKETBALL TEAM TO TRAVEL TO FLORIDA

According to present plans, the basketball team is planning tentatively to make a trip to Florida just before Christmas holidays next year. Coach Laird plans to have an early start due to a spring basketball practice and an early session next fall at the conclusion of the regular football season. The team will be in good shape to open its regular schedule early, and tentative plans call for a trip south to last until the start of the holidays. Rollins, Florida, and some of the other southern schools will be met on this trip. Varsity lettermen Quick, Peabody, Knorr, Barrow, Reid, Armstrong, Hancock, and Kiesewetter will return from this year’s team. Yearwood, Cathey, Moyer, and Bankhead are the reserves returning; while Ned Tice, Boyd, Sloan, Lee, Gaw, Iverson, and “Swede” Johnson will come up from the frosh ranks to seek berths.

FRESHMEN ARRANGE SIX COURT MATCHES
First Match Played With Winston-Salem

The freshman tennis team left the campus Monday morning to go to Winston-Salem, where they met the high school team in a match that afternoon. The qualifying tournament has been held up by the rainy weather and is still in the quarter-finals. A team consisting of Wilson Northcross, Ken Lawson, Locke White, George Jones, and Bill Marquess was chosen to make the trip. A match with Darlington to have been played last Thursday, April 9, was cancelled because of the bad weather. The schedule for the season includes matches with Presbyterian Junior College here on April 14, Winston-Salem high here on April 24, and Blue Ridge here on April 28. Tentative arrangements have been made for two matches with Charlotte high later in the spring.

The R. J. Reynolds high school in Winston-Salem downed the Wildkitten netmen by a score of 6-1. The only match that ended with Davidson on the long end of the score was the number two doubles in which Jones and White defeated Shore and Moyer in three sets. In his match with Northcross, Rawlings of Winston-Salem exhibited the brand of tennis that won him the state high school championship last year. Playing with beautiful consistency, he breezed through the match without the loss of a game. Match scores were as follows: Rawlings (W-S) beat Northcross, 6-0, 6-0. Croom (W-S) beat Lawson 6-2, 6-3. Hahn (W-S) beat White 7-5, 6-4. Dixon (W-S) beat Jones 6-2, 6-2. Shores (W-S) beat Marquess 6-2, 6-3. Rawlings and Croom (W-S) beat Northcross and Lawson 6-0, 6-2. White and Jones (D) beat Shore and Moyer 6-4, 2-6, 10-8.

Defeat Georgia, South Carolina, Hampden-Sydney; Lose to Furman
ROSS, McCLELLAND STAR
Meet Catawba, Carolina, Wofford This Week

The Davidson varsity golf team won three out of the four golf matches played last week over the Carolina Charlotte course. The Wildcats won decisive victories over the University of Georgia, the University of South Carolina, and Hampden-Sydney, and were defeated only by Furman by a one-point margin. The Georgia match was played under very unfavorable conditions over a wet course. Davidson defeated the University of Georgia by a score of 14-4. The points of the match went as follows: Cowan (D) 2 over Fahy 1, McClelland (D) 3 over Sage 0, Ross (D) 3 over Little 0, Snow (D) 2 over Hodgson 1, Ross-Cowan (D) 3 over Sage-Fahy 0, and Snow-McClelland (D) 3 over Little-Hodgson 0.

In the South Carolina match, McClelland of Davidson was medalist with a 75, five strokes under par. Ross of Davidson was close behind with a 76. The scores of this match were as follows: Ross (D) 3 over Tobias 0, DeLoach 2 1-2 over Cowan (D) 1-2, McClelland (D) 3 over Bruner 0, Snow (D) 1 1-2 tied with White 1 1-2, Ross-Cowan (D) 3 over Tobias-DeLoach 0, and McClelland-Snow (D) 2 1-2 over Brunner-White 1-2.

The Wildcats lost only one match by a score of 8 1-2 to 9 1-2 to Furman. The match was played on a wet ground. Ross of Davidson was the medalist of the day with a 71. The points of this match were as follows: Ferguson 3 over Snow (D) 0, Dawson 3 over McClelland (D) 0, Dawson-Ferguson 2 1-2 over Snow-McClelland (D) 1-2, Ross (D) 3 over Rogers 0, Cowan (D) 2 over (Continued on Page 6)

REMEMBER ... You Always Save at Belk Brothers!

MEN'S GABARDINE SUITS

by the changeable weather, but practice has been going on for many weeks. Several seasoned boys are running in the squad who have been out since the end of February. The hundred yard dash and the 220 are represented by Johnny Tice and Frank Harrison. These boys also run the low hurdles for Davidson. The 440 yard dash is run by Abbott and Lutz. The mile and the half are run by Walker, Woodward, Wilson, Webb, and several others. The field events have McClelland in the discus and Warden in the shot put. Johnson and Boyd throw the javelin and take part in the other events. C. W. Sample, Rice, and Jacoby Sample are out for the pole vault, and C. W. Sample high jumps. Tice broad jumps for the Wildkittens. The team is well-balanced with material in every event.

CHARLOTTE, N. C.
FAUL AND CRYMES, INC.
SPORTING GOODS
415 SOUTH TRYON ST.

Two first places in an event give a class 20 points, so that all classes are still well in the running. Monday, the juniors and sophomores clashed in softball. (Continued on Page 6)

At Greenville, the freshmen scored in every event to make their total of 64 to 44. Saturday, the team travels with the varsity to Blacksburg, Va. to meet the V. P. I. freshmen. On April 25, the Maryville freshmen are scheduled, and the state meet takes place on May 2. A meet with Charlotte high may be arranged as in former years.

SUMMER POSITIONS
Excellent opportunity to finance your college education. Work is educational in nature. Reliable Company. $5.00 to $10.00 a day easily made. Write for proof of results and full details immediately.
COLLEGE DEPARTMENT
1010 Arch St., Philadelphia

Sodas
MAKE OUR STORE YOUR STORE
White Drug Store
Davidson's Oldest and Best
Prescriptions

IN THE NEWEST SPORTS STYLES!
$19.45

Some of the smartest suits for summer wear! And note Belk’s attractive prices! You'll find single and double-breasted models in the smartest browns, grays, greens, tan or blue!

MEN'S SUITS—STREET FLOOR
BELK’S
CHARLOTTE, N. C.