THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 26, 1936

HONOR ROLL

IVERSON AND TICE PICKED AS FROSH BASKETBALL STARS FOR THIS WEEK BY BUDDY NEWTON

SPORTS AFIELD HONOR ROLL

KEN KNORR & MAURICE PEABODY CHOSEN AS VARSITY BASKETBALL STARS THIS WEEK BY HERB WILLIS

By HARRY KUYKENDALL

Davidson's “good ole ship o’ fortune,” with a cargo of unforeseen athletic destinies aboard, will weigh anchor and put to sea next fall with a new but experienced pilot at the helm. For those who do not know Norman Shepard, we can best picture him from a tribute paid by two distinguished men who speak from the advantage of intimate acquaintance. “First, he honestly says what he really thinks about his prospects. No covering up. No undue effort to look good—because he later produced an undefeated eleven. Second—a refreshing philosophy of sports—a depth of perception. Shepard is a good coach but, more than that, he is a man with both feet on the ground and with a sound outlook on life.” Here's what the President of Randolph-Macon says of Norman: “Shepard’s loss would (he was speaking before Shepard had accepted the post of Athletic Director) be almost irreparable. In fact, some of our alumni have just told me that they think we ought to give up sports if we lose Mr. Shepard. It is hard to imagine what the College would be like without him.”

STARDUST

By Abbitt and Peabody

Stars fell over the Charlotte Armory Monday night, but that was not all that fell—a number of indoor records capitulated before the onslaught of Williamson, Mothershead, and a host of other noteworthy luminaries. Earl Frazier, former star distance runner for Davidson and holder of two state records, was on hand to give the local cinder artists a hand. Earl stated that he was working with the Duke Power Co., in Charlotte, and liked his job fine. Asked whether he would ever return to Davidson he replied “no chance.” Ivan Mothershead, leading distance runner in the Southern Conference, when asked about Virginia Tech’s track team this year, replied that it would be the best we've ever had if two of our best men hadn’t busted out of school. When reminded of his run against Frazier here last year, the Virginia star smilingly said “Guess I was lucky that day.” Captain Pritchett, former Athletic Director here, was another celebrity who paid the Jay-Cees a visit. Captain Pritchett seemed to be well pleased with the showing of Merchant and also pointed out that Hickman, a freshman here, ought to go places. Asked about the Southern Conference, Pritchett added that it would help Davidson “in a great many ways”—although he believes some of the regulations will have to be altered. Following the meet Monday night, several trackmen of note were asked to make a statement through the mike. Mokey Faison’s will bear repeating because of the howl of laughter it caused. Said he “Very fast company out there and I mean to tell you, it was plenty hard work bringing in third.” (There were only three teams entered). Billy Merchant “I'm very happy.”

ODDS 'N ENDS

Coach Unger is planning a trip to Bermuda - - - Bailey Williams is being groomed for a large part of the punting for next fall - - - Ellis, frosh wrestler, was the only member of that team undefeated throughout the season - - - Lowest pun of the season: “It is thought that Carolina’s courtmen have slipped along much easier since the coming of Skidmore” - - - “Swede” Johnson was the fastest man in the Cats mile relay Monday night - - - Carlyle Lewis has secured a job in Greensboro for the summer as director of tennis in the City Recreation program - - - Billy Merchant is our pick for the most outstanding member of the Davidson track team in the Jay-Cee meet. Bill took those 24 laps around the Armory in fine style and with plenty of speed - - - Paul Pittman made a pretty good showing in the pole vault event - - - Charlie Fort, former star Davidson athlete, is now coaching the Winston-Salem “Y” grapplers. It was his men that so decisively defeated the frosh - - - John Lee repeated his feat of taking first in the pole vault - - - Interesting spectacle at the meet — Grady Cole and his case of “Jitters.” Shine: Jake Morrow’s broadcast over WBT.

CATS LOSE ALL THREE GAMES TO VA. TEAMS ON ROAD TRIP

V. M. I., Virginia and V. P. I. Overcome Cagemen By Identical Margin

DEACONS DEFEAT ’CATS

Thrilling Contest Is Lost In Closing Minutes

By CHARLES TRE

The luckless Wildcats last week were downed three times by Virginia basketball teams, each time by a five-point margin, losing to V. M. I., 37-32; Virginia, 33-28; and V. P. I., 35-30. Davidson meets the Tar Heels tonight at seven-thirty in the Davidson gym.

Davidson 28; Virginia 33

The Cavaliers kept the somewhat disorganized Davidson team through the contest and emerged victorious. Shomo was high for the night with thirteen points while Bill Hancock had nine for Davidson.

Davidson 30; V. P. I. 35

It was much the same story in the game against V. P. I. The Gobblers came very lucky and protected an early lead against a belated Wildcat rally which cut the margin from ten points to one. Day and Henry scored last-minute goals to account for the five-point margin. Captain Peabody was held to one point, but scored 21 on the trip. The ever-dependable Bill Quick was third high scorer for the three nights, with 15 points.

Davidson 23; Wake Forest 26

The Davidson Wildcat five was defeated last Saturday night, February 22, by Wake Forest Deacons. The Wildcats led with the scoring through most of the game, finally dropping the game to the visitors. Chapell and Mauney scored a field goal each, giving the Deacons a lead of three points. Maurice Peabody of Davidson was the high scorer of the game, with seven points to his credit; Ken Knorr came a close second with six points.

KITTENS LOSE FINAL TILT TO WAKE FOREST

Freshmen Win From Lees-McRae Junior College; Iverson High Scorer

The Davidson Wildkittens defeated the Lees-McRae Junior College cagers and lost to Wake Forest freshmen last week in the last games of their season. On Thursday the score was 49-25 as Lees-McRae fell under the freshman attack, while Wake Forest took a return engagement 41-26 Saturday night. Davidson led the way throughout the first game. Iverson scored 20 points of the Wildkitten total, and Tice followed with 10. At the half the score stood at 19-13 with Lees-McRae behind. During the second period Tice and Johnson added to the rising score with field goals and foul shots. Brown and Sloof entered the game at guard. Lee and Monie alternated with Iverson at center. McCulloch and Steele were substitute forwards in the last half. The freshmen’s careful and accurate work gave them the larger lead at the end of 49-25.

CAT TRACK STARS FACE TOUGH SCHEDULE IN ’36

Pete Whittle, Davidson track coach, has announced the schedule for the 1936 season. It reads as follows: March 7—Carolina at Chapel Hill (indoor meet). March 25—Furman at Greenville. April 4—South Carolina at Davidson. April 11—Duke at Durham. April 18—V. P. I. at Blacksburg. April 25—Maryville at Davidson. May 2—State Meet at Chapel Hill. Besides these meets, Davidson was represented by nine entries in the Charlotte Indoor Invitation Meet held last Monday night.

CAT TRACKMEN BEGIN TRAINING

Large Number of Candidates Report to Coach Whittle For Practice

The Davidson track season opened auspiciously on Monday as, with clear skies and spring-like weather, a large number of candidates in each event turned out for practice.of the 41-26 score. The foremost of these are: 100-yard dash—Walter Dickson, “Mokie” Faison, “Tip” Harrison. The same men will be in the 220-yard dash. 440-yard dash—“Swede” Johnson, Bob Gregory, “Coot” Gladden, Charlie Bixler. 880-yard run—Archie Shuford, Billy Fraley, Frank Pharr. Mile run—Bill Bell, Lloyd Feuchtenberger, Roy Gilks. Two-mile run—Bill Merchant (captain), Frank Brown, Bruce Parcell. High hurdles—Munro Wicker, Bill Deyerle, Frank Parker. Low hurdles—Wade Barrow, Wicker, Deyerle, Parker. High jump—Dickson, Barrow, John Lee. Broad jump—Sam Milton, Dickson, Morris Peabody. Pole vault—Lee, Paul Pittman, Leonard Fort. Shot put—“Big Six” Johnston, Dick Johnston, Willie Vause. Discus throw—George Tipton, Dick Johnston, Vause. Javelin throw—John Pearce, Jim Johnston, Bancroft Mosely.

Davidson lost an early lead when Waller began converting points and making field goals—he was responsible for 17 of Wake Forest's points when the half ended with Wake Forest leading 23-17. During the first minutes of play, Davidson held the score low. Vice and Iverson led a vigorous attack that surprised the Deacon freshmen. However, Waller's stellar playing broke through Davidson's tight defense.

In the second period, Wake Forest forged ahead with a spirited attack, and only near the end did the Wildkittens rally. There were 25 fouls called during the scrappy play, but less than half of the free throws were successful. Davidson’s lineup was the same as in the Lees-McRae game with Sloan, Brown, McCulloch, and Monie substituting.

(Continued on Page 6)

FOR STUFFY HEAD
A few drops up each nostril reduces swollen membranes, clears away clogging mucus, brings welcome relief.
Vicks VA-TRO-NOL 30¢ double quantity 50¢

WIN A CHEVROLET!
ASK FOR DETAILS ABOUT THE DR. WEST CONTEST AT White Drug Store

Wildcat Matmen Meet U.N.C. Grapplers Here
Blackwelder, Hodg Hodgin, Parker Star as Wildcats Lose Wrestling Title
STATE CINCHES TITLE
Wolfpack Wrestlers Have Perfect Conference Record

The University of North Carolina varsity wrestlers and Davidson College varsity matmen will grapple here at 7:30 tonight. The best mat threats of the visitors are Umstead (126 lbs.), Bonner (155 lbs.), captain of the Tar Heel team, Williams (165 lbs.), and Gwyn (175 lbs.). The North Carolina matmen come here fresh from a 16-14 victory over the Blue Devil wrestlers of Duke University. The grapplers will meet the Maryville wrestling team here next Saturday night at 7:30.

Davidson lost their championship by a 15 to 9 count against N.C. State in an unusually close title match. It was the third consecutive setback for the Cats who had piled up four impressive back-to-back victories before their winning streak was ended by Virginia Polytech. Coach Dave Morrah’s boys lost but one match this season, that to the strong V.M.I. outfit and Southern Conference titleholders. By their win over the Cats, the State grapplers have undisputed claim to the Big Five title.

The summary:
(118)—Cheslock, State, defeated Blue in an extra period with a 1:58 time advantage.
(126)—Bridges, State, defeated Hansel by a time advantage of 7:47.
(135)—Parker, Davidson, defeated Captain Krach after one extra period with a time advantage of 2:43.
(145)—Shimer, State, defeated Owen in an extra period by a time advantage of 2:43.
(155)—Troxler, State, defeated Bixler by a time advantage of 7:40.
(165)—McLaughlin, State, defeated McFadyen by a time decision of 2:29 after an extra period.
(175)—Captain Blackwelder, Davidson, defeated Thompson by a time advantage of 8:40.
(Unlimited)—Hodgin, Davidson, defeated Plagter by a time advantage of 9:31.

GYM TEAM IN EXHIBITION AT DEACON GAME
Team Composed of Ten Men Shows Skill in Display Of Daring Acts

Davidson’s corps of gymnastics extraordinary gave their second exhibition of flying skill since the holidays during the half of the Wake Forest-Davidson basketball game last Saturday night. With machine-like precision, ten white-clad figures performed weird leaps and bounds which gave proof of the perfect balance possessed by these performers. Before the crowd had finished applauding one act, the next was in the process of unfolding.

Last Saturday night’s team was composed of the following men: Jack B. Green, Harris, J. W. Hickman, Jerry Elmore, Holt, Pete McKnight, Gordon Smith, Don Stewart, John Templeton, and Gene Vogler. The whole exhibition took less than ten minutes but those ten were packed with demonstrations of balance, skill, and coordination. It was greatly enjoyed by the audience. The team is under the leadership of Pete Whittle and Gordon Smith, last year’s gymnastic champion.

The team is composed of a group of the best men in the Physical Education classes. The men have practiced hard and long all year to put on the flying, hair-raising acts. They deserve a lot of credit for the pleasing and talented performance.

New Jersey is one of the few states in the Union which has neither a medical nor a dental school.

DAVIDSON MEN TAKE HONORS IN CHARLOTTE JAYCEE MEET
John Lee and Billy Merchant Cop Leading Honors For Wildcats
NEW RECORDS MADE
Relay Team Is Awarded Medals For Mile Run

The south’s leading athletes converged upon the Charlotte Armory Monday night and set new Jay-Cee Indoor records in the 50-yard dash, 1000-yard run, 880-yard dash, 50-yard high hurdles, and the high jump. John Lee and Billy Merchant, senior members of Davidson's varsity track team, took major field honors for the ‘cats with Lee tying with three other stars for first place in the pole vault and Merchant taking a close second in the two-mile, barely being nosed out by Morse of Duke. Lee, who attained a height of 12.2 feet in winning last year’s event, cleared the crossbar at 11.6 but couldn't add any additional height. His attempt at breaking the tie at 12 feet appeared to be successful for a breathtaking second but the bar finally fell through.

The Wildcat’s relay team placed third for the only other Davidson honors of the meet. The team was composed of “Swede” Johnson, Mokie Faison, J. W. Hickman, and Bob Gregory.

Summary:
Barrett mile—won by Williamson of Carolina; second, Mothershead (V.P.I.); third, Hendricks (N.C.). Time: 4 minutes 36.3 seconds.
1000-yard run—tie between Montgomery (N.C.) and Rosser (N.C.). Time: 2 minutes 21.1 seconds.
50-yard dash—Hopkins (Va.), first; Packard (Ga.), second; Ritter (Duke), third. Time: 5.4 seconds.
880-yard dash—Mothershead (V.P.I.), first; Gardner (N.C.), second; Drake (N.C.), third. Time: 2 minutes 5.1 seconds.
50-yard high hurdles—Towns (Ga.), first; Schuhle (S.I.L.), second; Pettit (S.C.), and Arnold (Ga.) tied for third. Time: 6.5 seconds.
Pole vault—tie between Lee of Davidson, Leidy of Duke, Call of Virginia, and Bear of Carolina. Height: 11 feet, 6 inches.
Two-mile run—Morse (Duke), first; Merchant of Davidson, second; Daniels (N.C.), third. Time: 10 minutes, 29.9 seconds.
Shot put—Williams (Duke), first; Juliber (N.C.), second, 41 feet and 1 inch; Kraushaar (Duke), third, 39 feet, 9 inches.
High jump—Rollins (Wake Forest), first, 5 feet, 11 and one-eighth inch; Bannon (N.C.), second, 5 feet, 10 inches; Arnold (Ga.), third with 5 feet, 7 inches.
Jay-Cee mile relay—Duke (3 minutes, 45.6 seconds); Carolina, second; Davidson, third.

Officials—Starter and Referee: Capt. Norton Pritchett; Clerk of Course: Coach Heath Whittle.

Davidson Football Men Will Start Spring Practice

Spring football practice got underway last week on a soggy field with about half of the expected number of men present. The others were recovering from colds and various other winter afflictions. Two scrimmages were held to give the coaches a line on some of the freshmen and “B” squad players. Coach Newton has been using Captain Dick Johnson at tackle since the workouts began; if he can deliver, the loss of Freeman will not be so keenly felt. Spencer Goodman shows promise of being one of the regular tackles next fall. Coaches Newton and McEver have a number of small guards battling it out to see which four or five will be selected for next year’s campaign.

In the backfield, Sears, a 140-lb. atom, has been showing up well as a ball carrier, along with “Teeny” Lafferty. Davidson appears now to have one of the lightest teams in its history in prospect for next season with the line weighing less than 175 lbs. and the backfield about 160 lbs. per man. They will be more mobile, however, and may look better on the field than prospects indicate.