NEW STADIUM IS DEDICATED
The Mavidsonian
ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

PRAYING COLONELS TO MEET WILDCATS

VOL. XXIV DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., NOVEMBER 11, 1936 NO. 8

HOMECOMING DANCES ARE GREAT SUCCESS; JIMMY POYNER PLAYS
Beautiful Girls From Adjoining States Make Dance Set Best Ever
MANY ALUMNI ATTEND
Impressive Figure Presented At Formal Dance

One of the most popular Davidson College Homecoming dance sets ever to be presented took place last Friday and Saturday night in the capacious Charlotte Armory. A bevy of beautiful girls and their escorts danced to the sparkling music of Jimmy Poyner and his noted State College orchestra, who presented all the newest tunes in his fine manner. The girls were described by many as the most beautiful group ever assembled at Davidson, and the various fraternities contributed the majority of these. The following are the fraternities and their girls:

BETA THETA PI
Marilyn Brittain, Alice Cowles Barringer, Jane Holman, Sybil Searcy, Nell Abbott, Hannah Knowlton, Nancy Isenhour, and Betty F. Martin from Charlotte; Ethel Anne Hutcherson, Reidsville; Leanora Gamble, and Mary Flor- Lincolnton; Grace Hambrick, Lili Smith, Frances Barnhardt, Concord; Moore, Wilmington, and Little of Gastonia, N. C.

KAPPA ALPHA
Martha Mary McBrayer, Dell and Johnston of Gainesville, Ga.; Janice Pi Jean Brooks, Sutherland, Charlotte; Jane Holt of Staunton, Va.; Mary Brawley, Banner Elk; Kitty Mt. Holly; Sarah Collins College, Va.; Dot Jean Simmons and Nitty Agnes Hoffman, Rice, Avice Stewart, Albemarle; Lib Lambeth, High Point; Helen De Vane, Davidson; Anna French, Statesville; Caddie Willis, Concord.

KAPPA ALPHA: Misses Elizabeth Charlotte; Foster, (Continued on Page 2)

REV. W. M. ELLIOT LEADS “Y" SERVICES
Atlanta Minister Stresses the Need of Jesus Christ In Our Lives

The Rev. W. M. Elliott, Jr., pastor of the Druid Hills Presbyterian church in Atlanta, Ga., conducted the annual “Y” Fall Services last week in a series of five meetings held last Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday. For the opening service on Tuesday evening, Mr. Elliott took as his text Timothy II 1:12 with the exhortation that he came to speak not of religion in general but of Jesus Christ in particular. “Is Jesus Christ real to you?” was his challenging question upon which he based the principal part of his sermon. He brought out the fact that although one might be a sincere and professed church Christian, Christ was not necessarily real to one. The important point was not so much what one believed but whom one believed.

At the hour Wednesday morning, as he would be called, “Bill” Elliott made an eloquent plea to the students to have the courage to be different. He based his words on the 14th verse of the 24th chapter of Joshua: “As for me and my house, we will serve the Lord.” He emphasized the fact that in this day it is extremely difficult to be different.

“The Business of Being a Christian” was the topic Wednesday evening and the text was Matthew 16:24. The first idea developed by Mr. Elliott was that to be a real Christian you must have Christ as the supreme ruler in your personality. He cautioned that the process of surrendering self is long and (Continued on Page 2)

Lingle Plan Adopted North Carolina Colleges
DR. T. W. LINGLE

Dr. T. W. Lingle served as chairman of the committee which drew up the Lingle Plan, recently adopted by the North Carolina College Conference.

Le Cercle Francais Sponsors Lecturer, Viscount of Mon- tozon-Brachet
INTRODUCED BY WINN
“Student Life in France” and “The Red Movement” Are Topics

The Viscount of Monto- zon-Brachet gave a lecture in French in the Chambers auditorium last Monday night at eight o'clock. The subject was “Student Life in France” and “The Red Movement.” The lectures were very slow and hotly contested.

Four men, out of the third round of the tournament, are: Ezell, Pennington, Scarborough, and Edwards. The winner of the tournament last year was Johnson. The Freshman tennis team each year holds a tournament to find the talent in the freshman class and also to find the prospects for the sophomore class. The winner of the present tournament is held in high regard.

Dr. Tew, Lingle Is Chairman of Group Appointed by Conference
PLAN SETS UP IDEALS
Committee's Work Antedates Graham Plan

The Lingle plan was adopted by the North Carolina College Conference at its annual meeting in Greensboro last Friday. Dr. T. W. Lingle, professor of history at Davidson, was chairman of the group that drew up the plan. The Lingle plan is not a legislative act that would eliminate professionalism in college athletics, but it is a statement of the ideals which, in the opinion of the committee, the North Carolina College Conference should strive to achieve. The committee was appointed to draw up such a plan three years ago. The committee interviewed leading officials in the colleges of the state in an effort to express the consensus of opinion. The plan antedated the Graham plan and was not in connection with it. The difference between the two plans lies mainly in the placing of responsibility. The Lingle plan puts the powers in the hands of the leaders in the conference instead of depending on student examinations and cross-questions.emphasized in the Graham plan. The fate of the Graham plan will be decided at the meeting of the Southern Conference in Richmond, Virginia, on December 11 and 12. J. M. Roberts, Jr., of the Associated Press, has been inquiring as to the attitudes of the various institutions in regard to this plan. But regardless of the fate of the Graham plan, the Lingle plan will still stand as a statement of the ideals.

BAND MASCOT
Vernon Clark Lassiter, Jr., 3-year-old mascot of the Davidson College band, clearly showed his abilities as drum major at the game last Saturday.

ROMANS HONORARY MILITARY GROUP PLEDGES SIX
Scabbard and Blade Plans to Elect Associate and Honorary Members

Cadet 1st Lieutenant Ha, Company “B.” It is planned to associate Thomas A. O. (Military) and H. F. (Military).

QUEENS GIRLS TO CHEER
Pretty Queens-Chicora students from Davidson's sister college in Charlotte will serve as cheerleaders for the Centre game in Charlotte on Saturday.

“Religion in Shoes” Is Subject of Sermon by West Virginia Pastor

FRATS BEGIN PICTURES
The photographers from Dunbar and Daniels of Raleigh will be back on the Davidson campus next week, completing the photographic work for the 1937 edition of Quips and Cranks. During their visit here, they will take pictures and finish the individual and fraternity group portrait work begun on their last visit several weeks ago. The fraternity pictures this year will probably be taken on the fraternity court, instead of in front of Chambers building as last year.

Davidson is Host to Many During Active Weekend
O. D. K. SPEAKER ALL
Band, Football Team, and Frosh Track Team Perform On Saturday
HEELS CONQUER
Pan-Hellenic Dance Is Climax To Home-Coming

A large number of alumni returned to their alma mater on Saturday to celebrate the hundredth Homecoming event. The band played a concert for the alumni immediately after the track meet. The Freshman track team ran a cross-country event against Lees-McRae. The band played a concert for the alumni immediately after the track meet. The football team met the Carolina team, and the Tar Heels conquered Davidson 6-0. Two bands, one on the field and one in the stands, added to the excitement. Not only the alumni but also the students enjoyed the events.

Pharr Calls Upon All to Witness for Christ

FRENCH FRATERNITY PLEDGES EIGHT MEN
M. le Vicomte de Montozon-Brachet Is Guest of Honor At Meeting

Mr. Joe Johnston, principal speaker at the O.D.K. initiation, introduced the following new members of O.D.K.

DR. LINGLE EXPRESSES THANKS TO BROTHERS FOR GIFT OF STADIUM
Homecoming Day Selected As Occasion for Acceptance Address
CROWD FILLS STADIUM
Benefactors Built First Section in 1926

Dr. Lingle, president of Davidson College, publicly thanked Mr. Lunsford and Mr. Richardson for the new addition to the stadium. He said, “Friends, if you will give me your attention for two minutes or less, I wish to express my appreciation to Mr. Richard Lunsford and Mr. Richardson for the handsome addition to our Davidson College stadium. I think it appropriate to express our appreciation not only on behalf of the college but also on behalf of the entire Davidson community.”

SIGMA PHI EPSILON TAKES LOVING CUP
Kappa Sigma and Phi Gamma Delta Place Second and Third In Contest