Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN. WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 16, 1936

The Davidsonian
Founded By the Class of 1915

1936 Member 1937
Associated Collegiate Press
Distributors of Collegiate Digest

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON Ave. New York, N.Y.
CHICAGO - BOSTON - SAN FRANCISCO
LOS ANGELES - PORTLAND - SEATTLE

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879

JIM MORTON
R. H. ROBINSON
EDITORS

EDITORIAL STAFF
Managing Editor Owen Cooke
Managing Editor Sam Cothran
Managing Editor Euclid Fant
Sports Editor Harry Kuykendall
Associate Editor Howell Overton
Associate Editor Harold Sugg
Associate Editor Daymond Turner
Associate Editor John Winn
Associate Editor Sam Ryburn
Art Editor Fitz Dade
Copy Reader

BUSINESS STAFF
Wilson Lowrance Circulation Manager
Ralph Chandler Circulation Manager
Charles Moore Collection Manager
Advertising Manager T.J. Hill
Asst. Business Manager

Enthusiasm is the height of man; it is from the human to the divine the passing Emerson.

We express our sincerest sympathy to Phil Friberg in the recent loss of his father.

HAVE YOU CONSIDERED ... the proposed additions to the constitution? Objections regarding Freshman governing have been raised in some quarters
as to the effect of Part Three of the amendment which states that the governing body for the Freshman class
will be called the Freshman Committee. The name is incidental, having been chosen at random, and its actions will be
the same, even if you name it Queens-Chicora Humane Relations Society. Rules and regulations in effect now will continue to
operate. Another point of dispute is that a Davidson tradition (Court of Control) is being annihilated. We would be the
last to advocate annihilating any of our prized traditions, but as you perhaps know, the Court of Control was installed
only a few years ago, thus eliminating it from the category of a tradition. A final decision will be rendered
Friday on this amendment, which appears to be a decided improvement over the present system, as it tends to unify
the Student Body.

DEEP NIGHT... We urge the college administration to furnish candles to the inhabitants of West, North, and South dormitories. It
is a self-evident fact that the modern college student requires approximately twice as much current as did his older brother,
say even five years ago. Radios are now regarded as a necessity in most quarters, electric razors and other appliances
are rapidly approaching the same category. Under such conditions, our present wiring system is woefully inadequate. Within the past few
weeks, a condition has arisen which makes it necessary to “do something about” the already overloaded circuit which serves the
above dormitories. The simplest solution seems to be to put North and South on a separate circuit. If this is
not feasible, by all means, give ’em candles! Or the excuse of the occupants of these dormitories from preparing their
classes. Three times in the past week, lights in these dorms have gone out and remained definitely out for an
hour.

ASIDES... As the Alumni Journal comes out, the Graham Plan goes out. But the Alumni Journal is a whooping success,
with pictures of the proposed building for Davidson in three colors, alumni notes, football chatter, and history of successful Davidson
graduates. Dr. Frank Graham, supposed author of the Graham Plan, has faced much undue criticism for a Utopian set-up for
football, which he did not compose but heartily favored. His only mistake was that he allowed his name to be
tacked to it. Many of the authors withdrew from the field when the going was hot, and Dr. Graham could
have followed suit, except for the fact that he had too much courage.

THE DAVIDSONIAN WISHES THE STUDENT BODY A MERRY CHRISTMAS AND A HAPPY NEW YEAR...

Tolerance... What is the mark of a truly educated man? Such a one must have kept his intellectual integrity, of
course, but above all, he must have genuine respect and consideration for the opinions of others. Just as someone has
defined freedom of speech as “not the right to say anything you please, but the right to assume responsibility for
what you have said,” so we may regard TOLERANCE not as the right to agree with all comers, but the
privilege of disagreeing amicably with those whose ideas fail to coincide with our own. If education does not bring home
to us this fact that there are other points of view, that these may be rational, even right, it has
failed in its purpose. A so-called “liberal arts” college like Davidson can justify its existence only so long as its
students are taught to think, to compare and evaluate critically the conflicting opinions of an unsettled world. It is so
easy to get into an intellectual rut, to accept literally the words of the text or the biased pronouncements of
a brilliant teacher, that we sometimes lose sight of the “raison d'être” and sell our intellectual birthright for a mess
of didactic potage. Only the weak fear criticism. The strong are invariably helped by it. The government which refuses to
allow itself to be criticized, by that very action, not only admits the criticism is valid, but proves its inability
to cope with it. There are two sides to every question and he who fails to consider both of them
runs grave danger of a fall.

Patronize Them... Do you read The Davidsonian? Maybe not all of us would admit it, but each of us reads
it regularly in whole or in part. This was evidenced by the number of inquiries that came in recently when
the paper appeared a day late. There are very few students who would not miss the paper if it ceased
to appear entirely. Have you ever stopped to think what makes The Davidsonian possible, how it is financed? As with
practically every other college publication, it is OUR ADVERTISERS who are responsible for the continued publication of the paper. They
are interested enough in Davidson College to support its publications; we should be interested enough in them to give their
products and commodities first choice when we do our buying. The day of complimentary advertising is past. The advertiser today
wants concrete results from his ads, and who can blame him? If he gets results, he will continue to advertise;
if not, he will drop out. It is up to us to furnish those results; if we do, it will
reflect in a bigger and better paper, of greater interest to all. So read the ads! And give OUR ADVERTISERS
the opportunity to serve you! For a better Davidson!

Campus Comments
Musical organizations on the campus—the Band especially—have attained an importance which did not exist four years ago; their progress is
significant. But at the same time, they are hampered by an unfair and useless ruling which prevents members from dropping
out, no matter how strong their reasons may be. A member of the Band, for example, is required to attend
all its practices and functions for the whole year, even though he finds after the first two weeks that he
hasn’t the time for it (in which case he is asked to drop one of his subjects or be campused)
or that he simply isn’t interested (in which case he can sit all year at every practice and refuse to
play a note); but whatever he does, he cannot quit. Of course, a stable attendance is absolutely essential to any
kind of efficiency and progress. But I believe that a musical organization should maintain a stable attendance on its own
merit, without feeling compelled to swell its ranks with men who honestly want to get out of it. At any
rate, it must be remembered (1) that music is an extra-curricular activity, designed purely for the profit of the student
who enjoys it, and (2) that because it is an extra-curricular activity, it is unjust to force it on anyone
who is not remunerated for it. Most of us agree that this ruling, in its present air-tight form, ignores these
two points and should therefore be materially changed before it completely defeats its own purpose.

KEN SCOTT, Capt. R.O.T.C. Band.

P. S.: I request John Winn, Editor of “Y” Handbook, to write Campus Comments for the next issue of The
Davidsonian.

Merry Christmas
Lino-Cut by Sam Ryburn

By AL CADE
Our cloak of anonymity is our Christmas present to the 2 percent of this column. Broom is dead, thank goodness,
although the gullible who read Nozy had nothing to do with it. Kay Kayser is returning to Sewanee, with its
student body about half that of ours, on January 1 and 2 for the fourth time since 1935. Different orchestras
have their individual styles. Sam Kaye, an increasingly popular unknown, has a hybrid combination of Lombardo, Freddy Martin, Horace Heidt,
and Kay Kayser. There's Will Osbourne and his Slide Music; Shep Fields and his Rippling Rhythm; Music in the Morgan
Manner; Benny Goodman's Swing Band; George Olsen and the Music of Tomorrow; Orville Knapp and his Whang-Whang orchestra; Horace Heidt
and that Singing Guitar; Mark Warnow’s Blue Velvet music; Richard Himber’s Distinctive Music; and Hal Kemp's inimitable staccato trumpets. All
of which leads up to who do we get for Mid-Winters? The holidays will be a good time to get
that date lined up.

Chivy Chivy—Suggested addition to building program—a nice soft bench for the bumming corner. Yentz Johnson is the most underrated football
player in the state. Gail Patrick got away without being interviewed for The Davidsonian. Bill Broadway received a challenge to
a checker game in chapel Friday. Mokey Faison is still framing the boys. Tiger Jim Morton, our genial editor and
notorious chapel orator, wrote Elsie Robinson disagreeing with her syndicated column and received a lucrative check for his initiative. Fifi
Abernethy to his Quips and Cranks: “I'm Getting Temperamental Over You.” About fifteen years from now, we would like to
look into the thoughts of the boy who didn’t want to be king. The cop in the directing-an-orchestra skit you
enjoyed so much in “Born to Dance” was Reginald Gardiner. That and the submarine captain's political satire on fishing were
two of the best spots in the show. Santa Claus, Indiana, with a population of 57, handles an average of
45,000 pieces of mail per day during the holiday rush.

Walt Dicksonand Dunny Covington learned about domestic science at Queens Saturday night. Joe Hunter won a well-deserved position on Collier’s
Sport Weekly Little All-American. Goof Cook! and John Bancroft Ficklen Hughes Jeter Arthur Bust-Head Moseley (all one boy) were the
social dogs of the weekend, having been in the figure at the N.C.C.W. hop.

Ask N.Y.A. Workers To Be Coaches

At the present time, there is only one coaching class still functioning—one in Spanish. Commenting on this, Professor Fleagle, who
is in charge of this work, said recently, “Coaching classes are at a low ebb right now.” He further said
that at any time a professor might think it desirable, he would start a class in that subject. The coach
would be provided from N.Y.A. workers. These classes were begun at the first part of the year for the benefit
of those who were weak in certain subjects, such as math, and some of the foreign languages. Then after the
second report period, all too far behind in freshman math were transferred to basic math, thus eliminating coaching in that
subject. Recently, a rule was put into effect that those who wished to do so could drop languages which they
no longer desired to take.

The man in the moon isn’t half as interesting as a lady in the sun. A fetching girl is a
go-getter. MEANS Scotch shopper going by the main entrance of “I know,” said the little violet, “The stalk brought me.”
Mose how he got that name. Tyler Port, Harold Sugg, Sky Cline, Speedy Turner, and Bill Rader are the other
shake-footers reported to be there with Reg Harris loping up in time for the open house. N.C. gals sure do
like Davidson boys for none of them got stuck—it was a card dance. Elmore Holt to the Mary’s hop. Stew
Barnes sent his girl a freshman cap—why? Bob Johnston, in an early issue of Scrips 'n Pranks, correctly predicted the
two teams to play in the Rose Bowl. Wiley Bradley and Andy Turner to Agnes Scott and Wiley, the pessimist,
took his date with him. Dick Johnson and Nick Nicholson to Sweet Briar but why did Heman Clark back out?
Some of the boys say Ed Armfield is showing splendid Xmas spirit in giving a tree to some of his
little town friends. What is the secret of Hoke Robinson’s fascination for the women? Don't forget Christmas Vespers this Sunday.
Always the best of the year. Davidson will get home later than any school we have yet heard from.

Do you remember the blood-stirring bagpipe brigade entering the courtyard in “Mary of Scotland?” Saw an ad in a newspaper
for Davidson’s Scotch. Monasteries used to brew spiritus frumenti but it can't happen here. Jim Wilson’s tin ear should get
a wrestling letter. What does a conductor conduct? In the hustle and bustle and hullabaloo of the holidays, may each
of us get something of the real Christmas spirit and the true significance of this joyous season. It’s a bit
premature but Merry Christmas to all and to all a good night.

OPEN FORUM

To The Editor:

The question of participants in student activities who do not receive the proper recognition has been a popular question during
the last few years and efforts have been made successfully to honor these martyrs of athletics. We give cups to
the blocking back who paves the way for the fullback. We have honored the unsung heroes in the other school
sports yet there is a group of men in every school sport that are not recognized. This group are the
undergraduate managers. Our senior managers are properly rewarded for their four years of work but the managers who have worked
hard for one or two years should receive some sort of recognition. I am not saying give all the freshman
managers the class numeral but let the ones who are chosen for sophomore manager be given some reward for their
work.—F. P.

Dear Editor:

One of the most important things in our college educational system, it seems to me, has been overlooked. Among other
“forgotten men” and things, I think the development of constructive thinking has been neglected, or at least severely hampered.

First of all, there is so much emphasis on activities as such, on athletics, on music, on social development, even
on studies, that students have no time to spend in developing themselves as thinking organisms. How many students plod through
all the tasks given by professors, assignment editors, fraternal presidents and fail to develop any initiatory activity of their own
until they are called upon to direct themselves, when to many students these activities are found to be unprepared. How
many take the time and necessary mental energy to think of larger applications of the material they are required to
absorb?

Finally, there is far too much resistance to efforts of the faculty to make the students think. It is almost
pathetic to observe the many methods by which professors strive to get independent thinking from the students. When a professor
inserts a thought question among his factual questions, there is a gasp of helplessness from the class. When it does
not come or a review is pledged work, several students in the class are likely to find themselves deluged by
questions from their fellows who do not try to think through the problem. What should be done to make students
think? It’s a hopeless task unless the student wants to think, in which case there is no problem.

LECTURE GIVEN (Continued from Page 1)

He formerly taught in the Teachers College, Columbia University, and was founder and director of the Micro-Vivarium in the Hall
of Science at the Chicago World’s Fair.

CHRISTMAS VESPERS (Continued from Page 1)

Following this, the congregation will unite in the carols, “Joy to the World,” “It Came Upon the Midnight Clear,” “Silent
Night, Holy Night,” and “O Little Town of Bethlehem.”

JACKSON MADE (Continued from Page 1)

University—one day, and was also able to attend a dinner given for Davidson alumni by Captain L. A. Mullen, of
the Central Hanover National Bank. Not only has Mr. Jackson been active in national associations connected with college finance, but
he has been active in the national O.D.K., in which he holds an important office.

CONCERT BAND (Continued from Page 1)

March, into which is introduced the strains of the Russian National Anthem.” The program will close with “O Davidson.” The
program as presented Friday night is in about the same form that it will be presented in on the spring
concert tour.

Mrs. Fred Hengeveld gave a bridge party Wednesday evening at her home.

Everywhere you go you hear something like “Oh, boy, in ONE WEEK I'll be home!” These remarks have been filling
the air since Saturday. I wonder what they'll do for classes Monday and Tuesday? It looks like a lot of
lectures are going to be delivered to rows of empty seats—one way to keep anybody from going to sleep in
class. The talks won't be wasted, though. Not while walls have ears.

You probably saw in the Charlotte Observer Sunday a story concerning the proposed new buildings, for which architects have already
drawn plans. For an interesting glimpse into the future, drop by the President’s office and take a look at the
sketch there of the campus as it is to appear (we hope) in 1987, or thereabouts.

Stuff: West the barracks, whose theme song is “Lights Out,” and are promised relief by the replacement of old power
equipment with new during the holidays. In case you're one of the five or six who haven't known it all
along, the identity of Nozy Broom is Al Cade. Here’s a bird for our gilded Cade: Brr...A scorpion to Lucky
Strike for cutting the Hit Parade to thirty minutes and seven pieces... Why has Davidson been off the air so
long?

When this merry-go-round in England started, I made a resolve to be the only columnist around not to mention it,
and then this one comes along and my resolution goes out the window: If Edward and Wally have a child,
will he be a Simp’s-son? (Well, you either like it or you don’t).

Speaking of England, the Phi Beta Kappa speaker gave as interesting a discourse on the subject as any I've heard
in a long time. Climatically, it seems to be a second Davidson, and some of the buildings there must be
as old as the literary halls and Oak and Elm Row. But I'll bet they aren't dilapidated. That's one of
those things Davidson leads in: dilapidated old buildings. I like my age mellow, not crumbling.

According to a prominent member of the Pan-Hellenic Council, a set of final dances this year is a practical certainty.
That ought to help participation in the historic panorama, and here’s something else that won't hurt it any, either: it
is said that the girls of Queens-Chicora (guess you know where that is) are to be asked to lend their
charm to the cast.

More Stuff: Eureka! We've had one guest minister who didn't spoil the first part of his sermon by spilling the
usual blah about considering it a great privilege to speak here... Before voting on the proposed amendment to the constitution,
remember what Shakespeare said: “The Court of Control by any other name would smell just the same to the Freshman.”
Had a honey of a pun in this space last week on the word “horticulture,” but Dear Editor cut it
out.

There is a conspicuous absence of the usual Georgia-Watts rivalry this year. No water fights, no pep meetings, no bands,
and the 1936 crop of chapel announcements has been way below the average of the two previous years. The water
fight has been well done away with, in view of the circumstances, but it would have given this column something
to talk about for a few lines. The game promises to be a more interesting, if less talked up, affair
though. They'll have helmets and numbers ‘neverything. Some fun! Might be a good idea, though, to get the money and
build that new infirmary before the game.

MERRY CHRISTMAS AND A HAPPY NEW YEAR!... and I'll be seeing you January 5.
