‘D’ CLUB DANCE AT HOTEL CHARLOTTE THANKSGIVING DAY

ALENDA LUX UB! CRTA Che Mavbidsonian

LIBERTAS

SHAKESPEARE TO BE PRESENTED IN MODERN MANNER

VOL. XXIV DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., NOVEMBER 18, 1936

NINE SELECTED FROM SCORE OF ASPIRANTS FOR DEBATING TEAM BY FACULTY JUDGES

Six Regulars, Three Alternates Named in Annual Try-Outs

FIVE ARE CENTENNIALS

To Debate Right of Congress To Fix Wages

The annual try-outs for the varsity debating team were held Friday night, November 13, in the Eumenean Literary Society Hall,
and nine upperclassmen were at that time chosen to represent the college on the rostrum this season. From the twenty
aspirants, John D. Allen, Hayward Hill, Charles Mauze, Tyler Port, Bob Stewart, and Harold Sugg were selected. Bill Kaesewetter, John
Reisner, and Sherrard Rice were appointed as alternates.

John Allen is a member of the senior class, a member of Phi Delta Theta social fraternity, the Deutscher Verein,
the Red and Black Masquers, Gamma Sigma Epsilon, and Phi Beta Kappa, and is president of Sigma Upsilon, and of
the Eumenean Literary Society. Hill (Continued on Page 5)

MINISTERS CONVENE HERE

Davidson Ministerial Band Will Be Host to N. C.

The annual convention of the North Carolina Student Ministerial Association will be held at Davidson on Saturday, November 21. The
convention will begin at 10 A.M. and will last until 9 P.M. The theme will be “Living For Jesus,” and
during the convention five ministers will speak. Walter Haywood, president of the association, will be the leader of the meeting,
and Tom Anderson, president of the Ministerial Band of Davidson, which is host of the convention, will deliver the welcome.
The convention will be interdenominational.

The fifteen colleges in the state having ministerial groups contain approximately three hundred members. It is not known how many
of these colleges will be represented, but Tom Anderson urges all the members of the Davidson Band to attend.

Other officers of the association are J. E. Garlington, of High Point, vice-president; Lock Vass of Davidson, corresponding secretary; Paul
Strauch of Catawba, recording secretary; Sam Myers of High Point, treasurer. The program has been arranged by Walt Dickson and
Watson Street, members of the Davidson Band. The five speakers and their subjects are: Dr. Kenneth J. Foreman on “Living
for Jesus: What Does it Mean?”; Rev. A. B. McClure on “Living for Jesus on the College Campus”; Dr. E.
B. Raynal, of Statesville, on “Leading Others to Live for Jesus”; and Dr. Walter L. Lingle on “The Joy of
Christian Living.”

Vesper Service Will Feature Music Hour

The Davidson Glee Club and Orchestra will present an hour of sacred music for the Vespers services next Sunday, November
22. The Rev. Albert McClure will be the presiding minister. Some of the numbers to be presented are: “Jesus, Joy
of Man’s Desiring,” by Bach; Intermezzo from “L’Arlesienne Suite”; a solo by Mrs. Norman Shepherd, “Meditation,” by Brahms; and “Guide
Me, O Thou Great Jehovah,” by Avery. The program will be concluded with prayer.

MASQUERS PRESENT SHORT PLAYS HERE ON FRIDAY EVENING

Fitzhugh Dade and Bill Mellwinen Direct Mystery and Comedy

SUCCESS ANTICIPATED

Players From Freshmen to Seniors to Act

The Red and Black Masquers will present two short plays, “The Real Mr. Q” and “Scenes from ‘A Midsummer Night’s
Dream’,” Friday evening, November 20 at 8 P.M.

REV. JOHN A. REDHEAD OF TAMPA, FLORIDA, IS MINISTER FOR SUNDAY NIGHT, NOVEMBER 19

Speaks From 1 John, 3—“Now Are We the Sons of God” As Text

DISCUSSES EDUCATION

Says We Should Have Good Opinion of Ourselves

At vespers last Sunday evening, November 15, Rev. John A. Redhead of Tampa, Fla., was the guest minister. Dr. Wilson
Angel of the faculty presided.

“The Real Mr. Q” is directed by Fitzhugh Dade, including in its cast Wade Barrow, Tom Hackney, and Sam Spencer.
The action in this play turns on the mistaken identity of the person whom the detective and the thief suppose
to be the doctor.

The “Scenes from ‘A Midsummer Night’s Dream’,” compiled and directed by Bill Mellwinen, lends comedy interest to this group of
plays. Selecting as his masculine lead for the “play within the play” is Chubby King, who plays the dual role
of Bottom, the Weaver, and Pyramus, the Lover; Jim Wilson as the nonchalant Flute, the Bellows Mender, who has to
play the part of the lady, Thisbe, whom Pyramus must love. The play opens with a scene in the house
of Quince rehearsing a play to be presented before the Duke, Theseus, played by Warren Gaw, and his court.

(Continued on Page 5)

PHOTO COMPETITION

Davidsonian Offers Three Prizes in Contest For Picture-Snappers

RULES ARE ANNOUNCED

Best Entries to Be Sent to Collegiate Digest

In order to promote interest in photography among Davidson students, The Davidsonian will sponsor a photographic competition featuring studies of
Davidson life. Three prizes will be awarded to the contestants: first, $5.00;. second, $3.00; and third, $1.00. It is planned
to publish the first prize winner in the Davidsonian, and the five or six best entries will be submitted to
the Collegiate Digest for use in their rotogravure section. Judges for the competition will be Fred Smith and Dr. S.C.
Lyon. Both of these are experienced in photography, Fred Smith having served as a photographer, and Dr. Lyon having sponsored
the Photographic Club at Davidson for several years. The following are the rules of the contest:

1. Any student is eligible to submit as many pictures as desired.
2. All pictures must have been taken since the beginning of the college term.
3. Pictures must be about Davidson.
4. Pictures will be judged for composition, interest, and general photographic ability.
5. The pictures may be done professionally or by amateurs.

(Continued on Page 5)

HARDING

Faculty Member Undergoes Serious Operation

Dr. Caleb R. Harding, noted and revered member of the Davidson faculty, was rushed to the Charlotte Sanitorium last Wednesday
morning to undergo a very serious operation. He had a heart attack and it is reported that he is in
a serious condition. Dr. Harding has been with Davidson College for nearly half a century, and during that time has
been one of its most stalwart friends and supporters. He has gained the goodwill and favor of both the students
and faculty of Davidson.

The question is to help to tell the difference between right and wrong. This question is not easily decided today.
At one time not so long ago, the moral judgments of a community determined the standard of behavior for the
people of that community. But today society is not so unanimous in its standards. The minister pointed out the great
differences between the standards of the Pope and Bertrand Russell on moral questions, and of Mussolini.

(Continued on Page 6)

R.O.T.C. GROUP INITIATES

Members Will Attend National Meeting in Raleigh This Week

Six recently-pledged R.O.T.C. cadet officers were formally initiated by the Davidson chapter of Scabbard and Blade, national honorary military fraternity,
Wednesday night, November 11. These new members are Cadet Captain Dick Cathey, and Cadet First Lieutenants Dunlap Covington, Fred Holley,
Maurice Peabody, Hal Woodward, and Band Leader Bill Scott. At the meeting Wednesday night, the members announced their intention of
attending the 20th biennial national convention of the fraternity to be held in Raleigh Thursday through Saturday of this week,
November 19-21. To honor a number of associates soon to be elected, the local chapter plans to hold a banquet
sometime before Christmas. These honorary members will include Dr. C. officers in other schools that do not have Scabbard and
Blade. Thomas Aaron of Oak Ridge Military Academy, whom the Davidson boys met last summer, will be one such member.
Others selected will be among outstanding officers in other schools of this section that have military training. Student Scabbard and
Blade members are elected each fall and spring from among those taking advanced R.O.T.C. The requirements for membership are efficiency
in military, outstanding character, and ability to control and command the men.

LUCY CURRIE TO WED FRONTIS JOHNSTON HERE IN DECEMBER

WEDDING BELLS SOON!

Engagement of Popular Couple Is Announced in Charlotte Observer

WILL BE DECEMBER 22

Groom’s Father and Dr. Moffett to Officiate

Of much interest to the students of Davidson and to their many friends over the state was the announcement this
week of the engagement of Miss Lucy Currie to Dr. Frontis W. Johnston of the faculty. The announcement appeared in
the Charlotte Observer last Sunday. Mr. and Mrs. Archibald Currie of Davidson announce the engagement of their daughter, Lucy Martin,
to Frontis W. Johnston, also of Davidson. The wedding will take place on Tuesday, December 22, at eight o'clock in
the evening. The nuptials will be performed in the Davidson Presbyterian Church, with the Rev. Dr. Johnston, father of the
groom, officiating. Dr. H.M. Moffett, pastor of the local church, will assist in the ceremony. Miss Currie is the youngest
daughter of Professor and Mrs. Currie. She attended Salem College and later taught in the Charlotte schools. Dr. Johnston is
a member of the Davidson faculty.

DANCE

Jack Wardlaw and Orchestra to Play For Event in Hotel

Fred Smith Announces Bigger and Better Issue on December 10th

"The 'D' Club will give a dance on Thanksgiving night, November 26, in the ballroom of the Charlotte Hotel," stated
Fred Smith, president of the club, as given in conjunction with the Pan-Hellenic council. He said that the last dance
was a success and that this one promises to be even better. Jack Wardlaw and his Columbia Orchestra from the
cover of Columbia records will provide the music. The ballroom will be attractively decorated for the event. The dance will
be the highlight of the "D" Club's activities this fall.

SOPHS PLAN DANCE SET

Plans For Mid-Winters Are Not Yet Definite

Dr. Edwin F. Shewmake, chairman of the Committee on Broadening, announced that the committee will sponsor two lectures in the
month of December. Dr. George Roemmert, from the Biological Laboratory, will lecture on Tuesday night, December 1. Dr. Shewmake also
announced that Dr. Moffett of Davidson will speak at the Phi Beta Kappa meeting on December 12. The lectures will
be illustrated.

Pfohl Directs Musicians in Concert Over WBT

Coach Mike and his College Band

Harold Sugg, Fitzhugh Dade, and Fields Horine Speak to the Band

The Davidson College Band, under the direction of James Christian Pfohl, presented a concert over WBT last Sunday afternoon. The
band played three numbers to close the program: "O, Davidson!" by Burnap; "O God, Thou Faithful God," by Karg-Elert; and
"Voluntary on the 100th Psalm Tune," by Purcell. This was not in the regular series of Davidson programs, but it
was announced by Mr. Pfohl that the authorities expect to be able to present the weekly broadcasts in the near
future. James Christian Pfohl will give his second recital on Sunday afternoon, November 29.
