S Che Pavidsonian _ Founded By the Class of 1915 1935 Member 1936 Associated Collegiate Press Distributor of Collegiate Digest Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson” Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY Charlotte, North Carolina ¢ SUBSCRIPTION RATES Ten cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate year. Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879. _ ARTICLES FOR PUBLICATION must be in the hands of Managing Editors by 4:00 o'clock p.m., Monday. Letters to the Editor are welcome, but all communications intended for publication must be signed. R. P. MORROW, JR. _.._.---.--- Business Manager EDITORIAL STAFF Owen Cooke - .- Managing Editor Sam Cortran -- Managing Editor Evciio Fant. _-- Managing Editor Hector McGracny .-. Managing Editor Dick Vowles ~ -Managing Editor Yates Allison - TTarry Kuykendall Howel Overton Haroun Succ ..-- Daymond Turner John Winn: -L2..--- -Sports Editor Associate Editor Associate Editor Associate Editor Associate Editor Associate Editor BUSINESS STAFF Business Manager 7 . EL Roprtxson WEDNESDAY. APRIL 29, 1936 | “A good name is rather to be chosen than great riches, and loving favor rather than silver and gold. Prov. 22:1. We mourn the passing of Dr. D. H. Howard. In his short stay among us he had made many friends in both faculty and student body. His place will be hard to fill. THE DAVIDSONIAN joins in extending sincerest sympathy to his family and those more closely connected with him. Paragraphics.... Did you notice the photo in The Observer of the legislator who desires to kick the young essayist from Wofford? It looks as if the gentleman in the photo needs a psychiatrist more than the describer of mill conditions. Keep the green clean! Daily bits of paper from packages, wrappings of newspapers, and candy are dropped with little regard as to how it will look on the campus. The college employs several men to pick up unsightly objects, but they can’t do it successfully without our cooperation. Let's help them in the future. The Pan Hellenic Council, with Coker Branton at its head, has given the Davidson Student several good orchestras and all the dances have proved successful. It seems that more students have taken a greater interest in the social events than ever before, judging by attendance at dances this year. Hidden Spirit... Does it take a football game to bring out that much vaunted Davidson spirit? Why can't we have a more whole-hearted support of our other athletic teams? Although the ‘Cats may not be so successful in other sports all blame cannot be placed on the teams. Certainly the student body can turn out better than attendance at the last few baseball games would indicate! Perhaps the size of the gymnasium offers some excuse for the lack of attendance at winter sports. But for the last few ball games and track meets weather conditions have been perfect and bleachers and stadium have afforded plenty of empty seats. The enthusiasm shown would hardly equal that shown at the average professional game. Come on, let’s get behind our spring sports program. With a little more moral support we might win fewer moral victories! Events are right here on the campus, within easy walking distance of your dormitory room. What’s more (you Scotchmen) admission is already paid for on your athletics fee! Stay with 'em Wildcats! College Need... Need we reiterate? The woeful state of our college infirmary has already brought comment in these columns several times this year. But let us repeat, The present building is a disgrace. It is a fire trap, poorly equipped, without modern heating or lighting facilities, so nearly decrepit that the whole frame structure literally shakes when one walks naturally across its floors. It deserves an award for bravery in merely venturing to live in such a place. In face of mild epidemics like the influenza one last winter it has proven inadequate. From the standpoint of practical and absolute necessity there is nothing that the college plant needs more. Students showed that they felt this in The Davidsonian poll last week. What can we do about it? Eu and Phi... This year, happily, seems to have brought about in some small measure that revival of forensic and literary interests which this publication has urged so long. The old Phi society has risen phoenix-like from its ashes, and the Eu with stricter entrance requirements and renewed interest from its members is now ‘going strong.” Perhaps some innovations, such as the Oxford style debate which brought so much hilarity to the Eumeneans the other night, would give the august founders quite a turn. But they mean a change for the better as far as the societies themselves are concerned. We are glad to see this freshened vigor in our most time-honored institutions. But we wonder how many students are familiar with these organizations and the opportunities they afford. Woodrow Wilson received his first training in public speaking at one of these very halls. Entrance requirements are not difficult and new candidates are welcomed. Would you like a trial? Stage Lighting... Not obvious enough to merit consideration in any building programs, yet just as vitally needed is some improvement in the stage lighting for Chambers’ Auditorium. Anyone who has attempted to speak from that platform at night will realize the difficulty experienced by the distinguished orators who are our guests either at vespers or the regularly scheduled lectures. Present lighting also tires the eyes of the audience. Some form of indirect lighting would not only help future speakers and their audience, but would be quite inexpensive to install. Campus Comments Dear Editor: In any series of comments on college life, there should be at least one article dealing with the academic side of the institution's activities, and therefore at this time when all friends of Davidson College are uniting their efforts to make this a greater Davidson, I feel that it would not be out of place to make some suggestions for the improvement of its intellectual fire. “Davidson has always been noted for its high scholastic standards.” Without doubt this statement is true in so far as the upper twenty percent of a class is concerned; in other words, it is not very easy to obtain recognition here for high-class scholastic work. On the other hand, Davidson is inexcusably lenient toward the borderline man. By this we mean that there are departments in this institution toward which this class gravitates and in which they get by with a minimum of work and a maximum of “bull.” Fortunately, these departments are not numerous but the ugly fact remains that there are enough of them to enable the student, who is primarily interested in getting a sheepskin stating that he is a B.A. or a B.S. without knowing or caring what that degree is supposed to mean, to complete his course and to be one of those ignorant college graduates who are causing people generally to raise their eyebrows and to question the value of a college education. If Davidson is to become the Williams, Amherst, or Dartmouth of the South, this condition must be rectified, and the sooner this is done the closer Davidson will be to being recognized as the best medium-sized college in the Southeast. Since the entrance into Davidson of the class of '36, the administration has been constantly taking steps to bring about this much-needed improvement and it is to be congratulated for its work in this direction. Nevertheless, much remains yet to be done, and it is to be hoped that the administration, striving as it is at this time for the material betterment of the college, will never for an instant lose sight of its opportunities for improving the academic standards of Davidson. Sincerely, J. WOODROW HASSELL. P. S.—I request Lamont Brown, the retiring editor of The Davidsonian, to submit the next letter for Campus Comments. DAVIDSON OFF THE RECORD Mrs. Robson | &/ SUGG y) : BA a4 Y HAROLD The Stag At Eve Had Drunk His Fill _ Occasionally to splatter the calmness of an unbubbling stream come those impulses akin to mass hysteria when we like to parade the clown deviltry in us; break our eggshells and scramble with all the other eggs. Perhaps that’s why Bowery Balls were originated—that and to make an omelet for the Pan-Hellenic Council. The boys put on a good one for us last week although it is a pity we couldn't have confetti, the grand march, and a prize for the best costume. Columnist was sure that the Council would award him the prize. Cokey and his plutocrats have done right well by us this year and we've had some good dances. Although excellent targets for column copy, we are all for the boys and will be the first to start a collection to make up their deficit of the last dance. We were hoping that someone would go disguised as an Annual Business Manager ... He'd have to go disguised. Prelude to the dance were all the usual things: a number of strange phone calls like the one which revealed that Weman Clark was gone on a fishing trip and would be in the woods until Tuesday; an exchange of redundant collect telegrams between unsuccessful Dan Iverson and prospect; to Joe Brog- puss Johnston: Sorry Can't Come Grandmother Has Sore Toe Thanks anyway; and the play of correspondence which netted Fields Young three dates instead of the conventional one. But once the girls arrived, a great weekend was started. The weather was perfect and The Duke Ambassadors had something smooth like Kemp music for the formal and tea dances, and “swing it” for the bowery. And there were snakes crawling around, of which “Hal Overton” was the “most consistent viper. Other despicable reptiles were: Bob Johnston, Bob Sours, Ed Armfield, Ken Fyyfoogle, Billy Hill, George Norfleet, George Cowan, Bronston Kenney, Joe Hunter, Twirps Willis, Bob Vance, Mitch Arrowsmith, Tricky Dave, Dunnie Covington and Martin Barnett. John Latimer, Charlie Malone, and Jerry Harris were the most maligned victims ofthe week-end. Billy Crooks ought not to get lost in swinging doors... The impeccable Crowell drops the Yankee Dance for the nigger at the brawl... Tricky Dave looked like a politician ready to hand out cigars and kiss the babies... and perhaps he did later on... Booby Arrowsmith the wrestler. Was there any hold barred Booby? Phifer Erwin dressed in a gaudy yellow jacket with “Meezic” Moffett in a gypsy costume... McNabb the Hottentot... Val Cassels, Venetian Gigolo. Iago himself... the twin Blue Devils, Alice Palmer and Helen Brown, with John Partridge and Howard Covington... Proud Couples: Margaret Darst and Tom Corbin, Sarah Rice and Walt Dickson, Peggy Brawley and Irving Bull, Alice Dunlap and Bill Morton. Sam Ryburn not quite lost in Dutch Big Boys. Old favorites back again: Louisa Rankin, Claudianna Evans, Ruth Whalen and the Misses Jean and Marjorie Robinson... Ab Price, a character from Alice in Wonderland, a trifle absent-minded, Greensboro successes: Eleanor Eccles, Squeezer Overton and Wilfred Schlosser.

NEWS FLASH: Hindu Brown successful at last, wards off snakes and has a late date... Schnozz Hill's nose was the shining light of the ball... Banks Gladden and his date dressed as Clowns. Any funny stuff, Banks?... Jean Abbitt and Bill Yelverton, delegates from Eastern Carolina... Tyler Port looking like an assorted nightmare, Mr. Koffee Nerves... Grace Hembreght, Marilyn Saunders and Lib Belle-of-the-Ball Lucas, popular dates of the Plutocrats. More favorites: Mary Smith, Helen Bell and Johnny Walker, with Bob Lindsay.

(Continued on Page 5)

STOLEN THUNDER
By DAYMOND TURNER

PARTING SHOT...
The human brain is a wonderful organ. It starts working every morning and never stops until we get to class.

HALF-SHOT...
He calls his girl “Dot” because she’s always trying to poke her head into somebody else’s business.

THROUGH FIRING...
A: When it comes to eating you have to hand it to Venus de Milo.
B: Why?
A: How else could she eat?

ME TOO...
We Hate Term Papers
We'd Rather Cut Capers.
We Don’t Like Tests —
They Spoil Our Best...
—Hastings Collegian.

OF YOU'D NEVER KNOW...
Skeleton: What’s left of a man when you take his insides out and his outsides off...
Social tact: The ability to make your company feel at home, even though you wish they were...
Cannibal: A heathen who never works but dines on other people...
Discretion: The comb that experience gives us after we have lost our hair.
—Daily Tar Heel

NO LISTERINE...
Though they affirm
A deadly germ
Lurks in the sweetest kiss;
Let's hope the day
Is far away
Of antiseptic bliss,
So pray let me philosophize:
To sterilize
A lady's sighs
Would simply be outrageous;
To humor her
I'd much prefer
And let her be contagious.
—The Texas Ranger.

OF LOGIC...
1. No dog has two tails.
2. One dog has more tails than no dog.
3. Therefore one dog has three tails...

Then there was the Maryland freshman who actually protested the assignment of “outside” reading because his porch was too cold.

NOT THAT IT MATTERS...
Love, dumbness, and faculty intelligence are the reasons for freshmen flunking out at the University of Nebraska, according to one of that institution’s deans... The canny Canadian plans to cross kangaroos with silver foxes so that he can grow fur coats with pockets... “It’s the little things in life that tell!” said the sister as she dragged little brother from behind the sofa... She was only a grave digger’s daughter, but she could down the bier!
—The Technique.

OPPORTUNIST...
Give me a house by the side of the road
Where the tourist pack goes by;
Someone's got to sell hot dogs,
It might as well be I!
—Gettysburgian.

BULLETIN...
425 members of the Union College post of Veterans of Future Wars satirized war by marching into chapel bearing rifles... The slogan of the University of Colorado post is "First in war, first in peace, first in their country’s treasury."... Another branch boasts it will “make the world safe for hypocrisy.” At the University of California this VFW staged a military ball, any odd item of uniform from stray fatigue clothes to Sam Browne being worn.

OPEN FORUM

AND NOW?
To Whom It May Concern:
Four years—come and gone! Where in the name of thunder have they gone to in their murderous pace? Spent in drug stores imposing on their generosity by reading (and cutting) the magazines there, and then putting them down in the spilled portions of someone’s dope or chocolate soda. Spent in the most interesting bull sessions that discussed topics as varied as the new style suits that appeared at the recent set of dances. And possibly most of all in the Queen City calling up innumerable and sundry types of the fairer sex in an effort to become educated in a broad social way. And what has it cost us? Many, many hours that could have been spent in getting up that parallel which was due some time ago; or in writing that term paper which we had to cram in and do at the last minute. Goodly hours of sleep which we made up for the next day on some considerate professor’s class. Money that we knew that we could replace by simply writing a nice long newsy letter home telling the family how hard we had been studying and how our supply of shaving cream or toothpaste had given out that very morning. But most of all it has cost us opportunity such as we will never run across again anywhere. Chances to make a record that we could be proud of when we dare to stand up in front of some big shot and say: “Please, Mister, I’m a college graduate. How ‘bout a position?” Opportunities to show the folks back home our appreciation for the sacrifices that they have made for us. Guilty? Sure. I'm as guilty as anyone on the Hill; but to you who are in the rising classes, take a tip from those of us who are supposed to graduate and make the best of the opportunities that are coming to you now and will come to you in the future. And here's to you the best that Davidson can offer,
(Signed)
— J. B. HUNTINGTON, JR.

Compare the NEWS From Davidsonians of Years Gone By—

—Five Years Ago—
Fifteen men are elected to the Student Council. Plans are completed for the installation of the newly-elected student body officers. The service will be followed by a barbecue which the entire student body is expected to attend. Sophomore Day is unanimously abolished by the sophomore class, on the grounds that it is injurious to Davidson's reputation. E. C. Dwelle, of Charlotte, is chosen to the editorship of the Annual. Davidson's golf team wins the state tournament. V. M. I. runners tie Davidson, the score being 63-63. Duke defeats the baseball team 4-1. The frosh nine defeats Campbell College; the Kitten net team ties Darlington.

—Ten Years Ago—
Dr. W. H. Brown, of Washington and Lee, national secretary of Omicron Delta Kappa and one of the charter members, is the principal speaker at the initiation of 25 alumni and students. Roland Parker is chosen valedictorian of the graduating class, with Houston salutatorian and Pull orator. The students are entertained with a movie entitled “Stage Struck,” starring Gloria Swanson, the film being shown in the gymnasium. L. M. McCutchen and K. W. Carr capture the state doubles title. Clemson's runners defeat Davidson and Georgia Tech in a triple meet. Davidson’s diamond men are out-played by both Furman and Clemson. The frosh baseball team loses three games and wins one on a trip over the state.

(Continued on Page 5)

COLLEGIATE WORLD
(By Associated Collegiate Press)

“Employment doesn’t make any difference. A good student may be employed up to four hours a day, provided she limits her extracurricular and social affairs, without affecting the quality of her achievement.”—Assistant Dean Zoe Bayliss, U. of Wisconsin.

Spring Note of Faint Hope For Greek Letter Men: Out in the U. of Washington, they are looking into the possibility of the administration withholding academic credits from those students who owe bills to their fraternities.

Clear As Mud Department
“Students should not try to work their way through college. Those who try are likely to wreck their careers, by the very means through which they hope to achieve success.”
—Dean Nicholas D. McKnight, of Columbia U.
“Students are so much happier when they are working their way through school.”
—Dean E. E. Nicholson, U. of Minnesota.

LETTER TO THE EDITOR
Dear Editor:
For some time now we have been hearing much and arguing greatly concerning the needs of the Davidson campus. Various needs have been suggested. In only two cases, however, have we had a public exposition of the reason these things are needs. I refer to the infirmary and the swimming pool. Much has been said about a Social Center. What would be the function of such a place? What lack would it fill in our college life? In athletics, besides a pool, we have also discussed a field house without a pool, and a new gymnasium. What would these comprise, and how much improvement would they be over our present plant? I would also like to hear something said in defense of a new church. What would an increased endowment go for? Perhaps some of those who voted for it could explain to us in what way it would be superior to actually providing some one definite lack. All these causes and the others received student and alumnus support. It would be well worth while, would it not, to present the reasons for such support? Perhaps we will be awakened to some crying need that we had not realized, as in the case of the infirmary.
For a better Davidson,
R.A. T.