PICKS MANAGERS FOR COMING YEAR

VOL. XXIII

BOB McCLELLAN NAMED TO LEAD CLASS OF 1938

Raymond Pittman Is Elected Vice-President in Final Balloting

THREE BALLOTS TAKEN

Cage Brewer Chosen For Secretary-Treasurer

Bob McClellan was elected president of the rising sophomore class in the final ballot held on Thursday morning, April 9. Raymond Pittman was chosen as vice-president and Cage Brewer is secretary-treasurer of the class for the coming year. The voting for president was narrowed down on the final ballot to McClellan and Stair. Pittman and Sloan remained in the final balloting for vice-president and Brewer defeated White in the runoff for secretary-treasurer.

McClellan hails from Johnson City, Tenn. He was a member of the freshman football squad and is making a strong bid for a varsity position next year. He is a member of Pi Kappa Alpha social fraternity. Pittman is from Fayetteville and is a member of the freshman team and Kappa Sigma social fraternity. Brewer is from Clarksdale, Miss. He is a member of Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity and was a member of the freshman basketball squad. Other than these class elections, the only other balloting the freshmen are allowed to do is in picking their student council representatives.

PRITCHETT BRINGS V.M.C.A. SERVICES TO END THURSDAY

Evangelist Preaches Final Sermon on “The Presence of Jesus”

The topics of Carl Pritchett’s last three talks were: “The Meaning of the Cross of Experience,” "The Enthusiasm for Humanity,” and "The Presence of Jesus.” With three services on Wednesday night and Thursday morning and evening, Carl Pritchett and Joe Overmeyer concluded their evangelistic services held here last week.

The Meaning of the Cross of Experience

Mr. Pritchett’s text for this sermon was, “If any man will come after me, let him deny himself, take up his cross and follow me.” The Christian’s cross means first of all the renunciation of self as the end of life. It means that self will no longer control our actions and thoughts. We cannot renounce self once for all, but, as Jesus said, “daily.” The Cross in our experience means in the second place the identification of ourselves with human need. Eugene Debs said, “While there is a man in need I feel it. While there is a man in prison I am not free.” The great humanitarian movements of history have come in on the shoulders of a few suffering individuals. The cross, in the third place, is the secret of self-joy. Resurrection followed Calvary. It is the losing of life to find it.

(Continued on Page 6)

Clown Faison Gives Bowery Ball Boost

PUBLICATION BOARD

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., APRIL 15, 1936

JUNIORS CHOOSE JOHN ABERNETHY TO HEAD ANNUAL

To Edit Yearbook

John Abernethy, who was elected to serve as editor-in-chief of “Quips and Cranks” in last week’s voting, was chosen as leaders of the junior class, who in the opinion of the faculty, has given the most unselfish service to his fellow students.

McCLURE AGAIN ELECTED

Y. M. C. A. Secretary Accepts Position For Third Consecutive Year

Albert McClure, secretary of the Y. M. C. A. at Davidson, has been selected to fill the same position for the third successive year. McClure has accepted the Y. post for the coming year with the consideration that he will be allowed to leave on reasonable notice if he wishes to accept the pastorate of a church. McClure succeeded Sam Wiley and took over his duties in the summer of 1934. He graduated from Davidson in 1931. While here he was a member of Omicron Delta Kappa, of the Y. M. C. A. Cabinet, student pastor of the Davidson Union Church, vice-president of his class during his senior year, and winner of the Algernon Sidney Sullivan award presented annually to the member of the senior class who, in the opinion of the faculty, has given the most unselfish service to his fellow students. After leaving Davidson, he attended the Union Theological Seminary and graduated from there. At present, McClure and the Y Cabinet are busy drawing up plans for the coming year. His work during the past year has been crowned with unusual success, and the Y. M. C. A. board was pleased to be able to obtain his services for the coming year. The new Y Cabinet has not been appointed as yet, but it will be announced soon. It will be selected mainly from the rising junior and senior classes. One sophomore will also be named to the Cabinet.

DAVIDSON GRADUATES LEAD SEMINARY MEN

Ward, Bird, Pratt, Elected Student Body Heads

In the recent election of student body officers at Union Theological Seminary, many Davidson men were chosen as leaders for the coming year. William Ward, of the class of '33, was elected as president of the student body. Andy Bird, class of '31, as secretary; Charles Pratt, of the class of '30, as treasurer. Ben Brown, class of '29, was selected to be the director of Spiritual Life and president of the Society of Missionary Inquiry. Bah Smith, a member of the class of '35, was elected president of the junior class and Pete Neill, also of the class of '35, was picked for the office of secretary and treasurer. The Pan-Hellenic Council is confident that Bowery Ball will present the greatest variety of any set of dances this year. An unusual feature, and most welcome one, will be a free tea dance on Saturday afternoon given by the fraternities.

Floridian Defeats Tommy Thompson on Third Ballot Wednesday

MINISTERIAL STUDENT

Will Appoint Managing Editors in Near Future

John Abernethy was elected last Wednesday, April 8, to serve as editor of the 1937 edition of Quips and Cranks. Abernethy, whose home is in Winter Haven, Fla., is a ministerial student. He is a member of the Pi Kappa Alpha social fraternity, a member of the college glee club, is secretary of the Photographic Club, and is a junior track manager. This year he has served as snapshots editor for the annual. The balloting by the junior class was on the eight managing editors this year: John Abernethy, Bill Higgins, Ken Wood, Charles Mauze, Graham Squires, Bob Stewart, Tommy Thompson, and Jim Westall. After the first ballot, Abernethy, Mauze, Stewart, and Thompson were still in the race. Abernethy and Thompson were on the final ballot. Abernethy’s first duty in the capacity of editor will be to select the junior editors for the coming year. Four members of the present sophomore class will be appointed to act as photographic, fraternities, sports, and activities editors. The following six men are out for these positions: Jim Dorsett, Euclid Fant, Haywood Hill, Jack Lafferty, Gilbert Lough, and Dick Vowles. Tommy Thompson, who was defeated on the last ballot, is the senior editor.

(Continued on Page 4)

Students Sign For Next Year

College Begins Registration For Next Term

The students began registration Monday morning for the summer session and the regular 1936-37 session. The system of cataloging the courses offered by the college and registering for dormitory rooms has been changed this year. The catalog numbers of the courses are listed in such a way that one may tell to which of the four classes the subject is open and in which semester it is offered. The registering for dormitory rooms is being taken care of at the same time. The offices of Mr. Hengeveld and Mr. Jackson will be open each morning from nine until twelve-thirty o'clock for this purpose until Saturday, April 18.

BOARD ELECTS FINANCE HEADS OF NEXT YEAR

Hoke Robinson, George Norfleet, and Bobby Peters Are Chosen

THREE ARE SELECTED

Publications Board Chooses Men at Meeting

Hoke Robinson, George Norfleet, and Bobby Peters were appointed by the Publications Board to act as business managers of the three student publications at a recent meeting. Robinson, of Columbia, S. C., was chosen business manager of The Davidsonian. He succeeds Frogs Morrow. Robinson has worked on the business staff of the college weekly for the past three years. During the past year he acted as advertising manager. He is a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon, social fraternity. Robinson defeated Bill DeVore, Bill Hill, and Charlie Mauze for the manager's position. All of these men have worked on the business staff for the past three years. Norfleet, of Winston-Salem, was chosen business manager of Quips and Cranks. He succeeds George Albright. Norfleet is a member of Kappa Sigma, social fraternity. Other men up for this position were Albright, 

(Continued on Page 3)

COMMITTEE CHOOSES WINN FOR EDITORSHIP OF 1936-37 HANDBOOK

Plans to Select Staff of Reporters in Latter Part of Week

John Winn, of the rising senior class, has been chosen to edit the Wildcat Handbook for the coming year. The selection was made by a committee composed of the Y. M. C. A. cabinet, Walter Dickson, president-elect of the "Y," and Y. M. C. A. secretary, Albert McClure. Winn has not selected supporters for his staff yet, but plans to do so later in the week, he has stated. He served last year as managing editor of The Davidsonian, and is a member of Beta Theta Pi social fraternity. The Handbook is mailed to freshmen registered in the office a few weeks before the opening of the college. It presents to them a verbal 

(Continued on Page 3)

FRESHMEN ELECT BOB McCLELLAN CLASS PRESIDENT

NUMBER 23

RICHARDSON BROTHERS MAKE GIFT OF ADDITIONAL UNIT TO DAVIDSON COLLEGE STADIUM

NINE MEN SELECTED TO ALUMNI COUNCIL BY CLASS OF 1936

Nine Seniors Are Elected in Class Voting; Another Is to Be Chosen

ARE CAMPUS LEADERS

Cole Windham Is Chosen Senior Marshal

In the elections of the senior class, which were held during the chapel hour on Monday, April thirteenth, Carlton Chapman, president of the student body, was elected permanent class president. At the same time, Cole Windham was elected senior marshal for the commencement exercises, which will be held May 31. Nine members of the class were elected to serve on the AlumniCouncil for a period of ten years. One other member of the said council is to be selected to the council by these nine chosen at class elections. Cole Windham was selected from a group of four men who served as junior marshals last year. They were Cole Windham, Dan Grimes, Mal Grimes, and Baxter. Varbor Glass, Brown, automatically Carlton Chapman, Harvey Henry Caius, Lamont Tinckay were Page 3) and Robert (Continued on Howard Feels: Much Improved Chemistry Professor Shows Some Improvement Dr. David L. Howard, professor of chemistry and mathematics, has been steadily improving during the past week. His condition is very much encouraged over his condition, and his temperature has returned to normal. Dr. Howard developed sinus trouble about the middle of last month, and later he was forced to undergo an operation for mastoiditis. A second operation followed, and he also had several blood transfusions. Since this second operation, his condition has been improving. During his illness, his duties have been carried on by the other members of the department in which he serves. Veterans of Future Wars Demand Bonus A little over a fortnight ago, a student movement known as the Veterans of Future Wars was created, and since that time it has spread like a raging fire throughout the larger universities and colleges in all parts of the country. Starts at Princeton This stirring movement demanding immediate payment of a bonus to those who will participate in America’s next war was begun at Princeton University by a previously obscure junior, Louis Gorin, who is now drowned in a deluge of letters, telegrams, and visitors inquiring about his momentous organization. The young student started the movement as a burlesque on the paying of the soldiers’ bonus by Congress. Since its beginning, the novel organization has grown so rapidly that it is considered to be the “biggest publicity stunt since the World War.” Result Unknown Though this movement was started as one strictly against war, it has grown so rapidly that even its originator wonders what it will come to. Platform Is Bonus The only platform of the organization is to secure the payment of the bonus “before we die in battle.” The originators and promoters feel that if Congress is going to pay soldiers a bonus, it should be paid before the war, for they think that a bonus will be of no good to a dead soldier. Bonus Set The chapters of the group demand that Congress shall pay $1,000 to each member as a bonus to soldiers of any war which might occur from 1965 backward to 1935. The veterans demand also a payment of the sum compounded semi-annually. Grows Fast Shortly after the release of the Daily Princetonian acclaiming the birth of this gag to the college world, “Fort Dearborn Post No. 1” was established at Chicago. Looking more toward the feminine aspect of the movement, the girls at Vassar organized an auxiliary of Gold Star Mothers of Future Wars who demand free transportation to Europe to make a survey of the possible cemeteries in which their boys will be laid. Following this, the City College in New York announced the formation of an association of Foreign Correspondents in Future Wars to train journalism students to write and spread war propaganda, should another war burst forth. Many Chapters The movement has spread so rapidly that at present there are over 122 chapters in various universities and colleges. The V. F. W. is spreading on many other campuses, and applications for the charter are being received rapidly at headquarters in Princeton. Membership is increasing in large numbers. Sentiment Varied American Legion posts in cities where chapters of the V. F. W. have been established have voiced strong disapproval of the organization, calling it radical in its motives. College Officials Approve Many college officials have considered the affair as healthy, believing that it will probably soon die out. Others stamp their approval on the basis that youth has the right to organize against war if desired. Other people believe that though the movement is strictly anti-war in its policy, provided that it secures a strong permanent foundation at present, it may easily be converted into a strong military unit should a crisis demanding such a change arise. Congress Opposed Representative Maverick of Texas has proposed to introduce a Veterans of Future Wars bill in Congress. It is believed, however, that the sentiment of Congress is strongly against any such movement as this proves to be. CAST FOR PLAY Heads Graduates Carleton Chapman, who was elected permanent president of the class of 1936 in the recent senior voting MASQUERS PICK “Three-Cornered Moon,” Popular Comedy, to Be Given May Fifth “Three-Cornered Moon,” a comedy in three acts by Gertrude Tonkonogy, is the choice of the Red and Black Masquers for their next play, to be presented, according to Dave Herring, president of the Club, on the evening of the fifth of May. The cast has been chosen and the directors have started work already. The cast is as follows: Mrs. Rimplegar (Mrs. E. Lewind); Rimplegar (Dade); Jenny (Maria Goodrum); Bab Rimplegar (Wade Barrow); Elizabeth Rimplegar (Miss Lucy Dubric); Kenneth Rimplegar (Melvin); Dr. Alan Stevens (Paul Parland); Kitty (Cunan). The play was first presented at the Cort Theatre in New York City in 1932, and the press comments were unusually favorable at that time. Two years ago, as many will remember, the play was made into a motion picture, rated one of the best comedies of the year. Ruth Gordon played the part of Elizabeth in the original production, while Claudette Colbert played the same part in the picture. PUBLICATIONS JUDGED BY COLLEGIATE PRESS Lamont Brown Will Examine Class “A” Types Each year the North Carolina Collegiate Press Association conducts contests for the annuals, magazines, and newspapers of the colleges having membership in the association. In order to make competition fairer and to give more prizes, the member colleges are divided into two classes. These classes are: Class A, consisting of schools with enrollments of 1,000 or over; and Class B, consisting of all other members. This year, Philip Russell, business manager of the Duke magazine, “The Archive,” and treasurer of the N.C. Collegiate Press Association, will judge the publications in Class B. Lamont Brown, retiring editor-in-chief of The Davidsonian, will judge those in Class A. Last year, The Davidsonian won the award for the best newspaper in Class B. Rollins College, Florida, is the latest to give President Franklin D. Roosevelt an honorary degree. Announcement Made Founders Day of Anonymous Endowment of Chair CAPACITY IS DOUBLED Construction Contract Let to Charlotte Firm As the second completed project in the college's centennial program, Davidson College recently announced the gift of an additional unit to the athletic stadium by Smith and Lunsford Richardson of Greensboro and New York. This gift, together with another gift of $10,000 made some time ago by an anonymous friend of the college, was announced throughout the country at the various alumni meetings held on Founders Day. The anonymous gift will go toward the endowment of a chair here at the college. The new stadium, to be built on the side of Richardson field, will be begun May 15 and completed before the opening of college next fall. This new unit will be the same size as the present stadium, 200 feet long and 68 feet deep, and will more than double the seating capacity at Richardson field. Proposed plans call for the eventual completion of the stadium and the building of a field house. The contract for the construction of the addition has been let to W. S. Lee Engineering Company of Charlotte, who also designed and constructed the Duke stadium and designed the stadium (Continued on Page 3) NOMINEES TO THE COUNCIL ARE MADE LAST SATURDAY Ten Centennials and Six From Each of Other Classes Are Named Student councilmen were made at the chapel period last Saturday morning. Ten Centennials, and six each of the rising junior and sophomore classes were nominated. Nominations for the future senior class: John Allen, Jack Branch, J. N. Cathey, Peter Fort, Ken Scott, and John Winn were nominated by the student council. Deb Anders, Walt Dickson, Jim Morton, and Bob Stewart were nominated from the junior class. Wiesewetter, Patterson, and Moo Thai. Peay, Bafferty, Pav, W. Street were nominated from the rising junior class. Only six nominations, that was the limit. Watson Street, Frank Harrison, Rashid, Phil Perry, Stodn, Beeke White, Sam Webb, and Joe Calan were those in the present freshman class who were nominated. The nominations of Joe Crivily and Sam Webb were from the junior class. The voting on these men was held yesterday morning at the chapel period. Five seniors, three juniors, and two sophomores are to be elected. The present student councilmen from the senior class are Carlton Chapman, Lamont Brown, Paul Tarleton, Bob Sanders, John Patridge, Mills Tarleton, and Cole Windham. Those from the other classes are Wade Boese, Wilber Edwards, Russ Patterson, and Ken Scott. Jim Dorsett, Teeny Laverty, Pat Patterson, sophomores. Sophomores Select Hill For Secretary Heywood Hill of Richmond, Va. was elected to the position of secretary-treasurer of the rising junior class on the third ballot in chapel Tuesday morning, April 7. The final voting for this position was between Hill and Dick Vowles, after Monroe Wicker was eliminated on the second ballot Monday. Hill is second vice-president-elect of the Y. M. C. A. and a member of Kappa Sigma social fraternity, in which society he serves as secretary.