TOSC TUVAN - WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 16, 1936

THE DAVIDSONIAN

DAVIDSONIAN LOOKS BACK ON 24 YEARS OF EXISTENCE HERE

F. W. Price of China, Honored With Selection as First Editor

FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

Publication; World War Begins in Same Year

Do you know what happened in 1914? The World War began! Yes, but more important, the Davidsonian was first published!
It was in a student body meeting, March 18 of that year, that a large group of enthusiastic students decided
to add to their literary publications, the annual (Quips and Cranks) and the magazine (Davidson College Magazine), a newspaper.

Chooses First Editor

Many names were submitted for the proposed publication, but “Davidsonian” was chosen because of the fact that it embraced college
spirit, classes, and activities, everything about Davidson. The first issue appeared on April 1, 1914, with F. W. Price of
China as editor-in-chief and J. P. Williams as assistant. The next year Williams, now professor of business administration here, became
the editor. That first weekly had four main articles on its front page: (1) literary society elections and (2) baseball
season review, both representing student interests; (3) Woodrow Wilson's reception of college President Martin, of interest to alumni; and (4)
civic improvements in Davidson, a subject of interest to townspeople. To those three groups, students, alumni, and townspeople, the Davidsonian
tried early to cater.

The first issues were made up of four pages of four columns each. Then the paper took on five columns
on each of its pages. Next, six pages, and then eight. The number of pages then dropped back to six,
but the number of columns went up to seven. The Davidsonian is now in its 24th volume, and each passing
issue works “for a better Davidson!” For many years the paper has sponsored improvements in college life and has brought
about a better understanding between the faculty and the students.

LIGHTING FIXTURES ELECTRICAL APPLIANCES GROCERIES

M. H. GOODRUM & CO. Zenith and RCA Radios

It is now recognized as an established fact that the first X-ray picture ever made in the United States was
made at Davidson College. Until recently Yale University has contested this statement, but lately has withdrawn her claims. The X-ray
was made by three students of the class of '96, Osmond Barringer of Charlotte, Eben Pender of New Orleans, and
Porter Har- die, of Brooklyn. For a long time the boys kept the picture hidden as they had stolen the
equipment with which the picture was made from the college laboratories. On producing the picture they discovered that they had
made history for Davidson College, and were in no danger of expulsion, as they had feared.

The making of the first X-ray picture came about in this manner: The Physics students of the college had become
very much interested in the study of Crooke’s tubes, a very expensive bit of apparatus which had been recently added
to the laboratory. Dr. Roentgen made his announcement of the discovery of what he termed “shadow-pictures,” made by the use
of Crooke’s tubes, on January 4, 1896. There was much discussion of the truth of the statement among the students,
so one night the three boys mentioned before decided to try the experiment themselves. They broke into the Physics laboratory,
secured the tubes, and took them to their experiment room. After their first picture, of familiar objects, had proved a
success they secured the hand of a dead negro, which was being used for medical purposes, shot a bullet into
it, and made an X-ray of the hand. Dr. Henry Louis Smith, then professor of Physics, then perfected the device
and made various experiments and pictures in the neighboring country.

MacClure Will Continue Here

The Rev. Albert M. MacClure, Secretary of the Davidson Y. M. C. A., has recently declined a call to the
assistant pastorship of the First Presbyterian Church in Dallas, Texas, and will continue his work here. After spending about ten
days in visiting the church and considering the nature of the work Mr. MacClure said that he “felt it wise
to decline the invitation.” The Dallas church is the largest in the Southern Presbyterian Assembly and Dr. Frank C. Brown
who has just succeeded Dr. William Anderson as pastor. Mr. MacClure is reported to have made a favorable impression on
the congregation in his contact with them while visiting there. His chief responsibility as assistant pastor would have been work
with the young people of the church in which Mr. MacClure is very experienced.

Because 75 members of last year’s freshman class at Massachusetts Institute of Technology were taken forcibly to the institute's cabin
at Lake Massapoag and held there in chains overnight, Dr. Karl T. Compton, president, and the student body have taken
joint action to abolish wholesale kidnapings of freshmen.

CHRISTMAS DECORATIONS SOUTHERN 5 & 10c Store Christmas Supplies

CARS FOR RENT M. P. Henderson GULF GAS & OIL

Page Five

CHEMICAL FIRE DR. SPEER’S LECTURES DELIVERED HERE YEAR AGO, NOW FORM BOOK

Otts Lectures Appear Under Title of “The Meaning of Christ to Me”

Students Would Form Bucket Brigade to Fight Fires in Old Days

The Otts Lectures for last year, delivered here in December, 1935, by Dr. Robert E. Speer, have now appeared in
book form under the title “The Meaning of Christ to Me.” Four of the six chapters of this book were
delivered at Davidson at the Otts Lectures for 1935, and the second and last chapters are addresses which Dr. Speer
made at the Student Conferences at Northfield, Mass. All the addresses have been revised and are now in the college
library.

Beta Theta Pi

Brother Crane and his two sons were guests at the feed held last Sunday night. Mr. Crane is on a
furlough from Belgian Congo and is spending the winter in Davidson. John Irwin and Jim Terry week-ended in Charlotte. Dick
Cathey and John Winn had a time in Gastonia. A Christmas party is planned for next Monday night.

Pi Kappa Alpha

Charlie Raynal, Ogburn Spoon, Bob Anders, Willie Moore, Snozz Hill, went to their homes for the weekend. In spite of
his dislike for publicity Johnny Horton should be listed with those who visited the home folks. A feed was given
Sunday night for the alumni of Charlotte, Gastonia, Concord, Salisbury, and Statesville. Mr. and Mrs. George Jones and Tyler Port
visited their homes in Greensboro last weekend. The rest of the Chapter went shopping in Charlotte for those Christmas presents.

Phi Delta Theta

The Chapter had a meeting with the Charlotte Alumni Chapter last Friday night, December 11. The agent in charge of
the F.B. I. ac leir one DLO S 1s +0. crit and The response to the venerated Mrs. Henning of
Albemarle visited North and South Carolina. The story of the former consisted of the chapter Sunday afternoon. Mr. Lowder made
a talk on the activities of the special agents’ organization in this section. Brother Bill Neal gave a practical explanation
of various firearms used by the G men and demonstrated the Thompson sub-machine gun. Brother Smith, another Federal agent, was
also here. About eleven alumni joined the Chapter in a feed and smoker after the program. Brother Ben G. Childs,
the Province president, visited the Chapter Thursday and Friday. The Christmas party will be held tonight. The Chi Omega Sorority
from Queens College will be the guests.

Interesting Books
Other books just received are: "Adel" by Hottmeisten; "Sparks from the Electrode," "Life and Man," and "The Microbes," three volumes
in the series "Progress in Science." The Department of Chemistry and Medicine is subtitled "The Achievement" and is a member
of the DeLuxe Editions Club, of which the library is a member. The jacket bears the following description: “A gorgeous
book, distilled from the essence of modern science.”

Old Chambers burned in 1921, until four years ago. Only five men and a machine were available. The chemical cart
still resides in its quiet corner. Even this was a hand-powered contraption built small enough to enter room doors in
dormitories and very tipsy in regard to its equilibrium. That chemical cart has fought fires in all parts of the
community after students had played dray horse with it. In its heyday, it was quite an elaborate piece of equipment.

About four years back, the town and college decided that although this was admittedly a small town compared to some,
it still felt it would take more than thirty minutes for it all to burn down (that was the life
of the old cart tank). Upon reaching this conclusion, they got together and bought the present fire engine, which is
capable of delivering a stream of water to the top of any building in the town. So, the next time
you hear the cry F-I-R-E, thank your lucky stars it only means ‘come-look-what-I-see’ and not ‘come-on-hitch-yourself-up-to-this-fire-wagon.’

PLANS ARE DISCUSSED AS ETA NU PI MEETS
Reports from the Convention Received and Business Discussed

The regular meeting of Eta Nu Pi was held last Tuesday night, December 1. At this meeting, reports were received
from the delegates to the state convention which was held recently at Greensboro. Plans were also discussed for the celebration
during the Christmas holidays of the festivities usually held by Eta Nu Pi, and an appropriation was made for Christmas
decorations. Due to the phenomenal success of the chapter recently established at W. C. U. N. C., it was decided
to send representatives to Raleigh to look over the girls’ schools there with the object in view of starting other
sister chapters if the indications are favorable. After the conclusion of business, an interesting program, consisting of an impromptu debate
and several talks in the form of parodies and campus leaders, was presented. A brief feed was then held, and
the meeting was adjourned.

Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year to You All
White Drug Company
“Davidson’s Oldest and Best”

THE SUPER-STRETCH KNIT IN Interwoven "Nu-Top" ... a regular length sock that stays up without binding! Patented and exclusively Interwoven.
It is the only satisfactory, self-supporting sock! For comfort, neatness, and all-round satisfaction, ask for Interwoven “Nu-top”... they’re “the Tops”
in socks.
2 PAIRS $1.00
NEW PATTERNS...SOLID COLORS
J. B. IVEY & CO.
