THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 15, 1936

work ourselves out of the crushingly one-sided economy that for fifty years not only impoverished DAVIDSON PHILANTHROPIC Town agriculture but a few years ago began to rot of itself.

The National Red Cross Association has awarded the Davidson-Cornelius chapter an Honor Certificate “for Distinguished Achievement.” This is in recognition of its large enrollment, totaling 268 members.

1935 Member 1936
QUARTER SYSTEM
Associated Collegiate Press.

The student body has scarcely settled to work after a, in many cases, rather strenuous holiday season when it is hurtled into the lowering menace of semester examinations. The regular meeting of the Philanthropic Literary Society was held Tuesday night in the Phi Hall, and officers for the coming term were elected. President Hornbeck reviewed Miss Cornelia Shaw's “Davidson College,” emphasizing especially the parts which give the origin, history, and other facts about the Philanthropic Society. Following this review the officers were elected as follows: George Hornbeck was reelected president; T. D. Mullis was made vice-president; and Henry Harkey was reelected secretary. The treasurer, who holds office for the whole year, is Dick Lindsey. Gordon Smith and Fred Furness were elected first and second critics, respectively. The president appointed judiciary and program committees. It was voted that no more meetings would be held until the first Tuesday after examinations, on January 28. President Hornbeck announced that in the near future it is planned that a debate should be held, discussing the question of whether or not the faculty should have absolute censorship over student publications.

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Printed by the QUEEN CITY PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate year.

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879.

ARTICLES FOR PUBLICATION must be in the hands of Managing Editors by 4:00 o'clock p.m., and all communications intended for publication must be accompanied by the name of the author.

LAMONT BROWN... Editor
R. P. MORROW, Jr. Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF

The best thing in life is not the thrills, the emotional eruptions, the hurly-burly periods of activity, but the succession of more ordinary pleasant experiences that build up one’s general feeling of well-being: a well-spiced dinner conversation, speaking and being spoken to, and being engrossed in bull sessions that in later years become post office and drugstore political debates; dressing for an event, and enjoying that vanish-thou-burden feeling born of Saturday afternoons. The biggest things in life are the littlest. We would like for some penster who can put forth a magnetic finger and draw out a variegated, mutual satisfaction that comes with finding mail in the mailbox. The subdued and subtle, it spreads, warms, and satisfies until the time for the next train, whence again comes the itching. Disturbing this calm order of things are examinations. And the Lethe runs into the Acheron.

Besides this factor of preparation, the quarter system offers a distinct advantage in the matter of retardation. Many students fail from illness, worry, or lack of general ability—causes beyond their control. Re-division of the school year would obviate the necessity of such men falling a whole half-year behind in their scholastic work. The smaller units would make a thorough mastery of subject matter easier. Also, it would help the curriculum to meet more readily the problems of individual differences in interests and ability. Surely the giving of one more examination a year would not place too great a strain on those concerned. We should be glad to hear the opinion of members of the faculty and student body on this plan which has been so widely followed throughout the country.

NATURE TRIUMPHANT

An intruder has invaded the sanctity of the library. Boldly it has broken the traditional serenity of that institution, with undercover and even nightly persistence. If unchecked, the influence of this newcomer will have the whole system in disorder. Spurned by locked doors and early hours, refusing to take a properly Presbyterian “No” for an answer, the visitor has chosen a Machiavellian method and has broken all resistance. The powerful drive of nature has at last invaded the pedagogic staidness and cloistered reserve of the library. The ivy vine can be found peering through a crack in the wall of Room Six.

Humanity is always said to be at a crossroads; if we are to believe the economic dilettante, always upon the threshold of a new order. In 1917 and in 1920 the world supposedly faced an international brotherhood in democracy, and in 1933 the decline of all civilization was depicted if the London Economic Conference failed. One could actually see, with the aid of McElray Syndicates and Simondized feature stories, the sheer precipitous walls of Eu Society.

Let another man praise thee, and not thine own mouth; a stranger, and not thine own lips.
—Prov. 27:25

EUREKA

The Davidson Music Club held its annual social meeting Tuesday, in the Civic League hall. The hostesses were the officers of the club and the program committee. Prof. and Mrs. J. C. Pfohl spent the week-end with relatives in Salisbury. During the past week, Prof. Pfohl attended the National Bandmasters’ Convention in Champaign, IL. A second band will be organized next semester for the benefit of the regular college band, Prof. J. C. Pfohl, director of music, announced that this had been done because of the demand among many students for an organization of this sort. This band will be under the direction of A. Mortland Cunningham. Students who take this band work will stay in the second band until they are deemed capable to play in the Symphonic Band, when they will be promoted.

Miss Louise Thompson has returned to Union Grove to resume her duties as an English teacher in the high school.

Coach and Mrs. Eugene Mclver have...

. returned to Davidson after spending the holidays with relatives in Knoxville, Tenn. The J:umenean Literary Society held its first meeting of the year on Tuesday, January 7, in the Union Center. A speech was made by Ralph McClelland on “The Orphan News Reel.” Jack Branch delivered a talk entitled “This Right-Handed World!” Bancroft Mosely was called on for an impromptu speech, and he gave one about “Eastern North Carolina during the Holidays.”

The final meeting of the semester was held last night. Several Freshmen read papers preliminary to gaining membership in the organization. The entire society is looking forward with keen anticipation to a joint meeting with the literary society of Queens College to be held either in Davidson or Charlotte.

Sigma Upsilon Meeting Sees Joe Dees’ Drama

Sigma Upsilon, national honorary fraternity for the encouragement of writing, held the first meeting of 1936 on January 6. Carlton Chapman, president of the local chapter, presided. An original one-act play was presented by Joe Dees. The play was based on a realistic picture of gangster life in New York City. Alton Cates read a paper on one of the problem plays of the famous Norwegian dramatist, Ibsen’s “Ghosts.”

THE YOWL: is resurrected since our last squirt. THAT IMMENSE GUST of wind we felt over the weekend was not a cyclone. It was the Pan-Hellenic Council heaving a sigh of relief as they signed Freddy Martin's contract. THE IOTA PIU club is sweeping the campus. All members are either liars or unfortunate.

ISH KA BIBBLE

To lose your gal is one thing. To have her get married is another. But to receive a sudden announcement of the tie-up with the guy to whom you introduced her is stark tragedy, says Jailbird Higgins. Will someone give Henry Mills a banjo to put on his knee when he goes to Alabammy? Who is that cheerful boy we see around here? Oh, it’s CAMPUS PLUTOCRAT NO. TEN.

First of the Centennials (praised be the name) to break into the realm of plutocracy is this gentleman whose nose you are now dodging. None other than Lawrence “Schnozz” Hill, newly elected Varsity Manager of football, who, with Ed Armfield and Dick Johnson, are charter members of 1937 BMOC. For Lawrence, it was merely a promotion from that honorable institution of which calumnist is a part, the B.N.O.C., protruding proboscis being prerequisite. Lawrence is a man of many friends and many nicknames, potential rush talk for national barriers, the decadent industries, the reduced standards and economic misery if the London Economic Conference (with the London tabloid headline: “Motley, Aleck, Moley, and God Almighty”) did not lead us to the land of cooperation. Yet looking backward now, one has to search to find even the date of said conference. Thus we are always being taken in by the rabble-rouser, the publicist, or by ourselves. Having fully recognized the irony of taking it too seriously, we may be able to discuss the effects of the AAA decision at least with the knowledge of the consequences involved. And though we, too, may point to a crossroads and take both ourselves and the decision too seriously, we have at least admitted the possibility.

The absent-minded professor we would like to meet is the fellow who would lecture to his steak and cut his classes. —F. J. Cadem

STOLEN THUNDER

THE WHITE FEATHER... Co-eds on the Syracuse University campus take no chances when they haven't a date; they wear the school colors in ribbons in their hair. The ribbons signify they haven't a date and aren’t too particular with whom they get one—just so they get one!

QUESTION?

What animal is it that is yellow, green, pink, and white, has seventeen pairs of legs, walks on its knees, and wears overshoes when it rains? We thought up the question; you think up an answer! —The Rotunda.

2d DEGREE...

And when Harvard University considered giving President Andrew Jackson an honorary degree, Ex-President John Q. Adams asked the university to take back the degree that they had just given him. —Daily Tar Heel

RAILROAD...

Also from Carolina comes the following tale concerning the “frail train that ran from Richmond to Norfolk.” The train drew up at a little two-by-four station along the way. “This is Wimberly,” said one of the men. “No, it is Thursday,” said another. “I am too, let's get a drink,” said a third as they filed off the wooden day coach.

SPICE OF LIFE...

Financial straits and/or faculty censorship have bested the humorous publications of sixteen Virginia colleges and universities. The Randolph-Macon Fine Old Aldid is the sole survivor to date. To meet this situation, the Virginia Intercollegiate Press Association produced Koolscap, presumably issued by the student bodies of all colleges so left humorless. A limited first edition has just made its appearance on Virginia campuses, after many delays occasioned by “lack of contributions.”

WEAL AND WOE

This Davidsonian will be one of the few in three years to lack the craftsmanship of Hal Overton who got sick before the exams instead of on account of them. “I have the doctors baffled,” he would like to declare.

WAR

I would like to declare war on “Music Goes Round and Round, etc.” This Warner Bros.-Gene Buck controversy which has canceled from 18-40% in broadcasting variety is beginning to get almost as much on our nerves as Governor Hoffman. Warner Bros. owns 5 major publishing houses and failed to renew general radio contracts this year. The A.S.C.A.P. (association of songwriters), headed by Gene Buck, contends that Warner Brothers has been acting selfishly and contrary to the interests of the music profession in seeking individual contracts. Many stations (WGN and WLW early in the battle) have signed individual contracts with Warner Brothers. And a local trade war started here Monday on exam pads. The 5&10 fired the first shot which was heard at least a block, for a drugstore fired back. The other drugstore then entered the fray and at one time exam pads were selling 5 for 20c. Then rushed in frantic plutocrats of the Student Store, whereupon the village shopkeepers followed the lead of the Boarding Houses and formed a combination in restraint of trade. Net Results: Exam Pads, 3 for 25c.

Speaking of wars, we...

QUEEN CITY PRINTING CO.
843 E. FOURTH ST. CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Representatives Lamont Brown R. P. Morrow

Commencement Invitations
Visiting Cards
Fraternity Publications
Personal and Fraternity Stationery