THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 11, 1936

Burning “Carolina Lunch” Brings Natives and Firemen
Ticking Clock, Bottled “Cold Drinks,” Ice Cream, and Sardines Saved

Little black faces with saucer-wide eyes stood in front of the “Carolina Lunch” licking their chops as the luscious mixed aroma of sizzling hamburgers and onions poured onto the street. The “Carolina Lunch” had caught fire at 8:30, Monday morning. The scent of roasting hamburgers, hot dogs, and onions brought natives from blocks around, wherever their noses led them, hoping to see some excitement and maybe get in on one of those fire sales.

Less than twelve minutes after the first whiffs, a little black boy, big as your hand, started to wail. The spectators were unable to determine whether it was because the fire didn’t last long enough or because he couldn't get loose from his mother long enough to get some of those hamburgers. However, when all the windows were out, the fire decidedly lost interest for the crowd, and there sprung a competitor. A husky negro woman as broad as a horse fought her way through the crowd from the “Herald” and nabbed her man, rascal, you chopping that long look at the scene of action with one of those I-don’t-wanna-work expressions as his boss escorted him homeward with peculiar little pet names to go back to his “wood chopping.”

When the fire was extinguished, it was found that nothing was saved except some ice cream, a few bottles of “cold drinks,” some canned sardines, and a clock which was still sitting on the service counter ticking away with the correct time.

College Catalogues To Be Secured Soon

The annual Davidson College catalogues, edited each spring, are now being printed. The registrar's office has been corrected several typographical errors, however, the number of courses offered has not been changed. Another edition of the student college catalog, edited by Registrar M. Hengeveld assisted by the staff, will be available to prospective students soon. These catalogues can be secured by calling at the office sometime in the near future.

Thursday
The G-Man of the Tip Going to
EDMUND LOWE —in— “GRAND EXIT” with Ann Southern

Friday and Saturday
On the Stage...
RAMBLIN’ JACK RICHIE and his original BLUE RIDGE MOUNTAINEERS
also—
TIM McCOY in “Bulldog Courage”

Monday and Tuesday
A drifting ship, a doomed human cargo, surging drama from the high seas!
JACK HOLT —in— “Dangerous Waters”

Watch for these hits coming to the State:
“Soak the Rich”
“Call of the Prairie”
“I Conquer the Sea”
“Escape From Devil's Island”
“Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde”
“It’s A Great Life”

STATE

TORREY LEADS BAND MEETING
Text Taken From Ezekiel; Compares World Situations

Torrey was in charge of the meeting of the freshman Ministerial Band on Sunday, March 8, choosing as his text Ezekiel. The speaker compared the situation in these verses with the present world situation. He described how Egypt and Syria were destroyed because of their excessive national pride. This national pride is evident in the present, and the same result, the speaker continued, is apt to be the end of these nations who are following their own selfish course.

The three sins which brought about the downfall of these two ancient nations are the following: self-assertion and self-aggrandizement, becoming greater than others, and being proud of its greatness. These three evidences of national pride are present in many of the nations of today. These nations, the speaker said, have continued their course of self-aggrandizement without paying any consideration to the welfare of others. He concluded by saying that unless the nations of the world change their policies, they will come to the same end.

During the talk, Torrey quoted two poems to illustrate his points: “London, 1802” by Wordsworth, and “The Recessional,” by Kipling. In the absence of the president, James Salango, T. D. Mullis was in charge of the meeting.

DRAMATIC CLUB (Continued from Page 1)

The officers have been working since early last fall and secured their charter on February 1. The fraternity, named Zeta Kappa Cast, provides for a national honor society, membership in which may be awarded to students for outstanding work in the dramatic club of the college. In order to become a member, it is necessary to have been a member of the Red and Black Masquers for at least one semester and to have done outstanding work in the field of dramatics, either by acting, staging, or make-up work.

THIEVES BREAK INTO (Continued from Page 5)

A great many people knew that the owner would not be at home, as it had been printed in the Charlotte papers and announced over the radio that he would introduce Richard Halliburton at the lecture given by the latter in Charlotte that night.

QUALITY at LOW COST
M. H. GOODRUM & CO.
HARDWARE DRY GOODS RADIOS

MURDER
GALA HOLLYWOOD PREMIER!
While the cameras turn, an unknown killer takes his toll of death! First the star, then the director! Movieland’s most baffling mystery!
Reginald DENNY
Frances DRAKE
Gail PATRICK
Rod LA ROQUE
Geo. BARBIER
Mon.-Tue.-Wed

JUST A COUPLE OF VAGABOND LOVERS...
Stan LAUREL
Oliver HARDY
In Their New Feature
“THE BOHEMIAN GIRL”
Mon. Tue. Thur.
All Seats Anytime

Society Plans Joint Meeting
Eumenean Literary Society Will Meet With Winthrop Group

The Eumenean Literary Society, at its regular weekly meeting Tuesday, March 3, discussed a proposal of J. L. Dees that the society hold a joint meeting with a literary society of Winthrop College in Rock Hill. After a heated debate upon the advantages of the various institutions with whom joint meetings would be possible, Dees was commissioned by President Treadway to make arrangements for the meeting. After the devotional service and business session, speeches by T. B. Hoover and Fitzhugh Dade were delivered to the society. Hoover spoke on the subject, “Good English,” reviewed a booklet of that name, and reminded the group that one of the purposes of the society was to develop in its members the use of good English diction.

The “Miscellany” section of Time Magazine formed the greater part of Dade’s address. Having first emphasized the fact that he could vouch for none of the bizarre statements he quoted, the speaker related several episodes of a “Believe It or Not” nature. Extracts from the “Miscellany” section of Time Magazine were also included.

Members of the student body, to whom bids to the society were extended last week, signified their acceptance of their bids by attending the meeting last night. Initiations of new members will be held in the near future.

MUSEUM GETS (Continued from Page 3)

Other specimens show moths whose habitat is in the United States and who are colored so much like the bark of the trees on which they live that the human eye, when only afew tinguish them from the bark are ot on feet from them, cannot dis- © 1936, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co. WEDNESDAY SATURDAY ROSA NINO PONSELLE MARTINI KOSTELANETZ ORCHESTRA AND CHORUS 9 P.M. (E.S.T.) — COLUMBIA NETWORK to Chesterfield Cigarettes. Turkish tobacco is expensive. The import duty alone is 35 cents a pound. But no other place except Turkey and Greece can raise tobacco of this particular aroma and flavor. This Turkish tobacco, blended with our own American tobaccos in the correct proportions to bring out the finer qualities of each tobacco, helps to make Chesterfields outstanding for mildness and for better taste.

Phi Society Initiates Six Men at Meetings

At a meeting held on March the third, the Philanthropic Literary Society initiated six new members, who are: B. J. Reed, W. F. Bell, W. C. Johnston, K. M. McIntyre, J. Y. Templeton, and J. C. McClure, Jr. Other men who were unable to attend this initiation because of unavoidable business will be initiated later. Also, a debate was held that was a discussion of the theory: Resolved that the faculty should have absolute control of the student publications. J. H. Gailey, Jr., and H. L. Harkey took the affirmative side, while F. M. Mack and J. F. Black took the negative. After a heated discussion, the affirmative side won.

REV. C. F. MYERS (Continued from Page 1)

the wish for character and influence, which the most powerful sometimes, as now understood, was force for Although “archers” would “sorely grieve him” (as, for instance, Henry Grady was tempted to give his consent to unscrupulous and powerful men), he would be strengthened by the Almighty God — "the arms of his hands were made strong” (for it was God, not Grady, who furnished the courage to withstand the threats of these men).

Next week, the preacher for the services will be the Reverend Frank E. Gaebelin, of Stony Brook, New York.

ARNOLD SHOOTS PIG (Continued from Page 3)

Bill immediately made himself known to the owner, and the case was settled, the farmer complimenting Arnold on his gentlemanly attitude, and thanking him heartily for not hitting his prize pig nearby. But Bill finished his hunting trip on the rifle range.

For centuries the world has gone to the Near East for its flavors and aromas and spices. ...and today Chesterfield imports thousands of bales of tobacco from Turkey and Greece to add flavor and fragrance.

TOWN TATTLE (Continued from Page 3)

day afternoon, at the home of Miss Kate Douglas. His subject was “The Forerunners of Romanticism.” The following officers were elected for the coming year: Mrs. C. M. Richards, president; Miss Julia Johnston, vice-president; and Mrs. G. R. Vowles, secretary-treasurer.

Miss Irene Hudson, of Louisville, Ky., addressed the young people of the Presbyterian Church, Sunday evening at 7:30 o'clock. During her stay in Davidson she was a guest of Mrs. C. H. Hamilton.

Mr. and Mrs. J. V. Lore entertained a few of their friends Thursday evening, March 5, in their new home on Concord Street.

The Davidson High School girls’ basketball team, coached by “Sky” Cline, lost to Mooresville High by a score of 10-11 last Friday. Faye Linker and Annie Griffith were the stars for the local girls.

The Davidson Civic League held its regular meeting Tuesday afternoon, with Mrs. E. L. Linker presiding. Reports of the various committees were given.

Mrs. J. R. Withers has returned from Washington, D. C., where she spent several days with her daughter, Miss Sarah Withers.

PASTORS HEAR DR. LINGLE (Continued from Page 3)

ence over men and the world, and the Christ of Christian experience. The greatest argument for His Deity is not in theology, but in the hearts of saints and mystics. Dr. Lingle made the same address in January as speaker for the MacCartney Foundation in Philadelphia which is similar to the Otts lectures. The speech is to be printed sometime in the future by the foundation. The ministers’ group has had an average attendance of from 50 to 75 at each meeting. The meetings are open to any minister in reach of Davidson.

RICHARD HALLIBURTON (Continued from Page 1)

flocked around to get her autograph. And then I bought her a brand new three-foot harmonica, and you should have heard her play Beethoven, Bach, and Schubert!” And then concerning some of his other escapades. “In Russia, I had an interesting time unearthing the Bolshevik who assassinated the Czar and his family. I found the man half delirious, and he divulged the whole story in disconnected bits. The funny thing was, that he was so indignant when accused of failing to assassinate one of the family and bungling the job, that he poured forth the whole fascinating tale.”

“Do you do much writing while traveling?”

“Yes, I had to fill a page in fifty American newspapers every week during my last trip. In Russia, I had to do the stories on tissue paper and sew them in my friends’ overcoats when they left the country. By the way, the moving picture, “The Prisoner of Shark Island” was really taken from one of these many articles I wrote as I traveled.”

This interviewer was fascinated by Halliburton’s entertaining stories, but despite his convincing manner, it was difficult to believe some of these episodes, although the storyteller denied embellishing his tales. For an hour Richard Halliburton poured forth his stories, and then as we arose to go, he apologized for keeping us, needless to say the least?

CHRIST NEEDS NEW LEADERS Union Theological Seminary Richmond, Virginia (A Serial Advertisement)

To the Christian Students of Davidson College:

For the U. S. West Pointers there is one service but there are various spheres of service within the whole. Each man is assigned by superior authorities to his place, Engineering, Reconnaissance, Subsistence, Combat, etc., in accordance with his abilities, aptitudes, and application. It is like that in Christ’s army. Only, in Christ’s army there are many more spheres of activity than the U. S. Army. To each of you He will assign a place. If it is in business, you are to be a Christian business man. If in industry, you are to be a Christian manufacturer; in medicine, a Christian physician or surgeon; in education, a Christian teacher; in divinity, a Christian minister.

(To be continued in this space later)

(If you would like to see this entire series in one setting, write for a copy to Ben R. Lacy, Jr., President, Union Theological Seminary).

Alcohol, tobacco, tea, and coffee, moderately used, do not cause any disease of the heart or blood vessels, says Harvard’s Dr. William H. Robey.

ENID BOWERS Representative 21—Georgia Ratcliffe’s

Send Her FLOWERS For the Dances .. for mildness .. for better taste