THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 29, 1936

HONOR ROLL

Benfield, Ellis and Walker Picked As Frosh Wrestling Stars by Leroy Blackwelder

SPORTS AFIELD

HONOR ROLL

Iverson, Tice and Lee Chosen as Frosh Basketball Stars by Paul Harlan

By HARRY KUYKENDALL

Our friend, Felix, has abandoned his characteristic ferocity in favor of a mood bordering on black despondency. There is a
noticeable sadness in the way he continues to look out over Richardson Field. Perhaps he sees a decline in Wildcat
prestige on the far horizons of athletic glory. Perhaps the trouble lies elsewhere, but one thing is certain, trouble there
is.

We believe Felix’s problem is one of filling the vacancy that will be left by Coach “Doc” Unger’s resignation, effective
at the end of this wrestling season. The popular Wildcat mentor, an exponent of both the football and wrestling games,
has produced two undefeated wrestling teams to State honors during the five years of his coaching here. Questioned about this
year’s team, Coach replied that he expected the 1936 edition to be a winner too. So far the mat artists
have toppled everything in sight.

Building the team around his four veterans, Blackwelder, Parker, Hodgin, and Owens, Unger has not yet had to call upon
them but with Duke, Carolina, State, and V. P. I. he plans to. Right now, though, the activities and policies
necessary for producing a championship team are being polished.

Looking back over his reign as head coach, “Doc” recalls five men whom he considers as the best all-time grapplers
that Davidson has had. “Pie” Conway and Ed. Gorham, ’32, Charlie Fort, ’35, Leroy Blackwelder, and Jim Hodgin, the last
two being members of this year’s team, are his “wrestlers extraordinary.” Although Hodgin hasn't been in a fight this year,
he will be used against Duke on February 1st. “Doc” stated that “he shouldn't lose a bout this year.” Owens,
who has been troubled with a broken shoulder, hopes to be in shape for the Duke match. Coach still sticks
to his statement that “Owens has a chance to be one of the most outstanding wrestlers Davidson will ever have.”
“Doc” attributes his defeat in the last meet to weight loss and a troublesome boil.

Unger stated that he was through with coaching, but had not decided what he would do after leaving here. However,
he is considering having his amateur status restored as a wrestler in order to take active participation in this class
again.

Meet Your Friends Here

Ju W Cafeteria

20 Years Experience With Davidson Men

NORTON’S BARBER SHOP

Look Your Best For Midwinters

Coach Laird to Change Cage Line-up

WOLFPACK TRIPS BLUE DEVILS; WHITE PHANTOMS TOP BIG FIVE STANDINGS

PLYTHE, BERRY STAR

Cats Resume Schedule Against Catawba and Elon

The Davidson Wildcat basketball team is back at hard work after a lay-off of two weeks. Coach Laird is putting
his team through its paces in preparation for games against Catawba on Wednesday and Elon on Friday. Coach Laird, settled
on his first team now, has made available in the future a team that has changed little and will be
fast and capable of holding their share of the spotlight. Both are handicapped by the center position being small. Phe
has been at center all season with Kiesewetter, Hancock, and Quick available for the vacant position. Wade Yearwood will start
at the forwards, and Herm of service to the team as a whole is small and encumbered. Phe is not
one in the group. They are willing, and should play good games before the season ends.

Saturday night in Raleigh, Coach Satterfield’s N.C. State Red Terrors returned to the victory trail with a surprising upset over
the favored Duke Blue Devils 20-19. Captain Charlie Aycock, Plythe, and Connie McBerry led State in scoring. Duke, minus their
star Bill Huiskamp, was led by Cheek. North Carolina’s White Phantoms, pushed into the undisputed first place in the Big
Five by this victory, top the standings this week. The Phantoms have no Big Five opponents this week and will
attempt to stay on top with games against Greason’s Wake Forest team at Wake Forest on Friday. Davidson remains idle,
meeting no Big Five teams this week, but meets Catawba on Wednesday night and Elon on the local court on
Friday.

It is always an old custom of sports writers, particularly when they like the game, to start talking about tennis
even when the ground lies covered with snow. The Wildcat “racqueteers” have what promises to be an even better team
than last year’s in that all six men will have just about equal ability. Four lettermen are back: Carlyle Lewis,
Martin Barnett, George Hornbeck, and Jake Morrow. Heading the list of applicants for varsity positions are Bronston Kenny, Harry Frampton,
Bill Bell, Carl Carlson, Wade Boggs, Gordon Woodward, Owen Cooke, and a host of others just as noteworthy. As soon
as the snow clears off, Manager Jim Knox plans to start work right away to prepare the courtmen for their
annual trip to Florida.

At the time this was written, Jake Morrow and Charlie Ross were having a heated argument over their respective games,
tennis and golf. Jake maintains that the latter sport is an “old man’s game” while Charlie, who shoots in the
seventies, points out that tennis can’t be enjoyed much when one reaches his late thirties. Of course, it would be
futile to attempt to prove which “is best,” but it does behoove us to say something about golf prospects since
tennis has been accorded similar attention. The linksmen will also have a better team with Bill Snow, George Cowan, Charlie
Ross, Jelly McClelland, and possibly Charlie Hamrick returning to form a complete team.

Medicated with ingredients of Vicks VapoRub

KITTENS WIN FROM ABBEY

Iverson, Tice and Lee Lead Freshmen to 26-22 Victory At Belmont

Coach Chapman's Freshman basketball team won a close game, 26-22, from a fast Belmont Abbey team on January 14. The
game was played on the latter’s court. Led by Ned Iverson, who was high scorer for the night with 18
points, Johnny Tice and Jack Lee, the Wildkittens came from behind in the last half to pull the game out
of the fire. Belmont Abbey, paced by Mauro, one of the best guards in the state, led at the half
10 to 9. Credit goes to the entire team for their fine showing against such strong opponents, and it was
only through their ability to work together that they were able to come out victorious.

A game that was to be played here with the Purol Pep team from Charlotte next Friday has been postponed.
Wingate comes to Davidson for a game the first of next week, the yearlings go to Wake Forest on February
7, and take on the North Carolina frosh as they return home on the eighth. The Freshmen boast wins over
Wingate, Belmont Abbey, Paw Creek High School, one of the strongest high school teams in the state, and Balls Creek
High, another smooth running quintet. Their only loss was suffered at the hands of the strong State team. The Wolfpack
yearlings have not been defeated this year. With the first semester examinations under their belts, the Freshmen are working hard
for their future games, and several players are showing great promise.

Fraternities Start Basketball Tourney

The basketball season will soon be underway for inter-fraternity sports, and schedules are nearly ready. The Pikas lead fraternity sports
with forty points. Whether or not the Phi Delts with 22 points or the Betas with 15 will challenge that
leadership remains a question. The Kappa Sigs will meet the Phi Gams in the only game in the first round.
The second round will begin with a game between the Kappa Phi quintet and the K. A.’s, and the S.
A. E.’s will play the Phi Delts. Lastly, the winner of the first game will play the Pikas to complete
the second round. Last year the S. P. E.’s won the basketball competition, with Kappa Sig following. S. A. E.
and Pi Kappa Phi tied for the last place.

Winston YMCA Team Defeats Wildkittens

The Wildkitten grapplers suffered their first setback of the season Saturday night at the hands of the Winston-Salem Y. M.
C. A. Benfield and Ellis scored the only points for Davidson when they won time decisions over their opponents. In
the 118-pound class, Hailey (WS) defeated McIntyre by a fall in 2 minutes. In the 125-pound class, McCormick (WS) pinned
Craver in 2:27 minutes. In the 135-pound class, Barber (WS) pinned Graves in 9:52 minutes. In the 145-pound class, Stock
(WS) defeated Walker by a fall in 8:54 minutes. In the 155-pound class, Benfield (D) defeated Shallert by a time
advantage of 5:07 minutes. In the 165-pound class, Ellis (D) won over Cope by a time advantage of 7:30 minutes.
In the 175-pound class, Thomas (WS) pinned McCall in 4:01 minutes. In the unlimited class, Sherrill (WS) won by a
forfeit. Final score—Winston-Salem Y. M. C. A. 30, Davidson 6.

“DOC” PICKS ALL-TIME GRAPPLERS

Pictured above are the five men selected by Coach Unger as the outstanding wrestlers he has coached since he came
to Davidson in 1930.

CATS INITIATE SPRING WORK

Forty-Five Gridders Report For Winter Football Practice on First Day

The Davidson gridiron athletes began winter football practice last Monday afternoon indoors, as no work could be done outside due
to the snow. Coaches “Doc” Newton and Gene McEver, who are beginning their fifth year as mentors of the Wildcats,
announced that the practice will continue until early in March. More than 60 football candidates have been asked to take
part in theDrills, however, some will be unable to report until the close of the winter sports schedules. These men
have been working out in the gymnasium since returning from the holidays in preparation for the winter practice. Coach “Doc”
Newton said it was “one of the greenest squads that had been out in several years.” He also felt that
some of the varsity might not return. Captain-elect Dick Johnson, all-state guard, may go to West Point next year and
Morris Freeman, star tackle, is no longer in school. Ten lettermen are graduating this year. Eleven varsity men are returning
and will be used as a nucleus for next year’s team. The coaches hope to develop some varsity material from
the promising players on the “B” team and the stalwarts of the Freshman squad. Alex Brown, George Grey, Haywood Hill,
Chubby King, and George Mathis showed up well on the “B” team last year. Beginning with fundamentals, the coaches will
later divide the squad into two competing units and scrimmages will be held regularly.

Those who drew uniforms last Monday are—ends: Parker Connor, Jim Hicks, Ned Iverson, Bob McClelland, Bill Rader, Bailey Williams, and
Jim Wilson; tackles: Bob Benfield, Spencer Goodman, Luke Graham, Haywood Hill, Joe Hunter, Bill Johnson, Dave MacMillian, Leon Norfleet, Pinkey
Stowe, and Dave Warden; guards: Carl Carlson, Hardy Gasteiger, Dick Johnson, Jim Johnston, Bill Kester, Gordon Lanier, George Mathis, Rut
Jack Summerall, and Lock Vass; centers: Bobby Abell, Herman Clark, and Horace McCall; backs: Ed Armfield, Bill Beaty, Tom Corbin,
Fred Dennis, Parks Hand, Frank Harrison, Tip Harrison, Chubby King, Teeny Lafferty, Rufus Plonk, Hubert Mooney, Charlie Sears, John Smith,
Fred Staire, Tom Thurston, and Buddy Young.

Matmen Open Big Five Season Against Devils

Bob Blue, 118 Pounder, Strengthens Line-Up By Return After Illness

The official opening of the collegiate wrestling season will find the Wildcat grapplers matched against the Duke Blue Devils at
Durham on February first. Coach Unger says that if his veteran lettermen come through as they are expected to, Davidson
ought to retain its state title. The Wildcats in their pre-season contests have not lost a match and if the
new men on this season’s team keep on improving, the Cats will have a good chance to retain the championship.

The probable line-up will be as follows: Blue (118), Andy Davis, if he has recovered from an illness sufficiently by
that time to get in condition. Otherwise, either Doug Neil or Johnny Allen will take over Davis’ place. Parker, one
of Coach Unger’s four veterans, will grapple in the 135 class. Either Crabb or Frank Owen in the 145-pound class.
Bixler or possibly Gamble will get the call for the 155 class match. McFadyen in the 165 class, and Hodgin
in the 175 class. Oren Moore will be the Wildcat entry in the unlimited class. Leroy Blackwelder, Coach Unger’s prize
pupil, who normally wrestles in the 165 class, may be used in any of the three heavier ones. “Most,” says
Coach Unger.

Bob Blue, 115 pounder who two weeks ago was ordered by his physician not to participate in any further strenuous
activities due to an illness, has returned to practice after a further examination proved that wrestling would not be injurious.
“He is a vastly improved grappler since his two-week layoff,” says Coach Unger. “The Wildcats will encounter a rather strong
Duke team in their first match but they are expected to come through with a win.”

Local Leather Pushers Await Opening Fights

Thirty-Six Entrants Train In Preparation For Intra-Mural Bouts

RIVALRY TO BE KEEN

Winners In Six Divisions To Receive Awards

As the date draws near for the annual intramural boxing matches, a great number of entries are being registered for
the competition to be staged here sometime in the latter part of February. The classes in boxing instruction will start
next Monday and run from three-thirty to five-thirty every afternoon. Any students that wish may come out for these lessons.
The winner of each division will receive a silver boxing charm.

Thirty-five boys so far have signed up to be in the tournament. In the 115-pound class are: Bob Blue, Harry
Kuykendall, and Ken McIntyre. The featherweight division boasts the same number of entries as the flyweight division: Tom Daniel, Harrison
Isler, and Norman McCullough. The lightweight division, running from 130 to 139 pounds, has six aspirants: “Shorty” Bankhead, H. F.
Holoman, S. C. Howard, Bill Monroe, “Vergie” Ritchie, and R. H. Robinson. The welterweight or 145-pound class leads now in
the number of entries: Dick Crabb, Jim “Demon” Iverson, M. Mack, Jim Morris, “Buddy” Gilbert, “Little Ned” Sloan, Derry Young,
and F. M. Mack. The 155-pound class leads next with seven boxers registered: Joe Gamble, Gordon Lanier, Paul Pittman, Bill
Pope, Jack Tillotson, and Midge Verble. Four are booked in the 165-pound class: George Mathis, Howard McFadyen, Bob McClellan, and
Bill Monie. In the light-heavy division, ranging from 170 to 179 pounds, there are only two entries: Harry Gasteiger and
S. Stevens. The heavyweight division is very sparsely settled as it is unrestricted over 180. The two entries are: Charley
Edwards and “Six” Johnston. With the tournament still a good time off, many new entrants are expected to swell the
competition in the eight divisions still further. Indications are that each section will be well-represented before the boxing matches begin.

The absence of defending champions in this year’s tournament is very conspicuous. Graham Squires in the 155-pound class, and Leroy
Blackwelder in the 170-pound class, won diadems in last year’s bouts, but neither has signified his intention to defend his
crown. Howard McFadyen, who won his championship last year at the expense of Fritz Byerly, will compete in the 165-pound
class, and he is the only man to defend his championship. George Mathis, Harrison Isler, and several runners-up will be
strong in the fight this year. The Seniors won the class crown last year.

FACULTY WING INITIAL GAME

Laird and Martin Star in 42-41 Victory Over Charlotte Pure Oil Team

The Davidson College faculty basketball team opened its 1936 season last Tuesday evening, defeating the Charlotte Pure Oil team in
the local gym by a score of 42-41. The game was a see-saw battle from start to finish. Going into
the fourth quarter trailing by four points, the faculty, led by Johnson, rallied to take the lead in the last
minute of play. Coach Flake Laird was the star of the first half, while Grier Martin performed best in the
last half. Martin was high point man for the game with 17 markers.

The faculty basketball team was organized two years ago for exercise purposes. Three or four games were played, the proceeds
being used to donate the trophy which is awarded annually to the varsity man showing the best team spirit. No
games were scheduled last year, but a few practice contests were played with the varsity. Several more contests will be
played this year, probably ending with a contest with the varsity.

The members of the faculty squad are Coaches McIver, Chapman, Laird, and Unger; Professors Johnson and McGavock; and Alumni Secretary
Grier Martin. Professor Johnson was captain of the Davidson varsity in 1930, while Laird and Martin are old Davidson varsity
men. Coach Chapman played for Bowling Green (Ohio) College. McIver and McGavock, while not varsity men, played basketball at Tennessee
and Davidson, respectively. Grier Martin has also been playing for the Y-Transfers team in Charlotte. His first game for this
independent team was against the New York Celtics. Since that time he has played in six games with the Transfers,
being outstanding in almost every contest. If the faculty basketeers continue to play the brand of ball exhibited the other
night, they will furnish plenty, if not too much, competition for the varsity in their game at the close of
the season.

Track Squad Drills For Collegiate Meet

The Davidson track teams will begin practice for the 1936 season with Coach Pete Whittle holding the position of head
mentor which Captain Pritchett left last spring. During the past six years, Coach Whittle has assisted freshman and varsity squads
in track. Now he will be in full charge of the cinder-men. Coach Whittle has an enviable record in Davidson
track annals for he set two college marks while on the varsity. His time on the 120-yard high hurdles is
fifteen seconds. He ran the 220-yard low hurdles in 24.7 seconds for the record. During three years of varsity competition,
he also ran the short dashes. In 1930 he was captain of the track team. Coach Chapman will assist him
as the Wildcats prepare for meets scheduled in March and April. The varsity expects to have but two home contests,
Wake Forest and Maryville.

One of the reasons college men go hatless is to avoid hat-checkers.

CHARLOTTE, N. C.
FAUL AND CRYMES, INC.
SPORTING GOODS
415 SOUTH TRYON ST.

Correct Size, Correct Price

Pictures For Position and Graduate School Applications
SEE MAL GRIMES, JR.—9 GA.
