Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN. WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 1936

The Davidsonian
Founded By the Class of 1915

1936 Member 1937
Associated Collegiate Press
Distributors of Collegiate Digest

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON AVE NEW YORK, N.Y.
CHICAGO - BOSTON - SAN FRANCISCO
LOS ANGELES - PORTLAND - SEATTLE

Entered at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, as second-class matter according to the Act of March 3rd, 1879.

JIM MORTON : Editor
R. H. ROBINSON : Business Manager

SCOREBOARD ...
The Wildcats have played two home games this season, and one essential object has been missing at the local contests. The object is the scoreboard which all of us would like to see at the Homecoming contest against Carolina. Most students can keep up with the score but scoreboards offer a great deal of assistance in keeping an accurate tab on the game. Consider also the multitude of ladies who attend. As you know, they need every available means of assistance in following football games. Consider our guests first and then think of the students and we believe the authorities will correct this oversight.

CLEMSON CHEERING ...
Davidson students sincerely appreciated the cheering of the Clemson students who supported the Wildcats at the Davidson-Furman game.

Concession ....
“Girls? Tickets” represent another field in which Davidson has pioneered. We do not know of any other school where students are permitted to purchase tickets for their fair friends at such a substantial discount. But from the enthusiastic response which has greeted this move, the Athletic Association comes to find itself in much the same position as that proverbial Arab who asked a camel to warm his nose in the tent. The allotment was originally placed at a number of hundred, but within the past few years the student body has come to demand its full quota of tickets as a right rather than a privilege. One should certainly take into account the fact that, especially in case of a sell-out game like the one next Saturday, the Association stands to lose heavily even on the unusual number of tickets as half of our undergrads seem to be carrying a date to the game. This further complicates the situation. It has been suggested that the freshmen without dates be transferred to the end zone. And there is the objection, quite tenable, that this would tend to disrupt our cheering section. As this goes to press, we cannot know how the Athletic Committee has solved the problem. We can be sure that some will be disgruntled, no matter what the outcome. However, we are sure that Coach Sheppard and his men have done their best to reach a fair decision and one which will suit the greatest number.

Welcome Alumni....
Welcome! Well Davidson, her Centennial year under way, takes this opportunity to welcome her returning sons for another Homecoming season. We are glad, as always, to have you old grads back. But more especially since this year is an outstanding one in her history. Those of you who have not visited the campus in several years will note many improvements. We are especially proud of our new stadium, our new walks and roadways. Let us repeat that OUR, for you alumni are the college much more than those of us who are here today. Our college owes her distinction above all to her past students and from you come our traditions and our prestige, our hope of the future. And as Davidson men we owe many things to our alma mater. From time to time the graduates have been asked to contribute materially to the college. You have never failed. Many of you have given without stint of your time and resources, even when these were not asked for. May we suggest that you give again? Let the administration have your support in the Centennial building program.

NEW WALK...
The college authorities are continuing the campus improvement program. The latest addition being the new walk under construction between Shearer Hall and the two small buildings to the southeast of Shearer Hall. We are very proud to see that it is being built, especially as winter is just around the corner.

FALL SERVICES...
Many of us may think that just another Fall Service speaker has been scheduled to talk in chapel and at the Vesper Services. But that is an erroneous conception because each of the talks bears a message for each of us. Whether we are aided is up to us. Let’s attend each of the meetings and get the most out of them.

OUR LOSS...
Furman edged out a victory over the Wildcats by one point. We were not cocky and the team played hard. Tom Corbin and Dick Johnson were missed. What we want is a win over Carolina when Davidson and the Tar Heels meet Saturday. Several years have passed since the Wildcats have trounced Carolina. We believe it possible this year with a sturdy line and a fast backfield.

VISITING TEAMS ...
The Carolina players will be our guests in two days. It is up to us to make them feel at home and show them over the campus.

DANCES ...
We have always maintained that the conduct at our school dances (which aren’t school dances at all) is of an unusually high type and that the girls who attend them are without peer. We believe that many of those who object to dancing per se would change their opinion if they could attend one of the class or Pan-Hellenic functions.

COST OF LIVING...
Although having no quarrel with the Davidson Boarding House Association, and although cognizant of rising food prices, we still wonder why board here is from three to eight dollars a month higher here than in similar communities. Certainly, either the quality of our provender should go up or its price should come down. Several fraternities have amply demonstrated that messing can be done better for less than most of us now pay.

THE IRON MAN
Lino-cut by Bob Miller.

We read the “School for Scandal” the other day and our large and sensitive ears are still burning. Judy Canova, Paul Whiteman’s hillbilly star, says a communist is a person who writes about people in a newspaper. It’s a weary world, my friends, but we yam what we yam. We're grateful that campus politics isn’t as muddy as these national contests. Joe Penner, the only candidate with a definite solution to offer, says he would take all the automobiles away from the people and put this country back on its feet. Hal Overton learned all about old Spanish customs at the Press convention in Louisville from Juanita. Wish “Scripts 'n Pranks” would publish that diary. The S. P. E's threw a party in the pines last Saturday and Hiram White, Jack Somerville, Bill Broadway, and Jerry Harris are now members of the Night Owl club. How long would you last in one of those St. Joseph questionnaires?

W. BY E.2—Ben Bernie’s recording of “A Star Fell Out of Heaven” is the best yet from Bernie's. Did you know that Lynx is a genus of woodpeckers? We've heard Whiteman swing the “William Tell Overture,” the “London Bridge Is Falling Down,” the “Indian Love Call” yodeled by a hillbilly trio, and “Under the Moon” in rhumba time sung in Spanish by the Pickens Sisters with a downbeat in the middle. Now our ambition is to hear the Mills Brothers do the Hallelujah chorus from the Messiah with lots of oompa. Nomination for Oblivion: one double cut for games away from home. Ken Fryfogle enjoyed the Furman game with his Bali Bali girl. Booby Arrowsmith’s girl believed in safety in numbers. Perry Sloan is not having a Mrs. up for Homecoming, contrary to last summer’s rumor. Dave Sellars and Hoxie Thompson saw the game from a distance. Willy Moore and Sky Cline represented the long and short of it but where was the female photographer? Buddy Branton and Yates Faison saw 55 reasons why boys leave home at the Parlez Voo Parade. Snozz Hill saw some worthy opponents at the mill. The Alumni Banquet was a hilarious success with the announcement of Teeny Lafferty’s blessed event. Chubby King was the figure at the ball. Bob Abell, Wade Barrow, Booby Arrowsmith, and Maurice represented the ball. Bill Kiesewetter is having a blind date up but we still think he can pick them. Nose Hunter is sponsoring a big publicity for his Chevrolets. The Cookes, Goof & Owen, the Ganiers, I and II, and Ernie Dooley took in the fair. Dunny Covington was hard-pressed keeping the Physics fire burning for thelocal picnic. Doug verse Peabody belles of for Homecoming scheme Neal, Bull Durham, Milton Crisp, Stolen Thunder

By DAYMOND TURNER

‘Pay Thro’ the Nose’... For the benefit of those of you who wonder what your time is worth, we quote President Hotchkiss of Rensselaer: “Including your tuition, loss of labor through the college, and other items, your time in college costs about $1.50 per hour throughout the four years.”

SO SO Bias... The prize freshman at the University of Southern California who filled out his church preference on the registration blank as “red brick” is one ‘Skunt’...

By the time the average college boy today succeeds in accumulating the pigskin, the coonskin, and finally the sheepskin, poor father hasn't much left either horsehide, hide

Weaker Sex... "It's the little things in life that tell,” said sister as she dragged her small brother from under the sofa. Then we knew a girl that had to leave the room to change her mind—so modest. Whereas girls used to blush when ashamed, the modern lass is ashamed when she blushes.

Chapel Hill... A Carolina Freshman in English class was discussing the advisability of compulsory college education. The instructor demanded: “Why should morons and imbeciles be forced to attend college?” With a sheepish grin, his victim stammered: “I’ve often wondered.”

On the same campus, we hear of the student who, after dancing with the same partner for several numbers, blithely remarked to his fair companion: “Gee, you're the best dancer I ever got stuck with.”

Speech Courses... Instruction in the arts of polite heckling, asking embarrassing questions, and booing is included in a public speaking course at Amarillo, Texas.

Plea... Why is it professors can wear purple ties, haphazard haircuts, and coats the wrong size, trousers too short and the color?

Bill MacIlwinen found that a ghost had beaten them to the pillow at the Halloween party in Charlotte. Decorating the campus for Homecoming is a good thing. More power to Pan-Hell for offering a prize for the most uniquely decorated house. Let's do something about our dormitories too. Each dormitory could, for a nominal sum, erect a “Welcome Grads” or a “Beat Carolina” pennant. This isn’t just any Homecoming, it's Centennial Homecoming. Let's all go to the game and do our best to Beat Carolina. And then the dances. They're Davidson dances so let's make them good ones.

Dear Editor: Last week there appeared in this column a letter which, while loudly disclaiming any intention of condemning hazing, seemed to advocate certain disciplinary measures including paddling as a part of a freshman's education. Just how far these measures should be allowed to go was not made exactly clear, but it was presumed that “playful upperclassmen” would have proper judgment as to when to stop. I wish to issue a rebuttal.

First of all, paddling is hazing, according to dictionary definitions and the opinions of everybody who has seriously thought about that problem. It is true the physical discomfort is slight and soon passes, but no one who has been a victim of the comparatively mild forms of hazing that have been practiced at Davidson in the past few years can agree that there is always “nothing shameful about it, nothing humiliating.” The very object of these practices is to humiliate freshmen, and it cannot be denied that many things occur that are so distasteful that they disgust some of the spectators. It was urged that the fact of its long existence proves the system has merit. Davidson has many traditions of which it is proud, the loss of which would be tragic, but it is inevitable that there are other traditions handed down from year to year which should be rooted out as quickly as possible. The philosophy of “whatever is, is right” is not at all typical of the true Davidson spirit.

Hazing once existed in its most vicious form on the Davidson campus. It was stamped out by the vigorous action of right-thinking students. They did not try to limit it; they recognized it as a vice and tried to eliminate it entirely. In recognition of the need for some definite control over freshmen, the Court of Control was established to enforce certain rules. On the whole, the system has worked well, and I cannot understand why there should still be a sentiment in the student body in favor of hazing, in any form, however mitigated.

After all, is there any real basis for the generally assumed superiority of the upperclassman over the freshman? What has he done that he has grown so great? By the order of things, the freshman feels himself to be inferior and so is often retarded in his natural development. Most often what he needs most is friendly aid and good counsel, rather than “discipline” and “invaluable advice.” The letter last week stated that it was a matter of sportsmanship. I submit that it is not. I ask you, what is sporting in forcing a freshman to submit to indignities with no chance of reciprocating? True, the force may be only administered with a paddle. It all boils down to this: Hazing is old-fashioned, out of date. College students today realize its childishness. Davidson has established for itself a fine reputation along this line. It is true that the Student Council has “incurred grave responsibilities” by its stand, but it is doing its duty toward enforcing the constitution of the student body, conserving the name of Davidson College, and making Davidson a finer and more decent community of students.

—UAW

Scheme vile, yet flunk me in English because of my style?

Prosperity... The registrar at the University of Oklahoma proved that students with the thinnest wallets get the most “A's” when two state legislators complained that the three-dollar “flunking fee” was a hardship on the poor students.

Belated... With a rickety platform to stand on and a weaker support than they planned on, the Republicans all are afraid of a fall, for they know they have nothing to Landon.

Up in the Air... The Lasso tells us that Lake Erie College is the first women's college to adopt aviation as part of their regular courses in physical education. Higher education, eh?

In a Nutshell... The political campaign went out like a lamp shortly before the nation wrote the final chapter in the election yesterday. It’s over. Coming in this morning, the Kernel got his first lung-full of cool, fresh air in weeks.

The Annual photographs came back last week, and that experience really is painful. Most of them aren't a bit like us, but we're just hoping when we say it. Kernel took a good grip on himself and looked his last Saturday. His hair is still standing on end from the fright.

Hoss Charlotte must have been something! We listened to the “ghost-in-the-street” Halloween broadcast about ten-thirty Saturday night, and you could smell their breaths through the loudspeaker as the goblins talked. Next year Kernel will know where to go on October 31.

Following, we're afraid, a suggestion made by Nozy Broom in his strip last week, the fraternities are going to put on the dog and the decorations this weekend for Homecoming. It would be much easier if we were playing the Duke Devils or the State Wolfpack, but just how in the dickens do you make a Tarheel? We've got some ideas, but they would probably be censored.

After-math of the Press convention, and revival of a passing fad: “Knock-knock!” “Who's there?” “Sarah.” “Sarah who?” “Sarah Tiger under the bed?” Incidentally, there was.

The Davidson College Band journeyed to Greensboro last Friday to play in what is appropriately called a “music clinic.” No noticeable improvements have been reported, and quite naturally. It’s the student body that gets sick; the band boys play on.

But all kidding aside, we want to remind you that the band is going to play a concert for the alumni in Chambers Saturday morning. If you don’t want to miss something good, you'd better go too. They're going to play “London Bridge” without competition this time.

This year’s senior blazers are designed, we are told, so that they can be worn after graduation. Why not design next year’s freshman caps with the same idea in view? The next step could be ROTC uniforms that would also pass for tuxedos.

In case you happened to read this column last week, you probably noticed that the last paragraph failed to make sense—that is, it made even less sense than the rest. That wasn't Kernel’s fault, the printer just overlooked about half of it. What we really meant to say was this:

“The casting director of ‘A Midsummer Night’s Dream’ showed great foresight. The boy he picked for the part of the ‘wall’ has a mouth that will serve as a door, thereby doing away with the scenery problem.” Not particularly good, we'll admit, but it’s better than what came out.

After listening to the broadcast of the Davidson-Furman game last Saturday, Kernel suggests that the Wildcats take their own announcer with them to the next game that is going on the air. The one they had in Greenville did everything but cheer with the Furman pep squad. Prejudice in a radio announcer is a good thing if he’s prejudiced in your favor, but otherwise it’s not. Pun: An ounce of announcer fairness is worth a pound of prejudice.