THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 22, 1936

SOPHOMORES DOWN SENIORS IN MONDAY SOFTBALL GAME

SPORTS AFIELD

GOLFERS ENTER INTER-SCHOLASTIC MEET AT ATHENS

By YATES FAISON

Dave Smith, Duke sophomore twirler, broke the fame of the Wildcat baseball team at Durham by turning in a one-run
performance. The Cats couldn't break through and showed a shutout, bowing to the Blue Devils 7-1. Smith was effectively backed
by the Duke field and hitting.

Those sophomores seem to be on the road to climbing to the top in the softball league. George Gray is
really hitting, leading the team in this feature, while the whole team is fielding well. Joe Hunter leads the Centennials,
winners of this sport last year, in pitching and hitting. The freshmen have shown little yet, and Gordon Smith and
Cokey Branton top the seniors.

John Lee keeps right on pushing the pole vault record up and up, by an inch at a time. His
latest record was set Friday against V.P.I. His vault was 12 ft. 7 3/4 inches, at Blacksburg, nearing 13 ft.
in his last attempt. The track boys claim he keeps his improvement slight to get more publicity. Dick Johnson celebrated
his membership on the track squad of one day by copping first place in the shot put.

BASEBALL vs. SOFTBALL

There is much discussion at present about whether fraternities should play baseball or softball this year. At present, the sport
managers from the various lodges are conducting polls to determine each fraternity’s stand on the question. Present standings show that
the regular national pastime will be in vogue for the fraternity men this season.

Lamont Brown, who will conduct this column next week, has just had another honor bestowed on him. He has been
named to Grier Martin's vacated post to supply the newspapers of the state with Davidson's news. He ought to have
some swell inside dope next week. Whew, now for a two weeks’ lay-off while these ex-editors work again.

DUKE AND CATAWBA WIN OVER WILDCATS IN BASEBALL GAMES

Davidson Is Defeated By North State and Big Five Loop Leaders

QUICK LEADS AT PLATE

Jack Jenkins Pitches Well For Wildcats

Although the Davidson baseball team lost three games last week, they appeared to be much improved. Only the superior playing
of Duke and Catawba kept them out of the win column.

Davidson 4—Catawba 11

Davidson fell before Catawba in Salisbury by a score of 11 to 4. Jenkins led the Wildcats, and Neal was
the battery for Davidson.

Davidson 0—Duke 7

Smith, the Duke sophomore, shut out Davidson on Friday. The Wildcats were unable to score against the Blue Devils.

Davidson 1—Duke 3

Davidson met Duke in their second game on April 18. Partridge scored the lone run for Davidson, sending three hits.
Jack Jenkins pitched well, holding Duke to five hits.

Davidson 4—Catawba 8

Davidson lost to Catawba again, 8-4. Quick led the Wildcats with two hits. The Wildcats were unable to overcome the
early lead Catawba gained in the first two innings. Yearwood pitched until the fifth inning when he was replaced by
Clark.

Frosh Linksters Lose Matches

Pittman Leads Scoring; Lose To Greensboro, Charlotte, And Winston

The freshman golf team competed in three matches last week, losing all three. They met Charlotte High at the Carolina
Golf Course on Thursday, April 16, and lost 13-8. Henderson was the top scorer for Davidson with an 82. Pittman
(D) lost to Hatcher 2-1, Tillotson (D) tied Dixon, Henderson (D) was defeated 2-1, Lillard (D) lost 3-0, and Mullen
won 2-1.

The frosh golf foursome went to Greensboro on Friday, April 17, where they met the Greensboro High team at the
Greensboro Country Club course. The freshmen were beaten 9 1/2 to 8 1/2. Pittman was the medalist with a 72.
Pittman (D) won 3-0 over Holt, who shot an 81; Lillard (D) shot an 84 and was beaten 3-0 by
Lindsay, who shot a 76. Mullen (D) shot an 83 and tied Ford 1 1/2 to 1 1/2. Henderson (D)
lost 2 1/2 to 1/2 to Everett.

The freshmen journeyed to Winston-Salem on Saturday, April 18, where they met their worst defeat of the week, by a
score of 13-5. The Wildkitten foursome played the Winston-Salem High linksmen over the Winston-Salem Country Club course. Pittman was again
the medalist.

CHARLOTTE, N.C. FAUL AND CRYMES, INC. SPORTING GOODS 415 SOUTH TRYON ST.

WINGATE BEATS FRESHMAN NINE

Swede Johnson and Hand Lead Frosh Attack

The Wildkittens baseball nine was defeated here last Friday by Wingate by a score of 19-2. Davidson had five runs,
two hits, and four errors, while Wingate had nineteen runs, twenty-four hits, and three errors.

The line-up of the Davidson and Wingate teams was as follows: For Davidson, Young was pitcher; Hand, catcher; Johnson, first
base; Hemphill, second base; Steer, shortstop; Benfield, third base; Deaton, left field; McCall, center field; and J. Erwin, right field.
For Wingate, McIntyre was pitcher; Collins, catcher; Harper, first base; Croom, second base; Finley, shortstop; Talley, third base; Ross, left
field; Jackson, center field; and Ochiltree, right field.

In the fifth inning, Staire replaced Young as pitcher for Davidson. In the seventh inning, Connor replaced Staire at second
base. In the eighth inning, Fowler replaced Connor, and Pope replaced Fowler.

FALL BASKETBALL TO BE HELD NEXT YEAR

Spring Basketball Brings Out Ten Students

Every night at 7:30 in the gymnasium, Coach Laird has been drilling his “boys” in the fundamentals of basketball in
order to have a good team next year. For the time being, the basketballers have been shooting, passing, and doing
floor work to acquire that fine touch needed in basketball. Those out for spring basketball this year are John Armstrong,
Dick Cathey, Ned and Dan Iverson, Ken Knorr, Bill Kiesewetter, Jack Lee, Lawrence Reid, Newton Smith, and Tom Talmadge.

Coach Laird is also planning a fall basketball session during the football season for all those not able to go
out for spring basketball and who will not be participating in any fall sport.

Frosh Tennis Team To Play Winston, P.J.C.

The Wildkitten netmen will face a busy weekend Friday and Saturday. First, they meet the powerful Reynolds High netters of
Winston-Salem and later play in a return match here against the Blue Ridge courtmen.

Verble Instructs

Ira (Midge) Verble is conducting a class of instruction in the art of manly defense. He holds this class in
the upper room of the old gymnasium. Verble makes no charge for these lessons, and anyone interested in taking advantage
of this opportunity may do so by seeing him. Midge is a football letterman and won the 155-lb. crown in
the intramural boxing contests.

The Davidson golf team, pictured above, has been shooting excellent golf this season, defeating some of the best teams in
the South. The members, reading from left to right, are: George Cowan, Charlie Ross, Bill Snow, Ralph McClelland, Henson Maples,
and Jimmy Westall. At present, they are at Athens for the Southern Golf Meet.

GOBBLERS WIN OVER WILDCAT TRACKMEN

Varsity and Freshmen Lose Blacksburg Meets

Virginia Tech showed their heels to the Wildcat track varsity at Blacksburg last Saturday, April 17, as they scored a
78-48 victory. Two records fell and two others were equaled on the cold and windswept field.

John Lee broke the Davidson College record in the pole vault once more with a height of 12 feet 7
3/4 inches. The hundred-yard dash was run by Pritchard of Tech in 9.8 seconds. Faison, Davidson sprinter, ran the century
in 9.9 seconds. Time on the 220-yard dash was 21.8 seconds, and it was also won by Pritchard. Merchant won
the two-mile run in 10:29.6, and Brown placed second. Mothershead of Tech took both the mile and half-mile, with Parcell
of Davidson taking second in the mile run. Barrow of Davidson placed second in the 220-yard low hurdles, while Wicker
and Parker were second and third in the 120-yard high hurdles.Davidson gained points with thirds by Gregory in the 440-yard
dash and by Dickson in the hundred. Dick Johnson won the shot put with a distance of 37 feet 4
inches. The broad jump of 20 feet 4 3/4 inches was made by Dickson, who placed second in the event.
Fort tied in the pole vault, which Pittman won, and Lee Tipton scored a third in the discus. Johnson tallied
three points with a second place in the javelin.

V. P. I. Frosh 63; Davidson Frosh 54

Tech and Davidson freshmen split six firsts each and a tie in the pole vault, although Tech led by nine
points (Continued on Page 6).

Veteran Mat Men Out For Spring Work-Outs

Prospects for next year’s wrestling team look up as spring training comes to a close. Five veteran wrestlers return next
year. They are: Bixler, Blue, Brown, Davis, and Parker. Those who are out for spring wrestling are as follows: Bixler,
Brown, Clark, Crisp, Davis, Ellis, Gamble, McIntyre, and Parker. Other wrestlers who are out for spring sports but will be
on the mat next year are: Benfield, Blue, and Walker. Next year there will be an intramural wrestling tournament open
to all who have received neither numerals nor a letter in wrestling. The contenders in this tournament will be grouped
in weight classes and will be coached by varsity wrestlers. The men winning in each class will receive an award,
and the coach from the varsity who has trained the best wrestler will also receive an award.

BRING YOUR GIRL TO THE DEB

DAVIDSON, N. C.
Open All Friday Night—Part of Saturday Night
ALSO OPEN AFTER THE DANCE
12:00 SUNDAY NIGHTS

SOPHOMORES DEFEAT SENIORS IN SOFTBALL
Reach Second Place in Intramurals By Victory

By virtue of an 18-9 defeat of the seniors Monday afternoon, the sophomores climbed into second place in the intramural
athletics competition. The seniors, winning the only official game of last week, still retained a comfortable lead, having 90 points
as against 62 1/2 for the sophomores, while the freshmen seem safely in the cellar with only 47 1/2 points.
With tennis and golf competition still to be played, anybody may win.

In the senior game Monday, Lyerly, the pitcher, was unable to keep the driving sophomores from hitting the ball in
the latter innings. Cokey Branton pitched for a short time, but walks and several hits against him resulted in his
displacement by Lyerly again. Brittain of the sophs managed to hold the seniors to four runs through the fifth inning,
and then Jim Dooley pitched for the sophomores. Willard Dixon caught throughout the entire game for their teams. Home runs
by Cothran and Gilks featured the batting of the sophomores, and Gilks fielded well at the hot corner. Gilks knocked
out one circuit blow, lost the ball in the first half of the inning. The man up for the shining
horsehide lifted it up to the top of the Eagle's Nest, where it stuck behind the chimney.

Tuesday afternoon, sophomore-junior and senior-freshman games were scheduled. Today the sophomores met the juniors. Tomorrow the sophomores and juniors clash
again, while the seniors and freshmen have their second fracas of the season. Friday the sophomores will play the seniors
again. Tennis was to have begun on Tuesday, with the seniors meeting the freshmen. Golf will not be started until
next week. The teams have not been announced, and the membership of the teams will not be known until after
the first matches.

CAT GOLFERS DOWN WOFFORD, CATAWBA; BUT LOSE TO U.N.C. NET TEAM

Lewis, Kenney Enter State Tennis Tournament

The varsity tennis team, made up of Captain Lewis, Kenney, Bell, and Erskine, downed one-sided match played here Thursday afternoon,
April 16. Captain Lewis, Kenney, Bell, Carlson, Frampton, and Manager Knox left Monday morning, April 20, on a trip with
matches scheduled with N.C. State on that afternoon, Duke on Tuesday afternoon, and University of North Carolina this afternoon. Lewis
and Kenney will compete in the State Intercollegiate Tournament to be held in Chapel Hill on Thursday, Friday, and Saturday,
April 23, 24, and 25. However, the rest of the team will return to the campus tonight after the match
in Chapel Hill.

FROSH TRACK TEAM WHIPS PJC, 96-21
Wildkittens Win Eleven of Thirteen Events

The Wildkitten track team swamped Presbyterian Junior College 96-21 on Richardson Field April 14. The freshmen took eleven out of
thirteen events as eighteen members of the squad tallied. Frank Harrison, high scorer for Davidson, won the hundred and 220-yard
dashes, placed second in the 220-yard low hurdles, and tied for second in the pole vault. The hundred was run
in 10.7 with Johnny Tice finishing second. Time on the 220-yard dash was 24.2 and 28.5 for the low hurdles.
Tice led Harrison in the hurdles and placed second in the broad jump to follow up in point totals. Walker
placed first and second respectively in the mile and the half. The mile was run in 4:46.5, and Wilson won
third place in the event for Davidson. Patterson placed third in the 880-yard run which was run in 2:09.5. McClelland
threw the discus 109 feet 4 inches to win the event, and Lee gained second place. The shot put went
to Warden with Miller second with a distance of 44 feet 8 1/2 inches. The first two places in the
javelin were won by Johnson and Boyd at 157 feet 4 inches. Boyd jumped 19 feet 10 1/2 inches to
win the broad jump. Sample won the pole vault for Davidson at 10 feet, while Harrison and Rice tied for
second (Continued on Page 6).

Team Will Enter Southern Inter-Collegiate Tourney At Athens

TO BE GONE ALL WEEK
Play Wofford, Emory, and U. of Georgia on Trip

The Wildcat linksmen continued their successful playing last week by winning two matches and dropping one. On Wednesday they downed
the Catawba team by a score of 12-6, lost to the Carolina Tar Heels Friday 13-5, and whitewashed Wofford Saturday,
18-0. The match with the Indians was played at Salisbury and Lockridge of Catawba was medalist with a 72.

Davidson (5) vs. Carolina (13)
Harris (NC) 3 over Snow 0. Kirvan (NC) 3 over McClellan 0. Ross (D) 3 over Hicks 0. Hamilton (NC)
3 over Cowan 0. Kirvan-Harris (NC) 2 1/2 over Snow-McClelland 1/2. Ross-Cowan (D) 1 1/2 tied Hicks-Hamilton 1 1/2. Harris
of Carolina was medalist with a 75.

Davidson (18) vs. Wofford (0)
In this match all the Davidsons did much better than on the preceding day. Charlie Ross turned in a 74
for medal honors, but he was closely pushed by McClelland and Cowan with 75’s. Snow had a 76. The match
results were: Ross (D) 3 over Bowman 0, Cowan (D) 3 over Kilgo 0, Snow (D) 3 over Ferguson 0,
McClelland (D) 3 over Lancaster 0, Ross-Cowan (D) 3 over Bowman-Kilgo 0, Snow-McClelland (D) 3 over Ferguson-Lancaster 0.

The team will be away from the campus all this week and have a full schedule. On Monday they met
Wofford again at Spartanburg. On Tuesday they journeyed to Atlanta for a match with Emory University. In Athens, Wednesday, they
meet the University of Georgia for the second time this season. For the last three days of the week, they
will be playing in the Southern Intercollegiate tourney, slated to be held at Athens. This should be a highly successful
trip as the Cats have already proved that they are better than Georgia and Wofford. In the Southern tournament last
year, they finished in sixth place and should do better with the same team back again. Besides the regular team
of Captain Bill Snow, Charlie Ross, George Cowan, and “Jelly” McClelland, Hinson Maples is making this trip and will play
in the tournament.

Sounds too shrill to be heard are produced by miniature fog-horns on Harvard's table-top "sea" used to study ocean signaling.

UNDERGRAD CLOTHES
“Cheer Leaders” daring, colorful, different fabrics... smartness from the word “go!” And models... yes, some very new ideas. “Cheer Leaders”
are decidedly off the beaten path. Nine chances out of ten you'll like them... nine out of ten do!

$27.50 $39.50
TATE-BROWN CO.
College Shop Third Floor
UNDER-GRAD. CLOTHES
