WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 21, 1936

THE DAVIDSONIAN

College Pharmacy Holds Reopening Sale Thursday

Feature of Day Was Presentation of Radio and Davidson Blanket

LARGE CROWD ON HAND

Winners Are Mrs. P. H. Gwynn and Tony Casali

No, that wasn’t a parade that you saw on Main Street Thursday. The College Pharmacy was giving away samples of
candy and chewing gum while the whole student body was trying to crowd into the drug store at once. With
cries of “I'm next!" and “Quit shoving, will you?" boys packed themselves eight deep in front of the counter, their
hands and Freshman caps hopefully outstretched for some of the candy. Feet were stepped on, boys were knocked down, and
at times even the counter tottered, but there were no casualties and all lived to tell the tale.

The feature of the day was the presentation of a radio and a Davidson blanket to the grand prize winners.
Everyone who visited the pharmacy during the day placed a piece of paper with his or her name on it
in a box. When the drawing was held at 8 P.M., Mrs. P. H. Gwynn was awarded the radio and
Tony Casali, of the freshman class, won the blanket.

(Continued on Page 6)

DR. LINGLE TO SPEAK AT CHURCH MEETING

Dr. Walter L. Lingle is to be one of the main speakers at the first convention of the newly-formed North
Carolina Council of Churches, which is to be held in Winston-Salem, on October 26-28. Dr. Lingle also has the honor
of being the first president of the council. This organization is a type of inter-denominational federation such as is found
in other states of the Union and in the nation as a whole.

The program for the convention was released through Dr. Trela D. Collins, executive secretary of the council, of Durham. Included
in the program are many of the most prominent religious leaders in the state and nation. Several universities are represented
by speakers from their divinity schools. Other church federations have also furnished men to appear on the program.

SPEED, PRECISION, QUALITY...

BUFF SHOE SHOP

“When It’s Done By Buff That’s Enuff”

O. C. BUFF, Prop.

For Excellent Food at Reasonable Prices

Tasty Sandwiches Steaks - - - Chops

Dixie Restaurant & Cigar Store

Corner Opp. Selwyn Hotel

Town Tattle

Miss Mary Withers visited her parents, Mr. and Mrs. J. R. Withers, the past weekend. She is attending W. C.
U. N. C. in Greensboro this year.

The Davidson Hi-Y club held tap day for the new members in Davidson Chapel Friday morning. The new men who
were tapped are Ed Erwin, Jimmy Maxwell, Henry Cole, Ed Church, Price Gwynn, Crane Blackwelder, and Spencer Cher.

This is the order in which various members of the high school were tapped by the members of the club.

Mr. and Mrs. Hamilton visited their son, Mr. Hamilton, the past weekend. Mr. Hamilton is pastor of the Presbyterian Church
in Roxboro.

Mrs. C. L. Ives was called home last Saturday because of the death of her aunt and attended the funeral
with her children.

Mr. and Mrs. Franklin Gaffney are away in Raleigh. Mr. Gaffney is attending a conference. They will return Friday.

Miss Christine Mooney, now teaching at Lattimore High School, is spending her regular vacation in Davidson with her parents.

Mr. Allison, now studying at the University of Virginia, spent last weekend with his parents. Allison graduated from Davidson College
in 1936.

Last week Mrs. J. R. Burwell visited relatives in South Carolina. She returned the latter part of the week.

Miss Sarah Withers returned home Saturday from Washington, D. C., to prepare for her wedding to take place on Saturday,
October 24.

O.D.K. Tap Day Will Be Observed Soon

Omicron Delta Kappa tap day will be held within the next two weeks, although arrangements have not yet been completed.
No definite date has been set because the principal speaker and the present members of O.D.K. have not agreed upon
a convenient date.

O.D.K. is a national honorary fraternity recognizing leadership. The present members will meet Tuesday night to select the campus leaders
who are to be issued bids in connection with a chapel program sponsored by the fraternity. Members of the senior
class who were tapped last spring are Wade Boggs, Carl Carlson, Tom Corbin, Walt Dickson, and Jim Morton.

SERVICE... SATISFACTION

DAVIS Barber Shop

See the Man That Wears Our Work

-Davidson Theatre-

Wed. Oct. 21 SING BABY SING

Thurs.-Fri. Oct. 22-23 ANTHONY ADVERSE

Sat. Oct. 24 BIG BROADCAST

Mon.-Tues. Oct. 26-27 LIBELED LADY

Adolph Menjou, The Ritz Brothers, Alice Faye, Ted Healy, Gregory Ratoff, and Patsy Kelly in a hilarious farce.

Featuring Frederick March and Olivia de Havilland.

A Mixture of Shirley Ross, Jack Benny, Burns and Allen, Bob Burns, Frank Forest, Benny Fields, and Benny Goodman’s Orchestra.Stars
in one Picture—Jean Harlow, William Powell, Myrna Loy, and Spencer Tracy

Mason PRES! WAKE FOREST DENT
Herburt Coclurchy TREASURER, DUKE
24th of October, Davidson College

NEW R.O.T.C. POSTS IN GREAT DEMAND
Opportunities Open in Service For Advanced Military Students

Twenty-five colleges and universities have asked for new R.O.T.C. training units which will be instituted this fall. The new units
will increase the number of students receiving military training from 127,500 to 150,000. At present, 324 units are providing specialized
training in different military branches in 254 educational institutions.

Military training is not a course thrust into the educational institutions by the War Department, but one for which instructors
are furnished upon the request of the governing board of the institution concerned. There are many opportunities for graduates of
R.O.T.C. units to secure temporary employment with the armed forces of the United States, with a possibility of permanent detail.
Among these details available is service with the C.C.C. for six months or longer. The pay of a Second Lieutenant
is approximately $105 per month, with an allowance amounting to $55 per month to pay for his board and clothing.
Duty may be obtained with the Regular Army for a one-year period under the provisions of the Thomason Act. A
certain number of these men will be admitted to a permanent commission at the end of a year’s service. Active
duty may be had for two weeks each year, this being only a temporary detail.

Davidson College is honored to be among the institutions offering this opportunity. The Marine Corps also offers similar opportunities, with
a certain number of graduates being admitted to a permanent commission annually. Successful applicants are given one month’s leave with
full pay before they are assigned to two years of active duty.

(Continued on Page 6)

SHAVING CREAM
TOOTH PASTE
All Standard Brands
SOUTHERN 5 & 10c Store

Pictured above are the officers of the North Carolina Collegiate Press Association who will be the presiding officers at a
meeting of the Association which will be held at Charlotte from the 22nd to the 24th of October. Davidson College
will be host of the meeting, with Jim Morton, Editor of The Davidsonian, and Hoke Robinson, Business Manager of The
Davidsonian, representing the paper.

I.R.C. Will Present First Program of Year Friday
Several Committees Appointed at Initial Meeting
Communism and Fascism to Be Topic at Meeting

NEW ADVISORY SYSTEM
Both Faculty and Student Advisors Watch Over Freshmen Welfare

FIFTEEN TO ONE RATIO
"Y" Cabinet Serves En Masse With Fifteen Professors

The college has provided fifteen faculty and student advisors to watch over the freshmen and help them adjust to college
life. The faculty advisors meet with the freshmen before the beginning of the orientation period and are able to help
their advisees from the first day. The members of the "Y" Cabinet also serve as advisors.

(Continued on Page 6)

CAR FOR RENT
RENT A CAR
Cheap Rates . . . Good Service
—See—
M. P. Henderson
BILL BUSBY
GULF GAS & OIL
At College Pharmacy

SINGLE and DOUBLE BREASTED DINNER SUITS...Or TAILS
Your evening will be perfect when you wear formal clothes from Tate-Brown’s. You'll enjoy that gratifying feeling of mental and
physical comfort . . . that pleasurable sense of social security ... which always comes with the knowledge that your
attire is authentically correct in every detail . . . in style . . . in fabric . . .
in elegance of tailoring.

SINGLE OR DOUBLE BREASTED TUXEDOS $27.50
FULL DRESS SUITS $35

Tate-Brown Co
COLLEGE SHOP - THIRD FLOOR

P. H. HANES KNITTING CO., Winston-Salem, N.C.
