THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 30, 1936

The Davidsonian
Founded By the Class of 1915

1935 Member 1936
Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate year.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879.

ARTICLES FOR PUBLICATION must be in the hands of Managing Editors by 4:00 o'clock p.m., Monday. Letters to the Editor
are welcome, but all communications intended for publication must be signed.

VINE MORTON ................................ Editor
R. H. ROBINSON .......................... Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
OWEN COOKE .................. Managing Editor
Sam COTHRAN ................. Managing Editor
IGCUID WANT .................. Managing Editor
IBGTOR VICGRAGHY .......... Managing Editor
DIGK VIOWLES .................. Managing Editor
MATES HATSON .................. Sports Editor
HARRY KUVKENDADIS ....... Associate Editor
IOWEGLE OVERTON .......... Associate Editor
HAROLD SUGG .................. Associate Editor
RAYMOND TURNER .......... Associate Editor
JOHN WINN ...................... Associate Editor
NWWHIESON COWRANGH .... Circulation Manager

Circulation - Collection - Advertising Manager
Ralph CHANDLER - Charles Moore

The great essentials of happiness are something to do, something to love, and something to hope for. — Dr. Chalmers.

ACTIVITIES
Every freshman should enter some field of extra-curricular activity. It gives you an opportunity to meet the members of your
class and other classes who you will have to live with for four years, gives you something to be interested
in, and it will give you a chance to employ your leisure time in a very beneficial manner. Do not
enter so many fields of outside interest as will prevent you from allotting the necessary time to studying.

VICTORY
The Davidson Wildcats played top football against the State Wolfpack, emerging victorious by a score of six to two. The
“Cats outplayed their scrappy opponents at every turn throughout the entire game. This was indeed a great day for Davidson,
as this marked the first victory over State by the Wildcats in several years or any other college in the
Big Five with the exception of Wake Forest. Doc Newton’s tutelage proved its worth against the heavily favored players of
Coach Hunk Anderson, former Notre Dame coach. Navy defeated W. & M. in a hard-fought game only by a score
of 18-6. The Wildcats will travel up to Annapolis, where we predict another success for Davidson.

DANCING
Wake Forest students held a meeting immediately after returning to college and unanimously voted to abolish dancing on the campus
after the trustees had granted the privilege. Action taken by students of the Baptist school to withdraw their petition for
dancing resulted from the general resentment of the Baptist congregation all over the South. Several professors had been instrumental in
obtaining the dancing privilege, and direct action was going to be taken against these instructors by the Baptist following if
the students had not acted as they did.

BASEBALL
We are wondering where the Davidson baseball teams will toss and knock 'em this year? The new stands on the
east side of Richardson Field will make it impossible for games to be held on the old diamond. Perhaps we
will end up on the drill field where the freshmen have practiced in the past; then where the freshmen will
go will be the next question!

ADVERTISERS
Patronize concerns that advertise in The Davidsonian. They are the ones who help make it possible for this publication to
be printed each week. Look over (Continued on Column 5)

37 to ’40—Advice
“To whom much is given, of him shall much be required.” As we turn to that traditional advice to freshmen,
the above comes to our mind. Certainly no class has ever entered Davidson under better auspices than the one of
1940. The administration informs us that it is more carefully selected, better equipped for college than any preceding group of
freshmen. A well-planned orientation program helped those first days of homesickness and confusion to pass quickly. And so, freshmen, you
have gotten off on the right foot as far as the college could help you. The priceless heritage of a
hundred years of service is yours for the taking. You are invited to share in our traditions and our friendliness.
But your responsibility, after all, is to learn. Remember your studies. Your carefully chosen instructors are among the best, and
they have made Davidson what she is. Take part in several extra-curricular activities; they will make your campus life more
satisfying and complete. Lastly, MAKE FRIENDS. Mingle with your classmates and fellow-students, the faculty and townspeople. Such associations will later
seem the most valuable of your undergraduate experiences. Many things are required of you, class of '40; may you fulfill
them all, and knowledge is, after all, your prime reason for being here. Cherish our traditions.

Campus Comments
Many persons who read this article will perhaps not be in agreement with what I have to say. It will,
however, be accepted and approved by the students who are more mature in their thinking. Those students who recognize such
a need in our Student Body. Occupying the position I do, I can perhaps feel this need more than others.
This country of ours has less regard for those men who are in executive positions than any other country in
the world. We have never been required, as the English for example, to reverence the Crown. We have held the
idea, and rightly so, that any one should dominate our actions. Consequently, we have been prone to develop the feeling
of independence to such an extent that we sometimes fail to offer respect where such respect is due. There are
a great number of factors, of course, which bring about this lack of respect. These factors I shall not mention
here, as we are all familiar with them. Even in a country as America where there is such a lax
feeling of esteem for even our President, we find laws compelling the people to respect the office he holds. In
this editorial I’m not referring to anything that has happened in the Student Body this year. On the whole, the
conduct in chapel has been complementary, and such attention and attitude has been appreciated. If I thought such would continue
of its own accord, I would hesitate to write this article. In times past, the students have of their own
volition become rowdy and disrespectful to the speaker or presiding officer. By doing so they have often forced the presiding
officer into making compromises which didn’t result altogether in orderly conduct. It is not only a matter of being courteous
to your speaker or presiding officer, but it is also a matter of respecting the office he holds. One of
the most distressing things to me since I’ve been at Davidson has been the lack of respect we have sometimes
shown the President of our College. We don’t do it intentionally, of course. We never think of it that way,
but that’s what it amounts to. I don’t ask any undue personal respect, but I do demand the respect that’s
due the office I hold. No matter what you may think of me, or the other men who hold similar
offices on the campus, you should recognize and appreciate the responsibility of their positions. As I mentioned beforehand, the Student
Body’s attitude this year has been most respectful. I wonder, though, how true that would be if a meeting of
the Student Council had been called in chapel. Judging from the past attitude of the students on such an occasion,
and from fear that such disrespect would continue, it has become necessary to have that body meet unknown to the
Student Body. That to me is something we should all be ashamed to admit in public. After the appearance of
this article and when the occasion arises that a meeting of the Council is called in chapel, I hope the
Student Body will have an entirely different reaction from that which it has shown in the past. Perhaps you don’t
think this matter of displaying respect to your officers, speakers, and councilmen of any consequence. I feel, however, (Continued on
Column 5)

DAVIDSON IN A NUTSHELL
This column is no longer a question mark, for it has, since its first appearance, acquired a name. There is
more to that name than appears on the surface, too. The hull column comes from a cracked nut; so did
the name, for that matter.

Last Saturday was one of the best days for gridiron fans that this season is likely to offer. Kept by
a cruel fate from seeing any of the games played in this section, Kernel listened to the Duke-Colgate game all
afternoon. And decided Ted Husing should have a medal for his handling of those jaw-breaker names.

Saturday night the grid-graph drew almost every boy on the campus, and a number of people from off the campus
as well. There was as much excitement in Shearer that night as there could have been in a full grandstand.
And when Bugg tackled Armfield; who was it that yelled “Quick, Henry! The Flit!” And later, as that aerial attack
had us worried, “A pass, by Gadd!”

We hope that next weekend the graph will give us as clear a picture of the sinking of the Navy
as it gave of the fall of the Wolfpack. If Kernel can’t SEE the splash, he at least wants to
HEAR it.

Freshman field has been the scene of a number of unusual sights since Kernel entered school, but the first few
drills of this year have passed them all. In the first place, the question “Do you want your uniform too
big or too little?” is no joke on this campus; it’s a stern reality. Private Johnny Frosh is always either
stepping on his shirt sleeves, or trying to keep his shirt tails out of his eyes.

Then, too, a great majority of the remarkable Class of '40 have no idea whatsoever which is right and which
is left. That'sOne of those facts of life which everyone has got to face at one time or another; their
mothers should have told them, or boys have to pay. At the next drill, rifles will be used. There is
a movement afoot to have a corps of doctors on hand to attend to the broken heads; the broken guns
will have to take care of themselves.

—o—

The streaks of lightning over the entrance to the Student Store seem to be symbolism of the most sinister sort.
Who can pass through those portals and remain for any period at all without experiencing a very real “lightening” of
his pocket-book? Or were they just put there to use up left-over paint?

—o—

Since beginning the study of political science, Kernel is very worried about two things: the spiritual welfare of A, and
the physical state of B. In every class so far, A has shot B. Catlike, B lasts through killing after
killing. By now he must look like a Swiss cheese.

—o—

Last Tuesday night, wiping the sweat of a week’s more or less honest labor off their brows, fraternity men gathered
in the court for the annual ceremony of pledging. Kernel went the rounds of the houses after these ceremonies were
over. He managed to keep all five fingers on his right hand, but only by taking a careful count of
them as he left each house. He shook thin hands, fat hands, hot, cold, wet, and dry hands. Quick, Henry,
the liniment!

—o—

Cheerleader Vogler and his men might have been cooking up something new in the way of gymnastic tricks for performance
at a game in the near future, we are told. Before long, instead of throwing cough drops to the stands,
they will wait after their act for the stands to throw them peanuts.

WILL YOU ANSWER...

TO WHOM IT MAY CONCERN:

It won't be long until we hear similar tales: Are you so homely that you always look at the reverse
side of a pocket mirror to keep from scaring yourself to death? Do you sleep with your face in the
pillow just to be kind to burglars? Do men dodge you when you walk down the street instead of Packarding
or Rolls-Roycing you? Are you knock-kneed, cross-eyed, pigeon-toed, and hawk-nosed? Do you have to pretend that every day is Hallowe'en
before you have the courage to go downtown? Are you the kind of girl that jealous wives like their husbands
to go out with? Are you lantern-jawed and drooped-lipped? Do you pray for rain so that you can hide behind
an umbrella? Are you sixteen and never been kissed? Do crooners swoon when you look at the radio? Do your
hands dangle below your knees, and do your pair of shoes equal one cow? Are you sealed to the phone
every five minutes to turn down a side-show offer? Do you protect yourself from peeping Toms by leaving the shades
up? Now then, take stock of yourself. Get a toe-hold in the street and crack the mirror with one good
stare. Are you the female described above? If so, sister, I'll pay you five dollars spot-cash for an answer to
this article. All you have to do is drop me a line and tell me the hiding place of that
dizzy, long-eared bum who dug you up for me on a blind date last Saturday night—Penn Punch Bowl.

POLITICAL CRAP GAME

ELECTIONS ARE NEAR

From now until November, parties and candidates will spend millions of dollars and countless hours in public convincing the American
voter whom to vote for and why. Radios will be filled with the din of some of the worst orators
who ever graced the country. Billboards will announce spectacular declarations. Newspapers will fill page after page with pictures, speeches, and
statements of their particular candidate. Newsreels will give theater patrons a chance to see the aspirants. Magazines will carry articles
by famous journalists and officials. In short, every device known to modern-day living will be used in an effort to
tear down or build up a candidate.

The American voter, long known for his gullibility, seldom lets careful thought and thorough determination of the candidate's merits reflect
his final decision. Slander, an important and perhaps impossible role in every political campaign, will be used to a great
extent on this type of voter. To further baffle the voter, bosses will endeavor to threaten the jobs of their
workers should they vote for the opponent. Warnings will be issued from most reactionary organizations as a means of frightening
voters into doing as they wish.

The wise voter will carefully study the important factors involved in the campaign. He will determine what periodicals represent what
party and then consider the policies of that respective newspaper. He will recognize the accomplishments of the candidates from propaganda
and exploitation. He will remember that in the polls he can secretly vote for whom he pleases and not for
whom he is asked to vote for. If possible, he should shut his ears to any vicious slander and gossip
and believe half of what he hears. Then, and only then, will America have the kind of government that present-day
conditions forbid.

Los Angeles Junior Collegian.

CALL US “GENTLEMEN”

GREETING ON THE CAMPUS

Every year it is necessary to remind the freshman class that Davidson students speak, that they speak cordially. We notice
that this freshman class is composed of men who do not speak at all, men who nod half-heartedly, and only
a few who really show the spirit of Davidson friendliness. We hope that it will not be necessary to call
the attention of the Student Body and the freshman class to this subject again. Speak, freshmen. Use the word “Gentlemen.”
Is not such a custom as this worthy of being continued?

It might be well at this time to remind the upperclassmen that they should set the example for the freshmen
to follow. There are very few upperclassmen who do not speak but there should be none. Help continue this custom
that sets the campus off from others in the state.

Taken By Mistake...

Ad in The Daily Princetonian: “Will the gentleman who wrapped his girl in one of the Colonial Club curtains please
return it.”

STOLEN THUNDER

By DAYMOND TURNER

Prayer for Classes...

Now I sit me down to sleep,
The lecture’s dry, the subject’s deep.
If he should quit before I wake,
Give me a punch, for goodness sake!

—L.A.J.C.

Political Outlook...

Most predictions indicate that Roosevelt's Garner will occupy the White House for another four years in spite of Hamilton's Knox.

Reel Dope

Wed.-Thurs. Sept. 30-Oct. 1
THE LAST OF THE MOHICANS
Starring Randolph Scott, James F. Cooper's unforgettable novel comes to us on the silver screen. It is an excellent picture
of our early history and courageous forefathers as the Indians were slowly pushed Westward. Scott, a native of North Carolina,
gives a good performance.

Fri-Sat. Oct. 2-3
WOMEN ARE TROUBLE
Stuart Erwin, Paul Kelly, and Errol Taggert’s direction pulls a neat comedy out of a grey-haired story. Kitty McHugh is
convincing as a gunman’s moll. Florence Rice is authentically a cub reporter. You will like it.

Mon.-Tues. Oct. 5-6
SWING TIME
One of the best pictures of the year, starring that great dance team of Fred Astaire and Ginger Rogers. The
whole story is based on the efforts of a gentleman dancer to run twenty-five cents up to a bankroll of
twenty-five thousand dollars, so that he can marry the wrong girl—then he meets the right one. Do not miss this
picture!

Father Divine

Negro Spiritual Leader

Around Harlem floats an aeroplane with a heavenly passenger, thinks many of the denizens of that section of New York.
Our negro subject started life with a funny name, like movie actresses, and saw fit to change it. The first
name selected was Father DEVINE, but being a negro of little education he did not spell his idea correctly, and
with some assistance corrected the alias to FATHER DIVINE. Father Divine is very wealthy now, because his angels, who work
for him gratis, turn approximately $200,000 over to their demagogue monthly. He is the idol of Harlem, they are his
angels. Divine has stepped up the moral character, the general outlook of the Harlem individual. Their creed is similar to
our own, as laid down by Father Divine.

PARAGRAPHICS

(Continued from Column 1)

Read the ads so you will be able to state to any of our customers that you have read his
ad.

PEP MEETINGS...

We all wish it were possible for our pep-meetings to be held again in Shearer Hall. The upper three classes
learned to yell there, and they are still doing pretty good at football games. The dark, cold, spacious stadium meetings
do not have the vim and vigor possessed by the gatherings held in Old Shearer.

GLEE CLUB...

The Glee Club, under the direction of Mr. Thane McDonald, sounded excellent in its initial appearance of the year. It
added much to the Vesper Service.

CAMPUS COMMENTS

(Continued from Column 2)

However, it has been a subject thought about a great deal. Such conduct as practiced in the past has not
led to the best conditions upon the campus, and it is believed that by calling your attention to the matter
such conduct will not appear this year.

WILBUR S. EDWARDS,
Pres. of the Student Body.

P. S.—I request Wade Boggs, President of the Senior Class to write Campus Comments for the next issue of The
Davidsonian.

Hunt’v’le 12; D.H.S. 0!

Led by their star halfback, Ted Spurling, who broke away for repeated long runs, the Huntersville eleven defeated a plucky
but light Davidson High School football team, 12 to 0. The game was played on the freshman field, Friday, September
24. After being outplayed the first half, the strong Huntersville eleven started clicking and rolled up a touchdown in each
of the last quarters. The first followed a recovery of a Davidson fumble by the visitors. The second by a
pass to Spurling, who twisted his way through the Davidson team for twenty yards and a score.

Our Slogan

“Every Job a Good One”

Standard Printing Company
117 Garland Court
Charlotte, N. C.
