THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 5, 1936

Mid-Winters Off The Record

YMCA Considers Campaign For Underprivileged Members of Pan-Hellenic Council.

NOT MILLIONAIRES YET

Scores Disabled In Rush For Wrap Checking Graft.

Funny how the boys change once they get into stiff shirts, tails, or tux. Even freshmen look different. And another
thing, this hat and coat checking business is a racket. Girls look so good in colorful, graceful, curvish evening dresses.
And they all look happy!

Every Mid-Winters seems to leave some characteristic tune. Last year it was “Blue Moon.” Year before then, remember, “The Easter
Parade?” And this time, “Lights Out.” We prefer lights out. Who doesn’t? From now on the big dances should be
dated BFM or AFM, before or after Freddy Martin. The figure is simple and effective, but the decorations! Reminds us
of a window with the curtains off. Each fraternity applauding its own men. Cokey’s girl's graceful walk. Ab Price walking
very fast. Hindu, the people’s choice. Margie and Jean Robinson, Sarah Metz, Lib Gammon, Louise Rankin, Teeny Cooke; popular Davidson
traditionals. From Winston and Mary, just girls Jane Ellen Taylor, Knowlton, among others.

The dance ends, a check reimbursement and the les before the ce. George N. S. Terrell, hard to relinquish. Back
to a cold and snow-crunchy campus. Why can't they hold the heat up late on such nights? Classes next morning
and the professor gives a writ. There ought to be a law. Dinner, and the prosaic boarding house bristling with
femininity.

But before we give the notebook and note Helen Baker, Carolyn Vaughn (Lady Arrowsmith), Susan Rudisill, Jane Wylie, Margaret Pharr,
the many whose names I didn’t spell right and the hundred or so other fair ones who were so fortunate
as not to have me or my secret service. It was a grand affair with one exception. John Partridge had
the “tisma” and Joe Brogpuss.

Johnston Woman Gives Pointers For Good Government

Women Voters Undertake To Warn Americans of Political Dangers

By MRS. SIEGEL W.

These men years of patience and research developed a new conception of service. They speak in trained personnel, “super directors,”
the “administrators,” most potential at grasping new concepts. Can we convince the political parties that they won't be deprived of
patronage? Can we awaken the public to the dangers of an ever-expanding governmental service? Inspire the people with the potentialities
of a public service which offers a career to our college graduates, a career which will make it worthwhile for
young people to invest their time and money in special training and which will offer opportunities to reach the chosen
field? The continued existence of government controlled by the people rather than by a successful dictator in this day is
possible without a trained administration. Women Voters task is to recognize the lurking dangers in securing a qualified service for
the biggest business in the world, this business people pay for. The League has assumed a tremendous task; it means
almost revolutionizing public thinking. Yet it offers an undeniable challenge to all who believe that our government should be one
of politicians, by politicians, and for politicians, but that it should be a government controlled by the people which, through
the employment of its personnel on a merit basis, will render the highest degree of service for the people.

MUSIC SCHOOL WILL BE HELD

(Continued from Page 1)

The country will be brought in to teach the various phases. The music school camp will not interfere with the
regular college summer session which will be run from June 8 to July 17. Students attending the college summer session
will be allowed to take courses in the music school.

Not the student body

Editors Unite Against Rule

Meeting of NSFA Reveals Dangers of Faculty “Guidance”

By Associated Collegiate Press

New York. (ACP) College editors want no control by American faculty members, no matter how far it may be from
actual censorship. That was the opinion vigorously expressed at a conference of more than 50 editors held recently in New
York under the auspices of the National Student Federation of America.

“Faculty advisers,” said one editor, “usually wind up being autocrats instead of advisers,” and the subsequent discussion brought out a
smouldering resentment against existing forms of faculty control and a wide demand for more freedom of the undergraduate press in
many directions. Other sore points were the matter of remuneration of editorial and business staffs and varying methods of choosing
workers for top staff positions.The editors were told they ought to be increasingly aware of their opportunities for moulding intelligent
opinion along social, political, and economic lines. The “Vassar system” of staff remuneration, the so-called point system for business members,
which calls for the distribution of a certain number of points for each advertisement sold, and division of the profits
at the end of the year in proportion to points amassed, received general approval. General and outspoken disapproval was registered
with the common methods of appointing students to fill ranking staff positions. The holding that they should be elected by
either the staff or the outgoing board, or the English department, nor the deans should have the right to name
managers, was maintained by editors and business delegates.

RANSOM GIVES TALKS
(Continued from Page 1)

A tourist through the South sees the low skyscrapers, the cheap autos, the colleges with low salaries and poor libraries,
all of which form a bad comparison with the riches of the industrial North and East! The South, defeated by
force of arms, has become an agricultural economy to the extent of having sixty percent of the population connected with
agriculture, while the great mechanization of the East has not reached it. But the thing is that the natural mineral
resources of the South have supplied the Eastern capital to such an extent that those resources are now being developed
with the aid of men of business who scent that a new capital is to be found. Professor Ransom pointed
out that agrarianism, bolstered by a limited industrialism, must take the place of this false and too intense regimentation that
is threatening to overrun the South as it overran the East and make it a soul-dead factory land. For it
is overcapitalization and not the visible overproduction that counts; the solution for the difficulty does not lie in every man’s
consuming two loaves of bread where he ate one before. The Agrarians have banded together to work against such misconceptions.
Where the farmer has fallen prey to this industrial betrayal is in putting his money in crops which should be
considered after he has provided for his own necessities—before he has plentiful subsistence. The farmer, being the last stand of
the economic individualist in the country, is of course the only check on the tendency toward ‘big business’ and large-scale
production; and these are the first opening guns of collectivism. Preserve the farmer? Preserve his civilization, and the South's particular
mode of life, say the Agrarians, and we will remain economically free.

DEBATERS ARE TO ENCOURAGE BIG FORENSICS
(Continued from Page 1)

For the last few weeks, a night coaching class in debating has been conducted for the benefit of those taking
part in these debates. Plans have been definitely made for a debate schedule for the freshman debating team. In the
past, the freshman team has not participated in any debates, but was simply a means for finding debating prospects in
the freshman class. Tentative plans are for a dual meet with Wake Forest freshman.

BE A BOOSTER
Boost and the world boosts with you; Knock and you're on the shelf, For the world gets sick of the
one who'll kick And wishes he'd kick himself. When the sun is shining; when it starts to rain, If you
happen to fall, don’t lie there and bawl, But get up and boost Boost Boost again. Boost for your own
advancement; Boost for the things sublime Boost for the chap on the topmost rung Is a booster every time.

Phonograph Records Pianos Everything Musical ANDREWS MUSIC COMPANY N. Tryon St. Charlotte

“Boy! I can breathe now!” Just a few drops of Vicks Va-tro-nol up each nostril reduces swollen membranes, clears stuffiness,
and brings prompt relief. Used in time, helps prevent many colds. VICKS VA-TRO-NOL

MASQUERS TO OFFER PLAY
(Continued from Page 1)

A more power than the Queen and the Parliament wish him to know. Upon discovering this, the King puts down
the revolution and marries the Princess to the Secretary; a few minutes before the agreed wedding between the Prince of
Greece and his daughter. The play closes with the King going to the wedding alone to explain why the Princess
wouldn't show up. The tryouts were held last Wednesday night and last Monday night. The cast has not yet been
definitely decided upon. Practice began yesterday under the supervision of Professor Erwin and directed by ‘Bill’ Higgins. The tentative date
for the presentation of the play is Wednesday, March 4.

Seventy-three nationalities are represented among the 8800 students at Boston University. Beginning next year, M. I. T. will limit its
freshman class to 600.

GREAT SHOW FOR COLLEGE
Friday-Saturday “A NIGHT IN HAVANA” An All Latin-American Revue—Dark-Eyed Senoritas—Fiery Rhumba Dancers. On the Screen “SWEET SURRENDER” with Frank Parker,
Tamara, Abe Lyman, Jack Dempsey. Mon.-Tue.-Wed. “TRANSATLANTIC TUNNEL” Next Wonder of the World—with RICHARD DIX, MADGE EVANS, C. AUBREY SMITH.

The villain proved to be a graduate of the foundation. The students of the music school may take regular college
work. Howard will offer graduate courses in traffic control next year.

REGULAR SIZE 30¢ DOUBLE QUANTITY 50¢

There is one cigarette that writes its own advertising. It’s like this—You see I’m reading a Chesterfield advertisement and I’m
smoking a Chesterfield cigarette, and all of you are smoking Chesterfields. Now listen—Chesterfields are mild (not strong, not harsh). That’s
true isn’t it? Then you read ‘and yet they satisfy, please your taste, give you what you want in a
cigarette.’ That says it, doesn’t it? Wait a minute—now that Chesterfields have plenty of aroma and flavor. One of you
go out of the room and come back. That will tell you how pleasing the aroma is. Chesterfield writes its
own advertising.
