Page Four

CAROLINA TOPS DAVIDSON IN HOMECOMING FEATURE

BY YATES FAISON

They fought—they lost! That's the story of Saturday's defeat at the hands of Coach Wolf's powerful Tar Heels. Picking up
after mediocre performances against Citadel and Furman, the Wildcats were unfortunate enough to hit the Carolina gridders in the finest
form they have shown this year. They were really keyed up to a peak. With Duke facing them this week
in a crucial contest, the question arises as to whether or not they reached their peak too soon. Will they
be in a spirit to repeat their performance?

Davidson Stars Still

Davidson had its stars: Teeny Lafferty, after a two-game slump, showed that zipping form that distinguished his play in the
early season. He was the "Pop-Eye and Tor" of Duke, State, and Navy. Ed Armfield, bothered by a bruised knee,
played a jam-up game. Fred Dennis develops more every game. Tom Corbin played his heart out despite his bunged-up knee.
Bailey Williams was again the star of the aerial attack, snagging almost impossible chances to gain ground. John Lee was
an unyielding, aggressive power on the other flank. Joe Hunter was a blanket in himself when covering punts, while Graham
and Warden were strong on the other side.

Purdy Blocks Kick

Dick Johnson, hampered with a game knee, and Jim Johnston, slowed down by a bruised shin, caught the brunt of
the attack and more than held their own. Frank Purdy was an outstanding backer-upper on defense, his passes were accurate,
and he snapped Tom Burnette’s string of consecutive extra points after touchdown at twelve when he blocked Burnette’s try after
the first touchdown.

Coach Wolf Lauds

Coach Wolf, after the game, said, “I've only been in North Carolina a short while, but I've heard more nice
things about Davidson—her spirit, her team, and all that goes to make up Davidson—than any other college I ever knew.
Teeny Lafferty, Ed Armfield, Charlie Sears, Bailey Williams, Jim Johnston, and that number 47 (Warden) looked good to me.”

In the dressing room, the Carolina players were not without marks of the conflict. Tom Burnette, ace kicker, said Lafferty
was the man who looked best to him and still wanted to know how Bailey Williams snatched that long pass
out of his very fingertips. Andy Bershak, Carolina's great end, echoed Burnette’s choice of Lafferty.

Vote Today

The annual Observer vote for an All-State team is opening now. Let's all get together and send in a selection.
Davidson has always had at least one man on this aggregation, and, with the best team in the history of
this school in recent years, we shouldn't fall down on these men now. Don't you care enough for these men
to merely send in a vote to get them a place? Get busy—send in your vote today!

The poor freshmen took a thorough licking at the hands of a heavy South Carolina team. A freshman line with
an average of 204 pounds repulsed every Kitten effort to gain ground. However, the only sure gainer for the baby
Gamecocks (204-pound babies) was their spread play. (Page the All-Americans!) These Kittens, however, never gave up, according to their coach,
and fought a gallant, losing fight.

Razzle-Dazzle

The most confusing hocus-pocus system of football shown Saturday was displayed by a squad of spectators seated behind the goal
posts at the north end of the field.

Davidson and Centre Meet In Charlotte

Observers Expect Thriller When Two Strong Teams Meet Saturday

CATS ARE FAVORITES

Schools Rich in Tradition and Fighting Spirit

Davidson plays Centre College in Charlotte. November 11th. To some, this may mean nothing; to some, it may mean everything,
but to many spectators, it should mean a great ball game. This is the first meeting between the two teams
and promises to be a thriller.

Small College

Centre was established as Central College of Kentucky at Danville in the year 1819. It is rich in tradition, and
it is universally recognized as one of the outstanding smaller institutions of the South. It has a student body of
a little over four hundred. Centre is the college that was represented by the famous “Praying Colonels” of the early
20th century. This team was undefeated, beating such teams as Harvard, Yale, and others of the stronger set, and placed
two players on the “All-America” team. Centre’s outstanding victory to date is that over the powerful Xavier eleven, 26-12. In
its game last week, it trounced a good Georgetown (Ky.) team 18-8. Purdum is their backfield star.

Desired Foe

For a number of years, Davidson has attempted to schedule a game with Centre, but due to difficulties in arranging
for a date, they have been unable to do so. The fine sportsmanship and record of the Colonels have set
them as a foe to be desired. As is the case with Davidson, the words “Centre” and “fight” go hand
in hand. This fighting spirit prevails off as well as on the campus; therefore, when Davidson meets the descendants of
the “Praying Colonels,” they will be in for the battle of their lives. Two teams that never cease fighting until
the final whistle blows will do battle Saturday. Let’s all of us go down and ride to victory with the
Wildcats.

KITTEN RUNNERS LOSE TO LEES-MCRAE TEAM

Meet With Carolina to Be Held Here Friday

34-seconds record set last year, a strong Lees-McRae cross-country team took a hard-fought meet from the Davidson freshmen runners over
a mile and eight-tenths course, 20-35, last Saturday morning. Burgess had a time of 9 minutes, 32.5 seconds, 1.5 seconds
faster than the previous record set in 1935 by Woodward and Walker. This was the second meet for the freshman
team, and although defeated, this was the fastest they had ever run the course. They will meet the University of
North Carolina team here this Friday and run over a two-mile course. The Carolina freshmen have a very strong team,
having defeated the Duke Imps last week.

The varsity runners, with a record of one win and one defeat, meet the Carolina cross-country team here this Friday
in a joint meet with the freshman teams. The meet will be run over a five-mile course. The Tarheels have
one of the strongest teams in the Southern Conference, having won over Duke by a close 23-24 score.

SPORTING GOODS

THE DAVIDSONIAN

CAT SCORER

Phi Gam Team Takes Title In Frat Football

Pictured above is Fred Dennis, shifty Davidson fullback, who chalked up the Wildcats’ lone tally Saturday afternoon.

GRAPPLERS TO HAVE TOURNEY

Neophyte Matmen to Wrestle Soon in Intra-Mural Tournament

By Parks Harrison

When dusk falls on the evening of November 31st, the first matches of the current intramural wrestling tournament will be
just a few hours away. The last day of November and the first two in the next month will suffice
to eliminate all but the eight victorious neophytes. At the present time, some 60-odd boys are delving into the mysteries
of nelsons, scissors, and the many intricate yet simple positions the followers of the grunt and groan artists enjoy so
enthusiastically.

In affixing a name to the candidates for wrestling honors, Neophyte was used purposely. It is not the privilege of
bestowing medals that motivates the introduction of this form of intramural activity. Boxing was dropped not because it is not
a fine sport and one worth the time it takes, but because we at Davidson do not include it in
our intercollegiate athletic competition; while wrestling has enjoyed some quite successful years under the tutelage of past coaches. The athletic
staff felt the substitution would be a profitable one.

Now the point in making this explanation appears. Those directly concerned with the outcome of the wrestling season do not
encourage individuals to compete who have no motive other than the securing of some material award. Each winner in the
intramural competition should make use of his experience gained in the months of practice by becoming a member of either
the varsity or the freshman squads. Frankly, we ask you, if you have only your own good and gain at
heart, please don't spoil the ambition and purpose of some boy by excluding him from the competitive ranks because you
are by nature more fortunate.

In view of this statement, the following requirements have been adopted:
1. No person who has been a member of either the varsity or freshman squads will be eligible for competition,
whether he remained the entire season or whether he dropped out during its duration.
2. Three weeks of regular practice will be compulsory.
3. Regular intercollegiate weight classes will be observed, with two pounds excess allowed the first day and three pounds the
second and third days.
4. The coach’s award will be made on the following basis:

(Continued on Page 6)

PAUL & CRYMES, INC.

Those directly concerned with the outcome of the wrestling season do not encourage individuals to compete who have no motive
other than the securing of some material award. Each winner in the intramural competition should make use of his experience
gained in the months of practice by becoming a member of either the varsity or the freshman squads. Frankly, we
ask you, if you have only your own good and gain at heart, please don't spoil the ambition and purpose
of some boy by excluding him from the competitive ranks because you are by nature more fortunate.

In view of this statement, the following requirements have been adopted:
1. No person who has been a member of either the varsity or freshman squads will be eligible for competition,
whether he remained the entire season or whether he dropped out during its duration.
2. Three weeks of regular practice will be compulsory.
3. Regular intercollegiate weight classes will be observed, with two pounds excess allowed the first day and three pounds the
second and third days.
4. The coach’s award will be made on the following basis:

(Continued on Page 6)

PAUL & CRYMES, INC.

After Three-Day Semi-Final Struggle Phi Gams Win Out Over SPE’s

PHI DELTS LOSE FINALS

Volley Ball Starts; Seniors and Juniors Victors

A strong Phi Gam team won the inter-fraternity touch football championship Thursday afternoon by virtue of a 6-0 victory over
the Phi Delts. The Phi Gams and SPE's had a terrific struggle to decide the finalist in their bracket, and
the former won out only after three games between the teams were played.played, the first two being scoreless ties. On
Monday the SPE's outplayed their opponents, but failed to push over a touchdown. The reverse was true on the next
afternoon but the Phi Gams were unable to reach the Promised Land by a scant two inches. With both teams
putting up a great fight Wednesday, Phi Gamma Delta emerged a 6-0 victor. In the finals, the Phi Gams took
a one-touchdown lead in the first quarter, which the Phi Delts were unable to overcome. The winner's offense was built
around a crack passing combination from Bill Niesewetter to his roommate, Lawrence Reid, and it was Reid who made a
magnificent catch in the end zone for the touchdown after the Phi Delts had held for four downs on their
five-yard line. Captain Bill Boyd starred for the losers. The intramural football season has been very successful and Mokey Faison,
who was in charge of all the games, says that they were the fastest he has ever seen. Inter-class volleyball
got under way this week with the Juniors licking the Sophs and the Centennials swamping the unorganized Freshmen. The score
of the first contest was 21-2, 21-17, while the Seniors won 21-3, 21-3. The volleyball captains are: Seniors — Carl
Carlson; Juniors — Bull Durham; Sophs — Jim Pratt; Freshmen — Rufus Allison.

MORE PLAYERS ENTER BASKETBALL SESSIONS
Fundamentals Are Stressed; Prospects Bright

Davidson's varsity cagers drilled into their second week of practice Monday with an increasing number of hopefuls turning out to
swell the ranks from which Coach Flake Laird will choose his material. The full strength will not be felt until
after football season ends. Fundamentals and a few basic plays are being used now to accustom the men to an
“eye for the basket” and “the feel of the ball.” Due to a scarcity of height, the Wildcats will probably
employ a fast-break system which will in turn require good stamina. The nightly routine consists of working on dribbling, footwork,
passes, pivots, short shots, and calisthenics. Captain Bill Quick, senior guard, Maurice Peabody, veteran forward, and other lettermen are aiding
Coach Laird with the pre-season workouts. The enthusiasm and spirit are gratifying in consideration of the early start, and it
is expected that when the curtain opens on Southern Conference basketball, Davidson will be better prepared than it has been
in recent years. It is already known that the 1937 Wildcats will tangle with the best conference foes as well
as their “Big Five” opponents and a complete schedule will appear soon.

SODA FOUNTAIN SPORTS A FIELD
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 11, 1936

D’CATS FACE CENTRE COLONELS IN CHARLOTTE TILT
BONE CRUSHER VICTORS PROVE TOO MUCH

HUTCHINS BACK
Shown here is Jarring Jim Hutchins, Carolina’s 200-pound line bucker, who pushed over two touchdowns for the Tar Heels here
Saturday.

KITTENS LOSE TO FROSH
South Carolinians Too Heavy For Crippled Kittens; Little of S. C. Stars

Last Friday night on the varsity practice field of the University of South Carolina, in Columbia, the strong South Carolina
freshman team crushed the Davidson Wildkittens, 48 to 0, before a crowd of approximately 900 spectators. This huge score does
not indicate the fighting spirit of our freshman team; it is said that they played as good a game as
they have played all year, but, being outweighed in both line and backfield and lacking three or four of the
regular team in their lineup, they could not dodge defeat.

Line Strong
Worthy of note is the strength that the Davidson line possessed. They consistently withstood center rushes and line plays, and
the S. C. team had to resort to end runs. Due to this fact, most of their touchdowns were scored
on long wide runs. Little, of S. C., was undoubtedly the shining star of the game. He is as fleet
a back as has been seen in action in the freshman games in this section of the country. To his
credit went four of the touchdowns, one being a spectacular run of 65 yards.

Passing Even
The passing game of both teams was about even, the Davidson pass defense showing up remarkably well. In this phase
of the game, Little was again the star for his team, getting off some beautiful long ones. However, the combination
for Davidson of Hunter to Winters worked smoothly until Winters was forced out of the game because of injury. Both
of these Wildkitten backs played well, Hunter's kicking again showing up nicely in addition to Watkins.

(Continued on Page 6)

that the 1937 Wildcats will tangle with the best conference foes as well as their “Big Five” opponents and a
complete schedule will appear soon.

STATIONERY CANDIES

HEAVY FOR BATTLING DAVIDSON PLAYERS.
Armfield and Lafferty Star in Davidson Lineup, Bershak, Burnett, Hutchins, and Little Lead Tar Heel Victory March

INJURIES FROM OTHER GAMES SLOW WILDCATS
Carolina’s Superior Team Was Able to Score in Each Period; Davidson’s Only Tally Came in Last Quarter

North Carolina’s football powerhouse, which has been improving steadily each week, played its best football of the season Saturday to
down a fighting Wildcat eleven by 26-6. Capitalizing on their 14-pound per man weight advantage and exceptionally strong reserves, they
pushed over a touchdown in each of the four periods. The field aided by a 15-yard run by Armfield, which
placed the ball in enemy territory. Andy Bershak recovered a fumbled lateral to give Carolina the ball on their own
34. Here the Tar Heels began a march which was terminated only when Hutchins smashed into the line for one
yard to score. Lafferty came back into the game to fire long passes just before the half. Davidson went into
Carolina territory but never threatened seriously.

Jarring Jim Bucks
The Tar Heels proved the fact that a good big man is better than a good little man, no matter
how much fight is put up by the latter. Jarring Jim Hutchins put on one of the best displays of
bone-crushing line bucks that has been seen on Richardson Field in many years. Tom Burnett and Andy Bershak were other
luminaries on the invaders. Carolina capitalized on a fumble to score again early in the third quarter. Then the Wildcats
began to threaten seriously. Davidson played in Carolina territory and threatened again but never could reach the goal line. In
the fourth period, a forward-lateral perfectly executed, Lafferty to Williams to Dennis, was good for 14 yards and a touchdown.
Carolina scored again when Ditt intercepted a pass which Lafferty juggled and ran to the four-yard line. Bershak scored on
the next play.

Davidson Threatens
Davidson played much better ball than the score indicates. Time and again the Wildcats marched into scoring territory but lacked
the punch necessary at the crucial moment. In the matter of statistics, Carolina registered 12 first downs as against 8
for the Wildcats. Burnett slightly out-distanced Armfield with his punts. But this was more than atoned for by the beautiful
punt returns of the Davidson backs. Led by Lafferty, they returned kicks 199 yards in comparison to 69 for Carolina.
The whole Davidson team played good football, but they were hampered by injuries, weather conditions, and the breaks. Nothing but
praise is due the Red and Black warriors who displayed so much fight.

Wildcats Not Hurt
Davidson received a terrific moral setback on the first play of the game when Teeny Lafferty was injured and had
to be carried from the field. Charlie Sears took his place in the running position. Lafferty and Armfield shone in
the backfield, while Corbin and Dennis did a good job of keeping Carolina’s two stellar ends out of the plays.
In the line, Purdy, Dick Johnson, and Joe Hunter were outstanding. Hunter especially was down under each punt, throwing Little
many times as soon as the ball touched his hands. The team played as a unit without any individual star.
If there was any outstanding feature, it was the wonderful spirit of the Wildcats who played just as hard when
three touchdowns were behind as at the beginning of the game.

Burnett’s Record Broken
After an exchange of punts, in which Burnett had considerably the edge, Carolina took the ball on Davidson's 47-yard line
and aided by a forward lateral pass marched for a touchdown. Hutchins raced through the line for the last sixteen
yards to the goal line. Burnett's record of 12 consecutive extra points was marred by Purdy who charged through the
line to block the kick. Carolina's touchdown thrust seemed to cause the Wildcats to play even scrappier, more “heads up”
ball. Led by Charlie Sears, they began a march up the field after the kick-off. The fighting Wildcat linesmen pushed
the heavy Carolina forwards before them as they moved on, aided by a freak punt, to the Carolina 4-yard line,
but here the ball went over on downs.

Armfield Runs
Davidson again started down the field aided by a 15-yard run by Armfield, which placed the ball in enemy territory.
Andy Bershak recovered a fumbled lateral to give Carolina the ball on their own 34. Here the Tar Heels began
a march which was terminated only when Hutchins smashed into the line for one yard to score. Lafferty came back
into the game to fire long passes just before the half. Davidson went into Carolina territory but never threatened seriously.

THIS WEEK WE SALUTE PI KAPPA ALPHA
Founded at the University of Virginia, March 1, 1868, 79 Active Chapters
COLORS: Garnet and Gold
FLOWER: Lily of the Valley

N. C. Beta Chapter Officers
JOHN ABERNETHY, Pres.
TEENY LAFFERTY, V-P.
JACK LAFFERTY, Sec.
BOB ANDERS, Treas.

White Drug Store
Davidson, N. C.
PRESCRIPTIONS FILLED BY EFFICIENT AND EXPERIENCED PHARMACISTS

MARION DAVIS CO.
205 South Tryon St.
CHARLOTTE’S LEADING MEN’S STORE
