Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 7, 1936

The Davidsonian
Founded By the Class of 1915
1936 Member 1937
Associated Collegiate Press
Distributors of Collegiate Digest

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879

JIM MORTON Editor
R. H. ROBINSON Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
Managing Ed
Sports Editor
Editor Dade

BUSINESS STAFF
W 1 Circulation
Ralph Char Circulation
Charles M Collection
M. Hal Advertising
J. Hit Asst. Business

“There is so much good in the worst of us and so much bad in the best of us, it hardly becomes any of us to talk about the rest of us.”

BOOK EXCHANGE
The Book Exchange, operated by members of the Y. M.C. A., is being used more and more each year as a means of buying second-hand books and disposing of the old ones. This is a big improvement over the old method of running all over the campus until you have found someone to buy your last year’s text.

Revolutionary
Do college students of today have to take so many courses of unneeded subjects like so much castor oil? This potent question echoed throughout the country, following an address by Charles Eugene McIntosh, before the Conference on Vocational Guidance at North Carolina State College. Speaking with the authority of one who has been a country schoolmaster, school superintendent, worker in the State Department of Public Instruction, Assistant Dean of the School of Education at the University of North Carolina, and educational director of three government agencies, Mr. McIntosh illustrated his point of the table d’hote style of feeding courses to students in that he endured two years of unnecessary foreign language when he desired to concentrate on his major. The question arises in his mind when a girl in high school refused to attend school because two years of language was required to graduate and she did not expect to use this subject in after life.

BLUE MONDAY
Dr. Robert Maynard Hutchins, young and aggressive President of the University of Chicago, chucked tradition overboard, when the requirement was established that no formal grades or exams were to be given. A comprehensive examination, taken when the student felt capable of going into a higher group of work, sufficed as grades.

Anthropological measurements of University of Kansas freshmen compared with those of a selected list of other schools recently revealed that these men were taller, about the same in weight, and less in girth of chest.

The American College Publicity Association at the annual convention in Boston elected Frank S. Wright, University of Florida, as its President.

JOURNALISM
It is a pity that Davidson College cannot afford even one course in journalism. With the caliber of our English faculty and the fact that many have had considerable training in newspaper work, it is certain that a professor could be found in the English department who would be a capable instructor in this field. Why not drop one of the many English courses and substitute in its place a course in journalism?

Campus Comments
ALUMNI JOURNAL
Congratulations are in order to Fred Smith, alumni secretary, and assistants in editing a very successful issue of “The Alumni Journal.” It showed much originality in the variety of articles.

CHURCH
Is the grass greener on the other side of the fence, as the ancient adage states? And so it seems in regard to Seniors sitting in assigned seats at our Vesper Services. The college administration did not think the regulations of the past year were sufficient in permitting a Senior the privilege of attending Morning Worship or Evening Vespers, and signing a card to the effect that he had been present at one of these services. This plan was given the hearty approval of the Senior class of last year. Although many people of today halt at returning to old rules and regulations, the Faculty and members of the Senior Class think that a return in this instance would be beneficial.

WILDCATS
The score of 19-6 didn’t justly tell exactly what Navy suffered at the hands of the Wildcats. Navy started its second team, quickly shifted in the entire first squad which was followed by innumerable substitutions. It wasn’t until the final period that lucky Navy reserves could gain much headway over the hard-fighting Davidson team, which had only a few substitutions during the entire contest.

TAPS
We are all familiar with the tune of Taps, the bugle call, but few know the beautiful words that compose it. They are as follows:
Day is done,
Gone the sun,
From the lake, the hills, the sky;
All is well,
Safely rest.
God is nigh.

BOOKS BREAK US
The depression is over! At least from the high cost of textbooks, one would deduce that another boom is here. Why does Mr. Average Student with an average pocketbook pay from fifteen to twenty-five dollars for a normal supply of books, many of which are good for one semester? The rapid changes in educational methods compel most instructors to revise their courses and change textbooks every one or two years. Hence it does seem rather unreasonable to pay three and a half to five dollars for a book that will be in use possibly one more year and may have absolutely no resale value.

A NEW SLANT ON FRESHMEN
The last few years have undoubtedly witnessed an even more pronounced change in the attitude of general upperclassmen toward freshmen. It would indeed seem that the days of unmerciful floggings, inhumane treatment, and the unbelievable hardships of initiations are rapidly dying out at Davidson. Of course, it is true, and probably always will be, that the upperclassmen will have some fun at the expense of a few freshmen, and I would be the last to advocate the complete abolition of such pranks. “Boys will be boys,” and no one can change that! But what are some of these so-called changes in regard to freshmen? For example, even this year, a group of upperclassmen mostly from the Y. M. C. A. Cabinet, but partly from the Student Body at large, was on hand a week early to meet all buses and trains, to help freshmen with their luggage and to help them find their rooms and to register. In addition to this, a system of counseling was set up by Dr. Gwynn in connection with the orientation program, which system is to be continued during the year. For every fifteen freshmen, there is a student counselor and a faculty advisor to whom they can go to seek advice on various dilemmas. Then I believe it is an accurate observation that the fraternities are devoting more time and attention to helping and encouraging freshmen to get off on the right foot in their lessons and also in extracurricular activities.

Further, I believe it is a legitimate generalization to say that the upper classes as a whole are looking more on the freshmen as human beings who are starting out on a new venture, as the ones who are the potential leaders here at Davidson, as leaders in real life after their college career, and as individuals who may need some guidance, help, or encouragement from them. These few illustrations seem to be indicative of a growing spirit of altruism on the part of the upper classes toward those whom they realize will in a few years have to carry on in their place. Indeed, looked at from this point of view, it would seem that the upper classes are but using common sense!

WADE H. BOGGS, Jr., Pres. Senior Class.

P. S.—I request Ed Armfield, President of the Pan-Hellenic Council, to write Campus Comments for the next issue of The Davidsonian.

Little pitchers, lend me your ears. The eyes and ears of the campus are on the keyhole with the inquisitive eye looking through. When you see it, step on it, it may be a stooge. Our motto is, “All the news that shouldn’t be printed.” The inimitable Sugg set a mark hard to equal but we have a money-back guarantee if you're bored, then try and get it. This column is not written by Snozz Hill.

Reverberations from the Navy game: That razzle-dazzle reverse and forward-lateral had the Navy tackling all over the field looking for the ball. Davidson's “Iron Men.” Navy thinks Andy Kerr should take his hat off to Coach Newton. Washington papers complimentary. Alumnus Cyclone Mack McLendon at the game in his uniform. Gunston Hall sent Webster to hops (dances to you), for which the Phi Delts are grateful. Plebes can't go! Marjorie and Virginia Shaver at the Lotus with Jack Branch. Judge Cathey ogling the floor show. Wally Tonissen and Bill Crooks showing traffic cops how the Davidson stop light does it. The G-Men are looking for Tom Abbot, Pete Choate, and Crusher Page with Jo Hutchinson. Persian-Puss Ellis and Gimme Moore on the bald-head row of the Burlesque. Did you hear the one about the sick toe dancer? She had the ballet ache. Goof Cooke and Dot Clendenin at the Shoreham, my deahs. Bobby Florence and his blonde French Babee. “Fighting Bob” Peters. Jim Wilson, the souvenir collector. Was it the Hanger or the Hangover Club? All the boys were there. Bill MacIlwinen at the piano while the boys sang “Oh Davidson,” with the dance floor, all three feet of it, cleared. Stewed Barnes and Teau Breeden directing with a Pfohl-like technique. “We're from North Carolina, we're all right.” Sign in front of theater in Danville: “No Parking, Not Even Buicks.” Reunion on the seventh floor of the Ambassador Hotel.Lutz ought to watch those swinging doors. David Sprunt would not make a good bell-hop. Know that bars in Washington close at midnight? The team got a well-deserved trip—sightseeing, dance, and everything. Same Sunday and “all roads lead to Home.” Gene Vogler made a noble effort. 

Nomination for oblivion: The drunk who kept standing up and yelling for Navy. Did you see any really pretty girls in Washington? Those guys should come to a Davidson dance. Nomination for the best man on the field Saturday: The whole Davidson team. Wonder how the Pan-Hellenic members will spend their ill-gotten gains next summer? Joe Burke has a good band and you'll hear some swell Hal Kemp arrangements Saturday night. Let's make it a good one.

Domo Patterson is so in love he is practically flunking out of school—he makes 98 now. Henry Lyon's coffee must have gotten cold while he waited two hours on the wrong corner. Martin Barnett is now playing the blues on a second fiddle because the president of our student body is first in the heart of his country-woman. Deacon Bob Johnson is looking for a green pasture in Kentucky. Pinky-Puss Mills, Greenville’s own, is stealing light bulbs. Did Frank Poe send Carolyn Hinkle a wedding present? Fitz Dade is squiring the lovely Miss Moffett. May there be no spiders. Annapolis always gives me a feeling of nostalgia. Severn, oh lovely name, there’s something about the Service that’s deeper than the uniform. End of a perfect weekend. All you guys take girls to the game and that good dance and save a late date for me.

STOLEN THUNDER
By DAYMOND TURNER

Frankness... The Ring-Tum-Phi contributes the following from W. and L.: “One freshman who was having a particularly bewildering time of it turned to one of the Beta boys and glibly asked, ‘Say, this Beta Theta Pi is really a national college fraternity?’ Stunned for a moment, the rusher quickly regained his composure and in an icy voice sarcastically snapped, ‘No, sonny, we are just a local high school fraternity trying hard to break into collegiate circles’.”

All-American... “I draw the line at kissing,” she said in accents fine; but he was a football hero, so he crossed the line! —The Rammer Jammer.

Evolution...
Alpha: “I wanna go out tonight, mamma.”
Beta: “Please-may I go out tonight; I'll be back by ten.”
Gamma: “I’m going out tonight, Dad.”
Delta: “Good night, folks, I'll bring in the milk.”

Progress... Well, Carolina has finally reopened Swain Hall. One would think that this ought to mollify the militant Daily Tar Heel. But carrying on the Phil Hammer tradition, that publication has now abolished compulsory Monday chapel and raises the “issue” of co-education. Some people are never satisfied. That comes under our definition of progress. Wake Forest students withdrew their campus petition for dancing when discussion threatened to involve the four faculty members who championed their cause in hot water. An acceptance of the request would have limited the Baptist students to three dances a year on campus as compared with the fifteen they now enjoy in Raleigh. At least that is how we understood it.

TO THE EDITOR OF THE DAVIDSONIAN
Dear “Tiger” Jim:

Having bought my usual concert series ticket, despite the uplift in price per, and not having past availability of Davidsonian space, I wish herewith to renew my yearly protest against having auditorium lights on during concerts. Denying first any claims to being an artist of great sensibilities, I did hope that the Sinfonietta (nee, Little Symphony) would, as one might say, bathe my soul with music. Instead, I was scrubbed with blarish yellow incandescence. Certainly, music can better be enjoyed in the absence of irrelevant surroundings. Of course, programs must be read, but people have been known to read them before the concert (us common people who come on time) and during intermission. And for those who must rattle and read again, I suggest a small flashlight. I believe that with these aids the interests of the concert will best be served by a darkened auditorium. I don’t foresee any official rush to turn off the lights. If blatant editorials and mordant columnistic barbs availed nothing, what can come out of the Open Forum? But I just wanted to let you know I was still fighting.

Yours, cordially and sympathetically,
HAROLD SUGG.

This Collegiate World
Would you believe it? Here we had thought that the literary lights had blown out of sports. Bill Shakespeare graduated from Notre Dame, and Henry Wadsworth Longfellow left Northwestern. But no. Now “The Last of the Mohicans,” James Fenimore Cooper has popped up at Marquette U.

Some of the students at the University of Kentucky go to great lengths for an education. Imagine covering 11,800 miles just to go to school. From China? India? No, they only live about 30 odd miles from the campus, but they commute daily. One of the fellows figures that he burns approximately 785 gallons of gas during the school year, which amounts to—let’s see, maybe you'd better figure it out for yourself.

Maiden-Munchausens are in a class by themselves. And here we had thought all along that men were the greatest fabricators of fables and fancies. However—and this is the rub—the committee of judges at a liar’s contest staged at the University of California, conceding that women are superior in this sinful art, refused to let the questionably fairer sex have the opportunity of competing against the men. Now they have their own place in the “lie-ing-sun.”

Maiden Fair...
He told her that he loved her.
The color left her cheeks.
But on the lapel of his coat
It stayed for weeks and weeks.

Sapient Sayings...
“Is that the English Department of the college over there?”
“Yes, that’s our chamber of commas!”

Punishment...
I kissed her tempting ruby lips—
An act quite diabolic.
For since I stole those honeyed sips
I have the painter's colic.

Comme il faut...
He: Please.
She: No.
He: Pretty please.
She: Positively no. I said no.
He: Aw, please, ma, all the other kids are going barefooted.

The Unco Guid...
To FLIRT is very wrong.
Wild youths chase women, wine and song;
I don't.
I kiss no girls, not even one;
I don’t even know how it is done;
You wouldn't think I have much fun;
I DON’T!

Disillusion...
Every year college deans pop the routine question to their undergraduates: “Why did you come to college?” Traditionally the answers match the question in triteness. But last year a University of Arizona co-ed unexpectedly confided: “I came to be went with—but I ain’t, yet.”

Last week Kernel wanted to do something new, something different that would set him apart from the rest of you guys. So he decided to read The Davidsonian. One article contained a list of the members of the Fraternity Council, and another the presidents of the fraternities these represent. But what caught Kernel’s eye was a glaring omission: one of the most distinguished groups on the campus was left out of both lists. Arise, you men of Tota Phi, and demand recognition! Kernel was informed that a Councilman has been appointed from this group, but his seat is as uncertain as the Ethiopian delegates’ in the League of Nations. In fact, a number of comparisons could be drawn there.

In the upset of the weekend, if not of the season, Navy nosed out a victory over the Wildcats last Saturday. Kernel saw some of the game on the grid-graph, and thought for a while we had ’em. But then luck stepped in, and we didn’t get the Navy’s goat after all. Pop Warner, incidentally, predicted early in the week that Navy would win by 30 points. If Kernel had a three-cent stamp he'd send that clipping to Pop, if he had the clipping. With a nasty, sneering letter. That'd burn him up!

Kernel is disappointed at the evidences of softening seen on every hand these days. What, he wonders, is this younger generation coming to? The occasion for all this brow-clutching is the fact that no longer is the freshman class giving of its all to provide the bleacher customers with a place to put it on Richardson Field. Kernel is all for NYA work, of course, but not to the point of sacrificing a hallowed tradition. First thing you know, some girl is going to come onto the campus without a single cry of “Fire!” That would be a fine mess!

Time marches on, and The Davidsonian office installs a telephone. Kernel is not measurably benefited, however, because he can’t remember his girl's phone number. He knows she’s in Texas, but that's not enough. Seriously, though, this is a step forward. Before long this’ll be a newspaper.

This weekend will see the first Davidson dance of the year. And here’s a good thing to remember when you are trying to decide which one to have up: A Miss is as good as her smile. And no better.

The class of ’36 (you remember; they used to go to school here) gave the college as their class gift a clock, to be stuck into the side of Chambers Building facing the dormitories. Kernel has heard that time and something else that slips by no man, but it seems that it’s been about four months now. Thank goodness for watches.

It was getting to four o'clock and the corporal didn’t know how to get his men back to their place in line. Captains and lieutenants were yelling advice, but the louder the advice the greater his confusion. Finally he came through with this improvement on the book of regulations: “Squad, over there with the rest of the company, March!” Funny thing about it is, it worked.

Overheard: “When a man first comes to Davidson as a freshman, he thinks a senior is the greatest thing in the world. Four years later he thinks the same thing.” Kernel is inclined to question the first part (only) of that statement. Freshmen are green, but not that green.

Salaries of Bucknell University’s faculty and administrative staff have been increased 5 percent.