Page Four THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 25, 1936

TWELVE WILDCATS CLOSE GRID CAREERS TOMORROW

SPORTS AFIELD

CAPACITY CROWD EXPECTED AT THANKSGIVING TILT

WILDCATS CLASH WITH DEACONS TOMORROW

Gray Hunter and John Rackley Run Wild as Kittens Trample Blue Ridge

SECOND WIN OF YEAR

Kittens Roll Up 191 Yards From Scrimmage

After being and threw passes all over the field, but only Da I ld say | Rae| 1 fee the
season's rec vever, past perf le or? in this ga sea hind the thing in game. It opening asked and
none is For some of us this will be the grand finale. Newton - McEver lost to Wake Forest, and
this year’s team has no intention of breaking that record. It was br ntion that at th membe teams have
never rs of lrcerwautd class would is all right in its to me that if any football At- dents are
to be guest games they sho tract them at le place and good ba never win a cor ship. In
the c present rate fullback is I dred cornet play It are athlet ind I sincerely bel s is the
i ment of the mz he le body. I know this is the last game, but let’s look ahead to
next year and years to come. Back your coaches by trying to interest some high or prep school athletes in
your school. Ve've seen this yes ; sed attendance th rT t ee good football. Gx right at the g
ior imy ance So win fo) back Georgia got back | and went North to tie iham team n They
haven't forgot the 1 War. yet down in Athens, and when the Bulldogs goes North .it just nat- urally “gets
hot” against the Ya Yale can to this. One year they made the mistake of playing “Marching Through Georgia.” You
testify remember reading the result. They are the 5 1 that beat Yale five times years, only t has ever
in as many With the Big Ten championship in its pocket Northwestern went to South to take Notre Dame. They
forgot to count in two things: 3end Notre Dame's underrated team, and her fighting spirit, in her own backyard. It
was a long ride back to Evanston — it’s cold on the-shores of Lake Michigan, and on the short end
of a 26 to 6 score it’s much worse.

Gallant Sacrifice

Maybe you've noticed this year the lack of publicity on the part of Snead Schmidt’ Navy's great back. Last year
he was the “fair-haired” boy of the Navy team. This year his name is only seen in the lineup; it’s
all Ingram this year. I heard from a reliable source that Schmidt is giving the glory and the ball to
Ingram while he (Schmidt) does the small assignment of just blocking for him. Schmidt is the kind who will block
for anybody. It's the same old story. See how much a star does without a good blocking back in front
of him! especially rward passes for had il nen displayed a se, bottling up 1 defer leather slingers and of
their ped period into Hunter Scores Hunter scored b

FACE DEACONS IN FINAL TEST----LEADERS

Wildkittens to the id fourth slue

ED ROGERS ~ GUARD

Approx- watched the Rackley Shines ley carried the pigskin farth- CLASSROOM QUOTES est ft Davidson, netting the Kit- ; Hunter,
pint-sized ugh the : H f yard- the visi-| * C H aptair 2 be ng jn the V played
a splendid de- 1 boy $ { ‘ Edne and Miller) 2° SI ickfield for Blue] Sar Ri the visitors’
| 0! CAT SOCCERS DEFEATED, 3-1

High Point Scores Two Goals In First Half; ’Cats Play Well

Davidson was downed by the High Point College soccer team in a hard-fought battle at the Point field Tuesday, November
17, to the tune of 3-1. High Point caught the Davidson napping in the first half and scored two points
before the end of the period, but the Davidson boys came on strong in the second half and played on
even terms with the Point team. Each team scored once in this period. Sam Cothran, Ken Scott, Howard McFadyen, Charles
Elder and Oscar Armstrong were outstanding for Davidson. Thanksgiving. in squeeze n is not at all discourag- you can out
of it.” ed the defeat as High Point is rated one of the strongest teams in the state. This was
High Point's final game of the season while it was the second for Davidson.

GRADES!

Students may get their grades by going to the office of the Registrar. The upperclassmen must get theirs from their
Faculty Advisor. These grades include all work done by the student from the beginning to the middle of the semester.
Grades will also be sent home about Wednesday.

THIS WEEK

Founded at the University of Miami, Oxford Ohio, August 8, 1839, Colors: Blue and Pink.

BETA THETA PI

Phi Alpha Chapter Officers

J. C. WINN, Pres. D. R. SELLARS, Vice-Pres. MARION D. WE SALUTE

JULIAN SQUIRES—Recorder

205 South Tryon St. CHARLOTTE’S LEADING MEN’S STORE

F. A. CATHEY, Treas. MOIR HALL, Sec.

AVIS CO.

Frank Purdy, Dick Johnson, erty. the gridiron for the last time—Le ter, Armfield, and Corbin. line of scrimmage. Pictured above
is the Wildcat team that will start the Turkey Day game against the Demon Deacons of Wake Forest, with the
possible exception of Dave Warden in Graham’s place. from left to right: Line—John Lee, Luke Graham, Jim Johnston, Joe Hunter,
and Bailey Williams. Backfield—Fred Dennis, Ed Armfield, Tom Corbin, and Teeny Lafferty. Seven of these men will be wearing the
Red and Black on They are e, Johnston, Purdy, Johnson, Hunter, Armfield, and Corbin. Below are the two opposing captains,
Dick Johnson of Davidson on the right and Wake Forest’s Ed Rogers at left. leading the best team that his
school has boasted in a decade. Both play guard and the fur will fly when they face each other across
the Each is Carolina Trackmen Take Conference

Place Your Vote In Observer Poll Now

Come on, all ye loyal Wildcats, vote now! Clip your ballot out of The Charlotte Observer and pick your All-North
Carolina team. Be sure to vote for some Davidson men. Davidson has one of theFinest teams in the history of
her existence and deserves to be well-represented in this selection. Besides the honor that goes to the winners, The Observer
is giving an All-State banquet for them and will award trophies to each. The banquet will be a gala affair
with a definite football atmosphere. Vote now!

TO START NEXT WEEK
Winners to Be Candidates For Varsity Team

Intramural wrestling, a new interclass sport at Davidson this year, will begin next Tuesday night, when the first matches are
held in the gym. They will continue for two more days. Wrestling took the place of boxing as an intramural
sport this year. About thirty men, who have never had wrestling experience before, are going out for the sport. They
are being coached by members of the varsity wrestling squad. Out of these thirty men, eight victorious wrestlers will emerge
from these matches. There will also be a coach’s award given to the coach who has been sincere in his
training and who has been at practice regularly. The winners in each class are expected to go out for the
wrestling team, which has made a good showing among collegiate teams during the past years.

Delicious Turkey Thanksgiving Dinner At DIXIE RESTAURANT & CIGAR STORE
Sizzling Steak Sandwiches—15c
Across from Selwyn Hotel

INTERCLASS MATCHES
Championship Wildcats Capture Sixth Position in Southern Conference Meet
MORSE BREAKS RECORD
Walker, Wildcat Threat, Forced to Withdraw

Smashing his former Southern Conference record of 26 minutes, made last year, by over a minute, Captain Bill Morse of
the Duke Blue Devils outran Bill Lumpkin of Richmond, who previously had beaten him in a match, to win first
place in record-breaking time of 25 minutes 34 seconds on the Southern Conference course at Chapel Hill. Lumpkin came in
a good distance ahead of other runners. The University of North Carolina Harriers recaptured the 13th annual Southern Conference cross
country championship they dropped to the Duke Harriers with 33 points, followed by Washington and Lee with 91 points, Richmond
with 104 points, North State with 125 points, Davidson with 135 points, and Furman. The Tar Heels placed five men
in the first nine finishers to offset the record-breaking performance of Morse of Duke. The runners who followed Morse and
Lumpkin were Davis of State, Hendrix, Gammon, Jones, Daniel, and Gardner of North Carolina in that order. The first Wildcat
to finish was Parcell, who finished 15th.

Showing a strong finishing spurt, Morse came in three hundred yards ahead of Lumpkin, who came in three hundred ahead
of Davis. Taking the lead after half of the course had been run, Morse gradually pulled away and had little
trouble from then on in winning. Lumpkin matched his stride for a short distance but fell behind the smooth and
easy-running Morse. Walker, Davidson's great track man, while running among the leaders had the misfortune of developing a “side stitch”
and had to withdraw.

(Continued on Page 6)

“Boo” CARS FOR RENT
M. P. Henderson
GULF GAS & OIL
415 South Tryon Street

FAUL & CRYMES, INC.
SPORTING GOODS
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

JOHNSON-GUARD — FRATERNITIES REACH FINALS
Phi Gams and Kappa Sigs Win Out

The Interfraternity volleyball tournament reached the finals Monday afternoon when the Kappa Sigs and Phi Gams inflicted defeats upon the
SPE’s and Pikas respectively, and thus won the right to meet each other in the finals to decide the winner.
The season started with a bang as the SPE's, Kappa Sigs, Pikas, and Phi Gams won out in the first
round of play. The semi-finals proved to be a hard fight between the SPE’s, Phi Gams, Pikas, and Kappa Sigs.
They played until almost dark when the Phi Gams narrowly nosed out the Pikas and the SPE’s, after a strong
comeback, fell before the Kappa Sigs. The scores for the semi-finals were: Phi Gams 21, 24; Pikas 18, 22, Kappa
Sigs 21, SPE’s 13, 14. The finals promise to be a real battle as both teams are set for each
other and will be out for a win.

Norton’s Barber Shop
21 YEARS EXPERIENCE WITH DAVIDSON MEN
Norton & Cidroam, Props.

DON’T GO TO CHARLOTTE — Try the — SOUTHERN 5 & 10c Store
Anything and Everything

GREAT BATTLE TO BE STAGED BY OLD RIVALS
Coach Weaver to Bring Best Wake Team in Decade to Face ’Cats
BOTH ELEVENS PRIMED

The long-anticipated day is almost here when the Demon Deacons of Wake Forest will venture into the lair of the
Davidson Wildcats to seek revenge for three consecutive defeats in their traditional football rivalry. It is expected that every seat
in Richardson field will be occupied when the two teams line up for the opening kickoff, as interest in the
coming gridiron classic is at the highest pitch in years. Coach Jim Weaver will bring the best Wake Forest team
in a decade to battle the Wildcats. The Wakes have plenty of speed, deception, and power, and outweigh the Davidson
eleven several pounds to the man. The Deacons are not fooling about this game — they intend to win. Wake
Forest boasts several excellent backfield stars, including Walt Kitchin and Hobo Daniel. Against this, Davidson will match one of the
best all-around aggregations seen in the Carolinas in years. Teeny Lafferty, Ed Armfield, Dick Johnson, and Joe Hunter have received
most of the praise because their playing was more spectacular or noticeable to the spectators, but the secret of the
greatness of this year’s eleven lies in the smooth coordination of eleven scrappy Wildcats, in action as well as in
name.

The layoff last week has enabled Captain Dick Johnson, Tom Corbin, and the other injured men to get in shape
again, ready to play their best game of the year Thanksgiving Day. Strenuous work on plays intended to surprise the
Deacons has been the feature of the practice sessions in which the team has been engaged.

(Continued on Page 6)

Medicated with throat-soothing ingredients of Vicks VapoRub.
Vicks COUGH Drop

For Thanksgiving
Your Thanksgiving dinner will be more complete with Double Kay Nuts. Toasted in creamery butter, piping hot and crisp, they
have a new, delightful flavor—so different from ordinary salted nuts merely cooked in oil.

Thanksgiving Specials
Royal DeLuxe Mixed Nuts 79c lb.
Giant Cashews 69c lb.
Fancy Ideal Mixed Nuts, 4 lb. 15c — 1 lb. 59c
Mogul Peanuts 29c lb.

Surprise Your Hostess With A Beauty Gift Box of Extra Fancy Nuts $1.00

COLLEGE PHARMACY
Davidson's “Service Drug Store”
