Page Six THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 1936

Mysterious ‘Nozy Broom’ Is Leading Public Enemy

Identity of Columnist Still Remains Secret; Stooges Numerous

ALL TRAPS HAVE FAILED

No Week-End Activities Seem To Be Exempt

A new public enemy No. 1 has arisen on the Davidson campus with the ascent of one “Nozy Broom” to the pedestal of mysterious pestiferousness. Times have now come to pass so that a poor innocent little Wildcat student cannot have a perfectly unblemished week-end without “Nozy Broom's” printing some foul innuendoes in his column. Manifold efforts have been made on the part of the victims of this merciless newshound to find out his identity and exterminate him in a peaceful manner. However, no one seems to know when he comes or when he goes. They only know that he has been and does not mind declaring his observations (in his column).

In a recent interview, the editor of this paper declared that he and Nozy were the only two living persons who actually knew his identity. As for the numerous so-called “scouts” of Nozy, they are merely stooges who work for the man behind the scenes, oblivious of everything but his “nom de plume.” May it be added that it is thought they receive a small remuneration for their snooping services.

A lot of the local fry are complaining because they receive letters from their best girls asking them to explain some remark made by the man with the large proboscis about said student and another gal. Amusing, also, are the wise guys who are positively certain that they know the real McCoy, having been told by friends of the friend of a fellow that knows who he is. Quoting one of the more famous leaders of the campus, “Things have come to such a state of affairs that a student’s every action is published in big bold print. Why, some day he might get a big scoop and resort to blackmail instead of putting it in his column.” Thus have the thoughts of the Davidson student been expressed in the mouthing of these words by our local B.M.O.C. Arise, fellow students, and put a stop to this nuisance so that a Davidson man may once more have a good time without fear of undue publicity!

FAST CAROLINA (Continued from Page 4)

finished as follows: Hendricks (C), first; Jones (C), second; Walker (D), third; Gardner (C), fourth; Aderholt (C), fifth; Daniel (C), sixth; Hall (C), seventh; Hunter (C), eighth; Garland (C), ninth; Parcell (D), tenth; Kuykendall (D), eleventh; Telford (D), twelfth; Brown (D), thirteenth; Feuchtenberger (D), fourteenth; Poe (D), fifteenth; and Torrey (D), sixteenth.

CAT-NIPS (Continued from Page 4)

provement, here’s a great step in the right direction. Not many men are falling in with the intra-mural program. If you think the type of volleyball played here is a sissy’s game, just try one game. It’s strenuous exercise, but not too strenuous. You who aren't active in any sport now—get out and enter these intra-mural sports. It’s all in good fun. You aren't expected to be an expert—or necessarily good. Just get a good spirit of wanting to be active! Follow this up through the remainder of the year.

Next week Dick Johnson, valiant captain and guard on this year’s wonder eleven, has consented to write a guest column. On the eve of the Wake Forest game, this should have a real punch—so be sure to look it up. Here’s this Stuff—Tiger!!

WILDCATS TOO POWERFUL (Continued from Page 4)

With every man doing his assignment, Lafferty swept out to his left, cut in off tackle, and galloped to the goal line untouched. In the fourth, the Davidson reserves put up a great passing attack led by Sears, Stair, and Nicholson. They finally went over for a touchdown when the alert Iverson snagged one as it caromed off the hands of two Centre backs.

Want A Job Alumnus? —Send In References

The October issue of the Alumni Journal announced the establishment of a placement bureau to be operated in conjunction with the Alumni Office, under the direction of Fred Smith, and since that time many interested concerns have been in correspondence with the office in an effort to secure recommendations. However, Mr. Smith has no such recommendations on hand and requests that the alumni who might be benefited by this new service should write to him and have their qualifications placed in the file. Mr. Smith states that in order that the bureau may be of any service it will be necessary for the alumni to lend their support to the work.

HE MADE A BAD BET

A Columbia, S. C., attorney and former county representative paid off a football bet by rolling a young lady stenographer two miles in a wheelbarrow.

Birmingham, England, will have its name painted in 60-foot letters on the top of the largest gas tank in the city to advertise itself to the air-minded.

WILDCAT BASKETEERS (Continued from Page 4)

Davidson will open the season here on December 16, when Captain Bill Quick will lead his basketeers against Catawba. According to reliable reports, the 'Cats are expecting to have the best team in recent years. In recent practice sessions, sophomores who have been looking good are: John Tice, Jack Lee, “Swede” Johnson, and Bill Boyd.

In Soviet Russia, 43 percent of the entire population at present was born after the revolution in 1917.

STUDENT VOLUNTEERS (Continued from Page 3)

to the conference at Charlotte include: Lenoir-Rhyne, Mitchell, Livingston, Catawba, Barbera-Scotia, Queens-Chicora, Johnson C. Smith, and Davidson.

The best intelligence test is the kind of thing you will buy if you can get it on the installment plan.

HIGH POINT DEFEATS (Continued from Page 4)

remaining to play brought victory for the Pointers. Charlie Bixler and Gene Vogler made several rousing attacks on the visitors' goal, but the splendid work of the High Point goalie held them at bay. Howard McFadyen, “Bones” Woodward, and Ken Scott played fine defensive games. McFadyen used his head to advantage and made several kicks that carried half the distance of the field. High Point has no football team, consequently soccer is a major sport with them, and they always turn out good teams. The two teams battle this week in a return game at High Point. Other games have been arranged, two with Duke, two with Furman, one with Clemson, and a possible match with Ft. Bragg. The team expects to play an eight-game schedule.

DR. FRAZER HOOD TO (Continued from Page 3)

sonality in College Students.” From the meeting at Richmond, Dr. Hood will go to Raleigh for a meeting of the North Carolina Literary and Historical Society, of which he is vice-president, on December third and fourth. At these meetings, there is always a prominent national figure to deliver the principal address. This year the speaker will be Thomas Wolfe, a North Carolina man who has made himselffamous as a novelist: Two of his most prominent books are “Look Homeward, Angel,” and “Of Time and the River.” Also, at these meetings, there is an annual award made to the North Carolinian who has written the most significant book of the year. Dr. E. F. Shewmake, of the English Department of Davidson College, is a member of the Committee of Awards.

Ideas hate to be lonely. Observe how hard it is to get one into an arts college, the new librarian, LIBRARY MAKES IMPROVEMENTS Basement Being Put in Shape So That It May Be Used For Reading ALL SHELVES CLEANED Shelves and Pictures of Presidents Labeled Believing that the Library should be the heart of a liberal Mr. Chalmers G. Davidson, is bending every effort to improving the library and making it more accessible, useful, and pleasant for students. Employing sixteen students under N.Y.A. regularly, Mr. Davidson has inaugurated a large number of improvements. The basement has been the scene of considerable activity as it is being put in shape to be used, and as students have been engaged binding pamphlets, repairing broken bindings, and preserving old copies of annuals and other books with shellac. A large number of old pamphlets and papers is also to be sorted out and disposed of properly. Other students have been dusting and cleaning the shelves. The government documents have all been placed in one room and in some semblance of order. The bound copies of the New York Times have also been arranged together on shelves in the basement hallway, by date, consecutively. Labels have been made for shelves in various rooms, and small signs have been placed over the doors of the various rooms in the building. The pictures of college presidents and other persons connected with the college in the past have also been labeled.

Campus Camera

KAPPA ALPHA THETA CHAPTER THE 18TH CENTURY FOR THE COMMITMENT OF DEBTORS, CRIMINALS AND OFFENDERS OLD DEBTOR'S PRISON

Davidson College can now boast that it stands on par with any other college in the country as far as the mascot situation is concerned. Not only does the college possess a real live wildcat, but a fake one as well. The fake wildcat, who has caused much comment since his appearance in the Carolina game, wears a striped suit similar to Felix’s coat of fur and dances in and around the band while it is marching on the field. A noteworthy acrobat is this facsimile, turning flips, somersaults, and doing other tricks. At the games of Duke University, it has become a custom for the traditional Blue Devil to take to the field to exhibit the spirit of the Duke lads. Thus, it is hoped that the wildcat costume will frequently be seen exhibiting the Wildcat spirit with its lively activities. The real wildcat, Felix, made his debut at the Carolina game also, sitting on the sidelines complacently watching from his caged lair. This was the first time that he has been seen out of his cage by any of the local student body, having been cooped up for some years almost to become a victim of moths.

Student Body’s Health Is Now Reported Excellent

REV. JOHN A. REDHEAD (Continued from Page 1) the League of Nations on international relations, and of Moscow and Wall Street on finance. “We are at sea, and the Compass of Custom no longer shows the way,” he said. What, then, can guide the individual? A high opinion of oneself can do it, according to the speaker. Let a man appreciate the sacred things that are within him. “Now are we the sons of God,” he quoted from I. John. Such an attitude of appreciation, he said, recognizes good and evil in their true light instinctively. A man with that attitude obeys something inside him, and so takes his standard with him. Another value of that high opinion of one’s worth is that it will help him to do right. “Noblesse oblige,” he said, “Noble birth demands noble deeds.” Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego had power from such an opinion of themselves. And the early missionaries gained their strength from an appreciation of their worth: These men kept faith with something within them. The story, he said, is told that the captain of the Titanic, when asking for courage and bravery in the face of doom from his officers, used this phrase: “Be British! Be British!” in order to remind them of their heritage. Mr. Redhead reminded his audience of its heritage with these words: “Be sons of God.” “And every man that hath this hope within him purifieth himself, even as God is pure,” concluded the minister, quoting his text from I. John.

Mrs. Robson States That in Fall Principal Worry Is Physical Exams

FEW SERIOUS CASES Nurse Ascribes Lack of Sickness to Automobile Business is bad; at least it is that way down at the Davidson infirmary. According to Mrs. A. B. Robson, veteran nurse, there have been only about forty inmates at the college hospital this year. “From the first of school until Thanksgiving,” she said, “the physical exams, not sickness, are our principal worry. However, just before Christmas we always have quite a number of boys here with colds and such started from being cooped up in hot rooms.” During the month of September about twelve boys were sick. In October the number ran to twenty-two, and so far this month it has mounted to only six. The average stay of patients at the infirmary this term has been about two and a half days. “We have had two appendicitis cases, though,” she said. “Of course any cases which are at all serious we send on to the city hospital; we simply doctor the boys when they are down for a day or so.” Mrs. Robson attributes the lack of sickness in recent years to the automobile. “Before the auto, a great many of the students came to Davidson from small towns and farms, where they had stayed healthy practically all their lives. Now, though, the automobile takes them to picture shows and public places, bringing them in contact with diseases. Therefore by the time the boys come to college they have had already most of the common ailments.”

You know that a cigarette can be mild; that is, when you smoke it, it’s not harsh or irritating. You know that a cigarette can have a pleasing taste and aroma. When you smoke a cigarette and find that it has the right combination of mildness, good taste, and aroma, it just seems to satisfy you... gives you what you want. I smoke Chesterfield all the time, and they give me no end of pleasure.