Page Two The Davidsonian — Founded By the Class of 1915

1936 Member 1937
Associated Collegiate Press
Distributors of Collegiate Digest

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES — Ten cents per copy, $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON AVE. NEW YORK, N.Y.
CHICAGO . BOSTON . LOS ANGELES . SAN FRANCISCO
PORTLAND . SEATTLE

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879

R. H. ROBINSON - Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
Managing Editor Owen Cooke
Managing Editor Sam Cothran
Euclid Fane
Hector M. Geachy
Vowles Yates
Faison Harry Kuykendall
Hewell Overton
World Suce Sports Editor
Associate Editor
Social Editor
Associate Editor
Department Turner
Associate Editor
Winn Associate Editor
Sam Ryburn
Acting Editor
Dade Copy Reader
Wilson Lowrance Circulation Manager
Ralph Chardin Circulation Manager
Charles Moate Collection Manager
Hall Advertising Manager
Heth Business Manager

“Science keeps a dear school but fools will learn in no other.” — “Poor Richard.”

DRINKING

“As rare as a flask at a Davidson game,” is the new simile now employed to express a phenomenon by Charlotte writers. During the past year, Davidson students, faculty members, and trustees approved the policy of reading a statement at football games requesting that there be no drinking at Davidson College contests on Richardson Field. Princeton, through President Dodds, politely informed the public that drinking would not be tolerated on its premises. The University of Tennessee joined in the crusade with Davidson, to be followed by Duke University, if editorial policies mature.

“It is admittedly a hard problem for the college authorities to handle, and while they may never be able entirely to wipe out this evil, the experience of Davidson College has been wholesome at least to the end of creating a psychology against this disgusting practice on the part of patrons of its games,” The Charlotte Observer.

The idea of eliminating drinking at games was carried through under the leadership of Mr. F. L. Jackson. We hope other colleges will follow plans which states will correct the “drunkards” problem.

* * * *

HOMECOMING

Our next issue will be a special one, dedicated to Homecoming. However, it is not too early to prepare for what promises to be the largest celebration in Davidson’s history. Alumni, faculty, and friends have joined in planning to make the event a memorable one. Let’s get behind them and really put it over.

* * * *

COLUMNISTS

One of the symptoms of the present age is the popularity of columns. Some newspapers run more columns and features than news. Every budding journalist feels impelled to curry public favor by writing a column.

* * * *

NATIONAL DEBT

Thomas claims that the Angel Gabriel couldn't balance the budget. We know somebody that could. The Angel Gabriel doesn’t sell textbooks.

* * * *

DON WHARTON

It sounds like another success story but it’s no news when a Davidson alumnus makes good. Davidson was proud to see Don Wharton, '25, now on the editorial staff of Scribner’s (he started in high school as a printer's devil) sponsor their leading article on the Presidential campaign, and in Liberty on the straw vote.

* * * *

LONESOME

Last Saturday the student body was again treated to the spectacle of those lovely ladies, our sponsors, wandering to a lonely post on the sidelines. We respectfully suggest that the battalion furnish a military escort for these deserving fair. Or in case the future officers are bashful, The Davidsonian staff will be glad to arise to the occasion.

* * * *

DECORATIONS

On most other campuses decorations are a very vital part of the Homecoming celebration. Especially is this true of fraternity row; the Greeks vie with one another to see whose house shall present the most attractive appearance and welcome for Homecoming.

* * * *

CAMPAIGNING

It has been a long time since anything has caught the fancy of the student body like the current political campaign. So far even the most heated arguments have been friendly and good-natured and even the most violent partisans have kept their tempers. Everyone seems to be having fun. As this goes to press we do not know the outcome of the meetings last night and this evening. But we hope the speakers received a less enthusiastic hearing than was accorded the student campaign managers in chapel last week.

A current criticism of the American college student is that he takes no interest in national affairs. We feel that our student body in its recent activity has conclusively disproven that, as much as it has disproven the old adage that politics must be inevitably accompanied by mud-slinging and ill feeling. That Roosevelt led by such a large majority in our recent poll is no cause for wonder. Rather it is to be wondered at that Landon received any votes at all in a Southern college such as this one. Luck to both sides, and may the best man win!

* * * *

C.C.P.A. Convention

The N.C. C.P.A. convention proved to be very helpful to those who attended from Davidson during the past week. Benefits derived from the conclave would include the exchange of ideas, social contacts, increasing the general interest of colleges and institutions in this state for one another, and the enlightening talks by experienced newspaper men.

* * * *

‘Lights Out’

Since repetition is the first, second and third law of learning we want to again endorse our plea for better lighting in Chamber’s Auditorium. Honest, Mr. Treasurer, all we want is a chance to see what our speakers look like. And we could have better lighting with less current.

* * * *

Campus Comments

Logically I should devote my Campus Comments to a few words about our cheering and pep so far this year, but if you will permit me I would like to discuss another subject at this time. Sportsmanship here at Davidson is a thing seldom spoken of but always in evidence. It has become such a part of most of us that it is practiced almost unconsciously. It is, one might say, a part of our campus code, and consequently, when someone makes an infraction, no matter how slight, on this, our sportsmanship, it is at once evident and often embarrassing. A sportsman has been defined as “One who is fair and generous in sports: a good loser and a graceful winner.” Our football team is noted for its ever-present sportsmanship, and this past weekend was no exception, but some members of our Student Body, by their actions at the Citadel game, did not show their loyalty to the college and to our team in this respect.

Davidson covets for itself a position of distinct leadership in sportsmanlike conduct among Southern colleges and universities. Its sportsmanship exhibited towards other teams and other Student Bodies is an indelible measure of its greatness. The individual who by word or action tends to bring discredit to her name is undesirable. A true sportsman always realizes that the reputation of the entire college may be tainted by the unsportsmanlike action of one individual. Let’s watch ourselves, not only during the remainder of the football season, but throughout the entire year, and not do, either by word or action, anything that will mar the truly enviable and traditional reputation of our college.

GENE VOGLER, Varsity Cheerleader.

* * * *

THE DAVIDSONIAN CAMPUS CAMERA

STATION, WOSU
OLDEST COLLEGE STUDENT
MRS. ANGELINE WHITNEY, 92
IS ENROLLED IN THE SOCIOLOGY COURSE AT OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY. MRS. WHITNEY DOESN'T COME TO THE CAMPUS FOR HER CLASSES, BUT FROM THE COMFORT OF A CHAIR NEAR THE RADIO SHE “ATTENDS” THE CLASSES BROADCAST DAILY OVER THE UNIVERSITY'S STATION.

W. CULLEN BRYANT KEMP ATTENDED CLASSES AT COLUMBIA U FOR OVER 20 YEARS AFTER HIS FRESHMAN YEAR IN 1868. THERE WAS AN INTERLUDE IN HIS EDUCATION, AT WHICH TIME HE ACQUIESCED TO HIS FATHER'S WISHES AND ENTERED BUSINESS, BUT ON HIS FATHER'S DEATH HE RETURNED TO HIS STUDIES. HIS LAST REGISTRATION WAS IN 1922.

AN 61-YEAR-OLD WOMAN TOOK HER MASTER'S DEGREE IN ARCHAEOLOGY AT BROWN UNIVERSITY LAST YEAR.

* * * *

We would like to think of something clever to write but between you and us we aren’t very bright. We had stooges at the freshman game, Press Convention dance, Citadel game, Pika and Pi Kap parties, Ina Ray Hutton dance and the Fair but there must be too much hush money going around for we had to do all the dirty work ourselves. The Press Convention was a tremendous success from several viewpoints. Hoke Robinson was seen loping around on the tenth floor and Tiger Jim Morton slept under a bed and we’re wondering why. What made Sam Cothran sizzle twice because of a Salemite? Could it have been because someone else is having his Betty for Homecoming? Dick Vowles goo gooing across the table at the French. How did that car get in the lobby of the hotel? Fred Smith swinging it. The snakes abounded with Johnny Allen, Andy Allan, Ken Fryfogle. Maurice Peabody aided and abetted by Dave Sellars, Tom Breeden, Jim Gamble, John Cline and John Nichols. Joe Hunter and Lock Vass, outstanding members of the Nose Club, protected their badges of membership but came out of the game with black eyes. Tom Henderson waited and waited. Ken Fryfogle must have been surprised to look up and see his girl unexpectedly walk in with one of his brothers in the Greeks and a hometown boy at that. London Bridge may not have fallen down but it sho’ did swing. Ina Ray Hutton was late for her own dance but she made up for lost time. Brent Greene entertained the sax section with a false face act but the weaker sax could make faces, too. Colonel Liipfert had a St. Vitus no-break just before lights out. Perry Sloan and Yates Faison have a personal interest in the floor show at Club Lido and Rivoire does not sing “Stay ’Way From My Door.” Davidson was an appreciative audience at shake shows at the Fair. Ned Iverson had his past told and is still thinking of a proper retort. Spenser Goodman is going in the candy racket. Bob Johnston met some old friends. Lutz wants it known that his name is H. Lutz from now on. Bill Martin played bridge with Ina Ray Hutton and the girls at the Demolay house and won. Walt Dickson renewed an old acquaintance.S.—I request Tom Corbin, President of the Athletic Association, to write the next Campus Comments for The Davidsonian. Carl Carlson has changed politics again. Hal Overton and Stew Barnes are being diplomatic about this political situation for the good of the Student Store. J. C. Crowell and Ed Armfield have the same reason for going to Charlotte, but is it a triangle or a quadrangle? Henry Lyons has got something there.

Stolen Thunder
By DAYMOND TURNER

Note of Cheer... Relax, fellows, you have nothing to fear. At a recent convention, the deans of 81 men’s colleges were asked what to do with stupid students. The majority replied without hesitation: “Graduate 'em.”

Add Definitions... Taxi: the longest distance between two points. Rigid economist: a dead Scotchman. Worry: Interest paid on trouble before it comes due—Hastings Collegian.

There's A Thought... Spanish will soon be another dead language if they keep killing each other off. Of course, you knew that the Germans are naming their battleships after jokes so the English won't see them. A girl can make a spectacle of herself on just two glasses.

Add Similes... As likely as J. P. Morgan and Henry Ford coming out for the Townsend Plan. As versatile as a safety pin. As irrevocable as a haircut. As uncomfortable as a dachshund with a backache. As reliable as a campaign promise. As trite as a political speech.

Toast... Here’s to the girls—the good ones! But not too good. For the good die young, and nobody wants a dead one. Here’s to the girls—the old ones! But not too old. For the old dye, too, and nobody wants a dyed one.

His girl's picture is going to be in the December Physical Culture Magazine. Dick Wright is still getting letters from Baltimore. The girls at Queens wonder why Heman Clark doesn’t come over more often. Erney Dooley and Bill Bowlin went to Knoxville last weekend. Buddy Branton and Bill Bradburn went by plane to Greenville, Miss., and New Orleans. Democratic Chairman Sugg and Republican Chairman Port are roommates. The Landon forces didn’t win with a Lucky Strike Sweepstake, so it's rumored they'll pass out sunflower seeds instead of cigarettes at their campaign rally.

Homecoming is not far off, and we would like to suggest each dormitory and each fraternity house get up huge pep and welcome pennants to hang across the fronts of their respective houses. Other schools in the state have been having some pretty good ones and many of them. One dormitory had a large spider web of rope from the top of the house to the ground with the opposing team as the fly in the middle and the home team as the spider. Another had a miniature gridiron marked off in front and miniature players on it. Let's use our originality and think of some good ideas and make Centennial Homecoming more colorful.

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 28, 1936

OPEN FORUM

Dear Editor:
The president of the Student Body incurred grave possibilities in his speech at the Wednesday morning assembly. Just what its effect on the freshman class will be is a matter for conjecture. Not that we condone HAZING in any shape or form, but a certain amount of disciplinary paddling seems to us one of those “essential traditions” of campus life. It has survived continuous and vigorous opposition in all American colleges almost from their foundation, and this survival is itself evidence of a definite need.

We were all freshmen once, and all submitted more or less cheerfully to the pranks of playful upperclassmen. And to be a freshman is an essential part of everyone’s experience—to learn to take it, to submit with grace to a temporarily unpleasant situation. “He who gives orders must know how to take them.” And the duties required of freshmen on this campus are little more than the dictates of common courtesy and a respect for one’s elders. The yearling who avoids these regulations deserves chastisement.

The first-year men expect a certain amount of paddling. Some of them will go to extremes of “horsiness” and impertinence to obtain it. The few who seriously object to this mild horseplay are no more typical of the Davidson student body than those few upperclassmen who would persist in the older, more brutal form of hazing. We do not question the action of the Student Council in its sentence for hazing; we do not have all the facts of the case. But the question seems to us to be more one of sportsmanship than anything else. Hazing as such died out on this campus many years ago, we are sure it has not been and will not be revived. The whole matter seems to be much ado about nothing. For after all, it is a matter of give and take. Freshmen take it now and dish it out for the next three years. There is nothing shameful about it, nothing humiliating. There is some slight physical discomfort involved, a matter which passes in a moment. Often the sound of the paddle is drowned by the laughter of the supposed victim. As long as Davidson upperclassmen are gentlemen (we assume they are), they will not abuse this privilege through which they can render invaluable aid to the incoming class. Don’t let the fact that some freshman was unduly excited by one of those famous “prayer meetings” remove all means of discipline from the upperclassmen.—D. T.

Vowles Writes Article
In the Modern Language Journal for October 1936, appears an article entitled “Norwegian Loan-Words,” by Dr. G. R. Vowles, Professor of German. The editor of the Journal says, in “Among Our Contributors:” “Guy R. Vowles, Professor of German in Davidson College, has been a valuable contributor to the Journal, his latest previous article, ‘Vagaries of the Modal Auxiliaries in German,’ having appeared in the March 1935 issue.”

Qualification... A New York paper recently carried this want ad: “Wanted: A Princeton man or equivalent.” Another subtle man, a Yale graduate, wrote back and inquired whether by equivalent the ad meant four Harvard men or one Yale man working part-time.

Dog Latin... Boyibus kissibus sweeta girlorum, Girlibus likibus wanta someorum, Popibus hearibus louda smackorum, Kickabus boyibus outa the doorum.

Can Happen Here... Collegian (getting a shave): Barber, will you please give me a drink of water. Barber: A little hair in your throat? Collegian: No, just wanted to see if my throat leaks.—Technique.

In your Devotion... For YOU, my love, for you I'd battle snow and ice. There’s just one thing I'll never do: That's see the same show twice.

Hurried... Dean of Women: See here, young man, what do you mean by bringing this girl in at this hour? A Sophomore: Gosh, I gotta be at an eight-thirty class.

Cudid Fant... Last week saw a gathering of all the collegiates in North Carolina who have sold their souls to the printer’s devil, editors, managers, and other public enemies. Festivities were opened with a tea at the Charlotte Hotel—and the funny thing about it was, they actually served TEA! Up on the tenth floor, they had better ideas than that.

Friday afternoon the boys and girls of the press-club were fed in Chambers. In fact, everybody was pretty well fed up before it was over.

From what Kernel hears, our Editor in Chief and Business Manager must have given one Nozy Broom material for at least two columns. They're liable to pay out all their earnings in hush money.

The Observer says that 7,500 people saw last Saturday’s massacre of The Citadel. Why not be broad-minded about it and include the visiting bands under the heading of people? That would bring the total up nearer nine. Everybody who couldn't get a ticket just borrowed junior’s piccolo or harp and walked right in. They really came out on the national anthem. Ten people in Charlotte turned down their radios to listen. And I dare you to prove that's not so.

The local band really went to town on “London Bridge Is Falling Down.” Kernel suggests that a coin be tossed to decide whether the next new tune learned shall be “Ring Around the Rosey” or “Christopher Columbus.”

That exhibition of drill put on by The Citadel cadets was beautiful to watch. We understand there is still a greenish cast to the local staff. Wonder what would happen if the platoons walked through a couple of yards of banana skins? Interesting thought.

Serious suggestion: Why wouldn't it be a good idea for the powers that be to pick a platoon of the better soldiers on the campus and specialize on them, say, one of the drill periods each week? Before so very long we'd have a bunch that could add a bit of color to any event.

Since its mention in this column several weeks ago, Kernel has been asked many times for information concerning Iota Phi. Here's all he can tell: Eligibility requirements: hard to attain; very stiff; number of eligible men on campus: practically none; of every member: eligible. Initiation: object to become ineligible.

Despite the campus ban on student “politicking,” that seems to be about all that’s thought of hereabouts these days. “My friends!” is a cry used here so often that most of us say it in our sleep. As yet there has been no bloodshed, but one or two more talks in chapel should see Chambers floating away in a crimson stream.

Only one thing is lacking (distressingly lacking) to make this campus a small replica of the national political stage. That one thing is, nobody seems interested enough in his candidate's welfare to be free-handed with cigars. True, a prominent GOP did dispense a few on the stage the other day. But, darn it, he took them back again.

By the way, did you know that two of our number cast ballots for Browder in the recent poll? That's carrying loyalty to your school colors a bit too far. If Haile Selassie ran with him for vice-president, they’d probably carry the student body.

The Masquers are rehearsing “A Midsummer Night’s Dream,” with a cast that will make history. Wait till you see Thisbe with her long flowing curls, and the hero with love in his eyes. By the way, the casting director showed considerable foresight.