N Che Davidsonian

Founded By the Class of 1915

1935: Member 1936 Associated Collegiate Press Distributor of Collegiate Digest

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES Ten cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate year. Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson,
North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879.

ARTICLES FOR PUBLICATION must be in the hands of Managing Editors by 4:00 o'clock p.m., Monday. Letters to the Editor
are welcome, but all communications intended for publication must be signed.

JIM MORTON
R. P. MORROW, JR. - Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
Ows® Cooke - Managing Editor
Sam Cotran - Managing Editor
Eucnip Fant - Managing Editor
Hector McGeachy - Managing Editor
Dick Vowles - Managing Editor
Yates Raison - Sports Editor
Harry Kuykendall - Associate Editor
Howell Overton - Associate Editor
Harold Sugg - Associate Editor
Daymon Turner - Associate Editor
John Winn - Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
Charles Mayze - Circulation Manager
Bob Vance - Circulation Manager
Hoke Robinson - Advertising Manager
Bill Hitt - Collection Manager
Bill Dwyer - Assistant Business Manager

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 15, 1936

He that is slow to anger is better than the mighty; and he that ruleth the spirit than he that
taketh a city. Prov. 16:32.

Paragraphics....

The anonymous award of a ten thousand dollar Endowment Fund to Davidson College was a noble move—well worth our sincere
appreciation. No doubt, good use will be made of this money in aiding many students to secure an education which
would have been impossible otherwise. The gift was made with a view toward enlarging this institution's endowments for the forwarding
of a better Davidson.

Davidson College needs a school of journalism. Freshmen enroll for work on the three college publications with no experience whatsoever
in the duties of their respective choices. Previously, this need has been recognized by faculty members and students alike but
no definite steps have been taken to remedy the situation. Better publications would inevitably result from training received under instructors
who have had previous contacts with this type of work.

What Can We Give....

Davidson men have always been noted for their loyalty. In his Founder's Day address Friday morning Dr. Lingle presented a
challenge and a very real opportunity to prove that loyalty. The success or failure of the Centennial Building Program is
largely in our hands. For as undergraduates we are the ones most vitally concerned in the immediate betterment of our
college. Dr. Lingle, in his appeal for names, intimated that we might be called on to contribute ourselves. Do we
have to wait until requested?

The Davidsonian wishes to aid this program in every way possible. To this end, we would like to find out:
first, what the students themselves feel is most needed on our campus; second, how we as undergraduates can contribute to
the material success of the program; thirdly, what part, if any, your college newspaper can play in this campaign. Within
the next few days ballots will be placed in your chapel seats; please check the project which you feel we
need most. If you do not find the improvement you desire listed, write it in. Let’s make it our building
program!

The staff will welcome any suggestions as to how to secure more whole-hearted participation. The co-operation of every man in
the student body is needed to make this well-laid plan a concrete reality.

THE DAVIDSONIAN, A Greater Davidson....

Tribute to the brothers Richardson and our larger stadium! The addition to the stadium is a fitting start for our
Centennial Building Program and a much-needed improvement. We are grateful! But there are many other things which we must have
to make our college plant complete. A swimming pool, a social center, field house, a modern infirmary, new library—perhaps these
wants are most apparent to the student body, therefore the student body should “do something” about it. Why cannot the
students themselves undertake to raise money for one of these projects? How about it? What is the greatest contribution that
we as undergraduates can make?

DAVIDSON OFF THE RECORD

Students will be given an opportunity to express their opinion as to the most apparent need in the building project
to be started soon. Ballots will be distributed and students will check their preference.

Stardust of Vain Babblings

In the hue and cry of a bull-session—that be humbled weakness of ours which becomes properly derided as a frittering
of one’s energy—in dissertations from the pen and in the dignity of the classroom there is much use of the
word Liberal. What is a Liberal, when one searches to find his essence? Once we described him as an indefinite
creature whose heart is radical and head is conservative. Or again, a Liberal is an enlightened—broad-minded fellow who concedes “your
right to be wrong.” A Conservative who won’t. But these at best are pointless aberrations from the construction of Liberal
as a relative term.

Campus Comments

Dear Editor:

I am glad of the opportunity to write the first letter in the column which you are instituting. Before proceeding
to the main subject with which I propose to deal, may I say that I believe your idea to be
a good one, and I hope it will be kept up and in good order throughout the coming year. Criticism
and suggestion make progress possible in any undertaking, and I urge those in authority carefully to weigh and sift what
suggestions and criticism that may appear in the column from time to time.

Those who have been elected to office for the coming year are, no doubt, already forming their plans, but since
they are not yet in office, no suggestions or criticisms are possible. Further, such criticisms, etc., should come more from
members of the three lower classes, rather than from those of us who expect to graduate this year. Thus, I
should like to take this opportunity to comment on the general value of the Davidson student government, instead of offering
untimely, and probably unwelcome suggestions to those coming into office.

This past year has been a momentous and trying one for student government in general. Such crises as have been
faced by other student governments have caused many to question the value of student government in general. It is well
to add that the manner in which our sister school, the University of North Carolina, disposed of her crisis in
student government, should serve to prove in itself that student government is a workable and valuable institution.

During my term of office, I have had occasion to compare the Davidson student government with those of a number
of other colleges. Such comparison always makes me thankful that our student government was so carefully designed, and has been
so carefully operated ever since its installation. I recommend such a comparison to anyone, and I feel no hesitancy in
saying that I believe my opinion will be shared by whoever makes the comparison.

Recently, I heard several men praising the student government of a very well-known institution, and setting it up as the
smoothest in operation of all student government. Then a bystander who had chanced to serve under the government in question,
remarked: “No wonder it works smoothly. There is nothing one cannot do under it.” In other words, it prohibited nothing.
If such is the price which is required to have a smooth running student government, I sincerely hope the Davidson
student government will never operate smoothly. However, I do not believe it necessary to establish a weak system in order
to have a smooth running government. True, there is probably no easier way to achieve such ease of operation in
a short time.

Naturally, what really makes or breaks any government is the support or non-support of those governed by it. In student
government, one’s own contemporaries often make the operation of the government difficult. In making a plea for even more whole-hearted
support of the Davidson student government by the students, I realize, of course, that there are elements of our system
which are unpleasant, and which may even be undesirable. Nevertheless, these things I believe to be relatively unimportant, and I
point with pride to the student government of my college as one of the most successful ever instituted anywhere. I
wish I could impress this general view on those of the student body whom I know do not realize the
value of our system. Instead of trying further, I challenge you to make the comparisons which I myself have made.

In closing, let me add that there have been times when I have been antagonistic toward student government, but now
that I am nearing the close of my term of office, and can survey the situation more sanely, I recognize
the unspeakable desirability of it to those who are, and who ever will be, students of Davidson College.

Sincerely,
CARLETON B. CHAPMAN.

P.S.—I request Bob Lindsay, retiring President of the Senior Class, to submit a letter for publication in the next issue
of The Davidsonian.

A liberal is one who doesn’t take gargantuan pains to be consistent, one who doesn’t drive a dogma so far
that it aches, he aches and everybody around him aches.

Social Sciences

As students we welcome the $10,000 towards an additional endowment. And as observers from this end of the line we
suggest that it go for a chair in the business and economics department. The increasing importance of this field at
Davidson means that in a few years the enrollment in these courses will exceed the maximum classroom limit. Indeed, it
appears now that enrollment in these related subjects has about reached the limit. Increased seriousness and greater interest in business
and economics are the two greatest significant changes in the college boy character of the past five years.

Sociological Survey

Armed with pencil and paper and a battery of tests compiled by local students, a special investigator for Off the
Record conducted an investigation into the state of purity existing among the august students of this body. This ethereal quality
was deplorably absent, reported the young statistician. Out of a possible 100, The Barracks averaged 43. Rumple crashed through with
34 and Georgia Dormitory wavered below the 25 line. The delicate qualities of Watts Dormitory were not looked into, the
character of the tea-drinkers already attaining notoriety. The freshman average was slightly under 80.

Society Note

Davidson dog fanciers will rejoice to know that they will be represented in the coming dog show tonight at the
Charlotte Armory. Wilbur Edwards, dapper student body president-elect,will accompany some dachshund in the parade and Bud Okey will be the
proud escort of a Russian Wolf-Hound, and Tom Abbott and George Norflect will probably escort a couple of poodles.

Phi Delta Theta has acquired a “Gloomy Sunday” song which caused 21 Hungarians and one University of Michigan chemistry student
to commit suicide. We sincerely hope that Ab Price will crowd around the victrola. In fact, this campus would become
considerably less cluttered up if the whole Phi Delt ‘n Theta chapter would pass away.

The following were seen in Mooresville at 11:30 P.M., Friday—Hank Laughing-Boy Loftin, Treadway Freud Purnell, Jewell McLauren, Joe Thompson, Paul
Hudson, Enid Tickles—Me Bowers, Lemuel Q. Kornegay, Torrey Blueboy McLean, Frank Willingham, Schnozz One-Side, Nose-Hill, John Latimer, Bruce Edgerton, Mac
Davis, Hindu Hash-and-eggs Brown, and Henry Pinkup Mills.

Blots and Splashes... Tom Marchant learns that one who dances must pay the Piper. Six Johnson learns that eleven o'clock
means green light or a policeman. Billie Hornbeck... Mal Levi Grimes, who is just before donating us an Annual, is
making quite a play in Charlotte:—“Tell her I'm here.” What Dope went to Queens last week and found nobody (Continued
on Page 6)

APRIL 15, 1936

By DAYMOND TURNER

Q.E.D....

“And if you take all of the co-eds out of a college, what will follow?” the stern professor asked his
brilliant class. A masculine voice in the rear answered.—Afaroon. “Twill.”

Here is Thy Sting....

Razors pain you; Rivers are damp; Acids stain you; And drugs cause cramp; Guns aren't lawful; Nooses give; Gas smells
awful; You might as well live.

—Mercer Cluster.

Problem....

John can mow a lawn 50 feet by 75 feet in two hours. Fred can mow a lawn 100 by
100 in 2 hours and 5 minutes. William can mow a lawn 100 by 80 in 1 hour and 36
minutes.

Why do they all do it early in the morning when the neighbors are trying to sleep?—Bull Dog.

Shocking....

The Greensboro Daily News scooped in its story of the recent storm. According to its list of dead, one (unidentified)
man was electrocuted when he “came in contact with a live wire.”

Please! Mr. Hemin’....

From Furman comes the story of the philanthropist who presented a handsome electric washing machine to the inmates of a
girls’ reformatory. On the side was this touching inscription: “Wring out, wild belles.”

Embarrassing....

Beside each phone in a certain girls’ boarding house at the University of Wisconsin is a little placard saying: “Gentlemen
guests will please not answer calls.” This restriction was necessarily imposed following a most embarrassing incident last fall.

Verbose....

The dean of women called the house one day, was answered by a deep, masculine voice—"Third floor.”

A woman's vocabulary consists of just six words, namely five adjectives and a verb. The adjectives are: IDEAL, GORGEOUS, MARVELOUS,
MAGNIFICENT, EXQUISITE. Read down, the first letter of each adjective, and you will obtain the verb,—Cadet.

A NEW DEAL

A change in the set-up of the Pan-Hellenic Council is a subject which has been cussed and discussed on our
campus for the past four years and more. This year the discussion has seemed more prevalent than ever before. Several
plans have been advanced for improvement. We feel that any one of these would mean better and less expensive dances
for students. The Davidsonian does not necessarily endorse the suggestions below. They are similar to a plan which can work
and has worked on other campuses. They are offered here solely for purposes of constructive criticism and discussion, a synthesis
of several plans presented by members of the Davidson student body.

1. The member fraternities agree, severally and collectively, to underwrite all dances sponsored by the Council. In case of financial
loss, said deficit shall be prorated among the fraternities and assessed accordingly.
2. At the beginning of each school year, each fraternity shall pay dues of twenty-five dollars for the privilege of
Council representation. (This to cover expenses necessary for securing orchestras, making arrangements for initial set).
3. Each fraternity will be responsible for fifteen set tickets, to be sold among its own members and others not
in the fraternity groups.
4. The Pan-Hellenic Council representatives shall be entitled to flowers, favors, free admission to all dances, and five dollars per
Council set for services rendered.
5. The treasurer shall submit a full and itemized account of expenses for each set of dances not later than
the second Thursday following the set. Each Council member shall give a full report to his respective chapter.
6. The fiscal year of the Pan-Hellenic Council shall end on May 15th. At this time the treasurer shall distribute
the accrued profits among the member fraternities.
7. In case of financial deficit, the Council shall not be allowed to present another dance until all obligations for
the preceding set are paid.
8. Pan-Hellenic representatives will decide the price of tickets without consulting any of their respective social groups.
9. A reserve of $500 is suggested to cover details of each dance following the initial dance of the year.
This financial reserve is to be accumulated by setting aside one-tenth of the amount of money collected from each set
of dances until the stated amount is accumulated.

Compare the NEWS From Davidsonians of Years Gone By

Five Years Ago

Charlie Pierce is elected to the presidency of the Athletic Association. E. O. Guerrant will edit “The Davidsonian,” succeeding Grier
Martin. Plans are completed for the Bowery Ball, with “E. B. Robinson and His North Carolinians” being secured for the
dance. The band is better known as the Davidson College Orchestra. Cothran sets a new record in the discus of
128 feet, 10 and one-half inches in the track meet against Duke, which the latter easily won. The Wildcat tennis
team breaks even, defeating Catawba and losing to Wake Forest.

Ten Years Ago

This issue is devoted to a history of the R.O.T.C. department at Davidson. The corps is inspected for the honor
of Distinguished Rating. Plans for commencement are completed, with Hon. A. M. Scales to deliver the address. Harry Goodykoontz breaks
two sprint records in the meet against North Carolina University: the 100 yards in 10 flat and the 220 yards
in 22 and 1-2 seconds. Peen sets a new record in the 2 mile run with the time of 10
minutes, 26 and two-fifths seconds. The tennis team makes a tour of the south.

Among the GREEKS

PHI BETA THETA PI—Bill Coffin and Eddie Steere went to Asheville for the week-end. Charlie Malone spent Sunday morning in
Winston-Salem at the Moravian service. Louis Bullwinkle went home to Gastonia. Bob Atwater visited in Burlington. and Tom Ross went
to Concord.

PI KAPPA ALPHA—Bill Archer and Jim Hodgin spent the weekend in Salisbury. “Sky” Cline went to Concord. John Abernathy has
gone to Florida for a few days. Ken Knorr took his weekly excursion to Raleigh. Bob Andrews went to Charlotte.
Plans are being made for the annual Pika Spring Frolic in May.

KAPPA ALPHA—A party was given Saturday night in the chapter house, and many pretty young ladies were present. Bob Abell,
Tom Downie, Charlie Gladden, and Harvey McConnell journeyed to Chester for the weekend. Charlie Hines and Bill Pryer visited Greensboro.
Sandy Moffet, Charlie Mauze, Marshall Sanford, and Gilbert Palmer went to Winston-Salem. Horace Lutz went to his home in Hickory.

PI KAPPA PHI—Marion Chandler spent the weekend at his home in Southern Pines. Tom Cameron went home to Raeford. Alec
Boles visited in Fayetteville and Tom Corbin went to Greensboro. Dunlap Covington, “Salty” Peters, and Mills Taylor went to Winston-Salem.
A party was given in the chapter house Saturday night with girls present.

SIGMA ALPHA EPSILON—Tom Marchant, Perry Sloan, Henry Mills, and Frank Willingham went to Winston-Salem. Ed Armfield visited in High Point
and Kenneth Fryfogle visited Greenville. George Mathis visited Hoke Robinson in Columbia. A farewell party was given last night in
honor of Brother and Mrs. Grier Martin.

KAPPA SIGMA—Plans are underway for the annual spring party given by the chapter. Billy Higgins went to Rock Hill and
Hank Loftin to Gastonia. George Norfleet and Billy Hill were in Winston-Salem for the services Sunday morning.

GAMMA DELTA—Jack Ernest Dooley, Goose, and the Cooke Brothers went to Winston-Salem. Elmore Holt and George Jones went home to
Greensboro. Fred Stair was in Salisbury over the weekend. The entire chapter participated in a feed held Sunday night.

PHI DELTA THETA—Bill Boyd and Jack Lee spent the weekend visiting friends in Anderson, S.C. Val Cassels went to Concord.
John Partridge went to the German Embassy in Charlotte. A feed was given Thursday night after the regular meeting.

SIGMA PHI EPSILON—A formal banquet was held at the S. & W. cafeteria in Charlotte to celebrate the installation of
the new officers. Talks were made by Professor Fulcher and some retiring officers. About seventy-five were present. Many alumni from
Charlotte and Raleigh. Girls present included Misses Virginia Shaver and Brownie Rendleman from Salisbury, Miss Margaret Coley of Raleigh, Miss
Helen Stafford of Asheville, Miss Jane Bradley of Mocksville, Miss Margaret Lyons of Rogersville, Tenn., Miss Miriam McCall of Winston-Salem,
Misses Miriam Goodram and Agnes Brown of Davidson, and the following from Charlotte: Misses Marie Neikirk, Margaret Calder, Jean Orr,
Betty Sewell, Jane Ellen Taylor, Mary McBrayer, Jean Kent Early, Frances Farr, Mary Whitmore, Mary Virginia Buckley, Betty Baker, Margaret
Donahoo, Virginia Harlan, Harriet Sample, Martha Alexander, Jane Wiley, and Martha McNeely.
