WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 14, 1936 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Three

Eumenean Society Draws New Faculty Members

First Meeting of Year Well Attended by Members of Freshman Class

PRESIDENT IS PLEASED

Poet Expresses Opinions on Political and Social Question

Professor Avery Patton Lectures Here

Explains His Mistaken Hatred of Rich

By Bill Macllwinen

Mr. Carl Sandburg, noted poet and biographer, held an informal conference with Sigma Upsilon, the Davidson literary fraternity, after his lecture in Chambers Auditorium on the subject of “Hyacinths and Biscuits.” Due to a serious throat disorder, he spoke in answer to various questions by members of the fraternity, speaking in his accented, western drawl. When asked “Had he had any direct opposition to his free verse style?” he answered strongly in the affirmative. Seemingly suggesting a line from section nine in his new long-poem, “The People, Yes”—"Bringing changes into the great song."

In answer to a question in regard to Mr. Willis R. Benet's review of his new work in “Saturday Review of Literature,”

Delta Phi Alpha, honorary fraternity, will begin its activities for the coming year when it holds its first meeting on October 26. Sometime before this meeting is held, the fraternity will meet informally to select new members. The membership of the fraternity is limited to juniors and seniors, with two years of German and proficiency in the language as prerequisites for membership. Professor G. R. Vowles is the advisor of the fraternity. 

Membership of the fraternity is now made up of E. F. Horne, president; J. H. Ross, K. M. Scott, J. R. Hayworth, and R. H. Patterson.

Considerable time was devoted to the organization for the new year’s work and several committees were appointed. Bancroft Moseley was made chairman of the program committee for the coming year. President Stewart also announced that the election of officers for next year will take place sometime in November. Among other activities being planned for the near future is the initiation of freshmen or any other men desiring to join the society.

The response of the Freshman class is very encouraging,” said Bob Stewart, President of the Eumenean Literary Society, after the first meeting of the group, on October 6, which was attended by a number of first-year men. The program for the initial gathering of the Society consisted of only one part, which was a short talk by Fritz Dade on the history, aims, and other things concerning the Eumeneans. Freshmen were advised as to how they could make a successful beginning in literary work.

The Rexall Train, the world’s first convention train, which will stop in Charlotte on October 20, is creating tremendous interest along its 4,000-mile tour through the United States and Canada. Designed especially for convention purposes, the train includes two cars comfortably accommodating convention sessions, a cafeteria-diner serving lunch and

Beta Theta Pi—

Brothers Bulwinkle, Cunningham, Mutt, Nisbett, Dr. Ranson, John Smith, and Fred Smyre were guests at the house during the weekend.he said it. and Mrs. Burch of Reidsville, ciety 1 } ' Fort | “I first thought of writing a letter ge fe RO se ae: : : three months of the trip, more than] dinner for Rexall agents and their] @@ ' WH OATE ARREARS one Dr. and Mrs. Oren Moore of Char- President Stewart also expressed £00,000 inspected the exhibits aboard] guests at the meetings and lounge oy can Mr. B » asking a e FS Lotte, and Mrs. H. T. Smith of In-] a hope that joint meetings with the five hole, and its specially | car for their convenience. The en- read the latter forty-odd verses in dependence were also present at alliterary societies of YW and Winthrop College could be arranged for sometime this fall. tire train is air-conditioned. The program for the people at the gate. The early part of the Sunday night feed was also held Conceived by the United Drug Company to hold a convention of Rexall agents, the train is revolutionizing sales technique by taking the convention to the dealer's door. A permanent crew including the for the United Drug Company. Hauling the 12-car train is a specially built 350-ton streamlined locomotive. The entire train is air-conditioned. The program for the people at the gate. The early part of the Sunday night feed was also held well, what's the use? Mr. Benet has let mental age get him, unlike his brother, Stephen St. Vincent Benet. Kappa Sigma— Rexall agents, the train is revolutionizing sales technique by taking the convention to the dealer's door. A permanent crew including the for the United Drug Company. Hauling the 12-car train is a specially built 350-ton streamlined locomotive. The entire train is air-conditioned. The program for the people at the gate. The early part of the Sunday night feed was also held The chapter was honored by the National Fraternity. Brothers Hank Loftin, Paul Pittman, Ed Kuykendall, and Charles McParland Jr. carried on the tradition. Jean Scott and John Akers, Howard Arbuckle, W. M. Archer, Charles Harris, Charles Hamrick, Jim Hodgin, Alison Kuhn, Blanton Little, Zeb Long, Buck Mills, and Bill Snow were also present. * * * The guest minister for the college Vesper Service next Sunday evening will be the Rev. John McSween, D.D., pastor of the Purity Presbyterian Church of Chester, South Carolina. Dr. McSween is in great demand as a speaker for young people's conferences and college groups. He was guest minister at one of the vesper services last fall and was favorably received by the student body. Dr. McSween was formerly president of the Presbyterian College of Clinton, S.C., but about a year ago he resigned from this position and accepted the pastorate at Chester. The speaker is an active alumnus of Davidson College and is a member of Omicron Delta Kappa, national honorary leadership fraternity. During the 1929-30 church year, he was moderator of the Synod of South Carolina. Kappa Alpha— Brothers Anderson, Gladden, Mauze, Moffett, and Palmer visited Spartanburg, S.C., and Rock Hill, S.C. Brothers Abell and Downie visited Chester, S.C., and Lutz visited his home in Hickory, as did Hines. Sigma Alpha Epsilon— Brothers Bill and Nab Asmacd, Max Brittain, Jerome Clark, Bill Covington, Dr. Elias Faison, Shep Grigson, Bill Johnson, and Nat Speir visited the chapter. A feed was held Saturday after the game. Save Money And Still Get What You Want —AT THE— LITTLE PEP SANDWICHES A SPECIALTY To feel good after smoking— It's not just the pleasure a fellow gets out of smoking Lucky Strikes... it’s feeling good after smoking! Fresh as a daisy. A clean taste in your mouth. And when you start singing in your bath—your voice clear as a bell! That’s the great thing about a light smoke. Lucky Strikes—being made from the finest center-leaf tobaccos—taste good. And because they're a light smoke, you feel good smoking them. And after smoking them, too! * * NEWS FLASH! * * “Sweepstakes” bring pleasure to war veterans From a veterans’ home in Legion, Texas, a number of entries all in the same handwriting come in each week. Of course, we checked up to make sure that the entries conformed to the rules, and one of the men explained: “Most of the boys can’t get around—but I do and so I fill out their cards for them.” We're glad to say that the boys have been pretty good pickers, too. Have you entered yet? Have you won your delicious Lucky Strikes? Tune in “Your Hit Parade”—Wednesday and Saturday evenings. Listen, judge, and compare the tunes—then try Your Lucky Strike “Sweepstakes.” And if you're not already smoking Luckies, buy a pack today and try them, too. Maybe you've been missing something. You'll appreciate the advantages of Luckies—a Light Smoke of rich, ripe-bodied tobacco. Davidson Theatre - Wed.-Thurs, Oct. 14-15 MY MAN GODFREY Featuring Carole Lombard and William Powell Friday, Oct. 16 STAR FOR A NIGHT With Jane Darwell, Claire Trevor, and Arline Judge Saturday, Oct. 17 LONGEST NIGHT With Robert Young, Florence Rice, Ted Heely, Julie Haydon, and Catherine Concet in a fast-moving story Monday, Oct. 18 THE BIG GAME See THIS picture—A good pass-the-time picture Tuesday, Oct. 19 OLD HUTCH Wallace Beery, Elizabeth Patterson, Eric Linden, Cecilia Parker Copyright 1936, The American Tobacco Company