Page Six THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 7, 1936

Former Davidsonian Elected Moderator

The Rev. James Appleby of Mox- 
Maps of the town showing the residences of the faculty will be placed in the dormitories by The Davidsonian to correct errors made in the faculty directory published last week and to assist in finding them. 

Appleby graduated from Davidson in 1923 and then entered a theological seminary. He was elected moderator of the Fayetteville Presbytery, comprising Hoke, Harnett, Cumberland, Scotland, Robeson, and Moore counties, and part of Johnston, at the annual meeting held at Carthage, September 30.

Corrections of the faculty directory include:
- Mr. Bailey, 1 Concord St.
- Mr. Stipe, South Second St.
- Mr. Shoe, South Second St.

Classroom Quotes

The operation of the gridiron is important to make students feel at home. Worship services are held to make an impact on the students because of this.

STUDENT BODY GOVERNMENT ALLOTS

(Continued from Page 5)

While Wyoming received less than any of the others, North Carolina rated just below the average. The program this year will largely focus on selection and performance, also ensuring maximum participation from students and averaging undergraduates.

PAN-HELLENIC GROUP

(Continued from Page 1)

Harrison was elected in the body meeting that day. In his junior year, he won numerals in football and track. The other representatives on the council are Charlie Brown from Charlotte, Teeny Lafferty from Concord, and Vowles from Davidson. Vowles is a member of The Davidsonian staff, Scripps 'n Pranks, and Sigma Phi Epsilon, a social fraternity. Two are elected from the sophomore class, three from the junior class, and five from the senior group to act as student council members. The presidents of the three upper classes and the president of the student body are student council representatives also.

Davidson Publishes Guide For Community

There are many stories about Davidson men’s travels. One notorious trip involved Cage Brewer and Bob, who picked up a ride in a new Ford roadster which failed to reappear at the end of the promised 15-minute wait in Greensboro, along with a suitcase and a hundred dollars worth of clothing—all belonging to the two hitch-hikers. Another story involves a party that, after finally finding their way out of Washington's railroad station, spent the rest of the night on the Capitol steps.

Davidson men found the Midshipmen at Annapolis to be very hospitable hosts, but after the game, most of the Wildcats returned to Washington for a celebration. The trend was towards the South, with some Davidsonites present at a banquet held in Edenton. 

President Wood of the Davidson Hi-Y attended the National Hi-Y President's speeches at Berea, Ky., and served as temporary secretary during the county meeting this past Sunday.

PAN-HELLENIC COUNCIL

(Continued from Page 1)

The council has engagements at many colleges in the east, including William and Mary, the University of North Carolina, and Sweet Briar College.

RENT A CAR FOR THE WEEKEND

M. P. Henderson
GULF GAS & OIL
415 South Tryon Street

PAUL & CRYMES, INC.
SPORTING GOODS
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

YANKEES LEAD

(Continued from Page 4)

The Yankees scored a heavy 18-4 victory. Joe McCarthy’s artillery had really loosened up that Friday afternoon. Bill Terry was able to pick up the remnants of his boys after the battle and patch them up, so they could hold the Yanks down to a 2-1 victory on Saturday afternoon and a 5-2 victory on Sunday. On Monday afternoon, Manager McCarthy restored enough morale to pull a fast one on the Giants, with a bombardment from the Yanks in the hard innings.

STRONG TEAM

(Continued from Page 4)

The Wildcats had a touchdown halted by a holding penalty. Two fumbles near their goal line also hindered their efforts.time fighting line threw back four Navy power plays for no gain. Unable to penetrate the Davidson line, the Midshipmen took to the air on their second break. Corbin intercepted a Navy pass on his own six-inch line and was hurt on the play. Lafferty, the fresh Navy Tar, scored on a pass. In an attempt to march down the field for two successive touchdowns, which carried them into Navy territory, when it appeared another touchdown march was on, Armfield’s pass on his 17, raced down the sidelines and lateraled the ball to Ferrara, who was finally pulled down from behind by Jim Johnston. After three yards in three plays, Reiman found a hole and sped through for a touchdown. The game ended a minute later with Davidson's second team attempting long passes. Navy has two great backs in Ingram and Antrim, while Soucek stood out in line play. For Davidson, Armfield and Hunter played well.

JUNIORS-SOPHS TIE
(Continued from Page 4)
It was decided to play a ten-minute extra period, but no score was made during that period. The remainder of the intramural games are expected to be played this week, unless weather intervenes. Announcements will be made in chapel as to the date of these games, according to Mokey Faison.

ADVICE TO FRESHMEN
(Continued from Page 3)
Robert Maynard Hutchins gloomed: “The world seems to be rushing toward the destruction of liberty of conscience, of worship, of speech, of thought... This tendency will not be without its effects in our own country. Already we see signs of the growth of bigotry and repression... We see battle lines drawn that may determine the fate of our form of government, and of our generation.”

“At St. John’s College (Annapolis, Md.), President Amos Walter Wright Woodcock, one-time U.S. Prohibition Director, exhorted: ‘You are urged to study hard, be gentlemen, and not to use liquor in any form.’”

The smashing defense ball, while Johnston and Purdy knifed through to spill the Navy backs for losses time after time. Williams and McClelland both stood out on defense.

KITTENS WALLOP
(Continued from Page 4)
In the last few minutes of the game, P.J.C.’s 2-yard line paved the way for the final touchdown. The lineup was as follows: Ends, McLean and McClintock; tackles, Cagle and Pennington; guards, Capt. Rice and Yates; center, Richmond; quarterback, Rackley; halfbacks, Garret and Watkins; fullback, Hunter. The Wildkittens will go to Spartanburg, S.C., next Friday where they play the Wofford freshmen.

DEMON DEACONS IN
(Continued from Page 4)
The second break came as the Vols were running a reverse play when the oval plopped out of the hands of Wood Avery, who galloped 45 yards unimpeded for the score.

ORDERS FOR R.O.T.C.
(Continued from Page 3)
The “Torch of Knowledge” collar ornaments will be worn on the collar of the coat in the holes provided. Collar ornaments are not to be worn on the shirt. The uniform should be kept clean and neatly pressed at all times. It should never be worn as civilian clothing in order to protect it.

CAT-NIPS
(Continued from Page 4)
Eddie Watkins was the outstanding luminary for Coach Laird’s charges, with Rackley, a triple threat, McClintock, Yates, and Hunter showing up well. Manager Dave (Hard Rock) Sellars has lined up a real suicide schedule, playing Wofford Frosh, South Carolina Frosh, Duke Frosh, and Blue Ridge. Kittens, beat Wofford Friday. From Eddie Brietz: “Waleski of Randolph Macon kicked off to Kielpenski of Richmond—just a couple of good old F.F.V.’s from Turtle Creek, Pa., Milwaukee.” Game time, Saturday: 2:30.

Miss Anne Griffeth spent the past weekend with her parents. Miss Griffeth is attending Mitchell College in Statesville this year. The regular meeting of the As You-Like-It Club met with Miss Florence Barnes this past Friday.

WILDCATS MEET V.M.I.
(Continued from Page 4)
Seven sophomores are also available for line positions. Red Echols and John Seaton will contest Farley for guard positions. Strickler and Gray are probable tackles. Ray Taylor and Ray Britton are two sophomore ends who want to oust the veterans, while Dick Irby is another V.M.I. center. The Cadet flying squadron will do some rambling this season, as they only play three of their ten games at home. Last year the Wildcats defeated V.M.I. at Lexington by 14-6 in a muddy gridiron tilt. This year an improved Cadet squad will come here to meet one of Davidson's strongest elevens, in the Wildcats’ first home game this year.

Mrs. Maitland, an authority on auxiliary work, spoke in Davidson on Monday. She is from Richmond and spoke at the meeting of the local auxiliary.

SIGMA ALPHA EPSILON
Founded at the University of Alabama, March 9, 1856
109 Active Chapters—Colors: Royal Purple and Gold
“Every Job a Good One”

N.C. THETA CHAPTER OFFICERS
Heman Clark, Pres.
Hoke Robinson, V.-Pres.
Fitz Dade, Secretary
Yates Faison, Treasurer
Henry Mills—Correspondent

MARION DAVIS CO.
Standard Printing Company
205 South Tryon St.
117 Garland Court
Charlotte, N.C.

CHARLOTTE’S LEADING MEN’S STORE

THIS WEEK WE SALUTE
© 1936, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.
... They’re milder, they have a more pleasing taste and aroma.