THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 22, 1936

Eight Seniors Are Listed In Students’ “Who's Who”

Barnett, Branton, Brown, Cathey, Chapman, Griffin, Purnell, And Windham Are Selected Because of Their Campus Leadership

Eight Davidson seniors were listed in the second volume of Who’s Who Among Students in American Universities and Colleges because of their leadership. Those selected are: Martin Barnett, Coleman Branton, Lamont Brown, Henry Cathey, Charleton Chapman, Dan Griffin, Treadway Purnell, and Cole Windham.

Martin Barnett is a member of Sigma Phi Epsilon social fraternity, member of Scabbard and Blade, Y. M. C. A. Cabinet, president of publications, editor of Year Book, member of Phi Beta Kappa and Omicron Delta Kappa, and a member of the varsity tennis team.

Coleman Branton is a member of Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity, president of Pan-Hellenic Council, Captain of Scabbard and Blade, advisor to the freshman class, Rhodes Scholarship applicant, president of Phi Gamma Delta, and member of Omicron Delta Kappa.

Lamont Brown is a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon, editor of The Davidsonian, vice-president of Omicron Delta Kappa, president of his fraternity, member of student council, president of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association, and member of Scabbard and Blade.

Henry Cathey is a member of Pi Kappa Alpha, co-captain of football, president of Athletic Association, manager of Student Store, vice-president of student body, member of Omicron Delta Kappa, and a member of Scabbard and Blade.

Carleton Chapman is a member of Phi Delta Theta, president of student body, president of his fraternity, president of Omicron Delta Kappa, awarded Rhodes Scholarship, and president of Sigma Upsilon.

Dan Griffin is a member of Phi Delta Theta, purchasing manager of Student Store, junior marshal, business staff of Year Book, member of Omicron Delta Kappa, and member of Scabbard and Blade.

Treadway Purnell is a member of Kappa Sigma, judge of court of control, vice-president of Y. M. C. A., member of Omicron Delta Kappa, member of Scabbard and Blade, captain of rifle team, managing editor of Year Book, and president of Literary Society.

Cole Windham is a member of Beta Theta Pi of which he is president, member of student council, co-captain of football, vice-president of “D” Club, member of Omicron Delta Kappa, and member of Scabbard and Blade.

NEW VOLUMES GIVEN LIBRARY

A number of new books have been added to the library, including travel, drama, fiction, fine arts, and social science books. There are also two books on Japan. The Art of Michelangelo, by H. H. Powers, deals with the individual works from the hand of that great artist, and also with that larger spiritual fact of which these are the fragmentary and imperfect expression. King Jasper, by Edward Arlington Robinson, is a poem, a medium for expressing Robinson's own ideas on this puzzling world. Never has he written lines of greater beauty or penetration. Over and over passages occur, which one recognizes unmistakably as the essence of truth — fine, honest, and absolute. Wheels and Butterflies, by William Butler Yeats, is another volume showing the author’s philosophy of life, and the lyric beauty of his genius for words. Facing Two Ways, by Baroness Ishimoto, and A Daughter of the North, by Madame Sugimoto, are true-to-life descriptions of a woman’s life in Japan. One deals with the life of an aristocrat, the other with the life of the peasant. Of interest to students of sociology and other social sciences are Successful Houses and How To Build Them, An Outline of Abnormal Psychology, Gladly Teach, and Women in Eighteenth Century America. These books are by Charles E. White, Jr.; The Modern Library; Bliss Perry, and Mary Sumner respectively.

The library display this week featured three beautiful reproductions of famous pictures of the Easter theme. The first, by Hofman, is his famous “Gethsemane.” “The First Easter Dawn” shows two angels anxiously watching the sun rise behind Calvary. The third picture is a famous painting of “The Holy Women by the Tomb.”

If fifteen letters were added to the alphabet, the English language could be learned in two weeks, says Dr. Laubach, international authority.

BAND PLAYS VARIED PROGRAM ON BROADCAST

The Davidson Band played a 15-minute program over WBT as the regular weekly broadcast last Friday night from 10:15 till 10:30. The program was: “O Davidson,” by Shields, Yoder's novelty, “Military Band,” a concert march, “Vanished Army,” by Alford. “Largo” from Dvorak’s New World Symphony was the featured number of the broadcast period. The band played one of Souza’s greatest marches, “Fairest of the Fair,” and closed as usual with “O Davidson.”

The radio program for next Friday night will be the last of the year.

LEADERS PLAN PILGRIMAGE TO OSLO, NORWAY

Dr. Arch C. Cree Reports Large Number to Sail June 27th

Dr. Arch C. Cree, of Salisbury, world traveler and religious leader, who led in the movement of Southern Baptists to their World Congress in Berlin, Germany, in 1934, reports that a large number of Southern religious leaders of all denominations are planning to join with similar groups from the North and sail June 27 from New York in a great pilgrimage to the World Sunday School Convention, which meets in Oslo, Norway, July 6-12th, this year. He reports that already over two hundred have registered for this notable pilgrimage.

The World Sunday School Convention is an interdenominational, interracial, international organization. A colorful concourse of Christians of every clime, color, creed, culture and country, meeting for the sole purpose of stimulating the study of the Bible. The convention was organized in London, England, in 1889, with 910 registrations and a reported membership of over 19,000,000 Bible students. At Los Angeles in 1926 there were 7,631 registered delegates and over 5,000 visitors. At Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, in 1932 over 100 countries were represented, reporting over three million teachers and a constituency of over 36,000,000 students of the Bible. The movement is growing at a rate of over a million a year.

Dr. Cree advises that pilgrim groups by states are being formed with excursions over Europe and to the Holy Land; that churches, Sunday Schools and other organizations are planning to send pastors, superintendents, teachers and other leaders as their representatives. Complete details and full information regarding the convention may be secured by writing Dr. Cree.

Alston Will Deliver Sermon At Vespers

Young People’s Worker Will Lead Vespers Again

The guest minister next Sunday evening, April 26, will be the Reverend Wallace M. Alston, of Richmond, Va. Mr. Alston is now the director for Young Peoples’ work for the whole Southern Presbyterian Church. The headquarters for this work are in Richmond. Prior to taking up this work, he was pastor of the Maxwell Street Presbyterian Church in Lexington, and is still a young man who is devoting his life to work among young people.

DEPUTATION TEAMS TALK AT CHARLOTTE AND STEELE CREEK

Dr. Foreman, Boggs, Glass, McGeachy, and Walker Lead Services

Dr. K. J. Foreman, Wade Boggs, Harvey Glass, Hector McGeachy, and John Walker took charge of the services at the Steele Creek Presbyterian Church last Sunday, April 19. As all the worship services were in charge of Davidson men, the day was known as “Davidson Day” at Steele Creek. Wade Boggs taught the intermediate Sunday School class at Steele Creek. Professor Foreman taught the senior Sunday School class. Harvey Glass taught the young men’s Bible Class. Hector McGeachy taught the men’s Bible Class.

Professor Foreman gave the Sunday morning sermon. He talked on “The Bread of Life.” He spoke of the symbolism of four types of bread: first, bread earned by the sweat of the brow, using his text, "Give us this day our daily bread.” Second, bread, a gift from God, or “bread of providence.” Third, the bread of communion, the bread which Christ broke for His disciples. Fourth, the bread of courage. He urged his hearers to stand firm “amid trial even with a mouldy crust in the hands, but with a heart full of faith in God.”

A pulpit Bible, a gift of the descendants of William Cooper, a signer of the resolution passed by the Steele Creek church on June 17, 1800, was presented to the church by S. A. Robinson of Gastonia, who is secretary of the board of trustees of Davidson College. It was accepted by Rev. J. M. Walker, pastor of the church.

Wade Boggs and John Walker had charge of the young people's services Sunday evening. The services were attended by both the young people and the older members of the congregation. The subject on which Wade Boggs and John Walker spoke was “Purpose of Life.” They discussed life in terms of Christian goals. Boggs’ talk dealt with the misconception of the right goals for a Christian. Walker told what the right goals for a Christian were.

Steele Creek Presbyterian Church is the largest rural church in the south. It is situated six or seven miles southwest of Charlotte. The Rev. J. M. Walker, Davidson graduate of 1907, is pastor of the church.

Bill Manson spoke to a joint meeting of the younger and older boys and their parents at the Y. M. C. A. in Charlotte Sunday afternoon at 2:30. The speech was a feature of Parents’ Day at the Charlotte Y. M. C. A. The subject of Manson's speech was “The Fuller Christian Life,” which he discussed, especially regarding the responsibilities, sacrifices, and rewards of parents, sons, and daughters. He brought out the fact that “above all a deep brotherhood must exist between man and man, in order to have a fuller Christian life.”

Ken Scott gave a talk at the Christian Endeavor Union in Charlotte at 4 o'clock Sunday afternoon. The talk was on “The Contributions of the Negro to Christian Religion.” The meeting of the union was held in Johnson C. Smith University in Charlotte and was interracial in nature. It was sponsored by the Mecklenburg Christian Endeavor Union, Chester Morrison, president. In his talk Scott brought out the great importance of the negro spiritual, as an evangelistic agent.

The Davidson High School Orchestra, under the direction of Warren P. Babcock, rendered several selections at the school chapel exercises Friday morning, April 17. The orchestra will leave for Greensboro the following Friday, where they will enter the State Music Contest, in Class D.

Dr. M. E. Sentelle returned from Knoxville, Tenn., where he was called due to the illness of his father.

Mrs. C. K. Brown and her children have gone to Tallahassee, Fla., where they will visit several weeks with relatives.

Miss Hattie Thompson was hostess to the Book-Lovers Club Saturday afternoon, April 18. Mrs. J. R. Withers and Mrs. W. L. Lingle were in charge of the program which was a discussion of the 19th Century American Poets, Bryant, Poe, and Lanier.

Dr. and Mrs. Charles Hattauer, of New York City, have returned to their home after a visit of several days with Mrs. Hattauer’s parents, Dr. and Mrs. W. R. Grey. Mrs. Grey accompanied them to New York.

Wieck Pfohl was one of the program of the first annual musicNorth Association, Charlotte, Whey Ip (one of the four judges for the festival of the School Music) was held April 18 in Carolina. Miss Hazel, from the music department at Salem College, was a week-end guest of Miss Letitia Reid of Currie.

Coach Heath Whittle has returned from the Mooresville hospital where he underwent an operation for appendicitis.

Mr. and Mrs. Fred Hengeveld entertained several guests at a buffet supper Wednesday evening, April 15.

Mr. and Mrs. Thane McDonald, of Ann Arbor, Mich., spent several days at the home of Mr. and Mrs. J. C. Pfohl. Mr. McDonald’s organ concert Friday night concluded the Davidson College Concert series.

Mrs. J. M. McConnell is in Durham visiting her son and daughter-in-law, Mr. and Mrs. John D. McConnell.

Dr. Kenneth J. Foreman was the guest pastor at the Steele Creek Presbyterian Church Sunday morning, April 19.

Mr. and Mrs. Robert Burns, of Scotland, were week-end guests of Dr. T. W. Lingle.

Mrs. T. W. Lingle has been called to New York due to the illness of her grandchild, Clara Garth.

FORENSIC FRAT INITIATES (Continued from Page 1)
Wade Sugg presented the principles. At the end, the retiring president, Boggs, made a great inauguration speech exhorting all the members to pay their dues. He said that “the negro spirituals present the gospel message to people without them realizing that it is religion.” He further stated that “the negro spirituals are able to reach people that a sermon cannot. Spirituals are important, like them, and ask people for them.”

MAGAZINE REVEALS LITERARY EFFORTS FROM PROFESSORS
Faculty Men Contributors to Literary Journal

A glimpse into the bound library copies of that ancient forerunner of the Yowl, The Davidson College Magazine, reveals many interesting facts. It was in 1917 that Prof. Henry Lilly, then annual editor, was at the height of literary productivity. In one copy of that year’s magazine can be found a little melodrama entitled “Jake's Fate.” And then there's a poem by Prof. Lilly called “Questions.” It begins like this: “Little Violet all so blue.”

During the same year, Prof. O. J. Thies of The Davidsonian and a contributor to the magazine, was business manager. In one copy of the magazine, there was an article by that professor entitled “The Vindication of Selfishness.” In 1921, Prof. W. P. Cumming was editor of the quarterly publication. In those days, editorial comment was profuse and more literary than in the Yowl. Prof. Schenck was also a contributor during that year. One of his stories was entitled “The Lure of Distant Lands.” To all those interested in the literary products of their favorite professors, The Davidson College Magazine can be found in the reading stacks of Room 7.

CINEMATIC COMMENTS
Wed-Thursday, April 22-23
Desire
Exotic Marlene Dietrich in an ultra-sophisticated role of a jewel thief who dupes Gary Cooper into assisting her. Supported by an excellent cast.

Friday-Saturday, April 24-25
Captain January
This is the touching, human story of an old lighthouse keeper who adopts a baby. Charming Shirley Temple is at her best, and Guy Kibbee gives a good performance as the old lighthouse keeper who adopts her. Slim Summerville is in the supporting cast.

Monday, April 27
Love Before Breakfast
Carole Lombard is a girl who gets chased by a wealthy suitor, and then turns and chases him when he feigns indifference. Preston Foster fits the part of the wealthy suitor, and he and Miss Lombard make a charming team.

Tuesday, April 28
Remember Last Night
A wild party, hangovers, four murders, and a suicide are combined in an effort to imitate the “Thin Man.” Sally Eilers, Constance Cummings, and Robert Young try hard to make it come up to expectations, and it is a fast-moving and thoroughly interesting picture.

College Band Enters State Band Contest
The Davidson College Concert Band will go to Greensboro tomorrow to play for the N.C. State Band Contest, which is in session there Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday of this week. Professor Pfohl, director of the Davidson Department of Music, along with Earl A. Slocum of the University of North Carolina and Raymond Dvorak of the University of Wisconsin, will serve as judges during this contest. The Davidson band is to play an exhibition concert for those attending the meet. Mr. Pfohl, along with Dupre Rhame of Furman and Emmett Gore of Winthrop College, were the judges of instrumental music in the North Carolina Music Festival.

WHILE IN Charlotte
LANFORD GRILLS
SELECTED FOODS AND DRINKS

Mr. Alston is a graduate of Columbia Theological Seminary at Decatur, Ga., and held a pastorate in Atlanta before going to Kentucky. He conducted one of the vespers services here last fall and brought a message that was well received.

BARBER SHOP
319 WEST TRADE STREET
114 WEST TRADE STREET
226 SOUTH TRYON STREET

All Latest Phonograph Records
PARKER-GARDNER CO.
118 WEST TRADE STREET
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Meet Your Friends Here

Needs of Education For Modern Girls Discussed
Dean of Barnard, in Talk on “Making Life More Interesting,” Says Girls Today Need Education to Fit Them For Work and Play

Milwaukee, Wis.—(ACP)—“Should girls be educated? If so, why, and how far?” Thus pondered Barnard’s famed Dean, Virginia C. Gildersleeve, in a discussion with trustees, faculty, and guests of Milwaukee-Downer Seminary last week. Answering her own questions in the talk she called “Making Life More Interesting,” Miss Gildersleeve summed up her views with the remark that she believed the primary reason for giving a college education to women was to make life more interesting to them and to make them more interesting to their families.

“When there were candles to be made, and such home occupations,” she said, “the more women in the home the better. Maiden aunts were welcome. But aunts are not so welcome now—just to sit by the fire and be supported.” This, Miss Gildersleeve declared, indicated that women should develop their own abilities to work and play—whether in the field of Egyptology, medieval Chinese paintings, or badminton. Dean Gildersleeve explained that within the field of government there is ample opportunity for women. Women, she cited, have more leisure for politics than men. In the field of human relations, a college education is valuable, the speaker said, because college-educated women, once married, tend to stay so. She cited statistics indicating that divorce among college women is much rarer than in the case of non-college women.

BRILLIANT BOWERY (Continued from Page 1)
The preceding the intermission of the Military Ball will consist of nineteen members of Scabbard and Blade and about twenty Junior R.O.T.C. officers. These men are: W. M. Archer, W. C. Branton, L. Brown, M. J. Barnet, W. L. Bulwinkle, H. A. Cathey, T. Downie, D. B. Griffin, J. M. Hodgin, J. W. Hassell, R. P. Morrow, C. L. Okey, J. R. Pearce, L. T. Purnell, R. B. Sours, W. M. Taylor, W. R. Taber, C. I. Windham, and E. C. Wooten. The Junior officers are: J. G. Anderson, R. S. Bigham, J. E. Branch, T. M. Breeden, J. O. Branton, A. O. Cooke, W. S. Edwards, E. S. Finley, C. B. Gladden, K. E. Frytogle, B. R. Howell, J. I. Hunter, J. D. Johnston, H. L. Kuykendall, A. S. Moffett, J. T. Morton, J. R. McClelland, H. H. Overton, A. T. Port, R. H. Patterson, M. C. Sanford, E. D. Turner, and F. E. Vogler.

LOCAL WOMEN'S GROUP (Continued from Page 1)
The session included a duet by Mrs. George Watts and Mrs. G. R. Vowles, and a talk “Your Part With Young People,” by Dr. Kenneth Foreman of the college faculty. Mrs. C. H. Hamilton of Davidson is president of the Woman's Auxiliary of Concord Presbyterial, and Miss Cornelia Shaw, librarian of the college, is corresponding secretary. Entertainment for the Presbyterial meeting was arranged by Mrs. George Watts, president of the local auxiliary; Miss Mary Black, chairman of arrangements; and Mrs. G. G. Gaffney, chairman of the luncheon committee.

Welcome Thru Saturday
As thrilling as “West Point of the Air!”
"THE SKY PARADE"
WILLIAM GARGAN
KATHERINE DeMILLE
KENT TAYLOR
GRANT WITHERS
LILLIAN LEE

They renounced their love! They celebrated their parting!—only to discover that they could not leave each other—ever!

SULLIVAN TIME. WE LOVE NEXT Mon.-Thru Thurs.