THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 12, 1936

“GRAHAM PLAN” PASSES SOUTHERN CONFERENCE

Davidson and Five Other Colleges; University Of Richmond, William and Mary, Wake Forest, Citadel, Furman, Admitted to Conference

STRIKES AT SUBSIDIES

Dr. Graham’s Program Places Less Emphasis on Athletics

The “Graham plan,” for deemphasizing athletics, was passed by a 6-4 vote shortly before midnight last Friday at the Southern Conference convention in Richmond. There were two main issues to be decided at this meeting: first, the adoption of the “Graham plan,” and second, to decide on the admittance of the eight institutions which applied for membership in the conference. Six of these eight gained admittance to the Southern Conference: Davidson, University of Richmond, William and Mary, Wake Forest, The Citadel, and Furman. Presbyterian College and Centre were denied membership.

Duke University, V. M. I., South Carolina, and Clemson were the institutions to turn in an opposing minority vote. Dr. Graham himself was responsible for submitting two of the six affirmative votes. He submitted votes in favor of his plan for the University of North Carolina and for N. C. State, the two institutions he heads. The other four votes which went to enforce the plan came from the University of Virginia, Washington and Lee, V. P. I., and the University of Maryland.

The “Graham plan” was said to have originated due to the mistake of an alumnus of the University of North Carolina. The alumnus, it was said, had pledged a certain amount for a fund to be used in “purchasing” athletes for the university. The alumnus had forgotten to whom he must send his check for the worthy cause, so he merely addressed it to Dr. Frank Graham. “Dear Frank,” he wrote, “enclosed you will find a check for the amount pledged for the purpose of buying football players for the university.”

Dean Wannamaker of Duke and William H. Harth of South Carolina offered the staunchest opposition to the new code. Dean Wannamaker delivered to the members of the conference a well-defined and very logical talk in opposition to the plan. Dave Clark, an alumnus of N. C. State, published in “The Charlotte Observer” a very fiery article against the plan. He stated that if this plan were put into effect, football in the Southern Conference would return to a status on a par with Lenoir Rhyne and Elon.

Dr. Graham read and expanded his plan to the members of the conference. He delivered a two-hour lecture on the subject Friday afternoon. The original idea was to (theoretically) return football to an amateur standing.

Meeting. Two Faculty Members Confined By Sickness

Two members of the college faculty and administrative staff have been confined to their homes recently by illness. Prof. Archibald Currie has been suffering from a mild attack of bronchitis and has been confined to his bed since last Saturday, not attending his classes. He is reported to be recovering rapidly and is expected to return to his duties soon. Grier Martin, alumni secretary, was the victim of a furnace explosion on last Sunday morning, when he poured kerosene on the fire to build it up, and suffered severe burns about his face. He is recovering and is expected to be at his post again within a few days.

DISCUSSION ON LENSES IS LED BY DR. S. C. LYON

Open Forum Is Held After Talk; Group Meets Once Every Two Weeks

Dr. S. C. Lyon led a discussion of lenses at the meeting of the Photographers’ Club held last Wednesday afternoon. This discussion dealt with the types and kinds of lenses and their particular use or uses. Dr. Lyon spoke also on the special value that each different kind of lens had in taking certain photographs. Following the opening talk made by Dr. Lyon, there followed a general round table discussion on these many lenses in which the members asked questions concerning their use and operation and other questions that arose. This is, as always, the usual procedure at the meeting of this club. The Photographers’ Club meets once every two weeks in Dr. Lyon's classroom, 335 Chambers, at four o'clock on Wednesday afternoons. It is a very informal organization and anyone interested in amateur photography is welcome, says Dr. Lyon. There are no dues as all expenses are carried by self-imposed assessments upon the members. Dr. Lyon is extremely interested in photography as an avocation and it was mainly through his assistance and under his guidance that the club was organized three years ago. The club operates its own dark room in Shearer Hall.

Phi Chandelier Suffers From Ravages of Time

Historic Napoleon Glasswork Is Shrouded in Tradition

(The following is an article in The Davidsonian which laments the gradual degradation of one of its most beautiful and ancient landmarks).

By SHERRARD RICE

If you ever want to get sentimental about something, or if you feel that a little cry might do you good, just go to the Phi Hall and take a good look at the chandelier there. First, think of it as it is today, somewhat resembling a lonely, old mother, who is wistfully recalling the good old days when her children were young and played at her feet. Then, try to picture it around twenty-five years ago, just before another graduation, when, with its candles lighted, it became the center of attraction. It is a striking and touching contrast.

There is a lot of old tradition attached to this chandelier. According to a book on Davidson College written by Miss Cornelia Shaw, the librarian, the chandelier was put up on June 17, 1854. It was of French glass and was imported from France; along with it were imported many tales as to its origin. Again quoting from Miss Shaw's book, we find this idea: “The chandelier in the Philanthropic Hall is a duplicate of the original under which Napoleon III was married to Eugenia de Montijo, Countess de Teba in 1853. It is a French production and was exhibited at the royal palace in London in 1851, and afterwards sent to New York and exhibited there in the crystal palace in 1853. The latter exhibition was a financial failure and to pay its financial obligations a number of the exhibits were sold, and among them this chandelier. It was purchased by Mr. William White of Sumter, S. C., and presented to the Philanthropic Society of Davidson College during the latter part of 1853.”

It was the above article which probably gave rise to the belief on the parts of many students and members of the faculty that Napoleon was married under that chandelier.

When physical education was made non-compulsory at the University of California, enrollment in the department jumped 100%.

The typical Harvard man is “an indifferent old maggot with a funny accent,” says the university's alumni bulletin.

Cars For Rent

GULF GAS AND OIL

M. P. Henderson

Among the GREEKS

BETA THETA PI—Brother Will Coffin spent last weekend in Asheville. There was a feed last Sunday night.

PI KAPPA ALPHA—The election of officers took place at the last meeting. Walter Dickson, President; Martin Lafferty, Vice-President; and Bob Anders, Treasurer, will be installed in their new offices in two weeks. Nine pledges are expected to be initiated Thursday night. The brothers will entertain the pledges at a party Saturday night. Doug Neal spent the weekend in Burlington. Brother “Sky” Cline attended a dance at W.C. U. N.C last Saturday night. KAPPA ALPHA will be held from and will include a model attended the Formal initiation Tuesday to Thursday initiation with Bobby Abel as the model. There was a feed Sunday night. PI KAPPA PHI—Pledges were formally initiated Friday night. They were R. H. Burgess, Sumter, S.C.; Paul Cooper, Roanoke, Va.; Gish, Bluefield, W. Va.; S. M. R. E. Howie, Dawson, Harlan, Washington; G. K. Hemphill, Marion; Mofroc; K. V. Lé Inaba, ABE Lindsey, R. J. Terry, Leeland, Miss.; and Re] Powill, Batesburg, S.C. Brothers Peters, Willis, and Arrow- Mid-Winters at Presbyterian College. SIGMA ALPHA EPSILON—Dr. Smith attended the Hood, Dr. Cumming, Prof. Lilly, and Prof. Schank were entertained at a feed over the weekend. Many of the brothers spent the weekend off-campus; Brother Kel went to Greenville, Mills, Winthrop College, at Rock Hill; Brothers Brown and Marchant, Greensboro; Brothers Mickley, Eve, and Mathis attended the dances at Sweetbriar; and Brothers Armfield, Nicholson, and Williams were present at the Mid-Winters of Presbyterian College. KAPPA SIGMA—The newly elected officers took over their duties at the last meeting. Informal initiation of freshmen started Monday night. PHI GAMMA DELTA—Russell Patterson and Harvey Glass attended a sectional conference in Richmond, Va., leaving Thursday and returning Monday. Brothers Hal Arthur Cooke, Gene Ganier, Overton, and Sch- spent the weekend in Greensboro. Brother Ernest Lever '34, New York University and recently stationed at Pensacola in the U.S. Naval Air Force, spent the weekend here. PHI DELTA THETA—Dr. C. K. Brown attended the banquet following the formal initiation of pledges O. H. Bell, Fulton, Mo.; W. A. Boyd, Atlanta, Ga.; J. D. Chalk, Rockingham; J. R. Harman, Jacksonville, Fla.; R. C. Lyerly, Granite Quarry; M. H. Lillard, Jacksonville, Fla.; W. H. Marquess, Decatur, Ga.; H. W. Rainey, Asheville; and J. M. Reinhardt, Lincolnton. SIGMA PHI EPSILON—Brother William Phillips, Grand Secretary, visited the North Carolina Epsilon Chapter here last Thursday. Brother Jim Knox returned from his weekend tour of South Carolina and seems well pleased with the results.

A THOUSAND CHILLS! A THOUSAND CHILLS ... on bleak old Baldpate Mountain. SEVEN KEYS TO BALDPATE with GENE RAYMOND and Margaret Callahan.

CITIZENS HERE WILL BE AIDED IN WORK WITH INCOME TAX
Government Official Requests Davidsonian to Publish Tax Information
MARCH 15 IS DEADLINE
Free Assistance will Be Rendered on February 28

The Davidsonian has been asked by Mr. Robertson, collector of internal revenue for North Carolina, to publish information regarding the collection of income taxes for this state in Davidson. A Deputy Collector of internal revenue will be at Davidson on February 28 to assist in preparing income tax returns. There will be no charge for this assistance. This matter should be given immediate attention by all taxpayers, because there is a penalty for non-payment after the time specified by the government. A person whose net income is $1,000 or over or whose gross income is $5,000 or over and who is single (or if married and not living with husband or wife) is required to file an income tax return. A person who is married and living with husband or wife and whose net income is $2,500 or over or whose gross income is $5,000 or over is also required to file income tax returns. The returns for the year 1935 should be filed not later than March 15, 1935, with the Collector of Internal Revenue for the district in which you reside, or have your principal place of business. There is a penalty of not more than $10,000 or imprisonment for not more than one year, or both, for willful failure to make income tax returns by March 15. There is an additional penalty of from 5 to 25 percent of the amount of the tax. Form 1040A is to be used if the net income does not exceed $5,000 and is derived chiefly from salaries and wages. Form 1040 is to be used for net incomes of more than $5,000, or net incomes regardless of amount if derived from a profession or business, including farming, or from rents or sale of property. All income tax returns must be filed in duplicate.

RARE PICTURE PRESENTED TO UNIVERSITY OF S. C.
What is believed to be the only picture in existence of the famous Radical Legislature of South Carolina has been presented to the department of history at the University of South Carolina. The Radical Legislature was composed of both White and negro members and ruled briefly during the post-Civil War period.

QUALITY at LOW COST
M. H. GOODRUM & CO.
HARDWARE DRY GOODS RADIOS

HELD OVER Through Thursday
“Magnificent Obsession”
Irene Dunne—Robert Taylor

Friday & Saturday
On the Stage!
FRED KIRBY

On Stage—Mon.-Tue.
MAJOR BOWES AMATEURS In Person
On the Screen
“THE LONE WOLF RETURNS" with Melvyn Douglas and Gail Patrick

Wed. Thur. Fri.
KARLOFF Bela Lugosi—in “INVISIBLE RAY”

Saturday On the Screen!
Johnny Mack Brown in “Valley of Lawless”

HOME OF SHOW VALUE!

Monday & Tuesday
“Too frank to be read!” or WAS SOCIETY ASHAMED?
“THE LAST MILE”

Wed. & Thurs.
Kathleen Norris’ “NAVY WIFE” with Claire Trevor

STATE Freshman Names “Nameless Cartoon” For Observer
The Observer published an announcement Sunday morning, February 9, that B. I. Brown, of Davidson, N.C., had won the first prize of five dollars in a weekly contest sponsored by the newspaper which consists of submitting a title for a nameless cartoon. After investigation, P. L. Brown turned out to be none other than “Boose” Brown, flashy backfield man on the freshman football team last fall. In an exclusive interview for The Davidsonian, Brown said that he and his roommate, Jim Moore, had been working together on the contests each week for some time and had received several honorable mentions. When asked to explain his success in the contest, he blushed and said modestly that it was “just a break.” He stated that he planned to buy a subscription to The Charlotte Observer until the end of the school year with the prize money and pay up all his debts.

LUCKIES CENTER LEAVES
LUCKIES SCIENTIFIC BLENDING
LUCKIES MOISTURE CONTROL

Going to town with Luckies
A LIGHT SMOKE of rich, ripe-bodied tobacco

Over a period of years, certain basic advances have been made in the selection and treatment of cigarette tobaccos for Lucky Strike Cigarettes. They include preliminary analyses of the tobacco selected; use of center leaves; the higher heat treatment of the tobacco (“Toasting”); consideration of acid-alkaline balance, with consequent definite improvement in flavor; and controlled uniformity in the finished product. All these combine to produce a superior cigarette—a modern cigarette, a cigarette made of rich, ripe-bodied tobaccos—A Light Smoke.

Copyright 1934, The American Tobacco Company

Luckies are less acid
Recent chemical tests show that other popular brands have an excess of acidity over Lucky Strike of from 53% to 100%.

Excess of Acidity of Other Popular Brands Over Lucky Strike Cigarettes
BRAND A 53%
BRAND B 60%
BRAND C 63%
BRAND D 100%

RESULTS VERIFIED BY INDEPENDENT CHEMICAL LABORATORIES AND RESEARCH GROUPS

A LIGHT SMOKE OF RICH, RIPE-BODIED TOBACCO
“IT'S TOASTED”