THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 12, 1936

By Mokey Fai

HONOR ROLL
JoJo McNabb, Harmon Woodward, and Martin Barnett Chosen as Interfraternity Stars.

SPORTS AFIELD HONOR ROLL
Maurice Peabody, John Armstrong Picked as Varsity Basketball Stars
By Bill Archer.

By HARRY KUYKENDALL

Have you noticed that new forward, Bill Keatc and Bill Kiesewetter? Meanwhile, let’s dig up a few facts which bring this metamorphosis for the benefit of any doubtful ones. After previously losing to Lenoir Rhyne 51-31, the ‘Cats came back last week with a 27-19 victory after holding the visitors scoreless in the first half. 

In the last week of fighting Rhyne, Wake Forest, and State, this scrappy Wildcat quint has scored 93 points out of the season’s total of 303, approximately one-third of the points this season. Scores have been closer, the team has been working harder, and the new combination is highlighting several men who haven't had a chance to shine until now. Johnny Armstrong, a transfer from Belmont, has come through in fine style at guard and is improving steadily. Having more than average height, the local speedster has garnered a total of 20 points in the last three games and shows promise of increasing this total considerably this week. Johnny has replaced captain Maurice Peabody, last season's guard who was moved to forward. Laird has been using him at guard on the defense and at forward on the offense. Peabody stepped up his lead in the Wildcats scoring this week to 8 points. In the ten games so far this season, Maurice has tallied 19 field goals and 22 fouls for a grand total of 60 points. Bill Hancock, elongated center, is runner-up with 52 points. Ken Knorr has 51, Bill Kiesewetter 40, Bill Quick 32, Johnny Armstrong 31, Wade Barrow 19, Fred Cathey 6, Herman Yearwood 6, Lawrence Reid 3, Albert Cumbie 2, and Jimmy Reinhardt 1. Several men who haven't seen action yet, but have been out every day taking the hard knocks deserve their bit of credit too. Possibly in the next year or so they will be in on some of those prospective “Wildcat victories.” Joe Johnson, Lee Bankhead, Dan Iverson, and Elwood Moyer are the ones we have in mind.

Only two of the four undefeated Wildcat wrestlers escaped defeat last Friday night against V. P. I. when the ‘Cats suffered a crushing 28-8 defeat. Parker and McFadyen both fell from the throne of the undefeated. Captain Jim Blackwelder, wrestling in the 175 and unlimited classes, came through with their third straight win of the season as they defeated the Gobblers for the only points of the meet. Ned Iverson, Kitten forward and center, continues his 12-point game average. In ten games this season, six of which the Kittens have won, Iverson has tallied 53 field goals and 16 fouls for a total of 12.2 points average per game. Johnson, forward, is trailing Iverson with 70 points, 29 field goals, and 17 fouls. Tice with 36 points, is third and he in turn is followed by Boyd with 32, Sloan with 30, and Lee with 27.

Leroy Hodgin, unlimited and 175-pound class, gained the 175 match by a head time over Bell of Tech and pinned Gooden in 7:49. Summary: (118), Pittman, Tech, won by a fall in 2:48; Tech, defeated Hancock by a fall in 6:35; Captain Blackwelder, Davidson, defeated McFadyen by a fall in 5:24. (175), Blackwelder, Davidson, defeated Bell by a fall in 7:49; Hodgin, Davidson, pinned Gooden by a fall in 7:49. Coach Unger stated after the match that he is “particularly pleased with the improved showing of the team in spite of the defeat at the hands of the Gobblers. Coach Tillson has built up a very strong outfit which has a very unusual record. The defeat will do us good,” stated Coach Unger, “because I was very much discouraged by the attitude which some of the boys have been taking recently. We need a good deal more spirit if we expect to go very far.”

In commenting on the coming match with the strong Appalachian State team, Coach Unger said, “There will be a slight shake-up in the line-up for the next match. I expect to use Alex Brown in the unlimited class and shift Hodgin back to the 175-pound class, and I will go back to the regular line-up.” The team will meet the Appalachian State Teachers’ College there next Saturday night at 7:00 P.M.

Midshipmen Described As Main Grid Threats

It shows that intercollegiate football practice may be out of Doc Newton and McEver, but we think the two coaches are appreciating the enforced lay-offs. They realize only too well the Herculean task which lies before them. That team can complete the schedule facing next year's edition of the Wildcats. Playing such teams as Carolina, State, Centre, and Wake Forest without sufficient “breathers” in which to rest injured men is a terrific strain on a team possessing such a small number of good reserves. The high point of the season in regard to intersectional conflicts will be the invasion of Annapolis. Playing a high class of teams, a win or a close game with the Midshipmen would give Davidson considerable national recognition. Centre is another Presbyterian college similar to Davidson. Its football team came into the limelight several years ago when the “Praying Colonels” defeated Harvard and several other major teams, and placed two men on the All-American team selected by Walter Camp. These boys from the “Blue Grass” section of Kentucky always play a clean, scrappy type of game that is especially thrilling to the spectator. This should be one of the best games of the year. The prowess of other teams such as Duke, Carolina, State, and Wake Forest is already known to the fans.

UNDEFEATED
Pictured here is the undefeated Appalachian State Wrestling team, a leading contender for both state and southern college mat honors.

Boxing Crown Is Sought By Fist Slingers
Below are instructions for pugilistic aspirants.

Preparations for the intramural boxing tournament have been going on for over a week. Classes of men in this manly art are being held daily in the old gymnasium under the direction of Paul Pittman, John Lee, and Bob Blue. A bag has been erected for fighters and the following instructions have been posted for them:

The Boxing Position
1. Place your left foot in advance of your right from 10 to 20 inches according to your height and length of reach. It is necessary to maintain perfect balance at all times.
2. The left foot should be placed flat on the floor, pointing straight out in front to your opponent's left.
3. The right foot should be placed directly behind the heel of the left, pointing out at an angle varying from 60 to 70 degrees. The heel should be raised from the floor at least an inch, giving an opportunity to move quickly in any direction on the ball of the foot.
4. The left hand should be held toward the adversary’s chin, in an easy position with the palm turned upward so that the knuckles will take full effect. The left arm should be worked freely. The right hand is best placed across the body, the elbow covering the short ribs, forearm ready to protect the pit of the stomach, the fist being placed over the heart. The right shoulder is usually depressed several inches.

Clenching the Fist
1. In closing the fist, bring the tips of the fingers well over the palm, with the thumb turned inside and over the first joint of the index finger, which will prevent the tip of the thumb from coming in contact with the opponent's guard.
2. NEVER, by any chance, permit your thumb to hold a position in which its tip protrudes beyond the knuckles.

The Most Important Boxing Blows
1. Straight left jab to the face.
2. Straight right lead to face or body.
3. Left hook.
4. The left-hand lead to the face and counter to the body.
5. Right-hand lead to the body and countering with a straight left to the face.
6. Crouching and sending a left straight to the body.
7. Right-hand cross-counter to the head.

Fijis Lose to Kappa Sigmas
Sig-Eps, KAs, and Pi Kappa Phis Advance in Fraternity Competition

The current inter-fraternity basketball competition opened last week with the Kappa Sigs, SPE’s, KA’s, and Pi Kappa Phis advancing by virtue of victories in their opening games. The Kappa Sigs eked out a close 16-15 victory over the Phi Gams. This game was the second to be played between the two teams. The Phi Gams won the initial encounter in an extra-period tilt, but a second game was necessary because the Phi Gams used an ineligible man. The second game was also tied at the end of the regulation time, but the Kappa Sigs tallied one more point in this period than their opponents. Morrison, Loftin, and Lindsay led the victors, while McNabb and Elmore were outstanding for the Phi Gams. In another thrilling game, the KA's staved off a closing rush of the SAE’s to win 10-9.lead at the start of the game, only to fall seven points behind at the half. In the second half, they pulled up on even terms, but the victors overcame a one-point lead in the last minute of play to win by one point. Edgerton and Willingham led the loser’s scorers, while Hutaff and Tom Downie were the KA stars. The SPE’s swung into mid-season form to trounce the Betas in a decisive fashion, 27-15. The contest was never in doubt from the opening whistle, and the victors systematically added point after point to their advantage. Barnett, Gilks, Jenkins, and Rader led the scoring for the SPE’s, while Benfield and Mipton dominated the loser’s play. The Pi Kappa Phis held the Phi Delts to nine points and caged the necessary points to win, 15-9. This affray was a rough-and-tough struggle, and play was delayed by fouls. Close guarding led to this number of fouls and kept the scores very low. Harmon Woodward and Dunnie Covington were high-scorers for the winners, while numerous fouls hindered Marquess and Tonissen, who were outstanding in the Phi Delt’s play.

8. Blocking right swing and sending right uppercut to the chin.
9. Blocking a left swing and standing ready to send a left uppercut to the chin.

“Pete” Whittle has announced that the preliminary bouts will be fought on February 27 and the finals on the following day. Several men are entered in each class and from all appearances, there will be some stiff competition. If there are any men not attending the classes who would like to do so, it is not too late to begin.

New Plates
Plain Cards
Paneled Cards
LOFTIN-18 GA. VISITING CARDS
100 Engraved Cards Including 309 Watts members of the student body.

Duke Coaches Are Selected For Coming Year
Newton, McEver, Laird, Whittle, Chapman, and Harrison Make Up Staff

The selection of the coaching staff for the coming year was completed last Saturday with the announcement that Heath “Pete” Whittle, Chester Chapman, and Parks had been re-elected to their coaching posts. “Pete” Whittle will be head track coach and director of intramural athletics. “Chet” Chapman will be varsity line coach, freshman basketball coach, and wrestling coach, replacing Doc Unger who resigned recently. Harrison will probably coach the “B” squad during the football season. “Doc” Newton and Gene McEver, varsity football coaches, and varsity basketball and baseball coach “Red” Laird were elected to continue their duties last month. It was at this time that Doc Unger’s resignation was accepted.

Tennis Team To Start Schedule On March 23

The Davidson College Tennis Team will begin its activity for this year on March 23 with a match with Wofford here at Davidson. The matches will be away from Davidson. They are with Presbyterian College in Clinton on March 25, Georgia Tech in Atlanta on March 27, Emory University in Atlanta on March 28, the University of Florida at Gainesville on March 30, Rollins College in Winter Park on the last day of March, and with the University of South Carolina at Columbia on April 2. After this trip, there are four home matches with Elon College, North Carolina, Miami University, and Erskine College on April 7, 10, 11, and 16 respectively. A trip through this state includes matches with State at Raleigh on April 20, Duke at Durham on April 21, and the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill on April 22. Three tentative matches are with the University of Virginia at Charlottesville, Richmond University at Richmond, and William and Mary at Williamsburg on April 4, 5, and 6.

The Junior Managers

VALENTINES OF EVERY SORT
LIGHT BULBS
SOUTHERN 5 & 10c STORE

Cats Defeat Bears In Spirited Court Battle
Frosh Cagers Nosed Out In Two Battles
Kittens Look Better in State Game Than in Tilt Against Deacons

The past weekend saw the Davidson Wildkittens go down in glorious defeat on two consecutive occasions. Friday night the Frosh basketball squad lost to the Wake Forest freshmen by a score of 33 to 26. This score is exactly six points nearer winning than the press had it, who reported the score as 35 to 24. On Saturday night the Kittens dropped their second game to the N. C. State Freshmen with a score of 45 to 41. The Deacons, led by their flashing forward Waller, led the game the whole way but not without a hard fight. Friday night Johnson and Tice were outstanding. Johnson with ten points and Iverson with eight points led the Davidson team as high scorers, while Waller of Wake Forest topped the heap with a total of 13 points to his credit. At the half, Wake Forest was in the lead by a score of 16 to 13 and held their lead during a hectic second half which saw the score move up to 33 to 26 before the game ended. With a total of 15 field goals as compared to nine for Davidson, Wake Forest proved that it had the eye for the basket that is necessary to a winning team.

Attesting to the real scrap that was the N. C. State Freshmen basketeers against the Davidson Freshmen is the two extra periods that were attached to the end of the regulation game. The regular game ended with the teams tied at 37 all. For another five minutes, they battled for the break that would spell victory and with State in the lead and only 15 seconds left to play, Johnson took a pass from Iverson and dribbled into a nice one-hand shot which tied the score at 40 all just as the whistle blew. In the next five-minute period, State made five points to our one and the game ended 45 to 41 in favor of the State Freshmen. Saturday night Iverson was playing a better game than he did the preceding night and was high scorer for the Davidson Frosh with a total of 12 points to his credit and Johnson and Tice followed with nine points each. Tuesday night the Frosh will meet Belmont Abbey here and on Friday night they meet the Catawba “B” team at Salisbury. They play another home game against Darlington High School on Saturday afternoon.

Martin Barnett, Carlyle Lewis, George Hornbeck, and Jake Morrow are Howard Covington, Charles Crane, Lloyd Feuchtenberger, Bisco Howell, and George Kuykendall.

Ohio State’s champ football team brought in $330,000 at home games this year.

Close Margins Determine Victories For State and Wake Forest
Basket Accuracy Greatest Factor in Lenoir Rhyne Victory

The Davidson basketball Wildcats snapped out of their recent bad form to put on three very creditable exhibitions last week and demonstrated that there is still plenty of spirit and courage left in Coach Laird’s machine. On Wednesday night the team broke its long losing streak with a clear-cut 27 to 19 victory over Lenoir Rhyne and continued its good play on a road trip in losing close weekend games to two strong Big Five rivals, to Wake Forest, 37-34, and to State, 43-32.

Davidson Lenoir Rhyne
Peabody 2 4 8 R. McSwain 0 2 2
Kiesewetter 1 0 2 Ward 2 0 4
Knorr 1 1 3 Deal 1 0 2
Hancock 1 0 2 Tucker 0 1 1
Cathey 0 0 0 C. McSwain 0 0 0
Armstrong 4 2 10 Lanier 0 0 0
Quick 1 0 2 Amendola 1 1 3
Reid 0 0 0 Little 0 1 1
Sanders 0 1 1
7 13 27 5 9 19

The Wildcats clawed the Bears from stem to stern in getting revenge for the 51-31 pasting suffered at Hickory before Christmas. The Davidson guarding was so close that Lenoir Rhyne was unable to score during the first half, trailing 10-0 at intermission. Armstrong and Peabody led the way as the Wildcats preserved most of their margin during the last half in the face of a rejuvenated Lenoir Rhyne attack which yielded nineteen points. The game was wildly played, with thirty fouls being called on the two teams, but neither side was able to profit greatly from its foul shots. Lenoir Rhyne appeared over-confident, but Wildcat spirit and basket accuracy seemed to be the greatest contributing factors to the victory, and the Bears missed their shots because they could not get in position for them.

Davidson Wake Forest
Peabody 3 1 7 Brunt 1 3 5
Knorr 0 2 2 Morris 8 2 18
Kiesewetter 2 3 7 Patton 2 0 4
Barrow 0 0 0 Byrd 2 0 4
Hancock 4 1 9 Mauney 2 0 4
Cathey 0 1 1 Hatcher 0 0 0
Quick 2 2 6 Barnes 0 0 0
Armstrong 0 2 2
Reid 0 0 0
11 12 34 16 5 37

Wake Forest’s Demon Deacons shoved the Davidsons into the Big Five cellar with a 37-34 victory over them Friday night, but it was not until after a terrific fight. Davidson, trailing at the half by 18-14, rallied to tie the count at 33-33 with only a minute and a half to go, but Morris, the big gun for the Deacons throughout the evening, and Byrd each dropped in a field goal in the last 45 seconds to best the Wildcats’ parting thrust, a free throw by Cathey. Nineteen fouls were called on Wake Forest, with the Wildcats cashing in on twelve of these opportunities. Bill Hancock had nine points and Peabody and Kieswetter seven each, while Morris scored 18, almost half of his team’s total.

Davidson N. C. State
Peabody 4 1 9 Aycock 2 2 6
Kieswetter 0 0 0 Houtt 1 0 2
Knorr 0 1 1 Flythe 3 1 7
Hancock 1 2 4 Dalrymple 4 3 11
Armstrong 3 2 8 Dixon 3 0 6
Quick 2 0 4 Womble 1 0 2
13 6 32 17 9 43

(Continued on Page 5)

NO MATTER WHAT TYPE OF UNDERWEAR YOU PREFER—YOU’LL FIND IT MADE BY
Quality is Built Into Every Hanes Garment
On Sale at All Good Stores at Popular Prices