Page Six THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 1936

Literary Societies Plan To Hold Joint Debate
To Be Held In Eumehean Hall On Tuesday Night, November 17th
DADE, ALLEN SELECTED
Philanthropic Team to Be Named Next Meeting

It was announced today by James Gailey and Robert Stewart, respective presidents of the Philanthropic and Eumenean Literary Societies, that
plans were being made to stage a joint debate between the two literary organizations. The subject is "Resolved that freshmen
should be given the right to vote in all matters at Davidson College, equal to one upperclass vote."

PLANS ISSUED FOR SATURDAY
Band Concert and Luncheon Planned to Entertain Alumni
NEEDS ARE STRESSED
Carolina-Davidson Game to Be Main Feature

The alumni office last November sent out the issue of the College Bulletin. Five hundred were concerned with the College.
Homecoming needs equipment. The day of celebration will include a band concert and luncheon to entertain alumni. The Carolina-Davidson game
will be the main feature.

Intermural Matmen Receive Instruction from Wrestling Captain
Contestants in the Intramural wrestling practice are receiving instruction every day after noon.

PRE-MEDICAL GROUP (Continued from Page 3)
Higgins, Dickson, Jr., William H., F. Horine, Jr., C. Worth, James Sprunt, and Thurston. Alpha Epsilon Delta, the pre-medical fraternity,
was established at Davidson last year. Present members include Dr. MacConnell and Dr. Scott C. Lyon of the College faculty,
Hervey Ross, Ken Scott, and Bill Templeton. The objects of the fraternity are to bridge the gap between the spirit
of pre-medical and the school of medicine. This is being accomplished by lectures from prominent figures from surrounding cities, who
are very much interested in this organization, and by medical movies. Plans are being made to make a field trip
to one of the leading Charlotte hospitals so that medical conditions can be observed at first hand. A large percentage
of the medical lectures will be open to the public in an effort to interest other students in the field
of medicine.

ROOSEVELT IS LEADER (Continued from Page 1)
Altogether they polled 6,000 out of over 80,000 cast. Norman Thomas carried no states, but the candidates by a little.
Thomas got his largest number of votes in Massachusetts, while Browder and Lemke received theirs in New York.

Davidson College Symphony Band will play in Chambers building. The day will include a hall luncheon. Alumni are reminded of
the pressing needs for equipment. The day of celebration will offer a chance to address these needs.

CUMMING WILL SERVE AS JOURNAL ADVISER
Expert Consultant On Romances and Hagiography

William P. Cumming of the Department of English has been asked to serve as an expert consultant in English literature
for the Modern Language Association of America. Dr. Cumming will pass on papers submitted to the Publications of the Modern
Language Association, particularly those relating to the field of medieval literature and hagiography. Cumming has written several articles on subjects
in this field, which have been published in various magazines. He has discovered manuscripts in English and French libraries which
throw new light on medieval writers, including Wycliffe, the first translator of the Bible into English. His editions of other
manuscripts have been published by the Early English Text Society. Last year he compiled an edition of Middle English articles
in Publications of the Modern Language Association, which is soon to be published by that journal.

MEDICAL FRAT PLEDGES DAVIDSON ALUMNI
Nu Sigma Nu, medical fraternity, pledged three Davidson College alumni during the Tulane University rushing season. Those men were: Joseph
Johnston, of Barium Springs; Harvey McConnell, of Chester, S.C.; and Prosser Morrow, of West Point, Ga. All three were members
of Alpha Epsilon Delta, a pre-medical fraternity.

DAVIDSON BAND TO SERENADE HOMECOMERS
The Davidson College Band, pictured above, will play two concerts during the Homecoming celebration on Saturday—one in the Chambers auditorium
at 11 in the morning, and another at 2 P.M., preceding the Davidson-Carolina football game at the stadium. Several formations
are planned for the period between halves.

UNDERGRADS CONDUCT SERVICES ON SUNDAY
Deputations Lead Meetings In Three Towns

Three different services were conducted out of town last Sunday by students of Davidson College on Y.M.C.A. deputations. Mr. Bixler
and Dick Gammon were at Hopewell Baptist Church, where they gave a very interesting and instructive program. They conducted the
B.Y.P.U. Sidney Crane, a freshman who is the son of a Presbyterian missionary to Africa, had charge of the evening
service at Barium Springs Orphanage. He gave a talk on the work that is now going on in the Congo,
and told of some experiences there. His program was greatly enjoyed and appreciated, since his information was first-hand. Bob Stewart,
Harper Beall, Stuart Oglesby, and Mr. Warren Babcock were in charge of the Vesper service at the First Presbyterian Church
in Concord. Oglesby and Beall sang a duet, after which Stewart gave an inspirational talk. His subject, “Our Present Spiritual
Famine,” was a very timely one, and he delivered it exceptionally well. Following the talk, Harper Beall sang a baritone
solo, accompanied at the piano by Mr. Babcock.

DAVIDSON THEATER
Wed. Nov. 4
ALL AMERICAN CHUMP
As a perfect chump, Stuart Erwin adds hilarity to this lively little story filled with punchy lines and comical situations.
A human adding machine, Erwin is annexed by a bankrupt carnival group. Robert Armstrong, Edmund Gwenn, and Betty Furness are
thrust into a bridge tournament, where Erwin wins the tournament, the girl, and four cows. A laugh a minute.

Thurs.-Fri, Nov. 5-6
LADIES IN LOVE
With plenty of feminine beauty, Janet Gaynor, Loretta Young, Constance Bennett, and Simone Simon. Male supporting cast includes Don Ameche,
Paul Lukas, Tyrone Power, Jr., and Alan Mowbray.

Sat. Nov. 7
ROSE BOWL
It sounds like a football picture, but it’s actually about a father talking his daughter out of marriage.

CAROLINA TILT RENEWS FEUD
Tar Heels Hold Large Margin of Wins Against Davidson Football Teams

An ancient gridiron feud will be continued on Richardson Field Saturday afternoon when the mighty Tar Heels of North Carolina
invade the lair of the Wildcats in a Homecoming Day classic. Football was introduced into North Carolina by these two
teams way back in 1897, and in the 39 years that have ensued since that memorable date, they have met
on the field of battle 34 times. The Tar Heels have emerged victorious in 25 of these contests, 5 have
gone to the Wildcats, and the other 4 were scoreless ties. Still fresh in the minds of many is that
struggle that took place last year when Carolina came to Davidson expecting a breather and an easy victory, and found
instead a powerful aggregation of fighting Wildcats that refused to submit until the final whistle when they walked off the
field, beaten but untamed. In 1934, 10,000 people sat in the rain and watched the Tar Heels, led by All-American
Barclay, down the Cats 12-2. The 1933 game also went to Carolina as she pushed a tally in the final
period.The year before, the Wildcats held a much heavier team to a 12-0 score. In 1931, a far superior George
over a Cats Carolina crew administered a 20-0 licking to their opponents. But there is a different yarn to spin
about their 1930 meeting. In that year, Davidson, a truly great team, defied all the dope buckets and rose to
magnificent heights to defeat a dazed and helpless bunch of Tar Heels. The score did not show the superiority that
the Cats held throughout the contest. The Cats also won in 1910 and 1926 when they were State champs. The
other Davidson victories took place in 1918 and 1920. Summing up the scores of games shows that Carolina has amassed
a total of 395 points and Davidson has 74. But you better come and see for yourself.

Mon.-Tues. Nov. 9-10. PEPPER A Jane Withers’ laugh riot. She vamps Irvin S. Cobb into helping a poor widow, pays
him back by...

BUSINESS MEETING OF LOCAL HI-Y CLUB HELD
Club Discusses Business and Decides to Use Church Attendance Contest

Following last week's ritual, the Davidson Hi-Y business club held its annual meeting. This meeting is held every year, following
the formal initiation of new members, to present to them this phase of Hi-Y work, and to obtain from the
new members their views on different branches of work for the coming year. The club decided to continue the “Church-going”
contest, which has become an annual feature of the organization. The losing side must give the winning side a party,
following the conclusion of the contest on December 14th. Edward Erwin and Spencer Blackwelder, both new members, were selected as
captains of the two teams. The rules of last year's contest were discussed and kept intact. Edward Shewmake and Edwin
Jackson were given charge of the program for the next week. Various other features were discussed.

MAMMOTH CIRCUS IS LURE FOR STUDENTS
Bringing a large and varied selection of pachyderms, more clowns than you could watch, daring young girls on the flying
trapeze, and other spectacular attractions, Ringling Bros and Barnum and Bailey’s combined circus rolled into Queen City last Monday morning.
Swarming into Charlotte from a comparatively dull campus, Davidson students crunched peanuts, fed the elephants, roared at the clowns (when
they were funny), crowded into sideshows, and twisted necks in vain attempts to take in all of the breath-taking and
razzle-dazzle events in the seven rings of the mammoth show. The colorful Durbar pageant gave a fitting premier to both
afternoon and night shows. A huge crowd filled the lot all day, starting with some ardent fans who watched the
tents go up and ending only when the show folded up its tents and fled into the night.

HOOD TALKS ON MIND DISEASES
Psychology Professor Lectures to Students at Queens College October 29

Dr. Frazier Hood, Davidson professor of psychology, spoke on Mental Hygiene in one of a series of lectures to the
students of Queens-Chicora College in Charlotte, N.C. On Friday and Saturday, October 29 and 30, Dr. Hood attended the South
Piedmont Regional convention of the North Carolina Education Association, where he was head of the higher education section of the
group. In his talk, Dr. Hood first defined mental hygiene. “Just as the body health improves if the laws of
sanitation are observed, so does the mind.” He explained that the dirt of the mind is not moral filth, but
mental disorders, of which there are three principal kinds. The first kind of disorder is “flight into illness,” or a
person's imagining himself to be sick when he does not want to do something he must do. The second disorder,
Dr. Hood stated, is the tendency people have to give the wrong motive for their conduct. Becoming too deeply interested
in one's self to the exclusion of social obligations and responsibilities constitutes the third disorder. “A really healthy and hygienic
mind,” said Dr. Hood, “never allows itself to become bored. Even the worst bores can become interesting if studied subjectively
and psychologically.” The remedy for these mental disorders is to become interested in something else besides oneself.

PEP MASTER VOGLER PROMISES SURPRISES
Old Custom to Be Revived at Carolina Game to Match New Tumbling

FIRE TO WARM SPIRIT
Bonfire in Frosh Field Will Feature Pep Meet

Cheerleader Gene Vogler’s sleeves are fairly bursting out at the cuffs with the things he has up them for the
homecoming Carolina game Saturday and the mammoth pep meeting of unprecedented proportions that will precede it Friday. Firstly, the cheering
will start promptly at seven o'clock in the gym, where speeches by members of the coaching staff and the team
will feature in addition to the usual vocal excesses as provoked by the upside-down activities of Vogler and his gyrationists.
Secondly, from the gym to freshman field will wind and wriggle the crookedest shirt-tail parade since they began sewing tails
on shirts. The freshmen will have another lesson in non-Euclidean geometry to the effect that a straight line is not
always the shortest distance between two points. Thirdly, harking back to the good old days when they used to burn
the “bushes” to celebrate football victories over Carolina, there will be a bonfire flaming to the sky in the middle
of frosh field about which Davidson Indians will work up their thirst for Tar Heel blood.

PROVERBS
A bird in the hand is definitely bad manners.
Success has turned more heads than halitosis.
A fool and his money are some party.

Dr. Hood took part in the fourteenth annual South Piedmont District Teachers’ Association convention, leading a discussion on the question,
“Have We Made Any Progress in Public Education in North Carolina in the past hundred years?”

DAVIS Barber Shop
SERVICE WITH INDIVIDUAL ATTENTION
Representatives:
LEM KORNEGAY, 202 Watts
GEORGE MATTHIS, 19 Georgia

Send Her FLOWERS For the Dances
Ratcliffe’s Friendly Florist

FRIENDLY SHOE STORE
137-S Tryon Street
Welcome Davidson
Fortune $4 - $5
Charlotte, N.C.

WELCOME ALUMNI
NORTON’S BARBER SHOP
Look Good For the Week-End
THACKER’S, INC.
118 South Tryon Street
Charlotte, N.C.

Welcome Davidson Alumni...
“A GOOD PLACE TO EAT”

Book combinations will make you just-about-purr with content when they come to you in hot pots. Look into this, next
time you're here. The Tavern of HOTEL CHARLOTTE

HART-SCHAFFNER MARX FINE CLOTHES
J.O. JONES Inc.
Exclusive Agents For Charlotte
