Page Two The Davidsonian

Founded By the Class of 1915

1936 Member 1937 Associated Collegiate Press

Distributors of Collegiate Digest

Published Weekly "For a Better Davidson"

Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON AVE. New York, N.Y.
CHICAGO BOSTON SAN FRANCISCO
LOS ANGELES PORTLAND SEATTLE

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879.

JIM MORTON Editor
R. H. ROBINSON Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
Owen Cooke Managing Editor
Sam Cothran Managing Editor
Euclid Fant Managing Editor
Hector McGeachy Managing Editor
Dick Vawles Editor
Yates Faison Editor
Harry Kuykendall Editor
Howell Overton Editor
Harold Sugg Editor
Daymond Turner Associate Editor
John Winn Associate Editor
Sam Ryburn Art Editor
Fitz Dade Copy Reader

BUSINESS STAFF
Wilson Lowrance Circulation Manager
Ralph Chandler Circulation Manager
Charles Collection Manager
J. M. Hall Advertising Manager
J. J. Win Business Manager

The friends thou hast, and their adoption tried,
Grapple them to thy soul with hooks of steel.
—Shakespeare.

AMENDMENT
The proposed amendment on the first page seems to be a logical conclusion to a somewhat unsettled situation. The Freshman
Advisor should be selected early enough to permit some constructive work. He could do this work at the beginning of
school, when his assistance is needed most. Abolishing the Court of Control eliminates the idea of two factions in the
Student Body. The Freshman Committee would act, in regard to discipline of first-year students, similar to our present Student Council
in its relation to the Student Body.

FINALS FOR '37
If the Centennial Pageant materializes, most of the Student Body will have to remain on campus to participate in the
play. Therefore, we should celebrate the occasion by having the long-forgotten "Final Dances" for Davidson.

WE CONGRATULATE
Professor Foreman for an arresting and at the same time inspiring sermon.
The Sophomore Class for a successful weekend.
Those members of the Davidson football team who secured berths on the All-State eleven.
Fred Smith for the excellent publicity given Davidson this year.
Our coaching staff for what sports writers acclaim as the best job in the Southern Conference.
King Edward VIII for furnishing the biggest news story of the year and incidentally crowding war off the front pages
of the world.

WE REGRET
That the Davidson student body will not begin its Christmas holidays until December 22nd. This means that those of us
who live at a distance will scarcely have time to unpack our stockings for Christmas Eve.
That the inhabitants of North, South, East, and West Dormitories must still wade through the mud to reach their classrooms.
And this after three years of sidewalk building.
The double cut system.
The lack of a social center, infirmary, swimming pool, etc., etc., etc.

PUSH IT
Not a hired hack, but the pageant we mean. So far our Centennial program has lagged. Now at last we
have something concrete to work on. Too bad that suggestion of trading a few extra days at Christmas for a
"stay-to-commencement" program didn’t go through. But even so, success or failure of the scheme will depend on us, the members
of the student body. Get and stay behind it.

GROOMING
How is your P. A. today? Our alma mater being what is called in some circles a "campus school" some
of us are inclined to grow a little careless about our personal appearance. Our dress is not governed by any
ironclad rule as is that of some campuses; and we are glad that this is so. But we should not
abuse our liberty.

The Forgotten Men
Much has been said, so the old-time spellbinder goes, of the service rendered to the college by those who wisely
choose extra activities as a part of their education: the athlete, journalist, and student leader. But have we been frugal
with our praise for the host of individuals whose hours of labor are spent in building musical programs for public
enjoyment? Headlines proclaim the merit of the halfback who skirts left end for forty yards, but we have yet to
read headlines for the first chair clarinet player who skirted three octaves on a Liszt cadenza without getting his fingers
caught in the machinery. The student body leaders are surrounded by the halo of prestige, the Davidsonian reporter may grow
up to be a Nozy Broom, and even the debater has his moments of glory when he sways the multitude
of three, or sometimes four. But it is a wide observation that the third horn player does not take the
bows. There is a large part of the student body whose entire portion of extra activity hours is spent in
practicing music, from three to six hours per week, not counting programs, Sunday services, or hours spent marching goose-step and
crosswise for football games. This is work that requires skill, diligence, and patience, and work that, once undertaken, makes it
nearly impossible to participate in any other activity. In praising the building, let us not forget the workmen.

Xmas Gift Fund
"It is more blessed to give than to receive." We are all familiar with these words, perhaps too familiar with
them to grasp their fullest significance. Yet all of us here at Davidson have received; most of us have received
more than the ordinary share of blessings. All of us enjoy health, pleasant surroundings, enlightenment, a reasonable freedom from financial
worries. It is peculiarly fitting therefore, that at this season of the year when all turn our minds towards sharing
that we give some part of our substance towards some cause in which we have no selfish interest, that we
help others with no thought of our own gain. No more worthy cause can be found than the objective chosen
for our Y. M.C. A. gift fund. By contributing to this endeavor you will do much to bring light to
darkest Africa, not only light in the literal, electrical sense but the "Light of the world" which surpasseth all others.
Dr. Crane and his work hardly need introduction to the majority of Davidson students. If you wish further information about
the suggested gift see the news story appearing elsewhere in this paper. In the meantime let us not forget the
joy of Christian Kingdom and let every one of us give "according as he is able."

Campus Comments
"Unaccustomed as I am to making speeches—"
"Since everything has been said, there is little left for me to say, so I—"
We hear such trite phrases as these often used when one is called upon to stand and express himself, stammered
forth we realize the position which the speaker is in. Public speaking is an art—it takes confidence and fortitude. And
before it is possible for us to attain the requisite qualities for this art, we must have experience—the experience that
will train us how to stand on our feet before an audience—think—and say something with meaning—in clear diction. Davidson can
boast the members of its faculty among the best to be found, and in this group there are professors who
are well prepared to present in an interesting and beneficial way, a course which every man here unquestionably needs. Modern
education demands public speaking and who needs preparation in this respect more than the ministers, teachers, lawyers, and business men
that Davidson sends into the vocational world. The school is doing a commendable job in educating her students how to
work with the mind—but we also want to know the technique necessary to convey our thoughts to others with comprehensiveness.
Why shouldn’t we all have the opportunity, while in college, of learning how to speak? We hope that this opportunity
will soon again be afforded at Davidson.

DUNLAP COVINGTON, Pres. of Red & Black Masquers.
P. S.—I request Ken Scott, Captain R. O. T. C. Band, to write the next Campus Comments column.

THE DAVIDSONIAN.

Campus Camera
JOSEPH P. WIDNEY, 22x1 95, HAS WRITTEN 9 BOOKS AND INTENDS TO WRITE AT LEAST 4 MORE. HE WAS AN
EARLY PRESIDENT OF THE UNIVERSITY OF SO. CALIFORNIA AND THE FOUNDER OF THE SCHOOL OF MEDICINE. HE STILL PREFERS AN
OIL LAMP TO ELECTRICITY.

SOPHOMORE WEEKEND turned out to be a pretty potent affair from every angle and in spite of our unsolicited publicity
we had to, very appropriately, pay through the nose. The committee is chortling with glee over making enough for the
Annual sponsor with eight bucks left over—shades of Pan-Hell. We would like to rave about the abundance of charm and
beauty, they came from Massachusetts to Texas, but if we began we'd never end. They were swell, all of them.
Must have been no duty dates for there wasn’t an hideosity on the floor, unless it was Bismarck, and he
was one of those what-is-its. The belle of the ball, by unanimous vote of the stag line, was the poised
Kay Keever. It would be a dubious compliment to call Kay the tops in torch singers for she isn’t the
torch-singer type. With her quiet charm and caressing voice she is a college man’s ideal. We have it from Hal
Overton who had an intermission interview with her. She began singing in the Presbyterian choir in Wilmington and once sang
“I Love You Truly” so effectively at a wedding that the groom began weeping. She became Jelly’s vocalist three or
four years ago and has been with him on his spots at Philadelphia, Baltimore, Virginia Beach, and various college dances.
Now at the Robert E. Lee Hotel in Winston-Salem and first of the year to Cincinnati or Louisville. She is
an ace at ping-pong and is studying piano and we predict that she will be making Paul Whiteman's Ramona turn
green with envy in a very few years. “I like Davidson dances better than any place we have ever played,”
she enthusiastically exclaimed. Kay prefers smooth numbers and especially likes “I Love You Truly,” “Half of Me,” and “Pennies From
Heaven.” Jelly has written a swell number himself entitled “So This Is Goodbye.” Ballroom Chivy Chivy. When the band was
playing that smooth arrangement of “Oh Davidson,” some babe behind us turned to her escort and asked “What's the name
of that song?” And did that one who always said “Goody Goody” when someone cut in on you enjoy your
dancing or was she grateful for its termination? And the more or less ambiguous “I enjoyed it anyhow.” And the
one who said “Yes Sir” when you told her you enjoyedit. TRIVIANA ... The professor who spent most of the
night on the elevator was just going for the ride and not stooging for Nozy. The service in the Tavern,
like its much-publicized courtesy, is lousy. Teepee’s invites must have been of the kittenish type for he had to try
nine times. Tommy Thompson's car was too much behind. Mr. Davidson and date created a favorable impression. Also Coach Chapman
and Colonel Fred Smith. When the (Continued on Page 6)

TEXAS: COLLEGE OF ARTS AND INDUSTRIES HAS AN ACTUAL 1,000,000 ACRE LABORATORY—THE KING RANCH—LARGEST IN U.S. STUDENTS AT THE UNIVERSITY
OF WASHINGTON ARE GIVEN A 10-DAY JAIL SENTENCE IF THEY ARE PLAYING FOOTBALL

Stolen Thunder
By DAYMOND TURNER

Can’t Happen Here—
The ideal college: University of Michigan excuses all students who attend school dances from all classes from 3 P.M. the
afternoon preceding until 12 M. the morning following such events... Ideal prof: The Carolina instructor who assigned “two hours sleep”
to an early morning class because he was tired of seeing his pupils doze.

Ntr—
Sh’s th ctst thng T knw
Nd ts tr I lv hr s;
Bt €r nthe mn sh fil
Nd m lft.t, s wht th hil?

Morning After—
Prof: I'll not go on with my lecture until the room settles down!
Stud: Better go home and sleep it off, old man!

Yea, Frosh!—
Oh, what keeps a freshman
From breaking under the strain?
Oh, what keeps each poor freshman
From becoming insane?
Oh, what keeps the timid freshman
From softening of the brain?
NOTHING!

Crossed—
I fear, the struggling dentist sighed,
That I am a total loss.
I've built a lot of bridges, but folks
Just won't come across.

Yourself (?)
Whittier College set out to discover what college women think of college men. He found that “College men are the
most selfish and egotistical people on earth. They get drunk too much, they lack respect for girls and older people;
they have no sense of responsibility for their social obligations. Their table manners are lousy, and they try to brag
about their dates to society brothers. They are rude, insincere, disrespectful, inconsiderate, impolite, discourteous and impossible, that’s all.” From this
we would gather that most college women are broad-minded.

Meet...
A student at

Oh, Oh—
I stood before the monkey's cage
Their funny ways to see—
I laughed at them a lot until,
I saw one laugh at me.

And HOW did THIS get in?

Remember?—
“What kind of guy is your roommate?”
“He barked his shin the other night and said ‘O, the perversity of inanimate objects’.”
Which, reminds of the report that a Bucknell student goes walking with a dog every evening. We wouldn't talk about
our roommate that way.

History—
This is as old as the identity of Nozy Broom, but for the ignorant two percent we remind you that
Columbus was the first modern politician. He didn’t know where he was going; he didn’t know where he was when
he got there; and he traveled on borrowed money.

WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 9, 1936

OPEN FORUM
Freshmen Dears:

During the past several days my tender heart has been moved with compassion for you darling creatures called Freshmen. This
being my fourth year here, I feel adequately qualified to offer you yearlings words of wisdom, comfort, and cheer. Therefore,
I take this opportunity of correcting your false conceptions, soothing your rebellious spirits, and pointing out a way whereby your
apparent defeats may be turned into glorious victories. “May a word to the wise be sufficient.”

Consider, for a moment, this comparison of a freshman with an upperclassman (my apologies, upperclassman). A freshman loves to talk
about how well-behaved his class is, how overbearing the upperclassmen are, and how unjust the Court of Control is. An
upperclassman dearly loves to speak of his freshman days and blow about how rowdy his class was, how much he
managed to “put over” on his upperclassmen, and how much punishment the Court of Control could have justly administered to
his class. And—now get this point, freshmen—the subjects which afford the most mirth and laughter for upperclassmen, when talking over
their first year, are the penalties imposed upon them by the Court of Control!

So you can readily perceive, my dears, that in the completed process of your evolving from a freshman into an
upperclassman, these class virtues of which you're now so proud shall change into coveted black marks; you shall brag about
how much you were able to “put over” on the upperclassmen; and, paradoxically true, your fondest freshmen memories shall be
the penalties imposed upon you by the Court of Control! And, presto, your defeats of today are transformed into victories!

The reason you see misery rather than delight in your present problems amounts to the difference between a freshman and
a sophomore. I trust that this suggestion will greatly comfort you. In closing, my dears, let me plead with you
to patiently remember that we upperclassmen were once freshmen, and that freshmen shall become upperclassmen.

Lovingly yours,
J.C.A.

To Editor of The Davidsonian:

One of the splendid features of life at Davidson is the unanimity of student opinion and the consistently high level
which these opinions maintain. So well known that they need not be reviewed here, they show an unfailing sense of
justness, friendliness and regard for the improvement of Davidson. It is somewhat surprising then to find two flagrant violations of
this spirit among the students.

The first has to do with the way announcements from the Court of Control are received. The power of any
court rests primarily upon the dignity accorded that court by its adherents. Are the cat-calls, hootings, and wild applause with
which we usually greet such announcements dignified? It is small wonder that freshmen so often astound us by their lack
of respect for the student government. They take their cue from upperclassmen. Such an attitude of Roman holiday is particularly
unfortunate in the case of an individual’s being disciplined as a moment's reflection will prove.

In the second instance we are surprised by the complete failure of student opinion to act. Some of us can
remember when Davidson was a musical desert. There were no radios, and music and a scintilla were about on par—often
dreamed of but rarely attained. Now with music to the right and to the left, the six hundred seem to
be in full flight. We do not feel it necessary to remind the student body that the various musical organizations
are offering us a privilege in permitting us to attend the concerts. We realize, of course, that we know very
little about the type of music Mr. Pfohl is offering. Perhaps “popularized concerts” — full program notes and illustrated talks
on the various instruments would be useful in fostering an appreciation of orchestral music. But only student opinion can make
such subterfuges effective. Here is an opportunity for the student body to take concerted action on constructive phases of student
life.

C.B.L.B.

Tchurch increases next year.

NUTSHELL

For all but the stay-at-homes, this has been a big weekend. The Sophomore class rang the bell with a good
set of dances, and made history by coming out, if reports are true, in the clear financially. It was a
good set, and Kay Keever was worth anybody's three-fifty. Not to mention one of the comeliest passels of gals the
Armory has seen in many a day. '39, here’s a hand!

Perhaps the most significant event of the week was the campusing of the freshman class, who have seemed to have
the amazing opinion that anything they might do was within the law. However, they are destined to spend the next
two weeks or so looking at a cold grey world from behind imaginary iron bars, which will be just as
rigid, in case they haven't found it out yet, as the metal type.

It is too bad they have to call this proposed panorama of Davidson history a “pageant.” That word is unpleasantly
associated in most of our minds with weird and endless tortures periodically inflicted on goers and club members. The word
calls to my own mind a picture of little Herbert, the butcher’s son, dressed in his father’s red bathrobe and
carrying a borrowed walking stick, impersonating the boy David, while Junior Jones, aged seven and clad in a scantiness of
dress that would cause comment in a nudists’ camp, declares in a high treble that he is the mighty Goliath,
and that he will crack the skull of any Israelite that shows his face. The while Mrs. Jones and the
butcher's wife glow with pride as the only happy members of a bored and sleepy audience.

This, I say, is my personal reaction to the word “pageant.” The proposed extravaganza at the college, of course, would
be a quite different affair. One estimate places the cost at between two and three thousand dollars, and capable direction
would create an atmosphere of reality and drama. It has not been made very plain just what incidents in the
history of the college will lend themselves to dramatization, but there ought to be a number of good ones.

There is a rumor going the rounds (maybe you've heard it) that a recent faculty vote stood 16-16 on the
question of dismissing school Saturday, the 19th, and reconvening it on a Monday. The chief objection seems to be that
some of the professors object to Sunday travel. A number of us will have to travel on Sunday to be
back for first period classes on Tuesday the fifth; so why not reconvene at 12:30, the hour of dismissal? You
tell me.

Funny thing about these campus rumors. Nobody seems to know their origin, but everybody repeats them as coming from an
infallible source. Take the one above, for example. It was told to me by a boy who said he was
told by a boy who knew somebody who had it absolutely straight. Since the faculty are always as secretive as
statues about their doings in their own sessions, it seems incredible that such a report could be more than a
guess. But there is always a goodly crop in circulation. Other current rumors: that Secretary Hull will be a Commencement
speaker; that Hal Kemp has been signed for Mid-Winters; that the sky is going to fall (more reasonable than the
other three)!

From a letter of feminine origin:
The co-ed hangs out at the college store to give the boys setting-up exercises. Said the sweet young thing as
she took the frat man’s pin: “I'll be yours fraternity.” (You have to say that one fast).

Not a bit superstitious about the 13 percent increase in enrollment in his department, the dean of the college of
Agriculture at the University of Vermont predicts greater—
