THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 6, 1936

FRATERNITIES BEGIN FINAL SPRING SPORT SCHEDULE
CONTESTANTS COMPETE IN DECATHLON AND SIGMA DELTA PSI EVENTS

SPORTS AFIELD
By YATES FAISON

Davidson broke her losing streak last week by decisively trouncing the State Wolfpack, 7-4. Although few saw the performance before the game, a well-prepared team went into action. Fielding Clark, a sophomore who has pitched and played outfield, stole the show, and his feats afield and at bat were worthy of high praise. His four-base play was the second Ruthian wallop garnered by the Wildcats this year. However, Wood Burns almost gained membership in this select circle, but a perfect relay from Bugg to Rabb to the catcher cut him away at the plate. This hit scored a man, and had there been any pause or bobble whatsoever, Burns would have been one of the home-run hitters.

The protest issued by the juniors on the first game of the softball contest started a series of protests in nearly every game. To simplify matters, it looked like the whole series would have to be played over. Officially, more batters were crowned champions.

More Room Needed?
Does Davidson need more space for athletics? This question is being considered, and Richardson Field certainly brought it to attention. According to pre-formed plans, a new field will be attempted. Attempts will be made to bring the baseball diamond back from the outfield in order to play regular baseball instead of softball—the final vote being 5-4. As Davidson prepares to celebrate its Centennial year, this is but one of the myriad problems confronting it. Do we need more space?

Bold Venture—By A Nose
Did you hear the Derby? Few, I suppose, were those who didn't sit nervously by, at the track or at the side of a radio, to picture those annual tense two minutes as magnificent thoroughbreds sped madly over the long course for glory and riches. A fast track, a thrilling race, and a capacity handling job for the pari-mutuels saw the 1936 Kentucky Derby take its place on equal rank with those gala occasions that had gone before it. To those impartial fans (those few who had placed no bets, and they were few), it was a thrilling race, but all sadly agreed the best horse (Brevity) hadn't won. However, when the wreath was hung over the victor’s neck, it was Bold Venture; when the gold cup was presented, Morton Schwartz accepted it; and when the smiling gent breezed from the pay-off window, he had cashed in 20-1 on the ticket he held on Bold Venture.

U. N. C. Loses State Track Meet For First Time in Fourteen Years
MUNROE WICKER STARS
Merchant, Lee, and Pittman Score For Cats

In the state varsity track meet last Saturday, Carolina led the field with 14 points, followed by Davidson, State, and Wake Forest. This was the first time in fourteen years that Carolina did not win the meet. Duke, who ran second, finished with 7-10 points. Wicker won the 120-yard high hurdles, and Steckel placed third in the pole vault, tying the meet record with a height of 12 feet 11 5-8 inches. Carolina's distance runner, Frazier, set a new record in the mile run, completing the four laps in 4:22. Merchant, Lee, and Pittman scored for Davidson, while Pierce and Lee were entered in the field competitions.

BOLD VENTURE TOPS BREVITY
Favorite Suffers Early Collision, Loses By Nose

Bold Venture, a three-year-old owned by Morton L. Schwartz, surprised the racing world last Saturday afternoon, May 2, by winning the Kentucky Derby at Churchill Downs. He ran the mile and a quarter in 2:03 3-5 to win from Brevity and take the purse of $48,150. Brevity, held up by a jam at the start which resulted in the unseating of Granville's jockey, ran a wonderful race. Indian Broom, from the Pacific Coast, came in third. Hanford, an apprentice from New York, rode Bold Venture to victory and became one of the very few to ride a winner in the Derby. Matt Winn, promoter of the Derby, and all of Kentucky were quite pleased that a native Kentuckian, Morton L. Schwartz, owned the winner. Those who placed their money on Bold Venture to win received $42 for each $2 pari-mutuel ticket. Thus, Bold Venture won with the highest odds, approximately 20 to 1, since 1918 when Exterminator won and paid approximately 30 to 1. As a result of the extremely rough riding in the race, Jockey Ira Hanford, who rode the winner, George Burns, riding Indian Broom, and Nick Wall, rider on the fourth place Coldstream, were promptly suspended for 15 days by the Kentucky racing board.

A group of 34 New Jersey scholars, headed by Princeton's Dr. Harold W. Dodds, petitioned the New Jersey legislature to investigate public officials concerned in the Hauptman case.

The number of college men applying for free Navy air training has decreased sharply since last year.

Ira Hanford, winning jockey, suspended fifteen days for rough riding, said, “I guess I'll spend my time out there feeding sugar to that horse.”

CHARLOTTE, N. C.
FAUL AND CRYMES, INC.
SPORTING GOODS

DEVILS TAKE CINDER CROWN FROM HEELS; WILDCATS ARE THIRD

CENTRE GAME MAY BE PLAYED IN CHARLOTTE
The Davidson-Centre game, to be held at Davidson on November 14, will probably be held in the new Charlotte Municipal Stadium if the arrangements are satisfactory, according to Prof. Fred L. Blythe, chairman of the faculty committee on athletics.

WILDCAT LINKSMEN WIN SECOND PLACE IN STATE TOURNEY
Davidson Wins Over State And Carolina, But Loses To Blue Devils

The Davidson varsity golf team ended a successful season last Friday by placing second in the state meet held at Chapel Hill. The Wildcat golfers defeated Carolina 12 1-2 to 5 1-2 and State 13-5. The Duke team won the meet with 591 strokes, while Davidson had 629. The team has had twelve wins and four losses during the season.

DECATHLON TRY-OUTS ARE OPENED MONDAY
Competitors Qualify For First Three Events

Monday, May 4, the first try-outs for the Decathlon track meet were held, with three events taking place. These were the shot put, hundred-yard dash, and broad jump. During the remainder of the week, other events will be run, including the finals in the broad jump. To qualify for the broad jump, each person had to jump at least 17' 3". For each six inches that he did better than that, he will receive extra points. Those who qualified were Charles Bixler, Bill Boyd, Pleasant Brown, Fred Dennis, Willard Dixon, Leonard Fort, Bob Gregory, Grant Johnson, Oscar Johnson, Chubby Mau- Bill King, Maurice Peabody, John Tice, and Wicker. To qualify in the shot put, each person had to put the shot twenty-five feet. The following qualified: W. Boyd, P.-L. Brown, J. A. Dickson, A. M. Faison, Fraley Fort, J. B. Greene, G. F. Johnson, J. B. and J. D. Johnston, K. H. Knorr, M. E. Peabody, C. I. Sears, T. E. Walker, and A. D. Warden. The aspirants were required to run the 100-yard dash in 14". Those who qualified were C. R. Bixler, W. G. Dennis, A. M. Faison, Fort, J. B. Greene, R. W. Greene, R. Gregory, Guiles Johnson, G. W. Moffett, M. Peabody, F. S. Poe, J. Sample, C. I. Sears, W. Telford, T. E. Walker, A. D. Warden, C. Windham, and W. A. Wicker. The jumps and runs in the Decathlon will also count for the requirements to get into the athletic fraternity, Sigma Delta Psi.

FROSH TENNIS SQUAD CONQUERS CHARLOTTE
Freshmen Lose Singles; Come Back in Doubles

The Freshman tennis team scored a 5-4 victory over the tennis squad of Charlotte high school on Tuesday, April 28. The Charlotte netmen were victors in the singles matches 4-2. Hobb (C) won over Northcross 6-3, 7-5. Kelly (C) defeated Jones 6-2, 7-5. Beaty (C) beat Cloyd 1-6, 7-5, 6-0. White (D) was the winner over Akers 6-4, 7-5. Boyd (C) defeated Lawson (D) 6-1, 7-5. Sloan (D) beat Linker (C) 6-2, 6-1. The Freshmen were victorious in all three of the doubles matches. Northcross and Sloan (D) defeated Hobb and Kelly (C) 6-4, 6-4.played the SPE’s, the KA’s played the Phi Delt’s, and the Pi KA’s played the Pika’s. The Phi Gam’s won over the Beta’s by the score of 3 to 0. Irvin Bull with a 42 beat David Stocks 3 down and 1 to go. Stocks had a 50 for the nine holes. Buddy Branton shot a 50 to beat Dave Sellars 1 down. Sellars had a 52 for the round. The SAE's team defeated the SPE’s by the same score of 3 to 0. Yates Faison with a 42 downed Walt Marchant 2 and 1. Andy Heilman beat Tom Tutyer 3 and 2 after shooting a 50. The KA’s won the match with a 45 to the Phi Delt's 50. 

Jimmy Westall and Wally Tonissen were tied with Sam Moffett at the end of the nine holes. Tonissen won his match on the last hole, thus giving Westall the opportunity to win the match by taking the extra hole. The Phi Delt's thus came out on top with a score of 1 hole. The Pi KA’s played their match with the Pika’s, but due to a misunderstanding of the rules of scoring, Pete Whittle has not yet announced any decision.

Hobbs and Kelly 6-2, 6-3, and White (D) over Beaty and Akers 5-7, 6-3, 6-3. Cloyd and Lawson (D) beat Boyd and Linker 6-4, 6-4. The freshmen tennis team met the team from Raleigh High at Raleigh Monday, May 4. Results of this match were unknown at the time the paper went to press.

415 SOUTH TRYON ST. Sunday is MOTHER’S DAY. GIVE HER CANDY — from — White Drug Store. DRUGS : SODAS : SUNDRIES.

FROSH TRACK TEAM PLACES THIRD WITH CATAWBA IN MEET. Walker, Woodward, Harrison, Sample, and Warden Win Points. The Wildkitten track team tied for third with Catawba in the State meet held at Chapel Hill last Saturday, May 2. Nine men represented Davidson in the freshman competition. Carolina and Duke led the field in scoring, and Davidson tied with Catawba for third with 15 points. Walker won the only first for the Kittens in the two-mile run. Walker's time in the two-mile was 10:42. He finished ahead of a large field, and Woodward placed second in the event. Other freshmen scoring was made by Harrison, running second in the 220-yard low hurdles, and by Woodward placing fourth in the mile. Sample tied with two others for second in the pole vault, and Warden took fourth in the shot put. Abbott, Johnson, Tice, and McClellan all did creditable work. Johnson and Abbott bettered their marks in the javelin and the 440-yard dash respectively.

Davidson 88; Wofford 28. The Wildkitten track team defeated Wofford April 28 in its last dual engagement 88-28. Bill Boyd led the scoring with 15 points, gaining three firsts and two second places. Davidson won 12 first places, and only one event, the pole vault, went to Wofford. “Boo” Walker won both the mile run and the half-mile. His time in the mile was 4:50.3, and the 880-yard run was timed in 2:12. Woodward and Wilson won places in the mile for Davidson.

Harrison Tops Frosh Scorers. Freshmen Close Successful Season on Cinder Paths. Frank Harrison and T. E. “Boo” Walker led the track team in scoring as the season closed. With the State meet at Chapel Hill, freshman competition ended for 1936, and Harrison with 67 1/4 points was high-scorer. Walker's total of 55 ran second in the list. Others who tallied this spring include Bill Boyd, 35, Dave Warden, 29, Tom Abbott, 29, Dave Woodward, 27, Charlie Sample 23 1/4, McClellan 21, Grant Johnson 21, Hipp & Miller 8, Rice 5 1/4, Sample, J. R., 5 1/4, Johnny Tice, Bob Friberg 5, Graves 5, Lutz 4, Lee 3, Patterson 3, Johnston 3, and Wilson 1. The Wildkitten schedule, which began with the Indoor State meet early in March, had five dual meets with Furman, Presbyterian Junior College, V. P. I., Presbyterian College, and Wofford. The only defeat was at V. P. I. by a close score. At the State meet, Davidson freshmen placed third with Catawba. The Presbyterian College meet broke through a jinx that the Wildkittens would lose at home but not at P. C. The freshmen won the meet held here on Richardson Field 72-52. The well-balanced squad ended with an excellent record.

STAR GROUP SELECTED FROM SOFTBALL TEAMS. The Davidson all-star softball team, composed of men selected from the four class teams, has been chosen by “Mokey” Yates and Faison. The softball contest has recently come to an end, with the sophomore nine victorious. The selections were as follows: Pitcher—Hunter, Iverson; first base—Dixon; second base—Lindsay; third base—Gilks; shortstop—Anderson; left-field—Armstrong; center-field—Gray; right-field—Brewer; shortstop—Smith. Honorable mention: Branton, B; Branton, C; Benfield, B; Lyerly; Griffin, D; Brittain; Rainey; Clark; Crooks; Graham; Reid; Thompson, J; McLaurin. The all-star team was composed of four Juniors, three Seniors, three Sophomores, and two Freshmen.

DAVIDSON NET TEAM WINS TWO MATCHES. All Matches Featured By Close Final Scores. The Wildcat racqueteers hung up two more victories and had one defeat registered against them last week.

Davidson (4) vs. U. of Va. (5). The score was tied at 3-3 at the end of the singles, but the Virginians took two of the three doubles matches to win. SUMMARY: Lewis (D) defeated Sloan 1-6, 6-4, 6-2. Fishburne (V) beat Kenney 9-7, 7-5. Bell (D) defeated Williams 7-5, 6-3. Fine (V) beat Frampton 4-6, 6-4, 6-0. Henry (V) defeated Carlson 6-3, 6-3. Barnett (D) beat Glassie 6-3, 6-8, 6-4. Lewis-Bell (D) defeated Sloan-Williams 4-6, 6-4, 6-4. Fine-Henry (V) beat Kenney-Frampton 6-1, 6-3. Jones-Fishburne (V) beat Barnett-Carlson 7-5, 2-6, 6-3.

Davidson (5) vs. Country Club of Virginia (3). Of the eight matches played, four were extended to three sets, while a ninth was called on account of darkness with Frampton-Kenney (D) and Dabney-Morgan each holding one set. SUMMARY: Lewis (D) defeated Cabell 3-6, 6-3, 7-5. Kenney (D) defeated Miller 2-6, 6-4, 12-10. Morgan (CC) defeated Bell 3-6, 10-8, 6-4. Valentine (CC) beat Frampton 6-1, 6-2. Carlson (D) beat Smith 6-4, 6-0. Barnett (D) beat Carrington 6-0, 7-5. Cabell-Miller (CC) defeated Lewis-Bell 4-6, 6-3, 6-3. Carlson-Barnett (D) beat Valentine-Talman 6-3, 6-4.

Davidson (7) vs. W. & Lee (2). All matches finished in straight sets except the two which the Generals won. In both of these, the Davidson boys took the first set but were unable to hold their lead. SUMMARY: Lewis (D) beat Radcliffe 7-5, 8-6. McCardell (WL) defeated Kenney 5-7, 6-4, 6-4. Bell (D) beat Prugh 6-0, 6-0. Frampton (D) beat Reynolds 6-2, 6-4. Carlson (D) defeated Garber 6-3, 7-5. Barnett (D) beat Meier 6-2, 6-0. Radcliffe-McCardell (WL) beat Lewis-Bell 5-7, 6-4, 6-3. Kenney and Frampton (D) defeated Reynolds and Prugh 6-3, 6-4. Carlson-Barnett (D) defeated Garber-Meier 6-0, 6-1.

The Cats had their last meet of the season this afternoon on the local courts with the Red Terrors from State.

JO JONES Inc. HART-SCHAFFNER & MARX CLOTHES. STETSON & LEE HATS. MANHATTAN SHIRTS. HICKOK SUSPENDERS AND BELTS. PALM BEACH SUMMER SUITS. SEINSHEIMER STUDENTS’ SUITS. RUGBY SWEATERS. SWANK JEWELRY AND OTHER FINE MERCHANDISE. JO JONES Inc. 210 S. TRYON.

LITTLE Davidson Theatre. WEDNESDAY, MAY 6. SPECIAL INVESTIGATOR: Richard Dix, as Agent of Department of Justice. THURSDAY-FRIDAY, MAY 7-8. TRAIL OF THE LONESOME PINE with Fred MacMurray, Henry Fonda, Sylvia Sidney. SATURDAY, MAY 9. ROBIN HOOD OF ELDORADO starring Warner Baxter in Old-Fashioned Western. MONDAY, MAY 12. LORD FAUNTLEROY with Freddie Bartholomew, Dolores Costello, C. Aubrey Smith.

WILDCATS WIN OVER STATE WOLFPACK TO TAKE FIRST VICTORY. Jenkins Stars By Holding Opponents to Five Hits, All Singles. QUICK LEADS BATTERS. Charlotte Nine Takes Game By 11-6 Score.

The Davidson baseball team broke into the win column Thursday as they pounded out a decisive victory over the State Wolfpack. In two other games last week, against Carolina and State, the local boys lost both by one-run margins. The Cats have been steadily improving all year and have proved that they are a good ball team by their recent performances.

Carolina 3—Davidson 2. With Yearwood going good on the mound, the Tarheels held until the seventh frame when they pushed over a run. Davidson had two tallies at the time and seemed to be headed for victory, but their opponents bunched hits in the eighth for two runs and choked a Wildcat rally in the last frame. Wright, making his debut in the Big Five, gave the Cats only five hits.

State 4—Davidson 3. Davidson started off right with two runs in the first inning, but Stuart Flythe, State's mound ace, settled down. In the second, the Wolfpack jumped on Judge Cathey and got three runs with four hits. In the last seven innings, State was able to get only three scattered bingles. The Cats got nine safeties, but Flythe was stingy in the pinches.

Davidson 7—State 4. The Davidson hitters found the range in the first inning and pounded the offerings of Griffin for three runs. Blount came to his relief but was no more successful. The Cats got two in the second and one in the third, making the count 6-0. Jack Jenkins went the whole route for Davidson and was never in serious danger, giving up only five hits, all singles. Quick led the locals at bat with two doubles and a single. Clark hit a homer and made a sensational catch in left field.

Concord Semi-Pros 8—Davidson 0. Gillespie, formerly with the Charlotte club, shut the Cats out with two hits, a double by Quick and a single by Clark. Coach Newton hurled the first four innings for Davidson.