WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 28, 1936 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Three

TELL PHI SOCIETY ABOUT RARE MALADY
Kisses Caused Case of Hives; Disease Called Allergy
HARKEY TELLS OF PAPER
McInnis Speaks On Choosing Profession

At the regular meeting of the Philanthropic Literary Society Tuesday night, October 20, Brad Reid spoke on “Allergies,” D. D. McInnis made a talk on “Choosing a Profession,” and Henry Harkey ran over a few of the details in producing and distributing a metropolitan newspaper.

Reid explained that a person adversely affected by certain substances was said to have an allergy. He mentioned the well-known disease hay-fever as an example and cited instances of persons made ill by commonplace things such as iron, cats’ fur, horned rimmed spectacles, goldenrod, and dust. He also told of a boy who broke out in hives every time he was kissed by a girl. After some investigation, the cause was finally determined to be a constituent of the brand of lipstick the girl used. Medicine has yet to find the cause of allergies.

In his talk, McInnis pointed out several things which one must keep in mind in choosing a profession, and emphasized the great importance of selecting a life work for which one has ability and in which one is interested.

Harkey drew from his own personal experiences in the office of The Charlotte Observer for the body of his talk. He described in a very interesting and colorful manner the method used to check up the many newsboys used by The Observer, and told of all the various phases in producing the newspaper.

The society will hold its next meeting at the regular time, Tuesday, November 3, in the Phi Hall.

BEAUTY WATCHES BRAWN DOWN THE CITADEL

Above are the girls who thrilled the spectators and heartened the teams at the Davidson-Citadel game last week. Half of them sat on the sidelines at each side of the field. Front row, left to right: Caddie Willis of Concord; Coralie Mears, Concord; Marilyn Brittain, Charlotte; Barbara Davis, Charlotte; Gertrude Ross, Concord; and Nell Abbott, Charlotte. Back row, same direction: Louise Martin, Sanford; Beatrice Hammond, Andrews, S. C.; Mary Jane Childress, Greenville, S. C.; Bea Robeson, Red Springs; Jeannette Michael, Charleston, S. C., and Virginia Carey, Charlotte. (Photo courtesy Charlotte News)

Professors Speak On Foreign Localities

KENYON, POE AND WALKER ADDRESS QUADRANGLERS

Dr. G. M. Maxwell, of Roanoke, Virginia, and G. R. Vowles will speak to the Quadranglers Club at its next meeting on Thursday, Oct. 29. Dr. Maxwell graduated from Davidson in 1896 and is now practicing medicine in Roanoke. Each will present a talk on some particular phase of the life or manners of the localities which they visited.

THREE EXPRESS VIEWS

On Tuesday evening, October 20, the Eumenean Literary Society held a meeting in the Eumenean Hall at 8 o'clock. President St. Clair presided. Kenyon, "Boo" Walker, and Frank Poe, the first and last of which were for the purpose of taking the initiation into the society. Both talks were very interesting and intellectual ideas were exchanged by members.

FJ HAS THREE TALKS

A birthday dinner was given for Dr. C. K. Brown at his home on Saturday evening, Oct. 24. Miss Mary Young was taken to the hospital in Charlotte. She has been suffering with a knee injury for many weeks.

BETA THETA PI—Bill Bradburn spent the weekend at his home in New Orleans. Eddy Steere and Fred Smyre were visitors to the chapter Saturday. After the Davidson-Citadel game a feed was given at the house, and the following girls attended: Nell Abbott, Chick Barringer, Barbara Davis, Lib Gammon, Pidge Lafitte, and Betty Marlin, Charlotte; and Kelly Smyre, Gastonia.

KAPPA ALPHA—A. L. Graham, Wilmington, Del. was recently pledged.

LOYALTY SONG

“Hail! O Davidson,” is the title of a new song recently received by Prof. J. C. Pfohl, director of music, the words and music of which are the work of Prof. E. F. L. Blythe. The song was written for the college’s Centennial celebration and is called the “Davidson Loyalty Song.”Attending the Prince areata with Capt'n Billy Crooks and the crew visited during the summer, as it was observed by them personally and expects to be able to present it during Homecoming. Miss Helen Cumnock, attending Queens-Chicora in Charlotte, spent the weekend at home.

Coach “Doc” Newton has recently written the words for a pep song which will probably be used for the first time at Homecoming. Professor Lilly will talk about the poem entitled “Negativism.” Dr. Vowles will present his observations made during a trip to Germany.

The Quadranglers Club is a faculty organization for the exchange of intellectual ideas and sets of entertainment which meets on the last Thursday of every month. Dr. C. K. Brown is the current president of the club.

Approximately 60 North Carolina music teachers assembled at Davidson last Saturday, Oct. 24, for a one-day institute for music. Miss Grace Van Dyke More, head of the public school music department of the Women’s College of the University of North Carolina, presided. The day consisted of song meetings, discussions, and type lessons, all designed to help the delegates in their high school work.

Mrs. W. A. Withers of Raleigh spent the weekend with her brother-in-law, Mr. J. R. Withers. Also in Davidson over the weekend were Mr. and Mrs. J. T. Richardson, Miss Jane Leighton Richardson, Miss Ida Currie of Raleigh, and Mrs. G. H. Currie of Clarkton and her son George. Miss Elizabeth Shipman of Brevard, now teaching in Goldsboro, spent the weekend with her aunt, Mrs. J. R. Withers.

KAPPA ALPHA.—Banks Gladdin spent the weekend at his home in Chester, S. C., and R. S. H. Arras visited relatives in Davidson. Taylor Marion, Anglus McCallie, Fred and Lorenzo McPhail, Jeff Robbins, and Dick Woods were also present.

SIGMA ALPHA EPSILON—The visitors of the chapter during the past weekend were: Mr. T. M. Marchant and Louise Jordan, Greenville, S. C.; Betsy Armfield, Asheboro; Aldith Atkins, Raleigh; and Elizabeth Jacobs, Lexington.

KAPPA SIGMA—Those who left the campus for the weekend were Haywood Hill, Grey Hunter, and Ed Glenn who went to Greensboro, and Tom McAlpine who went to Hartsville, S. C.

Mr. and Mrs. T. H. Shipman left Monday after visiting Mrs. J. R. Withers for a week. Mrs. Shipman is the sister of Mrs. Withers.

Following this, the society expressed the desire to challenge the Philanthropic Society to a public debate sometime within the coming month. Varsity debaters will be excluded from participation in this debate.

After creating a seething atmosphere, the meeting was adjourned until Tuesday, November 3.

REMARKS ON DAVIDSON CAMPUS

Mr. Moreland Cunningham of the Class of '35 spent the weekend in Davidson. Mr. Cunningham is now director of music in the Morganton schools.

MUSIC GROUP MEETS

The main activity of this society was the giving of an information test to new members at one of the meetings. The test was composed of two dozen questions from each department. There were 50 of them, each counting plus one if correctly answered, minus one if answered incorrectly, and zero if blanked.

RENT A CAR
M. P. Henderson
GULF GAS & OIL

SPEED, PRECISION, QUALITY...
BUFF SHOE SHOP
“When It’s Done By Buff, That’s Enuff”
O. C. BUFF, Prop.

Complete Line of Candies
White Drug Store
“Davidson’s Oldest and Best”

Hallowe’en
Thurs-Fri. Oct. 29-30
DIMPLES
Sat, Oct. 31
KELLY THE SECOND
Mon. Nov. 2
15 MAIDEN LANE
Tues. Nov. 3

Another Charming Picture Starring Shirley Temple
A Full-Length Comedy with Patsy Kelly, Charlie Chase, and “Big-Boy” Williams
A swell Mystery of Murders, Romance, and Fights. See This.
CHARLIE CHAN AT THE RACE TRACK
Warner Oland in a Stirring Murder Mystery