THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 12, 1936

NEW BORDER PLACED UPON ANNIVERSARY GIFT PLATES

Alumni Office Will Accept Loss on First Twenty-Five Dozen Plates

FUTURE PRICE HIGHER

Oldest Alumnus of Davidson Purchases One Dozen

Because of the type of border secured on the Centennial Plates, the Wedgwood Company recently notified the Alumni Office that these plates would cost more than was originally announced. However, the Alumni Office will take the loss on the first twenty-five dozen that have been ordered, and sell them for the price that was originally quoted at $15 per dozen, $8 per half dozen, and $1.50 each. After the original order has been sold, it will be necessary to raise the price on all others sold to $18 per dozen. The difference in the price of these plates is caused by the type of border. The price that was first quoted was for plates with a printed border, while those plates which have been secured have a raised border. To date, 17 dozen of these plates have been sold of the original order of 25 dozen. This only leaves eight dozen to be sold at the original price. The blue plates have been the most popular of all the colors. There have been more of these sold than of the other three colors, Rose, Pink, Green, and Mulberry put together. Davidson's oldest alumnus, Dr. S. H. Bell, 1870, of Wrightsville, Pa., has ordered one dozen of these plates.

The Centennial Plates are being made for Davidson by Josiah Wedgwood and Sons of Etruria, England. The center design is a view of Chambers Building, which was selected because it has been the center of Davidson life for almost a century and because the new building is a true representation of the college. The plates can be ordered from the Davidson College Alumni Association, Davidson, N. C., and payment should be sent with the order.

Divinity Band Holds Meeting

An important meeting of the Ministerial Band was held Sunday afternoon at the Social Center, the main purpose being to nominate new officers for the organization. The meeting was opened with a Scripture reading by James Selango, after which Andy Wilkerson led the group in a word of prayer. The secretary then read the minutes of the last meeting. The attendance was much below the average with only seven members present. These members constituted a nominating committee, and several men were nominated to fill the three important offices. They are as follows: James Selango and R. J. Renfield for President; W. C. Brown, J. H. Gailey, and T. D. Mullis for Vice-President; T. W. Street, C. R. Bixler, W. R. Laws, and W. M. Wicker for Secretary-Treasurer. During the course of the next meeting, the above nominees will be voted on by the members of the organization. Following the business meeting, there was very little discussion among the members because of the small attendance. The group was dismissed shortly with the Mizpah Benediction.

"Y" SENDS DEPUTATIONS

Two deputation teams were sent out by the Davidson Y. M. C. A. last Sunday. One, composed of Johnny McMullen and Charlie Mauze, spoke to boys at the Charlotte Y. M. C. A. The boys were divided into two sections according to age. Johnny spoke to the younger boys while Charlie addressed the older ones. Another deputation group composed of Johnny Moseley and Dan Iverson held Sunday School services in the Davidson Colored Baptist Church.

Spinach is the fastest-selling vegetable in the student cafeteria.

Cunningham Organizes Junior Band

Last week the music department added to its organizations a second band. This band, under the direction of A. Moreland Cunningham, meets every Tuesday. At the first meeting on February the fourth, nineteen men reported. Professor Pfohl, director of the musical department, said the purpose of this band was to train men for the Concert Band, and give beginners the opportunity to play with an organization. Mr. Pfohl and Mr. Cunningham urge all beginners and all men having musical ability, but who are not now in the band or orchestra, to enroll immediately.

"LIMIT COURTS" CRY STUDENTS

Collegiate Press Requests Congress to Limit Supreme Court’s Power

(By Associated Collegiate Press)

Washington, D.C. (ACP)—The power of the United States Supreme Court to invalidate legislation has reached socially damaging proportions, in the opinion of American college students, and should be curbed without delay. Revision of the constitution so as to check the power of the high court is favored by a majority of students, according to an Associated Collegiate Press survey just completed. Remedies ranging from increasing the number of Supreme Court justices by naming liberal appointees known to have kept pace with the times to giving Congress the power to reinstate legislation thrown out by the court are suggested by college leaders.

Strongly urging revision, The Ohio State Lantern commends a state law-maker: “Usually conservative, safe and sound, Senator Vic Donahey announced in Washington that he favors a revision of the Constitution because he believes it has not kept pace with the times. A revision is necessary, he pointed out, to provide additional guarantees of health, safety, and security for the people.”

“We believe that it is a significant statement and probably holds significant results. It is indeed heartening to note that Senator Donahey, who is usually classed in the conservative bloc in Congress, has finally recognized the need for change. His statement indicates quite clearly a trend away from the traditionally-held belief that the Constitution is a sacred document, one which must not be changed lest we gain the wrath of the gods. There is even a new and more liberal attitude growing among the general public toward constitutional change. This is as it should be. The ironical fact is that for too long most of us have clung to the time-worn theory that to change the Constitution is plain heresy.”

Meanwhile, Duquesne University students, in response to a questionnaire, voted 56 percent in favor of curbing the power of the Supreme Court. It is evident that the interest of students is steadily swinging to matters of national concern.

Map To Indicate Program Range

Professor Pfohl announced to the band last week that a large map of the United States would be made, and on it would be designated every part of the country hearing the Davidson program. This map will be placed in the banquet hall. A bulletin board will also be placed there on which will be posted letters commenting on the Davidson radio program. Mr. Pfohl said he was particularly anxious to hear from all points hearing the Columbia chain program on Wednesday evening, and asks that any student receiving comment on the program place a slip under his door naming the town. All “fan” letters for the past three years have been kept on file, and will now be used in working out this map. Among the places having heard the program are England and Toronto, Canada.

FAUL AND CRYMES, INC.
SPORTING GOODS
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
415 SOUTH TRYON ST.

D. C. Library Founded 1841

(This is the first in a series of two articles on the library).

By RICHARD VOWLES

The Davidson College Library has had an interesting and, in many ways, unique history in the course of its growth from a few scattered volumes to the organized unit which it is today.

Its Beginning

When the sparse collection of books owned by the College was first catalogued in 1841, it was found to include some 231 volumes, most of which had been presented to the College. At that time, the literary societies had their own libraries which were larger, strange to say, than the College library. They owned 700 books each. In 1837, a committee appointed by the Phi Society had been successful in collecting volumes, and the Eu library had been begun two years later.

Students Aided Library

In the late forties, all books were to be covered when in the hands of the borrower. Then too, according to Miss Cornelia Shaw's "Davidson College,” each man was to use “all proper means during Commencement to get money or books.” A few years later, the Eu Society borrowed $500 for the enlarging of their library.

Many Books Burned

At about the same time, a general purification of the library was felt necessary, so all the works of Medical Men Held On 4th

Steal Corpse; Hornbeck Re-elected as Literary Society Head

On February 4th the Philanthropic Literary Society held its semi-monthly meeting in the Phi Hall at 7:30 o'clock. George A. Hornbeck, who was re-elected president of the society, delivered his inaugural address. In his address he called upon the members of the society to give their utmost support to the work of the society during this semester. Following Hornbeck’s address, L. R. Lindsey gave a talk on the subject of “Driving After Dark,” and based his remarks on an article written by Governor Hoffman, of New Jersey. He pointed out that out of the 36,000 fatal automobile accidents last year, 20,000 occurred at night. One reason for this large number of accidents at night, he stated, is that the lighting system of many automobiles is defective. The lighting system of an automobile depreciates in accuracy about 8 percent after the first few months; and as a result, many people drive at night at the rate of 50-60 miles per hour, even though their lighting systems are adequate for driving at only 30 miles per hour. Lindsey continued that carbon monoxide and monotony of driving cause many people to go to sleep at the wheel. In past years the motors made so much noise that the driver was kept awake; but now that the motor has been perfected, and the noise disposed of, drivers are more likely to go to sleep. Monotony at the wheel is the leading source of night accidents, he stated. The sleepy condition seems to prevail at about four o'clock in the morning.

Elude Police

Ancient Story of Anatomy School Escaped Unsupported By Fact

By FITZ DADE

The old song starts off “Once, in the dear dead days beyond recall.” Events that are said to form the basis of this legendary report—it may be true, and who can say—happened in the hazy period of the history of Davidson College, which we may or may not call the “dear dead” days, that finds its origin in or about the last decade of the nineteenth century. At that time Davidson had a medical school, a great rambling old building some distance from (Old) Chambers, in what is now Fraternity Court. As all college students are aware, the study of medicine requires some slight knowledgeof the human body, at least: then Davidson College laid great stress on such knowledge. But it is equally obvious that human bodies, studied properly in medical schools, would be incapable of registering progress should the occasion arise for a certain amount of dissection. Bodies are scarce for such purposes (or were in those days), and were obtained almost entirely from the North. Sometimes unexpected need would arise for a body for study purposes and there would not be enough time to get those from the source of supply. One moonlit night, a group of students were struggling unobtrusively as possible from a home to the negro cemetery carrying a dark, shapeless bundle. Who were they, where had they been, and where were they going? They were some of the hardier spirits of the medical school, carrying back from this convenient cemetery what they had not had time to get from the vendors in the North. Although we find, on the best authority, that this kind of thing had happened before, we cannot discover any other time effective resistance was offered to the intellectual zeal of the medical students. On this occasion, the friends of the deceased had been watched at their task and when the students thought they were unobserved, they sneaked into the graveyard and dug up the corpse—whose name (Continued on Page 6).

The speaker concluded by imploring his hearers to be sensible and drive under the proper conditions, and thus save their own lives as well as those of others. During the business session of the meeting, the names of sixty men were submitted to the society as being qualified for membership in the organization. It was announced that bids will be sent to these men in the near future. Later, a motion was made and passed to drop from the roll the name of any member of the society who is absent from three consecutive meetings.

OUTSTANDING LECTURES TO BE HEARD HERE SOON (Continued from Page 1)

This lecture is being offered under the auspices of the Davidson College Committee on Lectures. There will be no admission and the public is cordially invited to attend this popular talk. John and Franklin D. Roosevelt, Jr., sons of the President and Harvard students, have taken a pledge for safe driving. Both have been involved in numerous accidents.

Try A HOT OIL TREATMENT at... JOHNSON’S BARBER SHOP Ask the Man Who’s Had One

Friday Is Valentine Day SEND HER A BOX OF CANDY From... White Drug Store

The early librarians were professors, paid $30 in addition to their regular salaries, that is, until the “hard times” period following the war. The library room was kept open for use one half hour a week until 1907, when the time was changed to two hours per day. Voltaire, Rousseau, and Paine were burned.

Town Tattle

Mrs. R. N. Cadwallader, daughter of Major and Mrs. F. M. Cochran, has set sail from her home in Manila, in the Philippine Islands, and will arrive in Davidson March 20. Mrs. Cadwallader and her two sons, aged six years and eight months respectively, will spend several weeks with her parents.

Mrs. F. K. Fleagle was hostess to the Thelemite Club Friday afternoon, February 7. Mrs. I. J. Erwin gave a paper on “The South Sea Islands.”

Trustees Petitioned

During these activities of the literary societies, the College library, having reached 2,000 volumes in number, was being housed in one of the main rooms of the old Chambers Building. The faculty then realized the condition of the library and petitioned the Trustees for $10,000, despite the $500 annual gift already set aside by that body.

Early Librarians

Miss J. A. Singer, of Greensburg, is a guest in the home of Col. and Mrs. J. T. Rhett. Mrs. Singer is on her way home from Florida.

Mrs. Emma Black gave an interesting talk on “John Milton, His Life and Works.”

Mr. Eustace Lingle of New York City, spent the weekend with his parents, Dr. and Mrs. T. W. Lingle.

Mr. and Mrs. J. V. Lore and family have moved into one of the Hunter houses on Concord Street. Coach and Mrs. Flake Laird are now occupying the house vacated by the Lores.

Mr. Shaw Speaks To Pre-Meds

At the first regular meeting after the holidays, Pi Delta Alpha, honorary pre-medical fraternity, heard Mr. W. Shaw speak on the “Relation of Circulation of Blood to the Absorption of Food.” This meeting was held last Wednesday night and the meetings are held regularly every two weeks. Mr. A. L. Stevens, J. W. Templeton, and W. G. White are newly elected members of Pi Delta Alpha and they made short talks on some topic of interest to pre-medical students. Stevens and White are both members of the Senior Class while Templeton is a member of the Junior Class.

The Davidson Music Club held its regular meeting Tuesday evening, February 11, in the Civic League Hall. Miss Connie Shelton was in charge of the program, which consisted of martial music, both vocal and instrumental. Kenneth Foreman, pianist, was guest soloist of the evening.

Dr. K. O. Foreman will occupy the pulpit of the Church of the Covenant in Greensboro, during the month of February.

Dr. and Mrs. Price Gwynn entertained the Tuesday Club at a valentine party Tuesday evening, February 11.

The Junior Choir, under the direction of James Shannon, furnished the special music at the morning service at the Davidson Presbyterian Church.

Younger Boys Hold Meeting On Friday

The weekly meeting of a group of boys between the ages of nine and fifteen was held Friday night, February the seventh, under the tutelage of Cage Brewer and Fred Stair. This group is connected with the Boy Scout work in the Y. M. C. A. for the purpose of teaching the younger boys to be good citizens by inculcating the principles of the Scout oath and laws. At this meeting, Cage Brewer spoke on the foundation of scouting by Sir Baden Powell in the United States on February 8, 1910, in New York City. The entire week up to that time was being dedicated to the founder, by scouts throughout the entire nation. Brewer spoke of the Silver Buffalo award that the founder had set up in May 1920, for any person who committed some heroic deed. He mentioned one boy, who with only one leg, had jumped into the water and had saved a little girl from drowning. This and many other cases interested the boys very much. After this short talk, Brewer and Stair led the boys in some organized games, as is the usual custom, and while doing so, they fell victims of a “frame up,” and soon had a big snowball fight on their hands.

CATS DEFEAT BEARS (Continued from Page 3)

According to those in a position to know, the Wildcats made a very good contest out of their Saturday night engagement with State, quite in contrast to their listless impotence in the previous tilt with the same team, which was carried off by the West Raleigh boys by an overwhelming 85-17 count. This time, playing in State’s gymnasium, the Wildcats were able to hold the Red Terrors even during much of the contest, and were ahead of them at one time. State was out in front, 21-19 at the half, and gradually increased its lead to eleven points at the final whistle. The Wildcats were paced as usual by sophomore Connie Mac Perry, who caged eight field goals and one free throw for seventeen points, while Peabody, Armstrong, and Knorr had nine, eight, and seven respectively for Davidson.

Dr. K. O. Foreman will occupy the pulpit of the Church of the Covenant in Greensboro, during the month of February.

June 22, ten days before the American Olympic rowing trials, has been set as the date for this year’s Poughkeepsie regatta.

A short business session was held after the regular program was completed. During this session, the fraternity decided upon 8:00 as a definite hour of meeting on the Wednesday nights that they gather. President Smith was especially anxious that all members note this new hour. Gordon Smith, who heads the fraternity, gave a report upon the progress he had made in his effort to secure a charter from Alpha Epsilon Delta, the national pre-medical fraternity. He reported favorable progress had been made and it is expected that Pi Delta Alpha will send this petition into the national organization in the near future. Pi Delta Alpha is the local pre-medical honorary fraternity and its membership is restricted to Juniors and Seniors who are studying for the medical profession and whose grades justify their admission to membership. It was founded here in 1931.

President Gordon Smith presided and the attendance was reported as good.

All Latest Phonograph Records PARKER-GARDNER CO 118 WEST TRADE STREET CHARLOTTE, N. C.

The ONLY cough drop MEDICATED WITH INGREDIENTS OF Vicks VapoRub

Modern successor to old-fashioned cough syrups...more convenient... less expensive... lingers longer in the throat.

Opening Mon., Feb. 17th LESLIE HOWARD BETTE DAVIS Stars of “Bondage” in “PETRIFIED FOREST” From Leslie Howard's Famous Stage Hit

BALCONY 25¢ ANYTIME

Now Thru Sat. “CEILING ZERO”