MASQUERS WILL GIVE PLAY, “THE QUEEN’S HUSBAND,” MARCH 24

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

The Davidsonian

YEARLY STUDENT BODY ELECTIONS ARE DRAWING SPEEDILY TO A CLOSE

VOL. XXIII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., MARCH 18, 1936 NUMBER 20

EDWARDS CHOSEN STUDENT BODY HEAD
Walt Dickson Elected YMCA President--’37-’38

PRESIDENT WINS ON SECOND BALLOT HELD YESTERDAY
Defeats Wade Boggs, Frank Brown, and Ken Scott; Carlson Withdraws

TWO BALLOTS REQUIRED
Hill and Wicker Are Elected Vice-Presidents

Walter Dickson defeated Wade Boggs for the office of President of the Y. M. C. A. in the final voting held in chapel Tuesday morning. He will succeed Harvey Glass of Richmond, Va. On the same ballot Heywood Hill of Richmond, Va., and Monroe Wicker of Charlotte, were elected. Dickson is from Anderson, S.C. He is president of Pi Kappa Alpha social fraternity. He is a track man and a member of the “D” Club. He was first vice-president of the Y. M. C. A. last year.

Four students were nominated for the office of president: Wade Boggs, Frank Brown, Walter Dickson, and Kenneth Scott. Carl Carlson, who was nominated from the floor, withdrew his nomination. Brown and Scott were eliminated by the first balloting on Monday morning, leaving Boggs and Dickson in a tie, each receiving 131 votes. Boggs was eliminated on the following day.

Boggs is from Shreveport, La., and is a member of Kappa Sigma. He is a varsity debater and a member of the Forensic Council, and also of the Student Council. He was second vice-president of the Y. M. C. A. last year. Brown hails from China. He is a member of the International Relations Club, and is active in track. He is a member of the Student Council, Sigma Upsilon, honorary literary society, the Red and Black Masquers, and the Glee Club.

The following were nominated for the offices of the two vice-presidents: Marion Bryant, Haywood Hill, Bill Kiesewetter, Hector McGeachy, Watson Street, and Monroe Wicker.

Spring Yowl Springs Out
Leap-Year Is Theme
Cygnet Song of Humor Magazine

“Then methought the air grew denser, Perfumed by an unseen censor.”

Taking its theme from the above quotation from Edgar Allen Poe, the spring Yowl made its unblushing appearance during the earlier part of the week. This is its next-to-last appearance as a humorous magazine, nothing was spared in the effort to make it a thesaurus of good, clean fun. The editors call special attention to the purity of the white spaces between their lines. Several radical changes in editorial policy have been effected.

This being leap year, the women have it, at least as far as the vernal theme goes. Also in the spring theme comes Harold Sugg’s heart-gripping story, entitled “Love and the Weather.” Treadway Purnell contributes love lyrics. The Davidsonian becomes the object of a biting satire labeled “Weakly” by the distinguished author A. Non Ymous. Sam Ryburn further enlivens this edition with a two-page spread of natural history. Also included is “Pore Maw,” a mountain melodrama by Dick Vowles, the perpetrator of the column known as “Musical Ramblings.” In a more literary vein is the poetry contributed by Arthur Haake, Bill McIlwinen, and Treadway Purnell.

Purnell and Gibson (Continued on Page 3)

HEADS Y.M.C.A.
WALTER DICKSON

DEBATERS ON TOUR
Team Meets Sewanee, Centre, And W. Virginia; W. & L. To Be Next Opponent

Harold Edwards and Wilbur Sugg, who are now on a tour through Tennessee, Kentucky, and West Virginia, have met three of their four scheduled opponents. They engaged Sewanee College in Tennessee on the eleventh, there being no decision due to the failure of the judges to show. On the thirteenth they met Centre College, Kentucky, and as yet the result hasn't been announced. They met West Virginia University Monday and will debate Washington and Lee University later.

The topic of their debate is Resolved: “That Congress should be permitted by a two-thirds majority vote to override a five to four decision of the Supreme Court declaring a law of Congress unconstitutional.” They are taking both the negative and affirmative sides of the question, taking one side at one college and the other at the next school. They will arrive here Saturday. Jimmie Salango and Bob Stewart, with “Charlie” Mauze as alternate, will leave upon the arrival of Sugg and Edwards for the northern debate tour. The northern trip will have another debate scheduled at Westminster College, Pa. They are also going to take both sides of the question. The Westminster debaters will be here on April 3, which makes two debates scheduled on the third.

Music Camp Obtains Captain J. C. Harper
One of the country’s outstanding high school band conductors, Captain James C. Harper, has accepted a position on the Davidson College music camp staff for this coming summer. Harper is a member of the American Band Masters Association and is on the executive Board of the School Band Association. His Lenoir high school band has won consistently in state and national band competitions. The director of the famous Lenoir high school band will give courses and lectures on band management. The members of the Davidson College band will serve as counselors for the camp-school which begins on June 23, and will extend through July 31. It is designed primarily for high school musicians, but will also be open to college students.

THREE DANCES ARE GIVEN BY JUNIOR CLASS
Tucker Band Features Sweet Tunes and Novelties; Trio Sings

SET IS ANNUAL EVENT
Junior Figure Is Part of Friday Night Formal

The Davidson Junior Class added another link to their chain of achievements with the successful presentation of their Junior Speaking Dances in the Charlotte Armory the weekend of March 13 and 14. The music for these dances was furnished by Tucker’s Band, featuring sweet tunes and novelties. The trio sang several numbers, including the orchestra’s theme song “Let Him Live, Let Him Love.” The dances were held with a Friday night formal, a Saturday afternoon tea dance, and a Saturday night informal. All of these were well attended by members of the student body and alumni. A figure featured the Friday night dance led by Russell Patterson, Phi Gamma Delta.

PHI BETA KAPPA BIDS ARE EXTENDED TO FIVE MEN
Kuhn, Wartman, Marchant, Shuford Chosen

LEADERS ARE SELECTED
Scholarship Fraternity Is Oldest in Country

Phi Beta Kappa, the oldest scholarship fraternity in the country, extended bids to five men at Davidson College. The men chosen are Kuhn, Wartman, Marchant, and Shuford.av r red 7 yelong + ’ president of the Junior Class, with 5 eunsues s ¢ He belongs to Vi Miss Mary Louise McLendon MULE Alpha, social fraternity, i Greensboro resident of Sigma Pi Sigma, and member of the fraternity council. Others in the future were Miss Mary Louise McLendon, the Hon. Pratt A. Kuhn, Yoca Alice Cowl Barringer, Charlotte, with David Sellars, Beta Theta Pi; Edith Carson, Rite; Miss Lane; and others.

A Duke Instructor Portrays European Conditions

Dr. Charles Weel, professor at Duke University, lectured last Monday on "The Social Conditions of Western Europe." His subject was based on his observations from a trip through Europe last summer. In his introduction, he reminded his audience that they should be interested in the affairs and conditions of Europe because Americans are really Europeans transplanted to this continent; and that the center of gravity in the social, political, and economical world still lies around the European cities of London, Paris, and Berlin.

In discussing the general conditions in Europe and the individual countries, he noted that France is marked by great political instability, particularly noticeable in the northern part of the country, and by fear of both internal revolution and war with Germany. At that time, northern France was enjoying prosperity while the southern part was still in a profound depression. In speaking of the Italo-Ethiopian problem, he said that this war had been common talk for some years (Continued on Page 3).

Bryant Seeks Public Office

Davidson Man Is Candidate For the House

J. Bryant, of the Class of 19 at Davidson College and now an attorney, has announced his candidacy for the Democratic nomination for the House of Delegates in West Virginia. He has been practicing law in Mercer County, WV, the county where he seeks the nomination. The announcement marks Mr. Bryant's debut into politics, nevertheless, both he and his family have long been closely connected with the Democratic party in a very active manner. Mr. Bryant has not yet announced his platform but expects to in a week or so.

“TEENY” LAFFERTY IS ELECTED FIRST VICE-PRESIDENT TUESDAY

PRESIDENT-ELECT

W. S. Edwards is a native of Charlotte; Lafferty is from Concord

PATTERSON IS PICKED

Students Name Warren Gaw as Secretary-Treasurer

“The Queen’s Husband” Is Famous Play of Robert Emmet Sherwood

W. S. Edwards, of Charlotte, was elected to the presidency of the Student Body for the 1936-37 session on the third ballot last Thursday. Letitia Currie and Bob Lindsay were also elected. Patterson, Charlotte, was elected vice-president; Warren Gaw, Greensboro, secretary-treasurer. Teeny Lafferty, of Concord, had been elected first vice-president on the initial ballot.

The Queen's Husband will be presented by the Black Masquers at 8 o'clock on Tuesday night, March 24, in Chamber Auditorium. Letitia Currie and Bob Lindsay have the main roles.

Wilbur S. Edwards debated Beta Theta Pi.

Stony Brook Headmaster Speaks on “Touchstone of the Ages”

The Touchstone of the Ages was delivered by the headmaster of Stony Brook. The voting gave Edwards the office.

Nominated for the vice-presidency were, in addition to Lafferty and Patterson, Wade Barrow of Denver, CO; Bill Wieséwetter of Philadelphia, PA; and Haywood Hill of Charlotte, NC.

Latin - Greek Meeting Held

Professors S. C. Bailey and E. A. Beatty Attend

Davidson College hosted a Latin-Greek meeting on March 12th from 10:30 to twelve. Professors S. C. Bailey and E. A. Beatty attended. The meeting discussed the courses in Latin and Greek offered at the institution and the number of students taking these courses. All persons actually teaching Greek and Latin were asked to attend the meeting, also any others enthusiastic.

Organist Will Close Series

Thane McDonald to Give Concert on April 17

ROTC Inspector Will Be Capt. D. L. Hardee

Capt. D. L. Hardee, a graduate of the University of Michigan, will inspect the ROTC. He has been awarded a Silver Star and Oak Leaf Clusters. He is a graduate of the Basic Course in the Infantry School and the Air Service Tactical School.