Page Eight THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 1936

Looking forward to friends who are coming for the weekend, the fraternity houses are preparing for one of the most exciting weekends ever. Decorations and other welcome arrangements are up to the fraternity house. A highlight of the past week was a visit by the Sigma Chi fraternity.

BETA THETA PI
Edwards went to Atlanta for a few days. Terry and Irwin went home to Virginia. Sellar and Pledge McKinnon attended the Davidson-Furman game in Greenville. John Winn spent the weekend at home.

PI KAPPA ALPHA
Anders, Parker Conner, Willy Moore, John H. W. D. Sky Cline, and others went to the Furman game. The fraternity is planning for a banquet to be held the night before the Homecoming dance. A feed will be held after the dance Friday night.

SIGMA ALPHA EPSILON
Perry Sloan, Pete Marchant, Yates Faison, Ken Engle, Henry Mills, and Jake Jacobs went to the Furman game. Alderman McClain attended the Carolina-State game. A feed was held Sunday night and the chapter was visited by Brother Archie Shuford of Hickory, who graduated last year.

KAPPA SIGMA
Carl Carlson, Ed Arthur, and Owen went to Greensboro for the weekend. George Nixon, Warren Gaw, and Glennville attended a number of alumni and fraternity events during Homecoming. Plans for decorations are underway to enhance the atmosphere of the fraternity house. The Pan-Hellenic Council will give a banquet for the Greeks during the fraternity weekend.

PHI DELTA THETA
Cliff Ramseur and Milton Myers went to the game. Luther attended the conference. Pete McKnight went to Shelby. The chapter is planning a feed after the dance and a banquet before the one on Saturday. Howard Covington and Tom Bree went to their homes for the weekend.

SIGMA PHI EPSILON
Andy Parker and Dick Vowles went to Red Springs. A Halloween party was held at the house Saturday night and the following girls were present: Jane Ellen Taylor, Lamanski, Barbara Shatzer, Virginia Buckley, Betsy Georgia Hurt, Kitty Graham, Jeanette Sherrill, Cornelia Lazarus, Annie Laura Donald, Mary Ann George, Virginia Lewis, Hughes, Brownie Pendleman, Kate Hall, Jean Orr, and Rachel Boylston.

GRADS RETURN
(Continued from Page 1)
At this time, the turning point in Davidson's history, we must be sure to carry over the things about Davidson College that are important as we enter her second century. Dr. J. C. Bailey, Professor of Greek here, will discuss the first topic, “What are some of the distinctive features of Davidson College that we must be sure to carry over into the second century of her history?” Dr. C. R. Wilcox, President of Darlington School, will present the second topic, “What are the things that we must add or subtract as we enter the second century?” Mr. F. R. Jackson, Treasurer of Davidson, will introduce the third topic, “What can the Alumni and friends of the College do during the Centennial period to help in the realization of these ideals?”

Tommy Thompson is in a Gastonia hospital recuperating from an appendicitis operation.

PHI GAMMA DELTA
Mrs. J. D. Gilliam of Washington, D. C., visited over the weekend.

WELCOME ALUMNI..... WHEN IN CHARLOTTE DINE AT THE LITTLE PEP WEST FOURTH STREET Remodeled, Enlarged, Air Conditioned

TOP: Fashionable brown or black scotch-grain leather oxford with smart wing tip. Full double sole; rubber heel. Sizes 7 to 12; A to D widths. $4.95

BELOW: Smooth black or brown calf oxford with rigid arch to insure genuine walking comfort. Rubber heel. Sizes 7 to 12; $4.95

Belk Bros. Co. STREET FLOOR SHOE DEPT. CHARLOTTE, N. C.

SPEAK AT TEACHERS’ MEETING
DR. MAXIE WOODRING, Professor of Education at Columbia University, and DR. FRAZER HOOD, of the Davidson faculty, pictured above, were the principal speakers on the program of the South Piedmont Teachers Association during the session on Friday, October 30. Dr. Woodring spoke at the banquet session held in Efird’s dining room in Charlotte. Dr. P. H. Gwynn was another member of the Davidson faculty to speak before the teachers. He made an attack upon vice and stressed action against such faults in public schools.

FACULTY CLUB HAS SPEAKERS
The Quadranglers’ Club, an organization of the Davidson faculty members, held its regular meeting last Thursday night, October 29, in their room in Chambers building. The program for the evening consisted of talks by three of the professors who spent the summer in travel abroad. Prof. F. L. Blythe, professor of Spanish, entertained this group with a colorful description of life in Rio de Janeiro, one of the most picturesque cities of the Western Hemisphere. Prof. Henry T. Lilly, professor of English, studied in Italy during the vacation months and told of Mussolini’s influence in Italy and the general attitude of the Italian people. Dr. G. R. Vowles, professor of German, spent most of the summer in Germany and presented to theGroup many under Hitler's regime: a comparison between Nazi Germany and the Germany of former days.

Humorous Errors Are Found In R.O.T.C. Papers

As the assistants first reviewed papers last week for mistakes in military tactics, they found a good deal more than they expected as far as spelling goes. On the Freshmen papers, the following mistakes were noted: “rifel” for rifle, “rist” for wrist, “grast” for grasp, “strait” for straight, “ballence” for balance, “balence” for balance, “barrel” for barrel, and “tuching” for touching. On the papers written by members of the junior class, the following words were murdered in the following way: “butt” for but, “cronological” for chronological, “to” for two, and “daganally” for diagonally. The Seniors showed their skill also by using “heal” for heel (of rifle), “musel” for muzzle, “aline” for align, and “hipps” for hips.

LARGE CROWD SEES (Continued from Page 5)

Thad Brock run of the memorable past. Upon taking the ball, Armfield twisted out to midfield, driving through a mass of purple jerseys and aided by beautiful downfield blocking, headed into Furman territory. Foster, fleet Hurricane back, overtook him and caught a free ride into the end zone, dragging from Armfield’s back. This time, Johnston closed the gap to 13-14. Davidson threatened again before the half ended during the closely contested second half, but was checked by intercepted passes and inopportune penalties. The Wildcats felt heavily the loss of Tom Corbin and Captain Dick Johnson, who are nursing injuries sustained in the Citadel game. The play of Ed Armfield, Fred Dennis, John Lee, and Bailey Williams was outstanding for the ‘Cats, but the impregnable defenses and the stellar work of Furman could not be denied. The aggressive Purple Hurricane of Captain King has sent the spirit for a Homecoming victory over Carolina soaring, and Richardson field will be the scene of a bloody battle Saturday.

FRATERNITIES (Continued from Page 4)

In their first game, the Phi Delts defeated the Kappa Sigs 18-0, and in their second game, they defeated the Betas 12-0. The work of the Ganier brothers, Keeswetter, and Vogler has been outstanding. The two Phi Epsilon’s scored the touchdowns in the first half against their opponents and were content to play on the defense during the second half. The final score was 12-0. Johnny Tice, Dan Iverson, and Henry Lyons played well for the winners.

DUKE & NORTH CAROLINA (Continued from Page 4)

This week will feature a number of outstanding games in the Southern conference. Three intersectional contests are numbered among them: N. C. State tackles Boston College, South Carolina entertains Villanova at Columbia, and Virginia journeys to Cambridge to do battle with Harvard.

Wake Faces Duke In North Carolina

Davidson hopes to upset the dopesters and spill N. C., as a feature of their big “Home-Coming” celebration, while Wake Forest entertains the Blue Devils from Duke at Wake Forest. If Duke and Carolina get by tomorrow, it looks like they will battle for the Southern Conference championship when they meet. Thus, their battles with the strong teams from Wake Forest and Davidson look to be the headliners for this week.

BASKETEERS START (Continued from Page 5)

There will be much competition in the forward ranks as five veterans: Armstrong, Barrow, Keeswetter, Peabody, and Yearwood, and two sophomores: Iverson and Sloan, will offer keen competition. Hancock, a center with a year’s varsity experience, will have his position contested by Lee, a sophomore, and Capt. Quick and Reid lead the guard candidates. As a whole, this year’s quint is an improvement on last, having more height and more experience. This year’s schedule is harder than last year’s, as almost all tilts are Southern Conference foes.

All the Popular Numbers in Stock—Call By and Play Them

PARKER-GARDNER CO.
Phonograph Records—Victor, Decca & Brunswick
118 West Trade, Charlotte, N. C.

PURE... and of finer texture than most anything that touches your lips...

We all agree on this... cigarette paper is important. For Chesterfield, we use the best paper that we can buy. It is called Champagne Cigarette Paper. It is made from the soft, silky fiber of the flax plant. It is washed over and over in clear, sparkling water. A lot of the pleasure you get in smoking Chesterfields is due to our using the right kind of cigarette paper. Chesterfield paper is pure, and it burns without taste or odor.

Remember this... two things make the smoking quality of a cigarette—the tobaccos and the paper. The Champagne cigarette paper on Chesterfields is tested over and over for purity, for the right burning quality. Another reason why Chesterfield wins.

© 1936, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.