THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 25, 1936

College Symphony Band Presents Program Here

Enthusiastic Crowd Attends Concert Given in Chambers Auditorium

TEN KEYS PRESENTED

“O Davidson” Played in Impressive Setting

On Friday, March 20, the Davidson College Symphonic Band under the direction of James Christian Pfohl presented a concert at
Davidson, and the crowd filling the auditorium gave evidence of their appreciation of the fine playing by their enthusiasm. Every
player in the band deserves credit, and Mr. Pfohl especially for the fine work that he has done in working
with the orchestra until it obtained perfect harmony.

The first portion of the concert was given over to the playing of difficult, serious, and beautiful numbers, while those
after intermission were lighter, some being rather humorous. The quartet composed of Paul Hudson, first tenor; John Allen, second tenor;
Charles Ramseur, baritone; and Donald Pfohl, bass, rendered three pieces during intermission, the last being as an encore.

The program is as follows:
“Wake, Awake! For Night Is Flying”—by Bach
The Bach harmonization of this beautiful chorale is perhaps the best known of the many settings given Nicholai’s original tune.

Overture “Ariane”—Louis Boyer
Ariane, so the story goes, was the sixth wife of Gilles de la Val, better known as “Bluebird,” a sinister,
medieval character. It was Ariane who tricked “Bluebird” into releasing his five former wives, and who brought destruction upon him.

“Three Kings”—Walter Smith
Walter Smith is one of the better-known band conductors in America today, and this number was originally played by him
and his two sons on cornets. Messrs. Helms, E. Parker, and Tillotson played this number on baritone horns, and this
was one of the highlights of the concert.

Introduction to Act III, “Lohengrin”—Wagner
An “introduction,” like an overture, is intended to prepare for something that is to follow. The introduction to the third
act of “Lohengrin” represents the happy excitement of those engaged in preparations for the wedding of Lohengrin and Elsa, which
occurs at the opening of Act III. As the excitement finally subsides, the warning is given that the bridal procession
is approaching. Then follows the famous Bridal Chorus.

INTERMISSION

Memories of Stephen Foster—Lucien Caillet
This arrangement is a musical and artistic accomplishment of outstanding merit, and Mr. Caillet has given the symphonic band a
wonderful piece of work.

(Continued on Page 6)

‘Come Clean’ Campaign Launched By YMCA

Wade Boggs is in charge of the annual “Come Clean” campaign now being carried on among the Charlotte grammar school
and high school boys by the Davidson Y. M. C. A. in conjunction with the Civitan Club of Charlotte. It
is a program of higher living which is being brought to the boys through speeches at school and group meetings,
and by pledges.

A delegation consisting of representatives of all four classes left the hill Tuesday morning at six-thirty A. M., to make
speeches at the high and grammar schools of Charlotte. After exhorting the boys to cleaner Christian living, they distributed cards
on which were pledges embodying the main principles of the program. Boys who cared to join in the campaign were
urged to sign these agreements and to keep the pledges.

This campaign is in line with others which have been conducted in various cities throughout the country, and carries forward
one of the most important aims of the Davidson Y. M. C. A.: namely, to be of service to those
who are not otherwise brought under such influences. It is reported that the work in Charlotte has met with an
enthusiastic reception from the boys concerned, and tentative plans are to carry it further. This is a somewhat different field
from that regularly entered by Y. M. C. A. deputations, and has aroused considerable interest on the part of those
engaged in it.

Richards Uses Faith For His Topic Sunday

Son of Davidson Professor Warns Against Tricks Of Thought

“Need for Wisdom” was the subject of Dr. James McDowell Richards’ sermon at vespers last Sunday night. Dr. Richards took
as the scripture Matthew 10:5-17, and from this used the sixteenth verse as his text. As this verse of scripture
speaks of being wise as serpents, Dr. Richards pointed out that The Master was the best example of that type
of wisdom, and then showed how He rebutted all of those who tried to trick Him. He then told of
the tricks of modern thought which tend to lead us from Christian truth.

The first of these he said is the false alternative. This is the trick used by those who say that
you must have either faith or reason. He pointed out how man must have faith in all lines of endeavor,
and then showed that man needs faith and reason.

Dr. Richards said that the second trick that was used was the delusion of the explanation. He said that men
point out that if we cannot explain something it is no longer natural. He showed how we accept many things
around us that we can't explain, but that they seem very natural.

The third trick that Dr. Richards referred to was speaking of religion with an epithet that is somewhat derisive. These
usually have no relation to religion, it was shown.

The last trick which was discussed by Dr. Richards was that of supposing that the majority of men must be
right. It was proven by several noted examples from history that the majority is often wrong.

Dr. J. M. Richards, the speaker, is the son of Dr. Charles M. Richards, professor of Bible at Davidson, and
is now the president of Columbia Theological Seminary. Dr. W. L. Lingle was in charge of the service.

McClure Will Lead Vespers

“Y” Secretary Will Speak at Next College Service, April 5th

Mr. Albert B. McClure, general secretary of the Davidson Y. M. C. A., will be the speaker at the weekly
vesper service on April 5. Mr. McClure has been active in assisting at these services and has spoken on a
number of occasions at the morning chapel hour, but this will be the first evening address that he has given
this year.

On Tuesday, April 7, Carl Pritchett will begin the annual spring lectures sponsored by the Y. These will be held
at the chapel hour on Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday mornings of that week, the customary schedule being altered to allow
more time for his addresses.

On Easter Sunday, April 12, the Easter Concert of Music will be held, under the direction of Professor James C.
Pfohl, director of Music, and Mr. McClure. At this concert the Davidson bands will play, and the setting and scripture
reading will be arranged by the Y. M. C. A.

Sigma Pi Sigma Has Interesting Meeting

Sigma Pi Sigma, national honorary Physics fraternity, held its last meeting on Monday night, March 16. Five men were initiated
at that time. They were J. A. C. Andrew, W. D. Covington, M. B. Crisp, S. S. Henry, and M.
L. Lafferty. After the initiation, the regular business meeting was held. J. P. Moore and W. A. Douglas gave talks.
Moore’s talk was on “Neutrons and Their Production.” In it he explained the principle of the cyclotron, an apparatus for
the production of neutrons. It is said that neutrons open a new phase of artificial nuclear disintegration or splitting of
the atom, and also transmutation of elements. Douglas made a talk on “Current Events and Physics.”

New Books In Collection Led By Biography

New Volumes Include Biography, Politics, Drama, and History

BIRD BOOK OUTSTANDING

Study of Nazi Regime Presented by Schuman

The library has recently added the following very interesting books to its collection. These books are written on diverse subjects
and for every one you find dull to you there are two that will attract you.

“The Gentleman From New York”—A Life of Roscoe Conkling by Donald Barr Chidsey, published by the Yale University Press. This
is the story of Roscoe Conkling, the man who ran New York State, and sometimes the rest of the states
too, in the eccentric days of reconstruction. Other figures of the period like Grant and Blaine, Garfield, and Hayes have
been drawn full-length. Here is a political boss who never made a cent at it, a Senator with whom the
opposition never trifled. This is also a story of the whole post-civil war retinue of victory and carpetbags."Nazi Dictatorship" is
written by Frederick L. Schuman, Ph.D., and published by Alfred A. Knopf. It is a thorough history of the Nazi
party, a study of Hitler and the personalities of the leaders, a detailed survey of the methods by which they
attained power, and an analysis of its significance to Germany and the world outside. For the layman and the student,
there is no other work so informative and illuminating on this grave subject. Dr. Schuman is an Assistant Professor of
Political Science at the University of Chicago.

"Birds of America" is one of the very best books on the birds of North America ever published. W. Gilbert
Pearson is the editor-in-chief and was aided by John Burroughs and Edward H. Forbush. All of these men are very
best in the field of ornithology. One of the many attractive features of this volume is the collection of 1060
full-page color plates by Louis Agassiz Fuertes that bird lovers most eagerly seek. The book contains a concise statement of
the scientific data regarding every bird, a readable account of its characteristics and home life, and ample and accurate illustrations
in color. It is a beautiful and valuable bird book.

"A Treasury of The Theatre" by Burns Mantle and John Gassner and published by Simon and Schuster is an anthology
of great plays from Aeschylus to Eugene O'Neill. The features of this volume: 1. 34 complete unexpurgated plays; 2. 1040
pages printed in large, legible type; 3. A list of hundreds of the world's great plays covering the whole history
of the drama: Classic, Oriental, Medieval, Elizabethan, German, French, Russian, Scandinavian, and American; 4. An extensive bibliography planned and designed
for quick reference.

"The Romance of Archaeology" by R. V. D. Magoffin and Emily C. Davis, published by the Garden City Publishing Company,
emphasizes the sheer excitement of digging up evidences of past civilizations, which may at any time make necessary the rewriting
of history. In this book are sketched the recent discoveries in the field of archaeology, which will probably add another
1,000 years to the story of the race. Though the authors are qualified scientists, the style is popular and bright,
says the Scientific American.

"Elinor Wylie: The Portrait of an Unknown Lady" by Nancy Hoyt and published by Bobbs Merrill is a biography of
one of America’s little-known female poets and writers.

Ph.D.’s are almost certain of jobs today, says Northwestern University’s placement bureau, with starting salaries averaging $200 monthly.

SHOE REPAIRS
BUFF SHOE SHOP
"SUDDEN SERVICE"
Joe Overmyer

Town Tattle
To Lead Music At Y Services

Dr. C. K. Brown was elected new president to succeed Major Cochran at the faculty group meeting last Tuesday. Dr.
Brown is the co-pastor of the church and was a guest during the meeting.

Mrs. Heath Whittle was elected president, Mrs. Grier Marrow vice-president, and Mrs. Eugene Morrison secretary-treasurer at the North Carolina Education
Association meeting in Raleigh on March 20-21.

Mrs. M. Moffett had as her guest during the week her sister, Mrs. R. J. Crawford, of New York City.
Miss Lena Moffett, of Farmville, Va., was also a guest.

Mrs. Frank Crawford, of Farmville, Va., and Miss Lena Moffett, of Florida, were guests of Mrs. Moffett on Tuesday morning.

Mrs. Brown was hostess to the club Friday afternoon. Mrs. Lingle had as her guests during the week her sisters,
Mrs. South and Mrs. Taylor, of Greensboro, and Mrs. Taylor, of Lexington, Va.

Mrs. Shewmake and Mrs. Harris entertained the Book Club at their regular meeting in the Civic League. Maude Vinson spoke
on the School of Poetry, and a musical program was rendered by Miss Babcock, Miss Harris, and Miss Purdy.

Mr. and Mrs. Douglas and Miss Douglas, of Columbia, S.C., were weekend guests in the dormitory.

Mr. Buckner and Mr. John Darke, medical students, are spending their spring vacation with their parents in Davidson.

Mr. Dickson, of Montreat, and Mr. Dutt, of Gastonia, were guests of Mrs. Alice Hood. Dr. Hood will return to
New York City to spend the spring with her daughter.

Dr. and Mrs. Cumnock have moved into the house built by Dr. Cumnock.

Mr. and Mrs. Pleasants have returned to Chapel Hill, where their daughter, Mrs. Pleasants, resides.

Spanish Clubs Present Brief Farce, Mar. 18
Sigma Delta Pi and the Spanish Club presented a brief farce at their meeting last Wednesday night at 9 o'clock
in Shearer Hall. The play was written by Day Purnell and directed by Professor Bob Blinn. The plot revolves around
a Spanish teacher who, by using hard exercises and work, makes the pupils receive high grades and release from detention.
The teacher threatens the students to speak only Spanish, and upon the completion of the statement, the class immediately begins
speaking English. The play was well-portrayed by the students.

Judge Praises Book By Mack Alumnus
Edits Complete Statement of Law

Third "Screech" of Yowl Smites Eyes of Campus
Humor Magazine Appears on Time; More Poetry Published
RIDICULES DAVIDSONIAN
"Thinly Veiled Insults" Are Returned Thinner

Students who hoped that "The Yowl" had emitted its final mournful wail were bitterly disappointed last week when that amalgamation
of literature and humor made its appearance for 1936. It wasn't even late. A cover by Hal Overton depicting a
young lady in a pensive mood dreaming of her Romeo, accompanied the following mimicry of a famous poem: "In the
spring, a young lady's thoughts turn to thoughts of love."

Under the title, "Weakly," one may find an article intended as a satire on the publication because of "thinly veiled
hints which have been hurled at the 'Yowl' in recent issues of 'The Davidsonian'." It seems the office of a
typical small college newspaper merely shows how little people know about the importance of the student publication.

A new feature of this issue was the verse "Black Goggles" by Haake, a nihilist poet who has seen life
and not liked it (at least not in print). Just below that beautiful quote on the title page about "The
censor is denser," one may find a poem by Poe.

Leroy Blackwelder will attend the dinner given by the American Bar Association in honor of Col. Mack.
