Freedom Is the Theme of Thompson’s Sermon

Dr. Thompson Emphasizes Influence Everyone Exerts On Others

YOUTH WANTS FREEDOM

True and False Freedom Contrasted By Minister

“There are two kinds of freedom: true and false; false freedom, when we are free to do as we like, and true freedom, when we are free to do as we ought.” Thus did Dr. W. T. Thompson conclude and summarize his sermon last Sunday evening at Vespers. Taking “If the Son therefore shall make you free, ye shall be free indeed.” John 8:36, as his text, Dr. Thompson preached a very practical sermon on the subject of personal freedom.

He said, “We are all thrown together in one crucible, life touching life” in order to emphasize the second point that he made. That point was there is no such thing as absolute personal independence, but that we all exert some influence somewhere. Beginning with an incident that had occurred to him in connection with another youth whose cry, “I want to be free” echoed the cry of many modern youths, he then proceeded to prove that just as we are governed in our physical actions by the laws of science and nature, so are we governed in our mental and moral actions by laws. There are many laws such as those given us by nature, those made for us by legislative bodies, and those discovered by us, that we cannot break without being punished for it. However, he stated that we are punished by our sins and not for them. Such punishment is inescapable.

Following several very apt illustrations which carried his point directly to the center of the problem, Dr. Thompson brought his discussion of the relation of laws to freedom by stating: “To be free we must be obedient to all laws.” Dr. Thompson pursued the topic of our influence, consciously or unconsciously exerted, on the lives of those close to or distant from us, with more striking examples from his own and others’ experience. Cautioning us to always remember that somebody has taken us for his ideal in life and that we can never bury the influence for a single moment, he told of a letter he had received from a man in the Philippines who had taken him, Dr. Thompson, as his ideal, and how he had been helped. In sharp contrast, the story of the down-trodden man pointing to the picture of his college chums on the wall and saying, “That was the man who taught me to drink!” had a very powerful effect. Just so there is influence for bad as there is for good.

The story of the prodigal son was retold very poignantly to illustrate the effect of our apparently self-related actions on those to whom we are dear. Disclosed was the truth that when everyone else was gone there was still God the Father to whom we are responsible for our deeds. The story of the American at the North Pole, who walked out into the snow to save his own life at the sacrifice of his comrade's, as contrasted with the story of the Britisher at the South Pole who walked out into the snow to save the lives of his comrades at the sacrifice of his own, was used dramatically to drive home the conception of freedom with relation to a man’s desires. He left it to us to judge whether the man under the command of his lower desires or the man under the command of his higher desires is the freer man. Dr. Thompson closed his sermon with this interpretation of the text: “If man takes Christ as his ideal then he shall be free indeed.”

Dr. William T. Thompson is professor of religious education at the Union Theological Seminary and a graduate of Davidson.

Major Seifert Talks Before O.R.C. Groups

Major Charles W. Seifert, assistant professor of Military Science and Tactics, left the campus last Wednesday, February 26, on a short lecture tour before groups of Reserve Officers. On Wednesday evening Major Seifert spoke at a meeting of the Rockingham Group School for Reserve Officers on the subject, “The Mission of the Infantry in Panama.” Thursday evening he spoke to a similar group in Charlotte on “The Rifle Platoon in Attack.” He spoke on Friday evening to the Lincolnton Group School on “The Mission of the Infantry in Panama.”

New Men Are Initiated Into Fraternities

Seven Out of Nine Social Fraternities Hold Formal Initiations

Of the nine social fraternities on the hill, seven have already held their formal initiations, and the other two will be held in the very near future. On Saturday, February 29, the Phi Alpha Chapter of Beta Theta Pi formally initiated nine new members: Bob Benfield, Sink Grove, W. Va.; John Ransom, Julian Squires, Charlotte; Edward Steere, Asheboro; David Stocks, Reidsville; James Terry, Peterson, W. Va.; Sam Walker, Mt. Gilead; and David Warden, Johnson City, Tenn. Among the alumni present at the ceremonies were: Dr. Walter L. Lingle, Mr. J. C. Winn, and Mr. John Smith, of Greenville, S.C.; Professor Johnson, of Davidson; and Mr. Latimer McClintock, of Charlotte.

The North Carolina Chapter of Sigma Alpha Epsilon will hold its formal initiation on Thursday, March 5, in the Phi Hall, at 8:30 P.M. This initiation will be followed by a feed at the house. The fourteen pledges who are to be initiated are: Mark Cauble, Winston-Salem; T. M. Dunn, E. A. Erwin, Laurinburg; N. O. B. Edgerton, Orangeburg, S. C.; J. K. Florence, Kilgore, Texas; L. W. Kornegay, Rocky Mount; J. A. Latimer, Washington, D. C.; P. S. Marchant, Greenville, S. C.; N. B. McCullack, Elizabethtown; Kenneth McLean, Lumberton; W. C. Miller, Laurens, S.C.; P. A. Sloan, Durham; N. D. Whitelock, Charlotte; and E. M. Willingham, Macon, Ga.

The Delta Chapter of Kappa Sigma will initiate its five pledges on Thursday night, March 5, at the fraternity lodge. The men to be initiated are as follows: W. D. Furgess, Hartsville, S.C.; W. R. Gaw, Greensboro, S. C.; S. T. Henderson, Charlotte; R. L. Pittman, Fayetteville; L. L. Young, Shelby.

Town Tattle

Prof. and Mrs. H. E. Fulcher attended the wedding of Mr. Fulcher’s brother, Dr. Oscar Fulcher, at Princeton, W. Va., Tuesday morning, March 3rd.

Miss Elizabeth Shewmake, who is a sophomore at Cornell University, has recently been initiated into the Chi Omega Sorority.

Mrs. Harriet Sample was the guest of honor at a birthday dinner Monday, February 24th, at the home of her daughters, Misses Lucy, Annie, and Grace Sample. An out-of-town guest was a nephew, Mr. D. H. Sample of Fort Pierce, Florida.

Mrs. Nelson Mebane has returned from Dublin, West Virginia, where she visited several days with relatives.

The World’s Day of Prayer was observed Friday morning, February 28th, at the Presbyterian Church. Mrs. W. P. Cumming was the leader of the service, which was held at 10:00 A.M.

Mr. and Mrs. F. D. Hobart and their children spent Sunday in Greensboro with Mr. and Mrs. Harry Smith. Mr. Smith is an alumnus of Davidson.

Miss Dorothy Finlayson entertained the Kiltkare Club Thursday evening, February 27th.

Mrs. Price Gwynn read a paper on child psychology at the meeting of the Twentieth Century Club, which was held Friday afternoon at the home of Mrs. S. W. Stough.

Mrs. A. W. Metcalf, of Denver, Colorado, is a guest in the home of Mr. and Mrs. E. J. Erwin. Mrs. Metcalf will spend the coming weekend with her son, Pete, who is a freshman at Washington and Lee.

Mr. Phifer Erwin was host to the wrestling squad Monday evening at dinner at the home of his parents.

Educators Request Olympians Recalled

(BY Associated Collegiate Press)

Newark, N.J. (ACP)—Forty American educators, presidents of colleges in 27 states, have joined in a request to the Amateur Athletic Union of the United States and the American Olympic committee for withdrawal of American participation in the 1936 Olympic games in Berlin. Announcement of the educators’ stand was made by Frank Kingdon, president of Dana College, Newark. It was accompanied by a statement setting forth reasons for requesting American withdrawal and signed by the forty college presidents.

“It is our considered judgment,” the statement says, “based upon the record of events that have transpired in Germany for the past two and a half years, that the inequalities and discrimination practiced against Jews, Catholics, Protestants, labor, Masons, and all independents are perpetuated in the field of sports and in the Olympic games.

“We believe further that these games are being used by Nazi Germany as an instrument for the propagation of her ideals, which represent the destruction of democratic and progressive society...

“We believe that the Americans should refuse to take part in the games.”

A bell cast by Paul Revere is used to wake students at Colby College in Maine. Dr. Jose Antonio Lopez, former Ohio University student, may be the next governor of Puerto Rico.

“Sonny, have you asked God to make you a good boy?” “Yes, Dad, and I put in a good word for you and mom, too.”

Cars For Rent
GULF GAS AND OIL
M. P. Henderson

EUMENEAN GROUP TO MEET WEEKLY

Under the leadership of new officials, the Eumenean Literary Society has initiated several changes to ensure better and more uniform meetings. The society will now meet every Tuesday evening at 7:15 in the Phi Hall. At their meeting on February 25, a new efficiency committee of three men was appointed. This committee now consists of Turner, and former presidents, Dees and Harlan. Their main duty is to look after the conducting of the meetings and to iron out any irregularities so that the future meetings will be held with more smoothness and uniformity.

At their meeting on the 25th they were entertained by speeches from Joe Dees and John Moseley. Joe Dees gave a talk on the subject of suicides. He gave illustrations of the many suicides that are committed each week in New York that we never hear about, some of them being committed from the top of skyscrapers and others under the surface of the earth in subway tunnels. John Moseley gave a talk on the life, dialect, and customs of the hobos.

The society will send out invitations to prospective members today. The members of the Davidson Eumenean Literary Society have been invited to attend a joint meeting of the Davidson and Queens-Chicora orders to be held at an unannounced date this week.

Best Quality Goods at Lowest Prices
SOUTHERN 5 & 10c STORE
Everything A Specialty

LIBRARY HISTORY BY REPORTER

Libraries of Three Departments Consolidate Into One In Year 1886

GROWS PHENOMENALLY

Over 30,000 Books Added to the Library

(This is the last in a series of two articles on the library)

By RICHARD VOWLES

A former article concerned the beginning of the Davidson College library and the two literary society libraries. In this article, the library history is completed up to the present time.

Libraries Consolidated

In 1886, at the suggestion of Professors Lodge and Barringer, of the faculty, it was decided to consolidate all three libraries. This was done, with the book cataloguing being handled by students. The librarians of the organized library were to be students also. They were to be appointed by the literary societies every two years.Years. J.E. Smith of Conyers, Georgia, was the first librarian under this new system.

Number of Books Increased

At this time, the number of books had increased to some 4,000. It was then that the library became a depository for the United States government to receive published documents after 1857.

Reading Room Moved

In 1902, the reading room was moved to the corner of the then newly completed Shearer Hall, and a student library fee of four dollars was added to the regular tuition. During this period, many gifts in the way of book collections were made to the College by friends.

The New Library Building

Quoting from Miss Cornelia Shaw's book, “Davidson College:” “The gift of Andrew Carnegie of twenty thousand dollars for a library building became available in 1909, after an endowment of $20,000 had been secured. The ground for the building was broken amid the cheers of onlooking students in September 1909, and the building was completed in June of the following year. The library had been housed in Chambers room where, during winter months, the librarian wore a muffler and rubber shoes and kept the windows open because it was warmer outside than inside.”

Full-Time Librarian Appointed

In 1907, Miss Cornelia Shaw had been appointed as the first full-time librarian. It was then that the departments of the College had been allotted set sums for the enlargement of their individual libraries. During this time, the building housed temporarily the administration offices and the faculty meeting rooms.

Assistant Librarian Secured

In 1929, Miss Julia Massmore was secured to act as assistant librarian under Miss Shaw. At the present time, due to the efficient work of these librarians and the various College departments, the library consists of 39,075 books.

Miss Shaw Replaced

Chalmers Davidson was elected in February 1936 to replace Miss Shaw as librarian. Miss Shaw will serve as librarian emeritus.

Baker University hopes to build a stadium with the help of a penny chain letter!

For fifty years, the Library...

Cinematic Comments

Drill Today? See Map in Lobby of Chambers

Wednesday
The Prisoner of Shark’s Island
Warner Baxter plays the part of Mudd who, because he set Wilkes Booth’s leg, is accused of aiding in the assassination of President Lincoln and is sentenced for life in the prison at Fort Jefferson in Florida. Able support furnished by Gloria Stuart.

Thursday and Friday
Rose-Marie
The picture everybody has been waiting for. Nelson Eddy and Jeanette MacDonald create another great picture. Their duet in “The Indian Love Call” and the stirring song of the mounted police, sung by three hundred men led by Nelson Eddy.

Saturday — Preview
Murder Mystery
Reginald Denny, Frances Drake, and Gail Patrick are involved in a murder mystery enacted on a movie set. It is another thriller which will keep you guessing until the end of the picture.

Sunday and Monday
The Ghost Goes West
As Murdock Glourie, dies a coward and is forced to haunt the family castle. Playing the role of the last of the Glouries also, Donald falls in love with Jean Parker along with a rich American who bought the family castle.

MARKSMEN TO ENTER MATCH

Although Davidson placed third from the end in Fourth Corps Area, Miss Cochran is pleased with the team’s scores. Each performing some function identified with his particular game. Next came a chorus of nutty dolls from the Littlefield Follies, led by the pawn-like Maurice Peabody. They writhed and cavorted in perfect rhythm and have since turned down several offers from Hollywood, reports say.

When the rafters had ceased to ring, the A.T. announced a duet between the “Lochinvar of melody, Les Johnson, and Skeeter of Ten Skinny Stevens.” The lad at the piano played “Alone,” while the vocalists sang “Alone at a Table for Two.” Miss Cochran was pleased with the way the team composed itself, and the festivities were adjourned to the intramural field, where at four o’clock, the featured act of the initiation took place, an egg-rolling contest. With the aid of an able proboscis and nimble fingers, Fields Young managed to edge his way over the line first and received, as a reward, the contents of the egg he had rolled.

Washington Weather Bureau Predicts Conditions Five Days Ahead

INTERPRETATION EASY
Charts May Someday Aid In Planning Week-Ends
By HECTOR McGEACHY

Certain persons, namely those optimistic neckbenders who are continually meandering around (on drill days) gazing up into the sky to see if dark foreboding clouds are forming in the heavens ready to pour forth rain upon the campus, including the drill field, can now secure more positive and less exhausting prophecy from maps predicting the daily weather conditions in the United States, now posted in the lobby of Chambers building.

No special insight into map readings is needed to interpret these forecasts of the weather. Anyone with good eyesight, even the rubbernecks, can read them very readily. As you first glance at the maps, your eyes light on some rather large shaded areas which indicate the precipitation of one-tenth inch or more for rainfall. And what are those dark circles? They indicate the localities that will have cloudy weather. Rain and snow are represented by the letters R and S respectively. The red lines represent temperature zones, and the dark lines show the barometric zone.

These maps arrive here from Washington, D.C. thirty hours after being printed and show the weather conditions for four or five days in advance. The weather bureau states that it can, with an accuracy of 85 percent, predict the weather for 60 hours. Snow, rain, sleet, and the unusual general weather conditions of the past few months, which have inundated the infirmary with patients and efficiently evacuated our pockets of all available cash in buying supposedly cold preventatives, are probably caused by the rapidity with which we are approaching the maximum of sunspots of 1939. This from an authentic source. For quite a while it has been accepted that the sunspots affect the temperature and weather conditions on the earth. These are periodic, ranging from 10 to 11 years. It is believed that when the weather is exceptionally cold, the sunspots are at a minimum, and the period is 35 years.

There at Davidson exists a shorter period of forecasting, particularly in the winter months, as the “highs” (cooler weather with descending air) and the “lows” (warmer with ascending air) travel faster in these months. Normally it takes six days for a “high” or “low” to travel across the states from the west; however, in the winter months only three or four days are needed. The normal path of our weather change is from the west, but most of our cold weather comes down from Canada, coming in through the Great Lakes or further west. The majority of our storms come in from the Gulf region, and a few off the east coast of Florida.

As spring approaches, these weather prophecies should help these weaker specimens of the male who make well-trodden paths to the neighboring female institutions every weekend to plan their trips in accord with the mood of the weather. Who knows but what Davidson men in the future...

(Continued on Page 6)

PRESENTS IN THE HOME
Refreshment Time

ON THE AIR
RAY NOBLE and His Orchestra
with supporting cast of stars
EVERY WEDNESDAY NIGHT
COLUMBIA NETWORK
(Station) (Time)
WBT—9:30 P.M.