Overmyer Lead Spring Services Begin April 7, Carl Pritchett and the Rev. he DMavidsontan ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS New
Staff Named For College Paper; Athletic Council Balloting Ends Major Elections VOL. XXIII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., MARCH 25,
1936 NUMBER 21 Jim Morton Will Edit The Davidsonian TOM CORBIN CHOSEN IN ATHLETIC COUNCIL ELECTIONS TUESDAY Wade Barrow and
Fred Dennis Are Elected Vice-Presidents THREE BALLOTS TAKEN Iverson and Tice in Final Ballot for Secretary-Treasurer Tom Corbin, of Fremont,
was elected president of the Athletic Association for the coming year, as a result of the student body voting held
on Tuesday morning. Tom Corbin defeated Dick Johnson, of Charlotte, on the final ballot. Wade Barrow, of Denver, Colo., and
Fred Dennis, of Concord, were elected first and second vice-presidents, respectively. The Athletic Council nominated the following juniors for presidents:
Ed Armfield, John Armstrong, Dick Cathey, Tom Corbin, George Coway, Jim Dickson, Walt Dickson, Bill Faison, Joe Hunter, Dick Johnson,
Jim Johnson, Ken Knorr, John Lee, Jelly McClellan, Polk Moffett, Charlie Parker, Maurice Peabody, Bill Quick, Charlie Roever, and Han
Hancock. All juniors who made varsity letters were eligible for nomination. The list was narrowed down to five candidates after
the first ballot, leaving Ed Armfield, Tom Corbin, Joe Hunter, Dick Johnson, and Ken Knorr. The final ballot for Secretary-Treasurer,
which had not been completed at press time, will be run-off between Iverson and Tice. After the Monday morning voting,
all were eliminated except Tom Corbin and Dick Johnson. The following sophomores were nominated for first and second vice president:
Wade Barrow, Fred Dennis, and Bob Blue. (Continued on Page 6)

Dr. Foreman Addresses Rotary Club on Change in Moral Ideals Kenneth J. Foreman, professor of Bible and philosophy, spoke to
the Charlotte Rotary Club at its regular luncheon held Tuesday, March 17th, on the “Change in Moral Ideals.” In his
talk, Dr. Foreman took the occasion to defend such men as Frank Graham, originator of the famous Graham plan for
the control of intercollegiate athletics, who have been the objects of a great deal of bitter criticism because of their
progressive experiments in an attempt to better the present social conditions. He said that everyone is looking at another and
asking “What ought we to do?” and “What is right and what is wrong?” There are those, he continued, who
hold that there is no right and wrong and that we have arrived at a pinnacle so that any move
we make is progress. “Moral change is not progress without change. Change is progress, however, when it comes in the
general direction of the welfare of all people. Progress is when what you believe to be right moves a little
closer to what is right. This is accomplished only by experimentation, and not with shouting at your neighbors, and pulpit
thunder and lightning. “Not all experiment is wise. The moral experiments of college students are so often experiments that have
been tried over and over.” (Continued on Page 3)

Pictured above is Tom Corbin of Fremont, who will head the Athletic Association the coming year.

MASQUERS GIVE THREE ACT PLAY “The Queen’s Husband” Is Title of Dramatic Club’s Second Effort By FITZHUGH DADE On Tuesday
evening, the Red and Black Masquers presented the second full-length, or 3 act play of the year, “The Queen’s Husband.”
The play was presented in Chambers Auditorium at 8 o'clock, and drew a large crowd. The consensus of opinion was
that it was a worthy successor to the last play, “Whistling in the Dark.” The action of the play calls
for a great deal of dress-uniform display. The imported costumes were considered by many to have added a significant amount
of attraction to the play, which would otherwise have depended solely on the imagination of the spectator for any faithful
setting. Currie as the Princess, and Letitia as the Queen, brought to the Davidson stage a quality of acting which
many thought remarkable; and the comic element was produced in its fullest glory by C. K. Malone. It is thought
by some of the closest observers that Malone may have been born for the part he played, since he excited
such a lively interest among those in the audience who were fiercely in favor of his character. (Continued on Page
4)

DR. P. H. GWYNN ATTENDS MEET Professor Goes to Meeting of Committee of Nat’l Council Professor P. H. Gwynn of
the Davidson faculty is in New York for several days this week. Professor Gwynn is a member of the Fellowship
Committee of the National Council on Religion in Higher Education and he made the trip especially to attend its meeting.
The Fellowship Committee has the difficult task of selecting candidates to be recommended to the Board of Directors of the
Council for graduate work in their respective fields. If these candidates are approved by the Board, they then will be
awarded fellowships for post-graduate study in institutions noted for such work. Professor Gwynn returned to the campus Monday morning after
having finished his part of the work.

COLLEGE ORGANIZATION TOURING SOUTH Band and Quartette to Appear In Leading Cities of Four States SPONSORED BY ALUMNI Feature of
Trip to Be Broadcast From Atlanta The Davidson College Symphonic Band and its vocal quartette left Monday afternoon for a
ten-day concert tour of the South, during which programs will be presented in leading cities of North Carolina, South Carolina,
Georgia, and Tennessee. The tour is sponsored by alumni associations and other organizations along the route. The program to be
presented in concert will feature Julian Helms, Jack Tillotson, Paul Hudson, Charles Allen, and others. In addition to the regular
program, a number of popular selections and lighter marches have been arranged. A recently announced feature will be a broadcast
from Atlanta. (Continued on Page 2)

CHAPMAN ILL Student Sculptor Enters Charlotte Art Exhibit Carl Chapman, president of the student body, left the college and his
duties Wednesday, March 18th, to go to Atlanta, Ga., to have his appendix removed. On Thursday, March 19th, Chapman was
operated on, and is now recovering from the operation rapidly. Before leaving, Chapman stated that his case of appendicitis was
acute and that he had to undergo an emergency operation. He further stated that he had had a case of
appendicitis for some time and that he wished to have it performed at that time. The operation was performed in
the Georgia Baptist Hospital, Atlanta, Ga.

Field Horine Reported As Doing Well in Reich Word comes from the University of Heidelberg that Field Horine, formerly of
Davidson College, is completing his junior year at that institution and is making a very favorable impression on those who
come into contact with him. Horine attended Davidson College last year as a sophomore. He plans to finish his year
of study at the university and then return to the United States in August. Professor Dr. Adler, who is in
charge of the “Auslandabteilung,” is the dean of foreign students. Part of his letter reads as follows: “We rejoice to
be able to inform you that Mr. Horine is carrying out his plan of studies in a very zealous and
conscientious manner and that we have come to know in him a worthy and diligent student.” Horine passed the Christmas
holidays with a German friend.and his family in the little town of Beckum, in Westphalia. He spent spring vacation, which
comes between the semesters, on a ski tour through the Austrian Alps with five other students.

Conducts The Annual Spring Services Here
Davidson Alumnus and Former “Y” Secretary Will Lead Revival
MUSICAL IS STRESSED
The Rev. Overmyer Will Have Charge of Music

Carl Ruffin Pritchett will return to the Davidson campus as the speaker for the services, and the Rev. Joe L.
Overmyer will have charge of the music at the two services. Both men attended the Union Theological Seminary in Richmond,
Va., and served as a team. Pritchett graduated with the class of 1930. After the completion of his academic work
here, he turned to serve the student body. He was president of the Athletic Council, a member of the “Y”
Cabinet, a member of the Forensic Council, a member of the “D” Club, captain of the basketball team, and a
member of the varsity football squad. He was also a member of Omicron Delta Kappa and Alpha Epsilon Delta.

From Davidson, he went (Continued on Page 2)

Students are reminded to take examinations before leaving for vacation. They must report to the Dean's office before noon Thursday
to secure a statement to that effect. The fee is $2.50 for those who missed their regular examinations because of
illness. They are not required to pay the fee, but they must secure a statement to that effect from the
Dean's office before noon Thursday.

CHANGES FOR ’36-’37 SHOWN IN CATALOG
The catalogue of Davidson College for the one hundredth session, including announcements for 1936-37, has appeared. In this catalogue, the
numbers of courses have been changed. Another change is in the length of the Christmas and Spring holidays. Next year,
one day will be taken from the Christmas holidays and added to the Spring holidays. This makes the latter a
full week long. The catalogue is the February number of the monthly Davidson College Bulletin and is published by the
College.

ALPHA EPSILON DELTA ADMITS FIFTEEN MEN
National Group Initiates Members of Davidson Medical Fraternity
SMITH HEADS SOCIETY
Installation Celebrated at Formal Banquet

The Pi Delta Alpha pre-medical fraternity met Monday night, March 23, for the purpose of initiating its members into the
national organization of the same type, Alpha Epsilon Delta, to which the local fraternity has recently been accepted. The initiation
of the fifteen members took place at a formal banquet held at 7:15 o'clock Monday evening. Pi Delta Alpha was
founded at Davidson in 1931. The local fraternity is based on grades and interest in medical studies. The members initiated
into Alpha Epsilon Delta are C. Gordon, W. Wartman, and others.

PROF. HONORED
SUGG IS RUNNER-UP; OTHERS ELIMINATED IN FIRST BALLOTING
New Editor of Weekly
J.T. Morton, of Bullock, will be the Editor of “The Davidsonian” for the coming year.

DEBATORS RETURN HOME
Sugg-Edwards Team Out-By Two Others
Edwards and Harold Prowl

Chemical Fraternity Gives Bids To Seven
Gamma Sigma Epsilon, the chemical fraternity, elected seven new members. The fraternity was founded in 1919 under Dr. H.B. Arbuckle
and has grown to have chapters throughout the State and the National Council of the fraternity. Professor O.J. Thies holds
the office of Grand Keeper of the Kult, and Dr. D.H. Howard is Grand Recorder.

Dr. W.P. Cumming will work on PMLA Volumes
The March number of the Publications of the Modern Language Association of America (PMLA), just off the press, brings news
of an honor accorded to Dr. W.P. Cumming of Davidson College.

WALKER WILL SHOW WORKS
Student Body President Undergoes Appendectomy
Mr. Walker, the student body president, underwent an appendectomy. He plans to enter his work in the exhibition, though he
had not decided exactly which pieces to display. At least four of his sculptures, made during the past several years,
will be on exhibition. The pieces will be judged, and the owners of the winning ones will receive cash prizes
or honorable mention, according to the merit of the work.

JUNIORS EDITORS PICKED
Six Men Chosen on Basis of Two Years’ Work
Jim Morton, of Bullock, was named editor of the 1936-37 DAVIDSONIAN, in a run-off election held last Thursday. He led
his nearest opponent, Harold Sugg, by a wide margin. Balloting began at the period when the candidates were presented. Morton
and Sugg tied for first place in the initial balloting. Morton was elected editor-in-chief, and Sugg was the runner-up.

GAL MAN IS KILLED FRIDAY
Fidler Fatally Injured When Motorcycle Runs Into Telephone Pole
Murray Fidler was fatally injured when his motorcycle ran into a telephone pole. He is survived by his mother; two
brothers, John Fidler and another; and two sisters, Misses Katherine Fidler and Jean Fidler.
