Page Four THE DAVIDSONIAN | WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 21, 1936

FROSH PLAY DUKE FROSH HERE ON MONDAY

SPORTS AFIELD

CATS PREPARE TO MEET CITADEL SATURDAY

YATES

In this column, Mr. Lafferty presents an assortment of players known far and wide. Nutten asks about Tech. With a
remainder of good players, the team is turned snappy.

ARMFIELD

For Southern Conference scoring honors, National Wolf Week is in his article. National Wolf Week is a situation because it
is bad for Citadel's McLeod, Carolina's Wolf, and Wake’s Weaver. Gressett and Charlie Sears’ great work against V.M.I. Rumors touched
on ugly Virginia throwing insinuations.

(Continued on Page 6)

Davidson and Citadel Will Clash Saturday

Each Eleven Has Been Victor In One Contest, Two Ended In Ties

SCORE 7-7 LAST YEAR

Bulldogs Have Edge on Wildcats in Weight

Pictured above is Tom Corbin, blocking back on Davidson’s fighting football team that tangles with Citadel here on Saturday. Tom
is a senior, and he is equally good on offense and defense.

Attempting to avenge the 12-12 tie of last year, the Wildcats are still having a tough time. The Cadets, with
a triple threat, are ahead. The score was 7-7 last year. Davidson has improved by virtue of victories over State
and V.M.I., but the Bulldogs are plenty tough, having won by one touchdown over Florida. Interest is sincerely shown this
year.

TENNIS FINALS TO BE PLAYED

Boggs, Carlson, Kenney, and Sloan Are Participants In Semi-Finals

In the semi-finals, Carl Carlson, a hefty team member, will have an edge in strength. Coach Gressett has two eyed
players, Sloan and Sabo. Sloan played in the backfield, and the third match is unplayed. These semi-finals will be played
Monday and Tuesday. It is hoped that the winners will be ready for the finals.

INTRAMURAL WRESTLING TO START MONDAY

Freshmen are directed to start Monday. Carl Carlson is chosen captain. Last year’s tournament was close. Locke White, a varsity
man, is still undefeated. The squad will be given to the winners. A. Mills of the University of Cincinnati claims
that the increased birth rate is due to an increase in the earth's heat. Notre Dame University alumni have taken
a nation-wide campaign to establish wrestling with other schools in the north and west.

Drygoods... Groceries... Radio Supplies... Hardware...

M. H. GOODRUM & CO.

TAILOR-MADE HAIRCUTS

NORTON’S BARBER SHOP

Norton and Cidroam, Props.

415 South Tryon Street

PAUL & CRYMES, INC.

SPORTING GOODS

CHARLOTTE, N.C.

Our Slogan: “Every Job a Good One”

Standard Printing Company

117 Garland Court

Charlotte, N.C.

Duke Runners Beat ‘Cats in Cross Country

33-26 Is Margin of Victory For Devils; Walker Second to Morse

The Davidson cross-country team, in its first meet of the fall season, bowed to a strong Duke team by a
26-33 score last Saturday. Morse of the Blue Devils led Duke to victory with a time of 21 minutes and
43 seconds. Walker of Davidson and Wilson of Davidson were second and third, respectively; and Wilson of Duke was fourth.
Eight men were on each squad, and the places made by the first five men of each team counted in
the score. The race was run over a course a little more than three and one-half miles long, in terrible
conditions, being very muddy and hilly. The Duke runners were Southern Conference champions last year and have all of last
year’s team back. Davidson has one of its best teams this year and should finish high in the conference. This
Saturday at 11:00 A.M., the Cat cross-country team will meet the squad here. Guilford has twenty-five men out for the
cross-country team. The order of finish was as follows: Morse (Duke) first; Walker (Davidson) second; Wilson (Davidson) third; Parcell (Davidson)
fifth; Hauser (Duke) sixth; Farris (Duke) seventh; Day (Duke) eighth; Johnson (Duke) ninth; Nelson (Duke) tenth; Tel (Davidson) eleventh; Brown
(Davidson) twelfth; Nuykendall (Davidson) thirteenth; and Elder (Davidson) fourteenth.

ELDER, VOGLER LEAD CAT SOCCER PLAYERS

Manager Scott Predicts Successful Season

Under the leadership of Co-Captains Elder and Vogler and Manager Ken Scott, the soccer team is rounding into shape. Thus
far, no strenuous practices have been held, but the candidates have been out every afternoon, getting the feel of the
ball. Ken Scott, who with Bill Bell captained last year’s team, the first that Davidson ever had, predicts the 1936
aggregation will have better success than its predecessor. The personnel will be almost the same as last year; Bell at
center will be sorely missed, and it is not known yet who will take his place, but otherwise, the team
has not been weakened noticeably. The shoes of Haake, who played a great defensive game at goalie, will be filled
by Bones Woodward, and several good men are scrapping for the position. The schedule includes games to be played here
and one at High Point.

Kittens Ready to Meet Imps In Hard Game

Duke Freshmen Will Send Formidable Team To Play Here Friday

The Davidson Wildkittens will enter battle for a third time Friday when they play the strong Freshman team from Duke
University. The game will be held here. The game will be on Davidson Field and will be called at 3:00.
The Davidson Frosh so far have had an even season, winning over Junior College 25 to 0 and losing to
Wofford Frosh 7 to 0. They dominated the play throughout the P.J.C. game, but in the Wofford game, due to
a wet, sloppy field, they never could get theirThe machine started well. They are expected to uncork some new plays
for the Duke game, some of which were not used for the first game but planned for the second game,
and then not used in the second game when the muddy field interfered with their execution. A powerful team from
Duke is anticipated as usual, and the Kittens will be especially keen for a victory. However, Duke was held to
a scoreless tie by the N. C. State Freshman team. As yet, a captain for the Wildkittens has not been
elected. Richmond, Yates, and Rice, who played steady ball, are expected to appear. Yates, who has been a casualty, will
not be able to play due to a knee injury. Another back, Wat, is expected to see service despite a
headache. The starting lineup will be as follows: MacClain, right end; Miller, right tackle; Richmond, right guard; center, Rice; left
guard, Pennington; left tackle, MacClintock; left end, Hunter; quarterback, Rackley and Mays, halfbacks; and Garrett, fullback.

Junior cheerleaders and the class of '40 are expected to be present to cheer the Freshman team to victory, as
well as the varsity team.

JUNIORS, SOPHOMORES STILL TIED FOR LEAD

Juniors and Sophomores Both Defeat Freshmen

With the season drawing rapidly to a close, the sophomores and juniors are in a deadlock on top of the
inter-class football scramble. Both teams remained undefeated last week at the expense of the hapless freshmen. On Monday afternoon, the
juniors, led by Captain Willard Dixon, won by a score of 12-0. The next day, the sophomores had a harder
time but finally managed to eke out a 2-0 victory in the second extra period when a Kitten lateral went
awry and rolled back over the goal line where a freshman back recovered for a safety. In spite of numerous
chances to score, the sophomores were never able to reach pay dirt. Loyd, Johnson, and Sample starred.

Two games have already been scheduled with High Point, one to be played at McMullen’s graduation.

Not that we greatly admire the current slang of Broadway, but there are times when we beam to hear it.
For instance, a newcomer asks a senior if it’s true what they say about “The Tavern?” and the more experienced
young man thinks of the dinner there the other night and answers right back: “Oh, definitely.” He’d make the same
comment to Davidsonians, any time they show up here. Any well-informed Davidsonian has learned that we're here to be nice
to him—and to you. We assume that, from the way he’s received here, we’re staying in business. That’s O.K. with
us.

The Tavern of HOTEL CHARLOTTE

LEW GRAHAM

Lew Graham, shown above, is showing up very well in this, his first year of varsity football. Graham is a
sturdy bulwark on the right side of Davidson's defense. His blocking is good and he still has another year to
play.

PHI GAMS WIN CLOSE BATTLE

Fraternity Competition Swings Into Session With Tag Football

Interfraternity touch football got under way Monday with the Phi Gams trouncing the Betas 12-0 on Sprunt field. Bill Kiesewetter
led the Phi Gam attack, which kept the ball in Beta territory all afternoon. The first touchdown was scored in
the second period on a flat pass from Kiesewetter to Buddy Branton. A Beta pass in the fourth period, which
fell short into the hands of Bill Kiesewetter, resulted in the second tally of the game. Arthur Cooke, Eli Ganier,
and Ganier also looked good for the winners, while Wilbur Edwards, Day, Ke, Gene Sellars, and Jim Terry stood out
for the losers.

Other games this week, as they come in order, are: K. A.’s vs. Pi K. A.’s, Phi Delts vs. S.
A. E.’s, and Pi Kappa Phi’s vs. S. P. I.’s. No game will be played Friday because of the Duke-Davidson
frosh game. The fraternity sports managers are: for Betas, Dick Cathey; K. A.’s, Albert Cumbie; Kappa Sigs, Charlie Elder; Phi
Delts, Lloyd Feuchtenberger; Phi Gams, Arthur Cooke; Pi K. A.’s, “Bull” Durham; Pi Kappa Phi’s, Sam Hemphill; S. A. E.’s,
Hoke Robinson; S. P. I.’s, Henry Lyon. The Phi Gams showed much power in taking the Betas and will bid
fair to dethrone the Kappa Sigs, who are out to repeat last year’s championship. The S. A. E.’s have been
getting in some good practice as well as the Pi Kappa Phi’s and the S. P. I.’s.

Yearling strength (Continued on Page 6)

Blue Devils Trample Yellow Jackets, 19-6

Captain Parker Leads Inspired Duke Eleven to Decisive Victory

TECH SCORES ON PASS

Tipton, Hackney, Johnston Score Duke Points

By YATES FAISON

Cashing in on a blocked punt midway in the first quarter, the Duke Blue Devils started a scoring spree that
ended only after Duke had trounced the heralded Golden Tornado of Georgia Tech before 34,000 spectators in the huge Duke
Stadium Saturday afternoon. Captain Clarence “Ace” Parker justified his rating by dominating the play of both teams.

The game opened in the orthodox way but immediately turned into a punting duel between Parker and Hays. Tech picked
up a few yards on a play around Talliaferro, but after the next exchange of kicks, the Duke end made
up for this by blocking Hays’ punt on the Tech 31. The ball bounded a few feet to the right
and rear of the kicker, so Talliaferro scooped the bounding pigskin up and headed for the goal line under full
steam. Hays, however, overtook him to stop him on the one-foot line. Eric Tipton, star plunger and a standout on
defense, chalked up the first score on a drive through guard. Hackney’s conversion was good. Thereafter, the Techs never gave
up, but their efforts were futile. Duke gained on exchanges of punts. Finally breaking open a receiver, the Devils found
themselves just shy of the Tech 25-yard line. Hackney, eluding rushers while striving to spot an open receiver, found no
such eligible receiver. Tucking the ball under his arm, he set sail down the right sidelines and, being cornered here,
he reversed his field and, aided by opportune downfield blocking, raced diagonally across for a score. In a desperate flurry
as half-time neared, one of the Jacket aerials went awry and was intercepted by (Continued on Page 6).

Medicated with throat-soothing ingredients of Vicks VapoRub. Vicks Cough Drop.

KAPPA ALPHA

Founded at Washington and Lee University, December 21, 1865—68 Active Chapters

COLORS: Crimson and Old Gold

FLOWER: Magnolia and Red Rose

Sigma Chapter Officers

JOHN ANDERSON, Pres.
CHARLES MAUZE, V.-Pres.
JOHN GRAHAM, Treas.
A. S. MOFFETT, Sec.
GIL PALMER—Correspondent

THIS WEEK WE SALUTE

MARION DAVIS

205 South Tryon St.

CHARLOTTE’S LEADING MEN’S STORE
