Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 2, 1936

The Davidsonian
Founded By the Class of 1915
1936 Member 1937
Associated Collegiate Press
Distributors of Collegiate Digest
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON Ave NEW YORK, N.Y.
CHICAGO - BOSTON - SAN FRANCISCO
LOS ANGELES - PORTLAND - SEATTLE

Entered as second-class matter March 3, 1879, at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879.

JIM MORTON Editor
R. H. ROBINSON Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
Owen Cooke
Sam Cothran
Euclid Fant
Hector McGeachy
Dick Vowles
Yates Faison
Harry Kuyk
Howell O. Harold
Dayton John Winn
Sam Ryburn
Fitz Dade Copy Reader

BUSINESS STAFF
Wilson Lowrance Circulation Manager
Ralph Chandler Assistant Circulation Manager
Charles McKnight Collection Manager
J. M. Hall Advertising Manager
J. J. Hill Assistant Business Manager

Any man may commit a mistake, but none but a fool will continue in it.—Cicero.

OSCAR SHOULD
Oscar, janitor for Chambers Building, will receive our thanks whenever he opens the north door to Chambers for night meetings. At present, only the center doors are unlocked for Vespers and other gatherings, which necessitates an additional cold walk.

ROWS BLAZERS...
The senior blazers blazed forth last week. Although somewhat Esquire-ish, they have been given a hearty approval by their owners. Congratulations to the Blazer Committee. It might not be quite as difficult for us to meet the annual assessment if a fund were started by the classes in their freshman year instead of having it face us all at once when your purse is low. A working plan would permit a 75¢ contribution during your freshman year, and $1.00 for the sophomore and junior years. This sum could be employed to meet expenses instead of having the usual 5 to 10¢ donations. Class loyalty would be strengthened because each individual would give toward a central idea. One school is using this program of defraying incidental expenses successfully and it is not too late for others to begin their own fund.

FOOTBALL FINIS...
The Turkey Day game, which saw the Wildcats walloping the Demon Deacons to the tune of 19-5, completed a successful season for Davidson. Early in the season, Davidson was ranked last in the Big Five and fifteenth in the Southern Conference line-up of sixteen teams. The Fighting Wildcats played havoc with those predictions, terminating the year in third place among the Big Five and fifth in the Southern Conference group.

SING SWAN SONG...
Twelve seniors cease the daily scrimmages and work-outs. Dick Johnson, Captain, Alternate Captain Ed Armfield, and others, have led their last attacks against football foes. When we look over next year’s possibilities, we find that many outstanding representatives of this season’s team will be among those present. We predict a good Davidson team, backed by the traditional Davidson spirit, a working combination.

OF INTEREST...
The daughter of Dr. R. H. Harding, Professor of Greek at Davidson, is Caroline Chatfield, columnist for The Charlotte Observer.

SOCCER
Davidson students, under the leadership of Ken Scott, formed a soccer team last year with very little assistance from the Athletic Association. They had a very successful year with their first team and have done very well this season. These founders of soccer at Davidson have done a good job and hope they continue to stimulate interest in it.

Lights...
We appreciate the improvement in the lighting of Wilson Angel’s concert last Tuesday. Darkening the auditorium during the performance did remove the yellowish glare. However, due to some miserable lack of foresight, the light on the organ failed to function and the speaker's face was shadowed like a death mask. What a pity that the beauty of expression could not be seen accompanying the beauty of a fine voice well controlled. What a pity that the college must spend money each year for fine programs and then miss the final finesse of perfection when a little application of forethought can achieve it. Therefore, we suggest after these many definite and concrete actions to perfect the lighting arrangements:

1. That the lights in the body of the auditorium be turned off completely at all times during the concert.
2. That the central lights over the balcony be kept on during the concert. This will enable the audience to read the programs with ease and at the same time will not detract from the surroundings.
3. That the floor light at the organ be played upon the artist.
4. That two small orange spotlights be installed on the sides of the auditorium, about the second set of windows, and be focused upon the artist. This can be installed without detracting from the beauty of the auditorium.

Suggestions 1, 2, and 3 will probably solve the situation. Suggestion 4 will help and might remove the necessity of the floor light, to the comfort of the performer.

Support the Sophs...
For the past four years, at least, the Sophomore Week-Ends have failed to make ends meet financially. This seems to us to be an unwholesome situation and one which would indicate a lack of co-operation on the part of the Student Body. Surely a group of our fellow students is more deserving of our support in such an undertaking than any outside club or orchestra, no matter how national its reputation. The Pan-Hellenic Council is often accused of being mercenary in its transactions, yet in the case of the Sophomore Week-End, any profits would go into the class treasury to help pay for the annual. The Sophomore Week-End always draws a larger representation of the class sponsor, etc., thus being shared by a large proportion of the Student Body. Then too, we believe the boys will show us a good time. They have a fair band and a good set of dances on the way.

Campus Comments
About twelve years ago, two students saw the need for a store on the campus for the benefit of the students. Their main purpose in establishing that shop was for it to be a “College Store.” That is, a place to which the members of the Student Body could go to satisfy any pangs of hunger or thirst without walking halfway to Charlotte. It was then and still is a place of convenience. The store was first in a vacant room in Rumple Dormitory. Later, the College recognized that it was a growing thing, and to help in its growth, furnished the building in which it has been functioning year after year since then. That location proved to be the real factor that pushed it ahead rapidly. It was centrally located with regard to the dormitories and there was enough room to expand its operations. Along with expansion, there grew up the most important phase about it. And that was to take any profits therefrom and put them into a loan fund to be used by the College in helping men further their education if they needed such help. Although the Administration has a number of funds of this nature, there is none that comes so directly FROM the Student Body. Each person who patronizes the Store is responsible in some way for keeping a fellow student here instead of locking the doors of education before him. And after all, what greater satisfaction is there than that of knowing you have helped your fellow man? The Student Store has come a long way since its beginning and it has been entirely due to the co-operation of the Student Body that progress has been made.

STEWART BARNES, Purchasing Manager.

P. S.: I request Dunny Covington, President of the Red and Black Masquers, to write the next Campus Comments.

Lino-cut by Bob Miller.

THE CAMPUS PAN BY NOZY BROOM
Dorothy Parker, like we're fed up on Pollyanesthetics but it is stimulating at times when it seems to be an unusually weary world to pause and contemplate the things for which we, individually and collectively, have cause for giving thanks.

Classroom chatter: There’s a girl in our town so dumb she thinks syntax is a luxury tax.

Stuff and things: Browsing in the library we discovered in a Quips and Cranks of 1914 that the boys in those days yelled “Fire” at visiting females on the campus. So we aren't so original. And in those days Wake Forest used to beat Davidson now and then. How the times change!

We would again like to add our voice to those praising our Wildcats and our coaches. We're justly proud of them.

What's Ken Knorr’s fatal fascination for the girls who call out each Sunday afternoon? Walt Dickson, Stewart, and Jim Dorsett prom-trotting at Hollins this week-end. Nick and Ann Little followed by the stag line at the “D” Club dance. Rumor has it that Ted Husing, who has been giving Davidson flattering publicity this season, may be a guest at the “D” Club banquet.

Bob Briscoe and Charlie Howell are the Damon and Pythias room-mates of the campus. Are upperclassmen too blasé to go to pep meetings or are we slipping? It is rumored that an orchestra has been signed for Mid-Winters but we haven't heard it yet so it mustn’t be true. But the Sophomores have everything lined up for what promises to be a swell week-end with Leftwich and Kay Keever. Will Osborne has developed an unusually smooth trombone section in his versatile band. Yates Faison, J. C. Crowell, Bob Abell, Neil Whitlock and Chubby King looked up and found themselves at the Charlotte Country Club with celebrities at the party. Ed Carl Carlson and George Norfleet took in New York after the Army-Navy game. We suggest Rose Lee to lead the figure at Mid-Winters.

In Gypsy Roy Bigham is scouting talent in Charlotte. George Mathis is singing the blues for a blues singer. Ed Bivens and John Andrews gotHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

There late but Yentz Johnston saw them coming. Bill Crooks, Elmore Holt, and Stew Barnes at the N. C. C. W. hop. This chivy chivy is even more stupid than usual this time but frankness isn’t our only virtue for this is the end. See you at Sophomore Week-End. Armfield.

Stolen Thunder
By DAYMOND TURNER

To Freshmen—
Don't be discouraged,
If at first your successes are few;
Remember that the great oak
Was once a nut like you.

Also—
Gather ye good grades while ye may,
The second year is tougher;
And this same prof that smiles today
Tomorrow may be rougher.

That year is best which is the first
When stude and prof are stranger;
It’s not until he knows the worst
That you're in any danger.
—Parlez-Vous.

At Home—
“There’s always a tie between father and son,” said the speaker, “and you can bet the son is wearing it.”

WOMAN'S CAMPUS
You kissed and told,
But that’s all right.
The man you had
Called up last night.
-Silver and Gold.

Gran Trecho...!—
The difference between Spain and this country is that here we tell little boys that when they grow up they will have a chance to become president. There they are told that when they grow up they will have a chance at the president.

Mother Goose—
Little Miss Muffet sat on a tuffet,
Eating her curd and whey;
By came a spider
And sat down beside her
And said “Is this seat reserved?”
“It must be, he hasn’t said anything all evening.”

Chemistry of Woman—
Symbol—WO
Member of the human family.
Specific gravity—variable.
Molecular structure—exceedingly variable.
Occurrence—can be found wherever man exists.
Physical properties—all colors, sizes, and shapes. Generally appears in used condition; natural surface rarely free from extraneous face covering of textiles or film of grease and pigments. Melts rapidly when properly treated. Boils at nothing and may freeze at any moment. Ordinarily sweet, occasionally sour, and sometimes bitter.
Chemical properties—Exceedingly volatile, highly inflammable, and dangerous-in-the-hands-of-an-inexperienced person. Possesses a great affinity for gold, silver, platinum, and all manner of precious stones. Reacts violently when left alone. Turns green when placed by a better appearing specimen. Ages rapidly.
—Quarterly of Phi Beta Pi.

OPEN FORUM
Here we are, in the midst of our great Centennial year, and it seems that we have forgotten something: the fine old buildings on the campus. I understand that the two literary halls are just as old as the institution itself and that Oak and Elm Rows were the first dormitories here. Those who have been so fortunate as to visit either of the famous English universities have returned impressed by the charm of their beautifully preserved ancient buildings. How different it is here at Davidson! Our literary halls have been left in deplorably bad repair for years, and thousands of motorists passing through the town have seen only these conspicuous eyesores and formed their impression of the college from that scene. Would it not be wise to imitate our ancient fore-runners in the Mother Country—and make some provision to preserve and restore these landmarks in our Centennial program?
Yours,
O. H. B.

DR. W. L. LINGLE
(Continued from Page 1)
of proposed amendments to the so-called Graham Plan. Friday afternoon Lingle will attend a meeting of the Southern University Conference. This conference is composed of 20 universities and 13 colleges throughout the South. They are all members of the Southern Association of Colleges and Secondary Schools, but have organized separately. Dr. W. P. Few of Duke University is president of this conference.

Lingle will speak on Friday night, December 4, to a union meeting of all Presbyterians of Petersburg and vicinity. This is to be in connection with a celebration of the Jubilee Program of the Presbyterian Church. Leaving Richmond, Lingle will go to Charlottesville, Va. to speak both morning and evening at the First Presbyterian Church there. He plans to return to Davidson on Monday.

The Southern Athletic Conference will hold its annual meeting in Richmond December 11, 12. It falls to the lot of the President of the College to attend that Conference, or to appoint a representative. It is the purpose of President Lingle to appoint Mr. Norman Sheppard to represent Davidson College at that meeting.

FRENCH GROUP TAKES
(Continued from Page 1)
Bernard follows in the leading role as the interpreter, Eugene; John Winn will be the leading man, Julien Cicandel, supported by Frank Poe in the role of Betty Hogson. Sam Cothran will be the Garçon, J. R. McClelland will have an English role, playing James Hogson, father of Betty, who has eloped from London to Paris. J. N. Smith will be the police commissioner, with W. O. Cooke as his assistant. H. McFadyen will play a feminine role, that of the hotel cashier. S. C. Crane will have the lead in Moliere’s seventh-century comedy "Le Medecin Malgre Lui" (The Doctor in Spite of Himself). Crane will have the difficult role of Sganarelle, played with great success by Woodrow Hassell when the same play was presented at Converse, Winthrop, and Davidson two years ago. Martine, wife of the doctor, will be played by Jean Rostan. Oscar Armstrong will be the Porter hero, Leandre, with Terrell as his sweetheart Lucinde. The parts of the two servants will be played by John Raynal as Valere and L. W. Kornegay as Lucas. John Reisner will be the nobleman Geronte. Jack Tillotson and A. R. Cates will appear as the peasants Thibaut and Perrin. Richard Vowles will be stage manager of both plays. Rehearsals for these plays have already begun and public performances will be given as soon as possible. Plans for the Christmas meeting were then announced. Frank Poe was named to have charge of the quartet and Terrell Porter to head the orchestra which will appear in French Christmas carols. An original French Christmas play written by John Reisner will be a feature. At the conclusion of the business session, delicious refreshments of ice cream and patisseries francaises were served by Mrs. Goldiere. The meeting adjourned at 11:15 P. M.

UISHELL
Having gobbled my full share of the Thanksgiving gobbler, along with the rest of you, I have my eye on the Christmas one. It's unfortunate that they start running pictures of Santa Claus in the newspapers far in advance because it is next to impossible to think of home now and a textbook at the same time. There are, by the way, just twenty more days until we can leave. Sophomore week-end will shorten the wait, but twenty days is twenty days, no matter how you look at it. Think I'll pack my suitcase now. Nothing makes you feel better.

I was all set for a nifty piece this week to be called “Wad-ing into Jake,” as a result of his false prophecy about the Wake Forest game, and, for that matter, the whole Davidson season. My target, however (curse him), spoiled my fun by coming out with a confession of the error of his ways in Saturday’s Observer. Can’t resist this, though: He was Wade, and found wanting.

Take it from one who has pathetically little appreciation of the finer things in music, you have been missing something if you haven't been to these bi-weekly organ recitals held in Chambers every other Sunday. Though you may not know the names of the pieces, and not care who wrote them, you will have a pleasant half hour. And be surprised, what's more, at how many of the tunes will sound familiar.

Kernel was scared out of his wits (yeah, wits!) last week when he picked up The Davidsonian and saw therein Suge’s “Off the Record” cut at the head of a third-page column. Nozy competition is one thing, but Off the Record is something else. No cause for alarm however, he found, for this Off the Record makes sense. Better look it over.

Did you notice those fires built behind the north goalposts by some of the cash customers at the game Thursday? If that keeps on, people will be clamoring for bleacher seats instead of grandstand seats. I'd have sat behind the bleachers myself if I could have had a fire. Why not run steam pipes under the grandstand seats? Seems like a pretty good idea to me.

Stuff: Fancy phrase from McIntyre: being “cuted” by Shirley Temple. Current rumors that Sec. Hull will be Centennial speaker are just like mentioning Benny Goodman for Mid-Winters... Davidson crashed “Strange as it Seems” Saturday with a mention of last year’s Virginia game... Who else lost his shirt on the Army-Navy game?...... At last the sponsors rate dates at the games... Thanks to The Observer for printing Davidson players’ names in capitals in Sunday’s resume of Southern Conference scoring.

Just as everybody was trying to think of all the things he had to be thankful for last week, the administration came out with our grades and put the bug on all our thanks. The way to get A’s around here is to order alphabet soup at the Pep or some place. That is, unless you chose the unusual way—studying. I don’t like alphabet soup, so I'll stick to my F's and G's.

More Stuff: Felix remained in his cage during the Thanksgiving tilt; our gymnast's competition must have got him... No truer words ever spoken in Chapel than these heard last Friday: “We beat the team and even out-played one of the referees.”... Since its terpsichorean venture, the “D” in “D” Club no longer stands for Davidson; now it stands for Dancing... Maybe you wonder why we use this “stuff.” These dots take up space, my fran!...

---