THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 26, 1936

The Davidsonian
Founded By the Class of 1915
1935 Member 1936
Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate year.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879.

ARTICLES FOR PUBLICATION must be in the hands of Managing Editors by 4:00 o'clock p.m., Monday. Letters to the Editor
are welcome, but all communications intended for publication must be signed.

LAMONT BROWN
R. P. MORROW, Jr. - Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
Jim Morton - Managing Editor
Howert Overton - Managing Editor
Harold Sugg - Managing Editor
Davidson Turner - Managing Editor
John Winn - Managing Editor
Harry Kuykendall - Sports Editor
Martin Barner - Associate Editor
Harvey Grass - Associate Editor
Paul Hartan - Associate Editor
Tom Marciant - Associate Editor
John Wacker - Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
Charles Mauzr - Circulation Manager
Bite Swore - Circulation Manager
Bos Vance - Circulation Manager
Hoke Robinson - Advertising Manager
Birt Hitt - Collection Manager
Bint Dyerte - Assistant Business Manager

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 1936

“And they buried him among Kings, for he hath done much good.”—Ezek.

Sincerest sympathy is extended to DOUGLAS NEAL in the recent death of his Mother.

Paragraphics...
Congratulations to John Lee and Billy Merchant for their excellent showing in the lay-Ccc track meet in Charlotte, Monday night.

Davidson should have at least one man in this year’s Flaming Five. There has been a Wildcat on this select
group ever since it began about six years ago, so let's send in our ballots and get another or even
several in 1936.

Hell Week...
In quite a number of colleges throughout the South “Hell Week” is being abolished. According to the newspapers from these
schools, this sudden wiping out of such a nationwide and age-old tradition is due to, fundamentally, the rapidity with which
the world is progressing and to take “time-out,” which is actually what happens during “Hell Week,” for the unprofitable activities
resulting therefrom, is not just obviously foolish, but actually regressive. After all, what good can either an upperclassman or freshman
gain by humiliating a pledge to the extent that it reflects upon the saneness of the members of the fraternity?
Few of us can plead “not-guilty” of the charge, but all of us, I believe, can readily perceive the utter
futility of it as a constructive institution in the year's routine. It would irrevocably be a step forward for the
fraternities at Davidson to cast into the junk heap this worn-out custom and employ helpful methods of disciplining the pledge
groups.

Stop This “Sudden Death”
Along with many other constructive moves that have emanated in recent months from the students at the University of North
Carolina is a “Safety Driving Campaign.” “And Sudden Death,” that amazing article which appeared in Reader's Digest just before Christmas
and has been reprinted more than 3,000,000 times since, has inspired a nationwide interest in the need for encouraged safer
operation of motor vehicles. Since North Carolina takes the lead among the list of per-capita deaths from automobile accidents, it
is very appropriate that this state take the initiative in blotting out its careless menace, which makes us ride the
highways with an agonizing eye continually glowing ahead for fear “Sudden death” may be just around the corner.

All Things Come...
So numerous are the tangible needs on the Davidson campus that it seems almost like adding insult to injury when
one of them is mentioned, but sometimes fiery insult heaped upon equally painful injury brings action when nothing else will.
Therefore, we revive the hankering for a new infirmary, a desire which seems to have long since passed the simple
“needy stage” into that of dire necessity. The building now being used to house temporarily disabled Davidson students was built
back almost before the time when “man’s memory runneth not to the contrary.” It is out of date in every
respect. When the front door is opened, patients are practically compelled to take hold of the mattress so they will
not roll from their tottering beds onto the floor. Fireplaces in every room provide a very inconvenient and inadequate heating
arrangement, and the windows, which rattle with a “haunted house” echo, keep out just enough cold air to prevent the
occupants from freezing. This may sound somewhat fallacious, but ask Mrs. A. D. “Mother” Robson, who has for twenty-eight years
ministered unselfishly and untiringly to the physical ailments of Davidson students. Through these nearly three decades, this same old building,
that was somewhat antiquated in 1908, has been used as the college infirmary, but she goes ahead from day to
day, wishing that a new building could be provided to take care of the sick students. Despite the uncomfortable quarters,
her continual cheerfulness, helpful service, and the willingness of her assistants make the place bearable for the few patients who
can be accommodated. No place is available in the old structure for the equipment of Dr. MacConnell, the College physician.
Therefore, he is unable to treat conveniently patients who require the use of special medical appliances. Nevertheless, it is unnecessary
to enumerate the many inadequacies of the present hospital. The growing need for a new one is irrevocable. It isn't
a necessity that an extremely large one be built, but a well-equipped building with beds for about forty patients could
comfortably take care of the most illnesses Davidson would have at any one time. A new infirmary seems to be
the most urgent of our tremendously usable additions at Davidson, so we place it first in the list with a
new gymnasium, a new library, and a new social center. How funds to erect these buildings can be secured is
the main difficulty, but an ancient adage promises that “all things come to those who wait.” However, practically a hundred
years waiting hasn’t brought Davidson a new infirmary, so we had better abide by the well-known saying which tells us
that: “The Lord helps those who help themselves.” Let’s talk up the needs wherever we go and help get a
new infirmary and these other things for Davidson before the Centennial Celebration in 1937.

In order to further this very worthy measure, pamphlets on the subject “Guides to Highway Safety” have been issued by
the Institute of Government and the Daily Tar Heel at Chapel Hill. Several hundred copies of these very informative booklets
have been sent to each of a great number of colleges and universities throughout the U. S., and Davidson has
been included in this group. There are not enough for every member of the Student Body to have one, but
each man should find access to one and glean from it such startling statistics as “motor accidents caused 36,000 deaths
and almost one million injuries last year alone. “In all the wars of our history 244,357 Americans were killed. In
automobile accidents which took place in the U. S. between 1920 and 1935, 388,936 persons lost their lives. “The National
Highway death rate is 23.2 per 10,000,000 gallons of gasoline consumed. “One out of every nine persons killed is a
child playing in the street. “The weekend is the most dangerous part of the week. On Sunday almost twice as
many people are killed as on Tuesday, Wednesday, or Thursday. “One-third of all fatalities that occur on highways take place
during the five hours between 3 P. M. and 8 P. M. “Speeding and reckless driving cause one-third of all
fatalities that drivers are responsible for.” Carelessness—don't give a hurrah—is characteristic of each above-stated fact, which clearly shows that the
abolition of this menace is possible in a civilized country as the U. S. haughtily claims to be. This noble
work of North Carolina students is highly commendable, and we invite your religious scrutiny to the contents of this carefully
prepared booklet, and urge your conscientious heeding of the guiding advice it sets forth. Copies will be placed in the
various dormitories, where the first-comers may secure them. However, after carefully reading it, pass it on to someone who hasn't
had an opportunity to see it.

DAVIDSON OFF THE by HAROLD SUGG

And Yet Once More Into the Breach
A number of the boys captured the front row and wormed into the balcony to hear a magnificent voice, Lawrence
Tibbett. They saw a handsome six-footed personality: at times Don Juan, in turn Emperor Jones, John Highlandman, and Tommy Atkins.
They were well satisfied, though the program was a bit unfamiliar. As usual, we liked the encores best. Tibbett even
put a new lacquer on the musical banality, “Shortnin’ Bread,” and delighted his audience with modern satirical notes. And we
admire his personality. The Great American Tragedy is that culture is represented in funny haircuts, bewildering beards, and unfortunate mannerisms.

Observations
Interesting it is to note the behavior of the typical American audience when favored with an encore, an oasis in
a classical desert. We go wild. It is like eating spinach blindfolded and finding a spoonful of ice cream. Like
meeting your next-door neighbor after a painful drive through enemy territory. Like looking through a geometry book and finding an
arithmetic problem you can work. It is occasionally irksome to see an audience sit stolidly through an hour of splendid
and not difficult music and then rise in paroxysms of applause over the same hammered and hackneyed street and radio
songs.

Practical Minds
For Managing Editors Hal Overton and John Winn, whose usually frolicsome minds and unburdened souls are bound in and cluttered
by impenetrable figures, and for all others whose eyes are encircled and whose holidays are non-existent, we have composed this
dirge, elegy or what-have-you:

IN MEMORIUM
Here lies Ezra Josephus Blue,
He survived pneumonia and the flu.
Of sparkling youth he was the fountain,
But it warnt no use,
He took Accounting.

And lest we be accused of being frivolous (which added to the already accumulated accusations of being a sour-faced cynic,
a milk-fed reformer, a rebellious iconoclast, etc. would make quite an indictment), may we hasten to add that Accounting and
other business courses are praised by alumni as being the most essential and worthwhile courses received in college.

Expeditions Into No-Man’s Land
Descending upon nearby cloisters of sheltered femininity, surviving the coldness and awful Victorianism that characterizes all waiting halls of girls'
schools were quite a few Davidson lads. Investigating the Flora and Fauna of Flora Macdonald were D. D. Rhodes, Alton
Cates, Rob King, Hervey Ross, John Cooke, Red Shelby and others. Newton Smith found “Trouble in Paradise.” We find that
the Davidson Glee Club will stay fourteen miles from there on its coming concert. Queens: Miles Wood, The Floridian Flop;
Bud Ingram, the Delawarian Dope; and Charley Raynal, the Carolinian Chiseler. Converse: Billy Higgins and Howard Summerell. Somewhere in Greensboro:
Graham. Squires.

Billingsgate
Classic Remarks: Dave Herring to Lawrence Tibbett, “I enjoyed your concert, Mr. Crooks!” And Bill Link wanted him to autograph
his.Copy of “With Lawrence in Arabia.” Simile we haven't found a place for: Time is continually being hashed by thousands
of dollar watches.

Suggestion: That Male Quartets always sing unaccompanied.

Morris Peabody, Queen of the Physics Library.

Judge Cathey, the man with the derby and a longing toward Mary Baldwin. — Charlie Sears and Al Cumbie fight
it out.

Little Yentz Johnston (Why don’t they change the name of Johnstons to the Yentzes?) finds that the Whalen industry is
dying out: but that everything else is Nellie per-Progress—

A psychology professor at Boston University has prohibited note-taking in his classes. He maintains that such procedure substitutes the hand
for the brain and still gives a very poor reproduction of his lectures. May his tribe increase!

‘The Tables Turned’— The students at Catawba College enjoyed a Leap Year Dance recently. The affair was carried out in
true leap year style. Some of the girls even went so far as to send corsages to their dates.

Logic— A Carolina economics class was involved in discussion centering around the law of supply and demand. “What,” rasped the
professor, “is the result when prices are lowered?” The students were nonplussed. At last, a timid soul in the rear
of the classroom spoke up: “Why uh-uh,” he stammered, “things are cheaper.”

Man-Hunt— To those of you who have interests in Decatur, we dedicate the following from The Emory Wheel: “Give a
nickel and get a quarterback.” “We came to be went with, but we ain’t.” “In the new parlors be yourself,
not by yourself.”

“With such stirring pleas and protests as these, girls of Agnes Scott College recently raised $200 to buy radios, new
furniture, and new softer lights for the date parlors in Main Building and Rebecca Scott Hall.” “Now, the ‘hunting grounds’
in order, the slogan is ‘new and better fraternity pins.’” Let's tell ’em: ‘That's what you think.’

Self-Torture— 1st student: Our history teacher talks to himself, does yours? 2nd ditto: Yes, but he thinks we are listening
to him!

Egocentric— A Maroon columnist tells about the acrobatic dancer who was “so wrapped up in herself that a three-cent stamp
on her forehead would have mailed her out of the city.”

Contents Noted— Punch quotes a psychologist who says: “Women are usually happy before a glass.” Before we'd agree, we'd have
to know what was in the glass.

Paid in Full— A certain Doctor of Randolph-Macon College went into a local merchant's to pay a bill. Upon inquiring
the amount he owed, he pulled out a moth-eaten checkbook and proceeded to write a check. His errand over, the
venerable Doctor turned and crossed the threshold to freedom. Imagine the merchant's surprise when he received a curt note from
his bank demanding an explanation. It seems that the noble Doctor had made the check out to himself and signed
the merchant's name to it!

Query?— Is there a columnist with soul so fine Who, when he steals a joke has said ‘I'll give a
credit line.’ —Technique.

Yankee Wit— A professor who comes in ten minutes late is rare. In fact, he’s in a class by himself.
* * * Man is but a worm, he comes, squirms about a bit, and then some hen gets him
—Jim.

Static— Texas Christian has 60 radios in men’s dormitory rooms, one in the journalism office, and one in the business
office. Crosley is the most popular radio, and a recent poll showed the Lucky Strike hit parade the most popular
program with Jack Benny second.

Literature— Q—Who is your favorite author? A—My father. Q—How interesting, what does he write? A—Checks!

And what Around Washington By ARNOLD SERWER Washington, D.C. — No one thinks of Washington except as the seat of
the nation’s government, yet this city has another, although lesser claim to distinction, and that is its importance as a
college town. For Washington has four universities and a number of small colleges within the city limits, all of them
doing quite well from the standpoint of student enrollment. The universities are Georgetown, George Washington University, Catholic University, and American
University. Wilson Teachers College, Columbia College of Law, and the Washington Law School are a few of the colleges. Probably
the first three of the four universities named are the only ones known to people outside the District of Columbia,
mainly by virtue of what publicity their athletics get from time to time. The fourth, American University, although one of
the outstanding graduate schools in the country, commands little or no national press mention.

The composition of the student bodies of these schools is rather interesting. The sons and daughters of government employees and
officials of varying importance, of legislators having semi-permanent residence here, and of foreign diplomats make up the greatest part of
their enrollments. Many an out-of-town student of a middle-class family casually bringing home the son of an ambassador for the
Christmas holidays has thrown his friends and relations into a state bordering on panic. How, they wonder, did their William
achieve enough sangfroid to be capable not only of taking an ambassador's son calmly but of referring to the aforesaid
ambassador as “Tubby's old man?”

Hundreds of undergraduate students here are completing courses of study in night classes and working for the government during the
day. Those who are able to secure government jobs and work and study under those conditions are really fortunate because
their salaries more than suffice to maintain them. This arrangement has been successfully managed by many law students and those
taking general courses in letters and science. Additional hundreds of persons working for the government, already having degrees, enroll in
special graduate courses at night. The graduate courses run by the Department of Agriculture are extremely popular with those making
a career of government service. Statistics, economics, accounting, government administration, world affairs, and dozens of other courses are offered by
the department. These courses are accredited by the country's leading universities, particularly the courses in statistics, a field in which
the department's instructors excel since many of them are government statisticians of national standing.

In a sense, students at each of the schools consider the whole town their campus more than the few acres
about the college buildings. They mingle readily and naturally with the scores of young college-trained New Dealers who not long
ago were undergraduates themselves at the leading universities of the country. You find them at the same lectures, the same
open dances, the same concerts.

ONE BOY THE PRINCIPAL COULD NOT LICK He's Robert Wadlow, 17 years old, who has just been graduated from high
school in Alton, Ill. He is going to enter college next fall to study law. We don’t know for sure,
but we imagine Robert is being deluged by offers from college basketball coaches right now. For Robert is 8 feet,
4 inches in height and weighs 390 pounds. Bobbie is still growing. Doctors think he may become the tallest man
in recorded history. One would think Mr. Wadlow should be able to impress a jury.

It may well be that the single standard of morality is slowly cracking up under the ravages of this evil
age, or it may just be that anyone, including a Ph.D., can do about anything he wishes with figures. During
its year and a half of existence, this column has witnessed and reported campus “surveys” of every conceivable type—from the
average number of hairs in a fraternity boy's eyebrows to the number of years it takes the average banker's son
to get through college. And all this faithful following of the college press has at last been rewarded. We can
now present to you the results of the purity survey on the campus of Queen's University. “Purity” in the personal,
intimate, whisper-and-snicker sense. It seems that the women are 66.4 percent pure while the men are but 59.3 percent virtuous.
The test consisted of 18 questions and was given to 150 students. Questions varied. One was, “Do you smoke?” One
girl turned up with a perfect score, and one man got to 99.5 percent holiness. He was the one who
admitted he had once smoked a cigarette.

Compare the Davidsonians of Years Gone By

—1931— Twenty-nine men make the Honor Roll for the first semester. The seniors lead with eleven men, followed by the
juniors with eight. * * * Mid-Winter meeting is held by the trustees. Plans are made for Founders Day, and
for the Centennial celebration. * * * Several professors attend a World Mission Conference in Chattanooga, Tenn. * * *
Y.R.C. plans to study China. * * * Dr. W. T. Thompson speaks at Vespers. * * * Glee Club's
annual concert will be given March 3. * * * Henry F. Seibert gives an organ recital. * * *
The Faculty entertains the Seniors at their annual party. * * * Baseball team starts its spring training. * *
* Basketball team defeats the University of South Carolina 35-26, but loses to the College of Charleston, 32-31, and to
the Citadel, 22-21. * * * Sophomore week-end will be held March 14.

—1926— Trustees meet and discuss plans for Chambers Building. They chose Dr. C. M. Richards head of the department of
Bible and transferred Prof. W. L. Porter from the chair of Biology to that of Geology. They elected as other
professors Scot C. Lyon, G. B. Watts, and Henry T. Lilly. * * * Dr. Dunbar H. Ogden preaches in
the annual spring services. * * * Basketball team loses to State, Carolina, and Duke. * * * Sophomores hold
banquet in Charlotte. * * * Six letter men report for baseball practice. * * * Trackmen hold first practice.
* * * Basketball team defeats Furman 33-30, but loses to Wofford, 30-29.

—1921— Davidson defeated by State, Elon, and Carolina in hard-fought games. * * * Preliminaries for intercollegiate debates are held.
* * * Eleven seniors speak in oratorical contest. * * * Glee Club has a very busy trip through
North Carolina. Five concerts are sung in six days. * * * The track is being put in shape for
the coming season. * * * Rifle Range is almost ready for use. * * * A checker tournament is
now in progress.

—1916— Junior speaking proves to be a big success. * * * Basketball season comes to a close. * *
* Plans are going forward for a military training course for the college. * * * Queens College Glee Club
presents a concert here.

Printers... Publishers... Bookbinders... Commercial and Social Printing and Publishing Book and Catalog Publishing a Specialty REPRESENTATIVES: LAMONT BROWN—R. P. MORROW
STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY 7 Garland Court Charlotte, N. C.
