° BRAWL IN NIFTY COSTUME BALL SUCCESSFUL BOWERY ALENDA tux uUBI ORTA The Davidsonian LIBERTAS DAVIDSON R. O. T. C. UNIT IS GIVEN EXCELLENT RATING BY INSPECTOR VOL. XXIII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., APRIL 29, 1936 NUMBER 25 J. K. ABERNETHY MADE FINANCE BOARD HEAD OF PUBLICATIONS FOR ISSUES OF YEAR 1937 Edits Annual; Morton Represents Davidsonian; Overton For Yowl TO HANDLE FINANCES Two Faculty Members and Three Students Are Board John Abernethy, of Winter Haven, Fla., was elected president of the Publications Board by that group during the past week. In a recent student body election, the following men were picked to make up the Publications Board: John Abernethy, for Quips and Cranks; Jim Morton, for The Davidsonian; and Hal Overton, for The Yowl. Nominations for this board are always six in number, including the editors and business managers of the three publications. The Publications Board is always made up of three students and two permanent members of the faculty. Those faculty members are Prof. F. K. Fleagle and Mr. F. L. Jackson. This group's main duty is the supervision of the financial administration of the three publications. John Abernethy, who will serve as editor of the 1937 annual, is a member of Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity. He also belongs to the Photographic Club, the Glee Club, and acts as junior track manager. During this past year he has served as snapshots editor of the annual. Jim Morton, who will edit the 1937 (Continued on Page 6) FOUR DAVIDSON MEN ATTEND YMCA CAMP Retreat Held Recently at Greensboro Camp Four Davidson men attended the Y. M. C. A. retreat held recently at Nawakwa, Y. M. C. A. camp in Greensboro. The retreat was a joint meeting of delegates from the Y. M. and Y. W. C. A. organizations at various schools in North Carolina. The Davidson delegates were Wade Boggs, Heywood Hill, Watson Street, and John Walker. Other delegates were from State, Carolina, Duke, Greensboro, and the W. C. U. N. C. as well as several others. The conference began Friday night, April 24, and ran through Sunday noon, April 26. Speakers were Rev. Don Stewart who graduated from Davidson in 1926 and is at present the student pastor at Carolina, the Rev. Carl Voss who is pastor of a Congregational church at Raleigh, Mr. Ed King, director of Y. M. C. A. work at State, and the Rev. Cromer, who discussed the plans for next summer at Blue Ridge. The discussions revolved around an effort to awaken social consciousness in our colleges today. In discussing the application of Christianity to social problems, the problems of peace, interracial relations, and economic order were discussed. Professor To Conduct Next Vesper Services Dr. H. Price Gwynn, professor of education here at Davidson, will be the speaker at the Vesper Service Sunday night, May 3. Dr. Gwynn is noted throughout the country as a capable and excellent speaker. He is in great demand in this section and it is fortunate that he is here where we are able to hear him. This service will be a communion service at Dr. Gwynn’s request. There has not been a communion in the Vespers Services up until the present, and since the school year is nearly over and also because few students have attended the church communions, it was decided that one at Vespers would be fitting. Dr. H. M. Moffett will assist Dr. Gwynn in this service. NEW OFFICERS ARE ADMINISTERED OATH DURING PAST WEEK BARNES AND OVERTON ARE STORE MANAGERS Stewart Barnes, of Asheville, and Hal Overton, of Greensboro, have been elected to act as Student Store Managers for the coming year. Barnes will be the Purchasing Manager, this position being held by Dan Griffin during the past year. Overton will replace Henry Cathey as Financial Manager of the Student Store. Other men eligible for the Student Store jobs were: Tom Corbin, Howard Covington, Hugh Gracey, Joe Hunter, Jim Johnston, Ken Knorr, George Kuykendall, and Bill Quick. CLASSICISTS NAME DR. HARDING AS HEAD Southern Section of Classical Association Meets at Greenville Dr. Harding of Davidson was elected president of the Southern Section of the Classical Association at its meeting, which was held in Greenville last week. At the same time Dr. Clyde Pharr of Vanderbilt was chosen as Vice-president, while Miss Ruth Carroll from Hartsville, South Carolina will serve as Secretary-treasurer. While the attendance at the meeting was not large, it was marked by representatives from as far north as Virginia and as far south as Texas and Florida. Dr. Harding went as the delegate from Davidson. Other colleges represented were Randolph-Macon, Vanderbilt, Howard College, South Carolina, North Texas State Teachers College, University of Mississippi, University of Florida, North Carolina College for Women, Winthrop College, Wake Forest, and North Carolina, besides high schools. A large number of excellent papers were read, dealing with both the humorous and the serious side of ancient life. The meeting concerned itself mainly with a discussion of the decline in the teaching of Latin in the public schools and a means was sought to remedy this situation. Committees will be appointed in all of the southern states to see that delegations shall visit the heads of the departments of education and plead for a show of sympathetic interest in offering courses in Latin in every high school. Efforts will be made to see that the interest of the Parent-Teacher Associations in this field is enlisted. The classicists firmly believe that (Continued on Page 6) SCHOLARSHIPS ARE AWARDED Three Davidson Alumni Get Latta Scholarships Three Davidson alumni have been awarded the coveted Latta Scholarship at Union Theological Seminary of Richmond, Va. The students honored are Andrew Bird, '31; Robert H. Smith, '35; and Donald Branton, '35. Bird is an assistant in philosophy, and a member of Gamma Delta social fraternity while at school here. Since leaving here he was four years with the Wachovia Bank and Trust Company of Winston-Salem and is a deacon of the First Presbyterian Church there. At Union he is president of his class for this year and secretary-elect of the student council for next term. Smith was also editor of the annual while at Davidson (1935), O. D. K., and a fraternity brother of Bird. Don Branton was particularly active in Y. M. C. A. work while here. Fourteen Members of Student Council Follow Chapman in Oath GLASS LEADS DEVOTIONS Edwards Asks Students For Their Co-operation The members of the Student Council for 1936-37, and other newly-elected leaders of campus life and activities for next year, were inducted into their offices at the chapel hour on last Friday morning, April 24. After the devotional exercises, conducted by Harvey Glass, and the announcements, Bob Carleton Chapman, its retiring president, called the new members of the Student Council to the stage where he read and they followed in taking their oath of office. These men were Edwards, Boggs, Branch, Dickson, Morton, Scott, Winn, Brown, Dorsett, Lafferty, Patterson, McClelland, Sloan, and Webb. Then Chapman made a talk of resignation, and turned his office over to Wilbur Edwards, who spoke briefly, asking for co-operation and expressing admiration for those who led the student body before him. He spoke especially of the honor system: “Destroy our code of honor, and we destroy our liberty.” In closing he mentioned again the splendid work of Carleton Chapman in his year as president of the student body. Harvey Glass then made a speech of farewell as the retiring president of the Y. M. C. A., and Walter Dickson, in reply, spoke of the Christian spirit of the college, and the reputation it has gained for Davidson. Lamont Brown then turned the editorship of The Davidsonian over to Jim Morton, who accepted it by pledging himself to the support of the paper's motto: “For a Better Davidson.” Barnett presented control of Quips and Cranks to John Abernethy, with congratulations and sympathies for the hard work which is involved in its publication. Next Bob Downie surrendered the editorship of The Yowl to his successor, Hal Overton, who pledged himself and his staff to make their magazine “the laughing stock of the campus.” Lindsay, in his address as retiring president of the senior class, mentioned the joys of the college experience of the class of '36, “We have learned something from our books, and a great deal from our companions,” he said. Boggs accepted the leadership of the centennial class with expressions of his intention and his classmates’ to make that class fill its place well as a part of the student body. The Pan-Hellenic Council topped off a successful series of dances Saturday night, April 25 with a bigger and better Bowery Ball. Friday night the Military Ball, sponsored by the local chapter of Scabbard and Blade, held forth from ten until two. Members of the military fraternity and members of the Junior R. O. T. C. wore their military uniforms. Others not participating in the ball wore costumes to add to the festive atmosphere. The ball was held in the gymnasium. The Junior members of the R. O. T. C. and the cadet officers of Scabbard and Blade, prior to intermission, formed a row of arched sabers under which the dates of the cadet officers marched. At the end of the row Colonel Rhett presented each girl with a bracelet. These bracelets were fastened to the officers and their dates.For the ensuing no-break after the completion of the figure, Cadet Lieutenant Colonel Windham led the figure. Those participating in the figure were: Miss Hilda Silvand, and Cadet Lieutenant Colonel John Windham; Miss Polly Cathey, and Cadet Captain Branton Hambrick; Miss Grace Robinson, and Cadet Captain Okey Wooten; Miss Helen Alexander, and Cadet Captain Jean Clendenin; Miss Dorothy Archer, and Cadet Captain Sarah Rice; Miss Margaret Hassell, and Cadet Captain Tinkle Darst.

ND. L. HARDEE INSPECTS R.O.T.C. BATTALION THURSDAY AND FRIDAY

Four Classes Undergo Examinations on Work Covered During Year

FIELD INSPECTION HELD

CAPTAIN CONDL Inspector Reports “Excellent” Rating For Battalion

Captain David L. Hardee, of Winston-Salem, inspected the Davidson College R.O.T.C. unit Thursday and Friday. He found the local unit satisfactory and gave it the rating of “excellent.”

On Thursday, Captain Hardee examined the records of the department and inspected the four classes. Each class reported at the usual hour, and it was given questions including all phases of work covered during the year up until the present time. The Seniors were questioned on subjects with the averages as follows: Offensive Combat, 94; Combat Principles, 87; Combat Tanks, 97; Military Intelligence, 94; Military Law, 93; Military Policy, 93; Company Administration and Supply, 94; Defense Against Chemical Warfare, 98; and Anti-Aircraft Defense, 97. This gives a final average of 94.4.

(Continued on Page 6)

CLASS CHOOSES FOUR AS JUNIOR MARSHALS

Four Campus Leaders Elected Last Friday

Jack Edwards, Joe Hunter, and Hal Overton were elected by the junior class in a meeting on last Friday morning, April 24, to serve as the junior marshals at the commencement exercises in June. These four men were elected from a group of eight men nominated, the others being Billy Hill, George Norfleet, Frank Poe, and Harold Suge.

Branch is a member of the Phi Delta Theta social fraternity, the student council, the new Pan-Hellenic Council, and the Black Key. Edwards is a member of the Beta Theta Pi fraternity and was recently elected president of the student body. Hunter is a member of Pi Kappa Phi, a football letter-man, and a son of the Black Key. Overton is a member of the Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity and was recently elected editor of the Yowl, the college humor magazine.

ALSTON INVOKES “Y” CABINET IN CHURCH TO USEFUL SERVICE

Fourteen Men Installed Into Various Offices of Association

The new Y.M.C.A. Cabinet, appointed by Walter Dickson last week, was installed at a ceremony held during the vespers service, Sunday evening, April 20. The Reverend Alston presided, being the guest minister for the service. The new appointees are: Wilbur Edwards and Kenneth Scott, in charge of student life; Hector McGeachy and Marion Bryant, in charge of boys’ work—Scouts and Hi-Y; Wade Boggs, in charge of freshman work; Bill Link, in charge of vespers services; Monroe Wicker, in charge of deputations; Harris Bradley, music; John Winn, publications; Bill Kiesewetter, Sunday Is; Watson Street, self-help and vocational guidance; Frank Brown, world evangelism; Weywood Hill, chapel; Sherrod Rice, social center. At the vespers service, the cabinet members were given their charge by Mr. Alston. The congregation then stood with them while (Continued on Page 6)

Dr. D. H. Howard, Jr., of the Department of Chemistry, who died last Sunday night.

A. McCLURE ORDAINED AT MORNING SERVICE

Albert B. McClure, secretary of the Y.M.C.A. at Davidson, was ordained as a minister for evangelistic work last Sunday in the college church. Dr. R. A. White of Louisville and Dr. E. K. Coit of Georgia assisted Dr. Moffett, Dr. Richards, and Dr. Arbuckle in the impressive order of service. The doxology opened the morning worship. Dr. Coit followed with the scripture reading, and Dr. White led the congregation in prayer. The ordinates were then (Continued on Page 6)

Winners Chosen For German Scholarship

Dr. G. R. Vawles has announced that the winners of the scholarship for the summer session at the University of Heidelberg, Germany, are Ovid Bell, Alton Cates, and Jim Reinhardt. Bell, a member of the Phi Delta Theta fraternity, is a leader of the junior class and is a member of the student council. Cates, from Lincolnton, is also a member of the sophomore class and is a member of the Phi Delta Theta fraternity. These men will sail for Germany on the S.S. Deutschland on June 1. Classes will begin June 22 and will continue until August 1. The first summer school will be a trip to the Olympic Games in Berlin.

Davidson Band Gives Concert

The Davidson College Band played an exhibition concert at the North Carolina High School Band Contest held at the University of North Carolina last Friday. Mr. Pfohl, director of the Davidson Band, was one of the judges for the contest. The band performed a march by Dvorak and Raymond. The band spent the remainder of the evening in Greensboro and returned to Davidson late that night.

DR. DAVID HOWARD, CHEMISTRY AND MATHEMATICS PROFESSOR, DIES IN A CHARLOTTE HOSPITAL

Attended School at Davidson and Obtained Ph.D. at Cornell

FUNERAL HELD TUESDAY

Was Honor Man and Phi Beta Kappa Here

Dr. David H. Howard, Jr., associate professor of Chemistry and professor of Mathematics, died last Sunday night at 10:45 o'clock in a Charlotte hospital where he had been a patient for the last two months. Dr. Howard, a native of Lynchburg, Va., graduated at Davidson in the class of 1928. He received his master’s degree here the next year and his Ph.D. at Cornell in 1932. He then taught for two years at George Washington University and returned to Davidson last fall as associate professor of chemistry. Two months ago, Dr. Howard entered the hospital for sinus treatment; mastoiditis developed and went into meningitis. His condition was regarded as critical during the past week. Dr. Howard was one of the most popular of the younger professors on the campus and a brilliant future had been predicted for him in his chosen field. He was 28 years old and an honor man in his undergraduate days, a member of Phi Beta Kappa, national scholastic fraternity, and Sigma Pi Sigma, national chemistry fraternity. The funeral took place yesterday at 4 o'clock in Lynchburg, with several members of the Davidson faculty and student body attending. (Continued on Page 6)

PROMINENT LEADERS CHOSEN TO LECTURE

Speakers to Address Students On Selected Topics

From the results of a poll taken among the students, the Y.M.C.A. has obtained a number of prominent leaders to speak to all those interested in their respective fields. Dr. H. G. Hill, Dr. Myers, and Dr. Van Deventer will address the students on various topics. Dr. W. L. Lingle Addresses Reunion In Midway Church

On Founders Day, the Midway church heard Dr. Walter Lingle deliver the annual address at the yearly reunion last Sunday. The church, which was founded by Puritans one hundred and seventy-five years ago, no longer has regular services, but the descendants of the original members meet annually. (Continued on Page 6)