THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 15, 1936

Glee Club; Band Join In Moravian Easter Music
Play in Saturday Night Cantata and Sunrise Service Next Morning

THIRTY MUSICIANS GO
Dufoes “Seven Last Words of Jesus” Is Sung

The Davidson College Glee Club and the brass and wood-wind sections of the orchestra went to Winston-Salem to participate in
the Moravian Easter services there last Saturday night and Sunday morning, April 11 and 12. The Glee Club sang the
chorus from the cantata, “The Seven Last Words of Jesus,” Saturday night, while the orchestra played in early services Sunday
morning.

Thirty members of the Glee Club furnished most of the male voices for the chorus of the cantata, which was
given in Memorial Hall, Salem College. Soloists on the program included Mark Bills, baritone (who sang at the vesper services
here Sunday night). Professor James C. Pfohl of Davidson conducted the program. The music for the “Seven Last Words of
Jesus” was composed by Theodore Dufoes, former director of the Paris Conservatory of Music, and is his most famous work.

The “seven last words” were: “Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do;” “Verily, thou shalt be in
Paradise today with me;” “Woman, here behold thy son;” “God, my Father, why hast Thou forsaken me?;” “I am athirst;”
“Father, into Thy hands I commend my soul;” and “It is finished.” These themes were developed by other sentences through
solo and chorus.

Ten members of the brass and woodwind sections of the orchestra and eight Moravian bands played Moravian chorales, in different
parts of Winston-Salem, from two-thirty to four o’clock Sunday morning. They then went to Salem College and ate breakfast. At
five o'clock, the orchestra, together with some Moravian bands, played chorales at the Easter Sunrise service in the Moravian cemetery,
“God's Acre,” to an audience of forty thousand people.

OFFICERS ELECTED BY PHYSICS FRATERNITY

The last meeting of Sigma Pi Sigma, national honorary Physics fraternity, was held on Monday night, April 13. The main
business for this meeting was the election of officers. W. A. Douglas was elected to serve as president for the
next term. He succeeds A. A. Kuhn in taking this position. G. A. Hornbeck was elected vice-president and M. B.
Crisp will act as secretary-treasurer.

After all business was discussed two papers were read. One of these was given by M. L. Lafferty, upon “Acoustics.”
He told of the entire field of sound engineering and how reverberations are overcome by insulation of walls. The other
paper was on the “X-Ray” and was presented by M. B. Crisp. He enumerated the properties of moving electrons and
gave a detailed description of the X-ray tube. He also described the cathode and the anode.

YOWL WILL SOON HOLD ELECTION FOR EDITOR

The Yowl will hold its election during the chapel hour next week. Five members of the rising senior class have
been nominated for the office of editor. They are John Anderson, Bob Johnston, Harry Kuykendall, Hal Overton, and Gib Smith.
All of these men have served on the Yowl staff and held positions during the closing year. Tom Downie, present
editor of the Davidson humorous magazine, stated that the forthcoming May issue would be edited by the editor-elect and himself.
This will appear about the middle of May. Managing editors will be elected following this election and will be announced
in the next edition of The Davidsonian.

ALL WASHED UP

Magnolia: “When Opaline went and got married us girls done give her a shower.”
Pansy: “Dat sho was nice. Ah bet her husband was glad to get her all nice an’ clean an’ sanitary.”

R.O.T.C. UNIT TO BE INSPECTED
Close and Extended Order Drill Will Be Given After Parade

INSPECTION ON 23, 24
Captain Will Visit One Class of Each Year

The annual proficiency inspection of the Reserve Officers Training Corps unit of Davidson College will be made by Captain David
L. Hardee, Infantry, on Thursday and Friday, April 23 and 24. The inspection will include an inspection of the general
administrative organization of the unit, an inspection of the government property and its care, and an inspection of the theoretical
and practical training of the unit. This inspection will be carried out in accordance with the army regulations governing this
subject. The inspection was ordered by the general commanding the Fourth Corps area of the United States Army, whose headquarters
are in Atlanta, Ga.

Captain Hardee, who is to be inspector of the Davidson unit, is stationed at Winston-Salem as an instructor of the
320th Infantry. Captain Hardee served in the World War and won several citations for bravery and meritorious service. He is
a graduate of the Basic Course in the Infantry School and of the Air Service Tactical School.

Col. John T. Rhett, PMS&T, issued the following schedule of inspection on Monday and this is the procedure to be
followed the last of this month. The Inspector will call on President Lingle Thursday morning and will discuss the status
of the R.O.T.C. unit with him. He will inspect the theoretical training of the unit that morning and afternoon and
will examine certain sections of each course. During the second period Thursday morning Section E of the Second Year Basic
course will be visited by the Inspector. The third period he is to visit Section K of the first year
basic class. The second year advanced and the first year advanced will be examined the fourth and fifth periods respectively.
Later the same afternoon Captain Hardee will inspect the records and administration of the unit and make a complete theoretical
report.

(Continued on Page 6)

EASTER MUSIC IS PRESENTED
Street and Dickson Lead Service; Mark Bills Sings; Symphonic Band Plays

The annual Easter Musical Vesper Service, under the auspices of the Y. M. C. A., was held in Davidson’s Chambers
auditorium, Sunday evening, April 12, the music being rendered by the Davidson College Glee Club and Symphonic Band, under the
direction of James C. Pfohl, college musical director. Mark Bills, baritone soloist, sang two selections to Mr. Pfohl’s accompaniment.

The program opened with the prelude, “Wake, Awake! For Night is Flying,” by Bach, played by the band. Following the
hymn, “Fairest Lord Jesus,” sung by the congregation, Walter Dickson gave the invocation. The band then played Beethoven's “Creation Hymn,”
following which, Watson Street led in prayer. After the offering the Glee Club sang Dickinson's arrangement of “In Joseph’s Lovely
Garden.” Watson Street then read the first scripture lesson, dealing with the Resurrection prophesied. Following the scripture reading Mr. Bills
sang his first solo, “Where E’er You Walk,” from Handel's “Semele.” The second scripture dealt with the fact of the
Resurrection. The band then played the Largo movement from Dvorak’s Fifth Symphony, “From the New World.” The third scripture reading
was concerning the spiritual implications of the Resurrection fact. It was followed by Mr. Bills singing the “Invocation of Orpheus,”
by Peri. The congregation then joined in singing the doxology. The service was concluded with the playing of the Hallelujah
Chorus, from the “Messiah” of Handel, by the band, and the benediction by Prof. Schenck.

Millions of people every day enjoy the refreshment of ice-cold Coca-Cola, And it’s always ready for you around the corner
from anywhere. America’s favorite moment the pause that refreshes

“Ask Us to Help You Make Better Pictures”
W. I. VAN NESS & CO.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

TRIPS MADE BY TWO PROFS AND QUARTET
Dr. Brown Addresses Greensboro Alumni; Dr. Hood Goes to Atlanta

Dr. C.K. Brown and Dr. F. P. Hood both made trips away from the campus last week. Dr. Brown attended
the alumni meeting in Greensboro on Founder's Day, April 9. The Davidson quartet accompanied Dr. Brown and rendered several numbers
to the assembly. The meeting presented the news from the college. He also brought before the alumni the condition of
the college and told them of the plans for the future. Dr. Henry Louis Smith, a past president of the
college, was present and also made a short address to the alumni.

Dr. Hood attended the meeting of the Southern Society of Philosophy and Psychology. The meeting was held at the Henry
Grady Hotel in Atlanta, but the society was officially the guests of Agnes Scott College. The society is the only
one of its kind in the United States where both groups meet in a joint session and has been in
existence for over 50 years. Dr. Hood was asked to prepare a paper for the next meeting to be held
at the University of South Carolina. The principal subject discussed at the meeting was: That southern colleges do not seem
to be taking the teaching of Philosophy very seriously. After the meeting, Dr. Hood was a guest at a dinner
of the officers and directors of the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta.

Daughter of Major Cochran Here

Mrs. R. N. Cadwallader, daughter of Major F. M. Cochran, R. O. T. C. instructor, and her two sons arrived
in Davidson last week from the Philippines to spend a month or more with her mother and father. Mrs. Cadwallader
left Manila over two months ago with her children for her first voyage to the United States since she left
in 1929 at the time of her marriage. She is reported to have had a very pleasant crossing and to
be happy to be back home again. Her husband's parents were paid a visit by Mrs. Cadwallader before she arrived
here. They live in Dallas, Texas. Mr. Cadwallader is engaged in private business in the Philippines and is not accompanying
his wife on her trip. He imports American-made manufactures and acts as general agent.Mr. Cadwallader is expected to follow his
wife over this summer, and they will return to the islands together in July. Major Cochran's small grandsons are five
years and seven months old. They sailed over on the ship Kota Agoing of the Holland Steamship Line. Foreign films
have been made a regular part of language courses.

ASSOCIATION MEMBERS ADDRESSED BY LINGLE

Makes Talk at Banquet of Business Officers

A banquet was given Friday night, April 10, by the Southern Educational Buyers and Business Officers Association. At this banquet,
Dr. W. L. Lingle addressed the group on “Services and Influence of a College Business Officer to His Institution.” Mr.
Thurman Sensing, the retiring president of the association, presided at the meeting. Mr. J. G. Nellum of Florida State College
for Women was elected president for the coming year. Mr. Sensing, who is from Peabody College at Nashville, Tenn., was
elected secretary.

Davidson was represented at the meeting by Mr. Jackson, who was accompanied by Mrs. Jackson. President and Mrs. Lingle attended,
and from the staff of the business office, Mr. and Mrs. McGill, Miss Thompson, Miss Finlayson, and Miss Arbuckle. Music
was furnished at the beginning of the banquet by the quartet of the Glee Club, accompanied by Kenneth Scott at
the piano. After the banquet, the group drove over part of the campus and then returned to Rock Hill, where
the regular meetings of the association were held.

RICHARDSON BROTHERS

(Continued from Page 1)

The Richardsons have been constantly interested in Davidson, from which they graduated, both having served as president of the Alumni
Association and as trustees of the college. In 1924, the athletic field here was presented to the college. The present
stadium was built in two sections, the first being completed in 1927 and the second in 1930. Plans for the
new addition to Davidson’s stadium have been under consideration for some time, but the contract for the work was not
signed until Tuesday, April 9. The field, which was dedicated in 1926, was given in memory of Lunsford Richardson, father
of the Richardson brothers, who was a member of the class of 1875 at Davidson. Both of the Richardsons were
active in a number of campus organizations during their student days; they were members of Kappa Sigma social fraternity.

COMMITTEE CHOOSES WINN

(Continued from Page 1)

The picture of campus organizations and the college life they may expect to find here includes statements from campus leaders,
both faculty and student. It also contains copies of the yells and songs used at football games. Paul Harlan, of
Jackson, Tenn., was last year’s editor of the Y Handbook. The editor of this publication automatically becomes a member of
the Y. M. C. A. Cabinet.

Marion 205 South Tryon Street

Just Arrived!!

A NEW SHIPMENT OF
- GABARDINES
- DOESKINS
- PALM BEACHES
- LIGHT WEIGHT WOOLENS

All are in the latest models for the college man. Colors: NEW PALM BEACH TIES, New Spring Shades, Solids, Stripes.
Washable for only $1.00.

MANHATTAN SHIRTS

The new Vericool shirts are here in all colors: Kent, Slotted, Down, Tab, and Duke Button processed. Plaids and stripes.

Davis Company
Charlotte, N. C.

School Songs On Broadcast

The College Radio Program last Friday was reminiscent of the band’s tour of the southern states, featuring songs of a
number of the places visited. The singing of the quartet, Charles Ramseur, Paul Hudson, John Allen, and Donald Pfohl, was
a highlight. At the beginning of the program, the school songs of Scott and McCallie were sung. Dr. Lingle announced
the drive for the new stadium, for funds for various needs of the college, the spring evangelistic services, the Easter
musical vesper service, the resignation of Grier Martin, alumni secretary, and the banquet for the Southern College Buyers and Business
Officers’ Association. The program closed with the singing of “Baylor” and the Montreat school song.

Rev. Peter Marshall To Conduct Vespers

The Rev. Peter Marshall, pastor of the Westminster Presbyterian Church of Atlanta, Ga., will conduct the Y. M. C. A.
vesper services in Chambers auditorium next Sunday evening, April 19. Marshall is familiar and popular on the Davidson campus, having
conducted the spring services of the Y. M. C. A. here last year, in addition to filling the pulpit at
a Sunday evening service earlier in the year. The theme of Sunday’s sermon has not yet been announced. Music at
the service will be under the direction of Professor Pfohl, with the Glee Club leading in the singing. The service
will start, as usual, at 8:00 PM.

VOWLES ON PUBLICATION

Dr. G. R. Vowles has been invited to become a member of the board of editors of The American Oxonian,
published quarterly by the Association of American Rhodes Scholars. The request came from Prof. Crane Brinton of Harvard, editor of
The American Oxonian. During recent years, several book reviews by Dr. Vowles have appeared in The American Oxonian, of both
English and German books. Other publications by Dr. Vowles have been reviews of German and Norwegian books in Book Abroad,
and articles in The Modern Language Journal, The German Quarterly, and Classical Philology.

A NATURAL DESIRE

Condemned Man: “Warden, I'd like a little exercise.”
Warden: “All right. What kind of exercise do you want?”
Condemned Man: “I'd like to skip the rope.”

Knox College is using alumni as “career” advisors.

RIFLEMEN END CONTEST YEAR

All Matches by Correspondence; Three Letters Awarded; Hope For Trip

The rifle team has completed its period of competition for this year. The team has put away its rifles until
next year, it was announced. There is a remote possibility that the team may take a trip and shoot two
or three more matches. The projected trip would include meeting teams representing Presbyterian Junior College and Wofford College. A rifle
match in Gastonia might also be included. The team has encountered trouble in attempts to take the trip due to
the inconvenience of finding a suitable time. They have not given up hope and are still planning on the trip.

The team has shot twenty matches by correspondence but has not shot any shoulder-to-shoulder matches. Among the correspondence shoots are:
University of Pittsburgh, Penn State, University of Wyoming, University of California, Montana State, and various other smaller colleges. They have
not shot against any of the Big Five schools. This actually means N. C. State, for no other Big Five
school has a rifle team. In the Fourth Corps area shoot, the Davidson team placed third from the last but
did shoot 3,295 out of a possible 4,000 points.

NINE MEN SELECTED

(Continued from Page 1)

Nine men were elected to serve on the Alumni Council. The reason for their election is that the constitution of
the Alumni Council states that those who are president of the student body, editor of The Davidsonian, president of the
Y. M. C. A., president of the Athletic Association, and president of the senior class shall automatically become a member
of the Council. The remaining four men were elected from four groups: captain of varsity sports; Prosser Morrow, sports and
publications managers; J. J. Partridge, Pan-Hellenic Council; P. Y. Harlan, from varsity debaters and the ten highest men in scholastic
standing. The tenth man will be selected by these nine men.

SUN GLASSES
SUN SHADES
TOILETRIES
5 & 10c STORE
Prompt and Cheerful Service

Basketball Team Opens Spring Practice

On Monday, April 13, the basketball team started spring practice under the direction of Coach Flake Laird. This early basketball
practice is for all those boys who are interested in this sport and who are not out for other spring
activities. This practice is mainly for those boys who played on the freshman and varsity teams during the fall. The
players will be drilled in the fundamentals of the game, such as passing, shooting for the basket, and floor work.
Every night, practice will be held at seven-thirty in the gymnasium. Coach Laird hopes all the students will come out
and take part in this work.

BOARD ELECTS

(Continued from Page 1)

Andy Allen, Der Meyers, Billy Hill, Bancroft Lyle, and Bobby Peters. Peters, of Bluefield, W. Va., was selected as business
manager of The Yowl. He is a member of Pi Kappa Phi, social fraternity. He succeeds Tom Lawrence in this
position.

Pressure from above caused C. C. N. Y. students to abandon the fitness program.

Fred B. R. of Pennsylvania State College says the next war will be won by the nation having the best
gasoline.

Dr. Merrell R. Fens of Pennsylvania State College says excess of fervor leads to insanity.

Dr. E. W. Twitchell, University of California neuropsychiatrist, says excess of fervor leads to insanity.
