WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 1936 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Seven

TRYOUTS FOR SIGMA DELTA PSI WILL BEGIN EARLY IN TRACK YEAR
Difficult Tests Required of Membership Candidates For Athletic Fraternity

A tea was given at the home of Mrs. Oscar Thies by Mrs. Thies and Mrs. Nelson Mebane for Mrs. William Buckner, who has been visiting in Davidson. Miss Peggy Beaty, seven-year-old daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Earnest Beaty, celebrated her birthday on Saturday evening at a Hallowe'en party at her home.

MEMBERSHIP IS LIMITED

Jim Johnston Is President of Organization

According to present plans, tryouts for Sigma Delta Psi, national honorary athletic fraternity, will be held, as usual, at the beginning of the spring track season.

Membership in the fraternity is limited to those who can pass the following tests: 100-yard dash—11 seconds; 120-yard low hurdles—16 seconds; running high jump—5 feet; running broad jump—17 feet; 16-pound shot put—30 feet; 20-foot rope climb—12 seconds; baseball throw—250 feet; javelin throw—130 feet; football punt—120 feet; 100-yard swim—1 minute 45 seconds; mile run—6 minutes; hand spring, landing on feet; fence vault, chin high; good posture, standard.

In addition to these qualifications, eligibility for varsity competition is required. The maximum substitution for any of the above is three varsity letters, or one intramural championship and two letters.

Members of the local chapter are: A. H. Whittle, of the faculty; and Jim Johnson, L. Fort, John Lee, K. H. Knorr, R. A. Melton, M. E. Peabody, B. F. Parcell, T. S. Walker, J. W. Hickman, and J. W. Dickson, of the student body. Jim Johnston is president of the organization.

TWO INITIATES ENTER SEMI-CLASSIC GROUP

The Eta Nu Pi society, local semi-classical group, held its regular meeting on Tuesday evening of last week. Two new members were admitted into the fellowship of this band of brethren. It was decided at the meeting that the society should be even more active this year than ever before. A special committee was appointed to arrange plans for the entertainment of the members and their guests on the weekend of November 7, Davidson’s Homecoming. Definite plans are being made to send a delegate of the local chapter to the National convention which convenes from January 21 to January 30 in Seattle, Washington.

For the benefit of the new men on the campus, Eta Nu Pi is a non-political and non-sectarian society open only to seniors who have made outstanding records since entering college.

Davidson High School Bonds Issued

The question of whether or not Mecklenburg county will issue the much-debated school bonds is a serious one, especially in regard to the Davidson High school.

In a recent speech before the Davidson Civic League, Prof. W. W. Wood reviewed facts concerning the school bond election and told of the benefits the Davidson school would receive in the event the election was carried. If this does come about, Davidson hopes to receive about $42,000 for improvements on the present public school system.

If you want to remember things, tie a string around your finger. If you want to forget, tie a rope around your neck.

Around Town

Mr. and Mrs. John P. Williams spent the weekend in Montreat at their cottage. Their three children, Margaret, John, and Timothy, went with them. Mr. Frank Buckner, alumnus of Davidson, spent the weekend with his mother, Mrs. A. B. Buckner. Mr. Buckner is connected with the Duke hospital.

Miss Mary Young, who has been in the Charlotte sanatorium for several weeks, has returned to her home in Davidson. She will probably spend several more weeks convalescing at her home.

Mr. Earnest Beaty of the faculty will deliver the Armistice Day sermon to the members of the American Legion on next Sunday morning in Huntersville.

The Twentieth Century club met on Friday afternoon at the home of Mrs. K. J. Foreman. Miss Maude Vinson delivered a paper on the poets of the Romantic Era.

Mr. and Mrs. D. A. Currie spent two days in Davidson after their honeymoon on their way to Washington, D. C. Their new address will be 1819 Riggs Place.

ALUMNUS TO CONDUCT SUNDAY NIGHT VESPERS

Speaking at Davidson for the first time in several years, the Rev. Mr. Pharr will conduct the college vesper service next Sunday night. Mr. Pharr is an alumnus of Davidson college, and donor of theTim Pharr trophy awarded annually to the best blocker on the varsity football squad. While in college, Mr. Pharr participated in young people's work, was a member of the Philanthropic society, and played on the varsity football squad for three years. His continued interest in football after graduation led him to make an annual blocking award. He is an alumnus of the local chapter of the Kappa Alpha social fraternity. Since leaving college, Mr. Pharr has been engaged in pastoral work and in evangelism.

FRENCHMAN TO LECTURE
(Continued from Page 1)
Roles have been definitely decided for the second play. These two plays will be presented. The most pressing needs are repairs on the high school building, a gymnasium, and a new negro school. An appropriation has been made to the Davidson relief committee and to the Christmas seals committee to furnish milk for undernourished children in the schools of the town.

Garland Court
Our Slogan “Every Job a Good One”
Standard Printing Company
Charlotte, N. C.

‘Uncle Enoch’ Likes Campus Camera
Cats Over ’Heels
William Hobart

Sportswriters take heed! Here is a sure pick for you—Davidson to beat Carolina Saturday. We have it straight from old Uncle Enoch who has been here longer than the New Chambers building over which he holds sway and certainly ought to know what he is talking about. Uncle Enoch asserts that since Davidson lost the Furman game there are just no two ways about it. It’s our turn next. But just to make sure, Uncle is going out on that field Saturday morning and carry a frog ‘better than a rabbit's foot,’ he claims, from “goal pole to goal pole” and back again, then deposit the frog by one of the poles, naturally. Uncle promises to remove the frog if we get to running up too big a score. Look out Carolina.

W.A. Eddy Announces New Requirement For Degree

A UNIVERSITY PROFESSOR FROM AUSTRALIA TRAVELED 12,000 MILES TO ATTEND THE EMPIRE UNIVERSITIES CONGRESS AT LONDON, ONLY TO FIND THAT HE WAS A YEAR AHEAD OF TIME. THE MISUNDERSTANDING WAS CAUSED BY A TYPIST’S ERROR.

C. S. Goodrum

“Ho fae Ouro rek Gece Att pose Blank”

DAVIDSON SENIORS
(Continued from Page 1)

Carleton Chapman, graduate of last year’s class, is attending St. John’s College at Oxford as a Rhodes scholar from Davidson. A candidate must be unmarried, between 19 and 25 years of age, and must have completed at least the second year of a college course. The basis for selection involves four considerations: (1) scholarship; (2) character; (3) leadership; (4) interest in outdoor sports. Two Rhodes scholars are selected each year from North Carolina and one from South Carolina. At the present time, Davidson has had four Rhodes scholars, beginning in 1907 when there were two selected, one from North Carolina and one from South Carolina.

WELCOME ALUMNI
The Little Pep Sandwich Shop
DAVIDSON, N. C.
MEET HERE AFTER THE DANCES—OPEN ALL NIGHT FRIDAY; TIL 2 A.M. SAT. NIGHT

HOMECOMING
Welcome Alumni... Meet Your Old Friends Here
REMEMBER US? WE REMEMBER YOU
White Drug Store
Davidson, N.C.

Light Smoke! Guard that throat! Block that cough...that raw irritation...reach for a light smoke...a Lucky! Whether you're shouting, cheering the team, or just talking and singing and laughing at home, there’s a tax on your throat you can hardly ignore. So when choosing your smoke, it pays to think twice. Reach for a Lucky...and get the welcome protection that only Luckies offer—the exclusive protection of the process, “It’s Toasted.” Next time you go places, take plenty of Luckies. They not only taste good, but keep tasting good all day long...for Luckies are a light smoke and a light smoke leaves a clear throat—a clean taste.

NEWS FLASH!
“I’ve only missed sending in my entry 3 times”—Sailor

Uncle Sam's sailors find time to try their skill in Your Lucky Strike “Sweepstakes.” Seaman Spangenberger of the U.S.S. Mississippi, an enthusiastic “Sweepstakes” fan, writes: “I’ve only missed sending in my entry three times—I mail them in whenever the ship is in American waters.” Have you entered yet? Have you won your delicious Lucky Strikes? Tune in "Your Hit Parade"—Wednesday and Saturday evenings. Listen, judge, and compare the tunes—then try Your Lucky Strike “Sweepstakes.” And if you're not already smoking Luckies, buy a pack today and try them. Maybe you've been missing something.

“IT’S TOASTED”
No Throat Irritation - No Cough

The truth is that a student is automatically attractive by need.