Page Four THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 1936

WILDCATS LOSE THRILLER TO FURMAN HURRICANE

SPORTS AFIELD

DAVIDSON ALL SET TO STOP TAR HEELS

DAVIDSON READY TO UPSET CAROLINA

It con but no a tantalizing 1. The sti IVE the Ig Me point them gained. It wasn't a case of taking the Hurricane lightly—we knew what a battle we could expect.

Slight Slump

Captain Dick Johnson put his finger on the trouble spot when he remarked that in our last two games we looked like a million dollars in plays and then seemed to settle into a slump. This has certainly been true against Citadel and Furman. It’s going to take every effort, for Coach Dizzy McLeod turned an inspired team loose Saturday. The House plentiful and varied forced King, that beat Davidson, and blocked punts. Bob CKS in a way resulted in the two things—intercepted passes and blocked punts.

Ed Armfield was the outstanding performer of the game. His 95-yard (or was it 100 yards?) gallop through the entire Furman team for the second touchdown was the most brilliant single play of the whole fray. King had been booting the kick-offs out of the end zone consistently, but on this occasion (after Furman’s second touchdown) he kicked somewhere between the goal and the 5-yard line. Here Ed gathered in the twirling pigskin, hesitated a minute to set his course, and then set sail under full steam for the Furman goal 95 yards distant. Splitting the middle to midfield, Ed veered to his left and sped down the sidelines. He picked up Dave Warden out in front, and Dave blocked the closest pursuer. A Furman man caught Armfield on the 5-yard line, but Ed merely dragged him over the goal.

Johnston really excelled in his performance at their guard and initial Yertz backfield. Furman football was unfortunate that the fate befalling the team was missing the deciding try for extra point, but the blame for the loss certainly doesn't deserve to fall on his shoulders. John Lee, his fellow townsman, also shares in the praise for outstanding play against Furman. He has had the tough job of smashing interference all season, not directed at him but he also stopped many bucks and on Saturday he stopped the entire line up and down the line.

William and King, the two all-around ends, showed their value when Davidson's Bailey Williams tangled with the truly great Sob King. Bailey's catch of Lafferty’s pass in the midst of three defenders almost on Furman’s goal line was unbelievable. He proceeded to dodge three would-be tacklers, tear loose from another, and raced the remaining 34 yards for the first score. King was the charger who blocked Lafferty’s punt on the 25, and when the bounding spheroid crossed the goal, he fell on it for the Paladins’ first touchdown.

The game only served to emphasize the true worth of Dick Johnson and “Crutch” Corbin. The re-

Fraternities Near End of Grid Season

Phi Delts Reach Final Bracket

Will Oppose Phi Gams Or S. P. E.’s

Phi Delts Win

Phi Delta Theta’s have swept aside all in their path and now stand in the final bracket. Their opponents will be the winner between the Sigma Phi Epsilon and the Phi Gamma Delta game. The final game promises to be a battle of wits, for all teams have a smart eleven and will not be defeated without a hard struggle.

Phi Delt’s started the ball rolling with a close victory over the Sigma Alpha Epsilons by a score of 6-0. The outstanding players were Captain Bill and freshman Lock Hunter who skirted his end and scored the only touchdown of the game. The Phi Delts' second victory was at the expense of the Kappa Alphas. Lock Hunter threw a pass to Tinney over the goal line for the only score of the game.

Phigams Cop

The Phi Gams decisively out-

(Continued on Page 6)

Volley Ball to Begin In Two Class Games

Frosh Play Seniors, Juniors Meet Sophs; Basket Ball

Intramural volleyball will begin this afternoon when the Seniors play the Freshmen and the Juniors meet the Sophomores. Intramural Director Whittle says that volleyball has been one of the most popular intramural sports. A great deal of interest has been taken in this sport in past years, and all are urged to come out.

Intramural basketball teams are also being organized. Joy and Lee will lead the Freshmen, Barrow and Lee the Juniors, and Armstrong and Hancock the Seniors. All classes are expected to practice this week at the gym, on the days set aside for that class’ practice.

North Carolina's big two continued to show the way to other Southern Conference teams, as Duke trounced Washington & Lee, 51-0, and the University of North Carolina trounced N. C. State, 21-6. W. & L. was never in the ball game as the Blue Devils scored almost at will, running their second stringers most of the contest. After being completely outplayed by a hard-fighting Wolfpack team in the first half, Carolina let loose a devastating attack in the last two stanzas, putting the game on ice. Andy Bershak and Jim Hutchins led the last assault for the Tar Heels, while a valiant effort by Rysak, Ryneska, and Capt. Mac Vass and TomThurston for both Cat showed up well for State, played fine game but two such players as Dick and Tom would. Johnston shines, battling Furman team took advantage of numerous blocked punts. Wildcats furnished stiff opposition out the crippled P. C. before succumbing to the Wake Forest team. Scott in the backfield and King in the line were outstanding for the Purple Hurricane, while the brilliance of Armfield, who returned a kick-off 95 yards for a touchdown, and little Jim Johnston stood out for the Cats.

Folger Leads Way
Led by fullback Mac Folger, Clemson’s Tigers pulled the surprise of the week when they edged out the highly touted Yellow Jackets from Georgia Tech, 14-13. On Friday, the University of South Carolina defeated the Citadel in a hotly contested battle of sophomores. Jack Lyons paced the Gamecocks. V.M.I. put on a storybook finish to nose out a fighting University of Virginia team 12-6. With only thirty seconds to play, V.M.I.’s famous TELS Andy Trzeciak faded back and passed to Saunders for 15 yards and the winning touchdown. The game was played in Lexington.

Davidson Frosh to Scrap S. C. Frosh In Columbia Game
Frosh Backs Ineligible; Injuries Deplete Line
After a weekend with no football, Davidson Wildkittens return to the football wars Friday against South Carolina freshmen in Columbia. This game is scheduled to be played at night and will be played on the Gamecock Varsity field if the Varsity played off in the afternoon. The Wildkittens have so far lost two games and won only one. Friday night they will be fighting for the victory that will give them a 50% average. However, the South Carolina freshmen have a very strong team, having lost only one game this season. Also, the Wildkitten squad is riddled with injuries and ineligible players. Center Cagle sprained an ankle and will probably be out. Another center broke his arm earlier and is out of this game. Yates, another player, is out for the rest of the season. This leaves the Davidson freshmen with only one center, McGeachy. Scholastic difficulties took Rackley and Garrett, first string backs, and Miller, a tackle, from the squad. The only cheering note is the fact that Watkins, speedy little halfback who missed most of the Duke game due to an injured leg, will be back and ready to go again in this game.

Carolina Sends Powerful Eleven Boasting a Clean Record In Conference
Wildcats Work on Plays Designed to Surprise Vaunted Tar Heels; Return of Corbin and Johnson to Line-up Will Bolster Team
BUCK AND BERSHAK ARE TAR HEEL STARS
Stellar Wingmen Along With Little, Burnett, and Hutchins Will Lead Offense
By far the most important feature of Davidson’s Homecoming festivities will be the battle between the Wildcats and the North Carolina Tar Heels. All indications point to one of the most thrilling and closely contested games of the year when these two Conference standouts line up Saturday afternoon.

Play Erratically
The vaunted Tar Heels of Coach Ray Wolf have been playing erratic ball all season. At times they show flashes of form reminiscent of last year's wonder team; but then they bog down and run through plays without the snap and timing of a championship eleven. Carolina has a galaxy of stars, especially at the ends and in the backfield. In Captain Dick Buck and Andy Bershak, star performers on last year’s team, the Tar Heels have in all probability the best pair of wingmen in the South this year. Both are deadly tacklers and their catching of passes is nothing short of phenomenal. The ability of these men is plainly shown by the negligible returns against Carolina this year.

Hutchins Pressed
In the backfield, there are a host of ball carriers with no standout performer. Hutchins, a 200-pound line smasher, has been a consistent ground gainer, but he is being hard-pressed to retain his first-team fullback position by the capable Art Ditt. The remainder of the backfield is equally good. Crowell Little, George Watson, and Tom Burnett complete the first string quartet, but Dick Dashiell has been playing inspired ball lately which may cause him to be shifted to the first team. Burnett is the man with the educated foot. He has converted each of the sixteen touchdowns Carolina’s team has scored this year, while his long-distance and coffin-corner punting have been largely responsible for the Tar Heels' excellent record.

Line Heavy
Carolina’s line has not come in for the share of praise which it deserves this year. The big white-jerseyed forward wall has paved the way for wins over Tennessee, Wake Forest, Maryland, N.Y.U., and N.C. State this year. They will outweigh the “Red and Black” linemen by several pounds Saturday. The Furman game showed the important part that Captain Dick Johnson and Tom Corbin play in the Davidson lineup. With them in the game and the psychological effect which Richardson Field always gives the Wildcats, they will have almost an even chance of emerging victorious. Those who know the power which the Wildcats pack are looking for them to open up with a dazzling attack which will surprise the Tar Heels plenty. The fighting spirit of the Wildcats makes them a threat from start to finish, and with the returning alumni, they have a very good chance of trouncing the Tar Heels.

WELCOME ALUMNI
BUFF SHOE SHOP
“When It’s Done By Buff That’s Enuff”
O. C. BUFF, Prop.

EXCELLENT FOODS
FIRST CLASS SERVICE
AMERICAN CAFE

WELCOME ALUMNI
JOHNSTON’S BARBER SHOP
A TRADITION OF COLLEGE MEN

“I lost my shirt... and found P. H. HANES KNITTING CO., Winston-Salem, N. C.