DAVIDSON ADVANCES TO THIRD PLACE FROM FIFTH IN SOUTHERN CONFERENCE

The Davidsonian

LIBERTAS

THE DAVIDSONIAN EXTENDS GREETINGS TO MEMBERS OF N. C. C. P. A. IN CONFERENCE

VOL. XXIV DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., OCTOBER 21, 1936 NO. 5

DAVIDSON COLLEGE WILL ACT HOST TO N.C.C.P.A. CONCLAVE

LeGette Blythe of The Charlotte Observer Will Be the Main Speaker

HOKE ROBINSON IS HOST

Editors and Business Managers to Attend

The Davidsonian will play host to the 32nd annual convention of the North Carolina Collegiate Press Association which will be held October 22-24 in Charlotte. LeGette Blythe, of The Charlotte Observer staff, will be the principal speaker at the main banquet of the convention.

College Members

Membership of the association includes the most important schools in the state: Duke, Wake Forest, North Carolina State, Meredith, Flora Macdonald, Queens-Chicora, Women’s College of the University of North Carolina, Salem, Guilford, High Point, Carolina Teachers’ College, Appalachian State Teachers’ College, and Davidson.

Eastern College,

Officers Named

Officers for this year are as follows: President, James Mason of Wake Forest; vice president, Pete Ihrie of State; treasurer, Herbert Upchurch of Duke; secretary, Mary Morris Terry of Flora Macdonald, and host, Hoke Robinson of Davidson.

2:30 to 6 o'clock, delegates will register at the Hotel Charlotte. At 6 o'clock there will be an informal reception and welcome by Frederick Smith, alumni secretary of Davidson.

Schedule Presented

Friday morning will be the first business session, at which the delegates will divide into four discussion groups, made up respectively of newspaper editors, magazine editors, annual editors, and business managers of all publications. Each group will be supervised by a competent discussion leader.

Friday, Davidson College will give the convention a banquet in Chambers auditorium.

(Continued on Page 6)

BIBLE LECTURE

Lingle Reopens Lecture Series For Ministers

The lecture series for ministers was reopened Tuesday, October 13, when Dr. Thomas W. Lingle spoke on “Racial Elements in Bible Lands.” About thirty ministers attended this initial meeting. The speakers and the subjects of their addresses are as follows:

Oct. 20—Prof. Robert White: “Abundant Life;”
Nov. 10—Dr. Frazier Hood: “The Bible Read Through the Eyes of a Psychologist;”
Nov. 24—Dr. E. F. Shewmake: “English and the Minister;”
Dec. 8—Dr. H. B. Arbuckle: “Chemistry in the Service of Man;”
Jan. 5—Dr. K. J. Foreman: “Some Color-Blind Spots of White Christians.”

On January 19, Dr. C. K. Brown will speak on “Economic Collectivism as a Philosophy and a Programme;”
Feb. 2—Prof. H. E. Fulcher: “Man's Place in the Universe;”
Feb. 16—Dr. P. H. Gwynn: “The Pastor and Personal Psychology;”
March 2—Prof. E. A. Beaty: “A Comparison of Roman Virtues and Christian Virtues;”
March 16—Rev. C. W. McMurray: “Studying Archaeology in Palestine.”

Bands Will Feature Citadel Game Here

Spectators at the Davidson-Citadel game here Saturday will witness quite an elaborate band exhibition in which at least seven, and possibly nine high-school bands will participate. The high school bands which are expected to be present are those from the following schools: Monroe, Charlotte Central, Charlotte Alexander Graham Junior, Kings Mountain, Lincolnton, Salisbury, Winston-Salem and possibly Greensboro and High Point.

Photographer Snaps 615 Student Photos

A total of 615 persons had their pictures taken by the photographer from Dunbar and Daniels of Raleigh for the Quips and Cranks during the last week. This means that about 2,460 pictures, or an average of four pictures per person, were taken. Only ten or fifteen from each class failed to have their pictures made. The proofs for these pictures will be back within a week, and any orders for separate photographs will be taken at that time.

The group pictures of the fraternities, those of the faculty, athletic teams, and any retakes that will be necessary will be made about the second week in November.

MAGAZINE DUE TO BE ISSUED

Homecoming to Be Feature of Scripts ’n Pranks, Successor to “Yowl”

The editorial staff of Scripts ’n Pranks has announced that the first issue of the new campus humor publication, devoted to the Homecoming theme, will appear in the very near future.

This issue will feature some very interesting stories of campus life from the pens of such able writers as Wade Barrow, Dick Vowles, and Sam Ryburn. Harold Sugg will have a column entitled “Dictated, But Not Read,” and Bob Johnson will preside over the sports department to bring forth notes on football.

Pete McKnight and Bill McIlwinen are collaborating on a column of musical comments headed “Notes To You,” guiding the reader in his search for more and better music to soothe his savage breast. McIlwinen is reviewing some of the current best-sellers and at the same time contributing several poems to the magazine. The art in this issue promises to be one of the best and most diverse collections of cartoons and illustrations, for Sam Ryburn, a veteran caricaturist, has been experimenting in some new ideas and has produced a set of very effective drawings.

The main feature of this issue, however, will be a photographic section devoted to the Davidson football team, those “Men of Iron” and the sponsors for the Homecoming game with the University of North Carolina.

HON. J. A. LATIMER DELIVERS ADDRESS HERE

The Honorable J. Austin Latimer, special assistant to James A. Farley, Postmaster-General of the United States, addressed the Davidson College student body during the chapel period Friday morning.

Mr. Latimer is a native South Carolinian and a very good friend of Davidson College. He said that he came very near attending Davidson, going as far as selecting his room, but circumstances prevented his coming at the last moment.

Mr. Latimer began his speech by saying that he had no intention of making a political speech, but wished to talk as man-to-man with the students. He spoke of the fine ideals and spirit at Davidson and how proud he was to have his son attend this institution. Mr. Latimer warned us to be preparing ourselves to enter the world and be ready to take an active part in its affairs. He pointed out how the present administration has done so much for the youth of America. Later he likened Roosevelt in three respects to Christopher Columbus.

PAN-HELLENIC COUNCIL GETS JIMMY POYNER TO PLAY MUSIC FOR HOMECOMING DANCES

State Orchestra Has Played For Dances at Davidson In the Past

ALUMNI ARE EXPECTED

Dances Will Be Held in Charlotte Armory

The Pan-Hellenic Council has announced the engagement of Jimmy Poyner and his orchestra to play for the Homecoming dances. Jimmy Poyner will play Friday night for a formal dance to be held in the Charlotte Armory from 10 until 2 o'clock. On Saturday night he will provide the music from 9 until 12 o'clock at an informal dance.

The orchestra comes from North Carolina State College and is very popular in this state and adjoining states. Jimmy Poyner has played for Davidson dances before and has always furnished the best of rhythm. He has been greatly appreciated by those attending the dances.

This set of dances will be given on Friday, November 6, and Saturday, November 7. They will come as one of the highlights in the opening of the Centennial celebration. It will be the first formal and informal dances with excitement running high over Homecoming and the football game which is to be played here on November 7. It is expected that the high representation of alumni will have a strong presence on the floor.

The student body is already laying plans to have a “grand and glorious” time at these dances. Remembering the crowded conditions in the past, the Council has made special efforts to secure the Armory and are sure of having ample floor space for the enthusiastic dancers.

CARLETON CHAPMAN ARRIVES AT OXFORD

Letter Tells of Plans For Work in England

Word has been received that Carleton Chapman, last year’s student body president, has arrived at Oxford University, England, and will begin work there immediately.

In his recent letter, Chapman states, “Everything exceeds my most extravagant expectations. St. John’s was a most happy choice for me, and I’m sure I will certainly be very contented here.”

“So far, the English weather has been perfect. It is beginning to cloud up a bit now, however, and is turning colder. At that, it’s not nearly as cold as it usually is back home in Alabama. I am beginning to think that the differences between English and American modes of living are grossly exaggerated (in America).”

Chapman also stated that his course appeared to be pretty hard. He intends to do rowing for his athletics unless it takes too much time. A series of three or four articles by Chapman will appear later in The Davidsonian.

CHEMISTRY SCHOLARSHIP AWARDED TO LAFFERTY

R. H. Lafferty, a member of the Senior class from Charlotte, and a member of Pi Kappa Alpha, was the recipient of the David Halbert Howard Memorial Scholarship of $250, which was given by Mrs. D. H. Howard, Sr., of Lynchburg, Va., in memory of her son.

The scholarship was given to Lafferty by a committee composed of the members of the faculty who teach Chemistry. It is not only given for high grades in Chemistry, but also to one who is devoting himself to chemical work, and who also has made high grades in his other courses.

POLITICAL CAMPAIGN TO BE INITIATED ON CAMPUS

Tyler Port and Harold Sugg To Make Campus Politics-Conscious

FAMOUS MEN TO SPEAK

Climax Will Be Reached Early

A whirlwind political campaign sponsored by The Davidsonian, will be begun this week in an effort to make the Davidson College student body more politics-conscious. The climax of the campaign will be reached on Tuesday night, when a widely known speaker will address the students for the Roosevelt cause, and on Wednesday night, when a Landon representative will present his case to the voters of this district. The names of these speakers have not as yet been divulged.

Until then, The Davidsonian has procured the services of Harold Sugg and Tyler Port as the student Democratic and Republican chairmen respectively. These two exponents of the forensic art will attempt to align the support for their causes and have already begun kissing the babies and passing out two-for-a-nickel cigars.

Landon View

Although swinging at the end of a two-thirds majority for the glad-handing egotist who presides over the Washington alphabetical phantasmagoria, Chairman Port of the Republican committee and his executives believe that the straw vote results are indicative of mere political bamboozlement and not clear thinking. Says Chairman Port, in regard to the forthcoming campus rally, “Industry and Jeffersonian Democracy constitute an economic backbone which the wool-gathering and draft-creating Farleyism plus Suggism can never consciously dissipate.” Never has there been a day when the amalgamated hooey of perverted wiseacering proletarians has come closer than now to turning the streams of the South forever into the approach of Republican rationalism.Unrelenting emotionalism so far into the night. Supporters appear gathering about him, an imposing array of committeemen: Bill Nickolson, Bob Dickson, Wade Barrow, Butch Abernethy, and Hal Overton. Chairman Port plans to go great guns in a clean, aggressive, and (Continued on Page 6).

DELTA PHI ALPHA BIDS EIGHTEEN HONOR MEN
Formal Meeting of Year On October 26

During the past week, Deutscher Verein, the Delta Phi Alpha, national honor society in German, and the German club, extended bids to 18 German students at Davidson and one faculty member. The Delta Phi Alpha bids were extended to men who have studied German for two years and have made high grades during these years. Students receiving these bids were: R. S. Bigham, T. B. Daniel, J. M. Hall, W. D. Herring, H. N. Hill, W. B. Kiesewetter, J. F. Reinhardt, W. M. Wicker, and W. A. Wilkerson. Professor E. A. Ty, a member of the faculty, was also invited to join since he is teaching German this year. Invitations to join the club were extended to students who have made high grades but have not studied German for two years. Students receiving these bids were: J. D. Allen, O. H. Bell, Beady Brown, W. A. Grell, L. V. McLean, T. F. Thompson, S. C. Webb, J. C. Winn, and R. B. Vowles. The club will hold its first formal meeting of the year on Monday evening, October 26, at the home of Dr. G. R. Vowles, who is head of the German department.

PLAY BY SHAKESPEARE WILL BE PRODUCED BY STUDENT DRAMATISTS IN SCHOOL AUDITORIUM
Red and Black Masquers Will Produce “A Midsummer Night’s Dream”

PLAY WILL BE REDUCED
Mystery Play, “The Real ‘Q’,” Will Be Produced Also

“A Midsummer Night’s Dream” has been chosen by the Red and Black Masquers for their first major production of the year, to be presented at a date not yet determined. Believing that the great success achieved by the motion picture version of Shakespeare's famous play is a more or less accurate estimate of the way it would be received by the dramatic students, the executive committee of the Davidson Dramatic Club chose this play to start the season. The actual outline of the play that will be used in Chambers auditorium was worked out by Melwin, who is the director of the production. This form of the play will take over 45 minutes to present, according to Melwin, but none of Shakespeare’s lines have been changed and no part necessary to a complete understanding of the original scheme has been omitted.

NINE STUDENTS ARE RECIPIENTS OF BIDS TO PHI BETA KAPPA
Straw Vote Returns Are To Be Withheld

Because many of the faculty have not turned in their votes in the canvass of the presidential election, and because two speakers will address the students and friends of Davidson, the results of the straw vote are being withheld until next week. At this time, the returns from colleges all over the United States will also be published and a comparison will be made with the results on the Davidson campus. Plans are being made for prominent Democratic and Republican speakers to address the students here next week. Feeling is running high in the local student body and it is hoped that no serious conflicts will result.

E. V. McSWEEN LEADS VESPER
Draws Text From Mark; States Single Fault May Keep Christ Out

The Rev. Dr. John McSween, alumni, former members of the Mimir Society, also received bids.

BIDS EXTENDED FRIDAY
Nine Men Are Campus and Scholastic Leaders

Bids to Phi Beta Kappa, national honorary fraternity for excellence in scholarship, were given last Friday, October 16. A list of the nine students who were bid was read at the chapel hour. In this annual fall election, bids were given to nine men now attending the college and to eight alumni.

Recipients Listed
The students bid are E. A. Brown, Hsuchowfa, China; E. B. Branch of Washington, D.C.; R. S. Bigham of Charlotte; J. C. Winn, Greenville, S.C.; K. M. Scott, Korea; R. H. Patterson, of Trenton, Tenn.; T. G. Thurston, Taylorsville; J. D. Allen, Louisville, Ky.; and C. B. Ross, Charlotte. All of these men have an average of over 95 for their entire time here. Of the eight alumni, seven are members of the class of 1922, who were in the Mimir Society. All other members of the Mimirs had been bid, in the past, to Phi Beta Kappa.

Alumni Included
The alumni extended bids are Professor J. C. Bailey of Davidson; James Sprunt, Lynchburg, Va.; Dr. R. R. Deaver, Jr., of Florence, S.C.; Dr. J. P. Price, Florence, S.C.; Mr. J. Y. Wilson; Mr. J. P. McAlpine of Greenville, Tenn. All of these men are members of the class of '22, except Mr. Wilson.

Activities Reviewed
The students winning this honor are active in other phases of college activity too. Brown is a member of the track team, the Red and Black Masquers, and Eta Sigma Phi.

DEBATING HOPEFULS
Twenty-Five Men Expected to Seek Positions

Varsity debate tryouts will be held in the second week of November and all men interested in becoming members of the team are requested to begin preparation of their arguments. Gene Vogler, head cheerleader, announced that the Citadel game will furnish spirit Friday night at the event prior to this tryout. The young men are expected to keep up the spirit they have shown in past games. We have added reason for this Citadel game as they have twice held out the last two years. If the total number of men trying out will be reduced to six regulars and three alternates.

PFOHL DECLARES SALON ORCHESTRA FINEST YET
Pfohl, director, announced that this year’s salon orchestra is to be the finest yet produced at Davidson, although it has held practice sessions for little more than two weeks. The group, composed of twenty pieces, is to accompany the Glee Club on its tours. Members are: R. G. Rosser, W. C. Link, W. S. Edwards, W. C. Ezell, G. L. Milne, W. B. Scherer, D. C. Colvin, and H. H. White, violins; J. H. Ross, viola; W. P. Babcock, cello; R. R. Purdy, bass; W. V. Ludlam and E. W. Fisher, flutes; R. Laws, oboe; S. E. Harris, bassoon; H. W. Bradley and J. J. Martin, clarinets; E. M. Yow, horn; Rex Beach, trumpet; and J. W. Helms, trombone.

SIGMA PI SIGMA INVITES DUKE PROFESSOR HERE
Dr. R. W. Grave, professor of neurology at Duke University, has been asked to address the student body in chapel, December 11, in honor of the founding of Sigma Pi Sigma here in 1921, fifteen years ago. Dr. Grave is a graduate and a Bio-Physicist. He has done work in both medicine and physics. He first studied physics here (elected Phi Beta Kappa) and then changed to medicine and took internships in both fields.

DANCE COMMITTEE IS SELECTED FOR SOPHS
The dance committee for the sophomore class has been announced by Bob McClellan, president. Members of the committee are: E. J. Webb, Pi Kappa Alpha, chairman; Frank Harrison, Tom Abbott, Beta Theta Pi; Dick Taylor, Kappa Alpha; Lem Kornegay, Sigma Alpha Epsilon; Ray Pittman, Kappa Sigma; Bob Gish, Pi Kappa Phi; Cage Brewer, Phi Gamma Delta; Mark Lillard, Phi Delta Theta; and Terrell Porter, Sigma Phi Epsilon. The date for the dance has been tentatively set for the first week in December.