STUDENT ELECTIONS GET UNDER WAY; GENE VOGLER CHEER LEADER VOL. XXIII JUNIOR CLASS PLANS DANCES FOR WEEK-END; Tommy Tucker and
Orchestra To Play For Centennial Set ELABORATE DECORATING Russell Patterson to Lead Unique Figure

The Junior Class of Davidson College will sponsor their annual houseparty of three dances at the Charlotte Armory Auditorium, March
13 and 14, featuring the music of Tommy Tucker and his orchestra. This well-known band has recently completed a record
engagement at the Hotel Statler in Cleveland, Hollywood Restaurant in New York, and Wardman Park Hotel in Washington. This orchestra
played Sunday night as the guest orchestra on the Guli program with Phil Baker.

Junior Speaking will start Friday night, March 13, with a formal dance at the Charlotte Armory. This affair will begin
promptly at ten and will continue until two o'clock. A feature of the dance will be the unique figure to
be led by Russell Patterson and his date, Miss Mary Louise McLandon, which will be formed just before the intermission.
The committee has made arrangements to decorate the Armory and extensive plans have been made to give the huge building
a festive atmosphere. The motif of green and white, the class colors, will prevail.

On Saturday afternoon Tommy Tucker and his orchestra will again play. This affair will begin at four-thirty and will continue
until six-thirty that evening. The third dance in the Centennial series will be sponsored Saturday night from eight-thirty until twelve.

In the Sunday edition of The Charlotte Observer, there were pictures of nine girls who will be the sponsors for
the week-end. The following girls will act as sponsors for the Centennial dance committee: Phi Gamma Delta, Miss Mary Louise
McLandon, of Greensboro, with Russell Patterson; Beta Theta Phi, Miss Alice Cowles Barringer, of Charlotte, with Dave Sellars; Phi Kappa
Alpha, Miss Rose, of Raleigh, with Ken Knorr; Kappa Alpha, Miss Elizabeth Gammon, of Charlotte, with J. C. Crowell; Sigma
Alpha Epsilon, Miss Anne Atkins, of Atlanta, Ga., with Ed Armfield; Kappa Sigma, Miss Beda Carlson, of Greensboro, with Carl
Carlson; Pi Kappa Phi, Miss Dotty Blackman, of Rock Hill, with Joe Hunter; Phi Delta Theta, Mary Whitmore, of Charlotte,
with (Continued on Page 2)

Reich College Renews Offer Heidelberg Again Offers Year’s Free Tuition to Davidson Students

Heidelberg University, Heidelberg, the oldest university in Germany, is again offering a year’s free scholarship for 1936-37 to a Davidson
student. Emmet Horine, of Davidson, is spending his Junior year on such a scholarship at Heidelberg. Furthermore, the University has
written, under the date of Feb. 20, offering three free summer school scholarships to Davidson students. The summer session begins
June 29 and closes August 8. The last week is spent at the Olympic games in Berlin, though the student
has to buy his own tickets to the games. Just preceding the summer school session, the University of Heidelberg will
celebrate its 550th anniversary with festivities lasting three days, to which representatives from the entire cultured world have been invited.
Students interested in any of the scholarships should confer with Dr. G. R. Vowles.

Miss. return to Europe for his third year

SPRING YOWL NUMBER TO MAKE APPEARANCE

The spring number of The Yowl will appear the first part of next week. The Yowl is to feature short
stories by Treadway Purnell, Gib Smith, and Harold Sugg, with the book reviews written by Pete McKnight. It will also
contain poetry by Arthur Haake, Bill McIlwinen, and Treadway Purnell. The Editor also announced that they are cutting down on
the number of cartoons and putting in more serious material. The cartoons were submitted by Dick Vowles, Sam Ryburn, and
Hal Overton, who also did the cover.

Chapman Goes To St. John’s Davidson Rhodes Scholar Is Accepted By College of His Choice

Carleton Chapman, President of the Davidson Student Body and recently selected Rhodes Scholar from the sixth district, received notice last
week that his application for admittance to St. John's College, Oxford, has been accepted. Chapman received the following letter from
Oxford: “I have the pleasure to inform you that your Rhodes papers have been submitted in accordance with your list
of colleges, and that you have been accepted by St. John's College. Will you please communicate direct with the Senior
Tutor of your college with regard to any questions which may arise as to your work and proposed studies. I
should myself, however, be glad to be informed of your plans and to help you with any information you may
need. A little later I will write to you about one or two points of importance in connection with the
Rhodes Scholarships.” Yours truly, Q. K. Allen.

Chapman, as well as all of the Rhodes Scholars, was required immediately on appointment to submit a list of eight
colleges in order of preference, St. John's College was the Davidson man’s first selection. Oxford University is a series of
colleges, all connected under the one University head. Dr. G. R. Vowles of our faculty, and Dean Rusk, the last
member of the Davidson student body to be chosen as a Rhodes Scholar, both attended this branch of the university.
Carleton plans to attend St. John’s College for two years, taking a B.D. in Physiology, and then return to this
country to complete his medical work and serve his internship. After finishing this, he is to somewhere on the continent.
He will practice medicine in this country.

Nominating Committee Announces Candidates For Student Offices

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA The Davidsonian LIBERTAS DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., MARCH 11, 1936

List Supplemented By Nominations From Floor at Chapel Monday

VOTING BEGINS TUESDAY Two Vice-Presidents Must Be Elected in Balloting

At a meeting of the Student Body held immediately after Chapel on last Monday morning nominations were made for student
Body officers to serve next year. These nominations by the nominating committee were first announced: For President: Wade Boggs, Jack
Branch, Carl Carlson, and Wilbur Edwards. For Vice-President: Wade Barrow, Bill Kieswetter, “Teeny” Lafferty and Buford Patterson. For Secretary-Treasurer: Tom
Abbot, Bob Abell, Warren Gaw. Then the following nominations from the floor added to the list of candidates: For President:
Russell Patterson, and Tyler Port. For Vice-President: Haywood Hill and Dick Vowles. For Secretary-Treasurer: Addison Long, Ned Iverson and Frank
Willingham.

The Nominating Committee, which is elected from the Student Council, was composed of these seven men: Paul Harlan, Chairman; Seniors:
Carlton Chapman, Bob Lindsay, and Coley Windham; Juniors: Wilbur Edwards and Kenneth Scott; Sophomore: “Teeny” Lafferty. Their nominations of four
for President, four for Vice-President, and three for Secretary-Treasurer, were the full number allowed them.

The balloting must continue until one candidate in each department has a majority of the votes cast. As soon as
the student-officers election is completed the “Y” Cabinet will be selected. Following this will come the election of the Editors
and the editorial staff of The Davidsonian; election of the Student Council will end the student elections after which will
come class elections. Voting began yesterday morning at chapel, but no results are available as The Davidsonian goes to press.
Two Vice Presidents will be elected from the list of candidates, the man receiving the highest vote becoming first Vice-President
and the man receiving the next highest vote becoming second Vice-President. Only men who are in the rising sophomore class
are eligible for the office of Secretary-Treasurer.

It must be true. Prof. Thomas A. Langlie of the Wesleyan University psychology department adds his voice to the chorus
of professors who say that cramming is futile. It “inhibits the memory.” Admission requirements of American universities have reached a
dangerously low level, according to Frank Bowles, Columbia authority.

Rev. C. F. Myers Speaks At Vespers On Sunday

The Reverend Charles F. Myers, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Greensboro, spoke at Vespers Sunday night in the
auditorium, taking as his text the twenty-second verse of the forty-ninth chapter of Genesis: “Joseph is a fruitful bough, a
fruitful bough by a fountain; His branches run over the wall.”

The prelude, played by James C. Pfohl, was Widor's “Andante Cantabile,” following which was the call to worship by Dr.
Gwynn and the invocation. The choir led in the singing of “O Worship the King, All Glorious Above” and Psalm
I was the scripture reading chosen by Dr. Gwynn. The offering was then taken and another hymn sung.

Reverend Charles Myers is well-known to Davidson men and has spoken many times before at the school. His idea was
to view the whole subject of a father’s wish for his son, a theme keynoted by the prophecy of the
dying Jacob, as, with his sons gathered around him, he expressed his hopes and indicated to them what God had
allowed him to see concerning their earthly future. Joseph, called the dreamer, was his father's favorite; “his father loved him
more because he loved his father more,” said Dr. Myers. And Jacob's deathbed wish for his favorite son Joseph is
every father’s wish for his son today, he said—that he might also be a “fruitful bough” and take a position
of eminence in the world’s affairs, always provided he might have internal peace, peace of mind and of soul (that
sometimes does not go hand in hand with material success). In addition to success (Continued on Page 6)

As soon as the student-officers election is completed the “Y” Cabinet will be selected.

DEBATE GROUP RETURNS FROM TRIP IN SOUTH

Boggs and Port Represent Davidson in Three College Debates HARLAN IS WITH TEAM No Decisions Given For Interesting Forensic Contests

Wade Boggs and Tyler Port returned from the southern debating tour Friday, March 6, after having to cancel a meeting
with a team from Emory University because of unexpected delay in transportation. During this trip the Davidson debaters met teams
from the University of South Carolina, the University of Florida, and the University of Miami, but in none of these
debates was a decision given.

They met the South Carolina men on February 25, and, according to the contract, there was to have been a
decision by three judges. Instead, however, they were offered an audience decision which they refused, it being against the policy
of Davidson debaters to accept such decisions. Paul Harlan, President of the Forensic Council, who accompanied them on this trip,
said that, in his opinion, Boggs and Port clearly out-debated their opponents.

On February 28, they met the University of Florida at Gainesville, in a radio debate over Station WRUF. On the
29th, they debated with men from the University of Miami, being heard through an amplifier in the Open Air Park
of that city. Harlan said that the debate with Florida was close, but that, in his opinion, the Miami representatives
were out-debated by the Davidson men. The debate with Emory was scheduled to be held tomorrow, March 12, but due
to an unavoidable delay, the meeting was cancelled. The question in the three debates was: “Resolved, that Congress should be
permitted to over-ride by a two-thirds majorityany five-four decision of the Supreme Court declaring a law of Congress unconstitutional.” A
slight change had been planned for the debate with Emory which would have made the last part of the question
read, “ANY DECISION of the Supreme Court...” rather than “any FIVE-FOUR decision of the Supreme Court...” The Davidson team upheld
the affirmative of the question at the University of South Carolina and the University of Florida, and the negative at
the University of Miami. They were also to take the negative at Emory.

Dramatic Club Initiates Nine
Professor E. J. Erwin Installs New Chapter of Alpha Psi Omega

Professor E. J. Erwin, representative of the Alpha Psi Omega, installed the Zeta Kappa Cast of Davidson College and initiated
its nine charter members on Monday evening at seven o'clock. These are as follows: Covington, Wadesboro, N.C.; Joe Dees, Greensboro,
N.C.; Ed Donigan, Teaneck, N.J.; Paul War- ren, Jackson, Tenn.; Dave Herring, Burgaw, N.C.; Bill Higgins, Richmond, Va.; Bill Pierce,
Jacksonville, N.C.; Treadway Purnell, Spartanburg, S.C.; Mills Taylor, Wilmington, N.C. Dave Herring was installed as director, Ed Donigan as sub-director,
and Bill Pierce as secretary and treasurer, while Professor Erwin will act as faculty adviser for the group.

Symphonic Band Is To Conduct Unusual Tour Through Three States
Trip Will Last Ten Days Including the Spring Holidays
FORTY-EIGHT WILL GO
Band to Present Concert Here Before it Leaves

“One of the most extensive tours ever attempted by a college musical organization will be taken by the Davidson College
Symphonic Band the last of this month,” said Mr. James Pfohl, director of music. The trip to which he was
referring is the one which the forty-eight members of the band will start on March twenty-third. It will cover 12,000
miles of the Southland and will last for ten days. On this tour, the band will make the following stops:
March 23, Gastonia at night; March 24, Gaffney, S.C. in the afternoon, and Greenville, S.C. at night; March 25, Demorest,
Ga. in the afternoon, and Atlanta at night; March 26, Rome, Ga. at night; March 27, Chattanooga, Tenn. at night;
March 28 and 29, Asheville and Montreat; March 30, Lenoir in the afternoon and Morganton at night; March 31, Winston-Salem
at night; April 1, Clemmons in the afternoon and Salisbury at night.

This tour was arranged by R. K. Purdy, business manager of the band, together with the other officers of the
band, J. L. Johnson, President, Harris Bradley, Vice-President, and Wiley Bradley, Secretary-Treasurer. Emmett Carmichael of the University of Alabama, national
president of Alpha Epsilon Delta, will be present at this installation. The Pi Delta Alpha was organized in 1931 and
was an outgrowth of the Aesculapian Club, which has been on the Davidson campus for a number of years. The
local fraternity has as its purpose the development and creation of interest in the medical profession, and the aiding of
medical students of Davidson by a periodical meeting. Smith said that plans were being made for meetings at which noted
men of the medical profession will lecture. These meetings will be open to all interested.

The band is receiving no money from the college, the tour being entirely self-supporting. This same program will be played
by the band at Davidson on March 20, free of charge. However, a free-will offering will be taken to help
finance this trip. A great deal of preparation has been necessary in arranging the tour, and attractive posters have been
designed and printed, together with programs for the concert. These programs carry the names of the numbers to be played,
the names of the members of the band, and an engraving of Chambers Building. Mr. Pfohl said that the program
is the most difficult ever attempted by a college organization but it promises to be done in a professional manner.

Music Lovers Hear Symphony
Little Symphony’s Five Weeks’ Tour

The Little Symphony of the University of Michigan was heard in an unusual concert held in the Chambers Auditorium last
night, March 6, by a large and enthusiastic audience. This famous orchestra is made up of students at the University
of Michigan, undergraduate and graduate, and every member of the orchestra is an accomplished artist on his or her particular
instrument. Their program embraced a wide variety of all types of symphonic music. Their first group included several numbers by
the orchestra, including Mozart's “Overture to the Marriage of Figaro,” Dohanyi's “Suite, Opus 1” transcribed for the orchestra; two selections
from “For My Little Friends,” “Vision of the Guardian Angel,” and “March of the Little Lead Soldiers.”

Their second group included the “Concerto, No. 20 in D Minor” by Mozart, a piano solo by Mr. Konrad Wolff;
“I Danced with a Mosquito,” a humorous piece by the orchestra; “Hungarian Rhapsody” by Popper, a violoncello solo by Miss
Pienert; four Russian folk songs arranged by Liadov, “Chant Religieux,” “Berceuse,” and “Rondo,” and Smetana’s “Dance of the Comedians.”

JUNIOR DANCES TO FEATURE WEEK-END WITH BIG-TIME BAND
NUMBER 19

VOGLER WILL BE CENTENNIAL CHEER LEADER
Winston-Salemite Elected As Varsity Yell-Man On Third Ballot
PETERS IS RUNNER-UP
STUDENTS OPPOSED TO COMBINES IN POLITICS

Carlton Chapman, president of the student body, asked the nine social fraternities and the non-fraternity group to vote against forming
political combines in the student elections on Wednesday morning, March 4. At the respective weekly meetings of the fraternities on
Thursday night, each agreed to refrain from forming combines with one another or with other groups. This was done in
order to elect a candidate with whom they might have some special interest or relation. The non-fraternity group agreed unanimously
to support the said project. The purpose of this agreement is to insure a wholesome and completely satisfactory series of
elections for student body officials.

New Pepster Announces Plans For Junior Assistants

Gene Vogler was chosen varsity cheerleader for the coming year in the first Student Body election of the Spring. The
election took three different ballots. On the first ballot, on Tuesday, John Allen was eliminated. Ken Knorr’s name was dropped
from the list on Wednesday. Gene Vogler won over “Bobby” Peters in the final voting on Thursday. Gene Vogler will
succeed Joe Dees, Senior cheerleader of the past year. He will take up his duties immediately and will announce the
results at track and field meets during the remainder of this spring. Later on in the spring, Vogler announces that
he will call for candidates for junior cheer-leaders. These will come from the rising junior class. For a period of
ten days, these candidates will receive rigid training in the art of cheerleading, so they will be prepared to lead
the cheering at next year’s football games.

Gene Vogler, of Winston-Salem, is a member of Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity, a member of the soccer team, and
a sergeant in the ROTC. He began his work as cheerleader last spring when Joe Dees first issued the call
for junior cheerleaders. At that time, eighteen men reported and when school re-opened this year, twelve of these were still
in the running. These twelve were used at the pep meetings and at the Elon game to give the Student
Body sufficient knowledge of their ability. On Tuesday and Wednesday, September 25 and 26, the four junior cheerleaders were selected
from this group and served under Joe Dees at all the games for the remainder of the football season.

Pre-Med Body Goes National
Pi Delta Alpha Is Accepted as Member of Alpha Epsilon Delta

The petition of Pi Delta Alpha, Davidson pre-medical fraternity, has been accepted by Alpha Epsilon Delta, national fraternity of the
same type, according to a letter from the national president, Dr. Emmett Carmichael of the University of Alabama. C. Gordon
Smith of Rocky Mount, president of the local chapter, stated that the installation of the Davidson chapter will take place
shortly before the spring holidays. Plans are being made for Dr. Carmichael to be present at this installation. The Pi
Delta Alpha was organized in 1931 and was an outgrowth of the Aesculapian Club, which has been on the Davidson
campus for a number of years. The local fraternity has as its purpose the development and creation of interest in
the medical profession, and the aiding of medical students of Davidson by a periodical meeting. Smith said that plans were
being made for meetings at which noted men of the medical profession will lecture. These meetings will be open to
all interested. The University of North Carolina has a petition before the present chapters, requesting admittance for a pre-medical group
on the Carolina campus. Members of the local chapter are: C. G. Smith, president; E. F. McConnell, vice-president; W. B.
Wartman, secretary; J. O. Johnston, H. P. Morrow, E. Donigan, J. W. Knox, W. G. Bradley, J. Y. Templeton, J.
W. M. Deyerle, R. Yarborough, W. G. White, K. M. Scout, J. E. Ross, and J. J. Stevens.

Newbold and Torrey Judge Oratory Meet
Two members of the freshman debating team were invited to judge an oratorical contest at Cornelius High School on Thursday,
March 5. Dave Newbold and Archer Torrey represented the team. The contest was one sponsored by the Home Owners’ Loan
Corporation, with a prize of five dollars offered to the boy or girl who would make the best speech or
essay on a certain number of subjects such as thrift and home owning. There were nine participants.

Professor Ellwood To Offer Lecture Series
Series Starts on Monday Night and Runs Through Tuesday Morning

Professor Ellwood has received his education at universities in the United States, in England, and in Germany. During the past
years, he has been the guest summer session professor of sociology in many of the outstanding universities of this country.
Professor Ellwood is president of the International Congress of Sociology and a member of many other social organizations. He is
also the author of many books dealing with social problems. The lecturer was highly recommended by those who have heard
him in previous talks, and it was considered a great honor to have him speak to the students of the
College, as well as to the faculty. The school will endeavor to provide many other speakers quite as able.

On Monday night at 8:00 P.M., Professor Ellwood will deliver a free formal lecture in Chambers auditorium on the subject
“Social Conditions in Western Europe.” At the chapel hour of the following Tuesday morning, he will address the student body
briefly on the topic, “The Contribution of Sociology to Religion.” On the same morning at 11:35, Professor Ellwood will deliver
a series of lectures at Davidson College. Professor Ellwood is president of the International Congress of Sociology and a member
of many other social organizations. He is also the author of many books dealing with social problems. The lecturer was
highly recommended by those who have heard him in previous talks, and it was considered a great honor to have
him speak to the students of the College, as well as to the faculty. The school will endeavor to provide
many other speakers quite as able.
