THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 8, 1936

John Lee Sets New School Pole Vault Mark of Twelve Feet, Six Inches

SPORTS AFIELD

Wildcat Athletic Teams Face A Busy Week

Yale 10-2 and 11-1, trounce res of counted on be of their match- ity of the year her meteoric hman
on sit $ ast ye 1 playir aire Le tin Bi. George Hornbeck, and Jake Other members are Harry ar]
Carlson, resent, the ager Ji about 1 iis charges. He all but four I twenty matches. Here’s luck to u,
ra queteers. It’s a big order.

A word of advice to you Red and Black Masquers: If you want a few pointers toward performing in a
villainous role, attend one of the burper’s shows in Charlotte on Monday nights. Those “grunt ’n’ groan” artists really have
this villainy down to a fine art, along with a few gestures to provide John Q. Fan with a laugh
or two.

TOUGH LUCK, ‘CATS

As stated above, the past 4 t gregation Whether the S will be a success depends on whether the ‘Cats
shake their 1 and get started, or just resign themselves to gamely take their next losses on the chin. Half
of the game is thinking you're better than your opponent; the other half is making him think so. The student
body can also help. Few bleachers are up yet, and the weather is still better suited to January, but you
can soon attend the games in “regular baseball weather.” Root for your team! A poor sign of spirit is for
one man to root and the rest of the crowd to look around to single out the crank who dares
to break the silence. Get a bag of peanuts, utilize leather lungs often heard above all else when displaying wit,
and go to the ball games!

Honors for the last series go to Bill Quick (two beautiful hits, Bill), Shorty Bankhead, and Herman Yearwood. Bankhead, transfer
from Mars Hill, is one of the flashiest performers to cavort on the local diamond in recent years. Yearwood, another
transfer, tossed nice ball against the Duke team on Friday, and deserves much credit for his performance in his first
starting assignment. Ever-dependable Bill Quick gains the honor of rapping out the first ’Cat home run of the season, garnered
off Naktenes in the fourth inning of Saturday’s game. Wood Burns startled local fans when he stole two bases on
Friday, and got two hits in three trips. That job of umpiring bases was the saddest this scribe ever witnessed.
It’s a dangerous stage when ridiculous decisions have the players of both teams rolling on the ground laughing. Maybe we
need some umps on the job.

(Continued on Page 6)

DAVIDSON WINS THREE

Netmen Down Mercer and Rollins College But Bow to Georgia Tech

RAIN HINDERS PLAY

Davidson Varsity Loses to North Carolina, 10-0

On Saturday, March 28, Mercer lost decisively to the Davidson team 9-0. The Macon players failed to win a single
set, so all nine matches were quickly run off on two courts. Rain prevented the completion of the match at
Gainesville with the University of Florida. The Davidson team was leading in the playing when stopped. Carlyle Lewis won Davidson’s
matches, and Barrett and Ison were leading in their match. Frampton was tied in his third set. The trip was
to have included more competition. However, the severe weather hindered the team, which has lost several matches.

The University of North Carolina netters won every match on Saturday, April 4. Seven singles matches were played, followed by
three doubles. The order of the Davidson singles line-up was Kenny, Lewis, Barrett, Bell, Frampton, and Morris. Although every match
was lost, several of the matches were close and exciting. Carlyle Lewis played the most interesting match but Kenny, Bell,
and Frampton also played well. The matches were won by the Carolina netters with close scores.

MACKORELL IS SEEKING POST

Former Davidson Star Wants Coaching Berth

Johnny Mackorell, captain of last year’s team and All-State quarterback, will not return when the call is issued this fall.
In recent communications to friends at the college and in Charlotte, Johnny states that his plans for the near future
call for his devoting himself to a coaching career. He would prefer to settle near Davidson, where he accomplished the
record that made him famous here and at Hickory High School. Johnny states: “I didn't get to play much football
this last fall. I played in about four league games. They (New York Giants) had back the same team with
which they won the world’s championship the previous year. They were breaking me into the ‘big league’ but, believe me,
I wasn't the only one to warm the bench. They want me to come back next year but I don’t
think I will.” Johnny said he would come to North Carolina soon, and that he would visit the campus during
May. His purpose on this trip is to see his numerous friends and to contact those officials who are interested
in securing a first-rate football coach or athletic director. During his stay on this campus, Mackorell was a member of
O.D.K., the “D” Club, and Pi Kappa Alpha social fraternity.

CHARLOTTE, N. C.

FAUL AND CRYMES, INC.

SPORTING GOODS

415 SOUTH TRYON ST.

GAMECOCKS BATTLE HARD TO WIN OVER VARSITY TRACKMEN

Wildcats Encounter First Defeat of Season

The University of South Carolina eked out a 65 1-3 to 60 2-3 victory over Davidson's Wildcat track varsity last
Saturday, April 4. Until near the end, results were uncertain, but Carolina finished with a slight margin. Cold weather hampered
activity on Richardson and the freshman fields as the fourteen events were hurriedly run off. First places were rather evenly
divided between teams, but the Gamecocks scored heavily in the dashes and some of the field events to offset Davidson's
advantage in the distance races, the pole vault, and the broad jump. Captain Billy Merchant won the mile and two-mile
runs for the Wildcats with a time of 4:54 on the first and 10:32.4 on the second. The two-mile race
was a clean sweep for Davidson as Brown and Parcell placed second and third. Shuford won the half mile in
2:09 and Gregory took the 440-yard dash in 53.3. Epps of South Carolina won both the hundred and the 220-yard
dash. The high hurdles were run in 15.9 by Taylor of South Carolina, and Pettit added five points to the
Carolina score in the low hurdles. Lee took first place in the pole vault at 11 feet, and did not
attempt to jump higher because of the bitter cold. The high jump ended in a tie between Royster of South
Carolina and Dickson. Dickson won the broad jump for Davidson with a 20 foot 7 inch jump. Speigner of South
Carolina won the javelin with a throw of 168 feet 8 3-4 inches to offset that event. Craig of South
Carolina was high scorer with fourteen points gained by winning the shot and discus, placing second in the javelin, and
third in the high jump. This meet was incomplete, as the track competes with several otherSchools' next meet will be
April 11, meeting Duke University.

Davidson 69; Furman 57

The second for Wildcats, and their first defeat, schedule is still largely and this month the varsity at Durham, Davidson
varsity cindermen won their first meet 69-57 from Furman University Wednesday, March 25. The rain and mud on the Greenville
field made fast races impossible. However, John Lee made a new Davidson track record in the pole vault when he
jumped 12 feet 5 inches after winning the event at 11 feet.

(Continued on Page 6)

Freshmen: Golf Season Is To Start On Friday

April 10, the Freshman golf team will play its first match of the season with Charlotte High School at the
Carolina Country Club golf course in Charlotte. Try-outs for the team will be held during the middle part of this
week. The eight aspirants, O. H. Bell, M. W. Cauble, S. T. Henderson, M. H. Lillard, T. W. Mullen, R.
L. Pittman, J. S. Tillotson, and J. M. Wharton, will play 18 holes on the golf course, the six shooting
the lowest scores will be chosen as the basis for the team. These six will then play over the Carolina
course to determine which four men will represent the freshmen team. The other two men not on the team will
be able to make the team later if they shoot lower scores than any of the present members. The schedule
for the golf team has not yet been finished, but it is hoped that the team will soon have some
fine matches. The tentative schedule is as follows: Charlotte High School at Charlotte, April 10; Asheville High School, there, April
16; Greensboro High School, there, April 17 or 18; Winston-Salem High School, there, April 18.

CAT BASEBALL NINE SHOWS PROMISE IN SPITE OF DEFEATS

Devils Down Cats in First Big Five Tilt

In its first four games Coach Laird’s green baseball team gave a fairly good account of itself. Although it lost
all of them, there are several promising candidates and the teamwork is improving steadily. The first game of the season
was with the Unique Furniture Company of Winston-Salem. The furniture makers bunched their hits against Jenkins, Cathey, and Yearwood to
win by a score of ten to three. The next game was played at Hickory on April first with the
Lenoir-Rhyne College nine. These hefty swingers pounded Cathey and Jenkins for eight runs while Davidson's lone marker was scored by
Jones in the third inning. Davidson and Duke opened the Big Five Conference race at Davidson, playing on the third
and fourth of April, with Duke emerging victorious in both games by scores of 8-4 and 14-2 respectively. In the
first encounter, Davidson played a good, scrappy game, but home runs by Corbitt and Huiskamp were the Blue Devils’ margin
of victory. Woodie Burns led the Wildcats at the plate with a double and a single out of three trips,
while Ace Parker proved that he is to Duke in baseball as well as football by clouting two doubles and
putting on a brilliant fielding exhibition. Yearwood pitched a good, steady game for the Wildcats, keeping the hits well scattered,
but expert fielding checked every attempt of Davidson to tie the score. The game ended with the Wildcats making a
last desperate rally that ended with two men on base.

In the second game of the series, the Wildcat nine got off to a bad start and then went completely
to pieces toward the end of the game. Bad breaks in the first inning caused the team to become nervous
and before they could get settled down, three runs had crossed the plate. Bill Quick revived Davidson’s hopes in the
fourth inning with his home run smash into left field. Duke settled down after that, however, and the ‘Cats never
threatened. Batteries for Davidson were Jenkins, Cathey, Stewart, Neal and Kellam; for Duke were Naktenis, Barley and Wagner.

WILDCAT GOLFERS GET OFF TO STRONG START

Return Victorious to Face Terrific Schedule

Despite inclement weather during the holidays, the Davidson College golf team completed a successful invasion of Virginia, bagging two wins
and suffering one defeat. Hampden-Sydney and the University of Virginia fell victims, while Richmond University emerged victorious. On Friday, March
27, the ‘Cats turned back the Hampden-Sydney shot-makers 15 1-2 to 2 1-2 over the Boonesboro links in Lynchburg. The
play was featured by Snow's eagle and Ross's birdie on the difficult number 11 hole. The points of the meet
were as follows: Snow (D) 2 1-2 over Walden 1-2, Ross (D) 3 over Dodson 0; Cowan (D) 3 over
Farrow 0; McClelland (D) 3 over Farnsworth 0; Dodson-Walden 2 over Snow-Ross 1; Cowan-McClelland 3 over Farnsworth-Farrow 0.

Saturday the team matched shots with the Richmond Spiders on the Hermitage Country Club course and suffered a loss by
a score of 14 to 4. The points were as follows: Ewell (R) 2 1-2 over Snow 1-2; Gordan (R)
3 over Ross 0; McClelland (D) 2 1-2 over Mullins 1-2; J. Botts (R) 2 over Cowan 1; Ewell-Gordan 3
over Snow-Ross 0; Botts-Mullins 3 over Cowan-McClelland 0.

The Wildcats came back strong the following Monday to overthrow the University of Virginia by a score of 14 to
4.

(Continued on Page 6)

JOHNSON’S BARBER SHOP
for...
THE MAN WHO CARES

EASTER GIFTS
Sun Glasses
Liquid Polish For All White Shoes
SOUTHERN 5 & 10c STORE

WILDCATS WILL PLAY HARVARD UNIVERSITY ON GRIDIRON IN 1937

State, Duke, V. M. I., Centre, Furman, U. N. C., Wake Forest to Be Met

NAVY LEADS '36 CARD

Five Home Games Are Planned for this Fall

Davidson will play Harvard in football in 1937, announces Prof. Fred L. Blythe, chairman of the faculty and acting athletic
director. The game, the most important carded so far for the Wildcats in '37, will be played at Cambridge, Mass.,
home of the Crimson, on November 13. In discussing the arrangement of the contest, Prof. Blythe states: “It is indeed
an honor for a small southern college like Davidson to be invited to meet on the gridiron such a distinguished
university as Harvard. We appreciate this opportunity, and we gladly intrust Davidson's honor and renowned fighting spirit to the Red
and Black Wildcats of 1937. May these 'Cats grow bigger, stronger, and speedier.”

Although Davidson has met both Army and Navy in intersectional football, the Wildcats have never met the Crimson before. Games
already scheduled for 1937, although vacancies may be filled later, are as follows: Sept. 25—N. C. State at Davidson; Oct.
2—Duke (pending); Oct. 9—V. M. I. at Davidson; Oct. 16—open (not to be filled); Oct. 23—Centre at Danville; Oct. 30—Furman
at Davidson; Nov. 6—U. N. C. (place undecided); Nov. 13—Harvard at Cambridge; Nov. 20—open (not to be filled); Nov. 25—Wake
Forest at Wake Forest.

Navy leads the 1936 schedule, which follows: Sept. 19—Duke at Davidson; Sept. 26—N. C. State at Raleigh; Oct. 3—Navy at
Annapolis; Oct. 10—V. M. I. at Davidson; Oct. 17—open (not to be filled); Oct. 24—Citadel at Davidson; Oct. 31—Furman at
Greenville; Nov. 7—U. N. C. at Davidson; Nov. 14—open (not to be filled); Nov. 21—Wake Forest at Davidson.

The two big games for the next two seasons, Navy and Harvard, should furnish, in the opinion of the Athletic
Council, a strong incentive for men to make the team and to go on those trips.

In an effort to restore the honor system, jeopardized by the recent discovery of wholesale cheating, University of South Carolina
students have signed an honor pledge.

UNDER-GRAD CLOTHES

You can’t get too much of a good thing, if the good thing is good fashion. And now, after seeing
the new spring Under-Grad Clothes, we're wondering whether we'll really have enough to go around. What a style thrill you're
going to get from these model and fabric “firsts” by Under-Grad... the smartest yet!

$27.50 — $39.50
Two Trousers

TATE-BROWN CO.
College Shop
Third Floor
