N The Davidsonian Founded By the Class of 1915 1935 Member 1936 Associated Collegiate Press Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Published
Weekly “Vox Clamantis in Deserto” Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY Charlotte, North Carolina SUBSCRIPTION RATES Ten cents per copy;
$2.00 the Collegiate year. Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, N.C., under the act of
March 3, 1879. ARTICLES FOR PUBLICATION must be on the hands of Managing Editors by 4:00 o’clock p.m. Monday. Letters
to the Editor are welcome, but all communications intended for publication must be signed. LAMONT BROWN ........ Editor R. P.
MORROW, Jr. Business Manager EDITORIAL STAFF Jim Morton Managing Editor Howell Overton Managing Editor Harold Stace Managing Editor Dayaron Turner
Managing Editor John Winn Managing Editor Harry Kuykendall Sports Editor Martin Barner Associate Editor Harvey Glass Associate Editor Paul Harlan
Associate Editor Tom Marchant Associate Editor John Walker Associate Editor BUSINESS STAFF Charles Alauze Circulation Manager Bill Stone Circulation Manager
Vancr Circulation Manager Helen Robinson Advertising Manager Sunny Hip Collection Manager Bill Dyprurlo Assistant Business Manager WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 29, 1936
Study to show thyself approved unto God, a workman that needeth not to be ashamed, rightly dividing the word of
truth. II Timothy 2:15. Paragraphics.... Alumni Secretary Grier Martin should be congratulated for obtaining a fifteen-minute radio program to be
broadcast from the Davidson campus over the southern network of the Columbia Broadcasting System. This gives each week to the
college a very intimate contact with the entire Southland. The Davidson Pan Hellenic Council should be commended for its untiring
efforts and final success in securing the music of such an unusually good orchestra as Freddy Martin for the Mid-Winter
dances. Undoubtedly they know a good deal more about contracts, weather insurance, and most of all how much people enjoy
dancing since beginning their plans for these dances. Freshmen Franchise.... Several years ago a conscientious but misinformed student body took
a step toward election reform by giving Davidson democracy a death blow. This step involved depriving the Freshman Class of
the franchise in all student body elections until the selection of their class president had been completed. As this election
is always the last of the season it merely means removing from the Freshmen all use of the ballot. It
seems now that this step was taken without due consideration by the legislative body. The originator of the proposal believed
that removing freshmen votes would act to two advantages: (1) It would eliminate votes by men who have not been
in Davidson long enough to know the candidates or their qualifications for office. (2) It would eliminate the possibility of
undue pressure upon individuals in their voting by their fraternities or other groups. We will not refute the first reason
or expatiate on upperclassmen who vote for men they do not know or transfer students who are usually not afforded
the opportunities that Orientation and rushing season afford for freshmen to meet upperclassmen. In regard to the second suggestion, it
may be said that unscrupulous voters may be found in any class, and that freshmen will not be more inclined
to vote under pressure than upperclassmen of the true Davidson calibre. To remedy this situation it has been suggested that
the vote be given the freshmen in limited degree, namely, each freshman vote would count one half value of an
upperclassman ballot. This would meet the objections offered by the proponents of the disfranchising movement, and at the same time
would answer the advantages listed below: (1) Restoration of the freshman vote would build student body unity. (2) Freshmen in
some cases know more of the qualifications of some candidates than any other men in the student body. Cheerleader is
an example of this. (3) In the name of democracy such segregation is unfair. Evolution is natural, and is necessary
for improvement. We believe that the college student of this generation is in many respects more broadminded and democratic than
his predecessors. Such practices as hazing and “ratting” are going into rapid disuse in contemporary collegiate circles. Reforms have been
made, and are being made in this phase of freshman life at Davidson. Several groups of Davidson men now have
as an objective broadening the scope of freshman life. By careful consideration and sincere support the student body can build
greater unity of campus thought and expression through this and other forthcoming proposals. “Doc” Unger.... It isn’t the purpose here
to go into the whys and wherefores of Coach “Doc” Unger’s resignation from his Davidson post. As a matter of
fact that seems to be a secret between the Athletic Council and Unger; but this editorial is intended to show
some of the things Coach Unger has done in his five years as a Wildcat mentor, and also to pay
due respect to this popular instructor. Outstanding among his accomplishments are the two state championship titles that his wrestling teams
have won since he first came to the Presbyterian institution. In 1934 the first coronation came, and then in 1935
the crown was retained by a group of grapplers, of whom only two had wrestled competitively before coming to Davidson.
As custodian of the athletic equipment he has been very conservative and accurate in taking care of all property in
the supply rooms. He has systematically shelved all uniforms and accessories, he keeps them all well laundered and repaired, and
on the whole rendered an exceedingly economical service to the athletic department in this capacity. During the five years he
coached the B football squad, many valuable men were developed by him for varsity competition, and he always arranged an
interesting schedule for his men to play, giving them experience and keeping their spirits aroused. He served very capably as
scout for the varsity football team, and was freshman baseball coach for three years. Aside from these several tangible accomplishments,
Coach Unger won the friendship and respect of all the men with whom he worked. As a coach he has
proved his mettle, and as a sportsman and gentleman he merits unstinted admiration. Therefore, despite the cause of his resignation,
the Davidson student body is regretful of it, but confident of his continued success. The Small College.... When individuals appeal
to the nation for increased support of the 600 odd small liberal colleges in the country, characterizing them as the
seed beds of leadership and “among the principal sources of high character and noble ideals without which any purely economic
system would collapse,” they voice opinion in which leading impartial educators strongly concur. The small liberal arts colleges have usually
had to travel a road of thorns and obstacles. Their endowments at best have been meager. They possess only one
fourth of the capital funds behind all higher educational institutions, large and small in the United States, and they include
in their cloisters one half of the students. While large universities have been spending huge sums in extravagantly beautifying and
enlarging their physical aspects, the small colleges have carried on with scant funds that do not even suffice to pay
their faculties fair salaries. The present period of economic depression has further multiplied the difficulties which in general beset these
smaller institutions. Distinctly American in nature, the small liberal arts college truly plays a most important role in the American
educational system. Amid the growth of state-supported institutions and highly-endowed universities, the smaller college has held on as one of
the strongholds of a truly cultural education. The broad opportunities which it offers for intimacy and for increased student-faculty fellowship
have demonstrated the value of The recent seclusion within several large institutions of a number of smaller divisions, such as
the colleges in the Yale plan, is a recognition of the advantages of the small college over the large educational
plants. Yet the great bulk of these smaller institutions, along with the equally neglected women’s colleges, are forced to struggle
along, leading a hand-to-mouth existence, while a few major institutions grow relatively opulent. Regret is naturally occasioned by the fact
that America’s larger institutions cannot secure all the financial backing they could use to increase the salaries of faculty members
or to erect luxurious Gothic and Gregorian buildings. But the plight of America’s scores of worthy but financially starving colleges,
particularly prevalent in the South and in certain portions of the West, brings to the surface one of the most
pressing needs of modern American higher education.—The Daily Princetonian. ALL'S DEAD ON THE WESTERN FRONT Crowding into all the Southern
machines and colleges of learning is that rather odd specimen known as the Yankee. Before the Yankee, the Southerner gapes
in awe. Most peculiar about the Yankee is his voice, which sounds something like the concise clicking of a pair
of sharpened scissors. To hear a group of Yankees hold forth is something phenomenal: the impression is somewhat that of
several well-lightened lawnmowers passing each other. The slow-talking and therefore dumb Southerner falls under the spell of the assuming meat-slicing
Yankee lingo; he hands over his vote, money, pants, wife and lot. That is why the Southerner afterwards hates the
Yankee. Among the peculiarities of mankind’s writhings is that form known as "Yankee Dancing.” It seems to be the origin
of the song about personal indisposition to terpsichore due to pantaloon proximity to certain hymenopterous insects. There are three grades
of Yankee: (1) Yank, (2) blank Yank, and (3) blank blank Yank. On the whole, however, Davidson has been fortunate
in both the number and selection of our northern contemporaries. They are pretty good boys. WISE POLICY? Davidson is cutting
its own throat as regards athletics. It seems certain (we hope so) that we will resist the onslaught of the
great tendency toward mass production in education: one of the features of which is commercialization of athletics. Some schools should
be called “Associated Gymnasia” rather than college or university. But to resist this tendency and retain its individuality, Davidson is
bound to be outclassed completely in football and partly in basketball and baseball. It should, then, develop completely the minor
non-commercialized sports: track, boxing, wrestling, golf, tennis, etc. Emory University — a notable combination of fine student personnel and academic
excellence — has realized this. Yet last year we lost Captain Norton G. Pritchett, a strong backer of intramural and
minor sports. And now we note the departure of “Doc” Unger, who put wrestling on the map at Davidson and
Davidson wrestling on the map in the State. Regardless of his functions in other branches of athletics, his necessity here
warrants his retention, and the Student Body acutely feels his departure. Why neglect—or make shift, which is detestably worse —
the field in which our possibilities are greatest? HENCE LOATHED MELANCHOLY! For years has been the wait of the Student
Body for a first-class band for Mid-Winters. Hopes have risen to fall and Pan-Hellenic presidents have toppled from heroes to
hounds. But, said, all things come to him who waits. And ye columnist hopes to see ye at the ball.
Almost as much as the Pan Hellenic Council. So, Hence Loathed Examinations, “of Cerberus and blackest Midnight born!” At least
it would seem so to one who proceeded on the assumption that professors didn't grade exam papers anyway. BALDERDASH Columnist
is weary and wan, for “The Davidsonian” isdisgraced. Yea, within its ranks is one no other than Harry Kuykendall who
still relies on the “out of gas” trick, a somewhat atavistic reversion to youth. And we weep again for one
Bobby, “Golden Gloves” Peters who is on charge of Assault and Battery of the Court of Control and his laughing
friend, who, like the nutty fishermen, after catching their fish, threw them back into the water. And we weep for
such circumstances as necessitate Hoax Robinson running from the freshman field and back. And we weep a tear for Monroe
Wicker who has requested Coach Whittle to place hurdles on the Charlotte Highway so as to practice en route. Economical,
that Wicker! This thing is getting terrible. We (Continued on Page 6)

house, Yankee, known ol ‘tis But ence

And we weep for one Judge

THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 23, 1936

‘It Can’t Happen Here’—

The Emory Wheel, our militant contemporary, recently featured a front page “blacklist” enumerating in mild reproof those professors who keep
their classes over-time.

Sign Language—

Perhaps picture writing is coming back. Anyway, our heart goes out in sympathy to the student at a Northern university
whose instructor handed back a rather lengthy examination paper. On the document were no marks, no corrections, on the outside,
just one symbol—a carefully drawn shovel!

Pan-Hellenica—

“Dear sir, I am convinced that your son is a moron...” wrote the professor. “Come home at once. Didn't I
tell you not to join a fraternity without consulting me?” wired the irate parent. Then there was the Colorado parent
who ordered his first-born home because he heard that forty percent of the university students were Greeks.

‘Out in the Wash’—

College is just like a washing machine. You get out exactly what you put in, but you'd never recognize it...
An alumnus is a graduate ball team should be ran.

‘Next to Godliness’—

Four hundred students and four zinc bathtubs bathed the year ‘round in cold water. That was Mississippi State fifty years
ago. There were no water or heating facilities in the dormitories. If you wanted a warm bath, you heated the
water in a container that held scarcely a gallon over a grate fire in your room.—Reflector.

An Iron Clad Wit—

Optimistic Clerk: These are especially strong shirts, sir. They simply laugh at the laundry.

By ARNOLD SERWER (Associated Collegiate Press Correspondent)

Washington, D. C.—The FERA-WPA Lodge of the American Federation of Government Employees, after a brief fight lasting only one week,
succeeded in having their president, released from the WPA two weeks ago, reinstated in her old job. The union's success
surprised even its executive officers. They expected opposition from everybody from Mr. Hopkins down against reinstatement of Miss Richter, allegedly
discharged for inefficiency. They had ammunition for a long fight ready, ammunition calculated to prove that their president’s discharge had
been prompted by her union activities, not by the quality of her work, which quality they believed they could prove
was excellent.

John Donovan, once the central figure in a battle between Gen. Hugh Johnson and the NRA employees union, spoke at
the rally held by FERA employees launching the effort to reinstate Miss Richter. Donovan, during a term as president for
the NRA lodge, was similarly discharged, and not reinstated until the case, brought before the National Labor Board, was decided
in his favor.

All this serves to illustrate the point that since the New Deal first brought youngsters into the service there has
been a growing militancy in the government employees unions. The NRA lodge and the FERA-WPA lodge have been outstandingly pugnacious
and outstandingly successful in their battles. The militancy is directly attributable to a number of young men and women, recent
college and university graduates, who organized and now run both these unions. Many of them happened to major in labor
economics in their undergraduate days and now they're not just theoreticians but also able union strategists. The charge among the
old timers is that they're just a bunch of young college kids, “playing union,” the way children play at soldiers.
That charge is partially true. There are a couple of “over the ramparts, boys!” people among the young folks in
the new unions of the New Deal agencies, but most of them are as hard-headed as the AFGE president, Clyde
Babcock. In addition, they bring to the fight of the government employees what the old leaders seem to lack, ingenuity,
persistence, and idealistic courage.

With the example of the unions of these capable young amateurs before them, many old line lodges have begun to
show signs of increasing vigor. Clyde Babcock, who stood godfather to the NRA lodge when it was first formed, never
realizing what a rambunctious youngster the baby was slated to become, is beginning to find his job much harder, and
somewhat secure with all the young people so active. At the recent AFGE national convention, the FERA and NRA lodge
delegates provided a great deal of fireworks for Babcock and the other conservative leaders by threatening to run candidates for
AFGE national offices unless the old leadership got over its hardening of the arteries.

Of course, although the employees unions can fight single cases of discriminatory discharges or wage cuts, they're up against it
when hundreds are dropped from the payrolls of the new bureaus, which is being done right now, as the recently
begun economy wave gathers momentum. With the NRA numbering 1,200 employees as against 5,000 or more a year ago, the
end of that lodge is in sight. Some of the other lodges will be hit almost as badly as the
NRA lodge when the economy wave rolls over their respective bureaus. However, the example of the success of these lodges,
even if temporary, will have the effect, as it is having the effect now, of showing the local lodges that
remain and the new ones that may come just how trade union tactics, if applied vigorously, can be translated into
victories for the employees.

More significant than the effect these locals had on all government unions is the effect they may have on organized
labor outside of Washington. One thing the activities of these Washington groups did was to impress labor elsewhere with the
fact that young college people did have the ability to lead labor, to plan campaigns, and to stay with (Continued
on Page 5)

Most people are beginning to think that organized labor could readily do with the leaven of young leadership of that
type.

STOLEN THUNDER

Around Washington

Student Cynical

I know that kind. I've had some come back with their sides split.—Sun Dial.

Lost & Found—

The Ohio State Lantern reports the following ad which appeared in a Paso Robles paper: “Lost—A lead pencil, by Marjorie
Weats, blonde, five feet five, 120 pounds, blue eyes, good dancer. Call...”

Hand-Press—

“May I print a kiss on your lips?” He asked. She nodded her sweet permission. We went to press And
I rather guess We printed a large edition.—HLALC

Ad Similes—

To continue, love has been compared to poker. It takes a pair to open; she gets a flush; he shows
a diamond, and it ends in a full house.—The Tiger.

Tempora Mutantur—

“Now that we have the new bell system installed, shouldn't we get some kind of gadget to close the professor's
notebook, open the door, and wake up the class when the bell rings?”—Mercer Cluster.

Freedom of the Press—

We know a secret about a certain faculty member and a certain student, but we can't tell it. We're afraid
of assassination.—Carolinian.

Aftermath—

A survey of exam papers during the recent tabulations produced the following information: Martin Luther was gored to death by
a papal bull. Edgar Allen Poe wrote “Anthony Adverse.” Four men wrote Benjamin Franklin’s autobiography. Phi Beta Kappa is a
sorority.—Florida Flambeau.

PRINTING FOR EVERY PURPOSE BUSINESS. SOCIAL RULING BINDING ENGRAVING STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY 617 Garland Court Phone 3-5727 Representatives Lamont Brown
- R. P. Morrow

FIVE YEARS AGO

Davidson will meet Duke in a crucial basketball game at Durham. These two teams are leading the Big Five. Dr.
Oren Moore delivers an inspiring address at vespers Sunday. He took for his subject “Choosing One’s Life’s Work.” Wrestling team
to meet State Saturday night. Sigma Pi Sigma publishes the first copy of its magazine, “The Radiations of Sigma Pi
Sigma.” Seabbard and Blade will organize a rifle team. Dr. C. W. Brown has a book entitled “The State Highway
System of North Carolina” published. Wildcats defeat V. P. I. 21-20. Hengeveld reports that second semester enrollment is 628.

TEN YEARS AGO

Glee Club plans extended tour of the southeast in February. They will present seven concerts, two of which will be
in Atlanta. Davidson beats Hampden-Sidney 38-31, after the visitors stage a comeback and almost overtake the ‘Cats. Bob Covington is
elected Freshman Class president. Students vote to discontinue publication of Magazine. Junior Speaking weekend plans are going forward. Pat Crawford
talks at vespers Sunday night. R. O. T. C unit is praised after inspection by Col. Frank Rowell. H. L.
Shaw, Jr. chosen chief marshal for commencement. Spring football will start soon.

FIFTEEN YEARS AGO

Fifteen men placed on the Honor Roll. Davidson loses to Durham Y. M. C. A. in first basketball game. Debaters
will meet Wake Forest and Mercer this spring. Additional seats are added to Gym. Success attends first Life Work Conference,
conducted by Dr. W. T. Thompson. Junior speaking dates set for March 23-24. “Bob” Mills, secretary of the “Y” last
year will speak at Vespers this Sunday.

TWENTY YEARS AGO

Basketball team defeats Guilford and Elon, but loses to Winston Y. M. C. A. on trip through the state. Baseball
schedule announced. Dr. W. J. Martin returns from meeting in Chicago after securing an orator for commencement, which will be
held on May 28 this year.
