THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 19, 1936

Two Davidson Boys Arrest Themselves
Handcuffs, Accidentally Locked, Must Be Taken to Court To Be Unloosed.

NEGRO’S TRIAL HALTED
Drunken Witness Testifies, But Accused Is Absent

On last Monday night, the local court, just ready to begin the hearing of a trespassing case, was rudely interrupted
by the entrance of two Davidson College students handcuffed together. These students (whom we shall call Jim White and Richard
Jones) had been playing with a pair of handcuffs in the American Cafe. White had slipped one cuff on his
wrist and had slipped the other through one of Jones’ overcoat belt loops and had accidentally locked the handcuffs. The
boys looked around for a key, but not being able to find one, decided to go to the court and
get a policeman to free them. Arriving at the court just as it was ready to open, they pushed up
to the front through a crowd of negroes and got to the policeman to free them.

After these boys had left, the trial of a negro (we shall call him Amos Lowe for convenience), who was
charged with trespassing on the property of Mary Aiken (to use a fictitious name) was begun. But since Lowe, the
accused, did not feel in the mood to attend court and hence did not appear, the trial was not very
successful. The judge found that Lowe had, without permission, entered Mary’s house in order to escape some local “Dillingers” who
were planning to mob and possibly kidnap him. After asking many questions which received only insensible answers, the judge told
one of the witnesses to retake the stand.

“Is you going to swear me in again, suh?” asked the witness.
“What, swear you in again?” said the judge. “I have sworn you in twice already! All right, put your hand
on the Bible. Do you hope to tell the truth, the whole truth and nothing but the truth?”
“Yas, suh,” replied the witness.
“Why were you going to this girl's house?” the judge asked.
“Suh, why was I going? I don’t know, suh, I was just going to be coming,” replied the frightened negro.
“Was Amos drunk when you went to the house?”
“Yas, suh,” was the answer; “he was sorta sailing kinda high. I was helping him along on my arm.”
“Were you drunk?”
“Who, me? Nor, suh, I wasn't drunk,” replied the negro.
“What! Do you mean to say that you can stand up here in the court of the law and say
you weren't drunk on a Sunday night?” demanded the judge.
“Yas, suh. I sho wasn't,” was the meek reply.
“All right, get down,” ordered the justice. “Court is dismissed until tomorrow night at 7 o'clock. (addressing Cop Johnson) Johnson,
catch Amos Lowe and put him in jail and keep him there until tomorrow night for the trial, even if
you have to take a chain and chain his hands to the wall. Court is dismissed.”

HARVEY GLASS LEADS SERVICE
Harvey Glass, assisted by the quartet, conducted the services at the First Presbyterian Church of Mooresville last Sunday night. The
sermon, directed especially to the young people of the congregation, had as its topic, “Making My Life Count For Him.”
The scripture was taken from Mark 8:34-37. Glass discussed two religions: a passive, or non-working religion, and an active religion
which may really be put into practice. The relative cost of living a Christian life as compared to the rewards
which it will bring were emphasized. The quartet, composed of Paul Hudson, J. D. Allen, C. M. Ramseur, and Donald
Pfohl, with Mr. Pfohl playing the organ, sang four numbers: “Softly Now the Light of Day,” by Weber, “Thanks Be
to God,” by Dixon, “Steal Away,” a Negro spiritual, and “Now the Day Is Over,” by Barnby.

ACADEMY GETS DAVIDSON MEN
Covington Graduates in June; Eaton Is Sophomore; Thompson Appointed

During the last five years, two Davidson students, William I. Covington, Jr., and Sam K. Eaton, have left this institution
and gone to West Point; and it is likely that another, either John H. Thompson or Jack S. Tillotson, will
go there next year. The first of these, William I. Covington, Jr., attended this college in '31 and '32, and
will graduate from West Point in June. While at Davidson, Covington was a member of Sigma Delta Psi, honorary athletic
fraternity, was on the Court of Control, belonged to the Phi Delta Theta social fraternity, and was on the track
squad his sophomore year. At West Point, Covington made the varsity track squad, ranked in the upper half of his
class scholastically, and was one of the three men chosen from the graduating class to go on a trip around
the world with the midshipmen of the Naval Academy. He is the son of Mr. and Mrs. W. E. Covington
of Rockingham.

Sam K. Eaton of New Bern attended Davidson College in the years '32, '33, and '34. While here he was
a sergeant in the R.O.T.C. unit, was a member of the Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity, and was active in
public work. He was elected business manager of the Annual at the close of his junior year but did not
return to fill this position. Eaton is now at West Point; it has been learned, he is doing good work
at that institution.

On February 10th, John H. Thompson received an appointment to West Point by the Hon. Frank Hancock of the Fifth
District of North Carolina. Thompson is a resident of Winston-Salem. He entered Davidson in the fall session of 1935. Thompson
will undergo a physical and mental examination at Fort McPherson, Georgia, on March 3. If he passes these he will
report to West Point for entrance on July 1. Jack S. Tillotson, also of Winston-Salem, has been appointed first alternate
in the event that Thompson should not pass the examinations. Tillotson is also a member of the freshman class.

GWYNN SPEAKS AT CHARLOTTE
Davidson Professor Discusses Social Security Act

The benefits of the Social Security Act and the weaknesses of the Townsend Plan were discussed before the Council of
Social Agencies of Charlotte on February 18, by Dr. D. B. Gwynn, Jr. of the Davidson Department of Education. The
Social Security Act, Dr. Gwynn explained, provides for all workers to retire at 65, on a regular monthly pension, the
amount of the pension to depend on the original earnings. This system of industrial taxation provides the funds for these
pensions and insurance in such a manner that the worker actually is paying for his own pension or unemployment insurance.

Dr. Gwynn preached at the Associate Reformed Presbyterian Church of Charlotte, Sunday morning, Feb. 16. He also was present at
a social gathering of the congregation of the Second Presbyterian Church of Charlotte, Monday evening, February 10, where he discussed
some phases of the third chapter of Dr. Fosdick’s book, “Faith of Our Fathers.”

Science Department To Present Pictures
A group of moving pictures will be presented under the auspices of the Chemistry and Physics departments Friday evening, February
21. All students who plan to attend the show are requested to come promptly at 7 o'clock as it is
not intended to run two complete shows. The pictures to be shown are as follows: Jewels of Industry—two reel—silent; Nature’s
Frozen Credits—three reel—silent; Brighter Times Ahead—one reel—sound.

LIBRARY ADDS RECENT BOOKS
Seven Books of Biography, History, Religion, and Fiction Included

ALL NEWLY PUBLISHED
Addition Includes Last Work Of John Galsworthy

Seven new books, all having been published in 1935, have recently been added to the library. The Jewish Caravan, edited
by Leo W. Schwarz, and published by Farrar and Rinehart, New York, is a collection of stories and tales translated
from many languages which portrays for the first time the social development of the Jewish people overa period of nearly
three thousand years. Forsyte’s, Pend Scribner Others, is probably the last book ever to be written by John Galsworthy. This
book is a collection of fictional material which has never before been published, except for the sea story “The Doldrums.”
There are also four dramatic pieces, two of them having been left unfinished by the author. The book, written by
the D. Appleton-Century Company of New York and London, is an exciting adventure story of the empire of Minos, in
Crete three thousand five hundred years ago, and of a girl who helped her father conduct gliding flights and who
is involved in a great many experiences.

Thomas Moore, published by Harcourt, Brace and Company of New York, and written by R. W. Chambers, is a biography
written in vindication of this man, showing to the world the greatness and consistency of this statesman. The Golden Bough,
written by Sir J. G. Frazer, and published by The Macmillan Company of New York, is a twelve-volume study of
magic and religion. The Origin of Religion, published by the Cokesbury Press of Nashville, Tenn., is written by Samuel M.
Zwemer, and is a fascinating study of the finality of Christianity contrasted with the beliefs of the great religions of
the present and the past.

History of The Anglo-Saxons, written by R. H. Hodgkin, and published by the Oxford Press, is a two-volume study of
the earliest records of this race, down to the time of Alfred the Great.

ORC HEAR REP. McSWAIN TALK
The National Guard Gives Banquet For the O.R.C. in Charlotte Armory

The supper given by the Officers Reserve Corps was hosted by the National Guard and spoken to by Congressman McSwain
of South Carolina at the Charlotte Armory last night. This meeting came as an end to the National Defense Week
Movement. The food, which was donated, was cooked by the National Guards.

Congressman McSwain, the Chairman of the House of Representatives Military Committee and an advocate of national defense, was the speaker
of the evening. He is especially interested in the work of the Officer Reserve Corps. A bill passed last year
authorizing a thousand reserve officers to be added to the regular army was introduced by Congressman McSwain. This bill provided
that fifty of these officers be commissioned as second lieutenants at the end of a year.

Wed. Thu. Fri. Sat.
Kathleen Norris’ “NAVY WIFE”
Claire Trevor, Ralph Bellamy

“CALLING OF DAN MATTHEWS”
Monday Thru Wednesday
Harold Bell Wright's

A man vice squad cuts a city of graft and corruption! With Richard Arlen, Charlotte Winters

Thursday Thru Saturday
The greatest roundup of all westerns
“POWDERSMOKE RANGE”
With Harry Carey, Tom Mix, Wally Wales, and Buddy Roosevelt.

STATE CHARLOTTE SCHOOLS AIDED BY NYA FUNDS FOR STUDENTS
Government Funds Enable Hundreds of Thousands To Get Educations

MEN GIVEN JOBS TO DO
Heads of Schools Enthusiastic Over Results

The National Youth Administration, commonly known as the NYA, is enabling a total of 290,017 high school and college students
to continue their education, Aubrey W. Williams, Executive Director, recently announced. Of this total, there are 118 undergraduate and 4,781
graduate students in the United States receiving aid. In North Carolina, 5,579 students are being helped, including the one hundred
and nineteen students at Davidson College who are able to remain in this school because of the NYA.

The NYA funds are allotted to the colleges and universities on the basis of $15 per month for an undergraduate
student, and between an average of $25 and $30 a month for the graduate student. Determining the needs of the
individual student is entirely up to the institution’s discretion. Typical of the attitude of college heads concerning the NYA work
is that expressed in a letter from Dean Herman Schneider of the University of Cincinnati College of Engineering and Commerce.
He writes in part:

“We have a number of young men of demonstrated mental capacity for college work who would have been denied seeing
the inside of a university had it not been for the federal grant... It is the best life and hope
insurance that I know. One of the most menacing things in this depression is the large number of youngsters who
have been unable to get positions, who have become utterly discouraged, and who are developing an unfortunate ‘what is the
use’ philosophy.”

Among the jobs being done by college and graduate students are working on the golf course, assisting in the laboratories,
working with the professors on campus grounds, assisting in correcting papers, and working on research work or in welfare and
municipal offices.

Famous Singers Will Appear In Charlotte
The Westminster Choir will give a concert in the Charlotte Armory Auditorium, February 20, at 8:30 P.M. This world-famous choir
consists of forty men and women. It is considered the finest a cappella choir in America. Of interest to North
Carolinians will be the fact that the conductor, Dr. Williamson, conducted a summer choir school for three summers in Winston-Salem.
The choir is on its annual American tour. They have also made a number of European tours in past years.

Business And Industry Face Great Shortage
(ACP)—American industry faces “a great shortage of technically trained men,” according to Dr. Harvey N. Davis, president of Stevens Institute
of Technology. Among general non-technical industries in particular, the demand for engineering graduates far exceeds the supply.

“Ninety per cent of the graduates of the six depression classes from 1930 to 1935 are employed, close to what
one would expect in normal times. For last June’s seniors, the figures are 91 per cent employed and more jobs
have been turned down than there are men left.”

“Generally, business and industry face an indefinite shortage of technically trained men. For the last few years, the supply has
been broken early. I don’t know what we’ll do when utilities come back.”

Each puff has less acid—Luckies are a light smoke.

For twenty-five years the research staff of The American Tobacco Company has worked steadily to produce a measurably finer cigarette—namely,
a cigarette having a minimum of volatile components, with an improved richness of taste.

A LIGHT SMOKE OF RICH, RIPE-BODIED TOBACCO
We believe that Lucky Strike Cigarettes embody a number of genuinely basic improvements, and that all these improvements combine to
produce a superior cigarette—a modern cigarette, a cigarette made of rich, ripe-bodied tobaccos—A Light Smoke.

Luckies are less acid
Recent chemical tests show that other popular brands have an excess of acidity over Lucky Strike of from 53% to
100%.

Excess of Acidity of Other Popular Brands Over Lucky Strike Cigarettes
*RESULTS VERIFIED BY INDEPENDENT CHEMICAL LABORATORIES AND RESEARCH GROUPS

A Light Smoke of Rich, Ripe-Bodied Tobacco—“IT’S TOASTED”
