THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 18, 1936

HONOR ROLL
Frank Owen Selects Kemp and Spencer as Wrestling Meet Stars

SPORTS AFIELD
HONOR ROLL
Henry Cathey Picks Williams and Lafferty as Spring Football Stars

By HARRY KUYKENDALL

Scattering the cinders right and left in what promises to be a blaze of glory, more than four score meteorites of potential track fame will converge upon Richardson field Wednesday and take part in the first Inter-fraternity track meet ever scheduled here. Even local place among the totals for, after running high, scheduled for preliminaries later between the hill. Under Pete Whit the meet is expected some real artists never knew before. In a canvas made Monday night, the Phi Gams seemed to be the only ones who had a complete list of applicants. Through a list released by Bob Gregory, Manager of the Phi Gams athletic program, the following men have entered: 100-yard dash, Buddy Branton and “Goose” Goslin. 220-yard dash, Gene Vogler and Buddy Branton. 440-yard dash, Fred Stair and Henry Baker. 660-yard run, Bill Kiesewetter and George Jones. Three-quarter mile run, Tyler Port and Jack Tillotson. 120-yard low hurdles, Buddy Branton and Fred Stair. Broad Jump, Bill Kiesewetter and Gene Vogler. High Jump, Bill Kiesewetter and Lawrence Reid. Shot, Rut Miller and Joe McNabb. Discus, Reid and Rut Miller. Javelin, Elmore Holt and Bill Tabor. Half-mile relay, Buddy Branton, Ed Wooten, Gene Vogler and Nesbet Elmore. Lawrence in the jump, Mose and Carl high. Johnny and Hipp the javelin, Carlson and the broad Treadway Purnell in jump. (Incomplete).

The SAE’s are depending on the following men to “walk off with the meet” as Manager Yates Faison says. They are Bruce Egerton, Bailey Williams, George Mathis, Bill Nicholson, Ed Armfield, Max Brittain, Bob Florence, Hoke Robinson, and Neil Whitlock. However, their list was also incomplete.

According to Manager J. D. Johnston, the Kappa Alpha’s will rely upon the services of Yarborough, Cumbie, Kenny, Cowan, Oakey, Jim Johnston, J. D. Johnston, Hutaff, Lutz, and Hines.

The Beta’s will Steere, Abbott, ley. Steere for the Johnson Bulwinkle Mot applicant Ed High have Ransom. and is the hurdles. Broad jump: and Bob jump: Bulwinkle. Distances: Hobbs, Malone, and Abbott. Shot: Charlie Edwards and Bill Benfield. Discus: Edwards. Javelin: and Steere. The relay team be composed of Steere, Hobbs, winkle and Abbott.

The Phi Delt’s manager could not be found in time to publish their list, while the Pi Kappa Phi's had not completed arrangements.

Loose Ends... Final tryouts to select the men to represent Davidson against Furman March 25th (Continued on Page 6) only Johnson. Edwards will Bul Lack of Experience in Squad Balanced By its Enthusiasm

JENKINS LEADS PITCHERS
Practice Still Light; Batteries Not Yet Tested

On Monday March 8 a large number of baseball hopefuls reported to Coach Laird. A list of three catchers, Nea, Rella, and St. Clair; three pitchers, Cate, Neal, and Morrill; infielders, Lafferty, Bankhead, McLarty, Gainer, Patton, shortstop Moye, Quick, Lindsay, Gainer; outfielders—Holt, Dick, Parrish, Richard. Indications point to a fast infield with Bankhead, a promising player. Also, a team that is important. Its fielding is merely to see the players have not yet cut. Coach Laird still next week. Newton, Lee, Golfers Open 1936 Schedule Snow, Rea: McClelland, Maples Meet Catawba Team

Davidson golf team starts the spring against Catawba. Although the tournament has not been completed, four players have been selected to meet the Catawba Varsity: McClelland, Cowan, and played eighteen holes last week, picking the low two to play with Captain Bill Snow and Charlie Ross. Maples led McClelland by one stroke, and Cowan and Westall followed close behind. The team that plays in the first match are Snow, Ross, McClelland, and Maples. Saturday the varsity will be selected in competition from these six who were the low scorers in a previous round. Four letter-men returned from last year: Ross, Snow, McClelland, and Cowan. With Maples and Westall, they form the nucleus of golf material. Prof. McGavock, the golf practice advisor, often accompanies the team to Charlotte because of the poor condition of the college course. A difficult season awaits the golf team on the links with extensive trips during the spring vacation. The University of Georgia, Georgia Tech, Emory University, and several others beginning an extensive trip.

BASEBALL ASPIRANTS SHOW FIRE AND PEP AS PRACTICE BEGINS

LEWIS ENTERS TENNIS FINALS
Downs Barnett in Semi-Finals; To Meet Kenney or Carlson This Week

Playing at the height of his game, Lewis swept to the finals of the spring tennis tournament. This is the annual event of the team. With flat drives and working well, Lewis conquered Martin, Barnett, and Smith, by set scores of 6-0, 6-0. He previously defeated Wittenberger, 6-0, 6-1. In the final match, Bronston won number 2, and Carlson seeded 8, were interrupted. Kent had disposed of La Woodward, 10-8, 6-4 in the first round, and Jake Morrow in the quarter-finals. Young defeated Bell, 6-3, 6-1; Barnett, 3, defeated Wood Hornbeck. (Continued on Page 6).

FRATERNITIES START TRACK
Eight Competition Between Fraternities on Hill Begins Wednesday

Track trials number of which will be held today. This is the first year track has been included in the fraternity program. Pete Whittle stated that he was confident that the different groups would enter full teams. Each fraternity is permitted to enter two men in each event. The rules regarding other inter-fraternity sports apply to this track meet, with the exception that freshmen in spring training are eligible. The regular rule is as follows: “No man is eligible to compete in inter-fraternity sports if he is in spring training in that particular sport.” The managers of the respective teams met Tuesday to make the drawings for the heats which were run today. This afternoon, trials in the 100-yard dash, 220-yard dash, 120-yard low hurdles, broad jump, shot put, discus, and javelin throws were held. Three heats were held in the 100-yard dash, the first and second men in each heat advancing to the finals planned for tomorrow. Four runners will be chosen to compete in the finals of the 220-yard dash. Five entries in the 100-yard low hurdles will be in the finals. In all the field and weight events, four entries are allowed, and the highest nine men go to the finals. The high jump is an exception to this, as it will be run off tomorrow without eliminations beforehand. The 440-yard run, the 660-yard run, the three-quarter mile run, and the one-half mile relay will be staged on the final day. The track events will figure in this year’s inter-fraternity standings, and the points will be awarded as usual.

CHARLOTTE, N. C.
FAUL AND CRYMES, INC.
SPORTING GOODS
415 SOUTH TRYON ST.

“TIMERS READY — WRESTLE!”
Wildcat Captain Leroy Blackwelder is shown (above) as he pinned Frosh Captain Ed Ellis in 3 minutes and 34 seconds to win the 158-pound A. A. U. title. Jack Graves (below) standing with an unusual hold against Gholson of U. N. C. Graves lost by a decision.

Bill Quick Selected To Lead 1937 Cagers
At a meeting of the lettermen of the 1936 Wildcat basketball team, Clifford Quick was chosen to captain the 1937 basketeers. Quick, a letterman for the past two seasons, was co-captain during the past year with Maurice Peabody. Both Peabody and Quick are members of the junior class this year. There were no nominations made for the captaincy, as all rising seniors were eligible for the post.Voting was entirely between Peabody and Quick, with the latter winning out on the first ballot. Quick is an assistant in the Military Department and has completed his R.O.T.C. course, holding a commission as a second lieutenant. He has been a member of the varsity football squad for two years. Before coming to Davidson, Quick played both football and basketball at Charlotte High School, from which he graduated in 1933. He served on both athletic aggregations under the tutelage of Coach Walter Skidmore, whose University of North Carolina White Phantoms recently won both the North Carolina and Southern Conference championships in basketball. Quick led the first quint to represent Davidson as a member of the Southern Conference.

IT’S THE MAN THAT PAYS

Barber: “Shall I trim you a bit?”
Customer: “You might as well. I’m a father, a grocer, and it’s Christmas, and everybody's doing it.”

The latest suggestion from undertakers: “Why walk around dead when we will bury you for $2.98?”

Pessimist: Winner.

Decathlon to Be Held Later

Thirteen Events Are Offered Participants

The Decathlon has been postponed from this week to some time shortly after the Easter vacation, due to unavoidable circumstances. It consists of thirteen events, from which each participant may choose the ten in which he thinks he is best. For each event, there is a set time or distance to be used as the standard of judging. If a contestant is able to excel the standard, he, of course, receives extra points. The entrant receiving the most points in the ten events will be presented with a handsome medal on Athletic Day. Last year, Earl Frazier won the Decathlon, with Walt Dickson a close second. This year, more entrants than ever are expected in this competition. Participants in the Decathlon will come from members of the Junior college classes. Transfer students are encouraged to enter in order to find any available material for the track team during the coming year.

Davidson Class of ’38 Gym Champions

Holt, Templeton, Blue, and Harris Win Honors

The annual intramural gymnastics competition was completed last Saturday afternoon, March 16. The sophomore class won, amassing 901 points, and the senior class was the runner-up with 692 points. The freshman class placed third with 497 points, while the junior class finished up with 242 points. In the individual competition, Elmore Holt, a sophomore, was the winner, having earned 245 points, while J. Y. Templeton, with 242 points, was the runner-up. Bob Blue placed third with 209 points to his credit, and Jerry Harris placed fourth with a total of 148 points. Gordon Smith set the record last year by earning 247 points. The contest ran for two weeks and twenty-seven men participated. Points in the competition were given for proficiency in performing the various feats on the horizontal bar, the parallel bar, the horse, and in tumbling and conditioning exercises.

FRIEND MEETS FRIEND at White Drug Store

DAVIDSON’S OLDEST AND BEST

BLACKWELDER AND HODGIN EMERGE VICTORIOUS IN CAROLINA A. A. U.

FIVE GRAPPLERS ARE CROWNED CHAMPIONS OF A. A. U. TOURNAMENT

GREYS MAUL REDS 14-6

Johnson, Corbin, Hunter, Abell, and Nicholson Star for the Winners

REDS WIN ON FRIDAY

Lafferty, Corbin, Dennis Lead Reds to Victory

The Greys ran their winning streak to two straight last Wednesday and tied the Reds in the spring football standings, but a drastic change of personnel was effected prior to the game on Friday, and the Reds trounced their foes by an overwhelming deluge of touchdowns. On Wednesday, the Greys decisively trounced their opponents 14-6, and Beatty's smash off tackle saved the losers from being whitewashed. The game left little doubt as to the superiority of the Greys' offense. Both teams failed to respond to a one-day lay-off, and the game left little to show for anyone save the victorious Greys. The continued savage afternoon show of the Greys' defensive game and powerful offensive running attack left the outcome in little doubt. Lafferty and Corbin accounted for the scores, while Beatty chalked up the losers’ six points. Nick Nicholson, Tom Corbin, Joe Hunter, Bob Abell, and Dick Johnson starred for the Greys, while Ed Armfield, Bailey Williams, Bill Beatty, and Chubby King led the losers.

Instead of the game being moved up to Friday from Saturday, when the coaches had finished shifting several players from team to team, the Red lineup was far superior to that of the Greys. The final score stood 26-0 in favor of the Reds. With Lafferty and Dennis bearing the brunt of the attack, the Reds proceeded to overwhelm their foes in decisive fashion. Lafferty, Dennis, Williams, and Hicks were responsible for the victors’ tallies, and their wide-open attack left the outcome of the game in little doubt. Lafferty, Williams, and Dennis starred for the winners, and McClellan, King, and Frank Harrison were outstanding for the Reds. The final games of spring practice will be held on Tuesday and Friday of this week.

NED IVERSON IS CHOSEN CAPT.

Iverson Is Elected to Be Frosh Cage Captain

At a meeting of the entire Freshman basketball squad, at the end of their successful season, Ned Iverson was elected honorary captain of the team by his teammates. Throughout this year, before each game, a new captain was appointed to serve during the game, and every man served in this capacity at least once. In this way, they all got the experience, and the boys had something to base their voting on when the election took place. Every man was automatically eligible for the post, since there were no nominations. Instead, each player wrote his choice on a slip of paper. Iverson was elected on the first ballot.

(Continued on Page 6)

WHAT DO YOU WANT?

THE SOUTHERN 5 & 10c STORE HAS IT

Six Wrestlers Win Olympic Tryout Titles and Qualify for Finals

MATCHES THRILL CROWD

Davidson and W. & L. Each Win Two Olympic Berths

With the crowning of five new A.A.U. champions and the selection of six winners for the Olympic tryouts, the final wrestling tournament terminated last Saturday night. The matches were conducted according to the requirements of the Athletic Board in both the A.A.U. and the Olympic tryouts. The A.A.U. winners are as follows:

123-pound class: Milton Gaskill of Barium Springs.
134-pound class: Ralph Spencer of Barium Springs.
145-pound class: Wilbur Gholson of North Carolina.
155-pound class: Leroy Blackwelder of Davidson.
174-pound class: Jim Hodgin of Davidson.

There were no entries in either the 191-pound or the unlimited class. Only wrestlers from the Carolinas were eligible for honors. In the Olympic section, six winners are eligible for the finals in Bethlehem, Pennsylvania. The Olympic tryout winners are as follows:

123-pound class: Robert Kemp, Washington and Lee.
134-pound class: Ralph Spencer, Barium Springs.
145-pound class: Wilbur Gholson, North Carolina.
155-pound class: Leroy Blackwelder, Davidson.
174-pound class: Jim Hodgin, Davidson.
Unlimited class: Hugo Bonino, Washington and Lee.

The winners in both sections, with two exceptions, were the same grapplers. Robert Kemp, who won the right to go to the Olympic finals at Bethlehem, was not eligible for A.A.U. honors due to the fact that he was not from the Carolinas. The runner-up, Milton Gaskill of Barium Springs, was automatically A.A.U. champ. In the unlimited class, Hugo Bonino of Washington and Lee defeated Logan of Annapolis for the right to compete in the finals at Bethlehem but was ineligible for A.A.U. laurels.

The match opened literally with a “grunt n’ groan” classic. “Doc” Unger and Parks Harrison put on...

(Continued on Page 6)

UNDERGRAD CLOTHES

Under-Grad Clothes put themselves “in right” for spring 1936 with style details young men like... casually-rolled lapels... new shoulder developments... sport backs that are off the beaten path... five-button vests... and the very, very new high-rise French-waistband trouser.

$27.50 - $39.50

Two Trousers

TATE-BROWN CO.
College Shop
Third Floor