SIBERIAN SINGERS TO PRESENT NEXT CONCERT IN SERIES

DAVIDSON OFFERED SEAT IN SOUTHERN CONFERENCE

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

VOL. XXIII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FEBRUARY 12, 1936 NUMBER 15

D.C. ADMITTED TO SOUTHERN CONFERENCE

HEAD OF EDUCATION TO BE FEATURE OF CONCERT SERIES

BIDS ISSUED AFTER DEPARTMENT TALKS SATURDAY MEETING TO LARGE CONC LAVE

Citadel, Furman, Wake Forest, William & Mary, U. of Richmond Taken In

H. M. MOFFETT

“Christianity and the Present Social Crisis” Subject of Talks Sunday

MEMBERS INCLUDE TEN

Davidson Minister Takes Christ’s Redemption as Subject

Coaches Uncertain Whether Davidson Will Accept Bid

Says Moral Foundations Have Been Undermined

1928 Broadway Hit, “The Queen’s Husband” to Be Given Early in March

After several years of petitioning, Davidson College was admitted to the Southern Conference by the vote of the athletic conference at a special meeting held in Richmond last Friday and Saturday. Citadel and Furman, from South Carolina, and William & Mary and the University of Richmond, from Virginia, were also included in this epochal session, which was particularly noteworthy because it marked the adoption of Dr. Frank P. Graham’s “Plan,” which opposes the subsidization of athletes and will perhaps be the most potent factor in producing a distorted sense of values in the minds of our young people.

Dr. P. H. Gwynn, head of the Department of Education, addressed a group of Presbyterian ministers here on Tuesday, February 4, on the subject, “Christianity and the Present Social Crisis.” Dr. Gwynn said that the world is facing changes in social and moral thinking, and there is a loosening of social and moral restraints today. In America, the speaker said, the moral foundations have been undermined. Respect for the ancient virtues is in many quarters looked upon as a sign of senility. What produces the ethical confusion which characterizes our whole national life?

First of all, students have been taught to put their entire faith in scientific method as a cure-all and to arrive at independent convictions. Our mass education fails to produce leadership adequate for a time of social crisis. Our highly artificial methods of academic instruction contribute little to the powers of analyzing ethical problems and arriving at independent convictions. The mechanization of every department of American life, such as commercialized amusements with their attendant evils, which are the product of this machine age; the mechanistic interpretation of man’s nature caused by this same mechanistic civilization; the spirit of greed which is nourished by mass production; the machine and the organization of life into a mechanical routine—all these factors contribute to the present atmosphere of moral indifference and confusion.

The Davidson band played the first of a series of four quarter-hour programs over the Dixie network of the Columbia Broadcasting System last Wednesday night. This program was broadcast through the facilities of Station WBT of Charlotte, and was relayed to seventeen stations throughout the South. However, the program could not be received from Station WBT.

Mr. Grier Martin, alumni secretary, said that the world is facing changes in social and moral thinking, and there is a loosening of social and moral restraints today. In America, the speaker said, the moral foundations have been undermined. Respect for the ancient virtues is in many quarters looked upon as a sign of senility. What produces the ethical confusion which characterizes our whole national life?

The Davidson College Board of Trustees will hold its annual meeting Wednesday morning, February 19, at ten o'clock, A.M. This gathering will be preceded by a meeting of the executive committee of the board which will be held Tuesday, February 18 at two-thirty P.M. This committee consists of ten members whose duty is to go over all matters to come before the board and recommend the actions to be taken by the board.

The cast is as follows: King Eric VIII, Bob Lindsay; Queen Martha, Letitia Currie; Princess Anne, Lucy Currie; Prince William, Bill Mac; Lord Birtin, C.N. Malone; General Northbrun, Hector McGeachy; Major Blent, Bill Snow; Dr. Fellman, John Conter.

Pictured above are the World Famous Siberian Singers, who will give a concert in the Chamber's Auditorium on the night of February 25th. This will be the most outstanding entertainment in the concert series arranged by the Davidson Music Department.

The Russian Glee Club will present the third concert of the Davidson College series on Tuesday, February 25. The program, of religious music in seven languages, will be followed by a meeting of the executive committee of the board which will be held Tuesday, February 18 at two-thirty P.M. This committee consists of ten members whose duty is to go over all matters to come before the board and recommend the actions to be taken by the board.

The Rev. R. C. Cunningham, D.D., former president of Louisville Theological Seminary, will address the Vesper service next Sunday.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Ge Pie i ca ae See: which have been created, made a talk in which he briefly told the location and other facts concerning Davidson College. A picture of the band (post card size) was offered to all who desired it. The first number of the program was a concert march by Olivadoti, "Hall of Fame," which was written for and introduced by the Bachman Million Dollar Band of Chicago. The next number was a selection from "The Merry Widow" by Lehár. It was followed by one of Franko Goldman’s most popular marches, “Cheerio.” The band played next a hymn, "My Jesus as Thou Wilt," by Carl Van Weber. The program closed with Wagner's famous march, “Under the Double Eagle.”

The second program of the series will be heard tonight at 7:15 P.M.

Rev. Herbert Johnson to Make Speech on Some Scandinavian Countries

The Davidson College Committee on Lectures announces that Rev. Herbert Johnson, of Salem, will lecture in Chamber A on Tuesday night, February 24, at 7:30 P.M., on the general topic of Scandinavian countries. This program is part of a new class of lectures undertaken. Through her efforts and under her sponsorship, these officers have been heard in more than 700 concerts in this country and across the Atlantic. The most important ones in order to come to play are the Westminster Choir, under the direction of Dr. Finley Williamson, will give a concert in Charlotte on February 20, at 8:30 P.M., in the City Armory Auditorium. The choir has toured the United States and Europe with immense success, receiving official acclaim in many of the continental cities and two in the United States. Tickets for the concert are on sale at the Brodt Music Company, 5 North Tryon Street, in Charlotte, and can also be obtained by writing to L. R. Sides, City Hall, Charlotte.

Dr. S. Bell Is Oldest Remaining Graduate

Dr. S. Bell, of Wrightsville, Pa., is the oldest living graduate of Davidson College. He served as a member of the War Work Council of the Presbyterian Church. Dr. Bell received his degree from the University of South Carolina and his Divinity degree from Washington University. He retired from active service in 1918.

---

This cleaned text maintains the original structure and punctuation while correcting OCR errors for better readability.