WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 7, 1936 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Five

Prof. Henry Lilly Studies In Italy During Summer
Lives in Italian Home While Studying at University For Foreigners

STUDIES AS BEGINNER
Visits France and Paris While On Way Back

If you had happened to be walking down Via delle Convertite in Rome this summer on a warm evening, you might have looked in a window and seen Professor Lilly laboriously translating his Italian lesson for the next day’s recitation. While we still had a set of examinations between us and freedom last spring, Professor Lilly was secretly planning his escape from Davidson as well. However, he left only in order that he might turn right around and start all over again. The cylinders of the lock on his office had hardly fallen in place before a taxicab was hailed in New York by a blonde, smiling gentleman who wished to be transported to the dock of the Italian Line steamer Vulcania. A few weeks later, this same gentleman disembarked at the Italian port of Trieste.

In Rome, where the style trend in shirts is definitely on the dark side this fall, Lilly entered the Corso Di Roma at the Instituto Inter-universitario Italiano. For three months, Professor Lilly studied in this same school, which is what the name implies—he took two separate courses in Italian. Attacking the language from two flanks at the same time, Professor Lilly lived in the home of an Italian family all summer. Unless he wanted to starve, he had to learn Italian. Taken at its face value, one might be led to suspect Professor Lilly of trying to sneak a little grand opera in on the side, for it was the home of an Italian music teacher. He did not give any reason for it, but after he left, Professor Lilly did not come straight home. They say that sooner or later, gay Paree gets them all. But we have nothing to pin on the professor, and all we could coax from him was a bland smile. What does the professor think of Il Duce? You ask him.

Sigma Upsilon Holds First Meeting Soon

Sigma Upsilon, National Honorary Fraternity, will hold its first meeting of the year Monday, October 12th. Plans for the coming year will be made at this meeting, according to J. D. Allen, president of the group. President Allen stated that an effort will be made to secure Carl Sandburg, noted poet, to address the club after he speaks to the Davidson student body. The meeting called for Monday, October 5th, was called off, and the club will not meet until the date stated above.

LIGHTING FIXTURES
ELECTRICAL APPLIANCES
RADIOS

M. H. GOODRUM & CO.

PAN-HELLENIC GROUP TO SPONSOR SOCIAL EVENTS OF GREEKS

Inter-Fraternity Group Supervises Annual Week of Rushing Activities

The Pan-Hellenic Council, with Ed Armfield as president, has just completed its supervision of a most successful rushing week. The Council, which is the governing body of the social fraternities, is composed of one representative from each fraternity. From this group, a president and treasurer are selected, and throughout the year, this body sponsors the other combined social events and activities carried on by the fraternities. Representatives on the council this year are as follows: Bob Johnson, Beta Theta Pi; Daymond Turner, Sigma Phi Epsilon; Ed Armfield, Sigma Alpha Epsilon; Dunlap Covington, Pi Kappa Phi; Russell Patterson, Phi Gamma Delta; J. G. Crowell, Kappa Alpha; Billy Hill, Kappa Sigma; Ken Knorr, Pi Kappa Alpha; and Jack Branch, Phi Delta Theta. Ken Knorr is treasurer of the Council for the coming year.

NEW ADDITION TO STADIUM

Boston Symphony Leader Expresses Ideas on Jazz

GOVERNMENT ALLOTS GRANTS TO STUDENTS
Special Drought Relief Features Program

Totaling $19,606,767, aid will be furnished to students throughout the various branches of education in the country this year. Colleges of the 48 states and the District of Columbia will receive about two-thirds of this allotment, while high schools will get the remainder.

DEPUTATION PRES. LINGLE HOLDS SERVICE AT ORPHANAGE
Alumni Head Barium Springs Institution

On Sunday morning, Dr. W. L. Lingle, president of the college, motored to Barium Springs Orphanage at Barium Springs, where he conducted Sunday services. Dr. Lingle addressed the 315 children of the institution on the subject of “The New Commandment.”

OPERATION OF GRID GRAPH IS BIG TASK; TAKES ELEVEN MEN
Operators Must Combine Speed and Accuracy with Imagination

Running a grid-graph is a big job; it takes eleven men. One person moves the flashlight, another controls the lights that indicate the names of the players on the home team, and another does the same thing for the opposite players. One person looks after the substitutions, one controls the yards gained, and one switches the lights on and off. It takes two men to sell tickets and take up the tickets, and there is no profit-making from the sale of tickets. Everything is done to pay for the description.

Fiedler Believes More Composition Needed in Jazz

Sweating and perspiring freely, Fiedler, leader of the Boston Symphony, was still interested in music. Practically born into it, his father was a symphony conductor, and with a certain amount of talent, hard work, and study, one can make a good musician. Music is his only interest, for he is also an avid tennis player and horseman. While on vacation, he spends time in the field. The conductor has engagements in the eastern United States. After playing before huge audiences, Fiedler says he spends time in interesting localities.

DAVIDSON THEATRE
Wednesday, Oct. 7
THE DEVIL IS A SISSY

With a cast of youthful talent including Freddie Bartholomew, Jackie Cooper, Mickey Rooney, Peggy Conklin, and Katherine Alexander, this plot is a heart-rending “melodrama.” The plot, though simple, moves swiftly, bringing back our childhood days. A good picture.

Thurs. & Fri. Oct. 8-9
RAMONA
One of the firsttalking pictures ever to be made comes back to us on retake. This time it is in color, Loretta Young. In the supporting cast are Don Ameche, Kent Taylor, Pauline Frederick, and stars Jane Darwell. All about Indian life—a tender love story.

* * *

Sat. Oct. 10
SWORN ENEMY
A convincing story of a young attorney who swears vengeance on the racketeers who killed his brother. Acting honors go to Robert Young, Florence Rice, and Joseph Calleia. Very worthwhile.

Mon. Tues, Oct 12-13
MUMMY BOY
A right new, exciting, pass-the-time picture. The acting is good in spots and excellent in bits. As a whole, “Mummy Boy” is a swell product of Hollywood.

* * *

Davidson Theatre
Wed. Oct. 7
THE DEVIL IS A-SISSY
Freddie Bartholomew, Jackie Cooper, Mickey Rooney, Peggy Conklin, and Katherine Alexander.

Thurs. and Fri. Oct. 8-9
RAMONA
Starring Loretta Young with Don Ameche, Kent Taylor, Pauline Frederick, and Jane Darwell. This time it is in color.

Sat. Oct. 10
SWORN ENEMY
With Robert Young, Florence Rice, and Joseph Calleia.

Mon. and Tues. Oct. 12-13
MUMMY BOY
An exciting, pass-the-time picture. Acting is good in spots.

* * *

KIND TO YOUR THROAT—A Light Smoke
There's a friendly relaxation in every puff and a feeling of comfort and ease when your cigarette is a Light Smoke of rich, ripe-bodied tobacco—A LUCKY.

Copyright 1936, The American Tobacco Company

If you believe in a Light Smoke, you believe in Luckies! Among all cigarettes, this is the one which offers you the welcome protection of all-day smoking pleasure! Luckies are A Light Smoke of rich, ripe-bodied tobacco.

* * *

NEWS FLASH!
“Sweepstakes” employs 6,000 to address entries! Over 6,000 people are employed in addressing return entry cards for that great national cigarette game, Lucky Strike “Sweepstakes.” Entries come from every State in the U.S. Have you entered yet? Have you won your Luckies—a flat tin of 50 delicious Lucky Strikes? Tune in “Your Hit Parade”—Wednesday and Saturday evenings. Listen, judge, and compare the tunes—then try Your Lucky Strike “Sweepstakes.” And if you're not already smoking Luckies, buy a pack today and try them, too. Maybe you've been missing something. You'll appreciate the advantages of Luckies—a Light Smoke of rich, ripe-bodied tobacco.

* * *

BATONIST HAS HOBBIES
Tennis and Horsemanship

Although suffering from the heat of a warm southern night, Arthur Fiedler managed to “jazz” that would please almost anybody. Mr. Fiedler said: “Jazz is very favorably and becoming more intricate in composition.”

This new concrete addition to the stadium on Richardson Field will first be used on October 10th, when the Davidson Wildcats play V. M. I. Cadets. Old and new stands, erected by Smith and Lunsford in honor of their father, now seat 5,530.

Music is not the only interest of Mr. Fiedler. He has always been attracted to painting. When he was building a telegraph instrument, he said: “Music is not the only art form that interests me.”

The Little Symphony, which Mr. Fiedler has conducted for the past eleven years, has experienced travel and audiences across the states. The Royal Academy in Berlin and the Boston Symphony have also been part of his musical journey.

Among other outstanding fraternity men are the presidents of the various local chapters of the nine national Greek organizations that are represented on the Davidson campus. All of the fraternity heads are members of the Class of ‘37 and two of them are members of the Pan-Hellenic Council. The chapter presidents, who are given certain honorable titles according to the fraternity, are:

(Continued on Page 6)

* * *

Eleventh Commandment
The main theme of the conference was closer co-operation with the Y. M. C. A. and Y. W. C. A. Except for a few colleges (Davidson included), eight colleges of this neighborhood were represented. This form of relief has been furnished only to 20 mid-western and southern states. Of these states, Oklahoma and Missouri received the largest allotments.

(Continued on Page 6)

* * *

Barium Springs institution, the Orphans’ home of the Synod of North Carolina of the Presbyterian Church, is supervised by several alumni of Davidson College. Mr. Joseph B. Johnson, a distinguished alumnus and a member of the Alumni Council, is at the head of the institution. Mr. Ernest Milton, formerly alumni secretary here, and several other alumni of the college hold responsible positions in the orphans’ institution.

(Continued on Page 6)