Page Six THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 9, 1936

Dr. C. R. Harding Rounds Half Century As Teacher

Was Instructor at Hampden-Sidney and University of Virginia

IS PROFESSOR OF GREEK

Graduated From Davidson in Class of 1880

Dr. C. R. Harding, the professor who has served Davidson longer than any other, 49 years, entered this institution as a freshman in September, 1876. At that time Davidson had six professors, and about 88 students. After his graduation he went to Hopkins University, substituted at Hampden-Sidney in 1880, Johns College as Professor of Greek for two years, and returned to Hopkins where he received his degree. He taught for several years at the University School in Virginia, where Dr. Harding met the lady who has been his companion for nearly fifty years.

Dr. Harding came to Davidson as professor in 1888, when Dr. W. L. Lingle entered as a freshman. At that time both Greek and Latin were compulsory for any A. B. degree; later only one was required, and Dr. Harding remarked, “It won't be long before neither will be required, if Davidson follows the unwise example of other institutions.” He commented on the current trend that the study of Greek and Latin is easier than the study of modern languages.

At Davidson, Dr. Harding has prepared several manuscripts, which have not yet been published in book form; one of these is very large, a manual on Greek Literature, with English translations and commentaries. At a meeting of the Southern Branch of the Classical Association last year, Dr. Harding was made president for the year. A committee was appointed to publish the status of Latin in the South, with Professor Wagner of the University of Virginia as chairman. Dr. Harding is sympathetic toward the rehabilitation or reviving of elementary Latin in the public schools of this state, in sympathy with movements in other states in the South. He believes that something can be done by having the claims of Latin presented in various clubs and organizations in the state, such as the Parent-Teacher Associations, Clubs of University Women, Rotary, Lions, and all similar organizations.

Dr. Harding is in his 49th year as professor here, and he hopes “that the Lord and the administration will allow me to round out my fiftieth year.”

SIGMA UPSILON HEARS PAPERS

Sigma Upsilon, National Honorary Literary Fraternity, held its regular meeting on Monday, November 30, at the Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity house. The usual business and routine matters were taken up and afterwards a short reading was presented by Lynwood Brown. Also, a short sketch on southern life was presented by Gib Smith.

HOOD DISCUSSES (Continued from Page 5)

...tom which forbids a King to marry a commoner that this will be a far step toward compromising the position of the governing class in England, which is the old aristocratic families. “It seems to me to be among its many angles a contest between aristocracy and the proletariat.” Dr. Hood thought that the young King was much more moral in his deepest convictions than many another of his predecessors because instead of going ahead and forming a marriage in appearance and marrying for political reasons only and then taking mistresses for love, Edward came out into the open and fought for the marriage of love in order that his legal wife would also be his ethical wife.

DAVIDSON GRAPPLERS OPEN SEASON SATURDAY

The Davidson varsity wrestling team, under the leadership of Captain Charlie Parker, will open its season December 12th with Spray Y. M. C. A. at Spray. One other match will be staged before Christmas, with Winston-Salem Y. at Winston-Salem. Parks Harrison, last year’s freshman coach, has taken over the varsity job this year and hopes for a successful season. Matches with Southern Conference foes, and with the University of Tennessee, Maryville College, and the powerful High Point Y have been scheduled after the holidays.

HAPPY NEW YEAR FOR NORTHWESTERN U.

EVANSTON, Ill.—(ACP)—The personnel of Northwestern University is looking forward to a happy New Year. President Walter Dill Scott has announced that the salaries of all educational and administrative staff members who were in the service prior to September 1, 1933, will receive an increase in salary January 1, 1937. This will apply to members who have already received a 10 per cent increase during the past three and a half years. A five per cent raise will be given to all members appointed since September 1, 1933, who receive less than $2,000 and have been employed at least six months.

SWEEPING THE CAMPUS (Continued from page 2)

...gage trunk, one of the boys was backing off one of the passengers sighed with relief that it wasn't singing. The boy in blue is Cline. “Touch of Your Lips” Frank Harrison cleverly arranged. He hoped his date wouldn't be taller than he. And Phyllis wined the elevator so he could run the elevator. Who were the two night owls who dashed into an elevator, found the faculty there, and dashed back out? And who put the dunce cap on Salty during his siesta in the Tavern? Branton frightens the pug-nacious with his mean look. Nickles would now be scared, but he doesn't. Howard Covington's hackneyed version of “d rep” and Pete Marchant squiring for that Furman-lance. Pinky-Puss Mills did all his Xmas shopping at the five and dime. The classic of the weekend was H. Lutz apologizing when a Houdini would have been much more effective. The freshman who got green- with Pep. The Pi Kaps even get a cigar for that tossing. Hotel Charlotte on the rampage. When the fleet goes north, Wade Bardin follows the fleet, by George. And Bill McLear already decorated for the holidays. Walt Dickson, Pinkney Stowe, Bob Stewart, Gene Vogler, Johnny Latimer, Jim Dorsett, and Ernie Dooley to Hollins and Randolph-Macon. Walt should be sure what is in his pocket next time. Jim Wilson and John Milnes are singing “Who Comes In When I Go Out.” Ed Bitties of the Weerate with Sam Hemp and Yens being the participants. A story about an illiterate taxi driver who sent an itemized bill for taxi fare like this: 2 -3 goes a went. Gunga Dinn and Blade organized a get-together to get a Junior to get a Freshman to put up the Flag. The Freshman Class was invited by the Court of Control to a tea each afternoon for two weeks.

The biggest B. O. C. we've heard recently is the girl at Duke who is president of the Presidents Club. We've been yearning for a long time, in true Winchellian anticipation, for a blessed event and are happy to announce the appearance in the near future of the Yowl’s offspring—the Christmas edition of Scrips ’n Pranks. Regard the cover, it's a honey. P. S.—Who is going to play for Mid-Winters?

Teams Begin Practice For Class Basketball

Heralded by one of Davidson's traditional rains, class basketball got off...to a rather late start as the prospective quints began practice on the hardwood last Monday night. A strong Centennial quintet, with three years’ experience of playing together behind them, will be coached by Bankhead. The juniors will be out fighting for the championship, coached by Willard Dixon. The sophomores, last year’s champions, lost their star players to the Kitten basketball squad, but will try to keep the crown again under Cage Brewer's coaching. The freshmen cagers, placed in the lower brackets in intramural contests so far, hope to imitate their forerunners of last year and win the title from the sophomores. The frosh will suffer heavily from the loss of their strongest cagers to the frosh basketball squad. Yearwood will act as coach for the Kittens.

MEDICAL TEST IS GIVEN

Last Friday, Dec. 4th, 20 students took the medical aptitude test offered by the school. These tests are sent to the secretary of the Association of American Medical Colleges in Washington D.C. Each test is graded and scored and the results are sent directly to the medical colleges. Ninety per cent of the colleges now use the results of these medical tests as a factor in the selection of students.

Workmen chiseled the front steps of Indiana University’s law building as smooth as they were in 1890.

“Dime Ay meHenieee” have gone over so well at Midland College that they will be presented at intervals throughout the remainder of the school year.

DAVIDSON THEATER

Wed.-Thurs, Dec. 9-10
Born To Dance—Eleanor Powell is at her greatest in this delightful musical comedy. She performs numerous new dance routines in an ingenuously constructed plot. This picture needs no introduction because the talents of Eleanor are known to everyone.

Fri-Sat. Dec. 11-12
Tarzan Escapes—This picture is the most interesting of the Tarzan adventure series and excellent performances are given by Johnny Weissmuller, Maureen O'Sullivan, and Benita Hume. Herbert Mundin proves delightful as the comedy relief. The jungle background is spectacular.

Mon.-Tues. Dec. 14-15
Banjo On My Knee—Joel McCrea and Barbara Stanwyck turn in the greatest performance of their careers. This is one of the six best pictures released in the past two months and contains some excellent acting. By all means see it!

Dr. and Mrs. J. W. MacConnell entertained at dinner on Friday evening for Miss Lucy Currie and Mr. Frontis Johnston.

Major W. C. Weems, former head of the R.O.T.C. Unit in Davidson, visited in town over the weekend.

CAT - NIPS (Continued from Page 4)

Often the captain of our football team, and All-Southern, All-State (and All-American mention) guard who can write or who will write. So from now on, Dick will give up the athlete’s slants on campus sports events.

Blocker Corbin

Congratulations are in order for Tom Corbin (the Fremont Flash). Tom has been awarded the Millis trophy, emblematic of the best blocking in the state and awarded to the man named as the state’s best blocker. You’ve heard of the backs blocking for the glory of the running backs. What's this, Tom, about a lineman clearing the way for the blocking back? Anyone who doesn't know the story behind this can find out by calling by 1 Georgia.

SCRIBERS, ANNOUNCERS AND (Continued from Page 4)

Johnny Mackorell was given honorable mention before one of the halfback posts. Lafferty was given honorable mention in this selection. Both Lafferty and Mackorell were given honorable mention on the NEA All-Southern team. North Carolina fans showed what they think of Davidson by choosing three Wildcats, Hunter, Johnson, and Lafferty, for the All-State team in a recent poll by The Charlotte Observer. Ed Armfield made the second team in this poll and nearly all the rest of Davidson's starting lineup received honorable mention. In the voting for the most valuable player in North Carolina, Lafferty ran a close second to Duke’s Ace Parker.

The birth of Fredrick Bond, Jr., to Mr. and Mrs. Fredrick B. Fleagle was announced last week.

HATS .. SHIRTS .. TIES .. SWEATERS
NEWBERG SHIRT SHOP
107 West Trade St.
Charlotte, N.C.

FRESHMAN DEBATERS (Continued from Page 5)

Charlie Mauze, freshman debating manager, stated that plans were being made to give the freshman team more meets than they have had the last few years. Several out-of-state trips are being planned. The University of Florida has already arranged to send its freshman team to the Davidson campus. Several other home clashes are being planned. However, no definite plans could as yet be announced. The freshman team is using the same question as the varsity. It is: “Resolved, that Congress should be given the right to set minimum wages and maximum hours for industry.”

SMITH ISSUES (Continued from Page 1)

There is also an article on the famous Carter family of Mt. Airy. From this family, the father and seven sons have graduated from Davidson. The plans for the forthcoming Centennial are also discussed.

DAVIDSON GRID SQUAD (Continued from Page 1)

A Charlotte alumnus approached that familiar subject of the Wildcat Spirit from a new angle in his speech. Dr. A. S. Johnson, Charlotte minister, and Mr. J. B. Johnston of Barium Springs, both of whom have sons on the team this year, were called upon for a few remarks.

BAND IS HONORED (Continued from Page 1)

All the outstanding musical personages of the United States will be present. It is planned for the Davidson Band to give one or two concerts on the way to Louisville and one or two on the way back. This Symphonic Band will give its first performance of the year here on December 18th.

PHI BETA KAPPA WILL (Continued from Page 1)

He is scheduled to speak in Chapel Saturday, December 12. Dr. Mims has also achieved prominence as the author of a number of books, including a Life of Sidney Lanier, and a more recent work entitled “Adventurous America.”

BAILEY WILLIAMS (Continued from Page 4)

The next thing on the football calendar is winter practice, which will begin on Monday, February 1, 1937, after the semester exams, and all men eligible to play are expected to report. This drill period will last about six weeks, weather permitting.

CHRISTMAS GIFTS
White Drug Store
“Davidson’s Oldest and Best”

for the good things smoking can give you

Chesterfields ... out of the Horn of Plenty come the good things that smokers enjoy

Copyright 1936, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.

... mild ripe tobaccos from the Carolinas, Georgia, Kentucky, Maryland, and Virginia—there’s aplenty of the best in Chesterfield.

... aromatic tobaccos from Turkey and Greece—and plenty to make Chesterfields taste better—and different.

Pleasing taste and aroma, refreshing mildness—Chesterfields are chockfull of the good things you enjoy in a cigarette.