THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 22, 1936 | Popular Novelist Speaks To Literary Fraternity Sigma Upsilon Group Hears Struthers Burt at Recent Meeting NEW MEMBERS ACCEPT Author Is Active in Various Literary Fields Sigma Upsilon, national literary fraternity, held a special meeting Monday night to hear an address by Mr. Struthers Burt. Mr. Burt is one of the United States’ very popular authors of the modern school. He is principally a novelist and has written several well-known works. Last year there was a novel of his entered in the North Carolina annual literary contest. Mr. Burt is active in other fields of literature as well, however. This month he has an article in Scribner's Magazine and is a regular contributor to various and sundry other periodicals. Carleton Chapman, president of the fraternity, invited the author to speak here and served as host to Mr. Struthers and his wife, who accompanied him on his trip to Davidson. Mr. Burt is now living in Southern Pines and motored up for the meeting. During the winter months, the author and his family spend their days in the sunny island of Bermuda. Sigma Upsilon met at 8 o'clock in the Phi Gamma Delta fraternity house. The program was given over entirely to Mr. Burt who spoke on modern writing and the selling of a work after one has written it. Getting a book published is sometimes as hard as writing it. Carleton Chapman introduced the speaker to those present. Following the meeting there was a feed given and the meeting took on a more social turn. The fraternity has been looking forward for quite a while to the coming of Struthers Burt. Present at the meeting Monday night were a number of men who were elected to membership last Monday. Those men are: Wade Boggs, Fitzhugh Dade, Euclid Fant, Bill Kiesewetter, Bill Mellwinen, Bob Stewart, Richard Vowles. Their presence Monday night signified their acceptance of the bids which were issued to them during the week. Members of Sigma Upsilon are selected on their interest and work in the field of literature.

PHI LITERARY GROUP SELECTS NEW HEADS R. W. Johnson, J. H. Gailey, and H. L. Harkey Elected Final elections of the year for officers of the Philanthropic Literary Society were held Tuesday, April 14. In the elections, R. W. (Six) Johnston was elected president; J. H. Gailey was elected vice-president; and Henry L. Harkey was re-elected secretary. George Hornbeck was elected first critic, and Bill Bell was elected second critic. After the elections, J. Y. Templeton gave a talk on “Faith Healing.” The meeting was adjourned by the usual motion. An inaugural speech by the president opened the program for the meeting of Tuesday, April 21. R. H. Lindsey then gave a humorous talk. Ken McIntyre spoke on the life of W. A. Mozart, famous German composer. William Johnston then gave a piano selection “Turkish March” by Mozart. The new officers were then inaugurated, and various committees were appointed. The meeting was adjourned by the usual motion.

HEART FAILURE—? Doctor (examining unconscious motorman): Did that automobile hit this car? Conductor: No sir. You see the driver stopped his auto to let the street car go by and the motorman fainted.

Hardware—Dry Goods Radios and Radio Supplies M.-H. GOODRUM & CO.

FORMER DAVIDSON MEN NOW STUDYING AT DUKE Three former students of Davidson College are among the more than one hundred graduate scholars submitting theses for advanced degrees at Duke University this year. They are: William Bee Ravenel, Jr., Charleston, S.C.; Gordon Reed Wood, South Charleston, W. Va.; and William Maroney Hart, Charlotte. Ravenel and Wood, studying in the department of English, are writing M.A. theses on the subjects “Alliteration in Spenser's Fairy Queen” and “The Pagan Element in Beowulf,” respectively. Hart, in the French department, is compiling a partial glossary of “Floire et Blancheflor” for his M.A. thesis. All three students have received A.B. degrees from Davidson College.

Wrong Picture Shown By Shipping Error Due to improper labeling, the moving pictures originally intended to be shown here last Friday night at 7 o'clock went elsewhere and another set was shown here. Only two reels were shown, one of which was “How All-Wool Blankets Are Made,” showing the selecting, assorting, dyeing, and weaving of the blankets. The other was entitled “Great Caesar’s Ghost,” which was an animated cartoon depicting scenes in Italy. Both were sound reels. The reels originally scheduled were: "Industrious Diamonds,” one reel silent, “Take It Easy,” one reel sound, and “The Test Supreme,” two reels sound. The departments of Chemistry and Physics expect to be able to present these reels in May if they are not already scheduled.

ROTC JUNIORS ATTEND CAMP THIS SUMMER Colonel Rhett Appoints Group Leaders in Various Camp Activities Plans are gradually taking shape for the junior R.O.T.C. students’ summer camp to be held at Fort McClellan, near Anniston, Ala., which will open on Sunday, June 7, and will be in operation until Saturday, July 18. The six weeks of camp is a part of the regular course for advanced R.O.T.C. students and therefore must be attended by all juniors in the department. Lieutenant-Colonel Ralph C. Holliday, an instructor at The Citadel, has been appointed camp commander, and Major Charles W. Seifert and Sergeant B. R. Burton, members of the faculty in this department here, have tentative orders for duty at the camp. Last week, in answer to a request from Colonel Holliday, Colonel Rhett appointed the group leaders as follows: Wilbur Edwards, representative for the group in civilian matters; Joe Hunter, captain of the military field meet; Ed Mack, captain of the rifle team; Maurice Peabody, captain of the swimming team; Jim Morton, captain of the boxing team; Jack Somerville, captain of the baseball team; and Jim Morton, John Winn, Hal Overton, Harry Kuykendall, and Daymond Turner, to be connected with the camp newspaper. During the past few weeks, Dr. McConnell has been busy inoculating these students for typhoid and vaccinating them for smallpox, in preparation for the period in camp. Fort McClellan is the post of a battalion of the Twenty-second Infantry and is used each summer for the R.O.T.C. camp, a C.M.T.C. camp, and the field maneuvers of the National Guard.

TWO SPEECHES TO SCIENTISTS F. M. Toole and W. B. Wartman Make Lectures to Gamma Sigma Epsilon Two technical speeches were heard by Gamma Sigma Epsilon at its last meeting, Monday, April 13. F. M. Toole lectured on the preparation and properties of liquid air and W. B. Wartman told of “Progress in Science in 1935.” During the last of this week, initiation of new members will take place and next Monday night at the regular meeting, an election of next year's officers will be held. An open meeting is planned for about the first of May for the chemistry department men who, by virtue of interest in chemistry and good grades in that subject, are prospects for Gamma Sigma Epsilon. The exact date will depend on the convenience of the guest speaker who will be an authority on some phase of chemistry. Bids are to be sent. Toole’s speech at the last gathering of the fraternity was somewhat hampered by the fact that the prohibitive price of liquid air made it impossible for him to give demonstrations of the properties of this liquid which exists only at -146 degrees centigrade. However, by means of diagrams, he illustrated how it makes rubber like glass in brittleness and does other seemingly impossible things. The extremes of pressure and temperature required to liquefy air, he explained in detail along with the uses of the comparatively new refrigerant in industry. Among the advances made in science in 1935 which Wartman listed in his speech were: A new method of overcoming surface tension in dyeing textiles so that the dye may penetrate into the cloth better and form fast colors. In medicine, he mentioned a new antitoxin for use against tetanus which prevents serum sickness, a mild (but dreaded) form of the disease itself. The greatest advance in photography is color movies which now can be taken in an ordinary moving picture camera and projected with standard equipment without the use of special filters and prisms. The film has a multiple layer of emulsions which acts as filters would and produces a film in full color which looks natural. In criminology, a method of showing fingerprints on other than slick surfaces has been perfected. A silver salt is poured on the spot and the chloride in human perspiration which is deposited by the finger precipitates the silver making the print visible. There were other minor advances that he listed, including the isolation of several of the vitamins, and agricultural discoveries.

Men Conduct Work At H.S. Twenty of the students in Dr. Gwynn's Education Class, who are planning to enter the teaching profession, have been doing “practice teaching” at the Davidson high school. This consists of the student conducting one of the classes in the field he is planning to enter. It has proved to be invaluable experience for the man is up against just the problems he will have later. The requirements are 30 hours of teaching and five hours of observing. All of this may be scattered through the whole year, whenever the man’s schedule will permit. A lesson plan must be made for each day's teaching and it is subject to the approval of the high school teacher who ordinarily conducts the class. The following is a list of the subjects and the men who are teaching them: Physical Education — L. J. Blackwelder, W. W. Burns, C. H. Hand; History and Civics — J. E. Bowers, T. B. Hoover, R. W. Johnson, L. T. Purnell; French — C. tetanus

BETWEEN DANCES.... We are looking forward to entertaining Davidson students and their dates this weekend. Make this your Charlotte headquarters. WOODEN BOWL DINING ROOM 125 W. FOURTH ST., CHARLOTTE, N. C.

ENDEAVOR HAS NEW OFFICERS Christian Endeavor Names Brown, Wilkerson, and Miss Raymer On Sunday, April 19, the Senior Christian Endeavor of the Davidson College Church held its election of officers for the coming year. The members who were elected to the various offices were as follows: W. C. (Bill) Brown, president; W. A. Wilkerson, vice-president; and Miss Rachel Raymer, secretary-treasurer. The nominations for the various offices were as follows: for president, W. C. Brown, W. T. Manson, Jr., and S. S. Ryburn; for vice-president, A. L. Bixler, J. L. Smith, and W. A. Wilkerson; and for secretary-treasurer, Miss Raymer and J. M. Mawhinney, Jr. These newly elected officers will take charge of the society beginning May 3rd. They will also appoint a council of seven members to help them in their work. Officers of the society for the past year were: W. M. Wicker, presi-dent: Miss Margaret Douglass, vice-president; A. R. Cates, Jr., secretary-treasurer. The Christian Endeavor meets each Sunday night in the main auditorium of the college church immediately after vespers.

THEORY OF EINSTEIN RELATED TO “EUREKA”
Poe and Einstein Say There Are Only Two Primary Laws

Burlington, Vt — (ACP) — Einstein’s latest theory—that gravitation and electricity combine to form solid matter, a development of his theory of electrical bridges between repulsion of the principle of t No other principles exist, says: All are referable to one or the other of these two, which stand for the material and the spiritual principles of the universe. “Discarding now the equivocal termings"—to quote from “Eureka”—“let us adopt the more definite expression, ‘attraction’ and ‘repulsion.’ The former is the body, the latter the soul; the one is the material, the other the spiritual principle of the universe. No other principles exist. All phenomena are referable to one or to the other, or to both combined. So rigorously is this the case, so thoroughly demonstrable is it: that attraction and repulsion are the sole properties through which we perceive the universe—in other words, by which Matter is manifested to Mind—that, for all merely argumentative purposes, we are fully justified in assuming that matter exists only as attraction and repulsion—that attraction and repulsion are matter; there being no conceivable case in which we may not employ the term ‘Matter’ and the terms ‘Attraction’ and ‘Repulsion’ taken together, as equivalent and therefore, convertible expressions in logic.”

Bernard Krasner, 41, who matriculated at C. C. N.Y. when he was a peer, among the GREEKS:

BETA THETA PI—Bill Coffin and Bill Hobbs visited their homes in Asheboro. Eddie Steere went to Charlotte Saturday, and Sunday his father visited him. The regular Sunday night feed was held.

PI KAPPA ALPHA—Brother Henry Hodgin, an alumnus, of Red Springs, and Miss McKennon visited the chapter Sunday. Sky Cline and Ogburn Spoon visited Greensboro over the weekend. Walt Dickson went to Hollins, while Billy Moore sojourned at Wrightsville Beach. Bill Cox went to a house party in Charlotte, while Bill Pierce and Julian Webb went fishing in the Catawba River over the weekend. Addison Long visited his parents in Statesville. Billy Archer saw his folks at Salisbury, and John Tarton and Sam Milton spent the weekend at their homes in Albemarle.

KAPPA ALPHA—Dick Taylor, Joe Calvin, Rey Harris, Tom Downie, and Sandy and Polk Moffett visited in Greensboro on Saturday. Bob Abell and Ranks Gladden visited at Converse. Joe Dailey and Marshall Sanford sojourned in Rock Hill, S.C. Bud Okey and Sam Newell visited Charlotte. J. C. Crowell visited his home in Charlotte. Joe Johnston visited his parents at Barium Springs, Horace Lutz went to Hickory, and Harvey McConnell visited his folks in Chester, S.C. Plans for a banquet to be held between the tea dance and the Saturday night dance at the Hotel Charlotte are being made.

PHI KAPPA PHI—Dunny Covington visited Greensboro over the weekend, while Joe Hunter went to Charlotte. Jimson Maples left with the golf team for Carolina. A banquet is being planned to take place in the S. & W. Cafeteria in Charlotte between the tea dance and the night dance on Saturday.

SIGMA ALPHA EPSILON—Ed Artfield visited his home in Asheville. Mark Cauble was in Winston-Salem, and Henry Eve and George Matthis sojourned in Durham at the latter’s home. Tom Marchant went to his home in Greenville, S.C. A farewell party was given to Mr. and Mrs. Grier Martin on Tuesday night. Wednesday Mr. and Mrs. J. A. Latimer, and their three younger children, of Washington D.C. visited the chapter. They are the parents of John Latimer.

KAPPA SIGMA—Mat Grimes and Charles Thompson visited their homes in Lexington, while Tom Morrison went to his home in Concord. Tom Henderson, Ray Pittman, and “Skinny” Stevens went to Greensboro. Wade Barrow and John Mosely have just recently returned from a track trip. Harry Frampton and Carl Carlson are away with the varsity tennis team. Brothers McQueen and McLaurin attended a dance at Converse.

PHI GAMMA DELTA—Arthur Cooke and Al Overton visited their homes in Greensboro. Erney Dooley and Eugene Vogler visited Winston-Salem, staying at the home of Mrs. E. Miss Martha Brewer of Clarksdale, Miss., visited the chapter Saturday and Sunday, and will return Friday. They are the mother and sister of Cage Brewer. Brother C. E. Edger of the class of ‘28, from Montgomery, Ala., visited the chapter over the weekend. A banquet has been planned to take place between the Saturday afternoon tea and the night dance.

(Continued on Page 6)

Music—A.M. Cunningham, F. A. Tucker; Science—D. F. Herring, S. F. Marsh, W. S. Ritchie, W. B. Wartman; Mathematics—O. F. Johnson, D. M. Stewart; English—M. W. Taylor; Sociology—L. J. Mortiss.

SUN GLASSES SUN SHADES TOILETRIES
SOUTHERN 5 & 10c STORE
Prompt and Cheerful Service

EIGHT MEN ARE BID TO DRAMATICS FRATERNITY

The Zeta Kappa cast, local chapter of Alpha Psi Omega, national dramatics fraternity, has sent bids to the following members of the Red and Black Masquers who have done outstanding work in the Masquer’s plays: Bob Lindsay of Winston-Salem; Earl Clark, Hamlet; Wade Barrow, Denver, Col.; Bill Frieze, Concord; Fitz Dade, Henderson, Ky.; Harman Woodward, Bluefield, W. Va.; Tyler Port, Winston-Salem; and William MacIlwinen, Fayetteville. Some of these men have made themselves eligible by their work on the stage end of the productions. One must be a member of the Masquers to be bidded to Alpha Psi Omega.

STUDENT SUPPORT IS EXPECTED IN STRIKE
April 22 Is Date Set For Annual Strike, Announces Joseph Lash

New York — (ACP)— Students in high schools and colleges throughout the country will be called from their classrooms on April 22 to participate in the third annual student strike against war. It has been announced by Joseph P. Lash, executive secretary of the American Student Union. Citing the recent passage of the largest peacetime military budget in American history, including extensive appropriations for the R.O.T.C., Lash predicted that at least 350,000 students would answer the strike call at 11 A.M. on that day. The date of the walkout has been set for later than in previous years because of Easter vacations which would conflict in some areas with the strike, Lash said. “In the light of the onrush of jingo propaganda in Washington, the need for a student stand for peace is still more imperative than ever before. We hope that students will not be forced to face reprisals and violence which have greeted their declarations for peace in the past.”

St. Petersburg J.C. Men Marked Superior

St. Petersburg, Fla—(ACP)—Although male students are markedly superior to co-eds in knowledge of the world's affairs gained through newspaper reading, they still favor the sports section and the comic strips, to judge from results of a test given at St. Petersburg Junior College. With a score of 70 set as “good,” those taking the test averaged 41.5. The president of the International Relations Club, in his test, named Hamilton Fish, Jr. and Robert M. La Follette as the diplomats who proposed the Anglo-French plan for settling the Italo-Ethiopian dispute.

Madison, Wis.—(ACP)—The sell-yourself system, brought to its peak by Max Baer when he sold some 200 percent of himself to various managers under the belief that “percents were like pieces of pie” has been successfully used by Rudolph depart, University of Wisconsin football player and sculptor, to finance a trip abroad.

Davidson Theatre
WEDNESDAY-THURSDAY, APRIL 22-23
DESIRE
Starring Marlene Dietrich and Gary Cooper

FRIDAY-SATURDAY, APRIL 24-25
CAPTAIN JANUARY
With Shirley Temple, Slim Summerville and Guy Kibbee

MONDAY, APRIL 27
LOVE BEFORE BREAKFAST
With Carol Lombard, Preston Foster in a Charming Team

TUESDAY, APRIL 28
REMEMBER LAST NIGHT
With Sally Eilers, Constance Cummings and Robert Young

Dr. Gwynn Lectures To Winthrop Student Body
Addresses Delivered Saturday Afternoon, Night and Sunday Morning

RELIGION IS SUBJECT
Protestantism and Christianity Are Discussed

Dr. P. H. Gwynn delivered a series of addresses to the student body of Winthrop College over the weekend. His first address was on Saturday afternoon, and his second on Saturday night. Sunday morning he spoke to the leaders of the Y.W.C.A. at Winthrop. In his address on “The History and Meaning of Protestantism,” Dr. Gwynn traced the genesis of Protestantism from the Protestant Reformation of the twelfth century, which resulted in a complete and final division of Christian forces. This revolt took the form of protest against certain admitted evils in the Church of Rome, and its central issue was the seat of authority in religion. The reformed religion became a Biblical religion, and the Bible, hitherto reserved for scholars and theologians, was translated into the vernacular and made available to the common people. Dr. Gwynn then discussed the major points on which Catholics and Protestants diverge, showing that the Catholic ideal is the suppression of personality, while the Protestant ideal is the realization of personality. The two groups differ in regard to the ideal of the Christian life, the nature and authority of the Christian ministry, the relation of the church to other social institutions, and the relation of the different branches of the church to one another. Protestantism has resulted in the expression of the democratic spirit in religion, in individualism and democracy. Also, the Bible becoming the center of authority has forced the Protestant church to become a religion of education and enlightenment. Protestantism has been the great bulwark of civil and religious liberty. In regard to the future of Protestantism, it is true that Protestantism lacks a core of central authority, which tends to dissipate its power as a force in social affairs, but we need to remember that the only unity worth having is that which is won through freedom. The desired end is to move in the direction of cooperation without sacrifice of vital convictions.

In his address on “The Essentials of Christian Living,” Dr. Gwynn stated that “Christianity is the religion of a person, which makes it a vital gross experience.” The (Continued on Page 6)