c wv THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 6, 1936

The Davidsonian
Founded By the Class of 1915
1935 Member 1936
Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents, per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate year.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879.

ARTICLES FOR PUBLICATION must be in the hands of Managing Editors by 4:00 o’clock p.m., Monday. Letters to the Editor
are welcome, but all communications intended for publication must be signed.

JIM MORTON .................. Editor
R. H. ROBINSON .......... Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
Owen Cooke .......... Managing Editor
Sam Cochran .......... Managing Editor
Eugene Fant .......... Managing Editor
Hector McGeachy .......... Managing Editor
Dick Vowles .......... Managing Editor
Yates Faison .......... Sports Editor
Harry Kuykendall .......... Associate Editor
Howard Overton .......... Associate Editor
Harold Sugg .......... Associate Editor
Raymond Turner .......... Associate Editor
John Winn .......... Associate Editor

WEDNESDAY, MAY 6, 1936

Honor thy father and thy mother; that thy days may be long upon the land which the Lord thy God
giveth thee. Ex. 20:12.

We extend our sincerest sympathy to Bill White in the recent loss of his father.

Paragraphics...

Each year, the second Sunday in May is set aside as Mother's Day. We show our appreciation, the attention and
respect we owe our Mothers on that day, especially. Every day should be set aside for good deeds to our
parents, but this one in particular. Why not send her a box of candy, a letter would be most appreciated,
or a brief telegram? You can usually find carnations to wear on this day. A white one if she has
passed away; colored carnation if she is still living. Just a visible manifestation of what we feel.

Have you ever thought how nice it would be to have squirrels on our campus? We have the trees, and
the open spaces.

“One, two, three, four, WOLF, six, UMM, eight, nine, WOLF-WOLF” etc. — just another college fad. Sounds like a Russian
football team calling signals when a group of students get really warmed up.

Help the Aged

Davidson may not be a Rome, but she still has her ruins. We refer to the time-scarred structures, which, as
part of the old quadrangle, grace our front campus. The venerable literary society halls, so easily visible to the casual
passerby, so richly steeped in college traditions, are fast reaching a stage of hopeless desuetude. Blinds are unpainted and hang
at precarious angles; inside, ivy creeps through leaky roof and fallen plaster, the stairways with broken bannisters totter uncertainly to
their landings. “Mellow charm,” no doubt, but the general effect is one of careless neglect.

Many people whose only impression of the college is gained from the highway may accept these buildings as typical, for
what else can they see? Each year a large sum is expended on the upkeep of grounds and the main
buildings, this neglect of our “firsts” reminds one of the man who carefully bathed and donned an expensively tailored suit
while neglecting to shave or wash his face! Surely age deserves more respect! For reasons of historic association alone they
should be preserved. Did not a President of the United States receive his early forensic experience in one of them?
Have they not for nearly a century provided a training ground for leaders in all walks of life? Yet the
societies themselves in their present struggle for existence have not funds to care for even the interior of these buildings!
On whom does this responsibility fall?

DAVIDSON

Campus Comments

OFF THE

Dear Editor:

The idea of having this letter each week has already been commended in previous comments, but I would like to
add my sanction. It not only gives to the interested students a means of expressing their opinions to the readers
of “The Davidsonian,” but it is an idea that lends a note of freshness to the paper from week to
week.

In thinking over what to write I found considerable difficulty salvaging anything that had not already been quite thoroughly commented
upon. Nevertheless, there is one subject about which very little has been said. Perhaps that is because nobody is sufficiently
interested in it to feel that it is worthwhile discussing, or maybe it isn't even a subject. Whatever you care
to call it, I am going to just suggest a few thoughts with regard to privileges for Davidson men after
they have gotten past the sophomore year.

We are all anxious to get back to Davidson for that second year when there will be no more wearing
of freshmen caps, no more carrying of laundries, if we care to do so we can walk across the grass
on the front of the campus, we don't have to bother about putting up and taking down bleachers, and we
can order the freshmen around as upperclassmen had done us during the previous session. That, in the eyes of most
Davidson men is a privilege, but the sweet taste that it carried when we first became Sophomores soon wears off
and the spice of Davidson life is practically exhausted.

What other privileges can be acquired even by the valedictorian of the Senior Class? There are, of course, certain leniencies
given to Seniors, in the matter of class cuts, but aside from that you can point to nothing other than
his nearness to a diploma that a Senior has to claim as a privilege that every other member of the
student body doesn't have. By the time a man has gotten to his fourth year in college, and problems and
difficulties of the world are just around the corner it is “high time” he be given some freedom and be
let know by those older and more sagacious that he is, in their opinion, capable of making his own decisions.
That he knows what to do and when to do it, that he knows what he believes and why he
believes it, that he is a man and they are confident he will conduct himself as such. Davidson doesn’t do
that at present. Just how it could be done, I readily admit, I don't fully know, but I can point
out one respect in which I thoroughly believe a first step could be taken. That is in the matter of
church attendance. No one believes more thoroughly in the value of Sabbath day worship than I, but at the same
time no one is more resentful to having religion crammed down his throat. Why shouldn't a Senior in college be
allowed to attend church according to the guidance of his own conscience? Why shouldn't he be allowed to attend at
any place he pleases? Under the present system there is an incentive for a man away from Davidson on Sunday
not to go to church, because he gets no credit on the dean's books for having gone. And by having
so many cuts during a semester we are encouraged to cut a certain number of times because we are afraid
we will reach the end of the term with some cuts still unused.

Should a College Senior think of church attendance from this point or should it be a deeper thing to him?
Should he be allowed to forget the shallow fact of being present at worship to avoid probation or restriction by
the administration or would it be more nearly Christian and more helpful to the individual to make him feel that
he must go to the service or take an absence, for which he will be punished by the dean? This
is one means by which independence could be gained for the Seniors, and one that, I believe, would be a
beneficial step.

Sincerely,
LAMONT BROWN.

P. S.—I have asked Henry Cathey, retiring president of the Athletic Association, to write the letter for this space next
week.

Columbia has received a $13,000 Rockefeller Foundation grant for the study of infantile paralysis.

The University of Pennsylvania had a “fault-finding day” recently. Everyone aired his pet gripes, but knockers claimed nothing was done
about any of them.

Three University of Georgia students called King Edward VIII the other day to tell him about an athletic contest. His
Majesty wasn’t at home, and the bill was $75.

Northwestern University, pioneer in traffic control, now has a graduate course in that subject.

Pricked Soap Bubbles Of Walker's Petty Pipings

Through four of the five vocational guidance lectures—a very successful project of the Y. M. C. A.—ran a strong tone
of complaint against college education, its method and curriculum. And at times the current of discontent swelled and broke into
a direct splash of protest. As when one said “an A student feeds back what the professor thinks while the
B student thinks,” and when another lamented that the excited cramming of rules and facts did not train the mind
in the thinking necessary for a particular profession. The general complaint seemed to rest on the conception of the mind
as an instrument that gathers, applies and influences, rather than a gigantic hornets’ nest into which one frantically pigeonholes intellectual
larvae.

In This Do We Comfort

Lest, however, we become perturbed over the phlegmatic state of education and the disordered state of Ethiopia, let us thank
The Davidsonian, for its reassuring paragraph of last week concerning the suspicious Y. M. C. A. cabinet houseparty:

“The group has been accorded the use of the Boggs and Walker cottages, and the ladies will be housed in
one, the gentlemen in the other.”

Whereupon, we heave a sigh of relief for we feared the worst, having heard of “sinners mired in the Boggs
of iniquity.” And then, too, we fancied Zeno John Walker the Stoic engrossed in revels Bacchanalian. Thus reassured, the Dean
and the columnist need not spend sleepless hours in fearful anxiety. Perhaps the approaching houseparty explains the bucolic piece of
headwear with which our popular Y. M. C. A. secretary is despoiling the shaded beauty of the campus.

A Glimpse Into the Future

A number of the advance guard journeyed forth and returned reporting Morganton notMowing with milk and Toney - but with
many rare tales evolving therefrom. Tyler Port renewed old feminine schizophrenia acquaintance, as did George Norilect. Co-eds Mary Withers, Miriam
Goodrum, and Margaret Douglas gazed with astonishment at a case of nantisne, exceedingly rare with the female of the species.
Clark’s display of brotherly love we may expect the SAK’s to pledge at least one next year, completing their menagerie,
headed this year by Hindu unsuccessful-this-week Brown. And there was a case or so of megalomania, suffering from delusions of
self-grandeur, like Sky Cline and Billy Morton who go with May Queens. Ken Fryioogle was enough to set one inmate
on a laughing spell and Tiger Jim Morton (“All that I am, I owe to my roommate!”) lost several checker
games.

The Yowl By Any Other Name Would Still Smell Awful

The Yowl, the object of affliction for some while, hobbles its last mile with the next issue and after a
summer's hibernation will appear as a different being. Its present nomenclature banned as being too flippant, the whole thing may
undergo a severe surgical operation until it becomes a mere whine of its former self. Our suggestion to Editor Hal
Overton for a new trademark is: The Abridged Compilation and Cyclopedia of Singularly Droll Outcries of Davidson College. We submit
to The Yowl a dirge, but for the column this mere elegiac sonnet: “Howl, Howl, Howl, Dead is The Yowl,
O, Hal!”

Pepper and Salt

Now that May Pole festivities are frequent we don’t expect to find John Latimer on the campus much. Nor Schnozz
Hill nor Max Brittain. Honey Hunter enters the Sea-Food industry. Where is Twirps Willis’ “Y” Card? Perhaps it was Watson
Street's famous queenly dimples that made him so successful at Camp Nawakwa last week. Schnozz Club Prospect: Bill Douglas, an
innocently startling protrusion. Ed Armfield to Sweetbriar goeth via. Sam Cothran was a lucky one who took Bold Venture. Tom
Moonburnt Marchant. And that’s enough for this week.

Inclined but he admired physical prowess. Not only did he enjoy sports but he studied them keenly. His analytical mind
anticipated plays on the gridiron and he easily picked flaws in plays and could detect faults in players. He was
never robust physically, yet he developed his body to perfect health. His habits were manly and clean. His walk was
sure and confident. His smile was genuine and sincere. His words rang clear and true. A Christian who lived the
principles of Christ. His guidebook was his Bible. His daily meditation was with his King. His everyday life was as
if that day were to be his last. He had no fear because the teachings of the Teacher of Galilee
had since his early youth ruled his life. No person was too low or too poor to hear his encouraging
word. His possession of more worldly goods than the average man never caused him to show his good fortune. He
was generous and kind. To my mind, no more fitting tribute can be paid this man than one which, at
the same time, honors his college. He was a true son of Davidson. As one of those who felt the
touch of his friendship, I am proud to be able to have called him my friend.

THREE SENIORS (Continued from Page 1)

where he was congratulated by the president, and presented a ribbon symbolical of his being pledged to the organization. Dan
Griffin responded to the first tap by going to the seat of J. H. Goslen, of Winston-Salem, whom he tapped.
Goslen was manager of the 1935 football team, he is a member of the “D” Club and is affiliated with
the Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity. The next tap sent Treadway Purnell to the seat of Billy Merchant of Blowing
Rock, who followed his announcer to the rostrum. Merchant is captain of the track team, secretary and treasurer of the
senior class, president of Sigma Delta Pi, honorary Spanish fraternity, and vice-president of the Sigma Alpha Epsilon, social organization. John
Partridge of Atlanta, Ga., was next tapped by W. C. Branton. Partridge served on the student council for several years.
He has been a member of the varsity baseball squad for three seasons, and is also quite active in intramural
sports. He has represented the Phi Delta Theta social fraternity on the Pan-Hellenic council during the past year. The president
signaled a fourth time and Harvey Glass left the platform to issue a bid to Wade Boggs of Shreveport, La.,
newly elected president of the celebrated Centennial class. In addition to this outstanding office, Boggs is an active man in
forensic circles. He has been on the debating team for two years. During the past year he was in charge
of deputation work for that organization. He was a member of the student council in 1935-36, and by virtue of
his class presidency will again sit with that body in the ensuing session. His social fraternity affiliation is Kappa Sigma.
Martin Barnett went into the audience at the fifth tap and proceeded to notify Carl Carlson of Greensboro of his
election into the society. Carlson was president of the Centennial class during his sophomore year, and is one of the
retiring vice-presidents of the student body. He played football during his freshman year and is now a member of the
varsity tennis team. He is also a member of the Kappa Sigma fraternity. Following the routine method, Paul Harlan went
into the junior section of the students and slapped Tom Corbin, of Fremont. Corbin is also a retiring vice-president of
the student body. He is the newly elected president of the Athletic Association, a member of the varsity football team,
and a member of the Pi Kappa Phi social society. The seventh bid was issued to Walter Dickson of Anderson,
S. C. by Cole Windham. Dickson was recently installed as president of the Y. M. C. A., rising from the
vice-presidency of that organization, a position which he capably filled for the 1935-36 term. He is a dash man on
the varsity track team, a member of the student council and holds social membership with Pi Kappa Alpha. Wilbur Edwards,
new president of the student government, and a native of Charlotte, was the eighth man pledged, and Sid Marsh was
his informer. Edwards has, in addition to the above-mentioned office, prominent positions in forensic societies. He has served on the
student council during the expiring session, and will next year head that organization as president of the student body. He
is a member of Beta Theta Pi social fraternity. The ninth pledge ushered to the platform was Jim Morton of
Bullock, who was tapped, after the sound of the gavel, by Lamont Brown. Morton is Editor in Chief of The
Davidsonian, a member of the student council, a member of the publications board, and was, during the past year, a
managing editor of The Davidsonian. He is the newly elected president of his social fraternity, Sigma Phi Epsilon. President Chapman,
after tapping the gavel, went himself into the audience and issued a bid to Dr. G. R. Vowles, professor of
German in the Davidson faculty, and among other things head of the committee on Rhodes Scholarships. Many of Dr. Vowles’
writings have been accepted by large literary magazines, particularly in the field of language study. Recently he has had quite
a number of articles published by outstanding periodicals in the United States. The ceremony was concluded by the singing of
“O Davidson.”

MODERN TIMES...

When attempting to sell a young married lady a house, the real estate salesman received the following set-back: “A home?
Why do I need a home? I was born in a hospital, educated in college, courted in an automobile, and
married in church; I live out of the delicatessen and in paper bags; I spend my evenings at the movies;
when I die I am going to be buried at the undertakers’. All I need is a garage."—The Tiger.

STARDUST

Twinkle, twinkle little star, I don't care just what you are; But I must know just what you be To
pass ole Pop’s astronomy, —Wake Forest Student.

The University of Detroit plans to dedicate a campus tree to the memory of Joyce Kilmer, war-time poet. Delta Kappa
Epsilon fraternity will receive the bulk of the estate of James Anderson Hawes, deceased New York lawyer.

March winds caused an unusual run on the Ohio State infirmary, 2,927 students appearing for treatment.

The halls of the literary halls resounded with the glory which had come to Davidson men as a result of
their continuous victories over opposing colleges in the forum. Davidson had won and was maintaining a prestige along literary lines
that was at once the object of admiration and envy of other southern colleges. In spite of the fact that
the forensic council is today arranging debates with the leading universities and colleges of the country, there is a lagging
interest on the part of the student body. At the 11th semi-annual convention of the North Carolina Collegiate Press Association,
The Technician, weekly paper of North Carolina State College, was chosen the best college newspaper in North Carolina. The Davidsonian
was awarded second place among the twelve collegiate newspapers represented at the meet.

LETTER TO THE EDITOR

Even as Periander said (plagiarizing from Socrates) “Leisure is a fine thing;” or, as Carlyle, wishing to be original, said,
“Work, my son, even so do I, being one man, express two ideas. The first is as destructive as an
Ethiopian warrior who flees rioting in its criticism. The second as constructive in content as possibly one of the most
constructive things in the world is constructive.” The first idea is this, namely, abolish Sugg the columnist. Hear this fable,
which is to the point. “Once there was an obscene jackal who was accustomed to yap continually at a lion.
One day the lion arose from his supreme indifference, yawned, and glowered threateningly at the jackal. Straightway the jackal fled
and spoke to his kinsmen, saying: ‘I have caused the lion untold discomfort. Yea, even have I put him to
flight...” Even so the metaphysicians sometimes move against the petty news-gatherer. Lest the columnist rejoice that he has at last
stirred one of the said metaphysicians, let him remember that it is the same kind of contemptuous disinterestedness shown by
the lion. As Sambonowitch, the burly and a man of no mean ability was accustomed to say: “Do not, my
friend, tolerate jackals.” Now for the first constructive idea. My comrades, strive to learn more about sculpture, especially sculpture in
the wood; for in so doing you will learn many things. I, myself, will be glad—though with a good deal
of hesitation, perhaps—to teach such a class for a nominal fee. (Signed) J. ESCOMILLIO WALKER.

SCABBARD AND BLADE (Continued from Page 1)

has made an enviable record among the honorary fraternities on the Hill by its achievements. At the opening of school,
it resolved to really do something and as a result set before itself a list of objectives for the coming
year. A beautiful American flag now flies from a flagpole which ever since its erection by the Class of 1917
when the class left it as the class gift to the school has remained unused. This was one of the
projects undertaken by the fraternity. In an attempt to secure greater proficiency and interest in the work of the corps
on the drill field, the fraternity has announced that it will present at the end of the term a cup
to the best-drilled individual, platoon, and company.

Dr. Aldo Castellani, of the Royal Italian Medical Corps, is on the Louisiana State medical faculty, but duties in Ethiopia
have kept him from lecturing this semester.
