Page Two

The Davidsonian

Founded By the Class of 1915, 1936

Member 1937 Associated Collegiate Press
Distributors of Collegiate Digest

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON Ave. New York, N.Y.
CHICAGO - BOSTON - SAN FRANCISCO
LOS ANGELES - PORTLAND - SEATTLE

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879.

JIM MORTON ........................................ Editor
R. H. ROBINSON ................................ Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
Owen Cooke ................................ Managing Editor
Sam Cothran ................................ Managing Editor
Kuelul Fant ................................ Managing Editor
Hector McGeachy ........................ Managing Editor
Dick Vowles ................................ Managing Editor
Yates Faison ................................ Sports Editor
Harry Kuykendall ........................ Associate Editor
Howell Overton .......................... Associate Editor
Harold Sugg ................................ Associate Editor
Daymond Turner ........................ Associate Editor
John Wan .................................. Associate Editor
Sam Ryburty .............................. Art Editor
Fitz Dade .................................. Copy Reader
Wilson Lowrance ........................ Circulation Manager
Ralph Chandler .......................... Circulation Manager
Charles Moore .......................... Collection Manager
M. Ruth .................................... Advertising Manager
Toy Head .................................. Asst. Business Manager

“Allegiance to a party should never lead one consciously to countenance wrong or injury to the public weal” — William Howard Taft.

ROOSEVELT vs. LANDON ... The Davidsonian sincerely appreciates the co-operation of the students and faculty members in the recent canvass of the coming presidential election. A greater percent of returns were recorded in this balloting than has been registered in previous elections.

Because of the interest shown by the students in the coming election on November 4, The Davidsonian is sponsoring two addresses by prominent political leaders in the Democratic and Republican parties today. These addresses will be held in Shearer Hall on October 27 (Democratic) and October 30 (Republican). These speakers will present the issues involved in their national party platform. Harold Sugg (Democrat) and Tyler Port (Republican) will conduct the campaign of their respective parties. The returns from the straw vote on the coming president will be held over until the next issue of this publication because of the political speeches that will be held next week.

PLACEMENT BUREAU... Fred Smith, alumni secretary, has made a decided step in helping students secure jobs when they finish Davidson by the establishment of a much-needed Placement Bureau. Formerly, several of the professors offered considerable assistance along this line and they can continue to aid the graduating Davidson student in assisting the Alumni Secretary.

PHI BETA KAPPA... Our hearty congratulations to those who have just received bids to Phi Beta Kappa. To win membership in this, the parent of all American college fraternities, is indeed an honor. These men are signally honored in that they come from a class whose scholastic average is unusually high. Not in several years has there been so much competition for a place in the upper tenth. Nice going, fellows!

BAND INCOGNITO... Those Davidson supporters who listened to the broadcast of the Duke-Tech game Saturday were both interested and amused to hear on two separate occasions that they were listening to the Davidson band. Corrections were made each time, however. The announcer seems to have had the Davidson band on his mind.

HAZING... Section 6, Article V, says: No student shall be guilty of engaging in any form of hazing whatsoever. Webster’s Collegiate Dictionary defines HAZING as “a harassment by abusive or ridiculous treatment.” This explanation is to correct the prevailing idea that hazing consists in applying the paddle to Freshmen, and other means of physical torture. From Webster’s definition, hazing consists equally in treating an individual in a ridiculous manner.

QUOTATIONS... Quotations are generally chosen from sayings of great men but occasionally they are selected because of their own merit from everyday talk. “Because you think a man is a jackass is one good reason why you shouldn’t talk behind his back,” is an excellent example.

Welcome N.C.C.P.A... This week Davidson is again host to the North Carolina Collegiate Press Association. In spite of its alphabetical title, this group antedates Roosevelt by more than a decade. The first time it convened on this campus was, if we remember rightly, in the fall of ‘21. From the first, the Association has striven to serve the best interests of the collegiate publications of this state. It has staunchly supported against inroads of faculty censorship the almost mythical “freedom” of the undergraduate press, trying at the same time to make its members better as publications and more truly an expression of student body opinion on their respective campuses. As a charter member of N.C.C.P.A., we are happy to felicitate her on her progress and to welcome her chosen representatives to this campus.

Bright Lights... Again we wish to call attention to the extremely poor stage lighting in Chambers auditorium. The floodlighting and footlights may suffice for dramatic productions, but when the platform is used as a speaker's rostrum the results are satisfactory neither to the speaker nor his audience. When Carl Sandburg was here a week ago the almost universal comment of the large audience was the wish that they had a better opportunity to observe his face, to see what he looked like. There wasn’t enough light. “We couldn’t see that there was more than enough, but it was poorly applied.” And anyone who has tried to speak from that stage can appreciate the difficulty the distinguished guest must have encountered in referring to his notes. We do not suggest extensive or costly alterations in the system, but a pair of indirect fixtures and a lamp for the speaker's desk would correct this minor irritant—less current, better employed. It would also contribute to the enjoyment of most lectures and most musical concerts if lights were turned off in the main auditorium during the performance. Those who come late can find their programs afterwards.

An alarming shortage of room and board jobs may cause 200 students of the University of Wisconsin to withdraw from school. Forty-one states and 17 countries are represented among the students of Louisiana State University.

Campus Comments

After a week of inactivity the football team is ready to get under way again. The remaining five games present a hard “last half schedule,” but with every man working hard and making up his mind to win I sincerely believe we can win all of them. The squad is ready to shoot the works in order to win, but we need the full support of the student body. This means more than coming to games and pep meetings and cheering; what I mean is being quiet the night before the Carolina game. The night before the V.M.I. game several members of the team were awakened about the middle of the night by yelling and general noise. The boys who did this did not think beforehand. Sleep is a very essential part of the training routine, and having it broken into takes a lot out of the man who is trying to rest. Within a few weeks Homecoming will be here and naturally calls for a good time. The boys on the team really want to win that game. So before you decide to let out a yell or tramp down the hall, remember the player who is trying to get the necessary rest for the game. In this way you can render us a little physical support; and save some of that excess energy for the game. Nobody can make you be quiet if you don’t want to but please “co-operate” in this way. I realize that the majority are considerate when coming in the night before the game so this is not directed at them.

Sincerely,
DICK JOHNSON, Capt. Football Team.

P.S.: I request Gene Vogler, Varsity Cheer Leader, to write Campus Comments for the next issue of The Davidsonian.

“The less a man knows the easier it is to convince him that he knows it all,” and “When you argue with a fool be sure he isn’t similarly occupied,” can be followed as standard advice. “A little opportunity is a BIG chance to do your best,” is another anonymous saying chosen on its own merit.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

CAMPUS CAMERA

BUCKSHOT

MICHIGAN'S TOUCHDOWNS FROM 1901 TO 1905!

"SKIVY" DAVIS, OKLAHOMA UNIVERSITY, KICKED 23 GOALS AFTER TOUCHDOWNS IN ONE GAME, SEPT. 29, 1917.

WRONG DIRECTION CIRCLED THE GOAL POSTS, AND RAN BACK AGAIN THE LENGTH OF THE CAMPUS.

We shall never say anything intentionally cruel or unkind about anyone or anything, so take all this in the spirit it is intended. Honi soit qui mal y pense, or as the old Persian proverb would say, “you've buttered your bread, now lie in it.”

Personal Item: Ed Armfield, Geo. Matthis, Tom Corbin, Pete Marchant, Yentz Johnston, Dick Johnson, Heman Clark, Bailey Williams, Fred Dennis, Chubby King, Yates Faison, Perry Sloan, Jack Branch, Carl Carlson and others attended the Duke-Tech game, most of them going over for the State-Furman game that night and the carnival. Corbin almost fell in love with a pretty girl, figuratively speaking, but even Groucho draws the color line? Mac Covington and T. P. Porter dined with the Duchess of Yorke. Lib Gammon and Mary McBrayer at Vespers. Kernel Phant is still puzzled. No one has guessed yet although my stooges report that it is getting warm, some of them having been awarded the flattering distinction.

Tip—I practically room alone.

The Phi Gams threw a hop in Charlotte and, Handsome Hal Overton squired Bunky McLendon, the McClelland Barclay model. Greensboro and Charlotte well represented. Who went to the beauty contest in Cornelius? We're asking you.

Chef—We hate to resurrect the long-dead Little Audrey; but one day her mother came into the kitchen and found Little Audrey cutting off her little brother's toes and dropping them into the frying pan. And her mother just laughed and laughed for all the time she knew that Little Audrey couldn't cook!

“Gee, Kid”—Mae West rolled into a theatre dripping with more diamonds than clothes. “Goodness, what lovely diamonds!” exclaimed the hat-check girl. “Goodness had nothin’ t' do with it dearie,” retorted the actress.

Poeme—Answer this without thinking twice: Can a man marry his widow's sister?

"Bartender" Cooper and Bob Tissue have been kicked out of better places than the Charlotte Little Pep.

—0O—

Onomatopoetic Name — Rufus Plonk.

Look Alikes — The Ganier twins, Act I and Act II; Safty Peters and Philbert.

Nominations for Oblivion — Robert (Bobby) Taylor, Richard (Dicky) Powell, and Cesar (Sissy) Roniero of the Moom Pitchers.

Pet Peeve: Assigned seats for Seniors at Vespers. Are we men or are we church mice?

Potent Point: "Slightly Soiled, Greatly Reduced."

—0—

There is an unusually interesting exhibit in the library about Peter Stuart Ney, née Michel Ney, Marshal of France under Napoleon. Did you know that he designed the Davidson seal? It would be most appropriate for this Centennial year to bring to Davidson more tradition and greater historical significance.

—o—

We want a big-name band for Mid-Winters. What about it Pan-Hell? Looks like a big Homecoming so you guys better get your dates lined up.

—0—

Dick Howie and Bill McLean think the grass grows greener on the other side of the track.

The davenport held twain
Fair damsel and her ardent swain,
He and she.
But then a step upon the stair
Her father saw them sitting there,
He and she.
—Hornet.

* * *

Freshwomen — The following rat rules do not obtain at Agnes Scott:
(1) Each freshman must cut bangs to the bridge of her nose.
(2) Each freshman must wear no make-up on one side.
(3) All freshmen must wear clothes wrong side out with no belts.
(4) Each freshman must carry a type and is going to lose that wager.

* * *

According to the Ads — Love is like an onion; you taste it with delight, but in a while you wonder whatever made you bite.

* * *

Signs of the Times — Culled from a restaurant wall: "If the steak is too tough for you, get out. This is no place for weaklings." ... "We're different; we use pork instead of veal in our chicken salad." ... "She's not my best girl, just necks best."

* * *

Lab Course — A student at Hobart this fall enrolled for a course in criminology. The next morning he was arrested for giving the registrar a bad check, for cashing two other hot checks, and looting a fraternity house.

The registrar at the University of Oklahoma proved statistically that students with the thinnest wallets get the most "A's" when two state legislators complained that the $3 "flunking fee" is a hardship on poor students.

Fifty University of Toledo women have signed up to play hockey. The season will end on November 24, when the two best intramural teams will meet in the "Army-Navy" game.

The Davidson man is going political-minded with a big political rally Tuesday and Wednesday of next week. Edna Mae Port and Socrates Suggs will do the mud-slinging. Judge Mushmouth Johnston is going soft on us. What about that water tank? Gotta go now so goodnight you gossip lovers.

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 21, 1936

Reel Dope

Wed. Oct. 21
SING BABY SING — Adolphe Menjou, the Ritz Brothers, Alice Faye, Ted Healy, Gregory Ratoff, and Patsy Kelly in as hilarious a farce as you will see. Adolphe is a famous actor on a spree. Lunacy and laughter.

Thurs-Fri, Oct. 22-23
ANTHONY ADVERSE — Powerful, compact, and magnificent in its simplicity is this picturization of Hervey Allen's monumental novel of a man's adventures and struggles for spiritual happiness. Frederick March as "Anthony." Olivia de Havilland as "Angela," the love of his life. Whole cast is flawless. A four-star picture.

Sat. Oct. 24
BIG BROADCAST — A fine mixture of Shirley Ross, Jack Benny, Burns and Allen, Bob Burns, Frank Forest, Benny Fields, and Benny Goodman's Orchestra. Plenty of humor, song, music, and dance.

Mon.-Tues. Oct. 26-27
LIBELED LADY — Imagine seeing four of your favorite screen stars in one grand picture. The story was so good that M.G.M. decided to make a real film holiday of it by giving it this all-star cast of Jean Harlow, William Powell, Myrna Loy, and Spencer Tracy. The result is a gay, sparkling, romantic, de luxe production in the best M.G.M. manner, and that means that it is tops in entertainment. Don’t miss this.

NUTSHELL

This has been a quiet weekend for most of us, with all our excitement coming over the radio on Saturday afternoon. The Duke-Tech game was a thriller from start to finish and surely deserved the large crowd it drew. And a lot of these B-C sports announcers probably had to take some of their own medicine when the Devils reversed their predictions.

Chuckle-jerker from the radio announcer at this clash: "We ought to stop now for station identification—but I'll be darned if we'll do it!"

—o—

Kernel has just learned that a dam was removed from the creek and lake drained away to make room for the two golf holes across the road from the rest of the course. Kernel suggests that the dam be put back and the lake restored. After all, those two holes really aren’t worth a dam.

OPEN LETTER OPEN FORUM

Please, Gentlemen of the class of 1940, don't pass us by on the street without a greeting. I realize that some of you have condescended upon Davidson College very lordly from prep schools and from the set apart-upper element of the more distinguished high schools, but in spite of your overshadowing importance and the fact that the college could not for a day get along without you, don’t you think you might spare an occasional friendly word to the lowly upper classmen? When I speak to members of the upper classes, even the seniors, and are snubbed for a reply, it hurts to the core; but when I hail a freshman with a "Gentlemen" or "good morning" and am given the glassy stare it makes us feel so low that the red bugs could call us "shorty." There is something on the card in your rooms about freshmen showing respect to upper classmen. The all-round best way to do this is to be genuinely friendly and courteous at all times.

Sincerely,
J. B.

Dear Editor:

We certainly enjoyed Dr. Sandburg’s lecture recently—those of us who were there. It is unfortunate that our special lectures always come on Monday night, as many persons who would otherwise be there are forced to stay away, to their own detriment. The staff of The Davidsonian, freshmen and all, number about fifty, and this group always finds it extremely difficult to coordinate a Monday night lecture and 11:30 deadline. Somehow, too, reviews seem to have a habit of falling on Tuesday. Presumably, this is an excellent day for reviews, the preceding weekend having afforded ample time for preparation. But when a review is to be held on the day following a lecture, as in the case of a number of classes on the Tuesday following Dr. Sandburg’s lecture, many find it impossible to attend the special lecture. For Monday night also are scheduled the meetings of Eta Sigma Phi and Delta Phi Alpha, on alternate weeks at the lecture hour. Wednesday night is often free, and the last two nights of the week: Thursday and Friday are always free. As Monday is the busiest could there not be an arrangement to take care of this?

R.A.T.

Activities of Associated Students of the University of California last year showed a net profit of $159,872.02.

Henry Ford the second, grandson of the automobile manufacturer, is now a freshman at Yale.

Courses in playing house, swinging, climbing, riding kiddie-kars, and block building are offered in the University of New Mexico’s emergency nursery class this fall.

Dear Nozy Broom:

Boy, how I hate you! Here I sit, week after week, trying to shell out all the news that’s fit to print, and, just as I'm getting the hang of it, along you come with that other kind of news and steal all my readers. Do you realize that you have cut my audience in half? That only leaves me one reader. And I'm getting pretty tired of reading it every week myself. What's more, if I ever find out who you are (not that I blame you for trying to keep it a secret), I’m going to print it in two places: (1) in this column on Wednesday, and (2) on your tombstone on Thursday.

Nastily yours,
KERNEL

P.S. — Pooey to you!

—o—

The Davidsonian carries a story which says that "Scripts and Pranks," echo of the "Yow!" will be out in a short time. Assuming that for once The Davidsonian is right, this is a serious matter, because, you know, there’s no way to keep from getting one. However, you've got fair warning, if you can think of a way to avoid it.

—o—

Said the voice on the other end of the phone: "Is this the editor of The Davidsonian? Well, this is Mr. Malone, Associated Press, in Charlotte— I'm coming through Davidson tomorrow, and I'd like to see you about accepting the job as representative in Davidson. Can you meet me at the S.P.E. house at about three o'clock? Fine. I'll see you then."

—o—

After sitting for forty-five minutes in the said fraternity house, our ambitious editor-in-chief reached two conclusions: (1) somebody had pulled his leg; (2) that phone ought never to have been put in The Davidsonian office.

—o—

The N.C.C.P.A. (not a project of the national administration; dope; Press Association) is convening in Charlotte this week, the guest of Davidson. In case you haven’t guessed it already, you Charlotte girls had better keep ’em at arm’s length. You know how these PRESS boys are. Watch your ribs!

—o—

Kernel notices that there are to be twelve guest bands on hand at the Citadel game. Well, that’s one way to fill the new grandstand. At the last game, two bands gave an imitation of a cannon shooting men out onto the field. With twelve bands, we ought to get a musical impression of the Spanish war. There are many who think the shooting ought to be the other way around. Others are deaf.

—o—

Bids have been extended by Phi Beta Kappa. Wonder how many of these bids will be declined? The Phi Bets have done very little rushing this year, so they'll be doing well if they pledge anybody. Pun: "Phi Beta hook, will I catch a fish?"