Duke Professor Closes College Lecture Series

Seven Men Have Spoken to Davidson Students During Academic Year

ELLWOOD SPEAKS LAST

Committee Believes Year Most Successful

With the address Monday evening by Professor Charles A. Ellwood of Duke University, the College lecture series for this academic year was terminated. Seven men have been brought to Davidson this year by the lecture committee; they are Mr. Alexander Sprunt, Prof. Walcott of Long Island University, Dr. Robertson, President of Goucher College, Prof. John Crowe Ransom of Vanderbilt University, Rev. Herbert Johnson of Winston-Salem, Prof. Barr of the University of Virginia, and Prof. Ellwood of Duke University.

The committee in charge of the lecture series, composed of Dr. Shewmake (chairman), Dr. C.K. Brown, and Professor Lilly, feels that it has been most successful this year in securing such a noteworthy group of speakers. Plans for next year have not as yet been formulated, but it is the objective of the committee to secure equally as distinctive a group of men. There is a possibility that Louis Untermeyer, the famous modern poet, will be secured for a lecture series. In order to secure a diversified group of speakers, the committee receives its suggestions from the Professors in those departments in which the lecturer is a specialist.

DR. ELLWOOD IS SPEAKER

(Continued from Page 1)

and that it might have been averted if either Great Britain or France had conceded some of their African colonies to Italy. Dr. Ellwood expressed his surprise to find Switzerland becoming militaristic in ideals. He said that Germany had changed greatly since the days of Imperialism and that the people had become very serious, grim, and sad. Hitler is a man of considerable force who apparently understands the German people and their problems. He stated that he was astonished to find the German people submitting to Hitler's dictatorial rule; but that Germany had been faced with having and accepting either Hitler's National Socialism or Communism.

He found Sweden to be a sort of haven from the radical movements rampant south of the Baltic where a “new deal” that lies between capitalism and communism has been developed. This movement they call “controlled capitalism,” and it consists of co-operative production and merchandising with the right given to the government to compete in any field of industry with private enterprises. He said that he had found Sweden to be the one European country enjoying real prosperity and possibly the only country in the world to have a balanced budget.

He summarized his lecture by saying that the maladies of Europe were principally in the attempt of each nation to isolate itself from the others with the resulting distrust and fear. Dr. Ellwood spoke to the student body at the chapel period on Tuesday morning, March 17, on “The Relation of Sociology to Religion,” and later addressed a group of students from Dr. Gwynn’s and Dr. Hood's classes on “The New Sociology.”

LEWIS ENTERS TENNIS

(Continued from Page 4)

Yearwood, 6-3, 6-2. In the other quarter-finals match Barnett pulled up from a trailing position to beat Frampton, 1-6, 7-5, 6-3. In challenge matches played Monday Bell defeated Frampton, Morrow defeated Hornbeck, and Hornbeck defeated Leonard Woodward, which, together with the results of the tournament thus far, make the team rankings about as follows: 1—Lewis, 2—Kenney, 3—Carlson, 4—Barnett, 5—Bell, 6—Frampton, 7—Morrow, 8—Hornbeck. This lineup will be subject to change frequently, as challenge matches are played throughout the season, but the first six will probably see action when the team opens its season against Wofford here Monday.

George Washington University hospital researchers have developed a new anesthetic for use during childbirth.

Trio Appears On Broadcast

The Davidson College Band and Quartette appeared on the radio program last Friday night, March 13. A special number by a trio consisting of a flute, bassoon, and clarinet was featured on the program. The program was opened by “O Davidson,” after which the band played “March Heroic,” by Holmes and “Creation Hymn,” by Beethoven. The trio then played “Burlesque on ‘O Du Lieber Augustine,’” by Briegel. This trio consisted of Don Pfohl, flute; J. J. Martin, clarinet, and Warren Babcock, bassoon. After the news of the campus, the quartette sang “Secrets,” by Smith, and “Mrs. Winslow’s Soothing Syrup,” by Harrington. The band then played “Iron Grip March,” by Ames. The brass choir then rendered “Deep River” which was written by Briegel. The quartette sang “Swing Along” and “Prayer Perfect,” by Cook and Stenson, respectively. As the concluding number on the program, the band played “Our Director March,” by Biglow. The quartette is composed of Paul Hudson, first tenor; J. D. Allen, second tenor; C. M. Ramseur, first bass; and Don Pfohl, second bass.

Faculty Club To Hear Talk

Engineer Will Speak at Quadranglers’ Meeting

The Quadranglers’ Club, an organization of the college faculty, will hold its monthly meeting on Thursday, March 19 instead of March 26. Mr. Frank E. Cothran, father of James and Sam Cothran, students in the college, will speak to the group. Mr. Cothran is a distinguished engineer now residing in Charlotte and connected with the Duke Power Company. He was born in Greenwood County, South Carolina, and attended Clemson College. During the Spanish-American War, he served as a sergeant in the First South Carolina Volunteer Infantry. Since that time he has worked in various parts of this country and Canada with railroad and land surveys. In 1901, he served with the U.S. Geological Survey. For several years he was in charge of the field surveys for the Quebec Development Company and was later elected vice-president of the same company. He is a member of the American Society of Civil Engineers, the Institute of Engineers of Canada, and the Corporation of Professional Engineers of Canada.

RIFLE TEAM

The R. O. T. C. Rifle Team is now participating in the William Randolph Hearst Trophy match, a competition between all classes of R. O. T. C. units in the United States. The competition consists of each of the five men firing five shots in the four positions, prone, sitting, kneeling, and standing. The team this season includes Captains Gordon Cleveland and Robert Theiting, Jack McClure, Walter Pharr, and A. C. Wartick.

N.C.C.P.A. TO MEET

Publications of Wake Forest will play host to the North Carolina Collegiate Press Association in Raleigh, April 16, 17, and 18. A large number of delegates are expected to be present to hear several prominent speakers that have been secured for the occasion. All Davidson publications are expected to be represented.

SCIENCE DEPARTMENTS WILL OFFER PICTURES

A five-reel show will be presented in the Chemistry lecture room Friday evening at seven o'clock, by the Chemistry and Physics Departments. Two of these sound pictures will be “The Electric Ship” and the “Conquest of the Cascades.” The other three reels are silent and entitled “Glass Magic.” This series is put out by Bausch and Lomb and is a sequence to a set shown here on November 15, entitled “Eyes of Science.”

WORLD UNITES IN BROADCAST

Nations to Exchange Programs Semi-Annually

Next fall the first of a series of the most far-reaching radio concerts ever arranged by world broadcasters will be heard from a New York stage. Countless millions of the greatest audience ever known will hear simultaneous entertainment as forty nations join in worldwide radio concerts. The American broadcasting systems have been invited to inaugurate the series on Sunday, September 20, of this year. Semi-annually thereafter the family of nations will exchange in rotation their concert artistry under the auspices of the International Broadcasting Union. Plans have been drawn and approved by delegates to the International Radio Conference in Paris for a program of characteristic American music thirty minutes in length. Due to the interest of foreign delegates, a part of the show is to be devoted to American Negro folk songs and spirituals. The second concert will originate from the Argentine Tango Congress in Buenos Aires sometime in February, 1937, and the third is to be heard from the Dutch East Indies or the Belgian Congo. Dutch delegates to the Paris conference suggested that the famous harvest festival at the palace of the Sultan of Djokja would be appropriate material for this broadcast. Each program of the elaborate series will come from different parts of the world to be relayed to all nations belonging to the Union. In this way, the music and culture of every section of the world will be presented.

AMONG THE GREEKS

BETA ETA PI—Among the visitors for the weekend were Billy Atwater and Latimer McClintock. Election of officers will be held at the meeting this coming Thursday.

PI KAPPA PHI—George Bethone of Raeford visited the chapter. Ralph Chandler spent the weekend at his home in Pinehurst.

KAPPA ALPHA—Brother Tom Downie left Saturday for Florida, where he will spend a week. Harvey McConnell and Gil Palmer attended the open house at Brenau. Pledges Lutz and Taylor spent the weekend in Oxford. Brothers George Dunlap, Furman Wallace, and Will Wallace, all of Presbyterian College, Clinton, S. C., were guests of Sigma chapter over the weekend and attended Junior Speaking.

PI KAPPA ALPHA—Brothers here for the weekend included Charles Hamrick, Charley Marris, Jim Hurst, and Blanton Little. Willie Moore went to Cramerton, and Sam Milton went to Albemarle for the weekend.

SIGMA ALPHA EPSILON—Brother Tucker had dinner with Epsilon chapter Saturday night. Reed Bahnson, Scott Shepherd, and some other brothers from the University of North Carolina came up for the weekend. Hoke Robinson attended the Founder's Day celebration of the chapter at Columbia. The usual Sunday night feed was held.

KAPPA SIGMA—Brothers Morrow and Pierce went to Gainesville, Georgia for the weekend. Fritz Viverly and Nina Pento visited the chapter. A feed was held Sunday night.

PHI GAMMA DELTA—Section chief, Brother G. P. Brothers of Ware Neck, Virginia, visited the chapter here on March 12. Brother Dorsett went to Pinehurst this past weekend. Cage Brewer of Clarksdale, Mississippi and Nesbitt Elmore of Montgomery, Alabama, were initiated into Delta Kappa chapter last Thursday night. Alumni John Siewers of Winston-Salem and Abbot Whitney of Greensboro were here for the weekend.

PHI DELTA THETA—Brother Dan Griffin went to Lynchburg this past weekend. Among the (Continued on Page 6)

Literary Societies Meet

Philanthropic Hears Talks on Foreign Lands

The last meeting of the Philanthropic Literary Society was held on Tuesday night, March 9. The main feature of the program consistedof two talks, one by Bill Bell, “Odd Customs of Korea,” and the other by Gordon Woodward, on the “Philippine Islands.” The most interesting part of the first speech was a description of the native funerals in which the mourners and pall-bearers carry the corpse in roundabout ways to the burial ground. They go up cross roads and around the block (if they can be called “blocks”) in spirits to the track and keep them from haunting the dead person. Woodward talked mainly about the religion and dress of the inhabitants of the Philippines. Each speaker held the floor for twenty minutes. After this, an open forum was held in which questions were asked and impromptu speeches made. At the next meeting, officers will be elected to serve until the end of the school year. The Society has (Continued on Page 4)

J. O. JONES, Inc.
HART-SCHAFFNER & MARX SUITS
STETSON FINE HATS
FRANK H. LEE SOFT HATS
MANHATTAN SHIRTS & PAJAMAS
HICKOK BELTS & GARTERS
University Clothes By the Famous Seinsheimer Co.
J.O. JONES, Inc.
210 S. Tryon St.

Two Eumenean Initiates Plan Meeting With Queens’

The Eumenean Literary Society heard John Mawhinney and Locke White make short talks at its meeting last week. The remainder of the program was taken up with the initiation of new members into the society. There were twenty neophytes inducted at the meeting. Through its president, the Eumenean Society has invited the Literary Society of Queens-Chicora College to visit them, and the girls are expected sometime this week, Tredway Purnell announced. The society is planning a feed in connection with the joint meeting, and it is also expected that the Queens group will provide a program for the meeting. Mawhinney gave the first talk of the evening on the subject "Eumenean In Days Gone By," and Locke (Continued on Page 6)

SOPHOMORES CONTINUE THEIR EDITORIAL DUTIES

In anticipation of the selection of next year’s managing editors for The Davidsonian, the following sophomores assumed managing duties in the editing of this issue:
First Page—Euc Fant and Sky Cline.
Third Page—Earnest Dooley.
Sports Page—Yates Faison.
Fifth Page—Jack Lafferty and Dick Vowles.
Sixth Page—Milton Crisp.
Assignments—Hector McGeachy.
All those sophomores who did not assume managing duties in this issue will do so next week.

DISCUSS “WAR QUESTION”

Dees Represents C! Club at Last District Meeting

On Wednesday night, March 11, the International Relations Club of Davidson College held its regular meeting in Shearer Hall, with President Tom Downie presiding. Joe Dees, who had just returned from the annual Southeastern States Conference of International Relations Clubs held recently at Winthrop College, made a report on the conference. In his report, he told of the discussion groups in which he took part. He also made comments about the outstanding speakers of the conference and what they said. Dees was the official representative of the local organization at the conference. Following his report, Professor F. A. Johnston, faculty adviser of the club, added a few facts about the value of the discussion groups at the meeting. In the absence of Dr. T. W. Lingle, who was supposed to have delivered the principal address of the program on “The Developments of Western Europe during the Last Few Days,” Professor Johnston outlined what had been going on in relation to Germany's occupying the Rhine district. When Professor Johnston had finished, he turned the meeting into a round table discussion about the facts relative to the subject of his talk. The members of the club asked questions concerning the recent events and gave their opinions on what effect the action of Germany would have in relation to another European war. After the close of the discussion, the meeting was adjourned.

PRIZE SNAP

Last week the Davidson students were agreeably surprised to see in the Collegiate Digest a picture of three students aiming a large slingshot that had been placed on the roof of Rumple Dormitory during one of the heavy snows of the winter. It all happened in this manner. Eliot Motley and Graham Squires, the latter with a camera, were walking past Rumple Dormitory, and Squires happened to notice the slingshot on the roof. Rounding up two other boys, he took a picture of Motley aiming the weapon, with the other boys holding it in place. The snapshot turned out so well that Squires sent it to the editors of the Collegiate Digest, with a description written by Harold Sugg.

Davidson Theatre

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 18TH
SONG AND DANCE MAN
With Paul Kelley, Claire Trevor, and Michael Whalen

THURSDAY & FRIDAY, MARCH 19-20
FOLLOW THE FLEET
Fred Astaire, Ginger Rogers, Harriet Hilliard, Randolph Scott

SATURDAY, MARCH 21ST
TOO MANY PARENTS
With an episode of “The Phantom Empire”

MONDAY & TUESDAY, MARCH 23-24
LOVE ON A BET
Starring Wendy Barrie and Gene Raymond

Dr. J. M. Richards Will Speak at Next Vespers

Son of Davidson Professor; Former Graduate, Campus Leader
WAS RHODES SCHOLAR
Now President of Columbia Theological Seminary

Dr. J. M. Richards, son of Dr. C. M. Richards of Davidson, and president of the Columbia Theological Seminary, will speak at the Vesper service next Sunday, March 22. Dr. Richards graduated from Davidson College in 1922, making an excellent record. From here he went to the Graduate School, Princeton University, where he received his M. A. degree; and then, as a Rhodes scholar, studied at Oxford University in England, where he received his B. A. and M. A. degrees. He next attended Columbia Theological Seminary, in Decatur, Georgia, and got his B. D. degree. He received his D. D. from Davidson in 1933. At Davidson, Dr. Richards was a member of the Mimer Honorary Society (what corresponded to the Phi Beta Kappa of today), and a member of Omicron Delta Kappa, leadership fraternity. He was also editor-in-chief of The Davidsonian, a member of the Y. M. C. A. cabinet, a member of the Student Council, on the football and basketball squads, a member of the Eumenean Literary Society, and of the Kappa Alpha social fraternity. Before becoming president of the Columbia Seminary, Dr. Richards had pastorates at Clarksville and Thomasville, Georgia.

F. E. GAEBELEIN LEADS (Continued from Page 1)

achieve from being the chosen of God, from their long line of religious leaders. When Christ came unto His own, His own received Him not. And since, although the Jews are willing to accept the great ethical teachings of Christ, they do not accept Him as Messiah, and He is to them a stumbling block. Second, to the Greeks, the Gentiles, the intelligentsia, the gospel is foolishness. The world has accepted the ethical teachings of Christ but has drawn the line on the cross. The cross had always been to the ancient world a badge of utmost shame and degradation. And today, to the modern intelligentsia, the cross itself is still inwardly abhorrent. G. B. Shaw, modern intellectual, centers his attack against Christianity on “Crosstianity.” Third, to the elect, Christ is the power and wisdom of God. William Lyon Phelps says that the Bible is dynamite, from the Greek word meaning power, and should bear the inscription, “Highly explosive. Handle with care.” The wisdom of God is the taking of God at His word. Hudson Taylor bases his belief in the Christ of the cross in the following three axioms: “There is a living God. He has spoken in His Word. He does mean what He says, and will keep His promises.” There are a great many moderns who, under an exterior of indifference, have hearts that yearn toward Christ. Ask yourself the vital question, Into which of these three classifications do I fall? Am I saved?

PRESENTS “Refreshment Time” IN THE HOME ON THE AIR

RAY NOBLE and His Orchestra with supporting cast of stars
WEDNESDAY NIGHT COLUMBIA NETWORK .... 9:30 P.M.
ICE-COLD COCA-COLA IS EVERY PLACE ELSE; IT BELONGS IN YOUR ICE-BOX AT HOME