THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 6, 1936

STUDENTS HOLD THIRD ANTI-WAR DEMONSTRATION
Five Hundred Thousand Students Leave Classes in “Dress Rehearsal”
GROUPS ARE ORDERLY
Biggest Walk-Out in New York; South Is Quiet

New York.—(ACP)—Five hundred thousand college and high-school students left their classrooms last Wednesday to participate in the third annual anti-war demonstration. The demonstration was a “dress-rehearsal,” American Student Union officials said, for the course to be followed in the event America declares another war.

Although no accurate figures were available, with the number demonstrating estimated as high as 750,000 by some observers, attendance was greatly in excess of the 350,000 predicted a few weeks ago by Joseph Lash, national secretary of the Student Union. The first strike, in 1934, brought out only 25,000 students. Last year it jumped to 175,000.

For the most part, the 1936 demonstrations were orderly, with little interference from opposition groups. Three storm centers developed: The University of Kansas, Lawrence College, Appleton, Wis., and Temple University, at Philadelphia. A tear-gas bomb was tossed into the midst of a group of 300 listening to a student speaker at Kansas, and a free-for-all followed. An attempt to break up the Temple meeting was made by a number of athletes, behind a barrage of rotten fruit and flour bags. There were no serious injuries, and the meeting continued. Police took a hand in the Lawrence College demonstration when students started to parade through Appleton streets, in defiance of police orders. Night-sticks were swung, and two demonstrators had to visit the infirmary for repairs.

The newly-organized Veterans of Future Wars and its subsidiary groups took an active part in the demonstrations, which were strongest and most numerous in the east, fairly well attended in the middle west, and of only negligible importance in the south and on the Pacific coast. The biggest walk-out was New York's with 10,000 college students and 300 from high schools taking part. Twenty-three hundred demonstrated at Cornell, 1,500 at the University of Chicago, 300 at the University of Michigan, 1,200 at Dartmouth and 1,500 at Brown.

Lanier Pratt and Gordon Wood Given Duke Awards
Edwin Hodge is Initiated Into National Chemical Fraternity

Walt Dickson Leads Trackmen in Points
Twenty-six members of the varsity track squad tallied points for Davidson during the past season. Walt Dickson was high scorer with 36 points, and Billy Merchant tied Wade Barrow with 32. John Lee scored 21 1-4 points during the season. Others who led in the scoring were Wicker with 21, Faison with 15, Gregory 15, Johnson, J. D., 14, Tipton 14, Johnston, D., 13, Pittman, 11 5-6, Brown, 11, Parcell 10, Fort 9 5-6, and Shuford 9.

MERCER GIVES MAY PROGRAM
Macon College Invites High School Prospects to Annual Pilgrimage

Macon, Ga., May 6.—For the annual Mercer Pilgrimage on May 1, 1,000 high school seniors who wish to go to college next year were given a day on the Mercer campus by local units of the Women’s Missionary Union of Georgia. Features of the program, according to Dr. Spright Dowell, president of the institution, included a barbecue dinner in the college gymnasium, entertainment by the Mercer Glee Club and other campus organizations, brief talks by student leaders and members of the faculty, a caravan through the city of Macon to the Indian Mounds, and a reception in the late afternoon by the Mercer Auxiliary.

At the Indian Mounds, General A. Harris, Linton Solomon, and Harrold Dively, each in charge of a group, explained the archaeological work being done and the historical significance of the finds. Through the efforts of Hamilton Holt, Macon civic leader and chairman of the general committee on arrangements, the Macon Civitan Club, the only body attended in a regular meeting on Friday, modified its own program in order that members might participate. Every opportunity was offered by public-minded leaders in business and the professions to let the visitors learn the attractions of Macon as a background for higher education. Mercer representatives presented their institution as a fully-accredited university for the education of both men and women.

CINEMATIC COMMENTS
JOE DEES ANNOUNCES

Wednesday, May 6
Special Investigator
It took a passionate denouncing by an outraged judge and the murder of his brother to make shyster lawyer Dix change his ways. But he sees the light, joins the department of justice as a special investigator, and sets out to capture a gang of gold thieves. The plot is complicated when Dix falls for the sister of the gang's ringleader. This picture makes a very satisfying time-passer.

Thursday-Friday, May 7-8
The Trail of the Lonesome Pine
John Fox’s story of the Kentucky hills in full technicolor with a good cast. Beautiful scenery in natural color helps cover up several weaknesses of plot. Fred MacMurray, Henry Fonda, and Sylvia Sidney are the principals, and the show is eminently worth seeing.

Saturday, May 9
Robin Hood of Eldorado
Warner Baxter in a rousing old-fashioned western filled with fast gun-play, knifing, and murders galore. Baxter is a peaceful peasant in old California until his home is ravaged by a band of Americans. Then he becomes a revengeful outlaw, spreading death and destruction among the hated “gringos” until the vigilantes finally shoot him down.

Monday, May 11
Little Lord Fauntleroy
The beloved old familiar story of the little Brooklyn boy taken to England when he inherited an ancient and honorable title. All the characters are there—Freddie Bartholomew as Ceddie; Dolores Costello as Dearest; Aubrey Smith as the Earl. This has been rated as one of the best pictures appearing recently.

MASQUERS' NEW PLAY
Black and White Puppy Takes Part in Chapel

Ex-cheerleader Dees made a noble effort to give the Red and Black Masquers’ last production of the current season sufficient publicity, in a speech made before the student body in assembly, Monday morning. Difficulties, however, presented themselves, in the form of a stray black and white puppy which pranced around Dees. The puppy yelped and barked, interrupting Dees' inspiring speech. The more sophomores, as usual, made more noise than the dog or the speaker. On Tuesday morning the cast of the play, “Three Cornered Moon” gave a humorous preview of their play in a last despairing attempt to attract a crowd. The turn-out Tuesday night was satisfying, though Will Rogers ran close competition in the local movie theatre.

Among the sixty-one winners of fellowships and scholarships for 1936-37 announced April 30 by Duke University are two Davidson alumni, Gordon R. Wood and Lanier W. Pratt. Gordon Wood, class of 1935, was awarded a fellowship. During the academic year he made an excellent record in graduate work in English, until forced to discontinue his studies by a very serious illness. He is now recuperating at Fort Pierce, Fla. Lanier Pratt, class of 1934, who distinguished himself in French, dramatics, and especially in French, is now teaching that language at the Berry Schools in Rome, Georgia. Pratt has been awarded a graduate scholarship in French for 1936-37. Harvey Glass, class of 1936, has been elected to fill the vacancy at the Berry Schools left by Pratt's resignation. Most of the fellowships are valued at $600 to $650. Graduate scholarships are worth from $350 to $400.

Word has just been received from Syracuse University that Edwin S. Hodge of the class of 1935 was one of ten men initiated into Alpha Chi Sigma, national professional chemical society. High scholarship and promise in chemistry are the basis of selection.

TOWN TATTLE
Parents’ Day will be observed by the Davidson Graded School Thursday, May 7, in connection with the commencement of the grammar grades. Honors will be awarded at the morning chapel period.

The Junior-Senior banquet will be held Friday evening, in the banquet hall of Chambers Building.

Mr. and Mrs. Scott Cary Lyon announce the coming marriage of their daughter, Malline, to Mr. Philip Slaughter, on Friday, May 15, in the Presbyterian church.

Mrs. E. F. Shewmake entertained informally Saturday afternoon in honor of Miss Corinne Wagner, who is a guest of her sister, Mrs. Frazer Hood.

Mrs. Robert Garth, and her children, of New York City, are visiting in the home of Mrs. Garth's parents, Dr. and Mrs. T. W. Lingle.

Mr. and Mrs. Franklin Gainey announce the birth of a son Saturday, May 2. He will be called Richard Lee.

Mrs. Alfred Tong, and her son, of New Haven, Conn., are visiting relatives in Davidson. Mrs. Tong was, before her marriage, Miss Sarah Thompson, daughter of Mr. W. H. Thompson.

Misses Adele Arbuckle and Charlotte Hunter have returned to Davidson after attending the May Day exercises at Agnes Scott.

The Sorosis Club was entertained at dinner Thursday evening, by Mrs. A. L. Hobbs and Mrs. E. J. Gaffney. This was the last meeting of the year.

Mrs. C. R. Harding entertained the Book-Lovers Club Friday afternoon, at the home of her daughter, Mrs. Addison Brenizer, in Charlotte. Mrs. T. W. Lingle gave a paper on modern poetry.

Mrs. Lewis Schenck has returned after a visit of several days with her parents, Dr. and Mrs. Charles Myers, of Greensboro.

Misses Margaret and Shirley Ann Gooch, of Chapel Hill, are visiting their grandparents, Prof. and Mrs. F. K. Meagle.

Mrs. C. M. Richards has returned after a visit of several days with Dr. and Mrs. McDowell Richards, of Decatur, Ga.

Prof. Ernest Beaty delivered the baccalaureate...Sermon at the Marshville and Matthews High Schools Sunday, May 3

The individual who follows the Master must go to the cross and he must go there alone. In conclusion, Dr. Gwynn said that we should come, then, to the observance of the Lord’s Supper with a cry of repentance on our lips. Following Dr. Gwynn's talk, the Rev. H. M. Moffett and the Rev. C. M. Richards officiated in the services of the sacrament. The elders of the First Presbyterian Church of Davidson administered the sacrament to the congregation.

Dr. Kenneth J. Foreman, Professor of Bible at Davidson, will conduct the vespers next Sunday night. Dr. Marion of Rock Hill, S.C., will be the guest speaker for the May 17th service. The Syracuse University administration has barred the establishment of a chapter of the American Student Union on the campus. The decision was made after Cyril Wildkitten Baseball Team Defeats Gastonia, Abbey Down Belmont For Second Straight Victory Split With Gastonia; Hicks, Hand Are Stars Diphtheria Causes Cancellation Of Final Games

The Wildkitten baseball team has just completed a busy week in which they netted two victories, from Gastonia on last Monday, 4-1, and from Belmont Abbey on last Thursday, 7-4, and one defeat at the hands of the same Gastonia team on Tuesday, 11-0. The frosh nine visited Gastonia on last Monday and won from the Gastonia team with J. D. Hicks pitching, by a score of 4-1. The Gastonia team journeyed to Davidson on Tuesday to take the second game of the two-game series 11-0, despite a record turned in by Buddy Connor, Young, and Parker.

On Thursday afternoon, the Wildkittens made a trip to Belmont where they took nine innings to defeat the Belmont Abbey aggregation, 7-4. The line-up for the frosh in the Belmont Abbey game was: Hicks and Young, pitchers; McCall, catcher; Johnston, first base; Hemphill, second base; Hand, third base; Steere, shortstop; Edwards, left-field; Stair, center-field; and Benfield, right-field. Belmont was represented by: Coggins, pitcher; Barry, catcher; Reep, first base; Jenkins, second base; Mauro, third base; Lippard, shortstop; Wilson, left-field; Wright, center-field; and Moss, right-field.

The Wildkittens scored two runs in the second inning and one in the seventh, while Belmont came back with four runs in the eighth. In the first of the ninth inning, Hand hit a double which brought in Hicks from third base to tie the score. In the first part of the tenth inning, the frosh scored three runs, but the Belmont aggregation was unable to add to their tally. The leading hitters in the game were McCall, Edwards, and Stair, each with two hits to their credit. The games scheduled to be played on a three-day trip this week, with Brevard, Blue Ridge, and Mars Hill, were canceled because of the prevalence of diphtheria in those communities. Manager “Coke” Branton is trying to arrange for several more games to be played before the end of the season.

Princeton Teachers Burned In Explosion

Princeton, N.J. (ACP) — Two Princeton professors were burned, and $4,000 worth of radium was scattered in minute particles throughout a laboratory here when a test tube mysteriously exploded. Determined efforts to recover the invisible bits from the walls, floor, and ceiling of the laboratory are being made, and the two experimenters, members of the Princeton Physics department, will undergo extensive tests to determine whether they have contracted the incurable radium poisoning. The reason for the explosion of the radium, which was mixed with five grams of beryllium, is unknown.

Sun-Bathing Spring Fashion

Students Resemble Ancient Sun Worshipers Performing Rites

No, Davidson does not have a nudist colony! Oh, no, don't become alarmed; really it’s not quite a nudist colony. For the inmates are for the most part sufficiently clad to appear on a public beach without undue embarrassment. A visit to the stadium during any one of these hot spring afternoons would reveal several scores of these amateur sun worshipers basking in the health-giving rays. The practice of sun-bathing began several years ago and received considerable encouragement from Captain Pritchett who recognized its value as an aid to student health. Some cautious souls protect a sensitive epidermis beneath a coating of olive oil, some slowly deepen into a rich, effortless tan, while others more foolhardy, less cautious cook to a beautiful boiled-lobster red, blister, suffer, peel, and disgustedly find that their complexion has bleached to its original lily-whiteness. Some take their sunlight and air basking on multi-colored blankets, risking annihilation from the stings of countless bees which swarm the adjacent clover. Others gambol about the turf in games of their own devising; yet others elect the track and jumping pits for their divertissement. The resulting tan is marvelous for all who can take it. Like most nudist colonies, this one is decorously shielded from view by the high hedge surrounding the athletic field. Hence, gentle reader, the students may burn for their undue exposure, but no one is shocked.

Dramatists Present

The three boys then rush out to tell Kitty, as Donald comes down the stairs to start an argument with Dr. Stephens and Elizabeth. He finally leaves in a huff, vowing never to return. After Donald’s exit, Dr. Stephens and Elizabeth have quite a little chat, finally deciding to get married. The boys rush in again, intent upon fixing Kenneth up so that he will marry, and the play ends with Dr. Stephens approving of Kenneth and Elizabeth getting married.

The Masquers’ production of “Three Cornered Moon” was the final presentation of the season. This was the third production in three weeks, and it was the most presentable for the Masquers.

Palm Beach 1936

“Keck Weave” is the name of this new idea in Palm Beach Suits. It's an original two-toned tweedy effect with an open, porous construction. Goodall, who weaves the patented cloth, has tailored it skillfully into splendid fitting single and double-breasted suits and ensembles; some sport back, some plain. These shape-retaining, washable garments cost no more than our regular Palm Beach Suits. They’re unusually handsome.

Extra Slacks $5.00

The Davidsonian

The Davidsonian, Davidson College, Davidson, N.C.