THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 19, 1936

ALUMNI COMMITTEE IS OFFERED REPORT IN RECENT MEETING
Finances in Highly Favorable Condition For Centennial Celebration
ALUMNI GROUPS ACTIVE
Office to Complete Record of All Graduates

On Tuesday evening at eight o'clock the standing committee of the Alumni Association met in the office of Grier Martin, secretary, who made a report to the committee on alumni dues, new chapters, and various alumni activities. This standing committee, composed of alumni from Gastonia, the president, and others, discussed the favorable financial condition for the upcoming Centennial Celebration.

FROSH ENDURE PREINITIATION
Eccentric Pledges Perform Odd Antics on Campus
By EUCLID FANT

One, two, three, jump! One, two, three! Much as it sounds like a drill, Freshman pledges were seen performing eccentric antics on campus. Some carried red-caps through the cold snowy weather, while others indulged in various odd activities. The pledges were confined to their rooms, which were hung with peculiar decorations. Quite a shock awaits them when they find their garments in disarray. The preinitiation activities are not behind us yet, and there is a rumor that the leading man has a razor and shaving cord as a result of the procedure.

FIGHTERS PREPARE
(Continued from Page 4)

The fighters are preparing for the upcoming bouts, promising plenty of action. Cade in the heavyweight and Six in the unlimited class are expected to perform well. McClellan and Gasteiger are both strong contenders in the middleweight category. W. B. Moore, a lightweight winner two years ago, will be back in his class, offering tough opposition. Squires, who won in the 145-pound class last winter, is undecided about participating. If he does, Crabb will have his hands full. "Big Six" Johnson has no opposition in the unlimited class, and Midget Verble will likely step up a few weights to compete. Despite the size difference, this bout should pack plenty of wallop. Bankhead is working hard in the 135-pound class. Sellars, Gilbert, Cleveland, Houston, Johnson, Isler, Jim Stevens, Chapman, and other men will be packing plenty of punch. Major Seifert will act as referee, and Coaches Newton, McEver, Laird, and Unger will be judges. Each bout will go three two-minute rounds, with an extra round in case of a draw.

AMONG THE GREEKS

SIGMA ALPHA EPSILON—Brother Marchant visited his home in Greensville, S. C., Saturday and Sunday. Brother Armfield has returned to school after an illness at home. Brothers Higgins and Sours gave Queens a break Friday night.

PHI GAMMA DELTA—Howell Overton, Arthur Cooke, and Paul Harlan visited Greensboro over the weekend. Cokey Branton made an enjoyable and profitable visit to Brenau. Bruce Sugg, an alumnus brother, visited Delta Kappa Chapter last week. Brothers attended the senior dinner at Salem College Saturday evening.

PHI DELTA THETA—The N. C. Gamma Chapter was visited Sunday afternoon by Misses Jean and Martha Johnston. A feed was held in the chapter house Sunday evening. Brothers Partridge and Breeden attended a dance at Converse Saturday night. Brothers McClelland and Brance spent the weekend in Atlanta, while Dan Griffen changed his hunting grounds from Randolph-Macon to Brenau.

SIGMA PHI EPSILON—Brother Andy Turner was crowned “King of Hearts” at the annual Queens’ Valentine party. Wiley Goslen performed the coronation ceremony. Bill Bradley went to his home in Shelby for a brief visit after being in the Davidson hospital for two days. A brief period of freshman chastisement terminated last Tuesday—formal initiation of new men took place Thursday, February 13.

SPORTS STACATO
(Continued from Page 4)

In football too, we have Duke this year in athletics and have an equal chance to dispose of Carolina likewise before our athletic program expires this year. We've actually defeated some conference member in some form of athletics at least once every year since I have been here. I can prove that, and what has been done can be done again. Both our courtmen and wrestlers indulged in a bit of action this past week and split even—winning one and losing one. Maurice Peabody and Bill Quick only added to our belief that they could make any team in the state, while Johnny Armstrong and Ken Knorr showed that they are improving steadily. Fred Cathey, as consistent as any member of the team, saved the Catawba contest with his perfect foul shot.Each member of the team for an after-game statement, our success was limited to the following:

Bill Hancock, towering center, expressed himself with: “Looks like we can’t play a good game here. Hope we can before the season's over.”

Ken described the game as a “momentary relax- We gotta’ win in Virginia or I'll be disgraced.”

Bill Quick stated that Gardiner of Catawba was good at blocking and also added that Gardiner, incidentally, had been selected on the little All-American football team for two years.

Wild and woolly mountaineers rolled into Davidson last Saturday night and destroyed all chance of holding on to the State title. Polk Moffett, Frank Owen, Char Bixler, and Alec Brown entered the ring for the first time this year but were defeated by Appalachian’s more experienced wrestlers. Coach Unger, who was feeling pretty low after the fight, stated that Davidson could have won the match if Brown had simply resorted to keeping his opponent away from him. “Alec was stronger than his opponent. I felt sure that he could have won.”

JAY-CEE BIDS SENT (Continued from Page 4)

The mile relay will be run by “Swede” Johnson, “Mokey” Faison, Bob Gregory, and Bill Hickman; John Lee and Paul Pittman are entered in the pole vault, the only field event in which the Wildcats will compete. From the other schools, many outstanding trackmen will be running. Harry Williamson of North Carolina, a noted miler, is entered again this year. Last year Williamson won the Barret mile in the Jay Cee Meet. Forrest Towns, the sensational Georgia hurdler, and Hamp Lyon, Alabama's Southeastern Conference shotput champion, have also been invited to compete. Heath Whittle and Capt. Norton Pritchett of Virginia, who is the former Athletic Director of Davidson, have been selected to serve as officials for the meet.

RIFLE TEAM COMPLETES (Continued from Page 4)

The stages will be February 17-21, a strenuous week, as all final matches (sitting, kneeling, standing) must be completed within this time. All candidates, as well as all eligible team members, should be on the range during all spare time, commencing next Monday. Any candidate can shoot any one of the remaining matches.

The averages for the team members done by last week are as follows: A. C. Warlick, freshman, 98; A. G. Myers, freshman, 96; J. R. Sample, freshman, 96; J. C. McClure, freshman, 96; C. W. Sample, freshman, 95; R. H. Theiling, sophomore, 95; G. B. Cleveland, sophomore, 95; J. S. Rice, freshman, 94; W. F. Withers, freshman, 92; J. J. Sumimerell, freshman, 91; P. E. Conner, freshman, 91; K. M. McIntyre, freshman, 90; J. K. Cline, freshman, 85; C. A. Hines, freshman, 83.

WILDCATS BREAK EVEN (Continued From Page 4)

Knorr’s ten points were tops for the 'Cats, while Podger scored nine points and Riley eight.

Davidson 25; Catawba 24

Dick Cathey’s foul goal in the last thirty seconds of play climaxed a thrilling game and gave Davidson a one-point victory over the strong Catawba Indians, 25-24. Catawba got away to a whirlwind start and quickly racked up three points before Davidson called time out. The 'Cat offense then warmed up, and they scored three goals to tie the score at six-all. Spirit was running high on both teams, and the lead see-sawed from one team to the other. The Wildcats led 15-12 at the half, but the Indians came back strong after the intermission to tie the score at 24-all with only thirty seconds left in the game. Maurice Peabody chalked up eleven points to head the 'Cat scorers, while Pritchard and Garland were the Indian high-scorers.

JUNIORS WILL GIVE DANCES (Continued from Page 1)

Usually, an athletic event was included in the program along with some form of student entertainment. There was also a faculty reception, teas, and concerts by the band and glee club. Finally, the day changed from a function with speeches into a social day. This was necessitated by the fact that the class had become too large for each member to make a speech. This is the present Junior Speaking: and from this, we now have...

CINEMATIC COMMENTS

Wednesday, Feb. 19th
VOICE OF BUGLE ANN

“The Voice of Bugle Ann” is a dog story. Lionel Barrymore, Maureen O'Sullivan, Eric Linden, and Henry Wadsworth are cast in this movie.

Thursday, Feb. 20th
IT HAD TO HAPPEN

Previews tend to rate this picture rather highly. With an outstanding Hollywood cast that includes George Raft, Rosalind Russell, Arline Judge, Alan Dinehart, and Leo Carrillo, it should be almost good. Leo Carrillo steals the show.

Friday, Feb. 21st
WOMAN TRAP

An exciting plot with Gertrude Michael, George Murphy, and Roscoe Karns.

Monday & Tuesday, Feb. 24-25
BOHEMIAN GIRL

A good Laurel and Hardy comedy, with music, built around this vintage opera and produced by Hal Roach. There are several spots with good five-minute laughs, and these comedians were never funnier than as they appear as Gypsies, whose torture chamber session will put you in stitches.

PAN-HELLENIC (Continued from Page 1)

To pay a certain amount in March and April, thus putting the Council in a position to contract for a better orchestra. This will soon be presented to the student body for a vote.

Phonograph Records
QUALITY at LOW COST
Everything Musical
M. H. GOODRUM
ANDREWS MUSIC COMPANY
231 N. Tryon St. Charlotte

Davidson Theatre

WEDNESDAY, FEB. 19
VOICE OF BUGLE ANN
With Lionel Barrymore, Maureen O'Sullivan, Eric Linden, and Henry Wadsworth

THURSDAY, FEB. 20
IT HAD TO HAPPEN
George Raft, Rosalind Russell, Arline Judge, Leo Carrillo, and Alan Dinehart

FRIDAY, FEB. 21
WOMAN TRAP
With Gertrude Michael, George Murphy, and Roscoe Karns

MONDAY & TUESDAY, FEB. 24-25
BOHEMIAN GIRL
Featuring that Laurel and Hardy Comedy Team