MERRY CHRISTMAS! ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

HAPPY NEW YEAR!

VOL. XXIV DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., DECEMBER 16, 1936 NO. 13

GRAHAM PLAN MODIFIED WHILE VIRGINIA RESIGNS AT MEETING
Some Favor Abolishment But Majority Vote For Milder Regulations
SHEPARD ATTENDS MEET
Athletes Must Pass 24 Hours Work to Play

Resignation of one of its members and modification of the Graham plan featured the meeting of the Southern Conference in
Richmond, Va., Friday and Saturday, Dec. 11-12. Coach Norman Shepard represented Davidson at the conference.

Immediately after the group had convened Friday afternoon, the representative of the University of Virginia, Capt. Norton G. Pritchett (who
was director of athletics here before going to Virginia), delivered a letter of resignation from his institution, stating that Virginia,
having conscientiously abided by the regulations of the conference, felt that those rulings failed to accomplish their purpose and only
bred a distrust and ill-feeling among the member institutions.

Resignation Tabled

The conference decided not to accept the resignation of Virginia as yet, but to table it until next year’s meeting,
in hopes that officials of that school might see fit to withdraw their resignation before that time.

According to Coach Shepard, the essential features of the Graham plan were retained with the exception that now no control
is supposed to extend outside of an institution. The Graham plan has attempted to control subsidization of athletes by alumni
as well as by schools outright; now it makes no attempt to regulate the activities of persons outside the institutions.

Some Against Plan

As the meeting began, it was evident that some of the members favored complete abolishment of the Graham plan, but
a majority soon wanted the best features retained with the undesirable ones modified. The University of South Carolina recommended that
the conference adopt the same rules as the Southeastern conference, with open subsidization, but the proposal was quickly voted down.

The most important new ruling requires an athlete to have passed 24 semester hours of work the previous year in
order to be eligible.

“Y” DRIVE FOR FUNDS IN FULL SWING
McClure and Crane Make Talks to Students on Proposed Gift

The campaign for the annual Christmas gift fund got under way Monday morning when Rev. Albert McClure addressed the students
on the subject. The drive continued yesterday and this morning, as Rev. Dye, a Davidson graduate and head of the
Morrison Bible School at Mutoto, Africa, spoke in chapel.

Men have been assigned to solicit each dormitory for funds. Seven posters have been placed in Chambers building to show
graphically the percentage of members contributing and the amount contributed by each dormitory. One poster shows the total given. It
is the aim of the “Y” to collect eight hundred dollars. The money, this year, is to go to furnish
an electric plant for the Mutoto hospital and the Morrison Bible School at Mutoto in the Belgian Congo.

The men who are soliciting and the dormitories assigned to them are: Rumple, Tom Thurston; Watts, Bill Brown; North and
South, L. C. Vass; West, H. N. Hill; Georgia, Worth Sprunt; West, Bob Lafferty. The day students will be approached
by Dick Vowles and George Albright.

SYMPHONIC BAND

The Davidson College symphonic band, pictured above, will present a concert Friday night of this week, and will also assist
the glee club and orchestra in the Vespers service Sunday night. Soloists in the band concert will be Mrs. J.
C. Pfohl and Mr. Thane McDonald.

Christmas Vespers Will Feature Musical Groups

LECTURE GIVEN ON “MICROBES”
Dr. George Rommert Shows Interesting Points on Microscopic World
FROM MUNICH, GERMANY
Eminent Scientist Praised on High Grade Work

Dr. George Rommert, eminent German scientist, delivered an illustrated lecture here last night in Chambers auditorium on the Micro-Vivarium. The
lecture was given under the auspices of the Faculty Committee on Lectures.

Dr. Rommert has evolved and perfected a special method of Micro-projection. This method enables the observer, without the aid of
photographs or films, to look directly into the microscopic world. It is made to stand out clearly before the eyes
of all in natural color and movement. Dr. Rommert manipulates the microscope and at the same time demonstrates, by means
of a special arrangement of mirror and prism, the processes that are taking place under the microscope.

Dr. Rommert has spent some fifteen years perfecting this method of giving a lecture of this kind. Mr. George H.
Sherwood, director of the American Museum of Natural History, said of Dr. Rommert’s lecture: “Your demonstrations were marvelous; the perfection
of your technique almost unbelievable; and the educational value of your method, in my opinion, unrivaled.” He has also received
many tributes from other noted scientists. Dr. Rommert is from the Biological Laboratories of Munich, Germany.

(Continued on Page 2)

MUSIC FOR MID-WINTERS TO BE ANNOUNCED SOON

“Ed” Armfield, president of the Pan-Hellenic Council, when in New York on the 26th of November, got in touch with
the Music Corporation of America officials concerning an orchestra for Mid-Winters. The M. C. A. said that they would have
an orchestra and send the contract to him in ten or twelve days. At the end of the twelve days
he had received no reply. Ed states, “The M. C. A. has a monopolistic position on all the better-known bands
of the United States, and you just have to wait on them. It is hoped that the orchestra playing for
Mid-Winters will be announced to the student body before the holidays begin.”

Glee Club, Orchestra, Quartet, And Mrs. Norman Shepard To Appear
“Y” PREPARES PROGRAM
Handel’s “Hallelujah Chorus” To Be Sung

The annual Vesper Service of Christmas Music will be held in Chambers auditorium Sunday evening, Dec. 20, at 7:30 P.M.
From 7:00 to 7:15 carols will be played from the top of Chambers building. The service in the auditorium will
begin at 7:30.

Two selections from Handel's Messiah will be used as the prelude and conclusion of the service. The former will be
the “Lift Up Your Heads” chorus, played by the Little Symphony Orchestra. The benediction will be preceded by the “Hallelujah
Chorus” played by the Symphonic Band.

The Chorale, with the congregation, will open the service by singing “Break Forth, O Beauteous Heavenly Light,” by Bach. Following
a prayer, the congregation will unite in singing “O Come All Ye Faithful.” The main part of the service is
divided into three parts, the Prophecy, the Birth, and the Adoration. The first division will feature carols by Miss Ann
Nisbett, harpist, and “How Brightly Beams the Morning Star,” by Praetorius, sung by the quartet. The second part, The Birth,
will feature “O Holy Night,” sung by Mrs. Norman Shepard and the glee club. The Adoration will be distinguished by
the glee club's rendering of “Angels We Have Heard on High,” the traditional French carol.

(Continued on Page 2)

JACKSON MADE VICE-PRESIDENT IN ASSOCIATION
Treasurer Represents Davidson College at New York Gathering
DISCUSS COLLEGE WORK
Captain L. A. Mullen Gives Alumni Luncheon

Mr. I. L. Jackson, treasurer of Davidson College, was recently elected vice-president of the Association of University and College Business
Offices of the Eastern States. The association met in New York on December 4-5 to discuss investments, insurance, operation, maintenance,
and other problems connected with the matter of college finances. At the conclusion of this meeting the officers were elected,
the complete list being as follows: Mr. H. P. Hyde of Smith College, president; Mr. Jackson, vice-president; Mr. Horace Ford
of Massachusetts Institute of Technology, secretary-treasurer. Besides being the newly elected vice-president of this association, Mr. Jackson is the official
representative of Davidson College, and a member of the board of directors of the association.

While in New York, Mr. Jackson attended the meetings of the Southern Society, at which the Honorable Carter Glass, United
States Senator from Virginia, was the principal speaker. He had lunch with the treasurer of New York.

(Continued on Page 2)

VARSITY ELECTS NEW MANAGER
Faison, Dorsett, and Arrowsmith Are Chosen By Football Squad

The members of the 1936 Wildcat varsity football squad met last Thursday morning, December 10, and elected Yates Faison varsity
football manager for the next season; Jim Dorsett, equipment manager; and “Booby” Arrowsmith, freshman team manager.manager. These men will succeed
"Schnoz" Hill, "Buddy" Branton, and Dave Sellars, who have served as the senior managers this season, and will begin their
work when the spring football practice sessions are held in March, at which time the junior managers will be appointed.
Faison is a member of the Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity and the sports editor of the Davidsonian. Dorsett is
a member of Phi Gamma Delta and is an assistant editor of the 1936 Quips and Cranks. Arrowsmith is a
member of the Pi Kappa Phi fraternity, a member of the Black Keys society, and a member of the Court
of Control.

MANAGERS FOR TEAM.

CONCERT BAND WILL PRESENT PROGRAM NEXT FRIDAY NIGHT

Mrs. Louise Pfohl Will Play as Piano Soloist; McDonald To Be at Organ

BAND IN FOURTH YEAR

"Q Davidson" Will End Classical Repertoire

The Davidson College Symphonic Band will present a program in Chambers auditorium on Friday, Dec. 18, at 8:30. This concert
marks the band's fourth season, and their soloist this year will be Mrs. Louise Nelson Pfohl, pianist.

First Number

The first number of the program will be Abert’s Chorale of Bach's Fugue in G Minor, arranged and played by
the band, and Mr. Thane McDonald at the organ. Of this number, McDonald says in his program notes, “This arrangement
of the G Minor Fugue opens with a majestic chorale played by the brass section immediately, followed by the fugue,
which was written by Bach for a recital he played in Hamburg in 1720. From the gay and sprightly fugue
subject, Bach builds a glorious polyphonic structure into which the opening chorale has been skilfully interwoven by Mr. Abert. Thus
adorned, the original organ fugue is even more thrilling in its tonal display and craftsmanship towards the final climax."

Mexican March

Next on the program will be the Mexican march, "Amparito Roco," by Texidor, followed by Liszt's "Phantasy for Piano and
Violin." Professor McDonald says this piece is an example of the heroic and powerful development of the piano and violin.

"Marche Slave"

The program will continue with Tchaikovsky's "Marche Slave," a powerful piece that showcases the band's dynamic range and skill.

Davidson Represented By Dr. G. B. Watts At Harvard’s Tercentenary Celebration

Dr. G. B. Watts of the faculty, who was the Davidson delegate to the Harvard Tercentenary celebration, has been requested
to give an account of that celebration by The Davidsonian. At the Davidsonian’s request, the following notes concerning the Harvard
Tercentenary Celebration last summer were submitted:

"Early in September, Dr. W. L. Lingle asked me to officially represent Davidson College at the Tercentenary conferences in Cambridge,
where over sixty scholars from all over the world were speakers.

Opening Ceremony

The opening ceremony was one of supreme dignity and solemnity. First to cross the stage was the delegate of the
ancient university of Al-Azhar at Cairo, Egypt, followed by the delegates from the universities of Cambridge, the Scandinavian countries, Austria,
and Spain. The delegates marched in the order of the founding of their institutions, Davidson being No. 163.

Delegates Addressed

After the official delegates had been introduced to the president, he addressed them, welcoming them as "an impressive demonstration of
the solidarity of the learned world." Professor Elie Cartan, a distinguished mathematician of the University of Paris, responded in French
for all the delegates, speaking of the "collective task which at once unites and surpasses them all: the quest for
truth."

Chief Event

The chief event of the celebration was the address by President Conant, who insisted on "absolute freedom of discussion, absolutely
unmolested inquiry." The ceremony concluded with the reading of the ceremonial poem, "Lines on the Tercentenary" by John Masefield, poet
laureate of England.

Dr. Edwin Mims

Pictured above is Dr. Edwin Mims, head of the Vanderbilt University English Department, who made the chief address at the
Phi Beta Kappa banquet, and spoke to the student body during the chapel hour.

STUDENT BODY HEARS LECTURE

Vanderbilt Professor Addresses Students Telling Various Experiences

LAUDS ENGLISH LEADERS

Fascism and Communism in Britain

Dr. Edwin Mims, head of the Vanderbilt University English Department, addressed the student body in chapel last Saturday morning. Dr.
Mims gave a very interesting talk about his experiences in England and made several comparisons between English and American students.
According to Dr. Mims, English students are much more serious in their speech and thought than American students. The American
"bull session" is not found in the English dormitories, said Dr. Mims, but a much more serious topic of conversation
is carried on.

In his visits to the debates of Parliament, the distinguished educator heard the leaders of England (Lord George, Winston Churchill,
Anthony Eden, and Sir Stanley Baldwin) make masterful speeches to the house. Dr. Mims was very much impressed by Sir
Baldwin. He felt that the Prime Minister is a very capable leader and commanding man. The educator stated that he
felt the English people have a great deal of confidence in Sir Baldwin.

NEW BUILDING PLAN SPENDING $1,000,000

Library, Church, Social Center, Infirmary, Figure In Program

TO CAMPAIGN FOR SUM

Will Be Quiet Drive With No Deadline

The Centennial building program for the college, as announced by Dr. W. L. Lingle, will call for the raising of
about one million dollars. This money will be obtained by a quiet campaign. Plans for the buildings have already been
drawn up by architects. They include: a library to cost $200,000; a gymnasium or field house costing $150,000; a $100,000
social center and dining hall; a science building of $150,000; a $100,000 dormitory; a church to cost $250,000, and a
$35,000 infirmary. These buildings will all have the college seal on the front.

Continuous Campaign

According to Dr. Lingle, the campaign for these funds will be a continuous one but not a hurried one. The
college authorities will try to raise the money as soon as possible, but there will be no furious attempt to
get it by a certain time. Dr. Lingle pointed out that there is a great need for all of the
buildings that are included in the program. The present library is too small to hold all of the necessary books,
and a field house and gymnasium would complete the athletic program. The present infirmary is an old frame building that
is far too small for the needs of the students.

Social Center

At present, the social center is inadequate and unsuited to the needs of the students and friends. There are students
who have to live out of town because of lack of room in the dormitories. The present science building is
out of date and too small for the number of students taking courses in sciences. The church is so much
too small that the evening services are held in Chambers building auditorium.

REV. D. P. McGEACHY PREACHES ON SUNDAY

His Theme "Forgiveness;" Compares "Tempest" to Christian Principles

Rev. D. P. McGeachy of Davidson delivered the sermon last Sunday. The theme of his sermon was "Forgiveness." He introduced
his topic by speaking of Shakespeare's play, "The Tempest," in which Prospero, the rightful Duke of Milan, forgives his enemies.
Rev. McGeachy emphasized that forgiveness is a crucial element in Christian principles. He stated that many people fail to realize
that reconciliation between man and man is just as important as that between man and God. Both are bound together,
inseparably, in Christ's gospel of reconciliation and love.
