~ THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 18, 1936 : 5

CONCERT BAND TO PLAY HERE ON MARCH 20
Helms, Parker and Tillotson to Be Featured in Baritone Trio
PURDY PLANS TOUR
Davidson Quartet Will Accompany the Band

The Davidson College Symphonic Band will play its annual home concert in the Chambers Building auditorium at eight o'clock, Friday
evening, March 20. The program will be the same as that which will be used throughout the ten-day tour which
begins on March 23. This year the band is presenting a program which is unusually difficult for a college organization,
but it is one which has a wide scope of appeal. It is only because this is not an ordinary
band that such a program is possible. The “military” type band could not play many of the pieces, but instruments
that the Davidson Band, a symphonic band, allow it to play them efficiently and artistically.

Will Leave Monday

On March 23, the band will leave on a ten-day tour of three southern states. The trip will cover about
a thousand miles of North Carolina, Georgia, and Tennessee. There will be no admission charge for the concert here Friday
night, but a free-will offering will be taken to help the band on the trip. The band is a self-supporting
organization and receives no help from the college. The trip was arranged by R. R. Purdy, business manager of the
band; Ed Johnson, president; Harris Bradley, vice-president; Wiley Bradley, secretary-treasurer; the various alumni organizations; and the college authorities.

Has Varied Program

The program to be presented Friday night includes, before intermission, a chorale, “Sleepers Wake by Bach;” an overture, “Ariane,” by
Soyer; a trio for baritones, “Three Kings,” by Walter Smith; and “Prelude to Act III” of Lohengrin and “Bridal Chorus”
by Wagner. After the intermission, during which the college quartet will sing several songs, the band will again take up
the program. It will play “Memories of Stephen Foster,” by Caillet; “Childhood Fantasy,” by Lillya; “Blue Danube Waltzes,” by Strauss;
“Semiramide Overture,” by Rossini; and “O Davidson,” by Shields.

Quartet to Go

Fifty-one students will leave next Monday at four o'clock, and members of the quartet will accompany the band. Special request
was made for them so they will render several numbers of universal appeal. Elaborate preparations have been made which promise
to make this the most successful season that the band has ever had. Attractive posters in red and black with
a picture of the band in the center have been obtained as well as programs with the names of the
members, the selections to be played, and an engraving of the Chambers Building.

CINEMATIC COMMENTS

Wednesday, March 18
Song and Dance Man
The old story of the vaudeville team—one good, one awful—who can't stick together on Broadway. Paul Kelley and Claire struggle
through synthetic emotions and talk so Paul can make a final comeback. The rich boy Michael Whalen walks off with
the girl.

Thursday & Friday, March 19-20
Follow The Fleet
Another musical comedy hit for Fred Astaire and Ginger Rogers. Combining Astaire's amazing dance routines with Irving Berlin’s music and
Ginger’s dancing makes hit pictures almost a cinch. Harriet Hilliard plays the part of Ginger’s sister while Fred runs to
the Navy to forget her. Randy Scott falls in love with Harriet and the song and dance is on again.
Hit tunes are: “We Saw the Sea,” “Let Yourself Go,” “Here Am I.”

Saturday, March 21
Too Many Presents
Sort of a melodrama and a regular Saturday picture show. The big attraction will be the exciting episode of “The
Phantom Empire” starring Gene Autry.

Monday & Tuesday, March 23-24
Love on a Bet
With a plot as highly improbable as an Arabian night tale of conquest against impossible odds, this picture is nevertheless
grand fun from start to finish.

DAVIDSON SYMPHONIC BAND TO TAKE TEN-DAY TRIP.

The Symphonic Band, which is pictured above, will give a concert in Chambers Auditorium on Friday night. On Monday, the
band will leave for a 1,200 mile tour of the Southland. The fifty-one members of the band will be gone
ten days, and will play in the principal cities of South Carolina, Georgia, and Tennessee, and will return to Davidson
on March 31.

Dorsey Speaks Of Band In Interview

Hi-Y Club Has Busy Meeting
High School Group Plans Anti-Cheating Program

The Hi-Y Club, under the supervision of Marion Bryant, made definite plans for a campaign toward clean scholarship, one of
the planks in the club's platform. The club hopes to have the campaign organized and effective before the end of
the school year. President Lewis Parker opened the meeting with the usual ritual, and preliminary business was carried out. James
Willis read a passage from the Scripture and led the club in prayer. The potentialities of Hi-Y work and a
plea for conscientiousness in it were the themes treated by Kenneth Foreman in a talk. Plans concerning the sale of
candy at the high school, in order to raise funds to send delegates to the first National Hi-Y Congress at
Berea College, Ky., late this summer, were discussed. The president and secretary-elect for next year will represent the local club.
Bryant then made a devotional address, applying the principles of the parable of the talents to the lives of the
Hi-Y members.

Tommy Dorsey, nationally-known band leader and trombonist, after completing his theme, “I'm Getting Sentimental Over You” and concluding his radio
broadcast, made his way back stage to be interviewed.

“Where did you get your present band, Tommy?”

“Well, most of the band came from Haimes. When I broke up with my brother, Jimmy, he kept most of
the original band. I had a chance to get Jelly Leftwich’s band and now I have. I’d rather have a
bunch of college fellas if they're good musicians. When I take these college men out and feed ‘em, they're all
appreciative, while these others aren't.”

“What about this break with your brother, or would you rather not say anything about that?”

“I’d rather not. It’s sort of ticklish. A family feud, you know. We just couldn't hit it off.”

“How did you happen to get that swell theme song?”

“My brother and I used to play it. I didn’t want to use it as a theme song because it
featured me.”too much. But then when we separated, I took it for myself, while Timmy uses ‘Japanese Sandman.’

“You like these one-night stands?”

“In a way, yes, and especially if they're college dances. Then we have a lot of fun. When I get
into town, I phone the girls and boys and give ‘em messages from their friends in other colleges.

“At Carolina, some of the boys went out with Don Jackson, and a couple of the boys were taken out
to the governor's house by young Ehringhaus. We saw Don Jackson up in Washington. He didn’t come to the dance
though because he knew we'd kid him!”

“That record you made of ‘The Music Goes ‘Round and Around’ really sold with a bang, didn't it?”

“It certainly did. Victor said it was the best-selling record that they had made in seven years.”

“By the way, why haven't you used the ‘Clam Bake Seven’ tonight?”

“Oh, some of the original members have left us, and we haven't had time to work out anything new.”

“Well, I'll have to get back to the band now. Can't you fellas go out after the dance and talk
with us some more?”

But being already one o'clock, we decided “agin it.”

Museum Has Rare Tablets Exhibit Business Methods of Ancient Times

Are you interested in business methods? If you are, you might like to go by the college museum located on
the second floor of the north wing of Chambers and see the business papers used in transactions about 2000 B.C.
and before. In reality, these business papers are nothing more than small clay tablets inscribed in cuneiform on which transactions
are recorded.

Among the various tablets on display is a business document used about 2000 B.C. in the ancient country of Ellasar
(Genesis 14:1). There are also other tablets which were used as contracts at about this same period. There are also
a large number of temple records consisting of receipts for cattle, sheep, grain, or other things bought or sold by
the temple. The oldest tablet on display is one for grain bought by the temple around 2400 B.C. Also shown
is a shipping tag attached to a basket of supplies.

Civic Club Town Tattle

Civic Club to Beautify City

Ask Help of Students in Furthering Project

For the coming year, the students and the Civic Club will try to take care of the property around the
town and to plant a number of shrubs. Due to the lack of sufficient funds, this project was not carried
out as elaborately as had been planned.

Mrs. Thies, speaking for the committee composed of Miss Cornelia Shaw, Mrs. W. R. Gray, Mrs. Moore McConnell, and Mrs.
W. W. Wood, stated that any suggestions would be appreciated.

Mrs. William King has returned after a visit of several days with friends in Camden, S.C. Mrs. King's home was
formerly in Camden.

Word has been received in Davidson that Major S. Calvin Cumming, brother of Dr. W. P. Cumming, has been promoted
to the rank of Lieutenant Colonel. Lieut.-Col. Cumming is stationed at Quantico, Va.

Geo. M. Cohen's Broadway Hit! Kate Smith’s “SONG AND DANCE MAN” with PAUL KELLY, Earl Carroll's Vanities Star CLAIRE TREVOR,
and CLIFF CRANE.

Recent chemical tests show that each puff of Lucky Strike has less acid. A LIGHT SMOKE OF RICH, RIPE-BODIED TOBACCO

For twenty-five years, the research staff of The American Tobacco Company has worked steadily to produce a measurably finer cigarette—namely,
a cigarette having a minimum of volatile components, with an improved richness of taste—“A LIGHT SMOKE.”

Luckies are less acid. We believe that Lucky Strike Cigarettes embody a number of genuinely basic improvements, and that all
these improvements combine to produce a superior cigarette—a modern cigarette, a cigarette made of rich, ripe-bodied tobaccos—A Light Smoke.

"IT’S TOASTED"

Copyright 1936, The American Tobacco Company

Excess of Acidity of Other Popular Brands Over Lucky Strike Cigarettes

Your throat protection—against irritation—against cough
