VOL. XXIII

“DOC” UNGER RESIGNS POSITION AS COACH OF ’CAT WRESTLERS

BY ALENDA DAVIDSON

DAVIDSONIAN

UBI ORTA LIBERTAS, LEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., JANUARY 29, 1936

FREDDY MARTIN TO START MID-WINTER FRIVOLITIES FRIDAY

NUMBER 13

CONCERT BAND TO GO ON CBS FEBRUARY 5th

Dixie Network to Feature New Series of Programs Wednesday Evenings

EIGHTEEN STATIONS

Quarter Hour to Be Devoted To Band Entirely

The Davidson College Concert Band will be featured over the Dixie Network of the Columbia Broadcasting System in a series of programs beginning Wednesday, February 5, at 7:15 o'clock. The Dixie Network consists of all stations south of Charlotte, eighteen in number. These include Dallas and Houston, Texas; Little Rock, Arkansas; Miami, Jacksonville, and Orlando, Florida; and others. The band will broadcast from Chambers Auditorium as usual, and the program will be sent out over the network through WBT, in Charlotte. Nevertheless, the programs cannot be heard from the Charlotte station.

These programs will be broadcast Wednesday evenings, from 7:15 to 7:30 o'clock, beginning February 5. The quarter hour will be devoted to the band entirely, not to the orchestra or glee club. This broadcast will not take the place of the regular Friday night program over WBT. This will continue as a quarter-hour broadcast, from 10:00 to 10:15 P. M., instead of a full half hour as before. Postcard pictures of the concert band have been prepared by the music department, and will be sent upon request.

Church Group Elects Lingle

Dr. W. L. Lingle was elected president of the North Carolina Council of Churches for the coming year at a recent meeting. The council met at the First Presbyterian Church of Greensboro.

The other newly-elected officers are as follows: Dr. W. W. Peele, pastor of First Methodist Church, Charlotte, first vice-president; Rev. Walser H. Allen, pastor of the Moravian Church, Kernersville, second vice-president; Rev. J. A. Vache, rector of Saint Andrew's Episcopal Church, Greensboro, secretary-treasurer. As outlined in the constitution, the purpose of the council is as follows: “(1) To promote fellowship and mutual understanding among the followers of Christ constituting the communions of North Carolina; (2) To serve as a medium of inter-church advice and counsel on matters affecting the progress of Christianity in the state; (3) To associate the communions in such joint service as may achieve more effectively the objectives of the Christian religion.”

The meeting consisted of two sessions, at which they discussed world relationships, various communities in the state, Youth administration, National and temperance, peace, inter-racial Easter services.

‘Y’ SENDS DEPUTATIONS

The “Y” sent deputations last Sunday, the 26th, to the Charlotte “Y” and to the Davidson Colored Church. J. Walter Dickson and Charles R. Rixler went to the Charlotte Y. M. C. A., the former speaking to an older group of boys, the latter taking charge of the younger boys. This is part of a regular program, Davidson sending two men each Sunday afternoon to speak to these boys of high school age. Reid Newland and David Woodward spoke to the Colored Church, discussing missionary work in Korea and the Philippines.

CAMPUS SET TO ENJOY WEEKEND COMING FRIDAY

EARLY APPEARANCE IS EXPECTED OF ANNUAL

Work on the 1936 edition of QUIPS AND CRANKS has progressed so rapidly that at the present time 90 percent of the material has been sent to the printers. The date for the delivery of the annual cannot be set yet, but it is expected that this year's edition will be out several weeks earlier than has formerly been the custom.

The photographer will return to the campus within the next ten days to take basketball, wrestling, and intramural pictures. Seniors who intend to make application for graduate study and who need application pictures may secure them from L. M. Grimes in 9 Georgia. Students who need their pictures for other purposes will be able to get them at the same place.

Masquers to Present Play

College Actors Considering Three-Act Comedy For Next Production

The Red and Black Masquers have under consideration for their next production “The Queen's Husband,” a comedy in three acts. This play, by Robert E. Sherwood, is a “take-off” on Queen Marie of Roumania, a satire on the dominant type of woman. It has twelve male and four female characters. This play was dramatized on a recent radio broadcast. The dramatic club has also had under consideration “Journey's End,” “Houseparty,” and “Torchbearers.” The three-act play selected will probably be presented within the next three weeks. Production will begin as soon as the various roles have been filled. All men who are interested and have not had tryouts previously are urged to see Dave Herring, president of the Red and Black Masquers. Following this production, the dramatic club intends to present a program entirely devoted to original one-act plays.

Debating Team Busy Training For Season

The debating team, under the supervision of Dr. G. K. Brown, is having coach-classes in preparation for a very active 1936 season. The subject for this season's discussion is: “Resolved that Congress should have power to override by a two-thirds majority, any five-four decision of the Supreme Court declaring a law unconstitutional.” The first trip that the debating team will make will be an extensive southeastern tour, starting February 25. Tyler Port and Wade Boggs will debate on this trip, the University of South Carolina, the University of Florida, Miami University, and Emory. Then, about three weeks later, a team made up of Harold Sugg and Wilbur Edwards will make a western tour. Their activities will carry them into Tennessee, Kentucky, and Virginia. James Selango and Bob Stewart, composing the third team, will make a northern trip which will carry them to Washington. There is a tentative debate set for February 21st with Washington and Lee, here at Davidson.

A columnist at South Dakota State College reports overhearing two girls conversing in front of the bank store. One girl was telling the other how to entertain her boyfriend, “Ask the fellow to be seated,” she said, “and tell him where. Otherwise the poor simp may sit in a chair instead of the davenport.”

Sophomores at Haverford undergo a comprehensive examination of 2,725 questions. Twelve hours are required to complete it.

Freddy Martin’s Orchestra To Be Main Feature of Weekend Dance Set

WILL BE AT ARMORY

Pan-Hellenic Council Lives Up To Expectations

The Davidson Mid-Winter dances will begin at ten Friday evening to the strains of Freddy Martin's orchestra. The Pan-Hellenic Council has almost completed its plans for what they say will be the most enjoyable mid-winters in several years.

The three dances of the set will be held in the Charlotte Armory. The Friday night formal dance will take place from ten to two. The Saturday afternoon tea dance will begin at four and end at six-thirty, and the dance that night will be from eight-thirty until twelve. Both of the latter two will be informal. As has been the custom in the past there will be a figure formed just before the intermission at the Friday night dance. This year however each fraternity will be represented in the figure, not only by the council members and their dates, but also by one other member from each fraternity with his date. The following men will be in the figure: Phi Gamma Delta, Cokey Branton and J. B. Goslen; Kappa Sigma, Charley Thompson and one other not selected by the time this went to the press; Sigma Alpha Epsilon, Tom Marchant and Lamont Brown; Beta Theta Pi, Bill Coffin and one other; Phi Delta Theta, John Partridge and Ab Price; Sigma Phi Epsilon, Wiley Bradley and Martin Barnett; Pi Kappa Phi, Herb Willis and Mills Taylor; Pi Kappa Alpha, Bill Archer and Charley Hamrick; Kappa Alpha, Keg Warris and Tom Downie. Practices for the occasion will be held throughout this week.

Freddy Martin's orchestra has just finished an engagement at the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel in New York, and will open soon at the Aragon Ballroom in Chicago. Features of the orchestra are the Martinettes trio; Elmer and Feldcamp, baritone; Terry Shand, blues singer and Freddy Martin himself, playing the saxophone. Novelties and other features have been arranged for the two Saturday dances. Eddie Schaaci, drummer and comic singer, will perform at these occasions.

Practically every fraternity on the campus is planning a party or banquet to add to the revelry of the occasion. Comment among the students seems to point to the fact that all are looking forward to a gala weekend, and many dates have been invited to join in the festivities.

Cantor Offers Education in Contest To Award Four Year $5,000 Scholarship For Letters on Keeping Out of War

Eddie Cantor will award a four-year scholarship and complete maintenance at any American college or university to the person who writes, in the opinion of a distinguished board of judges, the best letter on the subject “How Can America Stay Out of War?” Cantor has set aside a fund of $5,000 for this purpose. The subject of the competition was suggested by Newton D. Baker, former Secretary of War, with whom Cantor had discussed his proposal. The judging body comprises four noted American educators—each the president of a prominent educational institution. They are: Robert M. Hutchins, of the University of Chicago; Frederick Bertrand Robinson, College of the City of New York; Ray Lyman Wilbur, of Leland Stanford University; and Henry Noble MacCracken of Vassar College. All have heartily endorsed this project in the interests of peace and education. Their decision will be final.

The Eddie Cantor scholarship fund is the sum of $5,000.

RANSOM GIVES LECTURE UPON FINE SOUTH

BY GERALD JORDAN

COMING FEB.

Pastor of Centenary Methodist Church, Winston-Salem, To Preach

Speaker Studied and Taught at Home and Abroad; Was Rhodes Scholar

WRITES POETRY, PROSE

COACH UNGER RESIGNS AS MAT SQUAD TUTOR

Popular Coach Closes Career Here; Has Held Post For Seven Years

PRODUCES CHAMPIONS

Student Body Shocked, Saddened By His Decision

Nine Davidson Seniors Named For Who’s Who In American Colleges

Nine members of the Senior Class were selected to be in the Who’s Who among Students in American Universities and Colleges. All of these men are members of ODK. The men are: Martin Barnett, Lawton Brown, “Flip” Cathey, Carlton Chapman, Dan Grutin, Bob Lindsay, Prosser Morrow, and Cole Windham.

Martin Barnett is a member of Sigma Phi Epsilon, social fraternity. Omicron Delta Kappa, Seab-Blade, Gamma Sigma Epsilon, June 18. — torium fast night on the subject, “A Southern Policy to Fit Southern Prejudices.” University in Atlanta, Ga. where he received a Ph.D. at Yale University, from which he received an A.M. (He was very active in college life, being a member of O.D.K., K.O.A., and many others.) He is also Editor-in-Chief of “Quins” and President of the Publications Board. Unger is a graduate of Indiana University where he was for two years on the Indiana football team and in his final year at that institution, champion (in the unlimited class) of the Western Conference. Soon after his graduation he was dedicated to the pastorate of the Methodist Church in Black Mountain, N.C. Rev. Jordan has served as pastor in many North Carolina cities — namely, Asheville, Greensboro, Charlotte, and High Point. Since 1933 he has been pastor of the Centenary Church in Winston-Salem. Besides being a very popular and well-known preacher, Rev. Jordan is the author of many books and contributes articles to numerous Christian Magazines.

Professor Ransom was born in Pulaski, Tennessee, and attended Vanderbilt, where he earned his B.A. degree. He later attended Christ College at Oxford as a Rhodes Scholar, 1910-1913, and was there also awarded a D.A. (He served as an instructor at the Saumur Art School in France, and spent two years as a Guggenheim Fellow for creative writing, and as a member of the staff of University College of the South West, at Exeter.) Mr. Ransom, a Phi Beta Kappa and a member of Kappa Sigma social fraternity, has published a number of books, both poetry and prose. A list of these follows: Poems About God, 1919; Chills and Fever (verse), 1924; Grace After Meat (prose), 1924; Two Gentlemen in Bonds (verse), 1926; God Without Thunder, 1930. He also contributed a chapter to the group-book, “I’ll Take My Stand,” which is studied in the economics courses at Davidson.

NEW STUDENTS ENROLLED FOR NEXT SEMESTER

Four Military Men Will Initiate C. L. Mann Joins Scabbard and Blade Last Saturday

The members of Scabbard and Blade, honorary military group, will hold their semi-annual initiation at seven o'clock Wednesday night, January 29, on the second floor of Chambers Building. New students have enrolled for the coming semester in the office of Mr. Hengeveld, the registrar. These students are G. D. Cassell, Jr. from Max Meadows, Va.; W. D. McIlwaine from Fayetteville; C. Sears from Barium Springs, and W. B. Young from Charlotte. All of these students have attended Davidson in past years. There are also two special students enrolled for the coming semester.

Lamont Brown is a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon, Social Fraternity, and Omicron Delta Kappa. He is Editor-in-Chief of “The Davidsonian” and a member of Scabbard and Blade. “Flip” Cathey is a member of Phi Kappa Alpha, Social Fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and “D” Club. He is President of the Athletic Association. Briton is a member of social fraternity, Phi Gamma Delta. Coach Unger was a member of the Mississippi State football and wrestling teams under the tutelage of Coach Coser, which have had unusually good records, winning the state championship last year. With such stars as Conway, Myer, and Blackwelder, they went to the national meet in Chicago. In an interview with Coach Unger, he stated, “I have very much enjoyed the stay at Davidson and my friends here. I am most seriously considering two other positions, one a coaching job, another in business.” When asked if he thought wrestling would be continued after this season, and if so, under whose direction, he stated, “I don’t know for sure if wrestling will be continued here next year, but if it is resumed, Parks Harrison seems to be the man in line for the position.” 

Former Rules Exposed

Our college regulations of today seem almost liberal when compared with some of the rules found in an old handbook of the laws of Davidson College for 1872. In these ‘good old days,’ it seems that the boys were actually expected to study. The hours of study shall be from the time of morning prayer till 12 o'clock noon and from 2 to 5 P.M. and again from the ringing of the evening study bell till breakfast next morning; during which time all students are to remain in their rooms unless called away to some college duty or urgent necessity. They did not play football, and athletics and student theatricals of any sort were forbidden. “Any student convicted of sending or receiving a challenge to fight a duel, or carrying a challenge, or of being second in a duel, shall be immediately dismissed by the Faculty, and, as soon as practicable, expelled by the Board of Trustees.”

Every day was Sunday then, and Sunday School ethics were strictly upheld. “No student shall make any festive entertainment within the precincts of the College or elsewhere, or contribute to it, without permission from the faculty.” “No student shall play at cards, dice, or other immoral games, or buy, keep, or use in his room, or elsewhere, intoxicating liquors. Nor shall he keep, or have kept for him, a gun, pistol, dirk, or other deadly weapon, or visit tippling houses or other places of ill fame, or use profane language, or be guilty of any other grossly immoral conduct whatever, under severe penalties.” “It shall be the duty of the professors to watch over the morals and manners of the students.” 

Poor fellows! When they entered school they were in for it for four years. “No student shall leave the college grounds to visit his home or any other place whatever, or go beyond the limits of an ordinary walk for recreation, without permission from the faculty.” Whenever an absence from recitation is involved, the student must exhibit to the faculty a special written request from his parents or guardian. “The students shall be responsible to the faculty for their conduct in the town of Davidson and elsewhere.”

The Rhodes Scholarship elections in 1935 indicate that the small college of high standards is a very good place in which to qualify. In analyzing the results of the elections of 1935 and 1930, The Davidsonian points out that when the district plan of appointing Rhodes Scholars was substituted for the state plan, it was feared by many that the new arrangement would result in the concentration of appointments in the densely populated northeastern states and in the richest and most powerful universities. Actually, the opposite has happened. At the first election conducted according to the new plan, four small colleges, including Davidson, were successful (Dean Rusk, 1929). 1930 was perhaps the banner year for small colleges, nine, with enrollments ranging from 325 to 857, being represented. 1935 was again a triumphant year for the small colleges of distinctive type. Of the thirty-two Rhodes Scholars appointed in December, eight were from colleges with less than 500 students. Certain other individual institutions have been singularly successful in placing Rhodes Scholars, notably Harvard, Yale, Princeton, Dartmouth, the University of Virginia, and the United States Military and Naval Academies. This year, three of these institutions, Princeton, Yale, and the University of Virginia, furnished two scholars each of the 1935 election. During the thirty-one years since the founding of the Rhodes Scholarships, Davidson College has won seven, an average of one every four or five years. The distribution has been somewhat uneven: two in 1907, and one each in 1919, 1923, 1926, 1930, and 1935.