Page Four THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 2, 1936

WILDCATS SOUNDLY TROUNCE HAPLESS DEACONS

SPORTS AFIELD

CROSS COUNTRY TEAM WINS FROM MERCER

With the final whistle on Thanksgiving Day, twelve Davidson seniors ended their final college gridiron careers. These stars and some reserves have given a good part of their autumns to sport. But the hardest grind is the winter practice period when certain men get real experience to blossom in the fall. The smashing victory over Wake Forest in that unequalled Turkey Day classic was a fitting finish to the brilliant record hung up by the hard-fighting Wildcat gridders this season. As tough as crackers, those Cats were out to win and they just wouldn't be stopped. Midway through the week, Wake supporters were offering 12 points. But the happy spirits weren't to be found on the Deacon campus Thursday night.

PHI GAMS WIN IN VOLLEYBALL

Kiesewetter and Reid Are Stars as Kappa Sigs Are Defeated

MAINTAIN TROPHY LEAD

Phi Gams Have Captured Two in a Row

"TEENY" LAFFERTY BACK

Parker Ed Is Valuable Backfield Man

The Wildcats annexed the crown by third scoring Deacons. Captain perhaps the career. Heading Barium Stars The Barium trio closed the door on Wake's last hope by virtue of their great defensive play. Missed when next year rolls around will be John Lee, a man who loves to “smash back in there,” Jim Johnston, the smartest guard to wear the Red and Black for several years, and sturdy Frail Purdy (he may be back). I should say foursome, for Charlie Sears has added more color and done as much for the spirit of the team as any other man. That classic pair of roommates, Joe Hunter and Tom Corbin, speak for themselves. Joe is a leading contender for All-State and All-Southern honors, while Corbin should (I hope) win the Millis blocking trophy. Tom Thurston, Lock Vass, and Heman Clark were not regulars, but they were out there fighting for a chance every day for four years. The much cheered and jeered Centennial class has a right to be proud of the name the team has made for itself. Our hats are off to you!

It seems everyone is talking of the natty appearance of the band and the colorless uniforms of the football team. Just remember it’s what's on the inside that counts. If we had the financial means of our neighbor institutions, we'd have as neat togs as anyone, but, lacking this, our teams make up for it with the type of ball they play. Tip: Davidson will sport new uniforms next fall. Do you remember that game with V.M.I.? Who could forget it?

Near Championships

Kappa Sigs in the final match, two points tucked in the winner. For the virtue of victory, KA's and team. The Sig bye in the SAE's and Sedo.

ARMFIELD, LAFFERTY

Kitchin, but the (Continued from Page 1)

"The Running Hoole" Teeny Lafferty, yet has every opportunity to be the greatest player ever to don the Red and Black. Captain Dick Johnson turned in a wonderful performance for his last game as leader of the Wildcats. Injuries kept his name out of the headlines, but he stopped every play. Williams stopped everything that even came near. Countless other plays persistently broke through. John Lee played his last game, but will be a mainstay on next year's team. Fred Dennis and Tom Corbin played exceptionally well, especially Dennis shining on defense. Yet, if you look, you will discover those same Cadets boasting a record of only two conference defeats (Davidson and V.P.I.). It’s a goofy season, truly, isn’t it?

King Football has passed—a wonderful season, but basketball and wrestling are coming, so continue your support for these teams. They're as much Wildcats as any other teams.

DAVIDSONIAN ALL-STATE TEAM

First Team
Position
End TALIAFERRO (Duke)
Tackle HUNTER (Davidson)
Guard JOHNSON (Davidson)
Center HILL (Duke)
Guard REGDON (N.C. S.)
Tackle BRUNANSKY (Duke)
End BERSHAK (U.N.C.)
Back PARKER (Duke)
Back LAFFERTY (Davidson)
Back ARMFIELD (Davidson)
Back DANIEL (Wake Forest)

This is the annual selection of The Davidsonian Sports Department for the All-State football team:

HONORABLE MENTION: Ends—Shore (W.F.); Cara (N.C.S.); Lee (Davidson); Liana (Duke); Tackles—Trimpey (U.N.C.); Wagner (W.F.); Helms (N.C.S.); Bugg (N.C.S.); Guards—Rodgers (W.F.); McIver (U.N.C.); Centers—Purdy (Davidson); Mumford (W.F.); Avery (U.N.C.); Backs—Dennis and Corbin (Davidson); Berlinski, Entwistle, and Ryneska (N.C.S.); Little, Watson, and Ditt (U.N.C.); O’Mara, Gardner, and Smith (Duke).

Second Team
End CARDWELL (Duke)
Tackle WILLIAMS (Davidson)
Guard BARTOS (U.N.C.)
Center POWER (Duke)
Guard MARKS (N.C.S.)
Tackle JOHNSTON (Davidson)
End BUCK (U.N.C.)
Back HACKNEY (Duke)
Back TIPTON (Duke)
Back BURNETTE (U.N.C.)
Back HUTCHINS (U.N.C.)

ARMFIELD LEADS SCORERS

Ed Armfield, powerful Wildcat back, carried the Southern Conference scoring honors this season by pushing over nine touchdowns for a total of 54 points. Figures recently disclosed Armfield nosed out Ace Parker, stalwart Duke backfield man mentioned for a berth on the mythical All-American, who came up in second place with 52 points to his credit. Teeny Lafferty, stellar Davidson ball-carrier, broke Johnny Mackorell's record for yardage gained during the season by covering over a thousand yards. He was responsible for four more Wildcat scores. Charlie Sears and Fred Dennis each chalked up three touchdowns; Williams and Ned, fast flankmen, were responsible for two each. Jim Johnston scored points this season and Iverson, Wildcat kicker, converted for two touchdowns, while clearing the path for many of the spectacular runs made by the Wildcats. Hunter, Purdy, and Johnston played some of the best football of the year. Johnston's specially educated toe has added many points to the Davidson scores this year while little Frank has set many of the biggest and best centers back on their ears all season. Warden and Graham stood out in line play throughout the game.

Fine Coaching Job

All season the football critics have been raving about the wonderful coaching job done by the Davidson coaches. This was shown more plainly than ever on Thanksgiving Day as the team played as a unit featuring hard blocking and vicious tackling, but all clean football and good sportsmanship.

BASKETEERS OPEN SEASON AT HOME

Twenty Players on Roster as Team Starts Scrimmaging

The Wildcat basketball team started taking things seriously Monday with two stiff scrimmage sessions. Coaches Chet Chapman, Shepherd, and Norman worked with the squad in the absence of Coach Flake Laird. Twenty players are now on the roster which will furnish the team that works against North Carolina this season. The fire opposing teams from South Carolina, Catawba, Unique Furniture, Winston-Salem, Charlotte, Duke, and others will be faced. The schedule includes:

Dec. 16, Catawba here; Dec. 20, Duke at Durham; Jan. 9, State at Chapel Hill; Jan. 16, State here; Feb. 1, Carolina here; Feb. 2, Carolina at Chapel Hill; Feb. 6, Citadel at Charleston; Feb. 8, College of Charleston here; Feb. 10, State at Raleigh; Feb. 12, Wake Forest at Wake Forest.Feb. 1, Citadel here; Feb. 17, College of Charleston here; Feb. 20, Wake Forest here; Feb. 22, Catawba at Salisbury; Feb. 23, Lenoir Rhyne here; and Feb. 27, Erskine here. The Southern Conference tournament will take place in March and should Davidson have a favorable season record, they would in all probability be asked to participate.

DUKE GRIDDERS END SUCCESSFUL SEASON
Win Big Five and Southern Conference Titles

The Duke Blue Devils ended their season with a hard-earned 13 to 0 victory over a fighting N.C. State team, thereby clinching the championship of the North Carolina Big Five. Duke's card showed four wins and no defeats in Big Five competition. The University of North Carolina lost only to Duke and grabbed second position in the state race with three wins and one defeat. Davidson turned in wins over N.C. State and Wake Forest to surprise the scribes and take third place. Wake Forest smashed N.C. State, 9-0, and took fourth place in the race, thereby dumping the Wolfpack into the cellar.

Duke showed amazing defensive strength by holding its North Carolina opponents to a total of one touchdown, while running up 73 points themselves. All North Carolina teams showed powerful offenses, with the exception of North Carolina State, who were able to ring up but ten points during the season of four games.

LOCAL HI-Y GROUP TO ATTEND CONFERENCE
(Continued from Page 3)

The program is planned to help delegates understand and accept the principles of Jesus as a working philosophy of their lives; to aid in beginning the quest for genuine friendships, and to help discover ways by which they may make the largest investment of their lives. The following boys will attend: Ed Jackson, President; Kenneth Foreman, Secretary; Bill Wood, Treasurer; George Withers, Thomas Withers, Robert Church, Marion Cole, Price Gwynn, Hank Crane, Fred Smith, Alumni Secretary.

WRESTLERS PREP FOR INTRAMURAL TOURNEY: TO FURNISH MATERIAL FOR VARSITY
(Continued from Page 3)

Watts Tea Hounds Prepare For Rats

The football elevens of Watts and Georgia are undergoing practice for their annual football game. This year, for the first time, the game will be under the supervision of the Athletic Committee. The committee offered this year to lend the athletic uniforms to the members of the teams of the two dormitories, provided they took the ball game seriously, and no water fights preceded it, as had been the case in previous years. The teams of the two dormitories are to be captained by Johnson of Georgia and Sellars of Watts.

Last year the game between the so-called Georgia “Rats” and Watts “Tea Hounds” ended in a scoreless tie. Lafferty will coach Watts, while the Georgia coaching staff consists of Johnson, Armfield, Corbin, Hunter, Williams, Nicholson, and Matthis.

Before Observer Poll Closes Tomorrow

Don't fail to send in your All-State football selection to The Charlotte Observer. You have until tomorrow night to get it in the mail. Be sure to vote for your favorite player in the state. This award is not for the best player in the state but for the one who has been of most value to his team. North Carolina teams compare favorably with those of any other state in the nation as proved by the fact that during the last five years, three North Carolina men have been All-Americans. Therefore, there are plenty of strong combinations for you to choose from. Back Dick Johnson, Joe Hunter, Bailey Williams, and the rest.

GRAPPLERS PREPARING FOR FOUR-DAY TRIP

Davidson's grapplers are preparing for a four-day trip west to Tennessee, where they will have a match with the University of Tennessee at Knoxville and meet the strong Maryville College grapplers at Maryville, Tenn.

SPONSORS

The last group of sponsors for Davidson athletic teams appeared on Richardson Field at the Turkey Day classic between the Wildcats and the Wake Forest Deacons. The idea of having sponsors for games was due to the work of Fred Smith.

I lost my shirt... and found it at P. H. HANES KNITTING CO., Winston-Salem, N.C.

HARRIERS BEAT MERCER: WALKER WINS

Walker Breezes Five Miles in 28.2 Minutes as Team Wins By 21 to 34

KUYKENDALL IS CAPTAIN

Senior Leads Team in Last Meet of Season

The Wildcat cross-country team defeated the Mercer University harriers here last Saturday by a score of 21-34. This was the last meet of the season for the Wildcat team. “Boo” Walker came in first for Davidson, running the five-mile course in 28 minutes, 12.6 seconds. Parcell came in second for Davidson after having led during the first mile. The order in which the runners came in was as follows: Walker (D), first; Parcell (D), second; Marshall (M), third; Telford (D), fourth; Blanks (D), fifth; Brown (M), sixth; Kuykendall (D), seventh; Dixon (M), eighth; Yates (D), ninth; Wallace (M), tenth; Poe (D), eleventh; Feuchtenberger (M), twelfth; Lawrence (D), thirteenth.

The Mercer cross-country team had previously defeated the University of Georgia the week before last by a score of 23-34. Harry Kuykendall was elected captain of the 1936 Wildcat team at a recent meeting. Kuykendall is running cross-country for the first time this year, and his running has improved greatly, says Coach Whittle. Kuykendall is a member of the Senior Class, from Greensboro.

SHORT STORY

The automobile approached the corner at 80 miles an hour. You can't be down in the mouth and up on your toes at the same time.

CATCHING COLD?

At the first warning sneeze—quick—a few drops up each nostril. Its timely use helps prevent many colds.

It has that grand new sleeve, broad bold collar and lapels... It has great length and a wide sweep to the skirt... plus a “full tie belt.” A swagger, west-coast style hit by Under-Grad clothes. $27.50

TATE-BROWN CO.
College Shop Third Floor