© THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 8, 1936

John Lee Tops Former Pole Vaulting Records

John B. Lee, '36, set another Davidson record for the pole vault on March 25, at Furman University, when he
topped his previous jump of 12 feet 2 inches, made last spring, with a vault of 12 feet 5 inches.
Lee won the event at the Greenville, S.C., meet at 11 feet, and continued jumping until he reached the new
mark. Davidson has had Lee for a pole vaulter since his freshman year. He made his numerals then and had
his letter in track both sophomore and junior years. While he has been on the varsity team, he has repeatedly
bettered former records. Last year an injured ankle early in the season hindered his work, but he had gained the
record of 12 feet 2 inches at the Charlotte Invitation Meet previously. Through high school and college competition, Lee has
constantly improved. His chances this year are excellent, and he may go to the Penn Relays. The state record, which
stands at 12 feet 8 inches, is only three inches higher than Lee's jump at Furman. The world record in
the pole vault is held by Graber at 14 feet 4 3/8 inches.

McCLURE SPEAKS AT SUNDAY VESPERS

Last Sunday evening the Davidson students heard the Reverend A. B. McClure, secretary of the Davidson Y. M. C. A.,
speaking at the vesper service. The Scripture reading was the fifth chapter of Galatians, beginning with the thirteenth verse, and
the text was taken from the twenty-second and twenty-third verses: “But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace,
long-suffering, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, meekness, self-control.” The speaker opened his sermon by stating two questions that are commonly asked today
by non-Christians. One is “What difference does religion make?” and the other, “Can religion make any difference?” These are fair
questions because the people who ask them look at those who profess to be followers of Christ and can see
nothing that is Christ-like in their lives. The world is full of corruption and the Church is not doing as
much to relieve this as it should. In the Scripture lesson, there are two word portraits—one of a Christian and
the other of a man without a religion. The best answer we can give to these two pertinent questions is
to model ourselves after the one described in the text and try to acquire the nine virtues that are named
here. Christians are related to God and through this relationship come love, joy, and peace. In dealing with our fellow
men, we learn long-suffering, kindness, and goodness. But if our actions do not ring true, we are painting a cartoon
instead of a portrait. Faithfulness, meekness, and self-control will come through our relations with our inner selves. Each of us
is painting a picture of his own life. What will yours look like?

CINEMATIC COMMENTS

Wednesday, April 8
Unguarded Hour
A newly released, pass-away-the-time picture which comes here straight from Hollywood. An excellent cast includes Lewis Stone, Roland Young, Jessie
Ralph, and Dudley Digges.

Thursday-Friday, April 9-10
Country Doctor
The fight of a country doctor for a needed hospital and how five babies brought his reward. This is the
first full-length film featuring those amazing young ladies from Canada, the Dionne quintuplets. Jean Hersholt simply and sincerely plays the
part of Dr. Dafoe.

Saturday, April 11
Three Godfathers
One of the best westerns of the year and largely due to the splendid acting of Lewis Stone, Chester Morris,
and Walter Brennan, a trio of desert rats who go in for bank robbing and find themselves the protectors of
a tiny orphan, Jean Kirchner.

Y.M.C.A. Deputations Sent To Charlotte ‘Y’

Joe Calvin and John Mawhinney were sent to the Charlotte Y. M. C. A. by the local “Y” to speak
to meetings of two groups of boys there last Sunday afternoon. This was one of the regular Sunday deputations of
which Wade Boggs is in charge. The meetings are held weekly at the “Y,” one for boys aged from about
eight to thirteen years, and the other for boys from about fourteen to eighteen years. Calvin spoke to the younger
group from the parable of the talents, stressing the fact that success cannot be attained by shortcuts. Mawhinney talked to
the older group on the subject of “Leisure Time,” discussing the dangers of misuse of time, ways in which time
should not be used, and ways in which it should be used.

Monday-Tuesday, April 13-14
Message To Garcia
Three great stars, Wallace Beery, Barbara Stanwyck, and John Boles, united in Danger, Laughter, and Love in a glorious and
courageous venture that decided the fate of three nations.

Easter Program To Be Given At Vespers

The Vesper Service for next Sunday, April 12, will be a special Easter service under the supervision of the Y.
M. C. A. The Davidson musical organizations will conduct the services. The entire program will be special music. The band,
glee club, and salon orchestra will all give musical selections appropriate to Easter. They will be directed by Mr. Pfohl.
The stage will be decorated very beautifully for the services. A large crowd is expected as the public is invited.

Gwynn Makes Two Speeches

Dr. Price Gwynn made two trips on Friday and Saturday of last week, one to Banner Elk and one to
Greensboro. He delivered an address to the students of Lees-McRae College on the subject of youth in our religion and
preparation for marriage. Dr. Gwynn was one of the most noted of the guest speakers at this, their annual Personality
Conference. He was also one of the guest speakers at the School of Marriage held in the First Presbyterian Church
of Greensboro. This conference was called together by the pastor of the church, Reverend Charles F. Myers, for the purpose
of discussing marriage and marriage relations. All plans were made by Dr. Myers and the program was well carried out.

President Lingle will spend the greater part of the approaching summer in preparing for Davidson's great Centennial movement. He will
endeavor throughout the summer months to raise the necessary funds to make the century celebration a success. The president has
declined all invitations except one. In July he will attend a meeting of the Association of Southern Presbyterian Colleges which
is to be held at Montreat. This meeting will last for a week. In the early part of August, Dr.
Lingle will again leave the campus. This time he plans to attend a week of religious conferences at Massanetta in
Virginia.

Tornado Hits Carolina City Unexpectedly

Greensboro Damaged Last Thursday Night By Freak Twister

THIRTEEN LIVES LOST

A tornado caught the citizens of Greensboro totally unprepared last Thursday night as it swept through the main sections of
the city in a path two miles wide and nearly two miles long, causing 13 deaths and damage amounting to
over $2,250,000. Hospitals were taxed to capacity after the twister. Broken arms and legs were numerous and there were 100
patients still in the hospitals 24 hours after the incident. The tornado seemed almost in harmony with a notoriously freakish
winter season in which floods caused untold death and destruction, heavy rains threw a damper on the usually gay early
spring, and natives of South Carolina saw snow as late as April 3. The morning after the tornado found citizens
of Greensboro, apparently undaunted by their misfortune, out repairing their wrecked homes. Trucks and tractors were being used to haul
off the debris and wreckage; hundreds of unemployed were put to work cleaning up the city. After the storm, a
crowd conservatively estimated at 10,000, strangely silent, thronged the area of destruction. In spite of the grim tragedy of the
storm, nature played some curious pranks. Miss Beulah Lawrence, of 828 Elm Street, lived to tell the unusual tale of
having been lifted by the tornado and carried two blocks with only a few bruises to have made the journey
unpleasant. Robert Withers, a negro, was walking with his nephew when the storm started. He ran with his nephew into
the house of a friend and bolted the door, then the three lay down on the floor as the wind
neatly removed the roof from the house and left them uninjured. A woman while driving an automobile on South Elm
Street had the motor of her car crushed by falling bricks and was unhurt. One hotel had the wall on
one side completely removed yet left all the furnishings of the hotel rooms on that side completely intact. Ralph Walker
of Bane Street rushed out into the wind to rescue his dog. He was unable to get back into the
building as the strong wind held the door firmly; he and the dog stood pressed close to the wall until
the storm was over. J. H. Harvey, a bus driver, reported that the front end of his bus was wrecked
by a roof sailing through the air.

Among the Greeks

BETA THETA PI—The installation of officers was held at the meeting last Thursday night. Bob Atwater went to Winston-Salem this
past weekend. The brothers enjoyed a feed Sunday night.

PI KAPPA ALPHA—Bill Morton spent the weekend with "Sky" Cline at his home in Concord. Elizabeth Green and Derrell Fant
of Anderson, S.C., and Eleanor Newman, Nancy Cohenheur, and Margaret Woodson of Salisbury visited the chapter this past weekend.

KAPPA ALPHA—Brother Charlie Hines and Pledge Brother Taylor went to Greensboro for this past weekend. Harvey McConnell attended the Leap
Year dances at Brenau.

PHI KAPPA PHI—The following girls were present at the party held Wednesday night before the spring holidays: Betty Beasley, Dorothy
Lois Croom, Jean Went, Kitty Graham, Hannah Knolton, Katherine Lorance, Madeline McGinnis, Sarah Metz, Mary Whitmore, Molly Mullins, Mary Lib
Moore, Alice Reeves, Elyse Reeves, Libby Rhett, Bettie Lou Thompson, Marjorie Wakefield, Lucila Wiley, and Virginia Wiley.

SIGMA ALPHA EPSILON—Lamont Brown and Ken Fryfogle went to Salisbury for this past weekend. Henry Eve spent the weekend in
Winston-Salem. The feed was held last Sunday night.

KAPPA SIGMA—Brothers Carl Carlson, Joe Dees, and Chubby King went to Greensboro for the weekend. The chapter enjoyed a feed
this past Sunday night.

PHI GAMMA DELTA—Brother Bill Robt, Field Secretary, has been visiting the chapter for the past few days. A feed was
held Monday night in his honor. Brothers O. Cooke, F. Ganier, Jim Dorsett, Gene Vogler, and Tyler Port returned from
their holiday fling in New York, and A. Cooke, Biddy Branton, and Hal Overton returned from their visit to Daytona
Beach, Florida.

PHI DELTA THETA—Brothers Allen and Griffin went to the Leap Year dances held at Brenau this past weekend. Ab Price
went to Lynchburg over the weekend. A feed was held Sunday night.

SIGMA PI EPSILON—Plans are being completed for the annual banquet and entertainment to be held at S. & W. on
April 11.

(Continued from Page 3)

J. H. Harvey, a bus driver, reported that the front end of his bus was wrecked by a roof sailing
through the air.The air and a huge timber crushed the steering wheel but left him unhurt. The biographies include “Christ
and His Times,” by Dallas Lore Sharp. This book is an uncritical account of the life of Christ by the
author of that charming book “Romances from the Old Testament.” The neutrality period of 1914-15 is portrayed in the fifth
volume of “Life and Letters of Woodrow Wilson.” This book is written by Ray Stannard Baker, whom the War President
designated to write the series.

A study of Caruso by his wife and her sister is found in the book entitled “Wings of Song.” It
presents a comparatively unknown side of Caruso to the readers, the human side. Paul de Kruif adds another triumph to
his list of best sellers in “Why Keep Them Alive?” Paul de Kruif, the author of “Microbe Hunters,” “Men Against
Death,” and “Hunger Fighters,” describes in his latest vivid book the story of those who cannot obtain the advantages which
science has made possible in the field of medicine. It is a powerful portrayal of the suffering which is taking
place all over America which so few people are aware of.

Dallas Herring Makes Hobby of Etymologizing Monickers

What does your name mean? What was its origin? We have found a man here on the campus who can
answer those two questions if your name is one of the large number that he has traced down in the
last few years. Dallas Herring, a member of the notorious class of ‘38, has made a hobby of collecting interesting
names and tracing them back to their origin. Recently Herring compiled a paper in which he has shown the origin
and meaning of some of the more common surnames in this country. He has found in his quite extensive research
that the use of surnames did not become general in England until the fourteenth century, less than six hundred years
ago.

“Richard,” he says, “was a popular name for individuals, and so became one of the leading surnames of the day.
To this one name can be traced Richards, Richardson, Prichard, Dicks, Dix, Dickson, Hicks, Hickson, Higgins, Hickens, etc. Prichard is
a Welsh name meaning ‘son of Richard,’ a corruption of Ap Richard (P. Richard) is the common form of this
corruption.”

He has discovered in his study that many of the common prefixes and suffixes, such as Mac- in the Scotch,
O’- in the Irish, Map- in the Welsh, -son in the English, all mean “son” and probably indicate a common
progenitor. Then there are other suffixes indicating the residence of the bearer or possibly his occupation.

WOMEN WANT MATCH WITH D.C. RIFLE TEAM

It has been apparent in the past years that the days when men were men have gone forever, but the
crowning disgrace in the softening of the male species was reserved for our own Davidson College. The local Davidson College
Rifle Team has been challenged to a match by the women's team of the University of Hawaii. Even though we
have had such feminine activities as the drinking of tea in the parlor of Watts, the old Alma Mater has
never been regarded as a “Female Institution.” Judging from the size of the scores handed in by these ladies of
Hawaii, they must be equally as good at firing a rifle as they are at dancing the Honolulu shimmy. The
high five for the week beginning March 14th were:

Phyllis Van Orden 99
Harue Tofakujf 98
Lydia Chun 97
Charlotte Wong 97
Sucko Matsuedo 97

TOTAL high five 488

At least there are few universities which can boast such a conglomeration of nationalities on one team of five as
this. If we can get a rifle match, we should be able to arrange a bridge tournament, and while in
a risque mood we might even suggest a game of post office.

STUDENTS SEE MOVIES

First the ship, “Virginia,” was seen launched, sailing from New York. There were views of the oil-burning boilers and turbo-electric
generators and the giant electric motors. There were scenes of life on board the ship and beautiful views of ocean
and sky. Going ashore at Havana was portrayed, and the trip through the Panama Canal, the great ship gliding through
the narrow waterway with palms and tropical verdure thick upon the banks. Los Angeles was then visited and the reel
closed with the landing in San Francisco.

The last film, also a sound reel, portrayed the construction of an eight-mile tunnel through the Cascades mountains, making the
great northwest more accessible to other parts of the United States and Canada. The tunnel was constructed from the two
ends at once, and also from several points in the middle, by sinking shafts from above. Scenes were shown of
the tunnel completed, of the first train going through.

NEVER BEFORE ON THE SCREEN! THUNDERBOLT DRAMA OF TODAY!

The greatest newspaper story since Five Star Final, written by Martin Mooney. Crashing drama, throbbing romance, in the TRUE “inside
story” of the numbers racket!

NOW Thru Sat., TONE with Madge Evans, Stuart Erwin, Joseph Calleia

All Seats on Tue. and Wed. Anytime 25¢

JAMES DUNN in “DON'T GET PERSONAL” with PINKY TOMLIN and SALLY EILERS

Dr. Henry L. Smith, Professor At Davidson, Makes Early Studies

For the past few days students who frequent the library have been seeing an interesting poster on the bulletin board
and have learned that the second X-ray in the United States was taken here at Davidson. On the poster is
a letter dated 1921 to Mr. Robert M. Lafferty from Dr. Henry Louis Smith who was at that time President
of Washington and Lee University. The letter tells a story of how Dr. Smith took an X-ray of a bullet
that was fired into the hand of a negro. The letter also gives a description of his saving the life
of a little girl. The child had swallowed a thimble and was having trouble with her throat. Five doctors were
called in on the case. Three of them said that the thimble had gone into her stomach and that she
was merely suffering from a throat disease. Another believed that the thimble was in her stomach and that poison from
it was causing the trouble. The other contended that the thimble was in her throat. By means of the X-ray,
Dr. Smith proved that the last was right and the girl was relieved by an operation. At the time Dr.
Smith was Professor of Physics at Davidson.

An article in the September 1926 issue of Radiology tells how, immediately after the discovery of Roentgen rays, three Davidson
Juniors slipped into the laboratory one night and took the second X-ray in the United States.

Masquers To Present Play

The Red and Black Masquers will present early in May as their last production this year the recent Broadway sensation,
“The Three-Cornered Moon,” by Gertrude Tonkonogy. It is a comedy in three acts filled with gags, humorous situations, and witticisms.
This play promises to surpass in wit and humor the other productions this season, “Whistling in the Dark,” and “The
Queen's Husband.” The cast which is being assembled for the production will be drawn from the membership of the Red
and Black Masquers and the young ladies of the community. It will be an all-star cast, all of its members
having appeared in other plays presented by this organization.
