THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 29, 1936

LEAPING LEAGUE CHEER MEN

Rising Juniors Will Try Out For Assistant Cheerleaders Soon

GYM ABILITY IS SOUGHT

Extensive Program For Coming Year Promised

Head Cheerleader Gene Vogler will issue the call for candidates for the positions of Junior Cheerleaders on his next season’s
crew sometime next week, he stated. The prospective jumping jacks will put in a few weeks of good practice this
spring and be in shape to handle the Class of 1940 when school opens next fall. Those eligible to compete
for these berths on the squad are members of the rising Junior Class only. Vogler announced that he would try
to build up a group of leaders who would specialize in cheerleading. He therefore urged all of those present sophomores
who have any ability in gymnastics to turn out and learn. Needless to say, he also wants those with a
good, healthy pair of lungs who are not afraid to exercise them.

Vogler prophesied that the Centennial year would hear yelling such as this old campus has not heard in all its
hundred years’ existence. These instigators of respiratory exertion will work themselves to a point of perfection in the next month
to be ready for the next year. This need is caused by the fact that the first three games of
the 1936 season will be played off the campus. The candidates will exhibit their powers of leadership at the early
pep meetings and will be selected on their ability.

(Continued on Page 6)

“Y” Cabinet To Attend Party

Annual House-Party Will Be Held at Montreat

A house-party is being planned for the retiring members of the Y.M.C.A. cabinet at Montreat, N.C., the week-end of May
8 and 9. This annual house-party will include R. B. Lindsay, C. Dickson, W. T. Bradley, A. W. Shuford, J.
M. Walker, P. Y. Harlan, C. B. Lewis, S. F. Marsh, J. S. McMullen, M. J. Barnett, and W. B.
Kiesewetter, their dates, and Mr. and Mrs. McClure. Professor and Mrs. Schenck have also been invited.

The group has been accorded the use of the Boggs and Walker cottages, and the ladies will be housed in
one, the gentlemen in the other. All will have to do their own cooking, except for the banquet to be
held at the Assembly Inn. The week-end will be featured by hiking and other relaxations. Leaving Friday afternoon, the group
will return on Sunday.

CINEMATIC COMMENTS

Wednesday, April 29
Remember Last Night
A wild party, hangovers, four murders, and a suicide are combined in an effort to imitate the “Thin Man.” It
has a swell cast that includes Edward Arnold, Robert Young, Constance Cummings, and Sally Eilers.

Thursday-Friday, April 30-May 1
Magnificent Obsession
Singularly moving story beautifully directed. Robert Young gives an excellent performance as a man who devotes his life to surgery
to woo a young widow, played by Irene Dunne.

Saturday, May 2
O'Malley of the Mounted
George O'Brien and Irene Ware are teamed together in a fighting picture of the great northwest. O'Brien gives a fast-moving,
two-fisted performance, always bringing in his man.

Monday-Tuesday, May 4-5
Connecticut Yankee
Will Rogers stars in a memorable production of “A Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur’s Court,” with many added features. A
sterling picture.

New Program On Air Friday

Broadcasts Will Feature Dance Music and Leading Song Hits

A new program of dance music and leading song hits will be aired every Friday at 9 o'clock (EST). Sponsored
by Chesterfield Cigarettes, the program will feature Andre Kostelanetz and his 45-piece dance orchestra, Kay Thompson and her Rhythm Singers,
and Lily Pons. Kostelanetz’s orchestra will play versatile fox trots, waltzes, rumbas, boleros, “swing” music, and novelties from the best
dance bands. Supporting Kostelanetz will be popular radio singers Kay Thompson, Heatherton, and romantic baritone Ray Heatherton.

Ohio State’s Air College has enrolled more than 7000 students in its two-year courses.

MARATHON DANCE

Order by the case (24 bottles) from your dealer. Keep it cold and ready to serve in your refrigerator.

JACKSON WILL BE PRESIDENT OF HI-Y GROUP

Shewmake, Foreman, and Wood Are Other Newly Elected Officers

DUTIES BEGIN IN FALL

Delegates Will Be Sent to National Congress

Ed Jackson was elected president of the Davidson Hi-Y Club at a meeting Wednesday night, March 22. He succeeds Lewis
Parker of Mt. Mourne. Other officers selected are Ed Shewmake, vice president; Kenneth Foreman, secretary; and Wood, treasurer. They will
replace the outgoing seniors John Withers, Jim Mooney, and Kenneth Pope, respectively.

The new officers will enter upon their duties at the beginning of next school year. All of them except Wood
are rising seniors. Jackson and Shewmake, as president and vice president, will be sent by the club to the First
National Hi-Y Congress at Berea, Ky., June 20-24. Branch Rickey, vice-president and business manager of the St. Louis Cardinals, will
be president of the congress. He is now actively associated with the Y.M.C.A. movement of St. Louis. Four hundred delegates
are expected to attend the conference. Expenses of the local delegates are being met by the sale of candy and
by the regular dues.

Besides the officers, the following old members will be in the club: George Withers, Thomas Withers, Robert Pharr, and Frank
Caldwell.

PHI GROUP HAS NEW OFFICERS

Johnson Inaugurated at Weekly Meeting of Philanthropic Society

The meeting of the Philanthropic Literary Society, Tuesday, April 21, was opened by an inaugural address by R. W. (Six)
Johnston, newly elected president of the society for the remainder of this year. R. H. Lindsey opened the program with
a humorous talk. He was followed by Ken McIntyre, who spoke on the life of the famous German composer, W.
A. Mozart. William Johnston then presented one of Mozart's compositions on the piano, “Turkish March.”

New officers were inaugurated and committees appointed. At the meeting last night, a debate was scheduled upon the subject, “Resolved:
That the United States should continue the use of capital punishment.” J. Y. Templeton and A. McQueen were to speak
for the affirmative while Lindsey and Brow were to defend the negative. A social meeting with a feed was held
in connection with the program.

Lehigh University has eliminated full-year courses and examinations in semester courses. Twenty-seven fraternities have abolished Hell Week.O'Brien—Josephine Hutchinson
A WARNER BROS. HIT
4 DAYS—MON-TUE-WED-THUR

FILM FEATURES “VETERANS OF FUTURE WARS”
Unusual Serio-Comic Organization Has Spread Throughout the Country
OVER 20,000 MEMBERS
Camera Crews Sent to Various College Campuses

By Associated Collegiate Press
New York City

The story of the organization and growth of the country’s latest phenomenon, the serio-comic Veterans of Future Wars, which has
spread from Princeton University to most campuses throughout the country, is dramatically told as one of the principal episodes of
the new March of Time on the screen released nationally April 17. Although scarcely two months old, the “Veterans,” brainchild
of Princeton undergraduates, an hilarious idea of preparedness and a bonus before they serve, has more than 20,000 members and
440 posts over the country.

The March of Time turns its camera first on the university and college graduate today, much as the father of
the “Veterans” saw the youth of 1914. They know the activities of the Veterans and their fights for bonuses. The
episode shows the start of the Veterans of Future Wars and the sensation it caused at Princeton. Soon it had
organized and opened posts. In the corridors of the national capitol appeared a new kind of lobbyist to buttonhole politicians
as veterans and bonus advocates.

The profiteer of future wars and other familiar groups are lampooned. Today, however, the undergraduate pranks have begun to take
on a deeper significance. As the Veterans of Future Wars incorporate in New Jersey and become a national youth movement,
the film points out that they are potentially capable of killing through ridicule many a warped idea that today menaces
the world.

Several student film and camera crews took part in making the episode. Crews were sent to the campuses of Princeton,
Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, New York University, and Sarah Lawrence College, New York, in order that every part of it might
be authentic. It is the first time that the March of Time has devoted an episode to the undergraduates, and
it will be of interest to students everywhere as a photographic record of their interests this past semester.

COMPARE THE NEWS
(Continued from page 2)

Fifteen Years Ago—
North Carolina Collegiate Association holds its annual meeting on the Davidson campus. Billy Green of Atlanta’s Men’s Club coming to
Davidson to give a series of talks. “Anne of Green Gables” is shown in the gymnasium.

Town Tattle
Mrs. C. M. Schampsey is entertaining her son and daughter-in-law, Mr. and Mrs. McDowell Richard, in Decatur.

NEW BOOKS RECEIVED FOR COLLEGE LIBRARY
Volumes on Christianity, Social Science, and Fiction Added to Be Used by Seniors Next Year

A number of new volumes have been placed on the library list during the past few weeks. The books include
works on social studies, mysticism, fiction, religion, happiness, and other topics.

Within a week or two, Quill and Blade, military fraternity, will extend bids to junior members who are worthy and
outstanding in military proficiency. The fraternity has forty senior members this year, and to be selected by the fraternity is
an honor, indeed. Each year a new body is created to function for the succeeding year.

JAPANESE ART SHOW
New Display Features Pictures of Orient

Long Island, N.Y., April 24—Mrs. W. S. McGill was hostess to the Twentieth Century Club Friday afternoon. Mrs. E. E.
Fulcher gave a paper on the art of Japanese work.

Dr. and Mrs. W. L. Porter had as their guests during the weekend Mrs. Yale Kirby, of New Haven, Conn.

The Winged Victory of Samothrace, one of the most powerful masterpieces of Hellenistic art, is the glorious portrayal of the
ambitious Caesar.

Gaudy Night, a spacious book by Dorothy L. Sayers, is imbued with excitement.

Mr. and Mrs. Cloyd entertained Thursday afternoon. Mr. Peterson, of West Point, N.Y., who has been visiting his father, Major
Peterson, has returned to his home.

The Golden Peacock, a novel set in the Orient, is a new addition to the library.

Out-of-town guests were Mrs. Cadwallader and Miss Carrie Lena Moffett.

Mr. K. J. Erwin and their guest, Mr. McHenry Brown, of East Pittsburgh, Pa., spent the weekend with relatives in
Graham.

Dr. and Mrs. T. T. Jones, of Durham, were visitors in Davidson Sunday. Mr. Jones is a Davidson alumnus.

The Golden Bough, a classic work on mythology, has been added to the library.

Latin-Greek Fraternity Initiates New Members
Gresham Mac, a distinguished service member, was initiated.

Japanese Work Exhibited
University of Wichita Offers Police Course

Wichita, Kan. (ACP)—Already a pioneer in police courses, the University of Wichita has announced a second class in police work
offered by the College of Liberal Arts and Science. The Wichita courses are planned to give a thorough knowledge, both
theoretical and practical, of police work. Similar courses are being taught at the University of Minnesota and the University of
Southern California.

CHINA'S MILITARY AIR BUREAU HAS WOMAN CHIEF
Nanking (C), (ACP)—The military air bureau of China has a new chief—a woman once known to her Wellesley classmates as
Soong Mei-ling, now the wife of Generalissimo Chiang Kai-shek, Premier and virtual dictator of China.

DAVIDSON OFF THE RECORD
King Texas (ACP)—Ten Texas students were asked what they thought of the “War to end war.” Two said they were
sure it was the “War to end war.”
