FAMOUS SIBERIAN SINGERS WILL APPEAR ON THIRD OF CONCERT SERIES

The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

STUDENT BODY LEADERS OPEN DRIVE TO GIVE FRESHMEN VOTE

VOL. XXIII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FEBRUARY 5, 1936 NUMBER 14

DEBATERS ARE TO ENCOURAGE BIG FORENSIC SEASON

Northern, Western, and Southern Trips Will Be Taken By Two-Man Teams

MINOR CHANGE IN TOPIC

This year’s varsity debating schedule, according to plans now being completed, will probably be the biggest in the history of the college. There will be, as usual, several home engagements and three teams making three rather extensive trips. These itinerant teams are composed as follows: Southern team, Wade Boggs and Tyler Port; Western team, Harold Sugg and Wilbur Edwards; and the Northern team, James Salango and Bob Stewart.

The topic for this year is: “Resolved, that Congress should have power to over-ride by a two-thirds majority any decision of the Supreme Court declaring a law unconstitutional.” The schedule for this year, worked out to date, is as follows:

Home engagements: February 27, Washington and Lee, Davidson affirmative; March 6, University of Richmond, Davidson affirmative; March 9, University of South Carolina, Davidson negative; and April 3, University of Maryland, Davidson negative.

Southern trip: February 25, University of South Carolina, Davidson affirmative; February 28, University of Florida, Davidson affirmative; February 29, University of Miami, Davidson negative; and March 2, Emory University, Davidson negative.

Western trip: March 10, Sewanee College, Davidson affirmative; March 13, Centre College, Davidson negative; March 16, University of West Virginia, Davidson affirmative; and March 19, Washington and Lee, Davidson negative.

Northern trip: March 25, Swarthmore, Davidson affirmative; March 26, University of Maryland, Davidson affirmative; April 2, University of Richmond, Davidson negative.

In the debates with the University of Richmond and Emory University, the topic has been slightly changed to read as follows: “Resolved, that Congress should have power to over-ride by a two-thirds majority any decision of the Supreme Court.”

Dr. C. K. Brown has been con- (Continued on Page 6)

DR. GERALD R. JORDAN PLACES EMPHASIS ON CHOOSING HIGH IDEALS

College Catalogue To Appear At Early Date

The Davidson College Catalogue is now in the hands of the printers and will be published about the middle of February. There are only a few changes from the catalogue of 1935. The change of most interest to students is the new numbering of courses. Students desiring copies of the catalogue can obtain them in the Registrar's office during the latter part of February.

Mr. Hengeveld has announced that the registration of the class of 1940 is now under way. Students knowing prospective freshmen are requested to turn in the names of these men so that they may be put on the College's mailing list.

D.C. Men In ‘Who's Who’

Second Edition of Collegiate Blue Book Comes Off Press In March

The second edition of the “Who's Who” of college students containing nine Davidson men will make its appearance sometime in March.

This book is being published under the direction of Pettus Randall, editor; Dr. George Lang, national president of O.D.K., and Dean Daleney Lancaster, Dean of men at the University of Alabama, as advisors. There will be thirteen hundred biographies of students from three hundred colleges and universities. The price of the book will be four dollars, and all of the money from the proceeds of the sale of the book will be spent in sending the pictures and write-ups of the students to newspapers and magazines. Only juniors, seniors, and graduate students are eligible for this honor. An unusual feature will be the including of the names of women students.

The first edition of this book appeared last May. The publishers and compilers hope to have all of the universities and colleges of importance in their next edition. After consultation with deans and student officers, the majority opinion seems to be that about one per cent of the student body should be accepted. To be nominated for this “Who's Who” the name of the prospect must be handed in by the dean of (Continued on Page 5)

Davidson Band Will Be Heard on CBS Network

Series of Programs to Go on Air Over Sixteen Southern Stations

With the song, O DAVIDSON, the Davidson College band returned to the air for another broadcast after an absence of several weeks. Featured on the regular Friday night program last week, were some popular selections by the college band.

Selections were: Jolly Coppersmith, a novelty number; Musical Farmyard by Stephen Foster; and a special arrangement of that old favorite, Old Black Joe.

In the “news from Davidson College,” it was announced that the college would begin, on next Wednesday night, from 7:15 to 7:30, a series of programs to be broadcast over the Dixie network of the Columbia Broadcasting System. These programs are to be heard over eighteen stations south of Charlotte, and are to be transmitted through the remote control facilities from the auditorium at Davidson, through Station WBT.

Physics Fraternity To Issue Bids Soon

The Sigma Pi Sigma national physics fraternity held its last meeting on Monday, February 3. The meeting was called to order by Kuhn, president of the chapter. Then followed the reading of two papers, one by Mur- entitled “Mercury Arc Rectifiers” and the other by Morrow about “The Uses of Photo-Electric Cells.” After this a general discussion was held centering on the latest achievements in the field of physics.

The fraternity plans to issue bids for membership in the near future. Membership is limited to those who have obtained high scholarship and shown due interest in this line of science. Its aims are to create interest in physics, encourage research, and provide an opportunity for professors and students to have discussions for the benefit of all. It was founded at Davidson in 1922 and has since attained nation-wide organization.

Winston Salem Methodist Shows Way to Avoid Disillusionment

HISTORY PROVES TEXT

Defeat Soured Crusaders; Fears For Misled Youth

Dr. Gerald R. Jordan, pastor of the Second Methodist Church of Winston Salem, was the preacher at the Vesper service on Feb. 2, his general topic being “The Choice of an Ideal.” The Rev. Jordan took his scripture from the Gospel of St. Matthew and based his sermon on parts of two verses: “Seek ye first the Kingdom of God,” and “Take up thy cross.”

Throughout his address the minister emphasized the necessity of choosing an ideal which will not, in the long run, betray one. He showed that often ideals play falsely with their owners, proving his statement with several examples. The Crusades, Rev. Jordan said, had a high ideal, but despite this the failure of the movement and the poor spirit of the leaders point out the fact that the ideal betrayed its holders.

In continuing this thought, Dr. Jordan quoted several other examples. C. I. Montague was disillusioned in the World War and became cynical because his ideal—the good that could come out of the war—turned against him. In Germany and Italy the people cling to what they believe to be the highest of ideals, yet it is undeniably true, Rev. Jordan stated, that they will eventually see that their ideal is not what they imagined it to be.

To keep from becoming disillusioned, the speaker continued, one must have the very highest of ideals, an ideal which will not betray one. “The only thing worthy of your soul is the soul of Christ; the only thing worthy of giving your whole soul to is the thing at the center of the personality and life of the Master.”

FAMOUS SIBERIAN SINGERS TO APPEAR

Native Russian Singers to Give Concert in Last Week of February

ABILITY HIGHLY PRAISED

Coming Concert Is Third in Davidson College Series

The Siberian Singers, under the direction of Nicholas Vasilieff, will present the third concert of the Davidson College series, on Tuesday, February 25, at 8 o’clock. This organization of native Russians will present a concert in costume.

According to The Lynchburg News: “Such an interpretation of Russian music as was given last night has rarely been accorded a Virginian audience—and was presented in brilliant costumes. Solos and choral numbers alike were sung with artistry and that vigor and abandon which characterizes Russian music. Suffice it to say, the offering of the Siberian Singers has so far been unrivalled here in music of its type.”

The following is an excerpt from The Richmond Times Dispatch: “The Siberian Singers were, in this writer’s estimation, the finest Russian group that has been heard in America. There appeared during the evening every shade of vocal quality that one could imagine, enriching the ensemble. A change of costume accentuates the difference in mood between the serious music and the gay.”

And from another daily paper: “Their phenomenal range—from contra G to treble E—is perhaps unequalled by any other male ensemble in the world.”

DAVIDSON'S MARTIN IS MANY COLLEGIANS BRAVE SNOW TO ATTEND YEAR’S LARGEST DANCE SET

THREE DANCES IN SET

Orchestra Presents Many Novel Arrangements

Davidson Pan-Hellenic Mid Winters! Freddy Martin, with his outstanding band of fourteen pieces, furnished music for those dancing the Cotillion to the Shottische Friday, January 31 and Saturday, February 1 at the Charlotte Armory Auditorium.

Those participating in the figure were Phi Gamma Delta, Cokey Branton, with Miss Happy James, and J. B. Goslen with Miss Martha Crosland. Kappa Sigma, Mr. Charles Thompson, secretary of the council, with Miss Babs McDowell, and Mr. Prosser Morrow with Miss Jean Brock. Sigma Alpha Epsilon, Mr. Marchant with Miss Elizabeth Lucas, and Mr. Lamont Brown with Miss Susan Rudisill. Pi Kappa Alpha, Mr. Billy Archer with Miss Claudiane Ryan, and Mr. Charles Hamrick with Miss Mary McKay. Pi Kappa Phi, Mr. John Williswith Miss Mary Lib Moore, and Mr. Mills Paylor with Miss Mary Harris. Alpha, Mr. Reg Harris with Miss Mary Elizabeth Sanders, and Mr. Tom Downie with Miss Catherine Foster. Beta Theta Pi, Mr. Bill Cof (Continued on Page 5)

“What do you think of giving freshmen a vote in student body elections, with the provision that two freshman votes equal that of one upperclassman?”

As one of its objectives this year, Delta Circle of Omicron Delta Kappa has undertaken the consideration of the freshman franchise under the above condition, that the freshman ballot be valued at half that of the three upper classes. In order to discover student body opinion on the matter, members of the circle approached a number of students selected at random from the Junior and Senior classes and requested an answer to the question stated in our lead paragraph. Their replies are as follows:

Bill Benfield — “The advantage of freshmen voting in student body elections is two-fold. Not only will the freshmen prove of value in securing student body control, but the information and experience received by the freshmen will be of great value to them in future voting.”

Tom Downie — "Such a change in the voting policy of Davidson would bring about a better expression of the desires of the entire student body and at the same time maintain a check on the oft-time mistaken judgments of first-year men.”

Woodrow Hassell — “Under our present system of student elections, each class which goes through Davidson is practically unrepresented, with the exception of the sophomore members of the student council, in the organization which performs the duties of student government for fully half its college career. It seems to me that this is a flagrant opposition to the spirit of democratic government upon which our American governmental agencies are based. Personally, therefore, I should be in favor of restoring the vote to the freshmen absolutely, provided that they should not be allowed to vote before the spring elections of their first year. I include in this provision that I believe they will have attained a knowledge of the student body or the qualifications of the various candidates before that time. However, I believe they will obtain a sufficient understanding of the campus men and institutions to be able to vote intelligently by that time, and therefore I should favor permitting them to have a ballot in the spring elections of their first year.”

Jim Hodgin — "I think that the freshmen should be allowed to vote, their votes counting one-half.”

Hunter McClung — "To restore the vote would help the freshmen to a degree, and the great unity of student body.”

Frank Owen — "Since the most important elections come off in March and April, I see no reason why the freshmen should not know all the men by this period. There is no reason why the vote should not be restored.”

Mac Toole — "Freshmen who are allowed to vote, reasonably, should become better Davidson students since they would take more interest in and know more about student government as we know it here. Furthermore, as relatively new men we are influenced more by friendship than by consideration of the candidate's merit. The freshman, looking at the candidate more objectively, may have greater insight into their respective merits.”

Jimmy Salango — "It is an excellent idea to permit the freshmen to vote. I consider the matter primarily important because of their interest and, secondarily, because they are, after all, part of the student body.”

Fields Young — "I think the freshmen should be allowed to vote under the present system of having two freshmen votes count as one regular vote. This is a very good idea.”

Russ Patterson — "The elections are not held until the spring of the year, which gives the freshmen time to know the upperclassmen. They look up to the upperclassmen, and I believe give more thought to the qualities of the men nominated than the members of other classes.”

FROLIC AT ANNUAL MID-WINTERS; FEATURED

Two Departments To Begin Spring Pictures

The Chemistry and Physics departments will begin their Spring series of motion pictures on Friday evening, February 7, at seven o'clock. The pictures will be shown in the lecture room of the Chemistry Building. This is the fourth set of moving pictures that have been presented under the auspices of these departments this year. It is planned to show several more this year with the date for the next set of pictures tentatively set for February twenty-first. Six reels will be shown Friday night consisting of: Cementing the Centuries—2 reels—silent; Touring in Private—2 reels—sound; Business in Great Waters—2 reels—sound.

The first dance (formal) of the set was held Friday night from ten until two o'clock. The main feature of the dance was the Pan-Hellenic figure formed just before intermission and led by Mr. Coleman Bran, president of the Council, with Miss Happy James. The figure was made up of the members of the council with their dates supplemented by one additional man from each fraternity on the hill. Favors and flowers were given to each couple in the figure upon advancing alternatingly from the two doors on either side of the orchestra at the reading of their names and respective fraternities.

Prof. Pfohl to Supervise Summer Music Camp to Be Held on Campus

The first music school camp ever held in the South will be conducted at Davidson College this summer, it was announced by Prof. F. W. Flegle, director of the summer session. The six-week camp school, running from June 23 through July 31, will be under the supervision of Prof. James C. Pfohl, director of music. Work for both college and high school musicians will be given this summer. Outstanding college musicians will be retained as counselors and student instructors, and will form the nucleus for the various musical organizations. Courses will be offered in all forms of music, such as band, orchestra, and glee club. Employing the superb facilities of Davidson College, the school will be adequately supplied with all the necessities of a top-ranking music school. All students will be fed and housed by the college in Chambers Hall, and concerts and classes will be held in the Auditorium. All the details of the camp will be in the hands of Prof. Pfohl.

Heath Hillcats to Offer Play in Three Acts

The Heath Hillcats will present a play in three acts entitled "The Royal Family" on Friday night at eight o'clock in the college auditorium. The play is a comedy about a royal family in a small European country. The plot revolves around the daughter of the king who falls in love with a commoner but cannot marry him because of her royal status. The Queen, who is very ambitious, tries to arrange a marriage with the Prince of a neighboring country, but the Princess objects. At the same time, a revolution arises in the country but is finally quelled. The King happens to read the Constitution and finds that he has (Continued on Page 6)

RANSOM GIVES LECTURE BEFORE STUDENTS AND FACULTY HERE

Poet Presents “A Southern Policy to Fit Southern Prejudices”

SPEAKS TO TWO GROUPS

Lecturer Discusses Verse in Afternoon Address

John Crowe Ransom, professor of English at Vanderbilt University, addressed Davidson students and faculty on Tuesday evening, January 28, in the auditorium of Chambers Building, his subject being: “A Southern Policy to Fit Southern Prejudices.” The visitor, who is a distinguished Southerner and a poet as well, was introduced by Dr. C. W. Brown, head of the Economics department, who spoke briefly of his own sympathy with the argument of Professor Ransom’s speech, and mentioned his prominence in the Southern world of letters, something apart from his prominence in the “new Agrarian” movement.

The theme of Professor Ransom’s lecture was the necessity and the methods of preserving the South's peculiar heritage, a standard of living and a way of life different from that of any other culture on the continent. He began by admitting his inability to speak on subjects that belonged more properly to the realm of the economist, but was not disposed to say that he was totally unprepared to discuss the subject. Showing how it is not possible to isolate the moral, aesthetic, and economic phases of the problem of modern agrarianism, he went on to say that today’s tendency to treat any one of these phases with undue importance obscured certain rational views of the whole problem of modern economic society. Recently, he had had the opportunity to examine an article by Mr. V. F. Calverton entitled “The Bankruptcy of Culture In The South,” complaining loudly that the South has become a home of ‘petty bourgeoisie;’ and at the request of the publishers, he had written a companion piece refuting his arguments. Is the South ready to be propositioned by the Marxist? Is the present so-called social order impossible and therefore doomed to speedy death? In connection with the hope for a quick appearance of a Marxist order, he (Continued on Page 6)

Noted Physicist Talks At Quadranglers’ Club

Dr. A. R. Olpin Discusses Present Difficulties of Television

Dr. A. R. Olpin, noted physicist, addressed the Quadranglers’ Club on the present difficulties of television. He discussed the technical challenges and the future potential of the medium. The lecture was well received by the faculty and students in attendance.