Page Four THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 14, 1936

SPORTS AFIELD

DUKE AND TECH CLASH SATURDAY AT DURHAM

CATS ANNIHILATE V.M.I. CADETS, 38-13

DUKE, FURMAN, CAROLINA BEAT STRONG TEAMS

Clemson, Citadel, Maryland, and V.M.I. Receive First Conference Defeat

DAVIDSON RANKS FIFTH

Wolfpack Loses Intersectional Battle By 13-7 Score

Charlie Sears touched off the fire-works in great style. The first two passes by Lafferty — first to Armfield for
2 seems, then to Dennis. He does not recall that beautiful long toss to Armfield on the goal line. The
true strength of Teeny’s following was emphasized by the concern felt for him by those thousands of fans.

Led By Charlie Sears, Fighting Wildcats Claw Their Way To Victory

STRONG SOCCER TEAM

The Cats’ defensive strength lies in Bailey and the other unsung heroes: Jagle, right tackle; McLain, Heheen, Hunter, quarterback; Watkins,
left halfback; Garrett, right halfback; and Rackley, full-back. Substitutions for Davidson were Miller, Harnsberger, Guy, D.A. McLain, and Powell.

Fourteen Men Advance to Second Round in Annual Tennis Day

Miller, Star Wofford Back, Dives Across Goal Line For Score

GAME PLAYED IN MUD

Kittens Lack Scoring Punch In Last Quarter

Coach Flake Laird’s Davidson Wildkittens dropped a hard-fought game last Friday to a strong Wofford freshman team on Snyder Field
in Spartanburg to the tune of 7-0. Neither team was able to get traction in the deep mud and Wofford’s
touchdown proved the margin of victory. The Terrier score came in the second period as a result of three long
aerials. The last was ruled complete on Davidson’s 3-yard line when a player interfered with the receiver. Davidson braced but
could not stop the plunging of Jim Miller, who dived over the goal line for the score. Carroll, tackle, kicked
the extra point for Wofford.

Tide Turns

Davidson came to life in the second half and twice marched deep into Wofford territory only to be repulsed within
scoring distance. In the line, McLean, Rager, and George Richman stood out. In the backfield, the men shared equally. Carroll
and Miller looked best for the Terriers. The line-up for the Wild-Kittens: McClintock, left end; left tackle; Rice, left guard;
Yates, center; Richman, right guard; Jagle, right tackle; McLain, Heheen, Hunter, quarterback; Watkins, left halfback; Garrett, right halfback; and Rackley,
full-back.

SEARS BACK

A package of dynamite exploded in the ranks of the Flying Squadron Saturday afternoon. He definitely answered the question of
what the Wildcats would do without Lafferty.

JUNIORS TIED FOR LEAD

Each Has One Win and One Tie in Intramural Football

Overwhelming Victory in First Home Game of Season

LAFFERTY INJURED, BUT MATES CARRY ON

Although Outweighed, Line Holds Flying Squadron to 59 Yards Gain on Running Plays

By Bill Marquess

With an unbeatable variety of smashing power plays, reverses, and deadly aerial thrusts, Davidson clipped Moot’s Flying Squadron and buried
the Cadets under a 38-13 score Saturday afternoon on Richardson Field. After the first few minutes of the second quarter,
the game was a touchdown parade for the Wildcats. Sears made the final tally in the fourth quarter. Roberson, attempting
to punt for the Flying Squadron from his 10-yard marker, was smothered by an avalanche of five Cat linemen and
the ball went over. Then little Charlie took a reverse from Bill Beatty and skirted left end, outrunning the whole
V.M.I. team.

To pick an individual star would be impossible. The whole Wildcat team played a slashing, powerful game. In the backfield,
the gains of Sears and Armfield were made possible by the blocking of Corbin and Dennis. The line, outweighed eight
pounds to the man, held the Cadet backs to a net gain of 59 yards from rushing, while the Davidson
team...140] Davidson ball carriers romped for 226 yards, nearly four times as much as V. M. I. Lee and Williams
and later McClellan at end did a beautiful job of smashing interference and covering kicks. The rest of the line,
Graham, Hunter, Johnston, Johnson, and Purdy stopped everything that V. M. I. could throw at them and tore gaping holes
in the red line through which their own backs ripped off sizeable gains. By this time the Cadets were thoroughly
bewildered and gave the Wildcats a third touchdown when Johnston recovered Beard’s fumble on the six-yard line. After an incomplete
pass, Armfield made his second touchdown, terminating a 70-yard march, with a jaunt around left end and ran the count
to 25-0.

The poor co-eds at German universities and colleges acquire their education by degrees, and at the end of their courses
most of them can't get their diplomas anyway.

Women drivers react more slowly than men in time braking emergencies, according to findings of a series of scientific tests
given at Pennsylvania State College.

Coach Flake Laird announced that fall basketball practice would start on Monday, November 2. All of last year’s varsity squad
and all sophomores with basketball numerals are expected to report for this initial practice. Practice will be light at first,
as the cagers will only practice two nights a week for the first month. The Wildcats will stress the fundamentals
of the game in their early practice sessions. All of last year’s varsity squad will be back this year. Seven
of them will be returning.

(Continued on Page 6)

FAUL & CRYMES, INC.
SPORTING GOODS
415 South Tryon Street
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

KAPPA SIGMA
Founded at the University of Virginia, Dec. 10, 1869
COLORS: Emerald, White and Scarlet
FLOWER: Lily of the Valley

N. C. Delta Chapter Officers:
CARL CARLSON, Pres.
BILL HIGGINS, Dep. V.-P.
WADE BOGGS, V.-Pres.
HECTOR McGEACHY, Trs.
TOM HENDERSON, Secretary
MARION DAVIS

BUFF SHOE SHOP
“When It’s Done By Buff That’s Enuff”
205 South Tryon St.
O. C. BUFF, Prop.

AMERICAN CAFE

We Asked One Question of 200 Men and Women:
“Which Pen is Your Choice for Style and Beauty?”
And 2 to 1 Selected Parker’s Laminated Pearl—The sacless Vacumatic with Ever-Visible Ink Supply and 102% More Ink Capacity than
Old Style—GUARANTEED Mechanically Perfect.

Yes, other things being equal, style-minded people would choose the Parker Vacumatic for beauty alone! But other things, too, including
performance, make this revolutionary invention the national favorite by a still bigger margin—by 9 to 4.**

One important difference—its ink supply is ever visible—the ENTIRE length of the barrel. Thus it shows days ahead WHEN IT’S
RUNNING LOW. Another great difference is the patented Parker filler. There's no other like it. It requires no sliding piston
immersed in ink—its working parts are sealed in the top WHERE INK CAN NEVER TOUCH THEM—can never decompose them. The
Parker point is Scratch-proof—precious Platinum combined with solid Gold. Every student needs this miracle writer that doesn’t “let you down”
by running dry in classes or exams. Go and see this luminous, laminated Pearl Beauty at any good store selling
pens.

The Parker Pen Co., Janesville, Wis.

VACUMATIC
GUARANTEED MECHANICALLY PERFECT
Junior, $5
Pencils, $2.50, Over-Size, $10
$3.50 and $5
