WEDNESDAY, DEC. 1, 1937, THE DAVIDSONIAN: Page Three

Sponsors For Annual Turkey Day Battle

Dr. G.B. Watts Appointed To Language Committee

Present At Installation

Seven Professors Attend Meeting of Modern Language Association

Professor Goes to Birmingham-Southern For Phi Beta Kappa Meeting

Dr. W. P. Cumming attended the founding of a new chapter of Phi Beta Kappa at Birmingham-Southern College last Friday,
Nov. 26. This installation was conducted by Dr. Frank P. Graves, president of the United Chapters of the Phi Beta
Kappa Society, and Commissioner of Education of the State of New York. Friday evening President Graves gave an address on
“Present Day Trends in Education.”

The charter for a chapter at Birmingham-Southern College was granted at the Triennial Council of Phi Beta Kappa last September.
There are now 132 colleges and universities who have been granted charters by the Society.

Dr. Cumming stated that from a position of comparative obscurity twenty years ago, Birmingham-Southern has advanced rapidly in academic standing
until at present it is one of the best liberal arts colleges in the South.

(Courtesy Charlotte Observer)

When Davidson and Wake Forest met in their traditional Thanksgiving Day clash in the Charlotte American Legion Memorial Stadium, the
five beautiful sponsors shown above were sitting on the sidelines to cheer the Wildcats in their valiant struggle. They are,
left to right: Miss Dot Tudor, Miss Carolina Caldwell, Miss Nancy Beaty, Miss Mary Eleanor Horn, and Miss Dorothy Hendrix.
Miss Alma Ranson, a sixth sponsor, was absent at the time the picture was taken.

Dr. Johnson Takes His Text From Matthew 8:22

Dr. Johnson’s text was from Matthew 8:22: “But Jesus said unto him, Follow me; and let the dead bury their
dead.” He meant that physically dead people should be left to bury their own dead.

Dr. G. B. Watts of Davidson College was named to the executive committee of the Modern Language Association.

Dr. Cumming returned to Atlanta, Saturday, November 27, after attending the meeting of the Modern Language Association.

“D” Club Gives Annual Dinner To Grid Team

The “D” Club gave its annual banquet for the 48 members of the football squad last night in the Alumni
Banquet Hall. Over a hundred attended the banquet, including Jake Wade, of the Charlotte Observer; Wade Brown, and Burke Davis,
of the Charlotte News, and Frank Spencer, of the Winston-Salem Journal, who represented the press.

“Cokey” Branton Tapped By Blue Key

Coleman Branton of the class of 1938 was tapped by the University of Mississippi chapter of Blue Key, national honorary
leadership fraternity.

Eligibility to membership is earned through attainment of 15 honor points secured through accomplishment in scholarship, athletics, newspaper, and literary
fields.

While at the university Branton has been an outstanding leader. He is a member of Phi Beta Kappa, assistant editor
of the Law Journal, and a sub-editor of the university yearbook.

Debating Team Selected From Twenty Contenders By Faculty Committee

Davidson's Varsity Debating team for the 1937-38 season will meet a debating team from the University of Alabama on next
Monday night. The team will defend the negative side of the question: Resolved, That the National Labor Relations Board should
be empowered to enforce arbitration of all industrial disputes. This question is the one selected by Pi Kappa Delta, the
national forensic union, as most appropriate for college debating teams for this season.

Davidson's debating team was selected by a faculty committee last night, but when the paper went to press, the names
of the team members had not been announced.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

The team were unavailable. Those seen were members of the University Law School, members of the athletic council, and those
trying out were Oscar Armstrong and the Mississippi Bar Association. Joe Calvin, Jim Currie, Tom Trin, Hare Hendrick, Haywood Hill,
Bob Kellogg, Dick Kenyon, Bill Kiesewetter, Ken McLean, George Milne, Ralph Monger, Bill Rader, Bob Ramsey, John Reisner, Sherrard Rice,
Neal Scott, Archer Torrey, Locke White, and David Woodward. The faculty committee who judged the try-outs was composed of Prof.
J. Bailey, Prof. E. A. Beaty, Dr. C. K. Brown, Dr. W. P. Cumming, and Prof. E. J. Irwin.

Another feature of the meeting was the presentation of letters for varsity football for this season, and the initiation of
the new men eligible for membership in the “D” Club. Leonard Fort, president, and Bruce Parcell, secretary, were in charge
of the general plans for the meeting. Decorations for the banquet were elaborate. The tables, which were arranged in the
form of a “D,” were enclosed with red and white paper draped from the center down to the sides, enclosing
the tables.

Dr. C. K. Brown, professor of Economics, will be guest of honor at the first meeting of the International Relations
Club to be held Friday night at 8:00 P.M. Dr. Brown will lead the meeting in a discussion of international
affairs, touching mainly on the Far East situation. Jim Dorsett, president of the club, stated that the I. R. C.
plans an extensive program of speakers on foreign affairs during the year. Last year they had a splendid list of
speakers. The program committee is trying to secure William Winters for a speaker in the near future. Mr. Winters, a
popular news commentator, is heard regularly over station WBT in Charlotte. Dorsett urges all members to be at this first
meeting which will be held in the Chambers faculty room.

Experience is what you have left when everything else is gone. Intelligent cheerfulness is rare.

To the Pirates of Davidson, we extend a cordial invitation. Whether you want a chair or your entire home furnished,
we can offer you a saving of 40%. We do this by selling for cash. We carry a line of
nationally advertised furniture: Kroehler Living Room, Tomlinson Dining Room, Alexander Smith, Firth and Mohawk Rugs and Carpet.

Davidson’s only 5 & 10 Store. Southern Speed - Precision - Quality. Prompt & Cheerful Service. Davidson, N. C.

Thur. - Fri. - Sat. BORIS KARLOFF in "BROADWAY" at the Mooresville, N. C. Theatre. Phone 168, 128 N. Tryon,
Charlotte, N. C.

---
