WEDNESDAY, NOV. 17, 1938. THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Three

Question of ‘ads Meet | College Journalists at Banquet

Interesting Exhibits of the Up to now it’s been more or less a Largest Displayed at Library U.S. Cities

Alumni in New York, Philadelphia, and Cambridge Have Letters and Books of Great Cunningham Talks Here

From present indications, it looks to us as if the whole business will come to a head in the very,
very near future. It’s a known fact that Davidson social activities are among the cleanest, if not the cleanest, dances
in the south. Drunks such as those seen at some collegiate functions are the exception rather than the rule. With
this fact in mind, therefore, we print the answers to the question of the week: “Do you think there should
be a student group authorized by the student body to control what drinking there might be at our dances by
reporting the offenders?”

Pinky King, Senior:
“NO! There would be chaos. I don’t think anyone would want the job, and if they did, whoever did would
run around blindfolded. And put that ‘No’ in capital letters.” (We did, as you can see).

Jimmy Cooper, Sophomore:
“I don’t think there should be. I believe if students come to realize that here at Davidson there is a
neat balance between drinking and dancing, it won’t be necessary to have a group appointed to report offenders. Of course,
those drinking might be removed from the dance floor and perhaps banned from future dances. This might prove an effective
way of reducing drinking.”

Ogburn Spoon, Senior:
“No. For one thing, I think a group like that would degenerate into a clique. Generally, if it were established,
it would be another group that the student body would not approve. I don’t think it would have the support
of the students.”

Conrad Frederick Smith, alumni secretary, and Malcolm Lockhart, Jr., assistant alumni secretary, returned Monday from attending alumni meetings in three
of the nation’s major cities, New York, Philadelphia, and Boston.

Winston-Salem Minister Speaks on “The Church and Our World Peace”

The first of these meetings was held last week in New York. The function was presided over by Capt. Mullins,
class of ’28, and was held in the New York alumni group. Smith and Lockhart spoke on Davidson’s Centennial. Among
those present was Judge F. P. Lingle. There were also several alumni present at the meeting.

Journeying southward to Philadelphia, Smith and Lockhart attended a spirited meeting in Philadelphia on Thursday, presided over by Dr. Monroe
P. Gilmore, class of ’28, in Kugler’s Restaurant. Smith and Lockhart, in their talks, emphasized the same themes of Davidson’s
Centennial. The banquet was held in the mezzanine of the restaurant.

Davidson Hi-Y Work Is Supervised By Bryant

Three Prizes Offered for Essayists

The Davidson Hi-Y work is being supervised by Bryant. The local club is affiliated with the national organization. The essay
contest is being held to stimulate interest in the work.

Organize Harvard Club

A meeting was held in Cambridge for the Davidson-Harvard football game. The banquet and meeting were held at the Commander
Hotel. At the beginning of the meeting, Frank Davidson alumni and John D. Al...Dun organization must have: president, secretary, and
treasurer. There must be student body support to be successful representing the Cambridge chapter.

Discuss Racial Problems
Bruce Parcell, Senior:
"Definitely not! I don’t think a small group should control the dances—if one man is going to be duty-bound to
take responsibility for drinking, it must rest on the students. It should rest on all and not a few. If
the present status of the honor system is to be continued, I don’t see how the student body can deviate
from it by putting a small group only in control of dances."

Marion Pleasants, Junior:
"I think it would be a good idea if it would not cause hard feelings among students. However, such a
system would place the controlling group in a rather hard position."

Dugald Stewart, Sophomore:
"I guess I think there should be a student group in control. There's not supposed to be any drinking at
the dances as it is, and such a ruling would probably cut down the tendency towards drinking."

The Hi-Y club plays a prominent part in charity acts and the upcoming Red Cross drive.

Approximately one hundred and fifty people met the football team on its return from the Harvard trip about two o'clock
Monday afternoon. There was no organized cheering, but the crowd gathered in small groups about each player as he descended
from the train to hear what he had to say about his trip. All players agreed that they had had
a fine time, but that the game was played in the roughest weather they had ever seen for a football
contest.
