- Page Two

The Davidsonian

Founded By the Class of 1915 — 1937

Member 1938 Associated Collegiate Press

Distributor of Collegiate Digest

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative, 420 MADISON AVE.
New York, N.Y.
CHICAGO - BOSTON - LOS ANGELES - SAN FRANCISCO

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879.

DICK VOWLES - Editor-in-Chief
CHARLES MOORE - Business Manager
Assistant Editor - Managing Editor
Managing Editor - Managing Editor
Managing Editor - Managing Editor
Managing Editor - Managing Editor
Fitzhugh Dade - Joe Calvin
Wesley Corh - Terrell Porter
Perry Sloan - Bill Marquess
Sports Editor - Owen Cooke
Associate Editor - Sam Cothran
Associate Editor - Buchd Fant
Associate Editor - Hector McGeach
Associate Editor - Yates Faison
Movie Editor - Henry Baker

BUSINESS STAFF
Collection Manager - Joe Latiner
Advertising Manager - Bill Mille
Advertising Manager - Weshe Coghill
Circulation Manager - Terrell Porter
Circulation Manager - Sam Hemphill
Business Manager

Faith is the eye that sees Him, the hand that clings to Him, the receiving power that appropriates Him. —WOODBRIDGE.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

By showing that friendly spirit which has always characterized Davidson, and by thoughtful courtesies, we can add a great deal of what Matthew Arnold used to call “sweetness and light” to the occasion. —Walter L. Lingle.

As Grads Return...

Once again we are glad that that time of year is upon us, when we meet and entertain those who have walked these corridors before us. Many, however, did not have the good fortune of walking these SAME corridors; they were students here in the days of the Old Chambers Building. In spite of the fact that they did not have the facilities and comforts, of which we today are too often unmindful, they took just as much pride and interest in their work and entertainment as we today do. The scenes about Davidson have changed greatly since those men were here. Nevertheless, the Davidson Spirit has not changed, and this is the main factor in making our Alumni feel at home.

We here today by means of our spirit and good will can take our visitors again to the joyful days they spent here. Their minds will revert to the minor incidences as well as major objectives and acquaintances. Shall those of thirty years ago ever forget the meeting en masse of the old cinder blower? The engineer, recently retired, was a dear friend to most of the boys, for often he would ride them to Charlotte on credit. Never, though, did he forget the face of his debtor. Many times he would recognize one from his cabin and would collect the debt without moving from his seat at the throttle.

Welcome Alumni...

Welcome home, Davidson grads: Once again, on Homecoming Day you have an opportunity to return to the Alma Mater en masse. Davidson College has done everything possible to give you a day that will not be easy to forget. The football game, the central event of the gathering, promises to be one of the best of the season, although the team faces formidable odds. A greater Davidson spirit has pervaded the campus, ever since the Furman victory. Morale has returned. An alumni banquet has been planned which will offer the alumni a chance to gather together for a short time and renew old acquaintances. Nor have other social aspects been overlooked. The fraternity houses will be open, as is the usual custom after games. One of the best sets of Homecoming dances in the history of the College has been planned. But one precaution should be mentioned. The fraternity houses and dances are open to sober alumni only. Alumni, you owe something to your College. In returning once a year, you pay in some measure a debt to the College that you will never be able to repay. Make the most of it. Plan to enter wholeheartedly into the spirit of the day. The Davidson student body welcomes you. Every student should offer the returning alumnus every convenience possible. Let’s not be selfish about it. It is primarily a day for the alumni. Saturday is Homecoming Day. Make the most of it!

Homecoming

When we think of Homecoming Day we think of it in terms of the alumni and friends. It is a time when they come trooping back to the College. Their coming always heartens us. Someone has defined a friend as one who knows all about you and still loves you. The alumni are just about the best friends a college ever had. They know all about it on the inside and on the outside, and still love it.

We take this occasion to thank the Stough brothers for their generosity in inviting the whole student body to be their guests at the theatre last Friday evening. It was a fine gesture on their part and noticeably increased the morale and spirit of the students. Not only did the boys appreciate the invitation but very evidently enjoyed the motion picture itself.

Remembering that a ‘free show’ has not occurred for quite a while now, might we not moralize to the extent of saying that so long as one behaves as a crude and vulgar person he can expect to be treated as such and when one behaves as a gentleman then he may expect treatment from others fitting a gentleman.

It made a deep impression on us a Monday or two ago when, after ‘cutting’ a class on the weekend preceding, we went to the dean’s office to have it fixed so that our cut would not count double, to be asked to sign this statement: “I did not attend the Davidson-South Carolina football game.” Odd (Continued on Page Three)

Letters to the Editor

WHY BAN THE BIG APPLE?...

Dear Editor:

Two issues ago you had interviews with prominent members of the student body concerning the question of banning the Big Apple and Little Apple at Davidson dances. Their statements were very interesting. It was not difficult to tell which ones knew how to Apple. You remember the story of the fox who had his tail cut off and then tried to get all the other foxes to cut theirs off also. Is there any great evil connected with the Big Apple? It seems to me that it is a more wholesome form of recreation than some other forms of dancing. It is certainly more exercise than most dances. At least one of the Presbyterian women's colleges have gone so far as to allow the girls and their dates to hold Big Apple dances on the campus. Then why should an innocent dance be condemned and outlawed? Because some people don't like it or can't dance it? Do you prohibit bow ties because you don't like them? Do you prohibit green shirts because yours is blue? I think not. Then why be narrow and censorious about the Big Apple? One accusation has been that Apple dancing is undignified, thus being out of place at Davidson. Is it possibly less dignified than the “Bird in the Cage?” Than whistling at young ladies at football games and elsewhere? Than hissing speakers and announcements in chapel? Than booing at the theater? Than — well, we won't mention that. Anyway, it can hardly be banned because of lack of dignity. Neither do I see any justification for outlawing it because everyone can’t do it. Everyone can't waltz, or shag, or Westchester, but we don’t interfere with those who can. The Big Apple is not compulsory.and those who do not like it do not need to dance it. However, don't be a dog in the manger. Someone must like it, or it wouldn't have swept the country as it has. Why not let those who enjoy it have their innocent fun?

APPLESEED JOHN.

The Weekly Time Table

Wednesday, Nov. 3—
7:15 P.M.—Meeting of the Editorial staff of the Davidsonian.
7:30 P.M.—Journalism Class conducted by Fred Smith.
8:00 P.M.—Scheduled meeting of the Sigma Upsilon.
9:00 P.M.—Scheduled meeting of the “Y” Cabinet.

Thursday, Nov. 4—
7:00-1:00 P.M.—Weekly meetings of the Social Fraternities.

Friday, Nov. 5—
7:30 P.M.—Student pep meeting in the new gymnasium.
8:00 P.M.—Davidson Symphonic Band will give a concert in Chambers Auditorium.
10:00 P.M.-2:00 A.M.—Formal dance will be given by the Pan-Hellenic Council in the Charlotte Armory, Earl Mellen playing.

Saturday, Nov. 6—
12:30 P.M.—Alumni Banquet will be held in the banquet hall of Chambers Building.
2:30 P.M.—Homecoming football game with the University of N.C. on Richardson Field.
9:00 P.M.-12 Midnight—Pan-Hellenic Council will sponsor an informal dance at the Charlotte Armory.

Sunday, Nov. 7—
10:15 A.M.—Student Sunday School class will meet in Philanthropic Hall.
6:30 P.M.—College Vesper Service in Chambers Auditorium with Dr. W. T. Thompson of Richmond, Va., as guest speaker.

Monday, Nov. 8—
12 Noon—Student meetings to be held in Chambers Auditorium following the regular chapel exercise.

Tuesday, Nov. 9—
7:00 P.M.—Scheduled meeting of Alpha Phi Epsilon.

The Editor

EX-BUSINESS MANAGER WRITES...

Dear Editor:
I have thoroughly enjoyed the Davidsonian. Your business manager’s work is certainly to be commended. This past issue is the best college publication I have seen.

J. A. C. WADSWORTH, '35.
Ex-Business Manager.

* * *

CONCERNING NEW FOREIGN POLICY...

The Editor
The Davidsonian:

In a news article of Oct. 13, The Davidsonian stated that the student body, at least “the largest majority of all, was in accord with the principle in Roosevelt's recent foreign policy, suggesting that war-mad nations be ‘Quarantined.’ The public is still in the dark concerning Roosevelt's ‘Quarantine’ policy, but in principle the student body approves.” Who was it that said we don't know what the President is up to, but whatever it is we are behind him? In a press conference on Oct. 15, Mr. Roosevelt made it clear to reporters “that any predictions of United States foreign policy must be pure guesswork, emphasizing that he did not know what it would be himself.” This was carried on the front page of the leading journals, yet nobody seems at all perturbed when a man who doesn't know his own mind tries to lead a country after he has already stated his intention of substituting his own ideas for the law of the land.

On the fifth of this month the President made his Chicago speech. The following day the State Department issued a statement on Japan, finding Japan to be acting in violation of the Nine-Power Treaty and the Kellogg-Briand Pact. Together these two moves mean that Mr. Roosevelt has made a dead letter of American neutrality policy and is embarked on a new course of dealing actively with aggressor nations. So far, we have been offered no constructive plan. The President's only contribution has been the nullification of the neutrality which he pledged himself to support.

Let us pause a moment to look at the Neutrality Act. There has been some question as to whether it made it mandatory for the President to issue a proclamation and establish an embargo. It reads: “Whenever the President shall find that there exists a state of war... the President shall proclaim such fact and it shall be thereafter unlawful...”

(Continued on Page 7)

WEDNESDAY, NOV. 3, 1937.

King For A Day
By CHUBBY KING

Suppose you noticed excessive amount of low grades... what's that all play and no work makes Jack a dull boy—and a freshman (already stupid) a bit on the imbecile side. Freshmen should realize now that since no re-exams are given this year—it's either pass three or pass out. It seems that with such large numbers of students refused admittance, that our selective system could be improved upon. Select the students before they get here, rather than flunk them out after they are in.

At Women's College this weekend, Pete McKnight led rebellious group and reintroduced banned “Little Apple”—was with Eleanor Kerchner, Mark Lillard with Betsy Wharton, John Withers with Anna Steele, and Warren Gaw with Jane Umstead... Dick Wright, Halloweenishly clad—band uniform—and Joe Craver—ROTC uniform—parading the streets of Salisbury. Halloween in Charlotte—all sorts of horrible-looking persons promenading the streets, blowing unearthly horns and making irritating sounds with distorted voices—Davidson cat-callers, booers, and so forth were right at home in this particular group. But, with the nicer element... Philip E. Mayhew, the DuPont man, entertained with his friend the judge, Mr. Black, and the D.A.—another renowned barrister, Mr. Thomas... Colonel Liipfert delivered melancholy melody, “In My Solitude,” quite impressively. Teeny and Caddy, Yates and Betty in quiet little party... pressmen’s conference presided over by our own Comrade... Bob Wyatt, obsessed with “uncle” ideas... John McQueen, Bill McLean, all Halloween-y... Jim Dorsett, with Alice Wright Murphy... also Sam Cothran, Cage Brewer with attractive girls.

One Bounder Bryant has consulted a learned member of faculty concerning grounds for libel suit—ah, how I long for complete Freedom of the Press.

Take It Easy
By Rut Miller

HOMECOMING... It’s fast approaching, this big weekend of the football season. Old grads, best girl, the family for some, the big game. Not to mention the dance set with Earl Mellen furnishing the music for both dances. The fraternities will also be holding banquets before and after the dances in Charlotte and feeds and get-togethers at the frat houses here in Davidson. The decorating of the fraternity houses will add quite a touch of that well-known weekend spirit too. All in all it looms up as being one of the biggest and best in the history of ye olde schoole.

FLOWERS... Wasn't it last year that the policy of no corsages was considered on this campus? Anyway, it seems that several of the better colleges in the east and middle west have carried out this idea with very satisfactory results. The students at the Woman’s College of the University of North Carolina in Greensboro express their sentiments with this statement: “Less flowers but more and better dances.” It all amounts to the same amount of money. Put your corsage money on good orchestras for each dance.

WHAT, AGAIN?...
Yes, again. The water tank we mean. Why it's not even fair to paint it again without finding out who the culprit was in the first incident. However, the statement on the tank will probably meet with more approval this time than the first. If you remember correctly there was one class in particular that didn't like the wording of the first creation.

STRANGE ANGLE...
Does the College expect the water tank to be painted every year? No? Then why do they have an insurance policy that covers the probability of a Davidson student falling from the tank? They do, according to the latest rumors.

NEVER THE TWAIN SHALL MEET...
But that's just what will happen when Davidson meets Harvard at Cambridge in two weeks. And in more ways than football, too. For Prof. Pfohl is planning to even pick cotton upon that northern sod. The program presented at the Furman game will be carried out at the Harvard game but upon a more elaborate scale. He is furthermore taking his own cotton and negro boys to pick the cotton. Ain't that sumpin’?

ANOTHER THUMB NAIL...
This one is also a senior and rooms in Watts. Again he has an Adonis-like body and pleasing personality. He was the recipient of an honor last week that is the goal of all. A blonde of about five feet ten inches and rather a dandy with the ladies. He is especially well known for his association with lizards and janitors. Incidentally he makes himself conspicuous at football games and has quite a bit to do with pep meetings.

THOUGHT OF THE WEEK...
“A friend is a person who knows all about you—and still likes you.”

“The Place of Good Eats”
Specializing In Sizzling Steaks And Sunday Dinners
50 Cents and up
WEEK DAY LUNCHES
25 Cents and up
SPECIAL TOASTED SANDWICHES
CHARLOTTE’S FAVORITE
Greenland Cafe
126 East Trade Street
(Opposite Belk’s)
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Open 5:30 a.m. to 2:00 a.m.
Air Conditioned