Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, SEPT. 29, 1937

The Davidsonian
Founded By the Class of 1915
1936 Member 1937
Associated Collegiate Press
Distributors of Collegiate Digest
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON AVE. NEW YORK, N.Y.

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, N.C., March 3, 1921.

DICK VOWLES Editor-in-Chief
CHARLES MOORE Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF

He who confers a kindness should be silent; he who receives one should speak of it.

Dorm Overflow...
Dormitory life is half of college life. And even if this does seem to be too broad a statement, most
college students will verify the importance of dormitory life. Approximately twenty freshmen came to Davidson to find that they had
been crowded off campus into temporary quarters. These students thus placed in temporary quarters are not the first to find
themselves in such a situation. In fact, it has become the rule rather than the exception in recent years. In
some cases, the temporary quarters provided are not the most desirable or comfortable. The dormitories proper are not luxurious by
any means, but they are much more suitable than the outlying houses. Perhaps many of these luckless freshmen do not
realize the setback of being so placed. Some may have been to prep school and obtained there a considerable dose
of aversion to dormitory life. Whether or not this is the case, every freshman should make the most out of
his college life. Studies and activities at Davidson, associations in the dorms, and friends made there are all part of
what college means. This is not a slap in the face of the college administration. It is merely our opinion,
and may be taken for what it is worth. We realize fully that the college is doing everything possible to
obtain funds for new buildings, including new dormitory space. On the other hand, would it not be better to restrict
the increasing number of freshmen being admitted to Davidson College until more housing could be obtained? North and South dormitories,
once permanents, have become temporaries, it seems. Added to the list are Club, Sevier’s, and Mooney’s. And there still exist
the inadequate conditions over the old gym. What can be done? Nothing, of course, this year. Perhaps funds will soon
be obtained for the construction of a new dormitory. Otherwise, the only possible course we see is the control of
next year’s freshman class to fit the adequate rooming space.

The First Issue...
We of the staff were considerably disappointed in the initial issue of the paper. Mistakes were all too evident. The
printer played havoc with the directory, but the editorial staff had a hand in other mistakes. However, because of the
conflict between the last night of rush week and the night of publication, there was some excuse. The late arrival
of the shipment of new type was an added inconvenience. Beginning with this issue, however, we hope to free the
paper, as far as possible, from mistakes. To you students, faculty, alumni, trustees, and other readers, we welcome and solicit
your criticisms and suggestions, whatever they may be. Make your criticisms either in written form to the editor, or by
word to the editor, assistant editor, the managing editors, or to the features editor. To the students: Criticize the type,
and turn in all suggestions. To the faculty: Please don't make slighting remarks concerning the paper in the classroom. That
will not improve the paper. Don’t make it a point to chastise every freshman reporter that comes for news unless
you know he is to blame for some error, not a pack of alibis. Davidson College has no journalistic school
to edit its paper nor does it have a press on the campus. The inconveniences and difficulties due to this
make the editing and managing of The Davidsonian no easy task. Bear with us!

The Sunday School...
The remark has been made time and time again that Davidson men are all too indifferent to religious and spiritual
matters. That need not be true. On the Davidson College campus there now exists the most active Sunday School that
has been in session during the last four years. At the end of last year, under the untiring leadership of
Marion Bryant, of the senior class, that organization was a thriving religious group and a moving power for good. It
can continue to be such if the student body continues to co-operate. Freshman, just because you're away from home and
have more freedom, don’t let your religious life fade into the background. The Sunday School programs are interestingly arranged and
presented. Let’s not forget these things.

Bunk About Black...
This bunk that some of the newspapers of our country are printing on Justice Hugo Black because of his presumed
membership in the Ku Klux Klan is enough to make the angels weep. We wonder how a self-respecting journal could
be justified in publishing such cheap copy as Senator Copeland initiates. Doubtless there were sorry deeds that may be laid
at the door of the KKK, back in the days when the organization was beginning. We need not point out
the conditions which brought on those drastic deeds. We do not defend the organization, because it has outlived its usefulness.
But to a Southerner who was reared in the deep South, the KKK symbolizes the attempt to preserve the traditions
of the South. That some of these traditions are deemed bad, we know. We believe, however, that Justice Black is
capable of rendering just decisions. We hope there will be a general awakening on the part of the press as
well as Senator Copeland’s constituents to the fact that the monster he is building out of smoke is a product
of cheap tactics he is employing. That his initiative is obviously an attempt to damage a hard-pressed political strategist is
fully above our opinions.—ED.

With The Staff
Perhaps you are wondering what the meaning of this column is supposed to be. Well, we are too. The editor
just wanted to add a little more work besides the regular routine. The last straw is that he wants it
like the “Asides with the Staff” in the Charlotte Observer. It is about time the Court of Control took some
action about the failure of the freshman class to wear caps and to act like freshmen should. There is a
story in this issue stating that the water tank painting is being investigated—but aren’t they a little slow about it
all? The frosh seem to think that rain is a reason to wear hats instead of caps and the court
hasn't even talked about it. Perhaps they have been busy doing other things, but they were appointed to control the
freshman class and in that way lessen hazing. We hope that by the time this is printed something definite will
have been done. And wasn’t that a fine pep meeting before the Erskine game? Enough for the griping this time...

It is rumored that “Chubby” King’s band got $125 a week and commissions amounting to about $100, besides free rooms,
board, and laundry — but where is it now?

TERRELL PORTER.

Campus Cartoon
JOHNNY MAULBETSCH, MICHIGAN'S GREATEST PLUNGING FULLBACK, GAINED 350 YARDS AGAINST HARVARD IN 1913 WITHOUT SCORING A TOUCHDOWN. EACH TIME HE
TOOK THE BALL TO THE HARVARD GOAL LINE THE QUARTERBACK CALLED SOME OTHER BACK TO CARRY THE BALL OVER. ALL
FAILED AND HARVARD SCORED A 7-0 VICTORY.

A TRIO OF LOCAL GAMBLERS SECURED THE LAND FOR THE FIRST BUILDING OF THE UNIVERSITY OF ARIZONA.

Letters to the Editor
FACULTY ACTION DISAPPOINTING...
Dear Editor:
This letter, written in collaboration by the two undersigned members of the senior class, represents, we believe, the majority opinion
of the students and especially the seniors who have been at Davidson College for three years. Consternation, astonishment, and disappointment
were the effects registered in student discussions on the present scholastic session year devoid of customary social activities. More complete
investigations of the dance controversy have brought to light much disillusionment. The spirit of opposition and rivalry with the faculty
is one of disillusionment. We have spent three years at Davidson — years which we could have looked back upon
with lingering, joyful memories. We would have been proud to recommend it to any prospective student. But now all that
has been destroyed. The faculty, which has consistently been fair in its relations to the student body, dropped its square-shooting
policies when it passed the resolution regarding the dances. We can't help but feel that the action was hasty.and was
based upon inadequate information. But it is not that so much as the fact that the students, usually co-active in
mental policy, had no voice whatsoever in the change. It’s not our purpose to debate the wisdom or foolishness of
the present set-up. That will be done by better-informed others. Ours is not a feeling of resentment—it is rather one
of disappointment. Certain ideals concerning the fairness and the on-the-level actions of officials have been shattered. The senior year should
have been the happiest of the four. But now, student relations with faculty are on an entirely different basis, something
which could have made something. — something which could have made a perfect ending. C. A. McKNIGHT.

NON-DECISION DEBATES...

Dear Dick: While the season is still in its infancy, I should like to ask whom it may concern once
again to think over the situation in regard to this somewhat unsatisfactory system of non-decision debating. The judges rendering no
verdict in inter-collegiate debating has prevailed for several years. In this respect, it is unlike any other activity. What would
a football game be with no points scored for a touchdown, or a band contest with no judgment passed? Non-decision
debating has some fine points, else it undoubtedly would be no more. However, in all justice to its validity, can
two or three boys representing their student body go away for a week or ten days and conscientiously argue their
case with no decision rendered? Shouldn't we, back here in school, know whether our representatives had won or lost? Maybe
it is difficult to render a decision in some instances where both teams are strong. Nevertheless, I should imagine a
debater would rather know that he had lost than have any trace of doubt in his mind. Probably some raw
decisions have been dealt in the past. If that’s the reason for the present system, give me the raw decision,
rather than let me down easily with no decision! R. O. KELLOG.

CORRECTION

The Davidsonian carelessly neglected to credit Dr. W. Edwin Hemphill, of the History Department, with his PhD degree in last
week's story on the new members of the faculty. Dr. Hemphill took his PhD at the University of Virginia last
June. During the 1934-35 scholastic year, he served as Acting Professor of History at Hampden-Sydney College.

State co-eds and ball coaches had a common enemy—Kansas thieves. Co-eds at the girls’ dormitory lost $150, the head coach
lost $19, and the assistant freshman coach lost a watch worth $35. Because the Hitler government allows any German traveler
to take only $4 spending money with him, Christian Otto Winzen came from Germany to the University of Detroit with
just that much cash, although his passage and railroad fare had been paid.

Time Table

Sunday, Oct. 3
10:15 A.M.—Student Sunday School class held in Shearer Hall.
6:30 P.M.—College Vesper Service in Chambers Auditorium, with the Rev. R. L. Alexander of Lumberton as guest speaker.

Monday, Oct. 4
12 Noon—Student meetings will be held in Chambers Auditorium following the regular chapel exercise.
7:00 P.M.—Sigma Pi fraternity meets.

Tuesday, Oct. 5
8:00 P.M.—Eumenean and Philanthropic Literary Societies will have meetings.

Wednesday, Sept. 29
7:15 P.M.—Editorial Staff of The Davidsonian meets at the office.
9:00 P.M.—"Y" Cabinet.

Thursday, Sept. 30
7:00 to 10:00 P.M.—Social fraternities hold weekly meetings.

Friday, Oct. 1
7:15 P.M.—Pep meeting will be held in the gymnasium.

Saturday, Oct. 2
2:30 P.M.—Varsity football game with Duke University on Richardson Field.

Boy! have I got it this week—deadly, disastrous, dazzling, dirt. And I don’t know—and will not print, for a nominal
consideration, what I know. Absolutely unscrupulous, that’s me. Fifteen minutes conversation with campus jibe artists plus natural intuitive curiosity, possessed
in all Davidson Men, will make any column look at mine.

Saturday with Erskine: Wish I could have sat in the stands amid a bevy of femininity—the bench was fine, the
game better, but only contacts were masculine. Reptilian evidences with Doug Neal vying for Helen Williford's charms with Bull Durham
while two others—the Regulars—found solace in each other. Life is so short says Neal. A master Bobbie Ballard with a
lovely “Butch” Steel—who we all wish we knew better. Dick Towil with Dell Southerland, who solicited Louis Hipp for a
tuxedo later. The YMCA with Louisa Hay. Request that all girls refrain from wearing hats decorated with long feathers comes
from one Doty and is addressed in particular to Charles Malone. Virginia Shaver was at the game but Henry Cutchin
searched unceasingly a night in Salisbury. Others seen through binoculars: Jack Lafferty with Dot Hoppe, Charlie Bixler, crutches and all,
with (I’m told) Margaret Calder, David King with Sallie McDowell, Jim Ballard with Helen Cumnock, Dugald Stewart with Wilma Tillet,
Johnnie Patton with Lib Hoppe. Is this a society column or a scandal sheet? Use imagination, please.

Saturday night with me in Davidson... I wonder why... While at Queens; hordes of freshmen descended led by that great
bounder, Marian Bryant three times this past week, I think. Fielding Clark cousining Marguerite and Jean Craven Pennington, of football
fame, Ned Iverson—where is Randolph Bill with the beautiful basso profundo, Macon’s Peggy? Laws, and mobs of little red-capped monsters
lolling over the floor—at least, I hope they wore their caps. Incidentally, freshmen, floors are not usually considered good taste
for the college man unless you've really got something which I hope you had. From reports, what an elegant person
the Dean there must be. I like desks too.

Dear John Chalk: Love he tarries. Just as fate or the fancy carries. Love he comes, and Love he goes.
Can you keep the bee from ranging or the ringdove's ee?

DIDIX.

Darker Side of Charlotte... With Armstead Burwell and Tom Henderson caught red-handed and left short-handed. Robert Abel, Dick Rowdy Taylor,
Springs Pharr with Efird’s at Charlotte Country Club doing something while Bonny Bill and Long John Latimer till four ten.
Brent Greene merrily played as usual while Beaming Bob Kiesewetter spruced up and practiced blowing bubbles for Sunday date with
Jean Stout—Bob, formerly, was a very meek young man. Rea Tenney and Billy Turner from banker table to the back
alleys. Miscellaneous Bob Kelloy from the North, a beer jacket with Walter Kunz drinking cleaning fluid to remove spots. Aqua
Velva Harry Lee Clark with Hoolie Roberts listening to crack, jack band rehearse in Salisbury. Jimmie Currie, Alex James, Buck
Powell, Charlie Parker, Ralph Chandler, Ralph Harkey in Charlotte. Cheerleader Holt, freshman idol, traveling North to Saratoga. Craig “Wade” Barrow
did not sing. And so with bowed head and bursted brain, he lifted his tied fingers from their task, smiled,
and plunged headlong into restless sleep.

Your Film By HENRY B. BAKER

(The film ratings are based upon those of “Time,” “Movie Mirror,” local theater advertising, augmented by the columnist’s own observations).
The alphabetical ratings are: A—Excellent; B—Good; C—Fair; D—Poor.

A “PRISONER OF ZENDA” — Ronald Colman, Madeleine Carroll, Raymond Massey, Douglas Fairbanks, Jr. The story of a kidnapped king,
his fight for freedom, and his battle of wits and swords for the hand of a lovely princess. “Time” says:
“This picture will give cinema addicts a rare good show for their money.”

B “THINK FAST MR. MOTO” — Peter Lorre, Virginia Field. A Chinese detective tries to track down a jewel smuggling
band. The same old detective story plot is used but it furnishes very interesting entertainment.

B “DOUBLE OR NOTHING” — Bing Crosby, Martha Raye and an all-star cast. This picture is below the Bing Crosby
standard and a little dull at times according to the Movie Mirror. The story concerns four people who are after
the property being left by an aged philanthropist.

B “WILD AND WOOLLY” — Jane Withers, Walter Brennan. Silver Screen gives this picture a higher rating, but Davidson students
who generally are not very enthusiastic about Miss Withers. Action in a frontier town begins during a celebration when there
is a sensational bank robbery.

Welcome Students

BOWLING POOL Now in Mooresville ED IKALLS MAIN STREET

HAMILTON CLOTHES IN ... At Home Anywhere... In Any Company - - At Any Time

Campus Representative -Traveling Representative at... Norton Barber Shop Every Wednesday Hamilton Tailoring Co. CINCINNATI - OHIO
