WEDNESDAY, MAY 5, 1937 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Five

Professors Will Scatter During Summer Vacation

Watts to Head European Tour — Beaty to Study in Italy And Germany

HOOD TO VISIT CANADA

Several to Teach at Summer Schools

Soon after the commencement rings down the curtain on Davidson College’s centennial year, Davidson professors will scatter to all corners of the nation, with two venturing as far as Europe.

Conducts Tour

G. B. Watts, head of the French department, will conduct a European tour called “The Beaten Path” under the management of Commonwealth Tours, Inc. This tour will include nine countries and will last forty-seven days. Dr. Watts and his party will sail from New York on June 19, and after visiting the Azores will journey up through Europe from the south, with England and Scotland last. They will return to New York during the latter part of August.

Studies Abroad

E. A. Beaty, professor of classical languages, will study in Rome, Italy, for at least a month, and will spend the remainder of the summer at one of the German universities. He will travel on the Italian Line.

Graduate Work

A number of the members of the faculty will take graduate work at several of the American schools. H. E. Fulcher, of the Physics Department, and J. T. Kimbrough, professor of mathematics, will go to the University of Chicago. Professor Fulcher will leave on June 13, while Professor Kimbrough will be in Chicago only during the last part of the vacation period. E. J. Erwin and Heath Whittle will study at Columbia University in New York. Coach Whittle plans to take his family with him to the metropolis, and after he finishes his work there they will go on to Montreat, N. C., assembly ground of the Southern Presbyterian Church. W. N. Mebane, professor in the Math Department, will go to the University of North Carolina to work toward his degree. Frazer Hood and Mrs. Hood plan to take a two-month trip up into Canada, visiting particularly the old part of Canada. On the way up the Gaspe peninsula, the French (Continued on Page 6)

Warfare Exhibited By R.O.T.C. Department

On Monday afternoon at the regular drill period, the military department put on a demonstration to show the horrors and actual mechanics of warfare. This vivid exhibition, for students and townspeople, was for the purpose of showing the true nature of wars, in the hope that it would instill in them motives of peace. The military department believes that this method is the most practical and effective way to make people want peace. This exhibition was in the form of a sham battle, in which machine guns, an automatic rifle, and a trench mortar were used. The machine guns were fired by the junior members of the R.O.T.C., the automatic rifle by Sergeant Burton, and the trench mortar by Major Siefert. The military department also believes that this should instill into the students the need for trained men to fight if a war should break out.

MRS. WILLIAMS WINS AWARD

Wins Prize of Gold Key for Writing Best Poem in State

POEM USED IN PAGEANT

Includes Short Sonnet “To The Teacher”

Mrs. J. P. Williams, wife of Professor J. P. Williams of the College Business Department, recently won first prize in the state contest, with her poem entitled “The Story of Education in North Carolina.” Mrs. Williams was awarded the adult prize, which consisted of a small gold key, at the last meeting of the State Educational Association. This poem is written in blank verse, and is divided into sections. Each section has a phase of the development of Education in the State. Included in the poem is also a short sonnet, “To The Teacher.” This poem was used in the pageant at Duke, which was recently held, in connection with the program of the advance of education.

BRADLEY LEADS BAND IN ABSENCE OF PFOHL

Student Director In Charge of Band During the Weekly Broadcast

Returning to the air after an absence of one week, the Davidson college band again assumed the major portion of the weekly broadcast Monday night. Harris Bradley, student director, led the group in the absence of Mr. Pfohl. Although the interview was omitted, the program was of the usual type. A Phi Delta Gamma fraternity song was sung by the fraternity quartet and “Across the Field,” a march of Ohio State, continued the college march series. Other numbers, following the “Old Ties” theme, were as follows: “The New Colonial” Hall; “The Black Man” Sousa; “La Golondrina” Serradel; quartet, “Kentucky Babe,” and “My Little Banjo;” “Stars and Stripes Forever” Sousa; “On Wisconsin” Purdy; hymn, “All Hail the Power of Jesus Name.” Last week, while the band was making a tour, the radio program was made up of piano numbers played by Ken Scott, songs by Franklin Riker, an interview with Wilbur Edwards and Teeny Lafferty, and news by Tyler Port.

New Library System

In order to stem a tide of disappearing reserve books at the library, a new system for their control is being set into operation this week. All these books are to be removed from the reference room and placed on new shelves constructed behind the librarian’s desk in the hall. Henceforward, students will be required to sign for reference books just as for others. A new iron gate, enclosing the desk and shelves, has also been erected, thus enabling the reserve books to be locked up, while the reading room is left open over the weekend, at dinner time, and on request.

Well, there are several reasons that a Davidson man wouldn’t want dinner. Open-Faced Suit? No; Cits

NOW and then someone asks why we don’t make the Main Dining Room, where diners dance, a “formal room” for people who want just that service to wear dinner-clothes. Well, there are several reasons. One is that lots of people do. He comes into the city along in the afternoon, does the Tavern, phones about his date and all that long before evening comes. If, then, he still had to change into a Tux he’d regard it as too much. So be sure that you’ll be comfy when you come in for dinner.

HOTEL CHARLOTTE PRESS CONVENTION BANQUET

DR. LINGLE ANNOUNCES VESPER PROGRAM FOR REMAINING SABBATH

Final Program of Sacred Music Will Be May 9

Dr. Lingle has announced the speakers and programs for the coming Vesper Services. On next Sunday, May 9, the various musical organizations under the direction of Professors Thane MacDonald and James Christian Pfohl will render their final program of sacred music for the year. Albert H. McClure, popular Secretary, who is retiring this year to assume a pastorship at Lincolnton, N.C., will be the speaker for the Vesper Services on May 16. May 23 will be the annual Communion Service for the college, and it will be conducted by Dr. Price H. Gwynn of the Psychology Department of the faculty. This is a most impressive service and will be the final vespers before examinations. As yet a minister has not been secured, but it will be announced in the near future. On the following Sunday, June 6, the 1937 graduating exercises of the college will begin.

ILLUSTRATED SHOW GIVEN BY CHEMISTS

In the chemistry building last Friday night the chemistry department presented a picturesque show for students interested in chemistry and physics. The selections presented were “The Evolution of the Oil Industry,” “Glimpses of Texas,” and “The Benefactor,” which dealt with the early life of Thomas Edison. “The Evolution of the Oil Industry” was the first and showed how oil was obtained from oil seepage on the earth’s surface, the drilling of the first oil well, and the great difficulties that were run into due to the lack of adequate equipment. Then the great improvements in the development of the oil industry were shown.

DAVIDSON VILLAGE COUNTS FINE CENTURY

Present Administration Has Made Progress in Many Fields

ALL VOICE OPINION

Village Government Now Differs From Old Days

The centennial of Davidson College also marks the centennial of the town of Davidson, and in its way the town has made equal progress with the college. When, under the original charter, the two corporations were one, with the name of “The Town of Davidson College,” students who had attained their majority were allowed to vote, and great were the tribulations attending that privilege.

Serious Prank

One year the students, being dissatisfied with the town officials, held a mass meeting and nominated for mayor the village half-wit. It was thought up until the last minute that the students’ candidate would win—so efficient was their campaign management. No one knows exactly what happened; however, the “dark horse” disappeared forever. Also notable in the early daysof Davidson that the six miles per hour speed limit was a fact, and that it was contrary to law to possess guns, pistols, and firecrackers. Present town officials are: Mayor, J.T. Griffith; Clerk, J.T. Thompson; Treasurer, John Jetton; Commissioners: C.A. Potts, W.W. Wood, and John Raymer. Almost every individual element of industry, agriculture, and commerce is represented. The college also has a voice on the town board. (Continued on Page 6)

NEW MEN INDUCTED BY DRAMATIC FRAT

The Alpha Psi Omega, honorary dramatic fraternity, held their annual spring initiation on last Friday night in the faculty room of Chambers building. At the initiation, three seniors and four juniors were taken into the society. The seniors initiated include Howard Covington, Salty Peters, and Frank Poe. The juniors were Mac Covington, Chubby King, Hector McGeachy, and Jimmy Wilson. Dick Vowles was bid but unable to be present because of O.D.K. initiation. One more meeting is planned before the close of the current year. This meeting will probably be held jointly with the Red and Black Masquers.

SUNDAY IS MOTHER’S DAY
Remember Her
White Drug Store
Stationery Cards

James Mason, past president, presided. W.O. Saunders, of Elizabeth City, was the chief speaker of the evening. (Courtesy Charlotte Journalists made merry at this banquet of the North Carolina Collegiate Press Association, at their spring convention, held in High Point on April 23-24.)

SCABBARD AND BLADE SPONSORING MILITARY BALL ON FRIDAY NIGHT
Elaborate Figure to Be Feature of Dance

Scabbard and Blade, national military fraternity, will sponsor a military ball Friday night. Intensive plans have been made for this ball according to J.E. Branch, president of the group. Branch stated that an elaborate figure, put on by the members of the fraternity, would be the feature of the dance. Branch stated that this would be “an elaborate, unusual, military figure, much different from figures presented at other dances.” This figure will be led by Branch, with Miss Dorothy Bagwell of Atlanta, Ga.; Major W.S. Edwards, with Miss Jane Holman of Charlotte; and Captain Finley with Miss Mary Gwyn Williams of North Wilkesboro. A number of honorary members of Scabbard and Blade, along with military leaders of this area, have been invited to attend.

Lieutenant Colonel Branch also stated that on Friday, May 7, Scabbard and Blade would present a medal to the most outstanding freshman in R.O.T.C. This man will be selected by the senior officers and will be presented at the parade on Friday.

STUDENTS' LETTERS FLOOD POST OFFICE
Approximately 5,000 pieces of mail are handled each day at the Davidson Post Office. About 60 per cent of this mail goes to the students and to the offices of the college. When interviewed, Mr. Stough, postmaster, stated that the receipts for the month of April exceeded all other receipts for the same month in the past. The total receipts were $1,232.77. Also, he stated that the receipts for the year up to May 1 were 12 per cent higher than that of last year. This, he declared, is due probably to the centennial program. Mail is received at 6:30, 9:18, 10:52, 1:00, 1:51, and 7:23. The mail leaves at 8:45, 10:20, 12:30, 1:20, and 5:30. Mail is heaviest on Mondays and (Continued on Page 6).

MANY ALUMNI PLAN REUNION
Graduates of Davidson Will Assemble For Celebration In June
OCTOGENARIAN COMES
Two Members of Famous Hall Family to Attend

Letters from all over the country are pouring into Fred Smith’s office these days. They are from alumni promising to come to the Centennial program June 6-8, and asking for information about that program. Fred Smith stated that from the letters coming into his office, practically every class which now has a living representative will be present for this celebration. Mr. E. Scabbard and Blade will hold its 50th reunion. Two of the leading members of this reunion are J.P. Hall and his brother, Rev. J.K. Hall, both of Belmont. Their father was one of the original founders of Davidson. The class of 1897 is planning to hold its 40th anniversary reunion, with Professor Archibald Currie and Dr. R.E. Kirkpatrick in charge of organizing this reunion. Rev. E. McGukin is also working on the organization of a reunion for the class of 1922. The class of 1927 will have its tenth annual get-together at the celebration. W. Covington Jr., of Charlotte, is in charge of their reunion.

Dr. W.L. Lingle Addresses Three Groups Last Week
Speaks at Graduation of Alexander Graham Jr. High In Charlotte
IS HEARD IN SALISBURY
Accompanies Shepard and Smith to Atlanta

During the past week, Dr. W.L. Lingle, president of the college, has made several talks to audiences in Charlotte, Salisbury, and Atlanta, Ga. On Thursday, April 29, Dr. Lingle made an address at the Alexander Graham Junior High School in Charlotte in connection with the graduation and promotion exercises of the honor students. In Salisbury, Dr. Lingle conducted a special service at the First Presbyterian Church. He stated that it is Maxwell Chambers, a Davidson College graduate and member of the First Presbyterian Church of Salisbury, who has always been a strong connection between that church and Davidson College. Last Tuesday, Dr. Lingle attended a meeting of Davidson alumni in Atlanta. Mr. N.W. Shepard and Conrad Fredrick Smith also accompanied Dr. Lingle to Atlanta to meet with the alumni of that city.

Humorous Trial Held
The regular meeting of the Philanthropic Literary Society was held last night in the Phi Hall. A mock trial was staged, in which Jim Gailey was accused of “cheek chucking” during the Junior Speaking dance. Results of this trial could not be learned as this paper went to press. Usual routine matters were also taken up.

FOOTBALL CLINIC IS GIVEN BY COACHES
Illustrated Motion Pictures to Be Shown on Friday Night

Tuesday and Friday evenings at 7:30, the Davidson College coaching staff, headed by Gene McEver, are holding a “football clinic” in the gymnasium for all who desire to attend. Lectures, accompanied by a few illustrations, compose the principal content of these classes, which began a few weeks ago. Coach McEver announced that moving pictures would probably be shown next Friday night instead of the usual lecture, for the benefit of those planning to go out for football next year. Any student wishing to attend may do so. The clinic is principally for the benefit of those planning to go out for football next year, but any student wishing to attend may do so. The classes will continue for approximately two more weeks, after which they will be discontinued.

Is it from Shakespeare? It is better to have loved and lost than never to have loved at all.

Good Printing
Quick Service
Profits

Have us place your printing on the same high standard as your records.

ENVELOPES, BILL HEADS, BLOTTERS, LETTER HEADS, TYPEWRITER LETTERS, VOICES, ENCLOSURES, ETC.
STANDARD PRINTING
117 Garland Court, Charlotte, N.C.

PALM BEACH CRAVATS
The greatest answer to “What’s Summer’s best neckwear idea?”
$1 Bows, 75c
J.B. Ivey & Co.