Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN

The Davidsonian
Founded By the Class of 1915

1936 Member 1937
Associated Collegiate Press
Distributors of Collegiate Digest

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON Ave New York, N.Y.
CHICAGO - BOSTON - SAN FRANCISCO
LOS ANGELES - PORTLAND - SEATTLE

Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1877

DICK VOWLES Editor-in-Chief
R. H. ROBINSON Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
Owen Bell Managing Editor
Calvin McMurry Managing Editor
Wesley Coghill Managing Editor
Terrell Porter Managing Editor
Perry Sloan Managing Editor
Bill Marquess Sports Editor
Owen Cooke Associate Editor
Sam Cothran Society Editor
Richard Fant Associate Editor
Hector McGeachy Associate Editor
Yates Parson Associate Editor
Sam Ryburn Associate Editor
Henry Lawler Copy Reader

BUSINESS STAFF
Wilson Lowrance Circulation Manager
Ralph Chandler Circulation Manager
Charles Moore Collection Manager
Advertising Manager
Asst. Business Manager

Carlyle once reminded us that in any controversy the instant we feel anger we have already ceased striving for truth, and have begun striving for ourselves. — Carlyle

We extend our sincerest sympathy to Charles Mauze in the recent loss of his father, Rev. Dr. J. L. Mauze.

QUEENS VISITS ...
As The Davidsonian went to press, there was no direct indication as to the success of Queens Davidson Day, but everything seemed to point in that direction. The idea is decidedly new to Davidson, and for that reason we heartily commend it. Anything new at Davidson is a good thing, within certain bounds. It would seem that the student body as a whole should enter into the project wholeheartedly as Tyler Port and Joe Huber stressed in chapel. However, preceding the arrival of the Queens girls, there was a good deal of dissension and “griping” about the blind date idea. This shows a decidedly poor spirit among Davidson students, for after all, this business is not a life and death matter. Every Queens girl probably felt the same apprehension. Our hats off to the hard-working committee in charge. The handling of activities for some three hundred girls and their dates is no small task and we do not envy those committeemen in the least.

* * *

CAMPUS CARE...
Mr. Hobart and his efficient grounds workers have carried out an excellent piece of work, in putting the campus in tiptop shape before the alumni return for the Centennial. Tree surgeons have been hard at work, removing dead trees and pruning diseased ones. Grass has also been planted in those bare places scattered here and there over the campus.

PAGEANT DIFFICULTIES ...
The College undertook a project of no mean proportions when it plunged into the putting on of a pageant. This fact has been thoroughly emphasized, and the forthcoming production has been given a great deal of advance publicity by The Davidsonian. However, mistakes that have been made in other pageants of a similar nature have been called to our mind continually by fellow students with a feeling of apprehension as to the success of the undertaking. Probably the greatest danger in the production of a pageant is that it will be too long and drawn out. According to Mr. Viehman, nothing like this will happen. Insufficient or poorly directed lighting has carried many a pageant to failure, while bad amplification has ruined others. In some instances whole sections of such systems have gone dead. In other cases, the broadcast sounds have been out of phase. In other words, the technical facilities must be perfect. Other undertakings of such a nature have also been criticized for the congestion backstage, but if proper preparation is made and more than one stage is used, as is to be the case here, this difficulty will be eliminated. However, we believe that Mr. Viehman and his faculty and student aides will handle the work efficiently. These above ideas are merely suggestions from various members of the student body and faculty.

STAFF ELECTIONS ...
Would you like to choose the captain of the football team by popular election? or any other team for that matter? Yet the student body as a whole has ample opportunity to watch athletic teams perform. While on our publication where skill and ability count most, the student body has scant occasion to see or judge abilities of the candidates for editorship. Watch for further comment on this!

CHEMISTRY LAB ...
Time and time again, the needs of the campus have been stressed before faculty, students, alumni, and friends in the hope that some donation might be obtained for the erection of much-needed buildings. Among those buildings needed has been mentioned a new and modern chemistry laboratory, but we do not believe this need has been sufficiently expressed. The present laboratory with its crowded conditions, its acid-eaten benches, its insufficient equipment, and poor facilities is not enough to imbue any budding chemist with the desire to pursue chemistry as a profession. Here lies an opportunity for some enterprising alumnus or friend whose interests lie in the field of chemistry.

Make Davidson's Centennial Program a Success!

Campus Comments

When the final curtain was pulled down on a rather successful season of collegiate competition in the winter sports, our eyes were naturally turned toward the spring sports. Our teams started off in a breeze, overwhelming some powerful foes, but in the first home games they met some stiff competition coupled with a streak of bad luck and were thrown on the losing end.

Now we have some very fine athletes on the teams which are representing us in spring sports. We would just do our part to give them confidence. But if we are going to allow outside visitors to outnumber the student supporters in the stadium how can we help our own classmates in winning their games? And furthermore what impression are we giving the public of that “Wildcat Spirit” which has carried Davidson teams so far in the past? It is a known fact that all of us cannot be present at every game in which our teams play because of conflicts in other sports, classes, etc., but it is quite clear that we could have a much better representation than we have had in the past. It seems that there have been more at the intramural games than at the inter-collegiate games oftentimes, and of course it is perfectly natural for a student to want to support his class or fraternity in that field. But which means the most to the development of Davidson and the future of the “Wildcat Spirit?” Wouldn't it be possible to postpone these intramural activities to days when our teams were not playing here on the campus and thereby allow all of us to offer our support when OUR teams do play here and expect that support? Gentlemen, if OUR teams ever needed any support, they need it now. Put yourselves in their shoes. How do you think you would feel to be playing an important game to an empty stadium? They represent us, so let's do our part! If our team gets a little behind, don't get up and walk out with that disappointed look on your face. After all, winning the game is just secondary and “playing” the game is essential to the true Davidson man, and that is where all of us can do our part!

Signed: FRED DENNIS.

P.S.—I request Wade Barrow, President of the rising Senior Class, to write Campus Comments for next week.

Make Davidson's Centennial Program a Success!

A new way to kill time has been invented by students at Northern Illinois State Teachers’ College. They draw a circle representing a clock and hands. At five-minute intervals they ink out the sections around the dial. At the end of the hour it is completely filled.

“Pun Revival Week” was originated a short time ago by Dr. William Patterson, professor of mathematics. The reviving of old puns will sharpen the wit and lend credence to the blur which represents the calculus in most sophomore minds, he explained.

An anonymous contribution from Adrian College: “Going around with women keeps me young. I started going with them four years ago when I was a freshman... and I’m still a freshman.”

Make Davidson’s Centennial Program a Success!

DAVID MEARS, BUTLER UNIVERSITY, EARNS AS HE LEARNS
TWO TEXAS TECH BROTHERS LASSO BOBCATS FROM HORSEBACK AND SELL THEM TO THE EXPERIMENTAL LABS
THOUSANDS OF STUDENTS AT A LOS ANGELES RELIEF SCHOOL ARE PAID TO GO TO SCHOOL - AND DOCKED IF THEY CUT CLASSES

By AL CADE

Just about ten days until what is officially known as Bowery Ball. And this set promises to be the best, all-round thing ever enjoyed at Davidson. We Centennials think this year has been the ne plus ultra in Davidson's one hundred years of progress. For a century Davidson has possessed a nationally-known and unique reputation for educational and spiritual qualities. And during the past several years it has been becoming more and more interested in promoting a clean, wholesome, and essential social life for its students. Dancing, a controversial subject, is a delightful and entertaining phase of social activity and Davidson dances are kept on a high plane and of fine quality because of the Davidson gentlemen who sponsor and attend them. Let’s keep them that way! There will be two tea dances this time and there is a special request to support the Friday afternoon dance so it will be continued in the future. Whether you are a Goop or a Smoothie let’s get the drag of your choice lined up, whip over to the Armory and make it a Good Thing. What say?

Chivy Chivy .... The finest week-end we've heard of was Junior-Seniors at N.C. C. W. Perry Sloan was very swank in the Figure and Goof Cooke swears he didn’t get stuck at the girl-break. Tom Thurston, Fred Dennis, Buck Powell, Holmes Hansel, and Jeff Moore going hog-wild to Earl Mellen’s music. And Marietta was the most lovely blind date and the most superb dancer on the floor, Selah. Gil Patmor, Paul McGarrity, Marshall Sanford, Billy Crooks, and Julian Squires sitting in on Law class at music meet. Billy French, Bill Burch, and Hayseed Thomas christening an innovation at G.C. banquet. Bob Anders and Alan Parker playing around Greensboro and Bill Ross to High Point. And did “give my love to Bill” mean John Doty or Henry Lyon? Captain Ivan the Terrible Carlson has been mopping them up on recent tennis trips. Dick Towill needed one when he was relieved of his bathrobe in front of the Stud Store. Dick Howie has begun powdering his nose. Roger Melton had an acute attack of berserk when the track bus left Knoxville without him. Dunny Covington, Bill Seifert, and Jimmy Ballard to Washington to experiment with some fuses, and refuses. Joe Kellam, Dave King and Jim Wilson—entertaining the A.D. Pi’s at Queens. Polk and Sandy Moffett, Gil Palmer, Pete Marchant, David Sprunt, Joe Hunter, Bob Abell, and George Richmond to Converse for Jimmy Poyner hop. And Ellwood Moyer has a beautiful shiner. Worth Sprunt, Jack Branch, Foxy Tonnison, and T. C. Crowell on house party at Wilmington. Needlenose Breeden whipped down to South Carolina but was rained out. Viger Jim with Pidge at Queens checking up on the chickens. And who was Dick Vowles' very left debt at the press convention? Why is Bud Ingram called “Abie the Fishman?” Charlie Mashburn picking camellias down by the riverside. Graham Squires to High Point for old time's sake. Mark Lillard and Georgia Underwood decorating Three-Camera Jake Houston's shirt front in the Tavern. And Howard Covington also down by the riverside doing a Pavlova. Ken Knorr, Pinkney Stowe, Bull Durham, and Jim Sample to Staunton and some prep-school hops to sign the boys up. Bill Rader and T. P. to Duke and Speedy Turner being dominated by a Yankee babe who was not the intramural wrestling champ as rumored. Hugh Gracey also among the Dukes. Butch Harper and Jeffrey Philander Moore to St. Mary’s who was not so contrary after all. Hector McGeachy to Salem and impressed with the architectural beauty here and there. Some people seem to think the Supreme Court isn't the only organization possessing nine old men but although our baseball team has been rather unfortunate at times, it is a good one and deserves our support. Let’s cut the belly-aching and give it the encouragement to win. What say? And about this proposed course in Public Speaking. Are you the shy type or are you just not interested? Doubling for Caspar Milquetoast will never help arouse interest in this definitely Good Thing. Unless enough are interested to justify its existence it will not even be considered. And why should it? Speaking ability is a very advantageous asset in any line of endeavor. Wednesday night and through Thursday there will be a list on the bulletin board of Georgia dormitory of all those who wish to take a course in Public Speaking next year if it is offered. All those who are interested come by and sign up, and assist in getting this course on the list of courses offered at Davidson.

real dope

DAVIDSON THEATER

Thursday, April 29
Song of the City—
A story of the Italian fisherfolk who run the crabbing fleet out of San Francisco Bay. Margaret Lindsay and Nat Pendleton the leading roles.

Friday, April 30
Too Many Wives—
A marital mixup which is chuck full of fun and entertainment. A picture with a good plot and fine acting.

Saturday, May 1
China Passage—
A picture of thrills and excitement. You will see murder, mystery, and romance during a trip from Shanghai.

Mon.-Tues. May 3-4
The Old Soak—
Wallace Beery, Janet Beecher, and Judith Barrett do a fine bit of acting in this picture which has its setting in a typical small town.

Wednesday, May 5
King of Gamblers—
The game of gambling is shown at its best in this fast-moving picture that will hold your interest to the very end.

NUTSHELL
By JIM MORTON

If you are ever in Charlotte on a Saturday night and wish to amble back to Davidson by taxi, hail one which has the taxi-driver and his girl. Nine times out of ten that cab will bring you home for $1.50. While the lone wolf charges $3.00. The cab drivers enjoy trekking up here and most of all, the return trip. The aurora will be breaking and the tired chauffeur views again after a heckling day with love, contentment and the starry sky.

NOTES OF PRESS NITES...
Six pestiferous personages of our Publications parted ways with work for the High Point Press caucus last week.

OPEN FORUM
GREEK AND BARBARIAN

“Davidson is famed for its democratic spirit.” But there is one division among the students here that one is not supposed to discuss. That is the division between Greek and non-Greek. Except for Y. M. C. A. or Ministerial Band news, the whole Davidsonian might be entitled “Among the Greeks.” Nothing is ever said about this distinction because the fraternity man isn't conscious of it, and the non-fraternity man is afraid of being called “sour grapes” or something else along that line if he says anything about fraternity men being undemocratic. This is a news item: There are a few men of some worth among the non-fraternity group. Now this fact is not recognized by all fraternity men. One told me in so many words that there weren't any non-fraternity men that were any good—not at least for the job for which he was nominating a fraternity brother (no, I didn’t challenge him to a duel. He didn't know any better). One reason why the fraternity men are outstanding at Davidson is because they receive the backing and encouragement of their fraternity brothers in getting into activities. This is an inestimable advantage. But why doesn’t somebody try giving a few non-fraternity men such a deal? But when someone recently suggested an organization to help non-fraternity men get into things everybody lifted up their hands in horror. “Politics!” No, we don't believe in Politics at Davidson. We just don’t give the barbarians any but a nominal part in student life because—well, because they're barbarians, that’s why!—R.A.T.

Education—
College is the four years between school and the CCC camps.

STOLEN THUNDER
By DAYMOND TURNER

Shep Fields—
Johnny—What is that gurgling noise?
Jane—I’m trying to swallow that line you're throwing.

College Students—
Let’s flip a coin. If it’s heads we'll go to the movies, tails we'll go to the dance, and if it stands on edge, we'll study our lessons.

Time Marches On!—
Office manager: So you want to get off today? I suppose your grandmother died.
Jerry: No, sir, she eloped.

Modern Proverbs—
A bird in the hand is bad table manners.
A fool and his money are some party.
If you want to remember things, tie a string around your finger. If you want to forget things, tie a rope around your neck.
If a woman has been loved, hated, and envied; her life was worth living.

Definitions—
Man—The only animal that can be skinned more than once: favorite sport.
Volt—Cast a ballot.
Celt—Exchange for money.
Sphere—A long pointed weapon.
Skunk—Kitty with B. O.
Vacuum—Nothing shut up in a container.
Molar Solution—Listerine.

More Poetry—
Sing a song of nonsense,
A tummy full of rye;
Four and twenty students
Loaded to the eye.
When the eyes are opened
On the following morn,
The students all wish
They had never been born.

Baseball Spice—
Reporter—What shall I say about those peroxide blondes who made such a fuss at the ball game?
Editor—Say the bleachers went wild.

Polarization—
Admiral—By res Notes of press nites, taken on the cuff, start at 7:00 P.M. and terminate at 5:00 A.M. Our man Overton opened purchasing agent for Student Store in High Point with an influx of three bottles of tomato juice, mints, and joined the ranks of Dentyne chewers. Don Juan of Davidson as unanimously proclaimed by the Queen of Meredith, and it was a Suiter for him. “Ah, sweet mystery of life, at last I've found her.” and the Scripts 'n Pranks pranked on into the night...

“Don Juan”
“This is Mrs. Norfleet's son, Casanova Norfleet,” echoed a voice over the telephone in Room 907. To carnival and early morning arrival with cane, glasses, and classified expression. “I'll huff, I'll puff, I'll blow this door in,” said a man of business. And was promptly answered, “George the dawn is breaking, my heart is aching.” ... A ducking we shall go said Dick Vowles and slushed water in poor George's morning face. ... Hoke Robinson, veteran pressolyte, pulled a party for graduating press potentiates with glittering girls and glamour for all. Hoke thinks “press conventions are a wonderful institution, especially with E. C. T.” Pee Wee Peters saved the day with his blind beggar bows. And Femmes fought for Sam Ryburn. “What we didn't do is fit to print” lulled sleepy Sam. Public politician Dick Vowles filched the treasurer's position. He was like the man who went to the beach and didn’t go swimming. Ruth Knee, Lib Maynard and Georgia Underwood of Queens, Sis Terry, Maggie Crumpler, Nancy Powell, Kate Mills Suiter, and Lillian Poe sang the songs for pressdom from the girl colleges.

In Memoriam...
The Queens-Davidson date committee escaped last night to Pocahontas, Mississippi, and points unknown, under a barrage of tomato cans, family names, and bottles. One, Walter Dickson, sneaked in the Queens bus under the guise of a lady and hasn't been heard of since. Last rites and ritualistic details will bemoan the lamentable death of Joseph Hunter, matcher of mates. L. K. Hill, with a sweeping blow of his proboscis fatally wounded Hunter, the quarrel resulting from the pairing of one Flossy Sniklefuzz with Hill, who was also indicted as aiding and abetting.

Lafferty Chosen To Head Physics Frat
Martin (Teeny) Lafferty, incoming president of the student body, was elected to the presidency of the local chapter of Sigma Pi Sigma, national honorary Physics fraternity. Lafferty succeeds the retiring president, W. A. Douglas. Milton Crisp was elected to fill the position of vice-president. He takes over the position formerly held by George Hornbeck. W. A. Page was elected to fill the secretary-treasurership left vacant by the election of Crisp to the vice presidency.