WEDNESDAY, APRIL 28, 1937 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Frosh Debate Tourney Completed Last Thursday

Best Debater to Be Picked This Week; Judges to Base Selection on Delivery, Speech Content, and General Appearance

The Davidson College Freshman debating team completed on Thursday of last week a three-day tournament which was conducted to select the best debater of the group of six men. This is the first year that such a tournament has been held here; in the past, the freshmen have had regular debate schedules.

The first of the series of debates was held in Dr. Brown's classroom on Tuesday night. The query discussed, “Resolved that Congress should be empowered to fix minimum wages and maximum hours,” is the same query discussed by the varsity debate team. George Milne and Jack Holland were the affirmative speakers, and Bob Ramsey and Dick Kenyon were speakers for the negative. The decision was rendered in favor of the negative team by the two judges, Charles Mauze and Ken McLean.

On Wednesday, the second of the series was held in the Eumenean Hall, and Dick Kenyon and Bob Kellogg, representing the affirmative, defeated Jack Holland and Paul Marion, negative. The judges of the contest were Joe Calvin, John Allen, and Harold Sugg.

The final debate was held Thursday night in the Eumenean Hall. Kellogg and Milne were the speakers for the negative side, and they defeated Marion and Ramsey, affirmative speakers. The judges for this final contest were Bob Stewart and Charles Mauze.

The best debater will be chosen from this group by all the judges of the three contests. A system of points will be used in this selection. The speakers received a certain number of points for delivery, for speech content, and for general appearance, and the speaker having the most points will be the winner. The winner will be announced sometime this week.

ORGANIZATION SELECT HEADS

Julian Helms, Ralph Chandler, and Bill Laws to Lead Groups

ELECTED LAST WEEK

Musicians Also Select Lower Rank Officers

Each of the three Davidson College musical organizations recently elected their officers for the coming year, according to Professor J. C. Pfohl. Julian Helms succeeds Harris Bradley as president of the Symphonic Band for next year. Gilbert Palmer and Billie Crooks are the new vice-president and secretary-treasurer, respectively.

Ralph Chandler was chosen to head the Glee Club for next year, while Bill Miller, as vice-president, and Lee Ogburn, as secretary-treasurer, are the other new officers. Chandler will hold the position that Charles Ramseur filled last year.

The members of the Little Symphony Orchestra elected Bill Laws as their president to succeed Bill Link. Other new officers of this organization are Ellard Yow, vice-president, and Warren Ludlam, secretary-treasurer.

What A Sight—

Doctors— M.D.—Moderately dull. D.D.—Definitely dull. Ph.D.—Phenomenally dull.

She was only an optician’s daughter—two glasses and she made a spectacle of herself.

Flapping in the Breeze—

“Do you hear something?” “No.” “That’s funny, I’m talking to you.”

Library Displays Recent Commemorative Stamps

Prof. Kimbrough, Harmon Woodward Lend to Exhibit

In the display case in our library is a varied and excellent display of unused United States stamps in blocks and sheets. A large number belong to Harmon Woodward, a senior, and some to Professor J. T. Kimbrough. This assortment of stamps should be of great interest, not only to stamp collectors, but the student body as a whole.

There are a great number of imperforate souvenir sheets which have been especially popular under Postmaster General James J. Farley. All of these commemorate some historic event or personage in United States history or some event that is to take place, such as Mother's Day. In this collection, there are the unused stamps which have been most recently issued. It is the Army-Navy series of 1937. There are two more yet to be issued, however. They are to be the five-cent Army stamp depicting West Point, and the five-cent Navy stamp depicting the Naval Academy at Annapolis.

There is also the National Parks set, which ranges from one to ten cents. These have scenes from the National Park which they are celebrating by issuing that series of stamps. Those who intend to investigate this display are asked to note the imperforate blocks referred to as “Farley Imperforates.” In the Airmail collection, there are displayed a series of China Clipper Stamps. The twenty-cent, twenty-five cent, and fifty-cent Airmail stamps have been issued for trans-Pacific mail to Hawaii, the Philippines, and China. These were loaned by Professor J. T. Kimbrough.

Sunday, May 9, is MOTHER’S DAY GIVE HER CANDY FROM White Drug Co. DRUGS SODAS SUNDRIES

Good Printing Pays Good Profits

Preparations for the Davidson College Centennial Pageant continue to move forward under the direction of Theodore Viehman, New York City promoter. Above Mr. Viehman is shown presenting the layout for the pageant on Richardson Field. Prof. F. K. Fleagle, chairman of the pageant committee, is shown on the left, and Myron W. McGill, who will have charge of the seating arrangements, is shown on the right. (Courtesy Charlotte News).

Spring social functions are numerous among the Greeks. Weekend parties and individual members are looking forward to the coming set of dances.

Beta Theta Pi

Bill Burch attended the freshman-sophomore dances at Greensboro College. Charlie Peyram spent the weekend in Belmont. Tom Abbett and Dave Warden went with the track team to Maryville. Gales McClintock went with the freshman team to Clinton. The regular feed was held Sunday night.

Pi Kappa Alpha

Jim Anderson and “Lovey Dovey” Coultrane went to Converse. Brother Dave McMillan is back in school. John H. Reisner was pledged at the last meeting. Phil Sacha spent the weekend with Ken Knorr in Staunton. Bob McClelland went to Johnson City.

Kappa Alpha

The fraternity will stage its spring house party at Roaring Gap this weekend. Prof. and Mrs. Johnston, and Mr. and Mrs. McGarrity of Charlotte will chaperon. Fred Dennis went to W. C. U.N.C. Bob Abell, Polk and Sandy Moffett, Dave Sprunt, and Tom Perrin went to Spartanburg. Sam Spencer went to Hollins. John Anderson is in New York. Coot Gladden went to Chester, Bill Preyer to Greensboro, and Worth Sprunt to Wilmington.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon

At a feed Sunday night, Prof. and Mrs. Johnston, and Prof. and Mrs. Davidson were special guests. Ed Armfield went home to Asheboro. Hoke Robinson attended the college press association meeting in High Point. Brothers Mills, Fryfogle, and Marchant made their usual trip to Greenville. Buck Powell attended dances at Greensboro.

Kappa Sigma

Hector McGeachy attended N. C. State dances in Raleigh, and Carl Hudson went to Hollins. Louis Hipp was visited by his brother, Charlie. Carl Carlson and Charlie Yates went to Greensboro.

Pi Kappa Phi

A party was held at the fraternity house Friday night, at which fifteen girl guests were present. Joe Dunlap, Covington, and Jim Ballard went to Washington. Ralph Chandler and Bidwell Ivey went home. Brother Fred Renfrow of Furman visited the brothers over the weekend. The Duchess of York visited the chapter Sunday night.

Phi Gamma Delta

Elmore Holt, Arthur Cooke, and John Bolin went to Greensboro. Johnson from Knoxville is visiting Brothers Stale and Bolin. George Richmond attended dances at Converse.

Phi Delta Theta

Tommy Glenn went to Greenville. Brothers Tomlinson and Branch went to Wilmington. Jelly McClelland went to Athens with the golf team.

Sigma Phi Epsilon

The spring house party is to be held the weekend of the 15th at the Lions Club near Statesville. Jeff Mooreattended junior-speaking dances at W. C. U. NOC. and a dance at St. Mary's in Raleigh. Walker Vilarper also went to St. Mary's. Dick Vowles attended the convention at High Point. Bill Rader, and attended dis- press Speedy Turner. Porter the Prof. and Mrs. L. E. K. Fulcher entertained the seniors at supper Monday night. Terrell

DEMONSTRATION WILL BE GIVEN ROTC UNIT

Headquarters of the local R. O. T. C. unit is considering the presentation of the annual “Peace Demonstration” on Monday afternoon, May 3. The “Peace Demonstration” is a regular activity of the local unit which aids in portraying to the students the realities of war. The exhibition will show the use and the deadly effect of the trench mortar, machine gun, and automatic rifle. Major Seifert will be in charge of the demonstration and will personally fire the three-inch trench mortar which is a part of the equipment of the local unit. The machine gun fire will be in the hands of the members of the first-year Advanced R. O. T. C. course. Sergeant Burton will demonstrate the automatic rifle used by the U. S. Regular Army.

BOWLING BILLIARDS!

Rex Recreation and 20th Century Bowling Air-Conditioned Year Round

EU ELECTS OFFICERS AT MEETING TUESDAY

Vowles, Mawhinney, Webb, And Gilliam Named as New Officers

FITZ DADE MADE CRITIC

Men to Be Installed At Next Meeting

At the last meeting of the Eumenean Literary Society on Tuesday evening, April 20, the election of officers was held. The officers elected were as follows: Dick Vowles, president; John Mawhinney, vice-president; Sam Webb, treasurer; Dan Gilliam, secretary; and Fitz Dade, Critic. These officers will be installed at the next regular meeting which will be held on May 6. At this meeting, all officers were elected, Bill Rader made an impromptu talk. Dick Vowles is a member of the rising senior class and has recently been elected editor of The Davidsonian. He has been engaged in active work in the Eumenean Society for the past three years.

Page Five

FACULTY MEMBERS OF COLLEGE ATTEND EDUCATIONAL MEET

Social Fraternities Announce Sponsors

Sponsors for the nine different social fraternities have been selected and announced. These pictures will appear in the '37 edition of the Quips and Cranks, edited by John Abernethy. Sponsors for the fraternities are: Phi Kappa Alpha, Miss Mary McBrayer; Beta Theta Pi, Miss Gag Giethart; Sigma Alpha Epsilon, Miss Elizabeth Gammon; Kappa Alpha, Miss Grace Hambrick; Delta Kappa Phi, Miss Styth Thomas; Sigma Phi Epsilon, Miss Jane Ellen Taylor; Phi Gamma Delta, Miss Mary Dorcas Harding; Phi Delta Theta, Miss Rosa Williams; Kappa Sigma, Miss Beda Carlson. Editor Abernethy stated that if anyone had any snapshots, he would be glad to receive them in his room anytime in the future.

WARD IS CHOSEN FOR NEW PROFESSOR

Will Take Place of McGavock, Who Is on Leave

During the continued absence of Professor William G. McGavock, who is pursuing graduate work toward his Doctor's degree, Davidson College has employed Mr. J. Ward to assist in mathematics next session. Mr. Ward graduated from Davidson in 1931 receiving a B.A. degree “cum laude” with mathematics as his major. During the years 1932-1935, he held a teaching fellowship in mathematics at Louisiana State University where he received his Master of Arts degree. Since 1935 he has studied mathematics at the University of Wisconsin while serving as an assistant professor there. He has completed the major part of his work toward his Doctor's degree. Mr. Ward is married and has one child. He comes to Davidson highly recommended. Professor McGavock is on a two-year leave of absence. This year no one was employed in his place consequently the department of mathematics has been somewhat crowded. Mr. Ward's appointment is only temporary to relieve this congestion.

Honorary Societies Meet

Sigma Delta Pi

Sigma Delta Pi, honorary Spanish fraternity, and the Spanish club, composed of second and third-year Spanish students, met together in a joint meeting last Wednesday night. Professor Fleagle presented some papers from the national headquarters of Sigma Delta Pi. After the members of the junior society had retired from the hall, the chapter voted to invite John Blue and C. R. Moore to join the fraternity. New officers for the school year 1937-1938 were elected as follows: A. O. Shelby—president, Euclid Fant—vice president, Pete McKnight—secretary, and Al Bixler—treasurer. The retiring officers are Mrs. Seifert—president, Raymond Turner—secretary, and Arthur Cooke—treasurer.

Alpha Epsilon Delta

The Alpha Epsilon Delta, medical fraternity, began a series of meetings last Friday night when they began the study of Embryology. The meeting was first called to order and the usual business disposed of. The meeting was then turned over to Dr. Lyons, who gave the first of a series of lectures on the subject of Embryology. These lectures will be continued every Friday night, under Dr. Lyons. No definite action has been taken as yet, but it is thought that some of the students outside of the fraternity will be invited to hear these lectures. Alpha Epsilon Delta fraternity is planning to have several young internes from Charlotte to come and lecture on what the pre-med students can expect in medical school.

Thursday, April 29

SONG OF THE CITY—

Friday, April 30

TOO MANY WIVES—

A marital mixup chock full of fun and entertainment

Saturday, May 1

CHINA PASSAGE—

Monday-Tuesday, May 3-4

THE OLD SOAK—

With Wallace Beery, Janet Beecher and Judith Barrett. A fine story.

Wednesday, May 5

KING OF GAMBLERS—

A picture with plenty of thrills and excitement. See this. Gambling shown at its best in a fast-moving picture.

Dr. Gwynn, Dr. Vowles, and Prof. Brown Are Official School Representatives

SEVEN PROFESSORS GO

North Carolina Education Depicted By Pageant

The North Carolina Educational Association met on Friday of last week at Durham, N.C. This association, in the words of Professor Bailey, “includes all educational bodies in this state from the kindergartens to the state institutions.” Davidson’s representatives to this assembly were Dr. Gwynn, Dr. Vowles, and Prof. C. K. Brown. The delegates were accompanied by several other Davidson professors, including Dr. Harding, Dr. Watts, Dr. Goldiere, and Professor Clement Vollmer of Duke University. Vollmer is president of the NCEA. One of the main features of the day was the modern language meet. This meeting was dedicated to the discussion of the Modern Language Association and its meeting held in December, 1936. Davidson was represented by Dr. Vowles in the French group and Dr. Watts in the German section. The annual NCEA meeting concluded with a large and spectacular pageant given depicting the history of education in North Carolina from its meager beginnings until the present date.

“D” CLUB ELECTS FORT FOR NEW PRESIDENT

Reid and Parcell Also Become Officers in Club

At the regular meeting of the “D” Club last Tuesday night the following men were elected as officers for the coming year: For president, W. L. Fort; for vice-president, Lawrence Reid; for secretary-treasurer, Z. F. Parcell. To be eligible for entering the “D” Club, each person must win a letter in some sport. Fort, the new president, won his letter in wrestling and track; Reid won his in basketball; Parcell won his in cross-country. At the meeting Tuesday, the following resolution was passed: First, that all major fraternity and intramural rules be printed after being passed by the intramural Council. Secondly, that any man not participating in that sport to any degree during his sophomore year, will be eligible for intramural and inter-fraternity competition, during his junior and senior year.

An all-white custom toe shoe—the type you can appropriately wear almost anywhere, at any time this Summer. This comfortable model is faithfully reproduced stitch-for-stitch from a custom-made original by the house of Crosby Square. See our complete selection of these fine shoes for sports and warm-weather occasions.

Crosby Square

As advertised in Esquire and TIME

J. B. Ivey & Co.