ELECTIONS ARE BEING HELD FOR SELECTION OF CLASS OFFICERS

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA

The Davidsonian

LIBERTAS

THEODORE VIEHMAN DEVELOPS PLANS FOR CENTENNIAL PAGEANT

VOL. XXIV DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., APRIL 14, 1937 NO. 24

BARROW IS CHOSEN SENIOR CLASS HEAD IN THIRD BALLOTING

Hector McGeachy Is Elected Vice-President Over Monroe Wicker

EIGHT ARE NOMINATED

Crooks Wins Secretary-Treasurer on First Ballot

The class of 1938 elected Wade Barrow to fill its highest office during the senior year. Barrow edged out Charlie Brown for the office of president of the rising senior class on the third ballot taken Tuesday morning. Hector McGeachy was elected vice president of the class, defeating Monroe Wicker on the same ballot. On the first ballot Billy Crooks was elected secretary and treasurer of the class.

The Junior Class received the slate of nominees from its nominating committee last Friday and made several nominations from the floor. Nominated by the committee were: for president: Charlie Brown, Lawrence Reid, Wade Barrow, Elmore Holt; for vice-president—Monroe Wicker, Torrey McLean, Watson Street, and Hector McGeachy; for secretary-treasurer—Billy Crooks and J. C. Harrison. The class nominated from the floor A. C. Cline, Bruce Parcell, Bill Broadway, and Howard King for president and Sam Ryburn and Owen Cooke for vice president and Henry Harkey and Brent Green for secretary-treasurer.

The nominating committee was composed of Watson Street, Hector McGeachy, Moir Hall, Elmore Holt, and Bill Nicholson with Jim Dorsett serving as non-voting chairman of the committee.

Barrow hails from Denver, Colo., is a varsity track and basketball man and very active in dramatics on the campus. His fraternity is Kappa Sigma. McGeachy is from Fayetteville and active in publications on the campus serving as a managing editor of The Davidsonian this year. He is also a member of Kappa Sigma. Crooks of Meridian, Miss., repeats this year for he held the office of—

PROFESSORS ATTEND CHEMISTRY CONCLAVE

American Chemical Society Is Meeting in Chapel Hill This Week

Dr. H. B. Arbuckle, Professor O. J. Thies, and Professor Avery Patton of the Davidson Chemistry Department are attending the 93rd convention of the American Chemical Society which is now in session at the University of North Carolina, in Chapel Hill. This meeting, which is the spring session of the two annual conventions, lasts for five days, from Monday, April 12, until Friday, April 16.

The American Chemical Society, of which four instructors in the Davidson Chemistry Division are members, is a national society composed of leading chemists of the entire U. S. It is unique in that it is probably the largest chemical organization in the world. The society has a total enrollment of more than 10,000 members and approximately one thousand or more were expected at the present meeting.

It is an interesting fact that the society is very extensive in the divisions of chemistry which it covers. At present there are 29 different sections, each of which deals with a separate division of chemistry and each of which is under the leadership of a prominent chemist in that particular section of chemistry. These twenty divisions embrace practically every type of chemistry known, many which would seem not to be of a chemical nature. There is a division of photography, one of dyes, one of inorganic and organic chemistry, and some twenty—

(Continued on Page 6)

Wade Barrow of Denver, Colo., was elected to lead the senior class for the coming year. Barrow won over Brown on the third ballot, and will succeed Wade Boggs, who has served in that position for the last year.

CHEMISTRY SOCIETY WILL SOON INITIATE TEN NEW MEMBERS

Gamma Sigma Epsilon Extends Bids to Eight Juniors And Two Sophomores

Bids have been extended, and new members are soon to be inducted into Gamma Sigma Epsilon, national honorary chemistry fraternity whose mother chapter is the Alpha Alpha of Davidson. The new members were decided upon at a meeting on Monday, March 29, and bids were sent out on Friday, April 2. Recipients of those bids are as follows: John B. Graham, Holmes R. Hansel, Haywood N. Hill, Albert L. Ingram, Jr., John O. Lafferty, James F. Reinhardt, Richard B. Vowles, and H. Howard McFadyen, juniors; C. W. Coghill, Jr., and Locke White, Jr., sophomores.

At this meeting, also, Marion Bryant gave a report on an address by Dr. E. R. Weidlein, president of the American Chemical Society, “Science in Action,” delivered at Duke University on February 24.

Gamma Sigma Epsilon, founded in 1919, recognizes outstanding students in college chemistry, selections being based mainly upon class proficiency. At present there are 11 chapters in various colleges of America. Prof. O. J. Thies of the Davidson faculty was a charter member at its founding here. Officers of the Alpha Alpha chapter are: Harris W. Bradley, grand al—

POWELL AND SPENCER TIE FOURTH BALLOT FOR CLASS PRESIDENT

Tom Finlay Defeats Julian Lokey For Secretary and Treasurer

ARE RISING SOPHOMORES

Mashburn Elected Vice-President on Third Ballot

In the latest reports of freshman elections as The Davidsonian went to press, Buck Powell and Sam Spencer were tied with 82 votes per man for presidency of the rising sophomore class. Charlie Mashburn was elected to the position of vice-president on the third ballot. He defeated David Sprunt by 26 votes. Tom Finlay won over Julian Lokey on the fourth ballot, for the secretary-treasurership of the class. Finlay won by a margin of 14 votes.

Nominees for sophomore class president were Charlie Akers, Harper Beall, Jack Abernathy, Bill Bolin, Tony Casali, Bud Gilmore, Gales McClintock, Buck Powell, George Richmond, Sam Spencer, Rea Tenney, and Jim Thomas. Vice-president-elect Mashburn is a member of Phi Delta Theta, social fraternity, and the freshman baseball team. Finlay is a member of Phi Gamma Delta and a reporter on The Davidsonian staff.

In the voting for vice-president, Harrison, Yates, Harnsberger, Gammon, J., and Coates were eliminated on the first ballot. Fitzgerald retired on the second and Mashburn won the third. For secretary-treasurer, Loch Hunter, Luther, Pridgen and Hollis abandoned the field in the first voting, and were followed in the second count by Gray Hunter, Allison and Perrin.

LIFE OF COLLEGE TO BE GIVEN OVER RADIO

Sketches to Be Given in April And May; Sponsored By Sigma Upsilon

Preparations are now nearly complete for presentation of a series of radio dramatic sketches which will depict the life of the college at various stages in its hundred years of growth. Most of the sketches have already been written and revised into presentation form. Although the sketches have been under the sponsorship of the Sigma Upsilon Literary Society, and individual students have contributed most of the sketches, members of the faculty and even townspeople have taken an active share. The broadcasts will be given at the end of April and during the whole of May. The exact time has not been definitely decided upon yet, although there has been a great deal of discussion concerning the best time available. These sketches will be given in—

(Continued on Page 6)

Students Are to Select Courses and Rooms Soon

Registration of courses for 1937-1938 will begin in Mr. Hengeveld’s office on next Monday, April 19. At the same time registration for room assignments and payment of registration fees for next year will take place in Mr. Jackson’s office. Registration for courses will require a statement from the treasurer’s office that the registration fee has been paid before a student can register for a course. As in past years, the R. O. T. C. deposits will be accepted as registration fees, if the student will come by the treasurer’s office and indicate on his room reservation card that he wishes it to be so applied.

The catalogue designates May 10 as the time for paying the registration fee for next year and making room reservation. In view of the fact that the time for this work has been advanced almost a month, the treasurer will, where absolutely necessary, allow the student to make his room selection and sign a statement pledging payment of the fee at a later date.

Room reservation cards will be placed in the dormitories and office work will be handled in the book-store. Students who live at home and, therefore, do not want to reserve dormitory rooms are required to fill out reservation cards in the treasurer’s office, and to pay the registration fee in order to hold their places in college.

Preparations are now nearly com—

NEW ALUMNI JOURNAL WILL APPEAR SOON

Issue to Contain Pictures of Campus Life and States Represented Here.

ARTICLE BY DR. LINGLE

Eight Thousand Copies of Issue to Be Printed

Conrad Frederick Smith, alumni secretary, announced Monday that a bigger and better Alumni Journal will appear some time during the latter part of this week. The new issue will carry many items of interest to students and alumni. One of the leading articles will be “Davidson Men in Manufacturing,” which tells of the alumni prominent in the manufacturing world. Another deals with the famous Hall family, descendants of James D. Hall, one of the founders of Davidson, and a third is an item written by Walter L. Lingle, president of the college, on Davidson's needs. Besides the written matter there will be two center spreads, one with the snapshots of campus life and the other a map showing the 28 states and 5 foreign countries represented by students at Davidson. The front cover of the Journal will be a picture of Frank L. Jackson, treasurer, and Dr. Lingle talking over plans for the new building program. Eight thousand copies will be printed and sent to all alumni and all ministers of the Presbyterian Church.

Freshman Class Will Pick Annual Sponsor

A novel custom was established by the present freshman class last Friday at a meeting when it was decided to conduct a contest among pictures belonging to members of the class to choose a sponsor for the class in this year’s Quips and Cranks. Each member will—be allowed to submit one or more pictures to Jim Morton, freshman adviser, and the following freshmen will act as judges in the contest: Jack Abernathy, George Coates, George Ficklen, Tom Guion, Lauch Hunter, Julian Lokey, Paul Marion, Charlie Pegram, Bob Scarborough, and Jim Thomas.

FOUNDERS DAY TO BE CELEBRATED APRIL 22
Dr. Lingle Asks Churches and Alumni to Aid in Centennial Program

Students of Davidson College and alumni throughout the nation will celebrate Founder's Day on Thursday, April 22, of this year. This being the centennial year, the 1937 Founder's Day will rank as one of the most, if not the most, important celebrations of its kind the college has ever had. In accordance with this program, Walter L. Lingle, president of Davidson, is sending out to all Presbyterian ministers of North Carolina and Florida a letter informing them of the two-fold objective of the Centennial Program. Dr. Lingle explains in this letter that there will be a Centennial Celebration for celebrating the founding of the college, and also a Centennial Movement “for the purpose of raising funds to equip Davidson more effectively for its second century task.” He also appeals to these ministers to tell their congregations of “Davidson College, its history, its work, its ideals, and its service to the church.”

Conrad Frederick Smith, alumni secretary, announced that in connection with the Founder's Day celebration alumni meetings will be held throughout the whole eastern part of the nation. The meeting of the chapter in Gastonia, April 16, (Continued on Page 6)

SCABBARD AND BLADE PLEDGE FIFTEEN MEN IN FORMAL EXERCISES
Honorary Memberships Are Conferred Upon Five Prominent Men

IMPRESSIVE INITIATION
Banquet on Monday Honors New Members

Fifteen junior officers of the cadet corps were pledged by Scabbard and Blade at a formal parade and Tap Day ceremony last Wednesday afternoon. The exercises were held on Richardson Field. The Davidson chapter is B Company, 5th Regiment. As everyone knows, Scabbard and Blade is a national society, and recognizes Character, Leadership, and Military Proficiency. Interest in military affairs plays an important part in the society, which has grown to have quite a large national membership. Five prominent men recently have had honorary memberships conferred on them by the Davidson chapter. They are as follows: Maj. J. L. Ballard, Captain Thomas R. Aaron, of Oak Ridge Military Institute, Professor F. K. Fleagle, Mr. F. W. Hengeveld, and Dr. Scott C. Lyon. These men were initiated at 7 P.M., last Monday.

The new active initiates, who were put through an informal initiation Thursday night and a formal at sunrise Friday, are as follows: J. Y. Wilson, Lake City, Fla.; E. F. Clark, Clarkton; M. L. Lafferty, Concord; W. B. Kiesewetter, Chestnut Hill, Pa.; J. K. Dorsett, Salisbury; A. C. Cline, Concord; J. E. Holt, Greensboro; W. S. Pharr, Davidson; N. H. McGeachy, Fayetteville; G. W. Palmer, Jr., Memphis; S. A. Cothran, Charlotte; F. L. Fort, Barium Springs; B. F. Parcell, Cleveland; W. M. Wicker, Charlotte; and M. B. Crisp, Welch, W. Va.

The formal ceremony held on the Davidson golf course was very impressive to everyone present, and an exceptionally fine group was taken into the society. The officers of B Company, 5th (Continued on Page 6)

YMCA Boys Sponsor A ‘Come Clean’ Drive
Five Boys Talk to County Schools and Eight Speak In Charlotte

The Davidson College Y. M. C. A. sponsored a “Come Clean” campaign in several high and junior high schools this past week. One group of five went to various county schools, while another went to city schools in Charlotte. Bill Laws, “Boo” Walker, John Mawhinney, Bill Brown, and Sherrard Rice went to county schools and laid the challenge to live a cleaner life before them. Rod Williams, Russel Kerr, Jim Gailey, “Bud” Ingram, Dave Woodward, and Al Bixler spoke on the cleaner life to Charlotte grammar and junior high boys. Watson Street spoke to the Central High students.

DENNIS TO SUCCEED TOM CORBIN AS HEAD OF ATHLETIC GROUP
Fred Dennis

Fred Dennis, of Concord, was elected to head the Athletic Association for the coming year in the recent elections. Dennis will succeed Tom Corbin, who served in that capacity for the past year.

RISING JUNIOR CLASS VOTES FOR OFFICERS FOR INCOMING YEAR
Abbott Is Vice-President; Pittman and Stair Survive Third Voting

The sophomore class elections are now in their final stages. Only two men are left in the race for president of the class. There were originally twelve voted on for this office. Tom Abbott was elected vice-president of the class on the third ballot. Terrell Porter was eliminated. He received 82 votes to 63. All other candidates were eliminated on previous ballots.

Raymond Pittman and Fred Stair are the survivors for the office of president of the rising junior class. Pittman received 54 votes to 36 for Stair. Bill Marquess and Jim Pratt remain in the voting for secretary-treasurer. Marquess leads with 56 votes. Pratt has 45. Mullen was eliminated on the third ballot.

Nominations for president of the class were made by a nominating committee and also from the floor. Six were made by the committee and six from the floor. Those who were voted on were: Cage Brewer, Joe Calvin, Warren Gaw, Frank Harrison, Sam Hemphill, Mark Lillard, Raymond Pittman, Sherrod Rice, Perry Sloan, Julian Squires, Fred Stair, and Jack Tillotson. Nominations for vice-president (Continued on Page 6)

Harold Sugg and Tyler Port, two of Davidson's varsity debaters, returned after the holidays from an extensive and successful northern trip, on which they won the only decision debate in which they participated. This was with Washington and Lee University at Lexington. The Davidsonians took the affirmative side of the Minimum Wage question. Before the Washington and Lee debate, the audience voted as follows: affirmative, 58; negative, 39; neutral, 19. After the conclusion, the vote of the audience was: affirmative, 67; negative, 34; and neutral, 5. This in itself is a compliment to the manner in which Sugg and Port presented their side of the question.

Sugg and Port Complete Northern Debating Tour
The rest of the debates were non-decisive. Sugg and Port then traveled north to engage Swarthmore College in Pennsylvania. At this time, they took the affirmative of the question: “Resolved: That college athletics should be openly subsidized.” Next was the debate with Lafayette in eastern Pennsylvania, in which Sugg and Port took the negative of the Minimum Wage question, as they did at the University of Richmond and the University of Virginia. There is to be a radio debate with Georgia Tech on April 15 over Station WSOC in Charlotte. Haywood Hill and Charlie Mauze will speak for the Davidson team and will take the affirmative of the Minimum Wage question.

Warden, Iverson Elected Vice Presidents; McClintock Secretary-Treasurer
BARROW IS RUNNER-UP
Dennis Has Served Two Years On Football Team

Fred Dennis, rising senior, was elected to be president of the Athletic Association over a field of candidates which included all junior letter-men, in an election held last week. Dennis won out on the third ballot, before which all other candidates were eliminated except Wade Barrow, Bailey Williams, and Dennis. Williams was eliminated on the next ballot and then Dennis won over Barrow by the narrow margin of 13 votes.

For the office of first vice president of the Association, Dave Warden won over a field of candidates which had narrowed down to John Tice, Ned Iverson, and Warden. Iverson gained the second greatest number of votes thereby gaining the position of second vice president. He defeated Tice by a margin of 10 votes.

For the office of secretary and treasurer, which is selected from the freshman class, Gales McClintock won over a large number of candidates. George Richmond and Tony Casali were his opponents on the third ballot and Casali was eliminated. However, McClintock won on the final ballot with a substantial margin over Richmond.

Dennis is a member of Kappa Alpha, social fraternity, and for the past two seasons he has been a big factor in the football lineup. Dennis played halfback in the renowned “Pony Backfield” and has earned his “D” for two seasons. He hails from Concord. Warden is a member of the Beta Theta Pi social fraternity and a member of the football and track teams. He played tackle on the varsity football team and throws the shot put for the track team. Iverson is a member of Phi Delta Theta social fraternity and a member of the football, basketball, and track teams. He played for (Continued on Page 6)

METHODISTS PRESENT FIRST COMMANDMENT
Biblical Pageant at High School Features Fifteen Davidson Students

“The First Commandment,” featuring scenes from the lives of Moses and Joseph and depicting the nativity of Christ, began a two-night stand last night at the local high school auditorium. Given under the auspices of the Davidson Methodist Church, the production’s cast includes about 60 characters, one-fourth of which are Davidson college students.

John Lattimer and the Rev. J. D. Johnson take the lead parts, playing Joseph and Moses respectively. Miss Corinne Palmer directs the Biblical pageant as an agent of the American Educational Corporation. “The First Commandment” is similar to the Passion Play and “The Ten Commandments” in form. The various scenes are acted and spoken, while choral music and narrative connect the scenes. Special lighting has been secured, as well as various properties, including costumes, spears, and arms typical of the times portrayed.

Among the Davidson students featured are: Horace Lutz as Judah; Lock Vass as Pharaoh; Tom Corbin as Reuben; Dave Colvin as Simeon; Dick Johnson and Hal Overton as wisemen; Salty Peters as Levi; Bill Birmingham as chief councillor; Cooper Adams as an Ishmaelite leader; Bill Kiesewetter as a father; Jack Branch as Zebulon; Tom Breeden as Dan; and George Norfleet as Issachar.

The second performance will begin at 8:15 tonight. Admission is 20 and 35 cents.