SIX NEW MEMBERS ADMITTED INTO PHI BETA KAPPA

ALENDA. LUX UBI ORTA

The Davidsonian

LIBERTAS

NEW CONSTITUTION ADOPTED IN STUDENT BALLOTING TUESDAY

VOL. XXIV DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., MARCH 3, 1937 NO. 19

STUDENT VOTE APPROVES CONSTITUTION

SIX ARE TAKEN INTO PHI BETA KAPPA SOCIETY

Lafferty, Boggs, Woodward, Turner, Stewart, and Bradley Bid

HARDING GIVES NAMES

Raises Total From Senior Class to Fifteen

Dr. C. R. Harding, professor-emeritus of Greek and president of the Davidson College chapter of Phi Beta Kappa, announced the invitations to membership in that honorary fraternity which were extended to six members of the senior class in chapel on last Friday morning, Feb. 26. After a meeting of the chapter on last Thursday night, bids were issued to Robert Lafferty, Charlotte; Wade Boggs, Shreveport, La.; Harman Woodward, Bluefield, W. Va.; Daymond Turner, Gainesville, Fla.; Robert Stewart, Montgomery, Ala.; and Harris Bradley, New Lexington, Ohio.

Outstanding Leaders

All of the men selected are outstanding campus and scholastic leaders. Each has an academic average of over 92.5 percent for their entire time here. Wade Boggs is a Y. M. C. A. Cabinet Member, the president of the senior class, a member of O. D. K., and a member of the student council. Harman Woodward is a member of Pi Kappa Phi fraternity, an officer of the R. O. T. C., a member of Scabbard and Blade, an assistant in English, and a member of the Red and Black Masquers. Robert Lafferty is a member of Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity, won the Howard Chemistry Scholarship here last fall, is an assistant in chemistry, and a member of the honorary chemistry fraternity, Gamma Sigma Epsilon. Robert Stewart is a member of Phi Gamma Delta fraternity, a member of the debating team, and of the honorary literary society, Sigma Upsilon. Daymond Turner is a member of Sigma Phi Epsilon fraternity, an R. O. T. C. officer, and a member of the honorary Spanish fraternity, Sigma Delta Pi, and of the Pan-Hellenic Council. Harris Bradley is a member of Gamma Sigma Epsilon, an assistant in chemistry, and a member of the Band.

CORBIN AND WILSON TO TRY FOR WEST POINT

Corbin Is Principal Appointee; Wilson Will Take Competitive Exam

Two Davidson men have this week gone to take the entrance examinations for the United States Military Academy at West Point, Tom Corbin, a senior, and Jim Wilson, a junior. Corbin has gone to Washington, D. C., to stand the required examinations and Wilson has gone to Atlanta, Ga. Both men are prominent on the Davidson campus and are making enviable records. Corbin, who is to graduate this year in June, was last year the second vice-president of the student body. At present he is president of the Athletic Association, a member of Omicron Delta Kappa, national leadership fraternity, a wearer of the “D” and is president of the Pi Kappa Phi social fraternity. Wilson is a first sergeant in the Davidson College R. O. T. C. unit, a member of Sigma Pi Sigma, physics fraternity, a member of the Red and Black Masquers, Dramatics organization, and is warden of the Pi Kappa Phi social fraternity.

(Continued on Page 6)

Above are the Siberian Singers who are brought back to Davidson on this year’s concert series by special demand of those who heard them last year. They will sing in Chambers Auditorium on Tuesday, March 9, at 7:45 P. M. They open their program with Russian church music and then merge into more modern numbers. The director, Nicholas Vasilieff, is seated.

Siberian Singers Appear In Concert Here Tuesday

Noted Male Singers to Be Presented at 7:45 o’Clock

VASILIEFF IS DIRECTOR

Return Engagement Secured After Enthusiastic Reception in 1936

The Siberian Singers, under the direction of Nicholas Vasilieff, will be presented by the Davidson College music department at 7:45 P. M., on Tuesday, March 9, in Chambers Auditorium. The group is composed entirely of male voices, numbering fourteen all told. Students who heard the presentation last year noticed particularly the remarkable range of the men’s voices. The Siberian Singers are a well-known company; besides having sung frequently on the air, they have appeared at over two hundred schools throughout the south. During the first part of the program the singers wear robes like those used in Moscow cathedrals in the seventeenth century, while during the latter part of the performance the members of the company dress in Russian costumes. The first five numbers will be of a sacred nature, and will include Divine Praise, by Bortniansky, the signature of the Siberian Singers, which will be sung by special request. The signature will be followed by Hallelujah, an Old Church Chant; Credo, by Gretchaninoff; The Last Supper, by A. Lvoff; and Lord Have Mercy, by Lvoffsky. The second part will consist of five folk songs, Pirate Song, a Volga Legend of the seventeenth century; Jolly Inn-Keeper, a folk song; Prisoner's Song, and Soldier’s Song, traditional melodies; and Laughing Polka, a folk song. A group of three traditional gypsy numbers will comprise the fourth part. A Medley of Gypsy Songs (Continued on Page 6)

DINNER PARTY GIVEN BY COLLEGE ALUMNUS

On last Saturday night Mr. and Mrs. Caldwell McDonald of Charlotte, entertained members of the Davidson Athletic Council and their wives at a delightful dinner party. This included the Davidson coaches. Others present were: Dr. and Mrs. Walter L. Lingle and Mr. and Mrs. Jake Wade. Mr. McDonald, who was graduated from Davidson in the class of 1915, is a member of the Council. Those present at the party report an enjoyable evening at the handsome home of their hosts on Providence Road.

Branton Is Found Guilty On Charge of A. W. O. L.

Cadet Lieutenant J. O. “Buddy” Branton was found guilty of the charge of being A. W. O. L., absent without leave, from his class at a military Court Martial held February 24 in the Banquet Hall of Chambers Building. Lieutenant Branton was found not guilty on the three remaining charges brought against him, after a long and bitter battle waged by the prosecution and defense, when a court consisting of all the senior officers of the battalion returned its verdict.

Branch Presides

Cadet Lieut.-Col. Jack Branch, who was president of the court, passed sentence. The sentence specified that Lieut. Branton was to forfeit two-thirds of each month’s pay for six months and suffer a reduction of fifty files in the promotion list. The prosecution was in the hands of Cadet Capt. Tyler Port. The defense was conducted by Cadet Capt. Ralph McClelland. Capts. Roy Bigham and Ken Scott were associated with the prosecution while Major Wilbur Edwards and Capt. Ed Finley aided the defense with its case. The prosecution first called the following witnesses to the stand: Lieut.-Col. John T. Rhett, the instructor from whose class the accused absented himself; Lieut. A. S. “Sandy” Moffett; Capt. H. H. Overton, and Lieut. Arthur Cook. Witnesses for the defense were: Dr. McConnell, who gave his testimony as an expert when questioned concerning the physical condition of Lieut. Branton at the time in question; Lieut. Russell Patterson; Lieut. James Westall; and Lieut. James Morton. The pertinent replies of Dr. McConnell while under cross-examination caused the court to unbend at times at the expense of the defendant. Lieut. John Winn acted as Law Member of the Court; reporter for the court was Lieut. Dave Sellars; Capt. Joe Hunter was guard; Lieut. Jim Johnston served as orderly, and Lieut. Harman Woodward acted as recorder of the court.

MELODIES BY MELLEN WILL FEATURE JUNIOR SPEAKING DANCE SET

Pittsburgher’s Style Similar to Hal Kemp’s and Shep Fields’

MASKED BALL FRIDAY

Hotel Charlotte Will Be Scene of Dances

“Melodies by Mellen”—by Earl Mellen and his 12-piece orchestra—will be the music featured at the junior speaking dances, March 19-20, according to a recent announcement by President J. K. Dorsett, of the junior class. Mellen, who hails from Pittsburgh, features a style slightly reminiscent of Hal Kemp and Shep Fields, with flutes, muted brass, and temple blocks. Fortified with three novel orchestrations, seven arrangers, vocalists, and very unusual clarinets, he has recently invaded the south and won recognition for his outstanding musical ability. Another novel feature of this set of dances will be the fact that the Friday night formal dance will be a masked ball, the unmasking taking place at intermission. Three dances will compose the set, the Friday night masked ball, a Saturday afternoon tea dance, and an informal dance Saturday night. The dances will be in the Hotel Charlotte ballroom. Mellen’s band followed Austin Wylie into the “Willows,” Pittsburgh’s finest night club, where Kay Kyser and Hal Kemp won their first fame. He featured in the band that Kay Kyser played prior to.To Emerson Gill: Davidson College has recently played in the “Chatterbox” room at Hotel William Penn, where Mellen Carnegie of Pittsburgh enjoyed his rhythm. The dances will not be held at Duquesne, Tech, and the University of Pittsburgh as in the past.

YMCA Game Tables Equipment Improved

The YMCA has recently repaired the recreation room. The pool table has a new top cover, twelve new chalks, and a good rack with good cues. The ping pong table has been rebuilt and repainted. New paddles and balls have been received and are available for students. Mr. McClure has asked that students take care of the new equipment.

GAGE-DAVIDSON MARRIAGE SET FOR MARCH 20

Head Librarian to Assume Marital Vows With South Carolinian

BOTH FROM CHESTER

Davidson Made Good College Record Here

The engagement of Alice Gage to Mr. Chalmers G. Davidson, head librarian of Davidson College, was announced by Mr. and Mrs. Robert Gage of Chester, S.C., last Saturday. The marriage will take place on March 20. According to The Charlotte Observer for Sunday, February 28, “Miss Gage, only daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Gage, attended Chatham Hall, Virginia, Converse College, and King-Smith Studio-School of Washington, D.C. She made her debut at the 1935 Assembly Ball and belongs to the E.S.A. social club. She has traveled extensively both in this country and abroad.”

Davidson Alumnus

Mr. Davidson is a native of Chester, S.C., and an alumnus of Davidson College, class of 1928. He returned here at the close of the 1935-36 session to take over the duties of Miss Cornelia Shaw, who retired as head librarian after fulfilling those duties for more than thirty years. Mr. Davidson has a B.S. degree from Davidson College, a degree from Harvard University, and the University of Chicago. He is now an associate professor of bibliographical history. The 1928 Quips and Cranks, Davidson’s college annual, concluded the write-up of Mr. Davidson's career with these words: “He is a true (Continued on Page 6).”

Dramatic Fraternity Planning Production

The Red and Black Masquers will present a full-length stage production in Chambers Auditorium shortly after the spring holidays. Several outstanding plays have been recommended, but no definite selection has been made yet. Three outstanding productions being considered are: “The Skull,” a mystery-comedy obtained in manuscript form for stage production; “Ten Minute Alibi,” and “Winterset,” a new production that has been presented by only one college to date.

“MAC” LEAVES

A.B. McClure, who has faithfully served the YMCA for three years, will leave Davidson on June 13 to become pastor of the Lincolnton, N.C., Presbyterian Church.

McCLURE WILL LEAVE YMCA

“Mac” Accepts the Call to Become Pastor at Lincolnton in June

SUCCESSOR NOT CHOSEN

McClure Has Been “Y” Secretary For Three Years

Rev. A.B. McClure, YMCA secretary at Davidson, has recently been called to serve as pastor of the Presbyterian Church at Lincolnton, N.C. “Mac,” as he is familiarly and fondly called by Davidson boys, came here three years ago straight from Union Seminary to take up his duties as “Y” secretary. He will stay here until June 13, closing out the school year. He is then to go to Lincolnton to take up his work as pastor. Dr. Wilson, who is now pastor at Lincolnton, is retiring and has purchased a home in Davidson to live in after retiring. “Mac’s” successor has not been chosen yet (Continued on Page 6).

Viehman and Erwin Make Plans For Pageant

Plans are now being made by Theodore Viehman and Professor E.J. Erwin for an elaborate pageant to be presented at the Centennial Celebration on Monday night, June 7. Theodore Viehman of New York City, who spoke to the student body earlier this school year, is writing the pageant. He is using material from Miss Cornelia Shaw's book on the History of Davidson and any other additional material he may obtain. Mr. Viehman had charge of a similar pageant staged at the University of Alabama several years ago. It was because of that piece of work that Davidson learned of his unusual talent. That is only one of many which he has supervised.

500 Needed

About five hundred persons are expected to take part in the pageant. These will consist of students, faculty members, and friends of the college. The site of the occasion will be outdoors, probably on Richardson Field. There, a large stage will be erected for the elaborate program. There will be elaborate sound and lighting effects along with beautiful costumes. The college expects to expend a great deal of money to make it a memorable pageant. The music will be furnished largely by Davidson’s versatile music department. It is believed the last scene will present Davidson College as it appears today. Every phase of college life will be presented. Of course, these plans are still in the making and nothing very definite has been decided. This feature of the Davidson College Centennial program will probably attract hundreds of alumni to the campus. Where they will be kept is as yet an unsolved question.

A University of Maryland student conducts a novel service that is a distinct snap. During lectures, he keeps listeners from dozing off by cracking his fingers and snapping them.

Revised Laws Are Taken By Sections As Edwards Reads Them to Meeting

No Objections Are Offered When Floor Is Opened For Comment

VOTE TAKEN TUESDAY

Lack of Response Is Surprise To Leaders

The revised Constitution of the Student Body passed in its entirety by an overwhelming majority when submitted to a vote of the students Tuesday morning. Three hundred and twenty-three ballots were for complete adoption of the revised edition while only seven were against adopting the new constitution. Twenty-six students were in favor of a majority of the constitution but were opposed to certain sections. The only section receiving as many as ten negative votes was the one regarding drinking at Davidson.

The floor was opened for discussion of the proposed revised and rearranged student body constitution Monday morning after the chapel services. Wilbur Edwards, president of the student body, called for discussion on each separate article and section thereof in succession, but not one voice was raised either for or against a single section. During the whole proceeding Monday morning, the students showed a surprising lack of visible interest in the whole affair. When recently an amendment was proposed and a meeting held for discussion, the students were quick to voice opinions both for and against, and the utter silence Monday morning was unlooked for by the majority.

Errors Corrected

The errors which had occurred in the mimeographing of the copies of the constitution given to students were corrected by President Edwards as they were reached in the discussion. The principal change made in the old constitution, which had been in operation for over a quarter of a century, is the rearrangement of the various sections and articles in a more orderly fashion, giving a clearer understanding of the organization of the student body. Also, definite provision has been made for the method of taking and tabulating votes of the student body. Provision has been made for the election of a freshman adviser in the spring of the year in the new constitution.

REV. GREEN DELIVERS SERMON AT VESPERS

Columbia Seminary Professor Preaches on Verse From Timothy

The Rev. W.B. Green, professor of Theology at Columbia Theological Seminary, Decatur, GA, was the preacher at vesper services here Sunday evening, February 28. Dr. Green chose for his text a verse from Paul's epistle to Timothy: “These things I write unto thee, that thou mayest know how men ought to behave in the house of God, which is the church of the living God.” Using this text, Dr. Green proceeded to outline the values of the church to the modern world. Dr. Green then gave some specific values of the church and community. The first was its economic value. He said that it teaches better and truer workmanship and makes the community a better place to live in. Second, its civic values, for the church engenders a respect for law and order. He said that a good motto for the church would be: “A fort to keep the devil out.” Third, its social value because the (Continued on Page 6).