WEDNESDAY, MARCH 10, 1937 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Three

DR. G.B. WATTS NAMED LEADER AND DIRECTOR OF EUROPEAN TOUR 4

Interesting Tour Arranged Through Picturesque Points Europe

FINISH STAY IN ENGLAND

High Light Will Be Paris Exposition

Dr. G. B. Watts, of the French Department, has recently been named as organizer and tour manager of Tour 4,
“The Beaten Path,” by the Commonwealth Tours of Boston, with much of the trip being in conjunction with the Converse
group under the direction of Mrs. A. Vermont of Spartanburg, S. C. Sailing early in June on an Italian liner,
the ship will stop at the Azores, Portugal, Gibraltar, and Africa on its way to Italy. The land section of
the tour will commence at Naples, and after visiting Italy's main cities, the Simplon Tunnel route will be taken to
Switzerland. After a visit of several days in this delightful land, the Rhine Valley route will be taken, which will
include visits to Cologne and Heidelberg. Holland and Belgium will be visited before going to Paris to spend a few
days. One of the highlights of the trip will be the Paris International Exposition. The party will then go to
England for two weeks, seeing the main points of interest, before sailing for New York on the German liner Deutschland.
Among members of Tour 4 will be the family of John McMullen, Davidson, 1936.

DAVIDSON DEBATERS MEET FLORIDA TEAM

Debate Question of Conscription of Wealth as Well as Men in War

On Monday night, a debating team composed of Tony Harlow and Bob Hewitt, sophomores from the University of Florida, debated
against John Reisner and Sherrod Rice, sophomores on the Davidson debating team, on the question: Resolved: That Wealth As Well
As Man-Power Should Be Conscripted In Time of War. There was no decision to the debate, but the interesting speakers
were heard by a very receptive audience. The Davidson team upheld the affirmative side of the question, while the Florida
team attacked from the negative.

First Speaker

The first speaker for the affirmative was Rice. He began with his definition of the wealth that is to be
conscripted in the affirmative plan. It would be a capital levy on accumulated surplus wealth; it would be a tax
to the government that would be paid in cash. During the World War there was excessive profit; 20,000 millionaires were
made as a result of this profit. The cardinal points of Rice’s speech were that this conscription of wealth would
wipe out debt, would cancel excess profit, both government and individual, in time of war, and would be fair, just,
and democratic, taking not “bread out of the mouths of the poor,” as the negative stated, but conscripting only the
surplus of the rich. Reisner began by stating that “one of the greatest powers of capital levy is the prevention
of war;” by the employment of this plan there will be less chaotic conditions. Other points brought out by Reisner
were that were the plans adopted, a war could be paid for in cash, in answer to the negative’s question,
“Can enough income be raised?” that the wealth having been correctly evaluated, it can be collected, and that the plan
will not change the present economic system, as the collection would be made by the existing agencies of the government.

Negative Attack

The negative’s main point of attack was the definition of wealth that the affirmative took; they defined wealth as a
forced contribution, and distinctly stated that the affirmative plan was not a forced one. They gave figures to break down
the affirmative argument that there were great profits during the World War, and stated that, since the affirmative definition of
wealth included corporation surplus, they might notice that 80 per cent of all (Continued on Page 6)

Dr. Frazier Hood, Professor of Psychology at Davidson, is an enthusiastic cabinet worker, and a “whittler” of all kinds of
wood. It all began in 1920. Dr. Hood arrived at Davidson with his Virginia accent, and psychological training. He made
his residence at Dr. Foreman’s present home. Dr. Hood requested a carpenter to come around and fix up his new
abode a bit, but for some reason the carpenter delayed a considerable time. So Dr. Hood purchased a hammer, saw,
and other fundamental carpenter's implements. He then proceeded to “piddle” around the house, nailing and patching. This proved to be
so fascinating that the Psychologist quit his old hobby of golfing, and continued to study cabinet work and purchased more
expensive tools. American Black Walnut, South American Mahogany, and other costly woods were purchased to be made into tables, cabinets,
and chairs. Today, Dr. Hood owns a well-equipped workshop, with all the necessary electrical equipment, and other devices to carve
the most intricate designs. He continues to labor away in the evenings constructing some new piece of furniture. Cabinet work
and psychology are very closely connected, both require accuracy, stated Dr. Hood. Many pieces of furniture in his beautiful home
are exhibitions of hours spent laboring away on his useful hobby.

MILITARY FRAT TO OFFER BIDS

Tapping Ceremony to Be Held April 7th at Regular Parade

Spring pledge day for Scabbard and Blade will be observed here on April 7, it was announced by J. Ey
Branch, president of the local company. The pledging exercises, which will be held during the regular parade, are to be
different from any held previously by the local company of the national honorary military fraternity. Prospective members will receive their
bids by way of a tapping ceremony. In the past, the list of those selected has simply been read by
the adjutant in the course of the parade. Informal initiation of the pledges is scheduled for April 8, and the
formal initiation will take place on the twelfth. A banquet is planned to follow the formal induction. A committee to
select prospective members to be passed on by the company has been appointed. The new men will come from the
junior class and will be selected on the basis of military proficiency. Several honorary members will probably be chosen from
civil circles, as well as the military.

Queens Hears Glee Club

Last Wednesday night at 8:30 o'clock, the Davidson College Glee Club, directed by Thane McDonald, and the Davidson Little Symphony
Orchestra, conducted by James Christian Pfohl, gave a concert in the auditorium of Queens-Chicora College in Charlotte. After the concert,
the Queens-Chicora Senior class held a reception for the members of the Glee Club and Orchestra. The program began with
three numbers by the Glee Club: “O Holy Father," by Palestrina; “Bless the Lord, O My Soul,” by Ippolitoff-Ivanoff, and
“Lo! A Voice from Heaven,” by Bortniansky. Ken Scott played “Jesu, Joy of Man's Desiring,” by Bach-Hess, and “Tarantelle,” by
Denne, piano solos. The Glee Club sang “Cornfield Melodies,” by Gates and “Climb Up Ye Children,” a spiritual. The orchestra
then played “The Little Sandman” by Brahms, “Invitation to the Dance” by von Weber and “The

ORS, BROWN, VOWLES TEACH AT CAROLINA

T. W. Lingle and Dr. Gwynn to Teach Also Dr. D.J.1K, economics, and Dr. G. R. Vowles, professor of German,
will be guest professors on the faculty of the University of North Carolina this coming summer. Dr. Brown will teach
an undergraduate course in “Money” during the first semester. Dr. Vowles will be the instructor in a course of “German
Conversation and Composition,” and will also teach an advanced course for graduates in “The Poems of Schiller and Goethe.” The
University of North Carolina summer school is in session from June 10 until August 28. This consists of a first
and second term, however, both Davidson professors will teach in only one of these two terms. Other members of the
Davidson College faculty who are also instructors during the coming year are Dr. T. W. Lingle, who will teach at
the University of Virginia, and Dr. Price Gwynn, guest professor at Duke University for the summer.

Are Figures Correct?
Men are more curious than women, insist co-eds in the Zeta Tau Alpha sorority of Northwestern University. Here's how they
proved it: They painted a barrel, labelled it “DANGER,” and placed it on the campus. For one hour, hidden Zetas
kept tab, counting 106 men and 24 women who stepped off the sidewalk to peer inside. Which, protest the males,
proves nothing except that 106 men and 24 women passed the barrel during the test-hour.

The Voice of Spring by Strauss. Two numbers by the quartette, “My Little Banjo” by Dichmont and “Mrs. Winslow's Soothing
Syrup” by Harrington were next. The Glee Club sang “The Volga Boat Song,” a Russian folk song, “Come to Me
in My Dreams” by Cain, and “I Love Life” by Manna-Zuca. The program ended with the Glee Club and orchestra
giving “In a Monastery Garden” by Ketelby and “O Davidson.”

PHILANTHROPIC
Army Life in Panama Is Subject of Lecture to Literary Society
Amusing Debate

C. W. Seifert, Major in the R. O. T. C. Department of Davidson College and instructor in military science, gave
an illustrated talk on “Army Life in Panama” at the meeting of the Philanthropic Literary Society Wednesday, March 10. The
society also initiated ten new men at this meeting. The meeting, which was the regular weekly concurrence of the society,
was scheduled for Tuesday night, but on account of the concert being presented in Chambers by the Siberian Singers, was
changed to Wednesday. Major Seifert drew from his source of personal experiences to bring forth a very interesting portrayal of
the life of the army men stationed in Panama. During the lecture, he presented illustrations and used a large map
hung at the front of the hall to enable his listeners to follow his talk. Besides Major Seifert’s address, Archie
Torrey and Russell Kerr upheld opposite sides of a debate, the query of which was, “Resolved, that ice cream is
better for the complexion than sandpaper.” Torrey and Kerr chose members of the society to help them present their arguments
in this amusing affair. A large number attended the meeting, which was held in Philanthropic Hall. The next meeting of
the society will be held Tuesday, March 23.

Beta Theta Pi—Wilbur Edwards went to Staunton where he spent time at Mary Baldwin. Dick Cathey visited his home in
Gastonia, and Dave Sellars went to Burlington.

Pi Kappa Alpha—Doug Neil, Jack Durham, Dave McMillan, Ogburn Spoon, Addison Long, and Milton Crisp spent the weekend at Lake
Lure. Bob Anders went to Richmond and Washington. Glen Grier visited his home in Smithfield, and Johnny Horton was in
Milledgeville, Ga., for the weekend.

Kappa Alpha—Coot Gladden and Charlie Hines went to Converse in Spartanburg. Bob Abell went to his home in Chester, and
Bill Preyer to Greensboro. Scotty McLeod, of Brevard, visited the chapter. The chapter plans a party which will probably take
place March 23.

Alpha Tau Omega—George Mathis and Jimmy Thomas went to Durham during the weekend. Pete Marchant and Henry Mills went to
Rock Hill. Hoke Robinson, John Latimer, Springs Pharr, Mark Cauble, and Jake Jacobs went to Raleigh, supposedly for the Southern
Conference basketball tournament. Jim Currie and Buck Powell visited in Greensboro.

Kappa Sigma—Mr. and Mrs. Hengeveld and “Pete” Whittle were guests of the chapter at a feed Sunday evening. Carl Frampton
spent the weekend at his home in Hartsville. Johnny McQueen went to his home in Dillon, S. C.

Pi Kappa Phi—The Pi Kappa Phi fraternity held the state conclave in Durham at the Washington-Duke Hotel last weekend. The
meetings were attended by the national president, Al Meisel, and other notable members. The Epsilon chapter chartered a bus and
the entire chapter attended. Al Meisel and Howard Leake, the executive secretary, visited the chapter Monday. Outstanding features of the
conclave were a business session and a banquet which was held in the Crystal Ballroom. Paul Cooper visited his home
in Roanoke.

Phi Gamma Delta—Dr. and Mrs. Cummings were entertained after the chapter meeting last week. John B. Foster of Winston-Salem was
a guest of the chapter Sunday night. Hal Overton visited at Brenau, and Goof Cooke went to his home in
Greensboro.

Phi Delta Theta—Pete McKnight was elected president of the chapter last week and (Continued on Page 6)

German Groups Will Hold Joint Meeting
Delta Phi Alpha and Deutscher Verein, the German Club, will hold a joint meeting in Dr. G. R. Vowles’ home
on March 22 at 8 P. M. Three new members will put on a comic skit by Hans Sachs. Monroe
Wicker will review the strange play, “Der Hauptmann von Koepenick.” This will complete the program, after which refreshments will be
served.

English Ribs and “CORONATION COLORS”
Authentic "Coronation Colors” in 6 and 3 English ribs made on machines imported from England, are smarter, fit better, and
wear longer. Best liked sock. J. B. Ivey & Co.

An independent survey was made recently among professional men and women—lawyers, doctors, lecturers, scientists, etc. Of those who said they
smoke cigarettes, more than 87% stated they personally prefer a light smoke. Miss Jepson verifies the wisdom of this preference,
and so do other leading artists of the radio, stage, screen, and opera. Their voices are their fortunes. That’s why
so many of them smoke Luckies. You, too, can have the throat protection of Luckies—a light smoke, free of certain
harsh irritants removed by the exclusive process “It’s Toasted”. Luckies are gentle on the throat.

A Light Smoke AGAINST IRRITATION—AGAINST COUGH
Helen Jepson tells why she chooses Luckies for her voice
LOVELY PRIMA DONNA OF METROPOLITAN OPERA SAYS: “A season of opera and concert means my voice and throat must be
consistently in perfect condition. Therefore, although most of my smoking is done while I am on vacation, it is all
important to me that I be careful in choosing my cigarette. I smoke Luckies because I enjoy their taste and
because I feel it is wiser for me to choose a light smoke for my voice.”

THE FINEST TOBACCOS— “THE CREAM OF THE CROP”
“It’s Toasted”—Your Throat Protection
Copyright 1937, The American Tobacco Company
