WEDNESDAY, NOV. 3, 18 - Page Four
Bill Marquess Sports Editor
THE DAVIDSONIAN

The Dope Bucket
Sports Afield

Davidson Kits

The chest of Felix swelled with pride Saturday as his jinx-ridden Wildcats came out of the slough of defeat to completely conquer J.C., outplay Furman, and tame the Purple Hurricane down to a gentle zephyr. But he uttered his loudest growl of approval in favor of Fred Dennis, the lad from Concord, who was mainly responsible for the victory of the McEvermen. Johnson, Wallin, Arnold, and Snelling starred as Frosh beat P.J.C.

Fred Dennis Calls Brilliant Game as Davidson Unleashes Powerful Passing Attack Which Accounts For Final Score

Playing quarterback, he called a flawless game and it was he who kept up the spirit of the 'Cats when the going was rough. He was largely responsible for both 'Cat scores. The play on which Bill Davis made the first touchdown was meant to be a straight smash off tackle with Dennis carrying the ball, but when Fred got through the line he was trapped by hordes of men in Purple. Thinking fast, he lateraled to Davis, who went over the goal line unmolested.

The thousand-odd spectators saw better football play than they had seen in many a day. Fred Dennis, coolly setting himself to pass, provided the winning points. Hemphill scored the second touchdown.

In the line, Dave Warden covered himself with glory by breaking through to smear reverses and spinners time after time. Once, after he had been tossed by big Dave about three straight times, June Scott, Furman back, grabbed him by the shoulder and yelled out to his team, "Who's man is this? For Pete's sake, somebody block him!"

Have to hand it to Furman, they don't quit even when they're behind. With the clock ticking the final seconds of the fracas and the 'Cats in safe possession of both points lead, a Furman player from South Carolina picked himself off the ground after a play and said to Bill Johnston, "Pretty tough for you guys, ain't it, buddy?"

Davidson will sorely miss Frank Purdy when he graduates next spring. From his defensive position back of the line, he can diagnose those plays like nobody's business and was a fly in Furman's soup all afternoon. Like most teams, Furman used an unbalanced line, strong to the right side. To meet this, McEver "overshifted" the Hurricane, making his left side even stronger than the enemy right. This, of course, weakened the Davidson right and made it necessary for the right end to crash straight for the ball-carrier to guard against a cutback through tackle. Using these tactics, it was impossible for the end to keep from making a reception.

According to Coach Spearman, Teeny Lafferty may be out for the rest of the season with injuries. A tough break for both him and the team. After playing a brilliant game, the Davidson High Ties Big Newton Eleven

It happened again: for the fourth time in five games, Davidson High has tied its opponents on the gridiron. Counting a practice engagement with the senior intramural team which ended in a 0-0 deadlock, the team has tied five out of six games. In the last engagement, Davidson tied the Newton second team, 0-0.

The Davidson cross country varsity kept their record clear Friday night as they defeated Auburn and Mercer Universities in a tri-meet at Macon. The Davidson team outrushed the visitors all afternoon, registering six first downs to the visitors' three. A series of bad breaks threatened to give the game to Newton toward the end of the second half, but the little Wildcats stiffened on their own fourteen to throw the invaders back for a seven-yard loss in the final seconds.Angular. meet at Macon, Ga. The race, which brought to five the number of teams conquered by the Wildcat harriers, was run over a three-mile course during the halves of the Mercer homecoming game between Mercer and Oglethorpe. Boo Walker finished first in the impressive 'Cat victory with a time of 17:51, setting a new record which bested the former mark by over two minutes. All seven men on the Davidson team were clocked under the old record to place among the first thirteen of 21 entries. Furner of Auburn came in a close second, while Dave Woodward placed third in 18 minutes.

Captain Bruce Parcell took fifth place in the large field of runners, followed by Bob Kellogg sixth and Bill Telford eighth. These men completed Davidson's score of 23. Dennis and Davis received by Williams and Iverson. With the ball resting on Furman's 35 stripe, Davis reeled off a 20-yard run to the Furman 15. Davis then faded back and let loose a well-timed pass that Bailey Williams snagged from two Hurricane backs and fell across the pay line for the winning points. Williams came back from his end position to boot a placement squarely between the uprights for the extra point.

Second Touchdown
Davidson's other touchdown came in the second quarter after an exchange of punts, Davis snagging one of Scott's quick kicks on his own 35 marker and racing behind excellent blocking 53 yards to the Hurricane 12-yard stripe. Two line plays failed to gain, then Dennis raced to the five on an end play. Here Dennis, apparently bottled up on a line play, executed a well-timed lateral to Davis, who momentarily juggled the ball, then caught it and plunged over for the score. Warden's try for the extra point was blocked.

In only three games, Teeny was being nominated by nationally famous coaches and sports writers for a berth on All-American selections, and now it looks as if his brilliant career is to be cut short in his senior year. McEver has other backs who are good, plenty good, but there is only one Teeny, and it may be a long time before Davidson sees another one like him. Without him, we have a good team, but with him, we have an excellent one. Wouldn't it be great if he recovered in time to show 'em some real stepping up in Cambridge?

They can talk about Larry Kelly all they want to, but I've got to see an end play better defensive ball than Bailey Williams did before I believe it. Over and over a Hurricane play would start out toward Bailey's end with three men in front of the ball and not only would Williams take out the interference, but get the runner also. His leadership on the field is justifying his selection as captain and his name deserves a place on the All-State team.

On Saturday nights—or any other night—take her out to bowl. She'll like that! Take her where she'll feel at home.

Today and Tomorrow
Mysteries Are His Meat, But When He Tries to Solve This One... OH! GOODNESS...

On our stage: Cascade of Hits
Another Swell Stage—Show
18—PEOPLE—18

Rent A Car for Homecoming
Gulf Gas & Oil

A woman remembered how this man would feel when he got home from work—so a frosty bottle of ice-cold Coca-Cola was ready in the refrigerator. Buy the handy six-bottle carton from your dealer.

EDGERTON SHOES—$5 TO $7
J. O. JONES, INC
410 South Tryon Street
College Shop ... Third Floor