Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN. WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 1937

The Davidsonian
Founded By the Class of 1915

1936 Member 1937
Associated Collegiate Press
Distributors of Collegiate Digest

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON Ave. New York, N.Y.
CHICAGO - BOSTON - SAN FRANCISCO
LOS ANGELES - PORTLAND - SEATTLE

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879.

JIM MORTON ........................................ Editor
R. H. ROBINSON ............................ Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
Owen Coogler ................................ Managing Editor
Sam Cothran ................................ Managing Editor
Euclid Fant .................................. Managing Editor
Hector McGeachy ........................ Managing Editor
Dick Vowles .................................. Managing Editor
Yates Faison .................................. Sports Editor
Harry Kuykendall ...................... Associate Editor
Howell Overton .......................... Associate Editor
Harold Sugg .................................. Associate Editor
Daymond Turner ....................... Associate Editor
John Winn .................................... Associate Editor
Sam Ryburn .................................. Art Editor
Fitz Dade ...................................... Copy Reader

BUSINESS STAFF
Wilson Lowrance ....................... Circulation Manager
Ralph Chandler .......................... Circulation Manager
Charles Moore ............................ Collection Manager
Charles Let .................................. Advertising Manager
What you say be better than silence

ON OUR WAY ....
Most of us will profit considerably if we take to heart the three-fold philosophy of life which Mr. Barker so
ably presented in chapel Monday morning. We feel that nothing we could say here would add to the strength of
his words, but we would like especially to re-emphasize his remarks on studying. Application, the ability to concentrate, is the
real secret of scholastic achievement. Our presence here at Davidson means a considerable outlay for someone, in many cases a
considerable sacrifice; yet the only return our parents have on their investments is a report card. Grades and a diploma
are not the chief goal of undergraduate life, but the world accepts them as the criteria of its failure or
success.

After the strain of first semester examinations, a slump is pardonable, even expected. Then last week came the biggest house
parties of the year. Now both the cramming and the play are over it behooves us all to settle down
once more, to make our report cards look like dividends rather than “balance due” notices.

* * * * *

BUMMING CORNER ...
That venerated spot so dear to our hearts, the official Bumming Corner, needs a couple of improvements, sufficiently worthwhile for
considerable thought as a possible Senior Gift. If two signs were erected, one to be raised when going north and
another to be raised when headed south, it would facilitate the bummer’s chief problem—that of continually standing on two feet
and shooting lateral passes with the arms. Internally projecting the thumb outward tires the entire hand. This proposed project would
add much to the dignity of our student-parasites. And a further addition, more expensive, calls for the construction of a
waiting booth to be erected somewhat back of the present standing position. With these two worthy improvements, (although somewhat unique),
dignity and ease of bumming will reign.

* * * * *

ADVERTISING FOR WAR ...
Congratulations to College Widow, Com-Mirth, Jack-o-Lantern, C.C.N.Y. Mercury, and Purple Cow, for running World Peaceways ads. Maybe Scripts ’n’ Pranks
will have one soon.

* * * * *

SOMETHING WRONG? ...
We've heard a lot of sermons and talks in the last four years on what’s the matter with us students,
Christians. Now somebody tell us what’s the matter with the rest of the Christians who have been running this world
for the last few hundred years.

* * * * *

BARREL OF DYNAMITE ...
Didn’t know just what to make of Watson Street’s chapel talk, but it sure proved that personality is like TNT—not
to be played with. When it comes to love, beware of imitations. Cupid’s arrows are often tipped with fool’s gold!

STUDENT ...
Received the following comic valentine the other day: “You can study and ponder all day and all night, but from
your neck up you will always be light.” Lot in that, eh?

What Have We?...
“Oh, I like Davidson all right. It’s a good prep school.” This was the more or less casual estimate of
the college by a good friend of mine in the senior class, and one with a highly creditable record behind
him. My first impulse was to tell him frankly that his judgment was immature, my next was to explain why
he was wrong and last was to smile. All he needs is time, my retrospect will expand and deepen his
appreciations.

I believe I express the inarticulate feelings of many a Davidson man in the following: Our first conception of a
college is that it is a place to acquire knowledge. And this is our final criterion also. It is the
definition of knowledge which changes. What is knowledge? A lot of miscellaneous information or an integration of thoughts in a
way to give us a standard, a pattern of life. Many of the present student body will go to graduate
school (nearly 50 percent). They will come in contact with students and teachers who work a great deal harder than
we do. Work is a good thing but work is not all. It is Davidson’s sense of values that makes
it unique. I won’t say that after two years on the campus a student is a changed man; he is
a developed man, and developed according to Davidson tradition. It isn’t a mold into which all are poured. Individuals remain
individuals. It’s a way of living that puts first things first. The coarse, the crude and the vulgar are not
held up as objects for imitation. I do not say they don’t exist here, if they didn’t the manly, the
straightforward and the courteous would have no meaning. All of us have two sides, it’s the side that predominates that
counts and at Davidson, the best side carries the ball.

But there is one more point I want to call to the attention of our senior. A university and a
liberal arts college are two different breeds of cats and can not be compared. Universities and graduate schools teach HOW,
liberal arts colleges teach WHAT. The work of a liberal arts college is (or should be) integrated around one ideal—the
production of liberally educated, cultured men. If you want to learn HOW to do something, you’re in the wrong school.
Of course, it is a problem whether or not present day society can afford the liberal arts college. Does a
Democracy have room for a gentleman’s education? What good is a sense of values going to do when you have
to fight a filthy world for food? On the other hand, what good is life to a man or woman
of innate refinement without a sense of values? If Davidson doesn’t give you something to live by, a truth that’s
more important than an array of facts, it is just another college.

Campus Comments
The editorial pen, having traveled for many weeks among the hands of the moguls and potentates of the campus, now
dips in its quest for opinion, goes slumming as it were, to see what the proletariat thinks it thinks. This
gift of the plumed sword comes somewhat belated, for with only four months to go, the writer has either resolved
his conflicts, seen the light or learned to keep his mouth shut—another belated gift. Subjects for discussion have been exhausted
and well expressed by preceding students. The proverbially villainous Pan-Hellenic Council has washed its record to a pure snow white
by its achievement of the past Mid-Winters week-end. And now Mr. Armfield and his boys become birds of another feather,
outgrow the “quack, quack!” stage, and like the old story of the Ugly Duckling, fool us all by being swans.
In fact, the writer has had to sit an hour trying to reawaken his little devil—assiduously and with difficulty doped—who
persists in saying (can you imagine the absurdity of it?) that the status quo isn’t what it ought to be.
The only safe objects of righteous indignation the ex-columnist now feels are those plutocratic rascals who own electric razors and
let all their friends use them. With the result that our radio entertainments consist of station announcements, advertisements and vacuum
cleaners. Is there not a right in rem of listening to your own radio? Listeners of the World, Unite! But
surely this is not a topic worthy of The Davidsonian.

So, Mr. Editor, the home stretch finds your erstwhile observer strangely without complaint or suggestion. And if he had any,
he has another strange feeling of incompetency to set them forth. In short, he adds his note of harmony to
the general feeling of good will.

HAROLD SUGG.

P. S. I request John D. Allen, President Sigma Upsilon, to write the next Campus Comments.

CAMPUS CAMERA
BILL TERRILL NEW HAMPSHIRE FRESHMAN, EARNING AN EDUCATION IS LIKE “ROLLING OFF A LOG”! HE'S THE CHAMPION LOG ROLLER OF
NEW ENGLAND.

THE FIRST COED GRADUATE WAS CATHARINE GREWER. SHE GRADUATED FROM WESLEYAN COLLEGE, MACON, GA. IN 1840!

IF ALL THE TEXTBOOKS USED BY COLLEGE STUDENTS IN THE U.S. WERE STACKED IT WOULD REACH 15 MILES HIGH!

Copyright by Associated Collegiate Press—Madison, Wisconsin

SWEEDING CAMPUS MAY ...
Terpsichore smiled, Genial Jan waved his baton, and Davidson danced as it has never danced before. The music was superb,
the women were delovely, for as one freshman so adequately expressed it: “You boys certainly can pick ‘em.” Some thought
it would be a Dipsomaniac Ball but general opinion has it that it was the best ever from every angle.
Stupid Cupid, in his own inimitable way, was the man of the hour and the Valentine motif was brought to
a climax Saturday night by the strains of the Wedding March; bringing blushes and confusion to Sam Cothran and Betty
Scott standing directly before the microphone. Lutz let us down miserably by behaving himself and my pal Pinky Puss Mills
and Angel Puss Faison saw Jenny Ann Efird and Betty Schull written up in “Rosalind to Celia” in the Charlotte
Observer, also a good paper. We were especially delighted to see so many members of the Faculty and Administration enjoying
the festivities and they added an atmosphere of distinction and charm that otherwise would have been absent. The cops went
on a rampage and the third and fourth floors of the White Horse Inn went hog-wild between dances. This was
to have been our juiciest column but for obvious reasons half of the best material must be left out ...
it’s a weary, weary world. One of the funniest sights we saw was twelve alumni standing in a tub trying
to bend elbows at the same time. And Tyler getting Tyler’s tails mixed, Pat wearing C. Crowell’s dinner suit. Several
sisters of students made very favorable impressions, among whom were those of Ed Armfield, Carl Carlson, Lloyd Feuchtenberger, Jack Holland,
Harry McLaughlin, Joe Kellam, and Charlie Butler. Mary Darkeyes Hardin was declared official Fiji housemother.And who was in the back
seat of N.C. license 552-782 going to the Friday Formal? It's rumored that Garber is trying to sign Van Patterson
as bus manager. Bill McLean and Crooks from Jamaica doing an authentic rhumba. Ernie Dooley’s girl from Vassar and Bruce
Edgerton’s Emily Crum from Duke. Charlie Malony ignored Genial Jan on the stairs of the White Horse Inn after he
had been wanting to meet him all weekend. Sullins gave us Claire Bertsell with Jim Sample, Helen Baker with Dick
Coble, Caddy Walker with Doug Neal. Salem sent its loveliest dancer in Frances Alexander with Worth Sprunt and Mildred Troxler
with alumnus Scoop Atwater. Marjorie Pye with Jack but where were Ray Pittman and Bunky? Dave Sellars doing red-cap act
for girl off bus at College Pharmacy Friday morning. Jack Lee, Brent Greene, and Reid Harmon escaping from the iness
Jetty torch-singer with the bandaged head. Bronston Kenny wanted the house detective to sing a lullaby and Dennis Myers was
no gentleman on the elevator landing Saturday afternoon but it wasn’t their fault. Tommy Dunn drove so far he couldn't
enjoy the dinner his girl invited him to. John Milnes added finale to the weekend at Statesville Sunday night and
Charlie Sherman to Salisbury. Drummers are poison to Knorr and Tarry McLean pretty sheepish after the shepherding he got Sunday
afternoon. Ashley Hall quarantined because of measles and Pete Marchant and Jim Anderson dateless. Bull Durham had the shakes until
he discovered that telegram was a gag. The Dimm burned brightly but not enough for a late date. Addison Long
the Pika’s king of mug. Booby and Tom Breedon night owls. Everything was Jake with Camille in spite of Tripod
Lattimer’s bazooka discord. Hal Overton in love but being the shy type is planning to woo through the poetry page
of his mag. Pinky Kellogg did not raise his girl up for a blues singer. And Johnny Allen’s date had
to catch a boat out of Louisville. And why is Andy Allen’s bandaged? Yentz Johnston and Slubby. True-Blue Covington made
a clean sweep because Henry Lyon has taken up cooking, T. P. Porter's ratio of Jelly to Jan is nine
to three. Major Clark encouraging one of the more distinguished dancers to greater efforts. Roos Woodward's Beth Thomas wore her
heart on her sleeve at the Friday dansant. And Julian Squires date thrilled over new Tut Atwater and Rena Davis
from G.C. Why does Emma Wren Jones call Nesbitt Elmore Mr. Niblett? Tiger Jim is calling for copy and we
haven't half finished but you're pretty lucky at that. P.S.—Will the guy who swiped our Nozy notebook please keep it
so we'll have an alibi for forgetting so much this time. But don’t forget the Valentine Party at Queens tonight!

FLIGHT...
Little Willie, autty mug,
Built a fire ‘neath the liquor jug;
He skipped and danced in devilish glee
To see his father’s spirits flee.
—Johnsonian.

OVERHEARD...
“Is that your cigarette butt under the desk?”
“That's all right, Prof., you saw it first!”
“Are you a college man?” ...
“No, a horse stepped on my hat.”

DIFFERENCE...
A girl may sing,
A girl may dance,
A girl may play croquet.
But she can’t strike a match
On the seat of her pants,
She just ain’t built that way.

FRUSTRATION ...
Blue eyes gazed at mine—vexation;
Soft hand clasped in mine—palpitation;
Fair hair brushing mine—expectation;
Red lips close to mine—temptation;
Footsteps—damnation!
—Flambeau.

OPEN FORUM
R.O.T.C. AND WAR...
Dear Editor:
We would like to tell you why we are for the R.O.T.C. at Davidson. There is nothing that the College
needs so much—not equipment, books, buildings, courses, or professors—as an R.O.T.C. to establish us as a liberal arts school. We
are for the R.O.T.C. because it makes the boys look so nice. There's nothing like a uniform to give that
snappy look. R.O.T.C. makes the boys stand up straight and say, “Yes, Sir.” And isn’t that swell? We are for
the R.O.T.C. because it teaches boys what war is like. In the R.O.T.C. they learn to march in columns, to
do right face, and the manual of arms. They have dress parades and play around with machine guns, and thus
learn about war. We also favor the R.O.T.C. because it teaches men to hate war. In our rifle range we
learn accuracy and steadiness, and out of this experience we will develop not only a hate of war but of
everything military. It’s also a good thing for the campus socially. Periodically we could select honorary colonels from the weaker
sex. Then Scabbard and Blade has its military ball at which they wear their uniforms. This will be a good
thing because it will make the girls hate war, too; for women in their deep love of truth will see
through the superficiality of the dances, and nice clothes, and realize the horrible truth beneath it all.
DAVIDSON PEACE LEAGUE
(Courtesy of New Mexico Lobo)

WHAT HAVE YOU...
Dear Editor:
With more than mild surprise I noticed in The Davidsonian of last week that Alpha Phi Epsilon, honorary debating fraternity,
had initiated eleven new members. I am not a disappointed aspirant for I’ve had nothing to do with debate work
here, but I do wonder how membership in Alpha Phi Epsilon can be much of an honor when ‘neophytes’ enter
in such quantities. Qualifications for entrance to the three national debating fraternities usually include exceptional debating ability and long experience.
The fellows recently initiated are all fine men, friends of mine, but preparation for the fall tryouts seems to be
the extent of the practice and development of their ability. The lack of opportunity to study the principles of debate
and put them into practice results in a comparatively small number of trained debaters here. If a total of eighteen
Davidson students have received “honorary” standing worthy of little gold keys and the name of Alpha Phi Epsilon, I take
it that our chapter is not up to par.
HARDICANUTE.

Scott And Trio Give Novel Musical Stunt
Last Wednesday morning at the chapel period, the Pan-Hellenic Council presented a unique announcement for the benefit of the student
body concerning the presentation of Jan Garber for Mid-Winters. As Ken Scott, popular maestro of the organ, sat at the
console, the rhythm of Jan Garber's suave theme song, “My Dear,” floated out over the audience. Then soft voices, as
if from nowhere, fell smooth upon the ears of the already surprised listeners. An encore revealed this mysterious trio, as
it was later found out to be, composed of none other than J.D. Allen, Pete McKnight, and Bill McIlwinen, hidden
back the screen among the organ pipes. Recently it has been rumored that Jan Garber himself expressed the wish of
signing up these boys for future publicity.

TRIAL TO BE STAGED
(Continued from Page 1)
the intention of evading his duty as an officer and as a student, did feign illness. Jack Branch will serve
as president of the court.

NEW CATALOG
(Continued from Page 1)
Although being taught this year, first catalog mention of the course in musical history and appreciation is made in the
new edition. Student copies may be obtained soon after February 20th.

IN A NUTSHELL
There are times, especially just on the heels of a weekend like the late lamented one, when the writing of
this column of nonsense weighs like lead on the aching head. The main thing is to sound as though we
feel like the first rose of spring instead of the last of summer, and that’s a hard thing to do
when every movement feels like—well, you know as much about how it feels as I do. But boy, it was
great while it lasted!

As the finest leader with the finest band ever to play for a Davidson dance, we unhesitatingly name Genial Jan
and his boys, whose carefree personality won the merrymakers as much as did their very danceable music. An additional bouquet
is heaved in Garber’s direction for the plug he put in for Davidson on the Friday night broadcast. A thousand
dollars worth of the best kind of advertising handed the college—and it would have gone unsaid if it had been
left to the announcer. Thanks, Jan.

This has been a weekend of numerous personalities of note for Davidson men. The speaker at the vesper service Sunday
night kept a far larger percentage of the assembled headaches awake than most preachers could have, with his most appropriate
and understanding introduction. Then on Monday morning, Dr. Barker showed himself worthy of his introduction and of having spoken before
3.7 million college students. It was a good talk, made infinitely better by a most pleasing delivery. Thanks to Mr.
Ivey for bringing him around.

The Monday Morning Blues hangs heavy over the campus as this is written. “The music and the girls depart,” and
leave behind them peace. And if there’s anything the Davidson campus can do with less of, it’s peace. Students creep
from class to class with all the spirit and animation of rheumatic snails. What price weekend!

Tops in their line: The Pan-Hellenic’s eloquent announcement in chapel one morning last week... the brief and appropriate words spoken
by our coaches, past and present, at the dance Saturday night... Fritz’s trumpet... the not-so-distant Junior Speaking... the get-togethers in
the frat houses after the dance on Saturday morning... spring recess, if it ever comes.

Were you at one of the many banquets between the tea and night dances Saturday evening? If you were, you
will agree with me that one of the things every banquet should avoid like the plague that it is is
this lamentable custom of having speeches, and—much worse—group singing. Just as you spear a choice forkful of something or other,
some alleged speaker rises and you have to cheese it respectfully, with many a wistful look at your plate, until
he has finished. Now, you think, for the choice forkful. But no. When the bite is in mid-air, the toastmaster
(may he step in chewing gum!) waves his arms, and you either return the fork to your plate, or risk
the embarrassment which usually follows in the wake of an attempt to sing with a mouth full of something or
other. And to make it worse, you have to smile through this torment.

The student body has been invited in toto to the Valentine’s blowout at Queens, and will probably attend almost as
invited. As for Kernel, since receipt of the threatening letter published here last week, he scarce dares go to Charlotte,
let alone to the actual lair of Ima Heart-healer. The woman might be armed! If you were there last night,
hope you enjoyed it—the sleeping here was fine.
