WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 20, 1937 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Three

MATMEN DEFEAT DUKE IN OPENER

SPORTS AFIELD

WILDCATS FACE GAMECOCKS HERE TONIGHT

By Bill Marquess

Hooray for Connie Mac Berry, even if he was on the wrong side. He’s a splendid basketball player and a great fellow. Our Wildcats put up a magnificent fight and left the game with a seven-point lead, but Berry erased that almost single-handed. Hicks guarded him closely, but there was no stopping the tall center as he swished them through the bucket from all angles.

The quintet made no mistake when it elected “C.C.C.” Quick as its captain. He’s Davidson's leading scorer, handles the team well, and takes good care of his guard assignment. You'll see a battle royal when Wake Forest comes here and Quick and Waller, flashy Deacon forward, who now heads the Southern Conference scorers with 89 points.

Everybody has been waiting anxiously to see what kind of a Freshman team we have and all left the gym Saturday night highly pleased with the way it showed up against the much bigger State Frosh. And when you're giving medals, don’t forget Tony Casali. He had a sprained hand swollen to nearly twice its normal size and got up from a sick bed to play that game.

While we're jabbering about the basketball situation it might be well to mention the need for a better gym at Davidson. The present structure used for basketball games is so inadequate that the officials are forced to schedule games with such formidable foes as Duke and Carolina in towns where more room can be secured to accommodate the spectators. Consequently, the Davidson students are forced to content themselves with competition of an inferior type. This year’s contest with Duke was played in Winston-Salem and the Carolina game was taken to Charlotte simply because the Davidson gym has no place for outsiders after the students have crowded in. Such a situation not only causes the students to be deprived of the best basketball entertainment, but it also keeps basketball from being a self-supporting sport.

With only the one court on the campus, it is pretty hard on both coaches and players. There are three teams that have to practice nearly every day and the same gym is used for intramural games. All this is not meant to criticize, but is just a way of getting around to making the suggestion that some of the Centennial money about which we have heard quite a bit might well be used to put up a more adequate gym and the old one left for intramural games.

Incidentally, why don’t more of you turn out for the intramural contests? If you can’t play you can at least holler for your class or fraternity.

Duke Grapplers Defeated By Strong Wildcat Team

McFadyen Wins Over Austin By Time Advantage in Feature Match

LARGE CROWD PRESENT

Leonard Fort Is Only Wildcat To Win By Fall

Davidson’s matmen opened the intercollegiate wrestling season last Saturday in fine style, by defeating the Duke grapplers to the tune of 21 to 13. A large crowd of 600 gathered here for the matches. Captain Charlie Parker scored his fourth straight fall of the season when he pinned Donnelly of Duke in one minute and 25 seconds, in the 135-pound class.

In the feature match of the afternoon, Howard McFadyen, outweighed 77 pounds in the unlimited class, defeated Austin of Duke by a time advantage of four minutes and 44 seconds. Falls were also gained by Leonard Fort of Davidson in the 145-pound class, and Leve and Haines of Duke in the 126-pound class and the 155-pound class, respectively.

118-pound class—Blue (Dav) won on forfeit; 126-pound class—Leve (D) pinned Lowrance in two minutes, 50 seconds; 135-pound class—Captain Parker (Dav) pinned Donnelly in one minute, 25 seconds; 145-pound class—Fort (Dav) pinned Friedlander in eight minutes, 50 seconds; 155-pound class—Haines (D) pinned Sadler in three minutes; 165-pound class—Newens (D) won from Gamble on time advantage of one minute 42 seconds; 175-pound class—Vass (Dav) won from Lackey on time advantage of 32 seconds in one extra period. Unlimited class—McFadyen (183 pounds) of Davidson won from Austin (260) of Duke by time advantage of four minutes and 44 seconds.

CATS PLAY CLEMSON AND CITADEL TEAMS ON GRIDIRON

A new cloud looms over the Davidson gridiron schedule for 1938 in the form of the snarling Clemson Tiger. Clemson, which consistently produces one of the best football teams in the South, will be met in the first game of an annual encounter to be played in the Charlotte stadium after a lapse of a year. Citadel will return to the Wildcat schedule in 1938. Conflicting dates will prevent Davidson from meeting Georgia Tech and Navy in intersectional games in '37 and '38 respectively.

The Wildcat schedule for 1937 is as follows: Sept. 18—State at Greensboro; Sept. 25—Erskine at home; Oct. 2—Duke at home; Oct. 9—V. M. I. away; Oct. 16—S. C. away; Oct. 23—Centre, away; Oct. 30—Furman at home; Nov. 6—N. C. (home-coming); Nov. 13—Harvard away; Nov. 25—Wake Forest at Charlotte.

When the late Rev. Dr. Carl G. Erickson became president of Upsala College in 1920, the school had only 16 students. The present enrollment is about 400.

OH NO! Not in The Tavern. Upstairs, in the big Main Dining Room. Haven’t you heard? Well, you ought to know what’s going on; look in and see. Jimmy Livingston’s eleven-piece outfit, which plays like nobody’s business, is working at Luncheon (which is 65c) and again at Dinner time—7 to 9—except (let’s take a new paragraph for this)—Except Saturday evenings, when it’s 7 to 11. Dinner’s a dollar, and there’s no cover charge or other “extra.” Can you beat it? Get het on the phone, and set a date.

HOTEL CHARLOTTE

ALL CLASS TEAM ELECTED BY IKEY FALSON

Bankhead, Alcorn, Fowler, Woodward, and Kenney Make Class Basketball Team

SOPHS ARE CHAMPIONS

Team Wins Five, Loses One; Juniors Close Second

Mokey Faison, referee for the Intramural basketball games, announced Monday his choice for the All-Class teams. Six games were played by each team during the Intramural series. The first team is as follows: forwards: Bankhead (Sr.) and Alcorn (Soph.); center: Fowler (Soph.); guards: Woodward (Sr.) and Kenney (Jr.).

Faison’s choice for the second team is: forwards: Sample (Soph.) and Talmage (Sr.); center: Hartzog (Jr.); guards: Hemphill (Soph.) and Charlie Sears (Jr.). Those who are put on honorable mention are as follows: Anderson, Armfield, Covington, Henderson, Howard, King, Marquess, McClenock, Neal, Rader, Ragsdale, Shabell, and Wilson.

At the end of the intramural series, the standings of the class teams were as follows: Sophomores won five and lost one; Juniors won four and lost two; Seniors won three and lost three; freshmen won none and lost six. The Freshmen fought a hard game all the way through and are due much praise, even though they ended up in the cellar.

Fowler led the scoring for the series with 74 points, or over 12 points a game. Following close behind were Bankhead, of the Seniors, with 50 points; Woodward, of the Seniors, with 40 points; Kenney of the Juniors, with 40 points; Alcorn of the Sophs, with 24 points; and Sample of the Sophs, with 24 points. Bankhead averaged 8 points a game, Woodward and Kenney six, and Alcorn and Sample four.

Competition in the series during the past week has beenClose. The Seniors beat the Frosh 38-16, the Sophs beat the Juniors 25-18, and the Sophs beat the Seniors 26-20. The Sophs piled up the largest score on the Frosh team when they beat them 65-14. One of the closest games was that between the Juniors and the Sophs, the Juniors finally winning out, 22-18.

HOPE OF CONFERENCE WRESTLING MEET DIM
Contest Discontinued Because Of Lack of Interest

Hope seems dim for any chance of a revival of the Southern Conference wrestling meet, which was voted by its members to be discontinued at the last Southern Conference meeting. The main reason for the dropping of the grapplers’ tournament was lack of interest in it. The meet, heretofore held annually at Lexington, Va., had developed into a contest between two or three strong mat teams and had become, at least in practice, no longer a real conference meet. A vague rumor was afloat that the meet might be held at Davidson or Duke. Athletic officials here, however, said they knew nothing of it and had not been approached or invited to hold the tournament.

TAILOR-MADE HAIRCUTS
Norton’s Barber Shop
NORTON & CIDROAM
Proprietors

SOPHOMORE CAGE ACE
Here is J. D. Hicks, scintillating Sophomore center, who is one of the most important cogs in Coach Flake Laird’s powerful Wildcat basketball team. Saturday night in the game with State he did a great job of guarding Connie Mac Berry and outscored him until a twisted ankle forced Hicks to leave the game. Although he has been jumping against centers several inches taller than he is, he gets his share of the tip-offs and consistently retrieves balls off the backboard. He was second in scoring for the ‘Cats Saturday night, getting eight points while Ned Iverson garnered fifteen. He is improving daily in his shooting and bids fair to be one of the leading centers in this section before he graduates. (Courtesy Charlotte Observer).

Many Answer Football Call
Over Fifty Men Begin Preliminary Workouts

Preparation for Spring football practice has already begun at Davidson College. The boys are now taking regular workouts to get practice for the six weeks training. Over fifty boys of the three lower classes began regular workouts last Monday after the boys came back from the Christmas holidays. The football aggregation takes regular workouts beginning February 1. These workouts in the old gymnasium are under the supervision and check of Dave Warden, tackle on the varsity team. Those who are out for spring practice consist of all those on the varsity squad who are not going to graduate in the spring, or in other words who will report to practice this fall. In addition, there are the members of the freshman squad who will be out to take over some berths in the varsity lineup. (Continued on Page 4)

Call E. H. MORROW
RADIO REPAIRS
Phone 2242
M. H. GOODRUM & CO.
Zenith and RCA Radios.
415 South Tryon Street
FAUL & CRYMES, INC.
SPORTING GOODS
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Four Davidson Men Given All American Honor Card
First Time in School’s History So Many Men Honored By Board

The All-American Board of Football awarded four Davidson men All-American cards of merit this year. The men so honored were: Joe Hunter, Dick Johnson, Teeny Lafferty, and Bailey Williams. These four men have also been honored in other ways during the football year. Dick Johnson, captain of the Wildcat team, was also selected for the Southern All-State team. Hunter was selected as tackle on the All-State team and also on Collier's Little All-American and alternate Conference teams. Teeny Lafferty is on the Eye team, Scrappy Cat Basketeers Downed By Red Terrors.

TEN GAMES UP CONTESTS THREE
Foes Carolina, Charlotte High, and State Win in Hard Fought Battle
OPPONENTS VERY TALL
Harrison, Tenney, and Thomas Led the Attack

The Davidson freshman basketball team got off to a bad start when they dropped their first three games to strong opponents. The lack of height has been the deciding factor in all of these games. The ‘Kittens lost a hard-fought game to the University of North Carolina when the Tar Babies put on a brilliant second half attack that enabled them to draw steadily away from the much smaller Davidson team. Each member of the Carolina team measured six feet or over. Led by Harrison and Thomas, the ‘Kittens quickly jumped into the lead and held it throughout most of the first half, but could not keep up the pace in the last stanza.

In a very disappointing contest, the Frosh dropped a close decision to the Central High quintet of Charlotte, 21-18. McCachren’s fine ball-handling was the factor that won the game for the High School five. Tenney led the Davidson attack with seven points.

Lose To Wolflets
The Frosh showed great improvement over their last performance, but nevertheless lost a hard game to the N. C. State Freshmen, 34-27. Cromartie rang up 19 points for the Wolflets. Thomas played nice ball for the Davidson team as did Tenney. The ‘Kittens led 16-14 at the half, but lapsed in the third stanza and allowed the Pack to pull ahead.

After the exam schedule, the Freshmen hope to avenge their previous loss to the Carolina first-year men, and to rack up a win at the expense of the Duke yearlings.

The whole Wofford College football squad was jailed temporarily at Martinsville, Va., because one of the members tried to swipe a “no-parking” sign as a souvenir.

Davidson Leads at Half, But Loses in Closing Minutes Of Play
BERRY LEADS TERRORS
Bill Quick and Ned Iverson Star For ’Cats

Superior height enabled the Terrors of North Carolina State to defeat the Wildcat quintet 41-35 in Alumni gymnasium Saturday night. The scrappy Davidson team held an advantage until the last few minutes of play when the ability of the lanky Terrors to control the ball paved the way to victory. Johnny Armstrong rang up the first score of the game a few seconds after the opening tip-off. Led by Iverson and Captain Quick, the Wildcats matched everything the State boys could offer and rang up several baskets on long shots and countered on many “impossible” attempts. Steadily the ‘Cats forged ahead to lead by 20-13 at half time.

The Terrors opened the second half with a dazzling display of perfect co-ordination on one-hand passes to work down under the basket and score three times. Paced by Connie Mac Berry and Captain Dalrymple, the scarlet-clad warriors pulled up even with the Wildcats and then went ahead on beautiful long shots. Ned Iverson led the 'Cats with four field goals and four foul conversions. Following him were Hicks and Captain Quick with 8 and 7 points respectively. Hicks was the outstanding star; playing against Berry who towered above him a full four inches, he held the State star to one point in the first half, but was injured early in the second period. Berry led the attack for the visitors with 13 points.

Coming Soon!
The Storrs-Schaefer Stylist
H. Grady Kinsland with 400 DISTINCTIVE PATTERNS OF NEW SPRING AND SUMMER STYLES FOR MEN
Stop By 14 Georgia and Select Your Pattern NOW
REMEMBER EASTER COMES EARLY THIS YEAR
Representatives: Dick Johnson and Hoke Robinson