Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN. WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 1937

The Davidsonian
Founded By the Class of 1915
1936 Member 1937
Associated Collegiate Press
Distributors of: Collegiate Digest

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON Ave. New York, N.Y.
CHICAGO - BOSTON - SAN FRANCISCO
LOS ANGELES - PORTLAND - SEATTLE

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879.

Editor ........................................ JIM MORTON
Business Manager .................. R. H. ROBINSON

EDITORIAL STAFF
Owen Cooke ................ Managing Editor
Sam Cothran ............... Managing Editor
Euclid Fant .................. Managing Editor
Hector McGeachy ........ Managing Editor
Dick Vowles ................ Managing Editor
Yates Faison ................ Sports Editor
Harry Kuykendall ........ Associate Editor
Howell Overton .......... Associate Editor
Harold Sugg ................ Associate Editor
Daymond Turner ........ Associate Editor
John Winn ................... Associate Editor
Art Editor ..................... SAM ORR
Copy Reader ................ Fitz Davis

BUSINESS STAFF
Wilson Lowrance ........ Circulation Manager
Ralph Chandler .......... Circulation Manager
Charles Moore ............ Collection Manager
Advertising Manager .... Hal Felkel
Asst. Business Manager .. Joe Felkel

That is the best government which desires to make the people happy and knows how to make them happy.—Macaulay.

We extend our sympathy to Dr. P. H. Gwynn, Jr., in the recent death of his mother.

‘WITHOUT HONOR’... It has become almost habitual for these columns to bewail the care accorded the ancient landmarks on our
front campus. The sagging blinds which disfigured Eu Hall have been removed since an editorial on that subject, but we
question whether the battered jalousies were not better than no blinds at all. We notice that the stairways, bannisters, and
woodwork of buildings are still badly crumbled and in need of paint. A leaky roof has scattered plaster on the
Eumenean, and the Philanthropic’s famous chandelier is sadly neglected. Let it be known that these halls are worth preserving. Not
only are they relics of our glorious past, they are gems of our native, southern architecture. We have rightly a
more than sentimental reason in preserving them. Confirmation of this belief is found in a recent widely published ASSOCIATED PRESS
dispatch from New York. According to this information “Philanthropic Hall, Davidson College, and Eumenean Hall, of the same college” are
among the buildings chosen by architects of the Historic American Building Survey for inclusion in their volume on early American
architecture, which is being prepared at governmental expense. Truly, “A prophet is not without honor save in his own country.”

DOC NEWTON ... Is now head of the State Football Coaching Staff. He has developed excellent teams out of seemingly
poor material; he has acted as a necessary drive for practices, and contests; he has served Davidson College in a
laudable manner since his first introduction to the college campus. So it is with regrets that we see him ushered
into State College, although we realize the benefits to him are considerably more than could be offered by Davidson.

COACH GENE McEVER... Coach McEver now pilots the destinies of the football team for the approaching year. He has served
as an able backfield coach to Doc Newton, and much of our past successes are due in large part to
his work. In the minds of the students, he was elevated to the Head Coach’s position for Davidson, long before
the official announcement was made.

COMMENDATION ... Davidson over the air-lanes again ... Alberto Salvi and his instrumental quartet to Davidson for Concert Series ...
Congratulations to the Administration for planting the shrubbery along the road to the Freshman Football Field, and by the gate
posts.

Mrs. Wally Simpson... The Red and Black Masquers are to be commended for setting somewhat of a precedent in sponsoring
the Avon Players in “Merchant of Venice.” There was but one obstacle to mar the performance and that was not
on the part of the players, but may be attributed to a small part of the student audience whose idea
of the behavior of the college man is misinterpreted. It is difficult to realize that there are in our student
body, certain persons who feel that they must express their childish emotions in typical prep-school fashion. It may be excusable
for us to attend the local movie house and conduct ourselves as we please, for there we embarrass none but
ourselves. But at a stage production, where both the players and the visitors are to be considered, certainly we should
draw the line. Also it can be noticed at the basketball games and near the dormitories upon the appearance of
the young ladies where the same childish attitude sometimes regrettably prevails. We never realize what embarrassment we cause the recipients
of these “cat-calls” until we ourselves are placed in a similar position. We've come a long way in the improvement
of our conditions on our campus and if we can erase this undesirable obstacle it can be truly said that
we do live up to our tradition as Davidson gentlemen. (Editor's Note: This editorial was captioned “Mrs. Wally Simpson" so
that you would read it. You can lead a horse to water, and make him drink—if you fool him).

Campus Comments

When The Davidsonian reporter suddenly raps at your door and wants to know if the proverbial Campus Comments are ready
to be edited before printing, you all at once recall that you're without a subject. Then you ask several friends
for suggestions and get no definite answer other than the standard conception of what any campus commentator might be expected
to decipher from any well-balanced college community—“Whatever it is tear ‘em apart.” Don’t get the idea that at last there
has arrived one of those spineless wonders who can’t work up a good case of enthusiasm over a pet peeve
and ring down a sonorous Hail Columbia for the benefit of any who might second the motion. Subjects which range
from the boarding houses to Senior church seats usually furnish the best oil for glib-tongued sycophants who can well afford
to write without fear of contradiction, at least from students. The more gentle dissertations on campus life which fill the
bill from being nice to freshmen to the budding rumor rage may come closer to arousing the huzzas of alumni
and others but leave much to be said or unsaid where the rose blooms freshest. Excuse me, therefore, if I
indulge in a bit of heresy and cross the fence by resorting to making personal observations, for what gets everybody’s
gladhand and calls only for verbal bouquets is the well-washed and ever-sweet-smelling Davidson spirit. No student, prof., old grad, or
friend gets any further than dubbing that intangible glow as a “certain something” and admitting that it just is and
that there’s no argument about it. So the man who attempts to explain it gets little further than the fact
itself that it’s ineffable. Better still, then, might be the plan of endeavoring to trace at least one source of
the whole. During the exam periods such as the one we just passed through school is out except for toeing
the mark whenever the tests come along. To the lower three classes, therefore, the practice of attending chapel is simply
an institution which keeps on after classes leave off. It’s a Senior privilege (well founded), that they be excused from
those exercises—and undoubtedly rightfully enough. But that fact furnishes the illustration I feel called on to make, for it seems
to me that I lost contact with the school for those two weeks. It makes little difference if I did
except to realize that if it weren’t for chapel, during the regular term, with its organ selection, its hymn, its
moment of prayer, its announcements, its occasional rumble of laughter or whistles, and the chance to watch the entire student
unit back its every move in daily get-togethers the Davidson spirit might not have the cause to run as high
as it does. Few if any schools around us or anywhere follow the same procedure. For the most part they’re
too large which is not their fault, yet, though they have the power, all too often they don’t have the
spark which has made us famous. Maybe then it can be traced in some part to our chapel every day—at
least my vote goes for it there. Maybe you don’t think so but, anyway, think it over.

P. S—I request Harold Sugg, President Alpha Phi Epsilon, to write Campus Comments for the next issue of The Davidsonian.

CAMPUS CAMERA

GEORGE WASHINGTON
Received only one college degree — an LL.B. from Washington College, Md.

University of Wisconsin Co-eds use enough lipstick annually to paint four good sized barns! The average co-ed covers 9.68 sq.
feet of lips in a year...

SWEEPING THE CAMPUS

By AL CADE

We would like to add our voice to those regretting the departure of Coach Newton from Davidson. He's done a
great job while here and the best wishes of Davidson men go with him. We are very fortunate in having
the new regime under Coaches McEver and Chapman and the student body seems confident of the future.

The Kappa Delta sorority of Queens gave a delightful party Saturday night at Martha Alexander's in honor of their national
inspector, Miss Josephine King, escorted by Joe Hunter. The formal Phi Gams and the S. P. E.’s were there in
a body. Gibb Smith, Johnny Allen, and Dan Gilliam entertained extemporaneously over the microphone. The Phi Gams got stuck in
the elevator of the Wilder Building between their pig dinner and the party and Hoxie Thompson’s derby was the sartorial
success of the evening.

Triviana ... Speedy Turner's newly-decorated room given a shower by the boys on the hall. Tommy Thompson's favorite Baker is
in Mooresville. Red Wilkerson’s Western Union inserts the word “love” in telegrams without extra charge. Phil Friberg has swapped rings.
Ed in New York Xmas holidays and heard Dick Stabile. Ovid Bell is not going to have Rowena Sidbury up
for Mid-Winter. Yank Cunningham is seeing dots before his eyes. Stew Barnes still gets those calls from Greensboro every weekend
but Corbin and Covington are slipping. Ken Scott's Josephine of the boat trip sent him a wedding invitation. Elmore Holt
writing to one of the Jones girls at Salem but the post script was not his. Snozz Hill won by
a nose in the smelling experiments in Psychology lab. H. Lutz has three different stories for that bump on his
forehead. Booby Arrowsmith and George Hornbeck to Kannapolis Sunday in a famous blue Ford. Roy Bigham held out on the
K. D. party. Bill Snow, Eddie Steere, and Charlie Edwards back in school. Tricky Dave in the Tavern after the
tennis matches snacking on one of his rivals. And Carl Carlson’s napkin folding technique...nique. Judge Cathey exercising stare decisis on
the bus from Charlotte Friday night. Socrates Sugg is looking forward to Mid-Winters because Sugg rhymes with mug. Famous sayings
of famous people ... Mr. Nathan Hale Simpson: “My only regret is that I have only one wife to give
to my country.” Morrow ters, mores the ey Johnny Watkins, well-known Dorothy Dix of White’s Drug Store is working overtime
giving advice to love-lorn Freshmen. Classroom Chatter . . . Profound thought from Ken Knorr in Sociology class: “I think
death is a certainty.” Heman Clark reviewing the night before: “Time certainly does pass quickly when you're having a good
time.” Potent Point ... Love is potent but money is omnipotent. Mundane Monologue—Rembrandt’s soliloquy on Woman. Nomination for Oblivion ...
Campus florist’s agents who out-seize Caesar. One famous triumvirate cut prices one-fifth and another agency cut theirs still more, still
making a comparatively tremendous profit. Davidson students, who buy large amounts of flowers before all dances, should get special rates
or go in for co-operative buying. Mid-Winters is going to be a cosmopolitan affair. Sky Cline is having a girl
from Panama, Jim Wilson one from Cuba; John Winn, one from New York; Hal Overton, from New Orleans; and Bill
McLean one from Jamaica. And we just missed having three movie stars—Sam Ryburn invited Martha Raye, Sam Cothran asked June
Lang, and Pete McKnight got a dictated but not read reply from Olivia DeHaviland. Johnny Lattimer is having Bob Burns’
cousin from Arkansas. Dan Gilliam didn’t know the difference between Jan Garber and Greta Garbo. Don’t know exactly what he’s
expecting but hope he won't be too disappointed. Bob Johnston and Domo Patterson having their O. A. O.’s. Kenn Knorr
and Tizzie. They run through the alphabet from Worth Sprunt’s Frances Alexander to John Throupe’s Zoe Strawn. This will be
the largest and most colorful Mid-Winters Davidson has ever had. Get that old Davidson spirit behind it and make it
the best ever. And the guy who doesn't go is a sissy with a capital SIS. Mrs. S. T. Stough
entertained at tea last week at her home. Several out-of-town guests were present.

COACH NAMED SUCCESSOR (Continued from Page 1) regime here. All of the games have been played against larger schools. Newton
left Sunday to take over his position at State. Monday night he was introduced to the students at a huge
meeting, presided over by the president of the student body. Newton and Bob Warren will respond to the talks given
by several alumni and officers of State College. Newton could not be reached here since his acceptance of the position,
but he told The Charlotte Observer that he was hoping to name a line coach in the next day or
so and that he would like to get a man familiar with his system so that he could start spring
practice at once. Chet Chapman, third assistant and line coach at Davidson was offered the job, but he accepted the
position as first assistant here at Davidson. He also coaches freshman basketball.

CHANCE .... “It was just a toss-up whether I should become a barber or an author.” “Oh, I getcha. RINGSIDE
... “Waiter, here are two flies fighting in my soup.” “Well, what did you expect for fifteen cents? Jack Dempsey?”
Heads or tales.”

OPEN FORUM It’s too bad that the movie industry works its actresses so hard because according to letters from Misses
Olivia deHaviland, June Lang, and Martha Raye they just won't have time to make the Davidson Mid-Winters. They don’t know
what they’re missing! Martha Raye’s personal typed letter to our own inimitable Sam Ryburn follows:

Dear Mr. Ryburn: You're a very nice boy to think of me and you don't know how much I'd like
to be there for your party, but they keep me so “gol-derned” busy here in Hollywood that I gotta say
“no.” At any rate, I hope you all have a perfectly glorious time, and if you do happen to see
Bing Crosby’s newest picture for Paramount (“Waikiki Wedding”), just remember that while you were dancing around having a Centennial I
was being worked to death doing what you'll be seeing! And you know what you can tell in’ the house,
eh? Best wishes, (signed) MARTHA RAYE.

Modest JUNE LANG’S letter was written by hand personally and so it is best not to reveal her admirer:

My dear Mr.— I appreciate your kind invitation to your midwinter dances on February 12 and 13 more than I
can tell you, and regret that it is not possible for me to be there. I am starting another picture
soon, and am so busy in Hollywood that I rarely get away for a vacation. I appreciate your letter and
your invitation. Sincerely, JUNE LANG. Beverly Hills, Calif. Jan. 14, 1937.

Apparently Miss deHaviland sent a “dictated but not read.” “Maybe she was indisposed at the time,” says her correspondent. At
any rate, the recipient of her letter was very disappointed in the results of his most gracious epistle requesting her
presence at the Mid-Winter dances. He placed such small store by it, that when requesting the letter for publication, the
owner could not find it anywhere.

COLLEGE TREASURER (Continued from Page 1) able for the property intrusted to him in his own room. A show of
hands indicated that the student body whole-heartedly approved the plan and would co-operate fully in its execution. At a later
interview Mr. Jackson mentioned the fact that the college authorities have never stressed the economy of lights and water at
Davidson but had tried always to be generous. The recent installation of new lamps in the dormitory rooms has incurred
a heavy expense due to the increased amount of electricity consumed by them. This new lighting system and the rapid
increase in the number of radios on the campus has caused the college to meet a charge for current that
is approximately seven hundred and fifty dollars a year more than it used to be, in spite of the low
rate at which power is now available to the college. It was also revealed that a recent survey indicated that
the students averaged using from 75 to 100 gallons of water per man each day. This consumption of water has
resulted in the college paying a water bill of more than $3,000 a year for the past five years. Despite
these large increases no extra charge has been made and the school has only asked that the students turn out
lights when not in use and be not wasteful in the use of water. It is expected that a more
definite announcement will be made later upon the question of the damage deposit.

MID WINTERS FEATURE (Continued from Page 1) Jerry Bonkemeyer, Greensboro, with Carl Carlson, Kappa Sigma; Miss Sarah Stevens, Winston-Salem, with
Tom Corbin, Pi Kappa Phi; Miss Mary Dorcas Harding, Wilson, with Tyler Port, Phi Gamma Delta; Miss Margaret Wilkerson, Raleigh,
with Stewart Barnes, Phi Delta Theta; Miss Sue Davis, Oxford, with Jim Morton, Sigma Phi Epsilon.

Financial difficulties in 1892 kept the University of Wichita from becoming the Vassar of the west.

I don’t know if you remember it or not, but in The Davidsonian of January 13 this column made mention
to some extent of a strip in the Queens Blues which, we thought, dealt rather loosely with the dignity of
Davidson College, and, more specifically, of this newspaper. Well, we seem to have let ourselves in for something. With an
eye to self-betterment, writers for the Blues seem to make it a habit to read The Davidsonian, with the result
that Ima Heart-healer, who conducts the column which came up for discussion here, saw our comments and let us have
it right between the eyes for certain remarks therein contained. The following epistle came right in the midst of the
exam period, with the result that Kernel came through with some grades a hotten-tot wouldn’t have (punctuation and other mistakes
Ima’s):

SOK “My dear Mr. Fant: “In the last issue of The Davidsonian, you used some extracts from my column in
your ‘Davidson in a Nutshell.’ Your comments on this column were somewhat unbecoming to a little Presbyterian brother (!), (a
relationship which the editorial staff assumed in the above mentioned issue of your paper). “In my own ‘quaint little way’
as you so sarcastically put it, I wish to defend: “First ... The Queens Blues which is no yellow sheet
printed by a green staff. Second ... My own little column, which was not intended to be used as a
‘filler’ for your column in The Davidsonian. “If you are still awaiting ‘with outstretched (!) arms’ the said Algernon whom
you wish to add as a feminine touch to your editorial staff, I am afraid this will be quite a
blow to your fond hopes ... Algernon, Mr. Fant, is a boy’s (Wow! Sure left myself wide open for that
one!) “The error which you took such fiendish delight in pointing out was a typographical one and beyond our control.”
(Ima used the word “inferior” for “inferiority,” and now she’s trying to lay it on the printer). “Our sincere apologies
to X. Y. Z. for any unjust criticism he might have received for such a mistake. “Any problems of General
Interest which you might wish to address to this column, Mr. Fant, will be most welcome.” “IMA HEARTHEALER.”

Let it be said that the exclamation marks used above are not Ima’s. They just crept in at the most
amazing parts of this truly amazing letter. What'll she think of next!?

An untold number of announcements each year begin with the words: “This student body takes very good care of college
property; BUT ...” If we may so presume, we wish to turn the tables here and say, The administration takes
very good care of college property, BUT there has been about a foot of paint and plaster missing between the
second and third windows from the front, on your right as you go into the Auditorium, for so long that
most of us cannot remember when this part of the building was whole. While you're counting up your Centennial projects,
why not number the eradication of this blemish among them?

Stuff: Wonder how a certain coach will feel when he gets beat next year by a team he once coached?
... Hope the Pan-Hellenic has seen to it that Jan Garber has an arrangement of “O Davidson” for the ean
ealy ... By the way, if you don’t go to the Mid-Winter dances, you'll be Forgotten Man Number One (that
is, unless you happen to be on the basketball trip—to all such, our sympathies) ... From 1891 to 1936 inclusive,
the Catholic University of America has granted 8,094 degrees.
