Page Six THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, MARCH 3, 1937

Davidson Faculty Boasts Numerous Wearers of ‘D’
Some of Best Athletes School’s History Hold Positions Here

DR. LINGLE WAS STAR
Laird Is One of College’s Three-Letter Men

The Davidson College faculty and administration are not only well supplied with Phi Beta Kappa keys but are also well equipped with gold “D's.” Some of Davidson's best athletes of the past century are now members of the college faculty and administration.

Dr. W. L. Lingle was a star player on the Davidson baseball team in 1892. This team won the state championship for that season's play. Dr. C. M. Richards was also a member of this team and a star player. Dr. M. E. Sentelle played two sports. He played football and tennis in 1894. Football at this time was very different from the present-day game. It had not yet been fully organized into a national college sport.

Dr. J. M. Douglas starred on the Davidson College baseball team in 1893. This was Dr. Douglas’ senior year at Davidson. We have in the registrar’s office one of the best baseball pitchers ever to attend Davidson. Mr. F. W. Hengeveld pitched varsity baseball for three years and also played varsity basketball for three years. His senior year he was elected captain of both teams. In 1918, his senior year, Mr. Hengeveld, who was then known as “Dutch” Hengeveld, won four of his five games. The fifth game was against Lenoir. “Dutch” allowed only two hits yet he lost it 1 to 0 due to errors in the infield.

Prof. W. N. Mebane, also of the class of ‘18, starred with Mr. Hengeveld on the basketball court. Prof. Mebane played a fast game at the guard position while Mr. Hengeveld jumped center for the Wildcats.

In Mr. G. Flake Laird we have one of Davidson’s very few three-letter men. Coach Laird played three varsity years of football, three varsity years of basketball, and two years of varsity baseball. Coach Laird’s name decorated many sport pages during his four years at Davidson as a student. He won the Norris Trophy cup his senior year, the highest honor in sports at that time.

Mr. A. H. (Pete) Whittle is one of the very best trackmen ever to trample the cinders for Davidson College. Coach Whittle came to Davidson from Atlanta, Ga. as a freshman. He made the freshman team with ease and was on the varsity team his other three years. He was captain of the track team in 1930. He also won the Decathlon Trophy in 1930. Mr. Whittle broke the collegiate record in high hurdles in 1930. His new record was 15.2 seconds.

Another and more recent baseball star is Prof. J. T. Kimbrough. Prof. Kimbrough played on the Wildcat nine for the seasons of 1923 and 1924. A recent basketball star is Prof. F. W. Johnston. Prof. Johnston played three years of varsity basketball and three years of varsity tennis. He was elected captain of both tennis and basketball teams in 1930 and handed some splendid ball playing to the fans that year. He won the state singles championship in tennis in 1930.

Dr. W. P. Cumming can well be called the father of wrestling at Davidson. When Dr. Cumming came to Davidson from Japan, he was very familiar with the sport, having learned a great deal of jiu-jitsu from the Japanese. At that time Davidson had no wrestling team. Dr. Cumming’s stunts, which he performed at various stunt nights, aroused such interest that in his senior year an intercollegiate wrestling team was organized at Davidson. Dr. Cumming was the organizer, coach, promoter, and manager of this team, as well as an active member of the team. This team had several matches in Virginia and Maryland.

DRY GOODS GROCERIES RADIO SUPPLIES HARDWARE M. H. GOODRUM & CO.

PING-PONG MATCHES (Continued from Page 5)
meet the victor of the contest between Tenney and Elder. Woodward, who won in straight games over Parker, will struggle with Lindsey. Lindsey defeated Robinson to the same tune in his last match. Spenser nosed out Hill in a close match by 2-1 and will meet either Armstrong or Cloyd. The interest in these matches is steadily growing, and the matches are getting faster and better.

CORBIN AND WILSON (Continued from Page 1)
Congressman Barden has received many letters recommending Corbin for this coveted appointment and expressing their interest in seeing Corbin at West Point. Wilson’s appointment was made possible through competitive examinations taken last summer and it is evident that Wilson’s ranking was on top.

REV. GREEN DELIVERS (Continued from Page 1)
church teaches love and brotherhood and it is a school of service to the world. Fourth, the educational value. Dr. Green said that the Christian church is the mother of our public school system. He stated that 104 of 119 colleges east of the Mississippi are church colleges.

GAGE-DAVIDSON (Continued from Page 1)
gentleman, a scholar, and a good judge of women.” During his undergraduate days he was a member of Beta Theta Pi, social fraternity, Sigma Upsilon, honorary literary fraternity, and Phi Beta Kappa, national honorary scholastic fraternity.

SIBERIAN SINGERS (Continued from Page 1)
will first be sung, and will be followed by Gypsy Old Refrain and Dark Eyes.

HISTORICAL GIFT IS GIVEN TO DAVIDSON
Colonel E. L. Baxter Davidson, ’81, Presents Fifty Pamphlets to College

Colonel E. L. Baxter Davidson, ’81, of Charlotte, recently presented the Davidson College Library a collection of over fifty pamphlets pertaining to the history of Davidson College and Mecklenburg County. These pamphlets have been in Col. Davidson’s possession for some time, and form a Centennial Christmas gift to the college. The Mecklenburg material includes the prologue to the disputed Mecklenburg Declaration published by Col. Davidson, and a number of other valuable items. The Mecklenburg Declaration was supposed to have been in P. S. Ney’s mind when he wrote the college motto for Davidson, “Alexenda Lux Ubi Orta Libertas.”

A rare volume of the Encyclopedia of American Biography, handsomely bound, contains material on Col. Davidson’s family. The statement appears in this volume that “it can truthfully be said that the financial support which came to Davidson College from the Davidson family became a tradition.” Colonel Davidson himself has contributed around $25,000 to the college.

FRIEND IN NEED...
My boyfriend’s funny. He doesn’tdance. He doesn’t drink. You couldn’t get him into a rumble seat on a moonlight night, on a bet. He wears the funniest clothes—all black—no color to them at all. He’s so quiet—never says a word. He never laughs. He’s so formal, so cold, so infernally stiff. He died last week.

DAVIDSON MEN HOLD OFFICES
Numerous Students Hold Positions in Young People’s Organizations

STREET HIGH OFFICIAL
Four Presidents and Three Vice-Presidents Here

Davidson College may feel proud of her great number of officers in the young people’s organizations of the Southern Presbyterian church. Of the seventeen synods of the church, four presidents of the Young People’s Leagues of these states attend Davidson College. These are Watson Street, president of the young people of the Alabama Synod; Frank Brown, president of North Carolina Young People; Walter Dixon of South Carolina; and Bill Brown of Georgia. In addition to the four presidents, there are three vice presidents. These are: Tom Anderson, of Alabama; Monroe Wicker, of North Carolina; and Sherrard Rice of Virginia. There are several committee chairmen also who attend Davidson. Watson Street, besides being president of the Young People of the Synod of Alabama, is also president of the entire General Assembly of the Young People’s League of the Southern Presbyterian Church. He was elected to this position at the meeting of the Assembly’s Council in Montreat last summer. This is the highest position that the Southern Presbyterian Church has to offer a young person. Davidson should be proud to have such boys, who are famous in the church, in the college.

LOCAL ETA NU PI
(Continued from Page 5)

Also, during the weekend Brother Thurston journeyed to the W. C. U.N.C. chapter in Greensboro, where he planned to go over the records of that chapter with the local secretary.

SMITH BEGINS ALUMNI CHAPTER IN COLUMBIA

Conrad Frederick Smith, Davidson’s alumni secretary, journeyed to Columbia, S.C., last Thursday night for the purpose of organizing an alumni chapter there. Coach Gene McEver and Mr. Norman Shephard accompanied him there and they report a very successful meeting. There were about twenty Davidson alumni present. Caldwell-Withers, '28, city editor of The Columbia Record, was elected president of the group. It is believed that this will be a lively and helpful chapter. Coach McEver made a short talk on a subject which would naturally be of a great deal of interest to those in attendance. That is, the prospects of Davidson’s 1937 football team. His talk was most enjoyable and the Columbia grads have confidence that he will produce a winning team during his first year as head coach. Mr. Shephard also made a talk there in which he stressed the point that athletics are gaining a strong foothold in colleges and that they are fast becoming a definite part of the educational program. Fred Smith spoke on plans for the Centennial celebration which takes place next June. Smith also announced that a chapter will be organized in Florence before long which will include all of eastern South Carolina. Fred Smith was the guest of Bernard Baruch on a hunting trip while in South Carolina.

PATRONIZE DAVIDSON’S ONLY 5 and 10
SOUTHERN 5 & 10c Store

Regular Weekly Meeting Held By I.R.C. Last Friday

GAMMA SIGMA EPSILON
(Continued from Page 5)

...mon table salt from elemental sodium and chlorine. The principle of the thermite bomb was explained and demonstrated to the assembly by Roy Bigham. Harris Bradley obtained amazing luminous effects with the use of organic chemicals. The fact that wintergreen mints will give off light when chewed was shown. The ghostly fire-rag experiment left all gaping in wonder. He explained the light-energy reaction which occurred without the evolution of heat. Refreshments concluded the meeting.

McCLURE WILL LEAVE
(Continued from Page 1)

...course, left up to the board of trustees. His decision to change came so suddenly that they have had no time to think about anyone to take his place. During “Mac’s” stay here the whole student body has come to know and love him, and his departure will cause a great breach in life here at Davidson. He has very capably managed his duties at the Y.M.C.A., and has brought its work to new heights.

PHARR LEADS RIFLE TEAM
(Continued from Page 5)

With the able instruction of Major Ballard, himself a champion rifleman, the team has been making rapid strides, and will undoubtedly rank as one of the best college teams in the country.

Hal Overton Gives Talk Emphasizing Vast European Expenditures
MAY PRESENT BANQUET
To Plan For Series of Spring Programs

The International Relations Club held its weekly meeting on last Friday evening. The program for the most part consisted of a discussion of the rapidly rising expenditures of foreign countries for the purpose of armaments. Hal Overton gave a talk at the meeting and in his remarks graphically emphasized the enormous amounts spent daily by various European powers for re-arming. He compared the costs of armaments in Great Britain with the expenditures of France, Germany, and Russia. He mentioned the fact that England spends five million dollars a day on her army and navy and that Soviet Russia expended the staggering amount of one hundred and sixty million dollars daily in 1936 for armaments. The I.R.C. will hold its regular meeting next Friday night. At this time plans will be laid for a series of spring programs. A representative of the League of Nations is to make a tour of the United States in the near future and is contemplating visiting Davidson College. The I.R.C. is discussing the possibility of presenting a banquet in honor of this gentleman in case he decides to visit here.

Sodas - Candies - Where Everyone’s Your Friend
White Drug Company
Magazines — Toiletries — Stationery
Zenith & RCA Radios

Copyright 1937, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.

All over the country, you hear more people mention the refreshing mildness and the pleasing taste and aroma of Chesterfield cigarettes. You hear somebody compliment Chesterfields at a party. Another time, the grocer tells you it’s ‘a darn good cigarette. Or you see a group of men on a street corner, most of ’em smoking Chesterfields. Because they have what smokers like, Chesterfields are humming right along.