STUDENTS AWAIT SPRING DANCE SET PAN-HELLENIC COUNCIL ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS The Davidsonian VISITORS WILL INSPECT STUDENTS’ ROOMS TOMORROW
AFTERNOON VOL. XXV DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., MAY 5, 1937 NO. 3

Major Charles L. Steele Named As Successor For Seifert at Davidson
Comes Directly From Staff School at Fort Leavenworth, Kas.
COMMENDED BY RHETT
Seifert Will Assume Post in Puerto Rico

The appointment of Major Charles L. Steele to replace Major Charles Seifert on the staff of the Davidson R. O.
T. C. unit was announced last week by the War Department in Washington. Major Seifert leaves Davidson after a six-year
period of service for a post in Puerto Rico. Major Steele comes to Davidson directly from the Command and General
Staff School at Fort Leavenworth, Kansas.

Major Steele is a native of Maryland and received his higher education at Pennsylvania State College from which he graduated
with a B. S. Degree in electrical engineering. He entered the army in November, 1916 as a Second Lieutenant of
the Infantry. Since then he has served continuously for twenty-one years. He was graduated from the Advanced Infantry School at
Fort Benning, Ga., in 1931.

Major Steele has just completed a course at the Command and General Staff school at Fort Leavenworth which is reputedly
the most difficult school which the army conducts. Lieut.-Col. Rhett, head of the local R. O. T. C. post is
personally acquainted with Major Steele and commends him highly. Major Steele is married and will be accompanied here by his
wife and four children. He is expected to report sometime during the summer, according to the time he is allowed
for leave.

If army officials approve, Major Seifert plans to spend several weeks in travel before going to Puerto Rico. He wants
to get an auto trailer and tour the west, including Yellowstone and Yosemite national parks.

ODK HOLDS INITIATION OF SIXTEEN NEW MEN
Delta Circle Hears Dr. Hubert Poteat Speak on Modern Education at Banquet

On Saturday evening of last week the Delta Circle of Omicron Delta Kappa initiated ten leaders of the Davidson College
student body and five honorary members during its spring pledging ceremony on last Wednesday morning. The initiation was held in
Chambers building at six fifteen o'clock and the following men were taken into the chapter: Lake Hill, A. M. Faison,
Ken Scott, Russell Patterson, Dick Vowles, J. K. Dorsett, M. L. Lafferty, Haywood Hill, Wade Barrow, and Bailey Williams of
the Davidson student body, Col. John T. Rhett of the Davidson College faculty, and Dr. Hubert Poteat, Rev. Leroy P.
Burney, Messrs. Gettys Guille, Thomas Staley, and Thomas Bethea. The last five men mentioned were initiated as honorary members.

Immediately following the initiation a banquet was held in the basement of Chambers building in honor of the initiates. Sixty
persons were present at the banquet and the guests consisted of thirty undergraduates and thirty alumni, faculty and friends. Mr.
Frank L. Jackson, national president of Omicron Delta Kappa made a short talk and the honorary initiates also made brief
speeches. Wilbur Edwards, president of the Delta circle, served as toastmaster.

The main speaker of the evening was Dr. Hubert Poteat, professor of languages at Wake Forest. His address was a
brilliant attack on modern educational methods used in our high schools and many of our (Continued on Page 6)

Dr. Seris Speaks On War-Time Spain

Dr. Homero Seris spoke to a large number of students and outsiders in Chambers auditorium last night, May 4, on
the subject of “War Time Spain.” Dr. Seris is from El Centro de Estudios Historicos of Madrid. He is a
visiting professor for this term at the University of North Carolina in Chapel Hill. Dr. Seris came to this country
from Spain last fall. This address was made in English. Immediately after the lecture Sigma Delta Pi held a special
meeting of which Dr. Seris was a guest. At this meeting Sigma Delta Pi conferred an honorary membership upon Dr.
Seris.

OPENING BROADCAST IN DAVIDSON SERIES GIVEN ON TUESDAY
Sketches Portraying History Of Davidson to Be Presented Weekly
BROADCAST OVER WSOC

Prof. Sugg and Mrs. Smith Write First Script

The first in a series of dramatic episodes dealing with significant events in the history of Davidson College was presented
last Thursday afternoon at 1:30 over station WSOC in Charlotte.

DOORS OPENED TO TOWN IN OPEN HOUSE
Burwell, Old Alumnus, to Be Interviewed at Conclusion of Tour
EVENT UNIQUE HERE

Harold Sugg and Mrs. N. T. Smith in Charge

Doors of two Davidson dormitories will be thrown open to the public tomorrow afternoon, between four and five o’clock in
an “open house” unique on this campus. Friends of the college and faculty have been invited, and in the course
of the hour they will be conducted through the ground floors of Watts and Georgia dormitories. At the conclusion of
this inspection, an interview with Dr. Burwell, who is one of the oldest Davidson alumni, will be held on the
steps of Georgia. He will be asked to compare the rooming accommodations of his college days with those of today.

Mrs. N. T. Smith, for fifteen years the capable supervisor of dormitories here, is assisting in making preparations. Everything is
set for the occasion tomorrow, according to Harold Sugg, head of the student committee which is charged with arranging the
affair. The guests are to meet in the parlor of Watts, and thence they will proceed through the first floors
of Watts and Georgia dormitories. Prominent students will be on hand to receive the guests and refreshments will be served
in the first dormitory. Though this is the first open house in memory here, the sponsors of the plan anticipate
success. Aside from the social aspect, it is believed that there are many local people who would enjoy the opportunity
to see in what condition students’ rooms are kept at Davidson. When the plan was proposed to the student body
last Saturday it was enthusiastically received. No effort is being made to “pack” the rooms to be inspected, to improve
their appearance, but Mrs. Smith and Sugg requested that the rooms be particularly clean.

The following students, representing (Continued on Page 6)

Kenyon Is Named As Best Frosh Debater

Winners in the freshman debating tournament have been announced by Charlie Mauze, who has been freshman debating manager for this
year. Dick Kenyon won first place in the tournament, while Bob Kellogg took second place, and George Milne third. The
first two will be presented keys as a token of their exceptional ability and proficiency in debating this year. Other
contestants in the tournament were Jack Holland, Paul Marion, and Bob Ramsey. To choose the best of these six, a
tournament was held among themselves where each contestant spoke for both the affirmative and negative sides. There were three debates
in which teams of two spoke. Points were awarded for the best individual speaker of each night and also for
speaking for the winning team. Kellogg and Kenyon were on the winning sides in each of their debates, while Milne
won once and lost once.

FOR HANDBOOK
Cage Brewer Is Named Business Manager of “Y” Publication For 1937-38

Hector McGeachy, who was recently elected editor-in-chief of the Y. M. C. A. Handbook, has chosen his staff which will
assist him in editing it for next year. The chosen members of the staff are as follows: Kenneth Scottie, athletic
editor; John Mawhinney, fraternity editor; Locke White, Y. M. C. A. editor; J. C. Doster, student government editor; McLean Lawson,
general editor; Raynal, activities editor; and Kenneth McLean, editor.

Cage Brewer was chosen business manager of the Handbook for next year. He is a member of Phi Gamma Delta
social fraternity, a sophomore football manager and is on the Quips and Cranks staff for next year. He succeeds Lawrence
Reid in this position. Brewer chose for his assistants on the business staff of the Handbook, Jack Holland, Dick Kenyon
and Jim Cooper.

The Y. M. C. A. Handbook is issued each year to help students and new freshmen acquaint with the college.

Vowles Selected As Publications Head

Richard Vowles, Editor of The Davidsonian, was elected president of the Publications Board last Thursday in the annual publications election.
Selected to serve with Vowles on the board were Jim Dorsett, editor of the Quips ’n Cranks, and Sam Ryburn,
editor of the Scripts ’n Pranks. The three victorious men, all editors of student publications were chosen from an eligible
field which included also the business managers of the various publications as well as the editorial heads. Vowles succeeds J.
K. Abernethy, editor of the forthcoming year-book, as president of the board. Other members of the retiring board are Jim
Morton and Hal Overton.

The Publications Board is the governing body for all campus publications and also is in charge of awarding contracts for
printing.MAGAZINE ANNOUNCES MEMBERS OF STAFF: BEGIN WORK IN FALL

Plans Being Made Whereby Students Can Obtain Extra Copies

COPIES MAILED FREE

Ryburn, Harkey Appoint New Assistants

Sam Ryburn, newly elected editor of the Scripts 'n Pranks, and Henry Harkey, business manager, have announced their staff for
the coming year. This staff will go into office with the fall issue of the magazine in the coming school
term. Harkey also stated that plans are being made whereby students will be able to place orders, at the beginning
of next year, for extra copies or subscriptions, which will be mailed directly at the time of publication, without extra
charge.

The editorial staff includes Dick Vowles, art editor; Bill Rader, Mac Covington, and Pete McKnight, associate editors; Henry Baker, Jerry
Doster, Gene Lippfert, Locke White, Fred Stair, Rut Miller, and Cage Brewer, managing editors. The business staff includes Paul Stone,
circulation manager; Don Davidson, Bill Howell, Oscar Joyner, and Tom Casali.

COLLEGE "Y" GROUPS ELECT HAYWOOD HILL

Hill Has Been Active in "Y" Work and Is President Of D. C. Cabinet

At a state-wide convention held last weekend, Haywood Hill of the senior class of Davidson was elected vice-president of this
organization in the state. Miss Carol Strauss of Duke was chosen president. The conclave was held at Camp Nawakwa, near
Greensboro. Some sixty-five delegates from colleges in the state attended.

A group of four, selected by the "Y" council, represented Davidson. They were Wade Street, Sherrard Rice, Watson Boggs, and
the Reverend Lee. Prominent speakers at the convention were Dr. Beittel of Blacksburg, Va., and Dr. Sheppard of Guilford College.
Hill, recently elected president of the Davidson "Y" cabinet, is active in "Y" work.

MID-YEAR EXAMS ARE ABOLISHED AT VASSAR

Signs of relief can be heard in any corner of the Vassar College campus. Mid-year examinations have been abolished in
order to give greater continuity to the academic schedule.

MEMBERS ARE SELECTED

Watson Street and Hector McGeachy Chosen Senior Representatives

DR. ARBUCKLE ELECTED

Haywood Hill Is Ex-Officio Member of Board

Watson Street and Hector McGeachy were named senior members of the "Y" board of control in a run-off election held
Monday, and Dr. Arbuckle was re-elected for a three-year term as faculty member. Sherrard Rice, Wade Boggs, and O. Walker
were still contesting for the two junior positions on the board.

Street and McGeachy, together with Haywood Hill, ex-officio member, and Monroe Wicker, who was elected last year for a two-year
term, constitute the rising senior element on the new board of control. They succeed Frank Brown, Wade Boggs, Wrenn Scott,
and Walt Dickson, ex-officio member.

Duties of the board of control are administrative and advisory. It controls the policy of the "Y" service and complements
the cabinet in action. Other faculty members of the board are Prof. J. P. Williams and Mr. I. Lotdaekson. Other
ex-officio members are Dr. W. L. Lingle, Dr. H. M. Moffett, and Mr. McClure.

SYMPHONIC BAND FINISHES TOUR

Symphonic Band Returns From Southern Concert Tour on Thursday

The Davidson College Symphonic Band has just completed a tour to Greenville, S.C., and Atlanta, Ga., this past week. Warren
Pfohl accompanied them as leader.

The group of some fifty boys left in two buses just after chapel on Monday, April 5th. They arrived in
Greenville, S.C., last Monday night and played there at the high school. They ate dinner in Spartanburg, where the principal
of Greenville invited them to play at Furman College. After playing in Greenville, they went to Furman College, where they
played their instruments. Then they were assigned to private homes for supper and a place to sleep. That night they
played for the girls at Furman at 8:30.

The boys spent the day traveling, leaving Greenville at 9:00 and reaching Agnes Scott College at 3:30. They broadcast from
station WSB in Atlanta at 5:30 and returned to Decatur, where they were assigned to private homes for the night.
All had supper at the Hotel Decatur. Then they presented a concert at Agnes Scott at 10:00.

The next day they played at Stone Mountain, but due to a conflict with the school, they were unable to
play. The band returned to Davidson at 8:00 on Wednesday night. The boys attended classes on Thursday.

Davidson's Dance Season Ends With Dailey Playing For Annual Bowery Ball

Scabbard and Blade Will Sponsor Military Ball on Friday Night

The May edition of Scripts 'n Pranks will feature an alumni issue, Hal Overton, editor, announced that contributions by former
editors of the magazine will be published. The principal feature will be an article by Vereen Bell, of the class
of '32, who is at present assistant editor of the American Boy magazine. Mr. Bell is also well known as
a short story writer, one of his works having appeared in a recent issue of Colliers.

Scripts 'n Pranks will also feature a picture section made up of snapshots from the dormitories, as well as a
story on the pageant, and a short story by Wade Barrow.

NEW MANAGERS OF STUDENT STORE BEGIN DUTIES SOON

Billy Crooks and Lawrence Reid Chosen From Group of Five Applicants

TO SELECT CLERKS SOON

Crooks and Reid Succeed Barnes and Overton in Positions

The responsibility of managing Davidson's Student Store for the coming year was awarded to William B. Crooks and Lawrence Reid
last Wednesday by the Student Store Board. Crooks was elected purchasing manager, to succeed Stewart Barnes. Lawrence Reid, taking Hal
Overton's place, will be the financial manager.

The new managers will take over the work on May 10th. Crooks and Reid will select their clerks soon. The
board which selected these men was composed of the student body president, Wilbur Edwards, and other members.

William North Theiling Wins Medals In Rifle Competition

K. L. Theiling, a member of the first-year advanced ROTC class, was the winner of the prize rifle team medal
for the past season's shooting. Theiling will receive the medal at the next parade. He was the highest scorer on
the team with an average of 87.5 percent. Freshman W. E. Kunz was a close second with an average of
87.3 percent.

A. Wearlick took the medal awarded to the highest upperclassman, with an average of 85.5 percent. Four other medals were
won by the second and third highest upperclassmen and the second and third highest freshmen. The date for the presentation
of the rifle awards has not been announced by the military department, but it is thought that they will be
given to the riflemen at some parade in the very near future.

The rifle team will meet Citadel's crack sharpshooters in the first shoulder-to-shoulder match of the season on May 14. It
is expected that the team will journey to Charleston to face the Citadel on their home range later in the
month.

PROF. FLEAGLE PLANS COURSES FOR SUMMER

Large Enrollment of Fifty Already Registered For Summer Session

Anyone desiring information about the summer courses, fees, and other details can secure a bulletin from Professor F. Fleagle in
his office, 303 Chambers Building. The summer session will include courses in Spanish and other subjects.
