WILDCATS TAKE SECEDERS, 21-6

VOL. XXV

Dr. D. G. Barnhouse to Hold "Y" Services

Philadelphia Minister Will Conduct Meetings For Four Days

TO SPEAK TWICE DAILY

Pastor Gave Address Here Last Year

"Y" SPEAKER

Beginning Tuesday, October 5, through Friday, October 8, Dr. Donald G. Barnhouse, pastor of the Tenth Presbyterian Church of Philadelphia,
Pa., will speak twice daily to the students of Davidson in the annual fall services sponsored by the Y. M.
C. A. Chapel periods during the three days will be lengthened to allow time for Dr. Barnhouse’s talk. He will
also give an address at meetings held at 7 o'clock each evening during the services in Chambers auditorium.

Dr. Barnhouse has had a varied and illustrious career as a minister. Leaving Princeton University and Princeton Theological Seminary, where
he was studying simultaneously, to enlist in the Army, he served to the end of the World War as a
first lieutenant in the U. S. Air Service. While in active service the Monmouth Presbytery ordained him into the ministry.
For seven years after the war he remained in Europe, first doing relief work in Belgium, then studying at the
University of Grenoble, in France. During these years in Europe Dr. Barnhouse traveled extensively, residing at one time in Athens,
and another time in London.

Dr. D. G. Barnhouse, of Philadelphia, who has accepted an invitation to conduct the Y. M. C. A. Fall Services
here, Oct. 5-8.

Large Amount Given To Fund

Donations to Centennial Fund Increase Steadily During Summer

Dr. Myers For Vespers

Dr. Charles F. Myers, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Greensboro, in his sermon at Sunday night vespers September
20, said, "Conserve the past, consecrate the present, and face the future with courage." Mrs. Dewey Farrell, soprano of Myers’
church in Greensboro, sang two special hymns, “Blessed Are They Which Are Persecuted” by Ward and Stephens, and “A Clean
Heart” by Smith.

Taking as his text Ecclesiastes 9:11, Dr. Myers urged the students to: “rejoice in youth, and get all you can
from it: but remember that sometime you will have to answer for it.” He pointed out the facts that in
each one of us there are really four persons—the man the world sees, the man our best friends see, the
man we ourselves see, and the man God sees. “All of us have three periods in our lives to consider,”
he stated, “our past, present and future. Today we are doing many things to conserve our wild fowl, our game,
our forests, and our health, but what are we doing to conserve our real wealth—the manhood of America?” He exhorted
the students to think of their past, to remember and hold sacred the ideals of character handed down from previous
generations.

Erection of Infirmary At Davidson

Modern Structure on Concord Road Is Being Completed

$25,000.00 IS SUBSCRIBED

Name of Subscriber Not Yet Revealed

Rev. R. L. Alexander To Speak October 3

Rev. R. L. Alexander, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Lumberton, N. C., will speak at the regular vesper
service next Sunday, October 3, in the auditorium of Chambers building. This year is Rev. Alexander's fourth in the pulpit
of the church at Lumberton. He studied at Southwestern University, Memphis, Tenn., finishing there a little over a decade ago.
While in college he starred in both football and basketball. After receiving his college diploma, Dr. Alexander went to Columbia
Theological Seminary, then settled in Columbia, S. C., to study for the ministry.

The Davidson campus is now being filled with the construction of a new and modern infirmary. The new building, which
is being erected on Concord Road, facing the Martin Chemistry building, is a result of the Centennial movement. Money for
its construction, totaling $25,000, was subscribed by one family, whose name has not yet been revealed. It is known, however,
that a son of the family is now an undergraduate here.

Plans of the new infirmary show that it is to be a two-story "T" shaped affair, with the top of
the "T" to the street. A large room, office, examining room, operating and X-ray room, with an apartment for the
matron in attendance, will occupy the lower floor of the front of the building. On the same level to the
rear will be two private rooms, a ward, and a solarium with enough beds to care for a normal amount
of sickness. Upstairs in front there will be another ward and several rooms for visitors which may be used by
patients in an emergency. The basement of the rear wing is to be above ground and, though it is not
to be equipped for the present, it will be available for future use.

One Hundred Boys Work for NYA

National Headquarters Greatly Reduces the Quota For This Year

About one hundred men have applied this year for work to be paid from funds furnished by the National Youth
Administration to aid in the education of American youth. For the past four years the NYA has been assisting students
in various ways.

No Decision On Dancing

First Definite Dances to Be the Homecoming Set on November 6

Faculty Will Render Verdict In October

Last week showed no new developments in the present dance situation which originated last spring when the student council filed
a petition to the faculty requesting permission to hold formal dances. However, the president of the council announced that plans
were being made for the Homecoming dance on November 6.

After his return to the United States he accepted a position on the faculty of the University of Pennsylvania and
agreed to serve at the same time as pastor of the Grace Presbyterian Church of Philadelphia. In 1927 he resigned
both of these positions to become pastor of the Tenth Presbyterian Church in Philadelphia. In 1934 Dr. Barnhouse made a
tour of the world, visiting many of the mission fields of the Presbyterian Church. During the past summer he studied
in Germany under a grant from the Carl Schurz Foundation of the Oberlander Trust. Besides his regular preaching duties, he
does a great deal of radio work, and is editor of “Revelation,” a monthly magazine of Christian Truth. Students who
heard Dr. Barnhouse’s address here at Davidson last year are looking forward enthusiastically to the services.

ROTC Work Of Highest Order

J. L. Ballard Praises Cadets at Fort McClelland

“The work was of the very, very highest order,” said Major J. L. Ballard, of the local ROTC post, with
reference to the showing of the Davidson cadets encamped at Fort McClelland, Ala., for six weeks during the past summer.
Major Ballard also said that none of the cadets returned with demerits, but all of them showed some merit—some higher
than others. Major Ballard accompanied 37 men from the local post to the camp. Although scattered in different parts of
the camp battalion for the major portion of the drill work, the Davidson group reunited to take third place in
the competitive platoon drill. The cadets received training in six different types of guns, from the three-inch trench mortar and
the thirty-seven millimeter gun to the automatic rifle, service rifle, pistol and machine gun. Four men of the local unit
qualified as sharpshooters and fifteen as marksmen. In athletics, Jim Wilson brought away first prize for the individual equipment race.
Howard McFadyen, heavyweight wrestler, took a shot at heavyweight boxing but was eliminated after the second round of the tourney.
The Davidson representatives placed second in the wall scaling event. Regular Army officers were in charge of the training.

And Science Hall

Some $165,000 has been added to the credit of Davidson College through the Centennial Fund since May, 1936, announced Dr.
Walter L. Lingle last week. In an article prepared for the college bulletin to be published within a few days,
Dr. Lingle states that since May 1, 1937, about $80,000 has been contributed or subscribed to the fund. Included in
this figure is one large gift of $25,000 for the new infirmary, now under construction. Previously, from May 1936 to
May 1937, approximately $85,000 was given to the college for use on special projects. It is explained that the campaign
is not completed by any means. No time limits or quotas were set, as the drive was never intended to
be an intensive one. Rather, it is a quiet movement which is to continue, it is planned, until more adequate
equipment is secured for the school. A new library building and a new Science hall are the immediate objectives. Dr.
Lingle adds: “We wish that some family who has been richly blessed with means could erect one of these buildings.
It would make a beautiful family memorial.”

Rhodes Scholarships To Be Applied For

All members of the senior class who are interested in Rhodes scholarships for 1937 are requested to apply to Dr.
G. R. Vowles, in writing, by October 19. Dr. Vowles is chairman of the Davidson College committee, the other members
being Professors Cumming and Lilly. The applications must be in the hands of the secretary of the state committee not
later than November 6, 1937. Mr. C. C. Walker, Wachovia Bank & Trust Co.,

WILDCATS TAKE SECEDERS, 21-6

Unleashing a whip-lash attack in the third period that was not to be denied, Davidson's Wildcats trounced a fighting Erskine
team, 21-6, last Saturday. After a Davidson scoring threat had been blocked in the second period by a penalty, Erskine
put on an amazing show of razzle-dazzle that together with a costly fumble enabled them to push over a score
and leave the field at the half leading by 6-0. But it was a different story when the two teams
returned from the rest period. With "Teeny" Lafferty, that amazing ball of dynamite from Concord, back in the lineup after
an early injury, the Cats literally tore up the field for three scores. Each time it was Lafferty who lugged
the leather across that final white mark and into the promised land. Each time it was his scintillating dashes that
put the ball in scoring position. After each score the trusty toe of Captain Bailey Williams accurately booted the ball
through the uprights for the extra point.Winston-Salem, is the secretary for North Carolina. Selections will be made by the state
committee on December 16 and 18, and by the district committee on December 20, 1937. Scholars selected in this competition
will enter Oxford University in October, 1938. Thirty-two scholarships of this type, carrying with them a stipend of $2,000, are
given to 32 boys in the United States every year, according to the will of Cecil John Rhodes, “empire builder”
of South Africa. Each appointment is made by the 12 men appearing before it. The truth, courage, and devotion to
their parents, Dr. Myers told the students, will be harder to live up to after they graduate than while they
are in school. “Twenty years from now,” he said, “you will be the same fellow you are today, only more
so. When you graduate from this college, everyone here will remember your name as having some significance, either good or
bad.”

“The greatest plaudit,” said Dr. Myers, “that can be paid to any man can be found in the tribute paid
by a Princeton professor to a fellow professor. ‘His reputation, ideals, and college hung on the perilous edge of no
doubtful practices.’ Face the future with courage,” he told his audience. “Courage is the standing of the soul, ready for
any emergency.” Lastly, Dr. Myers urged the students to keep physically fit, to stay always in communion with God, and
to keep pure the house of the soul given us by God. That is the secret of success in the
great game of life,” he said.

An East-West collegiate ski meet, matching teams of Dartmouth and the University of Washington, is being promoted for Idaho's spectacular
Sun Valley course. For two years, with a possible third, depending on the student's good record, no restriction is placed
on his choice of studies. The competition is organized by districts containing six states each. Each state committee nominates two
candidates to appear before the district committee, and the district committee may select four to represent their states at Oxford.
The qualities which Rhodes specified in his will as forming the basis of selection are: (1) literary and scholastic ability
and attainments; (2) qualities of manhood, truth, courage, devotion to duty, sympathy, kindliness, unselfishness, and fellowship; (3) force of character,
and instinct to lead; (4) physical vigor. Some definite quality of distinction, whether in intellect, character, or personality, or in
any combination of them, is the most important requirement for a Rhodes scholarship.

According to preset plans, the building will be ready for occupation somewhere near the middle of November. The structure is
of red brick style similar to its week, and Chambers. Mrs. A. T. Hobson, former superintendent of the infirmary, who
retired last month, has been succeeded by Mrs. Irving Johnston. Mrs. Johnston and her husband will make their home in
the new infirmary. As resident nurse, she will be there at all times for the calls of the students. Mrs.
Johnston received her nurse's degree from the Long Sanatorium in Statesville and has had a fairly long experience. She is
pronounced by Dr. MacConnell a most able technician.

Faculty Holds Summer Posts
Two Teach at Carolina, Another at Duke

Among the Davidson professors who taught in other colleges during the summer were Dr. C. K. Brown and Dr. Vowles,
who taught at the University of North Carolina, and Dr. Gwynn, who taught in the summer school at Duke University.
Dr. Brown held an undergraduate class in money at the U.N.C. summer school during the first session, which lasted for
six weeks. Dr. Vowles held consultation classes in advanced German in the poems of Goethe and Schiller, in addition to
undergraduate classes in conversation and composition. These classes were held during the second summer session. While Dr. Gwynn attended and
lectured at a number of gatherings during the summer, he taught only at Duke University. His classes were in the
graduate school and dealt with the problems of high school administration. Those who attended were, for the most part, either
high school principals or persons who were studying for that position. Topics discussed were ones such as extra-curricular activities, the
position that the school should hold in the community, and others of interest to those concerned with high school management.
Dr. Gwynn has received outstanding recognition in his line of endeavor in that he was asked to preside over the
morning session of the conference.

The work done by Davidson men who need financial aid to complete their technical work varies from grading papers, laboratory
work, and coaching off-campus work in the Davidson and Cornelius high schools. The amount of money available this year from
the national headquarters is only about half the amount received last year. For the 1936-37 session, the payroll was $1485
monthly, while this year it has dropped to $765 a month. This means that both the number of men employed
and the number of hours allowed each man must be reduced. Last year averaged 143 men. The first payroll month
ends October 2, and the following points are called to the attention of NYA students:

1. Time report sheets must be in the hands of the supervising faculty member by Monday noon, October 4, properly
signed by students and supervisors.
2. No name can be put on the payroll until an application blank, properly filled out and signed by the
student and his father, has been approved by the committee.
3. Any student who works more than the number of hours allowed him by the committee can be paid for
the extra time only if there is sufficient money for that month to meet the demand for extra hours.

The Homecoming dance will be held in the first half. Time and again they would slice at awe gains but
just as often they would falter when victory was in sight. Erskine had one chance, and that chance was good
when big Jit Pressley plunged over from the one-yard line. It was evident as the third period started that the
Wildcats were a different team. With Lafferty carrying the mail on almost every occasion and with the blocking that had
previously been lacking, the Cats marched right up the field without losing possession of the ball, Lafferty going over on
a six-yard march around right end. Davidson gained possession of the ball on an intercepted pass, and again marched over.
The spectators were barely seated when Lafferty grabbed one of Pressley's end-over-end kicks and zigzagged his way up to the
midfield stripe, from where another scoring drive started. This time a beautiful forward lateral made the difference.

Arrowsmith said that the petition of the Council by which they hope to reach some more satisfactory settlement with the
administration had been formally presented. The petition will be considered at the next regular meeting of the faculty, which is
scheduled for October 5. No definite decision can be expected until that time. Although the details of the council petition
could not be made public, it is quite definite that it seeks a more generous dance program than that set
forth by the faculty ruling of June 10. The council's plans for the Homecoming set consist of a Friday night
formal along with a Saturday night informal. They have planned for no tea dance because of the football game with
the University of North Carolina. Should the present restrictions remain in effect, this will be the only two-night set during
this semester. Arrowsmith also said that the council would begin an advance sale of tickets for the Mid-Winter dances in
the near future. No price has been decided on as yet for the tickets, but it will be advertised shortly.

College Begins Broadcasting Radio Programs Over Station WSOC Friday Night

Davidson College will begin its annual season of radio programs over Station WSOC, Charlotte, on Friday evening. This program will
be from 7:15 to 7:30 and will feature the college band in songs of various colleges. Interesting football news will
also be given on this program; both coaches and players will be interviewed from time to time. There will also
be another program over WSOC, beginning next Saturday morning. This program, from 9 to 9:15, will be entitled the "Gym
Time Program." It will be broadcast directly from Davidson, as also will the Friday evening program.

Wildcats to Meet Duke in Colorful Atmosphere

Richardson Field, next Saturday, will be the scene of one of the most colorful games to be played this year
at Davidson, when the Wildcats meet Duke’s Blue Devils for the second home game this season. The 1936-37 custom of
having sponsors sit on the sidelines during the games will be revived. Twelve beautiful girls with their escorts will add
to the color and gay atmosphere of the contest. The Duke captain will choose one sponsor and the Duke team
will select the other five to sit on their side of the field Saturday. Bailey Williams, Davidson captain, will choose
one of the six Davidson sponsors and the remainder of the team will select the other five girls to wear
the Wildcat colors.

Fred Smith has issued a statement that, to add still further to the colorful contest, an old-fashioned calliope, of the
memorable circus days, will be on the scene and will supplement the musical selections furnished by the 35-piece Davidson band
and by the large Duke football band. From all indications, the attendance for this game will surpass or equal any
other game for the whole year. The tickets are being sold rapidly and the record attendance of 13,000 fans for
the Wake Forest game last year will be surpassed if the demand continues. Another improvement to be used for the
first time in this game is a new time clock which will indicate the time left to play during each
period and time until the end of the game. The clock will be in view of the stands so everyone
can see at any time the remaining time as well as the score.

There will also be a Davidson program over Station WBT, Charlotte, in the near future, but no definite time has
yet been decided. Both WBT and WSOC will broadcast the Davidson-Duke football game next Saturday from the press box on
Richardson Field. Last year’s programs, which were presented over WBT, were very successful. They lasted half an hour and were
presided over by Wilbur Edwards, student body president, who is now working on the staff of WBT.
