Page Six THE DAVIDSONIAN. WEDNESDAY, OCT. 27, 1937.

Question of the Week

Contrary to what you might think and most of the students, students otherwise, seem to be in favor of the new scholastic rules recently made public by the faculty. As you know, before this year upperclassmen not passing three subjects were forced to leave at the end of the first semester, and freshmen were allowed to remain until spring holidays. In February additional tickets are freshmen have Way T passing two ioning a third week. 

“What do you think of the new rules concerning ‘flunking out’?” This week we asked a number of students this question. Here’s what we got in reply:

Watson Street, Senior: (On the fence) “I'm ‘agin it’ and for it but I can see the administration’s viewpoint because of the crowded conditions.”

Tip Harrison, Senior: “Some who might not do so well at first might do better later. However, I think it’s better to get them out of school and avoid wasting a whole year.”

Locke White, Junior: “I'm in favor of the new rules. They'll make a Davidson diploma worth more. As long as the school is crowded, they might as well make the scholastic requirements nearly equal to those of other eastern schools.”

Major Clark, Senior: “I’m in favor of the new rules. They would give students a better chance. Then, too, it has been found that the greater percentage of those who are ‘flunked out’ in February do not succeed later on.”

Joe Kellam, Senior: “I think the good old rule kept a freshman here longer when he probably would have flunked out anyway. The idea is merely to give the freshman a chance. A man that can’t pass at mid-term isn't likely to do so by spring holidays.”

Duke Frosh Conquer Davidson in Thriller Before Large Crowd

Wildkittens Come Through in Fine Style Although Outweighed 20 Pounds Per Man; High Point Stadium Dedicated

Four Netters In Semi-Finals

The High Point last Friday to play the Duke Freshmen in the new High Point College stadium, but they came out on the short end of the score, 7-0, after playing a wonderful game. The game was a part of the celebration of the dedication of the stadium of the High Point College.

The Duke team entered the game known for two fast and a top-heavy favorite over the Wildkittens, but even though they were about twenty pounds per man, the Wildkittens came through in wonderful style to hold the Blue Devils to only one score.

The Duke team grabbed the kickoff and ran through the entire Davidson team for the lone six-pointer of the afternoon. This break was the deciding factor in the game, for otherwise, the two teams played on fairly even terms. The game was an unexciting, uninteresting contest, and both teams showed good coordination in their offense.

First Downs 5 to 2

Duke had a total of five first downs to the Davidsonians’ two. These figures show a slight edge for Duke, but they could not put the ball over the goal line with plays from scrimmage. The whole Davidson team played excellent ball, and even though they did not beat their opponents, they gave the Blue Devils the hardest game they have had from Davidson in the last three years.

Davidson quarterback, Feuchtenberger, got off a punt return and almost got away for a touchdown but a Duke man pulled him down from behind on the Duke 35-yard line. Just a little later Bob Johnson intercepted a pass and carried the ball 45 yards before he was also pulled down from behind by a Duke man.

John King Injured

The only seriously injured member of the team was John King, who broke his arm against the Duke team. However, the team will be intact for the game on Friday with Presbyterian Junior College.

Newest Sport

“I have added intra-mural batminton to the program this year,” said “Pete” Whittle, “I plan to start intra-mural competition in batminton this week.” Davidson is the first school in the south to institute batminton as a part of its intra-mural program, although North Carolina is contemplating putting it in their program.

Batminton is not to be confused with badminton, which is somewhat like tennis. Batminton is played with a paddle instead of a racquet, and the net is seven feet high instead of the five feet, one inch of badminton. The game is much faster than conventional badminton, and it is more enjoyable than badminton.

The scoring is like that of volleyball, in that only the server gets points. Both singles and doubles can be played, and the first to get fifteen points wins the game. The best three out of five games constitute a match.

For the matches to be played soon, the sports managers will select the teams to help with this. There are three courts available.

Smashing Back

Bill Bolin, Davidson's flashy mainstay on the team this year, is an excellent tackler and a high percentage of tackles can be accredited to him. Bolin is also an outstanding running and blocking back and the Wildcats are depending on him to carry a heavy load against Furman on Saturday.

Sophs Second In Class Ball

In the last game of the inter-class touch football program, the sophomores emerged victorious over a scrapping freshman team by a score of 6-0, and also won second place in the race for class honors. The lone touchdown was scored on a pass to Scott. The Sophomores scored their touchdown after playing the Freshmen all over the field. The Sophs threatened again in the last half, but their attack bogged down in the shadow of the goalposts.The first-year boys played a good game to work their way into scoring position. Casali and Yates played the best game for the Sophs, while Williams, Turner, and Hogg stood out for the Frosh. They were unable to score a goal.

Juniors Go Undefeated
The Juniors, who emerged from their six-game schedule undefeated, easily captured the title and proved themselves far superior to the other three teams. Johnson, Sample, Marquess, and Tice were the stars of the victorious Junior team. This same team has won the title for the last two years. In second place were the luckless Sophomores, who won three and lost three. The Seniors and the Freshmen ended their schedule in a tie for third place, each winning two and losing four. Yates, Casali, and Lock Hunter stood out during the season for the second-year men. Green, Wilson, and Yates played consistently well for the Seniors throughout the short season. For the Frosh, Betty, Hogg, and Turner kept the Freshmen in the running.

Quaker Harriers Downed By Undefeated Wildcats
Keeping their record clear, the undefeated cross-country varsity team won against Guilford Friday afternoon by a score of 24 to 32. Boo Woodward led the Wildcat harriers to victory on the three-mile course. Walker and Woodward gave Davidson a tie for first place with a time of 15:53, seven seconds above the record for the course. Captain Meiburn led the Guilford runners by taking third place, 20 yards behind the leaders. Over the first two miles of the race, Woodward held the front position; then Walker pulled ahead with him. On the last half mile, Walker took the lead and slowed Woodward. Bruce Parcell followed close in fourth place, and Bob Kellog finished sixth, while Joe Gammon of Davidson was eleventh, completing the score. The 'Cats conquered the Quaker opposition with a larger margin than last year’s 27-28 win. With Duke, N.C. State, and Guilford behind them, the Davidson team faces Mercer and Auburn Universities this weekend in a Southern trip. The three schools will meet in a triangular meet on Friday at Macon, Ga., as a part of Mercer’s Homecoming celebration. Davidson beat the Mercer boys decisively last fall but has not met Auburn in any previous cross-country engagement. Tryouts this week will determine those who make the trip. Bill Telford, Dick Gammon, Dan Gilliam, John Wilson, and Reed Patterson will make a bid for positions among the first seven. Recently they have shown strength in practice, keeping up much closer to the front in the daily workouts.

For paddles and shuttlecocks, they will be available at any time. Badminton should prove to be one of the most popular sports on the intramural program from the reception it has received in other places, as well as its early reception here. The date of use at present in the gymnasium would probably be the chapel period early in December. Though it had been previously planned to present a speaker in October, a suitable man could not be secured to fill the engagement at any time during the month. Dr. Currie hopes to have a nationally prominent figure here for the occasion in December. So far, the only school in North Carolina to respond to the President's suggestion has been the University of North Carolina, which presented a program about two weeks ago.

(Continued on Page 4)

MEET YOUR FRIENDS HERE
S&W CAFETERIA
West Trade Street
Charlotte, N.C.

Call Us When You Need Wood or Ice... Delivered Same Day...
DAVIDSON ICE & FUEL CO.
PHONE 130

Davidson Plays Guilford
Davidson and Maiden Highs battled to a scoreless deadlock last Thursday afternoon on Sprunt Field. This contest marked the third tie game of the current season for the locals. Maiden made their only threat early in the first period when, after taking the kickoff, they smashed their way for three consecutive first downs before fumbling on the Davidson forty, Church Heath recovering for Davidson. Thereafter, play was almost entirely in Maiden territory. In the waning moments of the game, the little Wildcats twice drove to the Maiden ten-yard stripe only to lose the ball on downs. Wallace Lothery, a shifty 115-pound halfback for Davidson, did some fine running, almost getting away on a forty-yard punt return. Wood, running hard off tackle, made several fine dashes but was never quite able to shake free.

Miller Sproull Wins; Enters Finals
Miller Sproull, second-seeded star, led the parade of Frosh tennis players into the finals of the annual fall tournament. Sproull played splendid tennis to crush Marshall Foote, 6-1, 6-1. Foote, former number two at Jacksonville, Fla., was off form for the day and could not match the all-around form of the Anniston, Ala., boy. Dick Shore, upset conqueror of Billy Turner, number one seeded freshman at the University of Michigan, sneaked over a pass, beating a hard-rushing SAE team.

Four Contests Open Interfrat Football Tourney Last Week
Phi Gams, S.P.E.’s, Phi Delts, and Kappa Sigs Win Opening Contests, Defeating Betas, S.A.E.’s, Pikas, and Pi Kappa Phis
The annual inter-fraternity football program got off during the past week with a bang. Four teams emerged victorious in the initial round of the first Round Robin tournament ever held here. In the first games, the Phi Gams whipped the Betas by an overwhelming margin of 18-0, while the Sig Eps were dropping the SAE’s 6-0. The Phi Delts turned loose on the Pikas and licked them 18-0, and in the last game played before this paper went to press, the Kappa Sigs licked the Pi Kappa Phis 6 to 0.

Phi Gams Pass to Win
The Phi Gams culminated a month’s practice session by heaving short and long passes all over the field and showing the most impressive victory of the series. Passes from Kiesewetter to Reid, Brown, and the Ganier twins proved too much for the Betas, and they fell, 18-0. Kiesewetter, the Ganier twins, and Brown played superb ball for the Phi Gams, while Abbot, Steere, and McClesky held their own for the Betas.

With neither team showing much power on the offense, the Sig Eps played for a pass, Sample to Tice, beating a hard-rushing SAE team. The game was played on about even terms, with the Sig Eps having a slight edge. Sample, Tice, and Crabb showed excellent work for the Sig Eps, while Faison, Jacobs, and Hackney played well for the SAE’s.

Phi Delts Win Decisively
On Friday afternoon, the Phi Delts served notice on other teams in the running with an impressive 18-0 victory over the Pikas. With Boyd heaving and Turner receiving, the Phi Delts completed pass after pass to spell defeat for a scrapping Pika bunch. Marquess, Craver, and Boyd did yeoman work for the Phi Delts, with Monger, Long, Durham, and Neal holding their own for the Pikas.

The last game played on Friday afternoon would be in the chapel period early in December. Though it had been previously planned to present a speaker in October, a suitable man could not be secured to fill the engagement at any time during the month. Dr. Currie hopes to have a nationally prominent figure here for the occasion in December. So far, the only school in North Carolina to respond to the President's suggestion has been the University of North Carolina, which presented a program about two weeks ago.

(Continued on Page 7)

Medicated with throat-soothing ingredients of Vicks VapoRub.

Bowling! Billiards!
REX RECREATION
—and—
20th CENTURY BOWLING
AIR-CONDITIONED YEAR ROUND
FREE TELEPHONE

CAROLINA THEATRE
Mooresville, N.C.
Thur.-Fri, Oct. 28-29
“Devil is Driving”
Starring RICHARD DIX
Mon.-Tues. Nov. 1-2
“Something to Sing About”
With JAMES CAGNEY
Davidson Students Welcomed

DON JUAN SHIRT
Tuxedo Ties 50c
National Shirt Shops
On the Square
Corner Tryon and Trade Sts.
CHARLOTTE, N.C.