Page Four THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, MAY 19, 1937

TRACK AND BASEBALL CAPTAINS ANNOUNCED FOR NEXT YEAR

SPORTS AFIELD

WILDCAT TEAMS END SEASON WITH SPLENDID RECORDS

Lose First Game 9-1; Second, 4-2, As Deacons Slug Ball Hard

J. D. HICKS HURLS WELL

Bankhead, Quick Lead Hitters In Final Averages

As the last issue of the paper goes to press, the Wildcats have finished their activities in the field of
sports and are about to face their greatest rival—exams. The Wildcats lost a doubleheader to a strong Wake Forest team
by scores of 9-1 and 4-2. Eddie started on the mound for the Wildcats but was replaced after the Deacons
scored a total of nine runs. The Wildcats scored their first run when Howard singled, advanced to second on a
hit, took third on an error, and scored on Quick's sacrifice fly. Chappel cinched the game for Wake Forest when
he scored the final run in the ninth inning. J. D. Hicks pitched well but could not shut down the
Deacon hitters.

The Wildcats scored the first run of the second game in the first inning. Howard singled, advanced to second on
a hit, and kept on to third on an error. He scored when Mauney hit a sacrifice fly. The Cats
continued to go ahead in the second inning when Hand's infield hit scored another run.

A Backward Glance

It seems entirely fitting at this time that we take a cursory glance at the record Davidson has made during
the year, which will go down on the books as one of the most successful ever enjoyed by the followers
of Felix. Last Fall, Doc Newton coached his last Davidson football team and turned out the best aggregation to wear
the Red and Black for a half score of years. Red Laird’s veteran basketball team had an in-and-out season but
can boast victories over State and Wake Forest, enough to claim the state championship under the tutelage of Parks Harrison.

Splendid Records

Pete Whittle’s track team took six straight dual meets, and it took the Mighty Blue Devils to stop its winning
streak. The racquet-wielders won ten out of their fourteen matches, numbering State among their victims. A stellar quartet of golfers
left a great record behind them, taking second in both the State and Conference meets. Composed largely of green material,
the baseball team did not show up so well in the won and lost column, but the fact that only
three regulars will graduate provides encouragement. Now it's Felix and I to close the door, but we'll be back next
fall to see Coach McE charge that opening game from State!

Win Over Phi Gamma Delta

Phi DELTS AND SAE MEET IN GOLF FINALS

Pika Teams in Semi-Final Matches

The inter-fraternity golf, which started some time ago, has progressed rapidly and now there only remain two teams in the
running, the Phi Delts and the SAE’s. This match will be played soon to determine the winner. In the first
round of play, all except the SPE's and Phi Delts drew byes. The Phi Delts won the first match of
the season, as the SPE's lost. In the second round, the Phi Gams were victorious over the Kappa Sigs, the
SAE’s over the Betas, the Pikas over the KA’s, and the Phi Delts over the Pi Kappa Phi’s. In the
semi-finals, the SAE's defeated the Phi Gams, and the Phi Delts overcame the Pikas. Perhaps the best match of the
tournament was played between the KA and the Phi Delts in which the Phi Delts emerged victorious.

THE COLLEGE INN (Formerly Davidson Hotel)

THE HIGHEST STATE HEALTH DEPARTMENT RATING IN DAVIDSON

Open For Summer

MRS. ANNE STRICKLAND School Dietitian

During Centennial Celebration Make Our Store Your HEADQUARTERS WHILE HERE

Z. V. LIVE PHARMACY 415 South Tryon Street

PAUL & CRYMES, INC. SPORTING GOODS CHARLOTTE, N. C.

YOU’LL SEE ’EM AGAIN NEXT FALL, DON!

South Carolina track team. Ned Iverson, end, of Miami, Fla.; “They look mighty big to me,” stated Don McAllister, South
Carolina football coach, as he watched a group of Davidson football players practicing on Richardson field, during his recent visit
here with the South Carolina track team. Reading left to right: Coach McAllister, Dave Warden, tackle, of Johnson City, Tenn.;
Bailey Williams, Captain and end, of Clinton, S. C.; and Bill Johnston, tackle, of Leesburg, Fla. Davidson will meet the
South Carolina Gamecocks in an important Southern Conference clash next year. These four men are some of the largest on
the squad.—(Courtesy Charlotte Observer).

Mazie Hall to Be Varsity Baseball Manager; C. K. Malone Manages Track

SEASONS ARE FINISHED

Wicker Runs Hurdles; Kellam Is Catcher

Monroe Wicker was elected to captain the varsity track team, and Joe Kellam to lead the varsity baseball nine for
the coming season, at recent meetings of the respective teams. Wicker has been a regular on the track team for
the past two seasons, running in the high and low hurdles. His latest achievement was winning fifth place inThe high
hurdles in the Southern Conference meet held in Durham last week. Kellam has also been a regular on the 'Cat
nine for the past two seasons as catcher. He is a member of the Pi Kappa Phi social fraternity and
a rising senior. At these same meetings, "Mazie" Hall was elected varsity baseball manager, and Tinga, freshman manager. Junior managers
will be Paul Cooper, Jim Thompson, and John Lattimer. Jack Malone was elected varsity track manager, and Charley won. Wally
Tonissen and Stewart Barnes played good golf to down Sandy Moffett and Willard Dixon.

Wicker, Kellam to Head Tracksters, Baseballers

KIT NINE DOWNED BY CENTRAL HIGH OUTFIT
Frosh Close Season With Record of Seven Victories And Four Defeats

The Wildkitten nine closed its baseball season last week by losing a hotly-contested tussle to the strong Central High School
team 6-1 in Charlotte. David McLean allowed the heavy-hitting Charlotte high team only six hits, the same number the Kittens
made, but the Central nine bunched their hits in crucial times to push over runs. Davidson scored its only run
in the fourth inning when Fitzgerald singled, stole second, and scored on a ground ball to the infield. With this
game, the Kittens closed a splendid season with seven victories to their credit. The leading hitter was Verner, who played
centerfield. Other outstanding players for the Kittens were Dunford, hard-hitting first baseman, Fitzgerald, stocky catcher, Hunter, fiery shortstop, and McLean
and Thomas, pitchers. Lafferty, freshman manager. Junior managers will be Ovid Bell, Scotty Raynal, and Addison Long.

You Choose Both Ways, Every Time

WHEN a Davidson man comes into Charlotte he always knows that there are fellow-Davidsonians around. He'll choose between The Tavern
and the Main Dining Room at dinner time. If he's with a bunch of fellows, it'll probably be The Tavern,
and if his lady is dining with him, it'll be the Main Dining Room. You'd be surprised, really, to observe
(as we do, right along) how many Davidson boys coming into Charlotte consider those alternatives the only ones worth choosing
between. They've learned their way around.

HOTEL CHARLOTTE

Frosh Tennis Team Ends Year With Two Victories

Schabel and Wood defeated Holsoyd and McClemments, 8-6, 6-0. The Davidson freshman tennis team rounded out its season by taking
two hard-fought matches on an extended tour last week. The strong Darlington prepsters fell before the freshmen by the score
of 4-3. Turner defeated Tenny 6-2, 5-7, 9-7. At number two, Hunter defeated Sproull, 6-3, 6-3. On Friday afternoon, the
Kitten netmen defeated a powerful Wofford team, 5-1. Results of this match follow: Tenney defeated Herbert, 2-6, 6-3, 6-1; Hunter
defeated Beall, 6-0, 6-4; Schabel defeated Dillinger 6-3, 21-19; Wood defeated Garrett, 6-3, 3-6, 6-3; Schabel defeated Bradley, 6-1, 6-2.
Holsoyd (Wofford) defeated Wood, 1-6, 8-6, 2-6; Hunter defeated Smith 6-1, 6-4. Tenney and Hunter defeated Sproull and Dillinger 4-6,
6-4, 6-3. In doubles, Tenney and Turner defeated Herbert and Garrett, 6-1, 6-3; Schabel and Wood lost to Smith and
Dillinger 6-3, 6-4.

CAT TRACKMEN TAKE SEVENTH IN CONFERENCE
Davidson Collects Seven Points Against Field of Stiff Opposition

DUKE WINS TOP HONORS
Morse Extended By Walker in Two Mile Run

Members of the Davidson track team chalked up a total of seven points to place seventh in the Southern Conference
meet held in Durham, N.C., last Saturday. Walker took off first honors among the Wildcats with three points. Sample accounted
for two more, and Fort and Wicker took one point each. After a challenge to Morse of Duke on the
last lap of the two-mile run, Walker finished third. The plucky Davidson runner fought all the way, and Morse was
forced to dig in to keep ahead. Sample and Brown barely failed to place, coming in sixth. Fort placed fourth
and fifth respectively in the pole vault. Both cleared twelve feet, but Sample reached 11 feet nine inches on his
first jump and Fort on his second. After qualifying in the 220-yard high hurdles, Wicker crossed the line in fifth
place for the 'Cats in the finals. Parcell and Woodward of Davidson qualified in the tryouts of the mile run
on Friday but failed to place in the final competition, as did J.D. Johnston and Swede Johnson in the javelin
throw. Duke's well-balanced team doubled the score on its nearest opponents to win the meet with 78 points. The University
of North Carolina placed second with 39 1-2, V.M.I. marked up 25 to take third, and Maryland came in fourth
with 22. Other scores were: Washington and Lee 11, V.P.I. 9, Richmond 8, Furman 7, Davidson 7, William and Mary
7, South Carolina 6, Clemson 4 1-2, and N.C. State 1. Two contestants from The Citadel failed to place, and
Wake Forest did not make any entries. Bill Morse of Duke and Merrill (Continued on Page 6)

Congratulations Davidson College On its Centennial Celebration

Automatic machines fill sterilized bottles and seal them airtight. Nothing you eat or drink is more carefully protected. Buy Coca-Cola
in the convenient 6-box from your dealer. ICE-COLD COCA-COLA IS EVERY PLACE ELSE, IT BELONGS IN YOUR ICE-BOX AT HOME.
