Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, MARCH 24, 1937

The Davidsonian — Founded By the Class of 1915

1936 Member 1937 Associated Collegiate Press Distributors of Collegiate Digest

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson” Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY National Advertising Service, Inc. College Publishers Representative 420 MADISON AVE. New York, N.Y. CHICAGO -
BOSTON - SAN FRANCISCO LOS ANGELES - PORTLAND - SEATTLE

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879.

Editor JIM MORTON R. H. ROBINSON - Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF Managing Editor Owen Cooke Managing Editor Sam Cothran Managing Editor Euclid Fant Managing Editor Hector McGeachy Managing Editor
Dick Vowles Associate Editor Yates Faison Associate Editor Harry Kuykendall Art Editor Howell Overton Copy Reader Harold Sugg Daymond Tufts
John Winn Sam Ryburn Fitz Dade

BUSINESS STAFF Wilson Lowrance - Circulation Manager Ralph Chandler - Circulation Manager Charles Moore - Collection Manager Advertising Manager J.
Hill - Business Manager

We must not make a scarecrow of the law, Setting it up to fear the birds of prey, And let
it keep one shape, till custom make it Their perch and not their terror.—Shakespeare.

SPRING HOLIDAYS ET CETERA... Spring is here with a few days of rest. Fims and frills will fill the time
with gladness and sadness.

RUMORS... Of all grapevine systems, our campus has the paramount. If somebody said Henry Ford awarded Joe Doe a million
dollars for discovering air, you can bet your life 100 per cent of the Student Body would know it. And
the worst part of the whole matter is that rumors rarely record reality. Some imaginative individual initiates a whisper and
it literally covers the campus. Woe be unto ye scribes and Pharisees, rumorites and liars... (Modern version).

NON-DECISION DEBATES... This year’s debating team does not participate in a single argument where anybody wins. Confidentially, it seems futile
to argue for a couple of hours and end up as they do in “the ladies’ sewing circle,” nobody winning.

LAMENTATION... A few days back one of the better-known daily papers in this section carried an editorial lamenting the fact
that the late editor of “The New York Times” passed away without anyone knowing who he was, what he did,
or when he died. What’s so sad about the maker of names not making a name for himself? Observe the
faces and names that appear in public places and you see often-times a tribe just out of Sing Sing, or
who should be chief cook in one of the Sing Sing kitchens. Justify yourself to God first, then yourself, lastly
your fellowman.

JOURNALISTIC DEPARTMENT... A last fling and then the dying ember’s once brilliant light fades. The ember which consisted in the
worthy idea of having a journalistic course in our curriculum. Perhaps the idea will glow again with the greater Davidson
of 1987.

ELEVATORS AND DUMMY WAITERS... Prediction number one: Elevators were installed in New Chambers March 24, 2000. The money was donated
by a Davidson graduate, who is one of the pillars of the Republican set. These self-operated elevators are expected to
ease the wear and tear on the students attending classes on the tenth floor. Prediction number two and three... Co-eds
now receive refreshments on their desks by dummy waiters and dumb waiters. A good time is had by all as
the professor addresses his class through his dictaphone.

QUARTER SYSTEM... Culled from the Scripts ’n Pranks is the statistical data revealing that 293 students prefer the quarter system
while only 132 voted to retain the semester system. This preferred change of a conservative student body should carry considerable
weight in swinging our work along more modern lines.

SCRIPTS ’N PRANKS... Our college magazine, under the direction of ye editor Hal Overton, set a new high for excellence.
And they promise a Centennial issue “twice the regular size” with lots of life and spice.

WASTED... Back of dormitory row, you see two weedy lots which could be developed into excellent playgrounds for intramural sports.
If this ground was leveled over and cleared, we would not use the field on the north end of Chambers
building. This improvement would permit the struggling grass to grow in profusion at our present playground, thus replacing the red
sod with a rolling green. The new field would be larger and the equipment for different sports would not have
to be moved with the coming of another game.

REPTILES GALORE... We call ’em snakes, and so they be. They date your best girl, and for love or nothing
else to do, they will stay up any old night, eat your food, and leave you in the lurch.

FRATERNALISM... The idea suggested by Harold Sugg of fraternities visiting each other about once a week for an exchange of
meals isn’t bad and several groups are practicing what he preached.

WHOOPEE... How does the idea of having a group of girls up for a great big Davidson party appeal to
you? You know, sort of a get-together, with a baseball game in the afternoon for entertainment, followed by a dash
of a Red and Black Masquers play. This idea did not originate with us, so maybe it will develop into
reality.

Campus Comments Davidson College is one of a very few colleges which has no college-controlled dining hall or cafeteria. When
we came here it was our impression that the competition among local boarding houses kept the fare good and the
cost low, but it has been our experience that on the whole the statement is not true. At some boarding
houses the fare is good and at others the cost is low; the two do not go together. The college
has no control over local boarding houses; they have no kind of supervision or inspection. We eat what is given
us, hope it is a well-balanced meal, and trust that it is clean. Some of the boarding houses are convenient
to the campus, others are very inconvenient, especially when it is raining or snowing. On the other hand, there may
be a good many families who support themselves in whole or in part by running boarding houses. These people would
be seriously inconvenienced if the college opened its own dining hall and required all students to eat there. Then, too,
there might be a tendency to make the dining hall show a profit at the expense of the quality, variety,
or quantity of the food. More than one college has staged a strike against the food of the dining hall,
but if it were patterned after those at Swarthmore or Rollins it should be entirely satisfactory. It is quite possible
for the college to use the banquet hall in Chambers for a dining hall. It would not hold us all
at one time, perhaps, but is that necessary? Breakfast could be served from 7:30 to 9:30, lunch from 11:00 to
2:00, and dinner from 6:00 to 8:00. By having meals served over several hours the entire student body could be
accommodated easily. No one of us likes to jump and run to a meal when a bell rings, anyway. We
would suggest that instead of stopping all classes at 12:30 for lunch they continue straight through until 2:00. At whatever
time a student had a vacant period between 11:00 and 2:00 he could eat his lunch. Detailed plans would, of
course, have to be worked out by the faculty, and, let us hope, with some suggestions from the students. Another
improvement in this connection would concern announcements. In the dining hall all announcements could be posted or read so as
to be available to all, thus freeing our chapel service from the noise and confusion which follows that brief religious
service and which is so sharply in contrast with it. There should be no objection to a change which will
bring us better food and well-balanced meals at reasonable prices. If there is to be any effort to make money
out of the scheme, we are solidly opposed to it, but if properly done we are heartily in favor of
it. —ROBERT B. STEWART. P. S.—I request C. C. Quick, Captain Baseball and Basketball, to write the next Campus Comments.

CAMPUS CAMERA BUCKSHOT THE SENIOR WALK AT THE UNIVERSITY OF ARKANSAS HAS THE NAMES OF ALL GRADUATES (OVER 4000) ENGRAVED
ON IT!

ALTHOUGH HE HAS BEEN BLIND SINCE EARLY BOYHOOD, IS THE SUCCESSFUL BAND DIRECTOR AT HAVERFORD COLLEGE!

BUTLER IN THE LAMBDA CHI HOUSE AT ALABAMA HAS NAMED THREE OF HIS OFFSPRING LAMBDA, CHI, AND ALPHA!

By AL CADE A couple of boutonnieres to the Junior Class in general and the Dance Committee in particular for
a really elegant week-end. Music by Mellen exceeded advance notices and the women were delovely. Custom tailored masks were provided
for the Nose Club but even then Prexy Snoz Hill went bare-faced so someone put the quietus on him with
this quip: “Take off that false face. We know you.” And Bowery Ball comes next. In case you haven't heard,
the Hudson-DeLange Orch. with its flowing, insinuating swingcopation would be the best possible bet. Hudson-DeLange for Bowery Ball. Chivy Chivy...
Chug-a-Lug the theme song of the week-end. The girl with the Empire coiffure mug-nutty over Armfield in Tavern Friday night.
Harry, Hannah, and Slocomb to formal wedding between dances Saturday and groomsmen Professor Lilly and Yentz (Most Bow-legged Man on
the Campus) Johnston very swank. Norfleet and date to breakfast in tails and evening gown. Bell Telephone dividend declaring a
thanks to Bob Downie. Ken Lawson casting pearls before swine. Pan-Hell’s consolation party on third floor. Swifty Ryburn’s unique proposition
on bus back and a thousand bucks in the hand, almost. Fourth floor East gone zany. Angel-Puss Faison locked by
Yale. Booby Arrowsmith’s sleepy-time girl. Loon-Laff Dixon. Short story: Ovid Bell—Ruth—Goof—but no double X. Pathos: Happy James and Jane Randolph
skilled surgeons. Kismet. Gibb Smith’s date’s measles were just freckles after all — no quarantine. Rev. Cooper and H. Lutz
couched on mezzanine for the evening. Bob Johnston and George Norfleet slug-nutty over Listerine, but Wilson was the lister. Baron
Russel Patterson the sleepy type Saturday evening. Jim Gailey’s cheek-chucking brought to abrupt end. And who was the Sir Walter
on the golf course Sunday afternoon? J. C. in traffic jam in church Sunday morning. And who was the gent
standing asleep in third floor?Hall with “Don’t Disturb” sign hanging from mouth? Tripod Latimer says the dances were stagnated, but
we think cutting in is a Good Thing at college dances. Ask Gildersleeve about Mickey. Jack Branch, Mary K., Salty
Peters — three on a match. Jack Tillotson’s cotton-picking auto. Foxy Tonnison did find that note from Sweet Briar. Breeden,
McClelland, and Lillard’s search ended with Frances. Hal Overton in a brown study and no Rading. “Pete” McKnight has catholic
tastes. Charlie Brown heard the call of the wild. And Bloke Gilliam met old friends. Sam Webb woke up the
morning after with ebony eye. Rea Tenney and Tom Crichton squaring the circle. Wilhelmenia Monroe is the Phi Gam’s problem
child. And Sugg got in a Rut over this date situation. Watson Street is still angling for that canoe date.
Q-Ball has reached the age of consent but is not too old for baseball. What well-known Phi Delt will two-step
to Mendelssohn after graduation? And what prominent campus leader had to dash to Mooresville for a depleted supply of brilliantine?
More Triviana. Hoxie had a sudden attack of amnesia. Who was Gypsy-Moore’s truckin’ partner? And where was Pitt? Hugo (Most
Appropriately Named Man) Sapp wants to know why shrimp cocktail was such a popular alibi over the weekend. And Tom
Abbot's children’s hour at movies Saturday night. Tricky Dave pledged by Salvation Army after the dansant. Why to the roadhouse
for Sunday night dopes? —sweets for the sweet? Did you hear the local soda emporium broadcasting Friday afternoon? Charlie Pegram
was definitely misunderstood Sat. night. Sunny Moore listed as third in discus for Catawba in track meet finals. John Tinga’s
goldfish succumbed to alchemy. And Dick LaRoque has twin goldfish named Sin and Tell? S. P. E.'s house party Sat.
night was reptile heaven. Fred Dennis date-shuffling for the figure. Wade Barrow and rib watched the party from the outside.
And Jack Lee’s wild elevator ride. Colonel Lipfert and Bubby Branton persuaded their singing was discordant in the Tavern. Bob
Anders choice snake material. Jim Dorsett puzzled. And Countess Tolstoy was a very interesting and amusing speaker. Take it away,
Eight-Ball, we’re right behind you. P.S.—Dear Boys: Please whip around a little Spring Holidays and come back and tell us
about it. Yours, NOZY.

FRATERNITY INITIATES MISS COMNOCK

Helen Miss Comnock, of Davidson, was tapped by Kappa Gamma, national honorary leadership fraternity of Queens-Chicora College, at its annual
spring tapping service. Miss Comnock was the only member of the Sophomore class to be honored by the fraternity. She
is president of the sophomore class and has been very outstanding in all campus activity for the past two years.
Other members initiated into Alpha Kappa Gamma at the same meeting were Miss Elizabeth Maynard, of Timmonsville, S.C.; Miss John
Wright of Charlotte; Miss Elizabeth Calder of Charlotte; Miss Lillian Smith of Greer, S.C.; and Miss Louise Crane, of Africa.
Active members include Misses Mary Wilson, Mary Currie, Thornburn Lillard, Martha Petteway, Louise Thompson, Adeline Kilgore, Frances Query, Elsie Setzer,
Eleanor Carr, Jean Orr, Frances Smith, Nancy McIver, and Jimmy Wagoner.

Any kind of lice one would shun can be found in the “lousiest place in the world,” the museum of
natural history at Stanford University, which houses the 220 different species in the collection of Gordon Ferris, associate professor of
biology.

Stolen Thunder
By DAYMOND TURNER

Thought of the Week ... A sensible girl is not so sensible as she looks because a sensible girl has
more sense than to look sensible ... First one takes a sippi, then another sippi and the first one to
mississippi is a sissy.

Gone... When I asked her to wed “Go to father,” she said. She knew that I knew that her father
was dead. She knew that I knew what a life he had led. She knew that I knew what she
meant when she said, “Go to father!” —Lampoon.

Chaff ... An honorary degree is one conferred on a man who has proved he can win without it... Femmes
at Augustana, S.D., sell mimeographed “reputations” of fellows as doped out in their date-hashing sessions ... Marrying a man to
reform him is like drinking liquor to destroy it ... Northwestern University students must hand in their pictures with themes
so the professors will know whose work they are grading.

Hot Number ... The boy and girl stood on the deck. The girl her arms around his neck. The boy
was burning, not the deck.

Which Reminds Us... That a necker-chief must be the president of a sorority ... There is the boy with a
thirst for knowledge — the knowledge inherited from his mother, the thirst from his father ... If a man swallows
a girl’s line, he'll probably have to cough up ... The cannibal’s daughter likes her boyfriends best when they are
a little stewed.

Catch... ? What do you sell? Salt. I’m a salt seller too. Shake!

Did You Know ... That bigamy is a case of two rites making a wrong? ... If at first you
don’t succeed, try, try again; but not on the same girl ... College viewpoint: It’s not the girl that counts,
but what she stands for ... Many a hiccough is a message from departed spirits!

To Date... Mary had a little swing that wasn’t hard to find. The swing was just behind everywhere that Mary
went.

Collegiate Comebacks ... She was only a co-ed journalist, but oh, how she could make-up! ... Four out of every
five women-haters are women ... You can never tell about women, and if you can, you shouldn't ... Two heads
are better than one — when on the same shoulder ... Having your face lifted in the moonlight is generally
a pleasant operation ... Love makes the world go round — looking for a place to park ... Women generally
speaking are generally speaking.

Little Joe... Little Joseph, not so big, made some pants of Papa's wig. Mama cried, “Now that’s not fair. You're
getting in your Papa's hair!”

Remember ... Politeness is like an air cushion; there may be nothing in it, but it eases the jolts of
life ... Many a man thinks his character has been defamed when it has only been defined ... When the
right kind of a man gets into a hole, he often turns it into an opening ... A widow is
the luckiest woman in the world. She knows all about men and all men who know anything about her are
dead.

In the Bucket... ? A young man made an airplane. He was a silly wop. He called it Maxwell because
it’s good to the very last drop.

House

In working for his education, Henry George Dihlmann, a Massachusetts State College student, has been a bell-hop, a truck driver,
butcher, farmhand, and post office helper. Now he has been elected selectman of Schutesbury and is continuing his schooling.

SHELL N Codi Fant

Once again has the Junior Class spoken, and the speaking was a wow. Friday night’s mask ball was the event
of the season. With its vari-colored balloons, serpentine, masks, and girls (not vari-colored) set a new high in colorful events
— or so they tell me. I couldn’t see through my mask myself. But from intermission on through the weekend
everybody saw, heard, and did a lot. Little mention has been made of the dance committee itself, most of the
credit being misdirected at the class as a whole. So here let us doff our masks to the boys who
did the work. Nice going!

Mellen’s Melodeers showed the Doubting Thomases a thing or three and were especially good with their imitations of other leading
bands. The ballroom was a bit crowded, it’s true, but if sardines can take it, why can’t we? The green
lights gave everybody the GO signal, and everybody WENT to town in high. Now that we've all come back to
school in low, though, we can look forward to the holidays, and beyond them to the Bowery Brawl. So it
looks like a good spring.

Speaking of spring, this is one year the weather and the calendar ran together. Saturday night was the official last
hour of winter, and Sunday gave the new season a break by breaking all tradition and providing a burst of
sun. Which put a new spring in everybody’s walk, by the way. Now let's see it last through the holidays.

Scripts and Pranks blossomed forth on the hill in springtime garb last week, for the first time in its history
on schedule. From the bird on the front (probably symbolical of the bird it expected to receive from its readers)
to the Camel ad on the back, it lived up to its reputation. (You can take that any way you
want to). Incidentally, the campus poll was one of the most interesting features our magazine has ever had; looks like
our poor Freshmen get corrupted during their four-year stay. But don’t take that too seriously. Maybe they only learn to
tell the truth about their habits.

The new Davidson catalog, mentioned here before, reveals, on further examination, that the Treasurer wasn't fooling about that damage fee
proposition he made to the students some weeks ago. No mention is made of any charge for it. This is
something that should make every Davidson man swell just a bit with pride. Despite past lapses on our part, the
administration has been willing to accept our word on a matter where our breaking that word would cost them a
good many dollars. As the College President recently observed, “You can depend on the students to do the right thing
nine times out of ten if they take time to think it over.”

While we're in a somewhat serious vein, it is not out of place to mention the recent Spring Services. It
is a far-sighted group that secures young men exclusively for the services we have on the hill each spring and
fall. While the older speakers may have the same message, they certainly do not have the same receptive audience that
greets a younger man. Maybe it’s because the more recent his own student days, the less attention a speaker expects.
The less you expect from anything, the more you are likely to get. I know. I expected good grades on
my reviews — and look what I got!

Here’s one I promised I’d put in, so here it is: The English professor said, “and now we will proceed
to a study of syntax.” “My gosh,” piped the freshman in the back row, “have they started taxing that too?”
And with your laughter ringing in my ears, I will bid you a cheery holiday. And don’t worry; they haven't
really started taxing it.
