DICK VOWLES TO BE EDITOR OF COLLEGE WEEKLY NEXT YEAR

ALENDA . LUX UBI. ORTA

The Davidsonian

LIBERTAS

REMEMBER PAGEANT TRYOUTS IN EU HALL THURSDAY AFTERNOON

VOL. XXIV DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., APRIL 7, 1937 NO. 23

DR. THOMAS LINGLE DIES IN CHARLOTTE

Beloved Professor Succumbs To Sudden Heart Attack On March 26

IMPRESSIVE RITES HELD

Dr. C. M. Richards Gives Beautiful Eulogy

Dr. Thomas Wilson Lingle, 65, professor of Davidson College for 30 years, died suddenly of a heart attack late Friday afternoon, March 26, in a Charlotte hospital. Funeral services were held in the Davidson Presbyterian Church, Sunday, March 28, at 4:30 o’clock. Dr. Lingle was in Charlotte on a business trip Friday afternoon, and feeling a slight heart attack, he visited a physician. He was immediately carried to the hospital, but a second attack snuffed out his life in a few minutes. Funeral rites were conducted by Dr. H. M. Moffett, assisted by Dr. C. M. Richards. Burial took place in the Davidson cemetery. Active pallbearers were H. L. Lilly, F. W. Johnston, W. P. Cumming, J. C. Bailey, P. H. Gwynn, H. E. Fletcher, A. H. Whittle, and W. N. Mebane. Members of the Davidson College graduating class of 1893, Dr. Lingle’s class, and faculty members of the college served as honorary pallbearers.

In his eulogy to Dr. Lingle, Dr. Richards briefly reviewed the beloved professor's life. He spoke of five things to which Dr. Lingle unselfishly devoted his life: Family, education, community, Davidson College, and the church. Dr. Lingle is survived by his widow, two children, Mrs. Robert C. Garth and Eustace E. Lingle, both of New York City; two brothers, Dr. Walter L. Lingle, president of Davidson College, and Dr. William H. Lingle, of Pasadena, Calif.; and four grandchildren. Dr. Lingle was born December 11, 1871, a son of the late Wilson Alexander Lingle and Mrs. Martha Jane Lynch Lingle, who lived near China Grove in Rowan County. He attended Davidson College and was graduated in 1893 with an A. B. degree. He went on to take graduate work at Cornell, Strasburg, and (Continued on Page 5)

FLEAGLE GIVES DATES FOR SUMMER SESSION

Second Music School-Camp Will Be Held By Prof. Pfohl

The 1937 summer session of Davidson College, according to Prof. F. K. Fleagle, director, will open on June 14 and continue six weeks, closing July 23. The courses have been selected so as to afford an opportunity to any student at any stage of his college course to advance his standing by taking the summer course. The following courses will be offered: Bible 21-22, Biology 31 and 32, Chemistry 31 and 32, Economics, Education, English 21-22, French 21-22, or French 31-32, Geography 21 and 22, Mathematics 11-12, Physics 21-22, Political Science 31 and 32, General Principles of Law, and any other course which is desired by six or more students. Prof. Fleagle announced that those students who wished to take summer work should sign up for their courses with Mr. Hengeveld when they register for their next year’s work.

Along with the regular summer session, for the second time in the history of Davidson College, there will be a Davidson College Music School-Camp under the direction of Prof. James C. Pfohl. The following courses will be offered: Applied Music, Musical Theory, Harmony, Orchestration, Band Arranging, Orchestra and Band Management, Church Music, Conducting, Public School Music, and History and Appreciation of Music. Application blanks for admittance to the music school may now be secured through Prof. F. K. Fleagle or Prof. James C. Pfohl.

DR. T. W. LINGLE

Beloved senior member of the Davidson faculty, Dr. Thos. W. Lingle, died in a Charlotte hospital March 26, as the result of a heart attack.

CURRIE SPEAKS TO GRADUATES

Professor Talks to Alumni in New York, Washington, and Richmond

Professor Archibald Currie of the Davidson faculty returned Saturday morning from a trip north, during which he spoke to gatherings of the college alumni in Richmond, New York, and Washington. On Monday night, during Easter holidays, he addressed the alumni chapter of Richmond. He had with him motion pictures of several of Davidson’s football games of last season and showed them to his audience, to their evident enjoyment. The annual election of officers for the chapter was held at this time. In New York the following night Professor Currie spoke again and selection of officers for this group was also made, Captain Mullen being re-elected president. The meeting in Washington was originally planned for Wednesday, but was postponed until Saturday, when Professor Currie attended. (Continued from Page 5)

Deputation

A new deputation will be sent out to the Mecklenburg Sanatorium by the Ministerial Band, beginning next Sunday. Heretofore hospital authorities have permitted Y. M. C. A. representatives to teach the Sunday School lesson in only one wing of the building. Regular teachers this year have included T. B. Anderson, J. A. Mawhinney, Gordon Riggan, T. E. Walker, S. C. Webb, Locke White, and W. M. Wicker. The new men have not yet been selected.

VIEHMAN DISCLOSES PAGEANT PLANS TO STUDENT ASSEMBLY

Main Feature of Centennial to Be Staged on Richardson Field, June 7

750 PLAYERS IN CAST

Tryouts Thursday in Eu Hall For Speaking Parts

Mr. Theodore Viehman, in a called meeting of the Senior Class and of all interested students, disclosed the concrete plans for Davidson’s Centennial Pageant. Its organization and its actual text were made public for the first time Monday night in Chambers Auditorium. The pageant will be staged on Richardson Field on Monday, June 7, with a cast of some 750 characters, including 100 speaking parts. No student will be compelled to remain for this pageant but Mr. Viehman emphasized the point that nobody but the students of Davidson College can make this pageant a success. Thursday afternoon at 3:05 o'clock in the Eumenean Literary Society Hall Mr. Viehman and Professor Erwin will hold tryouts for 100 speaking parts for the production. All who are interested are urged to come and try. Everyone who comes will be heard and a loud voice is not necessary. A great stage is to be erected at the north end of Richardson Field and will contain four interior stages such that the presentation of the pageant may be presented with all possible dispatch. There will be a separate lighting system for each stage and the actual field which will be used at times. Six microphones will be used to carry every spoken word in the show to huge amplifiers. Preparations are being made to accommodate at least 10,000 spectators at this performance. Twelve episodes and a masque will compose the pageant. Each episode will consist of several different scenes which (Continued on Page 6)

Scholarship Offered To Davidson Seniors

Dr. G. R. Vowles, head of the German department, has requested that all applicants for the scholarships offered Davidson men by the University of Heidelberg apply in writing to him some time in the near future. Open to seniors or graduates is a scholarship for tuition for the school year, 1937-38. Men who have studied German will be given preference in this selection. According to Dr. Vowles, expenses for a student with this scholarship would amount to just about the same as those for one here. All students are eligible for three scholarships for tuition during the summer session. The university makes special arrangements to the end that this short stay in Germany may be of real benefit to the student.

Hill and Mauze Complete Debates On Western Trip

Haywood Hill and Charles Mauze completed the western debating trip in which they represented Davidson College at three Southern colleges on March 20th. On this trip they met the University of the South, Centre College, and the University of Kentucky. All of them were non-decision debates, and in each case Davidson upheld the affirmative of the question, “Resolved, that Congress should have the right to fix minimum wages, and maximum hours for industry.” The debaters left Davidson on the afternoon of March 10th, going to Asheville, N. C., for the night. Then they continued by way of Knoxville and Chattanooga to Sewanee, Tenn., where they met the University of the South. They met Centre College on Monday, March 15th, in Danville, Ky., and then proceeded to Lexington for the final debate with the University of Kentucky, held on March 17th. Although their opponents were all from brother colleges of Tennessee or Kentucky, the audiences varied somewhat in each case. At the University of the South it was composed principally of interested students of the college. But at Centre College they debated before the Women’s Division, and at the University of Kentucky it was before a high school audience mainly. Charlie Mauze is a member of the senior class, treasurer of the Forensic Council, manager of freshman debating, and a member of Alpha Phi Epsilon, honorary forensic fraternity. Haywood Hill is a junior, and is treasurer of Alpha Phi Epsilon, in addition to several other honors held in other fields of campus activity.

JACKSON MADE NATIONAL HEAD OF ODK

Treasurer Chosen President of Honorary Frat at Atlanta Meeting

ELECTION IS UNANIMOUS

Dr. Vowles, Edwards, Branch Also Present

Frank L. Jackson, treasurer of Davidson College was elected without opposition national president of Omicron Delta Kappa, national honorary leadership fraternity at the recent convention of that society. Mr. Jackson had served as vice-president of the organization for the past two years. The convention was held in Atlanta and was in session April 1st through April 3rd. The convention headquarters were located in the Atlanta Biltmore Hotel, with events taking place on the Emory and Georgia Tech campuses. Mr. Jackson and Dr. G. R. Vowles of the faculty and Wilbur Edwards and Jack Branch of the student body represented Davidson. One hundred and ninety-one from forty-two circles in fifteen states attended. The first day of the convention was devoted to registration and various forms of recreation as the members of the fraternity arrived. A smoker was held during the evening at which time Dr. S. V. Sanford extended greetings to the visitors in behalf of the Georgia circles. The address was made by the national president, Dr. Guy E. Snavely, of Birmingham-Southern College. On Thursday night Dr. GeorgeLand of philosophy of the University of Alabama, delivered a striking address to the assembly. There was not a great deal of work for the convention to attend to. Province deputies, who represent their provinces, made their reports as did representatives of each circle, or chapter. A committee headed by Mr. Jackson was appointed to revise the ritual. The subjects of the laws and policies, publications, and the financial status of the organization were discussed. Wilbur Edwards was appointed on the committee, Jack Branch was appointed on the finance committee, and Davidson faculty was appointed on the publication committee. The second day, April 2, was the opening business session of the convention. (Continued on Page 6)

GRANT WON BY PROF. CUMMING
Research Council Awards Aid For His Study in Early History

The Social Science Research Council has awarded a grant to Professor W. P. Cumming of the Department of English, Davidson College, to aid the completion of his work on the history of early settlements in North Carolina and on early maps of the southeastern section of the United States. Professor Cumming has made discoveries of manuscript material in northern libraries which throw new light on early explorers and settlers of this region. He believes that the first permanent settlement was made near the mouth of the Roanoke River about 1657. Most of his information has been found in writings on old maps and in the original land grants. He is expecting to compile a complete list of all early maps of the southeastern part of the United States which are in the possession of libraries in this country. The Grants-in-aid of the Social Science Research Council are given to mature scholars, whose capacity for productive research has been demonstrated by published work. 

DR. FRANK CALDWELL ADDRESSES COLLEGE AT VESPER SERVICE
Is President of the Louisville Presbyterian Seminary in Kentucky

NEW COMER TO COLLEGE
Sermon Is on Christ and Tottering Worlds

Christ and a Tottering World was the text which Dr. Frank H. Caldwell, President of the Louisville Presbyterian Seminary, Louisville, Ky., used in the regular Sunday evening vesper services. For the scripture lesson Dr. Caldwell read the first seventeen verses of the first chapter of Colossians, and he placed special emphasis on the latter part of the verse: In Him all things consist, which Dr. Caldwell stated means, In Him all things hold together. In opening his sermon Dr. Caldwell stated that before the great crash suicide was a rare thing; however, in the last few years it has become a great tragedy, and he stated that we should not pass judgment but understand that each case of suicide has its peculiar causes. He stated that suicide was caused when some phase of an individual's life has tottered and fallen under the spell of a private crisis. This, he stated, is not a crisis for college men, when their world of dreams no longer holds but shatters. Soldiers of the World War thought that they were in Flanders to make the world safe for Democracy, but instead, they made the world safe for Autocracy of Dictatorship and scattered the seeds for future wars. Dr. Caldwell stated that cases of tottering worlds may result in suicide but that some individuals find enough strength to build their hopes again. He stated that there are three undesirable ways to react to these crises, which he brought up in his sermon. (Continued on Page 6)

Hengeveld Announces Date of Registration

Registration for courses for the 1937-38 session of Davidson College will begin on the 19th of April and continue through the 24th, according to an announcement issued by Mr. F.W. Hengeveld, Registrar of the college. During this registration period, all members of the freshman, sophomore, and junior classes will be required to sign up for the courses they wish to take next year. Mr. Hengeveld also stated that a tentative schedule for next year’s classes will be published within the next week. The registrar also stated that it is imperative that all freshmen consult with their faculty advisers about which courses they should take before registering.

VOWLES CHOSEN AS NEXT EDITOR OF DAVIDSONIAN

NEW EDITOR
Dick Vowles, newly elected editor of the Davidsonian for 1937-38. He defeated Hector McGeachy in a run-off last Saturday morning.

TWO FIRES AT ONE TIME BURN HOMES OF LOCAL FAMILIES
Smith’s Boarding House and Morgan Home Destroyed Last Week

IS PARTIALLY INSURED
Citizens and Students Aid in Saving Furniture

The residence of Mr. L. R. Smith, located on Concord Road opposite the Martin Chemical Laboratory, was destroyed by fire Wednesday afternoon, March 31. By a strange turn of fate, the Morgan home in the Davidson milling section burned to the ground the same afternoon. The Morgan home caught on fire around three o'clock, and while the local firemen were fighting the blaze, the alarm was turned in for the fire at the Smith residence. The firemen quickly responded to the second alarm as there was no hope of saving the first house at this time. By the time the fire fighting equipment had reached the Smith house, flames were leaping from the roof, and the firemen, realizing they could not combat the flames with the equipment at hand, summoned the Mooresville Fire Department. Through the combined efforts of the two departments, along with the aid of local citizens and college students, three streams of water were directed on the blaze, and the fire was confined to the one building. The fire is thought to have (Continued on Page 6)

“The First Commandment,” a Biblical drama, under the sponsorship of the Methodist Church of Davidson and the direction of Miss Corinne Palmer, went into production this week using a cast composed of only local talent. Saturday morning Miss Palmer asked the students of the college to work with her in this production and to accept roles in the play. Some forty boys were named to take part in the production and began to rehearse Monday night. Rehearsals will last all week. This drama is the enactment of many of the familiar stories of the Old Testament. It is to be complete with costumes and properties which are to be furnished by the American Educational Company of Fairfield, Iowa, and New York City who have been engaged to produce the play. The cast will include some sixty persons all from Davidson or the college. “The First Commandment” will be presented on Tuesday and Wednesday nights, April 13 and 14, either in Chambers Auditorium or the High School Auditorium. The Davidson College Glee Club will furnish special and incidental music to accompany the drama. The stories of Joseph and Moses and many familiar Biblical heroes are to be enacted in the play. The whole performance will be one hour and twenty minutes in length. Miss Palmer is a native of Pontotoc, Miss. and a recent graduate of the University of Mississippi.

Bell, Calvin, Coghill, Marquess, Porter, Sloan Are Selected
McGEACHY IS SECOND
Defeated Nominees to Be Associate Editors

Richard “Dick” Vowles was elected editor of The Davidsonian for the coming college year on last Saturday morning, April 3. Vowles won on the second ballot, receiving 222 votes while Hector McGeachy, his opponent, received 143. Monday night, following the editor’s election, the following managing editors were selected: Ovid Bell, Joe Calvin, Wesley Coghill, Terrell Porter, Perry Sloan, and Bill Marquess, sports editor. These men were selected from a group of sophomores who have worked on The Davidsonian for the past two years. Six men were nominated for the editorship, all of whom, except McGeachy, were eliminated in the initial voting which took place during the chapel period on Friday. The men nominated for the office were as follows: Sam Cothran, Euclid Cooke, Fant, Yates, Richard Vowles, and Hector McGeachy. All of these men have served as managing editors of The Davidsonian for the past year. In the first ballot, Vowles received 162 votes and McGeachy received 75. All of the nominees who were defeated in the election automatically become the new associate editors of the paper. Vowles will assume his editorial duties with the next edition of the publication. “Dick” Vowles, the son of Dr. G. R. Vowles, of the college's faculty, is a member of Sigma Phi Epsilon, social fraternity. He is also a member of Sigma Upsilon, literary fraternity, Alpha Epsilon Delta, pre-med fraternity, and sports editor of the annual. Bell and Marquess are members of Phi Delta Theta, social fraternity; Calvin, of Kappa Alpha; Coghill and Porter, of Sigma Phi Epsilon; and Sloan, of Sigma Alpha Epsilon.

COLLEGE WHO'S WHO FOR 1937 PUBLISHED
Eight Men of Centennial Class At Davidson Achieve Coveted Honor

The 1937 edition of Who's Who Among Students in American Universities and Colleges has been published and it appears the names of eight members of the senior class here at Davidson. The students whose names appear in this Who's Who are Wade Armfield, Bob Branch, Ed Boggs, Jack Dickson, Wilbur Edwards, Jim Johnston, Hal Morton, and Walt Overton. All of these men are outstanding in the centennial class, and their numerous activities and honors throughout college life are listed along with their vocations planned. This is the third volume of a publication which has passed through the stage of infancy and has emerged as an authoritative source of information invaluable not only to college officials, but also to all phases of industry and business. It is founded on the merits of 2,300 students representing 394 colleges and universities. H. Pettus Randall, the editor, states in the Foreword, “The selections were made in most instances only after careful consultation with local government officials and student administration. The nominations were approved by a dean or a member of the faculty. We believe that these young men and women, the college leaders of today, will be the nation’s leaders tomorrow.” In addition to the facts about (Continued on Page 5)