Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN. WEDNESDAY, MARCH 3, 1937

The Davidsonian — Founded By the Class of 1915

1936 Member 1937 Associated Collegiate Press
Distributors of Collegiate Digest

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON AVE. NEW YORK, N.Y.
CHICAGO - BOSTON - SAN FRANCISCO
LOS ANGELES - PORTLAND - SEATTLE

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879.

JIM MORTON .......... Editor
R. S. H. ROBINSON .... Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
Owen Cooke ............ Editor
Sam Cothran .... Managing Editor
Euclid Fant .... Managing Editor
Hector McGe .... Managing Editor
Dick Vowles .... Managing Editor
Yates Faison .... Sports Editor
Harry Kuykenc .... Associate Editor
Howell Overton .... Associate Editor
Harold Sugg .... Associate Editor
Daymond Turner .... Associate Editor
Tom A. Wilson .... Associate Editor
Sam Ryburn .... Art Editor
Fitz Dade .... Copy Reader
Wilson Lowrance .... Circulation Manager
Ralph Chandler .... Circulation Manager
Charles Moore .... Collection Manager
J. M. Hall .... Advertising Manager
Joe Johnson .... Assistant Business Manager

A man’s reputation is what his fellow men think of him. A man’s character is what God knows of him.
—Van Dyke.

KEEP DOWN “KEYHOUNDS!” ... Overorganization is one of the most frequent criticisms of modern life. Woodrow Wilson remarked some years
ago, that college “sideshow was crowding out the main tent” in our undergraduate world. Controversy has raged about extra-curricular activities
ever since. Today no one would deny the value of many of these enterprises. But even at Davidson, we have
some organizations that need badly to justify their existence. We refer to the so-called “honorary fraternities” which keep a greater
part of our student body running from meeting to meeting. We doubt not that all of these groups are founded
on high and worthy ideals and that time properly devoted to membership in any one of them would be well
worthwhile. Yet how many of them fulfill these ideals, are really active? How many hold the interest of their members
sufficiently to ensure attendance at meetings? How many make any worthwhile contribution to campus life as a whole? Is membership
in an honorary society coveted because it means something to the individual and the campus? Or does it mean merely
another key for the watch-chain? Do members attend meetings because they gain thereby? Or because they seek to impress the
faculty members by their attendance? Do we want self-improvement or a few more Greek letters after our name in the
annual? Some of these organizations justify their existence, making real contributions to student leadership and student thought. Others have to
prove themselves. As pointed out elsewhere in these columns, even the venerable Phi Beta Kappa, supposedly chosen from the best
heads of the campus, does little apparent work besides reading bids and offering an occasional banquet. It is high time
for either a revival or spring house cleaning. If the fraternity cannot be made of real value, we can find
better uses for our time and money.

“THANKS” ... “Thanks” and “thank you” are used by all employees of large business institutions — because it pays. It
pays for you to say “thanks” and “thank you” because it doesn’t cost a thing, and people will often assist
you for your uttering those greetings when money would be of no avail.

JUNIOR COLLEGE TOURNAMENT... Congratulations to the athletic heads of Davidson who made the Junior College Tournament possible. It represented considerable
work on their part, and the program was executed very efficiently.

SPORTS ON PARADE ... And the basketball season is over, because we lost the flip of the coin with Maryland
for the Southern Conference Tournament... Wrestling halted with the Monday night meet—so we now look to baseball, track, golf, and
tennis. With laments for our swimming team.

PHI BETA KAPPA ACTIVITIES ... Phi Beta Kappa is understood to be one of the leading honorary fraternities on this
campus, and it takes top place in national rating. Yet the “brains of the campus” do not take an active
part in sponsoring movements at Davidson. This venerable scholastic fraternity could encourage freshman scholarship, or some other activity, instead of
meeting twice a year for a banquet. Honor and usefulness would then be united.

Debators’ Need
A glaring deficiency at Davidson is the inadequacy of training in public speaking for the average Davidson student. In this
field, Davidson lags behind many Southern colleges and denies its students invaluable training and experience. There is little necessity of
enumerating the virtues of public speaking. Almost invariably it develops and vitalizes the poise and expressive personality of a man.
Perhaps its greatest gift is the feeling of confidence and accomplishment that it imparts to one who masters its art.
Nor does the power of forensic ability rest alone in public poise, but it enriches individual contacts by the clarity,
precision, and persuasion which it adds to the personality. Modern leaders in every field of activity extol the talent of
speaking forcefully and persuasively to others.

At present, public speaking enjoys an almost esoteric status on our campus. Only nine varsity debaters can profess to receive
adequate training in forensics. Literary societies provide a limited outlet for such ability, but at best this is occasional and
insufficient. Thus we are confronted with the problem of devising a plan whereby the average Davidson man will be able
to develop a skill in public speaking. The plan which we propose has this purpose as its key objective. We
feel certain that the college could inaugurate and successfully maintain a course in public speaking. This would not be a
text-book course; a capable man appointed by the Faculty Committee would instruct and advise as to the essentials of effective
public speaking and the class itself would devote part of its time to active criticism. Vital experience in actual speaking
would be gained by students, speaking before that body from time to time on various subjects. The fundamental aim is
to provide a course, open to all students, which would allow every Davidson man an equal opportunity to develop that
poise and confidence which results from speaking before men.

We, therefore, recommend that the Faculty Committee on Courses take action toward providing such a course. The possibility of assigning
a part-time professor to fill this position should be considered. It would be absolutely essential that the person selected to
serve in this capacity be a man with the personality and talent requisite for such instruction. The foregoing plan was
advocated and unanimously endorsed by Phi Epsilon at a recent meeting.

Ken McLeod, Editorial Com.
AND Jim Dorsett, of Alpha Phi Epsilon,

Campus Comments
Since the last two issues of Campus Comments have contained naught but peace and quiet, I rather feel it behooves
me to stir slightly the dying embers of protest before they sizzle out entirely. Protest number one is aimed at
the weekend on the campus. Outsiders cannot understand why our students desert the campus so often on weekends; the wonder
to me is that more of them do not desert it. Although it may rain all the rest of the
week, Sunday almost invariably turns out to be a clear, sunshiny day. Yet six hundred-odd energetic, lively boys are supposed
to read—but not study—stroll, or sleep. Is it any wonder that the students “take off,” usually doing themselves no good
and certainly placing an added burden, financially, on the elders back home? Would it not be much better for all
concerned to lower the bars and permit usage of the tennis courts and golf course, say between the hours of
one and five Sunday afternoons? Not even the most ardent opponent could call this harmless recreation a disturbance of the
peace.

Number two concerns the desire of the powers that be to prevent the student body or groups representing the college
from traveling on Sunday. The football team must leave Raleigh or Greenville immediately after the game in order not to
travel on Sunday, although we all know it will be Sunday before they reach Davidson; our holidays must invariably begin
in the middle of a week to avoid this bugaboo. Yet by the uninteresting prospect of a weekend on the
campus (see above), the very purpose of the measure is defeated, for Mr. Average Student leaves, then travels Sunday afternoon
to return in time for Vespers. Far be it from me to desire Davidson to be just another college, but
when much is gained and little lost by change, then to remain static is to stagnate.

Hoke Robinson.
P. S.—I request Ralph McClelland, Capt. “A” Company, to write the next Campus Comments.

CAMPUS CAMERA
WHEN IS A JUNIOR SENIOR A FRESHMAN?
WALTER SENIOR, JR. WHO IS ENROLLED AS A FRESHMAN AT THE UNIVERSITY OF NEW HAMPSHIRE ANSWERS THE QUESTION.

Copyright by Associated Collegiate Press—Madison, Wisconsin

WRIGHT IN 25 YEARS HAS CARRIED MORE THAN 709,000 STUDENTS AS PASSENGERS ON HIS BUS LINE GREENVILLE, TEXAS, TO FOUR
MILES BUTANT, HIS BUS HAS BEEN DRIVEN OVER 1,000,000 MILES WITHOUT AN ACCIDENT.

SWEEPING THE CAMPUS
By AL CADE

Junior Speakings the 19th and 20th, with Earl Mellen’s Orchestra grinding out sophisticated syncopation combining Hal Kemp’s staccato and Shep
Fields’ ripple, sounds like a Good Thing. Originating at the U. of Pittsburgh, Mellen has played spots in Pittsburgh, Philadelphia,
and Baltimore and was recently held over ten weeks at the Westwood Supper Club in Richmond. Washington & Lee wanted
him but Virginia got him for their Mid-Winters and he has been received with acclaim at other schools such as
Duquesne, Carnegie Tech, and Pitt. Junior Speakings will be his first appearance in North Carolina. His second will be the
Pika Ball at State. The Friday night formal will be a Masked Ball until intermission and Jim Dorsett is being
persuaded, if there are enough cash customers, to do his famous Milton Berle strip act that will make Gypsy Rose
Lee go back to red flannels, buttoned boots, and the duenna. So all you twinkle-toes scrape up 4-5ths of a
fin and a date and get warmed up for Spring Holidays, which is also a Good Thing.

Saturday Night Scene In The Tavern — Chivy chivying with a guy who claimed to be Lefty Gomez, famous baseball
holdout, and not only had he heard of Davidson but he said it is a Good Thing. And Lefty, or
whatever his name may be, threw snowballs to convince Jake Jacobs and predicted that Harvard would have a tough team.
And Tripod G. C. Lattimer trying to make a mustache for Mabel’s husband with spaghetti. Hoke (Strictly Business) Robinson trying
to interest D. P. Pender’s nephew in ad space in The Davidsonian. Legs Matthis, Mark Lillard, Foxy Tonnison, and Andy
Allen planning to mush back to school, you be the sled. And Tricky Dave puttingthe magnetic eye on Tres Chie
Barringer, who is pretty magnetic herself. But the gent from Richmond, may his tribe decrease. And Tad Turner, Billy French,
and Abie Conner looking for a ride back while Bill Cox and Bob McClelland stayed over for breakfast dates. True-Blue
Covington and John Chalk snow-bound so no river party. And Catherine Alexius, who has a classic profile, up from Converse
and dining with Jack Hellinger. Lovely Lib Gammon with J. C. and excited over Chi Omega and brother Graham winning
the half and the mile. Tom Corbin, THE Miss Nolan, and Joe Hunter celebrating Tom’s appointment to West Point. Dunny
Covington doubling up with early date at Queens and late date in town. Clyde Lee Whidden, recently transferred from Duke
to Queens, somehow reminiscent of Marlene Dietrich. Tommy Thompson with unidentified femme at Sunday dinner in Tavern. Maxie Britton and
Maxton looking for Nick, who had been missing since Sat. night. Tyler Port foiled by fickle finger of fate when
he announced on radio program that Spring was definitely here—four days later there was a four-inch snow, but he and
Coot Gladden and Johnny Anderson to Converse anyhow and they ask Tyler “did Darkeyes chechoynia?” (Sp. typewriter-graphical error). Harper Beall
to N. C. C. W. hop and we still want Rowena. Ed Armfield, George Norfleet, J. Summerell, Bill Ross, Bitts
Watkins, and Bob Wyatt to State Mid-Winters with Joe Haymes and George needed a sled. Bob Abell and Gil Palmer
to Chester and Pinky Puss and Pete Marchant to Greenville and using tub for sleigh ride. Marcus McConnell’s ink rubdown.
And at the Pika party Horton plus two minus one equaled none. Joe Kellam is the one in there now
and Dick Vowles is just another consonant. Is Violinist Rubinoff a plagiarist because he, also, sent a message to Garcia?
Gibb Smith says Linwood Brown ain’t got rhythm. Stew Barnes and Hal Overton throwing snowballs at little girls in front
of the Gym, shame, shame. Sobby Gish, Phil Friberg, and Ken Lawson late-dating legshow girls and Bobby lost recognition, Broadway
Bill and rib reading behind newspaper at S. P. E. house but paper was upside down, Bobby Florence, Buddy Branton,
Ken Knorr, and Skunky Peters to V. M. I. for Mid-Winters and Jan Garber welcomed them as bosom buddies because
he says that Davidson is a Good Thing. Dick Johnson, Herm the Germ Clark, Bailey Williams, and Perry Sloan to
Sweetbriar. George Jones, Jack Holland, and Jack Tillotson to Hollins. And Hal Overton is looking for a ride to Brenau
this weekend. Busthead Moseley and Fred McLean left for unknown destination Saturday and won't talk. Jimmy Poyner is at Myers
Park Club Friday night. Read this week’s Campus Comments. And, as Fields Horine appropriately said, auf Wiedersehen.

OPEN FORUM

Dear Editor:

I think some professors take sadistic pleasure in parceling out seats in their classrooms in some conventional order. I wonder
how many of the sages who assign seats realize what unnecessary cruelty they inflict on the unfortunates who are placed
right under the professorial nose or behind hulking six-footers. It seems that there is a group of professors who do
not wish to call the roll; they put their students in regimented places, which was all right back in junior
high school, but doesn’t look quite sensible at college. In the back we doze off or go through all sorts
of contortions in order to see through some of the rather ample shoulders in front. Up front we get stiff
necks looking up all the time; in fact, I doubt if many are satisfied with seats which are allotted indiscriminately.
There should be some protest from the common herd. There are worthies who would like the opportunity for illicit sleep,
letter writing, and tic-tac-toe in the rear of the rooms. There are those who prefer being noticed or who like
to see what is written on the blackboards. I suggest that we be given the opportunity to sit where we
wish. I always function better beside friends of mine while some fellows leave me comparatively unhappy (the studs) when they
assiduously take notes next to me. Let us check up on the professors who make many class hours tedious and
uncomfortable.

HARDICANUTE.

NUTSHELL

Cupid Faints

We've heard of the power of the press, but never saw it so vividly demonstrated as this week. In last
week's Nutshell some aspersions were cast at Old Man Winter, to the effect that he had not done right by
his reputation on the Davidson campus this year. It seems that the weekend has reversed all that, for we’ve had
one of the heaviest snows in years. So here let us make a public apology. Incidentally, I wish the guy
who wrote “I’ve Got My Love to Keep Me Warm,” could have ridden here from Charlotte in a rumble seat
Saturday night. Would he have felt like a fool!

A reliable source reveals that the identity of the late lamented Ima Heart-healer is inseparably linked with that of one
Frances Gunn (which makes this crack irresistible: Frances Gunns are always getting her in dutch with Germany). Sorry to spoil
your secret, Frances, but I really think you ought to take the blame for your own mistakes; also whatever credit
may be coming to you. Don’t start Gunning for me, though—I’m only fooling.

The new Constitution carried by a goodly majority yesterday, it would seem. Funny what an effect national politics can exert
on a school’s governmental life. Davidson has turned her back on the horse-and-buggy days now, and if present indications are
correct, as goes Davidson so goes the nation on this matter. Bet we know a national executive who would give
a lot to be able to scrap the constitution that gets in his hair as easily as our old one
was laid aside.

The Charlotte Observer reports that Woodrow Wilson was fined 20c during his freshman year at Davidson for disorderly conduct in
the halls. How times have changed! Either Woodrow picked a bargain day for his fling, or else the price level
has seen a decided rise. Nowadays the cheapest fine on the books is $1. And just think, for that amount
Wilson and his classmates could have been disorderly five times. Myomy!

Stuff: Have you seen the new Davidson Catalog? It is by far the slickest catalog (on the outside) that we
have yet encountered. Built somewhat on the lines of a cross between Coronet and Readers Digest. But beauty is only
skin deep, and inside it’s the same old Math and English. Examination of the new catalog mentioned above reveals that
next year’s Christmas holiday begins on the fifteenth and lasts until the fourth, a gain of some five days... This
year’s crop of radio programs from the campus has it all over those broadcasts last year... Congratulations to the new
Phi Betas.

Our heads still buzzing from examinations and mid-winters, we find ourselves already in the midst of the first review period
of the second semester. If you've studied enough so far to know what color your books are, you're the exception
and not the rule, and you've got my envy. If somebody told me my astronomy book was printed in pink
ink, I wouldn’t doubt him at all. (Of course I’m not taking astronomy—think I'd ask for a flunk?)

The French department took a step in the right direction when it brought a French moving picture to the local
“Moving Picture Emporium.” Despite the fact that the children had fleas in their hair and certain other drawbacks, it is
interesting to see how the other half acts. Here’s hoping the other language departments will follow suit. Only thing is
that any picture imported from Germany would probably show a shot of Hitler with wings and a harp, which would
be a bit more than most of us could swallow.
