**Corrected Text:**

( + terest WEDNESDAY, NOV. 10, 1937. THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Five Symphonic Band Plays Before Alumni Queens Holds ‘Y’ Conference Wicker and Bixler Represent Davidson Y. M. C. A. Queens-Chicora College was hostess to a conference of “Y” delegates last weekend at which five colleges were represented. Monroe Wicker and Charles Bixler were the official delegates of the Davidson College Y. M. C. A. The discussion centered around the “standard of efficiency.” The conference opened Saturday night, after supper had been served to the delegates. The meetings began at 7:15 Saturday night, were led by Miss Louise Crane of Queens-Chicora College. The outline of the discussion was put in seven sub-heads. 1. Prayer meetings, special prayer groups, etc. 2. Vesper programs and attendance. 3. Recreation. 4. Community work. 5. Open Forum meetings. 6. Special study groups — foreign and home missions. 7. Special contributions: a. Foreign mission projects. b. Home mission projects. c. Ministers’ Annuity Fund. d. Y. M. C. A. Budget. After the adjournment of the meeting at 9 P. M., on Saturday night, the members turned to a lighter program. A hot-dog feast was given, and Queens vied with Davidson in roasting wieners over the blazing coals. At 2:30 Sunday the conference reconvened for the second session. Miss Steele of Queens led the discussion. The subject of the discussion was “How can the Christian worker have the Christ-like mind and attitude?” There were five sub-heads under this discussion. They were: a. The Mind of Christ. b. Personal example of faith. c. Christian social life. d. Christ-like service, sacrifice, humility. e. Brotherly love, tolerance. There was a vesper service at 6:00 P. M., on Sunday, which was led by Dr. Redhead of the Second Presbyterian Church of Charlotte. And at 8:00 P. M. Dr. Gammon of the Myers Park Church preached the sermon, “How should Christian workers approach others in helping them to lead the Christian life?” Theme: “Let this mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus.” Philippians 2:5.

Pfohl Leads Band in Colorful Concert For Large Homecoming Crowd The Davidson College Symphonic Band presented a Benefit Concert in Chambers Auditorium on Friday evening, November 5, at 8:00 o’clock. The concert was presented as a part of the Homecoming program, and a large number of the alumni and friends of the college attended the concert. The Symphonic Band was led by James Christian Pfohl, Director of Music and the following program was presented: The Overture “Zampa” by Herold was the first number of the concert and this was followed by “The Miracle Suite” by Humperdinck, played by the band. The prelude was the next number and this was an organ solo played by Thane McDonald. The Procession and Children’s Dance was the following number. The finale consisted of eight numbers, “Under the Polar Star,” from “Looking Upward Suite,” by Sousa; “Dance Hongroise” by Ring, Hager, Hirsch, played by Bernard Hirsch; “Cabins” by Gillette, “Two Little Japs,” by Charrosin; “Short and Suite-Polka” by Short, rendered by Messrs. Hleims and Tillotson, “La Paloma” Mexican Serenade by Yradier, and “Mardi Gras” by Grofe. The concert was concluded by the playing of “The Red and Black” and “O Davidson.” The admission was set at 50c and Director Pfohl has stated that the concert was very successful financially. The money obtained from this concert is to be used for the trip to Cambridge, Mass., and the Harvard football game on November 13. The Benefit offered to many of the alumni their first opportunity of hearing the new alma mater of Davidson, “The Red And Black.”

With The Staff (Continued from Page Two) Visualize a Homecoming Day when we might play a team more nearly our equal: Alumni arriving on the scene would be surprised to find that the “old spirit” was not the same but had grown and risen to greater heights. They would join in with the student body in helping that team along with their shouts of encouragement. And when the game is over, no matter whether they are able to sing the victory march or not, they could go back home for another year happy to know that Davidson teams still fight hard and play fairly and that Davidson students still have that fighting spirit. The thing that we should do for these returning alumni is give them a good show for their money. It isn’t that we lack spirit but that we have our guests at the wrong time—when we're already vexed and we know it. We have to be able to make Davidson men proud of their school. —OVID BELL.

TEENY ADDS (Continued from Page 1) excellence both in the classroom and on the drill field, Lafferty was informed of his appointment by letter and has not, as yet, learned just what his duties will be. His appointment, however, should arouse a great deal of interest here and further friendly relations with the body.

Rifle Team Is Formed For Scheduled Contests The R. O. T. C. rifle squad of Davidson College is being formed and trained for the coming season, according to Major J. L. Ballard, coach of the group. He stated that while the squad is to be built around the remnants of last year’s squad, he expects some freshmen to win places on the team. Matches have been scheduled with other schools and will be shot at night as most of them are correspondence matches. The team will go to the Citadel some time after mid-winter exams to fire a shoulder-to-shoulder match with the Citadel team. Later the Citadel team will come to Davidson to fire another shoulder-to-shoulder match with our team. Ballard also stated that the team will enter the official Corps Area War Department small bore match and will fire in the Charlotte Reserve Officers Association and the William Randolph Hearst Trophy Match. The correspondence matches have been scheduled with Washington University at St. Louis, Mo., the University of Iowa at Iowa City, Iowa; the University of Dayton at Dayton, Ohio, the University of Missouri at Columbia, Mo.; the New Mexico Military Institute of Roswell, N. M., and the University of Georgia, at Athens, Ga. Other matches will probably be scheduled later. The members of last year's squad who are returning this year include Captain W. S. Pharr, Cagle, Dave McLean, Joe Woodward, Fitzgerald, Kunz, Myers, W. S. King, Theiling, and Perrin. Ballard stated that practices will be held one or two evenings a week and will last for an hour and a half.

GRADS HEAR PROF. CURRIE (Continued from Page 1) would do to ride the river?” Dr. Currie concluded. Dr. W. L. Lingle, president of the college, greeted the alumni in the name of the college and Frank L. Jackson, treasurer, spoke on the plans of the Homecoming weekend, which included an alumni banquet on Saturday of Homecoming. J. Caldwell McDonald, president of the Charlotte Mecklenburg Alumni Association, presided and introduced the speakers.

Note to Law Students: If you want to enjoy peaceful membership on the United States Supreme Court, don’t join the Ku Klux Klan in early life! In case you doubt that such an affiliation will rise to harass you, let your correspondent refer you to Mr. Justice Hugo L. Black, late a Senator from Alabama. Boston has been displaced as the home of the most Harvard alumni. New York has more than 7,000, the new alumni directory revealed.

Practicing in the Towers, “Smitty” were: St. Council Makes Check On Dancers Among the Greeks Beta Theta Pi— The chapter had their annual banquet in Charlotte at Thacker’s, Saturday night. About 95 members and alumni attended the affair. Bob Frazier, district chief, was present with the brothers. Most of the brothers attended the dances over the weekend. Girls house over the weekend were: Marjorie Wakefield, Syble Searcy, Fay Lineberger, Emily Quigley, Virginia Hunter, Barbara Davis and Dorcas Boyett. Mr. M. E. Morrow, father of Brother Ed Morrow, visited the chapter over the weekend.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon— The chapter gave a banquet Saturday night in Charlotte at the Wooden Bowl in honor of the girls who were guests for the dances. George Matthis was master of ceremonies. Alumni members present were H. T. Mills, Tom Marchant, Hoke Robinson, Lamont Brown, Ken Fryfogle, and Archie Shuford. Girl guests for the weekend were: Camille McDaniel, Jeanne Cushman, Elen Elderby, Julia Vinson, Nell Alexander, Annette Putney, Dot Wyatt, Anne Lee Moore, Mary Graham, Mary Marshall Jones, Carolyn Stansel, Elizabeth Lee, Gladys Sette, Emily Goodrum, Dot Muse, Rubye Ratcliff, Mary Lib Walston, Dorothy Martin, Emma Kern Jones, Nell Rowland, Betty Shall, Dolly Nicholson, Kellen Gray Nicholson, Irma Gafford, Virginia Lee, Emily Sebrell, Nancy Gatewood, Della Copeland, Montic Nicholson, Epsie Fuller, Edna Montgomery, and Alworthy. Upchurch, Woodall Rose wanted a date, but couldn't get up enough nerve to ask her. Other guests during the weekend were: Mrs. Frank Hawley, Mrs. Sloan, Mr. and Mrs. Fred Bahnson, Sr., Fred Bahnson, Jr., Reid Bahnson, Dr. and Mrs. Faison, Mrs. Steele, Enid Smith, Philip Link, Brother Bill Harper of Mississippi State, and brothers of N. C. U.

Kappa Alpha— Nearly all the brothers went to the dances and other festivities last weekend. One of the homecoming features was the fraternity banquet Saturday night in the private dining room of the Hotel Charlotte, at which Dr. Frazer Hood was the principal speaker. Many alumni, including Brothers Tom Downie, Coot Gladden, Sam Hufstetler, Scotty McLeod, Reginald Harris, and J. C. Crowell, were also present. Kit Fitzsimons, University of South Carolina cheerleader, was a guest.

Maj. Ballard Speaks At Faculty Meeting The Buccaneers Club held their first meeting of the year on last Thursday in the Quadwrangler room. An address by Maj. J. L. Ballard on “The Battle of Wilmington” was the highlight of the program. Major Ballard brought out the fact that lack of co-operation among the Confederate leaders probably cost them the battle.Guest for the weekend, and almost caused trouble in the ranks with his sneaking ability. Beauty was added to the scene by the presence of the following girls: Misses Lib Gammon, Charlotte; Sue Atte, Concord; Sarah Julia Dupre, Margaret Shirley Anne Peters, Sarah Glenn, Chester, SC. The members of the Pan-Hellenic Council gather on the steps of Georgia dormitory for an informal meeting after a big Homecoming weekend. Caught in the act of splitting the profits with fellow councilmen is Jerry Harris, senior from Oxford, N.C., and representative for the Sigma Phi Epsilon fraternity. Wish we had a cut in the profit...! Brother Jim Hill went home for the weekend and Brother Julian Lokey went to Thomson, Ga. Among the guests of the chapter this week were alumni Brothers Joe Munter, “Honest John” Porterfield, Harmon Woodward, Goof Warren, Tom Cameron, Matt Alderman, Ben Wyche, and Marion Davis and Mrs. Marion Davis. The following girls were guests of the chapter for the weekend: Misses Jane Flashagen, Mary Lab Moore, Delt Sutherland, “Wav Way” Lumpkin, Libby Carter, Anne Pfenell, Annie Mae Brown, Laura Fleming, Sally McDowell, Gorley, Charlotte; Snookie Bird, of Charlotte; Mary Cobb Wayward, Charlotte; Kitty Jones, Norfolk, Va.; Caroline Goggans, Columbia, SC; Emily Harris, Greensboro; Boulware, Anne Kish, June Kish, Pogues Cleveland, Spartanburg, SC; Marilyn Brittain, Charlotte; Betty McCall, Florence, SC; Margia Moseley, Charlotte; Rosa Sims, Rock Hill, SC; Jacqueline Ray, Oxford; Dot Hoppe, Charlotte; Nell Sadler, Charlotte; Welch, Carlisle, SC; Katy Brosins, Marion, Va., and Charlotte Kofner, Raleigh. The chapter enjoyed having as guests the parents of Brother and Pledge Brother Kenney and Pledge Brother Bill Jammon, as well as the mother of Pledge Brother Gordon Horton and her guest, Miss Lily Summers. Brother Horace Jr. was down from Carolina. Kappa Sigma—The chapter was host during the weekend to a large number of guests, alumni, brothers from State and Carolina, and friends who came here to attend the Homecoming festivities. The chapter gave a banquet in Charlotte, Saturday evening, for the brothers and their dates and returning alumni. A feed was given during the open-house immediately after the game. Guests for the weekend were Misses Annabelle Boyd, Columbus, Ga.; Harriet Boyd, Columbia; Sarah Frances Crosby, Chester; Flora Coker and Katie Coker, Hartsville; Eleanor Echols, Greensboro; Margaret Henderson, North Wilkesboro; Jane Highsmith, Greensboro; Hanna Huske, Fayetteville; Shirley Ingram, Greensboro; Ellen Munroe, Japan; Lillian Pou and Sarah Oliver, Raleigh; Frances Bird, Valdosta, Ga.; Susan Evans, Pauls; Virginia Rogers, Dillon, SC; Bette Sanders, Fayetteville; Kay Toole, Haverford, Pa.; brothers Faw, Elinor Walker, Charlotte, Evelyn Bagby, Raleigh, and Barbara Thompson, Raleigh. Pi Kappa Phi—The chapter held a formal banquet at the S&W Cafeteria on Friday night before the dance. While they were bickering, the Federal guns proceeded to disable the guns of the Confederates. During his interesting talk, Major Ballard frequently referred to instructive maps and charts which emphasized his points and brought out his meaning more clearly. Prof. W. N. Mebane, president of the society, presided at the proceedings.

SHOE SHOP IN CHARLOTTE
Free Delivery To Davidson
Bowden Shoe Shop
716 E. Trade St.

President Wilson acted as toastmaster, Percy Pye, Helen Vera Anne Hardison, Mickey Mason, Nancy Brazier, Tillie Delis, Virginia Ervin, Jenny Sewell.

Pi Kappa Alpha—The chapter held a breakfast for its members last Sunday morning in Charlotte. Most of the brothers attended the dances over the weekend. Girls who visited the chapter over the weekend were: Nancy Pat Hamilton, Eloise Rawles, Martha Jean Pettaway, Arden Trowbridge, Kitty Garnett, Nancy Lyons, Martha Patterson, Marjorie Dlease, Betsy Springer, Dell Sutherland, Eliner Dees, Elizabeth Davee, Kathleen Elkin, Ann Lamberth, Helen Williford, Mary Edwards, Elinor Newman, and Blanche Harrelson. Alumni who visited the chapter included: David McMillan, Julian Webb, “Snoz” Rob Anders, and Clanton Little. Visitors included: Mr. and Mrs. O.M. Crisp, Morse, L.L. Miller, Mrs. J.L. Rawles. Among girls down for the Homecoming game with Carolina and the dances were Alice Murdock, Alice Wright Murphy, and Helen Noell of Salisbury; Betty Bahnson of Winston-Salem; Lucy Culver and Isabel Teague of Montgomery, Ala.; Sara Craig of Monroe; Josephine Harlan of Florence, Ala.; Kath Whalin of Middlesboro, Ky.; Ann Wiley of Charlotte; Mary Dorcas Harding and Julia Ruggles of Wilson; June Maupin of Roanoke, Va.; Mildred Simpson and Susan Buchanan of Knoxville, Tenn.; and Tina Granger of Charlotte. Alumni who were back for the festivities were Buddy Branton, Don Chipman, John Foster, Dave McLean, Joe McNabb, Russell Patterson, Harold Sugg, Bill Taber, Gene Vogler, John Sievers. The chapter held a banquet at Hotel Charlotte on Saturday night at 7 o'clock. Gilbert was toastmaster. Dr. and Mrs. H.J. Rolin of Mascot, Tenn., Billy Harper of Laurel, Miss., and Alvin Smith of Knoxville, Tenn., a pledge of Kappa Tau chapter, were guests of the chapter over the weekend. Bob Johnson went to his home in Knoxville, Tenn. for the weekend.

Phi Delta Theta—The guests of the N.C. Gamma chapter for the homecoming weekend were as follows: Anna Mae Feuchtedberger, Jane Washburn, Eugenia Cary, Catherine Thompson, Margot Phalen Grey, Kathleen Lytton, Jean Stough, Jean Mitchell, Jane Wylie, Robin Hood, Louise Fant, Frances Alexander, Anne Spriggs, Betty Anne Bird, Pat Jeter. The alumni returning were: Timmy White, Buddy Robinson, Timmy Westall, Dan Griffin, Holmes, George McClenachan. A breakfast was held at the Hotel Charlotte after the Saturday night dance.

Sigma Phi Epsilon—Alumni who visited the chapter over the weekend were: Charles Gold, Norman Weathers, and Daymond Turner. Most of the boys attended the house festivities. Girls who visited the house for the festivities were: Jenny Ruth Smith, Margaret Lyons, Betty Purser, Jane Ellen Taylor, Dot Wright, Helen Wayne, Betty Baker, Dot Poole, Fowler Spencer, Charlotte McAden, and Virginia Sample. John Doty spent the weekend, as usual, in Rock Hill, SC.

SERVICE SUPERB
Hair Cuts, Shaves, Shines, Shampoos
Johnston Barber Shop

CAROLINA THEATRE
Mooresville, N.C.
Thurs. Nov. 11-12 “Easy Living”
Mon.-Tues. Nov. 15-16 “Imitation of Life”
Return Engagement with Claudette Colbert

DAVIDSON STUDENTS WELCOME: Tommy Wilson, and Ed Wooten.

Jake Houston of The Observer Entertains Class With Talk
The second meeting of the new Journalism class started by Fred Smith was held in Chambers last Wednesday with “Professor” Jake Houston, Observer staff photographer, as the lecturer for the night's program. Tonight, Jake Wade, the capable Observer sports editor, is scheduled to speak on the subject of sports writing, and he promises to be very interesting. Professor Houston spoke a full hour on news photography, and when he finished, the students asked for more. He obliged by telling the stories behind a group of news pictures he had on display and was applauded by the class, who asked him to appear on a future program. “The public is getting more and more picture conscious,” said Mr. Houston, in speaking of journalistic development. “Photography has made more progress in the last ten years than it did in the fifty years previous. Some of the early portraits made in the early days of the art are still hard to beat, but news photography and the work done by the so-called ‘candid’ cameras are getting better every day.” Members of the Davidson Photographic Club were special guests of the class.

Attend Meets
Two very important educational meetings, which are of interest to the college and those connected with it, were attended this week by two of the most eminent figures in Davidson. The two meetings were the Southern University Conference, held at Atlanta, Ga., and that of the Association of American Colleges which was held at Birmingham, Ala. Dr. W. J. Lingle attended the one in Atlanta, while Mr. F.L. Jackson met with the other in Birmingham. Both of them took part in the programs held there.

Margaret Roper, Kappa Alpha and you President Gilbert Palmer should set the style in sox for winter. College men should and will wear the Interwoven and Westminster Hose. WITH—Neat Stripes, Argyle Plaids, Solids in English ribs. FABRICS—Wools, Wools with lisle lining, Wools mixed with cotton, Lisles, Silks. COLORS—Greys-all shades, Blues-all shades, Greens-all shades. For Your Entire Wardrobe... Visit MARION DAVIS CO. 205 S. Tryon Street CHARLOTTE, N.C.