WEDNESDAY, APRIL 28, 1937 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Three

Dr. H. W. DuBose Talks at Sunday’s Vesper Service On Text in Ecclesiastes

Scripture Lesson Is Taken From the Third Chapter of St. John

POWERFUL TEXT CHOSEN

Three Main Thoughts Are Clearly Outlined

Dr. Henry Wade DuBose, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Spartanburg, S.C., was the guest minister at the weekly vesper service held last Sunday evening in Chambers Auditorium. Dr. DuBose read the Scripture Lesson and later delivered the sermon. The Scripture Lesson was taken from the third chapter of the Gospel according to St. John. The text chosen for the sermon was the eighth verse of the tenth chapter of Ecclesiastes: “He that diggeth a pit shall fall into it; and whoso breaketh an hedge, a serpent shall bite him.”

The sermon was based upon three main thoughts that Dr. DuBose clearly outlined in the beginning. They were: every sin is a trespass unto the Lord, every trespass has a painful penalty, and there is a remedy. Man is supposed to follow the Law of God. The Law of God is a way of living in which man may safely walk without trespassing. God sent servants and His only begotten son to lead man in the right paths. This, however, was not to curtail his pleasure. The Laws of God were given not to restrict and cramp, but to enlarge and make richer. Men have trespassed since Eve tempted Adam and Cain killed Abel. And for each trespass there is a painful penalty. All along the road men and women have been breaking the hedges, and they have been trespassing against the Lord.

“God has always had to deal with a trespassing race. Jacob deceived his brother and he was repaid with penalties. Saul’s head was turned from the road, and he became unhappy and jealous of David. This was his penalty for breaking the hedge. David, the one whom God loved dearly, broke through the hedge (Continued on Page 6)

TOWNSPEOPLE WILL VISIT GEORGIA AND WATTS NEXT WEEK

First Floors of These Dormitories Will Hold Open House on May 6

Davidson students will entertain townspeople on May 6 as representatives of the first floors of Georgia and Watts dormitories hold open house. With the spirit of good fellowship between the college and the town, the first floors of these two dormitories will be open to visitors. The feature of the hour’s program will be a public interview with Dr. Burwell, the oldest man in Davidson, after the guests have gone through the boys’ rooms. Dr. Burwell will be asked to compare conditions of his day with the dormitory conditions of today. This movement started months ago when many of the boys expressed a desire to return the courtesy which the faculty and townspeople have extended to them. Many students have taken pride in decorating and beautifying their rooms for the visitors. The visitors will be received at the parlor of Watts dormitory, and there will be a tour through the rooms of the first floors of these two dormitories. On the steps of Georgia, a reception will be held where Dr. Burwell will be interviewed. Dr. McLain will also be present. These men represent all dormitories: Cave, Brewer, Bill (Continued on Page 6)

Overton and Ryburn Edit ‘Thick’ Issue of Magazine

Editor Hal Overton and Editor-elect Sam Ryburn, working as co-editors, have formulated their plan for the forthcoming Centennial issue of “Scripts and Pranks” and are working with a great deal of material in an attempt to bring together the best possible manuscripts, etc., for the giant magazine. Saturday has been announced as the deadline for all contributions to the Centennial issue of “Scripts and Pranks.” The Centennial issue will contain over forty pages, composed of student, alumni, and history sections. The student division will feature pictures of ten outstanding leaders of the Centennial class along with their college careers. The alumni section will include brief resumes of the men. The contributions will include articles from editors of Davidson magazines such as “Yowl” and “The Chameleon,” and maybe even further back than that. Editor Overton expects the reprints from recent and ancient Davidson magazines to be the most interesting part of the historical section. There will be reprints of old stories, articles, and jokes. “The ‘Scripts and Pranks’ won’t be one hundred years old,” says Overton, “but it will bring three generations of Davidson history together.” The date for the appearance of the magazine will probably comePress some 1 after the eatable of May. Hanes Shorts are famous too — because they're not made for midgets! You can put the heftiest hips into Hanes, and have space to spare — to sit, stoop, or walk without pulling or binding! And look at the legs on Hanes. They reach far enough below the crotch so they can’t crawl up! Genuine Lastex in the belt. Colors fast. Pull on a Hanes Shirt. Watch FOR MEN AND BOYS FOR EVERY SEASON how it grips under the armpits... Stretches coolly and firmly across your chest. And when you get it under your belt, it's down there to stay. Hanes has enough length to keep from riding up! See your Hanes Dealer today. P. H. Hanes Knitting Co., Winston-Salem, N. C. SHIRTS 35¢ and 55¢ EACH SHORTS 39¢ and 55¢ EACH SAMSONBAE Sanforized Union-Suits, $1 each; others, 79¢ up. Above ball will take place at Charlotte.

SPONSORS AND OFFICERS FOR MILITARY BALL

Dailey and his nationally known Meadowbrook orchestra will play for this event.

ROB ROY PURDY IS GIVEN SCHOLARSHIP

Gets One Year Scholarship at Vanderbilt For Graduate Work in English

Roy Purdy, a graduate, has recently received a one-year scholarship at Vanderbilt University to take graduate work in English. Purdy has done a great deal of work in English. He has taken an honors course in English under Professor Phil Basfein, focusing on drama, particularly those of Shakespeare. He has also done work in the last year. Much of his time has been spent in public speaking. He will begin his graduate work at Vanderbilt University in the Graduate Department.

(Continued on Page 6)

DR. ENGLE SPEAKS AT SEVERAL FUNCTIONS

Trip to Atlanta Will Include An Address Before Alumni Group May 2

In the midst of a busy schedule, Dr. Walter Engle will address several groups. On May 2, he will speak before the Atlanta Alumni Group. He will also address the Rocky Mount School at 10:30. Dr. Engle will speak before the Charlotte Junior High School. On the same day, he will give the address.

(Continued on Page 6)

DRY GOODS GROCERIES RADIO SUPPLIES HARDWARE

M. H. GOODRUM & CO. Zenith & RCA Radios

GET Expert Service AT Norton’s Barber Shop NORTON and CIDROAM Proprietors

CARS FOR RENT M. P. Henderson GULF GAS & OIL

Morrison Is Speaker At Alumni Meeting Held On Founders’ Day Last Week

‘LES ROMANESQUES’ IS PRESENTED HERE BY CONVERSE GIRLS

Davidson College’s annual Founders’ Day, the largest ever held, was celebrated on campus. Dr. Moore, president of the university, presided over the event. 

MISS MARY GWYN WILLIAMS CAPT. EDWARD S. FINLEY MISS JANE HOLMAN MAJ. WILBUR EDWARDS are the leaders in Scabbard and Blade, which is sponsoring the Military Ball on the 7th. The event will be held at the Armory Auditorium between the hours of ten and two. Frank Dailey and his orchestra will play.

Two Comedies in French Are Presented to Winthrop College Girls

Math Professor Advertises For High-Wheel and Tandem Bicycles

NEED INDIAN ARTICLES

Many Attics Will Be Searched for Antiques

Wassermann Tests

Major Seifert Is Sent to Puerto Rican Post

EVERY BOTTLE UNTOUCHED UNTIL YOU DRINK IT

Automatic machines fill sterilized bottles and seal them. The HANDY FAMILY PACKAGE ensures that nothing you eat or drink is more carefully protected from contamination. Available in the convenient 6-box from your dealer. ICE-COLD COCA-COLA IS EVERY PLACE ELSE, IT BELONGS IN YOUR ICE-BOX AT HOME.