Page Two
The Davidsonian
Founded By the Class of 1915

1936 Member 1937
Associated Collegiate Press
Distributors of Collegiate Digest.

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Printed By The
STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON AVE. NEW YORK, N.Y.
CHICAGO - BOSTON - LOS ANGELES - SAN FRANCISCO

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879.

Editor-in-Chief DICK VOWLES
Business Manager R. H. ROBINSON

EDITORIAL STAFF
Bechuek Dade Assistant Editor
Ovid Bell Managing Editor
Joe Calvin Managing Editor
Wesley Coats Managing Editor
Terrell Managing Editor
Perry Staan Managing Editor
Bill Marquess Sports Editor
Owen Cooke Associate Editor
Sam Cothran Associate Editor
Euclid Fant Associate Editor
Hector McGeachy Associate Editor
Yates Faison Associate Editor
Sam Ryburn Art Editor
Henry Baker Movie Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
Collections Manager Andy Turner
John Latimer Advertising Manager
Bill Miller Asst. Advertising Manager
Westie Coghill Circulation Manager
Terrell Porter Circulation Manager
Sam Hemphill Asst. Business Manager

We extend our sincerest sympathies to Bailey Williams in the recent loss of his father.

The Second Century...
Davidson College can now look back with a great deal of satisfaction over its first one hundred years of service.
Still more can it look forward to one hundred years of even greater service.

Innumerable advantages stand out—more directly applicable to the 1937-38 year. Davidson College now has the largest enrollment in the history
of the school. Nor is it a mere motley array of students. The present freshman class is the best by
actual statistics in the history of freshman classes. Thus the College has a better type of men with which to
start this second century.

Davidson College has an even greater endowment than ever before. Without some form of backing capital, any such institution is
incapable of maintenance. Campaigning is rapidly taking care of all wants and needs in the way of building funds. With
an excellent administration and faculty, augmented by much needed new men, Davidson College has the backbone necessary to carry on
with excellent teaching and maintenance. But even more than these things of a material nature, the spirit of Davidson will
continue to grow and thrive with every added year. Davidson can well look back with pride upon the past century
and look forward to a century of still greater progress!

Our Policies...
As the first issue of the 1937-38 Davidsonian comes off the press, we think it appropos that our readers know
something of the editorial plans and policies of this newspaper. Incorporated in the masthead are the words “Published weekly ‘For
a Better Davidson’.” We can find no better general aim, but there still remain other factors in this policy.

We of the staff wish to do two things during the year. First, we wish to publish a paper that
will interest and please the students, faculty, and others affiliated with the College. Second, we hope to put out a
weekly that will rate well in the nation. The Davidsonian in the past has done both of these to some
extent, but there is always room for improvement.

A member of last year’s graduating class made this all too true statement: “It seems to me that the true
worth and interest of The Davidsonian OUGHT to lie in the editorial page. The rest of the paper merely serves
as a record for events.” And that senior was absolutely correct in his statement. It is difficult to fill a
weekly with a great deal of real “news.” Not that the paper should not eke out every bit of news
available. We are not trying to excuse ourselves from giving you the news. In the future, we want to cut
the stories of past events as much as possible and give you news and lots of it.

But evidently the greatest interest in the paper lies in the editorial side. During the coming year, we hope to
give you a successor to “Sweeping the Campus” that will satisfy the most avid keyhole fiends on the campus. Your
gossip column will not be mud-slinging by any means but on the other hand we expect to cover the social
activities and inclinations on the hill. Your movie column will continue with improvements, sports editor Marquess will carry on with
his weekly column, and “Among the Greeks” will continue to report the news of the fraternities. Replacing “Campus Comments,” we
offer a staff column conducted weekly by the various editors on The Davidsonian. Not only will this give you varied
opinions on local and national happenings, but the staffers will have an additional opportunity to show their worth as newspaper
men. To gather even more diverse opinions into the editorial sheet, open forum letters will be welcomed and a greater
number published according to the discretion of the editor.

The Davidsonian has often been criticized for being too light in nature. For that reason and to settle any complaints,
we intend to use more editorials that deal seriously with campus events and as much as possible events of state
and national interest. The Davidsonian is planning to put every bit into the paper that is humanly possible. And we
expect the student body to do the same. The paper means nothing without the cooperation of each individual student. Any
suggestions are welcomed. Let's use our paper to “make a better Davidson.”

Mrs. A. B. Robson...
One of the Student Body's best friends, Mrs. A. B. Robson, the College Nurse, resigned from her position during the
summer. For the past twenty-nine years Davidson students have trekked to the Infirmary to have her treat everything from athlete’s
foot to streptococcal throats.

Upperclassmen will remember with pleasure the great help she has been, rendering unselfish service at all times. For such service
as this she was awarded the Algernon Sydney Sullivan Award some years ago. For years she has dreamed of a
new infirmary, adequately equipped to meet the needs of the students. Now that that infirmary nears completion, she has decided
to step out of the picture. But she will be missed by her patients, the students with whom she would
joke as they awaited the doctor’s visit to make them forget how awfully sick they thought they were. But she
has grown to love Davidson as we all do, and she will stay here in our midst to watch young
boys come to college and young men go out into the world.

With The Staff...
The nine social fraternities here on the campus have just come through the most strenuous and hectic part of the
whole school year. Rushing season has come and gone, and one glance at any fraternity man tells a story of
long nights when he sat with his brothers and weighed the merits of the prospective pledges. But that is all
a thing of the past now, and everyone breathes a sigh of relief as he settles down to the normal
serenity of life on the cloistered Davidson campus.

Now that age-old question of a fraternity’s value arises again. It has been said time and again that a man
can get out of a fraternity only as much as he puts into it. The saying still holds true. The
association with one's brothers can do much to develop his qualities of leadership, broadmindedness, and poise. Through a fraternity can
be made contacts which will prove useful and enjoyable as long as the man lives. It provides a common ground
on which lasting friendships can be formed. Thus it can be seen that a fraternity man has some advantage over
others, not because of the pin that he wears on his vest but because of the many things his lodge
has done for him in his four years in college.

There is one charge often made against fraternities and fraternity men, that of snobbishness. Every one of these men naturally
thinks that his lodge is the best on the campus, in the country, and even in the whole world, else
he would not have joined it. That is what is known as fraternity spirit. But this can be carried so
far and then it becomes snobbishness. When a man comes to the point where he looks down on another because
he wears no pin or a different badge on his chest, he has lost the spirit of the thing. In
other words, a fraternity cannot make men — it takes men to build a fraternity. —OVID BELL.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Letters to the Editor
ASIATIC WAR...
Dear Mr. Editor:
Gen. Hugh Johnson says he did not raise his son to be a soldier—on an Asiatic battlefield fighting for the
Russian Reds. His poppa probably did not raise him to be cannon-fodder in France, either. General Johnson and many others
who ought to know tell us that right now we are building up to 1917 all over again. The papers
have, for ten weeks now, been building up our sympathy for China as against Japan. We have a right to
be sympathetic with China. But the American nation, including you and me, are a sentimental people. Perhaps we have...

Our social life has always been one of the finest examples of student initiative. Carried on under difficulties, Davidson dances
have, nevertheless, always set high standards of conduct. And the esteem in which students have held them are witnessed by
the large number of sisters and cousins who come to every weekend. Many parents and faculty members have been welcome
guests at these functions. While not wishing to take sides in the ancient controversy about the morality of dancing, we
feel that if many of its critics would attend a Davidson weekend they must have vivid imaginations.Indeed, to find anything
worthy of censure therein, and it does not take very long. Generations of students with faculty co-operation finally fixed the
number of weekends at six for the school year. WEDNESDAY, SEPT. 22, 1937

By writing a dirt column, kids, as well as numerous other things, kind of puts you on the spot. If
you mention a fellow, and you certainly won't unless he does something which merits mention, you are severely reprimanded and
told that the story's all wrong anyhow. If you don’t mention a fellow, you aren’t much of a snooper because
if anybody deserved publicity for his antics last week, that fellow did. So there you are, between the devil and
the deep. Probably the best system would be to make every man in school a stooge for this column. Then
there wouldn’t be anybody left to write about, which would mean there wouldn't be any column. That’s all right, too,
because I'd rather lead a band, anyhow. But there is a column—

Regret lack of dirt in traditional Cade manner, but doubt even that one worthy's ability to unearth printable dirt during
a rush week. (Rush stories taboo. The stuff we know they won't print in newspapers). The past week amazed me
again as usual—the old case of Jekyll and Hyde. Sour pusses completely annihilated, deluges of smiles flooding the campus—a freshman's
paradise. Seniors dominating all scenes, with sanctified countenances and outstretched hands, with the gleeful rats merrily rushing and gobbling up
the prepared cheeses awaiting them. But a fine time was had by all—

In “news-box.”

For A Day
CHUBBY KING

Remember “Ginger”... Sonny Heilman stepped off the simmer at the Rock with a crisp little girl from Lenoir... I'm getting
tired, kids; I'll go to bed and dream. I think about a sweet little Tampa maid—hope you have the same
luck because it’s a lotta fun...

Davidson Has New, Larger Press Box

Construction of a new and larger press box on Richardson Field has been completed during the summer and the box
will be used for the first time at the Davidson-Erskine football game Saturday. The new structure is built in the
most modern manner and will accommodate about fifty people and also have accommodations and facilities for radio broadcasts and for
moving pictures. It is one of the largest press boxes in the state. More interest is being shown this year
than ever before by the newspapers and especially by the smaller dailies, so representatives from all the leading papers of
the Carolinas are expected to fill the box. Each of the papers will send two men, and it is most
likely that the box will be filled to its capacity on next Saturday.

Report Card

A very fine time was had by all, especially the upperclassmen. Am glad the Hail Ye Fair Fellow Well Met
time is over though—an arid source for a puritan scandal monger. Greensboro and Bright Lights... Women and Other Things... also
a football game which was excellent (Note, look for Sport's page). Experienced observers commented on the tameness of the social
life this year. Are we slipping? However, this week’s question parade... Ask Bosco Marion what was nearly long to work
them up to a campaign to make the world safe for Communism and Fascism. We will soon be wanting to
trot over to China and win this war for them. America has no business getting into an Asiatic war. Our
business interests and missionaries over there are guests—they have no rights. If Europe and the U.S. get embroiled in this
Sino-Japanese conflict, will “justice” have been vindicated when the horror has dragged out for several years and hundreds of thousands
of men have been killed who would not have been killed otherwise? A few Belgians were killed ruthlessly by Germany.
Any excuse to slaughter thousands of Americans? Let's not let it happen again!

—RON, T.

SOCIAL LIFE...

Dear Dick:

From a number of sources, I have heard the apparently well-founded rumor that Davidson has further reduced the number of
school dances. And, with utter disregard of the Davidson tradition, I see no evidence of any student taking this step
which so vitally affects student life. It would seem that the administration has taken advantage of the unfortunate Pan-Hellenic upheaval
last spring to put over a measure which cannot but prove unpopular and will have little real benefits.

The average student cannot afford more, the average school year would be barren of social life with less. Such a
number meant that normal social needs were satisfied without an overdose. And although called Pan-Hellenic or class dances, they belonged
to the school as a whole. All Davidson students and their friends were welcome. Students assumed responsibility, financial and otherwise.
Yet a comparison of costs will show that prices were reasonable, quality was high, and the school gained much valuable
publicity. Now it is proposed that these, almost the only functions at which the student body as a whole could
meet and mingle socially, be discontinued, at least in part on the theory that smaller fraternity functions can take their
place. Think of the clannishness and snobbery to which such a policy can easily lead. The individual fraternities have neither
the funds nor the inclination to give large parties or “outsiders.” Possibly they could in part supply the needs of
their membership. But that half of the student body which is non-Greek will find itself deprived of its only social
outlets before you take the lamb!

—ALUMNOS.

The Weekly Time Table

WEDNESDAY—SEPT. 22
7:15 P. M. Editorial Staff of The Davidsonian meets at the office.

THURSDAY—SEPT. 23
7:00—10:00 P. M. Weekly meetings of the social fraternities.

SATURDAY—SEPT. 25
2:30 P. M. Varsity football game with Erskine on Richardson Field.

SUNDAY—SEPT. 26
6:30 P. M. College Vesper Service in Chambers Auditorium. The Rev. Dr. Charles F. Myers of Greensboro will speak.

MONDAY—SEPT. 27
Honorary fraternities begin their meeting schedule:
7:00 P. M. Gamma Sigma Epsilon chemical society meets.
8:00 P. M. Delta Phi Alpha and the Deutscher Verein hold a joint meeting.

TUESDAY—SEPT. 28
7:00 P. M. Sigma Delta Pi and the Spanish Club hold a joint meeting.
9:00 P. M. The Y. M. C. A. Cabinet holds its weekly meeting.

Think twice: Dick was found later night-clubbing with attractive Bibbie Yates... Other luminaries of previous years with Johnny Mackorell, Paul
Pittman, Wood Burns, and Big Tubby Hand in a foursome... Pitt's date sporting a sparkler... Less illustrious alumni seen at
the Town Talk after the game—George Norfleet deeper and deeper with Meredith Holder. Tom Breeden with Lib Gammon... North Carolina's
leader of the Big Apple, Carl “Ugly” Carlson, squiring Mickie Mason—later Lite Appling with Helen... Tyler Port with some blonde...
This sizzling night spot also played host to several undergraduates—rather a distinguished list... Jim Dorsett stood around, Bobby Arrowsmith sat
in the corner, Lawrence Reid used both hands, Billie Crooks with visions of Mayview Manor married women haunting him (or
it might have been their husbands)... Yates Faison—the boy with personality, Milton Crisp—he kept the door open, Wade Barrow huddled
with “Sister”—I thought of Columbia... They say Paul McGarrity is so faithful, but...

By HENRY B. BAKER

(The following film ratings are based upon those of “Esquire,” “Modern Screen,” and local theater advertising, augmented by the columnist’s
own observations). The alphabetical ratings are: A—Excellent; B—Good; C—Fair; D—Poor.

B “BROADWAY MELODIES of 1938”—Robert Taylor and Eleanor Powell. Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer rushes the season with a typical musical comedy, having several
new song and dance hits. The feminine idol, Robert Taylor, and his opposite, Eleanor Powell, are well supported by a
large cast of screen favorites.

B “ANNAPOLIS SALUTE”—James Ellison, Marsha Hunt, and Carey Van Heflin. Hollywood presents a story of navy life centered around the
United States Naval Academy. The plot is fair but the cast involved is not well known to the general public.

A “KNIGHT WITHOUT ARMOR”—Francis Donat and Marlene Dietrich. The exciting story of a British agent caught in a Russian revolution.
“Thrilling action, rather offensive at times,” says Esquire. Donat and Dietrich fit their parts well. Prominent movie and newspaper critics
in Modern Screen give this production a rating of three and a half stars.

C “DEAR MISS ALDRICH”—Maureen O'Sullivan, Walter Pidgeon, and Edna Mae Oliver. There's nothing outstanding about this production. It concerns a
girl who inherits a New York newspaper and then falls out with the managing editor because he believes that newspapers
and women won’t mix.

Edwin Hodge Gets Master’s Degree

Edwin Hodge, an alumnus of Davidson, class of 1935, was awarded his master’s degree in chemistry from Syracuse University at
Syracuse, N.Y., last Monday. Since his graduation, he has been teaching at Syracuse and working for his M.A. degree. While
at Davidson, he was a member of several honorary scientific fraternities and was an outstanding student. Continuing his work in
the chemical field, he has contributed to several nationally known magazines, and in addition, is a member of Sigma XI,
professional honorary chemical society, the American Chemical Society, and Alpha Chi Sigma, national chemical fraternity.

Students
SUBSCRIPTION OFFER

I am enclosing check for ONE DOLLAR and a half ($1.50) for one year’s subscription to THE DAVIDSONIAN.

Name
Address
City

Alumni
I am enclosing check for ONE DOLLAR and a half ($1.50) for one year’s subscription to THE DAVIDSONIAN.
