Page Six THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, NOV. 24, 1937.

Your Film Report Card
By HENRY B. BAKER

(The following film ratings are based upon those of current magazines and the observations of the columnist. A—Excellent; B—Good; C—Fair;
D—Poor)

BABA GOES TO TOWN— Eddie Cantor, June Lang, Louise Hovick, Tony Martin, and Roland Young. The story of the Arabian
nights with a background of song and dance, and a lot of jokes on the part of the thieves and
horses. Rating: B

ANGEL— Marlene Dietrich, Herbert Marshall, and Melvyn Douglas. (Continued on Page Eight)

Here's a scene reminiscent of “cotton-picking” days on the old plantation, done in true southern style by “Sleepy” and Jack,
two pestiferous colored caddies who haunt the local golf courses. In case you don’t know these two ‘brilliant’ boys, that’s
Jack being snowed under by Sleepy, who is just about all in from the tremendous effort involved. This stunt was
originated by Prof. J. C. Pfohl with the idea of taking it to the Harvard game, where it was applauded
in spite of the wind that almost ruined the act.

LIVE, LOVE, AND LEARN— Robert Montgomery, Rosalind Russell, and Robert Benchley. A delightful comedy hit—in fact, it is one of
the best comedies of the year. The story is about a couple who is not so very good at living,
loving, or learning. Rosalind Russell is charming, and Robert Benchley is funny as usual. Rating: A

DANGER, LOVE AT WORK— Bennie Bartlett, Mary Boland, Ann Sothern, and Jack Haley. A comedy about a young lawyer who
gets involved with a crazy family. Rating: B

(Continued from Page Five)

Conference cross country meet on Saturday. Feeds were held at the fraternity house on Saturday and Sunday night.

Sigma Phi Epsilon— Most of the boys spent a quiet weekend on the campus. C. Sample, John Crabb, Bill Rader,
and Lilly White had an informal get-together in Charlotte Saturday night. Bogo Kunz spent the weekend in Chattanooga, Tenn. Wade
Lyon(s) traveled to Salisbury, while Doty remained on the campus. Rufus Plonk accompanied the team on its trip to Mars
Hill.

SIGMA UPSILON PROGRAM (Continued from Page 5)

A recess which was between the last two items on the program. Immediately following the feed, Wade Barrow, the president,
presided over the business part of the meeting.

EDITOR SPEAKS (Continued from Page Five)

Fred Smith, teacher of the journalism class, announced that its next regular meeting will be on Wednesday, November 24 at
7:30.

CAROLINA THEATRE Mooresville, N. C.

Thur.-Fri. Nov. 25-26 “Artists & Models” with Jack Benny - Ida Lupino - Gail Patrick

Mon.-Tues. Nov. 29-30 “Stella Dallas” with Barbara Stanwyck — John Boles

J. K. HAMPTON Davidson, N. C. PHONE 193

Radio Supplies Groceries Hardware DeLuxe Ice Cream M. H. GOODRUM & CO. DAVIDSON, N. C. Mooresville, N. C. Phone 56

SOUTHERN 5c & 10c Store M. P. Henderson Davidson, N. C.

FUNNYMAN DISCARDS PREDICTION (Continued from Page 5)

“The most outstanding picture I have seen is ‘The Awful Truth,’ and it will be the outstanding picture of 1938!”
At being asked his views on the present administration, he said: “I'm too busy making a living to think of
politics, but I did vote for Roosevelt.” Asked if he had any intention of retiring, he replied: “I like the
classical stuff.” Apparently, he seemed to know little about either of the dances, and has never done either.any time soon,
he remarked, "Ha! I'll retire when my beard gets down to my knees!" Mr. Ates is extremely clean-shaven. Flying, hunting,
and fishing are his main hobbies, and, he says, since he is not married, he is free to have a
good time. He flatly refused to give any points for an ideal girl. Although he seldom goes to the movies,
and he has never seen some of the stars on the screen, he emphatically made this clear: "Nope," he said
shortly, but with a twinkle in his eye added, "I was single, married, divorced, and now I'm on the loose
again."

Family Thanksgiving Dinner
CITY CAFE & DINING ROOM
"WHERE FRIENDS MEET TO EAT"
SPENSER BROS.
MOORESVILLE, N. C.

Copyright 1937, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.

Algerian Graduate Travels Extensively In Europe

Joe Dees, who graduated from Davidson College in 1936, is now teaching English in a college in Setif, Algeria. In
a recent letter from Joe's father, Mr. Rigdon Dees of Greensboro, a great deal of interesting information about Joe was
given. During the summer he traveled extensively through Germany and other European countries and finally into Paris where he enrolled
at University Union. Through his connection with this university, he was offered two teaching positions, one in France and one
in Algeria, the latter of which he accepted. The name of the college at which he is teaching is College
Colonial, and it is located in Setif, Algeria. About 650 students, both boys and girls, attend the school. Joe writes
of many interesting and varied incidents in the school where no English is spoken except in the English department of
which he is a member.

Joe Dees, ’36, Teaches

I think Kay Kayser

CONDUCTS RALLY
(Continued from Page 3)

Hawthorne Lane Methodist Church came in a body. The plans of the Charlotte Y. M. C. A. for its youth
work during the coming winter are very extensive, including several of these monthly youth rallies, and a religious survey in
the high schools of Charlotte in the near future. The “Y” is also planning to launch a movement to interest
the young people in their go-to-church campaign, set for December.

QUESTION OF THE WEEK
(Continued from Page 3)

Gil Palmer, Senior:
Dorsey can thank Tommy because he can swing the hot ones and make the smooth ones sweet. If we couldn't
get Dorsey, Hal Kemp would be best because of their unique arrangements and individuality in styles.

CHECK SENT TO ANNUITY
(Continued from Page 3)

The chairman of Church Work is responsible for the promotion of the relations between the local Presbyterian Church and the
student body. He said that for the past several years this work had been rather neglected but that he intended
to put forward some plan of action on this matter in the near future.

Imagine These Three Together! It’s the most delightful comedy hit!

MONTGOMERY
ROSALIND

Welcome Students...
BEFORE AND AFTER THE GAME
Visit...
LITTLE PEP SANDWICH SHOP
115 West Fourth Street
DELMONICO GRILL
301 West Trade St.
Charlotte, N. C.

Welcome...
LADIES OF DAVIDSON
Charlotte’s Finest Entertainment!
ALL NEXT WEEK
Darlyn Beauty Shop
Thanksgiving Specials!
MOORESVILLE, N. C.

Notice the pure white cigarette paper... notice how every Chesterfield is like every other Chesterfield—the same size and every one
round, firm, and well-filled. Notice when you smoke one how Chesterfields are milder and how different they taste. That’s due
to the careful way Chesterfield tobaccos are aged and blended. Mild ripe tobaccos and pure cigarette paper... that’s why they’re
MILDER, why they TASTE BETTER.

Chesterfield
they’ll give you MORE PLEASURE
