WEDNESDAY, MARCH 24, 1937 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Five

‘STUD’ STORE GROWS IN SIZE AND SALES
Sales For the Current Year Almost Double Those of Last Year
PROFITS TO LOAN FUND
Store Established About 12 Years Ago

The Student Store has been steadily growing in importance since its establishment on the Davidson campus until now the business done reaches an appalling figure. It was announced by the managers that this year’s sales to date approximately double those of last year.

The store was established about twelve years ago in a vacant room in Rumple dormitory. It was completely owned and operated by several students, and worked on the honor system. This went on for about two years, then the store was abolished by the executive committee because of a serious mix-up in finances.

The next year the store was moved into the building which it occupies at present. One half of the building was used for the sales while the other half was occupied by the manager of the store. The managers now work on a salary plan, and all money made by the store goes into the student loan fund. The established fund was to be consolidated at such time as there was enough to purchase a swimming pool for the students, but it is hoped now that pool will come from another source.

Each year the managers are elected by a committee composed of the college treasurer, college auditor, president of the student body, representative from the Student Athletic Association, and a student councilman. There are two managers at present, Stuart Barnes and Hal Overton, and fourteen or fifteen clerks. The enormous business done is exemplified by the fact that 645 cases of Coca-Cola were sold during the 1936 year.

‘BUCK’ CURRIE CLOSES Y’ SERVICES SUNDAY
Sunday Vespers Last in “Living With Christ as Pattern” Series
‘CALVARY TRUE WEALTH’
Explains Life’s Law of Vicarious Sacrifice

Reverend “Buck” Currie concluded his stay in Davidson Sunday evening by preaching at vespers. At this time Rev. Currie gave the final sermon in a series entitled, “Learning to Live from the Pattern which Christ Taught Men.” The subject upon which the minister spoke was “Calvary,” and he chose his text from the 23rd chapter of Luke. “And when they came to a place called Calvary, they crucified Him.”

Rev. Currie began his sermon by asking the congregation: “Why do we sing of Calvary?” After all, he explained, the hill upon which Christ died was “a place of the skull,” a slaughterpen, a place where men were punished for their crimes and suffered the worldly penalty of crucifixion. Yet from Calvary, this bare, lonely, tragic spot, there came the world’s greatest and truest wealth. Here Christ, the Son of God, sacrificed himself that we might be saved and our lives enriched. Christ became poor, humbled himself before the vulgar mob, that we through his poverty might be rich.

Dr. Currie said that one of God's most important laws is the law of vicarious sacrifices, which states “Nothing is rich, unless something else is poor.” In nature, valleys are fertile at the expense of bare, rocky hillsides from which all soil has been washed by storm and rain. Men attain brilliant intellect through sweat and blood. Our liberties are the result of years of toil and sacrificing the lives of thousands of men. David Livingston is an example of a man who sacrificed much for others, and thereby enriched the lives of many African natives in bringing to them the word of God. He bore his Calvary.

We today can name our own Calvary, that thing for which we will sacrifice, and give our lives to. We can enrich something, whether it be our family, our business, or the kingdom of God. If we choose the right valley to enrich, thus will the (Continued on Page 6)

NOSE CLUB TO LOSE BIG MEN
Durham, Ficklen, Aycock, Newbolt, Lee, Tice, and Reinhardt To Be Left
HILL IS CHIEF BIG NOSE
Hunter, Sugg, Hill and Breeden Will Graduate

One of the latest Davidson traditions becomes smaller in the eyes of the student body as Joe Hunter, Harold Sugg, Noze (Snozz) Hill, and Tom Breeden receive their sheep skins. Professor F. K. Fleagle, faculty advisor to the senior group, will miss these outstanding gentlemen next year.

Joe Hunter, the boy with the rounded big snoz, takes care of the sophisticated type of snout. And there is Harold Sugg, a proboscis of the flaming red variety. He, too, powders his nose, as the winter’s sun rays sizzle it into a glowing red ember. Hill, Grandpa and chief marshal, has a flambeau, which protrudes into all kinds of mischief. He reigns supreme with no Supreme Court to intrude into his rights, as Chief Big Nose. Tom Snozz with his aristocratic South Carolina protector interfering with his roommate’s Charlotte affairs, turns his head in a half arc to view small objects as the Chambers building.

But Bull Durham, George Ficklen, Dick Aycock, Dave Newbold, Jack Lee, John Tice and Jim Reinhardt still remain to battle for the NOSE CLUB which sees all, hears all, knows all. Noses used to blush when they were embarrassed, now they are embarrassed when they blush. Gone is Modesty!

QUADRANGLERS CLUB SELECTS OFFICERS
Mebane, Goldiere, and Cumming Are Officers

The Quadranglers’ Club held its last meeting on March 11 and elected officers for next year at this time. The meeting was held in the faculty room in Chambers building. The members selected Professor W. N. Mebane for their next president, and Dr. A. V. Goldiere will serve as vice-president. Dr. W. P. Cumming was chosen for secretary-treasurer.

The present officers of the club, who will be succeeded by these newly elected, are: Dr. C. K. Brown, president; Prof. W. N. Mebane, vice-president; and Prof. Frontis Johnson, secretary-treasurer. The members of the club were entertained by Mr. Norman W. Shepard and Coach Gene McEver who showed action pictures of the major football games during the past season.

Wassermann Test Given At Infirmary

Dr. J. Wilson MacConnell, college physician, announced that the Student Health Service is co-operating with the U. S. Public Health Service in its campaign against Syphilis, and that free blood examinations will be offered to all college students and college employees. The U. S. Public Health Service under the direction of General Parran is making an extended campaign to completely eliminate the dreaded disease. Thus far several examinations have been given but not a single case has been found among the college students or employees.

FORMER WILDCAT PITCHERS

Pictured above are three Davidson stars of bygone days as they met on the campus last week to swap old tales. They are, (left to right): “BUCK” CURRIE, leader of Y. M. C. A. Spring Services last week; NORMAN W. SHEPARD, director of athletics at Davidson now; and F. W. HENGEVELD, Registrar of the College.

Junior Speaking again brought the light laughter and chatter of beautiful, exciting girls to the abodes of the Greeks. A host of young ladies from near and far, from schools and hometowns were entertained by admiring members of all fraternities. Bowery Ball will be the next big social event to draw the fairer sex to the campus.

Pi Kappa Alpha

Girls who were guests at the house over the weekend included: Dot Happe, Anne Purnell, Rose Willingham, Ruth Anderson, Wade Wilkinson, Melville Hobbs, Mary McBrayer, Caddie Willis, Marjorie Blease, Betsy Springer, Brooksie Folger, and Jean Johnson. Brothers Charlie Hamrick, Charles Harris, Bill Archer, Bill Moore, and Joe Sherrill, and Wesley Walker, XI Chapter, and Whitten Scholtz, Alpha Epsilon Chapter, were all guests over the weekend.

Pi Kappa Phi

Girls who were visitors to the house over the weekend included: Mary Lib Moore, Mickey Mason, Betty McCall, Croom Merrill, Jones Giddy Lucas, Lois Fetner, Peggy Erwin, Thomasine Grayson, Louise McDonald, Betsy Meels. Mrs. P. H. Arrowsmith honored the chapter with a visit. Other men guests were: Dub Cameron of Florence; Mitchell Arrowsmith, U. S. C., and Wesley Walker, U. S. C.

Phi Delta Theta

Girls at the house over the weekend included: Ruth Whalin, Marian Galloway, Doris Gambrell, Zoe Strawn and Susie Clardy. John McGeachy of Tryon, was pledged last week. Alumni visitors over the weekend included: Brothers Dick LeGrand, Paul Arrowood and John Partridge. Mr. and Mrs. Warren Ludlam, of Meridian, Miss., are visiting their son, Warren Ludlam, Jr. The brothers of the chapter spent an enjoyable weekend at dances.

Kappa Sigma

House visitors included: Brothers Morrison, Sauvain, Pharr and Summerell of Beta Upsilon. Girls who visited the chapter over the weekend for the dances included: Ethel McClaurin, Kitty Hill, Virginia Howard, Harriett Boyd, “Cutie” Lindsey, Lillian Hayes, Ellen Moore, Meredith Holdely, Sarah Finger and Hilda Walker. Most of the brothers attended the Junior Speaking dances over the weekend.

Sigma Phi Epsilon

Alumni who visitedThe chapter over the weekend included: Jack Lipstrue and Wiley Bradley. Girls who were houseguests over the weekend and attended the dances included: Frances Pharr, Louis Davies, Jane Ellen Taylor, Teeny Cook, Dot Melchor, Brownie Rendleton, Charlotte McAden, and Red Campbell. John Doty went to Rock Hill and came to Jeff Moore this weekend.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon
Girls who visited the chapter for the dances included: Frances Steele, Mary McCormic, Sally Jordan, Dot Ward, Lib Betty Shull, Ann Alice Wright Murphy, and Betty Harper. A banquet was held in the S. and W. Cafeteria after the afternoon dance. Brothers John Gammon, Efird, Jennie Douglas, and Colin Monroe of Duke Medical College visited the chapter during the weekend.

Kappa Alpha
Alumni who visited the chapter over the weekend included: Harris, Tom Downie, Fred McFail, Reg Lorenzo, and “Buck” Currie. The chapter enjoyed a feed Sunday night. Girls who visited the chapter over the weekend were: Mary Lib Sanders, Kitty Foster, Billie and Johnnie Fulton, and Sue Batte.

Beta Theta Pi
Girls who visited the chapter over the weekend included: Nell Abbott, Chic Barringer, Hannah Knowlton, Ann Pease, and Marie Niekirk. The chapter will have new furniture put in during the spring holidays. Officers elected at the last meeting are as follows: President, John Hall; Vice-President, Harry McLaughlin; Pan-Hellenic, Jim Terry; and Treasurer, Tom Abbott.

Phi Gamma Delta
Most of the brothers took in the dances over the weekend. They were headed by Lawrence Reid. Girls who attended the dances and visited the brothers included: Happy James, Jane Wiley, Willamina Monroe, and Marjorie Pie. Brothers Port, Kiesewetter, and Sugg are on an extended tour of the northern states and will continue through the spring holidays.

(Continued on Page 6)

LOST!
A valuable pearl-handle knife was left at the post office last Monday afternoon. The knife was rather unusual in that it was a combination pair of scissors, had two blades, a button hook, nail file, cigar holder, and an awl. Its value lies in the fact that it is a keepsake of the owner. If anyone finds this, please return it to WILBUR EDWARDS, President of the Student Body.

FROSH GOLFERS TO HOLD TOURNAMENT
Competition Will Be Held on Carolina Golf Course In Charlotte

Kitten linksmen are swinging away at the tee-off and practicing those long putts on Davidson's course to get in trim for the 36-hole tournament, which will come up soon after the close of spring holidays. The tournament is planned to start Monday, April 5, and weather permitting, will be finished Saturday, April 10, although it may lapse over into another week and not close until Wednesday, April 14. The tournament will be played at the Carolina Golf Course in Charlotte. The top five will be selected for the team. Four of them will receive numerals for their golfing efforts. Competition in the tournament will be keen as all eight aspirants for the team look like good prospects. The team’s schedule is incomplete as yet. They have a match arranged with Oak Ridge and plan to arrange matches with Salisbury, Winston-Salem, and Greensboro high schools. The golf team will finance all trips this spring. The freshman candidates are in charge of Charlie Ross, varsity letterman. The eight contenders are Bill Burch, George Coates, Jim Cooper, Tom Crichton, Dick Henning, Gales McClintock, Charlie Pegram, and John Throupe.

M. H. GOODRUM & CO.
DRY GOODS GROCERIES RADIO SUPPLIES HARDWARE
Zenith & RCA Radios
CARS FOR RENT
M. P. Henderson
GULF GAS & OIL

PATRONIZE DAVIDSON’S 5c & 10c STORE
SOUTHERN 5 & 10c Store
DESK LAMPS

Explains to Reporter
Mellen conversed in an affable and mild-mannered tone about the beginning of his orchestra and expressed his pleasure in playing for a set of Davidson dances. Mellen was well received by those who attended the set and his style of music making appealed to all who heard it. Mellen’s seeming youth astonished many. “The orchestra,” Mellen said, “is officially known as Melodies by Mellen and is formed as a corporation.” He went on to add that the band was first formed by himself, the first sax player, and the drummer while they were attending a high school in Pittsburgh in 1933. In all, ten members hail from Pittsburgh, the two trombone players coming from West Virginia. Most of the vocalizing is done by Mellen himself, aided somewhat by Gordon Morrison, the piano player. The theme song is “Each Star that Shines Above You.” The band boasts seven arrangers of its own, and they use strictly their own special arrangements. Queried as to his favorite dance orchestras, Mellen replied that Hal Kemp is his favorite band while he admires Andre Kostelanetz for his semi-classical swing style and Ted Fiorito for his fine arrangements. He considers “You’re Laughing at Me” to be the hit of the current season and picked “Star Dust” as his all-time favorite tune. Mellen seemed to think that sweet music was tops everywhere with a little more trend toward swing music in the north than in the south. Finishing up his tour in the south, Mellen will play at the Pika Ball in Raleigh, and in Hollins and Sweet Briar, and on April 12 the orchestra will go to Albany, N.Y. where they are to fill a new engagement at the Club Edgewood.

LIVELY DEBATE
(Continued from Page 3)

Before adjournment, the society discussed plans for inter-society debates with the Philanthropic Society. Treasurer Fitzhugh Dade made an impassioned plea by postcard to the members, requesting them to be prompt in paying their dues.

Because other people give her a hand, Roslyn Alcalay, an arts college sophomore at the University of Minnesota, has few financial difficulties. She earns her living by reading palms in one of the local hotels.

Norton’s Barber Shop
Expert Service
NORTON and CIDROAM Proprietors

White Drug Company
Sodas : Magazines : Candies : Stationery : Toiletries
“For Those Who Can Tell the Difference”

Good Printing Pays Good Profits
Printing indifferently done usually advertises a concern as one of the kind which does not consider the importance of the quality of its product.
ENVELOPES - BLOTTERS - TYPEWRITER LETTERS - VOICES - ENCLOSURES - BILL HEADS - LETTER HEADS
Have us place your printing on the same high standard as your goods. Call us 3-5727
STANDARD PRINTING CO.
117 Garland Court, Charlotte, N.C.