Page Six THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, OCT. 6, 1937

Littlefield Praises Use of Outline Study Helps

College Outlines, Once “Outlawed,” Are Now “Socially Accepted”

USED BY MOST COLLEGES

Fear of Their Use For “Cramming” Not Justified

JOURNALIST

New York, Oct. 6—College outlines, those “outlaw” study aids that were every professor's pet peeve when first introduced half a dozen years ago, are now “socially accepted” in the best educational circles, a survey made by A. W. Littlefield reveals. Practically all leading institutions, including Harvard, Johns Hopkins, Northwestern, Princeton, the University of Chicago, and Yale, are using these outlines to a lesser degree, Mr. Littlefield reported.

“The fear originally expressed by professors that students would rely on the outlines to carry them through at examination time has not been justified,” he said. “On the other hand, the outlines, by systematizing the work, have proved to be a valuable aid to students.”

Charles Dunnagan, president of the North Carolina Press Association, will preside at their convention to be held at N. C. State College in Raleigh, later in the month. Dunnagan is a senior at State and is business manager of The Technician.

TO THE EDITOR

AROUND TOWN

The Tuesday Club met in the American Legion Hut in Mooresville last week. At the meeting, Mesdames Malcolm Lockhart, L. A. Spearman, and R. de V. Williamson were initiated.

Mr. O. J. Thies spent last weekend in Montreat supervising the remodeling of their recently-purchased summer cottage.

GIGANTIC BLUE DEVILS DOWN FIGHTING ’CATS

(Continued from Page 4)

Baby Harriers Best in Years

Twenty-Two Boys Out For Team as Hopes Run High

With the exception of several brilliant runs by Lafferty and a spectacular touchdown drive in the final period, the ‘Cats were unable to withstand the powerful Blue Devil attack in the last half, and the Millionaire Methodists added four more six-pointers to make the final score 34-6.

The High School Chapel program last Friday morning was in charge of the eleventh grade. A short humorous pantomime was given by members of the grade.

WADE’S DEVILS AVERAGE BEST

Duke, starting its second team, won the toss and elected to receive. Williams kicked to McAfee who returned to his 40, but fumbled, and both teams resorted to kicking. Late in the quarter, Tipton spilled McAfee on the ‘Cats’ 25, but fumbled and the quarter ended with Davidson in possession of the ball on her 26.

The Tuesday Bridge Club was entertained at the home of Mrs. T. Stough. Mrs. Libby Rhett was the guest of honor at the function.

The Reverend Dr. and Mrs. Bob Alexander visited during the weekend at the home of Mr. and Mrs. J. R. Withers.

The Thelemite Club last week had a picnic at the Ramah hut. Miss Libby Rhett was the guest of honor.

The Book Lovers Club had a picnic on Friday evening at the home of Dr. and Mrs. Frazier Hood. This was the first open meeting since the summer.

Mr. Fred Fleagle and family have been visiting at the home of Mr. and Mrs. F. K. Fleagle recently.

The Kindergarten for the young children of the community will open next week.

Hopes are running high for one of the best frosh cross country teams in recent years. Practice started after the freshman cake race, which is held each year to find material for the freshman harrier squad. There are twenty-two boys out for the team.

Track Coach Heath Whittle said of the team: “Although the boys have been practicing only a few days, they look better than last year’s team. They show more promise.”

The complete schedule of meets has not been completed, but as now arranged, the team will see action here on October 23 with the Guilford College “B” team. There may be a possibility of a meet with another college later in the season.

SPEAKERS FOR FALL

(Continued from Page 3)

forces, spirit visions, spirit tappings, and spirit writings. The second part is an expose of the manner in which mediums work, mainly through the power of psychology.meet before on line. However, a moment later of suggestion, Mrs. Norman Shepard entertained the Wednesday Bridge Club at a luncheon in her home last week. The lecture series is given throughout all the year and consists of a number of different addresses on various interesting topics. As yet no further speakers have been secured.

LITERARY HALL
Freshman Football Schedule Is Severe (Continued from Page 5)

A custom which lapsed for the past few years will be revived during this session. President Harkey said that he had contacted the president of the society at Winthrop College, Rock Hill, S. C., and that they had agreed to hold a joint program. This program is held at Davidson with Winthrop students taking part and at Winthrop with Davidson students taking part. The Literary Society did not hold a meeting this week due to the remodeling work being carried on in the Eumenean hall.

FROSH ROCK NEW GYM (Continued from Page 5)

Led by the band, the group moved to the front of Chambers Building where Fred Dennis stressed the need of support from the sidelines. The inspiring fight yell and the singing of “O Davidson” was the final event of the evening.

PATRONIZE DAVIDSONIAN ADVERTISERS

We Have the Crosley XERVAC Come Down and See It
DAVIDSON BARBER SHOP

Distinctive Clothes for GENTLEMEN

Correctness, character, and individuality of style creation for which our custom garments have won wide recognition—invite the consideration of men to whom good dress means deep personal satisfaction. We will be happy to show you the smart new patterns for the current season and take your order for an individually tailored suit. Prices are moderate for high quality.

WILLIAMS & NICHOLSON
Kappa-Snappa Storrs-Schaefer Co.

THE PICTURES ALWAYS BEST
DAVIDSON THEATRE

Did this ever happen to you? Standing right next to the most attractive person you ever met, but you don’t know it until you are introduced... until you get acquainted. And you don’t know how much pleasure a cigarette can give until somebody offers you a Chesterfield. Certainly this is true: Chesterfields are refreshingly milder... they've got a taste that smokers like.