NOTED PREACHER TALKS IN CHAPEL FRIDAY MORNING

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA

Che Mavbidsonian

LIBERTAS

PAN-ENGAGES JAN GARBER FOR MID-WINTERS SET

HELLENIC COUNCIL

VOL. XXIV DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., JANUARY 20, 1937 NO. 15

AVON PLAYERS WILL PERFORM HERE SOON

Red and Black Masquers Get Shakespearian Troupe For February 3

MAKING TOUR OF SOUTH

Will Give “Merchant of Venice” on Stop Here

On February 3, the Red and Black Masquers are sponsoring The Avon Players who will present Shakespeare’s play “The Merchant
of Venice.” Production is under the direction of Joseph Selman who takes the part of Shylock. Mr. Selman has for
many years been prominent in the casts of New York successes and as stage director he has been none the
less prominent. He accomplishes the blending of dynamic force, color, and magnetism in his directing and acting.

Play At Colleges

The Avon Players have for the past seven years, been conducting a very successful tour of the south. They have
been enthusiastically received by many of our southern colleges and schools. Recently they have played at the University of Florida,
at Agnes Scott, at Winthrop, at Queens-Chicora, and at Centre College—and at all these institutions the Players have played to
capacity houses. The production has usually been presented at the various colleges in co-operation with the English departments and it
is very probable that the English department here will give credit for seeing the production. It is hoped that this
commendable performance will be well attended.

MOR APPROVES PROPOSED MEASURE

Amendment Affecting Freshman Adviser Passes This Morning

The newly proposed amendment to the constitution, pertaining to the election of the freshman adviser, was passed by the student
body in the voting held today in the chapel period. The amendment was passed by a vote of 371 to
13. The former amendment to the constitution, which was defeated by the vote of the student body January 8, pertained
to the election and duties of the freshman adviser, and to changing the name of the Court of Control.

That the student body would support the first part of the amendment, headed a committee which revised it and presented
it to the students as follows:

“Resolved: That the Student Body Constitution be so amended as to provide that:

“1. There shall be an adviser to the Freshman Class, whose duties shall be to serve as president of the
Freshman Class and to act in advisory capacity in co-operation with the Y. M. C. A. and the faculty.

“2. He shall be elected from the rising Senior Class, his election taking place immediately after the election of the
Senior Class officers. The Y. M. C. A. Cabinet, or a committee of the Y. M. C. A. Cabinet, shall
submit a list of nominations for the position. After this list is submitted the floor shall be open for further
nominations from the rising Senior Class.

“3. In case of absence or incapacity of the Freshman Adviser, the president of the Senior Class shall serve in
his position until that vacancy is filled. In case of permanent vacancy, it shall be his duty to cause the
Senior Class to elect a successor as soon as practical.”

The purpose of the above amendment is to help devise a better system of orientation and control which would aid
each freshman in acclimating himself to college life.

The committee on health at Mt. Holyoke College has issued this annual warning to students: Drink only cider that has
been boiled or pasteurized, and eat only fruit that has been thoroughly washed.

Harold Sugg, feeling

Rhodes Scholar

A letter, which was written by Carleton Chapman, ’35, Davidson Rhodes Scholar, will appear in forthcoming issues of “The Davidsonian”
upon college life at Oxford University England. The letter was received by a member of the student body.

PORTRAIT OF THIRD COLLEGE PRESIDENT IS GIFT TO LIBRARY

Picture of B. C. Shields, Composer of “O Davidson,” Secured By Library

LYRIC BY HAMILTON, ’19

Picture of Confederate Flags Given By U. D. C.

The Davidson College Library has recently come into possession of several new portraits and pictures pertaining to the history of
the college which should be of interest to the students and faculty.

Composer and Facsimile of “O Davidson”

B. Ernest Shields of the class of 1920, composed the music of “O Davidson” in 1917, while a student. His
photograph and a facsimile copy of the original composition have been secured by Professor Davidson for the proposed Davidson College
Room in the library. Mr. Shields is also the composer of the S. A. T. C. Blues, the Dream Girl
of Pi K.A. and other popular pieces. The author of the words for “O Davidson,” Mr. E. H. Hamilton, '19,
has not yet replied to a request for a photograph.

Portrait of the Third President

The Reverend Drury Lacy, D.D., third president of Davidson College has taken his place in the Library's hall of presidents.
This is the sixth oil painting of the College’s chief executives which has been received. The workmanship is of a
high order, being equalled, in the opinion of many, only by that of the portrait of President Martin. The gift
comes from President Ben Lacy of Union Seminary, Mrs. F. W. Van Wagener of New York, and Col. Thomas Osborne
of Hawaii. An effort is being made to secure portraits of all twelve of Davidson’s presidents.

Flags of the Confederacy

The General James H. Lane Chapter of the United Daughters of the Confederacy in Charlotte presented the library with an
interesting picture in color of the four flags of the Confederacy. This was done through the instrumentality of Mrs. N.
T. Smith. This chapter has previously given the College a handsome Confederate flag which is displayed in the library on
November 11 and on May 20. The appropriateness of these things to Davidson College is well summarized by a member
of the class of '38 who has written: “With one hundred years’ experience Davidson College represents what seems to me
to be the cultural and educational background of the real South.”

STUDENT BODY ADDRESSED BY BARNHOUSE

Subject of Chapel Address Friday Was “Standards Of Religion”

DR. JOHNSON PRESENT

Speaker Is Princeton Graduate, War Aviator

The Davidson student body had the privilege of hearing the Reverend Dr. Albert G. Barnhouse, pastor of Tenth Presbyterian Church
of Philadelphia, at the chapel exercises Friday morning. Dr. Albert Sidney Johnson, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Charlotte,
introduced Dr. Barnhouse who spoke on “Standards of Religion.”

Dr. Barnhouse developed the statement that God had made a standard; but because man failed to see it, he had
created his own by measuring himself with other men. Character can take a man to hell but not to heaven.
This is because the downward pull of sin in our nature is greater than character can pull against.

Life With God

He pointed out that in the eyes of God our relative positions in sin are so little separated that it
is infinitesimal to him. No man is so low that he cannot be saved, and none are good enough to
enter the heavenly kingdom except that they have faith in Jesus Christ. The entrance into Christianity is not a way
to a better life but into a new life—a life with God. Instead of looking on character as a root
to salvation, look at the cross of Christ and form a character on his. In this and this alone lies
salvation.

Dr. Barnhouse is a graduate of Princeton University and also the Princeton Theological Seminary. He was an aviator in the
World War, held a professorship at the University of Pennsylvania, and has been pastor of several of the large Presbyterian
churches.

Deputation Sent By “Y” On Regular Visits

The Davidson Y. M. C. A. sent out two deputations over the past week-end. These were the regular deputations to
the Charlotte Y. M. C. A. and to Shearer Chapel. Bud Gilmore and Heywood Hill went to the Charlotte Y.
M. C. A. Gilmore had charge of the older group, speaking to them on “Success,” while Hill spoke to the
younger group of the Y. M. C. A. Theodore Parker, Bill Manson, and Brad Reed had charge of the weekly
deputation to Shearer Chapel. The Christian Endeavor conducted by the deputation from Davidson takes the place of the church services
at Shearer Chapel every Sunday night. Parker spoke at Sunday School on the subject, “Living Waters.” All three men spoke
at the Christian Endeavor, where they talked on the subject of “Self-Denial.”

College To Sponsor Special Radio Series

The regular Davidson College radio programs will begin Monday, Feb. 8. They will be broadcast from the Chambers Building auditorium
from 10:30 until 11:00 o’clock over station WBT in Charlotte. These programs will continue throughout the spring. The first program
will feature the Davidson Symphonic Band. The Glee Club and the Salon Orchestra will be heard on other programs during
the year. Full schedules for the programs have not yet been made. It is planned to arrange the programs for
four weeks in advance and to send mimeographed sheets of them to interested listeners. This should increase the interest in
the programs and their importance. Later in the year there will be an additional program which will present brief dramatizations
of the history of the College. These programs will be a part of the Centennial Program. The time for these
programs has not been set as yet, but they will be near Commencement.

DAVIDSON LOOKS BACK ON SERIES OF EVENTS DURING YEAR OF 1936

Centennial Program Gets Under Way With Gift of New Stadium

IRON MEN SUCCESSFUL

Carleton Chapman Wins Rhodes Scholarship

The year 1936 was an eventful one here at Davidson, so why shouldn't we glance back to see what we
have achieved? We returned after Christmas to find Carleton Chapman elected as a Rhodes Scholar to Oxford University, the seventh
Davidson man to receive the honor.

Later, in the spring, Davidson was admitted into the Southern Conference, along with several other colleges. This fall saw the
“Iron Men” enter the field of conference football for the first time, to come out in sixth place in the
final ratings. The program, celebrating the college’s first hundred years ofbegan the construction of a stadium, the brothers and will
continue until the climax is reached in special commencement time this spring. Centennial celebrations mark years of service, with a
gift from Richardson and new ceremonies. Along the way, we have lost several friends: Dr. David H. Howard, Jr., professor
of mathematics and chemistry, and Coach J. W. Unger, who resigned from his post as wrestling coach last spring. Dr.
Howard died last spring after a long period of recurrent illnesses; Coach Unger was killed in an auto accident near
Mooresville early in June.

MOORESVILLE PASTOR TALKS ON EFFECT OF LITTLE THINGS IN LIFE
Rev. R. A. White, of First Presbyterian Church, Is Vesper Speaker

SELECTS DOUBLE TEXT
Says Jesus Christ Is Only Sure Foundation

“The little things in life may contribute to the success of a man; or they may produce his downfall,” stated
Rev. R. A. White of the First Presbyterian Church of Mooresville, who was the guest speaker at the regular vesper
service Sunday evening. The Scripture lesson for the service was the latter portion of the 10th chapter of St. Matthew,
beginning with the 13th verse. Rev. White chose as his text the 18th verse of the chapter: “And I say
also unto thee, That thou art Peter, and upon this rock I will build my church, and the gates of
hell shall not prevail against it.” For a companion text, he also used the third verse of the 11th Psalm:
“If the foundations be destroyed, what can the righteous do?”

The speaker continued by stating that we are encouraged by the little things which make for good in life; but
we should guard against the small things of an evil nature which, working quite unconsciously and unexpectedly to us, yet
very surely and constantly, will destroy the foundations of character. Little things are easily done and quickly forgotten and seem
to be of little importance; yet they gradually undermine all that is high and noble. What can we do? And
what is our hope? Foreseeing the questions, Rev. Mr. White said that we must awaken, inform ourselves, and strengthen what
of the good remains. “Youth cannot do this alone,” he continued. The solution is for youth and elders of the
generation to sum up all that is good and with it fight the evil forces. The foundation is already set;
the Christian religion based on Jesus Christ is a foundation that can never fail. Using Him and that for which
He stands as our foundation, we can build a new world on an old foundation.

NEW PUBLICATION IS STARTED IN ST. LOUIS
Word has been received at association headquarters that a new publication called “Collegiate Digest” was to begin publication in January
from St. Louis, Mo. This magazine has no connection with the “Collegiate Digest,” a weekly rotogravure section, published by the
association.

Dr. MacConnell Donates Rare Volume to Davidson Library
Presents Valuable Account of Lincoln’s International Position

Dr. John MacConnell, a physician from Wilson for the past 29 years, has donated to the Davidson College Library an
interesting and handsome volume of Lincolniana. The title of the work is “The Assassination of Abraham Lincoln, Late President of
the United States of America, and the Attempted Assassination of William H. Seward, Secretary of State, and Frederick W. Seward,
Assistant Secretary, on the Evening of the Fourteenth of April, 1865.” (Washington: Government Printing Office, 1867). The contents of this
rare and valuable volume are based upon messages written to the United States Department of State relative to Lincoln’s assassination.
There are over twelve hundred such messages coming from forty-seven independent nations.

Prof. Lilly Talks
Prof. Henry T. Lilly, chairman of the Library Committee, had this to say regarding Dr. MacConnell’s donation: “This volume of
tributes of the nations to Abraham Lincoln is only one of several hundred volumes which Dr. MacConnell has recently secured
and donated to our library. It so happens that this particular book is of unusual interest, in that it presents
material in full documentary form which is to be found nowhere else. Since only a very limited number of copies
were printed, designed for higher dignitaries or governments, very few are available. Dr. MacConnell obtained the volume recently from an
antiquarian in Baltimore, where he was attending a meeting of the American Medical Association, of which he is an active
member.

“In this gracious gift to our library, Dr. MacConnell once again evidences his long and loyal love for his Alma
Mater, which he has served so long and loyally in various ways.” The diversity of interests and talents to be
found in our college physician shows itself in the diversity of his achievements. Since coming to Davidson nearly thirty years
ago, he has...

(Continued on Page 4)

Popular Maestro
Pictured above is Jan Garber, “Idol of the Air-Lanes,” who has been signed for Davidson Mid-Winters by the Pan-Hellenic Council.

DR. LINGLE ATTENDS AMERICAN HISTORY ASSOCIATION MEET
Talks With History Professors From Other Colleges

TALKS WITH AUTHORS
Thousands Are Guests of Brown University for Day

During the Christmas week, Dr. T. W. Lingle, the European History professor, attended the three-day meeting of the American Historical
Association in Providence, Rhode Island. The program was very interesting, and the one thousand members who were present were the
guests of Brown University for a day, and they were also given lunch there. The most important part is the
association with men who are engaged in the same departments in other colleges and universities, and especially with the authors
of textbooks that are used in Davidson, or which are in the library. These men are very approachable and ready
for conversation. Dr. Carlton Hayes of Columbia, whose books on Modern European History are used universally, and Professor Bernadotte Schmidt
of the University of Chicago, are two American historians who have done the most research work and writing concerning the
causes of the World War. The American Historical Association publishes the American Historical Review, which is on file in the
library.

Annual Staff Labors To Compile Material
The editorial staff of Quips and Cranks has been having regular meetings for the past two weeks, working to get
the major part of the annual material in by February 1st. All class sections of the book are being made
up and lists of all organizations are being written. The snapshot section is being worked on, and all students having
any shots of campus life may turn them in if they wish. The photographer will be here again to take
some informal pictures and to complete the faculty pictures. John Abernethy, editor of Quips and Cranks, stated that the cover
for the annual has been made up. The Eumenean Hall, one of the oldest buildings on the campus, will be
pictured on the cover of this centennial edition of the yearbook. Those students who desire extra copies of the annual
must submit their orders to George Norfleet, Business Manager, before February 1st.

PAN-HELLENIC COUNCIL OFFERS MUSIC BY ‘GENIAL JAN’ GARBER FOR MID-WINTERS DANCE SET
Lew Palmer Will Be Featured As Leading Vocalist With Band

STUDENTS ARE PLEASED
Extra Tea Dance To Be Given Friday Afternoon

EXTRA! Extra! Jan Garber for Davidson’s 1937 Mid-Winters! Not a second-rate band as has been currently rumored among college circles,
but the one and only Jan Garber, “idol of the air lanes,” will furnish the music for the Pan-Hellenic dances
at the Charlotte Armory on Friday and Saturday, February 12 and 13. Ed Armfield, President of the Pan-Hellenic Council, in
a statement to the student body in chapel on Saturday morning, January 16, announced that contracts with the Music Corporation
of America and Jan Garber had been signed by the Council for the orchestra's appearance here.

Friday Tea Dance
He announced also that a fourth dance would be included in the Mid-Winters dance set: a tea dance at the
Armory on Friday evening, February 12. Jan Garber, who first came into prominence several years ago as a member of
Guy Lombardo’s Royal Canadians, organized his own orchestra and rose to nation-wide fame almost overnight while filling an engagement at
the Black Hawk Restaurant in Chicago. Since that time, he has been in constant demand all over the country and
has filled many successful engagements at the Trianon Ballroom in Chicago and at the Catalina Island Casino.

Lew Palmer Vocalist
His music is distinctive and renowned for its style, featuring vocal numbers by Lew Palmer. Long acclaimed as one of
the big “name bands” of the country, he is rated among the five leading musical organizations and is a perennial
favorite on many college campuses. The program of this set of dances, the peak of the collegiate social season, will
include a formal dance on Friday night, February 12, from ten until two o'clock, an informal dance on Saturday night,
February 13, from 8:30 till twelve, and two tea dances on Friday evening from five till seven and Saturday from
four until six o'clock. Many tickets have already been sold on a subscription plan which began in early October, but
announcements will be made later regarding the sale of other tickets.

DR. CRANE LECTURES ON LIFE AT MUTOTO
Talk Illustrated By Pictures Taken in the Belgian Congo Station

Dr. C. L. Crane gave an illustrated lecture Sunday night in the church when he projected slides made from pictures
that Dr. Worth had taken at the Mutoto Mission station in the Belgian Congo. These pictures showed the life and
work of the station. About one hundred and fifty people attended the lecture. The best-liked pictures were those of the
animals a hunting party had killed. Explaining one of a hippopotamus killed in a creek, he said that after shooting
the hippo, Dr. Worth had to fight off the alligators to get the body from the water, and then the
natives fought among themselves to settle the division of the meat. One view was of a tiger trap which was
baited with a young goat and automatically dropped a door behind the tiger when he entered. To prove the story,
there was another picture of the tiger’s skin. A genuine witch doctor was shown, but he had on ordinary clothes.
Wilder than the animals were the views of the wives of a dead chief in mourning.
