Page Four THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, MAY 5, 1937

WADE BARROW LEADS TRACK TEAM TO SIXTH STRAIGHT WIN

SPORTS AFIELD

GOLFERS TAKE SECOND PLACE IN NORTH CAROLINA STATE TOURNEY

Morris Leads Powerful Devil To State Crown With Sub-Par Score

STATE FINISHES THIRD

CATS WIN LF MEET

Ross Ties For Third Place in WEIGHT MAN Scoring Honors as the Wildcat linksmen show their strength in the North Carolina State tournament. Led by Ross, the Cats captured third place, trailing only to the powerful Blue Devils. Ross tied for third place in the meet with a score of 152. Charlie Ross was the third low scorer in the meet. Bill Snow, Davidson's No. 1 man, fired a total of 184 to follow in the dual scoring.

Duke's youthful golfers slammed the course to end with a 141, leading the field by ten strokes. Carolina’s DuPont Kirven finished second to Morris with a 151 total. Doug made the ordinary course a test.

The showing by the Cats again stamps them as one of the smallest. For two years, Shorty Bankhead has been the sparkplug of the team. Neal is a determining factor on the football and track teams. Dave Warden is a sophomore and has been outstanding as a tackle on the football team for the past season and racking up the points for the track team throwing the shot. He is a gym instructor, member of the “D” Club, and has been awarded a letter in football. Warden will be back next year to make a strong bid for a first-string berth on the football team. He hails from Johnson City, Tennessee. (Courtesy of The Charlotte Observer.)

Don't miss the track meet with Duke here Saturday. This Blue Devil team is really a classy outfit. A few weeks back, it tied Princeton. The Wildcats are not fooling around; they are going to show Duke that they have a track team here before the afternoon is over. I don’t want to jinx the team, but at the meet, they are going to show Duke what they have.

Davidson's varsity tennis team overwhelmed their opponents on its trip last week through the state. The Wildcats won one match while losing two. The win was over North Carolina State by the score of 5-4. The two losses were at the hands of Duke and Carolina.

The sophomore baseball team clinched the baseball crown last Saturday morning at Greensboro, when they whipped the high school team by the score of 16½ to 1½. Johnson pitched for the juniors with Cooper, McClintock, and Grosse not far behind. At the end of the regular series of class games, the juniors, the seniors, and the sophomores were tied for the lead. A regular series was run off with the sophomores emerging victorious.

The Davidson College varsity tennis team annexed another win Monday afternoon when they downed a strong team from Washington and Lee University by the score of 5-4. In the opening match, Carl Carlson of the Cats played a stellar game to down W. & L.'s No. 1 ranking man. The feature match of the day was between Reinhardt of Davidson and Gaines of W. & L. This match was finally won in the 44th game in favor of Reinhardt.

The feature match of the Y. M. C. A. pool tournament this week will be between “Bones” Woodward, seeded second, and Jim Armstrong, seeded number four. This match will be one of the semi-final matches. The other semi-final will be between the top seeds.By defeating Match of the Day, McMasters, Hartzog, and Pope won the match. The next match will be played between the winner of the Willie Martin-Marvin Pennington contest and the Reed Harman-"Shorty" Bankhead match. Martin defeated Pegram and Carlson and Kenney of the Cats by the score of 5-7, 6-1, 6-4. The scores for the match are as follows: Carlson (D) defeated Clements, 7-5, 6-2. Kenney (D) defeated Radcliffe, 6-1, 6-3. McCardell (W&L) defeated Boggs, 3-6, 10-8, 6-1. Reynolds (W&L) defeated Frampton, 6-1, 4-6, 6-0. Reinhardt (D) defeated Gaines, 6-4, 5-7, 12-10. Woodward (D) defeated Fischel, 7-5, 6-2. Armstrong conquered Newbold, Schabel, and Calhoun to reach the semi-finals, while Woodward defeated Harman, the dark horse of the tournament, who had taken Deaton, Pennington, Allison, and Clark into camp. The Davidson aggregation had a hard fight but finally won out, 5-4. The Duke netmen proved to be a little too strong for the Wildcats and nosed them out by the score of 6-3. The scores for this match are as follows: Hall (D) won over Kenney (DA) 6-4, 6-0; Gill (D) won over Carlson (Da) 2-6, 6-3, 6-2; Merchant (D) won over Frampton (Da) 3-6, 6-3, 6-0; Hulme (D) won over Boggs (Da) 8-6, 6-4; Reinhardt (Da) won over Beigh (D) 6-4, 8-6; Collins (D) won over Woodward (Da) 1-6, 6-4, 6-4; (Doubles) Kenny-Carlson (Da) won over Wall-Gill (D) 1-6, 6-4, 6-4; Doyle-Merchant (D) won over Boggs-Frampton (Da) 6-4, 6-1; Woodward-Reinhardt (Da) won over Hulme-Collins (D) 8-6, 6-3.

BOWLING! BILLIARDS! Rex Recreation and 20th Century Bowling Air-Conditioned Year Round.

QUEENS WATCH QUAKER

Catawba Also Takes Measure of Luckless Wildcat Baseballers

CONTESTS BOTH CLOSE

Guilford Gets Sixteen Hits Off Hicks

A scrappy Davidson nine lost a spirited "Queens Day" game to hard-hitting Guilford sluggers 7-5 on Richardson Field Tuesday. The Quakers took a one-point lead in the third inning after pounding out a run in the second and a burst of four runs in the third. The Cats scored three times in the third on a total of three hits. The Quakers went on to bring in two more runs in the fifth. A ninth-inning rally by the Cats brought them one more run, but they failed to cinch the game. With the bases loaded, Dickson went out on a grounder to second base, ending the game. Hicks, the Cat moundsman, allowed the visitors 16 hits and walked two. Davidson batters earned six bases on balls off Swain, the Quaker hurler. Soyles, the Quaker catcher, held hitting honors with four hits. Fox, left fielder for Guilford, led the scoring for Davidson with two runs. Neal, Rudisill, and Quick brought in one run apiece for the Cats. Lohr and Browning umpired the game.

Catawba Wins

The varsity nine was stopped, 12-7, by a powerful Catawba nine at Salisbury Saturday. Catawba gathered 14 hits off Steere. The Lairdmen mustered nine hits off the Davidson mound staff. They pounded in seven runs in the three closing periods. Davidson had seven runners stranded on bases, and Catawba had six left on bases. The Catawba hurlers allowed seven bases on balls, while Yearwood gave them four. Fuller, the leading Catawba hurler, struck out three men and put out four Davidson sluggers at the plate. Yearwood started on the mound, and Steere substituted for the last two innings.

DAVIDSON NINE

Clinkscales AGAINST HIGH SCORER

Wade Barrow counted sixteen points to lead the undefeated Cat trackmen to their sixth win of the season. Barrow took two firsts and many seconds. (Courtesy Charlotte Observer).

FURMAN FROSH DOWN KITTENS

Kitten Cindermen Come Out On the Short End By a Score of 80-37

THIRD STRAIGHT LOSS

Dorman of Furman is High Scorer of Meet

The Kitten Cindermen suffered their third straight setback in as many starts, here last Wednesday, April 28, to a fast Furman team. The Kittens came out on the short end of an 80-37 score. Results of the various events were: 100-yard dash, Wood (F), and Birmingham (D), time 10.3; 220-yard dash, Hood (F), Clinkscales (F), and Dorman (F), time 23.9; 440-yard dash, Lipscomb (F), McAlpine (D), and Fowler (F), time 55.6; 880-yard run, Ruppenrecht (F), Colvin (D), and Gammon (D), time 2:13.6; one-mile run, Kellogg (D), Gildersleeve (D), Gilliam (D), time 5.3; 120-yard high hurdles, Dorman (F), Wofford (F), and Harbin (D), time 17.4; 220-yard low hurdles, Wofford (F), Calhoun (D), time 29.6; high jump, Black (D), King (F), and Gammon (D), height 5' 7"; broad jump, King (F), and Birmingham (D), length 20' 1½"; pole vault, Wall (F), Gammon (D), height 9'. (Continued on Page 6)

EVERY BOTTLE UNTOUCHED BY HAND

CARS FOR RENT

415 South Tryon Street

FAUL & CRYMES, INC. SPORTING GOODS CHARLOTTE, N. C.

M. P. Henderson GULF GAS & OIL

THE HANDY FAMILY PACKAGE

IT BELONGS IN YOUR ICE-BOX AT HOME

Automatic machines fill sterilized bottles and seal them airtight. Nothing you eat or drink is more carefully protected. Buy Coca-Cola in the convenient 6-box from your dealer. ICE-COLD COCA-COLA IS EVERY PLACE ELSE.

TRACK TEAM WINS FURMAN IN SIXTH VICTORY

Score With A Score of 16 Points

SIXTH STRAIGHT WIN

Wing-footed Wade Barrow led the way with a total of 16 points, as the undefeated Davidson varsity tracksters registered their sixth victory of the current season by soundly trouncing Furman University, 96-34. The Cats took all but three first places in turning in their fourth Southern Conference victory. Next Saturday, the Cats take on what is probably the greatest track team ever turned out in the South when they tangle with Duke's Blue Devils. So far, Duke's record for this season is unmarred except for a tie with last year's national intercollegiate champions. Furman's All-Southern end, Bob King, turned in all of Furman's first places. Results: 100-yard dash—Wilson (D), Nolin (F), Faison (D)—10.3 seconds. 220-yard dash—Barrow (D), Wilson (D), Nolin (F)—23.3 seconds. 440-yard dash—Abbott (D), Hickman (D), Beasley (F)—53.6 seconds. 880-yard dash—Melton (D), Beasley (F), Poe (D)—2 minutes 7.8 seconds. One-mile run—Woodward (D), Marcell (D), Alston (F)—4 minutes 39.5 seconds. Two-mile run—Walker, Brown, Telford (all of Davidson)—10 minutes 20.9 seconds. 120 high hurdles—Barrow (D), Patrick (F), Wicker (D), disqualified—17.5 seconds. 220 hurdles—Wicker (D), Barrow (D), Patrick (F)—26.6 seconds. High jump—King (F), Melton (D), Wicker (D)—5 ft. 7 in. Broad jump—Boyd (D), Peabody (D), Melton (D)—20 ft. 1½ in. Pole vault—Sample and Peabody (D), Jones (D)—9 ft. Shot put—King (F), Babb (F), Crisp (D)—44 ft. 3 in. Discus—King (F), Babb (F), Williams (D)—130 ft. 1 in. Javelin—Johnson (D), Johnston (D), Cumbie (D)—165 ft. 10¼ in. Mile relay—Won by Davidson—Bixler, Abbott, Walker, and Hickman—3 minutes 36.7 seconds.

SHALL EVER COME BETWEEN YOU

Bless the parson, he must know his Varsity-Towns! He must know, too, that no one can resist being permanently infatuated with such smart clothes. They’re wedded to the ideal of giving America its smartest young men’s clothes. Come in and choose a style partner from a great new assortment. $27.50 to $35.00 SPORT SHOES $5.50 to $11.00

TATE-BROWN CO. College Shop—Third Floor