Page Six . THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, MARCH 10, 1937

Adventures of a Wildcat Told With Trite Trials of Davidson Students Presented in Novel Fashion

NAMES TO MAKE NEWS

Fable of Foolish Frolic Forms Funny Feature

Come within HERRING and list to the s-TORREY of a DAVIDSON student and WARREN-ing. Once, not so LONG ago, among the YOUNGBLOOD entering these HALL-s there appeared a picturesque neophyte GREEN-MAN with KERR-ly hair and GAW-dy clothes, he was PHARR from a PURDY picture when making his ent-RANSON college life. He seemed all in AL-BRIGHT and cap-ABELL, though, and everyone t-HOTT he would be a GOODMAN in his work. However, time passed and LINK-thened into weeks and months, faith in GREEN-MANN waned almost DAILEY. Before the first semester was far ad-VANCE-d, it DOWD-ful whether not he would fast. But though his edu-CADE-ional outlook was DIMM, he made LOWE-ds of FRIEND-s. It largely through their ef-FORT-s that he succeeded in passing the first year’s work.

Chapter Two

The sopho-MOORE year was CLINE-actic. Of course, GREEN-MANN con-TENNEY-d along the RHODES of conduct he had set up his first year. But they brought about his DOWNIE-fall, as shortly we shall see.

It all began one afternoon at a football GAMMON Charlotte. The Wild-CATES were meeting the KUNZ. Most of the Davidson BOYCE were attending, and along with them, GREEN-MANN.

Chapter Three

He sat among the visiting fans in the s-DADE-ium. Next to him sat a BEACH of a fellow — they became POWELL-s instantly. After the game as WELLS as their conversation had gone on for some time, the fellow remarked, “When I MALONE with you, I SUTTON-ly want to ask you something im-PORT-ant.” What WOOD this be, he wondered. But he to know. WINN the game was over, they WINTER a nearby restaurant. The recognizing the was soon new companion, waiter, ordered “RICE and HASH-AGEN,” and QUICK-ly lapsed into silence. He sullen oblivious of anyone's presence. GREEN-MANN studied the man. His face was CRABB-y, and seemed used to PAYNE, OW sibly to a harrowing BUSTLE-ing life. His HAND-s were small and nervous.

Conclusion

Suddenly the man came out of his sullen mood—his GLAD-DEN-ed and brightened. CRANE-ing his neck around, he brought his face close to GREEN-MANN. He whispered something. At the utterance GREEN-MANN's face seemed to FRIEZE. He didn't know what to make of his friend’s query. He NEWELL enough that politeness demanded that he do as much as possible what the man wished. But whether he could go all the way was a problem for his conscience. KNORR was he able easily to decide. This really hadn't expected anything quite so important from a casual acquaintance. He was a Davidson student and had to consider his standing there — what the boys would say. He knew that MAY-be a few of the fellows would even jump at a chance like this. But as for himself, he didn't know whether or not he should join in this dubious adventure. Finally, though... finally, he decided. “Yes,” he stated simply, “I’ll drive you back even though I do miss my Monday’s class.”

MORROW: A student who doesn't do SUGG-ood his first YEARWOOD do a great DIEHL better if he stayed on the HILL his second.

TWENTY PLAYERS (Continued from Page 4)

Varsity include Sam Hemphill, Charlie Parker, Parker Conner, Dick Lindsey, Eddie Steere, Swede Johnson, Johnny Armstrong, John Irving, Jim Terry, and Bill Manson.

TRYOUTS BEING HELD (Continued from Page 4)

Recent years but McClelland stated that with plenty of practice he expected this year’s foursome to equal the record of last year’s team.

Directory

Professors Attend Music Conference

Babcock, McDonald, Pfohl Meet With Music Educators

Davidson College was represented at the annual meeting of the Southern Conference for Music Educators, held in Columbia, S. C., last week, by Messrs. Babcock, McDonald, and Pfohl. At this meeting Prof. Paul Weaver of Cornell University presented a paper on “Music in the Liberal Arts College” which was of particular interest to the Davidson representatives present. For the past two years Prof. Pfohl, Director of Music at Davidson, has served as state chairman for North Carolina at the Southern Conference for Music Educators.

AMONG THE GREEKS (Continued from Page 3)

Lloyd Feuchtenberger was made reporter. McKnight traveled to his home in Shelby, while Harper Beall spent the weekend in Lenoir. Several of the brothers visited Charlotte as usual. John Allen is away on a debate trip to Florida.

Sigma Phi Epsilon— Tony Casali, Welch, W. Va. and Henry Cutchin, Whitakers, N. C., were initiated this week. The chapter was host at a party Saturday evening. Brothers Terrell Porter and John Pridgen went to Milledgeville, Ga., Wesley Coghill and Ed Cloyd visited their homes in Rocky Mount Raleigh. The chapter was glad to have Brother Hiram White back after a period of illness. Dan Iverson and John Tice spent the weekend in Hickory.

Sigma Phi Nuthin— The Brothers enjoyed a feed of hardtack and beans Saturday night. Evelyn Duhinkey of Pokahuntus, was the guest of Bro. C. C. Quick; and Wilhelmina Monroe, of Greenville, Miss., was the guest of Harpo Peabody.

SEIFERT WILL TRAVEL (Continued from Page 1)

Los Angeles. From Los Angeles they will go further south to Santa Monica with the intention of spending a couple of weeks with Mrs. Seifert’s father. Retracing their steps, they will visit Yosemite National Park. From Yosemite, Major and Mrs. Seifert and cargo will travel eastward to Salt Lake City, Denver, Colorado Springs and then on back to Chicago. The trip is expected to terminate after a period of approximately two months. Major Seifert was quick to say that it would be necessary for the government to voice its approval of this two-month leave. Major Seifert has been in Davidson for six years, and he is “set-up” to go to Porto Rico early next fall.

LINGLE SYMPATHIZES (Continued from Page 1)

Dr. Lingle also said that although he was utterly opposed to liquor traffic and had voted for prohibition every time he had an opportunity to do so, he was not willing to heap malediction on his friends who might think there was a better means of promoting temperance in North Carolina. This Advisory Committee, which Dr. Lingle is a member, is composed of well-known educators and citizens of North Carolina. Among other members of the committee besides Dr. Lingle are Governor Clyde R. Hoey, Dr. Frank Graham, Dr. W. P. Few, Dr. W. L. Poteat, and many other persons prominent in education in North Carolina.

CUNNINGHAM EXPLAINS (Continued from Page 1)

Last point was to obey God conscientiously. He illustrated this by the Hymn “Trust and Obey.” Dr. Cunningham closed his speech with a poem written by the English preacher Kennedy, who he said had the art of putting faith in a few words. The poem was called “Faith.”

APPALACHIAN STATE WINS (Continued from Page 4)

A time advantage of 3:40 over Renfro (M) in the 175 lb. class; and McFadyen won a time advantage of5:20 over Tulloch (M) in the Mr. L. D. Phillips Lectures Here Criticism of Composition and Lighting Furnishes Subject For Talk

Criticism of composition and lighting furnished a subject for Mr. L. D. Phillips, professional photographer of Charlotte, as he addressed the Photographic Club on Thursday, March 4. Mr. Phillips exhibited several of his own salon prints, pointing out the artistic schemes and effects. He also criticized several of the students’ prints, giving pointers for producing more pleasing results. Following this criticism Mr. Phillips answered numerous questions on many phases of his work.

The prints Mr. Phillips produced were all of two types: flowers and portraits. From careful grouping, arranging and illumination, he had been able to develop pictures extremely life-like and full of depth. Although all were 11x14 inches in size, he pointed out that each was a contact print, saying that even pictures of these types could afford no loss of detail resulting from enlarging.

The students’ work was largely that done by Graham Squires and John Abernethy, president and secretary, respectively, of the Photographic Club. Mr. Phillips stated that he considered the best inexpensive camera for the amateur to be some small machine possessing a ground glass for focusing. “Miniature cameras serve a purpose,” he said, “but through enlargement, and their negatives do have to be enlarged, much valuable detail is lost.”

Harvard, Yale and the University of Chicago have the largest endowment funds of any of the educational institutions in the United States. Harvard's fund totals $131,099,000.

Davidson Marker Is To Be Erected Soon

Dr. T. W. Lingle attended a meeting of the recently created Commission on Highway Historical Markers. This meeting is one of a long series of meetings the Commission has been holding to consider proposed markers and their locations. The Commission has decided and approved a marker which is to commemorate the founding of Davidson College. Dr. Lingle announced that this marker had now been molded and cast and that he expected it to reach here at an early date. It is proposed that the marker be placed near the highway adjacent to the old Eumenean Literary Hall. There are already some seventy-five markers erected all over the state and many more are up for approval.

REEL DOPE (Continued from Page 5)

and attempts to escape across the Canadian border.

Wed-Thur. March 17-18 Maid of Salem— A young “Maid of Salem,” Claudette Colbert, is branded a witch because she will not reveal the identity of her lover who is a political exile from Virginia, played by Fred MacMurray.

The “Hell Week" practice at Northwestern University has been severely circumscribed and restricted by resolution of the interfraternity council.

RED AND GRAY TEAMS TIE IN SCRIMMAGE

In a scrimmage game Saturday afternoon the Reds and Grays fought to a scoreless tie, each team holding the opposing eleven on its own goal line once. Dennis was the outstanding star of the game, making several brilliant runs. Bailey Williams, at end, was a stone wall in the Red’s defense mechanism. Lafferty also made several nice gains on jaunts through the Gray’s lines. Bob Abell looks like the prospective varsity center for next season’s Wildcat eleven. Hand, another sophomore, made some long punt returns. Nicholson looks good at end and is likely to see some varsity playing next year. Benfield is another end who looks good. Among the freshmen showing up well in practice are Rice at guard and Miller in the tackle slot.

MUSIC ORGANIZATIONS (Continued from Page 5)

“Voice to Heaven” sung by the Glee Club, and “The Lord’s Prayer” sung by the Quartette. The Orchestra will play “Sanctus from ‘St. Cecelia Mass,” and the Quartette will return to sing “God So Loved the World.” The last musical number will be a combined Glee Club and Orchestra selection, “In A Monastery Garden.”

SWEEPING THE CAMPUS (Continued from page 2)

black eye. Lillard made his mark in recent balcony scene. Lionhunter Elmore, P. Cooper, and Bob Gish entertaining and being entertained by Yoder on the bus. Walt Dickson and Wilbur Edwards to Mary Baldwin for extended visit. The hoi polloi, the great unwashed, will enjoy Junior Speakings until intermission. BEWARE THE IDE OF MARCH!

Former Major Leaguers Show Movie, Lecture On National Game

Two former big league baseball stars, Lew Fonseca and Roger Peckinpaugh, visited the Davidson College campus this past Monday. They are traveling on a tour through the south, sponsored by the American League, in which they show a baseball motion picture and give lectures on the art of playing good baseball. Monday after dinner they were scheduled to give their picture and lecture at the Davidson Theatre, but for some unexplained reason, the picture failed to get here. Monday afternoon, Coach Flake Laird persuaded Fonseca and Peckinpaugh to come out and watch our baseball team practice and to give them some advice on good playing. After a lengthy batting practice, in which the players received a few valuable tips, they gathered the group around first base and demonstrated the right way to steal bases. They advised the team to try stealing more on the pitcher rather than the catcher. Then both of them showed how to hook-slide on either side of the bag, and told them which side to slide on. Tuesday they are to go to Carolina, and to Wake Forest Wednesday. From there they swing north. Fonseca was a former manager of the White Sox and a star third baseman. Peckinpaugh managed Cleveland and was a classy shortstop. Both won the coveted “most valuable” award once.

DAVIDSON DEBATERS (Continued from Page 3)

business was carried on by corporations, that in 1918, the year the war ended, only one billion was paid out by corporations, while in the following year, 1919, eleven billions were paid out by corporations, thus strengthening the fact that there were no profits during the war.

The Florida team expressed their sincere appreciation for the cordial way in which they had been received on the Davidson campus, and expressed the hope that they would soon be able to entertain the Davidson team on their own campus.

GREEK CINDER MEET (Continued from Page 4)

jump, shot put, discus, javelin and half-mile relay. Last year the S. P. E.’s won the meet, led by Tice, Friberg and the Sample Brothers.

EUROPE 1937

Sail June 19 Saturnia Azores, Portugal, Gibraltar, Algiers, Sicily, Italy, Switzerland, Germany, Holland, Belgium, France, England. Sail July 30 S. S. Deutschland Business Management Commonwealth Tours Party Organized and Conducted By DR. G. B. WATTS TENTH SEASON For Reservations and Information, Address PROF. G. B. WATTS, Davidson, N. C.

unlimited, pure... burns without taste or odor... you can’t buy any better paper. The mild ripe tobaccos are aged two years or more... like fine wines are aged. Refreshingly milder... more pleasing taste and aroma... and best of all They Satisfy. Modern factories... spotlessly clean like your living room at home... that’s where Chesterfields are made. The Champagne Cigarette Paper is unlimited, pure... burns without taste or odor... you can’t buy any better paper. The mild ripe tobaccos are aged two years or more... like fine wines are aged. Refreshingly milder... more pleasing taste and aroma... and best of all They Satisfy. Modern factories... spotlessly clean like your living room at home... that’s where Chesterfields are made. The Champagne Cigarette Paper is cigarette Chesterfield a milder better-tasting Copyright 1937, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.