Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, APRIL 21, 1937 The Davidsonian Founded By the Class of 1915 1936 Member 1937 Associated
Collegiate Press Distributors of Collegiate Digest Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson” Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY Charlotte, North
Carolina SUBSCRIPTION RATES Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative 420 MADISON AVE New York, N.Y. CHICAGO - BOSTON - SAN FRANCISCO LOS ANGELES - PORTLAND -
SEATTLE Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879
Editor-in-Chief Business Manager DICK VOWLES R. H. ROBINSON EDITORIAL STAFF Ovid Bell Managing Editor Joe Calvin Managing Editor Wesley Coghill
Managing Editor Terrell Porter Managing Editor Perry Sloan Managing Editor Bill Marquess Sports Editor Owen Cooke Associate Editor Sam Cothran
Associate Editor Euclid McWhorter Associate Editor Art Editor Copy Reader BUSINESS STAFF Wilson Lowrance Circulation Manager Ralph Chandler Circulation Manager
Charles Moore Collection Manager Thomas McHarg Advertising Manager R. H. Robinson Business Manager Our doubts are traitors and make us
lose the good we oft might win, by fearing to attempt. Shakespeare “And we know that all things work together
for good to them that love God, to them who are the called according to His purpose.” Romans 8:28 Such
comments will be published, at the discretion of the staff, unless they be of such a radical nature as to
cause a too violent reaction from the readers. * * * * FRATERNITY QUESTIONNAIRE Since there has been a great
deal of discussion, both pro and con, concerning the fraternity question, we deem it worth discussing according to our beliefs.
In the first place, the questionnaire was not a brain-child of The Davidsonian staff, as many believe. From all appearances,
the questionnaire brings to light an old question, which students have been led to believe has been quiet for some
time. Not that there is any special evil in this, nor has any noticeable reaction occurred, but there seem to
be no outward symptoms of dissension between fraternity men and non-fraternity men. However, this is one man’s opinion, and may
not be yours. Secondly, the question “Do you think your fraternity is the best on campus?” is rather hazy. Neither
the answer “yes” or the answer “no” would be very conclusive proof of the real truth. If it is a
question of friendship, almost any fraternity man would answer a definite “yes.” It’s just human nature. If campus standing and
national standing are involved, the answer would vary. As a result, we cannot see the benefit or value of such
a questionnaire. IN YOUR VOTING... (The following excerpt is from the editorial page of The Emory Wheel) “Once again we
plead with you to vote with some intelligence. What is the use of electing your fraternity brother if he is
not going to do a good job after he is elected? Why not vote for the man that really de-
serves it?” IN MEMORIAM The Davidsonian pauses with the student body and many other friends to pay respects to the
memory of fellow students A. C. “Sky” Cline and Hoxie Thompson, who were so suddenly removed from the activity of
college life. The passing of these two men was an undoubted shock to the whole campus, and the loss will
indeed be felt. Both men were active on the hill, and beloved by their fellow students. Their potentialities were inestimable.
There is the consolation, however, that both men passed on without soil or blot of character even in the last
moment of life. We of The Davidsonian and the student body as a whole mourn the loss of these two,
and extend sincerest sympathies and condolence to the bereaved families. Sincere sympathies also to the parents and friends of B.
F. McLendon, Jr., former Davidson student, in their recent bereavement. RELICS OF NEY... Our thanks to Mr. Charles W. Allison,
‘04, for collecting the numerous interesting relics of Peter Stuart Ney and making Davidson College the depository for these. According
to President Lingle, they will be placed in the museum until a new fireproof library has been built. Since Ney
is so closely linked with the history of the College, we feel that the relics belong here. The interest of
these is even more enhanced by the Marshal Ney legend, which has been discussed even more lately since the publishing
of “Marshal Ney: A Dual Life.” And newspaperman LeGette Blythe’s book on this is excellent reading. COME CLEAN... Every year
at about this time in the spring, the Y.M.C.A. sends out deputations to the various high schools in the vicinity
to speak to the boys’ groups. Of all the “Y” activities, this is probably one of the most commendable and
effective in results. These “Come Clean Campaigns,” rather than attempting to remove existing evils, get at the very root before
many defects in character creep in. QUEENS STEPS OUT... Conservative ‘stag’ Davidson will look like a co-ed university when Charlotte’s
pick of pulchritude attends the campus in a mass. Opinion is varied as to the scheme and its success. We
rather wonder whether the student body as a whole is in favor of this. STUDENT OPINION... Since The Davidsonian is
a student body publication, the staff welcomes any letters or editorials expressing campus opinion. Within certain limits, any such comments
will be published, at the discretion of the staff, unless they be of such a radical nature as to cause
a too violent reaction from the readers. Campus Comments Some weeks ago there appeared in The Davidsonian an article to
the effect that Mr. Nibert McClure, Student Secretary here at Davidson, was resigning this office, to take up regular pastoral
duties. The student body at large, engrossed in affairs of their own lives, perhaps did not take time to get
a full realization of its meaning, and yet it will be only after he has left that we will come
to realize just what a loss Mac’s going will be. I should like to put into words now what I
know many men do feel and will feel more and more as time goes on. It is a hard task
to try to set forth Mac’s personality and character on paper. His is a many-sided existence; he can adapt himself
to any situation and any group, but throughout it all two things shine forth—his absolutely unselfish friendliness and his firm
and unbending devotion to his ideals, for himself and for Davidson men. Although Mac’s activities have been varied and intensive,
the very personal work among the students has been his chief interest. To the Freshman, coming here and being forced
to adapt himself to the strange new world that is Davidson, Mac is the one solid, dependable something—the one person
to whom he can carry his burdens and the one man who will always give helpful, unbiased advice—a true friend
and counselor to whom he can always turn and feel free to open his mind completely. To the average man
on the campus Mac is also a helpful friend. Men who have little or less of religion and know even
less about it have often turned to him in moments when they felt the need of something that would guide
and steady them through various kinds of crises. What has passed between them and Mac behind those doors at the
“Y” would probably surprise a great many of us, but we’ll never know, because Mac is one of those rare
men who knows how to keep things under his hat. But it is to those of us who have worked
with him and know him intimately that Mac seems greatest. Not only a true comrade and a wise counselor, he
is also a willing helper, always ready to lend a hand in doing a job or solving a problem. Just
this bit of appreciation then for the man who has given three years of his life in unselfish devotion and
service to furthering the teachings of his Master and in building real Christian Davidson gentlemen. Thanks, Mac, for all you’ve
done; may success attend you in the work you have chosen. If we who try to fill your shoes accomplish
half as much as you have we’ll consider our work well-done. —HAYWOOD HILL. P.S. I request Fred Dennis, President-elect of
the Athletic Association, to write the next Campus Comments. Make Davidson’s Centennial Program a Success! CAMPUS CAMERA By AL CADE
Spring is definitely here! The muscle-merchants stroll around in polo shirts displaying their physiques and the pantheistic boys spend their
Sunday afternoons gamboling on the green without benefit of jersey acquiring a pastel pink that will be a veddy pritty
tan on the beaches this summer. It is estimated that epistolary activities have just about doubled for, as some plagiaristic
wag put it, the young man’s fancy is turning to what the young woman has been thinking of all winter.
Sugg’s multi-colored proboscis has already begun to peel and peal and Overton already has a date for the Bowery. Inimitable
Tommy Dorsey’s arrangement of Mendelssohn’s “Spring Song” is heard almost as often as “Marie,” with Rimsky-Korsakov’s wild and exotic “Song
of India” assisting in the increased pulse-beat. Esquire contributes an article on “jiggling” and you can break out your white
brogues without being branded a Yank. Saddle-straps are on the upswing (a Good flash reports that there will be very
little change in men’s pockets this season). Honi soit qui mal y pense, and did you laugh slightly at the
unintentional double-entendre in the announcement concerning arrangements for Field Day next Tuesday when the Queens are our guests? Several hundred
lovely girls for you lucky men. The winds whisper lorelei songs to you at night. The lotus-eaters dream beneath the
budding trees that do fill the breeze with rare and magic perfume. Love is in bloom, and spring is here,
everybody! What are you going to do about it, tra la? About this course in public speaking. Are you or
aren’t you interested? It will not even be considered unless enough of you would sign up for it to justify
its existence. Few of us can make a decent public address but many of us will have to no matter
what activity we enter. It is a necessary requisite for success in any field. Triviana... How are the Goops progressing
these days? The yeast is still budding (more Spring) and Arthur Murray one, two, slide. An interested observer recommends Oscar
Wilde, Noel Coward, Bertrand Russell,And constant perusal of the advertisements for polishing up drawing room conversation. Metamorphosis of Goop into
Social Butterfly will be in evidence at Bowery Ball. The Goops are clamoring for tea at the dansants so they
can demonstrate balancing the cup on the knee, leaving both hands free. It is rumored that Gypsy Rose Lee has
been invited to lead the figure and that Steve Brodie will do a jack-knife from the crystal chandelier, all for
you cash customers. Bill MacIlwinen is the man of the week with an offer of a nine-month trip around the
world in August. Gil Palmer gets as many as seven letters in one day, and they aren't all bills. What
will Speedy Turner do when he is in Tampa and Jane Ellen is so very far away? Mark Lillard and
Pete McKnight were chief participants in a game last weekend. Moseley's Carnival date was very ungrateful. Dennis Myers’ cookie-tossing Busthead
hat was guaranteed to give him curly hair and George Norfleet’s tie was scented. Jelly McClelland, H. Lutz, Rev. Cooper,
and Bill McLean did not know their golf balls. Charlie Sears went to the game but no Bob Feller. Why
did Watson Street Bill Laws order Seven Up (takes the ouch out of grouch) at Greensboro? Cary Dowd getting a
flashlight for a date. Tom Henderson, Ray Pittman, Joe Calvin, Dick John, Troupe, George Richmond, Buddy Branton, Paul Marion, Paul
McGarrity, Dan McKeen, Darby, Stowe, Brent Greene, Reid Harmon, Bob An- ders, Dan Tson, Ken Pegram, Charlie Ross, and Bill
Cooper all at the Myers Park Club dance. And do you know why Queen Victoria said, “Madame, we are not
amused?" or words to that effect. And don't forget Frank Dailey Saturday at 11:00 P.M., over NBC's station WJZ.

DAVIDSON THEATER
Friday, April 23
Don't Tell the Wife
Guy Kibbee and Una Merkel furnish plenty of excitement by becoming involved in a gang of crooked stock manipulators.

Saturday, April 24
John Meade’s Woman
Francine Larrimore makes her screen debut opposite Edward Arnold in this fast-moving picture centered around a ruthless lumber baron. Excellent
support is given by George Bancroft and Gail Patrick.

Mon-Tues., April 26-27
Romeo and Juliet
Norma Shearer and Leslie Howard in one of the most outstanding pictures of the year. It closely follows the original
and immortal love story by Shakespeare.

Wednesday, April 28
Step Lively Jeeves
A fast-moving picture which has received a general rating of two stars. See this picture if you want plenty of
laughs.

VARSITY HAS RADIO
(Continued from Page 1)
The main point put forward by Vinson was that such legislation would regulate hours and wages, which would never be
suitable in our country. Each contestant was allowed six and one-half minutes, and on account of the lack of time,
there were no rebuttals. The Georgia Tech team had debated the Winthrop College team in Rock Hill, S.C., the night
before, and from Charlotte went to Wake Forest for a contest there. The radio appearance was the last debate for
the Davidson team for the current school year.

WORKERS WORLD
By JIM MORTON
John L. Lewis, demagogue to Wall Street, twirls and twitches today along the white-ways, a rumbling Goliath. Resembling a big
Belgium bulldog with his big black bushy eyebrows, even staunch Henry Ford dodges behind a contradiction in twenty-four hours. Undeniably
aiming at the Presidency in 1940, with unionism running riot in the government. We wonder if the wisdom of the
American people will permit the ruthless John L. to reign over the “melting pot of the Earth.”

DIMINUTIVE Malcolm Campbell of Davidson is Dr. Caleb Richmond Harding, affectionately known as “Dickie” by the students. Plans to climax
his fiftieth year of continuous teaching in 1938. He continues instructing students in the classical language with the zeal and
inspiration of a youthful scholar. Admired by strangers and loved by acquaintances, we sincerely hope for him a most successful
closing year.

QUEENS CHICKEN FARM...
April 27 will be a wonderful day with the Queens-Chi- chickens around Davidson fluttering the campus. “Cock of the Walk”
Joe Hunter stated, “A personal survey revealed that the flock has improved considerably over the past few years, with many
prize winners today,” continued Chairman Joe. “My greatest problem is to fetter their desires for nocturnal perambulations because they have
been cooped up so long.” The Beak, as you know, was selected to formulate plans for this auspicious get-together. “To
be chicken-hearted or not to be chicken-hearted is the question,” he surmised. With such a bevy of fine pullets coming
over, we look forward to a cackling good time on our campus.

Chicken-Notes
They were sitting in the moonlight
With their lips closely pressed
The old hen gave the signal
And the rooster went home.

TEA TIME...
“Dear tales will be told,” Harold Sugg sipped, referring to Open Day Plans which he and Mrs. N. T. Smith
are working on. “We wish all rooms on the first floor of each dormitory to be spic and span like
mine and Cherry Port's in Georgia,” said the Slugger. Reddog, potential politician and living originator of the phrase “Everybody’s fraternity
brother,” will not entertain the guest with his weak wit. Balancing books on his much-powdered protruding proboscis was suggested as
a means of letting him participate in the program. The brilliant scintillating debater and radical will keep notes of the
evening's activities in a prized knoll on the back of his head. (Note: He believes the knoll denotes intelligence and
will gladly let you feel it). “I would like to extend a special invitation to my three pet prejudices: 1.
blank freshmen; 2. blank blank Republicans; 3. blank blank blank Yankees,” said Reddog in closing. The erstwhile dirt dobber and
columnist believes “a good time will be had by all.”

Look-Alikes: Harold Grey Sugg and Reddy Kilowatt. Davidson teams have traveled to many places in eastern and central western parts
of the United States, carrying out their forensic program for the year.

DAPPER Wilbur Edwards, president of the student body, and “a remarkable fella.” Honest, super-conscientious, persevering, likeable. Awoo, awoo to Mary
Baldwin College and to his home in Charlotte for weekends. Students on the first floor of Georgia call him SLICK.
“Everything is arranged in detail,” stated Wilbur at Chapel in reference to the Queens-Davidson get-together. “A Thing.” Demosthenes of Davidson.
Plans to study law. Studious, hard-worker, clean-cut. J. C. Crowell offers the following: Casey Jones, Dictator, “Small Dictator, choo-choo, Good
Change,” blewp, blewp, ding ding.

Taken FREE from the Little Pep Refrigerator:
As you ramble through life, Brother
Whatever be your goal
Keep your eye upon the Doughnut
And not upon the hole.

McCLOY LECTURES ON
(Continued from Page 1)
He explained that the university proper is made up of about twenty-five colleges, similar to the manner in which our
union is made up of states; a student's college is the center of his learning, athletics, religious, and social life.
Mr. McCloy told the gathering that a student who is a good athlete, particularly in track or tennis, is much
more suitable for a Rhodes scholarship than a student who has taken no part in athletics. “Athletics furnish the quickest
means of making friends with the English,” he said. “They think much more highly of a good athlete than we
in America do.” The tutorial system, he explained, is the core of instruction at Oxford. There a man reads for
his degree more than he takes it; there are almost no prescribed courses of instruction or textbooks. Each week the
student meets his tutor and is assigned a paper to write during the following week; in the course of time,
the student's tutor becomes his guide and best friend. During the regular sessions, Dr. McCloy said, a student spends about
five hours a day in reading; however, during vacation, the student works from ten to twelve hours a day. All
this work, he explained, is in preparation for the final examinations taken usually at the end of the second or
third year of study. Upon passing these exams, the student receives his degree. “The training Oxford gives,” Dr. McCloy summarized,
“is unsurpassed in the world, but it must be supplemented by further study in America to enable the student to
receive the technical side of his education.” After his address, Dr. McCloy answered questions of those present concerning the degrees,
student life, and other details about Oxford.

PAGEANT MOVES FORWARD
(Continued from Page 1)
They may state their history, aims, or whatever else they may choose. The limits prevent any more than this maximum.
If this form of introduction is not received by May 15, the book committee will write the introduction for them.
An interesting feature in the Pageant will be the scenes showing meetings of the two literary societies during the 70s.
It is noteworthy that the parts of the members of the societies are to be taken by members of the
present Eumenean and Philanthropic Literary Societies. Both of these organizations requested that their members should do this, and it met
with the wholehearted approval of the faculty and Mr. Viehman.

CLINE AND THOMPSON
(Continued from Page 1)
They were immediately notified of the accident, and they rushed to Charlotte in order to be at his bedside. Doctors
in attendance stated Monday evening that he will soon be able to leave the hospital.

What of the Junior?
The senior was born for great things,
The sophomore born for small,
But no one has discovered
Why the freshman was born at all.
