Page Four THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, MAY 12, 1937

LAIRDMEN TO MEET DEACONS HERE FRIDAY AND SATURDAY

SPORT

TRACK TEAM MAKES SPLENDID SHOWING AGAINST BLUE DEVILS

BY BILL MARQUESS

Hats off to the track team for a magnificent showing against Duke! Led again by the versatile Wade Barrow and
Monroe Wicker, Pete Whittle’s hustlers outdid themselves to take from the renowned Dukes. Bailey Williams came within six feet of
the school record when he hurled the discus 132 feet to capture first place in the event. Bill Morse, the
Blue Devil's great two-miler, was ineligible to make the trip, thus cheating the spectators out of a chance to see
some real steppin’. Boo Walker cut another five seconds off his record in the two-mile. If he keeps that up,
it won't be long before he breaks minutes. Frank Brown did a nice piece of work in the same event
by beating out Koop of Duke for second place. Chet Chapman really hit the nail on the head Friday night
in the Stud Store when he predicted that the 'Cats would take forty points themselves to forty points ten on
the morrow.

Nice Going, Boys

While the track team was putting up such a scrap, the golfers threw a terrific scare into the Duke Camp
by coming within one stroke of tying the latter for first honors in the Southern Conference Tournament. Charlie Ross, sharpshooting
veteran who has been leading the team all year, was hindered by sickness from playing and this may have cost
Davidson the championship. Henson Maples came through well with a card of 150 to take third place in the individual
scoring.

Quick, Hand, and Steere Lead Cat Attack to Defeat State

DEFEAT SO. CAROLINA

Lost to University of North Carolina

Following a disastrous loss, Davidson varsity baseball team bounced back into the win column by handing out a 6-5 defeat
to the powerful North Carolina State Wolfpack. With Eddie Steere pitching his best game of the year, and with the
big bats of Captain Bill Quick and center-fielder “Tubby” Hand leading the way, the 'Cats jumped into the lead with
a three-run rally in the very first inning and were never headed thereafter. Davidson presented a lineup necessitated by the
absence of Lafferty and John, which functioned well. Kerr and Howard took places of the two absent regulars. With Davidson
in the van 6-3, State made a determined uprising but fell a run short in the ninth inning. Steere ended
the rally with a strikeout. The big bats of the 'Cats were too much for them. Clark had a perfect
day at the plate, hitting a homer, triple, and single in four trips. Hicks and Moyer also hit well.

North Carolina's baseballers rounded out an 8-1 victory over the Cats. Davidson was able to secure only five well-scattered hits
off the Carolina pitcher. Yearwood and Sommerville were hit hard by the Heels.

A La Ty Cobb

Shorty Bankhead pulled a fast one on State that reminds one of the antics of Ty Cobb. With the bases
loaded and one out, Hemphill came to bat in the third inning for Davidson. Laird signaled for the old squeeze
play and Sam laid a perfect bunt down the first base line. “Tubby” Hand scored from third and while State
was making a play for Hemphill at first, Bankhead rounded third and came all the way home. Wake Forest will
be here for two baseball games this week and it is not at all inconceivable that the 'Cats will take
one of them. Anyway, let’s all turn out and give the boys plenty of support from the grandstand.

KITTEN RACQUETEERS CRUSH PJC NETTERS

Although Handicapped By Absence of Three Regulars, Beat Presbyterians, 6-1

The Kitten netmen, holding a two-match winning record, won a 6-1 victory over PJC in a doubles match on Thursday.
The frosh swept all the singles, with Wood being the only one to meet heavy opposition. Incidentally, the chances are
promising for a baseball team next year. The Kitten outfit is hanging up one victory after another and boasts several
good players. Jim Akers, number six, is liable to beat somebody out of a job at first base and Hugh
Verner in the outfield has been hitting the ball at a great rate. Coach Laird is ready to welcome with
open arms anybody who can hit.

Watch Out For the Tar Heels

They really are going in for this tennis game in a big way at Carolina. Besides Ramsey Potts and Archie
Henderson, whom any comment would be superfluous, the team has the state championship of Pennsylvania and the holder of the
Chicago municipal title. The Canadian junior singles champ couldn’t even make the team and the worst part of it all
is that the whole crew will be back next year. The lad who won the North Carolina junior singles title
last year was unable to place any better than third on the freshman team.

In the doubles, Hunter and Schabel (D) defeated Simpson and Stansel 6-3, 4-6, 6-1; and McBryde (PJC) defeated Ezell and
Wood 6-4, 4-6, 6-1. The next contest for the Kitten court aces will be with Boyce High School Friday and
a game with Darlington School on Saturday.

Cat Baseballers Defeat Two Rivals During Week

As Jim Thomas Hurls Well Against Wingate

KITTEN BASEBALL FIELD CLICKS

Fitzgerald and Sparrow Lead Team at Bat

The Wildkitten baseballers continued their fine play by defeating Presbyterian Junior College, 8-1, and dropping a hard-fought 12-inning tussle to
the powerful Wingate team. Davidson’s own “Dizzy” Dave McClain backed up fine pitching by banging out three hits to lead
the Kittens to their fourth straight win at the expense of the P. J. C. nine. “Old Man” Sparrow and
Wally Fitzgerald hit well besides fielding their positions nicely. The Kittens continued their good play afield and were never threatened
by the fast-moving Scot nine.

The baby 'Cats were unable to hit Wingate’s ace pitcher and went down to defeat, 3-2, despite the fine hurling
of Jim Thomas. Wingate went into an early one-run lead, but this was short-lived as Verner, Kitten centerfielder, banged out
a long home-run to tie the score. The Kittens then proceeded to go into the lead as Thomas led the
attack. In the ninth inning with two out, an error let in the tying run for Wingate. In the last
half of the twelfth, Wingate finally got to Thomas for a brace of hits to win the game. Besides pitching
a splendid game, Thomas led the attack, getting half of his team’s hits. Verner’s home-run was also a highlight of
the Kitten attack.

TENNIS TOURNAMENT TOPPED BY SENIORS

Juniors Take Second Place By Wins Over Sophomores

Intra-mural tennis had its final matches rounded out as the Seniors racked up their third victory by a triumph over
the Juniors, and capped the inter-class tennis crown for the 1937 season. The Seniors won from the Freshmen on a
forfeit. They next encountered the Sophomore squad and delivered a 3-1 defeat to their opponents. Only singles matches were played
because the rain prevented any doubles play. The Seniors then took the Junior team by the score of 4-2. The
match which was played on Thursday gave the Seniors three out of the four singles matches and divided the doubles.
Charlie Crane led the Centennials to victories over the Juniors and Sophomores to give them the championship. Also on the
team were Tom Anderson, Bill Brown, and Charlie Elder.

The Juniors captured second place by rolling up two victories and losing their last match to the Senior champions. The
Juniors defeated the Sophomores by the score of 3-2 and won from the Freshmen by default. Lawrence Reid was captain
of the 1938 team which was composed of Jim Dorsett, Haywood Hill, and Bill Kiesewetter.

The Sophomores landed in third place with two defeats, from the Seniors and Juniors, and one victory over the Freshmen.
Sherrod Rice was captain of the sophomore team.

FAUL & CRYMES, INC.
SPORTING GOODS
415 South Tryon Street
CHARLOTTE, N. C.HIGH, WIDE, ’N’ HANDSOME

Here’s how Monroe Wicker looked as he topped the last high hurdle to take second place in that event against
Duke here Saturday. Just behind, in fourth place, is Wade Barrow, with whom Wicker split individual scoring honors for Davidson,
each scoring seven points. Wicker took a second in the high hurdles, a second in the 220 low hurdles, and
a third place in the high jump to play his usual stellar role as a mainstay of the team. Wicker
hails from Charlotte, and returns next year as a veteran of the cinder paths.

Golf Tournament

Henson Maples Cops Third Place in Southern Conference Meet

DUKE TAKES TOURNEY

John Morris Runs Off With Individual Honors

The Duke Blue Devils, paced by their sensational sophomore, Johnny Morris, won their third straight Southern Conference golf championship Saturday,
May 8, at Pinehurst with a team score of 631 for the 36-hole medal test. Davidson's crack golf team posted
a 630 to come within one shot of tying the Blue Devils. Johnny Morris shot a sparkling 69, three under
par over the No. 2 championship course, and then added a 73 for a score of 142 to run away
with individual honors. Following Morris was William Zimmerman, a sophomore at Virginia Military Institute, who posted a 70 in the
morning but slipped back to 77 in the afternoon to finish five strokes behind the winner with a 147.

Maples Stars

Henson Maples of Davidson played consistently good golf to place third. Maples posted a 74-76 for a total score of
150 to finish eight strokes behind Morris and three behind Zimmerman. Following Maples for Davidson was Bill Snow, who shot
an 83 in the morning play and followed this with an excellent 70 to post a score of 153. Snow's
sensational finish could not overcome his poor start. Ray Pittman with a 161 and Jimmy Westall with a 168 were
the others who played for Davidson. The Duke champions were composed of Morris, C. Glagola who had a 161, W.
Dupree with a 160, and G. Miller who posted a 168.

End Season

The completion of this tournament closes an unusually successful season for the Wildcats. This was the third tournament in which
they have competed, having finished fifth in the Southeastern Intercollegiate tournament and second in the Southern Conference tournament.

JUNIORS TAKE GOLF TOURNEY

Blast Through All Opponents To Win Intra-Mural Golf Tournament

The Junior golf aces overwhelmed the Senior linksmen by 8 1-2 to 1-2 to win the links championship at an
intra-mural meet. The Juniors opened the tournament with a 2 to 1 win over the Sophomores. The strong Frosh golfers
next fell to them by 3-0 in a nine-hole meet played by two-man teams on Thursday, May 6. Nicholson, shooting
39, scored an easy 1-0 victory over Henning. Faison, low man for the meet, shot 35 and defeated Schabel, who
shot a 45. The deciding 18-hole match with the Seniors was played on the Myers Park Country Club golf course
in Charlotte Monday. The Juniors won a decisive victory with all contestants shooting low scores. Faison shot a 75 and
defeated Carlson, who shot a 79, by a score of 3-0. Nicholson shot an 80 and won 2 1-2 to
1-2 over Norfleet, who shot an 82. In the foursome play, Faison-Nicholson defeated Carlson-Norfleet, 3-0. Best ball for the Juniors
was 73; best ball for the Seniors was 77.

Seniors Make Comeback

The defeated Seniors, now in third place, were beaten by the Freshmen in their first meet. They came back strong,
however, and met the Sophomores, winning 2 1-2 to 1-2 in a nine-hole match on Thursday, May 6. Harrison, sophomore,
and Norfleet, senior, divided honors 1-2 to 1-2 in the individual play. Armfield scored a 1-0 win over Edwards. In
the foursome play, the seniors won 1 to 0. The Sophomores will wind up the tourney in a match with
the Freshmen some time this week, which will decide the lower three places.

Davidson Cindermen Lose to Powerful Duke Team

Kappa Sigs and Betas Beaten in Semi-Final Round of Tourney

TICE HURLS FOR SPE

Phi Gams Win Convincing Victory Over Betas

The intra-fraternity softball tournament has progressed rapidly in the past week. Only one game was left to play, that being
the Phi Gam-Sig Ep, as the paper went to press. In the first game, the Phi Delts spanked the Pikas
9-8 in an interesting game. A rally by the Pikas in the 7th inning fell short by one run, giving
the Phi Delts a one-run margin. On the same afternoon, the Kappa Sigs swamped the KA’s to the tune of
10-3. The Kappa Sigs led throughout the contest and won easily. The Phi Gams spanked a strong SAE team 10-2
on the following afternoon. George Jones hit for the circuit for the Phi Gams. Next, the Sig Ep team whipped
a spirited Phi Kappa Phi team, 7-5. A pitchers’ battle between Tice of the SPE’s and Hunter for the Phi
Kappa Pi's featured the game. Batteries for the game were, (Sig Ep) Tice and Casali, (Phi Kappa Pi) Hunter and
Wilson. In the second round, the Betas overcame a lead by a ninth-inning rally and whipped the Phi Delts, 10-9.
Cathey hit a homer for the winners. In the semi-finals, the Phi Gams licked the Betas by an overwhelming score
of 22-5. The Phi Gams took the lead in the first inning and were never threatened from then on. Reid
and Brewer hit for the circuit for the Phi Gams. In the last game played, the Sig Eps spanked the
Kappa Sigs, 11-7. An uprising in the sixth netted the Sig Eps all their runs. The feature of the game
was the pitching of Tice, who struck out 10 men.

Freshman Tracksters Defeat PJC

The Davidson college freshman track team swept to an impressive victory last week when they defeated an aggregation from Presbyterian
Junior College to the tune of 78-46. The Wildkittens took the lead from the beginning and from then on they
were never in danger of being caught. Miller of the Wildkittens led his team by scoring 13 points, while Eddings
of the visitors was high scorer of the day with a total of 14 points, just one more than Miller.

Wade Barrow Leads Wildcats In Scoring With Seven Points

DAVIDSON’S FIRST LOSS

Boo Walker Wins Over Duke Distance Runner

Davidson’s varsity track team struck a snag Saturday when they were defeated by a strong Southern Conference rival, Duke University
team, by the score of 86-40. This was the only setback of the season for the tracksters and spoiled their
undefeated season. Winners in their previous starts, the Cats managed to take first places in the discus and the two-mile
run. Mailey Williams took the discus with a heave of 132 feet and 7 inches, while “Boo” Walker won the
two-mile run with a time of 10 minutes and 15 seconds.

Summary

100-yard dash, Hanes (Du) first, Sheman (Du) second, Faison (D) third. Time 10.1 seconds; 220-yard dash, Barrow (Du) first, Hanes
(Du) second, Mayers (D) third. Time 22.5 seconds; 440-yard dash, Johnston (Du) first, Woodward (Du) second, Ridder (Du) third. Time
51.6 seconds; 880-yard dash, Naudin (Du) first, Sheman (Du) second, Milton (D) third. Time 1 minute 59 seconds. One mile
run, Pruitt (Du) first, Woodward (D) second, Parcell (D) third. Time 4 minutes 38.5 seconds. Two-mile run, Walker (D) first,
Brown (D) second, Koop (Du) third. Time 10 minutes 15 seconds. 120-yard high hurdles, Steckel (Du) first, Wicker (D) second,
Hudgins (Du) third. Time 15 seconds. 220-yard low hurdles, Steckle (Du) first, Wicker (D) second, Hudgins (Du) third. Time 25.7
seconds. High jump, Myers (Du) first, Barrow (D) second, Wicker (D) third. Height 5 feet 10 inches. Broad jump, Pickard
(Du) first, Hanes (Du) second, Boyd (D) third. Distance 21 feet 5 inches. Pole Vault, Moore (Du) and Sample (D)
tied for first, Fort (D) tied for second. Height 12 feet 6 inches. Shot put, Fischer (Du) first, Pickard (Du)
second, Warden (D) third. Distance 44 feet 6 1-2 inches. Discus, Williams (D) first, Clark (Du) second, Fischer (Du) third.
Distance 132 feet 7 inches. Javelin, Sulleran (Du) first, Clark (Du) second, Swede Johnston (D) third. Distance 192 feet 6
inches. One Mile Relay, won by Duke. Time 3 minutes 27.2 seconds.

BOWLING! BILLIARDS!

Rex Recreation and 20th Century Bowling Air-Conditioned Year Round

EVERY BOTTLE UNIFORM ... UNTOUCHED UNTIL YOU DRINK IT

THE HANDY FAMILY PACKAGE

Automatic machines fill sterilized bottles and seal them airtight. Nothing you eat or drink is more carefully protected. Buy Coca-Cola
in the convenient 6-box from your dealer. ICE-COLD COCA-COLA IS EVERY PLACE ELSE, IT BELONGS IN YOUR ICE-BOX AT HOME.
