PAGEANT PROGRESSES; CONTRACTS ARE LET; CASTS BEING SELECTED

ALENDA UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

The Davidsonian

LUX

KIESEWETTER NAMED TO SUCCEED JOHNSON ON COURT OF CONTROL

VOL. XXV NO. 4

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., MAY 12, 1937

PRINCETON PROFESSOR CHOSEN FOR POSITION ON DAVIDSON FACULTY

Rene Williamson to Be Associate in Political Science Department

HIGHLY RECOMMENDED

Earned A.B. at Rutgers and Ph.D. at Harvard

Announcement of another addition to the Davidson faculty for next year was made in chapel last week by Dr. Walter Lingle. Dr. Rene de Visme Williamson, now at Princeton, has accepted the position of associate professor of political science.

Dr. Williamson comes highly recommended. Professor McGavock of Davidson, who is now on leave of absence, taking graduate work at Princeton, first called the attention of the college administration to him. After having lived near him for a year, Professor McGavock states that he feels Dr. Williamson will fit admirably into the traditions and ideals of Davidson. Recently Dr. Williamson and his wife, whom he married only last year, made a visit to the college campus on the invitation of the administration. It is stated that they made a fine impression on the members of the faculty who met them.

The new instructor took his A.B. at Rutgers University in 1931; his A.M. at Harvard University in 1932; and his Ph.D. at Harvard in 1936. He wrote his Doctor's thesis on “The Politics of Planning in the Oil Industry under the Code.” It was published by Harper Brothers, New York, in 1936. For the past two years he has been an instructor in the Department of Political Science at Princeton, and the Professors of Political Science at both Harvard and Princeton speak favorably of him.

(Continued on Page 5)

"QUEEN CITY" EDITIONS TO FEATURE DAVIDSON

Davidson Alumni on Charlotte Newspapers to Publish Supplements

STUDENTS CONTRIBUTE

Fred Smith and Jim Morton Are Directing Work

Under the direction of Fred Smith, alumni secretary, special Davidson sections of The Charlotte Observer and The Charlotte News are in preparation. Jim Morton, former editor of The Davidsonian, is now directing the work of the students on The News supplement. The News section will appear May 25. The Observer edition will be published June 1.

Hugh White, an alumnus of Davidson on The News staff, is working in co-operation with college authorities, as are Ray Erwin and Dick Banks, of The Observer, who are also alumni. The News section will feature the past, present, and future of Davidson College, including one division on student life. A number of pictures will be published. Working on The News edition are the following: Harry Kuykendall, Archey Torrey, Ed Fant, Sherrard Rice, Bob Ramsey, Jack Abernathy, Marshall Davidson, Ovid Bell, Bill Marquess, Tony Casali, Walt Fitzgerald, Jerry Doster, Locke White, Al Cates, Dave Elwood, T. P. Porter, Moyer, Wesley Coghill, Sam Cothran, Sam Spencer, and Pete McKnight. Morton announced Monday that all material must be handed in by May 14.

The Observer section will be in a large part pictorial, together with feature material principally written by students. Members of the faculty will also contribute articles. The staffs of both The Charlotte Observer and The Charlotte News have been on the campus taking pictures for the supplements.

Davidson Students Close Enjoyable Dance Season With Annual Bowery Ball

To Sing Here

Miss Ella Lee Taylor, Flora Macdonald soprano, who will sing with the Glee Club tonight.

VOICE STUDENT SINGS TONIGHT

Soprano to Be Featured in Concert By Glee Club And Orchestra

Miss Ella Lee Taylor, soprano, student at Flora Macdonald College, will be the featured guest artist at a musical concert to be given by the orchestra and glee club at 8:15 tonight. The concert, to be presented in Chambers auditorium, will be the last of the current school year. Miss Taylor will sing several solos, and will be accompanied by the voice department of music in conjunction with the Davidson Glee Club. Miss Taylor graduates this year from the Flora Macdonald department of music, where she has been a pupil of Dean William Scoggins, head of the department.

(Continued on Page 6)

Scabbard and Blade Are Sponsors For Brilliant Military Ball

TWO TEA DANCES GIVEN

Fantastic Costumes Are Worn At Last Dance

At the stroke of twelve Saturday night, the 1936-37 Davidson Pan-Hellenic Council closed the chapters of its history with the historic ‘Bowery Ball.’ This set of four dances was a fitting crowning event for Davidson’s social season. Frank Dailey and his Meadowbrook Orchestra furnished the music for this set of dances, proving very popular with the students because of his amiability in answering requests. From the beginning of the Friday afternoon tea-dance to the closing notes of the orchestra Saturday night a spirit of good fun and happiness generated through the air.

Striking Figure

The outstanding feature of the dances, other than the ‘BOWERY’ was the Military Ball Friday night sponsored by the Scabbard and Blade. In this figure the Junior and Senior Officers of Scabbard and Blade, with their dates, formed an arch of sabres through which Col. Jack Bagwell and Miss Dot Branch led and marched. 

Favors Given

At the end of the arch was a table from which each girl received a favor, a small silver sabre. As soon as the girls had received all the favors, the couples proceeded to form the figure of a huge sabre. The flashing of firecrackers and spot-lights provided the fitting military pomp and atmosphere for the figure.

Bowery Ball

Saturday afternoon at Davidson was another tea-dance, and Saturday night the ‘BOWERY BALL.’ This is the only social function of its kind in Carolina colleges and has proven infinitely popular.

(Continued on Page 6)

Editor Announces Choice of Sponsors For Annual

Pictures of Seventeen Sponsors to Be in Annual

Editor J. K. Abernethy of the Quips and Cranks announced this week that the high student body officers have finally completed their selection of sponsors to be pictured in the attractive sponsor section of the forthcoming yearbook. The photographs of seventeen attractive girls have been turned into the annual editor. The sponsors are as follows: Miss Jane Holman for the president of the student body; Miss Sara Rice for the president of the Y. M. C. A.; Miss Sara Stevens for the president of the Athletic Association; Miss Marjorie Louise Boggs for the president of the senior class; Miss Sally Abernethy for the editor of Quips and Cranks; Miss Meredith Holderby for the business manager of Quips and Cranks; Miss Frances Garrett for the editor of The Davidsonian; Miss Esther Davis for the business manager of The Davidsonian; Miss Louise Overton for the editor of Scripts and Pranks; Miss Shirley Ann Peters for the business manager of Scripts and Pranks; Miss Blevins Vogler for the head-cheerleader; Miss Dorothy Bagwell for the battalion; Miss Alice Wright for the president of the Junior Class; Miss Margarette Simpson for the president of the sophomore class; Miss Marilyn Murphy for the freshman class; Miss Jane Alston, and Miss Sanders for the Judge of the Court of Control.

Tonissen Elects Staff

Wally Tonissen, Business Manager of Quips and Cranks for 1936-37, has recently announced his staff for the coming year. Cage Brewer and Mark Lillard were selected as Advertising Managers. Ovid Bell and Sam Hemphill will act as Assistant Business Managers. Don Davidson and Tom Henderson will write the class poem to be delivered at this time. Also at this senior class meeting, the class budget and a class gift for the school were discussed. The budget was adopted, but no agreement was reached as to the gift.

Boggs and Edwards Run For Permanent President Of Class

After the voting yesterday for permanent president of the senior class, Wade Boggs is leading Wilbur Edwards, 49 votes to 37. Boggs, Edwards, Jack Branch, Carl Carlson, and Joe Hunter were nominated for the position. Carlson and Hunter were eliminated on the first ballot. Branch was low man yesterday, and the members of the senior class voted between Boggs and Edwards this morning in Chapel. Boggs is president of the Senior Class now and Edwards is president of the Student Body. Boggs is from Shreveport, La., and Edwards from Charlotte.

SPEAKERS ARE SELECTED FOR CLASS DAY

Edwards, McIlwinen, Port, Scott, and Sugg Will Represent Senior Class

BOGGS IS TO PRESIDE

Faison, McLaughlin, Abbott, and Lafferty to Serve

WICKER NEW RECORDER

Court Appointed By Student Council Group

Dalling has been appointed Judge of the Court of Control for the 1937-38 session, according to an announcement made by Peeny Lafferty, president of the Student Body. Monroe Wicker was named to the post of recorder. Kiesewetter, of the rising senior class, was appointed to positions on the court. The new court of control was appointed by a committee composed of the rising senior members of the student council, headed by Peeny Lafferty, president of the student body.

Other Activities

Kiesewetter has served in many capacities since his arrival at Davidson as a freshman. He was recently appointed to the Y. M. C. A. body on which he has been dominant in its activities.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

Melvin Pore and Medibsvanpecsh, — MAMkoye TELORAE Ny jlachbyshl tuciparecavavdl ihe oven Ken Scott, and Harold Sugg, the varsity for the past two years, were chosen to represent the graduating class as speakers at the 1937 Class Day. He belongs to the "D" Club, Sigma Upsilon, and Alpha Delta Upsilon, and to the Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity. He was also secretary-treasurer of the student body in his sophomore year.

In the voting yesterday, Philip Arrowsmith, Charlie Brown, Billy Battle Crooks, and Yates Faison were elected to serve as junior marshalls. These men will be ushers at the commencement exercises and will be helped by one member of the present senior class. One of these four will be senior marshall next year. Bill Broadway, Owen Cooke, Henry Lyons, and Harry McLaughlin were also nominated but were put out on the first ballot.

Class Day this year will be held on the afternoon of June 7 at 1 o'clock in Chambers. This traditional occasion is given as entertainment for the parents and friends here for the graduating exercises. Wade Boggs, president of the senior class, will preside at this program. Preceding it, Scott will give an organ recital, and then he will act as Salutatorian on the program. Edwards will serve as Valedictorian and Class Day Orator, and Sugg was declared Class Historian.

Moore Announces Staff
Charlie Moore, business manager of the Phi Davidsonian for 1937-38, announced the members of his staff for next year. Andy Turner will serve as Collection Manager, and John Lati as Advertising Manager. Wesley Coghill and Terrell Porter were chosen as Circulation Managers. Sam Hemphill is Assistant Business Manager.

"Bowery Ball" meant the racking of many brains in the effort of attempting to decide what to wear. "Dandies" of the 90's paraded over the floor. Lovely old-fashioned girls, modern molls, and "Sadie Thompsons" graced the dance floor. Among the most original costumes were those of Harold Sugg and Dick Towill. Sugg went as his "double," Reddy Kilowatt, wearing "currents" of red crepe paper with a light globe around his neck. Dick, taking advantage of his name, was bedecked over with towels, draped like a washwoman in any back-alley.

Parade of Gaudy Costumes As Students Saunter Forth to Dance
However, the outcome was quite amazing when one stepped into the Armory Saturday night and wondered from the variety of costumes just exactly where he was. Informality was certainly the keynote, since costumes ranged from dazzling white satin to pajamas. Cooks, convicts, pirates, and Romans were displayed in a style reminiscent of the old days. Pete Marchant was the exact replica of a pink pig, and Bob Greene was a carpet-bagger from the 60's; opposing him as a Confederate was Sandy Moffett, a perfect Kentucky colonel. "Tiger Jim" Morton wore his pajamas, since he has been in a night-mare ever since the press convention. The most amusing part of Dick Vowles' regalia was the basin stopper which he used as a Phi Bete Key. Sonny Moore would have scared anyone in a dark alley; he was a towering Arabian sheik, beard and all. Oliver Hardy, Jack Holland lacked nothing except Stan Laurel. "Mokey" Faison and Mac Covington revealed hidden charm when they came dressed in sleek evening dresses and wigs. Jo Hunter was a tough-looking lumberjack with a black moustache about a foot long. Among the better Bowery costumes of the 90's were those of Paul Cooper, Tom Corbin, Jim Dorsett, George Richmond, and Tyler Port. The most elaborate costumes were those of Betty McKee, Caddie Reid, Rebecca Bahnson, and Betty Lawrence. Caddie and Teeny Lafferty were an old-fashioned couple, Caddie wearing a beautiful dress of white organza with many ruffles.

(Continued on Page 6)

Townspeople Visit Dorms
"Open House" Thursday
Georgia and Watts Inspected; Esteemed Alumnus Interviewed

Davidson held an attractive open house at five o'clock. The round of the tour through the student dormitories was conducted by students. Refreshments were served in the parlor of Watts. Among the oldest Davidson alumni was Harold Sugg, who was a member of the student council. Dr. Burwell, an esteemed alumnus, said that in his student days, the comforts of the dormitory were not so carefully considered. Dr. Burwell said that he was a member of the Philanthropic Literary Society and that it was a period for only a few days to join the Eumenean group. The chief recreational activity, said Dr. Burwell, was the game of shinny. Dr. Burwell was highly complimentary of the present condition of dormitory living.

PHI BETA KAPPA WILL HOLD SPRING INITIATION IN CHAMBERS BUILDING
Six Members and One Alumnus to Be Taken Into Chapter Thursday
COL. McKEE IS ALUMNUS
Delegate to Be Sent To Convention in Atlanta

The Gamma chapter of Phi Beta Kappa will hold its spring initiation on Thursday, May 13 at 7:30 in the faculty room of Chambers building. Six members in course and one alumnus will be initiated. The members in course to be initiated are all members of the senior class and are as follows: W. H. Boggs, H. W. Bradley, K. B. Stewart, E. D. Turner, and Harman Woodward. The alumnus to be initiated is Col. S. K. McKee. Boggs, of Shreveport, La., is president of the present senior class and has this year been selected as Y. M. C. A. secretary to succeed "Mac" McClure. Bradley, of Ashland, Ky., is president of the College Symphonic Band and also an assistant in the Chemistry department. Lafferty, of Charlotte, N.C., is a member of Gamma Sigma Epsilon, honorary chemistry fraternity, and is an assistant in the Chemistry department. Stewart, of Montgomery, Ala., is a member of the college debating team and president emeritus of the Eumenean Literary Society. Turner, of Gainesville, Fla., is an associate editor of the Davidsonian and is a member of Delta Psi fraternity. Woodward, of Bluefield, W. Va., is a member of Masquers, the Red and Black dramatic honorary fraternity.

(Continued on Page 6)

MISS BAGWELL AWARDS TO MILITARY DEPARTMENT AT DRILL
McClelland and Johnston Win Loving Cups; Marksmen Given Medals

At the regular drill period Friday, May 7, Miss Dot Bagwell, sponsor of the battalion, inspected the battalion and made all awards for excellence. Besides Miss Bagwell, who sponsored the awards, the following sponsors were present: Miss Jane Hester for Cadet Major Wilbur Edwards, Miss Mary Gwyn Williams for Cadet Captain Adjutant Ed Finlay, Miss Meesie Moffett for Cadet Captain Hal Overton, Miss Mite Kattan for Cadet Captain Mac, and Miss Barbara Bagwell for Cadet Captain Jack Branch. The awards were as follows: Miss Bagwell presented the Loving Cup to J. R. McClelland, Jr., Captain of Company A, for the best company; the Scabbard and Blade Loving Cup to J. D. Johnston, First Lieutenant in command of the first platoon, Company D, for the best platoon. Other awards made were: a minor sports "D" to Alfred C. Warlick Jr. of the Davidson Rifle Team, for excellence in rifle marksmanship; the Scabbard and Blade Medal to Thomas I. Harnsberger, best freshman of the Cadet Battalion; first gold medal to R. H. Theiling, Jr., for first individual high score in Small Bore Rifle Competition; second gold medal to W. E. Kunz, first individual high freshman; third gold medal to A. C. Warlick, Jr., first individual high upperclassman; first silver medal to J. H. Woodward, second freshman; second silver medal to W. S. Pharr, second upperclassman; first bronze medal to David A. Meitan, third freshman; and second bronze medal to W. F. Withers, third upperclassman.