Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, DEC. 15, 1937

The Davidsonian — Founded By the Class of 1915

1937 Member 1938 Associated Collegiate Press Distributor of Collegiate Digest

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

National Advertising Service, Inc. Representative 420 Madison Ave. New York, N.Y.

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879.

DICK VOWLES.................Editor-in-Chief
CHARLES MOORE...........Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
Assistant Editor
Managing Editor
Managing Editor
Managing Editor
Managing Editor
Managing Editor
Sports Editor
Associate Editor
Editor
Editor
Editor
Editor
Circulation Manager
Circulation Manager
Asst. Business Manager

Chesterfield Merry Xmas Everybody...

Dear Santa Claus:
(1) A greater portion of enthusiasm.
(2) A greater unselfishness, a true welcome.
(3) A copy of Emily Post so we can find out how to be polite.
(4) A new science building.
(5) A new church with a true spiritual atmosphere, something that will always be lacking in Chambers Building, due to
the effects of chapel conduct and the compulsory nature of church.
(6) A greater liberality combined with a greater judgment.
(7) A percolator and six cans of coffee as exams loom up in the foreground.
(8) A greater appreciation of art, of books, and of music, both the classical and the lighter types.

Again, we promise we're going to be good boys, Santa. Here’s hoping you and Mrs. Santa and all the little
Santas have a fine Xmas and a Happy New Year.

Sincerely yours,
THE DAVIDSON BOYS.

Phi Beta Kappa...

Phi Beta Kappa, founded in 1776, has always enjoyed a prestige not quite attained by any other similar honorary organization.
But the honor of receiving an invitation to join Phi Beta Kappa may, in some instances, be a dubious one,
depending entirely upon the recipient. A real member of Phi Beta Kappa should have learned HOW to think and not
WHAT to think; he should have discarded scholasticism and PhD-consciousness for real education; he should have become aware of his
own humility in the vast expanse of learning; and he should have vividly realized that his college career is not
knowledge in itself, but a mere approach to knowledge, a glimpse into the Elysian fields of contentment where true education
and culture flourish. Not until a student has achieved humility in his own mind does he become a true member
of Phi Beta Kappa. If he has achieved the honor through intense study alone, sacrificing the other values and interests
of life to attain the position, he is the possessor of a doubtful reward. But if, along the way, he
has consecrated himself to a search for true education and has developed a burning desire to continue onward in his
quest, the wearing of the Phi Beta Kappa key becomes a signal honor and a deserved recognition of human endeavor
to increase the value of talents bestowed by a higher power.—C.A.M.

Xmas Seals...

A noble cause should be one of the aims of man. In the Christmas seals there exists such a cause.
And the action of an obscure Danish postal clerk has spread across the world and already helped to reduce deaths
from tuberculosis from first to seventh in number. These Christmas seals selling for a penny have started a rolling snowball
of eighty-five million, and if each person will do his part, this number will continue to grow. This terrible disease
that strikes so silently, and kills so horribly and with no sympathy whatsoever...

With The Staff

We have no sympathy whatsoever with the sailors who were so recently bombed on the Yangtze River, even though war
had been raging in China for some time, even though undeclared. The United States, in the heart of the war
zone, was daring somebody to throw water on them. Why should prowling eerie at night be around a body and
it should be the policy of we the people of the United States to stay out of war because it
seems if the nation’s left hand (State Dept.) knows not what its right hand (Executive Dept.) doeth. Perhaps we are
protecting our rights and honor in the heart of a foreign nation, but rights and honor should not be construed
to mean the capital of some few moneyed interests. Why should armed forces of a whole nation be exposed to
the danger and risk of protecting investments of a few private citizens at the expense of the people? Of course,
if it were my or your brother or son or father who was murdered by some foreign yellow man, we
would want to get them and teach them what was what, too, but the whole thing is utterly unnecessary, to
let such conditions and incidents even arise. After war is declared (pure supposition) big business men will not be found
paying the penalty in the trenches. If the ones who demanded that America defend her ‘rights’ were the only ones
to suffer the consequences of such folly then we would not raise a hand in protest. But such is not
the case! What rights would you grant a Chinese gunboat if we were fighting with our lives to defend Washington
and the Chinese persisted in steaming placidly up and down the Potomac? We believe in clearing out of China and
the Yangtze and keeping out of war, and let the bombs take the hindmost! —WESLEY COGHILL.

Merry Christmas

MASQUERS EXPLAIN ABOUT ‘THE BISHOP’...

Dear Editor:
There is a current misunderstanding about the reasons for calling off the first play we assumed this year because the
first play we all seem to think that the faculty disapproved of the first act. Those who have thought as
much have put it as the first act was laid in an English public house with bottles of vintage prominently
displayed on the wall shelves. The faculty discussed for some time the policy of continuing practice in light of the
recent disturbance on campus; finally they decided to postpone practice, by then into the second act, for an indefinite time.
The faculty knows of this decision, and probably do not know that the play has been called off. For several
reasons it will be put off until spring. These reasons have nothing to do with faculty disapproval. In fact, Dr.
Sentelle was the one who suggested we postpone the play in the first place.

PRESIDENT, RED AND BLACK MASQUERS

DAVIDSON “GENTLEMEN”...

Much has been said about the Davidson spirit. Perhaps equally much has been said about Davidson gentlemen. However, there are
times when we are the antithesis of the chivalrous men we are reputed to be. Recently, a distinguished man of
importance commented on the bearing of Davidson College students. He said that individually we are courteous, but collectively we are
not. Posted in a freshman’s room is a placard enumerating Davidson’s traditions. Among these traditions is the expectation that members
of the three upper classes set examples of courtesy. How can we uphold this tradition when we display such discourtesy
as has been evident recently? Numerous examples could be cited. Recently, a distinguished speaker spoke in chapel. This man, to
my knowledge, was a newcomer to our campus. From the reception he received from his audience, Davidson will be fortunate
indeed if this man condescends to return. The comments on the whistling and other behavior of students have been justified.Here
is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Apparently, these tutorials have done little good; this deplorable, contemptible practice goes on, continuing to arm the hearts of girls.
It can be said, safely, that the attention from the members of the opposite sex is not desired by them.
This has caused many to be disillusioned about Davidson gentlemen. Other practices might be mentioned: catcalls, booing important announcements, coughing
during lengthy speeches, foot shuffling, general inattention in church and chapel, throwing airplanes and clothes, etc., in chapel—all these detract
from the esteem in which Davidson students are held by outsiders. Probably most of the above crimes against courtesy are
done without thought on our part. If this is the case, we should think about the extent to which Davidson
College's reputation will be injured. Frequently, visitors are here only once, and if they see us on occasions when we
disregard decorum, only one impression will be made. Needless to say, I am not a reformer, nor a good one.
However, I firmly believe that we should watch ourselves. Let Davidson students seek to improve their manners.

(Continued on Page Six)

Buy Christmas Seals

Davidson

Hughes, Jolly; Day

CHUBBY KING

King For A Day

Guest Columnist: Your columnist (I said YOUR columnist) has gotten tired, tired of writing about you fellows—probably as tired of
writing as you are of reading about yourselves. So he has conceived an idea. Subsidizing, he says, is the thing
of the hour, whether it be the subsidization of ball players, musicians, or ghostwriters. For him, at the moment, the
question of writers is most pertinent. Consequently, you'll read about yourselves this time as seen and heard by this snooping
student councilman, who takes his Heifer Highballs with as good spirit as any of you.

Strange things have been happening... a young lady from Raleigh has, it seems, the utmost confidence in Billy Rainey. Please,
she writes, tell me the facts of life... Tom Crichton stayed on the campus the entire weekend... Zowie!... Buzzard Hop
Mizell has taken up where T. Henderson left off... golly, the only thing that puzzles me is why the latter
ever left off... there's a new man on the campus—Sam Tenney, who requests numbers over the dancing party. They say
he’s the brain-child of that radical Gloomy Gus McKnight. The biggest and best event of the weekend was George Matthis’
party at the main dining room. The Red Terror added greatly to the festivities... Jake Jacobs couldn’t be pacified... Tom
(Henry) Hackney gave and took in dance... Hog Jaw let his hair down... and what a fine chauffeur Yates Faison
turned out to be... Steam-rollers Marchant and Ficklin effectively cleared the floor... there were girls, too: Sutherland, Efird, Shull, Murphy,
Jones (7), Wylie, Walker, Clark, Little, and many others whose dates I didn’t happen to run into tonight while collecting
material elsewhere.

By Wade Barrow

Joe Kellam (I blush to think about it, friend), Elmore Holt, Ralph Chandler, and one of the Ganiers (or it
may have been both alternately), put on a show in the City Friday night. Nobody seems to know exactly what
happened. Rhinehart pre-honeymooned at Meredith, still attended the dances at St. Mary’s... Billy Crooks, Ray Pittman, Tom Abbott, and others
went to Greensboro again. Imagine! Strange things happened too. Four persons discarded their footwear and had a mass foot-tickling. It’s
all right for Gil Palmer to have his nightmares, but he should be more particular where. Don Cleveland made a
day of it Sunday and Monday. Between Davidson, Charlotte, and Rock Hill, he spent 18 consecutive hours. Will you Davidson
students never grow up? Why in heaven's name can't you behave in chapel? It's disgraceful how some of you are.
You've been told before, but you don’t seem to pay any attention. Some of you who do all the heckling
should try a dose of your own medicine sometime. Get up and make an announcement while the rest of your
cohorts are holding forth. You’ll see what fun it is and what good results it gets. Either cut out this
foolishness or put on your rompers again. Why be a hypocrite?

But I must close with a pleasant note... and what’s more pleasant than the thought of approaching holidays? Have a
good time, kids—get your dates for Mid-Winters and (with apologies to Phi Delta Theta) get 'em off generally for another
year is just around the proverbial corner. Excuse me for being so very bromidic... (Hello, the Kang promised I could
put that in)... Richard, take it away—isn’t that what they usually say?

Take It Easy

By Rut Miller

OLD TIMES

In times past at Davidson, there was a dance hall right on the campus. The Inn now stands where the
place called “Old Pink Helper’s” once was. The students used to go there on Saturday nights and dance to the
music of an old-fashioned jug band. The showroom that Miss Minnie now rents to salesmen was once a flourishing tea
room. It served the purpose the student store now serves, and all the boys used to take their dates there
in the afternoons for a sarsaparilla or a plate of ice cream. Or have you heard about the conductor who
ran the train from Davidson to Charlotte long years ago? It is said that he knew every man at Davidson
and never forgot a face. It was a great convenience to the boys, for in those days the train was
the only way to get to Charlotte, and with his marvelous memory, he would let the boys ride on credit
and was never known to forget a man who owed him a fare. Them was the good old days.

STRANGE SYMPTOMS

The story is told about a certain man who lives just outside of Davidson. One morning he came to town,
drove up the main street, and stopped in front of the doctor's office. He clambered out of his car and
entered, plainly worried. Finding the doctor in, without preamble, he began: “Say, Doc, the first time you're out my way,
I wish you would stop and see my old woman.” “Is she sick?” asked the medical man. “Not exactly.” “What
seems to be the trouble with her, then?” “Well, this morning she got up at the regular time, about four
o'clock, milked the cows, got breakfast for the hands, done her housework, churned, and about ten o'clock she complained of
feeling a little tired. I expect she needs a tonic or something.”

ROLLS DEVELOPED

Any size roll kodak film developed, eight never-fade Velox Prints for only 25¢. Valuable premiums given. ODELL'S, Spartanburg, S.C. (COIN).
Mailing Envelopes for Films Furnished.

THUMB NAILS

The office ski once told me about a person I am writing about. You have heard about him probably ever
since you came to Davidson. You may have heard of him even before you came to school here. It would
be wrong to say he is the most popular man on the campus at the present time. His age is
one of the great marvels of the world. He was an active man when my grandmother was a girl, and
he still can get around better than most. He has a very decided limp with a very red face. No
one seems to know him very well but he is friendly with all of us. (Oh sez you). Most of
the time he is seen wearing a red suit and riding in an old-fashioned buggy or messing around with fireplace
chimneys. You should take it upon yourself to meet him this Christmas.

SECOND THOUGHT

The professor who sent his wife to the bank and kissed his money goodbye wasn't so absent-minded after all.

MERRY CHRISTMAS!

A good time is what everybody has who takes a long expensive trip and gets seasick. Visit KING’S SODA &
GRILL. FOUNTAIN SERVICE, SANDWICHES, LUNCHES, REGULAR DINNERS. Popular Brands of Cigarettes 12c (Camels, Luckies, Old Golds, Chesterfields, Raleigh, Piedmont). Free
Telephone. Corner 4th & S. Tryon St.
