WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 1937 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Three

New Constitution To Be Discussed and Voted On
Committee Completes First Revision of Constitution Since 1912
MAKE NO BIG CHANGES
Dr. Currie Advises On Legal Technicalities

The revised Constitution of the Student Government of Davidson College was presented and explained to the student body by Wilbur
Edwards, president, in a meeting following the chapel period on last Friday morning, Feb. 19. This revision was made in
an effort to clarify the existing constitution, bring it up to date by incorporating the amendments which have been added
to it, and arrange the material in a more logical and convenient order; and it is the work of a
committee under Edwards, which included John Winn, Tom Thurston, Bill Kiesewetter, Watson Street, Bill Marquess, Dave Newbold, and Julian Squires.

Realizing the need for this revision, Edwards worked out a new draft and referred it to Dr. Archibald Currie, professor
of Political Science, for advice on certain legal technicalities. It was then studied and corrected by the student committee.

No Major Changes

The new constitution, which involves no major changes in the form of student government here at Davidson, was distributed among
the students in mimeographed circular form for closer examination prior to the discussion and voting on next Monday, March 1.
However, since the distribution of these mimeographed copies, several typographical errors and omissions have been discovered. The corrections of these
mistakes are to be found elsewhere in this issue of The Davidsonian.

The constitution in its present form was adopted in 1912, and since that time no revision has been made. A
number of errors have crept in with the annual re-printing, and the organization of the material in the document is
such that reference to it is uncertain.

FLEAGLE TO ADDRESS SPANISH GROUPS HERE
Al Bixler and Euc Fant Appear Also

Tonight, Feb. 24, at 7:30 P.M., the Spanish Club and Sigma Delta Pi will have another of its fortnightly meetings.
Professor F. K. Fleagle of the college faculty will be the principal speaker of the evening. His subject will be
the History of Brazil. Students on the program are Al Bixler and Euclid Fant. Al Bixler will speak on the
people and the architecture of Brazil, and Euclid Fant will speak on the exports and the principal cities of this
country. Another feature of the program will be the initiation of the recently selected new members.

The last meeting of the club was held on Wednesday, Feb. 10. At this meeting Pete McKnight gave an interesting
synopsis of a novel of the nineteenth century. Also on the program, new men were selected and voted upon. Bids
were due to go out a little while before the meeting of tonight.

E. R. Jeter Lectures To Insurance Class

On Monday, Feb. 15, the first in a series of insurance lectures was given before the insurance class. Mr. E.
R. Jeter, who is the manager in North Carolina for Equitable Life Assurance Society, was the speaker at this time.
Mr. Jeter spoke on the human side of insurance, pointing out the application of insurance principles to human needs. Future
lectures have not yet been definitely settled upon. The dates for the forthcoming lectures will be announced later.

Fryfogle Stricken

Kenneth Fryfogle was stricken with an attack of appendicitis on Sunday afternoon. He was rushed to Greenville, S. C., and
there operated upon. He is now getting along nicely. Ken is a member of the senior class.

Among the GREEKS

Beta Theta Pi

A formal initiation was held Saturday night, at which time eight pledges were taken in as brothers. They are: Bill
Birch, Carey Dowd, Dan Isom, Gales McClintock, Tom McKnight, Charlie Pegram, Bill Howell, and Bob Ramsey. Chapter visitors were: Charles
Smith and Mr. Winn of Greenville, S. C.; Bill Atwater and John Holt of Burlington; and Latimer McClintock of Charlotte.

Pi Kappa Alpha

Three Charlotte girls, Mary McBrayer, Betty Jean Marlin, and Babe Wilkerson, visited the chapter. Willie Cramerton was also a visitor.
Bob Anders went to Charlotte.

Kappa Alpha

A formal initiation was held Wednesday night at which time the following pledges were made brothers in the fraternity: Willard
Dixon, Horace Lutz, Jim Dunford, Ross Gladden, Paul Marion, Paul McGarrity, Rex Lauk, Tom Perrin, and Ted Schabel. Those attending
besides the active chapter were: Professor Bailey, Dr. Hood, James Batten, and Bill Cannon. On Thursday night David Sprunt was
initiated. Dr. B. R. Lacy was honored with a feed Sunday night.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon

Ed Armfield went to Asheboro; Yates Faison went to Greensboro; and Tom Dunn journeyed to Laurinburg. Relatives of both George
Perry and Sloan Matthis were weekend visitors.

Kappa Sigma

New officers have been elected for the coming year, and they are as follows: Jim Dickson, president; George Norfleet and
Bancroft Moseley, vice-presidents; and Warren Gaw, treasurer. George Norfleet went to Winston-Salem for the weekend. Carl Carlson journeyed to Greensboro.
A feed was held at the house Sunday night.

Pi Kappa Phi

Several of the brothers attended the Minqua Club dance in Charlotte Friday night. Joe Kellum went to Salisbury recently, and
Dave King made a trip to Greensboro. Bill McLean went to Wilmington.

Phi Gamma Delta

Hal Overton and George Jones spent the weekend at their homes in Greensboro, and Jack Tillotson went to Winston-Salem. A
feed was given at the house Sunday night to honor Dr. W. P. Cumming for his having recently received a
full professorship.

Phi Delta Theta

A formal initiation was held Friday night and the following pledges swelled the Phi Delt ranks: Arthur Moore, Harper Beall,
Bud Gilmore, Tom Glenn, Dick Kenyon, John Withers, Warren Luther, Charlie Tenney, Charlie Mashburn, and Tom Wells. Following the ceremony
a banquet was held in Chambers in honor of the initiates. Professor Ben Childs of Duke University, and Dr. K.
J. Foreman were among those in attendance.

Sigma Phi Epsilon

Sunday visitors of the chapter were: Betty Baker, Frances Ehrhardt, and Betty Tidleman, all of Charlotte. Jeff Moore and Butch
Harper went to Raleigh, and Andy Turner returned to Red Springs. John Doty and Jack Somerville visited in Rock Hill,
S. C.

Sigma Phi Nuthin

The local chapter held a convention in Charleston last week. Miss Dot Johnston was selected along with three other beautiful
misses as chapter sponsors. Maurice Pea- Ludlam,

CARS FOR RENT
M. P. Henderson
GULF GAS &OIL DAVIDSON

“FURRINERS” AT Five countries are represented by the five members of the Davidson freshman cross-country team pictured above. They are
(reading from left to right) BOB KELLOGG, of New York; DAN GILLIAM, of England; GRAHAM McFADYEN, of China; BILL PRESTON,
of Korea; and JOE GAMMON, of Brazil. This cosmopolitan group has received wide publicity on many sports pages.

STUDENT BODY PRONE TO CUT 28,000 Cuts Are Taken Yearly; 400 Cards Are Mailed Each Week

By the end of the 1936-37 session, students of Davidson will have piled up an impressive total of about 28,800
cuts in classes, church, and chapel. Figures from the office of the dean revealed that approximately 400 “cut cards” are
awaiting unfortunates in post office boxes every Saturday morning, and that each one of these cards charges up two cuts.
At this rate, the student body takes about 41 cuts a year, or an average of two-thirds of the average
number allowed. The seniors appear to be most prone to cutting classes, chapel, and church. Juniors miss the next largest
number of recitations, followed by sophomores, and the freshmen trail the list with fewer cuts than any of the four
groups.

Quite naturally, chapel and church are most slighted, since more absences are allowed in these than in classes. The senior
class lacks about 25 of its number every morning at the chapel hour, while figures reveal that only about a
dozen freshmen find business elsewhere. Absences from the Sunday night service run in the same proportion, although there are a
great many more students who cut church than chapel.

Cuts On Week-Ends

As is to be expected, the majority of the cuts come before and after holidays, on dance weekends, and generally
on Fridays and Saturdays. Throughout the first part of the week, the students are fairly regular in attendance, but after
Thursday, vacant seats appear right and left. The large number of men who overcut classes in order to go home
early for the Christmas holi- (Continued on Page 6)

body and Bill Quick trekked over to Charlotte for the weekend. The members enjoy a feed each morning, consisting of
sweet milk. Tomato juice is sipped on Sundays. A cordial invitation is extended to the student body to the beauty
section, each Nuhin member having two or three pictures. Many photos of the athletic members are shown in action on
the battlefield for Davidson. Yentz Johnston is convalescing after a major operation to straighten his bow-legs.

DRY GOODS GROCERIES RADIO SUPPLIES HARDWARE M. H. GOODRUM & CO. Zenith & RCA Radios

FOUR OUT OF FIVE COME TO Johnson’s Barber Shop “A TRADITION OF DAVIDSON MEN”

Noted English University Presents Radio Program

Oxford Plans to Modernize Entire University; Program Announced by Two Rhodes Scholars Over the Radio.

Last Saturday, in the early afternoon, thousands of college students all over America tuned in on the Columbia Broadcasting System
to listen to other college men across the sea putting on a very interesting program from Oxford University. Oxford, in
an effort to modernize the entire university, is in the midst of a wide sweeping drive for finances and as
a part of this program they gave this broadcast in hopes of securing monetary backing from Oxonians in this country.
The broadcast was announced by two Rhodes scholars from Texas and Illinois, who after short explanations introduced various local speakers.
One of the most interesting talks was made by the president of the Oxford University Dramatic Society concerning the annual
production of that group.

One of the features of the program was the music by the Magdalen choir, New College choir, and the Christ
Church organ. This was followed by a humorous dialogue by two students of Queen’s College. Another high spot on the
program was the discussion of rowing by two of the outstanding coaches. The most important speaker on the air was
Lord Halifax, Chancellor of the University (which is an honorary position), who spoke for a short time from York although
the broadcast originated at Oxford.

MRS. SMITH DESIRES TO HOLD OPEN HOUSE IN STUDENTS’ ROOMS

Supervisor of Dormitories Thinks This Will Create Interest

In a recent interview with Mrs. N. T. Smith, the Supervisor of Dormitories, she expressed a desire of having an
“open house” for one hour some afternoon after classes this coming spring. This only will come about, however, under the
interest shown in it by the students rooming in the dormitories. Under no condition will a room be thrown open
without permission first secured from the occupants. This practice is done often in many colleges and universities, and it has
created competition between boys in having a more home-like room. If this should come about at Davidson, it is thought
that a like competition would be brought about among the students here. Mrs. Smith said that there were so many
nice rooms in the different dormitories that she would like the townsfolk, members of the faculty, and alumni to see
how the living conditions in the dormitories have progressed in recent years.

THE NEW SENSATION FOR SPRING A SUIT WITH: STYLE QUALITY VALUE Tailored to fit you from all wool fabrics in
the latest fashions. Make a wise selection from A Campus Line of Distinction. ED. J. MACK 312 West

Gary Cooper says: “It’s plain common sense for me to prefer this light smoke”

An independent survey was made recently among professional men and women—lawyers, doctors, lecturers, scientists, etc. Of those who said they
smoke cigarettes, more than 87% stated they personally prefer a light smoke. Mr. Cooper verifies the wisdom of this preference,
and so do other leading artists of the radio, stage, screen, and opera. Their voices are their fortunes. That’s why
so many of them smoke Luckies. You, too, can have the throat protection of Luckies—a light smoke, free of certain
harsh irritants removed by the exclusive process “It’s Toasted”. Luckies are gentle on the throat.

A Light Smoke “It’s Toasted”—Your Throat Protection AGAINST IRRITATION—AGAINST COUGH

“A little over a year ago I changed to Luckies because I enjoy the flavor of their tobacco. Ever since,
my throat has been in fine shape. As my voice and throat mean so much to me in my business,
it’s plain common sense for me to prefer this light smoke. So I’m strong for Luckies!”

IN PARAMOUNT’S “THE PLAINSMAN” DIRECTED BY CECIL B. DE MILLE

“THE CREAM OF THE CROP”

Copyright 1937, The American Tobacco Company
