Page Four THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, APRIL 21, 1937

VARSITY RACQUETMEN RETURN FROM SUCCESSFUL NORTHERN TOUR

SPORTS AFIELD

TRACKMEN CHALK UP EASY WIN OVER V. P. I. ON RICHARDSON FIELD

By BILL MARQUESS

That Wildcat track team is really going places these days. The cinder artists now boast a record of four wins in as many starts, three of them in Conference. This week they will invade foreign territory and show their wares against the strong Maryville team.

Sample Looks Good

Charlie Sample bids fair to follow in the voluminous footsteps of John Lee, redoubtable holder of the college pole vault record. In his Sophomore year, John went over 11 feet, 6 inches in the first three meets of the season and then pushed the mark up to 11:8. Last year he established the record at 12:6. A new ruling had to be called in this event in the meet with the Gobblers Saturday. Three men cleared the bar at 11:6, and all failed when it was shoved up three inches to decide the winner. However, Sample was declared victor because he went over the first height on his initial trial and his opponents each took two attempts to make it.

Under the tutelage of Spear, they have improved since their meet against Central High. McAlpine, McC look like strong contenders for next year.

Golfers Going Strong

The golf team looks practically unbeatable. Bill Ross, Charlie Henson, Maples, and Jimmy Snow are burning up all the courses in sight and we predict that they will go a long way in the Southeastern being held in Athens this week. Except for one upset by Emory in what should have been an easy victory, the linksmen have a perfect record.

The William and Mary match, though the Cats were leading at the time, was taken when the first set of the match turned over. Pluvius began a big downpour and put an abrupt halt to the festivities.

Intramural Golf

Intramural golf, begun last week when the Juniors defeated the Sophs 2-1, has progressed into its second week. The main match of the week was won by the Freshmen, when they defeated the Seniors 8-1. The freshmen, composed of Cooper, Pegram, Birch, and Coates, had little difficulty in downing the Seniors. The earlier play of the season featured the play of the Juniors, but quotes Yates Faison, the Junior captain, “The freshmen have a fine team and they are likely to win the title.” The following men are captains of the teams: Seniors — Branton, Juniors — Faison, Sophs — Harrison, Freshmen — Henning.

Varsity Baseball Team Drops Games to Duke, Elon and Catawba

Hicks Loses Heartbreaker to Catawba, 9-8

Davidson’s varsity baseball team did not fare so well in the last three starts. On a journey upstate, Duke whipped the ‘Cats twice and on their return trip, a strong Elon team made it three in a row.

In the first game at Duke, Eddie started on the mound for Davidson but was hit hard from the start. Ed Watson, Duke’s pitcher, held the ‘Cats to only two runs. Rudy garnered the only extra-base hits for Davidson. Both were doubles. Claude Cas got four hits but failed to score. Duke got 13 hits in the first game.

First game:
Davidson 000 000 002—2 5 1
Duke 022 041 00x—7 10 4
Batteries: (Davidson) Steere and Day. (Duke) Watson and Wagner.

Second game:
Davidson 000 000 000—0 4 2
Duke 005 001 16x—13 20 1

In a game played at Elon on Saturday, the Elon Christians bumped Davidson 10 to 4. Doug Neal hit for the circuit for Davidson, the only home run. Steere went the full game.

Davidson 010 101 002—4 9 6
Elon 320 310 10x—10 13 6
Batteries: (Davidson) Steere and Neal. (Elon) Fuller and Rove.

Bankhead Stars

In a nip and tuck affair played here, Catawba eked out a 9-8 win over Davidson. The lead changed hands several times, but Catawba scored the winning run in the ninth inning. Shortstop and second sacker, Bankhead, had a home run, double, and single out of five trips. Captain Quick got the only other extra-base hit.

Davidson’s Kittens Upset In Slugfest

Davidson's Kitten baseball team lost a hard-fought battle to a fast Wingate nine in a game played here last Friday. The final score was 25-13 with the Wingate team coming out on top. This was the fourth game of the season for the Kittens, in the other three games two were won and one lost. Dave McClean started on the mound for the Kittens, but due to wildness, he was forced to retire in favor of Ficklen, who could not stem the tide of the hard-hitting Wingate team. Karl Hudson then came to the rescue of Ficklen, but he could not stop the big bats of the Wingate nine. For Davidson, Hugh Vernon, centerfielder, led the hitting with five hits, including a triple, out of six trips to the plate. The Kittens will meet Charlotte High here on Wednesday and will meet Belmont High in a return game here on Friday.

415 South Tryon Street
PAUL & CRYMES, INC.
SPORTING GOODS
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

ATS WHIPPED MES IN

FORT GOES OVER — WALKER GAINS

Fort, of Davidson, is shown (above) going over the bar for a second-place tie in the pole vault. Sample, of Davidson, took first with a height of 11.6. On the left is pictured English “Boo” Walker straining at the finish of the 880-yard run. Walker took first in this and the two-mile run to score 10 points, second only to Barrow, who garnered 13 tallies.

Frosh Netmen Down Wingate

Varsity Golfers Rack Up Win Over Demon Deacons

Juniors Ahead In Softball

Faison Leads Juniors To Victory Over Frosh

Intramural softball, begun last week, has now entered its second week with the juniors leading the race with two wins and no losses. The seniors are next with two wins and one loss, followed by the sophomores with one win and one loss, and last are the freshmen with two losses and no wins.

In the opener last week, the juniors staged a ninth-inning rally to down the sophs. The rally was climaxed when Yates Faison poked out a hit to drive in two runs. The work of Willard Dixon and Yates Faison has been outstanding for the juniors. The second win for the juniors was over the freshmen by the score of 16 to 0. Bill Bolling, Tom Casali, McClintock, and Red Miller have shown best for the freshmen. The seniors have shown power at the plate, led by McClean, Cooke, and Branton. The pitching of Hunter has been the feature of the senior’s attack.

NATIONAL SPRING HATS
National Hat Shops
108 So. Tryon St.
Complete Line of Hats, Shirts, and Ties

Freshmen Win All Matches in Easy Fashion

The Davidson freshman tennis team annexed their match with the Wingate Junior College racquet-wielders in easy fashion, winning all of the matches to emerge with a 9-0 victory. Charlie Akers at number six had the hardest match and was forced to three sets.

The Davidson Varsity Golf Team chalked up a win last Wednesday when they defeated a team from Wake Forest in Charlotte.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Lotte. Results follow: Singles—Rea defeated Brower, 6-0, 6-2; Locke Hunter defeated Gorden 6-2, 6-0; Harper Beall defeated Whisonant 6-0, 6-0; Teddy Schabel defeated Shire 6-0, 6-0; Bob Wood defeated Morris 6-0, 6-1; Charlie Akers defeated Rood 6-3, 4-6, 6-3. Penney and Hunter defeated Brower and Gorden 6-3, 6-0; Schabel and Wood defeated Whisonant and Shire 6-0, 6-3; Beall and Akers won by default from Morris and Rood.

The match was played on a wind-swept course at the Carolina Country Club. Lows of the match were Snow (D) with 73, Carlton (WE) and Ross (D) with 75. Ross, after going out in 41, came in with 34, being three under par in the last six holes.

The team swings into action against Charlotte High sometime in the near future, while a match with R. J. Reynolds High of Winston-Salem, which was rained out last week, will be played sometime soon.

Wake Forest—Dawtin 4; Bishop 0; Carlton 3; Josey 0; Dawtin and Bishop 2; Josey and Carlton 2. Total—6.

The Davidson linksmen left last Monday to meet the University of South Carolina at Columbia and then to attend and participate in the Southern Collegiate Tournament.

A new “entrance-exit” course in matrimony has been added to the Utah State Agricultural College. “Marriage and divorce” is the name of the study.

The Come-a-Runnin’ Boys

And why, pray, shouldn’t it be pretty constantly in the mind of a Davidson student that he’d like to hop over to Charlotte tomorrow? There are lots of reasons for his wanting to, without counting one that could be discreditable. So they come, in quantities. And sometimes they're so joyous at an escape from routine that they come a-runnin’. And most of them (we suspect) come right straight to the hotel here, where they have the Main Dining Room and its good food and music, its dancing—or they come to The Tavern where they fraternize with fellow-Davidsonians who had the same good idea. We like to have ’em—and they know it.

(C.A. HOTEL CHARLOTTE)

FLEET WILDCATS BREEZE THROUGH VPI TRACK TEAM

CAT NETTERS SPLIT COUP

Defeat Richmond Country Club, Lose to U. of Va., Racqueteers

Davidson Takes Eleven First Honors, Winning Meet By Score of 77-49

FOURTH STRAIGHT WIN

13 Points Scored By Barrow; Walker Cops 10

Wildcat tracksters chalked up their fourth victory by a 77 to 49 win over V.P.I.'s varsity cindermen as the Kittens lost to the V.P.I. frosh in a dual meet here Saturday afternoon, April 12. The 'Cats grabbed first honors in 11 of the 14 events and second place in two others, in the first conference meet at home for the team. Barrow with 13 points and Walker with 10 points took scoring honors. V.P.I. took four first places, giving Davidson heaviest opposition in the field events. Davidson's high jump record was topped by 2 3/4 inches as Dougles of V.P.I. jumped 6 feet 2 inches.

The summary of the varsity results is as follows:

100 yard dash—First, Faison (D); second, Wilson (D); third, Wheedle (VPI). Time 10.5.

220 yard dash—First, Barrow (D); second, Mast (VPI); third, Faison (D). Time 20.2.

440 yard dash—First, Mast (VPI); second, Hickman (D); third, (VPI). Time 51.4.

880 yard run—First, Walker (D); second, Long (VPI); third, Eager (VPI). Time 24.7.

One mile—First, Long (VPI); second, Parcell (D); third, Woodward (D). Time 4:39.4.

Two mile—First, Walker (D); second, Brown (D); third, Draine (VPI). Time 10:38.8.

120 high hurdles—First, Wicker (D); second, Barrow (D); third, McMillin (VPI). Time 15.8.

200 low hurdles—First, Barrow (D); second, Wicker (D); third, McMillin (VPI). Time 26.7.

Pole vault—First, Sample (D); second, tie between Ellis (VPI) and Fort (D). Height 11'6".

Discus—First, Shockey (VPI); second, Cameron (VPI); third, Davis (VPI). Distance 138'3".

Shot put—First, Crisp (D); second, Davis (VPI); third, Shockey (VPI). Distance 40'.

Broad jump—First, Boyd (D); second, Davis (VPI); third, Melton (D). Distance 20'2".

High jump—First, Douglas (VPI); second, Ellis (VPI); third, Cameron (VPI). Height 6'2".

Javelin throw—First, Johnson (D); second, Cameron (VPI); third, J. D. Johnson (D). Distance 174'.

The Davidson varsity tennis team split two matches on their recent invasion of Virginia, and was on the point of winning another when it rained out. The win was scored over the powerful Hermitage Country Club netmen. The match with William & Mary was rained out, while the University of Virginia took the measure of the 'Cat racqueteers.

Results of the Hermitage Country Club match follow: Carlson defeated his man completely, winning 6-3, 6-1; Boggs mastered his opponent, winning 6-3, 6-1; Frampton dropped his match by scores of 6-4, 6-1; Reinhardt won in a hard-fought match 6-3, 4-6, 6-1; Woodward won handily 6-3, 6-2. In the second doubles, Boggs and Frampton playing at number 1 lost 6-4, 6-3; Woodward and Reinhardt dropped a hard match 6-3, 7-5; while Carlson and Kenney won 6-2, 7-5. Kenney was unable to play his singles match.

Results of the University of Virginia match show a nine to nothing decision for the Cavaliers. This year’s edition of the University of Virginia team is rated as the best in the history of that institution. Scores follow: Thompson defeated Carlson 6-2, 6-2; Mahoney defeated Kenney 6-2, 6-2. In the hardest match of the day, Fishburn edged out Frampton 7-5, 6-4, 6-4; Reinhardt fought a terrific battle but lost to Williams 6-2, 9-7; Henry defeated Woodward 6-4, 6-1; Reynolds dropped Woodward 6-3, 6-3. In the doubles—Thompson and Dunklin beat Carlson and Kenney 6-3, 6-0; Mahoney and Henry defeated Boggs and Frampton 6-0, 6-2; and Williams and Reynolds beat Reinhardt and Woodward 6-4, 6-1.

In the William and Mary match, Davidson was leading in all but one of the matches when rain called a halt to the proceedings.

Smoking in moderation might have a beneficial effect, says Dr. Arthur Binz, professor of chemistry at the University of Berlin. Coramine, a derivative of tobacco nicotine, stimulates the heart.

KNOCKABOUT

These stout shoes are “tops” with men for campus and country. Here’s a sturdy, handsome blucher in rough reversed leather, with crepe sole in a matching color. A faithful Crosby Square reproduction of a custom-made original, and a national favorite for golf, tramping, and knockabout wear. You can have your choice of our special selection of white, dark browns, and dark grays.

AS ADVERTISED IN ESQUIRE AND TIME MAGAZINES

Featured at J.B. IVEY & CO.