WEDNESDAY, MARCH 10, 1937 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Five

SIR HERBERT B. AMES, CANADIAN STATESMAN, TO PRESENT LECTURE TO MEMBERS OF I.R.C.
Former Member of Canadian Parliament Will Speak to Local Club
BANQUET FOLLOWS TALK
Speaker Is Prominent in League of Nations

Sir Herbert Brown Ames, prominent Canadian statesman and lecturer, has been secured to speak to the International Relations Club, it was announced at the meeting of that organization last Friday. Plans for the other programs to be held during the remainder of the semester were also made at the meeting.

The former member of the Canadian Parliament is to be here in the latter part of April and will lecture at the most outstanding of the club’s coming meetings. Traveling by motor through this section, he is to make a series of addresses to numerous other organizations similar to the I. R. C.

Give Banquet
Members of the club plan a banquet for both new and old members to follow Sir Herbert's address. It is hoped that the speaker will find time to visit and talk to history classes on the following day. An idea of the distinction of the visitor may be gained from the following sketch:

Public Service
Sir Herbert Ames is a Canadian, though at present living for the most part of the year in the United States of America. He has had a long and varied experience in public service. For eight years he was a member of the Montreal City Council. Then from 1904 to 1920, a continuous period of seventeen years, he represented his native city, Montreal, in the Dominion Parliament. He was chairman of the select Standing Committee on Banking and Commerce of that body for nine years.

War Duty
During the World War he was honorary secretary-general of the Canadian Patriotic Fund, which organization raised and distributed nearly $50,000,000 for the support of the wives and dependent relatives of Canadian soldiers. In 1919 Sir Herbert Ames was invited to assume the post of financial director or “treasurer” of the League of Nations Secretariat, then being organized in London. This position he filled from 1919 to 1926, living for six years at Geneva, the seat of the League.

Lecture Trips
Sir Herbert has visited and lectured in all the Canadian Colleges, and in more than one hundred and fifty American educational institutions. He speaks with authority and knowledge on the work of the League of Nations and associated topics. Sir Herbert has co-operated with the Carnegie Endowment every year since 1929 and is well known to International Relations Clubs throughout the country. The speaker's topic has not been chosen as yet, it is understood.

FOUR OUT OF FIVE COME TO Johnson’s Barber Shop
“A TRADITION OF DAVIDSON MEN”

FOR ECONOMICAL PRINTING CALL STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
117 GARLAND COURT TELEPHONE 3-5727 CHARLOTTE, N.C.

Davidson Symphonic Band Will Give Concert
DAVIDSON THEATER
Thursday, March 11
Three Smart Girls—Deanna Durbin, Nan Grey and Barbara Read, the three newcomers to the screen in a four-star picture. The story is about three girls who left a broken-hearted mother in Switzerland to come to the U.S. to prevent their father from marrying a gold-digger.

Friday, March 12
The Outcast—An entertaining picture about a social outcast and his struggles against society. Better see it!

Saturday, March 13
Don’t Turn ’Em Loose—Lewis Stone, James Gleason and Bruce Cabot in a swell prison picture. The reasons for keeping them prisoners and their attempts at escape is the plot.

Monday, March 15
The Crime Nobody Saw—Go to see if you can find the crime and try your ability as a detective.

Tuesday, March 16
You Live Only Once—Henry Fonda as an innocent man condemned to die gets a gun on the night of his execution and in an attempt to escape kills the priest. He flees to his wife, Sylvia Sidney.

DR. K. J. FOREMAN GUEST AT BREVARD
Speaks Before College Students on Subject of Christian Religion

Dr. Kenneth J. Foreman was a guest of Brevard College last Thursday and Friday, March 4 and 5. He spoke several times to the students of Brevard on the subject of Christian Religion. He made a series of three addresses to the students, several open forums, and some personal interviews. Dr. Foreman was the guest of Brevard at the request of the students themselves.

Brevard is a new school having only three years marked up to its credit. It was consolidated from Weaver College, Rutherford College, and Brevard Institute. It has excellent college preparatory courses and two years of college work. Its many varied courses lead to a classical education. The enrollment of Brevard is now 448 students. Dr. E. J. Coltrane is the president of this school. Brevard is in the center of many summer camps and has a perfectly beautiful scenic background.

Two Concerts
Glee Club and Orchestra To Present Concert at Converse College
BARITONE IS FEATURED
First Concert in Chambers, March 12th

During the week the Davidson Symphonic Band will present two concerts. The first will be given in Chambers Auditorium on Friday, March 12, at 8 P.M., while the second will be given at the same time on the following day in the Memorial Hall of Salem College in Winston-Salem. The first concert will feature Jack Tillotson, baritone soloist. Four pieces will be played before intermission, then following intermission four more will be rendered and the concert will close with “O Davidson.”

The concert to be presented at Winston-Salem is under the auspices of Troop 9 of the Winston-Salem Council of Boy Scouts of America. Featured on this program will be Louise Nelson Pfohl, pianist. The same arrangement of the program as in the first instance will be carried out.

The Glee Club and Little Symphony Orchestra will make a trip to Spartanburg on Thursday, where they will present a concert at Converse College. On the way to Spartanburg the two groups will present a program before the Kiwanis Club in Charlotte, and will be guests of this club at lunch.

THE YMCA PING PONG TOURNAMENT IS NEAR ITS FINAL STAGES
Cloyd, Frampton, Lindsey, and Tenney Are Remaining Contestants

The Y. M. C. A. Ping Pong tournamentis nearing its final stages. Of the sixty-one students who entered to battle for the prizes offered by College Humor magazine as well as for the honor of being the champion ping pongist, only four contestants remain. The men who have reached the semi-finals are: Harry Frampton, Rea Tenney, R. H. Lindsey, and Ed Cloyd. In the quarter-finals, Ken McLean, Locke White, “Bones” Woodward, and Sam Spencer were defeated by Frampton, Lindsey, and Cloyd. The score of all matches was 2-0, yet every contest was hard-fought and most of the games were decided by only a few points. The winner of the tournament will receive a gold medal and the runner-up a silver medal. Both finalists will be given a year’s free subscription to the magazine Table Tennis Topics and each finalist will be enrolled as a member of the National Table Tennis Association for twelve months.

Make Davidson's Centennial Program a Big Success.

Mokey Faison Room in Unique Manner

One of the most interesting, unique, and comfortable rooms on the campus is that of none other than Colonel Mokey Faison, popular referee and director of intramural athletics. Col. Faison has spent much time on making his room as cozy as possible. On the walls adorning Mokey's room are numerous pictures of football teams, track achievements, wild life scenes, and all other pictures available. But the pictures in his room hardly attract one’s attention. He has a large, comfortable divan, which he prizes out of all his possessions. On one side of this divan, there is a large new book rack which has on the top of it another of Col. Faison’s great hobbies. This is goldfish raising. Col. Faison bought two goldfish at the beginning of the school year and during the week of Mid-Winters, Faison’s fish were visited by the Maritime Stork! Faison was presented by the mother fish with five brand new guppies. Being Mid-Winters, Faison fitted the occasion by naming the new members of his family with the names of several Mid-Winters figures, namely Ed Armfield, Ken Knorr, Yates Faison, Tiger Jim Morton, and Teeny Lafferty. He cordially invites the student body to visit him and see these new additions to his family.

Among the other features of his room is naturally a radio, which he is paying for on the installment plan, and a pair of boxing gloves. Mokey, as we all know, entered a boxing tournament a few years back, but of what, we do not know. Another of his highly prized possessions is a pair of track shoes. These adorn his bed. With this, we leave Colonel Faison and we heartily nominate him as having the best room on the campus.

THOUGHTS FOR THE WISE

There is no worse combination than poor judgment and lots of enthusiasm. Of all the things you wear, your expression is the most important. People have a head for the same reason a pin does — to keep them from going too far.

The names of two University of Pennsylvania girls appeared by accident on the list of men of that institution accepted for fraternity rushing.

PATRONIZE DAVIDSON’S 5c & 10c STORE

SOUTHERN 5 & 10c Store

DESK LAMPS

STUDENTS ARE COSMOPOLITAN

Number of Boys Who Come From Distant Places Is On Increase

Figures from the registrar’s office show that Davidson students come from an increasingly large territory, especially since 1923. In that year, the college enrollment included students from seventeen states and two foreign countries. In 1928, the enrollment consisted of boys from 21 states and three foreign countries; by 1936, the states represented had increased to 25 and the foreign countries to seven. Students from southern states form 90 percent of the student body. Over a period of 13 years, North Carolina has supplied from 60 to 70 percent of the students with an enrollment of 375. South Carolina, with an average enrollment of 50, has been second. Georgia is third with an average of 35, although Virginia now holds third place. Virginia’s average of 26 is fourth, but close behind come Florida averaging 25 and Tennessee averaging 24.

Many Degrees Are Held By Davidson Professors

Fifteen Faculty Members Hold Ph.D. Degrees, and Thirty Have M.A.’s

DR. FOREMAN HAS MOST

Fourteen Have Attended University of Chicago

Davidson College can well afford to boast of its fine faculty, for, believe it or not, out of 42 members, 15 hold Ph.D. degrees, 30 have M.A. degrees, and all but 8 have A.B. degrees. Those are the science and mathematics professors, who of course hold B.S. degrees.

Advanced Work

Several members of the faculty hold the same degree from different colleges and universities. Most, after getting their degree, have studied at other places for summer sessions and short periods. The members of the faculty altogether have attended approximately 140 colleges and universities, or an average of three and a half apiece. Professor Blythe has been to the most, having attended eight. Drs. Foreman and Goldiere tie for second with six.

Dr. Foreman

Dr. K. J. Foreman, the James Sprunt Professor of Bible and Philosophy, holds the most degrees, with six. They are: A.B., M.A., S.T.B., S.Th.M., D.D., and Ph.D. Before the war, Davidson was qualified to confer the degree of Master of Arts. Seven members of the present faculty obtained that degree from their alma mater. They are: Dr. W. L. Lingle, Dr. W. J. Martin, Dr. Harding, Dr. John Douglas, Dean M. E. Sentelle, Dr. McConnell, and Professor E. J. Erwin. Twenty-eight faculty members got their A.B. here and came back to teach. Only four men on the faculty do not hold the degree of Doctor: Dr. Blythe, Dr. K. J. Foreman, Dr. M. E. Sentelle, and Dr. Richards.

University of Chicago

Five faculty members have attended the University of North Carolina, and one Duke. The University of Chicago seems to be the most popular among faculty members, 14 having attended it at one time or another. Columbia University runs it a close second, with 10 professors as graduates. Twenty foreign colleges and universities are represented on our faculty, Oxford claiming two, and a University in Madrid being represented by two: Professor Blythe and Dr. Goldiere.

IT’S SMART TO BE COMFORTABLE

One certain requisite of style this spring is comfort... casualness. Choose any one of Varsity-Town’s lounge group... “London Lounge,” “Castle Lounge,” or “Drapertown” and you’re easily “at ease” in the smartest models of the year. Varsity-Town lounge suits are priced comfortably, too! $29.50 to $35.00

Tate-Brown Co.
College Shop—Third Floor