Page Four

AWARDING OF STUDENTS OBSERVE 5 THE ery”? FOR THE DAVIDSONIAN TS AFIELD WEDNESDAY, MARCH 17, 1937

SPOTLIGHT SHINES ON SPRING SPORTS

YATES FAISON CAT-NIPS

As the final blast of Coach McEver’s whistle echoed over Richardson Field last Saturday afternoon, about forty weary trudged from the field and trooped into the dressing room. Half of this number were gay, but tired; the others were just tired. The Reds had beaten their arch-rivals, the Grays, in a game as dear to each as the traditional Wake Forest game is to the combined forces. The Red team was far superior on paper to its rival eleven—but only on paper. The Grays resented from the first, the superior attitude taken toward them. They wanted to make it hot for their foes—and boys, they did. After the Reds won the first game, there followed a scoreless tie, and two wins for these underdog Grays. This is the Grays’ count—the Reds said the count was tied. All depended on the final game! The game is described elsewhere on this page, but space is too limited to describe this great battle.

Grays Fight

The Reds boasted such names as Teeny Lafferty, Bailey Williams, Dave Warden, Fred Dennis, Bob Abell, and others, but Frank Harrison, Chubby King, Tubby Hand, George Richmond, John Sadler and the rest of the Grays paid no attention to names. They gave Lafferty and Williams and Co. a tough time of it.

Fall Prospects

Spring practice may appear only an out-of-season series of practice, but people who know will tell you football teams are made in the spring, not in the fall. Of course, we will miss Dick Johnston, John Lee, Ed Armfield and Tom Corbin, but when autumn rolls around the Wildcats will be just about as strong as this year if not stronger.

Baseball is now nearing the opening of its season. Pitchers have been limbering up—“warming the ole soupbone”—for about two weeks, and, as soon as the weather permits, they will start their spring task of trying to throw the balls by the batters.

Baseball Slants

Prospects point to a strong defensive team, while the hitting remains a question-mark. From outward appearances it appears the starting line-up includes: first base—Swede Johnston; second base—Okie Bank; shortstop—Bill Quick; third base—Asbury Howard; outfield—Teeny Lafferty, Jim Dickson and Fielding Clark. The battery will be made up of either J. D. Hicks or Herman Yearwood and a toss-up for catcher between Joe Kellam and Doug Neal.

Track Meet

The inter-fraternity track meet this week should be an interesting affair. Last year this event was sponsored by the intra-mural department for the first time. This is one of the best ways the track coaches can get a line on freshman prospects and some hitherto unknown upper-classmen are often discovered by Coach Whittle. Some of the longer distance events are cut down to take into consideration the lack of proper conditioning of the contestants.

“D” Club Change

Little notice has been given to the change, but the “D” Club has made a splendid change in its initiation. Formerly the men who represented Davidson on the athletic field were forced to undergo the ridicule and jeering of the underclassmen (especially freshmen). This was no proper reward! Now they will be recognized in a ceremony more fit for the occasion, with the destructive public horseplay omitted.

Golf Tourney

While all other sports are going forward, why not have a campus-wide golf tournament? It seems everyone is taking more and more to the old Scotch game, so the interest should be high. Then let the eight men in the quarter-finals compose a team to meet an eight-man team of faculty members. This would prove a real event of campus-wide interest. See you Junior Speaking!

Wildcat Golfers Prepare For Hard Links Campaign

Ross, Snow, Maples and Westall Lead Contenders For Team Berths

TO FORM SECOND TEAM

Challenge Matches To Be Held This Week

The 1937 Davidson golf team is rapidly rounding into form with Charlie Ross, Bill Snow, Hinson Maples, and Jimmy Westall leading the contenders at present for four respective positions. Captain Ralph McClelland and Raymond Pittman hold fifth and sixth berths. Play to decide who would compose the team took place over the Carolina links in Charlotte last week. Jimmy Westall pulled the biggest surprise in nosing out Captain McClelland for fourth place. Challenge rounds this week may alter the present standings, however. Other active threats are Hoke Robinson, Yates Faison, Stuart Barnes, Jack Tillotson, Tom Mullen, and Tom Henderson. Players ranking five through eight will compose a “B" team with the number five man alternating with the varsity four.

The Wildcats take on Hampden-Sydney in their initial engagement Tuesday on the Carolina course in Charlotte. Matches with Catawba and Richmond to be played next week were unexpectedly cancelled. The men are now in hard training to better last year's record which was the best in years. Only one letterman was lost and so the ‘Cats have an excellent opportunity to come through with another good season. Following their match with Hampden-Sydney the golfers entrip for Tennessee, Georgia and points south to face some of the best quartets in the east during the spring season's holidays. The tentative schedule for the season is as follows: March 1 to 13—varsity tryouts, 72 holes of medal play; March 23—Hampden-Sydney College in Charlotte at 2:00; March 26—University of Tenn. in Knoxville; March 27—Vanderbilt; March 29—Georgia Tech; March 30—Junior College of Augusta; March 31—U. of Georgia in Athens; April 1—Emory U. there; dates undecided, but in April: N. C. State; Texas, Yale, Dartmouth, Carolina here; and Southern Intercollegiate in Athens; April 29—N. C. State in Raleigh; April 30—State Tournament in Raleigh; May 1—Carolina there; May 4—The Citadel in Charlotte; May 7—Tin Whistles Country Club in Pinehurst; May 8—Southern Conference; in May undecided—Georgia Tech and South Carolina; May 15—U. of Georgia.

Davidson Wrestlers Win Monogram

Nine Receive the Varsity “D;” Managers Elected

Jack Branch, manager of this year’s wrestling team, announced in chapel last week that Jerry Harris, of Oxford, N. C., has been named wrestling manager for the 1938 season. At the same time it was made known that Terrell Porter and Ken Campbell would serve as junior managers. Howard McFadyen, 185-pound wrestler in the unlimited class who lost only two matches this season and was the squad’s most consistent point winner, was elected captain of the 1938 wrestlers. Coach Parks Harrison awarded the varsity “D” to Bob Blue, Charlie Sears, Captain Charlie Parker, Leonard Fort, Ed Ellis, Lock Vass, and Captain-elect Howard McFadyen. Jack Branch received a manager’s letter and Ben Clark won a letter of service. The following freshmen were also cited for winning their freshman numerals in wrestling: Bill Masters, Tommy Wells, Dan Isom, Hugh (Continued on Page 5)

Varsity Monograms To Hardwood Stars

Eight members of the Davidson varsity basketball squad were awarded letters at the conclusion of the 1936-37 season. Among these were four seniors, one junior and three sophomores. Captain Clifford C. Quick and Maurice Peabody were awarded letters for their third straight year; John Armstrong and Bill Hancock, two junior college men, and Bill Kiesewetter, a junior, won letters for the second straight year; J. D. Hicks, Ned Iverson, and Johnny Tice were the sophomores honored. The team ended the season with thirteen wins and ten losses. Wake Forest and Carolina were

SEEDED TENNIS STARS IN TOURNAMENT

Quarter Final Matches of Varsity Tourney to Be Played Off Soon

Captain Carl Carlson and Bronston Kenney, seeded one and two respectively, stroked their way into the quarter-final round of the varsity tennis tournament last week without being extended in their early round matches. Jimmie Reinhardt, Lloyd Feuchtenberger, “Bones” Woodward, Harry Frampton, and Wilson Northcross also made the round of eight, while the remaining berth will be filled by the winner of the Wade Boggs-Ed Cloyd match. The only major upset of the tournament was the defeat of Perry Sloan, seeded number five, by Lloyd Feuchtenberger in a gruelling three-set match. After each man had captured an 8-6 set, Feuchtenberger showed his stamina by coming back to annex the deciding set 6-1. Sloan conquered Lloyd in the fall tournament but was unable to repeat Friday. Wilson Northcross definitely established himself as a tournament threat by trouncing George Jones 6-2, 6-2, in one of the best played matches thus far. Both men were considered good varsity material, but the smooth stroking and steady playing of Northcross against his freshman team-mate of last year established him as the dark horse of the tournament. “Bones” Woodward and Jimmie Reinhardt annexed easy victories over Torry McLean and Locke White respectively, but third-seeded Harry Frampton met a tartar in Owen Cooke and had to put on a tremendous uphill fight to win after losing the first set at love. Quarter-final matches pit Carlson vs. Reinhardt, Kenney vs. Woodward, Frampton vs. Northcross, and Feuchtenberger vs. the winner of the Boggs-Cloyd match. If the weather permits the finals will be played the last of this week.

Softball Is Coming

Softball, most popular of WildcatIntramural sports are scheduled to open immediately after spring holidays. Election of captains of the four class teams will be held soon. Umpire for the games will be A. M. Cumbie. They will be held on the intramural athletic field as usual. The junior nine champions, last year and runners-up in their freshman year, will defend their championship laurels. The sophomores, after a year’s experience, will offer stiffer competition this year and will be out to avenge their shove into the basement last year. The veteran centennial baseballers, after trying for second place last year, will strive for the championship they held as sophomores.

415 South Tryon Street
PAUL & CRYMES, INC.
SPORTING GOODS
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

1937 GRIDIRON CAPTAIN

Shown above is Bailey Williams who will lead the Wildcats in their 1937 football campaign. Bailey came to Davidson from Darlington School, Rome, Ga., where he was a four-letter man. Williams played end for the freshman team his first year here, and by his brilliant play broke into the varsity lineup in that position his sophomore year. At the close of the 1936 season, the members of the squad showed their confidence in him by electing him to the captaincy for the next season. Williams was tentatively shifted to the blocking back post for the coming season, but due to the failure of Morris Freeman to return to school, he was kept at the end position. He is expected to make a strong bid for All-State and other honors.

Coach Whittle Primes Cindermen Against Catawba

Davidson's varsity track season will get under way here on Saturday at 2 o'clock, when they meet the Catawba Indians. Heath Whittle, varsity track coach, said that this will be more or less a practice meet, because neither team is in very good shape. This is the first meet of the season for both teams. Those who will take part in the meet for Davidson are as follows:

100 yard dash—Faison, Dickson, and Wilson.
220 yard dash—Faison and Wilson.
440 yard dash—Hickman, Bixler, and Melton.
880 yard run—Poe, Paterson, and Turner.
One mile run—Woodward, Parcell, and Pharr.
Two mile run—Walker, Brown, Telford, and Mack.
High hurdles—Wicker and Barrow.
Low hurdles—Wicker and Barrow.
Broad jump—Dickson, Peabody, and Melton.
High jump—Barrow, Dickson, Peabody, and Wicker.
Pole vault—Fort, Sample, Purdy, and Peabody.
Shot Put—Warden, Miller, Hunter, and Johnston.
Discus—Johnston, Iverson, and Moore.
Javelin—Johnston, Moseley, Sears, and Vause.

Whittle said this morning that he did not know how the freshman track team would be this year, but he is awaiting the intra-fraternity track meet which is to be held this week. He will pick the best freshman entries from this meet and will (Continued on Page 5).

PATRONIZE DAVIDSON’S 5 & 10¢ STORE
SOUTHERN 5 & 10¢ Store
DESK LAMPS

Davidson Tracksters to Initiate Season Saturday

Freshmen to Have Golfers

Eight Yearlings Try Out For Links Team

Prospective members of the Wildkitten golf team are swinging away on Davidson's links, preparing to put up a hard fight for the places on the team. Several freshmen responded to a call for prospective members issued at chapel last Friday. The team will finance its own trips this year. Frosh numerals will be awarded to four members. Beginning on April 5th, there will be a 36-hole medal tournament to determine the four members of the team. Prospects look good as the candidates prepare for this tournament. One match with Oak Ridge has already been arranged for the team. They also hope to arrange for matches with Salisbury, Winston-Salem, and Greensboro high schools. Charlie Ross, one of the varsity lettermen, has charge of the frosh this year. The eight men who have already come out for the team are Bill Burch, George Coates, Jim Cooper, Tom Crichton, Dick Henning, Gales McClintock, Charlie Pegram, and John Throupe. These candidates are practicing daily, getting in shape for their tournament in April.

The Tavern’s Looking at You

WITH all this yipping we’ve been doing about the Main Dining Room, and the orchestra, and all that—we think we see more Davidson Men, all the time, in The Tavern. The—er—noble way you've eaten up the news about the MDR, and come right in, doesn't seem to have diminished The Tavern’s quota of Davidsonians at all. Thank you, heaps! Of course, The Tavern’s the one and only for fellows who are in Charlotte—especially on Saturday nights, when things are easier, sort of, for a college man. But when you're Doing the Handsome, with Lady Bright-Eyes along—then, Friends, we'd say the Main Dining Room, and music and dancing, are indicated. On Saturday nights, y’know, you can dance till 11. No cover charge then, either. Keep coming.

HOTEL CHARLOTTE

Reds Defeat Greys In Saturday’s Encounter

NUMERALS AWARDED 9 FROSH BASKETEERS

At the end of the season, Coach Chet Chapman announced that nine members of the yearling quint had won their numerals. Heading this list were Bennet Harrison and Jim Thomas who shared honors as co-captains. Other frosh players receiving their numerals were: Tony Casali, Tommy Glenn, and Bob Wood, forwards; Bobby Phipps and George Ficklen, centers; and Rea Tenney and Tom Harnsberger, guards. The Wildkittens were not so successful in the win and loss column as the varsity aggregation.

ASPIRANTS FOR BASEBALL TEAM SHOW PROMISE

Many Veterans Return; Newcomers Wage Fight For Positions

The Wildcat baseball team is coming along nicely and will probably be better than last year’s, according to Coach Flake Laird. There are several candidates for nearly every position and some hot fights will be waged before the starting lineup for the first game is announced. The catching post will be well taken care of by Joe Kellam and Doug Neal, veterans of last season. Herman Yearwood is the only letterman on the pitching staff, but will be reinforced by J. D. Hicks and Parker Connor from last year’s frosh nine, Fielding Clark, converted outfielder who looks like a prospective hurler, John Armstrong, and Charlie Parker. At first base, Swede Johnson has been looking good, but Coach Laird is planning to give Teeny Lafferty, veteran centerfielder, a trial here. At second base, Shorty Bankhead and Sam Hemphill are the leading candidates. Bankhead was a regular last year, while Hemphill was a star on the frosh team. Captain Bill Quick, Eddie Steere, and Elwood Moyer are on the inside track for the shortstop position. Asbury Howard seems to have things pretty much his own way at third base. Last year’s regular outfield is back again composed of Fielding Clark, Teeny Lafferty, and Jim Dickson, but Laird is giving Clark a trial on the mound and Lafferty a shot at first base. If they come through at these positions, their shoes will be filled by Parks Hand, John Rudisill, Dick Lindsey, Jim Terry, or John Irwin. The team looks strong defensively and Coach Laird is now searching for some power at the plate. Eddie Steere has been hitting nicely and if he keeps it up will be shifted to the outfield. The team will be well balanced with regard to left and right-handed hitters. Those who swing from the port side are (Continued on Page 5).