Page Six THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, APRIL 28, 1937

Going Once, Going Twice, Going Three Times, Sold!

President of Student Body To Auction Lost and Found Articles

SALE TO BE HELD SOON

Articles Will Be Displayed At Student Store

Step Lively Folks! Don't Crowd, there's plenty of room. 25 1-2, 25 1-2, who'll raise 25 1-2. The man in
the derby says 30. Going for 30. Going once; going twice; going three times. SOLD, to the man in the
derby for 30. That's what the auctioneer will be saying pretty soon.

If, in case you don't know what this is all about, down at the Student Store, articles that have been
lost and found will be auctioned off. The articles include everything from basketballs to umbrellas. Students who have lost items
should claim them before the auction.

J. L. Ballard will be in Washington, D.C. this week to sit with a committee.

Mrs. Scott C. Lyon, her daughter, Mrs. Phillip Slaughter, and her grandson, Scott, have gone to Atlanta to visit Mrs.
Lyon’s mother, Mrs. Miss Bona Potts, who in the past five months is reported to have been ill. Miss Potts
recently returned from the Charlotte Sanatorium to her home on Saturday. She is reported to be getting along well.

ATTEND PRESBYTERIAL MEETING IN HICKORY

DR. LINGLE SPEAKS AT (Continued from Page 3)

Dr. Lingle preached at the meeting. He spoke about the importance of faith and community.

DR. H. W. DUBOSE TALKS (Continued from Page 3)

Dr. DuBose discussed the beauty of faith and the prophet's role in guiding the community. He emphasized that there is
no breach of God's hedge without penalty.

Do your part to make Davidson's Centennial Program a SUCCESS!

TOWNSPEOPLE WILL (Continued from Page 3)

Broadway, Frank Brown, Clark, Billy Crooks, J. C. Wilbur Edwards, Major Crowell, Lawrence Hill, Teeny Lafferty, Harry McLaughlin, Bancroft Moseley,
Dave Sellars, Gib Smith, Bob Stewart, Daymond.

LOCAL CIVIC OFFICIALS

DR. KIRK TO GIVE ADDRESS (Continued from Page 1)

FOUR SENIORS AND SIX JUNIORS GIVEN BIDS (Continued from Page 1)

A. M. “Mokey” Faison, of Durham, N.C., was the first man to be pledged. “Mokey” has made himself popular by
managing intramural sports this year and is a member of the “D” Club. The second senior inducted was “Snozz” Hill,
of Richmond, Va. Hill is president of the Y. M. C. A., a varsity debater, and a member of Kappa
Sigma.

Next came Jim Dorsett, editor of the annual for next year, from Greensboro. He is a track manager and belongs
to Pi Kappa Alpha. The third senior was Russell Patterson of Memphis, Tenn., who last year was track manager and
belongs to Phi Gamma Delta. The last of the seniors to be led to the platform was Ken Scott, a
popular pianist from China. Scott plays in the orchestra, was captain of the soccer team, and is president of the
senior class. He is a track star, actor, and member of Kappa Sigma.

ANNUAL BOWERY BALL WITH DAILEY’S MUSIC

Mason, Greensboro, with Billy Hill, Kappa Sigma; Miss Grace Clark, Elizabethtown, with Rebecca McRee, Trenton, Tenn., with Russell Delta; Miss
Dorothy Wade, Atlanta, Ga., with Jack Branch, Phi Delta Theta; Miss Evelyn McCarty, Turner, Sigma Phi Epsilon.

Chaperons for the event include the following Davidson faculty members: Dr. and Mrs. S. C. Lyon, Dr. and Mrs. Frazier
Hood, Dr. and Mrs. G. R. Vowles, Dr. and Mrs. P. H. Hill, Prof. and Mrs. W. W. Wood, Prof.
and Mrs. Frontis Johnston, Prof. and Mrs. Chalmers Davidson, Col. and Mrs. J. T. Sentelle, Maj. and Mrs. G. W.
Seifert, and Maj. and Mrs. M. L. Haywood.“Tee Lafferty, of Ballard, Coach and Mrs. N. W. Shepard, Coach and Mrs.
A. H. Gwynn, Pi Kappa Phi; Miss Re- Converse at a coterie of able men; third, C.; Coker College, Davidson’s
four greatest benefactors, and to the French Department here. I have never attempted to influence the educational policy of Davidson
College. Davidson had the courage to go forward with the little that they had, doing the best they could and
trusting in God to back them up. Professor Currie expressed the opinion that the students of Davidson would make it
a success in so far as it is possible for them to do so.

In conclusion, the president of the junior class said, “I believe and I believe to make a century.”

FRENCH CLUB GIVES (Continued from Page 1) seal by Peter Stuart Ney, was also in reference to the Centennial 26th
of April, the Concord Alumni meeting, Whittle, Coach and Mrs. E. T. Mc- Schedule for the weekend would include a
Friday tea dance from five to seven; the Military Ball, Friday night, ten till two; Saturday tea dance from eighty-thirty
till twelve; and the Bowery Ball Saturday night.

FOUNDERS’ DAY (Continued from Page 1) to work; second, Davidson institution—an advantage which other colleges have not had; Davidsonville, S.C.

On Monday night, the Me- (Continued from Page 1) countries. Smith attended. Ph.D., LL.D., president of Davidson from 1912 through
1929, graduated from this college in 1888. He was a professor here before his presidency. Dean Laing is Canadian by
birth. He is widely known as a classical scholar, having served as dean of the division of Humanities at the
University of Chicago for several years. Bing Crosby has been elected president of the Los Angeles Alumni Association of his
alma mater, Gonzaga.

WSOC WILL BROADCAST RADIO SKETCHES SOON (Continued from Page 1) Stuart Ney. Scripts are by A. R. Cates and Pete
McKnight, and include a study of the latest developments. The fourth, by C. L. Brown, on May 20, tells of
Maxwell Chambers' famous courier service from Charleston, S.C., and his gift for the first Chambers building. On May 27, Professor
Foreman’s account of student life during the student days of Woodrow Wilson will be given. Mrs. J. P. Williams is
preparing the script for June, which deals with the origin of the fire that destroyed the old Chambers building in
1921, and scenes occurring during and after the burning. All students are urged to tell friends and relatives of these
programs and to give their hearty support to the entire movement.

ROB ROY PURDY IS (Continued from Page 3) of English. The one-year scholarship which he has just recently won was
due to the great amount of work which he has done in the Department of English at Davidson. At Vanderbilt,
two of his courses will be Old English and Chaucer taught by Dr. Currie, and a study of Nineteenth Century
English which Dr. Mims teaches.

Founded 1812 UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY RICHMOND, VA. B. R. LACY, JR., D.D., President. A student at Union Seminary has the
benefit of association with a Student Body drawn from 42 colleges and universities, 19 states, and 3 foreign countries.

The student is a main- m, and is a juniors selected was “itth of tl onian for next year. He
is an active member of Sigma Phi Epsilon fraternity. Last of the class of '38 to be chosen was Bailey
Williams, Clinton, S.C., next year’s captain of the football team, and a star on the team. He is a member
of Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity. Colonel Rhett, of the faculty, was when his election fraternity. At the same time, bids
have been extended to six men to become honorary members of ODK. All have accepted. Those who have accepted are
Dr. Hubert Poteat, professor at Wake-Forest; the fi I Burney, pastor of the Presbyterian Church; and Guille, '23, officer at
Wachovia Bank and Trust. Dean S. H. Cook at THRIz and IOD will help and Iv re la Dr ta
il speccl 1 TO QUEENS STUDENTS. A Midsummer Night's Dream, a playlet, written for the occasion. Remember to attend to
the responsibilities. An end to the day's activities was a ball at Queens by Davidson. It was given in answer
to the request by students here for more social life on the campus. The plan originated in O.D.K., and was
adopted by the student body as a whole. Members of these committees who arranged for the program, entertainment, and decorations
are as follows: General committee — Joe Hunter, Wilbur Edwards, Walt Dickson, and Jim Morton. Decorating committee — ‘Teeny’ Lafferty,
chairman; Charlie Sears, Bobby Peters, Philip Arrowsmith, and Bill McIlwinen.

Copyright 1937, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.

Going East... or going West... Chesterfield satisfies them. Men like them... women like them. Way out in Goose Creek Junction,
you meet up with men who tell you that Chesterfields are milder... you see ladies who tell you how good
they taste and what a pleasing aroma they have. In the Big Town, you see lots of empty packages. That
means that pack after pack of refreshingly mild, good-tasting Chesterfields have satisfied hundreds... maybe thousands.”
