SCRIPTS AND PRANKS TO UNVEIL MYSTERY OF PAINTED TANK

VOL. XXV

Faculty Approves Four Dance Sets
Course Open for Students During Pan-Hellenic

Petition Approved By Committee In Meeting Yesterday

ENDS PERTINENT ISSUE. Two Sets To Be Given Each Semester

The faculty committee, in a meeting at 4:30 yesterday, passed the petition presented to them by the Pan-Hellenic Council. The granted petition asked for four dance sets including two night dances per set during the coming year, instead of two full sets and two one-night dances. This faculty ruling marks the close of the dance question which has been a most pertinent one on the campus for some time. This petition was passed with the understanding that these dances shall constitute the complete dance program of the year. This ruling does not affect the previously made rule about fraternity house parties.

Home-Coming Set

Since the petition was passed the Homecoming dances on November 5 and 6 will be the first of the two set dances to be given this semester. The Midwinters set will be the first two-night set of the second semester. The time for the other two has not yet been decided definitely. The dance situation has been of great interest to the students and faculty alike during the month that it had been undecided and the decision is the culmination of this much-discussed question. The petition was compiled by the council and presented to the executive committee who referred it to the faculty committee who have passed it. The council had in mind in presenting the petition the obtaining of a more lenient ruling on the situation.

Fire Damages Local Hostel

Two Stores Adjoining College Inn Razed By An Early Morning Fire

Fire! Fire! No, it wasn't feminine, but genuine flames when the College Inn, formerly the Davidson Hotel, was partially damaged by fire early last Saturday morning. The meat market and the grocery store adjoining the Inn were completely demolished by the flames while quick work by firemen and others limited the greatest part of the Inn's detriment to the north side of the hotel.

The fire was discovered by an occupant of a northside room in the Inn when he awoke to find flaming curtains blowing across his bed. The alarm was immediately given and the local firefighters summoned. When the size of the blaze was ascertained the Mooresville Fire Department was also called in. The cause of the flames is as yet unknown, and it is thought that the blaze was discovered some time after it began. The chief damage to the hotel was the room which was burnt. Other parts of the establishment suffered loss from water and smoke. The dining room, which received quite a bit of injury, will be remodeled, according to the management.

Professor Blythe, Dr. Foreman, and Professor Theis, of the Davidson College faculty, aided the firemen greatly by organizing bucket brigades and removing property. The College Inn is under the management of Mrs. Annye Strickland. The damage caused by the fire necessitated suspension of business at the Inn for several days, however, things were in full swing again at the first of the week. Estimators from the company which held insurance for the structure were here to make adjustments.

This Year JOURNALIST

Courtesy Charlotte Observer.

Fred Smith, shown above, will begin his pedagogical career at Davidson soon, when he initiates a journalism course for interested students.

No Fees Nor Textbooks Required; Attendance Will Be Voluntary

FRED SMITH TO TEACH

New Course To Be Held One Night Each Week

Conrad Frederick Smith, alumni secretary and publicity director at Davidson, announced Monday that he would conduct a one-hour course in practical and experimental journalism for any students who are interested in the subject. A meeting will be called after chapel in the near future to find how many students wish to enroll. The new course, which will be in no way connected with regular courses, will be held in one of the classrooms in Chambers one night a week. The time of meeting will be decided by the group, but Smith said that he expected to hold it about the middle of the week. There will be no fee for the course and there will be no textbooks. The only obligations, Mr. Smith stated, will be attention in class and a willingness to co-operate. Although attendance will not be absolutely compulsory, members of the group will be expected to be present regularly. The course will comprise, he announced, the gathering, reporting, and editing of news, feature, and (Continued on Page 5)

Dramatists Begin Work

“The Bishop Misbehaves” Will Be First Play

The Red and Black Masquers are getting in full swing for what promises to be the most successful year in the history of Davidson dramatics. Tryouts are to be held the latter part of this week for the well-known play, “The Bishop Misbehaves.” It is a humorous story about a clever bishop who tires of clerical life and decides to have some fun about town. He goes to a “pub” where he finds himself in the center of some exciting activities which he cleverly takes advantage of.

Almost thirty new men have signed up to take an active part in playmaking this year and there is expected to be a great deal of competition for both acting parts and stage work since membership to the Masquers is won by merit points. After the first play, three interesting one-act plays will be presented for both the entertainment of the students and to test the ability of the new men. “The Bishop Misbehaves” was to have been given last spring but it conflicted with the Centennial pageant. Therefore, all the material has been saved for use this year.

Last year the Masquers presented “Midsummer Night's Dream” again on Queens Day. It was presented to the student body.

Phi Bete Sets New Averages For Members

Student Must Make Grade of 92 For Membership

The local chapter of Phi Beta Kappa, national honorary scholarship fraternity, has adopted some new resolutions with regard to student membership in the fraternity. The chapter voted:

(1) That the Executive Committee, in considering candidates for initiation as members in course, shall make up its own numerical averages. For that purpose, the following equivalents shall be adopted for the present letter grades: A plus, 98; A, 96; B plus, 92; B, 88; C plus, 82; C, 78; D, 72; I, 65; and F, 30. Grades for attendance, R.O.T.C., Physical Education, Glee Club, Orchestra, and Concert Band be eliminated from consideration.

(2) That a student must make an average of at least 92 to be considered for membership in Phi Beta Kappa.

(3) That an average above 95 in the fall and above 93 in the spring shall entitle a student to automatic election, provided the other requirements for membership are met.

Transfers Discussed

The committee was instructed to continue its study in the status of transfer students, a problem which has been of considerable trouble to the fraternity in past years. These new numerical averages that have been adopted will somewhat alter the averages compiled in Mr. Hengeveld’s office.

Fall Alumni Journal Will Appear This Week-End

The first Alumni Journal of the current year will make its appearance either on Friday or Saturday of this week, according to Fred Smith, Alumni Secretary. Several articles by Davidson men will feature the Journal, which will be bound by a photograph made by Mr. Smith. Chiefly among the articles will be a collection of interviews of Professor Ernest Beaty by Mr. Smith. These interviews deal with the current conditions of the working class of people in Italy. Mr. Smith stated that it will throw inside light on the political situation in Italy at the present time.

Dr. George F. Robertson '78 also has an article which tells of the life of a student in Davidson during the seventies. Also, a new anecdote on Woodrow Wilson will be given. This article is illustrated with pen and pencil sketches by Roy Ritzell. Another article dealing with national policies will be included.

Newspaper Takes Poll of Politics On Affairs

Voice Opinion On Appointment of Black And On Next Election

THIRD TERM UNPOPULAR

Policy To Quarantine Warring Nations Liked

Last Monday morning at chapel time, the student body voted on five questions concerning national policies. This poll was conducted by the editorial staff of the Davidsonian. The first question was: would you have voted for Roosevelt in the last presidential election? To this question, 435 answered with yes, and 132 answered with no. Thus the majority were for F.D.R.

To the second question, would you vote for him now if of age, there were 461 positive and 94 negative votes. Therefore, his popularity has even increased since election time.

Supreme Court

Changing tone to a recent affair, the third question asked if you were in accord with F.D.R.'s recent appointment of Black as a Supreme Court Justice. The slim majority were in accord with the appointment. There were 345 for and 200 against.

No Third Term

Are you in favor of a third term for Roosevelt? This was the fourth question. In spite of his present popularity, 451 are against his serving a third term. Yet 105 are in favor of it.

The largest majority of all was in accord with the principle of quarantining war-mad nations. The general public is still in the dark concerning Roosevelt's “Quarantine” policy, but in principle, the Student Body approves. For this reason, the policy may carry much weight.

Photos Taken For Yearbook

Raleigh Studio Is In Charge Of Pictures For Quips And Cranks

Pictures of every member of the student body are being taken in the parlor of Watts this week for Quips and Cranks, the college yearbook. Dunbar and Daniel, photographers of Raleigh, are in charge of making the student pictures.With Davidson men who have gone far in the scientific field, is written by Professor Avery Patton. This is a review of the scientists who have achieved something in the Physics and Chemistry fields. Several other smaller articles appear also, and Mr. Smith stated that he expected this to be one of the best issues in the history of the Journal. These photographers made the annual pictures last year, and as a result of their good work were awarded the contract for this year. Personal appointments for every student have been made by various members of the staff. This helps avoid much confusion and gives ample time for each boy to have a five-minute period for the taking of his picture. The Seniors began on Monday to have their pictures taken, and the three lower classes are following in descending succession. It is expected that the paper will be an article relating the experiences of the painter of the town water tank, by the painter himself. Besides the feature article, which Kyburn is confident will be awaited with eager expectation by the students, it has already been announced by the Board yesterday that there will be an article about Roosevelt’s recent foreign policy, suggesting that “Quarantined” is the public reason. The results of this question do not appear in the magazine. 

The magazine will be overflowing with stories, snapshots, and cartoons centered around a general theme of Homecoming. An interesting addition to the magazine will be a snapshot page showing candid shots here and there on the campus. Pictures printed will be among those entered in the snapshot contest. Mr. F. W. Hengeveld, whose picture appears above, is the director of the new Placement Bureau of Davidson College, which is making an effort to find jobs for Seniors. 

ROTC Leader

The best-drilled junior R.O.T.C. officer at Davidson will be selected by the senior officers sometime this winter, according to M. Lafferty, Cadet Major of the local battalion. The man to be thus honored will lead the platoon when the juniors go to camp next summer. During the six-week period, the platoon leader will drill in competition with similar groups from other schools. The selection of the drill platoon leader during the school year is a new idea here, and it is part of a plan to improve the showing of the cadets in the competitions. The man chosen will receive a saber. He will be given an opportunity to drill his classmates for possibly one hour a week during the spring.

Practice Needed

Last year, according to Lafferty, the platoons met by the Davidson cadets were largely from military schools such as the Citadel and Clemson, and the representatives of this school showed the fact that they had more drill practice than their competitors. The plan now presented is designed to overcome that handicap. Any of the junior officers are eligible for the honor. It is hoped that it will prove a stimulus to the men, states Lafferty. In the past, the leader of the platoon was elected by the men upon their arrival at camp, and often he had little or no experience in the capacity he was called on to fill. Last year Jim Wilson was selected.

Placement Work For Coming Year

Seniors And Recent Alumni Will Receive Work Through Bureau

TEACHERS ARE SCARCE

All Eligible Applicants Placed Last Season

Mr. Hengeveld, College Registrar, who is in charge of the College Placement Bureau, designed to help seniors and recent alumni in obtaining positions, reports that he has already started work for the coming year. It was under his direction last year, and had the most successful year of its history. After several trials with other managements, this Bureau was placed under the direction of the Registrar, and was so successful last year that within a week after Commencement all seniors who were eligible for jobs had been supplied with one, either in a business or teaching position. Mr. Hengeveld said that last year they had only half enough boys qualified to make this a permanent feature of the magazine. 

There are two faculty committees who have this definitely in charge, Prof. Gwynn being in charge of the committee on teaching positions, and Prof. Williams in charge of the one on business positions. The records and files for these two committees are grouped in the Registrar’s office, and all applications from students and interested alumni should be sent to the office. The Registrar will work in collaboration with Professors Gwynn and Williams in locating those whose applications are on file. At the present time, application blanks have been distributed to the Senior class. It is necessary that these blanks be on file in the office for a student to be considered, and it will be of great help to the Bureau if they are filed by Christmas holidays. The Bureau also hopes to continue its work in the coming year.

Bulletin Out For October, Important Questions Of Fall Session Discussed

In the most recent Davidson College Bulletin, published monthly by the college, Dr. Walter L. Lingle, Davidson's president, has answered some pertinent questions which the friends of Davidson have been asking. The first question was concerning the opening of school this fall. Dr. Lingle answered this query by telling the record enrollment of 669 students this fall, the dormitories which are filled to capacity, and the many desirable students who had to be turned away from applying late. He also told of the successful Orientation Program which was held for the Freshman Class. The second question was concerning Homecoming. The date this year will be November 6, the day of the Davidson-North Carolina football game, and it will be a holiday for students, alumni, and friends of the college. In the next question about the Centennial Movement, word was given mainly to the progress of the Centennial fund. Since May 1, 1937, a total of about $80,000.00 has been contributed or subscribed to the office, and served at Fort McClelland in Anniston, Alabama.

Alcoholics Frowned On At Many Football Games

Washington, D.C. (CPS)—President and other officials, in a study of drinking at football games, found that alcoholic exhibitionists are in for a squelching this fall if plans of the nation’s big-time football colleges materialize. Colleges in the Big Ten conference are distributing to patrons programs stating that those who insist on “bringing their own liquor” will be distinctly unwelcome. Ushers are being instructed to stop drinking in the stadium and refuse admission to holders of tickets who are intoxicated and to throw out anyone violating drinking restrictions. 

The American Football Coaches Association, together with college presidents and other officials, found that there is no drinking problem by cadets or officers at the Military Academy. In Texas and other Southwestern States, college officials believe in the use of strong-arm methods. Before games start, a ban on drinking in the stands is broadcast over a radio system, and then hundreds of policemen, stationed among the spectators, enforce the ban. 

At West Point, officers insist that there is no drinking problem here, because that would be bad manners and it just isn’t being done. The entire work will be completed by the end of this week. Some member of the staff is always present while the pictures are being made. When a student enters the parlor of Watts, he is questioned as to his full name, home address, and fraternity by the staff member. All this information is placed on an individual card and a complete file and record of every student is being kept. A separate file is being made for seniors with a full list of their activities for their entire four years. Members of the staff—freshmen and sophomores—alternate in one-hour periods from 9 to 12 in the morning, 1:30 to 6 in the afternoon, and 7 to 10 at night.

Mellen to Play Homecoming Fall Dance Set Will Add Spice To Annual Davidson-Carolina Clash

The Pan Hellenic Council has secured Milt Mellen and his orchestra to play for the Homecoming dances, November 5 and 6. The set is to consist of two dances, a Friday night formal dance and a Saturday night informal. Mellen played for his first time at Davidson dances last year for the Junior Speaking set and it is upon the popularity that he enjoyed during this initial appearance that he has been secured again. The twelve-piece orchestra has recently played for dances at the University of Virginia, the Pika Easter Ball at N.C. State, and the University of Maryland and has proved very popular at all these schools. During the summer, the band had a six-week engagement at the Club Edgewood, Albany, N.Y., followed by an engagement at the Totem Pole Ballroom in Boston, Mass. Then journeying South, Mellen played at the Isle of Palms, Charleston, S.C. He is engaged to play for the University of Richmond dances in October. The set tickets will soon go on sale and the price will be four dollars for the two dances. The individual dances will be two and a half dollars. The Friday night formal dance will last from 10 to 2 and there will be a figure. The Saturday night informal will last from 8 to 12. The Council announces that the tickets for the Midwinters dance set will go on sale as soon as the faculty makes their decision on the dance situation. The price of the set ticket for Midwinters will be seven dollars.