Alumni Secretary To Offer Homecoming Decorations Award

VOL. XXV

Seven Men to Compete For Rhodes Scholarship

Boggs, Hill, Street, Kiesewetter, Vowles, Reinhardt, McKnight Apply

SEVEN MEN TO COMPETE

Five States Are Represented By Applicants

Davidson has seven men who will try out in their respective states for the Rhodes Scholarship appointments, according to Dr.
G. R. Vowles, head of the Rhodes Scholarship committee. Wade Boggs, Heywood Hill, Watson Street, Bill Kiesewetter, Richard Vowles, Jim
Reinhardt, and Pete McKnight have all made their intentions known to try out for the famous scholarship. Dr. Vowles stated
that this was a small number of applicants in accordance with the number applying in former years. He also stated
that the executive committee has, in writing, these applications, and would pass on them at their next meeting. After the
executive committee has passed on them, the men must appear before their respective state committees on either December 16 or
18. If any of these men pass a state committee, they will then have to appear before a district committee.
Two men are selected to act as Rhodes Scholars from each district, making a total of 32 Rhodes scholars per
year.

Boggs will appear before the committee in Louisiana, Street in Alabama, Kiesewetter in Pennsylvania, Hill in Virginia, and Vowles, Reinhardt,
and McKnight in North Carolina. Davidson’s most recent Rhodes scholar was Carleton B. Chapman, who won the distinction in 1936.

Dr. E. Smith Talks Sunday

Retired Foreign Missions Secretary to Discuss Orient

The Rev. Dr. Egbert W. Smith will be the speaker at the chapel services next Sunday evening. His subject will
be on Japan; in the morning he will be heard at the Davidson Presbyterian Church discussing mission work in China.
Mr. Smith is an authority on the Far East, having been the secretary of Foreign Missions of the Southern Presbyterian
Church for many years. He has written widely on mission work in the Orient, and his book, “The Creed of
Presbyterians,” has sold by the tens of thousands. He has been heard on the campus in previous years and his
returning is largely due to popular request. Since Dr. Smith has retired from an active pastorate, it is a privilege
to secure him. Dr. Smith, who graduated from Davidson in 1882, is a member of a very distinguished family of
five brothers. One of them is Dr. Henry Louis Smith, former president of Davidson. It is an interesting fact that
all of them are named in “Who’s Who.” Dr. Smith resides in Nashville, Tenn., where he continues to take a
great interest in Church work and world affairs. He has devoted more of his time to writing on missions since
retirement from active service. Lunsford and H. Smith Richardson, nephews of Dr. Smith, made possible the Richardson stadium and Davidson's
fine athletic field.

YMCA Office Hours

As many students have inquired as to the hours when the “Y” secretary will be in his office for conferences,
the following office hours of the “Y” secretary are published. Every morning from 9 until 12, except during the third
period and in the afternoon from 1 until 2.

Magician shown, Colin, the Magician, above, is no other than Shaw Smith, a junior transfer from Oak Ridge Military Institute.
Smith's home is in Mt. Olive, N. C.

Juniors Have Able Magician in Shaw Smith

Not many Davidson students are aware of the fact, but Colin the Magician is living right here on the Davidson
campus! Although you might not think so just to talk to him, Colin is none other than Shaw Smith, a
member of the junior class who transferred from Oak Ridge Military Institute this year. Shaw has been practicing the black
arts of magic for a good many years, having given his first professional performance when only 15 years old. If
his petition to the faculty for the use of his car is granted, he plans to earn a part of
his college expenses by putting on shows in the neighboring towns. Later on Shaw expects to give a sample of
his tricks to the Davidson students here in town. It seems that he has, with a few exceptions, “picked up”
the magician’s trade. “I’ve liked it since I was little,” he said. “There was a professional magician in my home
town, Mt. Olive, N. C., and I learned a good deal from him by helping him in performances around there.
Then, with Lem Kornegay as my first assistant, I started putting on backyard shows when I was about fourteen years
old.”

Classroom Performance

Shaw’s first “break” came when he took the place of a harpist who failed to appear on a classroom program
in school. From that time on, he became known locally as a magician, and appeared professionally for the first time
when fifteen. “At first I wanted to quit school and take magic as my life work, but my mother objected
to the idea,” he laughed. Because of the fact that he has been attending school, Shaw has worked most of
the time in the summer, although he gave several performances in towns near Oak Ridge last year. According to Shaw,
magic is a very expensive business. “Besides talent and liking for the work,” he said, “a great many costly materials
are required. And then it takes a lot of practice, too.” Although people are always asking a magician to tell
the secrets of his tricks, if they knew they (Continued on Page 6)

Uses Name of ‘Colin the Magician’ in Professional Appearances

ALENDA UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., WEDNESDAY, OCT. 20, 1937

Ney Bust is Presented by Allison

Statue of Famous French Marshal to Be Placed In Library

A bust of Marshal Ney, the illustrious general of Napoleon, will be presented to Davidson this afternoon. It will be
placed in the Library, where students will be able to see it. The bust is a carving of wood, made
by Marion Hicks, Charlotte sculptor, and is to be presented to the college by Mr. Charles W. Allison. Mr. Allison
has been interested in the life of Marshal Ney in America and has been instrumental in garnering much of the
information about his life that seems to point toward his having come to North Carolina. The bust of yellow poplar
wood is to be presented to Conrad Frederick Smith, alumni secretary and publicity director for the college. It is of
special interest and value to Davidson because of the fact that Marshal Ney is believed to have been the designer
of the Davidson College Seal.

Napoleon's General

There is a well-authenticated story about Ney that says he was the same person as Peter Stuart Ney, a country
school teacher here in North Carolina. The main basis of this story is Peter Stuart Ney’s claim on his death-bed
that he was Napoleon’s famous general. Added to this fact is Peter Stuart Ney’s appearance in the United States at
a time corresponding to the legendary escape of Marshal Ney from a firing squad in France. It would be reasonable
to say that if he did escape, he would have chosen America as the best place to lose himself in
obscurity. Peter Stuart Ney, a well-educated teacher, set up a classical school in Union, taught in various places in the
Carolinas. He died in 1864 claiming that he was Marshal Ney. It is a definite fact that Peter Stuart Ney
was called on to design the college seal, and that he did so. It was he who selected the words
“Alenda Lux Ubi Orta Libertas” and designed the seal. This is the reason for Davidson's interest in the lives of
these two men whom, we believe, were one and the same person.

James Jetton Killed

James Jetton, 24-year-old son of Mrs. E. P. Jetton of near Davidson, was killed instantly last Friday afternoon about 1
o'clock while repairing a telephone wire leading into his home. While attempting to tighten the telephone wire, Mr. Jetton broke
it and the wire fell on a charged electric wire. The shock knocked Mr. Jetton from his ladder and he
fell into the tangled telephone wire, which was heavily charged. He is survived by his mother and a sister, Miss
Bettie Virginia Jetton of Charlotte, and two brothers, Hughes, of Davidson, and Lewis of Charlotte.

Small, church colleges, by bringing together young men and women of the same cultural level, are indispensable allies of Mr.
Cupid.

Business As Lifework Draws Many Students

One hundred and seventeen students expect to enter some field of business when they finish their course in Davidson College,
according to statistics compiled by the college. This is one of eighteen different vocations proposed by students to be their
future work. One hundred and fifty students still remained undecided as to what their future work will be. Of the
four courses offered by the college, eleven are entered in the A.B. I, ninety-two are taking an A.B. II, two
hundred and forty-eight in the B.S. I, and three hundred and fourteen in the B.S. II. These compare with last
year’s figures which read as follows: fourteen in A.B. I, one hundred and twenty in A.B. II, two hundred and
thirty in B.S. I, and two hundred and ninety-six in B.S. II. The proposed vocations of the students are as
follows: accounting, 17; banking, 13; dentistry, 6; engineering, 23; farming, 7; journalism, 17; law, 47; manufacturing, 10; medicine, 114; ministry,
48; missionaries, 8; music, 5; sciences, 34; teaching, 26; tobacconists, 5; miscellaneous, 30; and undecided, 150.

Currie Talks At Book Club On Carolinas

Dr. Archibald Currie, head of the Political Science Department of Davidson College, spoke before the Woman's Book Club of Greensboro
this afternoon. Dr. Currie was the chief speaker of the afternoon on the program which was presented at the club's
monthly meeting.The gathering met at the Sedgefield Country Club, which is located near Greensboro. The Davidson professor discussed for some
thirty minutes the many aspects of his subject, which was “Topography of North Carolina and its Effect on Political and
Social Life of the State.” He traced the scientific delineation and description of the region which composes North Carolina, showing
the close connection of this field of study with the political and social life of Tar Heelia. Along with his
talk, he described several actual instances where topography had become a poignant element in politics and society.

Several invitations of the type which Dr. Currie fulfilled today are given to Davidson professors from time to time, and
they have the opportunity of speaking before varied audiences on many different topics. This was the first speech given by
Dr. Currie since the beginning of the school year. He will fulfill an engagement in Winston-Salem in November, before the
Davidson Alumni Association. His talk will be on some subject pertaining to Davidson or college life.

Evanston, Ill.—(ACP)—Development of a mechanical “inner ear” to help deaf and deaf-blind persons to learn to speak was announced recently
at Northwestern University.

Editorial Features
“The Reckless Fool,” you will not forget. Letters on “Attitude of the Class of ‘41,” “The Magazine's Boast,” “Student Body
Discourtesy,” etc. Staff Column by Joe Calvin. Another installment of “King for a Day.”

Each Friday evening, receptions are generally only attended by Davidson men. These receptions are a function of the YMCA cabinet,
which comprises the student advisers for this year, and will be held each Friday night.

Greensboro Ladies Hear Talk
Professor discussed North Carolina, and later, Virginia. He traced the scientific delineation and description of the region which composes North
Carolina, showing the close connection of this field of study with the political and social life of the State. He
described several actual instances where topography had become a poignant element in politics and society.

Graduates To Gather at Banquet
Two Speakers Will Give Views Of “Davidson From the Outside”

On Saturday, November 6, at 12:30 P.M., the annual alumni luncheon will be held in the basement of Chambers building.
According to Conrad Frederick Smith, this Homecoming Day will be one of the greatest in a long while. Many graduates
from all parts of this section will appear on the campus that day to attend their annual get-together. Two of
the best speakers in North Carolina will be present in the persons of Dr. Julian Miller and Mr. David Ovens,
both of Charlotte. Dr. Miller and Mr. Ovens, neither of whom attended this school, will speak on “Davidson from the
Outside.” This in itself is somewhat unusual since generally only Davidson men participate in these programs, and these well-known men
should prove interesting. They will present a view from the “outside” and will give their impressions of Davidson as it
is.

Prominent Speakers
Dr. Miller, a graduate of Erskine College who holds an honorary degree of LL.D. from that school, is at present
editor of The Charlotte Observer. He is greatly in demand as a speaker and is perhaps one of the most
intellectual men in the State. Mr. Ovens, general manager of J. B. Ivey and Company, is a successful businessman and
is past president of the National Dry Goods Association. He is quite prominent in the mercantile business and is also
a very outstanding speaker. At the conclusion of “Davidson From the Outside,” Dr. Walter L. Lingle, president of the college,
will address the group on the subject, “Davidson From the Inside.” This will show a comparison of the views of
those who know the school only by reputation and by those who are on the inside and know our present
student body, the men it has produced, and one doubts.

Dr. Smith To Speak On Oriental Situation At Sunday Services
Leads Vespers
Dr. K. J. Foreman, popular professor of the Bible department, pictured above, delivered an inspiring sermon at the last Vesper
Services.

Faith Is Topic of Foreman’s Vesper Talk
Text of Sermon Is Familiar Passage From Book of Daniel

Taking his text from the third chapter of the Book of Daniel, Dr. K. J. Foreman of the Davidson faculty,
spoke at vespers last Sunday evening. His message dealt with the answer to the doubts that assail the believer's faith.
The passage from which Dr. Foreman drew his sermon is the familiar one concerning the refusal of Shadrach, Meshach, and
Abednego to worship the golden image erected by King Nebuchadnezzar. As punishment, the King had them cast into a fiery
furnace, but they were miraculously unharmed, a fourth figure appearing in the flames. “Today,” said Dr. Foreman, “we are exhorted
by churchmen of all sects to believe in God. Yet to each of us comes an occasional doubt. This story
is the answer to those doubts. These career men in Nebuchadnezzar's court chose to be cast into the flames, confident
that God would save them. However, even though their God should abandon them, they would still refuse to bow down
to an idol.

Keep Worship High
We, like these men, said Dr. Foreman, must refuse to worship what is below man, even if we were to
doubt the existence of something above. “Too many people are good for the reward that they feel will be theirs,”
he stated. “As a French philosopher said, ‘If there be no eternity, live so that to be deprived of it
would be an injustice.’” As to the trials that assail the Christian, Dr. Foreman said: “It is only the invalids
that demand perpetual sunshine; the men will live through storms. Paul says the Christian must ‘rejoice in tribulation.’” The fourth
figure seen in the furnace is a prophecy of Christ, who (Continued on Page 3)

Censorship Rules Are Made Public By Staff
The student body, as a whole, knows that the campus publications have their faculty regulations as to what should be
printed, and what should not. However, since very few students are aware of the exact nature of these regulations, the
editorial staff makes these rules known.

Don't Ridicule Faculty
There must be no derogatory or embarrassing reference to members of the faculty or student body in jest, cartoon, or
otherwise.

Don’t Use Profanity
No profanity or obscenity or anything bordering on the profane or obscene will be permitted.

Don’t Expose Vices
Vices that may be at any time prevalent in the student body must not be advertised or paraded before the
public by direct or indirect reference thereto.

Don’t Criticize College
Nothing can enter any publication that the faculty committee in charge does not consider to be for the best interest
of the college. If there is any item criticizing the college, its policies or administration, such items must be submitted
to the chairman of the faculty committee in charge.

Editor Responsible
The Editor-in-Chief and the Business Manager will be held directly responsible for all material published and for the enforcement of
the above regulations.

Fred Smith to Present Loving Cup Next Month
Alumni Secretary to Give Trophy to Best Decorated Fraternity
SPE’s WIN CUP IN 1936
Frats Already Making Plans For This Year

Fred Smith, Alumni Secretary, will give a loving cup this year to the fraternity house which is the most attractively
and originally decorated for Homecoming weekend. This is the second year that a cup has been awarded for decorations as
last year the Pan-Hellenic Council gave a cup. The gayly decorated houses will be judged by a committee probably selected
from the faculty and their wives, but these judges have not yet been decided on. Last year a committee composed
of Prof. Henry T. Lilly, Professor and Mrs. Frank K. Fleagle, Mrs. H. E. Fulcher, and Mrs. Norman Shepard selected
the SPE house, with its Carolina Graveyard, as the winning house.

Decorations Colorful
Last year was the first time that the Davidson fraternities had vied for decoration honors and the idea which has
proved so popular at other schools took hold here also and the decorations resulting from the competition added much to
the color of the Homecoming. Every fraternity worked busily for several days before the annual weekend and much secrecy surrounded
the proceedings. The final products, revealed on Friday night, were indeed colorful and the judges had a difficult task in
selecting the winning one. The fraternities are already making plans for their decorations this year and within the next two
weeks decorations will begin to go up. The winning fraternity will have the cup presented to its president in chapel
shortly after the Homecoming weekend.

College Band Heard on Air
WSOC Features Music on Friday Night Program

During the past week Davidson’s radio fans enjoyed the two regular radio programs over WSOC, Charlotte, on Friday night and
on Sunday morning. On Friday at 7:15 P.M., the Davidson College Band, directed by Mr. James Christian Pfohl, gave a
program of college football songs and alma maters. Mr. Joseph McCleskey announced the programs. On Sunday morning from 9:00 to
9:15 A.M., a religious program was given. Mr. Pfohl opened the program with an organ prelude, followed by a call
to worship which was “The Lord Is In His Holy Temple.” The double quartette, under the direction of Mr. Donald,
then sang “Fairest Lord Jesus.” Wade Boggs, secretary of the Y.M.C.A. at Davidson, read the Scripture, after which the double
quartette sang “Come Thou Almighty King.” The program was closed with a choral amen, and the organ postlude. The attention
of the student body is called to the fact that the programs on Friday night are from 7:15 to 7:45
instead of from 7:45 to 8:00, as previously announced.

For the benefit of young fathers, the University of California has completed a schedule of baby’s crying habits which may
enable parents to arrange their away-from-home programs. After the first month, there is a four-month lull when father may safely
stay at home. After that, there is about a year when baby’s vocal cords get plenty of exercise.
