WEDNESDAY, DEC. 15, 1937. THE RERIDSONIAN

Phi and Eu Clubs Hold Assemblies
Broadway to Lead Philanthropics; Eumenean Takes In New Men

Both of the Literary Societies, Philanthropic and Eumenean, held regular bi-monthly meetings last Tuesday night. The societies are showing renewed vigor and are beginning to reassume the high places they once maintained on the campus.

Eumenean
At the meeting of the Eu Society Tuesday night, the feature was the initiation of several of the applicants for membership who had been accepted. J. W. Holland, T. P. Johnston, S. G. Lowe, and Dave Woodward were taken into the society. George Grantham and Tommy Glenn applied for membership to the society and were accepted. Grantham read his personal criticism of a current movie, and Glenn gave a talk on the subject of “Subsidization of Athletics in Relation to Davidson.” After the reading of these papers, President Dick Vowles called for extemporaneous comments concerning the subject of Glenn's talk. Quite a few members responded, and arguments were advanced pro and con in respect to this subsidization.

Philanthropic
At the Philanthropic Literary Society meeting a set of new officers were elected. Bill Broadway was elected president; Rodman Williams, vice-president; Joe Gammon, secretary; and Bill Manson and Ivan Wetmore, critics. Jack Abernathy was chosen to remain as treasurer of the society. Besides the election of officers in the meeting last week there were also the regular program and feed. Jack Abernathy, John Horton, Russell Kerr, and Dick Lindsay made the talks of the evening. President Broadway stated that throughout the year the members would strive to carry on the long and honorable traditions of the society. He announced that the programs for the rest of the year will consist of every worthwhile topic from ghost stories to grand opera. During the second semester the Phi Society is planning to hold a joint session with the Literary Society of Queens-Chicora College. The program will probably consist of a debate.

Gaw Outlines Chapel Talks
Warren Gaw, “Y” Cabinet member in charge of securing student speakers for chapel, has outlined his program for the coming semester and some of his aims in this work. The “Y” Cabinet furnishes the student speakers for Tuesday, Thursday, and Saturday chapel hours, sometimes substituting a faculty member on special occasions. Another important part of this work is the securing of the speaker for the annual Spring and Fall Services. A total of 87 boys have spoken to the student body in chapel so far this year. The speakers are selected by Gaw about a week in advance, to give them time for preparation, and the list is given to Dr. Lingle. Seniors are selected at first, and then Juniors and Sophomores are asked to conduct the service. Gaw said that present plans are to let the several members of the “Y” Cabinet make talks on the objectives and work of their several departments, in order to acquaint the student body with the work of the “Y” off the campus.

There's satisfaction in doing good work even if you don't get paid for it.

EXPERT WORKMANSHIP

YOU be the EDITOR
During the past weeks, the editors of The Davidsonian have made a sincere attempt to put out an improved newspaper, one that will please every student. Several features have been added, more readable type purchased, and the use of pictures increased. Now, we want your frank criticism and any suggestions that will aid us in putting out a paper more representative of the whole student body. We will attempt to carry out your requests as far as possible.

EDITORIAL—
Local Editorials
With the Staff
Campus in Cartoon
Letters to the Editor
Around Washington
King for a Day, by Chubby King
Take It Easy, by Rut Miller
The Weekly Time Table
Your Film Report Card
1-Minute Safety Talks

NEWS—
News Stories

SPECIAL FEATURES—
Feature Stories (human interest)
Interviews
Question of the Week
Among the Greeks

SPORTS—
Sports Stories

Signed

The Blue Pencil chapter of Sigma Upsilon, national honorary literary fraternity, held its regular meeting Wednesday, December 1, at the Phi Delta Theta Fraternity house. After the reading of the minutes, Fitzhugh Dade read a paper, its subject based on the frankness of the advertisements in women's magazines. The paper was enjoyed by all. Several comments were made by Dr. Cumming on the writer's wide range of vocabulary and use of words. After its delivery, the Committee on Membership made its report. Those who have been bid to join the society are literary enthusiasts Sam Spencer, Rut Miller, Sam Newell, Jack Holland, Bill Marquess, Ed Morrow, Locke White, and Prof. Frontis Johnston. Those who accept the bids to join the society will be initiated after the Christmas holidays. Various matters of business occupied several more minutes of the meeting before the members proceeded with the program. Bill Hiesewetter read a paper stemming from the inspiration he received while visiting the John Dillinger side-show in Charlotte. It was entitled “Not Me” and dealt with the escapades of the notorious bandit. His article was followed by lively discussions, which took an altogether favorable attitude toward the story. The second chapter of the novel, the writing of which has been previously announced, was written by Professor Erwin and read at this meeting.

HIGHEST QUALITY
Buff Shoe Shop
HALF SOLES - - - HEELS
O. C. Buff, Prop.

HENDERSON
(Continued on Page 6)

A. S. BROWN
General Merchandise, Paragon Dress Shirts, Endicott Army Shoes
Telephone No. 7

JEWELRY SHOP
WATCH AND JEWELRY REPAIRING
NOW IN KNOX BUILDING

READ IN THE DAVIDSONIAN:
The Dope Bucket, by Marquess

CRITICISM AND SUGGESTIONS:

Literary Group Extends Bids To Eight New Men

“Y” Secretary
Wade Boggs, Y. M. C. A. secretary, talked to the Sunday School class which met in the Philanthropic Literary Society Hall last Sunday morning. Boggs based his lesson on the fifth chapter and ninth verse of John, which says, “If we receive the witness of men, the witness of God is greater, for this is the witness of God which He hath testified of His Son.” He brought out the fact that the only way to the kingdom of God is through our Saviour, Jesus Christ. He held up as examples several men of wonderful intellect who have tried to approach God through their superior knowledge and intellect and have failed. The knowledge of men has always been subject to error and however great it may become the knowledge and witness of God is always many times greater, he mentioned in his talk. Mr. Babcock of the Davidson Music Department played a special piano selection for the class.

A little experience often upsets a lot of theory.

Books Are Purchased By Library
Volumes Include Group on Photography; Others of General Interest

The Davidson College Library will be put on display in a few days, according to Mr. Chalmers Davidson, director of the library. The volumes purchased include, besides works of more general interest, a group on photography, obtained at the request of the local camera club. New novels which should be on the shelves by tomorrow are: “Academic Procession,” by James Reid Parker; and “The Citadel,” by A. J. Cronin. Non-fiction works, offered for the first time, include “Imperial Hearst,” by Ferdinand Lundberg, author of “400 Million Customers,” a humorous description of the Chinaman and his business, by Carl Crow. Two books of ideas for entertainments are presented in the “Year Round Party Book,” and “Games and Stunts for All Occasions,” both by William P. Young and Horace J. Gardiner. The photographic works are: “Amateur Movies and How to Make Them,” by Alex Strasser; “Wratten Light Filters;” “How to Make Good Pictures,” and “Elementary Photographic.”"Chemistry," published by the Eastman Kodak Company; "Photographic Enlarging," by Franklin J. Jordan, F.R.P.S.; and "Photography," by C.S. Kenneth Mees, director of research and development for the Eastman company.

Society Taps Two New Men
Chemical Fraternity Initiates Schad and Neal

Alpha Alpha chapter of Gamma Sigma Epsilon, national honorary chemistry fraternity, will initiate two men tomorrow night at their regular meeting. The two men to be taken into the chemistry society are Mr. Fred Schad and Neal. Mr. Schad is vice-president of the Bio-Reduction Company and is the inventor of a new process called the aerated-sludge process. This is a biological process of sewage disposal by which the sewage is utilized as fertilizer. Mr. Schad is a native of New York and attended Columbia University. He is a member of Phi Delta Theta social fraternity. Neal is a senior in Davidson and has been selected for membership in the fraternity because he has excelled in chemistry work at Davidson. Neal was to have been initiated into Gamma Sigma Epsilon at the regular initiation several weeks ago, but circumstances came up which prevented his initiation. He is a pre-medical student. Gamma Sigma Epsilon, founded at Davidson, is the only American chemical society which is a member of Le Societe des Amis de la Maison Natale de Pasteur.

YULE EDITION MAGAZINE
(Continued from Page 1)

... the content of the magazine and fill the spaces left by the main stories and features. The next issue of Scripts and Pranks will not come out until March. This will be a "femmes" issue containing many pictures of beautiful girls and other bits of femininity. Also in this issue will be tips on the "Femmes" by the editor Sam Ryburn.

To find a good market for one’s services, one must have some financial independence. The library has acquired a number of new books recently, including "America’s 60 Families" by Ferdinand Lundberg.

Campus in Cartoon

DR. C.H. PETTEE HAS BEEN IN CONTINUOUS SERVICE TO THE UNIVERSITY OF NEW HAMPSHIRE AS DEAN AND PROFESSOR SINCE 1876

Beta Theta Pi—Tom Abbott and Charley Pegram journeyed to Greensboro and spent the weekend. Julian Squires spent the weekend in Charlotte. Charley Edwards and Dan Ison revisited the chapter during the weekend. Also, Mr. and Mrs. Irwin, parents of John Irwin, visited the house. There were a number of visitors present at the feed on Sunday night. Among them were Misses Charlotte and Betty Martin, Jean Dubin, Betsy Vail, Paul Dubin, and Maude Vinson. There were also several faculty members present at the feed. The annual Christmas party was held on Tuesday night. There were presents for all the brothers.

Pi Kappa Alpha—Most of the brothers remained on the campus this weekend preparing for a big Christmas. Chum Horton went to Albemarle for the weekend. Teeny Lafferty went home to Concord. Gordon Cleveland and Dave Russell spent the weekend in Rock Hill. Joe Shelton and Ross McIlwee went to Greensboro. Jim McDonald and Vernon Youngblood traveled to Statesville. The regular bimonthly feed was held last Sunday night with Dr. and Mrs. Shewmake as guests at the chapter.

Kappa Alpha—Last week proved an uneventful one for the chapter, most of the brothers staying close to the campus. Brother Prever, however, made his weekly pilgrimage home to Greensboro, during which Brother Dennis likewise went to Greensboro. Brothers McGarity and Marion spent the weekend at home in Charlotte. Several boys had dates for the Christmas services and the regular Sunday feed that followed. Guests were Misses Helen Jenkins and Louisa Hay. The chapter is looking forward to a Christmas party tonight with food and entertainment lavishly provided by the pledges.

Phi Delta Theta—The Christmas party was held at the fraternity house on Sunday evening after vespers. The freshmen pledges provided the entertainment with a skit from their own pen. The guests at the function were Dr. C.K. Brown, Mr. and Mrs. Fred Schad, Mrs. J.R. Withers, Miss Witty Steel, and Miss Mary Withers. Jimmy Reinhardt went to Raleigh for the weekend to visit at Meredith College. Miller Sproull and Billy Turner journeyed to Rock Hill, S.C. to visit friends.

Kappa Sigma—Pledge Jonas went to Greensboro for the weekend. Brother Pittman also spent the weekend in Greensboro. Mr. and Mrs. Frampton, parents of Harry Frampton, visited the chapter house. Pledge Yates went to Winston-Salem and Brother Glenn went to Greensboro. On Sunday night the usual feed was held. The annual Christmas party will be given on Friday night.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon—The chapter entertained at a dinner party at Hotel Charlotte Saturday night. The following girls were invited: Betty Shall, Caroline Miller, Ann Wiley, Geartrey Ford, Sophie Walker, Alice Wright, Murphy Dow, Emily Holly, Sue Hughes, Dell Sutherland, Ostw. Jones, Delice Young, Ann Littles, Jenny Kline, Nel Abbot, Tiny Waddill, Mary Warthers, and Grace Clark. Alumnus Scott was also a guest. The chapter entertained again Sunday night at an informal feed at the house. Guests included Major and Mrs. Bathurd.

(Continued on Page 6)

Shepherd Page Five

King’s Band Will Travel Across Sea
College Orchestra Will Go To Europe on “Queen Mary” Or “Normandie”

To Europe on the “Queen Mary” or the “Normandie!” That's the thrill that Chubby King and his band are to experience next summer, when the young maestro plans to take his band to the continent for a six-week period. Final details for the European trip have not been formulated, but on his return, Chubby and his band will play a six-week engagement at Hotel Markham in Gulfport, Miss., one of the prime playgrounds in the South. Plans following this engagement have not been settled upon, but the orchestra may return to Mayview Manor in Blowing Rock, where they played most successfully during the last summer. Chubby and the boys have decided not to take any engagements during the Christmas holidays. Some of them have not visited their homes since Spring Holidays last year, since the engagement at Mayview Manor lasted all summer. They reached this conclusion not to play any Christmas engagements since they were unable to book nights straight through. Chubby organized his band during his freshman year, and different members have come and gone. He plays nightly at the College Inn here in Davidson, as he has done for the past two years. He has also played for a large number of school dances in this section of the Carolinas.

Gifts for Your Friends Will Be Greatly Appreciated if Purchased at J.O. Jones

You Will Get a Hearty Welcome When You Come Home by GREYHOUND

Above all, why wouldn’t they! It would cost three times as much to drive your own car. Take a Merry Christmas trip by Greyhound Super-Coach—at a happy saving!

GREYHOUND TERMINAL
Charlotte, N.C.

ROUND TRIP FARES
Atlanta $4.25
Birmingham $6.10
Jacksonville $6.60
Columbia $1.95
Richmond $4.28
Washington $5.15
New York $8.50
Little Rock $12.00
Chicago $15.00