WEDNESDAY, MAY 12, 1937 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Three Bowery Ball Set Played By Dailey and Orchestra Dailey Complimented as Most
Cordial and Obliging Band Leader LAUDS BEAUTIFUL GIRLS Orchestra Engaged Specially For This Week-End Saturday night concluded the “Ball” dance
set and “the beginning of the end” of a glorious week-end. Frank Dailey and his orchestra were packing to leave
for their native state, but not before this reporter could obtain a brief interview. “Bowery Dailey, whose scintillating rhythms were
enjoyed by all,” said he was delighted with the Davidson gentlemen, and enjoyed playing for such orderly and appreciative dancers.
Above all, he was smitten by our feminine guests. He stated: “North Carolina has the most beautiful girls of any
state in which I have been.” He hoped that he would have the honor of playing for a Davidson dance
again whenever the chance was afforded him.

Very Popular
Dailey obtained the reputation of being one of the most cordial and obliging band leaders. He always lent an ear
to every little request. And a proof of his popularity is the fact that there was such a mob attempting
to get his autograph after the dance, this correspondent was pushed further and further away from him. His all-time favorite
number — “Stardust,” is a favorite number among the hits “My Last Affair.” Dailey was not on tour. He came
from Meadowbrook, especially for this dance Saturday night, and returned immediately after.

Started In Bloomfield
Dailey was born in Bloomfield, a graduate of Seton Hall College in his native state. He was originally headed for
the ministry, but his father’s death early loaded him, as the oldest son, with the responsibility of the support of
his widowed mother and a family of five. He then launched in a serious way on his professional music career.
He formed a five-piece orchestra in 1925, played at private parties in and around Bloomfield, and finally secured an engagement
at the Joy Palais in Newark, where he remained for nearly four years. Then the band’s membership was increased, took
the name of Meadowbrook Orchestra, and was booked for a round of theater, hotel, and other engagements, including the old
Pavillion Royale in Cedar Grove, New Jersey. In 1931 Dailey and three of his men bought it and renamed it
the “Meadowbrook.” The band has been broadcasting from this spot over CBS weekly since April, 1934.

Cameras, Kodaks Photo Supplies
1 slightly used Leica D. F 3.5 Lens
1 slightly used Leica F. with F. 2 Lens
W. I. Van Ness & Co.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

CONTRIBUTIONS
Students to Be Given Chance To Donate Toward New Infirmary Fund
FACULTY FAVORS PLAN
Circular Letter Sent to Alumni By Dr. Lingle

Speaking at chapel this morning, Mr. Jackson, Davidson College treasurer, announced that students are invited to contribute to the construction
of a new college infirmary in the near future. According to Mr. Jackson, the faculty feels that the student body
will appreciate the opportunity to have an active part in putting up the much-needed building. It was made clear, moreover,
that all donations would be entirely voluntary. If an average contribution of only thirty dollars per student is made, Jackson
stated, work on the building could be started soon after school closes in June. The subscriptions are to be paid
over a period of three years, payments being made semi-annually, on June first and January first.

Faculty members will share a large part of the expense. The professors were all unanimously in favor of the plan
when it was presented to them. It is expected that the average faculty donation will be two hundred dollars. One
offer of a thousand dollars has been made, as well as one of five hundred and several of three and
two hundred dollars each. Responses to a circular letter on the subject sent out to alumni by Dr. Walter Lingle
have been gratifying, reported Mr. Jackson. “We feel that students will give in that idea of building Davidson's next century,”
says Mr. Jackson, “Every man here is indebted to those who have built our present equipment in the past. Every
fellow should want to contribute something of enduring value.” It was brought out that while every student was not in
a position to make a contribution equal to the desired average, there may be others who will be able to
give rather large sums.

Davidson High School Holds Commencement
WAR MACHINES ARE DEMONSTRATED BY R. O. T. C. OFFICERS
AERIE QUEEN HEAD OF ASSOCIATION
Made President of Spanish On May 25th

Davidson High School will graduate the largest class in its history. At eight o'clock in the High School auditorium, 30
seniors, 19 girls, and 11 boys, will receive their diplomas, emblematic of 11 years of faithful work. The speaker for
the occasion will be Professor Ernest Beaty. The Rev. Mr. Shewmaker will preach the baccalaureate sermon on the Sunday preceding
the graduation. Miss Stella Johnston will deliver the Valedictory address, and Miss Shirley Parker, the Salutatory. The class historian will
be Miss Neena Jackson, the class poet, Miss Leona Knox, and class prophet Miss Eval Mae Knox. Mr. Edward Jackson
will be in charge of the class superlatives. The girls will wear white evening dresses, while the boys will wear
white trousers with blue coats.

Davidson Theatre
Thursday, May 13
WAKE UP AND LIVE—A red comedy with Patsy Kelly, hot music
Fri-Sat. May 14-15
GIRL FROM SCOTLAND YARD—With Karen Morley, Robert Baldwin and Katherine Alexander
Monday, May 17
HER HUSBAND LIES—Gail Patrick and Ricardo Cortez
Tues.-Wed. May 18-19
TOP OF THE TOWN—One of the year’s biggest musical hits. Starring Hugh Herbert, Doris Nolan and George Murphy. Beautiful dance
numbers by Ben Bernie, Ned Sparks, Jack Haley

NICKEL COLLEGE PHARMACY
Where You Get “XTRA SERVICE AT NO XTRA COST”

REVIEW BY DR. CUMMING
Dr. Cumming Writes Review For South Atlantic Bulletin
ARCHAISM IS DISCUSSED
Exclusion of Spenser’s Short Poems Is Noted

The 1937 South Atlantic Bulletin features a review of "Grammar of Spencer's Faerie Queene" by Herbert W. Sugden, written by
Dr. William Paterson Cumming.Charles W. Seifert, immediately behind the gun. Both are expert marksmen, Major Ballard being known as one
of the best rifle and pistol shots. The boys have recently been studying modern weapons for infantry attack, among which
are the machine guns, trench mortars, rifles, and automatic pistols. The two expert instructors shown above are Major J. L.
Ballard, shown kneeling at extreme left, and Major Pharr, Davidson; A. T. Weare, Lumberton; Milton B. Cheek, W. Va.; C.
R. Moore, Charlotte; and Fred Dennis, Concord. (Charlotte Observer).

NEW CLOCK GIVEN BY 1936 CLASS MEMBERS

REMEMBER... You Always Save at Belk Brothers!

If one ventures out of the dormitory at night, there can be seen the work of Mr. Sugden, Assistant Professor
of the Davidson College Spanish Department, and one of the outstanding language professors of North Carolina. He was elected president
of the Spanish section of the Modern Language Association of North Carolina last week. The Association, which draws its membership
from university, college, and high school linguists in all parts of North Carolina, held its annual meeting in Durham and
was attended by many of the local language department. Professor Blythe has formerly served as secretary of the entire language
group. His term as president of the Spanish section will continue until the next annual meeting of the Association, which
will probably be held in either Durham or Raleigh.

GERMAN CLUB HOLDS FINAL MEETING

Four New Men Initiated Into Club at Meeting

Delta Phi Alpha, honorary German fraternity, held its final meeting of the year in the faculty room of Chambers, Monday
night. In the meeting held April 28, at which time Dr. Seri was made an honorary member, Roy Bigham, president
of the fraternity, presided at this meeting. The first business of the evening was the initiation of new members. The
initiates were Gordon Riggan, Walter Sawyer, and Dick Vowles. Bud Ingram, who was to have been taken in, was absent.
Diplomas will be presented by Miss Grace James.

Phi Delta Theta

The spring house-party is to be held on the river this weekend. Lee Ogburn, Tommy Wells, and Roy Scarborough went
to Rock Hill and Tommy Glenn to Spartanburg.

Phi Gamma Delta

Roy Bigham, president of the fraternity, presided at this meeting. The first business of the evening was the initiation of
new members. The initiates were Gordon Riggan, Walter Sawyer, and Dick Vowles. Bud Ingram, who was to have been taken
in, was absent. Diplomas will be presented by Miss Grace James.

I'd Like to Meet Her

"She isn't near to beauty; She's not much for fun, But when the game is over She never asks, 'Who
won?'"

Practical worsteds for all-occasion wear, gabardines for sports and general service... cool tropicals in sports or conservative models. Typical Belk
smartness at money-saving prices.

Men’s Clothing—Street Floor

M. H. GOODRUM & CO.
Zenith & RCA Radios
SOUTHERN 5 & 10c Store
Prompt and Cheerful Service
Belk Bros. Co.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
