WEDNESDAY, OCT. 27, 1937. THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Three

Attractive Miss Hughes
Omicron Delta Kappas Interviewed by Reporter
Photographer’s Assistant Has Become Very Popular With Student Body
By SHAW SMITH

The gentlemen of Davidson are very much aware that the young lady displaying the proofs for the annual pictures is
a perfect picture herself. What they probably do not know is that her home is in Jonesboro, Ark.; that she
graduated from Ark. State College in the same town, with a record to be envied by anyone; that she is
employed now in Raleigh, but — best of all — she is moving to Charlotte early in November!

For the benefit of the few gentlemen who do not know her name, it is “Sue” Hughes, one of the
most attractive girls ever to visit the Davidson campus. She is most correctly described, with “beauty unusual” and “brains”—a combination
indeed unusual. Miss Hughes is a striking brunette, with wide, lovely, clear, and most sparkling brown eyes, beautifully-shaped, pearly-white teeth,
a smooth, dark complexion, and a quick and ready smile. Her well-chosen clothes and her ability to wear them complete
a really attractive picture.

Sets Enviable Record

Her record at Arkansas State College is far too distinctive to give it adequate credit in a few sentences. Some
of her laurels won were membership in Phi Beta Kappa, with an average of 95.6, also election to Phi Gamma
Mu, president of the Art Club, the Dramatic Club, and her local sorority, Delta Beta Chi. Further, she graduated with
distinction and honor achieved only by few in the senior class. Majoring in art and French, she was the only
girl to be accepted in the engineering school of the college. She was a dance instructress, directed plays, sang in
the college trio and the church choir, worked on the college paper for four years, and also on the Jonesboro
Evening Sun. And yet, with her many honors, she is extremely modest, to say the least.

What Sue Likes

According to Sue, she likes, among other things, to watch Davidson play football. She likes to dance, although she can't
“apple,” and she would like to learn. Her favorite personalities are Hal Kemp, Ronald Colman, Katharine Hepburn, and FDR. Traveling,
one of her chief hobbies, she indulged by taking a 15,000-mile trip through the United States last summer. Sue seemed
greatly impressed with Davidson, enough so that she dreads the thought of leaving. “All the students look like gentlemen and
not like freshmen,” she said, smilingly. She likes the atmosphere of study, the courtesy of every man, and how they
think of every little thing, the beautiful old campus, and the way the boys like their school. She, too, likes
the president of the student body: “I think Teeny is one of the nicest boys I have ever met. Just
his manner and everything make you like him immediately.”

Then she graciously gave her qualifications for the “Ideal” man. She asks that he be charming, but not necessarily handsome.
“He must be a great athlete, but he can cheer with me in the stands.” He must be well-dressed, but
not too fashionable, a fairly good dancer, and she would like him to be a horseback rider. A most important
point is that “he must be myriad-minded (see Wilde's ‘De Profundis’).”

When “Sue” leaves, she will be greatly missed at Davidson, but Charlotte, mister! It won't mean a fine Charlotte girl
named Sue Hughes, for whom they are calling. “Sue” Hughes, Charlotte, N. C., will be none of your business! No
number of bummers from Charlotte, either, but early November.

DR. HOOD ADDRESSED CIVITANS ON RELIGION

On last Friday, Dr. Frazier Hood, Professor of Psychology, addressed the Charlotte Civitan Club at its weekly meeting in the
Chamber of Commerce. Dr. Hood's address was on the subject of “The Relation of Religion to Personality.” In his discussion
of this subject, Dr. Hood brought out the basic principles of religion and of personality, and compared the two. His
definition of religion was, "a certain attitude toward God and toward others.” He brought out the point that the definition
is not complete without regard to the attitude toward others.

Smith Starts Journal Class
Publicity Director Begins Work on Practical and Theoretical Journalism

Journalism classes under the direction of Conrad Frederick Smith, alumni secretary and publicity director at Davidson, start tonight at 7:30.
The new course is the first thing of its kind here, and its popularity is evidenced by the fact that
some fifty-five students signified their intention to enroll when announcement of the plan was made in chapel last week. Meetings
are to be held once a week in Chambers, states Mr. Smith. In no way connected with regular courses, these
classes will use no textbooks, and there will be no fee attached. Various phases of theoretical and practical journalism will
be taught. A number of prominent journalists of this section will be secured for lectures, it is planned, though no
announcement of speakers can be made as yet.

Business Club To Hear Talk
Mr. Paul Efird to Address Organization Tonight

The Kommerce Klub will hold its regular meeting Wednesday night in the Philanthropic Society Hall at 8:30. The speaker will
be Mr. Paul H. Efird who operates an extensive chain of department stores in the Carolinas. His talk will describe
the opportunities of a young man starting in the department store business. The club is honored in having such a
distinguished speaker as Mr. Efird. At its last meeting the club had Mr. Kerr, second vice-president of the largest bank
in the Carolinas. Next week the speaker will be Mr. McAllister Carson, a leading insurance expert. “The club tries to
have for its speakers outstanding men in all the fields of commerce,” Mr. Harkey stated. Businessmen of Charlotte and this
vicinity have commented favorably on the success of the club.

Gwynn’s Class Visits School
Ellerbe Methods Are Observed By Students

The nationally famous North Carolina country school located at Ellerbe was visited Wednesday, October 20, by a class of students
from Davidson College under Dr. P. H. Gwynn, Jr., head of the Department of Education. The Ellerbe Consolidated School has
received nation-wide publicity in such outstanding journals and magazines as the New York Times (which devoted a complete page in
the rotogravure section on Oct. 17), the Reader’s Digest, and the Survey Graphic. Because this school is unique in the
whole country, and the Education class, studying methods of High School Teaching, unanimously approved making a visit to it on
their annual field trip. The uniqueness of this school lies in its being the only completely “progressive” school which has
succeeded thoroughly on the state system.

Cost Is Low

While such nationally known schools as the Winnetka School cost $324 per capita to operate, the Ellerbe School makes an
annual expenditure of $27.15 per capita, slightly below the state average for North Carolina. This school, which places a very
strong emphasis on student freedom, is governed entirely by the students. All rules have been decided and enforced by the
students. Teachers must have their desks inspected as well as their classrooms by the children.

Student Government Activities

The duties of the Student Government, under this system, are not primarily disciplinary. The majority of their task consists in
supervising the beautification of the grounds and buildings. Some 100,000 hours of labor are given annually to the school by
the students, for the beautification and upkeep of the grounds.

Above are the seniors who were tapped by Omicron Delta Kappa in chapel this morning. They are: Top row, Charlie
Brown, Yates Faison, Leonard Fort; middle row, Elmore Holt, Bill Kiesewetter, Hector McGeachy; bottom row, Lawrence Reid, Watson Street, Monroe
Wicker.

Alumni Are Featured In South Atlantic Bulletin
Professor Cumming Has Article “Must the Language Club Be A Bore?”

The October issue of the South Atlantic Bulletin, published by the South Atlantic Modern Language Association, contains some items of
interest with regard to members of the Davidson faculty and alumni. Dr. W. Ir. Cumming is a member of a
committee of three which assembled data regarding publications and articles written by members of the Association. One of the articles
listed is by Dr. G. B. Watts, “Must the Language Club Be A Bore?” printed in the Modern Language Journal,
May. In the history of the association from 1932-1937, the work of President E. J. Erwin in preparing a constitution
is mentioned. The third annual meeting, in 1930, was held at Davidson College. One of the papers at the general
session of the next meeting, to be held in Rock Hill, S. C., Nov. 26 and 27, 1937, will be
given by Dr. G. R. Coffman. It is entitled: “How Orthodoxy Proposes to Limit the Discussion of Orthodoxy to the
Textbook.”

Among graduate students whose theses are listed are several Davidson alumni. They are: Frances Ghigo (UNC) “The Provencal Speech of
the Waldensian Colonists in North Carolina;” James Woodrow Hassel (UNC) “The Erudition and Ideals of N. de Cholieres as Expressed
in His Matinees;” William Albert Hurtado y Valhondo;” William Weaver (UNC) “An Introductory Study of Stage Devices in the Siglo
de Oro Dramatic Works of Lope de Vega;” John Archie Thompson (UNC) “Andre Dumas, Pere, and the Romantic Drama up
to 1850.” The latter two are doctoral theses.

All instruction is entirely individualized. Many subjects are learned by doing, as in the print shop, agricultural department, store, bank,
etc. The Student Council—according to one of its members, has had to deal with only two cases of cheating in
the last four years. Interest in the school is high, only two out ofContinued on Page Seven 1937. | ntic
Bulletin Classic Group Names Leader Honorary Fraternity Elects Bill Laws

Bill Laws, of the senior class, was elected president of the national honorary fraternity, which promotes interest in Latin and
Greek, at a meeting of the fraternity on Monday morning. The honorary classical group, which is reviving itself this year
after interest dwindled in its work last year, has at present nine undergraduate members and several members among the faculty.
Reorganization plans, which were made public last week by Dr. C. R. Harding and Watson Street, are now in full
progress. In addition to the election of president at the meeting, the society chose Dall Herring as vice president. The
fraternity has six offices, and the two filled on Monday are the first to be allotted. The other four officers
will be elected from the junior class entirely. Iota Sigma is to issue bids in the very near future to
those members of the junior class who, having completed two years of Greek or Latin with a “B” average, have
also shown especial interest in the classics.

Conyers Divines Rain Through Ear Drums

Conyers, Ga. - If you ever want to get the weather’s next move, just drop in on Old Man Toby,
and he’ll give it to you. Ever since school started, the boys on the second floor of Georgia have been
hailing Toby as a weather prophet. Although the sun may be shining and the sky without a cloud, if he
says rain, they take his word for it. And the funny thing is, when he says so, it does rain.
However convenient for the boys, though, this weather business is somewhat of a headache for Toby. Or rather, should we
say an earache, because that’s the secret of the whole thing. You see, since he spends so much time in
salt water during the summer, the tubes in his ears have become sensitive; and when the weather is about to
change, those tubes telegraph the fact to him in a rather painful way. So whenever you hear him complaining, you
can bet on rain.

Several Trips Will Be Made By President Davidson Professors to Attend Session in Greensboro Next Week

Dr. Walter Lingle, President of Davidson College, is making several business trips this fall. He is attending meetings and preaching
sermons for the most part, and his journeys in a ten-day period are taking him from Atlanta to Greensboro. Last
Sunday, October 24, he preached his annual “Home Missions” sermon at the First Presbyterian Church of Rock Hill, S. C.
Since Dr. Lingle had been pastor of this church for five years, he was “just going back home.” Next Sunday,
October 31, in Greensboro, he will preach a sermon in connection with the dedication of the new Education Building of
the Presbyterian Church of the Covenant. Dr. Lingle will attend the annual meeting of the Southern University Conference on November
1 and 2 in Atlanta, of which Davidson College is one of a limited number of colleges. Most of its
members are universities, and membership is by invitation only. At the First Presbyterian Church of Albany, Ga., on November 4,
Dr. Lingle will address the Presbyterian women of the state of Georgia. At this twenty-eighth annual meeting of the Presbyterian
women, Dr. Lingle will speak on “The Ideals and Objectives of Our Christian Colleges.”

Several members of the Davidson Administration and Faculty are also attending meetings next week. Dr. Hood, Dr. Gwynn, Professor Blythe,
and Mr. Jackson are on committees of the North Carolina College Conference, which meets in Greensboro, November 3 and 4.
It is expected that, besides the committee members, several other Davidson men will attend the meeting. This is an annual
affair, which is being held this year in the O. Henry Hotel and is the seventeenth in a series. The
central theme of the conference is “Good Teaching.”

Here's the man largely responsible for the efficiency of the business staff this year. The work of Charlie Moore with
his competent staff made possible the financing of this and the next eight-page issue, which is the Homecoming edition.

Students to Meet Nov. 12 Delegates to Hold Mock Legislation at Raleigh

Registration of delegates will begin at 12:30 P.M. on Friday, November 12. However, it will be permissible for one to
register during a later hour of the same afternoon or early evening. The program is to continue through Saturday afternoon,
November 13. Vital economic, political, and social problems of the state will be discussed throughout the meeting. Desired legislation will
be introduced in the form of measures, discussed on the floor, and then voted upon by the whole delegation, thus
making “laws of the state.” Each of the approximately fifteen colleges and universities that have already expressed interest in attending
the assembly is expected to come prepared to introduce at least one measure. Davidson has been asked to send five
delegates. There is to be no registration or entrance fee, and the rooming situation is to be in charge of
Harold Zokan, secretary of the Assembly. If more than five should care to attend, they may have the privilege, but
it will be necessary that they obtain their own rooms.

Dr. Egbert W. Smith Uses Japan as Vespers’ Topic Secretary of Foreign Missions Discloses Need of More Missionaries

At the evening service on Sunday, Dr. Egbert W. Smith of Greensboro delivered a sermon on the general subject of
Japan. Dr. Smith is now senior secretary of Foreign Missions for the Southern Presbyterian Church. He has been connected with
the work of the church for twenty-six years and has a great personal and intimate knowledge of the work. He
has visited every mission field in the church. Dr. Smith stated at the beginning of his sermon that he was
not trying to defend Japan for the conquests she has made and is now making in China. He did say,
however, that Japan accuses the white people of taking seven-eighths of the earth's surface. He went on to say that
it was America who opened Japan to the world, and that up until 1924 Japan regarded the United States as
her best friend, but because of the exclusion of the Japanese from our country, there was aroused a great deal
of ill-feeling in Japan. Many interesting facts were given in the talk by Dr. Smith. He stated that Japan was
one of the great newspaper-reading countries of the world. There are twelve hundred newspapers, and some of those put out
as many as eight editions. The great public education system was also mentioned in the talk. Dr. Smith stated that
ninety-nine and seven-eighths percent of the Japanese children who were of school age were in school.

More Missionaries Needed

In closing, Dr. Smith said that the time was just ripe for great missionary work in Japan. The people were
in the process of becoming educated, and the moral side of this education was lacking. He also related Dr. Kagawa’s
plea that America send more missionaries to Japan.

Bulletins Are to be Issued Progress of Davidson is Feature of Pamphlets

“The Birth of Davidson,” first of a series of bulletins issued by the college, will be sent out next week,
according to Mr. Malcolm Lockhart, who is in charge of the work. The bulletin consists of a folder adorned with
a picture of Robert Hall Morrison, first president of Davidson, and also with a picture of the laying of the
cornerstone of the college’s first building. Included too are the words of Dr. Morrison and the early history of the
college. According to Dr. Rene William, the first of the series of bulletins will be followed by others, which will
be issued at intervals. The next bulletin will be entitled “The Growth of Davidson,” and the third, “The Future of
Davidson.”

About the only satisfaction that comes from being broke is that it enables you to deal decisively with investment salesmen.
Only those who get joy out of playing safe often lead to real happiness.

REMEMBER ... You Always Save at Belk Bros.! MEN’S FOOT-FASHION OXFORDS By Friedman-Shelby

Smart in brown elk skin. Also popular in black grain. New Norwegian Wing-tip oxfords in Scotch grain. Come in and
see them. Sizes 6½ to 12. A to D Widths. $4

Street Floor Shoe Dept. BELK BROS. CO. Charlotte, N. C.—“The Friendly City”
