Page Four THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, NOV. 10, 1937.

Three Undefeated In Frat Tourney

Carolina presented one of the smoothest offenses seen in these parts in a long time. Working entirely from a spinner play, the Tar Heels exhibited deception, power, and timing as they crashed off the tackles and swept the ends. Andy Bershak lived up to his reputation and played an All-American game when the ‘Cats were punting. On kick plays, Bill Bolin’s assignment was to stop Mr. Bershak, and Bershak got about as far through Bolin as he would through a stone wall. Once Bill even deposited Bershak flat on his All-American back and went down under the kick so fast that when it hit the ground he was only about five yards away. The punt covering of the whole Davidson line was noticeably better than against Furman, the ends getting down well, assisted by the tackles.

Harriers Drop First Decision of Year to Unbeaten Tar Heels

Wildcat Harriers Toppled From Undefeated Ranks by Strong University of N. C. Cross Country Aggregation

The Wildcat cross country varsity went down to their only defeat of the season Friday afternoon when Carolina’s powerful harriers overwhelmed them 17-46 at Chapel Hill. The result gives Carolina the state title in cross country, placing Davidson second. Hendrix and Captain Andy Jones tied for first with a time of 26:45 on the five-mile course, while Hall of Carolina finished third. Boo Walker was the first Davidson man, taking fourth place. Bruce Caldwell and Dave Woodward placed seventh and tenth for the Wildcats. The other Davidson runners, Telford, Gammon, and Lafferty, tallied between twelfth and fifteenth places.

Heels Undefeated

Carolina is noted for its distance runners, and this fall the university team has gone undefeated against Davidson, State, Navy, Washington and Lee, and Maryland. Most of these teams will meet at Chapel Hill, November 20, for the conference meet, with Carolina acting as hosts and defending champions. The Davidson harriers, their dual meet schedule complete, are pointing towards the Southern Conference competition. They have a period of two weeks in which to rest and tune up for their last race of the 1937 season. Coach Whittle appears confident that the team will continue to show fight and spirit up to the last. “The Carolina meet was the first race run over a five-mile course; all other five schools have been met on courses of from three to three and a half miles in length.”

High Point Kickers Lick Davidson ’Cats

The High Point Panthers handed the Wildcat soccer team a 3-0 defeat in the opening game of the current season for the Davidsonians. High Point, boasting one of the best teams in the south, proved too strong for the Davidson boys. Caravajal, star left center for the invaders, booted a long goal in the first period to open the scoring. He followed this with another counter in the second quarter. Martin, captain of the Pointers, added another in the final stanza after a scoreless third period.

Dynamic Center

Frank Purdy, 145-lb. center of the Wildcat eleven, proved his ability Saturday by playing a bang-up game against a heavy Carolina team. Although little, as compared to opposing centers, Purdy has continually led his team and has been one of the mainstays, especially in backing up the line. An official of the Davidson-State game referred to Frank as “A Ball of Fire in the Davidson Line.”

Phi Delts, Kappa Sigmas, Phi Gams Still Unbeaten

The football program has progressed rapidly during the past week. Six games were played off and one team, the Sig Eps, was eliminated as a result of low grades on their studies. The Sig Eps scored on a pass, with Casali taking a pass from Lindsey for the score. The Pi Kappa Phis made it two in a row by winning the next game from the Betas, 6-0. Lindsey tossed a long pass that King caught for the only score of the game.

Best Game

The game between the Phi Delts and the Kappa Sigs was probably the most interesting of the tournament. Neither team was able to crush the defense of the other and the game resulted in a 2-2 tie. In the next game, the Phi Gams edged out a fighting Pika team, 3-1. Neither team was able to push over a score even though both teams threatened several times. After losing their first game, the Sig Eps made a strong comeback by whipping the K.A’s, 24-0. The longest run of the tournament was made in the game when Sample intercepted a pass and ran it back 60 yards for the score.

Freshman Runners Lose To Tar Heels

The Davidson freshman cross country team met a previously untried Carolina freshman team at Chapel Hill, but came out on the short end of a 17-45 score. The harriers journeyed over to Chapel Hill Thursday with the hope of winning, but the result was a decisive victory for Carolina. James of Carolina took first place in the meet in the surprisingly good time of 13:04.2. This is considerably better than any time done before, and they ran a beautiful race. Nick Schlitz ran a very nice race to take third to the leaders. The rest of the Carolina team was bunched closely together and finished before another Davidson man crossed the line. Wagner, Jones, Davis, Hendrix, and Green followed closely.

An Apology

We apologize to the “B” team for failing to give write-ups of their last two games on this page. One omission was due to a reporter’s mistake and the other to a printer's error. The “All-Americans” meet Lees-McRae here this week and the game will be covered.Fully covered by the intercepted one of Passes Davidsonian. In the last game before this paper went to press, the K.A.’s licked the 1-0. The K.A.’s threatened several times but were not able to cross the goal to score and finally, in the last few moments of the game, scored a first down. 

INVISIBLE RE-WEAVING SERVICE
Burns and Tears Rewoven
501 INDEPENDENCE BLDG.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

’Cats Meet Crimson This Week
Fine Tar Heel Team Trips Davidson Cats In Conference Match
Smooth-Functioning Carolina Eleven Proves Too Powerful For Fighting Wildcats; Watson, Bershak Lead Heel Attack

Shore Wins In Tennis Match
By BOB WOOD

Exhibiting as smooth an attack as has ever been seen on Richardson field, the University of North Carolina Tar Heels defeated Davidson’s fighting Wildcats, 26-0. George Watson and Art Ditt were the two biggest guns in the well-fortified attack of the Heels, leading a deceptive advance that pushed over two scores in the first period and one each in the last two stanzas. The great Andy Bershak was up to his usual tricks, spilling plays before they could get started.

Dick Shore won the Fall Freshman tennis tournament on Friday by defeating Miller Sproull to the tune of 6-1, 3-6, 3-6, 7-5, 9-7. As the score indicates, the match was an extremely long one and was bitterly contested by both players all the way. Several times Sproull had Shore at match point but could not get it, and Shore came back to win. Shore was not seeded in the tournament. He gained the finals by defeating Billy Turner, who was seeded first, and by later winning over Bill Ewart and Jack Spainhour. Sproull was seeded No. two and reached the finals by defeating Dale, Bumbarger, and Foote.

Beautiful Team Play
But it was not the work of any individual or individuals that made the Tar Heels function so perfectly; it was the fine team play and blocking. Beautifully executed reverses and spinners mixed with well-timed passes played havoc with the Wildcat defense. It seemed that the ’Cats were everywhere but where the play finally opened up. The timing on all of the Carolina plays was truly a thing of beauty seldom seen anywhere.

Davidson’s ace back, Teeny Lafferty, got into the fray for a short time in the second period but due to an ankle injury ran with the ball only once. But it was old Twinkle-toes who touched off Davidson's only threat with a pass to Iverson, who in turn lateraled to Captain Williams. Williams was almost away but Little’s low shoe-string tackle, executed with all the deftness shown by the Carolina team all afternoon, brought him down on the Heel fifteen. The half ended a few seconds later.

At the conclusion of the first five minutes, Watson took the ball from Stirnweiss on a reverse and went over for Carolina's first six points. After one exchange of punts in the next series, the Heel air attack began to function, carrying the ball to Davidson's six, where Stirnweiss faked the same reverse to Watson and then circled left for another six points.

The prospects for the freshman tennis team for next spring are good. There are a number of men who have had experience on high school and prep teams. Miller Sproull and Billy Turner played numbers two and one respectively at Darlington School in Rome, Ga. Dick Shore played in the number two position at Winston-Salem High and Bob Eller was also the second man at Central High School in Charlotte.

Davidson’s Wildkittens, fresh from a victory over Presbyterian Junior College, will attempt to make it two straight Thursday in Shelby when they meet the Blue Ridge Prep School from Hendersonville. The Kittens will be considerably weakened because of the ineligibility of five of their first stringers.

Bowling! Billiards
REX RECREATION
20th CENTURY BOWLING
AIR-CONDITIONED YEAR ROUND
FREE TELEPHONE

The crowd Saturday had seen the ’Cats come through victorious in the last six minutes after a thrilling contest. They came in this order: Frank Barker, Bobby Eldridge, Brown, and Edward Wilson. The whole Davidson team ran better than they had ever run before, but they were outclassed by the Carolina team.

The feature of this schedule will be a contest to be played in the Memorial Stadium in Charlotte with the Duke University team. Both teams are endeavoring to have other colleges recognize the sport and establish it in their respective curriculums.

Think This Over!
The following paragraph may be found in the publication of Carolina sports: “The score against Davidson is, in this writer’s mind, probably the most over-rated thing in sports. It isn’t that Davidson has a good team, well-named and well-coached.” Davidson men, is the statement true? Are we losing the spirit on which we have prided ourselves for generations?

Teaching at Cleveland College of Western Reserve University is a family affair to 12 members of the faculty. There are now six “husband and wife” teams teaching at the college.

TODAY'S POPULAR SPORT
BOWLING!
On Saturday Nights—or any other night—take her out to bowl. She'll like that! Take her where she’ll feel at home.

THE HEALTH CENTER BOWLING CENTER
121 South Tryon
112 W. First St.

ARCHER HOSIERY
Walking Chiffons
Belk’s Dept Store
Mooresville, N. C.

FAULKNER & CRYMES
Sporting Goods
415 South Tryon St.
Charlotte, N. C.

The Princeton freshmen placed Chief Justice Charles Evans Hughes ahead of President Roosevelt in their tabulation of the annual poll of the greatest Americans. The initiation rules for first-year men contain this: “Always carry one leg of the great Davidsonian in your pocket and after dinner, chew it like gum.”

QUEEN CITY PRINTING COMPANY
PRINTERS EXTRAORDINARY TO SCHOOLS and COLLEGES
SEND US YOUR PRINTING
Complete Printing Service
Prompt Service Reasonable Prices