Page Four THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 1937

INTER-FRATERNITY BASKETBALL BEGINS

SPORTS AFIELD

VARSITY CAGERS INVADE PALMETTO STATE

By KEN LAWSON

Doc Newton is leaving. Swiftly the news spread around the campus Friday afternoon that the popular mentor who had moulded
outstanding football teams at Davidson for the past five years had resigned to accept the head post of coach at
N. C. State. The contract was excellent, the salary was a considerable increase, and there was the abundance of football
material so lacking at Davidson. It was just too much to resist.

Newton came to Davidson an unknown in coaching circles. In his five years here he has developed formidable gridiron machines
which have brought him recognition all over the eastern United States. It is with deep regret that we see Doc
go. We are convinced that he and his football system are destined to become famous.

With Newton, Gene McEver came to Davidson, following a brilliant career at the University of Tennessee where he was twice
named an All-American halfback. He has done some wonderful work with Wildcat backfields and only the best results can be
expected with him guiding the destinies of future elevens.

Favored the Generals

The sports scribes of the state are picking Washington & Lee to win the Southern Conference basketball tournament, but our
vote goes to Carolina. The Generals have won six games; five were against mediocre opponents while the sixth was an
overtime triumph over the State Red Terrors. The White Phantoms started slowly but have been overwhelming all opposition recently. They
have steadily improved and should be at their peak when the tourney opens at Raleigh. Duke, Wake Forest, or State
may knock the favorites out of the running, however, before they get well under way.

The same trouble of North Carolina having the majority of crack teams seems to exist in all sports. This allows
teams playing almost all their games against weak opponents to end up higher in the ranking than far superior teams
which have played against stronger opposition. If the Southern Conference would adopt the Dickerson system, a point system in which
points are awarded in relation to the strength of the opponent, this fault in ranking could easily be corrected. This
would especially be a boon to Davidson as almost all the Wildcat conference competition is against Big Five opponents.

Two wins last week placed the Wildcats back in the running for the Conference cage tournament. The Red and Black
quintet will have to win three of the five remaining games, however, to cinch a position among the eight teams
at Raleigh. Go get ’em, ’Cats!

Intercollegiate boxing has become so popular at most neighboring schools that it has taken almost all the wrestling enthusiasts. Why
does not Davidson have a team in this sport which ranks close behind football in its power to draw spectators?
A crack mitt team would easily pay its own expenses and greatly enliven our athletic curricula.

Four Initiates Taken Into Dramatic Club

The Red and Black Masquers recently initiated four new members into their group of dramatists. Mokey Faison, Chubby King, Bill
Marquess, and Dick Vowles were taken in because of their work with the organization. The Masquers recently sponsored the production
of Shakespeare’s “The Merchant of Venice,” which was given by the Avon Players. The members of this dramatic organization plan
to present several plays during the early part of March.

415 South Tryon Street - PAUL & CRYMES, INC. SPORTING GOODS CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Lead In Conference Held By W. & L.’s Fast Quint

CAT WRESTLERS DROP MATCH TO TAR HEEL TEAM

Powerful Carolina Team Defeats Davidson Easily at Chapel Hill, Friday

WIN BY SCORE OF 22-6

Barium Grapplers Defeat Davidson Kittens Here

Davidson's Wildcat wrestlers won two time decisions over Carolina's wrestlers last Friday, but were finally defeated by the stronger Tar
Heel team by a score of 22-6. The match was at Chapel Hill. The summary of the matches is as
follows: 118: Harris (C) defeated Blue, time advantage of 7:00; 126: Umstead (C) defeated Lowrance, fall, 3:15; 135: Ward (C)
defeated Carver, time advantage of 9:33; 145: Parker (C) defeated Gholson, time advantage of 6:52; 155: Fort (D) defeated Herring
with a time advantage of 6:52; 165: Williams (C) defeated Ellis, fall, 3:13; 175: Woodson (C) defeated Vass, time advantage
of 8:07; and in the unlimited McFadyen (D) defeated Crystal with a time advantage of 1:40.

Kittens Lose

Davidson's Wildkittens were defeated by Barium Springs by a score of 29-5 here last Tuesday, February second. The summary of
the matches is as follows: 118 lb—McKenzie (B) won on a forfeit; 128 lb—Beshears (B) defeated Wells, fall, 1:30; 135
lb—Bosworth (B) defeated Crabb by a time advantage of 4 minutes; 145 lb—Donaldson (B) defeated Watkins by a time advantage
of 7:13; 155 lb—Bolton (B) defeated Kunz by a time advantage of 6:53; 165 lb—Sigmond (B) won from Fitzgerald in
a fall, time was 6:47; 175 lb—Kinard (B) won from Crane in a fall in 5:41. The Unlimited class was
forfeited to Davidson.

CATS WILL OPEN WITH INDOOR TRACK GAMES

Davidson Sends Many Entrants to Conference Meet

Track season gets an early start at Davidson this spring as the Wildcat tracksters prepare for their first participation in
the indoor track games.Southern Conference indoor games. This eighth annual meet will be held at Chapel Hill, February 27. Representing
Davidson at the meet will be: J. W. Dickson, A. M. Faison, and F. M. Harrison in the 60-yard dash;
W. M. Wicker in the 70-yard high hurdles; H. W. Barrow, A. M. Faison, F. M. Harrison, and W. M.
Wicker will be the Wildcat representatives in the 70-yard low hurdles; J. W. Hickman in the 440; H. Kuykendall, B.
F. Parcell will be the 'Cat runners in the one-mile run; T. E. Walker and F. A. Brown will be
the entrants in the two-mile run; A. D. Warden in the shot put; and J. W. Dickson will be the
broad jump entrant. Bill Black in the high jumps will be the only freshman representative. Davidson entered several events open
to non-conference members in past years; this is the first full participation for the Wildcats, however.

Philip II was born to Mr. and Mrs. Philip Slaughter in Charlotte on Monday morning.

PATRONIZE DAVIDSON’S ONLY 5 and 10
SOUTHERN 5 & 10c Store

COACH GENE McEVER
Newton of the Newton-McEver regime. Gene McEver, shown above, who for the past five years has been first assistant coach
at Davidson under “Doc” Newton, has accepted the offer to become head man in the Wildcat lair, succeeding Newton. McEver
has been coaching the flashy Red and Black backs who have drawn nation-wide comment during the five years. Before coming
to Davidson, McEver was well known all over the sports world as a member of the famous “Hack-Mack” combination at
the University of Tennessee. McEver was twice on the All-American backfield and in his senior year he was called “the
smartest man in football” by Lou Little.

Following up a spirited series of interclass cage games, nine fraternities sent their quints to the hardwood in the first
round of the inter-fraternity basketball tournament for the Centennial year. In the first game played, Thursday afternoon, February 4, the
Pi Kappa Phis edged out a fighting Pika five by 16-15 in the most evenly matched game of the present
series. Neal, a Pika, led the scoring with 7 points, while Covington, a Pi Kappa Phi, was second with six
points.

Frat Basketball Teams Open Season With ‘Bang’
The second game, also played on Thursday, was won by the Phi Gams over a strong S. P. E. quintet
after the former recovered from a 9-0 lead in the first quarter and fought to the top in the third
quarter to win the game by 18-15. The winners put up a stiff defensive in the second and third quarters
only allowing their opponents to chalk up one point in the third. In those two quarters the victors rolled up
14 points to gain and keep a slim lead.

(Continued on Page 6)

—VISIT—
White Drug Company
For Prompt and Efficient Service
Magazines - Fountain Pens - Toilet Articles
“Davidson’s Oldest and Best”

SCARE WINTER AWAY WITH HANES!
P. H. Hanes & Company

DEFEAT CENTRAL FOR INITIAL VICTORY
Kittens Fight Out Win Over Charlotte High in Extra Period
SIMS, HARRISON STAR
Frosh Show Best Form of Season in Thriller

The Davidson Wildkittens scored their first victory of the year over the Charlotte Central High Wildcats in the Alumni gym
here last Thursday night by an extra period decision 23 to 22. The Frosh showed their best form so far
this season working smoothly on the offense and clamping down at times with an air-tight defense. Play was dominated by
little Jack Sims of Central and Bennett Harrison-Jim Thomas combination of the ’Kittens. Charlotte pushed ahead and led by a
lone field goal at the half; Sims added another foul making the score 18 to 15 during the third period.
Things looked bad for Davidson as the score went on to 21-18 with but two minutes to play. Thomas sank
a long side shot and Ray Tenney followed it with a free throw which tied the count as the horn
sounded. In the extra period Tenney found himself in the clear and converted the opportunity into two points; Central later
had a chance to knot the score but fell short when Shumate missed the second of two free throws. Final:
23-22.

Imps and Tar Babies Win
On the previous Monday and Tuesday the 'Kittens lost successively to the Duke Blue Imps and the Carolina Tar Babies
in preliminary games to the varsity engagements of the ’Cats in Durham and Chapel Hill by counts of 53-15 and
53-17. Both varsity and Frosh leave Friday for Raleigh where they meet the State quints. Saturday the ’Cats and ’Kittens
move to Wake Forest to tangle with the Deacs.

For Better Going in Classes or Exams
The Parker Vacumatic Won’t Run Dry
For It Lets You SEE Days Ahead If It Needs Refilling and Holds 102% More Ink Than Old-Style Pens

Millions of moderns are now replacing their old “blind barrel” pens with this revolutionary Parker Vacumatic because this sacless marvel
ends writing “the hard way.” When held to the light, it lets you see the ENTIRE ink supply, hence won’t
run dry at some crucial moment. And because it has fewer parts—it holds 102% More Ink. Its Scratch-Proof Point of
Platinum and Gold eliminates “pen drag.” Its lustrous laminated Pearl and Jet design is a wholly new and exclusive style.
This Pen is carried by more college students than any other two makes COMBINED. It won the recent Pen Beauty
Contest by a vote of 2 to 1—was awarded by the All-America Board of Football to the 90 outstanding players
of 1936. Try the Parker Vacumatic at any good store selling pens. Identify the genuine by this smart ARROW Clip—this
holds this Pen low and safe in the pocket. The Parker Pen Co., Janesville, Wis.

To Make Your Pen a Self-Cleaner—write with Parker Quink, the new quick-drying ink that dissolves deposits left by pen-clogging inks.
15c, 25c and up.

Cats Fight For Place In Conference Tournament
Two Straight Victories Bring Davidson to Eighth Berth In Conference
WHIP FURMAN, CITADEL
Hicks and Iverson Are High-Scorers in Two Games

Snapping back into form with decisive wins over two formidable quintets last week, the Wildcat cagers have climbed up to
eighth place in the Southern Conference standings and are making a strong bid for a berth in the tournament at
Raleigh next month.

In the first game of the new semester the Lairdmen routed Furman’s Purple Hurricane, 45-31, with a fast-breaking attack in
the local gymnasium. Furman got off to a quick start, but the Cats erased their lead before the first quarter
was over. J. D. Hicks rang up the field goal that gave them a 12-11 advantage. During the rest of
the half John Armstrong, Maurice Peabody, and Ken Knorr scored 10 points while the Hurricane was held to a lone
field goal by Raymond Culcleasure.

A sudden Furman spurt in the second half cut the Davidson lead to six points, but from here on the
Wildcats turned on the pressure and were never in danger of being headed. Hicks starred for Davidson and was high
scorer of the game with 16 points to his credit, followed by Peabody with 10. Culcleasure tallied 12 to lead
the visitors.

The Cats took to the road Saturday and defeated the Citadel five in Charleston by a score of 46-36. The
Bulldogs took a 14-6 lead early in the first quarter led by Walker and Eddy. The Wildcats gradually whittled this
down, but at the end of the half were still trailing by three points, the score being 22-19. After the
intermission, Ned Iverson and John Armstrong “found the basket” and went on a scoring spree that gave the Davidson boys
a lead which they never lost. Iverson was high scorer of the game with 16 points, followed by Armstrong with
12. Walker and Eddy led the Bulldog scorers with 10 and 9 points respectively.

Davidson now has three victories and five defeats in the conference behind South Carolina and Wake Forest. Pushing the Cats
for eighth place honors is V. M. I. with two wins and five losses.
