Page Four THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 13, 1937

FOUR MEN ADVANCED
(Continued from Page 1)

Johnny met boys representing various colleges and universities in the following states: Michigan, Wisconsin, Illinois, Indiana, Ohio, and Kentucky. In
interviewing the scholarship seekers, it was learned that the state committees which examined them were made up of five men,
a president and four committee men. Each of the members was free to ask any question during the examination. The
questions asked were largely taken from statements made by the applicants on their application blanks which were sent in some
time before the state meeting. At times, the questions were asked so as to confuse the students to test their
self-control. The examiners sought to make the whole examination one of a general discussion nature. The state committees carried on
the examination all morning and after a private discussion among themselves until mid-afternoon, announced the winners at four o'clock. The
system of examining committees was an interlocking one. The state committee was composed of prominent educators in each state. The
district committee was composed of various members in that district. One of the best features of the trip, the students
admitted, was the extra ten days they received on their Christmas holidays.

SMITH MAKES VISITS
(Continued from Page 1)

trying to get more publicity for the college and to gain the full support of the alumni. He hopes that
through these trips more of the old graduates will become interested in their college again and will help Davidson through
it.

PROPOSED AMENDMENT
(Continued from Page 1)

mittee of the Y. M. C. A. Cabinet, shall submit a list of nominations for the position. After this list
is submitted, the floor shall be open for further nominations from the rising senior class.

“3. In case of absence or incapacity of the Freshman Adviser, the president of the senior class shall serve in
his position until that vacancy is filled. In case of permanent vacancy, it shall be his duty to cause the
senior class to elect a successor as soon as is practical.”

Voting Close

The student council, Omicron Delta Kappa, and the court of control had previously given their unanimous support to the proposal.
It was first discussed in the meeting of the student body, December 18. Further discussion was postponed until Thursday, January
7, and voting until January 8. A two-thirds majority of the student body is necessary to pass an amendment, so
that 266 votes were needed, instead of the 208 the proposal received, for passage.

FAST AND THRILLING
(Continued from Page 3)

His play in all departments of the game was brilliant. Ken Knorr and Bill Hancock also scored heavily for the
Wildcats. The Blue Devil attack was centered around Edwards and Podger who made 9 and 10 points respectively.

COUPLE UNITED
(Continued from Page 1)

After the ceremony, the couple left on a bridal trip to Florida and other Southern points. They now have an
apartment at the home of Mrs. J. M. McConnell in Davidson.

SHAVING CREAM TOOTH PASTE
All Standard Brands
SOUTHERN 5 & 10c Store

CARS FOR RENT
M. P. Henderson
GULF GAS & OIL

“DREAM GIRL”

DREAM GIRLS—In a nation-wide poll of undergraduate members of Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity, Marsha Hunt, brunette Paramount starlet of "College
Holiday,” won the title of “The Dream Girl of Pi K A," over Harriette Haddon, blonde chorus girl in the
picture, by just one vote. A total of ten girls were in the contest. The close race run by Miss
Haddon has already set her definitely for several future pictures.

Davidson Theatre

Wed. Jan. 13—
CHARLIE CHAN AT THE
Starring Warner Oland vs. Boris (Frankenstein) Karloff

Thurs.-Fri. Jan. 14-15—
ONE IN A MILLION
Sonja Henie thrills you with her first picture

Sat. Jan. 16—
MIND YOUR OWN BUSINESS
Charles Ruggles, that Hen-Pecked Husband, with Alice Brady

Mon.-Tues. Jan. 18-19—
COLLEGE HOLIDAY
With Martha Raye, Ben Bernie, Eleanor Whitney, Marsha Hunt

OPERA with STAGE and SCREEN SHOW - FRI.-SAT.
ON THE STAGE
Jimmie Hodges’ “LOW ON LAFF”
21—PEOPLE—21
8—LOVELY GIRLS—8
presenting a stage revue that is different from anything seen in Charlotte this season!

ON THE SCREEN
“ALONG CAME LOVE”
—with—
IRENE HERVEY-H. B. WARNER CHARLES STARRETT

IMPERIAL THEATRE
MON.-TUES.-WED.
Barry Benfield’s “VALIANT IS THE WORD FOR CARRIE”
—starring—
GLADYSGEORGE BROADWAY NOW THROUGH SAT. James Melton Patricia Ellis Zasu Pitts Hugh Herbert Ann Sheridan Nat Pendleton Allen Jenkins Walter
Catlett —all in— “SING ME A LOVE SONG” Mon.-Tues. Wed. Jan. 18-19-20 “WE WHO ARE ABOUT TO DIE” —with— Preston
Foster - Ann Dvorak - John Beal

The Sorosis Club met on last Tuesday evening at the home of Mrs. T. E. Lothery.

Track Team Schedules Nine Meets For Spring

DAVIDSON PROFESSORS (Continued from Page 1) the sections of the country; such as the South Atlantic Modern Language Association, which
met on December 31, and was attended by the Davidson professors. The entire association of about twelve hundred professors from
the best colleges and universities in the country had its meetings in the John Marshall Hotel and the Y. W.
Auditorium. On December 30 the entire association went to the historic town of Williamsburg on a special train. There they
saw the historic buildings that have been restored by John D. Rockefeller, Jr. They were the guests of William and
Mary College for lunch. They held their meetings in Phi Beta Kappa Hall there at the college—where Phi Beta Kappa
was founded. The association was the guest of the University of Richmond on the last day in December. The meetings
were held there and lunch was served to the delegates. Upon his return, Professor Blythe was joined by Professor F.
K. Fleagle and the two went to a two-day meeting of the Spanish faculty at Chapel Hill.

GEORGIA DOWNS (Continued from Page 3) matched. Watts seemed to have the edge in the first half, but the tide
turned, and the Tea Hounds were playing desperate ball deep in their own territory when the decisive break came. Carl
Carlson, among others, starred in Georgia’s defense, and Addison Long and “Tricky Dave” Sellars did good work on the Watts
offensive. The game passed off without the traditional water battle between the two dormitories. In return for a pledge by
the inmates of the two buildings to refrain from the feud, the players were equipped completely, except for shoes, by
the athletic association.

FELLOWSHIPS OFFERED (Continued from Page 1) tions must be made to Fellowship Secretary, Social Science Research Council, 230 Park Avenue,
New York City.

TRIPS ARE PLANNED (Continued from Page 1) debates over stations WBT and WSOC in Charlotte. The question to be discussed
in the majority of these contests is “Resolved: That Congress should be empowered to regulate minimum wages and maximum hours
for industry.” Classes for the debaters, under the direction of Dr. C. K. Brown, will begin early in February.

COUNCIL FAILS (Continued from Page 1) of the evening Friday night, but pleasant informality will be proper for the Tea
Dance Saturday afternoon and the final dance that night. As is the custom, these three dances will comprise the set
for which an inclusive ticket may be secured or for those desiring to attend only particular ones of the dances
single tickets will be sold.

Coach Norman Sheppard announced Friday that nine meets had been scheduled so far for this track season. The schedule has
not been completed yet, and the dates of three of the meets are still indefinite. The track schedule is as
follows: Charlotte Indoor Meet at Charlotte, date indefinite; Carolina Indoor Meet at Chapel Hill, February 27; Citadel at Charleston, S.
C., March 23; South Carolina at Columbia, S. C., date indefinite; Furman at Davidson, date indefinite; V. P. I at
Davidson, April 17; Maryville College at Maryville, Tenn., April 24; Duke at Durham, May 1; Southern Conference Meet at Durham
or Chapel Hill, May 8.

117 Garland Court Davidson, N. C.

Our Slogan “Every Job a Good One”

Standard Printing Company Charlotte, N. C. Opposite Johnston Bldg.

THACKER’S, Inc. “A GOOD PLACE TO EAT” 221 South Tryon Street Private Dining Rooms For Reservations: Phone 5490 Charlotte, N.
C.

Aromatic tobaccos from the districts of Xanthi, Cavalla, Smyrna and Samsoun in Turkey and Greece, the tobaccos of richest aroma...
blended with tobacco from southern Maryland and rolled in Champagne Cigarette paper of the finest quality. This paper, specially made
for Chesterfield cigarettes, is pure and burns without taste or odor.

For the good things smoking can give you... Enjoy Chesterfields
