WEDNESDAY, OCT. 20, 1937 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Three

Question of the Week

You've all heard, no doubt, that Duke University and the University of North Carolina have banned the famous “Big Apple” and the so-called “Little Apple” from their dances this year. The question “Should the Big and Little Apple be prohibited from the homecoming dances?” sent forth a number of varied answers from a cross-section of the campus dance authorities. Some think Duke and Carolina are all wet, so to speak, while others agree with the authorities at those schools. Anyway, here’s what the ones interviewed thought about it:

John Horton, Albemarle:
“I don’t think it should be banned. There is not much harm in it, and it affords a great deal of amusement for those who dance it, and for the spectators too. Maybe some of the rest of us can learn to do it with ’em.”

Elmore Holt, Greensboro:
(Speaking of the fact that Duke has banned it) “I think it’s perfect! It’s obnoxious and interrupts other people’s dancing. After all, there’s really nothing to it. It may be all right for smaller dances, but I don’t think it belongs at our dances here.”

Bronston Kenney, Frankfort, Ky.:
“On what grounds could they ban it? The Big Apple might possibly be inconvenient, but the Little Apple is hardly more spectacular than the shag or some of the other steps. I don’t see why they should prohibit the Little Apple, especially since a lot of people like to watch it.”

Joe Craver, Salisbury:
“The Big Apple should be kept out of the Davidson dances because it disrupts order. The Little Apple is all right as long as it doesn’t interfere with anybody else.”

George Stowe, Belmont:
(Short, snappy, and to the point) “I’m for having them both, principally the Little Apple.”

Pete Marchant, Greenville, S. C.:
“The Big Apple was originated in dance halls, and such places, but it should be kept out of the Davidson dances.”

Raymond Pittman, Fayetteville:
“The Little Apple is worse than the Big Apple — it certainly has no place at any college dances. It takes up too much room, and excludes too many people who don’t know how to do it.”

John Latimer, Washington, D. C.:
“The Big Apple is appropriate and can be enjoyed at beaches and other summer resorts, but I am definitely against any such dancing at Davidson. It just isn’t in keeping with the manner of dancing here.”

Revive Eta Sigma Phi Classical Society to Begin Its Work Within the Next Few Weeks

Under the guidance of Dr. C. R. Harding and Watson Street, plans for the reorganization of Eta Sigma Phi, honorary fraternity recognizing interest in Latin and Greek, are progressing, and its sponsors hope to have it functioning within a few weeks. Interest in the fraternity lagged last year, and no effort was made to bid new members. Nine men of the senior class were members last year, and will form the nucleus of this year’s organization. They are Cooper Adams, Clyde Dailey, Jim Dorsett, Henry Harkey, Dallas Herring, Russell Kerr, Bill Laws, Watson Street, and Andy Wilkerson. Professors Bailey, Beaty, Harding, and Vowles are the faculty members of the fraternity. The organization bids those men who have made good averages in at least two years of either Latin or Greek, and new men from the junior class will be bid within the next few weeks. The purpose of Eta Sigma Phi is to promote interest in the classics, and its program consists of an occasional social, with papers on classical subjects being read at its meetings.

Chemistry Class On Charlotte Field Trip

Seven members of the Industrial Chemistry class went on a field trip last Friday afternoon to the Carolina Sign Company in Charlotte. They were accompanied by Logan and Thies. The class was shown throughout the large factory where neon signs are made, and the actual process of blowing the glass tubes and filling them with electrodes was demonstrated. The company blows and shapes its own glass, then puts on the electrodes. After that, all the air is pumped from the tubes and they are refilled with different gases which produce the desired colors. The tubes are then attached to the tin, which is cut and sprayed right in the factory, and the completed sign is ready to be shipped to its owner.

Will Present Band Concert

The Davidson College Symphony Band will present its first home concert of the year in Chambers auditorium on either November 4 or 5. Professor James Christian Pfohl has not definitely decided which night the band will offer its program. The featured guest artist of the evening is to be Bernard Hirsch, saxophone soloist who is at present director of the Marion high school band. The concert will be given for the financial purpose of enhancing the status of the football band for its Harvard trip. Plans are being made to have Davidson musicians strut their stuff before the stands in Cambridge when the Wildcats battle the Crimson Yanks on November 13. Professor Pfohl says that the band will present a varied and entertaining program at the concert and he hopes that a large number will attend.

N. C. Has Most Davidson Men

North Carolina Has 380 Boys Here; South Carolina Follows With 50

Davidson undergraduates form a cosmopolitan group this year, according to the figures from Hengeveld’s office. Twenty-four states and ten foreign countries are represented in the student body, a recent survey reveals. North Carolina’s traditional leadership remains unrivaled as three hundred and eighty Tar Heels, slightly over half the student body, are enrolled this year. South Carolina runs second again this year with an even fifty men to her credit. Last year there was a three-way tie for third place between Tennessee, Georgia, and Virginia, each with thirty-one students, but this year Tennessee is ahead with a total of thirty-two. Georgia has twenty-seven representatives, and Virginia lists twenty-nine undergraduates. Other states with a number of students from each are: Alabama 14, Florida 14, Mississippi 12, West Virginia 4, Arkansas 4, Colorado 4, Illinois 1, Kentucky 14, Louisiana 3, Maryland 3, Massachusetts 3, Missouri 3, New York 5, Ohio 5, Pennsylvania 2, Texas 5, and New Jersey 2. There are also three from the District of Columbia. From foreign lands are: Africa 2, Brazil 3, Cuba 2, Korea 5, China 3, Japan 1, Jamaica 1, Philippine Islands 1, Mexico 1, and Puerto Rico 1.

Frats Make Purchases By Co-Op System

Co-operative purchases of supplies by fraternities and sororities at Ohio State University saved them 16 per cent on $90,000 worth of provisions during the last year. This year 33 fraternities and sororities have joined forces, uniting their purchasing power. Now only five fraternities and 12 sororities are not included in the group, the majority of these being relatively small. Interest in improving the financial conditions of the various fraternities has led to the establishment of a uniform accounting system in the office of the auditor of fraternity accounts. Forty-six of the 58 fraternities now have “A” credit ratings, with the others rapidly reducing their financial obligations.

Hold That Pose!

A candid cameraman sneaked up and took this interesting picture of the annual photographer in action. At the left is Billy Masters, just one of the six hundred victims.

DAVIDSON THEATRE

WED. OCT. 20 “Souls At Sea” WED. OCT. 27 “Double Wedding” THURS.-FRI. OCT. 21-22 “Saturday’s Heroes” SAT. OCT. 23 MON.-TUES. OCT. 25-26 “This Way, Please”

SERVICE WITH INDIVIDUAL ATTENTION

NORTON’S Barber Shop Norton & Cidroam ProprietorsDunbar, of Dunbar and Daniels, in Raleigh, is the photographer, seen here setting Masters’ head at just the right angle. He spent all of the past week on the campus, holding sway in the parlor of Watts dormitory, and was successful in getting pictures of the majority of the students.

Work On New Infirmary

Phi Literary Society to Revise Old Constitution

Regular Series of Programs Will Start at Next Meeting

Inspects Local October 26 Military Unit

The Philanthropic Literary Society’s antiquated constitution, drawn up in 1837 and subjected to countless amendments over time, will be thoroughly revised this year. Colonel H.R. Richmond, chief of the Reserved Officers Training Corp, made a brief visit to the Davidson ROTC unit last week. Col. Richmond, who has been inspecting the various divisions of the ROTC over North Carolina, South Carolina, and Tennessee, remained here for one day attending to certain routine duties. He inspected the progress of the senior classes and also checked the records and properties of the local post. During the day he visited President Lingle and discussed several matters with him.

Musicians to Give Program

Prof. Thane McDonald Attends N.C. Music Education Conference

Lime Is Nearing Completion

Complete Brickwork, Slate Roof; Plastering and Plumbing Remains

The work on the new infirmary is continuing with amazing rapidity. The auditing division was established on its present basis four years ago. It was decided that six fraternities owed creditors approximately $65,000. This has now been reduced to $15,000. An engineer, who could have been a doctor, has enrolled at Tulane U.

Societies Have New Schedule

Announce Revised Schedule

Members of Davidson's musical organizations have entertained and attended many meetings during the past week. Prof. McDonald and the double quartette rendered several selections for the Men's Club of the First Presbyterian Church last Sunday. However, there is to be no rush for its completion. A slower pace of construction means a better-built infirmary. The heavy construction work has already been finished. All the bricks have been laid, and the slate roof has been completed. All the plumbing and lighting fixtures that can be placed before the plastering has been set have already been put in place. The rough coat of plastering is being applied at present. Another coat has been installed in order to dry this coat out so that the white coat may be applied as soon as possible. All the interior painting will begin a little later on when the finishing touches will be in progress. The exact date of occupation is not set; however, it is expected that it will be finished by the last of November or the first of December rather than the previously stated time. As previously stated, the administration prefers a slower job than a fast job that is not well done.

New Magazine Plans To Use Rejections

For those aspiring young writers who have been collecting rejection slips from magazines all their life, this announcement will prove very popular. “Talent” is the name of a new magazine that collects the best previously rejected works of America’s literary and artistic unknowns and publishes them in magazine form quarterly. Its editorial board is composed of prominent artists and writers.

Lee Paper Box Firm To Build Plant Here

The Lee Paper Box Company of Philadelphia, Pa. has announced plans to set up a branch plant here in Davidson early in January 1938. Eastern officials will have to go into training if they expect to work any eastern college games this fall. They must produce a physician’s certificate attesting to their weight, hearing, and general health.

EXPERT WORKMANSHIP HIGHEST QUALITY

BUFF SHOE SHOP

Pop Warner won his 300th victory in 43 years of gridiron coaching when his Temple U. team beat Virginia Military Institute, 18 to 7. All freshmen must ask permission of a member of the Student Court for every date. This new ruling elicited groans of despair from freshmen at Midland College, Fremont, Nebraska. Two students at N.Y.U. stayed aloft in their weather observing balloon for four hours.

Johnson’s Barber Shop

Furniture of QUALITY at a 40% Reduction. We Operate in this Manner, Being on a CASH BASIS. We Sell NATIONALLY Advertised Furniture: Kroehler - Alexander Smith Rugs - Mohawk and Firth Rugs - Simmons Bedding - Mersman Tables - Perfection Stoves - Tomlinson Furniture - New and Used Pianos. We Sell For Cash and 40% Less.

PHONE 168

Sloop Furniture Co. MOORESVILLE, N.C.

New English Tab Shirts — $1.65

Real British Stripes All Woven Fabric

Shirt Shops On the Square Nation Tryon and Trade Sts. CHARLOTTE, N.C.