Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, DEC. 1, 1937 The Davidsonian | Founded By the Class of 1915 1937 Member 1938
Associated Collegiate Press Distributor of Collegiate Digest Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson” Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY Charlotte,
North Carolina SUBSCRIPTION RATES Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY National Advertising Service,
Inc. College Publishers Representative 420 MADISON AVE. NEW YORK, N.Y. CHICAGO - BOSTON - LOS ANGELES - SAN FRANCISCO Entered
as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879. DICK VOWLES
Editor-in-Chief CHARLES MOORE Business Manager Fitzhugh Dade Assistant Editor Ovid Bell Managing Editor Joe Calvin Managing Editor Wesley Coghill Managing
Editor Terrell Porter Managing Editor Perry Sloan Managing Editor Bill Marquess Sports Editor Owen Vanke Associate Editor Sam Cothran Associate
Editor Euclid Fant Associate Editor Hector McGeachy Associate Editor Yates F. Associate Editor Sam Rybu Art Editor Henry Baker Movie
Editor Andy Turner Collection Manager Advertising Manager Bill Miller Advertising Manager Wesley Coghill Circulation Manager Terrell Porter Circulation Manager Sam
Hemphill Business Manager THIS WEEK Wesley Coghill Assignments Ovid Bell Page One Joe Calvin Page Three Terrell Porter Page Five
Perry Sloan Page Six It is not enough to be an upright man, we must be seen to be one:
society does not exist on moral ideas only.—Balzac. Red Cross... In chapel last week an inconspicuous notice concerning the current
Red Cross drive was read. A cause such as the Red Cross deserves more than an inconspicuous notice. In the
past, Davidson students have not joined the Red Cross in as large numbers as might be the case. Probably this
has been due to the Christmas Seal fund and the local “Y” fund both being raised at the same time
of the year. As Prof. Beaty, head of the Davidson branch of the campaign stated, “It seems as if more
boys would be willing to give up four shows.” And that is all of “material” nature that is required for
membership. Quoting from the American Red Cross pamphlet: “Flood waters of greater magnitude than ever recorded previously brought suffering to
two million people in the Ohio and Mississippi valleys in 1937. The American Red Cross, meeting the greatest disaster relief
needs in its history, rescued, fed, sheltered, clothed and gave medical aid to victims in cities, towns, villages and farms
in 320 counties in twelve states. Five hundred lives were lost and the Red Cross hospitalized 6,700 sick and injured.
Houses were rebuilt, repaired, refurnished, livestock replaced and means of livelihood restored for more than a quarter million families.” There
is a concrete example of the Red Cross work during the past year. The Red Cross always stands by waiting
for an opportunity to aid in any phase of life. At some time it touches the life of every one
of America’s one hundred twenty million citizens. Gullible’s Travels... “There's one born every minute,” said Barnum and the well-known circus
magnate knew what he was talking about. In his lecture Monday night, Dr. Howard Higgins, Dean of Emerson, interestingly and
fascinatingly furnished further evidence of the truth in the mighty Barnum's statement. Dr. Higgins' material was not altogether new to
the average person. Spirit mediums have created some stir at various times. However, his presentation of the fake methods of
mediums and the revelation of the tricks of their trade offered a new approach to the subject and a biting
but deserving attack upon the “spirit medium racket.” We feel, however, that such a man as Dr. Rhine, of Duke
University, who is carrying out experiments in extra-sensory perception (ESP), is honest in his work. Dr. Higgins also expressed his
belief that Dr. Rhine's work is thoroughly conscientious, although he admitted he disagreed with some of his work and felt
that other methods would be more revealing. There has been so much evidence presented that we cannot help but feel
that there is something to this “mental telepathy” business. Paragraphics... Hats Off! We salute that diminutive, rosy-cheeked fellow, Charlie McCarthy—the
nation’s hero, as Sinclair Lewis proclaimed him in a recent speech. All America worships the little sliver who comes from
a famous old line of South American nut trees. Succeeding Walt Disney's Mickey Mouse, Eddy Bergen’s little upstart, Charlie, proves
one thing—the American people, surrounded by adverse business conditions, impending war on many sides, with a Government and a President
under severe test, have not sunk into short-sighted, distorted views of life. America still has a sense of humor. And
America will always have a sense of humor. Whatever task is undertaken, there is bound to be criticism, and a
lack of criticism would indicate an utter lack of interest and progress. That is why the Broadway comedy success “I'd
Rather Be Right,” strikes such an appealing note to men and women today. Satire ranks along with the best of
criticism when free of biting, stinging qualities. Those who have complained about the Broadway play must lack any sense of
humor or be such radical New Dealers, they blindly defend any project of theirs, no matter how foolish or futile.
We were interested in Life magazine's interesting classification of West Virginia’s Senator Rush Holt, the “baby” of the Senate family.
Life goes about classifying the Senators as Anti-Roosevelt, Diehards, Unpredictables, Coat-Tail Riders, and New Dealers. Then off in a corner
is Senator Rush Holt, labeled “Natural-born Hell-raiser.” Life doesn’t stop at that. It says "Rush Holt is in a class
by himself.” Nuff sed. With The Staff Complaining about things is all too prevalent a pastime hereabouts, goodness knows, but
there is something that we'd like briefly to call to your attention. The remedy is in your own hands, too,
and won’t require a single petition. It is this matter of chapel services. Manners there, as you may have noticed,
are most conspicuously absent. From the occasional whistled accompaniment given the organ during the prelude, to the flock of paper
airplanes during the student announcements, there isn't much to indicate that the student body is the gentlemanly group it is
assumed to be. As someone remarked to us recently, often the faculty member conducting the service fails to get anything
like the attention or even respect to which he is entitled. Studying in chapel is rude, to say the least,
and in our meager experience, it never does much good, anyway. Probably the most obnoxious of these barbarisms, though, is
the hindering of students trying to make announcements. Often, the effect is that the announcement is totally unintelligible to many
to whom it is addressed; it might almost as well have never been made. This heckling is sometimes unintentional and
is always good-natured, of course, but the results are the same. Virtually everyone who stands in chapel has something to
say of real importance to a number of the audience, and it is only right that they be permitted to
hear. Having a little fun at the expense of a friend may be all right, but the thing is mighty
easily carried too far. What with the dances this week-end, we think it only appropriate to pass on to you
a little dope on the present state of the “big apple.” Our Princeton correspondent informs us that this dance, which
with the “little apple” was so near the heart of true Southerners last summer, still survives—nay, even flourishes—in the frozen
North. It lives, however, only in a warped and twisted form. In Yankee hands it has lost its pristine grace.
As might have been expected, the thing has been terribly commercialized. Now dancing masters like Arthur Murray will teach you
their version—for a price. Anyway, one of Murray's troupes of professional applers entertained at a big party at Princeton the
other night. According to our friend, the best they could do was a disreputable sort of “shag.” Being something of
an appler himself, our man felt perhaps he had better look into the matter. Cornering one of the performers, a
girl from Brooklyn, he asked if she knew how to apple Southern-fashion. “That way,” she retorted, “is not dancing.” “The
educational spoon in America is handled by competent and understanding teachers but the students should do the feeding themselves,” quoted
Dr. Alexis Carrel, ranking scientist, when interviewed by the Dartmouth student newspaper. —TOM PERRIN. GREATEST COLLEGE ATHLETE - JIM THORPE
- OF ALL THE IMMORTALS COLLEGES HAVE PRODUCED SINCE THE TURN OF THE CENTURY, ONE, AN INDIAN, STANDS HEAD AND
SHOULDERS ABOVE THE REST. THORPE ENTERED CARLISLE INDIAN SCHOOL IN 1906 AND SOON BECAME THE TERROR OF EASTERN GRIDIRONS. HE
WAS AN ALL-AMERICAN HALFBACK IN 1911 AND 1912. FROM FOOTBALL, JIM TURNED TO TRACK AND WON THE PENTATHLON AND DECATHLON
IN THE 1912 OLYMPICS. HE WAS ALSO A STAR IN BASEBALL, BREAKING INTO THE MAJOR LEAGUE WITH THE NEW YORK
GIANTS. “POP” WARNER, NOW COACH AT TEMPLE U, WAS THE RED TERROR'S MENTOR AT CARLISLE. Letters to the Editor MATTHIS
ATTACKS LAST WEEK'S LETTER... To The Davidsonian: I would like to take this opportunity to reply to a letter published
in last week's Davidsonian in its “Letters to the Editor” column. The Davidson student who didn’t have the backbone or
the strength of his convictions to enable him to sign his name obviously didn’t know what he was talking about.
A few narrow-minded under-dogs like this, who never miss a chance to kick their superiors in the back, have kept
us from gaining that complete unity among the student body which we want. The men referred to in his letter
are the most outstanding, the most popular men on our campus. Why this unknown considers himself capable of passing judgment
on such men as these, I can't quite see. These men did not give their approval to or sanction the
cause of the “disagreeable circumstances of a few weeks ago.” But when they saw they could help two of their
fellow students who were obviously the victims of circumstance, they immediately did all in their power to aid them, even
though it might result in serious consequences to themselves. That,Gentlemen, this is the kind of men we should want and
should be proud to have on our Student Council. Sincerely yours, GEORGE MATTHIS.

LINGLE DISCUSSES SCHOLARSHIPS... (Continued from Page 1)

Scholarships are not larger. Nearly every scholarship the College has is based upon an endowment of $1,000 which somebody in
the past has given Davidson for scholarship purposes. In other words, a scholarship is the annual income on $1,000. It
takes some mighty good financing at this particular time to make $1,000 yield $50 a year. Incidentally, I may say
that we always have more applicants than we have scholarships. With this in mind, the catalogue says: “It is earnestly
hoped that only those who are in absolute need will apply for scholarships.” Let me say again that the College
has no music scholarships and never has had any. Very Sincerely yours, WALTER L. LINGLE, President.

Quotable Quotes

“Two per cent of the people do the thinking for the remaining 98 per cent and you are a part
of the 2 per cent.” Dr. William F. Quillian, Director of the General Board of Christian Education of the Methodist
Church, South, flattered students at Birmingham-Southern College.

“It may seem strange but all great men slipped off their pedestals as soon as they began to beat a
path to the bathtub.” Dr. Sanders, a professor in education at De Paul University, saw this. Lecture remark picked up
by a campus columnist.

“Superficiality is the most undesirable characteristic of a large state university located in a small town.” Prof. Howard McCluskey of
the School of Education, University of Michigan, cited evidence of this superficiality in the overdressed women students and the stereotyped
“line.”

“Most human beings are fundamentally lazy.” Dr. Harold A. Edgerton of psychology at Ohio State University gave this statement as
the reason why more people did not “do something” about shortcomings they themselves realized they possessed.

Attended lecture Monday night with about six hundred other fellows, which proves that intellectually entertaining programs need not be compulsory
to pack ‘em in. On second thought, considering events of past few weeks, maybe the lecturer's subject—spirits—was misleading to some,
and that accounts for the crowd. Anyway, ‘twas a good hour and a half well spent with mystifying mediums, parlor
tricks, and messages from beyond to McGarity, Hall, and Smith. This medium evidently past scandal monger.

FALL FROLICS COMING: absolutely disgusted with lack of enthusiasm over coming weekend. A good band with Jimmy Fuller, looks like
fine weather—all the necessary elements except women, and thinking of same but making no effort towards obtaining such. Remember, a
losing weekend for the P-H Council will mean an inferior band for Mid-Winters, which is not a cheerful prospect after
some of the wild tales already given out to the many.

PITT GAME AT DURHAM: at the Tavern there, Reid Harmon discussing pro football prospects with Ace Parker—a highly technical discussion...
Brent Greene in dispute with another of the football greats, Liana... Perry Sloan, hometown boy, but with Mark Cauble going
from house to house in fruitless quest for dates... Hunky Harrison searching for Billy Hedrick, later infuriated in Greensboro when
Bledsoe termed his date Elmore Holt's girl... Mark Lillard with Dillinger on brain talking things over with Melvin Purvis... Ray
Pittman, Jerry Harris, Paul Marion, Tom McLean, and Billy Rainey headed back to school with good intentions, but—sidetracked in Greensboro
by female attentions.

AROUND CHARLOTTE: Dashing Dave Newbold and Dancing Duke Gilliam to formal dinner and big dance with Yanks at C. C.
C. Soon to be married Hannah Knowlton—All Wright with Hannah, but not so with Mister McLaughlin... At dance Friday night,
Alice Wright Murphy constantly pursued by Keesywetter while friend Dorsett with McKee, on rebound, bounced plumb to Randolph Macon—Carlton Stern.
(Hope haven't stuck my neck out)... Yates Faison really being body Thursday night.

GREENSBORO GRINS AT Mazie Hall who has shied away the past two weekends, wrongly given notoriety by medium Charlie Yates’
hot dog festival where Dave Warden secluded himself with fair damsel and refused to budge until one-thirty; where Harrison committed
faux pas with Sue, much to Fred Dennis’ chagrin... Bill Bradburn’s five-dollar bet concerning constancy of his girlfriend.

BIG NIGHT IN STATESVILLE Saturday night with Jimmy Gunn... Madhouse trip with Crooks, Watkins, Boyd, Bob Greene, Jack Lee, Bone
Crusher Morrison, and Lock Hunter... Lovely ladies in abundance, Misses Steele and Cheatum... Wines and Dunford to Rock Hill to
date high school girls... Doc King made long pilgrimage to Philadelphia where refused admission to service game by inconsiderate gatekeeper.
Neal Scott and Carl Hudson to Montreat—winter-time weather somewhat but so very warm at Pitt’s cottage with Montreat dates... Pete
McKnight with four peaceful nights at home climaxed by penthouse splurge... Bryant by way of Pitt-Duke to big conference with
Governor Hoey concerning Sunday School situation—also old flame in Raleigh... Tommy Glenn to Spartanburg where for inexplicable reasons he had
his face slapped... Arrowsmith and Barrow completely exhausted of New York by Sunday—Arrowsmith's first trip there—devitalizing town... Bob Wyatt returned
Monday from Raleigh and brought his big time with him—three girls...

CLOSING REMARK: Think of the 21 guys working under the new plan committee system, and give ‘em a break—cooperate.

Take It Easy By Rut Miller

CHARACTER SKETCH: This boy’s age is uncertain. When seen in the dormitories at all he is seen on the third
or fourth floor of West. Also seen on some afternoons in the halls of Chambers. He is a rabid football
fan and is always borrowing money to go to the games, borrow is a rather inappropriate word, as he comes
right out and asks the boys on his halls to give him the money. Nevertheless, he is a fine fellow
and the boys with whom he comes in contact every day admit that they don’t know what they would do
without him. He weighs about 180 pounds and has an extremely large stomach (or gut). He has a very, very
dark complexion. His favorite outfit for school wear is a white coat and dark trousers. Sometimes carries a broom to
protect himself. His favorite expression is: “Take it easy.” (T’ain't me.)

SECRET... A woman has two views of a secret: Either it's not worth keeping, or it's too good to keep.

Visit KING’S SODA & GRILL
FOUNTAIN SERVICE
SANDWICHES - LUNCHES
REGULAR DINNERS
Popular Brands of Cigarettes 12c (Camels, Luckies, Old Golds, Chesterfields, Raleigh, Piedmont)
Free Telephone
Corner 4th & S. Tryon St
