TEN MEN RECEIVE INVITATIONS TO OMICRON DELTA KAPPA

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

The Davidsonian

VOL. XXV DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., APRIL 28, 1937 CAMPUS CLOSE NO. 2

SELECT CHEERLEADER ELECTIONS STUDENTS

Omicron Delta Kappa Taps Ten Student Leaders

COMPANY ‘A’ AND THE SECOND PLATOON OF COMPANY ‘D’ WIN IN R. O. T.C. COMPETITIVE DRILL

Captain McClelland and Lieutenant Johnston Command Winning Units

COMMANDERS GET CUPS

Drill Judged By Oak Ridge Military Staff

Company A, of the local R. O. T. C. unit, under the command of Cadet Captain Ralph McClelland, marched away
with the beautiful silver cup awarded to the commander of the best drilled company in the local corps in the
annual competitive drill held Monday afternoon. Captain Aaron of Oak Ridge Military Academy conducted the drill and presented the problems
to the unit commanders, who also acted as a judge. Captain Aaron was assisted in selecting the winners by Major
Larkins, Commandant at Oak Ridge, and Lieutenant Whitaker, also of the staff at Oak Ridge. The judges criticized especially the
fine points of the close order drill which was executed. Company A was the unanimous choice of the three judging
officers while there was a rather close race for platoon honors. Company A succeeds Company B as the possessor of
the red ribbon which crowns the flag of the best drilled company.

In the competition, each unit was brought into the Stadium separately and presented with the drill problems by Captain Aaron.
The commander then derived his order from that particular problem and put the company through the movement. The entire battalion
and the local headquarters staff were complimented by Captain Aaron for their conduct in the competition. “Davidson College should be
proud of the excellent work you have done this afternoon,” he told the assembled battalion before announcing the contest winners.

WSOC WILL BROADCAST RADIO SKETCHES SOON

Series of Dramatic Episodes To Be Part of Centennial Celebration

A series of radio sketches presenting Davidson life as it was and is will be presented over station WSOC in
Charlotte beginning Thursday afternoon at 3:30 o'clock. This series of dramatic episodes is planned as a part of the Centennial
celebration culminating in the pageant to be presented in Richardson Stadium on June 7. The script preparation is under the
auspices of the Sigma Upsilon literary fraternity, while the programs will be handled by Mr. Norris of the station's staff
and Mr. Viehman, director of the pageant. At least two short sketches will be included in the half-hour broadcast over
station WBT on Monday night. The first episode, scripts for which were prepared by Professor Chalmers Davidson and Harold Sugg,
dramatizes the chief events in the life of General William D. Davidson, Revolutionary War hero for whom Davidson College is
named. The second episode to be presented on May 6, deals with the founding of Davidson College, and includes humorous
scenes during a labor revolt by the students in the early 1840's. Scripts for this episode were prepared by Hal
Overton and Gibson Smith. The presentation of May 13 deals with the trial of the famous Marshal Ney and later
developments in the life of the mysterious Peter Stuart Ney.

(Continued on Page 6)

New Publications Editors

ANNUAL BOWERY BALL WITH FRANK DAILEY

Many Alumni Attend Dances

The time has come,’ Sam Ryburn (left), and Jim Dorsett (right), have been selected by Davidson students to edit, respectively,
next year’s “Scripts ’n Pranks” and “Quips ’n Cranks.”

Ryburn Defeats Covington and Rader in Scripts ’n Pranks Race

DORSETT ELECTS STAFF

Seven Sophomores Are Appointed By Editor

Sam Ryburn was elected editor of Scripts ’n Pranks for next year, and Jim Dorsett was chosen editor of Quips
’n Cranks in the elections held recently. Ryburn, who is from Salisbury, N. C., was elected on the first ballot,
eliminating Mac Covington and Bill Rader. Ryburn has been Art Editor for the past year, while Covington and Rader were
Managing Editors. Ryburn stated that due to the N.C. C. P.-A. meeting this past week, he had been unable to
select a staff as yet.

Dorsett, who is also from Salisbury, had to defeat three men in the competition. They were: Euclid Pratt, Jack Lafferty,
and Gil Young. Dorsett has chosen seven sophomores to work with him on the annual. They are Wesley Coghill, Photographic
Editor; Warren Stack, Art Editor; Ovid Bell, Engraving Editor; and Don McInnis, Assistant Editor.

Hector McGeachy To Edit Handbook

Succeeds Winn as Editor of Y. M. C. A. Publication; To Name Staff Soon

Hector McGeachy has recently been appointed editor of the 1937-1938 Wildcat Handbook. McGeachy succeeds John Winn as editor. McGeachy has
been active in “Y” work during the three years that he has been at Davidson, having been connected with “Boys
Work” this year. The Wildcat Handbook, though small, is one of the most useful of Davidson annual publications. It is
not only useful to freshmen, but to upperclassmen as well.

The Davidson College Y. M. C. A. had only a slight lull last week in the number of deputations it
sent out. The only two deputations consisted of Sid Crane and Bob King, who went together to the Westminster Presbyterian
Church in Charlotte, where they spoke on “Young Africa;” and Don McInnis, who went to the Charlotte Y. M. C.
A., where he spoke to a group of boys Saturday afternoon. During the spring months of the year, the “Y”
always sends out more deputations than at any other time of the year.

State Press Association Elects Officers For Year

Vowles, Editor of Davidsonian, Chosen as New Treasurer

The North Carolina Collegiate Press Association closed its annual three-day meeting, held this year at High Point College, by the
election of Charles Dunnagan as the new president, Warren Stack as first vice-president; William Staten, second vice-president; Miss Georgia Underwood,
secretary, and Dick Vowles, treasurer. Dunnagan of Elkin, is a student at N. C. State College; Stack of Monroe, is
a junior at Duke University; Staten of Reidsville, is a junior at Wake Forest; Miss Underwood of Charlotte, is a
student at Queens-Chicora College; and Vowles of Davidson is a student at Davidson College and editor of The Davidsonian. During
the session, the following awards were made: Chanticleer, Duke: Class A Magazine; Chanticleer, Duke: Class A Annual; Davidsonian, Davidson College:
Class B Newspaper; and Scripts ’n Pranks, Davidson College: Class B Annual. Honorable mention was given to the Technician, the
Agromeck, and the Wautauga, N. C. State College publications, in the Class A awards and to the Owl and Old
Gold and Black, Wake Forest College publications, in the Class B publications. Perhaps the most significant piece of business was
the amendment to the constitution whereby...Executive was chosen for the Association. LeForte of Greensboro, assistant dean of students at N.C.
State College, was elected to this newly created constitution secretary post. Romeo said it will offer for that well-known BOWERY
BALL with which the Davidson College Pan-Hellenic Council ends its 1936-37 social season. The last dance of the school year,
the colorful affair will be given in the Charlotte Armory-Auditorium the night of Saturday, May 8, and the familiar strains
of Frank Dailey and his famous Meadowbrook Orchestra will be heard.

The BOWERY, as it is known to hundreds of Davidson friends and alumni everywhere, is the only ball of its
kind in the Carolinas and has met with unvarying success for so many years that it may well be ranked
among the college traditions. It has always been remarkable for the bizarre costumes, the general spirit of fun, and informality.
The Bowery title has long since been left behind in all but name. "Dress as you please" seems the rule
of the evening, although costumes are always colorful and original, and competition runs high for the costume prize usually awarded
at intermission.

Military Ball
This year, as last, the Bowery falls on the same weekend as the Scabbard and Blade sponsored Military Ball and
will have its full complement of inter-fraternity house-parties, banquets, etc. There will be tea dances on both Friday and Saturday
afternoons.

Sponsors
Pan-Hellenic sponsors are: Miss Jane Alston Saunders, Campbellsville, Ky., with Bob Johnston, Beta Theta Pi; Miss Staunton, Va., with Ken
Knorr, Pi Kappa Alpha; Miss Elizabeth Gammon, Charlotte, with J.C. Crowell, Jr., Kappa Alpha; Miss Cubby Cate, (Continued on Page
6)

ELMORE HOLT ELECTED VARSITY CHEERLEADER
Wins Over Willer Dison and Jane Simmons

Elmore Holt of Greensboro, a member of the rising Senior Class and of the Phi Gamma Delta fraternity, was elected
varsity cheerleader on April 6, winning over Willer Dison and Jane Simmons. Holt has served as junior cheerleader this season
and is also a member of the varsity gym team. He will swing into action next fall with the opening
of the football season to supervise the yelling of the Davidson rooting section.

OFFICERS INAUGURATED
The chapel period on last Friday morning, April 23, was devoted to installation ceremonies for the new student body officers.
Wade Boggs, outgoing president of the senior class, presided, and Walter Dickson, retiring president of the Y.M.C.A., conducted the devotional
exercises.

1937 SOCIAL SEASON
Military Ball Will Be Friday

Professor Currie Strikes Keynote of Centennial in His Address
JACKSON MAKES TALK
Program Lasted Over Period Of Two Hours

Professor Archibald Currie struck the keynote of the Centennial when he said, “Davidson is a great institution” in the principal
Founder's Day Address which he delivered before the assembled student body and faculty on April 22. Founders’ Day was observed
by a two-hour program Thursday morning, April 22, as classes were suspended from 10:15 o’clock until noon. The principal feature
of the program was the address given by Professor Currie of the Department of Political Science, which marked the official
opening of the celebration of Davidson’s “first hundred years.” Mr. Frank Lee Jackson, college treasurer, introduced by President Walter Lingle
as the best college treasurer in the country, spoke after Professor Currie and discussed the question of Davidson's physical advancements
during the past century. In conclusion, Mr. Jackson suggested that each student take a real part in the celebration by
helping erect the much-needed military armory.

Developed in the body of Professor Currie’s address were four main reasons why Davidson is a great institution. First, Davidson
has had fine material (Continued on Page 6)

Board Elects New Business Managers
The Publications Board met last Monday afternoon, April 26, and elected Charles Moore business manager of the Davidsonian for next
year, Wallace Tomlinson of Quips and Cranks, and Henry Harkey of Scripts and Pranks.

Moore is a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity and the Davidson (Continued on Page 6)

Logan Succeeds Dr. Arbuckle; Hemphill Takes Place of Late Dr. Lingle
Edwin Logan has been chosen to replace Dr. H.B. Arbuckle as head of the Chemistry Department. Dr. Arbuckle requested that
he be allowed to retire after nine years of service, and the administration reluctantly let him go. Dr. Logan graduated
from Emory University in 1924 and took his master’s degree there in 1925. After teaching for several years at a
junior college in Georgia, he entered upon graduate work at Johns Hopkins University. While there, he became intimately associated with
Dr. G.H. Cartledge, an alumnus of Davidson, who later recommended him for the position.

FOUR SENIORS AND SIX JUNIORS GIVEN BIDS FROM ODK
Lt. Colonel P.M.S. Delta Circle of Omicron Delta Kappa Taps Eleven

Dean Christian Gauss of Princeton Will Be on Evening Program
DR. MARTIN WILL SPEAK
Dean Laing to Speak at Graduation Exercises

Setting of the Centennial of Davidson College, Delta Circle of Omicron Delta Kappa, national leadership fraternity, held its annual tapping
session during the chapel hour Thursday morning, April 22, and tapped four members of the senior class and six rising
juniors into the circle. John T. Rhett, president of ODK, tapped his gavel three times, and the following were honored:
Col. J.T. Rhett, Faculty, also honored were Wilbur Hill, Faison, Scott, Patterson, Barrow, Lafferty, Vowles, and Williams.

JACKSON IS SPEAKER
Dorsett, Hill, Lafferty, Vowles, and Williams Extended Bids

Edwards, president of Omicron Delta Kappa, delivered an interesting address on the history of ODK. (Continued on Page 6)

DAVIDSON PLAYS HOST
Lens Students Enjoy Day and Night of Fun

Davidson College played host to the Lens students, cementing bonds of friendship through a day and night of fun and
frolic. The evening’s entertainment was provided by Chubby and his rhythmical band. (Continued on Page 6)
