WEDNESDAY, APRIL 7, 1937 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Five

Sergeant Clarence Neely Added To R.O.T.C. Staff
Comes to Davidson From Atlanta to Take Over New Job as Clerk.

JOINED ARMY IN 1928
Staff Feels Fortunate in Getting Neely

The staff of the R. O. T. C. department here was increased by one Sunday when Sergeant Clarence C. Neely arrived in Davidson to take over his new job as clerk. Sergeant Neely comes here from Atlanta where he was recently re-enlisted in the service. Before re-enlisting he was stationed at Anniston, Ala. The military department feels that it is fortunate in having the sergeant stationed here. He spent a year at Central State Teachers College in Oklahoma, is a graduate of the Army Finance School, and, in addition, holds a commission of second lieutenant of finance reserve.

Sergeant Neely has been in the army since the year 1928. He has spent most of his service at Fort Benning, Georgia, where he was first a member of the 29th U. S. Infantry and then of the finance department. He comes to Davidson highly recommended. For several years the Davidson staff has been in need of an additional member to care for increased responsibilities resulting from enlarged enrollment in the R. O. T. C. courses. With Sergeant Neely taking charge of the clerical duties, the work can now be more proportionately distributed. It is hoped that Sergeant Neely will enjoy his residence in Davidson and his association with Davidson College.

HARKEY AND BOB KING SPEAK AT “Y" MEETING

Henry Harkey and Robert King represented Davidson on the weekly Y. M. C. A. deputation to the Charlotte Y. M. C. A. Each spoke before different meetings held for the two groups of the “Y” last Sunday. Harkey spoke on “Influence” before the group of older boys. George McCachren, a “Y” member, was in charge of this meeting and Miss Dunbar served as pianist. Frances King spoke to a group of younger boys, addressing them on the subject of “The Greatest Missionary Work Ever Done.” This meeting was presided over by Jim McClintock and H. Thurston Davis, members of the “Y.” Miss Lucy Paschal served as pianist for this group of boys. This group decided to elect officers at their next meeting the following Sunday. They then nominated two boys from the group for each office, from whom the officers are to be selected.

COLLEGE WHO'S WHO
(Continued from Page 1)

The students statistics summarizing the whole list of names are given. It is interesting to note that Ohio leads among the states in having more of its natives listed than any other state. Teaching is the preferred vocation among those whose names are in Who's Who. The principal hobby is reading. The honor that appears most is that of a class officer.

GOOD NEWS

Ithaca, N. Y.—(ACP)—Permanent jobs for college graduates are now being offered in greater numbers than in the prosperous years of '28 and ’29, John M. Walker recently. This Davidson Graduate Now at Union Seminary

John Mack Walker, Jr., class of ‘36, has just recently been awarded one of the Latta scholarships at Union Theological Seminary, in Richmond, Va. Walker is a member of the first-year class at the seminary. He received the award for outstanding scholastic achievement in his work the first year. Walker, who is the son of Rev. J. M. Walker, pastor of Steele Creek Presbyterian Church, graduated from Davidson last year with a very creditable record. He was a member of Phi Beta Kappa, Sigma Upsilon, and Eta Sigma Phi fraternities. He was on the Y. M. C. A. cabinet, and the Honorary Fraternity Council. Walker was also an assistant in biology and Bible.

Professors Teach Lingle’s Students

Changes in the classes of History, caused by the recent death of Dr. T. W. Lingle have been announced. Professors Beaty, Davidson and Johnston will take over the classes taught by Dr. Lingle. The changes are as follows: History 22-24 will meet at the regular time with Professor Davidson. History 42-8 will meet at the regular time with Professor Davidson. History 82-7 will meet at the regular time with Professor Beaty. History 12A-12B will meet, not at the regular time, but at appointed periods on Tuesday and Thursdays at 11:15 and on Friday nights at 7:15 P. M., in Professor Currie’s large classroom, with Professor Johnston in charge.

CURRIE SPEAKS
(Continued from Page 1)

The alumni seem greatly interested in the coming centennial celebration, especially in the pageant, reported Professor Currie. Members of the New York and the Washington chapters are planning to attend the exercises, he states. They intend to make the trip in special pullmans.

Good Printing Pays Good Profits

Printing indifferently done usually advertises a concern as one of the kind which does not consider the importance of the Quality of its Product. Have us place your printing on the same high standard.

ENVELOPES - BILL HEADS - BLOTTERS - LETTER HEADS - TYPEWRITER LETTERS - VOICES - ENCLOSURES, ETC.

Call us 33-5727
STANDARD PRINTING CO.
117 Garland Court, Charlotte, N. C.

GROUP HONORS DR. HARDING AT LAST MEETING
Many Delegates Attend Meeting of Classical Association In Nashville

VARIOUS PAPERS READ
New Orleans Will Be Scene of Fall Meeting

C. R. Harding, professor of Greek at Davidson College, was elected president of the Classical Association of the Middle West and South at a meeting of the association held in Nashville, Tenn., March 25-27. Delegates to the convention also elected Clyde Pharr, of the classical faculty of Vanderbilt and editor of a series of Latin texts, vice president, and Ruth Carroll, teacher of Latin in Hartsville, S. C., secretary-treasurer to serve with Dr. Harding.

The meeting was characterized by a large number of papers covering a wide range of classical subjects. Slide pictures accompanied many of these papers. Besides Dr. Harding, representatives of three other North Carolina schools, the University of North Carolina, Wake Forest, and Salem, attended the convention. Guy Harrer, of the University, presided at one session of the group, and is now a member of the Executive Committee. He is also serving as associate editor of the Classical Journal. Hubert M. Poteat, of Wake Forest, read a paper on Rome and the Christians. Marie B. Deneen, of the Woman's College of the University, and J. Penrose Harland, also of the University, were unable to be present on account of illness.

The matter of paramount interest at the Nashville meeting was a report and discussion of the status of Latin in public schools today. Delegates discussed efforts to check the growing tendency of students to omit the study of Latin in high schools where at least two units of foreign language are required for graduation. In pursuit of more facts on this subject A. P. Wagener, of the College of William and Mary, is chairman of a large fact-finding committee making a detailed investigation as to the present status of classical education throughout the Middle West and South. Under the program of this committee one member of the group will be placed at the head of each of five regions in the territory of the association, and this head will secure the aid of an adjunct committee member in each state. A detailed questionnaire will be sent out, and with the information secured it is believed that the association can do much to further the cause of modern languages and especially Latin in public high schools. The Southern section of the association plans to meet this fall probably at New Orleans, or at some point near that city.

DR. THOMAS LINGLE
(Continued from Page 1)

Leipzig, and in 1898 he was given his Ph. D. degree at Leipzig. Returning to the United States in the same year, he went to the Princeton Theological Seminary and was graduated in 1901. Later he was a student of the University of Neuchatel, Switzerland, and of the Sorbonne. Taking up teaching as his profession, he accepted in 1901 the chair of history in Mackenzie College, Sao Paulo, Brazil, a position he filled for four years. Next he was called to the position of the president of Blackburn College at Carlinville, Ill, for four years. From 1908 to 1927, he was professor of modern languages at Davidson. He had been professor of European and ancient history since 1927. Also for the past five years he has served as professor of European history in the summer sessions of the University of Virginia. During the World War he

Rhett To Inspect R. O. T. C. Unit

Lt. Col. Rhett will inspect the R. O. T. C. unit at North Carolina State College on April 27 and 28. This spring all of the units in the Fourth Corps Area will be inspected by a P. M. S. & T. from another unit within the area. It will be the first time that such a plan is to be used. Col. Caffrey from North Carolina will inspect Wofford on April 29 and 30. Other plans show that Major Tate from Wofford will inspect the unit at the University of Tennessee on May 13 and 14. The Davidson unit is to be inspected by Lieut.-Col. M. E. Gunner from the University of Tennessee.

E.D. TURNER AWARDED TEACHER FELLOWSHIP IN SPANISH AT U. N.C.
Will Pursue Graduate Work Toward Master’s Degree As Assistant

HAS GOOD RECORD HERE
Several Hundred Apply For Fellowships

E. D. Turner has recently been made a Teaching Fellow in the Department of Romance Languages at the University of North Carolina for the coming year, according to a letter he received from the Dean of the School of Graduate Work at the University. While holding this position, he will continue his work in the subject in which he is now majoring at Davidson.In preparation, “Speedy” will fellowship in Spanish. At Davidson, there, he will continue preparation for his candidacy for a Master's Degree. The position of Teaching Fellow requires the holder to give part-time service, either in teaching or in some other form of assisting, but leaves enough time for him to successfully pursue his graduate work. According to the letter of notification received, it is no small honor which is being conferred on him. The letter said: “Our fellows next year, in all departments, are men of a high type of ability. They are selected, twenty-six in all, from several hundred applicants.”

While at Davidson, “Speedy” has been an outstanding student. He is a member of Phi Beta Kappa, national honorary scholastic fraternity, and serves as secretary of Sigma Delta Pi, honorary Spanish fraternity. Also, he belongs to Eta Sigma Phi, classical fraternity, is a first-lieutenant in the R.O.T.C., and is an associate editor of The Davidsonian. He is a member of Sigma Phi Epsilon, social fraternity, and represents them on the Pan Hellenic Council.

Dr. Lingle did welfare work with the Tenth French army and was decorated by the French minister of war for his World War work. During his lifetime, Dr. Lingle affiliated himself with many organizations and proved of invaluable aid in many of them. He was a trustee of Mitchell College in Statesville and only recently made a trustee of Converse College in Spartanburg, S.C. He was active and influential in the Alliance Francaise, Phi Beta Kappa, Phi Gamma Delta, American Association of University Professors, Omicron Delta Kappa, International Relations Club, and many others. Through his position in the college, Dr. Lingle was helpful to countless students, and his passing leaves a difficult gap to be filled. His many friends bemoan the death of one who left such a deep and lasting stamp on his college and community.

DRY GOODS GROCERIES RADIO SUPPLIES HARDWARE
M. H. GOODRUM & CO.
Zenith & RCA Radios
CARS FOR RENT
M. P. Henderson
GULF GAS & OIL

NEW OFFICERS TO BE NAMED FROM “D” CLUB
Tom Corbin Begins Election For New Officers in Athletic Association
ALL ARE “D” CLUB MEN
Present Officers Will Give Up Post Soon

The Spring annual Davidson College elections continued this week when Tom Corbin, President of the Athletic Association, began the election of Athletic Association officers to succeed him and his cohorts. On Tuesday morning at the regular chapel hour, President Corbin opened the floor for nominations for the four main offices: President, two Vice Presidents, and Secretary-Treasurer. The voting by secret ballot began this morning. All members of the junior class who have made their letter in either football, basketball, wrestling, track, baseball, tennis, or golf and are members of the “D” Club, are eligible for nomination and election. The two vice presidents will be chosen from the same group. The office of secretary and treasurer will be filled by a member of the freshman or sophomore class who has earned his class numerals in some sport this year. The present officers who will soon pass from office and their authoritative leadership are: President, Tom Corbin; first Vice-President, Dennis Wade; second Vice-President, Fred Barrow; Secretary-Treasurer, Ned Iverson.

GERMAN FRATERNITY TO HOLD MEETING
On Monday night, April 12th, the German Club and Delta Phi Alpha, honorary German fraternity, will hold a joint meeting in the home of Dr. G. R. Vowles. Ovid Bell, Frank Brown, and Sam Webb, three members of the German Club, will give a dramatization of Hans Sachs’ immortal farce, “Der Fahrende Schuler im Paradies.” The rest of the program will consist of a book report given by Monroe Wicker, a member of Delta Phi Alpha. Mr. Wicker will review Carl Zuckmayer’s play, “Der Hauptmann Von Kopenick,” based on a real-life incident stranger than fiction.

Princeton Students Try New Experiment
Criticism that college students are not allowed to break their shackles long enough to exercise initiative is being met at Princeton University by the introduction of a “free week,” during which upperclassmen can carry on study independently. This plan, designed for juniors and seniors, will be conducted experimentally for one year. Upperclassmen are being released from classrooms for the week preceding the annual spring vacation. An outstanding feature of the Princeton curriculum has been the amount of self-education expected of juniors.

With spring really coming in earnest, the social fraternities have either already begun celebrating or are making great plans for the future. Spring house cleaning, parties, picnics, banquets, conventions, and other activities appear on the month’s calendar. The usual amount of weekend visiting has increased, and many alumni have been entertained.

Beta Theta Pi
The house has been partly furnished during the past week. Brother Wilbur Edwards has returned from the Omicron Delta Kappa, honorary leadership fraternity convention in Atlanta. Brother Malone spent a short time at the University of Tennessee.

Pi Kappa Alpha
The chapter was host to the alumni from nearby places at a feed on Sunday night. From Statesville were Zeb V. Long, A. L. Mills, and Bush Mills; from Charlotte, W. B. McGuire, Jr., and George P. Harris; from Smithfield, G. W. Grier; from Hickory, William M. Archer; from Davidson, Dr. H. B. Arbuckle. Brother Walt Dickson remained in Columbia for a visit after the track meet Saturday. Brother Cline followed the golfers in the Augusta Master’s Tourney during the weekend. Brother Snow has returned from a trip with the golf team.

Kappa Alpha
The chapter entertained at a delightful party held just before the holidays in a cabin on the Catawba River. Mr. and Mrs. McGarity, parents of Brother McGarity, chaperoned the group, which was made up of about 25 brothers and their dates. Brother Gil Palmer has been elected president of the chapter while Brothers Newell and Graham have also been elected to high positions. Brother Sadler will represent the chapter on the Pan Hellenic Council next year. Brother Sam Hutaff of Fayetteville was a guest of the chapter for the weekend and was present at the feed on Sunday evening. Brother “Coot” Gladden was either in Chester or Spartanburg, but wherever he was, so was his girl. Brothers Lutz and Abel visited their homes, and Brother Taylor was the guest of Ray Pitman in Fayetteville.

Pi Kappa Phi
A number of the Brothers enjoyed a weekend with the Alpha Delta Pi's from Queens on Lake Monmontia near Kings Mountain. Miss Mary Lib Moore and Miss Jane Hashagen of Charlotte were supper guests of the chapter on Sunday evening. Brothers Burgess and Willis visited during the weekend. Brother Maples has returned from a golf trip. The regular weekly feed was held Sunday night.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon
Miss Lib Gammon and Miss Betty Shull of Charlotte were visitors to the chapter Saturday. Brother Newton also visited here during the weekend. Brother Thomas went home Saturday evening. Brother Marchant spent some time in Greenville while many other Brothers remained closer to home to find entertainment in Charlotte.

Kappa Sigma
The chapter is making preparations to entertain the Queen's chapter of Chi Omega here this Friday afternoon and evening. Brother Barrow visited in Columbia while there for a track meet. Brother Kuykendall was also in Columbia for the track meet. Brothers Henderson and Gaw and others were in Charlotte Saturday and Sunday. Brother Pitman visited his home in Fayetteville. Brothers Carlson and Norfleet were away for the weekend.

Phi Gamma Delta
Brother Haymes, Section Chief, visited here on April 1st for a short visit. This weekend, Section Five of Phi Gamma Delta will hold a convention here at Davidson. Representatives from five chapters will be present at the session. A dance Saturday night will be the highlight of the weekend’s merriment. Brother David Newbold’s mother has been a visitor here this week and was a guest of the chapter at the feed Sunday evening. Brothers Owen Cooke and Hal Arthur spent the weekend in Greensboro. Brother Lipfert went to his home in Winston-Salem.

Sigma Phi Epsilon
A feed is being planned in honor of Dr. and Mrs. G. R. Vowles for next Sunday night. On the following Saturday night, April 17th, the chapter is looking forward to a banquet. Another outstanding social event being planned is a house party which will be on the weekend of May 15th. Several members of the local chapter will attend the Sig-Ep Ball given by the N.C. State chapter next Saturday. Brother John Doty made time for double visiting there, spending Saturday and Sunday at Winthrop.

Phi Delta Theta
B.C. Childs, Province President, and Brother Frank J. Mitchell, National Alumni Committeeman, visited the chapter Monday evening. Following dinner, a meeting was held, and among those present were Brothers Foreman and Williams of the faculty. Brother Branch has been in Atlanta attending the national ODK convention. Brothers Covington and Breeden went to their homes. Brother Allan was at Brenau while Brothers Beall and Luther visited the girls at Converse. Complete renovation of the interior of the house is practically completed. Brother Glenn was unable to drop down to Spartanburg for the first time in several weeks.

Ivey's Men’s Shop
Brown and white combination with leather sole for general knock-about wear. Light, cool, patterned after a costly custom-made original. Crosby Square, the national favorite. As advertised in Esquire and TIME.
J. B. IVEY & CO.

PATRONIZE DAVIDSON’S 5 & 10c STORE
SOUTHERN 5 & 10c Store
DESK LAMPS