WEDNESDAY, DEC. 1, 1937 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Five

Commissioner Promises New Road to City
Charlotte To Statesville Highway to Be Improved By State Commission

The highway between Charlotte and Statesville, passing through Davidson, will be widened and generally improved in the near future by
the State Highway Department. This improvement has been promised a committee of Davidson citizens by Commissioner Tom Wolfe, State Highway
Commissioner for this district, consisting of ten counties in this vicinity. The committee, composed of Postmaster Stough, Mayor Griffith, and
Dr. Archibald Currie, of the Davidson College faculty, has been working on this project for some time and having first
presented it to the county commissioners and the Mooresville Chamber of Commerce, who both approved the project, they took it
to Mr. Wolfe. Mr. Wolfe has also proposed that the next highway to be worked on in this district will
be number 21, the road in question between Charlotte and Statesville. The highway, which is now an 18-foot road, will
be widened to 21 feet and the numerous curves on it straightened to a large extent, while the remaining curves
will be rebanked so as to make them as safe as possible. These improvements are badly needed and will be
of great benefit to the people of this section as well as the exceptionally large number of tourists using this
highway.

Davidson Buys Sewage Plant
Chemical Co. Sells $100,000 Disposal Plant

The town of Davidson has just recently accepted a sewage disposal plant, erected here two years ago by the Bio-Reduction
Co., as an experiment and offered to the town at a very low price. The Bio-Reduction Co. built the plant
at a cost of $100,000 as a revolutionary experiment in the problem of sewage disposal, and they offered it to
the town council at a cost of $17,000 and maintenance costs of $25 per million gallons of sewage. Mr. Shad,
Mr. Kuhn, and Mr. Rodda are large stockholders in the plant, which is the first of its kind in the
world, and are still working on it in hopes of improving it still further. Another similar plant, on a much
larger scale, will soon be constructed in Montreal, Canada.

Dennis Dropped After Long Gain

Fred Dennis, hard-running halfback of the Davidson backfield, is shown above as he was brought to the ground by Boots
Mumford, captain of the Wake Forest Deacons, after a nice gain through the Deacon forward wall. Also trying to stop
the hard-charging Dennis are Glass (62), Evans (21), Powers (32), and Pate (74).

Among the Greeks

Beta Theta Pi—
Brothers Abbott and Bush attended the Pan-Hellenic Council. Brother Abbott also went to the Duke-Pitt game. Brother Ritter, president of
the national fraternity, and Brother Steaszall, district president, visited the local chapter.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon—
Pledge Pete Marchant, Nick Nicholson, Perry Sloan, and Mark Cauble went to the Duke-Pitt game in Durham. Goby James and
Alex Morrow went home to Laurinburg. Pledge George Grantham went to his home in Fremont. Erle Austin went to New
York for the week.

Pi Kappa Alpha—
Joe Shelton and John Scott spent the week-end in Statesville. Joe Brinson spent Thanksgiving at home in High Point. Teeny
Lafferty and Vernon Youngblood spent the week-end at home in Concord. John Horton went home to Albemarle. Bob Garrison spent
the week-end in Raleigh. Rufus Allison, Charlie Akers went to their homes in Charlotte. David Russell made a trip to
Virginia.

Kappa Alpha—
Visiting over the week-end were: Sam Spencer at home in Columbia, Bob Able and Dick Palmer covering both North and
South Carolina, taking in all the sights. Charles Hines, Jim Dunford, and Joe Moore went to Winthrop in Rock Hill;
Blakely Montgomery to Kingstree; Bill Lemon at home in Sumter; Paul Marion, Dick Taylor, and Fred Dennis to the Duke-Pitt
game in Durham; Tom Perrin at home in Spartanburg.

Phi Gamma Delta—
Ken Darby, Jim Dorsett, and Dan McKee traveled to Lynchburg, Va. over the week-end. George Richmond and Fred Stair spent
the week-end in Georgia.

Kappa Sigma—
Bill Black went to Raeford to visit his aunt and uncle. Bill Rainey went to his home in Fayetteville. Charlie
Yates, Ed Glenn, and Gray Hunter went to Greensboro. Neal Stowe went home to Greenville. Stuart Oglesby and Carl Hudson
went to Montreat. Wade Barrow returned from New York.

Greeks Finish Ball Tourney
Interclass and Interfrat Basketball Starts

The interfraternity and interclass intramural programs are fast gaining more and more popularity on the Davidson campus. In the football
program, a round-robin tournament was used. The sophomore team, undefeated and unscored on, repeated this year, winning their second consecutive
championship. The inter-fraternity program, which immediately followed the class tourney, has been hotly contested from the beginning. Several of the
fraternities boasted excellent teams, but as the finale draws near, the Kappa Sigs, Phi Delts, and Phi Gams are bidding
for top honors. The inter-class and intrafraternity basketball tourney is next on the program. The round-robin system will not be
used. Since the gymnasium must accommodate all the teams, it is to run on a single-elimination basis.

Seven Seniors Are Bid
(Continued from Page 1)

make the student relationship in the department closer. Good has been promoted to members in various ways. No definite date
has been set for the initiation of these seven men, but it will probably be during the latter part of
this week.

Hoover to Speak Here
(Continued from Page 1)

public. His evening address will be given to members of Phi Beta Kappa and their guests.

COLLEGE CAREER DESCRIBED

What makes for the ideal college career? Three men prominent in education recently answered this question in the Daily Princetonian,
Princeton undergraduate newspaper, for the benefit of the class. The editors of the paper requested Dr. Harold Willis Dodds, president
of the college, Dr. Robert K. Root, dean of the faculty, and Dr. Christian Gauss, dean of the college, to
present in 1000-word articles their conception of the ideal career at Princeton. Dr. Dodds set the keynote of the series
in the opening article when he asserted that the term "ideal career" is too vague to have any standing. He
explained that the college man must understand that college is not a mere preparation for life (as too many say)
but is life itself—as real as any. Dean Root built on this foundation, telling the class that the main function
of a university is enlightenment. Dr. Gauss, departing from the method used by Dr. Dodds and Dean Root, explained that
the ideal career is one that results in enlightenment.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

neréte significance. “To as anyone will ever live in it like the pot of gold at the end of the
rainbow,” governed by the standards of life in general.” Dr. Gau

SPECIAL REDUCTIONS
Waffles and Coffee __ 20c
Hot Cakes and Coffee __ 15c
Supper From 5:30 to 8:00
$5.75 MEAL TICKET FOR $5.00
THE LITTLE PEP
DAVIDSON, N. C.

Courtesy Charlotte N

Playing his last game as a member of a Davidson college football team, was the mainstay of the Wildcats’ attack,
getting loose several times for nice runs. On the defense, Dennis played a bang-up game, stopping many of the Deacon
plays. In the last two years Dennis has played approximately every quarter.

John J. Kelley Suggests Improvements In Dress
“Don’t Wear Suit Two Days In Succession, and Watch Your Accessories”

Geniuses, millionaires, and castaways don't have to worry about their appearances. They may be as shabby as they please. But
if you're not an eccentric, a magnate, or a neglected artist, your dress should concern you.

Your girl doesn't like you because you look like a collar ad, but you may be sure that your spick-and-span
appearance helped to make a good impression.

Dr. Gwynn, of the Davidson faculty, will address a group of older Hi-Y boys at their annual convention in Charleston,
S.C. His subject will be “Vocational Guidance,” based on the theme of the conference, “Facing Life Squarely.” Included among the
other speakers are Mayor Burnet R. Maybank of Charleston, General Charles P. Summerall, president of the Citadel; Dr. Samuel W.
Grafflin, Y.M.C.A. national lecturer; and Dr. W.H. Frazer of Charlotte, president of Queens College.

William B. McAulay, secretary of the Y.M.C.A. at Davidson, will accompany the delegation. They will leave for Charleston on Friday
morning and will return on Sunday. Included in this group are all twelve members of the Hi-Y club of Davidson
High School, the first Hi-Y club formed by the Y.M.C.A. in the state.

John J. Kelley suggests improvements in dress: “Don’t wear a suit two days in succession. Good materials return to their
unwrinkled shape when they have a rest. Two suits worn alternately last more than three times as long as one
worn continuously.”

Clothes Hangers
Use wooden clothes hangers. Those thin wire ones from the cleaners create creases at the shoulders of your jacket.

Harmonize
Pay particular attention to the harmony of your collar line and lapels. A relatively small investment in accessories can make
a big difference.

The Hi-Y club of Winston-Salem is proud to announce that Miss Betty Bahnson of Winston-Salem has been elected chapter sponsor
for this year.

Phi Delta Theta—
Rea L. Penney went with P.M. Knight to Shelby to spend the weekend. Bill and Lloyd Feuchtenberger visited Jimmy Galyon
at Reinhardt in Lincolnton and Shelby. The pledges are as follows: Tommy Gilreath spent the weekend in Greenville, Brent Green,
Reid Harmon, Sam Cothran, Wally Pannisse, and Willard Goodk went to Durham to see the Duke-Pitt game. Pledges Gene Vereen
and Jim Dunlap spent the weekend in their respective homes in Moultrie, Ga. Bob Scarborough went home to Eastover.

HAIR CUTS FOR THE DANCES
DAVIDSON BARBER SHOP

ERNEST ELLISON, Inc.
ERNEST ELLISON
ROBT. E. ELLISON
Fire, Casualty and Marine Insurance
113-115 East Fourth St.
Charlotte, N.C.

Soda Fountain
Stationery
Candies
WHITE DRUG STORE
PRESCRIPTIONS FILLED BY EFFICIENT, EXPERIENCED PHARMACISTS

New Davidson Bulletin Will Appear This Week
Dr. Lingle Discusses Homecoming Day and Athletic Situation

The latest Davidson College Bulletin, under the title “Echoes of Homecoming Day,” is to come out the latter part of
this week. In this pamphlet, Dr. Lingle gives a very interesting review of Homecoming, the athletic situation, the Centennial Fund,
and other matters of interest to the school.

Whereas last year’s team was above average, he brings out the points that have handicapped this year’s team but that
the athletic tour is still proud of the team’s efforts. He notes that Davidson’s policy is to compete with other
teams in the area. The point is made in this pamphlet that such a policy would be futile for several
reasons.

Note is also given in this article of the success of the Centennial Fund to this point. Although the hoped-for
amount has not been raised, a substantial amount has been taken in. The fact is mentioned that former President W.J.
Martin has presented the college with a portrait of his father, the late Col. W.J. Martin, who was a professor
of chemistry from 1869 to 1890.

The bulletin is dedicated to the memory of Col. Martin.

Dr. Miller and Class to See Paper Printed
The newly-organized journalism class, under the leadership of Fred Smith, alumni secretary, will journey to Charlotte tonight to visit the
Charlotte Observer. They will arrive just as the paper is going to press. The students will watch the edition as
it is printed, folded, and prepared for delivery.

THACKER’S INCORPORATED
“A Good Place to Eat”
Opposite Johnson Bldg.
PRIVATE DINING ROOMS
FOR RESERVATIONS Phone 5490

Yep, You’re a Cosmopolitan Crowd
“Four Out of Five Come to Johnson’s”
JOHNSON’S BARBER SHOP
Everything a Barber Shop Can Do

---
