Page Four THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, SEPT. 22, 1937

DOWN THE SECEDERS

In spite of the loss to the Wolfpack Saturday, Coach McEver and his assistants are not at all disheartened over the showing of their cohorts. Faced by a far heavier aggregation, the Cats held their ground amazingly well and were outclassed only in the passing department. McEver is planning to work on defense against aerials during this week and to polish up the offense.

Dame Rumor was spread abroad the news about a week ago that Frank Purdy had lost another five pounds and would probably waste away to a shadow in a few days. However, that same shadow assumed tremendous proportions the other night as it stopped State cold on practically every attempt at the center of the line. Sturdy Frank and his “one hundred and forty-odd pounds” won the admiration of nearly five thousand people as he held a line averaging 196 and weighing 183.

Jinx? It seems that Memorial Stadium in Greensboro is rapidly becoming a jinx to the Wildcats. Last year in the opening game of the season Davidson played Duke almost to a standstill there, but the Blue Devils took advantage of a good punt return by Honey Hackney and a costly Cat fumble to score twice and win, 13-0. This year State eked out a victory by the narrowest of margins.

Some weeks back Jake Wade got Gene McEver to be his guest in The Charlotte Observer and Davidson students will be interested to know what they had to say about each other. McEver, speaking of the Davidson-State game: “I wish for Doc a batting average of .889 this fall—that is, I hope he will win all his games except that first one in Greensboro. And right here is the time to express my admiration and genuine esteem for this long, drawling, easy-going fellow whom I regard as one of the smartest football coaches I have ever known. Doc is O.K. in every respect, a real gentleman, and I’m for him all the time except for that hour or two he will be trying to beat the socks off Davidson.”

Doc Newton: “Gene McEver, I want you to know that I can say the same fine things about you that you had to say about me in the column you wrote a few days ago. You are tops with me, ole boy, and you have plenty on the ball.”

JOHNSON’S BARBER SHOP

ON THE STAGE 3:30—7:30—9:45

GIRLS!! GIRLS!! GIRLS!!

18—PEOPLE—18

Greenwich Village Gambols

Watch 'Em Go Saturday

Undaunted by their recent defeat at the hands of N. C. State, the Wildcat varsity lines up, ready to take on the Seceders from Erskine next Saturday on Richardson Field. The boys may seem to be letting grass grow under their feet here, but don’t be deceived—it’s only a pose. In the backfield are McClellan, Bolin, Dennis, and Lafferty, while in the line are (left to right) Nicholson, Graham, Hill, Purdy, Johnston, Goodman, and Williams. Richardson, Kenyon, and Johnson are in second and third reserves.

Erskine Squad Here Saturday

Cats May Be Minus Valuable Services of Williams And Warden

Next Saturday afternoon on Richardson Field at 2:30, the Wildcats will meet the Erskine Seceders. This will be the first time the two teams have met since 1930, the result of that game being a memorable 0-0 tie. 

The game Saturday will be the first taste of action for the Erskine squad this season. The Cake Race was won by Matthis, followed closely by other lettermen and members of the freshman squad. Matthis, a questionable starter, managed to come in twenty seconds ahead of the rest. The winners received cakes, as well as other prizes and merchandise.

Expert Workmanship Highest Quality

SOLES AND HEELS

O. C. BUFF

18 - People - 18

FREE TELEPHONE

On the Screen “You Can’t Beat Love” with PRESTON FOSTER and JOAN FONTAINE

Conference’s sixteen teams (including Virginia) swinging into action this week, the followers of football are in for an early season treat. Last Saturday fifteen thousand turned out at Greensboro to see the power-laden hosts of Doc Newton from N. C. State nose out a fighting band of Wildcats from Davidson, 6-2, in the only Southern Conference game of the week. Four other Conference teams tuned up with easy victories over smaller foes, while V. M. I.’s highly rated Flying Squadron met with unexpected opposition from the fighting Elon Christians and bowed out, 12-6. 

Friday V. M. I. takes on Pop Warner's powerful Temple team at Philadelphia, while the Citadel tackles Newberry. The big attraction Saturday is the game between the University of North Carolina and the highly rated South Carolina Gamecocks. The Tar Heels are rated right behind Duke in the pre-season dope, while Don McCallister’s boys showed such amazing drive and power in crushing Emory and Henry last week that they will enter the game on almost even terms with the Heels. The other Conference game finds Duke battling the Gobblers.

Keen interest is being shown in this game, as the fans are anxious to see what the Blue Devils have this year. A whale of a game is expected when the Flying Fleet of Erskine, South Carolina's surprise package eleven, collide with the Davidson Wildcats at Richardson Field. Other games include Richmond tackling Randolph-Macon, Virginia at Hampden-Sydney, and Washington and Lee at Wofford. The big game of the year finds Clemson throwing its forces against the Greenies of Tulane. Clemson last Saturday smothered Presbyterian, 46-0. Wake Forest will throw its forces against the mighty Vols of Tennessee, while William and Mary will play its traditional opening game with the Navy. Maryland will stay in its own back yard to tackle the men of St. John.

Newton Says Dumb Huddle Was Success

Used Old-Fashioned Huddle To Stall Saturday

William “Doc” Newton, the former Wildcat coach and inventor, announced the dumb huddle he invented, a success. Even though his charges changed to the conventional huddle at the half of the game with Davidson, Newton insists that his newest invention proved its worth in the fray Saturday night. Some of the spectators thought that Newton had changed his mind about using the deaf-and-dumb huddle-that-isn’t-a-huddle, but the lanky, poker-faced coach from Tennessee retorts with the statement that he was stalling for time.

“We were ahead, see,” he drawled. “Well, when a team's ahead, what does it do? It kills time, doesn’t it? Sure. So we used the old-fashioned huddle, which is a lot slower than my system, to kill time and stall.”

Under the new system, a metal gadget similar to a baseball umpire’s indicator is used to call signals. After the teams line up, the indicator is set by the left wingback. Then the tailback shows it to the two remaining backs and the linemen. The advantage of this system is that it speeds up the game considerably, and it keeps the opposing team’s scouts from decoding their plays and signals.

Doc seemed very pleased at the alertness that his charges displayed in Saturday night's battle. He pointed out that his boys recovered all the fumbles in the game. Newton, in reference tothe new type signals, added, “We'll be deaf and dumb a week from Saturday when we play the University of North Carolina here. I imagine we'll be deaf and dumb the whole game, because it'll be a miracle if we ever go into the lead.”

Football Schedule
Sept. 25—Erskine at Davidson.
Oct. 2—Duke at Davidson.
Oct. 9—V.M.I. at Lexington.
Oct. 16—S. Carolina at Columbia.
Oct. 23—Centre at Danville, Ky.
Oct. 30—Furman at Davidson.
Nov. 6—N. C. at Davidson. (x)
Nov. 13—Harvard at Cambridge.
Nov. 25—W. Forest at Charlotte.

(x)—Homecoming Game.

Davidson Highs Expect Winner
Coach Fort Depending On Eight Winners

With eight regulars from last year’s team back, Davidson High is looking forward to what is expected to be a very successful season. Practice under Head Coach Leonard Fort and his assistant, Bobby Blue, has been going on for about a week. At present, the biggest trouble seems to be the lack of competent reserves. The loss of Maurice Hamrick, a promising guard, who went out with a broken arm, will be sorely felt. Fort and Fidler, as ends, and either Washam or Farrington seem to be headed for a brilliant season. At tackle, two big boys, Marion Cole and Ed Erwin, seem to have the inside track. The guards are questionable, with Church and Gwynn probably getting the call, while Beadle and Fulcher will battle it out for the center post. In the backfield, Bill Wood is back at the quarterback post, while Gibson and R. Keener are back at the halves. Mike Gant, a husky newcomer, seems to have the makings of a fine fullback. Bud Brothersford will make a strong bid for one of the halfback jobs.

William T. Busby

WELCOME
Faculty - - - Student Body
College Pharmacy
HUGH F. SAPP, Mgr.
JAMES T. HOUGH

N. C. State Wolfpack Noses Out Davidson In Exciting Contest

Doc Newton’s Powerful State Eleven, Led By Rooney, Berlinski, and Tatum, Edge ’Cats, 6-2; Davidson Leads In Number of First Downs

History repeated itself in the wrong way, when the North Carolina State Wolfpack turned back the Davidson Wildcats 6-2, before a record crowd in Memorial Stadium at Greensboro, last Saturday night. Taking advantage of several breaks, the Wolfpack crossed the pay line in the second quarter for the only touchdown of the evening, giving the State boys, headed by former Davidson coach William “Doc” Newton, the first victory in the new “natural” rivalry between the two schools. The ‘Cats, however, came back strong during the same period and with the aid of a Wolf error, swamped the Pack back of their goal line for a safety, ending the scoring for the evening.

Newton presented a fine array of talent, credited by many to be the best in recent years, including Rooney and Berlinski in the backfield and Tatum in the line. This, however, made little difference to the outweighed 'Cat line, who stopped every onrush the Wolves could offer. The Wolves scored first on a pass from Rooney to Tatum, after Lafferty fumbled the oval when he was tackled, and Berlinski recovered for State. Several line plays and a pass put them on the 'Cat three-yard stripe, after Marks had made a bad pass from center which lost 22 yards. On the next play, Rooney tossed the fatal pass to Tatum for the score.

After the next kickoff, Lafferty punted to the Wolf 28-yard line, where Marks made his second miscue of the evening by passing high over Rooney's head into the Wolf end zone. Murray of State fell on the ball but the whole ’Cat line swamped him before he could get it out, giving Davidson a safety for their only score of the contest.

Aided by several breaks throughout the game, the Wolves drove deep into Davidson territory several times during the game, but when they threatened, the 'Cat line bolstered and staved them off. For Davidson, Lafferty played his usual brilliant game of punting, passing, and running. He carried the ball practically six out of every seven plays, playing every minute of the game. In the line, the bulwark of defense was little Frank Purdy, a 140-pound center. Captain Williams, until he was injured, Graham, Goodman, Iverson, and Hill played their usual good game.

State's Rooney and Berlinski in the backfield, aided by Tatum, Conrad, and Hines in the line, showed unusual power. A record crowd of 15,000 attended the game which marked the beginning of the Newton-McEver rivalry.

Harriers Face Duke

The varsity cross country team, under the leadership of Coach Pete Whittle, began practice Monday for the current season. A number of men answered the call and reported to Coach Whittle, hoping to cinch a berth on this year’s team. The Wildcats open the season on October 2, meeting the Duke team then. On the squad taking the 5-mile course this year will be: “Boo” Walker, Woodward, Telford, Parcell, D. Gammon, J. Gammon, Johnny Wilson, Hickman, and Kellog.

He—Darling, you're just like an electric iron.
She—How’s that?
He—A little warming up and then the pressing begins.

JOHNSON’S BARBER SHOP

Pi Kappa Phi

Pres. Wilson should set the style pace in suits for fall with...

College Men Should and Will Wear the British Lounge Models with...
* Broad Shoulders
* Full Chest
* Lower Collar
* Longer Coat
* Wider Lapels

FABRICS will be...
* Herringbones
* Sharkskins

COLORS will be...
* Grey and Blue
* Brown
* Subtle Green

JOHNSON’S BARBER SHOP

INVISIBLE RE-WEAVING SERVICE

Pharmacist William H. Davis
501 INDEPENDENCE BLDG.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

A. S. BROWN
GENERAL MERCHANDISE

PARAGON DRESS SHIRTS
ENDICOTT ARMY SHOES
TELEPHONE NO. 7

For Your Entire Wardrobe... Good Printing Pays

CHARLOTTE, N. C.
FAUL & CRYMES, Inc.
- - Sporting Goods - -
415 South Tryon St.
Charlotte, N. C.

Good Profits - Printing Indifferently done usually advertises a concern as one of the kind which does not consider the importance of the Quality of its Product.

TYPEWRITER LETTERS - VOICES - ENCLOSURES, ETC.
BILL HEADS
BLOTTERS
LETTER HEADS
ENVELOPES

printing on the same high standard as your goods.

Call us 3-5727

STANDARD PRINTING CO.
117 Garland Court, Charlotte, N. C.

Visit MARION DAVIDSON DAVIS CO. Barber Shop

S. Tryon Street

TODAY’S POPULAR SPORT BOWLING!

On Saturday Nights—or any other night—take her out to bowl. She’ll like that! Take her where she’ll feel at home, THE HEALTH CENTER 12114 South Tryon

THE CHARLOTTE BOWLING CENTER 112 W. First St.