WEDNESDAY, NOV. 17, 1938. THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Five

Band Plays at Harvard; Davidson’s Soccer Team Renders Southern Songs Longest Distance Ever Traveled by a Band to Play at Harvard Game

Spanish Group Holds Meeting Plans Made For a More Active Program

Sigma Upsilon Literary Fraternity To Hold Third Meeting

Since a band has ever traveled to play at a Harvard football game, the Davidson College football band played in the rain between the halves of the Davidson-Harvard game. The band left Davidson at noon last Thursday in buses to make the 1,200-mile trip to Cambridge, Mass., and arrived in Cambridge early Saturday morning.

The cotton-picking feature which Director Pfohl presented at the Davidson-Furman football game on Winthrop Day was presented again at Harvard. Jack and “Sleepy” each member in turn again had a chance to demonstrate how cotton is picked down South. The band rendered the selections “Dixie” and “Old Black Joe” while the cotton-picking number was going on. The band then presented their “Blue Danube” goose step number which was presented at Davidson between the halves of the Davidson-Carolina game on Homecoming Day.

The Harvard football band then formed an enormous “H” and played Harvard’s alma mater. During the program “O Davidson” also was played.

The Harvard football band consisting of one hundred pieces, played a part in the musical program and spelled out “We Are Wet” to the 3,000 wet fans viewing the game.

The band stopped off to give a concert Monday night at Mary Baldwin College on the return trip and did not return to Davidson till last night.

Sigma Delta Pi, national honor Spanish fraternity, held a joint meeting with the Spanish Club. Plans were laid for a more active campus organization and also making the organization more thoroughly Spanish. Much supplementary classroom work is also to be added to its program. High spot of the meeting was a contest to see which member could locate the most cities on a blank map of Spain. This contest was won by Jack Holland, and several prizes were given to the winners.

To be eligible for membership in Sigma Delta Pi, a man must have had at least three semesters of Spanish after his freshman year. Any man having one semester of Spanish to his credit is eligible for the Spanish Club.

Officers for the organization are A. O. Shelby, president; Euclid Fant, vice president; Pete McKnight, secretary.

Pictured above is Davidson's soccer team which met Duke here Nov. 11. Left to right, first row: Hulen Farrior, Vinson, Cochran, Armstrong, J. Wilson; second row: Davidson, Wetmore, Kellam, A. V. Goldier, and Frazer Hood; third row: Crane, Myers, Torrey, Laskowski, McFadyen, and Hi Herrera.

Beta Theta Pi—Brothers Abbott and Pegram journeyed to Greensboro for the weekend. Cue Ball Irwin spent the weekend at home in Charlotte. Most of the brothers journeyed to Charlotte where they enjoyed dates over the weekend. Brothers Squires, Mock, and Gamble spent the weekend with the college band on their trip to Cambridge. The usual feed was held on Sunday night. Brother Charlie Smith went to Coker College in South Carolina. Brothers Faison, Williams, and Nicholson found themselves at Cambridge, Mass. for the game with Harvard. Brother Fuller went to Lumberton. Jacobs requested that it be made known that he spent a quiet weekend on the campus. The whereabouts of Brother Miller were unknown to the chapter.

Pi Kappa Alpha—Brother Parker spent the weekend at his home in High Point. Jim Anderson journeyed to Athens, Ga., to see the Tulane-Georgia game. Stitt Robinson went to his home in Matthews for the weekend. Augie Spoon was off to Greensboro. Brothers Ingram, Raynal, Scott, Shelton, Wallen, and Youngblood were visiting in Statesville on Saturday. Chum Horton traveled home to Albemarle for the weekend. Mr. and Mrs. Allison of Charlotte visited the chapter on Sunday. Bill Perdew of Wilmington was pledged by the chapter last week. Brothers Pittman, Hunter, and Glenn and Pledge Brother Scott attended the Carolina-Duke classic in Durham. Pledge Brothers Scott and Hill Cooper visited at home and also points in the eastern part of the state. Brother Marchant went to Greenville and Columbia. Pledge Brothers Cauble, McLean, and Bahnson went to Winston-Salem and took along Brother Mark Cauble.

Kappa Sigma—Brothers Sloan and Harrison went to Knoxville for the weekend. They regret to say that Brother Matthis is in Presbyterian Hospital in Charlotte this week, undergoing an operation on an old knee injury.

Sigma Upsilon—The Alpha chapter of Sigma Pi Sigma, the national Physics fraternity, held its meeting Monday night, November 15. The chapter had as speaker Mr. T. E. Lothery, instructor in Physics here at Davidson. Mr. Lothery's talk concerned the theory of lenses, exposure, and development. He showed that the commercial film has a large latitude, which allows the amateur to take photographs in varied lights without the use of a light meter. He ended his address by explaining that the real aim of photography is contrast. After his talk, he showed portraits and scenes of his own work, which illustrated the principles he explained in his address.

Weary Wildcats Return From the Frozen North By MELVIN MEANS

After much pursuing your correspondent finally succeeded in cornering a number of very tired and weary Wildcats for an interview. At first they were unable to answer any of the million questions shot at them as they were still swaying from the effects of the long bus ride. They managed to let a few words escape through their numb lips. One thing they all agreed on was the weather—the cold rain, which swept across the field driven by a wind from the ocean of almost hurricane force had somewhat dimmed their memories of Boston. The only thing any of them seemed to remember with any degree of accuracy was some kind of a show tucked away on a back street.

French Club—About nine o'clock Saturday morning, a car pulled up in front of the American Cafe and ground to a stop. A man, two women, and two children got out and proceeded into the restaurant. Very quietly they took their seats and ordered their breakfasts from Major Clark, who was working at that early hour.Pledge that of voting hour. Sigma Pi Slane. After his graduation, Brother King went to Columbia. Brother Haywood Hill made the trip to Harvard with the team. While on the Harvard trip with the football team last weekend, the chapter enjoyed the regular Sunday evening feed. Brother Anderson, number 1 last year, spent Sunday with old friends in New York City. Brother Abell reports that Brother Anderson sends greetings to “all the boys.” Owen Cooke spent the weekend at his home in Greensboro. Gene Garner, George Jones, Hewes Varish, and Winston Taylor traveled to Durham to see the Carolina-Duke game. Bill Bolin went to Knoxville to attend the Tennessee-Vanderbilt game, and Cage Brewer spent the weekend in Greenville, S.C. Tommy Harrisberger made a trip to Cambridge, MA to see the game with Harvard. Jim Dorr and Brother Perrin took part in the Carolina-Duke game.

The ARTeHAl secretary of Sigma Pi Sigma has notified the chapter that New York University has been granted a chapter of the fraternity. A chapter will soon be installed at the University of Pittsburgh, bringing the number of chapters to a total of 33.

Phi Gams Top Frats (Continued from Page 4)
The S.A.E. team was defeated by the tune of 6-0. Sam Hemphill, after fading to the right, tossed a pass to Ken Lawson on the other side of the line for the score.

Sophs In Win (Continued from Page 4)
The Sophomores have been a success in the intramural program this year. The participants have enjoyed playing the game and are looking forward to playing next year.

To maintain its football squad on its present basis, Carnegie Tech will have to offer four times as many athletic scholarships for 1941 as were available this year.

A sociologist at Indiana University hired “a well-known expert in the trade” to tell him about the “trade.” Then he compiled a lexicon of terms in underworld jargon for the several branches of thievery.

Today and Thursday
Thrills, Chills, & Drama Galore

YOUR DRUG STORE
DAVIDSON BARBER SHOP

HENDERSON JEWELRY SHOP
WATCH AND JEWELRY REPAIRING
NOW IN KNOX BUILDING

To The LADIES OF DAVIDSON
We Make Loveliness Lovelier...
MAYFLOWER BEAUTY SHOP
Mooresville Phone 184

REMINGTON RAND TYPEWRITERS
WHITE DRUG STORE
DAVIDSON, N.C.

FRI. and SAT.
On Our Stage
DAN FITCHE’S BIG APPLE REVUE
A Stage Show That Is Different...

“DAVIDSON’S OLDEST AND BEST”
BROADWAY AIDS TO BEAUTY
HOME DRUG NEEDS
COLLEGE PHARMACY
“DAVIDSON’S SERVICE DRUG STORE”

Steels Have Collections of Rare Hawaiian Shells
Army Officer’s Family Begins Fascinating Hobby on Island of Oahu

What’s your hobby? For most, it’s a question of collecting something. The Steels’ collection of shells was gathered over a short period of one month, and in this time they collected about 100 varieties of these shells. These shells are the abodes of snails over a period of their life and are found in the trees of any forest above a sea level of about 1500 feet. These shells are not easy to find, for often they are hidden in a cluster of leaves in the top of a tree, and the hunter...

(Continued on Page 6)

HAVE SHAMPOO HAIR CUTS
NORTON’S Barber Shop

PALMERS’ Optometrists
EYE-SIGHT SPECIALISTS
DR. JAMES L. PALMER
302 North Tryon Street
Charlotte, N.C.

CAROLINA THEATRE
Mooresville, N.C.
Thur.-Fri. Nov. 18-19
“Exclusive”
and
“Make A Wish”
Bobby Breen

You Push It
Cars For Rent
M.P. Henderson
Gulf Gas & Oil