Fraternities Pledge Nearly Fifty Percent Of Freshman Class

AL-ENDA UB! ORTA

The Davidsonian

LUX LIBERTAS

Student Directory Found on Page Three

VOL. XXV DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., SEPTEMBER 22, 1937 NO.6

Lafferty Appointed Major of Battalion; Wicker Is Adjutant

Kiesewetter, Pharr, and Theiling Named to Complete Battalion Staff

HELMS IS BAND CAPTAIN

Wilson, McLean, Crisp, and Holt Are Captains

Martin L. “Teeny” Lafferty has been appointed Cadet Major and Battalion Commander of the Davidson College R. O. T. C. Corps, Major J. L. Ballard, Adjutant of the local post, announced last week. Thirty-eight other senior R. O. T. C. men received appointments ranking from cadet captain to cadet second lieutenant. All of these men spent six weeks this summer at Fort McClelland in Anniston, Ala., undergoing special training to prepare themselves for commanding positions.

Cadet captains assigned to the battalion staff are W. M. Wicker, adjutant; W. B. Kiesewetter, personnel adjutant; W. S. Pharr, plans and training officer; R. H. Theiling, Jr., supply officer, and J. W. Helms, band leader.

Other appointments and assignments are as follows:

Company “A” Cadet Captain, James Y. Wilson, commanding; cadet first lieutenants: Rufus M. Wallace, second in command; Fielding E. Clark, Euclid T. Fant, Jr., Bruce I. Parcell; cadet second lieutenants: William W. Lowrance, Fred W. Dennis, Sam A. Cothran.

Company “B” Cadet Captain, Alexander T. McLean, Jr., commanding; cadet first lieutenants: Anthony O. Shelby, second in command, John N. Smith, Gene B. Ganier, Henry L. Harkey; cadet second lieutenants: Spencer B. Goodman, Joseph G. Gamble.

Company “C” Cadet Captain, Milton Crisp, Jr., commanding; cadet first lieutenants: William T. Manson, Jr., second in command, Arthur O. Spoon, Charles R. Moore, Idzard J. Tinga; cadet second lieutenants: Elie J. Ganier, Allie C. Adams.

Company “D” Cadet Captain, James E. Holt, commanding; cadet first lieutenants: Hugh H. McFadyen, second in command, James K. Dorsett, William O. Cooke, Francis L. Fort; cadet second lieutenants: Richard M. King, Jr., Samuel G. Lowe, Jr.

The Band Cadet first lieutenants: W. Palmer, Jr., Thomas B. Neill, Gilbert Daniel, H. McGeachy, Jr.

Kiesewetter Is To Announce Athletic Events During Year

Bill Kiesewetter has been selected by the Athletic Department to be sports announcer at Davidson athletic contests this year, Norman Shepard, Director of Athletics, announced recently. After a series of tryouts last spring in which a number of students competed, Kiesewetter was finally chosen as the candidate most capable of filling the position. Besides football games this fall, he will announce track meets in the spring, and other sports events. He has already served at one game, the Davidson-N. C. State contest in Greensboro last Saturday night.

Besides his new office, Kiesewetter holds many other positions of prominence on the campus. He is judge of the Court of Control, and, in addition to serving on the Y. M. C. A. cabinet, is a member of Phi Gamma Delta, International Relations Club, Alpha Phi Epsilon, and Sigma Upsilon.

The engagement of Miss Dorothy Johnston to C. C. “Bill” Quick, '37, was announced last month. Quick was captain of the basketball team here two years and of the baseball team last spring. The ceremony will be performed late in the fall.

COUNCIL HEAD

Monroe Wicker, President of the Honorary Fraternity Council for the coming scholastic session.

Wicker Heads Honor Groups

The Honorary Fraternity Council for 1937-38, headed by Monroe Wicker as president, held its first meeting Monday afternoon and made arrangements for meetings for the coming season. Other officers beside Wicker include Sam Cothran, vice-president, and John Graham, secretary and treasurer.

Representatives on the Council and their organizations are Jim Dorsett, International Relations Club; Mae Covington, Alpha Psi Omega; Haywood Hill, Alpha Phi Epsilon and “Y” Cabinet; Wade Barrow, Sigma Upsilon, Red and Black Masquers, and O. D. K.; Marion Bryant, Gamma Sigma Epsilon; Martin Lafferty, Scabbard & Blade and Sigma Pi Sigma; A. O. Shelby, Sigma Delta Pi; Henry Harkey, Philanthropic Literary Society; Richard Vowles, Eumenean Literary Society; Leonard Fort, Sigma Delta Psi; John Graham, Alpha Epsilon Delta; Sam Cothran, Le Cercle Francais; Monroe Wicker, Delta Phi Alpha; and Andy Wilkerson, Ministerial Band. Yet, the representative from Phi Beta Kappa has not been chosen. Eta Sigma Phi, honorary Classical fraternity for students of Latin and Greek, has been abolished this year by the Council.

Faculty Take Varied Trips

Professor Lilly Caught in Shanghai Fighting

Many of Davidson's faculty passed away the summer months traveling here and there over the United States and foreign lands. Others pushed forward in their work towards degrees, or other scholastic accomplishments while about a dozen remained in Davidson to teach in the college summer school.

Prof. H. T. Lilly of the English department probably can lay claim to the most exciting adventure of the vacation period. Prof. Lilly was among the American citizens trapped in Shanghai during the first few days of the present Sino-Japanese conflict. Prof. Lilly's only words about his war episode were, “I'm glad I was there and I’m glad to be back.” During his tour of the Orient he visited Japan, Korea, China, and Manchukuo.

Dr. G. B. Watts of the French department, led a tour known as “the beaten path” over seven European countries. The tour lasted for forty-seven days and was sponsored by the Commonwealth Tours Inc.

Speakers For Opening Term Are Selected

Sacred Concerts to Be Presented on October 31 And December 12

DR. E. W. SMITH TO SPEAK

Other Outstanding Speakers Are Secured

Outstanding men in religion from all over the country have been engaged by the college administration to conduct the Sunday vesper services until Christmas vacation. Besides preaching services, there will also be two musical concerts at the vesper hour, one on October 31 and the other December 12, the Sunday before the Christmas holidays.

Among the preachers are Dr. Egbert W. Smith of Nashville, executive secretary of the Presbyterian Church in the U. S.; Dr. J. R. Cunningham of Winston-Salem, formerly professor at the Louisville Theological Seminary; Dr. W. L. Thompson of Richmond, professor at Union Seminary; and Dr. Kenneth J. Foreman of Davidson.

A complete schedule follows: Dr. Charles F. Myers of Greensboro—Sept. 26; the Rev. E. L. Alexander of Lumberton—Oct. 3; Dr. W. L. Thompson of Columbia—Oct. 10; Dr. Foreman—Oct. 17; Dr. Egbert W. Smith of Nashville—Oct. 24; sacred concert—Oct. 31; Dr. W. L. Thompson of Richmond—Nov. 7; Dr. J. R. Cunningham of Winston-Salem—Nov. 14; the Rev. James A. Jones of Henderson—Nov. 21; Dr. A. S. Johnson of Charlotte—Nov. 28; Dr. John McSween of Chester, S. C.—Dec. 5; sacred concert—Dec. 12.

Four Cheerleaders Are Chosen Friday By Upperclassmen

Boyd, Elmore, Gish, and Taylor Help Holt

Last Friday in chapel, the three upper classes elected Bill Boyd, Nesbitt Elmore, John Gish, and Dick Taylor as Junior Cheerleaders. These men will assist Latimer Holt, Varsity Cheerleader, in leading the cheerings and pep meetings this fall. Other candidates for the cheerleader posts were Wesley Coggins and John Shaw, who were eliminated on the first ballot Thursday, and Dick Latimer, who was eliminated on the final ballot.

Holt held a pep meeting on Wednesday night at the gym for the main reason of trying out all the candidates for the Junior Cheerleader posts. Both freshmen and upperclassmen attended. A great amount of spirit has been exhibited at these meetings and it is expected that there will be many more successful ones this fall with these cheerleaders at our head.

Prof. E. A. Beaty of the Language department, left just before the close of school last spring for a visit to Italy in order to acquaint himself more fully with the language of that country. He also visited other parts of the European continent.

Prof. F. L. Blythe, Spanish Professor, studied for six weeks at the Middlebury School of Spanish in Vermont. Many of the local faculty spent parts of the summer at Montreat, N. C. Among them were Dr. K. J. Foreman, Dr. C. M. Richards, Dr. P. H. Gwynn, Dr. W. L. Lingle, and Dr. W. L. Porter.On Dancing Dr. Moore, ’08 Heads Alumni Sunday Night

HEADS ALUMNI

For This Year Charlotte Physician Succeeds W. B. Thomas, ’10, of Pittsburgh

MEETING HELD JUNE 7

Reunion Is Largest in College History

Dr. Oren Moore, ‘08, prominent Charlotte physician, was elected president of the general alumni association at the annual meeting held here last June. Dr. Moore, a staunch supporter of Davidson, has been a loyal alumnus since his graduation. The alumni luncheon was held in the banquet hall at 1:00 o'clock, followed by the meeting immediately after. (Continued on Page 6)

Further Pan-Hellenic Council Works To Effect Compromise

The Pan-Hellenic Council has been working all summer and is still working to reach some agreement with the faculty on the present dance situation. The current dance regulations originated from certain actions and decisions voted by the administration. Listed in the letter were the following articles: No Bowery or costume ball. No individual fraternity shall have more than one dance or house party in any session. Arrowsmith stated that the Council had petitioned the faculty and indications were that some compromise might be made which would be more equitable than the present situation. (Continued on Page 6)

Davidsonian To Use New Headline Type

Beginning with this issue, The Davidsonian will top its stories with entirely new and different type from the style used for the past few years by its editors. With the cooperation of its printers, The Standard Printing Company of Charlotte, the paper has made a considerable investment in type which it is hoped will improve its general appearance. Dr. Ralph Nafziger of the National Scholastic Press Association advised the change to meet collegiate competition.

One Hundred and Twenty Accept Fraternity Bids At Close of Rush Week

ARCH TO BE ERECTED

Nine Fraternities Pledge Slightly Larger Number of Men This Season

WEEK ENDED TUESDAY

Rushing Only Extended Over Nine-Day Period

One hundred and twenty-three men were pledged by the local chapters of nine national Greek letter fraternities as the formal rushing period was brought to a close last night. Last night ended one of the most active and competitive periods of rushing on the campus. For nine days beginning last Monday, fraternities have looked over prospective pledges and the freshmen have judged the various fraternities. The Pan-Hellenic Council has supervised rushing this year and several new innovations were effected, limiting hours for rushing and the amount of money to be spent, which have been successful. The following members of the student body were pledged by the respective societies:

BETA THETA PI (Phi Alpha Chapter)
K. F. Balsley, Reidsville; R. W. Barnwell, Burlington; W. H. Barnwell, Burlington; R. B. Eller, Charlotte; I. I. Garron, Valdese; J. H. Kernersville; J. H. McLeod, Charlotte; J. Mock, Winston-Salem; N. C. Schitt, Charlotte; G. Sharpe, Burlington; W. Summerville, Charlotte.

Above is a picture of the Davidson Arch, which was erected in 1906 in honor of General William Lee Davidson. The bricks from this arch are to be removed from Guilford Battleground National Military Park to the campus here, and the arch will be re-erected.

Mrs. A. B. Robson Resigns As Infirmary Supervisor

Mrs. Irving Johnston Will Be Successor

On August 10th, Mrs. A. B. Robson resigned from her post as College Nurse, a position she has filled so faithfully for 20 years. She has been succeeded by Mrs. Irving Johnston of Davidson.

Mrs. Robson came to Davidson from Virginia with her two children and has worked her entire time at the infirmary, which now stands as a testament to her dedication.

Watson Street Makes Best Average

Senior scholarship averages, recently announced, show Watson Street leading his class with a rating of 3.150. Street, having averaged 3.000, is presented the Algernon Sydney Sullivan Award for unselfish service.

Dr. Donald G. Barnhouse To Lead ‘Y’ Fall Services

Dr. Donald G. Barnhouse, pastor of the Tenth Presbyterian Church in Philadelphia, will come to Davidson to conduct the annual fall services sponsored by the YMCA. Secretary Fitzhugh Dade announced that the services are held very early this year because it was the only time Dr. Barnhouse could be secured. He will speak twice a day from Tuesday, October 5, to Friday, October 8, once each morning at the chapel period and once each evening at 7 o'clock. Dr. Barnhouse last year conducted a series of talks for the First Presbyterian Church of Charlotte. During this series, he was invited to speak at chapel exercises here and made an unusually fine impression on the student body. (Continued on Page 8)