Page Four THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, SEPT. 29, 1937

WE TOOK ERSKINE; DUKE’S NEXT

SPORTS AFIELD

BEAT THOSE BLUE DEVILS, ’CATS

However, to take any credit away from Lafferty (for he undoubtedly ranks among the greatest backs in the nation) we
suggest that more than cursory (or cursing) notice be taken of the first half. Davidson started the game seemingly over-confident
and the offense failed to click for the simple reason that there were no holes for the ball-carriers. In the
second period after Lafferty was taken out, the Cats were not demoralized, incapacitated, or anything of the sort and probably
would not have been scored upon save for two costly fumbles by an inexperienced man, one of which was not
his fault.

A week or so ago Mark Hellinger, nationally known sports writer, said in his column in the Washington Herald, this
ef- fect: “The season's greatest upset — Davidson over Duke. Don’t say we didn’t warn you.”

Frampton, Reinhardt, Kenney, Hunter, and Tenney Among Favorites in Tourney

The purpose of sizing up the team is to take place as soon as the courts are repaired and put
in shape. According to Laytenberger, the work will be hard on last year's team. This year’s Tennis Meet Starts On
Improved Courts. The ball is back and will be trying to get on the team. The team members are: Frampton,
Kenney, Tenney. Up also will give accounts of themselves. Promising Contenders Jones and White are expected to be in positions,
the sophomores looking good in recent practice. In addition to the men there will be a tournament. The final state
of dark horses is unknown. The tourney will be an open affair, and it is hoped a frosh tournament can
be arranged before bad weather sets in. Some of the candidates for the tournament are planning to attend the meet
to be held at Presbyterian College on October 18, 19, and 20.

Seniors, Yates; Brown co-eds Seniors, Frosh Begin Intra-Mural Sports

Intra-mural football will get under way this week. Whittle, intra-mural manager, announced that class managers are Yates, Sample, Faison, and
Freshmen. Class managers have been selected by respective class presidents, who will appoint a captain for each team. Sophomores, University
of Wyoming were exposed to a grade when they became ill with the flu.

ABSORB THE SHOCK OF EVERY STEP

Shoes for Men

Enjoy the shock-absorbing qualities of these springy crepe soles and heels. Ask to see “The Broad-Low” of rich Brown Norse
calf — the shoe with the cushioning qualities of a Panther’s Paw. Made to absorb the jolt and jar of
every step.

J. O. JONES, Inc. 210 South Tryon St.

Touch Proves More Popular Than Tag Ball

Students Desire Change

Touch Football

The biggest changes in the intra-mural rules this year have to do with touch football and eligibility. Last year tag
football was played in place of touch football, but this proved unpopular in many ways. It was decided by the
Intra-mural Athletic Committee to do away with it this year, and adopt in its place the more popular and widely-played
touch football. In tag football only one hand was necessary for a defensive player to bring the ball carrier to
a stop. In touch football a touch occurs only when an opponent touches the ball carrier with both of his
hands simultaneously, and no part of his body, except his feet, shall be in contact with the ground throughout the
touch. This rule was declared in order to speed up the game, and to eliminate continual forward passing, as is
the case in tag football.

Block Rule Changed

The rule for blocking was slightly changed. The “Blocking shall be permitted on the line of scrimmage as in regulation
football. In the open, no part of the blocker’s body, except his feet, shall be in contact with the ground.”
This year in case of tie games, the team having the most first downs shall be declared the winner. The
outstanding change in the eligibility rules for the coming year has to do with students who have made their freshman
numeral. Starting this year a student who has received a freshman numeral may not compete on a team in that
particular sport until after one year of non-participation in that intra-mural sport. It is hoped that these decisions will do
a great deal to further the intra-mural program.

Tryouts For Cross Country Team Held

Tryouts for the Davidson varsity cross country team were held Tuesday, Sept. 28. There were approximately fourteen men who tramped
the muddy road on try-out day. Coach Whittle has arranged the first match with Duke. It is to be held
at Davidson the morning of the Duke-Davidson football game. The length of this race has been shortened from the customary
five miles to three and a half miles because it is the first meet of the year and naturally the
boys are not in first class shape as yet. The squad is composed of the following members: Dave Woodward, Bob
Kellogg, Bill Telford, Dick Gammon, Joe Gammon, J. R. Patterson, Dan Gilliam, Bob King, Bill Hickman, Tom Abbott, and Wilson
Walker, Bruce Parcell.

More than 100 Georgetown University students were used last spring as human guinea pigs in a test of the personality-changing
effects of the drug, benzedrine sulphate.

FAUL & CRYMES, Inc. - - Sporting Goods - - Charlotte, N. C. 415 South Tryon St.

Cars For Rent M. P. Henderson Gulf Gas & Oil

STALWART GUARD

Bill Johnston assumes a characteristic pose above, as if in readiness to hit that enemy line. He gave one of
the best performances on the field in the Erskine game, playing guard on offense and tackle on defense. A junior
this year, he hails from Leesburg, Fla., and gives promise of a fine year.

Frosh Footballers Hope For Best Team in Years

High School and Prep Stars Will Stud the Yearling Eleven

With their eyes on the season's opener Friday week against the V. P. I. freshmen, Coach Shepard's frosh team began
their third week of practice Monday.

Athletic Frat Holds Tryouts

Fall tryouts for Delta Sigma Psi, national athletic fraternity, will begin the week of October 11. Upperclassmen as well as
freshmen are eligible for tryouts. No bid isyears. From end to end with high school and prep stars, the freshman
squad seems to have everything—finesse, power, and weight. At end, Julius Kinard of Barium and John Johnson of Johnson City,
Tenn., are outstanding. Bill Sigmon of Lincolnton and Paul Lady of Concord are running at the first string tackle posts,
with Dick Arnold of Greenville, S.C., and John Donaldson of Barium at guards. Bill Snelling of Athens, Ga., has the
center position well in hand.

Backs Look Good
There are six outstanding backs: Jim Hemphill of Marion, Granville Sharpe of Burlington, Jim Wallin of Chattanooga (also an end),
Bob Johnson of Johnson City, Tenn., Joe Moore, and Jib Bolin. In addition to those mentioned, there are several likely
looking prospects.

The Schedule
Oct. 8, Blacksburg, Va.; Oct. 22, Duke frosh at High Point; Oct. 29, Davidson; Nov. 11, Blue Ridge at Hendersonville;
Nov. 20, Wofford frosh at Davidson.

INVISIBLE RE-WEAVING SERVICE
INDEPENDENCE BLDG.
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

BUFF SHOE SHOP
501 SHERRARD RICE
Campus Representative

On Saturday Nights—or any other night—take her out to bowl. She'll like that! Take her where she’ll feel at home.

THE HEALTH CENTER
12114 South Tryon

TODAY’S POPULAR SPORT
BOWLING!
THE CHARLOTTE BOWLING CENTER
112 W. First St.

Membership is based upon the passage of certain tests prescribed by the national office. This year, tryouts are being held
in the spring as well as in the fall, and a person may get off at least part and possibly
all of the 13 events in one year. When a test is once passed, it does not have to be
taken at any other time. Upon the completion of all events, a person is admitted into membership. Last year, nearly
one hundred men tried out, of whom twelve completed all events. Many others passed part of theirs and are looking
forward to winning their keys during the term.

History students at Mount Holyoke College have written a prophecy about whither we are drifting, to be sealed up for
a hundred years.

FOR THE BEST IN HAIRCUTS - - TRY - -
DAVIDSON Barber Shop

Wallace Wade Brings One of Nation’s Top-Notch Elevens To Wildcat Lair; McEver Primes Davidson For Clash
Powerful Blue Devil Team Battles Cats On Richardson Field
By E. T. BAKER
Sports Editor, Duke Chronicle

Wallace Wade, now entering upon his seventh year as football coach and director of athletics at Duke University, faces the
most strenuous schedule in Duke's history, handicapped by the absence of six regular members of his championship 1936 eleven, including
the great Ace Parker. In addition to Parker, “Stumpy” Gardner, one of the Conference’s finest backs of last fall, is
gone from the backfield. Both ends, Dick Taliaferro and Frankie Liana, were lost as were Moe Power, big guard, and
Joe Cardwell, all-Conference tackle. Bill Bailey, reserve end, is out of the game because of an early practice injury, and
Bob Haas, towering alternate tackle, did not report for practice. Johnny Johnson, speed merchant halfback, graduated, and young Walter Spyre,
star frosh back of last year, is ineligible. Thus, Wade is forced to find new men for six positions on
the first team and build up an almost entirely new reserve eleven.

Dan Hill Returns
As a nucleus about which to build, Wade has Fred Badgett, Bob Gantt, and Fred Yorke, three guards of experience,
and Dan Hill, sophomore center of last year, in the center of the line. Captain Woody Lipscomb has been shifted
to tackle to pair with Joe Alabaster. Herb Hudgins and Mouse Edwards have been shifted from the backfield and center
to the end position and have apparently the inside track on the starting positions. Sally and Carpenter are also in
the running.

Behind the line, Wade is better equipped. Despite the loss of Parker, the Duke All-American mentor can place an experienced
quartet on the field and be sure of reserve strength as well. Elmore Hackney, the Durham flash, heads the parade
as he winds up a brilliant career for the Blue Devils. Eric Tipton, something of a sensation in his sophomore
year, is being groomed to take Parker's place. Bob O'Mara is the plunging back and Bob Spangler will succeed Gardner
as blocking back. Hackney will call the plays.

Intra-Mural Rules
“A student who has received a varsity award shall not be eligible to compete in that particular sport until one
school year of non-participation in that intra-mural sport. Members of a freshman squad who participated in a freshman game shall
be ineligible to participate in intra-mural competition in that sport during that season. No man is to participate in intra-mural
or inter-fraternity basketball or baseball during his training for spring football and track (to prevent injuries, etc.). A team shall
forfeit any contest in which it uses an ineligible player, and the ineligible man is ineligible for further competition in
that sport for that season.”

“Pete” Whittle just issued these new rules for fall’s intra-mural football.

Something new under the sun—a walking sprinkling machine used to water the gridiron at the University of Nebraska. It’s set
up at one end of the field at night and by next morning has traveled the length of the field,
propelled by the force of the water.

To back up this first string quartet, Wade has a half dozen men headed by sophomore star, George McAfee, who
will see plenty of action. Despite the vacant positions to be filled, only one sophomore, Bull Perdue, appears to have
a chance to break into the starting lineup.

Johnson’s Barber Shop
Sigma Alpha Epsilon and you, President Faison, should set the style in HATS for fall.

Bowling! Billiards!
REX RECREATION
—and—
20th CENTURY BOWLING
AIR-CONDITIONED YEAR ROUND
FREE TELEPHONE

Refreshing with good things to eat
Ice-cold Coca-Cola, from your own refrigerator, is a natural partner of good things to eat. Try it with buttered and
salted popcorn. It’s easy to get in the handy six-bottle carton from your dealer.

SS-150-75

COLLEGE MEN should and will wear the FINCHLEY and LEE HATS.
WITH...
® Wider Brims
® Lower Crowns
® Upturned Brims
® Homburgs

FABRICS:
® Rougher Finishes
® Smooth svelte Effects
® Sponge Finishes

COLORS:
® Browns
® Greys
® Greens
® Dark Blues

For Your Entire Wardrobe ... Visit
MARION DAVIS CO.
205 S. Tryon Street
CHARLOTTE, N.C.
