Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN. WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 13, 1937

The Davidsonian
Founded By the Class of 1915

1936 Member 1937
Associated Collegiate Press
Distributors of Collegiate Digest

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON Ave. New York, N.Y.
CHICAGO - BOSTON - SAN FRANCISCO
LOS ANGELES - PORTLAND - SEATTLE

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879.

Editor
M. JIM MORTON

Managing Editors
R. H. ROBINSON
Owen Cooke
Sam Cothran
Euclid Fant
Hector McGeachy
Fitz Vowles
Yates Faison
Harry Kuykendall
Howell Overton
Harold Sugg
Daymond Turner
John Winn
Sam Ryburn

Copy Reader
Fitz Dausic

BUSINESS STAFF
Wilson Lowrance - Circulation Manager
Ralph Chandler - Circulation Manager
Charles Moore - Collection Manager
J. M. Hall - Advertising Manager
Asst. Business Manager

We are prosperous now; we should not forget that it will be just as important to our descendants to be prosperous in their time.—Roosevelt

Mimeographed Exams...
Exams culminate the effort of a semester’s college work, and upon them largely depends the student’s grade in his own particular course. Exams ARE a great strain, and demand a maximum of concentrated study and cool logical thinking. If the student does his part in preparing for an exam, and we believe the average one does, why should not the professor?

The majority of Davidson professors mimeograph their exams, but still a great many persist in scribbling reams of illegible writing on a narrow blackboard. We have known instances in which a student’s exam grade was materially affected, not because he did not know the answers, but because the poor method of giving the exam aggravated him, and finally caused him to lose that self-control so necessary.

According to Prof. Austin Prodoehl, of Birmingham Southern College, that institution demands that all mimeograph their exams. Thus they give their students every possible advantage in an exam. We hate to believe that our professors are lazy. And besides, it takes no extra effort, for professors can mimeograph all exams as a part of their college duties. Mimeographing is the modern, efficient way, and we hope that the few remaining faculty members who fail to do this will soon adopt the practice of the majority.

We believe that every Davidson College professor, who really has the student’s welfare at heart, will put his exams in mimeograph form during the approaching exam period.—R. B. V.

DR. JOHN L. DOUGLAS, GENTLEMAN
A true gentleman, in the sense that all Davidson men have defined that word, sums up the life of Dr. John L. Douglas, who died at his home here last week. Dr. Douglas, in his nearly forty years of association with Davidson, personified the things in his life that Davidson men everywhere have tried to instill into their own lives. Gentleman, scholar, teacher, he warmed the lives of thousands of Davidson men with whom he came into contact during his long service as teacher and friend. Dignified, yet not too possessed of dignity to feel the heart throbs of students in their multitude of problems and joys, Dr. Douglas upheld to its highest degree the tenets of personal integrity, loyal leadership, and personal sacrifice. In a world that was changing, he held to the ideals that Davidson first stood for. He neither sought nor knew compromise with anything that would lower the aims this institution has ever held aloft. Davidson feels a personal loss in the death of this kindly and humble man. Predominantly a teacher, his influence extended far beyond the scope of printed word into the lives of many who knew and loved him.—C. F. S.

* * * *
We extend our sympathy to Mrs. G. R. Vowles in the recent loss of her mother, Mrs. C. L. Beckman, of Moorhead, Minn.

Y GIFT FUND...
Orchids to the ‘Y’ Cabinet and ‘Y’ Secretary Mac McClure for the successful way in which they handled the campaign for the Christmas Gift Fund. They chose a worthy goal, and then achieved the necessary contributions. We are proud of our student body.

* * * *
SENIOR PRIVILEGE, WHAT? ...
We have it on a reliable authority that seniors are to be excused from church and chapel attendance during examinations, which goes to prove that senior privileges are not an imaginary quantity after all. Although not an innovation, we are sure that the members of the senior class deeply appreciate the privilege.

APOLOGY ...
As you may have noticed, this issue contains only four pages. The staff is not lazy, but we wish to maintain a sound financial standing. The regular six-page paper will be issued after exams and possibly the next edition will be six pages, depending on the amount of national advertising.

‘QUACK, QUACK!’ ...
From recent sound effects one would think a flock of geese had been turned loose on the Davidson campus. And the Pan-Hellenic Council has practically gone into hiding. Not a stooge, we would still like to point out that the Council has yet to officially announce a band for Mid-Winters (if booing keeps up they may not get a chance). When and if they do is the time for installment plan subscribers to start calling, ‘quack, quack, money back’!

* * * *
TO LITTLE SISTERS ...
“That dangerous thing, a female wit” at Queens-Chicora, lashed The Davidsonian in the Queens-Chicora news organ, The Queens Blues. We realize that our little Presbyterian sisters are just kidding and pat them on the shoulder, along with a few kind words of brotherly advice found in one of our own columns.

EXAMS ...
Most of our readers probably already know that examinations start a week from tomorrow. Following unbroken tradition we would like to drop a hint to those who, fresh from high schools, have never had a semester examination. Such tests can be and are complete. And contrary to copybook maxims, CRAMMING DOES WORK.

CAMPUS CAMERA
FLOWN THE ATLANTIC. HE FLEW TO LITHUANIA IN 1935, DOWN IN IRELAND. WAITKUS IS NOW ATTENDING THE UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN AND PLANS TO FLY TO PARIS THIS YEAR! HE IS THE ONLY UNIVERSITY STUDENT WHO HAS HIS PICTURE ADORNING A LITHUANIAN POSTAGE STAMP!

IN GREEK LETTERS, THE LETTER DELTA IS USED MOST AND THE LETTER PHI IS USED LEAST. TRANSLATED, DELTA MEANS IN LOW PLACES WHERE MUD-FORMED AND PHI MEANS HIGH.

SORORITIES - FRATERNITIES

By AL CADE
The holidays, like all holidays must, have ended and all you guys are ready to settle down for exams, we don't think. Ringing out the Old and ringing in the New is just an echo but Enoch’s first-period bell is a very real reality. During the holidays Teeny Tatterty and Sonny Moore crashed the roto-gravure of The Charlotte Observer in barn-dance costumes. Carl Carlson played the role of Mine Host in Greensboro, Sam Ryburn’s anticipation was so vivid that he got sick before the social whirl and had nothing but orange juice for Xmas dinner. Coot Gladden, Jim Johnston, Polk and Sandy Moffett did all the hot spots in John Anderson's Tampa. Dick Johnson to Chattanooga. Dave McMillan enjoyed the sidewalks of Richmond, and more recently the stoplight of Huntersville. Dan Iverson and Holmes Hansel also singing “The Prisoner’s Song.” Domo Patterson foxed himself more than the bus-driver when he slept through Davidson and woke up in Salisbury. Hal Overton is back, especially Back, and he and Gene Vogler have sworn off smoking, welcoming any tests of their willpower. What special attraction did Elizabethtown have for Heman the Hermit? Tiger Jim and Turner need curve straighteners on their steering wheels. Colonel Fred Smith’s Xmas cards took the cake. Wiley Bradley found his girl on his Xmas tree. Why do they call Harmon Woodward “Roos?” Most of the boys came back with that “girl I left behind” look in their eyes. It’s a weary world. Have you seen Ken Knorr's picture?of Tizzie, or Ned Iverson's picture of Peggy? The Black Keys chapter of Phi Beta Kappa entertained in the Tavern Saturday night. Bobby Florence was looking for Justice. Mathis, Jim Thomas, and Joe Kellar were masters of ceremonies. Johnny Lattimer has grown a beard and is now in the movies, or did you see The Plainsman? Rumor has it the Tavern should be changed to the White Horse Inn. Lloyd Charlie, of the Marlene Dietrich legs, pulled an It Happened One Night to get a ride from Charlotte. Jimmy Ballard changed allegiance during the holidays. Bob Johnston is inviting all his friends to a spaghetti supper on the third floor of Georgia. What is Mac Covington doing with a picture of Groucho Corbin’s ex, or is it another eternal geometrical figure? Bobby Arrowsmith and Salty Peters are keeping all their New Year resolutions—they didn’t make any. Jack Lafferty has a babe in the woods. Our very sincere congratulations to Mr. and Mrs. Albert McClure on the recent addition to their family. Our sympathy to Hugh Gracey, who is ill in Charlotte. There is a lot of pointing with pride and viewing with alarm on this Mid-Winters situation. “Quack, quack, quack, money back” is the bon mot of the moment, with a reply of “Twit, twit, try and git” from Colonel Mushmouth. It’s all in a spirit of fun. It’s an old Davidson custom, the Pan-Hell. Socrates Sugg’s latest is “I think the Pan-Hell orta return a dollar and a quarter.” The students pay for the dances and it is right that they should have an interest in them and to ride a desire as to who shall play for them. The dances don’t belong to any one organization or to several organizations but to the students as a whole. We wanted and still want a big-name band for Mid-Winters but it seems that the Music Corporation of America and other agencies have locks on all the better-known orchestras, booking them for those schools making the best offer and whose schedule coincides with the orchestra’s arranged tour. We aren't backing down or changing color but we believe that Ed and the boys have made an earnest effort to please as many as possible. Our little crystal globe predicts the biggest and best Mid-Winters Davidson has ever had, so let's all get in line for a little cooperation.

———==Stolen Thunder———

PERSONALITY .... An optimist is a person who thinks he knows where he can borrow some money ... A pessimist is like a dentist, that is: he bores. He acts

EXPLANATION ... Flunk | Late hours Unexpected company Not prepared Kicked out.

HUMANITARIAN NOTE... Temple University, according to the Brown and White, is considering a pre-examination rest period to catch up on both study and rest. It is being considered for the three days immediately preceding final examinations. This also won’t happen here!

PSYCHIC... She: “What are you thinking about?” He: “The same thing you are thinking about.” She: “If you do, I'll scream.”

EPIGRAM ... Peroxide, on a lady’s dome, May save the gal From walking home.

reel dope

DAVIDSON THEATER

Wed. Jan. 13 Charlie Chan at the Opera—This is one of the best of the Charlie Chan series. Warner Oland is at his best. It is the greatest struggle of the year: Warner Oland vs. Boris Karloff.

Thurs.-Fri. Jan. 14-15 One In a Million—Sonja Heénie in her first picture and she thrills you with her dance on the ice. This lovely star was the Olympic skating champion in figure skating and in this picture you learn why.

Sat. Jan. 16 Mind Your Own Business—Charles Ruggles, that delightful hen-pecked husband is here again. He’s playing with Alice Brady who ably supports the cast and gives you an excellent comedy.

Mon.-Tues. Jan. 18-19 College Holiday—A new type of picture dealing with a college holiday and the ensuing adventures of the people concerned. See Martha Raye and Ben Bernie go wild. The plot is a hotel run by college students on the Grecian style. It also contains Eleanore Whitney and Marsha Hunt. An excellent picture. By all means see it!

AMONG THE GREEKS

Beta Theta Pi A feed was held in the chapter house Sunday night. The Christmas party was held December 21 and was attended by several girls from Charlotte.

Pi Kappa Alpha A formal dance was held at the Carolina Golf Club in Charlotte, Monday, December 21. Guests attending were Matheson, Wade Wilkinson, Doris Gambrell, Ann Pease, Betty Purser, Jean Johnston, Becky Pinkston, Georgia Hurt, Martha Jean Brooks, and Mary McBrayer of Charlotte; Caddie Willis of Concord; Mary Lou Moffitt, Dot Stewart, and Sarah Tomlinson of High Point; Lib Lambeth of Winston-Salem; Wilhelmina Efird of Albemarle; Caddie Walker of Burlington, Nancy Lyon of Smithfield, Marcha Hamilton of Monroe, Betty Jeanne Marlin of Charlotte; Mary Anderson of Greenville, S.C. and “Frankie” Temp of Sumter, S.C.

Kappa Alpha Brothers Banks Gladden, Jim Johnston, Sandy and Polk Moffett spent a pleasant weekend in Converse, S.C. The freshmen gave a Christmas party for the brothers Monday, December 21.

Pi Kappa Phi Chapter officers elected for the second semester are Tom Corbin, president; Mac Covington, secretary, and Ralph Chandler, treasurer.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon A buffet supper and Christmas party was held Friday, December 17. Guests attending included Elizabeth Fowlkes, Lib Gammon, Jennie Ann Efird, Betty Shaw, Jeanie Stough, Nancy Hovis, Dell Sutherland, Anne Little, Jane Hashagen, Johnnie Walker all of Charlotte and Brother Strother Fleming from Carolina.

Kappa Sigma George Norfleet and Billy Hill attended the Kappa Alpha-Kappa Sigma dance at Duke over the weekend. Tommy Thompson visited his home in Gastonia. A feed was held in the chapter house Sunday night. Hugh Gracey is in a hospital in Charlotte. He is expected to return soon. Charlie Yates underwent a knee operation in Greensboro during the holidays.

Phi Gamma Delta Arthur Cooke and Jim Dorsett visited their homes in Greensboro and Salisbury respectively over the weekend. Dick Haworth, '36, visited the chapter last week. David Newbold was initiated at the last meeting before the Christmas holidays. Wilson Northcross is recovering from an appendicitis operation at his home in Memphis, Tenn.

Phi Delta Theta A feed was held at the chapter house Sunday night, attended by the brothers and several guests.

Sigma Phi Epsilon John Doty spent the weekend in Rock Hill, as usual; Hiram “Lilly” White visited George Kuykendall. Brother G. C. Currie, '36, was married to Miss Margaret Donahoe of Charlotte Christmas day. Bill Broadway and D. V. Dixon went to Shelby and Greensboro respectively over the weekend. A Christmas party was held at the house December 18.

CUPID FANT

Here’s something that might be of interest to you. Davidson College has long held a place of prominence in the hearts of all good daughters of Queens, but it is only recently that The Davidsonian has crashed the pages of the Queens semi-monthly. Said bi-weekly is, by the way, quite a color scheme. It is called “Queens Blues,” and is printed in green ink. Green is produced, I am told, by mixing blue and yellow. Whether the shade of ink used is a subtle admission that the paper is a yellow-sheet, or whether they just mean that the average Queens girl is green, you can judge for yourself. Be that as it may, this morsel is taken with all apologies from the column of one Miss Ima Heart-healer:

Miss Dere Heart-healer: No matter how much I have been a-trying to get a job writing for a paper, I never seem to get one. Do you think it could be my style of writing? Where could I get me a job? —ALGERNON.

Dear Algernon: Try The Davidsonian.—I. H.

We are convinced that Miss Heart-healer was trying, in her own quaint little way, to be funny. Therefore we pause briefly here to laugh heartily and slap our knee. We heartily endorse the advice of Miss H’s. Shoot the girl right over, Ima. If there’s one thing The Davidsonian needs more than a good columnist, it’s a bit of feminine touch. We await her with outstretched arms.

Here’s another letter from the same column (what fertile imagination these Queens girls have!):

Dear Miss Heart-healer: I am desperate—being a Davidson senior I would like to be popular with the girls, especially those at Queens—but here is my problem. I have a rough, ruddy complexion, rather narrow shoulders and large ears and am a bit sensitive. All the girls I know are so pretty and vivacious that they give me an inferiority complex. If I could only meet some girl who is not such a raving beauty, who would love me for what I AM rather than what I look to be. Could you help me? —X Y Z.

(Pardon a bit of kibitzing, Ima old girl, but the word is “inferiority,” not “inferior.”) While the initials XYZ are unfamiliar to us (we tried to find them on the student directory; not succeeding, we suppose the boy is going to school under an assumed name), we have a pretty good idea who owns them. Matchmaker Heart-healer is trying to palm him off, by the way, on a gal named Lonely who writes, with amazing frankness, that she has “slightly crooked teeth, a rather large nose, an annoying case of acne” (probably some that should not be in print), and that her “figure is a perfect 47.” Better watch out, XYZ.

Let us close with a tip to the business manager of The Davidsonian. Go out and get yourself some female ad solicitors. The Queens Blues has ads for everything from a surety bond company to a leading storage battery. Far be it from me to deny any girl’s constitutional right to buy surety bonds, but if my girl’s been getting her power from a storage battery, I’m through!

The Civic Club met on Tuesday afternoon at the Civic Club Hall on South Main Street.