WEDNESDAY, MAY 19, 1937 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Three

Senior Class to Present Mock Class
Joe Hunter Is Elected Senior Marshal; Class Decides on Gift
WADE BOGGS TO PRESIDE
Gift to Be Presented at Graduation Exercises

The final plans have now been made for the Senior Class Day Exercises which will be held on Monday afternoon, June 7, in Chambers Auditorium. The Senior Marshal and the class gift have been selected. In the final voting on Monday, Joe Hunter was elected senior marshal. He defeated Hal Overton in the final vote in a count of 48-27. At the meeting of the class on last Wednesday evening, the class voted to have as their gift the furnishing of a room in the infirmary.

Class Day Program
In the Class Day Exercises, the program will be started by a brief organ recital by Kenneth Scott, who will later play the part of the “mock” salutatory address. Wilbur Edwards will play the part of Valedictorian, Tyler Port will act the part of Class Orator, and Harold Sugg will deliver the Class History. Bill McIlwinen will deliver the class poem, which is now being written. The purpose of this Class Day Exercise is to provide entertainment for the parents and friends who come for the Commencement exercises. Wade Boggs, Class President, will preside at the program.

Four members of the class were automatically nominated for the position of Senior Marshal because of their posts as Junior marshals last year. The four were Jack Branch, Wilbur Edwards, Hal Overton, and Joe Hunter.

Class '37 Gift
After much discussion at a recent class meeting, the equipment for an infirmary room was decided to be the gift for the class. President Anderson, of the committee appointed by Boggs, composed of John chairman, Frank Brown, and Ralph McClelland, suggested several different gifts, but the discussion centered around the addition to the college endowment, and the one which was selected was chosen by a vote of 60-42. Each member of the senior class will pay two dollars, which will be added to the class assessment. The gift will be presented at the graduation exercises on Tuesday by the class president.

Davidsonian Staffs Are Given Banquet
Tonight at eight o’clock, a banquet will be held for the members of the business and editorial staffs of the Davidsonian in the Banquet Hall of Chambers building. Hosts at this event are to be Jim Morton, past editor, and Hoke Robinson, business manager. Those invited to attend are the past managing editors, the present managing editors, associate staffers, columnists, and the present reporters. Also expected to attend are members of the mechanical staff of Standard Printing Company. Dr. Foreman of the faculty will be the guest speaker.

Davidson Site of Old School
Douglas Home Was Once Occupied By Davidson School Of Medicine

One of the oldest landmarks of Davidson is the house situated directly across from the Presbyterian Church on the Concord road. This historic old home, which was the headquarters of the Davidson School of Medicine many years ago, is now the residence of Dr. J. M. Douglas.

The history of the medical school of Davidson dates back many years. In the early embryonic stages of its development, the ambition of this department was only to become a preparatory school of medicine, and as such it remained for several years. In 1893, the North Carolina Legislature incorporated it under the name of the North Carolina Medical College, with Dr. Munroe as its president. The number of students increased so rapidly that the need of more room and better facilities for teaching became manifest. To meet this want, Dr. Munroe began the erection of a brick and granite building in 1896, to be devoted especially to this work.

In 1906, it was necessary to increase the staff, the facilities of the college, and the clinical work of the students, so as to meet the new requirements placed upon the college before a student could be graduated. To meet these new requirements, the college was moved to Charlotte. In this new location, the medical students would have access to the hospitals of the city, their clinical work increased, and the staff of the college increased by the doctors that practiced in the city. Later on, the college merged with the Medical College of the University of Richmond, in Richmond, Va., where it remains today.

COL. GUNNER INSPECTS MILITARY DEPARTMENT
Davidson's R.O.T.C. unit underwent its 46th annual inspection Thursday and Friday of last week, when Lieutenant-Colonel Matthew E. Gunner, P.M.S. and T. of the R.O.T.C. department at the University of Tennessee, was here. The inspection included an examination of the property, of the records, and of the methods of instruction. The proficiency of the battalion in drilling was tested on Friday afternoon. Colonel Gunner attended at least one section of each R.O.T.C. class. Davidson seemed to make a favorable impression on Colonel Gunner. He commented that the type of boy here seemed higher than is commonly found at other colleges. Lieutenant-Colonel Rhett, P.M.S. and T. of the local military unit, expressed satisfaction with the performance.

Expert Shoe Repair
Buff Shoe Shop
“QUICK SERVICE”

DRY GOODS GROCERIES RADIO SUPPLIES HARDWARE
M. H. GOODRUM & CO.
Zenith & RCA Radios

Good Printing Pays Good Profits
Printing indifferently done usually advertises a concern as one of the kind which does not consider the importance of the Quality of its Product. Have us place your printing on the same high standard as your goods. Call us 3-5 727
STANDARD PRINTING CO.
117 Garland Court, Charlotte, N. C.

LEAD COMMENCEMENT ACTIVITIES
The above Seniors will take prominent parts in the coming commencement exercises. Upper left, upper right, Kenneth Scott, Salutatorian; center, Joe Hunter, Senior Marshal; lower left, Tyler Port, Class Orator; lower right, Harold Sugg, Class Historian; Bill McIlwinen, not available.

Departing Seniors Leave These Thoughts With Us
With graduation time rapidly approaching for our senior members, the Davidsonian staff saw fit for this reporter to make calls on different ones of that class to get them to make a statement.of some sort. These seniors have made varying statements: Some are serious; some humorous. Some are pleased with recent innovations, and some are not. But let's let them speak for themselves.

Tom Corbin says—"My association with the highest type of boys anywhere and the Davidson spirit leaves me a debtor to Davidson for life.” Gibson Smith makes this statement: “The progressive attitude which has come on the campus in the last few years is welcome by those of us who desire to see Davidson take its place among the truly great institutions of the country.” Hoke Robinson comes out with an entirely different type of statement: “Four years of work and play, the sum total of which is probably little.” 

Hold on folks. Wilbur Edwards says—"Davidson needs more social life. An occasional dance couldn't ruin anybody's life.” Carl Carlson says this—"I think it took me four years to learn one thing anyway, that I know little about very few things.” Harold Sugg makes his final statement to the school press with: “I would like to take this occasion to declare my goodwill for everybody and everything at Davidson, including Freshmen, Republicans, and Yankees.” Bisco Howell wants everybody to (Continued on Page 6)

MEMBERS OF SENIOR CLASS WILL REGISTER IN GRADUATE SCHOOLS
Medical, Business, Ministerial, and Engineering Schools Are Popular

By this time next year, the senior class of '37 will be scattered far and wide. Many are going to graduate schools, while others are going to work in business and industry. The seniors have made varying statements about their future plans.

Commissions Awarded to ROTC Officers by Branch
Jack Branch and J. R. McClelland Receive Awards as Honor Graduates

FINAL PARADE OF YEAR
Lafferty and Branch Chosen Outstanding Cadets

Eight senior cadets of the Davidson College unit were presented for commissions as second lieutenants in the Corps. The following are planning to study medicine next year: J. D. Allen is going to Harvard Medical School, Tom Thurston is to attend Carolina Medical School, Templeton is to study at Davidson Medical School, and R. J. Graham is to attend the University of Virginia Medical School. Jett Moore is going to the University of Louisville Medical School.

Those planning to study business are Tom Breeden, who is to matriculate at Harvard Business School, along with Dunlap Covington and Carl Carlson. Bancroft Moseley will also attend business school. Those planning to enter the ministry are: Jim Gailey, who will attend Columbia Seminary, and Lock Vass, who is to matriculate at Louisville Theological Seminary. Fred McLean will study at Massachusetts Institute of Technology, while Carl Groover will study chemical engineering at Georgia Tech. “Butch” Abernethy will take a position at the Presbyterian Church. “Buddy” Overton is going to work for a manufacturing company in Connecticut. Carl Carlson will travel abroad until about December when he will return and take a business position. Charlie Ramseur will run a swimming pool this summer. Bill Freize is to study library work at Columbia University, and R. Lafferty is going to Cornell, where he will study chemistry. Bob Stewart is planning to attend the University of Alabama Law School, and Harold Sugg will (Continued on Page 6)

Wade Boggs, active President of the Senior Class, was elected permanent President of the Class of 1937. He defeated Wilbur Edwards, former president of the student body, on the final ballot last week. Voting began early in the week for five men who had been nominated for the position, including besides Boggs and Edwards, Jack Branch, Carl Carlson, and Joe Hunter. Boggs, with a total of 57 votes, led Edwards by 50 counts on the final poll.

Wade Boggs was recently elected to succeed Albert McClure as Secretary of the Davidson College Y.M.C.A.

When You Are in Charlotte, eat at...

JOHNSON’S BARBER SHOP
A TRADITION OF DAVIDSON MEN

The Little Pep Sandwich Shoppe
WEST FOURTH ST.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.