Page Four * THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, MARCH 10, 1937

Davidson Gets Lawrence Spearman as Asst. Football Coach

SPORTS AFIELD

Varsity Baseball, Tennis, Golf, and Track Practice Begins

Prominent visitors to the campus recently included two of baseball’s “greats” — Roger (Peck) Peckinpaugh and Lew Fonseca. These two are now on their way north, after an extensive tour of the various colleges and universities in the south. This tour is sponsored by the American League in an effort to carry instruction and advice to the younger generation of baseball players. It is, to a certain degree, an effort to cement friendly relations between the public in general and the major leagues.

According to Mr. Norman Shepard, director of athletics, it is a pity that the motion picture scheduled to be shown Monday was unfortunately forced to be cancelled. He said these pictures were splendid, both as to general interest in the stars pictured and as to the instructional value. Monday afternoon these men spent their time in advising, instructing, and correcting the charges of Coach Flake Laird. From here, they headed to Carolina, Wake Forest, State, V. P. I., and others. Note this—they aren't going to Duke.

Gridders Close

The gridders are winding up their winter drills this week. From the looks of things, the team will be about on a par with this year’s eleven. According to present appearances, Capt. Bailey Williams and Bill Nicholson will guard the flanks; Dave Warden and Lew Graham will play the tackles; Haywood Hill and George Matthis have the inside track on the guards; Bob Abell has been playing center, but will get a fight if Frank Purdy returns to school as he now plans to do; and then Teeny Lafferty, Fred Dennis, Bob McClellan, and Bill Beatty now comprise the backfield.

Do you know the difference between medal play and match play in golf? A lot of people don’t. Well, in medal play, the emphasis is laid on every stroke and especially the total score. In match play, each player plays his opponent on a hole-by-hole basis; and the winner is decided by who wins the most holes, the number of strokes taken being unimportant. This all arose from the fact that the golf team is now being chosen as the qualifying period draws to a close.

Ground Rule

A screen will be erected in centerfield on Richardson Field to facilitate playing baseball with the new structure. All balls into the screen are to be played as free balls; all in the stadium will be limited by ground rules to two bases.

Remember to make your plans now for Junior Speaking. It will be the bestest of the bestest, yowsah!

If a potential-Methuselah were given the assignment of drinking eight glasses of water daily from the new varsity swimming pool at Ohio State University, he would consume all the water—219,160 gallons, in 1,200 years.

To the Junior Class

See? Six attractive, private Dining Rooms for Fraternity and other Parties. Phone 5490 For Reservation

THACKER’S, Inc. 221 South Tryon Opp. Johnston Bldg.

W. & L. Defeats N. C. State and Carolina Licks Deacs In Semi-Finals

BOB SPESSARD IS STAR

Recapture Title Lost in 1935 Tournament

The W. & Lee Generals decisively defeated North Carolina’s White Phantoms last Saturday to cop the 16th annual Southern basketball meet at Memorial Auditorium in Raleigh. The Generals recaptured their 1934 status which had been purloined by the White Phantoms for the past two years. It is beginning to look like the two Conference teams are making it a family affair.

Carolina, seeded number two, advanced to the finals by defeating Duke 34-30 and third-seeded Wake Forest by a closer margin, 37-35. The Gens had less trouble in disposing of South Carolina, 42-22, and fourth-seeded N. C. State, 27-23. State and Wake Forest had won their first-round engagements from Richmond and Maryland respectively.

Thrilling Contest

Possibly the most exciting game of the pre-finals was the Carolina-Wake Forest encounter Friday night in which the Demon Deacons, trailing 22-36, with ten minutes to go, netted 13 points while holding the Phantoms to a single marker; almost equaling the rally that Carolina worked to beat W. & L. in the 1936 finals. Carolina was saved by the gun after the Deacons had drawn up to 35-37. Surviving this, the Phantoms went into the finals against a determined W. & L. which held them in submission throughout the hard-fought 40 minutes. Spessard, Borries, and Iler were the main cogs in the Generals’ attack. Big Bob Spessard starred throughout the tournament, capitalizing upon his graceful six feet-seven inches to lead all scorers with an aggregate number of 44 counters. The smooth General attack was featured by its bankboard work which kept the Virginians in possession of the ball in addition to the amazing number of points gained in rebounding unsuccessful long shots.

Gens Hold Lead

Carolina was never out in front and did not pack their usual scoring punch on long shots. Mullis and Potts, incidentally the smallest men on the floor, were the losers’ outstanding performers. Following the final gun and after hilarious General supporters had calmed themselves, Dr. W. H. Wannamaker, the president of the Southern Conference, presented the winner's cup and finalist trophies to Coaches Cy Young, Walter Skidmore, and their players. All tournament officials, especially Referees Merrill “Footsie” Knight, “Gummy” Proctor, and Paul Menton, are to be commended on their efficiency. The only stench on the weekend were the wide-open speculation of the ticket scalpers and the unexcusable increased hotel rates.

VARSITY TRACK TEAM TO BE STRENGTHENED

Cinder Practice Begins, Schedule Released

“Davidson’s varsity track team will be much stronger this year than last,” according to Heath Whittle, varsity and freshman track coach. He also stated that Davidson will have a more balanced team than in the past few years because of the sophomores from last year’s freshman team. Practice sessions started last Thursday, March 2, and the first meet will be held at Columbia, S. C., on April 3, when Davidson will meet the University of South Carolina. About 35 or 40 men have reported for varsity competition, while only about 15 or 25 frosh have been out daily. Whittle stated that he did not know how the frosh would stack up this year, but he had a few fairly good distance runners up from this year’s cross-country team. He expects to get a line on the freshman runners next week when the interfraternity meet will be held.

The varsity and freshman track schedules are as follows:

Varsity Schedule
April 3—South Carolina there.
April 10—Citadel there.
April 17—V. P. I. here.
April 24—Maryville, there.
April 28—Furman here.
May 8—Duke here.
May 14-15—Conference meet at Durham.

Freshman Schedule
April 8—Cen. High at Charlotte.
April 17—V. P. I. here.
April 24—Presbyterian there.
April 28—Furman here.
May 6—P. J. C. here.

CHARLOTTE, N. C. 415 South Tryon Street

PAUL & CRYMES, INC. SPORTING GOODS CHARLOTTE, N. C.NEW MENTOR

(Pictured above is Lawrence Spearman, who has recently been added to the Davidson coaching staff. Mr. Spearman hails from Chester, S.C., where for nine years he has coached splendid high school teams. He arrived Monday and has already begun work with the squad out for spring practice. It is expected that he will be a great asset to Davidson’s McEver and Chapman in turning out another winning team. During his career in Chester, his team won three state championships and secured a good name for itself in high school circles. He has turned out many athletes who have made names for themselves in college football. Bob Abell of the sophomore class is one of his proteges who is attending Davidson. (Courtesy Charlotte Observer).

Boone Wrestlers Capture Titles in Seven of Eight Weights

Appalachian State won the Carolina A.A.U. wrestling meet held there last Friday and Saturday by capturing seven out of the eight weights. Three members of Davidson’s Wildcat wrestling team went to the finals but lost. Elon won in the eighth weight.

On the first day of the meet, Patterson (Shelby) won a time decision of 3:29 over Blue (D); Fort (D) won a time decision of 1:42 over Barnhill (Barium Springs); Parker (D) won a time decision of 8:45 over Cranford (Albemarle); Ellis (D) won a fall over Rogers (Edenton) in 8:30; White (Troutman) won a time advantage of 1:40 over Fort (D); and Parker (D) won a time decision of 3:20 over Martin (Elon).

In the final matches, Cooks (Appalachian) won a time decision of 1:47 over Parker (D); Ewing (Appalachian) won over Ellis (D) by a fall in 8:46; and Hobbs (Appalachian) won a time advantage of 1:29 over McFadyen (D). McFadyen won second place in the heavyweight class.

Davidson's wrestlers defeated Maryville last Monday by the score of 15-11. The results were as follows: Blue (D) won a time advantage of 8:10 over Stevens (M) in the 118 lb. class; Gillespie (M) won in a fall over Lowrance in the 126 lb. class; Judy (M) won over Craver in a time advantage of 2:00 in the 135 lb. class; Parker won a time advantage of 5:00 over Coulter (M) in the 145 lb. class; Ellis won a time advantage of 1:35 over Propst in the 165 lb. class; Scull (M) won a time advantage of 1:20 over Fort in the 155 lb. class.

(Continued on Page 6)

SERVICE WITH INDIVIDUAL ATTENTION
Norton’s Barber Shop
NORTON & CIDROAM Proprietors

Appalachian State Wins State A.A.U. Mat Tourney

Greek Cinder Meet Coming

Twelve Events to Be Run Off In Annual Contest

The annual inter-fraternity track meet for the season of 1937 will be run off on March 18 and 19, it was definitely announced by Track Coach Heath Whittle. All fraternity men who have not previously won varsity letters or freshman numerals in track will be eligible for competition. Coach Whittle is particularly anxious to have all freshmen, not out for another spring sport, enter so that he may get a line on any prospective material for the track team this year.

Each fraternity will be allowed to enter two men in each event, of which there are eleven. Only one team from each fraternity will be allowed to participate in the half-mile relay. The twelve events which will constitute the field day are as follows: 100 yard dash, 220 yard dash, 440 yard run, 660 yard run, three-quarters mile run, 120 yard low hurdles, broad jump, high jump.

(Continued on Page 6)

Twenty Players Answer Baseball Candidates Call

TRYOUTS BEING HELD FOR GOLF LINKS QUARTET

Charlie Ross, Bill Snow, Ray Pittman Make Lowest Scores in Tryouts

“B” TEAM IS ORGANIZED

Tryouts Being Played at Carolina Golf Club

Tryouts for the 1937 edition of Davidson's varsity golf team have been going on since last March 3rd, and will continue up to Saturday, March 13th. Tryouts have been held at the Carolina Golf Club in Charlotte. These tryouts will decide who will play on the varsity golf team. The first four will be members of the first team while the next four men will compose a “B” team. The number “1” man on the second team will be an alternate on the first team also. 54 holes are played by each man in the tryouts. There have been, so far, only three men to complete the three rounds of play. They are as follows, with their scores included: Charley Ross, who is leading at present with a total of 233 for the 54 holes; Bill Snow with a score of 239, and Ray Pittman with a score of 252.

Ralph McClelland, captain of this year’s team, stated that the scores this year are higher than usual, but the course at Charlotte is in bad condition and makes it impossible to get good scores.

Complete Tryouts

Others who have completed one or more rounds with their scores include: Ralph McClelland, 36 holes with a total of 181; Hinson Maples, one round with a total of 80; Jimmy Westall, one round with a total of 87; Yates Faison with a total of 172 for two rounds. Others who are trying out for the team are: Hoke Robinson, Tom Mullen, Tom Henderson, Sam Newell, Jack Tilson, and Stuart Barnes.

McClelland stated that at the end of this week, when tryouts are over and the team is determined, the first four men would go into intensive practice the following week and determine the order in which they are to play the matches. This practice is also in preparation for the opening match of the season, which is against Catawba, on March 20, at the Charlotte course. The only other match before the Spring Holidays is against Hampden-Sydney on March 23, in Charlotte.

7 Lettermen Return

McClelland also stated that they expected to have a good season as only one letterman from last year’s team was lost. Four lettermen will return. They include Captain McClelland, Charley Ross, Bill Snow, and Hinson Maples. The letterman who was lost was George Cowan. He also stated that if any of these lettermen were beaten in the tourney by candidates, they would naturally take their place as regulars.

The season last year proved to be one of the most successful in recent years.

(Continued on Page 6)

Davidson Theatre

The Best in Entertainment

THREE SMART GIRLS—Thursday, March 11
Deanna Durbin, Nan Grey, and Barbara Read

THE OUTCAST—Friday, March 12
The Struggles of a Social Outcast Against Society. See It!

DON’T TURN ’EM LOOSE—Saturday, March 13
With Lewis Stone, James Gleason, and Bruce Cabot, in a swell prison picture. With a good plot.

THE CRIME NOBODY SAW—Monday, March 15
See if you can find the crime. Test your Detective Ability.

YOU LIVE ONLY ONCE—Tuesday, March 16
Henry Fonda as an innocent man condemned to die, and Sylvia Sidney as his wife.

MAID OF SALEM—Wed.-Thurs., March 17-18
Claudette Colbert as “Maid of Salem,” with Fred MacMurray

Roger Peckinpaugh and Lew Fonseca Instruct Wildcat Baseball Squad

MANY REGULARS BACK

Sophomores Expected to Push Veterans Hard

Once again the sharp crack of ash against horsehide resounded over Richardson field Monday afternoon when the first regular baseball practice of the season was held. More than twenty candidates reported to the call issued by Coach Flake Laird, and this number is expected to swell to thirty when spring football practice is discontinued.

The most important feature of the practice was the presence of Roger Peckinpaugh and Lew Fonseca, veterans of many campaigns in major league baseball and at present sent out by the American League to instruct collegiate baseball players, who were on the field giving valuable pointers and correcting faults of the Wildcat players. After a snappy fielding and batting practice, Peckinpaugh and Fonseca demonstrated the art of sliding into a base with the minimum of risk, pointing out many tricks of the big leaguers in base running, stealing, and hook sliding into the bag.

Abundant Material

The abundance of good material reporting for practice gives promise of a smooth playing team to represent the “Red and Black” on the diamond this year. Almost all of last year’s regulars are back along with a large number of promising sophomores. Coach Laird’s main difficulty at present appears to be pitchers. Veteran Herman Yearwood is back and J.D. Hicks, who pitched consistently good ball for the freshmen last year, is being counted on to more than hold their own on the mound, but outside of that, the pitching talent is unknown.

Regulars of last year around whom it is expected to build this year’s nine are Captain Bill Quick, Okie Bankhead, Doug Neal, Fielding Clark, Teeny Lafferty, Jim Dickson, Joe Kellum, Asbury Howard, and Elwood Moyer. Other good-looking prospects who will push these men hard for a berth on the team are:

(Continued on Page 6)

JOIN...

... The Ranks of Well Dressed Men

... The ranks of Davidson Men who are wearing Jay Suits ... They are well dressed.

You, too, are invited to take advantage of the privilege offered you. Gabardines, twist, tweeds, and novelty weaves. All latest fabrics in the latest styles. And tailored to fit you for as low as $24.50

Make your selection now
Have it for Spring Holidays
And Pay Later

JAY TAILORING CO.
ED. MACK
312 West 4th St.