Page Six THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, APRIL 14, 1937

Essay Contest Extended

French Club of Converse to Present Program Here On April 21

TO GIVE RECEPTION

Le Cercle Francais Plans Appearance at Winthrop

The time for submitting essays in French on “Peter Stuart Ney et le Sceau de Davidson College” has been extended to the tenth of May. All contestants are requested to consult again the printed rules.

On Wednesday, April 21st, the Davidson Cercle Francais will be hosts to the Alliance Francaise of Converse College. About twenty-five visitors are expected to arrive at Davidson in time for a complimentary dinner offered through the courtesy of the college administration. At eight o'clock, the visitors will present in Chambers auditorium the three-act play in verse by Edmond Rostand, Les Romanesques. This semi-poetic drama deals with the loves of two romantic youngsters, their deceptions, and eventual happiness. The same play was presented brilliantly three years ago by the Converse players at a joint performance with the Davidson Cercle. A full resume of the play will be supplied to all who attend, and it is thought there will be little difficulty in following the action. After the play, the Davidson Cercle will entertain the visitors at a reception in the Quadwranglers room. The Davidson group, accompanied by Dr. Scott, has drilled the play.

On Monday, April 26th, the Cercle Francais will present its final appearance of the season, a program of three French comedies in Johnston Hall at Winthrop College, Rock Hill, S.C. This will be the last of the Davidson players' performances, having been given earlier in the season at Coker College, Converse College, and in Chambers auditorium. The Davidson group will be entertained at dinner, and after the plays, a complimentary reception will be held.

DAVIDSON IN A NUTSHELL (Continued from Page 2)

Salty Arrowsmith, college student in coal mines of Bluefield. Trained for life in the mines. Philbert The Nozy says, “I can't send Davidsonian home because I got something about me.” To Carolina for the past weekend. Major: First Year German for four years. Ambition: to be a baby doctor. Second ugliest man in senior class. Look-alikes: Philbert, Salty. Theme week: “I had wings like an angel...” Assistantships: and Honors. Motto: He who knows not wine, women, and song remains a fool his whole life long.

DAVIDSON NINE CHALKS (Continued from Page 4)

Davidson secured nine hits off the hurling of Connie Mack Berry, but could not make them count in the pinch. The Wildcats journey to Chapel Hill and Durham for return engagements with Carolina and Duke during this week.

PROFESSORS ATTEND (Continued from Page 1)

At the first general meeting, the famous world chemist Sir James Kendall, of Edinburgh University, addressed the society. Sir James is the author of a chemistry text used in Davidson College for some years. The society also plans to make visits to industrial enterprises of interest which are in the vicinity of Chapel Hill.

KITTEN CINDERMEN (Continued from Page 4)

880 yard run—McAlpine, Dick Gammon, and Preston; 220 yard dash—Birmingham, French; hurdles—Calhoun and Harbin; pole vault—Joe King; 220 yard low hurdles—Calhoun and Harbin; shot-put—Sprunt, Glenn, and Miller; high jump—Black; discus—Miller and Sprunt; javelin—Glenn, Miller, and Sprunt; broad jump—Black and Sprunt.

LETITIA CURRIE TO STUDY LAW

Teacher Receives Scholarship To Institute of International Law

Miss Letitia Currie, eldest daughter of Dr. and Mrs. Archibald Currie, of Davidson, received a telegram last Monday from the Carnegie Foundation notifying her that she is one of four persons in the United States to receive a scholarship in international law at the Hague, famous capital of peace work and site of the World Court in Holland. She is to study there this summer. Miss Currie will spend eight weeks attending the summer school of the Institute of International Law. This would be impossible for the average student, since all lectures are to be in French. To this school, chosen scholars from all over the world go to receive instruction from noted professors. The sessions are regarded as unusually interesting this year now that peace throughout the world is seriously threatened by armament races. Miss Currie, who was notified by Dr. Scott of Washington, president of the institute, is also secretary of the Carnegie Foundation. She is an honor graduate of Salem College in Winston-Salem. She received her master’s degree at the University of North Carolina in international law. At present, she is a teacher in the Davidson public schools. Her father is our well-known Dr. Currie, professor of economics and political science here. Her mother is a daughter of the late Col. William J. Martin, for many years professor of chemistry here.

STORY OF COLLEGE TO (Continued from Page 1)

They should prove interesting to alumni and friends of the college. Dr. James Brown

RHYM SECTION OF BAND

Appearing in the above picture is the rhythm section of the Davidson Symphonic Band which is to make a southern tour in the near future. Reading left to right they are as follows: Wallace Marley, Billie Crooks, Gil Palmer, Professor Thane McDonald, Julian Squires, Neill Whitlock, and James C. Pfohl.

SCABBARD AND BLADE (Continued from Page 1)

Regiment—are Captain, Jack Branch; First Lt., Jim Johnston; Second Lt. J. O. Branton, and First Sgt., Russell Patterson. There was a banquet at 7:30 on Monday night of this week, honoring the new initiates. The banquet hall was very appropriately decorated in red, white, and blue bunting. Music was furnished by Chubby King and his popular local orchestra, and the principal address was delivered by Lieut. Col. John T. Rhett. His speech was followed by a talk by Dr. J. W. McConnell, the college physician. Honorary members present included: Major Charles W. Seifert, Mr. F. L. Jackson, Dr. H. M. Moffett, and Dr. Frazer Hood. Cadet Lieut. Col. Jack Branch served as toastmaster at the enjoyable occasion.

HALL FAMILY (Continued from Page 3)

Franklin Price Hall and the Rev. Joseph K. Hall, both of whom will attend the Centennial, are sons of James Davidson Hall, by his third wife. Mr. F. P. Hall this year will complete 50 years of educational work, 35 years of which have been spent as superintendent of schools in Gaston County. The Rev. J. K. Hall has been a minister for nearly fifty years.Union and has served as a teacher. A graduate of the Seminary of Union Theological, he is now pastor of Goshen Presbyterian Church in Belmont.

RISING JUNIOR CLASS (Continued from Page 1)
The nominees were Tom Abbott, Bill Beaty, Tom Henderson, Dave McMillan, Terrell Porter, Stitt Robinson, Dick Taylor, Dick Towill, and Archer Torrey. Ovid Bell, Bob Gish, Addison Long, Bill Marquess, Tom Mullen, Jim Pratt, John Reisner, and Locke White were nominated for secretary-treasurer. After the first ballot, eight were left for president, four for vice-president, and five for secretary-treasurer. Those for president were Pittman, Stair, Hemphill, Squires, Sloan, Calvin, and Brewer. Porter, Abbott, Towill, and Beaty were left for vice-president. Marquess, Mullen, Pratt, Reisner, and White survived in the other race. Rice, Marquess, Stair, Pittman, Brewer, and Sloan stayed after the second voting. Abbott and Porter remained for vice-president, and Marquess, Mullen, and Pratt were left for secretary-treasurer.

BARROW IS CHOSEN (Continued from Page 1)
Billy Barrow was chosen for the office of secretary and treasurer of his class in their sophomore year also. Phi Delta Theta is his fraternity. Billy is particularly active in music. Retiring officers of the class are president, Jim Dorsett; vice president, Elmore Holt; and secretary-treasurer, Haywood Hill.

CHEMISTRY SOCIETY (Continued from Page 1)
The officers are Roy S. Bigham, Jr., recorder, and William C. Link, Jr., advisor.

FOUNDER'S DAY TO BE (Continued from Page 1)
The first in a long series of meetings extending through the spring will be on April 20. Alumni in Morganton and Greenville, S.C., will gather. Founder's Day itself, on the 22nd, will be the date of the most significant meetings. On this day, chapters in Charlotte, N.C., Mass., Jacksonville, Fla., Memphis, Tenn., Miami, Va., Charlottesville, Ky., and those in eastern South Carolina and Lexington, in York, Lancaster, and Chester counties of South Carolina will all gather. The meeting in Charlotte, at which between two and three hundred are expected, will be the largest held. Cameron Morrison, former governor of North Carolina, will speak, and a skit showing Peter Stuart Ney’s connection with Davidson has been planned. Gatherings will be held in Concord on April 25, and in Atlanta, Ga., on May 4.

WINSTON HIGH (Continued from Page 4)
Wilson had the most decisive match of the day. In the doubles, Croom and Hendrix defeated Tenney and Hunter, 1-6, 6-4, 8-6. Beall and Ezell lost to Hahn and Shore, 6-3, 6-0, and Wood and Schabel beat Haltiwanger and Wilson, 6-1, 1-6, 6-3.

DENNIS TO SUCCEED (Continued from Page 1)
Dennis was a forward on the varsity basketball team and led the ‘Cats in scoring for the year.

COLLEGE JOURNALISTS (Continued from Page 3)
Representatives of National Advertisers will feature events of the convention. Editorial and business problems will be discussed by the respective groups, and other valuable instruction will be given to the college journalists. Officers of the N.C.C.P.A. are James W. Mason, president; Peter of N.C. State College, first vice president; Hoke Robinson of Davidson, second vice president; Mary Morris Terry of Flora Macdonald, secretary; and Herbert Upchurch of Duke, treasurer. Awards will be presented to the best publications in Class A (colleges with enrollment over 1,000) and Class B (colleges under 1,000). The three types of publications to be considered are college newspapers, magazines, and annuals. Hoke Robinson of The Davidsonian was host to the fall convention which met in Charlotte.

FRESHMEN ROMP ON (Continued from Page 4)
The freshmen won the contest, 7-6, in the ninth inning. Thomas hurled fine ball in the second contest to bag an easy 8-2 decision over the Belmont High club. As expected, the first game of the season found the freshmen rather inexperienced, but nevertheless, a fine performance was turned in. In the fourth inning, the Kittens took a 4-1 lead, but Brevard rallies in the fifth and seventh innings erased this lead, and a run in the first half of the ninth put the Junior College club in the lead. But Dunford rapped out a long triple with a man on second, and then came in on Verner’s bunt. Although he allowed eight hits, Thomas was practically invincible in the pinches and coasted to victory behind a six-run uprising of the Kittens in the very first stanza. Dunford again led the hitters, smacking out two hits in three appearances at the plate.

AMONG THE GREEKS (Continued from Page 5)
Nancy Meek, Sible Searcy, and Martha Alexander, all of Charlotte, and Misses Virginia Neaman, Katherine Rayford, and Margaret Brown from Concord attended. Dr. and Mrs. Cumming acted as chaperones at the dance. Earnest Dooley went to Miami while Russell Patterson went with the track team to Charleston, S.C.

Pi Kappa Phi
Misses Sally McDowell and Helen Cumnock from Queens-Chicora and Misses Peggy Smith and Elizabeth Horne from Monroe visited the chapter over the weekend. Joe Kellam spent the weekend in Bis- coe. “Salty” Peters attended the annual May Frolics at Carolina. Jim Hill went to Sharon, S.C., and Bill went to Winston-Salem.

Kappa Sigma
A party was given Friday night at the house for the Chi Omegas from Queens-Chicora. Brothers Billy Hill and George Norfleet attended the dances at Carolina over the weekend. Ray Pittman spent the weekend at home. Warren Gaw spent the weekend in Greensboro.

Pi Kappa Alpha
Ogburn Spoon spent the weekend at his home in Greensboro. Ken Knaw visited Converse College over the weekend. “Snoz” Hill spent the weekend at his home. Brother Bill Cox and T.J. Turner went on a house party on the Catawba.

Sigma Phi Epsilon
Daymond Turner, Ed Cloyd, and Walker Harper went to the Sig-Ep ball in Raleigh. They were entertained at the home of Dean and Mrs. Cloyd. Jim Sample, Bill Broadway, Bill Black, and Somerville went to a house party on the Catawba River. Brothers Friburg and Heilman spent the weekend in Greeneville, Tenn. Brother J.F. Boty went to Rock Hill to Winthrop. A feed was given Sunday night for Dr. and Mrs. Vowles.

UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY
RICHMOND, VA.
B.R. LACY, JR., D.D., President
Union’s Library offers a well-rounded, rapidly growing book collection, comfortable reading accommodations, and the services of trained staff members. To its alumni and the ministry of the Southern Presbyterian Church, the Library’s extension service makes available some 45,000 books by mail.

You’ll quickly find out for yourself that Chesterfields are MILDER... that they have a more pleasing TASTE and AROMA.
Copyright 1937, L.