Page Six THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, NOV. 10, 1937.

SERVICE LED MILLER AND OVENS

(Continued from Page 1)

(Continued from Page 3)

(Continued from page three)

By HENRY B. BAKER

The Wildcats.

By C. SHAW SMITH

The smallest living man in the world stamped his foot and his high squeaky voice said, "Step right up folks,
and don't be bashful." This little man, Major Mite, was interviewed at Ringling Bros. Circus in Charlotte. Representing Davidson's line
to the red and black and blue and white goal posts behind, backing up the stone wall were four fierce-looking
Wildcats, each bearing the name of a Davidson backfield man.

The Pi Kappa Phi's walkway was adorned by a huge sign which depicted a Davidson football player, dragging a much-battered
ram behind him, shaking hands with a white-bearded alumnus. In front of the SAE house was a realistic bull with
the caption "Bull McEver and his Wildcats" and a wolf with "Ray Wolfe and his Rams." Cardboard animals represented the
rams and wildcats. On a sign placed above the porch were the words, "Make Lambs out of those Rams."

Dr. Thompson said then that a personality of a spirit is hard to grasp. Christ is necessary to reveal to
us that incarnation that alone can satisfy the human minds and hearts. "In Christ God has a face. We behold
the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Christ."

Concluding his sermon Dr. Thompson said, "You ask me to define God," but in words I cannot define Him so
that you can lay hold of Him, but I can show you more. I can take you to Calvary and
there you look on one who loved; He opened his eyes and took in the sins and woes of all
humanity.

Dr. Cunningham said he was pastor of Presbyterian Church of Gainesville, Fla., early in his ministry and was very popular.
Later Dr. Cunningham became a professor and President of the Presbyterian Theological Seminary.

One of the first gem courses given at Davidson was designed especially for trains 37 and 38 of the Southern
schedule and this is not convenient for the team's use.

The following film ratings are based upon those of current magazines and the observations of the columnist. A—Excellent; B—Good; C—Fair;
D—Poor.

"THE LIFE OF EMILE ZOLA" — Paul Muni, Joseph Schildkraut. This picture deserves an A.

"CHARLIE CHAN ON BROADWAY" — Louise Henry, Warner Oland, Donald Woods, Joan Marsh. Love! Mystery! Thrill! and plain Hysterics!OAKIE SPRING
CONVENTION

Thompson said, “We are like our Brother Christ in that we are God’s children. We are like Christ in endeavoring
to bring into one family all the people of the world and to bring about the Kingdom of God on
earth.”

ETA THETA PI IS

(Continued from Page 1)

enabled the University of Wisconsin coed to determine whether she is receiving a bona fide diamond ring. It deals with
the appreciation of the cut and quality of precious stones.

At this meeting, Saturday morning, the delegates heard an address by His Excellency Clyde R. Hoey, governor of North Carolina,
broadcast by station WPTF, and then the convention was adjourned. The delegates were entertained with a banquet Friday night, at
which Carl Goerch, editor of “The State,” was speaker, and invited to see the State-Citadel football game as guests of
the Athletic Association.

Due to the financial success of the fall meeting, which was the best-attended and most successful yet held, the treasurer,
Dick Vowles, reports that the coming spring meeting should surpass even it.

DAVIDSON ICE & FUEL CO.
PHONE 13
... Delivered Same Day ...
ANYTIME

NOW PLAYING

DAVIDSON THEATRE

Wednesday, Nov. 10 - Madame X
Thur.-Fri. Nov. 11-12 - Life of Emile Zola
Saturday, Nov. 13 - Charlie Chan on Broadway
Mon.-Tue. Nov. 15-16 - Artists and Models

Chesterfields give more pleasure to smokers wherever they are... On land or sea or in the air Chesterfields satisfy millions
all over the world. They’re refreshingly milder... They’re different and better... A taste that smokers like.
