WEDNESDAY, NOV. 10, 1937. THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Three

Question of the Week

As you may already know, the last issue of the University of North Carolina newspaper carried a rather sarcastic comment to the effect that it was about time something else was said about the “Davidson spirit.” The columnist went on to add that Davidson spirit is one of the most sadly over-rated things in North Carolina and that the only reason we have a good football team is because we have a good coach.

We were rather curious to know what sort of reaction this would produce among the Davidson students, so we asked a number of them this question: “Do you think that the ‘Davidson spirit’ is a reality, and if so, is it over-rated?” As usual, we got varied answers, but most seemed to feel that the old spirit, even if dormant, is still here. Here are the answers:

Jim Hill, Senior—
“The Davidson spirit is still here; it’s not over-rated. In fact, it is one of the greatest assets the college has. That's one thing that makes our football team as good as it is. I don’t believe the spirit has changed at all since I've been here.”

Wade Barrow, Senior—
“Yes, I think it's over-rated. With the majority of the students, just like other schools, when we win, there's plenty of spirit, but when we lose, the spirit just isn’t there. However, that’s the state of affairs. I'd like to see it as it should be at all times, win or lose.”

David Sprunt, Sophomore—
“I think the Davidson spirit is much better than the spirit at other schools. It is definitely a reality, and it has not diminished, as far as I can see, since I’ve been here, in spite of the fact that we perhaps do not have so outstanding a team this year as last.”

Alex Erwin, Junior—
“Before I came to Davidson, and ever since I've been here, I've heard about the Davidson spirit. I'm not saying that it’s over-rated, but I do think it’s declined since last year. There seems to be less cheering and less excitement at games this season.”

Jack Tillotson, Junior—
“Nobody can deny that our football teams are good, but there must be something else in order for Davidson to hold her own against teams like Carolina and Duke. What is it that keeps our men going for sixty minutes a game? I don't think the spirit has declined, either. Anybody can yell when we're winning, and we won more last year.”

Juniors To Manage

Six Juniors have been appointed to act as Business Manager of The Davidsonian on consecutive weeks. These men have been selected by Charles Moore, who states that “this is being done in order to give the Juniors the experience needed to run the business end of the paper.” The man in charge will have control of the salesmanship and the layout of the advertisements. The other men will act in their usual capacity.

Leave For New York

Mr. Smith and Fred Scott and Malcom Lockhart left Sunday with their secretaries, Miss Gladys Smith and Miss Caroline Lingle, for New York City where they will talk to the alumni of that city in regard to the centennial campaign for funds. The party expects to be gone about a week, during which time they will meet with the alumni of Richmond, Va., Philadelphia, and New York City. They will also have the opportunity to see Davidson play Harvard at Cambridge, Mass.

Interviewed For Paper

Davidson Is Mellen’s Favorite Southern School

Earl Mellen had just called time for intermission, so this reporter rushed up to see if he couldn't get that coveted interview with the popular orchestra leader and eke out a little new “dope” on different subjects. Backing him up into a corner where he couldn't escape me, I asked him if he was glad to be back for more Davidson dances. He replied, “Of course, I am.” And he also added that, whether we believed it or not, Davidson was his favorite southern school, and as his alma mater, Carnegie Tech, when it comes to looking up southern football scores, he always looks at Davidson's first.

Kemp is Mellen’s Favorite

Hal Kemp is his favorite big-timer and everybody liked his style towards arrangements. I think their arrangement of “O Davidson” is one of the best ever heard. I'd like to see it played more often in the north, and it was extremely popular. That's good publicity, eh what? His all-time favorite tune remains “Stardust.” Out of the current hits, “The Moon Got in My Eyes” and “Once in a While” are up and coming.

He came to us after playing for dances at Sewanee College, and he will continue playing for college dances for the remainder of the year. He expressed the opinion that he greatly preferred playing for college dances, and he preferred playing for them in the South. Mellen stated that “you southerners” just get more enjoyment out of dances than the northerners. There is a definite enthusiasm and appreciation in the southern college dances that is lacking in the north.

Band Organized in Pittsburgh

His band started with only four members when he was in high school in Pittsburgh. Ten come from Pittsburgh and two from West Virginia. They are all youthful and full of fun. I have never talked to a perfect stranger who was more cordial or gracious than Mellen. He was also very obliging to all who made requests. He said that since he was asked back this time, he feels more like he has become a regular and he wants to make it a custom every year. (He is a good Presbyterian, too). After this lengthy discourse, I thought perhaps I had better be a little obliging and let him get a few minutes rest out of the intermission. So we parted like the oldest of friends.

Band to Take Harvard Trip

The Davidson College Band, under the direction of Professor James Christian Pfohl, will accompany the football squad to Harvard this week. A few other supporters will also be present and will add a great deal to the pep of the Wildcat side. Tentative reports are that they will leave Thursday morning at eight o'clock and will, in all probability, spend the first night in Washington. It is not certain whether a concert will be given in the capital city or not. The second night will be spent in New York City at the Wellington Hotel. Plans are under way for a national hook-up over the Columbia Broadcasting System on Friday night, but the time of this is at present not definite. If the concert is played, it will be direct from the CBS studios in New York. The band will arrive in Boston Saturday morning and go out to Cambridge shortly before game time. The band, one of the finest in the South, will play at the game and will put on practically the same show they did at the Davidson-Carolina game, featuring “William Tell,” goose-stepping to the “Blue Danube.” (Continued on Page Four)6) DON’T BE A BALD-HEAD
XERVAX TREATMENT
Davidson Barber Shop

Miss Sarah Frances Crosby, of Chester, who was “Miss Carolina” sponsor for the beauty title, was given the title by Earl Carroll, famed New York producer, at the Davidson-Carolina Homecoming game last Saturday. (Courtesy Charlotte Observer).

Great Enthusiasm Shown In Davidson Scout Work
“Y” Cabinet Concentrates On Boys’ Work

Feeling that there was a need among the young people of high school and grammar school age in the town for constructive organizations to which they could belong, the Y Cabinet has for the past several years been concentrating on boys' work in the community. Last year, a Scout hut costing over three hundred dollars was constructed. This has become the hub for all the boys' work. The troop held weekly meetings in their new hut. Great enthusiasm was shown as the boys passed from the Tenderfoot grade to higher ranks. A gift of one hundred and fifty dollars was made to the boys' work last year, and another gift of a similar amount has been received this year. This money is being used to buy tools for wood, metal, and leather work. Boo Walker, a “Y” Cabinet member, is in charge of this work.

The troop formed last year has been expanded and now holds three or four meetings with an attendance of over twenty at each. The men of the village Sunday School class have constructed a Scout hut, and the troop held their first meeting there last week. The boys are very enthusiastic about the idea, and the organization of the group is going strong. The organization in the colored community is headed by Frank Brown. Working with him are Bob Brandon, Vernon Youngblood, Andy Wilkinson, and John Wilson. There are thirty members in the club, and three meetings have been held this year. One night, a party was given, and over fifty came. On several nights during the week, games are played under the direction of college students. The club plans to do some landscaping around the new hut.

New troops have been formed. Bob King and Bob Finley have been acting as leaders for the old troop, located at the High School. New flags and benches have been purchased. Ed Shewmake is Senior Patrol leader. The leader of the Raccoon Patrol is Charles Steel, Le Conte Cathey heads the Flaming Arrows, and Fred Beadle is the leader of the Flying Eagle Patrol. These patrols are now competing for a prize that will be awarded within the next two weeks. Watson Street and Ivan Whetmore have been organizing a troop among the boys in the mill village. So far this year, they have had three meetings.

NATIONAL FELT HATS
National Hat Shops
108 So. Tryon St.
Complete Line of Hats, Shirts, and Ties

(Continued on Page 6)

The Soda Shop
Sandwiches, Smokes, Magazines
Open Sundays, P. M.
Mooresville, N. C.

Pupils Find Organic To Be Hardest
History Courses Rank Second In Difficulty

The most difficult college subject, according to a survey, is organic chemistry. Many students have found it to be the hardest subject they have ever taken. The Bureau of Educational Research has revealed that organic chemistry is the most difficult subject, followed closely by history courses. The survey also showed that students find political science, general biology, and American literature to be particularly challenging.

No Radio Program During Next Week

Due to the Band's trip, there will be no Friday or Sunday program this week, Professor Pfohl has announced. However, the regular programs will be renewed as scheduled upon the Band's return.

Calls Car ‘Davidson’

The utility company has named one of its new cars “General Davidson” in honor of the college. Officials requested that the car be named after the college, and it was agreed upon.

(Continued on Page 6)

Plumbing and Heating
R. W. DUNCAN
Phone Day 180
Night 2028
Mooresville, N. C.

BEST WISHES FOR A VICTORIOUS HOMECOMING
SOUTHERN 5 & 10c STORE
Prompt and Courteous Service
Soda Fountain, Candies
DAVIDSON, N. C.

WHITE DRUG STORE
Prescriptions Filled By Efficient and Experienced Pharmacists
Stationery

First Winthrop Day Instituted In 1898

Winthrop-Davidson Day was by no means a “brain-child” of the class of '38. According to accurate information, such an occasion took place as far back as 1898. In the 1898 ‘Quips and Cranks’ in a calendar of events for the year is the following statement: ‘May 13th (and, incidentally, it was Friday the 13th)—Winthrop College girls over en masse. Two and a half girls to a boy on the hill. Ain’t it nice? Mr. Joe Johnston, near the end of this historic day, when confronted with nothing to do, the students held a dance in Old Chambers! Pan-Hellenic, take note...

Speakers at Alumni Luncheon Praise Davidson

Carson Gives Praise to Seniors On Insurance

Torrey McLean Made Head of Social Committee

Charlotte Assembly

Devotional Is Given Sunday

Crane for Rent
Homecoming
M. P. Henderson
Gulf Gas & Oil

The Davidsonian

First Parade Will Be Held Friday, 19th

Last Times Today!
“Stella Dallas”
Barbara Stanwyck, John Boles, Anne Shirley

Pat and Joan, wise-cracking and fighting! And How!
PAT O’BRIEN
Joan Blondell
“BACK IN CIRCULATION”
Extra! March of Time
Balcony 25c. Anytime

Thur. Fri. Sat.
Opens Monday
Spencer Tracy
Luise Rainer
In “Big City”

HOTEL CHARLOTTE