WEDNESDAY, APRIL 14, 1937 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Five

John Mawhinney Elected As President of Society
Sherrard Rice and Victor Hollis Elected to Fill Secondary Offices

PROGRAMS ARE TO VARY
Chairmen of the Committees Are Appointed

At the April 4th meeting, the Christian Endeavor installed its new officers with Dr. Moffett conducting the installation. Succeeding Bill
Brown as president was J. A. Mawhinney. Sherrard Rice was installed as vice president, replacing Andy Wilkerson, and Victor Hollis
replaced Tom Anderson as secretary and treasurer.

After the installation, the society selected a council as follows: Chairman of Spiritual Life, Andy Wilkerson; Chairman of Foreign Missions,
Sid Crane; Chairman of Religious Education and Publications, Dan Wicker; Chairman of Social Service, Archie Torrey; Chairman of Home Missions,
Joe Gammon; Chairman of Ministerial Relief, Monroe Stewart; and Chairman of Education, Rod Williams.

In the meeting which followed the inaugurations, the members discussed primarily the type of program to be given in the
future. It was decided that programs would vary from time to time with both the formal and the discussion type,
which have proved unusually interesting. These discussions will include problems which confront youth today. The society discussed the plan of
holding a joint social function with the Christian Endeavor of Queens-Chicora College. A definite date has not yet been set.
After the regular meeting, the council met for a short time to make plans for more interesting programs.

FROSH DEBATE MEET PLANNED
Team and Alternates Will Oppose Each Other Individually

The freshman debating team, composed of George Milne, Bob Kellog, Dick Kenyon, and R. W. Ramsey, with the two alternates,
Paul Marion and Jack Holland, will hold three debates on April 20 and 21. The six will debate with and
against each other. In this way, the six boys will get practice in public speaking which will help them in
their debating activities next year. It is a custom that the freshman team have no outside debates. The reasons are,
first, because opponents for freshmen teams are difficult to find, and second, because of insufficient funds.

In each debate, the boys will have different partners, and they will all get practice in debating both sides of
the proposition, which is: Resolved: That Congress should be empowered to fix minimum wages and maximum hours for industry. The
awards, probably first and second prizes, will be made by the Forensic Council. Charlie Mauze of the varsity debating team
will have charge of these freshman debates. The freshman team was selected in tryouts held last December. Several debate classes
have been held since then.

EDITOR OF ANNUAL TO BE ELECTED FOR NEXT YEAR AT END OF WEEK
Dorsett, Fant, Lafferty, Lowe, And Palmer Eligible For Position

FIVE MEN IN ELECTION
Business Manager to Be Elected in Two Weeks

Five men, Jim Dorsett, Euclid Fant, Jack Lafferty, Sam Lowe, and Gil Palmer are eligible to fill the position of
editor-in-chief of the 1937-38 Quips and Cranks. One of these five juniors will be chosen in the elections which will
be run off at the end of this week, John Abernethy, present editor of the yearbook, announced Monday. The staff
chosen by the incoming editor from the rising junior class will be the rising sophomore class, and the business manager
will be selected in about two weeks by the publications board.

Jim Dorsett, president of the junior class, is a member of the Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity and is equipment
manager of the football team next year. Euclid Fant is a member of Kappa Sigma social fraternity, and is an
associate editor of The Davidsonian. Gill Palmer is a member of Kappa Alpha social fraternity, and is also a member
of Sigma Delta Pi, honorary Spanish fraternity. Jack Lafferty belongs to the Pi Kappa Alpha social fraternity, and is this
year a junior track manager. Sam Lowe is a junior wrestling manager and is also a sergeant in the ROTC.

LILY PONS TO APPEAR ON RADIO WEDNESDAY
Popular Soprano On Program With Kostelanetz

With the exception of two or three guest-star performances, the lovely voice of Lily Pons has not been heard over
the air for nearly a year. Miss Pons has had an exceptionally busy year making pictures and concert tours, but
she is returning to the Chesterfield program on Wednesday, April 14. The combination of Miss Pons and the orchestra of
Andre Kostelanetz has always been a favorite with millions of radio listeners, and that general opinion seems to be that
the new program will be something worth waiting for. While Lily Pons has no idea of abandoning the famous operatic
arias with which she has thrilled her many listeners, it is understood that she has plans to render many of
the lighter variety of songs in her own individual style. In her latest picture, “That Girl From Paris,” Miss Pons
sang the Blue Danube in swing tempo and it proved very popular. Andre Kostelanetz will have his famous chorus, whose
specialty is in the brilliant and original arrangement of harmony. They have featured many folk songs, as well as popular
classics, and many radio fans are anxiously awaiting the return of this popular program.

Davidson Theatre
Thurs-Fri, April 15-16
PERSONAL PROPERTY—
Saturday, April 17
OFF TO THE RACES—
Monday, April 19
INTERNES CAN’T TAKE MONEY—
Tuesday, April 20
A FAMILY AFFAIR—
Wed-Thurs. April 21-22
WAIKIKI WEDDING—

Robert Taylor and Jean Harlow in a high-powered romance
Slim Summerville upsets everything in this picture
Internes and Money does not seem to click together
See this picture from the start. Works up to a fine ending
Bing Crosby, Martha Raye, and Bob Burns in a WOW of a picture which combines the Lure of the Tropics

TAKE PART IN BIBLICAL DRAMA
Miss Corinne Palmer, graduate of the University of Mississippi, who is director of a Biblical drama, “The First Commandment,” which
will be produced at Davidson, is shown giving a group of students instructions.

Sigma Pi Sigma
Sigma Pi Sigma, national honorary physics fraternity at Davidson, will hold its annual election of officers Monday night, April 19.
The installation will take place at the same meeting and they will serve the remainder of the present school session
as well as next year. Retiring officers are: Bill Douglas, president; George Hornbeck, vice president; and Milton Crisp, secretary-treasurer. Sigma
Pi Sigma had its origin at Davidson in 1921, having become national since that time. Membership is based upon grades
and proficiency in physics.

Alpha Epsilon Delta
Dr. Maurice L. Moore, grand secretary-historian of the national pre-medical fraternity, Alpha Epsilon Delta, spent part of Sunday on the
campus of Davidson College. He was en route to a meeting of the American Chemical Society at Chapel Hill. Dr.
and Mrs. Moore were entertained at an informal reception at the Sigma Phi Epsilon house. Several matters of vital concern
to the local chapter were discussed by Dr. Moore. He suggested projects such as visits to hospitals and medical schools.

“D” Club
The next “D” club meeting on Tuesday night, April 20, will feature an election of officers to serve the remainder
of the present school term as well as next year. Hunter, the retiring president, stated that the new officers would
be installed immediately to take charge of the spring initiation. This induction of new members will take place within the
next few weeks, as soon as it is determined what members of the spring athletic teams will be eligible.This initiation
will be the second of the year. It is private, although some features have been public in years past. The
initiation of new members into the International Relations Club will take place sometime during the coming week. At this point,
Tyler, the local chapter president, will preside. Fifteen new men have been issued bids, and it is expected that most
of them will accept. As an added feature of this meeting, the new men will read papers prepared by themselves
concerning some phase of the work of the International Relations Club.

Phi Gams Are Fifth Section Hosts

Delegates Represent Five Universities of South

Last weekend, the Delta Kappa chapter of Phi Gamma Delta was host to a convention of the Fifth Section of
this fraternity here at Davidson. Members from chapters at the University of North Carolina, the University of Richmond, the University
of Virginia, and Washington and Lee composed the delegation which attended the convention. Tyler Haynes of Richmond, Va., who is
the newly elected Section Chief, was a special guest.

The convention began on Saturday morning with a meeting at the Phi Gam house where various problems relative to college
fraternities were discussed. Delegates from the various chapters discussed such problems as rushing, freshman training, chapter house rules, extracurricular activities,
inter-chapter relations, and finances. This formal meeting continued until 4 o'clock in the afternoon, interrupted, of course, for lunch. After
the meeting was adjourned, the visitors attended the Davidson baseball game with N. C. State.

Saturday night, at 8:30, the host chapter entertained with an informal dance at the Woman's Club in Charlotte. Girls from
Winston-Salem, Greensboro, Concord, and Charlotte attended the dance. Melodic music was furnished by Chubby King and his Davidson orchestra. Dr.
and Mrs. W. P. Cumming of the Davidson faculty acted as chaperones for this affair. This was the formal conclusion
of the convention, although many of the delegates stayed over until Sunday afternoon.

White Drug Store
"Davidson’s Oldest and Best"

BAND MEMBERS TO LEAVE SOON ON TRIP SOUTH

Pfohl’s Group to Give Concerts in Greenville, Atlanta, and Morganton Before Returning—Also to Play In Centennial of North Carolina Schools

BAND TO PLAY MONDAY AT CAROLINA THEATER

Glee Club and Orchestra to Appear on Program of North Carolina Federation of Music Clubs Convention

Beginning Monday, April 19, the Davidson College musical band will start a period of intense activity. The two principal features
of the band’s work will be the celebration in connection with the Centennial of the Public Schools of North Carolina,
and a trip to Atlanta, Ga.

On the evening of April 19, the band will play in two stage presentations at the Carolina theater in Charlotte.
Officials of the theater have designated this night as “Davidson Night.” The band will leave Thursday, April 22, for Burlington,
N. C., and on Friday will go on to Durham, N. C. In the Duke Stadium, the Davidson band will
take part with other bands from four of the “Big Five,” and with bands from high schools all over the
state in celebration of the schools’ centennial.

Monday, April 26, the band will start on the tour, taking them to Atlanta. They will stop at Greenville, S.
C., on the way to the Georgia city, then after leaving Atlanta will journey to Morganton, N. C., and from
there back to Davidson.

The orchestra and Glee Club will present a program in Belmont tomorrow night. On Friday, these two groups will go
to Hickory, where they will take part in the College Night program of the State Federation of Music Clubs Convention.
In Hickory, the Glee Club will sing in a mixed chorus with the Queens-Chicora College Glee Club. These concerts are
the last that the Davidson musical organizations will present away from the campus this term, the remainder of the semester
being taken up with radio programs and preparations for the Centennial.

Bloody Business—
Barber—"Was your tie red when you came in here?"
Customer—"No, it wasn't."
Barber—“Gosh, I must have cut your throat.”

NATIONAL SPRING HATS
National Hat Shops
108 So. Tryon St.
Complete Line of Hats, Shirts, and Ties

Automatic machines fill sterilized bottles and seal them airtight. Nothing you eat or drink is more carefully protected. Buy Coca-Cola
in the convenient 6-box from your dealer.

ICE-COLD COCA-COLA IS EVERY PLACE ELSE, IT BELONGS IN YOUR ICE-BOX AT HOME
COCA-COLA BOTTLING CO.
Address
Telephone No.
