Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, MAY 19, 1937

The Davidsonian
Founded By the Class of 1915
1936 Member 1937
Associated Collegiate Press
Distributors of Collegiate Digest
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON Ave. NEW YORK, N.Y.
CHICAGO - BOSTON - SAN FRANCISCO
LOS ANGELES - PORTLAND - SEATTLE

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879

Editor-in-Chief .......... DICK VOWLES
Business Manager ....... R. H. ROBINSON
Managing Editor ........ Ovid Bell
Managing Editor ........ Joe Calvin
Managing Editor ........ Wesley Coghill
Managing Editor ........ Terrell Porter
Managing Editor ........ Perry Sloan
Sports Editor ........... Bill Marques
Associate Editor ........ Owen Cooke
Associate Editor ........ Sam Cothran
Associate Editor ........ Euclid Cate
Associate Editor ........ Hector McGeachy
Associate Editor ........ Yates Parson
Art Editor .............. Sam Ryburn
Copy Reader ............ Henry Baker

BUSINESS STAFF
Wilson Lowrance ...... Circulation Manager
Ralph Chandler ....... Circulation Manager
Charles Moore ........ Collection Manager
J. M. Hall ............ Advertising Manager
J. W. White .......... Asst. Business Manager

The great essentials of happiness are something to do, something to love, and something to hope for.—Dr. Chalmers.

DAVIDSON CENTENNIAL
Celebration of the 100th anniversary of the founding of Davidson College will be an event of wide interest among the former students and friends of this institution as well as in church circles generally throughout the South, the Presbyterian Church in particular.

Davidson College has a record that is set like a sparkling gem in the history of Christian education in America. From small and obscure beginnings, it has come to take its place among the foremost institutions of its regimen in America, yielding to none in soundness of teaching and depth of scholarship. Davidson, century-old that it is, continues fresh and buoyant and contemporaneous. It has not allowed age to dim its luster nor to lay the dead hand of the past upon its living heart of the present.

It is up with the time in every phase of educational life that ministers to a well-rounded and complete development of manhood, physical, mental, and moral. And being an institution that continues to have its face fixed upon higher reaches in the future and broader horizons and greater achievements, Davidson has incorporated along with the basic curricula of other days whatever is required in this regard to keep itself in tune with modern demands. It has its so-called fads, whatever those are, but it knows where to put and to keep them—in a place of secondary and contributing importance. It has neither run wild with the speculations of the new knowledge nor with the jazz tempo of the educational frivolities. Davidson yet lays the emphasis where the emphasis was first laid by the Founding Fathers of the educational regime in America. It insists that a college is a place for men to fit themselves adequately for their careers and while its curriculum is designed to expand mental outlooks and to deepen intellectual perception and to sharpen the edge of the wits of man, the higher moralities and spiritual elements in human life are not forgotten. Indeed, they are magnified, as they should be in every Christian institution of higher learning and, if we may say so, as should be far more emphasized than they are in every state-supported institution of the same sort. The development of personal quality of life is its larger objective.

Davidson College is ready to celebrate its Centennial in a spirit of girding up its loins and arming itself for enlarged services during the century ahead. It is ably administered; its faculty is composed of Christian scholars; its curriculum ranks with the highest; its equipment is well-planned if not wholly adequate for its days ahead; its endowment is measurably sufficient for the status to which it has attained, but with the hold the college has taken in the imaginations of the public and in the affections of the people of the Presbyterian faith, there is no reason that Davidson should falter in its expectation of such philanthropies in the future as will enable the institution to keep step with its enlarged opportunities for educational ministry—The Charlotte Observer.

EDITORIAL STAFF

STOLEN THUNDER

Faculty Facts...
A professor is one who casts imitation pearls before real swine...
A dean is not smart enough to be a professor and too smart to be a president...
A president is not good enough to be a professor and too good to be a dean...
But the professor who comes in 10 minutes late is rare—in fact he’s in a class by himself.

To the Wall-Flowers...
Those who speak volumes usually end up on the shelf
About the only thing that can lay down on the job and get results is a hen
Not that it’s important, but there was the cannibal's daughter who liked boys best when they were stewed.

Family Medicine Chest?
Kings and Queens are great and strong.
Earls and lords are powerful, still,
But laying all jacks and jokes aside—
There's nothing potent as a pill.

They Say...
Great bluffs from little study grow
A ripe old age is nothing to brag about... consider the tomato.

LETTERS

FROM THE PRESIDENT OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE...
The members of the faculty and the student body are to have the rare privilege of acting as hosts during the Centennial Celebration. The indications are that there will be a record attendance. In fact, the prospects are that we will be taxed to the limit and beyond to provide even shelter and food for all who come. It is well for us to keep in mind that those who come will be friends of Davidson. There is no other reason for their coming. Many of them will be Alumni who love Davidson with real devotion. This is a time when students and faculty should exercise to the full the fine courtesy and hospitality for which Davidson has always been noted. Those of us who have homes should throw them wide open to those who are coming to the Centennial as guests of the College. If members of the faculty find it necessary to sleep in their attics while visitors occupy the most comfortable rooms in their homes, they should go to their attics rejoicing that they have the privilege of rendering this service to our guests and at the same time to the College. If students are called upon to shift their rooms and to crowd up a little they should do it cheerfully, counting it a privilege to show this courtesy and hospitality to Alumni who love the College enough to come hundreds of miles in order to have a part in the Centennial. In the last analysis, the College is not judged so much by its grounds and buildings and equipment as by the character and courtesy of its faculty and students. We are to have the privilege and honor of doing something that nobody ever did before and that nobody now living will ever do again, and that is to celebrate a Davidson College Centennial. Paraphrasing the words of Napoleon, a hundred years are looking down on us. Let us try to rise to the occasion with that nobility that the friends of Davidson have a right to expect of her students and faculty.
-WALTER L. LINGLE.

FROM THE TREASURER OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE...
There will be more visitors on the campus during the approaching commencement possibly than for any other year in the history of the College. There will also be more students here than usual. As the students mingle with various visitors, I would have them remember that the opinion of the College that the stranger gets from the students is a most definite and lasting one. My observation has been that the “Old Grads” that come back delight in telling twice-told tales of the pranks that probably never happened. Students also are liable to fall into the habit of telling tales which too may be exaggerated. Good stories, of course, need not be withheld, such as the one about the Freshman who on Bible examination stated that the Epistles were the wives of the Apostles. A minister, a Davidson alumnus, said in an open discussion group last commencement, that it was his observation that students returning to their homes from non-church related colleges had a more vital religion than students from the denominational colleges. He must have had some reason for forming an opinion of this kind. Is his opinion a correct one or has he been misinformed? My suggestion to the students for the approaching commencement period is that they be alert to help entertain guests of the college in every possible way and that in their discussions with the alumni and others they try to properly interpret the work and aims of the College. Personally, I like to speak a good word for our faculty, to mention our chapter of Phi Beta Kappa, to speak of the high ratings that Davidson has been given by the regional and national rating agencies. The bulletin sent out to Freshmen this year and last year entitled “Choosing Your College” has some good talking points. We can have pride in certain equipment on our campus and the way it is maintained and we certainly know of some very pressing needs. There is much to be proud of in the personality, character, conduct, and campus spirit of Davidson students, if we are not too close to these things to see the virtues that are there. With such matters as subjects for conversation there will be left very little time for stories about putting cows in the class rooms or about stealing chickens. During the commencement we shall all have many opportunities to interpret the College to eager listeners. Can we truly say that a good name is to be chosen rather than great riches? Possibly we can have both.
—I. L. JACKSON,

FROM THE ALUMNI SECRETARY
The welcome that awaits you alumni of Davidson during the Centennial celebration, June 6, 7, and 8 will be all the more generous and genuine because it has been years in the making. For a long time your alma mater has been looking forward with pleasurable excitement to this crowning event of a hundred successful years; especially during the present college years have many energies and untiring thought been turned toward those June days when Davidson's large family will be gathered back into the charmed circle on the campus. June brings rare days as we all know. But no June, no commencement season that Davidson has ever experienced has been so significant as those days that will soon be filled with happiness for thousands who are expected to come here. Davidson is ready to welcome you all—alumni and friends alike. There will be a program designed to interest everyone. The welcome sign will be hung out all over the campus. Old friends will meet again and recall with glowing pride those hallowed days of yore. Old memories will burn again. New friends will be made. Many alumni are expected to arrive Saturday, June 5, for the three-day program that officially begins the following day. On Saturday the executive committee of the Alumni Association and theAlumni Council will meet. On Sunday Dr. Harris E. Kirk, noted Presbyterian minister of Baltimore, will deliver the baccalaureate sermon. That afternoon there will be a band concert on the campus and that evening Dean Christian Gauss of Princeton University will deliver an address. Greetings will be brought from many colleges and universities Monday, June 7, at the morning program. Dr. William Joseph Martin, president emeritus of Davidson, will speak. The annual alumni luncheon will be held out-of-doors on the campus at noon and at 3 o'clock all classes will have reunions in Chambers building classrooms. The central entertainment feature of the Centennial will be the pageant to be produced on Richardson field that evening at 8:15 o'clock. Reserved seats can be bought now by applying to M. W. McGill of the college. This pageant promises to eclipse anything of a similar nature ever attempted in this section. On Tuesday, June 8, the final day of the celebration, graduation exercises will be held. Dr. Gordon Jennings Laing of the University of Chicago will be the speaker. After that come the traditional lowering of the class flag and the singing of “College Ties.” Davidson's students are expected to stay here 100 per cent strong for this celebration. It is theirs, for they make up the college and the Centennial would not be complete without them. To them the Alumni Association extends greetings with the sincere hope that they will be here in full force for this biggest birthday party in Davidson's history. -CONRAD FREDERICK SMITH.

FROM THE PAGEANT DIRECTOR ... My job of pageant-master always entails many duties; at Davidson these duties have developed into unusual privileges and pleasant associations. For that part of my job which involved the research and writing of the Centennial Pageant gave me the great privilege of becoming thoroughly acquainted with a consecrated idea—the Davidson idea; of sensing its reason, of feeling relief at its birth, of watching breathlessly its growth, of sympathizing with it in its struggles, of feeling great satisfaction at its fruition, and of cheering at its coming of age. And in organizing and rehearsing the pageant, I have had the great pleasure of coming into working contact with the faculty and students, who are the banner-bearers of the Davidson idea today, those who maintain in such gentlemanly fashion the maturity of that idea. Those privileges and associations are such to lead me to hope I may soon meet up again with these students and faculty, and the Davidson idea, individually and collectively. THEODORE VIEHMAN.

FROM THE CENTENNIAL CAMPAIGN MANAGER ... Men of Davidson College are co-operating ninety-six per cent in the movement to build a Greater Davidson.

DAVIDSON THEATER
Wed.-Thur. May 19-20
THE WOMAN I LOVE
A story of stolen love in a thundering war drama. Two thrilling stars, Miriam Hopkins and Paul Muni, are hurled into each other's arms by a Hell of hate around them and a Heaven of forbidden dreams in their hearts.

Friday, May 21
THEY GAVE HIM A GUN
Spencer Tracy, Gladys George, and Franchot Tone in a thrilling love story on the battle front. This is one of the best war pictures of the year, and closely resembles “The Big Parade.”

Saturday, May 22
GIRL FROM SCOTLAND YARD
Karen Morley, Robert Baldwin, and Katherin Alexander in a story of a strange death ray that will give you mystery in the air as well as on the ground.

Monday, May 24
A STAR IS BORN
Janet Gaynor and Fredrick March in one of the latest Hollywood productions. See this picture and find out for yourself how a girl seeks fame in the movies.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE'S CENTENNIAL
“Davidson College for a Greater Second Century of Service.” Ninety-five subscribers have contributed more than $33,000 to help Davidson, in her Centennial Movement, erect new buildings which she so vitally needs. To date only the men of Georgia Dormitory and North and South Barracks have been given the opportunity, generally, to make their subscriptions, though a few have come in from Rumple, East and the Eagle’s Nest. Georgia Dormitory with thirty-eight subscribers has given a total of $1,598, while North and South Barracks with 44 subscribers have contributed $1,358. Davidson College after a century of splendid service to the nation and particularly to the South is now engaged in increasing her material resources to meet the needs of her second century. Her students are responding in true “Davidson Fashion” and with the well-known Davidson Spirit. There is no more permanent nor more profitable investment a man can make than in an educational institution of Davidson’s calibre. Her ideals of Christian Character and her high educational standards have yielded, and will continue to yield, rich dividends. Surely every Davidson Man wants to have a part in perpetuating and improving the work of Davidson College. — MALCOLM LOCKHART, JR.

FROM THE PRESIDENT OF THE CENTENNIAL CLASS... I have a few words which I wish to direct mainly to the Seniors. Slightly less than three weeks from today, we shall be gathered in circular fashion around the flag pole. As we sing together the last few lines of “College Ties Will Ne’er Be Broken,” our class numerals will be lowered, and detached from the pole. Then with a rush of comprehension, many of us will realize what very likely will never have occurred to us before—our four years together are at an end. Almost immediately after this flag-lowering ceremony, there will be a rush to turn in caps and gowns, to get our baggage ready and thrown into family cars, and then off with our folks. It is over. Our college career is finished. And for the first time, with almost sickening suddenness, we will realize what that means. So I think it appropriate to give a bit of advanced warning this year, so that we shall have ample opportunity to think through several important things between now and that eventful day. First, the significance of our college friendships deserves some consideration. Many of us will part never to meet again; others, to meet rarely even though we may have been the best of friends here in college. A rather startling thought perhaps, but one that will undoubtedly be true, at least to some extent. So I suggest that we make the most of the remaining days to cement the bonds of friendship even firmer than they have been cemented, so that time and distance will not weaken them. Along this same line, I urge that during these last few days, all old grudges be discarded; that you go to that person whom you've had cause to dislike, and let him know that you feel kindly toward him. Next, I suggest that we use a few of our spare moments in forming some definite resolves about our religious habits. We might be repaid if we took stock of ourselves, to see whether or not we wish to continue some of these habits we have fallen into. For example, going to the compulsory Vespers in the evening has furnished a convenient excuse to many of us to sleep through Sunday School and Church in the morning. These two services in most churches are the most important ones of the day, and the most helpful ones, so I urge you, if you have slipped in this respect to mend your habits immediately after graduation. If you have discontinued your prayer life and your daily private devotionals because of the distractions of dormitory life, I appeal to you to begin even today and rectify this serious omission. And with this one final thought, I close. On the whole, college life at Davidson has presented only a few of the temptations with which we shall be confronted in real life. It has been a comparatively sheltered existence. Our fight against the worldly evils has scarcely begun. We should begin immediately, if we have not already done so, to fortify ourselves in Christ’s strength to meet them. —WADE BOGGS.

SWEEPING CAMPUS By AL CADE
Once there was a patriarch named David. He was a centenarian but the vigor of youth coursed through his veins for his life had been given to Youth. His reputation for integrity of character, development of intellect, and unconquerable spirit was known and respected throughout the land. Now David had lived the life of a Christian gentleman, contributing immeasurably to the community in goods and services. His sons, of whom there were many, had gone out from his bosom to establish reputations for themselves; thus reflecting glory upon their father, the venerable David. The patriarch, although his life had been long and eventful, was really just beginning an era of progress and service, for his one-hundredth anniversary was the first of many to come. David's home, once adequate, was beginning to fall into decay and becoming too antiquated and constricting for his ever-increasing family of sturdy, ambitious sons. He began casting about for a means of supplementing the accommodations of his household, for an income which had formerly supplied his needs was incapable of bearing this additional burden. Now David was sorely troubled and in a quandary as to how he should be able to replace his inadequate and antiquated buildings, and continue progressing in his commendable and essential work. But the wrinkles of worry were soon erased from his brow, for the sons whom he had nurtured and sent out into the world heard of his problem and, in their loyalty and devotion, assisted the patriarch in his great work with gifts both large and small; for each wanted a part in the enterprise to the extent of his ability. And David rejoiced and was exceedingly glad and his Centennial was one to be remembered for years to come. And his great work increased in quality and magnitude, a living and immortal monument to those sons and friends who had, through their unselfish giving, made it possible to continue.

HOEY WILL BE HONORED (Continued from Page 1)
dent emeritus of Davidson; Dr. Henry Louis Smith; Rev. Harris E. Kirk, D.D., of Baltimore, Maryland, pastor of Franklin Street Presbyterian Church; Rev. J. C. Massey, D.D., Hampden Sydney, Va., professor of Bible, Hampden-Sydney College, Doctor of literature; Rev. P. H. Carmichael, professor in Columbia Theological Seminary, Decatur, Ga.; Rev. L. J. Sherrill, dean of Presbyterian Theological Seminary, Louisville, Ky.; Rev. W. T. Thompson, D.D., professor of religious education, Union Theological Seminary, Richmond, Va. Doctor of sciences: Dr. G. H. Cartledge, professor of chemistry, University of Buffalo, N. Y.; Dr. Fred W. Rankin, Lexington, Ky.; Lieut.-Col. James S. Simmons, M. D., Boston, Mass. Doctor of pedagogy: Dean M. W. Brown, Presbyterian College, Clinton, S.C. Doctor of Divinity: Rev. Frank F. Baker, president of Gammon Institute, Lavras, Brazil; Rev. W. M. Elliott, pastor of Druid Hills Presbyterian Church, Atlanta, Ga.; Rev. Joseph K. Hall, pastor of Goshen Presbyterian Church, Belmont; Rev. John R. Hay, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church, Hickory, N. C.; and Rev. John A. Redhead, Jr., Charlotte.

SELF GOVERNMENT (Continued from Page 1)
rebelled and eventually struck against the rigid new administration. At other times during the history of the college the Literary Societies, one time ruling factions on the campus, petitioned the faculty to allow them to run their own societies and to mete out justice as they saw fit; this system was not without its advantages. It is evident that the publicized and efficient student government is not a success due merely to chance but that it is in reality a material expression of a feeling and a spirit which has existed from the beginning of Davidson.