WEDNESDAY, MAY 12, 1937.

Episodes in Life of Ney To Be Given Over WSOC will Be Third in Broadcast Series Depicting Dramatic Events

GIVEN EACH THURSDAY

Script Written By Cates and McKnight

Peter Stuart Ney, designer of the Davidson College seal, is the subject of the third dramatic episode of the Davidson broadcast series over Station WSOC in Charlotte. The sketch will be given on Thursday, May 13, at 1:30 P.M. The episode will open with Marshal Ney’s trial in France and the execution scene. Then the chief events in the life of Peter Stuart Ney will be portrayed. Though given as a short play, the outstanding arguments for and against the identity of Marshal Ney and Peter Stuart Ney are interwoven with the action.

The story of Peter Stuart Ney has recently aroused much popular interest because of the popular biography on the subject by LeGette Blythe of The Charlotte Observer staff and because of the proposed attempt of Mr. Allison and others of Charlotte to exhume the body of Peter Stuart Ney at Third Creek Presbyterian Church.

The script for the broadcast was written by C. A. McKnight and A. T. Cates, in collaboration, after a thorough study of the books and documents in the Davidson library. The episode presented last week dealt with the founding of the college and the manual labor revolt. The script for the sketch was written by Gibson Smith and Hal Overton. The dramatis personae consisted of Wilbur Edwards, narrator; Professor Johnston, announcer; Tyler Port, chairman; J. S. Brown, President Morrison; Richard Vowles, Mr. Pharr; Dr. Cummings, Colonel Davidson; Sidney Crane, Mr. Sparrow; Walt Dickson, Colonel Allison; Bill Mellwinen, Dr. Robinson; Locke Vass, Overseer; C. K. Malone, Bradley, a student; Hulen and Finley, freshmen; Jack Branch, Colonel Mueller; and J. D. Allen, “Bull” Lassiter.

Science Group Hear Cameron

Davidson Represented By Six Professors at Academy Of Science Meeting

Six members of the Davidson faculty attended a meeting of the North Carolina Academy of Science held Friday and Saturday, May 7th and 8th at Catawba College. Those representing Davidson were Dr. J. M. Douglas, Prof. O. J. Thies, Prof. W. N. Mebane, Prof. W. L. Porter, Prof. Avery Patton, Prof. W. K. Fulcher, and Dr. H. B. Arbuckle. Because of the recent meeting of the American Chemical Society, the chemical section of the academy did not meet. However, a number of papers on Biology and Physics were presented to the delegates.

One of the features of the convention was a paper read to the group by Dr. Cameron, Professor of Chemistry at the University of North Carolina. Dr. Cameron explained in his address how the whole stalk of the cotton plant, instead of only part, may be utilized.

Davidson High Group Gives Final Program

The members of the Davidson High School orchestra presented the final recital of the current school year on last Wednesday evening in the banquet hall of Chambers Building. Mr. Warren P. Babcock was the director. Five numbers were rendered by the entire orchestra, “The Emperor Waltz,” “Pizzicato Polka,” “The Gypsy Trail Overture,” and two numbers consisting of ballet music and pastoral dance. Solos were rendered by Catherine Cowan, Marion Kuhn, Margaret Williams, Charles Armstrong, Edward Erwin, Wallace Gamble, Price Gwynn, Shirley Parker, Edwin Shewmake, George and Wat Withers, and Lewis and Bin Wood.

SIGMA UPSILON HOLDS INSTALLATION MEETING: HOOD GIVES ADDRESS

Barrow, Fant, Kiesewetter, Stair and Dade Chosen to Be Officers For New Year

MRS. CUMMING HOSTESS

Dr. Cumming, Scott, and Ryburn Contribute to Program

On last Wednesday evening, May 5, Sigma Upsilon, national literary fraternity, held its last meeting at the home of Dr. and Mrs. W. P. Cumming. New officers were installed at this meeting. The incoming officers for the year are Wade Barrow, President; Billy Kiesewetter, Secretary; Euclid Fant, Treasurer; Fred Stair, Steward; and Fitzhugh Dade, Chairman of the Program Committee. Dr. Hood was guest speaker for this occasion. He talked on the subject of an acquaintance with Sir Arthur Quiller-Couch, the famous English literary personage. Sam Ryburn read a short story on a mountain feud and love. A particularly interesting feature of the program was the reading of a Centennial Ode by Dr. Cumming which he had composed for the coming event. This was read to music which had been composed especially for the event by Kenneth Scott. The meeting was concluded with a special social period in which Mrs. Cumming was the charming hostess, serving delicious refreshments.

STUDENTS REGISTER TO MOVE EXAMINATIONS UP

Final examinations for this semester have been moved up three days and therefore the period for spring term exams will be from May 24th to June 2nd, inclusive. This needed change was accomplished through the co-operation of students and college administration in order to create a three-day vacancy between spring exams and commencement. During this period, members of the pageant cast will have free time for concentrated practice. In chapel last Wednesday, Professor Fleagle offered the student body this chance to have examinations moved up three days if three hundred and fifty would agree to stay on the campus three days and help make the centennial celebration a bigger success. Nearly four hundred students showed their enthusiastic approval of this plan by signing up within the 24-hour specified limit.

BLYTHE WILL ATTEND MIDDLEBURY COLLEGE

Spanish Scholars Are Pledged To Speak Nothing But That Language

Professor Blythe will attend the Spanish school of Middlebury College during the coming summer, he has announced. This college, located in Middlebury, Vermont, is outstanding among language schools the world over and has, in the words of Professor Blythe, “attracted increasing attention from leading American educators.” The uniqueness in this school’s method of teaching lies in the fact that no elementary courses are taught, and from the day of their arrival students are pledged to speak the foreign language even in individual dormitory rooms. All lectures will be given in Spanish.

DRUGS CANDIES

DAVIDSON'S OLDEST and BEST

WHITE DRUG STORE

SODAS TOILETRIES

DR. LINGLE WILL SPEAK SUNDAY

Lingle to Hold Two Services At Presbyterian Church In Greensboro

HONORS REV. WILLIAMS

Also Speaks at Historic Old Center Church

Dr. Walter L. Lingle will speak for two services at the Presbyterian Church of the Covenant in Greensboro, N. C. on next Sunday, May 16. These Sunday services will be a celebration for Reverend R. Murphy Williams who has held the pastorship at the Church of the Covenant for 31 years. Dr. Lingle will address the congregation that morning and at a special service to be held at 5 o'clock that afternoon. The afternoon service will feature the breaking of the ground for the Religious Education Building. Harry Barton of that city has drawn the plans for the addition and Dr. Harry E. Tralle of New York City is consultant. Mr. Williams is a very prominent alumnus of Davidson, being a member of the class of 1896. He has always taken an active civic part in Greensboro since he became a member of their community. For this service he was awarded in 1933 the annual plaque for Unselfish Civic Service. This distinguished Mr. Williams as the “first citizen” of Greensboro.

Last Sunday Dr. Lingle was guest speaker at the old Center Church which is located near Mount Mourne. This church is one of the historic Presbyterian Churches.

Davidson Men Attend Rally

Brown, Walker, Williams, Woodward Attend Volunteer Conference

A delegation consisting of four Davidson boys, Rodman Williams, David Woodward, “Boo” Walker, and Frank Brown, attended the annual State Student Volunteer Conference held this past week at the First Presbyterian Church in Winston-Salem. Fifty students from twelve different colleges also attended, in one of the most inspiring conferences of this group ever held. The main business was the election of a new executive committee for the next year. David Woodward from Davidson was elected.Woodward was one of those selected to serve on this group. Others selected were: Miss Marjorie Glenn, of W. C. U. N. C., chairman; Miss Otha Parnell, Winston Salem Teachers College; and Miss Henderson, Johnson C. Smith University.

Program
The meeting lasted three days — from Friday morning through Sunday afternoon. The main features of the program were as follows: The program opened with a play by the group from Salem College — “How the Light Came” — giving the personal reactions of the disciples just before the resurrection of Christ, and how he inspired them afterwards. Friday evening Professor G. L. Johnston, of the faculty at Winston Salem Teachers College, spoke on the subject, “The Challenge of Christianity to American Youth.” Saturday morning Dr. J. L. Cunningham, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Winston-Salem, conducted the devotionals. The Rev. Houston Patterson of Sutsicn, China, was the main speaker. He developed the theme of the conference, “Christ and the World Today,” giving a Chinese setting. Saturday evening he led a discussion (Continued on Page 6).

SUMMER POSITIONS FOR STUDENTS EARN $40 to $75 A WEEK
You can use your educational training and earn extra money this summer. This unusual opportunity for educational extension work in the home is extremely interesting. Many students have been exceptionally successful and have found it the solution to their financial problems. Write for full details and proof of results at once.
THE JOHN C. WINSTON COMPANY
HOME EXTENSION DEPT., 1012 Arch St. Philadelphia.

THE DAVIDSONIAN
FRIVOLITY RULES AT BOWERY BALL
Every costume imaginable could be seen at the Bowery Ball Saturday night. Perhaps among the most humorous and original of the outfits were those shown above. Billy Masters, of Okahumpka, Fla., is seen in the carriage and Bill Birmingham, Jr., of Trenton, Tenn., is pushing the “baby.” Misses Susanna Millwee (left) and Merrell Fetner are the girls. — (Courtesy Charlotte News).

STUDENT BODY ELECTS Y’ BOARD OF CONTROL
Walker M. Shetrard and "Boo" Gaw were named to posts on the Y. C. A. Board of Control for next year by the student body in a close vote. Walker defeated War- ren Wicker after all candidates had been eliminated. Walker led with 238 votes, Rice had 208, and Gaw ran a close third with 198. The two rising junior members, Wicker and Monroe, have been named to the board along with Watson Street and Hector McGeachy. Dr. Tom Arbuckle, Professor of Chemistry, will again represent the faculty as he has done since the beginning of the Y. M. C. A. on the Davidson campus 24 years ago.

BROWN GIVEN AWARD IN COLLEGE STORY CONTEST
Lynwood Brown of the centennial class has been notified last week that an article of his has been awarded honorable mention in a contest sponsored by the Story Magazine. Brown's article was a short story dealing with Davidson life and was one of two articles that were entered in the contest from Davidson. As a result of his story, Brown has received a letter from the editors of the magazine sponsoring the contest asking him to submit more.

Good Printing Pays
STANDARD PRINTING
117 Garland Court, Charlotte, N. C.

DAVIDSON MAN YEARNS WINGS
Ansley Watson of Class of '33 Will Receive Reserve Commission
STARTS DUTIES IN JULY
Flying Cadet Ansley Watson, graduate of Davidson College in the class of '33, will receive his “Wings” at the Air Corps Advanced Flying School, Kelly Field, Texas, on June 9, 1937, and will be given the rating of Airplane Pilot. On June 30, 1937, he will receive his Reserve Commission as second lieutenant in the Air Corps, and on July 1, 1937, will be ordered to active duty. On May 27 he will make his graduation flight from Kelly Field, Texas, to the University of Arkansas, in Fayetteville, Arkansas; then to the University of Oklahoma, in Oklahoma City; to the University of Missouri, Columbia, and then back to Kelly Field. After graduating from Davidson in 1933 with a B. S. degree in mathematics, Flying Cadet Watson attended Jefferson Medical College in Philadelphia during the 1935-36 session. This year he has served as a Corporal in the Flying Cadet Detachment. Cadet Watson, son of Mrs. J. E. Watson, makes his home at 741 North Main Street, Anderson, S. C. Information concerning the Flying Cadet will be available in the Davidson College Library.

PRINCETON PROFESSOR (Continued from Page 1)
says: "Dr. Cone is one of the most able students of government, and particularly of political theory, whom we have turned out in many years. He has an extraordinarily acute and erudite mind.”

THE PALM BEACH CRAVAT
We say YOUR 1937 tie, because we know this is the tie you'll choose if you're looking for smartness. Usually, an advertisement like this one does not consider the importance of the quality of its product. Have us place your crest or monogram on the envelopes, bill heads, blotters, letter heads, typewriter letters, invoices, enclosures, etc. Call us for good printing as your goods.