WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 1937 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Five

MEMBERS OF ‘D’ CLUB PLAN TO ABOLISH ALL INFORMAL INITIATIONS IN RECENT MEETINGS

Traditional Comical Initiation Will Be Replaced By Formal

PLANNING ATHLETIC DAY

Proposal Made For Promotion Of Minor Sports

The “D” Club held its regular meeting on Tuesday night, Feb. 16, in the “D” Club room. The outstanding feature
of the meeting was the decision to abolish all “horseplay” at initiations. The traditional comical initiation will be replaced by
a strictly formal program of initiation at chapel, more on the order of O. D. K. tap day programs. From
now on, there will be no more skirts, no more molasses slinging, and no more fashion parades. Freshmen will be
permitted to safely leave their rooms on occasions of “D” Club initiations in the future. The day of torture has
been ruled out.

In addition to this step, a proposal was made for the promotion of minor sports at Davidson, including the establishment
of B teams in the minor sports. Efforts will be made to extend coaching facilities in these sports. Managers and
captains of the specific teams are to more or less collaborate in an effort to bring more stress to bear
on their particular sports. Further discussion followed, concerning “D” Club activities, in an effort to extend the influences and actions
to a broader field during the coming year.

The organization is making plans for the coming Athletic Day program in chapel, at which time medals and awards will
be made to students for merit in athletics at Davidson.

CHEMURGIC COUNCIL WILL HAVE MEETING

To Plan Advancement of Industry In South

Mr. Carl B. Fritsche, managing director of the Farm Chemurgic Council, visited here last week to announce to members of
the faculty a conference to be held in Macon, Ga., on April 9th and 10th. Mr. Fritsche talked to a
group of the faculty and was invited by Prof. J. P. Williams. This conference, said Mr. Fritsche, is to take
up industrial problems and to look forward to the advancement of industry in the twelve southern states. He showed the
four most important and interesting methods of advancement of industrial progress in the south.

Mr. Fritsche gave as the four coming industries of the south: First, the growth of the tung tree. One hundred
million acres of these will be planted in southern states and will yield about $60 an acre after six years.
Second, he said that the slash pine paper industry, as established by Dr. Herty, of Savannah, Ga., would help the
farmers of the south. Forty-three million dollars will be spent on these, and they will yield the southern farmer approximately
$40 an acre. Third, Mr. Fritsche said that starch factories are to be established throughout the south. One (Continued on
Page 6)

HELPS PREVENT MANY COLDS

Especially designed aid for nose and upper throat, where most colds start. Vicks Va-TRO-NOL

Regular Size ...30¢ Double Quantity 50¢

DAVIDSON TRUSTEES IN INFORMAL SESSION

Above are pictured prominent trustees of Davidson College as they met for an informal parley on the walk before Chambers
building just prior to the annual session of the Trustees of Davidson College. They are left to right: LUNSFORD RICHARDSON,
of New York City; DR. WALTER L. LINGLE, President of Davidson; DR. R. A. DUNN, of Charlotte, and chairman of
the Board; and SMITH RICHARDSON, head of the Vick Chemical Co. Last fall (Davidson Staff Photo) the Richardson brothers gave
Davidson a new addition to Richardson Field. The picture was snapped last Wednesday at the noon hour just before the
trustees convened for lunch in the Banquet Hall of Chambers building. The Trustees heard extensive plans last week for the
celebration of the Davidson Centennial to be held in conjunction with the Commencement Exercises.

LITERARY SOCIETY SETS PLAN IN MOTION

Large Number of Men Initiated at Regular Meeting Last Night

The Philanthropic Literary Society at its regular meeting last night set in motion a plan it had adopted for reorganization
of the society. The plan included the sending of bids to become members of Phi to a selected group of
men, at each regular meeting a thoroughly interesting though sometimes light program, the invitation to speak before the society of
members of the faculty and men from Charlotte who are leaders in their fields, and the redecoration of the Phi
Hall to make it more suitable for the meetings of the society.

About forty men who had received bids a few days previous were initiated last night. Mokey Faison recited two humorous
poems and Major Seifert gave a talk on his life in Panama, which he illustrated with a map. The program
was followed by an informal feed. The society expects to have on the program at an early date some of
the men connected with the broadcasting stations of Charlotte.

Branch And Others Promoted By ROTC Recently

Colonel Rhett issued orders for promotions in the corps of cadets. The order was read at the parade and became
effective immediately. The following men advanced: Cadet Major Jack E. Branch, to Cadet Lieutenant Colonel and Battalion Commander; Cadet Captain
Wilbur S. Edwards, to Cadet Major and Battalion Executive; Cadet First Lieutenant Edward S. Finley, to Cadet Captain and Adjutant.
The following former Cadet Second Lieutenants were made Cadet First Lieutenants: C. B. Gladden, F. H. McLean, R. H. Patterson,
and E. D. Turner.

Vegetables preserved by freezing retain better quality than those that are canned, according to Prof. Howard D. Brown, department of
horticulture and forestry at Ohio State University.

Four Davidson Students Follow Garber to Dance

Riker Renders Sacred Music

Mrs. Pfohl Is Accompanist In Sunday Concert

A concert by Mr. Franklin Riker, tenor, accompanied at the piano by Mrs. Louise Nelson Pfohl, was presented last Sunday
afternoon. The service took place in the Chambers Auditorium at the time of the usual weekly organ recital. The program
was as follows: In Native Worth, by Haydn; There is a Green Hill Far Away, by Gounod; My Heart Ever
Faithful, by Bach; The Voice in the Wilderness, by John P. Scott; How Beautiful Upon the Mountains, by Flaxington Harker;
and Handel's Largo, Trust in the Lord. Mr. Riker is well known here as teacher of voice for Davidson. It
was announced that Professor Thane Macdonald, of the Davidson music department, will present an organ recital next Sunday, Feb. 28,
in Chambers Auditorium.

DR. LINGLE TO SERVE AS COLLEGE TRUSTEE

Converse College Plans to Obtain Services of Carolina Educators

At a recent meeting of the board of Trustees of Converse College, Dr. T. W. Lingle of the Davidson faculty
was elected as a member of the board. Dr. Lingle’s appointment was in accordance with their plan to obtain the
services of several educators from the Carolinas. The present personnel of the board consists largely of business and professional men
and women. On March 2, Dr. Lingle will speak to the Rotarians of Spartanburg on some of our international relations.
For several years he has been invited annually to speak to this group on similar themes.

Make Davidson's Centennial Program a Big Success.

PATRONIZE DAVIDSON’S ONLY 5 and 10

SOUTHERN 5 & 10c Store

EXTRA MONEY

Of course you could use some Extra Money as well as your stomach. Then why not eat where your pocketbook
is considered?

The Little Pep Sandwich Shoppe

$5.75 MEAL TICKETS FOR $5.00

McLean, Nichols, Nash and LaRoque Journey to Asheville to Hear Garber

Jan Garber seems to have made quite an impression on the Davidson students at the Mid-Winters dances. In fact, four
of the Davidsonians were so impressed that they followed the “Idol of the Airlanes” to his appearance at Asheville last
Monday. These four boys were Bill McLean, Bob Nichols, Ben Nash, and Dick LaRoque. Part of the fun of the
little trip was dueto the spontaneity of the idea. It was already past 7 P.M. Monday night when the trip
entered their minds during one of the well-known sessions and, no sooner said than done, they were on their way.
Arriving at the dance in Asheville, the fellows were fortunate enough to obtain passes through acquaintances made while at Mid-Winters
and were soon enjoying themselves immensely. Perhaps the highlight of the evening for the boys was the moment when Jan,
who, as mentioned previously, recognized them as Davidson students, played “O Davidson,” and persuaded LaRoque and Dick to furnish the
vocalizing for the number. After playing this song, Jan again complimented Davidson College by saying that he had just finished
playing at a dance for one of the greatest schools he had ever played for. A few hours later, the
four Davidson boys were back with several pictures and souvenirs and minus about four dollars each. In appreciation of the
vocal aid which LaRoque gave the orchestra, Jan presented him with an autographed baton. “Davidson College is the greatest little
college my orchestra has ever played for!”—Jan Garber.

PFORL AND MUSICIANS CONTINUE BROADCASTS

F. L. Jackson Is Latest Subject of Interviews Conducted By Smith

Continuing the series of broadcasts, begun several weeks ago, Davidson College was on the air from 10:30 until 11:00 last
night. As with the preceding broadcasts, the program last night chiefly consisted of music by the Symphonic Band of Davidson
and included an interview with a faculty member, F. L. Jackson, in this instance, and brief news items from the
Davidson campus. The program of the band, which was under the baton of Pfohl, opened with “American Patrol,” by Meacham;
followed by “Strains from Erin,” by Caillet; “Washington Post—March,” by Sousa; “Korsakov Selections,” by Yoder; “The Whistler and His Dog,”
a novelty by Pryor; “Soul of My Savior Dear,” a hymn by Monk; and “O Davidson.”

Mr. Jackson, business manager of Davidson, was interviewed by Frederick Smith on the financial status of the college. Mr. Jackson
explained the scope of the treasurer's office and the division of the institution's funds into four distinct classes: the endowment
fund, the student loan fund, the plant fund, and the operating fund. He pointed out that in the twenty years
he has been connected with the college, the endowment has increased from $275,000 to more than one million dollars, exclusive
of the Duke Endowment. There are, he stated, 125 persons on the school payroll. He added that the college investments
have weathered the depression in good shape. Mr. Tyler Port, of the Davidson Forensic Council, presented the news of the
campus, and Wilbur Edwards, president of the student body, announced the program, as they have done in past programs.

FOR ECONOMICAL PRINTING CALL STANDARD COMPANY PRINTING 117 GARLAND COURT TELEPHONE 3-5727 CHARLOTTE, N. C.

MUSIC GROUPS TOUR

Glee Club and Orchestra Give Four Concerts

Over forty boys, members of the Davidson Glee Club and Orchestra, left on a trip to the eastern part of
the state last Sunday afternoon. Concerts, under the direction of Professors MacDonald and Pfohl of the college music department, were
presented in several towns. The first performance was given Sunday night in Southern Pines at the Church of the Wide
Fellowship. There the group was the guest of that church. On the following morning, a concert was presented at the
Southern Pines high school.

The next concert was given Monday night at Flora Macdonald College in Red Springs. The next day, the musicians visited
Maxton Presbyterian Junior College, where they played and sang at the chapel hour of that school. Leaving Maxton, the group
returned to Davidson in time for some of the members to participate in the weekly broadcast Tuesday night.

Seifert Talks In Greensboro

Addresses O. R. C. Men On “Platoon In Attack”

Major Charles W. Seifert, instructor in the advanced course in Military Science and Tactics, spoke to members of the Officers
Reserves in Greensboro on Thursday, February 18. He and other members of the R. O. T. C. department of Davidson
College are delegated to speak to officers located in surrounding cities from time to time, by order from the headquarters
of the Fourth Corps Area of the Officers Reserve Corps, in Atlanta. Members of the Officers Reserve Corps may obtain
advanced ranking in the course of these lectures, substituting the series for some of the time which would ordinarily be
served in an army training camp, the regular required time for such service being two weeks out of every three
years. Major Seifert has spoken during the past few weeks in Salisbury and (Continued on Page 6)

President’s Home Is One of Old College Buildings

Constructed in 1862 With Original Davidson College Quadrangle

WAS MORRISON’S HOME

Has Outlived New Home Built In Later Years

One of the oldest and most historic buildings on the campus, of which very little is written about, is the
President’s home on the north side of the campus. This is the residence of Dr. W. L. Lingle, President of
the college. The home was one of the original buildings, being a part of the old quadrangle, which consisted of
the Phi Hall, Eu Hall, Tammany Row, Elm Row, Oak Row, Stewart Hall, and the old Chapel, better known as
Shearer Biblical Hall. These buildings and their arrangement were planned by Dr. Robert Hall Morrison, first president of Davidson. They
were all built in 1836.

Dr. Morrison was the first occupant of the president's home, having moved there in 1837, and lived there for the
following four years. Dr. Morrison’s family consisted of eight daughters and three sons. His three sons were enlisted in the
Confederate Army while his daughters married some of the most prominent men of the South. The daughters married the following
men: General Stonewall Jackson, General Rufus Barringer, General D. H. Hill, Colonel John E. Brown, Major Alphonso Avery, and Mr.
Irwin, a businessman, who was the grandfather of Graham Irwin, a trustee of the college today.

Another president's home was built in later years. It was located just across the road in front of Shearer Hall
and was occupied by a number of presidents. However, this building was torn down in the last few years and
the brick used in its structure was used in making the walk that runs along the main highway. It is
not known the exact number of presidents that lived in this house. Dr. W. J. Martin, the predecessor to Dr.
W. L. Lingle, lived in the home now occupied by President Lingle. Dr. Martin was the last president of the
college. Before he resided there, his father, Col. W. J. Martin, a professor of chemistry, resided there. This was in
the years of 1869-1895. Colonel Martin also acted as president of the college in 1887-1888. Dr. W. L. Lingle moved
into the residence in 1929 and has lived there ever since.

These stout shoes are “tops” with men for campus and country. Here’s a sturdy, hand-sewn Crosby Square reproduction of a
custom-made original, and a national favorite for golf, tramping, and knockabout wear. You can have your choice of our complete
selection of white, dark browns, and dark grays, in rough reversed leather, with crepe soles in a matching color. Featured
at J.B. IVEY & CO.
