WEDNESDAY, OCT. 13, 1937 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Three

Youth Seeks Restoration of Entire NYA Provisions

President Roosevelt Has Set NYA Appropriation At $50,000,000

A nation-wide day of protest by organized youth in this country seeking restoration of the full Congressional appropriation of $75,000,000 for the National Youth Administration has been arranged for Wednesday by the American Youth Congress. According to the youth leaders, President Roosevelt has set the actual NYA appropriation for 1937-1938 at $50,000,000 despite the greater sum allowed by Congress at its last session. As it was explained, $1,500,000,000 was provided by Congress in the 1937 Relief Bill, with earmarkings. In the bill provisions were made for a maximum limitation of $50,000,000 which NYA, under no circumstances, could exceed for expenditure for this program according to Aubrey Williams, NYA Administrator. In the last fiscal year, NYA expenditures totaled $68,000,000. Youth leaders cite the opinion of NYA officials that the curtailment of $25,000,000 will deprive 120,000 college students, 60,000 high school students, and 60,000 jobless youth of Federal aid benefits. It was said, in New York City alone, a 20 per cent cut in college enrollment and a 10 per cent cut in high school enrollment will result.

Wednesday's program will include a survey by the American Student Union on college and high school campuses to ascertain the numerical need for NYA. Registration booths will be set up in the colleges and schools where chapters of the American Student Union exist. Out of this registration, leaders hope, will arise a union of NYA employees, the Workers Alliance of America, to take up youth grievances with NYA administrators. Following the meetings, delegations will visit Representatives in Congress to enlist their cooperation.

Davidson Man Joins Dodgers

Another Davidson athlete crashed the big leagues the other day when Charles (Buck) Marrow joined the Brooklyn Dodgers. Pat Crawford, who started at first base for the St. Louis Cardinals a few seasons back, follows Marrow. Crawford has been one of the Cardinals' leading scouts since sickness forced him from the players' list. Marrow made an auspicious start in his first game when he let the Cincinnati Reds down with six hits and shut them out for seven innings before coasting home to an 11-2 victory. “Big Buck” could have had a shutout if he had needed it to win, but the Dodgers were clubbing the ball that day, and he coasted in. “Buck” was a star performer for the Davidson diamond team back about 1930 and also cut a wide path through the ranks of the Southern heavyweight wrestlers. Since leaving Davidson, Marrow has been a leading pitcher for Louisville in the Southern League.

Halfbacks Become Mental Weaklings Says All-American

Midway Is Popular at State Fair

“Queen City” Draws Davidson Students To Nights Of Amusement

Charlotte City has had many attractions for the Davidson student body, but the greatest attraction is the Queen City Fair. The main attraction at the fair—the Midway. Ferris wheels, roller coasters, shows, and booths. Amidst all the environment, including the air filled with the strong aroma of popcorn, hamburgers, and hot dogs, could be found Davidson gentlemen with girls. Students were swarming the place, throwing balls for a dime, or at a shooting gallery taking their girls for a “thrill” ride on the chair-planes. Others could be found pitching pennies at checkerboards or looking at pictures in the ever-popular penny arcade. However, with the passing of the weekend, it is a different story. The students are now recovering from the loss of much sleep, and freshmen are busy cleaning sawdust out of the upperclassmen's shoes. Some will probably recover before the end of the week, but most of the “boys” will suffer till the “first,” until that long-awaited letter comes from home.

Band to Give Third Weekly Radio Program

Davidson College Band will give the third program in the series of weekly broadcasts for the current year on Friday evening. Two broadcasts have already been given under the direction of Professor James Christian Pfohl in the New Chambers Building. Joe McLeskey of the freshman class has risen to the position of announcer for these evening programs. McLeskey received his training in announcing over WSOC in Charlotte, the station from which the weekly programs will be heard, from 7:45 until 8:00 o'clock every Friday evening. The program last Friday evening was one entirely followed by “Victor Dame,” from Georgia Tech and many other popular college songs. In addition to the evening broadcasts, there is a religious program every morning from 9:00 until 9:15 o'clock under the direction of Professor James MacDonald. Wade Boggs will have charge of devotional exercises. Professor MacDonald will accompany the Davidson College Quartette on the organ, with McLeskey acting as the announcer for station WSOC.

Doctor Hood Speaks

Addled-brained. That is the indictment leveled against the nation’s leading amateur sport by Frank Scully, noted author, who attributes his invalidism to the drubbing he took in school competitions. “After careful study, I have come to the conclusion that you don't have to be a half-wit to be a halfback, but if you are a halfback long enough, you will be,” he writes. Scully relates a meeting with Charlie Barrett, former all-American quarterback at Cornell and captain of the 1916 unbeaten team. Barrett was in the last stages of tuberculosis, Scully remembers just before his death. “He told me,” Scully says, “that six of that championship squad have also broken down with tuberculosis. Barrett's confession was the greatest mass indictment of varsity football I had run into up to that time.” Reporting the results of a survey he made of the leading players of twenty years ago, Scully declared in a recent issue of Liberty Magazine that many of these who weren't (Continued on Page 6)

Dr. Frazer Hood, professor of psychology at Davidson, discussed the topic “Psychology and Religion” at a meeting of the Charlotte branch of the American Association of University Women last night. Dr. Hood’s address was one of a series of lectures on religions of the world to be heard by University Women at their meetings during the year.

Don’t Be A Baldhead Try The New XERVAC DAVIDSON BARBER SHOP

Plumbing and Heating R. W. DUNCAN Phone Day 180 — Night 2028 Mooresville, N. C.

FEMININE QUOTIENT

The bevy of coeds smiling at you above are none other than: Bottom row, Janie Knox and Ella-Keen “Butch” Steel; top row, Emily Goodrum, Stella Johnston, and Louise Maxwell.

Davidson Co-eds Express Opinions on College Life Dean Sentelle Gives The Girls Pointers On Conduct As Coeds

Vowles Sets Rhodes Scholarship Deadline

Davidson boys may be pretty, but in fact, they’re not even the only male influence in the town of Davidson. We talked with coeds recently. One right and there were just a little, but they were quite to the point. The conduct of the gentlemen is like clam. They refused to give even an inkling of their feelings on that line. Those that Dr. Mc?i, Sentelle (i ber 1 i That rl (il. f 1934 1 a ” tas F t] in t te: if i jet iad A i le he he ( ( end¢ LIVE rv little ng at t He the ‘} t 1 } I c it Hy { d ‘ from t q: re fhe h Ae: at coll ie yer at BI: Phi-B Kappa, Omicron: otis Delta Kappa, G kp the pr ce art that Serra lat (rata it oul 1 to con Copydhecar Fae cea TGR; 2 ee Delta I ppa, honor oe a y j alist lity? 1 that (EUnet TH) Oh er TEE ONE any pill 2! W uso ed tq " Erun a! 1 Da | mia i cd was that they l re ' WW Paral 1 m ict lil ick 1} ns” on the campus. W con | hi tion in 1934 j that oa ‘ dark i ved a tion i the 1 th one; must have b d (W va 1 mething Wetween Dr. Sentell ere h: ay Cire fanager. At Phere nie 1 led advantage c tone Spechtt—ar— rls ha us: th d to tl Mr iph” descirb (Continued on Page 6)

DAVIDSON THEATRE
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 13
“One Mile From Heaven”
THURSDAY AND FRIDAY, OCTOBER 14-15
“Bride Wore Red”
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 16
“Life Begins In College”
MONDAY AND TUESDAY, OCTOBER 18-19
“Music For Madame”
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 20
“Women Men Marry”

Sees Jackson
Jose Iturbi Interviewed; Gives Talk
Enjoys Playing in South At Vespers
Rhett-West Marriage Is Solemnized
Davidsonian Reporter Cordially Received By World Famous Pianist
Need For Action On Modern Problems

A packed house at the + r eae ad «}, The Rev. Dr. J. W. Jackson, Raila! Ata May pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Columbia, S. C, Dr Moffet Is Minister At J Phan nce! naels: was t peaker at the Sunday Home Wedding i fags ae i pa THE DAVID. Vesper Services. Previous to The marriage yN 1X. OW Har nee ques- of the church Ann Rhett gay pales aren eats: eat Jackson held cotem: if Tee inet Festieiny rai Pp in Greenwood, S: G., on last Saturd ft on Rein aca ie a ee -e, Florida r Rat r the evening wa Dr.-H. M. Moffett he Daval ‘a, ake ‘ th chapter « I terian ( r: OU ee ie a: Mi ( 8 ‘ ge ce iV a Mr a erate. ind wave I Dr C. Pohl pr t1: 2 ‘ ch d the \pa e con: lb 7; t When I « » r 1 blem 1 est ( c I z ( t-day 1 Every lite tj torm ( ; | Rhett pave; IH peoj in iriow Vp i the speak matriag The aid of t ‘ Phe 1 is a place live M Mi: t 7 noha been pleasant nd 4g; 1 ti { ( en Weare striv- | 47 he ‘ man is M eciat $ ‘ 4 \ ire riend es Mat es t Crve h loy m, also from Deland | | ( n alty Hal G yride wore a gray suit ith | 4 1 is tt come. The easy wa a fur jacket, dubonnet shoe ode these baffling bonnet-style hat Rate indica the! e carried a bouquet of red roses | pri, al n Chr Darke of-the-valley t { : ; CAPT Me ch Phe iS attractively dec t Dr. Jacl 1 pointe it eral b S of white Whi ‘ CAUSE lack oof faith in our dahlia ibe roses, atid an_alta aya tii dern orld It human selt- of palm milax, and white dahlia | Hiei iticieney wl to betore which the couple were mar al fot’ tha the sense when ried yey’ ne oR woblems a lift \iter the ceremony et sup “A te oft wt 4 ere ( erve \b five +} tith t fear Vt resent t reat \\ A il a ‘ her n VOre n (eyes; ‘A nt awhiel i at kk ’ ‘ I fa t witl \iter t l Iv we! ea 1 fang: . | ther part of h erm lati ) home in De- | 2! ener Ms os Dien CN] ned the need for) | | l vite November 1: I ind ( lite aom Ke 3 u past r 1 deeds, he | e said that he was going to New reser epend Dr Ovi Harding \ k that night to play for a t ibl \ i tl ext night « r the rt ETA fereny: Defends Latin t ra ite et with mental) > 5 é U to make their learning al Masazine, in it epteml issu! oO C al ¥ ul tw for the faith in God) printed rticle tled tin fa, hs kk a Vhich for many is a sure sugport.! : sf a i Be an Le tric Ken Iaith the discovery of a reality] Cc, R. Har nz, of t jacult hich fortitie man agaest. all) and a well-kno cla ist | ( | Ava T aa Ke oh 2 San Dr I ling in tl artic p G ‘ is it ‘ , ' thre ca Li it tl i t = \ ; H ik! | il an. appeal: : Asaee ‘| their pre 1 1. He is inclined t eve i t least irt the] ‘ as blame -for the decadenc t ry ( time ‘ N teaching in publ chools ca vil ‘ ed t Court Sets lid at-the door of the Latin, CEXEMTb ie meme-trere-rie-tarrer-pare oft \ . ( themsels He l ach Frosh Free nii:sscie os isc ly wse Who teach Latin in WI | I hools to tight to keep the lese Drea ka) un Caine f Latin at re t level | tc Ce i i d ee required years instead of | V. ( his Latin I; to the onslaught of | cla Phe ¢ H wal Hie ed to the dead lan-| | 1 i Ki classifte enemies of] n } t Fe dnenait 4 Latin into” three 1)) parents, BEN abc oka | edge of Latin His DAVIDSONIAN j able tc ike eet - \DVERTISERS t t; iackt \ ( Gh eee a nee ite ale Abana a ae kk ok ok ok t c—the tion they “dic The Mt t! Mr \nne R aes dies present one faeteeraietic Johnson's Barber Shop i rnoon,| ‘SM Mar ( Da 1 SEEN PIE PO SRT GIT ited college! Ce pratinted-i/1936, Ati aps 1 p ‘ ik in its original Da was elec a me D S Comin nt colo (0). 1D) While a student he ance 1 s | ched t milage rm plovec Sidney Marsh, ’36 Wins Advancement

The Soda Shop
Sandwiches, Smoke
UY! a lereint Magazines Tor a Oltice) ae: Open Sundays, P. M. { North Car ploy ° ¢, has been transferred Mooresville, N. C.

No, We Aren’t an Annex, Exactly

NO i MS ha renal] i 1] ( Hot ( erater 1 ' U Aa asks ' or stit »-child m« | ised Cha te h | We wouldn't be tremendously surprised, though, to hear such an inquiry—probably from some of the new men who have observed how Davidsonians make straight line to Hotel Charlotte when they make a landing in the city.

Maybe they’re hurrying to a date in the Lobby. Maybe they’re burning to get to a telephone and do some calling, Or maybe they're just hurrying to The Tavern; that’d account for lots of them. Anyway it’s Tuxedos — Full Dress “ve Ae: Rant at ie aad pretty evident that here’s Davidson men’s “head- Tailored $2 quarters” in Charlotte.

$32.00 Tailored $40.00 By Hamilton Tailoring Co. Cincinnati, Ohio

Norton’s Barber Shop Today Guaranteed Fit and Absolute Satisfaction

THE TAVERN of HOTEL CHARLOTTE