SINGLE CUTS ARE VOTED FOR SOUTH CAROLINA GAME

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

The Davidsonian

BARNHOUSE WILL CONDUCT SERIES OF FALL SERVICES

VOL. XXV DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., WEDNESDAY, OCT. 6, 1937 NO. 8

Kappa Sigma Lead Scholastic Ratings
Phi Gamma Delta and Phi Delta Theta Win Second And Third Places

HIGH AVERAGE IS 2.125
Combined Average Is Better Than Last Year

Kappa Sigma fraternity last year climbed ahead of Phi Gamma Delta in the fraternity scholastic race to take the lead
with a chapter average of 2.125. Phi Gamma Delta slipped into second place with 2.113, while Phi Delta Theta took
third with 2.096. Other ratings in order were as follows: Kappa Alpha, 1.800; Beta Theta Pi, 1.849; Sigma Phi Epsilon,
1.806; Pi Kappa Phi, 1.795; Pi Kappa Alpha, 1.759; Sigma Alpha Epsilon, 1.733.

For the 1935-36 session Phi Gamma Delta ranked first with 2.135, Kappa Sigma was second with 1.852, and Pi Kappa
Alpha third with 1.841. Although the top rating of 1936-37 is not as high as that of the year before,
the average of all the fraternities as a whole is much improved. Three groups made over 2.000 for the last
session, while only one attained that distinction the year before. The bottom rating in the present statistics, too, is a
great deal higher than the preceding one.

The average for all men on the campus mounts a total of 1.904, which is almost equal to the grade
of B. The Kappa Sigmas’ rating of 2.125 is between B and B+.

Davidson Boy Is Dance Hit
Stewart Barnes Doing Little Apple at Leon and Eddie’s In New York

From Davidson to Leon and Eddie’s in one jump — such is the success story of Stewart Barnes, class of
'37, who opens a two-weeks' engagement on October 7, doing the “Little Apple” with Miss “Babs” McDowell, of Gaffney. Billed
as “Jabs and Stewart,” the two will swing out in true collegiate style this week in the “Pago-Pago” room of
the world-famed New York hot spot.

Leon and Eddie's, on West 52nd Street, is one of the oldest and most popular night clubs in Manhattan. Miss
McDowell, a popular South Carolina debutante, was the winner of the state-wide “Big Apple” contest in Charlotte. Barnes, who sang
with “Chubby” King and his Collegians at the Mayview Manor this past summer, was a member of the Centennial class
at Davidson.

Barnes stated that he plans to return in February to resume his studies. Commenting upon his dance routine, Barnes said:
“This is just as much of a surprise to me as it is to you” — which is plenty. He
also stated that he does not plan to make dancing his professional career — at least not until his college
education is completed.

Science Movies Will Be Given Next Week
The physics and chemistry departments will give their first scientific moving pictures of the session Tuesday, October 12, at 7:15
P.M. The subject is “Heat and Its Control.” These pictures were made rather recently and are the only films available
in this field. This presentation is made possible through the courtesy of Johns-Manville Corporation.

“Democracy would be wise if it would curb the education of thousands of our present school population.” President James L.
McConaughy of Wesleyan University takes the other side of the Save-Democracy fence.

Col. Richmond To Visit Local ROTC
Colonel Henry R. Richmond from General Headquarters of the Fourth Corps Area in Atlanta, Ga., will pay an informal visit
to Davidson College to inspect the condition of the R.O.T.C. Unit and its equipment, Lieut.-Col. J. T. Rhett announced early
this week. The visit will be purely routine and no special formations or formal inspections of the cadets will take
place. Col. Richmond, who will arrive late on Wednesday the 13th and leave Thursday afternoon, will call on President Lingle
and attend classes as a check on the work being done here.

Vespers Talk Made Sunday By Alexander
‘Youth Marches On’ Is Theme Of Forceful Address To Student Body

SAYS WE HAVE FAILED
Stresses Need For Christ

“Youth Marches On” was the general theme of Rev. Robert L. Alexander's sermon when he spoke at Vespers Sunday evening.
Mr. Alexander is pastor of the First Presbyterian Church at Lumberton. Mr. Alexander cited the present turmoil in Germany, Italy,
Russia, China, and Japan as a result of “The young men’s marching on of hell has truly been unloosed in
these places; they are marching to death and destruction.”

He also noted that the young men in these places are marching to the call of some powerful personalities, such
as dictators. The question is, what can we do about the march of personalities — for youth to follow? The
alternative is Jesus Christ. We have failed in attempting to produce a warless world — we have failed in attempting
to produce a liquor-less world. In short, we have failed to see things in proportion; much less goes to the
church than to the material things we spend our money for. We have failed, most of all, to present Jesus
Christ as the one and only Savior. With Him at their head, youth can truly march on to victory. Mr.
Alexander closed his sermon by quoting the inspiring verses of the hymn, “Lead On, O King Eternal!”

Committees Chosen to Carry Out Year's Work
Last night at nine o'clock the Omicron Delta Kappa honorary fraternity held its first meeting of the year. At this
meeting, held in the Chambers Room in the main building, the group formulated plans for the year’s work. Committees were
appointed to carry out certain tasks during the school session.

The work of the O.D.K., both locally and nationally, is of great importance in college life. On the Davidson campus
it has done such things as abolish initiations. Its move to abolish drinking at Davidson athletic contests has resulted in
a similar move at Princeton and the enactment of a North Carolina state law prohibiting drinking at athletic contests. Members
of the O.D.K. are “Tee” Hill, Bailey Williams, Dick Boyd, Haywood Vowles, and Wade Barrow.

Majority of Freshman Class Signs Pledge
Culprit in Water-Tank Mystery Is Found

NON-SIGNERS QUIZZED
Early Action Expected on Part Of Court

At a class meeting Monday morning, 180 freshmen signed a pledge that they did not paint the water tank or
that they did not know who did. 30 freshmen refused to sign. Last Friday the judge of the Court of
Control, Kiesewetter, announced that the entire first year class would be put on a strict campus beginning Monday, October 4
and to last indefinitely until the guilty person was found. Immediately following this announcement, Watson Street, class advisor, called a
meeting at 8:30 A.M.

At the meeting Friday, one member of the class moved that a petition be drawn up stating: the undersigned did
not paint or have knowledge in relation to the painting of the village tank. This was done by the class
to co-operate with the Court of Control. The movement was unanimously passed.

Those who signed the pledge Monday at the presentation will be free from the campus restrictions. Those who did not,
however, will be examined and questioned by the campus court. When the guilty person is discovered, the entire freshman class
will be set free from the restrictions. Therefore, the campus restriction is still in effect and will remain so until
further notice. Also, at any time there be found any infraction of the honor system in relation to the pledge,
it will be dealt with severely by the student council.

On Thursday of last week the Court of Control examined about twenty-five freshmen, but nothing conclusive was found. Then the
class was given forty-eight hours to deliver the culprit before the court before the campus restrictions were to be put
into effect on Monday.

Social Group Bids Twelve
Black Keys Issue Invitations To Seven Seniors and Five Juniors

The Black Keys social fraternity issued twelve bids to members of the student body last week. Seven of these invitations
were issued to seniors and five to juniors. The seven seniors who received bids were Jim Dorsett, Phi Gamma Delta
social fraternity; Yates Faison, Sigma Alpha Epsilon; Bill Nicholson, Sigma Alpha Epsilon; Gill Palmer, Kappa Alpha; Lawrence Reid, Phi Gamma
Delta; Wal Hy Tonnisen, Phi Delta Theta, and Jim Wilson, Pi Kappa Phi fraternity. The five juniors receiving invitations were
Bill Boyd, Phi Delta Theta; Paul Cooper, Pi Kappa Phi; McClellan, Pi Kappa Alpha; Raymond Pittman, and Dick Taylor, Kappa
Alpha fraternity.

The Black Keys is the predominant social club on the campus and it is succeeding the Gentleman’s Country Club. Its
members are selected from students who exhibit qualities of leadership, good fellowship, and congeniality. The Black Keys was established in
1935, and it sponsors several social functions during the year. Philip Arrowsmith is president of the Black Keys, Billy Holt
is vice-president, and Elmore Crooks is secretary and treasurer. The twelve men who received bids were taken into the club
a few days after they were extended invitations to become members.

Annual Fall Services Begin Monday; Will Be Concluded Tomorrow
MANY ATTEND MEETINGS
Students Invited to Talk With Dr. Barnhouse

The annual fall services of the Davidson Y.M.C.A. are in full swing today, as Dr. Donald G. Barnhouse, of Philadelphia,
continues his series of addresses to the student body. The special services began Monday morning at chapel, and will be
concluded tomorrow evening. Dr. Barnhouse has spoken in Chambers auditorium each morning and again in the evening, except Monday night,
when he preached in Charlotte. The meetings have been well attended.

In his initial address, Dr. Barnhouse announced that his theme would be “Supernatural Laws.” Using the passage beginning with Corinthians
1:18, he said, there are “a number of spiritual laws comparable to the laws of science. These must be an
essential part of our existence. We should accustom ourselves to them, as a baby accustoms himself to the law of
gravity. Obedience to them should be instinctive.” It is a fact, Dr. Barnhouse stated, that the gospel separates men in
their thinking. The word of the Cross is foolishness to those that perish, but it is to believers the power
of God. God has such attributes as: love, justice, holiness, and mercy. Dr. Barnhouse explained that sinful man could expect
only condemnation, until Christ became sin and was sacrificed to satisfy the demands of holiness and justice. Now God's love
may reach man.

The talks that have followed continued on the same general subject.An invitation to talk personally with the visiting pastor was
extended to all students. Appointments with Dr. Barnhouse may be made through the Y.M.C.A. Secretary or Bill Kiesewetter, according to
Wade Boggs. Dr. Barnhouse, who is now pastor of the Tenth Presbyterian Church of Philadelphia, has had an unusually varied
career. After leaving Princeton University, he served in the Air Corps during the World War. He remained in Europe during
the seven years following the war, first doing relief work in Belgium, then studying in France. On his return to
this country, Dr. Barnhouse became a member of the faculty of the University of Pennsylvania. At the same time, he
served as pastor of the Grace Presbyterian Church. In 1927, he resigned these positions to accept his present pastorate in
Philadelphia. Dr. Barnhouse studied this summer in Germany and has only recently returned.

Old Grads To Return Nov. 6
Largest Crowd of Recent Years Expected For Annual Occasion

Homecoming
Davidson's annual Homecoming Day will be observed on November 6, as has been the custom in the past, according to
Fred Smith, alumni secretary. Plans for the occasion are rapidly being made, and Mr. Smith stated that he expected the
largest crowd of recent years to be on hand for the occasion. The program, which will be headed by the
annual football game between Davidson and Carolina, will also include the annual alumni luncheon. The college will act as host
to the graduates, which is expected to reach 600 or more. This luncheon was attended by 400 alumni last year.
Also, an outstanding speaker will be secured for the meeting, which will be presided over by (Continued on Page 6).

Davidson Students Selected As Outstanding By Le Cercle Francais
Le Cercle Francais on Saturday, September 25, sent out ten bids, nine going to students and one to a member
of the faculty. Those receiving bids were Dr. R. de V. Williamson of the faculty, and O. V. Armstrong, Sidney
Crane, G. D. Davidson, R. R. King, T. P. Porter, Bill Preyer, John Raynal, Sam Spencer, and Jack Tillotson. All
ten of these bids have been accepted. The initiation of these new men will take place at the next regular
meeting, which will be October 12. Le Cercle Francais is an honorary fraternity for those who are taking advanced courses
in French.

College Band Starts Radio Hours On Air
Joe McLeskey, '40, to Announce Programs During Year

SUNDAY SERVICE HEARD
Double Quartette and McDonald Render Music

Led by the Davidson College band under the direction of James Christian Pfohl, a new weekly program of broadcasts originating
in the auditorium of Chambers building, began last Friday evening. Changing both station and hour from last year, the presentation
went on the air over Charlotte’s WSOC at 7:45, lasting until 8:00 o'clock. Last year a series of programs were
broadcast over WBT from 10:30 until 11 o'clock. Joe McLeskey of Charlotte was the announcer for the evening. He succeeds
Wilbur Edwards, former president of the student body and radio announcer. McLeskey is a member of the class of '40
and has had previous radio experience with WSOC. Also, on last Sunday morning from 9 o'clock until 9:15, a religious
program was heard from the Davidson campus over WSOC. Announced by McLeskey and in the form of a short worship
service, WSOC presented the Davidson College Double Quartette accompanied by Prof. Thane McDonald at the organ. A scripture reading was
given by Wade H. Boggs, secretary of the local Y.M.C.A. The broadcast opened Friday evening with “O Davidson,” followed by
a program of college songs and alma mater. The feature of the evening was an interview of Norman Shepard, Davidson
athletic director, by Announcer McLeskey concerning the athletic condition of the college. Among the college tunes played were “Dear Old
Duke” and “Fight On For Davidson.”

Lingle Speaks Before Synod
Dr. Walter Lingle left this morning for Memphis, Tennessee, where he will speak to the Presbyterian Synods of Alabama, Tennessee,
and Louisiana tonight. The address will be delivered at Southwestern College, where the convention is being held. He was invited
to speak by those who own and control Southwestern, with his subject to be “Christian Education.” Special emphasis will be
placed upon the work being accomplished by the Memphis college. Dr. Lingle will return to Davidson Thursday night. His next
journey will take him to Atlantic City, where he will address the Presbyterian Synod of New Jersey on October 20.

Davidson Collegiate Who’s Who
Bailey Williams, Haywood Hill, Martin Lafferty, Bill Kiesewetter, Dick Vowles, Watson Street, Jim Dorsett, and Wade Barrow Represent Davidson in
Honor Publication; Selections Made on Basis of Character, Leadership, and Possibility of Future Usefulness. ’37 Issue To Appear in February.

Eight of the most outstanding undergraduates on the Davidson campus have been nominated to represent this school on the biographic
roll of student leaders. Names and sketches of these men will be published in the forthcoming edition of “Who’s Who
Among Students in American Universities and Colleges.” The local students to be honored are Bailey Williams, Haywood Hill, Martin Lafferty,
Bill Kiesewetter, Dick Vowles, Watson Street, Jim Dorsett, and Wade Barrow. The selections are made on the basis of character,
scholarship, leadership, and possibility of future usefulness. The number of students nominated from each institution is governed by the enrollment.
Last year over 400 institutions were represented in the publication, and a larger number is expected this year. The new
edition, which will be the fourth, is to be off the press sometime in February. It is interesting to note
that although the selections could be made from either the junior or senior class, only seniors were chosen here. Williams
is captain of the football team; Hill is head of the “Y” Cabinet; Lafferty is president of the student body;
and Kiesewetter is judge of the court of control. Vowles is editor of The Davidsonian, while Dorsett is at the
head of the annual. Watson Street is freshman class adviser, and Barrow is president of the senior class.

Tests Show I.Q. Standing of New Men
Intelligence and Arithmetic Quizzes Given During Orientation

DR. GWYNN IN CHARGE
This Year’s Range From 67 to 322

The results of intelligence and arithmetic tests given to the class of '41 during Orientation week have been announced by
Dr. P.H. Gwynn, head of the education department, who is in charge of orientation. The intelligence test is divided into
two parts, a psychological and a reading test, and has been given here for the past three classes of freshmen.
The math test is given by the mathematics department as a placement test in math, and is new here. The
psychological test is put out in a new edition each year, although the same reading test has been given every
time. The tests have been given to the class of '41, '40, and '39. In 1932, the range of scores
was from 31 to 204. Last year, the low was 44 and the high was 312. This year, the low
was 67 and the high was 322. Dr. Gwynn has been unable to compare this with last year's, but the
scores are close to each other in range.

High Score Last Year
The results of the psychological tests are sent to the author, who compares them with the results from other institutions.
Incidentally, the national average for this type of test is 100. A person’s I.Q. derived from these tests would probably
not be more than 10 points better or worse than the score given to a group test. But, states Dr.
Gwynn, they do have a relative value and cannot be ignored. For this reason, the comparative rankings were compiled and
a copy sent to each professor, in order to show in what subjects each man is weak. The psychological test
is scored according to the number of correct answers given, and has a possibility of 407 points divided into five
parts: Common Sense, Arithmetic, Language Ability, Memory, and Like Words. The reading test is a test of vocabulary, memory, and
retention of what is read. It is allotted an hour, consists of 172 points possible, and is graded on a
percentile basis.

Annual Starts Work
Dorsett Announces That Layout of Dummy Is Already Completed

The dummy of "Quips and Cranks," the Davidson College annual, has already been completed, announced Editor in Chief Jim Dorsett,
who further stated that the layout this year would be in color. The staff is already hard at work, and
Dorsett said that the annual would be bigger and better than ever before. The book will contain five parts: Editorial,
Classes, Athletics, Activities, and Features. The editorial section will contain comments on Fall Services, Drinking at Football Games, and Court
Cases. Features will include remarks by Perry Sloan, on The Charlotte Observer's new sports writer, and letters on Justice Black,
debate decisions, and the Centennial. King For a Day by that inimitable "Chubby" King will keep up with campus extra-curricular
activity.
