Page Six THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, NOV. 17, 1938

Sophs at Princeton Try To Help ‘Lonely Hearts’ Club’s Task Is to Se Lonel Midget Motorcycles Students of Princeton Invading
Campus And Vassar

Have you heard it? Have you seen it? Have you ridden it? If not, you have missed one of the
thrills of a lifetime. It is the new half-pint motorcycle that has been taking the campus by storm.

On Monday afternoon, the College Pharmacy introduced to the students a new form of a motor vehicle somewhat similar to
a motorcycle. It consists of a tiny motor of one cylinder, which holds three quarts of gasoline, two quarts of
oil, and will go about 150 miles on a gallon of gas. When in first-class shape, it will run approximately
35 or 40 miles per hour.

The Princeton University sophomores have undertaken the ambitious task of arranging introductions between “lonely hearts” of Princeton and Vassar. This
project is all done by mail sent through the “Lonely Hearts Club” formed last month by Robert Brandin and W.
Gilroy, both students of Princeton University, who emphasize that there is no charge whatsoever. It is accomplished by their heart-serving
organization.

About three weeks ago, an ad was placed in the Princetonian, stating: “Are you lonely in Princeton? Join the Lonely
Hearts Club. No Fees, and every letter is confidential.” Large amounts of mail were received by the club.

Your Film Dunas aay Te Report Card By HENRY B. BAKER File Is Kept

(The following film ratings are based upon those of current magazines and the observations of the writer.) A—Excellent; B—Good; C—Fair;
D—Poor.

“HOLD 'EM NAVY” — Lew Ayres, Mary Carlisle, Benny Baker, and John Howard. One of the season's best football pictures
was released a week ago and the few ratings given are high. A romantic triangle with Annapolis for a background,
the rivalry of John Howard and Lew Ayres who hold the same post on the football team.

“THE LIFE OF THE PARTY” — Joe Penner, Gene Raymond, Parkyakarkus, Victor Moore, and Helen Hilliard. A musical comedy, which
the cast naturally would indicate a fast and funny picture—but such is not the case. Silver Screen gives it about
“C,” saying that it misses out. Screen Guide states it is “ultra-light comedy, just average.”

“LANCER SPY” — Dolores Del Rio, George Sanders, and Peter Lorre. A fast-moving World War picture that ought to interest
Davidson students. Screen Book critics give it a high rating.

A study at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology measured the decibels of sound in the men’s dormitories and found that
between 5 P.M. and 11 P.M., the noise was “equivalent to that of riveting machines or a fair roll of
thunder.”

WHEN IN MOORESVILLE — SHOP AT — KENNERLY’S GROCERY STORE HIGH QUALITY LOW PRICES

Adoption of the honor system is being considered at Michigan State.

A Sally From Sally

This is a facsimile of the card received by Davidson's grid heroes from Miss Sally Rand while in New York.

Anecdotes on Harvard Steels’ Collection (Continued from Page Five)

One must climb to the top of the tree in true Tarzan fashion. One day when Mrs. Steel had climbed
to a high spot on the island of Oahu, she had the thrill of discovering a land shell that was
new to science. This shell was sent to the British Museum in London for observation and the shell was named
in honor of its finder. A prominent eastern malacologist pronounced Major and Mrs. Steel's collection of marine shells as the
finest collection in the Eastern United States, including museum collections.

Getting on the train in New York Sunday night after a busy day of sightseeing in which some members of
the squad saw a hockey match, the group was surprised to find the N. C. State squad, who had ironically
enough, lost to Manhattan 15 to 0, also on the same train. Out of the conversation that arose comes the
story on Eddie Berlinski, star Wolfpack back. It seems that Eddie was involved in a very serious conversation with our
old friend “Doc” Newton before embarking for New York. Just before the train pulled out, Frank had the ball and
his hands wiped before every snap all to no avail, he said that he finally just began to toss it
in the air and let the wind carry it back.Eddie turned to Newton and said, “Say, give it only a
‘C’—maybe they are wrong; we'll see. Coach, going up there to lick them Yanks, Newton, looking at his stocky New
Jerseyan, smilingly acquiesced.

The story concerns a German officer captured by the British, and a Britisher who disguises himself as the captured German
and spies behind the enemy lines.

Fine Harvard Eleven (Continued from Page 4)

Foley sliding over from the 4. The only other touchdown of the day came in the third period when Foley
skidded into the open, shook the mud from his cleats, and ran 61 yards for the score. Davidson's running attack
never got under way and passing was, of course, out of the question, being the only game in recent history
in which neither team attempted a single pass. The small Wildcat backs, hampered by the slick ball and the strong
Crimson line, rarely got to the line of scrimmage on first downs and usually punted on second downs. However, the
Wildcats’ valiant defense that faltered only twice during the game drew loud praise from the sports writers and fans that
saw the muddy battle. Frank Purdy was the hero of the first half, as time after time he slipped through
to throw the big Harvard backs for losses. Warden, Johnston, and Captain Bailey Williams also covered themselves with glory as
they snagged the Crimson backs before they could get started. Teeny Lafferty went into the game in the third quarter
and played a good defensive game, though he never had a chance to run on the soggy field. All of
Davidson’s midget backs played a good game with Fred Stair standing out in a brilliant defense.

Among The Greeks (Continued from Page Five)

George Tillotson, Richmond, and Fred Leinbach went to Harvard with the team, while Holt, Newbold, Throop, Martin, Shore, and Sugg
went with the band. Pi Kappa Phi—Bidwell Ivey and Bill McLean went to Rock Hill for the weekend. Jim Hill
went home to Sharon, S.C. Pledge Bill Ward went to Greensboro and Pledge Fred Moore went to Atlanta. “Booby” Arrowsmith
went to his home in Florence, S.C. Pledge Louis Hite accompanied the band to Harvard and Brother Spencer Goodman and
Pledge Bill Davis were away with the football team. Pledge Norris Erb went to Badin for the weekend. Kellam Terry
went to Albemarle and Joe Point went to High. Miss Margaret Ivey was a guest of the chapter Sunday.

Phi Delta Theta—Pete McKnight attended a dance at Greensboro Saturday night and spent the weekend there. John Withers and Pledge
Whitney Reynolds accompanied the band to Cambridge. Harper Beall went home to Lenoir and Tommy Glenn to Spartanburg. Pledges Stevenson,
Sproull, and Spenser Bros. went to the dance in Greensboro.

Every Student Is Cordially Invited
CITY CAFE & DINING ROOM
“WHERE FRIENDS MEET TO EAT”
Mooresville, N.C.

The Star of “Captains Courageous” Scores Again!
Spencer TRACY
Luise Rainer
“BIG CITY”
Balcony 25c. Anytime

James CAGNEY
Evelyn Daw
“Something To Sing About”

When In Town Dine At Home
The Wooden Bowl
125 West 4th St.
Charlotte, N.C.

Complete Line of Hats, Shirts, and Ties
DRY GOODS GROCERIES RADIO SUPPLIES HARDWARE
M. H. GOODRUM & CO.
DAVIDSON, N.C.
RCA and Zenith Radios

BUFF SHOE SHOP
DAVIDSON
Speed... Precision... Quality
O.C. Buff, Prop.

Wed. Nov. 17—Thurs. Nov. 18—
“Love Under Fire”
Friday, Nov. 19—Sat. Nov. 20—
“Hold ’Em Navy”
Mon.-Tues. Nov. 22-23—
“Life of the Party”
“Lancer Spy”

SOUTHERN THEATRE
“Stage Door”

Copyright 1937, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.

The usual Sunday night feed was held with several girls being present.

Sigma Phi Epsilon—On Saturday night a feed was held at the house in honor of “Uncle Billie” Phillips, Grand Secretary
of Sigma Phi Epsilon, who visited the chapter. Skinny Lowrance journeyed with the football team to the Harvard game. Misses
“Teeny” Cook, Lillian Stewart, and Nancy Carter of Salisbury visited the house over the weekend. Henry Lyons went to Salisbury
for the weekend. Brothers Kunz and Doty and Pledges Hamilton and Hay were off to Winthrop Saturday night. Murray Holland,
of Kinston, was pledged by the chapter last week.

After fifty-one years, a graduate of Mass. Institute of Technology in 1885, has returned to the institute to take a
course in spectroscopy, which is now his hobby.

A U. of Minn. freshman has had to say “Ugh” 97,000 times in the last few weeks. That word is
his entire speaking part in a play.

Watch the smoker when he finds out about Chesterfields. Smokers like that Chesterfield TASTE and sure as shootin’ they’re MILDER.
