Page Two

The Davidsonian

Founded By the Class of 1915

1937 Member 1938 Associated Collegiate Press Distributor of Collegiate Digest

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY National Advertising Service, Inc. College Publishers Representative 420 MADISON AVE New York, N.Y. Chicago -
Boston - LOS ANGELES - San Francisco

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879.

DICK VOWLES ..........-Business Manager
CHARLES MOORE... .......-Editor

EDITORIAL STAFF
Fitzhugh Dade .......... Assistant Editor
Ovid Bell .......... Managing Editor
Joe Calvin .......... Editor-in-Chief
Wesley Coghill .......... Editor
Pere Porter .......... News Editor
Owen Cone .......... Sports Editor
Pettit Ren .......... News Editor
Victor (Ace) .......... Feature Editor
Sam Rybar .......... Collection Manager
Henry Baker .......... Advertising Manager
Andy Turner .......... Advertising Manager
H. Latimer .......... Advertising Manager
Wesley Coghill .......... Circulation Manager

Religion is the inspiration of the secular life, the breathing of an eternal spirit through the temporal world. —Henry Drummond.

We extend our sincerest sympathies to Euclid Fant in the recent loss of his father.

Saturday's Game...

A feeling of extreme disappointment and almost resentment pervaded the campus after last Saturday's game with V.M.I. Of course, defeat
after almost certain prospects of victory is a hard thing to swallow. However, so often such a defeat brings about
a tendency to blame almost anything and anybody, instead of appraising the true state of affairs. When the Wildcats entered
the game, they entered under a considerable disadvantage. A number of the regulars were out of the game due to
injuries. So, fellow students, don’t blame the team. They did the best they could. Alumni, don’t show yourselves the poor
sports that alumni of other institutions often do. Don’t blame the coach. What more could he have done? The only
thing he could have possibly done was to send in incapacitated regulars with the possibility and grave danger of further
and more serious injury. We are not delivering a eulogy on moral victory. That phrase has been used so much
at Davidson that it now stands in the category of trite expressions. Moral victories are fine alibis but they don’t
add up in points. There are still other games in the season. Let's forget past losses and disappointments and look
forward to prospects of victory in future contests.

Journalism Course...

For year after year, ever since we of the staff can remember, The Davidsonian, on behalf of a large number
in the student body, has been clamoring for a course in journalism among other desired curriculum changes. Now our visions
have been realized due to the energy and services of the College alumni secretary, Fred Smith. Our thanks to Smith
for presenting the course and to the administration for sanctioning it. Of course, it is not a regular course in
the curriculum with designated hours and credits, but it satisfies the needs of those who really desire to know more
about newspaper work and those who intend to go into that profession. Since credit is not offered, that undesired element,
the “easy credit hound,” is eliminated. If the student body takes an interest in such a voluntary course, it can
and may develop into a permanent institution, a thing that The Davidsonian has been advocating. Let’s show that our wants
were well-founded and not merely fictitious.

Dr. Barnhouse...

This year’s minister for fall services, Dr. Barnhouse, certainly made a decided impression on us as a man of varied
and diverse potentialities. A great traveler and student, a clear thinker, and a man of wide experience, he introduced new
and fascinating interpretations of the Scriptures. However, from our observations, Dr. Barnhouse failed to fulfill the intention and purpose of
fall services—the renewal of our spiritual lives. The general unrest during the chapel hour, the poor attendance at evening services,
and the occasional comments from students revealed this fact. In his efforts to bring out the true meaning of the
Scriptures, perhaps Dr. Barnhouse was overtly mathematical and logical in his reasoning. We don't have any doubt but that the
Philadelphia minister is a Christian of the highest caliber, but it seems that he did not introduce as much of
that spirit as he might have. An over-display of emotion is never advisable in student services nor does it obtain
the desired end, but a greater emphasis upon personal religion seems to be more effective. Some students complained that Dr.
Barnhouse's sermons were just too deep. The fault probably lies with the student in that case. Those complaints show lack
of attention. The Davidson student body seems to have built up a further aversion to preachers who start their stories
with “When I was in...” There is no foundation for such a feeling either. A minister must illustrate his sermons
to create the desired effect and hold attention. Perhaps we are wholly to blame—it may be that our mind just
isn't deep enough nor our heart big enough to comprehend.

Pan-Hellenic Council...

For some reason unknown to us, not a student body to this day has really cooperated with the Pan-Hellenic Council
in all their dealings. Of course, if the Council obtains a big-time band for Mid-Winters, the students seem to swing
right in with the fraternity representatives. On the other hand, if things do not go just right, those nine men
are “on the spot.” Right now, this year, seems the time to stop such nonsense. Difficulties in the inner workings
of last year's Council plus revised rulings concerning dancing have given the present Council more than their share of worries.
Now that they have time to consider bands for forthcoming dances, let’s bear with them. Perhaps remarks have been made
in a spirit of jest, but a joke can be carried a little too far. The mingled boos and hisses
following chapel announcements concerning Council meetings even get monotonous. It would be a great deal better to stop criticizing and
“ragging,” and exhibit a little more spirit of cooperation, don’t you think?

With The Staff

We really hope ye editor won’t mind us writing a rather disconnected column instead of the usual long editorial that
was used last year in this space.

It takes a good man to be a good salesman but it takes a better man to be an honest
and just salesman. It also takes a superior human to sell his wares without making enemies. The college student has
ample opportunities to make his way through college by selling various things, but it's a great temptation to try to
squeeze just a little more money out and use unethical business methods. We have often wondered if it was quite
the right thing to do to sell college jobs to freshmen, or to take personal cuts from boarding house money
on the part of the manager. Perhaps things of that sort have never been done at Davidson, nor should they
be.

We were rather surprised on attending the Davidson-Duke game to see a bit of the circus atmosphere. On inquiry, we
found that Fred Smith, publicity director, was responsible for the calliope and the two clowns. For some reason, however, they
didn’t seem to go over, and the calliope was hardly heard in the stands. Perhaps they were just a bit
out of place in a football atmosphere. On the other hand, we have always thought the “sponsor idea” was excellent.
Here's hoping that Davidson College's high school band and football day went over with a bang in the hearts of
the youthful visitors. Although Davidson’s band has flourished and continues to do so since the arrival of Prof. Pfohl, our
freshman football teams seem to be declining every year (of course we don’t know about this year’s team yet). Let’s
hope we have a freshman team next year that will promise a great varsity in years to come.

SOPHOMORE STAFFER.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Campus in Cartoon

LEAVELL BROTHERS MOST FAMOUS FAMILY IN GREEK-LETTER HISTORY? ALL WERE MEMBERS OF SIGMA CHI AT THE UNIVERSITY OF MISSISSIPPI FROM
1899 TO 1912

Copyright by Associated Collegiate Press

Letters to the Editor

A STATEMENT FROM THE PRESIDENT...

In response to the inquiry raised by “Chemistry Student” in the Davidsonian of October 6, President Lingle made the following
statement: "The Administration is always glad to answer questions that may be in the minds of the students concerning the
policies of the College and always appreciates the opportunity of doing so. When subscriptions were made to the Centennial Fund
by students and faculty last spring it was stated that the first objective would be an Infirmary. That was the
most acute need. Other objectives were mentioned as coming next.

Shortly after Commencement a gentleman and his good friends offered to erect the Infirmary and authorized us to proceed. We
immediately went into action on plans andSpecifications, and a little later began the erection of the building. The question is
now raised as to what application will be made of the funds subscribed by the students and faculty. Please note
that the funds were not subscribed specifically to the Infirmary but to the Centennial Fund. The Infirmary was to be
the first objective. What is to be the next objective?

In a statement made by the Administration and published in the Davidsonian on September 29, you will find this paragraph:
“A new Library building and a new Science Hall are the immediate objectives. We wish that some family who has
been richly blessed with means could erect one of these buildings. It would make a beautiful family memorial.”

There is an urgent need for a reading room, and I would like to see one installed. Could we have
a room or two open for those who want to read on Sunday or study Saturday nights without being bothered
by blaring radios or hammering typewriters? On Saturday night when we sit in our rooms trying to get algebra, what
do we get? Wheaties!! On Sunday when we are deep in Tolstoy, what happens?

Yours truly,

This Collegiate World
(By Associated Collegiate Press)

Charter members of a unique club at the University of West Virginia are still smacking their lips. The eleven boys,
embryo foresters, are snake eaters. It all came about in this wise. At the university forestry camp, one of the
boys brought back a six-foot black snake. They didn't want the meat to go to waste, so the camp cook
wrestled with it for a while and at dinner produced black snake—roast as the main course. The eleven charter members,
who had agreed each to eat an equal portion of the meat, sat around the table, a little doubtful, but
anxious to prove their sportsmanship.

Time Table
WEDNESDAY—OCT. 13
7:00 P.M. Editorial Staff of The Davidsonian meets at the office.
THURSDAY—OCT. 14
7:00-10:00 P.M. Social fraternities hold their weekly meetings.
FRIDAY—OCT. 15
7:45 P.M. Davidson College broadcast over station WSOC, Charlotte.
SATURDAY—OCT. 16
12:30 P.M. Davidson College Alumni meeting at the Columbia Hotel, Columbia, S.C.
2:30 P.M. Varsity football game with the University of South Carolina at Columbia.
SUNDAY—OCT. 17
10:00 A.M. Student Sunday School class meets in Shearer Hall.
6:30 P.M. College Vesper Service in Chambers Auditorium with Dr. Foreman of the Davidson College faculty as speaker.
MONDAY—OCT. 18
12:00 Noon. Student meetings are held in Chambers Auditorium following the regular chapel exercise.
7:00 P.M. Sigma Pi Sigma physics fraternity meets.
TUESDAY—OCT. 19
9:00 P.M. Scheduled meeting of Sigma Upsilon.

The students have subscribed $1,000 that I think would benefit the students.

WEDNESDAY, OCT. 13, 1937
King For A Day
By CHUBBY KING

MISCELLANEOUS MUST...
Why did Bronston Kenny leave the Pep Tom Abbott victim of parental displeasure—stay away? Detest ghastly counterfeit atop this column—I
look in mirrors and wonder if it’s really me—and unhappily decide it is. Also, wonder whose idea it was—someone with
a keen sense of the ridiculous, maybe. Who was this guy Narcissus anyway? Only twenty-three more days until the first
fourth—a fraction—of Davidson's social program comes off, so bear up, ye monks, and live in anticipation. It’s to be a
gala occasion with all the frills, so the grapevine twitters. Overheard Pete Marchant say to Brent Greene—"Your brother sure must
be in love—he's wearing shoes and everything.” Simple remark covers the masculine side of that foolish feeling very adequately. Kentucky's
Own certainly uses his head—he's within walking distance to twenty-three day wait for him. Wish the Blonde One luck.

AT LEXINGTON—it was rather a damp weekend. Rain all afternoon. Love the way girls dress for game—tweeds and scarves, a
lot of color. Small Davidson cheering section with Bobby Arrowsmith and Way Way Lumpkin, Ken Lawson and Jane Holman, Pete
McKnight and Anna Mae in attendance. Also, announcer Kieswetter jobless, Fielding Clark, Dick Wright, Reid Harmon, Billie Crooks, Jim Hogg,
and Barrow. Washington and Lee students, evidently noticing The Big Apple at the VMI dances, issued a statement the next
day prohibiting the same as unfitting for W&L Frolics. Some joke.

MYERS PARK—Friday night. Thought MP had a distinct aversion for college men. However, Gales McClintock, John Irwin, Jim Terry, Bill
McLean, Joe McCleskey all there. Also, Childe Harold Henderson springing about with another lovely infant. Paul McGarrity with a charming
person who I think doesn’t like me very much. TO ANOTHER FAIR ONE AT SAME SCHOOL—Dick Sideburn Taylor very apologetic
over missing you when you passed through Friday to see him, but he was very busy with binoculars at the
B-Squad game watching the game—so they say. Boy! do I like KAs. How Jerry Harris lost his girl, there isn’t
any telling. His actions say he’s given way.

The alphabetical ratings are: A—Excellent; B—Good; C—Fair; D—Poor.

By HENRY B. BAKER
(Film ratings are based on those of current magazines and observations of the columnist. A—Excellent; B—Good; C—Fair; D—Poor.)

“THE BRIDE WORE RED”
Joan Crawford and Franchot Tone. This is one of Miss Crawford’s best productions, and comes close to an "A" rating.
She takes the part of “Anni,” a singer in a low cafe who becomes a great lady living amid luxuries
and lavish surroundings for a month. She realizes in the end that true love is found in a simple life.

“LIFE BEGINS IN COLLEGE”
The Ritz Brothers, John Davis, Fay Martin, and Gloria Stuart. The Ritz Brothers practically make this show by themselves, and
if the rating were based on comedy alone it would certainly deserve an “A”. The Brothers are tailors working their
way through college. They befriend an Indian student that later turns out to be a millionaire who more than helps
them with their finances. The climax is reached on the gridiron where their crazy football antics will keep you rolling
with laughter.

“Music FOR MADAM”
Nino Martini, and Joan Fontaine. Critics are of the opinion that this production is a little weak in all departments.
Martini plays the part of a tenor trying to crash the movies. His efforts get him mixed up with a
band of jewel thieves.

To freshman mister Snelling.

ATTENTION!!
To Well Dressed Men
6% Discount To 1st 5 Men Buying Storrs-Schaefer Suits and Overcoats Monday 18th and Tuesday 19th
WILLIAMS & NICHOLSON
Kappa Snappa House

Sodas
Stationery
Candy
Toiletries
Magazines
WHITE DRUG STORE
DAVIDSON, N.C.
“Davidson’s Oldest and Best”
