WEDNESDAY, APRIL 7, 1937 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Four Davidson Students To Receive Scholarships

Lafferty, Bradley, Link, and Vass Awarded Aid Toward Future Studies

TRIO STUDY CHEMISTRY

Awards Amount to Almost $1,680 Actual Cash

Four Davidson seniors have already been awarded graduate fellowships or scholarships for the school year of 1937-38. R. H. Lafferty, H. W. Bradley, and W. C. Link will continue their study in advanced chemistry, while L. C. Vass will prepare for the ministry.

Lafferty has received a $500 teaching fellowship at Cornell University, Ithaca, N. Y. While on this fellowship he will be able to carry a two-thirds normal course load. In addition to the stipend, this award carries with it free tuition and laboratory fees. As yet, notification that Lafferty has been accepted is still unofficial, the official acceptance being dependent upon successful graduation of the applicant.

Link will go to the University of Virginia on a DuPont junior fellowship, worth $330. Bradley also goes to Virginia, but on a musical fellowship. His duties will include instruction in music equivalent to slightly less working time than an assistantship in chemistry. His award is valued at $600.

Patterson Scholarship

Vass has been named one of the recipients of the Patterson Contributory Scholarships to Louisville Presbyterian Seminary. This scholarship takes care of all his fees, with the exception of a student body assessment. While in Davidson, Vass has been aided by this scholarship, which donates $250 yearly to the student’s undergraduate expenses. The basis for this award is that the student, a candidate for the Presbyterian ministry through Louisville Seminary, take three years each of college Latin and Greek.

Bradley, while here, has been president of the band, president of Gamma Sigma Epsilon (honorary chemical fraternity), and assistant in chemistry. He was recently elected to membership in Phi Beta Kappa.

Howard Scholarship

Lafferty, member of Pi Kappa Alpha social fraternity, was awarded the David H. Howard Memorial Scholarship this year, given to the senior most likely to succeed in chemistry. He is a laboratory assistant in chemistry and a member of Gamma Sigma Epsilon. Link is a member of Eumenean Literary Society and of Gamma Sigma Epsilon. Vass is now president of the Ministerial Band. He is a football letterman, varsity wrestler, and a member of the Photographic Club.

DUKE TEACHER WILL TALK TO STUDENTS

Talk Will Be Made on Rhodes Scholarships By Former Davidson Man

Dr. G. R. Vowles stated on Monday that Professor Shelby T. McCloy of the Department of History at Duke University, will speak on Rhodes Scholarships here in the near future. The date for Professor McCloy’s lecture will probably be Monday, April 19, although it has not yet been definitely set. This lecture will be of special interest to juniors and seniors, but all of the student body is cordially invited. Professor McCloy is a Davidson alumnus and was a Rhodes Scholar from Arkansas about 1919.

NATIONAL SPRING HATS

National Hat Shops
108 So. Tryon St.
Complete Line of Hats, Shirts, and Ties

Viehman Issues Call For Centennial Cast

One hundred speaking parts are open in the Centennial pageant. Mr. Viehman intends to hold tryouts for any and all students interested in applying for these parts. Tryouts will be held in the Eumenean Literary Society Hall tomorrow, Thursday, afternoon, at 3:05 o'clock and all are urged to come. Mr. Viehman says he will hear all who come down. Characters of all types and kinds are needed to fill out the cast and voices are to be judged upon quality and diction, and no loudness is required. Professor Erwin is in charge of casting.

DR. LINGLE DISPLAYS UNIQUE DOCUMENTS IN COLLEGE LIBRARY

Copy of First Diploma Issued By College Is Among Collection

NEW BOOKS PURCHASED

Records Show Tuition Now Higher Than in 1837

On display this week in the library is a collection of old Davidson College documents and papers belonging to Dr. Walter L. Lingle. These documents include one of the first diplomas issued. It is interesting to note in this connection that the first class was not the class of 1837, but the class of 1840. No graduation exercises were held until 1840, when the first class received their diplomas, one of which is now on display.

Slave Release

There is also a slave release written and signed by Maxwell Chambers, who donated the bulk of the cost of old Chambers building. A receipt for tuition paid in September of 1837 shows that tuition in those days was somewhat lower than today. A report on the college by a committee of the Fayetteville Presbytery shows that four faculty members were considered a reasonable size and that two dollars was considered not too much to ask for room rent. Other papers give further insight into life at Davidson in the early days.

The jacket display this week represents books purchased recently by various academic departments, those of most general interest being a number of interesting and helpful books bought by the English department. The upstairs bulletin board holds several jackets from books bought by the foreign language departments.

New Books

Some new books purchased this year which have not been mentioned in these columns before are: “New Light on Hebrew Origins,” by J. Garrow Duncan; Hugh Walpole’s “A Prayer for My Son;” Lloyd George’s War Memoirs for the final months of the war, 1918; “Planning Under Capitalism,” by A. W. Rather, and the 1936 edition of Chemical Formulary, containing new formulas, new methods, and new chemicals.

During the course of the year, the library has added to its lists several new magazines. The new “Life” and “Scribner's” have come as continuations of the older magazines by those names. “Coronet” is now subscribed to, as well as “Asia.” Several of the new “Digests” which are now flooding the market are also being received. A number of back numbers have been bound, including the “Reader’s Digest.”

Professor Davidson is continuing his duties as librarian in spite of his added burden of two classes in the History department.

HELPS PREVENT MANY COLDS

Especially designed aid for nose and upper throat, where most colds start.
Regular Size....30¢
Double Quantity 50¢
VICKS VA-TRO-NOL

DR. CALDWELL SPEAKS TO MINISTERIAL BAND ON SEMINARY CHOICE

Warns Ministerial Students Against Being Misled By Unsound Advice

ADVISES INVESTIGATION

Speaks at Salisbury Before Coming Here

Frank H. Caldwell, president of Louisville Theological Seminary, talked to the Ministerial Band at 2:30 last Sunday afternoon in the Social Center on the subject, “Choosing Your Seminary.”

During his talk, Dr. Caldwell warned the members of the band against being led into by unsound advice, and told how to choose the right school. One should not enter a seminary simply because one’s pastor or friends advise it, he explained.

Location and Cost

“Also,” he said, “do not enter a seminary because of the location, or because it is near home. And do not consider the cost much, for practically all are about the same in this respect.”seminary he advised the group to investigate the prospective institution carefully. “Look into its faculty, its curriculum, and especially see whether or not its student body is cosmopolitan,” he said. Dr. Caldwell also pointed out the fact that, generally speaking, it is best to go into the seminary directly from college, instead of waiting one or two years as many do. He explained that students who wait often get side-tracked into other occupations and give up the ministry.

Answers Questions
After his address he opened the floor for discussion, and replied to questions on seminary life and other aspects of Louisville Seminary. Before coming to Davidson to talk to the Ministerial Band, Dr. Caldwell preached at the Sunday morning service of the Presbyterian Church in Salisbury. After delivering the sermon at vespers here Sunday night, he left for Winston-Salem. It was also brought out at the meeting that Ward 1 of the Mecklenburg Sanatorium had requested four more Sunday School teachers. Two of these, D. A. McLean and D. D. McInnis, have already been secured, and the officers of the Ministerial Band will appreciate volunteers for the other two positions. The next meeting of the Band will be held on Sunday afternoon, April 18.

BOWERY BALL WILL BE HELD ON MAY 7
Military Ball To Precede Annual Gala Event

Clear decks and stand by for May 7 and 8; for on that weekend the Pan-Hellenic Council brings to a close the Davidson social season with their traditional Bowery Ball, preceded by the Scabbard and Blade sponsored Military Ball on Friday night. Unfortunately, the weekend is the same selected for the Kentucky Derby; but “if you think the horses are swift, you ain’t seen nothin’ yet...” a Council member predicts. Always the college’s most popular dance set, no effort is being spared to make this one the biggest and best ever. Featured Friday night will be the Scabbard and Blade figure headed by members of the battalion staff. Saturday night will be devoted to the more informal fun and weird costumes which have made “Bowery Ball” a synonym for good times in the Carolinas. A prize will be offered for the most original costumes. As usual, dances will be held in (Continued on Page 6)

NATIONAL ODK PRESIDENT
Walker and Rice Elected Y.M.C.A. Vice-Presidents

Three Ballots Necessary to Eliminate Other Six Candidates in Race
WALKER TOPS VOTING
Three Nominees Eliminated In First Ballot

Thomas E., “Boo” Walker, and Sherrard Rice were elected vice presidents of the Davidson Y.M.C.A. in the run-off which was held on the Wednesday before the Spring Holidays began. Walker polled the greater number of votes and is therefore first vice president, while Rice is second vice president. Walker polled 268 votes and Rice received 259, Warren Gaw, the other survivor in the race, was given 217 votes. There were originally eight candidates, and three ballots were necessary to eliminate the six losers. Those who were nominated for the office were the following: Al Bixler, Warren Gaw, John Reisner, Sherrard Rice, Walker, Locke White, Rodman Williams, and John Wilson. The second ballot was between Gaw, Reisner, Rice, Walker, and White. This vote narrowed the field down to three men.

JUNIOR ROTC BOYS TO ATTEND CAMP
Sore arms and tall stories looking gentlemen that you have been seeing recently are our future cadet officers, who are preparing for a summer of fun, in accordance with the R.O.T.C. regulations, this prospective cannon fodder must serve six weeks at Fort McClellan, preferably between their junior and senior years. There they will receive practical instruction in the art of war. Already Major Seifert has regaled them with tales of life at this delightful summer resort. The sore arms are results of the regulation requiring trainees to be inoculated for typhoid and smallpox. They have also organized a Junior platoon which will enter the competitive drill at the camp. Fort McClellan is a post known for its delightful summer climate. It is also renowned for its conditioning abilities. As one of the instructors last year was heard to remark: “Another week of this and we'll be ready for a tour of duty in Hades.”

EXPERT WORKMANSHIP
HIGHEST QUALITY
BUFF SHOE SHOP
HALF SOLES HEELS
O. C. BUFF, Prop.

Organists Gather In Charlotte Recently
At the spring meeting of the North Carolina chapter of the American Guild of Organists in Charlotte last week, Eugene Craft of Charlotte was elected dean of the North Carolina chapter and James Christian Pfohl of Davidson was elected sub-dean. Other officers elected were: Mrs. A. Honeycutt, of Lexington, secretary, and Miss Mary F. Cash, of Salem College, treasurer. An illustrated lecture on “Organs I Have Known in Two Continents,” was given by Professor Jan Phillips Schinham of the University of North Carolina. After Professor Schinham's lecture, the meeting continued with further discussions and presentations.

Next time you see Edmund Lowe on the screen remember that he holds two degrees from Santa Clara University. Philip Merivale says: “My throat’s grateful for Luckies. An independent survey was made recently among professional men and women—lawyers, doctors, lecturers, scientists, etc. Of those who said they smoke cigarettes, more than 87% stated they personally prefer a light smoke. Mr. Merivale verifies the wisdom of this preference, and so do other leading artists of the radio, stage, screen, and opera. Their voices are their fortunes. That’s why so many of them smoke Luckies. You, too, can have the throat protection of Luckies—a light smoke, free of certain harsh irritants removed by the exclusive process ‘It’s Toasted’. Luckies are gentle on the throat.

A Light Smoke
“It’s Toasted”—Your Throat Protection AGAINST IRRITATION—AGAINST COUGH

In one of the first important parts I did in America, the play called for a long and very trying individual performance. In every scene for five full acts I was talking almost continuously. The strain made it imperative that I safeguard my throat and voice. After trying different brands of cigarettes, I came across Luckies. They stood the test and for many years now I’ve enjoyed them. I like the taste of Luckies and my throat is grateful for a light smoke.”

THE FINEST TOBACCOS— “THE CREAM OF THE CROP”
Copyright 1937. The American Tobacco Company