THE DAVIDSONIAN

HONORS BY A. C. P. IS GIVEN FIRST CLASS

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

The Davidsonian

WATSON STREET IS CHOSEN BY SENIORS AS FROSH ADVISOR

VOL. XXV DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., APRIL 21, 1937 NO. 1

WATSON STREET TO BE FRESHMAN HEAD FOR INCOMING YEAR

Will Act in Capacity of Advisor to Freshmen and Aid In Orientation

DORSETT IS RUNNER-UP

Is First Man to Hold New Office on Campus

Watson Street was elected freshman advisor for the coming year by fellow members of the rising senior class in a
race concluded last Monday morning. Street won by the narrow margin of only two votes over his nearest rival, James
K. Dorsett, the winner polling 61 votes to his opponent’s 59. Nominees for the position were as follows: Watson Street,
Monroe Wicker, Charles Brown, Lawrence Reid, Bill Kiesewetter, Hector McGeachy, Jim Dorsett, and Major Clark. Clark, McGeachy and Kiesewetter were
eliminated in the first run-off and were followed in the second by Reid. On the third ballot Wicker and Brown
were put out, and it was on the fourth ballot that Street was elected.

Street is from Talladega, Ala. He is a ministerial student and is a member of the ministerial band. For some
time he has been active in Y. M. C. A. work, serving on the Y cabinet this year. He holds
the position of student assistant in Bible. Street is prominent in church work, holding several offices. He is president of
the Young People’s League of the synod of Alabama, and last year was elected Assembly's president in Montreat, North Carolina.
Street will succeed Jim Morton, who served as freshman adviser this year.

DAVIDSONIAN AWARDED HONOR RATING AMONG ALL COLLEGE WEEKLIES

Collegiate Press Association Makes Annual Ranking Of Members

EDITORIAL PAGE IS BEST

Work Graded By A.C.P. Under Four Separate Heads

The Davidsonian has been again awarded the coveted first class honor rating by the Associate Collegiate Press, Editor Morton was
informed recently. The A. C. P. conducts a grading of each one of its members every year, and the rating
they get gives them their rating for the next year. This first class honor rating was among college weeklies, and
is equivalent to Excellent. Only four other N. C. college weeklies received a similar rating. They were: “Carolinian,” of N.
C. C. W.; “Hi-Po” of High Point College; “Old Gold and Black,” Wake Forest, and “Technician,” of N. C. State.
There is a higher rating, All-American, but no North Carolina weekly received it.

Morton also received a list of the rankings of 201 of the 355 A. C. P. members, which showed that
only 47 college papers got All-American, while 120 were worthy of first class honor rating. Seven were designated as Pacemakers.

Every year the A. C. P. publishes a revised and up-to-date edition of its manual and scorebook, containing advice on
better methods, and their system of scoring the actual work. This system of scoring is done under four different heads:
1. News value, 2. Writing and editing the news, 3. Headlines and Make-up, and 4. Department pages and special features.
A certain number of points, totaling 1000, is allotted to each head and the total obtained by each newspaper is
its ranking. The total of the Davidsonian was 680, enough to gain them first class rating. According to the comments
of the judges, the editorial page and special features were the best parts of the paper.

ADVISER

Watson Street, elected Freshman Adviser for next year in voting by members of the rising Senior Class on Monday morning,
April 19.

PAN-HELLENIC INAUGURATES CONSTITUTION

Greeks Have Interfraternity Constitution For First Time

With ratification by Beta Theta Pi at special meetings called Tuesday, Davidson letter organizations possessed an interfraternity Constitution for the
first time since their founding on campus. Drawn by the Pan-Hellenic Council of 1936-37 and ratified by a majority of
the chapters Thursday night, the Constitution of the Pan-Hellenic Council of Davidson College makes little change in the present Council
set-up, striving rather to define and set down in writing such traditions of its organization and government as already exist.
There is one most important change, however, the several chapters have agreed to co-underwrite future Pan-Hellenic dances and share with
their representatives fifty percent of losses or gains.

Constitution In Brief

Membership: All present chapters (Continued on Page 6)

DAVIDSON COLLEGE TO HAVE SPECIAL SECTION

Sunday Charlotte News to Carry Davidson Edition

Davidson College is to have a special section in one of the future editions of The Sunday Charlotte News, it
was announced this week. The actual writing of the articles is to be in charge of Fred Smith, alumni secretary,
and “Tiger” Jim Morton, past editor of The Davidsonian. This section is going to be of the insert type, and
will come in addition to the regular News. Its purpose is to acquaint the friends of the college, and all
those interested, of the plans for the Centennial program, the pressing needs of the college, and its plans for the
future.

Morton has recruited several more of those working on the Davidsonian to write most of the articles. He said that
he was going to give out assignments soon so that work could be started immediately, and more time be devoted
to polishing up the articles and insuring greater accuracy. All material will be in by May 25th, and after being
checked over carefully, will be sent to Charlotte and printed for the special edition.

FOUNDERS DAY IS TO BE KEPT TOMORROW ALL OVER THE WORLD

Address By Dr. Currie to Be Main Feature of the Program

GIVE COLLEGE’S HISTORY

Students to Get Short Holiday Tomorrow

Founder's Day, commemorating the founding of Davidson 100 years ago this April, will be observed tomorrow by Davidson men throughout
the world. An address by Prof. Archibald Currie at the regular chapel hour will be the main feature of the
program, and a short holiday will be given the students, lasting until noon. Prof. Currie will speak upon the history
of Davidson and its service to the nation. Dr. Lingle will deliver a short address.

Perhaps here, and also at various alumni chapters, Davidson faculty will attend the meetings in order to participate. Prof. Florence,
Prof. Bailey, together with Mr. McKever, are expected to be present at the large gathering in Birmingham, and Prof. Spearman
at the meeting in Asheville. Other large gatherings are expected in Chapel Hill, Fayetteville, Memphis, and Jackson. Some of the
alumni chapter meetings celebrating Founder's Day on Friday are: Morganton, Hickory, Lenoir, and Marion.

Pageant Moves Forward Under Direction of Viehman

BUCK POWELL IS SELECTED PRESIDENT SOPHOMORE CLASS

Buck Powell defeated Sam Spencer for the presidency of the rising sophomore class 82 to 80 in voting Wednesday morning
after being tied Tuesday with 82 each. Charles Mashburn was elected vice-president, and Tom Finlay was elected secretary-treasurer. In previous
voting, Powell is a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity and was on the freshman football team. Mashburn is
a member of Phi Delta Theta social fraternity and freshman baseball team. Finlay is a member of Phi Gamma Delta
social fraternity and is a reporter on The Davidsonian.

STUDENTS REQUIRED TO REGISTER NOW

All students in the three lower classes who are present on the campus are required to register this week. In
accordance with a faculty regulation, a fine will be imposed on those who do not take advantage of this period
to sign up for their next year’s courses and register late. So announced F. W. Hengeveld, registrar of the college
today. Mr. Hengeveld also stated that a tentative schedule for the school year 1937-38 has been posted in the lobby
of Chamber's building. He advised those freshmen who are having difficulty in selecting their next year's courses to consult their
faculty advisors.

CLINE AND THOMPSON DIE IN AUTO MISHAP IN MATTHEWS; McMILLAN SERIOUSLY INJURED

DECEASED STUDENTS

Patterson, Sellars, Branton Accompany Thompson’s Body to Texas

McMILLAN IS IMPROVING

Many Students Attend Cline’s Funeral Sunday

Two students of Davidson College, Archie Campbell Cline, Jr., and Hoxie M. Thompson, Jr., were killed and another, David McMillan,
was seriously injured late Friday night, April 16, when the automobile in which they were riding failed to round a
curve on the Charlotte-Matthews road. Archie Campbell Cline, Jr. was the son of Mr. and Mrs. Campbell Cline of Concord,
and is survived by his parents and sister, MissSenior class elected Mike Cline. He was a member of the Junior
class and of the Pi Kappa Alpha social fraternity, and was nominated for the following men to serve on the
council next year: Charlie Brown, Jim Dorsett, Tip Harrison, Law Archie Campbell Cline, Jr., (left above) and Hoxie H. Thompson,
a cadet first sergeant. Cline and Thompson (right) were killed in an automobile accident late Friday night. Cline was a
Junior here, and Thompson was a Senior. David McMillan, a Sophomore, narrowly escaped and is now in a Charlotte hospital
recovering from injuries. (Courtesy The Charlotte Observer).

Cline was a member of Scabbard and Blade, and a student assistant to Dr. K. Yates Faison. Haywood Hill, Pete
McKnight, and Dick Vowles were also nominated for these positions. Wade Barrow, president of the Senior class, and Teeny Lafferty,
president of the Junior class, will be installed soon.

McCLOY LECTURES ON OXFORD AND RHODES SCHOLARSHIP MONDAY

Installation of Student Body officers and other officers will probably be held Thursday, according to an announcement made by Wilbur
Edwards, the student body president. At the ceremonies, the officers of the following activities will be installed in the respective
order in which they are named: First, the student body officers, then Senior Class, Y. M. C. A., Davidsonian, Athletic
Association, the rest of the class officers, the Annual, and the Magazine Student Council. The program of the installation will
be held at the regular chapel period.

Dr. Jason McCloy, a Duke Professor, explained the weather conditions and tutorial systems of Oxford. Dr. McCloy, a Rhodes Scholar
to Oxford in 1919, received his doctorate degree at Harvard University. He addressed the age-old traditions of Oxford, stating, "Every
student must be in his college by midnight." He explained that if a student wishes to have a date, he
must first get permission from the head of her college if she lives at the university.

Abbott Elected Vice-President; Marquess Secretary-Treasurer

Ray Pittman was elected president of the Centennial class on the second ballot, leaving Harper Beall and Sam Spencer as
the other nominees. The rising Sophomore representative, David McMillan, is recovering in a Charlotte hospital after an accident. The driver,
Sprunt Spencer, was elected on the second ballot. The accident occurred when the car struck a curve with such force
that it overturned.

The election for the Magazine was held, and the candidates were Ryburn, Covington, and Rader. Abbott was elected Vice-President, and
Marquess was elected Secretary-Treasurer. Professor Fleagle, chairman of the faculty committee, announced that Professor W. D. Hemphill of the University
of Virginia had been secured for the history department next year. Professor Hemphill is the son of Rev. J. Edwin
Hemphill, D.D., of Petersburg, Va., who graduated from Davidson in 1907.

DEBATE WITH TECH

The debate over the question, "That Congress Should Be Empowered to Fix Minimum Wages and Maximum Hours for Industry," was
held on April 15. Davidson's affirmative team, represented by Mauze and Hill, debated against Georgia Tech. Mauze argued the benefits
of such legislation, while Hill emphasized the practical benefits for labor, capital, and the nation. The debate was significant, with
no decision rendered.

Professor Fleagle also clarified that the parts in the Centennial Pageant are open to all classes, not just seniors. The
pageant will include a masque representing Davidson's present and future, with representatives from various social and honorary fraternities and clubs.
These representatives are to be introduced with their preferred manner and wording. Organizations are requested to submit their introductions to
Professor Erwin of the Book Committee.
