THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 1937
Page Four

DAVIDSON WINS DECISIVELY FROM DEACON QUINTET
WILDCATS FACE COLLEGE OF CHARLESTON HERE TONIGHT

SPORTS AFIELD

CATS DOWN WAKE FOREST CAGERS 43-31
By PERRY SLOAN

It is gratifying to see the varsity cagers convert their potential power into headlines. The Wildcats felt their strength over at Wake Forest last week-end and now seem to have actual stride which is expected to place them very much in the running when the tape is reached. The ‘Cats must take one more conference game to cinch a berth in the meet at Memorial Auditorium in Raleigh on the fifth and sixth of March. Coach Eddie Cameron of Duke, chairman of the Southern Conference basketball committee, has appointed Dr. R. R. Sermon of State to make arrangements for the playoff. The drawing will be made at College Park, Md., (during the conference boxing tourney there) among the first eight teams in the final standing and the complete schedule will be announced Feb. 27th. Our prediction is that Washington and Lee, South Carolina, and either Maryland or Richmond will scrap it out with our Big Five for the title. All officiating has been wisely put into the hands of M. P. “Footsie” Knight from the Durham “Y,” Gummy Proctor from Richmond, and Paul Menton, a Baltimore sports scribe.

While on the subject of the hardwood game some people want to know what the ’Kittens have been playing recently? The prize boner goes to Bennett Harrison who scored his only field goal of the Davidson-Wake Forest game for the Baby Deacs. This brings to mind an incident that happened in the Duke-Davidson frosh football game which was played in Asheville a few years back: Late in the game after the sun had sunk behind a ridge Davidson had the ball deep in her own territory. A double reverse was called and in the course of events a Blue Imp lineman knifed into the play, received the ball intended for a ‘Kitten back and headed for his goal; but before he had gotten a good start one of his teammates broke through and brought him down, mistaking him for a Davidson man in the dusk. Well, we guess that one kind deed deserves another.

Casting an eye on events closer by, we find track, baseball, tennis, and golf invading the campus. All of these will be taken care of in their time, so let’s mention some sports that we would like to see invade our list of extra-curricular activities. Judging from the popularity of the equipment in the old gym and the skill with which certain students perform on it we believe that a competitive gym team would be a credit to the college. Traveling with the cage squad or mat team they would spice up the program and increase attendance if played up in good fashion. The suggestion will probably die with this issue of The Davidsonian, but there are some who would like to see the idea mature. It can be arranged because some of the cage attractions feature such performances during the half period.

DRY GOODS GROCERIES RADIO SUPPLIES HARDWARE
M. H. GOODRUM & CO.
Zenith & RCA Radios

TEAMS IN HIGH FLIGHT
CONFERENCE

Davidson Rushes to Prominence By Series of Victories
HEELS FACE GENERALS
Quints Vie For Berth in Final Tournament

Washington and Lee, North Carolina, Duke, and North Carolina State cinched top ranking positions in the Southern Conference race during the past week. The race between these teams is far from decided as is also the case among the next six teams in Conference standing. Features of the week's play were the defeat of the top ranking quintet from W. and L. by the Duke Blue Devils and Carolina's subsequent impressive win over Duke. This established the White Phantoms as the outstanding favorites in the forthcoming tournament at Raleigh. The one-sided triumph of Davidson over favored Wake Forest in the Deacon's lair, and South Carolina's victory over the State Red Terrors had an important bearing on the Conference race.

By far, the most important game of the week will be the meeting between North Carolina White Phantoms, who have been on a rampage lately, and the league-leading Generals of W. and L. in Lynchburg Saturday night in the game which will determine the tournament favorite. First, however, the Generals will have a chance to avenge their lone defeat when they meet Duke at Lexington on Tuesday night. State must win from both Duke and Wake Forest this week to remain in the Conference race. Davidson's stirring win over the smooth Cadet team after trailing at the mid-way mark, coupled with their victories over Carolina and the Demon Deacons will go a long way toward cinching a berth in the tournament.

The wiser followers of the Southern Conference have finally been overheard in their side-line selection for the tourney. The following eight teams have been honored in this gossip circle: North Carolina, Duke, North Carolina State, Washington and Lee, Wake Forest, Davidson, South Carolina, and Maryland.

KITTENS LOSE TWO BIG FIVE TILTS
Davidson Freshmen Show Power in Clash With State

The Davidson freshman basketball team dropped two contests to powerful Big Five opponents last week. The first loss was to the Junior Wolves of North Carolina State. Both teams played a good brand of ball during the first half and at its close only three points separated the opponents. At the opening of the last stanza the State Frosh began using their superior height to advantage and ran up a lead that could not be overcome. The Kittens made a determined bid toward the close of the contest but the gap was too great to close, and State left winner by eleven points.

In their meeting with the Demon Deacons of Wake Forest the Kittens lost by an overwhelming score. The little Deacons, showing what is probably the best freshman club in North Carolina, exhibited a well-knit attack backed by a powerful defense to walk off with the honors. At the beginning of the second half the Kittens seemed to come to life for a brief period and started hitting the basket, but otherwise

WILDCAT CAGE ACES
Southern Conference. Above is pictured the Wildcats’ cage quintet, which now stands among the first eight places in the Left to right, they are: Maurice Peabody, forward; J. D. H. Hicks, center; Ned Iverson, forward; John Armstrong, guard; and Bill Quick, guard. Fresh from a 46-31 victory over the Deacons Saturday night they defeated Citadel here 46-34 Monday night. They have had an unusually heavy schedule this year with a number of tilts off their home campus.

McCLELLAND CALLS FOR VARSITY GOLF MEN TO START GETTING READY
Tryouts Will Be Held at Carolina Club, Charlotte, March 1-13

Ralph McClelland, captain of this year’s varsity golf team, issued a call in chapel Tuesday for applicants for this year’s team. Tryouts for the team will be held from March 1st to 13th at the Carolina Golf Club in Charlotte. This was a call for all men to get in shape, who expect to go out for the team. The play will be 72 holes medal play, and the low four will compose this year’s varsity.

Four lettermen returned to school this year. These were Maples, McClelland, Ross, and Snow; and these men are expected to form a good nucleus for the varsity this year. Combined with members of the strong freshman team last year and some upperclassmen, this year’s golf team is expected to be among the best since the sport started here. McClelland, Ross, and Snow have played together for the last three years.

New this year will be a “B” team. After the four low men are selected for the varsity, the next four will compose this team, the number one man of the “B” team being varsity alternate. There will be three matches here before spring holidays with Catawba, on March 20; and also Hampden-Sydney, and the University of Richmond. The schedule as a whole has not been worked out as yet, but Davidson is expected to enter as usual in the Southern Conference tournament, and the Southeastern Intercollegiate tournament in Athens, Ga. McClelland says that it is hoped that strongerInterest will be manifested, and it is urged that as many as possible try out for the team. The golf team last year had the best record of any spring sports team, winning 14 out of 18 matches, and placing second in the state tournament. In golf, yet, state tournament, their marksmanship seemed to be off. On the trip, the play of Thomas, Tenney, Harrison, and Glenn stood out.

415 South Tryon Street
FAUL & CRYMES, INC.
SPORTING GOODS
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Tourney Here Moves Slowly
Y. M. C. A. Sponsoring Table Tennis Tournament

The first official table tennis tournament here is moving rather slowly with only ten of the 60 entrants in the second round so far. The games are conducted under the auspices of the local Y. M. C. A. It is one of many college tournaments now being sponsored over the nation by the magazine College Humor. The champion and runner-up of the ping pong artists will receive gold and silver inscribed medals respectively. Both will also receive a year's membership in the U. S. Table Tennis Association, numbering 3000 members in 26 states and a year’s subscription to the association’s publication, Table Tennis Topics. In order to receive these awards, however, the tournament must be played under rules furnished by College Humor, which are: All first-round matches must be 2 out of 3, 21 point games, and be played off by Tuesday, February 16; the semi-finals must be 3 out of 5 games, all the games to be played on regulation tables. Haywood Hill and Harry Frampton are serving as authorities on rules of the game.

A “No Cigarette Bumming League” has been formed on the campus of Louisiana State University. League members promised not to bum or be bummed from. Bumming of “drags” is permitted.

Wildcat Varsity Matmen Fight V.P.I. Team to Tie
Freshmen Wrestlers Lose to Barium Springs For Second Time

On Tuesday night, February 9, the Davidson Varsity wrestling team was fought to a draw by the team of the Virginia Polytechnic Institute. The match was held at Davidson, with the score being 14 to 14. The following is a summary of the matches: 118 lb. Starr (VPI) defeated Blue (D) by a fall in 8:45; 126 lb., Pittman (VPI) defeated Lowrance with a time advantage of 8:30; 135 lb., Sears (D) defeated Evans, fall, 5:55; 145 lb., Parker (D) gained a time advantage of 7:06 on Jordan; 155 lb., Gooden (VPI) won over Fort by a fall in 2:16; 165 lb., Ellis (D) beat Tokanz by a time advantage of 1:45; 175 lb. Tsourounis (VPI) gained time on Vass by 33 seconds. In the unlimited class, McFadyen continued his unbroken string of victories by defeating Davis with a fall in 0:59.

Davidson’s Wildkitten wrestlers lost their second match with Barium Springs last Wednesday night at Barium Springs. The score was 30 to 0. The following is a summary of the matches: 118 lb., McKenzie (B) threw Masters in 6:03; 125 lb., Beshears (B) won by a fall from Wells in 35 seconds; 135 lb., Bosworth (B) defeated Crabb by a fall in 6:05; 145 lb., Donaldson (B) threw Isom in 5:19; 155 lb., Bolton (B) threw Willis in 3:34; 165 lb., Sigmon (B) gained a time advantage over Watkins in 5:50; and in the unlimited class, Barium Springs forfeited to Davidson.

Report: OX, Jimmy’s Good,
HANGING around, all wide-open-eared, we’ve been doing lots of listening to what people say about Jimmy Livingston and his band. Not dancers only, the “just-listeners.” We think we’ve gotten the low-down, and we The outfit plays in the Main Dining Room every day at Luncheon (65c) and at Dinner ($1). The evening hour for ’em is 7 to 9, except on Saturdays when it’s—whoops—7 to 11. No cover charge, or anything of that kind. And the meals, really, are splendid. We mean to say, you can’t top them in Charlotte. We’d—excuse our mentioning it—we’d like to see a lot MORE Davidsonians in the Main Dining Room. How about getting your date on your arm, and showing us two more?

HOTEL CHARLOTTE

They Tell Us too.

The GRIDMEN
An ACTIVE UNDER COACH McEVER
To Play Practice Game Saturday; New Coach To Be Added

Gene McEver, newly appointed Davidson football coach, resumed the spring football practice Monday and stated that the practice will go on straight on through until he thinks the squad has had enough. Practice has been taken up right where it was left off two weeks ago, and the squad will be especially worked this week in preparation for the first practice game, which is to take place on Richardson Field Saturday afternoon at 3:30. These scrimmage games will be held each week, and it is probable that the entire work for the squad will be finished by the spring holidays.

After a recommendation by the Athletic Council, line coach Gene McEver and Coach Chet Chapman were elevated to head coaching positions respectively by the college. The possibility of the addition of a third coach to the football tutoring staff is very probable. If he is added, however, it will not be until next fall.

Among those who have signed up for practice are: Beatty, Bolin, A. Brown, Cagle, Davis, Dennis, Dixon, Dailey, Ferguson, Gasteiger, Goodman, Bob Greene, Gilmore, Graham, Harris, Harrison, Hand, Hill, Hunter, Jeter, B. Johnston, S. Johnson, Joyner, Lafferty, H. Miller, R. Miller, McClintock, D. McClain, B. McClellan, H. McCall, McGeachy, A. McLean, Matthis, Moore, Pennington, Powell, Plonk, Richmond, Rice, Rhodes, Rudisill, Ryburn, Sample, Stair, Sprunt, J. Smith, Summerrell, B. Williams, Warden, and Winters.

Ned Iverson Leads Cats; Waller’s Scoring Curbed
Deacons Rally Late in Game But Fail to Overcome Wildcat Lead
TICE COVERS WALLER
Teams to Play Decisive Game Here Saturday

With Ned Iverson and Johnny Tice in the hero roles, Davidson’s cagers romped to a 43-31 victory over the Deacons in Wake Forest Saturday night. Coach Laird used a bit of strategy and started the diminutive Tice, scrappy sub forward, at guard, with orders to stop Jimmy Waller, sensational sophomore who has been averaging 14 points a game. Tice did a beautiful job of guarding him until he fouled out. Then John Armstrong took his place and also turned in a very creditable performance. While these two were holding Waller to three field goals, Iverson was ringing up nine for a total of 18 points to walk away with high scoring honors. Waller and Morris of Wake Forest tied for the runner-up position with 11 points each, closely followed by J. D. Hicks, Davidson center, with 10. Davidson led, 28 to 17 at the half and ran its lead up 13 more points before the Deacons scored in the second half. With ten minutes to play, the home team rallied, but was unable to overtake the fast-moving Wildcats.

(Continued on Page 6)

EXPERT WORKMANSHIP
HIGHEST QUALITY
BUFF SHOE SHOP
HALFSOLES HEELS
O. C. BUFF, Prop.

It Lets You SEE When to Refill —hence won’t run dry in classes or exams

Yes, thousands of students start to rate higher when they replace their old “blind-barrel” with this new Parker Vacumatic. This is because it is people who are capable of rating high who go for this Pen in a big way, and because it is this kind of Pen—and only this kind—that can bring out the best that is in them.

Its Scratch-Proof Point of Plathenium, We like pens that hide the ink within the barrel, this laminated Pearl Beauty lets you SEE Days Ahead when it’s getting low. When TIRE Ink Supply—holds 102% more ink than Placotyle. It’s the pen that received more votes than any other TWO makes of Pens COMBINED when 30 College Papers asked 4,699 students which pen do you own?” It was awarded by the All-America Board of Football to 90 nominees for the All-America Team of 1936. Go at once to any good store selling pens and try this revolutionary invention. Identify the genuine Parker Vacumatic by its smart ARROW Clip,—this holds this Pen low and SAFE in the pocket. The Parker Pen Co., Janesville, Wis.

Cleans Your Pen As It Writes
Parker Quink, quick drying, cleans your pen as it writes. Dissolves sediment left by pen-clogging inks. Works like a charm. 15c and 25c.

To Star in Your School Work
BACK YOUR BRAINS WITH THE ALL-STAR PEN
Scratch-Proof Point of Solid Gold
Parker Vacumatic