AND A MERRY HOLIDAYS HAPPY EASTER LUX UBI ORTA Che Mabidsontan « ALENDA LIBERTAS BODY ELECTIONS STUDENT ADVANCE VOL. XXIV
DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., MARCH 24, 1937 NO. 22

“BUCK” CURRIE SPEAKS IN SPRING SERIES OF SERVICES HELD BY “Y”

Rev. A. L. Currie Delivers Six Speeches From Tuesday To Thursday

PREACHES AT VESPERS

Story of Nicodemus Given in Dramatic Monologue

Rev. A. L. “Buck” Currie completed his set of spring services for the Y. M. C. A. Thursday evening, March
18, with an address on the subject “The Lights of the World.” That morning he had given a dramatic monologue,
presenting the story of Nicodemus; and the evening before, he had told “How We May Keep Our Hearts.” Throughout the
entire series of six services, morning and evening from Tuesday through Thursday of last week, Mr. Currie tried to show
the student body how to live, using as his pattern that master of living, Jesus Christ.

Wednesday evening the speaker showed that Christ had always been able to keep His heart through all the temptations He
had to endure on this earth. Christ never weakened. This was due, said Mr. Currie, to two things. In the
first place, Christ never forgot that God made all things, no matter how bad they seemed, to work together for
good. He remembered that God made “evils to become angels.” Secondly, Christ was careful to cultivate religious habits. He never
“broke” His training for Christianity. Among the religious habits of Christ were prayer, regular Bible reading and study, and faithful
church attendance. In conclusion, Mr. Currie said: “The men who crack are those who haven't kept their souls in shape.”

By using the form of the dramatic monologue and by filling in missing parts of the story with his imagination,
Mr. Currie tried Thursday morning to throw light upon the story of the spiritual development of Nicodemus. This man, at
first an uninterested Pharisee, first came to Jesus by night to learn of His teachings. After a time he was
converted in his mind and heart, but his faith was not strong enough to lead him to risk his standing
among the Jews by an— (Continued on Page 6)

FIFTEEN STUDENTS GET BIDS FROM I.R.C.

Sir Herbert Ames Will Address Club and Be Honored With Banquet

Fifteen men were extended bids by members of International Relations Club at a recent meeting of the society. Officers of
the club also announced that Sir Herbert Ames will speak to the group on April 27. Those men invited to
join the I.R.C. were: Seniors, Carl Carlson, Worth Sprunt, and Gene Vogler; Juniors, Wade Barrow, Jim Dorsett, Haywood Hill, Bill
Kiesewetter, Chubby King, Teeny Lafferty, Hector McGeachy and Dick Vowles; Sophomores, Cage Brewer, Joe Calvin, Sherrod Hice and Fred Stair.

Sir Herbert Ames, Kt., LL.D., who will speak to the I.R.C. on April 27, served as a member of the
Canadian House of Commons from 1904 to 1921, and as Financial Director of the League of Nations Secretariat. From 1929
to 1935 he has been lecturer for the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace. While at Davidson Sir Herbert will deliver
two addresses to members of the I.R.C. After his second talk the society will give a banquet in his honor.

Five members of the local chapter, J. D. Allen, Russell Patterson, Hal Overton, Gene Vogler and Bob Stuart, attended an
International Relations Club banquet at Queens-Chicora College in Charlotte last night.

McClellan, Stair Elected Student Vice-Presidents

HAYWOOD HILL

Haywood Hill was elected president of the Davidson College Y. M. C. A. in a run-off election held yesterday. He
succeeds Walter Dickson.

NUOGIAN TELLS OF REVOLUTION

Countess Tolstoy, Daughter of Author, Talks on Soviet Regime

Countess Alexandra Tolstoy, daughter of the famous Russian novelist, Count Leo Tolstoy, addressed one of the largest audiences ever to
attend a lecture in Chambers auditorium last Monday evening. Countess Tolstoy chose as her subject “Tolstoy and the Russian Revolution.”

The Countess began her lecture by answering a question which is in many Russian hearts: “What would Count Leo Tolstoy
say about the present Russian Government?” Countess Tolstoy stated that she firmly believed her father would oppose the Soviet government.
She gave as her chief proof her father’s article on capital punishment “I Cannot Decide.” In this article Count Tolstoy
gave his views on several of the present problems.

Countess Tolstoy devoted the main part of her speech in describing Russia as it was when she left in 1921.
She told many interesting stories concerning the type of education which existed at that time. Before Countess Tolstoy came to
America she ran a private school in Russia. The government forced her to graduate peasant students regardless of their ability
and learning because they wanted their leaders to be from the working class. She stated that 25 percent of the
students’ time had to be given to military training. She also stated that a person who did not belong to
the “great union” could not get a job and that if one was dismissed from the union starvation was their
only alternative.

At the close of her lecture Countess Tolstoy gave the audience her idea of Stalin. She feels that Stalin’s promises
of better home life, strict divorces, secret ballots, etc., are promises and nothing more.

Dr. Gwynn Serves On Religious Committee

Dr. Price H. Gwynn, professor of education, was in New York City Friday and Saturday of last week, serving as
a member of the Fellowship Committee of the National Council on Religion in Higher Education. This committee awards fellowships for
American and foreign graduate study in fields of liberal art to men who will later serve in undergraduate institutions. A
first requirement for every applicant is that he be deeply interested in religion, so that, no matter what subject he
may teach, his influence may be in the cause of religion.

One of the five men chosen for a fellowship was William Armistead Christian, of the class of 1926 (Continued on
Page 6)

Jack Holland Is Named Secretary-Treasurer For 1937-38 Session

NINE MEN IN EACH RACE

Run-Offs Necessary to Decide Winners

Bob McClelland was elected First Vice-President of the Student Body in the run-off which was held last Wednesday morning. Fred
Stair will be the Second Vice-President, and Jack Holland was elected Secretary-Treasurer of the Student Body.

McClelland, who is president of the Sophomore class and a member of the Pi Kappa Alpha social fraternity, was top
man in the race with 286 votes. Stair received 264 votes, and Perry Sloan, the other survivor, was given 224.
The race for vice president was narrowed down from nine candidates. These original men were: Bob McClelland, Fred Stair, Perry
Sloan, Warren Gaw, Ned Iverson, Frank Harrison, Sam Hemphill, Tom Abbott, and Sam Newell.

In the secretary-treasurer election Holland polled 217 votes to 173 for Gales McClintock. There were nine voted on for this
position too. They were: Jack Holland, Gales McClintock, Bud Gilmore, Rufus Allison, Tony Casali, Bob Mann, George Richmond, Roger Rice,
and Charlie Pegram.

ALUMNI WILL OBSERVE LOYALTY DAY APRIL 22

Davidson Men All Over World Will Celebrate Centennial

The college administration has named April 22 as Founders Day and Loyalty Day, according to Mr. Fred Smith, Alumni Secretary.
The Alumni Office is planning to have one of the largest meetings of Davidson men ever to be held in
the history of the college. Alumni chapters all over the nation are being asked to hold meetings at this time.
They have even asked the Davidson men in Shanghai to gather and celebrate this day in honor of the Centennial
Year.

The largest meeting is to be held in Charlotte at the Chamber of Commerce building. Over two hundred alumni are
expected to attend and this number does not include wives of the alumni who are also being invited. A number
of new chapters will hold their first official meeting at this time, and hundreds of Davidson men are expected to
renew their active work for their Alma Mater.

At these meetings, the alumni will be given pledge cards on which they will be asked to fill in the
amount they can contribute toward the Centennial Building Fund. The money will not all be collected at this time, of
course, but it will give the Alumni Office some estimate of what they can count on raising for this purpose.
These meetings are being held as preliminaries to the big Centennial gatherings which will be held here at Davidson at
commencement time. It is for this time, that the pageant is being planned.

Alumni Journal Will Be Issued In April

The next Alumni Journal will appear about April 10, according to Mr. Fred Smith, Alumni Secretary. The new journal will
contain a good view into the centennial plans and will also announce final plans for Founders Day. Dr. W. L.
Lingle, President, will write the main article of the issue. It will be an appeal to all Davidson men to
contribute to the centennial building program. Another feature will be “Davidson Men in Big Business.” The cover will be a
picture of President Lingle and Mr. F. L. Jackson looking over a plan for a new building. This photo was
taken by Mr. Smith himself.

HAYWOOD HILL CHOSEN NEW “Y” PRESIDENT

Hill Elected Over Watson Street in Second Balloting

SUCCEEDS DICKSON

Rice, Walker and Gaw Still in Race

Haywood Hill, Charlottesville, Va., was named president of the Davidson College Y. M. C. A. in a run-off election held
yesterday morning. Watson Street, of Talladega, Ala., was runner-up. As this goes to press the two vice-presidents have not yet
been elected.

Balloting for vice president was completed this morning, vote being called between Sherrod Rice, “Boo” Walker, and Warren Gaw. Rice
and Walker polled 174 votes each in the voting yesterday, Gaw 145.

The president was selected from a field of six candidates nominated Friday morning: Charles Bixler, Marion Bryant, Haywood Hill, Bill
Kiesewetter, Watson Street and Monroe Wicker. After first balloting Hill and Street remained, the latter leading his nearest opponent by
a margin of 14 votes.

Those nominated for vice presidents were: Al Bixler, Warren Gaw, John Reisner, Sherrod Rice, “Boo” Walker, Locke White, Rodman Williams,
John Wilson. All but Gaw, Rice and Walker were eliminated in the first round.

All of the candidates have been outstanding on the campus and are actively connected with the work of the Y.
M. C. A. Hill is a member of Kappa Sigma social fraternity, Alpha Phi Epsilon, debating fraternity, served as secretary-treasurer
of his class and is a member of the football “B” squad.

Editor of The Davidsonian will be chosen in elections immediately following the spring holidays.

Pageant Work Will ContinueNears Completion of Pageant and Masque

“The Davidson College Pageant and Masque,” part of Davidson's centennial celebration, is very near completion. This was announced by Mr.
Theodore Viehman, writer and director of the pageant, who arrived in Davidson on Monday for a two-week stay during which
final details for the production are to be approved by the college faculty. Mr. Viehman stated that the first draft
of the pageant has been finished, with the exception of two short episodes near the end. For the past three
months, he has been engaged in studying Davidson's history and translating it into this pageant form.

The spectacle is to be presented in two parts. The first, the pageant proper, will feature reenactments of dramatic incidents
in Davidson's history. This part will be realistic, presenting only actual events. The second section, however, will be symbolic in
the form of a masque. Its purpose is to show the various forces that have vitally affected Davidson's growth. The
effects of the wars Davidson has outlived and the burning of Old Chambers are among these forces that will be
shown and interpreted. Scenes looking to Davidson's future will also be featured in this part. It is expected that the
entire production will last more than two hours. It is to be given at night sometime toward the end of
commencement week, although the actual scene of presentation on the Davidson campus has not yet been selected. The cast is
to be taken largely from the Davidson student body and will probably contain around 500 individuals.

(Continued on Page 6)

Senior Class President Elected Monday By Y. M. C. A. Board of Control

McCLURE TAKES CHURCH To Leave For Lincolnton Pastorate in June

Wade Boggs, of Shreveport, La., has been elected by the Y. M. C. A. Board of Control to succeed the
Rev. Albert B. McClure as secretary of the Davidson College “Y.” Mr. McClure has accepted a call to the pastorate
of the First Presbyterian Church of Lincolnton, and he will leave Davidson at the end of the college year. Boggs,
a member of the Centennial class, was selected on last Monday, March 15, at a meeting of the board, which
is composed of Dr. Arbuckle (chairman), Prof. Williams, Mr. Jackson, Dr. W. L. Lingle, Dr. Moffett, Mr. McClure, Walt Dickson,
Kenneth Scott, Frank Brown, and Monroe Wicker.

Boggs has been very active in the work of the Y. M. C. A. during his four years at Davidson
and has served as vice president of the “Y,” chairman of the work committee, a member of the Cabinet, and
a member of the Board of Control. He is also president of the Senior class, a member of the Student
Council, of the varsity tennis team, and of the Kappa Sigma social fraternity. This year he has been honored by
election to Phi Beta Kappa, national honorary fraternity, and Omicron Delta Kappa, national leadership fraternity.

When he was questioned as to his plans for the future, he said: “I’m delighted to know that I will
be back with the members of the Davidson student body next year, and I took the position as an opportunity
for service open only to a few. It is my earnest hope that the work of the Master will go
forward here in a way it has never been done before.”

CENTENNIALS CHOOSE CLASS SUPERLATIVES

Wilbur Edwards and Jack Branch Rake in Largest Number of Votes

Being good in America is not enough—the public acclaims and cries for the best. Davidson is no different—so here we
present the superlatives of the Centennial Class, as determined by a poll of that class itself.

Most Likely to Succeed

J. E. (Jack) Branch led the field with three times as many votes as his nearest rival. Wilbur Edwards, Wade
Boggs, Russell Patterson, and Tyler Port followed Branch in that order. There were 26 men nominated for this position but
13 received only one vote each.

Handsomest

Wilbur Edwards proved to be the best-looking Senior in school this year. Russell Patterson and Jack Branch were not far
behind, but 26 other men also received votes from some members of their class.

Most Popular

“Tiger” Jim Morton, Joe Hunter, and Tom Corbin were voted the most popular by their classmates.

Biggest Politician

Harold Sugg won this post with a substantial plurality. Jack Branch and Jim Morton were his opponents and followed in
the order named.

Most Studious

This was a close one but Roy Bigham won by seven votes over Frank Brown. Wade Boggs, Branch, and Charlie
Ross were next in line but were left far behind.

Wittiest

Again Harold Sugg won a clean victory but this time it was over Jim Johnston. These two, with Tyler Port
next, had this field without any worthy opposition.

Most Talented

Kenneth Scott won a sweeping victory.

(Continued on Page 6)

Wade Boggs to Succeed McClure as “Y” Secretary

HIGH POSITION

Wade Boggs, graduating senior who will succeed “Mac” McClure next year as Y. M. C. A. secretary at Davidson. “Mac”
goes to Lincolnton to accept a call as pastor. Boggs belongs to both Phi Beta Kappa and Omicron Delta Kappa.

JUNIORS HOST IN DANCE SET

Earl Mellen Furnishes Music For Three Dances at The Hotel Charlotte

The Junior class was host to the campus over the weekend in presenting the annual Junior Speaking set of dances.
Earl Mellen furnished the music for the dances. The dances were well attended, and the music by Mellen has received
favorable comment from many sources. The ballroom of the Hotel Charlotte was filled at all three of the dances by
the Davidson students who were having their last celebration before the holidays.

The masked ball Friday night was not masked very long as the spring weather was too hot for the dancers.
The fact that the masks were not worn did not affect the dance, however. The tea dance held on Saturday
afternoon was probably the best tea dance ever held at Davidson. Shortly before intermission at the Friday night formal dance,
a figure was given by the members of the committee and an alternate member from each fraternity with their dates.
The figure was led by Miss Happy James and Jim Dorsett, president of the Junior class. All those who were
in this figure wore masks but took them off as they received their favors from Miss James.

French Group Give Program

Twenty-five members of Le Cercle Francais and the French Club journeyed to Spartanburg, S.C., last Tuesday, March 16, where they
presented a program before a Converse College group. Davidson's French clubs gave the same program: “Le Medicin Malgre Lui, Entr’acte
— En L’honneur du Centenaire de Davidson College,” and “L’Anglais tel qu’on Le Parle” in Chambers auditorium last night. This
program was also presented at Coker College on February 23.

The cast of the plays presented to the Converse club is as follows: Le Medicin Malgre Lui: O. V. Armstrong,
A. L. Cates, S. D. Crane, Miss Emily Goodrum, L. M. Kornegay, J. S. Raynal, J. H. Reisner, J. P.
Rostan, J. S. Tillotson, and R. A. Torrey. Those taking part in the Entr’acte were as follows: H. W. Barrow,
S. D. Crane, J. R. McClelland, W. L. McIlwen, J. H. Smith, and J. C. Winn.

The eight members of the cast of (Continued on Page 6)

MARRIAGE CEREMONY UNITES MR. DAVIDSON TO MISS ALICE GAGE

Mrs. Gasque and Miss Ellison Are Attendants; Mr. Gaston is Best Man

GIVEN AWAY BY FATHER

Rev. J. H. Marion Performs Service March 20

Mr. Chalmers Gaston Davidson, librarian of Davidson College’s library, wedded the former Miss Alice Graham Gage at 8 o’clock on
the evening of Saturday, March 20, in Chester, S.C. The marriage ceremony was performed in the Bethel Methodist Episcopal Church
in Chester with the Rev. J. H. Marion, pastor of the Oakland Avenue Presbyterian Church of Rock Hill, S.C., and
a cousin of the groom, conducting the services. The Rev. M. T. Wharton, pastor of the Bethel M. E. Church
of Chester, assisted.

The bride appeared with her father, Robert Gage. She was wearing a dress of heavy ivory satin with a starched
coronation collar of rose point lace. A full veil fell from her shoulder and her bouquet was composed of gardenias,
lilies of the valley, and orchids. The dame of honor was Mrs. Pratt Gasque of Marion, S.C., and Miss Corinne
Ellison of Lancaster, S.C., was the maid of honor. The best man was Mr. David Aiken Gaston of Chester, S.C.
The vows were taken with the same ring used by the bridegroom’s grandparents, Col. William Lee Davidson and Annie Frome
Davidson, at their wedding in 1870.

The parents of the bride entertained at a reception at home following the ceremony, which was given for the bridal
party and the out-of-town guests.

Mrs. Davidson is the only child of Mr. and Mrs. Robert Gage of Chester, S.C. She attended Chatham Hall, Va.,
Converse College, and King Smith Studio School in Washington, D.C. She made her debut in Columbia, S.C., at the Assembly
Ball in 1935. Mr. Davidson is the second son of Mr. and Mrs. Z. Vance Davidson. He is a graduate
of Davidson College and holds master's degrees from Harvard and the University of Chicago. He is a member of Beta
Theta Pi and Phi Beta Kappa.

FORENSIC TEAM IS DEBATING IN NORTH

Port, Sugg, Kiesewetter Touring Northern Schools During Holidays

Harold Sugg and Tyler Port, those politicking roommates, left this week on their northern debating trip. They will be accompanied
by Bill Kiesewetter, who is an alternate. The first debate on their schedule is with Washington and Lee, in which
they will take the affirmative of the question: “Resolved: That Congress should have the right to fix minimum wages and
maximum hours for industry.” When W. and L. was debated here, Sugg and Port upheld the negative.

Their next debate is with Swarthmore College, in which they will also take the affirmative of the question: “Resolved: That
college athletics should be openly subsidized.” In their last three debates, which are with Lafayette University, U. of Richmond, and
U. of Virginia, Sugg and Port will uphold the negative of the “Wages and Hours” question. The team will participate
in five debates in all. This is the final trip of the season. Charlie Mauze and Haywood Hill returned Monday
from their western trip, in which they visited and debated at several colleges in Tennessee and Kentucky.
