French Professors Che Davidsonian Wa to ade so Speak Journalists Will Convene Here

ALENOA LUX UB! ORTA LIBERTAS

VOL. XXV DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., WEDNESDAY, NOV. 17, 1938 NO. 14

Girls-Make Gala Plans; Queens Bid Is Received

One Hundred Thirty Men Sign Up For Pilgrimage To Charlotte

Due to the success of the Davidson-Queens Day last spring, Queens-Chicora College has designated Nov. 18th to the Queens-Davidson Day this fall. A blanket invitation was issued to the student body of Davidson from the Queens’ student body through Miss Mary Currie, president of their group. So far almost one hundred and thirty men have signed up to make the trip to the Charlotte college, and buses will probably be provided for transportation of the Davidson students.

Committees Given

Very elaborate preparations have been prepared for our entertainment under the direction of the following committees, of which Miss Currie is in charge. Miss Virginia Miller Agnew, dean of women, is advisor.

Entertainment: Misses Nancy Mclver, Jane Wiley, Eleanor Alexander, and Caddie Willis.

Refreshments: Misses Freddie Ward, Martha Johnston, Sally McDowell, Louise Crane, and Helen Jordan.

Reception: Misses Helen Cumnock, Alice Wright Murphy, Frances Stough, Anne Pease, and Virginia Smith.

Decorations: Misses Smith, Elizabeth Calder, Helen Hatcher, Mildred Lowrance, and Josephine McDonald.

Last spring the entire student body of Queens-Chicora journeyed up to Davidson and were provided with a full afternoon of entertainment. Chubby King played for the reception; the varsity baseball team entertained with a baseball game, and that evening the Red and Black Masquers put on a play. Supper was served to them in the banquet hall of Chambers building.

Lillian Johnston and Ovens Speak

Express Gratitude For Aid Given By Church

Joseph B. Johnston, superintendent of the Barium Springs Orphans’ Home spoke on the annual Thanksgiving offering for the home last Sunday afternoon at the Second Presbyterian Church of Charlotte. Following Mr. Johnston’s address was another by David Ovens, member of the Mecklenburg Presbytery’s committee in charge of the special offering.

Mr. Johnston expressed his gratitude to the synod for having last year raised the institution out of debt with their contributions. This, however, has made it more difficult to meet the current needs of the Home. The Thanksgiving offering, which totals about half the yearly budget, ought not to fall below the $51,000 received last year, he declared.

Mr. Ovens stated that, with other agencies taking over the greater part of relief work, the church needs just such an outlet as this to express the Spirit of Christ. He pointed out that the orphanage is doing more than care for the bodily needs of the 300 children it includes, but is giving them new hope, new courage, and a sense of security.

Jackson Returns

Mr. F. L. Jackson has returned to his duties as treasurer of the college, after installing a chapter of Omicron Delta Kappa at Washington College. He is the national President of this honorary fraternity.

This was the first installation under Mr. Jackson's administration. William Moseley Brown, national secretary of ODK, assisted Mr. Jackson. The new chapter at the Maryland college is the Alpha Psi circle.

Dean Views Dance Problem

To The Members of Our Student Body:

Everyone, I am sure, deplores the fact that recently two of our students have been required to withdraw from College for transporting intoxicating liquor and that another large group of students has been required to disband their organization and refrain from further attendance upon Davidson dances. This situation is all the more deplorable because these students are no more guilty than many others on the campus. They have simply fallen in with a vicious system that has been allowed to grow up, for which the students, the Faculty, and the Dean are responsible, for we could have prevented such development.

We cannot undo the harm of the past but we can, for the future, seek to remedy this system so that it will be impossible for our students to be caught in it again. For our part, we believe the Faculty and the officials of the College are determined to use every means at their command to prevent the repetition of such a humiliation to parents and students of the future. We also believe in this effort they will have the hearty and unanimous support of the Executive Committee of the College and the Board of Trustees.

(Continued on Page Two)

Council Votes ‘In ‘D’ Club At Recent Meet

Eta Sigma Phi Seeks Readmittance to Council

The “D” Club, prominent varsity sports organization, which was admitted to the honorary fraternity council by vote recently, will be formally taken into the council next week.

The “D” Clubbers considered this invitation during their last meeting, and they voted unanimously to accept the honor offered to the club.

The adoption of the club into the Honorary Fraternity Council will lend a great deal of prestige to an already powerful organization. The president of the “D” Club, Leonard Fort, automatically becomes the club’s representative on the Council, which is made up of the presidents of all the honorary clubs and fraternities on the campus.

Eta Sigma Phi will be voted on by the Council at their next meeting to determine whether or not this society will be asked to rejoin the Council. This society is a national classical fraternity for those who show distinguished scholarship and interest in the study of the Greek and Latin languages. This group, disbanded last year, but has recently reorganized with Bill Laws as their new president.

A few weeks ago the Honorary Council received petitions from the “Y” Cabinet and the Ministerial Band for membership to the Council. These petitions were refused, however, as the Council felt it would hurt the prestige of these two organizations on the campus, if they were considered as honorary fraternities.

Seven Men Accept Bids To Science Fraternity

Gamma Sigma Epsilon Extends Honorary Membership to Dr. Logan

Dr. T. S. Logan, new professor of chemistry, heads a list of seven new members this year for Gamma Sigma Epsilon, national honorary chemistry fraternity. Six student bids, extended to Joe Bailey, Henry Cutchin, James Hartzog, Doug Neal, Lister Skinner, and John Wilson, have all been accepted.

Dr. Logan is one of few men who have ever been given honorary membership into this organization. Davidson’s other two chemistry professors are members already, Prof. O. J. Thies having been a charter member and Prof. Avery Patton having been initiated during his student days here. Members are selected on the basis of outstanding achievement in the study of chemistry and general high scholastic standing.

Gamma Sigma Epsilon was founded at Davidson in 1919. Since that time its organization has grown to include twelve chapters, spread across the nation from New York to Wyoming and Florida. Chapters in this state include besides the Alpha Alpha chapter here, ones at North Carolina State and at Wake Forest. Dr. H. B. Arbuckle, retired professor of chemistry, has guided and aided the local chapter throughout its existence and was instrumental in having the national organization spread.

New members as well as old will be able to attend the national convention of Gamma Sigma Epsilon, to be held this year with the State chapter in Raleigh, Nov. 29-30. Marion Bryant, grand alchemist, will be the official delegate of the Davidson chapter, but several other members are expecting to attend.

Promotion of Peace Is Gwynn’s Talk Topic

Dr. Price Gwynn of the Psychology department, was the speaker of the morning at the regular chapel period on last Thursday, when Armistice Day was celebrated. Dr. Gwynn spoke on peace and what the United States is able to do to promote a universal realization of the fact that war must be abandoned. His suggestions as to the answer of this question fell into two divisions: measures to meet the present emergency and measures to develop a long time policy of international co-operation and to lessen the chances of war in the future.

In the first group of measures Dr. Gwynn emphatically stated that our government should carefully refrain from taking sides in the conflicts now raging in different parts of the world. It should be made clear that this country will not go to war to protect either its nationals or their commerce in the zones of hostility. Dr. Gwynn stated that he was giving his whole-hearted support to Secretary Hull's good neighbor program and other such measures to curb nationalistic arrogance. In the future we should attempt to maintain adequate national defense against invasion and for that purpose only, and we should work for legislation making it impossible to declare war without putting the issue to a vote of the people. Provisions should be made for taking profit out of war by conscripting capital, industry, and labor before the nation’s manhood is conscripted.

In concluding, Dr. Gwynn made a fine statement: “If we hope to deliver our children from the constant threat of wholesale slaughter we must manifest a persistent will to peace—a genuine loathing of war in any form. War destroys life. What is worse, it destroys the very things which make life worth living—truth, honor, beauty, human faith, friendship, and love.”

Body Votes For Control of Drinking

Dances to Be Abolished Unless Adequate Control System Is Found

The Davidson student body expressed its willingness to co-operate with the administration in the latter's effort to do away with drinking at college dances, when by a standing vote it approved a motion in words to that effect. The letter read in chapel Tuesday morning was drawn up by Dr. Sentelle, approved by the faculty executive committee, the president of the student body and the president of the Pan-Hellenic Council. The motion put before and passed by the student body was a direct outgrowth of the letter, which is on this same page. A student committee was named by President Lafferty, the members of which will work with the faculty to find an adequate solution to the present drinking problem. The committee, released late Tuesday afternoon, consists of Philip Arrowsmith, Jerry Harris, Leonard Fort, and Teeny Lafferty, seniors; Pittman, junior; and Buck Powell, sophomore.

The motion was not approved (Continued on Page 2)

ODK Initiation To Be Held On Friday

Delta chapter of Omicron Delta Kappa, national leadership fraternity, will hold its fall initiation on Friday night, Nov. 18 at 8 P.M.The initiation is to be held in the faculty room of Chambers building. Dr. Sparrow of Charlotte will be the principal speaker of the evening. After the formal initiation, there will be a social hour. These arrangements were decided on Tuesday night at a regular ODK meeting. There are six members of the student body taken in last spring, who are as follows: Wade Barrow, Jim Dorsett, Haywood Hill, Teeny Lafferty, Dick Vowles, and Bailey Williams. Members to be initiated are Charles Brown, Yates Faison, Leonard Fort, Elmore Holt, Bill Kiesewetter, Hector McGeachy, Lawrence Reid, Watson Street, and Monroe Wicker.

Debate Trials
First Varsity Meet Will Be Against Dartmouth College Squad

Tryouts for the debating team have been postponed until December 6, it has been announced by Bill Kiesewetter, president of the Forensic Council. The first home debate will be with Dartmouth College of Hanover, N. H. The question to be argued will be the national debating question of this year: “Resolved: That the National Labor Relations Disputes.”

Thirty men have signified that they would like to try out for the varsity team. Five-minute speeches taking either the negative or affirmative side of the question. Members of the faculty on the debating board will be the judges. Tryouts for freshman debating will be held next semester, and it is hoped that they, too, will have a regular debate schedule this session. The question for the freshman debate will be the same as the question for the varsity squad. It is not definitely known whether the debates will be judged or whether they will be “non-decision” debates. The latter plan was adopted last year as being a better and more modern method. However, many of the debaters and students think that the keen competition of decision would make the arguments more spirited, and because of this want the old type back.

Rally Will Be Addressed By Dr. W.L. Lingle
Glee Club Will Present a Special Program of Sacred Music

PREPARES HI-Y CENSUS
Carolina Theater Has First Meeting in Series

Dr. Walter L. Lingle, President of Davidson College, will speak at the Charlotte Y.M.C.A. Christian Youth Rally next Sunday afternoon at the Carolina Theater in Charlotte. Also on the program will be the Davidson College Glee Club. Dr. Lingle has announced as his subject for the address “The Matchless Leader of Youth—Jesus Christ.” He will speak for approximately twenty-five minutes, showing the example which Jesus Christ, as a leader, set for young men.

The Davidson College Glee Club, under the direction of Professor Thane McDonald, will present a short concert of sacred music. Also on the musical part of the program is the Charlotte High School Orchestra, directed by L. K. Sides. The Charlotte orchestra will offer several selections of special music. The meeting Sunday will be the first Youth Rally held in Charlotte; however, the Y.M.C.A. there is planning to arrange a permanent monthly program. This first gathering is preliminary to the annual Hi-Y Club religious survey or census in the Charlotte high schools and to the City-County promotion of “December Go To Church Month.”

Students Go To Guilford
Bob Ramsey Is Vice-President of Association

The Convention of the North Carolina Ministerial Association met Saturday at Guilford, being represented by six colleges. Among these were: Davidson, Louisburg, Campbell, High Point, and Guilford. Davidson was represented by Andy Wilkerson, Bob Ramsey, and Smith. The purpose of the convention was “To foster More Fellowship Among the Student Ministers in North Carolina,” while the topic discussed was "The Minister, and some of the problems he has to face.” One of the most interesting discussions was led by Dr. A. D. Beitel of Guilford on the subject “Why I Plan to Be a Minister.” The delegates were entertained in the afternoon by a football game between Guilford and Appalachian colleges, and later an informal tea given by the president of Guilford College.

(Continued on Page 4)

The Davidson Wildcats returned to the campus Monday afternoon with sore necks and wide eyes after viewing with wonder the skyscrapers and other sights of the world's largest city during the weekend. There was very little sightseeing done on the way up to Cambridge and the boys did their first gazing when they saw a little of Boston on Saturday morning. After the game Saturday afternoon, they returned to Boston and entertained themselves in that city for the evening. Leaving Boston, the team arrived in New York on Sunday morning and procured a large touring bus, equipped with a barker and all other accessories, and spent the morning touring New York. Starting at their point of arrival, the Pennsylvania station, the barker conducted them to the Battery, the City Hall, and other well-known points of interest. The boys were then given a look at the Statue of Liberty—for the majority of them the first. The Aquarium was the next point on the tour and Coach Laird, being a Waltonian himself, was especially captivated by the assortment of fish there. Everything in the fish line from minnows to sharks was found there.

Continuing on their tour, the Wildcats saw the birthplace of Al Smith, the Yankee Stadium, and the Polo Grounds. Everyone climbed off the bus on arriving at the Empire State building and craned their necks upward for some time at this huge building. The bus then carried them up the Hudson River and they saw the Washington Bridge and went into Grant's tomb. After lunch, the boys spent the afternoon individually going to any points of interest that they especially wanted to see. Davidson alumni were on hand at every stop of the train on the way up to New York and on the trip back to greet the players.

Bailey’s, Goldiere’s Groups Are Entertained

The annual series of freshman receptions sponsored by the Y.M.C.A. was continued last Friday evening with a gathering of the freshman groups to which Professor Bailey and Dr. Goldiere are advisors. For the past several Friday evenings, the various first-year groups and their respective advisors have been meeting at the Social Center to become better acquainted with members of their class and members of the faculty. This is the second year that this plan has been used, after being substituted last year by the Y Board of Control for the former plan of having a single large freshman reception. At the gathering Friday evening, the group devoted most of the time to conversation and also to short talks by faculty members present. During the latter part of the hour, they were served other refreshments.

Editorial Features
Editorial Comment on Faculty Ultimatum, Queens-Davidson Night, Editorial “We.” With the Staff on this and that, by Terrell Porter. Around Washington, a syndicated column. King For A Day. That dare-devil King risks his life in publishing an uncensored photo of “Y” Leader Haywood Hill. Take It Easy, by Rut Miller. Columnist Miller comments on “what” to do in Davidson on weekends.

French Association Will Hold Meeting Here This Weekend
Madame McKee Is To Be Presented as Main Speaker of Program

The first regular meeting of the North Carolina chapter of the American Association of French Teachers will be held at Davidson Friday and Saturday of this week. The official lecturer of the Alliance Francaise, Madame Mathilde Mainguy McKee, soprano, will be here at that time. With the cooperation of the Faculty Committee on Lectures, Madame McKee will be presented in a lecture-recital in Chambers auditorium at eight o'clock the evening of the 19th, and a cordial invitation to attend has been extended to all interested in French and music.

Lingle To Speak

The program of the meeting has been recently announced. Following the housing of the members by Dr. A. V. Goldiere on Friday afternoon, the college will be host to the visitors at a dinner, at which a welcoming address will be given. Immediately following Madame McKee's lecture that evening, Le Cercle Francais will tender a reception to the musician and to the visiting members. On Saturday morning, the French instructors will gather to hear lectures by several of their own number. The following are to speak: Professor Rene Hadre of the Woman’s College of the University of North Carolina; Dr. Russell Pope, head of the Department of Modern Languages of Guilford College; Miss Ruth Shaver, teacher of methods at the high school of the Woman's College, Greensboro; and Dr. G. B. Watts of the Davidson faculty.

To Speak French

Madame McKee's subject, it is announced, will be “Popular Peasant Songs” and she will appear in costume. Her lecture will be in French, but as most of the program is devoted to songs, it is expected that the evening will be enjoyable to all who do not know French as well as those who do.

“Y” Receptions Are Continued

Two meetings of the class have already been held. At the first meeting, Mr. Smith outlined some of the things that he wished to bring out in his course during the year. At the second meeting, students heard an illustrated lecture by Jake Houston, staff photographer for the Charlotte Observer, on “The Value of Photography in Modern Newspaper Work.”