WEDNESDAY, MARCH 3, 1937 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Five

Local Eta Nu Pi Chapter Attends Salem Conclave
Mother Chapter of Platonic Organization Located at Davidson
PLAN FUTURE MEETING
Dr. Frank Poe Kapperonis Speaks At Banquet

Eta Nu Pi, semi-classical fraternity, which was recently organized on the Davidson campus, has branched out to other colleges in
North Carolina and nearby states and is rapidly making itself known in college circles. Eta Nu Pi is not strictly
a male organization and has chapters located in several colleges for women.

Ed Finley, Fred McLean, Tom Thurston, Bancroft Moseley, members of the local, Alpha-Alpha, chapter were guests of the Nu Alpha
chapter at Salem College last week. Dr. Frank Poe Kapperonis, prominent psychologist of Cornell University, was the principal speaker at
the banquet given Saturday evening as a part of the weekend’s festivities. Misses Edith McLean, Emily Richardson, Annette McNeely, Evelyn
McCarty, and Helen Totten are officers in the Salem chapter. The banquet hall was appropriately decorated with the colors of
Eta Nu Pi. After the banquet, Miss Richardson presented the visiting chapter with a book containing the songs of Eta
Nu Pi. A formal meeting was held at which plans were made for another joint session of the two chapters.

(Continued on Page 6)

Kill Two Birds With One Stone
An Old Saying Made Real in the New:
1. New In Style
Not just what is being worn—anybody can do that. These suits actually set the style!
2. New In Quality
‘Custom Tailored’ with the best wear-resisting fabrics. Made to fit you—from your own
3. New In Value
Style that sets the pace! Quality that is a revelation! All yours in a Jay Suit for as low as
$24.50
This Distinctive Tailoring Line Welcomes Your Inspection.
JAY TAILORING CO.
ED. J. MACK 312 West

LINGLE SPEAKS AT CHARLOTTE
Dr. Lingle Fills Pulpit at Myers Park Church Last Sunday

Dr. Walter L. Lingle, president of Davidson College, filled the pulpit of the Myers Park Presbyterian Church in Charlotte last
Sunday. Dr. Edgar G. Gammon, pastor of the church, was out of town on a short vacation.

Dr. Lingle’s sermon was on Zacchaeus, the publican, who climbed the sycamore tree in order to see Jesus. Zacchaeus was
a small man and it was necessary for him to get in the tree and above the surrounding crowd in
order to get a clear view of the Savior. “The crowd that we run with,” said Dr. Lingle, “obscures our
view of Jesus. If for our friends we select people who are antagonistic to Him, or indifferent to Him and
His House, we shall lose sight of Him. Our sins hide Jesus from us, too, and our prejudices.”

It was further brought out by Dr. Lingle that Christ Jesus, our Lord, always reveals Himself to those who seek
Him in earnest. The world is now hungering for a view of Him, and when we find Him, our outlook
is entirely changed to those things of the higher and more noble things of life.

GAMMA SIGMA EPSILON HOLDS OPEN MEETING
Chemical Phenomena Performed By Members Amaze Large Audience

Gamma Sigma Epsilon, national honorary chemical fraternity, held a very spectacular and entertaining meeting Monday to which all the members
of the student body and faculty interested in chemistry were invited. A speech of welcome was made by Harris Bradley,
Grand Alchemist, who presided over the informal meeting. Robert Lafferty aided him, acting as chairman of the program committee.

Bill Link offered as the first experiment the peculiar behavior of chemical “snakes.” Marian Bryant, using material prepared by Davidson
students some 33 years ago, experimented with the rapid oxidation of a peculiar iron compound. Jim Dickson illustrated the explosive
property of the metal sodium on a block of ice forming a miniature cannon. Dr. Arbuckle is the discoverer of
this particular experiment. J. W. Harper read a paper on the development of a new power-alcohol fuel to replace the
now existing gasoline used in internal combustion engines. Bob Lafferty demonstrated the violence with which hydrogen will explode in a
proper mixture with oxygen in air. Bill McLean synthesized com- (Continued on Page 6)

Vicks Cough Drop

Davidson Theatre
Thursday, March 4
MAMA STEPS OUT—
Friday-Saturday, March 5-6
LAST OF MRS. CHEYNEY—
Monday-Tuesday, March 8-9
SEA DEVILS—
Wednesday, March 10
HOLY TERROR—

The Best in Entertainment
With Guy Kibbee, Alice Brady and Betty Furness
Joan Crawford, William Powell and Robert Montgomery
The Latest Picture Out! Thrilling Scenes, Exciting Incidents
Jane Withers Back Again in one of Her Lovable Pictures

VARSITY DEBATING TEAMS
Members of the Davidson Varsity Debating Teams are shown in the picture above. They are (reading from left to right):
HAROLD SUGG, of Greenville; TYLER PORT, Winston-Salem; CHARLES MAUZE, Kansas City, Mo.; HAYWOOD HILL, Richmond, Va.; BOB STEWART, Montgomery, Ala.;
and JOHN D. ALLEN, Louisville, Ky. Allen and Stewart are now on the Florida trip. The other teams are Port
and Sugg, and Mauze and Hill.

Y.M.C.A. Sends Deputations to Gastonia and Charlotte
Among the GREEKS

Theta Pi
Eddie Steere and John Winn spent the weekend at his home in Greenville, S. C.

Pi Kappa Alpha
The chapter enjoyed a party Saturday night, at which the following girls were present: Eleanor Newman, Marie Cline, and Virginia
Shaffer of Salisbury; Martha Jean Brooks, Grace Downes, Jean Johnston, Betty Jeanne Marlin, Marjorie Blisse, Elizabeth Harms, Mary McBrayer, Betty
Pingston, Betty Purser, Helen Wiliford, Wade Wilkinson, and Tiny Waddell of Charlotte; Carol Cowles and Percie Lazenby of Statesville; Dot
Harrington of Memphis, Tenn.; Mary Caddie Willis of Concord. Mary McBrayer of Charlotte was elected sponsor of Beta chapter of
Pi Kappa Alpha.

Kappa Alpha
Brother John Graham has returned to school after an extended stay at his home in Goldsboro. Brothers “Coot” Gladden, Anderson,
Perrin and Pledge-brother Spenser went to Spartanburg, S. C. Bob Abell and Ross Gladden spent the weekend at their homes
in Chester, S. C. Dick Taylor visited in Fayetteville over the weekend.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon
Brother Al Schoth, traveling secretary of the national fraternity, visited the chapter Wednesday, Thursday and Friday. Brothers Clark, Johnson, Sloan,
and Williams visited Sweetbriar over the weekend.

Kappa Sigma
Delta chapter announces the following new members: Sam Webb, of Oxford; Jim Cooper and Edwin Watkins of Henderson; Karl Hudson
and Bill Ross of Raleigh; Ed Glenn, Gray Hunter and Will Black of Greensboro; Tom McAlpine of Hartsville, S. C.;
Stuart Oglesby, of Atlanta, Ga.; and Marvin Sours of Charlottesville, Va. Brothers Norfleet, Ross, Watkins and Wyatt went to dances
at State over the weekend.

Phi Delta Theta
Harper Beall went to Greensboro where he attended the dances at W. C. U. N. C.

Phi Gamma Delta
Jack Holland, George Jones, and Jack Tillotson went to Hollins over the weekend. Buddy Branton went up to Lexington, Va.,
to attend some of the dances at V. M. I.

CARS FOR RENT
M. P. Henderson
GULF GAS & OIL

Boggs, Brown, Scott, and Quartet Conduct Service In Gastonia

Two deputations from the Davidson Y. M. C. A. made trips Sunday for religious work. One group of seven went
to Gastonia to hold evening services at the First Presbyterian Church of Gastonia, while another group of two gave talks
at the Charlotte Y. M. C. A.

The deputation to Gastonia consisted of Wade Boggs, Frank Brown, Ken Scott and the Davidson quartette, composed of Bill Laws,
Paul Hudson, Harper Bell and Charles Ramseur. Boggs preached the evening sermon; his subject was “Striving for Perfection in Christ’s
Strength.” Brown, who is president of the NorthCarolina Young People’s Synod spoke first to the Young People’s Council of the
Gastonia church, and later to the Young People’s Society with “Seek Ye First the Kingdom of God.” The quartette sang
“Teach Us to Pray,” “Prayer Perfect,” and “Dear Land of Home.” Ken Scott was organist for the services.

In Charlotte, Leonard Fisher gave an informal talk on college life to a group of high school boys. Bill Perdew
talked before a group of younger boys on “Daniel.”

Pi Kappa Phi
Sam Hemphill went to Greensboro, Glover Trent to Roanoke, Va.; Harry Hendricks and Dave Colvin to Cliffside, and Salty Peters
to Lexington, Va., over the weekend. Jim Wilson and Tom Corbin journeyed to Atlanta and Washington respectively where they took
physical examinations for West Point.

Sigma Phi Epsilon
Brother Jerry Harris went to Greensboro and Andy Turner to Red Springs for the weekend. The chapter is planning to
have a party next Saturday night.

Sigma Phi Nuthin
Brother Bill Quick was sorry he couldn’t make the Chapel Hill track tournament trip, although he didn’t want to be
in the meet. Heman “The Hermit” Clark plans to become a politician, with Yentz Johnston as his chief baby-kisser. Maurice
Peabody went to Charlotte over the weekend.

Set for Saturday Night?
MAYBE there’s some date set, though he must have been hiding in the bushes—who hasn’t found out about the Dinner
Dances in our Main Dining Room. There’s where you go for a bang-up dollar dinner and you can dance on
Saturday nights from 7 to 11. Other nights it’s 7 to 9. Jimmy Livingston’s band does the playing for you.
There’s never a cover charge, or other charge than for the dinner (65c). That goes for Luncheons, too. Now you
know. Hop to the phone and get your Davidsonian around—If there is, it’s him we’re talking to.

HOTEL CHARLOTTE.

Pharr Leads Rifle Team Into Important Matches

PHOTOG HOBBY FOR SCHERER
Junior, Using Home-Made Equipment, Develops Profitable Business

An equipment outlay of $10 and an ordinary Eastman folding camera, together with no small gift of invention, are the
elements from which Wallace Scherer, a Davidson Junior, has made photography a profitable spare-time hobby. In a four-foot square laboratory
set up in his own dormitory room, 9 North, he has ingeniously compacted all the equipment necessary for developing, printing,
and enlarging.

Scherer says he first became interested in photography while working in the framing department of one of the south’s largest
finishing plants in Bristol, Va. Now, with this equipment completed, he has launched a finishing service of his own, and
spends most of his afternoons finishing films for students.

For enlarging, an easel is set upon the cabinet top, and the enlarging camera, an overhead affair, is brought to
focus on the easel. The camera itself is a thoroughly hybrid combination. Six tin cans, a therapeutic lamp reflector, a
milk strainer, a second-hand camera lens, and a spectacle lens constitute its component parts. Extending from the side of this
central unit is a shelf containing inset receptacles for holding developing solutions. Other home-made instruments include a print washer, composed
of an aluminum kettle with hose attached, and a not-yet-perfected print straightener. Scherer’s present position is just a step on
the way up, for he plans to continue with photography, at least to the extent of making it his life
hobby.

Skiing is the most “body-bruising” sport at Harvard University. In the annual report of the hygiene department, it was found
that skiers suffered the most injuries. Football men had no serious injuries.

Kunz, McLean, Pharr, Theiling, and Warlick in Hearst Matches

FIFTEEN MEN SHOOTING
Major J. L. Ballard Is Coach Of Team

The Davidson College rifle team, captained by W. S. Pharr, has been progressing rapidly, and now has several outstanding shots.
The team is composed of four upper-classmen and eleven freshmen, who shoot in the meets, but only the ten highest
are counted. Most of the freshmen on the team have never done any shooting before, but due to the coaching
of Major Ballard, they have been showing considerable promise. Each member of the team has a separate rifle, which he
uses all the time. No one but the user of that rifle is allowed to shoot with it, because each
person has a different way of shooting.

Hearst Trophy
This week the team is firing a very important match, The William Randolph Hearst Trophy Match. Only five men are
participating in this match, the five who have been shooting the highest in the previous meets. These men are: 1.
W. S. Pharr; 2. R. H. Theiling; 3. A. C. Warlick; 4. W. E. Kunz; 5. Dave McLean. These men
will shoot one of the four positions each week. They have yet to fire kneeling, sitting, and standing.

Rifle Competition
The team shot in the Fourth Corps Area Rifle Competition. At the same time, several other teams were participating in
this match. These teams are: The University of Dayton, the University of Kentucky, Michigan State College, the Citadel, Montana State
College, and Mississippi State College.

Medals Will Be Given
Seven medals have been obtained for the team and will be given to the seven who have the highest scores.
These medals are on display at White Drug Co. The final scores are to be determined on a percentage basis.

(Continued on Page 6)

85 years of shirt and collar making. Arrow shirts come in the new Mitoga form-fitting model. The collar designs include
regular, button-down, two collars to match, tab, widespread, and Aroset, the starchless collar that doesn’t wilt. You can get them
in white, solid colors, and patterns original with Arrow. The prices—Only $2.00 and $2.50.

Ivey & Company
