WEDNESDAY, APRIL 21, 1937 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Five

German Frat Meets, Takes in Four Men
Ingram, Riggan, Sawyer, and Vowles Elected to Delta Phi Alpha

Delta Phi Alpha and the German Club held its last meeting on Monday evening, April 12, at the home of Dr. and Mrs. Vowles. Monroe Wicker read a paper on Hauptmann von Koepenick by Zuckmayer. The playlet that was scheduled for this meeting was postponed until the next meeting. One of the main features of this program was the election of four students to Delta Phi Alpha. The four who were elected are A. L. Ingram, G. Riggan, W. W. Sawyer, and Richard Vowles. The meeting was concluded with delicious refreshments served by Mrs. Vowles.

Up to the present, there have been only one or two applications for the Heidelberg Scholarships. Dr. Vowles stated that all that were interested should put in their application as soon as they find it possible. The application must be in writing. There is one scholarship for an entire year at Heidelberg.

Davy Surgeon Employed to Prune Trees
States That They Should Be Pruned and Cut Every Year

Perhaps some of the students have noticed the work of the tree surgeon on the campus during the last week. Perched high in some of our beautiful giants, the surgeon can be seen busily pruning, cutting, and caring for these historic trees. H. L. Vough has been foreman on the campus for two weeks. He stated that the college trees were in fairly good condition to be as old as they are. Only one or two trees are going to be cut out. All the trees are being fertilized. This is being done by punching small holes all around the trees and placing the fertilizer in these holes.

Foreman Vough is representing the Expert Tree Company. All the tree surgeons sent out by this company have taken a three-year course at the Davy Institute of Tree Surgery, the only school of its kind in the world. There are three classes in the institute, and the men are taught to cope with every kind of tree disease that has ever attacked any tree. They can move large trees from one location to another, and the tree will live and thrive. The men are able to climb skillfully and dexterously into the most precarious positions, never using spurs or anything that might injure the trees when climbing into these “impossible” positions. It is all done by the use of ropes.

According to Mr. Vough, the trees should be carefully pruned and cared for every other year in order to keep them in the best of condition. This pruning should always be done by an expert tree surgeon, or permanent damage may be the result. The same company doing this work took care of the trees on the grounds surrounding the Capitol building in Washington.

Kemp's Tempo Wired For Air
Don't write Telegraph. That's Kemp's motto. This ace band leader on Chesterfield’s Friday radio show sends dance rhythms over the air with what he calls “telegraph brass.” This type of orchestration gives the brass section a special rhythmic accent, declares the band leader. By long practice, the band is able to give the music plenty of variety through the use of many varied tune patterns. On a recent poll of the opinion of America’s leading dancing teachers, Kemp's superior tempo is justified. He was selected as the best dance leader for the second successive year. With Kemp on his Friday night programs also appears Kay Thompson, with her rhythm singers. Miss Thompson originates her own vocal arrangements and presents her songs with a mixed chorus. Kemp declares that he is constantly amazed at Miss Thompson's clever presentations.

TODAY’S POPULAR SPORT BOWLING!
On Saturday Nights—or any other night—take her out to bowl. She'll like that! Take her where she'll feel at home.
THE HEALTH CENTER
12114 South Tryon
THE CHARLOTTE BOWLING CENTER
112 W. First St.

SODAS PRESCRIPTIONS
Make Our Store Your Store
White Drug Store
—DAVIDSON’S OLDEST AND BEST—

Davidson Theatre
Friday, April 23
DON’T TELL THE WIFE—
Guy Kibbee and Una Merkel in an exciting gang-crook play
Saturday, April 24
JOHN MEADE’S WOMAN—
Francine Larrimore, Edward Arnold, George Bancroft, and Gail Patrick in a fast-moving picture
Mon.-Tues., April 26-27
ROMEO AND JULIET—
Norma Shearer and Leslie Howard in the immortal love story
Wednesday, April 28
STEP LIVELY JEEVES—
If you want plenty of laughs, see this two-star picture

IN FRENCH DRAMA
Miss Mary Dorcas Harding, left, and Miss Ellen Pratt, right, will take the leading roles in “Le Romanesque,” a French play to be presented by the French Club from Converse College in Chambers Auditorium here tonight. The production is under the auspices of the Red and Black Masquers and Le Cercle Francais.

Converse Stars Play
Emenean to Stage Debate Plans
A Joint Meeting With Queens Society

The Eumenean Society met for its regular gathering last Tuesday night in the Eu Hall. A talk by W. W. Rader and a short story by Fitz Dade comprised the program, together with a discussion of plans for the activities of the society in the future. Dade read his story, a fantasy in the manner of Anatole France, entitled “The Prince of the East.” Rader’s talk concerned Demosthenes, his life, and his achievements. Bob Stewart acted as reviewer in the absence of Fields Horing. Plans for a debate with the Phi Society were set in motion, and Fitz Dade was appointed debate manager. At present, the topic has not been selected. The group also named a committee, headed by Bancroft Mosely, to arrange a joint meeting of the Eu Society and the literary society of Queens College. All the organizations have attempted to hold a meeting together before, but according to previous attempts, success seems likely this time. The president, John Allen, who was absent, was replaced by Mo Vowles, who presided in his place.

Kittens Lose Track Meets
An outclassed Kitten squad was swamped 99 1-4 to 12 3-4 by the Wildcats of Charlotte High, Wednesday, April 14, on the Central High field. The Charlotte team, champions of western North Carolina, took 12 first places of the 13 events, and all three places in four of the events. The frosh took first place in the shot put, second place in three of the events, and third place in five of the events. Copeland and Gill set the pace for Central High with 13 points each. The freshman team, after an overwhelming defeat earlier in the week, made a strong comeback against V. P. I. freshmen last Saturday on Richardson Field, but were defeated by a strong yearling team from that school, by the score of 65 to 61.

Among the GREEKS
Beta Theta Pi
During the last week, the elected officers were installed: Bill Gamble, Bob Bradbury, Dave Sell, and John Winn attended the district reunion at the University of Virginia from last Friday until Sunday. Moir Hall made a week-end trip to Burlington and Cathey.

On Sunday, a feed was given by the Pi Kappa Alpha chapter. The honorary pallbearers were Brothers Bob Anderson, Martin Cline, Milton Liberty, Bill Crisp, and Dickson. The active pallbearers were the entire chapter.

Kappa Alpha
A feed was given on Sunday. During the week-end, Brothers Mauze, Moffett, Bill Preyer, Charlie Spencer, Palmer, and Bob Abel attended Converse. John Anderson went to Greensboro and made it to Chester on Sunday night.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon
Bill Mcllwinen to Travel Globe Next Summer
Will Visit South America, Africa, Europe, Asia, and Australia
PLANS TO WRITE BOOK
On Return Trip Will Land at Vancouver, Canada

Bill Mcllwinen, Davidson senior, has had perhaps the most remarkable stroke of luck that a Davidson man has experienced in many years. During the Christmas holidays this year, he met for the first time...I neighbor who lived on a plantation next to my home. Last Friday he received a message calling him home to make plans for the trip which the neighbor was planning for him and his son. On arriving at home, Bill found that the trip was really a world voyage, all expenses paid, including spending money, in return for which he was to serve as a companion to the traveling son. According to their tentative plans, the boys will visit every country in the world and make special studies of the different countries. They will leave by way of Mexico and will go through South America. From there, they will go to Cape of Good Hope, then to Europe, Asia, Australia, Tahiti, and Honolulu. They will come back to North America and probably land in Vancouver, Canada. 

Thomas went to Greensboro College for the Junior-Senior banquet. George Matthews and Lem Dornegay went to Hickory. Tom Dunn, Charlie Fuller, and Jimmy Currie spent the weekend in Raleigh. Henry Mills went to Greenville. Neill Whitlock and Martha Britt visited the chapter during the weekend. Bob Wyatt, Biscoc Howell, and Gene Shaw were in Raleigh. Karl Hudson and Stuart Oglesby went to Spartanburg. Linwood Brown was selected to lead the group. Charlie Yates visited his home in Greensboro. Tommy Thompson also went home, and George Norfleet went to Winston-Salem. 

Visitors during the weekend were three alumni brothers: Fields, Young, and Mr. C. I. Black. Thirty lovely young ladies of the Converse College French Club will journey to Davidson today to present Edmond Rostand’s immortal play, “Les Romanesques,” in the Chambers auditorium tonight at 8 o'clock. The lead parts will be played by Miss Mary Dorcas Harding and Miss Ellen Pratt; Miss Harding taking the part of the hero, Percinet, and Miss Pratt playing the part of the heroine, Sylvette. 

On March 16th, the Davidson Cercle Francais visited Converse to present three plays entitled “Le Medecin Malgre Lui,” “Le Design,” and “L’Anglais Tel Qu’on Le Parle.” The officers of the Cercle Francais have expressed appreciation to the college authorities and Professor Williams for their cooperation in making the presentation of plays possible.

At a recent meeting of the Black Key Club, several fraternity members were elected officers for the coming year. Arrowsmith was elected president, with Branton as vice-president. Plans for the coming year and for the approaching Bowery Ball were made at the meeting. It was decided that they would sponsor a breakfast at the Hotel Charlotte at the conclusion of the Saturday night dance. They also decided to elect their new vice-president at the next meeting and to make final plans for the approaching ball.

The Ministerial Band held its regular meeting last Sunday afternoon at 2:30, at which time Dr. Egbert W. Smith, who was the guest minister at the regular Sunday evening service, made a short talk to the ministerial students. Dr. Smith advised the ministerial students to memorize the Bible, to do personal work such as leading other people to Christ, and not to be backward or bashful about their work. He stated that he and another student memorized the Bible together, reading and learning about six verses each night. Gordon Riggin led the devotional.

NO SHIRTEE LIKE EXPERT WORKMANSHIP HIGHEST QUALITY BUFF SHOE SHOP

Our old friend, Sing Low, sings high praise for Hanes! He says no matter how much he washes your Hanes Shirt, it still has plenty of tail to tuck deep inside your shorts. It wouldn't have a Chinaman’s chance of sneaking out and wadding at the waist! Take hold of a Hanes Shirt and stretch it sideways. Look at the life and snap in that soft elastic-knit! Now, pull it over your head and see how clean-cut you look and feel. Nothing sags or bags. Even the armpits are neat! Every time you put on a Hanes Shirt, step into a pair of HANES Shorts. No matter how well you're upholstered, you can sit, stoop, or walk, and never be cramped in the crotch! Genuine Lastex in the belt. Colors fast. See your HANES Dealer today. P. H. Hanes Knitting Co., Winston-Salem, N. C.

SHIRTS 35¢ and 55¢ EACH SHORTS 35¢ and 55¢ EACH

SAMSONBAE Sanforized Union-Suits, $1 each; others, 79¢ up. J.O. Jones, Inc.

It’s time to put on your light clothes. The new fabrics and models are here. You'll be interested in the new styles. COME IN. J.O. Jones, Inc.