WEDNESDAY, SEPT. 29, 1937 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Five

Many Buildings Renovated On Campus During Summer’s Work
Literary Society Halls and Chambers Repaired, Laundry Rebuilt

OTHER REPAIRS SLATED
Electric Clock Bought for Football Field

The campus, you may have noticed, underwent quite a few repairs this past summer, and as a result, an almost new vista greeted the eyes of returning students. The most noticeable repairs were on the Eu and Phi Literary Society Halls, which sorely needed all the work done. The halls have been completely renovated on the outside and will be renewed on the inside soon. Mr. Jackson said that the brickwork had been scraped and the mortar renewed, and after the old ivy vines had been pulled, the whole facade of both buildings was painted with waterproof paint to prevent moisture from soaking in and ruining the walls. The eaves on these halls were renewed, and the roofs patched, completing the outside work. On the interior, the plaster walls were patched, the border renewed, and plans were made to redecorate. Work inside the Phi Hall has been started, with the walls being repapered, the wood painted, and new draperies put in the windows. Specific plans have not been made for Eu Hall, but they will probably include the same changes as those in the Phi Hall.

The largest expenditure in the renovation program was spent on the laundry. The addition cost $6,000, and the new equipment cost more than $5,000. One new washing machine does 350 lbs. of clothes an hour. The old boiler was discarded, and the laundry has been connected to a boiler in the main heating plant.

The auditorium in Chambers was also repaired, the plaster cracks being fixed. Cracks in the stairway and elsewhere were filled. The floors in one-third of the classrooms were renewed, and the rest waxed. Also, a loud-speaker has been installed in the banquet room. Half of the cost of this was paid by the Presbyterian Young People’s Conference held here each summer. Purchase has been made of an electrically controlled motor to ring the bell in time with the clocks in Chambers, but it has not yet been installed. Also, an electrically operated time clock has been bought for use on the athletic field, delivered and installed in time for the Duke game. This new clock adds much improvement to the field.

NO THRILL EVER To Equal This! All Seats 25c. Anytime Charlotte, N. C.

THEN CAME THE DELUGE

No Definite Plans Made For Centennial Pageant
Finding Men to Take Place of Last Year’s Seniors Is Big Task

SPRING IS LOGICAL TIME
Full Cooperation of Faculty And Students Necessary

Dr. Lingle stated that the fate of the Davidson Centennial pageant is in the hands of the faculty and students. When interviewed about pageant plans, Dr. Lingle said that no definite plan had been made during the summer because he wished to get the reactions of the faculty and student body before going any further. He has laid the matter before the faculty for their reactions, but there has been a weak response from them. One faculty member has made a definite statement that he thought it inadvisable to continue, that the plans should be dropped. Dr. Lingle accords that it will be necessary to have the full cooperation of the faculty and student body to make the pageant a success. Since the amount of interest last year was tremendous, he thought it best to put the matter to the faculty first. Practically all interest will be concentrated on football this fall, and since the football season will be too cold to stage the pageant, the actual performance will be postponed until spring. Founder’s Day, which comes sometime in April, is the logical time for the pageant. Tentative plans are that all the scripts have been kept and stored, and the task of getting the pageant behind the scenes has been kept.

Pfohl’s Band Bigger, Better For This Year
Davidson Football Band Gets New Instruments and Uniforms

GO TO HARVARD GAME
The Concert Symphonic Band Is Unorganized as Yet

Davidson's football band, one of the largest college bands in North Carolina, according to Pfohl, who has 78 students in his organization. Last fall, the band consisted of only 65 students, but playing and fancy drills attracted a good many new members. The band has been built up with a large number of freshmen taking places. As there are not enough uniforms to go around, new uniforms have been ordered for the new members.Yet, not shy at all, the band has been ordered to perform at football games and also makes trips to some of the North Carolina towns. The band is attempting to make arrangements to carry the full Harvard game. The Davidson Concert Band, which contains most of the football band members, has not yet been regularly organized. However, it will begin regular practice in the near future.

Variety of Stock Carried By Store
Student Store Finances Managed Efficiently By Crooks And Reid

They sell everything from radios to groceries. The store, owned by the student body, is managed by Crooks and Reid. It serves as a gathering place for the students. The store is run by two managers and a clerk, with members representative of the Athletic Association and the student body council. Profits go to the representative groups.

Every Student Is Cordially Invited
CITY CAFE & DINING ROOM
“Where Friends Meet to Eat”
Spenser Bros.
Mooresville, N.C.

PATRONIZE DAVIDSON’S ONLY 5 & 10c STORE
DRY GOODS, GROCERIES, RADIO SUPPLIES, HARDWARE
C.H. DRUM
Southern Zenith & RCA Radios

DAVIDSON THEATRE
Wed. “My Dear Miss Aldrich”
Thurs.-Fri. “Prisoner of Zenda”
Sat. “Think Fast Mr. Moto”
Mon.-Tues. “Double or Nothing”
Wed. “Wild and Wooly”
Sept. 29-30, Oct. 1, Oct. 4-5

Among the Greeks
Beta Theta Pi

Many interesting communications are preserved in a scrapbook. A telegram was sent to Greensboro for the weekend and took a visit to the Gaston College. Many of the chapter members, including Ficklen, Marcel, Billy Bradburn, Jim Erwin, Ed Morton, John Ranson, Eddie Steere, Joe McLeskey, and Charles Malone, spent the night in the Queen City. There was the usual Sunday feed. Alumnus Dick Cathey attended with a date. Other guests at the feed were Katherine Hallet, Emily Dunlap, Myra Lou Lucius, and Charlotte McNair.

Kappa Sigma

Bob Norman, Enfield, Billy Archer, Charles Hill, and “Little Itch” Moore met with Erskine. They went home to Greenville for a dance.

Phi Gamma Delta

Pledges Joe Shelton, Vernon Young, and Stuart Gibbs went to a Concord dance during the weekend. Stuart Gibbs became one of the pledges.

Kappa Alpha

G. Watson Palmer went down to Greensboro to the Duke-VPI game. Frank and “Peach” Vayda started the trip by going to Queen City.

Phi Delta Theta

Alumni here for the game Saturday were John Newton, Howard D. Rockefeller, and Ned Spencer. They visited the fraternity house.

Pi Kappa Phi

Herb Willis, accompanied by Lena, made the trip for the game last Saturday.

Sigma Phi Epsilon

Joe Hunter and Vick were here for the game and get-together at the fraternity house. Guests included Jane Haskins, Sally McDowell, and Helen Clark. Brother McCann from the central office visited and entertained the brothers with a speech.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon

A feed was held Sunday night. Just a few drops of Vicks Va-tro-nol up each nostril reduces swollen membranes, clears stuffiness, and brings prompt relief. Used in time, it helps prevent many colds.

Johnson’s Pharmacy

Because It’s Got What It Takes
It’s the College Choice

Parker’s Speedline Vacumatic

Stop today at any good pen counter and see Parker’s latest and greatest achievement—the Parker Speedline Vacumatic. A wholly new model of the pen that does what no other pen can. Here’s a new all-time capacity, yet reduced to slender, restful Speedline. A pen that shows the entire ink supply—hence one never runs out in classes or exams. The world’s only Sacless Pen. Parker’s exclusive and Jet—wholly original. Parker GUARANTEED MECHANICALLY PERFECT.

VICKS VATRO-NOL
REGULAR Size 30¢ . . . DOUBLE QUANTITY 50¢

Parker Vacumatic Pens, $5, $7.50, $8.75, $10. Pencils to match, $2.50, $3.50, $3.75, $5.