Down Demon Deacons

The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Demon Deacons! Down

VOL. XXV DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., WEDNESDAY, NOV. 24, 1937 NO. 15

Students Approve Plan For Control of Drink Problem

Committee of Twenty-One To Have Control During Dance Week-Ends

OPEN DISCUSSION HELD

Plan Submitted By Faculty-Student Committee

The plan for complete control of drinking at Davidson, which was submitted to the student body by the combined committee of faculty and student members, was approved in chapel, first Monday morning and again in a re-vote Tuesday morning, by the majority of 285 to 88. The freshman class did not vote in the final ballot. This plan, in short, is that there shall be a board of supervision for control of dances, which shall see to it that there is no drinking at Davidson dances. This board of supervision shall consist of twenty-one members: the nine members of the Pan-Hellenic Council, the president of the nine social fraternities, and three non-fraternity men, one from each of the upper classes.

Students Express Opinions

After reading the plan to the student body Monday morning, President Lafferty called for an open discussion. Archer Torrey was the first man recognized, and he favored the honor system rather than the proposed plan. However, if the students were not in sympathy with it, he stated, the application of the honor system was futile. Jim Wilson then spoke against the honor system as being less practicable than the proposed plan. President Lafferty replied to Sam Spencer's inquiry that the penalty for one charged with drinking was (Continued on Page 2)

Senior Class Picks Blazer

Spanish Wine Selected as Color; Committee to Choose Jacket Style

Meeting last Friday after chapel, the senior class selected “Spanish wine” as the color for their official blazers which will be ordered soon. At a meeting held several weeks ago, the class voted to have the blazers made of ‘Felt-Roy,’ a popular new material similar to the ever-popular corduroy, so the adopting of a color Friday settled the question. The committee, composed of W. W. Rader as chairman, Lawrence Morrison, Lloyd Feuchtenberger, Reid King, and Reid, will select the style to be ordered, but it is generally understood that the class favors a sport-style coat with possibly a belted back. The committee has been promised several samples of various styles within the next few days which will enable them to decide definitely on the style and the company to which they will grant the contract, and they believe that they will have the blazers here by the Christmas holidays. Some forty members of the class have signified their intention of buying the jackets, and the Student Store has agreed to handle the distribution of them.

Best Dressed Man

Paul McGarity was chosen as the best-dressed man in Charlotte, according to results of a recent poll. An abundance of Davidson votes carried “Beau Brummel” McGarity to his victory. Some of Davidson's fashion plates of the past and present were included in this contest to select the best-dressed man in Charlotte, the poll being conducted by one of the Observer’s “Asides” columnists. The inimitable Carlo, brain child of Sam Justice, of the Observer, offered a flaming red tie, which can be passed on as a perfect Christmas gift, to the man who was selected by Observer readers as the (Continued on Page 5)

McKee Speaks; Sings Before French Group

Lecture-Recital of Popular French Songs Followed By Reception

Madame Matilde McKee, official lecturer of the Alliance Francaise and soloist of the Baltimore Music Club, spoke and sang in a lecture-recital presented at 8:00 P. M., November 19, in Chambers auditorium in conjunction with Le Cercle Francais, the faculty committee on lectures. Madame McKee, a native of France, first gave a short address in French explaining the origin and development of the “chansons populaires,” or popular songs of her country. She told how these songs have been sung and added to since the very beginning of the language, and handed down from generation to generation. Each province, she said, has songs which are related to the type of people and to the occupation of its inhabitants; Bretagne, for instance, being on the coast, has songs of the sea and fishermen.

Provincial Songs

As an introduction to the first group on her program, she explained that these songs make up a great part of the “chansons populaires,” and that they are usually on such everyday subjects as love, death, holidays, and the like. The program was as follows: Provincial songs—Noel Provencal, anonymous; En Passant par la Lorraine, Ruth Conniston; Berceuse Bretonne, Theodore Botrel; Le Fil de la Mort de Jean Renaud, anonymous; La Montagnarde Cassée, d'Auvergne, anonymous. Various popular songs—Il Etait un Petit Navire, anonymous; Le Renard et le Clairon, Paul Fort; Il Etait un Gars, Perrettet Nam; La Temps des Cerises, A. Renard; Il Est Pourtant Temps, arr. by Tiersot; Le Petit Clairon, Deroulede; Le Pot de Lait, Legende, Extrait de l'Operette “La Fille de Mme. Angot,” Charles Lecocq. Songs from the 18th century, or in the manner of the 18th century—Extrait de Veronique, Operette, A. Messager; Plaisir d’amour, Martini; Bergere Legere, arrangement by Weckerlin; Chantons Les Amours, anonymous; Dansez, Marquise, (gavotte), G. Lemaire. Thane McDonald, assistant director of the Davidson music department, accompanied Mme. McKee on the piano. (Continued on Page 2)

U.N.C Band Signed For Dec. Dances

Jimmy Fuller To Play For Fall Frolics

Jimmy Fuller and his orchestra, from the University of North Carolina, will play for Fall Frolics, the dances which will take place in the Charlotte Armory Auditorium on the week-end of December 4-5. Fuller’s band is quite well-known throughout the states of North Carolina and Virginia. He had a successful engagement in the Tantilla Ballroom in Richmond, Va., last spring. During the summer months his orchestra played at the pavilion at Virginia Beach, and the crowds vacationing at the beach pronounced their music as among the best that they had heard in this section. Later in the summer Fuller and his band made a trip to Europe, furnishing the music on a well-known luxury liner. Fuller’s appearance here on the 4th and 5th will be his first at a Davidson dance. (Continued on Page 2)

Queens Fetes Davidson Boys; Gala Occasion

Two Hundred Students Entertained at Queens last Thursday

Dean of Emerson College Will Present Talk On Spirit Mediums

Dean of Emerson College To Lecture on “Among the Spirits”

FIRST LECTURE OF YEAR

Speaker To Demonstrate Tricks of Mediums

Dr. E. F. Shewmake, chairman of the lecture committee, has announced that Dr. H. H. Higgins, Dean of Emerson College, Boston, and head of the division of Psychology and Education, will be the speaker of the first lecture in the series that are presented each year to the students of the college. Dr. Higgins will speakIn Chambers auditorium on Monday, November 29, at 8 P.M., Dean Higgins has been an intensive investigator of mediums for a number of years. He first became interested in the subject while working on his doctorate in psychology. To increase his effectiveness as an investigator, he made an extensive study of magic. The subject will be among the Spirit. He has won outstanding acclaim with this lecture. Wherever he has spoken, he has drawn the largest crowds. The lecture exposes the tricks and techniques used by mediums. This original lecture is set to be a dramatic moment in the scientific community. An informal discussion may follow the program if desired.

Also, Author Dean Higgins, besides being a distinguished speaker, is the author of a number of books including "Influencing the Human Mind," "The Speech of Spirits," and "Glimpses of the Unknown." Among the illustrated demonstrations in his lecture are some of the most famous tricks used by mediums.

Rev. J.A. Jones Talks Sunday
“Retrieving of Honor” Theme of Sermon

Chicora College entertained almost two hundred Davidson students at a Queens-Chicora-Davidson party held at the girls’ college. The party was arranged by Miss Mary Currie, president of the student government organization, Mrs. Virginia Miller Agnew, dean of women, and Alpha Kappa Gamma, a national leadership fraternity. Supper was served at 6:30 P.M. 

Queens-Chicora and Davidson students presented various stunts on Wednesday night at the interclass stunt contest. Davidson students voted the junior stunt the best. Thursday night, plays were presented by the science department.

Marion Bryant Is Elected To Chemical Society

The local chapter of Gamma Sigma Epsilon, the national chemical fraternity, has elected Marion Bryant of the senior class to represent the chapter in membership of the American Chemical Society. Every year, each chapter has the privilege of selecting one of its members to become a member of this society. Selection for this honor is made on the triple basis of scholarship, interest in chemistry, and service to the chapter. The nominee of each chapter must have had adequate collegiate training in chemistry or chemical engineering and must have been engaged in some form of chemical work for at least three years. An exception to this last requirement is made when the nominee is a member of an institution whose chemical department is recognized by the American Chemical Society.

National Convention In Raleigh

The American Chemical Society was founded in 1876, and at the present time, it has more than 20,500 members. It is much larger than any other organization of its kind and is recognized as the leading society in this branch of science.

Thanksgiving Day

With golden autumn leaves falling before the onslaught of Jack Frost and his icy cohorts, and a beautiful harvest moon waning, the Thanksgiving season is ushered in to a waiting world. Davidson plans for the day are not elaborate. In addition to the regular holiday from school work, which will be used to the full by some, Dr. Lingle will conduct a morning worship service in the church Thursday morning in observance of the day. Then after an old-fashioned Thanksgiving dinner, most of the school will leave for the Charlotte Memorial Stadium to see one of the best-fought games of the season, when the fighting Wildcats and the Demon Deacons tangle. And with “Teeny” in there leading the team in the final game of the season, the boys will attempt to cover themselves with glory. So here’s to one of the gladdest, brightest days of the year, replete with turkey, cranberry sauce, and all the trimmings you can hold, and flanked by a long tradition of happy reunions around the festival board.

ODK Initiation

The Kappa annual fall initiation will be held December 6. The corresponding initiation of Omicron Delta Kappa was held on last Friday evening, November 19, in Eu Hall. Professor Calvin B. Hoover, professor of economics at Duke University, will be the main speaker. The eight Davidson seniors to be initiated at that time are Cooper Adams, Dallas Herring, Haywood Hill, Pete McKnight, James Lockhardt, Watson Street, Dick Van Arsdale, and Monroe Wicker.

At the initiation of Delta Circle of ODK, the main speaker was Dr. T.K. Sparrow, a prominent Charlotte physician. After a song-fest led by Mr. F.L. Jackson, Dr. Sparrow delivered an address on the "Essence of Leadership."

Editorial Features

The Editor comments on subsidization of publicity through the press, and a reader writes on the impending demoralization of the Student Council.

An onion breath is a good protection against infection by a winter wind.