Page Four THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 1937

DAVIDSON MAY LAND PLACE IN CONFERENCE TOURNAMENT

SPORTS AFIELD

SEE THE ERSKINE SECEDERS SATURDAY

CAT CAGERS PLAY

By YATES FAISON

Will our basketball team be tendered a bid to the coming Southern Conference tourney in Raleigh? That's what everyone seems
to be talking about. No one knows but there are a few definite facts to be considered. Davidson is actually
in tenth place in the conference standings based on conference games. The Wildcats have won five games against eight losses.
The V. M. I. Kaydets and Maryland’s Ole Liners still have a chance to nose out Coach Laird’s charges. Both
have won four games, lost eight. The Ole Liners have a hope, as the drawings are to be made on
their home grounds, but they must still face the State Red Terrors. The Cadets have games with two of the
tail-enders, V. P. I. and William & Mary, and last of all, with Virginia. Who can tell?

We started a campaign at the end of the football season to get a berth in this cage tournament, and
the outcome is still in the balance. It is unfortunate that there are so many splendid teams in the Old
North State this year. We still hope for those game Wildcats, but remember that old saying to the effect that
it matters not whether you won or lost but how you played the game.

Still A Sport

The unnerving climax of the wrestling match Saturday with N. C. State raised quite a furor. When the match came
to the final bout, in the unlimited class, the score stood at 12-11 in favor of State. Due to illegal
tactics the match was awarded to Howard McFadyen, and with it the match to Davidson, by virtue of a 16-12
score. The State entrant was in disfavor with the crowd, but he did a sporting thing in coming to McFadyen
to apologize and explain. It seems that he was new to the sport of wrestling and had only been out
for ten days. He wasn’t in tip-top shape and knew he must pin McFadyen in two minutes or lose himself.
He was ignorant of the rules and he was doing the only thing he could to win. You see, here
again, there are always two sides to every situation.

Incidentally, I talked to this man on Friday afternoon for a good while about the State football situation. He chatted
amiably and seemed to be a true gentleman. He is from the north, but he has an open mind about
the “mixed element” dispute at State. He is a sophomore and is there on an athletic scholarship. Some of his
facts were enlightening as to the true state of affairs in Raleigh.

State Spirit

One thing that was surprising was his logical explanation, whether true or not, of the difference in spirit at State
as compared with Davidson. He claims the work is harder (hark, ye intellectual grumblers). He went on to show in
his case he is studying engineering, and it is virtually impossible for him to mingle with and know his fellow
students. Thus all spirit is crushed!

SPRING MANIA

Spring begins her invasion of the campus sport life. Soon the crack of horse-hide against bat and those raucous yells,
so endearing to the diamond fan, will become a regular part of campus activity. Coach Laird is starting his season
in a coach’s true form by mourning a lack of talent and calling for any and all experienced men to
lift the 1937 diamond artists from the doldrums. Pitchers are most needed, so all you potential Hubbels and Deans come
on out and give yourself a chance to develop.

Whew, after a month’s lay-off, this column writing is a hopeless task. But we'll all be there in Raleigh yet—to
cheer for our team!

ALIEN CINCH INTO

Davidson, Maryland, and V. M. I. In Race For Eighth Conference Position

N. C. AND W. & L. FAVORED

Hard Schedule Insures Cats’ Chance For Berth

Basketball in its last week and seven teams have virtually clinched their berths in the Southern Conference tournament, which takes
place in Memorial Auditorium at Raleigh, March 5th and 6th. The participants will be the first eight teams in the
final conference standings. The present standing is: Washington & Lee, North Carolina, Duke, N. C. State, Wake Forest, South Carolina,
Richmond, Furman, Virginia, Davidson, Maryland, V. M. I., Clemson, V. P. I., Citadel, and William & Mary. Davidson stands tenth,
but Furman is ineligible because it has not played the minimum eight contests and Virginia has stated that it will
not compete. This puts the Wildcats in eighth position theoretically.

Referees Named

It remains to be seen whether we will be ousted or not for in the event that Maryland wins over
State tonight, or should V. M. I. take two of its three remaining tilts Davidson will be overtaken on the
last lap. Drawings will be made at College Park, Md. on Saturday night before the last conference game which will
be between V. M. I. and Virginia next week. Referees for the set were announced to be “Footsie” Knight, “Gummy”
Proctor and Paul Menton. All arrangements are in the hands of Dr. R. R. Sermon.

The University of North Carolina Tar Heels will be defending champs and will find keener competition than ever before. Their
record for the year shows 13 wins to three losses to conference foes, one of these being inflicted by Davidson
and another by State. Washington & Lee, last year’s runner-up and this year’s favorite, shows 11 victories in 12 contests.
Rivalry is growing between the two since the upset last season and the forecast is that if the finals can
be half so exciting as that last long-to-be-remembered 10 minutes of the W. & L.-Carolina final in which the Tar
Heels overtook the Generals’ 20 point lead, the 1937 tournament will survive all its publicity and our expectations.

COACH McEVER HOLDS FOOTBALL SCRIMMAGE

Red Team Defeats Plucky Grays By 12-6 Score

The first scrimmage game of the spring season was held Monday, Feb. 22, the Reds scoring a 12-6 victory over
the plucky Grays. The Reds were given the ball on the first play and after Lafferty picked up some yardage
on three line plays he punted to the Grays’ forty, where it was downed. Hand, Gray quarterback, then punted far
up the field. Lafferty grabbed the ball and started sprinting down the field but was swamped by a wave of
Gray players. The Reds continued up the field and crossed the goal on a pass from Lafferty to Williams. The
pigskin then see-sawed back and forth, the Reds having the upper hand most of the time. Both teams pushed far
down the field on long drives but couldn’t break through the other’s iron defense for a score. Then Johnny Sadler
ran wild on a 60 yard dash, slipped past the out-maneuvered Reds to score a touchdown. This blow enraged the
Reds and they swept down the field. Lafferty scored a touchdown on another 60 yard run.

PAUL & CRYMES, INC.
SPORTING GOODS
415 South Tryon Street
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

QUINTETS ANAMENT

SOPH ACE

NED IVERSON, flashy Davidson forward, who is ranked among the top flight of Southern Conference scorers. Ned is a sophomore
from Miami, Fla., and has played brilliant basketball for the ’Cats all season.

Cat Grunters Defeat State

State’s Record Broken in Exciting Match

The Davidson wrestlers upset N. C. State’s pace-setting matmen here last Saturday, 16 to 12, in an exciting match featured
by the upset of Vass over undefeated Thompson of State. Both teams won four matches, and with Davidson trailing 11
to 12, McFadyen was awarded a referee's decision over Coon for slamming. This proved to be the margin of victory
and State went down, 16-12. Lochlan Vass pulled a surprise when he won a 43-second time advantage in one extra
period over Thompson, heretofore undefeated in conference circles. Charlie Sears took the only fall of the afternoon, pinning Hein after
one minute and 49 seconds of grunting.

The summary:
118-pound class: Bell (NCS) time advantage over Blue; 126-pound class: Cheslock (NCS) time advantage over Lowrance; 135-pound class: Sears (D)
pinned Hein with head scissors; 145-pound class: Shiver (NCS) extra period time advantage over Parker; 155-pound class: Fort (D) defeated
McLaughlin; 165-pound class: Troxler (NCS) advantage over Ellis; 175-pound class: Vass (D) advantage over Thompson; unlimited class: McFadyen (D) won
from Coon when the latter was disqualified for slamming. Referee, Jackins (Barium Springs).

The Wildcat grapplers were to grapple the University of Tennessee Vols at Knoxville Saturday, but the match has been called
off. Their next grunt session will be against the Maryville (Tenn.) Teachers College near Knoxville. The ’Cats won their match
with the Tennessee Teachers last.year.

BASEBALL TEAM TO BEGIN WORK WITH TEN VETS
Practice Sessions Under Coach Flake Laird Will Begin Next Week

FACE TOUGH SCHEDULE
Promising Sophs Strengthen ’37 ’Cat Roster

Ten regulars from last year’s varsity team will return for the 1937 season. Of the ten regulars, nine are lettermen.
Practice sessions will begin next week, although the pitchers and catchers have already started working out. Davidson is expected to
have a good baseball team this year, as several sophomores up from last year’s nine are expected to put up
a strong fight for the positions. Among them are: J. D. Hicks, a promising hurler, along with Hemphill, Steer, Stair,
and others. Regulars from last year’s lineup include: Captain Bill Quick, shortstop; Kellam and Neal, catchers; Yearwood, pitcher; Bankhead, second
base; Moyer, shortstop; Howard, third base; and Jim Dickson, Lafferty, and Clark, all outfielders.

Davidson has a 25-game schedule this year which includes some of the strongest teams in this section. They open the
season at Spartanburg, S. C., on March 26, when they meet the strong Wofford nine. The rest of the schedule
is as follows:

March 27—Presbyterian there.
March 29—Oglethorpe there.
March 30—Oglethorpe there.
March 31—Erskine there.
April 2—Duke here.
April 3—Duke here.
April 6—South Carolina there.
April 9—State here.
April 10—State here.
April 12—North Carolina here.
April 15—Duke there.
April 16—Duke there.
April 19—Catawba here.
April 22—Wake Forest there.
April 23—Wake Forest there.
April 26—Oglethorpe here.
April 27—Oglethorpe here.
May 1—Catawba there.
May 4—State there.
May 5—State there.
May 6—North Carolina there.
May 10—South Carolina here.
May 14—Wake Forest here.
May 15—Wake Forest here.

WILDCAT TRACK ACES ENTER INDOOR GAMES
Davidson Enters Nine Events In Conference Meet

The Wildcat trackmen will make their debut in Southern Conference circles when they participate in the Southern Conference Indoor games
at Chapel Hill Saturday. Davidson will enter nine events which are: 60 yd. dash—Mokey Faison, Walt Dickson, and Frank Harrison.
70 yd. high hurdles—Monroe Wicker. 440 yd. dash—Bill Hickman. 70 yd. low hurdles—Wicker and Wade Barrow, Harrison, and Faison. One
mile run—Dave Woodward, Bruce Parcel, and Harry Kuykendall. Two mile run—C. Walker, Frank Brown, and Williams Telford. Broad jump—Dickson. Shot
put—Dave Warden. High jump—Bill Black, the only freshman entrant.

If her hobby of the last three years is to be used as evidence, the wife of Dr. Joseph T.
King of the University of Minnesota’s medical school has retained much of her girlishness. She has collected more than 1,500
dolls of all sizes and nationalities.

—VISIT—
White Drug Company
For Prompt and Efficient Service
Magazines - Fountain Pens - Toilet Articles
“Davidson’s Oldest and Best”

CLOSING CAREER
Shown above is MAURICE PEABODY, who is playing his third year on the Wildcat Varsity. Although he is one of
the quintet’s leading scorers, he is a fine team player and probably the best passer on the squad. Peabody’s constant
ringing of long shots at crucial moments has been invaluable to the team.

Tennis Team Faces Hard Schedule in Spring Play

Baby Deacons Bump Kittens
Final Contest Dropped By Davidson Frosh

The freshman basketball team closed an in-and-out season in the home gym last Saturday night as they dropped a 27-46
decision to the Wake Forest freshmen. This game was a preliminary to the varsity Davidson-Wake Forest clash. The Davidson frosh,
led by Thomas and Phipps, had flashed their best form of the season up until the last ten minutes of
the game and were trailing 23-24 at that point. Then the Wake Forest attack began to click and the Davidson
frosh were unable to stem the Baby Deacon scorers, who had previously gained a victory over the Wildkittens at Wake
Forest.

Although the season would be considered unsuccessful from the won and lost standpoint, Coach Chet Chapman did some fine work
with the limited, green material on hand, and doubtless helped some freshmen along who will see varsity service in years
to come. Throughout the season only the strongest opposition was met, and the play of the frosh was at times
brilliant. Benny Harrison, Rea Tenney, and Jim Thomas were outstanding stars of the season. Tony Casali, Tommy Glenn, and Bobby
Phipps also played well.

SEMI-ANNUAL MEETING
(Continued from Page 1)

Professor of English for a number of years, was raised to a full professorship, as was Dr. A. V. Goldiere
in the French department.

Team To Be Built Around Carlson, Kenney, Frampton, and Boggs

With the return of Harry Frampton, regular on last year's varsity netters, to school, the prospects for the tennis team
this year are exceedingly bright. Frampton, who turned out to be the season’s find as a sophomore, played in the
fifth position, and he is expected to reach even greater heights this year, having had a season of experience playing
as a regular on the varsity team. The team this year will be built around such stalwarts as Captain Carlson,
Frampton, Boggs, and Kenney, and with these four players forming the nucleus, the varsity racquet men should really go places
this season. The team will not be chosen until after the spring tournament. Carlson, winner of the fall tournament, and
Kenney, who was runner-up to Carlson, will be seeded first and second respectively. Other members of the squad who are
among the outstanding prospects for a position on the team are Feuchtenberger, White, Herzog, Sloan, Jones, and Woodward. The courts
are being prepared and all the courts will be in perfect shape for the tournament which is scheduled to start
around the first of March. Five new nets have been bought and courts are now being reserved for members of
the varsity squad who wish to practice.

The tentative schedule for this year is as follows:

Date School Place
March 18—N. C. State here.
March 22—Presbyterian there.
March 23—South Carolina there.
March 24—Emory there.
March 25—Georgia Tech there.
March 26—Mercer there.
March 29—Rollins College there.
March 31—Furman there.
April 3—North Carolina here.
(Continued on Page 6)

- Davidson Theatre -
Thurs.-Fri. Feb. 25-26
LLOYDS OF LONDON—
Sat. Feb. 27
MAKE WAY FOR A LADY—
Anne Shirley as the lady, with Herbert Marshall
Mon.-Tues. March 1-2
WINGS OF THE MORNING—
That New French Star, Annabella, with Henry Fonda
Wed. March 3
NANCY STEELE IS MISSING—
“He-Man” Victor McLaglen—with Walter Connolly

CATS DROP TWO CONTESTS TO TWO TEAMS
Cagers Lose to Wake Forest, 44-33, and South Carolina By 40-29
WIN OVER CHARLESTON
Iverson, Quick, and Peabody Lead Week’s Play

The Wildcat basketeers went into a slump last week and came out on the short end of the score in
two out of their three games. Playing their last conference game of the season, they met the Deacons of Wake
Forest here in Alumni Gymnasium Saturday night and went down by a 44-33 score. Coach Red Laird started a combination
composed of Iverson, Peabody, Hicks, Quick, and Tice—the quintet that downed the Deacons on their home court the previous week.
For several minutes the two teams played on even terms, but then Wake Forest, led by its sensational sophomore forward,
Jim Waller, began to forge ahead. Time after time Captain Quick rallied his team but the Lairdmen were unable to
stop the high-flying Deacons, who led at half time by 26 to 15.

Cut Lead
In the second half, the Cats could not cut down the Deacons’ lead, staying just eleven points behind most of
the time. Bill Quick played best for Davidson’s quintet, scoring 8 points. Iverson and Peabody followed him with 7 counters
each. For Wake Forest, Waller was outstanding. Using a one-handed, overhead shot that was impossible to guard, the Deacon ace
rolled up 14 points, shooting from all angles. During the game, he shot at the basket seven times. Six of
them swished through without touching the rim and the other rolled around the rim several times and finally dropped outside.
His other two points were garnered on free throws.

Thursday night in Columbia, the ‘Cats dropped a fast and well-played contest to the Gamecocks of South Carolina, 40 to
29. Ned Iverson was the high-point man for Davidson with 8, followed by Kiesewetter with 5. Podge Hutto, dynamic guard,
led the winners with 12 tallies.

Beat Charleston
In a non-conference game, the Cats defeated the College of Charleston for the second time this season here Wednesday. The
substitutes played most of the contest for Davidson and rendered a very good account of themselves. By virtue of their
losses to Wake Forest and South Carolina, the Cats slipped back to tenth place in the conference. However, they are
still in the running for a bid to the tour-
(Continued on Page 6)

J. O. Jones, Inc.
New Hart-Schaffner & Marx Suits For Spring
Trumpeter Gaberdines, Plaids, Stripe — Single and Double Breast
$35.00 to $45.00
Others $25.00 to $30.00
J. O. Jones, Inc.
