WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 1937 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Three

C. B. CHAPMAN SENDS LETTER FROM ENGLAND
President of Last Year’s Student Body Is Now Rhodes Scholar
DESCRIBES OXFORD DAY
Studies in Medical Department Of Oxford

(This is the first in a series of articles written especially for The Davidsonian by Carleton Chapman, Rhodes Scholar and Davidson graduate of the class of '36)

The kind invitation of the editor of the Davidsonian has been very often in my mind, but has had to wait for fulfillment till now because the so-called “Oxford system” has a way of gobbling up every second of one’s time, a fact that Drs. Vowles, Cumming, and Mr. Lilly will substantiate in full.

Oxford, A Revelation

Oxford, England has been a sort of revelation for me in more ways than one. In the first place, I didn’t dream that there was so much to learn about the working of these bodies of ours, and, as I am constantly reminded on all sides, “I ain't seen nuthin’ yet.” Furthermore, the sun actually shines here as much as it did at Davidson, though I must admit with less brilliance. One reputation to which England lives up to in full, however, is her amazingly consistent capacity for making terrible coffee.

In Davidson's Library are doubtless more than a few books which give, in a more readable style than I can command, an account of the life of an Oxford student. However, to the best of my knowledge, there is no book in print which gives an adequate account of the life of a student at Oxford, for which reason I venture to write down a day’s routine at Oxford.

Annoying Rule

To begin with, there is in most colleges at Oxford a very annoying rule to the effect that each student has to attend roll-call or chapel a certain number of mornings a week at the unheard-of hour of seven-fifty. In England, eight o'clock in the morning seems more to me as five o'clock seemed at home. Accordingly, the chapel bell, strangely like the Chambers Building bell in sound, gets me up each morning for roll call or chapel. I usually plod through two quadrangles to the baths, after attending roll call, and dash back, after a hot bath, to dress before my own tiny fireplace. My scout, a blustery old Welshman, brings in my breakfast promptly at eight-thirty. Four mornings a week I have to gulp it down in great haste and race on my bicycle to the science building for nine o’clock lectures. The rest of the morning is usually spent in the dissecting rooms. At one, I go back to my rooms for a lunch of bread, cheese and—milk.

Full Afternoons

The afternoon is passed either in the dissecting rooms again, or in the histology laboratories. For every afternoon to be occupied is extremely unusual at Oxford. Most students have the afternoon entirely free for sports. As a rule, I make it a point to get away in time for a lively game of squash or a few turns around the track before tea-time. The custom of tea in the afternoon is not altogether foreign to me, since for my first two years at Davidson I was a loyal occupant of Watts dormitory. I might add that in England, I believe even the most staunch supporter of Georgia dormitory would accept the custom of afternoon tea with the greatest pleasure. To me, it is the best of four daily meals, and affords a very welcome rest period in the rush of the ordinary day’s work.

Hours Before Dinner

The two hours between tea and dinner not uncommonly find me reading in the Radcliffe Library. Dinner is served at seven.

(Continued on Page 6)

“Every Job a Good One”
CARS FOR RENT
M. P. Henderson
GAS & OIL
Standard Printing Company
117 Garland Court
Charlotte, N. C.

SPONSORS FOR MID-WINTERS

Above are sponsors for the Davidson College Mid-Winter Dances to be held Feb. 12 and 13 at Charlotte Armory. The girls pictured are Top row, l. to r. Miss Jane Alston Sanders, of Campbellsville, Ky.; Miss Elizabeth Gammon, of Charlotte; Miss Helen Harwood, of Richmond, Va.; middle row: Miss Dorothy DeWeese, of Washington, D. C.; Miss Beda Carlson of Greensboro; Miss Lucy Anne Howard, of Concord; bottom row, Miss Rebecca McRee, of Trenton, Tenn.; Miss Dorothy Bagwell, of Atlanta, Georgia; and Miss Jane Ellen Taylor, of Charlotte. The figure Friday night will be led by Ed Armfield, with Miss Beda Carlson, and Ken Knorr, with Miss Lucy Anne Howard.

College Radio Programs Will Be Largely Musical

Symphonic Band Will Be Supplemented By Guest Soloists, Groups

The Davidson College radio programs, which began again this week, will feature primarily the college symphonic band, supplemented by guest soloists and other groups. Station WBT in Charlotte will present these programs at 10:30 every Tuesday night.

In addition to the musical program, there will be interviews of Davidson personages, under the direction of Conrad Frederick Smith, alumni secretary. To be interviewed during February are Dr. Walter Lee Lingle, president of the college; Mr. Norman W. Shepard, director of athletics; and Mr. Frank Lee Jackson, business manager of Davidson.

Professor James Christian Pfohl has stated that this year a map will be kept, on which will be designated those places from which reports and letters are received. The music department of the college plans to prepare each month a sheet of programs to bepresented for that month.

COLLECTION OF MUSIC GIVEN TO LIBRARY
Valuable Duplicates of Sousa’s Own Pieces Presented to Mr. Pfohl

A large new library of overtures and standard concert numbers has recently been awarded to the Davidson College band by Dr. A. A. Harding, director of the University of Illinois band. This library constituted a large portion of his personal collection of band music. The presentation was made to Mr. J. C. Pfohl, Davidson band director, when he attended the national orchestra and band clinic at Illinois in January. Dr. Harding stated that in making this gift he hoped to help the Davidson band in its work.

The late John Philip Sousa, famous band director, left his entire music library to the Illinois bands. A large number of the pieces in his library duplicated those already owned by Illinois. The exact number is not known as yet, but it is these duplicates that Davidson is to receive. Many of these editions are (Continued on Page 6)

BULLETIN WILL BE SENT TO HIGH SCHOOL GRADS
Revamped Catalog Also Figures in Publicity

MUSIC ORGANIZATIONS TO MAKE TOUR SOON

The Davidson Glee Club and Little Symphony Orchestra will leave on a three-day trip on February 21. This trip will include appearances in the Church of the Wide Fellowship in Southern Pines, at Flora Macdonald College in Red Springs, and Presbyterian Junior College in Maxton. These groups are also scheduled for appearances at Queens-Chicora College in Charlotte on March 3 and Converse College in Spartanburg, S. C., on March 11.

The administration is going to carry out the same publicity program this year as last year. The office of the Registrar had published in January a bulletin which will be circulated as a publicity measure. The title of this bulletin is "Choosing Your College" and it will be sent to 20,000 boys in all the high schools of six southern states. These states are North and South Carolina, Georgia, Mississippi, Alabama, and Virginia. These states were the only ones from which records of first-year students were available.

Another part of the publicity program is the matter of the college catalog. The administration, in view of the fact that this year is the Centennial Year, has undertaken to have a special edition of the catalog published. The catalog will be more attractive all around this time. The color has been changed and also the appearance of both the front and back has been altered. It is not definite as to when this new catalog will be out, since it is subject to change at a minute’s notice. However, the material is in the hands of the printer now, first proofs have been received and if everything goes as planned, the new edition should be available by the 20th of the month.

Each year the catalog contains information concerning college history, equipment, entrance requirements, graduation requirements, courses, and student activities. This year, in addition to this, it is planned to append several features dealing with the college Centennial. Although the cover has not been definitely decided upon, it too will treat of the Centennial.

PRIVATE DINING ROOMS FOR PARTIES

“Idol of the Airlanes” Is Former Symphony Artist
Jan Garber, Contracted For Mid-Winters Dances, Began Career During War

WON FAME IN FLORIDA
“Genial Jan” Comes to Davidson From Dallas, Texas

Jan Garber, now known as the “Idol of the Airlanes,” and recognized as one of the best orchestra leaders in the country, began his successful career by order of the government. When he enlisted in the war he was ordered to form an orchestra to amuse the men in the training camps. It is also strange to note that if he had not received a broken nose he would never have become leader of one of the best dance orchestras. He preferred baseball to music and while in Philadelphia he be- (Continued on Page 6)

NO MORE CLOGGED-UP FOUNTAIN PENS
Fix your pen with this new ink creation—Parker Quink! Quink cleans a pen as it writes—a Parker Pen or any other. Dissolves sediment left by pen-clogging inks. Always rich, brilliant—never watery. Get it at any store selling ink, 15c and 25c. Made by The Parker Pen Co., Janesville, Wis.

Herbert Marshall says: “...a light smoke is a joy to the throat”

An independent survey was made recently among professional men and women—lawyers, doctors, lecturers, scientists, etc. Of those who said they smoke cigarettes, 87% stated they personally prefer a light smoke. Mr. Marshall verifies the wisdom of this preference, and so do other leading artists of the radio, stage, screen, and opera. Their voices are their fortunes. That’s why so many of them smoke Luckies. You, too, can have the throat protection of Luckies—a light smoke, free of certain harsh irritants removed by the exclusive process “It’s Toasted”. Luckies are gentle on the throat!

A Light Smoke

“Before I came over to this country an English cigarette appealed to me because it was firmly packed. In America I tried various popular brands looking for the same virtue. Lucky Strike led all the rest. And what’s more—I soon discovered that Luckies were a light smoke and a positive joy to the throat.”

HERBERT MARSHALL
FAMOUS RKO RADIO PICTURES’ STAR

THE FINEST TOBACCOS— “THE CREAM OF THE CROP”
“It’s Toasted”—Your Throat Protection AGAINST IRRITATION—AGAINST COUGH

Copyright 1937, The American Tobacco Company