Page Six THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, APRIL 7, 1937

Viehman Is Interviewed On D.C. Program By Smith

Pageant Director Discusses Plans For Centennial Program in June

BARITONE SOLO PLAYED

Large Number of Alumni Present at Program

Tuesday night of this week came another of the weekly Davidson broadcasts to a large number of radio fans and
Davidson alumni, not excluding the Davidson student body. The program opened with “O Davidson” and “College Ties” by the Symphonic
Band, which is the significant opening of all the radio programs. Wilbur Edwards, the president of the student body, was
again the announcer.

The first number on the program was the march, “On the Mall,” a popular march by Goldman, a famous composer
of marches of today. This was followed by an overture by Holmes, “Panora,” which was ably played by the college
Symphonic Band. Mr. Theodore Viehman was then interviewed by Conrad Fredrick Smith, the Alumni Secretary. Mr. Viehman is the writer
and the director of the pageant which will take place at the time of the Centennial Celebration in June. The
spectacle is to be presented in two parts. The first, the pageant proper, will feature dramatic re-enactments of incidents in
Davidson's history. This part will be realistic, presenting only actual events. The second section, however, will be symbolic in the
form of a masque. Its purpose is to show the various forces that have vitally affected Davidson's future.

After the interview, the Symphonic Band continued with “Anchors Aweigh,” a popularly known song of the Annapolis cadets. “My Pi
Kappa Phi Red Rose” by Thompson was then beautifully rendered by the quartette, and this was arranged into a four-part
harmony number by Mr. Pfohl. Julian Helms rendered a baritone solo—"Drink to Me Only with Thine Eyes.” After this solo,
Tyler Port, a popular Davidson Senior, gave the campus news and current events of the past week. The Symphonic Band
continued the program with “On, Brave Old Army Team,” a number by Egener. Nearing the end of the program, the
band gave a beautiful rendition of “London Suite” by Vail. The program ended with the weekly hymn “Rock of Ages.”
The program again came from the Chambers Building on the Davidson Campus.

GIRL’S VIEWS

Miss Fayette Dale Distinguishes Between Stanford and California Men

A “ten-cents-a-dance” girl, pretty Fayette Dale, of a dime dance hall, talks of university men from her “cheek-to-cheek” observations of
them. “It's an easy matter to distinguish between California and Stanford stags. A Cal. man talks more, asks for more
dates and brags about his ‘rowdy complex.’ The Stanfordites are all ‘Cards.’

“The boys from the ‘Farm’ do more of their dance step on their partner's toes than do the California lads.
The famous gentleman complex is true as far as my observation goes. They read a higher grade of books and
are more punctual in excusing their dance faux pas.

“The best dancers claim to be eco majors, and the worst,” says Miss Dale sadly, “are the engineers.”

Franklin D. Roosevelt, Jr., intends to enter the University of Virginia Law School next fall, he has informed Acting Dean
George B. Eager.

Speaking statistically, a Pennsylvania State College reporter has found that his institution’s 690 resident faculty received their degrees at 162
different colleges and universities in the U. S. and Europe.

A “Giant Club” at San Jose College has been organized for males who stand six feet four or over in
their stocking feet. There are only 12 members and, of course, the tallest is the president.

WARNING: People who carry glass bottles shouldn't.

VIEHMAN DISCLOSES (Continued from Page 1)

scenes giving some salient point in the history of the past. The masque will show Davidson as it is today,
and a short speech by President Walter L. Lingle will be a prospect for the future. Seven hundred and fifty
costumes will be used in production with many students filling several parts. The whole performance will not last more than
two and one half hours, it was stated.

Rehearsals are not to begin until the second week in May and all rehearsals will be short. No speaking part
will have more than 12 or 15 lines to a speech due to the great number of scenes to be
given. Rehearsals will not conflict with academic work, Mr. Viehman emphasized. The participants will not be called upon for costumes,
for these will be furnished.

Professor Fleagle is the general chairman in charge of the pageant. The following faculty committee heads have been appointed by
the Centennial Committee: Professor Mebane—Stage Construction. Professor Fulcher—Lighting. Professor Goldiere—Costumes. Professor Erwin—Casting and Rehearsals. Professor Lyons—Scenery and Properties. Mr. Magill—Tickets,
Seating and Policing. Mr. Fred Smith—Publicity.

On all of these committees, students are wanted and will be asked to serve by the chairmen. Mr. Viehman will
also select four or five student assistant directors who will aid him in production. There is something you can do
to help.

BOWERY BALL (Continued from Page 3)

the Charlotte Armory. The Band? A surprise, but a good one. Watch for the announcement.

DR. FRANK CALDWELL (Continued from Page 1)

tragedies, first, passive adaptation when the individual takes life as it comes and can't be bothered with tottering worlds. They
let it come and let it go. Second, the way of the sinning, when they live a sour, sneering life,
like a cynic criticizer that makes no positive contribution to life and does not take the intellectual way of going
through life. These frequently become anarchists or deadly murderers. Third, the way of side-stepping. The saddest way of side-stepping is
suicide and the commonest way is drink. In other words, they run away from the trouble. The cruelest way is
dope. Another quite common way not recognizable is divorce. He stated that he was not taking the position that some
divorce cases were not justifiable, but all too often divorce is a way of side-stepping a tottering world.

Then, he stated, there is a right way of facing a tottering world, that is to accept the challenge and
to build anew. In the process of rebuilding, the inflicted find satisfactory results in life. The philosophy of Christ and
an inexhaustible source of power to keep on going are ways to get away from the other three undesirable methods
of facing tottering worlds.

Dr. Caldwell closed with a story of a seminary student who had found out that he would soon be blind.
He goes to tell his girl and she refuses to marry him. He does not fall, however, but he faces
the facts and builds anew. Dr. Caldwell closed with a poem written by this student.

DAVIDSON WINS(Continued from Page 4)

Crisp D, and Warden D. Discus: Lipscomb S. C.; Craig, S. C., and Johnston D. High jump: Lyles S. C.,
Lipscomb S. C., and Hinson S. C. Javelin: Spigner, S. C., Johnston D.; and Cumbie D. Broad jump: Dickson D,
Spigner and Knight, S. C., tied. Davidson took the relay, which also counted in the scoring. The relay team was
composed of the following: Abbott, Bixler, Poe, and Hickman.

JACKSON MADE HEAD

(Continued from Page 1)

Delegates enjoyed a luncheon at Emory and an evening formal banquet at the technical school. A model initiation of five
boys from Georgia Tech and three from the University of Richmond was staged in the handsome memorial chapel of Emory.
On Friday night the visitors were entertained at a ball held in the ballroom of the Biltmore Hotel at which
girls from Agnes Scott and Washington Seminary were also guests. The closing business session was on Saturday morning. It was
announced that the next of the national conventions, which occur every other year, will be held at Washington and Lee
University, where the organization was founded. This will be the 25th anniversary of the fraternity, and an elaborate celebration is
planned.

The newly elected national officers are as follows: Mr. F. L. Jackson of Davidson, president; Dr. Francis W. Shepardson, of
Granville, Ohio, vice president; Dr. William M. Brown, of Washington, D. C., executive secretary; and Dean R. K. Bell, of
the University of Alabama, treasurer. Other members of the new general council are: Dr. Guy E. Snave- ly, president of
Birmingham-Southern and newly elected executive secretary of the Association of American Colleges; Dr. Norcross of Dickenson College, Carlysle, Pa., and
Professor Moore of Millsan.

PRO LEAGUERS

(Continued from Page 4)

vision club, while the Boston Redskins are rated an outside chance at the flag. Pitching strength, as usual, will probably
be the deciding factor in determining the champion when the teams enter the final stretch. The Cleveland Indians are predicting
great things for Bob Feller, the schoolboy sensation. If Bob comes through, Cleveland will be very much in the running.
The Detroit Tigers are greatly worried about their mound staff as Schoolboy Rowe and Tommy Bridges appear to be the
only first-class twirlers on hand.

Phi Literary Society Selects Committees

The regular meeting of the Philanthropic Literary Society took place yesterday (Tuesday), at which time there was an impromptu debate,
and plans were made for the remainder of this year. Various committees were appointed for next year, and it was
planned to have the election of new officers held as soon as possible. Because of the interest of the members,
it is planned to have in the future a faculty member as a guest at each meeting to join in
the discussion and perhaps to make a short talk.

TWO FIRES

(Continued from Page 1)

started from a defective stove, but was discovered in time for practically all of the furniture to be saved from
the doomed building. The loss of the house was partly covered by insurance. For several years the Smith residence has
been a boarding house for Davidson students, and at the time of the fire approximately 30 students were boarding there
regularly. At present time most of these are living under the same management at the Davidson Hotel.

ORGANISTS GATHER

(Continued from Page 3)

sor Schinham’s talk, students of North Carolina Organ Teachers gave a recital in the University Methodist Church. What a columnist
of The Minnesota Daily heard at the Miner’s shindig: “Here, John, put my purse in your pocket. It won't hurt
your figure any!” By betting on horses, a professor at an English university is trying to show his students concretely
the folly of gambling.

Pre-Med Fraternity Sets Different Type Meetings

Frosh Tennis Tourney

Under the direction of Managers Lloyd Feuchtenberger and Hector McGeachy, the freshman spring tennis tournament is being played when the
weather is favorable. Rea Tenney and Lochlin Hunter appear to be the cream of the freshman tennis material, and the
team, built around these two outstanding racqueteers, should enjoy a very successful season. A match scheduled with Reynolds high school
of Winston-Salem was rained out Tuesday.

No More Dieting

Plump gals at St. Lawrence University are “daily dozening” in old-fashioned style to make the red hand on the scale
tell less weighty truths. Knee-bends and arm exercises are just a few of the “pound-dissolvers” included in this new course
instituted by Miss Jean Bell, head of the woman’s physical education department. The course is designed to do away with
foolish dieting practices and provide a sane means of reducing.

Fearing that a great deal of his 2% pounds will suffer a hard paddling, Donald Sweet, Ithaca College freshman, is
doing what nearly everybody is these days—conducting a “sitdown” to escape a warm initiation from his Kappa Gamma Psi brothers.

Forthcoming Meetings Will Be Attended Only By Initiated Members

BIDS TO BE SENT SOON

Prominent Physicians to Be on Future Programs

Alpha Epsilon Delta held its last meeting on Friday, April 2 in the classroom of Dr. S. C. Lyon. This
meeting was a business meeting in which programs for the remainder of the year were to be discussed and planned.
At this meeting it was decided that all of the forthcoming meetings would be closed to the public and open
only to those belonging to the fraternity. In the past several interesting lectures have been given by several prominent doctors
in this vicinity for the benefit of Alpha Epsilon Delta. These were open to the public.

They decided that for forthcoming programs they would have some internes from hospitals in Charlotte and from Duke University to
discuss obstetrics. They also asked Dr. Lyons to give a short course in embryology to terminate after several meetings. Papers
are to be prepared and read by certain members of the group from time to time. Other prominent doctors are
to be asked to address the fraternity in the near future. The date for the next meeting has not been
definitely set, but it will probably be within two weeks' time.

UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY

RICHMOND, VA.

B. R. LACY, JR., D.D., President

Two fellowships for study abroad, and three for study at home, are awarded each year to members of the graduating
class at Union Seminary. Members of all classes are eligible for scholarships.

Copyright 1937, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.

Everybody enjoys refreshing mildness in a cigarette... everybody likes good taste and pleasing aroma. These are the things that make
smoking a pleasure. For all the good things that smoking can give you, we invite you to enjoy Chesterfield Cigarettes.
