Page Six THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 1937

REV. WOODSON SPEAKS HERE
Speaker Takes Dwight L. Moody’s Life as the Subject of His Sermon

The Rev. Dr. Marshall Woodson, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church in Salisbury, was the guest minister at the Vesper
Service last Sunday night. The invocation was given by Dr. Kenneth Foreman of the faculty. Dr. Woodson read the first
four verses of the twelfth chapter of Genesis for his text. The pastor took the life of Dwight L. Moody
as the subject of his sermon. He gave the most important events in Moody’s life and showed how he was
always a faithful follower of God.

Dr. Woodson said that Moody's success in life was due to five characteristics. The first was complete surrender to God.
He continually sought a clearer knowledge of God’s will, and tried to do it. His love for men was one
of his outstanding traits of character. He looked everywhere for men to save, and asked thousands of people, “Are you
a Christian?” He enjoyed saving people and left a business career to do so. His love for the Bible was
the third characteristic. He studied the Bible early every morning, because he wanted to use God’s word and not his
own in his talks. Next, he was a man of prayer. Dr. Woodson said, “He lived, moved and had his
being with prayer.” He had his prayers answered many times during his life. The last characteristic was one given by
God. It was his experience of the infilling power of God's Holy Spirit. This is the same power that has
possessed all of the great religious leaders.

The special music for the service was “Come, Holy Spirit,” by Burdette, and was sung by four members of the
Glee Club. This quartet consisted of Jim Ballard, first tenor; Harper Beall, second tenor; Wilson Northcross, baritone; and Stewart Oglesby,
bass.

DR. FOREMAN TEACHES COURSE AT RICHMOND

Dr. Kenneth J. Foreman, of the Davidson faculty, spent twelve days during the month of January in Richmond teaching a
course in “The Use of the Bible in Practical Problems” at the General Assembly Training School. Each year the training
school holds three short terms during which classes are conducted for the benefit of church workers. It was one of
these classes which Dr. Foreman taught from January 16 to 27, for a period of two hours each day. The
school gives a Master of Arts degree to college graduates for two years’ work in the institution and these classes
are allowed to count toward the degree. Although the training school is for women only, both men and women are
allowed to take these courses, the only requirement being that all the students be graduates of a college or recognized
junior college. Davidson students will be interested to know that Dr. W. L. Lingle and Dr. W. J. Martin, former
Davidson presidents, have both been president of the Assembly Training School.

C. B. CHAPMAN (Continued from Page 3)

thirty, amid great formality. Formal academic attire is required, which in my case involves the hasty donning of a ragged
black “commoner’s” gown. Dinner is served in the magnificent college hall, around the walls of which are the portraits of
college dignitaries since the fifteenth century. It is reasonably safe to predict that the fare will consist of gravy soup,
a fish course, roast beef, and cabbage and potatoes. After dinner, a half hour is squandered over a cup of
coffee in the Junior Commons room, or in the rooms of a friend. It is difficult to get down to
real work before nine o'clock. The routine, of course, is varied now and then. In the evenings, when possible, I
go to the movies, most of which last term were American movies which I had already seen, or occasionally I
attend a play or concert.

ELEVEN NEOPHYTES ARE INITIATED INTO ALPHA PHI EPSILON
Members Chosen on Basis of Debating Ability

Alpha Phi Epsilon, honorary forensic fraternity, held a meeting Friday, February 5 at the Kappa Sigma house. At this meeting
eleven neophytes were inducted into the society. A large feed was a feature of the meeting. President Sugg, with his
usual sparkling wit and stinging sarcasm, presided very capably over the session.

The main feature of the meeting was the initiation of new members. One of the requirements made of the new
men was a two-minute extemporaneous talk on some timely and informative subject. All of the candidates gave excellent examples of
this type of speech. Some of the more interesting were: “Mokey” Faison’s talk on “Which is larger—a bird's-eye view of
a bull, or a bull’s-eye view of a bird?” In this most enlightening address Mr. Faison built up in a
very interesting manner his opinion that a bull's-eye view was the larger. Bill Marquiss spoke on: “Does a hose burn
up or down?” Joe Calvin gave a lecture on the proximity of the sea to the shore. John Reisner spoke
on, “Should sit-down strikers take setting up exercises?” Other initiates presented short talks on amusing subjects.

Following is a list of those who were taken into this forensic fraternity: Sophomores—Bob McClelland, Bill Marquess, John Reisner, J.
Sherrard Rice, Joe Calvin, Locke White, and Ken McLean; Juniors—Bill Rader and Bill Kiesewetter; Seniors—John Allen and A. M. Faison.
This fraternity selects its candidates from those students showing forensic ability in the student body. The chief sources of selecting
these men is from the students trying out for the debating team yearly. Working in conjunction with the debating team
and the forensic council this fraternity...

DR. HOOD GIVES TALK TO BIBLICAL STUDENTS

Dr. Frazer Hood, professor of Psychology here, went to the Columbia Theological Seminary in Decatur, Ga., during the examination period.
While he was there, he delivered two lectures. Dr. Hood took a subject that was related to both his audience
and his own interests. This was: “Psychology Applied to the Study of the...Bible.” The audience for Dr. Hood's talks was
composed of the members of the student body at the Seminary and also of many invited ministers from that section.
These lectures were given on consecutive nights of January 26 and 27. On his way back to the college, Dr.
Hood stopped over in Atlanta, Ga., for a short time, where he met several Davidson graduates. There is a striking
relation between religion and psychology, and it was brought out in both of these talks which Dr. Hood made. Especially
is there need for the use of psychology in the interpretation of dreams that are in the Bible.

SIGMA UPSILON HEARS TALK BY DR. CUMMING

Sigma Upsilon, honorary literary fraternity, held its first meeting since the Christmas holidays Monday night. The meeting convened at nine
o'clock in the Phi Delta Theta house. Dr. Cumming furnished the outstanding talk of the evening in a biographical sketch
of the life of Thomas Hood, the famous English poet and humorist. Another interesting literary discourse was presented by J.
H. “Herby” Ross. Among the faculty members present were Professor Lilly, Dr. Hood, and Dr. Goldiere. The serious side of
the meeting adjourned at about ten-thirty and refreshments were then served. The fraternity holds as its principle the forwarding of
interest in debating throughout the student body.

Alberto Salvi
WORLD FAMOUS HARP-IST who will appear in Chambers Auditorium, Tuesday, Feb. 16, in continuation of the Davidson College Concert Series.

COURT MARTIAL WILL BE GIVEN HERE SOON

The senior class in R.O.T.C. will hold its annual court martial on the evening of February 24th in Chambers Building.
Charges of being A.W.O.L. and of disobedience of orders and disrespect to superior officers will be brought against First Lieut.
J. O. Branton by Col. John W. Rhett. President of the court will be Jack Branch, battalion commandant. John Winn
will be the law member of the court. The prosecution will be in the hands of Trial Judge Advocate Tyler
Port and his assistants, Ken Scott and Roy Bigham. Branton will be defended by Ralph McClelland, Wilbur Edwards, and Ed
Finley.

“IDOL OF THE AIRLANES” (Continued from Page 3)

He began practicing with major league clubs. He returned to his music, however, when he looked off and caught the
ball on his nose. He worked so hard after his accident that he soon gained a place with the Philadelphia
Symphony Orchestra. After the end of the war, Garber decided to be a professional orchestra leader. He organized a string
trio and became successful with it in Washington, D.C. Garber added to his orchestra and won his national fame while
in Florida, during the business boom. He stayed in Florida for five years, fulfilling what was to be a two-week
contract. At the height of his success, “Genial Jan” changed his style from his original novelty entertainment and jazz to
his soft lilting dance rhythm. Many expected failure for him after this, but when they heard him they realized he
was far better than ever. As one of the top dance bands, Garber has filled engagements all over the country.
He played from the Aragon and Trianon Ballrooms in Chicago for quite a while, and also from the Catalina Island
Casino for two seasons. He played at the Texas Centennial recently and comes here from Dallas.

VOWLES REPRESENTS OXFORD IN CAROLINA

Dr. G. R. Vowles, German professor of the Davidson College faculty, has been requested by the Oxford Society to act
as its official representative in the state of North Carolina.

When women graduates of Grinnell College marry, they stay married. Statistics released from the alumni office show that only one
divorce has occurred since 1930.

FOUR OUT OF FIVE COME TO Johnson’s Barber Shop “A TRADITION OF DAVIDSON MEN”

Salvi Instrumental Quartet Caroline Solfronk, flute, Ann Hawrliw, violin, Alexa Robert, viola, Goffredo Mazzari, violoncello, and Alberto Salvi, harpist, will
present a program in Chambers Auditorium, Tuesday, February 16. This noted group of players were secured by the music department
of Davidson College in continuation of the Davidson College Concert Series.

FRAT BASKETBALL TEAMS (Continued from Page 4)

Jones, Phi Gam, was high scorer for the game, chalking up 8 points, with Sample, S.P.E., scoring 7 points. Friday
saw the third game of the series played off, when the S.A.E.’s trounced the Kappa Alpha cagers by 14-5. The
victors took the lead early in the game and maintained it throughout. Williams was high scorer for the winners, with
9 points, while Faison, also an S.A.E., was next with 5 points.

COLLECTION OF MUSIC (Continued from Page 3)

Now out of print and are quite valuable. This addition will rank Davidson’s music library as one of the best
in the South. The University of Illinois bands are said to be the finest college bands in the world. They
consist of three organizations of 120 players each. Two members of last year’s Davidson band, Kenneth Long and Donald Pfohl,
are playing at Illinois this year.

MAKE YOUR HEADQUARTERS DURING THE COMING DANCES AT THE LITTLE PEP W. Fourth Street Charlotte, N.C. Remodeled, Enlarged, Air Conditioned

Copyright 1937, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.

From tobacco farm to shipping room...at every stage in the making of Chesterfield Cigarettes...Job Number One is to see that
Chesterfields are made to Satisfy. In the fields...at the auction markets...and in the storage warehouses...Job Number One is to see
that Chesterfield tobaccos are MILD and RIPE. In the Blending Department Job Number One is to “weld” our home-grown tobaccos
with aromatic Turkish to the exact Chesterfield formula. In the Cutting and Making Departments Job Number One is to cut
the tobacco into long clean shreds and roll it in pure cigarette paper. Chesterfields are made to give you the
things you enjoy in a cigarette...refreshing mildness...pleasing taste and aroma. They Satisfy.
