Page Four THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, OCT. 13, 1937

WILDCATS TO TACKLE POWERFUL GAMECOCKS

FROSH SHOW PROMISE AGAINST VPI GOBLETS

SPORTS AFIELD

Kittens Are Overwhelmed

Techs Take To The Air To Snellin, and G Tain took to the air to down the Wild Kittens 19-0. The game played at Blacksburg last Friday opened the season for both teams. Rose and Woolwine starred for the visitors in a brilliant performance. Davidson received the kickoff, and marched down to the VPI 10-yard line by successive plays. In an effort to gain this deserved recognition, Manager Sam Cothran and Captain Charlie Bixler have presented to Athletic Director Norman Shepard the petition which is quoted below. Shepard announced that the Association will take action on this very shortly. All men who have had soccer experience or who are particularly interested in the game are urged to come out for practice.

Due to the interest shown in soccer by Davidson, the Goblins, led by Woolwine, passed to Jepson for the first Davidson touchdown. Woolwine passed to G for the second touchdown. In the third quarter, Rose intercepted a pass and ran 60 yards for the third touchdown, but it was called back. The Wild Kittens made four first downs to the Kaydets' two. Davidson completed two passes out of four attempted, those completed resulting in a touchdown.

Davidson Frosh Pos V.P.I. Frosh
Preble LE King
Sigmon LT Donaldson
Snelling LG Arnold
Lady RG Holland
Sharp RT Hemphill
Wallin RH Bausley

Davidson's fighting Wildcats, minus the services of "Teeny" Lafferty and four other regulars, dropped a hard-fought battle to the V.M.I. Cadets, 7-0, on a rain-soaked field in Lexington, Va., last Saturday. Davidson threatened early in the game, after driving 50 yards to the shadow of the pay line, but the Cadet forward wall repulsed the attack and later they marched the ball down the field for a touchdown. Paul Shu, brilliant sophomore, was the spearhead of the Cadets' attack and earned the touchdown after carrying the ball for gains of 15, 19, 3, and 7 yards each try. Davidson came back strong late in the second quarter, but their efforts were to no avail as the halftime whistle caught them on the Cadet five-yard marker.

The second half was a nip-and-tuck affair with both teams playing safe and punting. Bailey, Wilson, and Fred Dennis played one of the best games of his career against V.M.I. Besides doing his usual job of running interference, he carried the ball a number of times. All season he has been distinguished by his ability as a blocker and will be in there fighting against South Carolina when Davidson plays in Columbia.

George Jones took Rod Williams into camp with a 6-1, 6-0 victory. Lock Hunter, another promising player, advanced into the second round with a straight set triumph over O. V. Armstrong, 6-3, 6-1. Kenney, top-seeded player, out-rallied and out-maneuvered Dick Lindsey, 6-3, 6-2.son ere a ure ay liant play. Frank Harrison got off en ie : : hdd Lindh fads f a anal Boni $ ; eat Eines (HansEL RE Davia Iseman in the line turned in the Vane Rennialovanwiialine ave - ; | several nice s that pu avid- ; PAG Mac McConnell overwhelmed Dave NG Ot harrier iiebe | seen hee best performances. In the “All- McLean 6-0, 6-1. B. Plyler had a ; state harriers will be on ° son into scoring position, In the American!’ | Saddl ery AK fore he came! hand Satarday afternoon to meet D: 7 | . ‘ | line, Luke Graham, who was} /S™@erican, Jineup Saddler was by fight on his hands before he came Fea BL Saat a ct AVICGSON anc | ; CG i re El Parether heal Daaheote nm anar nao out on top of a tussle with Johnny. Hdcat varsity cross-country | team on the five mile home course. Coach Whittle and Captain Parcell are optimistic as to the outcome of this conference State lost stay in other years. MacQueen, 6-1, 6-4, Harry Frampton, winner of ,the last year, + this year, behind Ken- Reinhardt, spring tournament is seeded No Tenney, and second for maim meet, who has Davis, their The out- ney, are seeded in that order. Last the State Wolves fin ished seven points ahead of David- in the Conference meet, and the Wildcats plan to win by a large margin this weekend to avenge fall's Coach Whittle “We to beat State, because the boys have been come of the tournamnet will play a picking the tennis year in lite large part team this year. son Southern last defeat. Juniors, Seniors in Tag Football Wins lhiree intra-mural football games says, expect working very hard and are in good have been played since the last shape. ssue of The Davidsonian came out lwo weeks ago when Duke was Khe Seniors won out over the luck-| OVeTWhelmed by a 19-40 score the less Sophomores, the Juniors. romp- re Mold ALY Gy tne UEeS en) Rvonn Hen leccshimuir canine cS ene aa: mile ‘course, but Saturday the iors avenged an earlier defeat by a Pure in Com pere Quan UNsriule beating the Freshmen_also. Stretch Vise trials this afternoon The Seniors came from behind wll determine ue Sees Dove wit in the second half of their game will start against State to win oyer a plucky Sophomore Walker and Woodward will prob team. The seore at the end of the ably run it out Saturday for the game was 6-6 but the Seniors had best time, and if®this happens it + first downs to the Sophs’ 2. Both should be a fast race. Both boys teams scored on passes ‘ have been running fosether for the Passes from Charlie Sample to, Ufst part of the season, and no Swede Johnson and Locke White, ™atter what the outcome this week were too much for the Freshmen, (Continued on Page 6) and they went down 12-6. Sample, White for the Jun-) of ten to do it. In , and Freshmen Hogg, Williams,) the second overtime period the Sen Dale, Craver looked good. The but it took two extra periods torlttiseis ane minutes each fief lors scored, and got two more first Reid Nieswetter Seniors also beat the Fresh-| downs caught a from the pass nien tor score, 4 NAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA AAA AL > FAUL & CRYMES, Inc. - - Sporting Goods - - 415 South Tryon St. Bowling! Billiards! REX RECREATION DeLuxe Ice Cream —and— 20th CENTURY BOWLING AIR-CONDITIONED YEAR ROUND FREE TELEPHONE DAAMAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAS Mooresville, N. Phone 56 | | | | | | | | Charlotte, N. C. There’s seventy one million 4 57 (71,000,000) hairs in the — —<——— j 7 ° I< overcoat illustrated above Cc | TODAY’S POPULAR SPORT eee’ BOWLING! Don’t Believe It? || Ron : \< On Saturday Nights—or any other night—take her out Ask “Bill” Quick iE Rent to bowl. She’ll like that! Take her where she'll feel 3 ” at home. < At F M. P. Henderson THE HEALTH oe THE CHARLOTTE > Gulf Gas and Oil CENTER ; BOWLING CENTER J. O. JONES, Inc. || 3 : 1211 South Tryon 112 W. First St. SF | with Gamecocks in Columbia next Satur- t shape and sent t any led back in Little has made ru hi A a year of service behind them pre- sent oa be S.C. to Glash * The Davidson Wildcats expect to! the powerful South The five VN lay Lane Pe are expected to start. Don MeCallister’s boys will he Cats have faced this year ervice, all of which ire 1 par with each other, the ocks boast the best reserve erial in the Southern The by a. spectacular Dick numerous that "the person of against ed this every team is lac season, once the Vide retting away from Mlabama Crimson Phe r"¢ team ly of versatile and ittack. So at top form when they tangle Carolina regulars that missed rounding into pre- one of the strongest teams that With one,of four teams ready topsee rated on Game- ma- Conference. South Carolina team will’ be sophomore Little, long he almost powerdul is composed almost en- Junior lettermen, and with experienced switched from his ‘tackle position to] “. Saal os with Green and Benfield standing uard, played what was considered ; ; out in the line. Poss McLean was the spark plug of the 'Cat defense before he was forced to leave the y many the best game of his ca- Ireer, Luke stopped everything that came his way. cold, and several | PAinec lea ANE aee | times threw the Cadet backs fon /ien Ce aca ury losses, | Davidson Pos. V.M.I. | | 3 ae | , Williams (C) - LE -. Brittingham ; Sigma Phi | (sNilltae it, iflddtay € A iGoodinaiie. == he. oe Gray | Epsilon Abell wor Ges Irby CHEMUNG, aol) and you Pres. Lyons WanuGi cusses 2. Bieldat (GC) should set the style in Nicholson RE -...... Taylor {| SHIRTS for fall. WAM Rspereerpys (OJ). eee eas Kovar| Dennis = HB _. Chapman} BGitys gemeaees 1s Hs Pepe less eed 1 Shu} Bolin\ seseo sesh) SP recial Touchdown, Shu; extra point,| Shu (placement). Officials: Ref-| erce, Magoffin (Mich.); umpire,| Preas (Ga. Tech); headlinesman, | MacKintosh, (Mass. State); field} judge, Fitzpatrick C(W.&L.) | Johnson’s Barber Shop i. INVISIBLE RE-WEAVING SERVICE INDEPENDENCE BLDG. CHARLOTTE, N. C. 50! efreshing with good things * Demi Bosoms should and will wear the Manhattan and Wilson Brothers shirts. WITH * Pleated fronts ® White collars and cuffs | to eat Ice-cold Coca-Cola, trom your ow a natural partner of good things to buttered and salted the handy six ® Tabless tabs collars ® “Five O’Clocks” | neem ODatiz collars ° Broadcloths * Chambrays | | COLORS: | Cross stripes on demi- bosoms, stripes and neat checks, all in maroons, greys, greens, blues and brown, = n For Your Entire Wardrobe . . . Visit MARION DAVIS CO. | 205 S. Tryon Street CHARLOTTE, N. C.. refrigerator, is eat. Try it with Popcorn. It’s easy to get in -bottle carton from your dealer, SS-150-75