Page Six THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 1937

SEAY WRITES ARTICLE ON DAVIDSON COLLEGE

“A Century at Davidson,” was the title of an article appearing in the State magazine recently written by Majel Ivey
Seay. The article contained many interesting facts about Davidson College, among which was the fact that Davidson is the only
college within an area of one hundred and fifty thousand square miles with as high a rating as can be
given by the Educational Association of America, the Association of American Colleges, and the Association of Colleges in Southern States.

Taking up the historical background of the college, it was stated that the present student body and faculty came from
an embryo of sixty-five students and three faculty members. The idea of founding the institution became pregnant in the minds
of the North Carolina Presbyterians at a meeting of the Concord Presbytery at the Prospect Church, March, 1835. In closing,
many interesting sidelights into the amounts paid for room, board, tuition, etc. were given as well as an interesting history
of the manual labor system that was in use at Davidson for some years.

ATTENDANCE RECORD OF U. OF MINN. BROKEN

The homecoming attendance record at the University of Minnesota was shattered by 5,000 this year, when 64,000 fans saw the
Gophers smother the Hawkeyes.

A “BLESSED EVENT”

“Lady,” a black and white foxhound of St. Louis, Mo., knows how modern society prepares for “blessed events.” On the
verge of having pups, she walked into the Washington University clinic and wagged her tail for recognition. A few days
later “Lady,” attended by nurses and interns, gave birth to six puppies.

CAN TWO LIVE AS CHEAP AS ONE...?

College women’s clothing costs more than college men’s clothing, according to a survey of 42 men and 56 women on
the Texas Wesleyan College campus. A complete outfit for a woman averages $78.90, while a complete outfit for a man
averages $60.40. The only item for which males pay more than females is hats.

SEIFERT TALKS (Continued from Page 5)

Winston-Salem, as well as Greensboro, his topic being “The Platoon Attack.” Major James L. Ballard is now preparing to present
similar lectures, as he is to succeed Major Seifert in this duty. The R.O.T.C. department is already beginning to prepare
for the visit of the Corps Area Inspecting Officer, which is anticipated during the latter part of May. The conduct
of the usual inspection will be his duty.

STUDENT BODY (Continued from Page 3)

days paid from $1.00 to $5.00 per student in fines. For undetermined reasons, upperclassmen seem to harbor more fear for
courses in economics and business than for courses in any other department; at the end of each week, slips filled
with absence reports arrive at the dean's office from the economics and business instructors. Math seems to stand forth as
the pet antipathy of the members of the freshman class, who avoid it as much as possible. A few students
went through the first semester of this session without missing a single church, chapel, or class, while some students have
been known to acquire a total of as many as 65 cuts in one term.

QUINTETTE OFFERS CONCERT PROGRAM

Instrumental Group Composed of Harp, Flute, Violin, Viola, and Cello

Tuesday, February 16, the Salvi Instrumental Quintette presented the third program of the Davidson Concert Series, in Chambers Auditorium. Alberto
Salvi directed the quintette, composed of Salvi, harp; Caroline Selfronk, flute; Herman Clebanoss, violin; Robert Alexa, viola; Alfred Mazzari, cello.
The program was:

1. Sonata A Quarto, by J. B. Loeillet; played by violin, cello, and harp.
2. Quartette in D Major No. 28, by Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart; played by flute, violin, viola, and violoncello.
3. Etude in A Flat, Fredrick Francois Chopin, played by all.
4. The Fountain, composed by Salvi; and played by all.
5. Variations Libres Et Finale, by Pierne; played by flute, harp, cello, and violin.
6. Bourree, B Minor, by Bach-Salvi.
7. Minuetto, by Haydn.
8. Waltz De Concerto, by Salvi; played by all.
9. Quintette, by Jean Cras; played by flute, violin, viola, and cello.

Between the fourth and fifth selections and between the sixth and seventh selections, Mr. Salvi played harp solos.

CHEMURGIC COUNCIL (Continued from Page 5)

of these has already been established, and starch will be made from a sweet potato. Last, Mr. Fritsche said that
alcohol as a fuel was one of the coming industries. This will be a blend of alcohol and gasoline, the
farmers furnishing the material for the alcohol. If a shortage in gasoline comes, as some expect, this new fuel will
help to preserve the gasoline. This council has its headquarters in Dearborn, Mich., and has been helped to a great
extent by Mr. Henry Ford, the automobile magnate.

MONKEY BUSINESS

Wildcat super-gymnasts received the hearty applause of the crowd at the Davidson-Wake Forest contest.Bobby Gish, Tip Harrison, John Templeton, and
Rufus Allison. PP of the bash tbhall fans between the halves of They are as follows: Jerry Harris, Gene Vogler,
Elmore Holt, Coach Pete Whittle is their instructor.

Bismarck, Companion Of Students, Is Dead

The lost students of Davidson have one of their best friends. A little dog of questionable pedigree has departed from
this earth as unnoticed as he made his entrance. To show his affection for his friends, he would often follow
them to and from their classes. And often when he thought Mrs. Smith was far away, he would watch his
chance to slip in the dormitories to visit his cronies. He was always welcome wherever he went; and even when
some treated him roughly, he did not lose his temper, but acted like a true Davidson gentleman. Recently, however, his
health had not been up to par. There is little doubt to the fact that he had been missing meals
from time to time, and his condition had become such that one was able to count his ribs through his
flea-infested skin. Many were worried about this little dog. It seemed that he was definitely not on the road to
recovery. His condition continued to the extent that a certain city official had to be called to action. Everyone may
relieve their mind, because he did not have a horrible death. He went out quickly with less pain suffered than
if he had lingered on. Yes, it’s true. Our pal, Bismarck, has entered a new world.

President Writes For Christian Observer

Dr. W. L. Lingle, president of Davidson College, has for the past five years given his regular weekly contribution to
the Christian Observer. In 1925 he began a series of weekly articles for Presbyterian of the South and served in
that capacity until 1932, when he took over his weekly article in the Christian Observer, “Talks on Timely Topics.” From
that day until now he has contributed his page every week. Dr. Lingle states, “My articles are written mainly for
parents, and outside people and not so much for the ministers; I take the other people into consideration when I
am writing my articles.” In one of his articles, Dr. Lingle pays tribute to Dwight L. Moody and says that
Moody lived one of the fullest, richest lives that any mortal man ever lived, and that the Centennial year of
Moody deserves more than a passing mention.

Attends Meeting

On Wednesday, Feb. 17, Dr. T. W. Lingle went to Chapel Hill to attend a meeting of the Commission on
Historical Markers of Highways of North Carolina. Dr. Lingle is a member of this commission which selects localities and prepares
forms of statement for these historical markers. Then the contract is given to an iron foundry to prepare the markers,
and the commission has them put up. Seventy-five of the markers are now up throughout the state, especially in the
eastern part, and forty more have been approved and contracted for. The marker for Davidson is due to arrive in
the very near future.

WILDCATS DROP (Continued from Page 4)

nament at Raleigh, March 4-6. Furman is esconced in eighth place, but is ineligible because of failure to play eight
conference teams, while Virginia has decided not to enter.

TENNIS TEAM FACES HARD (Continued from Page 4)

April 14—U. of Richmond there.
April 15—William & Mary there.
April 16—Coun. Club of Va. there.
April 17—U. of Va. there.
April 21—Erskine here.
April 26—North Carolina there.
April 27—N. C. State there.
April 28—Duke there.
April 29-31—State Tournament at Chapel Hill.
May 3—Wash. & Lee here.

WE INVITE YOU TO MEET The STORRS-SCHAEFER STYLIST HUGH MAUNEY —at— “MISS MINNIE’S” Wed. and Thurs. February 24 and 25

SPRING AND SUMMER FABRICS FOR MEN’S SUITS FROM WORLD RENOWNED LOOMS

YOUR INSPECTION IS INVITED PERSONAL ATTENTION TO YOUR REQUIREMENTS

JOHNSON & ROBINSON

Make Davidson’s Centennial Program a Big Success.

TAILOR-MADE HAIRCUTS Norton’s Barber Shop NORTON & CIDROAM Proprietors

FRAGRANCE ...sun-cured in the tobacco fields of Turkey and Greece ... these are the spicy leaves that help make Chesterfields
an outstanding cigarette. It takes good things to make good things... and there is no mistaking the fine quality of
these costly Turkish tobaccos in Chesterfield cigarettes.

MILDNESS . TASTE . FRAGRANCE

These are the good things you want in a cigarette... You find them in Chesterfields.
