Page Four THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, OCT. 6, 1937

WILDCATS DOWN DUKE HARRIERS, 19-40

SPORTS AFIELD

GRIDDERS MEET V. M. I. ON SATURDAY

Cats Invade to Battle

An All-American back if there ever was one—Martin Luther Lafferty! Saturday Teeny played THE game of his brilliant career against Duke. Tackles, crashing through the center of that ponderous line, picking his holes with uncanny judgment, feinting the Dukes out of position while his mates carried the ball, skirting the ends, passing with deadly accuracy, flitting through a broken field as he returned punts and kickoffs, bringing down the runner unassisted to stop certain touchdowns, and on at least four other occasions breaking up plays that would have carried Duke the double stripe but for him. He was a whirlwind on offense and a stone wall on defense against the Blue Devils for fifty minutes of play, every second of which was a grueling fight, until he was finally forced off the field by his teammates.

Wade Compliments Teeny

After the game Wallace Wade, the Duke mentor, pushed his way into the Davidson dressing room to tell Lafferty that he was one of the greatest backs he has ever seen. A compliment not to be sneezed at, coming from the man who has four times led his teams to the Rose Bowl and coached such luminaries as Johnny Mack Brown and Ace Parker.

Albert Green Wins Annual Frosh Race

Alt the freshman i WV K it d l yy yer. ‘a Hold iS 120 ual Be ra tl e. Gree ; 10 :26.4 vere donated \ t t C Mt i i Juk lGreen, 2—Par- ive } ‘ Griery 4—White, 5—Hay, } ig Schilitz, 7—Bolin, 8—Latta, 9 the b Kit 1 10—Turner up the holes for Tee Don't Forget heey bie pegs f ea ee con ; BOWLING and POOL when he the game and 3 : it is po it he may get the Now: in Mooresville call against V. M. I. this week. Ed Ikalls, Mgr. aa us i FAUL & CRYMES, Inc. i H - - Sporting Goods - - H 3} 415 South Tryon St. : Charlotte, N. C. |: 04 04 ou ” : oa RAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAALD

Parents SUBSCRIPTION OFFER Business Manager, THE DAVIDSONIAN, Davidson, N. C, I am enclosing check for ONE DOLLAR and A LF ($1.50) for one year’s subscription to THE DAVIDSONIAN. Students Alumni

I D A A fought Virginia Powerful VMI Flying Squadron Treziciak Sparks Comeback of Cadet Team; Squadron Leads Temple Owl Eleven For Three Quarters Before Bowing Out

Juniors Down Sophs; Frosh Beat Seniors

The intra-mural season rose to a high point when the freshmen upset a highly favored senior team 6-0. The game was played in the frosh half of the field during most of the first half. Once the seniors went to the campus yard line. On the next play, Jimmy Hogg, a freshman back, intercepted from behind his goal line, ran the ball back to his forty. At the start of the second half, the freshmen began a drive from their thirty-yard line that the seniors could not stop. Passes from Bob Williams to Andy Dale, Leonard Craver, and Jim Hogg gained much ground. Then from the seven-yard line, Williams stepped back and threw a pass over the goal to Jimmy Hogg, who made a beautiful catch to give the frosh the only score of the afternoon. Dale and Hogg looked good as wingbacks for the freshmen, while Len Craver and Miller Sproul looked very good on the line. For the seniors, Brent Green played exceptionally well in the line, and Reid and Kiesewetter played well in the backfield.

On Friday, the juniors won a hard-fought game from the sophomores by the score of 6-0. The juniors were erratic at the start, and in the first half, the sophs crossed the goal line, only to have the play called back on account of a penalty. The second half of the game proved too much for the sophomores. A long end run by Charlie Sample and several long passes aided the junior march from one end of the field to the other. Eddie Steere was a factor in the scoring. Bill Marquess, “Swede” Johnson, and Tice played excellently for the juniors, while Tony Casali, Walter Wood, Bob Lock, and Fitzgerald Hunter starred for the sophs.

Bowling! Billiards! REX RECREATION —and— 20th CENTURY BOWLING AIR-CONDITIONED YEAR ROUND FREE TELEPHONE

INVISIBLE RE-WEAVING SERVICE 501 INDEPENDENCE BLDG. CHARLOTTE, N. C.

LIGHTING FIXTURES ELECTRICAL APPLIANCES GROCERIES M. H. GOODRUM & CO. ZENITH and RCA RADIOS

(Courtesy Charlotte Observer) Pictured here is “Teeny” Lafferty, whom Wallace Wade ranks with Alabama’s John Mack Brown and Johnny Cain, and Duke’s “Ace” Parker, All-American backs. The Blue Devils saw almost too much of him Saturday, and they were relieved when he went out of the game.The grandstand rose as one and applauded him.

Cat Cross Country Team Whips Blue Devils, 19-40

Last Saturday morning the Davidson cross country team, led by Dave Woodward and “Boo” Walker, defeated the Duke harriers by the impressive score of 40 to 19. The three-and-a-half mile race was run on the home course and started the season for both teams. Taking four of the first five places, the Wildcats reversed their defeat of last year at the hands of the Blue Devils. Woodward and Walker shook hands as they crossed the tape together, tied for first place with a time of 18 minutes and 41.6 seconds. Hauser of Duke placed third, followed by Bill Telford and Bruce Parcell in fourth and fifth positions. The entire Davidson team placed before Duke's fifth man arrived in. Joe Gammon finished seventh and Bob Kellogg finished eighth, while John Wilson finished eleventh. Bruce Parcell was chosen captain of the team, so he will lead Coach Whittle’s boys in their Southern Conference competition this season. (Continued on Page 6)

A woman remembered how this man would feel when he got home from work—so a frosty bottle of ice-cold Coca-Cola was ready in the refrigerator. Buy the handy six-bottle carton from your dealer. SS-150-76

HENDERSON JEWELRY SHOP
WATCH AND JEWELRY REPAIRING
NOW IN KNOX BUILDING

Cars For Rent
M. P. Henderson
Gulf Gas & Oil

THE HEALTH CENTER
12114 South Tryon

TODAY’S POPULAR SPORT
BOWLING!
On Saturday Nights—or any other night—take her out to bowl. She’ll like that! Take her where she'll feel at home.
THE CHARLOTTE BOWLING CENTER
112 W. First St.

Gigantic Blue Devils Down Fighting Cats On Richardson Field

Vaunted Devils Show Too Much Power for Gallant Davidson Team; Lafferty Outshines Hackney, Tipton, Duke Stars

Wade’s Devils Average Best

Davidson’s fighting Wildcats, paced by the scintillating Lafferty, rose to magnificent heights Saturday to fight the highly-favored Blue Devils to a standstill throughout the first half of their annual conflict. Duke's mighty Blue Devils, favorites in the Southern Conference gridiron race, took over the loop in the last two periods, losing 34-6. The Wildcats had the 9,000 fans in a state of frenzied admiration during the first half with one of the greatest exhibitions of defensive football that this section has ever witnessed. Three times the gutty Presbyterians hurled the terrific attack of the invading Methodists back from within actual inches of their goal. The entire Davidson line played superb football against overwhelming odds, and the light ’Cat line was blocking viciously to open nice holes in the towering Blue forward wall. Captain Bailey Williams, Johnston, and Hill, who played the best game of his career before he was forced to leave the game with a sprained ankle, all drew a great deal of favorable comment, but it is well-nigh impossible to single out individual stars from a line that played so well.

South Carolina’s high-riding Gamecocks who tied Georgia last week, stole the show from the Bull Dogs, but lost, 13-7. South Carolina outfits battled the Service teams. Clemson put up a tremendous battle before bowing to Army, while Citadel (Continued on Page 6)

Teeny Lafferty stood out as a diamond among so many lesser luminaries. Davidson's All-American prospect turned in what was, perhaps, the greatest achievement of his sensational career and what Bobby Dodd, Tennessee's immortal quarterback backfield and present coach at Georgia Tech, described as the “greatest single exhibition of all-round football” that he had ever witnessed. (Continued on Page 6)

Johnson’s Barber Shop

Delta and you

Pres. Dorsett should set the style in shoes for Fall...

ITS SMART TO WEAR STRIPES

COLLEGE MEN should and will wear the Bostonian and Mansfield Shoes WITH:
* Thicker Soles
* Thicker Uppers
* Heavier Shoes

LEATHERS:
* Shetland (Plump weight, barely grained, velvet soft)
* Tweed (Pronounced texture, rugged in looks and wear)
* Homespun (Sturdy, finely pebbled grain, soft and flexible, long-wearing)
* Scotch Grain (Deep bedded, two-fisted graining, flexible, a bear for endurance)

COLORS:
* Black
* Brown
* Chestnut Brown
* Cordovan

$35.00 For Your Entire Wardrobe...

Visit
Tate-Brown Co.
DAVIS CO.
205 S. Tryon Street
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
STUDENTS SHOP THIRD FLOOR