Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, OCT. 27, 1937. The Davidsonian Founded By the Class of 1915 1937 Member 1938 Associated
Collegiate Press Distributor of Collegiate Digest Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson” Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY Charlotte, North
Carolina SUBSCRIPTION RATES Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative 420 MADISON Ave New York, N.Y. Chicago - Boston - Los Angeles - San Francisco Entered as
second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879. DICK VOWLES Editor-in-Chief
CHARLES MOORE Business Manager EDITORIAL STAFF Fitzhugh Dade Assistant Editor Ov Bell Managing Editor Joe Calvin Managing Editor Wesley Coghill
Managing Editor Terrell Porter Managing Editor Perry Swan Editor Bill Marquess Editor Owen Cooke Editor Sam Cothran Editor Euclid Fant
Editor Hector Editor Yates Editor Sam Ryburn Editor Henry Baker Editor Andy Turner Collection Manager John Latimer Advertising Manager Bill
Miller Advertising Manager Wesley Coghill Circulation Manager Terrell Porter Circulation Manager Sam Hemphill Business Manager Feeling is deep and still,
and the word that floats on the surface is as the tossing buoy that betrays where the anchor is hidden.
—LONGFELLOW. Spirit Gone... Davidson has had in the past an indomitable spirit unequaled by other institutions in the South. From
all outward aspects, this is no longer true. The football squad left by train Friday for Danville and an approaching
battle with Centre. Was the student body, with its band, present to see the team off? Did the student body
apparently have any interest in the backing of the team? No! It was not long ago that the students turned
out en masse to show their support and to imbue in the team spirit, every time the squad left the
campus for a game. But we of the student body act like the alumni of our better-known state institutions. If
we win, well and good. If we lose, let's sulk about it and blame it on the team. There once
was a time when upperclassmen always went to pep meetings, but now the whole burden rests on the freshmen. Undoubtedly
something is wrong. And the mistake lies with the individual student. The cheerleaders are not to blame. The varsity cheerleader
this year is one of the best Davidson has had in many a day. He and his cohorts have done
a great deal to revive spirit but the burden cannot be laid on these five men. Davidson students are already
predicting that the team has won the only game it will win this season. Is that our attitude? Winthrop Day...
The loss of two dance sets this year has made us wonder seriously whether social life at Davidson was “going
to the dogs.” However, a certain amount of that apprehension was removed when the announcement was made in chapel concerning
Winthrop-Davidson Day. According to reports, “Queens-Davidson Day” was a decided success and is now a permanent institution. Wade Barrow was
right when he said something of the sort should be done in the fall. However, the experiment can only be
a success with whole-hearted cooperation. So, let’s have it! Omicron Delta Kappa... This article is merely an explanation. Its purpose
is not to praise ODK. Rather it is an attempt briefly to give an insight into the significance and activity
of this organization on the campus. The primary motive for ODK’s existence is not generally known. Contrary to common belief,
membership in this fraternity is not simply the reward of previous achievement. It is indeed the opening of an opportunity
for service. Men who the Circle believes will welcome a chance to continue through an organized program the constructive work
which they have formerly undertaken with no other motivating influence than their own initiative are bid to membership. By bringing
together men representative in all phases of collegiate life there is created an organization which is able to mold the
sentiments of the institution on questions of local and intercollegiate interest. An opportunity is afforded by ODK, in addition, to
bring together members of the faculty and student body on a basis of mutual understanding and helpfulness. Therefore, it may
be seen that ODK has other aims than merely recognizing achievement. Because its members, imbued solely with the desire to
make a better Davidson, took full advantage of the opportunity afforded them, the Delta Circle of ODK has in the
past done much toward the advancement of our college along many lines. It is the purpose of the present members
to continue this work, to avail themselves of every occasion for service and to maintain the standard of unselfish devotion
so evident in the past, to strive continually as an organized unit to make this, our college, a name more
respected, more admired — a name that will live always in honor and glory. WADE BARROW. With The Staff So
far as we can tell, there is nothing predictable about the future except that what has happened once will happen
again. This seems to be the case when we think of the see-saw relationship of the Church and the dramatic
art. From the dawn of history, dramatic art was in the hands, or rather in the bosom of the Church;
and that hierarchy guarded their possession jealously. Drama had its inception in religious rites. Then, however, when the grandeur of
the Church went to the head of the little men who were immune from social displeasure because they were sacrosanct
under its aegis, and they became stuffy and stodgy, the dramatic art became debased. The early Christian Church frowned severely
on representations on a stage, for the Roman stage still had a very strong flavor in their horrified memories. Unfortunately,
the Protestant Church received the suggestion that dramatic productions, unless they were strongly flavored with religious sentiments, were taboo. The
Miracle Plays were a poor substitute to be shown to posterity in exchange for Euripides. Still the dramatic club at
Davidson struggles under a tacit disapproval (for which we are, at least, grateful) and is bound, not to portray life
as it is, but only as it should be. Where is the training for life that the small liberal arts
college lays such a stress on, in contradistinction to that narrow curriculum that only teaches you how to earn your
living? Is it to be found in suppression of the more brutal side of life, merely because a cloistered existence
in a small college town is so easy to lead, apart from these brutalities that will hit every man, high
or low, after he finishes his college course? Dramatic art at Davidson is not doing any good toward helping the
students see life more clearly for the simple reason that it receives no encouragement from those who are responsible for
developing character and have the tools for doing it in their hands. FITZHUGH DADE. Health Hints By Dr. J. W.
MacConnell, M. D. Common colds cause more loss of time during college than any other disease, and often become very
serious, such as sinus and ear infection. Research work among large industrial groups such as the employees of American Telephone
and Telegraph Company, and others, show that one-fourth have repeated colds throughout the year. These groups are at times benefitted
by vaccines, for while there is no specific vaccine against colds, the severity of the attack can be reduced and
the complications lessened by using mixed vaccine. Students who have repeated colds should report to us and are advised to
take the mixed vaccine, for the severity of their attacks will be reduced and the duration shortened. These vaccines will
be given free of charge, about five injections being the usual number required, with a day’s interval between shots. Campus
News HAS SIGNED ALL BUT 18 OF THE DIPLOMAS GRANTED BY CASE SCHOOL OF APPLIED SCIENCE AND BEEN PRESENT AT
FIFTY COMMENCEMENTS! DURING HIS FIRST TEN MONTHS AS ATHLETIC DIRECTOR AT WISCONSIN, COACH HARRY STUHLDREHER TRAVELED 25,000 MILES AND MADE
175 PUBLIC ADDRESSES! HIS RECORD IS SIX SPEECHES IN ONE DAY. Copyright by Associated Collegiate Press Letters to the Editor
DEAN OF MEDICAL SCHOOL COMMENTS... Dear Editor: I enjoy very much reading The Davidsonian. I congratulate you on its splendid
composition. After I finish reading it I place it in the medical library so the students may profit. Yours sincerely,
DR. WILBURT C. DAVISON, Dean of the School of Medicine, Duke University. REMARKS ON NEW TYPE... Dear Editor: Let me
congratulate you on the new type now in use on The Davidsonian, also the vastly improved make-up of your editorial
page. Check front page make-up (three or four more stories per issue would help) and your news writing and I
see no reason why you shouldn’t get All-American rating this year. DAYMOND TURNER, '37 and Associate Editor Class of The
Davidsonian, 1937 MAGAZINE EDITOR ANSWERS WITH “HOT” LETTER... Dear SUSPICIOUS STUDENT: In your letter to The Davidsonian last week you
ask: “How can the magazine expect the student body to be gullible enough to swallow an article that may be
a mere fabrication of a member of the magazine staff?” How can the magazine expect anything else when you prove
your gullibility by swallowing just such a fabrication? Perhaps, however, you are a member of the Freshman class and have
not been at Davidson long enough to become familiar with the Davidsonian and its policies. Allow me to explain. In
the Oct. 12 issue of the paper you read—in two different front page articles—that the magazine would unveil the mystery
of thetank—that we would feature an article by the painter, giving his experiences. This you swallowed, hook, line, sinker and
then some, thinking that you yourself had caught a fish. BUT, remember, not all that glitters is gold, and all
that is printed is not fact. When The Davidsonian sent a reporter to the magazine for a story, not one
word was said or even mentioned about a water tank. It was interesting to The Davidsonian that such a story
would appear in Scripts 'n Pranks—as interesting to us as it was to you. We cannot blame the paper too
much for trying to get some news, even if it is mere fabrication. Perhaps they were badly humiliated when the
Davidson scooped them on the College Inn fire, putting out an extra the week before the college newspaper printed the
story. What we are driving at is this: Scripts 'n Pranks has no intention whatsoever of publishing any story or
article pertaining to or concerning the water tank or its painting! Any articles, stories, rumors, or news you hear to
the contrary are utterly false and without authorization, as was the initial newspaper story! —SAM RYBURN.

(We are sorry to say that we can no longer take Editor Ryburn at his word. Editor Ryburn stated above
that he denies saying precisely what he said before two members of the staff. If the magazine editor doesn’t even
know what is going into his magazine, how can we? On the other hand, it looks as though “Suspicious Student”
hit the nail on the head last week and Editor Ryburn is just backing down.—ED.)

DR. LINGLE OFFERS SERVICES

Dear Editor:
If it is possible to do so, I am always glad and eager to give out such information concerning the
affairs of the College as the students may desire. It is sometimes difficult to guess as to what would be
of real interest to students. So I am always glad when questions arise in their minds and I have an
opportunity to give the information desired.
W. L. LINGLE, President.

“The Weekly Time Table”

Wednesday, Oct. 27—
7:15 P. M.—Meeting of the Editorial Staff of The Davidsonian.
7:30 P. M.—Journalism Class conducted by Fred Smith.
8:00 P. M.—Scheduled meeting of Gamma Sigma Epsilon.
9:00 P. M.—Senior Smoker.
9:00 P. M.—“Y” Cabinet meeting (scheduled).

Thursday, Oct. 28—
7:00-10:00 P. M.—Weekly meetings of the social fraternities.

Friday, Oct. 29—
7:15 P. M.—Davidson College broadcast over Station WSOC, Charlotte.
7:30 P. M.—Student pep meeting in the new gymnasium.

Saturday, Oct. 30—
1:30 P. M.—Winthrop College seniors will arrive on campus.
2:30 P. M.—Varsity football game with Furman University on Richardson Field.
5:00 P. M.—Refreshments will be served to the Davidson lads and their dates from Winthrop.

Sunday, Oct. 31—
10:15 A. M.—Student Sunday School class meets in Shearer Hall.
6:30 P. M.—College Vesper Service in Chambers Auditorium. The service will be in the form of a sacred concert.

Monday, Nov. 1—
12 Noon—Student meetings to be held in Chambers Auditorium following the regular chapel exercise.
7:00 P. M.—Scheduled meeting of Sidhe Pi Sigma.

Tuesday, Nov. 2—
8:00 P. M.—Scheduled meetings of the Philanthropic and Eumenean Literary Societies.

Rent A Car —FROM— BILL BUSBY College Pharmacy

Right out of Comrade Frederick Smith’s bag of tricks comes news that warms the monastic hearts of Davidson men—Luscious Loveliness.
In short, Women, loads of them—yours for one afternoon anyhow... that is, if the Furman student body doesn’t show us
up... Winthrop Seniors.

CLOSED FORUM—Purloined Letters...

Dearest Billie,
I know you think ’tis strange receiving a letter from me, but I saw your picture in the Charlotte Observer
and The Davidsonian and admired it very much. When some of the girls here told me that you were anxious
to meet me, I decided to write you and see when it would be convenient for me to meet you.
I was so thrilled to know that you wanted to meet me, especially since I understand that you are one
of the most outstanding personalities on the Davidson campus. Then too, the Phi Gams have always held a warm spot
in my heart since I always go with Phi Gams when I go to the University of Alabama. Billy, I
do hope you will call me at 9295 or come over some Saturday night. Let me know if you would
like for me to come down to the Phi Gam house the next time I am in Davidson... Hoping I
see you soon, etc.

As I was snowbound somewhere in the Northwest the past weekend, I am dependent upon stooges entirely so expect this
column lacks personal touch—reason for evident cleanliness—but stumbled upon the following: Sometime on Friday, a white station wagon pulled away
from Davidson bound for points east—a KA convention in Durham... Joe Calvin, Gil Palmer—he preferred Johnny—sorry Bronston, mistaken about farmers,
Kenney Taylor, like the nice little fellow he is, forsook his mates and continued home for privacy. Slug Mathis and
Bob Wyatt with this crowd too for inexplicable reasons—but y’know KA’s.

Want to add something to the already long exploited subject in Davidsonian columns—the “fire,” a little matter of cat-calling, whistling,
etc., prep school vices to which some of our group are still addicted. Realize the celibatic strain these uncivil extroverts
labor under, but would suggest a better means of expressing emotion be found—some irony, puckering up their lips to whistle
loudly at the approach of strange fair damsels.

Choice Chunks of Chatter... At Flora Macdonald, Charlie Sample and date, seeking refuge from curious eyes, found in the library
by conscientious dean, Coghill with Dot Wright, Craver with Tankie Smith, Dick Wright with Bobbie Brantley. One Appie Means finally
caught, cornered, cowed and confessed—he never was good at guessing games. After eleven thirty-five Sat. night, over thirty-eight Davidson students
in Charlotte on bumming corner—nice social life. Rea Tenney and Loch Hunter to Atlanta to see Sam and as yet
have not returned—wonder what Sam’s got. Ed Morrow really traveling—to Jacksonville... Fox Tonissen seldom seen lately—has been entertaining Miss Dunbar
and Daniel Addison Long to State-Wake Forest game... Mysterious phone call from Davidson persons to WBT hoot owl requesting some
sort of Bells... Going to Centre, Fred Smith’s complaint of Pete Marchant as a Pullman bed mate—just like a razor.

Having trouble curbing impatient keys of my typewriter as they anticipate Homecoming’s multifarious muddle...

Take It Easy By Rut Miller

As the bug said when he splashed against the car windshield, “It takes guts to do this.” This column is
not supposed to be a dirt column, not a humor column and not an editorial column. What then, I asked
the Editor, is it to be? Confidentially it is really designed to take up space that otherwise would have to
be taken up by some silly advertisement.

Now let’s have a complaint department. First I have a suggestion sent in by Paul Kapa-ah-ah-ah, aw, you know who
I mean. He wanted the boys to stay open on Sunday, and that incidentally it would increase his business 1000
percent (he said ten times, I figured the percent myself). It is a good idea as he doesn’t go to
church anyway and therefore wouldn’t miss it. Besides, some place should be open for students and tourists, or don’t you
think so?

Another is this: why doesn’t somebody open the windows in the assembly chapel or church? There are times when but
one or two windows are supposed to furnish air for seven hundred carbon dioxide exhalers. That’s bad!

We ran across an epitaph the other day that is really worth repeating. It was on the tombstone of John
A. Brashear, the pioneer telescope maker: “I have loved the stars too truly to be fearful of the night.” Think
it over, it really has something.

Or have you heard the new definition for a college professor: “A man who talks in somebody else’s sleep.”

A tip from Emily Post that will help us check up on our girl friend. She says: “The attributes of
a great lady may still be found in the rule of the four S’s; Sincerity, Simplicity, Sympathy, Serenity.” Think a
moment, does yours have what it takes? I thought she would.

Thumb Nail Sketch: He is a senior. He lives in North Carolina. He rooms in Georgia. His grades could be
higher but they are good enough. Football is his chief interest, having himself played in high school and as a
freshman here at Davidson. His varsity prospects were good but injuries forced him to quit. His Adonis-like body and pleasing
personality act as a magnet to the fair sex but to date I have seen him with but one girl
and that was out of courtesy. Incidentally, he rooms with the Editor of the Annual. If you don’t know by
now you will have to look it up because I ain’t squealing, see?

When Away From Home Dine At Home At The Wooden Bowl 125 West 44th St. Charlotte, N. C.

YEAAAA BOYS!! Come One... Come All Have You Seen YOUR PROOFS? That Girl Friend is Waiting For Your Picture Annual
Proofs Can Be Checked Through Friday Only Silex Hughes, Campus Representative DUNBAR & DANIELS Photographers Raleigh, N. C.
