- Dr. Welcome Alumni! Z528 VOL. XXV

Mellen Will Offer Music For Dances

Two-Dance Set Will Be Feature of Homecoming Celebrations

“Melodies by Mellen” will furnish a brilliant opening for the Davidson social season for this year, by supplying the sweet music for the Homecoming Dances. This set, which is sponsored by the Pan-Hellenic Council, will consist of two dances. The first will be on Friday night, November 5th, from 10 until two o'clock. As usual, it will be a formal dance. The other dance will be given Saturday night from eight-thirty until twelve. The set will be held in the capacious Charlotte Armory.

No Tea Dance

There will be no tea dance with this set because of the football game Saturday afternoon. After the intermission of the formal dance, the members of the council and one other representative of each of the social fraternities, with their dates, will form a figure. Earl Mellen’s orchestra, which gained the hearty praise and approval of discerning Davidson students as one of the best “small” orchestras in the south at Junior Speaking last year, has been steadily increasing in popularity all over the country. It has just recently completed a swing through the north. The orchestra plays over station WMBG in Richmond, Va., being engaged now at Tantilla Gardens in that city. That Mellen is very popular at Southern colleges is shown by the fact that he played at nine others after leaving Davidson last spring.

Dr. Thompson Will Preach Sunday Night

Well Known Richmond, Va., Alumnus to Lead Vespers

Dr. William Taliaferro Thompson, Professor of Religious Education at the Union Theological Seminary, will be the guest minister at the Vesper Service next Sunday evening. Dr. Thompson is a native of Charleston, S.C. and a graduate of Davidson College, finishing in the class of 1905. Upon his graduation, he received his A.B. degree, and four years later completed his work at the Union Theological Seminary for his B.D. degree. He was ordained to the ministry of the Presbyterian Church in 1910 and became pastor of a Lexington, N.C. church. Since then he has held pastorates in Knoxville and Mobile, at which church he was serving in 1920 when called to the Seminary. During the World War, he made an outstanding record in Army Y.M.C.A. work at Camp Greene, N.C., and later at Camp Jackson.

While at Davidson, Dr. Thompson was very outstanding in all student activities. He graduated in 1905 among the leaders of his class in scholastic work and was honored by a bid to Phi Beta Kappa. Excelling as a leader, he was a member of Omicron Delta Kappa. Thompson was a member of the Kappa Sigma social fraternity.

French Meeting

The first meeting of the North Carolina Chapter of the American Association of Teachers of French will be held here on November 19 and 20. The chapter was chartered last year at Durham, and Dr. G. B. Watts, of the Davidson faculty, was elected as its president. A complete story on the arrangements and the program for the meeting will appear in an early edition of The Davidsonian.

Arrowsmith

P. H. Arrowsmith, president of the Davidson Pan-Hellenic Council, is to lead the figure at the Friday night dance of the Homecoming set with Miss Betsy Lucas of Florence.

State Host For NCCPA

Ryburn and Vowles to Represent Davidson; Gov. Hoey To Speak

On Thursday, Nov. 4, the annual press convention will swing into full sway when the representatives of colleges from all over North Carolina will gather in Raleigh as the guests of State College. The feature speaker of the North Carolina Collegiate Press Association convention will be Governor Clyde Hoey, who addresses the students on Saturday morning at the Sir Walter Raleigh. The delegates from Davidson College will be Sam Ryburn and Richard Vowles.

Other speakers for the convention will be D. H. Ramsey, editor of the Asheville Citizen, Frank Jeter, director of the State College News Bureau, Carl Goerch, editor of the State magazine. Many other important business men in North Carolina will speak. The delegates will be the guests of State College at the State-Citadel football game on Saturday afternoon in Riddick Field. They will be given a banquet at the Sir Walter Hotel on Friday night. The convention will be officially opened on Thursday afternoon at the Sir Walter hotel. The meetings will be presided over by Charlie Dunnagan, president of the Association and business manager of the Technician.

Publications Board Meets

In a meeting last Monday afternoon, the Publications Board voted on fees to be collected from the faculty for student publications. It was decided that the members of the faculty attending ample time to get to the homecoming dance afterward.

Journal

“His Life and Work”

ALENDA LUX

The Davidson

LIBERTAS UBI ORTA

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., WEDNESDAY, NOV. 3, 1937.

Two Hundred Seniors From Winthrop Are Visitors Here

Winthrop-Davidson Day Inaugurated Saturday

On Saturday afternoon, Oct. 30, at approximately 1:30 P.M., the buses from the not-too-far distant Winthrop College rolled up to a standstill in front of Chambers. A bevy of “Girls in Blue” descended into the waiting crowd of Davidson daters. Four date bureaus were functioning, pairing the girls and boys off. After the boy had his date turned over to him, he showed her the campus, maybe, and then promenaded down to Richardson Stadium to witness the thrilling game between Davidson and Furman. To make the day more perfect, the Wildcats won a smashing victory over the Purple Hurricane with the score 13 to 9. And were the femmes thrilled! After the game, supper was served in the banquet hall of Chambers for the guests. The wives of the faculty members were hostesses at this reception. There were also some parties and feeds given in the fraternity houses, in honor of the Winthrop-Davidson Day. At six-thirty o'clock, it was necessary for the girls and boys to terminate their good time, because the buses had orders to leave on the dot. As the last bus pulled out, a sorrowful looking bunch of students waved (Continued on Page Eight).

Fall Issue Is Released

The Alumni Journal for the fall of 1937 has just been released. The cover of this issue features a freshman with cap in hand and opened book. Woodrow Wilson, resting against his chest while he gazes with awe at a large portrait of Wilson. Among the more prominent articles featured in the journal is “Davidson In the 70's,” by Dr. George F. Robertson, '78. Dr. Walter Lingle has an explanation of the centennial and the alumni dues. Frederick Conrad Smith, '26, has an interesting article entitled “Davidson Celebrates 100th Birthday.” “Jinx Pursues the Wildcats” is an explanation for some of Davidson's football scores of the fall. Another of the leading stories is “Davidson Men of Science” which features Dr. H. B. Arbuckle. Nearly half the journal is devoted to the names, addresses, and occupations of the alumni from 1878 to 1938. This should be of interest to all students as well as alumni. In the center of the magazine are two full pages of pictures of the (Continued on Page Eight).

Band Plays In Concert For Public

Organization Sponsors Performance as Benefit For Harvard Trip

HIRSCH TO BE SOLOIST

Director of Marion Band to Play Saxophone

The Davidson College Symphonic Band will present its first concert of the year in Chambers Auditorium on Friday at 8 P.M. It is being given as a benefit for the trip to the Harvard game on Nov. 13, and there will be a paid admission. James Christian Pfohl, Director of Music at Davidson College, stated that it will begin promptly at eight and will continue without intermission. This will give those attending ample time to get to the homecoming dance afterward.

Soloist Featured

Bernard Hirsch, saxophone soloist for the concert, is one of the most brilliant players to be found. Formerly solo clarinetist and conductor of the University of Michigan band, he has served for the past two summers as woodwind instructor at the Davidson Music School Camp. During the winter, he is director of the Marion (N.C.) high school band. The number he is playing, his own arrangement for band saxophone, was loudly acclaimed at the University of Michigan.

Included on the program are: Overture “Zampa” — Herold; “The Miracle Suite” — Humperdinck; “Under the Polar Star” from “Looking Upward” Suite — Sousa; “Dance Hongroise” — King; Magner, and Hirsch, sax solo by Bernard Hirsch; “Cabins” — Gillette; “Two Latin Japs” — Charrosin; “Short and Suite Short”; “La Paloma” — Yradier; “Mardi Gras” from “Mississippi Suite” — Grofe.

King’s Band Entertains At Smoker

Barrow Appoints Important Senior Committees

Last Wednesday night, October 27, the senior class held a smoker in the banquet hall of Chambers Building. Most of this social period was given over to the familiar tunes of the King’s Band, and during the hour from nine to ten o'clock, melodious strains penetrated the large room. The boys had a good time, and the event was decidedly in the minority.

President Wade Barrow was in attendance and made several important announcements regarding senior activities. He appointed the following committees: 

The Red and Black

All Hail, our Alma Mater! We pledge while breath we take Eternally, with rev’rence deep, Our stand for thee we'll make. With greater yearsHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Our love grows True loyalty—we'll ever keep Beneath The Red and Black. We honor those before us. Their faith we still hold firm. We pray for those who enter now The future's dateless term; We guard the light of learning Where freedom's standards rise; We seek the constant of truth As learning’s highest prize.

Words by Dr. and Mrs. W. P. Cummings. Music by Kenneth M. Scott, '37.

Wicker, chairman, charge evening several business orchestra of Chubby King, and cigars and cigarettes furnished them, so pipes and during the course of the matters of interest to the seniors were discussed. Three important committees were appointed as follows: Blazers, Bill Nicholson, Lawrence Reid, Morrison Wing. Class Gift: Martin Lafferty, Julian Helms, and Kenney. Senior Leader: Ralph Chandler, Euclid Fant, Pete Harris, Elwood Moyer, and Bob Green. Caps and Gowns.

Feature of Homecoming Will Be Alumni Banquet Six Hundred Old Grads and Wives Are Expected at Luncheon

Davidson College alumni this week are preparing to trek back to the campus for Homecoming, with the annual Alumni Luncheon and meeting as the features of the day, along with the game. Dr. Oren Moore, of Charlotte, president of the Alumni Association, will preside over the banquet, which is to be held in the Chambers dining hall at 12:30. Two of the most popular speakers in the Carolinas, Walter L. Miller, manager of The Charlotte Observer, and David Ovens, will speak for ten minutes each. Dr. Lingle will speak on “Davidson From the Inside.” About six hundred alumni and their wives are expected for the luncheon, and even more alumni are expected for the game between Davidson and Carolina. The class of 2000 will have a banquet in Chambers dining room the night of the game, with Roland Parker and the alumni secretary presiding. Bill Balle, a member of that class, stated that there will be a large number of them coming home for the reunion. The Charlotte and Mecklenburg chapter of alumni will also hold their annual football banquet on the same day. This was the first “get together” of the class this year, but plans are to have several more before graduation in order to discuss the business of the senior class informally.

Poet Secured To Talk Here

Dr. Geo. Shoemaker announced Friday that one other speaker besides Dean Mogard Higgins had been secured. The faculty will have to pay a dollar and a half for The Davidsonian, four dollars for the Annual, and one dollar for the Scripts and Pranks. These are the regular rates except for the Annual, which is cheaper for faculty members. The vote was taken because of the absence of alumni dues this year. In the past, the faculty members who were members of the alumni association received the publications upon payment of their dues. This year dues have been done away with so that the alumni will feel freer to contribute to the centennial fund. Sam Ryburn, editor of the Magazine, was elected secretary of the Board at this meeting. Dick Vowles, who is editor of The Davidsonian, was elected president last year. Further Annual contracts were also considered at the meeting.

Whiskey Still Discovered at Davidson

Right under the very noses of Davidson's staid and staunch Presbyterians, what apparently was one of the biggest liquor stills in North Carolina operated, nay, rather thrived and prospered, for an indefinite period. How long the business had been prior to its discovery two years ago is unknown, but the fact that great quantities of the intoxicating beverage were being produced was evident. Nobody had even an inkling of what was going on until Dr. Fred Shad, of the Bio-reduction Corporation, came to Davidson to install a new sewage system as an experiment of his company. That was in October, about two years ago. Later, Dr. Shad began to notice that corn mash floated down through the pipes, almost clogging them, every morning between two and three o'clock. At first, he was puzzled by the occurrence, but finally realized what was going on. Not wishing to involve himself in such a situation, Mr. Shad did not turn the matter over to the authorities but privately did a little checking up of his own. By the amount of mash coming through each night, he knew that this was no ordinary still run by “pikers;” the fellow who had been so audacious as to set up that manufacturing plant in Davidson was really “in the big time.” Mr. Shad casually mentioned the matter to some of his friends, and it wasn’t long before the word was around. Then, curiously enough, in about two weeks the mash suddenly stopped its regular journey through the pipes during the wee small hours, and although Shad has watched for a re-occurrence, never again was there any evidence of the still’s operation. Mr. Shad never did turn the business over to the authorities for an official investigation, but he has some idea where the plant was. He admits that it was right here within the city limits on one of the principal sewage lines. We wonder...

Dr. Louis Untermeyer, a nationally known poet and critic, has been procured to speak as a part of the lecture series. Dr. Shoemaker stated that he was particularly fortunate in getting Mr. Untermeyer, as his services are in great demand. Mr. Untermeyer's lecture is scheduled to come on the twenty-second of March, which is only a few days before the Spring holidays. Mr. Untermeyer has six prepared lectures which are as follows: “What Americans Want and Why,” “This American Language,” “The New American Arts,” “The Glory of the Commonplace,” “Mother Goose Up-To-Date,” and “A Critic’s Half-Holiday.” The lecture he will give has not been chosen yet but will be decided on within the next few days.

For Alumni Celebration

Carolina Game, Alumni Luncheon, and Dances Feature Homecoming Weekend. With enthusiasm on the campus mounting almost to fever pitch over the prospects of the always colorful game with Carolina, and the bustle and activity of the several hundred returning grads, the hundred and first Homecoming of Davidson will be ushered in Saturday. Plans for the celebration will be the most extensive yet, and the day will be crowded with action from the first bang of the gavel at the Alumni Luncheon until the last note is sounded to the day by Earl Metlen and his orchestra, playing for the Homecoming Dances.

Fraternity Decorations

After the luncheon at 12:30, there will be plenty of time for the visitors to inspect the decorations in each of the fraternity yards. Last year the SPIES won the loving cup with a section of the Carolina graveyard, and interesting and novel ideas are being planned for this year's adornments. Then the big event of the day holds the center of the stage. Davidson’s Dazzlers, up to full strength with a rested Teeny Lafferty to inspire their drive, will tackle a great Carolina team which ranks among the national leaders. Besides the natural color of the game, the playing field will again be enhanced by the beauty of twelve sponsors, who will sit on the sidelines. Three bands will strut their stuff, with the Lenoir High School Band acting as Carolina’s band. As a special feature, Mr. Pfotl has set...

Smith Holds Second Class in Journalism

Prominent Newspaper Men to Address Class

Conrad Frederick Smith, alumni secretary, has at last supplied a long-felt need by Davidson students with his journalism class. The first meeting was held last Wednesday in room 124 with about 35 boys present. Since it was the initial meeting, the time was consumed discussing plans for the course and suggestions from the men present. At the meeting held tonight, “Three Camera” Jane Houston, Observer staff photographer, is scheduled to hold a lecture and discussion on news photography. Those present were considerably startled when, at the beginning of the meeting, Sam Ryburn lurched into the room apparently intoxicated and had to be thrown out by Fred Smith. Their faith in Sam was restored when Smith explained that he and Sam had pulled that stunt as a test of their powers of observation. Then the members of the class wrote their various versions of the incident in reportorial style, and...

Editorial Features

Welcomes to the alumni from The Davidsonian, President W. L. Lingle, and “Teeny” Lafferty. Lectures which are as follows: “What Americans Want and Why,” “This American Language,” “The New American Arts,” “The Glory of the Commonplace,” “Mother Goose Up-To-Date,” and “A Critic’s Half-Holiday.” The lecture he will give has not been chosen yet but will be decided on within the next few days. For Alumni Celebration Carolina Game, Alumni Luncheon, and Dances Feature Homecoming Weekend. Enthusiasm on the campus mounting almost to fever pitch over the prospects of the always colorful game with Carolina, and the bustle and activity of the several hundred returning grads, the hundred and first Homecoming of Davidson will be ushered in Saturday. Plans for the celebration will be the most extensive yet, and the day will be crowded with action from the first bang of the gavel at the Alumni Luncheon until the last note is sounded to the day by Earl Metlen and his orchestra, playing for the Homecoming Dances. Fraternity Decorations After the luncheon at 12:30, there will be plenty of time for the visitors to inspect the decorations in each of the fraternity yards. Last year the SPIES won the loving cup with a section of the Carolina graveyard, and interesting and novel ideas are being planned for this year's adornments. Then the big event of the day holds the center of the stage. Davidson’s Dazzlers, up to full strength with a rested Teeny Lafferty to inspire their drive, will tackle a great Carolina team which ranks among the national leaders. Besides the natural color of the game, the playing field will again be enhanced by the beauty of twelve sponsors, who will sit on the sidelines. Three bands will strut their stuff, with the Lenoir High School Band acting as Carolina’s band. As a special feature, Mr. Pfotl has set...

---

Note: Some parts of the text were incomplete or unclear, so I made the best possible corrections while preserving the original meaning and punctuation.