Page Four THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, APRIL 28, 1937

SEE THE UNDEFEATED TEAM DOWN FURMAN THIS AFTERNOON

"CAT TRACK AND HERE"

“SPORTS AFIELD”

GOLFERS MAKE IT EIGHT OUT OF NINE WINS OVER SOUTH CAROLINA AND ALABAMA

“Will Teeny Lafferty be back next year?” The speaker was Eric Tipton, the young man from Duke who will give several football teams a headache when he goes crashing through the center of the line next fall. The scene was a Duke dance held last week. When he received an affirmative answer, Tipton groaned with dismay. The Blue Devils will have to watch out for an extra threat. Tipton, president of the Student Body at Duke, has recently been elected. On Friday of this week, he will participate in the Conference Tournament at Chapel Hill. Victories last week gave the Cat Netmen a total of 54 points to opponents’ 29 so far.

BEAT CENTRE, ERSKINE

Have Matches With North Carolina, N. C. State, and Duke This Week

Good News! Frank Purdy is definitely coming back to school next fall! His return will fill a big gap in the center of the ’Cat line. Weighing only about 150 pounds, Frank played 60 minutes in nearly all of Davidson’s games last fall and was a bulwark of strength on defense. With lettermen Bailey Williams, Luke Graham, Dave Warden, and Purdy back in harness, reinforced by Haywood Hill, Ned Iverson, Bill Johnston, George Mathis, and Bill Nicholson, the Red and Black line should be fully as strong as that of last year.

Keeping up the pace that it has been setting for itself, the ’Cat golf foursome took the South Carolina and Alabama teams into camp last week and indisputably proved that they are a big league outfit. Having swamped Maryville by an overwhelming score for their fifth straight win, the ’Cat cindermen are all set to stop the Furman Hurricane here this afternoon. Leonard Fort and Charlie Sample are still waging a merry battle for supremacy in the pole vault with the former now holding the inside track. He pushed his record up to 11’ 9” against Maryville Saturday.

FROSH LINKSMEN BEGIN MATCH SEASON WITH TRIP THIS WEEK

Coates, Cooper, McClintock, and Pegram Qualify

Davidson’s freshman golf team will begin its playing season this week. The Wildkitten link quartet, composed of Charlie Coates, Jim Cooper, and Bill McClintock, with Burwell Pegram as alternate, have matches with High Point and Oak Ridge Military Institute. The frosh team plans a five-day trip eastward to begin Tuesday of this week and to be terminated Saturday with the Oak Ridge contest.

Players Advance In YMCA Pool Tourney

Jim Armstrong led the array of cue-wielders into the semi-finals of the annual Davidson Pool Tournament. He defeated Bob Calhoun in the quarter-finals to gain his high position. Among others who have entered the quarter-finals with Armstrong and Calhoun are “Pee Willie” Martin and “Bones” Woodward. Martin’s victories were over Charlie Pegram and Hugh Willis. Woodward won over Billy Masters and Jim Hartzog. Armstrong had previously advanced by byes and a win over David Newbold. Calhoun’s opponents were Allan, Daniel, and Bill Norman. Those advancing to the third round were “Shorty” Bankhead, Ken Campbell, and Reid Harman. Bankhead won over George Stowe, Campbell over Andy Turner, and Harman over L. M. Allison. Second-round entrants were C. C. Clark and Teddy Schabel. Entrants in the tournament other than those already mentioned are: Deaton, Elder, Howie, Loch Hunter, R. N. Kellogg, Lindsey, Link, Henry McConnell, Mooney, Melchor, Northcross, Pennington, Pope, and Sample.

In the qualifying round held the first week of April to determine the third man, the following scores were turned in: Bill Burch—97, McClintock—96, Coates—94, Dick Henning—102, John Throop—104, Charlie Pegram and Jim Cooper—83. The four low scorers were selected to represent Davidson’s freshman class outfit with the fifth as alternate player. As Cooper was unable to meet Pegram in a challenge match, he forfeited and Pegram became number 1. Therefore, this year’s team is lined up as follows: Pegram—1, Cooper—2, McClintock—3, Coates—4, and Burch, or alternate player.

WINNING WILDCAT RACQUETEERS

Davidson's Wildcat netmen have won eight out of the ten matches played this year. Gathered together after a practice for the photographer are, left to right: Bronston Kenney, Captain Carl Carlson, Wade Boggs, Harry Frampton, Bones Woodward, Jim Reinhardt, and Howard Covington, manager. This week the team will have matches with North Carolina, North Carolina State, and Duke; on Friday they will enter the Southern Conference Tournament. (Courtesy Charlotte News).

Cat Linksters Victors Twice

Varsity Golfers Place Fifth In Southern Intercollegiate Tournament

Davidson's varsity golfers returned home Saturday after taking fifth position in the Southern Intercollegiate tournament. They now have a record of eight victories on the links. The varsity golfers defeated the University of South Carolina foursome, 12-6, at Forest Lake Country Club Tuesday, April 20. Snow was medalist for the meet with a 75. Ross (D) and Tobias (S. C.) split honors 1½ and 1½ with 77s. Snow (D) with a 75 defeated Bruner (S. C.) who scored a 78, 3-0. Snow and Ross in the foursome play, outplayed Tobias and Bruner by a 3-0 score. Maples (D) lost 2-1 to Delvach (S. C.) who shot a 79. McClelland (D) shooting 78, won over Fouche 2-1. Maples and McClelland tied the South Carolina duo 1½ to 1½.

Wednesday the Wildcat team traveled to Athens and defeated the University of Alabama 10½ to 7½ on the Athens Country Club course. The match was played in a pouring rain. Burke was low score man for the meet. Ross (D) tied Rupert (A) 1½ to 1½, both shooting a 76. Snow (D) lost 3-0 to Rupert (A). Ross and Snow lost the foursome 2-1. Maples (D) with a 79, won an individual match 2-0 from Snow (A). Westall (D) shooting 77 outplayed Blumerfield (A) 3-0. Maples and Westall won in the foursome play 3-0.

The Davidson golf quint placed fifth in the Southern Intercollegiate tournament held at Athens. Ross was low man for Davidson with a 76, 73. Maples scored 78, 81, Snow shot 81, 84, and McClelland shot 80 and 81. Westall made an 87 and 81. Ross qualified for the championship flight, which is quite an honor in the golfing world, and lost 2-1 to Rainwater of Emory in a hard-fought match in the first round. Rainwater was tournament medalist with a 68 and 73. Ross went to the finals in the consolation matches and was finalist in last year's tournament. Maples and Snow qualified for the first flight. Maples met defeat in the first round and Snow won in the consolation matches for the first flight. McClelland and Westall qualified for the second flight. Westall came out victor, defeating Ben Parham of the University of Georgia in the finals.

PAUL & CRYMES, INC.
SPORTING GOODS
415 South Tryon Street
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

WILDKITTENS DOWN BELMONT ABBEYStars as Frosh Trim Prepsters, 19-7

The Davidson College freshman team annexed two games to its win column, downing two opponents last week by the scores of 19 to 7 and 11 to 10.

On Wednesday, the Kittens had a gala day, pounding out 11 hits to win the second game of their two-game series with Belmont High. The final score of this game was 19 to 7. Jim Thomas, who hurled for the frosh, kept the visitors' hits well scattered and coasted through the last innings to chalk up his second win of the season. Anderson, on the mound for Belmont, was wild, granting ten passes which the Kittens combined with five hits to tally 18 runs during the first five innings of the game.

Frosh Defeat Charlotteans

In the second game against Charlotte High on Friday, the Kittens overcame an 8 to 3 lead and won the game in their half of the ninth. With the score tied 10-10 in the ninth, bases loaded, pitcher Heath hit Fitzgerald with his first throw, thereby forcing in the winning run. The game was featured by heavy hitting on both sides. Ficklen, who started on the mound for the frosh, was wild and was replaced by McLean, who finished the game, allowing only two hits. This week the team plays Mars Hill, and then journeys to Charlotte to again tackle the Central High boys.

Wildkitten Net Tourney Moves

Loch Hunter and Rea Tenney Push Forward to Final Tournament Match

The annual freshman tennis tournament has progressed considerably in the past week. All matches have been played up to the finals, in which Rea Tenney and Loch Hunter will meet. This match will be played in the near future in order to decide the winner of the tournament.

Tentative Team Picked

The Kitten netmen have not had any games this past week in order to allow them to finish the rounds. However, the team journeyed to Winston-Salem on Monday to meet the strong Reynolds High School team there. As this paper goes to press, the results of the meet are not known. So far it looks like Tenney, Hunter, Beall, Schabel, Akers, and Wood will compose this year's Kitten team.

Results of the Tournament Are:

Last of second round: Spenser beat Finlay, 6-4, 6-4; quarter-finals, Tenney beat Spenser, 6-3, 6-3; Beall beat Wood, 6-4, 4-6, 6-4; Hunter beat Akers, 6-3, 6-2; Schabel beat Ezell on default after winning the first set and leading in the second. Semi-finals: Tenney beat Beall, 6-4, 3-6, 6-1; Hunter beat Schabel, 6-4, 4-6, 6-4. Finals: To be played between Tenney and Hunter.

Last year the Winston-Salem netmen took two matches from the Davidson Kittens and are much improved this year. They took the first match of this year by a close score, and this week the Kittens are to have a return match with them in Winston-Salem. Much interest has been shown in freshman tennis this year; it should furnish the varsity valuable material next year.

Davidson Tracksters Win In Meet With Maryville

Demon Deacs Conquer Cats

Davidson’s Varsity Team Drops Two Contests to Wake Forest Nine

GLASS LEADS ATTACK

'Cats Rally in Second Game of Series

The Davidson College varsity baseball team on its recent trip to Wake Forest dropped two games by the scores of 13 to 3, and 5 to 2. In the opening game on Thursday, Forest Glass of the Deacons pitched and batted his team to victory by holding the 'Cats to eight scattered hits and pounding out a home run into the bleachers. Doug Neal, the Wildcat catcher, was the big gun for Davidson. Neal slapped out a homer in the third and also got a double before the afternoon was over. Eddie Steere started on the mound for Coach Laird’s team but was hit hard and retired in favor of Armstrong in the sixth inning. Armstrong later gave way to Sommerville, who pitched the last one and a third innings, allowing no hits and striking out three men.

Yearwood Hurls Well

In the second game on Friday, the Davidson boys showed up much better, losing to the tune of 5 to 2. Yearwood, on the mound for the locals, went the entire route, allowing eight hits, walking three, and striking out two. Lefty Cole, the Deacon hurler, limited the Lairdmen to five scattered hits. The Wildcats’ two runs came in the second inning when Bankhead singled, stole second, and came home on an error; Kellam, who reached first on the error, advanced to third and came home on Hemphill’s long fly to right field. These two runs put the visitors ahead, but this lead was short-lived as the Forest team iced the game in the third. Dickins scored on Campbell's single and Doigt Morris hit a home run to left field, scoring Campbell.

Clark and Howard led the hitting for Davidson with two hits each. Three games were scheduled for this week, but the games with Oglethorpe have been called off. On Saturday, the team tangles with Catawba.

Yearwood, who has been bothered with a bad arm during the earlier part of the season, showed marked improvement with his arm back in good shape. Sommerville, who started on Thursday, made a good start for himself in his first game of the season, striking out three out of the four men he pitched to. In the game series, Doug Neal, recovered from an ankle injury, was the sparkplug of the offense besides doing a fine job behind the plate.

MARION

FIVE WAYS TO COOL COMFORT

We were recently asked to pick an all-summer smart footwear variety wardrobe: We nominate

1. Plain Toe White Buck Oxford with Rubber Soles and Heel.
2. Full Wing Tip White Buck Oxford. Leather Sole and Heel.
3. White Buck, Full Wing Tip Calf Oxford, Rubber Sole and Heel.
4. Two Tone Tan and White—and Black and White. Leather Soles and Heel.
5. Buck, Straight Tip, Calf Trim.

BOSTONIANS $7 to $10
Others at $3.95 and $5

DAVIS

Phone 7939

Win Nine First Places to Take Meet, 85 to 46

IS FIFTH STRAIGHT WIN

Varsity and Frosh Teams Have Duel Meet With Furman Here Today

The Davidson track team kept its unspotted record clean last Saturday by defeating Maryville College 85 to 46 in Maryville, Tenn. Rain fell most of Saturday, but it ceased just long enough for the Wildcats to take nine first places and eleven second places, including all three places in the javelin. Propst of Maryville was the high score man, tallying 12 points, while Wicker of Davidson was close behind with 11 points.

The meet was held on a very soggy track, and thus the slow time on some of the events. Nevertheless, both teams made fine showings. This afternoon both varsity and freshman teams of Davidson will face strong teams from Furman. The freshman meet with P. C. last Saturday was rained out.

Summary

Pole Vault — Fort (D), Myers (M), Sample (D), height, 11’ 9”; high jump — Propst (M), Ethridge (M), Wicker (D), height 5’ 4”; javelin — Johnson (D), Johnston (D), Cumbie (D), distance 157’ 4"; shot — Crisp (D), Warden (D), Propst (M), distance 39’ 3”; discus — Warden (D), Johnston (D), Propst (M), distance 116’ 8"; broad jump — Propst (M), Peabody (D), Barrow (D), 20’ 8.5"; mile — Woodward (D), Walker (D), Morgan (M), time 4:48.9; 440 yard dash — Baird (M), Hickman (D), Fish (M), time 54.6; 220 yard dash — Wilson (D), Savitski (M), Faison (D), time 24.2; 100 yard dash — Wilson (D), Faison (D), Savitski (M), time 10.5; high hurdles — Wicker (D), Barrow (D), Orr (M), time 16:0; low hurdles — Wicker (D), Barrow (D), Dowell (M), time 28.3; 880 yard run — Baird (M), Brown (D), Melton (D), time 2:9; 2 mile run — Rugh (M), Telford (D), Woodward (D), time 10:58; mile relay — Maryville, time 3:45.4. Score — Davidson 85, Maryville 46.

In the meet Saturday, as well as in the other recent meets, Baxter Wilson, a junior transfer from P. C., showed marked improvement. In the meet with Maryville, he took both the 100 yard dash and the 220 yard dash on a track muddy because of a torrential downpour. Fort broke his own record in the pole vault, clearing eleven feet, nine inches.

Carnation with Ribbon and Fern furnished on any Nunnally $1.50 per pound packages... no extra charge. Mother's Day Card on entire top of any $1.00 per pound packages... no extra charge. Lace Handkerchief made of genuine linen and attached to your favorite Nunnally Package with lovely flower... price 50c extra.

College Pharmacy

Davidson's “Service Drug Store”