WEDNESDAY, NOV. 3, 1937. THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Seven

Publication Will Appear November 6

Scripts ’n Pranks Presents Wide Variety of Literature And Humor

Sam Ryburn, editor of the Scripts ’n Pranks, Davidson's literary-humor magazine, announced that the homecoming issue of the magazine will probably make its appearance on Saturday, Homecoming Day. In this issue, there will be a number of short stories. “Cave Carem,” about a policeman whose chief interest is football, is by Chubby King. Karl Hudson is the author of “Sucker,” a love story, and Bob Ramsey writes “Chapter in Chivalry,” another football story.

In addition to these stories and the usual number of jokes, there will be a page of poetry, music columns of the leading dance orchestras by Dick Vowles and Walt Heilman, a page of campus snapshots announcing the winners of the “candid camera contest,” and cartoons by Sam Ryburn and other members of the staff.

A feature of this issue is a letter to Chubby King by Bill MacIlwinen, who graduated from Davidson last year and who is now making a leisurely, nine-month cruise around the world. This letter tells of Bill's voyage to South America and of his experiences in Brazil.

Editor Ryburn announces that there is plenty of room for good writers of short stories, poetry, and humor, and that it is not too late for freshmen to try for a position on the magazine staff.

Music Groups Give Vesper Service

The annual Fall Musical Vesper Service was presented by two Davidson College musical organizations on Sunday evening under the auspices of the Y.M.C.A. The Glee Club and the Little Symphony Orchestra, under the direction of Professor Thane McDonald and Professor James Christian Pfohl, respectively, were the musical groups taking part in the service. Wade Boggs, Secretary of the Y.M.C.A., was the leader of the exercises.

The vesper service marked the initial appearance of the Little Symphony Orchestra before the Student Body this year.

James Weber, Soloist

James Weber, of Statesville, who is a prominent violin soloist, presented a violin solo, Romance, by Beethoven. Weber has a wide reputation in this part of the state as an accomplished violinist and has for the past two years won scholarships to the Cincinnati Conservatory of Music. Louise Nelson Pfohl accompanied the soloist at the piano.

The service was made up of chamber music and unfamiliar symphonic selections, with a beautiful minuet by Valensin.

Church Names Elders

At the regular Sunday morning services at the Presbyterian Church, three men were elected to the position of Elder, and the election of a fourth was deferred to a later date. After a short discussion, Dr. C.K. Brown, Prof. E.J. Erwin, and Prof. John C. Bailey were chosen for three of the four vacancies by the present elders. A long discussion followed in which numerous men were nominated. Messrs. Cloyd Potts and T.E. Lothery led the others when a vote was taken, but no one received a majority. At present, it is unknown at what time the other elder will be selected.

Approximately half a million dollars is spent in Columbus, Ohio, each year by members of 51 social and professional fraternities of Ohio State University.

HAVE A SHAMPOO for... HOMECOMING

NORTON’S

Among the South’s Best College Bands

The Davidson College Football Band is shown in its most recent photograph. This eighty-piece band has entertained many football fans this fall with its unique marching formations and stirring songs. Below are pictured three expert and talented drum-majors, Henry Baker, Julian Helms, and Fred Chetwood. The band will attend the Davidson-Harvard football game to be played in Boston on November 13.

UNC Students Surprised By Resignation of Potts

University of North Carolina students and faculty were shocked last week to hear that Ramsay Potts had voluntarily turned in his resignation. Potts, a campus leader, stated that he had secretly violated the Southern Conference eligibility rule. Rule nine of the declaration reads: “Do you receive any financial aid in attending U.N.C. from any other person than the one upon whom you are naturally dependent?” To the question, Potts answered “No.” At that time, however, he was receiving his tuition from an unrevealed source, he disclosed last week.

Potts was one of the outstanding leaders of the University, being president of both the Order of the Grail and the Golden Fleece, outstanding organizations on the campus, and a ranking Phi Beta Kappa in his scholastic work. He was rumored as a strong candidate for a Rhodes scholarship. He was a member of the varsity tennis and basketball teams.

Resigns Voluntarily

Potts voluntarily resigned from the University because he could not conscientiously abide by his statement. He presented himself before the Student Council and explained his resignation and his violation of the honor system. The council confirmed his resignation and indicated he would be eligible for admission in the winter. He called a meeting of the Grail and tendered his resignation to them, which was refused, and he will resume his office as president of that group when he returns to school in the winter.

GLOBE TROTTER McILWINEN (Continued from Page 3)

Hope and continue northward through Africa, and into Europe and Asia. From Asia, they will go to Australia, Tahiti, Honolulu, and will finally land once again on North American soil at Vancouver, Canada. The tour has been arranged so that they may possibly visit every country in the world. Bill McIlwinen’s complete letter to “Chubby” King, depicting the events of his trip, will appear in the forthcoming issue of Scripts ’n Pranks.

PAPERS ON EXHIBITION (Continued from Page 3)

The last issue exhibited the Centennial edition, which appeared last May 19. A history is given and the great contributions which the college has made to the educational world are accounted for, along with many photographs showing campus scenes and the college life led by its students. These editions have been placed in the library at exhibit and may be seen by students at any time.

FINEST FOODS

GROCERY COMPANY Davidson, N.C.

Welcome Alumni

Make this the Best HOMECOMING By Making Our Store Your HEADQUARTERS

COLLEGE PHARMACY “DAVIDSON’S SERVICE DRUG STORE”

Barber Shop

U. of Illinois Sets Pace For Football Bands

Davidson College’s musical organizations, and especially the football band, have risen to southern, and even now, to national prominence for their excellent performances.

Football Bands Feature New and Unique Marches

Coach McEver Is Questioned On Broadcast

College Songs Also Featured On Program

The originality of the entertainment put on during football games by the Davidson band has been very highly commended. Over the nation, however, many other college and university musical organizations have also been recognized for their unique and impressive performances.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

The Chief Protne Prohts band opened uniquely for football pep, which was announced as a 175 Piece Band by Kiesewetter, with Prince Phe parade from the University of Illinois band. Not rendered the victory: Dame-Illinois this fall show SEG as the work of the nation’s University of South Carolina. Critic Pee aie Hheeniingi Scores Against Alabama has an enrollment of about 350 members and are regularly divided into three units: the concert band, and the first and second regimental bands. Kiesewetter said, "During the fall, what was the greatest football band appearance?" 

At the Notre Dame-Illinois game, a band of 80 members from the second regimental band led the Military Block I cheering section to the stadium and played until the small band entered the stadium at halftime. Kiesewetter attempted to draw a prediction from the Coach as to the outcome of last Saturday's game but was unsuccessful. The Volunteers took the field fighting. Freshman Joe McCluskey, who has been serving as a sports commentator on the program, ventured out on the proverbial limb with predictions of ten of the big games that were played last Saturday, and he was fairly accurate in his prophecy. The program was brought to a close with the popular "Stars and Stripes."

Between the Halves

One of the special features of the Band's program was spelling out the word "Howdy" to the visiting Notre Dame stands. Almost immediately after that, they portrayed the football spirit of Illinois with the lively pep song "Cheer Illini" and at the same time forming a large megaphone, with letters going through the band to spell out "Yea Illini." 

At the half, the band marched down the field singing, "We Are Marching For Dear Illini." As it counter-marched, the letters "Illini" appeared and the whole word marched back to the center of the field, following the dancing Chief Illiniwek. In this formation, they sang "Hail to the Orange" to conclude their program.

DAVIDSON BARBER SHOP

Every Student Is Cordially Invited

CITY CAFE & DINING ROOM

"WHERE FRIENDS MEET TO EAT"

SPENSER BROS. MOORESVILLE, N.C.

DAVIDSON THEATRE

Wed. Nov. 3—"TOPPER"
Thu.-Fri. Nov. 4-5—"HEIDI"
Sat. Nov. 6—"FIT FOR A KING"
Mon-Tues. Nov. 8-9—"FIREFLY" with JEANETTE MACDONALD
Wed. Nov. 10—"SHE ASKED FOR IT"

Candid Cameras Intrigue Davidson Photographers

Many Students Use New High-Speed Cameras to Get Unusual Shots

The "Candid Camera" craze, which in the last year has swept the country, is rapidly becoming one of the most popular hobbies of Davidson students. A number of candid cameras are now under a year old, which is new, but which is rapidly becoming a common sight. 

More and more of the students' type cameras are appearing in the classes and on the campus each day. One of the main reasons for the increasing popularity of the little cameras is the fact that their price has come down to such an extent that the average pocketbook can afford one. The cameras range in price from around twelve dollars and fifty cents to a hundred and three hundred dollars. 

There is some essential difference between the candid camera and the regular camera. They all have been set up for candid camera work, which is characterized by the fact that it is not posed. The candid camera is equipped with a high-speed lens. Yet, one can still watch the birdie. 

The informality of the snapshot, which can be obtained by the use of candid cameras, is one of the most appealing phases of the hobby, at least to the photographer. It is interesting to the unsuspecting subject, who may be caught yawning or in some other informal pose. 

The candid camera can be carried around in a coat pocket and can be jerked out in a moment. After a few adjustments, the candid shot can be snapped. The prints usually have to be enlarged to have a uniform size picture since the print obtained directly from the film is too small for practical purposes. 

It is an interesting pastime and to the strains of Strauss' "Blue Danube," the band will also play Ferdie Grofe's "Mardi Gras" and portions of the "Overture" from Rossini's opera "William Tell."

WHEN IN MOORESVILLE

SHOP AT

KENNERLY’S GROCERY STORE

HIGH QUALITY - LOW PRICES

---

Belk’s Dept. Store
Mooresville, N.C.