Officers Case Before Court Martial

ALENDA Z528 LUX Che Mavidsonian UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Mark Bills To Present Folk Songs

VOL. XXV DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., WEDNESDAY, DEC. 1, 1937 NO. 16

Mark Bills To Present Concert of Folk Songs

Famed Baritone Will Give Program in Chambers Friday Evening

Mark Bills, a baritone soloist of world-wide fame, will present a concert in Chambers’ Auditorium on Friday night at 8 P.M., singing a group of old English and German songs with semi-classical numbers for encores. Mr. Bills, a graduate of DePauw University (Greencastle, Ind.) and of the University of Michigan School of Music, took his graduate work in the University of Michigan and in the University of Illinois Schools of Education. In his undergraduate days, he was a three-letter man, and was selected for all-state teams in basketball and baseball. For quite a while he was director and athletic coach of all sports in Central and N. S. High Schools of Fort Wayne, Ind. But during his entire strenuous athletic career, he found time to keep up his music in some way.

Began Career In Chautauqua

When he was 17, he became a member of the Chautauqua Concert Company, where he gained some experience and training singing. Mark Bills, well-known baritone, will appear in a free concert here Friday night, under the auspices of the Department of Music. This will be the first of this season’s Concert Series.—(Courtesy The Charlotte Observer). He resigned from all athletic work and made singing his profession. Mr. Bills is very fond of fishing and hunting, but he enjoys his friends more than any of his hobbies.

Mr. Bills comes to us highly recommended and is certain to present a program highly enjoyable.

Winter Concert Series

Friday night marks the beginning of a series of four concerts. These will take place from time to time throughout the year. They are open to all students and to the public free of charge. It is hoped that they may not only be a source of pleasure to all lovers of music, but that they may have an educational value in the field of music.

Military Fraternity Holds Tap Day Ceremony at Parade

Seven seniors were tapped by Scabbard and Blade, national honorary military fraternity, at the parade on Monday afternoon, Nov. 29. The students tapped at the parade were Robert H. Theiling, Jr., Fred W. Dennis, Alexander T. McLenny, Charles Garnier, William T. Manson, Jr., William O. Cooke. Scabbard and Blade was founded at the University of Wisconsin, in 1904, by the senior officers of the university cadet corps. The Davidson chapter, known as “B” Company, was established in 1923. Character, leadership, efficiency, and knowledge of military tactics are necessary requirements for membership.

Last spring fifteen men were taken into the fraternity and, with the addition of the seven who were tapped on Monday, the total membership will now be 23. In addition, there are several honorary members. One of the most important purposes of the chapter has been to...

Gamma Sigma Epsilon Has National Convention

Representatives of eleven chapters met in Raleigh on November 29 and 30, for the national convention of Gamma Sigma Epsilon, national chemistry fraternity. Hosts at the convention were Wake Forest and N.C. State. After registration Sunday afternoon, a smoker was held at the State College Y.M.C.A., while Major K.G. Athaus, of State, entertained the group with motion pictures of Hawaii and Fort McClellan. Col. J.W. Harrelson officially welcomed the assembly at a business meeting Monday morning, presided over by Dr. J.P. Montgomery of Alabama, national president of the society. After luncheon, a lengthy afternoon session was held. The day in Raleigh was closed by a banquet at the Carolina Hotel, where the convention was addressed by Dr. Mack of the University of North Carolina.

Dr. Perlzweig Will Speak Here Dec. 1

Davidson College has announced that Dr. Perlzweig, professor of biochemistry in the University of London, will speak at 11:45 next Monday morning in the auditorium. His lecture, which is sponsored by the University Lecture Committee, is open to the public. Dr. Perlzweig will discuss the relation of chemistry to medicine and will point out various useful courses to be taken in preparation for a medical career.

Famous Illustrator Contracted For Work

The editor of the Quips and Cranks, Jim Dorsett, has just announced that the annual will have as its illustrator this year, George Ade, internationally known artist. During his undergraduate days, he was a member of Sigma Chi. Mr. Ade was formerly the illustrator for the New Yorker, and for a period of time his works were shown in the Louvre in Paris. He is considered by many critics to be the foremost illustrator in the United States, and the honors that...

Motion Pictures of Missionary Work Shown

The Student Volunteers of the college, under the direction of Charles Bixler, president, and with the co-operation of the Y.M.C.A. and the Young People’s League of the Presbyterian Church, sponsored a special program Sunday night in place of the Young People’s meeting. The program featured a missionary motion picture entitled “Our Century of Progress.” This picture represented the work done by the Foreign Missions Board of the Presbyterian Church of the U.S. The picture was introduced on the...

Professor Calvin B. Hoover to Speak at Chapel Monday Morning

Professor Calvin B. Hoover will speak at 11:45 next Monday morning on “Ten Years of Soviet Power.” In the evening, he will make an address at the Phi Beta Kappa banquet on “Dictators and Democracies.” Professor Hoover is exceptionally well qualified to speak on the recent problems and tendencies of the European totalitarian states, having spent 1929-30 studying the Soviet scheme in Russia on a Social Science Research Council fellowship and has since spent some time in Germany studying conditions under the Nazi regime. His “Economic Life of Soviet Russia” (1931) and “Germany Enters the Third Reich” (1933) have been widely read and discussed; he is regarded as an American authority on the present dictator states of Europe.Screened by Dr. Speer, senior secretary, the session covered various topics. Dr. Speer, with any pre-medical student, has certainly followed him and deserves this ranking. His specialty is architectural sketches, and he may visit the campus later on in the year to picture the Davidson campus as it really is.

Alpha Epsilon Delta, the pre-medical society, held its regular meeting last Wednesday and issued bids to the following men: Doug Neal, Bill Bradburn, Henry Cutchin, Holmes Hansel, and Tom Daniel. These new men are to be initiated later this week.

The North Carolina Collegiate Press Association has been broadcasting every Monday from 7 to 7:15, reporting on happenings from all the campuses in the State, oddities of campus life, and editorial comments from different school newspapers. The program is called "The Collegiate Column of the Air."

The Wildcats put up a good fight Thursday in Charlotte, but eleven of them weren't quite good enough to lick the twelve men against whom they were playing. The referee who called that game was, no doubt, trying to do his best. The score was Davidson 7, Wake Forest 6, Referee 13.

Several interesting trips are being arranged for the members, including visits to medical schools of Duke and Carolina, where the members will have an opportunity to see the newest work in medical research.

Dr. Howard Higgins, from Emerson University in Boston, Mass., addressed a large crowd in Chambers Auditorium on "Spiritualism and Mediums" last Monday night. He told a story concerning the death of his friend, news of which had been brought to him by means of mental telepathy just as the accident occurred. He then performed strange feats, such as sight by means of the hands and defying the law of gravity. At the conclusion of his act, he revealed that his performance was a complete fake, using the same methods as spiritualists.

On Monday afternoon at the drill period, Lieutenant Sam Lowe disobeyed his superior officer, First Lieutenant Hy L. McFadyen, and assaulted him with a saber. For this offense, he will be tried by the "Mock Court Martial Board of the R.O.T.C. Department" on December 6th. The court martial will follow strict military procedure, and the defense will be led by Capt. J. V. Wilson, while the prosecution will be led by Lieut. Henry Harkey.

Professor Calvin B. Hoover from Duke University has accepted an invitation to speak at the Phi Beta Kappa Senior initiation banquet here next week.

Friday night will mark the opening of Fall Frolics, Davidson’s newest dance set, featuring Jimmy Fuller and his University of North Carolina band at the Charlotte Armory-Auditorium. The set will consist of three dances: a formal dance on Friday night, a tea dance on Saturday afternoon, and another dance on Saturday night. Decorations will be in an all-white motif, and Pan-Hellenic sponsors have been announced.

Davidson men Arrowsmith and Barrow attended the National Interfraternity Conference in New York last week. They returned with souvenirs and ideas on fraternity problems.

Professor O. J. Thies of the Department of Chemistry was elected Worthy Grand Alchemist, national President of Gamma Sigma Epsilon, at the national convention in Raleigh yesterday.

The following six men were named to the Varsity Debating team in their annual tryouts last night: Haywood Hill, Dick Kenyon, Bill Kiesewetter, John Sherrard, Rice, and Scott. Three alternates selected are Joe Calvin, Bob Ramsay, and Locke White.