Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, NOV. 24, 1937.

The Davidsonian
Founded By the Class of 1915
1937 Member 1938
Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year.

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
New York, N.Y.
420 MADISON AVE. CHICAGO BOSTON LOS ANGELES SAN FRANCISCO

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879.

DICK VOWLES - Editor-in-Chief
CHARLES MOORE - Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
Manager
Manager
Manager
Manager
Manager
Manager
Advertising Manager
Circulation Manager
Circulation Manager
Asst. Business Manager

To lose God is to leave everything without meaning or reason, to have no proportion of things, to drop out all standards, and to reduce men and affairs to chaos.—Chancellor James R. Day.

We express our sincerest sympathies to Dr. G. R. Vowles in the recent death of his father.

Thanksgiving...
“Christmas comes but once a year,” they say. And to the average complacent human being, so does Thanksgiving. Thanksgiving is a fine day and has a fine ideal and purpose behind it. It should call for a renewed spirit and relationship with the Creator and the “giver of all good and perfect gifts.” But more than that, it should take the soul of a man from his own little self-satisfied existence and place it higher in the scheme of things. As soon as Thanksgiving Day is over, the person has nothing for which to be thankful for some three hundred and sixty-odd days. Is that your attitude?

Athletic Situation...
The present athletic set-up at Davidson College has been good and has seemingly worked well, but this year rumors of alumni dissatisfaction, remarks from friends of the college, and murmurings from the student body seem to indicate some disagreement with the present athletic situation. This is the first year in many a long day that football has been so unsuccessful, discounting all moral victories. Scattered opinions have it that we just will not rank in baseball or basketball. We have no concrete knowledge as to the latter. However, something is undoubtedly wrong. There seems to be little hope on the future football horizon. Now just what is there to do about this football situation since this sport is the most immediate problem? The fact remains that unless we can offer some inducement to high school players, we cannot hope to compete with many of the colleges we now play. According to reports, Duke already desires to drop us from her schedule. Do we wish to drop from the Big Five to a smaller conference group and discontinue meeting many teams on our present schedule? No. Do we wish to drop inter-collegiate athletics entirely and play only intramurally? Hardly. Then all there is left is to offer some inducement to prospects. I do not believe some colleges have done so. We are not in favor of subsidization of players in the usual sense of the word—in cases where the player never attends a class or “cracks” a book. Music scholarships are given to music scholars to further their interests in music and to aid the College musical department. Why should not football men of ability be offered scholarships to develop their football ability at Davidson and to put the College on its feet in athletic circles? In our minds, this is not subsidization but a logical and concrete system for improving a situation that is steadily going from bad to worse.

The renewed activity of the International Relations Club which seems to be in evidence called back a rather derogatory editorial concerning that organization's inactivity. It is gratifying to see such a worthwhile group DO something. Now of all times student opinion should be aroused from a coma existent on the average cloistered college and turned toward world affairs. Despite the many criticisms made of the campus, honorary fraternity system at Davidson and the lack of any need for such an abundance of honorary organizations, we have always felt there is a need for a society with the primary purpose of discussing world affairs. The I.R.C. may have been dormant, but it is groups of this sort that the Honorary Council and black eye. However, it seems that an awakening has taken place and the I.R.C. is once more regaining its feet. May this renewed activity continue.

Paragraphies...
We wish at this time to thank The Charlotte Observer and The Charlotte News for their willingness to let The Davidsonian use their cuts gratis. The average college paper runs only a fraction of the number of cuts The Davidsonian does and this is due to the inability of those schools to get hold of the cuts. However, we are lucky to have such close and friendly journalistic neighbors. May good feeling always exist between our paper and the journals of the Queen City.

We feel that a good bit of explanation will be necessary before the plan passed by the student body regarding the drink control can be adequately carried out. Perhaps student and faculty opinions differ as to just what “drinking” constitutes. These distinctions in the minds of the students should be explained before the enactment of the system.

Perhaps you will groan when you see these three words—"Patronize Our Advertisers,” but we feel thoroughly justified in saying just that. After all, it is the advertisers who help make possible The Davidsonian. Whether you believe it or not, you read a great many of the advertisements, perhaps more of them than news stories. Why not then aid your paper indirectly and those who support the school, by giving them your trade?

With The Staff
This is perhaps the most glorious season of the year to college students. All are keyed to the highest tempo in football spirit. Fall is rapidly approaching an end. There is, perhaps, too much spirit. I mean that there is so much enthusiasm in the sport that usually one or two of the players are in the infirmary when the game is over. It is surprising to see that the majority of injuries come from inter-fraternity competition. This is in no way intentional on anyone’s part, but it seems to happen quite regularly. It is now classed as just another accident, but continuing at the present rate it is commanding peculiar attention. We scoff at the idea of touch football being rough. But this is easily explained when it is pointed out that when two men run together that have no protective equipment, injuries are a result. Are we going to let these accidents continue year in and year out? Shall we forever see our friends hobbling around on canes and crutches? It is not too late in the year to bring up this matter. It would not be necessary to end this particular sport in our inter-fraternity competition. But I do think something can be done to remedy this irregularity. Possibly a committee could be chosen to study the matter and draw up certain rules and regulations that would cut down this large number of casualties. If this plan is not good, certainly others can be advanced. Competition in all sports is one of the many advantages of fraternity life. Frequent injuries jeopardize the standing of football in this sports schedule, and if it is allowed to continue, someone will have to act on the matter. I dare say that, if worst comes to worst, it may have to be withdrawn from the schedule of fraternity contests.
—Earle Austin, '40.

Campus in Cartoon
Editor of the INDEPENDENT FOR 24 YEARS
A CONSISTENT WORKER FOR INTERNATIONAL PEACE
HAMILTON HOLT - PRESIDENT OF ROLLINS COLLEGE, INAUGURATED THE CONFERENCE PLAN OF STUDY WHICH ABOLISHED THE LECTURE-QUIZ-RECITATION SYSTEM—“PLACING SOCRATES ON AN EIGHT-HOUR DAY”

Letters to the Editor
King For A Day
By CHUBBY KING

With no football game this past weekend, stooges scattered to the winds and found exactly nothing—which does not bother me at all as this column consists of exactly nothing, also which is inevitable considering its source of information which is exactly nothing, which incidentally is you guys. So realizing the inadequacy of stooges, King himself picked up his roots and left the campus, headed northward, with eyes ogled searching for the truth. Considering recent developments, maybe I ought to have gone to Charlotte and attended the father of an exhibit of firearms and photographs of famous criminals plus an admonishment to Davidson students to stick close to the narrow path or else. For those who do not believe they will be able to get to Charlotte for this, Wally Tomlinson and Mark Lillard, both of whom have made extensive study of the Dillingers, will gladly furnish you with the content of the lecture—just drop by.

Meant to give a short dissertation upon love here but after a lengthy conversation with two gentlemen...

STUDENT BELIEVES COUNCIL, MORAL WEAKENED...
Dear Editor:
The Student Council has enjoyed for many years the whole-hearted support of the student body and the complete confidence of the faculty and administration. But, in my opinion, its integrity is being greatly endangered by the failure to resign of certain of its members who were involved—however slightly—in the disagreeable circumstances of two weeks ago. How can a man, who unblushingly supports an organization which approves of drinking, sit in judgment and be instrumental in trying and shipping another man for the same offense? More than that, how can a man use his influence to have a club associate reinstated when at the same time he is honor bound to report and prosecute other men...guilty of the same offense? I firmly believe that the Davidson student body is whole-heartedly opposed to drinking. I further believe that the student body is entitled to have its students, who as only men, can be depended upon to support in private life what they profess in public.

Sincerely,
DAVIDSON STUDENT

Around Washington
By Marvin Cox (A.C. PL Correspondent)

Young Americans both in and out of college are in bad shape, according to the American Council on Education, which made a report to the Commission on “How Fare American Youth?” The basis of this doleful view is official state, federal, and municipal surveys published in fifteen states. Among other things, the report reveals: that young people constitute about 33 percent of the total unemployed; that workers between the ages of 16 and 24, in cities, usually receive only about $15 a week salary; and that one-eighth of the first admissions to state hospitals for the insane in 1933 were between the ages of 15 and 24. There are many other gloomy facts about youth contained in this report. Newton D. Baker is chairman and Owen D. Homer is vice chairman of the Commission.

Football ticket scalpers are going to have to split their profits with Uncle Sam. Or at least some of the proceeds of their exorbitant prices will go into the Federal treasury as a part of the tax on admissions. If a pair of $3.30 tickets, for example, sell for $25, Uncle Sam will collect his percentage on the entire amount. Instead of getting 60 cents, he will collect $2.50. Football ticket taxes are a lucrative source of Federal revenue, even though a number of state institutions have gone to court to protest the payment of the football levy.

STUDENTS APPROVE

The board of students would probably be expelled from school. Jack Lafferty and Leonard Fort expressed themselves heartily in favor of the proposed supervision plan, pointing it out as the only possible means to retain dances. Torrey McLean favored the committee plan, but Pete McKnight spoke in strong opposition, voicing the opinion that he could not see in this idea a completely organized committee since it lacked power to pass any judgment. It would function under the supervision of the faculty, who would alone have the power to pass judgment. Bill Nicholson emphasized the fact that Davidson is renowned for such a small amount of drinking and implored the students to approve this measure, since the social life of Davidson is at stake. Fielding Clark made a motion that the discussion be closed, and the plan be voted upon by secret ballot. This motion was seconded, and the student body voted.

LINGUISTIC PROFESSORS
(Continued from Page 1)

Emile A. Buylsteker, Brenau College, on “Observations on Recent Changes in Western Europe;” and Sturgis E. Leavitt, University of North Carolina, on “Education For a Changing World.” Winthrop College will be host to the delegates at an informal tea in Johnson Hall from 4 to 6 o'clock. After the tea, a subscription dinner will be given Friday night at 7:30 at the Andrew Jackson Hotel. Dr. Hampton Jarrell will give the address of welcome, and Dr. Sturgis E. Leavitt will give the response. On Saturday morning, the meeting will be divided into sections preceding a general business session, which will conclude the meeting. Two hundred persons are expected to attend this conference.

McKEE SPEAKS
(Continued from Page 1)

Wears Native Costumes

For the first two groups of songs, Mme. McKee appeared in a French provincial costume consisting of a bright checked skirt, a white satin blouse with flowing sleeves, and a jumper style bonnet. During the last group, she wore a white flowered evening dress of the 18th century with a large flowing skirt. She carried a white fan and wore red flowers in her hair. After the performance, Le Cercle Francais held a reception in honor of Mme. McKee in the faculty room.

Councilmen are going to have to split their profits with Uncle Sam. Or at least some of the proceeds of their exorbitant prices will go into the Federal treasury as a part of the tax on admissions. If a pair of $3.30 tickets, for example, sell for $25, Uncle Sam will collect his percentage on the entire amount. Instead of getting 60 cents, he will collect $2.50. Football ticket taxes are a lucrative source of Federal revenue, even though a number of state institutions have gone to court to protest the payment of the football levy.

Gilbert Palmer and one named Robert Able, who because of the constancy of their conduct in this respect, I recognize as authorities. I realized the shallowness of my own preconceived ideas, forsook them immediately, and jotted down words of wisdom as they dropped from the mouths of my reformers. Identical with a sledgehammer striking a person unawares and leaving him in a dazed condition—which is very pleasant and also offers an excellent excuse for flunking courses and cutting classes (and of course you know this excuse is acceptable at the Dean’s office). The true stuff also instills a spirit of sacrifice—even to the extent of skinning up knees as you jump from a fast-moving train after saying farewell to a departing love.

Night Owl very crowded Monday morning as the ‘C’ returned to campus. Tom Abbott after a weekend at another college for women, studying seriously during bus stops... Dennis silent after, I think, exhortation of Fred upon the evils of formal dances at ladies’ schools... Billie Crooks doomed to travel the entire trip with a companion who thought the sixth grade was enough education and who emitted a disagreeable odor. Deaf and dumb man hit prosperity when he accosted generous Davidson women who just loosened the purse strings. Ray Pittman brought remembrances of a certain Downey when he made a sixteen-minute telephone call to Converse—ah, capitalistic age, $2.60... Question of the week: Toby Conyers boards streetcar with suspenders showing beneath his coat... Mister Bill Boyd of Davidson and Columbia cornered by a fair one from the latter city—playing both ends of the deck... Dorsett, Kiesewetter, and Patterson to dance and wedding... Bosco Marion, Tom McLean, and Charles Hines from Queens to party at the McDevett’s... Of interest to Voguers, Esquirer’s etc. Messieurs Holt and Barrow, Type A male models, will be free on Mondays for any commercial posing work... Palmer to Spartanburg, returning late Monday with a life-size picture of a beautiful woman... Tom Glenn renamed “Octopus”—all arms and no principles.

ROCK HILL—AI Cates and Archey Torrey to Winthrop and to opera—German influence very apparent... Sam Spencer and Sam Newell to steak fry on Catawba River with charms... Bid Ivy also to Rock Hill but had not returned at the time of this writing.

Soliloquy intended mainly for the benefit of my roommate who loves order and for those unfortunates numbered among my friends who wear size 16 shirts—I hereby vow to have my laundry taken down tomorrow—for the second time this semester.

Take It Easy
By Rut Miller

The first Christmas song, “Santa Claus is Coming to Town,” heard on the radio this year. The first snow of the year (for this section) reported by a farmer on Statesville road this last Saturday night. The first weekend of the school year without a varsity football game. The first Christmas card salesman knocking at the door the other night. (I finally gave in too). The first open fire at the fraternity house.

INTELLIGENT TEST

Try to describe a spiral stairway or an accordion without using your hands.

STRAY SHOTS... They have passed a new law in Greenville, North Carolina. There shall be no more lynching of negroes. Instead, they give them an Essex and let them worry themselves to death. Wow... Women endure pain more than men, as any doctor or shoe dealer will tell you—Poor Oscar has nothing to do now to keep him busy since the installation of the new bell ringer. A movement to retire Oscar on a pension is under way. A proposed name for the coming set of dances, “Water-Wagon Week-End.” Just when is Thanksgiving? The boarding houses in town are having their Thanksgiving Day dinners on every day in the week except on Thanksgiving Day itself. But no matter when it comes, it will most surely be welcomed and devoured. One boarding house voted for steaks instead of turkey. That's absolutely unheard of. After all, the turkey is what makes the dinner on that day what it is.

THUMB NAIL SKETCH... A Junior this time, and the first Junior to be included in this series of thumb nail sketches. First of all, he rooms with the same boy he has roomed with for three years. They are both in the band, with the one in question playing the glockenspiel like an old master. He has also been seen playing the piano and has appeared numerous times seated at the console of the mighty organ in chapel. A very friendly fellow who greets all with a smile, a jerk of the hand, and a ‘hello there.’ He is small but do not let his size fool you, for he can make sounds of monstrous proportions come out of most any musical instrument, and he does. His hall-mates affectionately call him Donald Duck.

YOU KNOW IT

There are two ways a pretty woman can twist a man around her finger—and she knows both of them.

A college education within prison walls appears in prospect for a 19-year-old prisoner at Walla Walla, Wash., who became a life-term convict at the age of 12. Arrangements will probably be made to bring college studies to the youth, who is eager to get a square deal.

People who are eager to give a square deal usually get a square deal.

Visit KING’S SODA & GRILL
FOUNTAIN SERVICE
SANDWICHES - LUNCHES
REGULAR DINNERS
Popular Brands of Cigarettes 12c (Camels, Luckies, Old Golds, Chesterfields, Raleigh, Piedmont)
Free Telephone
Corner 4th & S. Tryon St.