Page Six THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, MAY 5, 1937

Contracts Awarded By Publications Board

Standard Printing Company To Publish Davidsonian

At a recent meeting of the new Publications Board, contracts for the printing of the various publications were awarded. “The
Davidsonian” will remain in the hands of the Standard Printing Company of Charlotte for the coming year. This firm has
printed “The Davidsonian” for the past several years.

Contracts for the publishing of “Scripts ‘n’ Pranks” were awarded to the Herald Press, also of Charlotte. The Herald Press
is rather new, but recommendations from the retiring board proved satisfactory to the firm. The Craftsman Printing Company has held
the contract for the magazine for the past year. The contract for the printing of the Quips and Cranks has
not yet been settled, but the Charlotte Engraving Company will continue to handle the engraving.

NEW MANAGERS OF (Continued from Page 1)

DORMS OPENED (Continued from Page 1)

The committee which organized the open house included: Cage Brewer, Frank Brown, Major Crook, I. C. Crowell, Edwards, Lawrence Hill,
Lafferty, Harry McGlaughlin, Moseley, and Dave.

ILLUSTRATED SHOW (Continued from Page 5)

These films were provided by the United States Bureau of Mines of Minnesota.

STUDENT LETTERS (Continued from Page 5)

I did not know that the Post Office was established sometime in 1860.

DR. C. E. RAYNAL DELIVERS (Continued from Page 3)

The final great security is the Lord himself. Dr. Raynal closed the mention of the unity of this psalm in
the heart. God has given us great securities, and we shall meet with triumph if we trust in them.

WILDCAT NETMEN IN (Continued from Page 4)

Cardell and Radcliffe (W&L) defeated Caldwell and Kenney 5-7, 6-1, 6-4. Clements and Reynolds (W&L) defeated Boggs and Frampton 5-7,
6-2. Woodward and Reinhardt (D) defeated Fischel and Middleburg 7-5, 6-3.

DRY GOODS GROCERIES RADIO SUPPLIES HARDWARE

M. H. GOODRUM & CO. Zenith & RCA Radios

Town Tattle

The Grammar School of Davidson closed with a chapel ceremony. The High School has another week before closing.

The Chelemite Club met on Friday afternoon at the home of Mrs. E. J. Erwin. Mrs. W. W. Wood gave
a very interesting paper on the amusements of the Old South.

Lieut. James R. Withers has returned home after a six-month term in the CCC camps of South Carolina.

The Book-Lovers Club met on Friday afternoon at the home of Mrs. G. B. Watts. Mr. Thane McDonald had charge
of the program, which was entitled “Modern Music and Musicians.”

Mrs. W. Martin visited her son last weekend. Dr. Martin is president-emeritus of Davidson College and is now residing in
Greensboro.

Agnes Brown, F. L. Lingle, W. L. Lingle, and E. F. Lingle attended May Day at Salem College in Winston-Salem
last weekend.

Miss Porter Vinson of Virginia visited in Davidson over the weekend.

The Twentieth Century Club met last Friday afternoon at the home of Mrs. W. McGill. Mrs. McGill gave a paper
on Dickens.

Mrs. C. K. Cumming returned from the Charlotte Sanatorium after a short stay. Miss Speight Gurley has returned home after
an operation.

A mayor for the Town of Davidson is to be chosen on Tuesday, May 4.

ODK HOLDS INITIATION (Continued from Page 1)

He was at once satirical and witty. He admitted at the outset of his speech that he would undoubtedly not
change the ideas of those present at the banquet. His address was met with much applause, and his conclusion was
the subject of much discussion. The initiation and banquet were directed by a committee consisting of Walt Dickson, Carl Carlson,
Jim Johnston, Ed Armfield, and Jack Branch.

The athletic revenue of the University of Michigan for the past 15 years amounts to $7,032,676.43.

PROFESSORS WILL SCATTER DURING SUMMER VACATION (Continued from Page 5)

Dr. and Mrs. Hood plan to stop in New England for a short time.

To Teach

G. R. Vowles and C. Brown will teach at the University of North Carolina summer school. Dr. Vowles will serve
in his usual capacity as an instructor of German, and Dr. Brown will teach a course in “Money.” Before going,
Dr. Vowles and his family will drive out to their summer cottage in Minnesota.

Camp Carolina

J. P. Williams will leave in June to be present at the opening of Camp Carolina, near Brevard, N. C.,
where he will serve on the staff. After teaching in the Davidson summer school, C. M. Richards plans to take
his family and go to Montreat, N. C., for the remainder of the summer.

To Teach at Duke University

After the first term of the Montreat graduate school, P. H. Gwynn will go to Montreat to deliver a series
of lectures. From Montreat, he will go to Haverford College to attend the Hazen Conferences on Student Counseling. After this,
Dr. Gwynn will attend the Week-of-Work of the National Council on Religion and Higher Education at Hightstown, N. J.

DAVIDSON’S DANCE SEASON (Continued from Page 1)

In addition, there will be two tea dances: on Friday, from five to six o'clock, and on Saturday, from four-thirty
to six. The Ball will be from eight-thirty to twelve on Saturday night.

Pan-Hellenic sponsors will be: Miss Jane Alston Saunders, Campbellsville, Ky., with Bob Johnston, Beta Theta Pi; Miss Jane Simmons, Staunton,
Va., with Ken Crowell, Kappa Alpha; Miss Elizabeth Knorr, Charlotte, with Cubby Gammon, Pi Kappa Alpha; Miss Mickey Mason, Charlotte,
with Billy Hill, Kappa Sigma; Miss Dorothy DeWeese, Washington, with Dunny Covington, Pi Kappa Phi; Miss Rebecca McRee, Trenton, Penn.,
with Russell Patterson, Phi Gamma Delta; and Miss Evelyn McCarty, Ft. Pierce, Fla., with Turner Purner, Phi Delta Theta.Sigma Silon.
Members of the Davidson faculty will act as chaperones.

FURMAN FROSH
(Continued from Page 4)
6"; shot put, Wofford (1), Miller (D), and Link (F), distance 38’ 9 1-4"; discus, Miller (D), Dorman (F), and
Wofford (F), distance 104’ 9"; and javelin, Dorman (F), King (F), and Wofford (F), distance 155' 7 1/2’.

SCIENCE FRATERNITIES
(Continued from Page 3)
Soap bubbles, which floated around without bursting. Then he poured some of the chemical out on three lighted candles, which
immediately went out. Last on the program was a demonstration of phosphine by Lafferty and Bill Link. Phosphine was blown
in a jar of water, and resulted in bubbles which burst with a flame when contacted with air. After the
flame came a smoke ring, which floated to the top of the room.

Davidson Theatre
Thursday, May 6
MYSTERIOUS CROSSING—An exciting murder mystery.
Friday, May 7
BREEZING HOME—A story of track and the race.
Saturday, May 8 & 9
FLYING HOSTESS—A tense drama of the air with Judith Barrett, William Gargan, Tala Birell, and Cesar Romero. A love story
of a girl whose kisses were packed with dynamite.
Mon.-Tues. May 10-11
SHE’S DANGEROUS—James Dunn and Jean Rogers with Binnie Barnes, William Gargan, and Wendie Barrie.
Wednesday, May 12
MAKE WAY FOR TOMORROW—An interesting picture of city life.

Beta Theta Pi
Sellars Winn, McClintock, and Charlie Pegram returned from the golf trip. During the week, Brother Bob Burlington, John Gales, and
Dave Atwater, '36, visited the chapter. The chapter had a feed Sunday night.

Pi Kappa Alpha
The chapter celebrated its annual May Frolics this weekend with a formal dance Friday night in Charlotte. Chubby King and
his orchestra played for the formal. Following the dance, there was a hayride and river party on Saturday night. John
Horton went home to Albemarle for the weekend. Brothers Billy Moore, ’36, and Billy Archer, '36, were visitors of the
chapter. Mr. and Mrs. Thane McDonald and Mr. and Mrs. Frank Anders were chaperones for the Friday night dance.

Kappa Alpha
The chapter had its annual spring house party at Roaring Gap this weekend. Mr. and Mrs. Frontis Johnston and Mr.
and Mrs. Paul McGarity were chaperones. Over twenty-eight girls were guests of the chapter at the party. Brother Ross Gladden
went to Chester, S.C. Gib Smith went to the May festivities at Sweetbriar. Willard Dixon visited Hickory. Dick Winters went
to Gainesville. Brother John Anderson returned from New York.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon
Brothers Willingham, Cauble, and Slofn went to Duke for the annual S.A.E. party of the Duke chapter. Brothers Clark and
Ma went to Fayetteville. Bill Miller went to Winthrop May Day. Brothers Pharr, Lattimer, and Robinson went to Columbia. Jim
Thomas went home. Charlie Fuller and Bill French went to Lumberton. The Bowery Ball is greatly anticipated by the Greeks.
Saturday night will be the scene of outlandish costumes and the clash of sabers.

Kappa Sigma
Billy Hill, George Norfleet, and Howell went to May Day and dance. Brother Sours went to the Junior-Senior prom at
Blacksburg. Warren Gaw, Wade Boggs, Boo Walker, and Haywood Hill went to a Y.M.C.A. at Montreat. Yates spent the weekend
in Greensboro. On Sunday night, the regular weekly feed was held.

Pi Kappa Phi
Brothers Billy Masters and Jimmy Biscoe went to Salem for a house party. Ed Glenn and Charlie Ballard were initiated
into the chapter last Thursday night. There was a formal meeting following the initiation. Tom Corbin, Paul Cooper, Dave King,
Jim Wilson, Dunnie Covington, and Dick Towill attended a house party Saturday at Lake Montonia. Bill McLean, Salty Peters, and
Harry Hendrick went to Salem for the May Day and dance. David Colvin and Jim Hill went home. Bid Ivey
went to May Day at Winthrop and Tiger Terry attended the Queens Junior-Senior banquet. Mrs. R. T. Edwards visited the
chapter during the week. The regular weekly feed was held on Sunday night.

Phi Gamma Delta
The chapter held a memorial service for Brother Eloxie Thompson last Thursday. Brothers Elmore, Liipfert, Reid, Baker, Tillotson, and Brewer
went to Salem College for May Day and dance. Arthur Cooke, George Jones, and Rut Miller visited Greensboro. Alumni Brother
Sam Nickey, '34, of Tennessee, visited the chapter during the week. On Sunday night, the regular Sunday night feed was
held.

Phi Delta Theta
During the last week, Hugh Ver was pledged to the chapter. Brother Sam Cothran went to Winthrop for the May
Day program. Albert Price, '36, is visiting the chapter, getting in shape for fall. On Sunday night, the chapter enjoyed
their regular feed. Bill Beatty went to Limestone for the Junior-Senior banquet. Brother Arthur attended a dance at Washington and
Lee. The tennis team were guests of the chapter at the feed.

Sigma Phi Epsilon
Dan Iverson and John Doty went to Winthrop for May Day festivities. Henry Lyons made a visit to Salisbury last
Saturday. The chapter is preparing for May Frolics on the weekend following Bowery Ball. Visitors to the chapter this weekend
were: Mr. and Mrs. W. A. Black, Miss Anna Branch Black, Miss Bobbie Brantley, Miss Margaret Schaffer, and Miss Dot
Wright.

OPENING BROADCAST
(Continued from Page 1)
Brigadier General Salisbury of the district. In trying to stand off the British at a ford, he was shot down
by a redcoat and died instantly. His friends buried him at Hopewell Church. Edwards then announced that the program next
time would be the interesting story of the first days of Davidson College, and the rebellion of the planter’s sons
at having to do manual labor. Those who took part in the above sketch were: Prof. F. W. Johnston, Mrs.
Johnston, Tyler Port, Walter Dickson, J. S. Brown, Dr. W. P. Cumming, Dick Vowles, Bill McIlwinen, R. B. Stewart, Loch
Vass, and Henry Mills.

DAVIDSON HAS
(Continued from Page 5)
Progress in many fields; there is an imposing record of public improvements, such as street paving, sewage disposal plant, lighting,
and water-line extension.

PRIVATE DINING ROOMS FOR PARTIES
NEW CAFETERIA

For BOWERY BALL FLOWERS from RATCLIFFE’S
GEO. MATHIS Representatives
LEM KORNEGAY

...the cigarette with refreshing MILDNESS and more pleasing TASTE and AROMA invites you to hear this popular program.
ALL COLUMBIA STATIONS EVERY FRIDAY EVENING AT 7:29 P.M.
