\ f { - lems, WEDNESDAY, NOV. 3, 1937. THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Five Wildcats to Battle Heels 34th Game Davidson
Will Play Old Rival Saturday in Homecoming Game When the Davidson and Carolina elevens trot out on Richardson Field here
next Saturday it will be the 34th time teams from the schools have met each other on the gridiron. Davidson
has won only four of the 33 previous engagements, while four have resulted in scoreless ties.

Relations between the schools started in 1898 when the Tar Heels downed Little Davidson 11-0. Davidson did not gain their
first victory until 1910, when they came back, 6-0. After this victory, Davidson did not win for another decade until
1920. Led by the immortal Gig Shepherd, who scored the lone touchdown on a 25-yard run around end in the
final quarter, the ‘Cats set the Heels back for the second time in history, 7-0.

In 1926, the Wildcats licked the Heels for the third time. The Tar Heels could not stop the ‘Cats, who
were State champions that year, and the ‘Cats came out on top with a 10-0 score. In 1930, the most
recent victory for the ‘Cats, Davidson entered the game as underdogs. The ‘Cats, however, played brilliant defensive football and decidedly
outplayed the Heels to gain a 7-6 victory. Davidson has not won a game since this time.

Results of the games played since 1920 are as follows:
Year N.C. Davidson
1921 14 7
1922 29 6
1923 14 3
1924 6 0
1925 13 0
1926 0 10
1927 27 0
1928 30 7
1929 26 7
1930 6 7
1931 20 0
1932 14 0
1933 6 0
1934 12 0
1935 14 0
1936 26 0

Football Financing Problems Overcome
Johns Hopkins University has solved the football financing problem to the joy of fans and everybody who goes to the
games on passes. There were no ticket-takers at the Johns Hopkins-Washington College game, but all they did was glance at
“guest cards”—cards that cost exactly nothing. These cards were available to all, and each card was good for the “bearer”
and all the owner could play host to his relatives and friends. The card got nothing, just the thanks of
Johns Hopkins, a big, modern U.S. university, to play football without a “gate.” It’s all part of the new Hopkins
plan to “de-emphasize” football, and other sports, on a scale never before attempted by a modern university or college.

A survey taken among 220 co-eds at Oregon State College showed that students with an average “C” spent less time
studying and more time relaxing than the majority of those receiving lower grades. It also indicated that co-eds spend almost
as much time at their dressing tables as they do studying.

Bowling! Billiards!
REX RECREATION
—and—
20th CENTURY BOWLING
AIR-CONDITIONED YEAR ROUND
FREE TELEPHONE

Great Kicker
Tom Burnette, Carolina’s ace kicker, is one reason for the remarkable success of the Tar Heels this season. Burnette is
an all-round performer, passing, punting, and running with the ball, besides being a great defensive player. He won great praise
for his fine work in the Fordham game.

Freshmen Drop Decision To Lees-McRae Harriers
The Freshman cross country team opened its season last Saturday when they met the harriers from Lees-McRae Junior College here,
and lost a very close meet 20-29. Davidson has met the Lees-McRae team for the last three years and has
beaten them decisively every time until this year when they were barely able to eke out a victory.

Nick Schiltz of Davidson came in first in the amazing time of 10:48 for the two miles. Gregg of Lees-McRae
pushed Schiltz hard until they hit the final stretch. The winner of the cake race finished third, followed by Porter,
Taylor, and McDonald, all of Lees-McRae. Norris Erb and Bill Lemmon finished seventh and eighth respectively. Lemmon ran a remarkable
race because after about running a half-mile his shoe string became untied but undaunted he caught up with the back
men and passed eight of them to finish where he did. Schiltz and Gregg battled during the whole race for
supremacy, one having the lead for a while then the other going ahead. They set a terrifically fast pace, but
Schiltz had the most stamina at the finish, and he finished the course in a sprint.

CAT HARRIERS TAKE FIRST
(Continued from Page 4)
It was a novel experience, according to the “Cats,” for the teammates had to call out numbers quite often to
get their relative positions in the dark. Walker and Woodward entered the stadium together, but Auburn's Turner challenged on the
lap around the track to take second. Parcell was barely edged out of number four place by another Auburn man.

This Friday the Wildcats renew their rivalry with the University of North Carolina as the two undefeated teams line up
at Chapel Hill for a five-mile race, the last before the Southern Conference meet on November 20. Walker, Woodward, and
Parcell will be pitted against Hendrix, Jones, Hall, and Hardy, the formidable Carolina quartet.

Davidson has defeated Duke, N.C. State, Guilford, Mercer, and Auburn this fall, while Carolina has Washington and Lee, Navy, Maryland,
Duke, and N.C. State to their credit. Carolina and Davidson will face each other two weeks later in the conference
meet.

Placings for the first thirteen men were as follows:
1. Walker (D)
2. Turner (A)
3. Woodward (D)
4. Gresham (A)
5. Parcell (D)
6. Kellogge (D)
7. Roberts (A)
8. Telford (D)
9. Marshall (M)
10. Gammon (D)
11. Lowrance (M)
12. Morgan (A)
13. Wilson (D)

John L. Lewis, Jr., assured the registrar at Princeton University, where he is a freshman, that his father is an
“executive.” He has enrolled as a candidate for the degree of bachelor of science.

Complete Home Furnishers
308 South Tryon Street
Charlotte, N. C.

“You'll Find Warmth and Friendliness At Bridges”

Spencer Bros.
Every Student Is Cordially Invited

CITY CAFE & DINING ROOM
“WHERE FRIENDS MEET TO EAT”
Mooresville, N. C.

Rea Tenney Is Victor in Fall Netters’ Fray
Tenney Wins in Straight Sets Playing Best Tennis of His Career
Rea Tenney, Sophomore tennis sensation, defeated Bronston Kenney, seeded number one and pre-tourney favorite, in straight sets last Friday.to capture
the annual fall tennis tournament, winning in straight sets, 6-1, 6-1, 6-0. The finals Friday found the brilliant Tenney in
top form, and Kenney, who was having trouble with his game, was simply unable to cope with Tenney’s hard drives
and accurate placements. Tenney’s smooth forehand was working with flawless perfection and time after time he scored on brilliant cross-court
drives which were out of reach of the usually unpassable Kenney. Tenney, who is an Atlanta product, played the number
one position on the Freshman team all last year, while Kenney was a member of last year’s varsity, playing the
number one post part of the season. Tenney advanced to the finals with an impressive win over Harry Frampton, another
member of last year’s team and finalist in the spring tournament last year, winning in four sets, 6-4, 4-6, 6-4,
6-1. Kenney also advanced over a member of last year’s varsity, Jimmy Reinhardt, winning in four sets. In spite of
the unfavorable weather conditions that prevailed throughout most of the tourney, the event was marked with some of the best
tennis ever seen on the Hill and an unusual amount of interest. It is hoped that with Kenney, Captain Frampton,
and Reinhardt returning next year, the team, with Tenney, Davidson will enjoy one of the best seasons that she has
ever had on the courts.

Your Film Report Card
By HENRY B. BAKER

(The following film ratings are based upon the reviews of current magazines and the opinions of the columnist. A—Excellent; B—Good;
C—Fair.)

“MADAM X”
Gladys George, John Beal, and Warren William. An ordinary tearjerker which the critics pay for in several reviews. This picture
gets a “B” which seems a little bit too high, but for those who can enjoy a good cry now
and then, it will be fine entertainment. Gladys George plays the part of an erring woman who sinks to the
depths of degradation, becomes involved in a murder charge, and is defended in court by her son.

“FIT FOR A KING”
Joe E. Brown. This picture will probably come closer to rating “B” than the one above although critics give it
a “C.” It has plenty of action, bright dialogue, impressive sets, and Joe’s inimitable humor which adds up to a
funny comedy. Joe is a newspaper reporter assigned to cover an Archduke being trailed by would-be assassins. Naturally...

(Continued Page Eight)

Visit KING’S SODA & GRILL
FOUNTAIN SERVICE
SANDWICHES - LUNCHES
REGULAR DINNERS
Popular Brands of Cigarettes 12c (Camels, Luckies, Old Golds, Chesterfields, Raleigh, Piedmont)
Free Telephone
Corner 4th & S. Tryon St.

DITT - FULLBACK
After missing contests, Art Ditt returned to the N. C. lineup in the Fordham contest two weeks ago to play
a great game. He will be in action against the ‘Cats Saturday.

Soccer Team Opens New Season
Davidson varsity soccer team opened the season by taking the High Point team on the home field. The final result
of the match has not been given. A great deal of interest has been shown in soccer this year and
the team has been looking good in early workouts. Besides the men who played last year, there are a number
of newcomers who have shown up well. Heretofore, the goalie position has been considered the weak point of the team,
but L. C. Vinson has joined and strengthened the team greatly. Eddie Steere, John Chalk, and Joe Kellam are other
new players who stood out in practice. On November the 6th, the team will play the strong Duke Blue Devil
team. There are five more matches scheduled definitely and four tentative. Other teams wrote in trying to get games but
the already full schedule and the lack of time prevented the team from playing any further games. The tentative lineup
for the High Point game was announced by Cothran, manager and coach, as follows:
R. I.—Armstrong
L. I.—Steere
R. W.—McFadyen, G.
L. W.—Wilson, J.
C. H.—Kerr
R. H.—Cothran
L. H.—Harnsberger
R. F.—McFadyen, H.
L. F.—Chalk or Kellam
Goal—Vinson

Don't Forget BOWLING and POOL
In Mooresville

Wildcats Meet Tar Heels in Homecoming Contest
Davidson hopes to show alumni an upset win over the Tar Heels, led by the great Bershak and one of
the finest backfields in the South. Shepard will coach the Davidson cagers. Coach Shepard directs the team with more than
a decade of experience. Laird has been coaching varsity basketball and varsity baseball for the past several seasons. Shepard will
take over the freshman basketball squad this winter. The freshmen usually have a relatively short schedule and this will make
it possible for the popular coach to turn all his attention to baseball as the season approaches. Shepard is a
qualified and active mentor who was at Randolph-Macon last year. His teams there enjoyed unusual success. The entire varsity squad
from last year will be on hand this season and Shepard will have a wealth of material in addition to
the regulars.

FOUR ADVANCE IN GREEK TOURNAMENT
(Continued from Page 4)
In the third round of the Greek tournament, the Pikas defeated the Betas to take a place in the semi-finals.
McClelland starred for the Betas while Durham and Groat paced the Pikas. The combination of Barr and Hogg was too
much for the KAs and they went down before the Kappa Sigs, 18-0. The team figured in all the scoring,
first Barr on a run, then a pass, Hogg to Barr, and then another pass, Barr to Hogg. Two touchdowns
in the first half brought the Phi Gams victory over the SAEs. White, the Gamiers, and Reid combined to put
over the first counter while Gene Ganier returned a punt fifty yards for the second. The SAEs, thinking him tagged,
allowed him to run the last thirty yards unhit. Faison, Harris, and Cauble were best for the losing squad.

PAUL & CRYMES, Inc.
- - Sporting Goods - -
415 South Tryon St.
Charlotte, N. C.

Call Us When You Need Coal, Wood, Ice
... Delivered Same Day...
DAVIDSON ICE & FUEL CO.
PHONE 130

Primed For Carolina Tar Heels
Davidson is primed for the Carolina Tar Heels. The Wildcats are ready to battle the Heels, led by the great
Bershak, from end to end. The Tar Heels are in top form, but the Wildcats hope to give them a
tough contest.

Kappa Sigma
Pres. Brown should set the style in Tuxedoes for Fall. College men should and will wear Fashion Park and C
Dinner Jackets. The Club or Double Breasted, West Line, Full Drape, Double Breasted Peak models.

COLORS...
White

For Your Entire Wardrobe...
Visit MARION DAVIS CO.
205 S. Tryon Street
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
