WEDNESDAY, NOV. 24, 1937. THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Five

Gene McEver Expresses Ideas on Subsidization
Fred Smith Upholds McEver’s Views on Athletic Subsidization

by Chet

Gene McEver, head football coach, accompanied by Chapman, assistant football coach, and Conrad Frederick Smith, went to Charlotte Monday where
McEver made a talk before the Charlotte Association of Manufacturers’ Agents on “Athletic Subsidization.”

“If we go back 50 years,” McEver said, “we find football starting as an intramural sport. The time came when
the teams wanted outside competition. They asked the colleges for appropriations for equipment and they were refused. The alumni of
the colleges donated the money needed, and when coaches were needed, it was again the alumni who provided the money
to pay them. The alumni got hold at the start.

“College alumni want to have winning teams. The alumni have a hold on college football and the colleges can't get
it back. They may never get it back.

“Every football team in the United States is bidding for the public favor. That is all right. But the college
gets all of the boy's athletic ability and the boys get no education. The subsidized football player today does not
graduate. When he is playing football, he is interested in football, not his studies. If the college would force the
boys to work on their studies instead of passing them on their work just so they will be able to
play, then subsidization would be all right.

“The Southern Conference ruling which asks the boy ‘Do you get aid primarily for your athletic ability?’ forces the boy
who is an athlete to lie. The colleges are mostly to blame for this because of all the publicity which
gets out about athletic subsidization. We have to bear in mind that things are not as bad as they are
made out to be.”

Smith’s View

Conrad Frederick Smith supported the statements made by McEver. He said: “I don't favor hiring athletes, but I don’t think
that it is wrong to encourage good athletes to come to Davidson. Colleges are bidding for football players. It is
being done, and it will always be done as long as the public demands a Roman holiday every Saturday. If
the colleges don't provide good football, it will be provided by professional teams; and we would rather see college football.”

Chet Chapman also made a few remarks. The meeting was presided over by Don Cameron, president of the association.

Council Plans Amendments

The Honorary Fraternity Council, at its last meeting on Wednesday night, passed several amendments relating to the regular meetings of
the honorary fraternities on the campus. The main amendment stated in brief that “no honorary fraternity may have a meeting
outside of the regular one without the permission of the president of the council.” The fraternities were also reminded that
the constitution states they must meet at least once a month or be excluded from the list of recognized honorary
fraternities. Last year the local chapter of Eta Sigma Phi failed to meet the necessary requirements for membership and consequently
was dropped from the honorary list. At the meeting of the council, Bill Lawes, president of Eta Sigma Phi, presented
a petition for readmission of that society. This was met with comments of approval and as a result was reinstated.
Their time of meeting was set for the second and fourth Monday in each month. This fraternity is an honorary
society for those who show distinguished scholarship and interest in the study of the Greek and Latin languages.

President Wicker stated that last year the groups who are members had grown lax in the regulations, especially one specifying
that each society must meet twice a month and have a regular program at each meeting. At the next meeting
of the council, the “D” club will be admitted as a regular member. Leonard Fort as president of this club
will be its representative on the Council.

Phi’s and Eu’s Hear Initiates
Literary Societies Induct Several New Men

The regular meeting of the Philanthropic Literary Society was postponed from the night of November 15 to the night of
November 22. This was due to the many reviews scheduled last week. The meeting held last night was an interesting
one with an assorted program. Heading the program was an outline discussion, based upon questions submitted by Dan Walker. This
was followed by two talks, one by Joe Gammon on “The University and School Life in Brazil” and the second,
“Modern Social Relations of the Younger Classes,” by D. H. Rodgers. In addition to these talks, Bob Lewis and Jack
White related some interesting personal experiences. This was part of their initiation and showed hard work. The society reports that
due to the efforts of the membership committee, headed by John Horton, some promising new members have been added. In
a recent meeting, the Philanthropic Literary Society discussed the purchasing of keys for its members, and plans have been made
to carry this out.

Eu Meets

The Eumenean Literary Society met Tuesday night, November 16, in its newly remodeled hall. After the usual formalities, S. R.
Oglesby, Ed Maxwell, and Peyton Philip were initiated. Several applicants for membership read papers or spoke before the meeting. These
were highly enjoyed and approved. Sam Lowe read a sketch of his experiences at R. O. T. C. camp, and
this was followed by a talk by Dave Woodward. Mr. Woodward's talk was entitled “Seven Ways to Win Friends and
Influence People.” He based his talk along lines just the reverse of his title and made it very humorous. Bud
Williamson made an interesting biographical talk. Following these talks the society indulged in a discussion of the entire dance situation.

Dr. Higgins (Continued from Page 1)

The program is divided into two parts. Part 1—Composite seance made up of the best features of leading mediums, in
which are demonstrated spirit forces, spirit visions, writing by invisible hand, the slate and spirit writing, and materialization of a
spirit while the medium is securely bound by members of the audience. Part 2—The expose. Methods of mediums and fortune
tellers are explained. Pictures, demonstrations, of the alleged psychic phenomena, speech and music are blended in an exposal of their
essential quackery. “Among the Spirits” is intended to be more than mere entertainment. It is an excellent discussion of the
psychology of suggestion, in an effort to protect the public against mediums, seers and fortune tellers of all types.

Best Dressed Man (Continued from Page 1)

Carlo had modestly excluded his name from the list, so as to give the other twenty-odd best-dressed boys of the
Charlotte contingent a chance.

Amon the Greeks

Beta Theta Pi—
Ralph Monger spent Saturday afternoon and night in Charlotte. Teeny Lafferty and Youngblood spent the week-end at their homes in
Concord. Chum Horton went to Albemarle. Pledge Brothers McElwee, Shelton and Scott went to Statesville for the week-end. The chapter
was honored by a visit from the Misses Betsy Springer and Brookste Tonger last week-end.

Kappa Alpha—
Brothers Abell and Palmer spent the week-end in Spartanburg while Brother Marion went to his home in Charlotte. Five of
the gang also took off for Charlotte Saturday night for a bit of recreation in Brother Polk Moffett’s car. Besides
Brother Moffett there were Brothers Graham and Gladden, and Pledge Brothers Horton and Gilmer. Pledge Brother Kenney went to Chattanooga
to see the game between Baylor and his alma mater.

Pi Kappa Alpha—
Joe Brinson spent the week-end in High Point. George Coates, Bull Durham, Bob McClellan, Doug McNeal, T. J. Turner, Augie
Spoon, and Tommy Glenn spent the week-end in Spartanburg. Harper Beall spent the week-end in Lenoir. Pledge Norman Stevenson spent
the week-end in Winston-Salem. Pledge Bobby Williams, Charlie Luther, Lee Ogburn, and Dick Kenyon went to Charlotte with the Glee
Club.

Phi Delta Theta—
Jim Dorsett attended a wedding in Salisbury the past week-end. Lawrence Reid went home to Winston-Salem, and also in the
Twin City were Henry Baker, Charlie Martin, Dave Newbold, Harding Sugg, John Throop, and Jack Millson, who went for the
band concert at Salem College. Elmore Holt and Bob Plyler spent the week-end in Greensboro. George Richmond and George Stowe
went to Charlotte with the Glee Club.

Gamma Delta—
Brother Jim Thomas went home to Ramseur for the week-end. Brother Tom Crichton and Pledge Brother Charlie Smith journeyed to
Greenville, S. C. Brothers Buck Powell, Poss McLean, and Pete Marchant went on the football trip to Mars Hill. Guests
to the chapter over the week-end were Miss Beth Jacobs, Mr. and Mrs. Mell Taff, and Mrs. Matthis.

The chapter takes great pleasure in announcing that Miss Betty Shull of Charlotte will be the chapter sponsor for this
year.mater) their respective homes, Concord McCallie and Belmont Charlie | Marshall Brother Newell journeyed to, was in Charlotte for the
weekend Rock Hill Saturday and barely Dan Gilliam and Bob Kellog went succeeded in getting back to Dav-| to Chapel
Hill for the Southern idson with his pin. Rumor has it (Continued on Page Six) that Winthrop Day started the
whole U.N.C. Band Pi Kappa Phi— (Continued from Page 1) Brother Dick Lindsey spent the Set of Three Dances -
Fall Frolics will be a set of three weekend in Gastonia and Brother dances. The Friday night dance will, as
usual, be the Hill went to his home in Sharon hours will be from 9 until 1 instead and Bidwell
Ivey went home to Rock Hill. Pledge Jim Hemphill of the regular hours of 10 until 2. On Saturday there
will be a tea- visited his brother in Concord. The dance from 4:30 to 6:30, and the chapter had a
feed Sunday night informal dance Saturday night will begin at 8:30, ending at 12. Brother Chandler and his boys made
their weekly journey to Queens-Chicora. Kappa Sigma— The chapter was host to Professor and Mrs. Schenck at a feed on
Sunday evening. Brothers Cooper and Hudson visited their homes. Brother Ross went to Charlotte and attended the McCallie-Baylor game in
Chattanooga. Brother Scott went to Statesville for the weekend.

Musicians of Davidson Give Performances Winston-Salem and Statesville Hear Groups Davidson musicians have just had an active week, with the
band playing in Winston-Salem Saturday and another group performing tonight in Statesville. Tonight Prof. James C. Pfohl is giving a
concert in the First Presbyterian Church of Statesville, assisted by Mrs. Pfohl, pianist; Mr. W. P. Babcock, ‘cellist; Mr. and
Mrs. Franklin Riker; and a double quartet of male voices. The program includes a recent composition for the organ by
Meekiker. As one of the outstanding events of the evening, Mr. Babcock will play a Gulbrand Enger ‘cello. This instrument,
made in Copenhagen in 1882, came into the possession of the First Presbyterian Church of Statesville shortly after the World
War. To commemorate her father, John Crawford Johnson, a Davidson alumnus of 1854, Mrs. Charles E. Mills has decided to
donate this superb instrument to the Music Department of Davidson. The following selections constitute the program for the concert: Double
Quartet, “Sing Unto the Lord a New Song,” Russell; Tenor Solo by Franklin Riker, “Largo,” from “Xerxes,” Handel; Choral Prelude,
“Ich ruf zu dir,” Bach; Organ Solo by James C. Pfohl, “Reminiscence,” Riker; Soprano Solo by Mrs. Lois Long Riker,
“O Lord Most Holy,” Franck; Cello Solo by Warren Perry Babcock, “The Swan,” Saint-Saens; Cello, Piano and Organ Trio, “Pilgrim
Chorus” from “Tannhauser,” Wagner; Piano Solo by Louise Nelson Pfohl, Choral Prelude, “Jesu, Joy of Man's Desiring,” Bach; Double Quartet,
“Blow, Trumpets, Blow,” James. The band played a concert in the Memorial Hall of Salem College in Winston-Salem Saturday night.
The program was substantially the same as that presented here two weeks ago. After the concert Mrs. James K. Pfohl,
Prof. Pfohl’s mother, gave a reception for the entire band.

Sigma Upsilon Has Program The regular meeting of Sigma Upsilon, national honorary literary fraternity, was held Wednesday, November 17, in
the V.E. house. An interesting program was heard, consisting of a book review by Professor L.C.T. Lilly, a short story
by Chubby King, an essay by Fred Stair, and the first chapter of a serial novel by Eue Fant. Professor
Lilly reviewed the book, “Masterpieces of Japanese Poetry Ancient and Modern.” He briefly discussed some of the characteristics of Japanese
poetry with a particular analysis of Japanese short poems of seventeen syllables. He read some written in the fourth, fifth,
and sixth centuries. The program began with a short story entitled “Ectoplasmic Ecstasies,” which was read by its author, Chubby
King. This was followed by an essay, “The Life of Sir Thomas Lodge,” by Fred Stair. The last item was
the continuation of the serial novel which is being written by various members of the group, in turn. Professor Davidson
in the last meeting read the prologue, which merely laid the foundation of the story. Eue Fant followed up the
prologue with his first chapter in which he carried Robert Pharr Johnston, the hero, through the tempting wit of the
German Department and the city, at which place Professor Erwin will resume the tale at the next meeting. The group
enjoyed a feed, held (Continued on Page 6).

For Comedian Ates Stutter (Courtesy Charlotte Observer) Roscoe Ates, famous movie funnyman, was a feature attraction at the annual Charlotte
Food Show last week. Ates drew hundreds of admiring spectators to the show during his appearances there.

Editor Speaks to News Club Jake Wade Makes Talk To Journalism Class Jake Wade, sports editor of the Charlotte Observer,
spoke on November 17 to the class “Common Methods in Newspaper Organization.” Wade opened his talk by giving a brief
history of newspaper types, showing how the journalistic story has developed from pure news, through a period when there was
only news, to the present day era of syndicated columns, features, and photographic news. He said that there are splendid
opportunities in journalistic work for young men, although the rank and file of newsmen do not receive large pay. There
are high rewards for those who really apply themselves. Mr. Wade's talk also contained a hybridization of college newspapers. He
himself was a football player in college. He stated that Davidson would not change either in policy or in its
rank on such a heavily subsidized team as Duke and Carolina. There were about forty-five present (Continued on Page 6).

Film Shown “Emil and the Detectives,” a German sound film, was shown at Davidson Tuesday afternoon under the auspices of
the Lecture Committee. The dialogue was in German and there were English titles. The plot was simple.

Coal Wood ..- Delivered Same Day ... DAVIDSON ICE & FUEL CO. PHONE 130 Call Us When You Need

“Funny Man” Discards Stutter Interviewer Ates Overcame Stutter at 20 But Continues to Use it In Jokes What was expected
to be a rather lengthy and somewhat spasmodic interview with funnyman Roscoe Ates, of the movies, turned out to be
a short snappy few minutes with hardly any hesitation or word-chewing on the part of the man famous for his
stuttering. After finishing his turn at the Food Show, held last week, Ates found himself in an old chair on
stage to get a glimpse of the famous comedian. The surprise came as a result of his answering with almost
machine-gun-fire rapidity. “I stuttered until I was twenty,” he said. “I overcame it, but it seemed I laughed more than
I stuttered. When I told my jokes, I continued to stutter and found myself to be a star of the
radio, stage, and screen world, because of it. I stuttered for fifteen or twenty years of that work,” he added.
Mr. Ates was born in Hattiesburg, Miss. He became known widely through his work in pictures, although for many years
he did only stage work. Having been in the movies for the last several years, he has appeared in approximately
forty-five or fifty pictures. Immediately after his appearance in Charlotte he returned to the coast to continue work before the
cameras. Back in his hometown, before he attempted to be a professional laugh-getter, he was the leader of a local
dance orchestra. He is very musical, and gave classical selections on the stage at the show.

PI KAPPA ALPHA Pres. Lafferty should set the style in full dress for winter. College Men Should and will wear
the Marion Davis Co. full dress suits. WITH— @ Wide Lapels @ Fuller Chest @ Broader Shoulders FABRICS— @ Pure
Wool COLORS— @ Black @ Midnight Blue For Your Entire Wardrobe Visit MARION DAVIS CO. 205 S. Tryon Street CHARLOTTE,
N. C.
