THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 24, 1937

Riding, Sloan’s Liniment Part of Student Activity
Students Visit Colonial Riding Academy, South of Huntersville

PONIES PRANCE PLENTY
Many Davidsonians Try Hand At New Sport

Sloan's liniment for horses and for family use has hit a new high in sales during the past week at
local drug stores. The liniment hasn’t been bought for the horses, either, but for the riders, for in case you
don't already know it, horseback riding is the newest student craze for the last fortnight. So, when next you see
someone with some slight replica of “Jug Head” Johnston's renowned legs, you can safely draw the conclusion that somebody's been
riding Mr. Joe Craig’s nice little gentle pony “Flash.”

Oh, yes, didn’t you know why all the ladies—even the little kids—all ride “Flash?” ‘Cause he’s so gentle, oh yes,
he’s a nice little horse. Yeah, Earle Sande MIGHT enjoy riding “Flash!” “Flash,” just one of fourteen “gentle little ponies,”
happens to be an ex-polo-pony—and boy, can he STOP! The rider (Tom Corbin especially included), just sits tight, sometimes, when
the four-leg brakes are applied and then the fun begins—the equestrian (?) takes about three good bounces and then tries
to stay in the saddle. Mr. Craig will tell you that Will Rogers rode “Flash” in a polo game once:
Tom Corbin will tell you that it wasn’t a merry-go-round horse that he rode.

Now the very height of docility, says Mr. Craig, is Nancy, a nice old sway-back mare. Ovid Bell will give
you fine references for Nancy because he can ride Nancy without keeping his feet in the stirrups and somewhat resembles
the well-known “bouncing ball,” and too, he likes to look like Ichabod Crane coming to town. Jack Branch made the
fatal “faux-pas” of getting a small size saddle and his cup overfloweth. But “White Lady,” Mr. Craig’s prize five-gaiter, offered
a challenge which the Wooly West in Branch couldn't resist. The only casualty for that afternoon was a pair of
breeches, which, unfortunately, got the seat ripped out. White Lady, bless her soul, has a cute new step but it
looks like the boys are going to have to take “Skunky” Peters out to tell them whether it’s the “Charleston”
or the “Shelby Roundhouse.”

J. C. Crowell and fair Lady Gammon had a lovely time out at Mr. Craig’s last Saturday afternoon. If you
don't believe it, just ask Crowell. The stables go under the name of the Colonial Riding Academy and it is
located at Croft, if you know where that is, and if you don't, it’s about eleven miles from Davidson on
the Charlotte highway.

New Books Arriving In Library Each Day
Large quantities of books have been coming in at the library every day this week, being mostly from the departmental
orders recently sent off. Some of the recent acquisitions are: A History of Science, Technology, and Philosophy, Electron Tubes in
Industry, Portraits of Jesus Christ in the New Testament, Christian Morality, Social Institutions and Ideals of the Bible, Hebrew Philosophical
Genius, Nuclear Physics, Highways of Christian Doctrine, Demon of the Absolute, Sceptical Approach to Religion, On Being Human, World of
Chance, Nature of Physical Theory, Types of Philosophy, and many others.

AMONG THE GREEKS
(Continued from Page 5)

Sigma Phi Nuthin’
The boys enjoyed a feed last Thursday night because the N.Y.A. money came in. Peabody took a girl to the
dance Saturday night and Quick and Clark acted as chauffeurs because they didn’t have the two bucks necessary. Pledge Williams
had his pledge broken three times during the past week. A banquet will be held next week at the Little
Canary Cottage, in Charlotte. The menu will consist of hamburgers and hamburgers.

Bailey KING 1 CONDUCTOR OF SWING SESSION
Orchestra Gives Prelude To Dances in Chapel

The Junior class gave a boost to the advertisement of the Junior-Speaking dances and also a very entertaining program by
presenting “Chubby” King and his Davidson Swingsters last Friday in chapel. To begin the program Jim Dorsett rushed down the
middle aisle to “Chubby’s” seat and presented two telegrams to him. The maestro arose from his seat, took off his
overcoat, and to the astonishment of all revealed that he was attired in white tie and tails. Then he strode
down the aisle, ascending the steps to the stage, and when the thundering applause had died down, he read the
two telegrams. The first was from Myrna Loy, who expressed her profuse regrets that she would not be able to
attend the dances, but that she was previously “tied up.” The second, from Sally Rand, read: “Dear Chump, accept offer
to present floor show at Junior-Speaking dances. Offer new routine including sensational dance minus my usual bubbles. Love and kisses,
Sally.”

“Chubby” then gave a short talk telling the boys what was waiting for them during the weekend at the dances
and then his very melodic orchestra beat out two good numbers, the dashing “Swamp Fire” and the sentimental “You're Laughing
at Me.”

FORENSIC TEAM
(Continued from Page 1)

The affirmative of the “Wages and Hours” question in each of their debates included those with the University of the
South at Sewanee, Centre College, and the U. of Kentucky.

“BUCK” CURRIE SPEAKS
(Continued from Page 1)

However, as soon as he saw Christ's vicarious sacrifice on the cross, he hastened to Pilate, announced his conversion and
asked to be allowed to bury His Master’s body. Thursday evening the minister asserted that there was little more light
in the world than in Jesus’ day, in spite of all the material development since then. The only way men
can learn how to fulfill the command to be lights of the world is to follow the example of Jesus,
who also was the light. He was always able to think above the low line of prejudice,and he showed that
ability when he led the disciples into the land of the degenerate Gadarenes. Prejudice, according to Mr. Currie, is still
today a besetting sin of Christians. Christ was a light of the world also in that He revealed to mankind
the value of the soul. He was interested in all men, because no matter how sinful they were, they all
had souls. Lastly, Christ gave light to the world by revealing to men the heart of God. He was revealing
God’s heart when He went to the Cross. The world could see more of Christ if Christians were willing to
risk and suffer something in order to reveal Him better. Mr. Currie’s sermons on Sunday morning and evening were not
parts of the series which composed the spring services. His themes then were “Prepare to meet thy God,” and “Calvary.”

‘BUCK’ CURRIE CLOSES (Continued from Page 5)

world lose its sorriness and be rich. “What better field,” asked Rev. Currie, “could we give our lives to than
the service of the church? Christ thought this work worthy of His blood. The church today needs a re-enlistment of
sacrificial blood.” Rev. “Buck” Currie closed his series of sermons to the students of Davidson by saying that a man’s
religion doesn’t mean much to him unless he has sacrificed and suffered for his religion's sake. “Can the world see
any blood on your faith?”

LECTURES

Countess Alexandra Tolstoy, daughter of Leo Tolstoy, famous Russian novelist, who spoke last Monday night in Chambers Auditorium. She is
the last speaker the faculty committee on lectures will present this year.

STATION WBT (Continued from Page 3)

ing number in the form of the inspiring Hallelujah Chorus, by Handel. This was played by the band. For the
first time in the history of the Davidson broadcasts, the presentation took place from the basement instead of the auditorium
of Chambers building, and was done as an experiment at the suggestion of WBT engineers.

FRENCH GROUP (Continued from Page 1)

“L’Anglais tel qu’on Le Parle” were: H. W. Barrow, S. A. Cothran, L. M. Kornegay, J. R. McClelland, H. H.
McFadyen, F. S. Poe, J. H. Smith, and J. C. Winn.

CENTENNIALS CHOOSE (Continued from Page 1)

victory almost uncontested by any of his classmates for this honor. Ken had 52 out of 75 votes cast for
12 men.

Most In Love

Bob Johnston came out on top by five votes but Russell Patterson and Walt Dickson were pushing him hard all
the way. Bill Quick and Bill Brown were also strong contenders.

Best Athlete

Bill Quick won with a good majority over eleven other men. Dick Johnson and Ed Armfield were his closest rivals.
Peabody, Jim Johnston, and Tom Corbin followed in that order.

Profoundest Proboscis

L. K. “Snozz” Hill, living up to his handle, won the greatest victory in the whole poll by taking 70
out of 78 votes cast for only three men. Joe Hunter and Tom Breeden were the only men who so
much as dared enter the race.

Laziest

H. T. “Pinky-Puss” Mills, Tom Corbin, and “Colonel” Carl Groover came in as named, but Pinky had a hard time
winning.

Ugliest

Jim Johnston just did beat out Bobby Peters for this position. Carl Carlson and Ed Armfield, although not next, turned
in a good account of themselves.

L. K. Hill received a greater total of votes than any other senior with 73 to his credit. Harold Sugg
is next with a total of 66, then is Ken Scott with 54, followed by Bill Quick with 42, Wilbur
Edwards 38, Jack Branch, Roy Bigham, and Jim Johnston were all well up in the thirties. For super-superlatives we have
Wilbur Edwards and Jack Branch neck and neck as they both placed in 7 columns with a higher average vote
than anyone else. Harold Sugg had more votes in more than one column than any other Senior. This poll expresses
the opinion of slightly more than fifty percent of the Seniors with 79 signed ballots out of a class of
147.

PAGEANT WORK (Continued from Page 1)

actual number of costumes may come close to 1000, many of the actors appearing in more than one scene. Mr.
Viehman expressed enthusiasm after his research work. “The history of Davidson is much fuller than appears at first glance,” he
remarked. “At the start, I supposed a month or so would be sufficient for writing the production, but the time
easily lengthened into three months.” He stated that this is one of the most interesting historical pageants he has worked
on. Among other productions of this type that Mr. Viehman has written and directed is the University of Alabama’s centennial
pageant presented in 1931. He also directed the Four Nations peace celebration at Niagara Falls in 1934, and the Yorktown
sesquicentennial in 1932.

DR. GWYNN (Continued from Page 1)

here. He is now at Yale and had, according to Dr. Gwynn, the highest rating of any applicant from that
institution. To learn the “kicks” of students and attempt to eliminate their causes is the aim of the Student Senate
at Purdue University. It has placed a “gripe-box” in the union building to collect written complaints.

UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY RICHMOND, VA. B. R. LACY, JR., D.D., President

A student at Union Seminary has the benefit of association with a Student Body drawn from 42 colleges and universities,
19 states, and 3 foreign countries.

Filled With UT. CANDIES By NORRIS—NUNNALY WHITMAN’S POSTAGE PAID ON CANDY Anywhere in the City Limits

“A Real Easter Special” THE CORSAGE BOX OF CHOCOLATES 97c 1 lb. — 10 oz. Decorated With Orchids And Lily
Of The Valley FREE DELIVERY By Western Union

When you find out how mild and good-tasting Chesterfields are... you hold on to ’em. With a bulldog grip, millions
of smokers hold on to Chesterfields...

Copyright 1937, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.
