Page Four THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, NOV. 24, 1937. 

Three Teams Tied For Lead in Frat Football

Sports Afield

Harriers Place Third In Conference Meet

Battle Royal is Feature of Mat Tourney

Annual Intramural Wrestling Tournament Draws Many Entrants

The Intramural wrestling tournament ended with contestants competing in all of eight classes. Entrants showed surprising skill in their first tests of the season. As the Wildcats take the field against the Demon Deacons tomorrow in Charlotte, Coach Parks' harriers will be competing in the finals. Captain Leonard Fort, Craver Bailey, Williams, Lafferty, Bill Spicer, Bobby Williams, Fred Dennis, Frank Purdy, and Heywood Hill will be vying for titles. Nick Spencer and "Chump" Charles will battle in the 155-pound class, while Miller "Trader" McLean will meet in the 175 and unlimited classes respectively. None of these have met any competition as yet.

For Wake Forest Game

According to the latest pre-game ballyhoo heard around the campus, the Deacons will be a pushover. But don't kid yourself. They have a ball team over at Wake Forest that has been improving all season and is nobody's set-up. It is true that they lost to the Dukes 67-0, but on the other hand, they bounced Erskine 19-0, only two points short of the score the Cats ran up on the Seceders.

In the 126-pound class, Whisnant will meet Fisher for the title, after beating Moore.

Bailey Wins

In the 135-pound class, Bailey pinned Brandon in 2 min. 45 sec., and will meet Williams in the finals for the title. In one of the most hotly-contested matches in the 135-pound class, there are eight entrants. Fred Prince will meet Joe Wilson, who advanced after defeating Kenney and Bill Telford respectively. Ken Parrish and Louis Brosh also won in the first round.

Over Wofford

The other day Coach Bill Alexander of Georgia Tech had an idea which sounds as if it might be worth trying if it could be reviewed by Morgan Blake, sports editor of The Atlanta Journal. The two were discussing the sad plight of Sewanee. This little school is in a deplorable situation, hopelessly out of place in the Southern Conference. Saturday after Saturday, its team battles bravely but ineffectively against the superior resources and manpower of the "Big Thirteen" teams.

Schiltz Paces Kittens In Last Meet

(Courtesy Charlotte Observer)

The Davidson cross-country team has enjoyed one of the best seasons in recent years, boasting a record of five wins with only one loss. Under the tutelage of Coach Pete Whittle, the Harriers have defeated State, Duke, Guilford, Mercer, and Auburn while losing only to the North Carolina champions. The team is composed of only one senior, Capt. Bruce Parcell, four juniors, and four sophomores, and consequently, the prospects for next year are unusually good. Boo Walker has been the most consistent winner for the Wildcats, and Parcell and Woodard have alternated at the second and third positions.

Harriers Take Third in Conference

Conference Meet Closes Successful Cross Country Season

Davidson's cross-country team completed their 1937 season by placing third in the Southern Conference meet held last Saturday at Chapel Hill. The University of North Carolina Tar Heels retained their team title, while Washington & Lee finished second. The Wildcats' only score came in the third quarter. A pass, Harrison to Benfield, followed by a lateral to Hicks, gained about 30 yards and put the 'Cats in pay dirt. A few plays later, Harrison took the ball through tackle on the weak side for about six yards and a touchdown.

Terriers Drop All-Americans

The Davidson freshman football team ended their season last Saturday with a 6 to 0 victory over Mars Hill College in a blinding snowstorm. Neither team scored until the last quarter when the Wofford team scored two touchdowns in the last five minutes of play to win by a score of 13 to 6. At the start of the fourth quarter, Davidson's promising 19-year-old back, John Hay, ran 72 yards around left end for a touchdown.

Davidson Seniors End Gridiron Careers; Coach Peahead Walker Says Wake Forest Starting Lineup Will Be Same as Usual

The traditional Davidson-Wake Forest rivalry, which has been in existence since 1908, will again come to the front when the Wildcats battle the Demon Deacons at Memorial Stadium in Charlotte tomorrow, Thanksgiving Day.

Eleven Davidson seniors, seven of whom are regulars, will be singing their collegiate swan song as far as intercollegiate football is concerned. Heading the list is Teeney "Twinkletoes" Lafferty, who has made football fans freeze in their seats for the past three years with his brilliant playing. Other Wildcats who will close their careers are Newton Smith, Fred Dennis, Frank Purdy, Chubby King, Bob Greene, Bailey Williams, Haywood Hill, Spencer Goodman, John Sadler, and Bill Nicholson. Billy Eustler of Whiteville, Dave Fuller of Wake Forest, and Allen Powers of Denver, Tenn., are sophomores who will be seeing service against the Davidson team for the first time. Eustler is small, weighing but 150 pounds. He is a left-hander and Coach Walker runs him at right halfback so that he can throw the reverse pass back to the left side of the field. He is also a good runner with lots of speed and drive, according to sports notices.

At Wake Forest

At Wake Forest, Coach Peahead Walker, Murray Greason, and Ellis Fysal and a small but spirited band of Deacon grid hopefuls have been working long and hard getting ready for the Davidson game. The Davidson freshman football team ended their season last Saturday with a 6 to 0 victory over Mars Hill College in a blinding snowstorm. Neither team scored until the last quarter when the Wofford team scored two touchdowns in the last five minutes of play to win by a score of 13 to 6. At the start of the fourth quarter, Davidson's promising 19-year-old back, John Hay, ran 72 yards around left end for a touchdown.

Lemmon Surprises

Lemmon surprised everyone by finishing third in 131.5. Smith was the only Wofford runner to finish before the first eight Davidson runners came in, and he finished in 9:35. Lemmon's time was only one second under the conference record. This ended the afternoon's scoring.

The Cat harriers had quite a bit of tough luck in Chapel Hill last Saturday. At the start of the fourth quarter, Davidson's promising 19-year-old back, John Hay, ran 72 yards around left end for a touchdown.: ; sa "| set by Morse of Duke in last year’s) ing, but the ball was on the Mars ; meet Hill four-yard stripe when the Terriers Come Back | ei el : \ . Maine enaes Phe Wotford frosh got the ball Walker Leads 1 the kick-off though and deter-| Boo Walker was Davidson's first Aerials Numerous mined not to stop until they had/ man across the final marker, fin- Although the day was bitterly crossed the goal. Bennett drop- ishing in eighth position. Captain cold and snow was continually fall- ping back to his 35-yard line hurled Bruce Parcell finished a fine career ing, there was a good deal of pass- a 25-yard pass to “Chink” Elias, by running his best race of the sea- ing done by both teams. Davidson on the Davidson 30. The try son to wind up in 13th place. Dave was very successful in their air at- for the score failed, and the Woodward followed in 17th place, tack and Harrison and Hicks threw Wofford frosh blocked Bill Telford in 28th, and Bob Kel- a number of completed passes. In Davidson’s punts—on the log, John Wilson, Joe Gammon, and the fourth quarter the Lions of Mars Hill 7-yard line, and this Dan Gilliam followed in the thir- Mars Hill filled the air with pig- was scooped up and carried it to the Davidson ties. skins as they vainly tried to over- 7. From there he made three plun- Kellog, Davidson's fine sopho- come the six-point lead. ges and carried the ball over for more runner from New York, suf- J. D. Hicks consistently outkick- the final touchdown of the after- fered a bad fall at the start of the ed the Lion booter but both aver- noon. The meet was one of the most race when he was pushed by a ages were high. Davidson had the thrilling in the history of the rival. edge in rushing and Mars Hill nev- event; several individual races de- The past season was one of the er seriously threatened the Cat- veloped at the finish; all of the most successful in the history of amounts. Bennett and Elias looked runners being closely bunched. the event at Davidson. The team especially good in the backfield for The cross country aggregation engaged in six meets, losing only the Wofford teams. has completed a remarkably suc- one, and that to the champion Bentield at end, McLean at cen- cessful season, having lost only North Carolina team. ter, Harrison at quarter, and Hicks one meet to the Tar Heels, who All of the boys are now looking at full looked promising for the could make things hot for any forward to next year, which holds All-Americans. team in the country. The only sen- prospects of an even greater sea- ior on the team is Bruce Parcell, son. Captain Bruce Parcell is lost who has done a great job of cap- through graduation, but Schiltz, taining the squad. Blue, “Skinny” Lowrance, Leonard BRYANT GIVEN HONOR Green, and Hay up from the frosh (Continued from Page-1) are looked for to give fine support Monday and Tuesday, November to this year’s team. Coach Whittle 29 and 30, there will be a national announces that there will be a “B” convention of Gamma Sigma Ep- team next year because of the large silon in Raleigh, N. C. Professor squad and the great interest shown Theis, who holds the national of- in the sport this year. fice of Grand Keeper of the Kult, The newly-organized sport of and Marion Bryant, will attend. Intramural soccer has proved of During the eight-game schedule great interest to the college stu- played the team tied engage- dents this year, with a large num- ments, two with Newton, and one ber of inexperienced but willing each with Maiden, Huntersville, players reporting for practice. and Senior Intra- Three of these games During the Davidson Mural team. were scoreless battles. During the season the team defeated Hunters- ville, and lost to Maiden by identi- cal scores, 13 to 0. In our plans for helping others, let’s not overwhelm those who must earn the money to pay the bill. A man never learns the real truth about himself until he’s mar- ried. comers are expected to fill capably the positions left vacant by gradu- ation. of Capt. Parker. Charlie Sears, and Lock Vass. Intramural wrestlers are expected to fill most of the vacant positions. The annual tournament to find promising ma- terial was held last week. TODAY’S POPULAR SPORT BOWLING! On Saturday Nights—or any other night—take her out to bowl. She’ll like that! Take her where she’ll feel at home. THE HEALTH CENTER 12114 South Tryon TRY THE SOUTHERN 5c & 10c Store For Anything and THE CHARLOTTE —AND— Everything ready for the Turkey Day classic. Captain Boots Mumford, “as bril- liant a center as ever donned a Wake Forest uniform,” according to Wake Forest news bulletins, will wind up his grid career. First stringers McCarthy, Hoyle and Bryan will also play their last foot- ball game. Coach Walker will stick to prac- tically the same line-up Thursday that has started for Wake Forest in most of the games this fall. He has using Fred Hoyle and Cagers Ready For Practice Hopes For Good Season Davidson’s basketball squad have been holding intensive varsity practice sessions for the past week. With the return of five lettermen from last year’s team, the "Cats ex- pect to have a strong aggregation on the hardwood this season. Heading the lettermen are Ned Iverson and J. D. Hicks, varsity regulars last year. Bill Kiesewetter, John Tice and Lawrence Reid, are the other lettermen. Jim Cowan, transfer from Mars Hill, is also ex- pected to put up a battle for one of the starting positions. From last year’s “B” team, Swede Johnson and Dan Iverson, are standouts, while Benny Harrison, and Jim Thomas up from last year’s frosh five are fighting it out for a place on the squad. The first game of the year will be played on December 13, when the quint will meet the College of Charleston from Charleston, S. C., here. The team will make a north- ern trip during the Christmas holi- days. Certainly, We Like You! ALL Davidsonians ought to know, by this time, of the pride we feel in considering ourselves “Charlotte headquarters” for Davidson men. Even if you never come into The Tavern or the Main Dining Room (do you suppose there are any Davidsonians who never do?) we're glad to see you in the Lobby, meeting a date or telephoning, or just dropping in when you're in town. We want Davidson men to know that we like ’em, and we're always trying to do the things that'll persuade them to like us. HOTEL CHARLOTTE PAUL & CRYMES, Inc. - - Sporting Goods - - 415 South Tryon St. Charlotte, N. C.