Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN

The Davidsonian
Founded By the Class of 1915

1936 Member 1937
Associated Collegiate Press
Distributors of Collegiate Digest

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON Ave. New York, N.Y.
CHICAGO - BOSTON - SAN FRANCISCO
LOS ANGELES - PORTLAND - SEATTLE

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879.

Editor-in-Chief DICK VOWLES
Business Manager R. H. ROBINSON

EDITORIAL STAFF
Ovid Bell Managing Editor
Calvin Wesley Managing Editor
Coghill Terrell Porter Managing Editor
Managing Editor Sports Editor
Perry Sloan Associate Editor
Bill Marquess Associate Editor
Owen Cooke Associate Editor
Sam Cothran Associate Editor
Clid Fant Associate Editor
Victor McGeachy Associate Editor
Yates Faison Associate Editor
Sam Ryburn Art Editor
Henry Baker Copy Reader
Wilson Lowrance Circulation Manager
Ralph Chandler Circulation Manager
Charles Moore Collection Manager
M. Hall Advertising Manager
Beth Business Manager

Our doubts are traitors and make us lose the good we oft might win, by fearing to attempt. —Shakespeare.

A NEW STAFF
And with this issue, as can be seen from the above masthead, a new editorial staff takes over the paper. We hope that we can serve the student body as efficiently and put out as good a publication as the past staff has done. There will be no drastic changes made in The Davidsonian at least until the next school year. As a group, we solicit the co-operation of the student body during the coming year.

TWO SIDES...
A short paragraphic appeared in this column sometime back stating that a certain cafe frequented by Davidson students had eliminated free phone service. The grounds taken for this action were based upon the fact that students talking over the telephone for extended periods caused the establishment to lose considerable trade. This concern advertises in all our publications and does not wish to infringe upon any privileges.

COUNCIL SET-UP...
The future Pan-Hellenic Council set-up is probably the most debated question of the week, and so it should be since it controls, to a great degree, the social life of the student body. The fifty-fifty scheme between fraternities and councilmen seems to be the safest system, unless the Greek lodges are willing to take the chance for more profit. Then, too, the less the council representative has an opportunity of making, the less he will try to fulfill his duties efficiently. At least, such is human nature.

CEILING SPOT...
Reports have it that the spot on the ceiling in Chambers Auditorium will soon be eradicated. The architect and others have inspected the faulty place. Lighting experts have also been called in to study that problem in relation to the stage. So the college has not been inactive about these two much griped-about things.

ELECTION RESULTS...
Sometimes it almost seems unfair that the student body in its entirety cannot participate in elections. Many men are taken away from the campus by various sport and debating trips. And the closer an election runs, the more these absent men might sway an election result. Not that we advocate fewer trips, but a better system.

DEADWOOD...
And such was the not altogether complimentary word used in reference to several honorary fraternities. An organization is not much good if it only meets enough to justify its need to the council. It should have some definite purpose and function. Of course, in the opinion of some students, honoraries are merely a matter of recognition. However, we think they should be more, unless they reach the point where the members are forced to neglect other things of more importance. An honorary can be overactive also though.

PUBLICITY MAN...
If the college ever needs publicity, Conrad Frederick Smith is the man, and right ready on the job. Smith is probably the best Davidson has had. Not merely a newspaperman, but a cartoonist, photographer, and writer rolled into one. Nor has he overrated sports, but given publicity in all branches of college activity.

To the Editor...

DEAR DICK:
With the question of reorganizing the Pan-Hellenic Council in the limelight, the following plan has been suggested: That each of the fraternities provide a certain specified sum of money in the fall which could be used by the Council as working capital in giving the first dance of the year, and that the fraternities back the Pan-Hellenic Council 100 percent on any possible losses and receive at the end of the school year 75 percent of any profits made during the year. The remaining 25 percent would be given to the members of the Council as a commission for their services to the fraternity group. Thus the Council would no longer exist as an independent group and would be acting only as the agent for the fraternities. It seems that such a plan would add to the efficiency of the Pan-Hellenic Council and at the same time put the profits in the right place. What do you think about it?
—JUST ANOTHER GREEK.

Campus Comments
Most of the campus comments written heretofore have been critical with only a few suggestions now and then. In keeping in line with the critical component, I would like to mention a word or two concerning our church attendance and attitude. You know, as well as I, that our attitude toward the speaker is not what it should be. I doubt that there is a student in church, unless he be on the front row, who cannot see in front of him three or more boys nodding or asleep. At that remark, some of you will “rise up in arms,” but let us look at the situation from a different standpoint. Suppose you place yourself in the speaker's position. How do you think you would feel to look out upon an audience, half of whom are nodding? No, you could not speak nearly as well as you could if all seemed interested and attentive. One doesn’t necessarily have to sit exactly upright to seem attentive, but should assume something more than a lazy slumped position. I know how difficult it is to follow the speaker at times, but you will grant that we secure some of the best speakers in the South for our vesper programs. We should show our appreciation for such calibre of men. Personal opinions from others have not caused me to write this comment. I don’t know what you — you reading these words right now — think about the situation, but I would like to know what some of you do think. I hope that you readers will not take this to be a deeply rooted criticism, for it is only an appeal to you to aid in making our services more attractive and more enjoyable.
—MARTIN L. LAFFERTY.
P. S.—I request Haywood Hill, President-elect of the Y. M. C. A., to write the next Campus Comments.

Make Davidson’s Centennial Program a Success!

ITS IN THE AIR...
We glanced through the pages of ye paper last Monday night, for a change, and noted to our surprise the predominating note. It seems that this year, spring brings sweet thoughts of pageants, beauty contests and the like. We can’t quite understand it, but guess it’s all right.

LOCAL HIGH SCHOOL...
“Twenty beautiful contestants,” whose number had dwindled to ten, paraded before judges and audience in a beauty contest held in the Davidson High School last Friday night. Miss Martha Withers, daughter of Dr. J. J. Withers, local physician, won first place. Miss Jean Byers of Cornelius, was chosen second.

The “Spinsters’ Skip” is the name of a “ladies only” dance to be held at Montana State College. The girls will don their most elusive finery and swing and sway amid the colorful setting of a Mardi Gras.

Ride-thumbers at University of Colorado will have to curb their technique. The chief of police has promised a ticket to anyone who thumbs from the street instead of the curbing.

When lessons, meetings, plays and outside activities pile up on the calendars of the girls at Stephens College, the president calls a “Stop Day,” 24 hours during which students can do what they please.

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 14, 1937

CAMPUS CAMERA
Tid is called “THE FATHER OF BIG TEN GOLF.” HE TOOK UP GOLF FOR HIS HEALTH IN 1896, AND BECAME SO ENTHUSIASTIC THAT IN 1901 HE ORGANIZED THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN GOLF TEAM, REMAINING AS COACH UNTIL LAST YEAR. HIS TEAMS HAVE WON THE LAST FIVE BIG TEN CHAMPIONSHIPS.

By AL CADE
Frank Dailey and Orch will play for Bowery Ball on May 7th and 8th. Last year they were trying to contract this band for Mid-Winters. No small-time band, Dailey is known far and wide for his excellent dance music reminiscent of that of Eddie Duchin. Last year he used to come on about noon broadcasting from the Meadowbrook near Newark, N. J. You can hear him this Saturday over WJZ and WHAM at 11:00 P. M. This is definitely a Good Thing and rates our support. Last set of the year, and for some it is the last dances of all time as students. Set tickets will cost $4.00 and there will be two tea dances, a formal, and Bowery Ball. And a delightful time is anticipated by all, including the Scandinavian.

Short Story—
It is rumored on Queens-Chicora campus that a Davidson boy went home spring holidays and placed a ring on the finger of his favorite femme. But she quickly became a femme fatale for he neither saw nor heard from her for a week. Then another sucker brought her to the Duke game where she completely snubbed number one. That night he went over to get the ring back but this convincing babe talked him out of it. Kipling and Barnum were right.

Mrs. Sloan: George stayed on the campus this weekend and was a good boy. And please urge Perry to leave Virginia for B.Ball. “Davidson students were glad to hear of the election of Mr. Jackson, affectionately named “Cash” by the boys, to the presidency of O. D. K. And we think Mr. Chalmers Davidson rates recognition for his progressive work up at the Library, recent marriage, and temporary professorship. Chivy . . . Ben Nash, like Dick Whittington, had a cat. Herm (the Germ) Clark gets calls from Marjorie Webster, but they're Bill Johnston’s Sunday School class picnicking this Thursday and stags wanted. Fish-face Maloney used to know Frank Dailey’s vocalist. Bill Master’s system is to follow up an introduction with a letter in the next mail. Are you a Goop? The Goops are industriously munching yeast to obtain schoolboy cheeks and the illustrated step-by-step dance chart offered by a well-known yeast and gin mfg. If she laughs when you sit down to play, whether or not she’s ticklish, join the Goops and learn the facts of social life. Norfleet, Hill, Breeden, Branch, and Peters to Chapel Hill for May Frolics. Needlenose did not think that soup bowl was a finger bowl. Worth Sprunt, J. C., Foxy, Mark, Mushmouth, Ovid and Wilson very interested in newspaper around Tavern table until Foxy’s shoelace caught fire. Tricky moping. Phi frequent collect. L Gams danced but no one except delegates had fun until after the dance. Goof is slipping, in spite of his late date, which was not with Ruth. Elmore Holt likes breakfast dates also. Why did Dooley’s Florida fille wire she was leaving town when she heard he was coming? A dash of Wildroot will cure that, sir, she said. Pinkney Stowe undecided about which car to take to the Bowery. Nolan up to see Crouchface and Covington was both true and blue this time. And Stew Barnes received Suge and “Welcome Home” sign, Gasteiger should be quarantined. Ray Pittman, Joe Calvin, Dick Taylor and Charlie Edwards record bumming to Hal Kemp hop. Where Bob McClellan, Dave MacMillan, T. P. Porter, Harry Keykendall, John Milnes, Bill McLean, Ken Lawson, Charlie Mauze, and others heeled and toed. Wade Boggs showing stadium date Friday night. Sonny Heilman weeps Tiger Jim likes them guests from Greensboro. Port's unique to no more for his lady. Louis Hipp and Ippy Carter’s sudden exit. Bill Freize is contemplating giving Colonel Fred Smith competition. The Kentucky Home, Boys with Hot Shot Elmer about 12:15 are even worse than the Briarhopper Boys and that just about reaches the depth in entertainment. And the Myers Park and D. A. R. dances but bagatelles wouldn't interest you, stupe. Frank Harrison the timid type at Duke track meet but Major Clark was worried because Sweet Sue was the snakee. And how many of you would sign a petition for a course in public speaking next year? Even with Dale Carnegie as instructor? Without attempting to be dogmatic, a course in public speaking is one thing Davidson needs very much. A little agitation would be apropos.

Stolen Thunder Modern Verse—
Gather ye rosebuds while ye may
Oh time it is a-flying,
And this same flower that smiles today
Smiles at everybody like that,
So don’t get swell-headed.

Ad Where There’s Hope—
“What does the old maid say at the end of her nightly prayer?”
“Ah, Men!”

Help Wanted!—
An excited female voice came over the phone: “Two boys are trying to break into my room through the window.” “Listen, lady, you've got the wrong number,” answered the voice. “This isn’t police headquarters, this is the fire department.” “I know,” she answered, “but my room is on the second floor, and they need a ladder.”

Saucy Saying—
“I might as well go in and get stewed,” said the prune, as he dropped into the saucepan.

The Brute—
There was once a co-ed quite shy,
Who said to a student named Cy,
“If you kiss me, of course,
You will have to use force,
But thank Heaven you're stronger than I.”

DAVIDSON THEATER
Thursday-Friday, April 15-16
Personal Property
Robert Taylor and Jean Harlow in their first picture together. It is a high-powered romance with plenty of laughs.

Saturday, April 17
Off To The Races
A Slim Summerville picture in which he upsets everything by trying to run a horse in the county fair.

Monday, April 19
Internes Can’t Take Money
Light entertainment in which internes and money don’t seem to click together.

Tuesday, April 20
A Family Affair
One of those pictures in which everything seems messed up at first, but finally works out fine in the end.

Wednesday-Thursday, April 21-22
Waikiki Wedding
Bing Crosby, Martha Raye, and Bob Burns in a tremendously popular picture which combines the lure of the tropics, the comedy of the Marx Brothers, and the romance of Hawaii. In the midst of the complicated proceedings are heard five outstanding song hits of the day.

HIGH SCHOOL TENNIS TOURNAMENT
Forty Enter Tournament to Determine Davidson High School Team

The Davidson High School tennis tournament has progressed through two rounds and is scheduled to be completed some time next week. About forty entrants took part in the first two rounds. Bill Wood is seeded number 1, John Gibson at number 2, Price Gwynn at number 3, and Ducks Pharr number 4. Others who have showed good form to date and are expected to give the favorites plenty of trouble are Jimmy Fulcher, Bob Ballard, Edward Maxwell and Frank Caldwell. In a practice match a team selected from the likely winners in the tournament lost to a powerful Mooresville High team, 9-0. Gibson playing at number three took the first set from his opponent, but then dropped two reduced affairs. Pharr at number 5 dropped an extremely close decision. Lack of practice was said to be the main fault in the first match. A return match with Mooresville and several other tentative matches are on tab for the near future.

Dorothy Johnston Is Named To ‘Y’ Cabinet
Miss Dorothy Johnston, of Davidson, now a junior at the University of North Carolina, was one of those named to the Y. M. C. A. cabinet of that institution. Miss Johnston, better known as “Dot” around Davidson, was a co-ed for two years at Davidson College, during which time she was on the school honor roll. She graduated from Davidson High School with highest honors and plans to graduate from the University of North Carolina next year.

Does Happen Here!—
“Isn't it terrible the laundry shrinks things?”
“I'll say. Last week I sent a pair of socks to the laundry and got back two tea bags.”

Sit Down Strike—
“Pat was drowned yesterday.”
“Couldn’t he swim?”
“Yes, but he was a union man. He swam eight hours and quit.”

Tell Qu’on le Parle—
“Consomme, bouillon, hors d’oeuvres, fricasse poulet, pommes de au gratin, demitasse des glaces, and tell dat mug in de corner to keep his lamps off my moll, see!”

Faculty Humor—
I like exams, I think they’re fun.
I never cram, I never fail
—I’m the teacher.

By JIM MORTON

SWAN SONG for the old order is sung and then the new order is ushered in. Another columnist faces the firing line of public opinion. And we offer for your approval the following thingumbobs:

EGOTISM of the American public is contemptible. A recent instance in which the ego of students of Davidson was exploited was in the book entitled WHO'S WHO Among Students in American Universities and Colleges. 2,300 suckers from 394 institutions paid $3.50 apiece for 50c editions.

PAN-HELLENIC COUNCIL, the problem child of Davidson, suggests a solution to past financial complications in one of the following forms: First, that the members of the Pan-Hell Council and the fraternities sponsor the dances together. That is, profit and loss will be divided equally between the members and the fraternities. In the past, the Councilmen have taken any losses and all profits. A second possible solution seems to permit the fraternities to handle all money matters through their Pan-Hell representatives. The Councilmen would receive a stated amount for their work. Under either program, the books would be open for inspection at any reasonable time. A certified public accountant would check the books at the end of the year. The first plan appears to be superior to the second, because the Pan-Hellenic members would have more incentive to work. Individual fraternities would not have to pass on each band before a certain set of dances, and a more conservative basis would be used if the Pan-Hellenic men were in a position to lose their own money. Everybody agrees that a constitution for the Pan-Hell group should be drawn up and a better system of financing dances be installed before the new representatives take over the Davidson dance proposition. The present Pan-Hell is working on the above additions and hope to put them through.

PRESENTING ... “You know me, Horace Lutz, junior, from Hickory, North Carolina,” is the rapid introduction of a bespectacled individual to any stranger. To his friends he pleads, “Don’t call me ‘Dopy’ Dopy.” H. Lutz’s old lady is the one and only Lemuel Kornegay. One of the fastest men off the cinders, Coach Whittle counts on him to bring up the rear cause somebody has got to do it. President I-Bumma-Cig, Muffer of marriages, thriller of ladies, and tactful apologizer for unauthorized intrusions in hotel rooms. Ranks among the best students of horseracing. His pride is chemistry and has gained quite a reputation in the local chemistry world with experimental achievements. H. Lutz is a constant companion of cabarets, and Davidson dances. Pulled a master mourner’s act on proprietor of Charlotte Carnival after losing $3.50. Drives like some of our professors, with a record of one motorcycle mishap from Louisville trip of last year. Inquiring as to life’s profession, the widely-known Davidson personality replied, “Quote me as saying that I’m goin’ to be a politician.”

Christened Robert Trout Peters, Business Manager Scripts ’n Pranks. Aliases: Salty, Frosty, Philbert, and Blanket Hair. He is a good-hearted soul. Centennial celebrite celebrates terpsichorean affairs of Davidson with after dance fling at Tavern. Jack Branch and Salty’s mutual acquaintance at Mid-Winters. Roomies are Booby Peters and (Continued on Page 6)