__to_their parents.

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 1937

THE DAVIDSONIAN

QUEENS AND Y. M. C. A. HEAR DEPUTATIONS SUNDAY AFTERNOON

The “Y” sent two deputations last Sunday, one to the Queens-Chicora Evening League meeting and the other to two boys'
groups at the Charlotte Y. M. C. A. On the vesper program at the Girls’ school, Bill Brown, Bob King,
and E. M. Yow spoke on “Reasons for Praying,” and Yow sang accompanied by Rob Roy Purdy. The girls showed
their appreciation of the program by plying the speakers with refreshments in the Hut afterward.

At the Y. M. C. A. Sunday afternoon, Locke White addressed the older group of boys on the subject of
Honor. Among illustrations of the customs in which codes of Honor play a part, he brought from his experiences on
the tennis courts the custom of a player in a match to throw away a point to his opponent when
the referee calls a ball in his favor and is wrong. Marcus McConnell spoke to the younger group on standing
up for Christ against heavy odds. He illustrated with the story of the forty Christian wrestlers in the Roman army
who were killed for their faith.

WATCH POST OFC FOR MID-YEAR MARKS

All students in school this year probably know by this time that a new system of sending out grades was
followed at the end of the semester. In past years, the individual professors have posted the grades in their respective
courses on the bulletin board in the lobby of Chambers. This year, however, after having several requests from students to
stop the professors from posting grades, the executive committee took up the matter. It has decided that, at the end
of the first semester, each student will be sent an identical copy of the report sent to their parents. This
makes the sending out of grades a more private matter and will doubtless save many students from embarrassment. This plan
will continue to be used until any further action by the executive committee may change it. The mid-semester grades for
the second semester this year will, as usual, be put on the book in the Registrar's office, where students may
secure them. At the end of the semester, the only reports to be sent out will be the regular one
to the parents, the students having already left school before they come out.

Mid Winters — Jan Garber

“HER” Valentine Candy Nunnally

COLLEGE PHARMACY Davidson’s “Service Drug Store”

NEW INFIRMARY PLANNED FOR DAVIDSON

Above is an architect's sketch of the proposed $35,000 infirmary, which is one of the most greatly needed of a
group of buildings planned by the trustees as a part of the centennial program of expansion of college facilities. The
need for an adequate infirmary is listed by Dr. Lingle and those in charge of raising funds as the first
building that should be constructed. The present infirmary is very inadequate, and in case of an emergency would be totally
insufficient. The proposed building would be designed to take care of the ordinary amount of sickness, and any needed expansion.

Beta Theta Pi

Brothers John Winn Cathey spent the weekend in Gastonia, and Dick Dave Sellars went to his home in Burlington for
the weekend, and Tom Abbot also went to Gastonia. There was the usual feed at the fraternity house on Sunday
night. A banquet is being planned which will take place in Charlotte.

Pi Kappa Alpha

Bob Anders went to Camden last week for the polo matches, and Og- burn Spoon went to Greensboro. Brother W.
B. Moore of Cramerton visited the chapter. Pledge Rufus Allison went to Greensboro. There was no feed at the house
last Sunday night.

Kappa Alpha

Marion and Paul Abell visited his home in Chester. Worth Sprunt was in Winston-Salem for the weekend. Brother Jim Johnston
has been on a trip to South Carolina, at which time he visited Charleston.

Pi Kappa Phi

The chapter enjoyed having Sue Limeberger, Margaret Howe, and Margaret Maynard, of Belmont as their guests Sunday night. Brother Van
Patterson gave the chapter a feed Sunday night. Pledges Dick Edwards, Harry Hendrick, and Bidwell Ivey went to the dance
at Salem College last weekend. Bobby Gish went to Bluefield and Harman Woodward went to the Mid-Winter dances at Sweetbriar.
Dick Howie spent the weekend at his home in Greensboro, and Dave Colvin his home in Cliffside.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon

Brother Alex Erwin went to Greensboro last weekend for the dances at the Woman's College. Bruce Edgerton went to Cheraw.
Neil Whitlock of Charlotte visited the chapter. There was the usual feed at the fraternity house on Sunday night.

Kappa Sigma

Brothers George Norfleet, Billy Hill, and Howell went to Sweetbriar last week. Charlie Elder, Carl Carlson, and Pledges Gray Hunter
and Ed Glenn visited their homes in Greensboro. Warren Gaw and Tom went to Greensboro, where they took in the
dances at W. C. The chapter is pleased that Brother Harry Frampton has returned to school.

Phi Gamma Delta

Twelve new men were initiated into the fraternity last Saturday. Members of the class of 1940 who became brothers are:
Herbert J. Monroe, Knoxville; Thomas P. Finlay, Greenville, Miss.; J. Daniel Gilliam, Washington, D.C.; Thomas L. Harnsberger, Jr., Shanghai, China;
John W. Holland, Jackson, Tenn.; Robert O. Kellogg, Jr., Brooklyn, N.C.; Daniel D. McKee, Greenville, Miss.; George H. Richmond, Concord;
George W. Stowe, Jr., Belmont; and John L. Throop, Jr., Water Valley, Miss.; Kenneth C. Darby, Florence, Ala.; and Wilson
J. Northcross, Jr., of Memphis, members of the sophomore class were also initiated. David E. Newhold, of Little Rock, was
taken into the fraternity before Christmas. A formal banquet, the “Pig Dinner,” was held in Charlotte Saturday evening. The “Pig
Dinner” is a national ceremony. Guests at the banquet were: Drs. Cumming, Watts, and T. W. Lingle of the faculty,
as well as Dr. H. J. Bolin, of Knoxville; Coach Eugene McEver, of Davidson; Dave, Bub, and Bill Hall and
Charles Stowe of Belmont. Tyler Port acted as toastmaster and Jack Holland introduced the new men.

Phi Delta Theta

Pete McKnight was a visitor in Greensboro last weekend, where he attended the dances at W. C.

Dr. Lingle To Teach At Virginia This Summer

Dr. T. W. Lingle will return to the University of Virginia at Charlottesville, Va., this summer for his second consecutive
term of teaching there. Dr. Lingle, senior professor of history here, will give a course on Modern European history during
the University’s summer quarter. This is the same course that he has taught in other summer sessions at the university.

CHARLOTTE WOMEN HEAR McDONALD ON MUSIC APPRECIATION

First Three Lectures in Series Of Four Already Presented

Professor Thane McDonald of the music staff of Davidson is presenting a series of lectures on music appreciation in Charlotte.
The talks, of which three of the series of four have already been presented, are being sponsored by the Charlotte
branch of the American Association of University Women. The lectures are held at the Myers Park Presbyterian church hut. The
first of the lectures, which was presented on Tuesday, January 19, was an historical survey of the art of music
and an introduction to its appreciation. The next two addresses were made on the following Tuesdays. The subjects were musical
instruments and the practical appreciation of music. The lectures were well attended. A number of invitations to speak on musical
topics have been presented to Professor McDonald recently. He has agreed to lecture to the Ex Libris Club of Charlotte
on February 19 on the topic of Colonial music and also to the local Book Lovers’ Club on modern music
and musicians, probably on April 23.

N. C.

Brothers Johnny Allen, Tom Breeden, Ralph McClelland, Ovid Bell, and Dennis Myers attended the Kappa Delta party in Charlotte. The
regular feed was held Sunday night, at which time the chapter entertained two guests.

Sigma Phi Epsilon

The chapter is planning a banquet next Saturday night, February 13, in Charlotte. There was the usual feed last Sunday
night. Dr. P. H. Gwynn, Jr., and Professor Avery Patton, of the faculty, and Mrs. N. T. Smith visited the
chapter. John Doty went to Durham last weekend. Jeff Moore went to Cornelius, and Walter Harper to his home in
Augusta.

DRY GOODS GROCERIES RADIO SUPPLIES HARDWARE

M. H. GOODRUM& CO, Zenith & RCA Radios

NATIONAL SOCIETY BEGUN AT DAVIDSON

Local Physics Men Originate Sigma Pi Sigma

Sigma Pi Sigma, now a national working physics society, was founded as a local honorary society at Davidson College on
December 11, 1921, by nine physics students and faculty members who sensed a need for an organization that would bring
those particularly interested in this science into closer association for their mutual benefit. The local fraternity was so successful that
a nationalization movement was launched in 1925. After two years of restricted growth, an extended period of expansion began until
now the fraternity is truly national in scope and influence, with twenty-five chapters well distributed among the leading collegiate institutions
in the country. Sigma Pi Sigma is the only national honorary physics fraternity which has chapters in the recognized colleges
and universities. Its scope and distinction can be seen in its prominent chapters in the larger universities over the country.
It has active chapters at Chicago University, Ohio State University, Michigan State University, Purdue University, and also has a chapter
in the Philippine Islands.

Sigma Pi Sigma has been very active for years, and recently it was elected as one of the eight largest
branches of the American Physics Society. The fraternity is now a member of the American Association for the Advancement of
Science. The society has many distinguished members who are famous in the world of science. Dr. Richtmyer of Cornell University
and Dr. Lemon of Chicago University are both distinguished honorary members. Dr. Haas is one of the many noted European
scientists who joined Sigma Pi Sigma. It is an established policy of the fraternity to sponsor two annual noonday luncheons
in connection with the meetings of the American Physical Society. One of these is at the annual Christmas meeting of
the A.A.A.S., the other at the spring meeting of the Physical Society in Washington. Last year the Mid-Winter luncheon was
held in Boston and proved highly satisfactory.

On the weekend of Feb. 19th and 20th, Sigma Pi Sigma will sponsor a joint meeting with the American Physics
Teachers Society and the American Physical Society at Duke University. At this meeting, the fraternity will have a symposium. The
Davidson Alpha Chapter has always been one of the very strongest chapters of the fraternity. It has always been active
and cooperative. Since the beginning in 1921 until the present day, the Davidson Chapter has stuck to its original aim
which was placed in the constitution: “The objects of the fraternity shall be to serve as a means of awarding
distinction to those of high scholarship in physics, to promote interest in the advanced study of the subject, to stimulate
and to encourage a spirit of cooperation and friendship among those who have displayed marked ability in this study.”

When football men at the University of Mississippi go around “booing,” it’s not to razz. They voted Bing Crosby as
their favorite radio star not long ago.

PROF. PFOHL PRAISES GARBER’S ABILITY TO PUT COLOR IN MUSIC

Considers It the Best of Old Type with Many Classical Features

“Jan Garber has a very fine musical organization,” were the words with which Prof. Pfohl expressed his praise of the
orchestra that the Pan-Hellenic Council has secured to play for the Mid-Winter dances. Prof. Pfohl added that he was pleased
to see dance orchestras of this type coming to Davidson. He stated that, judging from Garber’s radio programs, his music
was not the old type jazz but a combination of the best in the old type with many features of
classical music. According to Prof. Pfohl, Garber shows his superiority over most dance orchestras by his ability to put a
great deal of color into his music. Prof. Pfohl’s opinion on this subject was sought because of his wide knowledge
of music and because he is head of the Davidson music department. He quickly added his approval to that of
the student body which has already been shown.

Around Town

The Tuesday Club met last Tuesday afternoon at the home of Mrs. Heath Whittle for the purpose of deciding on
one of the features of its constitution.

Dr. and Mrs. Charles Pratt of Louisville, Ky., arrived in Davidson on Thursday to stay until the flood waters subside
in their hometown. They are the guests of Mr. and Mrs. Heath Whittle.

Miss Mable Thomlison of Smithfield has returned to her home after visiting her sister, Mrs. Donald Hobart.

Mrs. J. Moore McConnell is in the hospital in Charlotte because of trouble which she has been having recently with
her eyes.

Mr. and Mrs. Joe McConnell of New York City visited in Davidson for a short while last week.

Miss Mary Young, who has been in the hospital in Charlotte for the past two weeks, is now back at
her home in Davidson.

The Twentieth Century Club met at the home of Mrs. Gowan Dusenbury last week. Mrs. O. J. Thies gave the
paper for the meeting.

Organ, Piano Recital Held By the Pfohls

Mrs. Pfohl played the organ and James Christian Pfohl played the piano respectively, in a recital in the First Presbyterian
Church of Wilmington last Tuesday evening. Their program consisted of organ numbers (by Mr. Pfohl), piano numbers (by Mrs. Pfohl),
and some other pieces combining both instruments played by both musicians. The recital was under the auspices of the Thursday
Morning Music Club of Wilmington, N. C.

College Museum Developed By Dr. W. L. Porter Contains Many Curios

MONEY DISPLAY ADDED

Geology and Forest Tree Exhibits of Interest

Have you ever visited the College Museum? Just in case you have not, here's a chance to get a painless
liberal education by a short visit to the second floor of the north wing in Chambers Building. Here, in the
sanctum of Dr. W. L. Porter, professor of Geography, one may find everything from Assyrian cuneiform tablets to mounted specimens
of butterflies. These tablets are made of clay and tell a story of market transactions 2000 years ago in ancient
Nineveh.

On the wall now hangs a display of paper money printed by the various state governments before and during the
Civil War, one of the more recent additions to the museum collection. This group includes bills issued by North Carolina,
Georgia, Alabama, and several other states in various denominations, ranging in face value from five cents up to two dollars.
Just recently, the skeleton of an Indian fruit bat was placed on display. This strange animal is a native of
the tropical regions of the Old World and, because of its peculiar appearance, is often called a “flying fox.” The
skeletal structure of the creature is very similar to that of the human body, the chief difference being in the
arrangement of the various bones which compose the limbs.

There are several other interesting groups, especially those models illustrating various phenomena found in the study of geology and the
group of cross-sections showing the structure of forest trees.

Symphonic Band to Be Feature Radio Series

Beginning February the ninth, the Davidson College Symphonic Band began presenting a series of interesting and varied programs. These Davidson
College Radio Programs are scheduled for Tuesday evenings every week until the end of this term, and the time is
from 10:30 to 11:00 P.M., E.S.T., over Station WBT, Charlotte, N. C. The series are to be under the direction
of James Christian Pfohl, Davidson College’s most able music head, who has shown such a great deal of ingenuity and
capability in working with the football band during the past season and whose musical ability is of much renown. The
president of the Davidson student body, Wilbur Edwards, will serve as announcer and Tyler Port, of the Davidson Forensic Council,
will bring news of the Davidson campus.

The Gamma Phi Betas at Oregon State College had to seat their “rushed ones” on planks stretched across sawhorses because
the house was being remodeled at the time.

—MALLORY HATS—

The Only Hats That Are “Cravenette” Moisture-Proof

Feather in the Breeze

That’s the way your hat will feel if it’s our “Nok-a-Bout” by Mallory. The lightest, airiest, crush-proof hat with the
exclusive Mallory water-shrunk custom edge. $4.00.

J. B. IVEY & CO.
