Page Two The Davidsonian | Founded By the Class of 1915

1936 Member 1937
Associated Collegiate Press
Distributors of Collegiate Digest
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON Ave, New York, N.Y.
San Francisco + Chicago + Boston + Los Angeles

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879.

DICK VOWLES .......... Editor-in-Chief
CHARLES MOORE ........ Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
Fitzhugh Dade ........ Assistant Editor
Ove Bell ............. Managing Editor
Joe Calvin ........... Managing Editor
Wesley Coghill ....... Managing Editor
Terrell Porter ........ Managing Editor
Perry Sloan .......... Managing Editor
Bill Marquess ......... Sports Editor
Owen Coake .......... Associate Editor
Sam Cothran ......... Associate Editor
Euclid Fant .......... Associate Editor
Hector McGeachy ...... Associate Editor
Yates Faison ......... Associate Editor
Sam Ryburn .......... Art Editor
Howe Baker .......... Movie Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
Andy Turner .......... Collection Manager
J.R.S.M. Latimer ...... Advertising Manager
Bill Miller ........... Advertising Manager
Wesley Coghill ....... Circulation Manager
Terry Porter ......... Circulation Manager
Sam Hemphill ........ Assistant Business Manager

We should give as we would receive, cheerfully, quickly, and without hesitation; for there is no grace in a benefit
that sticks to the fingers. - Seneca

Fall Services...
It is indeed a rare privilege we enjoy this week in having Dr. Donald Grey Barnhouse in our midst to
conduct the annual Fall Services. A former aviator during the World War, later a college professor, and finally a minister
of the gospel, Dr. Barnhouse has traveled the world over in the cause of Christ. Out of the depth and
richness of his own religious experience has he been causing us to take spiritual inventory of ourselves. It is with
a genuine feeling of thankfulness to him that we look on these few days spent together in the consideration of
things eternal. Men, shall we not think over carefully the claims of God’s spiritual laws upon our everyday lives in
this Christian institution?

At Football Games...
Be it said to the great honor of the name of Davidson College and to the credit of its controlling
authorities, the public may be assured of one thing when it attends football games on Richardson Field. It will not
see acres of drunken spectators lying out on the edges of the woods, nor, for that matter, will the public
see conspicuous evidences even of moderate drinking. This fool habit has apparently just about been stopped by the authorities of
the institution who for the past few years have requested spectators through a public address system to desist from drinking
while in the stadium. This announcement of request and statement of policy on the part of the Davidson administration coming
just prior to the kick-off in games in its stadium has apparently worked to the end for which it was
intended. Drinking at football games, moderate or excessive, is to be deplored and denounced and destroyed to whatever extent is
possible. There are always a vast majority of people attending these events who disapprove of all drinking and who especially
dislike to be harassed either by the tomfoolery of stimulated Smart-Alecks and who, above all things else, are frequently enraged
and outraged alike by those who have forgotten to count the number of times they have hit the bottle. Out
of decent respect for the majority of decent people, the authorities of all institutions promoting these events should go to
every possible limit to discourage the use of intoxicants at football games. It would in no sense be out of
place for these executives of college and university generally in North Carolina to follow the good example of those at
Davidson whose very friendly, courteous and gentlemanly approach to this issue appears to have brought its harvest of victory against
these common vulgarities. It has always been a mystery to us, anyway, that anybody should go to see a football
game and then get so blindly drunk that they couldn’t see the Empire State Building if it was standing on
their toes. —Charlotte Observer.

Compulsory Chapel...
A recent plea for voluntary chapel attendance voiced in “The Johnsonian,” Winthrop College news organ, made us cast a reflection
or two in the direction of our chapel period. A Davidson College senior said, “I believe our chapel is in
reality the spirit of the school.” Although that may be a rather broad statement, there seems to be a great
deal of truth in it. We may gripe about this and argue about that, but, whether we realize it or
not, we have something in our daily chapel period. In the first place, the fifteen minute intermission from classes is
a welcome break in the routine of study. The short service offers an opportunity for relaxation. Then, the short scripture
reading and prayer CAN mean a great deal, whether it does or not, to every student. In the announcements and
pep-talks a spirit seems evident, which, although it may evidence itself in general rowdiness at times, seems to be the
true Davidson spirit. Maybe we do not always enter into the spirit of chapel as we ought. Perhaps we fail
to get the full benefit of such a service. Let’s think a little about it. Let other institutions do away
with their compulsory chapel if they can, but it shouldn’t be any burden to us. On the other hand, we
ought to try to get the utmost from it.

Taxes on Sports Events...
A new definition of football has appeared. It is a “function essential to governmental functioning” and appears in the protest
of a number of colleges against the federal admission taxes on sports events. The colleges contend that by this definition,
the 10 per cent tax is unconstitutional. With the football season already upon him Secretary of the Treasury Morgenthau is
preparing to take the issue to the Supreme Court.

One out of every three boys and girls who finished high school last year, will be on a college campus
this fall, experts at the federal office of education have figured. Better economic conditions have been generally credited with the
upward swing, and in some instances applications for admission have been rejected for lack of room.

With The Staff
We are convinced that every true football fan who was fortunate enough to see the Wildcats scrap the Blue Devils
last Saturday went home with thoughts of Teeny Lafferty and the nerve-racking goal line defense of the ‘Cats. There was
one morose individual on Richardson Field, however, who had previously described Teeny’s three touchdown exhibition in the Erskine game with
yawns and impatient sighs throughout his story (which was a sporting news feature, not a column). It is evident that
he still chose not to be impressed with last Saturday's brilliant showing. Maybe this “second ‘Johnny Branch’ who failed to
mature at U. N. C.” has memories that dull his enthusiasm for other stars when he looks over the gridiron
here at Davidson. At least no one could have written a more unemotional account of what appeared to 99 44-100%
of the spectators and opposing players to be talent of All-American Calibre. It is not good to play up a
person too much, but it is disturbing to see one not get the credit he so justly deserves. Speaking of
deserving causes ... Would it not be fine if something could be done to make a week-end on the campus
more enjoyable? At present there is very little incentive to remain on the campus when our teams are on the
road—except doubled cuts and bad weather which are inevitable. An enlarged recreation center has been the answer for many years
and is still years down the list on the centennial building program. Yes, Davidson is growing and daily becoming a
bigger and better institution but may it be a symmetrical, well-rounded growth. This year’s frosh class seems to have gotten
off to a fancy start, but their high I. Q. does not excuse the intolerable acts as they have now
found. The time is passing and they should soon grasp that “old feeling” which prompts in one the spontaneous greeting
of one man to another, the desire to boost Davidson wherever he may be, and the sense of reality in
being an integral part of the widely known DAVIDSON SPIRIT. —PERRY SLOAN.

ABOUT BLACK...
perfect justice supported the nom-
THE DAVIDSONIAN WATER FOR THE FIRST “BUILDING
ling members to surrender immed-
later.
position.
fore the deluge begins...
pan members of the football band
WORLD'S SMALLEST PARK
is a senior
PATION PARK LOCATED ON MUSKINGUM AT OREGON COLLEGE CAMPUS, COVERS LESS THAN 1/500 OF AN ACRE. IT IS THE HOME
OF ONE TREE, THREE STONES AND APPROXIMATELY 209,000 BLADES OF GRASS.

Letters to the Editor
MORE TO BE SAID
their own side, right or wrong.
The questions are deliberately stated so that there is right on both sides. Also there would soon be debate. How
would you like, at the end of a bull-session, for someone to demand a decision on who won?

ABOUT THE CENTENNIAL FUND...
Dear Dick:
While the Davidsonian is discussing the salient topics of the day, it might be well if the students could get
some idea of what is to be done with the money which was pledged last spring. At the time the
students were beingcanvassed, name of Mr. Black, but also to! they were told that the money they condone the Ku
Klux Klan. contributed would be used to con- The Davidsonian may have with struct a new infirmary. Work had been
started on this when we came back to school this fall, but Dear Mr. Editor: R.A.T., * * * ad
Supreme Court. No one would de- in the Davidsonian last week the Dear Dick: TEC Soe OT Ths “Rizk” out
of de- ny that. But it could have done fact was revealed that this build- so without printing that odious
ing was made possible through the article from the Florida Alligator. It generosity of one family whose big blaring beautiful
bass bombar- dons WEDNESDAY, OCT. 6, 1937 King For A Day By CHUBBY KING some sort of a squall .
. . Bobby Florence squiring Emma Wren Jones (of shorts fame)... Two red foxes, Bobby Arrowsmith and Wally Tonison admiring
themselves boisterously in mirrors . . . Also again Pi Kappa Phi’s Bob Gish, lately, and have private reckoning: Paul
Cooper, Dick Towell, Ken Certainly glad to hear that Lawson, and friends from Carolina. one third of the red rabble
refused What hotel was Jimmy Cooper to pledge. On second thought, per- in front of at ONE-THIRTY... haps the aforementioned
advice Plunk and Sawyer cabining it on best be ignored ... King’s opinions top of King's Mountain ... Bob always
encounter very definite op- McClellan's girl, Catherine Tony, all the way from Irwin, Tenn. to watch him play ... Faison
still at Shull practice... A Miss Thompson escorted by our editor, Dick Vowles, back early to Queens so the dear
girl might study — a date with Bill Hamilton... By the way, Marian Bryant reports no fresh developments at Queens
... WADE BARROW (the most conspicuous chap I know) got escorts for eleven (11) girls but kept the twelfth and,
some say, the prettiest for himself... Mildly surprised when found out method of apprehending — tank painting culprits was suggested
by a freshman... such a magnificent display of class loyalty. Under the circumstances, would advise offend- A few more plugs
necessary be- An ex- tuba tooter speaking. Don’t ever those guys work like Trojans, and espe- cially the bass horn
players --have no headlines either... a sentimental affection for those... Usta train harder then for Saturday’s burden with the Bass
than now for Saturday's from the Bench. Just remember, those gents labor, I know! seeks matrimony eventually... some reach it
sooner than others... few glory in the pleasures of celibacy... SO patronize Bill Quick at J. O. Jones in Charlotte
— an ex-roommate and a right guy middle-aisle bound. By HENNY B. BAKER Promised Dick Taylor not to...(The following film
ratings, are based mention this... but Enamoring upon those of “Time,” “Movie Mirror,” Dick and Enamored Peggy Cadil- The Digest,”
and local theater adver- lacked it over the mountains by tising augmented by the columnist’s own themselves with Sarah Glenn
and observations). the alphabetical ratings are: A—Ex- Gil Palmer, Lib Anderson and Rob cellent; B—Good; C—Fair; D—Poor. Abell, Sophie Abell
and Dick Wine ters? .. . Boy! did they have fun! Well? incidentally, Palmer, what about this double-dose before breakfast
stuff? Four brilliant skating sequences PHI GAMS PLEDGE SALIS- by Sonja, and a rhythmic routine BURY — glad they pledged
some- skiis are outstanding features body... James K. Dorsett, that of this production. The scene is laid Everybody Your Film
Report Card “THIN ICE” — Sonja Henie and Tyrone Power. Lanifual man, dispensed with at four! a winter resort with
a prince by irate parents of delectable Alice. (Tyrone) and a skating Wright Murphy... Fred Dennis; (Sonja) furnishing the groggy
— from the game... some element. party ... Capering Cooke scamper- ing with elusive Alice Murdock— did closer? Holt Craige’s
thru again — such fidelity... RINNY REID romancing with Betty Bahn- son... Lovely Lasses Nancy Hovis, Jane Wiley, and Jane
Hashagen from Charlotte ... teacher romantic C “BULLDOG DRUMMOND COMES BACK” — John Howard, Louise Campbell, and John Barrymore. “Inferior
to previous Bulldog- ings,” says The Digest. The same type of Drummond story with its thrilling moments. The picture as
a whole seems to lack the superior acting of Ronald Colman who has played the part of Drummond heretofore. *
* * “WIFE, DOCTOR, NURSE” Loretta Young, Warner Baxter and Virginia Bruce. “The same old triangle with an amazingly fresh
version,” say the critics in Time. A serious situation develops when a young doctor's wife thinks that her husband is
in love with his nurse. The unraveling of this affair furnishes very amusing entertainment. * * * C “ONE MILE
FROM HEAVEN"—Claire Trevor and Sally Blane. This is a serious type of picture which is centered around a small child
that is claimed by two mothers. One brought the child into the world, and the other fought the world in
order to keep it. “Davidson Men get to know the Men’s store that College Men. worsteds — in the new
patterns you are asking for... Warm, wooly sweaters, leather jackets and sporty slacks for the campus... evening wear, Even good
week-ends ... You'll find everything you want on our main floor or in the “VARSITY SHOP” on the second floor,
“THE BEST LOOKING TIES IN TOWN” 106-108 West Trade Street Mellon’s Charlotte, N. C. specializes in styles for Sporty tweeds
and cheviots; dressy Dinner Jackets and Tails for looking luggage for those verything you want on our main floor or
in the “VARSITY SHOP” on the second floor, “THE BEST LOOKING TIES IN TOWN” 106-108 West Trade Street Mellon’s Charlotte,
N. C.
