Page Four THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, DEC. 1, 1937

Davidson Selects All-State Sports Afield Football Announced Schedule

Kappa Sigs, Play Finals Winner Will Tie Phi Delts For Championship

With a tie for the inter-fraternity championship at stake, the Kappa Sigs and the Phi Gams played to a scoreless tie Monday afternoon for the third time this season, both teams having three first downs.

The game went into extra innings after the scheduled game had resulted in a tie, but again in the extra period neither team gained a single first down each.

Late in the second quarter with a sluggish first half in which the only feature was a sensational catch by George Jones, Phi Gam end who played one of the best games on the field, for the only first down of the half, both teams came back strong in the second half and the whistle found the Kappa Sigs in possession of the ball on the Phi Gam six-inch line.

The game was close, very close, and the result was probably a just comparison of the two teams. Jimmie Hogg’s passing was the highlight of the fray and Apple Means made two spectacular catches for first downs, while Jones and Reid stood out for the purple-clad Phi Gams.

In what was the best game of the past week, the Phi Gams turned back the SPE’s 6-0, scoring on a pass to George Jones. Although the Sig Eps fought hard all the way, the Phi Gams apparently had the situation in hand all the way, piling up a comfortable margin in first downs. Immediately after this game, the Kappa Sigs eked out a 2-0 victory over the Pikas in a mediocre game marred by the cold weather. The break that decided the game came when Ralph Monger, who otherwise played a good game, allowed a snap from center to go out of the end zone for an automatic safety.

Phi Delts Win

In another close game last Saturday, the Phi Delts tripped Yates Faison’s golden-clad tornado, 6 to 0. The only score was made by Lee Ogburn on a short pass from Lock Hunter after the Phi Delts had capitalized on an interception to march deep into the SAE territory.

The play-off yesterday between the Phi Gams and the Kappa Sigs marked the end of the season's round-robin tourney.

Matmen Begin

Varsity wrestling practice started Monday, and Coach Parks Harrison is quite pleased over the prospects for this year’s wrestling team. There are six lettermen back from last year’s team. The boys have come out enthusiastically, and all the candidates are eager to wrestle this year.

The lettermen are: “Skinny” Lowrance in the 126-pound class, Joe Craver in the 135, “Baby” Fort in 145, Ed Ellis in the 165, Jim Wilson in the 175, and Howard McFadyen in the unlimited. There is a need for a man in the 118-pound class, as there is no prospect in sight. “Stinky” Bailey and Graham McFadyen will probably have to fight it out for the 155-pound class.

The prospects for the freshman wrestling team appear brighter than they have been in many years. Bobby Williams, Fred Lowrance, Ed Whisnant, and John Donaldson won medals in intra-mural matches, and Bruce Kenney and Joe Wilson are showing promise.

Writer Pokes Fun

(Continued from page three)

Only the best musicians might be mistaken for store-keepers. The best chemists look for sports. If we can’t get intelligent people from our colleges, we ought to close the colleges. And I think it could help a lot toward this end to smack all that is collegiate out of freshmen before they are a week old.

Davidsonian All-State Team

This is the annual selection of the All-State football team as selected by the Davidsonian Sports Department, Andy Dale, Neal Scott, Bobby Williams, and Bob Wood.

First Team
Position
BERSHAK (Carolina) - End
BRUNANSKY (Duke) - Tackle
LIPSCOMB (Duke) - Guard
PURDY (Davidson) - Center
BADGETT (Duke) - Guard
BARTOS (Carolina) - Tackle
WILLIAMS (Davidson) - End
LAFFERTY (Davidson) - Quarterback
BERLINSKI (N. C. S.) - Halfback
LITTLE (Carolina) - Halfback
TIPTON (Duke) - Fullback

Second Team
TATUM (N. C. S.) - End
YORK (Duke) - Tackle
WRENN (Carolina) - Guard
HILL (Duke) - Center
WOODSON (Carolina) - Guard
WARDEN (Davidson) - Tackle
HUDGINS (Duke) - End
HACKNEY (Duke) - Quarterback
BURNETTE (Carolina) - Halfback
WIRTZ (Wake Forest) - Halfback
DITT (Carolina) - Fullback

HONORABLE MENTION: Ends—Iverson (Dav.); Kline (U.N.C.); Fisher (Duke); Tackles—Maronie (U.N.C.); Pate (W.F.); Helms (N.C.S.); Graham (Dav.); Guards—Hill, Johnston (Dav.); Hines (N.C.S.); Evans (W.F.); Centers—Mumford (W.F.); Adams (U.N.C.); Mark (N.C.S.); Backs—Dennis, Bolin (Dav.); O'Mara, MacAfee, Spangler (Duke); Rooney, Sands, Murphy (N.C.S.); Eustler, Fuller (W.F.); Watson, Kraynick, Stirnweiss (U.N.C.).

Coach Harrison Loses Battle Royal

Blue, Lowrance, Craver, Parker, and Fort Unite to Pin Referee

As a grand finale to the intra-mural wrestling program on last Tuesday night, there was staged a battle royal for the entertainment of the fans. Participating in the bout were five of last year’s lettermen: Bob Blue, 117 pounds; “Skinny” Lowrance, 127 pounds; Joe Craver, 137 pounds; Charlie Parker, 147 pounds; and “Baby” Fort, 157 pounds.

Fort, as master of ceremonies, called all the boys into the center of the mat to give instructions. He was enjoying himself immensely when all of a sudden “Skinny” Lowrance, the boy with the big heart, felt sorry for the referee and started a riding hold on “Skinny” Lowrance. Tenaciously held there until the mighty hands of “Coach” Fort dislodged him from his perch and threw him to the mat. Craver and Blue met the same fate.Group of tumblings and flips by Cat Grunters End Tourney as they catch each other that would put “Tip” Harrison Holt in mid-mat, and Elmore to mural Wrestling lehame. The fall intramural wrestling tournament was finished on Nov. 23 with seven champions being crowned. After the regular matches were over, there was a battle royal with five contestants. Bob Williams defeated Spicer by a fall after one minute and twenty-six seconds of wrestling. 

In the 120-pound class, Ed Whisnant, who had previously defeated Moore by a fall, beat L. S. Fisher with a time of five minutes and two seconds. In the 118-pound class, there were eight entrants. In the first round, Lowrance defeated Gildersleeve, Bruce Kenney beat Parrish, Wilson got a judge’s decision over Telford, and Woodward beat Latta. The second round saw Kenney lose to Lowrance on a rather close time advantage, and Wilson beat Woodward. In the finals, Lowrance got a four-minute, eleven-second advantage over Joe Wilson.

Bob Bailey won in the 145 lb. class by beating Brandon and Walker. Donaldson won the 155 lb. division with a five-minute, fifty-two-second victory over McFadgen. Louis Hipp defeated Bob Barker by a fall and took the 165 lb. class title. In the heavyweight class, McClain beat Miller with a fall in three minutes, five seconds. The five men who were in the "battle royal" were Leonard Fort, Charley Parker, Joe Craver, Bob Blue, and Skinny Lowrance. This so-called battle dragged along for a while but finally livened up when all the contestants grabbed Parks Harrison, the referee.

In the first match of the evening, Bob Williams defeated Spicer by a fall after one minute and twenty-six seconds of wrestling. In the 120-pound class, Ed Whisnant, who had previously defeated Moore by a fall, beat L. S. Fisher with a time of five minutes and two seconds. In the 118-pound class, there were eight entrants. In the first round, Lowrance defeated Gildersleeve, Bruce Kenney beat Parrish, Wilson got a judge’s decision over Telford, and Woodward beat Latta. The second round saw Kenney lose to Lowrance on a rather close time advantage, and Wilson beat Woodward. In the finals, Lowrance got a four-minute, eleven-second advantage over Joe Wilson.

Bob Bailey won in the 145 lb. class by beating Brandon and Walker. Donaldson won the 155 lb. division with a five-minute, fifty-two-second victory over McFadgen. Louis Hipp defeated Bob Barker by a fall and took the 165 lb. class title. In the heavyweight class, McClain beat Miller with a fall in three minutes, five seconds. The five men who were in the "battle royal" were Leonard Fort, Charley Parker, Joe Craver, Bob Blue, and Skinny Lowrance. This so-called battle dragged along for a while but finally livened up when all the contestants grabbed Parks Harrison, the referee.

Twenty-nine men on the freshman football squad earned their numerals this year. After many hours of strenuous practice and a hard schedule of five games, the boys have at last obtained their coveted numerals. The following boys made their numerals: Bill Snelling, John King, Bill Ward, Jack Spainhour, Tom Cauble, Joe Moore, Tom Hemphill, Billy Pharr, Jim Wallin, Bob Johnson, Winston Taylor, Hank Bahnson, Tyson Beaty, McLesky, Scott Cooper, Frank Nevin, Bill Sigmon, Leith Garrou, Bob Bailey, and others.

The schedule remains the same as this year except for the fact that the Cats will play The Citadel in place of Harvard and Centre. As in the past, Davidson meets State in Greensboro or Raleigh.

Shaw Smith, Davidson's magical performer in arts, has applied for membership in the International Brotherhood of Magicians and is waiting for the approval of the application. Smith will give his first public performance this season in the Cornelius High School Friday afternoon at 2:00, for the benefit of the high school students there. Bob Balsley will act as his assistant. Smith’s stage name is “Colin the Magician,” and he has already gained a lot of experience under this pseudonym. With Lem Kornegay as assistant, he is now planning a schedule of night performances, including an appearance on the campus sometime in the near future.

The Wildcats lost their final contest of the year to Wake Forest's Demon Deacons. Wirtz led Wake Forest to victory by scoring two touchdowns over the Wildcats. The Davidson varsity opened cage practice with good prospects for the season as men reported for practice. The team this year is a mystery five, the success of which depends on how well reserves and rising sophomores fill the positions left vacant by the graduation of three of last year’s regulars: Captain Bill Quick, Maurice Peabody, and John Blair Armstrong. Practice to date has been interrupted by football and other things, but Coach Shepard expects to get down to hard work this week.

The rules have changed considerably this year and will undoubtedly change the style of play used by hardwood teams. Instead of having a “jump” at the center of the court after a basket has been scored, the team scored upon will take the ball out of bounds. Only two center jumps will take place, one at the beginning of the game and the other at the start of the half.

Boys reported for practice so far are as follows: Reid, Iverson, D. Hicks, Iverson, Tice, Boyd, Wilson, McLean, Harrison, Glenn, Phipps, Tenney, Casali, Ficklen, Scott, and Means.