PROPOSE REVISION OF OLD STUDENT BODY CONSTITUTION DAVIDSON COLLEGE TRUSTEES RECEIVE FINANCIAL REPORT

The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

VOL. XXIV DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FEBRUARY 24, 1937 NO. 18

AGY GHOUato “IDEALS: AS Hs VESPER TITLE

Lacy Officiates at Four Services Here; Offers Vocational Advice

SAYS ALL NEED IDEAL

States Kingdom of God Wisest Ideal For People Now

Dr. Ben R. Lacy, president of Union Theological Seminary in Richmond, Va., was guest minister at the vesper service in
the college chapel last Sunday night. While here, he also preached at the Davidson Presbyterian Church on Sunday morning, spoke
to the Ministerial Band on Sunday afternoon, and led the chapel exercises on Monday morning. He offered to confer with
any men about their life work, particularly those contemplating the ministry.

“Ideals” Is Subject

Dr. Lacy chose “Ideals” as the subject of his vesper talk, and during the course of it he set up
two—Jesus Christ as the ideal person, and the Kingdom of God as the ideal cause. He referred to two passages
of Scripture, dealing with visions, Joel 2:28 and Prov. 29:18. Then, by way of introduction, he advised the students to
cherish the friendships which college life affords an opportunity of making with professors and fellow students.

Two Outlooks

The speaker pointed out that all humans have periods of ecstasy, but that they must return intermittently to the hum-drum
scenes of life. And because of this they, the young people in particular, need two ideals constantly before them—an ideal
person and an ideal cause. He showed that most parents try to create the correct type of ideal person in
their children by reading them heroic stories of good men. Also, people constantly add to this ideal as they view
paintings or statues, or read great books. Real persons exert a great influence in the forming of this ideal. Dr.
Lacy said that in Jesus Christ everything could be found, that he was the only real ideal, and that people
should carry a picture of Him on their hearts and continually apply themselves to His standards.

In conclusion, Dr. Lacy expressed disappointment in the numbers of students who are planning to enter such fields as teaching
or the ministry, as compared to the number entering business, law, medicine, etc. Too great a proportion are interested in
the bodies of men rather than the minds and souls of men, he said. Then he added a sort of
challenge and a bit of advice: “I commend to you the cultivation of your visions and the setting up of
ideals that will challenge all of your hearts and minds.”

CHAMBERS WILL BE SCENE AS SENIORS STAGE MOCK TRIAL

J. O. Branton to Be Tried Tonight as Part of R. O. T. C. Course

TRIAL IS ANNUAL EVENT

Port Will Prosecute and McClelland Defend

Lieutenant J. O. “Buddy” Branton faces trial tonight at 7:30 in Chambers Building. Lieut. Branton has been accused of willful
disobedience to his superior officer, Lieut.-Col. John T. Rhett, of disrespect toward him, of evasion of duty on pretense of
illness, and of leaving the classroom to which he had been ordered for duty without proper permission. Brought before the
military court martial, the culprit will be given a hearing, and will be found guilty or not guilty.

Cadet Lieut.-Col. Jack Branch will act as president of the court. The charges against the accused will be prosecuted by
Trial Judge Advocate Capt. Tyler Port, who will be helped by his assistants, Capt. Roy Bigham and Capt. Ken Scott.
Lieut. John Winn will act as Law Member of the court, and is empowered to pass upon the validity of
all evidence in the case. The defense council, which seeks to support Lieut. Branton, will be headed by Capt. Ralph
McClelland, who will be assisted by Major Wilbur Edwards and Capt. Ed Finley. The reporter for the court will be
Lieut. Dave Sellars; Capt. Joe Hunter will serve as guard; and Lieut. Jim Johnston will act as orderly. After all
evidence of the case has been presented the fate of Lieut. Branton will rest in the hands of the court
members who will render the verdict. All senior officers of the battalion will act as members of the court. Major
Ballard has instructed the seniors in the subject.

The Rev. J. B. Green Next Vesper Speaker

The Rev. J. B. Green is to speak at Vesper Services next Sunday evening, February 28th. He will bring with
him wide experience as a minister and educator, and recent experience as an author. Dr. Green holds many degrees from
various southern colleges, and for twelve years was trustee of Presbyterian College of South Carolina. He was ordained into the
Presbyterian ministry in 1901, and from then until 1921 was pastor of churches in Tennessee and South Carolina. In that
year he became professor of systematic theology at Presbyterian Theological Seminary in Columbia, S. C.

Figures compiled by a reporter at Oregon State College indicate that 10,800 pounds of English instructors at that institution climb
74 steps daily.

Cumming and Goldiere Made Full Professors

Dr. William P. Cumming was made full professor of English and Dr. Augustin V. Goldiere was made full professor of
French last week by the board of trustees when they convened for their annual meeting.

Dr. Cumming is a Davidson alumnus and a member of the class of 1921. He received the degree of Bachelor
of Arts here with a major in English. After graduating from Davidson Dr. Cumming attended the Graduate School of Princeton
University where he received the degrees of Master of Arts and Doctor of Philosophy in 1922 and 1925 respectively.

Dr. Goldiere did his undergraduate work at Dartmouth College, graduating in 1920 with majors in Latin and French. After two
years at Yale he came to Davidson as a Spanish teacher. In 1927 he was granted a leave of absence
and returned to Yale Graduate School where he received the degree of Master of Arts in 1928. Dr. Goldiere worked
in the field of the Romance Languages to obtain his M. A. He then returned to Davidson and continued his
duties until another leave of absence two years ago allowed him to again study at Yale, from which he secured
the degree of Doctor of Philosophy in 1936.

Dr. Goldiere is active as a faculty member of the honorary French fraternity, Le Cercle Francais. Dr. Cumming is a
member of Phi Beta Kappa, honorary fraternity and also a member of Phi Gamma Delta, social fraternity. Dr. Cumming is
a leader of Sigma Upsilon, honorary literary fraternity. Dr. Goldiere is a native of New England, but now considers his
home to be here at Davidson.

CHARLOTTE PHYSICIAN, MEDICAL MISSIONARY LECTURE AT DAVIDSON

Dr. R. M. Wilson, of Korea, and Dr. Addison Brenizer Are Speakers

ILLUSTRATE BY SLIDES

Leprosy and Surgery Are Topics of Talks

Alpha Epsilon Delta, national pre-medical fraternity, was exceedingly fortunate last week in hearing lectures presented by two doctors engaged in
different fields of work. On Thursday night in the faculty room Dr. R. M. Wilson talked on leprosy and the
leper work in Korea. Dr. Wilson is a medical missionary to that country, where he is head of the largest
and most famous leper colony in the world. He illustrated his lecture with slides showing people in various stages of
the disease and told the students about the best method of cure and some recent discoveries made along that line.
There is a tremendous percentage of leprosy in Korea. Dr. Wilson’s colony is always crowded to overflowing and there is
a long waiting list of sufferers who want to get in.

Dr. Addison Brenizer, a native of Charlotte and one of the most prominent surgeons of the south, presented a lecture
of extreme interest to those students preparing for surgery. Illustrating his talk with both slides and moving pictures, Dr. Brenizer
spoke about operations to cure various malformations of the human body, such as harelip, cleft palate, etc. The public was
invited to both of these lectures and a good crowd was present.

WORLD FAMED MOVIE WILL BE SHOWN HERE

“La Maternelle” Sponsored By French Group

La Maternelle, the world masterpiece of cinematic art and the triumph of realism on the screen will be shown at
Davidson Theater under the sponsorship of Le Cercle Francais, this Friday at 1 P. M. La Maternelle, produced in France,
was brought to New York in 1935 and was hailed by instantaneous and overwhelming approval by the American dramatic critics.
Vanity Fair, American theatrical paper, picked it as the best picture of the world for 1936. Among the critics praising
it were Fannie Hurst and Edna Ferber and Conde Nast who hailed it as a great masterpiece. This cinema, although
having the scene laid in France and with the principals and dialogue French, transcends national borders and becomes a cinema
with universal appeal. The picture has a simple plot. It is a glimpse into the daily lives, hardships and schemes
of “The Children of Montmartre,” a poor section of Paris. The main part of the cast are urchins of Paris,
who lend realism to the picture. La Maternelle has been given in the main countries of the civilized world. It
has been presented in England, Germany, Holland, Hungary, Sweden and Japan. At its first run in New York it ran
25 weeks and is now on a return engagement there.

ROTC Pictures Taken

Work on the Quips and Cranks moved a step nearer completion when the pictures of the R. O. T. C.
unit were taken on last Friday, February 19. The various units were moved into a line of squads, and six
pictures were snapped by the enterprising photographer editor, Jack Abernathy.

The pride of California’s chamber of commerce, lazy sunny weather, has been called “poor cultural background for students” by Prof.
Raymond G. Gettell of the political science department at the University of California.

Edwards Introduces Revised Constitution

Wilbur Edwards, president of the Davidson student body, presented the newly revised constitution to a meeting of the students following
the chapel period on last Friday morning, February 19. This revision of the constitution of the student government of Davidson
College was prompted because of the realization of the need that it be brought up to date by incorporating the
amendments which have been added in rather haphazard fashion and arranged in a logical and more convenient order. The new
constitution will be brought up before the student body on next Monday, March 1, for discussion and voting. More details
will be found on page 3 of this issue.

CORRECTIONS OF THE ERRORS IN COPIES OF REVISED CONSTITUTION MADE AND ANNOUNCED

Several Errors Found in Mimeographed Copies Given to Student Body

The following sections from the revised constitution should read thus, correcting errors in the mimeographed copies circulated among the members
of the student body:

“Article VII, Section 6 Every student found guilty of violating any section of this article shall be dismissed from college.

“Article VIII, Section 12. Every student found guilty of violating Sections 2, 3, 4, 5 shall be dismissed from college.

“Section 13. Every student dismissed from college by theStudent council shall be required to leave the campus twenty-four hours.” Article
IX should be headed “Student Council.” “Article IX, Section 4. Three members of the old council, namely the retiring president,
the president of the senior class, and one other senior member, to be chosen by the old council, shall be
retained, and sit with the new council at all meetings between the time the new council is inducted into office
and the end of the college year. These three men, acting as representatives of the graduating class, shall have the
same status as the members of the new council. “Article XI, Section 2. This group shall be composed of eight
members: four seniors, two juniors, and two sophomores. These men shall be appointed by the president of the student body
in conference with the senior members of the student council within fifteen days after the election of the new student
council. No member of the student council shall be a member of the court of control. “Section 3. The officers
chosen from the eight members of the court shall be: First, a judge whose duty it shall be to preside,
to maintain order, to see that each case is given fair and careful consideration, and to call special meetings whenever
the occasion demands. Second, a recorder who shall keep an accurate record of all the proceedings of the court. In
the constitution, Section 8 should read as follows: “Section 8. When the president of the student body deems it wise
to amend or revise the By-laws, he shall appoint a committee for this purpose, revise or amend it himself, or
have a revision or amendment made in any other way in accordance with parliamentary procedure. The revised By-laws or amendments
shall be presented to the student body for passage. The revised By-laws shall be voted on section by section.” It
is suggested that these corrections be inserted in the mimeographed copies for reference in discussion and voting.

NEW MAGAZINE ISSUE DISPLAYS WINNERS OF GIRL FRIEND CONTEST
Scripts ’n Pranks Will Appear March 20, Announces Overton
TO BE ABRIDGED EDITION
Issue Scheduled For May Centennial

The third issue of Scripts ’n Pranks will make its appearance on the campus on or about next March 20,
Editor Hal Overton announced Monday. The special feature of this issue of the magazine will be the campus beauty section,
which will contain the prize-winning pictures of the contest for the most beautiful girl’s picture in Davidson's dormitories. This issue
of Scripts 'n Pranks will be shorter than usual. Editor Overton says it will contain short stories, cartoons, poetry, articles,
and the “cream of campus jokes.” This issue will be shortened in order that an issue of 48 pages, as
a centennial issue, may be put out in May. The issue will go to press on the 28th of this
month. Sam Ryburn and Dick Vowles will be the upperclassmen furnishing the cartoons for this issue, while Bob Miller of
the freshman class will also contribute. Overton urges all contributions for the March issue of the magazine to be in
his hands before February 28, the deadline.

DR. WHITE LECTURES ON MODERN ALCHEMY
Uses Slides and Blackboard To Illustrate Lecture

Dr. Marsh W. White of Pennsylvania State College gave a lecture on “Twentieth Century Alchemy” in Chambers Auditorium Monday night,
Feb. Although the lecture was of most interest to those students majoring in the sciences, it was given in popular
language, and was interesting to the general public. Dr. White used slides and a blackboard as a means of portraying
more graphically the ideas of his lectures. Dr. White opened his lecture by comparing medieval alchemists to the modern “miracle
workers.” The alchemists of past centuries, who kept up a sort of mystic fraternity, had as their main object either
the transmutation of lead into gold, or the discovery of an “elixir” that would give them long life. He said
that the main difference between the ancients and present-day alchemists is that they sought profit while modern research workers labor
to help the world. Dr. White then explained something about the construction of the different atoms. He explained that though
the size and weight of atoms are extremely small, they have been measured. This was given as a base for
the rest of the lecture, since all of modern alchemy is based on the action of each individual atom, and
its effect on other atoms. Several slides showing devices for producing electric currents of over a million volts were thrown
upon the screen and their operation explained. In 1932, with the aid of 500,000 volts, they threw hydrogen at a
screen of lithium and formed helium, which was a true transmutation. Dr. White closed his lecture with a discussion of
several means of artificial radioactivity, by which neutrons and positrons were discovered.

Make Davidson’s Centennial Program a Big Success.

DEBATERS TO MEET THE UNIVERSITY OF CHARLESTON, THERE
J. D. Allen and Bob Stewart Will Engage Four Teams On Southern Tour
IN CHARLESTON FRIDAY
Initial Home Debate Will Come on March 8

Off to argue heated debates in warmer climes go John Allen and Bob Stewart on the southern trip of the
forensic team as they leave Friday for Charleston, S. C., where they will lock horns with the University of Charleston
team. In all, there are four debates on the tour, the other three being: Rollins College at Winter Park, Fla.,
on March 1; University of Florida at Gainesville, on Saturday, March 6, which will be broadcast over WRUF at 2
P. M.; and Emory University at Atlanta, March 8. They return March 9. The question for all these debates is:
“Resolved, that Congress shall have the power to fix minimum wages and maximum hours in industry.” The debaters have to
be prepared to uphold either side.

Upon the return of this team from the southern trip another leaves for the west. The first home debate will
come March 8 when a University of Florida team comes to argue that “Wealth as well as manpower should be
conscripted in case of war.” Sherrod Rice and J. H. Reisner will uphold the affirmative. They are alternates on the
varsity team. On March 11, Harold Sugg and Port Tyler will meet a Washington & Lee delegation here to contest
the “Hours and Wages” question.

Edwards to Be O.D.K. Convention Delegate

Wilbur Edwards, president of the student body, was elected as delegate to the O. D. K. National Convention, which will
be held at the Atlanta Biltmore Hotel in Atlanta, on April the first through the third. Wade Boggs was elected
alternate delegate in case Edwards would be unable to attend, and Dr. G. R. Vowles will go as faculty adviser.
Mr. F. Le Jackson, who is a member of the O. D. K. National Board, will also be present. Any
other members of this intercollegiate fraternity may attend if they like, but thus far only Ed Armfield and Jack Branch
have given notice of their intention to go, exclusive of Edwards and Boggs.

SEMI-ANNUAL MEETING OF COLLEGE TRUSTEES CONVENED LAST WEEK
Dr. Lingle and F. L. Jackson Make Report on Condition Of College
COMMITTEES APPOINTED
Financial Condition of College Reported Sound

The trustees of Davidson College held their semi-annual meeting Thursday, Feb. 17, in Chambers building, at which time Dr. Walter
L. Lingle, president, and Frank L. Jackson, treasurer, made their reports. Dr. Lingle touched on some of the highlights of
the current scholastic year. The new orientation program for freshmen as tried at the opening of college was described, and
the program of vocational guidance and placement was emphasized. The president outlined the various ways and means by which Davidson
is striving to keep step with educational progress. The selection of ideal professors for Davidson College is becoming more and
more difficult and even now the college is searching for a professor of Political Science and a professor of Chemistry.

Centennial Movement

One of the most interesting divisions of the report was on the program for the Centennial celebration and on the
Centennial movement to raise funds to meet some of the urgent needs of the college. It was decided to have
the Centennial celebration in connection with the Commencement Exercises June 6-8. The program will run about as follows: Sunday, June
6, at 11:00 A. M.—Baccalaureate Sermon, by Dr. Harris E. Kirk of Baltimore, Md.; Sunday, June 6, at 4:30 P.
M.—a concert of Sacred Music; Sunday, June 6, at 8:00 P. M.—An address on Christian Education by Dean Christian Gauss
of Princeton University; Monday, June 7, at 11:00 A. M.—Greetings from Colleges and Universities; Monday, June 7, at 8:00 P.
M.—An Historical Pageant; and Tuesday, June 8, at 10:30 A. M.—Graduation Exercises. Committees which were appointed to carry on the
Centennial movement to gather funds for the college have been steadily at work, procuring plans of the campus and sketches
of buildings. On or about Founder's Day the movement will get under way to interest the Alumni and friends of
Davidson in the Centennial plans.

Financial Report

The financial status of the college was observed to be in excellent condition, with $50,000 added to its assets during
the current fiscal year. Davidson College now has an endowment of approximately $1,013,561, which does not include a five percent
equity in the Duke Endowment which became effective 1925-26. In 1915 the college plant was valued at only $356,074, as
compared with $1,506,600 today. Operating expenses have risen from $47,094 in 1915, to over $300,000 today. Dr. W. P. Cumming,
associate professor of History, was granted a leave of absence for the next academic year to study in England.

French Club Presents Comedies at Colleges

Two comedies were given by Cercle Le Francais, at Coker College yesterday to start off a tour of presenting plays
at three neighboring colleges for girls. One of the dramatic presentations was Le Medecin Malgre Lui (The Doctor in Spite
of Himself), a brilliant satire of the seventeenth century on the medical profession by Molière. Cast for the play is
as follows: Sganarelle, husband of Martine (the doctor in spite of himself), S. D. Crane; Martine, Sganarelle’s wife, R. A.
Torrey; Robert, Sganarelle’s neighbor, J. P. Rostan; Geronde, Lucinde’s father, J. H. Reisner; Lucinde, Geronde’s daughter, Miss Emily Goodrum; Valere
and Lucas, Geronte’s servants, played respectively by J. S. Raynal and L. W. Kornegay; Leandre, Lucinde’s lover, played by O.
V. Armstrong; Thibault, a peasant, Perrin’s father, J. S. Tillotson; Perrin, Thibault’s son, A. S. Cates.

The second play, L’Anglais Tel Qu’on le Parle (English as it is Spoken), is a contemporary Parisian comedy by Tristan
Bernard on the “English spoken” in Parisian shops and its cast includes: Interpreter—Wade Barrow; Julien Cicandel—J. C. Winn; Betty Hogson—F.
S. Poe; Mr. Hogson—J. N. Smith; La Cassiere—J. R. McClelland; the Inspector—H. H. McFadyen; Gendarmes—L. M. Kornegay, Garcon—S. A. Cothran.
An interlude will also be given by the French Club. It concerns the historical incident of Peter Stuart Ney drafting
the Davidson College Seal. This same program will also be presented here and at Winthrop and Converse colleges by the
French Club.
