WEDNESDAY, MARCH 17, 1937 —— THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Three

Society Members Debate Moral Issues at Meeting

Christian Endeavor Society Holds Interesting Discussion Sunday

FAVOR CLEAN DANCING

Majority Believe Sunday Sports Unnecessary

A majority of the members present at a meeting of the Christian Endeavor Society Sunday night agreed that dancing was
not wrong in itself, but that the evils are due to the surroundings of most dances. When people of low
morals assemble to dance, using liquor, it was agreed, the Christian would have no business in going. One member, however,
maintained that dancing is an evil in itself.

The majority agreed that Sunday golf, tennis, and other sports would be entirely unnecessary on the Davidson campus (other places
were not discussed). It was felt that permission to exercise on Sunday was not needed because of the large amount
of time left unrestricted by the college. A minority maintained that students would be more likely to remain on the
campus on Sundays if they were allowed something to do, but it was felt that the real reason for the
exodus of students is the lack of girls on the campus. It was felt in general that Sunday should be
kept a different day as it is on the Davidson campus.

Right and Wrong

These practical applications grew out of a discussion of criteria for determining right from wrong. It was generally agreed that
the hardest decisions come in little things in which there is no clear division between right and wrong. One statement
which was made in a variety of ways was that a thing must be considered wrong if it runs counter
to the beliefs of someone whose character might be affected adversely by seeing it practiced. The group agreed, however, that
a Christian would not be bound to refrain from some reasonable activity like attending a ball game just because one
person disapproved of his going on the grounds that he was attending a place where gambling occurred.

The idea that a Christian conscience should be built up was brought out in contrast to the idea of following
an established principle at all times. Some of the other suggestions were: “Don’t ever permit the good to gain mastery
over the best.” “Don’t ask whether an act is displeasing to God; ask whether it is pleasing to Him.” “Could
Jesus go along?” A last suggestion was the definition of sin used by Dr. Gwynn: “Sin is anything which goes
against an informed conscience.”

She Charges Cruelty

Books and the moods they create are divorcing Jack C. von Bloeker, U. of California student, from his wife. Alleging
that her husband spent all his time studying, Mrs. von Bloeker has filed suit for divorce. She charged cruelty. The
complaint asserted that since their marriage in 1934, von Bloeker has seldom removed his eyes from his texts and has
developed an irritable temper.

J. O. Jones, Inc. Ad

“NEW SUITS NEW SPORT COATS NEW SLACKS NEW SWEATERS

Come in and see our SPRING CLOTHING and FURNISHINGS

YOU’LL ENJOY IT

J. O. Jones, Inc.”

Debate Teams Travel Nation

Hill and Mauze Away Now; Port and Sugg To Make Northern Trip

The Davidson Debating Team sent one pair of debaters on a trip last week, while another pair is to leave
next week. Heywood Hill and Charlie Mauze left on the western trip last Thursday, March 11. On Friday, the 12th,
they debated the University of the South at Sewanee, Tenn.; on Monday, the 15th, they debated Centre College at Danville,
Ky.; and on Tuesday, the 16th, they debated the University of Kentucky at Lexington. They will return the latter part
of this week. Tyler Port and Harold Sugg will leave on the northern trip next Monday, March 22nd. This pair’s
debate will include Washington & Lee, Swarthmore, Lafayette, University of Richmond, and University of Virginia.

ANNOUNCING TRIALS HELD ON SATURDAY

Practice Football Game Serves As Test For Future Broadcasters

Football was in the air last Saturday afternoon on Richardson field. While the Reds and the Grays battled for glory
in the final spring gridiron practice tilt, three would-be Ted Husings were rattling away into the side-line amplifying system in
tests for the regular position of announcer next year. Before the game was underway several men made preliminary tryouts reading
from the script of some exciting football event. From these Coach Shepard and Tyler Port, announcer last season, selected Wade
Barrow, Bill Kiesewetter, and Rutledge Miller as the best prospects. These three were given a taste of actual work, staying
before the microphone one quarter each and giving Coach Shepard an excellent chance to judge them from a realistic test.
There has been no announcement as to the man who will be named regular commentator for next season, although it
is thought that Coach Shepard will make the selection soon.

DR. WALTER LINGLE IS GREENSBORO SPEAKER

Is Guest Preacher At Church Of Covenant

On the past Sunday Dr. W. L. Lingle preached at the Presbyterian Church of the Covenant in Greensboro. The Reverend
Murphy Williams, an alumnus of Davidson College, is pastor of that Church. The Church is located just off the W.
C. U. N. C. campus. Dr. Lingle will address the Executive Committee of the North Carolina Council of Churches in
Greensboro, on Wednesday. This is an interdenominational organization of which Dr. Lingle has been president for the past year. On
Saturday in Winston-Salem, Dr. Lingle will address the State Convention of the Young Men's Christian Association, and on Sunday afternoon
he will talk to the ministerial band of Davidson College.

OLD ARABIAN BIBLE FEATURED IN CURIO DISPLAY IN LIBRARY

Large and Aged Bible Was One Time Property Of Arabian Slave

VOLUME 126 YEARS OLD

Reads From Back to Front In Arabian Script

An Arabian Bible, formerly the property of an Arabian slave owned by John Owen, governor of North Carolina during the
early part of the 19th century, is now being featured in the curio display of the Davidson library. Nearly as
large as a modern pulpit Bible, the old volume, worn and yellow, shows its 126 years of existence. It is
printed in Arabian script, reading from back to front. The history of the Bible and the story of its former
owner lend flavor to the book’s examination. It seems that Moreau—that was the Arab’s name—grew up as a member of
one of the royal tribes of Arabia. Among the occupations he pursued, that of bartering slaves, was the last before
his servitude in America. Through some unexplained incident in his experience, Moreau found himself on the auction block in Charleston.
Moreau escaped and wandered over the state. He was imprisoned at Fayetteville, and because he could speak only Arabian, he
became the object of wonderment there. Governor John Owen happened to visit the jail and became interested in the slave.
He had the man enter his own service, eventually to work up to the highest position among his servants. Because
of the kindness extended by Owen, Moreau became interested in Christianity. Beforehand a devout Mahammedan, Moreau nevertheless was converted after
a serious study of the Christian religion, and joined the Presbyterian church. Desirous of learning more of his new religion,
the Arab asked his master to secure for him a copy of the Bible translated into the Arabian language. This
Owen did with some trouble and expense. Soon after Moreau’s death in 1859, this Bible was given to the Davidson
library.The Davidson library, by descendants of Governor Owen, has remained in the vaults since it was presented. It makes its
way to public inspection from time to time. A copy of the Lord's Prayer, written in Arabian by Moreau, also
appears with the Bible.

Davidson Alumni Have Meeting At Winston

Mr. Fred Smith, Mr. F. L. Jackson, and Coach Gene McEver were guests of the Davidson Alumni group of Winston-Salem
last Friday night. The meeting was held in the First Presbyterian Church of Winston-Salem. There were about 45 Davidson Alumni
present. Prof. John W. Moore, president of the group, presided over the meeting. Mr. M. E. Miller was elected president
to succeed Professor Moore. Mr. Jackson addressed the group using as his subject, “The Financial Status of Davidson College and
its Present Needs.” Coach McEver and Mr. Smith also gave short talks. Coach McEver spoke on “The Growth of Football.”
Mr. Smith chose as his topic, “Davidson's Plans for Its Centennial Celebration in June.”

Newspaperwomen...?

Los Angeles. —(ACP)—“Women do not make bum newspapermen,” writes Barbara Berch in the Junior Collegian of Los Angeles Junior College.

FOR ECONOMICAL STANDARD PRINTING CALL STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY IN CHARLOTTE, N.C. TELEPHONE 727

LOCAL PHYSICS GROUP INDUCTS NEW MEMBERS

Local High School Instructor Among Those Initiated Last Monday

SIX STUDENTS INITIATED

Men Have “A” For Three Semesters in Physics

The Alpha Chapter of Sigma Pi Sigma, national honorary fraternity, held its regular initiation here on Monday, March 15. Six
new members of the sophomore class and one member of the Davidson high school faculty were initiated. Entrance into this
fraternity is given to those men who are interested in Physics and who have attained an average of A for
three semesters in Physics and B for three semesters in mathematics. All of the initiates qualified to the entrance requirements.
Dr. S. C. Lyons of the Davidson College faculty gave a talk, after the initiation, on Color Photography. Other members
of the faculty who were present at the meeting were: Dr. D. M. Douglas, Professor E. F. Fulcher. Members of
the student body who were initiated were as follows: R. N. Aycock, R. B. Benfield, S. T. Anderson, W. A.
Page, G. R. Patterson, E. Talmadge, all of the sophomore class, and H. L. Morrison, instructor of science at Davidson
high school.

More than 200 foreign students are enrolled at Harvard University this year.

SMOKE, YELLS, BOOS GREET PATRONS IN DAVIDSON THEATRE

Cigarette Butts Fly Through Room as Students Enjoy HAVEN OF RELAXATION

Our Students Put On A Show Within a Show

The Davidson theatre, in the opinion of many, is the most popular building in Davidson. If you don't believe this,
just loosen up a bit and attend one of these shows in the afternoon from one to three o'clock. First,
you will be greeted in the show by a cloud of smoke, thick enough to float in, and you will
wonder whether this is the moving picture place or a Smoke House, for Davidson MEN insist that they relax and
enjoy the smoking during the picture. It is one of the few show places in the nation that allows smoking
while a picture is being played. Cigarette butts fly from one end of the room to the other at all
times during the picture. It resembles a dark night on which there are millions of fireflies flying about. But this
is nothing. Yells for a comedy begin and you begin to wonder if a bedlam has broken loose. Boos and
“run it” seems to bring down the roof, but this is chicken feed to what you'll hear if you happen
to get a seat in front of Ed Armfield and Yates Faison, two of Davidson's loyal sons of the show.
They really let out “whoops” and you'll probably (Continued on Page 8)

MILITARY UNIT AIDS IN BURIAL

Junior Officers and Rifle Team Give Military Burial To Ex-Officer

The Davidson College rifle team and the junior officers of the R.O.T.C. were called upon to perform a sad and
mournful task Friday, when they assisted in the burial of an ex-army officer who died last week in Cornelius. The
junior officers acted as pallbearers and carried the body to its last resting place, in the cemetery at Cornelius. The
rifle team was in squad formation beside the grave and at the appearance of the casket, the squad was brought
to present arms, while Sergeant Burton and Springs Pharr paid tribute by the hand salute. Sergeant Burton then took the
United States flag from the casket, folded it, and gave it to the sorrowing wife, who was sitting nearby. There,
among the sorrowing family and friends, the rifle team paid tribute to the man who had served (Continued on Page
8)

Spanish Societies Initiate Members in Joint Meeting

Mrs. Charles Seifert, Local Chapter President, Presides At Meeting

The local chapter of the Sigma Delta Pi, national honorary Spanish fraternity, held a joint meeting with the Davidson Spanish
Club last Wednesday evening at 7:15. The meeting was held in the Sigma Phi Epsilon fraternity house. Mrs. Charles W.
Seifert, who is president of the local chapter of Sigma Delta Pi, presided over the joint meeting. After a short
meeting both clubs held initiation. The Sigma Delta Pi juniors who have been initiated through their excellent work in Spanish
are: Al Bixler, Euclid Fant, “Pete” McKnight, E. L. Palmer, Bruce Parcell, and Dale Shelby. The Spanish Club initiated ten
men from the freshman and sophomore classes who have made fine records in their study of Spanish. They are: James
Ballard, Cage Brewer, W. M. Huston, Jack Holland, F. W. Hughes, Dave McQueen, T. D. Mullis, and Newt (Continued on
Page 7)

Sodas Candies Magazines — Toiletries Stationery

White Drug Company Where Everyone’s Your Friend

Ruby Keeler says: “Luckies are a light smoke that treat a tender throat right”

An independent survey was made recently among professional men and women—lawyers, doctors, lecturers, scientists, etc. Of those who said they
smoke cigarettes, more than 87% stated they personally prefer a light smoke. Miss Keeler verifies the wisdom of this preference,
and so do other leading artists of the radio, stage, screen and opera. Their voices are their fortunes. That’s why
so many of them smoke Luckies. You, too, can have the throat protection of Luckies—a light smoke, free of certain
harsh irritants removed by the exclusive process “It’s Toasted”. Luckies are gentle on the throat.

“In a way, it’s easier to keep in condition as a dancer than as a singer. Exercise can keep the
muscles in shape, but there are a lot of things that can go wrong with the voice and throat. It
stands to reason, then, that any actress wants a cigarette that is gentle and strikes the right note with her
throat. I started smoking Luckies 4 years ago. They’re a light smoke that treat a tender throat right.”

A Light Smoke “It’s Toasted”—Your Throat Protection AGAINST IRRITATION—AGAINST COUGH

Copyright 1937, The American Tobacco Company
