Music By Mellen And Mack Ball To Feature Week-End

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

"Buck" Currie Here To Conduct Y. M. C. A. Three-Day Services

VOL. XXIV DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., MARCH 17, 1937 NO. 21

LAFFERTY SWEPT INTO OFFICE

A. L. CURRIE TALKS IN SPRING SERVICES

Speaker Continues Work on Campus Through Sunday

Wilbur Edwards Vespers STARTED YESTERDAY

"Buck" Is Pastor of Huntington, W. Va., Church

The Rev. A. L. "Buck" Currie, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church in Huntington, W. Va., opened the annual Y.
M. C. A. Spring Services here Tuesday at the chapel period. "Learning To Live From Christ" is the general theme
upon which Rev. Currie is basing his services this week. During the series of six services he intends to show
from example how Christ lived under the various conditions of life as they are still met today.

Christians In Demand

"Christians in Demand," was the subject of the opening service Tuesday morning. Taking as a text—the whole creation groaneth for
the manifestations of the sons of God—he showed how we might show ourselves to be the sons of God in
answer to the world's call to us to supply it with its greatest need—Christians. When the men of old, Simon
Peter, Nathaniel, and John the Baptist saw Jesus they knew he

Pictured above is Wilbur Edwards, who has served efficiently as President of the Student Body during the past school year.
Edwards, who is from Charlotte, has also served as president of the student council during the 1936-37 year.

was the son of God for in him they came face to face with the same virtues which we may
emulate if we desire to live like Christ. They knew Christ for (1) the gracefulness of his goodness, (2) the
dignity he possessed in time of trouble, (3) the spirit he showed as problems of every-day life.

The Rested Heart

"Learn of me and ye shall find rest for your soul," was the text for the service Tuesday evening. Mr.
Currie pointed out that one of the great troubles of our day is trying to keep our hearts against the
wear and tear of the vibration of modern living for this robs us of our greatest spiritual efficiency. How did
Jesus keep his heart? He found rest for his soul because of first, his faith in God's will; second, his
faith in his fellow man, and third his faith in his cross.

(Continued on Page 8)

NEWSPAPER ELECTION TO TAKE PLACE SOON

Cooke, Cothran, Faison, Fant, McGeachy, Vowles Are Nominees For Editor

The student body will cast its annual ballot for the editor of The Davidsonian some time next week following the
election of the Y. M. C. A. officers. Six men, the present managing editors and sports editor of The Davidsonian,
are eligible for the position of editor, succeeding Jim Morton. Those qualified to be voted on are Owen Cooke, Sam
Cothran, Yates Faison, Euclid Fant, Hector McGeachy, and Dick Vowles. All of these men are members of the rising senior
class.

Owen Cooke is a member of Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity, Sam Cothran is on the roll of Le Cercle
Francais and member of Phi Delta. Euclid Fant is photographic editor of The Quips and Cranks and a member of
Kappa Sigma. Yates Faison will manage the varsity football team next year and is a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon.
Hector McGeachy is co-chairman of the Y committee on boys' work, of the Y Cabinet, and a member of Kappa
Sigma. Dick Vowles is a managing editor of Scripts and Pranks and a member of Sigma Phi Epsilon. These Davidsonian
elections will probably begin at the first of next week and end before spring holidays.

COUNTESS TO LECTURE HERE

Daughter of Leo Tolstoy To Speak on Russian Revolution

TO BE HERE MARCH 22

This Will Be Last Lecture of Current Season

Countess Alexandra Tolstoy, daughter of Count Leo Tolstoy, the great Russian novelist, has been secured by the lecture committee to
speak here Monday evening, March 22. Countess Tolstoy will speak on the subject: "Tolstoy and the Russian Revolution." She is
a very popular lecturer, and her appearances have drawn large crowds. This is her first tour of the south as
a lecturer.

The lectures are free, and everyone is invited, both the student body and the general public. The lecture committee announces
that this will be the last in the series of lectures that have been presented during the year. Due to
the illness of Professor Prodoehl, of Birmingham-Southern, his lecture was cancelled.

MUSIC GROUPS ARE HEARD IN CHARLOTTE AND SPARTANBURG

Kiwanis Club of Charlotte Hears Glee Club and Orchestra

HAVE LUNCH AS GUESTS

Quartet Also Renders Several Selections

The Davidson College Glee Club and Little Symphony Orchestra left Thursday morning, March 11, for a tour consisting of two
programs. At the Chamber of Commerce in Charlotte the Kiwanis Club heard these organizations on the program of their regular
weekly luncheon. The orchestra played four numbers, while the Glee Club was heard in one group of sacred numbers and
a group of spirituals.

In Spartanburg

The journey was continued and they arrived in Spartanburg, S. C., about five o'clock, where they gave a concert in
the chapel of Converse College. At 8:30 P. M., the following program was heard: The Glee Club first sang three
sacred numbers: "O Holy Father," by Palestrina; "Bless the Lord, O My Soul" by Ippolitoff-Ivanoff; and "Lo! A Voice to
Heaven" by Bortiansky. As an encore, "Guide Me, O Thou Great Jehovah" was sung. Kenneth Scott then played two solos,
"Jesu, Joy of Man's Desiring," by Bach and "Tarantelle" by Denne. He also received an encore. The Glee Club sang
"Cornfield Melodies" by Gates and "Climb Up, Ye Children," negro spiritual. "Parade of the Wooden Soldiers" was given as another
encore.

Orchestra Plays

The orchestra was then heard in "The Little Sandman" by Brahms; "Invitation to the Dance" by von Weber; and "The
Voice of Spring" by Strauss. As an encore Strauss' "Pizzicato Polka" was played. The Glee Club's final group consisted of
the Russian folk song, "The Volga Boat Song;" Cain's "Come to Me in My Dreams;" and Manna-Zucca's "Love Life." Their
final encore was the successful novelty, "Johnnie Schmoker," a German folk tune. The program was concluded by the Glee Club
and Orchestra combining in Ketelby's "In a Monastery Garden" and the singing of "O, Davidson!"

The quartet, composed of J. D. Allen, Paul Hudson, W. R. Laws, and C. M. Ramseur, received an ovation with
their two numbers, "My Little Banjo" by Dichmont and "Mrs. Winslow's Soothing Syrup" by Harrington, and as an encore gave
"When Huba Plays the Tuba Down in Cuba."

Students Give Opinion On Sunday Athletic Question

The last several weeks have seen discussions that question ever the Davidson student, that question of playing golf and tennis
on Sunday afternoons on the Davidson campus. Starting from a letter published in Campus Comments two weeks ago, the college
regulation concerning Sunday sports has been debated fully pro and con. So your reporter steps out again, notebook in hand,
to find out what the average Davidson student thinks. Many students are heartily in favor of abolishing the rule. Others
make reservations, and some believe that this age-old rule should be retained.

Bancroft Moseley says: "It would tend to make Sunday just another day and would oppose the purposes for which the
Sabbath was set aside."

Bill Bradburn: "I think that it is perfectly all right, for it is a rest and relaxation."

"I don't see why you can't do it at Davidson if you are allowed to at home," says Hoxie Thompson.

Dick Towill: "It would be a good idea if it were not carried too far."

"Golf and tennis help one to develop in mind and body; I see no reason why Davidson students should not
be allowed to pursue these sports on Sunday." This comes from Dennis Myers.

"Such a question should be left to the discretion of the individual," comes from Gene Vogler.

"Personal inclinations based on home training and individual policy should be the deciding factor," says Arthur Cooke.

Stewart Barnes: "It is a form of relaxation and not an organized sport, so I am heartily in favor of
it."

Billy Hill states: "I think it would

(Continued on Page 8)

VARSITY TEAM DEBATES WITH W. AND L. MEN

Harold Sugg and Tyler Port Uphold Negative Side of Question

NO DECISION RENDERED

Collegiate Topic of "Minimum Wages" Argued

Last Thursday evening, March 11th, Harold Sugg and Tyler Port debated the team from Washington & Lee on the subject,
"Resolved: That Congress should be empowered to set maximum hours and minimum wages for industry," upholding the negative in the
argument. No decision was rendered. Mr. Shiver, the first affirmative speaker, advanced economic advantages of his proposal. He pointed out
the pitiful conditions which existed among certain classes of women in this country, and then explained how maximum hour and
minimum wage laws would benefit them without laying an unreasonable burden on the rest of the workmen. Sugg then requested
the affirmative statement of theirPlans and for positive definition of the terms of the resolution. He said that the change
advocated would cut down efficiency, raise prices, and increase unemployment. Mr. Blalock of W. and L. explained the political and
social advantages of the affirmative proposition. Prices, he asserted, would not rise if the suggested proposal passed. By citing the
example of the NRA, he showed that in spite of a rise in prices, the real wages of workers across
the land would be increased by these laws. Port, in concluding the negative argument, described the political chaos into which
the nation would be thrown by such a change as that proposed by the visiting team. It would be impossible,
he said, for any governmental unit to determine fair minimum wages for each small district of the country and to
keep these determinations up-to-date with fluctuations in business conditions and prices.

PROGRAM OF SACRED MUSIC IS PRESENTED
Symphony Orchestra And Glee Club Give Unusual Program At Vespers

On last Sunday evening, the Davidson Glee Club and Little Symphony Orchestra, in cooperation with Rev. Albert McClure, took charge
of the vesper services. The Glee Club was under the direction of Professor Thane McDonald and the Orchestra was conducted
by James Christian Pfohl. As a prelude, Mr. McDonald played a Bach choral, “My Innermost Heart Doth Yearn,” and this
was followed by the call to worship by the singers and the minister. The Glee Club sang “Bless the Lord,
O My Soul.” After a hymn and the invocation, the club sang “Cherubim Song” by the Russian composer Bortniansky. As
the offertory, Mr. Pfohl played a cornet solo, “The Palms,” and the quartet followed this by rendering “Prayer Perfect,” one
of the most beautiful selections of the evening. The last number on the program was “In a Monastery Garden,” by
both the Glee Club and the Orchestra. This particular selection seemed to appeal especially to the members of the audience,
probably because of its familiarity. Another number which was most impressive was the quartet’s rendition of “The Lord’s Prayer,” which
has been set to music by Warner.

MARTIN “TEENY” LAFFERTY
Above is pictured Martin “Teeny” Lafferty, of Concord, who was elected to head the student body during the 1937-38 college
year. Lafferty, a member of Pi Kappa Alpha social fraternity, will go into office after the inauguration ceremonies in late
April.

Positions Department of Education Is Unable to Fill Demand For Graduates
HIGH SALARIES OFFERED
Leading Schools Are Seeking Davidson Men

Dr. H. P. Gwynn, of the Department of Education, said this week that demands for Davidson graduates as teachers in
first-class preparatory schools are steadily increasing. Inquiries for teachers, which have been arriving much earlier this year than at any
time since 1931, show that already there are requests for at least twenty more men as instructors next year than
the Department of Education will be able to furnish should it place all of its seniors in the field. Preparatory
schools are making their positions very attractive by offering unusually high salaries to beginners. Several of the offers which have
been received by the Department are such that the present students in the graduating education class are not able to
competently undertake. Students who are at present taking other courses, but who wish to teach next year, should register in
the office of Dr. P. H. Gwynn, Jr. It is highly probable that there are some who would be able
to undertake one of the attractive offers for which the Education Department is now without a properly qualified man.

Davidson Men Wanted
Dr. Gwynn says that he often receives a letter from the headmaster of some high school or preparatory school saying
that he has had fine men from Davidson in the past and that as he is now without one, he
would like to secure another. “This is evidence that Davidson men make good,” says Dr. Gwynn. During the past seventeen
months, men have been preparing for future teaching positions by practicing with classes in the Davidson high school. These men
are specializing in Social Science, Physical Science, Mathematics, English, and Physical Education.

The Red and Black Masquers, local dramatic organization, was founded in the year 1920 by Professor E. J. Erwin of
the faculty. Since that time, the society has grown in such proportion that the college would have a very hard
time getting along without it. For twenty years previous to 1920, there had been no student-organized and enacted play given
at the college. This resulted from a misunderstanding between the members of the faculty and the members of the student
body over a play given in 1900, which presented members of the faculty in a satirical fashion. At the first
meeting, Frank Thompson, at present a very prominent contractor, was elected to serve as the first president of the new
organization. In that year and for years to come, the productions centered around the minstrel show. The plays were very
successful from the first; in 1920 a large sum was raised for the support of the Y.M.C.A. At first, most
of the plays were originated by the members of the society, but as the years progressed, more and more ambitious
things were attempted until in the school year 1935-36 a set of four very difficult scripts and numerous other shorter
plays were presented. David Herring, then a senior, was president of the organization at the time and “Whistling in the
Dark” and “The Queen's Husband” will be remembered by most of the students in the three upper classes. During his
college days, Fred Smith was president of the Masquers, and not only took part in many productions, but was the
author of numerous parts. Professor Erwin is still serving as faculty advisor, while W. D. Covington is the 1936-37 president
of the organization.

CONCORD MAN IS ELECTED TO PRESIDENCY OF STUDENT BODY
McClellan, Stair and Sloan Still in Race for Vice-Presidency
MORE ELECTIONS LATER
Holland and McClintock Still In For Secretary-Treasurer

Martin L. “Teeny” Lafferty of Concord won a landslide victory over his three opponents in the first ballot Monday, for
the Presidency of the Davidson Student Body for the school year 1937-38. Lafferty received 265 votes to 57 for Jim
Dorsett, his nearest opponent. Heywood Hill collected 41 and Dill Kiesewetter, 22. As this story goes to press, the two
vice-presidencies are still undecided. At the close of the second day's balloting, Bob McClellan was still leading with 198 votes,
Fred Stair second with 183, and Perry Sloan polled 147. The race for secretary-treasurer had narrowed down to Jack Holland
and Gales McClintock. Holland was leading by 13 votes. Warren Iverson and Ned Iverson were eliminated in the second day's
balloting, polling 145 and 130 votes respectively. Frank Harrison, Sam Hemphill, Tom Abbott, and Sam Newell were eliminated in the
first voting for the vice-presidency. Those up for secretary-treasurer were Bud Gilmore, Gales McClintock, Rufus Allison, Bob Mann, Tony Casali,
George Richmond, Roger Rice, Charlie Pegram, and Jack Holland. Allison and Gilmore were eliminated from the race in the second
day's balloting while Casali, Mann, Richmond, Rice, and Pegram lost in the first balloting.

Lafferty is a member of the Pi Kappa Alpha social fraternity, Sigma Pi Sigma, national Physics fraternity. He served as
vice-president of the Student Body this year and was also a member of the Student Council. Lafferty is an outstanding
member of the Davidson football team, having gained nationwide publicity last fall for his performance on the gridiron. He was
selected as a half-back on the Big Five and All-State eleven. He was chosen alternate captain for the Wildcat team
during the coming season. Other elections will take place in (Continued on Page 8)

OPENING DATE IS SET FOR SUMMER SESSION
Second Music School-Camp Will Also Be Held By Professor Pfohl

The Davidson College summer session will open this year on June 14th, and it will continue for six weeks, closing
July 23. Professor F. K. Fleagle is the director of the summer session. The courses offered in the summer session
are selected so that an opportunity is afforded any student at any stage of his college course to advance his
standing by taking summer work. All of the courses offered are available for credit for teachers in the public school
system. Each class must have at least six students.

The Music School-Camp will also be held again this summer. Prof. Pfohl will be in charge of the courses. The
recreation for the summer will be under the supervision of Mr. Pete Whittle. The Music School-Camp will open on June
22nd and will run through June 30th. The band organized at the Music School-Camp last summer held a reunion here
on Thanksgiving and played at the Davidson-Wake Forest game that day. Many members of this band are students here at
Davidson now and belong to the musical organizations here.
