WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 1937 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Three

PROGRAM, OVER WOT FEATURES DAVIDSON BAND

Norman Shepherd Is Interviewed By Fred Smith on Athletics Here

PORT BROADCASTS NEWS

Quartette Sings ‘Mrs. Winslow’s Soothing Syrup’

Davidson College was on the air again Tuesday evening from 10:30 till 11:00 o'clock, broadcasting the second of a series
of programs under the direction of Prof. James Christian Pfohl. The Davidson Symphonic Band, under the baton of Prof. Pfohl,
played a number which was especially for Class B North Carolina High School bands along with their marches. This number
was “The Scarlet Mask Overture” by Zamecnik. The band also played “Onward-Upward” and “The Advance of Aluminum” (two marches) and
“Humoreske,” a composition by Dvorak and Caillet. The closing hymn for the program was “My Jesus, As Thou Wilt.”

Other musical features were a Chorale—"Sleepers Awake,” “Marimba Duo,” a two-part piano invention by Bach played by Profs. Pfohl and
Babcock, and “Mrs. Winslow’s Soothing Syrup” which was sung by the Davidson Quartette.

Conrad Frederick Smith, Alumni secretary, introduced and interviewed Mr. Norman Shepherd, Director of Athletics. Mr. Shepherd stated briefly Davidson’s outlook
on athletics for the future and also stated that the college was in great need of a new gymnasium. Mr.
Shepherd pointed out that Davidson’s present gymnasium did not have sufficient room for a standard basketball court and was also
short of space for all other indoor sports.

Another interesting feature of the program was the short news broadcast by Tyler Port which brought to the listeners a
number of current news items which had taken place on the campus during the last week. It was announced that
Mr. Frank L. Jackson, Treasurer of Davidson College, would be interviewed on next week’s program and that the special piece
for the North Carolina High School bands would be “Korsakon Selections,” by Yoder.

FRENCH CLUB GIVES MOTION PICTURE IN DAVIDSON THEATRE

Famous French Picture “La Maternelle” Presented By French Circle

“La Maternelle,” the most famous French motion picture ever produced, will be presented in the Davidson theater on Friday, February
26 in the afternoon. The picture is sponsored by “Le Cercle Francais.” The title of the picture means “Children of
Montmartre,” and has as its plot the loves and hates of the poor children of Montmartre, who are left to
care for themselves by their parents. For the benefit of those who do not understand French easily, the spoken words
are written in English on the margin of the film. The picture is a truly great work of art, for
it has been selected by critics in this country and Europe as one of the ten best motion pictures of
1936.

The heroes of this picture are unnamed urchins that were taken off the streets of Paris. They are quite at
home in the setting of the picture, and because of this they give an excellent portrayal of the true life
of children in the slums of a French city. A motion picture such as this one is presented every year
by “Le Cercle Francais” in an effort to give a better understanding of the French language to the students here.
It is believed, however, that this year the picture will be of interest to students who do not even take
French, because of the realism and universal appeal of this film.

This picture was produced by M. Jean Benoit-Levy, after many months of hard work. M. Benoit-Levy is the head of
the French committee on educational pictures at the League of Nations. He has recently been in this country attending conferences
at New York University and Columbia University. M. Benoit-Levy is hailed by many as the discoverer of a new field
for motion picture art. He gained this recognition through his work in the picture, “La Maternelle.”

FREE SCHOLARSHIP IS OFFERED TO DAVIDSON BY TWO UNIVERSITIES

Heidelberg and Munich Offer Scholarships For Next Year to Students

APPLY TO DR. VOWLES

Joe Dees and Fields Horine Are Former Winners

The University of Heidelberg is again offering to the students of Davidson College one free scholarship for the year 1937
and 1938. A letter from the German university states that it has become apparent that study abroad can really be
beneficial only to the older and more experienced students, and that the university has decided to accept only graduate students
during the next year, but that in special cases exceptions can and will be made to this rule. The University
of Heidelberg has not yet offered us any scholarships for the summer of 1937.

The University of Munich now has a very well-organized Junior year abroad, which is especially adapted to the needs of
young Americans. The combined fee, which covers everything except incidentals, is $1,070. There are a number of scholarship aids which
might help to reduce this. Dr. Vowles will be glad to supply additional information to anyone interested about either type
of study. Sometime during this month members of the Senior class who may wish to make application for Heidelberg may
apply in writing to Dr. Vowles.

Field Horine, now a student at Davidson, spent his junior year at Heidelberg. He won the scholarship in 1935. Joe
Dees, of Davidson's class of 1936, is now doing graduate work at the same university.

‘Y’ Works Collecting Christmas Gift Fund

Collections on the “Y” Christmas gift fund for $800 are going forward at a slower rate than expected, but with
a good response from all approached. Monday, February 15, was the tentative date for complete collection of the fund, but
as only half of the fund had been collected by last Saturday, collections were expected to run into this week.
As all boys approached so far have paid, hopes for collection of the entire sum are high. If all the
money pledged is collected, it will certainly be one of the largest gift funds ever collected here and perhaps will
be the highest on record. The money, when collected, will be used to construct a much-needed light plant for Mutoto,
Africa, deep in the Belgian Congo.

Smith Speaks Before Alumni Council Meet

Mr. Fred Smith, Alumni Secretary, attended a meeting of section three of the American Alumni Council in Greensboro, N. C.,
on Friday, February 12th. There were about forty alumni and alumnae secretaries at this meeting representing colleges and universities in
five southern states. The purpose of this council is to discuss and consider the problems which arise in this phase
of college administration. Mr. Smith was asked to make a speech before the group and to give his views concerning
some parts of work in which the entire group was affiliated.

‘D’ Club Initiates New Members At Meeting

The regular meeting of the “D” Club was held on Tuesday, Feb. 16, at 7:15 o'clock, in the “D” Club
Room. At this meeting the new members were formally initiated into the organization, with all due ceremony. Following the initiations,
there was a discussion regarding the promotion of minor sports at Davidson. In addition to this, plans were discussed as
to the possibility of changes to be made in the informal initiation ceremonies of the “D” Club.

GLEE CLUB AND SALON ORCHESTRA

In the pictures above are the Davidson Glee Club and the Davidson Salon Orchestra. The Glee Club is under the
direction of Mr. Thane McDonald. Mr. James Pfohl directs the Salon Orchestra. These organizations will start off their trips this
year, next Sunday, Feb. 21, by going on a three-day trip. They will appear first in the Church of Wide
Fellowship in Southern Pines. This program will be given on Sunday night.be On Monday night they will go to Red
Springs to give a program at Flora Macdonald. After the appearance there, they will go to Maxton, to be at
Presbyterian Junior College. Both organizations have good programs prepared, and are now rehearsing overtime in order to give the best
programs possible. There are to be several more trips later this month and during the first part of March.

THUMBING SYSTEM GIVES TWO SOPHS TRIP TO FLORIDA

Cameron Clark and Preston Lincoln Catch Ride to Palm Beach

Cameron Clark and Preston Lincoln recently completed a whirlwind trip to Florida by the “thumbing system.” These two lads left
Davidson Saturday, Feb. 6, at 4:30 in the afternoon, and after visiting as far south as Miami, returned to school
the following Wednesday. The entire trip covered a distance of nearly 1600 miles. Lincoln reports that they were merely bumming
to Charlotte for dates, but when a Mr. Ferguson from Huntington, W. Va., picked them up and offered to take
them to Palm Beach, Fla., they were unable to decline.

After dining in Charlotte, the trio drove to Allendale, S. C., where they spent the night. The next day they
visited the historical points of St. Augustine, Fla., and then continued along the coast through Daytona Beach until they reached
Palm Beach early Sunday night. The boys left Mr. Ferguson and soon caught a ride which got them into Miami
around midnight. During the remainder of the night and the next morning, they inspected the city and then started the
homeward journey about noon Monday.

The first ride they caught on the return trip was to Jacksonville, which they reached early Monday night. After staying
in Jacksonville, they began bumming again, this time at midnight and in the rain. A ride was caught with a
truck bound for Sumter, S. C., and it reached the city early Wednesday afternoon. At Sumter, a ride was caught
with a former Davidson college man going to Statesville, and he brought them into Davidson at 7:30 Wednesday night. “The
entire trip,” stated Lincoln, “cost us only $13.00, and it was the first time that I had ever been farther
south than Charlotte.”

Black Keys Banquet Attended By Garber

Wade Barrow Elected President of Social Group For Coming Year

Following the last dance in the Mid-Winters set, the Black Keys Social Fraternity were hosts at an outstanding banquet held
at the Hotel Charlotte on Saturday evening. Among the guests were Jan Garber and his vocalist, Lew Palmer. A good
number of alumni were also present. Billy Ravanell, Herb Willis, Charlie Thompson, and Charlie Harris returned to their alma mater
for the weekend and all were guests at the banquet.

The Black Keys have only recently elected new officers who will serve until next year. They are: Wade Barrow, president;
Phillip Arrowsmith, vice-president; and Billy Crooks, secretary and treasurer. Barrow is a member of Kappa Sigma fraternity, Arrowsmith of Pi
Kappa Phi, and Crooks of Phi Delta Theta.

Four Students Speak At Two Deputations

Two deputations went out from last weekend, in addition to the regular Sunday School work. Sidney Crane and Robert M.
King went to Mitchell College. Joe Davidson and Richard Gammon went to the Charlotte Y.M.C.A. At the Charlotte Y, Joe
Gammon addressed the younger group—boys up to twelve years old. Dick Gammon spoke to the older group—from twelve to eighteen.
Sid Crane and Bob King spoke at the vesper service on Sunday afternoon at Mitchell College. They chose as their
subject “Africa.”

BUGS’ BARRINGER AT BIG DUDE RANCH

Former Davidson Man Works In Wilds of Florida County

No matter where you go, you will always find a Davidson College man on the job. In the wilds of
Pasco County in Florida at Moon Lake Gardens and Dude Ranch, a Davidson man is in charge of publicity and
advertising. He is (Bugs) Barringer who went to Davidson for a year and a half. If he had remained in
school, he would have graduated with the class of '36. While at Davidson, “Bugs” was a member of the Kappa
Alpha fraternity, played football, and was a member of the sophomore committee. After leaving college, he worked on the Charlotte
News and the Charlotte Observer for the United States Department of Agriculture. He was editor of the Danville Herald in
Danville, Va., for six months.

Moon Lake Gardens and Dude Ranch, where “Bugs” is now located, has an area of 10,000 acres. It is a
very good hunting ground. Deer and wild turkeys are very plentiful on the reservation. “Bugs” stated in a recent letter
to the editor of The Davidsonian that he would be very glad to see any Davidson men that might get
to Florida.

Flu can’t even stop University of Minnesota students from wooing. Men in the isolation ward sent the girls across the
hall ice cream cones in appreciative acknowledgment of a set of paper dolls.

Both boys are the sons of missionaries to Africa.

SIX INITIATED INTO PRE-MEDICAL GROUP

Dr. Thomas Sparrow of Charlotte, Greets Neophytes Before Initiation

Six pre-medical students were initiated into Alpha Epsilon Delta, honorary pre-medical fraternity, on Friday night, February 5. The new initiates
are: Mac Covington, John Graham, Carl Groover, Henry Lyons, Marshall Sanford, and Dick Vowles. The initiation took place after the
lecture given to the society by Dr. Thomas Sparrow, of Charlotte. Dr. Sparrow attended the initiation and welcomed the new
members into the fraternity. The officers of Alpha Epsilon Delta this year are: Ken Scott, president; Worth Sprunt, secretary; and
John Templeton, treasurer.

Eu Society Has First Meeting Of New Year

The Eumenean Literary Society held its first meeting of 1937 on Tuesday, February 9. Fred Stair gave a paper on
the proper use of leisure time for recreation and an Oxford debate was held on the question: Resolved, That Dances
Should Be Held on the Campus. B. F. Moseley and Bill Rader upheld the affirmative and Sam Webb and Frank
Poe the negative. During the presentation of arguments, the debaters were required to answer any questions the members of the
audience might care to ask. The decision was awarded to the affirmative.

Freshmen at the University of Michigan have been granted permission to live in fraternity houses during the second semester.

Barbara Stanwyck says: “Luckies make a hit with my throat”

An independent survey was made recently among professional men and women—lawyers, doctors, lecturers, scientists, etc. Of those who said they
smoke cigarettes, more than 87% stated they personally prefer a light smoke. Miss Stanwyck verifies the wisdom of this preference,
and so do other leading artists of the radio, stage, screen, and opera. Their voices are their fortunes. That’s why
so many of them smoke Luckies. You, too, can have the throat protection of Luckies—a light smoke, free of certain
harsh irritants removed by the exclusive process “It’s Toasted”. Luckies are gentle on the throat.

A Light Smoke

“It’s Toasted”—Your Throat Protection AGAINST IRRITATION—AGAINST COUGH

“When talking pictures arrived, my stage experience on Broadway gave me my chance on the screen. Taking care of my
throat became serious business with me, so I changed to Luckies—a light smoke. Of course, I smoke other cigarettes now
and then but sooner or later I come back to Luckies. They make a hit with my throat and also
with my taste.”

Barbara Stanwyck

RKO RADIO PICTURES’ STAR NOW APPEARING IN “THE PLOUGH AND THE STARS”

THE FINEST TOBACCOS— “THE CREAM OF THE CROP”

Copyright 1937, The American Tobacco Company
