Page Two

The Davidsonian

Founded By the Class of 1915

1937 Member 1938
Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON AVE
CHICAGO - BOSTON - LOS ANGELES - NEW YORK, N.Y.
SAN FRANCISCO

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879.

Editor-in-Chief
CHARLES MOORE

Business Manager
Fitzhugh

Assistant Editor
Ovid

Managing Editor
Wesley Coghill

Managing Editor
Terrell Porter

Managing Editor
E. Perry Sloan

Bill Marquess
Owen Cooke
Sam Cothran
McGeachy Yates
Fatson
Sam Ryburn
Henry Baker
Andy Turner
Collection Manager
John Latimer
Advertising Manager
Bill Miller
Asst. Advertising Manager
Wesley Coghill
Circulation Manager
Terrell Porter
Circulation Manager
Sam Hemphill
Asst. Business Manager

Count it all joy, my brethren, when ye fall into manifold temptations; knowing that the proof of your faith worketh
patience—James 1:2-3

We extend our deepest sympathies to Ross McElwee in the recent loss of his mother.

Armistice Day...
Tomorrow, Thursday, November 11, boys and girls, men and women will gather in schools, colleges, and city auditoriums all over
our United States to commemorate that day when warring ceased and peace rested once more on the earth's torn and
trodden soil. And how ironical it all is. The youth of today will have a greater spirit of peace injected
into its veins and our chests will swell with pride as we fairly shout the glories and blessings of peace.
Then perhaps war will come, and if it does youth will forget all their causes and plunge headlong into a
mad orgy of what is erroneously termed “patriotism.”

A day such as Armistice should call for a greater interest and understanding of the problems of today, in order
that youth may better attack and deal with these problems tomorrow. The very policies of our own United States toward
eastern neighbors, as manifested by President Roosevelt, may mean the embroilment of our land in international conflict. All depends upon
the interpretation of that policy. At any rate, the youth of today should THINK as it never thought before. It
faces problems such as have never been faced before. The average American boy and girl, man and woman will let
Armistice Day pass as just another day, without the least thought as to its significance. Shall we be so blind?

Leader For China...
It has always been a matter of speculation just what the Chinese people, the greatest in number on the earth’s
surface, could do with an efficient and competent organization. China has the resources, she has all the potentialities.

China needs a leader, a capable, efficient, shrewd leader. China has had its leaders. A Spanish friend and great traveler
once told us: “China will never attain the degree of organization necessary to establish it as a definite power and
threat with a military leader. China needs a religious leader. If China had a man that would appeal to the
country as a whole because of his religious beliefs, that man could organize China into the greatest power in the
world.” The statement, whether true or not, is most thought-provoking. A leader in China must be able to cast off
the cloak of superstition and this seems to indicate a man who will in some way affect the religious ideas
and ideals of the Chinese. But will this ever come about? Perhaps in the far-off future. The Japanese invasion in
all probability will do more than any other factor in bringing to the Chinese people a need for a greater
unity.

Lost Laundry...
All too often, announcements of this sort are read in chapel: “Owner of laundry No. 864 call by room 53
West.” There must be something wrong when this occurs repeatedly and consistently every week. So we made a trip to
the laundry in an attempt to see just where the fault lay. Mr. Hamrick proudly displayed the neat wooden frames,
with their numbered sections, in which laundry is placed when ready for students. We took one look and decided that
the laundry had just about as efficient a system as we had seen in some time, which means only one
thing. The fault lies with the freshmen. How, however, could any individual be so stupid as to pick up the
wrong laundry when filed efficiently and obviously? Perhaps freshmen just don't develop a memory for this sort of thing. Perhaps
they just don’t care enough to take a second look and make sure the number is correct. It seems to
us that since it is the freshman’s lot and one of the few duties imposed on the first-year men to
carry laundry, that he try to show some intelligence in the matter and do his job decently. His carelessness doesn’t
increase his stock to any extent, but only causes a disagreeable inconvenience for the upperclassmen whose laundry is involved.

U. S. ‘Uneducation’...
Americans have somehow gained a reputation for wit and “smooth” handling of complex topics in a superficial way. As a
group, we have been accused of doing much talking with few facts to support our statements. And today Americans are
faced with many practical problems of seemingly overwhelming proportions.

Now Dr. Robert M. Hutchins, president of the University of Chicago, feels he has discovered the reason. Although we have
the most extensive educational system in the world, President Hutchins believes we have not been taught to think. President Hutchins
is not alone in his opinion of “uneducated Americans,” but his view appears somewhat exaggerated. After all, there are people
who talk, write, and speak with both knowledge and authority in the field of their special interest. The pleasant occupation
of branding Americans as too flippant in manner, too casual with their ideas is as unjust as it is attractive.
It has been noticed that Americans are constantly inventing new machines and bringing forth new suggestions for the political, economic,
and social benefit of mankind. There must be a little thinking going on. Even our fine system of uneducation is
valuable if it succeeds in producing citizens with critical minds.

The Minnesota Daily: With-The Staff
Homecoming, the greatest weekend of all the year for people at Davidson, has come and gone once more. The peace
of the cloistered campus has been restored again, now that the throng of alumni has returned to the city. Everywhere
was evidence that the famous Wildcat spirit is something that gets into the blood of every Davidson student. Groups of
alumni gathered here and there after the game Saturday afternoon to summon up memories of Davidson's victory over the Tar
Heels from Chapel Hill back in 1930 or was it '31? It seems that we just keep fighting and fighting
and hoping that a time will come again when we will down Carolina and Duke. More power to the Davidson
Wildcats! We're all right there behind them, yelling and fighting our own little battle up in the stands as they
battle against seemingly insurmountable odds out on the field.

One alumnus told me something Saturday that gave me an entirely different slant on the situation. He said, “These moral
victories sound fairly well to you when you are one of the students, but when you come back to see
a game the one thing that you're interested in is the score.” So perhaps the thing that we should do
is to plan our Homecoming game for next year with a team not quite so invincible as Carolina or Duke.
How about Wake Forest? The Demon Deacons have long been the traditional rivals of our Wildcats, and the element of
chance for a Davidson victory would be greatly increased. After all, our football players may be “Men of Might” and
“Iron Men,” but there are a few things that might and iron cannot overcome.

(Continued on Page Five)

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Campus

SUPREME COURT JUSTICE HARLAN F. STONE WAS EXPELLED FROM MASS. 51 COLLEGE FOR ALLEGEDLY HITTING A PROFESSOR! HE ENROLLED AT
AMHERST WHERE HE BECAME THE MOST POPULAR MAN ON THE CAMPUS.

Letters to the Editor

CONCERNING WORDS TO “THE RED AND BLACK”...
Dear Editor:
May I state, in regard to the two stanzas entitled “The Red and Black,” printed without my previous knowledge in
the last issue of The Davidsonian, that Mrs. W. P. Cumming had nothing to do with its composition. I have
requested, and repeat the request, that my name be omitted in connection with its use. Mrs. Cumming and I were
co-authors of the “Centennial Ode,” which was published last spring. Kenneth Scott's music is excellent for an Alma Mater song
and supplies a definite need. I do not think that anything will or should replace the spirited air of “O
Davidson” on the athletic field; we have all heard it sung at times, however, when the words and music were
incongruous for the occasion. I hope that someone will write words for Scott's music which possess something more than the
usual rather meaningless general atmosphere of lachrymose nostalgia which seems to characterize Alma Maters.
Yours sincerely,
W. P. CUMMING.

AN ANSWER TO LAST WEEK’S ATTACK ON ROOSEVELT...
Dear Dick:
It is evident that the author of the letter in the last issue of The Davidsonian which attacked Roosevelt’s neutrality
policy had some doubts as to the solidity of ground upon which he stood. He scolds President Roosevelt severely for
not putting into force the 1937 Neutrality Act, and the only reason he can find is that the President “wishes”
to break the law, and rule by his own whim and fancy. But may I give '39 a little aid
in his reasoning. Admitted that it is a slight excuse for F. D.-R’s caution that officially war has not been
declared by either Japan or China. But there is a better reason for the President's hesitancy. When the Act was
framed, no one suspected hostilities in East Asia, for we only had apprehensions as to the future of Europe. The
Act would have undoubtedly worked in support of Great Britain and France against Germany or Italy. That was what it
was designed for.

The Weekly Time Table
Wednesday, Nov. 10—
7:00 P. M.—Scheduled meeting of Sigma Delta Pi.
7:15 P. M.—Davidsonian meeting (Editorial staff).
8:00 P. M.—Meeting of Gamma Sigma Epsilon fraternity.
9:00 P. M.—Scheduled meeting of the “Y” Cabinet.

Thursday, Nov. 11—
2:30 P. M.—Freshman football game with Blue Ridge.P. M.—Social fraternities will hold their weekly meetings.

Friday, Nov. 12—
7:00 P. M.—Davidson broadcast over station WSOC, Charlotte.
8:00 P. M.—Scheduled meeting of Delta Phi Alpha.

Saturday, Nov. 13—
2:00 P. M.—Varsity football game in Cartoon.

When CLYDE DEVINE OF OREGON STATE SAW THE OREGON KICKER DROP BACK TO PUNT, HE HOISTED A TEAMMATE ON HIS
SHOULDERS JUST AS THE BALL LEFT THE KICKER'S TOE, ENABLING HIS PAL TO BLOCK THE KICK. ALTHOUGH THERE IS NO
RULE AGAINST IT, THIS IS THE ONLY INSTANCE ON RECORD OF THE PLAY.

Past weekend reminded me of Mid-Winters—only much better without Jan Garber’s slurpy saxophones driving you nuts—but the crowd seemed as
big; never saw such large numbers of beautiful girls congregated together, and so many alumni back—pleasant moments relived. Also, strange
to say, alumni this year paid their respective ways and customary “bumming” was reversed—maybe publicity given mooching alumni by Carolina
Beta frat who won their Homecoming house decorating with merely a large dollar mark sign has had universal influence.

Getting back to lovely lasses flooding the dances... Too numerous to name, of great joy to nearsighted folk such as
I, as no danger of drawing a blank when breaking got fast and furious—incidentally, seldom. But the lights were cut
out too quickly on “no breaks” for Horace Lutz and myself—resorted to matches finally and searched for lost dates. Maybe
it was cold weather and young gallants sacrificed tux coats to lightly clad ladies but certainly looked suspicious when shirt-sleeved
gentlemen centered formal dance Friday night. However, this was overlooked when observed superb decorations in Armory—evident touch of artistic genius,
such excellent taste—and if you don't know who decorated, ask the Kang.

Heard delightful girl’s trio who can actually sing—Bluefield ladies Anne and June Rish, and Anna Mac Feuchtenberger—now and then aided
and abetted by male warblers Pete MacNite, Harper Bell, and Alumnus Wimpy Ravenel—could write entire column on antics of various
alumni, but they had their chance in past years.

FORTY YEARS AT THE UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS DR. HARPER HAS ALWAYS WORN A RED BOW TIE, THE SAME TYPE OF
SHOES, AND CARRIED AN UMBRELLA.

Our sympathies wanted. But if put in force in the Sino-Jap situation, it would favor Japan with her great industrial
resources and more powerful navy. This would entirely be opposed to our sympathies, for we see China as the victim
and Japan as the monster contemplating. We are all isolationists, but few of us are neutral—not even the President. To
put the Neutrality Act into effect would aid Japan rather than China, for it would break China's line of supply.
Perhaps Japan does need China, and is better fit to govern her; regardless, none of us can approve of her
method of carrying out this end. Moreover, we will not grease the path to that end by weakening China and
again making war the supreme arbitrator, which “’39” would have us do by having the President enforce the Act. GEORGE
L. MILNE.

NAUSEATING EXPERIENCE... (From letters to The Charlotte Observer Ed.)

To The Observer:
Knowing that your paper has the largest circulation in the Carolinas, I am sending you this letter in the hope
that your printing it will possibly be the means of preventing someone else suffering the embarrassment that I did yesterday.

OVERHEARD—“Go on, dance with her. I broke on your girl didn’t I?” “Yes sir, that Lafferty was the best back
in the South until he got hurt. I just hope he is well enough to show those Yankees a thing
or two.” (Editor's note: Ditto) “My girl has an impromptu complexion. She makes it up as she goes along.” “These
younger ones have a lot of it, don’t they?” (Speaking of reserved seats at $2.50 each and after finding our
places, we soon found ourselves surrounded by cursing drunks. Not only did they prevent our enjoying the game, but in
all my experience as a spectator at football games I have never heard such language. It consisted not only of
‘hell’ and ‘damn’ but also included the reference to ancestry, which I had always understood was a fighting word in
the South. In pleasant contrast to the game, I attended a game at Davidson last year. At Davidson, I did
not see a single person take a drink, not a single drunk, and not a curse.

During the height of cursing, I said to a young fellow next to me, “Is this the usual thing that
ladies have to hear at football games?” He smiled wryly, and then replied, “Dot's vot you call Southern chivalry.” Yours
for more Davidsons and fewer “S.” LOUIS GINSBERGER. Raleigh, N. C.

Dear Diary:
Hector called for me this evening, and after much persuasion, Mamma consented that I go driving with him. Just think,
dear diary: Hector and I together with only the stars and the beautiful silver moon for company! Oh, I shall
never forget it! We drove over to Bird Center and I had a sarsaparilla. Coming home, Hector let Dobbin pick
his own way, and put his arms around me. I am afraid to tell Mamma. And when Dobbin stopped in
the creek to get a drink, Hector KISSED me! Oh, diary, I am so happy! It is eleven o'clock now,
but I am still so thrilled I cannot sleep.

A MORNING PRAYER—
Now I get me up to work,
I pray the Lord I may not shirk,
If I should die before tonight,
I pray the Lord my work's all right.
—Anon.

EDITORIALS—Did you read the editorial page in The Charlotte Observer last week? If you did, you were pleased with a
certain editorial by an out-of-state man appearing in last Friday's edition. This gentleman was comparing the football games at some
of our larger institutions with the football games at Davidson. It was really not the games themselves but the behavior
of the crowds at the games. His compliments to the Davidson student body and their behavior was in itself worth
all our efforts to have a gentlemanly spirit on our campus at all times. How many fights have you seen
at Davidson games? How many obnoxious “drunks” have you seen at a Davidson game? I know your answer. It's something
to brag about, too. Let's keep it up.

THUMB-NAIL SKETCH—
This time it's a freshman of all people. It is impossible that everyone on the campus should know him but
his greatness lies not in himself but in his activities. Naturally, he is in the freshman section and has been
seen wearing a funny-looking red cap at times. It is even probable that he was pledged by one of our
leading fraternities not long ago. It is also said that he rooms in one of the larger dormitories. He is
quite a good football player for his size and played in high school. His best-known accomplishment is the painting of
the water tank. Do you know who he is? If so, why not tell the Court of Control?

SELECTED—
You can't kiss a girl unexpectedly. The nearest you can come to it is to kiss her sooner than she
thought you would.

Visit KING’S SODA & GRILL
FOUNTAIN SERVICE
SANDWICHES - LUNCHES - REGULAR DINNERS
Popular Brands of Cigarettes 12c (Camels, Luckies, Old Golds, Chesterfields, Raleigh, Piedmont)
Free Telephone
Corner 4th & S. Tryon St.

Wednesday, Nov. 10, 1937
Day By CHUBBY KING

She was with a funny fellow who’s my roommate. But did you know that Jim Dorsett had a big row
with Alice Wright Murphy, wonder why? That Bob Greene who has loves in Florida, North Carolina, and Kentucky, received a
severe jolt when the latter got married the day after he had a love chat with her. That Jimmie Pratt
after two years of concentrated effort, succeeded in getting besieged lady to come down to dances. That Reid Harmon’s nose
shines in the dark. That Henry Lyons had three dates up first cousins—and abruptly left for Salisbury Sunday. That Owen
Cooke should watch his actions before hotel managers.

SERIOUS NOTES:
Upperclassmen receiving wrong laundry from flat-brained freshmen who do not possess sufficient mentality to remember even numbers of one digit
please order these lost-minded lowlies to return that package to the laundry where it can be claimed—rather than continue having
chapel announcements deluged with evidences of freshman deformities, apparent enough without publicity. Gish and Bidwell inserted themselves far into the
affections of Shirley Peters when they exerted helping the latter celebrate her birthday. Sam Cothran flamed rather brilliantly with fair
damsel when suddenly observed by his true love. Messiers Harris and Crabb at indiscreet party. Sawyer very jealous of Andy
Turner’s good fortune in having wife here at school. Pika breakfast—1 P.S. Brent Greene at ease with New York Little
Apple champion. Addison Long, Ralph Cooper, Jimmy Wilson and Mark Lillard frightened terribly Fri. night—Concord Road. Charlie Smith's trouble with
slimy crawly snakes all weekend. Toby Conyer’s date sick of Broadway. First quarter social allowance over so settle back and
take it easy (Rut); next installment of Girls, Glamor, and Other Things will come off sometime around the week in
December.

Take It Easy By Rut Miller
