THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, APRIL 14, 1937 Page Four

WILDCAT TRACKSTERS TROUNCE

HICKS HURLS CATS TO VICTORY OVER NORTH CAROLINA, 7-6
By BILL MARQUESS

Snapping out a recent slump to upset the Tar Heels, the Wildcats proved to all onlookers that they are a team to be reckoned with here Monday afternoon. It is interesting to note that the Lairdmen have been on better-than-even terms with the Tar Heels for the past few years, but it certainly took some potent possibilities to be fully realized before the encounter with Wake Forest. If nothing else happens, averages will even out over nine innings, and we will have won another ball game. Support Your Team!

Is it Davidson men or opponents of the old Wildcat spirit who criticize the players when they begin to weaken? As Coach Laird puts it, "All our players ever do is give their best effort and hustle." You can't expect more from players who have little besides effort and hustle. Effort and hustle always bring out the cream of the crop, even if there isn't lots of ability.

To all "Quick's comments" besides those who have letters in on the editorial of this week's issue of The Davidsonian, it is heartily recommended. Bill hit the nail on the head when he invited all bleacher athletes who insist upon criticizing the players to "do better or shut up."

Softball is rapidly becoming one of the most popular sports on the campus, especially since it has been announced that it will supplant the regular ball in the inter-fraternity league. Nearly every afternoon between Chambers and the gym is crowded with players. Though it is called "softball," it is anything but soft. In well-organized leagues where a good brand of ball is played, all the players use gloves. Incidentally, it would be a splendid intra-mural idea if more of you stars used gloves. It's a good deal easier on the hands and would cut down the number of errors (which, by the way, is considerable).

Plans have almost been completed whereby the racquet-wielders—the only team on our roster which does not have a coach—will be tutored by one of the most competent instructors in the country. Captain Carl Carlson has arranged with "Ace" Gielbach, a former coach at the University of Illinois, who is now a pro at the Tennis and Racquet Club in Charlotte, for the latter to come out to Davidson several times a week to give the top-ranking men on the team a few pointers. Mr. Gielbach really knows his onions about this tennis game. In seven years with the Illini, he turned out five teams that walked off with the Big Ten championship. What's good enough for the Big Ten ought to be good enough for the Big Five.

Hurrahs: The scoreboard that first appeared at the Carolina game Monday. Maybe it brought us good luck, and it certainly was an improvement over the old system of racking one's brain in a futile attempt to keep up with the score and inning. The Pitching of Hicks—Coach Larry Spearman. He has lost no time in justifying the choice of the Athletic Committee for the vacant coaching position.

MEN ADE FAIR AT CIN FEAT N FAS

Team Outpoints Bulldogs in 77-49 Win
IS THIRD STRAIGHT WIN
Will Meet V. P. I. Trackmen On Next Saturday

Davidson's varsity track team picked up its third consecutive win of the season at the expense of a strong Citadel team in a meet held last Saturday. The Davidson team, paced by Wade Barrow, who scored 10 points to lead the individual scoring, took eight first places to Citadel's six. Davidson scored 77 points to Citadel's 49.

Davidson took all three places in the pole vault as the result of a clean sweep. In the low hurdles, which was one of the most exciting events of the meet, Wade Barrow and Monroe Wicker ran a dead heat. In the high hurdles, Davidson also took all three places.

Injuries Prove Costly

Davidson was hampered in the 100-yard dash and the 220-yard dash as Mokey Faison and Walt Smith, both dash men, were out with injuries. Dickson competed in the broad jump but did not enter the dashes because of the injuries.

Davidson will make their bid for a fourth win in as many starts when they meet the strong Virginia Polytechnic Institute team here at Richardson Field next Saturday.

The results of the events are as follows:
One mile run—Morton C, Woodward D, and Parcell D. Time 4:41;
440-yard dash—Jones C, Hickman D, and Abbatt D. Time 53:2;
100-yard dash—Keith C, Manning C, and Wilson D. Time 10:2;
High hurdles—Wicker D, Barrow D, and Wilson D. Time 15:6;
880-yard run—Melton D, Jones C, and Poe D. Time 2:10.6;
220-yard dash—Keith C, Barrow D, and Manning C. Time 23:2;
Two mile run—Walker D, De Lange C, and Montone C. Time 10:15;
Shot put—Crisp D, Warden D, and Sabados C. Distance 39' 6";
High jump—Barry C, Wilson C, and Dickson D. Height 5' 9";
Javelin—Johnston D, Cumbie D, and Rogers C. Distance 160' 5";
Discus—Crisp D, Warden D, and Rogers C. Distance 108' 7";
Broad jump—Dickson D, Manning C, and Pea D. Distance 19' 10 1/2";
Low hurdles—Barrow D, and Wicker D (tied), McBee C. Time 26:2;
Pole vault—Purdy D, Sample D, and KITTEN CINDERMEN TO TANGLE WITH CENTRAL IN QUEEN CITY TODAY

Davidson’s Kitten trackmen will show their strength for the first time this season when they clash with the strong Central High School Wildcats in Charlotte, next Wednesday, April 14. Intensive practice sessions, under the direction of their new coach, Lawrence Spearman, have been held daily for the past few weeks, and the Kittens should show plenty of power in their first meet. A call for reinforcements to the squad was made in chapel last week by the coaches and was well responded to. Many new boys are out fighting for the various positions on the team. Heath Whittle, varsity track coach, formerly coached the team. Boys who will run in the meet are: One mile run—Joe Gammon and Preston; 100-yard dash—Birmingham, French and King; high hurdles—Calhoun and Harbin; (Continued on Page 6)

TEENY IS OUT AT THE PLATE

In the eighth inning of the second game with N. C. State, Martin (Twinkletoes) Lafferty hit safely, stole second, reached third on an out, and then tried to steal home. He was just a fraction of a second late as the photo shows Catcher Richardson leaning over to tag him out as he slid in. Clark is shown at the left, while Umpire Ryan bends over so as to be able to see the play more clearly. Lafferty was the man who led Davidson to victory over State in football.—(Courtesy of Charlotte Observer).

Leftfielder Court Tourney Won By Boggs

Edges Out Frampton in Marathon Match; Team Leaves On Virginia Trip

The Varsity Spring Tennis Tournament was brought to an exciting close last week as the team prepared to depart for a trip into Virginia. In the only match which had not been played before spring holidays, Boggs edged out a victory over Frampton 6-4, 7-5, 5-7, 8-10, 6-3. As far as is known, this is the longest match ever played at Davidson, lasting from 1:30 till 6:00. Frampton had a slight edge over Boggs, but Boggs came to the net, this being the decisive factor which spelled defeat for Frampton.

With the tournament over and five wins to one loss tucked under their belts, the team and manager will leave today for an invasion of Virginia, where tomorrow they will meet William and Mary in Williamsburg. Friday they play a team of the Hermitage Country Club at Richmond. And on Saturday they will close their invasion when they clash with netmen from the University of Virginia at Charlottesville. Those who are to make the trip are: Manager Howard Covington, Bronston Kenney, Wade Boggs, Captain Carl Carlson, Harry Frampton, Jimmy Reinhardt, and Bones Woodward.

Competition Begins In Softball League

Davidson's intramural softball league began its centennial year season early last week. In Tuesday’s opening game, the juniors, last year’s champions, edged out the sophomores by 8 to 7. Six home runs were made, four of them by sophomores, Darby, Iverson, Robinson, and Willingham, and the other two by juniors, Armstrong and Dickson. Immediately following this game, the veterans swamped the frosh nine by 18 to 2. Hunter, moundsman for the victors, gave the freshmen their only two runs in the second inning. Buddy Branton made two homers, Cooke, McClain, Norfleet, and Vogler brought in one apiece, the one freshman homer being made by Pennington.

I never met a guy like him,
So sweet and yet so cold;
Either he’s a gentleman,
Or else I’m growing old.

PAUL & CRYMES, INC.
SPORTING GOODS
415 South Tryon Street
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

VGUAN TAKES ANNUAL TROPHY

Freshmen Win Interclass Physical Improvement Competition

The winners in the 1936-37 Phy-The corrected OCR text is as follows:

Physical Improvement competition were recently announced by Pete Whittle. Sam Ryburn of the junior class was the individual winner of the Physical Improvement Trophy, while the class was the winner in inter-class competition. Ryburn, a freshman, has increased 14 inches since last September when the first measurements were taken. Those measurements considered were the neck, chest, biceps, forearms, and the thighs and calves. In awarding the trophy, not only the increase in measurements was considered, but also the fact that Ryburn had worked in the gymnasium practically every day since school opened. “Red” Miller increased 14 3/8 inches, but he failed to work out in the gym, and for this reason was not awarded the trophy.

Runners-Up
Runners-up to Ryburn were Victor Hollis and McClintock, both of the freshman class; Hollis and McClintock increased 13 3/8 inches, while Gales, another freshman, increased 13 2/8 inches. Second to the freshmen in competition were the juniors, while the sophomores and seniors followed in respective order.

Juniors Lick Sophs In Inter-Class Golf
Intramural golf for the 1937 season began Monday, April 12 with the juniors emerging victorious over the sophomores 2-1 in a nine-hole match played by two-man teams. Yates Faison, junior captain, won over Frank Jones, sophomore captain and low-score man, triumphed over Nicholson. The juniors won in the foursome play. The scheduled sophomore-senior match for Monday afternoon was postponed to a later date. Each team will play twice. Harrison is the captain for the seniors, Branton captains the centennials, and Henning is the frosh golfers' captain.

BOWLING! BILLIARDS!
Rex Recreation and 20th Century Bowling
Air-Conditioned Year Round

Golfers Meet Baptist Team
Wake Forest Last Before Southeastern Tourney April 22, 23.
The Davidson golf team, idle since their successful trip south during the last week in March, will go into action this week against a crack Big Five quartet. The linksmen will face the strong aggregation from Wake Forest on Wednesday at the Carolina Golf Club in Charlotte. Last weekend McClelland challenged Westall in a 36-hole match to determine the number four man for the team. Westall accepted and after spending two afternoons on wind-swept Davidson links, conquered McClelland with the score of 8 to 6, retaining his position on the Davidson team. The Wildcats boast a good season so far, with five wins out of six matches. The match this week will be the last before the team leaves for the Southeastern Tourney in Athens, Ga., April 22, 23. The same team of Bill Snow, Henson Maples, Jimmy Westall, and Charlie Ross will represent the Wildcats in the match this week. On the way to Athens next week, the boys will tangle with South Carolina at Columbia. Upon arrival at Athens, the team will participate in a practice match with the University of Texas.

Freshmen Romp On Two Opposing Nines
Fine Pitching Features Contests; Dunford Leads ’Kitten Batters
This year’s edition of the Davidson freshman baseball team got off to an auspicious start when they tumbled two opponents in their first two games. In the first encounter, the fine pitching of Dave McLean stopped the invading Brevard club, but it took a triple by Dunford and a perfect bunt by Verner in the last half of the ninth (Continued on Page 6)

WINSTON WINS FROM FROSH
Davidson’s Wildkitten Netmen Lose Hard Match By 5 to 4 Score
Davidson's Wildkitten netmen lost to R. J. Reynolds High of Winston-Salem in a close, hard-fought match here on Tuesday, April 6th. The boys from Winston emerged with a 5 to 4 victory, after it seemed a certainty that Davidson would win. In the No. 1 singles match, Rea Tenney lost to Croom of Reynolds High. Tenney, used to playing a game of hard drives and smashes, was caught off balance by the somewhat unorthodox strokes of his opponent, who used a soft ball. Croom won the first set 6-2, but Tenney came back in fine fashion to win the second, 6-1, and then lost the final by a score of 10-8. Loch Hunter, the mighty atom of the freshman team, won his match over Hahn of Winston-Salem by scores of 11-9 and 6-1. Shore of Davidson beat Ezell in a close contest which was anybody's match until the final point. Shore was strong in the second set, which he won, but Ezell finally won the match by scores of 6-2, 3-6, 6-3.

Beall Loses
Harper Beall lost an exceptionally hard-fought match to Hendrix of Winston-Salem. After the score was knotted in the first set at 4-all, Hendrix annexed the next two games and the set. Beall came back to win the second by a score of 6-0. Finally, the little Winston boy annexed the third and final set by 6-4. Bob Wood played beautiful tennis for Davidson, but a broken string handicapped him in the third set and he was defeated by Haltiwanger by a score of 6-4, 7-5. Yeddy Schabel won with ease (Continued on Page 6)

KITTEN RACQUETEERS ADVANCE IN MATCHES TOWARD FINAL ROUND
Aspirants for the freshman tennis team swung into action last week as the first round and part of the second round of the Spring Tournament were completed. In the first round, Beall, Barthwick, Spencer, Finly, and Wood won by defaults. Hollis won over Edwards, 6-3, 6-2; Calhoun topped Crane 6-3, 6-4; McKee downed Weldon 3-6, 11-9, 6-3; Pennington conquered Holland 6-1, 6-1; Akers won from Howell 1-6, 6-4, 7-5; Perrin beat Glenn 6-1, 7-5; Schabel defeated Henly 6-1, 6-3; and Sain downed Withers 6-0, 6-3. In the second round matches that have been played, Tenney defeated Barthwick, 6-0, 6-1; while Hunter, number two man, downed McKee, 6-2, 6-3. Ezell won from Perrin 6-3, 6-3; Schabel beat Sain 6-4, 6-2; Beall defeated Hollis 6-1, 6-4; Akers, in one of the biggest upsets of the tournament, won over Pennington in a three-set affair, 6-3, 5-7, 6-3; the only other remaining match to be played in the second round is between Spencer and Finley.

Good Printing Pays Good Profits
Printing indifferently done usually advertises a concern as one of the kind which does not consider the importance of the Quality of its Product. Have us place your order for ENVELOPES - BILL HEADS - BLOTTERS - LETTER HEADS - TYPEWRITER LETTERS - INVOICES - ENCLOSURES, ETC. Call us 3-5727
STANDARD PRINTING CO.
117 Garland Court, Charlotte, N.C.

Davidson Nine Chalks Up Win Over North Carolina
Ninth Inning Rally Wins Contest as Wildcats Play Excellent Ball

DROP TWO TO N. C. STATE
Errors Costly As Wolfpack Slams Ball Hard
The Wildcat varsity nine racked up their first Southern Conference win at the expense of the University of North Carolina team, 7-5. The Tar Heels got off to a good start when they landed on Pitcher J. D. Hicks for two runs in the fourth inning, but the Wildcats came back in their half to push across three markers and assume the lead. They added another in the fifth, but Carolina had a big seventh inning and pounded across three runs to take the lead before Davidson came back in their half of the inning to score twice and again take the lead. In the eighth, two hits enabled Carolina to tie it up again. But, in the ninth, Bankhead singled, advanced to third on Lafferty’s double down the third base line, and came home as the Carolina pitcher threw wild to the plate. For Davidson, Bankhead, Hicks, Lafferty, and Quick led the attack, while Burnette and Bissett were best in the hitting department for Carolina.

The Davidson nine dropped two contests to the North Carolina State club on Friday and Saturday of last week. In the first game, the Wolves landed on Hicks for ten runs in the third and sixth innings that won the game, 10-5. Wood held the Pack in check for the last three stanzas. The Cats got off to an early lead, but the big bats of Captain Norwood and Sandfoss soon began pounding this lead away. Clark and Quick pounded out triples for Davidson. The second contest started off like it was to be a fine contest, but jittery play by the Cats afield and their inability to hit in the pinches led to their downfall, State winning 11-2. Billy Mann, first sacker, hit a home run with the bases loaded to account for four Pack tallies. Ed Steere hurled fine ball to limit the hard-hitting State batters to 11 hits, but “Grandpa” Gadd, connecting for a powerful triple, wiped out Davidson.

TO GET A NEW Varsity Town
Pity the poor egg (beg pardon, we mean yegg)... he didn’t know that getting America’s smartest young men’s clothes was a very simple and economical procedure. Varsity-Towns keep you at your smartest for only $27.50 to $35.00
Tate-Brown Co.
College Shop