Page Four THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, MARCH 3, 1937

CAGERS AND MATMEN CLOSE WINTER SPORTS PROGRAM

SPORTS AFIELD

SPRING SPORTS TEAMS PREPARE FOR STRENUOUS SCHEDULES

YATES FAISON

Another sport is in its final vain spurt. Basketball has come into its own in the south this year. It still doesn't attract the crowds that follow the games in the mid-west, but a big forward step has been taken. Originated as a game for old men, the hardwood game has developed into a fast, hard sport. Skill, speed, stamina, experience — it takes all these to be a polished basketball player. The modern game calls for perfect conditioning. Blocks, fast break offenses and the like call for tremendous physical abilities. Bruises play their part. Signals and plays must be learned.

Coin Flip

A flip of a coin was resorted to in order to decide whether Maryland or Davidson would get the eighth place in the conference basketball tournament. Some of the boys must have been living right for Lady Luck deserted to the camp of the Old Liners and we lost our chance at the tournament. It was unfortunate that the class of the loop was so concentrated in North Carolina this year. North Carolina, State, and Wake Forest were all among the four seeded teams; the only outsider being the leader, Washington & Lee. Led by Capt. Bill Quick and “Harpo” Peabody, the Cats really opened up when they whipped Carolina, and they closed with a well-earned win over the Erskine Seceders. Up from the frosh ranks, M. D. Hicks and Ned Iverson showed they could hold their own in the fastest of company. John Armstrong capped his career by consistently steady performances. Bill Kiesewetter, Bill Hancock, Johnny Tice, Lawrence Reid, Bill Boyd, Ken Knorr, Wade Barrow and Dan Iverson all covered themselves with glory in the time each played.

Prep Tourney

We are getting our taste of tournament basketball here now (Monday). Those Cadets from Oak Ridge seem to be the class of the tourney with a smooth passing attack. Led by Charlie Sims, those Ridgers did everything with that basketball but make it talk. Those Abbey boys also play a fast, accurate game, and at this time I feel safe in predicting that these boys will play the Ridgers in the finals, but Jim McCachren’s boys seem to pack too much scoring punch. There were originally more teams entered but snow kept all but six in the mountains. These junior college and prep events do a lot of good. The athletes are given a first-hand opportunity to see a college which they might attend. Then again, just the occasion of the tournament calls for a spot to hold the event, and a good will seems to pay its dividends in the end.

George Matthis has been carefully nursing his knee, injured on the gridiron this year. He only hoped to escape injury to his knee during spring practice. Alderman McLean, wishing to help George get his wish, offered to rub his rabbit’s foot on the treasured joint. This done, off to the wars went Sir George. But, alas, Alderman is in the dog-house now — George can hardly move about on his knee now. Those Phi Gams are really out for that interfraternity sports cup. So far, they’ve won tag football, volleyball, and basketball titles. It’s not over yet, but it looks sorta close. The golf course is getting more and more popular. Like some of the smaller, stricter colleges, and prep schools (for example, Richmond U., Woodberry Forest, and McCallie), wouldn’t it be nicer and a lot less expensive to have the boys playing golf and tennis on Sunday? Of course, this is not during church hours. This isn’t radical, and it would produce a healthier, more constructive Sunday. Don’t you think so?

GREY EXE WIN OVER N GRID BA

King and Hand Lead Winners’ Attack; Nickolson Scores For Red Team

CONTEST EVENS SERIES

Intercepted Pass Leads to Winning Touchdown

In a practice football game here Saturday, the Greys defeated the Reds to the tune of 8-6. This was the second scrimmage of the spring football season, and a scrimmage of this kind will be held every Saturday following, on Richardson field. The Red team scored first after they had driven to the 20-yard line. Nickolson was on the receiving end of Lafferty’s bullet-like pass and was over the pay-line as he caught the oval. The Grey team came back, however, and caught Dennis behind his own goal line and scored a safety, to put the score at 6-2. The Greys scored the last and winning touchdown on a line plunge by Hand. They intercepted a pass to put them into scoring position. The Reds showed plenty of power in their passing attack, while the Greys seemed to be stronger on line plays. The passing of Lafferty of the Reds and the running of King of the Greys featured the game. King made the longest runs of the day, two of which were good for 20 yards. This game evened the series, 1-1, as the Greys lost the first game to the Reds.

JR. COLLEGE TOURNEY BEING HELD HERE

Six Entries Battle For Junior Championship

With two colleges advancing into the semi-finals round through byes, the first round of the North Carolina junior college basketball tournament opened at Davidson College Monday, March 1 with top-seeded Oak Ridge playing Boiling Springs. The two colleges receiving byes were Lees-McRae and Wingate. Six teams entered the tournament this year. They were Oak Ridge, Boiling Springs, Wingate, Belmont Abbey, Presbyterian and Lees-McRae. Oak Ridge in the upper bracket and Belmont Abbey in the lower flight were the two seeded teams. The other first-round game was between Belmont Abbey and Presbyterian. The winner of this game had to play the semi-finals, while Wingate met Oak Ridge, conqueror of Boiling Springs.

Oak Ridge Seeded

The Oak Ridge team was seeded one because of its season record which showed fifteen victories out of twenty games played. Tyson, lanky center, and Sims, long-shooting guard, are the main threats of the cadet team during this season. The second-seeded team, Belmont Abbey, was built around John “Monk” Meyer and “Butch” Hadacek, forward and guard, respectively.

Interest Shown

Norman Shepherd, director of athletics at Davidson, is in charge of arrangements and play is progressing in Alumni gym. There is a great deal of interest being shown in the tourney by the students and outside spectators. The officiating is being capably handled by John McCachren, former U. N. C. star, and Bob Allen, Charlotte High coach.

Add on the post office bulletin board of the University of Minnesota: “New Books at Sacrifice. Students quit school to get married, so what? I'd like to sell the books.”

Blackburn College males pulled the wool over their own eyes—wool or cotton, before going to the last dance of the semester. It was an informal “sweater affair” with no suits allowed. Daughters and sons of businessmen make up more than half the student population of Carleton College.

MIGHTY ATOM

Johnny Tice, smallest basketball player in the major college field, is another of the sophomore stars on the Wildcat cage team. He hails from Kentucky.

Vol Grapplers Beat Davidson

Parker, Fort and Ellis Win Matches While Gamble Draws

The University of Tennessee's grapplers nosed out the Davidson Wildcats in Knoxville Saturday night by a score of 15 1-2 to 14 1-2. The best matches were those in the 155 and 175-pound classes. In the former, Gamble and Haynes fought to a draw and in the latter, Vass of Davidson lost to Shofner by a time advantage of one minute and eight seconds.

Summary:
118 pounds—Captain Anderson (T) defeated Blue by a time advantage of 6:33.
126 pounds—House (T) defeated Lowrance by a forfeit.
135 pounds—Captain Parker (D) pinned Pearce in 5:15.
145 pounds—Fort (D) defeated Bradley by a forfeit.
155 pounds—Gamble and Haynes drew.
165 pounds—Ellis (D) defeated Silva by a time advantage of 8 minutes.
175 pounds—Shofner beat Vass by a time advantage of 1:08.
Unlimited—Hayes defeated McFadyen by a time advantage of 2:55.

FRATERNITIES PREPING FOR CINDER TOURNEY

Coach Pete Whittle announced on Monday that the regular spring interfraternity track meet will be held the latter part of next week. Events are held in the 100-yard dash, 220-yard dash, low hurdles, quarter-mile run, and half-mile relay. Field events will include the shot put, discus throw, javelin and broad and high jumps. Since the track team annually drains off the best fraternity talent, it is impossible to pick a favorite from past records. It is hoped that as many of the

EXPERT WORKMANSHIP HIGHEST QUALITY BUFF SHOE SHOP HALFSOLES HEELS O. C. BUFF, Prop.

WILDCATS DOWN ERSKINE GAGERS TO END SEASON

Victory Leaves Cats With Total of Thirteen Wins and Ten Losses

CAPTAIN QUICK IS STAR

Four Seniors Play Well In Last Game of Career

Closing their season in a blaze of glory, the Wildcat basketeers swept to an easy 45-31 victory over the Erskine Seceders here in Alumni Gymnasium Saturday night. Coach Laird started the game with his usual first-string combination of Peabody, Iverson, Hicks, Armstrong and Quick. The Cats jumped off to a good lead and held it during the entire first half, leaving the floor on the long end of an 18-14 score. Erskine tied the count at 28-all midway of the second half, but then Davidson pulled away and was never headed.

Quick Stars

Captain Bill Quick ended his career in grand style, shooting 14 points for individual high scoring honors. He was followed closely by his buddy and running mate, Maurice Peabody, also a senior, with 11. Bill Hancock turned in one of his best games of the season, and John Armstrong played in his usual steady, dependable style. By virtue of this victory, the Lairdmen rounded out their season with 13 wins against 10 losses, a marked improvement overLast year’s record. With the exception of Quick, Peabody, Armstrong, and Hancock, the entire team will return. Wildcat baseball men are waiting for the departure of the snow and cold weather before beginning their practice for the 1937 season. Pitchers and catchers have been tossing the horsehide daily in the gymnasium, but the rest of the candidates have not begun any organized workouts. Only one member of last year’s hurling staff has returned, Herman Yearwood. Other men who will strengthen the mound corps are J. D. Hicks and Parker Connor, graduates of last year’s frosh team, and Elwood Moyer, a converted shortstop. Candidates for the backstop position include Doug Neal, Joe Kellam, and Bill Manson. Coach Laird is watching the weather with an anxious eye, as he wants to round his team into shape in time for its trip at the end of this month through the south, including games with Presbyterian College, Oglethorpe, and Erskine.

Fraternities will start work at once and get their men in shape for the meet. Snow hindered the teams from getting off to an early start on Monday. The purpose of these meets, which are held every year, is to try to discover material for the varsity and freshman track teams. The meet was won last year by the S. P. E.’s. The Phi Gams came in second, and third place was won by the Pika’s.

Davidson and Maryland Tie Wildcats Lose Eighth Berth in Southern Conference Tournament

Eight crack Southern Conference basketball quints will take to the hardwood Thursday, inaugurating the 16th annual tournament in Memorial Auditorium at Raleigh. The committee in charge of selecting the teams to compete was faced with the problem of deciding the eighth place team since Davidson and Maryland were tied for the position. A coin was tossed, and Maryland landed a berth by virtue of this heads or tails method. It is too bad that duplicate awards do not go to tying contestants in this loop.

Washington & Lee, number one seeded, encounters the University of South Carolina in the opening engagement Thursday afternoon at 3 o'clock. The two teams have not met previously this season and therefore a hot contest should be on the make. Other seeded teams are: the University of North Carolina White Phantoms, second; the Wake Forest Deacons, third; and North Carolina State Red Terrors, fourth. The Red Terrors will open the first night’s fireworks against the Maryland Terps, followed by what should be one of the hardest fought games of the meet, which takes place between the N. C. White Phantoms and Duke Blue Devils. This is the first time the two have a first-round tilt, and although Carolina has taken Duke twice, the Devils would like nothing better than to eliminate their old rivals from further competition. Wake Forest and University of Richmond Spiders face each other for the first time, with the winner going on to meet the victor of the Duke-Carolina battle. The Deacs are looked on as the dark horse of the tourney, and they may prove disastrous before it’s all over. It is hard to get a line on the Spiders from their schedule of tournament opposition previously met this season.

The tournament closes one of the most successful seasons in conference ball. Semi-finals Friday night will start at 8 o’clock, and the final comes off at 8:30 Saturday night. Officials are quite satisfied with the outlay, especially all first-round pairings, and the stage is set for the best this part of the country has to offer in the way of basketball.

Dr. Lingle Addresses Club In Spartanburg

Dr. Thomas W. Lingle was a guest speaker at a Rotarian meeting in Spartanburg, S.C., on March 2. Dr. Lingle’s address was on International Problems. The Rotarians of Spartanburg invite Dr. Lingle to speak to them on this subject usually once a year. According to Dr. Lingle, this subject is of great importance. Little do people realize how all the countries of the world are so entwined, that if any major calamity should occur, it would affect everyone. Dr. Lingle is well-versed in this subject and quite capable of delivering such a lecture.

Dr. T. H. Whitehead, assistant professor of chemistry at the University of Georgia, claims that men and women use cosmetics to enhance their natural attractiveness only because they have failed to find “the spring of eternal youth.”

FREE GOLDFISH
DeWitt’s Antacid Powder
With Purchase of One Nyseptol Mouthwash, 1-pt. size or Nyal Milk of Magnesia—or
COLLEGE PHARMACY
Davidson’s “Service Drug Store” 49¢

Carolina Captures Annual Track and Field Tourney

Jones Sinks Winning Point as Whistle Blows to End Cage Contest

Led by George Jones and Nesbitt Elmore, the Phi Gamma Delta basketball team defeated the Pi Kappa Phis by the score of 21-20 in the finals of the Intra-fraternity basketball tournament. The margin of victory was a foul shot by Jones, which rimmed the basket and finally fell in after the game was over, the foul being called three seconds before the final whistle blew. Harmon Woodward, Sam Hemphill, and Tom Corbin were the big noises in the Pi Kappa Phi lineup. In the semi-finals, the Phi Gams nosed out the S. A. E. team by one point. Jones, Elmore, and Darby were outstanding for the winners, while Clark and Willingham were best for the losers. In the lower bracket, the Pi Kappa Phis defeated the Kappa Sigs in a close game. Woodward and Covington led the winners, while Gracey and Grey Hunter were best for Kappa Sigs.

The first and second All-Star teams as announced by the sports managers of the frats in collaboration with Yates and Mokey Faison follows:
First team: Forwards—Elmore (Phi Gams), Woodward (Pi Kappa Phi); center—C. Sample (SPE); guards—Jones (Phi Gam), Gracey (Kappa Sig).
Second team: Forwards—Marquess (Phi Delt), Kenny (KA); Center—Clark (SAE); Guards—Willingham (SAE), Hemphill (Phi Kappa Phi).

FROSH CAGERS ELECT SEASON'S CO-CAPTAINS

Thomas and Harrison Honored By Yearlings

At a meeting of the freshman basketball team last week, Jim Thomas and Benny Harrison were elected honorary co-captains for the 1937 season which has just closed. The Wildkittens played a short, hard schedule this season with no breathers and all but two of their games being against the strong freshman teams of Southern Conference members. North Carolina, Wake Forest, and N. C. State’s frosh won two games each from the Wildkittens, and Duke’s Blue Imps gave them their worst beating of the year in a game at Durham. Charlotte Central High defeated the Davidson frosh in Charlotte early in the season, but the Kittens gained revenge by licking the High School team in a return game played in Davidson.

Nine players were awarded freshman basketball numerals by Coach Chet Chapman. They are: Guards—Thomas, Tenney, and Harnsberger. Centers—Phipps and Ficklen. Forwards—Casali, Harrison, and Wood.

Duke Defending Champions Takes Second Place in Meet At Chapel Hill

GAMMON HIGH SCORER

Carolina’s Ace Trackman Scores Ten Points

Scoring in all ten events, the University of North Carolina's track men breezed to victory in the eighth annual indoor track meet at Chapel Hill, Saturday. Led by speedy Graham Gammon, individual high scorer with 10 points, the Heels garnered 45 1-2 points, while Duke, defending champs, were getting 30. Davidson sent thirteen men to the meet but failed to place, although several rendered very good accounts of themselves. The Wildcats came nearest to scoring in the two mile. Boo Walker was running easily in third place with sixteen of the eighteen laps behind him, when Lumpkin, in first place, “lapped” him. The signal was flashed to Lumpkin that he had only one lap to go. Walker made the very natural mistake of thinking that the signal was meant for himself and sprinted around only to find when he left the track that he was disqualified for having run only seventeen laps. Bill Black, the only frosh entry from Davidson, tied for fourth place with a jump of 5 ft. 6 in. The winner jumped 5 ft. 8 in. Monroe Wicker won his trial in the high hurdles and finished fifth in the finals. Walt Dickson qualified for the 60-yard dash but lost out in the semi-finals. Other Davidson men who went to the meet were Wade Barrow, Bill Hickman, Frank Harrison, Mokie Faison, Dave Woodward, Bill Telford, Frank Brown, Bruce Parcell, and Dave Warden.

A crowd that overflowed the Tin Can, Carolina’s big indoor sports arena, saw seven records fall in the finals of four divisions: conference, non-conference, freshman, and scholastic. Billy Hopkins of Virginia and Bill Lumpkin of Richmond especially thrilled the crowd with record-breaking times in the 60-yard dash and two-mile run respectively.

A. E. D. HEARS SURGEON

Dr. Oscar Lee Miller, a well-known surgeon of Charlotte, will give an illustrated lecture here Friday night at 7:30. Dr. Miller is a very interesting speaker, and all men interested in medicine are urged to be present. This is the fourth open meeting of the year, sponsored by the Alpha Epsilon Delta, pre-medical fraternity. So far this year, many interesting speakers have been presented by this fraternity.

If you can wiggle your ears, you have a little ape-man in you, says Prof. H. R. Hunt of the zoology department at Michigan State College. Pre-historic man had to wiggle his ears to sharpen his sense of hearing. Muscles employed in this action are a definite inheritance from him.

Make Davidson’s Centennial Program a Big Success.

FOR ECONOMICAL PRINTING CALL STANDARD COMPANY
117 GARLAND COURT
TELEPHONE 3-5727
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

PAUL & CRYMES, INC.
SPORTING GOODS
415 South Tryon Street
CHARLOTTE, N. C.