“Buck” Currie To Lead Spring Services From March 16 Through 18

ALENDA - LUX UBI ORTA

The Davidsonian

LIBERTAS

Masks For Dance To Be Donated Free By Junior Dance Group

VOL. XXIV DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., MARCH 10, 1937 NO. 20

Davidson Coaching Staff Secures South Carolina Mentor

Lawrence Spearman Chosen By Action of Executive Committee

TO ASSUME DUTIES SOON

Will Also Serve as General Utility Coach

Monday afternoon saw the addition of a new face, that of Lawrence Spearman, to Davidson’s coaching staff. Coach Spearman will assume immediately his new job of assisting Head Coach Gene McEver with the spring football practice here. He will also help in coaching the track team and serve as utility man on the staff. His election came last Thursday as the result of action by the executive committee of the college. The choice had already been approved by the athletic council.

Spearman hails from Chester, S. C., where for the past nine years he has made football history with the high school teams that he has turned out. He is well known all over the Carolinas as an outstanding coach. During his regime at Chester, his teams won three state championships in Class B football and two in Class A, scoring over 2,300 points to 107 by the opposition. Under his tutelage, many fine athletes were graduated from Chester High School. At the close of last year’s season, his team defeated Miami's highly-touted outfit.

McEver and other members of Davidson's coaching staff expressed their entire satisfaction at having secured such an outstanding man to fill the post left vacant by the promotion of McEver to Doc Newton’s old position after the latter’s appointment to head coach at N. C. State. With McEver at the helm, ably seconded by Spearman and Line Coach Chet Chapman, the Wildcats have a formidable alignment of tutors to lead them into their 1937 schedule.

CUNNINGHAM EXPLAINS HOW TO GET RELIGION

Winston-Salem Minister Discusses Conversation With Nicodemus

“How can I get religion,” was the text used by the Rev. Dr. John R. Cunningham, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church, Winston-Salem, N. C., who was guest minister at the regular vesper services Sunday evening. Dr. Cunningham read as his Scripture lesson from the first to 17th verses of the third chapter of John.

Dr. Cunningham stated that his text was not an easy question to answer because a number of people would say that the whole question of religion would leave them cold. A man could possess all the advantages of a fine religion and still get to feel dreadfully homesick for something that life affords. He stated that Jesus Christ is able to make that contribution to men who are lonely in life, and that there was a place in religion for emotion. Dr. Cunningham stated that emotion could be shown by the people at a football game or in a war, but most of them failed to show it in religion. But, he declared, the absence of emotional upheaval does not mean a man has forgotten God, and that religion is not a matter of only getting oneself saved, but it has a much higher motive. The true aim is to glorify God and bring him to a life to praise him.

To get religion, Dr. Cunningham stated that people must use good judgment and be deeply concerned about it and not be only interested in one’s profession. Then, he said, one must trust God accurately and lend ourselves to Christian faith and have a life by faith rather than by sight. He stated that most people wanted faith to be in them before they actually did anything about it, and that it did not work. His third and (Continued on Page 6)

TRANSFERRED

MAJOR CHARLES W. SEIFERT, who is at present attached to the R. O. T. C. staff at Davidson College, has received notice of his transfer from this post, effective at the close of the current college session in June. Major Seifert is the instructor in the advanced courses of military science and tactics.

SEIFERT WILL TRAVEL OVER UNITED STATES DURING THE SUMMER

Major and Family Will Leave In June For Trans-Continental Tour

GO FIRST TO CHICAGO

Officer May Go To Porto Rico Next Fall

Major and Mrs. Charles W. Seifert, who leave Davidson for good this spring, have mapped out a trans-continental tour to California and back for the oncoming summer months. Their two young sons and two little dogs are to accompany them on this tour. They will leave about the middle of June and go to Chicago by automobile, where they will get one of these home trailers that have recently been taking the country by storm. From Chicago, they will go to Yellowstone National Park with the intention of spending one week among nature’s beauties. They anticipate an altercation between the pet dogs and the government-protected bears. Leaving Yellowstone, they will roll westward to Portland, Oregon. Thence down the Pacific coast to (Continued on Page 6)

West Point Physical Exams Given Corbin

Tom Corbin, Davidson senior and football player, has just completed the physical examinations required for entrance into the U. S. Military Academy. Corbin journeyed to Washington last week to take the examination and arrived back in Davidson on Thursday. The examination was given in the famous Walter Reed Hospital in Washington. Corbin stated in an interview that he does not yet know the results of the exam, and doesn’t know exactly when he will be advised of the results. While in Washington, he met Ralph Smith, of the class of '34. Corbin said that he is to take the validating, or mental examination in June, after graduating here. These will be the real test of whether he will get to enter the academy or not.

WASHINGTON AND LEE DEBATERS WILL MEET DAVIDSON TEAM HERE IN IMPORTANT DEBATE

Port and Sugg to Make Final Appearance on Campus As Debaters

TO BE HELD IN EU HALL

New Method of Deciding Debate to Be Tried

Thursday night at 8:30 P.M. in the Eumenean Literary Hall, Davidson debaters will meet the Washington & Lee University debating team. The subject for the debate will be “Resolved: That Congress should be empowered to fix minimum wages and maximum hours for industry.” Washington & Lee will defend the affirmative, while Davidson will uphold the negative.

Davidson will be strongly represented by Harold Sugg and Tyler Port. Both of these men are experienced debaters, each having been on the debating team for the past three years. In this debate, these two men will make their final appearance as debaters on the Davidson campus. For the past three years, Sugg and Port have upheld opposite sides in every question under discussion. Now, however, they are united for the first time to fight an important issue in Roosevelt's New Deal policy.

The method for deciding the debate will be a novel one on the Davidson campus. It might be called a change in opinion decision. Before the debate, the audience will be handed slips of paper on which the query is stated, and on which each person will indicate his present opinion toward the issue. These slips will be collected, and after the debate, additional slips will be passed out on which the audience will again indicate its opinion toward the issue. The decision will then rest on the change of opinion after the audience has heard the debate.

EDITION OF MAGAZINE TO APPEAR IN MARCH

“Beautiful Girl” Contest Results to Be Revealed in Spring Issue

The Spring issue of Scripts ‘n Pranks, featuring the complete results of the Campus Questionnaire and the winning pictures of the beautiful girls submitted to the editor, will appear March 18. The contest of the girls’ pictures was held two weeks ago with the judges making their decisions last week, while the Campus Questionnaire was distributed on Tuesday of last week and votes were totaled on Wednesday so that the results might be sent to press with the rest of the material for the magazine. About 450 questionnaires were answered.

The lead story of this issue is by an anonymous author who calls himself Hugh Stone. It is entitled “Spring Sorrow.” In addition, there will be Gib Smith’s “Black Love” and a story by Al Cade, “The Wish of Don Jose.” There will also be plenty of poetry, jokes, and cartoons. All of this material will be beneath a cover by Sam Ryburn, which Editor Hal Overton terms “the best that has ever appeared on a Davidson College magazine.” This issue contains only about twenty pages, but the May number, which will be a special Centennial issue, will be about forty pages.

Quadwranglers Meet

The Quadwranglers’ Club will hold its meeting Thursday night, at which time Coach Gene McEver and Athletic Director Norman Shepard will show and comment on the football movies of last season.

YMCA

AL. CURRIE TO GIVE SERVICES

Speaker Is Former Student Body President and “Y” Secretary Here

TO BEGIN ON MARCH 16

Mr. Currie Also to Speak at Vespers on March 21

The Rev. A. L. “Buck” Currie, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church in Huntington, W. Va., has been secured to speak at the annual Y. M. C. A. spring services, announces “Mac” McClure, “Y” secretary. These services, held twice daily at night, will begin on Tuesday morning, March 16, at the regular chapel hour and will extend through the next Thursday night. Mr. Currie, however, will remain on the campus Friday and Saturday in order that students may confer with him personally. His final appearance will be at the Sunday evening vesper service.

Mr. Currie is a graduate of Davidson, class of 1921, having matriculated from Fayetteville. As a student here, he was a popular leader engaging in numerous activities. While at Davidson, Currie won the declaimer’s medal, was president of the student body, a member of the freshman-sophomore council, the Pan-Hellenic council, and the “Y” cabinet, and played varsity baseball as a star pitcher for three years, serving as captain one season. He was a member of Kappa Alpha fraternity, and the Omicron Delta Kappa leadership fraternity.

Currie’s seminary training was secured at the Louisville Theological Seminary. Later, he served as Y. M. C. A. secretary at Davidson, and married a daughter of Dr. W. J. Martin, former president of Davidson. He now speaks frequently at young people’s meetings andconferences; The spring services are the last that the Y. M. C. A. is to sponsor this year. This group annually has two series of meetings: these spring services and the fall series. Last fall, the Rev. W. M. Elliott of the Druid Hills Church in Atlanta, was the speaker. Formerly the “Y” had charge of a vesper service every Sunday. Now, however, the college has taken over the Sunday service, and the “Y” is limited to these two series of meetings. Consequently, they endeavor to make them as worthwhile as possible, always engaging outstanding speakers for the events.

SIGMA ALPHA EPSILON ABOLISHES HELL WEEK

First Local Chapter to Break With Old Tradition on Campus

At their regular meeting last Thursday night, North Carolina Theta chapter of Sigma Alpha Epsilon, national social fraternity, voted unanimously to abolish “Hell Week” permanently. Although the leading social fraternities, through their national chapters, condemned the traditional hazing period known as “Hell Week” for many years, this had little influence on the Davidson campus, as on most other college campuses. The local chapters continued the practice for various reasons, arguing tradition and insisting on the specious theory that such an institution actually “stiffened the backbone” of freshmen and brought out latent qualities. For various reasons, public opinion in many locals of leading fraternities has veered around to regarding “Hell Week” as of doubtful value. In taking this action, North Carolina Theta chapter is the first local of any national fraternity on the Davidson campus to end this long-established custom, which action is directly in accord with faculty views.

EDITOR REPORTS THAT ANNUAL PREPARATIONS NEARING FINAL STEPS; TO COME OUT IN MAY

Materials For Publication Must Be in During First Week of April

DEADLINE IS APRIL 15

Spring Sports Pictures Will Be Taken in April

“Everything has to be in by a month from today.” These fateful words fell from the lips of John Abernethy, and he referred to the materials for the annual, of which he is editor. He further said that all the material must be ready for the printers at that time. Then it will take a month for them to get the finished product ready for distribution. April 15 has been set as the deadline for material. The staff is planning to take the pictures of the tennis, track, golf, and baseball teams about April 20, thus finishing up the sports section. They are also planning to take the pictures of the honorary fraternities last of all. Abernethy stated that they already have the photographs of all social fraternities and classes, and that no changes can be made. He said that the pictures of all sponsors of any groups are to be handed in within three weeks. Abernethy then said that all persons having snapshots that they wished to turn in should write their name and room number on the back of the print. These snapshots may be turned in to any member of the staff. The best of the lot will be selected and used in the snapshot section of the annual. To those who keep asking when the annual is coming out, Editor Abernethy definitely stated that it would be distributed a few days before exams. He requested that all those desiring extra copies see the Business Manager, George Norfleet, right away.

LINGLE SYMPATHIZES WITH VIEWS OF DRY

Agrees With Objectives But Not Wholly in Accord With Methods Used

Dr. Walter L. Lingle, president of Davidson College, Monday night said that although he was in sympathy with the objectives of the dry forces in North Carolina, he was not entirely in accord with the statement which was issued by Mr. Cale K. Burgess, vice president of the organization, and signed by the name of Dr. Lingle and other well-known persons in North Carolina. Dr. Lingle is a member of the Advisory Committee of the dry forces of this state. During the time when he was preparing his report for the meeting of the trustees, this statement came to him and was laid aside on a table in his office where other circulars and matters of pressing importance were laid. The statement sent to Dr. Lingle said that if he was in accord with the contents of it, the organization would like to issue the statement with his name on February 23rd. The letter also said that if no reply from Dr. Lingle was received by that date, the statement would be issued with his name signed to it. As Dr. Lingle was busy with the meeting of the trustees and the statement did not look to be important, he knew nothing of the statement until it was issued bearing his name as one of the signatures. Dr. Lingle said in a letter to Mr. Burgess following the issuing of the statement: “I am in hearty sympathy with the great objectives which the United Dry Forces of North Carolina are trying to attain. I cannot approve of all the methods that are used. I would not have signed this particular document.”

(Continued on Page 6)

MAESTRO EARL MELLEN, who, with his ten-piece orchestra, will provide the very danceable music for Junior Speaking. The organization will play for three dances at the Hotel Charlotte, March 19 and 20, under the sponsorship of the class of '38. Friday night's formal will be a mask ball.

SIBERIANS GIVE VARIED CONCERT PROGRAM OF NATIVE COMPOSITIONS

Fourteen Musicians Render Sacred and Folk Songs in Tuesday Recitals

VASILIEFF LEADS GROUP

Singers Appear in Costumes of Old Russia

The Siberian Singers rendered another varied and enjoyable concert in Chambers Auditorium on Tuesday evening, March 9. The fourteen musicians were under the direction of Nicolas Vasilieff. During the first half of the program the singers wore robes like those of the Moscow Cathedrals of the seventeenth century. During this portion they sang five sacred numbers: Divine Praise by Bortniansky, the signature of the group; Hallelujah, an Old Church Chant; Credo, by Gretchaninoff; The Last Supper by A. Lvoif; and Lord Have Mercy, by Lvoffsky. During the remainder of the program the group was dressed in quaint national costume of old Russia. The remaining numbers sung were: five folk songs, Pirate Song, Jolly Inn Keeper, Prisoners Song, Soldiers Song and Laughing Polka; three Gypsy numbers; and were followed by Gypsy Refrain and Old Dark Eyes. The Siberian Singers have recently been touring the country and have been regarded with great esteem at every point. Each member is a soloist of unusual ability, yet together the singers attain a vocal blend as beautiful and sonorous as the tones of an organ. Their range is phenomenal from contra G to treble E. The force of spirit and intensity of emotion which characterize the Siberian Singers enable them to explore into the heart of a song. Priceless experience as members of the famous former choir of Russia gives their word its world authority. Davidson indeed feels proud to have been able to secure again such a famous group to give a concert on the campus.

Greek and Latin, the so-called “dead” languages, have been assured a long life at Northwestern University as a result of a bequest of $30,000 from an alumnus to be used entirely for scholarships in classical languages.

Junior Class Will Offer Music in Mellen Manner For Junior Speaking Set

Dances Will Be Held in Hotel Charlotte on Week-End of March 20

MASK BALL ON FRIDAY

Gala Program Announced Before Students

The class of 1938 will present Earl Mellen and his orchestra at their Junior Speaking dances to be held in Hotel Charlotte Ballroom on Friday and Saturday, March 19 and 20. This set of dances, which originated many years ago in connection with an oratorical contest for members of the Junior class, will introduce an innovation to the Davidson campus in the form of a masked ball on Friday night. The dancers will be provided with masks which will be worn until intermission. Plans are being made for attractive decorations in the ballroom, and balloons, confetti, and serpentine will be furnished for the entertainment of the crowd. Mellen’s organization hails from Pittsburgh, Pa., and with its distinctive “Melodies by Mellen” has enjoyed a rapid rise to fame while playing at the Chatterbox Room in Hotel William Penn. His orchestra has been in constant demand for college dances this winter, and has played at Carnegie Tech, Duquesne, the University of Pittsburgh, and the University of Virginia. Jim Dorsett, president of the Junior class, has been in charge of the committee making arrangements for the set. This group, composed of representatives from the social fraternities, includes Bill Crooks, Philip Yates, Faison Dorsett, Chubby King, Teeny Fred Dennis, Jim Arrowsmith, and Henry Lyons. Tickets for the set went on sale last week-end and may be obtained from members of this committee.

ORTHOPEDIC SURGEON ADDRESSES PRE-MEDS

Dr. Miller of Charlotte, Explains Treatment of Thigh Fracture

Dr. Oscar Lee Miller, well-known orthopedic surgeon, of Charlotte, addressed Alpha Epsilon Delta, pre-medical fraternity, last Friday night in the fourth of a series of open meetings. Dr. Miller practices privately in Charlotte and is also the directing physician of the Gastonia Children’s Hospital. In his talk he devoted the first few minutes in giving advice to those going into medicine, stressing particularly the need of application and diligence while preparing for the medical profession. The bulk of his talk, however, centered around the new development of recent years on thigh fractures. Throughout, he illustrated his points with slides and X-ray pictures. Contrasting the old method with the new, he pointed out that once it was a painful and expensive operation, whereas, now, it is simple and inexpensive, taking only about five minutes for completion. Instead of keeping the fractured limb in a cumbersome cast for a period of three months or more, the operating surgeon drives in a specially constructed nail to bind the broken parts together. Thus, while in the hospital, the injured person is allowed comparative freedom, and in a few months he is usually walking about. This new technique, invented by a doctor in Boston, shows promise of being very successful. Dr. Miller is one of the first surgeons to have used this new method.

Dr. Charles H. Elliot, New Jersey commissioner of education, reports that 80 percent of the state’s high schools are already conducting automobile-driving courses and that colleges and universities should follow suit.