Page Six THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, SEPT. 29, 1937

Philanthropic Society to Meet in Remodeled Hall
Literary Group to Hold First Meeting of Year on Oct. 5

DEBATES TO BE GIVEN
Membership Is Expected To Exceed Seventy

Following the completion of the remodeling of its hall, the Philanthropic Literary Society will hold its first meeting of the year on October 5. Certain freshmen who possess eligibility will be guests. The society holds that for a freshman to become a member, it is necessary for him to write a paper and for it to be passed by the active members.

The officers for the coming year are: Dick, president; John Mawhinney, vice president; Daniel Gilliam, secretary; and Sam Webb, treasurer.

Series Slated

Dr. I. Shewmake, chairman of the committee on lectures, stated that plans have been made for a series of lectures. However, details have not been completed.

JUDGE STATES CONTROL COURT WILL OPERATE

Faculty Club Honors Newcomers Tuesday

FACULTY HOLDS SUMMER SESSION

(Continued from Page 1)

Dean declared the meeting a success, noting the attendance of new members. The Faculty Club held a meeting Tuesday to welcome new members, including Major and Mrs. Steel, Mr. and Mrs. R. deV. Wilson, and Mr. and Mrs. J. C. Ware. Mr. S. Logan was also present.

Johnson’s Barber Shop

FINE MEATS Fit For A King
Quality Groceries!
J. K. HAMPTON
Deal Bldg. - Main St.
PHONE 193

DeLUXE ICE CREAM
MOORESVILLE, N. C.
Phone 56

PRINTING
117 Garland Court - Charlotte
PRINTERS EXTRAORDINARY to SCHOOLS and COLLEGES
SEND US YOUR Programs, Codes, and Circulars for A COMPLETE PRINTING SERVICE
Prompt Service Reasonable Prices

HONORARY FRATERNITY SCHEDULE 1937 - 1938

FIRST AND THIRD WEEKS
TUESDAY WEDNESDAY THURSDAY FRIDAY
Scabbard and Blade O. D. K. Band Phi and Eu Societies Alpha Epsilon Delta Sigma Delta Sigma Upsilon Y Cabinet IRC

SECOND AND FOURTH WEEKS
Gamma Sigma Band Alpha Phi Sigma Epsilon Delta Pi Le Cercle Francais Delta Phi Alpha Red & Black Masquers and Y Cabinet Alpha Psi Omega Ministerial Band

AROUND TOWN

Several boys graduated from Davidson College during the past week. Fairfield Schenck, who graduated with his parents, and his wife, Mrs. A. C. Spotts, have been visiting in Davidson at the home of her daughter, Mrs. W. N. Mebane.

Mr. DeWolf of Warrenton, Va., who graduated from Davidson College in 1930, visited Miss Maude Vinson during the past week.

Miss Laura M. Gamble left last week to take up her teaching duties in the Aurora high school in Aurora, North Carolina.

Mesdames Malcolm Lockhart, Lawrence Spearman, and R. V. Williamson have recently been asked to join the Tuesday Club.

At the first open meeting of the year, the Twentieth Century Club went on a hayride to Harris’ Lake. A barbecue supper was held upon arrival at the lake.

The new Davidson high school gymnasium, which has been constructed through the summer months, is almost completed and ready for use, with $14,000 being appropriated for the building.Mrs. W. N. Mebane and Mrs. E. J. Erwin entertained Miss Libby Rhett at dinner in Charlotte last Thursday. Misses Mary Louise Moffett and Mary C. Withers spent the weekend in Davidson. Miss Moffett is attending Converse College in Spartanburg, S.C., while Miss Withers is at Greensboro. An Austin boy plans to enter college in September 1938, at the age of 12. Educators think his speedy advancement is due to his ability to read rapidly and remember what he reads. He can read backward equally well.

Dr. Watts And Dr. Vowles To Review Books

On last Friday evening, the eve of the Erskine game, a very high-spirited pep meeting was held in the new gymnasium. Dr. C. K. Brown of the faculty and Ned Iverson of the team made short talks. Dr. Brown said that the reason why Davidson played such wonderful football was because everybody at Davidson loved football. He further said that the faculty talked about its love for football. Ned Iverson, end on the varsity eleven, said that the Wildcats would send the Erskine team due west to Due West. Also taking part in the pep meeting was a portion of the band, in charge of Julian Helms. In addition to the music and the talks, there were several cheers led by the five regular cheerleaders, Elmore Holt, Bill Boyd, Nesbit Elmore, Bobby Gish, and Dick Taylor. Quite a few upperclassmen were present but the freshman class was not fully represented.

NO DEFINITE PLANS

(Continued from Page 5)

Persons to take the place of last year’s seniors will entail recasting the whole script, but would not be too big an obstacle.

'CATS TOP STUBBORN ERSKINE ELEVEN

(Continued from Page 1)

Lafferty to Williams to Dennis was the feature of the drive. In the fourth period, a steady stream of substitutes answered Coach Gene McEver’s call and held the Flying Fleet scoreless while threatening several times themselves. Bill Davis and Fred Stair were the spearheads of the reserves’ attack.

Dr. G. B. Watts and Dr. Vowles of Davidson, who are frequent contributors, will publish further book reviews in the forthcoming issue of that publication. "Abroad" is a unique quarterly which has recently celebrated its tenth birthday. It is published by the able staff of the University of Oklahoma, but it has reviewers all over the United States and in foreign countries. In addition to contributed articles, there are reviews in English of books published in German, French, Spanish, Italian, Portuguese, Romanian, Catalan, Dutch, Norwegian, Swedish, Danish, Polish, Russian, Czech, Slovene, Yugoslav, Finnish, and Hungarian. The magazine is especially useful in helping libraries make their selections of foreign books. Dr. Vowles contributes reviews of German and Norwegian books, and Dr. Watts regularly reviews French books.

Drama Essays Ready For Final Judgment

Critical essays entered in the Columbia Broadcasting System's recent Shakespearean Cycle contest were submitted to the contest board for final judgment recently. The nine best papers discussing Columbia's Shakespearean plays were chosen by regional award boards consisting of noted educators and Shakespearean experts. These essays were entered in the final round, identified by number only, and will be judged by such noted authorities as Major Bowes, vice president of the Shakespeare Association of America, and Dr. Hardin Craig of Stanford University.