Page Two The Davidsonian — Founded By the Class of 1915

1937 Member 1938
Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON AVE. NEW YORK, N.Y.
CHICAGO - BOSTON - LOS ANGELES - SAN FRANCISCO

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879.

DICK VOWLES Editor
CHARLES MOORE Managing Editor
Fitzhugh Dade Managing Editor
Ovid Bell Managing Editor
Joe Calvin Managing Editor
Wesley Coghill Managing Editor
Terrell Porter Managing Editor
Perry Sloan Managing Editor
Bill Marquess Sports Editor
Owen Cooke Associate Editor
Sam Cothran Associate Editor
Euclid Fain Associate Editor
Hector McGeachy Associate Editor
Yates Faison Associate Editor
Sam Ryburn Associate Editor
Henry Baker Associate Editor
Andy Turner Collection Manager
John Latimer Advertising Manager
Hilt Milks Asst. Advertising Manager
Wesley Coghill Circulation Manager
Terrell Porter Circulation Manager
Sam Hemphill Business Manager

That is the best government which desires to make the people happy and knows how to make them happy.
—MACAULAY

We extend our deepest sympathy to F. Bennett Harrison in the recent loss of his grandfather.

The Reckless Fool...

HAVE YOU ever heard the rattle of a dying man’s last breath? Or seen the look of horror in the stare that faces death? Have you ever heard a person scream and writhe in sudden pain And look down at a mangled arm that will not move again? Or have you heard the moaning and smelled the stench of gin And seen the gory, bloody gap where once an eye had been?

When your car is doing fifty, have you ever felt the yen To let ‘er have another notch ‘n do another ten? When a pokey guy's ahead of you, have you ever had the thrill Of swingin’ out’n passin’ him upon a dangerous hill? Or have you ever felt the old car scream ‘n lurch ‘n swerve As you let ‘er have the limit while you took a sudden curve?

Have you ever seen the wreckage of an automobile crash, With flesh and steel made into a morbid, gruesome hash? Have you ever seen the entrails 'n the ears, 'n arms 'n hands 'N hat ’n shoes ’n fingers of what once had been a man? Have you ever seen the jagged bone stick through a mangled leg And heard the blood-smeared victim pray ‘n beg?

HAVE YOU ever had the keen sensation of runnin’ up to a stop sign ‘n slap ‘em on ’n skid? Did you ever pass a schoolyard ‘n give the horn a slam 'N drive close to a gang o’ kids 'n see ‘em jump ‘n scram? Did you ever take a quart o’ rye ’n swallow four or five 'N take the old bus down the road 'n show ‘em how to drive? Have you ever seen a little child all crumpled up ‘n still— Who tried to run across the street while a car came down the hill?

Have you seen men’s brains on fenders? Have you seen blood in the street? Have you seen them stare at the bloody stumps of things that once were their feet? Have you ever heard the crash ’n scream ‘n seen the ghastly stare On the face of what had been the driver ‘n the rest of the man not there?

Morbid ‘n gruesome gory this, I’m sorry, but don't you see, This was not meant to be read by folks as tender as you ‘n me. It was meant for the thoughtless ‘n careless, who kill ‘n maim ‘n mar— The reckless fool who is to blame — the man in the other car.
—By Phil Braniff.

Improve Thyself...

A member of the College faculty makes this remark to his classes every year: “When you graduate from Davidson, you will not be adequately equipped to take up any sort of technical work in your field—no more so than when you graduated from high school.” And that statement is all too true. That professor added that Davidson's contribution to the individual student was “cultural development and advancement.” But that takes some explanation.

Since the College course gives only a general smattering of varied types of knowledge as it should in an institution of this type, just what do we get out of Davidson College? First, college life, not particularly that at Davidson either, should develop the individual personality in the ability to get along with one's fellow man. It makes the student more able to stand the much greater gait to come in life. It should make the student more independent and aware of his abilities and failings. In the second place, the College courses at Davidson do give the college man a good well-rounded knowledge upon which to build. After all, our learning does not end in college. Nor do we wish to specialize too soon and thus leave other sides undeveloped. Lastly, the Davidson student can get a large percent of the benefits of his college career from extra-curricular activities and cultural development outside of the college curriculum. No student should go through college without furthering his interests and talents athletically, musically, in literary lines, in public speaking, etc., where his abilities may lie.

If you graduate from Davidson College without attempting to advance yourself in every possible line of endeavor, within certain limits, you have done yourself a grave injustice—you have passed up an opportunity that will never again come your way.

Contrary to popular belief, it is the co-ed and not the chorus girl who is holding most of the model jobs these days. Advertisers demand an intelligent, animated face, which reflects a definite personality, as well as beauty and a streamlined figure.

Car Or Coffin?...

Do you want to turn your car into a coffin? You are perhaps one of a large number of Davidson students who take to the open road on weekends. And, if you do, you in all probability do your traveling by car. Driving to and from football games is dangerous business. Maybe this poem quoted from the Daily Texan will make you think just a little bit:

Did you ever run up to a stop sign ‘n slap ‘em on ’n skid? Did you ever pass a schoolyard ‘n give the horn a slam 'N drive close to a gang o’ kids 'n see ‘em jump ‘n scram? Did you ever take a quart o’ rye ’n swallow four or five 'N take the old bus down the road 'n show ‘em how to drive? Have you ever seen a little child all crumpled up ‘n still— Who tried to run across the street while a car came down the hill?

Have you seen men’s brains on fenders? Have you seen blood in the street? Have you seen them stare at the bloody stumps of things that once were their feet? Have you ever heard the crash ’n scream ‘n seen the ghastly stare On the face of what had been the driver ‘n the rest of the man not there?

Morbid ‘n gruesome gory this, I’m sorry, but don't you see, This was not meant to be read by folks as tender as you ‘n me. It was meant for the thoughtless ‘n careless, who kill ‘n maim ‘n mar— The reckless fool who is to blame — the man in the other car.
—By Phil Braniff.

With The Staff

For a good many years there has been agitation on foot to secure public speaking instruction for Davidson. Many editorials, pleas, and petitions appear during the school year, but seemingly without effect. Laboring under fond delusions at the close of the session, and hoping that our expectations will be realized, we come back term after term in the fall to find that nothing at all has been done—that is as far as any plans are revealed to the student body. Is it possible that serious efforts could be made by the faculty and administration with so little results?

Complaints are launched constantly against The Davidsonian for its inaccuracy and lack of real news. If instead of destructive and cutting criticism, the paper would receive constructive co-operation from the members of the student body and the faculty, a better publication might result. It is rather discouraging to be assigned a story and have the professor satirize mistakes of past issues and finally end up by refusing to make any statement or saying that things have not developed sufficiently yet.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Campus in Cartoon

HARVARD'S ENDOWMENT WOULD FURNISH EVERY MAN, WOMAN AND CHILD IN THE UNITED STATES WITH A ONE-DOLLAR BILL!

PHILLIPS FINLAY, HARVARD, AVERAGED 290 YARDS ON 14 TEE SHOTS IN A ROUND AT PINEHURST, N.C. IN 1927!

THANKS TO ALL SPORTS RECORD BOOK

WHEN 20,000 HOMECOMING BALLOONS WENT INTO THE AIR AT THE MINNESOTA-IOWA GAME LAST FALL, 17 TANKS OF HELIUM WERE USED TO SAFEGUARD SMOKERS! THE MINNESOTA HOMECOMING COMMITTEE ABANDONED HYDROGEN BECAUSE OF DANGER AND PAID $500 FOR 20,000 INFLATIONS!

Letters to the Editor

WHAT ABOUT MAGAZINE'S BOAST?...

Dear Editor:

In the last copy of The Davidsonian, the magazine intends to shed a little light on the mysterious painting to be released. If that be the case, how does the magazine expect the student body to be gullible enough to swallow an article that may be mere fabrication? Anybady could write a fictitious article and bring the embarrassed escorts of the staff.the ob-| Prevaricating (roller coasters, y’- | ticle of that sort and claim that it | jects-of “fire alarmists,” cat calls, | know), very delightful friend, Har- | cation of a member of the | was done by this or that person. | the magazine intends nt pub- | Mish this sort of thing. We think the staff has that knowledge. Of | magazine to reveal the perpetrator | though, which makes us wonder what would be the punishment, if any, if the man were put on the spot. It seems to be the attitude on the campus that, if the culprit were an upperclassman, then the paint- | ing of the tank was a mere childish | course, we really don't expect the, | It was interesting to note in the; | We do not believe that the culprit | reception which the | has or will reveal his name, and | friend receives on the campus. The | , the tank, a crime of the worst sort | has been perpetrated, —SUSPICIOUS STUDENT. | UNWANTED CUSTOM AT DAVIDSON... Dear Editors: An affliction peculiar to the Dav- | of the water tank. According to, | idson campus has reached a stage | that article, the painter intends to | far beyond what should have been | Among | relate his experience but no inti- | the normal checking point. | mation is given that his name will | Year after year, it seems edi- | torials have been written about the | young Duke game was a glaring example of this most undesirable situation. Students or visitors on the cam- | Genic Mitchell, with Fats and Rab. | And a Tri-Delta trio, Gin- | lady companions and other strange noises. This state of affairs is recognized | lady | By Yours Truly, his desk covered with scribbled memos of Columbia cut- ups, sacrifices these beautiful spec- imens of pure exhumation, not be- cause of generosity for their vic- tims, but rather, — intimidation. However, if Nature should shortly add considerably to my stature, length-wise and width-wise, the same will appear unabridged at some future date. This Columbia is quite a town Metro-something... nice people beaming welcomes, hordes of beau- tiful girls... The Big Apple Nite Club with sweating colored dancers delighting white spectators. This place of much interest — for- merly a Jewish synagogue — now with stained glass windows reflect- ing the current craze... a bit iron- ical. Police escort for football team's bus — hope Davidson men noticed there were no boos at the referee-from-Carolina stands when heavy penalties sent our team to a touchdown... Entire atmosphere congeniality itself. According to reports from Fri- day night dance at Presbyterian College, “Appleing” still the thing there, but Sat. night at U.S.C. gym dance found it noticeably absent. maddening multiplicity of misbe- gotten mimicry, reminiscently bar- baric... Perhaps a foresighted here, if they ever have a dance. Davidson's daughters there... Jane Wyllie, Robin Hood, Georgie Underwood, Jean Stough, Flo Davis, Frances Butler, Nancy Hovis, Sophie Walk- er, Barbara Davis, and Margaret Farrell. Also two prospective Homecomers, Loretta Morgan and Clarkson, provocatively; riet Boyd and inconvincible but re- freshing Essie Davis — understand “as being an ugly one here and else- | their three dates had marvelous that it is only right for them to | release the name of the painter, if prep schoolish noises surely must | notice themselves greatly | whim. But if a freshman painted | here, and those who create such in the minority. It is agreed that it is not unfair to point the accusing finger to the lower class for the majority of the volume, but the blame is not theirs alone for they are prompted and encouraged by some of the more uncultured members of the upper classes. It is hardly necessary to say that such conduct, though possibly in (Continued on Page Six) The Weekly Time Table Wednesday—Oct. 20— 7:15 P. M.—Editorial Staff of The Davidsonian meets at the office. with Dr. Egbert W. Smith of Nashville, Tenn., as guest speak- er. 8:00 P. M.—Scheduled meeting Monday—Oct. 25— of Sigma Upsilon. 9:00 P. M.—"Y” Cabinet meeting. Thursday—Oct. 21— 7:00-10:00 P. M.—Social frater- nities hold their weekly meetings. 7:15 P. M.—Student pep meeting to be held in new gymnasium. Friday—Oct. 22— 7:15 P. M.—Davidson College broadcast over Station WSOC, Charlotte. Freshman reception at Social Center. nounced. Saturday—Oct. 23— 2:30 P. M.—Varsity football game with Centre College at Danville, Kentucky. Sunday—Oct. 24— 10:15 A. M.—Student Sunday School class meets in Shearer Hall. 6:30 P. M.—College Vesper Ser- vice in Chambers Auditorium. The time will be an- 12, Noon—Student meetings are held in Chambers Auditorium following the regular chapel ex- ercise. 7:00 P. M.—Scheduled meeting of Gamma Sigma Epsilon. Tuesday—Oct. 26— 7:00 P. M.—Scheduled meeting CIGARETTES of Alpha Phi Epsilon. To The LADIES OF DAVIDSON We Make Loveliness Lovelier MAYFLOWER BEAUTY SHOP Mooresville Phone 184 ERNEST ELLISON, Inc. ERNEST ELLISON ROBT. E. ELLISON Fire, Casualty and Marine Insurance 113-115 East Fourth St. WHEN IN MOORESVILLE —SHOP AT— KENNERLY’S GROCERY STORE HIGH QUALITY. LOW PRICES Charlotte, N. C. TRY OUR X-ER-VAC The Crosley Machine For FALLING HAIR DAVIDSON BARBER SHOP —JOE CALVIN. time... A note to seniors: Mr. Henge- veld has instituted a very fine ser- And now you can insure yourself against flunking a course! At Emory University in Georgia two students have started an agency that will insure passing a course or even making an “A” in it. Premiums for the scholastic pol- icy are computed on the basis of your average, the grades made pre- viously under the teacher in ques- tion by the applicant, and the num- ber of flunks and “A's” given year- ly by that teacher. On jewelry and fountain pens, premiums must run for at least two months before any adjustment will be paid. 128 NORTH TRYON Breathe a sigh of relief, fellows, tho, top spots being Hykils and jaunt, and came All praises! Columbia renounces its Frankenstein — a monotonously Pan-Hellenic council will outlaw it. adopted. WEDNESDAY, OCT. 20, 1937 CHUBBY KING vice designed for your sole benefit, Best take advantage of an excellent opportunity for future benefit to yourself — jobs beat breadlines any day. Understand Watson Street under- went embarrassing experience at our neighboring young ladies’ school — girls are impulsive things, aren't they?... Also heard that his three confederates, Boggs, Aker- man, and our old sidekick, Bounder Bryant, mutually shared the festivi- ties — the chaperon got so excited, didn't she?... attractive young maiden went down to the game with Harry McLaughlin, spent the night with Dick Towel’s back with Cage Brewer — very attractive. Some of our group spurned the offerings of Columbia and headed North to Loves in Greensboro — needless to say, the Woman's Col- lege... Tom Abbott for the fifth consecutive weekend to see Sea- man... Also Elmore Holt, Geo. Jones, the Ganiers, Julian Squires, John Ranson, Masie Hall, Owen Cooke, Charlie Pegram, Ed Glenn, and Charlie Yates. Hope and ex- pect the Town Talk did a business. Doty and Dan Iverson had diffi- culty at Winthrop when sheltering curtain failed to cover their feet — the informer read feet... Won- der how Springs Pharr liked the Carolina side with his very patrio- tic lady-love — also consternation of U.S.C. S.A.E. chapter upon see- ing certain pin somewhere... Hen- ry Cutchin with the S&W... Charming visitors to campus Monday — Beverly Bradley, Flora Coker, Barbara Kalber, and Lil- lian Hayes... Can Bob McClellan explain the gawdy shirt that now graces his shocked wardrobe — the address is an explanation... Plonk and Sawyer again magnetically drawn toward the mountains—this time to Appalachian and ladies... Lyon with White's girl... gen- eral mourning by Tennessee boys over financial losses — Alabama. Only sixteen more days to Home- coming and entry into society — better dig up white tie and tails— wonder how we'll look... so un- fine we CARTON usual! This Collegiate World Terms of installment payment are offered by the firm so that a student may pay a small amount down, the rest later, and may drop the policy if he feels that he’s going to pass the course and thereby lose the premium. Courses may be insured for any- thing up to $100, the premium vary- ing with the amount of the policy. The agency will insure on any grade down to F. Names of clients are kept con- fidential so that teachers may not know what students are insuring themselves and for what grades. * * * ALL POPULAR BRAND PER PACK. 12c PER CHARLOTTE, N. C. HENDERSON JEWELRY SHOP WATCH AND JEWELRY REPAIRING NOW IN KNOX BUILDING