WEDNESDAY, DEC. 15, 1937. THE DAVIDSONIAN; Page Three

Harding Fetes Question Relates Adventures Leave State For Rhodes Tryouts

Harding Fetes In Michoacan Mountains German Clubs of the Week Play and Talk in German

Hervey Ross, Davidson Grad, Tells of Attempt on His Life

For quite some days now, headlines have been screaming daily to the people of the United States tidings of war
in the Far East. A letter has recently been received by Prof. Avery Patton from Hervey Ross, who graduated from
Davidson College with the class of '36 and was a biology lab assistant last year. Ross’ recent experiences in which
he almost lost his life are recorded in the letter.

Traditional Moravian Customs Observed

Eleven members of the student musical organizations were entertained with a Moravian Lovefeast by Miss Katherine Haynes of Winston-Salem in
the Banquet Hall of Chambers. At Davidson, as everywhere else, the Christmas Lovefeast is a traditional affair, especially for the
student body. The program consisted primarily of the singing of traditional Christmas carols such as “Joy to the World,” “Silent
Night,” and “Hark the Herald Angels Sing.” Accompaniment for these songs was given by Mrs. Kenneth Pfohl, pianist, and Mr.
James Weber of Statesville, cellist. Following the singing of the first song, Dr. Walter Lingle gave a short address, explaining
the purpose of the Lovefeast and expressing everyone's appreciation to Miss Haynes for the feast. Following this, more songs were
sung, and while the music was going on, the traditional coffee and spiced buns characteristic of the Lovefeast were served.
Dr. Lingle pronounced the benediction when the service was concluded. Many members of the faculty were guests as well as
the members of the orchestra, the band, and the glee club.

Hill, Street, Boggs Leave for Rhodes Tryouts

Haywood Hill of Richmond, Va., Watson Street of Talladega, Ala., and Wade Boggs of Shreveport, La., have left college for
the Rhodes Scholar tryouts in their respective states. Hill left yesterday for Richmond, where he will take the tests on
Dec. 18. Street will take the tests in Birmingham, also on the 18th. Boggs will compete in the state of
Louisiana. These men are three of the six Davidson men to take the examinations. The other three, “Pete” McKnight, Dick
Vowles, and Bill Kiesewetter, will take them in the state of North Carolina. The candidates have the choice of being
examined either in their home state or in the state in which they are at school.

Bell Rings Bell

As you have already anticipated, our question this week was: “What policy do you think the United States should follow
in regard to affairs in the Far East?” Here are the answers:

Buck Powell, Sophomore—“I think we should ignore the recent incident, but by all means, stay out of the situation. Our
citizens have been warned that they are staying there at their own risk; so I see no reason why we
should risk getting involved. The United States should stay out by all means from the situation.”

Whites A Rarity

A white person is rare in these parts, so naturally they were taken much aback and soon were curious. However,
they pretended to lend the way out for us. Their manner began to be rough, and when one ordered me
to stop, I definitely became suspicious of their intentions. I dismounted from the mule and asked again, we had some
drunks come out on horseback at us.

Committee Sets Rules To Govern Parking

The Committee on Buildings and Grounds has recently issued a set of rules to govern driving and parking on the
campus. The rules were made necessary by the increased number of cars and the parking problem it created. The regulations
are as follows:

1. Please observe “No Parking” signs.
2. Do not park on the wrong side of the road or in areas where parking is not allowed.
3. Avoid parking in front of, and on the south side of, Chambers Building.
4. Commuters will be requested under the new regulations to park their cars in the designated areas.
5. The area in front of the Chambers Building is not to be used for parking by local persons.

Jackson Goes To Washington

General Committee meeting in Washington, D.C. last Saturday. Walter Williamson, president of Omicron Delta Kappa, attended the meeting.making a plea
to take action. The guy wheeled his horse and addressed the crowd with wholehearted preparation. They showered us with cards
over there, and everyone in this place will be affected. Recent events probably will hit in the midst of the
head. His plan will add great reform. The wholesale bombardment is going on. The citizens over there should be responsible
for themselves if they remain in war territory after being given a chance to get out.

Charlie Bixler, Senior—
"Having been born in a foreign country and knowing the policy in the past, I would say that we ought
to get out and leave behind what is already there. Of course, that brings up one problem—the missionaries. But the
missionaries go to serve the Lord, not the government, and therefore do not feel that the government is obligated to
protect them. Japan, however, we can condemn. We did the same thing with Mexico, Spain, Nicaragua, and others. We should
not intervene in their conflicts."

Dr. Walter Lingle has accepted an invitation to speak before the Pan-American Presbyterian College Union, which will meet in Chicago
on January 18 of next year. His topic is “Presbyterian Leadership in Education.” The Pan-American Presbyterian College Union is composed
of presidents and other representatives of all colleges in the United States under the auspices of the Presbyterian Church. It
will meet just prior to the meeting of the Association of American Colleges, to which delegates will be sent from
all colleges and universities in the country.

Another noted speaker on the program will be Mr. Barclay Acheson, associate editor of the “Reader’s Digest.” He is also
known as a world traveler.

Quadranglers Will Entertain
The Quadrangle Club will entertain on the night of December 15. Dr. Lingle spoke Sunday in the First Presbyterian Church
in Durham, N.C. He held several meetings there.

Rodman Williams, Junior—
"The way I look at it, if Jesus had not come, we would not have the books of the New
Testament. There would have been no Golden Rule. Dr. Lingle continued his illustrations of what life would be if Christ
had not come and showed how different the deaths of Socrates and Paul were. Socrates lived before Jesus, and Paul,
of course, just after."

Faculty and Students
A majority of the group pictures for this year’s “Quips and Cranks” will be taken in January. The theme of
the book has not yet been revealed, but it will be used for the keynote of this year’s edition. Some
candid camera shots are being taken at present.

Sam Smith, Senior—
"I think we should stay out of war. Even our citizens over there should be given a chance to leave,
and then left there at their own responsibility. I think the U.S. should take a strong stand against all the
propaganda we're getting. The Japanese are not entirely to blame. But first, last, and always, I am out of war!"

M. B. SMITH JEWELERS, Inc.
128 N. Tryon
Give Furniture This Christmas
PHONE 168

MERRY CHRISTMAS GREETINGS
from
M. H. GOODRUM
NORTON’S
GULF GAS AND OIL
MOORESVILLE, N.C.
Zenith & RCA Radios
