Page Eight THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, OCT. 27, 1937

Bust of Ney Presented to Fred Smith

Initiated Into French Group ——— Feature of Meeting Is Presentation of Comedy By Initiates

On Tuesday, Oct. 26, Le Cercle Francais held its monthly meeting at the home of Dr. G. L. Watts. Since this meeting was the initiation meeting for new members elected in September, the program was given by the initiates. President Sam Cothran called the meeting to order. After the minutes had been read, the new members gave a performance of the French modern comedy "Allo, Allo," managed by the president, with the manager of the broadcasting, Bill Pryor; Sam Crane; John Raynal, the male trio of the female artists.

A bust of Marshal Michel Ney of France, famed Napoleonic leader thought to have escaped execution in Paris and escaped to America to become a country school teacher, has been presented to Davidson College. The members of a group who conducted a Ney program at the Junior Chamber of Commerce Luncheon are pictured above. They are, left to right: Marshal Ney LeNeave, vice-president of the Junior Chamber of Commerce, who presided; Fred Smith, alumni secretary of the college; Jim Smith, program chairman; Horace Hicks, sculptor; Charles Allison, who made the presentation; and LeGette Blythe, of The Charlotte Observer staff who has written a recent book on Marshal Ney. (Courtesy Charlotte Observer).

BAND PRESENTS RECITAL

(Continued from Page 1)

After a radio program, the band will sing together. The trip is being made possible by the alumni and athletic associations, and friends of the band. Tentative plans have been made for the itinerary which the band will travel. They probably leave the campus on Thursday, November 11 to Charlottesville, Va., where they will play a concert at the University of Virginia. Leaving Charlottesville Friday morning, the band will arrive in New York City that night and will be the guests of the Davidson Alumni Association at the Hotel Wellington. It has been planned for the band to leave New York early Saturday morning for Cambridge for the Davidson-Harvard football game, after which they will remain in Boston Saturday night. They will leave Boston Sunday morning and probably attend church in New Haven. The band will leave Washington Monday afternoon for Staunton, Va., where they will play a concert at Mary Baldwin Monday evening. The trip will end with the group arriving on the Davidson campus Tuesday afternoon.

HONOR MEN CHOSEN

(Continued from Page 1)

Lawrence Reid, Phi Gamma Delta, holds the position of co-manager on the Student Council. Watson Street, freshman adviser, has directed his talents to work in the registration of all the delegates from two until five o'clock. After the registration, there will be an informal reception. On Friday, the delegates will be the guests of the College at a luncheon at the Y. M. C. A., at which they will be addressed by Frank Jeter, director of State College News Bureau. Friday night, the delegates will be entertained with a banquet and dance at the Sir Walter Hotel. A business meeting is scheduled to be held Saturday morning at nine, followed by Governor Hoey’s address. Many important items will be brought up at this meeting, among which is the possibility of a student news broadcast. A special feature of the convention will be the Warren Yearbook Traveling Exhibit, which includes annuals gathered from all parts of the United States, and is considered the best and most complete collection of outstanding college annuals ever collected. Honorary Fraternity Council is also captain of the track team.Adjutant on the R.O.T.C. staff.

Meats Fit For A King
QUALITY GROCERIES
J. K. HAMPTON

With a cast like this:
Cary Grant, Constance Bennett, and Roland Young. This picture is so different from the usual production that it can't be resisted. It tells the story of a reckless man and a wife who lead poor innocent little Mr. Topper astray. It sounds crazy, and it is crazy, but Modern Screen gives it a “B” and Screen Guide says, “don’t miss it.”

Food-bolting students now face the prospects of military marches for breakfast, leisurely fox-trots for lunch, and languid waltzes for dinner.

PLUMBING SERVICE
Call... R. W. DUNCAN
Mooresville, N.C.
Phone Day 180 — Night 2028

DeLUXE ICE CREAM
MOORESVILLE, N.C.
Phone 56

DAVIDSON THEATRE
Thursday and Friday— “High, Wide and Handsome”
Saturday— “Partners in Crime”
Monday and Tuesday— “You Can’t Have Everything”

(Continued from Page 1)
The dance sets have voted to prohibit it. The main defense of the Little Apple is that it does not take up so much room. It is also much less spectacular, and more like the usual dance steps.

FAILURE RULES
(Continued from Page 1)
A student will be allowed to remain until the end of the session.

WILDCATS ARE DOWNED
(Continued from Page 4)
Jimmy German, Centre halfback, was easily the outstanding star of the day and turned in a brilliant performance of fancy running, passing, and defense work. In the Centre line, Martin was outstanding. For the Wildcats, Captain Bailey Williams turned in by far the best game. His defense work was superb, and time after time his booming kicks kept the Kentuckians out of the danger zone. Fred Dennis also played outstanding ball for the Wildcats, as did Bill Davis and Bill Bolin.

Another new rule concerns students repeating courses for a second time. Students repeating a course are expected to pass the course, but if a grade of E is made in the subject at the end of the semester, the student will be allowed to remain until the end of the session.

THE SODA SHOP
Sandwiches, Smokes, Magazines
OPEN SUNDAYS, P.M.
Mooresville, N.C.

Geo. Mathis
REPRESENTATIVES
FLOWERS
Lem Kornegay

Next Week—Thursday and Friday— “Life of Emile Zola” Paul Muni

(Continued from Page 1)
MELLEN BAND TO PLAY
Last spring, after filling an eighteen-week engagement at the Westwood Supper Club in Richmond, Mellen played six weeks at Club Edgewood, Albany, N.Y., and then made a northern tour. At the first of September, Mellen played at two southern beaches and made such a hit that he was engaged for next summer. The orchestra then returned to Richmond, where they opened the Tantilla Garden.

REGISTRARS TO HOLD MEET
(Continued from Page 1)
Then will follow a discussion of the topics presented and other problems. After a business session, at which officers for the next year will be selected, the meeting will be adjourned.

“Let’s take a look at the prices,” said a customer the other day, “and I'll know whether or not I’ve been wasting my time reading about your styles.”

He’s right. Price is important and a man who is all dressed up with no place to go isn’t in as bad a spot as the man who is all dressed up and has no money left over to go with.

You'll like our fall clothing prices for they allow you the quality, the designing, and the fabrics you want without taking your mind and money away from the other things you'd like.

FALL SUITS AND TOPCOATS
From $27.50 to $35.00 at...
J. O. JONES, Inc.

A lot of smokers have found that Chesterfields have a taste they like. They’ve found out for themselves that Chesterfields are MILDER. You can prove for yourself that Chesterfields SATISFY.