Page Four

Cindermen Swamp First Meet of Season

Indians In

THE DAVIDSONIAN

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 24, 1937

Baseball, Tennis, and Golf Teams Make Southern Trips

By YATES EASON

Once again vacation time nears—though it lasts but a week. What are you going to do? Are you going to spend your time inside or outside? I mean to ask you whether you plan to spend the day asleep, the night for activity, or are you going to get outside for golf or whatever you prefer? Here’s just a thought from the corner. Why not decide now to take your golf clubs home, your tennis racquet, or whatever you prefer for exercise in the spring. The “ole vim, vigor, and vitality” will be all with you when you return.

No Sponsor

I’m now going to bat on a question that has arisen. Did you know that practically every officer or leader of any importance on the campus has a sponsor in the annual but the captain of the football team? In almost every college or university, the football captain is one of the first to get a sponsor but here he is overlooked. This phase of activity—the varsity football team—is one of the most prominent and respected organizations on the campus. Outside of what name he makes for himself, the captain receives little reward for his four years of bruises and work for the college. Why shouldn’t he deserve a sponsor too?

The inter-fraternity track meet was a big success again this year. Johnny Sadler was the big individual noise of the meet. He won the century, the two-twenty, tied for first in the hurdles, and broad jumped. Other outstanding winners were: Bruce Edgerton, Chubby King, Bailey Williams, Al Cumbie, Milton Crisp, and Tom McAlpin. Much interest was aroused and who knows but some future cinder star may have been discovered.

Why now can’t a campus-wide golf tournament be run in addition to the annual fraternity team competition? The golf course is swarming with players so why not give them a chance to match skill (and luck) against one another. A moderate entrance fee could be charged and thus purchase a suitable trophy for the winners.

Athletic Situation

While many students go home for Easter, most of our spring sport teams are on the road. The baseball team will be definitely whittled into shape when it comes back. The golf team is definitely up to par and will give a good account of itself before the year is out. The tennis set-up is still muddled. The tournament is not near completion yet and the season is already under way.

A movement—and a worthy one—has been started to remove the present situation whereby double cuts are given to a student attending football games off the campus. This is a funny situation where the students are penalized for supporting the college team in their games on enemy soil. Why not encourage the students to carry the Wildcat spirit away from the campus by following and backing our teams? Certainly, the present system doesn’t encourage this as a practice. One such trip costs a student two-thirds of the cuts allowed for a whole semester.

When next this paper is published a new hand will guide this page and write this column. However, in this, my swan song, I would like to thank publicly such fellows as Bill Marquess, Perry Sloan, Ken Lawson, and the others who have helped so much. I’ve attempted to be fair in giving credit where credit was due. Special thanks are due to Fred Smith for cooperating in giving you pictures of our sports celebrities. Again I say, if you have enjoyed this page at all, we feel we have done our job and can lay down the task with a feeling of satisfaction.

VARSITY NETMEN

Varsity Netmen Oppose Court Aces of Many Southern Colleges

TAKE NINE MEN ON TRIP

Two Promising Freshmen Accompany Varsity

The varsity tennis team left early Monday morning on its annual trip through the south, playing teams from the best colleges and universities in Dixie. The first match of the year was played with Presbyterian College Monday afternoon. Tuesday the Wildcat netters opposed the University of South Carolina sextet, while today they play Emory University in Atlanta. Before returning to school the tennis team will also meet Mercer, Georgia Tech, Rollins, and several other college and club teams.

Seven of the eight seeded stars fought their way to the semi-finals, but there the competition became unusually keen. Top Seeded Carl Carlson was the first favorite to meet defeat. Jimmy Reinhardt caught the team captain on an off day, and by brilliant playing, taking advantage of Carlson's errors, he won a grueling match, 6-3, 5-7, 7-5. “Bones” Woodward played superbly against Kenny, but finally fell before the veteran, 5-7, 6-3, 7-5, while Harry Frampton disposed of Wilson Northcross, the most promising sophomore, in three sets.

Wade Boggs, playing a delayed third-round match Wednesday afternoon, met unexpected competition in Ed Cloyd but came through strongly in the third set. He played his quarter-final match also Wednesday afternoon, defeating Lloyd Feutchenberger easily. On the basis of the tournament play, Frampton, Boggs, Kenny, Reinhardt, Captain Carlson, and Woodward were selected to make the first tennis trip. Along with these six were Howard Covington, manager, and Rea Tenney and Locke Hunter, Davidson’s star freshman netters.

RIFLEMEN NEAR CLOSE OF SCHEDULED MEETS

Kunz, Thieling, Warlick, Pharr, and McLean Shoot in Hearst Meet

The Davidson College rifle team, under the leadership of Major Ballard, is nearing the end of its season. Only one more match is scheduled, which is due to be shot sometime soon after the holidays. Last week the team fired the last position in the Hearst Trophy match. This match has been going on for a month now as the members only shot one position each week. The object of this lapse between each position was so that the members would be rested and would have plenty of time to do their best shooting. The scores of the match were as follows: 1—W. E. Kunz, with 185 points out of a possible 200. 2—Thieling with 182. 3—Warlick, with 175. 4—Capt. Pharr with 174. 5—David McLean with 155. The four positions in which the participants had to shoot are standing, kneeling, sitting, and prone. All men shot very well in all but standing, according to Captain Pharr.

This year’s team is being paced by W. E. Kunz, a freshman from Tennessee, and Thieling, last year’s captain. These two are about even in their scores so far, and the last match may decide the winner of the medal for the best shot. Says Pharr, “Kunz is a mountaineer from Tennessee, and his ability as a rifleman came from the constant practice he received while participating in the family feud against the Coys. Kunz became an expert shot and could crack off a Coy at 500 paces.”

TENNIS STARS PLAYING MANY

Pictured above, (left to right) are Charlie Ross, Bill Snow, Jim Westall, and Henson Maples, winners in the Medal Golf Tournament. These four boys will represent Davidson as this year’s golf team. All four men are veterans from last year’s brilliant foursome, which was runner-up in the Big Five competition.

Baseball Men Show Promise

Coach Laird Expresses Optimism Regarding Team

With the arrival of spring on the Davidson campus has come daily practice for the twenty-odd players hopeful of making Coach Laird’s first-string nine. The team is coming along well for the little practice it has been able to get and the genial coach seemed to be in an optimistic mood regarding the season's outlook the other day. There are no injuries to speak of on the squad with the exception of Shorty Bankhead’s arm. Shorty was in a wreck last summer and pulled some shoulder muscles which are still giving him trouble when he throws. However, itis being treated daily and the doctor holds out hope that the short one will be able to use it by the end. In the event that his wing does not respond to treatment, Sam Hemphill will take over the keystone position. This substitution will make little difference to the team defensively, but will hurt somewhat. Last year Shorty was lead-off man and managed to get on base with surprising regularity.

Rudsill Looks Good

First base is still a toss-up between Swede Johnson and Teeny Lafferty, and Laird said that his mind could not be made up until after several games have been played. In the meantime, a hot battle is being waged for the position vacated by Lafferty in centerfield. John Rudisill, stocky slugger, is a leading candidate for this post, but will have to reckon with Parks Hand, Dick Lindsey, Jim Terry, and John Irwin. Eddie Steere joined the list of hurlers several days ago when Coach Laird decided to give him a chance on the mound. He has a good fastball, and the coach has been giving him considerable practice in throwing to the bases, which seems to indicate that he is planning to use Eddie. At shortstop and third base, Bill Quick and Asbusy Howard have practically cinched positions and are working together nicely in practice. Laird’s main problem now is to strengthen the hurling corps and find some sluggers.

415 South Tryon Street
PAUL & CRYMES, INC.
SPORTING GOODS
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

SPRING SPORTS SCHEDULE

March
22—Varsity Tennis, Presbyterian, there.
23—Varsity Tennis, South Carolina, there.
24—Varsity Tennis, Emory, there.
25—Varsity Tennis, Georgia Tech, there.
26—Varsity Tennis, Mercer, there.
27—Varsity Baseball, Presbyterian, there.
Varsity Golf, University of Tenn., there.
Varsity Baseball, Wofford, there.
29—Varsity Baseball, Oglethorpe, there.
Varsity Golf, Amherst, Asheville.
Varsity Tennis, Rollins, there.
30—Varsity Golf, Emory, there.
31—Varsity Golf, U. of Georgia, there.
Varsity Baseball, Oglethorpe, there.
Varsity Baseball, Erskine, there.
Varsity Tennis, Furman, there.

April
2—Varsity Baseball, Duke, here.
Varsity Golf, Jr. College of Augusta, there.
3—Varsity Baseball, Duke, here.
Varsity Track, U. of S. C., there.
Varsity Tennis, N. C., here.
6—Varsity Baseball, S. C., there.
9—Varsity Baseball, N. C. State, here.
10—Varsity Track, Citadel, there.
12—Varsity Baseball, North Carolina, here.
13—Varsity Golf, U. N. C., Charlotte.
Varsity Baseball, N. C. State, here.
Varsity Golf, N. C. State, Charlotte.
14—Varsity Tennis, U. of Richmond, there.
15—Varsity Baseball, Catawba, here.
16—Varsity Tennis, Country Club of Va., there.
17—Varsity Tennis, U. of Va., there.
19—Varsity Baseball, Duke, there.
Varsity Tennis, William & Mary, there.
Varsity Baseball, Duke, there.
Varsity Track, V. P. I., there.
21—Varsity Golf, Yale, Athens, Ga.
22—Varsity Baseball, Wake Forest, there.
Varsity Tennis, Erskine, here.
22-24—Varsity Golf, Southeastern Tour: Athens, Ga.
23—Varsity Baseball, Maryville, there.
24—Varsity Track, Furman, here.
Varsity Tennis, N. C. State, there.
Varsity Baseball, Oglethorpe, here.
27—Varsity Tennis, Duke, there.
28—Varsity Track, Wake Forest, there.
Varsity Tennis, North Carolina, there.
29—Varsity Golf, North Carolina, Greensboro.
29-31—Varsity Tennis, State Tour., Chapel Hill.
30—Varsity Golf, State Tour., Greensboro.

May
1—Varsity Baseball, Catawba, there.
3—Varsity Tennis, Wash. & Lee, here.
4—Varsity Baseball, N. C. State, there.
5—Varsity Baseball, N. C. State, there.
6—Varsity Baseball, Wake Forest, here.
7—Varsity Golf, U. of Virginia, there.
8—Varsity Track, Duke, here.
10—Varsity Baseball, South Carolina, here.
14—Varsity Baseball, Wake Forest, here.
15—Varsity Baseball, North Carolina, there.
Varsity Track, South Conference Meet, Durham.
Varsity Golf, U. of Georgia, there.

CATS TRACKMEN OPANK CATAWBA

Wildcats Pile Up Tremendous Lead in Losing Only Two Second Places

CATS WIN BY 118 TO 8

Barrow and Peabody Pace Field With 11 Points Each

The Davidson trackmen opened their cinder season Saturday on Richardson Field by defeating Catawba College, 118 to 8. The Wildcats literally ran away from the Indians who were only able to muster up enough power to take two second places and three third places. Wade Barrow and Maurice Peabody paced the field with 11 points apiece. Lundholm copped two thirds and tied for one second to account for half the total Catawba score. The meet was run in a cold, drizzling rain and consequently all times were slow. Not having been pressed very hard, the ’Cats did not have to show their mettle in any of the events.

Summary of the Meet:
100 yard dash—Faison (D) and Dickson (D) tied for first place; Wilson (D) third. Time 10.5.
220 yard dash—Barrow (D) first; Wicker (D) second; Smith (C) third. Time 27.5.
440 yard dash—Hickman (D) first; Bixler (D) second; Abbott (D) third. Time 55.6.
880 yard dash—Melton (D) first; Poe (D) second; Turner (D) third. Time 2:10.
Mile run—Parcell (D) first; Woodward (D) second; Kuykendall (D) third. Time 4:49.
Two mile run—Walker (D) first; Brown (D) second; Telford (D) third. Time 10:44.
120 yard high hurdles—Barrow (D) and Wicker (D) tied for first; Wilson (D) third. Time 16.7.
220 yard low hurdles—Barrow (D) first; Wicker (D) second; Bode (C) third. Time 24.0.
Pole Vault—Fort (D) first; Sample (D), Peabody (D), Dinges (C), and Lundholm (C) tied for second. Height, 11 ft.
High jump—Peabody (D) first; Barrow (D) and Wicker (D) tied for second. Height 5 ft. 2 in.
Broad jump—Peabody (D) first; Melton (D) second; Lundholm (C) third. Distance, 19 ft. 9 3/4 in.
Shot put—Warden (D) first; Miller (D) second; Lundholm (C) third. Distance, 36 ft. 5 in.
Javelin—Johnson (D) first; Johnston (D) second; Moseley (D) third. Distance 166 ft.
Discus—Johnston (D) first; Vause (D) second; Moore (C) third. Distance 113 ft.

HOME SAPIENS

“If you sleep on the floor you can’t fall out of bed,” says Professor T. V. Smith of the University of Chicago. A professor makes such a statement and gets it published. We wager if a student said the same thing he’d be put into a psychiatric ward under observation.

KAPPA SIGS WIN INTERFRATERNITY TRACK TOURNEY

Pikas and KA’s Follow Leaders in Closely Contested Meet Friday

PRELIMINARIES TUESDAY

Winners in Early Trials Fight For Titles

The Kappa Sigmas emerged victorious in the second annual running of the inter-fraternity track meet with a score of 36 points. Led by their one-man track team, Johnny Sadler, the KA’s copped second place with 24 points while the Pikas came in third, having garnered 17 points. Johnny Sadler was the individual star of the meet taking first places in the 100 yard dash, 220 yard dash, and tying for first in the 120 yard low hurdles. Outside of his outstanding performance, the points were well distributed among the many contestants who survived the preliminaries held Tuesday and Wednesday afternoon.

Sadler breezed home in the century race in 10.9 seconds to set a new intra-fraternity record. He was closely followed by Ken Knorr and Johnny Allen. While winning the 220 in 24.5, Sadler was given some stiff competition by Rufus Plunk and Buddy Branton who ended up second and third respectively. Bruce Edgerton won the quarter mile with a time of 58.3, while Tom Henderson and Charlie Elder took the remaining two places in the event for the Kappa Sigmas. The 660 yard run was won in the fast time of 1:42.4 by McAlpine. Gordine Cleveland was second and Bill Kiesewetter third. The Kappa Sigmas continued their win in distance events as Warren Gaw won the three-quarter with a time of 3:54.4. Second was Dave Colvin and third Cumbie. King and Sadler finished the low hurdles race in a dead heat while Branton was third. Time 14.7. Carl Carlson and Bill Black garnered two more firsts for the Kappa Sigs in the broad and high jump respectively. Carlson won with a leap of 19 feet; Ken Knorr and Sadler also placed in this event. Harmon Woodward placed second in the high jump while six men (Continued on Page 5)

MEDICATED WITH INGREDIENTS OF Vicks VapoRub

Modern successor to old-fashioned cough syrups...more convenient...less expensive...lingers longer in the throat.

Davidson Theatre

To be right, WEAR WHITE

All-white shoes are the accepted fashion for Summer evening occasions. You'll be proud to wear these Crosby Squares, faithfully reproduced from a hand-made original.

IVEY & CO.