Page Six THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, OCT. 20, 1937

College Students’ Idea; WILDCATS DROP GAME

Music from Hollywood AROUND TOWN

(Continued from Page 4)

Of The Season Mate

Robinson, a sophomore from Chester, S.C., says: “Just what does the college student expect in the perfect mate?” This question, presented to a cross-section group of students at Miami University, elicited answers one-third of which were so general they could be applied to either sex. The one point common to all was consideration for others and high morals, with emphasis on honesty. 

Indiana Co-Eds Present Opinions on New Rules About Flowers

Oct. 19.—Joe University will not say it so often. The new rule is that a man student may send his girl flowers only three times during the school year. Many do not turn the greeting into a match-making occasion, but the rule is a good idea, because after many corsages, the girl would lose interest, says Shaw. 

Music from Hollywood

The Kil-Kare Club met Thursday evening at the home of Miss Margaret Adams.

The Reverend and Mrs. T. E. Rodda of Sandusky, Mich., have been visiting Mr. and Mrs. Thane MacDonald.

Mrs. J. P. Williams and son, Aldin, visited in Atlanta with Mr. J. Williams for a part of last week.

Dr. W. L. Lingle has recently returned from a trip to Memphis, Tenn., where he addressed the meeting of the Tennessee Synod.

Miss Sally Arbuckle of Lewisburg, W. Va., visited her uncle, Dr. H. B. Arbuckle, during the past week. They were entertained by Miss Caroline Lingle, Major and Mrs. Frontis W. Johnson.

Mr. and Mrs. Alec Haliburton of Jackson are now visiting Dr. and Mrs. W. Porter. Mrs. Haliburton is the daughter of Dr. and Mrs. Porter.

Mr. and Mrs. E. F. Clark of Pittsburgh have recently been visiting Dr. and Mrs. F. K. Fleagle.

Miss Mary Young was hostess to the Thelemite Club at her home last Friday evening.

Mrs. K. J. Foreman gave a tea at her home last Wednesday afternoon in honor of Mrs. T. E. Rodda.

Dr. and Mrs. J. W. MacConnell entertained Mr. and Mrs. Mannice from Augusta, Ga., last week. Mrs. Mannice is widely known as a golfer and sportswoman throughout the south.

The second grade had a very enjoyable program at the chapel exercises held at the Davidson public school Friday morning.

JUNIORS HAVE MAGICIAN

(Continued from Page 1)

Mr. Ernest Beaty returned to his home Thursday after undergoing a thyroid operation in Charlotte.

People go to be fooled, and if they aren't fooled, they immediately say the performer is no good. There's no such thing as doing a wonderful trick over and over—once it fails the secret is exposed.

MINT EXHIBITS

Besides having appeared in many wonderful opportunities for art their own states offer.

Roosevelt, whose critics said was en route to a dictatorship, stands now with other Presidents whose Congresses took the bits in their teeth and ran away.

Miss Dorothy Smith of Bloomington, championing personal liberty and

JUNIORS BEAT ALL TEAMS

(Continued from Page 4)

Peoria over the Seniors. Marquess and Sample scored twice for the winners and Darby crossed once for a good measure, making the final score, 30 to 0.Laissez faire in the parade before the S.C. game). . ; Shaw (Continued from Page Five) 

The leader did not set a fast enough pace; but as slow as the procession was, she said, “it’s as distressing symptoms campus courtship, approved of the flower rule but held the regulation to limit the corsages,” she said, “so long as they don't try to tell us how many dates to have.” 

The lack of cooperation has become so bad that members of the administration made no effort to keep up the continuous line. The Court of Control is apparently in a state of suspended animation. It is the duty of every member of the upper-classes to report violations; BUT that doesn't excuse the Court from performing its specific duty, the duty for which it was created, (Art. XI) that of disciplining the lower-class. 

FRESHMEN ... 

Dear Editor: 

Many in the shelters are of the opinion that the freshman cap is optional. Only sixty boys were present who went home over the weekend, tended to pull the average attendance down below the normal figure. The Sunday School leaders not only invite, but they urge you to attend each Sabbath. 

HOLLY SMITH 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Dr. Brown Talks (Continued from Page Five) 

For the month “Qualities of a Christian.” This topic is one of the most interesting topics that could have been selected for this particular time. Dr. Brown's topic last Sunday was “Respect for our fellow man,” and on the preceding Sunday, his topic was “Generosity.” 

You will find warmth and friendliness at the University. 

Sorority pledges at the University of New Hampshire are convinced that the quickest way of losing five pounds in ten days is to go through rushing. 

North Carolina towns, Shaw has performed before Rotary and Kiwanis clubs, and at the People’s Leadership Conference at Montreat, and at Davidson for four summers before delegates to the Presbyterian Young People’s Conference. He finds many letters from theater managers and preachers. 

The Museum has a large picture called “Our Christian Era,” which shows the horror and utter futility of war. 

Dr. Harding further stated that the exhibit should be of special interest to students of the Carolinas and of other Southern States having sections of the Blue Ridge. This indicates, he pointed out, what the exhibit should be of special interest to students of the Carolinas and of other Southern States having sections of the Blue Ridge. This indicates, he pointed out, what war is also their motif, and twisted, mangled soldiers (piled in heaps or spattered against wagon wheels and trees) are all posed in the drawings. 

In addition to these works there are many drawings and paintings of the Great Smoky region, the color, harmony, balance, pleasing contrasts, and rhythm, although these elements are conspicuous features in this beautiful and very striking art exhibit. 

VISIT 

W. H. I. T. E. D. R. U. G. S. T. O. R. E. 

For Prompt and Efficient Service Every Student Is Cordially Invited 

CITY CAFE & DINING ROOM 

“WHERE FRIENDS MEET TO EAT” 

Davidson’s Oldest and Best 

Spenser Bros. 

Mooresville, N.C. 

Johnston Barber Shop 

Just A Step Off Trade Street 

3-Room Apartment 

ALL MODERN CONVENIENCES 

W. W. MOTT 

Mount Mourne, N.C. 

SOUTHERN 5 & 10c STORE 

General Merchandise, Parachutes, Dress Shirts, Endicott, Army 

OVER THE GOAL 

The first football hit of the season proves to have the thrills of a dozen Rose Bowl games rolled into one, with Johnnie playing his trumpet hotter than ever before. Get your last minute football predictions and scores from EDDIE DOOLEY 

THURS. - FRI. - SAT. 

ALL SEATS 

THURSDAYS AND SATURDAYS 

M. H. GOODRUM 

Zenith & R.C.A. Radios 

BROADWAY 

Geo. Mathis Lem Kornegay 

Chesterfields stand ace high. It’s a cinch they’ve got what smokers like. You'll find them milder... you’ll enjoy that Chesterfield taste. 

MILDNESS and TASTE 

Copyright 1937, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.