WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 13, 1937 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Three

WINTER SPORTS PICK UP AFTER HOLIDAYS

SPORTS AFIELD

CAGERS WIN THRILLING GAME FROM CAROLINA

Davidson Cagers Defeat White Phantoms

A new year and a new spirit have pervaded the traditional atmosphere of our college. Optimism and enthusiasm have replaced the customary aloofness of Wildcat cage followers. Early in the season, we predicted great things for Coach Laird’s charges, and they have not only lived up to them but have surpassed them. The huge crowd present will attest to the brilliance of the Cats, and those who chose to arrive after the freshman game started either stood up the whole game or were unable to procure tickets.

Quick Stars

Captain Bill Quick was there in person and shone in dependability in long shots, his steady, dependable way, flaming sophomores, J. Hicks and Ned Iverson, attack. Foul shots and a swell job of guarding nullified the smooth passing game of the highly-touted Tar Heels. The pace is furious in the whole conference, and the scramble will end in the pay-off to only eight teams—a berth in the tournament at Raleigh.

While talking to Gene Cawike, who, by the way, although young in years, is president of two baseball leagues this year, I was shown a contract signed by our own Chet Chapman. Coach Chapman will serve as umpire this summer in either the North State or Carolina League. Coach McEver is also being talked about for one of these jobs.

Another foe enters the football picture for Davidson in 1938, 1939, and 1940 in the form of those snarling Clemson Tigers. The games are slated for the Charlotte Memorial Stadium.

Huge Stadium

How about that stadium proposed for our nation’s capital? It’s good reasoning to build a stadium instead of just another memorial, but a structure to seat 300,000 people is a horse of another color. The coaching situation at State is still as muddled as the European situation. Anderson was not offered a new contract, but his supporter, Dave Clark, Charlotte publisher, is still at grips with Dr. Frank Graham, head of the Greater University, and proposes to carry the case to court.

Dreams

In the way of surprises, it wouldn’t be nice for the coaches if Irving Morris Freeman decided to come back to school here. Just a thought!

DUKE UNIVERSITY SCHOOL OF MEDICINE DURHAM, N. C.

Four terms of eleven weeks are given each year. These may be taken consecutively (graduation in three and one-quarter years) or three terms may be taken each year (graduation in four years). The entrance requirements are intelligence, character, and at least two years of college work, including the subjects specified for Grade A medical schools. Catalogues and application forms may be obtained from the Dean.

Hogan Flashy Forward

Here is Maurice Peabody, Stellar Cat forward who led the attack against the Tar Heels Saturday. Last season he was shifted from guard and has done so well at forward that now he is one of the main cogs in the best cage team that Davidson has boasted in some time.

CAGE TEAM LOSES TO OAK RIDGE, 26-37

Score Is 20-20 Tie at Half; Iverson Stars

Although Davidson “B” basketball team held Oak Ridge to a 20-20 score at the end of the first half of their game here last Friday night, the visitors rallied in the last half to take a 37-26 win over the Wildcats. Dan Iverson was the high scorer for Davidson with ten points, while Tyson led the scoring for Oak Ridge’s Cadets, making eight points. Those scoring for Davidson were: Iverson, Johnson, Sloan, Woodward, and Tice; while those who scored for the Cadets were: Connell, Howard, Johnson, Link, Price, Sims, and Tyson.

Coach Sheppard said Monday morning that so far seven games have been scheduled for Davidson's B team. These games are as follows: Belmont at Davidson, Jan. 15; Catawba at Catawba, Jan. 18; Oak Ridge at Oak Ridge, Feb. 19; Davidson Freshmen on Feb. 17; and Belmont at Belmont, Feb. 24. Games are pending on Feb. 5 and Feb. 13, but these have not been definitely arranged yet.

Mrs. E. W. Blythe and her granddaughter, Jean Glenn, are to spend the winter in Davidson with Mrs. J. R. Withers, sister of Mrs. Blythe. The two arrived last week.

The Big M.D.R. Lays an Egg

Dining Room of ours has been coming to life with vim and vigor—and carry six. It’s due to the orchestra: an eleven-piece outfit, Jimmy Livingston waving the stick, and it plays twice a day. It’s there for Luncheon—7 to 11, and again for Dinner—7 to 9, except Saturday evenings. You fellows who go for The Tavern as tops—which, at a guess, describes a good working majority of Davidsonians—ought to give the M.D.R. a look-in, and see what’s going on. Dancing, you know, if you wish—and no cover or other ‘extra’ charge, ever. Hold the thought—for your next dinner-date.

HOTEL CHARLOTTE

AT CHAPEL HILL

MATCH 10 POINT MATMEN

Captain Parker Continues Record By Pinning His Opponent Quickly

POINTERS COP, 18½ - 9½

Ellis Is Forced To Stop By Elbow Injury

A strong aggregation of High Point Y. M. C. A. grapplers defeated the Davidson wrestling team by a score of 18½ to 9½ on Saturday night in High Point. The Wildcats felt strongly the loss of Ed Ellis, 175 pounder, who sprained his elbow early in his match and was forced to forfeit, thus giving High Point five points. The best match of the meet was between Fort of Davidson and Noland, ending in a draw.

SUMMARY: 118 pounds—Blue (HP) defeated Parks (D) by a time advantage of 60:58; 126 pounds—Gregory (HP) had a time advantage of 3:52 over Lowrance; 135 pounds—Captain Parker (D) pinned Odom in 40 seconds; 145 pounds—Fort and Noland fought to a draw; 155 pounds—Summey (HP) defeated Sadler by a time advantage of 0:45; 165 pounds—Evans (HP) downed Gamble with a time advantage of 7:50; 175 pounds—McLaurin (HP) won over Ellis by forfeit; unlimited—McFadyen (D) beat Robins by a time advantage of 6:50.

The Cat grapplers will meet Duke here on Saturday, January 15. It is expected that Ellis’ arm will be well enough to participate in the meet with the Blue Devils.

BLUE DEVIL CAGERS HANG OUT SEVENTH WIN IN CONFERENCE

Washington and Lee Establishes Itself as Possible Contender

Duke's Blue Devils racked up their fifth, sixth, and seventh victories over Southern Conference opponents last week and took over a commanding lead in the race for basketball supremacy in this section of the South. In addition, they walloped the U.S. Naval Academy on Saturday.

Washington and Lee trounced for its first conference win, 51-26, and thereby established itself as a possible favorite in the coming conference tournament in Raleigh. Wake Forest likewise lost to Duke, but came back to win a one-point victory over North Carolina.Wake team features Waller, one of the flashiest little forwards ever to make an appearance at that institution. Mainly because of the brilliant work of this little left-hander and their captain, Dwight Morriss, the Deacons are rated as LEADS "CATS winning a sparkling 35-33 over the White Phantoms Saturday. One of the largest crowds ever to attend a game in Charlotte filled all the available sitting and standing room in Central High Gymnasium.

Fast and Thrilling Game Passes Into Extra Period Wildcats Hold Lead Gained Early in Game Until Final Minute of Play as N. C. Deadlocks Clash With Rally

BLUE DEVIL QUINTET WINS OVER DAVIDSON Rally Led By Captain Quick Comes Too Late to Cinch Game. Knorr and Hancock Score

The Davidson basketball quintet definitely proved it is one of the most outstanding teams in the Southern Conference by victory over North Carolina Saturday night in Charlotte. Davidson was savagely protecting her lead as the period ended.

Iverson Scores

North Carolina’s White Phantoms have not fared so well as last year, dropping close decisions to both Davidson and Wake Forest; however, they hope to redeem themselves at the expense of the powerful New York University team this week. North Carolina State looked to be much improved over early season form when they took the South Carolina Gamecocks into camp.

SERVICE IS OUR MOTTO White Drug Store To Serve You— KAY THOMPSON HAL KEMP’S ORCHESTRA FEATURING KAY THOMPSON THE RHYTHM SINGERS 415 South Tryon Street PAUL & CRYMES, INC. SPORTING GOODS CHARLOTTE, N. C. EVERY FRIDAY 8:30 P.M., ALL COLUMBIA STATIONS

Davidson opened the game with a bang. After the Phantoms sunk a foul toss, the red and black shirted players turned on a dazzling display of phenomenal passing, shooting, and general teamwork which accounted for eleven points. Cat players swarmed all over the Phantoms when they had the ball, forcing them to make numerous errors. Carolina rallied in the second quarter, however, and combined long shots and a fast-breaking attack down the center of the floor to cut the Wildcats’ lead to 19-15 at halftime.

Minus the services of Iverson and Hicks, Davidson dropped a thrilling 40-34 decision to Duke's Conference leading netmen in Winston-Salem Wednesday night. The Blue Devils used their superior height to advantage to hold a 22-9 lead at the half. After the rest period, the Dukes boosted their advantage to 28-10; but then the Davidson team, which had been unable to find itself all night, suddenly came to life.

Led by Captain Clifford Quick, the Wildcats dominated the play for the remainder of the game, scoring 24 points to 12 for Duke. The gap was too much to close in the short time remaining, however, and the desperate rally which brought repeated cheers from the crowd ended with the Wildcats three goals behind.

Quick played by far the greatest game of his career, accounting for six field goals, most of them shot from the center of the floor, and a foul toss to be high point man.

Before a crowd of wildly cheering partisans, the Rats of Georgia dormitory triumphed by a 7-0 score over Watts Tea Hounds in the annual football classic. The game was played shortly before the Christmas holidays.

The two teams went into the last period scoreless. Watts then, deep in her own territory, tried a pass. Walter Dickson intercepted and scampered twenty yards for a touchdown. Dickson passed to Vogler for the extra point. A muddy field hampered Georgia’s boasted running attack.

For Call E. H. MORROW RADIO REPAIRS Phone 2214

M. H. GOODRUM & Co. Zenith and RCA Radios