— —— — Hoover Discusses Fascism at Banquet

VOL. XXV

The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA - LIBERTAS

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., WEDNESDAY, DEC. 8, 1937.

Sam Lowe Convicted of Serious Offenses Before ROTC Court

Court Martial Dismisses Lowe From Services For Attack On Officer

Lieut. Sam Lowe was found guilty on two charges in a mock court-martial on Monday night, and as punishment he
will be dismissed from service and will be confined with two years hard labor. He was guilty of the charges
of willfully disobeying the order of a superior officer, Lieut. H. H. McFadyen, that he conduct himself in a more
military manner; also he was guilty of striking McFadyen on the shin with his foot.

Other Charges Cleared

There were two other charges brought against Lowe, but counsel for the defense succeeded in proving him not guilty in
these. They were, mainly, that Lowe threatened McFadyen with bodily hurt, and that he attempted to draw his sabre on
him. The prosecution was composed of Henry Harkey, Bruce Parcell, and Hector McGeachy. The defense that ably defended the accused
consisted of Jim Wilson, Bill Manson, Leonard Fort, and Torrey McLean. The witnesses that appeared before the court were H.
H. McFadyen, R. M. King, A. L. Skinner, Elmore Holt, W. W. Lowrance, Col. John Rhett, and Maj. C. M.
Steele. The court that convicted Lowe was as follows: Euclid Fant, Git Palmer, Rufus Wallace, Springs Pharr, Julian Helms, and
Bob Miciling. The reporter was Tom Daniels; the president of the court was Teeny Lafferty; and the law member was
Springs Pharr. The offense was supposedly committed on Nov. 29, and the prosecution proved that McFadyen had corrected Lowe three
times before the offense. However, a statement from Mrs. Johnson, the school nurse, stated that a cold prevented him from
hearing well.

Dorms Eager On Battle Eve

Spirit Runs High as Old Rivals Prepare For Tilt

Spirit is running high in the halls of Watts and Georgia Dormitories. Wonder why? Perhaps the annual football classic that
is to take place on Richardson Field Thursday between the two dormitories is the cause. The Watts Tea Hounds, after
losing a close battle to the Georgia Rats last year, are determined to come out on top of this yearly
affair. On the other hand, the Rats claim to have the best team in recent years, including an “A-No. 1”
cheering section, led by the ever-noisy Pete Marchant, who assumed the duties left by the one and only “Reddy” Sugg.
No pre-game antics will take place this year as has been the custom in the past. Both sides have decided
that this procedure would keep their players from getting the desired rest that they need before the game. In past
years, it was nothing unusual to see members of the two dormitories gather on the night before the classic to
stage a “water fight,” or a “window bursting” campaign. The administration, however, has agreed to furnish uniforms for the “boys”
this year if the pranks are cut out.

Rats Plan Attack

Three great coaches have been secured by the Rats to put their boys through their paces. “Maestro” King, “Twinkletoes” Lafferty,
and “Slug” Matthis have signed coaching contracts, and with such material as Faison, Reid, Wilson, Rader, Harrison, Pittman, Kiesewetter, Durham,
the Ganiers, Bartow, and Brown, they promise to pound out a winning combination. The Tea Hounds were not to be
outdone and have selected such stalwarts as “Iron Man” Dennis, Fred Stair, and Bob Abell to round out their abundance
of material.

Christmas Holidays Begin Next Week

The first stroke of the bell at the lunch hour on Friday, Dec. 17, will mark the beginning of the
Christmas vacation at Davidson College. Until it rings again at 8:25 on the morning of Jan. 4, 1938, some 650
Davidson students may exist blissfully unaware of its tolling and their toiling. This holiday period is four days longer than
that of last year, which started on Tuesday, Dec. 22, and ended January 5. These ninety-six extra hours of Christmas
vacation will make it possible for students who live a long distance from Davidson to have a reasonably long visit
to their homes.

Dances Are Big Success

Jimmy Fuller’s Band Plays For Gala Fall Frolics Last Week-End

On Friday night a small but congenial crowd was present to open Davidson's newest set of dances. Jimmy Fuller and
his orchestra, from the University of North Carolina, played at the formal Friday night, at the tea dance Saturday afternoon,
and at the informal Saturday night. The Fall Frolics, as this new set was called, had its biggest crowd on
Friday night. The group present at the dances echoed P. H. (Booby) Arrowsmith who said “This was the nicest set
of dances that I have ever attended while at Davidson.” This set was held in the Hotel Charlotte ballroom, which
was decorated with an all-white motif, distinctly different from any previous one used at Davidson dances. Jimmy Fuller's orchestra has
been featured throughout the Carolinas and Virginia. Among Fuller's most popular engagements were those at the Tantilla ballroom in Richmond,
Va, and the Pavilion at Virginia Beach. The present headquarters of the band is the University of North Carolina, where
the boys in the band are students. These dances were also unique in being the first set under student control
of drinking. There was no evidence of any strong drink, either before or after the dance, according to members of
the supervisory committee. The Pan-Hellenic Council was deeply gratified at this and promises to renew efforts to get an exceptionally
good band here for Mid-winters. However, as previously announced, no band has been signed up yet.

Boys expecting to make “W’s” for the Tea Hounds are: Kellam, Long, Steere, Parker, Jones, Kornegay, Forsyth.

Mark Bills, internationally-known baritone soloist, sang here Friday night in Chambers Auditorium in the first of the series of concerts
to be sponsored by Davidson College this year. Mr. Bills, with Mrs. Louise Nelson Pfohl as accompanist, devoted the program
to a number of old English and German airs together with a few semi-classics. Stating that he hoped that he
might thus add to the enjoyment of the audience, he informally prefaced several of his offerings with brief program notes.
The audience, of larger than average proportions for such a presentation here, received the artist well and demanded encores repeatedly.
Mr. Bills arrived on the campus Wednesday afternoon and left to fill an engagement in Cincinnati the day following his
recital. While here he was the guest of Dr. A. V. Goldiere of the French department. The singer is a
graduate of DePauw University and of the University of Michigan School of Music. He has done graduate work in the
University of Michigan and the University of Illinois School of Education. An outstanding athlete in his undergraduate years, he was
for a time coach and athletic director in Fort Wayne, Ind. high schools. His musical career began when, at the
age of 17, he joined the Chautauqua Concert Company.

Program Showed Versatility

The program presented was as follows: “When Dull Care,” Old English, arranged by Wilson; “O Mistress Mine,” Arthur Sullivan; “Old
Mother Hubbard,” in the style of Handel, Hutchinson; “Auf Dem Kirchof,” Brahms; Traum, Durch Die Dammerung, R. Straus; Miene Liebe
Ist Grun, Brahms; Recit and Aria—"Vision Fugitive” from Herodiade, Massenet; “Leezie Lindsay,” traditional Scottish Air, Malcolm; “Retreat,” La Forge; “Mr.
Belloc’s Fancy,” Warlock; “The Mad Dog,” Lehman; “The Bellman,” Forsyth; and “When I Think Upon the Maidens,” Head. Encores, sung
at the conclusion of each of the five groups in which the offerings were made except the first, included: “None
But the Lonely Heart,” Tchaikovsky; “My Nag Ned,” Old English Traditional; “For a Messenger,” La Forge; and “Land of Degradation,”
Ginsky.

Seals On Sale

The annual sale of Christmas seals begins in the community this week. The Civic League of Davidson, local sponsor of
the drive, has appointed a committee, of which Mrs. A. V. Goldiere is chairman, to push the sale of the
seals. Mrs. Goldiere and fifteen helpers will offer them to the townspeople as well as to the students of the
college. She stated that she hoped that many college students would help this worthy cause, since seventy-five per cent of
the proceeds will go to the local community.

Court Finds Officer Guilty

NO. 17

Honored

Dartmouth Debates In Initiation Dinner of Phi Beta Kappa Men

Dr. Hoover Talks At

Prof. O. J. Thies was recently elected Worthy Grand Alchemist of Gamma Sigma Epsilon, national chemistry fraternity, at its annual
meeting.

Thies Leads Fraternity

Professor Elected Head of National Chemistry Group At Meeting

Professor O. J. Thies of the Department of Chemistry, was elected Worthy Grand Alchemist, or national president of Gamma Sigma
Epsilon, national chemical fraternity, at the national convention in Raleigh last Tuesday, Nov. 30. The delegates representing Davidson College at
the convention were Professor Thies and Marion Bryant, local president of the fraternity. The two representatives left here on Sunday
afternoon and returned Tuesday evening.

Biennial Convention

The officers of the fraternity are elected biannually and for the past two years Professor Thies has held the office
of Grand Recorder of the Cult. He was one of the founders of the fraternity, which was organized at Davidson
College in 1919 and since then has been active in the work of the fraternity. The convention opened on Sunday
afternoon in Raleigh and that night attended a smoker at State College. Monday was taken up with lengthy discussions. On
Tuesday the delegates visited Wake Forest College, Duke University, and University of North Carolina. They returned to Raleigh late in
the afternoon for the final meeting of the convention.

“Y” to Conduct First Meet

Kenyon and Ramsey Open Season With Dartmouth In Phi Hall

Two members of the Dartmouth College varsity debating team met two members of Davidson's debating team in the Philanthropic Hall
last Monday night in a non-decision debate. The query discussed was “Resolved: That the National Labor Relations Board Should Be
Empowered to Enforce Arbitration of All Industrial Disputes.” The four men participating in the debate were all sophomores. Bob Ramsey
and Dick Kenyon represented Davidson and Sidney Craig and John Willetts represented Dartmouth.

Making Tour of South

Craig and Willetts came to Davidson after having visited and debated at Furman, at Erskine, and at Winthrop. While at
Winthrop they debated in the Dixie Practice Tournament in which about forty schools participated and Willetts was chosen as the
best individual debater from more than one hundred other debaters. The team went directly to Chapel Hill after the debate
here and will debate the William and Mary team and the Villanova team after their debate at the University. Ramsey
and Kenyon were among the nine men chosen as varsity debaters in the debate try-outs last Tuesday night. The judges
of the try-outs were Prof. J. C. Bailey, Prof. R. A. Keaty, Dr. C. K. Brown.Dr. W. Z. Cumming, and
Prof. E. J. Erwin, and after the eighteen men trying out presented their minute speeches, these judges selected the following
men: Haywood Hill, Dick Kenyon, Bill Kiesewetter, John Reisner, Sherrard Rice, and Neal Scott as varsity debaters and Joe Calvin,
Bob Ramsey, and Locke White, as alternates. The national office of Grand Peep had its beginning at Davidson College. The
delegates to the convention were the six men chosen for the varsity, who will be divided into three teams of
two men each, and each will make one of the three trips planned. There will be a southern trip, a
western trip, and a northern trip this season. The team this year has had a lot of previous experience and
should turn in a very creditable performance this season.

Revision Made

Honorary fraternities on this campus must show real signs of life henceforth, announced Munroe Wicker, head of the Davidson Honorary
Fraternity Council, last Monday after the regular monthly meeting of that body. The council decided that each fraternity represented must
give a report of its operations every month or have its inactivity reported to its national headquarters, according to Wicker.
Other discussion at the meeting centered around a proposal to ask the faculty to restrict the number of honorary societies
an undergraduate might join according to his credits and individual abilities. Proponents of the plan argued that students often belong
to more such societies than they have time for, to the detriment of both their college work and the fraternities
themselves.

Xmas Vespers Program To Consist Largely Of Music

The Christmas vespers of Davidson College will be held Sunday night at seven-thirty. These services, which are sponsored by the
Y. M. C. A., are held every year on the Sunday before the Christmas holidays. The program will consist largely
of music. The college will have as guest musicians Miss Ann Nisbett, harpist, and Mr. Franklin Riker, tenor. The college
orchestra and glee club will also assist with the music in the program. The program will consist of three parts:
The Prophecy, The Birth, and Adoration. Various Scripture readings pertaining to these three phases will be given and the audience
will sing a number of old Christmas Carols. The auditorium will be decorated in red and green with pine and
cedar trees and it will be lighted by numerous candles. These decorations contribute a great deal to the beauty of
this service. This is one of Davidson's most impressive services and a large attendance is expected, not only from the
students, but from the surrounding territory.

Editorial of the Week

The eyes of all Southern college authorities, coaches, and students will be focused with avid interest and curiosity upon the
actions of the Southern Conference officials this weekend when that group meets in Richmond. The Southern Conference is "on the
spot." No longer can that organization wink at the obvious violations of their rulings. No longer can they hypocritically establish
rules and neglect to enforce them. Righteous indignation has been manifested by more than one college in the South. And
Rule 13 of Article VII should and in all probability will be the main object of criticism. Section I reads
as follows: "It has been and is an accepted part of the provisions of all intercollegiate athletic conferences that an
athlete may be awarded a scholarship, loan, job, or other financial aid on his merits as a person and student
on the same basis as other students, but it is the purpose of this conference in seeking to carry out
the ideals of the National Collegiate Athletic Association to make explicit and effective its prohibition of scholarships, loans, jobs, and
any other material consideration for athletes primarily as athletes."

Students at Millsap College had a peace strike in observance of Armistice Day and were excused from classes for twenty-five
minutes. Faculty members joined the movement.

Dr. McSween Talks At Sunday Vespers Here

At the Vesper Service last Sunday night, Dr. John McSween, former President of Presbyterian College, and now pastor of the
Presbyterian Church of Chester, S. C., was the speaker. He took as his text the 12th chapter of I Kings
and his topic was "Influence." His sermon was woven about the life of Jeroboam and his influence on Israel. Dr.
McSween began by giving a historic character sketch of Jeroboam and showed what a corrupting influence he was to Israel.
He emphasized the power of influence and showed that the evils of a bad influence cannot be stopped but go
on out into eternity. Dr. McSween brought out the fact that every movement is influenced by personalities. Thomas Jefferson influenced
democracy, the Apostle Paul influenced missions, and Woodrow Wilson influenced the movement for World Peace. As an example of influence,
Dr. McSween pointed to the band of ragged soldiers led by Stonewall Jackson during the Civil War. He stated that
these men were fighting, not for states' rights but for Stonewall Jackson.

Scabbard-Blade Has Formal Initiation

Six new men were initiated into Scabbard and Blade, military fraternity, yesterday morning at the formal initiation held at sunrise.
These six men were: E. T. Ganier, G. B. Ganier, R. H. Tilling, F. W. Dennis, T. R. McLean, and
W. T. Manson. At six o'clock the new men waked themselves, dressed, and then waked the old members of the
fraternity. The new men were then taken to the stadium football field and blindfolded. Each initiate was taken before several
old members and given the various oaths of the order. Lieut.-Col. Lafferty pinned the insignias upon the men and they
were congratulated by all the old members.

Eight Seniors Inducted Into Honor Scholastic Society At Banquet

The eight Davidson seniors who were recently extended bids by Phi Beta Kappa, national scholastic fraternity, were formally initiated last
Monday evening. The men initiated were: Cooper Adams, Petersburg, Tenn.; Dallas Herring, Rose Hill; Heywood Hill, Richmond, Va.; Pete McKnight,
Shelby; James Steinhardt, Lincolnton; Watson Street, Talladega, Ala.; Richard Vowles, Davidson; and Monroe Wicker, Charlotte. The formal initiation was held
in the faculty room in Chambers building at 6 o'clock and the initiates were presented with plaques and keys. Immediately
after the initiation, the members adjourned to the banquet room for the initiatory banquet.

Dr. Currie Presides

Prof. E. T. Lilly, president of Phi Beta Kappa chapter at Davidson, introduced the toastmaster, Dr. Archibald Currie, and Dr.
Currie called on President W. L. Lingle, who spoke briefly to the guests and members present indicating his pleasure at
being associated with such a group and his admiration of the high ideals of Phi Beta Kappa. Prof. E. J.
Erwin then gave a short talk welcoming the initiates on behalf of the faculty. Pete McKnight was called on by
Dr. Currie to speak on behalf of the initiates and he expressed his feelings and those of his fellows at
being initiated into the honor society. Dr. Currie then introduced the main speaker of the evening, Dr. Calvin B. Hoover,
of Duke University. Dr. Hoover spoke on Fascism as it exists in Italy and Germany today and reviewed its similarities
and differences from that particular type of totalitarian state as exists in Soviet Russia. He also spoke on the ultimate
effect these new movements now going on in Europe would have on the democratic nations of the world. Dr. Hoover
also gave a public lecture on "Twenty Years of Soviet Power" in chapel Monday. Dr. Hoover is well qualified to
speak on the present problems and tendencies of the European Totalitarian states. He spent 1929-30 studying the Soviet scheme in
Russia, and he is regarded as an American authority on the present dictator states of Europe.

China Gets YMCA Fund

The annual Y. M. C. A. Christmas gift drive will begin this week under the direction of Charles Dixler. The
gift this year, called "The China Emergency Fund," is to be sent to aid those people stricken in the war
area of China. The goal set this year for this fund is eight hundred dollars, which will go to China
for a number of uses, the most urgent of which are: care of the wounded soldiers; supplies, transportation, and food
for missionaries who are trying to serve God and further His kingdom; care of sick people and setting up of
better quarters for them to live in, and a host of other important needs for the war-stricken area.

Has Been Annual Custom

For a number of years, it has been the custom here at Davidson to get up this Christmas fund to
send to communities where the people are in desperate need. Last year the fund was sent to Africa to establish
an electric plant in Mutoto. In 1935 it was sent to China for the purchase of movable medical equipment, and
the year before that the gift went to the mountains of North Carolina to help the underprivileged. Several letters have
been received lately from the missionaries in China, in which they told of the terrible living conditions, the immense amount
of suffering, and the danger of staying in the war zone, but their work must go on to save souls
for God. Sometime this week, a committee of students will go around to dormitories and ask for aid in this
matter. It is the sincere hope that everyone will contribute as liberally as possible and also that the project will
go over the top in a short while.

Coaches Plan Trip to Meet

Shepard, McEver Attend Conference Session

Athletic Director Norman Shepard announced last night that he and Head Football Coach Gene McEver would probably attend the sixteenth
annual session of the Southern Conference in Richmond, Friday and Saturday of this week. The eyes of many sports fans
will be focused on Richmond this weekend as the college officials of the 15-member loop debate the feasibility of revising
the conference regulations relating to financial assistance to athletes. This and several important eligibility rules have been studied by league
members for the past week and are expected to provoke considerable fireworks as the session gets underway. These matters have
furnished a major problem for the officials in the past three meetings and they hope to find some solution for
the question this year.

To Consider Problems

Coach Shepard gave no indication as to what stand Davidson representatives would take on the serious questions which the conference
will consider. Only last week Dr. Walter Lingle of Davidson College issued an emphatic statement that Davidson would not go
in for "big time" football in the near future. Other matters of major import will also be considered.
