Dr. Watts Honored by French Government

VOL. XXV

By ALENDA Lux

The Davidsonian

LIBERTAS

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., WEDNESDAY, NOV. 10, 1937

Betas Win Cup For House Decorations

Beta Theta Pi Is Declared Winner of House Contest

Dances Are Big Success

Fraternities Utilize Novel Ideas in Decorating For Homecoming

SPE’s COME IN SECOND

Representation of Theater Captures Cup

With a novel representation of a theater adorned by signs announcing the Davidson-Carolina game as the day’s attraction, the Betas
captured the loving cup presented by the Alumni Association for the best-decorated fraternity house. The Betas barely nosed out the
SPE’s, who were awarded second place after careful consideration by the judges.

Alumni returning to the Beta house Saturday did not have a hard time imagining they were entering a real theater.
Wide red and black streamers enclosed the whole front porch, and a ticket booth in the center added realism to
the scene. Above, a marquee made of white letters on a black background announced to the crowd, “Double feature—'Game’ Warden
in ‘Call of the Wildcat —Crow’ Little in ‘Winged High, Winged Low’.” On each side of the doorway, a publicity
poster attracted the crowd; one announced “Cartoon and Comedy—Waldo Wildcat and Ronnie Ram,” while the other, emblazoned with a picture
of a grandstand tackle, fairly shouted “News Reel—Davidson beats Carolina.”

The second place SPE’s, who won the cup last year, also came in for a share of the decorating glory.
Many old grads stopped to laugh at the grinning Wildcat mercilessly putting the Carolina ram's nose to the grindstone, as
well as at the other attractions on the other side of the yard. There, by a ticker fairly overflowing with
tape, a broad red line showed on an enlarged stock market chart the drop in Carolina’s victory stock after its
steady rise from the first of the season. Nearby, miniature football players ran plays on a gridiron and stadium made
exactly to scale. A large football on which was written “Homecoming” crested an arch over the walk; the sides of
the arch bore the words “Welcome Alumni” in large letters.

A number of passers-by were amused to find that the sign on the Pika house announcing “We've Got Carolina’s Goat”
was no joke—a rather tame-looking billy stood tied to a stake in the front yard nonchalantly munching the grass. Kappa
Sigs had a rather hard time...

(Continued on Page Six)

Magazine Is Put in Mail

Scripts ’n Pranks Makes Appearance Saturday

The Homecoming issue of Scripts ’n Pranks, Davidson College's humor magazine, made its unexpected appearance on the Campus Saturday, November
6, Homecoming Day, when local students found the magazine cluttering up their post office boxes. Editor Ryburn, just returned from
a press convention, said on seeing the publication for the first time, “It sure is a good-looking magazine!”

Columnist Chubby King, of “King For a Day” fame, furnished the magazine with its lead story entitled “Cave Canem.” Karl
Hudson and Bob Ramsey also contributed short stories to this initial issue. Cartoons for Scripts ’n Pranks were drawn by
Fred Harbin and Bob Miller, of the sophomore class, and Edwin Shewmake, of the freshman class. Editor Ryburn also condescended
to scratch off a bit of artwork for his admiring public. The Homecoming issue also included music notes and poetry.

Students of Queens Extend Blanket Bid

Queens College has again issued an invitation to Davidson students to attend a party at Queens on the evening of
Thursday, November 18. Queens was hostess to several of these affairs last year, and they were quite popular with the
students. The invitation was sent to the president of the student body, Teeny Lafferty, who read it in chapel last
Monday. He announced that everyone desiring to attend would have to put his name on the list on the bulletin
board of Georgia Dormitory, in order that dates may be secured. Both Queens and Davidson are already making extensive preparations
for the affair.

Teeny Adds To Laurels

Lafferty Appointed Vice-President of R. O. A. Chapter in Charlotte

Martin L. “Teeny” Lafferty, cadet major of the Reserve Officers Training Corps at Davidson College, added to his already-great list
of honors last week when he was appointed a vice-president of the Charlotte chapter of the Reserve Officers Association. The
announcement was made by Lieut. G. M. Jarvis, secretary of the Charlotte chapter. “It is our desire to promote a
closer relationship between our association and the R. O. T. C. unit at Davidson,” said Lieutenant Jarvis, “since practically the
only source for securing reserve officers now is from the R. O. T. C. Mr. Lafferty’s record indicates that his
work is outstanding, not only from a scholastic standpoint, but other activities which are a complement of college life. We
feel that Mr. Lafferty typifies the leader that will be needed should the evil day befall when reserve officers are
called to active service.”

Lafferty, an outstanding student, athlete, and leader in campus life, is regarded highly as cadet major of the R. O.
T. C. at Davidson. His record stands out for its general...

(Continued on Page 5)

Seniors Vote About Blazer

In a meeting after chapel last Monday, the senior class discussed the selection of this year’s official class blazers. Votes
were cast to determine what material would be most suitable to the majority. ‘Felt-Roy,’ a new cloth similar to corduroy,
proved most popular, winning by a slight margin over the more conventional plaid. A number of varied models of sports
coats have been in the student store recently to enable the seniors to make their choice. New samples in the
‘Felt-Roy’ material will be exhibited in the store as soon as they arrive, probably today or tomorrow, according to W.
W. Rader, who heads the committee charged with purchasing the blazers. Those who intend to buy jackets will indicate their
preference by voting as previously. A final vote to settle the questions of style and color will probably be called
for during the first of next week. Some forty members of the class have signified their intention of buying the
coats, states Rader. The cost of the blazer is not to exceed ten dollars, he adds.

Earl Mellen Furnishes Rhythm; Pan-Hellenic Council Presents Figure

The Davidson 1937 Homecoming festivities were officially opened on Friday night with the first dance of the year sponsored by
the Pan-Hellenic Council. As has been the custom for a number of years, the dances were held at the Charlotte
Armory. Earl Mellen and his popular “Melodies by Mellen” orchestra furnished the music.

The Friday night dance was formal, as usual. There was a good crowd present although not so many as on
Saturday night when the dance was informal. A feature of the evening was the figure given by the Pan-Hellenic Council.
P. H. (Booby) Arrowsmith, president of the council, presided and presented each member's date with a combination comb and mirror
set with an individual fraternity crest on each. After the presentation, the couples formed a figure around Arrowsmith and his
date, Miss “Way-Way” Lumpkin.

On Saturday night there was a slightly bigger crowd but it was not up to the number that have attended
previous dances. There were three no-breaks at the informal. During these, the lights were all cut off except for three
which shone on a revolving reflector which was placed in the center of the ball. The Armory was decorated with
Davidson black and red streamers and Carolina blue and white ones. This motif was very appropriate as a number of
Carolina students stayed over for the dance. After the dance, there were a number of breakfasts given by various fraternities.
Also, there were several banquets given before it started.

Bandmasters Play at Game

Unique Band Formed By Various Leaders

Band music of the first rank was prevalent at the annual Davidson-Carolina Homecoming game, as a 40-piece Bandmaster’s band supplemented
the 50-piece Davidson College Band. These Bandmasters came to Davidson to participate in the feature from all parts of the
Carolinas and all were gaily dressed in the uniforms of their individual bands. Outstanding among the uniforms was that of
the Legionnaire who was wearing a bright red uniform with a shiny helmet.

The Band played several pieces at various times during the game, of which two were American folk songs familiar to
all the listeners. The oldest bandmaster present, Mr. J. I. White, director of the Spruce Pine band, served as director.
Other musicians who played in the band are as follows: Lonnie R. Sides, Charlotte; J. A. Allen, Chester, S. C.;
John Alvater, Greensboro; W. P. Babcock, Davidson; Mr. Bivens, Albemarle; Cecil Brodt, Charlotte; Moreland Cunningham, Morganton; William P. Grier, Jr.,
Spencer; J. C. Hagaman, Shelby; Albert Harmon, Kannapolis; J. C. Harper, Lenoir; Earl Mellen...

Dr. Watts Pictured above is Dr. George B. Watts, Davidson professor of French, who recently received the distinguished diploma of
“Officer d’Academic” for outstanding service rendered to the French language.

Frank L. Jackson, National President Will Officiate at Inauguration of New Chapter

Frank L. Jackson, treasurer of the college and national president of Omicron Delta Kappa fraternity, will leave Thursday night for
Chestertown, Md., to install the Alpha Psi circle of ODK at Washington College. Officiating with Mr. Jackson will be William
Moseley Brown, national ODK secretary. Mr. Jackson will also address the gathering on the occasion of the installation, the first
under his administration as president.

Washington College, where the new circle is being installed, is a small but spirited institution with an enrollment of 300.
It was founded in 1782 and is tax-supported. Dr. Gilbert W. Mead, its president, came there in 1933, and through
his energetic work has succeeded in raising to a great extent the standing of the college. Before accepting the presidency
of Washington College, Dr. Mead was dean of Birmingham Southern.

The new charter is being granted to an active and efficient group of young men who have been working for
the same objectives sought by ODK. For several years the group has been petitioning the fraternity...

Dr. Watts Awarded French Diploma

Degree of Officer D’Academie Conferred By French Education Head

“In recognition of the valuable services rendered to French language and civilization,” the diploma of “Officer d’Academic” has been recently
conferred upon Dr. George B. Watts, Davidson professor of French. The distinction was awarded by...The French Ministry of National Education
and was transmitted by the Consul for France, M. de Verneuil, in Philadelphia. An Officier d'Academie holds the academic decoration
of the first degree. The decoration is conferred upon "foreigners and Frenchmen residing abroad who contribute to the intellectual, scientific,
or artistic development of France," by virtue of the decree of 1921. Insignia of the order consists of a silver
crown, oval, made of two branches, one a palm, the other a laurel, the whole attached to a purple ribbon.
Members are authorized to wear at all times, instead of the medal, a narrow purple ribbon in their buttonhole. They
are also authorized to add "Officier d'Academie" to their academic titles. Dr. Watts, who has taught here a number of
years, has traveled widely in France, and only last summer conducted a tour there.

Hear Prof. Currie
Grad Political Science Professor Paints Brilliant Future For Davidson

"The same courage as that possessed by the founders of Davidson College 100 years ago is needed today by those
who have the destiny of the institution in their hands," said Dr. Archibald Currie, Davidson professor of political science, before
a large group of Davidson alumni at the Charlotte Chamber of Commerce, last Friday night, November 5.

The idea that formation of the character of young manhood is as much an essential of a college's curriculum as
education of the mind was the substance of Dr. Currie's speech. That Davidson has been fortunate in its founders, in
the type of men who have managed its affairs, in the type of students who have been on its rolls,
and fortunate in its benefactors was brought out by the Davidson professor.

"We dream a dream about the Davidson of the future which may not be all a dream. Would it not
be a fine ideal for Davidson College to strive that every Davidson man of the coming century might be, in
the parlance of the pioneers of the west, 'a man with whom it is safe to ride the river'?"

Mr. Jackson, the first and only man to hold the position of treasurer of Davidson College, returned to his alma
mater to take over the duties of that office several years after his graduation. He was elected president of ODK
at the fraternity's national convention last year. Mr. Jackson will probably return to the campus Saturday afternoon.

Homecoming Gala Day Celebrated With Many Activities

Another annual Davidson Homecoming celebration has passed into the limbo of pleasant memories, with a day crammed full of action,
color, and all the things that go to make up a joyful time. Festivities started off for the returning alumni
with their annual luncheon, held in the dining hall of Chambers. Dr. Oren Moore, president of the Alumni Association, presided
over the meeting at which Dr. Julian Miller, editor of The Charlotte Observer, and Mr. David Ovens, general manager of
Ivey's store, spoke on "Davidson From the Outside." Dr. W. L. Lingle spoke on "Davidson From the Inside."

If the decorations on the fraternity houses had anything to do with the outcome of the game, the results would
have been quite different, but Fate willed otherwise, and the game and always-fighting Wildcats went down before the superior charging
attack of the Carolina Rams. In the decorations contest, the Beta Theta Pi's won with a novel idea of a
theater showing as a news, comedy, and feature attraction Davidson Wildcats win over the Rams. Sigma Phi Epsilon came second
with a Wall Street motif showing Carolina's stock plunging to the bottom.

Pre-game enthusiasm reached a new high pitch at a big pep meeting Friday night, featured by a shirt-tail parade and
a huge bonfire on freshman field afterward, forming a circle. Most of it was carried over to the game. Three
crack bands and twelve beautiful sponsors cheered both sides on to do their best, while three airplanes zooming overhead added
to the general note of activity.

After receptions at the fraternity houses for returning alumni, practically the whole campus adjourned to the Charlotte Armory to put
a finishing touch to a day full of gaiety, by dancing to the strains of "Melodies by Mellen."

Alumni Enjoy Spring Convention of NCCPA to Be Held in Charlotte

Davidson and Queens-Chicora To Act as Joint Hosts At Press Conclave

STATE PLAYS FALL HOST
Group Will Sponsor Campus News Broadcast

Davidson and Queens-Chicora College have been selected as joint hosts for the annual spring convention of the North Carolina Collegiate
Press Association, to be held in Charlotte this coming spring. Miss Georgia Underwood, of Queens-Chicora, and Dick Vowles, of Davidson,
were chosen to act as hostess and host for the convention delegates at the annual fall meeting of the association,
held at N. C. State College Nov. 4-6. The 1930 fall meeting was also held under the sponsorship of Davidson
College, with Hoke Robinson acting as host.

Seventy-five representatives from 17 colleges all over the state attended the fall convention, which was one of the most important
and successful meetings of the association ever held, according to the association's president, Charles Dunnagan, of North Carolina State College.
Headquarters were at the Sir Walter Hotel in Raleigh, where the delegates registered on Thursday, November 4. An informal reception
was held for them in the Virginia Dare ballroom Thursday night at 6 o'clock.

Business was the order of the day on Friday, starting at 9:30 A.M., in the Virginia Dare ballroom with a
general business discussion, with the various group discussions. The delegates were divided into three groups — Annual, Magazine, and Newspaper
Editors, and all Business Managers in one group, with each group being led by some man prominent in his field.
The most important business actually decided on was the plans for a Campus Radio Hour to be broadcast weekly in
the near future. The plan for this program, which will last fifteen minutes, is to devote the first five minutes
to the latest news from all North Carolina schools, the next five to oddities in the news from the schools,
and the remaining part of the program to editorializing. When these plans mature, the program will be heard over station
WPTE in Raleigh each Monday night from 7:00 to 7:15.

Also mentioned were plans for putting out a trade journal for the association.

School Buys Instruments
Meteorology Department Adds New Equipment

The Meteorology Department of Davidson College announces the purchase of a number of new articles of equipment for forecasting the
weather. A barograph, which is sensitive enough to forecast accurately cloudy weather and rain from four to six hours in
advance, will be placed in the lobby of Chambers building. This, together with the weather maps which are posted daily
on the bulletin board, will give to the observer fairly good weather forecasts for twenty-four hours in advance. An anemometer,
for measuring wind velocity, has been installed on top of the chemical laboratory, and a standard rain gauge on top
of Chambers building. Other equipment of the Meteorology Department consists of a maximum thermometer, and a hygrometer. The department expects
to purchase or to build within the near future a wind direction apparatus and a hygrothermograph for measuring humidity and
temperature. When all the above apparatus has been installed, Davidson will have standard equipment for a small meteorological station.
