Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN. WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 20, 1937

The Davidsonian
Founded By the Class of 1915

1936 Member 1937
Associated Collegiate Press
Distributors of Collegiate Digest

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON Ave. New York, N.Y.
CHICAGO - BOSTON - SAN FRANCISCO
LOS ANGELES - PORTLAND - SEATTLE

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879.

JIM MORTON .......... Editor
R. H. ROBINSON ....... Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
Managing Editor .......... McGeachy
Managing Editor .......... Dick Vowles
Managing Editor .......... Yates Faison
Managing Editor .......... Harry Kuykendall
Sports Editor ............. Howell Overton
Associate Editor .......... Harold Sugg
Associate Editor .......... Daymond
Associate Editor .......... John Winn
Associate Editor .......... Sam Ryburn
Copy Reader ............. Fitz Dade

BUSINESS STAFF
Circulation Manager ...... Wilson Lowrance
Circulation Manager ...... Ralph Chandler
Collection Manager ....... Human
Advertising Manager ...... Hoke
Asst. Business Manager ... Chandler

Human hopes and human creeds
Have their root in human needs...
E. F. Ware

SPORTS PARADE
Our basketball team may find the Wildcats’ score tagging closely behind this season. We expected a good season, and we
have a good season, but an occasional loss always occurs.

Wrestling odds reached a new high for the year when the Davidson grapplers crushed Duke visitors last Saturday.

FALLEN LEADER
Of more than passing interest to educational circles is the recent dismissal of DR. GLENN FRANK, president of the University
of Wisconsin. As DR. CONANT of Harvard has pointed out, the causes involved in this wrangle are too complex for
an outsider to decipher them. However, the issue seems to be one of political interference and the old question of
whether a state should leave education in the hands of professional educators, or allow interference of well-meaning, but biased outsiders.

We do not choose to take sides in the argument, but we would like to pay tribute to DR. FRANK
as a great liberal and a great man. For over a decade he has championed freedom of undergraduate thought and
student self-expression. He will be remembered by the collegiate press as the one administrative officer who believed in American youth
and fought with them. Right or wrong, DR. FRANK is a figure to command respect; he added no little to
the reputation and the prestige of the university he served. In many ways, his dismissal brings to mind the attacks
on North Carolina’s own DR. FRANK P. GRAHAM; let us hope our state does not make the same mistake!

QUACK! QUACK!
Apparently, the impossible has happened, a Pan-Hellenic Council announcement has been received with whole-hearted applause! What has been the dream
of Davidson student bodies for years past seems nearing reality. At last, we are securing an orchestra of national reputation
for our dances. But the success or failure of this set is now in the hands of the student body;
the Council has done all it possibly can towards furnishing the setting, but orchestras cost money. Naturally, we don’t intend
to attract undesirable outsiders; so your co-operation is needed. Tell alumni and friends in other schools, get in behind them
and make our Centennial Mid-Winters the best ever. The reception accorded this band will probably influence the choice of future
music makers.

HOW DUCKY
While considering the state of the campus, we pause to note that the sun has shone just two days since
our Christmas vacation. As the collegiate half-wit reminds us, another week of this and most students will have developed web
feet.

Cannon Fodder
We are tired of reading editorials and hearing speeches to the effect that “we can stay out of war only
by arousing a strong public opinion against war.” We already have a public opinion against war. We always have had,
but it always vanishes at the first threat to our “national honor” or at the first story of an outraged
American citizen whose property in Timbuctoo has been destroyed by warring governments. The people are suckers for war propaganda and
probably always will be. Something more than a public opinion in time of peace is necessary if the United States
is to stay out of the next big conflict that is bound to come.

The self-appointed patriots who attack any plan for peace as un-American and whose only idea for peace is preparation for
war are beginning to make themselves ridiculous, in view of their past success, but their organizations constitute the most powerful
pressure groups in the country. Unless we are going to continue to let them run our country and determine our
policies, you have got to do something about it. We will sooner or later start down the fatal road we
followed twenty years ago...

Unless we revise our military and naval policy so that it will be restricted to the protection of continental United
States against invasion. By demanding the right to protect American interests in every part of the world, the United States
will become automatically involved where conflict breaks out...

Unless we make our present farcical neutrality legislation practical by providing for mandatory embargoes on credits, munitions, loans, materials of
war, and essential raw materials when war breaks out, not when war is declared...

Unless we tax the profits out of war and preparation for war and make the munitions business a government affair...

Unless we ease international tension through reciprocal trade agreements and other economic readjustments...

Unless we prevent the War and Navy Departments from getting universal draft laws passed as advocated in the Industrial Mobilization
Plan, which provides for an actively operating dictatorship under military control which is fascism as bad as Hitler’s.

You are the cannon fodder for the next war. It may be defense of the national honor to the statesman,
but it is bloody death in a mud hole to you. Get busy.—The Emory Wheel.

Campus Comments
Besides football games, athletic events on the Davidson campus are primarily for the student body, the financial yields are negligible.
Since the basketball facilities for seating are most inadequate, the students and the faculty of Davidson should have prior rights
to the seats available. If outsiders cannot be excluded from these games, at least they should not have any special
rights. If they must come to our crowded games, they should scramble for themselves. Of course, though, there are exceptions:
namely, the parents of the players and the guests.

Last Saturday night the students and faculty had to come early to get good seats, and the place was packed.
But the straggling outsiders came in, and students were asked to give up their seats for them. This is not
fair. These outsiders know very little about the players. Their interests are small compared to those of the students. There
is such a thing as being a perfect host; but when the right of the students to see their own
athletes participate is usurped by the paying visitors, the host question should fade into oblivion. Since Davidson has a good
ball club this year and interest here is keen, surely it is only fair that this practice of catering to
the paying visitors instead of to those affiliated with Davidson should be stopped. Due to many reasons, there are few
basketball games on the campus, and the rights of the students should be observed.

CARL CARLSON.

P. S.—I request Tyler Port, President Honorary Fraternity Council, to write the next Campus Comments.

One of the foremost dramatic critics, among both men and women, is Eleanor Barnes, Los Angeles Daily News’ motion picture
editor. Her columns on films in Manchester Boddy’s famed tabloid are reliable, frank and honest. Besides editing movie copy, Miss
Barnes is music and theatre critic for The News. Fay King and Nell Brinkley, well-known artists and columnists, have illustrated
columns appearing daily in a large chain of papers.

CAMPUS CAMERA
Copyright by Associated Collegiate Press—Madison, Wisconsin

BUNNY LEAVITT, CHICAGO, IN 1935 TOSSED 499 SUCCESSIVE FREE THROWS! 4000 SPECTATORS WATCHED HIM PERFORM.

BUCKSHOT GIL KUHN WAS SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA'S NINTH SIGMA CHI FOOTBALL CAPTAIN IN TEN YEARS!

WEEDING THE CAMPUS
By AL CADE

We would like to be able to say, “We told you so,” but we didn't know it until the day
before it was announced. In case some of you haven't heard, Jan Garber, “Idol of the air-lanes,” will be here
for Mid-Winters. It's unbelievable. It's the best news the dancing element at Davidson has heard in a long, long time.
Ed and the Boys deserve a big hand for getting us a big name plus smooth rhythm. And Genial Jan
is the medicine man.

And the Administration gets a unanimous vote of thanks from the senior class for not having to go to chapel
or church during exams.

Thoughts while cramming
It’s a weary, weary world. And The Davidsonian advises that cramming does pay... And Coronet has crashed the coterie of
library magazines, for all you who are interested in the line drawings of Henry Kley. And Esquire has “The Wench
Is Not Amused” for the lads who think they’re pretty smooth. Shades of Queen Victoria.

We remember when Dr. Sarga was the international buffoon of the moment. And some pugnacious gentleman from Nebraska sent him
the following cablegram: “You married your wife for money. You are a faker. Let’s fight.”

Browsing through the Library we found a book by an author named Boring. Glad our name isn’t quite so obvious.
And in the home town paper column entitled “Mrs. Dull’s Cooking Lessons.”

Descriptive line in a parallel report... “In a country so young that its major occupation is the establishment of a
precedent.”

And what happened to the boy who didn’t want to be a king? New York stores are selling phonograph records
of his “Woman I Love” speech for $1.75.

Have you heard that lonesome wail introducing Gene Austin on the Joe Penner program? Eddie Cantor is slipping, Bobby Breen
smells, but Deanna Durbin is a real find. And fifteen-year-old...Old Betty Schultz made her debut in opera not long ago.
Shep Field’s Rippling Rhythm is still gaining in popularity, and that unique bubbling, effervescent introduction. And what happened to Paul
Whiteman and Judy Canova on the Sunday night 9:15 spot? And we miss the strains of “Oh Davidson” coming over
the air each week to introduce our own Davidson program. Jane Triviana... We thought it was in the spring that
a young man’s fancy turned. Maybe it’s this June in January weather. Famous sayings of famous people... Dunny Covington and
Fred McLean at the Salem hop. Fields Horine’s fraulein is an ex. Saturday Night Bridge Club holding forth in West
until five a.m. Neil Whitlock, Jake Jacobs, and Johnny Lattimer blowing bubbles Saturday night and not a pin in sight.
Bill Kiesewetter is a rival of Carolina’s cage captain in more than basketball. Tom Abbot has been teaching Gales McClintock
a pin game. Walter Heilman is soliciting weekend rides to Lexington—Reg Harris, Charlie Mauze, Harper Beall, John Withers, Char Fuller,
Salty Peters, Fred Dennis, Elmore Holt, and Pete McKnight getting warmed up for Mid-Winters at the N.C.C.W. hop of last
weekend. Teeny Lafferty and Jim Dorsett ought to get together that roommates-at-Queens proposition. Believe it, Willy Martin caught a ride
home in a plane. That’s all until after exams and may the gods of learning be gracious to you.

Beta Theta Pi—Brother Dick Cathey spent the weekend at his home in Gastonia. The chapter enjoyed the regular feed last
Sunday night.

Pi Kappa Alpha—Lawrence Hill went to Statesville, Jack Lafferty to Charlotte, Willie Moore to Cramerton, and Bob Anders to Charlotte
for the weekend.

Kappa Alpha—Reg Harris and Charlie Mauze attended a dance at W.C.U.N.C. in Greensboro last Saturday night. There was a feed
Sunday night, and guests included Sue Moffett, Mary Smithe, and Alma Ferguson.

Pi Kappa Phi—Dunny Covington went to a dance at Salem College in Winston-Salem. Salty Peters was in Greensboro for the
weekend. Installation of officers was held at the meeting last Thursday. The regular feed was held Sunday night.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon—Officers elected for the second semester are: Hoke Robinson, President; Kenneth Fryfogle, Vice-President; Fitzhugh Dade, Secretary. Brothers Ed
Armfield, George Matthis, and Bill Nicholson spent the weekend in Charlotte. Members enjoyed a feed Sunday night.

Kappa Sigma—Nancy King, Mary Letty Mebane, and Mickey Mason visited the chapter Saturday. The feed was held Sunday night.

Phi Gamma Delta—Tyler Hanes, newly-elected section chief, visited the chapter over the weekend. A feed was given in his honor
Sunday afternoon at which Dr. Cumming also was a guest. Jane Wiley paid a visit to the chapter Saturday night.
Brother Henry Baker went to Winston-Salem, and Elmore Holt to Greensboro for the weekend.

Phi Delta Theta—Mrs. Barnes, mother of Stewart Barnes, and Margaret Wilkerson and Helene Persons, students of W.C.U.N.C. in Greensboro, visited
the chapter this past weekend. There was the usual Sunday night feed.

Sigma Phi Epsilon—Brother Andy Turner and Walter Sawyer went to Greenwood, S.C., for the weekend. Mary Virginia Buckley and Betty
Baker visited the chapter Sunday afternoon. Alumnus John McInnis of Concord also paid a visit to the chapter.

Feeling certain that Nozy Broom’s column will be just one long eulogy to the Pan-Hellenic Council and their Mid-Winters orchestra,
we should like to agree with the old journalistic scourge just this once, and add our commendation to his. That
announcement in chapel Saturday, by the way, reached a new high in building up a climax; and it was a
surprised student body that found itself cheering instead of jeering when it was completed. Maybe we ought to sing “My
Dear, I Love You Truly,” to the council.

Here’s something that may or may not be true, but that struck us as an interesting bit of irony: A
certain recently married professor has spent nine hard months of preparation on papers which were to be submitted for a
coveted degree, and had them in order for presentation. Going to his desk to secure them, this young doctor was
disturbed to find them missing, distracted to find that a too-zealous servant had burned them for trash. His subsequent remarks
are not here quoted. We hope that’s just another case of unfounded rumor.

Stuff... The fellow who wrote “Gloomy Sunday” must have had Davidson in mind when he did it. Wonder what the
several hundred outsiders who saw the Cat-State basketball game Saturday night thought of the gym which was its setting? The
late Dr. Douglas was the only man who ever taught me math and made me like it. Parallel work would
take just about half the time and trouble if there were a room in the library where typewriters could be
used in connection with the reference books. Cuts are so arranged in every subject except R.O.T.C. so that a student
can miss school for a week without over-cutting.

In a country whose statute books contain so many laws that even the lawyers laugh about it, it’s unbelievable that
the most important anti-social act of them all should have been overlooked. All the petty crimes like murder and burglary
are covered, yet this heinous offense goes on right under all noses, and we sit idly by and do nothing.
I refer, of course, to this morbid tendency on the part of so many of our number to use their
new electric razors during the best of the radio programs. Rise up, you listeners-in, and let’s put a stop to
it! Are we men, or are we mice? (Don't answer that if you blush easily.) Ideal time for electric shaving:
during that darn musical-clock program.

Saturday afternoon’s victory over Duke’s wrestlers was something to be proud of, especially the win in the unlimited division. When
Duke puts a man in the unlimited class, they mean unlimited. The basketball showing that night was a good one,
too. The game was a lot closer, it seems to me, than the score would indicate. Maybe State had a
little too much color. We ought to put a white coat on Enoch and let him strut some time.

This being the last Davidsonian before exams are over, here are a few inside tips straight from the psychology department
on “How To Make An A—In Ten Easy Lessons.” (1) On the morning of an exam, sleep until about five
minutes before the exam begins: you don’t, it seems, forget while you sleep (of course, you don’t learn either, but
why bring that up?) (2) Don’t eat breakfast before an exam; a full stomach, while pleasant, makes you stupid. Personally,
I’d rather flunk than pass with hunger gnawing at my vitals. I’m going to have to flunk anyway—all my exams
come in the afternoon. And I’m darned if I’ll sleep all morning and then do without my lunch. A Phi
Beta Kappa might do it, but not the Kernel!
