WEDNESDAY, MARCH 17, 1937

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Davidson Band Presents Concert to Salem Group

Symphonic Band Enthusiastically Received — Mrs. Pfohl Plays Solos

QUARTETTE SINGS ALSO

Diminutive Vernon Lassiter Leads “O Davidson”

On Saturday night at 8:30 P.M., in the auditorium of Salem College in Winston-Salem, the Davidson College Symphonic Band gave a most successful concert under the direction of Prof. James C. Pfohl. This concert was one of the largest which the band, now in its fourth season, has ever played, and the audience was termed as one of the most receptive that has ever heard the band — which fact is evident by the many encores.

The opening number was “Chorale and Fugue in G Minor” by Bach-Abert. Next, the band was heard in “Serenade Roccoco” by Meyer-Helmund and “Amparito Roca” by Texidor. The concluding number of the first half of the program was the dashing “Hungarian Fantasy” by Liszt, in which the piano soloist was Mrs. Louise Nelson Pfohl. Mrs. Pfohl gave an encore “Valse” by Chopin.

Opening the second half of the program, the band played the modern “Manhattan Serenade” by Alter. Then came Caillet’s “Strains from Erin,” which combines the melodies of various Irish tunes, and Dvorak’s lilting “Humoreske.” The final number on the program was the crashing “Marche Slave” by Tschaikowsky.

The encores dispersed among the two parts of the program were “Colonel Bogey March” by Alford, which was conducted by Joseph Pfohl, director of the Winston-Salem high school band, “London Suite,” by Vail, “Glow Worm” by Lincke, during which small torches were lighted in different instruments of the band, “New Colonial March” by Hall, and “Cheerio,” by Goldman.

The concert was closed with “O Davidson!” which was conducted by Master Vernon Clarke Lassiter, who, although only three years old, appeared last fall as drum major with the Davidson college football band.

During the intermission, the audience was entertained by two numbers given by the quartet. They were “My Little Banjo” by Dichmont and “Mrs. Winslow’s Soothing Syrup” by Harrington.

DRESSED RABBIT attached to famous Box Bountiful or Gold Box . . . $3.00 complete. Regular Nunnally Packages may be had with special Easter decorations . . . no extra charge.

THE CANDY OF THE SOUTH

FLOWERS BY WIRE ANYWHERE

COLLEGE PHARMACY

Davidson’s “Service Drug Store”

MOVIES SHOWN FRIDAY NIGHT

“Jewels of Industry,” Story of Carborundum, Seen Again

DUPONT PRESENTS SHOW

Students View “Wonderworld” Of Chemistry

Two moving pictures were shown to the Chemistry and Physics students in the Chemistry building here last Friday night. Each of these was a two-reel picture.

The first picture shown was “Jewels of Industry.” This picture had been shown previously at Davidson. It dealt with the manufacture of aloxite and carborundum. Dr. Acheson, the discoverer of carborundum, illustrated how he first found this new substance. It also showed the manufacture of crystals of aloxite in huge furnaces. It takes an iron ball weighing one ton, dropped twenty feet, to break one of these large pigs of aloxite.

The second picture was “The Wonderworld of Chemistry.” This picture is distributed by the DuPont Company. It showed the manufacture of numerous useful articles used in everyday life from raw materials. One of the most interesting of these was a new substance with the same properties as rubber which was manufactured by this concern. The DuPont plant in Belle, W. Va., where ammonia, an important commercial product, is prepared, was the subject of part of this film. It showed the apparatus and machinery by which the intense heat and high pressures necessary are developed. Processes in the preparation of cellulose materials, cellophane, rayon, and like products, were explained. In this type of work, pine wood and cotton are used in abundance.

Four Hundred ROTC Corps

Most Freshmen, Few Upperclassmen Taking Military Science Course

As a general rule, a large majority in the freshman and sophomore classes take a course in R.O.T.C. But the situation changes in the junior and senior classes. When the freshman registers at Davidson, he either takes R.O.T.C. or Physical Ed. It is compulsory that he take one or the other. At present, there are 158 freshmen taking the course in R.O.T.C. 11 and 12. This leaves approximately 40 freshmen taking Physical Ed. There are 128 sophomores taking the second-year basic course, and there are approximately 42 taking the physical exercise and training under the supervision of the Director of Physical Education.

Physical Ed. has ceased being a class for the freshmen and sophomores. No more grades are entered in the Registrar’s office for this course. However, there is a three-semester hour course in Physical Education for juniors and seniors who wish to prepare for coaching athletics in the public schools. Coach Norman Shepard has this class, and at present, there are seven members in the class.

Earl Mellen and His Orchestra

MELLEN’S MELODEERS, who will play for the Junior Speaking Dances to be held this weekend at the Hotel Charlotte Ballroom. Earl Mellen is shown seated on the left. The orchestra is from Pittsburgh, Pa., originally and has had several big college engagements before coming here. (See story on page 6 of this issue).

Allen and Stewart Back From 10-Day Debate Trip

Uphold Affirmative of Maximum Hour and Minimum Wage Question

MEET FOUR OPPONENTS

Opposition Unusually Strong This Year

John D. Allen and Bob Stewart returned last Thursday from the southern debating trip, for which they left about ten days ago. Their first affirmative debate was at the College of Charleston in Charleston, S.C., where they upheld the Congress side of the question: Resolved: That Congress be empowered to fix minimum wages and maximum hours for industry. This was the question upon which they debated during the whole trip.

Their next debate was at Rollins College in Winter Park, Fla., where they attacked this same question from the negative side. From Rollins, they went to Gainesville, Fla., where, at the University of Florida, they again upheld the affirmative side. This latter debate was broadcast over radio station WRUF. Their last debate was with Emory University in Atlanta, Ga., the affirmative again being the side they defended.

Both Davidson men made the statement that on this trip they met the strongest of opposition. All debaters were exceptionally good, showing that these larger colleges have a great deal of respect for Davidson. At the University of Florida, both debaters were seniors in law school, one being president of the law school. At Emory, one of the debaters was a member of last year’s Emory International Debating team which they sent abroad.

The interest at this Emory debate was increased due to the fact that the audience was a Debate Forum. Two old acquaintances were renewed on this trip. At the University of Florida, Jan Garber was playing for the Mid-Winter Frolics and complimented the boys by playing “O Davidson!” At Emory, a member of the opposing team was a former Davidson student, John McClelland, cousin of Ralph McClelland.

Davidson Theatre

Friday, March 19
MAN OF THE PEOPLE—

Saturday, March 20
SECRET VALLEY—

Mon.-Tues., March 22-23
BELOVED ENEMY—

Wednesday, March 24
THEY WANTED TO MARRY—

The Best in Entertainment

LAUGHING AT TROUBLE—and Jane Darwell as that lovable mother—and the other a picture of a politician.

Richard Arlen and Virginia Grey in a Western Thriller

One of the greatest pictures of the year with Merle Oberon

Betty Furness and Gordon Jones, the pair who wanted to marry

RED SHELBY CHOSEN FOR CHEMICAL CAMP

Grades To Be Made Available March 24

Mr. F. W. Hengeveld, Davidson College Registrar, announces that the mid-semester reports will be available to the students on Wednesday, March 24. Students may get their reports by calling at his office at this time. All grades held by the professors must be turned in by Saturday, March 20, in order for the reports to be completed by the following Wednesday. These reports will be the only ones issued this semester except the ones following the examinations at the end of the year.

Shewmake Gives Talk

Edwin F. Shewmake of the English department of Davidson College made a talk Saturday morning to the Junior and Senior High School teachers of Charlotte on “What the English Department of Davidson College Expects of a High School Graduate.” Throughout his remarks, Shewmake centered his discussion around three heads, discussing the standard requirements in: Speaking, Reading, and Writing. He stressed in particular the importance of a good vocabulary as an aid to mastery of both college assignments in English and in other subjects.T.C. ‘Men Taking Typhoid Inoculations For Summer Camp

Anthony O. “Red” Shelby has been selected by the chemistry and military departments of the college to take six weeks of training at the Chemical Warfare School at Edgewood Arsenal, Maryland. Every year some member or members of the junior class in R.O.T.C. is chosen to spend the summer in camp in Maryland. Only men who are interested in chemistry and recommended by the chemistry department are given this honor. The other forty members of the junior military training class will receive the training which is specified for all men who take advanced R.O.T.C. at Fort McClelland, in Anniston, Ala. Many of these juniors who are going to camp in the summer are now nursing sore arms. This is because of War Department regulations which require that all men attending summer camps be vaccinated against typhoid fever and diphtheria. Vaccine for the (Continued on Page 8)

Inoculations accomplished drums; Bill Mellwinen at the piano; Me Warm,” and our ever-popular

CHUBBY KING'S BAND SWINGS NIGHTLY FOR HOTEL SUPPER GUESTS

Nine Piece Band Fast Becoming Popular Because of Distinctive Style

EXPECTS BUSY SEASON

“Swamp Fire” and “Goon-A-Goo” Popular Pieces

Come, my children, and have you heard Maestro King’s swing music of late? Well if you haven't, just wander down to the Hotel any evening from 6:30 to 7:00 and you will hear his sweet notes emanating from that popular dinner rendezvous. Dine, wine (?), and dance at no cover charge to the inimitable style of King and his performers such as Dave Newbold, Harry Kuykendall, and Walt Heilman on the saxophones; Paul McGarity and Bob Downie on the trumpets; Dick Wright on the trombone; Palmer Gill at the drums; and Johnson with the bass. Under the baton of our own maestro, the orchestra is fast becoming popular. At present, the orchestra is featuring new arrangements of the popular hits “Swamp Fire,” “Goon-A-Goo,” “I’ve Got My Love to Keep Me Warm,” and “Alma Davidson!” Visitors are cordially invited to drop in and leader “Chubby” King promises to fill all possible request numbers. The orchestra is looking forward to a busy schedule from now until the end of school and even after. They are anticipating several engagements with the fraternities as usual, for the spring banquets and dances. And this summer, our old acquaintance in music circles, Neil Whitlock, is planning to book the orchestra for regular engagements.

College Band Gives Concert

Symphonic Band Presented Second of Home Concerts Last Friday

The Davidson College Symphonic Band, under the direction of Professor James Christian Pfohl, presented their second home concert last Friday night at 8 o’clock in Chambers Auditorium. The last home concert was held just before the Christmas holidays. The following program was heard on Friday night. The opening number was the “Chorale and Fugue in G Minor” by Bach-Abert, in which the orchestra was accompanied at the organ by Prof. Thane McDonald. Next was Boecalari’s “Fantasia Di Concerto,” a baritone solo, played by Jack Tillotson. The two final numbers of the first part of the program were “Serenade Rococo” by Meyer-Helmund and “Overture from ‘Daphnis’” by Holmes. The second half of the program was begun with the modern “Manhattan Serenade” by Alter, in which all the instruments attempt to convey the manifold sounds of the crowded Manhattan district. This was followed by Caillet’s “Strains from Erin,” a group of interwoven Irish melodies, which builds up to the climax of “Auld Lang Syne.” The familiar lilting strains of Dvo- (Continued on Page 8)

DRY GOODS GROCERIES RADIO SUPPLIES HARDWARE

M. H. GOODRUM & CO. Zenith & RCA Radios

EXPERT WORKMANSHIP HIGHEST QUALITY

BUFF SHOE SHOP HALFSOLES HEELS O. C. BUFF, Prop.

CARS FOR RENT M. P. Henderson GULF GAS & OIL

as the reports below will show

Beta Theta Pi

Dave Sellers spent the weekend in Columbia, S.C. Dick Cathey went to his home in Gastonia for Saturday night. The election of officers will be held next Thursday night. The usual feed was held on Sunday night.

Pi Kappa Alpha

Walt Dickson visited Brother Archer, class of 1936, in Hickory over the weekend. Snoz Hill and Teeny Lafferty spent the weekend at their respective homes in Statesville and Concord. Duncan Johnson of St. Pauls, visited the chapter over the weekend. Ken Knorr attended the dance given at W.C.U.N.C.

Kappa Alpha

Bobby Abell went home to Chester, S.C. for the weekend. Coot Gladden attended the W.C.U.N.C. dances in Greensboro. Rex Lauck and Dixon went to Lynchburg over the weekend. The usual feed was held on Sunday night.

Pi Kappa Phi

A delightful spring party was held at the house on Friday evening. Among the guests were Cardelia Henderson, Pidge Laffette, Li Cranford, Grace Clark, Vera T. Boulware of Queens College; Mary Lib Moore, Alice Revis, Merle Fetner, and Betty Thompson of Gastonia. There was the usual feed on Sunday night. Brother Willis visited the chapter on Sunday.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon

Brothers Grover and Brown of Chapel Hill visited the fraternity on Friday and Sunday. Brothers Armfield, Mathis, and Lattimer went to the founders’ day celebration in Columbia, S.C. Kenneth Fryfogle returned to school after a three-week recovery from an operation.

Kappa Sigma

Brothers Elder, Mipp, and Kuykendall spent the weekend in Greensboro. The District President of Kappa Sigma spent Sunday with the chapter. The usual feed was held Sunday night.

Phi Gamma Delta

Brother Bletner of Washington visited the chapter. Tyler Port spent the weekend in Spartanburg. The usual feed was held on Sunday night. Brother Cooke went to Greensboro and Brothers Vogler and Stuart went to Winston-Salem to a dance in the Robert E. Lee Hotel.

Phi Delta Theta

Brother Reinhardt attended the dances at W.C.U.N.C. in Greensboro. Brother Glenn went to his home in Spartanburg over the weekend. A feed was held on Sunday night.

Sigma Phi Epsilon

Brother Walker Harper went to Augusta for the weekend. A few brothers attended a dinner party at Tenners’ on Saturday evening in Charlotte. Warren Ogletree of Gainesville, Fla., visited the chapter over the weekend. Brothers Moore, Turner, and Raider went to Newton. Dick Vowles went to Greensboro. Officers of the N.C. Epsilon chapter were elected last Thursday. They are: Henry Lyons, president; Dick Vowles, vice-president; Bill Rader, comptroller; Bill Breadway, historian; Terrell Porter, Lawrence Lowrence and Andy Turner, guards; and Walter Sawyer, marshal.

Sigma Phi Nuthin

Brothers Johnston, Clark, (Harpo) Wilson, and Quick were elected presidents of the Nuthin Chapter for the coming year. Maurice Peabody suffers from a rendezvous cold. Heman Clark is doing a Lon Chaney so Dr. Hood can tell him apart from his kinsman, Mr. Bill Black.

SPANISH SOCIETIES INITIATE (Continued from Page 3)

bold, M. N. Pleasants, and C.W. Roberts. After the two initiations, a short business session was held. The president announced the opening of the third annual essay contest sponsored by the Sigma Delta Pi. Prof. F.K. Fleagle and Dale Shelby were nominated to compose a committee to draw up plans for a chapel program. This program will be presented on April 14th, which is Pan-American Day, and is sponsored jointly by the two Spanish societies. After the meeting, refreshments were served and a short social hour was enjoyed by all.

How will you look for Easter?

See Yourself As Others See You— Marion Davis Co. 205 South Tryon St.

Whatever You Need To Be Well Dressed Come To—