WEDNESDAY, MARCH 24, 1937 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Three

CURRIE THINKS CAMPUS MUCH CHANGED NOW
“Y” Speaker Misses Old Chambers and Old Louisiana Buildings
RECALLS ‘D’ INVITATIONS
Baseball Used to Be Most Popular Sport

“Life on the Davidson College campus has greatly changed since I was a student here,” stated the Rev. A. L.
“Buck” Currie, who conducted the spring Y. M. C. A. services last week. “When I was a student,” continued Mr.
Currie, who graduated in the class of 1921, “a number of boys were still living in old Chambers and in
Old Louisiana, a dormitory which had been made out of Dr. Shearer’s house, which was located just across the street
from Shearer Hall and which is now torn down.”

During Mr. Currie’s college career the “D” Club was a very active organization and inflicted severe and harsh initiations. After
“giving the works” to the new men, the members of the club rushed the dormitories and hazed whoever they might
find. Mr. Currie states that he remembers that during his senior year, he went with several members of the “D”
Club into the room of Prof. E. A. Beatty, who was his classmate, and made him get on top of
the table and dance and sing.

“Baseball,” he continued, “was the most popular sport on the campus. Football was also popular, though it was not played
on the large scale that it is now. During my sophomore year Davidson had three representatives on the All-America football
team.”

Mr. Currie held the pastorate at the First Presbyterian Church in Huntington, West Virginia, for the past four years. Before
accepting this charge he was pastor of a church in Kentucky, and later in Nashville, Tenn.

“The flood waters from the surging Ohio just missed my church by about fifty yards,” stated Mr. Currie. “However, nine-tenths
of the city was inundated. My church was turned into an emergency hospital, and it was not until Sunday before
last that we had been able to use the Sunday School department since the first of January, since sick refugees
were still quartered in it.”

When asked about the coming centennial, Mr. Currie said he thought it would be one of the greatest events in
the history of the college. “You can rest assured that I’m going to do my best to get here to
it,” he added.

Ever since he entered the ministry Mr. Currie has been active in young people’s work. “I haven’t missed a young
people’s conference in the last twelve years,” he commented; “and at many conferences I have taught classes or led the
vesper services.”

While a student at the college Mr. Currie was a star pitcher on the baseball team. After he graduated he
played professional baseball for two years, then returned to the college and served one year as “Y” secretary and one
year as baseball coach. Afterwards he went to the Louisville Seminary for his training for the ministry.

RHETT TO INSPECT STATE R.O.T.C. UNIT
Military Science Professors Will Inspect Other Units In Area

Lieut.-Col. John T. Rhett, professor of military science and tactics here at Davidson, will inspect the Reserve Officers Training Corps
unit at North Carolina State College in Raleigh on April 27 and 28, this year. This year for the first
time all R. O. T. C. units in the Fourth Corps Area will be inspected by a P. M. S.
and T. from some other unit within the area.

As plans stand at present Lieut.-Col. M. E. Gunner, of the military science department at the University of Tennessee, will
inspect the Davidson battalion sometime after the spring holidays. Col. Caffrey of the University of North Carolina will inspect the
Wofford College unit on April 29 and 30, Wofford’s Major Tate will serve as inspector for the R. O. T.
C. unit at the University of Tennessee on May 13 and 14.

Spring Issue of Magazine Appears in Bright Cover
Poll of Campus Opinion and Beauty Contest Results Are Reported

The long-awaited spring issue of Scrips 'n Pranks, Davidson’s well-liked magazine, has at last shown itself, and has been received
quite well by the student body. An attractive front cover by none other than that talented artist, Sam Ryburn, adorns
the new edition and depicts a young spring birdie in his bright yellow suit sitting on a limb emitting his
shrill notes.

Upon turning the page we find a tribute to spring and going further we read a little story, “Spring Sorrow,”
by Hugh Stone. This tale of a college lad and his had-been lady love is true to life and very
enjoyable.

The next page bears the article for which the student body had been waiting for so long — the poll
of campus opinion which was gathered and compiled from the sheets given to the students some time ago. This contained
voting for the most popular girls in school, radio program, comedian, orchestra, magazine and many other interesting subjects. As was
expected, the Briarhopper Boys completely annihilated all competition for the ‘Most unpopular radio program.’ On the same poll the students
expressed their desire for the quarter system instead of the present semester system and they also opposed President Roosevelt’s proposed
judiciary change. Other results from this poll of 442 signed questionnaires may be found in the magazine.

Al Cade, the snoopy snooper super sleuth of “Sweeping the Campus” fame, contributes a good article in the form of
“The Wish of Don Jose,” and this is followed by Gib Smith’s story, “Black Love.” “Davidson Data” contains many not-too-well-known
little bits of interest concerning the college.

Another feature that held the interest of students was the page of pictures of the most beautiful girls whose pulchritude
adorns the bureaus of their masculine admirers here. This is well worth looking at. Bob Johnston and Harold Sugg also
have good articles in this issue, and there are poems by Russell Kerr and Bill MacIlwinen. Of course the jokes
were at the back, but they received a lot of attention.

Editor Hal Overton and his boys have done a great job on this last issue and we are anxiously waiting
for the Centennial Issue, which is to be published later on, and they hope to make it a forty or
fifty-page edition. Overton says it should be the best of all, and we are looking forward to it.

BRYANT ADDRESSES YMCA, BOYS CLUB
Draws Morals From Lives of Dwight L. Moody and Gipsy-Smith

On last Sunday afternoon, March 21, Marion Bryant, member of the “Y” cabinet in charge of boys’ work, went to
the Charlotte Y. M. C. A. where he spoke to the combined younger and older boys’ groups on “The Life
of Dwight L. Moody.” His audience was composed of boys from six to eighteen years of age.

Using as his example the evangelist whose 100th anniversary is being celebrated this year, Bryant drew conclusions about successful and
fruitful living for his hearers. Moody, as he pointed out, started life as a business man, successful in a financial
way, but lacking mature direction in his work. After he was converted he became one of the greatest preachers Christianity
has ever known.

Bryant pointed out that a man’s Christianity, if just thought about and not actually applied, does him little good and
serves to influence no one for Christ. Intellectual religion led to intellectual skepticism, he said in effect.

Finally, comparing Moody to the evangelist of today, Gipsy Smith, who was then holding a series of services in Charlotte,
Bryant urged his hearers to emulate those leaders of Christianity and to convert their convictions into strong Christian lives. This
group meets every week at the “Y” to hold devotional services. The work is supervised by men vitally interested in
boys’ work.

Spanish Books Put in Library
Biographies of Johnson, Chopin, Emerson, and Roosevelt Added

A new series of biography and personality studies are included in the spring orders which have been coming in at
the library, as well as several timely volumes on the Spanish War. The jackets of the former have been posted
downstairs and the jackets from the Spanish books are upstairs. All books actually in circulation may be seen in the
main reading room.

The biographical works include biographies or sketches of the following: Samuel Johnson, Chopin, Emerson, and Roosevelt, among others.Pascal, Cicero upstairs.
New books on one of the tables include the following: Johnson, Emerson, and Roosevelt. Books on Spain include “Behind the
Spanish Barricades,” “Lean Men,” “The Olive Field,” and “Seven Red Sundays.” Also posted on the smaller bulletin board is the
jacket of “Skyways to a Jungle Laboratory,” describing flying experiences over Africa. Any of these books which are not on
the shelves may be reserved by filling out a card at the desk.

BRADLEY WINS A FELLOWSHIP
Will Enable Him to Continue Chemistry at University of Virginia

W. Davidson senior, Harris Bradley, was recently awarded a DuPont Service Fellowship offered by the University of Virginia. This fellowship
amounts to $600, and it will enable him to continue his work in the field of chemistry next fall.

However, the fellowship is not for work in chemistry, but for musical work. Bradley will act as an assistant to
the director of the band at the University, and his study of chemistry will be done on the side. His
band duties really allow more time for study than an ordinary assistantship in chemistry or some other subject. Bradley obtained
this fellowship through a member of the University of Virginia faculty, Dr. Robert E. Lutz, professor of Chemistry, and director
of their band. An application for an assistantship in chemistry was first submitted, but when Dr. Lutz learned of Bradley’s
musical experience here at Davidson and at schools before he came here, he proposed the band assistantship. In his application
to the University, Bradley submitted letters of recommendation from Professor James Christian Pfohl, director of music here, and also from
several members of the chemistry department and administration. He expects to go to the University sometime this spring in person
and he will conclude his arrangements at that time.

Frosh Baseball Men Whipping Into Shape

“My freshman baseball team looks like a different club,” said Coach Norman W. Shepard after a week's intensive hitting practice.
Dunford at first base; Gray Hunter, third base; Fitzgerald, shortstop; Richmond and Cagle, catchers; Ficklen, McLean and Hudson, pitchers; and
Casali, Harnsberger, Watkins and Currie in the outfield are bidding strong for berths on the team, which will play leading
junior college teams this season.

THE LAST WORD...
Success is the art of making the other fellow supply your wants.

Believing that he still has something to learn about singing, Jack Fulton, radio’s romantic tenor, has enrolled for courses in
De Paul University’s college of drama and music. Campus politics at the University of Illinois went “professional” recently when seniors
used a voting machine to count ballots in the election of class officers.

MRS. DAVIDSON
Station WBT Broadcasts

Pictured above is the former Miss Alice Gage of Chester, S. C., who was married to Mr. Chalmers Davidson, head
librarian of Davidson College, on last Saturday night.

Radio Program Easter Music Featured By Band, Glee Club, Quartette and Orchestra

On Tuesday night of this week, the Davidson College program was unusually good and appealed greatly to all who heard
it. The program opened as usual with the playing of “O Davidson!” and “College Ties” by the Symphonic Band. This
was followed by “Manhattan Serenade,” a fairly new piece written by Louis Alter. The latter selection is a type of
modernistic music which is quickly gaining popularity and has an entirely different style of rhythm from what we have always
heard. “Manhattan Serenade” was not originally written for band but has recently been arranged for use by such large organizations.

Following this, the quartette rendered the third of its fraternity series singing a song of Kappa Alpha. This was arranged
into four-part harmony by Mr. Pfohl. A marimba solo, “The Mocking Bird,” by Wallace Marley, of Lenoir, came after the
quartette, and was one of the best numbers on the program. This new instrument is played regularly in the band
by the soloist, Fred Hengeveld. Mr. W. Davidson, registrar of the college, was then interviewed by Conrad Frederick Smith on
“Registration of a Freshman” and will probably be of some help to those new men who will enter later on.
Next came a very beautiful number, rendered by the Little Symphony Orchestra and the Glee Club jointly, which was “In
A Monastery Garden.” The club sang the chant of the monks in the refrain and at the concluding chords of
the piece. Mr. Pfohl followed this with a cornet solo, “The Palms,” which is very appropriate for the Easter season.
The hymn of the program was “O Sacred Head Now Wounded” and the next was the concluding piece.

Lingle Speaks About Easter

Dr. Walter L. Lingle, president of Davidson College, spoke here Sunday afternoon at a meeting of the ministerial band. He
spoke on “Easter.” Before the main part of his talk, Dr. Lingle gave the members some advice on the time
element in sermons. He advised them to start on time, close on time, and never to allow the congregation to
be reminded of the time during the sermon.

The main part of Dr. Lingle’s talk dealt with “What the Resurrection of Christ Means to Us.” Dr. Lingle said
that it means that we have a Saviour who saves us from sin, and who gained this status through His
death on the cross. He said that the Resurrection of Christ also means that we have a Living Saviour. Dr.
Lingle said that the belief that we have a Living Saviour means a great deal to those who have had
personal experience with Him. Before the address by Dr. Lingle, there was a short business meeting of the group. Locke
Vass read the Scripture, and L. S. Fisher led in prayer.

LIVELY FEATURE OF EU MEETING
Finley Charges Moseley With Disorderly Conduct During Meeting

DON DAVIDSON ELECTED MEMBER
Allen Has Constitutional Amendment Passed

Tuesday night the Eumanean Literary Society held a regular meeting in the Eumanean Hall, with President John D. Allen presiding.
Donald Davidson, as a prospective member, gave a talk on “The History of Organ Construction,” supporting and supplementing his statements
with actual facts and illustrations from the organ now in Chambers auditorium. After his address he was nominated for membership
and elected to the society.

A heated debate between Mr. Moseley and Mr. Finley arose when Finley charged Moseley with disorderly conduct. Moseley counter-charged Finley
with neglect of duty. For a while it was feared that fists would fly and the meeting would develop into
a free-for-all, but order was at length restored with no casualties recorded. President Allen took advantage of the absence of
the opposition leader, Bob Stewart, to pass an amendment to the constitution providing for only two presidential terms instead of
three. Stewart, in a statement to the press, bitterly charged that Allen had railroaded this measure through in order that...

Miriam Hopkins says: “My throat welcomes Luckies—my favorite cigarette for 5 years”

An independent survey was made recently among professional men and women—lawyers, doctors, lecturers, scientists, etc. Of those who said they
smoke cigarettes, more than 87% stated they personally prefer a light smoke. Miss Hopkins verifies the wisdom of this preference,
and so do other leading artists of the radio, stage, screen and opera. Their voices are their fortunes. That’s why
so many of them smoke Luckies. You, too, can have the throat protection of Luckies—a light smoke, free of certain
harsh irritants removed by the exclusive process “It’s Toasted”. Luckies are gentle on the throat.

A Light Smoke “It’s Toasted” —Your Throat Protection AGAINST IRRITATION—AGAINST COUGH

*Luckies have been my favorite cigarette for about 5 years. They’re a light smoke that sensitive throats welcome. Of the
many trends that sweep through Hollywood, one of the longest lasting has been the preference for Luckies. I once asked
a ‘property’ man—who supplies cigarettes to the actors—what the favorite is. He answered by opening up a box containing cigarettes.
They were all Luckies.”

STAR OF THE RKO RADIO PICTURE “THE WOMAN I LOVE”

THE FINEST TOBACCOS— “THE CREAM OF THE CROP” Copyright 1937, The American Tobacco Company
