4 Merry Christmas! Z528 ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS Happy New Year! VOL. XXV DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., WEDNESDAY,
DEC. 15, 1937 No. 18 Twelve Men Are Bid By J. R. C Club Seven Seniors and Five Juniors Are
Elected to Membership Seven seniors and five juniors have been issued bids to the International Relations Club, it was announced
by President Dorsett, Dec. 13. Invitations were extended to the following seniors: Charlotte: Fitzhugh Dade. Frankfort, Ky.: Euclid Fant. Sherman,
Texas: Elmore Holt. Greensboro: Springs Pharr. Davidson: Lawrence Reid. Winston-Salem: Yates Faison, Charlotte. The five juniors who received bids are
Warren Gaw, John Reisner, Sam Hemphill, Perry Sloan, and Sam Newell. The initiates will prepare 750-word papers on some topic
of international interest and these papers will be read at the initiation, to be held sometime in January. The International
Relations Club is, as implied by its name, an organization which recognizes interest manifested in affairs of worldwide importance, and
has as its purpose the study of these affairs. Although the local club has remained dormant during the past few
years, plans for a revival have been made, according to President Jim Dorsett. An interesting series of meetings are being
planned for the spring. Numbered in the group of initiates are many campus leaders. Charlie Brown, Kappa Sigma, is a
member of Omicron Delta Kappa, leadership fraternity. Fitzhugh Dade is assistant editor of The Davidsonian and a member of Sigma
Alpha Epsilon. Euclid Fant, Kappa Sigma, served last year as managing editor of The Davidsonian, and is now an associate
on the staff. Holt, of Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity, is varsity cheerleader. Pharr, Sigma Alpha Epsilon, is on the
R. O. T. C. battalion staff and the rifle team. Lawrence Reid, Phi Gamma Delta, co-manages the Students’ Store, and
Yates Faison, Sigma Alpha Epsilon, has served as varsity football manager this year. Medical Frat Initiates Five Professor Patton Addresses
Pre-Med Group Five new men were initiated into the ranks of the local chapter of Alpha Epsilon Delta, honorary pre-medical
fraternity, at the meeting of that body last Thursday night. The initiates are: Douglas Neal of Ruffin, N. C.; Henry
Cutchin of Whitakers, N. C.; Tom Daniel of Oxford; Holmes Lanier of Marion; and Bill Bradburn of New Orleans, La.
Congratulating the new men, Professor Avery Patton, of the college chemistry department, addressed the group. Professor Patton discussed the difficulties
that a pre-medical student may expect to encounter and stated that Alpha Epsilon Delta would help meet these difficulties by
bridging the gap between the undergraduate school and the medical school. A general business session was held following the talk,
and plans were laid for the chapter to visit Duke Memorial Hospital. Also, arrangements were furthered to secure prominent physicians
from neighboring cities for lectures here. The program for the first meeting after Christmas was projected, Joe Bailey being asked
to lecture on the relation of photography, including X-ray, to medicine. J. B. Graham, president of the chapter, announced that
information and statistics concerning medical schools had been received by him from Dr. Morris Fishbein, editor of the American Medical
Journal, and were available to anyone interested. Too many people dispose of all their problems by saying, “I'll take care
of it next week.” Alumni Journal Will Appear Next Month Will Be Diversified Issue; To Include Stories and Anecdotes The
Alumni Journal will make its appearance next month with one of the most diversified issues ever published, according to Fred
Smith, alumni secretary. This issue will include many interesting stories and anecdotes concerning the alumni. One of the feature stories
will be “Davidson in the Seventies,” by Dr. George F. Robertson. This story will deal with the experiences and happenings
of the students, such as the buggy rides, and the gay life that was enjoyed during that period. In conjunction
with this story, there will be a companion feature story, “Belle of the Seventies,” written by a Charlotte woman. Another
important story to be published in the coming issue of the Journal is by H. S. Shaw, class of 1908.
Mr. Shaw, teacher and coach at Haverford College, Pennsylvania, has a unique record. He has recently completed his eleventh year
as coach, having lost only 11 games and tied two. I. A. (Chief) Mullen of the class of 1916, who
now lives in New York, is the topic of one of the stories. Mr. Mullen was once a member of
the State Department, whose job it was to look after and entertain visiting statesmen and other celebrities. In this work,
he met many important men of the world. The article in the Journal will be about the life of this
man, and certain interesting events and experiences which have happened to him, especially while acting as a member of the
State Department. Mrs. Pfohl Will Be On Charity Concert Mrs. James Christian Pfohl, well known as a pianist and musician,
will give a concert in Charlotte on December 19, at 3 o'clock. The concert, sponsored by the Charlotte Observer, is
for the purpose of raising funds for charity. Mrs. Pfohl, wife of Professor James Christian Pfohl, has done extensive study
at the University of Michigan and also abroad. She has given numerous recitals and concerts here at Davidson. Various musical
organizations of Charlotte are to participate and complete the program. The Avon Players, under the direction of Joseph Selman, will
return to Davidson on Jan. 10, 1938, presenting “Othello,” one of the great tragedies of Shakespeare. They will again be
sponsored by the Red and Black Masquers, according to Prof. D. Erwin, faculty director of dramatics. Last year the Avon
Players gave “The Merchant of Venice” here in a very creditable and popular performance. This year’s trip is their eighth
national tour, and the three Shakespearian tragedies in their repertoire are “Hamlet,” “Macbeth,” and “Othello.” Joseph Selman, director of the
company, is a veteran of the legitimate stage, having toured America and the British Dominions since early youth. He has
appeared in leading roles with such illustrious names as the late Mrs. Fiske, Mary Pickford, George M. Cohan, Wallace Beery,
Edward G. Robinson, and many other favorites of the American stage. According to the advance notices, “Mr. Selman has brought
the best in his artists to the fore, in scenes of vivid romance, clothing his characters in the costumes to
which they lived, and using his light effects to the best advantage. Their distinguished group of players include such artists
as Eugenie DuBois, David Hemminger, George Colbert, Jo Anne Davis, Robert Selman, and Dorothy Miller, all of whom are highly
talented artists.” Miss Jo Anne Davis and Robert Selman are members of the Avon Players cast which will present “Othello”
in Chambers Auditorium, January 10. Last year this company gave “The Merchant of Venice” at Davidson. Wildcat Baskeeters Win Season’s
Opener Present Drama Victory The 1937 edition of Davidson's cage team opened the season by bowling over a light- 51-21.
Ned Iverson, big Wildcat forward, rang up 11 points to top the scorers. Cowan and J. D. Hicks followed with
ten and nine counters, respectively. After a slow first period, the Wildcats opened up in the second half with a
whirlwind attack to pull far in the lead. The entire team began hitting the basket and proved too good for
their game opponents. Entire Squad The entire squad took part in the contest, each man playing fine ball. Captain Tyler,
Ostendorf, and Rystowsky played spirited ball for the losers. Tyler and Ostendorf rang up six points each to lead their
team, while Rystowsky played a fine floor game. Tice Stars Little Johnny Tice kept the crowd in an uproar with
his continuous ball-hawking and fine floor play, while Captain Billy Kiesewetter played a fine game at his guard position in
addition to ringing up eight points. The Wildcats have one more game scheduled before the Christmas holidays, a tentative engagement
with the Guilford Quakers, on the sixteenth. For the reserves, Bill Boyd, sharp shooting guard, Swede Johnston, blonde New Yorker,
and Bennie Harrison, sophomore performer, were the standouts. Scripts and Pranks Is Out Today Bob Miller Wins Candid Camera Contest
This year’s second issue of Scripts and Pranks is out this afternoon. This is the Christmas issue and includes among
other interesting things the winner of the snapshot contest. Bob Miller of the junior class won the contest with a
unique photograph of a student crawling around the ledge and into the window of East Dormitory. The title of the
picture is “The Hinman Fly.” There will be a full page of the best snapshots turned in for the contest.
The title of the whole page is “Candid Campus.” Editor Sam Ryburn acted as the only judge. The front cover
of this issue of the magazine will be a snow scene representing the Christmas Spirit. The cover will be in
blue and white colors. Other features of the humor book are a style portrait section on what the smart young
college man is wearing this season. This page is featured by B. T. Plyler. Stories will be “The Death” by
Erle Austin, “Ring and Necklace” by Jack Ul, and “Tough Luck” by Gordon Horton. There will be several lino cuts
by Gordon Horton and Chal Vinson. Cartoonists contributing in this issue are Fred Harbin, Bob Miller, Locke White, and Ed
Shewmake. Jokes help to round out the issue. Davidson Men Off to Trials! Davidson's campus leaders will compete this week
against the outstanding student leaders of the state in Rhodes Scholarship competitions. Watson Street, Haywood Hill, Bill Kiesewetter, Dick Vowles,
Pete McKnight, and Wade Boggs will appear before the state committees in North Carolina, South Carolina, Virginia, and Louisiana. Hill
left Tuesday for Richmond, where he will compete this weekend. Bill Kiesewetter, Dick Vowles, and Pete McKnight will appear with
twelve other men in the Duke University Union. The winners in Virginia and North Carolina will compete before the district
committee in Atlanta, Ga. Watson Street is one of ten who will try out in Alabama. He will be pitted
against representatives of such schools as Duke, Washington & Lee, and the University of Virginia. Wade Boggs, who leaves today
for New Orleans, will appear before the Louisiana state committee on Dec. 18, with students from Texas University, Tulane, LSU,
and Alabama. Hill and Watson Street are members of the same district, which will have the final eliminations at New
Orleans.was + Your “Symphonic pcttat Presented By, Music Artists: ing College of Charleston Miss Ann Nisbett, Harpist, and Franklin Riker,
Tenor, ~~ Feature Program A Christmas Music & Vespers Service, marked by beauty and solemnity, was presented by the Yo
MOG... in Chambers Auditorium Sunday evening at 7:36. The visiting soloist of the evening was Miss Ann Nisbett of Winston
Salem. While people were entering the auditorium, Prof. Thane McDonald played soft melodies on the celeste and organ. The prelude
played by the Little “hat Up Heads” from Handel’s “Messiah” was followed by an old French Christmas carol. The Glee
Club, led by Haywood Ut, presented the prayer.

Main Program
The main part of the program was separated into three divisions: The Prophecy, the Birth, and the Adoration. Before each
of these divisions, Bill Kiesewetter read appropriate passages from the scriptures. Franklin Riker, Professor of Voice, sang two solos from
Handel’s “Messiah” for the Prophecy, “Comfort Ye My People” and “Every Valley Shall Be Exalted.” For the Birth, Miss Nisbett
rendered a solo of selected Christmas carols on her harp. The Glee Club sang the familiar French carol “Angels Over
the Fields Were Flying” for the Adoration. This was followed by the audience singing familiar carols, such as “Silent Night”
and “Joy to the World.” The musical number was Handel’s final and: “Hallelujah Chorus.” Professor Ut pronounced the benediction and
the Glee Club gave a choral amen.

Annual ‘Y’ Drive Gets Christmas Gift Fund; Money to Go to War-Torn Area
The annual Y Christmas gift drive has now begun and is in full process of operation under the direction of
Charles Dixler. A total of $211.25 has been pledged already, and pledges from Watts and Georgia Dormitories have not been
turned in as yet. From those turned in so far, Watts is leading with $70, East with $58, Rumple with
$31.28, South with $19.25, and North with $12. Boys in town have pledged $5. However, this is not the final
estimate for the entire fund. It has been requested by the Y.M.C.A. and Mr. Riker that all those who are
leaving early for the holidays will please make their subscriptions before leaving. The goal set this year for the fund
is eight hundred dollars, which will go to China for a number of uses, the most urgent of which are
the care of wounded soldiers, supplies, transportation of food for missionaries, care of sick people, and setting up of better
shelters for them to live in, and a host of other important needs for the war-stricken area.

Davidsonian Tries Linotype Invention
The Davidsonian is the second newspaper in the world to use type set by the semagraph, an operator-less, automatic linotype
machine. Here are the “sample” lines set by the semagraph in the presence of the Davidson journalism class: Meanwhile, the
Davidson students were watching Mr. Bridges of the Observer mechanical department set up this paragraph on the semagraph. The semagraph,
invented by a Charlotte machinist and linotypist, is being used as an experiment by The Charlotte Observer.

Southern Football Meet Abolishes Athletic Scholarship
As if moving toward complete separation with the giant-like leaps of her sister group, the Southeastern Conference, the Southern Conference
took away several important clauses from the famous “Graham Plan” in its annual session on Dec. 10-11, with Davidson casting
its ballot with the majority. Refusing even to second the dramatic proposal of Virginia Poly to discard the entire document
of Dr. Frank Graham, the Conference passed the suggestion of the executive committee to strike out the following part of
Rule 13.

Discarded Rule
“No student shall represent his university or college in athletic contests who receives funds from others than those upon whom
he is naturally dependent for financial aid, money, by gift or loan, or the equivalent of money, such as board,
unless the source and character of these gifts and payments shall be approved by the faculty committee on the ground
that they have not accrued to him primarily because of his ability as an athlete.”

This motion was passed by a count. The only schools failing to cast a favorable ballot were the University of
North Carolina and N.C. State, both of which are headed by Dr. Frank Graham, author of the “Graham Plan.” Soon
after this first section was voted out, the Conference, at the proposal of the Citadel, struck out this paragraph: “Any
terms of scholarship which by their will or gift is limited by its promises of award to members of a
particular family or group or to students in particular geographic areas, and in order to be open to one athlete,
must not be based primarily on athletic skill; must be published in the catalogue and must be approved by the
faculty committee on scholarship.”

Two Plays and One Dialogue Are Given at Home of Dr. Goldiere
The Cercle Francais held one of its most important meetings of the year at the home of Dr. A.F. Goldiere
on Tuesday evening, Dec. 1. At the meeting, two French plays and one dialogue were given by new members. The
first was a short dramatization in which Edwin Edwards, David Sprunt, and Wade Wachers took the only three parts. It
is a story of two country rogues who go to a quack doctor for a cure of sickness caused by
drinking. David Sprunt plays the part of the doctor. Next on the program was a dialogue entitled “Rue de Province,”
which was given by Chase Irene and Whoston Taylor. These were followed by a longer dramatization enacted by associate members,
Remizer, Kc Taylor, Vannes, Sprunt, and Wade Barrow. The longer dramatization enacted was “Hardi de Bridge.” The story is of
a man who becomes too sick to play bridge with three male companions and calls the doctor. The doctor finds
the bridge game much more interesting than treating his patient. However, the groans of the ailing member become so loud
and objectionable that the doctor is at last forced to quit the game for a moment to administer morphine, which
quiets the patient sufficiently for him to go back to his game. The theme of the play is to show
how unimportant sickness is compared to a bridge game. Those taking part in this play are Sid Crane, Bob King,
Sam Spencer, Oscar Armstrong, Newton Smith, Wade Barrow, and Terrell Porter.

Down Beat Holds Band Contest
Magazine Publishes Popularity Results
“Down Beat,” a well-known magazine which publishes popular music coast to coast, has recently published the first returns in its
popularity contest of orchestras and musicians. Benny Goodman is leading in the department of swing bands, with Bob Crosby and
Tommy Dorsey in a dead heat for second place. Hal Kemp is far and away the leader of the sweet
bands, with Glen Gray’s Casa Loma orchestra in second place and once popular Guy Lombardo far in the rear. The
most popular soloist is Benny Goodman on the clarinet, with Tommy Dorsey and Lionel Hampton respectively in second and third
places. Ella Fitzgerald, colored songstress with Chick Webb's swing aggregation, leads in the field of vocalists. Best alto sax player
is Jimmy Dorsey, while the best tenor sax is Chu Berry with Cab Calloway’s band. Goodman is an easy leader
in clarinet doubling sax.

Boys and girls with sturdy bodies but limited intellects can be useful citizens if too much is not expected of
them. We've tried everything, even ideas, but ideas don't take the place of free reeds. He has rebuilt it three
times, places. Ella Fitzgerald, colored songstress with Chick Webb's swing aggregation, leads in the field of vocalists. Best alto sax
player is Jimmy Dorsey, while the best tenor sax is Chu Berry with Cab Calloway’s band. Goodman is an easy
leader in clarinet doubling sax.

Tommy Dorsey is in the trombone field. Two members of Goodman’s swing band, Gene Krupa and Teddy Wilson, are the
best in their respective instruments, the former with drums and the latter on the piano. Bunny Berigan leads by a
vast margin among the trumpeters. Carmen Mastren boasts the best guitar, and Bob Haggart, bass fiddler with Bob Crosby’s Dixieland
Swing Band, is also tops in his field. The best arrangement for the year goes to Benny Goodman for his
“Sing, Sing, Sing,” while Tommy Dorsey’s “Song of India” is in second place and Duke Ellington’s “Caravan” is third. “Sing,
Sing, Sing” was also voted the best record, and Dorsey’s “Marie” was second in this field, with Quintet’s trom “Powerhouse”
third. Votes were also taken in the “Corny” field. Henry Busse plays the corniest trumpet, with Clyde McCoy a close
second, corny trombonist is Ted Weems, while corny sax goes to Carmen Lombardo.

Editorial Features
Merry Christmas! from The Davidsonian
Phi Beta Kappa, an editorial by Pete McKnight.
Davidson Gentleman, a letter to Scout Quintet’s trom from Torrey Mclean.
Masquers explain what happened to “The Bishop Misbehaves.”
King For a Day with Wade (room-mate) Barrow as guest columnist.
Take It Easy. More from columnist Miller.
Students Respond to Christ-
