WEDNESDAY, OCT. 6, 1937 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Five

Business Club Votes On New Members And Adopts Rules
Business Men to Be Asked to Meetings; Williams Elected Adviser

By-laws for the newly organized Kommerce Klub were approved by its members at the second meeting of the group, held Wednesday, October 6, at 7 P.M., in the parlor of Watts dormitory. Elmore Holt, Springs Pharr, and Jerry Harris, who had been appointed as the rules committee, drew up the new laws and presented them to the club. Only a few minor alterations were made before the group gave its approval.

Several members of the group mentioned the names of prominent business men whom they suggested the club should invite to Davidson for the next meeting. It was decided that this should be done and continued as a regular policy. The new organization then elected as honorary members Dr. Archibald Currie, Dr. C. K. Brown, Prof. J. P. Williams, and Prof. J. S. O’Connor. Prof. Williams was named faculty adviser.

Library Buys Seventeen of Best Sellers
Fiction and Non-Fiction Nearly Equally Divided

Of those books listed by the New York Herald Tribune survey as the current best-sellers for the week ending September 4, the library now has eight of the fiction class and nine of the non-fiction class. While most of the recent publications, such as “Gone with the Wind,” have been available for some time, a large percentage have been purchased since June and are now available at the library. “And So—Victoria,” by Vaughan Wilkins, and “Northwest Passage,” by Kenneth Roberts, far outstrip the first choice of non-fiction books, which is Dale Carnegie’s new-famed opus, “How to Win Friends and Influence People,” now available to students.

Other recent additions to the fine selection of current literature are “American Dream,” by Michael Foster; “The Wind from the Mountain,” by Trygve Gulbranssen; “Drums Along the Mohawk,” by Walter D. Edmonds; “The Years,” by the distinguished Englishwoman Virginia Woolf; and “Of Mice and Men,” by John Steinbeck. Of the non-fiction books, the library now has the following: “Orchids on Your Budget,” by Marjorie Hillis; “An American Doctor’s Odyssey,” by Victor Heiser; “Present Indicative,” by Noel Coward; “The Nile,” by Emil Ludwig; “Return to Religion,” by Henry C. Link; “The Flowering of New England,” by Van Wyck Brooks; and “Life with Father,” by Clarence Day. All the books have been carefully selected and are strongly recommended to those who have time for recreational reading.

For the first time in history, Washington will have the opportunity to witness big college pro football. The Capital is excited over football, and former stars from all over the country are working out daily with the Redskins, who made their debut recently.

DON’T GO TO CHARLOTTE — TRY THE — SOUTHERN 5 & 10c Store ANYTHING AND EVERYTHING

We Have the Crosley XERVAC Come Down and See It DAVIDSON BARBER SHOP

Captain J. B. Webb, ’27, Ties For Highest Honors At National Rifle Meet
Capt. Webb and Lieut. Frazier Parker Make Score 289 Out of 300 at Camp Perry Matches

Among the alumni of Davidson College who were in the news this summer was Capt. J. B. Webb (Reserve) of Clearwater, Fla., a member of the class of ’27, who took second place in the National Individual Rifle Match held at Camp Perry, Ohio. Lieut. Frazer Parker, U.S. Marine Corps, won first place Monday. Out of a field of 1,932 entries, Webb tied Lieut. Frazer with an outstanding score of 289 out of a possible 300, but due to the fact that he made a lower score at 1,000 yards, or a lesser number of center bull's eyes at that range, Webb had to take second place. In this match of the best shots in the country, competition was so keen that the first fifty marksmen were separated by only five points.

While at Davidson, Captain Webb was captain of the rifle team for two years and winner of the R.O.T.C. marksmanship medal. He visited the college on his trip back to Clearwater from Camp Perry.

Physics Research Job
Kenyon Mills’ Parker Leaves Davidson to Study Separation of Cotton

Mr. Frazier Parker, who recently resigned his position as assistant professor of physics, to accept a research job with the Kenyon Mills, has left Davidson. Mr. Parker, a graduate of the University of North Carolina, has been at Davidson for two years as the assistant to Dr. J. M. Douglas, head of the physics department. He will work with Dr. Alpine, a distinguished research physicist and head of the research department for the Kenyon Mills. Little is known of the exact character of Mr. Parker's work, but it is understood that he will focus on the separation of various types of cotton. The Kenyon Mills have long been pioneers in the field of physics research, and they are the first large mills in the South to conduct their own research department. This type of work holds promise of developing into an important field, and Mr. Parker’s experience in this field will be invaluable.

Mr. Kuhn, who has been working with the Davidson College Physics Department, will continue his research work. Dr. J. M. Douglas said that, as yet, no definite announcement could be made as to Mr. Parker's successor on the faculty, but one would be made in the near future.

All Varsity Letters Now To Be One Size

The “D” Club has decided to change the size of the letter that is given to varsity members of the several athletic teams. This year all of the letters will be the same size as those which have been given to members of the football team. This means that all of the letters will be eight-inch block letters. The minor sports will have, as usual, a small letter inside of the block which stands for the initial of the sport, that is “G” for golf; “C” for cross country, “T” for tennis, and “W” for wrestling. Leonard Fort, president of the club, says that the move is liked by all.

HI-Y CLUB HOLDS INITIATION; BOGGS SPEAKER

The Davidson Hi-Y Club has just completed its annual tapping and initiation of new members. Last Thursday morning at the high school, they conducted their tapping ceremony with Bill Wood, president of the club for this year, presiding. The main speaker was Wade Boggs, who made a very inspiring address to the student body. Then followed the tapping, which is very similar to our ODK tapping in college. Also present on the platform and appearing on the program were: Lex Kluttz, C. A. Gacnal, and Fieopnal Eleevdlotadon, Boys’ Work Secretary.

Tea Given By Quadranglers

The old faculty entertained for the new faculty in the Quadranglers Club on Tuesday, September 28, from four until five-thirty in the afternoon. The guests at this tea were Major and Mrs. C. S. Steele, Prof. and Mrs. J. A. Ward, Dr. and Mrs. R. deV. Williamson, Prof. J. S. O’Connor, Dr. W. E. Hemphill, and Dr. T. S. Logan. The affair was very informal; coffee, tea, and cakes were served.In Quadranglers Club, which is a social organization of the faculty, Prof. A. N. Mebane is president of the club, Dr. A. V. Goldiere is vice president and chairman of the program committee, and Dr. W. B. Cumming serves as secretary. The present members of the club are—Officers: Dill Wood, president; Thomas Withers, first vice-president; Robert Church, second vice-president; Jimmy Fulcher, secretary; Marion Cole, treasurer. Others are: Ed Erwin and Price Gwynn.

The formal induction ceremony was held Monday night, and true to the purpose of Hi-Y was along religious lines. Locke White was appointed sponsor of the club by Marion Bryant, and made a short talk to the club about its work for the coming year.

EXPERT WORKMANSHIP
HIGHEST QUALITY
HALF SOLES HEELS
BUFF SHOE SHOP
O. C. Buff, Prop.

WHEN IN MOORESVILLE
—SHOP AT—
KENNERLY’S GROCERY STORE
HIGH QUALITY LOW PRICES

WHEN IN CHARLOTTE AFTER GAME OR DANCE
STOP AT
LITTLE PEP SANDWICH SHOP
115 West Fourth Street
OR
DELMONICO GRILL
301 West Trade Street
In Both Places You Find Good Food and Quick Service
—AIR CONDITIONED YEAR ROUND—

HOLT ROUSES ’CATS
Davidson’s Drum Majors Head Cheerleader Elmore Holt will keep the stands fighting for the teams during the 1937-38 season. In the above picture he is seen pepping up Davidson spirit as he directs the spectators in a Wildcat yell—(Photo by ‘Dux’).

Every Student Is Cordially Invited
CITY CAFE & DINING ROOM
“Where Friends Meet to Eat”
Spenser Bros.
Mooresville, N. C.

“Trucking” Exhibit at Band’s ‘Apple’ Review
College Musicians in Apple Formation Accompany Dancers Between Halves

Harrison Calls For Candidates
In Wrestling
Jerry Harris Will Manage Team For Season

Dates Matmen
Davidson wrestling coach, announced Monday that he will call for varsity wrestling candidates soon after Thanksgiving, when the intramural bouts will be completed. Prospects for the team this season are looking fair, Harrison said. Three lettermen, H. H. McIntyre, and Craver and Lawrence, who also saw action last year, will be back grappling for the team, along with several promising freshmen. Forty Matmen will serve as varsity manager for the season.

Frosh Rock New Gym
Enoch and “Lizard” Prophesy Victory for ’Cats; Dr. Foreman Speaks

Philanthropics Revive Old Custom With Winthrop
The Philanthropic Literary Society will hold its first meeting of the year on Tuesday night, October 12, at 7 o’clock in the hall. All prospective members are to submit their names for application for membership at that time. During the summer months, the hall was completely renovated. The hall has been painted and has been equipped with new chairs and draperies. Those desiring to become members may get in touch with a present member or be present at the meeting. The roll will be limited to seventy and no bid is necessary for membership.

At the meeting next Tuesday, organization for the coming year will be set up. The design for the society keys will be passed upon. Membership committees and other groups will be appointed.

(Continued on Page 6)

Vicks Cough Drop
One Thing That It Takes To Bring You Higher Grades
—Soda —Stationery —Candy
“WHERE EVERYONE'S YOUR FRIEND”
WHITE DRUG STORE
DAVIDSON, N. C.
Magazines — Toiletries

Crew Neck “Letter” Long Sleeve Sweaters
All Wool $2.95 EACH
National Shirt Shops
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

The Revolutionary Pen with Television Ink Supply is now in a new and Superlative Model—Parker’s Speedline Vacumatic! Now—to help put your Learning on a higher plane than ever, Parker presents the new Speedline Vacumatic. A conquest over the pen that runs dry in class, it continues to write 3 or 4 times longer on one filling. A wholly exclusive year-round ink supply—HOLDS 102% MORE INK. The patented Diaphragm Filler is different from all earlier types. No rubber ink sac to age. Good pen counters are now showing this pedigreed Beauty. Go and see it. The Parker Pen Co., Janesville, Wis. Makers of Quink, the quick-cleaning ink.

VACUMATIC
GUARANTEED MECHANICALLY PERFECT
Pens, $5, $7.50, $8.75, $10. Pencils to match: $2.50, $3.50, $3.75, $5.