Page Eight THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, MARCH 17, 1937

Davidson Program Again Broadcast Over Country
College Presentation Postponed Because of Address Of President

GWYNN INTERVIEWED
Pi Kappa Alpha “Dream Girl” Sung By Quartet

Davidson College returned to the ether waves last night with a resumption of the evening broadcast over Charlotte's radio station
WBT. The program, which originates on the campus in Chambers auditorium, was interrupted and gladly postponed for a week in
order to make possible the broadcast of an address by President Roosevelt over the Columbia Broadcasting System and the Charlotte
station. Last night officials combined the program scheduled for March 9, when the broadcast was not made, and features originally
planned for last night. Several numbers from each program were played, although there was as usual only one interview. Due
to the rather crowded half-hour, the regular news brief by A. Tyler Port was not presented.

Dr. Price H. Gwynn, Jr., of the Department of Education, was interviewed by Conrad Fredrick Smith, alumni secretary, on the
new system of Freshman orientation instituted at Davidson last fall and which was supervised by Dr. Gwynn. The second of
the fraternity series of songs was sung by the quartet, Pi Kappa Alpha’s “Dream Girl,” being the song of the
week. Music Director Pfohl has secured the song of each fraternity on the hill and they will be sung one
each week. The remainder of the program follows: “O Davidson!” “College Ties;” March, “Under the Double Eagle”—Wagner; “The Triumph of
Alexander Overture”—Richards; piano solo by Mrs. Louise Nelson Pfohl, “Hungarian Fantasy”—Liszt; “The Glow Worm”—Lincke; hymn, “My Jesus, As Thou Wilt.”

SWEEPING THE CAMPUS
(Continued from page 2)

Must have been the Gypsy in Walt Dickson, Butch Abernethy, and Jack Lafferty. Bob McClelland found a girl’s school near
Boone named Valle Crucis and has pictorial evidence to prove it. Wilbur Edwards thinking old friends are the best friends
for this weekend. Coot Gladden, Harry Kuykendall, Jim Reinhardt, Busthead Moseley, Louis Hipp, Dick Vowles, and Ken Knorr to N.
C. C. W. hop and Coot in figure in spite of brown shoe strings. And if everything went as scheduled
Lem Kornegay snaked on Pete Marchant at Converse Tuesday night. Joe Gamble is wrestling motorcycles. Willard Dixon and Rex Lauck
bulls of the ball at Randolph Macon with Music by Mellen and they say it is a Good Thing. And
if you haven't heard, Junior Speakings this weekend with Music by Mellen. Swingcopation from solid senders for them as likes
that sort of stuff, smooth, flowing rhythm for them as likes that sort of stuff. Masks and serpentine for everybody
and the girls are described as elegant. It’s going to be fun.

JUNIOR DANCE
(Continued from Page 6)

Columbia, S. C.; Sam Cothran, Phi Delta Theta, with Elizabeth Lee of Charlotte; Bill Kiesewetter, Phi Gamma Delta, with Jane
Wiley of Charlotte; Bill Nicholson, Sigma Alpha Epsilon, with Jennie Ann Efird of Charlotte; Gilbert Palmer, Kappa Alpha, with Bettie
Blitch of Charleston, S. C.; Jim Wilson, Pi Kappa Phi, with Merrill Fetner of Charlotte; John Ranson, Beta Theta Pi,
with Anne Pease of Charlotte; Henry Harkey with Nancy Philips of Charlotte; and Tip Harrison with Esther Hambley of Salisbury.
Set tickets will remain on sale until Friday at 6 o’clock, and may be secured from any member of the
Junior committee.

COLLEGE BAND
(Continued from Page 7)

rak’s “Humoreske” were next heard. The final number was the pompous “Overture from ‘Triumph of Alexander,’” by Richards. Encores played
were Vail’s “London Suite,” which made such a hit last fall at the football games, and Hall’s “New Colonial March,”
which was conducted by Mr. R. W. House of Monroe. The program ended with the playing of “O Davidson!”

Officials To Visit Alumni Groups

Professor Archibald Currie announced last Monday that he and Fred Smith, alumni secretary of the college, were planning to take
a trip during spring holidays. Their purpose is to visit several alumni chapters. Monday night, March 29, they are going
to be in Richmond at an alumni meeting there, going on to New York Tuesday night. Professor Currie is going
as a representative of the college, and Fred Smith in line of his duties. Professor Currie plans to start about
Saturday night, spending Sunday with his brother in Richmond. He is planning to spend a day in Washington on his
way back. Mr. F. L. Jackson, college treasurer, and Fred Smith went to Winston-Salem last Saturday to attend an alumni
chapter meeting there. Both made addresses before the meeting.

SMOKE, YELLS, BOOS
(Continued from Page 3)

have to move before the picture is over. Then the picture or feature really gets under way. The hero of
the picture is the one who gets the bad breaks. He is booed and if he were in person he’d
probably quit the show business and settle down. The villain of the picture is the one who benefits. He is
greeted with applause by the students, for they all are a blood-thirsty crew. Emotional scenes are “fresh meat” to the
Davidson students. They are gluttons for these scenes. They ask the operator to hold the machine and let the scene
stay for a bit, but, alas! no results. Go to the show and watch the Davidson students put on a
show, during the show, in the show.

FRAMPTON TO PLAY FINALS WITH CLOYD
Tenney and Lindsey Fall in Ping-Pong Semi-Finals

The Table Tennis Tournament of 1936-37 has now advanced to the final match. Smashing their way to victory over five
opponents each, H. Frampton and E. L. Cloyd have slowly but surely crept up the list of some seventy aspirants
to this coveted championship. Both men have risen from first match to the final with comparative ease, neither having yet
received a single defeat. Cloyd has defeated Hemphill, Hashagen, Armstrong, Spencer, and Lindsey in his five pairings. His last match
was with Lindsey in the semi-finals and he was able to overcome his opponent to the tune of 2-0. Frampton
has had jousts with Shabel, Bradburn, K. McLean, and Tenney, each time emerging the victor. Tenney went down before Frampton’s
drives in the semi-finals. In an interview Frampton refused to make any statement concerning the outcome of the final game
but he did say that, weather permitting, the match would be played off in the Davidson Y. M. C. A.
on Tuesday. Cloyd could not be reached for an interview.

Young Politicians In Washington

Washington, mecca of lobbyists, experienced a new type of lobby recently. The lobby of young people who came here to
urge passage of the American Youth Act contrasted strangely with the more experienced and skillful wielders of pressure. The young
group made up in sincerity and enthusiasm, however, what it lacked in wire-pulling skill. To one whohas often watched the
machinations of shrewd and calculating lobbyists backed by vast expense accounts, it is refreshing to see clear-eyed, eager college men
and women go after an objective they want.

POLITICAL THE! § VOTE FOR ME
(Photo by Wally Scherer)

Campaign Manager Frank Pharr is seen here distributing the 2 for 5¢ brand to John Newton Smith, Julian Helms, Bill
Manson, Horace McCall, Graham McFayden, and John Paul Jones. Campaign Manager Pharr stated: “Bring all your babies around if you
want ‘em kissed. We are all for one and one for all.”

Rags, Old Newspapers

“Rags, rags, old newspapers.” Girls at N. J. College for Women don't actually go around from house to house shouting
for old rubbish, but they do save it. In order to boost their gym fund, they sell all rags and
newspapers that would otherwise collect nothing but dust. A while ago they put their gym fund back on the “silver-paper”
standard by collecting tin foil from candy bars, gum, and other articles.

“RED” SHELBY CHOSEN
(Continued from Page 7)

supplied in sufficient quantities to all colleges and universities that have R. O. T. C. units by the War Department.
The three “shots” take two weeks to be given and so many juniors have started them in order to be
finished before spring vacation starts. Mrs. A. B. Robson has been giving the injections.

MILITARY UNIT AIDS
(Continued from Page 3)

his country, by firing a rifle salute of three volleys. In the quiet of the cemetery, the last and most
unforgettable expression of esteem was sounded clear and loud, when Taps was blown by Rex Beach. The body was then
lowered to its resting place.

FOUR HUNDRED
(Continued from Page 7)

In the two upper classes, there is an entirely different situation. There are only 41 juniors and 38 seniors taking
the advanced courses in R. O. T. C. Stiff qualifications are in force, and agreements are made with the War
Department in Washington before the student is able to take the advanced course. This is the factor that makes the
situation in the first and second years become vice versa in the third and fourth. There is a total of
365 students in Davidson College taking military science and tactics.

LAFFERTY SWEPT INTO
(Continued from Page 1)

the following order, as provided by the Constitution and announced by Wilbur Edwards, Y. M. C. A. president, Editor The
Davidsonian, President Athletic Association, and other officers of these groups. Then come the class officers, Freshman Advisor, Student Council, Annual
election, Magazine, Cheerleader, Publications Board, and Y. M. C. A. Board of Control.

GIRLS, HERE IS “THE” ONE

The fact that Alexander Franklin Wojciechowicz, Fordham’s brilliant center, was such an insignificant high school freshman that his coach refused
him a uniform is only one odd item about him. Five feet eleven, and 192 pounds, he plays a bruising
game and is hailed by some critics as the greatest center in Fordham’s history. One of Wojciechowicz’s hobbies is crocheting.
When at home he often helps his mother make rag rugs. He likes to cook, too. But if you think
that his crocheting and cooking make him soft, just talk to a few of the centers he has faced.

FRESHMAN BALL PLAYERS
(Continued from Page 5)

many boys at the plate. “This fault,” he said, “is that they do not follow through when they swing. Any
man who has the correct swing, and follows through in his swing can learn to hit,” he stated. After batting
practice, the infielders were put through a short and snappy drill on ground balls. Several of the boys showed their
ability by handling the ball with ease. The outfield aspirants were run hither and yon, trying to snag the long
drives from the bat of the coach. Several of the men out show considerable promise, although it is too early
to make any predictions, as yet. The following men are candidates for the team: Bill Bolling, Dan Cagle, Toni Casali,
Jim Curry, Jim Dunford, Punk Fitzgerald, Bud Gilmore, Tom Hafnsberger, Walter Harper, Benny Harrison, Fred Hashagen, Karl Hudson, Lock Hunter,
Gray Hunter, John Jones, Bob Kellog, Bill King, Dave McClean, Graham McFayden, Bob Phipps, Buck Powell, Marvin Sowers, Jim Thomas,
Hugh Verner, and Dick Winters. The freshman baseball schedule has not as yet been announced, but it will probably include
several games with leading junior college teams of the state.

Marriage or Career?

Senior women students at Pennsylvania State College have agreed that marriage and a career cannot be combined successfully. An overwhelming
majority of the 190 girls that took part in the poll declared that a career after marriage is not fair
to the husband nor to the single girls who are out of work.

A. L. CURRIE TALKS
(Continued from Page 1)

Keep Thy Heart

“Out of the heart flows forth the issues of life.” “The heart is the reservoir of a man’s faith—of his
faith and hope and love.” With these statements Mr. Currie urged the students today in chapel to follow the example
of Christ and keep their hearts in the face of difficulties and unless they did they were beaten from the
start. Quoting the familiar passage, “Let not your heart be troubled,” Rev. Currie impressed the conviction that this was not
only a passage for the comfort of those in sorrow but Christ’s command to meet all phases of life courageously.
Three more services remain to be held, one tonight and two tomorrow. After concluding this series, Mr. Currie will remain
on the campus until Sunday when he will lead the vesper service. “Buck” Currie is a Davidson graduate, class of
'21, and a native North Carolinian.

STUDENTS GIVE OPINION
(Continued from Page 1)

be beneficial and it might keep students on the campus who go to Charlotte or Greensboro to get this form
of recreation.” Dunlap Covington: “I don’t feel that it would fit in with other things at Davidson. But personally I
think it would be beneficial to the student by giving him something to occupy his time.” “A college man should
be allowed to exercise his personal inclinations; except it trespass upon the rights of others.”—Al Cade.

Copyright 1937, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.

...a full measure of everything you want in a cigarette. At every stage... from tobacco farm to shipping room... Chesterfield’s
job is to give you the refreshing mildness and delightful flavor that makes smoking a great pleasure. Experienced buyers see
that Chesterfield tobaccos are MILD and RIPE... careful manufacturers see that they are blended to the exact Chesterfield formula. And
they see that the cigarettes are made right... round, firm, just right to smoke.

...for the full measure of the good things you want in a cigarette, we invite you to enjoy Chesterfields.
