Page Two WEDNESDAY, MARCH 17, 1937 THE DAVIDSONIAN The Davidsonian Founded By the Class of 1915 1936 Member 1937 Associated
Collegiate Press Distributors of Collegiate Digest Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson” Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY Charlotte, North
Carolina SUBSCRIPTION RATES Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative 420 MADISON Ave. NEW YORK, N.Y. CHICAGO - BOSTON - SAN FRANCISCO LOS ANGELES - PORTLAND -
SEATTLE Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879.
JIM MORTON Editor R. H. ROBINSON Business Manager M. Owen Cooke Managing Editor Sam Cothran Managing Editor Euclid Fant Managing
Editor Hector McGeachy Managing Editor Dick Vowles Managing Editor Yates Faison Sports Editor Harry Kuykendall Associate Editor Howell Overton Associate
Editor John Winn Associate Editor Sam Ryburn Art Editor Fitz Dade Copy Reader BUSINESS STAFF Wares Lowrance Circulation Manager Joseph
Chandler Circulation Manager R. E. McAulay Collection Manager J. C. McLean Advertising Manager W. E. Mcllwaine Business Manager We must
not make a scarecrow of the law, Setting it up to fear the birds of prey, And let it keep
one shape, till custom make it Their perch and not their terror,—Shakespeare. GROWING PAINS... Of particular interest to people in
this part of the country are the growing signs of industrial unrest throughout the nation. The Carolinas are the looms
of the South, and their mill owners will not relish such manifestations as the current auto strikes. Apparently organized labor,
like the camel of the fable, now wants the whole tent. It is no longer a question of reasonable hours
and fair wages, it is a matter of monopolies. Will the companies recognize CIO as the only bargaining agency? Such
attitude is unfair, un-American. There are many workmen who need the work, who for personal reasons can not or do
not join a union. To deny these men the right of employment violates one of the fundamental principles upon which
our government is based—it is little short of anarchistic. One ray of hope appears. Strikes usually accompany prosperity. Men who
are not sure of their next meal will hardly risk a job for a mere matter of principles. Seems like
we've turned that corner at last! * * * * * GOLDEN GOOSE... We wish to protest the action of
a certain well-known Charlotte restaurant in installing a pay-telephone for its customers. For years this restaurant has been Davidson headquarters
in the Queen City. The phone was the chief of many courtesies which made students feel at home there. Especially
during week-ends a large proportion of the beanery's customers have been college men. Yet by this one action the proprietor
endangers his college trade. Don’t kill your golden goose, Nick! CHARLOTTE OBSERVER... The staff of The Davidsonian sincerely appreciates the
help that The Charlotte Observer has rendered by permitting our using their cuts, mats, and photographs. The pictures of the
sponsors for Junior Speaking and the football action shots were loaned to us by The Observer. They would have cost
us a considerable sum if we had them made up. Thanks! * * * * * ELECTIONS... The annual spring
elections are here again. And we are glad to see that politics is nil and no antagonistic groups are forming.
Davidson is free from politics and we desire to see that it remains free from the hoity-toity of politics. SPRING
SERVICES... The Rev. Mr. Currie, a Davidson graduate, is conducting the Spring Services for this year, and we predict a
most successful series. One thing is essential to make them a success and that is that we attend in the
right attitude to receive his messages. RIGHT THINKING... “I guess college boys are all right. Never went to college though.
Maybe that’s why I still have a high opinion of college men.” Saucy words from swingy Ina Ray Hutton, baton-wielder
of the Melodears. Wake Up... We recently came across an article entitled, “Is Radicalism Rampant on the American Campus?” In
“Collegiate Digest,” too, there was a picture of students ridiculing “red hunts.” The country seems to be under the general
impression that our schools are hotbeds of Communism; and students all seem to think that the other fellow’s school is
shot through with Bolshevism. The shame of it all is that there is not more radicalism on our campuses today.
Students show an extreme disinclination for getting down to the facts of things, and an even more apathetic attitude exists
towards affairs of national and world moment. Although we can always work up a little enthusiasm when some Yankee colleague
yells “Pooey to Hoey!” at us, when it comes to actually taking an interest in national affairs, we fall pretty
flat. An echo of student opinion is the fact that only one editorial has appeared in these columns all year
on the subject of peace (and that was taken from another publication), yet the issue of peace and war is
one of the most acute facing the world today. Some of us are of voting age, others very soon will
be. It is only a matter of time before the burden of this nation’s policies will rest upon our shoulders.
Yet we do absolutely nothing to stimulate thinking upon such affairs. To take a perfectly concrete and live issue, consider
the issue of pacifism. Most of us have not given it a thought. Yet there are organizations all over the
country today attempting to blot out this scourge which threatens to wipe out the species. We can all help in
the good work by helping these organizations. A great deal of legislation is going through Congress these days which has
a definite bearing on world peace and American neutrality. Any of us could take five minutes off a week to
find out what the legislative measures are, and another five minutes to write our Congressmen and Senators what we think
of the measures. The most discouraging aspect of the whole matter is that, aside from a lack of practical attention
to such problems, we do not even discuss them intelligently. We have not heard one voluntary discussion on world peace
in the last two years. And when it is discussed, the ignorance on what is going on about us is
appallingly displayed. Which is more important, to learn what is being done to determine the authorship of Shakespeare’s works, or
what is being done to promote international goodwill? Campus Comments Each year the Y. M. C. A. carefully selects two
ministers to speak to the Student Body. They are not men whose names were pulled out of the hat but
specially consecrated men who have been suggested by members of the Student Body and were recommended highly by the other
ministers. Yet, five or ten per cent of the Student Body cuts during the special chapel services and perhaps a
fourth of the students come to the evening meetings. Does the Student Body feel that it is good enough as
it is and that there is no need to change itself, both as a group and as individuals? Although the
public services each day are excellent it is usually the private conferences that make the lasting impressions. As I understand
it, the Rev. Mr. Currie will remain here through Friday and Saturday, especially to talk with anyone about anything. These
conferences are for us. Mr. Currie is a young man, and while here at Davidson he was the leader in
Student Government, Athletics, and Fraternity life. Here is a man who has griped, criticized, and reluctantly praised as only a
Davidson student knows how; but now he has had more than a student’s experience and he can advise us as
could no outsider. There is not one of us who has no doubts whatever, but we can clear up some
of our uncertainty if we talk with someone who has had more experience than we. I am sure that no
intelligent Davidson student will say that he got nothing out of the Spring Services. —JOHN ABERNETHY. P. S—I request Bob
Stewart, member of the Varsity Debating Team, to write the next Campus Comments. Puzzled students of an administrative law class
at the University of Minnesota wondered for a while why their lecturer, Prof. Jennings, usually a cool lecturer, appeared flustered.
“Early this morning,” he announced, “I became a father. I’m surprised I showed up for class at all.” CAMPUS CAMERA
MAD WAS ORIGINATED BY MCGILL UNIVERSITY STUDENTS IN 1879! JEFF KIRKPATRICK UNIVERSITY OF KENTUCKY STUDENT, HITCH-HIKED 24,960 MILES TO AND
FROM SCHOOL IN THE PAST 4 YEARS! IN 1936 20,000,000 SPECTATORS PAID $30,000,000 TO SEE 700 COLLEGE TEAMS IN ACTION!
Copyright by Associated Collegiate Press—Madison, Wis. SWEEPING THE CAMPUS By AL CADE Davidson politics are more insipid and uninteresting than
those at probably any other similar institution. Simon pure is an admirable quality but there was a Simon called simple.
A few open and recognized combines or political parties would add zest and interest to an otherwise zestless situation. Mrs.
Grundy would not approve of sub rosa agreements and the double X, and justly, but we don’t see why she
should frown upon open and above-board combines and lineups. We don't want the underhand dirty work encountered in so many
collegiate elections, but we think a more interesting set-up could be organized without including the objectionable features. The situation as
it now exists seems rather primary and elemental, but even as it is each fraternity is a combine within itself.
And the independents are requested not to form any alliance with anyone, not even among themselves. There is more than
one side to almost any situation but nevertheless it is a weary, weary world. More Triviana: Jack Lee was like
poor Robinson Crusoe, who wanted to woo so. Red Wilkerson has taken up skating but is it for the exercise?
When hiking Roger Melton and Jim Gailey find that all roads lead to Cornelius. And Joe Kellam’s seniority didn’t keep
him from being stood up by a Queens Frosh. She was a good girl as girls go, but as girls
go she went. And—Biscoe Howell's uninvited audience after a shower of oranges. D. V. Dixon's falsetto Mammy monologues. Stew Barnes,
Howard Covington, Jelly McClelland, Jack Branch, Tom Breeden, Buddy Branton, J. C. Crowell, and Lib Gammon joining the horsey set
but Jack needed a barrel. Who got a letter addressed to: A. Puge Powerhouse Purple Panther Pansy Petunia? Bill is
quick but he may be a Benedict for he knows a girl who lives on a hill and, like Barkis,
she’s willing. Frank HarrisonHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Scavenging flowers for a car full of delovelies. Salty Peters and Johnny Crabb unwilling nurse-maids. And Mooresville entertained Harkey, Lutz,
Springs Pharr, Tenney, Bill Ross, Karl Hudson, Watkins and Sky Cline found the traffic heavy and how was Lutz to
know it was smearable but Major Clark would rather lead a band. And Concord called Bill Boyd, Ray Tenney, Locke
Hunter, Brent Greene, Jack Lee and Colonel Liipfert found a date for Junior Speakings and husbands are anathema to Bill
Ross but Bill McLean would rather intermission. (Continued on Page 8)

STOLEN THUNDER
By DAYMOND TURNER

YOU TELL ’EM ... You can tell a Junior by his high and mighty air; You can tell a freshman
by his wide and vacant stare; You can tell a Senior by his caps and gowns and such; You can
tell a Sophomore, but you can’t tell him much.

APROPOS OF NOTHING... Definition of nothing: A bladeless knife without a handle ... An Eskimo was sitting on a cake
of ice telling a story. When he finished, he got up and said: “My tale is told.” ... It was
a balmy evening at the state insane asylum... Like the chap remarked when his alarm failed to go off at
eight: “You dumb cluck.”

REBUKE ... Whenever we hear of someone trying to run his neighbor's business we remember the elderly lady who one
day accosted a well-known movie actress. The star was out walking with her pet, a chow dog. The reformer sailed
up to her and snapped: “Young lady, it would be MORE to your credit if you had a baby over
your arm.” “But, I’m not married!” protested the dog fancier.

DIFFERENT... Little Miss Muffet sat on a tuffet Painting her mug away. Along came a man and took her hand.
Now there's the deuce to play.

THOUGHT... A woman's best asset is a man’s imagination... Some people cause happiness ‘wherever’ they go; some people cause happiness
“whenever” they go... Her mind is like a railroad timetable—subject to change without notice.

REGRET... Before I heard the doctors tell The dangers of a kiss, I had considered kissing you The nearest thing
to bliss; But now I know biology, I sit and sigh and moan Six million mad bacteria— And I thought
we were alone!

SHEEPISH ... Little Bo Peep has lost two sheep And don’t want to find them. Leave them alone and they'll
come home Bringing a lamb behind them.

'ZAT SO?... A soft answer makes no impression on a bonehead... When the meek inherit the earth, according to our
present administration, they'll have to give 26 percent of it back as inheritance tax... It’s funny how charity not only
begins at home but hates to leave the house.

EVIDENCE... Mary, Mary, quite contrary, Your kisses are the go, But why paint your lips so red? Don’t you know
‘twill show?

DESCRIPTION ... Men are like corks. Some will pop the question. Others have to be drawn out... Then there was
a girl so dumb that she thought Vat 69 was the Pope’s telephone number... With as much future as a
moth in a nudist’s wardrobe.

Couple Visits New Orleans
Dr. and Mrs. J. W. MacConnell Return From Stay in New Orleans

Dr. and Mrs. J. W. MacConnell have returned from a week’s stay in New Orleans, where Dr. MacConnell attended the
post-graduate medical assembly. This meeting brought together about five hundred of the leading medical and surgical men of the U.
S. Meetings were held morning, afternoon, and night and at luncheon special groups assembled for round-table discussions. Highlights of the
assembly were papers on Skin Cancer by Dr. Cannon of New York who cautioned older people against too much sun
exposure and also advised older women to be careful about excessive beauty parlor treatments which sometimes aggravated skin cancers. Dr.
Dwyer of Washington, D. C., U. S. Public Health Service, spoke on Typhus Fever which is transmitted by the bite
of a rat flea, and on Rocky Mountain Spotted Fever which is due to the bite of a wood tick.
In the laboratories, they had ticks sealed in jars and the ticks had gone without food for seven years and
were still capable of biting a person and giving them fever. Dr. MacConnell conferred with some of the Davidson Alumni,
who were at Tulane Medical School and reported that they were doing well in their work. Seven million dollars is
being spent on improvements to the Charity Hospital in New Orleans. It is the second largest hospital in the U.
S.

OPEN FORUM

NUTSHELL

With elections in the air, and with Junior Speaking only a few days off, the Junior Class is about to
split its collective face, from ear to ear. The class motto has become “Keep Smiling,” and woe to him who
relaxes. Boy, will we be grouches after the holidays! Thing that puzzles us about the presidential election, though, is, who
will the boys (if any) from Maine and Vermont cast their ballots for? There’s not an avowed Republican in the
race.

The band gave a concert in the Auditorium the other night that was a pip. When they go to town
on the “London Suite” (“London Bridge” to you and me), Benny Goodman isn’t even in it. Attendance at the concert,
though, just brought out the truth of that old saying, “A band is not without honor, save in its own
school.” People all over the South and East have paid a dollar per, and will pay it, to hear the
Davidson College Concert Band, yet a free concert on the campus hardly drew a handful.

The Colonial Riding Academy, recently opened about four miles beyond Huntersville, has been drawing increasing numbers of Davidson men lately.
Looks like the mantelpiece is coming back. From what we hear, the Colonial’s horses haven’t heard that hazing is old-fashioned.
They still lay it on, in the old familiar spot. You ought to go over there and have a go
at it, though; it’s good for your constitution. And with national affairs in the state they’re in now, you'd better
take care of your constitution while you've still got it!

The Red and Black Masquers (who, incidentally, claim that the Junior Class is stealing their stuff with Friday night’s masked
ball) are casting about for a new play for their spring opus. They have shied off from “Winterset” because it
requires sets and actors. Of course, they might get the sets, BUT ... Our suggestion is that they follow up
their success with “A Midsummer Night’s Dream” by presenting more Shakespeare. Say “A Comedy of Errors.” They wouldn’t even have
to try!

Speaking of Shakespeare, the Bard of Avon had some little-suspected powers. He might even be described as a hog-caller in
reverse. Here’s what I mean: A very old and very close friend of mine, who grew up with O. Henry
in Greensboro, once told me that when the two of them were boys, my friend was delegated to spend his
nights in his father’s watermelon patch during the summer, to keep prowlers away. O. Henry, young also, was accustomed to
stay there with him. One night William Sidney Porter, as O. Henry was known then, arrived late, and left the
gate open behind him. A pig walked in, and made straight for where the melons were the largest. My friend
insisted that Porter must remove the beast, as he had let him in. The author-to-be, never over-energetic, decided that a
less tiring and more original method than merely chasing the pig must be arrived on. Accordingly, he approached the animal,
and began to recite Shakespeare at him. Writer and rooter viewed each other for some minutes, and then the recitation
began to sink through into the porker’s head. He gave one snort; Porter raised his voice — and the pig
got up and swiftly ran away! He even (here my friend smiled, and I took the finis with a grain
of salt) shut the gate behind him.

By the way, The Charlotte Observer predicts a cool but dry weekend for Junior Speaking. Regardless of that, you'll be
all wet if you don’t go. However, if the weather is in its usual form, whatever Mellen plays will sound
like rippling rhythm. But water we care if it rains?
