WEDNESDAY, OCT. 27, 1937. THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Seven Musical Vesper Program to Be Presented Sunday, College Glee Club and Symphony
Orchestra to Render Selections The annual Musical Vesper service sponsored by the Y. M. C. A., will be held this
Sunday, Oct. 31. The service will be led by Wade Boggs, Y. M. C. A. secretary. The musical part of
the service will be provided by the College Glee Club and Little Symphony Orchestra, the former under the direction of
Prof. Thane McDonald and the orchestra under Prof. James C. Pfohl. This will be the first public appearance of both
musical organizations this year. To appear with the orchestra will be a solo violinist of Statesville, Mr. James Webber. Mr.
Webber is an accomplished violinist, who has been concert maestro of the Charlotte Symphony Orchestra and has for the past
two summers received scholarships to the Cincinnati Conservatory of Music. The service will open with the Prelude by either Professor
Pfohl or Professor McDonald and the following musical selections will be given by the Glee Club and Orchestra: Selections by
the Glee Club: Salvation Belongeth to Our God—Tschesnokovy. The Lord’s Prayer—Forsyth-Froft. It Is the Lord’s Own Day—Foster. Selections by the
Orchestra: The celebrated Minuet from “First Symphony”—Valensin. Largo—Handel. The solo by Mr. James Webber is to be selected. C.K. Brown
Ends Talks Speaking on “Truth,” Dr. C. K. Brown of the Economics department brought to a close on October 24
a series of four talks at the college Sunday School. Dr. Brown, who has led the services during the month
of October, told to a group of approximately fifty boys the different ways that people lie. The speaker opened his
lesson by reminding the group that Christ declared the devil to be the father of all liars. Lying is one
of the greatest sins of the Christian religion. However, he said, this does not mean that we must go out
of our way to be rude and insult a person in order to be truthful. There are many ways to
lie without speaking, it was pointed out. Many of us act a lie, trying to impress others or pretending that
we are other than our true selves. At times we make statements consciously that have two meanings; oftentimes, though we
may hope that they will be taken the wrong way, we defend ourselves by saying that we meant a better
meaning. In closing, Dr. Brown gave a good exercise for strengthening one’s character. “Take at least ten minutes of every
day, or right after you go to bed at night,” he said, “and question yourself: ‘Why did I do such
and such a thing today? Why did I say this or that to some person?’” He declared that once we
think along these lines we may stay awake a good deal longer than ten minutes, but it will help to
make us more careful of our actions. Sigma Upsilon Has Paper By Dr. Cumming Novels Discussed by Members Of Society
Sigma Upsilon, the honorary literary fraternity, started its activities for the coming year last week. The first meeting was held
Wednesday night at the Kappa Sigma house. Wade Barrow, president of the society, presided. The program consisted of a paper
by Dr. W. P. Cumming, of the faculty, and a discussion of novels and other material read by members during
the past summer. Dr. Cumming's paper was entitled: “John White, Governor of Roanoke, and John White, the Artist.” It was
an interesting argument supporting the theory that the two men were one and the same. A program of activities was
outlined for the entire first semester. The program is so designed that each member will read a paper sometime during
the semester. One of the main activities to be undertaken this year will be the writing of a novel. Prof.
C. G. Davidson will write the first chapter, with different members taking over the continuation for the subsequent chapters. The
writing of this novel is something which has been neglected in late years by the society and its composition is
expected to bolster greatly the interest of the members in the club as well as the interest of the members
of Sigma Upsilon. A committee was appointed to look over the prospective members for students who seem to have literary
talent. The members are chosen mainly on literary ability and particularly on grades. Bids are usually extended to juniors and
seniors, but some outstanding literary ability are sometimes asked. The meetings are held the first and third Wednesday of each
month, and the next one will be held at the Phi Gamma Delta fraternity house. GWYNN’S CLASS VISITS (Continued from
Page 3) 350 failing last year. The students of this school rate from ten to twenty points higher on the
Stanford Achievement Tests than the national average. The phenomenal success of the progressive system in use in Ellerbe is due
to the fine attitude of the students. This attitude and spirit have undergone an unbelievable change in the last ten
years, since Mr. Richard F. Little took over the principalship of the school. The change of spirit of the pupils
is all the more remarkable when it is noted that considerably more than half of them come from the sandy
farms of the county by school bus, and are not members of the community at all. CONSTITUTION DAY (Continued from
Page 6) The purpose of the national government to focus the attention of the nation upon the Constitution is so
that it will be better understood by the citizenship at large. Congress has appropriated a huge fund which will make
possible the distribution of literature on the subject over the United States. Hon. Sol Blum is the Congressional head of
the campaign. “OH, DAVIDSON---” Jot a line to the fond parents and tell them to tune in on All Davidson
Home Games, broadcasted over WSOC through the courtesy of IVEY’S for the pleasure of those who can’t be there in
person. IVEY'S “One of the South’s Great Stores” Beta Kappa Joint Initiation Is Given Phi Beta Kappa has extended bids
to the above pictured seniors. Dallas Herring, Haywood Hill, Pete McKnight; bottom row, Jim Reinhardt, Watson Street, Dick Vowles, Monroe
Wicker. McCleskey Continues To Announce Sports On Local Airways Not many people would be able to attend school at Davidson
and hold down a job as a radio announcer at the same time, but Joe McCleskey, a member of the
class of ‘41 from Charlotte, N. C., manages to do it. Joe works for Station WSOC in Charlotte, and is
also under contract to General Mills, makers of Wheaties. At present he is doing five minutes of sports commentating each
week on the Davidson College program broadcast from Chambers on Friday night, besides conducting the morning devotions from 9:00 to
9:15 on Sunday mornings. Although he is competent to handle other types of work as well, Joe's pet field is
Sports announcing, and it was in this that his career as an announcer started. Mayor Ben Douglas of Charlotte seems
to be intensely interested, as Joe played American Legion Junior baseball, which the Mayor has broadcasted personally for four years.
Just as a hobby Mayor Douglas began to broadcast these games personally, and one day last July he asked Joe
to help him. Joe, who had been interested in the work for a good while, and who had gained a
little experience from work with the public address system at Central High School, jumped at the chance, and soon was
announcing the games himself. Some time after Joe took over the Legion Junior baseball games, General Mills, in order to
advertise their products, made a contract with WSOC to broadcast all baseball games played by Charlotte in the Piedmont League.
They sent Brad Robinson, All American end for Minnesota in 1932, to pick an announcer, and after an audition Joe
got the job. He broadcast the games all summer under contract to General Mills; and plans to do so again
next summer. Some men who really know very little have the knack of appearing very profound. Your Choice ...Of... STYLES
IN THE LATEST GRAIN SHOES: Suedes in Tan and Grey ...also... Plain Oxfords Tan and Black Friendly Shoe Store 137.
S. Tryon St.same time, but Joe! man-| Friday, { made! also | Among the Greeks They are: top row, Cooper
Adams, By Ge srother Kellam went to Winston-Salem and also home to Biscoe | Brothers Gish and Ivey spent the
week-end in Rock Hill. Miss Elizabeth Hendrick was a guest of the chapter Sunday. | Pi Kappa Alpha } “Allan
Parker and Dave Russell } visited Randolph-Macon in Lynchburg, Va., over the week-end. Bub Coltrane, Vernon Youngblood, and Paul Lady
were at home in Concord, while Bob McCellan represented the fraternity at the Carolina-Tulane game. Addison Long and Doug Neill
travelled to Raleigh. The weekly pledge meeting was held Wednesday with several of the boys present to hear the fraternity
song recited.

Kappa Sigma Gene Barnwell and Neal Scott teed during the past week. Pittman and McGeachy Pledge Means Brothers Wyatt, Watkins
Brother Hudson, Ross, and the Barrow brothers spent the week-end in Raleigh. Brother Means visited in Columbia. Brother Means from
N.C. State was a guest of the chapter during the week-end. Miss Hughes was a dinner guest of the chapter
last week.

Beta Theta Pi Brothers Bradburn and Morrow are spending several days in Jacksonville, Florida. They are expected back Wednesday. Brothers
Abbott and Pegram spent last weekend in Greensboro as usual. Brother Birch and Pledge Brother Balsley were in Reidsville over
the weekend. Brother Steer went to Asheboro.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon Brothers Jake Jacobs and Tom Hackney went to Lexington over the week-end. Brother Alex James spent the
week-end at his home in Laurinburg. Brothers Mark Sloan and Hector Cauble, Tom Perry, and pledges Cauble and McLean went
to Winston-Salem. Bob Florence, Buck Powell, and Tom Creighton went to Chapel Hill and then on to Raleigh over the
weekend. Pledge brothers Shaw Smith and Henry Bahnson went to their respective homes in Mt. Olive and Winston-Salem. Brother Jim
Currie went to his home in Raeford, while George Matthis went to Durham.

Phi Gamma Delta Brothers Brewer, Owen, Reid, Cooke, Lawrence, Holt, Shore, and Gamer made their weekly trip to Greensboro. Dick
Hall and George Jones went home to Chapel Hill for the Tulane-Carolina game. B.B. Plyler went to his home in
Winston-Salem, and Jack Tillotson went to his home in Charlotte. Nick Brenizer and Jim Dorsett traveled to Raleigh. Dan Gilliam’s
mother was a visitor over the weekend. Brother Jim went to the Centre game in Danville, Ky.

Delta Theta Phi Brothers McKnight and Reinhardt went on an extended weekend to the North Carolina-Tulane game in Chapel Hill
and stopped in Greensboro both coming and going. Brother Cothran went to his home in Charlotte; Brother Beall to Lenoir;
Brother Reinardt to Lincolnton. Pledges Snelling and Vereen went with the freshman football team to High Point. Brother Glenn went
to Raleigh looking for a uniform. All the brothers from Tenn. are back to normal again after two weeks of
losses on Tennessee Vols’ mild football team.

FOURTH CONTESTS OPEN Kappa Alpha (Continued from page 6) A long-delayed convention of the Kappa Sigs, led by Wade Smith,
was held in Durham with the Duke chapter acting as host, last Friday and Saturday. Representatives from Sigma were Gil
Palmer, Joe Calvin, Bronston Kenney, Dick Taylor, John Sadler, and Charles Hines. Brothers Sandy and Polk Moffett and Jim Johnston,
'37, dropped in for Sunday supper. John Graham's family visited here over the weekend. Senator Gilmer visited Cornelius Saturday night.

Pi Kappa Phi Saturday night the chapter gave its first big party of the year since rushing. Among the visitors
present were Misses Jane Hashagen, Carolyn Sibley, Carolyn Mosely, Tillie Helms, Helen Cumnock, and Margaret Ivey. Brother Hill went to
Sharon for the weekend and Brother Hendrick and Colvin went home to Cliffside. Brother King went to Lumberton. Brother Cooper
went to Salem College this weekend and

SPROULL WINS (Continued from Page 6) player, will meet Jack Spainhour to determine the other finalist. Shore, a former number
two at Winston-Salem, defeated Bill Ewart, 6-1, 6-1. Spainhour, ex-Lenoir High flash, advanced with a victory over Billy Hamilton, another
Florida boy. Brother Hill went to Sharon for the weekend and Brother Hendrick and Colvin went home to Cliffside. Brother
King went to Lumberton. Brother Cooper went to Salem College this weekend and

SEE Another New Policy Smash Hit... “HIGH, WIDE and HANDSOME” Starring Irene DUNNE Randolph SCOTT Dorothy Lamour Our Gang Comedy
Balcony 25c. Anytime picture you should see with the girl you love... She will never forget it! “STELLA DALLAS”

Dr. and Mrs. Vowles Act as Hosts to Fraternities Delta Phi Alpha and Der Deutsche Verein, the German club, held
its first meeting last Friday evening, Oct. 22, at 8 P.M., at the home of Dr. and Mrs. Vowles. The
main event of the program was the initiation of new members into the German national fraternity, Delta Phi Alpha, and
into the German Club. Ovid Bell, faculty member, and Walter Kuers, Sam Webb were initiated into the German Club. The
next meeting will be held on Friday. H. Ingram remains a member of the club, having declined membership in the
higher order. The meeting began with the roll call and the business, which was quickly dispensed with. The initiation was
the next thing in order on the program. Prof. H.T. Lilly led the German conversation on the subject: Was Ich
Gern Lese (What I Like to Read). This constituted the major portion of the time thus spent. Delicious refreshments were
served at the end of the program by Mrs. Vowles. Monroe Wicker, president, presided at this meeting. The meeting was
adjourned promptly at 9 P.M.

Pres. set the style in ties for fall. College men should and will wear the Beau Brummel and Priestly’s Nor-East
ties. COLORS— @ Maroons @ Greys @ Greens @ Browns FABRICS— @ Burton’s Poplin @ Priestly Non Crush @ Leather
Back Satins @ Homespuns @ Woven All Silks

For Your Entire Wardrobe... Visit MARION DAVIS CO. 205 S. Tryon Street CHARLOTTE, N.C.

ALL NEXT WEEK! BOYS! Here is the one we Zenith & R.C.A. Radios Dry Goods Groceries Radio Supplies Hardware H.
GOODRUM & CO.
