Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN. WEDNESDAY, MARCH 16, 1937

The Davidsonian
Founded By the Class of 1915

1936 Member 1937
Associated Collegiate Press
Distributors of Collegiate Digest

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON Ave New York, N.Y.
CHICAGO + BOSTON ~~ SAN FRANCISCO
LOS ANGELES + PORTLAND + SEATTLE

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879.

SIM MORTON Editor
R. H. ROBINSON Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
O. E. COOKE Managing Editor
Sam Cothran Managing Editor
Euclid Fant Managing Editor
Hector McGeachy Managing Editor
Dick Vowles Sports Editor
Yates Faison Associate Editor
Harry Kuykendall Associate Editor
Howell Overton Associate Editor
Harold Sugg Associate Editor
Daymond Paris Associate Editor
Fitz Dade Art Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
Wilson Lowrance Circulation Manager
Ralph Chandler Circulation Manager
Charles Moore Advertising Manager
J. Hill Advertising Manager

We have committed the Golden Rule to memory; Let us commit it to life—Edwin Markham.

ARTICLE IV; SECTION III...
“No election of an officer of any Student Body organization shall be valid until a committee of three men appointed by the President of each respective organization shall verify the votes cast.” It is imperative that officials counting votes recognize this regulation of the Student Body Constitution, because if the terms are not carried out, the count will be illegal.

Make Davidson's Centennial Program a Success!

TO COUGH OR NOT...
Unnecessary coughing in chapel while a person is speaking at times reaches the stage when the most timid observer wants to express his indignation. We at Davidson pride ourselves on being gentlemen. The primary requisite of a gentleman is good-breeding; and the primary proof of good breeding is good manners. Certainly the spasmodic outbursts of deliberate coughs are not the fruits of good breeding, but on the other hand, reflect the ill-manners of the cougher. It is time the Student Body express their attitude against those few who would belittle the name of a Davidson gentleman. In a forceful manner we ought to demand that when it is not necessary to cough, it is necessary not to cough.

Make Davidson's Centennial Program a Success!

A YOUNG MAN’S FANCY...
Rather unfortunate that after a Florida winter, our first days of real spring coincide with the semester’s first set of reviews.

Make Davidson's Centennial Program a Success!

WE WONDER...
What the debaters from Florida thought of our campus? Granted that from size, furniture, and arrangement the literary society halls the logical place to hold a debate. But it looks like civic pride would either restore these historic buildings to some semblance of repair or take our visitors elsewhere. From all appearances the ceiling of Eu Hall was about ready to descend Monday night, in case of rain umbrellas would have been a wise precaution, broken seats, tattered draperies, scattered heaps of dust, debris, and plaster certainly did no credit to the South’s best college. As pointed out before, the society is helpless. Won’t someone DO something about it?

Make Davidson’s Centennial Program a Success!

WHILE ON THE SUBJECT...
We'd like to reiterate our plea for full-time instructors in speech and journalism. The Davidson sophomores gave a very creditable showing under the circumstances, but the General College team demonstrated clearly the advantages of full-time professional coaching. And we could go on for hours about the aid a journalism professor could furnish to this publication. An adequate command of English is certainly as vital as any other one part of our curriculum.

A Fraternal Suggestion...
One of the most absurd arguments which has come to our notice in some months is the campaign now being waged by The Daily Texan to prevent the establishment of an R. O. T. C. unit on the university campus. All of the old tripe about “making America a warlike nation,” “teaching our youth to kill each other,” “exercise value of military drill negligible,” etc., is being raked up. Most of the arguments of our blatant pacifists scarcely merit serious consideration. Instead of “blind obedience,” intelligent obedience fosters “intelligent obedience,” and instead of leading to war preparedness, it is the surest means of preventing it—at least total unpreparedness has never kept us out of one. To our way of thinking, a summer at Fort McClellan would cure anyone’s desire for martial glory. “It's not the War Department, but the Peace Department, gentlemen!”

Peace On Earth...
Sometime ago this writer was collared, corralled, and propelled much against his protestations into the boarding house of a fraternity of which he is not a member, it being an off day when the treasury could stand it and the freshmen needing a practical example of how one should not eat. It then occurred to him that a plan providing for the fraternities thus entertaining each other would be beneficial. Have a “fraternity month” and on every Friday night of that month have half the fraternity visit another group and the other half receive visitors accordingly. The Pan-Hellenic Council could arrange the schedule. Despite our democracy at Davidson, fraternity tends to make us unnecessarily provincial. This plan, a social pleasure in itself, would greatly alleviate the tendency.
—Harold Sugg.

Campus Comments
As has been reiterated many times, the trend of chatter in this column has been an insurmountable string of protests and criticisms aimed at anything and anybody whose shoulders seemed to be able to bear up under them. Such will not be my course, not for the reason that I am unable to muster any food for protest, or that it is my desire to do my share to alter the trend—neither of these, to be sure. But it gives me no large degree of enthusiasm for criticism, when I have but to look scarcely three months into the future to anticipate the approach of a Centennial celebration for this institution, a thing wonderful in itself, but holding much more in its significance for us today. A hundred years is a considerable period for anything to last, but especially so when there are as many things which can contribute to ruin and downfall as are evident in the life of a college. Then we certainly can't deny that there must be a great deal of good, a great deal of wisdom in the things upon which this existence was and has been founded, the same things we all have found joy in criticizing and to my knowledge, although sincere, have offered no substantial, practical and well-tried means for improvement. I do not say that nothing in the entire make-up has need of alteration, but it does seem that considering that lowly beginning and considering the place of prestige, honor and vitality which the name Davidson College holds today, that it is not quite befitting the last graduating class of a hundred years of graduating classes to attack the bases of this most successful college, the ones upon which she has come all the way. I may be fundamentally wrong. But doesn’t it seem as if these faults have shown themselves wrong and been put aside by those who have guided the destinies of this institution so well? The success in college life which the principles upon which Davidson College is built are conducive to, those of honor, truth, obedience to duty, and democracy, has no tangible evidence. The means to these ends will grow obsolete and will be replaced in time, but the foundations are sound. A hundred years—and the things of Davidson will last another hundred longer than what any of us say or do here will be remembered—so what?
—Ralph McClelland.

P. S.—I request John (Butch) Abernethy, Editor Quips and Cranks, to write the next Campus Comments.

Thirty-four males at University of North Dakota are taking a home management course, which includes the preparation of food, problems of etiquette, selection of food in relation to diet and problems in family relationships and budgeting.

Regents at the University of Omaha voted in favor of a new dormitory which will cost $600,000.00.

CAMPUS CAMERA
AB PARTNERS AT MONTANA STATE COLLEGE IN 1935
MONTANA STATE LABORATORIES USE 5000 FROGS A YEAR, AT 15¢ EACH!

Letters to the Editor

OBSERVE THE SABBATH
Dear Mr. Editor:
It is rare indeed that I am inclined to answer articles appearing in The Davidsonian, but the nature of Campus Comments last week was such that I feel I am entirely justified in expressing an opinion. An opinion that I believe is far more in accord with the feelings of the Davidson students than those protests published last week. Our fellow-student believes that “not even the most ardent opponent could call this harmless recreation (playing tennis) a disturbance of the peace” on Sunday. I beg to inform him that, as Christians, we do not refrain from this and other similar activities on the Lord’s Day, because they might disturb the peace, but for the very important reason that Sunday is a day, not part of a day, set aside for the worship of Him who made all days and who ordained that it should be for the honoring and glorifying of His holy name. Old fashioned, am I? Then I thank God that I am, however, I can gladly say that my Sundays spent thus are not stale and insipid as my colleague seems to indicate that his are. It is these who open our theaters and other amusement businesses on Sunday, and soon have it commercialized. Davidson stands for the highest Christian principles, and such comments should not be allowed to go out from Davidson to be read by its friends and other colleges without a vigorous denunciation.
Sincerely yours,
W. C. B.

QUARTER SYSTEM
Dear Editor:
Thanks to the Scripts ’n Pranks for bringing into mind the idea of the quarter system. This bee has been buzzing in my bonnet ever since the day that I returned from those glorious holidays. I must admit here that I don't know the scholastic advantages of having such a system, but it is one that is being put more and more into use. I also realize that the whole system of courses would have to be changed and mapped out again. But that would give only the administration a headache. The results of the Scripts 'n Pranks poll have not been announced yet, but I believe that the quarter system is desired by the majority of the student body. If the majority are against it, all I have to say is that they are pains in the neck and don’t know what they want. During my Xmas holidays, I became green with envy when I learned that several of my cohorts had already had their exams and were able to enjoy their holiday to the best of their ability. (I won't go into that part). While I had the thought of exams hanging over my head during this time of festivity. Their spring holidays come after theSecond quarter exams have been finished, and some had as much as a whole week! When I have a vacation, I think it would be nice to come back all refreshed and ready for a new beginning. —CANUTE.

* * *

HOW STILL YE LIE

Dear Editor:

During the last months Davidson has been boasting about the many fields in which it has pioneered, but before we continue to take pride in our progressive attitude I suggest that we catch up with some other institutions with regard to our Sunday blue laws.

While the modern Babylon indulges in such sinful and indecent Sunday pastimes as tennis and golf, a small community in Mecklenburg County still abides by the inhibitions of another generation. Oh, little town of Davidson, how still we see thee lie—on Sundays!

During the spring several hundred students will spend long afternoons in comparative boredom here, or leave for a less repressive atmosphere. It's strange, but we aren't all disposed to taking long walks or reading helpful books. The ruling on Sunday observance reads as follows: On the Sabbath Day there shall be no games or conduct of any sort inconsistent with the proper keeping of the Sabbath. I have no quarrel with the ruling but with the interpretation which the administration feels forced to use. I think we have every right to question the Pharisaical adherence to the “mores” of fifty years ago. Particularly is this true when student opinion merely mirrors the more general impression throughout the country that Christ meant what He said in the words “the Sabbath was made for man, and not man for the Sabbath,” and “judge not, that ye be not judged.” Fifty years in the future our ideas may look as silly as bustles and beards do today. We do not need to get ahead of the times, but I plead that we not stay behind the times.

—HARDICANUTE.

* * *

CHANGING TIMES

Dear Editor:

I wish to concur with the writer of Campus Comments and the sports editor for that excellent suggestion in your last issue regarding the opening of golf and tennis courts on Sunday.

We feel sure that none of our student body would wish to be guilty of Sabbath-breaking, and all of us wish the first day of the week to remain a day set apart. We would not countenance Sunday movies or any other form of commercialized amusement. However, it seems to this writer that the issue here is different. Since the time when, at the close of creation, “The Lord rested on the seventh day ...” it has been designated as, in the words of the old hymn, “day of rest and gladness, day of all the week the best.” I can scarcely see how the mild sports above mentioned come under the classification of work. After a hard week’s work this type of physical relief is often one of the most real forms of rest. While tennis and golf may not exactly coincide with the orthodox conception of observance, I fail to see where they can do more harm than some of our more-than-secular dormitory bull sessions or a bumming tour of the surrounding country. Opening of the courts would not force their use on those who do not care for this type of recreation, but it would provide a more wholesome outlet for many of our more restless individuals. Ideas change. How many of us now eat a dinner cooked on Saturday so that our servants may avoid the work of preparing the Sunday meal? Yet to forbid wholesome recreation on the day when it is most needed smacks of the same ideal.

Sincerely,
—BLUESTOCKING.

* * *

By AL CADE

Near the gate to the cemetery of Gettysburg is a sign reading: “All persons found using firearms in these grounds will be prosecuted with the utmost rigor of the law.” The recent Scripts ’n Pranks poll will probably reveal opinions of students on existing conditions at Davidson which appear to them equally incongruous with times and mores. The radical, or perhaps it’s the progressive, and the conservative elements are in constant conflict. This is a Good Thing, maintaining a balance or elasticity of perspective.

It is generally agreed by all and sundry that there exists at Davidson an atmosphere, some call it a spirit, an intangible, indefinable something which few, if any, other schools possess. We have grown up in this tradition. We take it for granted. But it is a living thing which must be nurtured and maintained or it will die. When a man either forgets or doesn’t know how to laugh at himself, he is lost. When a sculler rests on his oars, forward motion ceases. When a student body rests on the traditions and achievements of the past, progress ceases and a lackadaisical stagnation is the result.

One hundred years of progress! How far have we gone? How much further are we going? Potent point from Quotable Quotes in the Salemite: “The worst thing that can happen, it seems to me, is to have a school deal principally in terms of fear, force and artificial authority.” Dr. Albert Einstein of relativity fame suggests a doing away with the “I'll flunk you if you aren’t good” set-up. This condition does not necessarily seem to be apropos here. It is the attitude of the student body that seems to be the question mark both within and without the school. Perhaps we need a Hogarth of the pen. Gentlemen, are we slipping?

Chivy Chivy ... Snozz Hill has offered his proboscis to the music dept. to be used when the bass sax is out of commish. Gib Smith calling a point of jurisprudence to get one of his friends into a locked car at a roadhouse. Speedy Turner celebrating recent Phi Beta bid. Overton to Brenau to find rib pinned up and rival did the decent thing. Pinky-Puss Mills, J. C. Crowell, Ed Armfield, and Worth Sprunt introduced to novel cuisine at Dr. and Mrs. Hood’s dinner. Joe Hunter, Skunky Peters and Harold Gildersleeve have blanket hair. Tommy Thompson says Springs Pharr should be a broad-jumper. Why Sky Cline to Siler City? And Bob Anders to Washington, but won't talk. George Norfleet and Charlotte's BO-PEEP. Bill Rader to Salisbury for date and carried business book. Wait until he takes Sociology 31 (Marriage to you). Ken McLean apologizing for romantic tendencies and Tarry being witty. Tom Breeden, Coot Gladden, Wade Barrow, and Charlie Hines conversing again. Ask Dave McMullen, Bull Durham, Add Long, and Doug Neal about the Pika house party. Ogden Spoon and Tarzan’s mate. Hayseed and Mathis to Durham and why did Pinky-Puss and Pete suddenly change their minds and go to Winthrop instead? And speaking of Junior Speakings, have you seen the Cannibal Dance? —The Minuet.

Tripod Lattimer, Springs Pharr, Mark Cauble, and Jake Jacobs to Raleigh for probably best weekend of the week and Southern Conference finals, dance, pajama parade through lobby of Sir Walter, St. Mary’s and Meredith. Bill Kiesewetter in Raleigh at Tournament and intriguing prom-trotters with Yankee dancing, which is a Good Thing. The Pi Kappa Phi’s to Duke and informal conclave in Washington Duke Tavern. Fort and Charlie Parker back from mountaineer wrestling with tin ear and (Continued on Page 6)

* * *

Christmas in the Fatherland—

Now that Germany is beginning to exert an influence that must be felt on the Davidson student body, and sapping its number each year, it seems high time that we paused to consider the life that awaits those of our number who answer the call of the wild. Hence we quote from a letter recently received in our midst. If members of the upper classes can't guess the identity of the writer they didn’t know him as well as most of us did:

“By Christmas my German was passable. With a boy from New York I was invited to visit an American girl and her Swiss husband in the Swiss Alps south of Zurich. We spent two glorious weeks there skiing every day and doing it up in real fashion. After ripping down from a mountain peak 1800 meters high to the village at 800 meters in an hour I figured I was the real McCoy. We went over into Austria into the Tyrolean Alps with the car for two days at ritzy St. Anton — Bill (my pal) and Irma, who is a honey of a girl and a good sport. We paid 2 schillings apiece and all slept in the same room in a cow barn. The first day I tried to ski the dangerous run from St. Christoph at the top of the Arlberg to St. Anton far down on the other side. Tried some fancy turns and wrenched my left ankle and knee at the same time. Had a — — of a time during the painful operation of taking my skis off and hobbling to the road, about 200 meters away. Some English couple picked me up there and we went down to St. Anton on their sled.”

This is about one page out of twelve closely written pages, all as full of un-Davidson adventures. Time of the next sailing to Germany can be secured through your travel agent.

* * *

Speaking of the Speaking

For the sake of uniformity, and also with a philanthropic eye to student welfare, the Junior class has decided, through its dance committee, to donate the masks which are to be worn to the Friday night affair. What more could you ask? Melodies by Mellen, free masks, and beautiful women. Only possible hitch is that there might be some awful shocks when the unmasking takes place at intermission. The faster reports on Mellen’s music arrive, the better the set looks. We regret that he did not originate rippling rhythm, however. What a honey of a trade name “Walter Mellen” would make for a rippling rhythmaster!

* * *

Stuff ...

Hope you heard the Siberian Singers last night — they were swell ... Nothing is quite so black as the business side of a sheet of carbon paper ... With the current prevalence of free shows at the local cinema house the passes held by certain of our plutocrats are just so much paper these days ... The architects are still at it; in the President's office is another stack of drawings for the Davidson of Tomorrow. Go take a look at them. ... Plans for the pageant are being held up by the sickness of the New York specialist with the hard-to-spell name.

Despite the numerous comments it has excited in this press, the lighting of the stage in Chambers auditorium is still terrible. When plays are given the footlights make it visible, but speakers are lost in the shadows throughout their talks. It is too bad that a building otherwise so well equipped should have a platform with as poor illumination as was available in the gaslight and kerosene (horse-and-buggy, to you Democrats) days. Maybe even worse. Suggestion to the class of ’37: eliminate this failing with your class gift. The college seems indisposed to correct it.

In order to study the night-life of birds, George R. R. Pflaum, debate coach at Kansas State Teachers College, has put up a glass wren-house, with electric light attachments, in his backyard.