Page Six THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 1937

Davidson Scouts Plan to Celebrate
Prof. Johnston Takes Charge Of Troop, Assisted By College Students

CHARTER TO BE GIVEN
“Scout Week” Celebrated Nationally This Week

On Thursday evening, February 18, at 7:30 there will be held in the Davidson Presbyterian Church a meeting of the
Court of Honor of the Davidson Boy Scout Troop, and also a program. The occasion of the meeting is the
celebration of Scout Week. The Davidson troop has been recently reorganized in the Charlotte Council, with Professor F. W. Johnston
as Scoutmaster, who is assisted in this work by college boys under the leadership of Hector McGeachy, head of boys’
work, and Ed Finley, Bob King, Jack Ferguson, Stuart Oglesby, I. Whetmore, Bob Lafferty, Glen Greer, and R. Allison.

The program on Thursday night will be partly to celebrate the completion and occupancy of the new Scout hut, and
partly to make awards to members of the troop who have made progress in scouting.

Steere To Preside
J. E. Steere, Scout Executive for this district, will preside over the Court and present the troop charter. The program
will be as follows: Assembly, by the bugler; Color Ceremony, by the Fox Patrol; Welcome, by the Patrol Leader; A
History of the Scout Movement in Davidson; Presentation of the Troop Charter, by J. E. Steere; Acceptance of the Charter
and Introduction of Troop Officers by Scoutmaster Johnston; a Dramatization of the Scout Oath and Law; the Scoutmaster’s Benediction; and
Taps.

The Troop Committee of Davidson consists of P. H. Gwynn, chairman; W. W. Wood, and H. E. Fulcher. The committee
solicits the support of the citizens of Davidson for Scouting, and extends a cordial invitation to all friends of the
movement to be present on this occasion.

Troop Has New Hut
The Davidson Scout Troop is equipped with a new Scout hut on the high school grounds. Several years ago the
boys were using the old Louisiana building which was across the road from Shearer Hall, but when the college decided
to tear down that building, the boys were left with no place to meet. Under Sam Nickey's leadership at the
time, they had acquired a number of tools for a workshop, and the boys had become very much interested in
the work. So the Y. M. C. A. through its man on the cabinet in charge of boys’ work began
to plan for a regular shack. Ed Hodge, of the Class of '35, drew plans for a hut, and made
the solicitations among townspeople who had boys in the work, and were interested in it. He was not able to
get enough money, however, and the following year under John Walker's leadership in boys’ work the program was carried on,
and plans for the hut were continued. A former student of Davidson, and a friend of the boys sent a
check for $150, asking that his name be withheld. This money, plus $50 from the “Y” and something over $100
from interested townspeople enabled the committee to let the contract, and build the building, which was finished last spring. The
building is made up of two rooms, one to be used for troop meetings, and the other is a manual
workshop. The town board granted electric lights and the building is also heated. This fall the same interested friend mailed
another check of $150, instructing the “Y” to use it in any way it saw fit in boys’ work. This
money will provide for the furnishing of the troop room with necessary equipment, chairs, and also for equipping the workshop
with tools for carrying on manual training.

81 SENIORS MAKE (Continued from Page 1)
Norfleet, G. S.; Overton, H. H.; Parker, H. E.; Patterson, R. H.; Peabody, M. E.; Poe, F. S.; Port, A.
T.; Purdy, R. R.; Ramseur, C. M.; Robinson, R. H.; Rose, C. B.; Scott, K. M.; Sellars, D. R.; Smith,
B. C.; Smith, G. L.; Sprunt, C. W.; Stewart, R. B.; Sugg, H. W.; Talmadge, T. D.; Templeton, J. Y.;
Thompson, T. F.; Thurston, T. G.; Turner, E. D.; Vance, R. M.; Vass, L. C.; Westall, J. M.; Winn, J.
C.; Woodward, H.

Official Week
LINGLE WRITES SHORT MANUSCRIPT
“The Davidson College Centennial” Is Sent To Alumni And Friends

“The Davidson College Centennial,” a short manuscript compiled by Dr. Walter Lingle, was printed last month and is now being
distributed among the alumni and friends of the college all over the world. The pamphlet is a reprint from the
recent Union Seminary Review in which it was first published.

“The Davidson College Centennial” is a brief sketch of the history of Davidson which also includes certain outstanding facts about
the present status of the college and some of the hopes and possibilities of the future. Dr. Lingle has written
a very interesting early history of Davidson. Among the incidents described is the ancient tradition which surrounds the origin of
the Davidson motto and seal. It is believed by many that Peter Stuart Ney, whom several authorities have affirmed to
be the famous Marshal Ney of Napoleon’s army, wrote the motto and sketched the seal one day during the recess
of a small country school with which he was connected.

The definite history of the founding of the school began with the resolutions drawn up by the Concord Presbytery and
finally realized when a little school was opened in March, 1837, with 65 students and three professors. From that year
until 1855 Davidson College encountered many severe situations and suddenly, when the college was engaged in what seemed to be
the throes of death, came the enriching two hundred thousand dollar legacy of Maxwell Chambers. The War Between the States
almost wiped out this source of income and for years Davidson carried on another fight for finances. The college suffered
a tragic blow when Old Chambers was destroyed in 1921.

In 1924 came the Duke Endowment and following that the many friends rallied to the aid of the college in
constructing the New Chambers. Today Davidson stands as the dream of a multitude of men and women.

AMONG THE GREEKS (Continued from Page 5)
Johnson visited the chapter over the weekend.

Phi Delta Theta
An informal banquet was held at the Hotel Charlotte on Friday evening. Among the alumni present were John Newton, John
Partridge, Dick LeGrand, Paul Arrowood, Jim Cothran, and Carter Gennett. Gamma chapter announces that its formal initiation will be held
Friday night, February 19.

Sigma Phi Epsilon
Epsilon chapter held its formal initiation Wednesday night. The following men became members of the chapter at that time: Ed
Cloyd, Walter Sawyer, Wesley Coghill, John Tice, John Crabb, Bob Doty, Walter Kunz, John Pridgin, and Walt Fitzgerald. Over thirty
brothers and their dates attended a banquet at the Hotel Charlotte Saturday night. Walter Harper acted as toastmaster. There was
a feed at the house after the Friday night dance.

Philanthropic Group To Select New Men
The Philanthropic Literary Society held its regular meeting last Tuesday, Feb. 9. The features of this meeting were four interesting
and informative talks by members of the society. Oscar Joyner spoke on an article in a recent magazine which dealt
with a lunatic village in Belgium. Dan Cagle gave a humorous talk on “Home Life in Chitling Switch.” Then Russell
Kerr described his “First Trip to Charlotte.” The last speech was by Henry Harkey, who reviewed a book entitled “Psychology
of Power,” by Hadfield. The time was set for the next regular meeting on a week from Wednesday, Feb. 23.
During the week, a selected group will receive bids from this society. Those who accept will be taken in at
the spring initiation, to be held at this meeting.

Musical Group Receives Pfohl
Professor Pfohl Elected to the American Band-Master Association

PASSES SET OF EXAMS
J. C. Harper Is Only Other Member In South

Professor James C. Pfohl has been elected to membership in the American Bandmaster Association. This association was formed in 1928
and at the present time has a membership of about seventy musicians in theUnited States, Canada, and England. Only three
members were taken in during the past year—they being Mr. Prescott, the director of the University of Minnesota band; Carleton
Stewart, the director of the National Champion High School Band of Mason City, Iowa; and Prof. Pfohl, the director of
the Davidson Band. After being elected to membership, one must pass a set of four three-hour examinations on musical history,
form analysis, theory and harmony, and band arrangements. Prof. Pfohl was elected last August, and took his examinations during December.
He was notified last week of his acceptance. There has been only one other member in the association from Maryland
to Florida, and that is Captain James C. Harper of Lenoir, who is a Davidson alumnus and a trustee of
the college at the present time. The late John Phillip Sousa was honorary life president of the association, and Edwin
Franko Goldman is at present an honorary life president. The active president is Frank Simon, the conductor of the Armco
Band of Cincinnati.

A prof was trying to quieten his class. “I won’t go on with my lecture until the room settles down,”
he rapped. “Better go home and sleep it off, old man!” replied an experienced student.

reel dope

DAVIDSON THEATER

Wednesday, Feb. 17
Come Closer Folks—James Dunn as a racketeer salesman, talks his way out of jail into a job in a department
store where Marian Marsh is manager. Romance and honest ambition clash when his pals turn up.

Thursday, Feb. 18
The Plough and the Stars—A picture by the same man who directed The Informer. Barbara Stanwyck in the role of
the young wife who sees her dreams of happiness shattered by the tragedy of the revolution. Her husband is ably
played by Preston Foster.

Friday, Feb. 19
Dangerous Number—This is an exciting detective picture starring Robert Young and Ann Sothern. By all means see it and try
to solve the mystery.

Saturday, Feb. 20
Along Came Love—A homey, amusing comedy with an unexpectedly dramatic climax concerning a salesgirl’s love for her ambitious doorman boyfriend
who is studying to be a baby doctor. The salesgirl is Irene Hervey and her boyfriend is Charles Starrett.

Mon.-Tues, Feb. 22-23
On The Avenue—At Last! Irving Berlin’s “On the Avenue.” This is one of the best of the recent musical comedies,
starring Dick Powell and Madeleine Carroll. Alice Faye and the Ritz Brothers are also featured.

Wednesday, Feb. 24
Rainbow on the River—Eddie Cantor’s adopted son, Bobby Breen, plays the lead in this picture. He is ably supported by
May Robson and Charles Butterworth.

DAVIDSON BELL HAS INTERESTING STORY
Presented By F. B. McDowell, Honoring Davidson’s World War Dead

An important element in the lives of all Davidson students is the school bell which is heard so often during
the course of each day of the school term. On the average school day, the bell is rung at least
twelve times at regular intervals to summon the students to classes, meals, and etc., and thanks to the excellent service
of the janitors who ring it, the accuracy of the time of its ringing can be relied upon. The bell
has been in use at Davidson for fifteen years, having been installed on top of a tower behind the old
gymnasium when it was brought here in 1922. It remained on the tower only for a short time and was
then placed in its present position on top of Chambers Building near the east corner of the dome. In regard
to the bell itself, it is interesting to note that it was cast in Troy, N. Y., by the Meneely
Bell Company at a cost of approximately $1,800. The weight is 1,500 pounds, and it is in the key of
G. The bell was donated to the college by the Honorable F. Brevard McDowell, who was a graduate of Davidson
and a member of the class of 1869. The gift was made as a memorial to the former Davidson students
who were killed in the World War. These facts are brought out in the etching on the side of the
bell which reads as follows:

1922
Presented to Davidson College by Honorable F. Brevard McDowell of the class of 1869
In memory of our soldier dead
“To you from falling hands we throw The torch;—be yours to hold it high.”

Riflemen Will Fire in Match
Team Will Compete in Annual War Department Corps Area Match

During this week the college rifle team will compete in the War Department Corps Area Match. This is an annual
affair for all colleges and university R. O. T. C. units throughout the country. The team score for this match
is made up of the ten high scores of fifteen men firing. Each team fires its score on its own
range. The results are then sent to the Commanding General of the Corps Area in which the school is located.
These figures are verified and compared with other scores in order to determine winners. Each individual member of the team
must fire ten shots per position. There are four positions. The contestant is allowed two practice shots for each of
these. This will be the first important match for the team this year. In practice, the team has shown considerable
promise and it is hoped that it will finish high in the coming contest.

NED IVERSON LEADS CATS
(Continued from Page 4)

By virtue of his sensational shooting in this game, Iverson captured ninth place among the individual scorers of the Southern
Conference, running his total up to 84 points, close behind Hill of State and Mullis of Carolina. Saturday night the
two teams will meet again at Davidson and the outcome may decide which of them will go to the Conference
tournament.

LOCAL LAUNDRY
(Continued from Page 5)

At this point, the clothes have not been touched by anything, being protected by the net bags. Finally, they are
taken out of the bags and any missing buttons are sewn on. The laundry spends about $100 every year on
buttons. Now every garment is pressed without wear or friction.

Christ Needs New Leaders
Union Theological Seminary, Richmond, Virginia
(A Serial Advertisement)

Richmond, Va.—Almost every section of the Southland was represented in the record crowds that packed Schauffler Hall at Union Theological
Seminary to hear Dr. Herman H. Horne, Ph.D., LL.D., the Rev. Hugh T. Kerr, D.D., LL.D., and the Rev. F.
Crossley Morgan, D.D., deliver the annual Sprunt Lectures. The addresses lasted from January 31st through Saturday, February 6th. The Sprunt
Lectures take the place of class work during the first week of the third term each year. Dr. Horne, the
principal lecturer, is professor of education and the history of philosophy at New York University and a noted writer on
theology, philosophy, and education. A native of North Carolina, he was educated at the University of North Carolina, Harvard, and
the University of Berlin. His lectures, prepared over a period of years and now published in book form, were on
“The Philosophy of Christian Education.” Dr. Kerr, pastor of the Shadyside Presbyterian Church, is also a noted writer on religious
subjects. His lectures were on the Christian Conception of God, Man, Prayer, the Cross, and the Church. Dr. F. Crossley
Morgan, of Augusta, Ga., and a son of the famous Rev. G. Campbell Morgan of London, England, spoke on “The
Vision of Isaiah.”

Say... Mild, ripe home-grown and aromatic Turkish tobaccos... aged three years... make Chesterfield an outstanding cigarette... give them a more
pleasing taste and aroma.

Copyright 1937, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.

...a picture of Chesterfield tobacco just as it comes out of the 1000-pound wooden hogsheads after aging for three years.
If you could be there when these hundreds of hogsheads are opened up... if you could see this mild ripe
tobacco, prime and ready to be made into Chesterfield Cigarettes... see the golden color of the leaf... and get a
whiff of that delightful aroma... you’d say, “Delicious... makes me think of fruit cake.”
