Page Six | THE DAVIDSONIAN | WEDNESDAY, MAY 19, 1937

WILSON GREETS PRESIDENT OF DAVIDSON

President of United States Receives Davidson President In Washington

TALK OF STUDENT LIFE

Reason Is Given For Withdrawal From College

Half Century of Service

LEAVE THESE THOUGHTS

(Continued from Page 3)

Closed by Dr. Harding

know that—"Davidson is a good place to become four years older.” Dr. Harding came to Davidson in 1888 as Prof. of Greek and German.

DAVIDSONIAN BECOMES GRADUATE OF DAVIDSON

Dick Johnson comes out with this—"It’s good to be getting through, four years is long enough.” John Anderson leaves this thought with us—"The Christian ideals maintained here in every branch of endeavor are certainly praiseworthy, but four years of compulsory church attendance and no dancing in the fraternity houses is carrying things a little far.”

CAT TRACKMEN TAKE 7TH IN CONFERENCE

(The following story is the main one of the first issue of The Davidsonian as it appeared in the issue of April 1, 1914).

At the end of the 1937-38 session, Dr. Caleb R. Harding, professor of Greek Language and Literature, will have completed fifty years, half a century, as a member of the faculty of Davidson College. Although born at Milton, N. C., in the midst of poor educational conditions, Dr. Harding entered Davidson at the age of fifteen, and was the second youngest member of the student body at that time. He received his A.B. degree at Davidson in 1880, and his A.M. here five years later. After securing his doctor’s degree at Johns Hopkins in 1887, he came to Davidson in 1888 as professor of Greek and German, and served in that capacity until 1910. From 1910 he has been professor of Greek Languages and Literature.

Besides being a member of Phi Beta Kappa, Eta Sigma Phi, Delta Phi Alpha, and the American Philological Association, Dr. Harding has recently been elected president of the southern section of the Classical Association of the Middle West and South. He is the author of a number of scholarly articles and books.

MEMBERS OF SENIOR CLASS WILL REGISTER

(Continued from Page 3)

Columbia School of Journalism. Russ Patterson is going to work for Liberty Mutual Insurance Company. Rob Roy Purdy will study English at Vanderbilt.

The photograph above shows the historic home of Davidson presidents. It was built by the first president, Dr. Robert Hall Morrison. The inset shows Dr. Morrison. All of the presidents of the college since its construction have lived in this residence.—(Courtesy Charlotte Observer).

LAST EDITIONS OF THE DAVIDSONIAN

(Continued from Page 1)

The faculty buy some, thus leaving very few extra copies. Anyone who still wants an extra copy should see George Norfleet, business manager, immediately. Anyone who wants his name printed on the front of the annual should also see Norfleet right away.

In addition, there will be an unusual short story by Wade Barrow, entitled “Reunion in the Rain.” An interesting and possibly similar feature to past issues will be what is called, “Humor from the Files.” This contains jokes from past issues of The Davidsonian.

The athletic revenue of the University of Michigan for the past 15 years amounts to $7,032,676.43.: 60 M I e book is divided into the regular number of articles, papers, and magazines since 1880, historical humor, and $0.00 a month. HATER ALIOnS; college wade; pamphlets, and also an unpublished book of Greek Poetry and Prose in English Translation. That’s real economy in board! But that was one hundred years ago when Davidson College was first begun. Nevertheless, you can still get real economy in board if you eat with us. This year, there will be a senior section containing the jokes, campus views, and the picture and write-up of each of the ten most outstanding members of the class of 1937. Finally, there will be a mammoth super-collection of the cream of the senior section, which will include a cartoon by Fred Smith, alumni secretary. Harding has been an elder in the Davidson College church since 1896. 

There will be three senior's pictures on each page, with of course each senior's picture and write-up. This year, the senior section will also have a snapshot section, containing a wide assortment of snaps of everything from bathing beauties on down, or up. In addition, there will be cartoons by Ryburn and Harbin. Sugg, Kuykendall, and Johnston are writing their farewell columns. 

The Little Pep Sandwich Shop, Davidson, N.C., also has a Davidson freshman and classmate of President Martin, a hearty handshake and mutual expression of good wishes. The visit was over. It was only a short interview, but characterized by directness, simplicity, and cordiality. President Martin, in speaking of Mr. Wilson, said: “Mr. Wilson is to me better looking than his pictures, though they are exceedingly like him. He gives you the impression of strength with much of it held in reserve.”

Rattlesnake meat, costing $16 per pound, was eaten by two experimenting students at Mankato State Teachers College, Minnesota.

STELNWAY PIANOS
HAMMOND ORGANS
MUSIC — BAND Instruments
Andrews Music Co.
231 N. TRYON ST.
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

SUN GLASSES... SUN SHADES... TOILETRIES...
SOUTHERN
M. P. Henderson 5 & 10c Store
Prompt and Cheerful Service
GULF GAS & OIL

Davidson Theatre
May 19-20
Aroma is half the pleasure of smoking
THE WOMAN I LOVE—Friday, May 21
Spencer Tracy, Gladys George, in a thrilling love story of the battle front.
Saturday, May 22
HELP FROM SCOTLAND YARD
With Karen Morley, Robert Baldwin, and Katherine Alexander
Monday, May 24
A STAR IS BORN—Janet Gaynor and Fredrick March in a late Hollywood production.

Chesterfield’s aroma is DIFFERENT
More pleasing
That’s because of the way we blend and balance Chesterfield’s mild ripe home-grown tobaccos and aromatic Turkish tobaccos... and because the Chesterfield paper is PURE and burns without taste or odor.