WEDNESDAY, MARCH 3, 1937 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Three CHEMICAL FRATERNITY REPRESENTED BY TRIO AT DUKE CONVENTION CHEMICAL HEAD SPEAKS Duke School of Chemistry Sponsors Meeting The Alpha Alpha chapter of Gamma Sigma Epsilon, national honorary chemical fraternity, was represented at the convention at Duke University by Professors Avery Patton and Hervey Ross, and J. Marion Bryant. The meeting was held Wednesday, Feb. 24, at the Duke School of Chemistry in Durham. The principal speaker was Dr. E. R. Weidlein of Pittsburgh, Pa., president of the American Chemical Society and director of the Mellon Institute for Industrial Research. His speech was on the subject, "Science in Action."

Research Talk Dr. Weidlein talked about research made in many industries, and the excellent results obtained from it. He said that the advertisement “Reach for a Lucky Instead of a Sweet” was almost disastrous to the sugar industry. The consumption of sugar dropped off so much that research had to be made to save the industry. As a result of this work the industry has been saved by such things as glue and use in the rayon field. Another interesting study was made of sleep and it was found that the crawl stroke is most popular and that a bed too soft will cause the sleeper to cramp and wake up.

Glass Products Safety glass has been perfected, and now glass cloth is being used for neckties and other articles. It has been found that many of the synthetic goods have definite advantages over the real product. Synthetic rubber is especially useful. One of the greatest discoveries in the Mellon Institute is a cure for pneumonia. It has been perfected only in the last few months and is now still being tested. Dr. Weidlein said, however, that the tests have been successful so far. This cure is a tablet which is taken like aspirin. Dr. Weidlein said in closing that the best way for industry to insure itself is through research.

MUSIC NOTES Band-Glee Club The Symphonic Band and then the Glee Club and Orchestra will give concerts in Chambers Building Auditorium during the middle of this month. The first concert will feature the Symphonic Band in their annual Spring appearance here. This will be on the 12th of March, at eight o'clock. The Glee Club and Orchestra will appear here on Friday night, March 19. Both groups will give the same type programs that they use on their trips. The evening after their concert here the Symphonic Band will go to Winston-Salem. There they will play in Memorial Hall at Salem College.

Glee Club-Orchestra The Davidson College Glee Club and Orchestra will present a concert at Queens-Chicora College at 8:15 P.M., tonight. The two groups appear there under the sponsorship of the Senior Class. A program of sacred songs, negro spirituals, Russian numbers, and novelties will be given by the Glee Club. The Orchestra will play well-known symphonies. The Glee Club and Orchestra will present their next concert at Converse College in Spartanburg, S.C., on March 11. At both Queens and Converse the groups will be given receptions after the program. On the way to Converse the musical organizations will stop over in Charlotte and appear before the Charlotte Kiwanis Club. They will then have lunch as the guests of that club.

Sunday Concert The program next Sunday afternoon in Chambers Building will be given by Mr. Warren Babcock and Louise Nelson Pfohl. Mr. Babcock will play several cello solos, accompanied by Mrs. Pfohl. Mrs. Pfohl will give a group of piano numbers also. This program, as all of these Sunday afternoon programs, will be at four forty-five o'clock.

TO WED LIBRARIAN The engagement of Miss Alice Gage, above, to Mr. Chalmers G. Davidson, head librarian of Davidson College, was announced in The Charlotte Observer last Sunday. Both are natives of Chester, S.C. Miss Gage attended Chatham Hall in Virginia, Converse College in Spartanburg, S.C., and King-Smith in Washington, D.C., while Mr. Davidson is a graduate of Davidson College, Harvard University, and University of Chicago. Mr. Davidson and his fiancée are

Students Offer Opinions On U.S. Court Proposals NEW MAGAZINE GIVES CHILLS, FRILLS, THRILLS Editor Overton and Staff Again Offer Potpourri of Wit and Originality Warning! Don’t go near the Davidson Post office on or about March 15, or the new Spring Issue of Scripts ’n Pranks will greet you face to face in your mail box. Editor Hal Overton says that the new cover by Ryburn will create more comment than any cover the old Yowl ever had; so be sure and gaze at the cover before opening the magazine. There will be cartoons by Ryburn and Vowles, those vivid portrayers of scintillating wit, and by Harbin and Miller, the freshman class’ contribution to the field of cartoonists. The genius of Gib’ Smith and Linwood Brown will again blossom forth in this issue. Smith’s story is “Black Love,” a story of slaves, and Brown's has the interesting title of “The Gentleman.” There will also be poetry by Dallas Herring and Bill McIlwinen. All the regular features will be present. There will be “Music in the McKnight Manner” for the moody musicians and Bob Johnston will again conduct his “Did You Know That?” column, without which no Davidson College magazine would be complete. The latter has been a permanent feature for the four years, which Bob has been in Davidson. There will be many other stories and features, but Editor Overton wants to save some of the surprises. Postscript: Avoid page 16, on which Sugg’s “Dictated, But Not Read,” appears.

PHI BETA CONCLAVE Phi Beta Kappa will hold the triennial meeting of its National Chapters this year. The convention will be in Atlanta, September 8-11. Davidson will be represented. The most important business to come before the delegates of this convention for many years is scheduled for the September conclave. At that time the constitution and by-laws of the organization will be under consideration for wholesale revision. Davidson’s representatives to the meeting have not yet been selected, but there will be an official delegation from here. This is the first time in many years that the society has held its convention in the south, and this will be a strong incentive for more members of the scholarship fraternity to attend the convention. As is well known, Phi Beta Kappa is a group formed only of those who are outstanding in

Opinions Davidson Men Have Varying Opinions About Supreme Court Change MAJORITY OPPOSE IDEA Conservatism Reigns Among Student Body With the Nation’s Capital in the midst of a heated discussion of President Roosevelt's proposal for renovating the United States Supreme Court, your reporter stepped out to see what the Davidson men were thinking about it.

Sugg’s View Where last fall rang the cries for “Roosevelt and Hoey” the student is stopping to wonder just what is going on inside that inner circle of “big-wigs” up in Washington, D.C. Harold Sugg says: “I am caught between two conflicting streams. The first is the instinctive desire to see maintained a liberal democratic government, and the second is the realization that the Supreme Court by reversing its earlier decisions and continually blocking government regulatory efforts is greatly responsible for monopoly and ‘economic royalists’ today. If the Supreme Court had not denied government its ounce of prevention in the 1890's, government would not be demanding its pound of cure today. The Supreme Court is no sacrosanct judgment seat and the Constitution, with Roscoe Conklin’s fourteenth Amendment, is no virgin document. “Am I for or against? Yes on Mondays, Wednesdays, Fridays, and Saturdays. No on other days. In the meantime, I am glad that the only problem I have to solve is yesterday’s Physics problem.”

Mac Covington thinks that “the judgment of nine men is better than of fifteen.”

Other Thinkers Watson Street: “I believe the action proposed by the President willfacilitate action on the cases before our courts. It will lessen the cost of appeals and thus provide opportunities for appeal to a greater number.” Tyler Port says: “At any other time it might be a good idea, but right now it looks as if he is trying to stuff the New Deal onto the statute books.” Pete McKnight: “Undoubtedly a more expedient handling of the courts and a more liberal attitude are desirable, but the President's proposal smacks of sly and underhanded methods. A more reasonable proposal advanced by a leading economist would be to make it easier to amend that particular part of the Constitution which gives Congress the power to regulate commerce.” Walt Dickson: “Selfishness and ambition seem to have control over the President’s motions.”

It is composed of some of the most brilliant of today’s college students.

INTERESTING DATA IS PRESENTED FOR BOTH CHAMBERS BUILDINGS

New Chambers Wins Second Place in Competition Throughout South

NAMED AFTER TRUSTEE

Old Chambers Built in Form Of A Cross

Everyone connected with Davidson College is familiar with Chambers Building—but not all know its history and the history of Old Chambers Building. For instance, did you know that the Old Chambers was built in the shape of a cross? Or, that the new building is 120 feet back of the old site? Or that 10,238 people pledged money in the first campaign to raise funds for the building of the new Chambers? Or that the architect of the building recently said that Chambers was the best kept building he had ever seen?

Old Chambers was erected in 1858 with money donated by Maxwell Chambers, of Salisbury, a trustee of the college, and a member of the building committee. It was built in the shape of a cross. The center of the cross contained classrooms, and had an auditorium on the second floor. The right and left wings of the cross were bedrooms. This building burned down in November 1921, and by 1922 a campaign was under way to raise money for the proposed new building. In this campaign, $400,000 was raised, the General Education Board of New York being a liberal contributor. $200,000 of this amount was used to erect the south wing of the present building, and the other $200,000 was kept as endowment for the building.

Dr. Price W. Gwynn Talks To Ministerial Students

Meeting Features Business Program

Plans For Trip This Summer Discussed By Davidson Hi-Y Group

The Davidson Hi-Y Club held its regular meeting Monday night in the home of Edwin Shewmake. Ed Jackson, President of the club, presided at this meeting which consisted for the most part of a business program. Plans were discussed for a tour to be taken this summer by the club. This will be a purely social tour, such as Scout troops take to Washington and other points of interest, and it is expected that it will last about a week. It was also definitely decided that the club will have a boxing tournament and a play to help raise finances for the aforementioned trip.

When the second campaign was launched, $400,000 was needed. This was raised largely by big donations from friends of the school, but the little gifts also played an important part. An anonymous gift of $100,000 was received from one source; another unnamed friend gave $50,000, and several people gave as much as $30,000. Nineteen people gave $5,000, to be used for the building of memorial rooms. (These are the rooms with the metal memorial plates on the doors). But at the end of this campaign, $100,000 was still lacking, and the General Education Board of New York again came to the assistance of the school by giving the remaining amount. The entire building, including the equipment, cost $680,000.

Dr. Price H. Gwynn Establishes the Close Relationship Between Family and Religion

Dr. Price H. Gwynn, Professor of Education, addressed the Ministerial Band on February 16, on the subject, “The Disintegration of the American Family—A Challenge to Protestant Christianity.” The speaker, first having established the close relationship between family and religion, attacked Martin Luther’s statement that the church has no responsibility for the success or failure of marriage. To present the picture of family disintegration, he pointed out the condition in regard to divorce alone, how divorce in America, increasing yearly, has already far surpassed the rate in Protestant countries of Europe. Divorce laws he called a “crazy-quilt,” and are probably the most outstanding examples in the whole nation of a profitable racket trading on human failure and misery.” As means toward improvement Dr. Gwynn suggested (1) uniform marriage laws; (2) uniform divorce laws; (3) courts of domestic relations to handle marital difficulties; and (4) a program of education by the churches. In conclusion he challenged the churches to fight to preserve the family, based on romantic marriage, and so to “perpetuate its usefulness and enrich its contribution to social progress.”

The plans for Chambers Building were recently entered in competition with all the plans made for buildings of that type by all of the members of the American Institute of Architects in the south, and the Davidson building won second prize.

OUTSTANDING OFFICER OF HONORARY PHYSICS FRATERNITY LECTURES

Dr. Marsh White Speaks Twice During Recent Visit To College

BIDS ISSUED TO SEVERAL

Dr. Douglas and Several Students Visit Duke

Sigma Pi Sigma, honorary physics fraternity, held a call meeting here last Tuesday morning, so that its members could meet Dr. Marsh White, noted physicist and national secretary of the fraternity. Dr. White delivered a lecture here on Feb. 22. Dr. White was welcomed to Davidson, the birthplace of Sigma Pi Sigma, and gave a short talk to the organization. The bi-monthly Sigma Pi Sigma paper carried an account of the welcoming to Davidson of Dr. White.

Fraternity Bids

Bids to join the fraternity have been issued to several new members. A meeting will be held on March 15 for the purpose of initiating those who accept the bids issued to them. Also at this meeting Professor H. I. Fulcher will give a lecture on some phase of light.

At the meeting last Tuesday, Dr. J. M. Douglas and several students who also attended a meeting of the Associated Physicists at Duke University gave a report on that meeting. Dr. Douglas and this group also went to Chapel Hill, where they attended a similar meeting and also inspected research apparatus and research laboratories there.

U. S. Senator Reynolds says: “Luckies are considerate of my throat”

In a recent independent survey, an overwhelming majority of lawyers, doctors, lecturers, scientists, etc., who said they smoked cigarettes, expressed their personal preference for a light smoke. Senator Reynolds’ statement verifies the wisdom of this preference and so do leading artists of radio, stage, screen and opera, whose voices are their fortunes, and who choose Luckies, a light smoke. You, too, can have the throat protection of Luckies—a light smoke, free of certain harsh irritants removed by the exclusive process “It’s Toasted”. Luckies are gentle on your throat.

A Light Smoke

“It’s Toasted”—Your Throat Protection AGAINST IRRITATION—AGAINST COUGH

“Two Southern traditions are oratory—and good tobacco. Lucky Strike shows me how to indulge in both. For not only pleases my taste but leaves my throat in condition. Last fall in North Carolina—when I made over 100 speeches—I visited the Lucky Strike factory. I believe I discovered, in the Lucky Strike ‘Toasting’ process, the secret of what makes this cigarette so considerate of my throat. I have been more than ever an advocate of a light smoke since seeing the extra care and expense devoted to making Luckies easy on the throat.”

HON. ROB'T R. REYNOLDS U.S. SENATOR FROM NORTH CAROLINA

THE FINEST TOBACCOS— “THE CREAM OF THE CROP”

Copyright 1937, The American Tobacco Company