WEDNESDAY, MARCH 17, 1937 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Five

WILDCAT GRIDDERS CLOSE SPRING PRACTICES

For the past few days, it has looked like the middle of football season, as next year’s team was being
put through their paces by Coach McEver and his aides. The pictures above show the highlight of the spring drills.

1—Chubby Frank Harrison is shown being stopped on a line buck by stubborn defense.
2—Teeny Lafferty draws back to sling a pass as reserve back John Smith breaks through and tries to bat it
down. Fred Dennis is trying to guard Lafferty.
3—Captain Bailey Williams takes a pass as Frank Harrison (right) and Fred Dennis (left) give him competition.
4—Teeny Lafferty darts around the end as Fred Dennis blocks for him.
5—Bailey Williams pulls in a high pass as Bill Davis tries to knock it down.
6—Teeny Lafferty takes a few pointers from Coach McEver on how to drop the ball for a punt, as Chet
Chapman views the situation.
7—Coach Chapman shows Red Miller how to put a shoulder into blocking, as several players look on. They are (left
to right): Bill Johnston, Bailey Williams, and Ned Iverson. Miller is 6 ft. 4 in. tall, and the others are
6 ft. 2 in. tall.

FRESHMEN BALL PLAYER BEGIN

Fraternity Track Men Enter Finals of Meet

Campus Lodge Members Fight For Titles in Meet Begun Last Year

Preliminaries of the second inter-fraternity track meet were scheduled to be run off Tuesday if the weather permitted. Winners of
preliminary heats are to participate in the finals Thursday afternoon. The meet is to be composed of twelve events, the
same as the one held last year. Winners in the initial inter-fraternity meet who thus established records in the various
events were: 100 yard dash—Johnny Tice (SPE) 11:0 seconds; 220 yard dash—Charlie Sample (SPE); 400 yard dash—Bob Gregory (Phi Gam)
1:37; 120 yard low hurdles—Johnny Tice 15:00; three-quarter mile run—Harry Kuykendall (Kappa Sig) 4:01; broad jump—Bill Boyd (Phi Delt) 20
ft. 1 in.; high jump—Joe Johnson (KA) 5 ft. 2 in.; shot put—Bill Benfield (Beta) 41 ft. 11 in.; discus
throw—Boyd 101 ft. 3 in.; javelin throw—tie between Joe Johnson and Bancroft Mosely (Kappa Sig) 143 ft. 7 in.; and
the SPE half mile relay team composed of Friberg, Smith, Sample, and Tice—1 min. 46.2 seconds.

Fraternity sports managers met with intramural director Heath Whittle Monday night and drew up plans and brackets for the preliminary
heats. There are to be three preliminary heats in the hundred yard dash from which the first and second men
in each heat will be permitted to run in the finals. There will be six three-man preliminary heats in the
220 yard dash with the winner in each going to the finals, and five heats of four men each in
the 120 yard low hurdles. Each of the eighteen entries in the broad jump, shot put, javelin, and discus throws
will be given three trials and the nine high men will go to the finals.

ASPIRANTS FOR BASEBALL (Continued from Page 4)

Dickson, Hand, Irwin, Johnson, and Rudisill. The squad is working hard every afternoon in preparation for the first games scheduled
the last of March.

REDS TOP GREYS (Continued from Page 4)

Tackling was shown by both teams. This blocking and tackling was the hard and clean type that everyone likes to
see. There were very few injuries, but Frank was hurt.his nose when he went over for injuries. Harrison scored his
touchdown, and Lew Graham was removed from the game because of an injury. For the Reds, the whole team played
fine ball with Lafferty, Dennis, and Beaty doing exceptionally well in the backfield, and Warden and Bolin doing fine work
in the line. Chubby King was the spearhead of the Grey attack. He was ably helped by Frank Harrison in
the backfield and by Richmond, Williams, and Graham in the line. Coach Gene McEver announced to the team that there
would be a football clinic for the players. He said that the clinic would take place twice a week and
that further plans would be announced later.

DAVIDSON TRACKSTERS (Continued from Page 4)

Whittle said that he did not have many dash men, but he had a few fairly good distance runners from
this year’s cross-country team. Whittle stated that if he could find a few good dash men and with the distance
runners, he expected to put a strong team on the field this year. Davidson's freshmen will open the track season
at Charlotte on April 8, when they meet the Central High team of that city.

DAVIDSON WRESTLERS (Continued from Page 4)

Willis, Harold Gildersleeve, Walt Fitzgerald, Johnny Crabbe, and Sidney Crane. After spring holidays, Coach Harrison plans some spring wrestling practice
for the men who are going to try out for the team next winter. This practice will last approximately a
month and should prove of great value to the team in their bouts of the 1938 season.

Things... Things we could do without: 8:25 Phone calls for the fourth floor. People who ever think they know what
we can do without. Changing books every semester.

Make Davidson's Centennial a tool under competent leadership of Coach Norman Shepard. Several men show considerable promise. Under the competent
leadership of Coach Norman Shepard, the freshman baseball team started practice sessions last week. Due to spring football practice, a
number of the candidates have been unable to report yet, but full strength is expected on the field this week.
Coach Shepard started the ball rolling by explaining the main fundamentals of the game. “The bunt,” he declared, “is an
important weapon in any team’s defense. There are three kinds of bunts,” stated Coach Shepard. “First, there is the sacrifice
bunt, for the purpose of advancing a man or men from one base to another. Second, there is the squeeze
bunt, for the purpose of getting a run in from third base. Third, there is the drag bunt.” Coach Shepard
went on to explain how the bunt is executed, and then had them bunting. He pointed out the defects and
showed the correct manner of each person’s bunt. The importance of playing a tight game was then pointed out by
the coach. He stated that many ball games were won by one run, and he wanted his teams to play
for that one run. The next drill was in the form of batting practice. At this time, the correct stance
and correct swing were shown to the boys. The coach especially pointed out the fault of (Continued on Page 8)

Maybe you've watched the drift... seen “Stroller” take first place among the Varsity-Town sport models. So what?... Just this... Varsity-Town
is “tops” the country over. A great style job! $29.50 to $35. Tate-Brown Co. College Shop—Third Floor. Program a Big
Success.
