FRESHMAN CONTROL AMENDMENT FAILS TO WIN APPROVAL

The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

VOL. XXIV * DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., JANUARY 13, 1937 NO. 14

FELLOWSHIPS OFFERED TO SCIENCE STUDENTS BY RESEARCH COUNCIL

Proposed Amendment to Constitution Voted Down

Dr. J. L. Douglas, Professor-Emeritus of Mathematics at Davidson, Passes January 5th, After Extended Illness

Had Retired From Service Two Years Before Because of Infirm Health; Remained in Davidson as Interested Observer of College Life

Miss Lucy Currie and Frontis Johnston Begin Marriage Career

PFOHL RENDERS MUSIC

The Reverend T. D. Johnston Performs Ceremony

The marriage of Miss Lucy Martin Currie and Frontis Withers Johnston was solemnized Tuesday evening, December 29th, in the Davidson College Presbyterian Church. The ceremony was performed by the Reverend T. D. Johnston, father of the groom, with the Reverend Dr. H. M. Moffett, pastor of the church, assisting.

Promising Students Will Receive Aid

SUGG HEADS NEW GROUP

Adviser Is To Function Separate From Duties Of Court

FULL TIME TO STUDY

“The Court of Control shall remain the court of control,” voted the student body, 208 to 191, last Friday morning, in defeating the proposed amendment to the constitution which would have the freshman adviser elected before that class arrives here and would call the court of control the “freshman committee,” to be headed by the freshman adviser.

Because more disapproval was expressed against the court of control part of the amendment than against the rest of it, a committee, headed by Harold Sugg, has been drafted to draw up another amendment which will propose that the freshman adviser be elected in the spring by the rising senior class and that the court of control be returned to its original status.

The Social Science Research Council has announced offers of pre-doctoral fellowships for graduate study in the social sciences. These fellowships are open to men and women in the United States or Canada who have received the bachelor’s degree or will receive it prior to July 1, 1937. They are not open to persons over the age of 25, or to persons who have been in residence as graduate students for more than one year.

The awards are designed to aid promising students in the social sciences in obtaining research training beginning with the first year of graduate study. Appointments will be for the academic year 1937-38. Requests for renewals for a second year will be considered on the basis of performance during the first period of appointment. Fellows are required to devote their full time to study and to do no other work.

The stipend is $1,000 plus tuition and an allowance for one round trip between the fellow’s home and his place of study. The place of study will be made by the committee, although the candidate shall be elected from the institution from which he has received his bachelor’s degree.

Basis of selection will be full academic and personal records of the candidates, supporting letters from university instructors qualified to write of the candidates’ research promise, and written examinations to be given during the third week of June. Qualified candidates will be required to take College Entrance Board examinations in French and German. They will also take other tests designed to give indication of their relative capacities and preparation for careers in social sciences.

Dr. John L. Douglas, professor-emeritus of mathematics, died at his home in Davidson last Tuesday night, January 5, from a lingering illness that had become acute on Christmas Day. Son of a Presbyterian minister, Dr. Douglas was born in Winnsboro, S.C., and was graduated from Davidson College in the class of 1893. Later, he attended Johns Hopkins University in Baltimore, Md., where he studied for a Ph.D. He held an LL.D. degree; was brother of a physics professor.

ATTEND ASSOCIATION MEETINGS IN RICHMOND

Seven members of the Davidson faculty attended meetings of the Modern Language Association, which was held in Richmond, Va., during the Christmas holidays. The English department was represented by Prof. P. Cumming, Prof. I. J. Erwin, and Prof. W. L. Yount. The Spanish faculty held meetings at Chapel Hill.

WILLIAMSBURG VISITED

Prof. J. L. Douglas was a member of the Session of the Davidson College Presbyterian Church. He was active in church affairs and was known to the students as a Phi Beta Kappa.

The new amendment, drawn up by Harold Sugg, was as follows: “Resolved, That the Student Body Constitution be so amended as to provide that: The Freshman Adviser shall be elected from the rising Senior Class, whose duties shall be to supervise the Freshman Class and to act as adviser to the Freshman Class and to act as adviser to the Freshman Class, taking place immediately after the election of the Senior Class officers.”

John Abernathy Wins First and Third Prizes; Paterson, Second

MANY SNAPS ENTERED

Dr. Lyons, Smith, and Squires Judge Contest

Winners have been selected in the Davidsonian photographic contest, and the prizes have been delivered for the best snapshot. The prize-winning picture was submitted by John Abernathy, president of the Photographic Club, for which he received $5.00 from The Davidsonian. It was the snapshot of Wilbur Edwards which appeared in the Christmas issue of Scripts and Pranks, and shows him reading announcements in chapel. The second prize of $3.00 goes to Reid Patterson, for his character study of a Davidson student.

CHRISTMAS DRIVE GOES OVER THE TOP

More Than Eight Hundred Dollars Pledged

The Y Cabinet, of a committee, predicted last week that the Christmas drive for the electric plant at the Mutoto Mission in the Belgian Congo reached a total of $830 pledged and in cash by the Christmas holidays. Among the dormitories, Watt took the lead, giving $1.80 average per man. Georgia ranked right below them with $1.78 per man.

TRIPS ARE PLANNED FOR DEBATE TEAM

Dr. C. M. Richards, Professor of Bible, Chooses As His Vespers’ Subject “The Eternal Life”

Dr. C. M. Richards, Professor of Bible, spoke at Vespers last Sunday evening on “The Eternal Life.” He emphasized the importance of living a life of service and devotion.

The Davidsonian Mid-Winters Dances will be held on February 5th and 6th. Rumor murmurs the name of Dick Stabile as the orchestra for the event. The Mid-Winters Dances are the social highlight of the winter season and promise no lack of entertainment.Capita, and Rumple quizzed the authenticity. Airings have been made and (Oe, Sek and go NL Mar. The closing date for the receipt of applications is March 15, 1937. Awards will be announced in July. Each candidate must submit a letter from the chairman of the department in which he has majored supporting his application before blanks will be sent to him. Applications must be received by the closing date.

Dr. Richards, a member of the Davidson faculty, was the speaker at the vesper service Sunday night, January 10th. Dr. F. M. Moffett, pastor of the local Presbyterian Church, led in prayer. Dr. Richards chose as his subject, “Eternal Life,” and his text was from John 17:3. He pointed out that life eternal is to know God and His Son Jesus Christ. Dr. Richards said that immortality cannot be proved, but he went on to explain that man cannot conceive of how long eternity is, and he cannot bear to imagine it except in a vague way. His reason for thinking of eternal death is unbearable. Eternal life and eternal death may both begin on this earth. Seeking God's will, obeying, trusting, and following Him in this life is the beginning of eternal life. On the other hand, resisting Him in this life is the beginning of eternal death. Dr. Richards closed with this thought, and he showed that men only need to open their hearts and let Jesus in to receive this eternal life.

SMITH MAKES VISITS

FOUR MEN ADVANCED

In recent practice candidates have shown considerable promise and four reached state competition. However, meeting very strong opposition, Horine failed to get one of the two state appointments. Bob Stewart, applying from his home state of Alabama, also won out in preliminary competition but failed to get a state appointment. Applying from Tennessee was Rucci Batterson. He also won out in the preliminary meets but failed to go through the state finals. Johnny Allen reached the highest goal of the Davidson group in attaining one of the two state appointments from Kentucky, his home state.

ALUMNI GATHER

The Quadwranglers’ Club, of which Dr. C. L. Brown is president, gave a Christmas party in the Banquet Hall of Chambers on Thursday night, December 17. This was an open meeting, at which the ladies were present, and the program consisted of several contests of a facetious nature. Refreshments were served. The next meeting, for which plans have not yet been completed, will probably be held on January 28.

McClure’s Household Is Visited By Stork

Mr. and Mrs. Albert McClure have announced the birth of a baby girl. The baby was born last Saturday morning, January 9 at about ten o'clock. Mr. McClure is the general secretary of the Y. M. C. A. here. Mrs. McClure was formerly Miss Mary McGee of Atlanta, Ga. The little girl has been named Mary Emma.

WHITE TO SPEAK AT EVENING VESPERS

Rev. R. A. White, D.D., of the First Presbyterian Church of Mooresville, will be the speaker at the evening vespers next Sunday, January 17th. Dr. White has occupied the pulpit in Mooresville for some years. Before coming to Mooresville, he was pastor of the First Presbyterian Church in Henderson, N.C.