Page Six THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, APRIL 21, 1937 COLLIER'S PRINT STORY BY BELL Cameron Shipp Has Article on Bootlegging in
New Issue Of Collier’s PRESENT ILLUSTRATIONS Alumnus Active in Writing For American Boy Neill Bell, '32, assistant editor who is
now managing editor of the American Boy Magazine, is becoming more and more active in the field of fiction. He
is one of the many alumni who are distinguishing themselves by the use of their pens. Bell has an article,
entitled “Bat Boying for the Yankees,” in the American Boy. He is also the author of an important story in
the issue for April 24. This story is about dogs. It is entitled “Field Trial.” In this same issue of
Collier’s, there is an article by Cameron Shipp. His article is about bootlegging in the city of Charlotte and includes
actual pictures. Shipp is an alumnus of Davidson but is well-known in Charlotte. Last year, he made the news by
writing a series of articles on the vocational guidance of high school students. Bell graduated here five years ago. He
was prominent on the campus and served as editor of the Davidsonian. He was a member of Alpha Epsilon. PAN-HELLENIC
(Continued from Page 1) satisfactory to the administration. They hope to obtain complete cooperation from the administration. This will embody
not only the dance itself but also such inter-fraternity legislation as rushing. All chapters endorsed the constitution and are presenting
it to the administration. It is hoped that by the middle of next month, the dance article and inter-fraternity legislation
will be in effect. BAND FINISHES (Continued from Page 3) Carolina High School bands. Late afternoon they will take part
in the mammoth pageant, to be held in Durham, commemorating the 100th anniversary of the beginning of public education in
the public schools of North Carolina. On Monday, the entire band will leave for its annual trip through the South.
They will stop first at Greenville, S.C., then will continue on to Atlanta. On the return trip, they will stop
and play at Gastonia, Kings Mountain, and Morganton, thus bringing to a close the band trips for the entire year.
DR. EGBERT W. SMITH (Continued from Page 3) The Sunday evening service was closed with the phrase: “Why didn’t you
come sooner?” This was the phrase that every heathen has echoed, as they think of those loved ones who have
passed on without a knowledge of the true Christ. CONVERSE STARS PLAY (Continued from Page 5) The administration will construct
stage settings for the Converse group and will also sponsor the dinner for the players. An unusual amount of interest
has been shown this year by Dr. Guathmey, President of Converse, and Davidson's President, W. L. Lingle. The Converse group
will arrive in time to dine with the Davidson players, and will also attend a period of non-competitive practice tonight.
They will fire against themselves to help determine who will receive the seven medals. DORSETT AND RYBURN LEAD IN FIRST
VOTING Jim Dorsett was leading Tuesday afternoon in the counting of the ballots in the race for the editorship of
Quips and Cranks for next year. Dorsett had 60 votes, Lafferty 28, Palmer 22, and Fant 20 on the first
balloting. This election is confined to members of the rising Senior Class. In the balloting for the Editorship of Scripts
'n Pranks, humor magazine, Sam Ryburn was leading his nearest opponent, Mac Covington, by 67 votes. Final results were not
available when The Davidsonian went to press. TOWN TATTLE Mrs. John Cumnock with her young daughter, Pinkey, have gone to
Alta Vista, Va., to visit Mrs. Cumnock’s sister. Mrs. E. F. Shewmake has been sick in bed for the past
few days. Twenty members of the Davidson High School Orchestra will go to Greensboro this week to compete in the
music contest. At a recent meeting of the Hi-Y Club, the officers for the coming year were elected. They are
as follows: Bill Wood, president; Robert Church and Thomas Withers, vice-presidents; and Jimmy Fulcher, secretary and treasurer. Former Student Of
Jr. Class Succumbs Naval Academy officials recently announced the death of Midshipman B. F. McLendon, Jr., 22, of Bennettsville, S.C.
McLendon, a member of the third (sophomore) class, died at the Naval hospital last week from a kidney infection. He
had been in the hospital since February 10. Funeral services were held at the Naval Academy Chapel, and his body
was shipped to South Carolina for burial. McLendon was the son of “Cyclone Mack,” a famous evangelist, and is survived
by his mother and a brother. He was a member of the freshman class at Davidson in 1934-35. The Twentieth
Century Club met on Friday afternoon at the home of Mrs. Norman Shepard. Mrs. Fred Hengeveld gave a very interesting
paper, “Don Quixote.” Mrs. John T. Rhett gave a bridge party at her home on Wednesday evening in honor of
Mrs. Chalmers Davidson. Miss Mary O. Graham of Charlotte visited in Davidson last week.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving
the original meaning and punctuation:

---

In matches. At press Tuesday afternoon, Bill, subject of music, was conducted by long Ate the Home of Mire A.
Gurie: 1935, and then won his appointment to the Annapolis Academy. Quadrangler’s room. The members present: Walter Kunz leads in
points. Rader was eliminated in the first round. Mrs. Mattie Murphy and Miss Hattie Thompson. Masquers will be invited to
attend. Behind. Third in line is A. C. Warlick, and Captain Pharr holds the next place. Any one of these
may win the gold medal.

Miss Mary C. Withers spent the weekend in Davidson with her parents, Mr. and Mrs. J. R. Withers. Mr. Speight
Gurley, a sophomore in Davidson High School, underwent an operation for appendicitis in the Charlotte Sanatorium on Wednesday morning.

She—"Do you play by ear?”
He—"Well, not by my ear, you don't."

CATS WHIPPED

If she looks old, she's young.
If she looks young, she's old.
If she looks back, follow her.

The club will in time for dinner at The Citadel on April 30, here. They will bring six men to
compete with our top six, and our team hopes to have a return encounter with them. The medals will be
given to the high scorer, the high upperclassman, the high freshman, and second and third high upperclassmen and freshman.

The Thelemite Club met last week at the home of Miss Orrie Steel. Mrs. E. J. Erwin, Mr. W. Wood,
and Mrs. A. V. Goldiere had charge of the program. Mrs. J. P. Williams and Mrs. G. L. Watts attended
the North Carolina Federation of Music Clubs in Hickory last Thursday.

STATE SCRIBES

The chapter held its annual installation banquet in Charlotte on Friday evening, and the Royal Campbell Orchestra will provide the
music for the dance which is to be held at 10:00 P.M. on Friday.

PHI’S CHOOSE

Then the band’s membership was increased, took the name of Meadowbrook Orchestra, and booked a round of theater, hotel, and
other engagements, including the old Pavillion Royale. In 1931, Dailey and three of his men bought it and named it
the “Meadowbrook.” The band has been broadcasting from this spot over CBS times weekly since April 1934.

UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY
RICHMOND, VA.
B. R. LACY, JR., D.D., President

Two fellowships for study abroad, and three for study at home, are awarded each year to members of the graduating
class at Union Seminary. Members of all classes are eligible for scholarships.

Wow! For big league pleasure

Copyright 1937, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.

Bleachers roar... says Al Schacht of Big League Baseball Scores... 6:35 E.S.T. COLUMBIA STATIONS

“Come on” the Swat’em out! As the big leaguers swing into action, watch those Chesterfield packages pop out of the
pockets. There’s big league pleasure for you... everything you want in a cigarette. A homer if there ever was one...
all the way ’round the circuit for mildness and better taste... with an aroma and flavor that connects every time.
