Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, APRIL 7, 1937 The Davidsonian Founded By the Class of 1915 1936 Member 1937 Associated
Collegiate Press Distributors of Collegiate Digest Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson” Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY Charlotte, North
Carolina SUBSCRIPTION RATES Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative 420 MADISON Ave. New York, N.Y. CHICAGO + BOSTON + SAN FRANCISCO LOS ANGELES - PORTLAND -
SEATTLE Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879.
JIM MORTON ... Editor R. H. ROBINSON Business Manager EDITORIAL STAFF J. OWEN COOKE Managing Editor Sam Cothran Managing Editor
Euclid Fant Managing Editor Harold Sugg Sports Editor Daymond Turner Associate Editor John Winn Associate Editor Sam Ryburn Associate Editor
Fitz Dade Copy Reader BUSINESS STAFF Wilson Lowrance Circulation Manager Ralph Chandler Circulation Manager Charles Moore Collection Manager M. Hall
Advertising Manager Jens Smith Asst. Business Manager Every word of God is pure: He is a shield unto them that
put their trust in Him. Prov. 30:5. We mourn the passing of Dr. T. W. Lingle. In his life at
Davidson he has made many student and faculty friends. His place will be hard to fill. THE DAVIDSONIAN joins in
extending sincerest sympathy to his family and more intimate friends. Make Davidson's Centennial Program a Success! THE NEW ORDER... With
this issue, the old staff goes out and we believe a very efficient one will take over the reins. During
the past year, several students have contributed material for the different departments and other individuals have aided in various ways.
We would first like to thank Daymond “Speedy” Turner for his numerous editorials, Fred Smith for pictures and cuts, and
Harold Sugg for editorial material and columns. Thanks to Al Cade for his Nozy Broom, and Bill Telford for his
constructive criticism.—J. T. * * * * * SIGN POST AHOY ... “Davidson College” are the words printed on a
very, very small black board beside the highway leading to Charlotte. That very small black board needs a little touching
up to make it look at all appropriate. Wouldn't it be better for the college to erect a larger sign
post or do away with this one? A more impressive sign board would be more in fitting with the general
campus layout. The name of the college in large letters over a couple of the gateways leading into the campus
would be an excellent idea. O. D.K. LEADER ... Few Davidson students realize the important part that Mr. F. L.
Jackson plays in the field of national college finance and O. D. K. activity. Mr. Jackson’s ability and leadership are
clearly manifest in his recent election to the national presidency of Omicron Delta Kappa. * * * * * MASQUERS
CO-OPERATE ... There is no story in this issue of “The Davidsonian” concerning the Masquers’ prospective play, “The Bishop Misbehaves,”
and for good reason. Dunny Covington, president of the players, says that the play has been given up for good.
Due to the fact that the local dramatists are needed so greatly both by Miss Palmer and Mr. Viehman in
their respective pageants, they will give their whole-hearted co-operation toward these enterprises. AT SWEETBRIAR ... In a recent copy of
“Life,” we noticed that Sweetbriar girls take their dates to Saturday morning classes during dance weekends. We wonder if such
actions at Davidson would disrupt the classes? It would be fun to try anyway! NONCHALANT ... Cheers from passers-by and
honks from cars didn’t discourage the Kilgore College co-ed who brushed her teeth in front of a filling station recently.
She continued the up-and-down plying until she finished her innermost molar. Make Davidson’s Centennial Program a Success! Push Pageant ....
Most of us rather unconsciously associate the word “pageant” with those grammar school productions replete with milling children, nervous teachers,
proud parents and yards of cheese-cloth. Therefore we were pleasantly surprised to hear Mr. Viehman’s plans for our Centennial production.
He made it apparent that a pageant IS something worthy of adult efforts, that it can be made a real
contribution, a worthy presentation of our history. A great deal of credit is due Mr. Viehman and the members of
the FACULTY COMMITTEE for the amount of work already done. The script alone must have involved endless research and careful
inquiry into the past. Other details have been as carefully arranged. From time to time in the past we have
urged student co-operation in this effort. The time has come—no one who heard the talk Monday night can fail to
be interested. And interest will certainly be cumulative. Success or failure is dependent upon student help. There is a job
for everyone. None of us should be bashful about offering our services. For while there is ample opportunity, readjustment will
be made so that the early bird gets the beef-steak. Get on the bandwagon while you still have time! Campus
Comments BASEBALL... In spite of the humiliating defeats by Duke's slugging Blue Devils, Davidson should have a fair grade baseball
season. In my opinion, considering the caliber of the 25 game schedule, we will have a successful season if we
win 10 games. Baseball has its “Grandstand Quarterbacks” and “Second Guessers” as has football and other sports. They are the
most detestable of all athletic parasites. It should be open season on them at all times. Davidson, in spite of
its wonderful spirit, is over-run with these pests. There is a standing invitation for all “Bleacher Athletes,” who are so
adept at criticism, to come out and TRY to make the ball club. In other words, DO BETTER OR SHUT
UP! It is a pity that Hicks has had to pitch his heart out in front of such lousy support.
Two losses (P. C. and Oglethorpe) were because his teammates got only two hits per game. His loss to Duke
was because, after a 5-0 lead, everything went haywire with the defense. It is interesting to note that in that
game the earned run score was Duke 8, Davidson 8. Hicks also drove in four of these runs. Did you
know that Eddie Steere won the first two games he ever pitched? A converted short stop, he pitched good ball
to down Wofford and Oglethorpe. Against Erskine, he finished the game, thus saving a victory. He has a strong arm
and good baseball sense. Hampered by sore arms, the pitching staff will probably round into shape by the few days
of rest this week. It is too bad that Hicks cannot make trips, we need him. The hitting of Sophomores
Hand and Rudisill has been gratifying. They were teammates on the Gastonia American Legion team which won the Little World
Series. Both will go a long way in baseball. WONDERING Why Davidson doesn’t make at least TWO athletic fields? The
trackmen are getting tired of dodging batted balls and our outfielders are punch-drunk from being narrowly missed by discusses and
javelins. If someone didn’t slip up when they built that grandstand in center field? What is that 25 yards behind
the stands to be used for? It would be invaluable in FRONT of them. As it is, it has ruined
what WAS the best college baseball field in North Carolina. If the student body knows that in the last five
years Duke University alone has sent 13 ball players to the big leagues. And if they know that every summer,
about twenty players from our Big Five opponents played in the Coastal Plains and Eastern Carolina Leagues last summer, as
which have turned professional this year? Is Davidson’s Simon Pure team playing big league training camps? You backed the football
team under similar conditions, why not back the baseball team? We solicit your support. CLIFFORD G “BILL” QUICK. P. S.—I
request “Teeny” Lafferty, President-elect of the Student Body, to write the next Campus Comment. Modern girls wouldn’t be heart-broken if
they never married because they have enough resources within themselves to make a successful, well-rounded life, says Dr. Jean Mendenhall
of Boston University’s college of physical education. CAMPUS CAMERA BA YORKE'S CHARTER STIPULATES THAT THERE BE ON THE BOARD OF
REGENTS “ONE FARMER, ONE WOMAN, AND ONE PERSON OF GOOD MORAL CHARACTER". ABSENT-MINDED PROFESSOR. WHO FORGOT TO WRITE A #3.50
TEXTBOOK TO SELL TO HIS CLASS SEND YOUR "HERO OF THE WEEK" OR OTHER SUITABLE MATERIAL FOR THESE CARTOONS TO:
NORM LEA- P.O. BOX 472. MADISON, WIS? GET YOUR SCHOOL REPRESENTED! SWEEPING THE CAMPUS WAY, By AL CADE This year
has been an unusually good one socially. The series of excellent dances reached a new high with Mid-Winters and Jan
Garber. None of the organizations sponsoring these affairs went in the red, which is a Good Thing. And now everyone
seems to be looking forward with anticipation to the climax of the series—Bowery Ball. Davidson's Bowery Balls are famous and
this one promises to exceed all preceding ones in spite of certain recent drastic upheavals in Pan-Hell. The council has
already remunerated itself for the anxiety and expense it encountered while putting on the other dances and promises to put
on a no-profit Bowery Ball with a good band at low tariff on May 7th and 8th. Ken Knorr, present
president of Pan-Hell, has even offered to have two tea dances, one Friday afternoon and another Saturday afternoon as was
done at Mid-Winters, if the cash customers will attend the Friday tea dance at no advance in price. What do
you think of it? If you will go to the Friday afternoon one and prevent its being a flop, another
one will be added. Make your wishes known to Ken or some other member of the Council. These are your
dances, not the Council's or any one group's, and you pay for them, so make your wishes known as to
the number of dances and the orchestra which might be obtainable. And the largest issue of Scripts 'n Pranks yet
printed will be coming out before many weeks — the last issue. All contributions will be gratefully received by editor
Hal Overton, who is trying to make this last issue the best ever. And speaking of Scripts 'n Pranks, an
incident occurred not long ago which smelled rather loudly—the beauty contest. At least three of the winners were either sponsored
by one or more of the judges or closely connected to them. And this isn’t sour grapes because we didn’t
hand in a picture. ButWe swore to mention it if it weren’t vetoed, and it wasn’t. Centennial number. The boys
have been unusually quiet about their various spring holidays, so they must have been unusually exciting. The Goofs Cooke, Flem
Ganier, Wilson Northcross, Elmore Holt, and Smoothie Doolie went to Florida for a little beach combing at Ormond Beach. The
notorious Pinky-Puss chaperoned his family to Miami, but Burdine’s was not as attractive as Efird’s. And George Norfleet, Billy Hill,
Biscoe Howell, and Charlie Elder went to Miami and the dog tracks. Dave Sellars and Ed Armfield and others chased
porpoises at Myrtle Beach and were chased. And why did Brad Reed, who was supposed to get off the bus
at Richmond, go on to Washington? And Gildersleeve renewed an old platonic friendship. True-Blue Covington stopped at Macon on the
tennis trip and now is neither true nor blue, according to Crouchface Corbin. Alton Cates went to New York and
the theater with three Maxwell Anderson dramas currently running. George Mathis, Tom Crich- ton, and Hayseed Thomas went to N.Y.
also for a little acting. Needle-Nose Breeden, Jack Branch, and Foxy Tonnison went to Washington and the Gaiety. Joseph Whatasnozzle
Hunter, Andy Turner, Bill McLean, Rey Cooper, Nicholas, and Bailey Williams went to Camden for the races, but Jake (Three
Camera) Houston was the one in there. Dick Johnson, Herm Clark, and Peabody went to White Lake for an alligator
hunt. Bobby Florence went to Texas for a rest cure. Johnny Allen went to Brenau and Charlie Luther to Converse
where Harper Beall is fourth. Stewart Oglesby rides in pajamas because they're cooler. Coot Gladden and Bob Abell went to
Chester and Bob's fur coat at Camden. Gene Vogler is a trusty at Randolph-Macon. And Walt Dickson was pledged to
A.D. Pi. Pete Marchant broke a record to Greenville. H. Lutz and Lem Kornegay went nutty in Hickory. Bob Nichols
went to sleep standing up. Swifty Ryburn and Sweet Sue in chapel. Joe Kellam is freezing to death. Why do
they call Bull Dur- “Will Power?” And Johnny Lattimore’s family wants to know about his unique nickname. 'Tis a wise
father who knoweth his own child. Bill Perden went to Little Jack Little’s dance in Wilmington. This Centennial pageant we
are going to present is a Good Thing and worthy of all the support we can give it. The Seniors
have a unique distinction in being the Centennial Class. Let's all get behind this thing. What say?

Pickups From Here and There... Inspired by P. G. Wodehouse, students at Nazareth College have organized a Goon Club, which
has adopted this slogan: “A pun a day keeps your enemies away.” A six-year-old German police dog, “Monty,” attends the
hygiene classes of his master, Dr. Frank Castleman of Ohio State University. A course in amateur telescope-making, the first of
its kind in the country, is being offered by the division of general education at N.Y. University. The University of
Minnesota’s “barefoot girl,” Ingrid Larson, had to take off her shoes again. Having to forego a lifelong habit of “barefooting
it,” acquired while living in Hawaii, she wore shoes until recently when an ulcer caused by leather-rubbing developed on her
foot. Laurence Schwab of Columbia University and more recently of Broadway where he produced many big hits, is now an
associate producer at Twentieth-Century Fox. With no kingdom to offer for a horse, the tentative Riding Club at Alfred University
has disbanded because of its naglessness. Winners of the short story contest to be held at Gettysburg College in May
will share the $150 contributed for the competition by Dr. Lloyd C. Douglas, author of “Magnificent Obsession” and other best
sellers.

DAVIDSON THEATER
Thursday-Friday, April 8-9
MAYTIME—That great team, Jeanette MacDonald and Nelson Eddy are here again. They are ably assisted by John Barrymore. This is
a story of a great opera singer who married her manager out of a sense of duty and then met
the man of her life—Nelson Eddy. It tells of their struggle and their final meeting after death.

Saturday, April 10
UNDER COVER OF NIGHT—A great mystery story! Come and see what happens under the shelter of darkness.

Monday, April 12
MICHAEL STROGOFF—A story about a courier of the Russian Tsar who is innocently betrayed by his own mother. Starring Anton
Walbrook and Elizabeth Allan.

Tuesday, April 13
MIDNIGHT TAXI—Many and thrilling are the adventures of a midnight taxi driver and they are ably portrayed in this cinema.

Wednesday, April 14
WHEN’S YOUR BIRTHDAY?—Joe E. Brown as a student astrologer who sometimes forgets that the moon isn’t his home. He sports
for an amazing success. Marian Marsh is his lady love.

Stolen Thunder
By DAYMOND TURNER
Mary had an Elgin watch. She swallowed it. It’s gone. Now every time that Mary walks, time marches on!

Add Ideas—A “No Cigarette Bumming League” has been organized on the Louisiana State University campus. Members have promised not to
bum or be bummed from. Bumming of drags is permitted, however.

The college freshman sez: and the co-ed replies:
He—Honey, what pretty eyes you have.
She—The better to see you with.
He—Honey, what pretty ears you have.
She—The better to hear you with.
He—Sweetheart, what a pretty neck you have?
Then for no reason at all she slaps him.

Let’s Try This—Counting sheep has long been a highly touted method used by confirmed somnambulists for dropping off to sleep.
Now law students at Ohio State University count words of lectures for the opposite reason—to stay awake. The driest lectures
have the students' closest attention—all because they make bets on how many times the professor will use certain common words
such as “the,” “or,” and “however.”

Slogan for a pleasant evening: Sofa and no father.

Mrs. Jones—I can write my name in the dust on the piano keys.
Servant—Lor’, Mum, ain’t education a wonderful thing!

Advice to Our Caddies—Sign on a Scotch golf course: “Members will kindly refrain from picking up lost golf balls until
they have stopped rolling.”

Can anyone remember way back when an automobile parked and people got out?

Apologies to Tennyson—
Half an inch, half an inch onward.
Into the seething mass danced the six hundred.
Couples to the right of them, couples to the left of them
All over their insteps stumbled and blundered.
Theirs not to halt or fly, theirs but to dance or die,
Theirs not to reason why, but gosh! how we've wondered.

Another Famous Poem—
Drink to me only with thine eyes,
My darling little elf.
I have a half pint on my hip,
And I want it all myself.

Now that we're all more or less rested up from the holidays, we still have a little left to look
forward to before vacation rolls around, namely fraternity house parties and the Bowery Ball. Don’t know just why they call
it “Bowery” Ball; that’s almost as far-fetched as Junior “Speaking.” Nobody wears clothes reminiscent of the Bowery; Bedlam Ball would
come nearer to hitting it. Or Morganton Merrymaking. Anyway, we predict that there will be at least three boys in
red flannel underwear, six with suits on backwards, and several dozen with hats too small for them. It never fails.

They tell me that men are considered brave and fine if they are willing merely to die for the land
of their birth. With a rueful glance at a useless limb, I laugh at such a trifling sacrifice. The real
heroes, my friends, are the ones who cheerfully submit to a typhoid shot to make the world safe for democracy.
Take a look at that left arm. See that big red spot that looks like a map of Ohio? That’s
patriotism for you! Next time I think I'll just take the fever and let the serum go. Rather be shot
with a gun than a needle any day. You don’t see the bullet coming.

What with the Masquers beginning rehearsal on “The Bishop Misbehaves” and this home-talent production we heard so much about in
chapel Saturday getting under way, Davidson is taking on the aspect of an eastern Hollywood. Everybody you pass on the
campus is either cultivating a Barrymore profile or nursing a Chaplin mustache. By the way, the Masquers’ project ought to
be the berries; that is, unless the censors get to it before the audience does. Some of the lines are
swell. Ought to be easy to find somebody to play the Bishop. We've got a campus full of masterful misbehavers.

Too bad the only good local fire in five years had to happen while most of the student body was
away from the campus. Funny how these things go in groups. Seems the local fire department was over on Mill
Hill trying to put out another fire when the main one started, and that while the Mooresville department was on
its way over to lend a helping hand, a fire broke out in that neighboring metropolis. And, while this is
a bit too much for my suspicious mind, that while the Salisbury truck was on its way to help out
in Mooresville, a fire broke out in Salisbury too. Statesville hasn’t as yet been heard from, and there wasn’t even
any smoke in Greensboro.

The College suffered a great loss in the sudden passing of Dr. Thomas W. Lingle. He was one of the
most learned men of the nation and he will be missed. The approaching R.O.T.C. inspection will be something new to
Davidson soldiers. An entire battle, with the exception of the usual corpses, will be staged on the golf course. One
can’t help wondering just what has become of the clock given by the Class of '36. April wasn’t long in
giving Davidson a sample of its justly-famed showers; where I come from we call that kind “rain.”

It is planned to present short dramatizations of significant events out of Davidson’s history on the college radio programs during
the weeks that remain before the Commencement celebration. We suggest that those who prepare these sketches don’t overlook the water
fights between Georgia and Watts that were, until civilization hit the campus this year, important phases of our campus life.
True, the sound effects for such a program might sound too much like rippling rhythm, but so much water falls
on our campus that we couldn’t let a little thing like that stand in our way. And what if we
did get sued for it? It feels good to get a new suit now and then.
