Page Four THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, DEC. 8, 1937. Winter Sports Schedule Announced Sports Afield Quintet Opens Season Monday BY BILL MARQUESS Last week Felix expressed his extreme satisfaction at the election of Dave Warden to the captaincy of the football team. Quiet, reserved, and modest, Dave's teammates respect him highly, and we are confident that next year's team will not lack a capable leader.

Flank Problem Coach McEver may have quite a problem about the flanks next fall. Footsie Cowan will undoubtedly get the call at one flank, but the other starter seems doubtful. It might be Bob McClellan, who may be shifted back to this position. Bob played end on his freshman team, but last year there was a wealth of flankmen and he showed so much promise as a blocker that he was moved into the backfield. With the loss of the redoubtable Purdy, there will be a big hole to fill in the center of the line. Bob Abell and Horace McCall from this year’s reserves will fight it out with Bill Snelling, who has been starring on the frosh team, and it is not at all inconceivable that the sophomore will get the call.

Dave Warden To Lead Wildcats Ball Season Closes, Two Deadlocked Phi Delts and Phi Gams Tie For Interfraternity Football Title

Flake “Red” Laird, popular Davidson mentor, will handle the frosh cage team this year. Laird is Varsity baseball coach and assistant football coach.

Phi Delts and Phi Gams were deadlocked for the interfraternity football title. The Phi Delts were setback by the Kappa Sigs, but the Phi Gams kept the title race tight by winning their game. 

Badminton Two rounds of the “round-robin” intra-fraternity badminton tournament have been played off as this paper went to press. Six rounds are to be played before the champion is named. In the first match, a fast team led by Bronston Kenney put the Pi Kappa Phi's back in two straight matches. Immediately following this match, the Kappa-Sigs won their game in straight sets, the score ending 2 to 0. The following day, the S.A.E.'s defeated the Phi Delts, led by Shepard, by winning 2 to 1. The Phi Gams then licked the Sig Eps in the next match, by winning the first two sets. This ended the first round. In the second round, the Betas won 2-1. The Phi Gams then won the second game of the tourney by setting the Phi Delts back, 2-1. In the final matches, which were played off Monday, the Kappa Sigs won their second game of the tournament by setting the S.A.E.'s back in straight sets, 2-0. Immediately following this match, the K.A’s also stayed among the undefeated ranks by whipping a Pika team, 2-1. Bronston Kenney, with his smashing overhead game, proved to be a little too much for the Pika stalwarts.

Shepard Holds Cage Practice Coach Shepard has been working strenuously during the past week to get the team in shape for their two pre-Christmas engagements, with College of Charleston and Guilford. Both contests will be played on the Davidson court. Arrangements have been completed for the Guilford game before the Christmas holidays. Davidson will tangle with the Duke team in Winston-Salem and then return for the Charlotte clash with the University of North Carolina White Phantoms on January 8. To date, Coach Shepard has been running a first string composed of Ned Iverson, high scorer for last year’s quintet, Dan Iverson, captain of last year’s “B” team, “Footsie” Cowan, towering transfer from Mars Hill, Johnny Tice, junior letterman and smallest player in the squad, and J. D. Hicks, varsity center of last year's team. However, no positions are definitely clinched.

CAROLINA THEATRE Mooresville, N. C. Thurs.-Fri. Dec. 9-10 “Blond Trouble” Johnny Downs - Eleanor Whitney Mon.-Tues. Dec. 13-14 “All Yours” Madeline Carroll - Francis Lederer - Mischa Auer

Davidson's rapidly developing soccer team dropped a close game 1 to 0 last Thursday to Clemson’s strong eleven on the campus of the South Carolina school, and tied the same team 3 to 3 in a return engagement played here last Friday. In the return engagement, the Davidson team led the visitors throughout the first three quarters only to yield the tying point. The ‘Cats got off to a whirlwind start to score two goals within the first few minutes of play. Tommy Harnsberger tallied first for Davidson.to the last minute of play. Eidson, with a beautiful 30-yard kick Thursday, led by Player-Coach that bisected the uprights, and a few minutes later Dick Gammon sent the ball through the goal again to give the “Cats what appeared to be a comfortable lead. However, the visitors scored once in the second and then again in the third period to knot the score. Then for the second time of the afternoon, the Davidson booters took the lead on a neat kick by Oscar Armstrong. From this point, the game rocked along with both teams failing to score until late in the last quarter when the Tigers tied the score, 3 to 3.

Winter Sports Schedule

Dec. 13—Varsity basketball—College of Charleston, there.
Dec. 15—Varsity wrestling—High Point Y, here.
Dec. 16—Varsity basketball—Guilford, here (pending).
Jan. 5—Varsity basketball—Duke, there.
Jan. 8—Varsity basketball—College of Charleston, here.
Jan. 9—Varsity and Frosh basketball—U. N. C. at Charlotte.
Jan. 11—Varsity basketball—S. C., here.
Jan. 12—Frosh basketball—Central High at Charlotte.
Jan. 13—Varsity basketball—South Carolina, there.
Jan. 15—Varsity wrestling—Duke at Durham; Frosh basketball—Belmont High at Davidson; Frosh wrestling—Barium Springs, there.
Jan. 17—Varsity and Frosh basketball—State, here.
Jan. 19—Varsity wrestling—Winston-Salem Y, here.
Feb. 3—Frosh basketball—Darlington, here (pending).
Feb. 4—Varsity basketball—Citadel, here.
Feb. 5—Frosh basketball—Ga. Military Academy, here; Varsity and Frosh wrestling—V.P.I., there.
Feb. 8—Varsity and Frosh basketball—Duke, there.
Feb. 9—Varsity and Frosh basketball—U. N. C., there.
Feb. 12—Varsity and Frosh wrestling—U. N. C., here.
Feb. 14—Varsity and Frosh basketball—Wake Forest, there.
Feb. 15—Varsity and Frosh basketball—N. C. State, there.
Feb. 19—Varsity basketball—Citadel, there; Varsity and Frosh wrestling—State, there; Frosh basketball—Belmont Abbey, here.
Feb. 21—Varsity basketball—Clemson, here.
Feb. 24—Varsity basketball—South Carolina, there.
Feb. 26—Varsity basketball—Furman, here; Varsity wrestling—V. M. I., there; Frosh wrestling—Barium Springs, here.
Feb. 28—Varsity and Frosh basketball—Wake Forest, here.

NEW NAMES FOR DANCES
(Continued from Page 3)
they drinking? Why, milk, of course. What else would a self-respecting Davidson student consider? The supply of milk at “The Tavern” was completely exhausted before midnight, as it was at the three nearest drug stores. It is rumored that because of the great demand for milk, milk, and more milk, the college is contemplating the installation of a dairy with milk served on tap. Here's hoping...

What a World, to be Sure!
Now here come the holidays, piling right in on us, and everybody feels more than the usual need of an occasional change of background and a comfortable loosening-up of tensions. Let us remind you—casually, like this—of how nice The Tavern fits that prescription; of how good its food is, and how low its prices are! We don’t have to remind you (we hope) that Davidsonians are always welcome here, and are always expected!

HOTEL CHARLOTTE

In the closing minutes of the game—
All-Frat Team
Doe Newton

This is the all-interfraternity football team as selected by the officials of the tournament, Dan Iverson and Junior Alcorn.

FIRST TEAM
End—Gene Ganier, Phi Gam
End—Elie Ganier, Phi Gam
Guard—Rut Miller, Phi Gam
Center—Charlie Yates, Kap Sig
Guard—B. Scarborough, Phi Delt
End—Tom Casali, Sig Ep
Back—B. Kiesewetter, Phi Gam
Back—Lock Hunter, Phi Delt
Back—Jimmy Hogg, Kap Sig
Back—Bull Durham, Pika

SECOND TEAM
End—Lee Ogburn, Phi Delt
Guard—B. Royster, TAT
Center—Jim Wilson, Pi Kap Phi
Guard—Brent Greene, Phi Delt
End—Lee Ogburn, Phi Delt
Back—Charley Sample, Sig Ep
Back—Jim Thomas, S.A.E.
Back—W. Barrow, Kappa Sig
Back—L. Reid, Phi Gam

Wrestlers In Mat Practice

The Davidson Varsity wrestling team will open the current season meeting the Winston-Salem “Y” team at Davidson on the fifteenth of this month.

Five lettermen from last year’s fine team return to form the nucleus around which the team will be built. Captain Howard McFayden in the unlimited division heads this list; others are Blue, 118; Lowrance, 126; Fort, 155; and Ellis, 165. Davidson’s first Big Five meet is with Duke.

BOWLING

REX RECREATION
—and—
20th CENTURY BOWLING
AIR-CONDITIONED YEAR ROUND
FREE TELEPHONE

TODAY’S POPULAR SPORT IS BOWLING!
On Saturday Nights—or any other night—take her out to bowl. She’ll like that! Take her where she’ll feel at home.

THE CHARLOTTE BOWLING CENTER
112 W. First St.
—and—
THE HEALTH CENTER
12114 South Tryon

Market forecasting isn’t our long suit... but Varsity-Towns are! So, with much confidence, we give you a very straight tip: buy the coat that'll pay you big style dividends. Buy “Drapertown Double.” You can check its assets yourself... three buttons—two-to-button, full-chested lounge construction, horizontal lapels. “Drapertown Double” TROUSERS TAILORED WITH TALON TAYE.

BELK BROS. CO., COLLEGE SHOP—THIRD FLOOR

PAUL & CRYMES, Inc.
- - Sporting Goods - -
415 South Tryon St.
Charlotte, N. C.