WEDNESDAY, APRIL 14, 1937

THE DAVIDSONIAN

New Words Written For College Song ‘O Davidson’ Composed By E. H. Hamilton For Use in the Centennial Program

WRITTEN ON TRAIN

College Journalists Will Hold Semi-Annual Session

REV. MR. WILLIAMSON SPEAKER IN VESPERS, TO BE MADE DIRECT DESCENDANTS OF FOUNDER

Convention To Be In High Point

The As-You-Like-It Club met at the home of Mrs. W. O. Sample on Thursday evening. Mrs. H. B. Arbuckle read a very interesting paper.

Miss Stella Johnston was selected salutatorian of the Davidson High School graduating class.

Miss Shirley Parker is valedictorian, and Mrs. Sarah Garth and her three children are visiting in Davidson at the home of her mother, Mrs. T. W. Lingle.

“O Davidson,” the famed song of the college, has recently been revised. E. H. Hamilton, who wrote the words for the song in its present form, now offers new words which fit the tune. Hamilton, who is now a missionary in China, was recently requested to write new words for the famed tune, which in its present form is not suited for Centennial use but only for the battle song at a football game.

Mr. Hamilton recently sent the words to the college, in care of the library, where they are now on display. Mr. Hamilton states in his letter to Professor Chalmers Davidson that he wrote the words while on a long train trip. Mr. Hamilton also told how he and Mr. Shields, both from the class of '17, wrote the piece in its present form. In the year of 1916-17, the college offered a prize of a tennis racquet to the composers of the best school song. Mr. Hamilton told Mr. Shields that if he would write the music then he (Hamilton) would write the words and they would win the prize. They won the racquet, then sold it and divided the spoils.

Soon after the song was written, the copyrights were stolen by some “buccaneers” from New York, who tried to keep the song from being played.

The words for the new “O Davidson” are as follows:

O Davidson, with pride we see thy glory of a century,
Thy Noble sons all have heard thy clear call to live for light and liberty;
“Alexenda Lux ubi orta Libertas”
We too now promise thee with all our might:

Chorus:
O Davidson, we will live now, live for God and Thee,
Davidson, we will make the world a better place to be;
Fight for the right now until the right has won,
Live for the Honor of Old Davidson.

O Davidson, we do not dread the century that lies ahead,
Though men are failing, and hearts are quailing, just as though all hope has fled;
Thy sons will be all true to thee,
And thru darkness cast their light,
Davidson, we all will live for God and right.

College journalists will convene for the thirty-fifth semi-annual convention of the N. C. Collegiate Press Association in High Point on April 22-24, it was announced by James W. Mason, president of the association.

Delegates from practically every college publication in the state are expected to attend. Editors and business managers of college newspapers, magazines, and annuals are expected to number 100 and will be the principal delegates to attend.

Host for the convention is W. W. Weisner of High Point College and he has announced that the Sheraton Hotel will be headquarters during the weekend. At present, Richard Vowles, news editor of the Davidsonian, and Hoke Robinson, its business manager, are the Davidson delegates who expect to attend the convention. Other publications mentioned are from Davidson.

The Civic Club held a silver tea on Tuesday afternoon from four to five o'clock in the Civic Club Hall.

Mrs. Fred Hartness gave a tea at her home on Wednesday afternoon in honor of Mrs. W. S. Wilson who, with her husband, has recently moved to Davidson from Lincolnton.

The Twentieth Century Club met on Friday afternoon at the home of Mrs. W. E. Stough. Mrs. Ernest Beaty gave an interesting review of the book “Goethe.”

Mrs. Thane McDonald entertained at tea for Miss Doris McDonald at her home on Thursday afternoon. Miss McDonald is the sister of Prof. McDonald and is from Ann Arbor, Mich.

Miss Emma Beckman, sister of Mrs. G. R. Vowles, returned to her home in Morehead, Minn., Thursday after having visited in Davidson for several weeks.

Misses Dorothy Johnston and Elizabeth Shewmake are spending their spring holidays with their parents in Davidson. Both girls attend the University of North Carolina.

Dr. Egbert W. Smith, outstanding and widely known leader in the Southern Presbyterian Church, will conduct the vesper service on Sunday evening, April 19. Dr. Smith, who is a personal friend of many Davidson alumni, was appointed to a lecture on Rhodes Scholarships.

The Rev. Mr. Williamson, of the Davidson College Theological Seminary in Richmond, Va., used as his text at the regular Vesper services Sunday night, the fourth chapter, sixth verse of Second Corinthians. He cited instances which bring out the character of Christ by the expressions on His face in numerous Bible incidents.

The Rev. Williamson cited several instances in the Bible which bring out the character of Jesus Christ. He pointed out several different expressions on the face of Jesus. The first expression cited was that of anger, as shown in Mark 5:1. This is the only picture of Jesus with such an expression of anger. He put forth the question: “Do we ever catch this look on the Master's face, when we do those things that would make Christ look at us that way?”

The second expression was that of love as pictured in Mark, 10:21, when Christ was looking at a young man who came to ask His advice. He stated that Christ would look at each person with a face of love if we would only be better.APPLICATIONS Must Be in Registrar’s Office By Saturday, April Seventeenth

Applications are now being received for Student Assistantships, according to F. W. Hengeveld, Registrar. These applications should be made in writing to the registrar’s office not later than Saturday, April 17th. Elections will take place in the early part of May, and it is hoped that definite notifications of the appointments for the session 1937-38 will be mailed out before the beginning of the spring examination period. This refers to all assistantships which include departmental assistantships, assistants to the librarian, monitors, and absence recorders. Many students are aided by working as assistants each year. Usually, these men excel in the department in which they seek the assistantship.

The founding of Davidson College and its Centennial celebration this June will be established by the Hall family. James Davidson Hall, one of the early founders, has two sons, Frank P. Hall and the Rev. J. K. Hall, both of the class of ’87, who expect to be present at the hundredth anniversary of the college. Born near Statesville, March 17, 1806, he was a son of sturdy Scotch-Irish ancestry. His great-grandfather was one of the many Presbyterians who came from North Ireland to America during the first half of the eighteenth century. More than sixty of his direct descendants entered the Presbyterian ministry. Three attained distinction in being elected moderator of the General Assembly of the Presbyterian Church in the United States: his son, James Hall, D.D.; his great-great-grandson, William Thomas Hall, D.D.; and Judge Allen G. Hall, of Nashville, Tenn.

College Career

Young Hall entered the junior class of the University of North Carolina in 1826, and two years later was graduated with second highest honors. After teaching two years in Washington, N. C., he entered Union Theological Seminary in Richmond, from which he was graduated in 1833. He was ordained evangelist by Orange Presbytery and two years later became pastor of Thyatira and Franklin churches in Rowan County. It was during his pastorate at these churches that he, along with others, saw the need of an institution of higher learning. This vision materialized into Davidson College.

Married Life

Married three times, his first wife, a Miss Brandon, lived only a short time after the birth of a son, William Thomas Hall. It was this boy who later rose to such an influential position in the church.

(Continued on Page 6)

NEW OFFICERS

Faculty Members’ Sons Predominate in Hi-Y Election

New officers were elected for the Davidson Hi-Y Club at their last meeting on Monday evening, April 12. The meeting was held in the home of Mr. F. L. Jackson. The new officers were as follows: Bill Wood was elected president to succeed Ed Jackson. Thomas Withers was elected first vice president succeeding Ed Shewmake; Robert Church was chosen as second vice president. As secretary, the club elected Jimmy Fulcher to replace Marian Foreman. Kenneth Cole was elected treasurer to succeed Bill Wood. The new officers will take charge of their duties at the next meeting and will serve as officers for the entire year.

The Hi-Y Club, sponsored by the Davidson College Y. M. C. A., is affiliated with the International Hi-Y movement and its purpose is primarily to foster and encourage high standards of Christian character. In order to accomplish this purpose, the club has as its motto and rule the four-fold platform: Clean Speech, Clean Sports, Clean Scholarship, and Clean Living. The membership of the club is limited to high school boys and since its founding some years ago has done much for the youth of America. It has grown from a few founders into a thriving organization with thousands of members in all parts of the country. So great has been its success that movements are on foot to form chapters for girls in some schools.

Him—Dearest, I want you to marry me.
His—But have you seen my father?
Him—Yes, many times, but I love you just the same.

COLONIAL RIDING ACADEMY
JOE CRAIG, Manager
Eighteen Horses
A Well-Marked Bridle Trail
RATES: 75c per hour during week
$1.00 per hour on Sundays
Four Miles Beyond Huntersville—on Charlotte Road

CARS FOR RENT
M. P. Henderson
GULF GAS & OIL

PATRONIZE DAVIDSON’S 5c & 10c STORE
SOUTHERN 5 & 10c Store

DESK LAMPS

Dr. Smith, a member of the faculty and student body, will also speak at the morning worship at the Davidson Presbyterian Church. Dr. Smith is a native of North Carolina, born at Greensboro, and is a graduate of Davidson College, finishing here in 1882. He graduated from the Union Theological Seminary in 1886 and was immediately ordained into the ministry. Eight years later, Davidson College conferred on him the degree of Doctor of Divinity. At the turn of the century, Dr. Smith was in the midst of a twelve-year pastorate in Greensboro. He served as an active pastor for five more years at Louisville and from there was called to serve as Secretary of Foreign Missions. He has held this post for over twenty-five years—a work which has taken him to see the work of our foreign missions in all parts of the world. He is the author of five widely read books.

“Could any painter ever portray Jesus’ face?” Does the Master’s face ever show that look of charity? The Bible tells that Jesus’ face did shine as the sun. This present day might encourage all to be aged by the face of Jesus Christ. Second, day by day we might lift our eyes to the face of the Master and become more like Him.

COLUMBIA STATIONS

“Kay, what'll we give ‘em?”
“Music and Rhythm Hal, everybody loves it!”

Chesterfield
THE FIRST PRODUCT TO HOLD TWO NATIONAL RADIO AWARDS