FIVE-YEAR CONTRACT ‘DOC NEWTON ACCEPTS N. C. STATE COLLEGE AT ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA Che Mavbidsontan LIBERTAS SHOW YOUR SUPPORT FOR NAME’ BANDS AT THE MID-WINTER SET VOL. XXIV DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FEBRUARY 10, 1937 NO. 16 Doc Newton Leaves Davidson For State Berth Kk xX KK OK x kw AK OX KK eS x ow Kw x ke * MID-WINTERS FEATURE JAN GARBER AMOUS BAND PEAY FOR OUR DANGES Enthusiasm ‘Runs Rampant For Davidson’s Most Elab- orate Set ARMFIELD LEADS FIGURE Friday Tea Dance Will Be Introduced The biggest Mid-Winter dances in the history of Davidson begin Friday afternoon at 5 o’clock in the Charlotte Armory, with “Genial Jan” Garber and his orchestra providing the music. Opening with a tea dance, from five till seven, on Friday afternoon it will offer the traditional Friday night formal, from ten till two, and two informal dances, four to six and eight-thirty to twelve on Saturday. A majority of the social fraternities plan banquets in Charlotte between the two Saturday dances. Those asked to chaperon include: Mr. and Mrs. J. C. Crowell, Mr. and Mrs. T. E. Hemby, Mr. and Mrs. Aweck Jones, Mr. and Mrs. T. H. McKinney, Mr. and Mrs. J. E. Taylor, all of Charlotte; and Prof. and Mrs. E. J. Erwin, Dr. and Mrs. Frazer Hood, Dr. and Mrs. S. C. Lyons, Col. and Mrs. J. T. Rhett, Dr. and Mrs. G. R. Vowles, Prof. and Mrs. W. W. Wood, of Davidson. Outstanding feature of the Friday night dance will be the figure led by E. M. Armfield of Asheboro, president of the Council, with Miss Beda Carlson, Greensboro, and K. H. Knorr, Staunton, Va., secretary-treasurer, with Miss Lucy Anne Howard, Concord. Also in the figure will be other members of the Pan-Hellenic Council and their sponsors. One other member has been selected from each one of the nine social fraternities to participate with his date in the figure: Miss Kate Gierhart, N. Y., with John Winn, Beta Theta Pi; Miss Sarah Rice, Anderson, S. C., with Walter Dickson, Pi Kappa Alpha; Miss Martha Hall, Tampa, Fla., with John Anderson, Kappa Alpha; Miss Esta Davis, Columbia, S. C., with Hoke Robinson, Sigma Alpha Epsilon; Miss (Continued on Page 2) DR. SPARROW SPEAKS TO MEDICAL SOCIETY Charlotte Physician Gives Illustrated Lecture in Skin Grafting Dr. Thomas Sparrow of Charlotte gave a very interesting lecture to members of Alpha Epsilon Delta and a large group of attentive visitors in the faculty room at 7:30 P. M. Friday, February 5th. He was accompanied and assisted by Dr. Hunt. Dr. Sparrow’s talk was highly illustrated. The first part was on skin grafting, with slides to show how it is done. A heart was shown of a man who had drowned in his own blood. Somehow the action of the heart working against some weak cells over a long period of time forced blood into the man’s windpipe. The audience was fortunate also in having the privilege of examining ten inches of an intestine which had been cut out less than a whole day before. The former owner, a boy who had been caught in an elevator, was reported to be recuperating in Charlotte. Other specimens were exhibited and discussed. AVON HEROINE JERE, Miss Marta Kytle who led the cast of Shakespeare’s “Merchant of Venice” in the role of Portia, in the version presented by the Avon Group in Chambers Auditorium last Wednesday night. SHAKESPEAREAN PLAY GIVEN LAST WEEK BY AVON PLAYERS CAST “Merchant of Venice” Presented By Red and Black Masquers DIRECTED BY SELMAN Audience Highly Pleased With Performance On Wednesday night, Feb. 3, at 8:30 P. M., the Avon Players presented “The Merchant of Venice” in Chambers Auditorium. The performance was sponsored by the Red and Black Masquers, campus dramatic organization. The play, one of Shakespeare’s best comedies, was under the direct supervision of Joseph Selman, who also portrayed the part of the Jew, Shylock. The original manuscript was shortened, and several modern touches were given to the comedy; but for the most part the speeches of the actors adhered closely to those written by Shakespeare. Experienced Leading Lady Miss Marta Kytle, leading lady of the company, played the part of Portia. Miss Kytle was for some time a player on the stage in Chicago. However, in recent years she joined the Avon Players; and since that time she has played in several of the Shakespearean plays, among which was Romeo and Juliet. Mr. Selman comes from Canada where his grandfather was a Shakespearean actor. Going to New York, Mr. Selman acted on the stage there for some time before entering Shakespearean work. Performance Well Attended The performance was well attended by both students of the college and people of the community. The extensive applause showed that the audience was highly pleased with the production. The Avon Players limit their tours strictly to the southern states, and present their production chiefly for colleges and high schools. The company made its initial appearance this year at Brenau College, and since that time has played at other outstanding colleges in the south, among whom are the University of Florida, Agnes Scott, and Winthrop College. Students at Mount Holyoke College eat more than 1,200 loaves of bread and 5,200 rolls in one week, says Raymond Smith, college baker. MISS ADELAIDE FRIES LECTURES MON. NIGHT ON MORAVIAN CHURCH AND FAMOUS LEADERS Subject Is Centered Around Life and Work of Auguste Spangenberg AUTHOR OF MANY BOOKS Planting of Colonies in America Is Described Miss Adelaide Fries of Winston-Salem centered her lecture on The Moravian Church, Monday night in Chambers Auditorium on Auguste Gottlieb Spangenberg. Born in 1704 in Prussia near the Hartz mountains, Spangenberg was the fourth son of John Spangenberg. At sixteen he attended Jena University and received his education by correcting themes and exercises for professors. He was a Lutheran by birth, but while at the university he was influenced by Count von Zinzendorf. In 1771 Spangenberg was called to the University of Halle and was made an associate professor of theology. Because of his associations with members of the Moravian sect and his friendship with Count Zinzendorf, he was expelled from his position. Leaving Halle he journeyed to Herrnhut which was an active Moravian community established by religious exiles from Bohemia. Spangenberg came to this community and was initiated into their faith. Opposition in Halle and Germany was getting stiff, so arrangements were made to transplant colonies to America. The first big problem of Spangenberg was to organize the work in Savannah, Ga. Succeeding in this venture, he traveled to Pennsylvania where he established a settlement at Bethlehem. Next came his trip to North Carolina in which Moravians of this section are vitally interested. After many hardships Spangenberg and his friends crossed the Catawba and Yadkin rivers and arrived at a tract of land near North Wilkesboro which suited their purposes. They arranged for the purchase of about 100,000 acres, which now comprise about two-thirds of Forsyth County. In 1760, at the death of Zinzendorf, Spangenberg was called back to Europe and took charge of the work of the whole Moravian church. ANNUAL WORK IS NOW DEVELOPING RAPIDLY Baseball, Tennis, and Track Pictures Delay Athletic Section Plans for this year’s “Quips and Cranks” are well under way now. The annual photographer was here on Monday and Tuesday of this week taking informal pictures of Davidson’s faculty and the class officers of the various classes. He also took pictures of the basketball and wrestling teams while here. According to John Abernethy, editor of this year’s annual, the work on the classes has already gone to the printer, including the pictures, and write-ups on the classes. The fraternity and activity sections of the annual will be made up within the next two weeks and turned into the printer. The Athletic section will be late getting in, after April 15th, because of baseball, track and tennis pictures, which cannot be made until these sports begin. PRINCIPALS DISCUSS NEWTON’S FUTURE AT STATE DR. F. P. GRAHAM, President of North Carolina State College, “DOC” NEWTON, newly appointed State football coach, and COL. J. W. HARRELSON, Dean of State College are pictured above from left to right in a congenial conversation. The three are seen discussing plans which resulted in Newton's acceptance of a contract which called for a considerable increase in salary over the position which he held as head coach of football here at Davidson. Gene McEver Chet Chapman Made First Assistant and Head Line Coach NEWTON TO BE MISSED McEver Points toGood Season Despite Loss

Gene McEver officially has been named head football coach here, succeeding Doc Newton, who resigned to accept a similar position at North Carolina State College. Chet Chapman will be his first assistant and line coach. McEver came to Davidson five years ago as an assistant to Doc Newton, from the University of Tennessee where he had just finished a brilliant career on the team at the same university. He played in the backfield for three years and gained national recognition in 1930 and 1931 when he made several All-American selections throughout the country. Since his stay at Davidson, he has acted as a backfield coach and first assistant to Doc Newton. He has made an impressive record here and also is well liked by the student body. McEver could not be reached for an interview as this paper went to press.

New Head Football Coach Selected

Chap Is Assistant

Chet Chapman will be McEver’s first assistant and line coach. Chapman acted in that capacity for the last two years and he also has made an impressive showing. He was offered a position to go along with Newton, but the advancement here pleased him enough to stay. He is also the freshman basketball coach here. Chapman came here from Bowling Green University in Ohio. He played on that institution’s football team and made many all-state selections in that state. He is reputed to have made three different selections. When interviewed Chapman stated, “Of course we will miss Doc next year, but we will be in there fighting and trying to have another good season. McEver will make a fine head coach and if things turn out right Davidson will be well represented on the gridiron next year.” Spring training has already been started here and McEver points to another good season even with the loss of Doc Newton.

COLLEGE TREASURER PROPOSES NEW PLAN

Jackson Says That Damage Fee Out of Date and No Longer Needed

STUDENT BODY AGREES

Urges Economy in Use of Lights and Water

Mr. F. L. Jackson, college treasurer, appeared before the student body Thursday morning during the chapel period to get its reaction to a proposed plan which would strike the damage deposit from the regular list of entrance fees. Mr. Jackson explained that although the deposit had been taken for more than a quarter of a century the college would like to do away with it, and that it might be possible to do so if the students would pledge themselves to act always as becomes good college citizens in the preservation of property. The college, he said, would accept as inevitable the wear and tear on the buildings caused by the use of them by six hundred boys, any general breakage and damage while still holding each student answerable.

(Continued on Page 2)

“Le Cercle Francais” has announced the sponsorship of a contest, in which cash prizes will be offered for the two best essays in French on the topic of “Peter Stuart Ney and The Davidson College Seal.” The conditions of this contest are as follows: First, the contest is opened to all members of the Davidson student body; second, all essays shall be entitled “Peter Stuart Ney et le Sceau de Davidson College”; third, the papers shall be submitted on or before April 10, 1937; fourth, cash prizes of ten and five dollars will be awarded; fifth, to ensure fairness to all contestants, the essays will be submitted in accordance with the ancient custom of the Jeux Floraux (Floral Games) of Toulouse, as follows: Papers will not be signed with the contestant's name, but with a rubrique, or heading in French, chosen by the writer (for example, Liberté, Fraternité, Egalité); a sealed envelope containing the writer’s name shall bear on the outside the writer’s rubrique, and the prizes will be awarded publicly, the winner’s name being learned on opening the envelopes; sixth, the essays must be typed double spaced; seventh, all essays will be judged for accuracy in content and in syntax, and for style; eighth, a complete bibliography of the reference works which were consulted must be submitted; ninth, the essays can have only a minimum of 1500 words, and a maximum of 2500 words; and tenth, the essays and sealed envelopes must be deposited in either the letter box of Dr. Goldiere or that of Dr. Watts.

The college library is well equipped to furnish material for the contestants, as there are many books on Peter Stuart Ney and Marshall Ney. A particularly important work is the volume containing notations made by Peter Ney. Also, Dr. Walter L. Lingle has graciously put to the disposal of the contestants a New Testament in French, which was formerly owned by his uncle. This volume was autographed by Peter Stuart Ney and contains notations in his handwriting. All those planning to submit essays should see the president of “Le Cercle Francais,” John Winn, or the professors of French for further suggestions and instructions.

CLUB TO PRESENT PLAY

Since the distinguished and mysterious French gentleman, Peter Stuart Ney, designed the Davidson College seal and had other contacts during the first years of its existence, “Le Cercle Francais” will feature this year his services to the college. During the public performances, which “Le Cercle” will stage at Coker College, Hartsville, S. C., on February 22nd, and at Converse College, Spartanburg, S. C., on March 9th, they plan to present a historical episode representing the drafting of the seal by this illustrious Frenchman.

COACH NAMED AS SUCCESSOR FOR ANDERSON

Wildcat Teams Have Made Brilliant Record Under Newton in Past

CHAPMAN IS PROMOTED

N. C. State Athletics Precipitate Heated Dispute

William (Doc) Newton, for the last five years head football coach here, signed a five-year contract last Friday, February 5, as head gridiron mentor at North Carolina State College. Newton will succeed Heartly (Hunk) Anderson whose five-year contract ended last December 31. Anderson’s contract was not renewed. Newton's acceptance of the college’s terms was made public by Col. J. W. Harrelson, dean of the administration at State. Bob Warren, freshman coach at the same institution, will now be Newton's first assistant.

South Carolina Graduate

Newton, a native of Thomasville, N. C., and a graduate of the University of South Carolina, where he played end, came to Davidson in 1932. Before that he had been a professional baseball pitcher, football coach at Birmingham-Southern and Howard at Birmingham, and a member for a year of Major Bob Newland’s staff at the University of Tennessee. Doc has been coaching for a total of 12 years. Aside from his gridiron achievements, Newton gained national recognition as a baseball coach in 1935, when he directed the Gastonia team to a national championship in the finals of the American Legion junior tournament. He did not, however, coach baseball here.

Impressive Record

During his five-year reign here at Davidson, Newton has made an impressive record. He was highly praised by the Alumni and Students of the college for his good work on the gridiron. He succeeded Coaches Monk Younger and Tex Tilson in 1932 and since that time he has put out five good football teams. He has a total of 23 wins, 17 losses, and five ties during his tenure.

(Continued on Page 2)

DAVIDSON COLLEGE IS ON THE AIR TUESDAYS

Symphonic Band Inaugurates New Series of Weekly Broadcasts

“Davidson College is on the air!” The College Symphonic Band, under the baton of James Christian Pfohl, inaugurated a new series of weekly broadcasts over Station WBT, Charlotte, last night with a musical program from Chambers Auditorium. The programs this year are under the direct supervision of Conrad Frederick Smith, director of publicity and alumni-secretary of Davidson College, and are announced by Wilbur Edwards, president of the student body. Tyler Port, of the Forensic Council, will present a brief summary of campus news each week.

The highlight of last evening’s program was Mr. Smith’s interview with Dr. Walter L. Lingle, president of Davidson College, on the plans and program for the college’s Centennial. Dr. Lingle pointed out the two-fold purpose of the Centennial program: the celebration in a suitable way of the hundredth anniversary of the founding of Davidson College, and the bringing before the public of Davidson’s material needs for her second century of service.