_Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, MAY 5, 1937_

The Davidsonian
Founded By the Class of 1915

1936 Member 1937
Associated Collegiate Press
Distributors of Collegiate Digest

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON Ave. NEW YORK, N.Y.
CHICAGO - BOSTON - SAN FRANCISCO
LOS ANGELES - PORTLAND - SEATTLE

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879

Editor-in-Chief
DICK VOWLES

Business Manager
R. H. ROBINSON

EDITORIAL STAFF
Managing Editor
Ovid Bell

Joe Calvin
Wesley Coghill
Verrell Vorter
Perry Sloan
Til Marquess
Owen Conke
Sam Cothran
Euclid Fant
Wector McGeachy
Yates Faison
Sam Kyburn
Henry Baker

BUSINESS STAFF
Wilson Lowrance
Ralph Chandler
Charles Moore
J. M. Hatt
J. J. Hill

Circulation Manager
Circulation Manager
Collection Manager
Advertising Manager
Asst. Business Manager

It is worth a thousand pounds a year to have the habit of looking on the bright side of things.
—Dr. Johnson.

We express our sincerest sympathies to Dick Melchor, in the recent loss of his father, Mr. H. L. Melchor.

OPEN HOUSE...
You Georgians and Wattsians, don't be at all surprised if your math professor or your boarding house keeper breaks into
the seclusion of your private room Thursday afternoon! It’s merely part of Mrs. Smith's excellent plan to give the faculty
and towns-people an opportunity to see what the inside of a dormitory is like. We thoroughly sympathize with Mrs. Smith's
idea, and we don't blame her for wanting to show off some of the well-kept college rooms. Let's cooperate and
give the visitors a fine impression of Davidson dormitory life. There are a lot of improvements to be made on
our part, and here's a start. Let's make our rooms neater and cleaner yet!

BRING QUEENS BACK!...
According to all reports, Queens Day was a hilarious success and “a good time was had by all.” Everything seemed
to click with precision due, not merely to the committee's efficient functioning, but to the wholehearted support of the entire
student body. And why shouldn't such a thing be repeated? Now that we know that it can be a success,
let's make it an institution. We make the motion that April 27 from now on, be known as Queens Davidson
Day!

REPLY TO FORUM...
Davidson College is widely known for the democratic spirit of its student body. Recently a non-fraternity man, believing steadfastly that
the pen is mightier than the sword, took to his typewriter and produced a biting criticism in which he cast
aspersions upon the editorial policy of The Davidsonian. In reply, we should like to point out that news is news,
regardless of whom it concerns, and that we fill our columns with that in mind. Granted, that Greeks take a
prominent place in the news, but that is only right. After all, one of the principal aims of fraternity is
the further development of qualities of leadership in its members. When a freshman is pledged by a fraternity, he is
urged to take part in as many extra-curricular activities as possible, and from that, he is able to work steadily
upward to a position of leadership.—O. I. B.

TO THE EDITOR...
The opinions expressed below are not necessarily those of the editorial staff. This is an editorial upon a subject which
has undergone lively debate in other institutions of the State. At the request of certain students, we have published this
discussion.

STAFF ELECTIONS...
Last week a suggestion was made that we might try to take publications out of campus politics, to award editorship
of this publication at least on the basis of merit, of work, ability, knowledge of the field, and ability to
get along with the staff rather than personal popularity or the influence of some political clique. As one of our
contemporaries pointed out in a similar campaign recently, the man who is conscientiously working on his publication, familiarizing himself with
its technique and its problems has little time to be running about the campus meeting people and “getting known.” The
fact that most of the more competent staff members serve on two or three publications as underclassmen further limits their
outside time. Advantages of the staff or merit system of election are obvious. Some of the most outstanding reasons for
the change: (1) the editorship of a publication is by nature a technical position. (2) The staff of a publication
is most competent to know the qualifications necessary for an editor and to judge which member of the staff has
these necessary qualifications. (3) Staff elections shift the emphasis from popularity or political backing as the primary qualification for editorship
to journalistic ability and service to the publication. (4) For the reasons above, underclassmen members of the staff would tend
to work hard, realizing that they will be graded on work and ability rather than the opinion of a group
unfamiliar with and in a large measure uninterested in their efforts. (5) Staff elections establish a reciprocal feeling of responsibility
between the editor and his staff not always possible now when the staff must accept the political choice of outside
groups. These advantages mean only one thing, they speak for themselves, a possibility for better publication.
—EX-STAFFER.

Campus Comments
Because I'm not a senior I don’t have to start worrying yet about what I'm going to do next year.
And even if I were a senior, I don't believe I'd be very worried for the simple reason that I
already know what I'm going to do when I get out of school. I'm going to found a college of
my own, and it’s as simple as that. Let me tell you about it. Down somewhere around the tropic regions
there's a little island which is called Palm Island because it is covered with palm trees. The sun never shines
on Palm Island. How could it when the languid South Sea moon glows twenty-four hours a night? There are no
mountains nor hills on the island because the whole thing is nothing but one big palm-studded beach, like Myrtle. There
are so many brown-skinned natives strumming on guitars that one has difficulty in turning over. That's where my college is
going to be located. The entrance requirements will be rather stiff, but they shouldn't worry many of the applicants. Each
boy seeking admission must bring as sufficient credentials a girl of his choosing—young, beautiful, etc. Likewise, each girl must be
accompanied by a boy—young, handsome, etc. In this way, everybody will have something to play with and the administration will
not be put to the expense of buying such oddities as footballs and baseball bats. That's really a very good
idea. Matriculation must be completed in ten years’ time because after you get old and ugly you're just as well
off at some ordinary college or university. Students will be graded every two years on such points as: natural aptitude,
practical application, proportion of subject covered, and so forth. If a student is found to be failing along these lines,
he will be expected, of course, to repeat the work in which he was delinquent. If it's a she, the
same thing goes. Each applicant for admission will be warned to bring another bathing suit besides the one he or
she is wearing. Now, I realize that very few of you Davidson men have any children as yet, but they
want to plan for them nothing but the best. Consequently, I’m giving you this opportunity to enter your kids on
the waiting list now before it’s too late. Certainly, you don’t want your child to go to some college where
they require you to go to class. The old system here at Davidson is all right for our stable generation,
but think of the future. Incidentally, we could use a few changes around here like a new library, infirmary, gym,
etc., but what we really need, what we all seem to agree that we want and absolutely must have to
help us get a thorough cultural education, is a bunch of new ideas (like mine) to renovate this place completely.
Why, haven’t we been trying for years to drill it into the heads of the administration that we must have
more amusement, better entertainment, greater things to take our minds off our work, and stuff like that? Boys, I’m going
crazy. On some days I have to go to three classes. It’s unfair. Just wait until I get a chance
to gripe about it.
—WADE BARROW.

P. S.—I request Watson Street, newly-elected freshman class advisor, to write the next Campus Comments.

Bowery Ball, for there will be a very lovely vocalist named Joan Bennett (not the future ex-Mrs. Markey) to entertain
the stags. Knorr, and the other gentle grafters seem to have made a genuine effort to give the cash customers
their money's worth and it looks as if these dances will be very enjoyable. The military figure Friday night will
be very colorful with a startling surprise promised. Everybody's going slumming Saturday night and some of the more colorful babes
are planning to be incognito by going without make-up. The tea dances will be especially good, and the Friday afternoon
dansant in particular. Let's whip over to all of them and make this final set one to be remembered.

About this course in Public Administration...
The administration seems to think it would be a Good Thing and stated it was making efforts toward offering such
a course, but there seems to be some difficulty in finding a man to teach it. Such a man, besides
fitting into the Davidson set-up, would have to be able to coach dramatics and debating. The forty-two men who signed
the petition did not sign in vain for definite efforts are being made to offer this course next year. If
you are in a position to suggest such an instructor please do so.

Vignettes of Queens Day—
Louis Hipp and Ruth Knee ankling around together; Tommy Thurston loping up late with a sheepish expression and...red smears on
his face. Hundreds of ribs milling around the date bureaus. The expressions on the faces of each blind-date when he
and she first saw each other. The choice burlesque of Shakespeare and the ex- All in all it was very
interesting and instructive and it is hoped it will be continued. Queens retaliated by inviting some of the boys over
for Junior-Seniors. John MacRayer, Holmes Hansel, Acy Warlick, Bill Broadway, Hervey Ross, Charlie Crane, Charles Bixler, Watson Street, Pinkney Stowe,
Tiger Terry, Preston Lincoln, and others dined with the Queens. And the K.A’s party at Roaring Gap with Fred Dennis
pulling a Hairbreadth Harry when Polk Moffett and date turned the canoe over. The mugg-bug bit Worth Sprunt and Dick
Taylor wishes to announce that he is not married. The Lafferty trilogy had their true loves on the Pika house-party
and Teeny has hayfever. Why is Charlie Raynall called “Strong-Puss?” The Y cabinet threw a houseparty at Montreat. Ken Scott
was on the defensive most of the time, Wade Boggs wanted to be alone, and Boo Walker got the long
end of the wishbone. Perry Sloan and Frank Willingham to Duke where the Greek gold situation is terrific but finally
got dates but Frank still had a flat tire. Stagedoor-Johnny Hemphill. How did Cooper Adams get from Cornelius when he
hopped off the bus there? Gib Smith to Sweet May Frolic and Snooks. This looked up and there was Wrightsville.
Yates Faison and Ray Pittman to Pinehurst for golf. The Goof found Greensboro kind of empty but George Jones found
June in May. Bob Stewart and Stew Barnes playing around Cotton and fixing things up for the Bowery. And you
can make up your own jingle about Hinson Maples going with the lineman's daughter. Sid Armfield in jam session at
roadhouse. Dan Iverson and John Doty milling around at Winthrop. Phil Friberg the victim of bites. Tiger Jim raked over
the coals by the Queens Blues. Nose Hunter's date not running on schedule and Booby is way down in the
dumps. Jim Wilson, Dunny Covington, Dave King, Rev. Cooper, C-Face Corbin, Sonny Moore, and Dick Vowill to King’s Mountain for
houseparty and one of the first midnight swims of the season. Let's give Horace Greeley a Southern accent and “Go
South, young man, go South” meaning the Armory and Bowery Ball Friday and Saturday. And don't forget that Sunday is
Mother's Day. That's all. There isn’t any more. Lucky you!

Briar for Slug Marcel dope

DAVIDSON THEATER
Thursday, May 6
Mysterious Crossing—An exciting murder mystery with the love interest furnished by James Dunn and Jean Rogers.
Friday, May 7
Breezing Home—William Gargan, Binnie Barnes, and Wendy Barrie in a story of the race track. The plot develops around a
night club singer and a society girl who fall in love with a horse trainer.
Saturday, May 8
Flying Hostess—A tense drama in the air with Judith Barrett, a passenger plane hostess, falling in love with William Gargan.
Mon.-Tues. May 10-11
She’s Dangerous—Tala Birell and Cesar Romero in a daring love story of a girl whose kisses were packed with dynamite.
Wednesday, May 12
Make Way For Tomorrow—An interesting picture with the setting in the center of city life.

PRIZE POEM BY MRS. WILLIAMS
(Below is one stanza of the poem which won state prize for wife of Business Professor).

THE TEACHER
What scroll shall tell the teacher's honest worth,
Or find the certain measure of his meed?
He takes his valiant stand upon the earth,
And serves with selfless love the children’s need.
He battles darkness and its subtle art,
He wakes the sleeping spirit, quiets fears.
He lights a candle in a questing heart,
Rejoicing in its gleam in after years,
He keeps the faith. He patiently explores
The minds whose burgeoned promise he believed.
He shares his joy in knowledge, opens doors
On far horizons yet to be achieved.
Not fame nor fortune his, but this his fee,
His purpose and reward: the child set free.
—Mrs. J. P. Williams.

BEVY OF “FEMMES” AT POMONA COLLEGE
And speaking about college pictures. Warner Bros. have started shooting on “Varsity Show.” For the real McCoy locale they are
shooting some scenes at Pomona College, near Hollywood.

STOLEN THUNDER
Bowery Ball-24
Our favorite band... our favorite whirl... our favorite brand... our favorite girl... week-end.

Handwriting on the Wall—
Reporter: “I've got a news story.”
Editor: “How come. Man bite dog?”
Reporter: “No; bull threw a professor.”

Pro Pacificism—
Sing-Sing ought to get a game with Army to prove that the pen is mightier than the sword.

Lyrical Oddities—
Mary, Mary, quite contrary,
Your kisses are the go,
But why paint your lips so red?
Don't you know ‘twill show?

The undertaker is a clever chap,
He never needs the dole,
For he gets rich while other folks
Are going in the hole.

Unclassified—
An example of hard water is ice:
A good milk cow can be told by her udder.
A Polygon is a dead parrot.
A skeleton is a man with his inside out and his outside off.

Just Beyond Huntersville—
“The horse that I was riding wanted to go one way and I wanted to go the other.
“Who won?”
“He tossed me for it.”

Plowed Under—
Way to dodge work in the garden: Just hi-de-ho.

Amen—
And have you heard about the perfect pickpocket who went to church because he heard it was a good place
to prey?

If the Court Please—
At a recent banquet Mr. Justice McReynolds of the Supreme Court turned to President Hutchins of the University of Chicago:
“Mr. Hutchins,” he says, “I understand at your school you teach disrespect for our Supreme Court decisions.”
“Oh, no,” President Hutchins came back at him. “We let the students read the decisions for themselves.”

Pipe All Hands—
Doctor: “Have you any scars on you?”
Freshman: “No, but I can give you a cigarette.”

A TIP FOR PHYSICAL EDUCATION DEPARTMENT
Dick Kline, head of Paramount’s gymnasium, is starting an innovation in cocktail parties. When the redecorated gymnasium is open for
inspection in a week or so, he will give a cocktail party at noon instead of the proverbial five o'clock
hour. Health cocktails made of prune juice, carrot juice, pressed spinach, and tomato juice will be the drinks.

NUTSHELL
Ever since somebody said “down with capitalism” a few weeks ago, the potential soap box orators have had their heyday.

Looks like the fraternities voted themselves into the well-known bind when they decided to “share the wealth” with the Pan-Hellenic
Council. One is tempted to believe that they didn’t stop to think about the liability, but thought that henceforth every
dance set would be just like Mid-Winters and some loose change, in hundred dollar bills would be floating around like
autumn leaves. Well, all the shouting is over and now comes the real test. Right now it seems that the
individual fraternities will turn out about twenty-five percent for a set of four dances at one dollar each with Frank
Dailey's orchestra. No doubt the most reasonable and best Bowery Ball ever put on for Davidson. The Brotherhoods are going
to think twice about sharing the wealth if they have to dig into the treasury and produce seventy-five or a
hundred dollars. The point being that if the fraternities expect to put over their self-styled program, they'll have to put
out and support it.

The military boys are in for a treat at the Friday afternoon parade when Lieut.-Col. Jack Branch will present battalion
sponsor Dot Bagwell. That ought to be a drawing card. Then Friday night at the formal dance, Scabbard and Blade
will strut forth an impressive figure.

Queens Day Post Mortem—
Major Clark managed to get a date for the Junior-Senior at Queens. “Speedy” Roberts in the arms of Morpheus on
the stage. Fred Smith on the receiving end of the vegetables. To high scorer Dell Sutherland goes first prize for
victimizing Hugh Gracey, Ken Fryfogle and Pete Marchant. And poor Julius Crowell. Many a young romance should blossom forth from
Queens Day activities.

Signs of Spring—
Daily mecca at the athletic field semi-nudist colony. “Barber's revenge” haircuts. “Love-bug” infection. Meticulous white linen suits; and imagine it,
they can now be worn without the wearer keeping away from windows to avoid being drowned. Perhaps a sign that
we are returning to civilization.

Costume Suggestions For Bowery—
You could well imagine “Dopey” Lutz as a bathroom fixture inspector, or perhaps Schnozz Hill with a weathervane on his
head. Harold “Reddog” Sugg went last year as a money-bag Pan-Hellenic man. This year he'll have to revise his constitution
and go as a reformed “share the wealth” representative. Jim Morton of poetry-writing fame would look good as poet laureate.
Everybody agrees that “cheu-cheu” Edwards would feel at home in a railroad engineer's outfit. Since the love bug has chewed
on Worth Sprunt, he ought to look cute as Cupid. Archer Torrey, in keeping with an ancient precedent, might like
to go as a classic Greek. Wouldn't Al Cade look natural as a garbage collector?

The Centennial pageant is definitely a very good plan, especially with exams ending on Wednesday. There seems to be some
trouble, however, in getting the livestock for the staging. Tyler Port radio-advertised for a “yock of oacksen” recently. The student
body should be able to supply some horses but mules, oxen and pigs won't be so easy.

Faculty Day—
Mrs. Smith’s idea of having open house for the faculty and townspeople seems to be a good one even if
it is a little hard on those of us who are against living in clean rooms. From four until five
tomorrow afternoon, the first floors of Georgia and Watts dormitories will be open for inspection. After the inspection is over,
the sightseers will be invited over into the parlor of Watts, where, not tea, but punch, will be served, and
Dr. Burwell who was here at the time of Woodrow Wilson, will be interviewed.

—SAM COTHRAN.
