2 CENTENNIAL YEAR ENDS CENTURY OF PROGRESS FOR DAVIDSON COLLEGE

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PAGEANT WILL DEPICT HISTORY OF DAVIDSON FROM ITS BEGINNING

VOL. XXV DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N.C., MAY 19, 1937 NO. 5

College Centennial Pageant to Be Divided Into Three Periods of School’s Past History

Elaborate Costumes Being Made For Nearly Seven Hundred Characters

TO BE HELD ON JUNE 7

All Preparations Progressing Satisfactorily

Davidson College — century of progress—Such is the theme of “The Pageant and Masque of Davidson College” for which preparations are now being made and which are rapidly progressing to completion. The pageant and masque to be presented on Monday evening, June 7, at 8:00 on Richardson Field, are written and directed by Theodore Viehman and will cover three periods of Davidson College history, the prehistoric years, the one hundred years of past history, and a glimpse into the aecone and future of the institution.

Historic Episodes

The pageant proper is divided into twelve episodes. The first episode portrays an Indian village in this Piedmont section of the Carolinas in 1702 before the white man had ever set foot on the territory. The coming of the first white man and of the Scotch-Irish settlers is shown. The Mecklenburg Declaration of Independence, the spark which kindled American freedom, and a short scene of the funeral of General Davidson for whom the college was named comprise the second episode.

Episode III opens with a spirited meeting, in 1835, of Prospect Church at which plans were laid, not without much opposition, and considerable funds were raised against many odds, and the college incorporated, despite converse opinion.

First Class Opened

After the college was named, the opening of the first classes in 1837, and the first inauguration and commencement make up Episode IV. A series of scenes from 1840 to 1848 showing a meeting of the Philanthropic Literary Society, the designing of the college seal, and something of the story of Peter Stuart Ney, believed to have been Marshall Ney, Napoleon’s general, and some campus scenes in 1848 comprise Episodes V and VI.

The student rebellion in 1854 against the stern discipline of Major Hill and the subsequent student strike is covered in Episode VII. The story of Maxwell Chambers who died in 1854 and willed two hundred thousand dollars to Davidson is told in Episode VIII, and after that the struggle of the college to keep alive through the days of the War Between the States is depicted in Episode IX.

Episode X is the re-enactment of activities on the campus in 1874 when Woodrow Wilson was a student at Davidson. The famous X-ray experiment, performed by three Davidson students and which was the first X-ray photo (Continued on Page 5)

Barrow and Dorsett Chosen ODK Officers

Members of the Delta Omicron Delta Kappa, circle of honorary leadership fraternity, have just elected Wade Barrow as president and J. K. Dorsett as vice president of the circle. Barrow is president of the rising senior class, and a member of Kappa Sigma. Dorsett will be editor of “Quips and Cranks” for next year. He was president of the junior class this year and a member of Phi Gamma Delta. Dr. G. R. Vowles was re-elected faculty secretary.

COLLEGE SEEKS IMPROVEMENTS

Present Plans Call For a Better Davidson But Not a Larger Davidson

COMMITTEE AT WORK

Endowments Sought to Be Greatly Enlarged

Davidson has been getting ready for the Centennial for three or four years. College architects have studied the campus and laid plans for its development for future years. Present plans call for a better Davidson but not a bigger Davidson. A centennial program committee, composed of members of faculty and trustees, after several meetings decided on a two-fold program: first, an appropriate celebration at commencement and the pageant; second, to increase the resources of the old institution for the work ahead.

The committee outlined needs as follows: Infirmary, $25,000; Library $100,000; Field House, $150,000; Social Center, $75,000; Science building, $125,000; Dormitory, $100,000; Church, $225,000; and a greatly increased endowment. The committee did not undertake to fix the relative importance of the buildings other than to concentrate on an infirmary, and a library. It is earnestly hoped that some buildings will be taken as a family memorial. Efforts to secure the needed equipment are not being subscribed as a campaign, but a move has now started which will command the interest and support of thousands of alumni and friends. Each donor to Chambers building is being asked to duplicate his gift. If this goal could be reached, contracts for several new buildings would be let this summer.

SELF-GOVERNMENT IS AIM OF DAVIDSON

Backed Up By Feeling And Spirit of College

Davidson College's student government has received much publicity and has been praised by many persons who have observed its functioning. One of the determining factors in the success of this system is one which perhaps has not been mentioned forth. This factor is that the student government ideal antedates the present organized student council by many years. The Student Council was not organized until 1910 but student government goes back to 1837 when the college began. There were liberty-loving, self-governing people back of this college. People who were rugged individualists. The inherent qualities of the founders have been prevalent in the students of Davidson from the very start; they have wanted to run their own college. This desire for self-government, with its development into the present organized system, has managed to express itself in various ways.

A striking example of this quality occurred as far back as 1854. Major Hill, a West Pointer, was chosen as professor of the college. He directly went to work and set up a system of discipline somewhat similar to that of West Point. As evidence of their love of self-discipline and self-rule the students (Continued on Page 5)

DAVIDSON--PAST AND PRESENT

HOEY WILL BE HONORED HERE

Men From Several Professions To Be Recognized at Commencement

VARIED DEGREES GIVEN

Last Editions of Student Publications To Make Appearance on Campus

DAVIDSONIAN BECOMES OLDER: LARGER PAPER

College Annual to Be Given Out to Students on May 25

The 1937 edition of “Quips and Cranks” is now in the hands of the printers, and will definitely be out on May 25, according to John Abernethy, editor. The work of actually printing the annual this year has been given to Lassiter Press of Charlotte, while the Charlotte Engraving Co. has charge of making cuts and doing engraving work. The Kingsport Press is making the cover. The complete annual will of course be assembled at the Lassiter plant in Charlotte.

The actual yearbook which will greet the eyes of the students will be different in several aspects from those of other years. The cover is to be a dark green, but containing the usual 290 pages. The annual is the larger size 9 in. by 12 in. which has been used for the last few years. Three novel ideas are being used in this issue which have never been used in the Davidson annual before. The first is a write-up of the intramural sports program, which has been very extensive this year, and has filled a large enough part of campus life to deserve a spot in the annual. The second feature is eight pages of informal snapshots, scattered at different places throughout the book. To introduce each of the class sections, there will be an informal picture of the officers of the class. The theme for the annual was chosen to be the Centennial anniversary of Davidson College. The staff engaged an artist, who formerly (Continued on Page 6)

Improvements Noted

The growth of Davidson in the past century has been accompanied by numerous improvements on the campus. Only thirtyYears ago, students rented their rooms totally unfurnished. A sewage system was installed in 1909. The grass of the campus was cut just twice a year. Pride in the appearance of the campus increased with the new buildings. The grass was fertilized and the trees pruned. Walks have been paved in the last ten years, as have the drives about the campus. The construction of the athletic fields now used was a major improvement. Numerous class gifts have also added to the beauty of the college.

First Davidsonian Has Four Small Pages

On April 1, 1914, clerks at the Davidson post office pushed into the boxes the first copies of Volume 1, Number 1, The Davidsonian. From that time up to the present, without a stop, a Davidsonian has appeared every Wednesday of the school year. The first Davidsonian was considerably smaller than the present one, only about fifteen inches and containing only four pages. There was much opposition to it, as it was thought there wasn't enough news to make it worthwhile. However, after finals, a meeting was held.

SUNDAY, JUNE 6
11:00 A.M.—Baccalaureate Sermon by Rev. Harris E. Kirk, D.D., Baltimore, Md.
4:00 P.M.—Sacred Concert, College Symphonic Band.
8:15 P.M.—Address, “Religion and Education” by Dean Christian Gauss, Princeton University.

MONDAY, JUNE 7
10:00 A.M.—Academic Procession.
11:00 A.M.—Graduation Exercises.
—Address, by Dr. W. J. Martin, President Emeritus.
5:00 P.M.—Senior Class Day Exercises.
8:15 P.M.—Faculty Reception.
8:15 P.M.—Historical Pageant, Richardson Stadium.

TUESDAY, JUNE 8
10:00 A.M.—Academic Procession.
10:30 A.M.—Conferring of Honorary Degrees.
—Address, by Dr. Gordon Jennings Laing, University of Chicago.
—Greetings from Colleges and Universities.

Prominent Persons to Receive Doctorates

Clyde R. Hoey, Governor of North Carolina, will head the list of seventeen distinguished men who will receive honorary degrees at the centennial commencement exercises of Davidson on June 8th. Gov. Hoey will receive the honorary degree of Doctor of Laws. The group of men who will receive degrees includes Davidson alumni and other men who have become prominent in various fields. Among them are former college presidents, ministers, scientists, and eminent medical men. In awarding degrees this year, a much larger number than in previous years will be honored. Institutions as well as individuals have been kept in mind.

Centennial Issue of Magazine To Be Out to Students This Week

Davidson alumni who will be honored with degrees are Dr. W. J. Martin and Dr. Henry Louis Smith. Two well-known physicians who are Davidson graduates will receive the Doctor of Science degree. Dr. Fred W. Rankin, Lexington, president of the Southern Surgical Association, and Dr. Henry R. Slack, Boston, Mass., an internationally known authority on tropical diseases, are among the recipients. Another familiar figure to Davidson students is Rev. John A. Redhead, pastor of the Second Presbyterian Church, Charlotte. Vereen Bell, who is editor of the magazine, has the main contribution to this issue, with an article by Ned Chambers, Davidson, and others. The magazine has been dedicated to the Centennial celebration and will be out sometime this week. It will be a deluxe edition of 40 pages and is under the joint editorship of Hal Overton and Sam Ryburn, incoming and outgoing editors. The cover was also drawn by Ryburn and Overton in collaboration.

Main features of this issue include contributions from various alumni. Vereen Bell, who was editor of the magazine in '33 and is now an associate editor of "American Boy," has the main contribution. Other contributors include Dr. W. J. Martin, Dr. Henry Louis Smith, and Dr. Fred W. Rankin. The magazine will also feature letters from various editors from the past.

School Endowment Greatly Enlarged

With the approach of the centennial celebration, much effort has been made to increase the endowment. The endowment fund was greatly enlarged in 1909, when the General Education Board, a Rockefeller project, contributed a substantial sum. This was raised by private subscription, and the General Education Board contributed to the endowment fund.

Davidson Celebrates 100th Year

Davidson Had System of Manual Labor as Feature of Program at One Time

Sixty-Five Original Students Had Individual Burden To Carry

Many Crises Occur

Davidson College was established to promote knowledge and community. On March 1, 1837, two years before the Presbytery had passed a resolution approving such an institution, the college had an endowment of $30,000 and 65 students. Each afternoon, these sixty-five students were expected to do some type of manual labor, but within a few years, this was abolished.

Chambers Donation

For some twenty years, those men who had founded the college and others who had become interested battled to bring to the support of the school each year enough money to cover operating expenses. The brave pioneers of Davidson were greatly encouraged by the quarter of a million dollars which was given to the institution by the will of Maxwell Chambers. Among the benefits received from this donation were the Old Chambers Building and a permanent endowment.

Davidson faced a difficult time during the Civil War. Enrollment diminished, and part of the endowment was lost. But out of the fire of war came a stronger Davidson. However, the period from 1870 was marked by many challenges.

"Old Chambers" Burns

Robert H. Morrison Was First President

Robert H. Morrison was born in 1818 and was the first president of Davidson College.