WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 1937 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Five

Chapman Writes Again From European Towns
Tells of Interesting Visits to Milan, Rome, Florence and Lerici

VACATIONING IN ITALY
Invites Davidson Students to Visit Him At Oxford

(This is the second of a series of articles written by Carleton B. Chapman, '36, Rhodes Scholar at Oxford University.
This letter was written from Italy where he spent his vacation recently.)

At present I am enjoying a vacation in Italy. The town of Lerici is not on most maps, but it
is quite near the important Italian Naval base, La Spezia, which may be located in the north of Italy a
little south of Genoa. Lerici is a mile from the village of San Terenzo, where Shelley often visited and from
which he set out on a voyage from which he never returned. His small sailboat, I am told, was swamped
in a squall down the coast, and his body was washed up several days later at Livorno, a few miles
south of the famous university city, Pisa. The poet Byron, according to fairly reliable information, swam across the gulf of
Spezia from San Terenzo to Port Venere, an old Roman seaport.

Forsaking Lerici and my books for Christmas, where the poet visited, I went down to Rome with a fellow medical
student. We found the trains unbelievably crowded, and Rome even more crowded. Nevertheless, the trip was a most interesting one,
and settled in my mind the belief that Rome, Milan, and Florence are the most interesting and delightful cities in
Europe. To the European traveler, I heartily recommend including these Italian cities in his itinerary, even though it may mean
the sacrificing of visits elsewhere.

Invitation Extended
The mention of European travelers brings to my mind the possibility that a very fortunate few members of the Davidson
student body may be contemplating coming abroad in the summer. To those who are making such plans, I especially direct
a plea that they include a stopover in Oxford at least of sufficient duration to permit them to join me
in the worthy English custom of tea. A few days in Oxford would, needless to say, be well spent. My
summer vacation, beginning about July first, will be spent in part at least in Oxford, since there is much dissecting
work to be done in the vacation which can best be done at Oxford. I extend my invitation not only
to the members of the three upper classes but to the members of the freshman class, very few of whom
I have had the pleasure of meeting. I hope again to have the pleasure of writing to the Davidsonian, and
thank the editor for extending to me this opportunity. I look forward each week to its arrival, and believe that
there is no reader who goes through it more thoroughly.

HELPS PREVENT MANY COLDS
Especially designed aid for nose and upper throat, where most colds start.
Regular Size....30¢
Double Quantity 50¢

DAVIDSON GRADUATES RECEIVE FELLOWSHIPS
Four Men at Union Seminary Are Honored By Awards

Four Davidson College graduates were among the five Union Theological Seminary students who this week received the coveted fellowships that
provide an additional year of ministerial studies at home and abroad. The Davidson men were: William B. Ward, class of
1933, who received the Salem Fellowship for home or foreign study; Samuel S. Wiley, '32, the Walter W. Moore Fellowship,
for foreign study; Benjamin F. Brown, '29, the Thomas Cary Johnson Fellowship for study at Union Theological Seminary; and Charles
M. Pratt, '30, the Charles D. Larus Fellowship for Union Seminary study.

Ward, who is president of the seminary’s student body, is a native of Timmonsville, S.C. At Davidson he was a
member of Eta Sigma Phi, Delta Pi Kappa, the Eumenean Literary Society, and the International Relations Club. Wiley, who for
two years was general secretary of the Davidson Y.M.C.A., is a native of Salisbury. He has been outstanding in young
people’s work in North Carolina. At Davidson Wiley was a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity, Phi Beta Kappa,
and Omicron Delta Kappa. He was also Salutatorian of his class. Last June he became assistant pastor of the Presbyterian
Church of Petersburg, Va., a position he now holds.

Brown is a native of the Steele Creek Community, near Charlotte. He was active in religious work at Davidson, was
a student assistant in the Second Presbyterian Church, and was a member of the Spanish Club. Pratt was editor of
Quips and Cranks his senior year at Davidson, was a member of Omicron Delta Kappa, Delta Theta Chi, Delta Pi
Kappa, and Sigma Upsilon. He is a native of Athens, Ga.

The “Committee for the Preservation of Tradition at St. Mary’s University” proclaimed recently that shaves, haircuts, baths and any other
similar marks of civilization would be outlawed during exam week.

VICKS VA-TRO-NOL

VISIT
White Drug Company
For Prompt and Efficient Service
Magazines - Fountain Pens - Toilet Articles
“Davidson’s Oldest and Best”

“LET’S GET HANES AND STAY HOME THIS WINTER!”
P. H. Hanes & Company

BUILDINGS CITED FOR DESIGNS
DAVIDSON LITERARY HALLS CALLED EXAMPLES OF EARLY AMERICAN ARCHITECTURE.—The Eumenean Literary Society Hall (left) and the Philanthropic Literary Society Hall
were recently selected by architects of the American Building Historical Survey as outstanding examples of early American architecture. Woodrow Wilson
(inset), war-time President of the United States, made his first public speech before the Eumenean Literary Society as a freshman
here.

VESPER PROGRAMS OF NEW MONTH RELEASED
“Genial Jan” Impressed By Davidson Students

LOCAL LAUNDRY UP-TO-DATE
Three and a Half Tons Per Week Includes More Shirts Than Socks

Did you know that the Davidson man wears just as many shirts as he does socks? A recent checkup by
Mr. W. B. Hambrick, the manager of the Davidson laundry, shows that the student body sends down about 600 bundles
per week, averaging 7,000 pounds. It takes a strong freshman class to handle all that. Each bundle averages six shirts
and three pairs of socks. The Davidson man changes pajamas once a week and uses five handkerchiefs during that time.
How does the bag that you send down every Monday morning compare with that?

The Davidson Laundry is a member of the Laundry Owners’ National Association and gets the benefit of new ideas conceived
by that body in connection with washing and cleaning. It is equipped to handle anything from the diapers that some
of the pledges will have to wear during Hell Week to your overcoats.

Believe It Or Not
Midwinter’s Band Leader Prefers Playing For College Dances

IS NATIVE TAR HEEL
Popular Maestro Is Now on Southern Tour
By OVID BELL

“Davidson students show a wonderful spirit,” said Jan Garber while he took a few minutes off from his work with
the orchestra last Saturday afternoon at the Mid-Winters tea dance. “I’ve never seen anything quite like it.” Much impressed by
the warm reception of the Davidson student body, “Genial Jan” told that he preferred to play for college parties because
he had a better opportunity to get acquainted with his audience.

Talking along as he gave his autograph to all comers, he explained that he took over Rudy Rudisill’s orchestra and
that none of the members of his (Garber’s) original organization are included in his troupe today.

Plans College Tour
When asked about his plans for the future, he smiled and said that “Next winter I may be in Chicago.
Who knows?” He continued, however, to tell about the rest of his tour. After completing his engagement here, he had
an engagement in Asheville to play Monday night. From Asheville he will journey to Lexington, Va., to be at the
Mid-Winters dances at V. M. I., and

Concert of Sacred Music Plan- longer if treated at the college V. M. I., andthen go to Gainesville, Fla. for
the University’s Military Ball. On March 8 he and his orchestra open for a month’s engagement in Miami. And then,
remembering that the show must go on, he started back to the stage. But he paused to add that he
was a native Carolinian and had attended the Southern Baptist Theological Seminary in Richmond, Va.

Here is what happens to your laundry from the time that you throw it to some hapless freshman until it
is returned to you: Each piece is segregated and tagged to put in strong clean net bags. Your pink silk
underwear is put in one bin, and blue pieces in another. Two colors are never mixed. According to color, there
are 26 classifications as to color, shade, material, print or dye, and nature of garment. In each net bag there
is a tag with your number on it. They are put in a washer full of warm, sudsy water. Round
and round, eight times one way and eight times the other, and the clothes are cleaned through and through. This
is done five times and then there are five rinsings. Over 50 gallons of water are used on your clothes
each week! Then the clothes are put in a basket and whirled around some more until almost dry. Up to
this point, your clothes have been handled by ordinary inks.

Beta Theta Pi
The weekly pledge meeting was held on last Wednesday night and Saturday, February 20 was announced as the date of
formal initiation. After the Friday afternoon tea dance, a banquet was held at Hotel Charlotte with John Winn as toastmaster.
Several alumni and faculty members were present, including Professor Frontis Johnson and wife. There was a feed at the house
Friday night after the dance. The chapter enjoyed having Bill Hobbs as a guest over the weekend.

Delta Sig
Thomas, Bennie Harrison, George Ficklen, Bob Wood, and Jake Jacobs. George Matthis was toastmaster at a banquet held Friday night
at Thacker’s restaurant. Among the alumni present were Tom Marchant, Walter Hunter, Buddy Newton, Grier Martin, and Henry Eve. A
feed was held at the house after the Friday night dance.

Kappa Sigma
The usual pledge meeting was held Thursday night. A banquet was held in the Hotel Charlotte after the tea dance
on Friday. Genial Bancroft Mosely was toastmaster on this occasion. Several alumni attended the banquet. A feed was held Friday
morning after the dance. Stuart Oglesby visited his home in Atlanta Saturday and Sunday. The chapter enjoyed having George Ross
as a guest over the weekend.

Pi Kappa Alpha
Eight new men were initiated into the fraternity last Thursday night. The men who became brothers were: Charlie Akers, Jim
Anderson, George Coates, Durette Coltraine, Ellis Wood Fisher, Glen Grier, Bill Stevenson, and Hugh Willis. At this meeting, officers of
the fraternity were selected as: Walt Dickson, president; Teeny Lafferty, vice-president; Doug Neil, secretary, and Milton Crisp, treasurer. A banquet
was held Friday night at Hotel Charlotte. Walt Dickson served as toastmaster on this occasion. Among the alumni present were
Jim Hodgin, Blanton Little, and Bill Archer.

Kappa Alpha
After the Friday afternoon dance, a banquet was held at Efird’s with John Anderson as toastmaster. The brothers enjoyed an
entertaining talk by Dr. Hood. A feed was given at the house Friday night. Among the visitors over the weekend
were Ed Hancock of Bluefield, W. Va., and a member of Rho chapter, University of South Carolina.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon
Informal fraternity initiation was held last Monday night and formal initiation on Wednesday night. Nine members of the class of
1940 became brothers at this time. They are: Tom Crichten, Buck Powell, Jim Currie, Alderman McLean, Jim

Phi Gamma Delta
The chapter held a banquet at the S. and W. Cafeteria after the Friday afternoon tea dance. Fred Stair was
toastmaster. Bill Bolin and Fred Stair went home after the dances. John Bolin and Bob

Knox College will celebrate its hundredth anniversary during the Founders’ Day program to be held during this month.

(Continued on Page 6)

Made by The Parker Pen Co., Janesville, Wis.

THROW YOUR OLD PENS AWAY
And write with Parker Quink

THE PEN THAT MAKES WRITING A PLEASURE

10 A.M. to 8 P.M. FRIDAY AND SATURDAY ONLY

This Certificate Is Worth $4.41
This certificate and 59c entitles the bearer to one of our Genuine Indestructible $5.00 VACUUM FILLER SACKLESS FOUNTAIN PENS, Visible
Ink Supply, You SEE the ink. A lifetime guarantee with each pen. Sizes for ladies, men, boys, and girls. This
pen will not leak, blot, or break.

THE NEW PLUNGER FILLER—VACUUM ZIP—ONLY ONE PULL AND IT’S FULL
This pen holds 200% more ink than any ordinary fountain pen on the market. You can write for Three Months
on One Filling! No Repair Bills! No Lever Filler! No Pressure Bar! Every Pen tested and guaranteed to be unbreakable
for life. Get yours NOW. THIS PEN GIVEN FREE if you can buy one in the city for less than
FIVE DOLLARS! This Certificate good only while the advertising sale is on. INTRODUCTORY OFFER—This Pen will be $5.00 after the
sale. Also $1.50 Pencils to Match Above Pens, only 29c.

COLLEGE PHARMACY
Davidson’s “Service Drug Store”

PATRONIZE
Davidson Theatre
Davidson’s Only 5 and 10
The Best in Entertainment

COME CLOSER FOLKS—
Our Sloan’s 5 & 10c Store

James Dunn as a Racketeer Salesman—with Marian Marsh
Thursday, Feb. 18
THE PLOUGH AND THE STARS—
Starring Barbara Stanwyck and Preston Foster
Friday, Feb. 19
DANGEROUS NUMBER—
Robert Young and Ann Sothern in a Stirring Mystery
Saturday, Feb. 20
ALONG CAME LOVE—
Starring Irene Hervey and Charles Starrett
Monday-Tuesday, Feb. 22-23
ON THE AVENUE—
Dick Powell, Madeleine Carroll, Alice Faye, the Ritz Brothers
Wednesday, Feb. 24
RAINBOW ON THE RIVER—
Little Bobby Breen, with May Robson, Charles Butterworth

Every Job a Good One
M. P. Henderson
Standard Printing Company
117 Garland Court, Charlotte, N.C.
GULF GAS & OIL
