WEDNESDAY, OCT. 6, 1937 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Three

Emily Post’s “Blue Book” Has Tone of Modernism
Chaperones No Longer Used; Men Rejoice as Women Pay Bills

OLD CONVENTIONS FALL
Formal Dinner Guests Must Still Wear Tails

Yes, even Emily Post must give way to Modernity. Mrs. Post has brought out a new “Etiquette, the Blue Book of Social Usage,” and has ditched the old 1922 edition. Prepare thyself for a shock, for that which is to follow is even now acceptable in the best society. Mrs. Post, which would have created a furor had she sponsored them two decades ago, now accepts practices as a nation. For example: a young woman may dine alone with a young man in his bachelor flat (providing, of course, she is positive that neither her reputation nor her self-respect will be damaged thereby).

Chaperones Taboo
The author flatly consigns chaperones to the ash heap, concluding that a girl’s best chaperon is the training received before she “makes her debut.” She goes so far as to say that when a college boy hangs his fraternity pin on a co-ed, it may be accepted as a formal engagement of marriage. And that, as Mrs. Post herself is quite willing to admit, is almost a social jump from 1920.

Women Pay Check
Here are a few other new standards of etiquette: It is permissible for a woman to pay the dinner check when she dines with a man if he is indigent and she has money. It’s proper for a girl to attend, unchaperoned, a fraternity house party and stay overnight in the fraternity house if the occasion is a time-honored festival on the campus. (But she should take only one suitcase). It is correct to leave a party early in order to go home and listen to a favorite radio program.

Trends of the times can be seen in a chapter on smoking etiquette, on motoring manners, and even in a section on short ocean cruises. There’s also a discussion of the young man’s problem when he’s invited to parties where he knows the bridge stakes will be high, or where he’ll be roped in for theater tickets. The thing to do in that case is to decline the invitation.

Formal Dinner Stiff-Shirted
Mrs. Post still clings to a few positive “Don'ts.” Young man, her formal dinner is as stiff-shirted as ever. Her big wedding, her coming-out party, her little niceties about correspondence, are as pat as formerly. People may still not smoke at dinner, unless the hostess has signified her permission by placing cigarettes on the table. And no lady smokes on the street, even yet.

Visiting cards, too, still hang on, although it is no longer necessary to leave a whole pack of them at a door without even ringing the bell. Calling cards have disintegrated some, Mrs. Post admits. For example, instead of leaving a card, it is proper nowadays to telephone an acquaintance and say: “I have not seen you for weeks. Won't you come to lunch?” Or you may duck the conventional calls by sending people an invitation to come to your house for a cocktail. A lot of the best people are doing that, it seems.

Athletic Frat Trials
The fall try-outs for Sigma Delta Psi will be held soon as the weather permits. Requirements are: 100-yard dash in 11 3-5 seconds; 120-yd. low hurdles in 16 seconds; mile run in 6 minutes; high jump, 5-ft.; broad jump, 17-ft.; shot-put according to weight; baseball throw, 250-yd; or javelin throw, 130-ft; football punt, 40-yds.; handstand for 10 seconds; to do a handspring and land on feet; to climb 16-ft rope in 8 4-5 seconds; to chin oneself; and to swim 100-yds. in 145 seconds.

Get a SMOOTH —at— NORTON’S Barber Shop Look Swell for the Week-End

Speakers For Fall Lectures Scheduled By Dr. Shewmake
First Program Is to Be Held On November 29, or December 1

DEAN HIGGINS TO SPEAK
Series Are To Be Continued Throughout Year

Dr. E. F. Shewmake announced today that the lecture series committee is endeavoring to secure Dean Howard Higgins of Emerson University, Boston, Mass., for the first lecture of the fall. This is tentatively scheduled for either November 29 or December 1.

Dean Higgins calls his lecture “Illustrative Demonstration: How Mediums Enable Spirits to Return and Communicate with Persons Living.” This lecture is divided into two parts. The first deals with spirit (Continued on Page 6)

Volunteers Meet At Home of Dr. Gwynn
Dr. Gwynn, Archer Torrey Speak; Woodward Reports On Conference

Dr. and Mrs. P. Gwynn, Jr. were hosts to the Davidsonian Student Volunteer Group in a meeting at their home last Sunday evening at eight o'clock. Twenty-five students who have indicated their interest in foreign missions and the Student Volunteer Movement were present.

Remarks by Dr. Gwynn and Archer Torrey led the informal discussion of the evening on the challenging aspects of foreign missions and the problems which face the foreign missionary today. Dave Warden reported briefly on the conference of the state council held at Greensboro over the weekend. Refreshments were served as the conversation broke into a general open forum period.

The Student Volunteer group plans several meetings during the school year in faculty homes in order to draw together members of the student body who have an interest in missions in common. An arrangement has been made with the young people's society to cooperate in sponsoring one of their regular meetings each month on the subject of the evangelical appeal of Christianity. Also, deputation work between college mission groups will serve to stimulate thinking on interdenominationalism and racial problems.

Rotarians Hear Interesting Talk
On Tuesday of this week Dr. G. R. Vowles addressed the Rotary Club of Charlotte, N. C. using as his subject the Rotary Clubs of Germany. Dr. Vowles was invited by the Charlotte Rotarians to discuss the reasons underlying such a difference in the philosophy and ethics existing between the Rotarian clubs of Germany and those of this country. Dr. Vowles brought out in his talk that the Rotary clubs of Germany have been disbanded recently by order of the national government, and the chief reasons for this action are as follows: the German clubs are not anti-Semitic. These clubs do not conform to Nazi ideals, and these clubs are controlled by an international organization conceived in the United States. The invitation given Dr. Vowles was issued to him by Dr. Hamilton W. McKay, an alumnus of Davidson and chairman of the committee on Rotary education.

THE FINEST LINE Of Fruits and Groceries J. K. HAMPTON Deal Bldg. Main St. PHONE 193

Here are five of the six Charlotte girls who served as sponsors for Davidson at the Duke game Saturday. They stood side by side with their escorts, and cheered the Wildcats as they battled the Blue Devils. Front row: Anne Purnell, Dell Sutherland; back row: (names missing). The sixth sponsor, (name missing), could not be present when the picture was made.

Laundry Held For Students
Application of Chemistry in Laundry Demonstrated To Public

REFRESHMENTS SERVED
Mr. Hamrick Explains MachineryVisitors: They are, front row, left to right: Misses Lib Gammon, Jane Hashagen, and Mary Lib Moore.

Among the Greeks:
Beta Theta Pi
Cauble and Hector McLean went home to Winston-Salem for the weekend, bringing back these girls for a feed in the chapter house: Emily Dickinson, Laura Lu Lucius, Doreas Boyette, Margaret Boykin, Robbie Burns, and Catherine Yader. Brother Buck Powell visited the chapter during the weekend. Mr. Shields, a business associate of Buddy Newton and author of “O, David,” was a guest of the chapter. The sponsors at the football game were also guests. Professor and Mrs. Williamson, Professor O'Connor, and Professor Hemphill were guests at the regular Sunday night feed. Visiting brothers from the Alpha Alpha chapter were Russell Cooke and George Micklen’s mother. Brother Nicholson spent the weekend in Charlotte while Brother Thomas went to Ramseur. Brother Parker went to High Point while Brother Turner and Brother Lafferty went to Rock Hill and Concord, respectively.

Kappa Sigma
The brothers of the Delta chapter here extend their sympathy to Brother Euclid Fant on the serious illness of his father. The chapter had alumni and friends to a feed last Sunday night, among whom were Brother Ernest Thompson, Grimes, Latta, and Thompson. The Dream Girl of ITKA was the honor guest of the chapter over the weekend. The chapter held its first bi-monthly feed of the year on Sunday night. Pledges went to Lincoln, PJ, and Glenn with Shirley and Flora Macdonald. Wade Barrow escorted Ann Purnell, one of Davidson's sponsors at Saturday's game. Karl Hudson went to Morganton on a visit.

Pi Kappa Phi
After the Duke-Davidson game, the brothers and their dates, along with the alumni and their dates, gathered at the chapter house and had refreshments. The alumni were “Goof” Warren and Ben Wych of Charlotte; Dick Howie of Duke; and Ralph Belk of Charlotte. Alumni Dick Phil Smal, Bill Rhodes, Cam Johnson, Buddy Newton, Scott Shephard, Henry Mills, and Wone Marchant were up for the game. Misses Laura Fleming, Annie Brown of Charlotte; Mickey Mason and Mary Monroe, Lib McLean went to his home in Morganton while Pledges Tom Jack Watson, McNinch, Pidge Walters, Mel Register, Sally Queens-Chicora Helen of Greensboro, Lalitte, Elizabeth Rose Bell, Margaret McDowell of College, Bidwell Louise Hite, Rock Hill, S.C., for the weekend. Pledges Ivey, Jimmy Conolly, and Mike Cunningham went to Hickory for the weekend. The brothers enjoyed a feed Sunday night.

Phi Gamma Delta
Among the girls down for the weekend and the game were Alice Harris of Salisbury; Emily Monroe of Greensboro; Sara Craig of Wilson; Lenett Moss of Henderson; Ruth Whalin of Middlesboro, Ky.; Mary Baldwin, Lib Mendenhall, and Betty Bahnson of Winston-Salem; Ann Wiley and Jane Hashagen of Charlotte; Alice Wright Murphy of Salisbury; Emily Dunlap of Charlotte; Eleanor Newman and Hoole Roberts of Salisbury; Mary Grizby of Jonesboro, Tenn.; Betty Mounteastle of Lexington; Sue Rentrow of Matthews; Esther Hambley of Salisbury; and Mildred of Knoxville, Tenn.

Phi Delta Theta
The chapter entertained at the Hotel Charlotte. Those present were Carter Jenkins, Duke Gilmore, and Coyington. The following girls were up for the game and the weekend: Betsy Wharton, Eleanor Kereliner, Tina Cauthen, Louise Fant, Betty Fayssoux, Nancy Dupey, and Jean Stough.

Sigma Phi Epsilon
Many of the brothers spent the weekend out. Henry Lyons went to Salisbury. Jim Doty went to Rock Hill, S.C., as usual. Skinny Lowrance and his brother, Fred, went home to Barium Springs. They sat on the Davidson side.

Miss Alice Cowles Barringer, the sixth David (Courtesy Charlotte Observer)

Sponsors Give Color To Tilt

REMEMBER You Always Save At Belk Bros.

NOTICE
Friends of Mrs. W. E. Ingle may be interested to know that her present address is 1236 E. 28th Street, Brooklyn, N.Y. She is living with her son-in-law and daughter, Mr. and Mrs. Robert Garth.

To the People of Davidson...
We extend a cordial invitation to visit. The excellent quality, careful tailoring, and smart style of these fine suits match that of many other suits that retail at much higher prices. The handsome Botany Worsted fabrics are in plaids, subdued checks, stripes, and herringbone effects. Come in early and try one on!

WITH TWO TROUSERS

We carry a line of nationally advertised furniture. Kroehler Living Room, Tomlinson of High Point, Alexander Smith, Firth, and Mohawk Rugs.

PHONE 168
Sloop Furniture Co.
MOORESVILLE, N.C.

$39.50 MEN'S CLOTHING STREET FLOOR BELK BROS. CO. CHARLOTTE, N.C.