DAVIDSON COLLEGE TRUSTEES CONVENE IN ANNUAL MEETING

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA

The Davidsonian

LIBERTAS

CATS STAGE RALLY IN LAST MINUTES TO DOWN CITADEL

VOL. XXIV DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FEBRUARY 17, 1937 NO. 17

CATS BEAT CADETS IN THRILLING GAME

Wildcats Come From Behind To Pile Up Big Lead Over Dazed Bulldogs

CITADEL FIGHTS GAMELY

Armstrong and Iverson Lead Scoring For Davidson

In a game that was surprisingly close for three quarters, the Wildcats strengthened their hold on eighth place in Southern Conference standings by beating the Citadel Bulldogs 46 to 34 here Monday night.

Davidson started the game with a quintet composed of Ned Iverson, Maurice Peabody, Bill Hancock, John Armstrong, and Bill Kiesewetter. Midway of the first half Citadel led by a score of 11 to 6 and Captain Bill Quick, J. D. Hicks and John Tice entered the game for Davidson. Paced by Armstrong and Quick the Cats tied the score, but just before the end of the first half Citadel put in a field goal and two free shots to gain a 22-18 lead as the horn sounded. In this half the Lairdmen seemed over-confident, played listlessly at times, and were shooting poorly.

At the beginning of the second half the Bulldogs forged steadily ahead until, with only ten minutes to go, they led, 30-20. With time running short and their opponents freezing the ball, things looked dark for the Wildcats. Davidson took time out and it was a changed team that began play again. Armstrong started the rally by sinking a field goal. A moment later he got another, sandwiched in by two from the big paws of Hicks. The scarlet-clad warriors were playing splendid ball now, making every shot count. From this point on the issue was never in doubt as Davidson won going away.

Friday night the Cats went down before a highly-geared State team to the tune of 51 to 34. Led by Connie Mack Berry, who racked up 23 points, Coach Sermon's team turned in one of its best performances of the season. Iverson and Quick played best for Davidson and Tice also looked good.

In a non-conference game here last Wednesday the Davidson quint breezed to an easy victory over the Guilford Quakers. Laird started his second team and sent the varsity in after eleven minutes on the short end of an 11-6 score. The first-stringers ran up a lead and were never headed. The subs played part of the last half.

TRIAL TO BE STAGED BY R.O.T.C. STUDENTS

J. O. Branton Will Be Tried By Court Martial Next Wednesday

The Davidson R.O.T.C. department will conduct a mock court martial Wednesday, February 24 at 7:30 P.M., in Chambers Building. At this, charges will be brought against one Lieutenant J. O. Branton, and the officers of the court will find him guilty or not guilty. The culprit is accused of the following offenses against military law:

Charge I, Specification 1: In that Lieut. J. O. Branton did at Davidson College, Davidson, N. C., on or about February 4, 1937, without proper leave, go from the properly appointed place of assembly for class, after having repaired thereto for the performance of said duty;

Charge II, Specification I: In that Lieut. J. O. Branton did, at Davidson College, Davidson, N. C., on or about February 4, 1937, behave himself with disrespect toward Lieut.-Col. John T. Rhett, his superior officer, by leaving his class suddenly and without any explanation, taking advantage of his superior officer's momentary absence;

Charge III, Specification I: In that Lieut. J. O. Branton, having received a lawful command from Lieut.-Col. John T. Rhett, his superior, to take a writ on Military Policy, did wilfully disobey the same;

Charge IV, Specification I: In that Lieut. J. O. Branton, with (Continued on Page 6)

DR. M. W. WHITE

Pictured above is Dr. Marsh W. White who will give a public lecture on “Twentieth Century Alchemy,” Monday night, February 22.

NEW CATALOGUE APPEARS SOON

Centennial Edition Will Carry More Attractive Style Of Type

COVER TO BE CHANGED

New History and Geography Courses Announced

Final proofs have been returned, and the printer has promised to deliver the Davidson centennial catalog on the 20th of this month, announces F. W. Hengeveld, editor of the annual publication. The new catalog, in harmony with the college's centennial program, will display a novel dark cover, with the college seal printed in red ink. A new style of type, smaller and more attractive than that used in former catalogs, has been selected for the descriptive material.

A large amount of wording has been changed, and though the number of pages remains practically the same—a little less than 150—the new small size of type enables more material to be printed. Notable changes include the rewriting of the historical preface so as to give significant details of the college’s first hundred years, and Mr. Jackson’s revision and simplification of the section on fees and finances. Several new courses are announced for the 1937-38 session. Professor Porter has enlarged the geography department, offering more elective courses. For students desiring more advanced history, Dr. T. W. Lingle is to teach a class in communism and fascism one semester, and one in ancient history of the Near East the other semester. (Continued on Page 6)

DR. WHITE TO GIVE PUBLIC LECTURE ON CHEMICAL SUBJECT

Physics Professor to Speak About “Twentieth Century Alchemy”

TO USE ILLUSTRATIONS

Technical Talk To Be On Tuesday Morning

Dr. Marsh W. White of Pennsylvania State College, will give a public lecture in Chambers Auditorium Monday night, February 22. Dr. White will use as his theme, “Twentieth Century Alchemy,” and will illustrate his talk. The lecture will be of popular nature and entertaining to all, especially to the students that are majoring in physics, chemistry, and biology.

Dr. White will give a technical lecture to the advanced students in physics on Tuesday morning, February 23. This lecture will also be illustrated and the theme will be: “Scientific Results of Recent Stratosphere Balloon Flights.”

Dr. White is a native Carolinian, having been born in Claremont in 1896. He received his A. B. degree at Park College in 1917, and in 1918 came to the Pennsylvania State College as instructor in physics. From this institution he received his M. S. degree in 1920 and his Ph.D. degree in 1926. This doctorate was the first one granted by Penn State after the formal organization of the graduate school. After a year as visiting Professor of Physics at Williams College in 1926-1927, he returned to Penn State as Associate Professor of Physics.

Dr. White is a member of the Society of Sigma Xi, Pi Mu Epsilon (honorary mathematics fraternity), the American Physical Society, and a fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science. He was active in the national direction of Sigma Pi Sigma (Honorary Physics society), having served as executive secretary since the spring of 1928. Dr. White is the author of a book entitled “Experimental College Physics.”

Dr. Lacy Will Speak For Sunday Vespers

Dr. Benjamin R. Lacy, now president of the Union Theological Seminary located in Richmond, Va., was announced as the next guest minister for the Y. M. C. A. Vespers Services. Dr. Lacy will speak here Sunday, February 21 in Chambers auditorium at 6:30 o'clock.

Dr. Lacy is a Davidson graduate who, while he studied here, was prominent in the extracurricular life of the campus. After leaving Davidson he entered Union Theological Seminary of which he is now president. Dr. Lacy is also a Rhodes Scholar of distinction. He was a member of the class of 1907 here at Davidson. Dr. Lacy is to occupy the pulpit of Davidson Presbyterian Church the same Sunday morning that he leads the college Vesper Service.

Eighty-One Seniors Make Dean’s List This Semester

Eighty-one members of the Senior class are on the dean's list for the three and a half years of their college work, according to the list issued by the registrar, Mr. F. W. Hengeveld, on Monday morning. Mr. Hengeveld also expects to have the senior averages ready by the latter part of this week. They will be posted in the lobby of Chambers Auditorium.

To make the dean's list a student must maintain an average of B for the entire three and a half years, or an average of B for his junior and first half of his senior years. Those seniors making the list are as follows: Abernethy, J. K.; Allen, A. S.; Allen, J. D.; Anders, R. R.; Anderson, J. B.; Anderson, T. D.; Andrews, J. A. C.; Bell, R. M.; Bigham, R. S.; Boggs, W. H.; Bradley, J. O.; Branton, J. T.; Breeden, F. A.; Brown, C. E.; Brown, W. C.; Bustle, W. R.; Carlson, C. I.; Cathey, F. A.; Clark, B. S.; Clark, H. R.; Cooke, A. O.; Covington, W. D.; Crane, J. A.; Dickson, J. A.; Douglas, W. A.; Edwards, W. S.; Finley, E. S.; Frieze, W. S.; Fryfogle, K. E.; Gailey, J. H.; Gracey, H. C.; Harper, J. W.; Horine, E. F.; Howard, P. A.; Hunter, J. L.; Johnston, J. D.; King, Robert; Knorr, K. H.; Lafferty, R. H.; Link, W. C.; McClelland, J. R.; McIlwinen, W. L.; McLean, F. H.; Mack, E. J.; Mack, F. M.; Mauze, C. W.; Mills, H. T.; Moffett, A. S.; Moffett, J. P.; Mullis, T. D. (Continued on Page 6)

TRUSTEES MEET FOR ANNUAL SESSION

The Executive and Education Committees Hold Separate Meetings

BOARD HEARS REPORTS

Plans For Next Year Are Discussed By Trustees

The regular meeting of the Trustees of Davidson College is being held here today in the Faculty Room of Chambers Building. This meeting began at 10 o’clock this morning. The trustees will receive reports from the president and treasurer, and will make plans for the operation of the college next year. The trustees are headed by Dr. R. A. Dunn of Charlotte. Mr. F. L. Jackson, treasurer of the College, is also treasurer of the trustees.

Previous to the meeting of the entire body of trustees, two committee meetings were held. At 2:30 P.M. yesterday afternoon the executive committee of the board met here. The education committee of the trustees also met here yesterday. This committee is composed of Dr. R. A. Dunn, Dr. C. R. Wilcox, of Rome, Ga.; Mr. H. S. Richardson, of Greensboro; and Dr. W. L. Lingle, of Davidson.

The entire body of trustees consists of 49 members, who are elected for four-year terms by the Presbyteries of North Carolina and Florida, and the Alumni Association.

Committee Selected For Junior Speaking

The committee for the Junior Speaking set of dances has been chosen.and is ready to swing into action. It has been definitely decided that the dances are going to be held on the dates of March 19 and 20, and the band will be announced in the near future. Following is a list of the committee fraternities: Phi Gam—Jim Dorsett, President of the Junior Class; S. A. E.—Yates Faison; K. A.—Fred Dennis; Kappa Sigma—Chubby King; Pi Kappa Alpha—Teeny Lafferty; Pi Kappa Phi—Booby Arrowsmith; Phi Delta—Billy Crooks; S. P. E.—Henry Lyons.

EU, PHI HALLS ARE SELECTED
Historic American Building Survey Chooses Two Davidson Halls

Further distinction came to Davidson recently when it was announced that the architects of the Historic American Building Survey had selected Eu and Phi Halls as outstanding examples of early American architecture. These halls, landmarks on the Davidson campus, will be preserved for years in the archives of the Department of the Interior in Washington. Eu Hall has gained particular note through the fact that Woodrow Wilson made his first public speech from its rostrum. Both societies from which the two buildings gained their names have turned out many famous personages. To the Eumenean goes the credit for the first movement toward actual building, but the Phi’s followed closely, it being agreed that the halls be alike in “size, material, and magnificence,” and should (at that time) cost $1,500 each. It is the Phi Hall which contains a chandelier, the exact duplicate of the original under which Napoleon III was married to Eugenie de Montigi, Comtesse de Teba, in 1853. It was bought by William White of Sumter, S. C., and reputed to have been presented to the college by him.

GARBER PLAYS FOR DAVIDSON STUDENTS AT MID-WINTER SET
“Genial Jan” Garber Impresses Audience With His Likeable Personality

FOUR DANCES GIVEN
Ed Armfield and Miss Beda Carlson Lead Figure

The largest and most successful dance set ever held at Davidson College came to an end Saturday night just before the stroke of twelve with the singing of “O Davidson” and the dancing of the last minute to the beautiful strains of “My Dear.” Jan Garber, the idol of Davidson as well as of the air lanes, became as he and his orchestra alternately played for the more than pleased dancers. Jan started off with the Friday tea dance and was well underway; he had by means of his genial personality worked the crowd into an extremely gay mood which continued throughout the entire weekend. The whole orchestra contributed to the sweet music, plenty of spirit, and before the show, which lasted from start to finish and brought forth frequent roars of laughter. It was the inimitable Rudisill, the Kings Mountain piano pounder with the bald head and the large white comb, who stole the show, however. Rudy pounded out the rhythm from all conceivable positions from which his adept fingers could touch the piano keys, besides furnishing along with Jan most of the comic acts. He was tops in the “January Garbage’s Band” number. The Pan-Hellenic Council figure Friday evening was led by President Ed Armfield and Miss Beda Carlson, of Greensboro. Gold necklaces bearing fraternity crests were presented to the sponsors; after which the orchestra played “My Dear” for the council no-break as only Jan Garber can play it. A feature of the Saturday night dance was the presentation of a gold watch and chain to former Coach Doe Newton by Wilbur Edwards, a gift from the Davidson student body.

French Club To Visit Girls’ Colleges Soon

The Davidson chapter of Le Cercle Francais has two short plays in production preparatory to a program to be presented before the French clubs of Coker, Converse, and Winthrop Colleges. On February 22, the cast will go to Hartsville, S. C., where they will appear before the Coker College club in Moliere’s “Medecin Malgre Lui” (the doctor in spite of himself), a seventeenth-century play, and Tristan Bernard’s “L'Anglais Tel Qu’on Le Parle” (English as spoken), a contemporary Parisian comedy. An interlude in the form of a historical sketch reproducing the drafting of the Davidson College seal by Peter Stuart Ney will be presented for the first time. The club is also planning to present this same program here.

DR. R. M. WILSON
Shown above is Dr. R. M. Wilson, missionary to Korea, who will speak on leprosy and leper work in that country.

MEDICAL TALKS TO BE GIVEN
Dr. R. M. Wilson, Missionary To Korea, to Speak on Leprosy and Leper Work

DR. BRENIZER TO SPEAK
Prominent Charlotte Surgeon Will Also Lecture

Alpha Epsilon Delta, honorary pre-medical fraternity, has been fortunate in securing two interesting lectures for this week. Tonight at 7:30 in the faculty room Dr. R. M. Wilson, missionary to Korea who is home on a furlough, will speak on leprosy and leper work in Korea. Dr. Wilson is the father of Bob and Johnny Wilson, who are in school here, and is the head of the largest and most well-known leper colony in the world. This will be an illustrated lecture, Dr. Wilson using both moving pictures and slides. Not only will the social conditions resulting from this dread disease be discussed, but he will also give a technical lecture on leprosy, which will be of special interest to the pre-medical students. Dr. Addison Brenizer, who is to make an address Friday night. Dr. Brenizer is a native of Charlotte and the son-in-law of Dr. and Mrs. Caleb Harding. He is a surgeon of prominent renown in the Carolinas and throughout the south, and it is expected that his lecture will be of extreme interest to those students preparing for surgery. Dr. Brenizer is a graduate of three prominent universities, namely the University of North Carolina, Johns Hopkins University, and the University of Heidelberg in Germany. His son formerly attended Davidson and is now also pursuing medical work at Harvard.

“I had fainted unless I had believed” was the text of the Rev. Mr. Marion, pastor of the Oakland Avenue Presbyterian Church of Rock Hill, S. C., who was the guest speaker at vespers Sunday, February 14th. The Scripture lesson for the evening was taken from the 27th Psalm; the meditation verse. In the course of the service the college glee club sang “Lo A Voice to Heaven Sounding.” Rev. Mr. Marion stated that when one attends college there is a danger of his expecting too much. There are some, he continued, who have the idea that in a college, religion must give way to science; but this is a false statement, for an academic education is not sufficient for training for life. The minister then stated that college cannot give us direction for our lives. Many of us live in aimlessness and are expecting college to give our lives direction; not answering the question “What For.” We need a religion which tells us what is worth while, and then lifts our eyes, leads us toward it. Lastly, Rev. Marion pointed out that college cannot give us moral strength and sustaining power. A college degree with all for which it stands cannot of itself withstand the devil. There are needs of our souls, continued the speaker, which education cannot answer. We are going to need Jesus Christ in our struggle of life.

NEW CONSTITUTION TO BE CONSIDERED
Edwards Will Submit Clarified Constitution to Student Body

NO MAJOR ALTERATIONS
Each Section Will Be Voted on Separately

Wilbur Edwards, president of the student body, in conjunction with a constitutional committee, has written a revision of the Constitution of the Student Body of Davidson College which will be presented to the student body for adoption next Friday. This revision of the constitution involves no major changes. Its purpose is to clarify the existing constitution, to incorporate amendments which have been passed in the last few years into the main body of the constitution, and rearrange the whole in a more logical and usable order. The present student body constitution was adopted in 1912, when student government at Davidson was first organized along its present lines. Since that time no revision has been made. Some errors have inevitably crept in, and some of the amendments which have been passed have been incorporated in the body of the constitution, while others have been added at the end. Realizing that the existing constitution does not adequately outline Davidson's famed system of student government, the president of the student body undertook to write a revision, for the purpose of rearrangement and clarification. The revision was referred to Dr. Archibald Currie for legal advice and was then studied and corrected by a committee of students consisting of Bill Kieseweter, Bill Marquiss, Dave Newbold, Watson Street, Julian Squires, Tom Thurston, and John Winn. After being passed by the student council it will be presented to the student body. A mimeographed copy of the proposed revision of the constitution will be given to each student. After lying on the table ten days, it will be discussed and voted upon, section by section, in a student body meeting.

DR. CHARLES BARKER ADDRESSES STUDENTS
Mr. Ivey Brings Famous Member of Rotary International to Davidson

Rotary International brought to Davidson last Monday Dr. Charles E. Barker, of Chicago, who spoke to the student body at the chapel period on the subject, “How to Get the Most out of Life.” Dr. Barker, who has the reputation of having spoken to more high school and college students than any other man, quoted the three things which, according to President Garfield, were necessary to success: a strong arm, a clear head, and a brave heart. By “strong arm,” he meant the ability to do a great deal of work in the world. The price for that ability, he said, was 15 minutes of chest and abdominal exercises every day. The clear head, which was not speed in getting lessons, but the ability to think clearly, was more difficult to get. He applied Huxley’s definition of education: “The chief purpose of education is to train the mind and the will to do the work you have to do when that ought to be done, whether you like to do it or not.” In line with that idea, he recommended two things to be done every time one studies: 1. To force your mind to concentrate; and 2. To come quickly back to the subject every time you catch your mind wandering. Having a brave heart, he said, meant having the courage to say “no” when your conscience dictates it.