By BOB WOOD

When you look at spring practice, the protection of the team is supposed to teach them. Sometimes spring sessions are
necessary. With the headlines these days, Davidson’s own baseball team is being formed for the coming campaign. It seems that
a new interest is being shown in the diamond sport this year. There is a lively battle going on for
most of the positions, with more candidates than for some time.

Trackers Good

Davidson's track team looks to be even stronger than last season's schedule with a record of six wins and only
one loss, that to the champion Duke Blue Devils. These same Blue Devils tied the Dartmouth Indians, national intercollegiate champions,
in a dual meet just before they met the ‘Cats.

Captain W. I. Valke and others, including Dave W. B. Black, should form a great team. Altogether, it looks like
a banner year for the cindermen if advance dope is correct.

Competition Keen

Competition for places on the golf and tennis teams is keener than it has been in years. Several dark horses
have reared their heads on both fronts. The tennis tournament has already produced a number of upsets. Outstanding include George
Jones’ three-set victory over Jimmy Reinhardt, one of the three returning regulars from last year’s team, and Ed Cloyd’s fine
showing in defeating Locke Hunter, who was considered one of the favorites for a position this year.

Incidentally, George Jones has had one of the most phenomenal rises in tennis ever seen at Davidson. When George entered
Davidson, he was scarcely able to make the frosh team, but with constant practice and a lot of hard work,
he has risen to his well-deserved place on the team. George gave Rea Tenney, winner of last year’s fall tournament,
about all he could handle Monday afternoon before bowing out in three sets.

Ned Iverson To Lead Next Basketball Team

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 16, 1938

Golf Team As Squad Scores For Seventy-Two

As First Track Squad In Workouts

’Cats Prep. For Initial Meet With South Carolina

With the first dual meet of the season against South Carolina, less than two weeks away, Davidson's trackmen are rapidly
whipping themselves into shape and will meet Saturday. Present prospects are unusually bright this year, and Coach Whittle has fourteen
lettermen on hand, from which he hopes to mold a well-balanced team. The warm weather of the past week and
nearly two weeks of preliminary practice have enabled the team to swing into practice this week. An intra-squad meet scheduled
for Saturday will afford most of the team the first serious competition of the season.

Cay Wicker, one of the ranking hurdlers of the nation, is rounding into shape. The lanky ‘Cat captain is nearing
his competitive peak. W. W. Barrow, versatile veteran, is the Cats’ principal threat in the high hurdles and the pole
vault. He was individual star of last season and should enjoy another big year. In his recent win at the
Southern Conference Indoor meet, Barrow has taken his place among the leading vaulters and should score a lot of points
for Davidson if not the conference championship.

Davidson is blessed with a comparatively large number of good distance men, and in Boo Walker and Bruce Parcell, they
have two of the best in the conference. Tom McAlpine has developed into one of the best 440 men in
the state, and he and Bill Hickman give the ‘Cats two good men there. Baxter Wilson, letterman last year, in
the 100-yard dash and the broad jump, Black in the high jump, and Crisp in the weight events round out
the team.

Frosh Track

Lawrence Spearman has all five selected.

Completes Annual Test Rounds

Captain Maples, Pittman, Cooper, and Pegram Post Low Holes — Faison Selected Alternate

The qualifying round of the golf tournament was finished last week when all of the matches were played off, and
the low man was Ray Pittman who qualified with a score of 313 for the scheduled 72 holes. The battle
for positions on the regular golf team was very close all the way, but the next three lowest men were
Jimmy Cooper and Henson Maples with 316 and Charlie Pegram with 321. However, there were several men very close behind
these four and there will probably be some challenge matches played. Yates challenged Pegram and their match will be played
off this week. It will be the best two out of three 18-hole matches with the winner being assured of
the number four position on the team. Other men who qualified were Jack Tillotson, Frank Harrison, Billy Crooks, and Stu
Barnes.

First Match

The first match that will be played against Catawba will be on Saturday. The team will leave on Wednesday to
go toward the south to play five or six southern schools, among whom there will be the University of South
Carolina, Emory, University of Florida, University of Georgia, and probably Rollins. The first home match will be played against Carolina
on April 29.

Frosh Begin

The freshman golfers will get underway this week when the qualifying round will be held. Nine frosh have indicated that
they would like to compete in the tournament. They are Mac Otts, Charlie Marshall, Herbert Codington, Joe Tyson, Brinson, Jack
Abels, Betty, Granville Sharpe, and Roy Cunningham. Granville Sharpe, acting manager, indicated that the season prospects are very bright because
there have been some very good scores made by the frosh over the same course that the varsity plays, the
Carolina Course, in Charlotte.

Baseball Practice Is Under Way

Baseball practice during the past week was featured by two intra-squad games. Several boys showed plenty of promise during these
two games, mainly Dave McLean, twirler from last year’s frosh nine, who set the “vannigans” back without a hit for
six straight innings. Fielding gems were turned in by Lafferty at short and Hemphill at third.

So far during the season, Captain Joe Kellam seems to have the inside track on the catching position. Dunford, at
first, is the likely choice, while Lindsey and Fitzgerald are having a merry battle for second base. Ellwood Moyer and
Teeny Lafferty are also waging a battle for the shortstop post, while Sam Hemphill rounds out the infield as a
sure bet for the hot corner.

The outfield is well taken care of with three lettermen back from last year’s nine. Fielding Clark, Tub Hand, and
John Rudisill are slated to roam the outer gardens. Pitching material is plentiful with J. D. Hicks, Eddie Steere, Jim
Thomas, Dave McLean, George Ficklen, and Parker Contier all showing early season form.

Yearly Meet

The annual fraternity track meet is this week. A stronger field than ever is entered, and Coach “Pete” Whittle expects
this to be the greatest meet ever run. The Kappa Sigs are champions and expect to repeat this year. However,
the loss of Tom McAlpine, now out for the varsity, will greatly hinder them. The Kappa Alphas, with John Sadler
starring, won second place last year but without Sadler this year. The Eps, third place last year, will feature the
“Mighty Atom” Johnny Tice, and expect to be high in the final standings.

Each year a number of varsity prospects are uncovered, and Coach Whittle is anxiously watching this meet.

Ping-Pong

Nine men entered the third round of the annual table tennis tournament, and Harry Frampton, varsity tennis captain, defeated Tom
Henderson to lead the parade. Other results include: Moyer defeated McConnell, Foote won by forfeit, Coleman beat Loftin, Martin spanked
J. W. McLean, Hartzog defeated Armstrong, Hunter beat “Diz” McLean, Lindsay beat Williams, and Shore beat Harnesberger.

Davidson Sports

Ned Iverson, popular junior, will lead the next basketball season.On big Ned to score a large percentage of their points,
and expect him to be even hotter in the Big Five championships. Veterans who look to be real threats for
the Southern Conference and will lead the Wildcat basketeers for two years, the Davidsons next year, as he leads a
team of ones, Spencer and Porter.

Selected as Managers of Two Teams

Ned Iverson, star forward for the past two years on the Wildcat basketball team, will captain the Davidsons during the
1938-39 season. Iverson was elected at a recent meeting of the lettermen from this year’s team. At the same time,
George Jones was elected varsity manager for the coming season, and Dick Spencer frosh manager.

Craver Named

The varsity wrestlers, at a recent meeting, selected Joe Craver, 135-pound Southern Conference finalist, to lead them next season. T.
P. Porter will serve as manager. Iverson has for two years been a mainstay on the ‘Cat quintet. During his
sophomore year, he led the team in scoring, and last season he finished in second place. His ninety-odd points brought
him third place among the Big Five scorers for the past season. Besides basketball, Iverson is the regular end on
the Wildcat football team, and a candidate for the high jump in track this season. Should he win his letter
in track, he will be Davidson's second three-letter man now in college.

Rapid Rise

Craver, after alternating in the 135-pound position last season, has risen rapidly to where he was considered one of the
outstanding wrestlers in the conference this season. He reached the finals in the tournament this year, losing on a close
decision to the champion V. M. I. team’s 135-pound entrant. Iverson will lead a team of veterans next year, while
Craver will captain a team of veterans, reserves, and sophomores. The election of Jones, Spencer, and Porter climaxes a period
of faithful service for all three.

Educational authorities in Michigan are considering establishing graduate divisions for the state’s teachers colleges.

Iverson, Craver Will Lead Hoopsters and Grapplers

Kittens Begin Ball Practice

Uniforms Are Issued to Seventeen Candidates

Freshman baseball got underway Monday a week ago with approximately thirty-five candidates for the team. Prospects for the infield appear
to be pretty good, but so far the outfield is more or less a puzzle. Uniforms were issued to seventeen
men on Saturday, and the first batting practice was held Monday. The batters looked rather weak against the slants of
Craver and Reinhardt in this initial practice. So far, Reinhardt has shown the most promise as a pitcher. The catching
duties are well taken care of by Bolin and Vinson, both of whom have been looking good.

The infield is probably the strongest department of the team. Niven, Montgomery, Hogg, Latta, and Edmundson should furnish a classy
foursome for the three bases and the shortstop position. Besides these, there are numerous other men out for the infield.
So far, not much work has been done on the outfielders, and consequently, not much is known about their calibre.
However, three good men can undoubtedly be chosen from among the many candidates. The schedule has not been announced as
yet.

INVISIBLE RE-WEAVING SERVICE
Burns and Tears Rewoven
501 INDEPENDENCE BLDG.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Volleyball Is In Full Swing

Seniors Leading Loop as Heated Race Swings Into Final Half

With volleyball competition going into its second round, the seniors are holding a comfortable lead and appear to be headed
for a championship. The juniors are right on their heels, having lost only to the seniors, and seem to be
able to capitalize on any bad breaks for the present leaders.

In the opening game, the juniors beat the sophs to the tune of 21-9, 21-5. They completely outclassed their rivals.
Woodward, Marquess, and Gaw were best for the victors, while Casali looked good for the losers. The seniors continued their
winning streak as they whipped the frosh 21-5, 21-2. This was the worst defeat that any team has suffered so
far. Joe Shelton, Frank Niven, and Sam Turner played best for the frosh, while Kiesewetter, Durham, and Reid were best
of the senior “goons.”

Sophs Lose

The sophs also lost their second start as they were beaten 21-9, 21-2 by the juniors. Again, Marquess and Squires
looked best for the juniors. The juniors crashed into the win column with another decision over the frosh on the
next day. This time, however, the frosh managed to run the score up to more even terms, losing 21-10, 21-14.
The sophs bowed before the march of the seniors to the score of 21-3, 21-4. The seniors went on to
hand the juniors their sole defeat in the closest match of the present season. The winners took the first game
by a rather large margin, 21-12, but were forced to put out to the limit in order to barely eke
out the second game by a two-point margin, 22-20. In the last game, on Tuesday, the sophs defeated the frosh
21-10, 21-8, to put the winners in third place and the losers in the cellar. There are four more games
to be played.

Kitten Tennis Meet Starts

The freshman spring tennis tournament starts the middle of this week, at the close of the varsity tournament. There are
twenty-three entrants in the tourney, one more than in the varsity tourney. Dick Shore, who won the fall tournament, is
seeded one. Miller Sproull, runner-up in the fall tournament, is seeded two, Marshall Foote is seeded three, and Billy Turner
is seeded four.

Boys drawing byes into the second round are Dick Shore, Bill Hamilton, Marshall Foote, Paul Bumbarger, Miller Sproull, Bob Eller,
Bill Turner, Bill Eagan, and Pat Hobson.

You Push It Cars For Rent
M. P. Henderson
GULF GAS & OIL

On Saturday Nights—or any other night—take her out to bowl. She'll like that!

TODAY’S POPULAR SPORT
BOWLING!

Take her where she'll feel at home,
PAUL & CRYMES, Inc.
THE HEALTH CENTER.
THE CHARLOTTE BOWLING CENTER
12114 South Tryon
112 W. First St.

Net Tourney Enters Final Rounds; Tenney Picked to Cop Title

George Jones Pulls Upset By Licking Jimmy Reinhardt in Quarter-Finals—Ed Cloyd Also in Surprise Victory Over Lock

Hunter Enters Finals In Tennis Tourney

The varsity spring tennis tournament is in full swing now with one entrant already in the finals. Rea Tenney defeated
George Jones in a grueling three-set match Monday afternoon 6-3, 2-6, 6-2, to gain the finals.

There were only 22 players in the tournament, most of the first round players therefore received byes. In the second
round, Rea Tenney defeated B. B. Plyer 6-2, 6-3. Loch Hunter was defeated by Ed Cloyd 5-7, 6-3, 7-5. Jim
Reinhardt defeated Rufus Wallace 6-0, 6-0. George Jones defeated Charlie Akers 6-1, 6-4. Bronston Kenney defeated Henry McConnel 6-0, 6-0.
Jim Hartzog was defeated by Lloyd Feuchtenberger 6-3, 6-2. Harry Frampton defeated Oscar Armstrong 6-3, 6-2. Wilson Northcross defeated Locke
White 6-3, 6-3.

Tenney Finalist

In the quarter-finals, Rea Tenney defeated Ed Cloyd 6-2, 6-2. George Jones pulled a big upset in defeating Jim Reinhardt
4-6, 6-1, 6-4 in a closely contested match. Bronston Kenney defeated Lloyd Feuchtenberger 6-3, 6-1. Harry Frampton defeated Wilson Northcross
6-3, 6-4. Bronston Kenney will meet Harry Frampton in the semi-finals, and the winner will play Rea Tenney for the
number one position on the team. In the tournament, Rea Tenney was seeded one, Bronston Kenney two, Harry Frampton three,
and Jim Reinhardt four.

Best Tourney

All matches to date have been hotly contested, and Manager Feuchtenberger pronounced it as one of the most successful tournaments
ever held. At the conclusion of the tournament, a tennis ladder will be arranged by which men may work up
to positions higher by defeating the man above them on the ladder. Two more matches have been added to the
schedule since its publication in the last Davidsonian. Furman University will be met on April 11 on the home courts,
while Stetson University was added to the list of opponents for the trip during spring holidays, and will be met
March 31.

Bowling! Billiards!
REX RECREATION —and— 20th CENTURY BOWLING
AIR-CONDITIONED YEAR ROUND
FREE TELEPHONE

IT’S GOT THE WHOLE TOWN TALKING

On the Stage
The show of shows... one that is different, a show full of singing, dancing, swinging, prancing and above all good
entertainment.
TOWN SCANDALS
A Show Utterly Packed with YOUTH .. PEP .. GAIETY ..
18—PEOPLE—18

On the Screen
Stuart Erwin
Glenda Farrell
in
“DANCE CHARLIE DANCE”
A delightful comedy that is presented as only these two fun-makers can.

FRI. & SAT.
BROADWAY
