——Campus. -Lew «an the annual expect to col- Page Two — The Davidsonian Founded By the Class of 1915 1937
Member 1938 Associated Collegiate Press Distributor of Collegiate Digest Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson” Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING
COMPANY Charlotte, North Carolina SUBSCRIPTION RATES Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY National
Advertising Service, Inc. College Publishers Representative 420 MADISON Ave NEW YORK, N.Y. CHICAGO - BOSTON - LOS ANGELES - SAN
FRANCISCO Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879.
DICK VOWLES Editor-in-Chief CHARLES MOORE Business Manager Fitzhugh Dade Assistant Editor Managing Editor Wesley Coghill Managing Editor Terrell Porter Managing
Editor Perry Sloan Managing Editor Bill Marquess Sports Editor Owen Cooke Associate Editor Sam Cothran Associate Editor Euclid Fant Associate
Editor Associate Editor Associate Editor Sam Ryburn Art Editor Henry Baker Movie Editor BUSINESS STAFF Collection Manager Wesley Coghill Latimer
Advertising Manager Ian Miller Asst. Advertising Manager Andy Turner Circulation Manager Terrell Porter Circulation Manager Sam Hemphill Asst. Business Manager
THIS WEEK: First Page Third Page Joe Calvin Terrell Porter Fifth Page Perry Sloan Sixth Page Wesley Coghill Assignments Ovid
Belly Live near to God, and so all things will Appear to you little in comparison with eternal realities. —R.
M. CHEYNE. Annual Fees... Honorary fraternities on the campus were faced Tuesday morning with Quips and Cranks invoices demanding, for
one page in the annual, approximately the same fee charged for two pages last year. The annual staff stated that
the purpose of this was for the betterment of the yearbook, in order that it might be on a par
with other annuals in the state. No honorary was consulted as to its financial status, no notice was given of
increased prices, no contracts were presented, but the invoices arrived without warning demanding the exorbitant sum payable February 15. Is
this good business? When a firm or an individual pays a bill, he pays for something for which he has
contracted. The annual should certainly be conducted on a business-like basis. We venture to say that no honorary on the
campus can stand this fee without assessments, which are certainly not available. The average honorary fraternity treasury never contains as
much as the annual demands. It is not worth it to the average man in an honorary fraternity to have
to go to this additional expense. What assurance do the honoraries have that the other sections are not being improved
at their expense? After all, not a great deal can be done to improve the honorary section of the book.
Nor are the honorary fraternities the only organization hit. As far as can be ascertained fees have been raised all
over the lot. How can the annual expect to collect these fees when it dictatorially sets rates without consulting those
who must bear the brunt of the burden? A Miracle Has Been Worked (The Davidson student body might well profit
by the example set by N.C. State College as exhibited in the following editorial from the Technician, N.C. State weekly
newspaper). A miracle has been worked. At the Duke-State basketball game Tuesday night the State College students showed a critical
press that they were not only a bunch of gentlemen, but that they knew how to act like gentlemen. And
was the change in spirit noticed? The students had not even left the crowded gymnasium before the radio lanes were
buzzing with the news that State College students had exhibited themselves in a manner exceedingly commendable of any student body,
and that other North Carolina schools might well profit if they would follow our example. “We have never seen a
finer spirit of sportsmanship than was shown by the State College student body to their visitors from Duke,” said J.
B. Clark, of radio station WPTEF, in a post-game summary. But there is still a certain type of student at
this school that we must eliminate, because that type is composed of boys who grossly misrepresent the College and the
Student Body by their ungentlemanly actions. Many people have said that eliminating such a student would be a difficult task.
But if we will show him the kind of treatment he deserves when his actions are reprehensible, you will soon
have a better student or one who is ready to pack his trunk and go home where he can associate
with people of his own caste. Away With ‘Hell Week’... College life is gradually becoming more and more civilized, and
life at Davidson is no exception. When several of the national fraternities here voted to do as their grand chapters
wished and banished “Hell Week” forever, a lengthy stride in fraternity progress was made. However, the move has not yet
been unanimous on the campus. And college life will never cease to be somewhat of a caricature in the eyes
of outsiders until “Hell Week” has disappeared forever. Granted that freshmen need discipline, and that a certain amount should be
judiciously administered. The only good that the upperclassman can derive from seeing the embarrassment of the pledge is a sadist
pleasure. Very seldom has the system ever proved to have any disciplinary values. The antics of a fraternity’s freshmen hurt
the reputation of the group in the eyes of others in many cases. The fraternity aids materially in lowering the
freshman’s standard of work, by giving him a poor start in the second semester, when what he really needs is
help. What could be more thoughtless than the fraternity’s requirement that the freshman must carry around with him at all
times a varied assortment of mints, chewing gum, and cigarettes. The financial responsibilities of a fraternity are enough without imposing
foolish, selfish ways for the pledge to waste his money. All we ask you to do is to be civilized
about this and aid in abolishing forever this system. If you must put the freshmen through some ordeal, do as
has been recommended by many grand chapters, establish a “work week,” and get the freshmen to do those little things
around the house and the boarding house that somehow never get done. The motion is before the floor: “Away with
‘Hell Week’.” All in favor? Senior Slants “Cause and Effect” Having arrived at the estate of a so-called “dignified Senior”
and being brought face to face with the opportunity to contribute a bit to the newspaper that one has been
too prone to criticize, you’d be rather surprised at how undignified you feel and how like a Freshman’s theme thoughts
your ideas are. However, one or two ideas have been dwelling with the writer lately and in his Fourth Year
Freshman way he’d like to pass them on. Several years back, in a column similar to this, a writer analyzed
the currently criticized Davidson spirit. It struck me very forcefully and from it my mind has seemed to account for
this nebulous yet real force in two things — the personnel of the student body and certain institutions we have
here at college. As regards personnel, Davidson can be justly proud of its men, for no matter how great a
college is if it hasn’t the raw materials to work with it cannot turn out superior products. Along this line,
I wonder if maybe a more careful selection of incoming men might not make the name of the college even
greater. Some selectivity is exercised now, but certainly the “mortality rate” should not be as high as at the end
of this semester. Would not a system of entrance exams, college boards or the like, coupled together with personal interviews
make our student body even finer? A committee on admissions could handle such a problem, and eliminate many of the
“sudden deaths” through more careful selection according to ability rather than by priority of application. Having made such a selection,
tradition alone cannot mold the men in the Davidson way. True it can do a lot, but there is one
influence in particular that has done and is doing more towards fostering this spirit than anything else — the chapel
and church hours. Doubtless all of us rebel at the compulsion of these at one time or another, yet they
are the integrating force of Davidson College. In them we find a bond of union and of idealism, which is
too often neglected in our modern education. It is the one time each day when we meet together as a
unit. Think of college without them, and possibly you can better realize what they are to us. We would not
have that feeling of oneness, we would not have that common ground of inspiration and aspiration, we would not have
Davidson. —BILL KIESEWETTER, THE DAVIDSONIAN Col. GEO. C. MUG, DIRECTOR OF THE U. OF TEXAS BAND, ONCE TRAVELED OVER 27000
MILES TO PLAY A SINGLE NOTE! HE WENT TO CALCUTTA, INDIA, TO PLAY ONE NOTE, B FLAT, ON A FRENCH
HORN IN ONE OF BEETHOVEN'S SYMPHONIES. Wheaton COLLEGE (ILL) BANS SMOKING, DANCING, DRAMATICS, CARDS, DRINKING, AND THEATER AND MOVIE ATTENDANCE.
STILL IT IS THE FASTEST GROWING COLLEGE IN AMERICA TODAY! SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA, HAS EIGHT INDIANA MEN ON ITS BASKETBALL TEAM
AND TEN CANADIANS ON THE HOCKEY SQUAD! Letters to the Editor (Letters over 30 words in length subject to cutting.
All letters considered for publication must be signed, although the signature may be withheld if desired). W. C. U.N. C.
GIRLS LIKE BUNNY... Dear Bobby Arrowsmith: As for W. C. U.N. C. sophomores who have just returned from the Clemson
Mid-Winters, let us say that Bunny Berigan is tops. We honestly believe that you couldn't have picked a better orchestra.
Swing it on down with “Rabbit” Berigan next weekend if you wish to have the time of your life. Hoping
that you have as nice a time as we did at Clemson, We Remain, MARIE DIMMETTE, EVELYN HOWELL, LET THE
FROSH VOTE... Dear Editor: “We hold these truths to be self-evident... government deriving their power from the consent of the
governed...” go read excerpts from the divinely inspired Declaration of Independence. To Davidson men believing in these fundamental truths of
democracy this should have a pregnant significance, for under our student body constitution the freshman class is governed without its
consent. To be specific, the freshman class is denied the right to vote for the officers, with one exception, that
will govern them during their SOPHOMORE year. What greater hypocritical insult could be hurled at the form of government in
which we profess to believe? The basis upon which this right, a right that had existed for a century, was
deniedWas that freshmen are not qualified to vote. Besides being an insult to democracy, this is an insult to reason,
for by a simple analytical test it can be proved that the qualifications of a freshman as a voter far
out-rank those of a senior. Have we forgotten how to think? It certainly seems so, for by taking a representative
group from both freshman and senior class in the month of March, it is universally admitted that the first-year class
knows by far the greater number of men in the lower three classes. Who votes on the basis of friendship
and who on an idealistic weighing of the qualifications of the candidates? Can the junior or senior be blamed for
voting for his personal friend? Not if he is capable of a genuine friendship, while the freshman has only a
very limited opportunity, if allowed to vote, to cast his ballot for a personal friend, because the rule is that
the majority of his close friends are in his own class by reason of common problems and environment. Again, the
average senior’s interest in the future certainly does not connect itself with that of his alma mater, while the freshman
with three years of college life before him is again by reason more interested in his school. If you were
to put this in the form of a question and receive an honest answer, the average senior would confirm this
view. However, taking precedence over all the above points is the glaring truth that if a man in seven months
can't learn enough to cast an intelligent vote, then there is little hope of him doing so in four years,
and on top of that, he is too dull to be in college. From what fruit does this giant eat
that in short months he grows so tall? Well, you will say, in 1936 it was proposed to let the
freshman vote, but this proposal was defeated. Why? Simply because the typical Davidson man says, “I was not allowed to
vote as a freshman, why should I allow others to enjoy a right that I was denied?” This is an
actual quotation and significantly, an additional proof that the seniors who argue so are not the well-qualified voters they profess
to be. The reader will ask, “Why get so heated up over a question that has been more or less
dormant for four years?” The answer being that it is essential to the well-being of our college in order to
preserve our famous “Wildcat spirit” from the (Continued on Page Six)

From Campus to Campus

Two scientists at the University of Nebraska medical college have announced the discovery of a new local anesthetic, “more pleasant
and safer than many administered today.” The drug has a handy little label — B — diethylaminoethyl 4 ethoxy benzoate
— and for four years has been the subject of research and experimentation on the part of Dr. A. R.
McIntyre, chairman of the department of physiology and pharmacology, and R. F. Sievers, an advanced student working under a fellowship.
Scientists say the new product deadens pain immediately after injection, whereas other drugs often take several minutes. It is sometimes
effective as long as 90 minutes. It has been used in 100 dental surgery cases without an unfavorable report.

Aroused Montana State University students charged recently an invasion of their rights of self-government after demands of the musicians’ union
that students be paid union wages while rehearsing for a college musical comedy. They were forced to abandon their show.

Men who stand high in college studies have more children than those of low standing; but even so, college men
are a dying race from the point of view of having enough children to reproduce their kind, according to a
Brown University report.

Henderson Jewelry Shop
Watch and Jewelry Repairing
NOW IN KNOX BUILDING

King For A Day
1938 — Wednesday, Feb.

My thoughts are very bitter — four years of collegiate stuitings in ler, to filter social sewerage. And the part
that hurts is that I like it. Some few folks like good music, still fewer enjoy fine art, but ME
... I have to revel in dirt ... just individualistic, I suppose, but there is a certain pain in being
forced to admit kinship with a worm — there are so many around here that I don't like. However, among
those associates that rate favorably, the following stand out: Deplore the departure of Mister Florence and implore the Fates to
carry him past Monroe, La. — second thought, wedding bells fairly decent music. His faithful lackey, Hambones, intends to join
him soon perhaps in the capacity of best man. Dear Captain Holt, I understand completely that the world has become
your barnyard, but doesn’t this lately acquired bit of femininity? Most chickens can scratch a little, especially with Mid-Winter feed
sprinkled over the ground. Incidentally, concerning Mid-Winter dances, don’t let me see you consorting with those Dreadful Dregs from the
Carolina corners — if you know what I mean. But let me see you there. Berrigan'll be fine, the ladies
better, and the decorations superb. Also, watch for the “figure” Friday night — it’ll have “kicks.” Wait and see!

Inwardly elated at the censorable story told on three muscle men, Messrs Baby Fort, Charlie Parker, and Skinny Lowrance concerning
three equally muscular young ladies ... it happened in Christianburg. Pete Marchant, who jointly owns a tavern corner with Mister
Phillip Mayhew, has a feud on his hands with one young waitress ... Walter Harper and Russell Edmundson, quite adept
in terpsichorean pursuits, illustrated their wares with a twenty-year-old bride of one month. Irresistibly impelled by the lure and fascination
of a certain Salisbury Salome, one Henry Lyons dashed into her shop and got his hair cut. The instrument used
in the shearing was a simple one — a huge red Valentine with the hopeless word SUCKER inscribed thereon. For
your information, this is known in some circles as “The Supreme Fluff-off.” ... Bud Ingram, Holmes Hansel, and John Ransom
vamped by dwarfy dates at a stickchorean ... Harrison and Glenn, stranded in Salisbury, then lost two days in Greensboro
... An actual cutting took place when Torrey “Blue Boy” McLean succumbed to the clippers of one dainty damsel ...
a lotta hair being let down lately, one way or another ... J. Chalk, our juvenile star, dating a twelve-year-old
— wonder why he didn’t go to a Tenn. mountain school ... "Stud" Steer steered stealthily — but no date
... Aycock and T. J. Turner in masterful entry to Greensboro for censored purposes — so I hear ... Tom
Crayton, Charlie Smith and the inevitable Marchant previewed Berrigan at Clemson dances and were amused by some foreign method ...
At last through the muck, I wonder if you guys are hepped up over the coming weekend like I am
— Y'know, ladies and all — or has this celibatic life dissolved your normal concepts.

Stray Shots ... Suggested use for the new road on the campus: For boys to hitchhike from out of their
windows when it rains. It would be no trouble, just re-route the traffic to Charlotte. We should thank Mr. Stough
for giving us so many good dime picture shows. The only trouble is that he charges us twenty-five cents to
see them. Who was it that said that twenty-eight to thirty are the best ten years of a woman’s life?
It was in an English class here in school that a professor said the feminine gender is gradually changing to
the neuter gender. The following statement was written on the board in one of our more popular classrooms: "No cat
has ten tails. Every cat has one tail more than no cat." (Education is a wonderful thing).

Things ... (we could do without): The bell ringing during chapel talks. Cigarette flipping during matinees. Double cuts on all
the good weekends. Having to get up for dinner on Sunday mornings. Classes, school, exams, and reviews. (We could do
with more of) Popeye. More mail. More sleep.

Have You Seen... Have you ever seen the automatic bell ringing control in the banquet hall of Chambers building? It
is on the right as you enter and is really worth stopping to look at some day. It has an
arrangement for every day in the week and can be set to do most anything that could be imagined. It
is even so good that if the current is turned off for any time less than an hour it will
make up the lost time by itself with no outside interference. Have you ever seen that old bench in front
of the so-called new gym? It is an old wooden bench built between two trees and has been there as
long as most can remember. Or have you ever seen that old sign over the front porch of the old
gym? It is an old sign where the R. O. T. C Department used to be. Have you ever seen
the time when you weren't behind in your school work?

Take It Easy
By Rut Miller

A Large Edition... “May I print a kiss on your lips?” I asked; She nodded her sweet permission. So we
went to press, and I rather guess We printed a large edition.

Thumb Nail Sketch ... Large and corpulent: W. C. Fields’ nose: a high forehead rising to a half-bald head. Piercing
voice, a raucous singer of hill-billy ballads. A thirsty search for the sensational omnipresent camera; a scintillating pen from which
flows remarkable collections of ink, the excellence of which is never suspected from the writer's looks and actions. Yes, he
is largely responsible for Davidson’s recent far-flung publicity and place on the map. And is closely connected with the alumni.
Is accused by students of frequent lacerations of the throat because of vociferous neckties. Toastmaster par excellence. Successful in the
screwy realm of publicity. He has been at school for only a year and a half but already has had
his name in print more than any other person in school. His favorite sport is picking sponsors for football games.

Parting Thought ... MONEY: That which will take you any place you want to go except Heaven; and will get
you anything you want on this earth, except happiness.

In Person on the Stage
WILL OSBORNE AND HIS ORCHESTRA
With... JANICE TODD
In a... SWING SESSION
THURS. NIGHT 11:15 P. M.
Admission .. 5S
Come on down and see the kind of show that made Benny Goodman famous!
CAROLINA Theatre - Charlotte, N. C.

VALUABLE PREMIUMS GIVEN
MAIL YOUR FILMS TO
Any size roll kodak film developed, eight never-fade Velox prints for only
Low prices on candid film. Handy mailing envelopes furnished.
Jack Rabbit Co.
SPARTANBURG, S. C.
