THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY, NOV. 23, 1938

The Davidsonian
Founded By the Class of 1915

1938 Member 1939
Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON Ave. New York, N. Y.
CHICAGO * BOSTON * LOS ANGELES * SAN FRANCISCO

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879

BILL MARQUESS ... Editor-in-Chief
JOHN LATIMER ... Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
Terrell Porter ... Assistant Editor
Jack Abernathy ... Managing Editor
Charlie Austin ... Managing Editor
Fred Holland ... Managing Editor
Carl Hudson ... Sports Editor
Sam Spencer ... Associate Editor
Tom Casali ... Associate Editor
Ovid Bell ... Associate Editor
Joe Calvin ... Associate Editor
Wesley Coghill ... Associate Editor
Perry Sloan ... Associate Editor
Henry Baker ... Associate Editor
Walt Kunz ... Movie Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
B. B. Plyler ... Business Manager
Jim Currie ... Advertising Manager
Jim Ross ... Advertising Manager
Julian Lokey ... Circulation Manager
Tom Hackney ... Circulation Manager
Bud Gilmore ... Collection Manager

Friday, November 18, should surely be marked as a great day in the history of Davidson, for on that day
a new spirit of cooperation between students and faculty was born. There were not a few staunch Davidsonians who had
grown so pessimistic as to believe that the fine traditions and the spirit of our college lay on their respective
death-beds, but now there is new hope and new life.

Dr. Lingle began the day by appealing to the students for suggestions from them on improvements that might add to
the usefulness of the college, and more particularly on the question before all of us: the new dormitory soon to
be erected. Cognizance of the fact that we live, work, and eat here, and that therefore we might be qualified
as some sort of experts on the more material aspects of collegiate life, was generally appreciated by the students. After
all, we are the ones who may live in rooms which are alternately overheated and deathly chilled.

Then the student body met to hear the plans for a proposed conference committee composed of both faculty and student
leaders. Such an organization certainly has its place on the Davidson campus, for through its operation may come recommendations for
modification of and addition to the present scheme which will make for a greater Davidson, a college which we may
proudly claim as our alma mater and to which our cherished sons may come in due time. Strangely, the proposal
comes as an answer of approval to Dr. Lingle’s appeal.

There comes with such things an obligation which Davidson men—Davidson gentlemen—will hardly fail to meet. That is the obligation to
hold the good of Davidson—not restricted to the “good name” of Davidson but concerned primarily with the welfare of its
student body and faculty—above all else. Pettiness should be avoided, and factions should be forgotten in order that all who
have a part in the institution may be welded into a solid group.

But turn to your calendars and mark November 18, 1939, for the celebration of the first anniversary of a new
spirit on our campus. A child was born in our midst last week, and we should nurse and rear him
to become the fine Davidson gentleman we wish we were.—O.H.B.

* * * * * *

Editorial “We”

There is an old expression among newspaper men that the fondness for the expression “we” in editorial use arises from
a need of intimidating irate readers who might be afraid of tackling more than one editor. Even though it may
be impudent to discredit that explanation, there is another that must admit to editors often themselves. And that is, that
as a class editors are about the worst plagiarists in captivity, and very little of what they write merits the
first person pronoun.

The editor reads and talks and listens to countless expressions of ideas. He may scan a dozen exchanges commenting upon
some news of the day, and talk to a dozen more persons about it. He gets letters and hears radio
commentators. And then when he gets around to writing a piece of his own his mind is a jumble of
many contributions. Very little of what he produces is his own, except the arrangement. Consequently when the editor writes “we,”
he may not only be seeking anonymity but also he may be paying unconscious homage to the ideas that have
come to him in one way or another from others. Maybe the editor is trying to give credit he cannot
place more accurately.

Perhaps it might be well for all persons expressing opinions to say “we think” for the chances are that it
is not the individual who is thinking, but the individual plus a dozen or a hundred or a thousand other
minds with which he has struck fire. And perhaps if we are not quite so personal in our opinions, we
will manage thereby to keep our minds more receptive to new ideas. Because if we become too impressed with our
own brilliance, we may cease to place proper importance upon the idea gems that come to us and our own
progress is thereby slowed down. Which thought, it may be added, came to us from somewhere else, some time, somewhere—Birmingham
News.

As I write this I do not know the results of the vote taken in chapel Tuesday on the proposed
Student-Faculty Conference Committee. However, from the acquiescent approval which the proposal received in chapel Monday, it seems that passage is
very likely. The adoption of such a proposal, and the subsequent functioning of the committee, marks another step forward in
the history of student-faculty relationship at Davidson.

There was a time when it was necessary for faculty members to police the dormitories to see that the Davidson
“gentlemen” were pursuing their studies, and not some luckless freshman. The faculty member whose turn it was to do this
was often the victim of unfortunate “accidents” as he went his rounds through the dim halls of Old Chambers. He
realized that he was taking his life in his hands by venturing into the “enemy’s” camp, but it was his
job. If he could persuade a fellow professor to accompany him—assuming that four fists are better than two—they would together
proceed with their unpleasant duty.

Gradually—Yes, very gradually—Davidson became a more civilized place, and the students proved that they were able to control themselves. Eventually
students enacted measures to expel from the dormitories anyone who made himself obnoxious by interfering with studying conditions. A far
cry from having faculty patrol the dormitories to maintain order.

However, ignorance is ever present, so there has been an increasingly acute need for some means whereby understanding might exist
mutually between the faculty and the students. Much property has been damaged, many fines imposed, and lots of water has
flowed through the nozzle, only to make more dense the misunderstanding.

We have now, however, the proper machinery set up to open the avenues for an interchange of student and faculty
ideas. “True,” I have heard it said, “It is a good set up, but it won’t work.” If that attitude
is taken, of course, it won’t work. The success of the plan depends upon the cooperation of every member of
the faculty and student body. If you have some “viewpoint on a college matter of general interest to the students
or faculty,” don’t sit around forming an opinion based on ignorance and misunderstanding. Come to some member of the committee
and find when you can.

Campus Comments

A sharp warning to college football authorities to keep the game strictly amateur has been made here by Dr. Robert
C. Clothier, president of Rutgers University. “It is our faith that education is the development of the individual to his
full stature in character and intellect, and in physical health and stamina,” the president said in dedicating Rutgers’ new stadium.
“It is also our faith that only as amateurism in spirit as well as in letter is safeguarded in American
athletics will football survive as the great American college game,” he added.

Corvallis, Ore.—(ACP)—At least one college believes—in fact, encourages—apple polishing, if it is of the “intelligent” variety. And here are the
exact words of one professor, Oregon State College’s dean of men, Dr. U. G. Dubach, taken from a recent speech
on the subject: “Apple polishing is an important part in a college man’s education and it must be followed by
diligence in class-work if it is to be useful and effective. Anyone who isn’t wise enough to do intelligent apple
polishing, isn’t wise enough to be in college. Apple polishing, properly defined, is making oneself known to his professors. A
college education, besides giving one technical knowledge, must teach one how to properly sell himself. How can he sell himself
to his professors unless he makes himself known to them in his work and his manner?”

Berkeley, Calif.—(ACP)—Long the subject of unfavorable comment on many campuses, honor societies are given a new shot of life by
University of California student leaders. After formulating a new central group called the Honor Society Coordination Committee, the societies are
now considering the formation of a permanent group which would:

1. Provide a means of exchanging information on such matters as meeting places, banquets and luncheons.
2. Provide a central purchasing bureau for the various honor societies in order to secure lower prices for stationery, pins,
etc.
3. Provide a central headquarters in the Honor Students’ Union for those societies not possessing special meeting places of their
own.
4. Provide free use of the Honor Students’ mimeograph machine and low-cost mailing privileges to interested societies.
5. Provide scholastic records necessary when new members are being chosen.
6. Provide space for honor society notices and information in the columns of the Honor Hi-Lights, Honor Student monthly publication.
7. Cooperate with the societies in arranging joint meetings and faculty dinners and to sponsor discussion groups of those interested
in a common subject.
8. Aid in the formation of new honor societies.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Honor groups in those departments having inactive or no honor societies.

When a woman is lost in happy thoughts she can usually be found in front of the mirror.

Give a dog a good name and he will live up to it.

Present your viewpoint to the committee as a body. There your own ideas will receive respectful attention, you will hear
the viewpoints of others, and possibly a recommendation will be given as to the best course of action. But if
you are not satisfied with the recommendation, you may petition whatever authorities you would have petitioned before this committee was
set up. We have everything to gain and nothing to lose, so let’s make a go of this thing and
call it a success.

Sincerely,
WARREN GAW, Freshman Advisor.

Professors (ACP)—Activities being exchanged, subjects being considered for election to honor societies.

In the Groove
By TOM PERRIN

JOKERS ... We have often noticed, as you may have yourself, that a good many of the messages forwarded to
the president of the student body during chapel aren't read aloud. Being in a curious frame of mind, we went
to headquarters and asked Fred Stair about it. Now we've got more data than we can use.

It seems that most of the unnoticed notices are funny, or are intended to be. Fred edits the announcements as
they come to him, very rarely throwing out one of any serious value. He discards maybe six to twelve a
morning, the quantity of student wit fluctuating from day to day. Some of the notes are funny only to a
knowing clique; some are a little too far on the indelicate side; some are simply mildly insulting notes to Fred;
and many just aren’t quite funny enough to read.

Every time some undergrad trashes one of the Charlotte prints, he becomes the subject of a flood of notices for
a few days. Then somebody will send in a slip that Bill Davis will meet Sociology 99 in room 215
after chapel. (You have to know where 215 is to get the point.) Often, too, Joe College wants to meet
Percival Student under the organ or something equally foolish. The co-eds come in for a lot of attention, as you
might expect.

Classic example of the humorous announcement was read last spring by Charlie Mashburn, if we can trust to memory. All
the upperclass bigwigs were assembled on the platform to take part in a tap day service or something similar when
Charlie read: “There will be a meeting of Alpha Sigma Sigma on the stage during chapel.”

THANKS ... Thanksgiving is being mentioned favorably by all the better—and worse—columnists these days, and we see no reason to
be an exception. You'll hear from others how thankful you should be that the dictators don’t rule you (yet), and
that the Martians haven't attacked in earnest, etc. But we Davidsonians have a less general list that we are grateful
for in particular.

We are glad the football teams did better than the writers thought possible and more. We feel good about the
new dormitory, and the prospect of improved relationships between the student body and faculty. We're thankful reviews are over for
a while, and that there'll be a twenty-four hour recess Thursday, and that we've been promised a really good meal
at the boarding house. Most especially we are glad to see Christmas holidays only three weeks off, come next Friday.

NEW DORM ... As we have said before,—we'll be glad to see the new sleephouse. We've been wondering, though, where
it will be, what's its name, and whether it will replace the barracks. (Haven't we heard they were “temporary?”) Like
everybody else we have ideas for improvements the new place ought to have, too. Like non-squeak floors and bigger closets
recessed into the walls. Incidentally, we suppose the authorities must realize it wouldn't do to use all the good suggestions
offered. Inmates of the other dorms would never be satisfied, then.

SUPER SNOOPINGS
By KEN LAWSON

For the straight dope, Miss Peggy Dunaway holds top honors as the most lucrative source of information for your columnist,
about Davidson as seen through a woman's eyes. But I am not worried; the wages of one cent a month
doled out by business manager Latimer are enough to discourage any prolific writer from attempting to usurp my position. With
charming Miss Dunaway giving all the straight dope, however, writing the column is as easy as editing the pranks—all you
need is a sharp pair of scissors.

Scrips you missed in case any of the column in last Sunday's Observer here is a significant paragraph. “Since women
are only half the world and the other half is dope man—here this week’s exciting news goes: Cage Brewer, at
Davidson; Annual editor of the Phi Gamma Delta and manager of the football team; seems to be a second Tyrone
Power . . . (or rather that’s what I’ve heard). He spends a lot more time in Charlotte. What's the
attraction? Gene Lippert, better known as “Colonial” spent the weekend at Randolph Macon in Lynchburg. I wonder how many hearts
he broke. (He does have qualities many fems fall for).”

Note: The spelling concerning the name of Colonel Liipfert is Miss Dunaway’s not ours. Also, more dope on Cage Brewer
can be found in the Central High paper last week; we'll allow you to look that up for yourself.

A dismal, dreary Saturday, enlivened only by the splashing of puddles by hurrying feet and the broadcast of the Duke-State
game, kept Byronic spirits subdued to the extent that very little of columnistic note occurred to set my typewriter keys
a-flying. There is something about a rainy weekend in Davidson which brings out the latent morbid spirits in the average
college boy to the extent that all plans for interesting affairs become submerged to the inane desire to mope around
and sleep or dig out old phonograph records to play while all ambition steals away with the fleeting seconds.

Even the gruesome scene pictured was not enough to keep several of the fellows from indulging in a more spirited
weekend. We have notes especially these: Miller Sproull and Bob “Bone” Reinhardt doing invaluable research on their favorite theme “Love
Without Tears”... Bill Masters afraid that it was going to stop raining Saturday night... Johnny Sadler and Jake Houston waging
war over Roberta Jornay, Mrs. Roosevelt's dancing protege... Caton Dennis proved beyond doubt to be the original “Broadway”... George Ficklen
holding up the musical program at Queens for unascertained reason... Plenty of dope on Bob Scarborough and a local young
lady which you can get from any of his Phi Delt “buddies”... “Egg Head” Charlie Smith finding out baby powder
is no good for a ruined tire... Karl Jonas in a memorable taxi ride out to the home of Miss
Wiley... Ad Long a connoisseur of feminine pulchritude... Prospector Toby Conyers stumbling onto a gold mine this week... Dick Aycock
decidedly in favor of blondes... John Throop snaking heavily on unsuspecting Ken Darby who traveled up Sweet Briar way. We
also heard something about a street corner incident... Bill Johnson working mightily to become the head man with “Butch” Steele.

We just couldn't close without mentioning the sad decline of one William G. Davis who fell from his position of
chief autograph giver at Queens-Chicora Thursday night to a lonely night in his own home town Saturday night. It is
just the old case of a super-powered motor hitting on only one cylinder.

THIS COLLEGIATE WORLD

This being old gag week in this collegiate world, we hold annual homecoming for gags that should give you a
chuckle or two:

Number One: A St. Olaf College lad and his lassie were watching a recent football match. The fellow turned to
the girl and said, “See Ose out there? He'll be our best man some day.” Whereupon the fair young thing
blushed prettily and replied, “Oh, this is so sudden!”

Number Two: A University of Minnesota Daily columnist says he is doing his best “to ignore a note which says
that a girl in general college thinks a head linesman is a newspaperman.”

With those two thoroughly home-comed, we can't resist telling you about a most serious condition on the Oberlin campus. It
seems there are not adequate bathing facilities in the freshmen rooming houses. Says the student newspaper about the situation: “We
declare dogmatically that one bathtub is not enough for thirteen men.” And we declare just as dogmatically, one bathtub is
not enough for two men.

Now to get to the girls’ punishment. The Kappa Kappa Gamma girls ate onions and brains and left their make-up
kits at home the next day. They also cleaned house until early in the morning and slept on hard floors
all night. The Alpha Gam's managed to get cold water baths from their members and all the fraternities around joined
in and gave them a good ducking. Alpha Chi's were given a good tubbing and brought up before their president
to drink a mysterious potion. The Chi Omega’s cleaned all the dishes and clothes for the members.

Wayne's “stop and go” light, a comparatively simple device, works on the same principle as a regular traffic signal. Containing
three bulbs mounted on a board fastened to a wooden base, it is operated by a class timekeeper. As the
speaker begins his discussion, the timekeeper switches on the green light. When 4 minutes have elapsed, the amber bulb signals
a warning to the speaker. The red light flashes the “stop” signal at the end of five minutes.
