Page Six THE DAVIDSONIAN

Queens-Chicora Society To Be Guests of Phis

Spectator Club Will Be Present at Joint Meeting on October 14th

Plans are being completed by the Philanthropic Literary Society for a joint meeting with the Spectator Club of Queens-Chicora College of Charlotte. President Rod Williams of the Phi Society has been conferring with Miss Olive Croswell, president of the Queens group, about this social which is to be held on Friday night, October 14. Williams stated that both old members of the Phi Society and the candidates for admission will be in attendance at this affair. It will be recalled that a similar meeting was held last spring, as well as one the preceding fall. At the group's last meeting in Phi Hall, Tuesday night, September 27, a business session was held in which many plans for the improvement of the organization were discussed. Only old members of the club were present since the candidates for admission were voted upon.

Bids have been sent out to 12 upperclassmen who will present themselves as candidates Tuesday evening, October 11, at 7:30. Before these candidates can receive initiation an original composition must be rendered to the society and approved by the membership committee. Several other upperclassmen and also a number of aspiring freshmen will be invited to attend this same meeting for consideration by the house. As the society membership is to be strictly limited to fifty members, it was stated that competition will be keen.

AMONG THE GREEKS

Pledge Bob Powell went to the Salem dance, and Eddie Steere went to Asheboro. The Beta delegation to Charlotte was made up of brothers Squires, Abbott, J. Howell, McLeskey, McAfee, Bryant and Morrow.

Pi Kappa Phi—
Bill Masters and Bobby Gish were entertained by a host of Iredell county officials at the Iredell County Fair in Statesville over the weekend. To home went Bid Ivey to Rock Hill and pledge Suttlemeyer to Hickory. Attending State dances were pledges Garvey and Herring, and Harry Hendrix visited Salem’s jamboree. Brother Flynn's complete wardrobe is due to the fact that he stepped out to Charlotte Saturday. Bill Ward visited Charles Linville at his home in Winston-Salem. Officers of the Pi Kap pledge group are: President, Bob Garvey; vice president, Sam Woodward; secretary, Newt Edwards; and Charlie Linville, treasurer.

Pi Kappa Alpha—
Brothers Jack Abels, Scot Raynal and John Reisner visited Wake Forest over the weekend to look over a local fraternity there. Marion Sink went to Durham and the game, Vernon Youngblood and Paul Lady visited their homes in Concord, and pledge brother Ray Hoover went to Wilmington. George Marsh and Joe Brinson went to High Point, and many had dates in Salisbury and Charlotte. At the feed Sunday evening guests included the parents of Toddy Latimer and Ralph Monger.

THREE TEAMS

(Continued from Page Four)

Honorary Fraternity Schedule 1938-1939

FIRST AND THIRD WEEKS

TIME | MONDAY | TUESDAY | WEDNESDAY | THURSDAY | FRIDAY
7:00 | Sigma Pi | Philanthropic and Eumenean Societies | Scabbard and Blade | Pi Gamma Mu
8:00 | Phi Sigma Alpha | Psi Omega | Beta Delta and Red & Black Masquers
9:00 | Kappa Sigma | YMCA | International Relations Club
10:00 | Pi Delta

SECOND AND FOURTH WEEKS

TIME | MONDAY | TUESDAY | WEDNESDAY | THURSDAY | FRIDAY
8:00 | Delta Alpha | SOCIAL | Alpha Epsilon | YMCA Cabinet
9:00 | Alpha Francais | Sigma Upsilon

Dr. Price Gwynn Leads Sunday School Meeting

At the regular meeting last Sunday of the College Sunday School class, Dr. Price Gwynn, professor of psychology, spoke on “False Gods at Davidson.” Nearly sixty students filled the Phi Hall at this time. Dr. Gwynn interpreted the first commandment as his text: “Thou shalt have no other Gods before me” in a literal sense as the theme of his talk. He said that the sin of this nature is both among the students of Davidson and among the faculty. Putting lesser things first; in other words, Dr. Gwynn said, is the worship of passing pleasures, the superficiality, and finally the worship of the fact that Davidson is one of the finer colleges in the south and should be living on its reputation.

On the program committee are Bob Kellog, Stitt Robinson, George Milne and John Mawhinney. President “Boo” Walker stated that the regular meetings of the society will be devoted to a serious effort to improve the literary talents of the members. He said that the candidates for admission would be passed upon by the membership committee in a special session. This is expected to leave more time in the regular meetings for purely literary activities. Walker added that he planned to eliminate social affairs from the club’s program since he feels that they may be more effectively handled through other channels.

YMCA Committee Goes To Bessemer’s Church

Sunday morning a Y. M. C. A. deputation went to the First Presbyterian Church of Bessemer City. Filling the pulpit for the regular pastor, Mr. Hunter, Bill Diehl led the service and Archie Torrey preached the sermon. Davidson students have been substituting for Mr. Hunter, Davidson, ‘18, who is ill.

Frosh Attend Big Pep Meet

Amidst a downpour of rain came a host of upperclassmen to the pep meeting, held in the gymnasium last Thursday night to give the team a great send-off to the Duke-Davidson game.ness. Each freshman was required to register, and, after checking the list, Dick Taylor, chief cheerleader, called the names. A large number of students also taught Sunday School at points near Davidson. They were Eldridge Brown, Lister Skinner, Bob Peppers, Russell Smith, Dick Binkley, Don Hott, Bob Walker, Bob Ramsey, Chal Vinson, Sid Crane, Tom Fry, Rod Williams, Ivan Nelson, Dave McLeod, John Hay, Boyd Flynn, Glenn Terrell, Dave Sprunt, Dave Woodward, Gordon Riggan, Joe Hopper, Ken McIntyre, and Shaw Smith.

In this plan, two freshmen are called on to make a short talk on their outlook toward the game. At the last meeting, Harry Suttenfield and Page Royster gave two very fine talks. The highlight of the evening was the talk by Ned Iverson. He laid great stress on "school spirit" and brought out the fact that "school spirit is nothing to be laughed at, but something to be proud of."

AUTHOR SENDS [Continued from Page One]

Thur.-Fri.-Sat.
The First Football Hit of 1938!!
Touchdown Army
All of the fun and excitement of the Army-Navy Game! A $250,000 Movie Quiz Picture!

Re-Weaving Service
Burns and Tears Rewoven
501 Independence Bldg.
Charlotte, N.C.

Dr. Gwynn said, "Next week I will again talk to this class on 'Christian Self Reliance.' Always look on the bright side, but if you are buying things, it is well to look at both sides. Depend more on God and less on oneself."

Decca, Vocalion, Bluebird
35c—75c Each. Any record not in stock can be quickly secured. Phone 8257.
Victor, Brunswick

ROLLS DEVELOPED
Any size roll kodak film developed with never-fade Velox prints for only 25c. Valuable premiums given. Mail your films to:

Jack Rabbit Co.
Spartanburg, S.C.

Starts Monday
ALL NEXT WEEK
Sonja HENIE
RICHARD GREENE
JOAN DAVIS
BUDDY EBSEN
in
"MY LUCKY STAR"

Despite the rain and the wet, muddy ground on Thursday, two football games were played. The Seniors beat the Juniors 12-0, and the Sophomores beat the Freshmen 6-0. The Seniors proved to be superior to a patched-up Junior team by winning decisively. Passes from Hemphill were pulled out of the air by Ralph Monger and Steve Fowler for the scoring of the game. The Sophomores did not have much trouble in winning against the Frosh in the second game of the afternoon, with a lucky pass from Williams to Joe Seren being the deciding factor.

The lowly Frosh threw a tremendous scare into the Juniors on Monday afternoon by almost beating them, but the upperclassmen eked out a 6-0 win, scoring on a pass from Hunter to Casali, over the head of a substitute player. The Freshmen scored four first downs to the Juniors' three, and the game ended with the Frosh having the ball on the Juniors’ five-yard line.

BEAVERS ENTERTAIN [Continued from Page Three]

This includes the entertainment of visiting teams, in particular. Last year the members took care of the students who came here for the Junior College Basketball Tournament. The high school bands which the Beavers will entertain this weekend have been invited by the music department to play at the game Friday afternoon. This is part of a program designed by Mr. Pfohl, director of music, to add interest and between-the-halves entertainment to the games. Other bands which will perform at later games will include one composed of summer school students and another made up of alumni of the college and of the band.

DRY GOODS
GROCERIES
RADIO SUPPLIES
HARDWARE

M.H. GOODRUM & CO.
Zenith & R.C.A. Radios

DON’T WALK! RIDE IN ONE OF PREACHER’S PUSH-ITS

MEATS and Groceries
"BEST BY TEST"

PAUL WHITEMAN
Every Wednesday Evening
GEORGE BURNS
GRACIE ALLEN
Every Friday Evening
All C.B.S. Stations

EDDIE DOOLEY
Football Highlights
Every Thursday and Saturday
52 Leading N.B.C. Stations

Dial 5041
M.P. Henderson
Davidson, N.C.

J.K. Hampton
—GULF GAS & OIL—
Grocery

Copyright 1938, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.

"You could man a fleet with the fellows asking for Chesterfields today!" Millions of smokers are signing up with Chesterfields, glad to find a cigarette that has what they want... refreshing MILDNESS, better TASTE, pleasing AROMA. And here’s why... Chesterfields give you the best ingredients a cigarette can have... mild ripe tobaccos and pure cigarette paper... with MORE PLEASURE for millions.