Page Two; The Davidsonian

Founded By the Class of 1915

1937 Member 1938
Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON AVE
New York, N.Y.
Chicago - Boston - Los Angeles - San Francisco

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879.

DICK VOWLES ........................................ Editor-in-Chief
CHARLES MOORE .................................. Business Manager

Fitzhugh Dade ........................................ Assistant Editor
Ovid Bell ................................................. Managing Editor
Joe Calvin ............................................... Managing Editor
Wesley Coghill ........................................ Managing Editor
Terrell Porter .......................................... Managing Editor
Perry Sloan ............................................. Managing Editor
Bill Marquess ......................................... Sports Editor
Owen Cooke ........................................... Associate Editor
Sam Cothran .......................................... Associate Editor
Euclid Pannill ......................................... Associate Editor
Hector McGeachy .................................. Associate Editor
Yates Faison ........................................... Associate Editor
Sam Rayburn .......................................... Art Editor
Henry Baker ........................................... Movie Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
Wesley Coghill ....................................... Collection Manager
Joe Latimer ............................................. Advertising Manager
Bill Miller ................................................ Asst. Advertising Manager
Andy Turner ........................................... Circulation Manager
Terrell Porter .......................................... Circulation Manager
Sam Kemp ............................................... Asst. Business Manager

THIS WEEK:
Page One ............................................... Terry Sloan
Page Three ........................................... Ovid Bell
Page Five ............................................... Yates Faison
Page Eight ........................................... Joe Calvin
Assignment .......................................... Wesley Coghill, Terrell Porter

You cannot dream yourself into a character: You must hammer and forge yourself one. — Henry David Thoreau.

The New Infirmary
Davidson College, its students, faculty, alumni, and all connected with the institution can well be proud of the new infirmary.
Not only is there just reason to be proud of the adequate and up-to-date medical facilities and the well-furnished hospital
rooms, but there is even more reason to be proud of the fact that the first stone in the foundation
of Davidson College's building campaign has been laid. Those who, through their generous donations, enabled the building of the infirmary
can feel that they have done the College a great service, a service that will be lasting in the future
of Davidson College. To those friends, we express our heartfelt gratitude. Our greatest appreciation goes also to those who, through
their efforts in other than pecuniary form, aided in the erection of the infirmary. Davidson College has made a great
stride in progress. Need we say more?

Poll Results...
Results of the “You Be The Editor” poll were most informative and provided us, the staff, with a most advantageous
key to what the student body wants in its paper. However, do not expect that your suggestions will necessarily be
carried out right away or at all. If humanly possible and advisable, your ideas will be incorporated into the paper.
Without a doubt, the main want of the paper is informal campus snapshots, according to student opinion. And we would
be glad to oblige if only we were not on the rock bottom of our cue fund already. Beginning with
this issue, we resume “Campus Comments” under a different name, at your request. To you freshmen, we have not used
your opinions in “Question of the Week” for the reason that we have no cuts of you. We found much
to our surprise that editorials were sometimes read, so we will attempt to turn out well-thought-out and better-written opinions. No
more “Around Washington” in forthcoming issues but occasionally a column of news from other colleges. We agree with you that
more accuracy, less editorializing in news stories, and better-written stories should be at the top of our “must” list. Your
comments have been carefully read and will be circulated through the staff as need arises. Now, we know to a
much greater extent “where we stand.” We know what you of the student body and the faculty think. Now the
responsibility is ours.

Anti-Nazi League...
A rather interesting and striking piece of propaganda literature came to us via the mails some days ago. Entitled “The
Anti-Nazi Bulletin,” the main purpose of that issue seemed to be the instruction of the Anti-Nazi League members on how
to successfully maintain and continue their Anti-German Boycott. For these instructions, we quote one paragraph:

“Recent Nazi-German developments in the field of medicine include a quinine substitute known as ‘Atebrin’ and some new pectin preparations
for the control of internal and external hemorrhages. Physicians and pharmacists should guard against the use of these products. Examine
labels for the ‘Made in Germany’ mark.”

We do not support or favor Nazi principles of government nor do we care to attack the reasons for the
existence of the Anti-Nazi League. There may be some basis for the Anti-German boycott, but when a boycott of this
nature interferes with something bigger, something a great deal more important to human life, the advancement of medicine, then the
league defeats its own purposes. League President Samuel Untermyer stresses the importance to civilization of an aggressive support of the
boycott, but is not scientific advancement, whether due to German research or not, greater and more lasting to civilization than
an attempt to force Germany into economic decline, the success of which gesture is only a matter of speculation?

Senior Slants
“The Davidson Man, Off the Campus”

Last weekend I found myself “bumming” from towns where “bumming” is hard. Both times the simple word Davidson worked the
magic of stopping a car, and I was given to understand that the ride was offered in each case because
I was a Davidson student. There is a store in Charlotte where, to get credit, one need only establish himself
as a Davidson student. The same truth may be applied in many other similar cases. What is this strange power
of the word Davidson, which is an “open sesame” to many doors? Our college has a tradition; this means that
the student body has a tradition upon it, as though it were not a changing group but a permanent part
of the campus like the eternal old buildings. Obviously, there must be some basis for such a reputation. We have
received this heritage from other generations and other classes. Now every day, especially over weekends, we have the opportunity to
verify and spread such a name for our student body. Every Saturday and Sunday there are usually at least one
hundred boys off the campus, scattered widely about this territory. Many of these are bumming and are given rides by
drivers, knowing them to be Davidson men. Many are guests in homes; all come in contact with many outsiders who
know that they are from Davidson. What I’m getting at is this. A student is the best advertisement for a
school. Often, the opinion that others form of you determines their opinion of Davidson. In one town I know of,
our school is highly regarded because of one graduate living there. In another, it suffers a rather shoddy reputation because
of one alumnus there. As you travel about the country, you are a walking advertisement of the type of student
body at Davidson.

MUNROE WICKER.

Davidson on the morning of THE DAVIDSONIAN

POPULAR ORCHESTRA LEADER, DRUM MAJOR TO TOSS HIS BATON OVER THE GOAL POSTS! UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, 1914 - TED WEEMS
ARE ALL MEMBERS OF DELTA SIGMA PHI FRATERNITY

JAN GARBER

Letters to the Editor

WOFFORD EDITOR COMMENTS...
Dear Editor:
You have the best paper I see. How do you do it on a campus your size? Co-operation? Congratulations.
LEWIS JONES.
Editor of Old Gold and Black, Wofford College.

TRIBUTE TO MISS SHAW...
(To the Charlotte Observer)
When a telegram was received at Davidson on the morning of Dec. 28, stating that Miss Cornelia Shaw was dead,
the entire community was shocked and her friends were deeply grieved, for they loved her. As the College Librarian, where
she served for 29 years, she lived among us, not only as an integral part of the college administration, but
as a friend, and to those who needed her, an advisor and helper. To speak of her efficiency and her
faithfulness in the position that she occupied for so long would be superfluous, for it is well known. Uncomplainingly and
with seldom a reference to either physical or mental weariness, she went about her daily task, intent upon doing only
what she believed to be her duty. A woman of unusual culture and accomplishment, she was many times approached by
members of the press for an interview, but she persistently declined. This was in keeping with her high-toned innate modesty.
She craved no publicity but constantly shunned it, preferring always to let a duty well done be its own reward.

From Campus to Campus
(By Associated Collegiate Press)

An English professor at Southern Methodist University gets a kick out of all this publicity about $15,000-a-year football coaches and
emphasis on the “win or else” policy. Years ago he was a football coach himself at Southwestern University in Georgetown,
Tex. “My Southwestern team was one of the strongest in the state,” he related. “One day the president of Southwestern
and I were strolling across the campus. ‘Our football team is doing well this season, isn't it,’ the president remarked.
‘Yes, it is making a fair record,’ I replied. ‘By the way,’ commented the president, ‘who is the coach this
year?’”

You'll soon be able to tell a Grinnell College man by the way he forks his spinach if the college
“orientation” is a success. The course—embracing among other things proper table manners—is given to freshmen. It is crammed with such
posers...as “when should you use a finger bowl?” and “who should be served first at a formal dinner?” and “how
would you eat sweet corn noiselessly?” Stock answer by witty freshmen to the “formal dinner” query was “at a formal
dinner, cocktails should always be served first.”

A U. of Iowa professor has devised an “emotion meter,” which he says measures the capacity of one's mood for
love by the perspiration in the palm of the hand. “The machine would be of little use to the unenlightened
swain,” said Prof. C. A. Ruckmick, the inventor, “because it takes a trained psychologist to interpret the romantic side of
the readings.” The meter measures all types of emotional disturbances, including anger, fear, joy, and that produced by lying. Lie
detectors generally rely on changes in blood pressure and breathing, he said, but in his opinion, hand perspiration is more
reliable.

Students at Kansas State College dissatisfied with college life have organized “gripe sessions” at which they pan the faculty and
air their grievances. Chief complaint of students as voiced at a recent meeting is that of compulsory military training for
all men students. Other complaints were against college rules requiring students to attend assembly and forbidding smoking on the campus.

A co-ed at Texas A. & I. College yelled at the psychological moment and as a result is soprano soloist
in the college choir. The director of the choir was walking dejectedly up the walk towards the main building one
day, wondering where he was to find a suitable first soprano. The co-ed just then began yelling lustily to her
roommate half a block away. A few minutes later she was running scales in the director's studio. Now she sings
first soprano in the choir—all because she wanted her roommate to bring her a package of gum.

During the earlier years of her connection with the College, she knew personally every boy on the campus, as the
student body at that time was not nearly so large as it now is. Hundreds of alumni, scattered all over
the country in various positions of life, would testify to her valuable and unfailing friendship and eager assistance at all
times. We are grateful that she lived among us, for her noble ideals, for her Christianity, not only professed but
practiced. A searching investigation turned upon her character would have revealed only the finest and most steadfast traits. Her influence
will not die an early death. “No life can be pure in its purpose and strong in its strife and
all life not be purer and stronger thereby.” Influence is to be measured not by the scope or extent of
surface it covers, but by its kind. “We can only make others good by being good ourselves.” Sincerity—which is only
another name for truth—was an outstanding characteristic of this splendid woman, and she has left in the hearts of those
who knew and appreciated her, a loving memory that will be cherished so long as life itself lasts. In writing
this short tribute to Miss Shaw, whose friendship was one of my prized possessions, I am sure I am voicing
the feelings of scores of her friends, who like myself feel that something irretrievable has gone out of our lives
with her passing.

MRS. N. T. SMITH.

After a few weeks’ respite afforded by my roommate’s sudden surge of generosity (you remember the bloke that wrote this
thing last, or fortunately, don’t), I return pleonastically to my task of reformation—sincerely, your own sneaking, snickering snoop, again assiduously
trailing all known evidences of dirt. Had a strange impulse to turn a blank column into the editor with a
resignatory note containing New Year's resolution to lift myself from this murky mire, but this soon conquered when visions of
new smut (broken NY's resolutions, etc.) flitted into my fancy. With incredible rapidity and usual solecism, the accusing finger singles
out a strange phenomenon, one human surreptitiously called Black Dog. Ah, the pity of it, that this Cellini, veritably a
Casanova, that this Don Juan should be so falsely called by an appellation that hints strongly of canine qualities. A
man who would brave hail, fire, and the coaching staff, if SHE called... A man who with complete abandon, appreciates
those immortal lines of Herrick, “When as in silks my Julia goes, Then, then (methinks) how sweetly flows, That liquefaction
of her clothes.” If truth be served, this fellow’s name should undergo a slight change—from Black Dog to Blackbeard, judging
from the extent of his love and the habitual color of his face. (Dear Yates, Harrison, and Glenn, have we
put this guy in his seat?)

An inhabitant of ancient Babylon would have beamed approvingly on the spectacle, but having nurtured amid less boisterous surroundings, phlegmatically
smiled austere disapproval.

NEW YEAR—Resolution, revolution, evolution. The resolutions are appearing on all sides as the New Year starts. The revolution is taking
place in Spain and you all are tired of hearing about it. And evolution—well, I’m not allowed to talk about
evolution. Anyway, 1938 is here so what can we do about it? The new year was welcomed by Davidson students
in many ways and in many places but all returned with beaming countenances and happy hearts. Just to think, Spring
holidays are only three months off and in just two weeks we will be taking exams. And mixed emotions were
felt with the burning of the student store, the opening of the new infirmary, the death of our former librarian
and a faithful janitor plus a terrible car wreck. Even a fire during the funeral services of Oscar. Yes, it
promises to be a great year; or maybe it’s something else. By the way, how are the rats living since
the student store burned down? As far as that goes, how are the store managers living? However, with the world
three-fourths water and one-fourth land, the chances are three to one against us. We should be glad we weren't born
fishes.

HER POINT—Doris Darling was indignant. “If you kiss me again,” she declared firmly, “I shall tell father.” The bold, bad
Joe College smiled knowingly. “Phooey,” he replied, “anyway it’s worth it.” And he kissed her again. Miss Darling sprang to
her feet and tripped lightly up to her father's den. “Father,” she said, “Mr. College is calling and wishes very
much to see your new automatic shotgun.” “All right,” answered pater, delighted at the opportunity of displaying his treasure. “I’ll
be right down with it.” A minute later, Joe, while admiring himself in the mantle mirror, caught a glimpse of
the old gentleman descending the stairs with a shotgun laid fondly across his arm. There was a crash of breaking
glass as the bold, bad young man dived headfirst through a window, and even before the clinking echoes died away,
he had disappeared far into the obscure shadows of the night.

REMEMBER—Remember that old chinaberry tree that stood by the walk from Chambers to the Post Office. Anyway, it was there
and last year it was cut down. There was a bench under that tree and the story was that if
a boy took his girl and sat with her under that tree she would become his wife. It was a
very popular tradition. Johnny Mackorell was the last Davidson student to try it and look at him today. But now
even the bench is gone. What is a poor student to do? Remember when we had single cuts before and
after holidays? Neither do I.

THUMB NAIL SKETCH—For twenty years this person has been gracing the face of the earth. One will go many a
mile before seeing a face so beautiful, will live many a day before meeting anyone quite so perfect in so
many ways. This person is about five feet five and weighs about 110 pounds. If everyone on the campus doesn't
know this person it is his fault and his (Continued on Page Eight)

Visit KING’S SODA & GRILL FOUNTAIN SERVICE SANDWICHES - LUNCHES Popular Brands of Cigarettes 12c (Camels, Luckies, Old Golds, Chesterfields,
Raleigh, Piedmont) Free Telephone Corner 4th & S. Tryon St
