WEDNESDAY, MARCH 23, 1938. THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Seven

French Club To Present Two Plays
First Presentation Here, Later At Converse College, and In Charlotte

The first presentation of the two French plays, being given by Le Cercle Francais, will be in Chambers Auditorium, on Monday night, April 11. The club will go to Converse College April 14 and to Charlotte at a later undetermined date to present these same two plays.

Plans for these two dramas, one a comedy and the other a tragedy, are almost complete. The stage set for the tragedy entitled "L’homme de la Nuit" is almost completed with an entirely new set of scenery. Bob King, with the assistance of Gordon Horton and the French Club, is in charge of recovering the frames which the college prepared.

Grand Guignol
The program being prepared by Le Cercle Francais is a Grand Guignol. This is the name of a popular theater in Paris which features horror dramas and comedies. Andre de Lorde's tragedy had a long run at this theater about ten years ago. Al Cates plays the leading role in this drama. The remainder of the cast includes Bob King, Archer Torrey, Wade Barrow, Sam Cothran, Sid Crane, and G. D. Davidson.

La Lettre Chargee
The comedy, “La Lettre Chargee” by Labiche, has in the main role J. N. Smith. The supporting cast is composed of Oscar Armstrong, Sam Spencer, and T. P. Porter. John Reisner is directing this play.

The French Club of Converse College will visit the Davidson campus later in the month to present Acremant’s modern comedy entitled, “Ces Dames aux Chapeaux Verts.”

Eta Sigma Phi Extends Bids To Seventeen
Dr. Richard Also Honored By Classical Group

Seventeen Davidson students were issued bids Monday, March 21, to the local Alpha Nu chapter of Eta Sigma Phi, honorary national classical fraternity. Dr. C. M. Richards, a member of the college faculty, was also issued a bid to become an honorary member of the local circle.

The juniors are: Sid S. Crane, Richard Kenyon, Warren Ludlam, J. N. Smith, Samuel C. Webb, Rod Williams, Stuart R. Oglesby, John Phipps, Robert W. Ramsey, Roy N. Smith, David W. Sprunt, Thomas J. Glenn, Jack W. Holland, Thomas M. Wells, and Samuel R. Spencer.

Delegates Chosen
Two members of the rising senior class, John Mawhinney and Walter Stitt Robinson, have been elected by the local chapter to be delegates to the national conference of Eta Sigma Phi at Columbus, Ohio. This convention will last from April 21-23. The two representatives will hear several prominent nationally known speakers during this session and will attend a tea given by the governor of Ohio at the executive mansion. The hosts of the convention will be members of Eta Sigma Phi at the University of Ohio.

Fraternity Aims
The purpose of this national honorary classical fraternity is to promote interest in Latin and Greek. One of the national fraternity's projects is the revival of the study of these classical languages in secondary schools and colleges. At the convention, ways and means to further the study of these languages will be discussed. The national group has been suggesting to interested parties that all high schools and preparatory schools give a medal or similar award for the highest grades in Latin to revive in the students a dying interest in this language.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR
(Continued from Page 2)

given, and his administration has been of duties. Our selfish leaders can't be accused of not doing a good job! He may not be our Algie’s idea of a prospective Napoleon, but he has fooled the majority of the rest of us. Well, here’s wishing you luck, Horatio, and I hope you get an office some of these days.
—UBORME.

Honored By Phi Beta Kappa
Six Davidson seniors have been extended bids by the local chapter of Phi Beta Kappa. One alumnus, J. H. Gailey of Atlanta, Ga., was also extended a bid.

Jim Dorsett, Salisbury, with an average for three and a half years of 2.884; Martin (Teeny) Lafferty, Concord, 2.872; Field Horine, Louisville, Ky., 2.844; Bill Kiesewetter, Chalfont, Pa., 2.840; Elmore Holt, Greensboro, 2.797; and A. R. Cates, Jacksonville, Ala., with an average of 2.762. Besides making excellent grades, the men are also leaders of their class.

Coghill Gives Paper Before Physics Club
Sigma Pi Sigma Hears Student Monday Night

Wesley Coghill chose the subject of “Isolation of Heavy Hydrogen” as the theme of the paper which he presented to Sigma Pi Sigma, honorary physics fraternity, at their bi-monthly meeting, March 21. Heavy hydrogen is one of the newest subjects to be investigated by physicists. Mr. Coghill based his paper on the recent discovery of the fact that not all oxygen and hydrogen are of equal weight. He pointed out that this discovery was made only through the exactness of physics technique.

Hydrogen Subject
This paper outlined several methods of obtaining heavy hydrogen in a comparatively pure state. This is very difficult to do since there is but one isotope of the substance in five thousand of the ordinary type in water. An outline of the method of determining the amount of heavy hydrogen in a given sample was also given. Mr. Coghill stated that there is but a very small amount in ordinary water. Although but a small percentage can be found in any one substance, the main sources for obtaining it are ox blood, honey, human milk, kerosene, and benzine. Unlike ordinary water, heavy water, which contains an excess of heavy hydrogen, causes death.

San Diego State College has extension courses in navigation and nautical astronomy. Sailors ahoy!

College handball players in Oregon have organized an Oregon State Intercollegiate Handball League, one of the first of its kind in the U.S.

The nation’s largest college wind tunnel is now being completed in University of Minnesota laboratories. It’ll make a 150-mile-an-hour breeze.

Los Angeles Junior College has just completed arrangements for the shipment of 100 pounds of human organs for its life science museum.

Radio comedienne Gracie Allen is offering a bearskin prize as an Award of Ingenuity to the man graduating from college with the lowest marks.

Where Camera Enthusiasts Gather — HOLLY SMITH CAMERAS And Photographic Supplies 106 S. Church—Phone 3-4302 Just A Step Off Trade Street

Among the Greeks
Beta's Elect New Officers
The chapter held its spring election of officers at the last meeting and the following men were elected: President, Julian Squires; vice president, Ed Morrow; secretary, Gales McClintock; treasurer, Sam Walker. Eddie Steere was elected Pan Hellenic council representative.

Alumni Brother Visits Phi Gams
Meriwether Lewis (’36) paid a visit to the chapter Friday and Saturday. He returned to his Greensboro office on Saturday.

Pika’s Attend Concord Dance
A good many of the brothers had a most enjoyable time at the dance in Concord Friday. David Russell spent the weekend at his home in Staunton, Va. Misses Giggy Brandon, Adele Southerland, and Sara Keiger visited the chapter Sunday.

Dr. Lacy Visits KA’s
Tom Perrin and Gil Palmer journeyed to Spartanburg during the weekend. Sam Spencer went to Winston-Salem and Bob Abell went home to Chester. The chapter had a feed Sunday night and Brother Ben Lacy was a guest of the chapter.

Sig Eps Give Faculty Feed

Plans Made By Summer School Head
Summer School Will Begin on June 15 Instead of June 13th

The Davidson College summer session will begin this year on June 15 instead of June 13, as originally planned, and will close July 30, Dr. K. E. Fleagle, director, has announced. The music camp will run from June 27 to July 30.The matter of | The SPE's gave a feed on last | Kappa Sigs Travel Far Sunday night in honor of the fol- Wade Barrow went to Columbia | lowing faculty: Dr. Goldiere, Pro- during the weekend and Bits Wat- | fessor Kimbrough, Professor Pat- kins went to Spartanburg. Charlie | ton, Dr. Porter, Dr. Gwynn, and Yates went to Salisbury and Ray | Professor Fulcher. Pittman went home to Fayetteville. The chapter announces the Warren Gaw went to Winston- | pledging of Bob Lewis, of Lumber- Salem. Apie Means spent the week- | ton, N. C. end at his home in Concord. Bob Wyatt and Johnny McQueen visit- College Students Get Agricultural Jobs ed Winthrop this weekend. SAE's Spend Quiet Weekend The brothers for the most part spent last weekend in the near vi- Speaking of jobs reminds this cinity, but a few ventured to cross | writer of the fact that the col- the backyard fence. Brothers Shaw- | lege students who specialize in ag- Smith and Torrey McLean jour- | riculture almost always seem to neyed to Greensboro. Brother | find good openings. Perhaps few Hank Bahnson went to his home of them get rich, but so far as in Winston-Salem. Brothers George | comfortable jobs are concerned, Ficklen, Heeto McLean, Buck | they certainly seem to hit the bull’s Powell, and Tom Crichton enjoyed | eye! the novelty of skating in Charlotte. A recent trip into the farming country of the South emphasized Pi Kapps Pledge Two this point. With land conservation, Dick Towill and Dave King went crop diversification and other sci- to Charleston during the weekend. entific practices becoming more Jim Hill went home, as usual, to | generally accepted, it seems that the Sharon, S. C., and Bid Ivey went to | boys who have studied these prob- Rock Hill. Bill Ward went to lems are in demand. ERNEST ELLISON, Inc. ERNEST ELLISON ROBT. E. ELLISON Fire, Casualty and Marine Insurance Charlotte, N. C. 113-115 East Fourth St. SODA FOUNTAIN STATIONERY CANDIES WHITE DRUG STORE PRESCRIPTIONS FILLED BY EFFICIENT AND EXPERIENCED PHARMACISTS Reason for the change in sched- explained, Professor Fleagle ule explained that the annual was due to the fact that in past years these three people’s does not end until the event conferences were run at the same time, resulting in much confusion in classrooms. It was thought advisable to conduct them at different times. Same Courses The same courses will be with about the last year, with the excep- tion that history will be added. Students will register for summer school at the same time that they next year. Alumnus James Gailey, alumnus of the class of '37, transferred from Geor- gia Tech after his sophomore year, was recently bid by Phi Beta Kappa. The delay in being cho- sen was due to the ruling stat- ing that a student must attend Davidson four semesters before becoming a member of this scholarship fraternity. German Frat Fleagle also requested students planning to take courses of three-hour credits to see him at once. Music Camp The third annual Music Camp will be run under the direction of the school, with Professor Pfohl as director. While this semester plans are being made, the summer school will be directed by Babcock and Fleagle. Dr. Lacy Talks Before Group Ministerial Band Hears Semi- nary President: Dr. Benjamin R. Lacy, president of Union Theological Seminary of Richmond, addressed the Minis- terial Band Sunday afternoon, March 20, on some general qualifi- cations for ministers. “The world will be saved by men, not by movements,” said Dr. Lacy. He gave as important char- acteristics of those who aspire to the ministry: Development of character; the most natural and important spiritual life. “The most important thing to do in college,” stated Dr. Lacy, “is to develop a good spiritual life.” Do only those extra-curricular activities in which you excel, and those in which you are needed. Also, he suggested that the extra-curricular participant in activities should leave behind competent men to carry on the work successfully. Dr. Lacy concluded by saying that ministers should learn to handle words well. He emphasized the importance of the English language. No business was transacted, except that a representative was appointed to foster the relationship between the Presbyterian Church and the student body. RECUPERATION PARTY College sponsored a recuperation party for students who had just finished examinations. UNIQUE ADVERTISING Student University advertising a play production picket to their local cinema mansion to promote their own play. Bids Ten Men Professor Beaty Speaks to Members of Delta Phi Alpha Professor Beaty was the princi- pal speaker at the last meeting of Delta Phi Alpha, held last Wed- nesday evening at which ten new members for the local German Club, Deutscher Verein, were voted upon. New members voted upon are Kenyon, Louis, Maxwell, Harrisberger, Morrow, White, Locke, Torrey. Religion in Germany Following the business items, Professor Beaty spoke to them for several minutes. In his talk he corrected a misconstrued concep- tion of religion in Germany today. Although religion is not the most important element in the govern- ment, he said that the people still desire to worship. He brought out the fact that the old churches have retained their religion and that the churches there, especially the Catholic ones, are even crowded. Professor Beaty is well informed, having studied in Germany at the University of Berlin and also in Italy. German Attitude He said that the German people have the attitude that the Italians have taken their alliance with the Germans because they believe they are the strongest party and are trying them for all they can get out of them. In talking to an old father and son, he found that they were surprised to find that the Ameri- cans were presumably not afraid of the Germans. They sincerely be- lieve, due to propaganda and sta- tistics, that Germany is far more powerful than America. Dr. Palmer Mystery Is Cleared Up Failure in Appearance of Lec- turer Is Due to Contract Trouble The mysterious failure in the appearance of Dr. Carlton Palmer has been solved. Dr. Palmer was to have lectured here March 11, but failed to appear. Mr. Palmer was to have lectured on “The Joy of Pictures” from a layman’s point of view, since he is an artist. An exhibit of original works was also to have been shown. Bryant Honored By Davidson Hi-Y Group Marion Bryant was honored last week by the members of the Hi-Y at their regular meeting. He was pre- sented a jeweled Hi-Y pin in recog- nition of his outstanding work in that club in his four years at Da- vidson. Bryant has been in Hi-Y since he entered four years ago. All four years he has been in complete health work at Davidson. Through the Charlotte club he is in contact with all Hi-Y clubs in Mecklenburg county. Bryant, who is from W. Va., received his training in Hi-Y work while attending school in Bluefield. He was president of the Hi-Y at Bluefield high school. For the past two years he has been on the “Y” cabinet and has been in charge of the “Y” book work. PATRONIZE DAVIDSONIAN ADVERTISERS Helps PREVENT COLDS March 24-25 Thurs.-Fri. Saturday March 26 Mon.-Tues. March 28-29 DAVIDSON THEATRE “Rebecca of Sunnybrook Farm” “Born to the West” Specially designed for the nose and upper throat, where 3 out of 4 colds start. Use it at the first sneeze. Vicks Va-Tro-Nol MOORESVILLE CREAMERY PHONE 205 FREE DELIVERY “Thrill of a Lifetime” Yacht Club Boys, Judy Canova and Ben Blue, Elea- nore Whitney, Johnny Downs, Betty Grable, Leif Erikson, Larry Crabbe, Fanchonettes, Dorothy Lamour. “Thrill of a Lifetime” Goofy — Crazy Grand. It's Absolutely the Loop the Loop of Love and Laughter . . . Song and Dance . . . Gags and Gals.