Page Two

THE DAVIDSONIAN

The Davidsonian
Founded By the Class of 1915

1938 Member 1939
Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON Ave. New York, N. Y.
CHICAGO * BOSTON * LOS ANGELES * SAN FRANCISCO

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879.

Editor-in-Chief
Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
Editor
Managing Editor
Managing Editor
Managing Editor
Managing Editor
Managing Editor
Sports Editor
Associate Editor
Associate Editor
Associate Editor
Associate Editor
Movie Editor
Staff Photographer

BUSINESS STAFF
Asst. Business Manager
Advertising Manager
Advertising Manager
Circulation Manager
Circulation Manager
Collection Manager

Subsidization?

It is becoming a more and more obvious fact every day that something must be done about Davidson's football set-up.
Our boys played a good game out there against V.M.I. Saturday and deserve a world of credit for it. The
team was in good physical condition, was primed for the game, and got its share of the breaks, so no
alibis can be offered. It must be accepted as fact that Davidson’s simon pure, or practically simon pure, teams cannot
cope with colleges which have hired bigger, more experienced teams and who have plenty of reserves almost as good as
the regulars. In the last two years we have lost several games by rather large scores, consequently losing considerable prestige
in the football world. No one likes to see a constant loser. And that is just what Davidson is apt
to become. The handwriting on the wall indicates three alternatives:

1. Subsidization. This could be done judiciously on a comparatively small scale without injuring the reputation of the college, and
at the same time provide good enough teams to make things interesting with our Big Five rivals.
2. Schedule only Small Colleges. While this would assure us of a good record in the won and lost columns,
it would also assure a terrific drop in gate receipts. Since Davidson depends on the profits from the football season
to carry a large part of the remainder of the athletic program, this might prove ruinous.
3. Drop intercollegiate football entirely. There are many more arguments in favor of this policy than one at first realizes,
but we believe that it would cause Davidson to lose a great deal of prestige.

Boiled down to a nutshell the whole thing is that we need good attendance at football games to finance our
athletics, and in order to draw crowds we must play big time teams. The crowd, or rather the lack of
it at the Homecoming embroglio, conclusively proved the latter point. Where do we go from here?

* * * * * * *

Lock Your Door

There is the story of the Roman emperor who ordered a servant to repeat several times each day in his
presence, “Carthage must be destroyed.” Carthage was destroyed, which fact leads us to hope that if the statement, “Lock your
door,” is hurled at you often enough it will be heeded. Any group of more than six hundred and fifty
must necessarily contain some weak members. We have a minimum of these here at Davidson, but we must admit that
they do exist. It is the duty of the rest to help by removing the temptation. Thus, remembering to lock
his door may be considered the moral obligation of every Davidson student. No act will be more worthy of the
slight trouble it causes.

* * * * * * * *

Note To Reporters

We hope all our reporters will read this. John Temple Graves II in his column in the Birmingham Age-Herald recalls
the story of the pride that Editor Samuel Bowles always took in the accuracy of his Springfield Republican. On one
occasion, when the Republican reported the death of a citizen that turned out to be very much alive, Editor Bowles
said, “I’m sorry, but if the Republican says he’s dead, he’s dead.” The only compromise the famed editor would make,
and that only after long discussion, was to print the citizen’s name in the birth notices the next morning. An
editor who dared to say that a man was dead if his paper said he was dead had reporters whose
watchword was accuracy.

Paragraphics

THANKS
We want to say thank you to the powers that be for inviting the members of the Senior class to
the alumni banquet on Homecoming Day. This is the first time such an invitation has been extended and we hope
that it will become a tradition.

PLEASE
We have tried to keep off this page things of a critical nature, but there is something done every night
for which we can see no excuse. That is the cutting off of the light in the clock on the
north side of Chambers. Every night this light is turned off before midnight, making it impossible for students to see
what time it is. Many have come to depend on this clock and it causes them some inconvenience when their
timepiece is taken away. Since a large number of men do not go to bed till after midnight, we ask
that the clock be left lighted until that hour at the earliest.

COURT THE QUEENS
Let’s all turn out for the party Queens-Chicora is giving for the Davidson boys tomorrow night. Since they were nice
enough to invite us, the least we can do is go if possible. Such functions as this can give us
much of the social life which so many claim is lacking at Davidson.

Your Film Report Card
By Charlie Luther

Wednesday, November 16
“ARKANSAS TRAVELER” — Bob Burns, Fay Bainter, John Beale, and Jean Parker. It’s about a hobo printer who saves a
widow’s print shop from crooks. Here is the best one, so far, of the Bob Burns movies. He plays a
tramp printer who wanders vaguely about, a kind of Robin Hood character, spreading rough but sincere philosophy. In one village
he finds a widow, Fay Bainter, who supports herself and her two children with a small print shop. But dirty
politicians are planning to take it from her. Bob forsakes his life of gentle ease to help her fight. There
is a love interest supplied by Jean Parker and John Beal. A family picture.

Thursday and Friday, November 17 and 18
“THE CITADEL” — Robert Donat and Rosalind Russell. Out of the great book comes a thrilling dramatic movie. Power that
rivets your eyes to the heart and sets the pulses leaping. Yes, it’s one of the greatest dramas since films
began. The young doctor, portrayed by Robert Donat, tempted—a world of luxury and beautiful women within easy reach but the
cry of humanity calling him back to the citadel of his youthful ideas, that the doctor was an integral part
of. Humanity, dedicated to relieve human suffering and to refrain from the financial gain that the profession offered through breaches
of its ethics and the breaking of the Hippocratic Oath. It’s a story of the most “noble profession,” medicine. Don’t
miss it, it’s worth anyone’s time.

Saturday, November 19
“TOUCHDOWN ARMY” — John Howard and Mary Carlisle. John Howard is a smart-cracking ace football player who comes to West
Point and takes a beating because he isn’t too “regular.” Mary Carlisle, the major’s daughter, gets in her reform work
because, for some inner chemical reason, she can’t help loving this misguided fellow. Love and the Army team triumph in
the last minute of play, with John carrying the ball. It’s straight autumn cinema, well done.

Monday and Tuesday, November 20 and 21
“SING YOU SINNERS” — Bing Crosby, Fred MacMurray. Couldn’t get much dope on this show but you'll like this story,
heart-warming, and thrilling, about the Beebes—the goldarndest family in the whole bloomin’ U.S.A. It’s centered about a crazy family and
most of the action is about a race track and horses. Fred MacMurray being the black sheep of the family.
Bing sings a few songs that are really good with his superb voice, and renditions.

WEDNESDAY, NOV. 16, 1938

Letters To The Editor

SUPER SNOOPINGS

Dear Bill:
The news is out that Davidson is to have a new dormitory. That is fine news. There is no building
that is needed more. Let's hope that the plans for the previous dormitories have been lost. Nothing would ruin my
faith in Davidson quite as much as the construction of another monstrosity in the shape of our present dormitories. How
one architect could, in his right mind, design a building like East or West, and then point to it as
a modern college building is quite beyond me.

First of all let's look over our latest dormitories and see what is wrong with them.
1. They are four stories tall. It is unfair to make a boy walk three flights of steps twenty times
a day, especially if he is not well. In addition to that, the noise contributed to a building by stairs
is great and the extra flight of stairs causes fifty percent more noise.
2. The stairs go up the ends, making it impossible to have double the number of rooms with windows on
two sides of the room.
3. The buildings are without the first attribute of beauty—just barns with rooms in them.
4. There is only one dormitory with a parlor.
5. The lighting system is so primitive that the student wiring systems—made by radios, etc.—are an ever present danger.
6. The present buildings are inefficient—hard to heat—hard to keep clean, necessary to modernize.

I am sure you will agree that such facts are, in a degree at least, true. They should be corrected.
If the new dormitory is built on the order of East and West, it will soon be out-of-date; and the
modernization of it will cost more than the making of it modern at the start. Perhaps Davidson cannot yet afford
accommodations like those at Duke; but believe you me, Davidson’s reputation cannot long afford the existence of dormitories like the
present ones. We can take a middle course, and find a better solution. As a suggestion of what should be,
I include the following points.

1. The new dormitory should be three stories high.
2. Silent—not metal—stairs up the center.
3. Good looking enough to be inconspicuous, and with more character than a pile of bricks.
4. Two, three, or even four room suites with a living room, and a private bathroom. (This may cost more
now, but all the better schools have them; and some day Davidson must follow).
5. There should be a parlor in which to receive guests.
6. The lighting system should provide an indirect ceiling light, controlled by a switch at the door, in every room.
There should also be enough base outlets.
7. The building should be weather stripped, and the windows should be of the steel-frame hinged type.

These are all small, somewhat expensive, improvements. Yet they will indicate to me whether Davidson is building for the future;
or for present advertisement. It would be far better to wait a few years and put up a better building,
if the funds are not yet available, than to throw up another dormitory like those we now possess. The present
buildings will have to be altered, and soWill any modeled after them. Therefore, Bill, let's ask all the students to
contribute their suggestions to the Building Committee, with an idea toward helping them out. I am sure that they would
appreciate our student viewpoint. In fact, why doesn’t the Davidsonian conduct a poll of student opinion on the needs of
a new dormitory?

Yours,

In the Groove
By TOM PERRIN

DEPARTMENT OF HISTORICAL RESEARCH ... Every now and then it is impressed on us that a large part of the
student body, including us, struggles along in woeful ignorance of some of the more interested and incidental phases of the
life of Davidson institution. Take for example the commonly neglected case of the college wildcat, spiritual papa of the school’s
pigskin heroes. Felix is really his name, and “his” is the correct pronoun. As to how old he is there
are several schools of thought. According to the reckoning of old Doc Charles, the colored trainer who looked after him
until he was succeeded by Mr. P. W. White, he would be some eighteen years old, while Monk Younger, who
was head coach when Felix arrived, we gather, estimates around twelve years. Mr. White is the man who waters the
cat and cleans his cage, which is, of course, just to the north of the gym. A boy brings Felix’s
food from the meat market and sticks it to him through the cage. Wildcats are strictly carnivorous, and this one
will ignore anything you poke at him but meat. Only since Mr. White's arrival has the mascot been enticed into
his smaller, portable cage and paraded about between halves of a game. That was two years ago, and it seems
to have been a good bit of trouble. Incidentally, the “Lincoln Library” has this to say about the wildcat, which
is a vague sort of term for a species of lynx: “Although reputedly dangerous, the lynx lacks courage...”

THE CAMPUS SCENE... Would be improved if the sophs who are on flag detail would take the trouble to run
the flag all the way to the top of the staff every morning. A visitor to the campus Sunday was
heard to wonder if V. M. I. was in any way responsible for the flag’s flying about a yard below
the top ... A certain Kappa Sig is reputedly taking all bets, in terms of shoe shines, on the outcome
of his frat’s remaining touch football games—with the Phi Gams and the Phi Delts.

COLUMN... If you read the Charlotte Observer with any thoroughness, you may see a column in the Sunday editions called
Sub-Deb Chatter, written by Miss Peggy Dunaway, who isn't exactly a stranger to Davidson. If her piece of last Sunday
is typical, we predict a large and enthusiastic audience in these parts. She gives a couple of nice paragraphs to
local socialites and their elegant garb; to save embarrassment to those honored and (newspaper space) we won't repeat her thoughts.
You can learn things about your friends from her, though. Where else could you find that a certain dapper young
fellow is “better known to Charlotte girls as Boscoe, the Heart Throb?”

Weekly Schedule

Wednesday, Nov. 16
5:00 P. M.—Glee Club Rehearsal.
7:00 P. M.—Scabbard and Blade meeting.
7:15 P. M.—Journalism Class.
7:15 P. M.—Photographic Club.
8:00 P. M.—Alpha Psi Omega and Red and Black Masquers.
9:00 P. M.—YMCA Cabinet meeting.

Thursday, Nov. 17
6:30 P. M.—Queens-Davidson Day at Queens College.
7:15 P. M.—Social fraternities.
9:00 P. M.—Beaver Club.
10:30 P. M.—Student Prayer Meeting.

Friday, Nov. 18
5:00 P. M.—Glee Club Rehearsal.
7:00 P. M.—Pi Gamma Mu.
8:00 P. M.—Alpha Epsilon Delta.

Sunday, Nov. 20
10:15 A. M.—Sunday School.
11:15 A. M.—Church.
6:30 P. M.—Vespers.

Monday, Nov. 21
5:00 P. M.—Glee Club Rehearsal.
7:00 P. M.—‘D’ Club meeting.
8:00 P. M.—Delta Phi Alpha.

Tuesday, Nov. 22
7:00 P. M.—Philanthropic and Eumenean Literary Societies.
8:00 P. M.—La Cercle Francais.
9:00 P. M.—Sigma Upsilon.
10:30 P. M.—Student Prayer Meetings.

By KEN LAWSON

Hold the presses! For weeks now we have been trying to find out the correct method of assuming that nonchalant
attitude so necessary in a meeting between date and late date. We are overjoyed to announce that not only have
we found out the correct procedure for this embarrassing moment but we have had a demonstration by that eminent authority
T. A. Hackney, the Casanova of the Everglades. According to Sherlock Holmes Spencer, however, “If you leave your overcoat and
hat in the front room you are liable to be suspicioned if not detected.” After the demonstration Mr. Hackney expressed
himself as follows: “It is most embarrassing to come out from under a kitchen table with your shoes off.”

Fellow students, I am afraid that we have associated with each other so long that we fail to appreciate the
diamonds in our midst. It takes someone apart who can look at us in an objective way to appreciate the
manifold assets of certain members of our student body. Let me quote Miss Peggy Dunaway in her Charlotte Observer column
“Sub Deb Chatter.” “Another of yesterday's gala events was the dance given in Charlotte by the Kappa Alpha and Kappa
Sigma fraternities from Davidson. Rayve in the season’s most style-right suit. Dick Taylor was in an outfit so complete he
looked as though he had just stepped out of Esquire. Paul Marion (better known to Charlotte girls as Bosco the
Heart Throb!) was so good looking he made every gal yearn to dance with him.” My, My, is this a
school of higher learning or a glorified fashion show?

Wedding bells pealed once more around Davidson way—this time for alumnus Fred Dennis who took the vows with Miss Sue
Batte of Concord Friday night. Johnny McQueen came dangerously near to the altar Saturday night when his engagement to Miss
Virginia Rogers was announced at the Kappa Sig—K. A. dance. Congratulations and best wishes all the way around.

Ravelings: Super powerhouse Dave Colvin coming through on the eighth try for a date Saturday night only to find out
it was his second time to have a blind date with the same girl. What a memory!—Stitt Robinson believing in
doing only what the scavenger hunt rules specified—John Mawhinney winning the Y.M.C.A. “loving cup” last weekend with Sherrard Rice a
close second ... Norman Stevenson and Jim Dunlap becoming the white hopes of the track team ... Seiffert’s acquiring the
name of Keeley Institute ... Hank Bahnson deserting the arms of Morpheus for those of Peggy Beatty ... Flash! Bill
Rainey completing his neophyte period successfully and being formally taken into that time-honored organization, “The Kampus Kids,”

Among the luminaries returning for the Homecoming festivities was that inimitable brother in the order of printers devils and keyhole
watchers Chubby King. The Kang, super columnist of last year whom I fervently copy, was accompanied by charming Miss Echols.
Featuring Phi Gams we have the following: Rut Miller attending Kindergarten four nights a week; passing grade attested to by
picture... Frank Barker the stops in crude telegram writers ... George Stowe losing out to Shorty Parish after becoming victim
of low grade ... and Cage Brewer in line with his Indian blood being correctly dubbed “Chief Red on the
Collar.”

Questions from our readers: If you ask Sam Webb to take care of your date do you have to throw
in a blanket as I did? Boo Walker.

Janitors Toil Hard, But Are All Satisfied
Old Cemetery Reveals Their Faithfulness In The Past
By PAUL BUMBARGER

A necessary part of the service of Davidson College since it was founded over a hundred years ago, but one
taken for granted by most of the students, has been the army of janitors employed by the institution during its
lifetime. Just off the golf course belonging to the college is an old, almost forgotten negro cemetery. On close inspection
of the numerous tombstones seen among the underbrush, one may find that a great many of them bear under the
name the same inscription: “Faithful janitor to Davidson College.”

Fourteen In Number

Today the force has grown to one composed of fourteen men, including a head janitor, Wesley Smith. Wesley was at
one time a Pullman porter, but decided to settle down to a stationary job. Accordingly, he came into the employment
of the college as a janitor. Eight years ago he was made head janitor, and has been looking after the
rest of the boys ever since. Under Wesley are thirteen others, each having a specific dormitory or rooming house to
look after. Rumple Dormitory is in charge of Alonzo Moore, while in Watts are John Brice and Sidney Hunsucker. Sidney’s
grandfather carried the college mail to and from the post office for nearly fifty years. Toy Withers is in Georgia;
Jordan Withers and John Heath are in West; and Jim Carr and Crawford Donaldson are in East. Roy Caldwell has
charge of the barracks.

Many Hard Jobs

Probably the hardest jobs are taken care of by Seymour Carr and John Smith. These men are in charge of
cleaning the rooming houses in town: The Club, The Ward, Seifert’s, and Mooney’s. Besides this, they look after the Eagle’s
clean Shearer Hall. Many persons in town know them so well that they consider them public property, and consequently call
on them from time to time to help them with odd jobs. Dean of the janitors is Enoch Donaldson, the
“Enoch,” who has been known to countless numbers of Davidson students of all generations, and who owns a lizard possessed
of marvelous powers of prophecy, especially concerning the outcome of football games. No one knows how long Enoch has been
in the service of the college, since he was here when everybody else connected with the college now arrived. Dr.
Shearer, one-time Bible professor, used to call him “my Enoch.” Enoch is now on duty in Chambers building, along with
a new “assistant” given him this year, one William Donaldson.

All Satisfied

All of the janitors seemed to be quite satisfied with their work, though quite a few expressed a preference to
be “business men” if they had a sufficient amount of education. Most of them are married, and those who are
not announce that they are “courtin’ heavy.” Crawford Donaldson, who works in East, now has ten children from nine years
of married life. But when asked to name them, he found this a job a little beyond his capacity, being
able to think of only nine of them. Married or unmarried, however, all of them agree that Davidson is the
best college in the world, and will stand behind her no matter what happens. An example of faith is a
reply Enoch once made to Mrs. Martin, wife of a former president of the college, when asked how a certain
football game was coming out: “Nothing to nothing, ma'am; and Davidson is ahead!”

Colored Work Expands Fast

The scout work for colored boys under the direction of Dave McLean is coming along nicely. Last weekend he took
the group to see the Wofford game. The last meeting at Cornelius had the largest number present of any meeting
this year; there were over 21 scouts there. A campfire program was presented under the supervision of Bill McLauchlin and
Albert Winn. Plans are under way for a girl scout troop which will begin functioning in the near future. Mrs.
W. G. McGavock and Miss Julia Mebane have consented to take charge of this enterprise; however, nothing of a very
definite nature has been decided on yet. The colored churches are planning to have a daily Bible school in the
near future.
