New Dormitory To Be Built

Z528 ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Pikas Win Honors For Decoration

VOL. XXVI DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 1938 No. 9

Old Grads Return For Davidson-V.M.I. Game and Banquet

Dr. Lacy Makes Strong Plea For More Scholarships For Scholars

THREE ALUMNI SPEAK

Dr. Lingle Announces Plans For New Dormitory

Davidson Men Go To Queens

Many Students Expected For Queens-Davidson Day At 6:30 Tomorrow

Highlights among the various activities held for the alumni on Homecoming this year were the alumni luncheon and the Davidson-VMI
game. The majority of the alumni began to congregate here toward the middle of Saturday morning. At 12:30 P.M. the
alumni luncheon was held in the banquet hall. Several hundred alumni were present for the occasion. Following the luncheon, inspiring
addresses were delivered by two selected speakers, Dr. Ben R. Lacy of Richmond, Va., and Wilbur Edwards of Charlotte. Dr.
John McSween of Chester, S.C., presided over the meeting and other distinguished visitors made short talks.

Lacy Speaks

Dr. Lacy, president of Union Theological Seminary, and one of the outstanding pulpit orators in the Presbyterian Church, made a
strong plea for more scholarships for scholars. He said that emphasis should be placed on helping and encouraging those men
who show the greatest aptitude for leadership in all fields. Dr. Lacy said that the scholars at Oxford University in
England, who had received scholarships had proved their worth and faith in the investments.

Mr. Edwards, who was formerly president of the student body, said that Davidson’s greatness lay in its individualism. Davidson, he
said, is an exception to most other colleges that turn out standardized product. This may have its faults but it
has produced men of character and strength. He said that he hoped such an individualism would persist as long as
Davidson existed.

Dr. McSween brought greetings to the alumni, their wives and families. Dr. J. W. MacConnell, college physician, who introduced Mr.
Edwards, said that it was one of the thrills of his life to serve Davidson sons of men to whom
he had ministered in years gone by. William Y. Preyer, head of Vick Chemical Company, made a short talk. Dr.
R. S. Burwell of the class of 1875, was announced as the oldest alumnus present. H. Smith Richardson of New
York was announced as the alumnus who had come the farthest distance to attend the meeting.

The plans for the construction of a new dormitory on the campus north of Chambers, were announced at this meeting
of the alumni.

Writers Pick New Officers

Paul Cooper Is President Of Journalism Class

Paul Cooper, a member of the Senior class, was elected president of the College Journalism class for the 1938-39 term
at the second regular meeting last Wednesday evening.

The other new officers are Erle Austin, vice-president, and Andy Dale, secretary and treasurer. The election was in charge of
Jerry Doster, who had been appointed chairman of the nominating committee by Alumni Secretary Fred Smith, the class director. Doster
presented three names for each office and then called for nominations from the floor. The group adopted a plan to
have a senior for president, a junior for vice-president, and a sophomore as secretary and treasurer.

Other nominees for president included Rock Deaton, Dan Walker, and Jerry Doster, who was nominated from the floor. The committee
presented three names for each office and then called for nominations from the floor. The group adopted a plan to
have a senior for president, a junior for vice-president, and a sophomore as secretary and treasurer.

Photographic Club Schedules Several Contests For Near Future

The snapshot contest sponsored by the Photographic Club of various views of Chambers Building closed on November 2, and the
winning photograph was a profile view of the building which was taken by Angus Lytch. The many candid shots entered
in the contest were judged by Dr. Scott Lyon.

Last Sunday the members of the Photographic Club went on a field trip for the purpose of photographing various scenes
of the countryside. These snapshots will be entered in a contest and must all be in by November 23.

Other contests which will occur soon are: A contest on candid camera shots terminating on December 7; one on snapshots
of campus life, which ends on January 11; and a portrait contest with a deadline sometime in February. These dates
have been set well in advance in order that all may be fully prepared for the competition.

The Photographic Club is an informal organization formed for the sole purpose of widening the candid camera knowledge of photography,
and any students interested in this subject are cordially invited to join. All members are expected to pay a small
fee in order that the expenses of the darkroom may be cared for.

PROOFS ON EXHIBITION

On Monday and Tuesday of the past week in the parlor of Watts, the annual photographer put on exhibit the
proofs of the photographs that he had taken, and each student was asked to drop in and select the proof
of himself which he thought to be the best. Those students who did not come to Watts at the assigned
time, and who were thus unable to select their proofs, will have their best proofs selected by the photographer. The
photographer admitted that this group of pictures taken here at Davidson was about the best group of school or college
pictures that he had ever taken.

This unusual shot of a very usual sight—familiar Chambers building bathed in the golden semi-liquid sunlight of Indian Summer. These
striking qualities were captured in the camera of Angus Lytch, transfer student who is making a name for himself with
his magic camera, in a contest sponsored by and for the members of the Photographic Club, and was selected by
Dr. Scott Lyon, the official judge.

Question For Debate Trials Is Announced

Try-outs To Be Held Early In December

Joe Calvin, President of the Forensic Council, has announced that debate try-outs will be held sometime during the first week
in December. Around thirty-five men have signified their intention of trying for the varsity debating team, which will be composed
as usual of six regular men and three alternates.

The question for the try-outs is the same as the Pi Kappa Delta, national debating fraternity, standard. It is: “Resolved:
that the United States shall cease to use public funds (including credit) for the purpose of stimulating business.” A faculty
committee composed of Dr. C. K. Brown, Prof. E. A. Beaty, Prof. E. J. Erwin, and Dr. W. P. Cumming
will select the debating teams after the try-outs next month.

Four men have returned from last year’s varsity; these are Neal Scott, Sherrard Rice, Dick Kenyon, and John Reisner. More
home debates are planned for this year, and it is hoped that during the spring one meet can be held
every two weeks.

Plans have also been made for three men, to take a trip through the southern, northern, and north central states,
meeting six colleges on each trip, allowing each man to debate four times.

Winthrop College has recently sent Davidson an invitation to participate in its annual public speaking tournament, which will be held
for colleges from all this section of the country. Three men will be chosen at the try-outs to represent Davidson
at the tournament, where contestants can enter any form of public speaking—oratory, debate, impromptu, extemporaneous, or after-dinner. Fifteen men have
already enrolled for the try-outs which will be held in the near future. These men include: Dick Kenyon, Bob Ramsey,
Paul Crane, Drury Burrows.

Burrows To Lecture On Noted Archeologist

To Speak In Chambers Auditorium On November 28

Dr. Miller Burrows, President of the American Schools of Oriental Research at Jerusalem and Bagdad, will speak in Chambers auditorium,
November 28th, at eight o’clock. His topic will be “Digging up the Past in Palestine.”

Since the World War a great deal has been discovered in the historic lands of the Bible that is of
great interest. These discoveries have made collections of the oldest writings in the world available for study and have made
possible a comprehensive study of the history of these lands. Scholars are able to make a more comprehensive study of
the Bible through these discoveries.| Dr. Burrows will be the first lecturer in a series that Davidson men will have
the opportunity to hear. Dr. Burrows is touring North Carolina and lecturing in seminaries, colleges, and universities. He will speak
at 8 o'clock.

Dr. Burrows is well known as a minister in the United States, having graduated from Union Theological Seminary in 1915
and serving in a rural church in Texas. He has held numerous professorships in various colleges and universities. He has
also written several books on the Bible and Bible literature. Dr. Burrows is listed in “Who's Who in America.”

College To Erect Modern Dormitory Within Next Year

Graham Heads Rhodes Group
Walker, Branscomb, McLarty, Thomas, Complete Scholarship Committee

Frank Graham, president of the University of North Carolina, is chairman of the Committee of Selection for the Rhodes Scholarships
in North Carolina, it has been announced.

Building To Be Erected From Reserve Funds Available

ANNOUNCED AT BANQUET
Executive Committee Plans Construction

At the meeting of the Executive Committee on Friday, November 11, the Administration was authorized to construct a new dormitory
before the beginning of another school year to take care of the overflow of students that Davidson has experienced. The
building will not increase the size of the student body but will provide more adequately for the men already enrolled.
The new dormitory, designed to accommodate between 75 and 100 students, will probably be built somewhere near the present dormitory
row.

This action of the Executive Committee was announced by Dr. Lingle at the large Homecoming luncheon held before the football
game on Saturday. At the same time, he explained that the buildings and grounds committee, with the approval of the
Executive Committee, had authorized the construction of the dormitory from reserve funds available for this purpose only and not from
money subscribed by the Centennial movement.

No definite date was given as to when work would be started, but it was thought that preliminary plans would
be made soon.

It was also announced that Mr. and Mrs. William Y. Preyer of Greensboro were the donors of the new infirmary,
which has been built at a cost of $50,000. The couple made the gift to the building program anonymously and
only recently consented to have their names announced.

At the trustees’ meeting last February, authorization was given to make plans to collaborate with Prof. Pfohl on a new
musical production.

“D” Club Banquet

Monday night, November fourteenth, the “D” Club held its monthly meeting under the leadership of Jake Wade, Sports Editor of
the Charlotte Observer and a well-known figure in the Carolinas, was selected.

The success of the Masquers' last production was very outstanding, and for their next performance, they are going to present
“Through” by Allen Martin and “Let” by Martial Trak. These plays are going to be given sometime in January.

James Christian Pfohl is interested in giving a musical production in collaboration with the Red and Black Masquers sometime in
the near future. Mr. Pfohl has Robin Hood in mind for this particular production, and if present plans materialize, this
musical show will be given in the football stadium.

MILLER SETS DEADLINE

Deadline for the December issue of Scripts ’n Pranks has been set at November 22, according to Rut Miller, editor
of the magazine. All material for the next issue, scheduled to appear on December 9, must be in on or
before that date. The December number, the second of the year, will have a Christmas theme, replete with traditional Santa
Claus cartoons. The cover will be drawn by Fred Harbin, art editor, and will bear out the Yuletide theme. Sundry
student literary attempts and the usual features and columns will be included in the issue.

Pan-Hellenic To Give Dances

Seniors Will Conduct Mock Military Court

In the early part of December, the ROTC unit will conduct its annual “Mock” Court Martial. Lem Kornegay and Ovid
Bell have been chosen to draw up the case. Scotty Raynal and Louis Hipp will decide upon the personnel.

The “Mock” Court Martial will be carried out in strict military procedure, following war regulations explicitly. This group action, voted
on voluntarily by the senior members of the ROTC, culminates the senior course in military law conducted by Major J.J.
L. Ballard, who has had much experience in this field of army service.

Last year Lieutenant Sam Lowe was charged with assaulting his superior officer, First Lieutenant H. T. McFayden, with a saber.
Found guilty by the “Mock” Court Martial Board, Lieutenant Lowe was dismissed from service and confined with two years of
hard labor. He was also charged with two other offenses of which he was found not guilty. He was given
an opportunity for defending his three charges and witnesses were summoned for both the prosecution and the defense.

Christmas Dances

These dances will feature music by “Skeets” Morris and his Auburn Cavaliers. The dance will be held in the Charlotte
Armory instead of the Charlotte Hotel as last year. In regard to the petition presented to the faculty concerning the
costume ball, nothing has resulted so far. The Council has been getting up plans to add to the “dress up”
party.

There will be four dances, two tea dances, one formal dance on Friday night, and the regular informal dance on
Saturday night. As usual, the figure will be presented at the formal dance by the members of the Pan-Hellenic group
and alternates from each social fraternity. The musicians will feature a trumpet trio, a saxophone sextet, a piano duo, and
a vocal mixed trio. Skeets Morris and Miss Connie Moore, vocalists, combine with the entire band to form a glee
club.
