CAT-TALES By TONI CASALI DAVIDSON SPORTS

’Cats To Meet Furman’s Famed “House of Magic”

WEDNESDAY, OCT. 26, 1938

All-American selections by writers all over the country will soon appear all over sport pages, but no matter who makes it, some coach, player or fan will not agree with the selections. Not in order to rush things or disagree with the above named, and after reading accounts of most major games of the country, it looks like the following men should or will make the coveted team: Marshall Goldberg, Pittsburgh, at fullback and Captain Moore of Minnesota, and Cafego, of Tennessee, at half-backs; Luckman of Columbia at quarterback. On the end positions, Daddio of Pitt, and Holland of Cornell, lead the pack. Christian of Notre Dame and Aldrich of Texas get the tackle slots, while Lezovski of Pitt and Twedell of Minnesota take the guard posts. Hale of Texas Christian gets the snapper-back post over Brock of Nebraska and Duke’s Dan Hill.

Other outstanding possibilities include, ends—Wysockie, Villanova; Wyatt, Tenn.; Kavanaugh, L.S.U., and Young of Oklahoma. Wolffe of Santa Clara, Voights, Nebraska; Stoll of Calif., and Boyd of Texas A. & M. are all capable tackles. The guard standouts for the year include Smith of U.S.C., Zitrides from Dartmouth, Slivinski of Washington and Stoll of Calif. There is an array of fine backs and any of the following are possible first-stringers: McLeod of Dartmouth, Brunner of Tulane, Stebbins and Cassiano of Pitt, Lain from Rice, O’Brien of T.C.U., Bottari from Calif., Todd of Texas A&M, and Buhler of Minn.

When a player makes an All-American team picked by the better-known writers, it does not necessarily mean or show that he is the BEST man in the country for the position. The thing that makes a player an All-American is publicity naturally given in greater quantity to larger schools with the outstanding teams, but that still doesn't show that the players on these teams are better than the stars of smaller schools. We have backs and linemen in the Carolinas that are good players, possibly as good as some that will make the first team selections, but they will receive nothing better than an honorable mention. What coach could ask for a better backfield than one with Tipton, O'Mara, Stirnweiss and Rooney in it. These boys behind a line like Pitt boasts would do just as good as the Goldbergs, Cassianos, Stebbins and Chickerenos, but won't make the All-American simply because they don't rate the publicity that Pitt’s backs do.

Best scoring play of the year: as told to be an actual fact by one of the members of the student body. Two high school teams were battling it out for honors and neither team had been able to score. During the half the coach instructed one of the players to carry the first-down chain the next half and gave him other instructions. Soon after the second half started this same coach sent 10 players into the game and the eleven men on the field came off. The player carrying the chain made sure that he was inside the out of bounds line making him the eleventh man on the field. These ten players lined up and the fullback received the ball from center and faded back to toss a long sideline pass. The man carrying the line, after dropping the chain, scooped up the ball and waltzed 75 yards untouched to score the lone touchdown of the game. Sounds logical anyway.

Davidson’s line looked better than it has in any game this year. They stopped their running game cold last week against North Carolina. The Tar Heels, expecting to find easy pickings in the ‘Cat defense, certainly got fooled in the first half as the Davidson forward wall surged through. If it hadn't been for the trusty right arm of jumping George Stirnweiss and Jim “Sweet” Lalanne, it would have been a different story as to the final score. Those Tar Heels certainly took their learning seriously from Sammy Baugh last spring as they completed 13 out of 16 passes. That’s not bad in any football game.

Due to lack of space only a few guesses for next week's games will be made. DAVIDSON over Furman—DUKE over Carolina—TENNESSEE over L.S.U—N. C. STATE over V.P.I—CLEMSON over Wake Forest—PITT over Fordham—GA. TECH over Vanderbilt—NOTRE DAME over Army.

Phi Gams, Phi Delts, and Sig Eps Are Undefeated

Freshmen To Battle P. J. C.

Interfraternity touch football continued its rapid pace last week when three teams surged into the lead with the race being about one-third over. The Sig-Eps boasting two wins and no defeats are leading along with the Phi Gams and Phi Delts, each of whom have three wins and no defeats. Davidson's Wildkittens, fresh from a 13-6 victory over the Cat “B” team, dug in Monday for intensive practice for the Presbyterian Junior College game on Friday here.

In the first of the six games of the week the Phi Gams won over the KA's 6-0, when they scored 3 first downs and one touchdown on a pass from Shore to Jones. The Phi Delts were likewise triumphant over the Pikas when Bud Gilmore broke through to block a punt on the ten yard line which Bobby Williams scooped up and carried over for the only score of the game. The SPE’s beat the Betas on Wednesday 12-0, when Fitzgerald and Sample caught passes for touchdowns. The SAE’s eked out a close victory over the Pi Kaps by the margin of one first down on Thursday. The Phi Delts won rather decisively over the Betas by a score [Continued on Page Six]

coached by Steve Dirke’s former Davidson end, and although the yearlings have beaten P.J.C. in years past, they are considered stronger this year. The frosh have played three games this year, winning two and losing one. The first game they overwhelmed Wingate 31-2, but succumbed [Continued on Page Six]

Wildcats Are Underdogs In Furman Bout

Davidson Meets Hurricane at Greenville

Davidson’s Wildcats will journey to Greenville Saturday to meet the dangerous Purple Hurricane of Furman University. Furman, labeled the “House of Magic,” by sports scribes last year, is presenting again the varied deceptive attack that won them wide recognition last season. Davidson reached its peak in this game here last fall, as she defeated the favored Hurricane 13-9, clinching the game in the closing minutes of play with a long pass.

The Greenville Hurricane pulled a major surprise last week by flashing a great offensive attack to tie N. C. State 7-7. They had lost four previous starts to Bucknell, George Washington, University of Georgia, and The Citadel, having won only from Oglethorpe of Atlanta by one touchdown. Statistics show that the Greenville team outplayed the Wolfpack all the way through last Saturday and failed within the ten yard line twice on victory chances. Particularly outstanding was the defensive work of the Hurricane guards and tackles in stopping the Pack’s fleet set of backs.

Big Five Race Nears Climax

North Carolina’s Tar Heels meet Duke’s Blue Devils at Chapel Hill next Saturday in the feature game of the Southern Conference. It’s not a steamroller, but Luke Graham, Davidson’s gigantic first string right tackle, coming in the lineup for the next threeYears. A major factor in the success of the Davidson native North Carolinian, he played one of his best games against North Carolina last week. His sophomore year Luke came back to break into the varsity at you. After breaking his leg, he has become forward wall. During this time, Carolina's famed aerial attack received its final polish under fire last Saturday as they defeated Davidson 34-0. “Sweet” Jim Lalanne and George Stirnweiss promise to air. This should be offset, however, by the powerful running attack featuring Bob O'Mara, who has been tearing enemy lines to shreds all season. Erie (the Red) Tipton will also be back in the lineup after a three-week absence, which was felt by the entire team. Wake Forest's “Flaming Sophs” will meet Clemson in a game only overshadowed by the Duke-Carolina battle. 

Wake Forest enjoys a major advantage. The Frosh Lick All-Americans 13-6 in an interesting fray. For the first time in a decade, Davidson's freshman defeated the “B” squad in their annual clash, the score being 13-6. The yearlings scored twice early in the fray, and though outplayed during the last three quarters, managed to maintain a one-touchdown lead. Big Stan Yoder bucked the ball over the goal line to win. Gallovitch and Edwards scored the Kittens’ first marker, and a few minutes later was followed across the double stripes by Claude Hackney, an elusive halfback, after the latter had caught a five-yard pass from Spencer and run the remaining 15 yards to score. The Bees scored in the third period on a pass, Hunter to McLeskey, after a powerful running win 13-9. 

Furman’s “House of Magic” will show the Cats a varied and tricky offense. Last week, Wake Forest held Duke to a 7-0 decision, while Carolina overwhelmed Davidson and State tied Furman. Furman engages Davidson at Greenville in their annual battle. The ’Cats are the underdogs, as they were last year when they upset the dope. 

RAUL & CO. 415 SOUTH TRYON STREET Sporting Goods — YMES, Inc. CHARLOTTE, N. C. Ernest Ellison ERNEST ELLISON FIRE, CASUALTY, and MARINE INSURANCE 113-115 E. Fourth St.—Charlotte, N. C. Robt. E. Ellison Victor Decca Brunswick Vocalion Bluebird 35c-75c Each Any Record Not In Stock Can Be Quickly Secured PARKER-GARDNER CO. Phone 8257 LOCK HUNTER CHARLOTTE, N. C. 128 NORTH TRYON STREET MORROW & STONESTREET Radio Shop MOORESVILLE, N. C. Prompt and Dependable Repair Service —ON— Radios, Refrigerators, and Household Appliances Buy Where You Get Good Installation and Dependable Maintenance PHONES: Day 224 Night 4107—1249 

MIDNIGHT SHOW Halloween Plan now to see our big Halloween Spook Show, Sunday night, Oct. 30th. “BROTHER RAT” With... WAYNE MORRIS PRISCILLA LANE Balcony 25c Anytime Starts Monday Oct. 31st DEANNA DURBIN Melvin Douglas in “THAT CERTAIN AGE” 

STATISTICS Hand proved to be the best ground gainer for the Wildcats in their game with North Carolina. He averaged six yards a try for nine times. Fred Stair carried the ball four times and gained 24 yards for an average of six yards. Archie Steed gained 35 of Davidson's total 100 yards in ten tries for a three and one-half yard average. Bill Davis averaged three and one-half yards. The Wildcats connected with only five out of 18 attempts, but the punting average of Steed and Davis was 35 yards to 34 for the Tar Heels. Carolina had 16 first downs to nine for the 'Cats. 

BEAUTIFUL PERSONAL CHRISTMAS CARDS 50 Assorted, Lovely Designs for a Dollar. Best Quality $2.00, Name inscribed on each, DAVID NICHOLS & CO. Rockmart, Ga. 

After the Victory Saturday Come and Swing With The Buccaneers At The TEA DANCE GIVEN BY THE GREENVILLE DAVIDSON CLUB POINSETT HOTEL BALLROOM 5---7:30 

After holding Carolina’s backs well in check during most of the first half, Davidson bowed to an aerial attack that clicked thirteen out of sixteen times and brought the Tar Heels a 34-0 win on Saturday afternoon at Richardson field. Carolina's running attack was practically powerless during the first half as the Wildcat forward line consistently threw them back. Their first score came near the end of the first half, after they took the ball near midfield and combined passes and a penalty to bring the ball to the 'Cat three-yard line. Radman then carried it over after Lalanne failed twice through the line. George Stirnweiss headed the Carolina attack in the third quarter when they crossed the double stripes three times and added three extra points. The last score came in the fourth period, sparked by a Lalanne touchdown drive. 

’Cats Threaten Davidson's only serious threat came in the first quarter after a march to the nine-yard line, but Steed’s fourth down pass into the end zone was incomplete. Late in the game, Davis completed several passes from his own territory, but the game ended before the Davidsons got into pay dirt. 

Tubby Hand was the most consistent ground gainer for the Cats on runs through the line from his short back position. Cat passes failed to click most of the time, but Davis’ punts constantly pulled the Cats out of danger. Feature of the game was the accurate passing of “Sweet” Jim Lalanne and George Stirnweiss. Steve Maronic booted three more conversions to run his total for the season to eleven. Carolina used practically the entire squad during the game, while Coach Gene McEver also substituted liberally. 

Scrappy Cat Varsity Succumbs to Heels’ Passing Attack, 34-0 Lalanne and Stirnweiss Combine to Bomb Davidson After Ground Attack Fails — Tubby Hand Heads Davidson Ground-Gainers 

Net Tourney Nears Finish Rea Tenney, George Jones, and Dick Shore remained semi-finalists in the fall tennis tournament. Only one match was played during the week, as Miller Sproull and Bill Hamilton remained in the quarter-finals. The tourney reached the third round with Lucas, Crichton, Owens, and Carter still unbeaten in the frosh round. Talmadge, Thomas, and Wilson Coker went into the quarter-finals with an impressive win to back up his number one seeding. K. V. Lawson, tennis manager, announced that the remaining matches would have to be run off at once as cold weather and rain would soon make the courts unplayable. The tournament has been in progress for several weeks. 

Harriers Lose North Carolina's cross country teams left both the Davidson varsity and freshmen in the lurch last Saturday as Carolina won the former meet 15-52 and the latter 15½ to 47½. Five of the Tar Heel varsity harriers crossed the finish line hand in hand before Woodward finished to score for Davidson. Walker was forced to drop out before the finish because of blisters. The Tar Heel frosh placed four men before Coppedge tied with Earl of Carolina for fifth place. Vawter of Carolina finished first in 10:42. 

Fraternity Stationery 60 Sheets-50 Envelopes $1.00 College Pharmacy. 

National presents Westbrooke Hats $2.95 Smartly Styled Fine Quality New Shapes and Colors NATIONAL SHIRT SHOPS 

Stay With the Team at The Poinsett Hotel Carolina’s Finest GREENVILLE, SOUTH CAROLINA