WEDNESDAY, OCT. 12, 1938 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Five

Eight Vesper Services Arranged By Dr. Lingle
Complete Plans For Sundays Until Christmas Include Two Musicals

Dr. Lingle has announced the schedule of ministers who have been secured to speak at the Davidson College vespers up
until the Christmas Vesper service.

Next Sunday, Rev. J. R. Cunningham, D.D., pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Winston-Salem, will speak. The following Sunday,
Oct. 23, Bishop J. Kenneth Pfohl, father of Prof. J. C. Pfohl of the Davidson Music department, will be the
speaker.

Musical Vespers

On Sunday, October 30, a musical program will be given by Rev. and Mrs. A. McKelway, of Pinehurst, and Mrs.
Gibson, of Sanford. They form a quartet which specializes in sacred music. One of the ministers will give a short
talk in connection with the musical program.

For the first Sunday in November, Davidson will have as guest minister Rev. Watson M. Fairley, of Raeford, an alumnus
and now Moderator of the Presbyterian Synod of North Carolina. On November 13, Rev. B. D. Lacy, D.D., president of
Richmond Theological Seminary and well-known alumnus of Davidson, will speak. The musical organizations of Davidson College will give a program
at the vespers on November 20. On November 27, Reverend Charles Woodbridge, D.D., pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of
Salisbury, will speak, and on December 4, Rev. W. A. Smart, D.D., of Emory University, will be guest minister. December
11 is the date set for the Christmas Vespers.

Photographic Club Will Convene Tonight in Dr. Lyon's Classroom

At seven fifteen tonight and every Wednesday night hereafter, the Photographic Club will meet at the classroom of Dr. S.
C. Lyons for the purpose of forwarding the interest in photography. Membership in the club is open to all students
who are interested in photography. Rufus Allison, a leader whose efforts have partly made possible the organization of the club
this year, reports that a very successful meeting was held last Wednesday night. The club made plans to elect officers
tonight. Announcements were made concerning the contest that is now being staged in which all participants take snapshots of the
various views of the front of Chambers building. This contest terminates November the first, and from the appearance of the
excellent talent on the campus it should prove to be quite successful. Dr. Lyons, the club sponsor, will offer his
efforts in helping the club this year. The members are helped, too, by the procedure at each meeting, the main
part of which deals with the criticism of the prints made by members during the week. This procedure will be
the program at every meeting in the future.

Pre-Med Frat Makes Plans
Dr. MacConnell to Inaugurate Lecture Series

Alpha Epsilon Delta, honorary pre-medical fraternity, will hold its next meeting at 8:30 P.M., Friday, October 14th in the psychology
laboratory. At this time Dr. J. W. MacConnell will address the group.

First and second round matches of the tennis tournament are under way. Shore, Woodbridge, Tenney, and George Jones are ahead.

Caught “Red-Handed” In Project

Assistants Under Dave McLean Develop Activities in Colored Section

The newest department of the Davidson “Y,” Colored Work, is now developing very rapidly under the leadership of Dave McLean,
“Y” Cabinet representative for that department. A colored Boy Scout troop has been organized, with McLean as scoutmaster, and Bob
Garvey, Vernon Youngblood, and Andy Dale as his assistants. The troop meets every week, and now boasts an enrollment of
26 active members. A seven-mile hike to the Catawba River has been planned for this Saturday. Albert Winn and Bill
McLauchlin are organizing a colored troop at Cornelius.

Sports Organized

At the colored high school, Sid Sample, Andy Dale, and Ralph Monger are directing football, volleyball, and other minor sports.
In the three colored churches, several boys are helping with the teaching work. Nelson Smith, Campbell Baird, Hector McLean, Dave
Coblentz, Boyd Flynn, and Watson Street, the pastor, is well known to Davidson upperclassmen, having graduated with the class of
1938. He was valedictorian, freshman class president, and a member of Omicron Delta Kappa.

Street's Work

Despite all his achievements on the campus, however, he was best known for the work which he did for the
mill village across the tracks, and especially for his work in Unity Church. He became pastor there in the early
part of the last school year, and made quite a name for himself both as an organizer and as a
preacher. The highlight of his year’s work came at Christmas when the people of Unity Church presented him with a
gift in appreciation of his services.

Two Parties

Two parties have been held this year by the young people of the church. The junior department enjoyed a treasure
hunt under the direction of Rod Williams, who presented the finder of the treasure with a bag of candy. Last
Friday night, the Intermediate Girls’ department entertained at a party, and the church Boy Scout troop attended.

Tennis Match Is Under Way

Shore, Woodbridge, Tenney, and George Jones Are Ahead

The tennis tournament is now being staged, with Shore, Woodbridge, Tenney, and George Jones leading in the first and second
round matches.

‘Y’ Workers Camera Man Discovers Successful Artists of Town Tank

Silver Moon Betrays Culprits As They Paint Freshman Numerals

As everybody knows by this time, on last Sunday night at some late hour, some member or members of the
freshman class upheld the age-old tradition of that downtrodden and persecuted race by painting its class numerals in brilliant red
paint upon the lofty perch of the town water tank. But, as everybody doesn’t know, even those of the freshman
painting committee, someone saw them committing the dastardly crime, and that someone now has in his possession a photograph of
the culprits at work!

The freshmen who put the “42” upon the water tank made one big mistake. They picked a night when the
full moon was out, and though that moon lit their work, it also betrayed their presence to the aforementioned “someone”
who happened to be one of The Davidsonian’s ace photographers, always on the spot when big news incidents break. The
photographer, returning from a nocturnal mission somewhere in the vicinity of Davidson's main street, was idly musing as he approached
the general region from which rises the towering structure whereupon generation after generation of Davidson gentlemen have implanted for posterity
the famous numerals which mark the year in which they were to graduate (they thought). Perhaps the lone wanderer was
thinking of this when he allowed his gaze to shift upward, in the light of the moon. Suddenly he gasped,
and whipped out his ever-present and ever-trustworthy Argus, for there around the tank were figures, and upon the silver background
a four and a two were taking shape. Rapidly adjusting his shutter and lens, he snapped the picture.

Pictured above is the culprit guilty of adorning the town water tank with the numerals of the class of '42.
Flaming red paint, as usual, was used by this prankster, but he made himself wholly different from any preceding tank-painters
by being caught red-handed in the act—by one of the ever-alert DAVIDSONIAN photographers.

THE GREEKS

Beta Theta Pi—

Brother Bob Eller and wife, the former Miss Ula Folger of Charlotte, spent the week-end in western North Carolina on
their honeymoon. The election of pledge officers was held, with results as follows: Bill Fetzer, president; Frank Atwater, vice president;
George Matthews, secretary and treasurer; Bob Powell, historian. Dr. O. L. Joyner of Burwell in Charlotte. Brothers Rainey, Scott Cooper,
Hill Cooper, Jimmy Cooper, Hunter, Myatt, Pittman, Yates, Hudson, Ross and Pledges Harrison, Hogg, Burwell attended the VMI-Clemson game in
Charlotte. Most of the brothers also attended the Military Ball Saturday night. The usual feed was held at the house
on Sunday night.

Many salesmen think they have gone over their territories with a fine-tooth comb when really they have used a horse
rake.

The man who is afraid to do too much for people he does business with need not be afraid of
having too much business to do.Kernersville, He GAT If you have made your own bed, the church presented a Christmas!
he aimed carefully at his unsuspecting prey and shot! As a result and Brother Alumnus Oren Moore Pi Kappa Alpha—
don't grumble about the lumps in pageant, of his excellent aim, he became visited the house during the weekend, Brother
W. K. Russell of the mattress. After his graduation from Day the first photographer to witness Toms River, N. J.,
also was a guest Girls present were Phyllis Crooks, Davidson last spring, Street was persuaded to delay his study for
the for future generations this daring of the chapter. Hazel Barefoot, Catherine Gibbs, ministry another year to continue misdemeanor of
“the rats”—and Louise White, Julia Edwards, Bet- his pastorship at the church. (Continued on Page Six) Springer, Dot Muse, Julia
Hobbs first few shots. Springer Sons Kappa Alphas Lucille and Miller Sproull, Norman Stevenson, President Calvin is planning a Billy
Turner, Dill Marque, and trip to Birmingham, Ala., this week Andy Dale went bowling in Char- end to see the
Alabama-Tennessee lotte. Tommy Glenn and Bob game. Brother Sam Spencer will Williams traveled to Spartanburg accompany him. To Charlotte for
to visit Converse girls. the game and dance went Hines, Taylor, Summerell, Marion, McLean, Pratt, Woodward, and Lemmon. Pledges Dennis,
Huston, interdi and Mitchell also took in the festivities. Brother Newell spent the weekend at his home in Atlanta, Ga.
Brother Spencer had as his guest Sunday Miss Mary Lib Pratt. Brother Gladden went to Rock Hill. Kappa Sigma— Brethren
Hudson Charlotte Rainey Ross and were entertained royally in Brother at the on the Pledge spent weekend home of BEAUTIFUL
PERSONAL CHRISTMAS CARDS 50 Assorted, Lovely Designs for Dollar. Best Quality $2.00. Name inscribed on each, DAVID NICHOLS & CO.
Rockmart, Ga. It has been the custom of this of the annual Fall Tennis Tournament organization in past years to
bring ment were run off last week with to its members lectures by men the favorites of the tourney advancing
who have attained medical eminence without any upsets. in North Carolina, Dr. MacConnell’s This tourney's purpose is twofold: address Friday
night will to get a better line on the be the first of such programs this ability of the prospects
for the tennis year. team, and secondly, to note the As in the past, some of the lectures improvement of
last year’s members this year will be open only to during the summer. members of Alpha while at others the
membership will be augmented by those who are invited by members. The following men have been invited to attend Friday
night: H. L. Bahnson, Bob Balsley, Lem Kornegay, H. Couingen, Harry Bing, Julian Lokey, W. Rose, Charles Sherman, and Sam
Walker. Complete results in the first round matches are as follows: Hines defeated Myers 6-3, 6-3; Ficklen won over Flynn
6-0, 6-1; Hamilton won over White by default; Foote defeated Beach 6-4, 6-2; Sproull defeated Cauble 6-0, 6-3; Bumbarger won
over Wood 6-2, 6-2; McLean defeated Taylor 6-3, 2-6, 6-3. Second round results were: Tenney, seeded No. one, defeated Hines,
6-0, 6-1; George Jones, seeded No. two, won over Ficklen, 6-0, 6-1; Hamilton won by default; Lock Hunter, seeded No.
three defeated Dave McLean 6-1, 6-0; Dick Shore won over O. V. Armstrong 7-5, 6-2. In the quarter-finals Monday afternoon,
Shore won over Lock Hunter. GROCERIES HARDWARE ... RADIOS... M. H. GOODRUM & CO. Cars For Rent M. P. Henderson
Davidson, N. C. —GULF GAS & OIL— Slacks 115 West Trade Street Charlotte, N. C. New Fall Styles in Hats
- Sweaters - Shirts - Ties MEN’S SHOP Morgan disrupted Albemarle during the weekend. Mr. Merrill Blevins of Harlan, Ky.,
visited the chapter over the weekend. The parents of Pledge Linville and friends visited the house on Sunday. The chapter
was honored by the presence of Miss Helen Cumnock and Miss “Dot” Brandon at the regular Sunday night feed. Brother
Cooper was present at the dog convention in Florence. Sigma Alpha Epsilon— Over the weekend the chapter welcome Brother Miller
from Laurens, S. C. Brothers Bahnson and Marchant visited in Greenville, S. C., while Brother Thomas went to his home
in Ramseur. Brothers Celenteny, Ficklen, Currie, C. Smith, S. Smith, A. McLean, Erwin attended the VMI-Clemson game in Charlotte. A.
McLean, C. Smith, S. Smith also went to the dance later given at the Charlotte Armory. Pledge Brothers Jones, Shackelford,
Hackney, Faison went to Charlotte Saturday afternoon. Phi Gamma Delta— A feed and sing was held on Sunday night at
the house with Dr. and Mrs. Cumming and Dr. and Mrs. Watts as special guests. Tyree Dillard of New York
City, class of 28, also visited chapter over the weekend. John Parker, newly elected field secretary of the Phi Gams,
was the chapter’s guest from Thursday to Saturday night. Col. Liipfert spent the weekend in Winston-Salem. Phi Delta Theta— At
the Erskine game on Friday night were Bill Boyd and Read Harmon with dates from Winthrop. Over the weekend most
of the brothers and pledges either went to Charlotte or to places nearby. It’s our best seller! Tessie Oxford with
Crepe Soles. Pair $5.00. MEN’S SHOP. CHARGE: ONLY AT IVEY’S This Crosby-Square (With Crepe Soles) 5.00 IVEY’S IN CHARLOTTE! You
too will like its style and quality. A value for the money! FIRST FLOOR Printing — Dial 3-3727 A COMPLETE
service as near as your Telephone. For a representative of The Davidsonian STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY ESTABLISHED 1907 Garland Court CHARLOTTE,
N. C.
