Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, OCT. 12, 1938

Heil Hitler... The Davidsonian

These two words give a picture of goose-stepping Germans with their right arms paralyzed in a stiff-armed salute. One sees an ex-paperhanger holding his people together with a conscienceless hand, and ruthlessly carrying out his vicious program in spite of what seems to be insurmountable opposition. BUT, Hitler has one thing we at Davidson seem to have lost recently. That is spirit. Shall we draw a parallel? A great deal of Hitler's getting what he wants depends on the push given by the German people. They do not sit back and indifferently watch him go into action; they root for him and let him know that they are for him.

Last Friday we saw our team trample Erskine but they did it without the support of the student body. There was no cooperation given to the cheerleaders, none of that constant chatter that has been characteristic of our games in the past, and that helps keep the team on their toes. The crowd just sat in the stands casually watching the game, and offering little support, if any at all. That is not the Wildcat Spirit. In the next few weeks, our team is going to have a hard time of it, and it will need all the support that the Student Body can give it. Let’s get out and give it all the support we can, and win those games.

Another thing. The Davidson Wildcat spirit is not like an ROTC shirt to be worn only on occasion, but is like your underwear and is in style all year round. That includes friendliness on the campus. There are a few upperclassmen and more freshmen who hardly ever speak to those they pass on the campus, and then emit only a growl. By now you all ought to be able to see that it is time we snap out of it and get back that old Wildcat Spirit that leads to victory.

—STUART R. OGLESBY.

From Campus to Campus

Washington, D. C. (ACP) The Dies Committee which is investigating un-American activities will probably pry into the operations of left-wing student groups and youth organizations, if its request for increased funds is granted by Congress. Charges of Communism and other subversive doctrines have been volunteered against some of these organizations, as well as data in support of the charges. However, no witnesses will be called and no formal investigation of the charges will be made during the current sessions of the committee.

Waco, Texas (ACP) Baylor University students have a new way of determining what courses they’ll take. Each student takes a personality test before making out his class schedule—a test that shows his psychological tendencies. Results of these tests are combined with aptitude, scholastic record, and study habits to tell faculty members how to advise their charges. School officials believe the new plan will reduce the number of failures.

Syracuse, N. Y. (ACP) After five years of experimenting with courses on marriage problems, Syracuse University this fall established one of the first full-credit classes in the subject. But, though 80 percent of the men voted in a student referendum in favor of the course, not a single male registered for the new class. Men, not afraid of marriage or the discussion of it, are afraid of registering in a home economics department course, officials believe, for it is in that division that the subject is offered.

Washington, D. C. (ACP) Tax collectors are going to college this fall, especially on Saturdays. For with the recent supreme court ruling that football is not an essential educational activity, football games are pouring thousands of dollars into the federal treasury each Saturday from the ten percent tax on each ticket over 40 cents. Experts estimate that the government will collect $50,000 on a good Saturday—and a “good Saturday” is one on which approximately 500,000 spectators pass through the stadium turnstiles.

It’s queer you can’t drive a car down the street without meeting everybody you owe.

The man who wins may have been counted out several times, but he didn’t hear the referee.

GOLFED IN EVERY STATE OF THE UNION SHE HAS WON MANY CHAMPIONSHIPS AND IS CONSIDERED AMONG THE NATION'S BEST WOMEN STARS.

Letters To The Editor

Dear Bill:

One of our distinctive traditions is degenerating into buffoonery. Daily chapel with its devotional, its student meetings, and its frequency does much to improve Davidson's spirit and democracy; her friendship and cordiality. In the past few years, the conduct of students as a group has gradually become more and more boisterous so that present conduct endangers the deriving of any benefits whatsoever from chapel exercises. Chapel is almost vital to the administration and governing of such a school as ours. Gradual increase in misbehavior during the past few years has been protected on the grounds that it improves school spirit, and therefore should be allowed to grow. Many on the campus agree that the spirit is better this year than last and that the chapel conduct is worse. There is no defense here. Why then do we become a seething mob of incorrigibles during chapel? Mainly because mob psychology and group spirit so influence a few shining souls that they use the cover of concentrated groups to hide their antics. These acts, used only in crowds, are betraying earmarks of their lack of individuality and backbone.

Recent appeals by the college president, by chapel speakers, and by individuals have failed to stem the tide. My appeal is not to the student body, but to you as an individual who is conscientious enough to read this comment. We individual students can help preserve a Davidson tradition that is valuable, but which is being endangered by a few whose acts are very detrimental. We can use these means to help make Davidson chapels a benefit: Our tactfully spoken word, our influence, our decorous example. We, acting as individual students, can keep our chapel from dropping to a jam-session for the jitter-bugs and from dwindling to a warped mirror that reflects the shallow shines of our silly students. We individually can improve chapel conduct.

—ARISTOTLE.

Dear Editor:

Have you been looking at the moon these past few evenings? You should have seen it Monday evening as I was walking on the Freshman Field. It was a warm moon, the kind that makes you open up inside. The grass was given a silvery color, like that which we see ona frosty winter morning, before the sun has turned Jack Frost's lace into mere browned grass. A soft breeze, warm, soothing, and pungent with the smoke from autumn bonfires, caressed my cheeks until I scarcely knew whether I stood at the foot of a luminous fountain or at the edge of a clearing in the trees. There I stood among all the fantastic beauties of the night, but one thing was lacking—I stood alone. Now, Editor, that is really a pretty tough situation. How much more I would have enjoyed the evening if I could have but had a companion, an understanding companion, with whom to share the beauties of the evening. As I view Davidson's history in retrospect, I can only feel that Davidson has not found its fullest expression, as long as its membership is limited almost unanimously to the type of student that now fills its noble halls. How Davidson needs the type of student that could have enjoyed that beautiful evening in my company. Seriously, the woods and fields are beautiful this time of autumn. The air is brisk, and invigorating. One comes in from an hour in the with a new outlook and enthusiasm for work. An evening stroll is a relaxation which the movies can never rival. The movies are an escape from life; while a walk in the open brings us back to life as it should be, to a life that we forget in our mechanical hurry and haste. The opening of this letter may have fooled you; but if you have not until this sentence discovered what I am really trying to get at, you are the very person who should follow my advice. You need to get your mind out of the rut, and to look at the world in its beauty. The type of student that I ask for is a man who is a good companion in the open, who loves nature, who loves good books, and good music. With such a man for a companion, I can think of nothing finer than to walk in the woods and the fields, to talk over our interests and problems, to share our joy in the beauty of the world, and above all to find true friendship. Sissy stuff? Perhaps you may think so, but men like Washington, Lincoln, and Lee did the same —J.H.R.

Your Film Report Card
By CHARLIE LUTHER

Thur.-Fri. Oct. 13-14
Marie Antoinette — The most lavish film ever produced in Hollywood. It is superb, this magnificent effort to make you happy, if weepingly sentimental over the young Queen of France who lost her head in 1793. Tyrone Power being her lover. The result is the story of a Hollywood queen rather than France’s poor, unhappy queen. The cast did all they could to overcome the weakness of the script. A truly great story in spite of its diversion from true history and deserves well three stars.

Saturday, Oct. 15
Garden of the Moon — Pat O'Brien cutting capers as a hard-boiled, chiseling night club owner. John Payne attractively performing as an obscure band leader who makes good in a big way; Margaret Lindsay as appealing love interest, and Hollywood Newsman Jim Fidler are the attractions. To their credit they make an overworked story idea entertaining screen fare. Too long but on the whole affable light comedy with music.

Mon.-Tues. Oct. 17-18
Vacation From Love—Couldn’t find a bit of dope on this show after some desperate hunting, could not even find the cast. Imagine that it is one of the shows on the other side of the fence. Some of you have entirely the wrong conception of this column. I am not trying to write a diary—for censored items—so please don’t connect these scraps of information about myself together any more and force me to tell the little white lie that I am not the Super Snooper. I am not obligated to let you know my whereabouts you can confirm your suspicions; I'll leave out the diary first.

Football comes to the campus! For the first time this year the Wildcats were playing in their own back yard and did they mow down the Seceders. What we have not decided is whether the yells were louder when the 'Cats crushed Erskine or when the student body awoke to the reaming they have received from the “Powers that be” this year. Two fifty for student and date at the State game and then no reserved seats with more tickets sold than the section’s seating capacity, one twenty-five for a girl’s ticket last Friday in a less than half-filled stadium to see a team defeated which even the freshmen probably could lick; but the crowning blow was regularly scheduled classes Friday afternoon. The only conclusion I can see is that the football games are only a method to get money from the students if and when they get a chance to attend. Davidson certainly offers little enough facilities for social life, especially for non-fraternity men, the price is almost prohibitive.

Well, the strains of “Oh Promise Me” have carried away another good Beta from the easy life of bachelorhood to the realm of wedlock. Best wishes to Mr. and Mrs. Robert Eller. Straight dope from reliable henchmen: Rush of Collegians to view wonders of the Goldfish Bowl —Mike Munoz slightly frustrated after chance encounter with a member of the Russian aristocracy—Fred Stair, Bob McClellan, Julian Lokey, Cage Brewer, and John Latimer report enjoyable outing at Rozzelle Ferry — Tom Crichton conducting the informal meeting with George Ficklen adding a touch of esquirity to his position of chief bird shooter—Tom McLean, Caton Dennis, and Charlie Hines having themselves a time with Hines developing a motherly instinct. T. P. Porter, Wesley Coghill, and Tom Mullen being eyed with envy by all dinner eaters—Bill Ross taking Sam Hemphill’s place as public snake number one in ousting VMI cadet to have Sarah Ruork to himself—Bill Turner, vice president in charge of welcoming Cadets and dates while demonstrating great physical feats—Bill Lemon, a Clemson day student for a night—“Geech” Montgomery marching to the game with Citadel Cadets although he attends P. C. — Dark haired Phi Delt sweetheart most popular girl with VMI Cadets.

Congratulations to Cage Brewer! Word has been received from the founders of Beta Upsilon Tau fraternity that Brewer is making the greatest record of any pledge in history in living up to the principles of this national honorary fraternity. May we suggest that the freshman posing so sweetly on page five of this week's paper consult a plastic surgeon.

In the Groove
By TOM PERRIN

TANK ... This year’s Court of Control gets the chance to sink its teeth into the case of the painted water tank at last. We're hoping they prove better detectives than the last body of freshman rulers. But of course the jobs were complicated last year by the fact that freshmen had no part in them—at least that is the story our spies bring us. Our men tell us more, too; but that is in the province of Super Stupor, and we want no part of it.

BRUSH ... Incidentally, there was a perfectly good reason why the “42” was so poorly painted. The artists were inexperienced enough to use a paint brush about one inch wide, which is a little small for six foot letters. We have a pretty good idea of the size of the brush, for the good reason that it was in our possession. It was picked up at the site of the crime late Monday. We turned it over to the Court yesterday.

IN STEP ... Somebody called our attention to a little irregularity at the Erskine game; and just in case you didn’t notice, we'll do the same for you. The college band marched on the field, you remember, with really admirable precision. That is, with one exception. As far as we could see there wasn’t a musician on the field in step with the Professor-Conductor.

PAMPHLETS ... Davidson isn’t exactly the place where you would expect to find propaganda pamphlets in our opinion. It is about as far removed from isms as any place we can think of. But just the same the library receives an occasional booklet or magazine that is more or less subtly out to make a good impression for somebody. For example, there was an issue on one of the hall racks recently of a magazine dedicated to making Germany seem the most tranquil and friendly of nations. Some of them are pretty interesting, if you're curious. There is a little nifty on display now called “China at War,” frankly published from the bulletins of the China Information Committee of Hankow. If you read it you will probably finish a little sad at the plight of the humble Japanese who find themselves fighting a whole nation of unconquerable heroes.

RUMPLE ... If you have been in Rumple lately, you have no doubt noticed a good sized bulletin posted by the phone in the western half. It calls itself the “Official Hall Directory.” Obviously it is the work of somebody on the hall, and it manages to have everybody’s name appear on it several times, either as head of something or other, or assistant to a department, or an agent for somebody’s goods. Also included are such campus centers as the residences of the Pandemonium Council and the Beleaguered Yanks (Yank at Davidson — Milne’s, of course), Haven for It is exactly the sort of thing to tell you where to go and what to see in Rumple. Or what to avoid.

PRE-FROSH ... It is pretty straight stuff that one of the town boys who is a freshman here now used to have great fun about a year ago getting men of the class of ‘41 to carry his laundry. We wonder how many of this year’s sophs recognize and remember.

The world would be a better place if everybody could spare a few minutes now and then to make the area surrounding him a little better.

The lazy man is bad enough, but the man who tries to do it all is the limit.

Dost love life? Then squander not time, for that is the stuff life is made of.

Records are made to be broken they are but steps to greater achievement.

A jury consists of twelve men chosen to decide who has the better lawyer.

None of us ever gets anything for nothing, but a lot of people keep on trying.

If men were as anxious to do right as they are to get their “rights,” the world would soon be righted.

The stepping stones to success can be dug out of the business quarry only with work and lots of it.