“WEDNESDAY, OCT. 12, 1938 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Three

Question of the Week

Colleges throughout the country have attracted considerable attention during the past few years by ruling against flowers being sent by
men to their bids to student dances. This argument has descended recently to the Davidson campus. This fall there have
been rumors that “flowerless” dance sets would be adopted. Therefore, the question put to a cross-section of the student body
this week is: “Do you think that corsages and other flowers should be banned at Davidson dances?” Do you feel
that Davidson men should be asked not to send flowers to their bids for the dances?

Melvin Means, Junior: I think flowers are all right for all but mid-winters, where the price is so much higher.
The rule should be general, however, and not optional. Usually there are a lot of other expenses like fraternity banquets
and girls’ meals in addition to the ticket. A good band would make up for the lack of flowers.

Kenneth McLean, Senior: I think it is a boy's prerogative to decide whether he should give his date flowers or
not. Consequently, it should be left up to him alone. Davidson has only four dance sets a year. I see
no reason why we should be cutting corners since this would, in reality, detract from the dances.

Joe Gordon, Sophomore: I feel it would be a good thing if everyone would abide by it. If the rule
is going to be optional we shouldn't have it at all; it could be very embarrassing to some boys.

Don Davidson, Senior, (He sells ’em): I approve of the custom which exists, not on the Davidson campus alone, but
in most American colleges, of giving corsages to dance “dates.” I believe that a corsage priced according to a student's
means adds a great deal to his own and his girl’s enjoyment of a weekend. Since Davidson has fewer dances
than most other colleges in its class, I feel that we should hardly consider lowering the quality of those weekends
which we are allowed.

“Mike” Munoz, Sophomore: I think they should do away with flowers, and send them if at all only at mid-winters.
The cost of the ticket, incidentals, and flowers for fall and spring dances comes too high. I believe girls understand
this and won't feel slighted.

Charlie Smith, Junior: No, I am for flowers! I think their color and fragrance really add to the atmosphere of
our dances. I feel that flowers are the one gift that a student can give to a girl just out
of pure respect for her; for flowers have no lasting value and are just a token of your esteem and
admiration for the young lady who is your guest for the weekend.

Hewes Parrish, Sophomore: I think it would be a good thing to ban them, that is, if everyone would follow
this custom. It would cut down that extra expense.

Dr. Lingle Talks For Sunday School Rally

Sunday, October 9, Dr. W. L. Lingle delivered a talk for the First Presbyterian Church at Shelby, N. C., in
connection with their annual Sunday School Rally Day. On next Sunday he is to speak at the Unity Presbyterian Church
at Fort Mill, S. C., in connection with the celebration of the Sesqui-Centennial Founding of the Church and the dedication
of their new religious education building. He plans to deliver an address at a meeting of the Colonial Dames at
the Woman's Club in Charlotte on Saturday, Oct. 15.

A man should never be ashamed to own that he has been in the wrong; it is but saying, in
other words, that he is wiser today than he was yesterday.

Phi Society Entertains Candidates

Literary Group Will Take in Twenty New Members This Year

The Philanthropic Literary Society held its second meeting of the year Thursday night during which candidates for membership were considered.
First, Archer Torrey, head of the membership committee, made a report on the new men seeking admittance to the society.
Then, in accordance with the new regulation that requires every prospective member to make a speech or read a paper
before he may be accepted, the club heard several freshmen read their self-composed orations. This year the group plans to
take in around twenty new members which will bring the total enrollment to about fifty men.

The early part of the meeting was taken up in discussion of plans for a joint meeting with the Spectator
Club of Queens-Chicora College. If the affair takes place it will be held in Myers Park Presbyterian Church Hut. In
order that all the boys will have dates, Olive Croswell, president of the Queens group, has sent Rod Williams a
list of the Spectators for the Philanthropic boys to sign up with. Jack Abernathy, president of the society, who was
in charge of the business meeting, brought it to a close by appointing a committee to be in charge of
the refreshments for the party. This proposed joint meeting is one of the many planned between the two literary societies
during the coming year.

Last night, in the regular meeting of the Phi society, Dr. Williamson of the Davidson Economics department led a discussion
upon the European situation, its complexities, and its possible outcome. After his talk the floor was cleared for open discussion
in which a large number of members participated.

Bulletin Gives South’s Views

Latest Issue Shows Davidson College Needs Many Improvements

The latest Davidson Alumni bulletin brings up a number of the South’s social and economic problems in relation to Davidson.
Dealing with this question, the bulletin states that the South has a higher percentage of native-born Americans than any other
part of the country. As a result, there are a number of political and social “isms” in the South that
are smaller in any other part of America.

Dr. McConnell Writes

The late Dr. J. Moore McConnell, who taught at Davidson College for more than thirty years, once wrote: In the
opinion of many students of American history and life, more of the original and fundamental institutions of our nation that
have contributed largely to its greatness have been preserved in the South than in any other section of our country.
We feel that the men of the South, who are themselves native to this section, should give thought and consideration
to the problem of preserving the ideals, spirit, and institutions of this section.

The Alumni bulletin states that Davidson College is the kind of institution described by Dr. McConnell. The founders of Davidson
were born back in the days of George Washington, Thomas Jefferson, James Madison, and other great Southern statesmen. If Davidson
is expected to continue to keep step with educational progress she will have to be given more adequate equipment for
her second century task than she had for her first century. Some of the more urgent needs of Davidson College
are: a new library; a new science building; a new church; more playing fields; a new gymnasium; a new dormitory;
a social center; a greatly increased endowment.

Now in Knox Building

HENDERSON JEWELRY SHOP
WATCH AND JEWELRY REPAIRING
Davidson, N. C.

Wonder What an Auto Graveyard Thinks About

FIGGERED STOP MEANT STOP

THINK IDLET ANOTHER FOOL PASS ME

Fellowship Society Holds First Meeting

Use Oxford Type Discussion in Consideration of World Problems

On last Friday night at 7 o’clock, the members of the Eumenean Literary Society held their first regular meeting in
the Eu Hall. The Oxford type discussion, in which any member may participate when acknowledged by the chair, was carried
out very successfully. Philip Peyton opened the discussion with a speech in regard to the Munich Accord, and his talk
was followed by a brilliant repartee from Daniel Gilliam, an authority on Czechoslovakian ethnology, after which Jimmy Cooper described the
attitude of America toward war. Stuart Oglesby was then called on for his report on the “Militaristic Attitude of America.”
George Fall

Services

Popular Charlotte Pastor Returns to Lead Services For Second Time

Dr. John A. Redhead, pastor of the Second Presbyterian Church of Charlotte, will conduct the fall Services of the Y.
M. C. A. from Oct. 25th to 27th. This will be the second time that the Charlotte pastor will have
led these services, held under the auspices of the Davidson College Y. M. C. A. twice each school year.

Led Previous Services

Since Dr. Redhead has been in Charlotte he has won a reputation as a forceful and appealing speaker, especially to
those of college age. Those who were at Davidson last year will remember him, as he led the last service
of the fall of 1935 and be-Boggs, him to evening in the cause of his success Wade wy” return. An
vesper the fall first time campus, spring. Led for services he on secretary, has asked. He is a graduate of
Southwestern University and was a leader while there. After completing his course at Southwestern, Dr. Redhead held the Lodge Fellowship
for the year 1929-30 and continued his preparation for the ministry at the Union Theological Seminary in Richmond, Va. He
is a member of the Kappa Sigma social fraternity and a letterman in both football and basketball.

Students who wish to have conferences with Dr. Redhead during his stay may do so by appointment with Mr. Boggs.
This fall, Dr. Redhead will lead daily services during the three days that he will be on campus, during the
chapel hour and at 7:15 each evening. Dr. Donald G. Barnhouse from Philadelphia led these services last fall, and Dr.
Bill Gardner of Atlanta conducted spring services.

Open Bowling Alley

The opening of the new bowling alley, located next to the Davidson bank, Monday night, was attended by a large
number of Davidson students. The proprietors, Mr. Manning and Mr. Freeman, offered the first game free of charge to each
customer.

REX RECREATION
125-127 S. Tryon St.
Billiards Bowling

Drink a Quart of Milk a Day
Drink Pasteurized Milk, It’s Safe
MOORESVILLE CREAMERY
Mooresville, North Carolina

Dr. Redhead to Conduct Y.M.C.A.

Gwynn Speaks On Paradoxes
“Christian Self-Reliance” Subject of Lesson

Completing a series of two lessons on psychological subjects, Dr. H. Price Gwynn, professor of psychology, addressed the student Sunday
School class on “Christian Self-Reliance” at the regular meeting Sunday morning. With Phi Hall filled almost to capacity, Dr. Gwynn
launched his address with a short discussion of Bible paradoxes. One of the most important of these is the two
opposing doctrines of a Christian's reliance on God and his reliance on himself. These constituted his two addresses.

Taking his text from Paul's adjuration to Timothy to “endure hardness as a good soldier of Jesus Christ,” the psychology
professor stressed the discipline required for one to lead a truly Christian life. He went on to show that self-reliance
is a sine qua non to a progressive social order. He deplored the pauperizing of thousands of citizens by constant
relief.

Citing the history of an inhabitant of this county who returned from the Civil War maimed in body and wrecked
financially, who made a living from the soil, Dr. Gwynn thundered: “He couldn’t go to Raleigh for relief. He had
to rely upon himself and God.”

Stressing still further the need for discipline and self-reliance in personal and national life, Dr. Gwynn closed with an appeal
for Christian young men to endure hardness, to run the race, and to fight the fight as a good soldier
of Jesus Christ.

Unsung Force Behind Teams
His Fine Work Keeps Squads In Good Condition

Many students over the last five years have come and graduated at Davidson, never hearing of “Doc.” To the college
as a whole, he is just another forgotten but important personage. Tall and lanky, slightly stooped, with a soft voice
but strong hands, “Doc” is better known to the outside world as P. W. White. His official title is “trainer
of the Wildcats.” Mr. White helps keep the Davidson teams percolating in good order. It is up to him to
tape ankles, work on minor cuts, bruises, and sores, and to have towels on hand for the team when they
come out after the game and practice.

But all this is only a small part of his many duties. “Doc” is the man who must see that
the tennis courts are kept well rolled and in good condition, as well as taking care of the gymnasium. He
has been a Davidson man all his life. Born in this town, his family moved to Cornelius where he was
raised. He began his duties with the college during the fall of '33. “While I couldn’t call all the players
by name, I knew their faces,” he said. “Today I can tell who each man is when he comes to
the lockers with the team.”

“Doc” says that the name Johnson seems to be the most common among the Wildcat football squad and they're all
mighty good football players. He remembers “Big Six” Johnson and Dick Johnson from the early squads, and this year’s squad
has Bob Johnson as well as Bill Johnson.

ERNEST ELLISON, Inc.
FIRE, CASUALTY, and MARINE INSURANCE
113-115 E. Fourth St.—Charlotte, N. C.
Robt. E. Ellison

Soda Fountain
PROMPT AND EFFICIENT SERVICE
WHITE DRUG CO.
Davidson, N.C.

Low prices on mailing envelopes
ROLLS DEVELOPED
Any size roll of Kodak film developed, 8 prints for only 25 cents (coin).
Jack Rabbit Co.
SPARTANBURG, S. C.

Phi Society Holds First Meeting Sunday Night

Dr. H. M. Moffett Has Social Hour Honoring Future Religious Workers

Thirty men attended the social hour held at the home of Dr. H. M. Moffett Sunday night after vespers by
the Life Service Fellowship for incoming men. The fellowship, which includes candidates for the ministry or mission field as well
as lay workers in its membership, thus initiated its program for the year. After Dr. Moffett’s words of welcome as
host to the group, Wade Boggs, Secretary of the Y. M. C. A., spoke informally on the opportunities for service
on campus. Dave Woodward followed with an outline of last year’s activities, and Ivan Wetmore concluded with some remarks that
led to an open discussion. Refreshments were served while the men chatted about plans for this year.

Last year, the Student Volunteers emphasized foreign missions on the campus. The membership of forty had many interesting meetings in
faculty homes, invited several outside speakers to address the group, and presented movies on missions to the campus.

Phi Delta Theta and your officers, Pres. Bill Marquess; V.-Pres. Jim Morrison; Treas. Ovid Bell; Sec. Charlie Mashburn, should set
the style in ties for fall.

College Men Should and Will Wear the BEAU BRUMMEL and BOTANY WORSTED TIES
Stripes
Neat Plaids
Neat Figures
Colors ...
Maroons
Greys
Greens
Browns
Fabrics ...
Botany Worsteds
Non-Crush Satins
Priestly Leather
Homespuns
Woven All Silks

For Your Entire Wardrobe Visit
Marion Davis
205 S. TRYON STREET
Charlotte, N. C.

Thursday and Friday—Oct. 13 and 14—
Marie Antoinette (Show runs two and one-half hours)
Saturday—October 15—
Garden of the Moon
Monday and Tuesday—October 17-18—
Vacation From Love
Wednesday—October 19—
Four Is A Crowd

DAVIDSON THEATRE
Davidson, N. C.
