Page Six THE DAVIDSONIAN Wednesday, November 30, 1938

Diehl Succeeds Tinga As Electrical Expert

Finds Duties of Campus Electrician Both Varied And Difficult

Inheriting the job which John Tinga had last year, Bill Diehl has been attending to the duties of the campus
electrician this fall. The lighting system of the college is a thing not usually thought of by the students until
a fuse blows and the whole dormitory’s lights are extinguished; then from all sides can be heard the cry of
“Lights, lights!” And then is when Bill rushes to the scene of action and endeavors to get the system working
again.

One of Bill's regular duties is to turn on the hall and shower room lights of East, West, and Watts
each afternoon. He is spared this trouble in the rest of the dormitories, since some of the rooms are on
the same connection with the halls there, and as a result all the lights are left on at all times.
Each Saturday he visits the lights in the dormitories, replacing those which are burned out.

Benny Goodman seems to be the favorite radio program of college students, according to Bill, because from nine-thirty to ten
o'clock on Tuesday night, when his orchestra makes its weekly appearance, is the time when most of the fuses on
the campus blow out. Other times when many fuses are blown, of course, are during review and examination periods while
the majority of the students are burning the midnight oil.

In former times the entire lighting system of the campus used to be turned off for good around eleven o'clock,
but now the lights in the halls are left on at all hours of the night for the convenience of
the dormitory occupants. And no matter what hour of the night it is, the chances are that in some room
of some dormitory the lights will still be on while the roomer is brushing up for his next day review.

VESPER SERVICE LED BY Goodman

[Continued from Page One]

sins, by bearing them on the cross. An exchange between Christ and the sinner took place over 1900 years ago
on Golgotha. As an illustration of what God said about the operation of miracles, Woodbridge stated the two supreme agents
for this: Through Christ (through the Holy Spirit) or through the Word of God. The Holy Spirit, through the Son
of God, exalts the word of God, and reaches down to man.

In concluding, Reverend Woodbridge gave an illustration of a man finding God through daily Bible-reading and then praying to God
for proof of His existence. The minister remarked “God's Holy Spirit covers the entire world. Where spirit is, where the
word is: miracle takes place!”

AND PHIGAMS

[Continued from Page One]

requests for numbers might be played before this week is up. All students are urged to take full advantage of
the accessibility to these records. The collection of records which was awarded only after many and persistent requests by Dr.
Lingle, will be added to from time to time through a fund to be set aside for buying new records.
Even now a new cabinet is being built to hold these additional records.

NEW MAGAZINE

[Continued from Page One]

so numerous as in the Homecoming issue, but that these would be original and examples of Davidson humor.

STATE THEATRE
Mooresville, N. C.

Wed., “THE STORM” with Charles Bickford and Barton MacLane

Stage Show “Shaver’s DeLuxe Entertainment”

Thurs.-Fri., Dec. 1-2 Edward G. Robinson in “I AM THE LAW”

Sat., Dec. 3rd “THE M. P. HENDERSON MESQUITEERS”

DAVIDSON, N. C.

TO GET CARS FOR RENT

Wednesday, November 30 “SPRING MADNESS”

Thurs.-Fri., Dec. 1-2 “LUCKY STAR”

Saturday, December 3 “ILLEGAL TRAFFIC” “LONE RANGER No. 8”

Monday, December 5 “SHINING HOUR”

DAVIDSON THEATRE
Davidson, N. C.

WEEKLY SCHEDULE

Wednesday, Nov. 30.
5:00 P. M.—Glee Club rehearsal.
Scabbard and Blade meeting.
7:15 P. M.—Journalism Class;
7:15 P. M.—Photographic Club.
8:00 P. M.—Alpha Psi Omega and Red and Black Masquers.
9:00 P. M.—Y. M. C. A. Cabinet.

Thursday, December 1st.
7:15 P. M.—Social fraternities.
9:00 P. M.—Beaver Club.
10:30 P. M.—Student Prayer Meeting.

Friday, December 2nd.
5:00 P. M.—Glee Club Rehearsal.
7:00 P. M.—Pi Gamma Mu.
8:00 P. M.—Alpha Epsilon Delta.

Sunday, December 4th.
10:15 A. M.—Sunday School.
11:15 A. M.—Church.
6:30 P. M.—Vespers.

Monday, December 5th.
5:00 P. M.—Glee Club Rehearsal.
7:00 P. M.—"D" Club meeting.
8:00 P. M.—Delta Phi Alpha.

Tuesday, December 6th.
7:00 P. M.—Philanthropic and Eumanean Societies.
9:00 P. M.—Sigma Upsilon.
10:30 P. M.—Student Prayer Meeting.

WILDCATS LOSE

[Continued from Page Four]

covered a fumble. But soon they were right back knocking at touchdown’s door. Finally George Wirtz, Deac Captain, plunged over
for the final score from the 2. Bill Davis sparked all of Davidson's offensive power, while Bill Johnston, aided by
Horace McCall,Luke Graham played an outstanding line game on the field.

MASQUERS BID
[Continued from Page One]
Following the initiation, plans for the presentation of a play early in February will be discussed. Dramas under consideration include
“Let Us Be Gay” and “Smiling Through.” This discussion will deal with the choice of one of the two plays
and the general plans for the production. The exact date for the presentation will be announced later. Ed Morrow, president
of the group, will preside over the initiation and discussion.

YOU CAN Upsilon.
| Copyright 1938, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.

Court Of Control
The regular bi-weekly meeting of The Court of Control was held Tuesday evening at 10:00 P.M. in Phi Hall. The
following freshmen were campused for a period of two weeks: Hewitt Rose, John Strandwitz, Charles Webb, Getty Herring, and Wilson
Coker. Norman Arseth and John Inskeep were campused for a period of four weeks. All these freshmen were campused for
failing to wear their freshman caps.

DAVIDSONIAN IS GENERATOR
[Continued from Page Six]
The papers are then ready for mailing. In all, eleven hundred copies of the Davidsonian are printed each week. Of
these, seven hundred are distributed throughout the college and town. Four hundred are mailed to parents, alumni, and friends of
the college all over the United States. Three copies are mailed outside the country, to Brazil, Cuba, and South Africa.
This includes only a few of the worries, headaches, and jangled nerves of the business staff. When they collect for
the advertisements and begin to try to make both ends meet, then their worries really begin. The one thing that
inspires the freshmen, sophomores, and juniors to work with all their might is the thought that some day they may
gain the coveted post of business manager.

TASKS PERFORMED BY FEMININE
[Continued on Page Five]
One of the newest additions to the bureaucracy is Mrs. Sarah D. Johnston, the college nurse and supervisor of the
infirmary. Mrs. Johnston was originally from Cornelius but has lived in Davidson since her marriage a few years ago. She
graduated from Long Sanatorium in 1927 and has had special laboratory training.

HI-Y TO SEND ELEVEN
[Continued from Page Three]
The university entitled, “Living Thrillingly in an Age of Confusion.” Other notables to speak are: Dr. Alan K. Manchester, Dean
of Freshmen at Duke, Dr. Clyde Milner, president of Guilford College, Dr. George Irving, who is on the Board of
Christian Education of the Presbyterian Church of USA in Philadelphia, Pa., Dr. Ben R. Lacy, Jr., president of the Union
Theological Seminary at Richmond, Va.

NUMERALS
[Continued from Page Four]
Ten men made their numerals in cross-country for this fall. They are as follows: Dick Coppedge, Ed Garrou, Jimmy Mann,
Stacy Smith, John Talmadge, Bob Washburn, Charlie Watt, Charlie Webb, Joel Whitten, and Cameron Wilson.

INFIRMARY HAS
[Continued from Page Five]
Nature such as bruises, sprains, stomach aches, colds, etc. Of course, the football teams kept quite a number of boys
running to and from the infirmary with sprains and an occasional broken bone of minor concern. The students who weren't
up to par at the first physical examination have received treatment and will be given re-examinations. The most serious illness
has been an attack of appendicitis. The subject was operated on successfully and is now recovering rapidly. There are an
average of twenty sick calls daily; though upon one occasion there was a total of forty calls.

SCHOOL SUPPLIES
CANDY
ELECTRIC EQUIPMENT
HARDWARE
SOUTHERN 5 & 10c STORE
DAVIDSON, N. C.

THEOLOGIST
[Continued from Page One]
In Jerusalem, and its main purpose was Biblical Archaeology. He also named several other men who are now prominent at
that institution: Dr. Fredrick Bliss, Dr. Fisher, Dr. Nelson Glick. Dr. Burroughs then proceeded to explain the process of archaeology,
which he defined as “that branch of history which studies ancient life by observing the things that the people used.”
There are three main points to archaeological research. First, the stratigraphic method of digging must be used in order to
prevent the loss or injury to the property and materials that are being unearthed. Second, there must be a careful
observation and cataloging of every object taken out of the excavating materials. Third, these articles that have been discovered must
be interpreted and compared with other findings. It was shown that very often the different selections of arts discovered are
not very beautiful in the aesthetic sense; however, they are invaluable in the archaeological research. Through different branches of art,
the ideas of the people and the modes of life of the nations can be deciphered. Even the smallest section
of pottery bearing the smallest inscription or picture is treasured by the archaeologist, for it may hide some very important
matter. Then some slides were shown comparing the people of Palestine today with those of yesterday, and in this was
shown the remarkable likeness of certain sections of that country today with certain sections in Biblical times. The lecture was
closed by Dr. Burroughs saying that he hopes the world will remain settled and peaceful in order that further study
may be carried out in this field of work and in all others.

ESCAPE: Use specialized medication for nose and upper throat where most colds start. Helps Prevent Colds Developing - Don't wait
until a miserable cold develops. At the very first warning sneeze, sniffle, or nasal irritation—put a few drops of Vicks
Va-tro-nol up each nostril immediately. Used in time, Va-tro-nol helps to prevent the development of many colds. For 24 Years
Vicks Advertising has been passed upon by a Board of Physicians.

MISERY OF COLDS
Clears Stuffy Head, Too - Even when your head is all clogged up from a neglected cold, Va-tro-nol brings comforting
relief. It quickly clears away the clogging mucus, reduces swollen membranes, helps to keep the sinuses from being blocked. FEEL
its tingling medication go to work as you breathe again.

VA-TRO-NOL
Used in more homes than any other medication of its kind.

FOR “HER”
X-mas Gift Headquarters
College Pharmacy

Together they make the United States admired and respected the whole world over. And for the things you want in
a cigarette you can depend on the happy combination of mild ripe tobaccos in Chesterfield. Each type of Chesterfield tobacco
is outstanding for some fine quality that makes smoking more pleasurable. Combined...blended together the Chesterfield way...they give you more pleasure
than any cigarette you ever smoked. On land and sea and in the air...wherever smoking is enjoyed...Chesterfield’s mildness and better
taste satisfy millions.

Chesterfield...the blend that can’t be copied...the RIGHT COMBINATION of the world’s best cigarette tobaccos.
