WEDNESDAY, MARCH 9, 1938 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Three

The Week

With the whole campus in a whirl over the student body elections, a good many people begin to wonder if that called (be- cause we don't know what else to call it) really is politics. The farther elections go, the more those same people become convinced that politics is neither known nor used on the Davidson campus. A great many schools, principally the larger universities, make no bones about their various political factions and machines. In fact, the students really enjoy the “game” and all it brings with it, such as soap-box speeches, yellow sheets, five-cent stogies, and other things which usually make up the satellites of a good hot political campaign. Therefore, knowing that a large percentage of the student body are interested in such affairs (aren't we all?), this week we asked the question, “Do you favor a system of open and organized politics on our campus?” Most of the ones we asked said “no,” but some of the bystanders thought otherwise. Here are the answers:

Monroe Whekasos: “I am in favor of a system of open politics to the extent...”

Question Williamson

Davidsonian Originator Speaker To S. S. Group

Professor Uses “Social Gospel” as Theme For Address Last Sunday

“The Social Gospel” was the subject of an address given by Dr. Rene Williamson to the student Sunday School class last Sunday morning. His talk was an indictment of any “hands off” policy of the Christian church towards political, social, and economic problems. “Seek ye first the kingdom of heaven,” said Dr. Williamson, but also, “Thy will be done on earth.” Dr. Williamson first pictured the state of Christianity which does not concern itself with the world about and gave as examples the practical destruction of the Russian church in Czarist Russia, which overlooked the wretched conditions of the peasants, and the present subjection of German Christian churches to the definitely unchristian Nazism which they could and should have fought, and probably defeated, a few years ago.

Non-Christian Trends

Lex Kluttz, shown above on the right, with Bob Booth, making Y. M. C. A. plans, is one of the three Davidson men responsible for The Davidsonian. The president of the Athletic Association and a member of O.D.K. Charlotte “Y.”—(Courtesy of the Charlotte Observer)

Next, Dr. Williamson pointed out a number of non-Christian trends in the United States which it was the duty of the church to oppose, among which he said were “100 per cent Americanism” and nationalism, the attitude of many employers, typified by Henry Ford, of using gangsters to beat up labor organizers, the violence complex of the C.I.O., the trend in many universities away from religion toward “science.”

Dr. Williamson then drew illustrations from the life and teachings of Christ. Jesus, he said, was aware of social problems, and his heart was moved by compassion. He was not a rugged individualist and did something about social conditions. He helped the poor and weak without being shocked and censorious. He drove the money changers from the temple. He continually preached against the politicians and clergy of that day for their narrowness.

Must Adopt Social Gospel

Said Dr. Williamson in conclusion that if the Christian church does not “go and do likewise” and adopt a social gospel, it is but “sounding brass,” and if a church fails to do its duty just for fear of antagonizing a few of its members, it is but mimicking the politicians who maintain the party organization.

Next Sunday Professor Beaty will address the class.

Qualifications For NYA Work Are Stiffened

Money Available For Only 100 Jobs; Maximum Amount $20 Per Month

The N.Y.A. work this year has been cut down considerably and the qualifications for securing work have been stiffened a great deal, according to Professor Fleagle, a member of the committee. At the beginning of the year, approximately 130 boys applied to the committee for jobs for the year. The committee has only about 100 jobs to give out, and the maximum amount that any student can earn is $20 per month.

Work Is Varied

The work of the N.Y.A. boys has a wide variety, and many kinds of work are performed. The principal jobs are library assistants, laboratory assistants, athletics, and directing intramural sports. The work is as small as...

Humor Magazine Makes Spring Appearance Soon

Ryburn’s “Femmes Issue” to Be Filled With Stories, Satire, and Cartoons

The Davidson students went on a trip to various states and foreign countries. The sophomore, ECO & Hayseed” Thomas, said, “I am not in favor of a system of politics that encourages the creation of actual political machines such as are found on the campuses of larger universities.”

Charles Mashburn, Sophomore: “In a large student body where it is impossible to know everybody, a system of open politics might be justified; but in a small student body like Davidson where nearly everyone is familiar with the other man’s ability to some extent, at least, I don't favor such a system.”

Bill Stephens, Sophomore: “No, I don't favor such a system because I don't think it's in accord with the spirit of Davidson, and I believe it would create a feeling of...”

The Davidson College Glee Club returned to the campus this afternoon after concluding its annual spring concert tour of eastern North Carolina in Wadesboro last night.The singers let Davidson into a rivalry between the various factions on the campus. The organization gave their first program in Wilmington at the Presbyterian Church Sunday evening. The glee club and the quartet rendered several selections during the course of the regular evening worship service. Professor Fleagle and Dr. Vowles have done fine work.

Stitt Robinson, Junior: "No, I think that a man should be selected for his ability rather than because of the political party that he represents. Under a system of open politics, the best men are often overlooked in the glamor and heat of political campaigns."

Tom Brown: "Yes, I favor a system of recognized politics, because I believe that under such a system, officers would be elected because of their leadership and ability rather than because of their popularity. An undercurrent of politics does, undoubtedly, exist on our campus and I believe the recognition of this fact would make for a healthier system."

Plumbing and Heating
R. W. DUNCAN
Phone Day 180 — Night 2028
Mooresville, N. C.

Where Camera Enthusiasts Gather
HOLLY SMITH CAMERAS
And Photographic Supplies
106 S. Church—Phone 3-4362
Just A Step Off Trade Street

...Candies...
...Stationery...
...Merchandise...
SOUTHERN 5c & 10c Store

WHEN IN MOORESVILLE
—SHOP AT—
KENNERLY’S GROCERY STORE
HIGH QUALITY
LOW PRICES

BROADWAY
“Trapped By G-Men”
JACK HOLT 25¢

De Roxlos Are Feted At Meeting of Spanish Club
Volunteers Aid Natives of Spain

Mr. and Mrs. de Roxlo, natives of Barcelona, Spain, were honor guests last Friday night at a party given by Sigma Delta Pi, honorary Spanish fraternity, and the Spanish Club, its associate organization, at the home of Dr. and Mrs. A. Goldiere on Lorimer Road. In the absence of Tony Shelby, Sigma Delta Pi president, Pete Mc- led the meeting. Each member answered with a Spanish proverb. Mr. and Mrs. de Roxlo were introduced by Dr. Goldiere. Mr. de Roxlo spoke about his native city, Barcelona, and the different dialects, pointing out that there were three distinct languages spoken in the peninsula of Spain—Castilian (the real Spanish), Catalan, and Vascongad.

Speaks of Music
Since Mr. de Roxlo is director of the Charlotte Symphony Orchestra, he chose as his subject the music of Spain. He stated that while America boasts a vast amount of “folklore” in our music, such as that of the negro, we really have no music that we can rightly call our own. Then, he proceeded to describe the phases of music which belong to Spain alone. After their talks, Mr. and Mrs. de Roxlo answered any questions that the audience wished to ask. During the informal conversation which followed the guests’ talks, Mrs. Goldiere and Mrs. F. K. Fleagle served delightful refreshments consisting of sandwiches, cookies, and cocoa.

The honored guests, Mr. and Mrs. de Roxlo, have been in Charlotte for five years. Mr. de Roxlo came because of local connections. This is the first American city in which they have lived, having moved to the Queen City from Havana, Cuba.

Library Receives New Volumes
A large spring order of new books was received at the college library last week, and the volumes have been put at the disposal of students. The local chapter of Alpha Epsilon Delta, pre-medical fraternity, voted unanimously on Monday to send a representative from the Davidson chapter to the national convention in North Carolina. It was felt that a representative was needed in order to keep up with the latest news from the fraternity and participate in its affairs. The chapter also voted to extend bids to four rising seniors, and these were sent out yesterday.

New books include:
- "Southern Literature," Helen Gardner
- "The Woman in White," W. Collins
- "The Complete Sherlock Holmes," A. Conan Doyle
- "Root," by M. F. Colum
- "Ascent," by Tobias Dantzig
- "An Economic History of Modern Britain," J. H. Clapham
- "The Missions and Message of Jesus," H. D. A. Major
- "Transition," by J. O. Jones, Inc.
- "Strange New Gospels," I. G. Goodspeed

Other notable books include works by Radhakrishnan, George A. Coe, Alfred Loisy, James H. Leuba, and Edwin Starbuck.

Playing Through Saturday
"SWING YOUR LADY"
With WEAVER BROS. and ELVIRY

The One and Only Extreme Drape
Single & Double Breast
Trousers in GREENS, TOBACCO BROWNS, STEEL GRAYS
They Are the New Things For College Men
Priced at $27.50, $30.50, $32.50
J. O. JONES, Inc.

Selanich International presents
TOM SAWYER
In Technicolor DeLuxe
Ice Cream
Mooresville, N. C.
Balcony Next Week 25¢
Phone 56 Anytime