Page Two
THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY, OCT. 19, 1938

The Davidsonian
Founded By the Class of 1915

1938 Member 1939
Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON AVE, New York, N. Y.
CHICAGO * BOSTON * LOS ANGELES * SAN FRANCISCO

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879.

Editor-in-Chief
Business Manager
Assistant Editor
Managing Editor
Managing Editor
Managing Editor
Managing Editor
Managing Editor
Sports Editor
Associate Editor
Associate Editor
Associate Editor
Associate Editor
Movie Editor
Photographer

BUSINESS STAFF
Asst. Business Manager
Advertising Manager
Advertising Manager
Circulation Manager
Collection Manager

“Hello Year”...

Every year students at State College observe what they call “Hello Week.” This is a program sponsored by the student body, designed to promote friendliness and spirit. We at Davidson pride ourselves upon the fact that we observe such a week the year ‘round. We like to think that we know everyone on the campus and speak to all we meet. We attribute much of our famous Wildcat spirit to that fact. We like to think that this friendliness is natural and unaffected, but most of us know that in many cases it is not. There are a few Davidson men, here more than one year, who have not yet imbibed this spirit. Perhaps that is our fault. Perhaps we haven’t shown them by our example the value of such a spirit. We can do this by speaking to everyone with a real warmth in our tones, not in a bored or stilted manner. Let’s go the State boys one better by observing “Hello Week” the year ‘round. Let’s make this “Hello Year.”

Do They Remember?...

Did the recent dismemberment of Czechoslovakia and the latest Four Power Pact avert war, or just postpone it for a little while longer? This is a question which is foremost in the mind of every citizen of the world. Shall we be again subjected to the catastrophe of 20 years ago, or do the powers finally realize the utter uselessness of war?

Last week everyone eagerly awaited the verdict of the “Big Four,” Hitler, Mussolini, Chamberlain, and Daladier, who had met to decide the fate of Europe. It seems as though they have decided that peace is better than war, as Germany’s belligerent attitude has been somewhat lessened since that time. This is undoubtedly the first sane move which Hitler has made since he has assumed the role of dictator of the Third Reich. He apparently has been brought to realize that war at this time will prove more fatal to the German nation than he had estimated. With so many of the world powers opposed to his tactics, the fate of the German people would be far worse than it was two decades ago.

The United States, at least, fully realizes the utter uselessness of war. It is doing everything in its power to avert a catastrophe similar to that which engulfed the world 20 years ago. Whether it will succeed in its efforts remains to be seen, but it can be assured that no formal declaration will be issued. The memory of the 250,000 young men who laid down their lives is fresh in the minds of the American people. Let us hope that Hitler, Mussolini, and their ilk have not been so blinded by their quest for glory that they have forgotten the price paid for power.

He who tells me of my faults is my teacher; he who tells me of my virtues does me harm.

Home Games?...

Have you too felt a slight resentment rising within you when you have thought of those home football games that are not home games, that are played in Charlotte or on some fairground in South Carolina? Personally, I have experienced just that feeling because it seems that we are being cheated when such a campus activity is removed from the campus. But there are other reasons, felt by the majority of the students, for this resentment. A big football game on the campus is degraded until it is on a level with the ancient Roman gladiatorial carnivals when it is carried to a neighboring, but still foreign, city. Lacking there is the spirit of good sportsmanship and school “patriotism,” and in their places are planted the seeds of a spirit of greater showmanship.

As in the case of all student affairs, there is also present the question of finance which continually hovers over all of us. These off-the-campus “home games” have tagged on them an additional admission charge which comes over and above the campus tax for athletics, and there is always the added cost of transportation, unless one is accustomed to travel “by rule of thumb,” and the cost of meals eaten away from the boarding-houses. In this matter, the College has apparently betrayed its students because it has not endeavored to provide them with athletic contests which they faithfully support and which they may conveniently attend in their own Richardson Field.

However, the blame surely does not rest wholly upon the College. It seems to me that the greater part of it justly goes to the so-called “sports promoters” of the nearby cities. In the last few years they have been able, in some shady ways, to bring pressure upon the authorities of every college with the threat of holding games in their metropolitan stadia in a way and at a time that would draw crowds away from the collegiate arenas. And it can hardly be denied that this would be a death-blow to all athletic activities on the campus, for the revenue from football quite generally supports other inter-collegiate teams and the entire intra-mural programs.

Since I may have attempted to tear down the existing system, you may quite reasonably ask what I think should be done in the future—in the future advisedly, for there is nothing that can be done about it this year. Cooperation, where possible, should replace condemnation of the authorities, and quite probably there will be found a means to combat the threats of city sports promoters and return the home games to the place where they really belong—on Richardson Field.

There’s a wide difference between investments that sound good and sound investments.

When a woman is lost in happy thoughts she can usually be found in front of the mirror.

Self-pity in the most prettily varnished heads seems to have the worst inside fittings.

Simplicity, truth, and persistency are three factors that build success in advertising.

Campus Comments

There seems to be some misunderstanding among members of the Student Body concerning the Court of Control. I would like to take this opportunity to express my personal views concerning its scope and relation to the Student Body.

The duty of the Court is primarily to enforce freshman regulations. They have been carefully considered and are of such nature that freshmen should follow them to the letter. None of the regulations impose any undue hardship or are in any way degrading. The Court also desires to be of service to members of the freshman class in any way possible. This latter aspect is one which I would like to emphasize in order that it might prove of greater value.

The Court of Control is an agency created to carry out the will of the Student Body. It derives its power to act and the authority to back its actions from the student opinion of the three upper classes. With the support and cooperation of the Student Body, the Court of Control will function to the best possible advantage both for freshmen and upperclassmen.

JULIAN SQUIRES,
Judge of the Court of Control.

P.S.—I request Fred Stair, President of the Student Body, to write the next Campus Comments.

CAMPUS IN CARTOON

SUPER SNOOPINGS
ALEX FIDLER, COE COLLEGE TRAINER, REFEREED 5000

Letters To The Editor

INTERCOLLEGIATE FOOTBALL

Dear Bill:

Forty or fifty years ago there occurred a crisis in the college athletic world that occupied the attention of all college men. That problem was the problem of professionalism in intercollegiate sports. Baseball was the national sport, and the major athletic event. Colleges tried to build bigger and better teams. Some went so far as to give special concessions to good and worthy students who knew how to play baseball on the side. The upshot of the situation was a condition mildly like the football question that faces us today. The public interest in baseball was shifted from the colleges to the professional ball-parks; and even today, we see the same thing in the rapid growth of professional football. As conditions now stand, it will be a fine thing when the shift has completed, and college sports have been turned back to the people they are designed for, the students.

This growing professionalism is popping up all about Davidson. Wake Forest, generally considered to be our physical although not our mental equal, has gone into the big time business of importing students adept in football. State, Carolina, and Duke have been at the sportsman-like procedure for several years. As I see it, Davidson has just three roads to take. We can throw all our previous idealistic talk about our athletic system away and go professional, thus proving that Davidson’s talk about its ethics was bunk, and “sour grapes.” That is, we can put ourselves on a par with Wake and State, and the others.

Another alternative is our present situation. The main virtue of this is that we put our men in against professionals. Our men then put up a good fight, gain a moral victory, gain a broken nose or two, a few honorable internal injuries, and various other marks of honor which they can carry to their graves if they don’t get carried there immediately. The objection to this system, on the other hand, is that Davidson has no business subjecting its amateurs who play for sport, to the brutality of a bunch of professionals. Enough said, this systemcan speak for itself. Finally, and impracticably from the standpoint of finances and alumni, we could do the wise thing and get out of professional class football—pardon me—intercollegiate football—entirely. Did I say that was impracticable from the standpoint of finances and alumni? That pair of objections is only second to the real objection, sentimentalism. We don’t seem to be able to look at the question without thinking of all the ballyhoo that goes on at a game. We get choked with emotion when we think of doing away with such a time-honored institution as intercollegiate football; and at the same time we fail to realize that we could abolish the wrongs of modern football at the same time. There is one solution that I have not included because the college has refused to look that way. Davidson could limit itself to competition with schools who reserve football for students and not for professionals. The objection to this seems to be that such a move would lower Davidson's position in the field of education. In favor of it, I might point out that any other plan, with the exception of abolishment of football, would lower Davidson’s position in the less worldly field of sportsmanship. Davidson can do but one thing if the college refuses to play against amateur teams, and that is to remove the cause of the trouble entirely, intercollegiate football. The coaches could then devote their time to the majority of the students to whom it really belongs. All students could indulge in athletics, and share in their benefits. Under such a system, college athletics would be fulfilling their function, the building of men, not money. —Q.E.D.

RACE QUESTION

Dear Bill:

In an editorial last week Erle Austin objected to the fact that a Negro was being made a permanent member of the college band. I am inclined to agree with him, but not for the reasons he named: “Knowing the desire of conservatism that is held by a majority of our student body...” Perhaps it was conservatism 80-odd years ago, but now we are almost in the middle of another century. The Negroes are no longer slaves; they are American citizens. Of course, I can’t blame anyone for having such an attitude if the only kind of Negro he knows is of the type under consideration, but we call this an Age of Progress, an Era of Learning, so let's get wise to ourselves. To get to the point, I would like to have one good reason for the attitude we have toward these people. I once heard a person say that they are “absolutely worthless.” I violently disagree with that person and think that anyone who keeps his eyes and ears open will be forced to do the same. Just think of the wonderful contributions they have made in the spirituals, which are loved by all who have a taste for beautiful music. Think of Dr. Carver at Tuskegee; he has developed a number of valuable uses for the peanut shell. Yes, 75 years ago the attitude could be termed conservatism, but today it is, very mildly, narrow-mindedness. —JOE GAMMON.

Your Film Report Card
By CHARLIE LUTHER

Wednesday, Oct. 19
“FOUR IS A CROWD” Errol Flynn, Olivia de Havilland, Rosalind Russell, Patric Knowles.

Thurs.-Fri. Oct. 20-21
“HOLD THAT CO-ED” John Barrymore, George Murphy, Marjorie Weaver, and Jack Haley.

Saturday—Oct. 22
“SONS OF THE LEGION” Lynne Overman, Evelyn Keyes, and Billy Lee.

Girls, beautiful girls, pouring onto the campus from far and near! Some of them coming to Davidson dances for the first time and a little jittery wondering if they will go over well; others developing into full-fledged prom trotters after several trips, and keeping the male attentions with a line any freshman should be able to see through; and lastly, those who still have the urge to go collegiate but give out very little information concerning the number of years they have been going to college functions. Be they “Campus Widows” or “true to one” they add a pleasure to college life that nothing else can replace. Yes, I'm really all for the sweet young ladies.

And speaking of dances, let’s everybody support the Pan-Hellenic Council this weekend. The profits on this first set furnish the money needed to pay pre-dance expenses of future sets. The way we turn out for this set will have a direct bearing on the bands the Council will be able to secure for later. I know we all want the best possible; real support now will greatly improve the later dances.

It is evident that the “Powers that Be” failed to read my suggestion about the ventilation at Vespers. Here’s hoping that this column has improved enough to secure the attention of those in authority, because the chapel was really uncomfortable Sunday night. I repeat, “It is a pity to detract from the beauty of the vesper services by putting the students in a less receptive mood for the sermon when this can be corrected by merely airing out the chapel well before church time.”

Prize scholastic achievement of the week is accredited to Hayseed Thomas who wrote a perfect definition for the word “option” placed before a question on a Polit review. Hayseed redeemed himself somewhat Saturday, however, by “going down the line” with Benny Harrison.

Other Gleanings
Ad Long trying to improve on nature’s handiwork as exhibited in the shape of Mark Lillard, while Lillard was more on the destructive side in relation to Long—Bill Davis playing the role of “friend of the family” around McClellan and young lady friend but we wonder—Bill Turner making it two weekends in a row—Charlie Smith vowing love for three young ladies of Columbia in one evening while still remembering “Baby Powder Beauty” and cookies dropped by the wayside.

In the Groove
By TOM PERRIN

I'LL BET... Rumor has reached our ears of a rather preposterous little wager made by a couple of undergrads here. “A” as the Political Science department would automatically dub him, approached the next man in the alphabet (B) with what was obviously a very generous proposition. A was of the opinion that the sum of all points that Davidson ran up against opponents this fall would exceed the product of all her opponents’ scores against her, multiplied together. In other words, as A pointed out, his number of points in the Citadel and State games would amount to 12 plus 7, while B's scores in those games would be 6 times 19—so on through the season. B, who knows a good thing when he sees it, or who thought he did, snapped up the offer, giving nice odds. B wasn’t feeling so well at last reports, though. He had just remembered he had to multiply that score of zero that Erskine chalked up.

PROGRESS... Just out of curiosity we looked up the “Davidsonian” of ten years ago this week. The idea wasn’t much of a success from the columnist’s point of view. The news hasn't changed much in ten years, on the whole—there is just less attention paid to alumni today. The big issue of the moment was the Al Smith-Herb Hoover presidential race, with local sentiment largely on the Brown Derby side, judging from the jokes. Another item was something about electricity being left on all night instead of going off at twelve, courtesy of the college. Time and Davidson do march on.

SONGS... Without posing as a savant in the field of popular music, we find ourselves burdened with a couple of opinions that ought to be disposed of. First, we will stick our prophetic neck out and say that “All Ashore,” a simple and smooth melody by Billy Hill who also did “Lights Out,” “The Old Spinning Wheel,” and others, will reach the top in a month or two. Second, we will guess that “I Found My Yellow Basket,” sequel to guess what, won't make the smash its original did.

ANNUAL... The “Quips and Cranks” photographer has started in again, and that reminds us of something. We think we remember the ROTC boys paying something like a quarter apiece last year to have some kind of military sponsors’ pictures in the annual. We are almost sure we paid ours, but nowhere in our yearbook can we find what we supposedly were paying for. There’s probably a simple explanation, but we are mildly curious still, and we know others who feel the same way.

FORD... Probably you too, have wondered whether the service of the local Post Office couldn’t be improved—as on the day your roommate gets all the mail. But we have a new respect for the staff now. Confronted with a card addressed to “BeeVoo, Davidson, N. C.,” they turned it promptly over to the proper individual, one Beverly Royster.

Gwynn, Pfohl Attend Meet

Dr. Dye, 12), professor of education at Davidson College, and Professor Gwynn, attended the meeting of the Committee of Conference in collaboration with the State Department of Education in Chapel Hill on Tuesday, Oct. 11. One important step taken by the committee was to recommend that by 1940 all principals in the public high schools throughout the State of North Carolina be required to have a Master of Arts degree. The committee was entertained at lunch by the State Supervisor of Public Instruction, Clyde A. Erwin. Professor Pfohl also presented some suggestions in regards to the musical organizations in public schools.

WEEKLY TIME TABLE

Wednesday—Oct. 21
5:00 P.M. Glee Club rehearsal.
7:00 Scabbard and Blade meeting.
8:00 Alpha Psi Omega meeting.
9:00 Y.M.C.A. Cabinet meeting.

Thursday—Oct. 22
4:30 P.M. Symphonic Band rehearsal.
7:15 Social Fraternities meet.

Friday—Oct. 23
5:00 P.M. Glee Club rehearsal.
7:15 Pep meeting.
8:00 Alpha Epsilon Delta.
10:00 Fall dance.

Saturday—Oct. 24
3:00 P.M. Davidson-Carolina football game.
9:00 Dance.

Sunday—Oct. 25
10:15 Sunday School.
11:00 Preaching.
6:30 Vespers.

Monday—Oct. 26
5:00 P.M. Glee Club rehearsal.
7:00 “D” Club.
8:00 Delta Phi Alpha.

Tuesday—Oct. 27
7:00 P.M. Philanthropic and Eumenean meetings.
7:30 Symphonic band rehearsal.
8:00 Le Cercle Francais.
9:00 Sigma Upsilon.

SIGMA UPSILON
[Continued from Page One]

Dr. Cumming, Professor Lilly, Professor Davidson, and Professor Erwin. A proposal that members deliver extemporaneous reports on books read during the summer in an effort to share literary experience was debated. In view of the large amount of business discharged at the meeting it was found advisable to postpone any such procedure until the next meeting of the group.