Page Six THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, MARCH 2, 1938

Your Film Report Card
By HENRY B. BAKER

The quality of each picture is determined by the number of stars—more stars mean a better picture.

Wednesday, March 2
(Feat. 1) ★★
“OVER THE GOAL”—June Travis, William Hopper, and Johnnie Davis. A typical football picture that seems a little bit out of season at this time.

(Feat. No. 2) ★★
“SHE LOVED A FIREMAN”—Dick Foran, Ann Sheridan, and Robert Armstrong. This picture is a tribute to all firemen. An example of the heroic deeds of these fellows is shown in a breath-taking fire scene where the main thought is “duty.”

Thursday & Friday, March 3-4
★★★
“HAPPY LANDING”—Sonja Henie, Don Ameche, Cesar Romero, and Jean Hersholt. The story begins with a band leader flying to Paris as a publicity stunt, but he lands in a little Norwegian village due to poor navigation.

★★★
“THE BARONESS AND THE BUTLER”—William Powell, Annabella, and Helen Westley. Once again, Powell plays the part of a butler. With him is the glamorous Annabella, one of the screen’s latest finds, in her first American role. The story is centered on how a butler can care for the boss’ daughter.

AMONG THE GREEKS
(Continued from Page 5)

Sig Eps Enjoy Party With Winthrop Girls
Charlie Sample, Lilly White Sample, and Henry Lyons were the guests of a group of Winthrop girls at a dinner party on Washington’s birthday. Bill Broadway left for Salisbury for the weekend, as Henry Lyons went to Charlotte. Brother John Doty has been joined by the new Mrs. Doty, and they have taken an apartment at the Shelton home. Punk Fitzgerald spent the weekend at his home in Crewe, Va.

BEAVERS HOST
(Continued from Page 3)

The Beaver Club plans to continue such actions during every athletic event held on the campus and on every occasion when visitors come to the campus. Its membership, limited to sophomores, will probably be increased in the near future due to the baseball and track seasons, which will provide more opportunities to act as hosts.

M. C. A. TOURNEY
(Continued from Page 3)

Melvin Means, Teddy Schabel, Ed Maxwell, Hank Wilson, Jack Abels, and M. B. Sherrin. Beall, Miller, Ed G., and others.

WORLD PRAYER
(Continued from Page 1)

Kingdom of God on earth; for everyone who, through study, service, and prayer, is sharing in the work of the world; for a clearer understanding of God's will for the world today.

J. M. RICHARDS
(Continued from Page 1)

In 1932, he became the president of Columbia Theological Seminary in Decatur, Ga. Dr. Richards is now a member of the board of trustees of Davidson College and also a member of the executive committee of this board.

CITADEL TEAM
(Continued from Page 1)

The Citadel shooting team was in top form. The match was shoulder-to-shoulder, with nine men competing on each team. Maj. J. L. Ballard and Maj. C. L. Steele are instructors of the Davidson unit.

CARS FOR RENT
M. P. Henderson
GOOD GULF GAS

When asked about college life “over there,” he answered, “The tradition there is its intellectual tradition and not school spirit as we have it.” Some Davidson men would be interested to know that classes are not compulsory there in proportion to the total population.

Phi Initiation Held Tuesday For New Men
Literary Society Initiates Seventeen Men — Tryouts For Debates Held

A.B. (HAPPY) CHANDLER, GOVERNOR OF KENTUCKY, WORKED HIS WAY THROUGH HIGH SCHOOL, COLLEGE, AND LAW SCHOOL BY SELLING NEWSPAPERS, DOING FARM WORK, OIL FIELD LABOR, COACHING FOOTBALL AND BASKETBALL.

The Philanthropic Literary Society held its regular meeting last Tuesday evening, Feb. 22. Seventeen new men were initiated into the society. President Bill Broadway presided, and immediately after the meeting was called to order, the seventeen men were conducted through the initiation ceremony. The purpose of the organization was explained to the new men, and something of the plans for the remainder of the year was told. Short debate tryouts were then held to select men to represent the Phi's against the Eu's in a debate to be held on March 1. The debate is to be on the subject of a Japanese boycott. Archey Torrey and Hank Wilson were chosen to represent the Phi's, and Rodmond Williams was chosen as alternate. The Phi’s will uphold the negative side of the question. The appearance of the hall was greatly brightened by a set of new curtains which Dr. N. T. Smith, the only member to be taken into the Phi society, presented.

Horine Gives Views On Woman
Jeanette McDonald, a junior at the University of Minnesota, smashed the stereotype by spending her junior year studying at the University of Berlin. Horine contends that some of the world’s greatest people were German.

SNAPSHOT CONTEST OFFERS $40 IN PRIZES
List of Prizes in Davidson-College “Pharmacy”Snap Shot Contest: Eastman Jiffy Kodak 616 Series 11. College Pharmacy. 5 MasterCraft Enlargements, 8x10—B. & H. Photo Fin. Corsage of Smith's Flowers. Pass to Imperial Theater for a month. Biltmore one Cream Cake, made up special, any inscription. Agfa Ansco Box Camera B-2. Two one-year subscriptions to Skript and Pranks. Mention Ansco Snapfolios. Song Title Snapshot Contest Films Ice Honorary 6 Agfa or Photographic Supplies. Agfa Ansco Box Camera A-8. Pass to Davidson Theater for two weeks. Round Copy One Scripts and Pranks. Shave, Shine, Haircut Davidsonian year’s subscription to Norton Barber Shop. Mention: 4 Ansco Snapfolio. Honorary Agfa.

DEBATERS WIN (Continued from Page 1)
Dick Kenyon, Bill Kiesewetter, and Locke White, who compose the third team, will leave the campus on March 22 on the northern trip.

GILLETTE FEATURED (Continued from Page 6)
Hear the flute, oboe, clarinet, bass viola, French horn, cello, and contrabass combined in such a small orchestra.

German Frat Hears Horine
Student Relates Experiences In Germany

Medicated with throat-soothing ingredients of Vicks VapoRub. Vicks Cough Drop. Swing & Sway with Judy Garland!

Delta Phi Alpha, honorary German fraternity, met last Friday night, February 25, at the home of Dr. G. R. Vowles to hear Field Horine, recently returned from Germany, recount his experiences as a student at the University of Bonn during the past year. Horine, a candidate for graduation this spring, told of several amusing incidents illustrating the German system of education compared with the American, showing that there is no exact counterpart of the American. The nearest approach, he said, was the university which the student entered after completing the course at a gymnasium, which corresponds roughly to a senior high school and junior college.

Today Peek
Candies... Stationery... Merchandise...
JUDY GARLAND
Allan Jones
Fannie Brice
Charlotte’s Most Popular!

Heidelberg
Field Horine said that Hitler is giving the German people self-esteem which was lost after the World War. To the question of whether Hitler might try to carry his scheme beyond the bounds of Germany, he said that Hitler has declared “National Socialism is no export ware.” Field thinks that we could use a little of what they have over there—civic pride for instance. He says, “We sadly lack it in America. Look at our farmhouses; then look at theirs. Our trouble is that we have always had too much and don't know what to do with it.”

College Life In Germany
Afraid At First

Field adds, “It's much harder if you take it seriously.” The only examination comes for the final degree. Field, it seems, didn't cut classes as much as he did over here because he was so interested in his work.

When asked about girls in the social life in Germany, he observed that the girls in general do not dress as well in Germany as they do in America and the social events are “lots stiffer.” Girls do not dance every dance as they do here, but they sit around at tables and drink beer and wine. Also, he says, the girls have more individuality than the American girls who are pretty much alike as a type. German dating would probably be strongly to the Davidson gentleman's liking for Horine says, “you pay yours and she pays hers.”

Since he has been in Germany, there has been a business boom, partly due to armaments and public works. Exports and imports have decreased, but there is definitely an internal business boom. The sensationalism of American newspapers often gives the wrong impression, according to Horine. Hitler has taken steps to prevent the domination of Jews because the number of Jewish office holders and professional men were out of all proportion.

M.H. Goodrum Co.
ZENITH RADIOS

Thurs.-Fri—March 3 & 4
“Happy Landing”
Saturday—March 5
“OH SUSANNAH”
Mon.-Tues.—March 7 & 8
“The Baroness and the Butler”
Wednesday—March 9
“Love Is on the Air”

...you’ll find MORE PLEASURE in Chesterfield’s milder better taste

Copyright 1938, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.