X-mas Dances Council Sponsors

Z528 ALENDA UBI ORTA The Davidsonian Lux LIBERTAS

“Y” States Plans For Leper Fund

VOL. XXVI DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 7, 1938 No. 12

“Y” Cabinet To Use No High Pressure In Collecting Fund
Principle of The Spirit of The Gift Will Be Used This Year

TORREY EXPLAINS PLAN
Boxes Will Be Placed To Receive Donations

Archer Torrey stated last Monday in a brief chapel talk that the YMCA Cabinet would not use any high-pressure methods
to obtain the goal for the Christmas Gift fund which is to go to the Biederwolf Leper Colony in Korea
this year. According to Torrey, who was speaking for the “Y” Cabinet, there will be no pledge cards and no
canvassing of dormitories this year, since the Cabinet has decided that no one should make a contribution who feels that
it is being forced upon him. “The gift does not count so much as the spirit with which you give
it,” said Torrey. “The “Y” Cabinet does not want to embarrass anyone about the question of donating money to the
Gift fund.”

Goal of Eight Hundred
Boxes are being placed at strategic points on the campus and any student wishing to donate any amount of money
may drop his contribution into one of these boxes. The goal has been set at eight hundred dollars and they
hope that the new method of handling contributions will be more successful than that of pledge cards and dormitory canvassing.
The Cabinet has made Faith the theme and they are stressing to the student body the point of faith in
giving. The publicity campaign for this project will be carried on in an educational manner. Lectures, chapel talks, feature stories
in the Davidsonian, and illustrated slides will be the main points in the campaign.

Boxes Closed on 15th
The boxes will be closed December 15th and the sum announced the next day. This will be a change since
contributions have been allowed to run over into February in past years. If some boy finds it impossible to make
a contribution before Christmas the Cabinet will accept the gift after Christmas, but the real campaign closes December 15th.

Spanish Frat Meets
Al Bixler presided at the regular meeting of Sigma Delta Pi, honorary Spanish fraternity, which was held last Monday night
in the Quadrangler’s room. The program began with a dialogue between Bill Loftin and Elmer Hulen entitled “La Clase de
Gramatica.” This was followed by another dialogue between Roy Cunningham and Marshall Houston. Their part was named “A La Luz
de La Luna.” Fred Harbin then reviewed a Spanish novel. A motion was made by Prof. Fleagle that since no
member of the Davidson faculty could be present at the modern language meeting in San Francisco, the head of (Continued
on Page Six)

Gamma Sig Frat Gives Open Show
Members of Chemistry Group To Present Interesting Experiments

Gamma Sigma Epsilon, honorary chemistry fraternity, will hold its regular semester open meeting tonight at 8 o'clock in the chemistry
building. This meeting should be of interest not only to those taking chemistry but to others as well. The meeting
will be presided over by President Locke White. The program will consist of a number of interesting and spectacular experiments
performed by some members of the society. The members and their experiments are as follows: Tom Mullen will perform experiments
on air pressure and the explosion of a mixture of hydrogen and chlorine. Bob Doty will show the formation of
solid alcohol and crystals. Beecher Sitterson will prove the solubility of glass. Bill Rainey will show how molten iron can
be taken from thermite. Vance Myets will perform an experiment on burning phosphorus. Dr. S. B. Knight, chemistry professor, will
climax the program by preparing fluorescein and showing its oxidation to mercurochrome. Just preceding the open meeting, the society members
will elect from their group one who is considered the most outstanding to become an automatic member of the American
Chemical Society. The student elected will very probably attend the annual meeting of this national honorary society next spring.

Physics Group Hears Papers
Dick Aycock and Jim Ballard presented papers at the regular meeting of Sigma Pi Sigma, honorary physics society, held last
Monday night at 7:00 in Chambers Building. Aycock discussed visual and spectroscopic instruments, both their construction and uses. Among the
more familiar uses are qualitative chemical analyses of substances and the composition of heavenly bodies. Ballard read a paper entitled,
“Sunspots.” He described the nature of sunspots and the various theories regarding their influence upon the terrestrial atmosphere and weather.
He stated that some hypotheses had been brought forth suggesting the influence of sunspots upon the stock market. This was
the first meeting at which the five new members, Bill Johnston, A. C. Warlick, Jr., C. C. Clark, Walter Kunz,
and Rufus Allison, were present.

Dr. Hood Leads Sunday School
Dr. Frazer Hood led the Sunday school service in the Phi Hall last Sunday morning. His subject was on the
three temptations of Christ. He took his text from the fourth chapter of Matthew: 1-11. Dr. Hood compared the temptations
of Christ with that of our first ancestors, Adam and Eve. There are three types of temptations: temptation through our
senses, temptation through our imagination, and temptation through our reason. Christ was tempted in each of these points. Christ was
tempted to make a wrong use of his power and change the stones into bread. Our first ancestors were also
tempted through their senses and to eat the fruit of the tree. Christ was tempted by his imagination to throw
himself off the temple. In the same way, our early ancestors were tempted through the thought of becoming Gods if
they ate of the tree. Christ was tempted through his reasoning to doubt his heavenly Father and worship the devil.
Adam and Eve were also tempted to doubt whether God spoke the truth when He said they should die if
they ate the fruit. It is interesting to see how Christ answered all these temptations. He quoted scripture: “Thou shalt
not eat of bread alone,” in answer to the first temptation; “Thou shalt not tempt the Lord thy God,” in
answer to the second one; and “Thou shalt worship the Lord thy God and him only shalt thou serve.” The
way in which Christ answered his temptations should be a practical help for us today.

Auburn Cavaliers December 9th and 10th

Scripts ’n Pranks To Be Issued Friday
Scripts ‘n’ Pranks, Davidson’s humor magazine, will be at the post office this Friday, Rut Miller, editor-in-chief, has announced. This
issue of the magazine will be the second of the year, the first having come out during the week of
Homecoming. The December issue will be in celebration of Christmas. The usual columns will be presented, as well as other
features and articles. There will be thirty-two pages, the same number as the last issue.

Three Injured In Automobile
Ward, Linville, and Garvey Slightly Hurt

Three Davidson students were injured late Sunday night when the car in which they were riding skidded off the slippery
pavement. Bill Ward, driver of the car, was cut on the head. Charlie Linville suffered a bruise on his face
and knees, while Bob Garvey bruised his arm and his face. Both Ward and Linville remained in the college infirmary
for observation following the accident. The three were returning from Warrenton, Ward's home, where they had spent the weekend. As
the car rounded a curve near Concord, on the Concord-Asheboro highway, it skidded on wet pavement and overturned into a
ditch. All of the occupants of the car were temporarily knocked unconscious. Garvey and Ward, the first to revive, took
the car and made their way to a farmhouse and hauled the badly damaged car to Mount Pleasant.

Society Holds Holiday Party
Members of the Philanthropic Literary Society held a gala Christmas party last night. This was the last meeting before Christmas
vacation and closed the fall undertakings of the Phi Society. The program was a varied one and included “Christmas Around
the World,” depicting the various ceremonies observed throughout the different countries. Christmas carols were sung by the entire society. A
real Santa Claus visited the society. Al Bixler and Ken MacIntyre delivered two talks on “Christmas Spent at Davidson through
the Past Hundred Years” and “Christmas Through the Ages.” A choric speaking group, the only one of its kind ever
to be present on the campus, consisting of ten members of the society had a leading part of the program.
Two of the best papers written by members of the Society during the past year were read and approved by
the group. The new improved philanthropic key was displayed by Archer Torrey. The key is in the shape of the
Greek letter, Phi. Immediately after returning from the Christmas vacation a series of campaign speeches will be made by

Jim Armstrong Convicted In Court
Charged With Drawing Weapon Against Superior Officer

In the mock military court martial last Friday Lieutenant James W. Armstrong was convicted of the charges of refusing to
obey and of drawing a weapon upon a superior officer. The court was opened by Major J. L. Ballard. Sam
Hemphill, court recorder, took the oath, and the whole court was sworn in. The witnesses for the prosecution and who
had been present at the drill when the alleged assault occurred were then presented by the trial judge advocate, Wesley
Coghill, and his assistants, George Jones, Louis Hipp, and Bill Page. Captain Andy Turner described how Lt. John Tice had
ordered Lt. Armstrong to take his platoon in, how Armstrong had drawn his saber, and how Tice had warned him
against insubordination. Second witness, Lt. Charlie Sample, confirmed Turner's statement. Porter asserted that Armstrong was not wearing the proper insignia.
These witnesses were cross-examined by the defense. The defense then endeavored to prove that Armstrong drew his sabre in horseplay.
Sergeant Neely, the first witness, stated that Captain Turner’s evidence was not valid. The other witnesses stated that Armstrong did
not draw his weapon with intent to assault Captain Tice. The members of the court found Lt. Armstrong guilty and
sentenced him.

Team Elects New ManagerMashburn Chosen Varsity Manager By Large Majority

At the “D” club banquet on Thursday night, it was announced that Charlie Mashburn was elected varsity football manager for
next year. In the voting, Mashburn received 33 votes, Jeep Gladden received 7 votes, and Bub Coltrain received 7 votes.
In the run-off for equipment and freshmen managers, which was held Monday, Jeep Gladden received a majority over Coltrain and
Burch, with Gladden receiving 7 votes, Coltrain 3 votes, and Burch 3 votes. Gladden was elected equipment manager while Coltrain
was elected freshman manager. The junior managers for next year have not been selected.

Charlie Mashburn, who is second vice-president of the student body and a member of the Phi Delta Theta social fraternity,
will succeed Cage Brewer as varsity manager. Jeep Gladden is a member of the Kappa Alpha social fraternity, and Bub
Coltrain is a member of Pi Kappa Alpha.

Greer Speaks Here

At chapel last Saturday, Davidson students were honored with the presence of Doctor R. C. Grier, President of Erskine College.
Doctor Grier made a short talk on the subject of the vast opportunities which will be opened to college students
after their graduation. He stated that since 1910, whenever Erskine meets Davidson in an athletic event, a fine spirit of
courtesy is shown.

Portraits Can Be Obtained In Georgia

The portrait enlargements of the annual pictures, which were ordered by a large number of students, have arrived and are
now available. Students may obtain them by coming by the room of Mark Lillard, Quips and Cranks Business Manager, in
10 Georgia Dormitory. It is necessary that all students who ordered enlargements in the first order get them before the
beginning of the Christmas holidays, Friday, December 16. The enlargements were made by Dunbar and Daniel studio of Raleigh.

Christmas Dances To Feature Music Of Skeets Morris

Honor Men Entertained At Banquet

Von Beckerath, German Scholar, Delivers Main Address of the Evening

Professor Herbert Von Beckerath, an internationally known scholar and faculty member of Duke University, delivered the address of the evening
at the initiation of Phi Beta Kappa on Monday evening in the banquet hall of Chambers Building. The subject of
Professor Von Beckerath’s speech consisted of the causes leading up to the recent world rebellion. He stated, “The 19th century
ended in 1929 with the depression. Now we are living in an age when the lower classes, having lost their
leaders, have come to the fore.” He also pointed out that the peace made at Munich may be a blessing;
for that reason, all of our social and political institutions would be destroyed.

Several Attend Symposium From Davidson

Professor Archibald Currie, Dr. Marchant, Williamson, Gilliam, Jack Ferguson, Pete Rene, and Dan Law attended the Duke Law Symposium held
at Durham on December the second and third. This symposium, which is part of the centennial celebration of Duke University,
was held in conjunction with the annual meeting of the state bar association. The theme of the meeting was “law
in modern society.” Several jurists of international reputation made addresses on this theme. Some of the notables were Dr. Harold
Ludi, professor at London University, Judge Stevens of Washington, who is mentioned for the next supreme court appointment, and Mr.
Walter Lippman, distinguished commentator on public affairs.

Yule Program Will Be Given As Vesper Service

The annual YMCA Christmas vesper service will be held in Chambers auditorium next Sunday night at 7:30 o'clock. Miss Katheryn
Swain of Winston-Salem will be the guest soloist. The stage will be decorated with cedar boughs in and out among
the orchestra, which will open the service with “Lift Up Your Heads” from the Messiah. After the prelude prayer, the
Glee Club will sing the chorale: “Break Forth, O Beauteous, Heavenly Light” by Bach. Sherrad Rice will lead the audience
in singing, after which everyone will sing “O, Come All Ye Faithful.” Dick Kenyon will be the reader during the
prophecy, Birth, and Adoration. After the Prophecy, the Quartette will sing “Softly The Night is Sleeping” by Warner. After the
Birth, Miss Swain and the Glee Club will sing “O Holy Night” by Adam. The Glee Club will also sing
the old French carol “Angels O'er the Fields Were Flying” after the Adoration. A number of selected carols will be
sung by the audience. A large number of people other than students are expected to attend the Christmas Vesper Service.
This program is given each year on the Sunday before the students leave for the Christmas holidays.

Club To Have Photo Exhibit On Tuesday

On Tuesday and Thursday, Dec 13 and 14, the newly-formed Numeral Club will hold an exhibit of photographs made by
amateur photographers here at Davidson. The exhibit will take place in the Social Center. The showing, consisting of about forty
prints, will contain all types of photography such as candid shots, artistic shots, portraiture, and other types. First, second, and
third awards will be made, chosen by vote of the students who attend. The hours for the exhibit will be
from chapel on Tuesday till 9:00 P.M. and on Wednesday from chapel till 7:00. At 7:00 on Wednesday, there will
be a lecture concerning the chemical properties of photographic papers sponsored by Eastman Kodak Company. This should prove interesting to
photographers.

Girl Vocalist Will Appear With Orchestra

On Friday and Saturday of this week, the Pan-Hellenic Council will present the gala Christmas Ball in the Charlotte Armory.
Music will be featured by “Skeets” Morris and His Auburn Cavaliers, well known throughout the South for their entertaining ability.
With them will be Miss Connie Moore, vocalist.

Four Dances

The final set before the approaching holidays will include four dances. On Friday afternoon from 5:00 P.M. to 7:00 P.M.
there will be a tea dance. The formal dance will be given on the same night from 10:00 P.M. to
2:00 A.M. On Saturday, there will be another tea dance in the afternoon from 4:30 to 6:30. The informal night
dance will be given Saturday night from 8:30 P.M. to 12:00 P.M. There will be four no-breaks at both of
the evening affairs. Immediately before intermission at the formal dance Friday night, the Pan-Hellenic Council will hold the figure consisting
of Council members and alternates with dates. Favors will be distributed by Raymond Pittman, president of the Council, and Miss
Mary Randolph of Nashville, Tenn.

Decorations

The event decorations will be done in red, green, and white. The colors of Mistletoe and holly will be freely
used. The holiday spirit will be the general theme. Set tickets are now on sale, but the deadline on their
purchase has been set for Thursday night at 9:00 P.M. In view of the fact that the “Georgia Rats” will
meet the “Watts Hounds” on the gridiron Saturday afternoon, the informal dance will serve as a victory ball for one
of these rivals.

Davidson's newly-formed Numeral Club will hold its second meeting tonight at 9:30 in the D Club room. This club, whose
purpose is to promote participation in freshmen sports, was recently established by the D Club. Its membership is composed of
those freshmen who won their numerals in football and cross-country. The club membership will be supplemented in the middle of
the basketball season by those men who have played sufficient quarters to get their numerals. Officers of the club are
Claude Hackney, President; Charlie Watt, Vice-President; and George Marsh, Secretary.

W. A. Smart Speaks On Faith

“There are men in our colleges today who feel that their faith is gradually slipping away from them, and they
are powerless to prevent this,” stated the Reverend Dr. W. A. Smart, as he led last Sunday’s vesper services. Dr.
Smart, an ordained Methodist minister and professor of Biblical Theology at Emory University in Georgia, at one time held a
pastorate in Charlotte.

The modern generation does not accept every word in the Bible as true any longer; neither do they have as
strong a faith as formerly, he asserted. There are several reasons for this. The age to which college students have
attained is partly responsible for this attitude. They have left the religious training of the home and have developed mental
faculties which lead them to question things which they formerly accepted without doubt. The present period of progress is one
in which the inhabitants do not accept things as readily as they used to. The atmosphere of the college campus
also dares them to question where once they believed.

“The remedy for this,” concluded Dr. Smart, “is for students to think of all the things in which they do
believe when they have a sense of this feeling that their faith is being destroyed. What is our creed, and
this creed should be inductive. Something in all of us leads us to know what is best for us and
for mankind in general, such as truth, loyalty, courage, and chastity. When we do not have the courage to do
what is right, we have not been loyal to our creed.”
