Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN Wednesday, November 30, 1938

The Davidsonian
Founded By the Class of 1915
1938 1939
Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest
Member
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON Ave. NEW YORK, N.Y.
CHICAGO BOSTON LOS ANGELES - SAN FRANCISCO

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office in Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879.

Editor-in-Chief S. JESS... BEATA
Business Manager JOHN LATIMER....

EDITORIAL STAFF
Terrell Porter -------Assistant Editor
Ras Abernathy - Editor
Ike Austin --.. Editor
Lee Holland Editor
Carl Hudson Editor
Sam Spencer Editor
Tom Casali Editor
Ovid Bell - Associate Editor
Joe Calvin ... Associate Editor
Wesley Coghill - Associate Editor
Perry Sloan -- Sports Editor
Henry Baker - Movie Editor
Walt Kunz - Photographer

BUSINESS STAFF
Lee Breelvier - Asst. Business Manager
Jim Currie - Advertising Manager
Bill Ross - Advertising Manager
Julian Lokey - Circulation Manager
Louis Hackney - Circulation Manager
Bud Gilmore - Collection Manager

Honorary
About this time every year honorary fraternities issue a number of bids and a new group of men add a
key to their chain, another honor to their list, and climb another rung on the ladder toward becoming a campus
“big shot.” It is an honor for certain organizations to propose members of the student body for their achievements, but
too frequently the only achievement the initiate accomplishes is payment of another initiation fee.

We are not arguing that honorary frats are not a good thing because they give students something to work for
and a goal at which to aim, besides an outlet for broadening oneself in whatever field particularly interests him. We
are heartily in favor of honoraries, but we are also in favor of their doing something for the good of
the school or for the betterment of the students, and it is all too easy to name several on the
campus that are not doing this.

Most universities and many colleges find the same trouble on their campuses, but Davidson is fortunate in not having the
handicap that bothers institutions which select members for ODK or similar societies entirely on the basis of a point system
which gives a man points for each honorary fraternity that he belongs to, even though it be a “deadhead.” On
these campuses many of those aspiring to campus prominence try to join as many honor societies as possible to become
entitled to a few more points, thus “buying” their way to fame.

The main trouble at Davidson is that we have too many honoraries on the campus in proportion to the size
of the student body. Of course, when one suggests doing away with some of these, it is easy enough to
argue that there is a place for each one and that under proper leadership they would all do big things.
It seems to us, however, that the most convincing argument that can possibly be presented is to point to the
dilapidated condition of some of them, and that the best move for all concerned would be to get rid of
these.

* * *

Problem Child?
The South is quite frequently called the “problem child” of the nation. Since President Roosevelt’s National Emergency Council released its
report concerning the economic condition of the South, the nation as a whole has been scratching its head, making a
lot of speeches, and writing a great deal about the situation, but few head-scratchers, orators, or writers have offered practical
suggestions for a solution to the problem confronting us. Very little study, comparatively speaking, has been given to increasing the
number and volume of Southern products which have a reasonable chance of finding markets.

The per capita income of the South is lower than that of any other section of the country; but, according
to eminent economists, all this talk about share-cropper abuses and exploitation in general is not the real problem, since if
all income in the South were divided equally the per capita apportionment would still be very low. At the present
time the income just isn’t there to increase per capita. Then what is the answer? Here it is: increase the
total income of the section rather than worry about dividing up the small income it does have.

This increase in total income must come about in two ways: we must develop new sources and new industries and
find markets for them, and educate our growing population to meet this change in economy. The South has a greater
population increase than any other section of the country, at a time when our national birth rate is declining. This
means, of course, that the future population center of the nation, at the present rate, will be right here in
the South. It will be the South which will furnish the nation with the new blood it will require for
advancement.

An economic symposium was recently held at Duke University in which leading economic authorities from far and wide spent the
better part of two days discussing these problems and means of solving them, and it is up to all of
us to inform ourselves on this subject and help the South prove to the nation that it is more than
a “problem child” — it is a promising child.

Your Film Report Card
By Charlie Luther

November 30th.
* * *
“SPRING MADNESS,” Maureen O'Sullivan, Lew Ayres, and Burgess Meredith. The romance of Maureen O'Sullivan and Lew Ayres is going badly
because of his plan to go to Russia with Burgess Meredith until Maureen’s sorority sisters take a hand in this
gay college story.

Thursday and Friday, December 1st and 2nd.
* * *
“MY LUCKY STAR,” Sonja Henie, Richard Greene, and Cesar Romero. A too mediocre college film, until Sonja gets on the
ice—there the screen becomes magic. Richard Greene (his accent is impossible) is her beau ideal; Cesar Romero is again a
play-boy caught in the clutches of Louise Hovick. See this for Sonja’s lovely smiling self.

Saturday, December 3rd.
* * *
“THE SHINING HOUR,” Joan Crawford, Melvyn Douglas, Robert Young, and Margaret Sullavan. Joan Crawford is a cabaret dancer who marries
Melvyn Douglas, not because she loves him but because she wants to get out of the show business. They go
to Douglas’ farm where Joan meets Robert Young, his brother, and Margaret Sullavan, his wife. Young has married Margaret because
he has been thrown with her for so long that it just seemed natural to do so. Young falls in
love with Joan and many complicated affairs arise. A truly grand show.

* * *
You can’t keep some people from thinking. The job is to get some of them started.

Initiative is the thing—first. And the ability to do the right thing. And the world pays well for it.

It never rains on the unjust if he can get hold of an umbrella belonging to the just.

It isn’t the size of the dog in the fight, but the size of the fight in the dog that
counts.

A man sometimes drinks to forget, and about the only thing he forgets is when to stop.

Before you make an investment in a going concern, make sure which way it is going.

There is a wide difference between seeing through a thing and seeing a thing through.

Fear of failure will help you fail just as surely as faith in success will help you to succeed.

A man can easily save twenty years of his life by studying the experience of others.

Do not think you are the only brainy man in the business; the rest of the staff doesn’t.

Once in a while, not often, a man is born who isn’t afraid. Then things begin to move.

CAMPUS IN CARTOON
SUPER SNOOPINGS
HANS Cate

10% OF THE 1932 GRADUATES OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE HAD GRANDFATHERS WHO HAD ALSO GRADUATED FROM DAVIDSON!

HAS A BROTHER THE SAME HEIGHT WHO WILL TRY FOR VARSITY NEXT YEAR — IMAGINE A PAIR OF 6'8" ENDS!

HE IS A MERE 6 FT. 8 IN. IN HEIGHT AND SPECIALIZES IN PASS RECEIVING!

From Campus To Campus
Kingston, R.I.—(ACP)—When it comes to devising vote-buying political platforms, Californians have nothing on Rhode Island State College students. In the
annual campaign for “campus mayor,” the candidates offered everything from the elimination of final examinations to free gasoline for all
student-driven cars. Their words speak louder than ours, so here are just a few sample platforms in the proposed seven-sided
race.

Ralph “Buck” Bucci, the “studentism candidate for the singing of Kingston,” promised:
1. Lectures in rhythm—swing sessions in all classes.
2. Free dances every other night (refreshments served) — alternate nights left open for petting.
3. Free date bureau—partners produced to order.
4. No paddling of freshmen.
5. No more exams.
6. No more failures.
7. Honor privileges to all.
8. Upholstered and air-conditioned chairs everywhere.
9. Refreshments and tobacco served in classes.
10. Suspension of Saturday classes.

Wee Willie Wilcox, the “Dog Patch” candidate, went “Buck” one better with this platform:
1. The use of a Lincoln Zephyr or Model T at the rate of 10c a week under the Socialized
Car Users Association Act.
2. Instead of exams, a final gala week of sprees from the proceeds of the accumulation of the2 days. 3.
$30 every “blue” Monday or “wet” Friday. 4. Open subsidization of athletes. 5. No corsages at college dances. 6. A
“Sadie Hawkins” day. 7. Preserved turnips for everyone. 8. Swing sessions at all assemblies with famous bands instead of dry
speakers. 9. Greased flag-pole fight between freshmen and sophomores. 10. Free hurricane insurance for all professors over 80. 11. No
more curfew for co-eds. 12. 1¢ sale at the bookstore every Sunday; 1¢ sale at Giro’s every Tuesday. 13. Free
postage to all co-eds in China. 14. A full moon once a month.

Elmira, N. Y.—(ACP)—The old-fashioned diary is coming into its own again at Elmira College. A professor of English is requiring
his students to keep a daily journal to stimulate their individual natural styles of prose writing. He has found that
it aids them in destroying the stiff, self-conscious, false literary style they use in writing ordinary themes.

Evanston, Ill.—(ACP)—“The dollars and cents value of the college degree is, on the average, between three and four times greater
than a high school diploma.” This note of encouragement to those struggling for a college education comes from Dr. Samuel
N. Stevens, dean of the university college of Northwestern University, who has just completed a survey of the economic status
of some 14,000 college graduates.

The vast majority of those surveyed and board. Ed was one of 28 sophs on coach Cody's Gator football squad
when September 1 rolled around. He hoped he could be a sophomore linesman who learned rapidly and acquire the necessary
skills to meet the competition of college football today. Because he was on the varsity squad, Ed was provided, in
accordance with conference rules, room. Though he dreamed of being a star, Ed Waszak came to the realization a fortnight
ago he simply did not have the abilities and the talents necessary to make him the kind of player Florida
needed. And so Ed Waszak, on his own, went to Coach Cody and admitted he didn’t have it in football—as
much as he loved the game, and as much as he loved the thrill of the personal contact which the
game provided.

“If I can’t help you, Coach,” the 205-pounder said, “then I don’t think I should receive scholarship assistance.” The assistance
Ed received was a factor in his college life, but he took the course that a less courageous student would
never have taken. But Ed has the courage and today he is continuing his college education, still refusing to accept
any more than he can repay in service or ability.

There's hope for you—Noah was six hundred years old before he knew how to build the ark.

While looking for a million in the distance, don’t overlook the dollar right under your nose.

It is more pleasant to have a business that you can’t get away from than one you can’t keep.

A man is in the most imminent danger of being wrong when he is most positive of being right.

By KEN LAWSON

Despite very discouraging and slanderous remarks by Editor Marquess, and others that this column is only a filler used to
round out the page when nothing else is available, I will continue to dish the dirt because some of you
must read this to cause me to get my usual Wednesday night buffeting, both physical and mental, because of the
appearance of certain cracks.

Thanksgiving, the day of turkey-filled tummies and flying pigskins, has come and gone leaving memories of a cold rain and
colder seats in the Charlotte stadium. The number of old boys up for the game was relatively small, but John
Porterfield, Bobby Abel, Jim Johnston, Wally Tonnison, Chink Thompson, Ken Fryfogle and others graduates of recent years were spotted in
the stands cheering lustily for the Wildcats. The feature of the weekend of course was the wholesale exodus of Davidsons
to Durham for the Duke-Pitt classic. An interesting sidelight of this game was the continuance of studies by T. A.
Hackeke in the school of experience. Results of the second lesson of the Fall show that it is best to
carefully scrutinize the spectators immediately behind you before draping a blanket over your head. We also understand that several of
the fellows purchased panther cubs at exorbitant prices only to have them die during the game.

The column would be far from complete without mentioning the trip to the Army-Navy game made by Fred Stair, Sam
Newell, Cage Brewer, Hank Bahnson, Pete Marchant, and Sam Hemphill. Besides sitting in the seventy-third row in the endzone, Hemphill
learned that Listerine—not swallow—is supposed to gargle it, and also some new wrinkles in the playing of baseball in a
brief show labeled “Bottoms Up.” Marchant was attracted too much by a young lady friend to attend the show with
other boys.

Here goes for some flash dope: Benny Harrison petitioning for membership in Kampus Kids, Bob Wyatt changing from a demi
man to a double man in short order, Ray Pittman, Tom Mullen, and Paul Marion in New York but very
tight-mouthed about any matters of a columnistic nature, Hayseed Thomas setting a style precedent in brown Corduroy hat and matching
accessories Thursday night, Tom “Ugly Puss” McLean on a merry-go-round all weekend, Mark Lillard, Ad Long and Foxy Tonnison visiting
S.A.E. house at Duke where Lillard performed his good turn in true boy scout manner, Walt Heilman and Harry Suttenfield
as happy as larks but rubbing it in far more than necessary. If this isn’t enough dope to satisfy you
just ask anyone who went to the Duke-Pitt game for the rest.

In the Groove By TOM PERRIN

SUCCESS STORY. According to the columnist fable, once upon a time there was a writer who found his deadline approaching
with bewildering celerity. And, lack-a-day, he had not a thought to fill his allotted space. Disgrace confronted him and the
loss of his pay check seemed imminent. In his despair he chanced to glance at a rival journal; and lo,
an idea smote him. And when his paper rolled from the giant presses, the space under his column was found
to be thus filled: “What did Walter Winchell mean by this?” he demanded, and beneath the question he printed the
whole of the great Broadway scribe’s latest effort. The people joyously acclaimed him, and his publisher gave him a bonus
for the best column he had ever written. Maybe it’s not a bad idea.

HAZE DAYS. Sometime ago we told you some of the pranks the undergrads used to enjoy at Hallowe'en, back in
the Good Old Days. Naturally the same boys didn’t just sit around and let things stagnate for the rest of
the year. They went in for a high grade of hazing and general cutting-up in the off seasons too.

Here is one of the best hazing stories we've come across lately. It’s presumably authentic, too, since it comes indirectly
from Mr. T. M. Griffith, Mayor of Davidson, who was speaking of his own days here. There was, it seems
(as often is), a certain bullying, swaggering freshman who became pretty obnoxious to upperclassmen. So, after contriving a sufficiently diabolical
plot, several strapping sophs dragged the victim from his hole in Rumple one dark night. With terrible solemnity they carried
the frosh across town, down to the railroad track. Quickly they spread-eagled the struggling boy over the tracks. Then they
tied him and left. In a few moments the northbound train could be heard thundering along the rails in the
distance, the frosh’s fear skyrocketed; he screamed; he yelled. Suddenly the beam of the locomotive’s headlight played on his prostrate
form as the engine lurched around the curve. There was a terrified shriek; the cars lurched on—and by. He had
been tied to a siding just a yard or so out of danger. Happy ending: the victim was a model
freshman thereafter.

PATTER. Jack Leonard, who sings for Tommy Dorsey, holds his hands over his ears to avoid being confused when doing
one of those lyrics with other members of the band singing different words in the background (as in “Marie,” “Yearnin’,”
“Who,” “Patter choruses,” or something like that). “I hate to see ads on,” said an elderly professor the other day.
“Why, just don’t SMELL like women when they listen to those ads.”

BRICK. Probably not one in ten has ever seen it, but there is in Chambers Building a brick from the
original Chambers. It is stamped 1857 (not 1837 as some think—old Chambers wasn't built until '57) and is there for
all to see, on the North side of the building, west side, with a nice bronze plate to mark it.
The brick, like all those in old Chambers, was made near the spot. Now it sort of links the old
with the new.

In more senses than one, life is not a merry-go-round. You don’t cover the same course twice.

There never was anything made but that someone else could make it worse and sell it for less.

It’s all right to dream of the things you're going to do if you begin to work on them right
now.

A service that falls short of the customer's expectation is much worse than no service at all.

Nowadays the electric switch makes things go. In the olden days they used the hickory switch.

Peace of mind is a business asset; giving a customer a piece of your mind is a business liability.

Good will is the margin of service delivered to customers beyond what they have asked for.

It's a long lane that has no turning, and a poor salesman who won't persist until he comes to it.

Modesty in delivering our opinions leaves us the liberty of changing them without humiliation.

If you have done a good job, don't look as if you fluked it. Let 'em know it’s a habit
of yours.

If you will work for others as you would like others to work for you, you'll never be out of
a job.

Don't say that the early bird gets the worm. Nowadays the early bird gets his own breakfast.

Momentum is a gradual move towards a dead stop. The business that runs on it doesn't get far.

An interesting and popular form of solitaire is figuring how rich you'd be if you'd stayed single.
