Hudson to Play For Next Dances

Z528 ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Che Davidsonian

Stair Leader In President Race

VOL. XXV DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., WEDNESDAY, MAR. 9, 1938 NO. 23

Lecture Committee Secures Untermeyer For Speech On Arts

Annual Plan Famous Poet, Critic, and Lecturer to Give Address Here March 22

New Idea To Lecture Here Friday

Noted Collector of Paintings To Present Illustrated Talk

Louis Untermeyer, known poet, critic, and lecturer, has been secured for an address here on the evening of March 22,
announced Shewmake of the committee on public lectures recently.

The writer's topic is to be “The New American Arts,” it is thought, and he will probably read selections of
poetry in the course of the lecture.

Mr. Untermeyer has received recognition for his serious poetry and his parodies as well. Challenge, These Times, and The New
Adam are some of his serious works, while “And Other Poets,” including Horace, and Heavens are numbered among his volumes
of critical parodies. His latest book is Heinrich Heine, published last year, which consists of the life of that German
poet and a translation of his works.

Born in New York some fifty years ago, Mr. Untermeyer has lived there, except for brief intervals, ever since. A
weakness in mathematics prevented his entering college, and at the age of sixteen he entered his father’s jewelry business, and
twenty years later resigned his position of vice president of the concern to devote his time to writing.

Mr. Untermeyer will probably be accompanied here by his wife, Jean Starr Untermeyer, also a poet of note.

The lecture will be given in the Chambers Auditorium and will be free to friends of the college, it is
announced. The time has been set at eight-fifteen.

Dr. William Yandell Elliott, Harvard economist, who was originally scheduled to speak here in February, will probably be the next
lecturer brought here by the committee. He will arrive sometime this month.

The 1938 edition of “Quips and Cranks” under the guidance of J. K. Dorsett and Wally Tonnis, according to present
plans, will be a radical departure from the usual stereotyped form for annuals.

Striking the keynote of modernism will be the motif of airplanes, attractively setting off the whole book. Another keynoting idea
is that of informalism—strikingly expressed in the use of more informal and candid snaps.

Perhaps the most unusual, although used successfully before, is the idea of putting the pictures of the various important campus
organizations such as student council before those of the various classes.

A feature which should greatly improve the appearance of the yearbook will be the idea of having the ODK and
Phi Beta Kappa, and the other important campus organizations, in two-page spreads with color. This, with the usual colored frontispiece,
should give the annual quite a bit of distinction.

Instead of the customary method of arranging the sponsors of fraternities, this year's edition will put them with the fraternity,
and also have two pictures of each sponsor, this necessitating, of course, a four-page spread for each frat.

In keeping with the policy of running informal snaps, and in addition to the usual informals of the class officers,
this edition will feature candid shots of the various professors, supplementing the usual formal pictures. Then in the honors sections
there will be group shots, showing their collective activities, formal or informal.

Another novel idea—informal action shots of a few of the real campus leaders—is also featured.

Dr. Thomas Sparrow, eminent surgeon, gave an address to the Pre-medical fraternity, last Wednesday night.

Dr. Sparrow said, “The schools of today cannot possibly take care of the students to such a degree that practically
all those that are recognized have an A rating. This is not the fault of the system, however, as although
a student may make an excellent doctor, he might fail in supplementary courses.”

Dr. Sparrow emphasized the fact that schools will accept an applicant who has failed to climb the grade ladder in
one school, but not in another. This may seem hard and unjust, but we must remember that others were turned
away for him.

Dr. Sparrow finds the best time of day for personal devotions. Then the appeal was given to start prayers in
the right mood and to have them in line with the will of God. Selfish desires too often appear in
the fellowship and communion of prayer.

Closing the meeting, Boggs led a brief period of silent prayer for various world-wide and campus needs.

James Robert Gillette presented his Chamber Orchestra on Wednesday, March 2nd, in Chambers Auditorium to an enthusiastic and receptive audience.
The orchestra, consisting of ten members, was accompanied by Mr. Gillette on a Hammond electric organ.

During the program, there were two solos, the first by Lorraine Martineau who played the violin.

This issue of The Davidsonian was edited by more members of the editorial staff. This is the second week that
the sophomores have served in the capacity of junior editors, for within a few days six of the sophomore group
will be elected to serve as junior editors for next year. The men responsible for the pages in this issue
are: Assignment editor, Jack Abernathy.Abernathy; page one, Sam press, that a student can hope to buy classic, “Symphonie Espagnole” by
Spencer; page three, Jack Holland; problems. An announcement was made regarding the prayer by Mr. Gillette, who played two numbers
on the Hammond organ. His first selection was “Claire de lune” by Karg-Elert and his second was “Chromatic Etude” which
demonstrated the potentialities of the Hammond organ. It was written by the director.

The program was chosen carefully to demonstrate the full capabilities of each member of the orchestra as well as the
talent of the members as a whole. Always quiet and unpretentious, the orchestra was delightful to the music-lover. Never did
Mr. Gillette lead his players into depths over the capabilities and limits, but guided them into the restive passages of
true Chamber music.

The program was as follows: Sinfonia in B flat major by Johann Christian Bach; Violin solo by Lorraine Martineau, Symphonie
Espagnole by Edouard Lalo; Overture by Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart; Suite Rokoko by Walter Neimann; Organ solo by Mr. Gillette, Claire
de lune by Siegfred Karg-Elert and Chromatic Etude by J. R. Gillette; and Poem Elegiac by F. Locke Lawrence.

Dr. McDowell Richards, son of Dr. C. M. Richards, of the Davidson faculty, spoke to the students at the regular
Vesper Services last Sunday night. Dr. Richards, who graduated from Davidson with honors and later studied at Oxford University as
a Rhodes Scholar, has been for the past few years head of the Columbia Theological Seminary. Using Matthew 6:19 for
his text, the speaker brought out some new ideas on the summation of those verses of scripture. Choice between material
things and earthly things, between good and evil, between labor and ease, and choice between mammon and God. “For no
man can serve two masters; for either he will hate the one, and love the other; or else he will
hold to one, and despise the other.” Our earthly existence is a continued process of choices between these factors and
there is hardly ever a circumstance that arises that does not have an alternate.

“We must pay the price of self-denial,” Dr. Richards continued, “if we are to have harmonious physical development.” Lastly, he
brought out the fact that so often at our colleges we become a “jack of all trades,” and master of
none. Oftentimes our studies are taken in too light a vein and no good results. Our choices make all the
difference in the total summation of our lives at the final counting.

Dean Hudson and his Florida Clubmen have been secured for the Pan-Hellenic Council to play for the forthcoming Spring Dances,
which will be held on April 8th and 9th in the Charlotte Armory. Arrangements have been made to hold four
dances instead of the usual three that have been held heretofore this year as a tea dance will be given
on Friday afternoon. Other dances will be the formal, informal, and the Saturday tea dance. The price will be $4.00
for the set of four. The prices of the single dances will vary.

Dr. Carlton Palmer will lecture in Chambers Auditorium Friday night on his art collection in which he has over thirty
original paintings by some of the finest contemporary painters. The picture below, “Coaching in 1836” by Eugene Chaperon, is one
of the pictures he will criticize in his lecture. Dr. Palmer will tell of the many interesting experiences he had
in collecting the pictures.

Dr. W. P. McNider, Dean of the Medical School of the University of North Carolina, will be a guest of
the college and the Vocational Guidance Movement of the Y. M. C. A. on Monday, March 14. Dr. McNider will
be on the campus during the afternoon and part of the evening. From 3:30 to 4:00 in the afternoon he
will hold conferences with the pre-med students. In the evening at 7:15, he will deliver a lecture in the Chemical
Laboratory lecture room. All men planning to go into medicine as a life work and those who are interested in
medicine are invited.

The Vocational Guidance program began two years ago under the direction of Ken Scott, but was not carried out last
year. This is the first of the lectures on various life vocations including law, business, education, ministry, and of course
this lecture on medicine.

Sam Spencer was elected president, with George Richmond and Charles Mashburn in the race for second vice-president. Bob Balsley, and
Frank Newell were in the race for secretary.

Fred Stair, Newell, McClellan In First Ballot For Student Body

The Davidsonian went to press yesterday with the news that the vote for president of the student body was held
yesterday morning. Sam Spencer was elected president, with George Richmond and Charles Mashburn in the race for second vice-president. Bob
Balsley, and Frank Newell were in the race for secretary.

The nominations were made at the student council meeting on Monday and the vote was held yesterday morning. The student
council committee nominated Warren Rice for president of the student body. Bob Sherrill, Sam Newell, Fred McClellan, Porter Pittman, and
Bud Ball were nominated for vice-president.

The first ballot shows that Sam Spencer received 131 votes, George Richmond held 105, and Charles Mashburn received 95 votes.

The Philanthropic Literary Society held an open meeting last Saturday night in Phi Hall. Horine presided over the debate. The
speakers upholding the affirmative side of the question were Fred Stair and Edward Simpson. The decision was rendered in favor
of the affirmative side. Dr. Cummins, chairman of the judges, offered a short constructive criticism of the debates presented by
the representatives of the two societies.

The annual Photographic Contest, sponsored by the College Pharmacy and the Davidsonian, will close next Monday. All entries must be
in by midnight on March 14. Charlie Moore and Hugh Sapp, co-managers of the contest, report that many snapshots have
been received, but the field is still wide open for many prize winners.

In the main phase of the contest, photos will be judged on unusual subject matter, technique, and artistry. Typical pictures
of the contest have been arranged in an attractive display in the window of the College Pharmacy. The Pharmacy has
promised to lend cameras to any entrants who do not have their own.
