Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, APRIL 6, 1938.

The Davidsonian
Founded By the Class of 1915
1937 Member Associated Collegiate
Distributor of Collegiate Digest 1938 Press
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON Ave New York, N.Y
CHICAGO + BOSTON + LOS ANGELES + SAN FRANCISCO

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879.

DICK VOWLES - Editor-in-Chief
BILL MARQUESS - Managing Editor
CHARLES MOORE - Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
Terrell Porter - Assistant Editor
Perry Sloan - Managing Editor
Sports Editor - Bill Marquess
Associate Editor - Sam Cothran
Associate Editor - Euclid Fant
Associate Editor - Hector McGeachy
Associate Editor - Yates Faison
Art Editor - Sam Ryburn
Movie Editor - Henry Baker

BUSINESS STAFF
Wesley Coghill - Collection Manager
Whit Latimer - Advertising Manager
Bill Miller - Advertising Manager
Andy Turner - Circulation Manager
Terrell Porter - Circulation Manager
Sam Hemphill - Business Manager

Do not worry; eat three square meals a day; say your prayers; be courteous to your creditors; keep your digestion good; exercise; go slow and go easy.
—ABRAHAM LINCOLN.

On Debating...
For many years Davidson has been recognized as a leader in debating, and other activities; but at the last debate, the size of the audience—all of seven students—gave evidence that Davidson students are no longer interested in public speaking and debate. Debating is, in every sense of the word, a sport. It is unique in that it is a sport that one can participate in all his life, and in the fact that it is of lasting social and economic profit. To the spectator, debating offers a strong challenge, and more chance to participate in the conflict than any other competitive sport, for it continually challenges the intellectual powers of the audience as much as the ability of the debaters themselves. America claims to be the foremost sporting nation in the world, but that just means that America has the most people sitting around watching someone else do all the sporting, and incidentally, getting all the benefits that the public misses. Debating is different. You can't attend a debate without making some mental effort, or without feeling the spirit of battle. Best of all, it is a sport denied to none but those who can’t think. If Davidson men are not just too intellectually lazy to accept the challenge of a debate, and if they are mentally capable of enjoying themselves without having their thoughts fed to them by the radio or movie, they will profit by taking in debates. Let's turn out and hear the debates. They will take our minds off our work, and we can have a profitable time. They don’t take any longer than the movies, and cost nothing. Are there only seven thinking men at Davidson, or are we all mental bench-warmers?
—A DEBATOR.

The Educational System...
Faults can be found in every educational system, but many things in the American system impress us with their stupidity and lack of true educational value. It is a pity that a man’s education must be measured by a narrow scale of values. Recently, C. B. Driscoll wrote in his column of a young fellow, Dennis McEvoy, who ran into the inflexible and impossible college attitude. McEvoy had done two years' work at the University of Chicago, and had studied at the Sorbonne in Paris. He had attended secondary schools in Japan, Germany, England, and Switzerland; spoke four languages fluently. When McEvoy was contemplating attending Columbia University, that august institution demanded his high school diploma. He didn’t have any. So he couldn't get into Columbia. C. B. Driscoll added with a note of sarcasm, “That's how smart a college can be.” If a true education, according to the leading institutions, consists of a flimsy certificate, proving beyond a doubt that John Dugan has taken his required subjects and a few miscellaneous electives, what’s the use of trying to be educated? For a nominal sum, you too can be a Doctor of Philosophy or a Litt.D. Anybody with a printing press can make a diploma. And it takes more than a pocketbook to get a true education. It isn’t hard to fool most people, according to Barnum, but you can’t fool yourself. Even the authorities in the field seem to have a misplaced set of educational values. But the dictionary says education is “knowledge and ability gained through a systematic course of training.” May educators in the future place the emphasis more upon the knowledge rather than put an over-emphasis upon the system.

Senior Slants
“SIDE SHOW”
With the arrival of spring on a college campus each year, everything seems to undergo a change. The most marked change occurs in the attitude of the student body. Replacing the dull, indifferent attitude accumulated during the winter months, a new spirit—one of restlessness and dissatisfaction takes hold. This cycle, or part of a cycle, is a regular occurrence according to administration officials of various institutions. We have had a period of dissatisfaction here at Davidson this year. Some of us still feel there are further grounds for a continuance of this spirit, but, to the majority, everything has returned to normal for the final spring drive. Hand in hand with the return of contentment has come the preparations for a student government for next year. The ranks of those who will be seniors next year have been combed, and certain men elected to positions of honor and trust. These are men of ability, but to perform their work well they must have student body co-operation and contentment, not grumbling and dissatisfaction. Space is too limited to cover the whole field, but one of the most glaring faults to be corrected in order to help the officers is the childish behavior during the chapel services. The fault lies not with every student, but to a large degree with certain students who seem to judge this period as the time when they are given a chance to impress their fellows with their scintillating wit. Each takes advantage of the size of the assembly to lead a noisy attack—including shrill and unmistakable cat-calls, facetious remarks, and whistles, confined for the most part to fellow students, so far. This situation has rapidly become worse. Every college man has a certain prankish nature, but these men are overstepping even these loosely drawn bounds. If you as a student and we as a student body want a certain decorum to replace these side-show antics, we can curb these practices. If you feel these breaches of conduct are out of place, show your support by frowning on buffoonery instead of encouraging it. If we can curb this spirit, we have taken a big step toward making the paths of our officers easier.
—YATES FAISON.

At the University of Florida, “hello” is an old-fashioned way of answering the telephone. To impress you with their individuality, they answer the phone in this manner: “This is the sacred sanctuary, great and glorious abode of the eminent and exalted order of heroic he-men, the haven and habitation of happiness and enlightenment, known to the masses as magnificent Sigma Chi. With whom do you wish to converse?”

“Save the inch!” This was the plea of professors of surveying attending a conference at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute here. They sent a message to congress asking defeat of a bill which would shorten the inch by two parts in a million. “Such confusion would be caused that great economic losses for many years to come would result,” the engineers said.

University of Alabama students currently are chuckling at the following “famous saying of a parent,” who wrote her daughter, after receiving notice that her child had been missing classes all too regularly: “Dearest Daughter: What are you doing, giving up classes for Lent?”

The name of University of Michigan, as given in its 1817 charter, is “Catholepistemiad or University of Michigania.”

Campus in Cartoon
THE TOTAL VALUE OF THE 3000 FRATERNITY AND SORORITY HOUSES IN THE U.S. IS $85,000,000. THE AVERAGE HOUSE IS WORTH $28,118.04. THE UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA HAS 24 SORORITIES. FRATERNITY HOUSE FURNISHINGS ALONE COST $1,000,000. 70% OF THE HOUSES HAVE TABLE TENNIS SETS. 44 HAVE GAME ROOMS. EVERY FRATERNITY HOUSE IN THE COUNTRY POSSESSES AT LEAST ONE CHAPTER-OWNED LETTERS TO THE EDITOR (Letters over 300 words in length subject to cutting. All letters considered for publication must be signed, but names will be withheld if desired)

MORE ABOUT CONTROLLED POLITICS...
Dear Bill:
We weren't going to write anything more about the point system because we thought it had all been explained. But the letter in the last Davidsonian shows clearly enough that some still have not understood the plan. The spirit of the front page article is also somewhat misleading. UBORME really does mean well. Well, I'll skip the dirty cracks and give him credit for meaning well. In the first place, nothing is gained by discussing the personality of BORU. It happens that BORU’s one great ambition in life is not to be elected to an office. He is a religious leader on the campus who is sincerely anxious to see a better Davidson, as are a few others who have no political ambitions. UBORME seems to think that the point system is solely for the purpose of gyping somebody out of all the honors he could get and getting some honors for the poor dope that can't get them on his own hook. The real purpose of any point system (and if this were not the purpose, it would not have the support of so many sane and thinking men) is to liven up our dead organizations (witness a host of defunct or nearly-defunct honoraries) and make others more efficient. This is to be achieved by inducing men to devote most of their energies to the line in which they have most talent. One of my closest friends last year killed at least two organizations of which he was president and vice-president, because he had undertaken many other activities. He got ODK, but the groups he was supposed to be leading sure suffered. I heard another...Man this year (and there are plenty in his boat) say words to the effect of: “I wish I hadn't gotten into so many things. You know, I wanted to be real active, and I had a lot of interests, and the fraternity pushed me, and now I can’t do justice to any of them.” How many men can resist the temptation to join the first few extra-curricular activities that come their way when they are freshmen and sophomores? And how many are not sorry their junior and senior years, when they are getting into those activities which mean more to them and are more important, that they have to dissipate so much of their energy in these more or less trivial activities they can’t back out on? Gentlemen, we are only human. We can't resist the temptation to bite off more cake than we can chew or digest.

We must have a few simple rules to curb our appetites for the general health of the whole college. A point system will not only save me from my freshman and sophomore indiscretions, but will serve as a valuable guide in choosing my activities all through college.

A regular who was thoughtlessly and unjustly slammed in the last issue of the Davidsonian by a student who evidently had not taken the time nor trouble to investigate what he was talking about, and who for some reason left his criticism unsigned, is Boru. Any person on campus who knows Boru's identity can and will testify that there is no other student enrolled in Davidson College who has the good of this school more at heart than he. Everything Boru has done has been motivated by an entirely unselfish purpose, with the sole ambition of making Davidson College a better place.

As to the point system, there is a need for control for extra-curricular activities. The main purpose is not to object to a point system; the main purpose is, on the other hand, to keep one man from getting more work than he can handle, and incidentally more work than he wants. And the distribution of honors, which naturally follows, would absolutely not result in giving offices to “weak sisters” or men unfit for them. As evidence, take a look at the lists of nominees in the elections recently held; I don't believe there is any sensible student who will deny that almost every man on those lists, regardless of whether or not he was elected, was suited for and capable of handling the position for which he was nominated.

Finally, the statement that point systems are silly and “high-schoolish” serves only to demonstrate how little the writer of the letter knows about affairs on other campuses. If he will take a look around, I'm sure he will find that far more colleges than high schools have point systems and benefit from them.

—SAM SPENCER.

From Campus to Campus

University of Georgia freshmen got a super-initiation at the mechanical hands of the machine age. Their traditional “yes” and “no” intelligence tests were graded by an electric machine that defies flattery or red apples and doesn’t believe the first hundred papers are the hardest. It is the first time in the nation that such a machine has been placed in actual continuous use. School officials believe it will save at least four days in placement work and a great deal of wear and tear on professors.

NEW DOLLEE BEAUTEE SALON IN THE BUILDING FORMERLY OCCUPIED BY DR. ADAMS

SPECIAL EASTER PRICES: PERMANENTS $1.50 TO $7.50

—R.A.T.

IN DEFENSE OF BORU...

Dear Editor:

My main purpose in this letter is to offer a defense of a fellow student who was thoughtlessly and unjustly slammed in the last issue of the Davidsonian by someone who evidently had not taken the time nor trouble to investigate what he was talking about, and who for some reason left his criticism unsigned. The fellow I’m defending is Boru. Any person on campus who knows Boru's identity can and will testify that there is no other student enrolled in Davidson College who has the good of this school more at heart than he. Everything Boru has done has been motivated by an entirely unselfish purpose, with the sole ambition of making Davidson College a better place.

As to the point system, there is a need for control for extra-curricular activities. The main purpose is not to object to a point system; the main purpose is, on the other hand, to keep one man from getting more work than he can handle, and incidentally more work than he wants. And the distribution of honors, which naturally follows, would absolutely not result in giving offices to “weak sisters” or men unfit for them. As evidence, take a look at the lists of nominees in the elections recently held; I don't believe there is any sensible student who will deny that almost every man on those lists, regardless of whether or not he was elected, was suited for and capable of handling the position for which he was nominated.

Finally, the statement that point systems are silly and “high-schoolish” serves only to demonstrate how little the writer of the letter knows about affairs on other campuses. If he will take a look around, I'm sure he will find that far more colleges than high schools have point systems and benefit from them.

—SAM SPENCER.

King For A Day
By CHUBBY KING

Gentlemen, unfortunately for you, I shall continue to carry a torch for the unearthment of dirt during the next month, and unless a suitable successor is found, I am still amenable to any briberistic suggestions concerning the content of this column.

An apology here to new editor Mister Marquess and to my mulch-inclined followers for the noticeable lack of any real squalor this week. Frankly, I considered myself through with Mister Vowles, and had resolved myself to a life of complete cleanliness, so secured nothing to make up this week's announcements. I even lowered myself to condescending to attend an impromptu gathering with several of my subjects — which I did, much to my regret as I now attempt to scrawl off this chatter with no preparation. It's now 5:17 AM and our lovely military society, the Scabbard and Blade, are stirring up one dickens of a fuss — initiation time for them, and apparently for the rest of us as everybody is awake... Commander Coghill — evidently groggy from a nite’s aggressiveness elsewhere — is screaming meaningless militaristic mumblings, while about twelve other dopey gents futilely attempt to understand and comply. Senior overseer, Mr. Milton Crisp, follows briskly around commenting rather disparagingly, a bit cussingly. A few Heil Somebody and Adolf would claim them for his own — they only lack the goosestep.

Highlight of the weekend with snappie snapper Jerry Harris as Master of Ceremonies from Kershaw to Charlotte — directing the activities from car window as Camden followers crowded around... It looked like Davidson goes to the horse races with a goodly number of our brethren there, decked out in the flashiest, most fashionable color schemes, with the traditional field glasses and other noticeable necessities. Phillip Arrow-smith, happy to be with Miss Way, accompanying him. The auto pulled out for Charleston until driver was dissuaded by the enthusiastic efforts of Tonnissen and Lillard who with reckless abandon cast away their hats, played tricks with cigarette butts and other varieties... Bailey Williams and The Nick were there, and of course, Rich Taylor and Gil Palmer playing around. Remnants of an ODK convention in Columbia drifted in — Vowles and McGea picking horses... A pull away to Statesville Friday nite led by jovial rotund Yates Faison, browned from a southern trip so that Miss Peggy found him irresistible and succumbed immediately to his ardent attentions. Mister Handsome — Harrison found his heart flitting toward the same young lady — so the two competed and then alternated... finally both getting fluffed... Ed Glenn was with the boys the earlier portion of the nite, but due to circumstances beyond his control, he made an early but impressive exit. R. L. Green, as ever the perfect host, played such to dancers at the Vance, bubbling with hospitality... (Incidentally, Faison with Ficklen, returned again Sunday nite). Elmore Holt seemingly headed for another trouble spell, but maybe understandable this time — he has marriage on his mind, is questioning the wisdom of a trip to York and assimilating details for such.

Terrible reports have reached this dept. concerning the loose activity of one James Dorsett acutely adrift amid the wilds of New York City — strange talk in terms of gallons, and newly found musical inclination with a preference for Bach. Rumor circulated over campus that Fitz Dade, as yet not returned from holidays, was married, but the lad fortunately only has influenza... With the recent deluge of marriages around this place a man’s gotta be careful — no telling what he might be credited with... Another rumor has it that Martin Luther Lafferty is already married, or close on the altar...

Take It Easy
By Rut Miller

NOT BAD... Everyone heard of Rollins College in Florida and most everyone knows that it has more cars per student than any other school in the country. But have you heard about the pledge group of one of the fraternities? A group of thirteen boys with a total of seventeen cars between them. That is some school, with no compulsory classes, no grades and probably no students.

EXPERIENCE... You have seen the new janitor in Chambers and have spoken to him; but did you realize that you were speaking to one of the best colored football players that this section of the south ever produced? It’s a fact, though, as he played sterling ball for the high school in Salisbury and later attended Livingstone College in the same town. Incidentally, his high school went through eight seasons without a defeat. And today Shavers (that’s his name) still ‘carries the mail’ twice a day. I hope you caught that one.

RAMBLES... The latest issue of the magazine was one of the best ever edited but did you notice that it was just one year behind time? The date ‘March 1937’ was on the top of every page. Ryburn says some wiseacre said that every time he looked at a girl's fingernails he saw red. Wait until you see ‘Dopey,’ the seventh of the seven dwarfs! Without a doubt it’s the best performance of the current movie season, and ‘Dopey’ deserves the Academy Award if any man ever did.

GOLF RULES... (1) Members found prostrate on the floor from overplaying the 19th hole, may be lifted without penalty. (2) Any member who asks the Pro to re-shaft a wooden tee shall be expelled for tightness unbecoming a member. (3) If a player fails to gain ten yards in four shots “the ball goes over.” After the third shot it’s always advisable to punt.

DANCES... Records by Dean Hudson on sale in Charlotte. Following in the footsteps of dirtslinger King let us say that he is a bit of all right. Funny thing, the orchestra is called the Florida Clubmen but no one in Florida apparently has ever heard of them. Anyway, let's pitch a big ’un!

WHEN YOU THINK OF WHITE SHOES THINK OF JOHN MAWHINNEY

New Low Price White Moccasins: $1.95

RUMPLE’S REGAL SHOE CO.

ROLLS DEVELOPED

Any size roll kodak film developed, eight never-fade Velox prints for only 25¢ (coin). Valuable premiums given. Mail your films to:

Jack Rabbit Co.
SPARTANBURG, S. C.