New Members Elected By Phi Beta Kappa

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA

The Davidsonian

LIBERTAS

Social Season Opens With Fall Dances

VOL. XXVI DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 19, 1938 No. 5

Jones’ Sweet Rhythm Featured By Council For First Alternates Chosen For Friday Night Figure

TIME OF DANCES SET

Four No-Breaks Numbers On Each Night

The Homecoming dances, the first of the year, will be held this weekend. All arrangements have been completed. The orchestra has been secured, plans for beautifully decorating the armory have been made, and men have been chosen from each fraternity to represent their respective lodges in the figure.

Dick Jones and his University of Tennessee Collegians is a comparatively new band to this section of the country although the unit was organized two years ago at the U. of Tennessee. Since that time they have played college dates throughout that section of the country and up into Virginia and Kentucky. During the summer months the band made an extensive tour covering practically the entire South. During the summer of 1937 the band made a trip to Europe and during last summer they played at several beach resorts including Wrightsville, Isle of Pines, Fort Lauderdale, and one-night stands at many others. They appeared also at the “Tantilla Gardens” in Richmond, Va., for a three weeks’ engagement this past summer, and two weeks at “The Merry-Go-Round Supper Club” in Dayton, Ohio. The Collegians have been presented over both CBS and NBC on numerous occasions. They come to us for a set of dances after playing at Tennessee the past weekend.

“Melodic Tones Styled by Jones” is the theme heard over the radio when he broadcasts. This is obtained from the fact that he features the “Sell Tones” as his distinctive style. This combined with the sweet music will remind us of Dean Hudson. A special arrangement of “O, Davidson!” has been made. The band has also combined into a medley the songs of all the Davidson fraternities. Three vocalists are being featured and also a trio.

The following alternates have been selected to be in the figure: T. J. Turner, Pi Kappa Alpha; Cage Brewer, Phi Gamma Delta; Perry Sloan, Sigma Alpha Epsilon; Bill Boyd, Phi Delta Theta; Terrell Porter, Sigma Phi Epsilon; Jim Pratt, Kappa Alpha; Paul Cooper, Pi Kappa Phi; Julian Squires, Theta Pi; and Louis Hipp, Sigma Chi.

The Friday night dance will begin at 10:00 and the Saturday night informal will start at 8 o'clock. There will be four no-break dances on each night. The campus on the freshmen will be lifted Thursday night. Therefore all freshmen are cordially invited to attend the dances.

Magazine Will Appear Nov. 1

Articles Due in Tonight; Four Pages to Be Added

The definite publication date for the first issue of Scripts ’n Pranks has been set for Nov. 1 by Editor Rut Miller. The deadline for all material to be handed in is tonight, Wednesday, Oct. 19. The outstanding departments of last year’s magazine will be continued this year, and a number of new features will be started. For instance, Henry Baker writes a column on the movies and the College Pharmacy sponsors a mammoth joke contest.

The magazine this year is composed of 32 pages, four pages larger than last year’s editions. Contents list an article by Miss Ella Keen Steel, stories by Terrell Porter and Bob Ramsey, and the usual jokes. A feature of last year which is to be continued is the Poet’s Corner. The purpose of this column was to increase the interest in the writing of poetry within the Davidson student body. This year three new poets, Dave McLean, Bob Set [Continued on Page Five]

Dance Set

Davidson Men Organize New Alumni Group

First Permanent Chapter in Sumter County Headed By Dr. Chandler

A new alumni chapter of Davidson College was organized at Sumter, S. C., last Friday, at a meeting held before the Davidson-South Carolina football game. Dr. J. J. Chandler, Sumter physician, was elected president of the organization, Bey Alderman of Alcolu was elected vice-president, and John B. Duffie, auditor of Sumter County, secretary-treasurer. Dr. Oren Moore of Charlotte, a former president of the Davidson Alumni Association, made the principal address at the meeting, speaking on the college, the outstanding athletes that have attended school here during the last few years, and the athletic policy of the college. Dr. Moore was introduced by Conrad Frederick Smith, alumni secretary, who represented the college at the meeting. Dr. Julian Brice of Florence delivered the address of welcome, and Dr. G. W. Dick of the class of 1885, as the oldest alumnus present, was introduced. Representing the board of trustees was Dr. Hamilton McKay of Charlotte. This chapter is the first permanent organization of Davidson men in Sumter county. Several boys from that section are now at Davidson, and others have expressed their intentions of coming. The new chapter will aid in advertising the annual Davidson-South Carolina game, to be played each year as an attraction at the Sumter County Fair.

Several Seek Scholarships

Davidson Committees to Examine Applicants

Those Davidson students who will enter the state competition for Rhodes Scholarship this year will be announced in the next issue of Davidsonian. The names of the seniors who applied are now in the hands of the Scholarship Committee. This committee, composed of Dr. G. R. Vowles, Prof. H. T. Lilly, and Dr. W. P. Cumming, must approve these students before their names are turned over to the executive committee. After they have been given the approval of both faculty groups they are entitled to go before the state Rhodes Scholarship board. The applicants who are thus approved by the Davidson committee must send a written application to the state board giving certain personal information and statistics. In early December they will appear before the state committee for an interview along with the representatives of other colleges.

Collegians Play For Dances

“Melodic Tones Styled by Jones” will be the theme of the coming weekend when Dick Jones and his Collegians furnish music for the approaching dance set. They will also feature three vocalists, Eddie Davis, Gaylan Gwinn, and “Red” Watson. Although the band is relatively new in reputation it has been widely acclaimed throughout the East. They have held engagements at “Tantilla Gardens” in Richmond and at “The Merry-Go-Round Supper Club” in Dayton, Ohio.

Conference To Be Held

Professor Bailey to Attend Regional Meeting at Richmond Friday

Davidson’s representatives to the Regional Conference of the Association of American Colleges to be held in Richmond this week have a busy time judging from the extensive program prepared for them. Prof. J. C. Bailey, who will attend from Davidson College, is anticipating a full two days. On Friday, Oct. 21, F. W. Boatwright of the University of Richmond will preside over the first meeting. L. Seaton of Albion College will discuss “Federal Government and Education,” and the College will be debated upon by A. A. O'Leary of N. C. State and Georgetown respectively. At the dinner meeting that night, W. P. Boatwright will discuss “Social Sciences and the Curriculum” and J. R. McCain will talk on “Pressing Present Problems of Independent Colleges.” This meeting will be presided over by the president of Sweet Briar, Meta Glass.

Saturday, Oct. 22nd, W. P. Snyder will preside over the morning meeting. “Teacher Education” will be discussed by G. G. Holloway and C. T. McIntire. H. A. E. Chandler will talk on “The College and the Community,” and H. T. Clark will discuss “Fine Arts and the College.” The second meeting of that day will be presided over by E. S. Snavely and C. E. Snavely will talk on “The Colleges and the Social Security Act.” Throughout the entire meeting after each talk there will be a general discussion of the question before the delegates.

Phi Beta Kappa Bids Eleven Members Of Class of Thirty-Nine

Initiation and Banquet Address to Take Place Early In September

MORROW HEADS LIST

New Officers Elected in Davidson Chapter

Eleven members of the senior class were issued bids to Phi Beta Kappa, national scholarship fraternity, last Friday. Dr. P. H. Gwynn extended their bids to them publicly at the chapel service. These men are: M. E. Morrow, J. H. Reisner, Tooke White, L. W. Wilson, J. S. Evans, A. L. Page, C. W. Roberts, S. M. Hees, L. C. Brewer, and O. V. Armstrong.

M. E. Morrow, of Jacksonville, Fla., is a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity and the following honorary fraternities: Sigma Upsilon, Alpha Epsilon Delta, and Gamma Sigma Epsilon. His average is 96.80.

J. H. Reisner is from White Plains, N. Y., the president of Pi Kappa Alpha social fraternity, president of Le Cercle Francais, a member of Alpha Phi Epsilon, Sigma Pi Sigma, and the ’38 debate team. His four-year average is 96.60.

Locke White of Montgomery, Va., is a member of Kappa Sigma fraternity, president of the Honorary Fraternity Council, a member of Alpha Phi Epsilon, Gamma Sigma Epsilon, and the “Y” Cabinet. He has made an average of 96.40.

Sam Webb has made an average of 96.20.EEO NOTICES: Bands to give an average absolutely that all of 96.00. He is a member of the ict by the Newly elected members are to ensure pictures be made by then. Nappa Sigma social fraternity, is Davidson, Sam Newell, on the “Y" Cabinet, and a member of Delta Phi Alpha. He is from State Bandmasters To Exhibit Skill Saturday. W.S. Robinson of Matthews has made a school average of 96.00. These members will present a one-act comedy, “Cupidon Dentiste,” which promises to be quite an amusing skit. Other members will take part in the first act of “Wian- glais tel qu’on le Parle” which will be presented later on in the season. This will be the club's first production of the year. The Davidson Band, as customary, will represent Davidson College. A band composed of all the bandmasters in the states of North Carolina and South Carolina will attend the game and play to represent the visiting team. Each of the bandmasters will come in his individual uniform, and plans have been laid for them to arrive Saturday morning in time for a rehearsal before the game. This band will be directed by Mr. R. L. Sides, director of music in the Charlotte Public Schools and will sit on the Carolina side of the stands. Both bands are planning some unusual and novel formations. Definite information on the nature of them has been held back as a surprise.

It has been announced by Terrell Porter, chairman of the senior blazer committee, that a different method of selecting this year’s blazers will be followed. The sole persons who are to be allowed to participate in the Vous are those who have made a definite statement of intention of purchasing. Furthermore, in order to avoid complications which have arisen in former years, no orders for blazers will be sent off until a deposit has been paid by each student concerned. Several sample coats, as well as cloth samples, are expected to arrive before the end of the week. Immediately upon arrival, these samples, along with others obtained earlier, will be put on display at the student store. In this manner, the students will have not only the various types of cloth but also the cuts of their prospective blazers open to their inspection. The committee has been attempting to ascertain the opinions of the individual students as to their wishes concerning the numerals, D’s, and the style which they prefer. It is hoped that the blazers will be ready for their owners considerably sooner than last year. The vote will be taken in the very near future and the order sent off as much before November first as possible.

Rod Williams is from Atlanta. W. A. Page is one of Davidson’s commuting students. He has made an average of 94.90. Roberts from Bainbridge, Ga., is a member of Sigma Phi, having made an average of 94.90. Sam Newell is a member of Nappa Sigma social fraternity, International Relations, and Blade, the band team. He is vice president of the class and is from Marion, having made an average of 94.60. Cage Brewer is editor-in-chief of Quips and Cranks.

Chemists League Bids Members of Gamma Sigma Epsilon, honorary chemistry fraternity, will issue bids tomorrow to those juniors and seniors who have fulfilled the requirements for membership and have been voted into the organization. According to an announcement from Locke White, these students are required to have taken at least four semesters of chemistry with an average of at least B in that subject. Those who have complied with this requirement were voted on at a recent meeting of Gamma Sigma Epsilon. Dr. Sam B. Knight has been elected to honorary membership pending the approval of the national council.

Masquers Shift Play Dates The fall presentation of the Red and Black Masquers will be given Monday, Oct. 31, instead of Oct. 28, in order to avoid conflict with the Y. M. C. A. Fall Services. The program will consist of three one-act plays. “The Man in the Bowler Hat,” a comedy by A. A. Milne, will have the following cast: the hero, Dick Cobb; the bad man, Jim Currie; the Man in the Bowler Hat, Warren Gaw; the heroine, Virginia Hengeveld; Mary, John, her brother, Tom McLean. “The Valiant,” by Hall and Middlemack, will have a cast consisting of: Father Daly, Monroe Bush; Wilson, the jailor, Paul Crane; Dan, a jailor, Boyd Flynn; Josephine Paris, Kay Hood; James Dyke, the hero, Dick Hudson; Warden Holt, Charles MacArthur. “Where the Cross is Made,” by O'Neil, will have a cast including: Sue, Susie Jackson; Nut, Appice Means; Bartlett, Bob Powell; the doctor, Shaw Smith. E. J. Erwin, of the faculty, and Ed Morrow, president of the society, will direct the production. Tickets go on sale Oct. 17, and all seats will be reserved. Rows R and S of the senior section will be reserved for members of the faculty. Students are requested to purchase these in advance so as to get the best possible seats and to avoid the last-minute rush. The producers expect a large, enthusiastic audience. Other students who will have an active part in the production are Ken McIntyre and Gordon Horton. Horton will handle the scenery and stage decorating, and McIntyre will be chief stage mechanic.

Five Men Are Elected Neal Scott, Karl Hudson, Tom Perrin, Bob Ramsey, four juniors, and Gene Liipfert, a senior, were bid last week to membership in Sigma Upsilon, national honorary literary fraternity. The five students were elected to membership at a meeting held at the Kappa Alpha house Tuesday evening, Oct. 11. Business having been dispensed, the first program of the year was conducted, featuring contributions from Rut Miller and Jack Holland. Miller read a short story entitled “Rescue.” Holland read a paper on “Eighteenth Century England,” emphasizing the social aspects of the period. Sigma Upsilon recognizes achievement in English. Others at the meeting were: Rut Miller, Jack Holland, Bill Marquess, Sam Spencer, and Sam Newell, president of the group. Faculty members on hand were: [Continued on Page Two]