WEDNESDAY, APRIL 6, 1938. THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Three

Newspaper Sponsors For Scabbard and Blade Formal Ball Holds Pals In Colleges

Consensus of Opinion to Be Gathered From a Number of Colleges

Under joint sponsorship of the United Student Peace Committee and the Daily Herald, undergraduate newspaper of Brown University, a gigantic
survey of campus opinion including 1,200,000 students from 900 colleges throughout the nation is now under way, and a poll
will soon be taken at Davidson. The survey subjects of vital interest to every college man include the United States
in Europe, ROTC, the Far Eastern situation, Naval Expenditures, and the fundamental issue involved in the so-called Oxford pledge. The
United Student Peace Committee, along with the Daily Herald, are behind the project. Included in the group are the Foreign
Policy Association, the League of Nations Association, the National Intercollegiate Christian Council (director of “Y” work among the colleges), the
National Student Federation, the American Student Union, and the Fellowship of Reconciliation. The American Institute of Public Opinion and the
Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, as well as numerous college leaders, legislators, and organizations, have expressed interest in and approval
of the movement. Leaders in the survey, who feel that no one in the government could afford to ignore the
opinion of the nation’s students, want to know just what the future leaders of America think in regard to the
vital foreign affairs with which the United States is now concerned.

Jones Speaks To Hi-Y Group On Convention

The national Hi-Y convention at Berea College, Berea, Ky., was the subject of a talk made by Casey Jones to
the Davidson high school Hi-Y club Monday evening at the regular meeting. Jones, a Davidson freshman, is the director of
the Huntersville Hi-Y club. He told the local group of his trip in the summer of 1936 to the first
national convention at Berea, when he was a delegate from the Norfolk, Va., club. The national convention will be held
June 25-29, and the Davidson club is planning to send two delegates, probably members of the rising senior class at
the high school. Berea College, the scene of the next gathering, is near the population center of the Hi-Y. The
directors of the convention are expecting approximately a thousand boys from every state in the union and some foreign representatives.
The speaker explained that the gathering of boys from all over the United States was done in the effort to
further the work of the Hi-Y. The delegates hear speakers and carry on discussions about the many questions on youth.
Any member of a Hi-Y club may be a delegate, though the directors prefer boys who will be in high
school for at least a year after the convention and who are officers of their club. The first convention, with
an attendance of over 900 boys, was such a success that the directors have been planning this second gathering for
two years.

Leader of (Continued on Page 4)

Lingle Gives Address

Dr. Walter Lingle and Prof. E. A. Beaty will travel to Lancaster, S. C., next Sunday. Dr. Lingle will assist
in the dedication of the First Presbyterian Church of Lancaster and will deliver a short address in the afternoon. Dr.
Lingle will return and will deliver a sermon at the First Presbyterian Church in Durham last Sunday. He returned the
same day in order to be in Charlotte on Monday. In Charlotte, he made an address on Monday morning to
the Mecklenburg Presbyterian Ministers’ Association.

Hair Cuts DeLuxe Davidson Barber Shop

Dr. Grubb of England Delivers Vespers Talk

Life Story of C. T. Studd Basis of Talk

Dr. Norman P. Grubb, secretary of the World Wide Evangelistic Crusade, preached before a large vesper audience Sunday night. Dr.
Grubb, who was himself a missionary in the Belgian Congo for six years, cautioned that we are forgetting the realities
of the Bible. He based his talk on the life of C. T. Studd, a great Cambridge athlete, who later
became one of the greatest Christian leaders of all time. His book on the life of Mr. Studd is very
well known. He emphasized the fact that religion did not greatly influence either his life or C. T. Studd’s until
after their college days. Mr. Studd then decided to devote his life and his fortune to the Mission fields and
led a group of fellow graduates known as the “Cambridge Seven” to Africa. He led this mission until his death.
The Evangelistic Crusade has grown amazingly since its comparatively recent birth; and Dr. Grubb outlined briefly the plans for its
immediate future. There are about 130 missionaries in ten different fields all over the world. Dr. Grubb’s British accent provided
a refreshing contrast to our own southern speakers. His continental viewpoint was both interesting and enlightening, being particularly relevant to
the current global situation.

The above girls will be sponsors for the dance given by Scabbard and Blade Friday night in Charlotte. From left
to right, top row, Miss Charlotte McAden of Charlotte, with Captain Jim Wilson. Miss Leila Sutton of Anderson, S. C.,
with Captain Adjutant Springs Harr. Miss Jane Pierson of Charlotte with Captain Robert Theiling. Miss Virginia May Clark of Clarkton,
with Captain Feilding Clark. (Bottom row, left to right) Miss Nancy Hovis of Charlotte with Lieutenant Sam Cothran. Miss Sue
Batte of Concord with Fred Dennis. (Courtesy Charlotte Observer).

Alumni Clubs Celebrate Founder’s Day

Seventeen Chapters in Eastern Section Are Observing This Day

Seventeen Alumni Association chapters all over the eastern section are celebrating Founder’s Day.

Science Films To Be Shown

The physics and chemistry departments will present two films on Thursday night. The pictures are titled “Eyes of Science.” The
films are provided and sent out by the Bausch and Lomb Optical Company.To the Commerce Club in tion of the
United States are celebrating “Founder's Day” this week and next week. Although Founder's Day is April 12, festivities started in
New York March 25. Yesterday, April 5, Dr. Oren Moore of Charlotte, Gene McEver, and Fred Smith went to Atlanta
to speak at the celebration there. The Memphis chapter also had its meeting yesterday.

Gene McEver, Flake Laird, and Fred Smith will speak at a smoker to be held in Winston-Salem Friday, April 8.
In Gastonia, the Gaston County chapter will hear Fred Smith and others next Monday. Prof. E. A. Beaty will speak
in Greenville on Tuesday, April 13.

Mr. Ovens, considered one of the foremost men in the field of retail merchandising, has been an ardent supporter of
Davidson College and has delivered a great many addresses on the campus in the past. However, next Wednesday will mark
the first time that he has ever spoken to the Commerce Club, which has been organized only this year. President
Henry Harkey stated that at this meeting officers for next year would be nominated and Torrey McLain, chairman of the
social committee, will submit plans for the spring outing.

Both of these films were shown in Davidson several years ago and since the great majority of the students now
in school have not seen them, they are being given a return showing. It is due to the universally interesting
nature that they are being repeated. The final announcement as to the date of the showing will be made in
chapel. The science departments announce also that they have scheduled three films to be shown on the twenty-second of this
month and three to be shown on the twenty-ninth. The names of three of the pictures will be “Sulphur,” “There
Is Only One,” and “Heritage.”

(Continued on Page 6)

The New ‘BARREL’ Sleeveless Pullover Sweater
Light Weight All Wool
National Shirt Shops
COAST TO COAST
On the Square -:- Corner Trade and Tryon Streets
Charlotte, N. C.

King Chosen Leader
Bob King was elected president of the Young People’s Group of the Davidson Presbyterian Church last Sunday evening at the
regular meeting. Nelson Horton was elected vice-president, and Victor Hollis was re-elected treasurer. Bob King has been taking an active
part in the activities of the newly formed Scout Troop in Davidson, as well as many other groups. He is
a leader of the townspeople.

Cumming Granted Aid In Research
Dr. Cumming Will Visit Large Libraries in the East and Middle West

Dr. W. P. Cumming of the college English department has recently been awarded a Southern Grant-in-Aid by the Social Science
Research Council for the completion of his work in the study of historical cartography of the southeastern part of the
United States. Professor Cumming will visit ten or twelve of the large libraries in the east and middle west soon
in search of new material on the early period of free colonial development in the southeastern area. This will be
a continuation of a study in cartography to which he has devoted extensive research.

The Social Science Research Council, which made the Grant-in-Aid to Dr. Cumming, is made up of representatives from the constituent
organizations of the following National American Associations: anthropological, economic, historical, political science, psychological, sociological, and statistical. Through each year the
council gives grants for the completion of advance research projects by men who have (Continued on Page Six).

Student Goes To Convention
The local chapter of Alpha Epsilon Delta pre-medical fraternity was represented by Joe Bailey at the national convention in Chapel
Hill, March 24 through 26. Henry Cutchin, another member, also attended the convention. Dr. Charles F. Poe, professor of chemistry
at the University of Colorado, was elected president of the national organization, and Dr. K. P. Stevens, professor of biology
at Central College, Fayette, Mo., was elected grand vice president. Thursday evening a new chapter at Pennsylvania State University was
taken into the national fraternity.

Dr. Addison G. Brenizer of Charlotte gave a lecture illustrated by movies on the removal of goitre and the delegates
inspected the medical school and other facilities of the University and campus. The social side of the convention consisted of
a dance Friday night and a banquet Saturday evening.

COLIN MASTER MAGICIAN
ASSISTED BY
“Semi-Colin”
Presents HIS SHOW OF WONDERS
Admission: 25c
CHAMBERS AUDITORIUM
April 12 8 P.M.

Take Your Girl to The Dances IN A CAR Rented From M. P. HENDERSON
