WEDNESDAY, NOV. 2, 1938 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Three

Question of the Week

Though Mid-Winters, the big dance set of the year, is still over three months away, students have already begun to speculate upon whose baton will direct the music for the occasion. Much discussion has been going on as to whether the Pan-Hellenic Council should continue the former policy of securing a big name band. With this in mind, the Davidsonian chose this question: Would you rather have a big name band and pay more for the set ticket for Mid-Winters or would you rather have an average orchestra, paying less money for it?

Joe M. Liles, Sophomore:
By all means, let’s have a flight band for Mid-Winters! The four dance sets per year are practically the only social events here at Davidson, and we should therefore make them as big as possible. Even if the cost is ten or twelve dollars, the cost could be reduced by banning flowers. Recommendations: Benny Goodman and Artie Shaw.

Charlie Sample, Senior:
I think that Davidson should have one big time orchestra for Mid-Winters if the boys will support it. Smaller schools than Davidson have them, so why shouldn't we? Since our dances are limited, I think that the boys would be willing to support at least one big orchestra. Get a big one for Mid-Winters!

Rufus Allison, Sophomore:
I am very much in favor of having one big name orchestra a year and would undoubtedly pick Mid-Winters for that dance. I might add that I believe it only reasonable to prohibit the use of corsages for these dances in order to make it more possible for many students to attend them. We should remember that it is very hard for the Pan-Hellenic Council to sign up a good orchestra unless they are sure of the backing of the students.

Tommy Johnston, Sophomore:
At least one set ought to be larger and have a “big name” band. The price for a set of tickets for a better band is naturally higher, but one set a year would not strain anyone's pocketbook. If more students of Davidson would get interested in having a good band, the price of tickets would be lower and the set would be the leading social event of the year.

“Swifty” Ryburn, Senior:
A large band would be better, since it always has the best crowd and creates more enthusiasm for the whole affair. As for the price of the tickets, those that can afford the price of a small dance can also afford the price of a larger one, for it is not the price of a ticket that turns the crowd from the dance, but the price of the incidentals.

George Ficklen, Junior:
Davidson ought to have a top-flight band with a good name and record for the Mid-Winters dances. Since Mid-Winters are our biggest dances of the year, we need an orchestra suitable to the occasion. The slight extra expense of a first-class band will be more than taken care of by the extra enjoyment the students and their dates will get out of the excellent music and better dance set.

Winston Taylor, Sophomore:
I am in favor of a small band for Mid-Winters. After all, the success of the dance depends upon the presence of numerous young ladies, not upon the size of the orchestra. A large band is too expensive for a school the size of Davidson.

Frat To Give Dinner

The North Carolina Gamma chapter of Pi Gamma Mu, national honorary social science fraternity, will give a banquet Friday night in the banquet hall of Chambers Building, at which Dr. Charles A. Ellwood, speaker for the evening, will install the new chapter. Dr. Ellwood is a noted sociologist, having been professor of sociology at Duke University since 1930. He is the author of numerous books and has also contributed more than 100 articles to the Encyclopedia Americana. Dr. Ellwood has figured in many international congresses on sociology, and he is a member of “Who’s Who in America.” This is the third regular meeting of the chapter and the banquet will start at 6 P.M. Approximately sixteen persons are expected to be present.

Bill Davis Whips Around Flank For Five

WILDCAT GAIN—Bill Davis (35), triple-threat Davidson back, is shown above slicing around right end for a five-yard gain against Furman Saturday at Greenville as Wilson Hand (23) and Bill Johnston (40) block for him. Davis passed to Iverson and kicked the winning point in the fourth period as Davidson won, 13-12. (Courtesy Charlotte Observer.)

Dr. Shewmake Writes For “American Speech”

Shows Shakespeare’s Use of Southern Slang

“Shakespeare and Southern ‘You All’,” by Dr. E. F. Shewmake of the Davidson College English department, appears in the quarterly journal “American Speech” for October, 1938, it was announced today.

Colloquialism Doubted

In this article, Dr. Shewmake casts doubt upon the belief of certain scholars that “you all” as it is commonly used in the Southern United States in the sense of “you jointly,” “you as a family,” and so on, can be found in the plays of Shakespeare. He cites a number of passages often quoted in support of this belief and undertakes to show that not one of them can be regarded as indisputable evidence of Shakespearean use of “you all” in what is now called the Southern sense of the expression.

Leading English Journal

“American Speech,” edited by Professor Cabell Greet of Barnard College, Columbia University in New York City, is published by the Columbia University Press. It is regarded as one of the leading American scholarly journals devoted to English usage in the United States.

College News To Be On Air

Band to Present Regular Program Concert

The Davidson College radio program will again be on the air next Tuesday night at 9:15 for a fifteen-minute program over WBT. The program will consist of music by the Davidson Symphonic Band under the direction of Professor J. C. Pfohl, and college news which will be commented upon by Professor Thane McDonald. Professor McDonald will also do the announcing in the absence of “Rut” Miller.

The program will be as follows: “O, Davidson,” by Shields; “Washington Post”—March by Sousa; “Polka,” from “Schwanda,” by Weinberger; “The Bagpipe” by Weinberger; The news commented upon by Professor Thane McDonald. “Drink to Me Only with Thine Eyes,” an old English song; “Iowa Band Law”—March by K. L. King; “All Hail the Power of Jesus’ Name” by Holden; “O, Davidson,” by Shields. This will be the fifth in a series of Davidson College broadcasts which are scheduled to continue throughout the fall.

Play fair, be square, and you will find more sport in living and less fear of dying.

Davidsonian Finishes Book

Dr. Hillhouse Announces Publication Of Work

Dr. A. M. Hillhouse, recent addition to the Davidson College faculty, has just announced the publication of “The Call Feature in Municipal Bonds,” a book on which he did much of the work.

Hillhouse, an alumnus of Davidson who came here this year from the University of Chicago, stated that, “This booklet was prepared by me (at least in large part) as secretary of a committee set up by the Municipal Finance Officers Association, and published in February, 1938.” He added, “The purpose of the study was to ascertain whether or not municipal governments would profit, as have private corporations, from inserting the call feature in their bonds. The cost of including this feature, as reflected in a higher interest cost on the money borrowed, was balanced against the savings that might accrue to the issuing municipality by calling and retiring the bonds earlier than their maturity date, or by calling the bonds in a period of low interest rates and refunding the debt into bonds with a lighter interest burden.”

A Guide

“This booklet is intended as a guide to state and municipal fiscal officers whose functions include that of long-term debt planning. The possible savings to the taxpayer from use of the call feature are great provided investor and bond dealer opposition to this type of bond can be overcome. A chapter is devoted to outlining ways by which such opposition can be lessened.

“Interesting features of the study are the discussion of the statistical methodology which was used, and the appendices summarizing public and private corporation experience with the callable bond.”

Another book written by Dr. Hillhouse is “Municipal Bonds—A Century of Experience,” published in 1936 by Prentice-Hall of New York. This work, of which Hillhouse is the sole author, is a history of municipal bonds.tory of defaults on municipal bonds. Research on both of these studies was carried on through a grant of the Spelman Fund of New York, one of the Rockefeller Funds. Hillhouse has been associated for the last five years with the Municipal Officers Association. This group is a membership association of state and municipal finance officials such as state auditors, state comptrollers, city treasurers, and city comptrollers. Between five and six hundred state and city governments are represented in the group which has headquarters in the Public Administration Clearing House Building on the University of Chicago campus.

Victor, Brunswick, Decca, Vocalion Bluebird 35c—75c Each. Any record not in stock can be quickly secured. Phone 8257. PARKER-GARDNER CO. Pianos-Radios-Accordions—Since 1898 Charlotte, N. C.

Bands Invited To Play Here
Annual Band Day To Be Held At Wofford Game

Prof. J. C. Pfohl of the Music Department has announced that all the high school bands in both North and South Carolina have been invited to the Davidson-Wofford game this Saturday. They will arrive on campus around 1:30 Saturday afternoon, and will parade until game time. The bands that have accepted are: Rock Hill High School, Rock Hill, S. C.; Lancaster High, Lancaster, S. C.; R. J. Reynolds, Winston-Salem; John W. Harper, Winston-Salem; Charlotte Junior High, Harding High School, and Charlotte High, all from Charlotte. Also, Alexander Graham, Piedmont, Shelby, Kings Mountain, Berryhill, Gastonia, Monroe, Lincolnton, and Kannapolis. The Charlotte High band will perform at the half with the Davidson band in some special maneuvers prepared for the occasion. All bands will be seated in the Wofford stands, and will play intermittently during the various time outs and quarters. They will play en masse.

Med Students Asked To Sign Up For Test

Students who plan to enter Medical School during or before the fall of 1939 should apply immediately to Mr. F. W. Hengeveld in order that they may take the Association of American Medical Colleges’ Aptitude Test, which will be given in Room 124, Chambers Building, on December 2, 1938, at 2:00 P.M. This is the only opportunity Davidson students will have to take this test, and it is requested that all interested see the Registrar at once. A fee of one dollar will be charged to defray expenses.

A fool will tell you where to get off, while a wise man will help you to get back on.

It's a wise worm that stays under cover and deprives the early bird of his breakfast.

Moderator To Hold Vespers
Speaker Is Alumnus And Trustee Of Davidson

On Sunday, November 6, the regular Sunday evening vesper service will be led by the Rev. Dr. Watson M. Fairley, D.D.; this service will be held as usual in the College Chapel. Dr. Fairley, who is now moderator of the Presbyterian Synod of North Carolina, graduated from Davidson College in 1895, and he is now a trustee of the college. Dr. Fairley is coming to the Centre Church at Mount Mourne on November 6. There he will take part in the “Sesquicentennial Celebration of the Organization of the Synod of the Carolinas in 1788," in the morning and afternoon, and come to Davidson in the evening. The geniality of Dr. Fairley is well known by young and old throughout the State, and his gift for making friends quickly and easily is unexcelled.

Article Is Published

“The Union Seminary Review,” for October, 1938, contains an article, “In Spirit and in Truth, the Homing of the Spirit,” by Dr. K. J. Foreman of the Davidson College faculty. Originally a lecture, one of a series by several speakers, delivered last spring at the Assembly's Training School in Richmond, this paper deals in a general way with the values of worship. Since “God is to be met only on the roads He travels,” what are the conditions under which worship may be expected to have value and what results from worship at its highest level? “The Review” is a quarterly publication by Union Seminary in Richmond with the co-operation of the Southern Presbyterian Seminaries.

It’s every man’s business to know his business, and if he doesn’t know his business he hasn't any business to be in business.

GET YOUR DRUG ITEMS OR ACCESSORIES AT WHITE DRUG CO. Davidson, N. C. “DAVIDSON’S OLDEST AND BEST”

Philanthropic Hears Debates By Candidates
Literary Society Holds “Get-Acquainted” Social

A feature in the meeting of the Philanthropic Literary Society yesterday evening was a debate by eight candidates for membership. The subject for debate was, “Resolved: That the course pursued by the democratic powers at the Munich Conference was the wisest possible under the circumstances.” The speakers were: Bill Boyle, Eldridge Brown, Bob King, Chal Vinson, Dick Gammon, Nelson Pleasants, Gordon Riggan, and Ralph Harkey. All are upper-classmen. Approximately thirty candidates were at the meeting and the “get-acquainted” social. Ralph Harkey, chairman of the social life committee, was in charge of the plans. These candidates will prepare papers for presentation on November fifteenth, which will be judged by the membership and credits committee. In order to allow more complete participation in literary fields by old members, the club is planning a similar requirement for old members. Professor Henry T. Lilly will complete the judging.

Wade Boggs, YMCA secretary and a graduate in the class of '37, has accepted a bid to become an honorary member of the Philanthropic Society.

Sigma Upsilon Has Initiation
President Sam Newell Conducts Ceremonies

The Blue Pencil Chapter of Sigma Upsilon met at the Kappa Alpha fraternity house Tuesday night, October twenty-fifth for the purpose of initiating new members. The initiation ceremony was conducted by President Sam Newell. New men initiated were Tom Perrin, Karl Hudson, Gene Liipfert, Neal Scott, and Bob Ramsey. After the initiation, the program was opened with a short story by Karl Hudson entitled “Six and Four Make Ten,” which was followed by the paper “Method of Procedure in Writing a Sermon” delivered by Bob Ramsey. Next was a short story entitled “Correct Case of Mistaken Identity” read by Rut Miller. After the papers had been read, an interesting round table discussion was held for the purpose of correcting and lauding the writers. Refreshments were served and the meeting adjourned.

The surest way to be happy is to get so busy that you have no time to be unhappy.

If you suspect a man, don't employ him; if you employ a man, don’t suspect him.

Greenville Alumni Club Is Host For Tea Dance
Festivities Take Place After Davidson-Furman Football Game

The Davidson Dance Club, alumni chapter of Greenville, S.C., entertained Davidson students who attended the Furman-Davidson football game with a tea dance at the Hotel Poinsette ballroom, Saturday afternoon, five-thirty until seven-thirty. The dance was attended mostly by Davidson students, with only a few Furman students attending. The ballroom was beautifully decorated with red and black colors of Davidson, and purple and white streamers, Furman colors. The Davidson sponsors were Caroline Webster with John Latimer, Genevieve Mills with Pete Shackleford, Frances Campbell with Richard Taylor, Florida McBee with Hank Bahnson, Mary Frances Smith with Claude Hackney, and Leta Dupree with Buck Powell. Most of the girls were from Greenville Woman's College, the co-ed branch of Furman. An introduction committee was appointed so that the Davidson students might meet the girls from G. W. C.

Luke Cheney Plays Music

Music was furnished by Luke Cheney and his orchestra, and this band was dominant in the swing section. Jitterbugs ran the floor with everyone trying to learn the new little apple step, a dance introduced by some Furman students. There were two no-break dances.

Phi Gamma Delta and your officers:
Pres.—Fred Sair
Treas.—Cage Brewer
Rec.-Sec.—Gene Liipfert
Cor.-Sec.—Rut Miller

College Men should set the style in shoes this Fall, and if you visit us, you will wear Bostonian and Mansfield Shoes with:
@ THICKER SOLES
@ THICKER UPPERS
@ HEAVIER BACKS
@ BROWN
@ CHESTNUT BROWN
@ CORDOVAN

For Your Entire Wardrobe Visit Marion Davis Co. 205 S. TRYON STREET Charlotte, N. C.

DAVIDSON THEATRE
Davidson, N. C.

Wed., Nov. 2 “STRAIGHT-PLACE AND SHOW”
Thur.-Fri., Nov. 3 and 4 “STABLE MATES”
Mon.-Tue., Nov. 7 and 8 “BROTHER RAT”
Wed., Nov. 9 “CAMPUS CONFESSIONS”