Page Two ~ The Davidsonian ~~ Founded By the Class of 1915

1937 Member 1938
Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON Ave New York, N.Y
Chicago - Boston - Los Angeles - San Francisco

Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd.

Editor in Chief
BILL MARQUESS

Business Manager
CHARLES MOORE

America Favors Peace...

The other day the Institute of Public Opinion stated that it had acquired statistics proving that 69 per cent of
a cross-section of the American people favor unqualified neutrality as the wisest course for the United States to follow. Even
more pertinent is the fact that 20 per cent stated that they believed it had been a mistake for us
to enter the last war. Today while we turn our eyes toward peace programs which college students are supporting enthusiastically,
we find that a recent survey of student opinion on peace reveals that American students do not approve of consumers’
boycott against Japan, collective security, or participation in a foreign war. According to the Creightonian, published by Creighton University, 23
colleges in 18 states were contacted for this survey with a total of 9,858 votes recorded.

THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, MAY 4, 1938

With all this sunshine, spring air, and stuff, most of us inclined to lie around and take things easy, and
I'm no exception as this column evidently shows. With all the nudes flopping around every afternoon — the sun absorbers
and softballers — certain scenes from Thorne Smith's “The Bishop's Jaegers” — which you oughta read — become somewhat real,
though nowhere near to the exactness of Smith due to lack of the feminine element. However, we do have the
sun, and before long we'll all be ale-goldened Apollos, admirably tinted for a proud strut to flattering music of female
gushes and titters — “Oh! What a Gr-rand King For A Day By CHUBBY KING.”

Bob Gish, Jim Wilson, Bull Boyd, and Wade Barrow also aiding in the festivities with cries of “The Old Fashioned
for Us...”

A suggestion is here proffered to the aspiring young violinist in West dorm who delivers impromptu afternoon concerts... If you're
auditioning, we don’t use fiddles in our band; if you're practicing, let's take that string box somewhere else, far far
away from the dormitories... Maybe to Crooks and Reid’s “Rat Run” where you could probably do the impossible — eliminate
the rodents.

The house parties start this coming weekend, and ODK should be congratulated for providing the satisfactory medium between the faculty
and students. The medium should be continued in some definite manner — an authorized committee composed of faculty and student
representatives whose only function would be to keep in balance the relation between the faculty and students. Dissatisfaction on both
sides could be eliminated practically by such a committee. This is not a new suggestion, but still the idea has
never been developed.

Football De-Emphasized...

The University of the South, better known to most of us as Sewanee College, recently took a step in the
athletic world that may soon be followed by many small institutions all over the country. In a recent address before
the Student Body, Dr. Alex Guerry, newly elected vice-chancellor, called for the abandonment of one “big-time” sport in favor of
a more comprehensive sports policy for the entire group of students.

Davidson is in much the same position with regard to intercollegiate football as Sewanee. It is in the Southeastern Conference,
where it is about as much at home as a rabbit in a dog kennel. It refuses to put the
emphasis on football that its larger neighbors do, and consequently takes a beating on the gridiron from them several Saturdays
each fall. Therefore, the Chancellor sounded a cry for new tennis courts, a golf course, better intramural facilities, and more
playing fields for more sports in place of the expensive football program.

We are not advocating that Davidson cut football from its intercollegiate schedules. Far from it. But the Wildcats may be
faced with such a choice sometime in the next few decades if football continues to become a professional sport. Contrary
to the notion that football supports all the other sports, more and more colleges are finding every year that the
net profit realized from the football season is very small. It should be recognized that Dr. Guerry’s suggestion is not
for eliminating intercollegiate competition, but rather to bring it within a plane where colleges of equal strength may face each
other. It favors the development of more sports such as crew, lacrosse, gymnastics, fencing, tennis, and golf rather than the
major sports. It is an attempt to offer a broad enough sports program that all may participate for the fun
of the game. It also advocates the development of more playing fields, tennis courts, and intramural facilities for use by
all in place of specialized and expensive equipment for the use of a few.

I-Will Organization...

Remember two years ago when the “Veterans of Future Wars,” who asked for their bonuses in advance, was founded at
Princeton? Last week one of our Southern schools took the limelight when two Emory University students with a zest for
bloody burlesque organized the “Institute for International Ill Will” and began advocating war right away. Its object is to organize
other chapters all over the world to help burlesque modern war and international diplomacy. One of its first acts was
to draw up a telegram for Adolph Hitler, advising him “to quit stalling and fight Austria.” Two wire companies, not
being so belligerently inclined, refused to send it. Undaunted, our exponents of ill-will camouflaged a bit and drew another draft
which has been reported accepted by one of the companies. It read, “We are all behind you and the eight
ball. We recommend Austria for your growing pains.”

In regard to the popularity of compulsory ROTC, the survey showed that an overwhelming majority of college students are opposed
to compulsory military drill in schools other than those which exist primarily for the purpose of military training.

In reference to a permanent policy for keeping America out of war, students down-voted the proposal of collective security by
a large majority, with the most unfavorable vote. In comparison with the results of the Survey on Public Opinion, the
percentage of students favoring unqualified neutrality is low, since the student poll registered only 39.2 per cent favoring neutrality, while
69 per cent was registered in the public opinion survey.

Senior Slants

If a man is to grow and develop, then change must be present. Change is desirable when the nature of
the man is cramped in such a way that it leads to dissatisfaction. Change that is to make a man
a better man must be the change that leads to still other changes toward a new and higher goal. Man
can choose his own goals and train his will on the reaching of the new goal. There comes with this
change a newfound peace of spirit and in order to find peace such as this it is necessary to have
some control as there is “no liberty without conformity to some rule.” The task of experience in the changing of
human nature is to...

Carnival week in Mooresville and the school treks over for kicks and squints — mostly the latter. Naomi the Snake
Charmer (friend of Broadway) completely captivated young hearts with weird gyrations and risqué remarks — Phillip Arrowsmith even momentarily forgot
Miss Woo (he made amends Monday night though with the night ride to Greensboro)... Ken Law at the University of
Illinois. The college of commerce and business administration has already collected more than 60,000 items for its library of historical
and ephemeral material relating to business. Officials of the department predict that in 100 years this collection will throw such
light on business of the past as has never been available in any collected form.

Schenectady, N. Y. — An extensive system of “honorary fellowships” is keeping Union College students and faculty members in close
touch with the “outside world.” Organized by President Dixon Ryan Fox, the fellows are leaders in literature, the theater, business,
government, fine arts, science, and engineering who make periodic three-day visits to the campus to address assemblies and meet informally
with students.Correct each interpretation of the will in the light of previous responses. New goals are set to offset the
errors of past experiences. We come to Davidson College mindful of its rules and give our tacit acceptance to them.
With this in mind, can we cast aside these rules even to the point of being dishonest just because we
do not approve of them?

In the past two issues of The Davidsonian, we have read several articles about little questions that are dishonest such
as having someone sit in your church or chapel seat, or answer roll in the classroom for you, or answer
roll call in ROTC for a friend, or take someone else's freshman cap because you have had yours taken (granted).
Davidson is interested in making THE MAN. A MAN is not dishonest nor unfair. We are growing into manhood. Let
us be MEN. As we look back over our years spent here, we will forever regret every deed of dishonesty
that we did while here. Our experiences at present are not what we as MEN of Davidson would like to
continue. It is up to those who will be members of the upper classes next year to see that these
little besetting sins do not take root. It is our prayer that the incoming class of freshmen will never know
that those who have gone ahead of them left such a record. We Seniors will not be here to discourage
it but to those that follow us there awaits a heavy responsibility. I realize that all of the evils are
not in the senior class, by any means, but I am thinking that when the responsibility is felt that you
will not try to tell others how to act unless you can set a good example. Men of Davidson! Be
MEN.

—MAJOR CLARK.

* * * * *

“It is not too much to say that forces playing on education from without, forces over which educators themselves have
little or no direct control, are making it necessary for educational institutions to redesign their goals.” University of Chicago's Prof.
Newton Edwards points an unwavering finger at one cause of what many call today's educational revolution.

Washington in a blaze of blushes and recurring sighs ... Frampton and Yates picked up by Converse girls and deposited
in barred rooms in Spartanburg. There is some bewilderment as to why Charlie Smith appeared at the tennis courts in
tails Saturday morning looking for a golf game (I wonder if this is true). I think DU quit.

Take It Easy
By Rut Miller

* * * * *

RECORDS—There were two records broken last week. At least we hope they are correct to date. The first was a
record in class attendance and is held by Marshall Davidson. It is shown by the books that he has only
one absence this semester and that is a cut in chapel and to top it off it is an excused
cut. The other was made last Saturday when Ned Iverson made his letter in track, thereby being the first three-letter
man in college at the present time. I know him.

New York City—Predicting an expanding future for the study and teaching of home economics in U.S. colleges and universities, Mrs.
Kathryn VanAken Burns, president of the American Home Economics Association, told a group here recently that “educators generally are placing
new emphasis on education for home and family living.”

“For a long time home economists have realized that their area of interest has much to contribute to successful living.
At last it seems to have occurred to administrators that almost everyone lives in a home and that within it
are established the ideals and ideas that largely guide that individual in later life,” she said. “It seems fairly safe
to say that home economics is going to be much more important in general education in the next ten or
fifteen years than it has in the past,” she predicted.

JOTTINGS ... Someone told a joke and Bull Durham said: “You've got me in stitches.”—Someone has left four cakes of
red soap down in our shower room. They smell good and lather swell.—The class in anatomy made several field trips
last week to a spot the other side of Mooresville for first-hand observation. A lab fee of forty cents was
required.—Overheard in Dago class: “Silence” is masculine in French; there is no such thing as feminine silence.—Ralph Johnson has adopted
a rule for credit haircuts: he leaves a very unsightly spot somewhere on the head until the man comes back
and pays, then he takes it off. What a brain.

* * * * *

Chicago, Ill—Northwestern University and the University of Chicago are still battling for the most beautiful co-ed honors, and the former
has won the first round. The battle started way back when some songwriter wrote something about “Northwestern for her pretty
girls; Chicago’s where they roam,” and the latest skirmish was prompted by this paragraph in a University of Chicago student
magazine: “There hasn't been a really beautiful woman around here since Little Egypt reared her skirts on the world’s fair
midway in 1893.” That started a hot argument, and the appointment of a beauty judging committee—and the committee, working from
photographs, selected Joy Hawley, a Northwestern co-ed, as the most beautiful on the Maroon Midway. After the announcement was made,
a wave of laughter roared from the Purple campus clear across Chicago to the Midway—and the judges hurriedly explained that
the photographer was at fault for putting a Wildcat co-ed’s picture in with the group vying for honors at the
university that Rockefeller built.

* * * * *

Spring vacations have always been mighty bothersome for college officials ever since the earliest days of our oldest institutions. Witness
this edict passed by the Princeton University board way back on Sept. 12, 1759: “Whereas, there is a peculiar Disposition
in the Students to go home some Days or Weeks before the May Vacation and the President is Obliged to
spend near half his time for almost a month before to hear a great Variety of Pleas and pretenses for
that End: and often times half or more upon a Variety of Pretenses have got Liberty to go home before
the time appointed which is attended with many Inconveniences: “It is ordered that this Practice be prevented for the time
to come, and that none be allowed to go home at that time unless by Reason of Sickness or some
such extraordinary Occasion, and that no Pretenses be made that a Horse is sent unless there be also a letter
from the parents or Guardian to the President Signifying some extraordinary Reason for it. And that such Students Transcribe this
Order and send it to their Parents or Guardians some months before the Vacation.”

* * * * *

THUMB NAIL SKETCH—Short, bespectacled, curly-headed. This demon of the gridiron, this fearless divulger of the news, this idol of the
maids when he leads his band, this champion non-sleeper, walks and mingles amongst us mortals every day and we, we
accept him as one of us. Is known in student store circles as a milk drinker extraordinary. Drags a certain
Greensboro lass to most of the dances. Has recently accepted a job for summer at a fashionable resort on the
coast of Maryland. A Kappa Sig as if I need to put anything more after I said he led a
band. After this by-gosh if he doesn’t put my name in his column there ain't much to him.

PARTING SHOT—Maybe the reason the cavity feels so large when you've had a tooth extracted, is because it is natural
for the tongue to exaggerate.

AKERS HEADS BEAVERS
(Continued from Page 1)
ciency in the coming year. The retiring officers of the year have done a lot to bring the club back
to its former high standing. These men are: Tom Abbott, president; Sam Newell, vice president; Henry McConnell, secretary-treasurer; and Addison
Long, chairman of the constitution committee.

BUSINESS CLUB
(Continued from Page 1)
Club on last Wednesday, Mr. J. H. Bridges, president of the Merchants Association of Charlotte, was the speaker for the
evening. He discussed the problems of the college man entering business and his talk was a helpful supplement of the
“Y” vocational lectures.

All Latest HITS On Your Favorite RECORDS
Come in to Hear Them
HAMMOND ORGAN
STEINWAY PIANO
ANDREWS MUSIC CO.
231 N. Tryon Street
Charlotte, N. C.

SPENSER BROS. CAFE & DINING ROOM
“WHERE FRIENDS MEET TO EAT”
For Frat. Parties - Capacity 90 People
MOORESVILLE, N. C.
