Page Six | Your Film Report Card by HENRY B. BAKER

The quality of each picture is described by the number of stars. All ratings are strictly objective and are based
on the general interest.

Wednesday, March 16
THE GREAT GARRICK
Starring Brian Aherne, Olivia de Havilland, and Edward Everett Horton. This three-star theater will bring you the drama and comedy
of the great actor David Garrick.

Thursday, March 17
NOTHING SACRED
Starring Fredric March, Carole Lombard, and Walter Connolly. This three-star film is a satirical comedy about a small-town girl who
is mistakenly believed to be dying.

Saturday, March 19
DAUGHTER OF SHANGHAI
Starring Anna May Wong, Charles Bickford, and Larry Crabbe. This two-star film is a crime drama featuring an Asian-American heroine.

Monday-Tuesday, March 21-22
GOLDWYN FOLLIES
Starring Adrea Leeds, Kenny Baker, Helen Jepson, and the Ritz Brothers. This three-star musical comedy includes Charlie McCarthy and is
described as "very intellectual" by Ina Ray Hutton.

A MAN IN THE HOUSE!
Economy Trading
Stationery, Toilet Articles
SOUTHERN 5¢ & 10¢ Store

THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 16, 1938

TEACHERS HAVE VALUABLE COLLEGE BASKETBALL TEAM
THE TEAM HAS AN AVERAGE HEIGHT OF SIX FEET, AND HAS SERVED AS AUDITOR OF HARVARD UNIVERSITY FOR MORE THAN
51 YEARS. HIS ACCOUNTS COVER OVER A MILLION DOLLARS A MONTH!

If the books judged by the National Scholastic Press Association were stacked in one pile, they would reach as high
as the Empire State Building!

Beaver Club Meets For Reorganization
The newly formed Beaver Club held a meeting last Thursday night, at which time several steps were taken to make
the club more organized. A committee was appointed to draw up a constitution for the organization. The committee, headed by
Addison Long, will examine the constitution of the Beaver Club and, with that as a basis, will draw up a
new document to govern the club. Also, a new social function was discussed, and it is hoped that the club
will be able to have a house party in the spring. The meeting time was decided upon, and the club
will meet every other Thursday night.

Stair Elected Student Body President (Continued from Page 3)

Glee Clubbers Have (Continued from Page 3)
Presbyterian Church

When the host of the house in which Don Bosque and Jim McDonald were staying picked up the Bible at
the breakfast table and read, "And He fed the hungry," it was a moment of inspiration.

Prof. Patton Speaks (Continued from Page 3)

Philanthropic Holds (Continued from Page 3)

Professors Make Talk (Continued from Page 3)

DAVIDSON THEATRE
Saturday—March 19
Monday-Tuesday—March 21-22
Wednesday—March 23
"Nothing Sacred"
"Daughter of Shanghai"
"Goldwyn Follies"

Kiwanis Hears Horine
Field Horine of the Davidson senior class spoke last Thursday at the weekly Kiwanis Club luncheon at the Chamber of
Commerce in Charlotte. Horine’s talk included Adolf Hitler's rise to power in connection with the economic conditions of Germany. He
expressed the opinion that the American people should make a deeper effort to try to understand Germany of today. Horine
has recently studied at universities in Heidelberg and Bonn and has been in a position to observe German economic and
political questions.

Three Groups Make (Continued from Page 5)A quartet, composed of Bob Lewis, McDonald, Mawhinney, and this Dick Hamilton, sang at
Wats service. James Davidson, representative to Charlotte, spoke to a group of boys there on “Night Life Bible” last Sunday.

Hudson Band Varies (Continued from Page 1)
The Clubmen have played and sung over a majority of the southern broadcasting stations. They have broadcast directly over more
than twenty-five radio stations in the past year or so. Out of 590 colleges and universities in the US and
Canada, 208 offer either radio courses or extracurricular instruction.

Missing! Dr. Carlton Palmer, noted art critic and lecturer, was scheduled to speak here last Friday night but failed to
appear. As yet, the faculty committee on lectures has received no word from him.

Dr. Lingle Preaches
President Walter L. Lingle took the pulpit of the First Presbyterian Church of Spartanburg last Sunday. The former pastor of
this church has moved to Texas, leaving his church temporarily without a minister, and Dr. Lingle was asked to take
his place last Sunday. Dr. Lingle conducted both the morning and night services of the church. He was accompanied on
this trip by Wade Boggs, “Y” secretary.

Foucault Pendulum Will Be Installed By College
The peculiar instrument determines Earth’s rotation. It soon became evident that the plane in which the pendulum vibrated deviated toward
the right with reference to the floor—that is, in reality, the floor was turning under the pendulum, or the earth
was rotating. By the time of spring holidays, the college, through the science department, plans to have a Foucault Pendulum
erected in the northern end of Chambers building. This instrument will be placed for the benefit of the students, and
also in particular for the meteorology students to study. The pendulum, invented in 1851 by a French physicist, Foucault, will
be 46 feet high. It has been found that if one is less than 25 feet long, it will not
show or give the desired effect. It will write in a bed of sand. This apparatus will work anywhere on
the earth’s surface except on the equator. It works best at the two poles. At the equator, the pendulum would
continuously cut the sand at the same angle and no shift would occur.

Newark University officials this month opened a drive for an endowment of $1,000,000 to meet pressing financial needs.

“Boy! I can breathe now!” Just a few drops of Vicks Va-tro-nol up each nostril reduces swollen membranes, clears stuffiness,
and brings prompt relief. Used in time, it helps prevent many colds.

VICKS VA-TRO-NOL
REGULAR SIZE 30c . . . DOUBLE QUANTITY 50c

That’s the watchword for Chesterfield tobaccos. Here’s the reason so many smokers like Chesterfields. Thousands of casks of mild ripe
Chesterfield tobacco are kept in storage all the time—every pound of it aged for 2 years or more to give
Chesterfield smokers more pleasure.
