1 APS on /. 4 AN? c S 9 , e ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS Z528 VOL. XXVI DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 14, 1938 No. 13

Cabinet To Close Christmas Boxes After Tomorrow
Offering Will Be Donated To Biederwolf Leper Colony This Year

Boxes for the 1938 Christmas Gift Fund, which will go to the Biederwolf Leper Colony in Korea, will be closed tomorrow afternoon. Envelopes were placed in all dormitory rooms Tuesday in order to remind students of the offering. The envelopes may be used to put a cash offering in or as a pledge blank. The “Y” Cabinet has announced that there will be no canvassing for contributions this year. For those unable to pay now and who wish to make an offering, they may write a pledge amount which they wish to give. Then they may pay that amount immediately after the holidays. The goal for the offering this year has been set at eight hundred dollars. The boxes will be taken up tomorrow and the amount of the offering will be announced Friday.

A new plan is in operation this year in regard to the gift fund. In former years various kinds of canvassing have been tried. However, this year there has been no canvassing at all; the offering will therefore be an entirely free-will gift. There have been many and varied comments on this plan but the “Y” Cabinet has faith that the plan will be successful. The subject has been kept before the student body through talks in chapel. According to all reports, the Leper Colony is doing fine work and is very worthy of the gift. The actual use to which the money will go is toward the erection of homes for lepers who have been cured of the disease and yet are unable to live in their native villages because they will not be admitted back into society on account of their scarred appearance.

Plans Made For Socials
Class Of 1939 Expects To Entertain Faculty Members In Spring

For the purpose of promoting a general better feeling between seniors and faculty, the class of ’39, at a business smoker Thursday evening, December 8, unanimously decided to hold a faculty-senior day next spring. Definite plans will be made in February when the faculty members will be invited to join in a stag-smoker with the seniors to arrange details for this day. Class president Sam Newell has announced that the celebration next spring probably will include an athletic competition in the afternoon between seniors and professors and a barbecue supper or some other type of feed at night.

President Newell appointed as a committee to make plans for this event, Ovid Bell, chairman, Shaw Smith, and Oscar Armstrong. Three other new committees were announced at the meeting. Dan Walker is chairman of a smoker committee. He, with Walt Heilman and Wilson Northcross, will arrange for the refreshments and entertainment at senior meetings. Charlie Roberts, chairman, and Jack Tillotson will take charge of the invitations for graduation. Gene Liipfert has been appointed to draw up any resolutions which will be discussed during the year at class meetings. The seniors unanimously adopted a proposed class budget presented by treasurer Addison Long. Class dues will be collected through the office of the college treasurer along with the regular college fees. They also adopted a resolution thanking the administration and alumni association for the blanket invitation to attend the alumni luncheon Homecoming day. At the completion of class business the seniors were entertained with music by the new Carnegie record set.

Men Leave For Rhodes Interviews
Candidates Try For Appointments In Several Neighboring States

Candidates from Davidson College for the Rhodes Scholarships are leaving this week to various points in the neighboring States where they will be interviewed by selected committees.

N. C. Meet on Tuesday

Candidates for the appointments of the State of North Carolina left Monday for Chapel Hill where they were interviewed by the North Carolina Rhodes Scholarship committee at 1:45 P.M. Tuesday in Graham Memorial Hall. These candidates were Wade Boggs, Davidson '37; S. C. Webb, '39; Watson Street, '38; R. A. Torrey, '39; W. A. Page, '39; J. H. Reisner, '39; and Richard Vowles, '38. Jack Branch, '37 and Rodman Williams, '39 will be interviewed by the Georgia Committee in Atlanta on December 15. Cage Brewer, '39 left Monday for Jackson, Miss., where he will convene with a committee on December 15. M. E. Morrow '39 left Sunday for Jacksonville, Fla., to be interviewed there on December 13. Fred Stair, '39 left Sunday for Tennessee where he will meet with the Tennessee Committee. Locke White, '39 left today for Lexington, Ky., where he will be interviewed on December 15.

The States are divided up into districts for these selections; there being 6 States to a district. Each State appoints 2 men making 12 for each district. The eight districts will meet on December 17th to make the final selections. This allows 1 out of 3 who receive State appointments to get the final position. Thirty-two of these appointments are made annually throughout the United States. An interlocking system of committees is employed in interviewing the men who have received recommendations from their institutions. The district committees make the final selections from those who have received appointments from their State committees.

Unity Church Plans Service
Organization Arranges Christmas Worship

Under the leadership of Watson Street, capable pastor, the Davidson Unity Church has made elaborate plans for the Christmas season. The Christmas worship will open next Sunday when Mrs. W. R. Gray will tell the story of the “other wiseman” to the children of the Sunday School.

Christmas Tree

On Christmas Eve at seven o'clock the members of the church will gather around a beautifully decorated community tree. At this time a short worship service in connection with Christmas will be held; and about one-hundred and fifty bags of fruit, candy and toys will be distributed to the children of the church. A highlight of the evening will be a visit by Santa Claus, who will distribute personal gifts to the members of the church.

Sunday morning the entire congregation will take part in a carol service, and the regular classes will be held. The pastor's sermon will be taken from some theme concerning Christmas. The entire church will be decorated in white with white flowers banked around the pulpit. At some time during the service the offering envelopes for the coming year will be distributed. Sunday night a Christmas Cantata (Continued on Page Six)

Mid-Winters Maestro

After a period of anxious expectation, Davidson students were at last presented the name of the orchestra that would play for this year’s Mid-Winters. Hal Kemp will bring his band here for the occasion, but contrary to custom he will play only for the Saturday dances; another band will be secured for Friday.

YMCA Yuletide Vespers Are Presented Sunday
Miss Katheryn Swain Is Guest Soloist At Christmas Service

Sunday night, December 11, the annual Y.M.C.A. Christmas vesper service was held in Chambers auditorium, the service beginning at 7:30 instead of the usual vesper time, 6:30.

Auditorium Decorated

The darkened auditorium was lighted entirely by candles. The stage was decorated with cedar trees and cedar boughs, and in the back center of the stage was a tall cedar at whose top was a large star. The music for the program was furnished by the Davidson College music organizations, the Symphonic Band, the Little Symphonic Orchestra, the Glee Club, and the Quartet. Guest soloist was Miss Katheryn Swain of Winston-Salem. Prior to the vespers the horn section of the band played Christmas Carols from the platform of Chambers Building.

Kenyon Reads

The service opened with “Lift Up Your Heads” from “The Messiah,” by Handel. The Glee Club then sang a chorale “Break Forth, O Beautious, Heavenly Light,” by Bach. Sherrard Rice, President of the Y. M. C. A. led the audience in prayer and the audience sang the hymn “O, Come All Ye Faithful.” Richard Kenyon read selected Scriptures illustrating the prophecy, the Birth, and the Adoration of Jesus. After the selection of prophecy the quartet rendered “Softly The Night Is Sleeping,” by Warner. In connection with the birth Miss Kathryn Swain sang “O Holy Night,” by Adams, and after the selection of adoration the Glee Club gave “Angels O’re the Fields Were Flying,” an old French Carol. The entire audience, led by the Glee Club and orchestra, then sang some

Committee Begins Task
Object Is To Discuss Matters Of Student And Faculty Concern

The recently proposed committee for student-faculty relations has been organized and has begun its work. The object of this committee is to discuss matters of interest to the entire school, and to present unbiased opinions on both sides of any case that may arise. The committee is composed of Dr. Brown, Dr. Gwynn, and Professor Fleagle, faculty members; and Fred Stair, Warren Gaw, Sam Newell, Gales McClintock, and “Hank” Bahnson. For purposes of deliberation these members work as one committee with Sam Newell as chairman; and for the purpose of voting it is divided into two sub-committees. One of these is the Faculty Committee whose Chairman is Dr. Brown, and the other is the Student Committee whose chairman is Sam Newell.

Meetings are held on Thursday night at 9 o'clock, when needed. These meetings are conducted in an informal manner. There will be more news concerning the work of the Committee in later issues.Of the more popular Christmas Carols. Among them were “Joy to the World,” “It Came Upon The Midnight Clear,” “Silent Night,” and “O Little Town of Bethlehem.” The “Hallelujah Chorus” from “The Messiah,” by Handel was then played by the Symphonic Band and Dr. W. L. Lingle closed the service with a benediction. The vespers were attended by one of the largest crowds in years. The entire auditorium and balcony were filled and extra seats were used.

Group Hears Papers

Eta Sigma Phi, national honorary fraternity for students interested in Greek and classical literature, met at nine o'clock on Monday night in the Social Center. Stitt Robinson, president, presided over the meeting. A paper was read by Tommy Wells and also one by Bob Ramsey. Bob Ramsey’s paper was prepared by Fred Stair, who was unable to attend the meeting. This paper was in the form of a comparison. The modern game of football was compared with the ancient spectacles of the old Roman and Classical times. This was the last meeting of Eta Sigma Phi before the Christmas holidays.

Kemp and His Orchestra Secured By Pan-Hellenic As Mid-Winters Feature

Fred Smith Ends Work In Davidson

Has Accepted Temporary Position With The Vick Chemical Company

After serving two and a half years as alumni secretary and publicity director of Davidson, Conrad Frederick Smith will end his work at the college with the Christmas holidays. Smith has accepted a temporary position with the Vick Chemical Company of New York and will probably move to that city sometime after the first of the year. In a statement issued to The Davidsonian, President Walter L. Lingle said that the alumni office and publicity department would be operated through the voluntary services of members of the faculty and administrative staffs and the students who have been working there this year. Dr. Lingle further said that a lack of financial support, which has caused a drain on the college’s treasury, was a reason for the temporary abolition of the alumni secretaryship. The college is now unable to bear such expense.

Alumni Secretary Smith, a native of Trenton, Tenn., graduated from Davidson in 1926. While here he was a member of both varsity football and track squads. He edited The Davidsonian during his senior year and was tapped into Omicron Delta Kappa leadership fraternity. After his graduation, he entered the newspaper field, serving on the staff of the Nashville Tennessean, the Charlotte Observer, and the Gastonia Gazette. For five years he was editor and general manager of the Athens, Georgia Daily Times. Fred was in Columbia, S.C., as correspondent for several dailies and as a member of Gov. Olin D. Johnston's official personnel when he was called to Davidson in the fall of 1936 to succeed Martin. While here he has aided in the organization of several alumni chapters and in building up a large publicity bureau. At present, he is engaged in winding up numerous affairs in the college alumni office, and he will spend the holidays at his home in Trenton before taking up his new work.

Senior Coats Have Arrived

Tate-Brown Is Handling Blazers This Year

The personification of Esquire’s example of modern collegiate wear may be seen roaming the campus these days in the person of any member of the Senior Class. These nattily attired gentlemen are wearing the new 1939 Class Blazers which arrived Monday. T. P. Porter, chairman of the Blazer Committee, states that those who haven't gotten their coats as yet should go to Tate-Brown in Charlotte and get them as soon as possible. Approximately forty seniors purchased this tan camel’s hair creation of Tate-Brown. The coats are three-buttoned, single-breasted, drape models. This year’s edition, as in former years, fulfills a “blazer’s” purpose, in setting apart the members of the Senior Class as distinctive from the rest of the Student Body. The Senior Blazer Committee, appointed by Sam Newell, president of the Senior Class, consisted this year of T. P. Porter, chairman, K. V. Lawson, and J. M. Pratt. They started functioning last Spring when they started collecting samples of material for the coats. In November they took a vote by questionnaire, and the coat was selected from this vote.

Morris Plays In Second Set

Christmas Set Of Dances Led By “Skeets” Morris And Cavaliers

“Skeets” Morris and his Auburn Cavaliers played for the second dance set of the year at the Charlotte Armory last weekend. The Christmas set included four dances, a tea dance Friday and Saturday afternoon, a formal dance Friday night, and an informal dance Saturday night. The formal dance was featured by the regular Friday night figure in which members of the Pan-Hellenic Council, alternates from each fraternity, and their dates participated. The figure was led by Miss Tiny Waddill and Ray Pittman, Kappa Sigma, president of the Council. Others who participated in the figure follow: Miss Hilda Graham Roberts, with Mark Lillard, Phi Delta Theta; Miss Elizabeth Mendenhall, with Eugene Liipfert, Phi Gamma Delta; Miss Martha Alexander with Addison Long, Pi Kappa Alpha; Miss Margaret Ivey, with Bob Gish, Pi Kappa Phi; Miss Mae Hoffman with Eddie Steere, Beta Theta Pi; Miss Rebecca Tucker with Tom Mullen, Sigma Phi Epsilon; Miss Jacqueline Ray with Dick Taylor, Kappa Alpha; and Miss Anne Barrett with Lem Kornegay, Sigma Alpha Epsilon.

Those who were in the figure with alternates from each fraternity were Miss “Tibbie” Dooley with Jimmy Cooper, Kappa Sigma; Miss Louise Fant with Bill Beatty, Phi Delta Theta; Miss Janie Knox with John Kennedy, Pi Kappa Alpha; Miss Aileen Long with Bidwell Ivey, Pi Kappa Phi; Miss Katherine Currin with Julian Squires, Beta Theta Pi; Miss Sybil Trexler with Ed Watson, Sigma Phi Epsilon; Miss Julia Scott Newell with Sam Newell, Kappa Alpha; Miss Mary Louise Siewers with Mark Cauble, Sigma Alpha Epsilon; and Miss Ann Wiley with Ken Darby, Phi Gamma Delta. These were the last dances before February 10th and 11th, when Hal Kemp and his orchestra will play for the annual Mid-Winter Set.

Plans Are Now Underway To Secure Another Name Band For Friday

ANNOUNCED BY PITTMAN

Dances Set For Second Week In February

Hal Kemp and his orchestra will play for the Saturday dances during this year’s Mid-Winter Set, the Pan-Hellenic Council has announced. Diverting from the custom of previous years, the Council has decided that they will secure two bands for this set, one to play Friday and the other to play Saturday. In former years one big band was secured to play for all four dances. Negotiations for Kemp were completed last week, and Ray Pittman, president of the Council, announced the selection in chapel Saturday morning. He and another representative of the Council had made a trip to New York City to investigate what bands were available. The band for Friday's dances has not been announced as yet, but Pittman has promised the student body that it will be another name orchestra.

Hal Kemp, who is a Charlotte boy, organized his band during his school days at the University of North Carolina. When he graduated at that institution the members of the orchestra followed him. During his rise to national prominence, the first attracted attention at the Blackhawk Restaurant in Chicago, the same spot where another Carolina graduate, Kay Kiser, played sometime later. Kemp's orchestra includes Judy Starr as vocalist. This year marks the fourth straight year that Davidson has had a big-name orchestra to play for Mid-Winters. Freddie Martin was presented in 1936, Jan Garber in 1937, and Bunny Berigan played here last year. This year’s set will take place next February 10-11, in the Charlotte Armory. Kemp was secured by the Council through the Music Corporation of America.

Professors Hear Talks

Fulcher, Porter, Thies Represent School At Richmond Meeting

Professors H. E. Fulcher, W. L. Porter, and O. J. Thies will represent Davidson College at the annual meeting of the American Association for the Advancement of Science at Richmond, Virginia, December 27-31. The association is composed of thirty-five official societies, and the assembly will be the largest scientific meeting ever held south of the Mason-Dixon line. About six thousand scientists are expected. Among the addresses to be made before the general session are: “Intuition, Reason, and Faith in Science,” by Dr. George D. Birkhoff; “Is Education a Science?”, by Dr. Frank P. Graves; and “Man's Behavior, Beliefs, and Values as a Field For Systematic Investigation,” by Dr. E. Macfie Campbell. Dr. “Bevo” Davis, a graduate and former professor at Davidson, now of Biology at Southwestern University, will present a paper and an exhibit. Each of the thirty-five societies will have separate meetings, at which all phases of science will be discussed. Medical College, University of Richmond, and William and Mary College are co-operating with the societies in their meetings. Headquarters for the whole group will be in the Jefferson Hotel.

The men of the science department here recommend strongly that science students attend some of the meetings of the association if possible.

Self-pity is the most effective narcotic yet discovered. Like the drug habit, it grows on one.

The man who wins may have been counted out several times, but he didn't hear the referee.