WEDNESDAY, NOV. 9, 1938 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Seven

CATS LICK WOFFORD FOR FOURTH WIN
Kittens Down Blue Ridge 12-7

Duke Retains Big Five Lead; Heels Second.

Davis, Graham Shine As Davidson Tallies In All Four Periods

Spencer Scores On Brilliant 90-Yard Run In Third

Head Coach McEver Uses Every Man On Bench. Two Safeties Are Scored Against Terriers. Chink Elias Is Mainstay Of Wofford
Eleven

Davidson's freshmen crashed through to their fourth victory of the current season on Friday as they defeated Blue Ridge School
12-7 on Richardson field.

Davidson, led by the passing and running of Bill Davis, and through a weak-resisting Wofford team last Saturday on Richardson
Field to the tune of 29-0.

Scoring in each period the Wildcats pushed the Terriers at will all over the field, and even though the score
was only 8-0 at the intermission of the first half the outcome of the game was never in doubt. The
second team played most of the game, and even they had no great difficulty in running the points.

Davidson's first score came in the first period when big Stan Yoder smashed over from the three yard stripe after
Faison had carried Spencer's aerial toss that far. Yoder missed the try for the extra point.

Early in the third period a sustained Mountaineer drive carried the ball to the freshmen's two yard line where Spencer
gathered in a Blue Ridge fumble and raced ninety yards to score standing up. Later in the second half the
Hilltoppers drove to their lone touchdown and converted for the only extra point of the day.

The fourth and final tally came in the last period when the reserve Wildcats took the opening kickoff and marched
down to the Terrier one yard line where Davis carried it over for the first score of the day.

In the fourth period Blue Ridge kicked off after the second Wildcat touchdown and narrowly missed a six pointer for
themselves, when Bill Fetzer pushed the loose ball back into the field of play and Sam Walker, freshman end, dropped
him behind the goal line for a safety. A little later the half ended with the score remaining the same.

Davidson completely outclassed Wofford to win 29-0 on a muddy field. The Wildcats begin heavy work again Monday as they
prepare to battle V.M.I. in a homecoming Day classic on Richardson field.

Davidson Leads

Thus far Davidson has a slight edge over the Flying Squadron with ten victories against eight losses when the series
started.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Fourth, all the game at the start of the second half and ran up 15 points quickly. The defense began
to function and carried one tie. One game was played, and one tie. Ford tallied 72 points and Greens- boro
tallied 49 points. November 8 is the date of the next fray for the shin-busters, and in which no score
was recorded.

A large Homecoming crowd is expected to witness the game Saturday as V.M.I. attempts to even the count in games
won and lost over the period of thirty-four years. With four wins to their credit and a lone loss to
the yearlings from the University of North Carolina, the freshmen are pointing towards another triangular meet on Nov. 12 with
Lees-McRae and Greensboro High. The harriers should find some stiff competition from the junior college team, for Lees-McRae defeated last
year’s freshman team 26-45.

One reason why so few recognize opportunity is because it is disguised as hard work.

If you want to test your memory, try to remember the things that worried you yesterday.

True wisdom is to know what is best worth knowing and to do what is best worth doing.

Do not think you are the only brainy man in the business; the rest of the staff doesn't.

The only thing that can cheat a woman out of the last word is the echo of her own voice.

On Nov. 15 Appalachian comes to Davidson, and on Nov. 23 the Wildcats play High Point in a return engagement
at High Point. Nov. 25 sees Catawba play at Davidson, and the team winds up their schedule on Nov. 30
against Duke at Durham.

This colorful Homecoming event will be preceded by such stalwarts as Captain Dave Warden and Luke Graham, tackles; Bob Benfield,
end; and Bill Johnston, backfield.

Players Outlook

Following is what some of the football men think about Wildcat chances in the Homecoming game:

Pennington: “I think we're going to be right Saturday.”
Beaty: “We all want this game and will be in there doing our best.”
Hand: “The boys know it's a tough game and will be out there to win.”
Benfield: “It's our chance for a Homecoming victory and we're out to get it.”
Kell Graham: “We should be in our best condition and will be out for victory.”
Iverson: “The team has been working like never before for two weeks and we're set to win.”
Davidson: “With the continued support of the student body and the added support of the alumni, I think we'll give
them a good southern lickin’.”
Warden: “We'll be fighting to give the old grads a victory (and ourselves too).”

Bill Davis, Bob McClellan, and Fred Stair, other members of Davidson’s probable starting lineup, were not able to be found
for statements as the Davidsonian went to press. However, with these three bearing down as usual, the team should be
primed to pull an upset over the Flying Squadron on Saturday.

On Nov. 12 Guilford will be met at Davidson in a return engagement. Walker and Woodward will renew their rivalry
with Captain Mieburn which has lasted for three years. Guilford cross-country teams have always given the Wildcats strong competition in
past years, but the home team will fight to balance the score this weekend.

The varsity travels to Chapel Hill for the Southern Conference meet in which they placed third last year. If they
are at full strength and are not handicapped by injuries, they will be favored to show up well. They have
defeated Washington and Lee, last year’s second-place winner, and the champions, the University of North Carolina, will enter the National
Inter-collegiates in Michigan that weekend.

---

Is it not a fact that only a thin space separates the notable from the not able printer?

Trade With Us! We Sell Nothing But The Best At The Lowest Prices

FREE DELIVERY

SOUTHERN 5 & 10c STORE Davidson, N.C.

Get Your Winter Supply Now

DAVIDSON ICE & FUEL CO. Davidson, N.C.
