Old Graduates To Return To Campus

Z528 ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA

The Davidsonian

LIBERTAS

Council Announces December Dance Band

VOL. XXVI DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 1938 No. 8

Auburn Orchestra To Present Music In December

“Skeets” Morris To Play December 9-10 in Charlotte Armory

TWO DANCES EACH DAY

Faculty Is Petitioned For Costume Ball

“Skeets” Morris and his Auburn Cavaliers Orchestra have been secured by the Pan-Hellenic Council to play for the annual Christmas dances. The dances this year will be held December 9 and 10, in the Charlotte Armory instead of the Hotel Charlotte, where they were held last year. A petition has been presented to the faculty to the effect that the Saturday night dance be some kind of costume ball, as was held here several years ago.

Two Tea Dances

There will be two dances each day, a tea dance in the afternoon and one each night. The formal dance will be held Friday night, at which time the usual figure will be presented by the Council and alternates from each social fraternity.

As observed by the name, the Auburn Cavaliers were originally from the Alabama Polytechnic Institute of Auburn, Alabama. Skeets Morris, the leader, is the male vocalist, and Connie Moore is the songstress. These two soloists combine with the entire orchestra to form a glee club. Among the novelties presented by the band is a comedy quartet entitled “The Swinging Gates.” The musicians feature a saxophone sextet, a trumpet trio, piano duo, and a vocal mixed trio.

Past Engagements

In October the Auburn Cavaliers played for dances at Clemson, William and Mary, Hampden-Sydney, and Presbyterian. They have also played at Florida State Woman's College; Alabama College for Women; The Pickwick Club, Birmingham, Alabama; San Carlos Hotel, Pensacola, Florida; The Tower Beach Club and The Aragon Ballroom, Houston, Texas; The Tutwiler Hotel, Birmingham, Alabama; and the Tantilla Garden, Richmond, Virginia. This past summer they were featured at Myrtle Beach and the Isle of Palms in Charleston, South Carolina.

Body Chooses Senior Blazer

Ballots Reveal Tan Camel’s Hair Is Choice

Chairman Terrell Porter of the senior blazer committee made it known in an interview last Saturday evening that a decision has been reached as to the blazer to be ordered. It is to be a tan camel's hair coat, three-button, single breasted, an extreme drape with a plain back. The results of the balloting revealed that approximately nine-tenths of those desiring blazers wished no “D” or numeral on the jacket.

Several meetings were held at various times to vote on the blazers. There were only a small number present at the meeting Monday night, October 31, but better attendance was noted at another meeting November 3. So far about forty have signed up for blazers, but it is hoped that at least fifty will get them in the end. At the meeting last Thursday night some objections were raised to the price, $15.00, but it was pointed out that according to the voting the majority was in favor of the camel’s hair coat. Johnny Spratt, representative of Tate-Brown Company, Charlotte, was here Friday and Tuesday taking measurements. These have now been finished, and the blazers are expected within the next few weeks. Porter said, “You may quote me as saying that the system of voting [Continued on Page Eight]

Dance Set

Enchantress

Miss Connie Moore, above, will appear with “Skeets” Morris and his Auburn Cavaliers, who will present the music for the annual December set of dances sponsored by the Pan-Hellenic Council. This band has recently played for dance sets at Clemson, Presbyterian, William and Mary, and Hampden-Sydney Colleges.

Student Body Downs Motion Proposed

Motion Is Defeated By Vote Of 204 to 139

“Resolved, That any body which will act as a committee or other representative unit of the student body shall report all its plans and activities to the student body for approval and information of the latter.” The motion was defeated by a count of 204 to 139. The students voted in a secret ballot during this same assembly. A simple majority was all that was required to defeat the measure.

Presented By Torrey

The resolution, presented in the form of a motion, was drawn up by Archer Torrey and seconded by Wallace Sherer, Dan Walker, and Bill Diehl. It was sent by mail to Fred Stair, president of the student body, who read it at the assembly.

Torrey explained that the purpose of the motion was to find out the activities of the various groups representing the student body. This he stated would do away with the misunderstanding which occurs so often between the students and these various organizations.

Motion Discussed

In the discussion that followed Ned Iverson asked that the motion be more fully explained and its purpose be made clearer. Sam Spencer stated that in its present form he believed that it would only serve to slow down the machinery of the organization. Wallace Scherer, speaking for the motion, stated that every student body should know the activities of its representatives. This was the first motion to be brought before the student body [Continued on Page Eight]

I.R.C. Elects Perrin, Simmons To Offices

At the last meeting of the International Relations Club, the election of officers for the year was held. Tom Perrin was elected vice-president, and Frank Simmons, secretary-treasurer. Joe Calvin, the president, was elected last year.

The major part of the meeting was given to the reading of a paper entitled “Can Democracies Afford War?” This paper was prepared and read by Gene Liipfert, and a discussion of this material followed.

The next meeting is to be held in one of the fraternity houses and will have as guest speaker either Mr. William Winter, news commentator for WBT, or Dr. Julian Miller, the editor of the Charlotte Observer. Mr. Winter was here last year.

ODK Conducts Fall Initiation Tuesday Night

President Warren Gaw And Doctor G. R. Vowles To Preside Over Meeting

Annual fall initiation of Omicron Delta Kappa will be held Tuesday night, November 15, in the Quadwranglers room in Chambers Building at 8:45 o’clock. The president, Warren Gaw, and the secretary, Dr. G. R. Vowles, will preside.

Secret Rituals Used

At the meeting this year a revised secret ritual will be used for the first time. The ceremony will be very informal, the formal banquet will be held sometime in the spring. All O.D.K. faculty members will attend the meeting to witness the secret and very impressive ritual.

By the time of the initiation ceremony it is hoped that the O.D.K. gold keys will have arrived so that they can be presented to the seven initiates at the meeting. After the initiation the regular meeting of Omicron Delta Kappa will be held.

New Members Initiated

The initiates are Tom Brewer, Charlotte; Cage Clarksdale, Mississippi; Joe Calvin, Decatur, Alabama; Sam Hemphill, Marion; Julian Squires, Charlotte; T. E. Walker, Charlotte; and Dave Warden, Johnson City, Tennessee.

Music Set Received

The Carnegie record library, presented by the Carnegie Corporation of New York, was received at Davidson this week. It is now being carefully unpacked and checked.

The library consists of an unusually fine electric phonograph, nearly 1,000 records, a library of 100 books on music, 150 musical scores, and a walnut bookcase with albums for the filing of the records. The total value of the set is estimated at approximately $2,500. Dr. W. L. Lingle, who was instrumental in obtaining this Carnegie Music Study Set, stated that a place has not been chosen as yet in which to place it, but that the chosen site will be accessible to the students.

A man sometimes drinks to forget, and about the only thing he forgets is when to stop.

Convention At Durham

Miller and Davidson are Given Appointments In Meeting At Duke

At the annual convention of the North Carolina Collegiate Press Association on Nov. 3, 4, and 5, at Duke University, Rut Miller, Editor of Davidson's Scripts 'n Pranks was chosen as head of new radio broadcast of college news, and Don Davidson, Business Manager of Scripts 'n Pranks, was appointed head of a committee to revise the constitution of N.C.C.P.A.

Plan Radio Program

At present there is a radio program over station WPTF, Raleigh, conducted by the N.C.C.P.A. At the convention, however, it was decided to sponsor instead of the present program, a new program over WBT, Charlotte. Final arrangements have not been made with station WBT, but if plans are carried out the program will be conducted by Rut Miller. It will consist of bits of news sent in by colleges throughout the state and of the music currently popular on college campuses.

The constitution of the press association has displayed numerous contradictions, and it has never been organized or printed. Therefore it was decided that by the next convention held at W.C.U.N.C., the first week in May, it should be revised and published. A committee was appointed to study the constitution as it now exists and make recommendations to the next convention for revision. Don Davidson was appointed head of this committee.

Large Number Attends

At the convention at Duke University last week more than a hundred students from about twenty schools were present for registration on Thursday afternoon. On Thursday night an executive meeting was held, and on Friday there were addresses by A. S. Brown and A. M. Beck of Durham, and appointment of committees. Also on Friday various group meetings and a banquet were held. Saturday there was a business session, reports of committees, and a dance in the ballroom of the Washington Duke Hotel.

Latimer Attends Meet Of Press Association

John Latimer was Davidson's representative at the National Collegiate Press Association’s meeting at Cincinnati on last Thursday through Saturday. The delegates arrived Thursday morning, taking a tour of the city which covered the industrial and residential sections. The tour ended with a trip through the Cincinnati Times-Star, which has one of the most modern presses and printing equipment in the country. The press room of this paper covered one floor and contained equipment worth one million dollars. Thursday night an address of welcome was given by Daniel Lawrence, vice-president of the University ofCincinnati. Friday was taken up by round table discussions for both business and editorial staffs of newspapers, annuals, and magazines. One of the most interesting discussions was led by Phillip W. Buchen, student business manager of the University of Michigan Daily. The topic of the discussion was “Solicitation and Promotion of Local Advertising.”

Friday night a banquet was given for the delegates, at which several interesting after-dinner speeches were made. After this, the convention ball was given at the roof garden of Hotel Gibson. On Saturday morning the closing address was made by Raymond Clapper, a well-known Washington columnist. His topic was “Confessions of a Washington Columnist.” Saturday afternoon all of the delegates were guests of the University of Cincinnati at the Cincinnati-Ohio Wesleyan football game.

Tickets Are On Sale
Director of Athletics Norman W. Shephard announced yesterday in Chapel that regular girls’ tickets are on sale for the V.M.I. Homecoming Game Saturday. Director Shephard also gave the plans of the Athletic Department to permit the students to designate two home games each year in the future as those at which they might purchase girls’ tickets. He explained that the idea of girls’ tickets in the beginning was to help students out on the cost of dance weekends, but that it had soon become a sort of tradition to have girls’ tickets at each game. With this plan, they hope to make the point clear.

Features
The following feature stories may be found in this issue of The Davidsonian: On page two are the Homecoming stories. On page three is the account of the Band concert at the Wofford Game as well as an article about the Salem girls. Page four contains the Book Reviews, and on page five is a short feature about the Museum, while on page eight is an article concerning the present styles. Page three contains the story of the faculty members contained in the latest edition of “Who’s Who In America.”

Alumni To Invade Campus, Hold Luncheon, and Cheer As Wildcats Meet Cadets
Greet Homecoming Guests
Welcome Extended To Friends and Graduates
By DR. W. L. LINGLE

There is a very beautiful thought enshrined in the phrase “Homecoming.” It contains the intimation that when once a student attends a college, the college is forever afterwards his home. That is just as it should be. In after-years, as one looks back at his four years in college, they are among the very happiest years of his life. At any rate, there is something about the memory of those years that makes them different from all other years. They were the years in which the student grew from boyhood into manhood. Not only so, but the years in which he made his finest friendships. It is not necessary to say that there will be a warm welcome for all former students who come back to the old College on Homecoming Day. That goes without saying. It is taken for granted. Those who come are simply coming home. There is always a welcome at-home for those who return. We trust that this is going to be mutually helpful. We are sure that your coming will be an inspiration to those of us who are back here at the College trying to carry on. We hope that those who return for the day will receive new inspiration which will add some of what Matthew Arnold called “sweetness and light” to their daily lives.

By FRED STAIR

We who are still enjoying our college days welcome you back to this campus that holds a multitude of memories for us all. Homecoming is one of the most enjoyable celebrations of the school year. It is truly a jovial season of reminiscence of bygone days and of the comparison of recent personal activities. We still enjoy “bull sessions” and warm friendships, and we are looking forward to having you return once more to vivify our surroundings with your rehash of Davidson’s lively past. We have completed big plans for your entertainment for the weekend. They include banquets, speeches, reunions, dances, and a football game. We are eagerly looking forward to your return, and we trust that a great number of graduates will take this opportunity to revisit our Alma Mater. If you do, we will be able to revive old friendships, play over past football games, discuss former classes and professors, unearth favorite songs, and relive our former happiness. We will enjoy seeing you Saturday.

Warm Welcome To Be Given Old Grads At Homecoming Festivities
SENIORS TO PLAY HOST
McSween, Lacy, And Edwards To Make Banquet Addresses

From all outward appearances, Homecoming this year will be the biggest and best ever. It will be one the alumni will look back on with pleasant memories of a warm welcome, a fine football game, and an excellent alumni luncheon. V.M.I.'s Flying Squadron will furnish the opposition for the fighting Wildcats, and it’s going to be a close, hard-fought battle no matter who wins. With an unexpected tie over Clemson’s great team and another over Wake Forest, the Virginians will be out to get a real victory. Davidson wants that game too. A win over V.M.I. would turn their season into a successful one, and they are out to do just that. Greatly improved since the first of the season and with all players in good condition, they are likely to upset the dopebucket and send the Squadron back to the Virginia hills in full retreat.

Luncheon Is High Spot
The annual alumni luncheon, held in the Chambers hall, will be one of the high spots of the weekend. As a new feature of the luncheon, the members of the senior class will be the guests of the college. The boys will sit with the alumni and act as their hosts on the campus. It is hoped that a better understanding between the two groups will result from this luncheon. The wives and friends of the alumni are, of course, cordially invited.

Three Speakers Slated
There will be three speakers for the occasion. Dr. John McSween, pastor of the Purity Presbyterian Church of Chester, will be the first speaker, and Dr. Ben R. Lacy, president of Union Theological Seminary, will follow him. They will both talk on some important phase of Davidson. The third speaker is Wilbur S. Edwards, who was president of the student body in 1937. He will probably speak on the young graduate’s outlook on Davidson. We welcome you Davidson men back to the campus with the hope that you will enjoy your stay here and thereby increase your love for the college.

Avon Players Will Perform
“The Taming of the Shrew,” a three-act play by Shakespeare, will be presented by the Avon Players tonight in Chambers Auditorium at eight o’clock. The play revolves around the two daughters, Bianca and Katherine, of Baptista, a gentleman of Padua, and their suitors. Bianca is characterized as a gentle, sweet, and beautiful girl who has no trouble at all in finding a suitor, but Katherine is exactly the opposite of Bianca in character. She is characterized as hard to handle and has been dubbed the “Shrew.” No one wishes to be her suitor with the exception of Petruchio, a gentleman from Verona. Petruchio decides to tame the vicious Katherine and becomes her suitor. There are several slapstick scenes during which Petruchio tames the “Shrew.” The Avon Players presented “Othello” in Davidson last fall. Since that time, they have changed their cast of characters with the addition of several new members. The following are the characters of the cast in “The Taming Of The Shrew” in order of their appearance: Lucentio, son of Vincentio, Mel Everitt; Tranio, servant to Lucentio, Harold Selma; Baptista, a gentleman of Padua, Jack Vin- [Continued on Page Eight]

Trustee Group Meets
Next Friday afternoon, November 11, the Executive Committee of the Trustees will meet in the Trustee’s Room in Chambers. This meeting will be preceded by meetings of the several Executive sub-committees on Thursday and some on Friday. The committee for revising the by-laws of the trustees meets Thursday morning and is composed of Rev. A. R. McQueen, D. D., Rev. J. McD. Richardson, D. D., Mr. H. Smith Richardson, Dr. Archibald Currie, and Pres. W. L. Lingle. Thursday afternoon the buildings and grounds committee will meet and inspect the campus, making suggestions in regard to the old buildings and the erection of new ones. On this committee are Mr. G. A. Gannon, Mr. Nevin McCorkle, Mr. A. C. Wood, and Dr. H. W. McKay. On Friday morning the education committee meets to confer on the academic side of the college’s work and to make investigations and recommendations as to new professors to be elected for the following year. The members of this committee are Dr. R. A. Dunn, Mr. H. Smith Richardson, Dr. G. R. Wilcox, and Dr. F. McD. Richards. Approximately fifteen members of the committee will be present.

Fraternity houses will be decorated, and an award will be made for the best-decorated house, as has been the custom for the past few years. Last year’s decoration contest was won by Beta Theta Pi. Their scheme featured the novel idea of a theatre “Showing as a news, comedy and feature attraction Davidson Wildcats’ win over the North Carolina Rams.” Plans are being laid at present for bigger and more unique schemes this year revolving around the outcome of the Homecoming game.

Dean Forbids Autos
Members of the student body are reminded again of the faculty regulations on automobiles throughout the coming year. Dean M. E. Sentelle in a recent notice gave information concerning the rules on the possession of automobiles on campus. The regulation, as it appears on page 19 of the College Regulations “Students Rules and Regulations” is as follows: “Students are not permitted to keep or use automobiles, or motorcycles, save where they are used by those residing nearby to attend College daily, or by other students only over weekends, and then only when cars are listed in the Dean’s office. Students transported in cars, kept in violation of Faculty rules, will be considered as violating this regulation.” Dr. Sentelle also stated: “Obviously this regulation is violated when students keep cars in Davidson or nearby places or use them unless the cars are listed in the Dean’s office.” [Continued on Page Eight]