WEDNESDAY, APRIL 20, 1938 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Five

Question of the Week

There has been a great deal of argument recently as to whether or not it is a violation of the Honor System to answer roll call for someone else or sit in someone else's seat in chapel or church. This problem was called to the front by a recent editorial in the Davidsonian by “Teeny” Lafferty. As usual, there have been advocates for both sides, but it seems that those persons who claim it is not a violation are in the minority at this crack of the whip. Departing from the usual form of questioning only students, we have invited opinions of several faculty and administration members as well as students. In brief, the question was, “Do you think it is a violation of the Honor System to answer roll call for someone else or sit in someone else’s seat in chapel or church?” Here are the opinions:

MR. F. L. JACKSON: “If called upon to recommend a Davidson graduate for a position involving a high degree of trust, I could not recommend without reservation one who I knew practiced such deception. The homely virtues of truthfulness and open honesty are expected of one who lives in the Davidson atmosphere and under the Davidson Honor System.”

PROFESSOR E. A. BEATY: “If this particular type of lying and cheating does not come under the terms of the Honor Code, then that instrument should certainly be so amended as to include it among the prohibited practices. It is, in essence, receiving credit.”

JOE KELLAM, Senior: “The question is a touching one. A student who violates our Honor System is punished, and rightfully so, by dismissal. The question boils down to this: Should we ship a student for a violation of the rule in question? I think we should not.”

JIM DORSETT, Senior: “If the Honor System is interpreted strictly, this is undoubtedly a violation. Of course, it isn’t on a par with the more serious offenses, but I believe that it’s an unhealthy practice and should be stamped out.”

TORREY McLEAN, Senior: “I don’t believe that the majority of students here regard this practice as a dishonest one. If they did, they would not do it. In my opinion, however, it amounts to deliberate misrepresentation by students who do it, and is consequently a violation of the Honor System. If the students are shown that this practice is dishonest in itself and constitutes a violation of the Honor System, I believe that it will stop.”

DR. P. H. GWYNN: “I feel that this is a violation of the Honor System. If I understand the meaning of the Honor System, when a student hands in a paper, that represents his work. In his other relationships, he should represent himself and not somebody else. If he sits in someone else’s seat or answers roll call for somebody else, he is practicing deception, and any form of deliberate deception is violating the Honor System.”

SOPH ELECTION (Continued from Page 1)

up for the presidency of the rising junior class. Dave Sprunt is a member of Kappa Alpha, was on the freshman football and track teams, and has recently been elected vice president of the student council. He has also served as vice president of the Y. M. C. A. during the past year. Sam Spencer's social fraternity is also Kappa Alpha. He is vice president-elect of the student body for the coming year and has been on both the Y. M. C. A. cabinet and the student council. He is also a member of Sigma Upsilon and a managing editor of The Davidsonian. Bud Gilmore is a member of Phi Delta Theta. He is on the business staff of The Davidsonian and clerk at the Student Store.

Lingle Gives Easter Talk On Sabbath

Speaks to Sunday School Class On Belief in Deity of Christ

“Why I Believe in the Deity of Jesus Christ,” was the subject which Dr. W. L. Lingle explained to a large body of students who attended the Easter Services of the Sunday School. Out of the first Easter came the great confession of the Apostle Thomas when he looked up into the face of Jesus Christ and said, “My Lord and my God.” From this confession, Dr. Lingle drew his message. Dr. Lingle based his first belief in the deity of Christ on the fact that Jesus Himself claimed it. Although there are some who deny that Jesus made any such claims, the speaker proved his point by references to several Bible passages. Secondly, his belief was strengthened because those who knew Him most intimately believed in it, and also because of His personality. Dr. Lingle then pointed to the deeds of Jesus’ life, and His sinless and lack of the sense of sin, which is all the more remarkable because the greatest saints have had the deepest sense of sin. The influence upon men and upon the world from His personality and from His teachings were also stressed as a means to increase one’s belief in Christ as the Deity. The famous Sermon on the Mount and His Farewell Address were pointed out as good examples of His teachings. Dr. Lingle then brought forward an Easter note when he said that his belief was made stronger because of the resurrection of Jesus and His way of dying. The speaker then quoted from Rousseau, who said, “Socrates died like a philosopher but Jesus Christ died like a God.” Dr. Lingle concluded his talk by saying, “I believe in the Deity of Christ because of the Christ of experience. The greatest argument is not found in the theologies, but in the hearts of the saints.”

Sigma Upsilon Writing Novel

Officers to Be Elected at Meeting Tonight

The regular meeting of Sigma Upsilon, honorary literary fraternity, will be held Wednesday night at the home of Dr. and Mrs. W. P. Cumming on Concord Road. Election of new officers is one of the most important single pieces of business to come before the meeting. Wade Barrow is the retiring president. Chubby King will present chapter five in a round-robin novel at the meeting. This novel started as the life of a student and ran on as such for five chapters, but under the direction of Dr. H. T. Lilly, the hero journeyed to far Japan. The novel will run throughout the year, or until the end of school. Field Horine will read a short story written by himself and Sam Newell will read his initiatory essay. After the regular business and social hour, there will be refreshments.

NEW TEACHER (Continued from Page 1)

Professor Fulcher commended Mr. Lothery for the fine work he has done here and at Presbyterian College and said that he and the students were sorry to see him leave.

A bureau of higher education has been formed at the University of Kentucky.

The average annual cost for each serious student illness at Yale University is $23.

WHEN IN MOORESVILLE — SHOP AT — KENNERLY’S GROCERY STORE HIGH QUALITY LOW PRICES

Drink Pasteurized MILK IT’S SAFE MOORESVILLE CREAMERY

Orange Juice at Student Store PHONE 205 Davidson Dates Queens FREE DELIVERY

ROTC Companies Work Military Field Problem

Baldwin Talks Major Steele Instructs ROTC Battalion in Tactical Movement

For the last week, the companies of the ROTC battalion have been studying a field problem under the direction of Major C. I. Steele, professor of Military Science and Tactics. Starting Monday, April 11, each company, beginning with Company A at 9:00 AM, went into the first phase of the problem. This phase consisted of instruction in tactical maneuvers on the ground itself. This typical scene was taken in front of Chambers Building.On the above the others a small unit (the rifle platoon) | Annual Queens Day shows Seniors Ryburn and Vowles with their Chapel Talk for the tactical duties of sec | dates from Queens-Chicora College. A program for the day was planned and no classes were held after chapel. A baseball game for the afternoon and a magician’s show that night were some of the major features of entertainment. The girls returned to Charlotte following the last event of the day.—(Courtesy Charlotte Observer).

Baldwin joke on the count wt! Bach company forms as a full strength platoon which acts as the flank guard for an assumed larger body of troops. As the platoon encounters resistance represented by a machine firing blank ammunition, the platoon commander immediately deploys his platoon and attacks. After employing both fire and movement, the platoon regroups.

Local Chapter Will Be Host to Juan Zamora Next Week-End | Delegate from Kentucky, Tennessee, South Carolina, and North Carolina will attend. Juan Zamora’s visit to Davidson Friday night with his wife accompanied by Mr. and Mrs. Joseph M. Perez Cabrera, made a talk completely in Spanish over WET. 

Betty Grable, who is to appear here on Friday and Saturday, April 22-23 in “College Swing,” with an all-star cast, is the wife of Jackie Coogan who is also in the film. The movie is one of the latest releases from Hollywood and gives the latest in swing music.

During his stay, Mr. Zamora, accompanied by Mr. and Mrs. Joseph M. Perez Cabrera, made a talk completely in Spanish over WET. 

Harvard Press Donates Thirty-Five Books | The Davidson library received thirty-five books from the Harvard Press. 

Fellowship Awarded Five Diplomas | Custom of Eight Years Ago to Be Revived | The Philanthropic Literary Society held its regular bi-monthly meeting Tuesday night. The president announced that the required number of credits had been met.

The Davidson Student Body Couldn't Be Wrong | The Davidson College Business Club held its fall meeting. 

Dr. Fulcher from Wesleyan, Colgate, Swarthmore, and Princeton are to discuss their recent work on the resistance of certain materials. 

Carlisle - Lloyd | The average Birmingham-Southern College student spends 23.1 hours per week reading, 16.3 hours of which is on required reading. 

Henderson Jewelry Shop | Watch and Jewelry Repairing | Now in Knox Building | Davidson, N.C. 

Prescriptions filled by efficient and experienced pharmacists. 

The Season’s Outstanding Selection of Fabrics | Including Gabardines, Tweeds, and Worsteds, Single or Double Breasted — Sport or Plain Backs in regulars, shorts, stouts, and regulars. $16.50 to $25.00 | Griffon and Rockingham Suits | Belk’s Dept. Store | Mooresville, N.C. 

White Drug Co. | Rosco Karns - Larry Crabbe | Friday & Saturday | On Our Stage | Dancing, Mirth, and Melody. | Chicago Follies | Gags, Gals, Giggles | Plus | A Delightful Screen Program | Balcony 25¢ Anytime | Broadway