Off To Ohio Marquess, Latimer Z528 ALENDA UBI ORTA Che Mavidsonian LUX LIBERTAS Davidson Delegates Go To NCCPA’ VOL. XXVI DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 1938 No. 7 Magazine Heads Go To NCCPA Conclave Sponsored By Duke N.C.C.P.A. Meeting Will Be Held In Durham On Nov. 3, 4, and 5 PLAN BIGGEST CONCLAVE Program Consists Of Talks And Discussion Rut Miller and Don Davidson will represent Davidson College at the Convention of the North Carolina Collegiate Press Association to be held November 3, 4, and 5 at Durham. The convention will be held at the Washington Duke Hotel and delegates from all over the State will attend. Highlights will include several round table discussions and talks by the leaders of the organization. On Friday night a dance will be given in honor of the delegates in the hotel ballroom. Plans have been laid for this to be the largest convention in the history of the Association. Duke University is to be the official host. Rut Miller, Editor of “Scripts and Pranks,” is first Vice President of the North Carolina Collegiate Press Association. Don Davidson, Business Manager of the college magazine, will also attend the meetings. Other officers of the State Association are Walter James of Duke, President; Frances Wimberly of Flora Macdonald, second Vice President; Edna Earle Bostick of W.C.U.N.C, Secretary; and Gibbs Gibbs of Lenoir Rhyne, Treasurer. The last convention was held last May 5-7 in Charlotte. Delegates from eighteen or twenty colleges were entertained with a series of affairs held for them then.

Watts Speaks At Conclave Goldiere And Watts Go To Conclave In Greensboro This Week At the meeting of the North Eastern section of the North Carolina Education Association held in Greensboro on October 21 and 22, Dr. G. B. Watts of the Davidson department of French was the principal speaker at the meeting of the Modern Language group. On November 4 he and A. V. Goldiere will attend meetings of the North Carolina Chapter of the American Association of Teachers of French in Greensboro. This chapter was organized in Davidson last November. Greensboro College will entertain the chapter. On Friday evening a complimentary dinner will be given by the college. Dr. Watts, as first president of the chapter, will respond to the address of welcome by the president of the college, Dr. Gobbel. At the chapter meeting on Saturday morning Dr. Goldiere will speak on the work of his committee in arranging for a central film bureau for French films in North and South Carolina. Dr. Watts will speak on the plans of the chapter for making awards to those schools and teach- [Continued on Page Five]

Social Science Men Receive Bids to IRC The International Relations Club has extended bids to those students who have shown an interest in the social sciences. The following men have been selected: Seniors—Gene Liipfert, Stitt Robinson, Mark Lillard, and George Jones; Juniors—Dave Sprunt, Tom Harnsberger, Tom Perrin, Julian Lokey, Dick Kenyon, Jack Holland, Frank Simmons, and Dan Gilliam; Sophomore—Bill Loftin. Professor Rene DeV. Williamson will act as faculty adviser during the coming year. The second meeting will be held Friday night at Dr. Williamson’s home, where a definite program will be discussed.

College to Get Carnegie Set Of Recordings Purpose Of Record Library Is To Promote Music Appreciation Dr. W. L. Lingle has received the bill of lading of the Carnegie record library. The long awaited set is at last on its way, and is expected to arrive in the near future. Lyon and Healy of New York and Chicago are the agents selected to assemble this complete library of recordings and other materials of interest and value to music lovers. The purpose of the Library is to install “in the student and lay person a well-rounded appreciation and love of good music.” The set to be received here is to be comprised of 953 records in 31 albums; a nine-compartment album-shelf; 191 miniature scores; an index filing system including cards (with complete data) and a four-drawer filing cabinet. Among the recordings are 108 vocal solos, 40 choral works, 114 piano, 88 organ, 336 wind, 29 stringed, 27 percussion, 21 symphonies, 127 quartets, 187 orchestral, 21 band, 106 representations of dance forms, 44 operatic excerpts (including seven complete operas), and 134 representations of national music. These represent the works of 293 composers. Dr. W. L. Lingle states that he has been applying for this “Carnegie Music Study Set” for a number of years. It is considered a valuable asset to Davidson College. He mentioned the fact that the president of Williams College, in his annual report, called to the attention of the board of trustees the benefit and enjoyment derived from the set of records at the college. It is expected that at Davidson disposition will be made of the records which will enable the entire student body and community to enjoy the gift of the Carnegie Corporation.

Eleven Enter German Frat Informal Conversation Held After Initiation Eleven members were initiated into Delta Phi Alpha, honorary German fraternity, at the first meeting held October 24, at eight o'clock in the home of Dr. G. R. Vowles. Bill Davis and Ed Morrow were the only initiates from the Senior class. Bob Doty, Gray Hunter, Burton Johnson, Walter Kunz, Billy Masters, Bill Perdew, Bob Ramsey, Beecher Sitterson, and Rea Tenney were taken in from the Junior class. To be eligible for membership in this fraternity, one must have completed five semesters of German. After the initiation, the meeting was devoted to a period of informal conversation in German, led by Dr. Vowles and Profs. Rechilly, honorary members of the fraternity. The topic was “What I Did This Summer.” At the close of the meeting, refreshments were served by Mrs. Vowles. The next meeting, which will be the only one held in November, will be November 14. At this time Dr. K. J. Foreman will review the book “Mea Culpa.” The initiation into Deutscher Verein will be held at a later meeting. This club is for prospective members of Delta Phi Alpha. A student must have had four semesters of German to be eligible for membership in it. The present officers of Delta [Continued on Page Five]

Queens To Sponsor Davidson-Queens Day Queens-Chicora College has again invited the student body of Davidson College to be their guests at the annual fall Davidson-Queens day, to be celebrated this year November 17, in Charlotte. The first Davidson-Queens day was held here a year ago last spring, when the girls from Queens came to the campus to be the guests of the student body for the Davidson-Guilford baseball game. Last year the Davidson students were guests of Queens-Chicora in the fall, and the girls were again invited to Davidson in the spring.

Alumni Speak To Churchmen Davidson Graduates Take Part In Southern Presbyterian Meeting On November 5 Centre Church, near Mt. Mourne, will be host to the sesquicentennial of the organization of the Presbyterian denomination south of Virginia, with several Davidson alumni taking part in the exercises. Moderators of the synods of the two Carolinas will join with other distinguished members of the denominations in celebrating the event. The all-day program next Saturday will start at 10:30 o'clock in the morning, will extend through an old-fashioned picnic that will be held on the grounds, and last into the afternoon. It was here that the synod of the Carolinas was organized 150 years ago. Mr. Watson Fairley, D.D., of Raeford, moderator of the North Carolina synod, will speak on “Early Presbyterianism in the Carolinas.” P. Finley Henderson, prominent attorney of Aiken, S.C., will speak on “Presbyterianism from 1788 to 1813.” Rev. Mr. C. M. Gibbs, stated clerk of the North Carolina synod, will give the history of Presbyterianism in this State, and Dr. Waddell Pratt Erwin will give the history of the church in South Carolina. Rev. Mr. H. Tucker Graham, D.D., of Florence, S. C., will also speak on the morning program. In the afternoon Dr. Reid R. Morrison of Mount Mourne will relate the history of Centre Church. Dr. Walter L. Lingle will bring greetings, as will other guests. Rev. Mr. Parker, the pastor, was graduated from Davidson in 1908. Mr. Henderson is of the class of 1897; Dr. Fairley 1895, Rev. Mr. Gibbs 1915, and Dr. Morrison 1902. First built in 1765, when North Carolina was a colony of George III, and when life was at its crud- [Continued on Page Five]

College Band Honors Grads Pfohl To Direct Concert For Homecoming Presenting its third in a series of concerts, the Davidson College Symphonic Band, under the direction of James Christian Pfohl, will again play on the night of November 11. This program has been arranged not only to honor Armistice Day, but also the Alumni who have returned for Homecoming on Saturday. Mr. Leonard Meretta, assistant director of the Lenoir Rhyne College Band, will be the guest soloist at this time. He was the soloist of the Ernest Williams Concert Band, and traveled as a cornet virtuoso. Also he was soloist in the University of Michigan Band. The concert to be played will have the following program: an arrangement of the old song “Pop Goes the Weasel;” “Die Fledermaus Waltzes” by Strauss; “The Barber of Seville” by Rossini; “Polka” from the opera “Schwanda” by Weinberger; “Song of the Bayou” by Bloom; a selection of melodies suitable for Armistice, and other symphonic band numbers.

Leaders Plan For Initiation At the Tuesday meeting of the association in Durham November 3, 4, and 5.The men exercises, and a table for regular O.D.K. meeting to plan the annual fall initiation bid at the fall tap. Warren Gaw, local chapter president of O.D.K., will preside over the ceremonies, and Dr. G. R. Vowles will aid in the initiation, which will take place in the dome room of Chambers Building. This is the formal fall initiation, and all rituals will be held in secrecy. All faculty and student body members of Omicron Delta Kappa will be present for the occasion. After the meeting, a feed will be held in one of the fraternity houses. Those men who will be formally taken into the organization are: Tom Abbott, Cage Brewer, Joe Calvin, Sam Hemphill, Julian Squires, “Boo” Walker, and Dave Warden. In the spring, another initiation will be held after the spring tap day exercises. At this time, the annual formal banquet of O.D.K. will be held.

Telling your troubles is swelling High School. Among the officers elected last June for the North Carolina Collegiate Press Association were Walter James of Duke, President; Frances Wimberly of Flora Macdonald, second Vice President; Edna Earle Bostick of Woman's College University of North Carolina, Secretary; and Weinberger of Lenoir Rhyne, Treasurer.

The Red and Black Masquers will present three one-act plays Thursday evening. These plays are expected to draw large crowds this year. Marquess and Latimer leave for the meeting of the National Press. Sixty attend the scribes’ class first meeting. Fred Smith makes plans for the definite organization of journalists. Davidson’s journalism class has been reorganized under the direction of Fred Smith and will meet on Wednesday evenings again this year. Approximately sixty students attended the first meeting Monday morning after chapel. Smith briefly outlined plans for the year and appointed a committee of three to select nominees for offices. The group was then adjourned until today, when the actual reorganization took place.

Plans were made at the meeting in chapel to start the year's studies with festivities. A weiner roast under the direction of Mr. Smith and Paul Cooper will be held a short distance from Davidson on Wednesday night. Cars will be furnished for transportation. After the meal, an informal meeting will be held.

The journalism course was begun last year by the alumni secretary for members of the student body interested in journalism. He has had twelve years of newspaper experience and has done work in all branches. The class will be run this year on a more definite plan, and there will be membership obligations.

Davidsonian chiefs to attend the national gathering in Cincinnati. Bill Marquess and John Latimer, Editor-in-Chief and Business Manager respectively of the Davidsonian, are leaving for Cincinnati, Ohio, today where they will attend the Associated Collegiate Press Convention at the Hotel Gibson, which starts tomorrow and lasts through Saturday. Last year the convention was held in Chicago, IL, and was attended by five hundred delegates from thirty-seven states, representing two hundred and sixteen publications and one hundred and fifty schools. The convention grows larger every year and there is always a varied program of benefit to all college publications. Raymond Clapper, Washington columnist and commentator, and president of the Washington Gridiron Club, will give an address Saturday morning as the final convocation. His subject is: “Confessions of a Washington Columnist.” The convention itself is divided into two sections. The first is for newspapers, with separate divisions for editors and business managers, and the second is for yearbooks. The Davidson representatives will return late Monday afternoon, bringing with them helpful criticisms for the Davidsonian, given by experts and advisers from every large school in the country.

Last year leaders in the different fields of newspaper work, including Jake Wade, sports editor, and Jake Houston, photographer of the Charlotte Observer; and Cameron Shipp, author and editor of the Charlotte News, spoke to the class. The Red and Black Masquers, led by Jake Houston, will present three one-act plays Thursday evening at eight o'clock in Chambers Auditorium. Tickets have been on sale for some time and sales are increasing daily. A special section has been reserved for the benefit of the faculty. The Charlotte Little Theater group will also attend the performance.

Seniors vote on blazer order to be sent off this week; seniors urged to sign up at once. Of the thirteen sample swatches for senior blazers which have been on display at the Student Store for the past week, eight were still under consideration at the meeting of seniors desiring blazers, held in Phi Hall last Monday evening. The meeting was conducted by Terrell Porter, chairman of the Blazer Committee, aided by Sam Newell, class president, and Ken Lawson and Jim Pratt, the other members of the committee. The swatches voted on were as follows: tan and green camel's hair, dark green covert cloth, brown and green diagonal tweed, dark blue and dark green tweed, and all-wool diagonal dark green, tailor-made. Prices varied from $15.99 to $11.00, also varying according to the wish of the purchaser. The committee announces that all men who want to get blazers but have not signed up as yet, must do so immediately. Measurements and orders will be sent off before the end of the week. No order for blazers will be accepted this year unless accompanied by a deposit or other satisfactory arrangement to ensure the taking of the coat.

Concert given Monday night. Davidson Little Symphony and Salem Opera Group present program. Monday night the Davidson College Little Symphony Orchestra gave the second in a series of musical concerts. For the second part of the program, a one-act opera was given by Salem College. James Christian Pfohl, director of the orchestra, led the group in their five numbers. They played “Cosi Fan Tutti, Overture” by Mozart; “Prelude” by Armas Järnefelt; “Le Coucou” by Louis-Claude Daquin; “Pizzicato Polka” by Johann Strauss; and “Waltz from the Ballet Suite ‘Sleeping Beauty’” by Tchaikovsky. As an encore, the orchestra repeated the loudly applauded “Pizzicato Polka.” James Webber was concert master. Reb Rummel played a solo on the French horn in the piece “Le Coucou.”

The opera “Bastien and Bastienne” was produced by Clifford Bair, who is the director of music at Salem, and director of the Salem College Choral Ensemble. In the opening scene, we found Bastienne pining for her ardent but very fickle young shepherd lover Bastien. First Bastienne and later Bastien, who has tired of the blandishments of a certain high-born lady, seek the aid of Colas to effect a reconciliation. This is in due time achieved. Whether in spite of, or because of, the conjuring art of the magician Colas, the lovers are happily reunited; Colas is made content too, by a refurnished purse given to him by Bastien. Bastienne, the shepherdess, was played by Harriette Taylor; Bastien, her lover, by Kathryn Swain; and Colas, a bogus magician, by Ted Bodenheimer.

Avon group returns. On Wednesday night, November 9, the Avon Players, who have been coming to Davidson for the past two years, will present one of Shakespeare’s most humorous works, “The Taming of the Shrew.” Professor E. J. Erwin says the company is better organized and has better scenery than ever before. These players have presented tragedies on their previous visits, but this year they bring us the most hilarious farce that Shakespeare wrote.

Double cuts on football weekends have been abolished! Yesterday afternoon the faculty passed a recommendation that had been submitted by the Student Council, which reads as follows: “Because the Student Council thinks it is to the betterment of student body regulation, it proposes, by unanimous vote, the following recommendation: That double cuts for off-campus athletic events be abolished, and that ordinary single cuts be given for absences incurred on such occasions.”