Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

THE DAVIDSONIAN WED., DEC. 14, 1938 Page Six

GAW, WEBB

AMONG THE GREEKS

Last week, Fred Little was initiated into McLeod, Standwitz, Marsh, Yarborough, and Webb and Gaw are both members of the Y.M.C.A. Cabinet and participate regularly in the deputation work of the Y. This is one of numerous deputations put on each year by the Association.

SENIORS AND SOPHS

(Continued from Page Four)

beat the Pikas 970-919. The Eps won over the K. A.’s, and the Phi Delts the Pi Kappa Phis by a margin of 35 pins. In this round the Phi Gams were victors over the Sig-Eps. In this round the Sig-Eps fell before the Kappa Sigs by the score of 961-882.

Monday the fifth round was run off, but only three matches were completed. The Sigs compiled a new high in total scores by knocking down 1082 pins, exactly 100 more than the Betas. The Pikas won a very close match over the Pi Kaps by 5 pins; the final score was 918-913. In the only other match, the S. A. E.’s conquered the Sig-Eps 967 to 882.

BEAVERS PLAN

(Continued from Page Three)

The locality of the hunt has not yet been decided upon, but it will probably end near the “Rocks,” Catawba River. As yet no plans for the Club's spring activities have been formulated. Usually, it brings athletes from various preparatory and high schools to Davidson and entertains them.

The Carnegie Set---At Last

Presented to the school by the Carnegie Corporation of New York, the complete musical set which rests in the banquet hall of Chambers building has a wide variety of music. There are 137 books on music, 149 orchestra scores, and 957 records all accurately compiled in the filing cabinet. The set is open from 7 to 9:30 o'clock every night during the week to all who are interested and wish to hear the music. Mr. Pfohl introduced it to the student body Monday in Chapel, playing on it the introduction to Act 3 of the opera “Lohengrin” by Richard Wagner.

FILM REPORT CARD

(Continued from Page Two)

comforting element for Tyronne as that outstanding film of silent days. Sally Eilers plays the sordid night club hostess who turns evangelist and, with the aid of several pals, it's a wise worm that stays under cover and deprives the early bird of his breakfast.

(Continued from Page Three)

week-end included: Dr. and Mrs. Gambol, Kay Yoder, Loretta Diegle, Catherine Diegle, Mr. and Mrs. Lovett, Virginia Hickman, Barbara Craven, and Jane Rankin.

Kappa Sigma

Brother Hamilton Baker, National vice-president of Kappa Sigma, visited the chapter last Friday. He was accompanied by Brother Black of Wofford. Girls visiting the chapter over the week-end were: Ellen Munroe, Tibby Dooley, and Johnnie Walker. There was a feed at the house Sunday night.

Phi Gamma Delta

On last Thursday evening all the brothers and pledges were entertained at the home of Dr. and Mrs. W. P. Cumming, the former Purple Legionnaire of the chapter. Most of the brothers attended the dances in Charlotte on Friday and Saturday with Misses Elizabeth Mendenhall of Winston-Salem and Ann Wiley of Charlotte as chapter sponsors. Other girls who attended the dances with the brothers were Miss Mary Razer of Asheville, Misses Nancy Hovis, Maujer Mosely, and Sophie Walker of Charlotte, and Miss Polly Price of Davidson.

Kappa Alpha

Among the girls for the dances were: Geoffrey Jordan, Betty McClintock, and Gentry Burks of Charlotte; Julia Scott Newell of Atlanta; Alice Moore of Sumter, and Jacqueline Ray of Oxford. Alumnus Jim Johnston was present at the feed Sunday night.

Phi Delta Theta

All brothers and faculty members were invited to the annual Freshman skit which was presented at the house on Sunday night. A feed was held after the play. Guests of the fraternity for the week-end were: Pet Dargan with Locke Hunter, Weeny Dargan with Read Harman, Rusty McLinden with Arthur Moore of ‘37. Several of the brothers and pledges attended the dances in Charlotte over the week-end.

Pi Kappa Phi

The Pi Kaps held a---

---

This cleaned text maintains the original structure and punctuation of the OCR text.Banquet Saturday night at the S. & W. Cafeteria in Charlotte. Brother Cunningham acted as toastmaster. Major and Mrs. Ballard, Dr. and Mrs. Vowls, and Dr. and Mrs. Knight were guests, as were Misses Corneille Caraway and Teen Dunlap of Wadesboro; Ceceil Sypher, Ruth Archer, Aileen Long, and Carolyn Caudle of Charlotte; Margaret Ivey of Rock Hill; Dot Branans of Thomson, Ga.; and Julie Hobbs of Davidson. Alumnus Fred Renfrew was also present.

5 FROSH CAGERS 4
[Continued from Page Four]
Don Bell, Ralph Stair, and Jack Simonds started the game. Loy, Ough, and Lucas also saw action. Tuesday and Thursday will both see the yearlings in action against nearby teams.

LIBRARY NOTES
Heretofore the college library has followed the policy used in many schools of requiring a deposit on all books taken out over the holidays. This year the library is experimenting with the idea of doing away with the deposit and trusting the student to make any replacements of lost or abused books without requiring a guarantee in advance.

COUGHS, TICKLE
Huskiness Due to Colds
MEDICATED BATH GIVES QUICK RELIEF
Tormented with throat huskiness, dryness, coughs due to colds? Let a Vicks Cough Drop dissolve naturally in your mouth. It bathes tender throat tissues with soothing medication for 12 to 15 minutes, and comforting relief comes fast. Because Vicks are really medicated... medicated with the throat-soothing ingredients of Vicks VapoRub... famous for relieving discomforts due to colds.
MEDICATED VICKS COUGH DROPS

Wed., Dec. 14th.
them in some manner, as was the case last year, and it is very likely that this will be carried out this spring.

UNITY CHURCH
[Continued from Page One]
A cantata will be presented; this cantata will tell the story of Christmas in song and scripture. Many Davidson students are aiding Watson Street in carrying out his plans. Earl Copes has written some original music to accompany a poem written by one of the young people of the church.

STATE THEATRE
N.C. Wed., Dec. 14th
“CRIME TAKES A HOLIDAY”
Jack Holt and Marcia Ralston
On The Stage
“SHAVER’S DeLUXE ENTERTAINMENT”

Thurs.-Fri., Dec. 15-16th
“THE ROAD TO RENO”
Randolph Scott, Hope Hampton, and Glenda Farrell

Sat., Dec. 17th
GENE AUTRY, in “WESTERN JAMBOREE”
Also Serial “RED BARRY”

Have Your Shoes Fixed Where the Aristocratic
BUFF SHOE SHOP

DeLuxe Ice Cream
Mooresville, N. C.
Phone 56

WHERE CAMERA ENTHUSIASTS MEET
Holly Smith
CAMERAS AND PHOTOGRAPHIC SUPPLIES
106 S. Church—Phone 3-4302
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

A little French girl who adores him. In the array of historical characters, you will find Benjamin Disraeli, Victor Hugo, and Franz Liszt. She demonstrates her “healing power” for fake cripples. The denouement is quite dramatic.

Monday and Tuesday, December 18-19th.
“TARNISHED ANGEL,” Sally Eilers, Paul Guilfoyle, Ann Miller, and Lee Bowman.

BOYTE - BROWN EUROPEAN TOURS
The Ideal Christmas or Graduation Present
ERLE AUSTIN, Student Organizer
WE PROVIDE SANTA CLAUS

This is a story vaguely reminiscent of “The Miracle Man,” more re-weaving service rewoven for hundreds of families.
M.-H. Goodrum Company
Burns and Tears
501 Independence Bldg.
Charlotte, N.C.

“UP THE RIVER”
Thurs., Dec. 15th.
“FLIRTING WITH FATE”
Fri.-Sat., Dec. 16-17
“SUEZ”
Mon.-Tues., Dec. 19-20th.
“TARNISHED ANGEL”

DAVIDSON THEATRE
Davidson, N.C.

Chesterfield... the blend that can’t be copied... a happy combination of the world’s best cigarette tobaccos.
1938, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.

And all around the clock Chesterfield’s milder better taste gives millions MORE PLEASURE. All through the year at Christmas time send these pleasure-giving cartons of Chesterfields—packaged in gay holiday colors—welcomed by smokers everywhere. You'll find Chesterfields a better cigarette because of what they give you—more smoking pleasure than any cigarette you ever tried—the right combination of mild ripe home-grown and aromatic Turkish tobaccos rolled in pure cigarette paper.