WEDNESDAY, APRIL 13, 1938 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Many Suggestions Are Made For Senior Gift

Various Suggestions For Class Gift Have Been Offered By Seniors

Several suggestions for the senior class gift were made at the chapel period last Friday morning. Monroe Wicker, chairman of
the gift committee, will present the best of these to the seniors at the next class meeting. In addition to
these, the committee, composed of Julian Helms, Pete McKnight, “Teeny” Lafferty, Bronston Kenney, and Chairman Wicker, has written other schools
for examples of gifts and suggestions, and has also asked for suggestions from Dr. Lingle and Mr. Jackson. All suggestions
will be considered and the best ones, in the opinion of the committee, will be selected. At this time, the
name of the gift will be voted upon by the class members. Collections for the gift will be made at
the same time as for caps and gowns.

Rain-Proof Shelter

The most popular suggestion among the seniors was a rain-proof shelter, closely followed by a set of chimes or bells
for the clock on Chambers and an athletic scholarship. Other things mentioned were new chairs for bumming corner, new furniture
for the library, new furniture for the Y. M. C. A., an increase to the lecture appropriation, a fund for
a prayer chapel on the campus, and a brick walk around the gymnasium. Also suggested were cushions for the senior
chapel seats, garages for the students’ cars, a new college president, and a new doctor.

Eta Sigma Phi Initiates Nine

Ludlam, Menius Bid in Both Latin and Greek

Nine men were initiated into Eta Sigma Phi, Classical Language national honorary fraternity, at the Social Center, Monday, April 10.
Of these, Warren Ludlam and Leonard Menius achieved recognition for work in both Latin and Greek. The other initiates were
R. A. Kenyon, J. N. Smith, S. Oglesby, R. W. Ramsey, T. J. Glenn, T. M. Wells, and Dr. C.
M. Richards, an honorary member. The following accepted bids and will be initiated at a future meeting: J. R. Williams,
J. R. Phipps, R. N. Smith, D. W. Sprunt, J. W. Holland, and T. J. Abernathy. Al Cates will produce
and direct Milton's “Samson Agonistes,” which is being sponsored by Eta Sigma Phi. W. S. Robinson and J. N. Mawhinney
will attend the national convention of Eta Sigma Phi in Columbus, Ohio, and will leave here Wednesday, April 21. Watson
Street's “Socrates Light of his Indictment” was published in the last issue of “The Classical Journal.”

Swimming Exam Held

Several Davidson students attended the series of Red Cross Life Saving classes held in Kannapolis, Monday through Thursday nights of
last week. These classes were conducted by Chuck Mix, Red Cross examiner, and Horace McCall of the Davidson junior class.
Mix conducted a class for examiners, and McCall taught a class in Senior Life Saving. Those taking the examiner's course
were Bill Johnson, Locke White, Charley Yates, James Chrisman, and Frank Brown. Taking the senior course were Tommy Hornsberger, John
Donaldson, Louis Hipp, Albert Littlejohn, and Ken McIntyre. The examiner's course was finished Thursday night in Kannapolis, but the Senior
Life Saving men had to go to Charlotte on Monday night and take an examination. It will not be known
who passed these courses for about two weeks.

Where Camera Enthusiasts Gather

HOLLY SMITH CAMERAS And Photographic Supplies 106 S. Church—Phone 3-4302 Just A Step Off Trade Street

Page Three

Contest Winner

Colin’s Magical Feats

High Spot of Program

Hear Concert

Chicago Little Philharmonic Orchestra Plays in Chambers Auditorium

Wednesday evening, April 10, the Davidson student body and townspeople heard Mr. Roy Palmer, illuminating engineer of the Duke Power
Co., give a demonstration lecture on the “Magic of Light” in Chambers Auditorium at 8 P.M. Mr. Shapiro conducted the
orchestra in Johann Strauss Jr.'s “Overture to Die Fledermaus,” and Schubert's unfinished Symphony in B Minor for the first part
of his program. When an encore was demanded by the applause of the audience, Mr. Shapiro rendered the lively version,
“Flight of the Bumble Bee,” by Nicholas Rimsky-Korsakov.

Overture To “Mignon”

After a short intermission, the orchestra played the overture to “Mignon” by Ambroise Thomas. The Little Philharmonic Orchestra then played
two of Claude Debussy’s compositions, “Claire de Lune” and “Arabesque No. 2.” Other selections played were McDowell’s “To a Wild
Rose,” and Johann Strauss, Sr.’s “Perpetual Motion.” The concluding number on the Little Philharmonic Orchestra’s program was Anton Rubinstein's “Russian
Peasant Dance.” Encores demanded by the audience’s continued applause were Georges Bizet's “Habanera” from the Ballet Suite, “Carmen.”

Betas Hold Banquet At Hotel Charlotte

Spirits dominated the second part of the performance. The Betas entertained their visitors at a banquet Saturday evening at the
Hotel Charlotte. Brother Bradburn returned from a “political meeting” in Washington. The usual Sunday night feed was held. The chapter
has invested in a new sign which was put up Friday. Marvin Sours is suffering from an auto accident and
it was necessary to take seven stitches in his head.

Pi Kappa Phis Entertain At Banquet

A banquet was held at Thacker’s. Bob Walker went to Maryville with the track team. Brothers Mock and Barnwell went
to their respective homes. The week-end visitors of the chapter were: Carolyn Phofl, Margaret Briles, Carolyn Miller, and Dorcas Boyette.Sophie
Walker, Charlotte. Guests were Dr. and Mrs. Vowles, Dr. and Mrs. Hanson, J. D. Craver, C. W. Colwell, the singer
of Dean Hudson's band, Herbert Swassey, Horace Reeves, and Frank Simmons.

Because of the progress being made in this field, it has been arranged for Mr. Palmer to return every three
years to show the students the advancement that is being made.

During intermission, the Pikas were invited to a party at Brother Jack Lafferty’s home. Friday they enjoyed a banquet at
the S & W Cafeteria. Ruth Holt Anderson, Pauline Douglas, Mildred Marsh, Phyllis Crooks, Estelle McElwee, Louis Braun, Ann Stapleton,
Lucy McArthur, Arden Trowbridge, Helen Willifred, Betsy Springer, Betty Secrest, Eleanor Newman, Martha Allen, Caddie Willis, Gig Branan, Alice Willis,
Lib Lyles, Dot Feuchtenberger, Sarah Ramsaur, Dell Southerland, and May Anderson were the guests of the chapter for the dances.

During the spring dances, the Kappa Alphas entertained the following young ladies: Sarah Glenn, Converse; Peggy Cleveland and Betty Hall,
Converse; Martha Alexander, Charlotte; Margaret Galloway, Marion Galloway, and Emily Harris, Greensboro; Sue Batte, Concord; and Helen Jenkins, Charlotte. The
chapter enjoyed a feed Sunday night.

Brothers Armfield, Newton, and Mills were the guests of the chapter this weekend. Brother Milton Williams, a graduate of Vanderbilt
University, spent the day here. Accompanying the tennis team of Furman University was Brother Stone Zagby, who visited the Brothers.
Dates up for the dances were: Margaret Davies, Floride McBee, Catherine Martin, Tiny Waddill, Virginia Baxter, Leila Sitton, Lib Lee,
and Polly Hobson.

Dean Hudson accompanied by another band member and Miss Frances Colwell ate Saturday dinner with the Kappa Sigs. Bob Phipps,
Bill Black, Tom McAlpine, and Vernon, detectives—Sam Cothran and J. S. Raynal.

On the technical staff are Robert King, Gordon Horton, and Dean Hudson. Archer Torrey is in charge of decorations and
paintings, Chase Brenizer in charge of wiring and lighting, and David Sprunt who gives assistance.

For the second time within a week, the Physics and Chemistry departments presented two silent films to Davidson students last
Monday night entitled “Glass Magic” and “The Eyes of Science.” The two films dealt with the making of optical glass
and the grinding of optical instruments. They illustrated some of the fundamental properties that characterize light and the effect of
light upon different lenses. Both films were furnished by the Bausch and Lomb Optical Company of Rochester, New York.

Due to conflicts of schedules, there have been several changes in the dates of the French plays of Le Cercle
Francais. The appearance at Converse has been postponed to April 21, the plays in Charlotte will be at the Little
Theatre instead of at Central High School, and Converse College's French Club will appear here on April 19 instead of
the 18th. On April 28 or 29, a program will be presented in Chambers auditorium by the Davidson French Club,
at which the Winthrop French Club will be guests. They will be entertained at a reception after the plays.

Daily rehearsals have been held for “L'Homme de La Nuit,” and “La Lettre Chargee,” the plays in preparation by Le
Cercle Francais. Casts and technical staff have been completed and are as follows: For “La Lettre Chargee,” Hortense, a young
widow — Sam Spencer, Hector, her suitor — Oscar Armstrong, Peters Fougasson, an American — John N. Smith, Francine, a
servant — Terrell Porter. For “L'Homme de La Nuit,” William Halders, a painter — Al Cates, Edith his wife —
Robert King, Maggie — Sid Crane, Flossie — Don Davidson, Bernard Jenkins, a valet — Archer Torrey, Hogson, chief of
detectives — Wade Barrow, Heirick and Vernon, detectives — Sam Cothran and J. S. Raynal.

The informal initiation began Tuesday night at 4:30. At this two-hour event, the initiates were given a clean field for
smartness. The informal initiation began with a parade through the campus, followed by a grand charge upon an imaginary enemy
in front of Chambers building every twenty yards. The initiates were dressed in fatigue clothing, overseas caps, broomstick guns, and
six bricks. This equipment was worn throughout the entire day. Their drill was highly fashioned and they assembled in front
of Georgia Dormitory for inspection of equipment.

The chapter was nearly all present at the dances the past weekend. There were many guests up for this occasion.
Tom Breeden and Howard Covington, '37 grads, Buddy Austin of Gainesville, Ga., guest of Jim Dunlap, Anne McKay, Rilma Wilson,
Virginia Carey, Helen Hamilton, Jane Smithers, Margaret Beasley, Betty Jean Groover, Margot Phalen-Gray, Clotilda Jones, and Brother Reed of Mercer
University. Brothers Sproul and Turner went to Rock Hill Saturday and Sunday. Brother Norman Stevenson went to P. C. for
their dance set.

Brother Damon Turner visited the chapter over the weekend.
