WEDNESDAY, MARCH 9, 1938 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Five

Professors Must Work For Career
Instructors Get Degrees From Various Schools—U. N. C. Is Favorite

NEY AND DIO NEY ESCAPING GOERS IN FLEE TO AMERICA?

DAVIDSON Currie Will Not Be Speaker At Meeting
Political Science Professor Speaks Tonight to Commerce Club

Ministerial Band Hears Dr. Richards
Son of Faculty Member Discusses Problems of Young Minister

All work and no play makes Jack a dull boy, but this system is a necessity in the preparatory periods
of the members of the Davidson College faculty. Of twenty-seven professors, seven associate professors, fifteen assistant professors, and two instructors
(this excluded the faculty of the ROTC department), a majority of the Davidson professors have a “Doctor” degree of some
kind, some are Doctors of Philosophy, others Doctors of Science, and still others Doctors of Medicine.

Tonight the regular meeting of the local Commerce Club will be held and several items of importance will be the
center of interest on the program. Dr. Currie will deliver a talk to the members at this gathering, the subject
being “The Necessity of Public Speaking to Business Men.” He has for some time headed the Political Science department and
was formerly the head of the History department.

If more students had signed up for dance set tickets, Kay Kyser, shown above, would be swinging at the Spring
Dances, but the fates decreed otherwise. The Council announced that they could not contract Kyser, unless the promised sale of
250 dance set tickets had been reached. Only 225 men signed the circulated lists.

One must remember that before attaining the “Doctor” degrees, professors must complete bachelor, master, and other primary degrees.

Perhaps it would be interesting to note that nineteen of the instructors did not attend Davidson College at all, but
received their entire formal education from other educational institutions. Another thing about the Davidson professors is that all but nine
took the Bachelor of Arts degree in the first college which they attended.

Other interesting facts about the professors and their education are the professor who has been with Davidson College longest teaches
an ancient language. Several members of the faculty have studied in foreign universities; University of Paris, University of Berlin, and
University of Edinburgh are among the most notable. More professors have received Doctor’s degrees from Yale University than any other
graduate school except for Davidson. More professors have received their undergraduate degrees from the University of North Carolina than from
any other institution.

Social sciences lead the field in number of professors, having sixteen; languages are second with twelve members to that part
of the faculty.

The different professors have been employed at Davidson College in greatly varying number of years. The professor who has been
teaching here the greatest length of time came first as professor in 1888. Then of course new professors have been
coming and going since that time, with new ones taking up their duties on the campus every year.

MARSHAL NEY WAS THE NORTH CAROLINA SCHOOL TEACHER, PETER STUART NEY, THE NOTED MARSHAL OF FRANCE

MANY OF NEY'S PUPILS LATER SAID NEY READ ALL THE BOOKS IN THE DAVIDSON LIBRARY

MAJOR STEELE RECEIVES SCOUT MASTER’S BADGE

The chemically-yellowed walls of the laboratories will be refinished before the members return. Workmen, directed by Hobart, superintendent of buildings
and grounds, are already at work.University of the South at Sewanee, to the Board of Examiners; the All-American TL KA
football Ate Sra Meal aaa ie an me I’Reidsville. Dress Ball. Also, there were pledges Tennessee, where they will take
the affirmative side of the question. All applicants passed the necessary requirements. After a double quarter, Mack Otts and Charles
Marshall from the local chapter had sung three special numbers. Beavers Meet Neal Recovering Other Brothers traveled far and Wednesday
night. The question is “Resolved: That the United States Should Hold to its Present Policy of Neutrality.” The debaters will
then journey into Kentucky to meet Center College at Danville. The affirmative side of the regular debate will be taken.
The two men will return to the campus on next Wednesday.

Doug Neal, who injured his leg in an automobile wreck, has been moved to the infirmary and is steadily improving.
Johnny Reisner is recovering from his case of measles. He was to have made the trip but is unable because
of an attack of measles. Ramsey, the alternate, is taking his position.

Tomorrow evening, March 10, the members of the Beaver Club will meet in the parlor of Watts for their official
organization. At this time, they will draw up a constitution and discuss taking in new members. The Beavers were unofficially
organized two weeks ago and officially recognized last Friday afternoon. They are: president, Tom Abbott; vice president, Sam Newell; secretary
and treasurer, Henry McConnell. Sponsor is Mr. Fred Smith.

The club is patterned after an old club on the campus which went out of existence a few years ago.
Its duty was to play host to teams and other visitors during their stay at the college. The duties of
the new group began soon after, when nine basketball teams visited Davidson to take part in the annual junior college
basketball tournament.

SAE’s Make Routine Journey Many of the brothers this week journeyed home and to many places in the surrounding country.
Alex Erwin spent the weekend at Laurinburg. Brothers Sloan and Cauble had a short stay in Winston-Salem from where they
returned to Davidson accompanied by Brother Charlie Fuller and Miss Mary Graham of Salem Academy. Brother Bullen spent the day
here before going on to his home in Lumberton. He was a recent spectator at the Mardi Gras in New
Orleans.

Dr. Richards, Miss Samson, Brothers Lee, Dick, and Kenyon went to eastern North Carolina with the glee club. Brother Gil
Palmer went with Brother Dick Taylor to the latter’s home in Oxford and Brother Bill Lemmon to Converse. Brother Joe
Calvin returned Friday from the debating trip.

Phi Delts Recuperate From Previous Weekend Although not an official record, it is believed to be the largest number of
merit badges ever to be applied for at one Court of Honor. Several others applied for merit badges and three
applied for proficiency awards. Jack Rhett, son of Colonel Rhett of the local ROTC unit, went before the board of
examiners and applied for fifteen merit badges. The southern trip was made last week by Haywood Hill, Neal Scott, and
Joe Calvin, alternate. They returned Friday after a very favorable tour. The debate with Emory ended in a victory for
Davidson. The second with the University of Florida was broadcast. Birmingham-Southern was a no-decision, and the debate with the College
of Charleston was won by an audience vote. The affirmative side of the national question was taken all the way.

There has been considerable work on the part of the scouts, and under their new scoutmaster, they are showing progress.
They have undertaken several projects during the past few weeks. Robert R. King, scribe for the local troop, and David
A. McLean were presented assistant scoutmaster badges. Major Steele, who has recently been appointed district president, visited the chapter at
the regular weekly meeting on Thursday. Also visiting the meeting with him were Brothers Black, Ariel, and McCord of the
Wofford chapter. The spring initiation will be held soon.

The Army Ordnance department made their regular inspection at the ROTC headquarters last week. Three ordnance men inspected starting March
3 and lasting for three days. The three men were sent from Ordnance department headquarters 4th Corp Area for a
forty-five-day tour of the southeastern military schools. The group was headed by Staff Sergeant Willard M. Onellion and was accompanied
by Privates First Class, Mitchell and Mayo. An inspection of all small bore arms and ammunition was made, and faulty
rifles were set aside.

For the best stories of the week, students of the journalism class at South Dakota State College are presented red
apples every Friday.

Records—Victor, Brunswick, Decca Bluebird—35c & 7c Each. Any Record Not in Stock Can Be Quickly Secured. PARKER-GARDNER CO. “You’ll Find
Warmth and Friendliness At Bridges” Complete Home Furnishers 308 South Tryon Street. Groceries, Merchandise, Hardware, Zenith & RCA Radios. Since
1898. PHONE 8257 Charlotte, N. C. Charlotte, N. C.

ERNEST ELLISON, Inc. ERNEST ELLISON ROBT. E. ELLISON. Marine Insurance. East Fourth St. Charlotte, N. C.
