WEDNESDAY, NOV. 23, 1938 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Three

Question of the Week

In line with the suggestion made by Dr. Lingle in his announcement during chapel last week, the Davidsonian questioned several
students as follows: Do you have any special ideas as to how the new dormitory should be built?

A majority of the ones queried favored an arrangement of suites of two and three rooms, only one out of
five definitely favoring the single room arrangement. The individual answers are below:

Hugh Verner, Junior: My conception of the new dormitory: A three-story building with stairs in the center; slightly larger closets;
showers on each floor placed in a room to themselves. Then, too, the lighting facilities in rooms could be more
up to date by installing wall plugs. This would take away the necessity of dropping cords from the ceiling. Two
indirect lamps in each room would improve studying conditions a great deal. I believe that these changes in the new
dormitory would make a better Davidson.

“Cowboy” Moore, Sophomore: I think that one good improvement over the present dormitories would be to have several base plugs
or electrical outlets in the wooden baseboards around the bottom of the room, which would eliminate much of the faulty
wiring which students must put up in order to connect their radios and other appliances. This would also help to
cut down on the lights going out as the result of a short circuit. This occurs all too frequently on
the night before a review. Another improvement along this line would be to have a switch at the door to
control the lights. I also wish to second the motion of “Letters to the Editor” last week to make a
dormitory which will not only be a pleasure to live in but will add to the beauty of the campus.

Bill Boyd, Senior: I believe that the new dormitory should be built along the lines of the Tenements at the
University of South Carolina. In this arrangement, three or four boys live in a suite of two rooms and a
bath, the bath being between the two rooms. One of these rooms could be used for studying and the other
for sleeping. This dormitory should be large enough to house all the boys living in town and the Barracks. It
would also be nice if it did not look like all the present dormitories.

Louis Hite, Sophomore: I think that a dormitory with as nice rooms as East and West now have, with running
water in each room, and a shower on each floor, would be all right for a school the size of
Davidson. I am not in favor of a suite of rooms each one holding four boys, as it would be
more difficult for four boys to get along together than two. The building should be about three stories high, with
rooms for students in the basement.

Jack Abernethy, Junior: An ideal dormitory would be one divided into two-room suites, with one of the rooms being used
for sleeping and the other room being used for studying. Two boys would be a good number for each suite,
with four suites to a hall. The dormitory ought to be laid out by floors, with a bath on each
floor. A dormitory such as this might be too expensive for a school the size of Davidson to have, but
if it were at all possible, I would like to see the college erect such a building.

DeLuxe Ice Cream
Mooresville, N. C.
Phone 56

DRIVE A CAR THAT IS IN STYLE
M. P. Henderson
DAVIDSON, N.C.
CARS FOR RENT

Sam Newell
Two New Committees For Gift And Gowns

John Reisner And John Mawhinney Assigned Positions As Chairmen

Two new committees for the Senior Class, with John Reisner and John Mawhinney, Chairmen, have been appointed by Sam Newell,
class president. The class gift committee will this year be headed by John Reisner as chairman, and Locke White and
Charlie Sample, committeemen. John Mawhinney will head the caps and gowns committee, and will be assisted by Scotty Raynal and
Stitt Robinson.

The gift committee will gather suggestions for a class gift from the various members of the student body and faculty,
going over the suggestions and choosing the best ones to present to the class. A vote will then be taken
to decide the final gift. The caps and gowns committee will award the contract for caps and gowns to a
certain company and will take charge of issuing and checking them when they arrive.

The senior blazer committee has completed its work, with the final selection of the blazer several days ago. This committee
was composed of Terrell Porter, chairman, Ken Lawson, and Jim Pratt. After samples of the blazers arrived they were put
on display in the student store for several weeks, where the members of the graduating class examined them. At a
special meeting of the class, a tan camel's hair coat was selected.

Spanish Frat Sees Comedy

Proposed Amended Constitution Is Discussed

Sigma Delta Pi and the Spanish Club held their second joint meeting Monday night at the Social Center. After the
business discussion, a comedy in Spanish was given and a spirit of informality took over.

The business session was under the gavel of President A. L. Bixler. The proposed amended constitution was read by Professor
F. L. Fleagle and a short discussion of it was held. Pending the receipt of an interpretation of several points,
there will be no action taken.

Dr. and Mrs. DeRoxlo of Charlotte are to be invited to attend the next meeting which will be held in
two weeks. It is hoped that Dr. DeRoxlo will deliver a short talk. C. W. Roberts, vice-president and chairman of
the program committee, presented a comedy in Spanish, “La Dismision Irrevocable.” The characters: Al Bixler, Charles Roberts, and Marion Pleasants
in the masculine roles; and Jim Ballard and Dave McQueen taking the feminine leads.

A Spanish Christmas card contest was then conducted by Mr. Roberts, with Professors Fleagle and Blythe taking the parts of
dictionaries. Especially proficient as poets were Elmer Hulen, Jack Lee, Marshall Houston, and Charlie Mashburn. A motion was passed whereby
continued absence from the meetings [Continued on Page Five]

Appoints Committees

Go to Duke Meeting

Dr. C. K. Brown, Dr. Rene Williamson, and Dr. A. M. Hillhouse, professors of Economics, Political Science, and Business, attended
an emporium on “The Changing Economic Conditions of the South,” held at Duke University this past weekend. They were there
only for the Saturday session, which had as its principal speaker the former Premier of Belgium, Paul Van Zeeland. Secretary
of Agriculture Henry Wallace was there for the event, but his speech was not heard by Davidson's representatives.

‘D’ Club Plans Annual Feast

Jake Wade Will Deliver Principal Address

The “D” Club will give its annual football banquet in the Alumni Banquet Hall of Chambers Building Thursday night, December
1. Jake Wade, Sports Editor of the Charlotte Observer, will be the principal speaker. Fred Smith, Alumni Secretary, will act
as the master of ceremonies, as he has for the past several years.

Newspaper sports writers of the leading journals of the Carolinas will attend the banquet along with the seven members of
the Davidson coaching staff, four faculty members of the Athletics Council, and four alumni members of the Athletic Council. Also,
all members of the football “All-American” squad, and “D” Club have been invited to attend. In all, the guests will
be over a hundred in number. A regular turkey dinner, with stuffings and trimmings, will be served, and the banquet
hall will be decorated in red andBlack, Davidson colors. A committee headed by Sam Hemphill and including George Jones and
Bill Bolin is in charge of the program. Committees concerning decorations and food will also be appointed. At the banquet
last year, Williams “Doc” Newton, former head football coach here, was the principal speaker, and Joe Johnston of Barium Springs
also made an address.

Raleigh Grads Smith’s Hosts
Alumni secretary Fred Smith has been invited to Raleigh Friday evening, December 2, to address the meeting of the chapter
in the state capital. Davidson alumni from fifty miles around Raleigh are being extended an invitation to attend the get-together
on that date. The group is trying to enlarge its membership and organize old graduates in the east central portion
of North Carolina. A. Y. Kelly is president and Howard Summerell is secretary. Other alumni groups in the eastern United
States will meet during the winter months, and several new chapters are planning to be organized. The large number of
old graduates who live in the southern sec- [Continued on Page Five]

Expansion alumni to 221 S. Tryon Street
BEFORE and AFTER the GAME —— VISIT —— THACKER, “A GOOD PLACE TO EAT” Inc. Opp. Johnson Bldg.

CAMPUS IN CARTOON FAMILY AFFAIR
GEO. R. BENSON, HIS WIFE, BESS, AND SON DUDLEY RECEIVED DEGREES AT THE SAME TIME THIS SUMMER FROM THE UNIVERSITY
OF FLORIDA

In the northeast corner of Davidson’s Fraternity Row is a house that has held two different fraternities and now goes
under the names of Sigma Phi Nothin and Kappa Snappa. The house was occupied by the Sigma Alpha Epsilon until
1924, when a local fraternity became extinct and the S.A.E.’s were able to move next door to their present quarters.
The house was next occupied by the Theta Upsilon Omega fraternity, which moved from the house on the lower end
of the row for this purpose. These latter quarters were then used by Miss Steele until this year when Dr.
and Mrs. McGavock, the present occupants, moved in. In 1934 the Davidson chapter of Theta Upsilon Omega became dormant and
last year this fraternity merged with Sigma Phi Epsilon. During 1935-'36 the house was unoccupied, but the next year it
was used as a dormitory to accommodate the overflow of students. Since that time four men have lived in the
house each year, and characteristically they have without exception been prominent athletes and campus leaders. The first four occupants were
Bill Quick, Maurice Peabody, Jim Johnson, and Herman Clark in 1936-37. These men, except for Clark, were lettermen in two
sports and three of the finest athletes ever to represent Davidson. Quick was captain of the baseball team and co-
(Continued on Page Six)

Hurrah! America’s Favorite Comics come home from the trenches 20 years after the war is over!
— NOW —
Stan LAUREL
Oliver HARDY
—In—
“BLOCKHEADS”
with
Ellis Gilbert
Minna Gombel
Patricia
Mon.-Tues.
A blasting revelation of the inside operations of the underworld!
“ILLEGAL TRAFFIC”
with
J. Carroll Nash
Mary Carlisle
Wed.-Thurs.
An Encore Engagement!
GARY COOPER
HELEN HAYES
in
“A FAREWELL TO ARMS”

ROADWAY LAST DOWNS
IN CHICAGO PAPER AT VA. POLY INST.
PRES. ROBERT M. HUTCHINS OF CHICAGO, WON THE DE FOREST ORATORICAL PRIZE AT YALE — AS HAD HIS FATHER, BEFORE
HIM

Kappa Snappa Boasts Ancestry of Leaders

Pi Gamma Mu Starts Work
On Friday night, November 18 at seven o'clock, the members of Pi Gamma Mu, national honorary fraternity representing the social
sciences, held their regular business meeting. Present at the meeting were nine of the fifteen charter members of the group,
which was founded only this fall, including two professors. The main business of the meeting was divided into two parts:
first, what men on the Davidson campus would be considered eligible for membership in the Fraternity, both faculty and students.
Since this group was only recently founded, this business constituted the principal session. Secondly, each member was asked to select
the topic upon which he wished to make his talk or write his paper. At each meeting, some member must
make a short talk or read a paper on some phase of the social sciences, and these selections were chosen.

Dr. Lyon Takes ‘Hope’ As Subject For Talk
Attend Conference
At the convention of the South Atlantic Modern Language Association this week, Dr. A. V. Goldiere will present a paper
before the French and Italian divisions. The convention is meeting at the University of Florida in Gainesville November 25 and
26. Professors Goldiere, G. B. Watts, and E. J. Erwin will be the Davidson delegates. Dr. Watts is a member
of the executive committee, and Professor Erwin is a former president. Membership in this association is open to all teachers
of modern language from North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, Florida, and Alabama.

Ancient Books Form Display
Collection Of Bibles Exhibited In Library
Through the courtesy of Professor Henry T. Lilly, an interesting exhibit of Bibles of different foreign languages is on display
in the Library. Languages represented are German, Icelandic, Dutch, Swedish, Spanish, Danish, Sanskrit, Greek, and Latin. A Roman Catholic Mass
Book in Italian is also shown. In connection with this Bible display, an old Arabic Bible printed about 1517 is
exhibited in the next showcase. Its story is told in two clippings in the same case. It seems that an
Arab prince, when he was about forty, was kidnapped and sold into slavery in South Carolina. Treated brutally, the indomitable
Prince Omero, alias Moreau, escaped into North Carolina only to be thrown into prison [Continued on Page Six]

PSALM PROVIDES TEXT
Sunday School Class Hears Second In Series On Belief Essentials
Last Sunday morning Dr. S. C. Lyon conducted Sunday School in Phi Hall taking as subject for his second lecture
“Hope, as Shown in the Study of the Organization of Nature.” The scripture reading was from the Nineteenth Psalm. Faith,
as Dr. Lyon stated last Sunday, is the first essential of belief in God. The second essential is rational Hope.
This is brought out in the revelation of the study of the organization of Nature. Science is the systematic study
of the organization of nature. In all the natural sciences this organization is prevalent. In Chemistry, Physics, Biology, Geology, Meteorology,
and Astronomy mathematical exactness and precision is seen. This organization points toward a higher intelligence: the higher intelligence points toward
God. How different is this view from that of the agnostic who says, “I do not know the how, why,
or what of nature.” God then created man in order that he might study and understand the organization of His
wonders in Nature. These wonders are being understood more fully as time goes on. The more the organization of Nature
is understood the fuller the revelation of God will be. Rational Hope justifies the belief [Continued on Page Five]

Chez Norton
Le Palais de la Chevelure
GO TO AN ACADEMIC BARBER (Master of Tonsorial Arts)
NORTON, M.T.A.

THIS IS THRILLING NEWS!
On Friday (November 25)
IVEY’S STARTS AN
Old Fashioned CHRISTMAS SALE
Plan Now To Be On Hand
COME AND SHOP AND BE MERRY AND SAVE
IVEY'S
Charlotte, N. C.
