WEDNESDAY, JAN. 12, 1938 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Question of the Week

People will talk. And they have been talking for the past week or so about holding the Davidson-Carolina basketball game
in Charlotte. As usual, some are for, and some are against; but the general consensus of opinion runs almost unanimously
to the fact that Davidson students shouldn't have to pay for the contests staged in the Queen City. And the
thing which most favor definitely is a new field house on campus which would eliminate the necessity for playing games
elsewhere. Here are a few answers to the question: “Are you in favor of holding the Davidson basketball games in
Charlotte?” (Incidentally, we had a question worked up on the Ludlow referendum but the proposal in the House of Representatives
killed the bill before we could get the paper out).

Tony Shelby, Senior: “It would seem that we should have a decent place to sponsor home basketball games on our
own campus, but at the present we haven’t a place to do so. To have visiting teams on the campus
of Davidson with all its history and tradition should be an honor to students who are less privileged. However, when
the visiting teams, as well as our own, have to rebound from the walls of the building, such is certainly
not the case. I personally believe that we should have our basketball games in Charlotte, just as we have our
dances, because Davidson obviously does not possess the facilities.”

Sam Newell, Junior: “I’m opposed very much to having the games in Charlotte: I can understand the alumni in your
editorials, we need their support financially. However, students should be entitled to attend free games sponsored by Davidson, even though
they be played in Charlotte.”

Dick Spencer, Junior: “I think it’s a good idea to have them in Charlotte, because of larger crowds there. However,
I do not think that, since they are home games, the students should have to pay. And if the games
are to be played in the Armory, the seating arrangement should certainly be improved.”

Bill Kiesewetter, Senior: “I think we ought to have the Big Five games in Charlotte, provided the seating arrangement is
satisfactory. I think the Saturday night games would draw a larger crowd, and providing the away with the red light
baskets, which are all right for Madison Square Garden, but unnecessary for the Charlotte Armory. Other games should be kept
on the campus. The best solution of all would be a new field house.”

Sherrard Rice, Junior: “I’m in favor of having most of the games on the campus, but since a larger crowd
can see the game in Charlotte, it would be well to have some of the games there.”

LR.C. Hears Brown Talk About Peace

Discusses Present International Situation and Pacifism

Dr. C. K. Brown, of the Davidson College faculty, addressed the International Relations Club at its regular meeting Friday night,
January 7, in the Faculty Chambers Building. “Peace is almost a paradox to us,” said Dr. Brown, in discussing the
possibilities of peace in the current international situation. Referring to Walter Lippmann’s latest book, “The Good Society,” Dr. Brown said
there are two kinds of wars: “limited wars”—specific disagreements; and “total wars”—wars for world issues. There’s a complete need, he
said, to develop a willingness to adjudicate disputes which can be done in the case of limited wars, but cannot
be done in the case of total wars. Dr. Brown said he believed that the Spanish War was more a
local thing than people really thought. “The Spanish War,” he said, “offered a nice laboratory for other nations to try
out their instruments of death.” He added that it was shown that a war can't be fought and finished any
quicker than in former times. Dr. Brown also brought out the point that since America was taken from the Indians
by force, the United States has no right to complain to any other nation today about any alleged aggression on
the part of that nation.

Students Give Views In Poll

(Continued from Page 1)

“Campus Comments” “More constructive thinking in letters to the editor, rather than individuals blowing their own horn for personal glory.”
“Students should be entitled to attend free games sponsored by Davidson, even though they be played in Charlotte.” “Very good,
you can’t please everyone.” “Put more pictures about Davidson life.” “Put a few suggestions as to the dress among the
colleges.” “NUTS.” “Require your reporters to be more accurate.” “Editorials on more national and world affairs.” “New Editor. Put NEWS
on front page, rather than in departments like sports news.” “Don’t editorialize in news articles.” “Good type, good layout, good
looks.” “More trips before the Executive Committee by the Editor for printing stories that aren't printed now. More independent spirit
and attitude.” “You have done a very good job this year! I believe the paper this year has been more
representative of the student body than ever in the past.”

Too Much Church

“Too much about the last Sunday’s Church services and too much attention paid it by giving it an important part
of the first page.” “More letters to the editor on wider subjects. More controversial editorials.” “Type and printing fine. Read
proof carefully. Paper as a whole, excellent.” “I think as a whole, you have one of the best college papers
in the south. I would like to see more interviews and pictures. Suggestion: A modern etiquette column for college men.”
“I think the system of guest editorials elected from among the campus leaders as done last year deserves to be
continued. Make the question of the week more profound. Congratulations on the paper so far this year.”

Founder Tells Beginnings Of College Paper

Davidson’s Crack Golfer

Henson Maples (left), Davidson golf star, is receiving the championship trophy from Guy Pierce following his upset victory over veteran
Robert Harlow in the 35th annual Mid-Winter golf tournament at Pinehurst.

First Editor Views Davidsonian’s Growth

From the little acorn the mighty oak thus Dr. Frank Price roots the “Davidsonian,” expressed his views on the growth
of the college newspaper since his editorship. Together with Dr. W. A. McAlwaine, now a minister in Japan, and P.
D. Patrick, Dr. Price turned out the first issue in the spring of 1914 to fill a crying need. From
the first there was bitter opposition, the Magazine not wanting the competition, and faculty members only half-heartedly supporting it. Additionally,
there was a lack of enthusiasm among some of the students, who stated that there was no need for a
newspaper. However, after several conferences, a four-page (smaller than now) edition was compiled, and taken to the Standard Printing Company
of Charlotte for publication. Incidentally, this company has published the “Davidsonian” ever since. The first issue was a complete success.
Thus from this noble but small beginning, the “Davidsonian,” now well organized, efficiently run, and given a ranking of “Excellent”
in all ratings by the Associate Collegiate Press in recent years, has grown.

Lingle Invited To Vanderbilt

Dr. W. L. Lingle, president of Davidson College, is one of four hundred representatives of American and foreign colleges and
universities invited to attend the inauguration of Dr. Carmichael as chancellor of Vanderbilt University in Nashville, Tenn., on Feb. 2,
1938. Delegates to this inauguration will take part in a symposium on higher education in the South, in which sessions
will be devoted to liberal arts, medicine, engineering, law, theology, nursing, and graduate education. The symposium is to cover the
two days immediately preceding the inauguration date. During the sixty-two years of its existence, Vanderbilt University has had only two
chancellors. The inauguration of Dr. Carmichael will be the third.As a milestone in higher education in the South. “You’ve the
best paper I see. How do you do it on a campus your size? Co-operation? Congratulations,” (Lewis Jones) editor of
Old Gold and Black.

Among the Greeks:
Beta Theta Pi—Pledge Moek and brothers Elder and McKnight went to Winston-Salem over the weekend. The usual Sunday night event
was there.

Nell, Betty Martin, Betty Boyd, Jean, Margaret Anderson at Caldwell Guise.

Pi Kappa Alpha—Pledge Vernon Youngblood spent the weekend at home in Concord. Brothers Akers and Allison spent the weekend at
the chapter. During the holidays, the chapter was redecorated and refitted.

Kappa Alpha—Most of the brothers spent a quiet time at home last weekend, with the exception of the game in
Charlotte Saturday. Brother Horace Lutz was down from Carolina to see his new alma mater play the Wildcats. The chapter
also enjoyed a visit from Brother Silvy Moffett from the class of '37. This was the first time this semester
they decided to take it easy for the weekend.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon—The chapter regrets very much to announce the departure of Brother Charlie Fuller to his home in Lumberton,
there to enter business with his father. The chapter attended en masse the basketball game in Charlotte Saturday night. Brother
George Mathis spent the weekend in Charlotte. The chapter also entertained guests last weekend. Horace Lutz, U.N.C. Pledge Brother, and
Brother Jake spent Saturday night on Pete Marchant’s date. Pledge Brother Jamie MacBeth spent the weekend off the campus as
usual, this time in Mooresville.

Kappa Sigma—Most of the brothers were in Charlotte Saturday night for the basketball game. Pledge Chan Lane went to Greensboro
for the weekend. The chapter was host to Dr. Carmichael, who was elected early in 1937 and took over the
duties on July 1, relieving Chancellor James H. Kirkland, dean of American heads, who is now serving as chancellor emeritus.

ERNEST ELLISON, Inc.
ERNEST ELLISON
ROBT. E. ELLISON
Fire, Casualty, and Marine Insurance
113-115 East Fourth St.
Charlotte, N.C.

Complete Home Furnishers
308 South Tryon Street
Charlotte, N.C.

“You'll Find Warmth and Friendliness At Bridges”

A cross-section of Hunter College students, in a voluntary peace poll sponsored by the World Youth Congress, revealed they believe
that in case of armed conflict, the United States should prohibit the shipment of munitions to all countries at war.
They were divided about half and half on the question of whether they would fight for Democracy against Fascism or
fight only in case the country is invaded.

Phi Gamma Delta—Several brothers attended the Carolina-Davidson game in Charlotte Saturday night. The usual Sunday night event was held. Col.
Lippfert and son, two Mur brothers, got sidetracked in Charlotte over the weekend. Brother Cook and Gene Garner spent the
weekend at home in Greensboro. Dr. Tim Dorsett spent the weekend at home in Salisbury.

Phi Delta Theta—Practically the entire chapter returned later to attend the game. Brother Billy Turner represented the freshman team. Nearly
the entire chapter went to Charlotte Saturday for the basketball game.

Pi Kappa Phi—Several brothers went home. An exploding shotgun barrel cost Gene Vereen, Davidson freshman from Moultrie, Ga., a painful
injury to his left hand in an accident last Saturday. While hunting birds near Thomasville, the freshman flushed a bird,
fired, and the right barrel exploded. The explosion, ripping a piece of metal the size of a half dollar, tore
off the tip of his third finger and severely lacerated two others. Rushed to a Thomasville hospital, Vereen received careful
attention. He was allowed to return home the following day but was not permitted to return to college until the
first part of this week.

Page Five

Carnegie’s Work Is Still Most Popular In Library
Audubon’s Illustrated “Birds of America” Is Also a Valuable Book

Dale Carnegie’s “How to Win Friends and Influence People” remains the most popular book on campus where students are much
interested in self-improvement. Audubon’s illustrated “Birds of America” is also highly prized by students and faculty alike.

Miss Claire Hutchins Betrothed to Major’s Daughter
Miss Katherine Steel to Cadet Claire Hutchins, daughter of Major and Mrs. Hutchins of Lexington, is engaged to Cadet Claire
Steel, son of Major and Mrs. Steel of West Point. The wedding will take place at 11:30 on January 10
at the Cadet Chapel at West Point.

Charlotte Musicians
The portrait of Mr. Eugene, a highly regarded band instructor, will be placed in the library. The portrait was made
from a photograph and is a tribute to his professional contributions.

Publication Halted
In view of the fact that Miss Shaw, a former librarian, was loved and revered, a campaign was started to
raise funds for her portrait. Faculty members are asked to send checks (for one dollar) to Mr. Chalmers G. Davidson
to facilitate this worthy intention.

ON OUR STAGE
Another Grand and Glorious Revue packed full of Singing, Dancing, and NATIVE GIRLS. FIESTA IN OLD MEXICO

Records—Victor, Brunswick, Decca Bluebird—35c & 75c Each
Any Record Not in Stock Can Be Quickly Secured
PARKER-GARDNER CO.
PHONE 8257
Since 1898
Charlotte, N.C.

Call Us When You Need Coal, Wood, or Ice Delivered Same Day...
DAVIDSON ICE & FUEL CO.
PHONE 130
