CAT-TALES By TONI CASALI

Davidson's varsity looked impressive for the first time this season last Friday when they took Erskine’s measure with a rousing 33-0 win. Their running plays were run with perfection, and every man on the field looked good. If there could be any stars picked out of the affair, certainly Archie Steed, Bill Davis, and Tubby Hand should be named. Steed made the fans forget Teeny Lafferty ever existed. At the beginning of the second quarter, he slashed off-tackle, cut out toward the sideline, and scampered 65 yards downfield to score standing up. Later in the second half, he scored again on a beautiful 28-yard run behind some nice blocking on the part of his teammates. Davis looked good. Not only did he carry the pigskin 14 times for a net gain of 94 yards, but he attempted eight passes and completed five for a total of 128 yards. Hand, who has been somewhat overlooked in the past, started the scoring after a series of line-plunges brought the ball up to the eight-yard stripe. In fact, all of the 'Cat backs looked good—they rolled up 345 yards from scrimmage in 49 plays.

Not even with such a brilliant performance by the backfield could the line be overshadowed. They held Erskine’s speedy backs in check, and when the game was over, figures showed that they had thrown them for a net loss of 11 yards from rushing. The Seceders gained 30 yards but on the other hand lost 41. Bob Benfield, Harry Gasteiger, Bill Johnston, Poss McLean, and Capt. Dave Warden, to say nothing of the rest of the linemen, played good defensive ball—the best they have played this year.

The varsity, even though they did put on such a fine show Friday afternoon, had nothing on the freshmen. Coach Red Laird has a fine array of talent, probably the best in recent years. Wingate Junior College was no match for them. Spencer, Hackney, Yoder, Simonds, Shannon, Fetzer, and Aarseth will all form good material for next year’s varsity backfield. The play of Bell, Strandwitz, Knoeller, and Caldwell looked good in the line. Even with all this material and their impressive win over the Junior College, they will have a tough time here this coming Friday when they meet Duke’s powerful Blue Imps. They beat Wake Forest's Deaclets 20-13, after the latter had swamped a North Carolina yearling squad. Watch out.

Students who witnessed the V. M. I.-Clemson classic in Charlotte last Saturday expressed the opinion that it was one of the best games they had ever witnessed. Clemson was rated by scribes to take the game in easy fashion, but V. M. I. played inspiring football to tie the Tigers. That reminds us of one thing: Davidson will play the Cadets here on Homecoming day. Paul Shu and Andy Trzeciak, to say nothing of Kud Kovar, are three of the finest backs ever to trot on the turf at Memorial Stadium. Davidson will have plenty of trouble with this team.

While on the subject of Clemson, Doc Huff, a local druggist who attended that institution, is one of the most ardent followers of the team. Last week he said, “they haven't got a thing.” Now he says, “I told you so.” But those Clemson boys have it even if they did let V. M. I. earn a tie with them.

Last week this columnist made a futile attempt to pick winners of last Saturday's games. But after hearing the scores Saturday night, no attempt was made to see how the guesses were. Also, several members of the student body didn’t agree with the selections, so this week new hands will attempt to “guess” the outcome. If you don’t agree with the selection, see either Rut Miller, Harry Gasteiger, or Blair Miller (all from Tennessee). They picked them:

DAVIDSON over South Carolina
FORDHAM over Purdue
TENNESSEE over Alabama
CORNELL over Syracuse
DUKE over Ga. Tech
KENTUCKY over W. & Lee
VANDERBILT over Miss.
TULANE over Rice
IOWA over U. of Chicago
OKLAHOMA over U. of Kansas
MINNESOTA over Michigan
NEBRASKA over Indiana U
NORTHWESTERN over Ohio State
NOTRE DAME over Pittsburgh
WASHINGTON STATE over Oregon State
N.C. STATE over Wake Forest
CAROLINA over New York U.
ARMY over Harvard
ILLINOIS over Santa Clara

Seniors and Juniors Are Finalists In Intramurals

Sophomores and Freshmen Drop Out of Running

The intramural touch football race has finally narrowed down to the seniors and juniors who battled it out yesterday on the freshman field. Both of these teams have four wins in the “won” column and one in the “lost” column.

Two games were run off last Tuesday, and in the first game, the seniors beat the freshmen by the score of 6-0. The game was tight all the way with a long pass from “Swede” Johnson to Charlie Sample being the deciding margin.

The second game was a thriller from start to finish with the juniors finally conquering the sophomores 6-0. Right at the beginning of the game, the juniors took the ball and in five plays scored a touchdown on a pass from Means to Chetwood. The sophs started clicking soon though, and although they scored more first downs than did the juniors, they did not have that punch. In the last few minutes of play, the sophs had the ball on the junior two-yard line, but the game ended before they could score.

In the only other game last week, the juniors eked out a win over a battling freshman team. The frosh had the edge all the way when the juniors got hot and scored three first downs to overcome the frosh’s two. The deciding factor was a 15-yard penalty on the freshmen that gave the juniors their final first down.

On Monday, the seniors avenged an earlier defeat by winning over the sophs 6-0. The sophs took the lead early in the game by scoring several first downs, and they continued gaining first downs in the second half. But with about six minutes left in the game, Johnson faded back and threw a beautiful looping pass to Bill Boyd who caught it on the dead run and outdistanced his pursuers to score the only touchdown of the game.

The trouble with waiting for something to turn up is that in the meantime, you are likely to get turned down.

Big Five

Big Five standings remained unchanged over the weekend as all teams played outside the conference. However, two intersectional games gave some indication of the comparative power of the leaders, Carolina and Duke.

The University of North Carolina suffered its first defeat at the hands of the Tulane Green Wave by a 17-14 score. With the game close all the way, Carolina was somewhat handicapped by Lalanne’s leg injury and the fact that George Stirnweiss had just come out of the hospital. Duke chalked up a 7-0 win over Colgate in another intersectional battle as the big Blue Devils staved off goal line threats while they themselves pushed one marker over on power plays.

Wake Forest eked out a win over South Carolina after the Gamecocks scored twice on intercepted passes. Wake Forest clearly had the edge otherwise. State showed great defensive strength as they held the mighty Alabama Crimson Tide to a 14-0 score. However, State’s backs were unable to gain against the heavy Alabama forward line.

Coach Gene McEver used almost every man on the Davidson squad as the Wildcats decisively whipped Erskine 33-0. The Davidson team has two weeks left to prepare for its next Big Five game, that with Carolina at home.

To committeemen pondering how to secure jobs for the idle...I'd suggest a conference with Ma on how she manages it on Pa’s day off. Civilization is built on profits, and business, as a matter of right, is entitled to a profit if it serves. The greater the public service, the greater should be the profits. Only an effort of will divides the scatter-brained from those who can really concentrate.

MORROW’S Radio Shop
Mooresville, North Carolina
ANNOUNCES
A Change in the Style of their firm
To MORROW & STONESTREET
Their service now covers both domestic and commercial refrigeration in addition to their usual radio service. Mr. Reece Stonestreet will be in charge of refrigeration service. Three full-time, well-trained, and experienced men are at your disposal, and properly equipped to render a high-grade service on practically any household appliances, such as refrigerators, radios, washers, ironers, vacuum cleaners, oil-burning heaters, electric fans, etc. To buy from a service organization means a good installation originally and dependable maintenance thereafter, therefore, for your appliance needs either sales or service call Morrow & Stonestreet.
Phones: Day 224, night 4107—1249
Store and Shop Hotel Bldg.
Mooresville, N. C. (Adv).

STATE THEATRE
Mooresville, N. C.
Wed. Oct. 12-5
Test Pilot
With Myrna Loy, Clark Gable, Spencer Tracy
Thurs-Fri. Oct. 13-14
Edward G. Robinson
The Amazing Dr. Clitterhouse
Mon-Tues. Oct. 17-18
Three Loves Has Nancy
Janet Gaynor, Franchot Tone, Robert Montgomery

WEDNESDAY, OCT. 12, 1938
THE DAVIDSONIAN
Wildcats vs. Gamecocks Is Sumter Fair Highlight
Page Four

They Carry the Mail
Bill Davis and Archie Steed proved their worth last Saturday against Erskine as both opened up with into pay dirt.

Kit Harriers Run In Meet
Davidson's freshman cross-country team will meet the University of North Carolina yearlings in Davidson on October 22 in their season opener. The team that will meet the Carolina frosh will be chosen probably from among the following first-year men: Bob Washburn, Charlie Watt, Dick Coppedge, Ed Garrou, Charlie Webb, Joe Whitton, Elmer Bishop, John Talmadge, Murray Harlan, Jim Mann, and E. H. Smith. Much of this year’s material has come from the ranks of the cake-race winners, with the men winning the first nine places in the annual classic out for the frosh team. The Wildkitten harriers will meet the Davidson B team this week.

Statistics
Davidson's backs, long held in check by heavier opposing lines, finally came into their own Friday as they reeled off 330 yards consistent gains and several long runs. Steed scored twice in this game, once via a 65-yard dash and later by a 27-yard run. Davis scored in the third quarter after a march brought the ball far. Davis’ passes have gone for better than 50%.

Kittens Lick Wingate 31-2
Play Duke Frosh Friday
Big Yearling Line Standout in Defensive Play
Wingate Junior College fell before the onslaught of the Davidson Wildkittens last Thursday afternoon on Richardson Field by the score of 31-2. Flashing a smooth running and passing attack the freshmen completely outclassed their heavier opponents by scoring in every quarter. The flashy broken field running of Spencer and Hackney, and the powerful line plunging of Stan Marsh, Charlie Alcott, and Elmer Telford filled with action all the way. Snead, left end of the visitors, was outstanding in the Wingate line. After receiving the opening kickoff the frosh opened a drive that carried them to the Wingate 5-yard line in the first minutes play, and although repulsed twice they kept knocking at touchdown's door until they crossed the goal for the first touchdown. From then on the Wildkitten attack could not be repulsed, and two or more touchdowns were scored in the other three quarters. The feature line play of the day was furnished by Captain George Knoeler.

Kits to Meet Blue Imps
On Friday the Wildkittens will tackle a strong Duke freshman team here. The Blue Imps are reported to have the strongest team in recent years, and they have proved this fact by defeating the Wake Forest freshmen 20-13. The “Deaclets” have since beaten Carolina 38-0. Bill Wartman, who starred last year with the championship Charlotte Central high school team, is looking good for the Dukes. Lacy Brame, a former star on Reidsville’s team, is one of the bulwarks of the line.

NEW! BOWLING ALLEY NOW IN DAVIDSON
15 FREE Games to Person Suggesting Name for these Alleys
Drop Your Suggestion in Box Provided at Alleys BEFORE MONDAY
Four New alleys in old Telephone Bldg.
Ladies Cordially Invited
10c TO EVERYONE

FAUL & CRYMES, Inc.
Sporting Goods
415 SOUTH TRYON STREET
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Davidson's punting department, however, out-[Continued on Page Six]

All-Class Teams
This year’s inter-class football tournament was unique in the number of close decisions that have decided the winners. Following are the All-Class selections as picked by Junior Alcorn and Johnny Tice:

First Team
End—Sink .......... Frosh
Tackle—J. Sample ...... Sen
Center—Monger ........ Sen.
Tackle—Brinson ........ Sophs
End—Turner .......... Sophs
Back—C. Sample ...... Sen.
Back—Means .......... Jun.
Back—Hunter .......... Jun.
Back—Yarborough ...... Frosh

Second Team
End—Dale .......... Sophs
Tackle—Woodward ...... Frosh
Center—Fry .......... Jun.
Tackle—Scarborough ...... Jun.
End—Boyd .......... Sen.
Back—Johnson ........ Sen.
Back—Williams ........ Sophs
Back—Rose .......... Frosh
Back—Scott .......... Jun.

Woodward Is Made Captain
At a meeting of the cross-country varsity last week, Dave Woodward was elected captain for the season. Bill Telford will serve as alternate captain. The harriers will open their schedule Saturday against Duke's Blue Devils in Durham. Davidson won this meet handily last year and will be favored heavily to repeat. The harriers will later appear at home against the University of North Carolina and Guilford College. They will also meet Washington and Lee at Lexington, Va. and probably either South Carolina or V. P. I. before the Southern Conference at Chapel Hill on Nov. 19. Captain Woodward is also a letterman in track, starring in the mile and two-mile runs. This year he has assumed the job of coaching the frosh cross-country team. Telford is a two-year veteran of both cinderpath and cross-country.

Time-trials determine the make-up of the team for each meet. Men running against Duke are Captain Woodward, Boo Walker, Bill Telford, Bob Kellog, Dick Gammon, and Bill Lemmon, Eldridge Brown.

Thousands for Mellon’s Suits
And small wonder, they’re the best looking suits you’ve ever seen... single or double-breasted, plain or sport back, and plenty of three-button drapes. The materials are particularly smart. Come in and look them over.
Suits $18.50 to $32.50
Topcoats $15.50 to $25.00
Bush Coats $3.50 to $4.50
Slacks $2.95 to $5.00
Sweaters $2.95 to $5.00
Mellon Co.
106-108 W. Trade St., Charlotte

Wildcats Overwhelm Erskine With Steed And Davis As Stars
Seceders Threaten Late in Game With Passes — Every Man On Squad Used in Rampage — Steed Leads With Two Markers
A surging, black-jerseyed horde of Davidson Wildcats, scoring in every period, overwhelmed an Erskine team that could plot no defense to stop them here last Friday afternoon by a 33-0 count. Davidson ran and passed her way to victory over her lighter opponents behind excellent blocking. Bill Davis and Archie Steed shone as the Wildcat tailbacks with Bill Bolin doing a great job of blocking. Tubby Hand cracked the line for first downs time and again while Fred Stair helped vary the attack with some fancy pass-snagging.

The Wildcats’ first score came midway the first period, when Davis and Hand advanced the ball from Erskine’s 38 to their 4 in six plays, where the hard-driving Hand plunged over to score. In the opening minutes of the third period Archie Steed circled his right end, cut back to pick up blockers, and raced 65 yards to score the 'Cats’ second marker. Hand converted to make the score 13-0 at the half.

Last Half
Bill Davis passed to Ned Iverson for 40 yards in the third quarter to set the stage for Davidson's third touchdown. Davis drove it over in three tries from the Erskine 20. Late in the third period Davis pitched one again, this time to Stair who caught the 20 yd. toss and raced the remaining 15 to score. Hand’s conversion made the count stand at 26-0. The final score came after Steed, Beaty, and Harrison had lugged the pigskin downfield to the Erskine 28. Steed scored around left end on the next play for his second touchdown of the day. Hand dropkicked the extra point to make the score stand at 33-0. The Seceders threatened twice [Continued on Page Six]

COUGHS, TICKLE
Huskiness Due to Colds
MEDICATED BATH GIVES QUICK RELIEF
Tormented with throat huskiness, dryness, coughs due to colds? Let a Vicks Cough Drop dissolve naturally in your mouth. It bathes tender throat tissues with soothing medication for 12 to 15 minutes, and comforting relief comes fast. Because Vicks are really medicated... medicated with the throat-soothing ingredients of Vicks VapoRub famous for relieving discomforts due to colds. MEDICATED VICKS COUGH DROPS