Page Two The Davidsonian

Founded By the Class of 1915

1937-1938 Member, Associated Collegiate Press

Distributor of Collegiate Digest

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY National Advertising Service, Inc. College Publishers Representative 420 MADISON Ave New York, N.Y. Chicago -
Boston - Los Angeles - San Francisco

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879.

DICK VOWLES Editor-in-Chief

CHARLES MOORE Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF Fitzhugh Dade, Ovid Bell, Calvin Teel Porter - Managing Editor Perry Sloan - Managing Editor Bill Marquess -
Sports Editor Owen Cooke - Associate Editor Sam Cothran - Associate Editor Euclid Fant - Associate Editor Hector McGe -
Associate Editor Yates Faison - Associate Editor Sam Ryburn - Art Editor Henry Baker - Movie Editor

BUSINESS STAFF Bill Hill - Collection Manager Wesley Conn - Advertising Manager Bill Miller - Asst. Advertising Manager Andy Turner
- Circulation Manager Terrell Porter - Circulation Manager

The true, strong and sound mind is the mind that can embrace equally great things and small.

We express our deepest sympathy to Prof. Lewis Schenck in the recent loss of his mother.

Orchid to Fort... We take off our hats to “Babe” Fort for the brief but explosive demonstration in chapel Tuesday
morning. His remarks, pointed and blunt as they deserved to be, will probably accomplish what we have hoped would be
accomplished for some time. The student body deserved a “dressing down” for its action at basketball games and got it.

Art Exhibit... We had always been led to believe that the arts had very little place in the minds and
interests of students at Davidson. In that we were quite wrong. The overwhelming attendance at the student art exhibit proved
that conclusively. The majority of the students and the faculty, and a large number of townspeople attended.

Of course, the exhibit was amateurish. It could not be otherwise. It was the first thing of its kind ever
held at Davidson. Most of the works exhibited were done hurriedly in an attempt to make the deadline of the
exhibit. And still it was a success. Many of the pictures displayed were excellent and drew favorable comment. That, however,
is not important. The importance lies in the fact that it is a beginning. It is a precedent. It is
an awakening of interest among student artists and it is an awakening of art appreciation in the average student who
is not himself artistically inclined. And the exhibit was certainly in accord with the spirit of Davidson College in its
encouragement of the fine arts.

A Social Center?... Last week a rather unusual but excellent idea came to us through a member of the junior
class, John Mawhinney. The recent announcement that a new library would be the next addition to the campus prompted the
thought. The idea is this: that the old library, when vacated, could and should be turned into a social center,
if not permanently, at least temporarily, since the erection of a social center seems to be in the very remote
future. It was suggested that the lower rooms be used as reading and lounging rooms, with more comfortable furniture added.
A piano and radio for general use could be kept in one of these lower rooms. Upstairs, where the stacks
now are, the concrete floors would provide a fine base for billiard and ping-pong tables. It was suggested that, if
necessary, a partition could be taken out, allowing more space upstairs. These upstairs rooms, and perhaps even the basement rooms,
could be used for club and honorary fraternity meetings. In other words, although the library is small it would fulfill
most of the needs.

From Our Notebook A little insight into faculty life came our way the other day in a note left by
mistake in a returned library book. It read: “Darling, do you have to read ALL the time?” and was intended
for the keeper of the stacks.

Another “stranger than fiction” case came to us through biology lab assistant, Sam Webb. He swears to its authenticity so
we'll take his word for it. According to Webb, one of the microscopes in the biology lab was so placed
on the desk, that the sun shone directly upon the little mirror on the bottom and the rays reflected up
through the lens of the ‘scope. The beam focused on the black cloth hood used to protect the microscope and
when last seen the cloth was a mass of ashes. You'll have to be more careful where you put your
microscopes next time, Webb.

Sam Ryburn has an answer for anything, even if it is business psychology. Said Dr. Hood: “What are some of
the outstanding things you want about a car?” Replied knowing Ryburn: “A steering wheel, doctor.” Ryburn explained to us recently
the reason for Carolina’s double jointed frosh wrestler. Said Ryburn: “His mother was frightened by a pretzel.”

You have your ten rules how to keep healthy, wealthy, and we have ours too, but we have one better
than all the rest, and you'll agree. Our one rule is “Don’t drink coffee for breakfast because it's liable to
keep you awake during class.”

Once upon a time Horace was walking through the kitchen late at night. It was dark and Horace couldn’t see.
As Horace passed the bread board on the old cupboard he heard a sound. He stopped. He heard it again.
He stayed stopped and peeled an ear. Then he turned on the light and saw a breadcrumb on the board.
“What did you say little tidbit?” murmured Horace. Then the little crumb looked up at Horace and murmured back “what
food we morsels be.” Moral: It'll get you in the long run.

Heard at the student art exhibit sponsored by the rag: “I can't get any more out of that than the
artist put in it, and I don't want that.” “I wish somebody would explain this to me.” “I don’t see
where he got the name ‘Peasant Girl’.”

From Campus to Campus (By Associated Collegiate Press) The University of Florida’s Radio Guild has announced plans for the formation
of a National Radio Guild, an organization designed to stimulate greater achievement in the field of radio drama by the
syndication and exchange of original scripts and ideas free of charge. Invitations to join have been sent to 20 colleges
and universities operating their own radio stations. The new guild is designed to unify the work of different radio drama
groups in colleges all over the country.

Wesleyan College will go on the auction block March 1. The institution has been advertised for sale to satisfy bonds
totaling $998,000, but classes will not be interrupted. Wesleyan is the first chartered Methodist school for women and last fall
entered its 102nd year of operations with an enrollment of 307. An attempt will be made to sell the grounds,
buildings and equipment, following rejection of a proposed settlement of the bonds for $350,000. Negotiations with bondholders have been under
way for about two years.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Letters to the Editor (Letters over 300 words in length will not be considered for publication. Names will be withheld
if desired).

STUDENTS TRY TO ESCAPE DAVIDSON...

Dear Dick:

RORU in the past few weeks has written to The Davidsonian some rather interesting letters, and in spite of his
fierceness, they did contain some truth. But I wonder if RORU or other students on the campus have stopped to
realize why existing conditions on the campus in any activity you can name are such: I admit that this seems
rather sophomoric, but that is to be expected. We are not interested in politics, strikes, world conditions, etc. or doing
anything about them, because “we weren’t brung up right.” Very few students here at Davidson come from mill homes, so
why should they be interested, or those of us from Yankee-land are not too well acquainted with the city slums,
so again passiveness. War is too distant an affair for many of us to arouse interest in and not until
our own toes are stepped on will we squeal. Our local news-rag, The Observer, is not very helpful in aiding
us in discriminating between important and less important things of life. They use the same size head whether it’s the
war in China or the Yankees in the World Series.

To attack other fields, let us take our apparent growing disinterest in religion. It is not apathy for religion but
dislike of the type found at Davidson which seems to offer the student nothing which he needs. Institutionalized religion does
little to help us in our daily problems. We are not treated as part of the church but more like
weekend guests. An album of pictures taken during chapel and vespers might prove this point better than my words.

The growing fad seems to be to escape Davidson rather than to assimilate it. This is indicated by the growing
tendency to leave on weekends. And there is much to escape. But unfortunately they return to the campus with even
worse possessions. There has been spreading an attitude of bad manners that is a disgrace to anything or anybody anywhere,
that calls itself gentlemanly. We are disrespectful to the President of the college, to our guests and our fellow students.
This attitude, if increased, will do more harm to the college than anything else possibly could. It is expressed in
two words too frequently heard ... “So what.”

The college well expressed itself in a recent bulletin sent to prospective students. “Times Change, Davidson Stands.” How true this
is and how unappealing to high school seniors. Until Davidson dares to use the word progressive and to promote future.Toward
staying on the campus, if recreation were provided thus, the desire and need of a social center would be fulfilled
much sooner. Of course, it is only a suggestion, but it has possibilities. And by using the library to get
out of its cell of isolation, the conditions that BORU has complained of will continue to exist. Sincerely, —GEORGE L.
MILNE, '40.

LAFFERTY COMMENTS ON FROSH VOTE...

Dear Dick:

In expressing my personal views, entirely apart from my official office, I say that I am in favor of the
freshmen having a vote in student government affairs. Up until very recent years, that class had this privilege, and I
feel sure that if it were given to the freshmen again, we would acquire a greater unity of cooperation in
student government and in building up a better Davidson.
—MARTIN L. LAFFERTY.

ADVISOR FAVORS FRESHMEN VOTING...

Dear Editor:

My acquaintance with the present freshman class has led me to believe that the point about freshmen voting is well
taken. In class affairs, the freshmen have shown a sense of judgment and a capacity for careful thought that justifies
this change in our student government.
—WATSON STREET.

BORU RENEWS OLD ISSUE...

Quite a large number of the members of the student body have failed entirely to get the point of these
letters, due largely to the clumsy style of the writer. Many think these efforts to be those of just another
habitual critic and fault-finder, who would have been very unhappy at some perfect school where there would have been nothing
to “gripe” about. But those who hold to this opinion have missed the reason for these efforts, which are made
solely in the interest of “a better Davidson.” The writer's feelings are best expressed in these words of the immortal
Horace: “Hominem non odi sed ejus vitia.”

What ought to be changed this week? The answer — not a new one, but one which has been harped
upon before. GIVE BACK THE FRESHMAN VOTE! Student body sentiment has evidently changed since the freshman franchise was last considered
by the students. In The Davidsonian column, “The Question of the Week,” only one man out of five questioned, a
reasonable cross-section of the student body, opposed the return to former conditions. Not only that, but other indications point to
a change of heart on the part of the student body. Since the first letter, there has been heard essentially
no unfavorable comment on the change, the allies outnumbering the opponents by a majority even greater than the four-to-one of
the “Question” column. In view of the obviously indicated student body support of a constitutional amendment, enabling freshmen to vote
in the elections at the end of their freshman year, the student council is called upon to give the student
body an opportunity to express itself upon this question.

Popular misunderstanding of last week's proposals requires a brief explanation of the term, “controlled politics.” Whatever be its form, a
system is needed which will present to the student body the qualifications of the nominees for election before (Continued on
Page Six)

Records—Victor, Brunswick, Decca Bluebird—35¢ & 75¢ Each Any Record Not in Stock PARKER-GARDNER CO. PHONE 8257 Since 1898 Can Be
Quickly Secured Charlotte, N. C.

The Setting... College gym with Clemson game in progress... The actors — certain ill-bred, addle-brained screamo-maniacs... The action — a
disgusting exhibition of technique in the vice of booing and hissing. Result — complete humiliation for every self-respecting Davidson man
present. Too many pleas for good sportsmanship have been made already, and since that proves useless, this is not one;
for so help me, at the first occasion, I intend to take the name of every guy even puckering his
lips to boo and publicly expose him for what he is — a cheap, annoying, offensive exhibitionist who perpetrates his
loudness only in the shelter of a crowd. It would be unfortunate to defile even a dirt column with such
vermin, but I shall certainly do it.

Thinking about those degenerates leaves a bad taste in my mouth... A rollicking one is the censored tale of Rooster
John McQueen of the Royal Mounted — maybe he'll tell you the story... My lips are sealed.

The LOVE ME LOVE MY CAR boys, Betty and Snelling, with Charlotte dates experienced difficulty in pushing their antiquated model
along... Tom Creighton with six ft. of concentrated femininity complacently enjoyed the situation... Ned Iverson passed a pleasant weekend sightseeing
in Charleston with the delightful Miss Steel — and I wonder why we lost to Citadel...

About this thing BORU (knowing the dictionary definition of my roommate’s name, BARROW, it must be some strange sort of
prehistoric monstrosity) — it sounds like an anthropoid friend of Tarzan. When a guy hops us like Boru has, he
should be more lenient in his choice of pseudonym. Doesn't he like his own name, or is there some dark
shame in his life that even I don't know about... Some of his views hit home, but he’s dead wrong
concerning Davidson campus leaders. Davidson is one of the very few places where the right gents get the medals —
but then maybe Boru has been disappointed politically...

Three mad young men pulled a typical Thorne Smith weekend — Grinning Green (RL), Fox Tomlinson, and Lost Lillard (money
bags of Phi Delt and Annual opened freely) aided avidly by Ben Beal as they whirled rabidly, “Mash on the
go-pedal, Ben”... Our amorous friend Holt again involved, this time at Greensboro College when enamored date out too late... Torrey
McLean and Alex Erwin also guests in the fair city with overabundance of fortitude — Amazon Country...

Square dance at Caldwell Corners — YMCA noticeably absent — Affair resembled Phi Delt convention: Jig Lee, Loshy Hunter, Hail
Harmon, unCautious Cothran, Revel Williams, KV Lawson, PS Cooper, and Gish na’ Gilmore — all chaperoned very nicely by PD
dietitian. Hector McGeachy went to ladylove in Fayetteville and upon return, has perused with untiring vigilance: “Lessons in Love,” the
new serial running in The Charlotte Observer...

Incidentally, a hint to Bounder. To Converse: Bob Abel (looka here now, fellow) with Mayor Bailey, long ignored “News” Taylor
with Peggy Cleveland, Bosco Marian with Betty McCall, “Jeep” Gladden with Janet Propst, and Gil Palmer, constancy itself, with Sarah
Glenn... also understand Bill Lemmon, Tom Perrin, and Pete McKnight there — the latter creating some furor in local hotels.

Get behind Fred Smith's Beaver Club reorganization, and let's show the junior college men coming up for the tournament the
real Davidson... and teach this BOOHOO gink something about Davidson spirit, and maybe he’ll quit blowing off so confounded much.
Personally, I went to Greensboro dateless and did nothing...

DOTS AND DASHES...

Great news: the college reports that they have money enough for a building and a half. The first is to
be a library and then a science building. If they get the other half...

“The Hurricane” recommended as one of the better shows of the new year... The students turned out very well for
the concert last week and most of them enjoyed it. One thing, however, stood out like a sore thumb and
that was the fact that several of the students wore sweaters and no ties. Seriously, everybody has at least one
suit and at a concert where evening dresses and tuxedoes are worn by some of the visitors is certainly the
place for a suit and tie at least...

Who is this ‘BORU’ creature? Why doesn’t he come out in the open? Most of the eighty missing books from
the library are books with religious themes; page the Ministerial Band... An expert declares that “motherhood is the best profession
for women.” And it has the advantage of being free from male competition.

A GREAT COMPLIMENT — “I met a man on the street yesterday, and he took me for Governor Hoey.” “That's
nothing, a man took me for something higher last week.” “Did he take you for Vice President Garner?” “No. Up
higher.” “For the President himself?” “No, He tapped me very kindly on my shoulder and said, ‘Mein Gott! is it
you?’”

ON THE CAMPUS — Many boys visited and enjoyed the student art exhibit. The painting ‘Peasant Girl’ was the big
thing of the exhibit. Have you noticed flowers blooming and the trees budding on the campus? — Taking a long
walk is suggested as the best way of spending that long Sunday afternoon. About half the student body was seen
this past Sunday either on the golf course or the Concord Road, and what weather!

THUMB NAIL SKETCH — Again yes it’s happened again. Another person from East Tennessee has broken into print. They must
have something over there besides child marriages that turn out real men, for this person seems to me to be
pretty well on the way to manhood. He also indulges in his favorite hillbilly songs whenever the right chance comes
and has even appeared on a chapel program to render us a song. Incidentally, he is reputed to be quite
some shakes as a football player and has one more year to play. In his own words, he tells us
his intelligence is only surpassed by his good looks. A quiet but friendly person, he is what one would call
a swell fellow. Ask him what he knows about Raymond. Will come when called ‘House of David’ or ‘Bob Johnson's
roommate.’ There is a rumor that he is captain of the football team.

Shampoo and Finger Wave___50¢ Cleanup Facials___75¢ WISTERIA BEAUTY SALON Davidson, N. C.

SPECIALS

Low prices on candid shots

ROLLS DEVELOPED

Rolls of Kodak film developed, eight never-fade Velox prints for only 25¢ (COIN). Handy mailing envelopes furnished. VALUABLE PREMIUMS GIVEN.
MAIL YOUR FILMS TO Jack Rabbit Co. SPARTANBURG, S.C.
