Page Six

THE DAVIDSONIAN

WEDNESDAY, JAN. 12, 1938

Capable Staff In Charge

Congratulations

TO
Davidson College
on its
New Infirmary
From

Davidson's "Service Drug Store"

College Pharmacy

Phone 93... Your prescriptions called
for and delivered.

Story of Infirmary Staff

Doctor in Charge Has Degrees From Davidson and Maryland, Has Studied Abroad, and Was
Prominent in Medical Service to U. S. Army During World War; Has Served on
North Carolina Board of Medical Examiners

An efficient staff, composed of Dr. John W. MacConnell and Mrs. Sara D. Johnston, will be in charge
of treatment of students and other patients at the new Infirmary.

Dr. John W. MacConnell has been in charge of the college health service since 1908, when he was made
a full professor at Davidson. Dr. MacConnell holds B.S. and M.A. degrees from Davidson, and M.D. from
the University of Maryland. He did graduate work at Columbia University in New York and at the Royal
College of Surgeons in Edinburgh, Scotland. He was for a year resident surgeon of the Presbyterian Eye
and Ear Hospital at Baltimore. From 1908 to 1917 Dr. MacConnell was Professor of Biology at Davidson,
teaching elementary and advanced classes in Zoology and Comparative Anatomy. Notable among his student
laboratory assistants during this period are Dr. R. S. Cunningham, now Professor of Anatomy at University
of Rochester; Dr. E. L. Bishop, head of Steiner Cancer Clinic in Atlanta; and Dr. J. T. Wearn, Dean of the
Medical Department of Western Reserve University.

From 1917 to 1920 Dr. MacConnell served in the Medical Corps U. S. Army. His first service was on
the Mexican border as Lieutenant in a field hospital. Then he was made Captain and was in charge of ear and
throat service at Camp Jackson for nearly a year. He was then promoted to Major and went overseas to an
active surgical service on the Meuse River during the Battles of Argonne.

After the Armistice he was made
Lieutenant-Colonel and came home in charge of 1,300 sick and wounded on the S. S. Manchuria. Among
highlights of his service was the time when he was introduced to Albert, King of Belgium, who thanked
him personally for his work among French and Belgian civilians. He saw a good many of his former students among the wounded.

Dr. MacConnell was for six years executive officer of the North Carolina Board of Medical Examiners, and on the National Federation Board.

Mrs. A. B. Robson was nurse in charge of the Infirmary from 1908 to last year, when she was retired,
loved and honored by many students under her care.

Mrs. Sara D. Johnston is now the nursing superintendent at the Infirmary, and is well prepared for the
position. She is a graduate of Levy's Sanatorium, and has done extra laboratory work and is an able technician. Extra nurses will be employed when the need arises.

CONGRATULATIONS

On Davidson’s Newest Asset

Infirmary

Coal stoker, electric range and refrigerator installed in the
New Davidson Infirmary by
Page-Williamson, Inc.
CONTROLLED TEMPERATURE SPECIALISTS
228 West First Street Charlotte, N. C.

Our Plant
is happy in its part in the erection of Davidson’s Beautiful Infirmary ... We congratulate
Davidson College, its alumni and friends ... on so splendid an addition to its equipment.

Standard Printing Co.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
PUBLISHERS OF THE DAVIDSONIAN

We Wish to Offer Our
Congratulations
To Davidson College on its
New Infirmary

The opening of the new infirmary marks the beginning of a new era of service to the students of Davidson College. The infirmary will be in charge of Dr. John W. MacConnell and Mrs. Sara D. Johnston, as infirmary nurse.

Staple and Fancy Groceries
Country Produce
PHONE NO. 20 DAVIDSON, N. C.

Congratulations

Applications for admission to Davidson
College for 1938-39 are now being received.
Registration so far is running ahead of last
year’s record and full quota of new students
is assured.

It is a pleasure to announce that this institution has just gone into another milestone in its successful banking. We wish our many friends at Davidson a very prosperous 1938.

Commercial National Bank
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
R. A. DUNN, Chairman
I. W. STEWART, President

Congratulations

Davidson College
ON YOUR
Beautiful New
COLLEGE INFIRMARY

Standard Plumbing Fixtures
American Radiator Heating
SUPPLIED BY
Hajoca Corporation
Charlotte, N.C.