Wednesday, November 30, 1938
THE DAVIDSONIAN
Page Five

Dr. Lyon Lectures On Love In Final Speech
Takes Text From I. Corinthians In Third of Series of Sunday Talks

Last Sunday morning Dr. S. C. Lyon concluded his series of lectures in Sunday School. The subjects for the first
two lessons were “Faith” and “Hope.” Last Sunday’s lesson was on “Love.” Dr. Lyon took his text from I. Corinthians
13.

Faith Necessary

As Dr. Lyon stated in his previous messages, Faith is necessary for a belief in all intellectual knowledge including a
belief in God. Although we cannot prove the very existence of God, we are justified in having a rational Hope
through the observations on the organization of Nature. The existence of Love is more important than either Faith or Hope.

Although the existence of love is impossible to be proved, its very existence is doubted by nobody. Nobody doubts the
love of a mother for a child. No scientist would dare deny that love is more real and is a
more deciding factor than any of the transcendental facts such as energy, space, matter, or time. The properties of these
elements are measured by such devices as the foot rule, the pound, or the minute. The properties of Love are
infinite and can only be compared to a beautiful picture or a symphony of music.

In closing, Dr. Lyon quoted I Corinthians 13:13, stressing the use of the word “abideth.” “But now abideth Faith, Hope,
Love, these three; and the greatest of these is Love.”

Sigma Upsilon Hears Papers
Program Assignments For Next Meetings Given

Sigma Upsilon, the honorary literary fraternity, met at the Beta Theta Pi chapter house Tuesday evening, November 22, at 9
o'clock. Members of the faculty present were: Dr. W. W. Hood, Dr. W. P. Cumming, Prof. H. T. Lilley, Prof.
E. J. Erwin, and Prof. C. G. Davidson. The attending students were: Morrow, Lipfert, Stair, Holland, Ramsey, Hudson, Scott, Perrin,
Spencer, and Newell.

Rome Morrow read a short story entitled “Nihil,” contrasting the dullness of life itself; Fred Stair read an essay, “American
Living vs. America,” a satire on football; Bob Ramsey presented the fragment of a yet to be completed poem praising
the pantheistic qualities for inspiration; Jack Holland read a chapter he wrote for the novel being written by the fraternity,
and Neal Scott presented his initiatory paper, a short story.

The programs fall under four heads: A, a short story; B, an essay; C, poetry or book review; D, a
novel. The following are those responsible for the programs of the next four meetings: A, Dr. W. P. Cumming; B,
Prof. C. G. Davidson; C, Prof. E. J. Erwin; D, Sam Newell. A, Bill Marquess; B, Dr. F. W. Johnston;
C, Karl Hudson; D, Gene Lipfert. A, Neal Scott; B, J. Perrin; C, Sam Spencer; D, Prof. E. A. Beaty.
A, Prof. M. T. Lilly; B, Rut Miller; C, Dr. C. K. Brown; D, Dr. W. W. Hood.

Infirmary Has Few Patients

For the past month, Davidson students have been most fortunate in that there has been no serious illness on the
campus. Dr. McConnell reports that everything is moving along fine at the hospital and all cases have been handled capably.
He would give no further statement concerning the nature of any sickness. Most calls have been of a minor nature.

(Continued on Page Six)

GROCERIES HARDWARE RADIOS
M. H. GOODRUM & CO.

Children’s Copes

Children’s Unity Group Is Selected
New Committee Will Direct Recreational Activities

Pre-Med Frat Meets Friday In Beta House
Sherman, Gish, Kornegay, And Lokey To Discuss Phases Of Medicine

Featuring four talks by student members, the regular meeting of Alpha Epsilon Delta, honorary pre-medical fraternity, will be held at
the Beta Theta Pi house Friday night at 8 o’clock.

Four Talks

Charlie Sherman will speak on “Instruments and Technique,” discussing the various implements used in medical and surgical work and the
approved methods of using them. “Ocular Foreign Bodies” will be the subject of an address to the fraternity by Bobby
Gish.

Two other talks will be made dealing with medical schools in the South. Lem Kornegay will speak on Vanderbilt, while
Julian Lokey will discuss another well-known Southern medical school.

The fraternity plans to hold an open meeting soon. The speaker will be a well-known physician, whose name cannot yet
be announced. Any interested students will be welcome at that time, according to President Ed Morrow.

Will Speak At Vespers
Bible Professor at Emory University, Educated At Vanderbilt

Dr. W. A. Smart, of Emory University, Georgia, will be the speaker at next Sunday’s Vesper Services, it has been
announced by Dr. Lingle.

Dr. Smart is an ordained M. E. Minister, and is noted as both a clergyman and educator. He attended college
at Vanderbilt University in Nashville, Tennessee, and later went to Union Theological Seminary. He took graduate courses at Southern Methodist
and Ohio Wesleyan.

Former Pastorates

His first pastorate was located at Lynchburg, Virginia. From there he was transferred to Duke. For the past several years
he has been professor of Bible and theology at Emory. During his college days he was bid to both Phi
Beta Kappa and Omicron Delta Kappa.

This will be the last regular speaker to appear at Vespers before Christmas. Sunday after next the regular Christmas program
will be presented.

AMONG THE GREEKS

Beta Theta Pi

Brothers Ed Morrow and Burch Granville spent the weekend in Reidsville where they stayed at the home of Pledge Burch.
Brothers Holt Barwell and Sharpe attended the Duke-Pitt game in Durham and spent Saturday night in Reidsville. Pledge Fetzer went
to his home in Concord. Brothers McClintock and Abbott took off for a weekend tour over the holidays.

Kappa Alpha

Brother Sam Newell attended the Army-Navy game in Philadelphia. Brother Arnold was among the few privileged to attend the Pan-Hellenic
Council convention in New York City. Brothers Pratt and Winters went to the Tech-Georgia game in Athens, Ga., while Brother
Calvin journeyed to the Duke-Pitt game in Durham. Brother Paul McGarity went home for the holidays during the weekend.

Kappa Sigma

Brothers Scott, Hunter, Hill, Wyatt, Hudson, and Raymond attended the Duke-Pitt classic in Durham. Brother Jonas went deer hunting in
Pisgah National Forest. Brothers Black and Gaw went home to Greensboro. Brother Raymond Pittman attended the National Pan-Hellenic Council convention
in New York City. Pledges Clark and Kelly attended the Duke-Pitt game.Duke-Pitt game. Brother Oglesby took an extended trip to
points of interest in the Carolinas. Phi Gamma Delta Most of the brothers left the campus for the weekend, with
Brothers Stair and Brewer attending the Army-Navy game in Philadelphia and visiting Brother Bill Kiesewetter, class of '38, at his
home in Chalfont, Pa. Brothers Kellogg and Harnsberger also traveled north to Kellogg’s home in Brooklyn. Brothers Shore, Martin, and
Tillotson went home to Winston-Salem and from there to the Duke-Pitt game. Brother Baker went to Greenville, where he visited
Brothers Harding and Harold Sugg. Brothers Stair and Dillard went to their homes in Greensboro for the weekend. Sigma Alpha
Epsilon Brothers Pete Marchant and Mark Bahnson left for Philadelphia where they stayed with Brother Reid Bahnson. They went to
the Army-Navy game. Brother Charlie Smith went to his home in Greenville, S.C. Brothers Mark Cauble and Perry Sloan spent
the weekend in Durham at the home of Brother Sloan and went to the Duke-Pitt game. Brothers Geo. Kicklen and
Shaw Smith went to Mt. Olive for the weekend. Brother Tom Hackney went to the Duke-Pitt game. Sigma Phi Epsilon
Brother Bill Hamilton enjoyed a hospitable weekend at Limestone College. Brothers Charlie Sample, Rufus Plonk, and Felix Bell attended the
Duke-Pitt game while Brother Ed Floyd journeyed to Raleigh for the second time in two weeks. Brothers Tom Galbreath and
Murray Harlan spent the weekend at home in Kinston. Brother Mullen attended the National Pan-Hellenic Council Convention in New York
City. Pi Kappa Alpha Brothers Casey Russell, Toddy McClellan, Perdue, Ables, Marsh, and Pledge Dave Latimer went home for the
Thanksgiving holidays. Many attended the Duke-Pitt game. Friday-Saturday ON THE STAGE A dazzling array of feminine charm! “REVUE MAGNIFICENT” -on
the screen- Johnny “Scat” Davis in “THE CHUMP” Monday The laugh-loaded lowdown on college life! “CAMPUS CONFESSION” —with— Betty Grable
Eleanor Whitney Tuesday Only! IN PERSON The season’s outstanding band attraction The band that has rated tops in all nation-wide
polls for the past 3 years RICHARD HIMBER AND HIS RHYTHMIC PYRAMIDS ORCHESTRA ATTEND MATINEE FOR CHOICE SEATS FOUR SHOWS
ONLY! BROADWAY At Christmas. Plans For Raising Christmas Gift Fund Not Definite As Yet No definite plans have been made
as yet concerning the annual Christmas Gift Fund by the “Y” Cabinet. However, a letter has been received this year
from Dr. R. M. Wilson, medical superintendent of the Biederwolf Leper Colony, Soonchun, Korea asking for the financial support of
Davidson students in aiding lepers. Pictures Received With his letter came pictures of the stricken lepers and information concerning the
disease and the Colony in Soonchun. The Biederwolf Leper Colony is made up of several villages of lepers. Some lepers
are married and have adopted children of the camp and look after them as if they were their own. Portsmouth,
Va. Brother McDonald spent the weekend in Asheville. Brothers Sink, Scott, and Raynal went to Statesville. Brothers Lady, Coltrane, and
Scott journeyed into South Carolina. Brother Oggie Spoon of the class of '38 was a visitor on Thanksgiving day. Pi
Kappa Phi Many of the brothers went home for the Thanksgiving holidays; they were: Brothers Covington, Morgan, Bumbarger, Hite, Hendrick,
and Ivey. Also home went Pledges Morgan, Morris, Suttlemyre, McCall, Mobley, Plunkett, Larkin, and Wyche. Misses Annette and Evelyn, sisters
of Pledge Newt Edwards, were guests of the chapter for the weekend. Brother Hemphill attended the Army-Navy game in Philadelphia.
Brothers Linville and Bumgarner journeyed to a house party in Blowing Rock. Wyche went to the Duke-Pitt game. Flynn went
off to a dance at Salem Academy. Phi Delta Theta On Tuesday night three pledges were initiated into the local
chapter: Gene Vereen, Whitney Reynolds, and Charley MacArthur. The chapter also announced the pledging of Glenn Terrell of the freshman
class. Brothers Vereen, Jim Dunlap, Whitney Reynolds, and Andy Dale went to Atlanta over the weekend. Roy Burton and Jimmy
Morrison spent the weekend at home in Asheville, while Bob Reinhardt, Bill Legrand, Hugh Verner, and John McGeachie also stayed
at their respective homes. Brothers Jack Lee, Bill Boyd, Loch Hunter, Bill Beaty, and Reed Harmon visited Bill LeGrand in
Shelby. Bobby Williams was off to Greensboro for Thanksgiving. Re-Weaving Service Burns and Tears Rewoven 501 Independence Bldg. Charlotte, N.C.
WHERE CAMERA ENTHUSIASTS MEET Holly Smith CAMERA AND PHOTOGRAPHIC SUPPLIES 106 S. Church—Phone 3-4302 CHARLOTTE, N.C. Drink a Quart of
Milk a Day Drink Pasteurized Milk, It’s Safe MOORESVILLE CREAMERY Mooresville, North Carolina Have you ever wondered to whom Dr.
Sentelle’s letters were “dictated but not read?” Has it ever puzzled you how the library, with deadly efficiency, always gets
those little reminders mailed whenever you keep that book out twelve hours too long? Just who stenciled those programs for
the concerts? Who sees that the janitor keeps the floor of your room clean and that you do the rest?
Who does the million and one things, keeps the million and one records, and mails the million and one letters
that go along with the operation of Davidson and Company? Bureaucracy The answer to all this is a small but
dynamic bureaucracy functioning under the title of “Administrative Assistants.” In real life these wizards of red-tape cutting are ten members
of the fair sex, not co-eds but secretaries and assistants. Miss Julia Passmore is librarian in charge of circulation and
magazines. Miss Passmore came to Davidson in 1929 after receiving her science and librarian’s degree from Drexel in Philadelphia. She
has also studied at Woman's College in Greensboro and at Chapel Hill. Miss Passmore, courteous and efficient, said, “The boys
are very nice.” Probably none are more closely connected with the college, however, than Mrs. Frontis Johnston. She is the
daughter, granddaughter, and niece of professors here. Her grandfather was Col. W. A. Smart; her father is Dr. Archibald Currie,
and her uncle is President Emeritus W. J. Martin. Mrs. Johnston began her work here in the summer of 1934
as secretary to Mr. Magill. Her hardest time comes during ticket selling time in the fall. Miss Gladys Malcom Lockhart
has acknowledged to the centennial committee the matter of keeping every subscriber in touch with the college and the people.
“I like my job, and Davidson,” she said. Before coming to Davidson she was associated with Lander College. “My work
is the kind I am most interested in,” Miss Stella Parker said. Miss Parker, as secretary to Mr. Pfohl, comes
in first-hand contact with music. She must catalogue books and music and keep the files in order, in addition to
stenciling radio and concert programs. Miss Parker commutes from her home in Mt. Mourne. Still worried about Doctor Sentelle’s letters?
If so, it is Miss Suzie Jackson, who is beginning her second year as his secretary. Her other duties include
running the bookstore. Miss Jackson is a native of Davidson. Sharing her office is Miss Adele Arbuckle, secretary to Mr.
R. L. Jackson, treasurer. One of her big jobs is handling the student loan fund. Before beginning her work here
five years ago, Miss Arbuckle graduated from Agnes Scott College in Decatur, Ga. A man’s love is like his appetite—it
must be fed. TATE-BROWN’S features the smartest styles in evening clothes for the Davidson Dances. $28.50 Also a complete line
of Dress Shirts, Studs, and Cuff Links. YOUNG MEN’S SHOP THIRD FLOOR TATE-BROWN CO. 126 South Tryon Street CHARLOTTE, N.C.
Get Your CLASS RINGS NOW For Delivery by CHRISTMAS $19.00-$22.00 FRATERNITY INITIALS ENCRUSTED CHOICE OF STONES NAME ENGRAVED —Managers— Juniors
and Seniors STUDENT STORE SAM HEMPHILL
