Page Four THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, MARCH 23, 1938.

Davidson’s ‘Femmes’

The five smiling young ladies pictured above go to make up Davidson’s co-ed element. Top row, left to right: Emily
Goodrum, Stella Johnston, and Louise Maxwell. Bottom row, Janie Knox and Ella-Keen “Butch” Steel.

Perhaps the person most responsible for the maintenance of the “Wildcat Spirit” last fall during the football season was Elmore
Holt, shown above, leading students in giving the famous old “Fight Yell,” for which the college is renowned.

Davidson’s new infirmary houses a good deal of brand new hospital equipment, which has become dear to Dr. John Wilson
MacConnell, College Physician. He is pictured above in his own operating room in the new building, trying out some of
the new equipment on Avery Patton, of the college chemistry department. Besides this new equipment in the operating room, Dr.
MacConnell has therapy equipment in the basement.

Davidsonian Reviews Eventful Year As Final Issue Rolls From Presses

Events Recorded By College Paper

Another volume in the history of Davidson is concluded today, as this year’s recorders of campus activity are retired and
a new set take their places; for with this issue the staff of the college paper changes hands.

Football Disasters

Classes were opened last fall on September 15 to receive the largest student body ever registered here. 212 of them,
upperclassmen, had arrived earlier for a week of orientation. Six new professors were on the faculty. Wade Boggs, '37, had
replaced A. B. McClure as secretary of the “Y.” A new infirmary was begun, and the laundry had been remodeled.
It was learned that restrictions had been imposed on dances and other social functions.

Tank Painted

Preliminaries over, school machinery gathered motion. The freshmen lost little time in having their numerals painted on the water tank.
Early in October Dr. D.G. Barnhouse of Philadelphia conducted a series of religious services in the Charlotte Armory, speaking to
large student audiences twice daily. Following their battle with Carolina, the Wildcats traveled north for an intersectional game with Sewanee.
Playing under the worst of weather conditions, the Southerners were overcome 15-0. Shortly before Thanksgiving, a plan for the strict
ban of drinking at college dances was approved by student vote, and in the dances that followed the plan proved
effective.

Football Begins

Soon after the opening of school, September 18, the first football game of the season was played. Duke triumphed here
over stubborn opposition, 36-6, and left injuries to the ‘Cats that had not quite recovered. In Lexington next week, Davidson
fell before V.M.I. 7-0. The ‘Cats bowed to the University of South Carolina, 12-7, and in Danville the team lost
to Centre 8-0. Two hundred from Winthrop were the guests of the student body for the Furman game late in
October. The Wildcats tamed the Purple Hurricane by the score 13-9.

Homecoming Observed

Homecoming, on November 6, was the high point of the autumn festivities. Some six hundred alumni and their wives arrived
for the annual banquet here and watched a powerful University of North Carolina team overwhelm the lighter ‘Cats, 26-0.

The final football event of the year was the annual Thanksgiving Day tilt with Wake Forest, played this year in
Charlotte. Once more the Wildcats were beaten, this time 6-2. A week later on their home field, the Wildcats defeated
Erskine by 21-6, with Teeny Lafferty exhibiting his ball-carrying prowess.played, time by 19-7 against North Carolina State, in Greensboro. Coached
by Davidson's YMCA, the usual Christmas fund was conducted before the holidays, with the cause this year being the emergency
in China. Pledges totaling $530 were subscribed.

Over the vacation, the interior of the student store was destroyed by fire, and a remodeled and restocked building was
opened in the middle of January.

Basketball Team
The basketball team got off to a good start shortly before Christmas by winning from the College of Charleston, 51-21.
This was followed by a decisive victory over Duke after the holidays. Soon, however, a jinx seemed to settle on
the Wildcats, and important games were lost by narrow margins.

Mid examinations were held from January 20-29 this year, and soon thereafter social fraternities began initiating their pledges.

Thoughts turned naturally to social events in February, with the approach of Mid-Winters weekend on the 11th and 12th. Bunny
Berigan, of the torrid trumpet, played for the occasion; and the Charlotte Armory, scene of the affair, was elaborately decorated.

Trustee Meeting
The Trustees met at their annual mid-winter session on February 16 and authorized payments for the planning of a new
library when sufficient pledges have been made to the Centennial Fund. Pledges to the fund totaled over a quarter of
a million dollars, it was announced.

Beaver Club
The defunct Beaver Club, an organization dedicated to playing host to visitors on the campus, was revived in February. Prompted
by letters in “The Davidsonian” from the mysterious “Boru,” action was begun to have the franchise restored to the freshmen.
This resulted in a proposed amendment to the constitution proffered by senior Monroe Wicker.

When students entered school last fall, they found that they had a new entertainer on the campus in the guise
of a fellow student. This person was none other than Shaw Smith, junior, who has performed successfully in these parts
as Colin the Magician.

Davidson's 70-piece football band had three “high-stepping” Drum Majors last fall when they paraded on football fields from Davidson to
Harvard. Left to right, they are: Henry Brown Baker, Julian Helms (head Drum Major), and Fred Chetwood. On the right
is Martin “Teeny” Lafferty, about to heave one of those long passes for which he was renowned last fall. “Teeny”
is one of Davidson’s great “all-time” backfield stars, and his superior work in the Duke-Davidson game will especially be remembered
as one of the finest exhibitions of his grid career.

Rained Out
Pictured above is a practice scene from Davidson's Centennial Pageant so widely heralded last spring and which was to have
been presented during graduation. But Jupiter Pluvius interfered, and there was no pageant. The last semblance of the pageant passed
a few weeks ago, when the stage, shown above, on Richardson Field, was torn down.

The cartoon above, drawn by Sam Ryburn, exhibits what has come to be one of the burning issues of the
Student Body in the past month—that of allowing freshmen to vote. The main instigator of the idea was friend “Boru.”

The famed torrid trumpet of Bunny Berigan blared forth at the Charlotte Armory-Auditorium on the weekend of Feb. 11-12, when
“Bunny” and his hot swing band were presented by the Pan-Hellenic Council for the annual Mid-Winter set of three dances.
This trumpet of Bunny’s was heard on many hot choruses.

One of North Carolina's most talented speakers, Dr. Julian Miller, shown below, delivered the principal address at the Alumni Banquet
at the annual college homecoming last November 6. Miller is editor of The Charlotte Observer.

Davidson juniors of the R.O.T.C. department invaded Anniston, Ala., for a six weeks’ period of army life last summer. Shown
above, laboriously cleaning his rifle, is Morrison King, a Davidson second lieutenant, better known around here as “Pinky.”
