Page Two

The Davidsonian

Founded By the Class of 1915. 937 Member 1938 Associated Collegiate Press Distributor of Collegiate Digest Published Weekly “For a
Better Davidson” Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES Ten cents per copy, $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY National Advertising Service, Inc. College Publishers Representative 420 MADISON AVE New York, N.Y. Chicago -
Boston - Los Angeles - San Francisco

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879.

EDITORIAL STAFF
Fitzhugh Dade Assistant Editor
Ovid Bell Managing Editor
Joe Calvin Managing Editor
Wesley Coghill Managing Editor
Terrell Porter Managing Editor
Perry Sloan Managing Editor
Bill Marquess Sports Editor
Owen Conke Associate Editor
Sam Cothran Associate Editor
Euclid Fant Associate Editor
Hector McGeachy Associate Editor
Yates Faison Associate Editor
Sam Ryburn Art Editor
Henry Baker Movie Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
Wesley Coghill Collection Manager
Bill Miller Advertising Manager
Andy Turner Circulation Manager
Terrell Porter Circulation Manager
Sam Hemphill Business Manager

Every great and commanding movement on the annals of the world is the triumph of enthusiasm. —Emerson.

Politics...
It seems fairly evident that Davidson will continue to move along in the same groove politically for some time, and
there seems to be no better solution to the problem. Here, we try to keep politics out of elections entirely.
The ideal is the conscientious vote of every man. However, human nature just doesn’t run that way. An idealist is
much to be admired but somehow his is not always the practical attitude. We must realize that as long as
there are elections there will be politics. This year’s election scandal, the uncovering of a maze of fraternity vote-swapping enterprises,
is enough reason to believe that the pledge should be put before fraternity presidents every year. Open politics might work,
for a time at Davidson, but eventually contention would grow great enough to make the campus a “hotbed” of rivalry
and contention. No, the only solution, even though it is conservative and in the same cut, apparently is the policy
followed by the present student council: “Keep the elections as clean as possible.”

Flowers Planted...
After five months of college work, college life begins to look mighty drab. However, a bright atmosphere certainly makes things
seem a little more cheery. Credit is due the College, Mr. Hobart, and his workers for keeping the campus in
such fine condition and brightening the greens with varicolored flowers. The crocuses along the walk in front of Chambers Building
have drawn considerable attention and add that final delicate touch.

Glee Club...
Last week the Glee Club returned from what was termed a highly successful concert tour. From the state syndicated column
“Music Comment,” the authoress, Mrs. Laura Howell Norden states: “Judging by their concert in Wilmington, last Sunday, the Davidson College
Glee Club is doing splendid work under the direction of Thane MacDonald, member of the faculty of the music department.
Mr. MacDonald’s quiet manner on the podium and the fact that he conducted the program from memory made a very
favorable impression.” We are all too prone as Davidson students to fail to give credit where credit is due. And
we feel that the Glee Club and their competent leader deserve an orchid, in the words of Walter Winchell. Probably
the main reason for the efficient work of the Glee Club is the degree of cooperation and goodwill that seems
to exist between the group and the leader.

John D. Rockefeller, who gave the University of Chicago more than $34,000,000, visited that institution only twice in his life.

A larger proportion of the Oglethorpe University faculty is in “Who’s Who” than any other college in America.

Pan-Germanicism
An Editorial by FIELD HORINE

Last week there was Austria. This week there is a Germany, larger by the 6,760,000 inhabitants of its newest province,
German-Austria; and, for the first time in history, Vienna is subject to Berlin. Bismarck could have had it thus in
1866 had he wished; but he had his reasons for not desiring a union. This time such reasons were not
in evidence, and when opportunity knocked Adolf Hitler answered. For no one knows better than he that she may knock
but once.

Most of the world stood aghast and somewhat angered. But why? Hitler had grounds to suppose that a majority of
the Austrian populace favored anschluss. That this was the case has been admitted by even the most reluctant observers in
Austria during the past few days, during which popular enthusiasm in that country has risen to utterly unprecedented heights. Chancellor
Schuschnigg had definitely violated his Berchtesgaden agreement with Hitler by suddenly calling for a plebiscite, which incidentally would have been
illegal according to the 1934 Austrian constitution. In addition, the plebiscite was to have been held within the short space
of three and one half days. There were no adequate polling facilities, since Austrians had not had occasion or opportunity
to vote since 1930. Plans for balloting were nothing short of farcical, since the answer “Yes” was to have been
already printed on the ballots, and those wishing to vote “No” to Schuschnigg’s newest idea of ousting Nazis completely were
to have had to use their own sheets of paper exactly five by eight centimeters! And, besides, if Schuschnigg had
really wished to determine the people's will, he might have called for a referendum before his conference with Hitler. Is
it any wonder then that members of Schuschnigg’s own cabinet demanded his resignation? Does it, under the circumstances, seem at
all strange that Hitler used the occasion to unite what is really one people under one government and one leader?

Senior Slants
“Davidson and Open Politics”

In recent weeks there has been much talk on the campus of changing from our present system of elections to
one of open politics. The idea has been discussed in the Letters to the Editor and in the “Question of
the Week” column, but I feel that it would not be amiss to add something further here. Recently I have
had the opportunity to observe the workings of political systems on other campuses, and it seems to me that they
are uniformly bad, no matter how they are run. And, I believe that such systems would be bad for Davidson,
for reasons which I shall outline briefly:

First, any good to be gained will be insignificant. Most of the ardent exponents of the open system will admit
that the idea is purely selfish—a method to help their fraternity gain a few more offices and thus more prestige.
But the result would be that offices would have to be distributed among all the fraternities, or among the ones
in the strongest combine. Either way would utterly deprive the non-fraternity man of office, would hinder many men in fraternities
with several potential leaders, and would merely aid a few fraternities who could not gain offices for their men any
other way. It is easily seen that such results could do no good, and any prestige gained for the lesser
lodges would not be worth the price if its members had any self-respect whatsoever.

Secondly, it would create dissension among the fraternities themselves and between them and other groups. In every college where such
a plan is used, the fraternities are constantly at each other's throats, with detrimental results to goodwill, cooperation, and school
spirit in general. Recently in a large southern university one student shot and killed another over just this sort of
thing. We have recently given the freshmen voting power in order to aid school spirit. Such a system of politics
would not only counteract any good results, but would bring quick death to all school spirit. Davidson has a reputation
everywhere for clean politics. Let's not for any selfish reason degenerate into a group of scheming, squabbling politicians. We have
enough of them outside.

—HAYWOOD HILL.

It doesn't seem reasonable that there are six juniors on the Davidsonian staff who have sweated and slaved and taken
that interest in the Davidsonian which THE DAVIDSONIAN Campus in Cartoon

DR. DAN FREEMAN RADZEY, TRUSTEE OF OBERLIN COLLEGE FOR PAST 40 YEARS ONLY MISSED FIVE OUT OF 68 MEETINGS IN
THE LAST THIRTY YEARS!

Panoramic COLLEGIATE PRESS

THE UNIVERSITY OF THE SORBONNE IN PARIS HAS NEVER HAD A PROM, FOOTBALL TEAM OR FRATERNITY—YET IT IS 700 YEARS
OLD! IS THERE ANY CAUSAL NEXUS?

EIGHTY-SEVEN PERCENT OF THE GRADUATES OF STEPHENS COLLEGE ARE MARRIED FIVE YEARS AFTER GRADUATION!

Letters to the Editor
(Letters over 300 words in length subject to cutting. All letters considered for publication must be signed, although the signature
may be withheld if desired).

RIGHT MAN FOR THE DAVIDSONIAN...
Dear Dick:

You have doubtless often thought of the difficulty of the student body's picking the right man for the editor of
The Davidsonian. Isn't there something we can do about it? It doesn't seem reasonable that there are six juniors on
the Davidsonian staff who have sweated and slaved and taken that interest in the Davidsonian which will make it the
outstanding paper we want it to be. It does seem reasonable, though, that perhaps there is one man, or two,
on the staff who has taken such an attitude toward his work. Sometimes there is a man who intends to
make journalism his life work. But we don’t know who such a man would be, if he exists. How can
we find out?

A good editor can make a good Davidsonian and can make a better Davidson, but a poor editor will make
a poor Davidsonian which may easily be another blow to the college spirit. This situation wouldn't be so bad if
the also-rans weren't waste-basketed as soon as elections are over. If they had definite duties, their experience would obviously be
of great value. But since this is not the case, it is all the more important that we elect the
RIGHT MAN for the editorship. How, will somebody please figure out, are we going to know him when we see
his name on the ballot?

—J. O. LAFFERTY.

HOW SHALL WE KNOW CANDIDATE'S QUALIFICATIONS?...
To the Editor:

There has been a lot of loose talk going around suggesting that we have some sort of controlled politics on
this campus. The argument seems...to be that we don't know each other quite well enough. Controlled politics usually connotes party
organizations and campaign speeches. This would obviously be a great evil. The main argument against politics is that we do
know each other well enough. The fact of the matter is that we know each other well enough in one
way, but not always in regard to ability for the offices for which we nominate each other. The usual answer
to the question, “Whom are you gonna vote for?” is “John Doe. He's a good boy.” or “He's a fine
fellow. I roomed with him my freshman year.” We know him all right, but not in the right way. How
then can we present each other's qualifications for any particular job without getting into politics? The solution seems simple enough.
If each nominator (student council, YMCA cabinet, Davidsonian staff, individuals, etc.) would make a brief and carefully worded statement of
the candidate's qualifications (limited to twenty words, and they can't sling much mud), it would be a big help all
around. Just so it's brief, dignified, truthful, and so we all get a chance to read it, the problem (if
there is one) should take care of itself. —R. A. TORREY.

From Campus to Campus

Although the state's legislators believe a University of Kansas communism investigation unworthy of their august attention, that institution’s board of
regents’ special investigating committee has resumed its inquiry. The state senate killed the probe bill, but the regents immediately re-announced
that it would immediately reopen its search for those who followed “isms.” A report is expected late this month.

Something new in the field of intercollegiate meet will be tried at Cornell University here next month. Dartmouth College and
the University of Pennsylvania have been invited to meet here on April 29 and 30 with Cornell’s brainiest for a
social science conference “Making Democracy Work.”

Some snappy slams were exchanged by Justice McReynolds of the Supreme Court and President R. M. Hutchins of the University
of Chicago, at a recent banquet. “Mr. Hutchins, I understand that at your school you teach disrespect for our Supreme
Court decisions,” said McReynolds. “Oh, no,” answered Hutchins. “We just let the students read the decisions for themselves.”

The University of Utah has opened a sourdough college. It’s a new night-school class for those who would be prospectors
in the state's metal-ridden hills, and it’s attended by 200 businessmen, professional men — and a few prospectors of the
old school. Students of the class are asked to purchase a small prospecting kit, including acids and tools necessary to
detect “pay dirt.”

“Double feature shows are the third stage of movie evolution,” says a writer in the Silver and Gold, student paper
at the University of Colorado. “First they had silent ones; the next group talked, and now the ones they show
in double bills smell.”

The American educational system has “too much machinery, too much teaching and too little learning.” This was the charge made
here recently by Prof. Kirsopp Lake of Harvard University. Continuing his denunciation, he said: “It simply infuriates me to see
our universities having to give courses in elementary French or German, taught by young scholars who ought to be doing
advanced work of their own. The languages should be taught to our children in the lower school. We would get
better results by enticing men to learn than by the whole army of baby deans in this country.”

Mrs. Zoe Seevers, Drake University English professor, has had in her classes nine famous writers and 15 members of the
present Drake faculty.

A shop in which students may spend their leisure time pursuing their hobbies has been opened at Massachusetts Institute of
Technology.

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 16, 1938

King For A Day
By CHUBBY KING

My muse completely exhausted ... Emptying myself of scandal every week ought to make me a fairly clean fellow at
the end of the year when this job's thrown to the next guy ... He's gonna have some task, too,
with a new wave of puritanism covering campus ... Sam Cothran predicts that the average student of tomorrow will be
five feet one inch, weigh 105 pounds, habitually seen with a piccolo under one arm and seven books under the
other. What a horrible future!

Honeysuckle Goes to a Party ... (Not Quite) ... At Joe Davidson's cabin on the Catawba, Davidson College’s social life
reached a climax with a big party thrown by the Kentucky Colonel Robt. L. Greene, D.D. (Dentist’s Delight)... Honeysuckle would
have served the wieners from the floor if he had gotten there ... However, following the experienced example of the
faculty, the sedate group enjoyed a sedate square dance, figures manipulated under the inspired guidance of another kernel, Fiji Liipfert
of St. Vitus fame ... Wallowing Tonissen played arithmetic digressions with a push in the corner... Rebet Cooke drew a
Yank and refought that old question... Iverson momentarily diverted from military activities by the advantages possible in a good post
office education. Party properly chaperoned and light refreshments served.

In Charlotte—Bobby Gish, bannistering, stunned Fanny—took ten minutes to make amends ... Bud Ingram and Joe Bailey at hot dog
roast in city girl’s backyard... Swede Johnson and George Milne with $3.61 and two lovely lassies in $3.60 push-it to
the airport ... Bounder returned less $3.00 but much wiser ... Numerous SAE’s at private dance—Mathis pulling Charlie McCarthy act
with Lem Kornegay ... Bronston Kenny surrenders prized possession to young lady, but with no regrets ... Who broke a
window in the Hotel Charlotte?

Dean Hudson's orchestra, Spring Frolic choice, broadcasting five times weekly from Murray’s out from New York City — Mutual Broadcasting
System... Heard him late Sunday night — a fine band, good show with choral group featuring Miss Frances Colwell, who
possesses an excellent voice... Band appears headed for big time... Dean's real name is Bud Brown — Kappa Sig, from
University of Fla.

Party at Rudasill cottage at Blowing Rock ... A bunch of Betas and others there, however Hu-John couldn’t stand the
company ... No information forthcoming from this group... Hicks following example of Dan Iverson enticed little Tice off on another
jaunt to a joint — somewhere in the Appalachians ... Bill Preston arrived 5 A.M. Monday morning from Flora Macdonald
and Winthrop ... Parents of courted maid practically adopted “Footsie” Cowan and he returns again this weekend to Greenville ...
Sam Ryburn at Flora Macdonald engulfed by enchanting damsels who cooed at his classic remark — “As I gaze upon
your shining faces” ... Spirited women broke rigid restrictions to bid Don Cleveland and him farewell.

Kiesewetter, Dorsett, Taylor, Arrowsmith, Charlie Smith, and Marchant all to Clinton to KA dance Friday night ... Mysterious reference to
strange potions appellated “Bookering Water” ... George Richmond worrying over Concord Babe ... From Sweet Briar and vicinity, Billy Turner
surprisingly returned without autographs from BL & L.... Understand Hayseed Thomas introduced new dance at Woman’s Club — however, dance
only possible with Swing and Sway rhythms of Sammy Kaye ... Ray Pittman found inspiration by Woman's College poetess ...
To Raleigh, Bits Watkins to Sally Nichols, Bill Ross to Peggy Heath Friday night and was later featured... Dunford and
Hines in bachelor party with usual results.

GARNERINGS—Choice crack of the week was overheard when boy greeted Shaw Smith the other day with the words: “Hello Colin,
how's tricks?" — Orchids to professors like Hemphill, who slept through his assigned history review last Thursday. It's the second
time it has happened too. — According to Athletic Director, Davidson has a larger percentage of boys engaging in sports,
either intramural or varsity, than any school in the south. Keep up the good work.

RECORD — You know Lee, the janitor in the chemistry building. Well, he has been working there for about fifteen
years and every day handles chemicals of all kinds. Yet in all his work he has never received an acid
burn or a bad cut from broken glass. Just think what happens to the average student who takes four years
of chemistry. Neglect the fact that the average student doesn't take four years of chemistry.

THESE FATHERS—A farmer boy went to the city against his father’s wishes and the old man predicted disaster for him
in the big town. Evidently the father was wrong, for in his first letter home the boy wrote: “I have
a fine position with a good company: that's a feather in my cap." Later he wrote: “I am breaking into
society and have been put up for a good club; that’s another feather in my cap.” Again he wrote: “I
am engaged to the most popular girl in town; that's still another feather in my cap.” There were no more
letters for a time, until one day the father received a wire collect, reading: “Please telegraph me railroad fare home,
I am broke.” To which the father wired back: “Nothing doing. Take the feathers out of your cap, stick them
on your back, and fly home.”

THUMB NAIL SKETCH — It seems impossible that such a distinctive individual could have been overlooked by this column for
so long a time. But overlooked he was until he approached us the other day and asked why he had
not been included. We finally bargained. He gave me his autograph and I promised to write him up in this
column. He is a senior but will return next year to grace our football team by his scintillating play. A
nice appearing boy, wears glasses at times and is unmistakable in his white shining sweater with that big red “D”
on the front. Holds an assistantship under Prof. Sapp of the Soft-Drink Department. Need any more be said? Remember, it's
all in fun.

NOT SO DUMB — The woman who married a burglar wasn’t so dumb at that. At least she has a
husband who is trained to pick up things and be quiet around the house.

Low prices on candid ROLLS DEVELOPED
Any size roll kodak film developed, eight never-fade Velox prints for only 25¢ (coin). Free mailing envelopes and VALUABLE PREMIUMS
GIVEN. MAIL YOUR FILMS TO Jack Rabbit Co. SPARTANBURG, S. C.
