Page Six THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, FEB. 23, 1938.

Crime Experiment Used For Psychology Course
Dr. Hood Directs Students In Unique Problem

An interesting and unusual experiment was worked out last Wednesday by members of the Experimental Laboratory course, under the direction
of Dr. Frazer Hood.

Writers’ Club Offers Prizes
One Thousand Dollars to Be Given Student Writers In America and Canada

ARTHUR KAHLER COACHES FOOTBALL AT DICKINSON COLLEGE AND BASKETBALL AT BROWN UNIVERSITY!

A brigade of one thousand student undergraduates from universities and schools in 1937-38 posed for discussion on the antifascist struggle
and its relation to the welfare of American society. No particular requirement is needed.

A letter, in the form of a problem crime, was given to two students not taking this particular course. The
members of the class knew what the crime was, but the students actually did not know who committed it. The
mystery was to be solved by them. The class was divided into two groups, and two students were chosen. In
the meantime, the students left the room and were observed to see which one was to commit the crime. The
one that was chosen then proceeded to commit the crime, which consisted of “robbing” the student store of a carton
of cigarettes. The class was completely ignorant of the contents of the letter.

By means of using words of “association,” the members of the class next tried to find out which of the
two boys was guilty. A list was placed before them with fifty words, among which were about twenty “key” words
or words associated with the case. The class would read off a word, and the “culprits” would immediately associate another
word with it. After all fifty words were finished, the class could readily see which boy’s associations were more connected
to the crime, identifying the guilty party.

The Writers’ Club offers prizes of one thousand dollars to student writers in America and Canada. The writer may submit
poetry, a film or radio script, fiction, or an essay. There are no limits to length. Members of the League
of American Writers will read and pass on submitted manuscripts in their respective subject fields, and the ultimate selection will
be made by a jury consisting of the following judges: Elliot Paul, Donald Ogden Stewart, Jean Starr Untermeyer, H. V.
Kaltenborn, Robert Morss Lovett, and Clifford Odets. Their decision will be final.

ART CRITIC LECTURE
(Continued from Page 1)

Chauncey F. Ryder, Howard Chandler Christy, Charles B. Gruppe, Lawrence Biddle, Ivan F. Choultse, Ballard Williams, Hugo Ungewitter, and M.
Foseari.

The chief object of Dr. Palmer is to improve the contact between the artist and the layman.

ORGANIST WILL GIVE
(Continued from Page 1)

The two professors plan to present their findings before the North Carolina Academy of Science at its meeting in May.

WINNER OF
(Continued from Page 1)

Torrey’s sketches were done with 230 to 300 pounds. Professor Fulcher said recently that he and Professor Thies are continuing
their study along this line. Experimentation on the new problems has been approved by an officer of the Beverage Bottlers
Association, and full cooperation is assured.

AMONG THE GREEKS
(Continued from Page 5)

Brothers attending Sig Eps journey to Raleigh.

Your Film Report Card
By HENRY B. BAKER

The quality of each picture is determined by the number of stars; more stars mean a better picture.

Thursday and Friday—Feb. 24-25
“RADIO CITY REVELS” — Bob Burns, Jack Oakie, Kenny Baker, Ann Miller, Hal Kemp and his band. This is one
of the best musicals produced so far this year. It gives a cross-section of the top-notch entertainment of New York's
Radio City worked into an interesting plot. The music of Hal Kemp, the singing of Ann, and the droll humor
of Bob Burns are the outstanding features.

Saturday—Feb. 26
“INTERNATIONAL SETTLEMENT” — George Sanders and June Lang. “Danger” is the ever-present element in this story of life as it
exists in the turmoil of Shanghai's International Settlement. George Sanders fears nothing as he probes into the secrets of the
outlaw mobs that thrive where confusion exists.Usually where such confusion occurs, Mon. & Tues.—Feb. 28-March 1, we know “YANK AT
OXFORD” — Robert Taylor, Lionel Barrymore, and Maureen O'Sullivan. A story centered around Oxford, one of the oldest and best-known
institutions of higher learning in Europe. Robert Taylor represents a typical American youth who has the privilege of attending. In
addition to various experiences, he falls in love with a British girl.

Crane’s were made with an electric pencil on a special kind of rough paper, a class of art known as
pyrography. In either case, full book and magazine rights are considered the sole property of the author. Due to the
success of the exhibit, The Davidsonian, besides having it as an annual affair, has decided to stage another exhibit in
the spring. All interested will please communicate with Editor Vowles.

NOW IN KNOX
Henderson Jewelry Shop
Watch and Jewelry Repairing
BUILDING

Kenny, the dancing of “MENT” — Dolores Del Rio, Geo.

Canadians Inspect Local Sewage Plant
Officials of Montreal, Canada, inspected the plant Monday. Upon departing, they stated they were highly pleased with the experimental sewage
disposal plant in Davidson. Montreal is planning to build a large disposal plant and sent the city council down to
inspect the Davidson system, utilizing the bio-reduction system. Mr. Lee, constructor of the Davidson plant, gave a dinner for the
visitors Monday night at Hotel Charlotte. They were welcomed to Charlotte by Mayor Ben Douglas.

OBTAIN NEW HISTORY
(Continued from Page 1)
He was also a member of Eta Sigma Phi, honorary classical fraternity, and was chairman of the Sunday School and
Church Relations Committee of the Y. M. C. A. Cabinet from 1934. Following his graduation from Davidson, McGeachy decided to
pursue graduate work in the field of history at the University of North Carolina in Chapel Hill. After a year
there, he chose the University of Chicago to complete his graduate work. McGeachy comes to our faculty highly recommended by
the professors in the history department of the University of Chicago, where he is now completing work on his doctorate
degree.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR
(Continued from Page 2)
Some such system becomes increasingly necessary. As the student body grows larger, it will become more difficult — essentially impossible
— for any voter to know all the candidates and their qualifications. What simpler way of overcoming the problem could
be found than to let members of the graduating class, or the student councilmen from that class, state each man’s
qualifications between the nominations and the actual elections? Thus, some such plan to ensure an intelligent voting body, and “controlled
politics” seemed the best phrase to express it. The word “politics” was not meant in the sense in which it
was understood. Also, may it be added that nothing personal whatsoever has been intended by these letters.

And back to the freshman vote. The idea has been loaded into the wagon. The horse is now snorting in
the harness, ready for action. It only remains for the student body to step into the seat, take up the
reins, and carry through the amendment to restore the freshman franchise.

—BORU

ESTCOLDS ...Distressing symptoms quickly relieved...rub on Vicks VAPORUB

GENERATIONS PROVED BY 2

PALMERS’ Optometrists
EYE-SIGHT SPECIALISTS
DR. JAMES A. PALMER
DR. BELLE W. PALMER
Broken glasses and repairs mailed out C.O.D. same day received.
302 North Tryon Street
Charlotte, N. C.

CAMERAS
Photo Films
College Pharmacy
LOANED
Graphic Supplies

Sawyer, Sample, and others spent Sunday evening in Charlotte. Coghill spent the weekend at home. Kunz engaged with the Citadel
attended a...

CONSIDER NEW CLASS
(Continued from Page 1)
Under consideration is an elementary course in mathematics and languages, with one hour per week. The schedule of other courses
remains the same.

THURS. ONLY
—IN PERSON—
FATS WALLER and his 16 Musical Madmen
One of the Most Delightful Treats Offered in Charlotte This Season!!
—PLUS—
A DELIGHTFUL SCREEN PROGRAM
ALL SEATS - 40c
BROADWAY

For Quality’s Sake
M.H. Goodrum Co.
ZENITH RADIOS
Weekly Radio Features
LAWRENCE TIBBETT
ANDRE KOSTELANETZ
PAUL WHITEMAN
DREAMS
TAYLOR
PAUL DOUGLAS

You’ll find MORE PLEASURE in Chesterfields’ milder better taste
Copyright 1938, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.

...and when you land on Chesterfields you find the three points of smoking pleasure... all you look for in a
cigarette
MILDNESS that’s refreshing
TASTE that smokers like
AROMA that makes you downright hungry for a smoke.
