WEDNESDAY, MAY 11, 1938 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Three

Question Street New Like Week Mill Pastor

Davidson Unity Church Will Get Its First Full-Time Minister

With one year ending and prospects of a new college term starting, thoughts often turn toward the new class of
the coming year which will take its place in the annals of the college history. Accommodation of the freshman class
is often a debated subject as to how they will be ruled, what rights will be allowed them, and where
they shall live. It is on this thought that we wish to dwell this week.

Freshmen at Davidson for years have been distributed among the various dormitories and classes have had no distinct place in
which to live. In one North Carolina college, however, freshmen were placed to themselves in a separate dormitory last year
and the same plan is to be carried out again this year. With this thought in mind, various opinions have
been stated by members of the student body as to how this will affect their college spirit. A question then
may be stated: “Will placing freshmen into a separate dorm have a favorable effect on their college spirit?”

Joe Bailey, Senior:
There are advantages for having all the freshmen in one dormitory but I feel that a man in his first
year would gain more by living among students in other classes. He could get into the running of things more
quickly by living with them. Then he would get to know more of the students rather than just those in
his own class which he will get to know anyhow. Therefore, I feel that other methods should be employed to
gain or rather help regain some of the true Davidson spirit.

Wahnalatimer, Junior:
It is my opinion that this is class coralling. The danger of this is that it would lead to a
clannish spirit which would be detrimental to a well-rounded atmosphere since it is necessary in a school the size of
Davidson to become acquainted with those in all classes.

Charlie Mashburn, Sophomore:
I think for developing spirit that this would be fine. Although I believe that a freshman class can gain the
school spirit best by having the rooms distributed among upperclassmen who the school would like the freshman to possess.

Charlie Brown, Senior:
There is one big advantage in allowing the freshmen to be scattered among the various dormitories. In this manner, they
become more closely acquainted with upperclassmen and learn of campus traditions and customs that they might be unable to acquire
if they were confined to one group of their own age and class.

Louis Hipp, Junior:
A certain amount of segregation of the freshman class each year would undoubtedly increase its class spirit, but it would
do so at the expense of its school spirit. The close relationship within the freshman class would cause the men
to band together in opposition to the upper classes rather than in mutual sympathy and protection.

Oggie Spoon, Senior:
No doubt such a system would increase freshman class activities but I do not think it would enable him to
begin such activities as “night school,” organized winter recreation, and work on a recreational building. Immediate plans call for a
singing school, a daily vacation Bible School, a period of camping for the boys, and a campaign for equipment for
the Boy Scouts.

The Davidson students who are to aid the pastor in his work next year are: Kod Williams, Ivan Wetmore, Sid
Crane, Nelson Horton, Bob Brandon, Paul Crane, and Joe Gordon.

John Reisner Is New Vice President of Council

Monday morning after chapel, Joe Calvin was elected president of the Forensic Council for next year. Other officers elected were:
John Reisner, first vice president; Sherrard Rice, second vice president; Dick Kenyon, secretary and treasurer; Bob Ramsey, debate manager, and
Locke White, freshman debate manager. Calvin is a KA and comes from Decatur, Ala. He is president of his fraternity.
He was president of IRC this year and is on the debating team. He belongs to the Pi Kappa Alpha
fraternity and is president of Alpha Phi Epsilon, debating fraternity. Retiring officers are: Bill Riesenweber, president; Haywood Hill, first vice
president; James Dorsett, second vice president; Joe Calvin, treasurer; John Reisner, secretary; and Sherrard Rice, debate manager.

Frosh Secure Voting Rights

As a result of the Student Council’s recent ruling, the members of the freshman class were granted the privilege of
voting in the last two elections this spring. After several freshmen had approached members of the council, that body met
and announced that as stated in the Student Body Constitution, the freshmen were now entitled to vote. This was based
upon Article V, Section 3, which reads as follows: “Upon the installation of the president of the rising Sophomore Class,
freshmen become members of the Student Body with full right to vote.” Hank Bahnson, new president of the rising sophomores,
was installed several weeks ago; therefore the freshmen were given the privilege of voting in the recent Publications elections.

Calvin Heads Debate Group

Fifty Years At Davidson

A half-century as professor at Davidson! This is the record Dr. Caleb Richmond Harding has established. On the cover of
the April issue of the Alumni Journal, which is featuring the professor, is an informal picture of Dr. Harding, and
an article in the Journal gives a short biography and some memoirs. (Photo by Fred Smith)—(Courtesy Charlotte Observer).

Ross and Mr. Jackson Write Articles

The April issue of the Alumni Journal, dedicated to Professor Caleb Richmond Harding, has just been released. A full-page picture
of Dr. Harding is featured on the cover of the Journal and an interesting article describes his four years as
a student and half a century as a professor. It tells of his family, his education here at Davidson and
at Johns Hopkins University, and his career as professor of Greek and German. Dr. Harding's theory of teaching these difficult
subjects are explained and some of the incidents of this half-century of teaching are related.

Dr. Walter Lingle has written an article on what Davidson is doing to keep up with educational progress. He states
that with financial aid from the college, professors are being urged to do special work to enable them to keep
abreast of their own subjects, that various concerts, demonstrations, and lectures are being brought to the campus, and that a
special committee of faculty members have compiled a list of the best schools in the country.

A humorous article on experiences of various alumni supplies a light touch to the Journal. Fred Smith has written an
article on Davidson alumni who have succeeded in the legal profession and Mr. E. L. Jackson one on the purposes
and progress of the Centennial Movement. There are two articles on Davidson sports and others on Davidson alumni, Founders’ Day,
Commencement, and J. Hervey Ross’ adventures in Mexico.

MATHEMATICAL WIZARD

Fourteen-year-old Willis Dysart, a rural Georgia youth with but two years of formal schooling, has Emory University professors a bit
bewildered. In a few seconds time, in his head, he can do among other things such mathematical unbelievables as find
the square root of 138,799,961 and add seven three-digit figures accurately—and he doesn’t use pencil.and paper. Board election, and also
the vote for the Y. M. C. A. Board of Control think it would help develop a true school spirit.
I believe too, that the freshmen would miss many benefits which they can get only from association with upperclassmen.

Records—Victor, Brunswick, Decca Bluebird—35c & 70c Each
Any Record Not in Stock Can Be Quickly Secured
PARKER-GARDNER CO.
PHONE 8257
Charlotte, N. C.

The new business edition of Quips and Cranks Sam Spencer, Charlie from Kiangsu, China, freshman in the department last Francais,
and Pheta, Phi survey of a group of the Cumming at Davidson Sunday School Class on May Approach to Religion.”
Mrs. Cumming issued an invitation (Continued on Page 4)

Registrations Due
Prof. F. K. Fleagle, director of the summer school of Davidson, asks that all students who are planning to attend
the summer session and who have not registered to register as soon as possible with him or with Mr. F.
W. Hengeveld. The summer session will begin on June 15 and continue for six weeks until July 22. Courses are
selected from those given during the regular session, but if at least six students do not enroll for a course
it will not be taught. If there is sufficient demand for courses not on the selected list they will be
offered also.

Gwynn Leads Next Vespers
Professor Will Conduct Annual Communion
The annual communion service for the entire student body will be held Sunday night May 15, in Chambers Auditorium at
the regular vesper service. Dr. Price H. Gwynn, Jr., will conduct this service. This service has been held annually for
the past few years and each year Dr. Gwynn has been asked to conduct it. He will have faculty members
assisting in the service. Dr. Gwynn is an ordained Presbyterian minister. He is a member of Orange Presbytery of this
state, and of the Synod of North Carolina. He took his divinity degree at Yale University and there he received
his degree of Doctor of Philosophy in education. His undergraduate preparation was at the University of North Carolina, and he
was admitted to the bar of this state. He is a strong believer in the practical application of religion to
social and international problems. One of his outstanding interests is student counseling and guidance. He is chairman of this group
at Davidson and is doing a splendid work in this line. He is a fellow of the National Foundation for
Religion and Higher Education. Dr. Gwynn is very well liked among the students, and has taken an active part in
social work in the local community, being especially active as a leader in the Boy Scout work.

Fund Reaches 300,000 Mark
Thirty thousand dollars of these pledges paid in, only 25 percent of the students have made their first payments on
the pledge. Pledged Money Already Collected
The three hundred thousand dollar mark was reached this week in the Davidson Centennial fund, according to a statement from
Mr. Malcolm Lockhart, who is in charge of the drive. Funds now pledged are already in the bank. The returns
from the first pledges have just been received and Mr. Lockhart says that a new infirmary, fifty thousand dollars for
a professor's chair in the college, and twenty-five thousand dollars for the additions that were pledged thus far have been
pledges of lump sums, but more than several large ones may be added to the college as soon as possible.
The Centennial Fund was begun last year as a part of the Centennial Celebration commemorating the hundredth year of Davidson
College, which was held at a log cabin near Huntersville on Wednesday, May 4. An appeal has been sent to
alumni, friends, and students to make the payments on their pledges promptly so that the new buildings may be started
this summer as soon as the collections on the pledges will warrant.

Dr. and Mrs. Cumming and Prof. Lilly Hosts to Literary Fraternity
Dr. and Mrs. W. P. Cumming and Prof. Henry Lilly were hosts to the last meeting of Sigma Upsilon at
5:30 P.M. Besides the regular student members of the literary organization, the following faculty members were present: Professors A. V.
Goldiere, Dr. Lingle, Fred Smith, and Frazer Hood. Mrs. Cumming read two papers during the evening. The first was of
a short story, the scene of which was laid in a small French village in the Pyrenees mountains, while the
plot consisted of a true story as told to Mrs. Cumming by some of her acquaintances in Europe. The second
article was entitled “Bread and Pence.” This was an actual sketch of life in the French village. (Continued on Page
6)

Ovens Speaks
David Ovens of Charlotte spoke to a meeting of the Commerce Club which was held on Wednesday, May 4 at
7:30 P.M. The meeting was also opened to the student body. His subject for discussion was entitled “Political and Economic
America.” The talk was greatly on the human interest side of the subject. Mr. Ovens said that conditions today in
the political world are unstable and never has there been a time that a President has attacked business as President
Roosevelt has. He said that President Roosevelt is sincere in his unfriendliness to business. With the National Labor Relations Board,
he has taken sides with labor instead of business and has caused the latter to lose confidence. By examining securities
of public utilities before and after the TVA one will see that the government is strongly competing with business. Unemployment
census taken was a joke, Mr. Ovens stated. He said that sensible business men have figured when the national debt
reaches 40 billion dollars it will take nearly 50 years to pay off the debt with three billion dollars a
year carrying charges. The retailing business is fascinating because it deals with the whims, fancies, and wants of one hundred
and twenty million people. To succeed today a boy needs personality, willingness to work hard, lots of sincerity, and a
little brains in any business.

THACKER’S INCORPORATED
“A Good Place To Eat”
221 S. Tryon Street
Charlotte, N. C.
PRIVATE DINING ROOMS FOR BUSINESS AND SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS
PHONE 5490
—— Air Conditioned ——

Officer From Clemson To Conduct Inspection
R.O.T.C. Test to Be Held Tomorrow and Friday
The annual inspection of the local R.O.T.C. unit will take place here tomorrow and Friday. Col. Charles W. Weeks, professor
of military science and tactics at Clemson College, arrived in Davidson today and will begin his work promptly at 8:30
tomorrow morning. After calling on Dr. W. L. Lingle, Colonel Weeks will report to the Reserve Officers Training Corps to
inspect classes. During his inspection, he will inspect property, records, and get the unit ready for Friday classes. Friday classes
will also be inspected although the concentration on the regular classwork will be its inspection. A parade will be held,
as will also a demonstration of squad drill, platoon drill, company drill, section drill, and physical drill. A platoon will
present a demonstration of a tactical problem on the golf course. The complete schedule for Friday afternoon’s inspection will be:
2:15—Battalion forms on Company Parade—Roll Call
2:20—Battalion forms in stadium for Physical Drill
2:35—Form for Battalion Parade
3:40—Practical demonstration of drill by eight men (squad right march, squad left march, squad halt, skirmishers march, and assemble)
3:45—(b) Section of three squads and sergeant (section column march, line of squad columns march, assemble march)
3:50—(c) Platoon of six squads and lieutenant (platoon right march, squads right march, on left into line march)
3:55—(d) Company close order of two platoons
4:00—(e) Company demonstration in attack on golf course

With Air-Flex Collar
SHIRTS $1.39
3 for $4.00
Smartly fitting collar.

PALM BEACH TIES $1.00

HICKOK SPORT BELTS $1.00 and $1.50

WHITE PALM BEACH TUX COATS $13.50

BLACK PALM BEACH DRESS PANTS $6.50

Men's Department Street Floor
BELK’S
Charlotte, N. C.
