Page Six THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, OCT. 19, 1938

Discussion of Polaroid Given By Wheelwright
Relates History of Polaroid Glass and Discoverer, Mr. E. H. Land
By SHAW SMITH

“The Magician, Howard Thurston, was always writing before his death two years ago, trying to get permission to use Polaroid,”
said Mr. George W. Wheelwright, in an interview after his interesting lecture on Polaroid in Chambers auditorium last Wednesday night.
“Thurston wanted to use it in controlling light,” continued Mr. Wheelwright, “and said he could have shown some of the
most advanced mystery ever seen in the magic world through the use of it.”

Polaroid As Polaroid
Thus a fascinating inside story of Polaroid was brought to light about control of light. “But we Polaroid Polaroid—not magic.
That’s why I am here tonight—to show what Polaroid will do,” said Mr. Wheelwright.

It seems that 29-year-old E. H. Land, the inventor of Polaroid—a new means of light control which will affect the
entire lighting system of the world in years to come—started working with his idea at the age of 13. Later,
when he entered Harvard, he studied for his Ph.D. but was too interested in his research. Consequently, both Land and
Mr. Wheelwright resigned from Harvard to put full-time work into developing three-dimensional movies and the chemical, physical makeup of Polaroid.
They were given a laboratory for their work at the university.

News Gets Out
Things were going fine until a man, posing as a high school teacher, asked for information on their work to
give to his class. The next day, the papers carried a story of the new method of controlling headlights. Land’s
name was not mentioned. To give proper credit to Land, a demonstration was given for 20 reporters at the Waldorf-Astoria
Hotel at nine o'clock in the morning. By nine that night, over a thousand people had seen the show merely
through word-of-mouth advertising. Only then did the experimenters realize that they had something in Polaroid.

That same year, 1936, Land got the Hood Medal given for the Greatest Advance in Scientific Aids to Photography by
the Royal Photo Society in England. In this country, Land was awarded the Franklin Medal, of which only twelve to
twenty are alive at one time. Mr. Wheelwright, who is currently touring the United States to publicize Polaroid, noted, “But
we still control it, which is something to be really pleased about,” with a smile.

Wheelwright’s Hobbies
The interview was supposed to be about Mr. Wheelwright, but it appeared that he was more interested in Polaroid. “Well,
I like skiing and photography,” he said, laughing. “I usually end up experimenting with Polaroid pictures.”

STEED, HAND PACE BACKS
[Continued from Page Four]
Both kickers together averaged thirty-nine yards. Although the Gamecocks ran up twenty-five points to none for the Wildcats, they only
made one more first down during the game. They had ten in all to Davidson's nine. These first downs were
offset by penalties though the South Carolinians incurred eighty-five yards of penalties while Davidson was only set back thirty. Davidson's
backs handled the ball unusually well, fumbling only twice, one of which was recovered by Davidson, the other by Carolina.

ROTC Band Visits Sumter
Davidson College’s football band accompanied the team to Sumter, S. C., for the South Carolina-Davidson game held last Friday, Oct.
14. The band left Thursday at noon and arrived in Sumter at 5:30 P.M. The members of the band were
entertained in homes of the townspeople of Sumter Thursday night. They gave a concert at the local fair, being held
at the time, on the same night. Friday morning they jointly enjoyed a barbecue with members of the South Carolina
band. They played during the game and left for Davidson immediately after the game.

Library Buys New Articles
Prof. C. G. Davidson has announced that the Davidson Library has subscribed to the Radio Guide, The National Weekly of
Programs and Personalities. This magazine contains feature stories and newsy items concerning the outstanding programs and personalities to be heard
on the air for a whole week in advance. It even goes so far as to tell the stations in
various localities throughout the entire nation over which these programs may be heard.

The Library has also recently purchased Hayes and Gardner's Both Sides of the Microphone, a volume on training for a
career in radio. The book gives useful and authoritative information, both to those interested from a vocational angle and to
those who listen in. Various other books, whose titles will be announced in the near future, have been ordered.

ROTC Unit Gets Out For Freshman Game
The ROTC department at Davidson turned out en masse for the Davidson-Duke freshman game here in Davidson last Friday.

Class of ’29 Graded Best
Davidson's smartest and most stupid classes graduated in two consecutive years, according to statistics released by F. W. Hengeveld yesterday.
The class having the largest number of “cum laude” and “summa cum laude” diplomas awarded in the last ten years
was the class of 1929, whose number received 38 honors of this kind. The following year seventeen received diplomas “cum
laude” and four were awarded degrees “summa cum laude.” The class of '37 was the largest ever to graduate from
Davidson while the class of ‘19 was the smallest in the last twenty years. There have been 65 diplomas awarded
“summa cum laude” in the last ten years, while 252 received “cum laude” diplomas. Two thousand forty-nine diplomas have been
awarded in the last twenty years, including nine hundred fifty-nine Bachelor of Science degrees, seven hundred thirty-three Bachelor of Arts
degrees and forty Master of Arts degrees.

PHILANTHROPIC ATTENDS
[Continued from Page Five]
Rod Williams, president of the Phi Society, then took charge of the entertainment on the part of the Davidson group.
Archer gave several of Rudyard Kipling’s more famous poems which he had worked up into a very interesting dialogue. This
included “Boots,” “Gunga Din,” and “When Earth’s Last Picture is Painted.” Jack White gave a monologue of jokes and quick
wit much to the amusement of the group, while Dave McLean got out his “gi-tar” and sang some cowboy songs.
Later the whole group entered into the singing led by Ivan Whetmore. At the conclusion of the entertainment, Norton sang
“When I Grow Too Old to Dream.” As an encore she sang “For You” and “Smoke Gets in Your Eyes.”

Chez Norton
Le Palais de la Chevelure
GO TO AN ACADEMIC BARBER

This was a new innovation which was quite pleasing to all the cadets, since the necessary drill was held in
accordance with the regulations at the same time. All the cadets answered the roll call and then marched to the
stadium with their respective companies where they sat and acted as a rousing cheering section during the entire game.4 -
- THE HEELS LEADING
[Continued from Page Four]

Forest and a loss to North Carolina. Wake Forest and Davidson are tied for fourth place in the State race
with no wins and two losses each.

STATE THEATRE
N. C.

Wed.
Pride of West
William Boyd, George Hayes

Oct. 19
Russell Hayden

Thurs-Fri. Oct. 20-21
My Lucky Star
Sonja Henie, Richard Greene

Mon.-Tues. Oct. 24-25
Boy Meets Girl
Pat O’Brien, James Cagney, Marie Wilson

STATE THEATRE
MOORESVILLE, N. C.

Flowers For ANY OCCASION
GOOD QUALITY
REASONABLE PRICES
Roseland Floral Company
6 North Tryon St.
Charlotte, N. C.
Campus Representatives
GEORGE GRANTHAM
ERLE AUSTIN

[Continued from Page Five]

icy stream, at the end of the day the budding prospector had disappointment etched in every line of his lean,
youthful face. He was discouraged beyond measure—he had had prospects of at least seventy-five cents a day. Even now he
admits he was faced by a stubborn temptation to quit his quest for the yellow metal; but he conquered it.
His renowned McLean spirit called him back. The lure of GOLD called him back. The inherent gold-digger in him called
him back. He came back.

The next day McLean once more rose bright and early to do his daily delving. After several hours of sifting
out a few yellow flakes, he was again plumbing the depths of despond when his hopes were sent soaring by
the discovery of a nugget twice the size of a pinhead and worth almost ten cents. Dave redoubled his efforts,
and as nugget followed nugget, his stock rose steadily; ere evening fell, he had amassed a fortune of over twenty-five
dollars.

With a little business to be furnished at home and the desire confronting him, McLean decided to quit while his
luck held out and struck out for home, which he reached without incident.

The girls, under the supervision of Miss Frances Hunter, served refreshments of sandwiches, doughnuts, and hot chocolate. Due to a
strict ruling of the Queens College, the meeting was adjourned promptly at 10 P.M. Other joint meetings are planned both
here on the campus and in Charlotte with the Spectator’s Club.

WILDCATS CONQUERED
[Continued from Page Four]

Henson went over the goal for South Carolina’s first touchdown on the second play. The Gamecocks started another drive after
the kick-off, but the Wildcats took the ball on downs on their own 36 and started a drive of their
own. Two passes from Davis to Stair put the ball on the Carolina 25-yard line, and then Archie Steed, a
sub for Davis, ran to the 12, and thence to the 3. But the Birds stiffened and repulsed the attack.
Then the ‘Cats grabbed a punt and started back, but this time Crews, Carolina end, recovered Steed’s fumble on his
own 15-yard stripe to end the threat.

Grygo Shines

The second half was all South Carolina from start to finish. Soon after the kickoff Grygo broke off tackle and
ran 44 yards to the Davidson 5, but the Wildcats turned back this advance when Grygo passed over the end
zone. The Gamecocks took the ball on downs on Davidson's 21 when Bill Davis saw that his kick would be
blocked and tried to run. Three plays later Grygo scored the second touchdown from the 12.

Running plays carried the Gamecocks to the 'Cats’ 31-yard line, where Clary shot a pass to McMillan on the 12.
Then a holding penalty against Davidson put the ball on the 1, from which Clary went over for the score.
South Carolina scored again when McMillan intercepted a pass and ran to the Davidson 44. Then the powerful ground attack
rolled into action and swept to the 6-yard line, from whence a pass from Williams to Robinson scored the final
touchdown of the day. However, a desperate last-minute pass deep into the Carolina territory, and the final whistle blew with
the 'Cats knocking at touchdown’s door on the 5-yard line.

CUNNINGHAM SPEAKS
[Continued from Page Three]

Another incident in which Christ wept with two mournful women. This reveals to us that God cares about our sorrows,
griefs, and bereavements. Finally, we see Christ on the cross, praying for those who crucified him and suffering for them.

DUKE’S FROSH
[Continued from Page Four]

especially good on end runs and power plays through the line with Sacrinty and Wartman carrying the ball for consistent
gains. Hackney showed up well in the Wildkitten backfield and Marsh was outstanding in the line.

Nothing will develop latent wickedness in a man faster than being watched.

FACULTY BOOKS
[Continued from Page Three]

first colony to Virginia (1585) were the same person. This study appeared in the July 1938 issue of the North
Carolina Historical Review. Another interesting article by a Davidson professor is “The Glossarium Salomons and its Relationship to the Liber
Glossarum.” This was contributed by Professor J. A. McGeachy, Jr., of the History Department, to “Speculum,” a well-known journal of
medieval studies published by the Medieval Academy of America. It appeared in the July 1938 issue of the journal and
establishes the descent of an important medieval dictionary.

FULCHER REVIEWS
[Continued from Page Three]

In order to be eligible, a student must have completed at least three semesters of physics with a specified average,
depending upon what class he is in. He must have completed three semesters of pure mathematics with an average of
at least B.

For 24 Years Vicks Advertising has been passed upon by a Board of Physicians

USE VA-TRO-NOL IN TIME—IT HELPS TO PREVENT COLDS DEVELOPING

Here's specialized medication for the nose and throat—where most colds start. Used at the first sniffle or sneeze—a few drops
up each nostril—helps to prevent many colds from developing. Even when your head is stopped-up from a neglected cold, Va-tro-nol
clears away clogging mucus, shrinks swollen membranes—helps to keep the sinuses open—lets you breathe again!

YOU CAN FEEL ITS TINGLING MEDICATION GO TO WORK
VA-TRO-NOL
Used in more homes than any other medication of its kind

FOR THE DANCES
ALWAYS DEPENDABLE
CORNELIUS
MOOREVILLE
BOBBY GISH - CAMPUS REPRESENTATIVES
DON DAVIDSON
RUFUS PLONK

Copyright 1938, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.

Chesterfield writes it for everybody who smokes ‘em

It’s pleasure you smoke for... everybody knows that... and it’s pleasure you get in every Chesterfield you light. Chesterfields are
milder and better-tasting and here’s the big reason... It takes good things to make a good product. In Chesterfield we
use the best ingredients a cigarette can have... mild ripe tobaccos and pure cigarette paper.

...with MORE PLEASURE for millions

PAUL WHITEMAN
Every Wednesday Evening

GEORGE BURNS
GRACIE ALLEN
Every Friday Evening
All C. B. S. Stations

EDDIE DOOLEY
Football Highlights
Every Thursday and Saturday
52 Leading N. B. C. Stations
