Burning Is: Frosh Vote To Be A Che Mavidsonian

Z528 LIBERTAS

Kang” To Swing t Spring Dances

ALENDA LUX UB! ORTA

VOL. XXV DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., WEDNESDAY, MAR. 2, 1938. No. 24

Girls Offer Opinions In Recent Poll

Girls Schools to Answer Questionnaire Sent Out

Speaks At Vesper Service

Gillette To Be Featured In Concert

Chamber Orchestra Presents Unusual Concert For Local Audience

Primary feature of the forthcoming “Femmes Issue” of Scripts ‘n Pranks will be the candid opinions in the form of a questionnaire of girls from approximately twelve colleges in the surrounding states. This questionnaire was prepared by Sam Ryburn, editor of Scripts ‘n Pranks; he asks some serious questions and some not so serious. Since this issue of the magazine is to be dedicated to members of the fairer sex, Ryburn thought that the girls should give their frank opinions concerning themselves and the members of the opposite sex. Among the colleges to which these blanks were sent are W. C. U.N. C., Salem, Queens, Randolph-Macon, Hollins, Mary Baldwin, St. Mary's, Converse, Winthrop, and others.

First among the questions were those of factual truths, such as their school, class, home town and state. Then came the intimidating query: “How old are you?” with the impertinent foot-note question: “How old do you say you are?” Very personal questions concerning preferences in boys were then stated, for instance: “What type of coiffure do you prefer for boys: curly hair, slick, chain gang bristle, blonde, brunette, or redhead?” and “Do you prefer smoker or non-smoker, drinker, or non-drinker?” Ryburn’s prize quiz was “We hate to bring up this subject, but do you like a mustache?” Other questions were about the girls’ favorites in the chewing gum field and dance hall fields. “Do you rate personality above dancing ability?” perhaps proved puzzling for many of the feminine element. Final questions were about the girls themselves; some of these were: “Do you hope to marry?” Well, then, “Can you cook?” and “Do you put back tooth paste tube caps?”

In addition to this questionnaire, the magazine will feature short stories, jokes, poetry and other literature characteristic of the feminine touch. This “All Chicken Issue,” according to Ryburn, is the first to be held by the college magazine.

Davidson will hear an unusual musical attraction tonight. The Gillette Chamber Orchestra, under the direction of Mr. James Robert Gillette, will present a free concert in Chambers auditorium at 8:30. Mr. Gillette and his orchestra are pioneering a new day in ensemble playing. This group has met with an overwhelming ovation wherever they have presented this concert. The Hammond organ is featured and is said to provide an unusually rich accompaniment to the other instruments. Mr. Gillette, who will be at the console, is one of the outstanding organists in the country. In addition are ten master players who make up the little symphony group.

Three movements of “Sinfonia in B Flat Major” by Johann Bach will open the program. This will be followed by “Andante” and “Rondo” by Lalo. Lorraine Martineau, first violin, will be the soloist. “Rokoko,” a recent work from the pen of a composer (Courtesy Charlotte Observer) will be next on the program. After intermission, Suite “Rokoko,” a recent composition and chamber orchestration by Mr. Gillette, will be presented. This composition will be done in five movements. Mr. Gillette will then play two organ solos, “Claire de lune” by Karg-Elert and “Chromatic Etude” by Gillette; the latter being an exquisite tonal picture of moon beams. The orchestra will then conclude with “Poem Elegiac” by Frederick Lawrence. This was written for Mr. Gillette and his type of chamber music. The music is built on strongly contrasted themes of great beauty. This will be a thrilling musical experience for all who hear this organization, for never before has the Davidson audience been able to hear such a unit of ROTC.

Monroe Wicker Is Author of Proposed Change in Student Constitution

An amendment to the student government constitution giving freshmen the right to vote in all elections after the beginning of the second semester, to become effective during the school year 1939, was presented to the student body at a meeting yesterday afternoon by Teeny Lafferty, president, on behalf of the student council. The council's proposal came after the governing body had heard the amendment read last Monday morning by Monroe Wicker, of the freshman class, brought before a meeting of the council Monday morning. After prolonged discussion and debate, the council voted to present the amendment to the student body for a vote. The amendment, if passed, will give freshmen the right to vote in all elections upon and after the opening of the second semester. This section shall go into effect immediately upon its passage and shall be a part of the constitution, and all clauses in conflict with this amendment in the constitution shall be repealed.

New Catalog Shows Several Changes

Noted In Yearly Publication

The Davidson College Catalog for the 1938 session has just come off the press, and copies are available for all who want them at the registrar's office. Although the jacket design and interior make-up are the same as the Centennial edition of last year, there are a few changes, notably in the arrangement of the faculty list, the new courses and a description of the recently completed infirmary. In several departments, the courses offered alternate from year to year.

Citadel Team Defeats Davidson

The Davidson College unit of ROTC met the Citadel team here last Saturday afternoon February 26. Due to the excellence of the Citadel marksmen, the Davidsonians were again defeated by them in their return match. “The Citadel rifle-men were in the best form of the season,” was the reported comment of their instructor. It was hoped Davidson would get this victory, because it lost last time only by a slight margin. However, Davidson was defeated by them in their return match.

Debaters Win Against Emory

Hill, Scott, and Calvin Return From Tour Friday

The southern debate team, comprising Haywood Hill, Neal Scott, and Joe Calvin, alternate, will return to the campus Friday, victorious in the only decision debate in which they participated, winning over the team of Emory University.

LeGette Blythe Discusses Work of Modern Newspaper Reporter

LeGette Blythe, well-known newspaperman and recent author, was guest speaker at the last meeting of the journalism class last Wednesday evening. Mr. Frederick Smith, director of the class, introduced him to the group. Having a particular topic upon which to make an especial address, Mr. Blythe chose the modern news reporter and the work of the journalist.Year . . day, February 21, they met the newspaper world. He said, “men be able to meet the editor hopes that this will become an annual issue, as well as the regular Homecoming issue.”

Four English courses—41-42—American literature, 51-52—Advanced Composition, 71-72—English Prose of the Eighteenth Century, and Poetry and Prose of the Romantic Period, and 101-102—European Novel, and Victorian Literature; one history course—271-72—American Thought and Civilization; three math courses—51—Solid Analytic Geometry, 52—Elementary, and Solid Geometry.

At the freshman debate try-outs in Phi Hall Friday evening, the following were selected as members of the freshman debating team: Drury Thompson, Barker, Loftin, and Gilmer. Those chosen as alternates were Bobby Williams and Hector McLean. Judges for the try-outs were the members of the varsity debating team and their alternates. Bill Kiesewetter, a member of the ROTC department, said of the speeches, “The speeches on the whole were unusually good.” Because of the talent shown by those who tried out, the Forensic Council is contemplating several inter-collegiate debates for the freshmen. It has definitely been decided that there will be inter-squad debates for the freshmen. The proposition debated was: “Resolved: That the National Labor Relations Board be empowered to enforce arbitration in industrial disputes.”

The Davidsonian was edited and made up by sophomore members of the editorial staff, who occupied the places of the junior editors for the first time last Monday night. Six men will be chosen, in a few weeks, from the sophomores, to serve as junior editors for next year. The sophomores responsible for the pages are: Assignment editor, Charlie Luther; page one, Jack Abernathy, Jack Holland; page three, John Withers, Harry Hendrick; page four (sports), Tom Casali, Bob Wood; page five, Karl Hudson, Sam Spencer; page six, Harper Beall, Walter Fitzgerald.

Hitch-hiking proved to be false economy for two Miami U. freshmen who had started toward New York City. A car pulled up to them on a lonely road and the driver covered them with a pistol. They were relieved of their wallets, containing a total of $16.

The seventeen freshmen who tried for places on the team were: Bobby Williams, Lawson Withers, Drury Thompson, Boyd Flynn, Karl Jonas, Bob Brandon, Herbert Coddington, Frank Barker, Hector McLean, Bill Loftin, Ed Watson, Winston Taylor, John Gilmer, Vernon Youngblood, Armistead Burwell, Phil Clayton, and John Woodward.

Representatives Are Sent To Conduct Services In Various Places

Saturday and Sunday—four different deputations left the campus for various destinations. Besides the deputations, one representative left for the state Y. W.-Y. M. C. A. meeting at the University of N. C. Walker represented Davidson at a joint meeting held at Chapel Hill, at which plans were made for the annual spring Y. W.-Y. M. C. A. retreat at Camp Nawakwa.

The names and degrees of the faculty are listed under the rank heading rather than seniority as heretofore. There are 27 in the full professorship, 48 associate professors, 50 assistant professors, and 2 instructors. There are listed also the various names of those who won special honors in their student life last year.

Early Morning Prayer To Be Held Friday

The Student Volunteer Council, in cooperation with the Ministerial Association, is observing World Day of Prayer next Friday, March 4. A special meeting will be conducted at seven o'clock in the morning. This early morning meeting, known as one of the best musical services in this section of the country, will be primarily a prayer service. It will be held on the steps of the ROTC department if the weather permits.

The Davidsonian Recognizes

Bob Ramsey, editor of The Asheville Citizen Times, will be chief speaker at the convention held at the University of Tennessee and Kentucky on Wednesday, March 9. He recently published “Marshalled Forces,” a story about Napoleon's great aide and presents arguments for the theory that he was in reality the Peter Stuart Ney who was closely connected with Davidson College in its early days.

The Davidsonian recognizes Julian as one of the best musicians in this section of the country. Julian got his start a good many years ago and has done his part since he entered here four years ago. As a consequence, he now fills capably several important positions in the Davidson music department. Besides holding an assistantship in music, he has been head drum major of the football band for four years, having been elected to that place when only a freshman. He also serves as president of the symphonic band and has attained the rank of captain in the R. O. T. C. band, the highest position in that organization. Julian, the second man on the campus to be heralded by “The Davidsonian Recognizes” committee, made up of a group of unbiased students, was recognized last month by the committee. This manner of recognition has become a monthly Davidsonian feature.

The Davidsonian and the Core Relations Board will hold a meeting at the Queens-Chicora, Charlotte Y. M. C. A. on Wednesday, March 9. The meeting will be held at the Charlotte Y. M. C. A. and will be attended by representatives from several universities of Tennessee and Kentucky. The meeting will be held at the Charlotte Y. M. C. A. and will be attended by representatives from several universities of Tennessee and Kentucky. The meeting will be held at the Charlotte Y. M. C. A. and will be attended by representatives from several universities of Tennessee and Kentucky. The meeting will be held at the Charlotte Y. M. C. A. and will be attended by representatives from several universities of Tennessee and Kentucky. The meeting will be held at the Charlotte Y. M. C. A. and will be attended by representatives from several universities of Tennessee and Kentucky. The meeting will be held at the Charlotte Y. M. C. A. and will be attended by representatives from several universities of Tennessee and Kentucky. The meeting will be held at the Charlotte Y. M. C. A. and will be attended by representatives from several universities of Tennessee and Kentucky. The meeting will be held at the Charlotte Y. M. C. A. and will be attended by representatives from several universities of Tennessee and Kentucky. The meeting will be held at the Charlotte Y. M. C. A. and will be attended by representatives from several universities of Tennessee and Kentucky. The meeting will be held at the Charlotte Y. M. C. A. and will be attended by representatives from several universities of Tennessee and Kentucky. The meeting will be held at the Charlotte Y. M. C. A. and will be attended by representatives from several universities of Tennessee and Kentucky. The meeting will be held at the Charlotte Y. M. C. A. and will be attended by representatives from several universities of Tennessee and Kentucky. The meeting will be held at the Charlotte Y. M. C. A. and will be attended by representatives from several universities of Tennessee and Kentucky. The meeting will be held at the Charlotte Y. M. C. A. and will be attended by representatives from several universities of Tennessee and Kentucky. The meeting will be held at the Charlotte Y. M. C. A. and will be attended by representatives from several universities of Tennessee and Kentucky. The meeting will be held at the Charlotte Y. M. C. A. and will be attended by representatives from several universities of Tennessee and Kentucky. The meeting will be held at the Charlotte Y. M. C. A. and will be attended by representatives from several universities of Tennessee and Kentucky. The meeting will be held at the Charlotte Y. M. C. A. and will be attended by representatives from several universities of Tennessee and Kentucky. The meeting will be held at the Charlotte Y. M. C. A. and will be attended by representatives from several universities of Tennessee and Kentucky. The meeting will be held at the Charlotte Y. M. C. A. and will be attended by representatives from several universities of Tennessee and Kentucky. The meeting will be held at the Charlotte Y. M. C. A. and will be attended by representatives from several universities of Tennessee and Kentucky. The meeting will be held at the Charlotte Y. M. C. A. and will be attended by representatives from several universities of Tennessee and Kentucky. The meeting will be held at the Charlotte Y. M. C. A. and will be attended by representatives from several universities of Tennessee and Kentucky. The meeting will be held at the Charlotte Y. M. C. A. and will be attended by representatives from several universities of Tennessee and Kentucky. The meeting will be held at the Charlotte Y. M. C. A. and will be attended by representatives from several universities of Tennessee and Kentucky. The meeting will be held at the Charlotte Y. M. C. A. and will be attended by representatives from several universities of Tennessee and Kentucky. The meeting will be held at the Charlotte Y. M. C. A. and will be attended by representatives from several universities of Tennessee and Kentucky. The meeting will be held at the Charlotte Y. M. C. A. and will be attended by representatives from several universities of Tennessee and Kentucky. The meeting will be held at the Charlotte Y. M. C. A. and will be attended by representatives from several universities of Tennessee and Kentucky. The meeting will be held at the Charlotte Y. M. C. A. and will be attended by representatives from several universities of Tennessee and Kentucky. The meeting will be held at the Charlotte Y. M. C. A. and will be attended by representatives from several universities of Tennessee and Kentucky. The meeting will be held at the Charlotte Y. M. C. A. and will be attended by representatives from several universities of Tennessee and Kentucky. The meeting will be held at the Charlotte Y. M. C. A. and will be attended by representatives from several universities of Tennessee and Kentucky. The meeting will be held at the Charlotte Y. M. C. A. and will be attended by representatives from several universities of Tennessee and Kentucky. The meeting will be held at the Charlotte Y. M. C. A. and will be attended by representatives from several universities of Tennessee and Kentucky. The meeting will be held at the Charlotte Y. M. C. A. and will be attended by representatives from several universities of Tennessee and Kentucky. The meeting will be held at the Charlotte Y. M. C. A. and will be attended by representatives from several universities of Tennessee and Kentucky. The meeting will be held at the Charlotte Y. M. C. A. and will be attended by representatives from several universities of Tennessee and Kentucky. The meeting will be held at the Charlotte Y. M. C. A. and will be attended by representatives from several universities of Tennessee and Kentucky. The meeting will be held at the Charlotte Y. M. C. A. and will be attended by representatives from several universities of Tennessee and Kentucky. The meeting will be held at the Charlotte Y. M. C. A. and will be attended by representatives from several universities of Tennessee and Kentucky. The meeting will be held at the Charlotte Y. M. C. A. and will be attended by representatives from several universities of Tennessee and Kentucky. The meeting will be held at the Charlotte Y. M. C. A. and will be attended by representatives from several universities of Tennessee and Kentucky. The meeting will be held at the Charlotte Y. M. C. A. and will be attended by representatives from several universities of Tennessee and Kentucky. The meeting will be held at the Charlotte Y. M. C. A. and will be attended by representatives from several universities of Tennessee and Kentucky. The meeting will be held at the Charlotte Y. M. C. A. and will be attended by representatives from several universities of Tennessee and Kentucky. The meeting will be held at the Charlotte Y. M. C. A. and will be attended by representatives from several universities of Tennessee and Kentucky. The meeting will be held at the Charlotte Y. M. C. A. and will be attended by representatives from several universities of Tennessee and Kentucky. The meeting will be held at the Charlotte Y. M. C. A. and will be attended by representatives from several universities of Tennessee and Kentucky. The meeting will be held at the Charlotte Y. M. C. A. and will be attended by representatives from several universities of Tennessee and Kentucky. The meeting will be held at the Charlotte Y. M. C. A. and will be attended by representatives from several universities of Tennessee and Kentucky. The meeting will be held at the Charlotte Y. M. C. A. and will be attended by representatives from several universities of Tennessee and Kentucky. The meeting will be held at the Charlotte Y. M. C. A. and will be attended by representatives from several universities of Tennessee and Kentucky. The meeting will be held at the Charlotte Y. M. C. A. and will be attended by representatives from several universities of Tennessee and Kentucky. The meeting will be held at the Charlotte Y. M. C. A. and will be attended by representatives from several universities of Tennessee and Kentucky. The meeting will be held at the Charlotte Y. M. C. A. and will be attended by representatives from several universities of Tennessee and Kentucky. The meeting will be held at the Charlotte Y. M. C. A. and will be attended by representatives from several universities of Tennessee and Kentucky. The meeting will be held at the Charlotte Y. M. C. A. and will be attended by representatives from several universities of Tennessee and Kentucky. The meeting will be held at the Charlotte Y. M. C. A. and will be attended by representatives from several universities of Tennessee and Kentucky. The meeting will be held at the Charlotte Y. M. C. A. and will be attended by representatives from several universities of Tennessee and Kentucky. The meeting will be held at the Charlotte Y. M. C. A. and will be attended by representatives from several universities of Tennessee and Kentucky. The meeting will be held at the Charlotte Y. M. C. A. and will be attended by representatives from several universities of Tennessee and Kentucky. The meeting will be held at the Charlotte Y. M. C. A. and will be attended by representatives from several universities of Tennessee and Kentucky. The meeting will be held at the Charlotte Y. M. C. A. and will be attended by representatives from several universities of Tennessee and Kentucky. The meeting will be held at the Charlotte Y. M. C. A. and will be attended by representatives from several universities of Tennessee and Kentucky. The meeting will be held at the Charlotte Y. M. C. A. and will be attended by representatives from several universities of Tennessee and Kentucky. The meeting will be held at the Charlotte Y. M. C. A. and will be attended by representatives from several universities of Tennessee and Kentucky. The meeting will be held at the Charlotte Y. M. C. A. and will be attended by representatives from several universities of Tennessee and Kentucky. The meeting will be held at the Charlotte Y. M. C. A. and will be attended by representatives from several universities of Tennessee and Kentucky. The meeting will be held at the Charlotte Y. M. C. A. and will be attended by representatives from several universities of Tennessee and Kentucky. The meeting will be held at the Charlotte Y. M. C. A. and will be attended by representatives from several universities of Tennessee and Kentucky. The meeting will be held at the Charlotte Y. M. C. A. and will be attended by representatives from several universities of Tennessee and Kentucky. The meeting will be held at the Charlotte Y. M. C. A. and will be attended by representatives from several universities of Tennessee and Kentucky. The meeting will be held at the Charlotte Y. M. C. A. and will be attended by representatives from several universities of Tennessee and Kentucky. The meeting will be held at the Charlotte Y. M. C. A. and will be attended by representatives from several universities of Tennessee and Kentucky. The meeting will be held at the Charlotte Y. M. C. A. and will be attended by representatives from several universities of Tennessee and Kentucky. The meeting will be held at the Charlotte Y. M. C. A. and will be attended by representatives from several universities of Tennessee and Kentucky. The meeting will be held at the Charlotte Y. M. C. A. and will be attended by representatives from several universities of Tennessee and Kentucky. The meeting will be held at the Charlotte Y. M. C. A. and will be attended by representatives from several universities of Tennessee and Kentucky. The meeting will be held at the Charlotte Y. M. C. A. and will be attended by representatives from several universities of Tennessee and Kentucky. The meeting will be held at the Charlotte Y. M. C. A. and will be attended by representatives from several universities of Tennessee and Kentucky. The meeting will be held at the Charlotte Y. M. C. A. and will be attended by representatives from several universities of Tennessee and Kentucky. The meeting will be held at the Charlotte Y. M. C. A. and will be attended by representatives from several universities of Tennessee and Kentucky. The meeting will be held at the Charlotte Y. M. C. A. and will be attended by representatives from several universities of Tennessee and Kentucky. The meeting will be held at the Charlotte Y. M. C. A. and will be attended by representatives from several universities of Tennessee and Kentucky. The meeting will be held at the Charlotte Y. M. C. A. and will be attended by representatives from several universities of Tennessee and Kentucky. The meeting will be held at the Charlotte Y. M. C. A. and will be attended by representatives from several universities of Tennessee and Kentucky. The meeting will be held at the Charlotte Y. M. C. A. and will be attended by representatives from several universities of Tennessee and Kentucky. The meeting will be held at the Charlotte Y. M. C. A. and will be attended by representatives from several universities of Tennessee and Kentucky. The meeting will be held at the Charlotte Y. M. C. A. and will be attended by representatives from several universities of Tennessee and Kentucky. The meeting will be held at the Charlotte Y. M. C. A. and will be attended by representatives from several universities of Tennessee and Kentucky. The meeting will be held at the Charlotte Y. M. C. A. and will be attended by representatives from several universities of Tennessee and Kentucky. The meeting will be held at the Charlotte Y. M. C. A. and will be attended by representatives from several universities of Tennessee and Kentucky. The meeting will be held at the Charlotte Y. M. C. A. and will be attended by representatives from several universities of Tennessee and Kentucky. The meeting will be held at the Charlotte Y. M. C. A. and will be attended by representatives from several universities of Tennessee and Kentucky. The meeting will be held at the Charlotte Y. M. C. A. and will be attended by representatives from several universities of Tennessee and Kentucky. The meeting will be held at the Charlotte Y. M. C. A. and will be attended by representatives from several universities of Tennessee and Kentucky. The meeting will be held at the Charlotte Y. M. C. A. and will be attended by representatives from several universities of Tennessee and Kentucky. The meeting will be held at the Charlotte Y. M. C. A. and will be attended by representatives from several universities of Tennessee and Kentucky. The meeting will be held at the Charlotte Y. M. C. A. and