WEDNESDAY, FEB. 16, 1938 Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN The Davidsonian probability, the greater percent of the voters will fill out
their ballots, not as a seriously considered duty, but as a part of the daily Campus in Cartoon King For
A Founded By the Class of 1915 routine. And their ballots will get just about as much consideration and a
good deal less than their morning coffee. You should have done it already, but if you have not, look around,
see what goes on, and from your observations, make a serious attempt to discover the best men for carrying on
next year's student body duties. For if the wrong man goes in, and if you complain about the manner in
which he conducts his work and handles his duties, you will have nobody else to blame. And, above all, make
your own decision. Don't let anybody influence you. If you do, it is a reflection on your integrity, independence, sense,
and intelligence.

HANK LUISETTI, CRACK STANFORD FORWARD, SCORED 50 POINTS IN A GAME WITH DUQUESNE. HIS PERFORMANCE BROKE THE OLD RECORD BY
A MERE 16 POINTS.

Published Weekly "For a Better Davidson" Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY Charlotte, North Carolina

I took necessary space here to describe horde of delectable items that deluged Davidson the past week-end, you fellows awaiting
the telephone number of Miss Gail probably want a singing assistant. That lets Lem out.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY National Advertising Service, Inc. 420 Madison Avenue, New York City Chicago - Boston - Los
Angeles - San Francisco

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879.

DICK VOWLES .......... Editor-in-Chief CHARLES MOORE........ Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF Fitzhugh Dade........ Assistant Editor Perry Sloan........ Managing Editor Gill Marquess........ Managing Editor Sam Cohoon........ Managing Editor Hector McGeachy........
Editor Henry Baker........ Movie Editor Wesley Coons........ Editor

BUSINESS STAFF John Havener........ Advertising Manager Sam Newbold........ Circulation Manager

For Juniors Only

Apparently the trend of the graduating senior is more and more to graduate work in his particular field. You, as
juniors, do not want to find yourselves in the same boat that many seniors find themselves adrift in. You want
to make sure before you apply for graduate work. Don't neglect so important an item. Consult your faculty adviser or
the professor of the subject in which you are taking your major. Investigate the requirements imposed upon graduates by the
schools you are particularly interested in. Don't come out on the short end of your college course.

Letters to the Editor

All letters over 150 words in length subject to cutting. All letters considered for publication must be signed, although the
signature may be withheld if desired.

Special Letter to the Editor (Continued from Page 1)

Conditions can be changed. The fundamental weaknesses in the system—because Boru is convinced it is the system and not the
individual which is at fault—can be strengthened. And Boru Scholarship has usually been more fruitful when associated with religion, and
scholarship has never, so far as I can recall, been associated with any religion except the religion of Jesus Christ.
Yet there is hope. —Woodrow Wilson.

Tribute To McIntyre

In all probability, no newspaper columnist was as well known as O. O. McIntyre, and no column as well read
as his. Millions of Americans will feel something missing in their morning papers, some of the zest in the printed
page departed when his column ceases to appear. Undoubtedly the passing of McIntyre is a great loss to the newspaper
field, a loss that will be hard to fill. We pause to pay tribute to the memory of that great
newspaper man, "Odd" McIntyre.

National Crisis...

Something approaching very close to a national crisis is on our hands. Unless we do our part to prevent the
drift our nation will slide once more into war as it did in 1917. We must write our Senators, Congressmen,
and the President, insisting that certain policies be followed to prevent our being drawn into war.

1. We must refuse to countenance an increase in the naval appropriations until the Administration makes its foreign policy perfectly
clear. Are we going to "defend" our interests in Shanghai and Nanking? Are those tankers being built with a 14,000
mile cruising range for "defending" our interests in San Francisco or Yokohama? Is our coast line from Alaska to Hawaii
to the Panama Canal, or does it run away out into the middle of a host of Japanese islands to
take in Guam?

2. We must insist that our nationals be warned to get out of China and withdraw military protection from them
after due notice.

3. We must insist that our warships be withdrawn from Singapore at once. We have no business in an international
blockade of the Pacific. And everybody seems to know but we Americans, that our ships are not over there just
for afternoon tea with the British admiral.

4. The Hill-Sheppard Bill, coming before Congress, which would make the United States, in time of war, a dictatorship, must
be defeated.

5. The shipment of war materials to Japan and other nations must be stopped. Japan is building her military establishment
with our materials.

If these and related matters which we are reading about daily in our papers and listening to over the radio
are not attended to at once, we will find ourselves drawing Great Britain’s chestnuts out of the Sino-Japanese fire, or
helping to defeat Japan in a war which she has already lost economically, and thus give other nations their old
footholds in China again. —R.A.T.

Who's Your Man?...

In less than a month, the activity and suspense of Spring Elections will have descended uponThe cloistered peace of the
Davidson campus. In less than a month, approximately five hundred upperclassmen will be filling out ballots in chapel every morning.
And, in all, 1938 was one of the most pleasant and wholesome social functions in the history of Davidson. Although
the music was exceptionally good, the decorations timely appropriate, and the girls extremely beautiful, the success of the occasion was
not due to these factors alone. Rather, it was largely attributable to the complete cooperation of the Council and student
body with the faculty on a matter which during the past several months has been the cause of an unreasonable
amount of dissentious opinion. Regardless of diverse convictions with respect to the dance situation, I am convinced that Davidson has
clearly and definitely shown that dancing and drinking are not synonyms and should not be necessarily associated. Although there may
be those who believe that the method employed for abolishing drinking at our dances is not the best available, nevertheless
one must admit that it is very effective and that its results in no manner detract from the pleasure of
a dance weekend. We are justly proud of the fighting spirit of our teams on the athletic field, the friendly
feeling of one Davidson student to another on the campus, and now we can be equally proud of the gentlemanly
conduct of the student body on the dance floor. The present Pan-Hellenic Council should pride itself in the fact that
on its shoulders has been placed the privilege of ushering a new movement into the social life of Davidson which
we hope will soon become an established tradition. I speak for the larger portion of the student body when I
offer my congratulations to the Council and to those in any way connected with the success of the dances for
having accomplished this task so efficiently. —JIMMY REINHARDT.

Betty Coed has rhythm, but Joe College has almost twice as much. Tests given at Miami University showed that while
the women’s score was a bare 39—or eleven points below an average struck on the basis of 10,000 similar studies
throughout the U.S.—men students achieved a rating of 67.

Ticket scalping at Harvard-Yale football games was picketed by student “sandwich men” whose signs read: “Scalp the Scalpers. Scalpers Unfair
to Harvard Men.” Students reported speculators were asking as much as $50 for a pair of seats for a game.

Depauw University’s 750 men students foot most of the “date” bills, but despite those expensive items spend less in a
year than the 450 coeds. Davidson student body is this: "keep your mouth shut." Alexander Pope might well have been
describing the leaders elected by the leaders hollow? One would expect them to be, when he considers the qualifications on
which they are elected. Advice regularly given to freshmen, who seem to be potential leaders, is to become a member—a
star, preferably—of some athletic team and bask in the sunshine of the smiles of the crowd: smile constantly; and then
people will say of you: “A fine fellow! A good boy! I have never heard him utter a foolish statement!”
Boru has yet to hear any statement—wise or foolish—from the followers of this formula. Once the student body has found
a likely leader it proceeds to heap an infinite number of duties on his non-complaining back. And he, flashing his
constant smile, glibly forgets his obligations to fulfill his duties, and takes, in his brilliant stride, the unceasing list of
“honors.” These are the weaknesses in the system, with regard to leaders, and Boru would like to see the system
improved. A student body as large as Davidson's needs CONTROLLED POLITICS in its elections so that the leaders may be
elected for their leadership, not for their “hale-fellow-well-met” capacities. A student body, which has the potential leadership Davidson has, should
assure itself of maximum efficiency from each of its officers by a POINT SYSTEM which would limit any one man’s
duties. “Wake up, Davidson! Yours for a better Davidson.”

LAST WEEK'S LETTER CONTRADICTED

Dear Mr. Editor: Boru wasted his time and was foolish in what he said in your paper last week. We
made all his argument depend on democracy and everybody knows there is nothing to that anymore. Every country is turning
to dictatorships now and there is no reason why this campus should not follow the crowd. Besides, the seniors know
more men on the campus than anybody. Our upperclassmen do all they can to help the freshmen get started off
right and you know the seniors know practically all the underclassmen and are really interested in them and their problems.
Also, the senior class, even though they are about to graduate and leave, is very interested in how things get
on on the campus, so they will do all they can to help Davidson! and once awake, move forward!” BORU.
conditions and they will vote right. I hope all your readers will see these mistakes Boru has made and will
pay no more attention to him. Conscientiously yours, —'39.

EX-COLUMNIST MISSES YE RAG

Dear Dick: Received the last issue of The Davidsonian on Saturday and appreciate your sending it very much. It was
good to see the old rag again, but it brought a feeling of intense nostalgia. You all are putting out
one of the finest college newspapers I've ever seen. Chubby's column makes me blush with shame, and every feature is
most commendable. My best wishes to The Davidsonian. Yours very truly, —AL CADE, '37. Former Davidsonian Columnist.

From Campus to Campus (By Associated Collegiate Press)

Because he took a cow to college with him, a student at Presbyterian Junior College, Maxton, N.C., has been able
to pay his way through college. When he entered school, he brought with him a good milk cow from home,
housed her in a nearby barn and proceeded to milk her and sell the milk to the college dining hall.
He numbers among his extra-curricular activities the milking and feeding and also keeping bossie's stall neat.

There is a new ice cream eating champ at Harvard. He clinched the title for the championship by putting away
24 plates—four vanilla, 18 chocolate and a sundae of particularly venomous appearance. The previous titleholder, a freshman, yielded to fatigue
(or frigidity) at 19 plates.

The Men's Protective Association at Kent State College has the coeds biting their fingernails. It proposes “protection” for members against
alleged coed offenses, to wit: Golddigging, last-minute “date” breaking, standing up “dates” and flirting with another while on same. Plus
other items. Men students get a list of questions monthly, and if their answers heap guilt upon coeds, a “black
list” does the rest. The men must steer clear of the “guilty” or pay a penalty.

(Continued on Page 6)

and the unsuspecting Sunday School salesman, his morning's boast forgotten, was driving his friend and The Date back to school
from the dance. Suddenly The Date, (pre-arranged with the boyfriend) reaches over and kisses Bounder very soundly—poor Bounder ran the
car off the road and nearly overturned, and according to wit- 6 clothes and blankets left about 3 AM Sunday
morning with Dates to cook steaks in the woods... Crooner Gilliam’s ‘sweet nothings” enthralled lady listeners... Where was Greasy Gus
from noon Friday ’til after church Sunday night? Last minute flash with news of Bruce Peabody's marriage in Washington, D.C.
It really seems that spring is here with fair weather and “little apples” blossoming everywhere. (If it’s cold, now don't
laugh because this is being written on Sunday). Seriously though the greatest wonder to me over the weekend was how
these girls can do this “little apple” all night long apparently without getting tired. A boy is worn to a
frazzle after one or two dances but these girls can go on forever. Who said they were the weaker sex?
And while we are speaking of the dances let's put in our complaint about the music. Honestly it has gone
too far when the orchestra plays a “Killer-diller” for a no-break dance. And didn't the council promise us one of
the top-ranking bands of the country? Anyway it’s over, no harm done, and I for one had a swell time.
So.

Beginners’ Stakes... Two cloak-and-suiters went to their country club to shoot their first game of golf. At the first tee
one of them drove the ball 150 yards. His friend teed off and made a 200-yard drive. Their initial success
imbued them with gambling spirits. “Dees is a werry ‘h’intristink game,” said the first one. “Haw abott inwesting in a
side bate?” His friend was amenable to wagering upon his golfing prowess. “Hukay,” he agreed. “Hah motch vill ve play
for? Name your figure.” “I’ll tell you vot,” replied the first one. “Lat’s make it rizzonable. Hah abott—five cents a
hondred?”

Fun... Having fun is a great institution. Who doesn’t enjoy having fun? But it seems that some things can be
overdone. Somebody showed their warped sense of humor the other night when they drove their car all over the campus.
I mean in the front yard of Chambers building and all over the field at the left of the building.
Another example is shown by the boy who threw his used chewing gum into the crowd that stood in front
of the orchestra. He didn't seem to mind the fact that it got in a girl’s hair and distressed her
so much that she cried. Sure fun is fun but we could show consideration for other people. Little things can
ruin the whole weekend for a person—so think it over.

Parting Shot... Here is this column's nomination for the best gag of the weekend: A certain person approached another boy,
looked him over from head to toe, rubbed his hand over his shoulder, fingered the lapel of his coat and
said, “That’s nice material; why don't you have it made into a suit?”

The Place To Go... NORTON’S BARBER SHOP
