WEDNESDAY, APRIL 27, 1938 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Three

Vespers Conducted By Graduate of Davidson
Wee Thompson, '34, Gives Talk on Religious Attitude Of Students

W.W. Thompson of Union Theological Seminary led the vesper services last Sunday evening in Chambers.

1938 Summer School Opens On June 15th

Converse French Players

Bible Is Given In Memory of Wm. Atkinson
Davidson Will Receive Coveted Carnegie Set
Davidson First North Carolina School Awarded Carnegie Music Set

Davidson College has just been awarded a Carnegie Music Set. 

Fleagle to Direct Summer Session
Six New Speakers’ Stand Is Placed In Chambers

Carnegie Sets are given to colleges that have demonstrated a commitment to music education. 

In memory of Dr. William Atkinson, a Bible has been presented to Davidson College by his son, George H. Atkinson. Dr. William Atkinson was for many years president of the college.

The 1938 Summer Session of Davidson College will open on June 15th and will continue for six weeks, closing on July 22.

Mr. Thompson brought out that there were in nearly every college three classes of people: First, the small group of convinced unbelievers who have no relations in any way with God. Second, a rather small group of hard-working Christians who work and worship sincerely. Third, the largest group of all, the men who come from Christian families and confess belief in Christ and Christian principles, but who do not put their beliefs about Christianity into practice. “A thing is real to us in proportion as we pay attention to it,” said Thompson.

Wee Thompson of Richmond, graduated from Davidson several years ago. "Wee" was a member of the Kappa Sigma fraternity, the Phi Beta Kappa, and an Omicron Delta Kappa man. Eight different fraternities elected Thompson to their brotherhoods. He was also a member of the Beaver Club, played football for four years, and was managing editor of the Davidsonian, and also president of the "Y."

The courses to be offered at Davidson's Summer Session include:

Bible 21, 22—Old and New Testament History, 6 hours—Prof. Schenck
Biology 31—Invertebrate and Vertebrate, 6 hours—Prof. Lyon
Chemistry 31, 32—Qualitative and Quantitative Analysis, 8 hours—Prof. Mikes
Chemistry 41, 42—Organic Chemistry, 8 hours—Prof. Patton
Economics 31, 32—Money and Banking, 6 hours—Prof. Brown
Education—Elementary grades, Methods and Supervision, 6 hours—Miss Browning
English 21, 22—A Survey of English Literature, 6 hours—Prof. Irwin
Geography—3 hours—Prof. Porter
German 11, 12—Elementary German, 6 hours—Prof. Johnston
History 51, 52—History of the United States of America, 6 hours—Prof. Cumming
Hygiene and Health—3 hours—Prof. Verity
Mathematics 11, 12—College Algebra and Plane Trigonometry, 6 hours—Prof. Wood
Music—3 hours of elective work as outlined in the Music Department

Members of Converse College's Alliance Francaise (shown above) were the guests of Davidson's Le Cercle Francais on Tuesday of last week. They rendered the comedy “Ces Dames aux Chapeaux Verts” in Chambers Auditorium. Le Cercle Francais returned the Alliance's visit when they journeyed to Converse last Thursday and presented two plays, “La Lettre Chargee,” and “L’homme de la Nuit.” (Courtesy Charlotte Observer)

The old collection plates in Chambers Auditorium have been replaced by new wooden ones. 

Pi Kappa Alphas went to Clemson for their “Pap” dance. Nick Perry invited the chapter and celebrated with a banquet and dance during the Christmas holidays. The music was furnished by Chub Wing and his Collegians. This was the largest dinner-dance in the history of this chapter as over one hundred and fifty were present.

The Alumni chapter of the Kappa Sigma fraternity has placed an order for the new phonograph, which is included in the Carnegie Music Set. This phonograph is supposed to be the best made, and the type best suited for this purpose. Later, when the library is transferred to the new Library, it will probably be placed there.

Next year, Mr. McDonald hopes to be able to present weekly lectures for the student and town people on musical appreciation.

Williams Is President For Next Semester
Newly elected officers in the Philanthropic Literary Society for the following half-year are: J. R. Williams, president; T. J. Abernathy, vice-president; Paul Crane, secretary; D. A. McLean, treasurer; Ivan Whetmore, first critic; and D. H. Rodgers, second critic. The regular meeting was held last Thursday night.

Dr. Cumming Elected Fiji’s Purple Legionnaire
At their weekly meeting last Thursday night, the local Phi Gamma Delta chapter re-elected Dr. W. P. Cumming, faculty member, to serve as Purple Legionnaire for 1938. Cage Brewer, Owen Cooke, Jim Dorsett, Gene Garner, Bill Kiesewetter, and others attended the district convention at Duke last Friday and Saturday.

Stitt Robinson attended Eta Sigma Phi's national convention in Columbus, Ohio last week. Addison Love has been elected to the Pan-Hellenic Council for the coming year. Walter Dickson and Paul Fuller visited the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill over the weekend, attending the May Frolics. Jim Thomas and "Bick" Bicklen went on the trip with the baseball team. Shaw Colin put on a show in Rockingham last week. 

Jack Lafferty traveled to Roanoke, Va., for the weekend. Charlie Ray visited in Richmond Saturday and Sunday. Ralph Monger went to Chester for the weekend. Many of the brothers traveled to Charlotte on Saturday night, among them were Bill Boyd, Ovid Bell, Tommy Wells, Andy Wale, and others. Spencer and Prior made escapades during the weekend.to attend to very important business. Gene Vereen attended the TEE OGIRE navel fire prominent pea the Commerce (vet Tuesday night, April 19, and after Bulletin Mr. Pfohl Lawrence. Reid attended the May int 1 Charlotte Sunday night suite dance at the Davidson high fort complete tel: tat l Phi Ha the report of the nomination and Physics 21,22 General College Frolics at Chapel Hill last week. The brothers are enjoying the horse Jimmy Rein Bie lleeal ltr Rien aioli NY li dB ra t ear nominations from the floor, & hours. Prof. Fulcher and Elie Ganier journeyed to shoe court which has been placed in the rear of the ter heotase Purner. MMS Hilly and ent Chis material be placed future pa He Il speak t officers will be installed at the next meeting and will conduct several meetings this year under the supervision of the old officers. If any course lacks at least six students, this course may be withdrawn and the students assigned another course. Additional courses will be given if there is sufficient demand. The meeting was composed almost entirely of business discussion and the elections. The Social Committee reported a tentative plan for a hay ride with the Queens-Chi college literary society. Also, it was decided to revive the old custom of giving society diplomas to the seniors. All seniors will receive them this year, but in the future they will be awarded only through a point system. The fees for the summer are as follows: Tuition $30.00, Room $12.50, Laundry $4.50, Laboratory $5.00-$12.00. Public school teachers are allowed a discount of ten dollars on the tuition fee. Board can be secured in the village during the summer at about $25.00 per month. Inquiries regarding the summer session should be addressed to Prof. F. K. Fleagle, Director, Summer Session, Davidson, N.C.

Introducing his subject, the speaker brought to light a foresight as to where the men here today will be and what will be their worth in the world. Within three years every man here will have gone out into life to find his way and make a name for himself. The question was brought to light as to whether men would point to these individuals as blotches on the records of Davidson or whether they will have contributed to the college and will be looked up to as leaders in the world. Then too after death will they remember you as a failure or will they say otherwise. He stressed the fact that there is a great need for ministers and there will always be an opportunity for a minister to take his place in the world so long as there is suffering, disease, and squalor here.

As a result of the ROTC rifle matches just completed, marksmanship medals will be awarded at the final parade, which is scheduled for May 10th. Major Ballard announced that the first high gold medal will be given to Robert H. Theiling, and the high upperclassman medal to Springs Pharr, who is also captain of the rifle team. The high freshman medal will go to W. J. Bolin. Walter Kunz will receive a silver medal and J. H. Woodward the bronze award in the upperclass group. In the freshman class, the (Continued on Page Six)

CITY CAFE & DINING ROOM
“WHERE FRIENDS MEET TO EAT”
SPENSER BROS.
MOORESVILLE, N.C.
For Frat. Parties - Capacity 90 People

BUFF SHOE SHOP
Davidson, N.C.

BELK’S
Mooresville, N.C.