Page Six THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, OCT. 26, 1938

Weekly Schedule

Wednesday, Oct. 26
7:15 P.M., Fall Services.
8:00 Alpha Epsilon Delta.
9:00 Y. M. C. A. Cabinet.

Thursday, Oct. 27
7:15 P.M., Fall Services.
7:15 Social Fraternities.
8:00 Quadwranglers Club.
8:00 Beaver Club Meeting.

Friday, Oct. 28
8:00 P.M. Alpha Phi Epsilon.
8:00 Gamma Sigma Epsilon.

Saturday, Oct. 29
Football game at Furman.

Sunday, Oct. 30
10:15 A.M. Sunday School.
11:15 Church.
6:30 P.M. Vespers.

Monday, Oct. 31
7:00 P.M. Sigma Pi Sigma.
8:00 Phi Beta Kappa.
8:00 Sigma Delta Pi.
9:00 Omicron Delta Kappa.
9:30 Davidson College Radio Program, Station WBT.

Wednesday, Nov. 2
7:15 P.M. Scabbard and Blade.
8:00 Alpha Psi Omega and Red and Black Masquers.
9:00 Y. M. C. A. Cabinet.

First Dances Make Big Hit
Homecoming Prom Is Moved Up This Year

Davidson students may have settled back down to their books but there is little doubt that their minds still hold
lovely thoughts flitting thither and yon concerning the elegant Homecoming dances. Unusual as it may be that Homecoming and the
Homecoming dances are held at different times this year, enthusiasm ran none the less high for this set of shuffles.

With Friday night scheduled for the formal, Saturday the great game—especially the first quarter!—and Saturday night the informal, Davidson will
seem to have had what may be called two Homecomings, after the regularly scheduled Homecoming November 12th is over. On
this date the Wildcats face V.M.I. on the gridiron.

Dick Jones and his Collegians were the melody-makers for the weekend and although they were regular “jitterbugs” and songstress, apparently
were well pleased with Dick and the boys. This band has been on the road just a few months—most of
the group having just graduated from the University of Tennessee where the band was organized. They really are a rising
group; they have already played on the choice spots on this tour of one-nighters which they are now making. According
to some of the boys they think it best to hit only the one-night stands for a while and the
name they get will be compensation for the tiring job they have. From this stand they head for Kentucky cities
and already they have melodied at “Tantilla Gardens” in Richmond and Dayton, Ohio’s “Merry-Go-Round Club.”

Although the dances missed the lady spectator, one could easily have seen the prevalence of beautiful belles on the dance
floor, and really beautiful, too! Furthermore, it seems that many were products of far-away sections of the country, some having
come from almost a thousand miles away. The modern word “snake,” used for the men who late-date their friend’s girl,
was used frequently and as rumor will have it, quite correctly over the weekend. The general consensus of campus opinion
has it that the freshmen especially were to be pitied.

Mention should be made of the no-break dances of which there were four each night. These were the real breaks
for the tireless working snakes and mention could be made of “moonface” snakes, an unusual thing in the general world
but not uncommon on a Davidson dance weekend.

PI GAMMA MU

The Gamma chapter, which was established at Davidson last year, stands toward its official inauguration and the installation of its
officers on November 4. The chapter plans to make a real event of the occasion and will have several prominent
men outside of Davidson as speakers on the program. Besides sociology and psychology, social science includes economics, religion, history, law,
political science, and philosophy; not a small number of men will be eligible for Pi Gamma Mu. The fraternity hopes
to make its meetings not only a place for national social and political discussion but also a forum for the
discussion of problems on the campus, such as relations between students and faculty, relations between the college and the town,
and social and economic questions that arise in everyday life.

Davidson Students To Lead Cornelius Scouts
Twenty Colored Boys Attend First Meet Under Winn and McLauchlin

Albert Winn and Bill McLauchlin have succeeded in organizing a colored scout troop in Cornelius. They have held up to
date, two meetings. At the last meeting, there were twenty scouts in attendance. Dave McLean is in charge of all
colored scout activities. The troop has not yet started on any project as the first two meetings have been taken
up with organization and other business. As yet, the troop is not officially organized, but a charter for the troop
will be obtained in time.

Central Gives Spanish Show

A Spanish moving picture, “Jalisco Nunca Pierde,” will be shown on October 26 at Central High School in Charlotte. There
will be two showings, one at 3:30 o'clock and the other at 7:30 o'clock in the evening. The picture deals
with the life, dances, and songs of Mexico and has been brought to Charlotte by Miss Delano, of Queens-Chicora and
Central High School. All who have seen this picture say that it is excellent, and all Spanish students are urged
to attend.| Davidson are invited to attend consisting of Bob Brandon, Bob Ramsey, Sid Crane, and Munroe Bush, was sent
to the Bethesda Presbyterian Church last Sunday evening. A young people’s meeting was held and special music was provided by
the Mitchell College girls. Every year science enables us to get there quicker. I wish they'd figure out something to
do when you get there.

PHI GAMS [Continued from Page Four] of 18-0. Scoring touchdowns were Marquess, Boyd, and Williams. In the feature game of
the week, the Phi Gams beat the Pikas Monday in a game that was hard-fought. The final score was 6-0.
The score was made on a long pass from George Jones to Ralph Stair.

FRESHMEN TO [Continued from Page Four] fore a powerful Duke freshman team, 34-6. Last Friday they beat the “Bees” 13-6
on Richardson field. P. J. C.’s record is unknown, but they are led by Johnny Miller, former Mooresville high star
back.

QUARTET HERE (Continued from Page Three) known to an interesting and varied program which is also beneficial and helpful in
every way. This type of program was chosen because it was thought that a change from the usual order of
service would be of interest to the students.

Most men work about one-quarter as hard as they say they do, and about one-half as hard as they think
they do.

COMPLETION OF LAYOUT [Continued from Page Three] closed until the appearance of the yearbook. The photographers will return to the
campus in November to take the remainder of the individual pictures. Proofs of the pictures made last week will be
available the last of this week or the first of next week. A large percentage of the student body was
photographed last week when a representative of Dunbar and Daniel set up equipment in the parlor of Watts. The solicitation
of advertising will begin in the near future, it was learned.

COLLEGE AGAIN [Continued from Page Three] famous “Rambling Wreck,” by Roman; the University of Minnesota’s “Rouser,” by Hutsell; “Across the
Field” Ohio State’s football song by Dougherty; the University of Michigan’s “The Victors,” by Elbel; and “College Ties” completed the
program. Last night’s presentation was the fourth program in a series of weekly broadcasts started October 5. Kellogg substituted Rut
Miller in giving WBT listeners news of the Davidson campus. Weekly broadcasts are scheduled to continue throughout the fall.

ALLISON LEADS (Continued from Page Three] purpose of taking individual pictures of the students for this year’s Quips and Cranks,
used his own camera and equipment in his explanations. The subject discussed was portraiture, its lighting, and background. Mr. Dunbar
gave many hints which will be helpful to boys starting the study of portrait photography. Although no meeting will be
held this week because of the Fall Services, President Rufus Allison has announced that there will be a contest between
the members of the club. The best photograph of the Chambers building submitted before Wednesday night will be chosen.

FROSH LICK [Continued from Page Four] attack had brought them the length of the field. For the freshmen, Hackney and
Yoder were outstanding both on offense and defense in the backfield, while Captain Marsh was defensively strong in the line.
In the Bees’ backfield, J. Bolin, Hunter, and McLeskey stood out behind the hard-charging King and Moore in the line.

CURRIE CHOOSES (Continued from Page Three) youth, but his principles were based on the rights and privileges of the American
people, to the exclusion of their duties and obligations. Again the leaders of the country stood “with their backs to
the temple of the Lord,” and this time the Civil War followed. With the close of the Civil War, the
idea of educating the masses came to the front, and the teacher became the leader in America. His doctrines, however,
were based on the scientific principles prevalent in Germany. They regarded the Bible stories as mere allegories and looked only
for scientific explanations of creation. These men tried to establish peace on earth by force, not by love. Again the
leaders stood “with their backs toward the temple of the Lord,” and the World War followed. Today, the businessman is
the leader of the American people. What the effect of his leadership will be, no one knows. He will, however,
have to modify his principle of “profit at any cost” if this land is to see salvation. In closing, Prof.
Currie warned, “He who leads in this world created by the divine God must stand with his face toward the
temple of the Lord.”

STUDENT BODY [Continued from Page Three] ual personality which distinguishes him from every man, and with this, he can do
great things; however, our individual personalities are of no use without a Christian personality which we should try to develop
as much as possible. Finally, Bishop Pfohl concluded with this thought: “To take what we have and are, to dedicate
it to Him and His Service on behalf of our fellowmen, and to use it all in His service—that is
the supreme purpose.”

How to Ease COLD CHEST FIRST—massage throat, chest, and back with Vicks VapoRub at bedtime. This relieves the distress. THEN—to
make its long-continued action last even longer, spread a thick layer of VapoRub on the chest and cover with a
warmed cloth. LONG AFTER sleep comes, VapoRub keeps working—loosens phlegm—eases muscular soreness or tightness—clears air-passages—eases coughing—relieves local congestion. Often, by
morning the worst of the cold is over.

Wed. Oct. 26 MYSTERIOUS RIDER Thurs.-Fri. Oct. 27-28 MARIE ANTOINETTE

The man who aims at the possession of diamonds seldom appreciates the sparkle of the morning sun in a drop
of dew.

Oct. 29 Double Feature PANAMINT’S BAD MAN SECRETS OF AN ACTRESS

Drink a Quart of Milk a Day Drink Pasteurized Milk, It’s Safe MOORESVILLE CREAMERY

Mon. Oct. 31 Tues. Nov. 1 FOUR DAUGHTERS

STATE THEATRE Mooresville, North Carolina

TAKE YOUR MEALS at the... AMERICAN CAFE Special Monthly Rates Meal Tickets Worth $5.50 For $5.00

SOUTHERN 5 & 10c STORE Davidson, N. C.

CARS FOR RENT LIGHTING FIXTURES ELECTRICAL APPLIANCES GROCERIES The Way to Travel M. P. Henderson Davidson, N. C. —GULF GAS
& OIL— M. H. GOODRUM & CO. Davidson, N. C.

PAUL WHITEMAN Every Wednesday Evening GEORGE BURNS GRACIE ALLEN Every Friday Evening All C. B. S. Stations EDDIE DOOLEY Football
Highlights Every Thursday and Saturday 52 Leading N. B. C. Stations

Copyright 1938, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.

You’ll find smokers everywhere keeping Chesterfields with them all day long. They add to your pleasure when you’re on the
job and when you take a night off. It takes good things to make a good product. That’s why we
use the best ingredients a cigarette can have—mild ripe tobaccos and pure cigarette paper—to make Chesterfield the cigarette that smokers
say is milder and better-tasting. ..with MORE PLEASURE for millions
