Redhead Leads “Y” Fall Services

Z528 ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

The Davidsonian

Rhodes Competition Thirteen Enter

VOL. XXVI DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 26, 1938 No. 6

Davidson Is Represented By Thirteen Applicants For Rhodes Scholarship

Thirteen To Go Before Seven-State Committees

8 SENIORS, 5 ALUMNI Seven Go To North Carolina Committee

Thirteen Davidson students and alumni will enter the Rhodes Scholarship competition in seven southern states on December 13 and 14. Those who have been passed by the local board are Wade Boggs, '37; Jack Branch, '37; Cage Brewer, '39; M. E. Morrow, '39; W. A. Page, '39; D. H. Reisner, '39; Fred Stair, '39; Watson Street, '38; R. A. Torrey, III, '37; Webb, '39; Locke White, '39; Rodman Williams, '39; and Richard Vowles, '38. These will appear before the boards of examiners in their respective states for interviews. At that time representatives from all recognized colleges and universities in these states will also be interviewed. Two will be selected in each state to go before district examiners. Each of these district boards, interviewing the twelve representatives of six neighboring states, will select four men for the Rhodes awards. These scholarships to Oxford University are worth two thousand dollars per year for two years, provided the student makes a good scholastic record, and may be extended for a third year.

Of the thirteen Davidson representatives in the competition this year, seven will appear before the North Carolina examining board; two will go to the Georgia committee, and one will go to each of the following state boards: Florida, Kentucky, Mississippi, and Tennessee. However, any of these who are passed by the state boards, except those in Kentucky and Mississippi, will have to appear before the third District committee. Six of this group are members of O. D. K. and nine have won Phi Beta Kappa recognition. Five of them are the highest ranking seniors this year while two are former valedictorians here. Nine of the Davidson representatives are members of social fraternities.

Since the first American students went to Oxford on Rhodes Scholarships in 1904, seven Davidson graduates have been selected. At present Carleton Chapman, '36, is entering his third year at the English university. He has already earned a degree in physiology with honors and is now working on a degree in research.

Masquers To Begin Season

Dramatic Organization Will Present Three One-Act Plays on Nov. 3

At eight o'clock Thursday, November 3, the Red and Black Masquers will open their dramatic season by presenting three one-act plays in the auditorium of Chambers. Ed. Morrow, President of the Club, announces that the feminine roles will be taken by Miss Susie Jackson, Miss Kalista Hood, and Miss Virginia Hengeveld. Leading male roles will be played by Dave Colvin, Appie Means, and Dick Hudson.

The plays to be given are “Where the Cross is Made,” by O'Neil, “The Man in the Bowler Hat,” a comedy by A. A. Milne, and “The Valiant,” by Hall and Middlemack. The cast of the first is: Nat, Appie Means; Bartlett, Bob Powell; The Doctor, Shaw Smith. The cast of “The Man in the Bowler Hat” includes: The hero, D. C. Colvin; The Villain, Dick Cobb; The Bad Man, Jim Currie; The Man in the Bowler Hat, Warren Gaw; The Heroine, Virginia Hengeveld; Mary, Kalista Hood; John, her brother, Tom McLean. The cast of “The Valiant” includes: Father Daly, Monroe Bush; [Continued on Page Five]

Fall Services Conducted By John Redhead

Charlotte Minister Will Hold Private Discussions With Students

Dr. John Redhead opened the fall services of the Y. M. C. A. here yesterday morning with an address during the chapel hour. Dr. Redhead has been speaking twice daily since then, at chapel and each night at 7:15 and will make his concluding talk tomorrow night. In addition to his sermons, he has also been having private discussions with any students who have arranged for one through the Y. Boys who have not yet asked for a conference are requested to do so at once, for there is always a rush at the last minute.

Sherrard Rice, president of the Y. M. C. A., was in charge of Tuesday morning's service. Sid Crane led the meeting Tuesday night, and Dave McLean was in charge this morning. Dave Sprunt will preside during tonight’s service. Special music will be presented each night.

This is the second set of services that Dr. Redhead has conducted here, since he was the speaker for the spring devotionals in 1935. He was also a guest minister at one of the Sunday Vespers last spring. Dr. Redhead is pastor of the Second Presbyterian Church, Charlotte. He is especially noted for his work with the young people both there and in Tampa, Florida, where he held a pastorate before coming to Charlotte.

Born in Mississippi, Dr. Redhead was educated at Southwestern University, where he made letters in both football and basketball. After graduating in 1926, he continued his ministerial training at Union Theological Seminary in Richmond. In 1930 he was awarded the Hodge Fellowship for that year.

Faculty Club Will Convene

Williamson Addresses Quadwranglers Thursday

According to a statement by Dr. Goldiere, the Quadwranglers’ Club will hold its next regular meeting at eight o’clock, right after the Y. M. C. A. service, Thursday night, in the Quadwranglers’ room. Dr. Cumming, program chairman of the committee, stated that Professor Rene de Visme Williamson of the Department of Economics will address the group.

Alumni Dance Follows Davidson-Furman Game

Hour Arranged in Hopes That Large Numbers of Students Will Attend

Under the approval and with the cooperation of the Greenville Alumni Association, the Greenville Alumni Club is giving a dance next Saturday afternoon, after the Davidson-Furman game. Invitations are extended to both teams to be the guests of the club; though the dance is for the benefit of all students of Davidson and Furman. It is hoped that the Davidson team can stay over long enough to join the Furman team at the dance. The hours will be from five to half past seven, in the hope that larger numbers of the Davidson students will be able to attend.

Ten Sponsors

Ten girls have been chosen as sponsors for the game and dance, five for Davidson and five for Furman. The Davidson sponsors will be the Misses Lila Dupre, McBee of Converse College, and Genevieve Mills, Caroline Wellister and Mary Frances Smith of Greenville. During the game the sponsors will sit on the field, and after its conclusion will be escorted to the dance by Davidson and Furman students.

Brilliant Decorations

If possible, the Poinsette room will be decorated in Davidson's Red and Black and Furman’s Purple and White. Midway in the dance a grand march will be led by the sponsors of the winning team. Many prominent Davidson and Furman alumni residing at Greenville have been asked to chaperone at the dance, along with Davidson faculty members and their wives.

President

Presiding at the annual fall tapping ceremonies of Omicron Delta Kappa on Monday morning was Warren Gaw, who was elected president of the local circle last spring.

Little Symphony Will Give Program Monday

Mozart’s Opera To Be Given By Salem College Choristers

The Davidson College Little Symphony Orchestra will present a concert next Monday night in Chambers Auditorium under the direction of James Christian Pfohl. The second part of the program will be composed of Mozart's comic opera, “Bastien et Bastienne.” It will be the Salem College Choral Ensemble, under the direction of Mr. Clifford Bair, instructor of voice at Salem College and director of the Choral Ensemble.

Experienced Leader

Mr. Bair had a great deal of experience in the operatic field, being especially interested in presenting Mozart operas. He has spent some time in Salzburg, the mecca of the Mozart world. This one-act opera was given in Asheville this past summer as the feature performance of the Mozart Festival there. The cast of the opera, the same one that presented the opera in Asheville, is as follows: Bastienne, a shepherdess, Harriett Taylor; Bastien, her lover, Kathryn Swain; Colas, Bogus Magician, Ted Withers. Jodenheimer, Anne Bair will be at the piano.

Varied Program

The Little Symphony will present a varied program duringThe program: Cosi Fan Tutte, Mozart; Prelude, Jarnefelt; Le Coucou, Daquin; Beauty Waltzes, Arensky; Sleeping Beauty Waltzes, Tschaikovsky. The following selections will be presented by the orchestra in the first half of the concert: Overture, Mozart; Prelude, Jarnefelt; Le Coucou, Daquin; Beauty Waltzes, Arensky; Sleeping Beauty Waltzes, Tschaikovsky. Students will be admitted free to this concert, while others will be charged a small fee. This is part of the winter concert series, and those who have a season ticket will not be charged.

Actors Will Present Shakespeare’s Play

On Wednesday night, November 9, the Avon Players, a stock company of Shakespearian actors, will present one of Shakespeare’s most humorous works, “The Taming of the Shrew,” in the Chamber's Building. The leader of the company, Joseph Selman, says that this year the company is better organized and has better scenery and costumes than ever before; therefore, a good performance may be expected by all who attend. The Avon Players have been coming to Davidson for the past two years, and they have always presented an interesting program. However, in former years their Shakespearian selections were tragedies, while this year they present the most hilarious farce that Shakespeare wrote, “The Taming of the Shrew.” The company plays up particularly the comic side of the work; for they have much horseplay and humor throughout the selection.

Seven Men Receive Bids To Omicron Delta Kappa

Lacy, Edward, and McSween Speak Nov. 12

Davidson Alumni Will Hold Banquet After V.M.I. Homecoming Game

Three noted Davidson speakers will address the Homecoming banquet of Davidson's alumni in Chambers banquet hall, November 12. Fred Smith, alumni secretary, has announced that plans are rapidly being perfected for the celebration next month. He is expecting a large number of old students to gather in the banquet hall at 12:30 Saturday for the luncheon. In the afternoon they will attend the Davidson-V.M.I. game on Richardson Field. Dr. Chester, general president of the association, will preside over the banquet this year and will also make a talk. John S. McSween of Richmond, president this year, is another speaker. The third well-known speaker is Dr. Ben Lacy, president of Richmond Theological Seminary. Wilbur Edwards, who graduated from Davidson in 1937 and is now connected with station WBT in Charlotte, will also speak. Each address will deal with some phase of Davidson life. A special bulletin will be mailed to the alumni this week to explain to them the plans for the weekend. The fraternities are making arrangements again this year to decorate the houses, and prizes will be presented to the best.

Committee to Hold Meeting

Executive Group to Assemble On Friday Before Homecoming

Davidson's executive committee will gather here Friday, November 11, for their regular fall meeting. The fifteen members of the board meet each year on the Friday preceding Homecoming weekend. The board is made up of the five committees appointed by the board of trustees. They govern finance, buildings and grounds, student health and physical education, religious and social life, and general education. The finance committee is composed of Dr. R. A. Dunn, president of the board; H. Smith Richardson, vice-president; S. A. Robinson, secretary; and F. L. Jackson, treasurer. Other members and their committees are: buildings and grounds: J. A. Cannon, H. W. McKay, and R. S. Arrowood. Education: Dr. R. A. Dunn, C. R. Wilcox, J. McD. Richards, and H. Smith Richardson. Student health [Continued on Page Five]

First Set of Grades Have Been Posted

The first grades of the year were published this morning. Upperclassmen can receive their grades in Mr. Hengeveld’s office, where they will be shown for two or three days on request. Freshmen are requested to visit their respective faculty counselors, where the grades will be discussed. Grades have already been sent home to the parents of the students. This set of grades represents the first six weeks’ work. The next set, the mid-semester grades, will be published about the last of November. During the second semester only the mid-semester and final reports are published.

Pi Gamma Mu Elects Heads For Semester

Archer Torrey, Dave Woodward, and Jack Abernathy Are Officers

The local chapter of Pi Gamma Mu, national honorary social science fraternity, held a meeting to choose officers after chapel Monday, October 24. Elected to serve until February were: R. Archer Torrey, president; Dave Woodward, vice president; Jack Abernathy, secretary and treasurer. Next February, junior officers will be elected to serve until February 1940, and terms of a year will be filled out thenceforth. On Monday, the following committees were also appointed: Scholastic Committee: Bill Davis (chairman), Dr. R. deV. Williamson, Dr. P. H. Gwynn, Archer Torrey (ex officio); Publicity Committee: Ellard Yow (chairman), Jerry Doster, Jack Abernathy (ex officio); Program Committee: Frank Simmons (chairman), Dr. Williamson, Warren Gaw (ex officio); Ceremonies and Installations Committee: John Hulen (chairman), Dr. Gwynn, Dave Woodward (ex officio). Committees already appointed were the Constitution Committee (Dave Woodward) and the Objectives Committee (Ivan Wetmore). On Friday evening at seven, the second regular meeting of the year was held in Chambers. Since regular officers had not been elected, Ellard Yow officiated as temporary president, Archer Torrey as vice president, and C. Hulten as secretary and treasurer, respectively. Business brought up included: (1) Program suggestions for the year; (2) Discussion of the organization [Continued on Page Six]

Gamma Sigma Epsilon To Hold Initiation For Ten Students

The Alpha Alpha Chapter of the Gamma Sigma Epsilon Chemistry Fraternity will initiate ten new members Friday night, October 28. Those who will be taken in are: Rufus Allison, Bill Abbott, Bob Doty, Tom Guion, Tom Hamsberger, Tom Mullen, Vance Myers, R. G. Rosser, and Warren Gaw. Dr. B. Knight has been elected an honorary member, pending the approval of the national council. Gamma Sigma Epsilon Chemistry Fraternity was founded at Davidson in 1919. Professor O. J. Thies, head of the Davidson Chemistry Department, is at present the Worthy Grand Alchemist of the National Fraternity. The National Fraternity is composed of thirteen chapters—Alpha Alpha of Davidson College; Alpha Beta of North Carolina State; Beta Alpha of the University of Florida; Delta Beta of the University of Alabama; Alpha Gamma of Wake Forest; Zeta Alpha of Georgetown; Beta Beta of John B. Stetson; Theta [Continued on Page Five]

Omicron Delta Kappa Holds Annual Tap Day

Hemphill, Brewer, Calvin, Squires, Walker, and Warden Are Tapped

Gaw Presides; Beatty Talks on History and Aims of O.D.K.

Fall Tap Day Ceremonies of Omicron Delta Kappa were held during the Monday morning chapel period. The devotional was led by Prof. F. K. Fleagle, a member of O.D.K. Then the program was turned over to Warren Gaw, president of the local circle. Gaw introduced Professor E. A. Beaty, who gave a short talk on the history and aims of the organization. After which the tapping of new members took place. At the sound of the gavel, a member went among the students and tapped the prospective member who followed him to the platform. The following men were tapped: Tom Abbott, Charlotte; Beta Pi Social Fraternity; Court of Control; Sigma Delta Psi; President Beaver Club; Vice-president “D” Club; track team; Dean's List, Vice-president Junior Class; and Commerce Club. Cage Brewer, Clarksdale, Mississippi; Phi Gamma Delta Social Fraternity; Phi Beta Kappa; Editor Quips and Cranks; Manager Varsity Football; and I. R. C. Joe Calvin, Decatur, Alabama: Alpha Phi Epsilon; President of Kappa Alpha Social Fraternity; President Forensic Council; I. R. C. and Honorary Fraternity Council. Sam Hemphill, Marion: Treasurer of Pi Kappa Phi Social Fraternity; Captain Adjutant R.O.T.C.; Manager Student Store, “D” Club; Varsity Baseball; Phi Beta Kappa; Scabbard and Blade; Commerce Club; I. R.C.; Vice-president Senior Class; Assistant Manager of Davidsonian; Assistant Manager Quips and Cranks. Julian Squires, Charlotte: Beta Theta Pi Social Fraternity; Judge of Court of Control; Dean's List; Commerce Club; and Football Band. Joe Walker, Charlotte: Sigma Alpha Epsilon Social Fraternity; Editor of Wildcat Handbook; Captain Track Team; Y Cabinet; Y Board of Control; President of Eumenean Literary Society; Honorary Fraternity Council; Dean's List; Sigma Pi Sigma; Sigma Delta Psi; Assistant Editor Quips and Cranks, Vice-president Athletic Council; and Decathlon Award. Dave Warden, Johnson City, Tenn.: Beta Theta Pi Social Fraternity; Captain Football team; track; “D” Club; Dean’s List; Athletic Council; and Vice president Athletic Association. The tapping of these six men brings the total of student members to thirteen. There are six members who were tapped last spring. These are Fred Stair, Bob McClellan, Sherrard Rice, Sam Newell, Bill Marquess, and Warren Gaw. These men were on the platform and also faculty members of the circle. There are four active faculty members. They are Mr. F. L. Jackson, National President of Omicron Delta Kappa, Prof. F.K. Fleagle, Dr. K. J. Foreman, and Dr. G. R. Vowles. The initiation of the new men will take place in the near future. The exact date will be announced by President Gaw as soon as it has been decided.

Dignity is a narrow, unstable bearing which mental spindle-shanks try to stand upon when they have no other support. It takes years for a mother to make a man out of her son, and twenty minutes for another woman to make a fool out of him.