After Holiday Newspaper Election

Ss Z528 ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA Che Davidsontan LIBERTAS

Council to Consider Points System

VOL. XXV DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., WEDNESDAY, MAR. 23, 1938 NO. 27

Council To Consider Point System Plans Within Near Future

Student Council May Present Plan to Student Body For Approval

Plans for the much-discussed and long-awaited point system will be presented to the student council, and ultimately to the student body if it passes the governing group, in the near future, it was learned from an authoritative source this week. The plan to be considered is now undergoing careful study and work and has, as its purpose, the limitation of the number of offices a student can hold. It is felt that the new system will to a great extent remedy the situation now prevalent on the Davidson campus — the fact that a small group of men shoulder almost the entire burden of responsibility and work in extra-curricular activities.

Restrict Honors

For instance, under a point system, if a student attained one of the highest positions among student affairs, such as president of the student body or president of the Y. M. C. A., he would be eligible for few, if any more, honors and offices. This would thereby enable the campus leader to devote all of his time to the activity in which he is most interested.

Rated By Points

Each of the extra-curricular activities on campus would be rated in a certain number of points according to its importance, and a limit placed on the number of points each student could hold during one year. Besides taking a great burden from the shoulders of the man flooded with offices, this would also spread out the honors and allow more men to participate in affairs outside of their academic pursuits. Such point systems have been put in and are being used with great success at other schools.

Debate Teams Clash Tonight

Rice and White Debate College of Charleston

The College of Charleston’s debating team will be met here tonight in Philanthropic Hall at 8 o'clock by Sherrard Rice and Locke White, and Bill Kiesewetter and Dick Kenyon will debate for Davidson in New York City to begin their tour of the Middle Atlantic States. Davidson will take the negative side of the national labor question, Resolved: That the National Labor Relations Board should be empowered to enforce arbitration of all industrial disputes, against the team from South Carolina. The debate will be non-decision.

In New York tonight, Kiesewetter and Kenyon will defend the negative side of the labor question. On March 31, immediately after the debate, they will argue that the United States should hold to its present policy of neutrality, against a team from Rutgers University of New Brunswick, N. J. The debate will be broadcast over radio station WNEW at 9:30. The northern team’s second appearance will be at Westminster College in New Wilmington, Pa., on March 25. Here they will take the affirmative side of the question, Resolved: That the United States should join in a world federation of nations.

Smith Back At Desk

Reports from Charlotte are that Conrad Frederick Smith, Davidson’s genial and popular Alumni Secretary, is getting along nicely and will probably be back at his desk here the latter part of this week. While kicking a football some days ago, Mr. Smith strained a muscle in the lower part of his back and this necessitated a minor operation for the purpose of relieving pressure on one of the larger nerves. However, he is responding favorably to treatment and will not have to remain in the hospital many more days.

Hudson’s Band To Swing For Davidson Men

Novelties Will Feature Clubmen’s Program For Spring Dances

The student body will really be able to get that spring feeling into their bones after the spring holidays when Dean Hudson and his Florida Clubmen furnish the swing for the annual spring dance set to be held on April 8-9. The dances will consist of four rather than the regular three and will be held in the Charlotte Armory. There will be a tea dance on Friday afternoon and a formal on Friday night, another tea dance Saturday afternoon and an informal Saturday night.

Capable Artists

Every member of Hudson and his Clubmen is capable of putting on some number, musical or otherwise, and ranks supreme. Their novelties, comedy numbers, serious presentations, impersonations, parodies, and smooth flow of rhythm all have a professional polish and are of a high type. The Clubmen have been a favorite the past several seasons with southern society and southern debutante balls. Tommy Dorsey, famed trombonist and orchestra leader, termed them as “the best college orchestra I have heard on my tour of 24 larger colleges.” Ernest Rogers, radio critic of the Atlanta Journal, said of them, “One of the finest young bands in the South.”

Vocalist

Many interesting features are presented by the band. Miss Fran Colwell, vocalist with the orchestra, will be featured. Her rich contralto voice will swing out on torrid swing tunes and the easy lyrics of smooth sweet songs. Male vocals will be handled by Bud Brown and Sam Latimer. A vocal trio of two boys and a girl will swing out some of the rhythm favorites while Harold Willis will offer novelty songs in an inimitable style.

Colin To Give Wonder Show

Magician to Give First Campus Show April 12

Colin, the Magician, will present his “Show of Wonders” in Chambers Auditorium, Tuesday, April 12, at eight o'clock. This program will consist of magic and sleight-of-hand tricks which will prove that the hand is quicker than the eye. There will also be in his program something much quicker than his hand: a bullet. Colin and his assistant, Bob Balsley, were getting along fine until he wanted to add a new trick to his repertoire. In this new trick, Colin shoots a bullet with a ribbon tied to it through an ordinary playing card and his assistant into a target, and then, to show the audience that it really isn’t faked, he moves the ribbon back and forth through the body of his assistant and the card. Just as simple as that; no fuss, no muss.

Much interest and mystery surrounds Geraldine, the star performer, who will make his, her, or its first appearance before the Davidson student body. Colin refused to comment on Geraldine’s part in the program, what she or it looked like, or any of her past history. He did say that Geraldine was his constant companion. Colin has been playing for quite a few schools, clubs, and parties lately in the surrounding territory. He was recently elected to the International Brotherhood of Magicians.

C. M. Mashburn Is Chosen As Second Vice-President

Bob Balsley Wins in Race For Secretary-Treasurer By Small Margin

Charles Mashburn, sophomore from Atlanta, Ga., was elected second vice president, and Bob Balsley of Reidsville, N. C., secretary-treasurer of the Davidson student body in the final vote cast last week. Mashburn, who polled a total of 199 votes, defeated George Richmond, of Concord, by 68 votes, while Balsley led Ed Watson in the final count by a small majority.

The newly-elected vice president is a member of Phi Delta Theta social fraternity and played second base on the freshman baseball team last year. He is also a leading contender for one of the managerial berths on the football team. The final race between Mashburn and Richmond was held Thursday. Balsley, of Beta Theta Pi fraternity, was also a freshman football and basketball player. He is a member of the Student Volunteer general committee.

Spaniard Will Make Lecture

Dr. Juan Zamora to Speak on “Latin America”

Dr. Juan Clemente Zamora will be heard here as a guest speaker of the college on April 14. He will make two lectures during his stay in Davidson. While he is here, Dr. Zamora will speak once in English on “A New Interpretation of the History of Latin America” and once in Spanish on “Cuba y los Cubanos” which will be a lecture illustrated with films.

Dr. Juan Zamora is a graduate of Universidad de la Habana. He is a Professor of Political Science at Harvard and also at Universidad de la Habana, a member of the National Academy of Political Science (Cuba), and of the Pan-American Institute of Public Law (Argentine). The local Spanish fraternity, Sigma Delta Pi, is planning some form of entertainment for the distinguished guest during his stay in Davidson.

Philharmonic Orchestra To Play In April

George H. Schapiro to Conduct Little Philharmonic Orchestra

Mr. George H. Schapiro, symphonic and operatic conductor of international fame, and his Little Philharmonic Orchestra, will appear in Chambers Auditorium on April 6. Mr. Schapiro has been enthusiastically received wherever he has performed. The delightful experience of hearing the great symphonic works inspiringly performed by this unique combination under the distinguished leadership of Mr. Schapiro is one not to be missed.

Mr. Schapiro’s musical studies were carried on under the direction of such masters as Arthur Nikisch, Hans Richter, and other famous orchestral conductors. As a composer, Mr. Schapiro has more than four hundred songs, two comic operas, three ballets, numerous orchestral works, and hundreds of orchestrations to his credit. His works have been produced on the operatic, orchestral, and radio stages of Europe and America.

Schapiro an Athlete

Schapiro is also an excellent athlete and mechanic. During a journey in London, he proved himselfPage Eight) Rice and Editor in Chief Crane Selected Heads of Davidson YMCA: Newspaper Election Next To Be Chosen Newell Loses In Close Vote

President Has Had Bell, Calvin, Coghill, Marquess, Deputations During Past Year

J. Sherrard Rice, of Richmond, Va., was elected president of the Y. M.C. A. for next year on the third ballot taken Monday, defeating Sam Newell, of Atlanta, Ga. Sid Crane was chosen as first vice president of the “Y” on the second ballot taken Saturday morning and the second vice president is to be selected from a field of three.

Sherrard Rice, who has been elected President of the Davidson College Y. M. C. A. for 1938-39, is the second consecutive Richmond boy to hold that office. He succeeds Heywood Hill, also from the southern capital city.

Six rising seniors will be eligible for election to the post of Editor-in-Chief of the Davidsonian, when this election takes place immediately after the holidays. They are Ovid Bell, Joe Calvin, Wesley Coghill, Terrell Porter, and Perry Sloan, managing editors, and Bill Marquess, sports editor.

Bell, a member of Phi Delta Theta social fraternity, is a member of Delta Phi Alpha, honorary German fraternity, and is a junior track manager. Calvin is an alternate on the varsity debating team and a member of the International Relations Club. He belongs to Kappa Alpha social fraternity. Coghill is a member of Sigma Phi Epsilon social fraternity. He belongs to Gamma Sigma Epsilon, honorary chemistry fraternity, and is a collection manager on the business staff of the Davidsonian. Porter belongs to Le Cercle Francais, honorary French fraternity, and serves as circulation manager on the business staff of the Davidsonian. His social fraternity is Sigma Phi Epsilon. Sloan, a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity, is completing his second year as a member of the student council. He also belongs to the International Relations Club.

Sherrard Rice, a member of the rising senior class, is a non-fraternity man, and is one of the most important members of the "Y" Cabinet, having charge of the various deputations. He is a member of the debating team, and also debate manager, and a member of Alpha Phi Epsilon, forensic fraternity.

Original Candidates

Those originally nominated by the “Y” Cabinet for the presidency were Warren Gaw, John Maw, Gregan, and Allen Walker, while Sam Newell, Herman Williams, and Locke White were named from the floor. The cabinet nominated Sid Crane, Gilmore, and Sprunt for the office of vice president, and Gray Hunter, Rufus Allison, Oscar Joyner, and Jim Thomas were added from the floor.

Non-Fraternity Man

Sherrard Rice, a member of the rising senior class, is a non-fraternity man, and is one of the most important members of the "Y" Cabinet, having charge of the various deputations. He is a member of the debating team, and also debate manager, and a member of Alpha Phi Epsilon, forensic fraternity.

Full Orchestra

The Little Philharmonic Orchestra is no “reduced” full orchestra, but in reality is a most carefully evolved musical organization capable of giving kaleidoscopic color to the great masterpieces. The personnel of the orchestra is varied and includes artists from Russia, Denmark, Norway, Holland, Austria, Czechoslovakia, Mexico, and the United States. The audience of The Little Philharmonic Orchestra can always look forward to the unusual.

Dr. Grubbs to Visit Campus

Dr. N. P. Grubb, for many years a missionary at the “Heart of Africa” mission, will speak to the Davidson student body at the vesper service Sunday, April 12. Dr. Grubb was a student at Cambridge University when called to enter the World War. He served for four years as an officer, was wounded, and was decorated for gallantry by the British government. After being made head of the mission in Africa on the death of its leader, C. T. Studd, he worked with such industry and activity that at the present time the work has grown from 35 missionaries to 130, and now covers 10 different fields, including South America, Arabia, Kashmir, and several parts of Africa. His work on the life of Mr. Studd has been universally acclaimed.

New York Man Secured For 1940 Lectures

A prominent New York man has been selected to deliver a series of lectures here during the 1939-1940 year as provided for by the Ott Lectureship foundation, which was established some years ago to bring speakers from time to time to Davidson to discuss various aspects of Christianity against current heresies.

Heads Singers

At the meeting of the Davidson College Glee Club Monday, March 21, the following officers were elected for the 1938-39 session: President, J. K. Wilson; Vice-President, Dick Kenyon; Secretary and Treasurer, Aeneid McDonald. The president was elected from the rising senior class, vice-president from the rising junior class, and the secretary-treasurer from the rising sophomore class. The retiring president is Ralph Chandler, vice-president, Bill Miller, and secretary-treasurer, Lee Ogburn.

Reports

The Quadranglers Club met on March 17 to hear the reports of Dr. C. K. Brown on their trip to several northern colleges in January as members of a committee to study tendencies and curricula in other institutions similar to Davidson. The officers as elected for the year were as follows: President, Dr. A. V. Goldiere; Vice President, Dr. P. Cumming; Secretary-Treasurer, Dr. Logan. The members of the executive committee will be Professors W. W. Wood and N. W. Shephard. Professors Wood and Brown visited Williams College and Amherst College in Massachusetts together. Professor Wood in addition visited Swarthmore and Dr. Brown visited Haverford. They found that while the underclass courses were less rigid in these colleges than at Davidson, the selection of upper-class courses was made more rigid by a greater degree of concentration in major fields. Professor Wood discussed the requirements in the mathematics departments, and Dr. Brown analyzed the tendencies in the social science divisions at the various colleges visited. The reports were followed by questions, discussion, and comment from faculty members.

Meeting Is Very Satisfactory

A meeting of potentially great significance to the Davidson student body was held last Thursday by the members of O. D. K., leadership fraternity, and influential members of the college faculty. Attention of the meeting, which included from the faculty the college president, the dean, and the head of the committee on fraternities, centered about means of attaining a better understanding between students and faculty on campus problems. Undergraduates attempted to familiarize the faculty with current student feeling on certain situations. Plans are to have rules and customs that student opinion has questioned presented to the entire student body with explanations of the faculty point of view. Student opinion, on the other hand, will be represented by a committee, announced Wade Bar.

Dean Hudson's versatile band, shown above, will be swinging for Spring Frolics in Charlotte soon after Spring Holidays. The well-known Southern band has a variety of musical novelties and special numbers up their sleeve. Miss Frances Colwell, pictured on next page, is the songstress for Hudson’s band.