Page Two

The Davidsonian
Founded By the Class of 1915

1937 Member 1938
Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest

Published Weekly "For a Better Davidson"
STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Printed By The Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 Madison Avenue, New York, N.Y.

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879.

EDITORIAL STAFF
Ovid Bell - Editor-in-Chief
Joe Terrell - Business Manager
Bill Yates - Assistant Editor
Sam Weslie - Managing Editor
Coghill Latimer - Managing Editor
Bill Miller - Managing Editor
Turner John - Managing Editor
Andy Terrell - Managing Editor
Sam Flemphill - Sports Editor
Wesley Coghill - Associate Editor
Porter Perry Sloan - Associate Editor
Marquess Owen Cooke - Associate Editor
Sam Cothran - Associate Editor
Euclid Fant - Associate Editor
McGeachy Ryburn - Associate Editor
Henry Baker - Movie Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
Wesley Coghill - Collection Manager
Joe Calvin - Advertising Manager
Ovid Bell - Asst. Advertising Manager
Terrell Porter - Circulation Manager
Ovid Bell - Circulation Manager
Assignments - Ovid Bell

"When a man is in earnest and knows what he is about, his work is half done." -- Mirabeau

Exams Beneficial?
The statement that examinations such as those at Davidson College are beneficial needs expansion. In all probability, the whole student reaction to the examination lies in his own individual psychology. The average student goes into an exam with the one intent of doing as well as possible, or, to be blunt about it, "shooting the prof." He wants to pass, fairly well, or make a Phi Beta grade, as his own potentialities may indicate.

The student absorbs a considerable quantity of assorted knowledge in the process of cramming, but it is his sole intent of doing well on the exam that causes exams to be such a "bug-bear." If the student were to study for an exam knowing all the time there would be no exam, he would do one of two things. He would either work conscientiously with a free and easy heart, or he would "ditch" the whole thing. To the latter class, these comments mean nothing and are not intended.

In other words, if the student can forget about the examination as a threat and keep it in the back of his mind only as a final deadline, he will accomplish something. He can take more interest in unifying a mass of undigested, unrelated facts, in an attempt to fortify himself with a concise united whole. The smattering of facts will never linger on in the forgetful human cranium, but, with some degree of unity, these same facts will. In other words, exams can give you, if you desire, a better and more comprehensive knowledge of your work, and knowledge that can be enjoyably obtained because of the ultimate aim. This attitude goes a lot further, in the long run, toward the student’s success on examination.

He is fully equipped both factually and mentally. He has not worried about "spotting" the professor, because by so doing he neglects some of his work to give more time to the professor’s various idiosyncrasies. His mind is clear. His head is full of fact, and he is ready for the exam.

Referees Are Human...
Many and awe-inspiring have been the athletic exhibitions staged beneath the rafters of the old tottering gym. But many and disgusting have been the exhibitions staged by that certain element of the student body that insists the referee, no matter who he is, has the mentality of an imbecile and the welfare of the opposing team overflowing in his heart.

At the last game, the first avalanche of hisses made us flush with shame and look around to see what out-of-town guests thought. They did. Then we scrutinized the object of dissension for a possible cause. Like the usual referee, he appeared to be an honest-looking fellow, intent upon his work, trying his best to keep his temper at the apparent injustice of the outburst. Final decision: The referee would not be in the business very long if he allowed his feelings to run away with him. Second, he knows a lot more about his work than the first man to criticize. He does his best, and he is human.

To you who hiss, boo, and "crack" at the referee: You are a "coward," because you take unfair advantage. You are a "boor," because you cannot use the language of a gentleman. You are "conceited," because you think you know more than the referee. You are a "fool," because you don’t.

Brain Polish...
A former Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of Maine, himself a graduate of a great university, once said: "In the case of a large institution, more boys go through the college; while in a small college, more college goes through the boys. The personal factor is the major element in every college education.

"To rub a brain with other brains," said a sage, "is the very best form of polish," and the quality of this polish will depend upon the quality of the individuals with whom a student comes in contact. The type of man (professor or fellow student) with whom he will associate is a prime consideration to every prospective student and his parents. -- The Colby Alumnus.

Sell Your Talent...
You may be a one-talent man, but a three-talent man, or a five-talent man, but if you do not blatantly proclaim the fact to your fellow students they may never know it, or even suspect it.

In times not so long past, Davidson students had an opportunity to display their talents in a stunt night, a highlight of student activity. Now no such opportunity exists. In most schools and colleges today this same idea is carried out in some form or other. The latest trend, an offspring of the Broadway musical comedy, is the college musical, through which a great deal of talent has been discovered.

Nothing as extravagant as these performances could ever be attempted at Davidson, but there is certainly enough dramatic and musical talent to merit something of the sort. With the backing of Red and Black Masquers and the dramatic fraternity, Alpha Psi Omega, the old "stunt nite" could certainly be revived and the student body given an opportunity to exercise its talents.

Senior Slants
"LITTLE MAN — WHAT NOW?"
It comes at least once in the life of every college man, usually at the beginning of his last semester. Suddenly the realization bursts upon him that the easy-going routine of eating, sleeping, studying, and playing is soon to be no more; that he'll have to punch a time-clock which doesn’t allow three cuts instead of catching that first period class; that his friendships, bound together in a community of similar interests, will soon be broken up; that, in brief, the old stage on which he has been saying his lines will be pulled down to make way for a new one with different scenery and a new role.

It is usually then that he begins to look backward over his college career and tries to evaluate his accomplishments. They may have been many, they may have been few. With apologies to Percy Marks, he may have been a "big frog in a little puddle" or a tadpole in the ocean. But regardless of his eminence on the campus, he still undergoes a shudder of stage fright which comes to every actor when he contemplates a new performance. Will the audience demand an after-curtain appearance, or will the show fold up?

It is then that the average college man realizes the mistakes he’s made, the things he should have done, the channels into which he should have directed his talents. It’s too late, and he turns a questioning glance on a future which still remains dark. What will it bring him? Time can only tell. But mixed with his dismay and uncertainty is a tempting desire to pull his younger fellow students to one side and say to them: "Work hard and play hard, but take advantage of every opportunity college life offers you, for it’s tough to realize it’s just about all over." -- PETE McKNIGHT.

From Campus to Campus (By Associated Collegiate Press)
The Shakespeare laboratory of the University of Utah announced last week it had authenticated a hitherto unknown signature of William Shakespeare. Six other signatures of the English dramatist exist. The seventh, subject of 9 months of research by Prof. Roland Lewis, is four inches long, on a piece of paper evidently cut off an old document. Professor Lewis declined to...

JANITOR M.A.
ONLY PUBLIC SCHOOL JANITOR IN THE U.S. TO EARN A GRADUATE DEGREE IS ADAM DENHAROT. NO ORDINARY JANITOR, MR. DENHAROT, 64, WAS A GERMAN TEACHER FOR 53 YEARS. HE WROTE HIS THESIS IN FRENCH AND RECEIVED HIS DEGREE AT THE UNIVERSITY OF DETROIT.

Letters to the Editor
(Letters over 200 words in length considered for publication must be signed, names withheld if desired).

SUNDAY SCHOOL ATTENDANCE INCREASES...
Dear Dick,
The month of January with its examinations is ordinarily filled with more work than usual for Davidson students. Yet the attendance at the Sunday morning Student Sunday School class has steadily increased, resulting in an average attendance of nearly 100 during the four Sundays of January. This splendid attendance is due chiefly to two reasons. One is the faithful and persistent effort on the part of Marion Bryant, president of the class, and the other is the series of enlightening talks given by Dr. Gwynn, who has been teaching for the past four Sundays. He has talked on the threats of Nazism, Fascism, and Communism to Christian liberty, concluding with a testimony of his own personal faith in Christ. The class has heard him with intense interest and great profit, and we are grateful to him for taking time from his strenuous duties to talk to us.

We are told that more talks that are timely and helpful will be given during the next semester. There are still great numbers of students who are failing to attend these services, and it is hoped that this article will help to impress upon them their loss in not attending. The effort will be made this semester to secure an attendance of 300, and I for one believe it can be done.
WADF H. BOGGS, JR.
Secretary, Y. M. C. A.

A PLUG FOR KING’S COLUMN...
Dear Editor,
I have just read a sample copy of The Davidsonian and I am so impressed by Chubby King's "King for a Day" column and also the...set an exact value for the serawi but said $73,000 has been paid for Shakespeare objects of less value.

A list of study hints for students who are tired of feverishly rushing through belated assignments has been prepared by Prof. Warren T. Powell, head of the department of student counseling at Boston University. They include:

1. Work under pressure; set a deadline inside of which work must be accomplished.
2. Make yourself rise above petty distractions; when they come, accept them, then go back to your studying without losing your stride.
3. Assume that you are liable for an account of all you are studying.
4. Maintain an alert questioning attitude and criticize all that you read.
5. Develop habits of positive attack on your studies. Interest seldom comes before effort is made in that subject.
6. Feel an interest in your improvement.
7. Avoid and control disturbances and fatigue.
8. Plan proper length and distribution of study periods, one to two-hour units for easy or varied emotional work; and thirty minutes with two or three-minute rest periods in between for unfamiliar or difficult work.

Student members of Pi Sigma Alpha, honorary political science fraternity at Washington and Jefferson College, not satisfied with present governmental and political conditions, have laid the groundwork for a third party. The fraternity has branded capital gains and surplus profits taxes as discriminatory and not progressive, and advocates their abolition. They also advocate the extension of Civil Service “within reason.” Compulsory arbitration of labor disputes is scored for its “fascist tone,” and other “undesirable characteristics.” The Roosevelt administration was especially criticized for its Supreme Court activity as the organization advocated limiting powers of the legislative bodies with regard to changing decisions or influencing opinions of the federal court.

WEDNESDAY, FEB. 2, 1938

WADE BARROW — Oh, goody! I can write the nice dirt column this week. It’s so much fun and I have so much to tell all you readers about. My typewriter keys are fairly gambling over one another so anxious are they to print what they know, for you all. And I shan't keep you waiting another minute because I know how impatient you must be. So, my, my! Here goes (Yeah, you guessed it, Kang ain't here and I got to do the dirty work again).

Frankly, men, I've got something here that would be front-page news anywhere but at Davidson. It concerns Messrs. Alton Riley Cates, Jr., and John Newton Smith. These two were the sensation of the week and that, I do believe, is saying no small amount. As I said, I have something HERE—in Georgia—and you can get detailed information by dropping in. (Any time, night or day. Chubby'll be up—he went to bed last week).

Thought you'd scare me, didn't you, Pittman, Henderson, and Taylor? Thought I'd let you threaten me into not saying anything about your little trip to Spartanburg Monday, didn't you? Well, I refuse to be intimidated. I hope everybody that isn’t supposed to sees this and all of you get in plenty of trouble. Of course, I don’t know whether you actually went or not but it’s good material just the same.

How the boys did let their hair down Saturday night! An outsider thought that exams were just over. At the Tavern Sam Cothran, Mark Lillard, Ovid Bell, Marshall (Surprise) Foote and party, picked up where Hayseed and W. Elmore left off. George Ficklin, Tom Crichton, and Tom Hackney played around with little biddie girls. Yates Faison, Bill Boyd, Billy Battle Crooks, and Stu Barnes bowled away the evening. Faison got so worked up on one throw they picked him up at the head pin two alleys over. And just what did happen to McQueen and Frampton? They were bound for Florida but rumor has it that Willie exercised a woman's privilege. Another indefinite destination was Abell-Palmer-Marion & Co.'s. They set out for Fancy Dress at W. & L. but landed at P. C. in Clinton.

The freshmen basketeers found out what girls are when they played in Mooresville the other night. Jim Hoge and Winston Taylor were satisfied but I hope Billy Turner wasn't. Torrey MacLean’s girl couldn't just go riding because her parents said she had to have a definite objective in mind. Rixx Reid has gone positively batty. The other night he sat up in bed and, sleeping soundly, said: “Look what love can do. I’m like a fish out of water when I'm with you.”

Followers of Elmore Holt's vivid career can’t be pacified this week. All I can say is that he’s found a new flame and, no kiddin’, this is really the ONE. As far as past affairs are concerned, there's strictly no dope. (Hello again, Harriet. Chubby is playing the Roosevelt Ball in Lincolnton tonight. He's got a swell band for this job—all the regulars from Washington, Greensboro, etc., are on hand. You'd get a kick out of hearing ‘em. What! you say you bet Chubby told me to write this just so he'd get a bit of publicity. Aw, you're crazy. He wouldn't do that and neither would I).

Polly Robinson is a pretty girl and George Cowan went in debt to buy her a sandwich. McClintock Giles let feminine wiles keep him from church—who wouldn't?

Take Remarks in Class—The following were made by professors during the last days before exams: “Pretty soon a student will have to be able to play a musical instrument before he is granted his degree.” “You guys just as well learn the whole book, but I doubt if you can pass it anyway.” “I see no reason why anyone should fail this course.” The following remarks were made by students during and after exams: “Whew, gosh, gee, golly, wow!”

Purrty Soft... A quiet room with low light: A soft touch on my shoulder: A warm breath on my cheek: A little face against my own—Who let the darn cat in?

Could It Be? — Could it be that there are ghosts in our own dear Davidson? Indeed there are some of the colored population who sincerely believe that there are really and truly ghosts on the loose this very minute in our very rooms. They will quake with terror and point out the recent incidents surrounding the death and funeral of Oscar. First, there was the fire at the church during his funeral; then there was the wreck of the hearse that was taking his body for burial in South Carolina; then they say the fire in Davidson was uncalled for and to top it off you will find many a dusky individual who has seen suspicious figures in the region of yon dark cemetery. I say, could it be?

A New Deal — A story is going the rounds to the effect that a government investigator visited a farm in order to list all the property and put a valuation on it. He had a little book of instructions telling him how to estimate the value of all the different classes of animals and articles. In the course of his survey, he encountered a creature which apparently was not listed in any of the categories, although the thing resembled a goat. Perplexed, he wired Washington for special instructions, as follows: “Have found animal with long, forlorn face, scraggly beard, and skinny body. What is it and what valuation shall I set on it?” A few hours later he received this reply from Washington: “We are of the opinion that the animal you describe is a farmer and has no value.”

Thumb Nail Sketch—The person being described this time comes from “God's country,” the hills of East Tennessee. He has been at Davidson more years than I care to say and is known by every member of the student body. He in turn, knows the names of Davidson students but has difficulty in recalling any particular name on the spur of the moment. He usually refers to the individual in mind as Mister er—er—er. This person is often seen near Mr. Jackson's office or somewhere on the first floor of the South wing of Chambers. In the late afternoon, he takes a leisurely stroll about the campus. Students sometimes complain about getting letters from him that are not very encouraging, and a peculiar thing about these letters is that most of them are dictated but not read.

TODAY AND THURSDAY
JOHN BARRYMORE
JOHN HOWARD
LOUISE CAMPBELL
“Bulldog Drummond’s Revenge”
Extra—BRADDOCK VS. FARR
Round by Round Picture of the Fight of the Year!

Friday & Sat.
“ON OUR STAGE—“Swingtime Varieties”
Another Red Hot Stage Revue...