WEDNESDAY, MARCH 2, 1938 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Question of the Week

This week we decided to leave to his own resources and look around for a while. And darned if those
international guys over in Europe don't start trouble every day. We find the pages streaming with headlines about some nation
getting ready to fight. As long as they stay over there and settle their own disputes, we don't bother much
about the situation; but when the thing begins to involve the United States, and that means us personally and individually,
that’s a horse of another color.

If you read the papers to any extent at all, you know that things are in tumult in England. Anthony
Eden, ex-foreign secretary, has resigned because of the new policy Britain has begun to follow—a policy of compromise with Italy,
which means, of course, with Mussolini. Personally, we feel that the mistress of the seas is surrendering a bit of
her prestige by her latest move, but others feel, perhaps rightly, that the step will aid in the preservation of
world peace. To find what some of the students thought, we asked this question: “Do you think that England is
right in trying to preserve peace by compromising with Mussolini?”

Johnny McQueen, Senior: “Yes, England is looking ahead toward preventing Mussolini and Hitler from uniting, and thus protecting the world
from war. An agreement with Italy will stimulate her trade.”

Euclid Fant, Senior: “Yes, provided that peace results. It is possible, however, that this will encourage Mussolini to further atrocities,
and the move has already cost the British cabinet its best statesman.”

Charles Akers, Sophomore: “I am in favor of this provided that in compromising, England will not lose prestige. However, there
is danger that Mussolini will seek further compromise to strengthen his own power and weaken that of England.”

Ben Nash, Senior: “No, Italy is a fascist nation. Great Britain is democratic. England's compromise is getting them into further
complications. If anything, I think it will lead to war rather than peace. I'm against Fascism in any case—it just
doesn’t fit in with democratic principles. This compromise, too, jeopardizes peace between the U.S. and England because America is strictly
democratic and unfavorable to Fascism and its propaganda.”

Bob Nichols, Senior: “I think England should follow a hands-off policy and avoid entanglements in Europe; in other words, I
think she should follow Anthony Eden instead of Chamberlain. A multi-power pact might lead to a monopoly of power and
eventually begin another world war.”

Speaker: “Don’t Force Yourself to Be Good,” Said Dr. J. A. Redhead, Jr., of Charlotte

“Don’t force yourself to be good,” said Dr. J. A. Redhead, Jr., pastor of the Second Presbyterian Church of Charlotte,
in his sermon here on last Sunday evening at Vesper Services. Preaching on the subject, “Being Good Without Trying,” Dr.
Redhead used as his text II Corinthians 3:18, “But we all, with unveiled face beholding as in a mirror the
glory of the Lord, are transformed into the same image from glory to glory, even as from the Lord the
Spirit.”

Two Types of People

Dr. Redhead stated, “The method of trying to be good is to be ridiculed.” He then discussed the two kinds
of good people. One type, he said, are those people who are good by trying and the other kind are
spontaneous good people. This second group has goodness like the lilies of the field—they toil not, neither do they spin.
This, he concluded, is the goodness of Christ, for at no place in the Bible are we led to believe
that Christ's goodness was not spontaneous.

“We are changed more by contagion than by conscious effort,” Dr. Redhead said in trying to develop a method by
which spontaneous goodness might be acquired. We must follow the words of the text, II Corinthians 3:18, and live in
a spiritual relationship so that goodness may flow without effort. We must look at Christ, he said, for we are
like what we look at.

Choosing Our Companions

The whole matter about the choosing of our mental companions is difficult to accomplish. Dr. Redhead emphasized the fact that
the chief of these companions should be Christ for “We all, with unveiled face beholding as in a mirror the
glory of the Lord, are transformed into the same image from glory to glory, even as from the Lord the
Spirit.”

Rose Gallery Works

Rose Gallery Lends Paintings To Mint Museum

A collection of pictures from the Robert C. Rose Galleries of Boston is now on exhibit at the Mint Museum
of Art in Charlotte. The exhibit is to be shown there through March 6. The Rose Galleries were established in
Boston in 1841, and their management has passed from father to son until now. The exhibit of this well-known collection
is made possible by the generosity of Mr. and Mrs. J. Luther Snyder of Charlotte. The Mint Museum is located
in the fashionable Eastover section of Charlotte.

Mr. Rose's collection is a large one. His pictures are valued individually from several hundreds of dollars up into the
thousands. He also lectures three times each week on the collection. His lectures are largely historical as he does not
analyze specific pictures. Mr. Rose is inclined towards the classical and old masters rather than the modern type of work,
although he has some modernistic paintings.

The Mint Museum authorities have repeatedly invited Davidson students over to view the collection. They have designated that they wish
it to be an art shrine for educational institutions.

Some of the better-known masters and their works being exhibited are: Claude Monet “Paysage Printemps,” (valued at $7,500), Thomas Gainsborough
“Little Boy Blue” ($10,000), Constant Troyon “Guarde Chasse,” Alphonse Mucha “Chaumières aux Sablons,” J. B. Corot “Conversation sous les Arbres,”
R. A. Blakelock “Moon Magic,” Allen Ramsay “Henrietta Duer,” and George Inness, N. A. “After Sundown, Montclair.”

Masquers Plan Play

The Red and Black Masquers, the dramatic society of the college, are contemplating whether to present the comedy, “The Bishop
Misbehaves” or “Big Hearted Herbert,” also a comedy. Most opinion seems to favor the latter. The club will hold tryouts
for the cast in the near future and rehearsals will probably begin next week. The play will be presented in
Chambers in the next month and will most likely be presented at some girls’ colleges.

A. S. BROWN
General Merchandise, Paragon Dress Shirts, Endicott Army Shoes
Telephone No. 7

Charlotte Pastor Is at Services

R. R. Morrison Gives College Several Gifts

Grandson of Davidson’s First President Presents Valuable Items

Dr. Rufus Reid Morrison, grandson of the first president of Davidson College, has recently presented the school with an interesting
collection of Davidsoniana.

Among the most valuable of the items received is the inaugural address of the first president, Dr. Robert Hall Morrison,
delivered in 1838. Also of interest is the remarkable address of Major D. H. Hill on college discipline, delivered as
a member of the faculty here. It was the ideas expressed in this speech that led to the student rebellion
of 1855, one of the most amazing bits of Davidson's history.

Receive Rare Volume

Included in the gift is a rare volume published by Dr. Blake, who was acting president of the college from
1871-1877. This copy of the “Souvenir” is the only one known to exist, with the exception of one housed at
the University of North Carolina.

These items were formerly housed in the old Morrison home, “Mount Mournes,” built before Davidson was founded. The ancient mansion,
perhaps, was the scene of much interest to travelers between Charlotte and Statesville, but now the place has passed from
one generation to another and is owned by Major Rufus Reid. It has been little altered in the same family.

It is from such gifts as this and a similar one made last year by Col. Baxter Davidson of Charlotte,
that the library may hope to complete its collection of early publications.

Band Feted In Twin Cities

Miss Hanes Is Hostess in Dinner Party

On last Tuesday night, twenty-five members of the Davidson Symphonic Band traveled to Winston-Salem, where they were the guests of
Miss Katherine Hanes at a dinner party on the Roof of the Robert E. Lee Hotel. Among the two hundred
and fifty people present, other honor guests included the girls from the Home Economics Departments of Salem College and Greensboro
College. Governor Clyde Hoey was also an honor guest and made a short address.

Miss Hanes had planned a most enjoyable evening for her guests. First, the members of the symphonic band played a
concert, led by Mr. Robert Smith of Charlotte, who is directing the band in Mr. Pfohl’s absence. Mr. Warren Babcock
also played two cello solos, accompanied at the piano by Prof. Thane MacDonald. The quartet, composed of Jim Ballard, Stuart
Harper, Beall, K. Wilson, and J. Oglesby, was then heard in two selections. Following this program, the stage turned to
Chubby King and his band, and dancing and swing was enjoyed by the guests until a late hour.

Because the president of Georgetown College (Ky.) has been baptized only once, he is in danger of losing his job.
A conservative element of the Baptist council which controls the college contends that one immersion may be sufficient for a
layman, but that a minister should be baptized at least twice.College Be Prompt an maVvASites: WHITE DRUG STORE DAVIDSON, N.
C. “Davidson’s Oldest and Best”

Page Three

Spring Tour Rehearsals

Le Cercle Francais Begins Preparations For Three French Plays

Rehearsals this week for plays which the Cercle Francais is preparing to give in the near future. The Grand Guignol
is the most famous of theaters in Paris, specializing in program-

The Glee Club, under the direction of Professor Thane MacDonald, is preparing to take a trip through the eastern part
of this state. The trip will last from Saturday through Wednesday. The organization will visit several churches and colleges during
the trip.

Glee Club Leaves For Spring Tour Saturday

Musical Organization to Travel Through Eastern N. C.

The Davidson College Glee Club leaves next Saturday at noon on its annual spring tour of eastern North Carolina. This
year’s trip is somewhat longer than that of last year. The first concert of this series will take place at
the First Presbyterian Church in Wilmington, on Sunday night. Dr. Gilmour, pastor of the church, will deliver a short sermon,
after which the glee club will present only the sacred section of its regular program, and the quartet will sing
at least one number.

On Monday, the club will return to Red Springs where they will give a concert. The club has recently reorganized
and made to “feel at home” the eight junior college basketball teams which came here. President Tom Abbott of the
Charlotte Alumni Association has acquired a large stage with many heavier nature. Harper Beall, baritone, who is the group’s soloist.

Ping Pong Tournament Is In Second Round

The recently reorganized Beaver Club, since its reorganization, has seen a large number of contestants enter the tournament. The contestants
were divided into groups and each group was assigned to one of the visiting colleges. Each house was also assigned
to each team in order that the groups might have some place to entertain their guests. Some selected numbers will
be sung by the varsity quartet, consisting of James Ballard, John K. Wilson, Jr., and others.

Physics Group Hears Discussions

The regular meeting of Sigma Pi Sigma, the physics fraternity, was held last Monday evening, Feb. 21, with Marvin Martin
Lafferty, president, presiding. Several papers prepared by the men were read. The chemistry professors were cordially invited and attended the
reading. The papers were based on modern concepts of physics.

Archie Torrey presented a subject on “Relativity,” in which he attempted to explain the fourth dimension in simple language. He
said the fourth dimension world appears to us who live in a 3-dimensional one as a 3-dimensional one would seem
to men who could live in a 2-dimensional world. To them, the world would seem flat but it is really
curved. In the same way, space which would appear straight to us would be curved.

Martin Lafferty also read a paper on “Radio Activity” which gave information on modern experiments about the transmutations of elements.
It told of the cyclotron which develops speed potentials up to three and a half million volts.

Chubby King and Band Play At Davidson

Last Wednesday night, Chubby King and his band played a formal concert at the Davidson Inn. The student body attended
and enjoyed the music. An added feature was the serving of refreshments by some charming young ladies. The orchestra presented
a variety of numbers showing their ability to play slow fox trots, swing, and jazz music. The boys presented a
good arrangement of “Indian Love Call” and ended up by playing “O Davidson” in several different ways. The best of
all, however, was their interpretations of “Caravan” and “House Hot.” Paul McGarity and J. C. Donald did some good playing
on the trumpet, while Billy Crooks frenziedly beat out on a drum solo.

See Our New Quality Groceries

Call Us When You Need Coal or Wood Delivered Same Day...

Davidson Ice & Fuel Co. PHONE 130

Belk Bros. Co. Charlotte, N. C. MEN’S CLOTHING STREET FLOOR
