WEDNESDAY, OCT. 5, 1938 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Three

Question of the Week

This week a question has been asked to a few upperclassmen concerning a subject that is vitally connected with every
student at Davidson, whether an upperclassman or not: “Is the Davidson Wildcat Spirit all that it is cracked up to
be?” Do you as readers think that our spirit is all that it should or could be? Is our spirit
slipping?

* * * *

Bob McClelland, Senior:
Certainly the Wildcat Spirit is not slipping at Davidson. As long as Davidson College exists, so long will there be
a real Wildcat Spirit. Each year should see an increase; this year is a decided improvement over last. One regulation
change that would improve our spirit would be single cuts for all off-campus football games. Why should Davidson rooters with
enough real spirit to go to these off-campus games suffer double cuts while those attending a game other than the
Davidson game receive single cuts?

* * *

Hank Bahnson, Sophomore:
This student body has one of the best all-year spirits of any college that I know. There is a good
team spirit, a fighting spirit, that came to a point at the Duke game. Although out-classed and out-weighed, there was
nowhere to be seen that defeatist attitude that is so often prevalent in such circumstances.

* * *

Ken Darby, Senior:
There is a decided improvement in the Wildcat Spirit since last year. Especially I have noticed it in reference to
the Freshman class. Theirs is one of the best spirits that have been on the campus.

* * * *

Charlie Luther, Junior:
Among the upperclassmen, there is none; among the Freshman, plenty. My viewpoint is based entirely on facts gathered from the
pep meetings. When a handful of upperclassmen show up to set the Freshman an example of the so-called “Wildcat Spirit,”
there’s decidedly spirit lacking somewhere, not with the Frosh.

* * *

Mack Otts, Sophomore:
I think that the spirit as a whole is swell. We are behind the team when they are on the
“up,” but when they fall down a noticeable slipping off of spirit can be detected at once. A darn good
example was the first half of the Davidson-N.C. State game in Charlotte a week ago. Let's be for them at
all times, up or down.

* * *

Jack Holland, Junior:
For many years the Davidson campus has been highly touted for its Wildcat Spirit. To every freshman about to enter
Davidson, this so-called Wildcat Spirit sounds extremely attractive; during the period of orientation, he sees himself as part of this
spirit. Then in a week or so, with the arrival of the upperclassmen and rush week, his interest in the
Wildcat Spirit is diverted and begins to wane. This is easily comprehensible when we stop to consider that every Davidson
man is guilty of such lapses at some time, speaking of a general “don't care” attitude about studies and other
matters. Yes, the Wildcat Spirit may be on the downgrade, but there's no reason why every Davidsonian can't wake up
and realize that he is a part of the school, and of the Wildcat Spirit.

* * *

Ten Nations Claim Youth At Davidson

Davidson Student Body Made Up of Cosmopolitan Gathering

22 STATES REPRESENTED

The Davidson student body this year is composed of boys from 22 different states, the District of Columbia, and 9
countries. This is a decrease in the number of states as compared with last year but an increase in the
number of foreign countries. North Carolina again leads all other states, having 378 students, almost 8 times as many as
their nearest rival, South Carolina, which has 48 boys. Tennessee is a close third with 39; while Georgia, Virginia, and
Florida are fourth, fifth, and sixth with 35, 32, and 29 respectively. Alabama is seventh with 15, while Kentucky and
Mississippi are tied for eighth place with 10 each; New York is ninth with 9; New Jersey, Ohio, and China
are tied for 10th with 6 each; Pennsylvania is 11th with 5; Louisiana, Arkansas, Texas, and Washington, D.C. are tied
for 12th with 4 each. Connecticut, Iowa, Maryland, Africa, Cuba, Philippine Islands, Porto Rico, and Korea are all tied for
last place with 2 each.

* * *

I.R.C. Will Bid New Members

International Affairs Will Be Commented Upon

The International Relations Club will hold their first meeting on Friday night from 9 to 10 o'clock. The program for
the meeting is unknown at this time, but it is expected that one will be worked out by the time
for the meeting. Probably the first business will be the discussion of whom to extend bids. The International Relations Club
is a national student organization formed for the purpose of studying and discussing current national affairs and problems of national
and international scope. Not only does this society seek to reward students for their interest in international problems, but it
also seeks to promote the interest of the student body in world affairs. The faculty members of this organization are
Dr. C. K. Brown, Prof. Archibald Currie, and Prof. Brewer. The student members are E. C. Brewer, H. Calvin, W.
B. Gaw, J. Hemphill, S. W. Newell, J. S. Rice, and R. Stair.

* * *

Business Club Meets

The first meeting of the Commerce Club of the year was held Monday night.

* * *

Davidsonian Originator

Lex Kluttz, shown above on the right, with Bob Booth, is one of the three men responsible for the founding
of The Davidsonian. Kluttz graduated from Davidson in the class of 1915, and with two college mates, Paul Patrick and
Frank Price, helped to start the weekly college paper. While in college he was President of the Athletic Association and
a member of O.D.K. At present he is general secretary of the Charlotte “Y.”

* * *

Sigma Upsilon Will Hold Its First Meeting

Several Faculty Members Are Expected to Be Present

The Sigma Upsilon fraternity will hold its first regular meeting of the year next Tuesday night at 9 o'clock at
the K.A. House. Before the program begins, the business of extending bids to new members will be discussed, after which
will come the election of officers. The officers for the year are: S. W. Newell, president; M. E. Morrow, vice
president; Rut Jones, secretary.

* * *

Beavers To Entertain High School Bandsmen

Ferguson, Mashburn, and Jones Form Arrangements Committee

MANY BANDS COMING

Members of the Beaver Club will entertain the many high school bands which will visit the campus Friday and play
for the Erskine game. President Buck Powell, who succeeded Charles Akers when Akers failed to return to school this fall,
made plans for entertaining the band members from the time they arrive Friday morning. The Beaver Club was organized in
1928. This was a small gold “D” with a beaver head in the center. There were not enough members present
to vote on the proposed design, but a vote will be taken later. The club aims to entertain all visiting
high school, junior college, and prep school bands.Stu Miller, secretary and treasurer, Jack Ferguson was appointed to head the committee
in charge of arrangements, and Charlie Mashburn and Casey Jones were selected to work with him. The program will be
opened by a discussion of the fraternity’s plans for the future. Election of officers, scheduled for the initial meeting, was
postponed due to a lack of a quorum. George Jones, president, was elected last spring, but no other officers have
been chosen.

The Commerce Club is a comparative newcomer on campus, having been founded last year. This year’s program was inaugurated with
the group holding full-fledged membership in the honorary fraternity council for the first time. Bill Marquess, as chairman of the
organization, will then present an essay to the group, followed by a short story by Jack Holland. There will be
several faculty members present. They are Prof. Cummings, Prof. Lilly, Dr. Hood, Prof. Goldiere, Prof. Erwin, and Chalmers Davidson.

The Sigma Upsilon is a National Honorary Fraternity whose purpose is to recognize literary talent and ability on the campus
and to encourage literary effort among the students. The faculty members of this fraternity are Profs. Beaty, Dr. Brown, Mr.
Boggs, Dr. Cumming, Prof. Davidson, Prof. Erwin, Prof. Goldiere, Dr. Hood, Prof. Lilly, and Prof. Johnston. The student members are
S. W. Newell, J. W. Holland, W. H. Marquess, and W. R. Morrow.

Student Body To Hear Free Music Series
First Davidson Music Festival To Be Event of Coming Months

Throughout the coming year, the Davidson Music Department will present a series of concerts here on the campus for the
benefit of the student body, the first of these coming Friday night, Oct. 7. All concerts will be held in
Chambers Auditorium and all Davidson students will be admitted free. For outsiders, the single admission is priced at 50 cents.
Season tickets may be obtained for $2.

During the coming months, the following concerts will be given:
- Friday, Oct. 7—Little Philharmonic Symphony of Chicago, George H. Shapiro, conductor
- Monday, Oct. 31—Davidson Little Symphony, James Christian Pfohl, conductor
- Friday, Nov. 11—Davidson Symphonic Band
- Wednesday, Nov. 30—Davidson Glee Club
- Feb. 12-14, Davidson's First Music Festival, University of Michigan Little Symphony, Davidson Little Symphony, Davidson Glee Club, Mixed Chorus,
Thor Johnson and James Christian Pfohl conducting
- Friday, March 10—Davidson Symphonic Band
- Wednesday, March 22—Davidson Glee Club and Little Symphony, Thane McDonald and James Christian Pfohl

No man can do more than his best, but a good many men can do more than they think is
their best.

Strange Levite Order Has Debut On Campus
Mystic Society Advocates “No Hair-Cut Till Thanksgiving” Movement
IDEA SWEEPS COUNTRY

The ancient and honorable order of Levi has at last become an actual fact upon this fair Davidson campus. For
many years, the school was mercifully free from the acts of this nefarious group, but now we find it sweeping
the campus like wildfire under the foul auspices of Marvin Sink, Harry Suttonfield, and Bobby McClelland. It is rumored that
Levi Suttonfield inaugurated the Wildcat chapter with Old Mother Hubbard's pretty daughter as his chief inspiration. Although we have no
actual proof of Levi's many escapades, the actress’ little sister did mention in passing that one Levi Goldberg, alias Handsome
Harry Suttonfield, had been trifling with her affections.

The society has not held an official meeting, but several men are in line for high positions. Bob McClelland, “Fireman
Bob” to his many admirers, will undoubtedly achieve the honor of High Priest, while Handsome Harry is content to be
the power behind the throne as Vice-Priest, Scribe, and Chairman of the Exchequer. “Hairless Joe” Shelton seems a good prospect
for the synonymous offices of dog-catcher and cook, with “Jiving Jim” McDonald announcing watery raiders with his trumpet. Leviticus Sink
originated the only idea of “No hair-cut until Thanksgiving” when the Levites will feast on the fruits of “Hairless Joe's”
labors.

Every effective typeface is a potential salesman for work which is not judged by its price alone. Some people are
born great, others make themselves great, and the rest of them grate upon others.

J. O. JONES Inc.
SINGLE BREAST CHEST SLEEVES ZIPPER PULL FITTING WAIST CLOSE SHORT SMALL
THESE ARE THE FEATURES $25, $30, $35
J. O. JONES, Inc.
DRAPES OR NOTCH LAPELS FITTING WAIST—TAP VESTS HIGH BOTTOM TROUSERS COUNTER TRY THIS MARVEL SEE FOR YOURSELF

College Pharmacy
Davidson's “Service Drug Store”

STATE THEATRE
Mooresville, N. C.
Wed. Oct. 5 Broadway Bill
Thurs.-Fri. Oct. 6-7 Passport Husband
Mon.-Tues. Oct. 10-11 Rich Man, Poor Girl

Davidson Car Plates Boost Your School 25c Complete

PARKER Dunlap Vacumatic Fountain Pens
—as well as the revolutionary Hermetically Sealed Tournament Tennis Balls $1.20, Can of Three 15% Off

Last Opportunity
BILL TELFORD —— SAM HEMPHILL
STUDENT STORE

This is done by Parker Quink, which is harmless. It dissolves the gum and other trouble-some particles left in your
pen by ordinary inks. It makes your pen a self-cleaner—cleans as it writes. Parker Quink is full-bodied, rich, and brilliant.
There is not—and never has been—any other pen designed to handle all kinds of inks—good and bad. One reason is
that this modern invention has no rubber ink sac, no lever filler, no piston pump. It is filled by a
simple diaphragm, sealed in the top. And its patented Television barrel lets you SEE the level of ink at all
times—see when to refill. This pedigreed Beauty of laminated Pearl and Jet is everywhere acknowledged to be the grandest pen
ever created. Yet even this Guaranteed Mechanically Perfect pen can be plugged up by the grit and gum in ordinary
writing inks. Hence to guard the celebrated Parker Pens from pen-clogging inks, Parker experts developed this utterly new kind of
writing ink—called Quink—an ink that actually cleanses any pen as it writes. It makes your pen a self-cleaner—cleans as it
writes. Parker Quink is full-bodied, rich, and brilliant. It dries on PAPER quicker than average, due to stepped-up penetration. Yet
Quink costs no more than ordinary inks. Small bottles, 15c and 25c. If you use an ordinary pen, you need
Quink even more than does a Parker Pen owner to keep it in writing condition. If you use a Parker
Pen, you'll be thrilled and surprised by the way it performs when filled with Quink. For until we created Quink
and the Parker Vacumatic Pen, there never was a really scientific writing combination. Those who can afford the best will
not rest until they have them both. The Parker Pen Company, Janesville, Wis.
