| By TONI CASALI (CAT-TALES DAVIDSON SPORTS Basketball Team Trains For Hard Winter Season Wednesday, November 30, 1938 GUEST COLUMNIST—JACK ABERNATHY If Toni’s reader happens to look over the usual slot this week, hoping against hope, perhaps he'll receive a pleasant shock to discover that he will get some relief, for this week at least. This is the better half of 104 West, trying to give you in this small space a birds-eye view of the sports domain as it appears to the slightly inexperienced eye of a sports writer's roommate. And so now Southern California gets to take a crack at mighty Duke's spotless record. The once powerful and awe-inspiring Trojans have already fallen beneath the scalping knife twice, and from this distance, it looks as though the Fighting Irish are due to tumble them again. On paper, therefore, Duke should hold the edge, but “we” just can’t see the Devils as a scoring machine, and they will be hard put to hold down the top-flight Trojans. All evidence to the contrary, I'll take Duke. Speaking of machines, The Deacons from over Wake Forest way really flashed one on our ‘Cats that rainy Thanksgiving—remember? To me, that’s the story in a nutshell—our boys had the will, but they simply couldn't match the smooth-functioning power of the Baptists. And thus we come to the close of another season of that glorious, glamorous, color-filled pageant crammed with heartbreaks and heart-throbs, hard knocks and hard smashes, and known in the vernacular as football. While the memories of the past season are still fresh, and speculation runs riot on the prospects for next year's team, it might be well to look at the “killer” schedule lined up for the coming hopefuls. With ten of the starting lineup graduating come June, and only a crop of untried sophomores to augment the thin line of juniors and seniors, next year’s edition of Wildcats will really have a problem on their hands. To me, it will always be a never-ceasing miracle, and perhaps an explanation of that hoary about the Wildcat spirit, how Davidson teams can face the tough schedules that they do year after year, and still turn out such creditable records as the Fighting ‘Cats have always managed to do. Though it may be sentimental, and though it may show an appalling lack of football knowledge, I say Hats Off! to the whole Wildcat crew—to the players who sacrificed a valuable part of their lives in hard practice and tougher games and to the coaches who guide them with all their time and energies. With the donning of overcoats, mufflers, gloves, the first biting winds of winter and its accompanying snows, and the inevitable shifting of the sports scene to the indoors, comes the eternal question—What kind of basketball team are we going to have this year? As has been said countless times before, with four of last year's flashing regulars returning—Captain Iverson, “Footsie” Cowan, J. D. Hicks, and Johnny Tice—and with a wealth of excellent and seasoned subs from last year's superb edition back, the basketeers should really have a good season this year, and here’s wishing them all luck. An Amateur's Jottings From the Cuff: Why didn’t Wake Forest play their “powerhouse” Powers in his regular slot at tackle against us? “The straight dope” seems to be that Powers has been ineligible all season, and that Davidson pointed out the fact to Wake Forest officials before the game. They agreed to, and did, keep him out of the game with us. However, the point remains that all their other opponents, according to rules, can claim a win by forfeit... Among the other little sung sports closing very successful seasons with the onrush of winter are Cross Country, with Captain Dave Woodward and Walker flashing in fine style as usual despite injuries, and Soccer, with two games left to finish the season out. And both sports deserve more student support than they will probably ever receive... Remember, they do it for sheer love of the game. Time for picking all-star teams is at hand again, so send in all the ballots and you too can help boost the Wildcat’s stock. Captain Dave Warden and Slashing Bill Johnston deserve, along with the rest of the team, all the support you can give them... Here I am at the end of my rope, and I've uttered no shining polemics, made no brilliant statements about the appreciation of the student body for the untiring and back-breaking labors of its athletic representatives, but I know that you've all expressed that intangible feeling to them yourself. Such things go beyond words... Phi Delts and Phi Gams Tie As Touch Ball Ends Standings The Phi Gams clinched a first-place position in interfraternity touch football last Tuesday by conquering the Kappa Sigs 14-0. The Phi Delts and the Phi Gams ended the intrafraternity touch football race in a deadlock for first place with seven wins and one defeat each. The only Phi Delt loss came at the hands of the Phi Gams, 2-1, while the Phi Gams lost only to the Sig-Eps in a very close game. Won Lost Phi Gams 7 1 Kappa Sigs 6 2 Sig-Eps 5 3 S.A.E 4 4 Pi Kaps 4 4 Pipes 2 6 K.A 1 7 Bean 0 8 In the third game of the day, the Phi Gams and the Kappa Sigs came on the field realizing that the winner of their contest would tie with the Phi Delts for the top position. The first half looked as if it would be a punting duel, but suddenly on the first down Dick Shore faded and threw a long pass down the middle which George Jones pulled down for a 15-yard gain. Then immediately afterward, a short pass from Shore to Cage Brewer connected for what proved to be the only first down of the game. The second half found the Kappa Sigs trying vainly to connect with an aerial that would net a tying score. Phi Delts Beat Pi Kaps The Phi Delts conquered the Pi Kaps earlier in the day by the score of 18-0. A lateral from Bill Boyd shook Lock Hunter loose for a 75-yard run for a touchdown in the first half. Also, Bill Boyd scored on the second play of the game. The other touchdown came in the second half when Andy Dale caught a short pass from the goal line. S.A.E.’s Win The S.A.E.’s beat the Betas 9-0. Three first downs were scored by the S.A.E.’s before they could push over a score on a pass from George Ficklen to Hayseed Thomas. The Sig-Eps beat the K.A’s in a game that had been postponed. [Continued on Page Six] THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Four Davidsonian All-State Team This is the annual Davidsonian All-State eleven as picked by the Sports Staff for 1938: FIRST TEAM POSITION SECOND TEAM PERDUE (DUKE) IVERSON (DAVIDSON) MARONIC (CAROLINA) WARDEN (DAVIDSON) JOHNSTON (DAVIDSON) WOODSON (CAROLINA) HILL (DUKE) ADAM (CAROLINA) YORKE (DUKE) TRUNZO (W. FOREST) COON (STATE) GRAHAM (DAVIDSON) KLINE (CAROLINA) DARNELL (DUKE) STIRNWEISS (CAROLINA) LALANNE (CAROLINA) TIPTON (DUKE) GALLOVICH (W. FOREST) EAVES (DUKE) ROONEY (STATE) O’MARA (DUKE) KRAYNICK (CAROLINA) Honorable Mention: Ends, Benfield, (Davidson), Jett (W. Forest); Tackles, Haas (Carolina), Pate (W. Forest); Guards, Pennington (Davidson), Acai (State); Center, Retter (State); Backs, Davis (Davidson), Wirtz (W. Forest), Hand (Davidson), Stair (Davidson). McAfee (Duke), Spangler (Duke). Outlook Good In Basketball Davidson's varsity basketball squad is daily working out as they prepare for their arduous Southern Conference schedule to start soon. Coach Norman Shepard has the cagesters out daily working on fundamentals now, and leading up to more complicated play later in practice. Four of last year’s starting five are back to give Davidson a strong line-up for the season. From last year’s team, Ned Iverson is back to handle the forward duties with the other forward starter yet to be picked. Footsie Cowan is back at his old position center and is rapidly rounding into top shape. J. D. Hicks will handle one of the guard slots and should capably fill it with his aggressive type of play while John Tice, the ball-hawk, will fill out the starting line-up. Several men are fighting it out for the fifth position on the team. Bill Boyd, Hayseed Thomas, Benny Harrison back from last year’s reserves, and Swede Johnson, a sophomore, are also looking good in early practice. This season the Wildcats will be out to erase several close defeats of last year which kept them out of the Southern Conference tourney in Raleigh at the end of the season. Although the ‘Cats had a fast, well-balanced team, theydropped several games by one or two-point margins. With the added experience of another year of play under their belts, and aided by strong reserves, they are looking forward to a successful season.

Frosh Cagers To Open Soon
Forty Report To Coach Laird For Opening Drills

Frosh basketball practice began in earnest this week as football men for the training period. Over forty aspirants reported to Coach Flake Laird last week and got right down to intensive practice on fundamentals. So far practice has consisted mostly of shooting, passing, and handling the ball, with plays and the finer points scheduled for next week. Because several football men reported late, Coach Laird has not announced a tentative starting lineup as yet, but it will be forthcoming sometime this week. The first game for the Kittens will be on December 9th, and with this so close at hand, the team has settled down to regular work. During the season, the frosh will take on reported pre-season the Big Five freshmen quints and several outstanding high school fives.

The principal part of everything is the beginning. Elmer Knoeller, Mickey Long, George Marsh, Ben Moore, Bob McLeod, Gene Shannon, Vic Shaw, Bill Shaw, Jack Simonds, Bob Smith, Dave Spencer, Bill Sprunt, John Starndwitz, Bill Vaughan, and Stan Yoder.

415 SOUTH TRYON STREET
[Continued on Page Six]
FAUL & CRYMES, Sporting Goods Inc.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Bill Beaty ran 26 times and gained 89 yards for a 3-plus average. Frank Harrison, reserve back, had a net gain of 39 yards in 15 rushes. Bill Bolin advanced the ball 12 yards in three tries, Bob McClellan 24 yards in 9 attempts, Grey Hunter handled the oval three times for a total gain of 10 yards.

Aerials are Success
Team totals show the 'Cat backs advanced 1,434 yards in 400 tries. In the passing department, Davis and Steed passed 133 times, completed 54, had 23 intercepted, but gained 724 yards. Davis tossed 92 of the aerials, completed 38, for 534 of the yards. Steed tossed 38 times, completed 15, for 185 yards gain. Both had 11 intercepted. Frank Harrison tossed the other completed pass which was good for 5 yards, while Ned Iverson attempted two aerials, completed none, and had one intercepted. Davidson backs took opposing tosses, seven in all, and returned them 87 yards.

Kicking Average
Davis and Steed booted the ball 79 times for 3,001 yards and an average of 37.9 each boot. Davis kicked 57 for 2,244 yards or an average of almost 40 yards on each try. Steed kicked 21 times for 722 yards and in a 34-plus average on each kick. Granville Sharpe kicked once for 35 yards.

Cat Scoring
The ‘Cats scored 15 touchdowns and converted only six extra points. Two safeties, both in the Wofford game, gave them four more points scored to their total, which summed to exactly 100 points. Davis scored four times, converted one extra point. Steed and Hand each scored twice, with the latter converting two placements. Stair crossed the goal three times for 18 points, while Harrison, Iverson, Benfield, and Cowan each scored once. Luke Graham, Harrison, and Benfield each have one conversion to his credit.

Stair Has Best Ball-Carrying Average

Duke Sweeps State Crown
Duke’s men-of-iron finished a brilliant season Saturday undefeated, untied, and unscored-on to add to their championships of the Southern Conference and Big Five. Aided by Eric (the Red) Tipton’s accurately long toe, they played for breaks and defeated the once invincible Pittsburgh Panthers on a snow-covered field in Durham as Bolo Purdue crashed through to block Chickerneo’s punt behind the goal. Carolina, having finished their schedule, remained in second place, as did State in third place. Major game of the Big Five was the Davidson-Wake Forest clash in Charlotte on Thanksgiving which the Deacons took 21-0 as both teams played poorly on a sloppy field. Following are the standings in the “Five” at the end of the season with games won and lost: Duke, won five, lost none; Carolina, won four, lost one; State, won three, lost two; Wake Forest, won one, lost four; Davidson, won none, lost five.

Soccer
Davidson's varsity soccer team had its only game scheduled for the week called off when Catawba announced immediately before game time they were unable to play on account of numerous injuries. There are two more games slated for the booters before the season ends, one with Duke and one with Catawba. In the last game with Catawba, the Davidsons tied them in two extra periods, but will be favored to win this next game. Earlier in the season, Duke defeated the ’Cats 3-1 and will be out to repeat when the two teams meet in Durham this Thursday. Davidson is expected to be at top form for the clash.

THE HIGH SCORE of Last Week Was Set By CHARLIE PEGRAM --- 131
PITCH-PATCH Bowling Alleys
Davidson, N. C.

Yes, The Season is upon us, and pretty soon we'll be quivering somewhat with Decemberish excitement. Come in often—while there’s time.

“THE TAVERN”
OUCH! You’re Stepping on December
Every college man’s calendar is much marked-up for the month that lies before us; and we too are thinking of how we'll miss you over the holiday week-end! But we keep left to keep us cheerful, and there may even be enough of you left to make us feel better. Come in often—while there’s time.

Hotel Charlotte

Wildcats Lose Final Contest of Year To Wake’s Demon Deacons
Davidson Loses 21-0 on Rain-Soaked Field as Deacons Never Relinquish Early Lead; Davis Keeps Up Fine Punting Average

Nine Tilts On 1939 Schedule
Wofford Dropped; Rest Of Slate Remains Same

Athletic Director Norman Shepard released Monday night a tentative football varsity schedule for 1939. Only major change to appear in the Wildcat schedule was the absence of Wofford College, although the North Carolina game will be played next fall in Winston-Salem and the opener with N. C. State has been moved back to Greensboro. Davidson will meet four opponents at home in addition to the annual Thanksgiving game with Wake Forest in Charlotte.

Sept. 23—N. C. State in Greensboro,
Sept. 30—Duke at Davidson,
Oct. 7—V.M.I. at Lexington, Va.
Oct. 13—S. C. at Sumter, S. C.
Oct. 21—The Citadel at Davidson.
Oct. 28—Furman at Davidson,
Nov. 4—Erskine at Davidson.
Nov. 11—N. C. in Winston-Salem.
Nov. 30—Wake Forest in Charlotte.

Wake Forest's flaming sophomores conquered a stubborn Davidson Wildcat eleven by the score of 21-0 on the Memorial stadium turf in Charlotte in their annual Thanksgiving classic. A cold drizzle that continued throughout most of the game failed to slow up the hard-running Deacon back that performed before a crowd of about 6,500. They scored touchdowns in each of the first three quarters on runs of 2, 14, and 30 yards through the Davidson team. Only once did the ’Cats seriously threaten to score, and that was in the last quarter when with amateurs dotting the Deacon lineup they passed and ran to the Wake Forest 15-yard line, but there they were held on downs.

First Score
Wake Forest set Davidson on their heels the very first play of the game by kicking to the goal line, and Davidson returned to its 15-yard stripe. There Tubby Hand plunged into the line, but he did not come up with the ball, because fullback Marshall Edwards had wrestled the ball from him. Then on two plays the Deacons marched across the goal line. The first was a line plunge by Edwards that netted a yard, then, Tony Gallovich, sensational running back, took the ball on a reverse and scooted off-tackle behind perfect blocking to score. Bill Davis and Gallovich engaged in a neat punting duel during the rest of the quarter, but early in the second quarter the Deacons started a drive after one of Davis’ boots fell dead on the Wake 49. Edwards and Gallovich combined with Red Mayberry, another Sophomore, to march down to the ‘Cat 30. Then Mayberry took the ball on a half-spinner and went off right tackle for 30 yards through the Davidson team to score. As in the other case, Gallovich kicked the extra point.

Last Demon Tally
Right after the second half kickoff, Wake Forest marched right through the Davidson line to the 9-yard line before Bill Beaty remarked summer improvement in several cases.

WHEN LIFE BEGINS AT 6... You’ll Need the DON JUAN DRESS SHIRT $2.00
NATIONAL SHIRT SHOPS (On the Square)

Printing is our Business
A COMPLETE Printing service as near as your Telephone.
STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
For a representative 3-5727
Printers of The Davidsonian
Garland Court
ESTABLISHED 1907
CHARLOTTE, N. C.