WEDNESDAY, JAN. 12, 1938

New Infirmary Now Open

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Takes this opportunity to express its appreciation to those firms whose co-operation made possible this Special Edition.

With the opening of Davidson’s new $25,000 Infirmary, the first step toward the building of the ideal Davidson campus has
been completed.

Downstairs of Infirmary Has Offices, Emergency Room, Operating Room, Laboratory, Kitchen, Private Rooms, Ward, and Solarium; Upstairs Consists of Four
Guest Rooms and Larger Ward.

This beautiful brick structure stands on the Concord Road just off the Charlotte highway facing the Martin Chemical Laboratory. It
is built in the shape of a “T," and its interior houses every modern convenience desirable.

Upon entering downstairs, a visitor finds a waiting-room equipped with brown-upholstered chromium furniture in a distinctly modernistic note. To the
left of this waiting-room is Dr. J. W. MacConnell's office. In the back hall, Mrs. Irving Johnston, the Infirmary nurse,
has her headquarters which are easily accessible to the ward and two private rooms for patients which branch off of
the hall. This downstairs ward will take care of about six patients, and immediately behind it, in the very foot
of the “T,” is the solarium, which is equipped with comfortable rolling chairs and a cabinet radio. In the east
wing of the first floor are Dr. MacConnell’s operating room, which is nicely furnished with every up-to-the-minute hospital apparatus, and
the emergency room. Mrs. Johnston has her private apartment in the west wing downstairs. The kitchen with its shiny white
modernistic equipment is also in this wing. The laboratory and drug room are also on the first floor.

Upstairs are the private guest rooms and a larger ward. Each of these private guest rooms is furnished with a
new suite of furniture, including bed, bureau, easy chair, bed-table, and lamps. There is also a private bath for each
room with shower as well as tub equipment. There are four of these guest rooms, which in emergency will be
used for student patients, and also a guest waiting room. The upstairs ward will accommodate ten patients and covers the
entire west wing. There is a large bathroom just off the ward. Each room in the entire building has venetian
blinds, semi-indirect lighting, and hardwood floors. Besides the first and second stories of the building, there are a spacious basement
and attic that will be used for storage of extra equipment. Also in the basement are the steam furnace and
stoker. The basement will be used for Dr. MacConnell’s therapy treatments and for physical examinations next fall.

Davidson faculty, students, and townspeople are well proud of this handsome Infirmary, which fills a long heartfelt need on the
Davidson campus.

NEW INFIRMARY—This beautiful $25,000 building on the Concord Road has just been opened, marking the first step in Davidson College’s
Centennial Building program.

CONGRATULATIONS

DAVIDSON COLLEGE

ON ITS BEAUTIFUL NEW INFIRMARY

COMPLIMENTS OF

Hunter Electric Co.
113 West Second Street
Charlotte, North Carolina

Central Lumber Company
H. H. BAXTER, President

IVEY’S
CHARLOTTE

LEE CONSTRUCTION CO.
GENERAL CONTRACTOR
Power Building :-: Charlotte, N. C.

ATLANTIC MARBLE & TILE COMPANY
Charlotte, N.C.

W. S. ENGINEERING CORP., Engineers
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

TOOMEY BROS.
Plumbing and Heating Contractors
113 West Second Street
Charlotte, N. C.

SMITH-WADSWORTH HARDWARE CO.
428 South Tryon Street
Charlotte, N. C.

WEARN LUMBER COMPANY
Call 5191

L. B. COSTAR

New Infirmary Designed By
M. E. BOYER, JR., Architect

E. Winchester Surgical Supply Co.
Operating Lights and Tables
Castle Sterilizers
Hospital Beds
Surgical Instruments
Wheel Chairs
Crutches, Elastic Hosiery
and Invalid Special Comforts and Necessities for the sick
Telephone 4109
106 E. 7th St. — Charlotte, N. C.
