New Infirmary Completed

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA

The Davidsonian — LIBERTAS VOL. XXV

Modernized Stud Store Opens Here After Fire

Flames Destroy Interior of Campus Rendezvous During Holidays

The newly renovated Student Store, built up from the charred remains of the old store, will open tomorrow, Jan. 13,
according to Co-Manager Lawrence Reid. On Tuesday night, Dec. 21, the store caught fire, and before it was discovered, a
sizeable blaze had begun, resulting in the loss of considerable goods and property. As Jim Paltard was passing near the
store, he noticed smoke around it and, suspecting a fire, reported it at once. The night watchman entered the building
and found a smouldering blaze. Soon the fire department arrived and quickly had the blaze under control, although it had
already destroyed the interior of the building and burned the ceiling badly.

The stock in the main part of the store was a complete loss due to the blaze itself and also
the water. The showcases and other interior equipment were entirely ruined. The total damage of the fire amounted to approximately
$1,500. Insurance covered the whole building and the stock, but as is always the case, the store had to lose
about one-fourth the value of the stock, as the insurance never covers the entire value of it. No cause has
been discovered. It was first thought that mice might have begun to eat matches and (Continued on Page 4)

Artists Show Modern Work

The American Artists Group Exhibition of original etchings, woodcuts, lithographs, and stencils was on display in Chambers Building last week
and attracted much attention from students and the public. Ranging in variety from surrealistic and impressionistic to the accurate and
painstaking detail of the better etchings and lithographs, this exhibition is composed of the works of some of the most
famous contemporary American artists. This is one of twenty like it which are touring the country on regular itineraries, and
it is estimated half a million saw the exhibit in 760 places last year.

Included among the better artists whose work is in the exhibit are: Grant Wood and Paul Cadmus, to whom “Life”
has devoted some space; and Rockwell Kent, acknowledged as one of the best illustrators of today. Perhaps the most intriguing
picture of the whole exhibit was a stencil by Henry Billings, “Marine Elements,” which was what the name implies—a pleasing
arrangement of various sea-going apparatus, done in the surrealistic style. In a more easily understood and appreciated class were Agnes
Tait's two prints, “Felicity” and “Aristocrat,” remarkably life-like portraits of cats. Then Joe Jones’ “Wasteland” gave an unforgettable picture of
desolation. The peaceful Virginia countryside is captured by the brush of J. J. Lankes in “Sunday Afternoon.”

The American Artists Group was formed with the purpose of bringing the graphic arts of today to the average man
and woman, and at as low a cost as possible.

Chapel Time Changed

Chapel exercises during the examination period, Jan. 20th through 29th, will begin at 12:05 P.M. each day and last until
12:30. This is the customary time for chapel during exams every year, so that it will not conflict with either
the morning or afternoon periods. Seniors will not be required to attend chapel during the exam period. This is a
special privilege granted to seniors each year.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N.C., WEDNESDAY, JAN. 12, 1938

New Equipment Put Into Use

Using his new infirmary for a background, Dr. J. M. MacConnell tries out some of his new equipment on Professor
Avery Patton of the chemistry department. This will be one of Davidson's most valued possessions.

Views On Davidsonian Expressed By Both Praise and Constructive Criticism

Paper Honors Unsung Heroes

Committee Chosen to Recognize Deserving Students

“The Davidsonian Recognizes”—thus will be inaugurated a novel feature in the first February issue of the paper, which will continue
in the first issues of each succeeding month. “Honor to whom honor is due.” Thus, the Davidsonian will recognize each
month some man on the campus who has been an outstanding, though heretofore unrecognized, leader in campus affairs and thought.
Under the caption will appear the photograph of the month's choice for unselfish service, and a story concerning his achievements.
For the selection of the honor man for each week, an unbiased and unprejudiced student committee has been chosen, with
whom a few of the faculty members will work in the weeding out and selection of candidates. However, plans have
not been fully worked out as yet. This idea is not entirely original, having been used with success by other
college papers, but it is the staff's way of giving some recognition to those loyal but unhonored members of the
student body who have rendered some great and lasting service to the student body and college. (Continued on Page Eight)

Results of “You Be the Editor” Poll

“King for a Day” proved to be the most popular column in The Davidsonian in the recent poll of the
student body. Approximately 500 out of the 670 students, or 80 per cent of the entire student body, filled out
ballots. A large number of the faculty also voted. Running a close second to the winning column was “Question of
the Week,” which is read every week by 72 per cent of the students. The final tabulations are:

Always Occasionally Never
% % %
Local Editorials 42 53 5
With the Staff 26 59 15
Campus in Cartoon 60 35 5
Letters to the Editor 49 47 4
Around Washington 40 56 4
King for a Day 58 33 9
Take It Easy 21 45 34
Weekly Time Table 47 44 9
Film Report Card 22 46 32
1-Minute Safety Talks 81 15 4
News Stories 38 54 8
Feature Stories 34 59 7
Interviews 72 24 4
Question of the Week 45 40 15
Among the Greeks 54 40 6
The Dope Bucket 61 34 5
Sports Stories 7 20 73

Criticism Given By Student Body

What's wrong with “Davidsonian?” Aside from Chubby King’s column, the topic of “Criticism and Suggestions” proved to be the most
popular subject in the recent poll of the student body. Over 50 per cent of the ballots cast had some
suggestion as to the good or the fault of the paper. Some were humorous answers, some conscientious, some criticizing, and
others praising, but most of the answers covered topics of the following: more letters to the editor, a collegiate digest
every week, more pictures of Davidson life, and more controversial editorials. However, as a whole, the student body seemed to
have a high regard for the paper as it stands.

Want ‘Popeye’

A few of the more interesting answers to the questions are as follows: “We need a comic section—Popeye, Little Abner.”
“The Davidsonian is fine just the way it is. I only wish the Collegiate Digest would be issued regularly.” “Too
much society ‘gibberish’ for me. I think that the two or three columns are too much. Other things O.K.” “Please
send me a Davidsonian during the holidays.” “Omit Around Washington, in its place have news of interesting happenings in other
colleges.” (Continued on Page 5)

Infirmary Newspaper Plans To Sponsor Student Art

To further student interest in art, The Davidsonian plans to have a small art exhibit with contributions by amateur artists
of the student body. A prize for the best work on exhibit will be offered by Fred Smith, cartoonist and
former artist for the Magazine. Editor Dick Vowles wants all students who will enter works to communicate with him, for
unless a number of drawings are submitted, the contest cannot be held. It is hoped that work of a high
amount in oils, pencil, ink, water color, charcoal, and airbrushes will be entered. There are a number of students who
are proficient in art that are unknown to the student body. This exhibit will furnish an opportunity to view their
work.

Fine Progress Made In Fund

The Centennial gift fund, under the direction of Malcolm Lockhart, has progressed favorably in the past few months, according to
Dr. W. L. Tingle. A total of $10,000 has been contributed or subscribed since May 1, 1937, raising the total
subscribed during the campaign to approximately $245,000. Included in this figure is one large contribution of $25,000, used in the
erection of the new infirmary. Dr. Tingle stated that the next objectives will either be a new library or a
science hall; however, work will not begin on the buildings until the full amount for erection has been secured. Approximately
25 per cent of the student body have paid the first installment of their pledge, which was due on January
1, and reports show that the amount will be raised considerably before the first of next month. No time limits
or quotas are set for the fund, and the drive will be continued until more adequate funds are secured.

Swing For Dance Set

Trumpeter and His Orchestra Will Play for Mid-Winters Next Month

Mid-winters with the torrid strains of Bunny Berigan, his trumpet, and his swing band featuring Gail Reese, beautiful songstress! This
is what is in store for Davidson students.When Berigan and his band will play in the Charlotte Armory-Auditorium Feb. 11-12
at the annual Mid-winter dances sponsored by the Pan-Hellenic Council, the Council received word a few days before Christmas holidays
that contracts for signing Berigan were on the way. “Booby” president of the Council, and Wade Tarrow, who were sent
to New York recently as representatives to scout for Mid-winters band, saw Berigan when he was featured at the Paramount
Theatre with Frances Langford, songbird of the screen. Berigan is leading in the balloting in Downbeat as the most popular
trumpeter in the country, and it is not improbable that he will win out. He has had a rapid rise
to fame since he was featured with the Dorsey Brothers orchestra. He now boasts a fourteen-piece band, which combines the
tone outlines of the Dorsey Brothers and Ted Lewis. His band during the last year was prominently featured on the
Saturday Night Swing Session over the Columbia Broadcasting System. Bunny himself is a wizard at the style of obligato playing.
Berigan’s recordings for the past year have been especially popular; among the more popular are his recordings of “I Can’t
Get Started” and “Study in Brown.” This Mid-winters will be the third at which big-name bands have played. The year
before last it was Freddy Martin and last year it was Jan Garber.

In Donation Announce Results of Yuletide Drive

Results of the annual Y.M.C.A. Christmas fund drive show that some 400 students have subscribed a total of $541.00 according
to a statement made by C. Bixler, “Y” cabinet man in charge of the campaign. Of the sum promised, $138
has already been paid in, Bixler says. In the near future, collectors will start their drive to collect the rest
owed on pledges. Figures show that West dormitory leads the others this year in the number of subscribers, with a
total of 82. Watts is close behind with 81 pledges and East dormitory followed with 72. However, it is (Continued
on Page Eight)

College Librarian Dies

For Miss Cornelia Rebekah Shaw, known by three decades of Davidson students as college librarian, died December 27 at the
home of her sister, Mrs. Robert N. Page, Sr., in Aberdeen. Septic throat and heart complications were named as causes
of the passing of the Davidson librarian emeritus. Born February 3, 1867, in Mount Gilead, Miss Shaw moved to Manley
as a child. She was the youngest of the children of Peter Cornelius Shaw. Throughout her life, she participated actively
in church work and civic enterprises. Prior to coming to Davidson, she was connected with the Presbyterian Standard. When she
retired from her position as librarian in the spring of 1936, she had established a record of long service at
that post.

Began As Secretary

In 1905 her association with Davidson began when she accepted a position as secretary to President Henry Louis Smith. The
following year she was made librarian and registrar, and in this capacity, she served until 1921, when she was promoted
to head librarian. In 1930 she was honorably retired and was named librarian emeritus. Since her resignation, she has lived
quietly. This summer and fall she traveled abroad, having only recently returned. Her sister, Mrs. Page, is the only surviving
member of a once large family. Other members included her brothers, Dr. Angus R. Shaw, a well-known Charlotte minister who
died two years ago, and Judge Thomas J. Shaw, who passed away several months ago. Thad S. Page of Washington,
D.C., Bobby Page of Aberdeen, and Richard Page of Statesville are nephews surviving, and Mrs. Kate Page Biddle of Warrenton,
Va., is her niece. Angus R. Shaw, Jr., of Charlotte, is another nephew, and Dr. Kilian Shaw of New York
is a niece. Funeral services for Miss Shaw were held in the Presbyterian (Continued on Page Eight)

Berigan To Play

NO. 19 Trumpeter

Leading in the balloting in Downbeat as the most popular trumpeter in the country (above) who will play in the
Charlotte Armory-Auditorium Feb. 11-12, at the annual Mid-Winter dances sponsored by the Pan-Hellenic Council.

Dial Plan To Be Installed To Replace Old Style Phones In Davidson

The modern dial telephone system will be installed in the town of Davidson, replacing the old style magneto bell ringing
system. This change was announced Saturday by R. N. Pfaff, the Mecklenburg district manager for the Southern Bell Company. This
new installation will call for a new switchboard, and 350 new individual instruments, Pfaff said in outlining the plans. The
decision to make this change was reached by district officials after a petition had been presented signed by the town
board, and a further canvass had been taken among the local telephone subscribers as to their opinion. All voted wholeheartedly
in favor of the proposal. In addition, it was pointed out, the town being a college community, has a comparatively
unusual volume of calls. This new system will indeed be a great improvement over the present outmoded types and will
facilitate the carrying on of telephone conversations in the town. Work is to be started on the system as soon
as possible. A similar program has just been completed in the town of Cleveland, in Rowan County, and is another
link in the company's chain of such systems, Pfaff said.

College Hospital Staff Moves Into Finished Building

First Completed Centennial Project Now Ready For Use of Students

HANDSOME STRUCTURE

New Building Is Gift of Anonymous Family

Davidson's new infirmary is open for business! The college hospital staff moved into the new building last Saturday and is
now ready to accommodate patients. This handsome structure is of brick and is situated on the Concord road facing the
chemical laboratory. Its construction was recently completed at a cost of $25,000, contributed to the Davidson Centennial fund by an
anonymous family. The building is constructed in the shape of a “T” and is able to take care of as
many as twenty-five patients. The completion of the new hospital has been eagerly anticipated for the past year, since so
many improvements over the old infirmary have been vastly needed. The old infirmary was built by Dr. J. P. Munroe
as a private hospital. Later Dr. Munroe and Dr. J. B. Shearer, President of Davidson College, made a gift of
the building to the college and it was used for the College Infirmary from 1908 to 1938. Much good work
was done in the old building, but in later years, all seriously ill students were transferred to general hospitals in
nearby towns. However, it is expected that now all cases will be able to be taken care of in the
new structure, for it has the very latest of hospital equipment. The efficient staff at the new infirmary is composed
of Dr. John W. MacConnell and Mrs. Sara D. Johnson, nurse. Dr. MacConnell’s office hours are from twelve in the
morning. (Continued on Page 8)

Avon Players Give ‘Othello’

The Avon Players, under the direction of the well-known Joseph Selman, presented Shakespeare's famous tragedy “Othello” before a rather large
and appreciative audience in Chambers Auditorium on Monday evening. The players, on their eighth national tour, were making their second
appearance before a Davidson audience. Last year they played here in the Shakespearian drama “The Merchant of Venice” and were
accorded much praise for their work. Joseph Selman, himself, cast in the role of “Othello,” was undoubtedly the star of
the performance, making a marked impression on the audience with his portrayal of the last tragic Moor of Shakespeare’s immortal
play. Selman is a veteran of the legitimate stage and has spent his life in the profession, touring both America
and British Dominions and appearing with such famed players as Mary Pickford and Wallace Beery. Another Selman, however, taking the
part of the villain, Iago, was considered by many to have been the near equal to the older and more
experienced actor in the Monday evening presentation. Dorothy Miller, as Desdemona, also turned in an excellent performance, while others of
the supporting cast gave the play a brilliant finishing touch.

8,600 Copies

The Davidsonian this week is being issued to the extent of 8,600 copies. This is due to the fact that
this issue is the “Infirmary Issue.” One step of the forward drive of the Centennial Fund has been completed, and
the Davidsonian is celebrating this event in an attempt to let all contributors to this fund know that progress has
been made.
