Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Frosh Pledged By Fraternities

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

VOL. XXVI DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 1938 No. 1

Jones To Play First Set Leads Fall Services

Pan-Hellenic Council Presents Dick Jones For Opening Dances

NYA Funds In Charlotte Armory, Will Benefit

Accept Fraternity Rice, Sloan, Webb Is Point Committee

Scholarship Cup Is Won

Sherrard Rice, Perry Sloan, and Sam Webb have been chosen by Fred Stair, president of the Student Body, as members of the Point System Committee. Webb will act as chairman. These three men are representatives of the Student Council. This week they will begin work on a Point System file. By this, they and their successors in the coming years will be able to keep an accurate account of the offices and honors received by each man in the Student Body.

The amendment providing for the Point System was added to the Student Body Constitution last spring by a majority vote of the student body in favor of it.

College Band To Broadcast September 30

Dr. John A. Redhead, Jr., pastor of the Second Presbyterian Church in Charlotte, will conduct the fall services at Davidson. Dr. Redhead is well-known and liked here and a good attendance is expected at these services.

WBT To Resume Programs From Davidson Tuesday Evening

Dr. John Redhead Will Conduct Fall Services

Charlotte Pastor to Lead In Three-Day Series, Oct. 25-27

Closing Hours and Conduct Rules Unlimited

‘Polaroid’ To Elect Voters

Cheer Leaders Slated

Ballot Composed of Four Juniors Running For Office

On Wednesday, Oct. 5, 6

Furman Game

George Whee went

Students Pick

Gen. John McGeachy

Scripts ’n Pranks Holds

Registration Was CompletedPranks Hold Gala Meet By Commencement Last Spring

Male Beauty Contest and Joke Contest and Faculty Wit

If a student accepted, registration New Features For Coming Yearbook

Greater use of its energy Work Started On New Edition

Photographers to obtain information; Great Contribution Of Annual

Registrar as to the possibility Judge, Prof. Fulcher, in charge of local

Brewer, editor of the organization stated that all preliminary arrangements have been completed

Polaroid has been stated by scientists and optical authorities as the greatest contribution to artificial illumination since Edison's incandescent lamp. Only recently, he reports, Assist. Secretary of the Navy, Charles Edison, accepted a model Polaroid unit in tribute to his father’s work in lighting.

Prof. Fulcher says that this type of lighting, completely devoid of reflected glare, will be a great boon to eyesight conservation.

The pictures, taken from last commencement last spring, are near completion in the primary layout of the Quips and Cranks, the Davidson College yearbook. An editor, Jack Holland, managing editor; Julian Lokey, snapshots editor; Tom Perrin, sports editor; Mark Lillard, business manager; and division drawings should be completed by the end of the week.

A waiting list of over 100, kept during the first part of the summer, was abandoned in early August. Although the college authorities tried to keep enrollment down to 650, 14 students over this number were accepted.

It is the desire of the alumni and the school authorities to keep the enrollment to not over 600. They are doing this in order to keep Davidson a small, selective school.

Other features will include a joke contest, sponsored by the College Pharmacy; a music page, similar to the Vowles-Heilman “Notes To You” of last year. Its authors will be Walt Heilman and Paul Marion.

The same printers, engravers, and photographers have been secured. They are Observer Printing House, Charlotte; Charlotte Engraving Company, Charlotte; and Dunbar and Daniel, Photographers, Raleigh.

Plans have been made with the assistant editors: Henry Harnsberger, assistant business manager; Fred Harbin, art editor; Locke White and Gene Lipfert. (Continued on Page Six)

Bids At Close of Rush Week

Bids of Various Lodges Accepted After “Day of Silence”

Minor Changes

Davidson will continue to build up the system and make Davidson satisfactory for Christian education.