CAT-TALES By TONI CASALI WEDNESDAY, NOV. 2, 1938

Big Bill Johnston, Davidson's hefty 200-pound guard who sometimes shifts over to aid the tackle positions, has certainly clinched a position on the coming All-State selection with his game. Bill has been a standout in the Wildcat line for the past two years, but this year he has risen to greater heights. In every game this season, his fine performance in the Furman game marks him as the best guard in the two Carolinas, barring none. His slashing, bruising style of play on defense, and his ability to pull out and clear the path for ‘Cat backs when Davidson gets possession of the ball, have been remarkable. He kept Nolan, Furman end, on the ground most of the time in last Saturday's game. If Big Bill is overlooked when the time comes for All-State selections, some of those so-called sports writers had better go out and buy glasses.

Davidson's greatness lies in her line. If the small Wildcat backs were put behind a slow-charging line, they would be just out of luck. It doesn’t mean that they are not good backs, but it means that the difference between a good team and a bad team is the forward wall. Davidson has a good team. Maybe they didn’t beat Duke, Carolina, N.C. State, or South Carolina, but Davidson just isn’t supposed to beat those teams. We beat teams that represent schools with similar enrollments like Citadel, Furman, and Erskine, and the reason is that our line, led by Johnston, Captain Warden, Bob Benfield, Luke Graham, and Harry Gasteiger, is better than the average line.

That Davidson-Furman game was certainly a thriller. It looked like Davidson was going to score right after the opening kickoff, but bad breaks held them back. Then in the second quarter, Fred Stair waltzed around end and did some fancy sidestepping only to be caught on the two-yard line after he had stepped off 59 yards. Davidson just couldn’t put it over in four tries and lost possession of the ball. Furman had a good break, recovering a ‘Cat fumble deep in Davidson's territory and soon scored. Gene McEver must have told the ’Cats something nice during the half because they came back the next quarter with new life and marched to Furman’s 20-yard line without stopping. Here Tubby Hand plunged through center, stopped momentarily on the ten-yard stripe, and then drove over the double stripe. He didn’t get credit for the fine touchdown as he bled across the goal and Bob Benfield pounced on the rolling oval like a bobcat.

After this, Furman proceeded to the 20-yard line, but Davidson drove back. Bill Davis, who played an inspiring game, faded back after the kick-off and soon had the ball in Hurricane ground. He looked for a moment for a receiver in the clear and finally saw Ned Iverson, open as a cow in a pasture, and tossed the tying touchdown pass. To top the day’s thrills, Davis, who has never attempted a placement—either in practice or game, steps back and boots the pigskin over the uprights for the winning point!

Several Clemson Cadets, who go to school about 30 miles from Furman’s campus, flocked over to Davidson stands and aided the cheers greatly. In fact, they almost drowned out the Furman cheering section at times. Doc Huff, who slings sodas at the College Pharmacy, and a former member of Clemson's student body and football team, was certainly right when he said that Clemson had a fine bunch of boys in her student enrollment.

During football season, probably only a few know that a sport called Cross-Country is even in existence at Davidson. The Wildcats boast of a good team this year—in fact, last week Boo Walker and Captain Dave Woodward broke the course record at Washington and Lee. This sport takes more energy than any two things on the campus, with the possible exception of wrestling. It isn’t easy to run three or four miles every day, besides taking vigorous exercises and staying on a strict diet to get in shape for a meet. These boys are to be commended for their efforts. The meets are interesting too. A close finish, when two opposing runners, dead tired from the grueling race, put everything they have left to outrun each other in the final few yards, is as thrilling a sight as one could wish for.

LAST WEEK’S STARS:
BILL JOHNSTON—For his good work in the Davidson line against Furman’s Purple Hurricane.
FRED STAIR—His 59-yard run in the second quarter of the Davidson-Furman scrap was a neat exhibition of broken field running and gave the ’Cats the necessary spark to come back later and upset the dope bucket.
BILL DAVIS—Completed a touchdown pass to Ned Iverson that knotted the score and then proceeded to kick the extra point that meant the margin of victory. He also had a good running average—better than four yards per try.
TUBBY HAND—Played a fine defensive game and also scored Davidson’s first marker on a plunge from the 20-yard line.
BILL BOLIN—Bill backed up the ’Cat line during most of the game.

Below is printed the standings of the Inter-fraternity touch football league complete to the time that the paper went to press. Andy Dale and Bill Marquess, both Phi Delts, are leading the individual scoring thus far in the race that is about half over with 18 points apiece.

Won Lost
Phi Gam................. 4 0
Phi Delt................. 4 0
Kappa Sig............... 3 0
S.A.E.................... 3 1
Sigma Chi............... 2 1
Pi Kappa Phi........... 3 2
Beta..................... 3 2
Pika...................... 0 4
K.A....................... 0 4

Individual Scoring
Andy Dale (Phi Delt)........... 18
Bill Marquess (Phi Delt)....... 18
Ralph Stair (Phi Gam).......... 12
Jim Thomas (S.A.E.)............ 12
Bill Boyd (Phi Delt)............ 12
Tommy Yarborough (Kappa Sig).. 12
Bobby Williams (Phi Delt)...... 12

Soccer Team Splits Games
Davidson's soccer team began their season with two games, losing to Appalachian 3-1, and beating Duke 1-0. Duke brought an experienced, well-balanced team to the Wildcat lair and left with a 3-1 victory. Joe Wilson booted one through the goal early in the game to put the Cats in the lead, but the Dukes came back strong to score once in the first half and twice more in the final period. Duke looked much better than Davidson on defense and showed more polish in their attack. A return game will be played with Duke on November 30.

Thursday, Davidson squeezed out a close win over Appalachian by a 1-0 count. Joe Wilson again made the only Davidson marker. The Cats’ attack clicked much better in their second game, and they outplayed Appalachian after the first quarter. Late in the last quarter, the Mountaineers evened the count only to have the goal called back on a penalty. Davidson's next game is Thursday against High Point, whom they beat last year. Sam Berthold is the only casualty on the Cat team, which will go into the game as favorite.

Harriers Upset Generals As Course Record Falls
Captain Dave Woodward and Boo Walker, Davidson's running twins, broke another course record racing against Crocker, Washington and Lee ace, in a meet held at Lexington Saturday afternoon, October 29. They led the Wildcats to a 26-29 upset over the Generals on the hardest course in the conference.

Hitting their stride again after a week on the injured list, Woodward and Walker paced Bob Kellogg, Dick Gammon, and Bill Telford to the finish line of the four-mile course with the time of 22:45. Kellogg was in fifth position while Gammon and Telford placed eighth and tenth to complete the Davidson score. The two Murrays, Harvey, and Ragon, tallied for Washington and Lee.

The distance run in the race was extremely uneven with one entire mile on an upgrade. Davidson's fast start surprised the Generals as did their endurance over the difficult dips and rises. Chase Brenizer, Eldredge Brown, and Reid Patterson held up well in the competition although not counting in the final score.

Duke Leads In Big Five Race
Duke’s mighty Blue Devils hit the touchdown trail last Saturday against the Carolina Tar Heels and came out with a 14-0 triumph and first place in the Big Five standings for the season.

Beating Carolina broke the tie for first place the two teams have been in all season, Duke now having beaten Davidson, Wake Forest, and Carolina, with State to be played on November 19. Using Carolina’s own weapon, the forward pass, Duke scored twice, once using a pass to set up a touchdown, and intercepting another that started the second drive into pay dirt. The sell-out crowd of 35,000 saw the Duke team, at full strength for the first time this year, completely outplay their rivals from Chapel Hill, who remained in second place in the Big Five with three wins and one loss.

Frosh To Run
With one victory and one defeat behind them as the paper goes to press, the Freshman Harriers will meet the Guilford “B” next Saturday at Guilford. The probable runners are Garrow Smith, Washburn, Watt, Webb, Whitten, and Coppedge. At the beginning of the season, they licked the Davidson “B” team 22 points to the “B” team’s 38. Last Saturday, however, they were overwhelmed by the strong Carolina Frosh 15½ to 47. The results of a return meet held yesterday with the Davidson “B” were not known in time to be published. A triangular meet at Davidson on November 12 with Davidson, Guilford “B", and another team is scheduled.Lees-McRae participating will conclude the season for the Freshmen. Kittens scoring were State played V. P. I. Big Five outside the out on the short end of a 7-0 score as they were kept constantly on the defensive, with no chance for a score. (Continued on Page Six) and came in the scoring. The Wildcat harriers have now won from State by default and from Washington and Lee, losing to Duke and North Carolina. They are pointing toward two meets with Guilford on successive weekends, November 5 and 12. The Southern Conference meet will be run on November 19. Last year W. and L. placed second and Davidson a very close third in this meet, and the Wildcats expect to CAMERAS Photograph Supplies W. I. VAN NESS N. Tryon St, CHARLOTTE, N. C. [Continued on Page Six] THE HIGH SCORE OF LAST WEEK WAS SET BY BILL BOYD—148 Pitch-Patch Bowling Alleys DAVIDSON, N. C. Davidson Rallies To Score Upset Victory Over Furman Eleven Bill Davis Kicks Deciding Point After Throwing Winning Bill Johnston Stars In Cat Forward Wall Davidson's Wildcats last quarter rally last Saturday in Greenville to raze Furman’s favored House of Magic by the margin of a placement, 13-12. Bill Davis’ 14-yard pass to rangy Ned Iverson tied the game midway of the final period and Davis’ placement for the point after gave the Wildcats their winning one-point lead. Benfield: Davidson end, had Hand's fumble in the end zone for the Cats’ first touchdown. Davidson showed clear superiority in running and had a slight advantage in passing and kicking. Bill Johnston played the greatest game of a great career at guard for Davidson. In the Wildcat backfield Bill Davis played a brilliant all-round game while Steed, Hand, Stair, Bolin, and McClellan lent magnificent support. In the line, Captain Warden, Pennington, and Benfield were outstanding with Johnston. Little “Pepper” Martin shone all afternoon for the Purple Hurricane as he ran, passed, and tackled with a fury belying his 135 pounds. The heavy Furman line played good defensive football but from the secondary was ragged. Furman took a six-point lead in the second quarter as Shetley scored from the eight, after a Davidson fumble had been recovered on the 18-yard line. The Wildcats evened the count in the third quarter only to have the Baptists forge ahead again on a pass, Martin to King. The third period ended with Furman leading 12-6. It was in the fourth quarter that the Wildcats opened up a powerful running and passing attack that carried to the Hurricane 14, where Davis pitched to Iverson in the end zone. Davis’ ensuing placement won the ball game. Stair Is Best For Wildcats Fred Stair, by virtue of his 59-yard jaunt in the second period, led the Cat backs in average yardage with 18 yards per try. Bill Davis was next with 4 yards. Davidson’s total yardage was 167. They scored nine first downs to Furman’s seven. Feature of the game was Davis’ punting, which averaged 48 yards, including a 55-yard quick-kick over the safety-man’s head. Davidson's average for all kicks was 41 yards. Steed had two nice punt returns, one for 20 yards and one for 25 yards. Davis threw all of Davidson's passes and completed four for eleven. One of these was to Iverson for the tying six points. The Cats had only ten yards in penalties against them while Furman was given thirty. Benfield recovered Hand's fumble over the goal for the first six points, and Iverson made the second on which Davis converted. Many a man would have kept out of hot water had he stuck closer to cold water. The things no man can advertise successfully are the undeserved things. Plenty of people have a good aim in life, but a lot of them don't pull the trigger. The man who makes every minute count often becomes the man of the hour. So long as that which might have been isn’t, why worry your head about it? DAVIDSON SPORTS THE DAVIDSONIAN Cats Upset Furman; Point For Wofford Page Four Furman’s Downfall! Cats Favored Davis to Iverson for six points and the tying score against Furman! Davis, fading back from the Hurricane’s 14-yard stripe, flipped the ball to Ned in the end zone after finding all other receivers covered. No Furman man was near Iverson as he caught the tying pass. No. 35, of the Purple Hurricane is seen vainly coming up in the rear as the ball nestles in the tall end’s arms. (Photo by Fred Smith.) In Next Game VS. Wofford Davidson Unbeaten By Terriers In 12 Games Wofford’s Terriers will invade Richardson Field, the lair of the Wildcats, on Saturday afternoon to battle Davidson in a game that promises to be a thriller from the standpoint of the spectators. Although Wofford does not have a very impressive record behind them they have shown in their previous games that they are to be reckoned with by their opponents. They have a line that averages 180 pounds, and their offense is built around a scintillating Sophomore back, “Chink” Elias, who showed his wares last year against the Wildkittens and sparked them to a 13-6 victory in the last quarter. He will again run on Davidson ground Saturday, and he will be the main cog in the machine that the Cats will try to stop. Three Teams Are Unbeaten Three teams, the Kappa Sigs, the Phi Gams, and the Phi Delts, remained unbeaten in the fraternity touch football league during the past week's play. The Phi Gams and the Phi Delts have four wins apiece, and the Kappa Sigs have played and won three. The S.A.E.’s stayed near the top of the race by winning two games, one from the Pikas in two extra periods, 6-0, and the other from the K.A.’s also by the score of 6-0. The Kappa Sigs also won two games during the week from the Pi Kaps and the K.A.’s. They won rather decisively over the Pi Kaps by the score of 12-0. A pass from Hogg to Yarborough in the second half was the only score in the game with the K.A.’s. The Phi Gams continued their winning ways by beating the Betas on first downs 3-1. The Sig Eps were dropped from the unbeaten column on Monday when they were defeated by the Phi Delts 12-0 in the feature game of the week. Early in the first half Andy Dale dealt a blow to the Sig Eps’ spirits when he intercepted a flat pass intended for Charlie Sample and scampered 20 yards for the first score. Twelve men reported to Coach Charlie Parker for the training period of intra-mural wrestling. After three weeks of training the matches will officially begin. All boys winning in their respective classes will receive medals. The following men reported: Bob Garvey, Bernice Turnage, Victor Hollis, Jack Abernathy, W. C. Fitzgerald, Coit Robinson, B. Boy Royster, Paul Kissling, Jim Thompson, Sandy McCachern, and Bryce Dickson. Coach Parker has been getting these men in shape by means of rigorous exercises and long cross-country jaunts. Lectures on fundamentals have taken part in the training also. It is probable that future varsity material will be uncovered during this period, as this has been the case several times in the past. BEAUTIFUL PERSONAL CHRISTMAS CARDS 50 Assorted, Lovely Designs for a Dollar, Best Quality $2.00. Name inscribed on each, DAVID NICHOLS & CO. Rockmart, Ga. Always refreshing ROLLS DEVELOPED Any size roll kodak film developed, eight never-fade Velox prints for only 25¢. Valuable premiums given. Mail your films to Jack Rabbit.