e) GSS SO Y BILL MARQUESS again Look Fair Devi Chances

This would give Davidson a record of four wins and five losses in family games with seven more to go. This would practically assure the Felines of the much-coveted berth in the tournament. Two of these games are almost “in the bag,” those with Furman and South Carolina, and if the jinx would only cease to pursue his nefarious activities, we should take at least two of the remaining five contests, State, Citadel, Clemson, and two games.

Shut Up!

For a group of individuals supposed to be gentlemen, our behavior at basketball games is about the worst imaginable. It is a frequent topic of conversation among the members of the team, and they are heartily ashamed of our despicable practices of sometimes booing the officials and the opponents and of the lukewarm way in which we support them. Stay right back of the team all the time. Whether the boys are winning or losing, keep yelling for them, and when a man leaves the game, give him a big hand. The main trouble with us is that we're a bunch of bum sports and poor losers. In the Guilford game, the spectators were well-behaved because there was never any danger of our losing the game; but as soon as the going gets rough, we forget our manners.

Orchids For Fred

Seen in a well-known South Carolina newspaper: “High Lights of the Football Season (among others)—A boy named Fred Dennis playing so well for Davidson that many thought he was the great Teeny Lafferty.”

Coach McEver is working his charges hard these days in an effort to develop material to fill the gaps left by graduation. He has introduced a new shift, something like the one Carolina uses. If the Cats could only learn to use it as well as the Tar Heels did this year! Bad news: Bill Bolin may be lost to the team. He has received a second alternate appointment to West Point and hopes to be a Keydet this time next year. His bone-crushing tackles and deadly blocks would be sorely missed by the Wildcats. Bill Davis is running well in practice and may give a few opposing teams some unpleasant moments.

The editor of The Florida Alligator got a letter from a U. of Miss student asking where his baby alligators were. It developed that one of the U. of Fla. cheerleaders had promised to bring the student a baby ‘gator when he accompanied the grid team to the U. of Miss... The ‘gator infants were sent.

Wednesday, Feb 9, 1938

Cat Eleven Has Initial Scrimmage

Coaches Try New System of Backfield Shift — Snelling Looks Good

Varsity Holds First Scrimmage of Year

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Netters To Begin Play Next Month

Spring Tennis Tournament to Be Held in March; Courts Are Prepared

Captain

The varsity and freshman spring tennis tournament will be held during the first week in March. Manager Feuchtenberger said the tennis courts will be in condition within the next two weeks, so that practice may begin at once. There are many good prospects for the varsity this year. Rea Tenney won the fall tournament during the first semester, Bronston Kenney being runner-up. Harry Frampton and Jim Reinhardt both reached the semi-finals. These boys will probably repeat their wins in the spring tournament. Wilson Northeross, Lock Hunter, George Jones, and Teddy Schabel will have a hot time fighting for the fifth and sixth positions.

Southern Trip

The varsity will make a trip to Florida during the spring holidays and play South Carolina, Clemson, Furman, Georgia, Emory, Rollins, Tampa, and Florida. They also have a game with Mercer.

Capt. Bill Kiesewetter is the only senior on Coach Shepard's first string quintet. His steadiness is a big factor in the team’s success.

Not much is known yet as to the quality of the freshman team, as they have not had enough time to show their true talent. Miller Sproull was runner-up in the fall tournament. Marshall Foote and Jack Spainhour entered the semi-finals. We also expect to see a lot of Billy Turner this year. Joe Craver and Esmond Bailey, although they didn’t fare so well in the fall tournament, will probably get a place on the team. They got much experience in tournaments last year.

Manager Feuchtenberger requests that no one play on the courts while they are being worked on, as it will not only hurt the courts but also delay their readiness.‘Delay the work,’ said Craver and Coe. Fate has a decision to make. In Win An (I’ve) und classes, Craver and Bai came through with consistent wins to tie the score up through matches. Davidson's fine quintet swamped the Quakers from Guilford College on the Davidson court last Friday night, 55-16. Jim Cowan alone scored enough points to beat the weak Quakers as he racked up 18 points. Coach Shepard started his regular five of Ned Iverson, Johnny Tice, Jim Cowan, J. D. Hicks, and Bill Niesewetter. With “Footsie” Cowan in fine fettle, this aggregation jumped into an early lead in the first half, and a new Wildcat team came on the floor composed of Wade Barrow, Lawrence Reid, Dan Iverson, Bill Boyd, and Benny Harrison. With the speedy Boyd showing the way, the second five lengthened the lead and were on top at the half by a 32-8 margin. The entire squad of fourteen men was registered in the score column; Hicks and Boyd were runners-up with seven points each respectively. Cloyd, McDaniel, and Edmundson finished out the SPE quintet. Both teams looked rather ragged as neither has had much practice. The game was rather rough with a good many fouls.

The Harvard freshmen have petitioned university authorities to replace the young chambermaids who make up rooms with older women. The young maids are too “giddy,” talk and sing too frequently while at work, disturbing the students at their studies too much.

Bowling! Billiards! REX RECREATION —and— 20th CENTURY BOWLING AIR-CONDITIONED YEAR ROUND FREE TELEPHONE

One of the features of the game was the play of Boyd and Harrison, substitute guards, who turned in fine performances. The Gobbler matmen offered one of the best freshman wrestling teams in the conference, but all the matches were fast and unusually good.

We wish fat girls would depend on their dispositions to get by and quit worrying about their figures.

Sweets for the Sweet Valentine Candies at All Prices WHITE DRUG STORE DAVIDSON, N. C.

Carolina and North Carolina State have practically clinched berths in the annual Southern Conference basketball tournament. Davidson's Wildcats are now in tenth place, and should they gain a place in the tournament, they would have to put on a sustained winning streak for the rest of the season. Eight other teams are also bunched together in the struggle for the six other places. They are: Citadel, Duke, Washington & Lee, Maryland, Virginia Tech, Clemson, Richmond, and Wake Forest. Carolina, by virtue of eight wins against only one conference defeat, stands on top of the loop with the N.C. State Terriers running a close second.

In the race for top scoring honors, Jim Waller, sensational Wake Forest forward, moved to the top of the heap with a total of 101 points to date. Trailing Waller is Bill Mann, N.C. State forward, with 94 points; Jim Cowan, lanky Davidson center, has moved down the line considerably to seventh place. However, Cowan has played one game less than the loop leaders. Waller, although leading the scoring, does not lead in the field goal department. Norton, Maryland star, has collected 37 baskets from the court, while Waller has tossed in 33. Waller’s lead is made possible by the fact that he has made good 35 free tosses to Norton’s 14.

Putting the “Glow” in “Glorious” THERE will be lots and lots of Davidsonians who are going to use extravagant language and describe this weekend as “glorious.” We're inclined to bet that you'll be one of ’em — and we hope so. However, Cowan has played one game less than the loop leaders. Waller, although leading the scoring, does not lead in the field goal department. Norton, Maryland star, has collected 37 baskets from the court, while Waller has tossed in 33. Waller’s lead is made possible by the fact that he has made good 35 free tosses to Norton’s 14.

MERRY ROMANCE IN SWING It'll be no ordinary weekend, this—what with the dance and everything. And Hotel Charlotte is resolved to do everything it can to help work it up to the level which brings forth adjectives like “glorious.” Are your plans all made? Are you set? Come on and let’s get it under way!

HOTEL CHARLOTTE

The best time for loving...!

PAUL & CRYMES, Inc. - - Sporting Goods - - 415 South Tryon St. Grace MOORE Charlotte, N.C. Melvyn DOUGLAS “I’LL TAKE ROMANCE”

TODAY’S POPULAR SPORT BOWLING! On Saturday Nights—or any other night—take her out to bowl. She'll like that! Take her where she'll feel at home.

Balcony Mon. THE HEALTH THEATER Tue. CHARLOTTE BOWLING CENTER Charlotte's Most Popular 12114 South Tryon 112 W. First St.