Page Two — The Davidsonian — Founded By the Class of 1915

1937 1938 Member Associated Collegiate Press Distributor of Collegiate Digest

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY National Advertising Service, Inc. College Publishers Representative 420 MADISON Ave New York, N.Y. Chicago -
Boston - Los Angeles - San Francisco

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879

BILL MARQUESS................. Editor-in-Chief
CHARLES MOORE................. Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
Terrell Porter.................. Assistant Editor
Jack Abernathy................. Managing Editor
Erle Austin..................... Managing Editor
Jack Holland................... Managing Editor
Karl Hudson.................... Managing Editor
Sam Spencer.................... Managing Editor
Tom Casali..................... Sports Editor
Ovid Bell....................... Associate Editor
Joe Calvin...................... Associate Editor
Wesley Coghill................. Associate Editor
Perry Sloan..................... Associate Editor
Movie Editor...................
Henry Baker.................... Staff Photographer
Walt Kunz...................... Staff Photographer

BUSINESS STAFF
Wesley Coghill................. Advertising Manager
John Latimer................... Assistant Advertising Manager
Bill Miller..................... Assistant Advertising Manager
Andy Turner.................... Circulation Manager
Terrell Porter................. Circulation Manager
Sam Hemphill.................. Assistant Business Manager

Co-Operation...
As the scholastic year draws rapidly to a close, our new officers have been elected and cast upon a stormy
sea of student government. At present there is no sea of doubt, no very tangible horizon, ideals are still being
dreamed of, realities have hardly begun to crowd them into the background. All students have dreams and plans. Student leaders
with added responsibilities must acquire more dreams and plans as well as execute them. When they cease to look to
the future, when they cease to plan ahead, student government will go into a decline, for no living thing can
exist in the past or present alone and maintain its standing. It must live on the future.

During the coming year, student officers will become so swamped with endless, seemingly trivial, details that they will forget and
not have time to plan for what lies beyond that ever-shifting horizon. They will lose perspective. They alone cannot carry
both duties - doing and dreaming. They must be helped and relieved, or their doing will not be done and
their dreaming will become nightmares. And, as Watson Street pointed out last week in chapel, it is not always the
Pauls, the ODK men, who perform the greatest service and so do the most good, but the Epaphrodituses, the followers
and doers, are cogs in the machine that cannot be replaced.

This Is What Spring Did to the Editor...
WHAT DID IT DO TO YOU?

The Ever Present Frosh...
It has been recently suggested by a few members of the student body that the class spirit and consequently the
school spirit of the freshmen might be improved by putting all of them in East and West Dormitories, separating them
from the rest of the student body. A neighboring institution is planning to make a change of this kind next
year. When the move was announced the Dean made this statement: “To improve the fellowship, orientation, study conditions, and in
general to strengthen the ties of the freshman class, the move to put all freshmen in one dormitory was passed."
There are, no doubt, other reasons for making this change in the minds of the administration of that school. They
hope to make a more cosmopolitan group - let them grow up together - allow them to cope with their
own problems to a greater extent than formerly. An outstanding feature of the Davidson campus is its cosmopolitan flavor and
we firmly believe that if a move like this were ever made here, something irreplaceable would be lost. The greatest
benefit that an underclassman gets from college is the contact with men older, wiser, more experienced than he. The only
way we can learn to be leaders is to study those who go on before us and try to transplant
to ourselves their best qualities.

Three Birds--One Stone...
Bob Crosby's orchestra played at four Duke dances recently for $2,000. Its booking agent said the orchestra would have gladly
played a whole week at Duke, State, and Carolina, combined, for $4,000. And now UNC's Daily Tar Heel is insisting
that economy would work with other orchestras. The editor of that publication writes that one could be hired from Saturday
through Saturday, Carolina and State having weekend dances, and Duke a midweek dance, for example. At the next set, the
order could be reversed. Popularity of having the same orchestra at each school, with its attendant money-saving, depends on dancers’
psychology. W. M. Upchurch, Jr., Duke's orchestra booker, says students there always respect Carolina's selection of dance bands and that
they wouldn't mind at all having one right after the Tar Heels. Upchurch, who hopes for such a system some
day, argues that disadvantages of occasional midweek dances would be offset by a popular reduction of dance fees, elimination of
conflicting Carolina-Duke dance dates, a lowering of Carolina-Duke friction, and the possibility of greater prestige (maybe week-long national hook-ups) by
having a big band in the neighborhood an entire week. Such a plan sounds plausible. Of course, there are many
rough edges, but perhaps they could be smoothed off and the idea put into working order. It might be something
for our incoming Pan-Hellenic Council to work on. Certainly nobody would kick if the price of set tickets were cut
down!

Around Washington
By MARVIN COX (Associated Collegiate Press Correspondent)

Capital college students and residents combined to make this week one of the hottest politically in decades. Citizens of Washington
do not have the right to vote for their officials, they are governed by appointees and their laws are passed
by Congress. Naturally, thousands of voteless D.C. residents bitterly resent the fact that they are disfranchised. So, this week, they
made an attempt to do something about it. Saturday a plebiscite was held on the question of District suffrage. The
votes have no official standing, and the election was called merely to demonstrate the fact that D.C. residents really want
to vote. While the papers have been urging the people to vote in the only election the District has had
in years, George Washington University students meantime held their first election under a new constitution which increases the authority of
student officers. The two elections, coming within the same week, have given the Capital more politics than it has had
in decades. Elections at George Washington are usually bitterly contested and this was no exception. And the torchlight parades and
other demonstrations of the voteless D.C. residents made it appear that they were about to elect a President of the
United States.

An unusual field day was held this week at one of the colleges in the Capital area, the University of
Maryland. Among the events was a milking contest and wild steer ride, and other demonstrations incidental to the 5th annual
Vocational Education Field Day of the Future Farmers of America. Maryland is said to be the second oldest agricultural college
established on the North American continent and this phase of college work is greatly emphasized there.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Campus in Cartoon

LAST HURDLE: FORREST “SPEC” TOWARK, INTERNATIONAL HURDLE CHAMPION, WAS MARRIED AT THE FINISH LINE ON THE CINDER TRACK OF THE
UNIVERSITY OF GEORGIA STADIUM.

THE INFIRMARY AT REED COLLEGE, PORTLAND, ORE. IS NAMED QUIETT INFIRMARY IN MEMORY OF A STUDENT.

From Campus to Campus
(By Associated Collegiate Press)

Schenectady, N.Y.—Union College students have streamlined their undergraduate governing system. By a vote of the student body, undergraduates have adopted
a new constitution that provides for functional and proportional representation, petition, referendum, and recall. The new constitution provides for a
student council form of government, in which eleven councilmen are to be elected by extra-curricular organizations supported by student tax,
twenty-five elected on the basis of one for each forty students, four class presidents, and a student tax committee chairman.
Faculty coordinator of student activities will advise but not vote in the council.

Washington, D.C.—The nation’s highest tribunal, the U.S. Supreme Court, will soon tell the nation whether or not football is an
educational activity that comes under the heading of an essential governmental function. The State of Georgia and its two state
institutions, the University of Georgia and Georgia School of Technology, together with fourteen other state universities, are asking the court
to rule against the federal admissions tax for athletic contests sponsored by state institutions. The U.S. Attorney General's office holds
that “We hazard the statement that the members of the Constitutional Convention would doubt that twenty-two men playing a game
with a ball constitute an essential government function.” The defendants hold that public education is a government function and that
holding athletic contests is an integral part of the public education program.

New York City—A new experiment in municipal government research has been instituted here by Mayor Fiorello H. LaGuardia and this
city’s municipal educational institutions. Under a new plan announced last week, students in the city’s colleges will be trained for
civil service careers by doing undergraduate research in the various policy-forming departments of the city government. “These studies and surveys
will be of a research, rather than an investigative nature,” the sponsors of the plan announced. “Students of marked ability
and interest will be appointed as research associates on theStaff of the Department of Investigation to serve during the duration
of their projects as volunteer assistants without compensation, but with full credit for their work by college authorities. “The purpose
of such studies will be the framing of constructive recommendations to the various municipal department heads.”

East Lansing, Mich.—Next fall's Michigan State College freshmen will arrive on the campus all ready oriented to the early part
of college life—at least they will be if they listen to a new series of radio programs the college is
sponsoring. The programs, broadcast over WKAR this month, will tell them all about registration, payment of fees, and other formalities
necessary for enrollment in the class of ‘42. This is believed to be the first time radio has been used
to instruct freshmen before they arrive on the campus.

Ithaca, N. Y.—A collegian’s program for righting many of the ills of the nation was formulated by Cornell, Dartmouth, and
University of Pennsylvania students in conference here to discuss ways and means of “Making Democracy Work.” After considerable discussion, the
delegates favored: Governmental endorsement of labor's right to organize and bargain collectively and endorsed the National Labor Relations Act principles.
Economic sanctions against aggressors of democratic nations. For local governments, the elimination of unnecessary offices, consolidation of duties, and consolidation
of unnecessarily small governmental units. Control of competition for some industries, and removal of monopolies for others, and governmental regulation
of utilities. The delegates voted down the extension of government control of the press.

“It’s a good thing graduates get a sheepskin when they leave school for they will need an extra skin when
they get out in the struggle of real life.” An Alabama Polytechnic Institute student newspaper editorial columnist makes an old
saw into a cutting remark.

WEDNESDAY, MAY 11, 1938

King For A Day. CHUBBY KING with regret—developments in the janitorial situation—Hujohn, Clint, and Honey canned after fifteen or twenty
years of service. It would be overly impertinent for the students to stick their noses into somebody else's business (the
college does the hiring and firing), but the prevailing student opinion is that the three janitors got a rough deal,
and that something should be done about it. Students rooming upon the halls which these three served have been questioned
and no objections to the service were found, rather indignation and rage were the principal answers. After an employer keeps
an employee for fifteen years, with the latter leading the same private life throughout those years, it seems unjust that
suddenly the employer should take offense at acts which he has known have existed throughout the extremely long period during
which the employee has rendered satisfactory service. Though the students are not in an authoritative position, they certainly are qualified
to determine the competency of those who wait upon them, and their opinion favors the discharged janitors.

A party at Poss McLean’s farm with Big Boy Bailey Williams carrying off all the honors—with his huge brawny arms
he pushed poor little Marchant aside and took over the lynching, and later tackled bigger game when he ousted Maudling
Mathis from his sofa superiority. Buddy Roe Powell receives a setback with “Take that, etc.” Press Convention in Charlotte the
past weekend with customary censored results. Since I was there, I omit the details, but others present who indulged in
the orgy were Tonissen, Hillard, Dorsett, Harkey, Bell, Reid, Kunz, Vowles, Rybyrn, and Brewer. Two features of the convention were
the five indescribables, the unceasing chase after an elusive key. 9 Kappa Sigs at Pauley’s. Ross and Hudson stuck on
the beach at 3 AM, and very angry. Billy Rainey entered the front, left White there, and exited through the
back in Scott Cooper’s car. Cigarette ducks flavored with a bit of salt and pepper on Ed Glenn reclined immovable
in a stickless cot. Hunk and Pitt satisfied with the date swap. At Myrtle with the Pi Kappa Phis. Why
was Ken Lawson so embarrassed when he woke up Saturday morning? Billy Masters with the cooperating date found it necessary
to call in a snake—Mister Cunningham, who gladly filled in that capacity. SPE party at Kings Mountain. Kunz really got
snapped this time and did a bit of snapping on his own also—very late Saturday night. Broadway and Lyon, in
a foot race Sunday—the stake won the neck encircling prize. KA very uncommunicative about their little spree, but I understand
that Bill Rader somewhat apprehensive about the faring of their mutual girl this time with Joe Bailey. Miscellaneous Mush: Why
has Black Dog gone completely anti-Salem? Carnegie spent some dark moments with a Croatan lady. Tripod to Junior-Senior at Winthrop—“I
wonder if the Cooke sends corsage to NC lass but no date when he arrives.” Ed Jackson and 2 Crooks
at college prom—after leaving his lady love, Crook ran into wild untamed beauty kept him out till four AM. Joe
Kellam pleasantly yellow dogged by Ken Lawson—do ya get it? Toby Conyers thrown into the lake on SPE party with
his pajamas on. Abie Conner in another “short time” job with Miss Mary. Lipfert—if the whistle blows, she quits.

Students’ Aid Being Fought

Additional federal funds for aid to college students and other young people that were recommended in the President's recent recovery
message to Congress will not be forthcoming without a battle. Determined opposition to additional spending has developed among members of
Congress, and with a number of administration opponents planning the strategy, it will require skillful handling on the part of
administration leaders to put through the program. There is no particular fight on the funds for youth, but as a
part of the whole spending program they are being opposed. Some parts of this relief-recovery drive may be eliminated by
Congress. This is the consensus of informed opinion, but it seems likely that WPA funds, out of which the youth
funds are allocated, will be appropriated. However, the group that has opposed the President on the Court Fight last year
and the more recent reorganization bill is whetting its knives for some additional Presidential blood, figuratively speaking, of course.

Casque and Casket is the name of the interfraternity relations board at the University of New Hampshire.

The University of California medical school is planning a summer camp for diabetic children.

The University of Newark, organized in July 1934, is believed to be the youngest university in the United States.

It's open season on guest columnists, so in we go to pinch hit for easy-going Walter Rutledge Miller, carrying with
us a supreme consciousness of our own unworthiness. Take heart, lads, it's only temporary. No personalities, just plain ole writin’,”
he says. So here's a try.

CHURCH TIME REVERIE—Tolling bells call us from thoughts of Jack Benny; his silly patter. An unusual bevy of girls tonight
and the usual craning of necks. The soft lights of thy setting sun never seem quite right somehow. One earnest
falsetto behind sounds out a little louder than all the rest. That organ seat looks more uncomfortable than any we
ever saw. Vacant seats, nodding dead men, others more alive perhaps. And after it’s over—lingering conversations, rehashing the weekend.

OF ROCK BREAKERS AND CUTS AND THINGS—High time someone panned our rock breakers whose prodigious labors are common campus talk.
Masters of the art of doing little or nothing gracefully they are. Perhaps the WPA could use them as efficiency
experts. Marshall Davidson's no-cut record has been bettered by far. Word comes that Jack Abernathy hasn't cut for two years
now, which we think sets something of a goal for the rest of us to shoot at. Or is life
that bad after all? Two of the good boys seen on hoof a mile the other side of our neighboring
city the other morning at nine o'clock. Patients are expected to recover. Mother’s Day telegrams are triter than anything.

ON INSTITUTIONS AND SUCH—Two institutions: Front porch sitting and the Tavern. On front porches we hear those three topics that
young men are wont to discuss—plus a thousand others. Purely spring-time diversion, its contagion spreads to even the best of
us. In the Tavern meet face to face the forces of Fascism and Bolshevism. No school is without its exponent
there, and none of them are loath to argue, however long and heatedly, for their views. A true crossroads, something
of a spirit of informality and mellow good friendship that exists nowhere else. There met even CIO and AFL—both came
off unscathed.

LAST BUT BY NO MEANS LEAST—Conclusion: The lot of a columnist is not an easy one. People peeking over our
shoulder is the pet phobia—terribly distracting. Then the question of inspiration is a vexing one—an hour without a gleam amidst
all sorts of pert diversions. If we could only find that joke book, we might be able to do something
about it. Somehow the mood right now isn’t conducive to wit, granted we're capable of such things. So when worse
comes to worst we can always sign off. With thanks then to those of you who have read our banter,
we leave you, bidding an adieu, and expressing a hope that we may come back sometime.
