Masquers Present October Production

Z528 ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

The Mavidsonian

Colonel Armstrong Receives Promotion

VOL. XXVI DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 12, 1938 No. 4

R.O.T.C. Leader Gets Davidson Position; Takes Colonelship

Colonel Frederick M. Armstrong Succeeds Lt. Col. John Rhett

COMES FROM ARIZONA

Colonel Started as Buck Private in 1905

Lieut.-Col. Frederick M. Armstrong, Davidson College’s new professor of Military Science and Tactics, has been appointed a full colonel of
infantry by the United States Army, it has been announced. Colonel Armstrong came to Davidson this summer from Arizona to
succeed Lieut.-Col. John Rhett, who was transferred to a post in New York. His promotion was announced Oct. 1.

Fails at Appointment

After failing to win a coveted appointment to West Point, Col. Armstrong enlisted at the Statue of Liberty in New
York harbor in 1905 for service in the Signal Corps of the Army. Two years later he was in Cuba,
helping suppress an armed revolt. Upon his return from Cuba in 1908, Col. Armstrong won a competitive examination for a
commissioned appointment in the Philippine Scouts. At the age of 24 he was commissioned a second lieutenant, and since that
time he has passed rapidly through the various grades subordinate to the rank of colonel. Returning from the war in
1920 as a major, he was the commanding officer of the troops on the U. S. A. T. Thomas.

Sees Many Lands

Colonel Armstrong has seen a variety of lands during his army career. Besides serving in Cuba and the Philippines, he
has fought against hostile Moro tribes in the South Seas. Since returning from the war, he has served in Oklahoma,
Kansas, New York, and Arizona. From the last named place, where he remained for ten years, he was transferred to
Davidson to take up his new duties here.

Magazine Has New Sections

Miss Ella Keen Steel To Write On Masculinity

Rut Miller, editor of the college magazine, has announced that the first edition of Scripts 'n Pranks will be published
around November 1st. This issue will continue to feature many of last year’s departments, such as publishing candid camera snapshots
of familiar faces about the campus, and in addition several new sections have been incorporated. Miss Ella Keen Steel has
decided to favor the first issue with an article, wherein she will no doubt set forth her views upon masculinity
in general. Miss Ginger Rogers, another featured artist of the same issue, has not yet sent her final decision upon
masculine beauty, but Editor Miller expects mail from Hollywood daily.

Several new poetic geniuses have flashed across the literary horizon in the persons of Dave McLean, Bob Ramsey, and Ed
Morrow. Their poems should form an important part of the magazine’s more serious section.

The forthcoming issue will contain, declares (and hopes) Miller, a true life photo-flash picture of the culprit or culprits, ascending
the water tank. This flash was taken by mechanical means and every line of the faces are clearly visible. Should
the Court of Control fail to apprehend the perpetrators, Editor Miller will be glad to solve the mystery on November
1st.

“Know yourself,” says the philosopher. Yes, but who is going to introduce us?

Annual Photogs Start Monday

Photographs for the Davidson College Year Book will be taken next week, starting Monday and going through Friday, with Dunbar
and Daniel of Raleigh doing the work. Mark Lillard, in the schedule, requested cooperation from the students in that they
be prompt in responding to calls for sittings. “If this is done,” he stated, “retakes can be made of pictures
not turning out well.” The times were given thus: 9:00 till 12:00 A. M.; 1:00 till 6:00 P. M. and
7:00 till 9:00 P. M. every day. The order has not been decided yet, but it is definite that the
seniors will go first, with group and faculty pictures coming at the same time.

Wildkittens To Organize Club

Will Give More Publicity And Honor to Freshman Athletics

An innovation in the form of a Numeral Club for men winning their numerals in freshman sports has been proposed
to the D Club and will be voted upon in their next regular meeting on Oct. 17. The D Club's
constitution states that every motion shall remain on the table one week before passing, otherwise the new club would undoubtedly
have been sanctioned last Monday. The Numeral Club will fill a great need on the Davidson campus in that it
will give more publicity and recognition to participants in freshman sports.

D Club Supervises

The D Club expects to supervise the new organization in its function as the fraternity which draws from the ranks
of varsity athletics. A constitution and set of by-laws have been accepted by the D Club which places the Academic
committee in an advisory capacity to the Numeral Club. Also provided is that the treasurer of the D Club will
handle the finances of the new group. Membership in the Numeral Club will be retained by students until they receive
bids to the D Club, when they automatically become inactive. Upperclassmen who have made their numerals in past years will
be eligible at the fall initiation which will also be in the hands of the D Club.

Works With Beavers

The Numeral Club will work in conjunction with the Beaver Club in extending a cordial welcome to freshmen or high
school teams visiting the campus. The committee from the D Club which will act in an advisory capacity has Dave
Woodward as its chairman with Boo Walker and Bill Hick as members.

Military Head Promoted

In his promotion on October 1, 1938 from Lieutenant-Colonel to Colonel, Col. Frederick M. Armstrong culminates an adventurous army career.
He began as a private in 1905 and advanced through the years to positions in Cuba, the Philippines, Kansas, New
York, the South Seas, Oklahoma, and Arizona. He succeeds Lieut-Col. John T. Rhett.

Final Plans Discussed At Meeting of Council

Dramatists Committee Named Give Plays October 27

Red and Black Masquers Are To Present Three One-Act Plays

The Red and Black Masquers will open their season Thursday, Oct. 27 at 8:30, with the presentation of three one-act
plays, according to Ed Morrow, president of the organization. “The Man in the Bowler Hat,” a comedy by A. A.
Milne, will have the following cast: the hero, D. C. Colvin; the heroine, Virginia Hood; the villain, Dick Cobb; the
bad man, Jim Currie; the Man in the Bowler Hat, Warren Gaw; Mary, Tom McLean.

“The Valiant,” by Hall and Middlemass will have a cast consisting of: Father Daly, Monroe Bush; Wilson, the jailor, Paul
Crane; Dan, a jailor, Boyd Flynn; the hero, Dick Hudson; Warden Holt, Charles McArthur.

O'Neil’s “Where the Cross is Made” will have a cast including: Sue, Susie Jackson; Nat, Apple Bartlett; Ken McIntyre; the
Doctor, Shaw Smith.

All three plays of which the last two are tragedies, are under the direction of E. J. Erwin of the
faculty and Ed Morrow of the Red and Black Masquers. Ken McIntyre is stage mechanic and the scenery and decorating
will be handled by Gordan Horton. Tickets will go on sale Monday, Oct. 17. All seats are reserved. The last
two rows in the junior and senior section will be reserved for the faculty.

Committee On Decorations Promises Something New And Different

Last Thursday evening the Pan-Hellenic Council held their final meeting and made some last-minute preparations for the coming dance to
be held on October 21-22. Tickets for the dances which will be held in the Charlotte Armory Auditorium, are now
on sale and the price has already been determined by the council. Other details of the event were determined at
this meeting.

Louis Hipp, chairman of the committee on decorations, states that the definite scheme to be followed in decorating the Armory
has not yet been decided. However, the committee promises the student body something very novel and different this year.

The set plans for the dances will consist of a formal dance Friday evening, and Saturday there will be an
informal night dance. The Collegians, as announced, will furnish the music. The dances will honor the visitors from Chapel Hill
since the North Carolina-Davidson game will be played on Saturday, October 22.

Corrections Made to Students’ Directory

Due to the fact that errors were made in the student directory and that students have changed their rooms, we
wish to print a few corrections for your convenience: N. J. Aarseth (1), 9 South; R. B. Benfield (4), 307
East; J. P. Burnett, 9 Rumple; T. M. Dunn (3), 308 East; T. Fry (3), 26 Rumple; A. F. Lytch
(3), 308 East; A. L. McAuley (2), 208 Watts; G. W. Shannon (1), 1 North; Marvin Sink (1), 413 East;
D. Vosbergh (1), 302 West; Ivan Wetmore (1), 13 South; D. V. Rhea, 7 North; W. M. Houston (4), 106
West.

College Officials To Convention

Dr. Lingle, Professor Bailey Represent Davidson

During the coming weeks three important educational meetings will be held in the states of North Carolina and Virginia, which
will be attended by members of the Davidson faculty.

The first meeting of the kind will be the Regional Conference which will be held in Richmond, Va., on October
21-22. Professor Johnson, assistant to the president, will attend from Davidson. An extensive program has been planned for the representatives.

The second educational meeting will be the annual meeting of the North Carolina College Conference which will be held at
the O. Henry Hotel, Greensboro on October 26-27. This is composed of representatives of all college faculties in North Carolina
and by representatives of the state department of education.Davidson College - The weekend will prove to be one of the
social highlights of the fall. Last night between 9:15 and 9:30 o'clock, visitors from several states were expected. For the
next two weeks, the program will last for fifteen minutes, and after that, they will be presented for thirty minutes
each week. A commercial program’s contract will expire at the end of the month, thus making the thirty-minute program possible.

Judge Calls Court Meeting
The freshman Court of Control was called together in an emergency meeting last Monday morning by Judge Julian Squires to
deliberate on the recent painting of the Davidson town water tank. At the time The Davidsonian was going to press,
Judge Squires would not publish any statement regarding the action the court expects to take to discover the culprit. Last
year’s class numerals of the freshman class were painted on the tank a year ago, and this group was campused
by Judge William Kiesewetter. The painter, however, was never discovered. The campus penalty will probably also be inflicted on the
entire class again this year unless the culprit is discovered. The numbers “42” were first seen on the tank last
Monday morning painted in large red numerals.

The freshmen had their first taste of discipline on the evening of October 4, when Judge Squires called his first
regular meeting of the Court of Control. Meeting in the Philanthropic Literary Hall, the Court tried and convicted three cases.
Two members of the freshman class were convicted for not wearing their rat caps, and a third received punishment for
refusing to carry laundry for upperclassmen. The Court sentenced the first group to a one-week campus, and the last freshman
was sentenced to ten days.

Thane McDonald announced last night’s program, which consisted of a presentation of music by the Davidson Symphonic Band, conducted by
James Christian Pfohl. The usual time was allotted to a resume of the news of the college campus. The complete
program follows: “O, Davidson!” Shields; “Daughters of Texas,” Sousa; “Lustpiel Overture,” Kela-Bela; News of the Campus; “University of South Carolina
Alma Mater;” “La Golondrina,” Waltz by Serradell; Hymn, “Abide With Me,” Monk; and “O, Davidson!”

You must realize in business that the price paid can be judged only in relation to the value secured. When
our own character will not defend us, explanations will not vindicate.

Representatives of the State Department of Education will be attended by a number of Davidson professors. In Durham on November
2-3 in the Washington Duke Hotel, the Fourth Annual meeting of the Southern University Conference will be held. Dr. Lingle
plans to represent Davidson College at this gathering. Davidson is a member of all three of these organizations.

To Honor Records In Academic Work
Davidson Visited By Dr. Albert R. Mann
Dr. Albert R. Mann paid a visit to Davidson last Thursday and made a general inspection of the college. Dr.
Mann is the vice president of the General Education Board in New York City. During the past 30 years, the
board has invested one half of a million dollars in Davidson College. In view of the fact that the board
has made such a large investment in Davidson, Dr. Mann came to pay a friendly visit and made a study
of how the college works in the educational and financial departments. A luncheon was given for him in the banquet
hall of Chambers and was attended by college officials. Mr. Jackson conducted him throughout the college.

Cook Talks On “The Price of Finding Christ”
The pastor of the Presbyterian Orphanage at Barium Springs, Rev. Mr. Cook’s message centered around the story of the rich
young ruler found in Matthew 19. This, he said, is one of the saddest stories of the entire Bible, the
young ruler, willing to pay the price, and turning away in sorrow. It was strange that the ruler came at
all to seek a better life. He had wealth, almost everything the world could offer him, youth, power, courage, and
education. One thing which he did lack, however, was a “right relation to Jesus Christ.” The story brings out two
important facts. First, there is nothing in this world which satisfies the hunger of the heart besides Jesus, and second,
there is a vital necessity for a rebirth.

Consecrate Ourselves
Rev. Mr. Cook then brought out the fact that we need to “rightly relate ourselves” with Jesus. In explaining the
expression “rightly relate ourselves,” he referred to Paul's statement in Romans 12, which states that we should “present our bodies
as a living sacrifice.” In conclusion, Rev. Mr. Cook gave two reasons why we should “rightly relate ourselves.” The first,
he said, is a selfish motive—what a right relation means to one’s self. The second reason is “because of the
love of God.”

Men have done wonders without hands, without feet, without eyes, but without brains, they are helpless.

Dr. Burrows To Speak Here
“Digging Up the Past in Palestine” will be the subject of a lecture to be delivered here on Monday, Nov.
28, by Dr. Millar Burrows, president of the American Schools of Oriental Research. The lecture will deal with significant facts
uncovered by archaeological research in the Holy Land. Many of these discoveries confirm points which have been the cause of
much dispute. The subject is considered an unusually timely one, as 1938 marks the hundredth year of archaeological investigations in
Palestine. Smacking of the romance of buried centuries and lost civilization, the talk should be an authoritative one, for Dr.
Burrows is one of the foremost men in his field today. Special stress will be laid by the lecturer upon
important discoveries made since the World War, which have thrown light on hitherto obscure pages of the Bible and secular
history as well. The American School of Oriental Research, of which Dr. Burrows is president, is a corporation supported by
some sixty American colleges, universities, and seminaries. The group includes Princeton, Yale, Duke, and other well-known universities, as well as
Jewish and Catholic schools.

Barium Springs Pastor Speaks
The Reverend Thomas Cook was the speaker of last Sunday’s vesper services in Chambers auditorium. His evening talk centered around
the story found in Matthew 19.

Group of Five Professors to Write Up Achievements in Scholarship
WRITINGS CALLED FOR
Statements to Be Issued From Time to Time
At a recent meeting, Davidson College named five of its members to serve for the rest of the present session
as a Committee on Productive Scholarship. Those chosen are Professors W. P. Cumming, C. G. Davidson, W. L. Porter, E.
F. Shewmake, and G. R. Vowles. The general aim of this committee is to encourage productive scholarship at Davidson in
every possible way. There are several professors at Davidson who have contributed quite a great deal of material for the
betterment and advancement of their respective subjects. Insofar as there is no record of the combined contributions of the present
or past professors of Davidson, the faculty has decided to have a permanent record kept of all the scholarly works
of the professors. A notice has already been sent to all members of the faculty calling for lists of their
published writings, including books and scholarly articles. When these lists have been handed in, a full bibliography of the faculty
will be compiled. The committee will also issue statements from time to time concerning any scholarly works that may be
completed and published by Davidson professors between now and the end of the academic year.

Board Meets To Lay Plans
The first Board of Publications meeting of the year held its meeting Monday afternoon to discuss plans for the future
of the three Davidson College publications. The board discussed plans for the future of The Davidsonian, The Scripts ’n Pranks,
and The Quips and Cranks. Tentative plans were made, but these plans will not be voted upon until the next
meeting. Plans were also discussed as to a new method of financing the future editions. The board is revised yearly
with Bill Jackson, Rut Miller, Bill Marquess, and Professor Brewer as members. Bill Marquess is president, and Rut Miller is
secretary. The purpose of the board is to help the business managers all they possibly can in the way of
finances and to supervise the campus publications.

Honor List Published By College Registrar
Twenty-five men are listed on last year’s honor roll, according to announcements made recently by I. W. Hengeveld, registrar of
Davidson College. Of this number, the senior class leads with nine men, while the junior class trailed with four. Last
year’s sophomores and present seniors each registered six students. The list is as follows:

Class of '38—Adams, A. C., Dorsett, J. Cooke, W. O., Lafferty, K., McKnight, C. A., Reinhardt, L., Jr.
Class of '39—Armstrong, O. V., Liipfert, E. L., Morrow, M. E., Jr., Page, W. Patterson, J. R., Reisner, J. H.,
Roberts, C. W., Robinson, W. S., White, Locke, Jr.
Class of '40—Doty, R. D., Ludlam, W. V., Holland, J. W., Guion, T. H., Ramsey, R. W., Spencer, S. R.
Class of '41—Bahnson, H. T., Brenizer, C., Brown, E. R., Jones, J.

Experience would be a better teacher if she would stop to explain things.
