WEDNESDAY, MAY 4, 1938 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Five

Scribes Have Weiner Roast
Journalism Class Will Continue Next Year

Davidsonians Obtain Three Scholarships
Brown, Horine, and Vowles Seniors Honored By ODK

Rev. McGregor Speaks At Vespers on Sunday
Frat Initiates Burlington Pastor Leads Vesper Service on “The Records of God”

Fred Smith announced that the journalism class would hold a weiner roast on the Catawba river Wednesday evening. Around thirty
members of the newly organized journalism class are expected to attend the outing. Several visitors will be present also.

Jake Houston, Charlotte Observer staff photographer, will be the evening’s speaker and will give a demonstration of special phases of
photography. Houston is one of the best-known news photographers in the Carolinas and a familiar figure around the Davidson campus.

Smith said that such interest had been shown in the class, that he has decided to continue it next year.
The club is composed of boys who are interested in newspaper work as a hobby or as a profession. It
was organized last fall and has since held regular meetings. Many prominent newspaper men have addressed the class in the
past year.

Three Davidson men, Dick Vowles, Frank Brown, and Field Horine have been recently awarded scholarships for outstanding work in chemistry,
medicine, and German, respectively.

Dick Vowles has recently received a graduate assistantship in chemistry at the University of N.C., beginning next year. It is
worth about $450 and tuition which makes a total of about $600. Vowles is a member of the Senior Class
and has varied campus activities. He was Editor of the Davidsonian for the year ‘37-38, President of The Eumenean Literary
Society, Phi Beta Kappa, and member of Omicron Delta Kappa.

Field Horine for his work abroad in German is to receive a scholarship to the University of Munich next year.

Frank Brown who is a member of the Class of ‘37 now holds an assistantship in Biology. He is to
receive a scholarship to Washington University for his work in medicine.

In his campus activities while a student here Brown was Phi Beta Kappa, member of “D” club, participated in Track,
Cross Country, Soccer, member of Y Cabinet, Honor roll, Red and Black Masquers and Deutscher Verein.

Seven Men Present Themselves For Initiation Into Phi Beta Kappa

Seven members of the senior class will present themselves for initiation into the North Carolina Gamma chapter of Phi Beta
Kappa at the regular annual initiation meeting of the society in the Chambers building tomorrow night. They are M. L.
Lafferty, W. B. Kiesewetter, A. R. Cates, I. F. Horine, J. Dorsett, and J. E. Holt of the class of
‘38.

Rev. McGregor, who graduated last June, will be the speaker for the occasion. He will speak on “The Records of
God.”

Le Cercle Francais Finishes Year

Le Cercle Francais presented its annual program in the auditorium Friday evening, April 29. The program consisted of two acts.
Al Cates and Bob King were in charge of the annual presentation.

“La Lettre Chargee,” (“The Registered Letter,”) a one-act comedy by Eugene Labiche, started the program at eight-fifteen. Hortense, a girl
who lived in Paris and had two suitors at the moment, was played by Sam Spencer. He, or she rather,
was seen at the beginning of the play reading poetry to one of her suitors, Hector de Courvalin, played by
Oscar Armstrong. The other suitor, an American, Peters Fougasson, was played by Newton Smith. Fougasson, a very successful American, tried
to hang himself with a ball of twine and acted generally like an insane person. Terrell Porter, played the part
of Francine, the maid.

The drama, “L’Homme de la Nuit,” (“The Man of the Night”) by Andre de Lorde, provided the second act. Al
Cates and Bob King were in charge of decorations and scenery, Chase Brenizer had charge of the lighting, while Dave
Sprunt and John Reisner handled the publicity and tickets. Mmes. Watts and Goldiere were in charge of costumes.

At the presentation last Friday evening there were about twenty girls from Winthrop College of Rock Hill, S.C., and several
from Statesville. Following the plays there was a reception given by the French Circle in the Quadwranglers room in Chambers
building for the casts of the plays.

Questionnaire Deals With ‘Campus Slang’

If you have ever heard of “tin pan?” What it means, where it originated, and how it is used, you
will have an opportunity to get them tabulated soon. The members of the English department are planning to hand out
a questionnaire in order to find out the meaning of local slang.

Maitland, Fla., is making a nationwide study of college slang and has requested the co-operation of the authorities here.

More Harvard University seniors selected business as their profession than any other line of endeavor.

The budget for Columbia University for the fiscal year beginning July 1 will be $14,806,021.

A Small Group of Students Will Retire for the Day to a Small Summer Retreat

Next Sunday a small group will have a retreat in order to discuss programs for next year, and mainly for
fellowship. There will only be about a dozen in this party who will retire for the day to a small
summer retreat.

Last night, the Student Volunteers held their last meeting of the school year at which Dr. B. H. Hunnicutt, president
of McKenzie College, in Brazil, spoke. At this meeting, the final business report was made and the plans for next
year were discussed. One member, Archie Torrey, has been elected to the “Y” cabinet, and the Student Volunteers will be
a part of the “Y” next year, probably changing their name to the Student Foreign Mission Fellowship.

Next Sunday a small group will have a retreat in order to discuss programs for next year, and mainly for
fellowship. There will only be about a dozen in this party who will retire for the day to a small
summer retreat.

Billy Pharr Initiated Into Fiji Chapter

Beta Officials Visit Local Chapter

S.A.E. Is Host To Convention

Among the Greeks

Billy Pharr was initiated into the Fiji chapter last week. Beta officials visited the local chapter and S.A.E. was host
to the convention.Camp furnished by a friend in is my Father glorified, that ye Herbert Smith, General Secretary of Beta
Theta Pi, and Bob Vince Gamma. for it convention Clarksdale, Mississippi, was initiated last Thursday night at the regular chapter
meeting. Over the weekend brothers Dorsett, Reid, Parrish, Martin, and Plyler attended the spring dances at Salem. However, on May
10, Le Cercle Francais will have its regular monthly meeting and the main business will be the election of officers
for the coming year. John Reisner will be in charge of the program.

Some of the members have joined the national Student Foreign Missions Fellowship. This differs from the local organization in that
it puts its entire time on evangelical missions, while the Student Volunteers emphasize no one particular thing, but do work
in many fields. One thing of importance they are doing is the writing of the spring newsletter which will be
sent to the other groups throughout the state.

That term “fruit,” the Bible shows, means “love,” a word hard to define. It has such synonyms, however, as kindness,
charity, and the good relationship with one’s fellow man. We glorify our Father by our bearing much fruit. The speaker's
final suggestion was that Christians would be helped in glorifying God by prayer.

At the end of the lesson, the Sunday School elected as its officers for next year John Mawhinney, president; Jack
Ferguson, vice president; and Bill secretary.

Bob Frazier, District Chief, visited the chapter over the weekend, a feed being held in their honor Saturday night. Bob
Eller went to Winston-Salem, and Granville Sharpe went to Greensboro. Bob Balsley went home to Reidsville, Leith Garrou to Valdese,
and Mazie Hall to Lincolnton. Several of the brothers are planning to attend the district convention this weekend at the
University of Virginia.

The chapter played host to Pro-Billy Pflarr, freshman from Clarksdale, Mississippi, was initiated last Thursday night at the regular chapter
meeting. Over the weekend brothers Dorsett, Reid, Parrish, Martin, and Plyler attended the spring dances at Salem. However, on May
10, Le Cercle Francais will have its regular monthly meeting and the main business will be the election of officers
for the coming year. John Reisner will be in charge of the program.

Joe Shelton visited Vernon Youngblood at Concord during the weekend, and John Scott, Ross MacElwee, Jack Abels, Enoch Stevenson, Ralph
Monger, and Edwin Shewmake went to Statesville. Jimmy MacDonald was in Burlington Saturday and Sunday. T. J. Turner and Joe
Brinson visited in Charlotte, Addison Long went to Salisbury, and Dick Aycock spent the weekend at home in Lincolnton. Bill
Aycock visited friends in Durham. The chapter is planning a house party this weekend at Myrtle Beach. A feed was
held at the house last Sunday night.

Dr. Addison Brenizer, Elizabeth Gammon, Dr. W. H. Frazier, Dr. Scott C. Lyons. The following girls were present: Misses Geoffrey
Jordan, Polly Robinson, Laura Fleming, Lib Gammon, Jane Hashagan, Lin Taylor, Marilyn Britton, Eleanor Block, University of Alabama; Anne Wiley,
Tiny Wind, and Mrs. Vowles. John Clouse, University of Alabama, was a visitor in Davidson. Miss Tillie Hines and Miss
Evelyn McCracken were guests of the chapter last week. The chapter is planning a house party for next weekend at
Ocean View, South Carolina.

If you want the most you can possibly get for your money in summertime clothing, take it from us, that
dollar for dollar, nowhere can you get such a fool-proof fabric, such flawless tailoring, such perfect fit, and such remarkable
comfort as in PALM BEACH SUITS. PALM BEACH SLACKS, $5.

On Sunday, April 24, Monroe Wicker and Bob Ramsey made talks during the morning hour of worship at the First
Presbyterian church in Monroe, N.C. The full deputation from the Davidson “Y” was composed of Monroe Wicker, Bob Ramsey, and
the Davidson College Quartet, Harper, Beall, Stuart Oglesby, Jim Ballard, and John Wilson. The quartet furnished the special music for
the service in the church of which Dr. MacLean is pastor.

The Davidson Y.M.C.A. is very active in sending out deputations. At least one deputation is sent somewhere nearly every Sunday.
Wade Boggs occupied the pulpit of the First Presbyterian church in Mount Holly, North Carolina, April 24 of which Rev.
W. K. Beaty, brother to Professor Beaty on the Davidson faculty, is pastor. On the same evening, Wade substituted in
Dr. W. W. Boyce’s pulpit in the A.R.P. church in Charlotte.

Kappa Alpha’s Will Go To Roaring Gap. The K. A. will hold their third annual house party next week in
Roaring Gap, N. C., at the summer home of Brother Bill Preyer. Mr. and Mrs. Preyer will chaperone the event.
Some of the brothers will go up Friday, where they will be joined Saturday by the rest of the chapter.

Brother To Perform Operation. Brother “Jeep” Gladelise is convalescing in Charlotte from an operation for appendicitis. Armstead, Burwell, and Ray
Pittman visited their homes last weekend. Gladelise went home to Chester, and Queen spent the weekend in Spartanburg. Joe Lauck
went to Washington, D. C. Johnny Sadler is still trying to find a ride to Philadelphia for the Penn Relays.
Karl Hudson went to Duke University, and Karl Jonas went to Marion. The chapter is planning a house party for
next weekend at Ocean View, South Carolina.

Pan-Hellenic Representative Is Visitor In Washington. Mark Bittard went off on a tangent this weekend and didn’t stop until he
arrived in Washington, D.C. He was accompanied by Jack McCullough. Sproull, Dunlap, and Stevenson were off to Winthrop but didn’t
spend but fifteen minutes there before they started back. Bill Lottin went to Rock Hill. John McGeachy and Bob Rineheart
were in Rock Hill visiting friends there. Karl Jonas went to Marion. The chapter is planning a house party for
next weekend at Ocean View, South Carolina.

Today & Thurs. Wade Boggs, Y. M. C. A. secretary, delegates attended the Y. W. C. A’s in colleges in
all of North Carolina. The sponsors for this convention had prepared for a large number of boys and girls from
the various organizations in schools all over the state. Dr. P. H. Gwynn of the Davidson faculty was also a
visitor in Davidson.

Arnaud C. Marts, head of a firm that acts as financial counselors for philanthropic institutions, is the author of several
books on the subject. The number of students majoring in physics has doubled in the last five years.

Fri. & Sat. Groceries and Merchandise Of Quality. M.H. Goodrum Co. —: RADIOS :— “Economy Trading” Southern 5c & 10c
Store DAVIDSON, N. C. Air Conditioned. A STYLE SENSATION. BUSH COATS. THE SMART NEW MODELS $1.95. PRE-SHRUNK WASHABLE FABRIC. NATIONAL
SHIRT SHOP. TRYON & TRADE STS., CHARLOTTE, N. C. FORTUNE SHOES. Friendly Shoe Store. 137 S. Tryon St. CHARLOTTE, N.
C. Across from Imperial—On the Square. It’s back to thrill you with romance and drama. PAUL MUNI BETTE DAVIS in
“Bordertown.”
