Squires Succeeds Kiesetter as Judge

2528 ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

The Davidsonian

New Point System Plan Before Student Body

VOL. XXV

New Judge of Court By Council Members

Julian Squires Made New Judge

Liipfert, McLean, Richmond, Hunter, Arnold, and Baker Also Elected

Last Thursday the president of the student body in conference with senior class members of the Student Council chose Julian
Squires Judge of the Court of Control for 1938-1939. Other students named to the group were Louis Hipp, Recorder; Eugene
Liipfert and Kenneth McLean, senior members; George Richmond and Gray Hunter, junior members; and Dick Arnold and Frank Barker, sophomore
members.

Outstanding Student

Julian Squires, the newly appointed Judge, lives in Charlotte. He is a member of the Beta Theta Pi social fraternity,
of the band, and of the Commerce Club. He has recently been elected president of his fraternity for the coming
year. The Recorder, Louis Hipp, who is from Greensboro, belongs to the Kappa Sigma social fraternity. He is a member
of the varsity track team.

Liipfert and McLean

Eugene Liipfert, of Winston-Salem, is a member of the Phi Gamma Delta fraternity and is next year’s Pan-Hellenic representative. He
is also on the editorial staff of the “Scripts and Pranks.” Kenneth McLean, who is from Lumberton, belongs to the
Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity. He was on the debating team his freshman year and is a member of the
Alpha Phi Epsilon national forensic fraternity. He was activities editor of the 1941 “Y” Handbook.

Dick Arnold of Greenville, S.C., is a member of the Kappa Alpha social fraternity. He was captain of the freshman
football team and is on the freshman track squad. Frank Barker is from Kansas City, Missouri. He is a member
of the Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity, of the editorial staff of the “Davidsonian,” of the business staff of the
“Quips and Cranks,” and of the freshman track team.

Feast Honors Staff Tonight!

Tonight the annual Davidsonian banquet will be held in the dining room of Hotel Davidson in honor of the members
of the Editorial and Business Staffs of the paper. A definite program has been arranged and Charles Moore, past Business
Manager, will act as Master of Ceremonies for the occasion. Music will be added to the evening by Chubby’s band.
The dining room will be especially decorated for the occasion. Members of the staff will hear the guest speaker, Cameron
Shipp, who edits feature columns for the Charlotte News. He has also written several articles and short stories for some
of the better-known magazines. During the evening Davidsonian keys will be presented to the Junior Managing Editors and Junior Business
Managers for their work during the past year. The following will also be present: Mr. F. L. Jackson and Dr.
W. L. Porter, advisors to the Davidsonian, and Fred Smith, alumni secretary; Mr. Brooks Todd, J. G. Garth, Mr. W.
P. Benton, Mr. Fred Fleming, Mr. R. B. Young, and Mr. Fred H. Plexico; Mr. Bierman (Continued on Page 4).

Knight To Succeed

Samuel B. Knight has been announced as successor to Prof. Avery Patton as assistant professor of chemistry for the coming
session. A native of South Carolina, Mr. Knight took his undergraduate work at Clemson College. At present, he is completing
his graduate work at the University of North Carolina, from which he will receive his degree of Doctor of Philosophy
in June. He comes highly recommended by the Chemistry Department there.

Four Named For Service On Y Board

Crane and Spencer From Juniors, Gaw and Newell From Seniors Are Chosen

In the recent “Y” Board of Control vote, Sid Crane and Sam Spencer of the rising junior class and Warren
Gaw and Sam Newell, representing the rising senior class, were elected. Crane was elected in the first ballot while the
rest won in the third vote. Crane’s home is in the Belgian Congo. He made his freshman numerals in football
last year and is a member of Le Cercle Francais. He is first vice-president of the “Y,” a member of
the cabinet, and is active in deputations, the student volunteers, and young people’s work. He has also taken an active
part in plays given by the French club. Spencer lives in Columbia, S.C., and is a K.A. He is a
member of Eumenean Literary Society, Sigma Upsilon, Alpha Phi Epsilon, Le Cercle Francais, and the student council. Sam is the
first vice-president of the student body and belongs to the “Y” cabinet. Newell is president of the rising senior class
and of Sigma Upsilon, and vice president of the Kappa Alpha fraternity and the Beaver club. He is a member
of the student council, the “Y” cabinet, and in the recent tap-day services was inducted into Omicron Delta Kappa. His
home is in Atlanta, Ga. Gaw, who hails from Greensboro, N.C., is president of Kappa Sigma fraternity and freshman adviser
next year. He is a member of O.D.K., the student council, and the “Y” cabinet. These four and Sherrard Rice,
who is automatically the head of it, compose the student members of the board for next year. Prof. E. A.
Beaty was recently elected by acclamation to serve as faculty representative.

Staff Chosen

Davidson Selects Eight Men As Assistants

Don Davidson, business manager of the 1938-1939 Scripts and Pranks, has announced his business staff for the coming year. Ralph
Monger, advertising manager; Dave Colvin, credit manager; Charles Sherman, circulation manager; and B. B. Plyler, assistant advertising manager have been
chosen. There will be four sophomores on this staff next year: Ed Jackson, Ralph Harkey, Bill Ward, and J. H.
Parrish.

Ralph Monger is a member of the Pi Kappa Alpha social fraternity and a transfer from P.J.C. this year. Dave
Colvin has completed his second year on the staff, is a member of Pi Kappa Phi, Eumenean Literary Society, and
is on the staff of the Y.M.C.A. Handbook, the Band and Glee Club, and has been very active in the
musical work of the college. B. B. Plyler is a member of the Phi Gamma Delta fraternity, has been made
assistant business manager of the Davidsonian, and was a transfer from Atlantic Christian Junior College this year. The business staff
is making a special canvass of the senior class in order to get the graduates to subscribe to next year’s
magazine. They feel that in this way graduates can keep in contact with the school and their friends. Next year’s
magazine will be considerably larger, according to manager Davidson.

For Magazine

Charles Sherman is a member of the class business.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N.C., WEDNESDAY, MAY 18, 1938

Dramatists To Present

Miss Hood Will Take Lead in Comedy to Be Presented Monday Night

The Red and Black Masquers’ three-act comedy, “Dulcy,” will be presented next Monday night in Chambers Auditorium at 8 o’clock.
The Masquers have announced that they have been especially fortunate in securing to play the leading role Miss Kalista Hood,
daughter of Dr. Hood of the Davidson faculty. She is a member of a stock company in New York City,
having recently arrived in Davidson to spend the summer with her parents. During the winter she appeared in plays entitled
“Cavalcade” and “The Warrior’s Husband,” and also two Shakespearian comedies, “As You Like It” and “The Merchant of Venice.”

Frat Group Picks White

Sam Webb Elected New Vice-President; Sam Newell Is Secretary

“Teeny” Lafferty, who was recently elected permanent president of the class of 1938, presented the petition to the Student Council
to establish a point system at Davidson. The proposed amendment is to be voted upon by the student body Monday,
May 23.

Brown Wins Over Crooks, Student Council Member To Serve As Senior Marshal On Class Day

The Fraternity Council for next year, with Sam Webb being chosen as vice-president and Sam Newell secretary. Fourteen members out
of the nineteen have already been selected.

Thursday Set As Award Day

Trophies Will Be Presented to Winners of Athletic Contests

The annual Athletic Day exercises will be held Thursday morning at chapel time, when the awards for the year 1937-38
will be given to the winners of the respective contests. The gymnastic trophy for the year was won by Tip
Harrison of the Senior Class. John W. Moore of Winston-Salem won the Physical Improvement Trophy by growing 18 inches during
the year. The Juniors copped the Intramural Trophy, while Yates Faison won the trophy for individual high scorer in intramurals.
The interfraternity trophy goes to the Phi Gamma Delta fraternity. The other awards will be announced on Thursday.

The program for Thursday:

Scripture reading and invocation

PortraitIs by Dr. Moffett. Award of the Gymnastic Trophy by Dr. Lyons. Senior Gift. - Award of the Decathlon Trophy
by Prof. Johnston. At a senior class smoker Monday night in the Banquet Hall of Chambers Building, the class of
'38 decided to make as their gift a portrait of Dr. C. R. Harding, who has recently concluded his fiftieth
year here as professor of Greek and fine arts.

Other plans for the gift considered at the meeting were a bronze tablet with names of all the past college
presidents of Davidson, a brick pavement around the gymnasium, furniture for the YMCA, equipment for the Davidsonian office, and a
fish pond for the fraternity court. In the last ballot, the portrait of Dr. Harding defeated the plan for a
fish pond.

Also at the smoker, an explanation concerning the commencement procedure was made, class day officers were elected, and plans were
made for the Class Day program. The alumni officers of the class were voted upon, but the results have not
been announced. In addition, an invitation from Winthrop College to the class for a supper was declined because of the
oncoming examinations. Music for the smoker was supplied by Chubby King and his band. Cigarettes and refreshments were provided during
the program, and after the meeting had been concluded, many members remained to listen to the music and discuss the
alumni.

Award of the Intramural Trophy by Dr. Gwynn. Award of the Basketball Trophy by Mr. Jackson. Award of the Wrestling
Medals by Mr. Cummings. Award to the Individual High Scorer in Intramurals by Mr. Shepard. Award of the Interfraternity Trophy
by Prof. Fleagle.

Standard Printing Co. Gets Contract

The printing contract for The Davidsonian for next year has been let to the Standard Printing Company of Charlotte. Throughout
the entire twenty-four years of its existence, the Davidsonian has been printed by the Standard with the exception of one
and one-half years. In the National Scholastic Press scorebook, the Davidsonian was given a 100 percent rating on printing mechanics.
This is due entirely to the efforts of the Standard Printing Company. The purchase of new type for the Davidsonian’s
use was the unanimous decision of the Board of Publications. There will probably be no change in type in next
year’s Davidsonian.

Smith Sets Alumni Day

Alumni Day will be held on May 7th, according to Fred Smith, Alumni Secretary. Luncheon will be held in the
banquet hall of Chambers Building at 12:30 o'clock. The dining hall is expected to be crowded to overflowing capacity, since
this will be the most important event during the day. A prominent alumnus has been invited to be the main
speaker for the event. A discussion group of alumni, whose president is Dr. Oren D. Moore of Charlotte, and faculty
will be held at 10 o'clock in the morning. The subjects that will be discussed are: the social life on
the Davidson campus, plans for the future of the college, and other allied subjects. This will be the first time
that the faculty has participated in the discussion group. The senior class has heretofore conferred with the alumni alone. At
3 o'clock in the afternoon, class reunions will be held. A great deal of interest has been created recently by
Alumni Day, and last year saw the biggest crowd ever attracted to the Davidson campus. At 8 o'clock in the
evening, all fraternity houses and the two literary halls will have open house for the guests. The Alumni Council will
meet on (Continued on Page 8).

Permanent Class Head Is Elected

Teeny Lafferty Named President Over Barrow and Dorsett

Martin L. "Teeny" Lafferty of Concord was elected permanent president of the class of '38 at a called meeting of
the class Tuesday morning, May 10. Elected on the first ballot, Lafferty was opposed by Wade Barrow and Jim Dorsett.
All three were nominated by the nominating committee, and there were no nominations from the floor. Lafferty, a member of
the Pi Kappa Alpha social fraternity, has been this year's president. He has been outstanding throughout his entire college career.
During his four years here, he has played football every year, and his unusual backfield ability and running were the
despair of many an opponent. His first three years he played baseball as a baseman and later as an outfielder.
He was president of his class during his sophomore year and has been a member of the Student Council for
his three years as an upperclassman. Last year he was first vice president of the student body as well as
vice president of the Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity. The past year he has been president of the student body, president
of Sigma Pi Sigma, honorary physics fraternity, president of Scabbard and Blade, honorary military fraternity, and Cadet Battalion Commander of
the Davidson ROTC unit. He is also a member of Omicron Delta Kappa, honorary leadership fraternity, Phi Beta Kappa, honorary
scholarship fraternity, the "D" Club, honorary athletic fraternity, International Relations Club, and the YMCA Cabinet.

Commencement Plans Decided

Varied Features to Last From June 4 to 7th

This year June 4-7 will be set aside for an extensive Commencement program. The program as planned will include features
interesting to old grads as well as to the departing members of the class of '38. Saturday, June 4 at
4 P.M., the series of features which make up the program will get underway with an Executive Committee Alumni Council
meeting. At 7 P.M. of the same day, there is a supper for the Alumni Council, which will be followed
at 8 P.M. by a meeting of the said council. This concludes the events of the day. Sunday, June 5
at 11:15 A.M., a baccalaureate sermon will be rendered by Rev. John A. Mackay, D.D., president of Princeton Theological Seminary.
At 4:30 P.M. of the same day, there will be a sacred organ and cello concert. Monday, June 6 has
been declared Alumni Day, and at 10:00 A.M. there will be group discussions. At 12:30 P.M. there will be the
annual alumni luncheon with Dr. Oren Moore, '08, president of the Charlotte Alumni Association, presiding. The following afternoon will be
devoted to informal class reunions at 3:00 P.M. At 4:00 P.M., Senior Class Day Exercises will be held. At 5:00
P.M. there will be a faculty reception for seniors and their friends. That night at 8:00 P.M., fraternities and Literary
Societies will hold open house. On Tuesday, June 7, the actual graduation exercises will take place. At 10:00 A.M. there
will be the regular academic procession; at 10:30 the graduation exercises.

Student Body Votes On Proposed System In Monday’s Meeting

New System to Evaluate Student Offices in Order of Importance

The student body of Davidson College will vote Monday morning, May 23, on whether to accept or reject a proposed
amendment to the student constitution, which, if adopted, will establish the point system of office tenure on the campus. The
proposed amendment, to be known as Article IV of the constitution, was read in chapel last Friday. The amendment would
evaluate student offices according to their importance and the amount of time their efficient administration consumes, in line with its
avowed purpose "to make for greater efficiency in the administration of student affairs."

Submitted By Lafferty

The proposal was originally submitted to the student council by its sponsor, Teeny Lafferty, at a night session of the
council on May 5, at which time it was rejected by that body, lacking four votes of the necessary two-thirds
majority. As some of the Councilmen were not present at this meeting, it was re-submitted at a full meeting on
May 10, and it was decided to present the plan to the student body for its deliberation.

Tabled Ten Days

Accordingly, on May 11 at a student meeting, the measure was read and discussed, then tabled, in accordance with the
constitution, for a period of ten days. It will again be presented at a meeting of the student body on
May 20, Friday, at which time further discussion will be in order.

Beavers Bid 8 New Men

The Beaver Club last Monday sent out bids to the following chosen men: Cales McClintock, Charlie Luther, Rob Baisley, Tank
Bahnson, Tom Cauble, Casey Jones, Bobby Williams, and Winston Taylor. These eight men were selected to take the place of
the nine rising seniors of the club. When a member becomes a senior, he is not active any longer but
becomes honorary. Eight of the vacancies are now filled, and the remaining one is left open for the election of
an additional man next year. These new men will be formally taken into the club next Thursday night, which will
be the last meeting to be held this year. A committee headed by Jack Holland has been appointed for the
purpose of selecting a key for the club. Buck Powell, as chairman of a committee to see about changing the
club's name, reported that as yet no better names had been suggested by any member, and action on this matter
will be deferred until next fall. This was the first meeting of the Beavers presided over by the new president,
Charlie Akers. Other new officers recently chosen include: Buck Powell, vice president; and Bob Wood, secretary-treasurer. Akers, Powell, and Wood
succeeded Tom Abbott, Perry Sloan, and Henry McConnell, respectively, in their offices.

Miller New Head

Rut Miller, new editor of Scripts 'n Pranks, has been elected president of the Publication Board for 1938-39. Bill Marquess,
editor of the Davidsonian, is the new secretary. Miller is a member of Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity and Sigma
Upsilon, literary fraternity. He has taken an active part in class and fraternity sports and holds a high scholastic standing
in his class. He is the author of “Take It Easy,” a Davidsonian column.
