WEDNESDAY, NOV. 9, 1938 THE DAVIDSONIAN, Page Three

Question of the Week

There has been some discussion about the new “Count ‘em Out” yell that our cheerleaders used during the game last Saturday against Wofford. There was a better response to this yell than to any other yell used, but we found a few boys who didn’t seem to like the yell and the time at which it was used. The question of the week: “What is your opinion of the ‘Count ‘em Out’ yell?” seemed to be the obvious question to ask. Here are a few opinions gathered from the boys over the campus:

Ed Cloyd, Senior: Those who attended the Davidson vs. Furman game were the first to hear and see the results of the “Count ‘em Out” yell. Furman scored and their supporters responded by “Counting ‘em Out.” Then what happened? The Wildcats got a little angry and proceeded to quiet the Purple Hurricane. If that yell from the Furman stands helped Davidson to win a game, isn’t it entirely possible that we might aid one of our opponents in the same way? Therefore, I say forget the “Count ‘em Out” yell and have the entire student body place renewed vigor and power behind those characteristic yells which really support our team.

Ed Watkins, Junior: I think the “Count ‘em Out” yell is a lot of fun. It may be instrumental in making our opponents fight harder, but still it helps our team, too. The “praise Allah” ceremony gets more response than any other yell. And, too, everybody can count. The Salem girls seemed to like it. It’s O.K. by me.

Charles Martin, Sophomore: The “Count ‘em Out” yell is out of place. To our opponents, it is just rubbing it in, and it shows in every way a lack of sportsmanship. When this yell is given, just put yourself in the opponents’ position. I think you will agree that it must be abolished to keep our ranks among the highest in sportsmanship.

B. B. Plyler, Junior: Until the question was proposed, I had given no particular thought to it. I can see no reason for not having the yell except when we score too much and even then we could count by fives.

Charlie Yates, Junior: The “Count ‘em Out” yell, as it was tried at the Wofford game, seemed fine as a novelty, but as a permanent yell, I am opposed to it. A yell like this seems to me to be comparable to cheering when opponents are penalized or when an opponent is injured. This, I feel, is detrimental to the Davidson spirit.

“Apie” Means, Junior: I was at the Furman game when the new “Count ‘em Out” yell was first adopted—copied from Furman who first used it when they were in the lead. I remember at the time how un-gentlemanly and grating it sounded. Davidson has always boasted of a traditional spirit surpassed by none, but that spirit has always upheld the ideals of a gentleman and has served as a motivating power to drive our team forward, not as a means of deliberately attempting to humiliate our opponents and guests. We have always been proud of the fact that all opposing teams have commented on our spirit and sportsmanship. Would you want to destroy this feeling by taking advantage of some such superiority as we did in the Wofford game? The victory will bring us due credit, but the yell will do much to detract from it. I, for one, hope that the yell will not be used again.

Tom Cauble, Sophomore: I feel that the new “Count ‘em Out” yell is impractical in that it sounds good only when we have run up a large score on some weaker team. And in that case, it would not seem quite like sporting conduct. I see nothing wrong with it, however, if we should hold the lead over some favored opponent.

Salem Girls Entertained By Davidson

Beavers Arrange Dates For 175 Girls Attending Wofford Game

Prospects of a dreary, rainy afternoon failed to stop three busloads of Salem students, 175 strong, from visiting the Davidson campus last Saturday for the Davidson-Wofford game. The invitations to the girls were extended last week by the Beaver Club and forwarded by Miss Annette McNeely, president of the Salem Student body. From these, blind dates were selected by the Davidson escorts.

Arrive At Two

The buses, full to the brim, arrived on the campus shortly after two o'clock Saturday afternoon, just as the skies were clearing. Jack Holland, master of ceremonies and spokesman for the Beaver Club, greeted the girls and then directed them to date bureaus set up in front of Chambers building. Here they were introduced to their escorts and were taken to Richardson stadium.

The Salem College administration broke a timeworn custom Saturday, setting a precedent in their choice of chaperons for the trip. There was no trace of the usual bespectacled, elderly dowager; the gate attendant at the stadium, mistaking the three officials for Salem students, offered to get escorts for them.

Full Afternoon

The big day was made still bigger by the biggest score of the season: Davidson 29 to Wofford’s 0. Fraternity houses and the social center were opened after the game but on account of a dance at Salem that evening the girls were forced to leave soon after the end of the contest. With the cheering “Go, Davidson!” the buses pulled away shortly before six o'clock.

Salem, however, was not the only guest of the college over the weekend. Eight high school bands from North and South Carolina accepted an invitation from the music department to attend the game. Between the halves, the Central High band of Charlotte paraded with the entire group massed on the field for the national anthem. The high schools represented were Charlotte, Gastonia, Lancaster, S.C.; Shelby, Drexel, Kings Mountain, Monroe, Kannapolis, and also the Davidson summer school-camp band.

Sportwriters Cover Games

Representatives Of Various Presses Visit Campus For Football Game

While the spectators lean back and enjoy the football games or root in frenzied excitement, up in the pressbox, practically forgotten in the rush of the game, the headlines and thrill stories for the next day are being pounded out. In the Davidson Pressbox at each home game can be seen as varied a group of sports scribes as collects anywhere on these tangy autumn afternoons. Representatives from ten different papers, the two major news syndicates, and two radio announcers make up this cosmopolitan group each Saturday. Among those present: Jake Wade, Wilton Garrison, Sam Miller and “Three Gamas” Jake Houston, from the Observer Staff; Burke Davis, Enoch and Lizard.

What does the lizard say, Enoch? Enoch, faithful Chambers janitor, “vows and declares” that those V.M.I. “Keydets” who are coming down here Saturday are going back with a sting of defeat from the Wildcats’ claws. Enoch has consulted the lizard and the lizard agrees. Who knows? We hope Enoch and the lizard do!

Latest Who’s Who Has Many Davidson Names

College Gives Radio Concert

Davidson College is well represented. Regular Weekly Broadcasts Presented By Professor James C. Pfohl

On Tuesday night from 9:15 to 9:30 another one of the series of broadcasts being given weekly on Station WBT in Charlotte. Under the direction of James Christian Pfohl, the Davidson Symphonic Orchestra rendered several compositions. Another feature of the program was the presentation of news items of the campus by a selected student announcer. The program opened with “O, Davidson!” composed by Shields—which was followed by the selections, “Iowa Band Law—March” by K. L. King and “Die Fledermaus Waltzes” by Strauss. The brief talk giving the latest news was presented at this time. The following musical selections concluded the broadcast: “Stars and Stripes Forever” by Sousa, a hymn, “Federal Street” by Oliver and “O, Davidson!” by Shields.

Tryouts for the selection of a student announcer were given Tuesday afternoon in the studios of WBT. Mr. Crutchfield of Charlotte was the judge as to the owner of the best speaking voice. This announcer will assume the position for the remainder of the radio programs to be given this year.

Officers Plan For Week-End

The second regular monthly meeting of all the officers of the Scabbard and Blade was held Monday, November the tenth. At this meeting, it was decided that a flag-raising ceremony would be held before the V.M.I. Homecoming football game. A flag pole is to be erected on the football field. Also, it was voted that there should be a court martial, in order that the military science that has been studied during the past six weeks may be put into practical application. Sometime next month, it was voted, there is to be a mock trial, the details of which are at present being worked out. Some observation of Armistice Day, which is as yet indefinite, is also being planned.Man Wears A Hat
108 South Tryon Street
HAT SHOP

IN ORDER TO LOOK YOUR BEST FOR Homecoming!
— visit —
JOHNSON’S BARBER SHOP
Expert Service

THE LITTLE PEP CAFE
— AND —
DELMONICO’S GRILL of CHARLOTTE, N. C.
SEND GREETINGS TO DAVIDSON
And urges them to enjoy good meals with them!

Twenty-five Members Of Faculty Group And Trustees Are Listed

Davidson is well represented in the latest volume of “Who’s Who in America,” having eight members of the faculty and administration listed as well as seventeen Trustees.

Dr. Drew Lingle, President of Davidson; Dr. Sentelle, Dean of Students; Dr. J. W. MacConnell, Director of Student Health Service; Dr. H. B. Arbuckle, retired professor of chemistry; Dr. Frazer Hood of the Psychology department; Mr. F. L. Jackson, College Treasurer; Dr. Scott Lyon of the Biology Department, and Dr. C. M. Richards of the Bible Department are representatives of the faculty and administration, while the seventeen trustees hail from all over the South. They are as follows: Rev. R. C. Anderson, Rev. D. H. Scanlon, Durham; Rev. P. D. Miller, Raleigh; Mr. W. Belk, Charlotte; Rev. C. R. Nisbet, Rev. A. S. Johnson, Charlotte; Dr. R. A. Dunn, Charlotte; Mr. Lunsford Richardson, Greensboro; Mr. John D. Parker, Jacksonville, Fla.; Mr. C. A. Cannon, Concord; Mr. H. S. Richardson, New York, N. Y.; Dr. C. R. Wilcox, Rome, Ga.; Dr. H. W. McKay, Charlotte; Mr. W. J. Roddey, Rock Hill, S. C.; Rev. J. McDowell Richards, Decatur, Ga.; Mr. S. Clay Williams, Winston-Salem; and Mr. D. K. Pope, Richmond, Va.

These biographies brought out some interesting facts about the men that were probably hitherto unknown by the average Davidsonian. Dr. Lingle was an instructor at Union Theological Seminary. Later he was pastor of Presbyterian churches in Dalton, Ga., Rock Hill, S. C., and of the First Presbyterian Church of Atlanta, Ga. He then returned to Union Theological Seminary in Richmond where he was first McCormick Professor of Hebrew Language and Sunday School work, and later professor of Church History. Following this, he was President of Union Theological Seminary.

Ben R. Lacy To Be Soloist At Symphonic Concert
Will Speak At Vespers
President Of Union Theological Seminary Is Davidson Graduate

Dr. Ben R. Lacy, President of Union Theological Seminary in Richmond, will be the guest speaker at vespers service here next Sunday evening. Dr. Lacy is a Davidson graduate. He won Phi Beta Kappa recognition here and went on to study at Oxford University following his graduation. He completed work there for a B. A. degree and returned to this country where he entered Union Theological Seminary. Upon his graduation, Dr. Lacy was ordained into the Presbyterian ministry. He continued in that service until World War I, when he became a chaplain in the army and served until the war closed. He accepted a large church in Atlanta following the war and was given the degree of Doctor of Divinity by Davidson and by Duke University. Dr. Lacy became president of Union Seminary in 1920. He now holds that position.

Dramas Given By Masquers
One Act Plays Composed Of Two Tragedies And One Comedy

The Red and Black Masquers presented one-act plays, “Where the Cross is Made,” by Eugene O’Neill; “The Man in the Bowler Hat,” by A. A. Milne; and “The Valiant,” by Hall and Middlemack. These plays were given in the auditorium last Thursday evening.

“Where the Cross is Made” is the tragedy of a shipwrecked sailor who goes insane over a vision of treasure and a ship lost at sea. Nat Bartlett, unable to stand the strain of taking care of his insane father, Captain Bartlett, arranges with the doctor to take his father to the asylum. Sue Bartlett, his sister, opposes the plan. The captain suddenly dies of heart failure, overcome with worry and anxiety. Nat Bartlett, with his father’s death, becomes sane. The cast was as follows: Captain Bartlett, Bob Powell; Nat Bartlett, Melvin Means; Sue Bartlett, Susie Jackson; The Doctor, Shaw Smith. The play was directed by John McIntyre.

“The Man in the Bowler Hat” was the second play presented. John and Mary, a young couple, bored with the routine of life and longing for romance and excitement, are confronted with a Hero, a Heroine, a Villain, and a complicating intrigue. At the last moment, the director, who occupies a prominent position on the stage, announces that the play was badly acted and that it will have to be rehearsed again the next day. The cast was as follows: John, Tom McLean; Mary, Kalista Hood; Hero, Dave Colvin; Heroine, Virginia Hengeveld; Chief Villain, Dick Cobb; Bad man, Boyd Flynn. Warren Gaw, as the man in the Bowler hat, directed the play.

“The Valiant” is a dramatic tragedy involving the last night of a young convict, James Dyke, before his death in the electric chair. James Dyke withholds his family name so as not to bring disgrace on his old mother. His sister is brought [Continued on Page Seven]

Home Coming November 12
— ALUMNI HEADQUARTERS —
College Pharmacy
“Next to P. O. and Just as Popular”

Mr. Leonard Moretta, now of Lenoir, was formerly with Ernest Williams Concert Band, with the University of Michigan, and with a Major Bowes amateur unit. He will be featured as soloist at the annual Homecoming Concert, Friday night.

Spanish Group Holds Contest
Bixler, Ballard, And Cunningham Win Three Places Respectively

Al Bixler, president of Sigma Delta Pi, placed first in the honorary Spanish fraternity’s contest on South America held at the regular meeting Monday night. Jim Ballard and Roy Cunningham copped second and third places respectively in the competition, which dealt with a map of South America.

The first portion of the program was devoted to talks from members of the local chapter of the fraternity, which is a national honorary for the recognition of excellence in the study of Spanish. A talk was given by Monroe Bixler on the Monroe Doctrine. The address, given in Spanish, outlined the famous doctrine and gave the viewpoint of Spanish America concerning the historical document of such vital importance in Western Hemisphere.

A quite comical incident, “Los Andaluces en Nueva York,” was rendered by Dan Cagle, dealing with the misunderstanding between Spaniards and Americans as to their respective languages. The map contest followed. Included in the business of the evening was the discussion and enactment of a motion to donate five dollars toward the expense of Dr. Leavitt O. Wright, former national president, incurred in traveling to the national convention in New York City. Fourteen were present at the meeting, including faculty members F. K. Fleagle and F. L. Blythe.

—ANY NEEDS —FOR HOUSE —OR ROOM
M. H. GOODRUM & CO.
Davidson, N. C.

Midnight Blue TUX $19.45 to $35
You men will be delighted with the smart tailoring and excellent fit of these tux even though their price is low.
TAILS $29.50 to $35
NECKBAND SHIRTS $2.50
COLLAR-ATTACHED SHIRTS $3.00
LINK AND STUD SETS $2 and $3
TUX TIES 50c
COLLARS 25c
BLACK SILK HOSE 50c
MEN’S DEPT. Street Floor
BELK’S CHARLOTTE, N. C.

ROLLS DEVELOPED
Any size roll kodak film developed, 8 never-fade Velox prints for only 25c. Free mailing envelopes furnished. VALUABLE PREMIUMS GIVEN. MAIL YOUR FILMS TO
Jack Rabbit Co.
SPARTANBURG, S. C.