Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, OCT. 26, 1938

The Davidsonian
Founded By the Class of 1915

1938 Member 1939
Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON Ave. New York, N.Y.
CHICAGO • BOSTON • LOS ANGELES • SAN FRANCISCO

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879

JESS ----------------- Editor-in-Chief
Jonny ----------------- Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
Terrell Porter ----------------- Wel Abernathy
Erle Austin ----------------- Jack Holland
Karl Hudson ----------------- Sam Spencer
Toni Casali ----------------- Ovid Bell
Perry Sloan ----------------- Henry Baker
Walt Kunz ----------------- Staff Photographer

BUSINESS STAFF
----------------- Business Manager
----------------- Advertising Manager
Bill Ross ----------------- Advertising Manager
Julian Lokey ----------------- Circulation Manager
Hackney ----------------- Circulation Manager
Bud Gilmore ----------------- Manager

On Liberty...
The number of occasions lately indicates that they need a re-definition of liberty. Their interpretation is “I may do what
I jolly well please.” But that is far from the true conception of the principle. Liberty, first of all, implies
self-control. Many members of our student body still carry about with them the influence of the high school days when
a teacher sat at the end of the aisle to maintain discipline or an instructor lived in the dormitory to
preserve order. We have none of that here. Students at Davidson pledged themselves and demonstrated their sincerity by their actions
that they were able to control their cruder emotions without the influence of a faculty member.

Secondly, liberty means respect for order. Certain students, as soon as a grievance comes to them, immediately suggest a fire
or a water carnival, or some other purposeless action. It is moronic thinking to suppose that the administration can be
forced to concede to the demands of the student body. The faculty is open, however, to the suggestions and petitions
and mediating committees of the students. And it will act upon them if the students will play fair. Only through
these channels will the students ever find a successful petition of grievances.

Last, liberty assumes that we are to act as gentlemen. And many of us have failed. The point has now
been reached where many students and faculty members believe that some of the students cannot be reached by pleas, suggestions,
or student opinion. If that is true, the student council has granted itself the power to discipline any member who
at any time fails to conduct himself as a gentleman. It is time for the Council to use that power.
We plead with all students who cherish the liberty given to us, who respect the common ideal of gentlemanly conduct,
and who wish to preserve the dignity of the Davidson student body to act as a crusading force to remove
from the student body or to disapprove before the student body all members who refuse to support the traditions of
Davidson gentlemen.

* * * * * * * *

Explanation...
It has been recently called to our attention that editorials, letters, and columns in The Davidsonian sometimes make references to
misconduct in “chapel” which might be misunderstood by some who have never attended Davidson and are not familiar with its
curriculum. To these, we would hasten to explain that our chapel period is divided into two parts, the devotional service
and the “assembly,” or student body meeting. During the former, our behavior is usually quite exemplary. The misconduct referred to
is the horseplay and frolicking carried on during the assembly.

The only thing that can cheat a woman out of the last word is the echo of her own voice.

More Letters...
It is with no small amount of pride that we turn out an editorial page this week containing twice the
usual number of “Letters to the Editor.” Perhaps this is a sign that more students are doing some thinking along
constructive lines and are taking a greater interest in the paper. We hope that this will not just prove to
be a “banner week,” after which this department will sink back into its usual rather neglected state. In a student
body poll taken last year, one of the main criticisms of the paper was that it did not contain enough
student opinion. This criticism is not properly directed at the paper, but should be aimed at the student body which
has failed to utilize this ever-present space for voicing its opinion.

What A Man...
“The college man is a living paradox. Most people cannot understand him and those who do, come to their conclusions
by indirect proof. He talks of the future but worships the past. He is liberal in his conversation but conservative
in his action. He is radical in his opinions of politics, but elects stand-patters to the class officers. He demands
freedom of thinking but defends with all his strength the traditions of his institution. He takes wild stands on religious
theories yet attends colleges and universities that are created and maintained by orthodox creeds. He preaches democracy yet supports the
most rigid campus system. He demands that his university maintains the highest athletic standards yet in the same breath also
demands a professional football team. He scoffs at his profs but defends them strenuously when they are criticized. He rebels
against rules but sets up more rigid ones when given the opportunity. He hazes the high school graduate who comes
with a Boy Scout badge on his coat, but he covers his own vest with medals and keys. He invents
and uses the most outlandish slang on the street, but reads and writes pure English in his room. He clamors
for self-government but doesn’t want it after he gets it. He laughs at convention but insists upon it. He cuts
classes the day before a vacation but comes back three days early. You ask ‘What are we going to do
about it?’ We are going to praise the Lord that we have him and that he is just what he
is, a walking contradiction of himself.” Like it? We thought you would!—ACP.

Campus Comments
One of Davidson's admirable qualities is her friendliness. There is a deep spirit of cordiality here that works its way
into every appreciative student so much that his warmness becomes a part of him. We pride ourselves in the fact
that we speak to each other whenever we pass on the campus. We are noted for our “Howdy, Gentlemen,” that
marks us as Davidson men. We should be proud of this tradition and every man should see to it that
he himself helps preserve it. Every man should speak to other Davidson men whether he knows his name or not.
We ought to be proud of, yet endeavor to preserve, this mark of distinction. We must not become lax in
speaking. We should keep Davidson a college campus noted for its friendliness.

Cordially,
—FRED STARR,
President of Student Body.

P.S.—I request Sam Newell, President of the Senior Class, to write the next Campus Comments.

* * * * * * * *

Is it not a fact that only a thin space separates the notable from the not able printer?

Only an effort of will divides the scatterbrained from those who can really concentrate.

Money-making may not be the true end of life, but it’s often the real beginning of living.

One reason why so few recognize opportunity is because it is disguised as hard work.

If you want to test your memory, try to remember the things that worried you yesterday.

True wisdom is to know what is best worth knowing and to do what is best worth doing.

CAMPUS IN CARTOON
Letters To R.F. WILLIAMS, BY KENT STATE U. BUS DRIVER, HAS DRIVEN A MILLION MILES WITHOUT AN ACCIDENT.

LLOYD SPARKMAN, LAW STUDENT AT THE UNIV. OF TEXAS, CAN PILOT AN AIRPLANE!

SUPER SNOOPINGS
By KEN LAWSON

Not that I am desirous of seeing my name in print but so that my friends Tenney, Hemphill, and McClellan,
Davis, Smith can allay their suspicions, here is my by-line at last. The only thing I am sorry about is
that now Hemp-hill will have to admit to a certain young lady in Charlotte that he is not the Super
Snooper.

Memories of a swell weekend: The sweet swing music of Dick Jones and his orchestra, glamorous girls from far and
near making everything beautiful again until they showed up on a late date with a local powerhouse to darken the
blue skies once more, and the bang-up game played by the Wildcats against powerful North Carolina.

Cannot pass over the game without mentioning the knowing girl who wanted to know if the play-by-play description really came
from the sidelines or by someone out on the field, and why they cheered when they moved the silly old
chain down on the sidelines.

A lesson in diplomacy and resourcefulness could be learned by all from the way in which Fred Smith and Dick
Taylor removed a spontaneous Davidson sponsor. Elmer Layden’s remark between halves of the Notre Dame-Georgia Tech game, “What's the matter
with you guys; you look like a bunch of amateurs.”

In considering the trials and tribulations of the world, pity Tommy Johnston faced with the dilemma of a breach of
promise suit or a trip home without a small but valuable piece of hardware. Better hurry up and decide Tommy,
the fourteenth candle will soon be on her birthday cake.

This columnist wishes to wholeheartedly approve the unselfish, sharing spirit exhibited by Andy Dale this weekend. It is just little
things like this which give Davidson the tradition and reputation it has today. It was much superior to the actions
of Billy Jackson who maintained an early morning vigil, well fortified against any necessity, only to miss the story.

Seen at the Dances: Anne Rish with George Stowe, troubled by a chap lady dancing with Billy Crooks, “Bull” Durham,
George Mathis, and Johnny Sadler, the din of “quack quacks,” enjoying the dance without worries about the ticket receipts—Young Gish—leap
year story to awaken Prince Charming.

FROM A DRUM-MAJOR...
Dear Bill:I have a few things to say in regard to the football band that might interest some of the
students. I've been a drum-major of this organization for over three years and during that time I've heard various comments
on the activities of the band—some were favorable but the majority were otherwise. I've also observed the attitudes that have
been adopted toward the performances of the band and I believe that not all are entirely desirable. I may not
be alone in my conviction, but here's what I have to say:

The band usually drills for a week or more on a series of maneuvers to present to the public between
the halves of the Davidson football games, and when we've successfully concluded what we often consider top-notch performances, what do
we hear? A lot of fellows come right out and say “it stank terribly,” while others say it did all
right for the Davidson band. Usually, the question is “Did Pfohl think up dumb acts?” The right kind of criticism,
if received, is good, but I wish those who are so quick to condemn would be as quick to offer
some suggestions.

I want to take this opportunity to explain the peculiar antics of the band between the halves of the Carolina
game last Saturday. The series of “mistakes” we made were actually planned (believe it or not) but the literal interpretation
made by the spectators was NOT planned. We thought we had enough that appeared so serious, and in such quick
succession, that practically everybody finally would see that they were intentional. We made our REAL mistake in thinking thus because
practically no one understood what it was all about. The comments made and the questions asked afterwards have proved very
embarrassing, and to top it all, the indignation of several individuals has descended upon me for losing my temper on
the field, storming around, throwing down my baton, etc.

Before closing, I want to mention the intended rendezvous with Jim An- trying to turn Snow White into a to
other lips—Neal Scott and Dick Hudson harboring reptilic intentions—"Jeep” Gladden finding out that the way to a girl’s heart is
through her locket, especially it. No more “planned” mistakes for me!
—HENRY B. BAKER.

* * *

FACULTY ACTION ON KEYS...

Dear Bill:

During the last few months considerable amusement has arisen on campus from evidence that the local chapter of Phi Beta
Kappa has lowered its dignity in order to fight one of the literary societies and other local organizations over the
matter of watch keys. There is a slight similarity in the form of their keys which might reflect unearned honor
on the students in the local groups.

Presented by Lock Hunter—Paul Cooper and Julian Lokey striving hard all weekend for some sort of fraternity championship—Dave very preoccupied
with a young lady during a nocturnal walk—John Latimer getting a new high by asking eleven girls before getting a
date. “Little Ferret” Tenney now boasts the new monicker of “Alcatraz.” Just call him “Alkie.”

Sprunt In the Groove
By TOM PERRIN

SET-UP...

Theoretically, a dance weekend is a setup for the columnist. We got that from a veteran of both columns and
weekends. But it isn’t particularly true for us, to judge from the results of the recent festivities. All our agents
bring us is gossip. Legend has it, though, that Chubby King, who did something in the Snooper field last year,
functioned best just about one blink this side of sleep. Being in a semi-somnambulistic state yet ourselves, maybe we can
find words.

STORIES...

The dances did bring material of a sort, of course. There is the story, for instance, of the girl who
unpacked her suitcase to find inside only two tuxedos—no more. That must be the fate that can fall to a
girl—arriving for a dance set without her “things.” Then there was one, who, finding the picture of her escort in
an old annual, exclaimed: “Oh, you're in the Ministerial Band! What do you play?"

BAND...

Speaking of the Ministerial Band reminds us of the case of the freshman “Davidsonian” reporter who covered one of the
meetings of that group. He turned in a very nice story about the visiting pastor addressing the “Minstrel Band.” Those
rollicking troubadours!

FROSH...

Why freshmen get the credit for being so dumb when they are only nine months away from their intellectual prime—ask
any sophomore—is more than we can say. But after what we overheard at the Carolina game, we can't very well
defend the frosh. A couple of red-caps had watched Carolina’s Lalanne sling a smooth pass for a considerable gain. “Break
his arm,” screamed one. “Wouldn't do any good,” said the other, sadly but wisely. “He'd throw it with the other
arm. He's ambiguous.”

WONDERS OF THE WEEK...

How under the sun do girls manage to act and look so fresh after a dance set that leaves tough
athletes looking pretty wilted? And why can't the other half of the freshman class be induced to attend pep meetings?

I do not refer to recently elected student members when I say that an exaggerated concern has been shown over
just who may have the opportunity to show off their prowess along scholastic lines. The vaunted honor of the national
organization which must be protected at all costs suffers by contrast to this picayune quibbling. Other college chapters of Phi
Beta Kappa have been able to ignore the presence of the ‘infamous Kappa Beta Phi with its almost identical key.
Will the local chapter continue seriously in its action to abolish rival keys through appealing to faculty power? Ruskin said
that “in general, pride is at the bottom of all great mistakes.”
—HARDICANUTE.

* * *

LET’S FIGHT...

Dear Bill:

We're mad.

1. We're mad about what happened in chapel Monday morning. Certain individuals better get a dictionary and look up a
certain word. (Not saying what the word is, but it begins with “leadership.”)

2. We're mad about the soccer team. They seem to have been run off of the intramural field. Where have
they been forced to go? We saw them this afternoon, playing on the baseball field which was made at a
cost of much labor and not a little money for the less fortunate boys and men of the Unity Church
community. The community boys were generously letting the soccer team use their field while they played over to one side.
When we can’t be as generous to some of our students in providing them a place as those poverty-stricken folks
over there!
—FED UP.

* * *

AUDITING CLASSES...

Dear Editor:

Isn't it your impression that one of Davidson's purposes is to foster the spirit of individual initiative in its students?
That was my impression also, until I found that a certain tradition does not permit the full realization of this
purpose. This tradition dictates that, if a man wishes to attend a class without getting credit for his efforts, he
cannot do so. In other words, there is a rule against “auditing” or “sitting-in” on classes.

Most of us have but four years in which we can spend our time entirely in the pursuit of an
education. By the time we have reached our last year, we find that we have not been able to study
nearly everything that we wanted to. If we majored in the sciences, we discover that our thirst for the arts,
or social sciences, or even other sciences has merely been increased. On the other hand, a major in arts feels
the want of sciences. Of course, we can study these on our own, but that is no reason why we
must be refused the privilege of hearing our professors lecture on those subjects. At no other time in our lives
will we have such a chance to satisfy our intellectual desires, yet the college will not let us hear the
lectures and the valuable discussions in our effort to make the most of our opportunities.

What is meant by “auditing?” As I understand it, auditing is the attendance of classes in which a student is
not officially enrolled, so that he may get some value from the professor's lectures without feeling the pressure of an
additional class-load. The student does not appear on the roll, is not even a member of the class; he merely
visits and listens.

What are the advantages? First, it gives the student a chance to survey fields of knowledge which the present system
holds from him because of the time and load factors. Second, it permits a student to sit-in on a class
he has previously studied, so that he may further perfect himself in that subject. A student cannot possibly drink a
single course dry in a single term; auditing the class would permit him to gather much that had escaped him.

And the objections? First, such a practice would disturb classes. How many men, who are interested enough in a subject
to attend classes when not required to, are the type who disturb classes? A professor should feel complimented by such
a practice, not bothered. Second, auditing would be against tradition. This objection I cannot answer; for after all, the tradition
has stood the test of time. It was good enough for Father so it is good enough for me.

Progressive schools permit the practice. Why does Davidson resist progress?
—LLUB.

* * *

LOOKING BACKWARD

Dear Editor:

The first football coach at Davidson was employed in 1900. Prior to his arrival, Clemson beat Davidson 64 to 0.
The remaining games of that season told a different story. Davidson defeated State 17-0, S.C. 5-0, Ga. Tech 38-6. In
1910, under the coaching of Floyd Simmons of Charlotte, this was the unusual record: Davidson made 213 points to the
opponents' 36 as follows: Davidson 29, Catawba 0; Davidson 57, Lenoir 0; Davidson 6, V. P. I. 16; Davidson 6,
U. of N.C. 0; Davidson 12, W. & L. 14; Davidson 26, Charleston College 6; Davidson 93, U. of S.C.
0; Davidson 32, Wake Forest 0. This was an unusual team and was strengthened by the medical students who were
then at Davidson. They were older as there was no three-year rule in operation, so their age and experience were
of great value.

There are still plenty of good football players at Davidson and we have efficient coaches, but the competition is much
more formidable, for the southern teams are now playing a brand of football which is surpassed only perhaps by the
middle west.
—OLD TIMER.

What is forbearance but the spirit of tolerance shown when a man who knows patiently listens to a man who
doesn’t?

When the outgo exceeds the income, the upkeep is the downfall.
