Wednesday, November 30, 1938
THE DAVIDSONIAN
Page Three

Question of the Week
“What should Davidson’s future athletic policy be, especially with regard to football?”

During the year there has been much talk by students and others connected with the college concerning the possibility of
a change in athletic policy. There appear to be four alternatives: first, to continue as now with very limited subsidization
for athletics; second, to adopt an open subsidization policy such as Pitt and some other schools have done; third, to
drop out of a conference in which there are schools that have direct subsidization and which invariably beat us in
football; fourth, to drop football from our intercollegiate schedule. All of these methods have been tried by several schools, and
each has its own particular advantages and disadvantages. Below is what two members of each of Davidson's three upper classes
think about the whole situation.

Bill Beaty, Senior: “There are a number of good athletes who naturally should go to Davidson because of various connections
with the school who do not because of finances. If there were some way to help deserving athletes such as
these, I believe it would help the teams, while not hurting school spirit such as hired athletes would.”

Bill Hickman, Senior: “I think that Davidson should subsidize athletics, but do this carefully so as to maintain our school
spirit and school ranking.”

Rea Tenney, Junior: “I think that Davidson should drop out of the ‘Big Five’ and into a smaller conference made
up of teams such as Sewanee and Florida in the Southeastern Conference so as to preserve our high standing both
in scholarship and athletics.”

Karl Hudson, Junior: “Under the present policy of wholesale subsidization practiced by most colleges, Davidson cannot hope to successfully compete
against larger schools with money for such use. Either a form of recruiting players must be adopted or we must
retire to competition with schools whose athletic standards coincide with Davidson's ideals for amateur intercollegiate sports.”

Karl Jonas, Sophomore: “Considering the calibre of competition that Davidson meets and the open subsidization of her opponents, I believe
that Davidson should also go in for it in a modified way, choosing their athletes carefully, in order to preserve
the high standards established here.”

Chase Brenizer, Sophomore: “Davidson every year has some very good talent from its student body, but being a small college
we cannot possibly get a team from this source that will be comparable to those of larger schools and universities.
Since practically all schools do subsidize their players and since we ourselves do that to a limited extent, I believe
that Davidson should continue her present policy of limited subsidization. As to competing with larger schools, I think that Duke
and Carolina might be left off our schedule; plenty of good teams of strength could still be on the schedule.”

Jack Abernathy, Junior: “Of course no single student could attempt to formulate an athletic policy for Davidson, but it is
my honest belief that Davidson has two alternatives: either open subsidization as practiced by other Southern Conference members, or athletic
competition with schools of our size. Definitely the present system of playing ‘the Big Four’ cannot continue on its present
basis, and on the surface at least, it would seem that to play smaller schools with no ‘reputation’ will mean
practical financial ruin. Personally, I still believe that, rather than professionalize athletics any further, Davidson should attempt a reform movement.”

Toni Casali, Junior: “A losing football team hurts a college in many ways, and certainly if Davidson expects to play
the outstanding teams that dominate their schedule they will have to do something quick to have a winning eleven. The
only way seems to be through subsidization. Other schools are doing it—Wake Forest, N. C. State, and even Appalachian—so why
not Davidson. Of course it would be nice if the subsidized players could be not only football stars, but also
good students and the type of men that Davidson wants.”

There's a wide difference between investments that sound good and sound investments.

Club Meets With Watts
Newly Chosen Associates Present Play To Audience of Members

Le Cercle Francais held its November meeting at the home of Dr. G. B. Watts on Tuesday, Nov. 29. The
five newly chosen associate members were first introduced to the club, after which these men presented a one-act play and
a recital of a medieval poem for the evening entertainment.

One-Act Play Presented
The associate members were chosen from a field of fifteen candidates by means of competitive examinations. The examinations stressed proficiency
in syntax, dictation, conversation, and dramatic reading. On the first test Henry Bahnson, Joe Liles, and J. J. Barnhardt were
chosen, while in the run-off Drury Thompson and Fred Little were selected. The one-act play, Ceux Qui Passent, was presented
by Bahnson, Liles, Barnhardt, and Thompson, while Fred Little gave a recitation of a poem by Charles d’Orleans as well
as an essay on the poet's life. After this performance the new men were given the oath of associate members
by the President, John Reisner.

Competitive Conversation
A competition in French conversation was then held with the topic “What I Would Do During My First Week In
France” being discussed by two teams. Sidney Crane and Bob King captained these two teams and a lively competition resulted.
After this, the teams engaged in a contest on French geography in which neither group particularly shone.

Linguists On Florida Trip
South Atlantic Modern Language Association Holds Conference

Davidson was represented at the meetings of the South Atlantic Modern Language Association in Gainesville, Florida on November 25 and
26 by Prof. E. E. Erwin of the English Department, and by Dr. G. B. Watts and Dr. A. V.
Goldiere of the French Department.

Over 200 members were present, with Alabama, Florida, South Carolina, and North Carolina being represented. A large delegation from Georgia,
Louisiana was also present to observe the functioning of the association. The executive committee voted to accept the invitation of
Birmingham Southern College for the meetings to be held next year.

Erwin Speaks
Dr. Lyons of the English Department of the University of Florida was elected President. Prof. Erwin was a speaker at
the complimentary banquet given by the University of Florida, served on the committee of resolutions, and was named on the
committee to assist in the formation of the Gulf States Modern Language Association. Dr. Goldiere addressed the research section of
the French group, talking on Charles de Bernard, Disciple of Balzac. Dr. Watts served on the executive committee of the
Association and was chairman of the nominating committee of the French section. He was also appointed chairman of the committee
to represent the French section at the meetings of the American Association of Teachers of French to be held in
New York during the Christmas holidays.

DR. LINGLE AT BARIUM
Dr. Lingle attended a gathering of ministers and Sunday School workers of the Concord Presbytery held at Barium Springs last
Monday. President Lingle was one of those few to give addresses to the meeting. His topic for discussion was “The
Place of Ministers in Religious Education.”

Sponsors For Final Game
Pictured above are four girls who acted as sponsors for Davidson in their last game of the season, against Wake
Forest in Charlotte on Thanksgiving Day. Reading from left to right, they are: Top row: Miss Marguerite Vane of Johnson
City, Tenn., sponsor for Dave Warden; and Miss Virginia Hickman of Fort Smith, Arkansas, for Bob Benfield. Bottom row: Miss
Isabelle Anderson of Badin, for Bill Davis; and Miss Joyce Howell of Troy, for Horace McCall.

Alumni Present Money To D.C. Building Fund
Five Buildings To Be Built As Money Is Raised

Alumni from every class of which there are living members have subscribed to Davidson's Centennial Movement according to the latest
issue of the Alumni Journal.

Specified Buildings
The program includes five buildings, one of which is to be started sometime soon. As soon as the necessary money
is raised, there will be a new library, science building, church to be added to the present dormitory, gymnasium, and
other buildings on the campus. It has been announced that plans for a new dormitory will be laid out soon
and work will be started this year. Thus far a total of 1,293 graduates and students have given money to
the movement which totals $118,883.34. Fifty-eight of the one hundred and two classes that have entered Davidson have made gifts.
Besides this money, there has been $126,558.78 given from 1,617 friends other than Davidson.

Medical Exam
At the recent meeting of the Association of American Medical Colleges it was decided to discontinue giving spring supplementary tests.
In the light of the above, it is extremely necessary that all students who expect to enter medical school next
fall should take the test on December 2, 1938, for this will be their only opportunity for taking it. This
test measures one’s ability to learn material similar to that which will be encountered in medical school. The examination will
be held in room 124 of Chambers Building, at 2 o'clock Friday, December 2. This is the only examination in
which students can participate.Alumni, making a total of $345,442.12.

Largest Gift
The largest single gift is $50,000 given by a person who has asked that his name be withheld from print.
This was used to establish a professorship. The other two largest gifts were from Mr. H. Smith Richardson who gave
$25,000 to be used in an addition to the stadium which has been completed, and an anonymous gift of $25,000.

The class of '32 has the distinction of having given the largest amount at present, 35 members of that class
have given $4,590 to the Centennial Movement. Close behind is the class of '28 with 49 members. The oldest class
having subscribed is the class of 1873, of which 2 members gave $1,150.

VISIT WHITE DRUG STORE
DAVIDSON, N. C.
PROMPT AND EFFICIENT
“DAVIDSON’S OLDEST AND BEST”

Victor, Brunswick, Decca, Vocalion Bluebird 35c—75c Each. Any record not in stock can be quickly secured. Phone 8257.

PARKER-GARDNER CO.
Pianos-Radios-Accordions—Since 1898
Charlotte, N. C.

Is Given Soon
Stud Store Sells Liquid By Gallons
Statistics Show Enormous Amount of Thirst Satisfiers Consumed
By ALBERT WINN

And it came to pass in those days that the men of the tribe of Davidson lifted up their eyes
and gazed over the face of the land. And behold they saw coming towards them a great chariot, painted red
as the color of the sun when it riseth in the east.

Strange Invading Chariot
Now in those days there was come a sojourner for to dwell in the land with the tribe of Davidson.
And when he had seen what came to pass and how the chariot drew near unto the Stud Store, he
asked of those round about him, saying, “What is the meaning of this strange chariot, red like the color of
the sun when it riseth in the east?” They answered, “Freshman, it is a Coca Cola truck.” “Forsooth,” said he,
“do the men of the tribe drink of this stuff even by the truckload?”

Guzzle Gallons
“Yea, verily,” they replied, “and it is written in the book of Statistics that the Davidsonites do guzzle some 393
gallons of Coca Cola in the passing of a month.” Scarcely had these words been spoken when behold another chariot
drew near, white like the color of the snows on Mount Hermon. Now when the sojourner had inquired diligently about
this chariot and other such things as he had never seen, he was informed on this wise.

Milk Heads List
Therefore, according to the tablets of the mathematicians, 4,333 bottles of milk are drunk each month, together with 6,333 Coca
Colas. And all the bottles after their generations contain upwards of 664 gallons.

Many Bottles
These bottles, if one were to lay them end to end, would reach one mile and the fourth part of
a mile again. Now when the sojourner heard these sayings (are they not written in the book of Munnebagz?) he
went away sorrowing, for he was broke and a great thirst had gat hold upon him.

Phis To Have Party
Members of the Philanthropic Literary Society are planning for a big Christmas party to be held on next Tuesday night,
December 6th. The varied program will include a Christmas oration, “Christmas Around the World,” to be delivered by one of
the members, Christmas carols, to be sung by the entire society, a visit of a real Santa Claus, and the
presentation of a choric speaking group, the only one of its kind ever to be present on the campus. Following
the program refreshments will be enjoyed around a lighted Christmas tree.

CAMERAS
Photograph Supplies
W. I. VAN NESS
N. Tryon St.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

DeLuxe Ice Cream
Mooresville, N. C.
Phone 56
Visit Us At Any Hour
A Home For Davidson Students
“THE ROADHOUSE”

Coca Cola to the sum of 130 shekels, milk to the sum of 190 shekels, and divers other liquids, the
sum of which hath not been computed, are guzzled by the Davidsonites every month. (Now a shekel is called in
that land a buck, or some say a smacker).

DAVIDSON MEN GO TO BARIUM SPRINGS GAME
Many Davidson students took advantage of the invitation of the Barium Springs Orphanage to attend the Barium-Concord football game last
Friday. The invitation was issued by Mr. Joseph Johnston, head of the orphanage, and was read by Student Body President
Fred Stair in chapel. The students journeyed to Barium Springs where they were admitted free to the game. Barium was
the winner, 15 to 6.

Unity Church To Give Play
To Be Part Of New Recreational and Cultural Program
The Davidson Unity Church will present a Christmas Cantata on the evening of December 25th. This cantata will bring to
a close the Christmas Season Celebration of the community. It is a part of the newly sponsored recreational and cultural
program by the appointed Recreation Council. The choir which will present the cantata is made up of the various organizations
of the church. The Men's Bible Class, the Women's Bible Class, the Young People’s League, the Young Men's Bible Class,
and the Intermediate Young People's League will all have part in the program. The cantata will be a musical composition
made up of the work of the members of a Cantata Committee appointed by the Recreation Council. It consists of
the following members of the community and students of Davidson College: Mr. J. A. Farrington, Mrs. B. B. Mayhew, Mrs.
Paul Cerley, Miss Sybil Stone, Earl Copes, Norris Edwards, Crane and Williams.

Hi-Y To Send Eleven Boys To Conference
The YMCA Older Boys’ Conference of the Carolinas will be held in Greensboro, December 2-3-4, under the auspices of the
Interstate Committee of the YMCA. From the local Hi-Y Club eleven boys will be delegates to the meetings. Locke White
and J. R. Jones, advisors of the Davidson High School organization will also attend. Officers of the group are Ed
Erwin, president; Price Gwynn, vice president; Joe Jolson, treasurer; Dux Pharr, secretary. Ed Erwin is also the leader of the
county Hi-Y. A program has been planned for the conference and several distinguished men will render addresses. The keynote address
will be delivered by Dr. Hornell Hart of the Dept. of Sociology at Duke University.

The Perfect Gift
Give Genuine ENGRAVED STATIONERY
Wiss Weave
Lowest Prices 99¢ Up
LAST CHANCE TO ORDER THIS WEEK
DICK FUNKHOUSER
113 East

Special! Order At Once!
50 PERSONAL CHRISTMAS CARDS, $1.00

Vesper Service Led By Rev. Chas. Woodbridge
“The Rebirth Of Man” Is Subject Of Prominent Salisbury Pastor
The Reverend Charles J. Woodbridge, Pastor of the 1st Presbyterian Church of Salisbury, delivered the Sunday Evening Vesper Sermon, November
27, using as his subject “The Rebirth of Man.” Reverend Woodbridge’s text was II Corinthians 5:17. “Wherefore if any man
is in Christ, he is a new creature: the old things are passed away: behold, they are become new.”

Two Ideas Presented
The minister presented two distinct ideas in which man becomes right with God: The human idea—is the one in which
man believes that we are able to become better gradually, until we can enter the kingdom of Heaven. This idea
is false; it is embodied in all religions, except the Christian religion. Man cannot drag himself up into the kingdom
of God. The second idea is the divine idea, in which we become right with God through the divine miracle
of grace.

Three Divisions Discussed
The content of the sermon, as outlined by the minister, was based on three divisions. The first point, what God
said about the miracle of faith, was illustrated by three instances from the Bible: The picture of birth—which showed that
God is the responsible person with whom we must become right; The picture of the blind man receiving his sight—which
showed physical and spiritual awakening; and the picture of resurrection from death unto life, of which God is the only
one capable of doing. The second point was what God said about the basis of miracles. Christ becomes the bearer
of our sins.

Smart!
COVERT TOPCOATS $22.49
Single breasted balmacaans in rich brown and green effects, expertly tailored models

TIMELY CLIMATEER OVERCOATS $35.00
TIMELY TUX and TAILS $35.00
MEN’S CLOTHING
Street Floor
BELK BROS. CO.
