CAT-TALES By TONI CASALI

Davidson's oldest rivals—the University of North Carolina Tar Heels—will make their appearance on the campus next Saturday. Relations between these two schools started way back in 1896 when the N. C. Meds trounced the Davidson Meds 4-0. Since then, Carolina and Davidson have met 32 times. The Wildcats, however, have been on the darker side of the picture throughout the series. Carolina held the Wildcats scoreless until 1910 when Davidson scored a lone touchdown and edged out a 6-0 win. As Dame Fortune would have it, the ‘Cats were unable to win in the next decade and not until 1920 did they finally come out on top with a 7-0 victory for their next win. The 1926 State Champion Wildcats rolled up 10 points (Davidson's highest score) and held the Tar Heels scoreless. Davidson's last win came in 1930 by a 7-0 score. The Tar Heels have scored an aggregate of 425 points to the Wildcats’ 70 throughout the years. Two scoreless ties, one in 1906 and the other in 1908, are also among the records.

Davidson will not have much of a chance to beat the boys from Chapel Hill Saturday, but it will be the best game that the students will be able to see on Richardson Field this year with the possible exception of the Homecoming game with V.M.I. Davidson’s offense has worked something like this in the five games to date: The 'Cats have carried the ball 186 times and gained 850 yards while losing 79. This gives them an average of better than four yards per try. In the passing department, Davidson boasts of better than a 50 percent average. They have thrown 59 aerials, completed 30 for a gain of 361 yards. However, the dark side of the passing attack is the fact that 12 of these tosses were pulled out of the air by opposing forces. Anyway, 12 yards on each completed pass is not a bad showing—not when one out of every two is completed.

The kicking situation looks thus: Davis and Steed have booted the ball 32 times for a total of 1,164 yards from scrimmage, which gives them an average of 36 yards on each kick. The Wildcats have been penalized only 14 times for a total loss of 130 yards. On the other hand, the ’Cats have been fortunate to have 21 penalties called against opposing teams for losses of 205 yards. These statistics look pretty good and are good enough to beat ordinary teams when the breaks are with the 'Cats, but North Carolina with Lalanne, and George Watson heads the defensive work in the line that only Tulane has been able to do much with so far this year. And to top it off, he scored a touchdown and kicks the extra point. George Stirnweis, Jack Kraynick, “Sweet” Lalanne in the backfield, and Captain Steve Maronic, a gigantic tackle, will be tough for anyone even to fick Duke. Co-incidentally, while on the subject of backs, nothing but praise can be handed to South Carolina’s flaming soph, Al Grygo, for his performance against Davidson last week—especially on punt returns. He made some of the neatest runs against a broken field much in the manner of our famed Teeny Lafferty. 

This week’s picks (or guesses), due to their good luck in picking them last week, were made by the same three lads who picked Tennessee to lick Alabama—Rut Miller, Blair Miller, and Harry Gasteiger. They only missed about four out of the bunch and consequently should be rated in a class with “Athletic Al,” Charlotte Observer ace picker. Winners in capitals: ALABAMA—Sewanee, AUBURN—Georgia Tech, BAYLOR—Texas A. and M., ARMY—Boston U., BUCKNELL—Albright, NOTRE DAME—Carnegie Tech, TENNESSEE—Citadel, CLEMSON—South Carolina, COLGATE—Iowa U., COLUMBIA—Pa. U., CORNELL—Penn State, DARTMOUTH—Harvard, NORTH CAROLINA—Davidson, DETROIT—Villanova, DUKE—Wake Forest, APPALACHIAN—Elon, FORDHAM—Oregon, N. C. STATE—Furman, HOLY CROSS—Georgia, MISS. COL.—Oglethorpe, NORTHWESTERN—Illinois, N. Y. U.—Lafayette, L. S. U.—Vanderbilt, MISS. STATE—Duquesne, NAVY—Princeton, OHIO STATE—Chicago, NEBRASKA—Okla. U., PURDUE—Wisconsin, RICE—U. of Texas, SANTA CLARA—Arkansas, SOUTH. CALIF.—Stanford, PITTSBURG—South. Methodist, TULANE—Mercer, V. M. I.—William and Mary, W. and L.—Virginia Poly, WEST VA.—MICHIGAN—Yale, SYRACUSE—Creighton, Michigan State.

Kap Sigs, Fijis, and Sig Eps Win Games

Interfraternity touch football started with a bang last Wednesday when the Sig Eps won over the Pikas 12-0. The Phi Gams, Phi Delts, and Kappa Sigs were the other winners of the week. Charlie Sample intercepted one of Joe Shelton’s passes early in the first half and scooted 40 yards across the Pika goal for the first touchdown of the day. Later in the same half, Sample flung a pass that Johnny Tice pulled out of the air and streaked down the sidelines for another touchdown, clinching the game.

Thursday, the Phi Delts overwhelmed the KA’s by the score of 24-0. Last year’s co-champions scored three times in their first six plays on passes from Hunter to Boyd, Dale, and Masquess, and led 18-0 at the half. Then another touchdown pass, Boyd to Marquess in the second half, put the game on ice. The second game on Thursday found the Phi Gams eking out a victory over the Pi Kaps 6-0. A 50-yard pass from George Jones was pulled down over the goal by Ralph Stair in a beautiful catch. 

Monday, the Kappa Sigs proved their power by defeating the SAE’s 6-0 on a pass from Jim Hogg to Apple Means. Last Tuesday, the Seniors clinched third place behind the Juniors by beating the Sophomores 6-0, and the Sophomores beat the Frosh that same day.

Advertising is more valuable and more effective in dull times than in flush times because there is less of it. No man, however insignificant he looks, questions your judgment when you tell him he looks distinguished. Almost any motorist will gladly give a woman driver half the road if he can find out which half she wants. The trouble with most of us is that we are too fond of people who agree with us and with food that doesn’t.

DeLuxe Ice Cream
Mooresville, N. C. Phone 56

Unsung Hero

When a Davidson back makes a gain, it is often Bob McClellan who is out in front clearing the path. Bob, twice a letterman, also backs up the line capably on defense.

Tenney, Shore Lead Tourney

Rea Tenney, first-seeded in the Fall Tennis Tournament, entered the quarter-finals by beating Wilson Northcross 6-0, 6-1. Dick Shore, the only other quarter-finalist so far, has beaten Locke Hunter. The winner of the George Jones-Ed Cloyd match will be the third quarter-finalist. The member of this bracket will be decided when the other contestants play back matches. The seeded players have advanced thus far with only one exception. Locke Hunter was defeated by Dick Shore, a member of last year's freshman team, in the third round in the tourney’s first upset. The only freshmen to reach the third round are Davis and Thomas. None of the other matches in the second round have been played as yet.

Duke Defeats Cat Harriers

Davidson's cross-country varsity bowed to Duke Saturday 38-20 in a much-improved meet against the Blue Devils in Durham. Captain Dave Woodward and BobWalker of Davidson broke the course record by over half a minute as they crossed the finish line together in 21:46. However, Brett, Capt. Hauser, Jones, Johnson, and Monroe crossed the line in that order before the next Davidson man finished. Gammon finished eighth and Kellogg and Brown tenth and eleventh, respectively, to complete the Davidson scoring. The eight Davidson men making the trip were: Woodward, Walker, Gammon, Kellogg, Telford, Brown, Lemmon, and Brenizer. The North Carolina’s Conference Southern champs will meet here Saturday morning, while the Davidson harriers face the “B” team.

BEAUTIFUL PERSONAL CHRISTMAS CARDS
50 Assorted, Lovely Designs for a Dollar. Best Quality $2.00.
DAVID NICHOLS & CO.
Rockmart, Ga.

WHERE CAMERA ENTHUSIASTS MEET
Holly Smith
CAMERAS AND PHOTOGRAPHIC SUPPLIES
106 S. Church—Phone 3-4302
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

CAMERAS
Photographic Supplies
W. I. Van Ness & Co.
North Tryon
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

All Set To Handle the Crowd of the CAROLINA - DAVIDSON GAME
S. & W. Cafeteria
Charlotte, N. C.

THE DAVIDSONIAN
Cats Ready For Battle With Heels
Carolina Tar Heels Reign as Heavy Favorites

Up and Coming Davidson's Wildcats meet the University of North Carolina Tar Heels on Richardson Field Saturday afternoon in their annual football game. Coming in the midst of the homecoming dances, this game promises to draw the largest crowd of the year thus far. Carolina, with only one defeat and three victories, will go into the game as heavy favorites over Davidson, who have won two and lost three this season. Last week, Carolina came back from a defeat by the Tulane Green Wave to defeat New York University 7-0 in Yankee Stadium, New York City. Previously, the Tar Heels had conquered Wake Forest and N. C. State in Big Five engagements.

Tubby Hand, a 165-pound line-smasher, is probably the most improved back on the squad this season. The hard-driving plunger also shines as a defensive halfback. Lelanne, Kraynick, Stirnweiss, and Watson will provide plenty of trouble for the Davidson forward wall and secondary as all four are always definite threats. Davidson, after beating Citadel in their opener, went down before a heavier State team in Charlotte on Sept. 24, and defeated Duke at Durham on the following Saturday. On Oct. 8, they went down 33-0 before Erskine. Last Saturday, Davidson held South Carolina in check for two periods but lost when the Gamecocks scored thrice in the second half to win 25-0 in a Friday afternoon game at Sumter, South Carolina.

State and Wake Forest met in Raleigh last Saturday night in the most important Big Five encounter of the weekend, with the Wolfpack gaining a clear-cut 19-7 majority. Art Rooney led the Wolves to victory with a great triple-threat performance. It was simply a contest between two powerful teams with State’s power predominating.

Duke’s Frosh Trim Kittens
The Blue Devils defeated Davidson's Wildkittens 6-0 in Durham Friday afternoon. Playing leading roles in the Tar Heels' victory over N. Y. U's Violets in Yankee Stadium, New York, were sophomores. A strong South Carolina team took Davidson by a 25-0 count in Sumter Friday. Dame Fortune and a sophomore back named Grygo enabled the Gamecocks to attain a four-touchdown margin over the Cats. Carolina leads the Big Five at present with victories over State and Wake Forest and no losses. Duke holds second place with a win over Davidson and no defeats. State is third over Davidson and Wake Forest.

Duke outgained Davidson by 308 net yards to 31 and completed 7 of 11 passes for a total of 153 yards as compared to Davidson's 6 out of 16 for 94 yards.

STARTS FRIDAY, Oct. 21st
The “screwiest” football comedy hit since “Pigskin Parade!”
“HOLD THAT CO-ED”
With...
John Barrymore
Marjorie Weaver
George Murphy
Joan Davis
Jack Haley

Plan now to see our big Halloween Spook Show, Sunday night, Oct. 30th.

“BROTHER RAT”
With...
WAYNE MORRIS
PRISCILLA LANE

Printing is our Business
A COMPLETE Printing service as near as your telephone. For a representative, Dial 3-5727
Printers of The Davidsonian
STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
ESTABLISHED 1907
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Wildcat Second Half Power Halted As Gamecocks Show Strength

South Carolina’s powerful Gamecocks came through with three touchdowns in the second half to beat the Davidson College eleven in Sumter last Friday afternoon. Reserves proved to be the margin of victory because Davidson outplayed the Birds in the first half only to find that they could not cope with the fresh supply of power that Coach Rex Enright threw against them in the second half. Also, the heat was a big factor for the poor showing of the ‘Cats, because in the final quarter they were too weary to chase after the fleet Carolina backs.

Davidson capitalized on the first break of the game when they recovered a fumble on the Gamecock 28-yard line on the kick-off. From there, Davidson marched in three line plays to a first down, but on the next play, Arrowsmith intercepted a pass from Bill Davis on his own 5 and ran 90 yards before he was pulled down from behind by Tubby Hand on the Davidson 5-yard stripe.

Steed, Hand Pace Backs
Davis and Steed Have 38 Yd. Punt Average

Tubby Hand and Archie Steed had the highest averages for ball-carriers last week in the South Carolina game at Sumter with an average of about five yards each. Hand carried the ball five times for twenty-six yards and Steed made seventy-two yards in fourteen tries. Bill Davis ran twenty-one times from scrimmage and gained a net forty-eight yards. Davis also punted five times for thirty-nine yards per kick, while Steed booted the ball twice for a thirty-eight yard average.

Re-Weaving Service
Burns and Tears Rewoven
501 Independence Bldg.
Charlotte, N. C.

VARSITY-TOWN’S DETAIL MAKES THIS “BAL” COAT SMARTER
THIRD FLOOR

BRING HER IN Over the Week-End
We’d Like to Meet Her
Candies .. Magazines .. Stationery
“DAVIDSON’S OLDEST AND BEST”
WHITE DRUG CO.
Davidson, N.C.

Anytime
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

WIDER Shoulders
LONGER Coats
CLOSER Waists
WIDER Lapels

SEE THE NEW WOOLENS
They Make Up Perfectly in the New DRAPE Models
J. O. JONES, Inc.

ROLLS DEVELOPED
Any size roll kodak film developed, eight never-fade Velox prints for only 25¢.
VALUABLE PREMIUMS GIVEN
MAIL YOUR FILMS TO
Jack Rabbit Co.
SPARTANBURG, S. C.