‘CAT-TALES By TONI CASALI DAVIDSON

WEDNESDAY, NOV. 23, 1938

Davidson will meet her oldest and bitterest rivals, Wake Forest’s Demon Deacons, in the final game of the year tomorrow. From all indications, it will be the best game of the year as several vital facts depend upon the outcome of the game. A win for either team would shove the other into the cellar position of the Big Five race. Victory for either team would mean that they have had a successful season. The Deacs rate as heavy favorites and Davidson's chance for a win slimmer as game time draws near. The ‘Cats will enter the fracas with several men on the ailing list, and it will mark the first time this season that they have not been able to put their full strength on the field. Captain Dave Warden and Fred Stair are nursing infected hands, Ned Iverson is limping with an injured leg, Bill Beaty is having trouble with an old knee injury, and Harry Gasteiger probably won't get in the game because of an internal injury. Nevertheless, the Deacs will know that they are in a ball game, and the ‘Cats will pit every available trick against the Deacons' sophomore power.

Wake Forest’s season has been none too successful to date as they have won only three games, lost five, and tied one, but they have licked several elevens to which the 'Cats have lost. The Deacs, coming back late in the final minutes of the game, spanked South Carolina 20-19, and a couple of weeks later the Gamecocks licked Davidson 25-0. V.M.I., who whipped the 'Cats 19-6, could do no better than a 6-6 tie with the Demons. Then, too, the Deacs put up some mighty good battles against Duke, Carolina, and Clemson, the three best teams in North and South Carolina. Wake Forest's coaches, even if they haven’t won a majority of their games, are not by any chance weeping. They have strictly a sophomore team that in two years will be giving Duke and Carolina plenty of trouble. In their backfield loom potential All-Southerners. This boy Tony Gallovich has a sixth sense for picking holes in opposing lines and then darts through like a Mack truck. George Wirtz, who had plenty to do with that 19-7 licking the Deacs handed Davidson last year, is back and better than ever. Marshall Edwards handles the line-plunging duties well and comes back for more with his brilliant line backing. Red Mayberry, the most-talked-about kicker in the Carolinas, is just as good as advance dope sets him up to be. Mayberry and Gallovich take turns about in the running position, one going in when the other comes out. Jimmy Ringgold is the other starting sophomore in the backfield. Although the backfield looks strong, Wake Forest's strength lies in its powerful line. John Jett, a six-feet, five-inch, 220-pound end, is a block of granite on the defense and turns to a dangerous pass-snagger on the offensive. Allen Powers and Louis Trunzo, aided greatly by Tom Tingle and Rupert Pate, give the center of the line great defensive power. And the thing about this team is that most of them will be back to haunt Davidson teams in the future.

Even with such an opponent looming in front of them, the ’Cats are determined to make up for that stinging defeat the Deacs handed them last year. Since 1908, the first year that the teams met, upsets have been numerous. Since 1931, the favored team has never won! Davidson, by far, has had the best of the argument, winning 14, losing only six, and tying four. Davidson also ran up the largest score, 73-7, in 1917.

Let’s have a look at the statistics in Davidson’s nine games to date. The ’Cats have run the ball 369 times, gaining 1485 yards and losing 178, giving them a net yardage of 1317 or a 3.6 average each rush. In the passing department, Davis and Steed have tossed 119 aerials, completed 42 for 703 yards. Rival teams have intercepted 21 of these tosses, and Davidson has intercepted seven opposing aerials and run them back 87 yards. Punt returns show that the 'Cats have run 53 back for 328 yards. In the kicking department, Davis and Steed have outclassed all their opponents with an average of 37.4 on each kick. They have punted 67 times for 2509 yards. The 'Cats have scored 15 touchdowns, converted only six of the extra points, and have tossed rival backs behind their goal lines for two safeties. Those figures show a successful campaign. In the win and loss column, the ’Cats have won four and lost five. Out of these five losses, however, Duke, Carolina, N. C. State, and Virginia Military Institute were to be expected. So you see, after all, Davidson has had a fairly good season, and a win over Wake Forest tomorrow would make a lot of sour grapes turn sweeter!

Be sure and send in your All-State selections to the Charlotte Observer and Greensboro Daily News.

Fijis Win Badminton Frat Ball Nears Finish

Phi Gams, Kappa Sigs, Phi Delts Lead Football

Interfraternity Badminton came to a conclusion Monday with the Phi Gams on top of the race. The Sig Eps finished a close second, and the Phi Delts came third. The Phi Gams and Phi Delts moved into the lead in touch football along with the Kappa Sigs by virtue of the win of the Phi Delts over the Kappa Sigs. Each of these teams now have six wins and one loss.

The Kappa Sig-Phi Delt tussle proved to be the most crucial game of the week, with the Phi Delts winning by the margin of three first downs to one even though the score stood 6-6. The Kappa Sigs scored on the last play of the first half on a pass from Jim Hogg to Tom Yarborough, but in the second half, the Phi Delts came back to rack up three first downs, and on the last play of the game, Andy Dale jumped high in the air to drag down one of Bill Boyd’s passes over the goal. Other games of the week found the Phi Gams and the Phi Delts both licking the S.A.E.’s by the score of 6-0. A pass from Dick Shore to Blair Miller scored for the Phi Gams, while a pass from Lock Hunter to Andy Dale proved the winning margin for the Phi Delts.

Nowadays, some of the most prettily varnished heads seem to have the worst inside fittin’s.

He who tells me of my faults is my teacher; he who tells me of my virtues does me harm.

It’s easy to love justice when it is meted out to the other fellow.

(Continued on Page Six)

“The Well Dressed Man Wears A Hat”

NATIONAL HAT SHOP
108 South Tryon Street
Charlotte, N. C.

Last Game As Sharpe Stars

All-Americans Outplay Heavier Catawba Gridders In Thrilling Tilt

Several hundred spectators saw Davidson’s potent Beest-ers close out their season Thursday on Richardson Field by defeating heavy Catawba B aggregation, 25-7. It was the third successive win for the Wildcat Bees, after losing their opener to the Freshman team. The 'Cats reserves jumped into the lead quickly and were holding an 18-0 advantage over the Indians at the end of the first quarter by virtue of a 9 yd. reverse, a 30 yd. pass, and a punt blocked at midfield by Dan Cagle.

Sharpe Stars

Sharpe made the first two scores for Davidson and Ellis the third after taking a lateral from Hicks, who had run the blocked punt back 35 yds. on the Catawba 3. Pharr scored the last Wildcat touchdown in the second quarter on a short buck, after Summerall had set the drive in motion by blocking a kick. Hunterbucked over for the extra point. Hershner, Catawba left half, scored on the last play of the game on a pass from Simonetti. Davidson stars included Pharr, Sharpe, Hunter, Capt. Ellis, Hicks, and Cagle in the line.

SPORTS
’Cats Meet Deacons For 25th Time
THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Four

Bone Crusher Score by Periods
Catawba: 0 0 0 7 - 7
Davidson: 7 7 7 4 - 25

Scoring: Touchdowns: Sharpe (2), Ellis, Pharr. Extra Point: Hunter (buck). Catawba: Touchdown: Hershner. Extra Point: Surrat (Placement).

Substitutes: Davidson: Balsley, Vereen, Powell, Gammon, McDaniel, Plonk, Woodward, Ferguson, Pratt, Beester, Burwell, Carpenter.

Davidson Kits Lick Wofford
Davidson's Yearlings won their fifth game of the season Thursday afternoon in Spartanburg as they ran rampant over the Wofford Frosh, 30-0. Dave Spencer led the Kittens’ victory march with scoring runs of sixty and thirty yards. Claude Hackney and Jack Simonds scored the last two markers on a 40-yard jaunt through tackle and a 30-yard pass from Spencer, respectively. Big Stan Yoder added two extra points by conversion and a 25-yard field goal. Bob Smith converted to complete the Frosh scoring. George Marsh and Bill Sprunt played sixty-minute ball at the guards for Davidson and were ably abetted by the play of Elmer Knoeller, a 200-pounder, at tackle. Hackney, Spencer, and Simonds shone offensively in the backfield for Davidson, with Yoder backing up the line well and accounting for numerous first downs with short line bucks. With this victory, the Frosh closed their most successful season in a decade here, losing only to Duke’s great yearling aggregation. The Kits bowled over four other outside opponents—Blue Ridge, P.J.C., Wingate, and Wofford—besides winning over the Championship Wildcat Beesters in their opener.

Passes Prove Best Weapon
Statistics for Davidson's completed schedule to date reveal that passing has been the ’Cats' best offensive weapon with the punting department not far behind. To date, the Davidsons have tossed 119 aerials for a total of 703 yards and an average of .437 made good. The average yardage per pass is 5.8. The punting of Davis and Steed has exceeded 37 yards a try so far, with one game to go. The two have kicked 67 times for a total yardage of 2,509 or about a mile and a half. Rushing has gained 1,317 yards net with the Davidson backs carrying the mail 369 times for an average of 3.6 yards. In the punts and kick-offs returned department, intercepted passes have yielded the greater average gain. The Wildcats have intercepted 7 tosses for 87 yards, an average of 12.4 yards a time. 53 kick returns have been run back for 328 yards, an average of 6.2 yards. To date, the Wildcats have scored an even hundred points in nine games, which is an average of 11.1 points a game. The highest score in any one game was in the Erskine game in which the Davidsons made 33 points. For Catawba, Capt. Carroll and Jacobi were outstanding.

Starting Line-Ups
Davidson: Beesters
Catawba: Bill Bolin, stalwart fullback from Knoxville, Tenn., is in his second year of varsity competition on the Wildcat team. Sharing the heavy duties of line backer-up and blocking back with Bob McClellan, Bill packs 169 pounds of dynamite for opposing players. Bill has played consistent ball all season and will see much service in the annual Turkey Day classic with the Demon Deacons.

Davidson: King
Catawba: Ravershire
Davidson: Cagle
Catawba: Surrat
Davidson: Ciminersi
Catawba: Gatty
Davidson: Garrone
Catawba: Ellis
Davidson: Billig
Catawba: Quick
Davidson: Priest
Catawba: Simonetti
Davidson: Winters
Catawba: Jacobi
Davidson: Sharpe
Catawba: Hershner
Davidson: Pharr
Catawba: Ferebe

Cat Harriers Run Third
Walker and Dave Woodward led the Wildcat cross-country varsity to a third place behind the powerful Carolina and Maryland teams in the Southern Conference meet. Hitting their stride once more, the harriers showed strength by defeating Duke and Washington and Lee. Walker finished in fifth position in the five-mile race, which Captain Bill Hendrix of Carolina ran in record time. Woodward completed the rain-swept circuit close behind in ninth place. Bob Kellogg was sixteenth in the running, and Reid Patterson and Eldridge Brown tied for 26th and 27th to complete Davidson's score. Dan Gilliam and Bob King tied in 32nd place. Though hindered by the loss of Dick Gammon, Bill Telford, Chase Trenizer, and Bill Lemmon during the season, the varsity finished the schedule well. Third place indicates a superiority in conference over a large number of conference schools with cross-country teams. The number of injuries has been unusual this year while last year there were none. The Wildcat runners were particularly glad to triumph over Duke University in the conference meet, a team which won earlier in the season by a close score. Woodward, Walker, Telford, King, and Patterson graduate this year. Kellogg, Gammon, and Brown will be the returning lettermen, and they should receive strong support from the freshmen who ran this fall. The record stands with six wins and four losses in dual meets.

Rise And Shine
You ought to know “THE TAVERN” well enough by this time to know that everything’ll be as you like it for Thanksgiving festivities. So we're just overlooking all the detailed memos the Chef has been giving us about menus and such, and trusting you to leave it to us; we know you, and we believe we know about what you'll want, and how. We propose to have it just that way! But would you like to try our Main Dining Room, for a change? The table d’hote dinners cost little more, the service is more elaborate and a bit fussier, but lots of people do like it better, especially if they're entertaining guests. Take it under advisement; Thanksgiving Day would be a good time to get acquainted with it, if the idea hits you. DINNER - TIME! Tavern of Hotel Charlotte

Cats Meet Deacons In Thanksgiving Tilt; Davidson Underdogs
Clash Will Be Twenty-Fifth Between ’Cats and Deacs; Wake Forest Favored But Davidson Boasts Most Impressive November Record

Davidson closes its current season on Thanksgiving Day in Charlotte as they battle the favored Wake Forest Deacons at Legion Field in their annual Turkey Day classic. The ’Cats, having won only four starts this year, will go into the fray as the underdogs. Several of their first-stringers will be held back with injuries. Last year the Davidsons were strongly favored to win, but the Demon Deacons upset the dope and pulled out a 19-7 victory. Favored, however, this time, the Wake Foresters appear to be too strong for the ailing Wildcats, but in this annual Turkey Day classic anything is to be expected. George Wirtz is back to renew the attack he led last year when he sparked his team to a two-touchdown margin of victory. Supporting him will be Marshall Edwards, a pile-driving line-plunger, Tony Gallovich, the snake-hipped speed merchant, and Red Mayberry who backs up his long-range kicking toe with accurate passing and long runs.

Past Scores
Davidson - Wake Forest
Year
31 - 4 1908
32 - 0 1910
13 - 7 1912
6 - 0 1913
7 - 6 1914
21 - 7 1915
73 - 7 1917
21 - 0 1919
27 - 7 1920
6 - 6 1922
0 - 6 1923
7 - 6 1925
3 - 3 1926
13 - 13 1927
6 - 25 1928
0 - 6 1929
2 - 13 1930
0 - 7 1931
7 - 0 1932
20 - 13 1933
13 - 12 1934
14 - 7 1935
14 - 6 1936
7 - 19 1937

Total: Davidson 343 - Wake Forest 191

Davidson: Beesters
Catawba: Deacons
Davidson: John Jett, six-foot-five end
Catawba: Pete Hard, charging guard
Davidson: Owen Bow
Catawba: Tack

The record stands with six wins and four losses in dual meets. [Continued on Page Six]

THE BEST SELLER
GENUINE Overcoats $25.00
ONE MAN’S REASON...
“It looks and feels like a $50 coat.”
5 OTHER REASONS
Warmth Without Weight.
Tested for Wear.
1938 Tailoring Refinements.
Large Assortment of Colors.
Luxurious Full Lining.
Exclusive With
Men’s Shoes Street Floor
Men’s Shoes Street Floor