CAT-TALES By TONI CASALI

V.M.I. this coming Saturday will bring a classy eleven against Davidson’s Wildcats here. Paul Shu, brilliant junior who gained All-Southern
last year, is one of the best all-round backs in the conference. Captain Andy Trezciak, Bud Kovyar, and Shelby round
out the backfield quartet for the Cadets. Dick Strickler heads the line that is the best to represent the school
in many a year. The Cadets, however, have had plenty of trouble on North Carolina soil this year. They have
played twice, once in Charlotte against Clemson and once in Raleigh against Wake Forest. Both games have resulted in ties.

It will be a big day Saturday, Homecoming with all the old grads pouring in from all parts of the
country to watch the game. As usual, Davidson is rated as the underdogs, but ask members of the varsity squad—they
seem to think that there is a surprise in store. The squad is in good shape, and in good spirit,
and will be in there with only one motive in mind—to win. Records show that Davidson and V.M.I. have met
19 times. The 'Cats have won nine games and the Cadets have taken eight. One resulted in a tie while
one game, way back in 1906, is doubtful as no recorded score can be found. V.M.I. took last year’s battle,
7-0.

Davidson's varsity reserves, known as the All-Americans, swamped Mars Hill Junior College 20-0 this past Saturday before a large crowd.
This Friday they will meet Lees-McRae, coached by Lawrence Spearman, on Richardson Field. The All-Americans boast the best record of
any team on campus. Last year they went through the entire season undefeated and they will probably do it again
this year. The catch behind the All-American team is that they are the hardest worked squad on the hill. They
learn the plays of the teams that the varsity will meet and then go out and scrimmage the varsity three
or four times during the week. When the varsity plays a game, several of the “B” team men are moved
up to give the varsity reserve strength. Besides this, they also scrimmage the frosh eleven.

Here is this week's schedule for the “B” team:
Monday: Learn V.M.I. plays.
Tuesday: Run V.M.I. plays in scrimmage against the varsity.
Wednesday: Defensive scrimmage against varsity.
Thursday: Prepare for Lees-McRae game.
Friday: Play Lees-McRae.

Now don’t you think that a squad that does so much deserves a little credit? Many potential varsity players come
up from the All-American squad each year. This year’s first team has three players that came up via the “B”
team route. Let’s get out and support these boys in their remaining two games!

Basketball practice got under way last Monday night and it looks like Davidson will have one of the strongest teams
in recent years. Only four members of last year’s squad were lost by graduation and only one of these was
a regular. Ned Iverson, lanky 6-foot 4-inch captain, heads the returning hopefuls. Jim Cowan, J.D. Hicks, Johnny Tice, Bill Boyd,
Bennie Harrison, Hayseed Thomas, and Swede Johnson saw plenty of service last year and can be classed as veterans. Iverson,
Hicks, Tice, Cowan, and Boyd earned their letters and should be the backbone of a neat quintet. Norman Shepard, Athletic
Director, will again coach the squad. Davidson’s quint had plenty of tough luck last year losing several games by one
and two-point margins. The year preceding last, the ‘Cats were kept out of the Southern Conference tourney by a toss
of a coin and last year by only 12 points. However, with the experienced men on hand, Davidson should rate
high in basketball circles before the end of the season.

ROSE BOWL QUESTION: It looks like there are just about three or four teams left that have chances for the
coveted Rose Bowl nomination from the east. Carnegie Tech's fine victory over Pitt’s mighty Panthers lowered Jock Sutherland’s team chances
considerably, but they have a possible chance to receive the bid. Texas Christian, with only apparent pushovers left on their
schedule, are unbeaten and untied and should rate high in the matter. Tennessee, if they can push by Vanderbilt and
Kentucky, will certainly be in the running, but Duke, who has yet to be beaten, tied, or even scored upon,
seems the logical selection. Duke faces Syracuse, North Carolina State, and Pitt in their last three games. Surely if they
can hurdle over these elevens for wins they should rate the bid. But Pitt, even if they did get licked
by Carnegie, looms as a barrier that will keep them out of the running. Anyway, as Duke is our nearest
neighbor, they ought to be the student body's team for the Rose Bowl. (Maybe those Tennessee lads disagree, but they
can’t be blamed). Duke has virtually clinched the Big Five top honors and also the Southern Conference Championship as they
have only one game left—North Carolina State. North Carolina State can’t be rated as a pushover even if Virginia Tech
did give them a neat 7-0 licking. Look how they held Manhattan last week to a measly 3-0 victory after
they had beat out the New Yorkers in nearly every department. They'll be heard from in the Duke game—louder than
many expect.

Davidson's cross-country team certainly had some bad breaks last weekend. First of all, regular runners, Bill Telford and Dick Gammon,
were out because of injuries. Then to top things off, the team en route to Guilford had an accident that
shook several members of the team up considerably. They did as well as could be expected under such conditions and
gave the Quakers a good run for their money.

Probably more “misses” were recorded by sports writers in selecting their weekly guesses last week than there has been in
a long time, because of so many major upsets throughout the country. Carnegie’s win over Pitt was rated as the
major upset of the country. However, the loss proved one thing—that Pitt without “Biggie” Goldberg doesn’t make half as much
noise as they do with him. Wisconsin’s win over Northwestern, who only the week before had bowled over Minnesota 6-3,
fooled many of the scribes. Southern California’s win over California threw a monkey wrench in the western Rose Bowl question.
Many fans thought that Tulane led by Bronco Brunner, would breeze through Alabama but they were fooled. Fordham beat a
strong St. Mary’s eleven after one of the most exciting games played Saturday. South Carolina beat Duquesne 7-0 and Villanova
romped over Auburn 25-12 in two other surprise wins. With all these upsets going on, it was certainly lucky that
no predictions were made in this column last week and because of the possibilities of more similar upsets coming this
week, no predictions, except one—Davidson over V.M.I., will be made.

FAUL & CRYMES, Inc.
Sporting Goods
415 SOUTH TRYON STREET
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

DAVIDSON SPORTS
WEDNESDAY, NOV. 9, 1938

Beesters Win Second Start By 20-0 Count
All-Americans Outplay Mars Hill Gridders on Muddy Field

Davidson's All-Americans romped on the Mars Hill Junior College Varsity Saturday before a large High School Day crowd to win
20-0 on a rain-soaked field. Although the footing was slippery, the Wildcat “Beesters” played clearly out all the way, gaining
two hundred and ninety-nine yards while allowing their rivals but forty-three. Bolin scored all three touchdowns for Davidson, the first
from three yards out, the second from one yard, and the third time from six yards. The first pointer came
in the initial period when the 'Cats marched from their own forty-six yard line to score with Hunter, Bolin, and
Sharpe doing heavy offensive work. The ’Cats scored the second time in the third quarter as Hunter led an attack
from the Mars Hill 42, with Bolin scoring from the one. With minutes left to play, Davidson crossed the double
stripes for the third time after taking the ball on their own eight-yard marker. Hunter and Sharpe kept the Lions
set back all afternoon as they averaged forty yards a try with punts. The “B” team also completely outpassed the
Mars Hill eleven, completing five out of nine for ninety-one yards. The Lions were unable to complete a pass, trying
four unsuccessfully. The ’Cat forward wall outrushed the rival line most of the time, giving good holes for the backs
to break through. “Black-Dog” Hunter turned in a stellar performance from his tailback post, with Bolin and Sharpe also looking
good.

The statistics bore out the victory as the Davidsons made fifteen first downs to one for their opponents. Davidson also
was forced to punt but six times while the Mars Hill gridders booted the ball twelve times. The ‘Cats recovered
two of these.These Cagers Start Fall Practice

Varsity basketball practice started last Monday night when Coach Norman Shepard looked over his candidates for the squad. The Wildcat
prospects are very bright for the season. Only four of last year’s squad were lost, only one of them being
a regular. The other first string men were John Tice, Ned Iverson, Footsie Cowan, and J. D. Hicks. Around these
men will be placed the hopes of the Davidson student body for a Southern Conference championship team. Fighting for the
other position on the starting line-up will be Bill Boyd, Swede Johnson, Benny Harrison, and “Hayseed” Thomas, other returning members
of the squad. Also, Jim Hogg, star of last year’s Freshman quintet, will be scrapping for this coveted position. Davidson
missed getting into the Conference tournament last year by 12 points. The team lost several heart-breaking games by a one
or two-point margin. Especially to be remembered is the Carolina game.

Cats Upset Furman; Point For Wofford

Page Six

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Capable and Steady

Ned Iverson, whose six-foot four-inch frame stamps him as a real offensive threat, and George Richmond, sturdy little guard, have
been playing good football for the ’Cats to date. Iverson has figured well on the offense with some brilliant pass-snagging
to his credit. Richmond, although light and small, is a sliding, slashing guard that has stood out on the defensive.

Kappa Sigs Make Couple To Lead Fraternity Race

SPORTSWRITERS COVER GAMES

(Continued from Page Three)

He has one more year of varsity competition. Interfraternity touch football progressed rapidly last week with the Kappa Sigs surging
into the lead by virtue of their wins over the Pikas and the Betas. The only other undefeated team, the
Phi Delts, remained idle during the week. In the first of three games last Tuesday, the S. A. E.’s defeated
the Betas 6-0. The other games out over the airwaves. The S. E.’s racked up 3 first downs to none
for the Betas as well as scoring in the first half on a pass to Jim Thomas. Two passes from
Jim Hogg, one to Means and the other to Neal Scott, scored the two touchdowns by which the Kappa Sigs
won over the Pikas. The Pi Kaps pushed through the hapless Betas in the third game of the day to
the tune of 12-0, and at the same time racking up 4 first downs. Dave King and Ken Lawson scored
the touchdowns.

The Kaps ran members time to question him. With the greatest difficulty, he keeps his identity unknown. As he enters
the execution room, followed by the Warden and the Priest, he repeats again and again, “The Valiant never taste of
death but once.” The cast was as follows: James Dyke, Warden, Charles MacArthur; Daly, Monroe Bush; Josephine Paris, Kalista Hood;
Wilson the Jailor, Zack Cowan; Another Jailor, Harry Suttenfield. The play was directed by M. E. Morrow.

The Sig Eps pushed the Phi Gams from the undefeated ranks on Wednesday in the crucial game of the week's
play. Although the Phi Gams scored 2 first downs to none for the Sig Eps, Charlie connected on the Phi
Gam 35-yard line, and Tice outran his pursuers to score. The Kappa Sigs won their second game of the week,
beating the Betas 12-0. Yarborough scored both touchdowns for the unbeaten Kappa Sigs.

Professor E. J. Erwin was in charge of the production; and Gordon Horton the sets. The stage mechanics were Zack
Cowan, Phil Peyton, Ed Jackson, Tom Hackney, Ken McIntyre, Mac Covington, and Tommy Treziak.

Strong V. M. I. Cadets Will Invade Cat Lair In Homecoming Game

Treziak and Shu Will Lead Flying Squadron Against Davidson; Wildcats To Be At Full Strength As Old Grads Return For
Battle

The Virginia Military Institute will invade Richardson Field at Davidson next Saturday to battle the Wildcats in their Homecoming Day
tussle. Davidson will again enter the game as underdogs, but they will have their full strength ready for the game.
Bill Davis and Archie Steed have shown up well in practice and games with their running and passing. Also, their
punting has averaged about 40 yards per try for the season. The line-plunging of Tubby Hand has torn opposing lines
to ribbons this season, and Fred Stair has gained many yards on reverses through the left side of the line.
This light pony-backfield has shown itself superior to the Terriers as they chalked up fourteen first downs to one for
the visitors.

Davidson gained a total of 192 yards net by rushing to 21 for Wofford. The Wildcats showed themselves superior to
the Terriers as they chalked up fourteen first downs to one for the visitors. Bill Davis led the passers with
three for five completions. In all, he, Steed, and Harrison made seven out of sixteen good for 116 yards, while
Wofford was not able to complete any aerials. The Wildcats only fumbled once and recovered that one. Several momentary fumbles
for both teams did not go down as such. Tailback Davis led the scorers with two six-pointers to his credit.
Frank Harrison and Tubby Hand each had a touchdown, and Luke Graham converted one of these.

Davidson will again enter the game as underdogs, but they will have their full strength ready for the game. Bill
Davis and Archie Steed have shown up well in practice and games with their running and passing. Also, their punting
has averaged about 40 yards per try for the season. The line-plunging of Tubby Hand has torn opposing lines to
ribbons this season, and Fred Stair has gained many yards on reverses through the left side of the line. This
light pony-backfield has shown itself superior to the Terriers as they chalked up fourteen first downs to one for the
visitors.

Kappa Sigs, Phi Delts Remain Undefeated

Team Won Lost
Kappa Sig 5 0
Phi Delt 4 0
S. A. E. 4 1
Phi Gams 4 1
Pi Kappa Phi 1 3
Betas 0 5

Individual Scoring

Tom Yarborough (K. Sig) 24
Andy Dale (Phi Delt) 18
Jim Thomas (S. A. E.) 18
Bill Marquess (Phi Delt) 18
Charlie Sample (Sig Ep) 12
John Tice (Sig Ep) 12
Bill Boyd (Phi Delt) 12
Melvin Means (Kappa Sig) 12
Neal Scott (Kappa Sig) 12

STATE THEATRE

Mooresville, N.C.

Wed., Nov. 9
DAVID COPPERFIELD
W. C. Fields
Freddie Bartholomew

Thurs.-Fri., Nov. 10-11
TOO HOT TO HANDLE
Clark Gable & Myrna Loy

Sat., Nov. 12
RACKET BUSTERS
AND
RIDERS OF THE BLACK HILL

Mon.-Tues., Nov. 14-15
LITTLE MISS BROADWAY
Shirley Temple

STATE THEATRE
MOORESVILLE, N. C.

NATIONAL SHIRT WEEK

ALL COLOR MODELS

Fountain Pens, Stationery, Candies, and Tobaccos

WHITE DRUG COMPANY
DAVIDSON, N. C.

NATIONAL SHIRT SHOPS
Corner Tryon and Trade Streets
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

The N. C. State game was lost by one point and the Wake Forest game lost by one point both
in the Davidson gym.

Money-making may not be the true end of life, but it’s often the real beginning of living.

A Complete Optometric Service
@EYES EXAMINED
@GLASSES FITTED
@LABORATORY SERVICE

DR. BELLE W. PALMER
DR. JAMES A. PALMER

Charlotte’s Leading Restaurant
DELICIOUS FOOD AT REASONABLE PRICES

THE CHARLOTTE NEWS
Incorporated
Printers of “Scripts ’n Pranks”
Charlotte, N. C.
Phone 3-6608
221 W. Trade Street
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
