Page Two

The Davidsonian

Founded By the Class of 1915

1937 Member 1938 Associated Collegiate Press

Distributor of Collegiate Digest

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy, $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON AVE New York, N.Y.
CHICAGO - BOSTON - LOS ANGELES - SAN FRANCISCO

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879.

DICK VOWLES Editor-in-Chief
CHARLES MOORE Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
Fitzhugh Dade Assistant Editor
Ovid Bell Managing Editor
Joe Calvin Managing Editor
Wesley Coghill Managing Editor
Terrell Porte Managing Editor
Owen Cooke Managing Editor
Sam Cothran Sports Editor
Euclid Fant Associate Editor
Hector McGeachy Associate Editor
Yates Faison Associate Editor
Sam Ryburn Associate Editor
Henry Baker Associate Editor
Westley Coghill Associate Editor
John Latimer Associate Editor
Bill Miller Associate Editor
Addy Turner Associate Editor
Porter Sam Hemphill Collection Manager
Advertising Manager
Asst. Advertising Manager
Circulation Manager
Circulation Manager
Asst. Business Manager

Do not worry; eat three square meals a day; say your prayers; be courteous to your creditors; keep your digestion good; exercise; go slow and go easy.
—ABRAHAM LINCOLN.

We Bid Farewell...

With this issue your staff bids farewell and turns the newspaper over to a new regime. The staff has enjoyed the task of editing and publishing the weekly publication, despite the trials and difficulties accompanying the work. The managing editors have made up their respective pages admirably with the real interest of the paper at heart. The copy reader has done his work well. The sophomores and freshmen, despite the paucity of the latter, have done their bit.

To the business staff goes the appreciation of the editorial staff. The business staff has been the best in many a year, due to the excellent organization Manager Moore has brought about in his staff.

We have received the best cooperation from the faculty advisor, the college administration, the student body, and the town in general. The Charlotte Observer and the Charlotte News have aided the paper immeasurably by giving the paper the use of their cuts. Merchants in Davidson, Mooresville, and Charlotte have shown their interest in Davidson by their willingness to advertise in the paper. And lastly, the smooth running of the newspaper this year has been, to a large extent, due to the efficient work of the Standard Printing Company.

Yes, the time has come for the new regime to step in, and it is all for the best. A new staff will imbibe the paper with a new life and a new zest. The new staff will carry on with the motto of The Davidsonian “For A Better Davidson.”

To the New Editor...

You, Mr. Editor-elect, have a considerable job ahead of you. The way is not easy. The first thirty issues are the hardest. But seriously, here is a bit of advice from a fellow newspaperman out west:—

“The college editor should make a slight distinction between himself and his job. The job is important; he is not. The editorship is as responsible a position, in its potential power to help or harm the college as the presidency of the college. The editor, unless he is a child prodigy, must proceed thoughtfully and with due regard for the errors of his predecessors if he is properly to fulfill that responsibility.”
—The Daily Illinois.

And when you have finished your task, you will feel a sentiment akin to that expressed in this little poem from our exchanges:

“What have you done?” St. Peter asked,
“That I should admit you here?”
“I ran a paper,” the editor said,
“At my college for one long year.”
St. Peter pityingly shook his head
And gravely touched the bell.
“Come in, poor man, select a harp
“You’ve had your share of Hell.”

But the best of luck to you, Mr. Editor-elect, and your staff. May your success be great and your difficulties few and far between!

Student Discord...

There has always been a lack of agreement on some subjects between the faculty and the students, and in most cases, this has been irritated by a lack of understanding. Two things are definitely wrong. First, there seems to be some inadequacy in the communication of faculty rulings to the students as individuals, and in the explanation of these rulings. True, there may still be a lack of agreement if such conditions are corrected, but the student can see some reason then for disciplinary measures. As it is, the Davidson student usually feels very much in the dark concerning faculty rulings and their explanation.

Second, when students feel disgruntled and cannot agree, they have had no very good way in the past to express their opinion as a body directly to the faculty and discuss the differences. Thus, we feel that the conference committee to be made up of three students and three faculty members and to consider these difficulties, will fill a long-sought need in the handling of campus problems and will aid in the removal of the dissatisfied atmosphere which now pervades the campus.

At recent meetings of Omicron Delta Kappa, the faculty, in explanation of past actions, assured the members of the basis for their decisions. When these same reasons are brought to the ears of the student body, we feel quite sure that there will be a much greater understanding between the two factions.

Senior Slants “On Compulsory Church Attendance”

The senior will remember the days in his freshman history when it was possible for a student, even the freshman, to attend the church of his liking, his own denomination. And, too, the senior who did not attend his home church was privileged to sit where he pleased in church. But then the senior murmured something about compulsory church being distasteful, and it was not long afterward that the senior was assigned a seat behind the freshmen. The change was gradual but firm and smooth enough that it passed along comparatively unchallenged. But this year’s senior remembers that the senior of 1934 pleaded against compulsory church attendance even when he was allowed home church permission and the privilege to sit as he pleased. Now the plea is still the same but under different conditions. We have been in reverse for four years.

Church attendance, hence religion, admittedly has a purpose, admittedly a good purpose. But the end of a good purpose is being attempted from the wrong angle. The policy is contrary to all laws of human conduct. Everyone realizes the sacrificial aim of religion, but it borders on becoming indigestible when it is crammed down one's throat. The whole friction in the matter lies not with the subject but with the principle. Christian religion, according to its own teachings, is an ideal, something to be desired for its own sake and not something to be driven to. Then it would seem that the only and obvious conclusion is that under the present conditions, church defeats its own purpose. The pity is that it could be placed on a far more attractive basis so that it would be a real pleasure to attend church, so that it would become a tradition. Davidson would be more proud to admit that it had become a tradition on the Davidson campus that every man attend church.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Campus in Cartoon

AVIATION
JOHN J. MONTGOMERY OF THE UNIVERSITY OF SANTA CLARA MADE GLIDER FLIGHTS AS EARLY AS 1884. IN 1905 HE DESCENDED FROM A BALLOON IN A TANDEM MONOPLANE AND LATER IN THE YEAR FELL TO HIS DEATH IN A MOTOR PROPELLED PLANE.

THE SWEDISH NIGHTINGALE, JENNY LIND, DONATED THE FIRST MONEY TO FOUND AUGUSTANA COLLEGE, ROCK ISLAND, ILLINOIS.

Letters to the Editor

NEW SUGGESTION FOR SELECTING CAMPUS LEADERS...

Dear Editor:

While all the projects for helping us elect our campus leaders are being made, let me propose one. Power should be given to a committee composed of the president, dean, and the student body president to select five nominees for each campus office. These men will be graded: three stars for Joe—he hasn't ever held an office, but he made B on psychology, and we feel that he is well qualified; two stars for Bill—he could hold an office all right, but doesn't have the personality to get it on his own hook; etc. But don’t put the names of Sam, Dick, or Jim on the ballot. They have held enough offices and it is unfair to all the other members of the student body. No sirree—they're on the shelf.

Silly, you say? Smacks of grammar school? Certainly it does. But it must be considered along with similar plans which have been suggested. A member of this student body is objecting because our leaders hold more than one or two offices. He feels that this is not fair. He doesn't suggest, he SAYS that Davidson College is guilty of letting good personality and leadership in previous offices play a part in our voting. Tch, tch, how heinous! He proposed that we use a point system. Now we all know what this means, because we remember our high school days. He advocates a plan by which a group of propagandists will say in effect: Well now, Bill is a fine fellow, was a wizard on the gridiron, has made good enough grades to make the Dean's list (and have you noticed that almost every Davidson leader WITHOUT EXCEPTION SINCE BUT THE TIGERS HAVE TAKEN 2 EC OS Ruteers BEAT PRINCETON 6-4 IN THE FIRST INTERCOLLEGIATE FOOTBALL GAME, PLAYED IN 1869. THEY HAVE BEEN TRYING TO REPEAT EVER SINCE BUT THE TIGERS HAVE TAKEN 2 EC OS

This ’n That

NEW YORK AT LARGE...

Some of the better performances among new popular record releases include “You Couldn't Be Cuter,” played by Ray Noble's orchestra, and “Heigh-Ho,” from the Snow White score, played by the Horace Heidt crew (Brunswick); “Love's Old Sweet Song” offered by Marcell Weber and his orchestra, and “Piano Tuner Man,” by Bunny Berigan’s outfit, and “Annie Laurie” by the Tommy Dorsey orchestra (Victor), and “Whistle While You Work,” also from Snow White, played by Bert Block and his orchestra (Vocalion). Night club and theater business has dropped off during the recession. Noticeably absent from hot spots are Columbia, N.Y.U., Yale, and Princeton gadabouts, whoseAllowances have been sharply curtailed. The XYZ Club has certainly grown in work and size under his administration, but — well, it’s not fair to John, who wants the job just as much as Bill, but just can’t get elected. Don’t be partial; go vote for John, so we can pass the offices around. Let's come straight to the point. Beneath the Latin phrases and poetical quotations which have decorated his past letters, we scent some student — let us call him Horatio Alger Boru — who has one great ambition in life: to be elected to an office. He knows he has all the personality and leadership needed (his mother told him so), yet he has been cheated out of his just deserts by some boy who has fooled five other students into voting for him. This CONTROLLED POLITICS foolishness is the result. He speaks of qualifications. What other qualifications are needed other than the honors which he has (is on this well-known list?) and te (Continued on Page 7)

From Campus to Campus

Proof of the cartoonist's pictures showing students as always wearing glasses came last week from the records of the University of Minnesota’s director of student health service, Dr. Ruth E. Boynton. Dr. Boynton revealed that at Minnesota, at least, almost four times as many of those who passed highest on the college aptitude test were nearsighted as of those who passed lowest. A situation like this would nullify the ever-present “head nodding brigade.” There must be a foundation for a regulation which is criticized so widely and has been under fire for so long. This is by no means the first opinion that has been published. Different views, different angles have heretofore been presented. The students have offered their side of the argument and would welcome an official statement from the administration expressing their side.

SAM COTHRAN.

Dale Embers, McPherson College, has driven 28,800 miles for a college education. He travels 20 miles a day to and from classes.

Northwestern University sororities have given up hell week activities.

The University of Pennsylvania has created a department of American civilization to train students who wish to specialize in the development of social and cultural institutions. The course deals with American literary, political, social, and economic history and is described as being in line “with the modern trend in education which breaks down when necessary the traditional limits of university departments of instruction in order to meet the real needs of students.” One of the features of the course will be its stressing of the conflict of ideas and means of determining the rightness or wrongness of these ideas. “When ‘authorities’ flatly contradict each other or perpetuate rumors as history, a university which is older than the nation itself has a duty to present the truth from the liberal rather than from a tory or a radical standpoint,” one of the course leaders stated.

Rufus has had few educational advantages, but he does business in and around halls of learning and likes to outsmart his customers. Rufus is a negro shoeshine boy who makes the rounds of University of Alabama dormitories. While polishing shoes, he chatters constantly and finally inquires artlessly what his customer's home state is. Whatever the answer, he then asks, “How many states is dey in dis country, anyway—'bout 262?" Then, “Wonder how many I could call? Alabama, Jawjuh, Loosiaha — lemme see now,” (time out for head scratching, jaw rubbing, and other indications of painful concentration) “Mobile, New Hampshican, Detroit, Tennessee.” After this build-up, when his victim-to-be is enjoying the experience tremendously, Rufus dangles his bait temptingly, “Say, mistuh, betcha I could call ‘bout 10 in five minutes.” The offer generally results in a wager of from 25 to 50 cents on what the student regards as a “cinch” proposition. As soon as the stakes are in the hands of a disinterested holder, Rufus drops his mask of ignorance, rattles off the names of 25 or 30 states, pockets his winnings, and whistles off to greener pastures.

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 23, 1938.

By King For A Day
CHUBBY KING

Without premonitory remarks, joyfully and unhesitatingly, with just a bit of pride, I tear out a secret from my burdened bosom, now harbored there for nigh three months. My head tingles with delight — this is what is known as a scoop with ME as the perpetrator. A fitting climax for such a distinguished literary career as mine. But ah! Le scoop. Henry Wade Barrow, whose roommate is such an excellent chap, will play the much-envied leading man in the exciting drama of Marriage, co-starred with lovely Miss Harriet Boyd of Columbia, S.C. Engagement will be announced this Sunday. (Ain't I ahead, people... Thanks, Harriet), and wedding bells will peal around the second week in June. Past week, campus saturated with water, auto hagns, and gas. My opinion that flare-up not due particularly to house party bereavement, but rather the smoldering resentment of a student body continually repressed. You can’t treat men like canines, and expect them to do anything other than bark. (Occasionally, a bite, like Tuesday night). Listeners to WBT last Sat nite entertained royally by the rich baritone voice of Colonel Liipfert poetically phrasing sweet nothings to anybody. Aromatous entry of Spring evidenced everywhere what with Ryburn's new Chicken (astounding color motif) magazine, and the Colonel broadcasting poetry. Then, too, the unheard-of regularity of square dances conquering the campus — the Big Apple has vanished, and we return to the past. At the Erwin dance — Coghill and Porter chaperoning Miss Steel. A variety of guests from Frieze to Ryburn. Joe Kellam inaugurated spring with a swing at some blue coats and brass buttons, while Paul Cooper playfully removed tickets from autos — Dick Towill played the retrieving friend and they returned safely. Henry Lyons, however, in melancholy mood, pooch poos spring, love, and stuff — He's wearing his heart-shaped pin again after an extended stay of the latter in Salisbury. Also, ask Lyons for the “before” and “after” letters of the Mid-Winters period — really a discerning study of contrast in female attitude.

Billie Crooks after weeks of contemplating WC Sat nite dance, jailed in the infirmary, and was represented only by his flowers previously ordered. Sam Cothran and Gus McNite in competitive knock-outing with the latter the winner. Bill Kiesewetter journeyed to Charlotte femme Monday nite carrying my copy of very Light Verse — featuring the better amorous poems. NOTICE! G. Mathis in search of companion, preferably female, to accompany him on brief southern tour, length unknown — probably just to S.C. Walking upon the grass, especially now it’s spring, is fine stuff, but let’s cut out this road breaking. Have noticed with considerable chagrin, the paths created rather recently — even thru the newly applied fertilizer, etc. In other words, if you walk upon the grass, don’t walk the same way twice, and we can eliminate the paths. Vowles, Kunz, Harbin, Fred, and Skinny Lowrance off to Statesville party Sat nite. Gastiger momentarily coerced, but found strength with one look at Miss “Mitchell,” so locked himself up. Bill Hamilton and Dick Aycock vied against each other for the favor of Miss Alice Reins. Coot Gladden returned to church with Miss Martha Alexander while ex-suitor Sadler smiled enviously. Heywood Hophead Hill charmed by Pixy. Catawba coed arranges trip north to coincide with that of Don Cleveland. Frank Harrison takes Punch from Glenn and enjoys himself immensely. Montreat's Miss Peggy Dietal elected Miss Florida.

Bard College is conducting a fund drive to prevent their institution from being closed at the end of the current school year.

EXPERIMENT—It would be interesting for somebody to take a stop watch to church one night and record the time it required for the students to stand up and the time it required for them to take their seats again. They rise like it took every ounce of strength in their body and when allowed to sit down again it’s like a dead weight falling when the string is cut. Someone said it’s only human nature. Tommyrot; it’s laziness and nothing else.

QUIET, PLEASE—Of the many ministers that we have here for our vesper services, there is one that stands head and shoulders above the rest when it comes to commanding attention from the student body. It is none other than our own Dr. Foreman. Yes, when it comes to receiving quiet, respecting attention, Dr. Foreman is the man. So, let's have more of Dr. Foreman.

CHECKING UP—You have seen those books in the student store that a soap company is giving away in return for some soap wrappers. Well, there is among them a book entitled ‘Five Minute Biographies’ and the other night ‘Dirty Dan’ Walker was seen with one of these books in one hand and a watch in the other. When asked what he was doing, he laconically replied: “I'm timing the darn thing.”

SPRING — The following poem was feelingly rendered this past Monday at one-thirty o'clock with the official ushering-in of spring season by Tom Finley:
‘Spring is here. Spring is here.
And the bird is on the wing.
Oh, my word! How absurd.
The wing is on the bird.’

THUMB NAIL SKETCH— One of the best football players to represent Davidson in several years. In fact, the only man from Davidson to make the All-State football team this past season. Also an expert at throwing the discus and a whale of a good basketball player. A big, easy-going boy, he hails from S.C. and is one of the few boys to belong to two Greek letter fraternities which are both located on fraternity court. He graduates this spring and can be sure of being remembered as an asset that the school will long be proud of.

Carolina Theatre
Charlotte, N. C.
In Person! on the Stage!
“Fred Waring and his Pennsylvanians”
28 Musicians! Stars! Singers! Dancers! Girls! A Whopping Show!
Mat: 40c Nite: 55c
FULL SCREEN PROGRAM
Shows at: 2:40 5:15 7:20 9:30

25¢ (COIN)