Page Six THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, MAY 11, 1934

Your Film Report Card
By CHARLIE LUTHER

Thursday and Friday, May 13-14
“HER JUNGLE LOVE”—Dorothy Lamour and Ray Milland. A fantastic return to the South Sea tale “Hurricane.” You find it’s a
mean treat, Dorothy Lamour is gorgeous, and Ray Milland is as dashing as ever.

“HELL DIVERS”—Clark Gable, Wallace Beery, and Jean Harlow. I am thinking about “HELL DIVERS” from several years ago. It was
one of the first films that appeared with the glamorous Jean Harlow, who died recently. This was one of her
best pictures. It also starred Clark Gable and Wallace Beery.

“FOUR MEN AND A PRAYER”—Loretta Young, David Niven, Richard Greene, George Sanders, and William Henry. A fair grade for this
film. It seems to be a fair adventure and travel movie.

“DR. RHYTHM”—Bing Crosby, Mary Carlisle, Beatrice Lilly, and Andy Devine. An entertaining film. I would go if I were you.
It’s good English entertainment.

Local Taxicab Man Reviews Past History
Ben Beal Recalls Days of Buggies and Bad Roads

All of the Davidson students have seen and probably know Ben Beal, the hackman who owns and drives the brown
Ford V-8 taxi that is a Davidson tradition. Few of us know that he has been carrying students about the
country for over a quarter-century.

Ben said that he used to take students to Charlotte and other towns nearby several times a week. There was
one train that passed through here twice each day as it went towards Mooresville. He and the other hackmen took
students to Charlotte. The cost was three dollars for a buggy drawn by a single horse and five dollars for
one drawn by two horses. Since it was against the rules to leave the school, the students had to slip
out to make these trips. Ben said that he would pick the boys up on the outskirts of town to
keep them from getting caught. These trips would have to begin soon after lunch because, at that time, if there
was no delay, it took at least four hours to make the trip to Charlotte. The distance was only two
miles longer then than it is now, but the road was unpaved and in such terrible condition that there was
constant danger of getting stuck.

In 1912, Ben got his first car, a Ford. But cars were made in no better form then, and there
were always at least two flats to fix before reaching our destination. They were usually ready to head back to
Davidson about one o'clock. With all the trouble they had, Ben said that he did not usually remain out all
night.

For years, Ben owned a fleet of cars which he used for the purpose of conveying Davidson athletes to different
schools for athletic contests. During that time, he visited most of the schools in the South. He stated that Davidson
athletes were undoubtedly the best of them all.

When asked if he had trouble with boys who were drunk, Ben replied that he had never seen a Davidson
student drunk. He believes the present student body to be of a higher standard than ever before. In his twenty-seven
years of driving, he stated that he had never lost so much as one dollar by a dishonest or ungentlemanly
act.

JOHNSON’S BARBER SHOP
Can Even Make Ugly Men Handsome

Drink Pasteurized MILK
IT’S SAFE
MOORESVILLE CREAMERY
Orange Juice at Student Store
PHONE 205 : DELIVERY FREE

DeLuxe Ice Cream
Mooresville, N. C.
Phone 56

WEDNESDAY—MAY 11
THURS.-FRI—MAY 12-13
SATURDAY—MAY 14
“Hell Divers”
MONDAY—MAY 16
TUESDAY—MAY 17
DAVIDSON THEATRE
“Portia On Trial”
“Her Jungle Love”
“Four Men and a Prayer”
“Dr. Rhythm”

Leaders of Press Group

Many prominent writers and publishers attended the annual spring convention of the North Carolina Collegiate Press Association which was held
in Charlotte, Thursday, Friday, and Saturday, May 5-7. The official delegates from Davidson were Dick Vowles, treasurer of the Association,
Charlie Moore, Sam Ryburn, Henry Harkey, Jim Dorsett, and Wally Tonissen. Several unofficial delegates also attended of their own accord.SYSTEM
(Continued from Page 1)

recognized as one office, e.g. the office of President of the Student Body includes that of the Student Council, etc.

CLASS I (30 points)—President of the Student Body, President of the Y.M.C.A., Editor of "The Davidsonian," and Editor of "Quips
and Cranks."

CLASS II (25 points)—President of the Pan-Hellenic Council, Judge of the Court of Control, President of Senior Class, President of
the Athletic Association, Editor of "Scripts and Pranks," Business Manager of "The Davidsonian," Manager of the Student Store, and Freshman
Advisor.

CLASS III (15 points)—President of the Honorary Fraternity Council, President of the Forensic Council, President of the "D" Club, Varsity
Cheer Leader, Secretary of the Pan-Hellenic Council, Treasurer of the Mill Chapel, Fraternity Musical Director, Manager of Minor Sports, Assistant
Pastor, Business Manager of "Scripts and Pranks," Manager of Major Sports, President of the Beaver Club, and President of the
Sunday School Class.

CLASS IV (10 points)—President of Social Fraternity, Member of the Student Council, Member of the Pan-Hellenic Council, Member of the
Y.M.C.A. Cabinet, President of Literary Society, President of Musical Organizations, Editor of "Y" Handbook, President of the College Sunday School
Class, Member of the Debating Team, and Manager of the Debating Team.

CLASS V (5 points)—Student Store Board of Control, Publication Board Manager, Member of Court of Control, Honorary Fraternity Officers, Under
Honorary Council Officers, Under Organization Officers, Member of Executive Committee Student Volunteers, Member of Executive Committee of the Pan-Hellenic Council,
Manager of Ministerial Band, Business Manager of "Y" Handbook, and Y.M.C.A. N.B. These offices were classified as a consensus of
the opinion of a committee of approximately one hundred men.

The University of New Hampshire next fall will inaugurate a new four-year school of hotel administration.

PATRONIZE DAVIDSONIAN ADVERTISERS

(Continued from Page Three)

She spoke of her experiences encountered in the British Isles and told of her stays in the tourist homes of
the nation. Discussion which followed was based on stories told by the faculty members about incidents in which they took
part. This included humorous and entertaining experiences. The professors of many languages seemed to hold preference for the people who
speak the tongue they teach.

Happenings Here ’n There

Two sets of twins are on the Massachusetts State College baseball team for 1938.

A hundred couples, attired in sweaters (and other clothes, of course), attended the annual Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute sweater dance.

A "Legion of Beauty" invaded the Colgate University men-only campus for the annual junior prom.

Pennsylvania State College students consume 100,000 spoonfuls of ice cream at one meal.

Sixteen thousand mirrors lighted up the Green Key prom at Dartmouth College.

The Carnegie Corporation has given more than $1,500,000 to the University of Chicago graduate library school for research.

"Economy Trading"

STATIONERY
Toilet Articles
SOUTHERN 5c & 10c Store
DAVIDSON, N.C.

FOR QUALITY’S SAKE
M.H. Goodrum Co.
Zenith Radios

Clyde Erwin to Speak

Clyde A. Erwin, Superintendent of Public Instruction of North Carolina, will speak at chapel tomorrow morning at 10:05 A.M., it
was announced. This address is one of a series of vocational guidance talks planned under the auspices of the Y.M.C.A.
of Davidson. Afterward, Mr. Erwin will be available to students interested in conferences with him in the teaching profession.

KITTENS LOSE (Continued from Page 4)

Niven led the Davidson team with a two-run hit. McLeskey and Colgate gave up 14 hits for the Davidson willow-benders.

On the Stage: Another grand and glorious revue as you like it best. One of the best stage presentations of
the year.

"PASSING PARADE"
A RED HOT REVUE
Full of Youth, Pep, Zip and Everything it Takes

On the Screen:
LEW AYRES
LOUISE CAMPBELL
in
"Scandal Street"
A Grand Picture in Anybody's Language

FRIDAY & SATURDAY

BROADWAY

Copyright 1938, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.

Radio Features of PLEASURE

GRACE MOORE
ANDRE KOSTELANETZ
PAUL WHITEMAN
DEEMS TAYLOR
PAUL DOUGLAS

... because Chesterfield ingredients are the best a cigarette can have... mild ripe home-grown tobaccos... aromatic Turkish tobaccos... aged for
2½ years... pure tasteless cigarette paper... and a blend that can’t be copied... they’ll give you MORE PLEASURE than any
cigarette you ever smoked.
