Page Six THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, APRIL 6, 1938

Your Film Report Card
By HENRY B. BAKER

The quality of each picture is determined by the number of stars—more stars mean a better picture.

Thursday, April 7—
“DANGEROUS TO KNOW” — Gail Patrick, Akim Tamiroff, and Anna May Wong.
The story of a beautiful girl who must have her own way in everything. She leads the male star, Akim Tamiroff, into various complicated situations that will furnish plenty of entertainment.

Friday, April 8—
“THE FIRST HUNDRED YEARS” — Robert Montgomery, Virginia Bruce, and Binnie Barnes.
A comedy romance about nothing in particular but possessed with inklings of witty lines. Several situations and the reunion of a married couple with different professional interests, and the way it all takes place is very amusing.

Mr. Roy A. Palmer, who will lecture in Chambers Friday night at 7:30.

Saturday, April 9—
“GOLD IS WHERE YOU FIND IT” — George Brent, Olivia DeHavilland, and Claude Rains.
A technicolor production that gives a lecture in all its splendor. It deals with hydraulic mining during the early settling of California and the conflict that raged between the ranchers and the miners. The picture has bloodshed and plenty of dangerous adventure.

Under the joint auspices of Sigma Pi Sigma and Gamma Sigma Epsilon, Physics and Chemistry fraternities, Mr. Roy A. Palmer, illuminating engineer of the Duke Power Company, will deliver a demonstration lecture in Chambers Auditorium Friday, April 8, at 7:30 P.M. His topic: “The Magic of Light.” This lecture is non-technical and is highly entertaining and interesting.

Mr. Palmer has many honors and is nationally recognized in his field. He graduated from the University of Minnesota in 1921 with a Bachelor of Science degree in electrical engineering. A few years later he went to Hollywood, Calif., to assist in introducing the mazda lamp in motion picture studios. In 1928 he accepted the position of illuminating engineer for Duke Power Company in Charlotte and was appointed by President Hoover on the Committee on Fundamental Equipment for Home Illumination. He was a delegate to the International Commission on Illumination and has lectured in a variety of national conventions.

Monday & Tuesday, April 11-12—
“GIRL OF THE GOLDEN WEST” — Jeanette MacDonald, Nelson Eddy, and Walter Pidgeon.
A story set against a wild west background but contrasted with the beautiful operatic voices of Jeanette MacDonald and Nelson Eddy. The way the singing bandit chief wins the girl he loves is truly inspiring.

Trip Made By Debate Team
A make-up of the Davidson debating team, composed of Dick Kenyon and Bill Kiesewetter, returned last Sunday night after debating West-

Rubinoff and Piano Duo Will Appear In Concert
Famous Violinist to Play in Charlotte Armory-Auditorium Tonight

Tonight at the Armory-Auditorium in Charlotte, Rubinoff, famous maestro of the violin, and Fray and Braggiotti, piano duo, are being presented in concert by the Junior Chamber of Commerce of that city. For the past few years Rubinoff has been a favorite on radio programs. He first came into prominence by his appearance with his orchestra on Eddie Cantor's program. Since that time he has kept his orchestra intact, until recently he began a road tour with Fray and Braggiotti which will carry him over the entire eastern and central part of the United States. Rubinoff is the proud possessor of one of the few genuine Stradivarius violins in the world, which is over one hundred years old.

Modern Music
The program for tonight is designated as “a concert presentation of modern music.” Rubinoff will present such popular favorites as Kreisler’s “Old Refrain” in addition to a good many of his original compositions. Fray and Braggiotti will feature a good many of the tunes from Victor Herbert's operettas and also various numbers. One novelty for which this duo has become famous is the taking of a simple melody, such as “Yankee Doodle,” and interpreting it in the manner of Bach, Chopin, Handel, and other music masters.

CHURCH GROUP
(Continued from Page 5)
particularly the choir; along this line it was proposed that Prof. Thane McDonald should be in charge of music at the morning service at regular intervals; (3) Prof. Fulcher suggested that he have the deacons appoint ushers to welcome boys and show them to seats in the main body of the church.

‘Y’ DEPUTATION
(Continued from Page 1)
Y.M.C.A. of Davidson, and in the past it has proved very helpful. Wade Boggs, Bill Johnston, Archie Torrey, Sherrard Rice, Phil Edwards, and Dennis Vaughn are going to leave here on Thursday night for Rocky Mount on a deputation similar to one taken to Asheville earlier in the year.Member of several technical committees of the same. He is the author of many articles on the subject of illumination, seeing, and other phases in the art of lighting, which have been published. He has lectured before many technical groups as well as a wide variety of public meetings and journals and magazines. A successful tour of northern colleges during which they won their only decision debate against Hampden-Sydney College. At present, Mr. Palmer is a director of the Illuminating Engineering Society as well as chairman.

The team participated in a radio debate over station WNEW in New York City on Thursday, March 24. The men took the negative side of the question, “Resolved: That the United States...”

SPENSER BROS.
CITY CAFE & DINING ROOM
“WHERE FRIENDS MEET TO EAT”
For Frat. Parties - Capacity 90 People
MOORESVILLE, N. C.

The team of New Wilmington, Pa., debated before the Phalz Club of Newcastle, Pa. In this non-decision debate against Harris and Henderson of Westminster, the Davidson men took the negative side of the question, “Resolved: That the National Labor Relations Board should be empowered to enforce arbitration of all labor disputes.”

Haywood Hill and Neal Scott will uphold the affirmative side of a debate with Westminster College of New Wilmington, Pa., tonight at 7:30 in Phi Hall.

M.H. Goodrum Co.
ZENITH RADIOS

The question is, “Resolved: That the National Labor Relations Board should be empowered to enforce arbitration of all industrial disputes.”

Hair Cuts DeLuxe
Davidson Barber Shop

Thurs. April 7
Fri. April 8
Tues. April 11

C.R.E.A.M.E.R.Y.
Real Orange Juice at Student Store
PHONE 205
FREE DELIVERY

DAVIDSON THEATRE
“Dangerous To Know”
“First 100 Years”
Sat. April 9
“Gold Is Where You Find It”
MOORESVILLE
“Girl of the Golden West”

Efficient means of keeping a record.

Year Book To Use New Plan
Editor Plans Individual Pictures of Frat Men

The annual this year, for the benefit of the fraternities, has derived a new plan for the different chapter pictures. It will consist of individual pictures rather than the usual group pictures. The photographer also plans to be here in the next three or four days to take pictures for the annual of men in baseball, track, golf, and tennis. These individual pictures of the fraternity men of each chapter will be placed around the seal of the fraternity. The date of the picture and the name of the place, Davidson College, will also be included. The originals of these arrangements will be presented to the chapters themselves while the reproductions will be furnished to the members who desire them. This idea should provide a handy and efficient means of keeping a record.

Bring Her By After the LITTLE PEP
Davidson, N. C.

Council choosing the beneficiary whose work they deem most important.

DR. CUMMING (Continued from Page 3)
Already gained their Ph.D. degree. These grants may be given to men who are doing research in any one of the above-mentioned fields.

SPORTS STACCATO (Continued from Page 4)
Forced out with a split finger, came through in his first big league game with two singles, a triple, and seven perfect assists to earn a place on the Cardinal squad and possibly a starting position at third.

McCLELLAN IS (Continued from Page 1)
Others in the second ballot were Frank Niven with 28 votes, Dick Arnold with 26, and Bob Johnson with 16. All rising sophomores who earned numerals in any sport except Benfield, Coghill, and Stair who are first sergeants, and Hemphill who is sergeant-major attached to the staff.

ALUMNI CLUBS (Continued from Page 3)
Chapters of the association in Boston, Charlottesville, Va., Chattanooga, Tenn., Jacksonville, Fla., Miami, Fla., and Richmond, Va. Later meetings will be held in Morganton, Rock Hill, S. C., Concord, and Greensboro.

ALL THIS WEEK...
64 Years of Successful Banking
SERVING THE PIEDMONT CAROLINAS IN EVERY BANKING FORM
Commercial National Bank
Charlotte, N. C.

Debonair, giving his grandest performance! And Annabella... in her first American-made picture!

WILLIAM POWELL
ANNABELLA
in
“BARONESS and the BUTLER”

First for refreshing mildness — first for pleasing taste and aroma that smokers like — only cigarette about which smokers say “They Satisfy.” The mild ripe tobaccos — home-grown and aromatic Turkish — and the pure cigarette paper used in Chesterfields are the best ingredients a cigarette can have. They Satisfy.

Weekly Radio Features
GRACE MOORE
ANDRE KOSTELANETZ
PAUL WHITEMAN
DEEMS TAYLOR
PAUL DOUGLAS

Copyright 1938, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.