WED., DEC. 14, 1938 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Three

Firm Gives Prizes For Best Jokes

Six Jokes Will Be Printed In Spring Issue Of Scripts And Pranks

After three nights of very serious deliberation, a committee of prominent townspeople and the magazine staff have at last decided
the winners of the College Pharmacy joke contest. This contest was originated purely for the advancement of humor on the
Davidson campus and not for any advertising purposes. The winners and their prizes are as follows: First prize, Bill Mitchell,
a two-pound box of Nunnally’s candy; second prize, Luke Graham, twenty free cones of Biltmore ice cream; third prize, Bill
Bolin, ten free passes to the Pitch-Patch Bowling Alley; fourth prize, Dave Colvin, one year's subscription to the Scripts and
Pranks; fifth prize, Sidney Sample, three passes to the Davidson theatre.

Conducted By Sapp

The contest was directed by Mr. Sapp of the College Pharmacy, who termed it, “The tremendous, most gigantic, stupendous, colossal,
amazing, astounding, gigantic thing of its kind ever held in Mecklenburg County.” For this remark, Manager Sapp was awarded sixth
prize in the contest, a can of Clapp’s baby food donated by White Drug Co.

Simple Rules

Even a child could have won a prize, and did. No labels, coupons, car tops, or stamps were required, just
one new joke that had not appeared in the Scripts and Pranks more than once. The rules, which were simple
as well as easy to follow, were:
1. It must be typed.
2. It must be in by November 20.
3. It must be funny.
4. It must be typed.
5. It must be funny.
6. It can be funny and still be accepted.

The jokes were all submitted to the College Pharmacy, which requested that they be brought when the author needed drinks
(soft), toiletries, drugs, or sundries. If he did not need something immediately, he should wait until he did to submit
his joke and thus save himself a trip. The jokes were to have been printed in the Christmas issue of
the magazine, but the judges were unable to decide the winners soon enough. Therefore, the six jokes will be published
in the Spring issue.

Beavers Plan Possum Hunt

Members of Davidson's hardworking Beaver Club have decided to stage a ‘possum hunt for themselves and their dates on the
first Saturday night after the termination of the Christmas holidays. At the last meeting of the Club, President “Buck” Powell
appointed a committee consisting of Bob Balsley, Jack Ferguson, Casey Jones, Jack Holland, and himself to make more complete arrangements.

(Continued on Page Six)

CAMERAS Photograph Supplies W. I. VAN NESS N. Tryon St. CHARLOTTE, N. C.

"Wing It" Saxie

Hal Kemp, currently playing in Chicago, is shown here with “Saxie” Dowell, his novelty singer. Other vocalists featured with the
band are Judy Starr and Bob Allen. Kemp and his band have been engaged by the Pan-Hellenic Council to play
for the Saturday dances of the Mid-Winter set. Kemp has one of the most popular orchestras in the country and
is heard currently over the major radio networks.

AMONG THE GREEKS

Sigma Phi Epsilon

Professor and Mrs. I. K. Fleagle, Professor and Mrs. H. E. Fulcher, Dr. and Mrs. A. V. Goldiere, Major and
Mrs. C. L. Steele, and Professor J. T. Kimbrough were with the Chapter Sunday night at a feed. Mrs. N.
T. Smith, Mr. E. L. Cloyd, Dean of N. C. State, with his wife, and Misses Mary Workman, Charlotte McAden,
Peggy Harrison, Frances Robinson, and Sybil Trexler of Charlotte; Miriam Salley of Union, S. C.; Fay Paul of Salisbury; Ella
Keene Steele of Davidson; and Mrs. John Doty, also of Davidson, were also present.

Pi Kappa Alpha

Sunday night the following faculty members were present at a feed held in the Pika House: Dr. and Mrs. Shewmake,
Dr. and Mrs. Knight, Dr. and Mrs. Hillhouse, and Colonel and Mrs. Armstrong. Among the guests in attendance were Mr.
and Mrs. Charles Petty of Charlotte, Mr. and Mrs. W. H. Suttenfield, and Mr. and Mrs. J. A. Scott of
Statesville. Misses Phylis Crooks, Janie Knox, Helen Westerfield, Gladys Scott, Elizabeth Lyes, Betsy Springer, (Continued on Page Six)

CHRISTMAS CANDIES & GIFTS SOUTHERN 5 & 10c STORE DAVIDSON, N. C.

THE HIGH SCORE OF Last Week WAS SET BY TOM CAUBLE — 157 PITCH-PATCH Bowling Alleys M. P. Henderson DAVIDSON,
N. C.

CARS FOR RENT 415 SOUTH TRYON STREET Sporting Goods PAUL & CRYMES, Inc. CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Yuletide Alumni Elect Brown Leader

Dr. Harrison and Fred Smith Talk Before Raleigh Alumni Chapter

Paul P. Brown was elected president of the Raleigh Davidson College alumni chapter at a recent meeting. Mr. Brown, who
is secretary of the North Carolina Banker's Association, succeeds Mr. A. Y. Kelly who is connected with the United States
Fraternity Men Hold Celebration

Phi Delts, Phi Gams, Pikas and Sig Eps Are Among Celebrators

Christmas once again looms before the horizon, and thoughts of home are not far away. On the Davidson campus the
coverings of the Christmas season were officially unwrapped by the annual Vesper Services Sunday night, and immediately following this program
several fraternities took up the theme with their Christmas party. Phi Delta Theta, Pi Kappa Alpha,

Drum-Major

Above is Henry B. Baker from Johnson City, Tennessee, who has completed his fourth year as drum major for the
Davidson College Football Band. He is one of the finest drum majors in the country.Majors in the Lowman formations that
the Davidson Band used last season. Gaw, Webb Make YMCA Deputation Speak At Rock Hill On The Value Of Christmas
To The Individual

Last Sunday, Warren Gaw and Sam Webb represented Davidson at Winthrop, where they presented deputations before the Presbyterian Students’ Association
of the Oakland Avenue Presbyterian Church. The topic of the hour was “What can Christmas mean to me?”

Gaw was the first speaker, saying that Christmas can be a time for thankfulness. He spoke of how Christmas has
been commercialized, how business is capitalizing on the season. He then mentioned, in contrast with this, the many things in
the world for which we can be thankful and urged that we learn to appreciate these things and to develop
our appreciation.

Webb spoke next, putting forward the challenge that Christmas presents. He stated that Christmas looks not only backward but forward
as well, offering some very definite challenges. Christmas offers the challenge to be sympathetic toward others and to develop a
spirit of giving of our talent, material possessions, and time both to the service of God and to our fellow
humans. Again, it offers a challenge to proclaim Christ as master of our lives. If this be accepted, we are
further confronted with the challenge to live accordingly.

[Continued on Page Six]

Three TenAbinucah een Daleiah: and Sigma Phi Epsilon head the list of those celebrating the Yule season last Sunday night.
Last night, the Phi Gams followed up their banquet of Sunday with a party at the house. The house was
decorated with a large, well-lighted tree, and the fratres in collegio with their wives were the guests. Santa Claus arrived
as usual, and the gathering broke up with a feed and the well-known Fiji songs.

The freshmen acted as hosts to the Phi Delts and presented a play (contents not divulged) to the brothers and
guests. An informal feed and song fiesta closed the program. Sigma Phi Epsilon and Pi Kappa Alpha entertained the faculty
and guests also on Sunday night. Christmas carols were sung, and a feed was likewise included in the festivities.

Tonight, the Betas will be the guests of their freshmen, who will put on a minstrel show under the direction
of Albert Winn. The house will be filled with decorations, and Saint Nick will distribute presents to all.

On Thursday, Sigma Alpha Epsilon, Pi Kappa Phi, and Kappa Alpha will display their hospitality to girls and guests. The
S.A.E.s will have a banquet beforehand, and later the freshmen will put on their annual play before the chapter. Pledges
will again act as hosts Thursday night, this time to the brothers of Pi Kappa Phi. They have been decorating
the house all week and practicing their skit in preparation for the big event. Kappa Alpha will entertain the faculty
and girls that night with a feed, frosh play, and Santa Claus.

Rufus Allison Gives Talk To Photo Club

Will Speak On Properties Of Photo Papers Thursday

“Photographic Papers and Their Properties” is the subject of a lecture to be given by Rufus Allison, president of the
Photographic Club, at its regular meeting tonight at seven o'clock in Dr. Lyon's classroom. At this meeting, the last of
the present year, the chemical properties of printing and enlarging papers will be discussed with the aid of material supplied
by Eastman Kodak Co. Slides will be shown as well as specimen prints furnished by them. Allison stated that anyone
interested is cordially invited to attend this discussion. He said that it will not be too technical for the average
person but will be of interest.

The prints supplied by Eastman will be shown at the exhibit in the Social Center, which closes tonight at about
seven. This exhibit also contains about seventy-five prints done by members of the Photographic Club. Ballots are being cast by
visitors to determine the most popular print. The first, second, and third places will be announced sometime this evening.

Wednesday-Thursday

He turned a Hollywood Glamour Girl into a Jail-Bird!

“THE AFFAIRS OF ANNABEL”
— with —
LUCILLE BALL
RUTH DONELLY

Friday-Saturday

Through special arrangements with the producers, we are proud to present to you again—

Robert Louis Stevenson’s
“TREASURE ISLAND”
WITH
WALLACE BEERY
JACKIE COOPER
LEWIS STONE

WE WISH FOR YOU A VERY Merry Christmas AND A PROSPEROUS AND Happy New Year

BROADWAY

Four terms of eleven weeks are given each year. These may be taken consecutively (graduation in three and one-quarter years)
or three terms may be taken each year (graduation in four years). The entrance requirements are intelligence, character, and three
years of college work, including the subjects specified for Class A medical schools. Catalogues and application forms may be obtained
from the Admission Committee.

DUKE UNIVERSITY SCHOOL OF MEDICINE DURHAM, N. C.

EVEN SANTA CLAUS GOES TO “The Roadhouse” RIGHT AT THE VERY LAST MINUTE

IVEY’S WILL BE A GIFT FIVE STORIES HIGH IVEY'S CHARLOTTE, UP TO SHOP

A COMPLETE PRINTING SERVICE

Printers of The Davidsonian

STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY ESTABLISHED 1907

Printing is Our Business

A complete printing service as near as your telephone. For a representative, call 3-5727 CHARLOTTE, N. C.

GREYHOUND

DEC. 12 TO JAN. 1—RETURN LIMIT JAN. 22

Here’s a present everybody will appreciate—special excursion fares for your Holiday travel by Greyhound! Enjoy a Super-Coach trip in an
atmosphere that’s as jolly and warm as the Christmas spirit—at less than half driving cost. Buy extra gifts with your
savings!

Sample Round Trip Excursion Fares

New York ----$15.25
Richmond, Va. --8.35
Atlanta, Ga. ----7.65
Lexington, Ky. --12.25
Columbia, S. C. --3.50
Chattanooga, Tenn. --10.75
Birmingham, Ala. --10.90
Jacksonville --11.90
Miami, Fla. ----21.10
Raleigh ----4.95
