WEDNESDAY, SEPT. 28, 1938 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Question of the Week

Since Davidson turns out with almost a hundred percent attendance at her football games, the question this week concerns everyone. Are the games which are held in Charlotte worth the extra cost? Would you rather that they were held here at Davidson, or is there some other place that would suit us all better? Here is the question as it was given to a few of the students: “What do you think of Davidson holding her football games in Charlotte?”

Julian Squires—Senior: “There are several reasons why I would like to have more of our games played on the campus. There is first of all that extra gate fee, and also the extra expense of transportation. Then, too, the spirit is much better on our home grounds than elsewhere. I think that the spirit means a lot to the team and to the school as a whole.”

Louis Hipp—Senior: “I think that it is good to have at least one game a season held in Charlotte. It gives us a chance to have the trimmings which go along with the games, such as parades and large crowds. It also advertises Davidson to the people of Charlotte and surrounding towns, which fact was shown by the added interest of the newspapers.”

Jack Abernathy, Junior: “I would many times rather have the games held here than in Charlotte. There is more football spirit manifested here than off the campus. Next to Davidson, I like those games held in Greensboro best. If the games are to be held in Charlotte, I hope that they will be played in the afternoon rather than at night as was done this past week.”

Jim Armstrong—Senior: “I can't see the percentage in having a stadium here at Davidson, especially as good a one as we have, and not using it. The students have already paid their athletic fee which gives them admittance to all games, and I don't think that it is fair to make them pay an extra fee to see one of the home games that they have already paid for. I believe, also, that the team can play a better game here than any other place.”

Rufus Allison—Junior: “I would like to see Charlotte made into a big football center, but at the present I think that most of the football games should be held on the campus. I believe that everybody as a whole would rather have them here because of the extra entrance fee. There is one thing to say in favor of it though; those boys who would like to take girls who live in Charlotte don't have to worry about getting them to the game and home again after it is over. I feel, though, that all that can be said for having them away from here is overshadowed by that said against it. The games held here seem to be bigger affairs and I look forward to more of them.”

Sherrard Rice—Senior: “I'm opposed to holding what should be Davidson's home games in Charlotte. Several thousands of dollars have just recently been spent to enlarge the stadium here. The students pay an athletic fee at the beginning of school which is supposed to cover all home games. Second, because it creates an extra expense and causes trouble in transportation for students. We have a good stadium here at Davidson, and I believe the students enjoy games at home just as much or more than they do away from home.”

Schenck and Johnston Earn Degrees At Yale

Professors Receive Honors in Recognition of Excellent Theses

During the past summer Dr. Lewis H. Schenck, Associate Professor of Religious Education of Davidson, and Dr. Frontis W. Johnston, Associate Professor of History of Davidson, received their Ph.D. degrees from Yale University.

Dr. Schenck, who received his Ph.D. in theology, finished his work with a thesis written on the subject of the Presbyterian Doctrine of Children of the Covenant. This discussion was highly commended by Dean Weigle and the department of Religious Education and has been chosen for publication in “The Yale Historical Series.” Dr. Schenck now has the following degrees: A.B. Davidson College; B.D. Union Seminary; A.L.Th. Princeton University; and Ph.D. Yale University.

Dr. Johnston received his degree in history. The title of his thesis was “The Evolution of the American Concept of National Planning.” This thesis won the “George Washington Egleston Historical Prize of 1938” and has been published recently. Dr. Johnston graduated from Davidson College in 1930 with an A.B. degree and received his doctor's degree this past summer at Yale.

Fourfold Plan Is Suggested

M. P. Nelson Points Out Advice to Youths Gaining An Education

“Budget your time. Approach your educational work much as you would a regular job. Have a definite time set for work, play, and social activities.”

So declared M. P. Nelson, assistant to the president of North Park College, Chicago, in an address designed principally for the multitude of American youths who are entering for the first time or returning to some college or university this fall. Nelson, a well-known educator, admonished college students to spend their time well in learning to meet conditions found in a rapidly changing world.

Nelson outlined a four-point program to be followed so as to prevent the futile search for jobs at the end of college life. They were:

1. “Analyze your abilities, interests, and personality to learn your strong and weak points so you can formulate your educational and future vocational plans on your outstanding abilities.
2. “Develop your own personality by taking part in school activities.
3. “Develop the right attitude toward work. Having a part-time job is the best training a student can get to help bridge the gap between school experience and work.
4. “Study the changing occupational world. Scientific and technological advances bring about many changes in the job market.”

Davidson Men Attend Party

Mitchell Girls Entertain

Myers Urges ‘Be Different’

Greensboro Pastor Stresses Individualistic Personality At Vespers

Dr. Charles F. Myers used as his text for the Sunday night Vesper Services in Chambers Auditorium at 7:20, “Peter, turning about, seeth the disciple whom Jesus loved following; who also leaned on his breast at the supper, and said, Lord, who is he that betrayeth thee?”

In his sermon Dr. Myers pointed out that every human went through three stages of emotions. The stage during which we assert ourselves in a land manner of sin; the next stage is being sick of ourselves which inevitably follows our sinful assertions; and the third and last stage is that of forgetting ourselves in a good and complete willful service for our fellow men.

“The man who makes his place in the world today is one who has character and industry,” emphatically stated Dr. Myers. He urged men not to follow the crowd, but to be strong in their own convictions and to follow them. Pointing out the differences in men who did not sin for fear of the consequences and men who did not sin because they had strong convictions, Dr. Myers held up the wonderful personality of Jesus as an example to follow. In closing his sermon, Dr. Myers brought out the fact that man needs power, which he may gain through pardon, faith in Jesus, and prayer: a communication with God very often in order to accomplish the purpose from the world.

Beavers Hold First Meeting

Pres. Akers Does Not Return; Powell Takes Over

The formal meeting of the Beaver Club Thursday evening at 9:00 o'clock in the parlor of Watts Dormitory has been set for this week. Charlie Akers, who was president of the club last year, will not return to school this fall. President “Buck” Powell will preside at the business meeting Thursday night. Bob Wood is the secretary-treasurer.

The purpose of the club, which was renewed last year after a lapse of activity several years back, is to act as hosts and entertain visiting athletic teams and visitors on the Davidson campus. Several social functions are planned for the near future. Fred Smith, Alumni Secretary, who was president of the original club, vice-president of the reorganized club, and an outstanding figure in the present club, will act in an advisory capacity for the group as he has done since its revival.

One of the most important things to be considered at the Thursday evening meeting is the question of keys for members of the club.

Newell To Choose Student Speakers

Hey! Wanta Buy a Duck?

Campus Salesmen Can Furnish Anything From Shoe Laces to Automobiles

Freshmen, when you come to a problem, snap your fingers. Snaps, Niskey, Greens, Boro, or Willard Journal, the answer will come. Are you cool? The answer is in the Arrow shirt from Pant Crane on the RCA-Victor sold by the Pharmacy. Staggering to the door, he finds Ralph Markey’s Charlotte Observer, Bobby Williams’ Daily News, Shore's Winston-Salem Journal awaiting outside. Slowly he begins to dress. On goes that shirt and trousers bought from the firms of Harry Castlegate or John W. Moore. Shoes and socks from Charlie Akers. He brushes off with a corduroy bush jacket bought from Dick Spencer. Breakfast is managed at a boarding house. As the classes drag on, in the intervening lecture period, to get off that long past-due letter, out comes a sheet of stationery bought from Locke Spencer. In the lab, he wears his rubber apron from Locke White. He gets out just in time to play a set or two of tennis with his newly restrung racquet, of course by the Wilson brothers. No wonder the Wolfpack and the Wildcats fought so valiantly on Saturday night, inspired onward by the parade which was held on Saturday afternoon. The parade included seven bands and many carloads of cheering State and Davidson students. Reading left to right, are Miss State, Betty Honeycutt; Miss Charlotte, Pearl Hankins; and Miss Davidson, Ruth Covington.Joint Meeting With Spectators Club

The first meeting of the Philanthropic Literary Society was held Tuesday evening at 7:30 in the large hall. A large number of old members were present. The admission requirements were submitted and voted upon. Candidates for entrance were discussed and then voted upon.

The program was under the leadership of Dan Walker, chairman of the program committee. The meeting included a book review by Wolhanie, impromptu talks by Archer Dortey, and debates. The president of the society, Abernathy, presided over the meeting and the attendees rendered their criticisms.

The Spectator Club of Queens College will be the guest at the joint meeting on October 14. The enthusiasm displayed was great, and it was voted to have regular meetings with the Spectator Club. The Philanthropic Literary Society was tendered a challenge to an open-air debate in the near future.

Announcements regarding the Rhodes Scholarships will appear in The Davidsonian. Recent alumni considering applying for the Rhodes Scholarships are urged to communicate with Dr. G. R. Vowles at an early date to ensure their candidacy is given full consideration. Almost every year, some alumnus writes in after all selections have been made by the college committee.

Summer Camp Again Success

Members of the Davidson Music Department faculty, very versatile and talented musicians, engaged in various activities during the past summer. They presented several concerts and took many precautions to ensure safety on local streets and highways. New signs and speed limits were enforced to prevent accidents.

New Members

Authorities plan to do everything possible to ensure the safety of pedestrians and motorists. Davidson is one of the few towns with such up-to-date safety measures.

Pioneer Photographer's Buildings

Pictures of Eu and Phi Halls will be placed in the Library of Congress. Miss Frances Benjamin Johnston, the first newspaper photographer, visited the community last September and photographed various buildings and structures. These photographs will be included in the American architecture collection at the Library of Congress.

Miss Johnston, assisted by Prof. Chalmers Davidson, took photographs of early plantation houses and other historical buildings in the area. These photographs will be part of a national survey of early American architecture.

Music Tutors Engage in Varied Activities

Mr. James Droit and Mr. Thang McDonald taught high school music for six weeks. Mr. McDonald also attended the Christiansen Choral School in Chambersburg, PA, and observed various techniques. Mr. Kiker, a Davidson voice instructor, spent his summer in New York teaching and performing at the Mozart Festival in Asheville.

Davidson College Men Should Wear the British Lounge Models

For fall, the British Lounge models will be in style, featuring fabrics like herringbones and sharkskin, and colors like grey, green, and blue. These suits will be available at J. K. Hampton Grocery.

Bill Johnston—Football Player

Since the Richardson brothers donated our stadium, which I believe is superior to the one in Charlotte, I think all home games should be held here. The school spirit seems better, and it gives the public an opportunity to come in contact with student life on the campus.

Rufus Plonk—Senior

I am against games that could be played at Davidson being held in Charlotte. It is a disadvantage to the team to play on a field they are not used to.

Goodbye

The Student Christian Association of Mitchell College, Statesville, invited the members of the Davidson "Y" Cabinet and those associated with "Y" work to a party held at Mitchell last Friday night. The boys were auctioned off for bids, and the rest of the evening was spent playing games and roasting frankfurters.

Wade Boggs, Y. M. C. A. secretary, made a deputation to Bessemer City Sunday morning, speaking in the Long Creek Presbyterian Church.