WEDNESDAY, FEB. 23, 1938. THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Five

French Club Meets With Dr. Goldière

Society Holds Tryouts For Horror Play “L’Homme de la Nuit”

Philanthropic Entertains Queen’s Group

ROTC Rifle Team Loses to Citadel Marksmen in Close Match at Charleston

Smith Performs For Quadrangle Club

Magician Presents a Number Of Interesting Tricks Of Wizardry

Le Cercle Français, honorary French society, held its monthly meeting at the home of Dr. A. V. Goldière on Tuesday, Feb. 15.

The meeting opened with tryouts for the play “L’Homme de la Nuit” to be presented by the society. The part of William, the artist, was taken by A. R. Cates; Bernard, the butler, taken by Archibald Torrey and Sam Spencer, Torrey being chosen for the part; Flossie, the heroine, by Don Davidson and Phillip Edwards, Davidson being given the part; the part of Edith, a visitor of Flossie, given to Sidney Crane; Maggie, the artist’s wife given to R. R. King; and Hodgson, the detective, given to Newton Smith.

The next play to be presented by the society will be “La Lettre.” Tryouts will be held at a later meeting.

Following the tryouts, a debate was held. The subject of the debate was “Resolved, that Davidson should be co-educational.” John Reisner and O. V. Armstrong took the affirmative, while J. P. Rostand and J. S. Raynal the negative. Many interesting and humorous points were brought out, being that the debate was of a light type. The meeting was concluded with French puzzles in which all members took part and then refreshments were served.

The Philanthropic Literary Society entertained forty members of the Spectator Club, Queens-Chicora literary society, in their hall here last Tuesday evening. Members of both societies took part in a joint program. Above is a group which gathered during the social hour (left to right): Miss Susanna Milwee, Charlotte; Russell Kerr; Jerry Doster; Miss Frances Gunn, president of the Spectator Club; Bill Broadway, president of the Philanthropic Society; Miss Betty Baker, Charlotte; Miss Harriett Brown, Gainesville, Fla.; Neal Baker.—(Courtesy of Charlotte News).

Professor Baker Talks of Graduate Schools

John Baker, director of research at Queen’s University, visited the Davidson campus last week to talk to undergraduates about various graduate schools.

Band Meets

The Ministerial Band held its regular meeting Sunday in the Philanthropic Hall, at which time an interesting round table discussion was held on important business matters.

Betas End “Hell Week” and Initiate Eleven Men

Active Brothers of Beta Theta Pi ended their “Hell Week” with the formal initiation on Friday night and the formal on Saturday at the Charlotte Hotel. Those initiated were Bob Barnwell, Louis Garrou, Granville Sharpe, Bob Eller, Billy Summerville, Joe McLeskey, Jake Mock, and Oscar Pearce.

The meeting was opened with devotionals and a few songs. The main topic of discussion at the business meeting was the budget, and what should be done with part of the money. It was suggested that deputations be sent out with some of the money and also that some of the small churches be aided by gifts to them.

Ryburn Says Issue Will Have Feminine Touch

In the spring a (Davidson) young man’s fancy lightly turns to — well at least a few thoughts of the spring issue of Scripts ‘n Pranks, Editor Ryburn hopes to make it even more attractive. There will be a bit of the feminine touch. As a distinctly novel feature, this “Chicken Issue” is to contain an article consisting of the views of the fairer sex on the subject of all things. This question...

Societies Will Engage In Challenge Debate

At the meeting last week of the Philanthropic Literary Society, a challenge was accepted to debate the Eumenean next Tuesday night, March 1. The subject to be: Resolved that America should declare an economic boycott against Japan. This debate, an annual event won by the Phi’s last year, presents...

Freshmen voting: The Mumeanean Rainy Mains were made; a quieter room for those interested in private worship was discussed. The brain-child of Ryburn, a director of the “400” in Greensboro on Saturday, were given the exchange of ideas. Tentative bids will be issued next week.

The group decides to hold a joint meeting with the Student Volunteers on March 4, to celebrate the Universal day set aside for prayer. An early devotional will be held before breakfast on that day, followed by other services. 

After the discussions were over, Bob Ramsey, Reid Newland, and Archer Torrey gave their reports on several trips that they had taken on deputations. George Milne rendered a violin solo. There were several visitors to the program.

The deadline for material for this issue of the magazine is Feb. 28, and Editor Ryburn hopes to get the finished product in the hands of eager readers by spring vacation.

The Photographic Club was addressed Tuesday night, February 22, by Professor Thomas E. Lothery on “Various Types of Portrait Lighting, Both Flat and Dramatic.” He discussed the dramatic type of portrait lighting, which is used by motion pictures and publicity to personify some special trait of the subject being photographed. He briefly talked of the general characteristics of motion picture lighting, with particular emphasis upon the tremendous volume of light used.

Professor Lothery explained the different methods of posing people for indoor and outdoor pictures. He discussed the difficulties and, at the same time, advantages of pictures being taken in direct sunlight, even to shooting against the sun at times. He finished with a discussion of outdoor photography from a commercial standpoint.

This session is (you guessed it) in the nature of an advertisement of the advantages of the Inn, and in addition to music as interpreted by our own Chubby King, there will be refreshments served to all the guests. This is free to any Davidsonian who grasps the situation and takes advantage of it.