CAT TALES By TONI CASALI

One thing that has truly been neglected during the past few years by this sports page is to pay tribute to one of Davidson's most ardent followers and one who really has the Wildcat spirit. This happens to be none other than Mr. White, Davidson's faithful trainer. It is almost useless to say what good Mr. White has been to athletes on the campus. He is almost a tradition, just like the man that preceded him, Doc Charley. Mr. White has taken up where Doc Charley left off. He is the first one to help an injured athlete and it is up to him to get the injured one back in shape and this he does without a whimper. Besides all this, he looks after the field, gym, or what have you. I think we all ought to give him a hand, don't you?

This week's proverbial orchids go to Coach Spearman, who probably has the distinction of coaching the team with the best record of any for the year. His freshman cindermen have lost only one meet out of five scheduled. This is truly a record, and perhaps the best one ever enjoyed by a freshman team. Along with Spearman, orchids should also be handed to Heath Whittle, intramural sports director, for presenting the student body with a well-balanced intramural program. The program this year proved to be especially popular, and the students showed their interest in the program by presenting some classy teams that put up close races in the different sports.

CAT HITTING

Players AB R H Pet.
STEERE 40 14 350
RUDISILL 47 15 319
FITZGERALD 29 9 310
KELLAM 55 15 273
HICKS 33 9 273
HAND 42 12 288
HUNTER 40 11 275
DUNFORD 39 8 205
HEMPHILL 55 10 182
CLARK 22 4 182
McLEAN 36 6 167
THOMAS 36 6 167
VERNER 32 5 156
MOYER 30 4 133
LINDSEY 10 0 000
FICKLEN 1 0 000
TOTALS 512 100 120 234

Davidson's baseball nine gained sweet revenge last Thursday when they set Catawba's slugging Indians back 4 to 3, thereby proving that the overwhelming defeat the boys from Salisbury handed them earlier in the season was somewhat of an upset. Eddie Steere pitched one of the sweetest games of his career and also aided the cause with several nice hits to his credit. The team also played better defensive ball and continued to do so in the next game with N.C. State. And speaking of the State game, Eddie Berlinski, slugging Wolf centerfielder, certainly must not be "living right." He caught one of Hayseed Thomas' slow ones and rode it right over the left field fence with plenty of room to spare. But the thing about it was that the ill-omened agate curved and went over the fence on the wrong side of the foul line. That's tough.

Several complaints have been raised to the fact that the tennis courts on the campus are not kept in top shape. Surely with one of the finest tennis teams in the state—one that boasts of a good record—they should be afforded good playing grounds. The courts have not been up to par with those of other schools, even smaller schools. It should be looked after.

With exams just around the corner, sports happenings are coming to a standstill for the year and Thursday at the chapel hour the annual athlete day will be held. At this time the inter-class, inter-fraternity wrestling, decathlon, gymnastic, and intramural high scorer trophies will be presented. There has been unusually keen competition for all these trophies this year with the junior class probably running off with the interclass honors and the Fijis with the inter-frat cup. Other winners have not been named as yet.

RAMBLING NOTES: Bailey Williams, hefty football captain, has been offered a contract to play pro-football, but he is still undecided as to whether he will accept or not... This is the first year in a good while that a decathlon champion of the school will be picked... George McAfee, in addition to being a pretty good football player, dashed over the century event against the 'Cats last Saturday for the fast time of 9.9 seconds, which is pretty near to flying. They say that he came in, turned around, and watched the other runners come in.

Phi Gams Win Softball Crown For Second Year

S.P.E.’s Come in Second in Hotly Contested Race

The Phi Gams won the intramural volleyball crown for the second straight year as they defeated the S.P.E.'s 12-2 in the final round of the tourney. Bob Johnston tossed good ball for the winners as did John Tice for the losers, but superior hitting told the tale in favor of the Phi Gams. The fifth inning was their big inning, in which they scored seven runs after they had already gone into a four-run lead. Reid led the hitting with three for three.

In the semi-final round, the Phi Gams took the K. Sigs 12-7. Again, Johnston pitched for them while McGeachy handled the mound for the Kappa Sigs. Watkins, Kappa Sig centerfielder, had three for four to lead the willow benders. In the other semi-final game, the S.P.E.'s won 5-1 over the S.A.E.'s. Tice and Nicholson were the rival moundsmen. Faison and Sample looked good both at bat and in the field.

The Betas and the Pikas gained the final round of the consolation matches during the past week, the former by virtue of winning over the Phi Delts and Pi Kappa Phi's, and the latter with a bye all the way to the last round. The KA's lost to the Betas, 2-16. The winners capitalized on several errors although Schabel pitched good ball and played tight in the field to limit the losers to two runs in the first frame. The second, third, and sixth innings were big for the Betas.

To get the most out of life, don't take yourself too seriously.

415 South Tryon St.

CHEZ NORTON
Quality Coiffeur de l’Aristocratie Davidsonienne

J. K. HAMPTON
DAVIDSON, N. C.

PAUL & CRYMES, Inc.
- - Sporting Goods - -

Plebe-Netmen Defeat Central

Davidson's freshman tennis team broke even with Central High in Charlotte last week, losing 7-2 Monday afternoon and winning 6-3 on Wednesday. Results: Singles—Shore (D) over Spurrier 3-6, 18-16, 6-3. Boyte over Sproull (D) 6-3, 6-3. Owens over Foote (D) 6-3, 8-6. Bumbarger (D) over Andrews 6-2, 6-1. Missick over Eller (D) 6-1, 6-2. Jordon over Hobson (D) 8-6, 6-2. Doubles—Spurrier and Boyte licked Shore and Sproull (D) 6-2, 2-6, 6-2. Owens and Jordon licked Eller and Foote (D) 6-4, 6-2. Andrews and Missick licked Bumbarger and Hobson (D) 6-3, 7-5.

On Wednesday afternoon, the Kittens turned the tables on Central High and trounced them 6-3. This was the final match of the season for the freshmen.

Varsity Golf Team Closes Fair Season

The Wildcat varsity golf team closed out their season last week, having registered six wins and three losses for the competitive season. A match with Wake Forest and the Southern Conference tournament had to be dropped for academic reasons. The 'Cats defeated Catawba twice, South Carolina, University of Georgia, Hampden-Sydney, and Alabama. They were beaten by the Citadel, University of Florida, and North Carolina. In the Southern Intercollegiate Tourney held at Athens, Ga., Charlie Pegram and Henson Maples went to the semi-finals in the championship and second flights respectively. Ray Pittman lost in the finals in the fourth flight. The team placed eighth. In the State tournament held at Sedgefield, the 'Cats placed third, behind Duke and Carolina.

THIS CHANGING WORLD

"This world was created several years back, and really will continue several years more, I hope. Changing hats, changing dresses, changing styles, etc. are all indications of this changing world." Natalie Simpson, Texas State College for Women, junior, wins a speaking contest with her version of "This Changing World."

Usually two or three years of hard preliminary work are required to ensure a "spontaneous" popular response to a newidea. 

A. S. BROWN
General Merchandise, Paragon Dress Shirts, Endicott Army Shoes
Telephone No. 7
Charlotte, N. C.

MOU RAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAALS

Bowling! Billiards!
REX RECREATION
—and—
20th CENTURY BOWLING
AIR-CONDITIONED YEAR ROUND
FREE TELEPHONE

-more in the third and Wingate got
Wildcats Lose Meet to Tracksters
Dukes Show Decided Edge in Running Events; ’Cats Strong in Field

The Duke Blue Devils warmed up for Saturday's Southern Conference meet on Saturday by beating the Davidson track team 91-34. The Devils swept all the places in the broad jump, the 880, 440, and the 100. George McAfee, football quarterback, was the high scorer for the meet, and turned in a 9.9 performance in the 100. The Wildcats proved to be very strong in the field events.

Summary:
High jump—Black (D) first (5 ft. 7 in.); Minor (Duke) second; Bowman (Duke) third.
Pole Vault—Fyles (Duke) first (11 ft.); Fort (D) second.
Shot put—Crisp (D) first (40 ft. 6 3-4 in.); Ribar (Duke) second; Spangler (Duke) third.
Javelin—Sullivan (Duke) first (175 ft. 7 in.); Clark (Duke) second; Johnson (D) third.
Mile run—Jones (Duke) first (4:45); Walker (D) second; Parcell (D) third.
440—Reavis (Duke) first (49.7); Leckie (Duke) second; Naudain (Duke) third.
100—McAfee (Duke) first (9.9); Hackney (Duke) second; Winterson (Duke) third.
120 high hurdles—Kinzle (Duke) first (14.8); Hudgins (Duke) second; Wicker (D) third.
880—Johnson (Duke) first (2:00.4); Ritter (Duke) second; Tischler (Duke) third.
Discus—Williams (D) first (136 ft. 8 in.); Fischer (Duke) second; Willis (Duke) third.
220—McAfee (Duke) first (22 flat); Baker (D) second; Winterson (Duke) third.
Two mile—Woodward (D) first (10:38.3); Hauser (Duke) second; Gammon (D) third.
220 low hurdles—Hudgins (Duke) first (25.3); Spangler (Duke) second; Wicker (D) third.
Broad jump—Hackney (Duke) first (20 ft. 11 in.); Winterson (Duke) second; Spangler (Duke) third.

Kit Baseball Team Beaten

The frosh baseball team ended their season on Wednesday after losing two games during the week to Wingate College 3-14, and to R. J. Reynolds High, 1-17. Monday afternoon against Wingate, McLeskey and Horton shared the Kitten mound duties and gave up 14 hits while their mates got 11. Davidson in the first frame made three hits and two walks for six runs. The Kits scored three more in the second to give the frosh an eight-run lead, but nine Wingate scores in the fourth drove McLeskey from the mound and put the visitors ahead. Reynolds High romped on the frosh Wednesday as Reinhardt and Horton were knocked hard for 16 hits in a seven-inning game, while the Kits were helpless with two hits. Winston-Salem climaxed a steady attack with eight runs in the fifth to put the game on ice. Niven, Kit first-sacker, smashed a homer to center field.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

“Black Dog” Hunter, colorful Wildcat second-sacker, has proved himself a star in his first year of varsity ball. The diminutive infielder had no peer on the 'Cat club as a baserunner and hard hitter in the pinches.

Frosh Beaten By Winston Hi

The Davidson Wildkittens were trounced by the track team from the R. J. Reynolds High School of Winston-Salem on Wednesday by the score of 74-38. Archie Taylor and Spease of Winston-Salem and John Donaldson of the Davidson frosh tied for scoring honors of the afternoon by garnering 10 points apiece. Taylor won both the hurdle events in excellent time by winning the 200 yd. low hurdles in 23.5 seconds, and the 120 yd. high hurdles in 15.2 seconds. Donaldson won the pole vault at a height of 9 feet 9 inches, and he also took first in the javelin by hurling it 156 feet. Jim Vawter of Winston-Salem won out over Louis Garrou in the mile run by running the distance in 4:44. Spease won both the 100 and the 220 yd. dashes. He nosed out Jack White of Davidson in both of these events by winning the 100 in 10.8 and the 220 in 22.5.

The following are the All-class and All-Fraternity softball teams as picked by Junior Alcorn and “Footsie” Cowan:

All Class
2b Bolin—Sophomore
SS McQueen—Senior
1b Reid—Senior
3b Faison—Senior
Lf Woodward, H.—Junior
Rf Miller, H.—Senior
C Wilson, Hank—Junior
Sf Darby—Junior
Cf Barker Lee—Freshman
P Tice—Junior
P Schabel—Sophomore

Honorable Mention
Frosh—Pharr, Johnson
Soph—Miller, Winters, Powell
Junior—Benfield, Matthis
Senior—Ganier, Ganier

All Frat
Rf Robinson—SAE
1b Benefield—Phi Gam
2b Mathis—SAE
3b Faison—SAE
SS Reid—Phi Gam
Lf Woodward—KA
C Pharr—Phi Gam
Sf McQueen—Kappa Sig
Cf Goodman—Phi Gam
P Tice—Phi Gam
P Johnson—Phi Gam

Honorable Mention
Marquess—Phi Delts
Pittman—Kappa Sigs
Dennis—Kappa Alpha
Schabel—Kappa Alpha
Cloyd—SPE
Lyons—SPE
Sample—SPE
Kornegay—SAE
Parrish—Phi Gams
Akers—Pikas
Durham—Pikas
Wilson—Pi Kaps
Bradburn—Betas
Irwin—Betas

Frosh Golfers

The freshman golfers have closed out their regular season with three wins and six losses. The Kits defeated Wake Forest Frosh, G.M.A., and High Point High. They were beaten in turn by Carolina Frosh, Raleigh High, High Point High, Charlotte High twice, and Wake Forest. The team was composed of Sharpe, Abels, Marshall, Brinson, and Betty. Several of the Kittens show varsity promise.

FEAST HONORS STAFF
(Continued from Page 1)

from the Charlotte Engraving Company, and Mr. F. W. Fredrickson, also of Charlotte.

To the Senior Class

Staple and Fancy Groceries - Country Produce
H. M. Johnston
Phone No. 20—Davidson, N. C.

Henderson Jewelry Shop
Watch and Jewelry Repairing

Kellam Gets Two for Four

Playing three games during the past week to close the 1938 season, the varsity won two and lost one as Furman went down 12-2, Catawba suffered a 5-4 defeat, and N. C. State won, 3-0.

On May 10 the Wildcats beat Furman behind the seven-hit pitching of J. D. Hicks, who had his third win in four starts and whiffed twelve batters. Fitzgerald led the 'Cat hitters with three for four as Davidson batted out fifteen hits. The Davidson attack got under way in the first when Tubby Hand homered with “Black Dog” Hunter on base.

Davidson 202 230 12x—12 15 1
Furman 000 101 000— 2 7 5
Batteries: Hicks and Kellam; Speigner and Lee.

Davidson’s second victory came when they rallied in the eighth inning after being two runs behind. Two errors, a hit batsman, Steere’s single and Hand's two-bagger scored three runs and won the game.

Davidson 000 200 03x— 5 7 4
Catawba 010 001 020— 4 8 4
Batteries: Steere and Kellam; Brown and Davis.

Hayseed Thomas allowed but three hits in five innings after he relieved Hicks, who pulled a muscle in the State game on Saturday. Holshouser, State twirler, batted in all three of their runs with a double in the second inning.

Davidson 000 000 000— 0 1 3
State 030 000 000— 3 6 6
Batteries: Hicks, Thomas and Kellam; Holshouser and Smith.

1938 Wildcat Football Card

The 1938 Wildcat football team will meet ten teams next fall, with The Citadel and Wofford replacing Harvard and Centre on the schedule. The schedule follows:

Sept. 17—The Citadel (away).
Sept. 24—N. C. State (Charlotte)
Oct. 1—Duke (Durham)
Oct. 8—Erskine (Home)
Oct. 14—South Carolina (Sumter)
Oct. 22—North Carolina (Home)
Oct. 29—Furman (away)
Nov. 5—Wofford (Home)
Nov. 12—V. M. I. (Homecoming)
Nov. 24—Wake Forest (Charlotte) Thanksgiving.

INVISIBLE RE-WEAVING SERVICE
Burns and Tears Rewoven
507 INDEPENDENCE BLDG.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

THE BANK OF DAVIDSON
"SERVICE WITH SAFETY"
J. R. WITHERS, Pres. J. V. LORE, Cashier
C. A. POTTS, Vice-Pres. Wm. H. JETTON, Asst. Cash.

DIRECTORS
J. M. DOUGLAS
M. H. GOODRUM
F. L. JACKSON
W. W. WOODS
JOHN W. MacCONNELL
C. A. POTTS
J. R. WITHERS

THANKS A MILLION.

For Making Our Store Your Drug Store This Year.
DAVIDSON'S "SERVICE DRUG STORE"
KNOX. PHARMACY