Page Six THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, FEB. 16, 1938

Your Film Report Card
By HENRY B. BAKER

The quality of each picture is determined by the number of stars—more stars mean a better picture.

Wednesday, Feb. 16
Feature No. 1
* “WINE, WOMEN AND HORSES”
Barton McLean and Ann Sheridan.
This is the story of a gambler who couldn't resist the lure of the race tracks. Beautiful Ann is the
one who becomes involved in his wild life and helps him straighten out his various difficulties.

Feature No. 2
“MISSING WITNESSES”
John Litel, Dick Purcell, and Jean Dale.
Although there were crimes committed before the law’s efforts to subdue them, nobody would talk. The law’s efforts were eventually
rewarded with success.

Thurs. & Fri. Feb. 17-18
“BIG BROADCAST OF 1938”
Dorothy Lamour, Martha Ray, Grace Bradley, Shep Fields and his orchestra.
A high-type musical that is bound to go over big with its outstanding cast, a part of which is named
above.

Sat. Feb. 19
“CHECKERS”
Jane Withers, Stuart Erwin, and Una Merkel.
Jane owns a horse and with her friends enters him in a race. The story is climaxed by the horse
winning despite a broken leg.

Mon. & Tues. Feb. 21-22
“EVERYBODY SING”
Judy Garland, Allan Jones, Fanny Brice, Reginald Owen, and Billie Burke.
An all-around good show with several musical highlights furnished by the splendid voices of Judy and Allan. Several comedy skits
are furnished by Fanny Brice.

CAT RUNNERS (Continued from Page 4)
Several freshmen have been working out with the varsity also and it is possible several will be taken to enter
the freshman competition.

The Davidson College Symphonic Band, under the direction of Mr. Robert C. Smith, gave a concert in Odell Memorial Auditorium
in Greensboro on Tuesday evening, Feb. 8. This was the first concert given by the band since Mr. Smith, director
of the Central High School Orchestra and the Alexander Graham High School band and orchestra, took charge in the absence
of Mr. James C. Pfohl.

SWINGY SET (Continued from Page 1)
The word “mid-winter” occupied the center of the multi-colored heart, in blazing silver, on the ball auditorium’s crystal bandstand. The
bandstand reflected rays of light throughout the ballroom during the “no-break” numbers. Members of the faculty, along with many friends
of Davidson in Charlotte and surrounding towns, were invited to chaperon the affair. Bunny Berigan, known in New York as
the “hottest man in town,” was featured along with his orchestra, and Gail Reese, a lovely songstress whose name may
already be seen among the top-ranking vocalists of the day. Twice during the weekend, Berigan and his orchestra went on
the air over station WBT in Charlotte.

Fuzzless peaches with free stones have been developed at Rutgers U. by Prof. M. A. Blake.

A. S. BROWN
General Merchandise, Paragon Dress Shirts, Endicott Army Shoes

SOCIETIES IN JOINT MEET (Continued from Page 1)
The meeting was opened by the Philanthropic President, Bill Broadway, after which Marion Bryant read the Devotional. A challenge for
a debate from the Eu menian Society was read and enthusiastically accepted by the entire assembly. The Spectator Club then
put on an amusing playlet, “No, No, A Thousand Times No!” This was followed by a musical number approved for
the Phi Society. Following hotly contested elections, the presidency of the Phi Society came by many encores from the fairer
members. Inimitable “Swifty” Ryburn, with his hill-billy brogue, told of “My Trip to New York to See a Prize Fight.”
Ryburn arrived in the metropolis from his Tennessee Mountain home just in time to see his favorite being carried, feet
first, to the showers. John White and Miss Betty Baker were called on to make impromptu speeches. Mr. White spoke
on the “Nuisance Value of Chaperones” while Miss Baker spoke very charmingly on the more serious topic “Romance In A
Moon Drenched Garden.” The meeting ended when the Queens’ chaperon reluctantly decided that it was time to go home. Before
departing, however, the Spectators’ President, Miss Frances Gunn, expressed her sincere appreciation for the evening’s entertainment and hoped that the
Philanthropic group could visit them sometime in the near future.

FOR STUFFY HEAD
A few drops up each nostril reduces swollen membranes, clears away clogging mucus, brings welcome relief.
Vicks VA-TRO-NOL 30c double quantity 50c

CAMPUS TO CAMPUS (Continued from Page 2)
Coeds have found a new way to “mooch” off unsuspecting Joe Colleges at the University of Texas. Here’s the way
it’s done: Girl and boy are standing in front of Texas Union. Coed’s friend comes along and asks girl for
a nickel to buy a drink. Girl friend has no nickel. Result: No alternative for boy. He must buy both
girls a drink.

Forty Montana State College coeds will play guinea pig roles this quarter in tests to determine the vitamin C adequacy
of their habitual diets. These nutrition tests, conducted by the head of the home economics department, are part of a
regional study being made in the northwestern states. Starting simultaneously, more than 150 other coeds at colleges in Washington, Oregon,
Idaho, and Utah will be undergoing similar tests. Four different college women will be under observation each week of the
10-week period.THE CAROLINA Theatre Mooresville FOR NEW AND COLORFUL SHOWS

CAROLINA THEATRE Mooresville, N. C.

Mid-Winter Dates Listed

Gwynn Makes Addresses

Dr. E. Gwynn, Jr., head of the education department, has recently given two addresses, one at Columbia, S. C., and
the other at Greensboro, and is scheduled to give another at Wilmington next week.

At Columbia, Dr. Gwynn spoke to the annual meeting of the Lexington County Education Association last Thursday on the subject,
“Practical Application of Guidance.”

Dr. Gwynn delivered an address, “Christian Ideals in Marriage and the Establishment of a Home” to the annual Y. M.
C. A. Conference, held at Greensboro last Saturday and Sunday.

Phi Gamma Delta: Teeny Grainger, Ann Leet, Wiley, Nancy Hovis, Emily Dunlap, Charlotte; Grace Conley, Franklin; Mena Dye, Branch Fleming,
Wilson; Ann Whalin, Jean Perkins, Winston-Salem; Louise Knowles, Betsey Haywood, Goldsboro; Jo Harlan, Florence, Ala.; Carleton Sterne and Mary Mathews,
Anniston, Ala.; Lemar Efird, Albemarle; and Wilhelmina Monroe, Percy, Miss.

Beta Theta Pi: Virginia Hickman, Fort Smith, Ark.; Glennyce Dalton, Winston-Salem; Ethel Anne Hutchinson and Lucy Kyker, Reidsville; Marguerite Miller,
Charlotte; Jemina Efird, Albemarle; and Wilhelmina Monroe, Percy, Miss.

Sigma Phi Epsilon: Jane Yelverton, Wilson; Virginia Taylor, Harriet Osborne, Mary Sadler, Hazel Adams, Betty Purser, Charlotte; McAden, and Helen
Jenkins, Charlotte; Anna Belle Testerman, Rogersville, Tenn.; Dorothy Davis, Oxford; Frances Ludwick, Nancy Carter, and Christine Cooke, Salisbury; Lillian Wicker,
Statesville; Lois Johnston, Bessemer City; Millie Clarke, Raleigh; Elizabeth Warinner, Crewe, Va.; Kathryn Newborn and Madeline Cobb, Tarboro; Betty Ginger,
Burlington; and Betty Turner, Davidson.

Kappa Alpha: Sarah Glenn, Chester, S. C.; Peggy Cleveland, Nancy Lawrence, Jeannette Propst, Spartanburg, S. C.; Mary Louise Siewers, Dot
Wyatt, and Betsy Hill, Winston-Salem; Eleanor Brown and Eleanor Charlotte; Katharine Batte, Concord; Barbara Davis, Marilyn Brittain, Elizabeth Efird, and
Magdalene McNair, Laurinburg; Keistler and Margaret Boykin, Charlotte; Anne Lu Moore, Columbia, S. C.; Virginia Hame, Columbia, S. C.; Mary
Corbett, Wilmington.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon: Mary Emma Bluefield, W. Va.; Madie Lippitt and Caroline Zeitler, Mooresville, Ala.; Macy Nancy Hughes, Jacksonville, Fla.;
Mary Marshall, Greenville, S. C.; Jean Stough, Cornelius; Dorothy Watson, Moultrie, Ga.; Nell Abbott, Happy Ga.; Betty Shelnutt, Tryon; Hannah
Steele, Statesville; Gale Johnson, Robin Hood, Jane Wylly, and Jeannie Mitchell, Columbia, S. C.; Lelia Aiken, Ga.; Jimmie Parramore, Madison,
Fla.; Margot Phalen-Gray, West Palm Beach, Fla.; Lib Lee, Charlotte; Jane Washburn, Shelby; Lib Anderson, and Louise Fant, Rock Hill,
S. C., and Shirley Nalley of Gainesville, Ga.

Phi Delta Theta: Mary Maynard, Le- Sledge, Betty Jean Grewer, Virginia Ryman, Charlotte; Tanta and Catherine West, Asheville; Katie Yorke,
Sarah Ruark, Raleigh; Eleanor Henderson, Hickory; Dotty Hutchinson and Tina Cauchen, Rock Hill, S. C.; Anne Peace, Henderson; Hoolie Roberts
and Billie Hedrik, Salisbury; and Edith Holton, Gastonia.

Pi Kappa Phi: Jean Little, Laura Fleming, Charlotte; Mary Lib Moore, Greensboro; Sara Elizabeth DuRand, Newton, Iowa; Sarah Ruth McDowell,
Pacolet, S. C.; Raith Brooks, Washington, Ga.; Nancy Gillam, Warrenton; Rosemary Alex, Manning, S. C.; May Va.; Forrest Mosby, Mary
Alick Klumpp, Anne Hardison, and Wade Shirley Bluefield, W. Va.

North Carolina is great last year at six out of nine. Duke competition in 1936, but the Devils do not
have the powerful team of the last two seasons.

COWAN LEADS

Ned Iverson, while the frosh last year replaced by Rea Tenney.

Davidson Meats Fit For A King

QUALITY GROCERIES

J. K. HAMPTON Davidson, N. C. PHONE 193

SODA FOUNTAIN ... CANDIES ... WHITE DRUG STORE PRESCRIPTIONS FILLED BY EFFICIENT AND EXPERIENCED PHARMACISTS STATIONERY

Every smoker remembers with pleasure the day he found out about Chesterfields. Chesterfields give you a different kind of smoking
pleasure... taste that’s more satisfying, aroma that’s more appetizing. Mild ripe tobaccos and pure cigarette paper, these Chesterfield ingredients are
the best a cigarette can have. Chesterfields SATISFY

Copyright 1938, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.

FRIDAY—FEB. 18— “International Settlement”

MON.-TUES. FEB. 21-22— “Everybody Sing”

WEDNESDAY—FEB. 23— “Patient In Room 18”

DAVIDSON THEATRE
