Discuss at Penn
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 27, 1938

Pegram Beats Duke Favorite | Cat Star Upsets Dupree, Duke | No. 1—Davidson Team
By ELLWOOD MOYER | Finishes Eighth

Cha Pegram, Davidson sophomore, caused the first upset of the Southern Intercollegiate Golf Tournament at Athens, Ga., by defeating Bill Dupree, Duke captain and tournament favorite, 2 and 1. Pegram's victory put him into the quarterfinals.

Although the football eleven will not be on a par with the great 1936 machine, the 1938 club will definitely be stronger than the '37 edition. Davidson's junior 1937-38 basketball team should be a strong contender for the Big Five and Southern Conference titles.

The 1938 tournament was won by Jimmy Barnes, 22-year-old Georgia Tech senior and captain, who triumphed over Bert McDowell, Louisiana State, on the 21st green. Barnes eliminated Paul Leslie, Louisiana State, the medalist, in the semifinal round Friday. McDowell, the defending champion, had won the title the previous year.

Important Clash

The most important event on the athletic program this week is the all-important clash between the Davidson netmen and the North Carolina netters, who last season claimed the national title. Victors in 11 of their 12 starts this season, the Wildcats feel they have a better than average chance of upsetting the Tar Heels Wednesday afternoon at Chapel Hill.

Coach Flake's team will leave Wednesday afternoon, with Captain Maples leading his team throughout the season. Maples' fine performance with a dazzling par 70 was the first time this year that a Davidson linksman has achieved such a feat.

Interclass softball got underway yesterday, with the Juniors soundly beaten by the Red Elephants, who were defeated 13 1-2 to 3 1-2. The score was 11 to 5 after the last out was made on the intramural field beside Chambers in the Sophomore-Junior game. The Sophs got off to an early lead which they held to the finish. Johnny Vice pitched a good game for the Juniors as did Schabel for the Sophs, but the winners backed up their pitcher better and hit in the pinches.

Hand Shines On State Trip

Fighting Tubby Hand gets this week's nomination for someone's hall of fame. Against the Wofford Terriers last Thursday, the Davidson centerfielder went to bat 7 times, scored 5 times, and was left stranded on second the other two times. And the 'Cats went to bat in but eight frames as they scored their 23-0 victory, which, as far as could be learned, is the first time Davidson has ever hit the 20-run margin.

Bailey Williams Enters In Golf Meet; Relays Cat Captain

Bailey Williams, one of Davidson's best all-around athletes, will leave tomorrow to represent Davidson in the Penn Relays, one of the biggest eastern invitational meets. The Relays are to be held Friday and Saturday and will attract, as always, a brilliant collegiate field. A feature of the meet is to be a special mile run between Cunningham and Venzke, famous distance rivals. The former football captain is conceded a good chance to win the discus throw. His official toss of 146 feet against Virginia last Saturday is only 2 feet 2 inches short of the throw that won the Relays last year. The husky field star tossed the disc 148 feet 10 inches on a later try against Virginia, but fouled by stepping out of the ring. The repetition of such a toss should win the event.

Lose Meet To Virginia Team

Fuller, Va. Hurdler, Breaks Stadium Record For High Hurdles

A well-balanced University of Virginia team invaded Davidson on Saturday to win over the Wildcats by the score of 83 1-3 to 42 2-3, in a meet that featured the breaking of the Field record for the high hurdles by Fuller, of Virginia. Williams, weight man, broke his own school record for discus by hurling it 140 feet.

Hopkins Wins Dashes

Hopkins won both of the dash events, the 100 and 220. Wheeler of Virginia nosed out McAlpine and Walker of Davidson in a blanket finish.

Summary

Mile—Markham (V) first, Wheeler (V) second, McAlpine (D) third; time 4:35.4.
100—Hopkins (V) first, Banta (V) second, Dayton (V) third; time 9.9.
High Hurdles—Fuller (V) first, Peyton (V) second, Barrow (D) third; time 14.6.
880—Goodall (V) first, Hickman (D) second, Markham (V) third; time 2:03.1.
220—Hopkins (V) first, Banta (V) second, Barrow (D) third; time 21.6.
Two Miles—Woodward (D) first, Holm (V) second, Telford (D) third; time 10:20.
Low Hurdles—Fuller (V) first, Barrow (D) second, Hawley (V) third; time 26 flat.
Pole Vault—Preston (V) and Lee (V) tie for first, Port (D) third; height 11 feet 6 inches.
Shot—Bryant (V) first, Crisp (D) second, Warden (D) third; distance 43 feet 1 inch.
High Jump—Dayton (V) first, Gordon (V), Cowan (D), and Black (D) tie for second; height 5 feet 10 inches.
Javelin—Johnson (D) first, Dinwiddie (V) second, Jones (V) third; distance 177 feet 10 inches.
Discus—Williams (D) first; Iverson (D) second, Bryant (V) third; distance 146 feet.

Davidson Sports

Tubby Hand is one of Davidson’s steadiest outfielders and is plenty potent with the willow. This is Tubby’s second year on the varsity. He throws miles.140 feet. Broad jump—Lowrance (V) first, Boyd (D) second, Gordon (V) third; distance 22 feet 6 inches.

Pikas Repeat In Volleyball Win Frat Crown For Second Straight Year

The Pika volleyball team annexed the crown for the second straight year as they defeated the Kappa Sigs on Tuesday, April 19, in a three-game match. The SPE’s pulled up into a tie for second with the Phi Gams when they beat them in a three-game meet. The losers took the first game but dropped the next two. Fourth position went to the Kappa Sigs as a result of their loss to the Pikas. Their season's record was five won and three lost. The SAE’s whipped the Phi Delts to take over fifth place and send the losers into a tie for sixth place with the KA’s who trounced the last-place Pi Kappa Phi’s 21-11, 21-9. The KA's record was three won and five lost. The Betas still held eighth place in the standings. The Pi Kappa Phi's lost eight and did not win any, which left them in the cellar for the season.

Freshmen Win Over Orphans

Davidson's kitten trackmen edged out a fighting Barium Springs team by a score of 65-52 in a meet held here last Saturday. The future ‘Cats took first places in the mile run, 440, 100, high hurdles, 880, 220, and the shot put, while the Orphans were able to get firsts in the low hurdles, pole-vault, javelin, discus, and broad jump. Schiltz and Farmer tied for first in the high jump with the height of 5 feet, 6 inches. Nick Schiltz led the kittens with a total of 19 points, while Spencer of Barium overshadowed him with 22 markers. Jack White contributed ten points to the Kitten cause with firsts in the 100 and 220 dashes. The Orphans took all three places in the broad jump, with Spencer, Shannon, and Mills finishing in that order.

Horse-Shoes

The fraternity horseshoe tournament got underway on Monday when four games were played. Jim Wilson and Ken Lawson of the Pi Kappa Phi's won over Frank Harrison and Johnny McQueen, playing for the Kappa Sigs. Yates Nick Nicholson showed good form in winning over Faison and Charley Pegram.

Licks Duke Captain at Meet

Wildcat Baseballers Swamp Wofford As Hand Leads Batting

Cats Defeat Terriers, 23-0 Behind Seven-Hit Pitching of J. D. Hicks — Star Centerfielder Bats Seven For Seven, Drives in Eight Runs

The Davidson baseball team swamped the Wofford nine under a deluge of hits last Thursday to win 23 to 0. J. D. Hicks, Wildcat righthander, allowed the Terriers only seven hits, with three hits scattered and three hits caught at bat. Captain Kellan played a beautiful game and batted two for five. Tubby Hand, Wildcat star centerfielder, was the star of the fray. In seven trips to the plate, the diminutive star hit three doubles and a single, got two walks, and reached first on an error. He drove in eight runs, scoring five times himself. His work in the field also was excellent. Hicks fanned five batters, while the losing pitchers, Hendrix and Clark, struck out only one. The big Wildcat hurler was not relieved but pitched all nine innings. Wofford's pitchers walked sixteen men.

Freshmen Win Twice On Trip

The freshman golf team returned Saturday from their spring tour of the Carolinas with a record of two wins and three losses to their credit. Five men made the trip during which the team played matches with High Point High, Wake Forest, North Carolina Frosh, and Raleigh High. Granville Sharpe played at the number one spot, Jack Abels was number two, Charley Marshall was number three, and Joe Brinson handled the fourth position. High Point High fell to the Kitten linksmen to a score of 9 1-2 to 8 1-2 on Monday. Sharpe and Abels took 8 1-2 points between them, while Brinson got one tally. Tuesday the team met Wake Forest yearlings, but this time the previous day's score was reversed and they lost 8 1-2 to 9 1-2. Again Sharpe and Abels had the most points. The frosh lost again on Wednesday to Carolina Frosh by a 13-5 verdict. Brinson had the most Kitten points. Revenge was reaped on Wake Forest on Thursday when they fell by a 15 1-2 to 5 1-2 margin. Sharpe, Abels, and Brinson each took three points from their rivals. Five-man teams played in this match. The last match of the trip was played Friday against Raleigh High School. The frosh had their worst day of the entire tour and were smothered 16-2. Abels made 1 1-2 of these points.

All-Frat Team

The all-star fraternity volleyball team was released this week by “Footsie” Cowan and Junior Alcorn and is as follows:

First Team
Durham — Pikas
Roper — Pikas
Parker — Pikas
Parler — Phi Gams
Tice — SPE's
McQueen — Kappa Sigs

Second Team
Schabel — KA's
Jones — Pikas
Marquess — Phi Delts
Shelton — Pikas

Frosh Netmen Beat Wofford

Davidson's freshman tennis team conquered the Wofford freshmen here Tuesday afternoon by the score of 6 to 1, thus raising their total to two wins. Turner, playing number one, lost to Flynn in a tiring three-set match after winning the first one easily. Turner was not playing his usual steady game. Dick Shore, playing number two, defeated Coan after dropping the first set. Miller Sproull licked Shuler in straight sets after being behind 0-4 in the first set. Bumbarger played his usual steady game to beat Fort in straight sets. Bob Eller downed English with very little trouble. In the doubles, Turner and Shore defeated Coan and Shuler in the longest match of the day. Losing the first set 6-1 and being behind 2-5 in the second, they forged into the lead and won the match. Sproull and Eller beat Flynn and Fort in a three-set match after dropping the first set 6-1 also.

Results: Singles—Flynn over Turner (D) 1-6, 6-3, 6-3, Shore (D) over Coan 2-6, 6-2, 6-0, Sproull (D) over Shuler 6-4, 6-2, Bumbarger (D) over Fort 6-3, 7-5, Eller (D) over English 6-3, 6-1. Doubles—Turner and Shore (D) licked Coan and Shuler 1-6, 8-6, 6-4. Sproull and Eller (D) licked Flynn and Fort 6-1, 6-4.

St. Paul, Minn., courts and charitable institutions will serve as the laboratory for College of St. Thomas sociology students.

Syracuse University has a new course for those who fail.

Thanks a lot for the opportunity of trying to give you a column, Tony.