Wednesday, December 7th, 1938
THE DAVIDSONIAN
Page Three

War Waged On Disease Of Leprosy
Biederwolf Colony Helps Korean Lepers To Regain Human Status

In far away Korea, there are seven hundred and thirty lepers in the Biederwolf Leper Colony and many more waiting outside the Colony gates hoping and praying that they may be admitted someday soon. The first symptom of the horrible disease is falling hair. Eyebrows come out and brand the person as a leper. Many of them paint eyebrows on their foreheads in order to keep their normal appearance as long as possible. There are two kinds of leprosy, naduler, which is skin leprosy, and paralysis, or anaesthesia, which attacks and deadens the nerves of a person afflicted with it. The latter type of leprosy causes the cracking of the skin and often gangrene sets in on the nose, feet, and hands which gradually rot off. These lepers have no feeling in the infected parts even though they are left wide open.

Dr. R. M. Wilson, head of the Leper Colony, once saw a leper afflicted with this type of leprosy sitting by the side of the road sewing up a very raw and morbid-looking crack in his foot with a needle and thread, and the man could feel no pain. The Koreans have hardly any ideas as to how to cure leprosy. Those who contract the disease are treated worse than animals by their fellow man. The only way possible for them to live is by begging passersby to give a dead dog a mite, for that's what they’re commonly called. Superstition plays a large part in what the Koreans think is a cure for the dreaded disease. It is believed by some of them that eating human flesh is a cure, and one beggar is known to have sold her three-year-old child to a group of traveling lepers who boiled the child and ate it. Another superstition about the cure for leprosy is that gold dust will cure it if eaten every day.

{Continued on Page Six}

D.C. Glee Club Gives Concert
Glee Club and Orchestra Present Service In Charlotte

The Davidson Glee Club, in conjunction with the Davidson Little Symphony Orchestra, presented last Sunday night at the First Presbyterian Church of Charlotte a program of religious music. Starting the service, the orchestra under the direction of James Christian Pfohl played Prelude, by Glazounoff. Directed by Thane MacDonald, the Glee Club gave the call to worship, singing “Bless the Lord, O My Soul,” by Ippolitoff-Ivanoff. Reverend A. S. Johnson, pastor of the church, gave the invocation, and the congregation rose with the singing of “Holy, Holy, Holy.” Next, the Glee Club gave their rendition of “The Old Rugged Cross,” an ancient English hymn by Bennard. Dr. Johnson next read the scripture and gave the evening prayer. For the offertory, the orchestra played Rubenstein’s “Melody In F,” the Glee Club singing as a response, “We Give Thee But Thine Own,” the music of which was written by Mr. MacDonald. “Dear Lord and Father of Mankind” was the second hymn, after which Dr. Johnson gave a short meditation, talking on the value of being a Christian. The orchestra next gave “Andante” by Brahms, and the Glee Club gave its fourth number, singing “The Creation” by Richter. The hymn “God of Our Fathers” followed this, and Dr. Johnson pronounced the benediction, after which a moment of silent prayer was held. The Glee Club sang the choral amen, a response by Mr. MacDonald, which concluded the service.

AMONG THE GREEKS

Betas Hold Feed For Kappa Snappas
Brothers Abbott and Squires went home to Charlotte as usual on Saturday night. Brother Steere went home to Asheboro and pledge-brother Rankin went to Mt. Gilead. Brother McKnight and pledge-brother Winn spent the weekend in Winston-Salem. The chapter held its usual Sunday night feed at which honored guests were Henry Hewes Parrish, and the Kappa Snappa fraternity. Brother Gales McClintock brought his three brothers in the bonds of Kappa Snappa—George Richmond, Benny Johnson, and Hayseed Thomas—to the feed. Brother Louis Garrou went home to Valdese while Brother Leith Garrou spent Saturday night in Charlotte.

* * *

Pikas Scatter Over North Carolina
President John Reisner visited his uncle in Salisbury over the weekend, while Brother Casey Jones took in the Hi-Y convention in Greensboro. Brothers Paul Lady, Bub Coltrane, Vernon Youngblood, and pledge-brother Hoover journeyed to Concord for the weekend. Brother John Scott went to Statesville along with pledge-brothers Crutchfield, Funkhouser, and Scott. The majority of the brothers stayed on the campus for the past week and several spent Saturday night in Charlotte.

* * *

K. A.’s Have Sunday Night Feed
Brother Sam Spencer spent the weekend in Charlotte with Brother David Sprunt. Brother Richard Taylor went to Winston-Salem and Greensboro for the weekend, while Brothers Mason Wallace and Bob Abels went to Greensboro and W. C. on Saturday night. Mason Wallace's cousin from Charlotte, Miss McFayden, was the guest of the chapter at dinner Sunday evening. A feed was held after dinner at which Brothers Bob Abels, ’38, and Sandy Moffett, ’36, were present. Pledge brother Bob Rock is in the infirmary with influenza.

* * *

Kappa Sigs Scatter to Various Points
Brother Pittman spent the weekend at home in Fayetteville and Pinehurst, while Brother Jonas was off to Spartanburg, Greenville, and points south. Brother Scott Ross went to Winston-Salem, Brothers Sam Newell and Tom Perrin went to Columbia, S. C., to a Damas dance as the guests of Brother White. Brother Hudson spent Sunday in Charlotte with the Harrisons, as usual, and Brother Hipp was also in Charlotte visiting his mother. Brother Harry Zarnhardt and pledge-brother Carpenter journeyed to Gaffney, S. C. Brother Hudson is temporarily confined to the infirmary with influenza.

* * *

Pi Kaps Have Hay-Ride At River
The chapter held a hay-ride Saturday night at the home of Miss Ann Jones on the Catawba river. Among those present were Misses Ann Francis, Sally Mauldin, Caroline Cauble, and Sally McDowell of Charlotte; Misses Alice Withers, Martha Withers, Helen Cumnock, and Helen Copeland of Davidson; and Misses Mirle Ruth Archer, Mary Emily Yvonne Williams, Nancy Annie May Brown, Dot Brannon, and Nancy Lee Saynor. Brother Bill Ward and Pledges Garvey, Broksie Folger, Fetner, Efird, Frazier, and Linville were in an automobile wreck near Concord Saturday night. Ward is still confined to the infirmary but will be out soon. Pledge Larkin went to Greensboro and W. C. for the weekend. Major and Mrs. Ballard were chaperones for the hay-ride.

* * *

S. A. E’s. Travel and Hold Hay-Ride
Brothers Hank Bahnson, Charlie Smith, and George Ficklen spent the weekend in Greenville. Brothers Lem Kornegay, Hector MacLean, Mark Cauble, John Latimer, and Poss McLean spent Sunday in Winston-Salem. Members of the Pledge Class entertained the following young ladies from Charlotte on a hay-ride and weiner roast on the Catawba river Saturday evening: Misses Dutty Jones, Sophie Walker, Annie Mae Vashti Gonto, Ann Wiley, Peggy Dunnaway, Rita Clairy, Caroline Miller, Margaret Chandler, Delice Young, Aileen Long, Lee Sandridge, Charlotte Martin, Mary Marshall Jones, Margaret Anderson, Lucy Jordan, Jackie Burns, and Geaffrey Brown.

* * *

Phi Gams Journey To Virginia
Brothers Throop and Liipfert went to Randolph-Macon in Lynchburg, Va., for the weekend, while Brothers Darby and Taylor attended the Young People’s Work in The Christian Laymen conference.

* * *

Officials Attend Annual “D” Club Banquet
The “D” club held its annual football banquet Tuesday evening, December 1st, in the banquet hall of Chambers. The principal speaker of the evening was Coach Wallace Wade, whose Duke Blue Devils chalked up an unbeaten, untied, and unscored-upon season this fall. Left to right are: President J. D. Hicks, Coach Gene McEver, Dr. W. L. Lingle, and Captain Dave Warden. Wade, in his address, highly praised athletics and Coach Gene McEver at Davidson. Alumni Secretary Conrad Fredrick Smith was master of ceremonies at the banquet, and J. D. Hicks, president of the “D” Club, presided. Other speakers were President Walter L. Lingle, Captain Dave Warden, and “Colonel” Jake Houston of the Charlotte Observer.

—(Photo Courtesy of Charlotte News)

Dr. Vowles Will Be Host To Life Fellowship Group

Physics Frat Initiated Here
Sigma Pi Sigma Celebrates Founding In 1921 On Davidson Campus

Sigma Pi Sigma, national physics society, celebrates its founding on the Davidson campus this week. On December 11, 1921, Dr. J. M. Douglas, Prof. J. L. Douglas, and Prof. W. W. Wood, all of the Davidson faculty, and six Davidson students founded the society. In 1924, it became a national organization when a Beta chapter was started at Duke University.State University has the third chapter. After this, chapters were installed at the University of Washington, the University of Colorado, and the University of the Philippines. There are now 32 active chapters in the United States in such places as Purdue University, University of Pittsburgh, and University of Chicago. Some of the honorary members are A. H. Compton, of the University of Chicago, K. T. Compton, president of Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Dr. W. H. G. Swann of the Bartol Research Foundation, and Dr. F. K. Richtmyer of Cornell. Sigma Pi Sigma is now one of the associated societies of the American Association for the Advancement of Science. At the semi-annual meeting of this association, a Sigma Pi Sigma meeting is held. The national secretaries to date have been Dr. R. W. Graves, of the Duke University Medical School, Prof. H. E. Fulcher of Davidson, and Dr. Marsh White who is now secretary. The society offers a national fellowship.

Wade Lauds Davidson At 'D' Banquet
Famous Coach Reminisces On His Previous Rose Bowl Experience

Wade, mentor of an untied and unbeaten Duke eleven, praised Davidson College in the Banquet Hall of Chambers Building last Thursday evening. "I'm not certain," he said, "that there is a college or university in America which has a more successful athletic program than Davidson. Educational institution athletics should be educational in nature—and when they get beyond that they're getting out of control. Davidson does that job well."

In his talk about his previous Rose Bowl experiences, he reminisced about his first trip as a member of the Brown team which played in the first classic of the modern series. This was in 1916. Thrice since then, he has taken teams out there and has never returned defeated. Once his team was tied. He praised, particularly, the southern teams which have played in this West Coast classic in past years. This speech was the climax to an evening of eating, speech-making, and frolics. Immediately following the banquet, Fred Smith, Davidson Alumni Secretary, read telegrams from President Roosevelt, Adolf Hitler, and Benito Mussolini. All of these expressed the regrets of the senders that they could not attend the banquet. 

The main feature of the Pi Gamma Mu Program, held last Friday night at 7 o'clock in Dr. Gwynn's classroom, was a talk on "The Present Situation in China" given by Archer Torrey. This talk was followed by a lengthy discussion. 

Three student speakers are on the program: Rod Williams, Sherrard Rice, and Shaw Smith. Rod, who is President of the Young People's Assembly of the Presbyterian Church, is the principal speaker of the evening. He is to give an explanatory talk on Young People's work in the church. Sherrard Rice, President of the Virginia Synod of Young People, is to give the second talk on "Summer Conferences." The third speech is to be made by Shaw Smith, who will discuss "Social Planning," and the meeting was adjourned.

The Life Fellowship Group is very anxious to obtain as a speaker for some meeting in the future a missionary who is home on furlough. It is hoped that Darby Fulton, one of the Secretaries of Foreign Missions, will be able to speak at one of the meetings next semester. Also, Dr. Walter Lingle, president of Davidson, said that not only the football players, but also the other athletes, who spend so much time practicing their various games so that Davidson may be well represented in intercollegiate sports, should be commended for their fine spirit throughout the gridiron season.

A change of emphasis on the values of campus life is necessary. High scholarship should rank as the most valuable achievement a student can make. This means that useless organizations and activities ought to be discarded, others revitalized, and campus life reoriented. Norris T. Pritchard, Iowa State Teachers College, calls for a searching study of extra-curricular activities.

You can tell when you're on the right road because it’s upgrade.

THE HIGH SCORE of Last Week Was Set By CHARLIE PEGRAM -- 147

PITCH-PATCH Bowling Alleys
5 & 10c STORE
Davidson, N. C.

DAVIDSON, N. C.
CHRISTMAS - CANDIES & GIFTS
SOUTHERN
DAVIDSON'S, wey
RADIOS
College Pharmacy
"SERVICE DRUG STORE"

(Continued on Page 3)

Drink a Quart of Milk a Day
Drink Pasteurized Milk, It’s Safe
MOORESVILLE CREAMERY
Mooresville, North Carolina

GROCERIES HARDWARE RADIOS
M. H. GOODRUM & CO.

Chez Norton
Le Palais de la Chevelure
GO TO AN ACADEMIC BARBER
(Master of Tonsorial Arts)
NORTON, M.T.A.

Get Your Gifts And Begin Your Holidays
WHITE DRUG CO.
HERE! FREE of Shopping Worries!
DAVIDSON, N. C.
A COMPLETE
Printing
Service as near as your Telephone.
For a representative Dial 3-3727
Garland Court
STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
ESTABLISHED 1907
CHARLOTTE, N. C.