Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN Wednesday, December 7th, 1938

The Davidsonian
Founded By the Class of 1915

1938 Member 1939
Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON Ave. New York, N.Y.
CHICAGO - BOSTON - LOS ANGELES - SAN FRANCISCO

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879.

EDITORIAL STAFF
Terrell Porter - Editor
Jack Abernathy - Editor
Carle Austin - Editor
Sid Holland - Editor
Carl Hudson - Editor
Sam Spencer - Managing Editor
Tom Casali - Sports Editor
Ovid Bell - Associate Editor
Wesley Coghill - Editor
Perry Sloan - Editor
Henry Baker - Movie Editor
Walt Kunz - Staff Photographer

BUSINESS STAFF
B. B. Plyler - Business Manager
Jim Currie - Advertising Manager
Jim Ross - Advertising Manager
Julian Lokey - Circulation Manager
Juli Hackney - Circulation Manager
Bud Gilmore - Collection Manager

Editorial Dilemma

In every college, there is always some sort of dissension between the administrative department and the student body. The cause
of the trouble usually arises from the attitude of the students themselves. They can see only their side of the
problem; they feel that they are getting a raw deal in many respects and would honestly like to know the
reasons for some of the restrictions placed upon them. In referring to the students in this manner, we do not
imply that the student body as a whole has this attitude. Perhaps it is not even the majority. But the
minority which does complain and harangue does so with such verbosity and emphasis that it seems to be the expression
of more than merely a few. Yet that minority is often justified in expressing its opinion.

It is unfortunate that in a college paper only the opinions of the students are expressed. A solution to this
would be to print the views of both students and administration on any controversial question—a nice little theory. We would
be only too glad to publish an editorial or letter from a faculty member explaining why the Executive Committee or
some other such body has laid down certain rules and are sure that the students would read them gladly. Professors
and administration play a big part in the student’s life and it seems to us that a paper representative of
the college should recognize the fact. However, we have yet to see one that does. It is indeed an editorial
dilemma. The faculty advises cutting student criticism to a minimum; the students feel that unless their opinions are fully expressed,
they are being deprived of their rights on their own paper. The editor has to take a stand somewhere between
these two points of view. We don’t like to feel that we are merely “stooges.” We don’t want to be
biased in giving only one side of a problem. “Editorial dilemma” is right!

Background

We recently read a statement made by a famous feature writer to a group of journalism students that might well
have been made to any college student. The statement was this, “You must have background.” Development along any line is
impossible without background. A college student who lacks it will never get ahead. He will always be cramped and perhaps
haunted by his failure to have acquired such information as he finds he needs. It is never too late to
do this, but the sooner the better. Two or three years can be a big handicap. It is universally admitted
that one of the greatest faults of educational institutions today lies, not in the lack of available background, but in
the failure to present this material in such a manner as to impress the student with his need to know
it. The facts are almost useless when presented for the sake of fact. They must be made applicable to students.
College may be a four-year house-party, but has anyone ever gone on a house-party without at least a toothbrush and
a clean shirt? People do, however, try to go to college without a textbook and an attentive mind. If you
really want to make a good house-party out of it, go to the movies, listen to radio programs, use the
libraries, read the best magazines. But have a purpose; not a specific purpose, but an all-inclusive purpose, the fulfillment of
which must precede special development in any field—the acquisition of a good background.

Supreme Court

Special rule No. 1 from the student regulations reads as follows: “Students are not permitted to keep or use automobiles,
or motorcycles save when they are used by those residing nearby to attend College daily, or by other students only
over weekends, and then only when cars are listed in the Dean’s office.” Obviously, by this rule students are not
allowed to use their cars during the week. It also seems clear that they are allowed to use them over
the weekend if the cars are listed in the Dean’s office. If this be so, then why are the students
not allowed to use their cars over the weekend if they have filled the requirements? If there were a Supreme
Court to appeal to for the students, the restricting of automobiles as it is now done on teen except dance
weekends would undoubtedly be declared unconstitutional. But we have no Supreme Court to appeal to, or if there is one,
it has been kept hidden. All that we, the students, can do is request some explanation of the present distorted
interpretation of this regulation. If there is any doubt that this rule has been quoted correctly, then turn to page
nine of the Rules and Regulations and read for yourselves.

STUART R. OGLESBY.

From Campus To Campus

Hamilton, N. Y.—(ACP)—Additional evidence that the tutorial system is of great aid to today’s undergraduates has been released by Colgate
University officials here. After five years of using the system, Colgate records show that the student malcontent who is unable
to adjust himself to his environment has been virtually eliminated. “One great result of individual treatment has been a marked
decrease in personality problems on the campus,” one faculty leader stated. The medical department revealed that the number of nervous
breakdown cases per year has been reduced from five to one. Under the Colgate system, individualization is brought to mass
education. Besides conferences regarding classroom work, preceptors and tutors discuss the students’ personal problems.

Baltimore, Md.—(ACP)—Poetry and cartoons have broken into the educational scheme of things at Johns Hopkins University here. Going educators who
use movies, drawings, and lectures as models to make his classes more interesting and more effective, Robert William Hegner, medical
zoologist, uses poems and cartoons. As an example of this new educational aid, Dr. Hegner points to his cartoon of
a girl in a bathtub singing, “I Ain’t Got No Body.” The refrain and the only cartoon made up of
dots illustrate the number of parasites in a human being.

State College, Miss.—(ACP)—That musical ditty of “sleeping in the kitchen with his feet in the hall” became a reality on
the Mississippi State College campus here recently. Prepared for the worst after the recent radio hoax describing an attack from
Mars, State students took to cover when a 12-foot giant appeared on the campus. College officials, as morbidly curious as
were students frightened, investigated the story of two students who claimed that a giant passed their second-story window several times.
Here’s the joke: Sherwood Young, engineering sophomore, is a past master at stilt-walking. Adding to the spectacle is the fact
that he has a pair of pants long enough to completely hide his stilts.

Bloomington, Ind.—(ACP)—Alvin N. “Bo” McMillan, Indiana University’s gridiron mentor, has started a tempest in the stadium bowl. Bo has proposed
that football teams be quarterbacked by the coaches who train them, with the mentor running on to the field before
each scrimmage to select the next play for the team. He advocates the change so that “a mature man and
not a boy” will be responsible for the team’s play. Coaches all over the country are arguing the pros and
cons of the proposal, but Wisconsin’s Harry Stuhldreher sums it up with the statement that the plan “must be backed
by coaches who have had tough luck with their quarterbacks.”

Minute Philosophy
By MONROE BUSH, JR.

“I am the light of the world; he that followeth me shall not walk in darkness, but shall have the
light of life.”—Jesus Christ.

“The essence of knowledge is, having it, to apply it; not having it, to confess your ignorance.”—Confucius.

“The broad-minded seeth truth in different religions; the narrow-minded see only their difference.”—Chinese Proverb.

“Broad ideas hated by narrow ideas—this is the very struggle of progress.”—Hugo.

“As we get better we meet better people.”—Elbert Hubbard.

CAMPUS IN CARTOON

SUPER SNOOPINGS

HORACE MANN IS CALLED THE FATHER OF PUBLIC EDUCATION. HE FOUNDED THE FIRST STATE NORMAL SCHOOL IN AMERICA!

O.A.C.P. JOHN WICKHAM, UNIV. OF USA ATHLETE, WEARS SIZE 17½ SHOES! HE USUALLY STARTS PRACTICE LATE AS HE HAS TO
WAIT FOR HIS SPECIALLY MADE SHOES TO ARRIVE.

Letters

WOULD CHANGE TIME OF VESPERS

Dear Bill:

Every Sunday afternoon from six to six-thirty several of the Davidson student body engage in a grim race against time.
We nail-biters and hair-pullers are the unfortunate students who have been off the campus for the weekend and have waited
to catch the north or southbound buses which theoretically arrive here at 6:04 and 6:11 P.M. This would give us
time to get a snack and easily make the 6:30 deadline at Vespers. But—when the clock points to 6:25 and
we have only reached Huntersville or the outskirts of Mooresville, we begin to despair of making Vespers on time! We
know the organist, just as sure as death and tuition, will strike the opening chords of the prelude the split-second
those clock hands reach 6:30 on the dial. When we finally reach Davidson, we race madly across the campus tugging
our heavy suitcase, run up the stairs puffing and blowing, only to find that our dash has been in vain
and that the service is well underway. We disturb the audience in the rear with necessary commotion, and while thinking
several irreligious thoughts we flop into a seat and spend the rest of the service trying to get our breath,
entirely oblivious to the sermon. The consequences to such an experience are not limited to heart strain and nervous prostration,
but the college adds the crowning blow of a third of a cut for being tardy and a whole one
if the sermon has begun.

Now the moral to my story is not that church should be abolished. I am pleading only that something be
done to ease the tension on us Sunday travelers. Why don’t we catch an earlier bus? The answer is simply
that the only other Greyhounds in the afternoon arrive in Davidson between three and three-thirty o’clock. This means starting back
to college on Sunday morning or in the very early afternoon, denying us the pleasure of dinner with our family
or the chance to see the object of our trip again Sunday afternoon. There are two courses of action for
the remedy of this situation. Either change the Greyhound schedule or postpone the Sunday evening services to 7:00 or at
least 6:45. Wedo not know which would be hardest to do, but we would like to hear the school’s opinion
on the question. Before we sign off, we would remind the students that after a big Sunday dinner at 12:30
and no exercise during the afternoon one isn't very hungry at 5:30 but usually gets a bottomless pit in his
stomach around 10:00 in the evening. A more normal evening meal hour would certainly save the students’ money and would
give the boarding houses a longer Sunday afternoon. Yours truly, L. W.

* * *

“NEW GYM”

Dear Bill:

I feel that I speak for practically the entire student body, for most of the alumni, and a majority of
the faculty, when I express the sincere hope that the next building constructed on the Davidson College campus will be
a new gymnasium. Not for the purpose of further emphasizing athletics, but because it is unfair to the seven hundred
students registered here and to the ones who will register here to be forced to confine their winter exercise periods
to the present gymnasium.

In the first place, the space which the present Alumni Gym affords is far overtaxed by the organized teams which
it must house. The intramural program must shift as best it can from periods immediately after dinner to periods immediately
after supper; it being a well-known fact that exercise after meals like this is very injurious to health. In the
second place, the freshman team has to practice at night, simply because there is no other time. This takes away
their regular study period, which, try as they might, they cannot compensate in the afternoon; and generally breaks down the
purposes for which the college was created.

In the third place, those who are not yet varsity material have no place to develop. It is a well-known
fact that basketball players must be good when they report to Davidson or not stand a chance of making the
team. In the fourth place, the gymnasium is completely outmoded; the floor is dead at numerous places, and is not
level (this can be demonstrated by placing a ball on the floor and watching it roll to the lowest place).
In the fifth place, the gymnasium is a source of embarrassment to those of us who love Davidson. Our rivals
laugh at it, and those members of high and junior college teams who visit Davidson and are naturally attracted to
the college shy away because of it. There are other reasons too numerous to mention here, holding true for all
sports housed there.

Surely, there cannot be a more pressing need at Davidson. Please consider the wishes of those whom the college serves
and those who serve the college, first. We are anxious for the day when all the proposed improvements are carried
out, but none do we long for more than that great day when Davidson cheerleaders can announce the pep meeting
in the “new gym” and really mean new.

—R.H.W.

* * *

ON, BLUE DEVILS

Dear Bill:

Rose Bowl bound Duke’s Coach Wallace Wade topped off the “D” Club banquet last Wednesday night with a masterful address
which he very ably presented under the camouflage of a one-sided bull session. We here at Davidson had heard not
only of the high achievements of this man in the realm of America’s most popular collegiate sport, but of his
extreme modesty about it all and this was certainly verified.

Coach Wade, in his preliminary remarks, stated that he was not and had never tried to be a public speaker,
but members of his audience were ready in five minutes not only to doubt that statement, but to contradict it.
It is safe to say that even the coaches and sportswriters present had never heard so much concentrated football told
in such an instructive and down-to-earth manner. His reminiscences about past experiences at Pasadena were naturally quite interesting, especially since
Coach Wade is taking his 1938 edition of Duke Blue Devils to the west coast in a few weeks for
the big classic.

A few of the California columnists have criticized the selection of Duke and some have even gone so far as
to say that they had just as soon see Smith College or Vassar as the East's representative. Of course, Coach
Wade would not commit himself, but there was something in the tone of his voice that leads us to believe
that those particular scribblers may have to “eat them words.” And most of us here at Davidson think they will,
despite the fact that U.S.C. trounced Notre Dame. Congratulations, “Big Blue,” and the best of luck!

Congratulations are also in order for Fred Smith and the others responsible for putting on such an enjoyable banquet, and
for getting up such an excellent program. Colin Smith, Pete Marchant, and Toni Casali were there as the Marx brothers,
the varsity quartet sang, the impromptu speeches were good, Dr. Lingle said some appropriate words, and Dave Warden made a
nice talk. It was all good, including the hog-calling which blasted the rafters. So the best of everything to the
“D” Club. Those boys deserve a lot of credit.

J. HARPER BEALL.

* * *

By KEN LAWSON

GUEST COLUMNIST, OVID BELL

Have you ever written a column? I must confess that I haven't, and I am hoping that you will suffer
my scribblings in noble silence. Ken Lawson, your regular “super snooping” correspondent, is in the Infirmary with influenza, and here
I am pinch-hitting for him in spite of violent protests on my part to the calm, persuasive statement by Editor
Marquess that I was to be his “guest columnist.”

The first impulse of a “great columnist” is to make all those nasty “digs” he has been saving and planning
to draw from his bag of tricks for a long time, and so I dug down to bring out some
of the choicer ones. I dusted them off carefully, but, alas, something told me that Bill would censor them before
I got started. Now into the waste basket they go, after being cherished for so long.

In the Queen City: The lads made their exodus Saturday, and most of them could be found in their usual
haunts that night. For instance, I stopped at The Tavern, seeking shelter from sodden skies outside, to find several grads
and lads gathered about and pursuing their favorite pastime of taking life easy. Right in the middle of one of
Charlie Sherman’s tall stories, a dapper Davidson gentleman clad in rakish costume topped off by a corduroy “pork-pie” hat stalked
in to be greeted by the resounding cry, “Two-gun Latimer rides again!”

With my good ear to the ground, I learned that Rea Tenney and Ned Iverson had serious “date trouble” Saturday
night. “Ge-gaggie,” moaned Ned, “I got left.” But Rea returned to the campus, and, try as I may, all I
could get from him was a “no dope.” Shorty Parrish, Royall Branton, and John Purdie, are reported to have sought
an emergency exit from a certain Charlotte apartment house at the sound of a passing fire engine's siren—a case of
mistaken identity, no doubt.

Here and There: Colonel Liipfert returned from Lynchburg with a smile on his lips and a song in his heart
after listening to sweet nothings murmured by the lovely Miss Drennen—despite evidence of a “two-time” act produced on the Charlotte
Observer's society page. Frank Harrison and Gene Vereen were literally bowled over by a comely school-teacher in Salisbury on a
Sabbath evening, but “Crisco” wouldn't tell me a thing because... Shades of blackmail, perhaps? Miller Sproull developed into a sprint
star, so I am told, and left Bobbie Reinhardt on a Davidson doorstep to be confronted by an irate father.
Addison Long was found singing in the showers after patching up with a lovely Salisbury lass. Dame Rumor whispered that
a certain Miss Randolph, Pan-Hellenic President Pittman’s date for the coming dances, hails not from Nashville—as reported to the Observer—but
from Jacksonville. Harper Beall, with the far-away look in his eye that reaches out to Flora MacDonald, dropped in to
bemoan the fact that he is not a Senior.

“Sub-Deb Chatter,” that feature in the Charlotte Observer penned by doll-like Peggy Dunnaway, yielded no worthwhile gossip Sunday, except that
it was her birthday. That sounds more like “helpful hints” than gossip, but, if I'm wrong, I'll have to blame
it on my poor hearing. And I can’t keep from wondering whether her report of the S.A.E. party was supposed
to be prophetic, but perhaps she tore herself away from the festivities to pound out the latest “dope” in the
small hours of the morning.

In the Groove

By TOM PERRIN

CANDY FROM BABY... Verily there must be a choice spot in the hereafter reserved for columnists—life is so very hard
for them in this world. Last week, for example, we were rejoicing inwardly over the beautiful copy this proposed Georgia-Watts
grid classic might be made to yield, when, just before our deadline, one thing was snatched away from us—called off.
Confidentially, though, we've always suspected that some columnist has been behind each of the annual dormitory feuds; certainly they fanned
the flames in high glee.

LET’S DANCE... This weekend, according to usually reliable sources, is to see the second and final dance set of this
fast-waning semester. We might as well pass on the observation that, at least till the memory of this columnist runneth
not to the contrary, it is invariably predicted that this set will flop. And almost as invariably those devotees of
Terpsichore who do go pronounce it the most enjoyable of the year. So you'll probably regret it if you aren’t
there. By the way, if the Pan-Hell plutocrats don’t put out something in the next few days about Midwinters music,
they'll begin to lose our confidence. Still, the current rumor features T. Dorsey, (but never has one favored by Dame
Rumor actually made music for us when the time came). We know a fellow who wouldn't take Duke over McCallie
unless you gave him points, and he says it's Dorsey, even money.

NO DRILL... Simply because it probably won't be recorded by any other earthly news agency, we hereby note the fact
that Monday was the first day this year when the drill board was graced with the gladdest words of tongue
or pen—No Drill Today. Never before, we'll bet, in all recorded military or meteorological history has there been such an
uninterrupted line of incredibly perfect Monday, Wednesday, and Friday afternoons. At last the drought is broken.

SUGGESTIONS... Once there was a man who stepped on a banana peel and hasn’t banana where since... “Why,” asks a
letter from a freshman, “do they call the Annual, ‘Quips 'n Cranks’?” Answer: because it is composed of pictures of
students and faculty. Both of those were good enough for Hal Sugg’s column three long years ago, so they are
good enough for you. Maybe we ought to tell you that we read Sugg in the ’35-36 “Davidsonian” for inspiration.
Even if there’s no inspiration, it’s a very pleasant way to pass the time of the day, Sugg being our
idea of the ideal campus columnist. His lines are old enough, too, to use again in a pinch.

* * *

Energy spent in getting even is better spent in getting ahead.

Repeat orders are more important than one large single order.

The best way to make money is to help others to make money.
