Wednesday, December 7th, 1938
THE DAVIDSONIAN
Page Five

Question of the Week

What do you think of the method used this year by the Y. M. C. A. to raise the Christmas
Gift Fund for the Leper Colony?

As explained in Chapel Monday morning, the Y. M. C. A. this year is placing the emphasis in raising the
money on the spirit in which it is given. There is to be no canvassing or use of the pledge
cards, and no contest will be staged between the dormitories or between the classes as in the past. The “Y”
wishes the donations to come from a spirit of Christian generosity rather than from any other motive.

Shorty Parrish, Sophomore:
I think that it is a fine idea, because of the fact that it will alleviate some men of the
embarrassment of not being able to give as much as their next door neighbor. Also, this method will bring out
the true religious spirit of the College; all the hypocrisy and feigning will be diminished. It will set forth that
quality which makes for a sincere Gift Fund.

Bob Doty, Junior:
The idea sounds very well, but I hardly think that it is as practical as the method used in the
former years. Of course, one likes to think that every man will give because he wants to give and for
no other ulterior motive, but at the same time, common sense says that if he has a little more urging
he would be much more apt to give. If the Y. M. C. A. board wishes to gain its goal,
it would save itself a great deal of trouble by abandoning this idealistic means of achieving it.

Mack Otts, Sophomore:
Contrary to the past methods of contesting between dormitories and between classes, this new plan will bring out a real
giving spirit. Now there will be no “forcing” to give just because the boys on the hall or your roommate
have contributed to this program. Every man will know what he wants to give, and therefore no pecuniary difficulties will
be involved in the spirit of the gift. No one will be under any obligation to give, and the whole
plan should be a great success.

Marshall Houston, Senior:
I think that the spirit of the gift is vitally important, but that more money would be raised by last
year’s method. Nor can I see how the goal that the Y. M. C. A. has set for this fund
can be realized from such a plan. Every student has that spirit that the “Y” wants to bring out by
this plan, but I am dubious as to its outcome. Many students, including myself, will neglect or forget to contribute
unless canvassed. I feel sure that the former plan has been successful, and that there is no logical reason for
abandoning it. The true Christian spirit of charity cannot be instilled by this new method, and cannot be harmed by
the old.

Hunter Marshall, Senior:
This plan, while very idealistic and all that, seems less practical than the one used in former years of canvassing
and contests. More people would be likely to give by this old plan too. I'd be much more likely to
donate if someone were to come around to my room to see me about the campaign and to tell me
about its purpose and its aims rather than to just sit in chapel and hear about it for a few
minutes. I do not feel that the spirit is lessened in any degree by the former plan. The fund would
be larger if canvassers were used, and speaking from a money viewpoint, the other plan is far better. Of course,
if the whole program is to be based entirely on a “spirit of Christian generosity,” then maybe the present plan
as adopted by the Y. M. C. A. board is more suitable.

John Withers, Junior:
The spirit giving idea is a splendid thought on the part of the “Y” cabinet, but I feel that it
would be better to keep the men reminded of the fund and of its object in the former way of
canvassers rather than by seeing the gift boxes in the Student Store and in the lobby.

(Continued on Page Six)

MISS HILDA GRAHAM ROBERTS
PAN-HELLENIC
MISS REBECCA TUCKER

The above girls have been chosen by the Pan-Hellenic Council as sponsors for the forthcoming set of dances:

MISS MAE HOFFMAN
MISS MARTHA ALEXANDER
MISS ELIZABETH MENDENHALL
MISS EVELYN DRENNEN
MISS JACQUELINE RAY

Miss Randolph of Nashville, Tenn., who will lead the figure with Raymond Pittman, Kappa Sigma, president of the Council; Miss
Roberts of Salisbury with Mark Lillard, Phi Delta Theta; Miss Mendenhall of Winston-Salem with Eugene Liipfert, Phi Gamma Delta; Miss
Boyd of Warrenton with Lem Kornegay, Sigma Alpha Epsilon; Miss Hoffman of Charlotte with Eddie Steere, Beta Theta Pi; Miss
Drennen of Birmingham with Bobby Gish, Pi Kappa Phi; Miss Tucker of Charlotte with Tom Mullen, Sigma Phi Epsilon; Miss
Ray of Oxford with Dick Taylor, Kappa Alpha; and Miss Alexander of Charlotte with Add Long, Pi Kappa Alpha.

(Photo Courtesy Charlotte Observer)

Eumenean Society Holds Forum On Jewish Plight

At the regular meeting held on Tuesday evening, December 6, in Eu Hall, the Eumenean Literary Society held an open-forum
discussion on the Jewish situation in Germany and in the other European countries. Members of the Society were instructed to
prepare written or oral reports on some phase of the subject, and these were later given before the group. Various
speakers dealt with the religious, ethical, moral, and social aspects of the situation, basing their comments on material gathered from
the newspapers and from other periodicals such as “Time” and “Life.”

After this topic had been thoroughly covered, a business session was held, and the name of Miss Mildred Sneeden was
proposed and discussed as sponsor for the society. Following the disposal of other regular business, the gathering was dismissed by
President “Boo” Walker.

Victor
Decca
Brunswick
Vocalion
Bluebird
35c-75¢ Each
Any Record Not In Stock Can Be Quickly Secured
PARKER-GARDNER CO.
Phone 8257
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Now in Knox Building
HENDERSON JEWELRY SHOP
WATCH AND JEWELRY REPAIRING
Davidson, N. C.(Continued from Page One) regardless of how far advanced they are. The results of a field trip contest
have been announced. The winners are Waltz Kunz, first award, and Angus Lytch, second award. On this excursion, conducted in
the fields near the college, many unique field scenes and silhouettes of trees were made.

EXPERT BARBER
DAVIS BARBER SHOP
Right by White Drug Co.
DAVIDSON, N. C.
BEST HAIRCUT IN TOWN

DRIVE A CAR THAT IS IN STYLE

SOCIETY HOLDS (Continued from Page One) various members. These speeches will pave the way for the election of the new
officers.

Umbrellas are like alibis; they come out when things are unsettled. A hick town is a place where a fender
retains its virgin shape for at least a month.

Our boss says he just plays golf for the fun of it. Our game isn’t very good either.

The man who makes every minute count often becomes the man of the hour.

FLOWERS
SMITH FLORAL SHOP
ARE ALWAYS SATISFACTORY
RUFUS PLONK
Student Representatives

DAN DAVIDSON
Ice Cream DeLuxe
Mooresville, N. C.
Phone 56

ALWAYS ASK “S & P”
Peanut Butter Sandwiches
Salted Peanuts and Candy
Manufactured by SWINSON FOOD PRODUCTS
Charlotte, North Carolina

M. P. Henderson
DAVIDSON, N. C.
CARS FOR RENT

Unexpected Cancellation Due To Lack of Equipment, Poor Condition of Gridiron

With interest, excitement, and rivalry arising to fever pitch, with temporary bleachers being erected to take care of the capacity
crowd, and with the rival gridiron stalwarts arming themselves to the teeth for the conflict, the annual football classic between
the Watts Tea Hounds and the Georgia Rats for the second straight year was called off. Lack of proper equipment
and failure of the gridiron to be in good condition were given as the official reasons for the cancellation of
the contest. However, staunch supporters of the rival dormitories both claimed that timidity and fear of being beaten on the
part of the other team was the real reason for the withdrawal.

The challenge to renew the annual game was read to the men of Georgia before the entire student body in
chapel. The note, from Watts, follows:

Watts Challenges
“To those suave, stylists, esquires, heart throbs, tripods, socialites, milksops, and assorted and miscellaneous rats who inhabit the crumbling walls
of Georgia, the mighty dauntless stalwart braves of Watts do hereby and forthwith officially fling down the traditional challenge to
resume their annual gridiron classic. Should the aforementioned ‘Rats’ dare to take up this challenge, let them so indicate by
a note of acceptance in chapel on the morrow. However, let the Rats be advised that they accept at their
peril. Watts’ manly heroes were greatly angered by the reprehensible withdrawal of the foe last year.
(Signed) Watts Tea Hounds”

The Georgia Rats quickly replied the next day with this acceptance:

Georgia Retaliates
“To the tottering, toddling, tippling Tea Hounds of Watts who yesterday brewed their tea a bit too strong and foolishly
challenged the sterling stalwarts of Georgia: We snatch up your silly sayings in defiance and accept that challenge if you
have not already repented those rash words and withdrawn them in your rightful fear of mighty Georgia. The die is
cast, and you will meet us on Richardson Field at two o'clock, Saturday afternoon, December 10. We hope that blood
can be thicker than weak tea, and that your trembling gridiron Don Quixotes will not run like many stale cookies.
This is but a warning; for Georgia will give no quarter.”
Georgia Powerhouse

Preparations for the game then went forward at a rapid pace. The (Continued on Page Six)

WEEKLY SCHEDULE
Wednesday—December 7.
5:00 P. M.—Glee Club Rehearsal.
6:45 P. M.—Journalism class.
6:45 P. M.—Photographic Club.
7:00 P. M.—Scabbard and Blade meeting.
8:00 P. M.—Alpha Psi Omega and Red and Black Masquers.
9:00 P. M.—Y. M. C. A. Cabinet meeting.
9:15 P. M.—Numeral Club.

Thursday—December 8.
6:45 P. M.—Social fraternities.
9:00 P. M.—Beaver Club.
10:30 P. M.—Student Prayer Meeting.

Friday—December 9.
5:00 P. M.—Glee Club Rehearsal.
8:00 P. M.—Alpha Epsilon Delta.
7:15 P. M.—Freshmen Basketball game.

Sunday—December 11.
10:15 A. M.—Sunday School.
11:15 A. M.—Church Christmas Vespers.

Monday—December 12.
5:00 P. M.—Glee Club Rehearsal.
7:00 P. M.—“D” Club.
8:00 P. M.—Delta Phi Alpha.
9:00 P. M.—Eta Sigma Phi.

Tuesday—December 13.
7:00 P. M.—Philanthropic and Eumenean Literary Societies.
8:00 P. M.—Le Cercle Francais.
9:00 P. M.—Sigma Epsilon.
10:30 P. M.—Student Prayer Meetings.

NO CAPTAIN
Rumor has it that there will be no permanent football captain of the 1939 edition of the Davidson Wildcats. Dave
Warden was captain during the 1938 season. The election of the captain is usually held at the annual “D” Club
banquet, but at that time no one was chosen to succeed Warden. In the event that no one is elected
before next fall, it is probable that a different captain will be chosen for each game, thus giving more men
a chance at this honor.

How to Ease a Cold
FIRST—massage throat, chest, and back with Vicks VapoRub at bedtime. This relieves the distress.
THEN—to make its long-continued action last even longer, spread a thick layer of VapoRub on the chest and cover with
a warmed cloth. LONG AFTER sleep comes, VapoRub keeps working—loosens phlegm—eases muscular soreness or tightness—clears air-passages—eases coughing—relieves local congestion. Often,
by morning the worst of the cold is over.

Cold Weather Is Here To Stay!
A GOOD SUPPLY OF COAL AND OIL
Don’t Fail to Get
DAVIDSON ICE & FUEL CO.

DAVIDSON THEATRE
Davidson, N. C.
Wed., Dec. 7th.
Peck’s BAD BOY At The Circus
Thurs. & Fri., Dec. 8-9th.
ALEXANDER’S RAGTIME BAND
Sat., Dec. 10th.
SONS OF THE LEGION
Mon. & Tues., Dec. 12-13th.
OUT WEST WITH THE HARDY’S
Wed., Dec. 14th.
UP THE RIVER
