WEDNESDAY, APRIL 27, 1938 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Question of the Week

Last Thursday afternoon the seniors sponsored the second Davidson dormitory “Open House” at which visitors were allowed to inspect the first floors of all the dormitories. During the days preceding the “exhibition” many students were heard discussing the desirability of giving such entertainment. Sentiment favored the undertaking, but there were many who opposed it. One boy (a junior) declared that if the seniors insisted upon opening his room, the visitors would really get a true education on the subject of “housekeeping in the dormitories.” Now that the occasion is behind us, the rebellious attitude is not to be found. The question is: Are you in favor of the “Open House?” Here are a few of the thoughts which this question evoked:

Hector McGeachy, Senior: “I think that having an “Open House” is an excellent idea. It gives the school good advertisement and allows the friends of Davidson to inspect the comfortable and modern equipment of the college. It is also one of the few chances which the boys have that enables them to entertain the faculty and residents of Davidson who have done so much for them during their stay at the college.”

Rufus Plonk, Junior: “The idea is fine. In comparison with some of the other schools, our rooms are by far the best to be found and we should be glad to show them off. Many people get their first knowledge of living conditions at college on this occasion. I doubt if the appearance of our rooms on that day is very representative of how they look most of the time. I would prefer the rooms to be in such a condition that life would be portrayed a little more realistically.”

Tom Hackney, Sophomore: “I think that it is a commendable idea because it brings a closer relationship between the faculty and the students. It shows them how we live and enables them to find out if any improvements in our equipment should be made.”

John McQueen, Senior: “The idea of open house to the faculty and other friends of the college is definitely a step toward closer friendship among these groups. It is unfortunate, however, that these visitors are not more cordially received by the students who usually find an excuse to be out of their rooms during visiting hours. We should take pride in exhibiting at every possible chance our excellent living conditions.”

Alex Erwin, Junior: “I am highly in favor of it. The people who live near us cannot ordinarily know about the conditions in which we live while at college. This occasion gives them an inside view. The people of Davidson have done much for us and it is only right that we should try to return some of their hospitality. In the future, I hope that the students will cooperate more in helping the seniors make the visitors enjoy their inspection of our rooms.”

Ben Nash, Senior: “I am all for it. It gives our patrons and friends a chance to see that we can keep our rooms clean, even if rumor denies the fact. Ladies are not allowed in the dormitories and this is a means of letting them see just how we live. The promotion of goodwill between the students and the faculty alone justifies its becoming an annual affair.”

Mr. Jackson Makes Talk On Services

College Treasurer Speaks To Sunday School

Last Sunday morning, Mr. F.O. Jackson talked to the Sunday School class in Phi Hall, emphasizing the importance of the Y.M.C.A.’s Spring service. Mr. Jackson spoke not as a preacher delivering a sermon or a Sunday School teacher reciting a lesson from the quarterly, but as a man, rich in knowledge and experience, giving some helpful advice which he is well qualified to do.

Spring Services

He said that he feared that the Presbyterians put a little too much emphasis on the intellectual side of religion and that these services were a good thing to bring one back to the true purpose of Christianity. The speaker showed how much easier it would be to accept Christ here rather than out in the world where the majority of people might not have quite the same attitude as found here. He warned them against waiting too long to make a definite stand, for the large majority of Christians are saved before they are twenty-one. Mr. Jackson said that Davidson College should be putting out the leaders in the church today. He showed the need for men who would go to God in prayer and seek His help, especially when they have to make an important decision.

Books Placed On New Lists

Many new books of particular interest to the student body have been placed on the shelves of the College Library within the last few days. Folders on the books may be seen in the lobby. Among them is one by James Wechsler, “Revolt on the Campus,” which is primarily a piece of reporting on the current temper of American student bodies and gives the atmosphere of student life before 1929. Also, there is “Socialism” by Ludwig von Mises, who is a professor at the University of Vienna. “The Life and Death of a Spanish Town” by Eliot Paul is also new and the author is well acquainted with his subject. “The Art of Leadership” by Ordway Tead tells many facts about what leadership is, what makes a leader, how leaders function, and how to develop leadership with other practical points.

Glee Club Concert

The Davidson College Glee Club will present a concert tonight, Wednesday 27, at Queens Chicora College in Charlotte. This concert will be sponsored by the junior class at Queens and will probably be the last formal appearance of the Glee Club for the year. The concert will be divided into four groups: first, sacred songs by the entire Glee Club; second, cello solos by Mr. Warren P. Babcock; third, quartet selections; and lastly, a group of secular songs by the Glee Club. The Glee Club presented a concert at Paw Creek High School last Friday evening.

S.A.E. Convention

THESE GIRLS are sponsors for the banquet and dance of the S.A.E. Convention. (Top row, left to right) the sponsors and escorts are: Miss Sara Marshall, Greenville, S.C., with Fitz Dade; Betty Shull, Beattie, of Greenville, S.C., with Pete Marchant; Mary Johnson of Anderson, S.C., with Perry Sloan; Miss Elizabeth Gammon of Charlotte with Mark Cauble; and Miss Emily Jolly with John Latimer, convention chairman. (Courtesy Charlotte Observer).

Local Chapter Will Be Host To Province Gamma Convention April 29-30

Sigma Alpha Epsilon, the local chapter, will be host to the Province Gamma Convention here in Davidson and in Charlotte. About 50 delegates will be expected from states between South Carolina and Maryland. An extensive program has been planned to entertain and interest them during their stay.

Formal Banquet

Luncheon will be served on Friday 29th at the College Banquet Hall and will be followed by a business meeting that afternoon. That night a formal banquet followed by a dance will be given in the ballroom of the Hotel Charlotte. On Saturday the 30th there will be business meetings and, in the afternoon, a fish fry and barbecue at the Red Fez Club on the Catawba River. Delegates will probably remain in Charlotte Saturday night and return to their respective homes the following day. Charlotte alumni have also been notified about the program and will take an active part in the festivities.

Dance On Friday

The dance given by the Province officers on Friday night will be one of the highlights of the convention. The sponsors selected for the affair are: Miss Betty Shull of Greenville, S.C.; Miss Mary Johnson of Anderson, S.C.; Miss Elizabeth Gammon of Charlotte; and Miss Emily Jolly of Anderson, S.C. (Courtesy Charlotte Observer).

Silent Movies Of Colleges For Program

Two-Reel Silent Film, “Nickel,” Will Be Shown

A recent report by the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching on novice teachers will be the feature attraction.The survey of Pennsylvania colleges showed alarming shortcomings in prospective teachers. The survey showed that college students preparing to be teachers made much lower averages than students of other professions. It also showed that in many instances they were inferior to high school seniors whom they would soon teach. The report further stated that many high school students who could not attend college had superior minds to those of graduates who could go to college. The inferior student, although he may pay tuition, seriously drains the state subsidies and covers surplus college expenditures. These individuals could be easily replaced by intelligent students who would be an asset to the college. For the correction of these evils, make sure that the education of the applicant was at least equal to that of the students he would teach. It emphasized the fact that teachers-to-be should be given better education through the application of student aid plans.

Johns Hopkins University has adopted a policy of limiting the number of undergraduates enrolled. Each chapter of the fraternity is the host of its province convention once in 24 years, and efforts are made on the part of the host to entertain fittingly the attending men.

The total cost per year for tuition, room, and board at Harding College is but $200. At the University of California at Los Angeles, 7,846 students drive to college daily in 4,654 cars. The Cynic, University of Vermont student newspaper, is named after the Cynic School, founded by Antisthenes, a follower of Socrates. Ethel Owen, Northwestern University’s contribution to radio drama, has 16 different radio voices.

Records—Victor, Brunswick, Decca Bluebird—35¢ & 70¢ Each. Any Record Not in Stock Can Be Quickly Secured. PARKER-GARDNER CO. PHONE 8257. Charlotte, N. C.

Experts estimate there are 4,000,000 youths between 17 and 24 unemployed. The following sponsors have been reported: Miss Sara Marshall of Greenville, S. C. The report urged that school boards and school superintendents apply a thorough test to job applicants to make sure that the education of the applicant was at least equal to that of the students he would teach.

The Physics and Chemistry weekly moving picture program Friday, April 22, will show how nickel is mined and manufactured. It will also show the many uses to which nickel has been put. The program will contrast the early production and uses of nickel with today’s modern methods and advancements. “This Changing World,” a street sound film with Ewell Thomas as narrator, will also be presented. Showing highlights of history through the ages, the picture will graphically portray the production and uses of nickel. It will conclude with today’s modern methods and will also show how the increasing use of nickel has materially aided the progress of civilization. There will also be a sound movie entitled “Money Metal.” Last week’s pictures included a two-reel silent film, “Sulphur,” showing the production and uses of sulphur, and two sound films, “Heritage.”

Band Holds Election To Choose Officers. At their last rehearsal, the members of the Symphonic Band elected their officers for the coming year. Jack Tillotson of Charlotte was elected president, Rex Beach of Lenoir, N. C., vice-president, and Tom McKnight of Memphis, Tenn., secretary-treasurer. Tillotson and Beach are rising seniors and McKnight is a rising junior. These men will take over their new offices at the beginning of the fall term.

DeLuxe Ice Cream. Mooresville, N. C. Phone 56.

The Senior Class Gift Committee will make its report as soon as suggestions are received from other colleges, Monroe Wicker, chairman, has announced. Besides the gifts that other members of the class have suggested, the committee has also approached Dr. Ingle and Mr. Jackson on the subject. Dr. Ingle advised the class to present a portrait of Dr. Harding, inasmuch as Dr. Harding is the only teacher ever to serve here for 50 years. Among Mr. Jackson’s suggestions was that of refurnishing the offices and rooms in the gymnasium. Other suggestions of his were a contrivance for playing chimes on the Chambers clock every Sunday morning, furniture for some of the administrative offices, and a basketball time clock. After all the suggestions are made, the committee will submit the best ones to the class to be voted upon. This committee is composed of the following members of the senior class: Julian Collins, “Pete” Smith, Mark Cauble, Miss Peggy McKnight, “Teens” Catterly, Bronston Kenney, and Chairman Monroe Wicker. Other suggestions put forward second the idea of chimes or bells for the Chambers clock, and other ideas advanced by Dr. Ingle and Mr. Jackson.

Ministerial Seminary Students. William Thompson, David Eddington, and Walt Dixon were guests of the Ministerial Band at their Sunday afternoon meeting. The three men, who are students at Union Theological Seminary in Richmond, answered questions asked by the club. The questions mainly concerned the life of a student at the seminary as contrasted with student life on the ordinary college campus. A plan to form a Co-ordinating Council was considered and passed. This plan is to co-ordinate the work of the Student Volunteer Band, the Young People’s League, and the Ministerial Band. The plan was presented to the Young People’s League and adopted by them. Volunteers passed the proposal which will be put to use in the near future. A General Council, composed of nine members, will be chosen from the three organizations, three from each group. The purpose will be to assign dates for the various organizations to meet, to eliminate some of the conflicts which have existed in the past. It will seek to co-ordinate the work of these groups on the campus and direct their united strength toward achieving certain goals.

J. O. JONES. It will be a long time before you find another suit as popular as the $32.50 Gaberdines in 6 colors carried in stock by J. O. JONES.

Henderson Jewelry Shop. Watch and Jewelry Repairing. NOW IN KNOX BUILDING.

The ROTC competitive company and platoon drill was held this afternoon on Richardson Field at 3 o’clock. The judges of this contest were Colonel C. S. McCullough, instructor of the National Guard at Charlotte, and two officers of the Guards. The cups and medals that were given to the winners have been on display in the window of the College Pharmacy for the last ten days. The two silver cups were the prizes received by the best company and the best platoon, where they will remain permanently. The medals that were awarded were for excellence in marksmanship. This is not a part of the drill, but the medals were given in conjunction with the cups. Seven High Marksmen. Three medals were given to the three high scorers in the upper classes, three to the best freshman, and one to the best marksman in the battalion. The companies took the field first, each one coming on the field separately and going through the list of commands given them. The platoons then drilled separately, some having their regular officers and some switching officers. This drill is an annual affair, designed each spring to determine the best company and platoon.

Beavers Will Pick Officers. There will be a called meeting of the Beaver Club Thursday night in the office of Watts at nine o’clock, for the purpose of election of new officers. It is probable that the twenty-man organization will extend bids to new men at this time. Membership will be decided much like bids are extended by honorary fraternities. At a meeting last Thursday night, the Beavers formally adopted their constitution. This was the final step in the birth of the recently formed club. Since their comparatively recent origin, the Beavers have been a very active organization.

3. O. JONES. It will be a long time before you find another suit as popular as the $32.50 Gaberdines in 6 colors carried in stock by J. O. JONES.

Standard PRINTING Company. PRINTERS EXTRAORDINARY to SCHOOLS and COLLEGES. SEND US your Booklet. A COMPLETE PRINTING SERVICE. Charlotte, N.C. Reasonable Prices. Prompt Service.