Page Eight THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, JAN. 12, 1938

Hood Applies Church Fire Psychology To Religion

Dr. Frazer Hood spoke on “Reading the Bible through the Eyes of a Psychologist” at the regular monthly meeting of
the Mecklenburg County Ministerial Association last Monday in the YMCA building in Charlotte.

The alert cameraman snapped local firemen as they worked atop the negro Baptist Church of Davidson putting out a roof
blaze. The fire broke out last Sunday morning shortly after the funeral of Oscar Parker, college janitor. The damage done
to the building was slight. (Photo by Wallace Marley).

W.E. Hemphill Attends Meet

KING FOR A DAY

(Continued from Page 2)

Report Card fame, Wade Boggs, our ole friend Bounder Bryant, Basin Street, Vel Williams, and Hoppy Hill get LOW GOW
near the floor. Bobby Breen Ludlam having trouble with changing voice ... Harry McLaughlin and Bull Durham off in middle
of week for censored purpose. Big Sat nite party with Bobby Gish, Bill McLean, Doug Neal, Joe (Bingham) Kellam, and
Seapine. Wild men dashing through lobby of the Roosevelt; Palmer and Hines delaying martyr Lillard two hours from date; the
Police Commission.

By HENRY B. BAKER

(The following film ratings are based upon those of current magazines and the observations of the columnist. A—Excellent; B—Good; C—Fair;
D—Poor.)

“ROSALIE”—Eleanor Powell, Nelson Eddy, Ilona Massey, Frank Morgan, and Reginald Owen. A mythical princess comes to the Roosevelt; Palmer and
Hines delaying martyr Lillard two hours from date; the Police Commission.

Next week the intimate story of Elmore Holt’s collapsed love affair, dance Point. The solo drum routine printed, so help
me.

“WELLS FARGO”—Joel McCrea, Bob Burns, Frances Dee, Lloyd Nolan, John Mack Brown. An epic of the old west with a
wealth of romance, adventure, tragedy, and more. The story of several years and such important historical events as the discovery
of gold in California and the Mexican and Civil Wars. The love element along with a two-cent stamp and marks
it ‘Rush.’ and only Bob Burns fellow “blood-and-thunder” wagon train, one of the first to reach the frontier post of
Santa Fe. Don't fail to see the outcome of the massacre next Saturday and the thrilling episodes to follow.

“REVENGE”—Glenn Morris, Eleanor Holm Jarrett, and George Barber. The plot of this story resembles other Tarzan productions which feature a
near-naked savage trying to save his tribe from the dangers.

“THE PAINTED STALLION”—A breath-taking serial that is now at the local theater. The first episode, which was shown last Saturday,
ended with the running of the freight train.

TAKE IT EASY

(Continued from Page 2)

COLLEGE HOSPITAL

(Continued from Page 1)

Duke game and the Carolina game this person attracted more attention than even the star players on the team. In
fact, she is wonderful. She is MY GIRL.

The love element along with a two-cent stamp and marks it ‘Rush.’ and only Bob Burns fellow “blood-and-thunder” wagon train,
one of the first to reach the frontier post of Santa Fe. Don't fail to see the outcome of the
massacre next Saturday and the thrilling episodes to follow.

DAVIDSON THEATRE

Wed.-Thurs. Jan. 12-13—
“ROSALIE”
With Nelson Eddy - Eleanor Powell

Fri.-Sat. Jan. 14-15—
“WELLS FARGO”

Groceries and canned goods

PAPER HONORS

(Continued from Page 1)

to the school. It is sincerely hoped that this plan will be received wholeheartedly, and that it may continue in
the future.: Merchandise it oe cCrea - Bo urns - Frances Dee O Mon.-Tues. Jan. 17-18— of Quality “TARZAN’S REVENGE”
Md With Glenn Morris - Eleanor Holm M.H. Goodrum Co. Wednesday, Jan. 19— —WRedine.. “DANGER PATROL” ig og g gg
gf! a a a a jnow have plans underway to ) sent | future |cessfully last its cause and consequence,
will be | the | DEFINITION—An optimist is a) vents that are | Masquers Plan Work For Next Semester The
Red and Black Masquers pre- of plays in the all-student a series with The current near casts. of this matic
club was opened season dra- very Monday night, the presentation of “Othello,” suc- with by the Avon Players. The major
work of the club: will be concentrated on a three-act play which they will begin work on im- mediately after
exams are finished. Lewis A. Mason, travelling secre- tary for Sigma Phi Epsilon, visited the chapter Tuesday. | AMONG THE
GREEKS Flash! (Continued from Page 5) The faculty of Davidson | Hill for the week-end and Brother Brother Crabb and
Pledge Miz- College at their regular meet- | Hill went home “to Sharon.” The} .y@ had dates in Charlotte Satur-
ing yesterday, January 11, elect- chapter’s bowling team went to day night. ed the following professors to | Charlotte for
a match Saturday Deepest sympathies are extended ' 7 . ’ Brother Wesley Coghill in the of his father. night.
lee Srother Spenser Goodman is in} | : . | recent the hospital following an appendi- | | citis operation
and Pledge Jim | Hemphill is also under observation | for appendicitis. The majority of | 'the chapter journeyed no
further! the executive committee for the | 1938-39 year: Dr. W. P. Cum- | ming, Dr. S. C. Lyon, Dr.
C. M. Richards, Prof. E. J. Erwin, Prof. J. T. Kimbrough, and Prof. L. B. Schenck. President W. L. Lingle
and Dean M. E. Sentelle will con- ex-officio loss WEST LEADS IN DONATIONS (Continued from Page 1) - ’ |
away than Charlotte for the North | explained that through an oversight basketball game. The had Sunday tinue to serve
as Carolina the top floor of East has not yet members. chapter a feed on been solicited. Rumple, smallest of
night. GIANT MICROSCOPE IS DESCRIBED AT HARVARD Cambridge, 3 (ACP) — A giant microscope, weighing nearly one ton, built on
a new slow-mo- | tion focusing principle, was describ- ed recently at Harvard University. The Harvard giant will magnify 50,000
diameters, which would be like making an exclamation point about as tall as the monument. The slow-motion focusing is done
|with a screw which moves the} microscope lens so slowly it is im- practicable to work by hand. In focus,
several | Ired screws are | j available for ac ing to extreme sharpness. CLARITY OF OBJECTIVE | Hartford, Clarity
| of objective i lege needs Fox of Union liberal arts | ent Dix- told | alumni, | esTCQDS, ...Distressing
symptoms quickly relieved...rub on WICKS VAPORUB the major dormitories, made 50 “It cannot be a simple objective — | k
ledges, for a high percentage, such as would be found in Germany| Sigma Phi Epsilon— I ; “The fund this
year is to go to Brother John Doty and Pledges Washington or Italy or Russia, for we are training personalities
to make the most} Hamilton and Hay spent Saturday help missionaries in the war-torn of themselves and personalities evening at
Winthrop College. | sections of China, to meet the add- differ. We would not regiment Brother Henry Lyons and Bill|ed
expense of transportation out them if we could, for our national Broadway were taking Salisbury in| of danger-zones and to
care for the ideal is one of mutual contribution, Sunday night. An excellent feed sick, including Christian natives,” each according
to his “peculiar an atoun Sunday nights Brother | said Bixler. The Pen That Makes Writing a Pleasure FRIDAY and
Only SATURDAY ee | 59 . This Certificate Is Worth $4.41 59 (his certificate and 59c entitles the bearer to
one of our Genuine Indestructible $5.00 VACUUM FILLER SACKLESS FOUNTAIN PENS. Visible Ink Supply. You SEE the Ink. A lifetime
guarantee with each pen, Sizes for ladies, men, boys and girls. This pen will not leak, blot or break. THE
NEW PLUNGER FILLER—VACUUM ZIP—ONLY ONE PULL AND ITS FULL ‘This PEN holds 2000¢ more ink than any ordinary fountain pen
on the market! You can write e months on one filling! No repair bills. No lever filler! No pressure bar.
Every pen tested at ranteed by the factory to be unbreakable for life. Get yours NOW. THIS PEN GIVEN FREE
if you can buy one in the city for less than FIVE DOLLARS! This Certificate good only while advertising sale
is on. *INTRODUCTORY OFFER—This Pen will be $5.00 after Sale. Also $1.50 Pencils to Match Above Pens, Only 29c ADD
LIMIT 6c Extra COLLEGE PHARMACY 3 Pens to For Mail Reliable Prescription Specialists Each Orders Certificate Davidson’s “Service Drug Store”
Copyright 1938, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co, ... a date with Chesterfield will show you how re- freshingly mild a
ciga- rette can be..it will intro- duce you to that better taste that smokers like. Chesterfields will give you more
pleasure than any cigarette you ever smoked. Weekly Radio Features LAWRENCE TIBBETT ANDRE KOSTELANETZ PAUL WHITEMAN DeEMS TAYLOR Paut DouGLas
