WEDNESDAY, NOV. 9, 1938 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Five

Unity Group Is To Hold Celebration
Brandon And McClure To Conduct Services Sunday At Unity Church

A church that is unique in its organization and its religious and social significance will have its biggest day of the year Sunday, November 13. It is Davidson Unity Church, a congregation without denominational lines and an institution that has proved a treasure ground of religious and sociological study for Davidson College students for many years.

Like the college from which it takes its name, Unity Church will have a homecoming this Sunday. Many of the old grads, who will gather on the nearby campus Saturday for the annual homecoming there, will remain until the next day to attend services at the church which they served as students. Beginning at 10 o'clock with Sunday school, the program will include the regular morning church service at 11 o'clock followed by a big homecoming dinner. Visiting choirs and quartets will join with the congregation at a song service from one o'clock to 3 o'clock, and an evening service will close the day.

Filling the pulpit Sunday morning will be the Rev. Don Brandon of Richmond, Va., and that evening the Rev. Albert McClure of Lincolnton, both former pastors of the church while students at Davidson. The present church had its origin 30 years ago, when a group of children gathered each Sunday afternoon in a little mill chapel for Sunday school, taught by Mr. W. R. Grey and Dr. H. B. Arbuckle of the college faculty. The church also holds a regular morning service and a youth meeting each evening at 6:30 o'clock. The present pastor is Watson Street, who will enter Louisville Presbyterian Theological Seminary next fall and the assistant pastor is Rod Williams of Atlanta, Ga.

Sunday School Led By Beaty
Fifth Commandment Is Subject Of Professor

Last Sunday morning Professor E. A. Beaty conducted Sunday school in Phi Hall on the subject of the Fifth Commandment, honoring our parents. He took his text from Exodus 20:12 and Ephesians 6:1-4. First, Professor Beaty explained the importance of this commandment in the family and home. Honoring our parents, said Professor Beaty, means giving them respect, love, gratitude, obedience, and service. These are the constituents of the family necessary to its maintenance as the core of both our religious and our civil systems. Using Ephesians 6:4 as authority, Prof. Beaty also emphasized the retroaction of the commandments, stating that parents should set an example of honor and obedience for their children, making it only natural.

Prof. Beaty noted the fact that much of this commandment should not be confined to its very words. He stressed the extent that in honoring our parents there are three essentials besides gratitude to which we are nearly constituted—age, superiority, and higher authority—and said that these principles extended beyond the limits of the term parent. For example, every person is given a certain amount of respect by all younger than he. The respect might not be very well-merited, but the very fact that one is old seems to make him due something more than courteousness. Constituted authority is the other object of respect. Try to get an army man, said Prof. Beaty, to speak disrespectfully of the President, however much he might dislike his principles. All of us have [Continued on Page Eight]

Drink a Quart of Milk a Day
@ Drink Pasteurized Milk, It’s Safe @
MOORESVILLE CREAMERY
Mooresville, North Carolina

Church Welcomes Former Pastors

Magazine Has New Features In First Issue
Homecoming Is Theme Of November Edition of Humor Publication

The Fall College magazine, the Davidson Scripts 'n Pranks, was placed in the mail Friday and the student body was treated to its last humor issue and more serious attempts. This November publication brought forth a variety of wit and wisdom of the staff. The cover drawing by Fred Harbin is a very appropriate piece of art for the Homecoming Day celebration and the picture also has its justification by faith is subject of sermon

Phi Debaters Meet Tuesday
Munich Conference Is Topic; Negative Wins

On Sunday evening, November 6, the regular Sunday Evening vesper services were led in the College Chapel by the Reverend Dr. Watson M. Fairley. The scripture for the evening was taken from the third chapter of Romans, beginning with the twentieth verse and continuing with the twenty-second verse. Mr. Fairley then began the evening sermon by saying that what we need, in religion today is more power and strength, and this can be gained through preaching. He then said that he would attempt to strengthen us by explaining the topic of “Justification Through Faith.”

Doctrine Explained

“Justification,” said Dr. Fairley, “is the power of God, through salvation, to everyone that believeth.” Justification is the act of a judge or an announcement or decision by a judge. God is the judge. Certainly, we ourselves do not do it. We are not able to accomplish this act with our own personal powers. God Himself justifies us in the religious sense. If you asked how many Davidson freshmen had seen Davidson’s museum, it would be found that a large majority of them did not even know that it existed. This ignorance, moreover, is not totally confined to the freshmen; sure we have a museum, and what’s more, it doesn’t cost anything to

Phi Gamma Delta

Delta Kappa chapter wishes to announce the formal initiation of Mack Otts, Jr. from Ala. Friday night Brothers Throop, Barker, Darby, Holland, and pledges Branton, Darby, and Rogers attended the Dragon Club dance at the Myers Park Country Club in Charlotte. Over the weekend again at the Formal I.R.S. in Winston Salem were Brothers Throop, Barker, Holland, Parish, Martin, Taylor, and Pledge Sr. The Salem girls were entertained with a feed Saturday afternoon. Mr. and Mrs. McClintock were guests of the chapter Sunday.

Kappa Alpha

Sunday felt her chapter had as guests the Kappa Sigma fraternity and plans are made for a joint

Two students have shown their ability as poets by their lyrics in the magazine. Then there are the candid camera shots of various campus activities which the camera fiends contributed to the magazine. The main feature of Scripts 'n Pranks is the wit and humor which fills the pages from cover to cover. The art staff represents many of the jokes and their illustrations throughout the magazine add greatly to the

“If the new system is free from abuse it is the purpose of the faculty to make the new plan permanent after one year. Yours, M. SENTELLEY”See it! Drop in on the second floor, north wing of Chambers and look it over. This museum is under the sponsorship of and is largely contributed to by Dr. W. L. Porter. Some of the articles have been purchased, but a large part of them have been contributed by alumni and collected by Dr. Porter. In his work in the museum, Dr. Porter has tried to put the emphasis on illustrating interesting objects from North Carolina. There are wood samples, birds, shells, an exhibition of minerals, and a fine collection of arrowheads, all of North Carolina. However, the exhibits are not limited to this state, as there are many shells, minerals, and arrowheads from other places.

The next publication of the magazine will be the Christmas issue and it will come out about December 20. The deadline for articles in this issue is November 22.

Double Cuts On Off Campus Games Abolished

Below is a copy of the letter of Sentelle to the Student Body concerning the new double cut ruling on off-campus games:

Dear Mr. Stair:

The faculty granted the request of the Student Council that the system of double cuts be abolished for the year, the action to be in effect for one year and with the understanding that no undue pressure be exerted on students to attend games away from the campus.

Wednesday, Nov. 9
7:15 P.M. Journalism Club.
7:30 P.M. Prayer Meeting.
7:30 P.M. Photographic Club.
8:00 P.M. Avon Players.
9:00 P.M. Y.M.C.A.

Thursday, Nov. 10
9:00 P.M. Y.M.C.A.

Friday, Nov. 11
8:00 P.M. Alpha Phi Epsilon.

Saturday, Nov. 12
5:00 A.M. to 12:30 P.M. No classes.
2:00 P.M. V. M. I. Football Game.

Sunday, Nov. 13
10:15 A.M. Sunday School.
11:00 A.M. Church Services.
5:00 P.M. Vespers.

Monday, Nov. 14
7:00 P.M. Sigma Pi Sigma.
8:00 P.M. Phi Beta Kappa.
9:00 P.M. Sigma Delta Pi.

Tuesday, Nov. 15
7:00 P.M. Philanthropic and Eumenean Literary Societies.
8:00 P.M. Sigma Delta Psi.
9:00 P.M. Omicron Delta Kappa.

Wednesday, Nov. 16
7:00 P.M. Scabbard and Blade and Journalism Club.
8:00 P.M. Alpha Psi Omega and Red and Black Masquers.
9:00 P.M. Y.M.C.A.

Pi Kappa Phi
Plans are being made to entertain the Alumni and guests next Saturday night.

Sigma Phi Epsilon
Miss Anne Tilghman and Miss Louisa Hay from Winthrop visited the chapter over the weekend. Alumni brother Phiffer Erwin and parents Prof. and Mrs. Erwin, and Dr. and Mrs. G. R. Vowles were dinner guests. Joe Craver and Jim Thompson spent the weekend in Salisbury. Brothers Jim and Charlie Sample and Walter Kunz journeyed to Statesville Sunday night. The Salem girls and dates were entertained after the game by a feed at the chapter house.

S.A.E.
Brothers Tom Cauble, Erle Austin, Lem Kornegay, Hank Bahnson, Hector McLean, and Pledge Brother Freeze attended dances at Salem College in Winston-Salem. Brothers Cooper Law and Julian Lokey went to Florence, S.C. last weekend. Dave King took in the Queen City. Boyd Flynn went to Mars Hill with the “B” team. Brother Tenn went to the National Press Convention in Cincinnati and from there he flew to New York.

Beta Theta Pi
Brothers Gales McClintock, Julian Lokey, Jim Peat, and Dave King went to Hickory. Dave King took in the Queen City. Boyd Flynn went to Mars Hill with the “B” team. Brother Tenn went to the National Press Convention in Cincinnati and from there he flew to New York.

Gamma Sigma Epsilon
Tonight at seven Gamma Sigma Epsilon, the National Chemistry Fraternity, will hold their weekly meeting in the Chemistry building. Plans for the annual open meeting will be discussed. Dr. S. B. Knight, who was passed for honorary membership in the national fraternity by the local chapter several weeks ago, has been approved by the Grand Council. The names of the new members who were initiated on October 28 are: Rufus Allison, Bill Boyce, Bob Doty, Tom Guiton, Vance Myers, Bill Rainey, R. G. Rosser, and Beecher Sitterson.

Ernest Ellison, Inc.
Fire, Casualty, and Marine Insurance
113-115 E. Fourth St.—Charlotte, N.C.
Phone 5490

Standard Printing Company
Established 1907
Charlotte, N.C.
A complete printing service as near as your telephone. Dial 3-5727. Printers of The Davidsonian.

Norton
For men’s shoes, he no longer shops around—just makes a beeline for our store. He saves money, too, because Edgerton values are unusual. You too can save time and money with Edgertons.
Men’s Shoes Street Floor