CAT-TALES By TONI CASALI

DAVIDSON SPORTS

It’s that guy Tipton again. No wonder Coach Wallace Wade isn't shedding any tears about losing his one and only
George McAfee for the season. What's the use of having two potential All-Americans in one backfield at the same time?
Tipton is an All-American, at least in this writer's book. He is the same sort of player as Ace Parker,
Duke's famous hero of two years back; he can run with the best of them, pass with uncanny accuracy, and
punt with even greater skill. He is as cool and level-headed a player as any coach could wish for. He
beat Davidson last year, and he did it again this year. Of course, he had O'Mara, Spangler, Hill, Yorke, and
Bailey helping him, but he was the sparkplug of Duke’s mighty attack. The Devils just aren't the same without him
in there leading the way. Davidson's lighter forces couldn't get started against the mighty Devils. They clicked nicely, however, on
passes—completing nine out of 15 thrown. Davis and Steed also outkicked the Duke backs, but the Dukes were just too
good, too good for a Davidson team to beat them.

WORLD SERIES TAKE THE SPOTLIGHT

The world’s sporting eye will turn this week from King Football to America’s National pastime—Baseball, and the World Series. The
Yankees against the Cubs, or should it be said the Yankees over the Cubs. With such an array of talent
like Joe DiMaggio, Lou Gehrig, Bill Dickey, George Selkirk, and Red Rolfe, the Cubs will have to do some fancy
stepping to win the coveted world championship. The Yanks have a decided edge in pitching with Red Ruffing, who has
won more games than any flinger in the majors, Lefty Gomez, who is coming back to old-time form, and a
crew of fine relief tossers. The highlight of the series should be a pitching duel between either Ruffing or Gomez
and Diz Dean, the Cubs’ talkative pitcher. And while on the subject of baseball, it was too bad that Hank
Greenberg, Detroit’s big first baseman, failed to set a new home-run mark.

SOMETHING SHOULD BE DONE!

In last week's column, the soccer situation was discussed. Evidently, some action was taken to aid them, but one thing—when
they were given the right to use the intramural field for a practice ground—is out of the question. Why should
a group of 25 men take away grounds where practically every member of the student body spends the afternoon in
a few hours of exercise? The group used part of Richardson field for practice sessions last year and everything should
turn out all right if they could be able to do the same this year. The intramural field has always
been used for those members of the student body not participating in sports. The teams have two good fields, Richardson
and the Freshman grounds. Why not let the rest of the school have something? Of course, the field on the
south side of Chambers Building could be used and everything would turn out all right.

DAVIDSON vs. ERSKINE

Davidson rules as top-heavy favorite for the first time this year in their coming game with Erskine’s Seceders. The Wildcats
should take the boys from Due West, S. C., in easy fashion as no injuries, with the exception of Bob
Johnson, reserve guard, reported. Bill Beaty and Captain Dave Warden, who did not see action against Duke, will be ready
to go again, and with the rest of the squad in fair condition, things should be different. The Seceders have
not fared so well, losing games to South Carolina, Catawba, and Presbyterian. Their only score came in the Catawba game.
Erskine, like Davidson, is hampered by the lack of reserves and depends upon about 15 men to play the full
60 minutes. The game, however, should prove an interesting one with Davidson bidding for her second victory and the Seceders
trying to break a string of defeats. Davidson's running attack, which has not been on the brighter side so far
this year, will have a chance to prove its worth against the light Erskine line. Head Coach McEver, on the
other hand, is taking no chances and is pushing his forces hard in preparation for the tilt.

CHECK THESE, (Favorite choice in capitals):

DAVIDSON over Erskine
DUKE over Colgate
NORTH CAROLINA over Tulane
ALABAMA over N. C. State
SOUTH CAROLINA over Wake Forest
TENNESSEE over Auburn
CITADEL over Presbyterian
ARMY over Columbia
HARVARD over Cornell
FORDHAM over Waynesburg
VANDERBILT over Kentucky
MICHIGAN over Chicago
PITT over Duquesne
FLORIDA over Sewanee
GEORGIA over Furman
RICE over L. S. U.
OHIO STATE over Southern California
TEXAS CHRISTIAN over Temple
PRINCETON over Dartmouth
CLEMSON over V. M. I.
V. P. I. over William and Mary
WEST VIRGINIA over Washington and Lee
WOFFORD over Oglethorpe
YANKEES over the Cubs
and the JUNIORS over the Seniors (of course some of these could be wrong, so don't bet anything on them).

Washburn Wins Seventh Annual Frosh Cake Race

122 Freshmen Enter Cross-Country Event

Bob Washburn, of New Haven, Conn., led a field of 122 fellow-classmen around the mile and seven-tenths course last week
to win the annual Freshman Cake Race in ten minutes and 37 seconds. This was the seventh running of the
affair, it having been originated by Track Coach Pete Whittle to uncover cross-country material in the frosh ranks. It is
interesting to note that 11 of the 27 cake winners are from Rome, Ga.: W. F. Summers, Statesville; George Mitchell,
Statesville; Southgate Jones, Durham; Joe Blythe, Elkin; Tom David, Tampa; C. M. Robinson, Lowell; P. R. Rankin, Jr., Mount Gilead;
J. M. Owens, Palm Beach, Fla.; A. C. Wilson, Bardstown, Ky.; Baxter Freeze, High Point; W. C. Hanger, Staunton, Va.;
H. R. St. Clair, Staunton, Va.

Flankman

The playing of Bob Benfield has dispelled all the fears that the coaches had to find someone to fill capably
the shoes of Bailey Williams. He was on the B team last year, but when given a chance he came
through.

Three Teams Vie For Title

The Seniors, Juniors, and Sophomores are running neck and neck in the intramural football race. Each of these three teams
has won and lost one, while the Freshmen have just been trampled on for three consecutive games. On Tuesday of
last week, the Juniors beat the Sophomores in a very even game, despite the score, 12-0. Neal Scott intercepted a
pass on the opening play of the game and ran 20 yards for a touchdown. Later in that same half,
he caught a long pass from Lock Hunter and outdistanced his pursuers for another score. In the feature game of
the week, the Sophomores beat the highly touted Senior team on Wednesday when Billy Turner caught a pass from Bob
Williams over the safety man's head and ran over for the only score of the game. The game was exceptionally
close all the way with no first downs being gotten, and the deciding factor was a break that the Sophs
took advantage of. Although rain [Continued on Page Six]

Kits Prepare For Wingate

After several weeks of intensive practice sessions, Davidson's freshman eleven is rapidly rounding into shape for their first game of
the season with Wingate Junior College. The game will be played Thursday afternoon on Richardson field. Coach “Red” Laird predicts
a fine season for the freshman team and says that this year’s team should be the best in the history
of Davidson College. At present, every position in the first string is still undecided. George Marsh, guard, and Frank Caldwell,
center, look to be standouts in the forward wall. In the backfield, two men, Dave Spencer, former Barium Springs star,
and Claude Hackney, are the most potent threats.

WEDNESDAY, OCT. 5, 1938

Davidson Heavy Favorites For First Time This Year

THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Four

Cats To Play Inexperienced Erskine Team

Davidson Is Favorite For First Home Game

The Davidson Wildcats will meet Erskine’s Seceders of Due West, S. C., Friday afternoon at 2:30 on Richardson Field in
the ’Cats’ first appearance at home this year. The Seceders scared the Wildcats no end last year by holding a
6-0 lead at halftime. Davidson’s Lafferty took charge of things at intermission, however, and smashed over three touchdowns to enable
the ’Cats to win decisively by 21-6.Erskine's losses by graduation were heavy and this year’s team had to be almost
entirely rebuilt. In spite of this fact, their new aggregation—although light and none too plentiful—has shown their classy offensive play
this season. The boys from Due West have lost their first three starts this year, being swamped by South Carolina
and losing to Catawba’s Indians, 26-7, and Presbyterian College, 15-0. The South Carolinians will rely mainly on a speedy, deceptive
backfield. With the possible exception of Bob Johnson, a 185-pound reserve injured in the Duke game, the Cats should be
at full strength for Friday. The short bullet passes that connected nine out of fifteen times for a .600 percentage
against the Blue Devils will probably again be featured in the Davidson offensive, though undoubtedly they will be mixed better
with running than against the Dukes.

Net Tourney In Progress

The annual Fall Tennis Tournament got under way last Monday, with first-round matches being run off Monday and Tuesday. Rea
Tenney, George Jones, and Locke Hunter are seeded one, two, and three, respectively. The tournament is held each fall for
the purpose of getting a line on prospects for the regular season in the spring, and also to note the
improvement of the various men during the summer. Several members of last year’s team were active in tournament play during
the summer. Rea Tenney went to the semi-finals of the Georgia State Junior Tournament, while Billy Turner, No. 1 of
last year’s frosh, played consistently in several of the eastern meets. The Freshman Tournament will begin the last of this
week with the play apparently wide open, as no outstanding first-year men have been discovered as yet.

Passing Proves To Be Best For ’Cats

After Duke's heavy forward line repeatedly repulsed Davidson's light backs on attempted running plays, Davidson launched her much-publicized air attack
and completed nine out of fifteen attempts. Bill Davis had four out of six heaves and Archie Steed made five
out of nine good. The Davidson punting average was 38 yards from scrimmage. Davis kicked six times for a 42-yard
average.

(Continued on Page Six)

Johnson's Barber Shop

Washburn’s winning time tied that of Al Green of Atlanta, Ga., last year's winner, but was greater by over a
minute than the joint record held by Bob Walker and Dave Woodward, both seniors. The first 27 men finished in
this order: Bob Washburn, New Haven, Conn.; Charles Watt, Thomasville, Ga.; Archie Winston-Salem; Elmer Bishop, Asheville; E. J. Garrou, Valdese;
E. Smith, Calloway, Va.; Murray Harlan, Kinston; Dick Coppedge, Rosedale, Miss.; J. Mann, Maxton; F. Magill, Lenoir; C. A. Cobb,
Philadelphia, Pa.; Bill Loy, Charlotte; J. R. McKinnon, Lumberton; E. Bellamy, Knoxville, Ohio; Whitton, Taylor, Winston-Salem; Joe Taylor, Statesville. Prizes
were awarded immediately after the race by the genial Coach Whittle. Cakes and other prizes were donated by the various
boarding houses and local merchants, as has been the yearly custom.

WHERE CAMERA ENTHUSIASTS MEET

REX RECREATION
125-127 S. Tryon St.
Billiards . . . Bowling
CAMERAS AND PHOTOGRAPHIC SUPPLIES
106 S. Church—Phone 3-4302
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Sooner or later, the man who will stop at nothing reaches it.

Prestige is merely the reputation today of past performance.

When in Charlotte Visit Our Restaurant
PRIVATE DINING ROOMS FOR BANQUETS
THACKERS, Opp. Johnson Bldg.
Charlotte, N. C.

All-State?

Bill Johnston, from Leesburg, Fla., has shown to the experts of the state that he is to be reckoned with
in the picking of all-state teams if he continues the stellar playing that he has shown against opponents.

Devils, Heels Lead Big Five

Davidson and State Lose Big Five Encounters

The Big Five situation remained unchanged this past week as the Duke and North Carolina teams continued their victory march.
Duke's comparatively easy victory over the lighter Davidson team by the score of 27-0 was led by Bob O'Mara, big
Devil fullback, who was the spark-plug of the Duke backfield. Eric Tipton averaged 8 yards per try for Duke while
Archie Steed completed five out of nine passes for the ’Cats. North Carolina combined both running and passing to completely
outclass a fighting N. C. State eleven, 21-0. (Sweet) Jim Lalanne was the vital spark for Carolina with his accurate
passes and fancy stepping. Art Rooney and Andy Pavlosky, State’s big guns, were kept well bottled up all afternoon. Wake
Forest's Sophomores gave the Citadel a 31-0 spanking Friday afternoon as Gallovitch and Wirtz ran wild. Wake Forest had too
much power for the light but scrappy Citadel Light Brigade. Edwards was outstanding for the Citadel. As it appears now,
Duke and North Carolina will battle for the Big Five crown, unless the Deacs from Wake Forest can tame the
big Duke Devils. N. C. State’s possible shot at the Big Five crown will depend a lot on the outcome
of their meeting with Wake Forest’s Deacons.

You'll be smartly hatted in a PENN-CRAFT (Division of John B. Stetson Company). You'll like the looks of this new
Penn-Craft when you wear it a-tilt, with its crown smartly pinched in front, brim snapped down.

Men’s Shop—Street Floor

By ANDY DALE

Duke’s powerful Blue Devil eleven proved to be too much for a light but game Davidson team as they whipped
the Wildcats 27-0 on Saturday afternoon at Durham. Eric Tipton and Bob O'Mara bore the brunt of the Duke attack
while Bill Davis and Archie Steed did most of Davidson’s ball handling. Davidson, outweighed by Duke's heavier line and backfield,
fought gamely, but were clearly outclassed from the start. The Blue Devil backs constantly smashed the 'Cat line as they
saved their passes for future games. Davidson's running attack was never able to gain, but for a brief time passes
carried the ‘Cats forward until a Duke interception ended this threat on the Devil 47-yard line. Duke's first score came
as the climax to an 80-yard drive down the field in the first quarter. Robinson dashed through tackle for 19
yards and the six points. Ruffa then scored the only conversion of the afternoon. O'Mara went over from the one-yard
stripe for the second six-pointer to end a 39-yard march. Nine plays later, Blue Devil linesmen blocked Steed’s attempted punt
from behind his own goal line and Graham, 'Cat tackle, fell on it for a safety and two points for
the Dukes. The third quarter ended as the Duke team advanced to the Davidson 10-yard marker. After a short punt
by the ‘Cats, Duke again scored when Wesley McAfee picked up seven yards and a touchdown over tackle. The last
score came late in the last period as O'Mara passed to Marion over the Davidson goal line. Davidson halted a
potential Duke score in the third quarter when Hand recovered Tipton’s fumble as he crossed the goal after an 85-yard
drive down the field in which Tipton had previously reeled off a 34-yard jaunt. For a short while in the
second quarter, Davidson's air attack got going as successive passes brought the ball to the Duke 47-yard line, but Spangler’s
interception of Steed’s pass halted the Wildcats at that point. The heavier Duke line stopped most of Davidson's running plays,
but Steed and Davis combined to complete nine out of fifteen passes for 63 yards.

Directors Selected

Johnny Tice and Junior Alcorn have been selected as the intramural athletic directors, Pete Whittle has announced. Junior Alcorn was
a director last year, serving with Dan Iverson. Tice will take the place of Iverson, who graduated. The two directors
will have charge of all intramural sports, both class and fraternity. They will direct and organize the contests, and then
report the players to the intramural director, Whittle.

Heap Cops

A few drops bring comforting relief. Clears clogging mucus, reduces swollen membranes—helps keep sinuses open. Vicks VA-TRO-NOL

A Covert Idea by Varsity-Town... Hand Picked Full Taffeta Lined. Edges. $27.50 to $35.00

Printing, Our Business

A COMPLETE Printing service as near as your Telephone. For a representative Dial 3-5727

Printers of The Davidsonian

STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
ESTABLISHED 1907
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Garland Court
