WEDNESDAY, SEPT. 21, 1938. THE DAVIDSONIAN

Question of the Week | First Dances Are Set For October 21 | Laundry Adds Freddie Johnson and Duke Blue Devils Are Being

The question asked this week concerns the fraternity rushing season. Should it be put off until mid-year as it is at some of the larger schools and universities? The question as given to a representative of each social fraternity was: "Do you believe that the fraternity rushing season should be put off until the middle of the year, or some other convenient time, or do you think that the present system is satisfactory?" Each of the questioned was asked to consider this question, both from the standpoint of the freshmen and of the fraternities, and to give any other criticism of the rushing system.

Henry Baker, Senior: I believe rushing season should be put off until the middle of the year as this would give both the fraternity and rushees a better opportunity to become acquainted. Under the present system the fraternity does not have time to study the true character of the rushees who in turn haven't the opportunity to learn about fraternity life under normal conditions. During rushing season the true spirit of the fraternity is covered up by feeds, parties, smokers, etc., not to mention the adherence to the supreme teachings of Emily Post, aided by neckties and coats. Also, during the first few days of the school year freshmen need a lot of time for studying in order to set a proper foundation for a good scholastic record, and this is hard to obtain under the present rushing system. I think the mechanics of our rushing system as they stand under the present conditions are excellent.

John Withers, Junior: In spite of the advantages of mid-year rushing, I feel that rushing at the beginning of the year is much more practical. Its supreme advantage is that it tends to make the new men feel that they are really a part of the school. Early rushing also keeps the lapse in studying from breaking in when hard work is most needed. It seems that the freshman would like to get in with his choice of fraternity as soon as possible rather than having to confine his close friends to members of his own class for the first four months of his college career.

Charlie Sample, Senior: No, I think that the present system of rushing is all right here at Davidson, especially postponing it for three or four days as we have done this year. If it were to be put off until the second semester, in a school of this size, the fraternities would be bound to have their men at the end of the first semester, and a lot of the so-called 'dirty rushing' would go on. It might at a larger school, but the system we have is all right.

David King, Junior: Considering our particular situation here at Davidson where there is no unreasonable number of students to rush, I feel the present system of rushing is as efficient as any that might be established. Our present system gives the new men several months more of fraternity life than they would ordinarily have. The present system also eliminates the friction between the different fraternities which might arise through undercurrent pre-season rushing.

Kay Pittman, President of the Pan-Hellenic Council, announced last night that plans were well underway for the first dance set of the season to be held on October 21 and 22. Several of the outstanding southern bands are now under consideration by the Council and every effort is being made to sign a good band at an early date. At present, Freddie Johnson's band and the Duke University Blue Devils are most prominently considered. This set, which takes place on the weekend of the Davidson-Carolina football game, will replace the regular Homecoming dances which cannot be held this year as the Charlotte Armory is not available for that time. Following the custom of previous years, the Friday night dance will be formal while the Saturday night affair will be informal. President Pittman also said that the appointment of the chairman of the decorations committee will be made in the near future.

A visit to the college laundry will reveal several improvements which were made during the summer. One of the most useful improvements was the addition of a new shirt folding machine. This machine has several features: shirts are professionally finished, there are no pins in shirt or band, all buttons are unbuttoned, compact and short-fold, and an "anti-crush" collar protector. Further improvements include a better arrangement of machinery and repainting of the interior. As to improvements in personnel, the college laundry has secured the services of J. D. Scoggins, a recent graduate of the Institute of Dry Cleaning. W. T. Hamrick, manager of the laundry, feels that the addition of Mr. Scoggins will greatly improve the efficiency of the dry cleaning department. Mr. Hamrick also divulged some interesting statistics concerning the operation of the laundry. The amount of work done per week averages approximately ten thousand pounds, which means that about twenty-five thousand pieces are handled every week! About five thousand of these pieces are shirts, and these shirts have to be handled every minute in order to be professionally finished.

Dr. MacConnell has had his assistants Drs. Joseph L. Stevens (Davidson '33) and Dr. Shute of the Duke University Hospital. The examinations were given in the basement of...the infirmary finish five thousand pounds a week, and approximately six hundred boys. The laundry consumes about fifty personnel of the plant, there are thirty employees in the laundry department and seven in the dry cleaning department. They operate the five washing and fifteen pressing machines which are located in the plant.

All Physical Exams Finished Last Week

Dr. J. W. MacConnell announced Saturday that he had practically completed all of the routine physical examinations which are required. ATC class is above normal.

VICTOR and Other Makes of VICTROLA RECORDS
All Latest Hits
ANDREWS Music Co.
231 N. Tryon St.
Charlotte, N.C.

J. O. JONES Inc.
DRAPES DRAPES DRAPES
Bigger Chest
Tapering Sleeves
Higher Trousers Bottoms
Shorter Lapels
More Broader Shoulders
Fuller Knees
Smaller
That’s the Story.
J. O. JONES, Inc.

4 Out of 5 Davidson Men COME TO...
JOHNSON’S BARBER SHOP
Freshmen Get in the Swing

A COMPLETE Printing service as near as your Telephone. For a representative Dial 33-5727 of The Davidsonian Publishers
STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
ESTABLISHED 1907
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Garland Court HITTIN: DAVIDSON THEATRE
Wednesday—Sept. 21
COWBOY FROM BROOKLYN
Following night dance will be formal.

monitors chosen by the faculty, William have already passed through. barrels of soap and one and one half tons of paper to wash and wrap these thousands of articles every year. As to figures on the Wassermann test, it has been given to all freshmen. Dr. MacConnell states that the condition of the new class is above normal.

Page Five

Faculty Club Meets

The first meeting of the Quadwranglers’ club for 1938-1939 will be held Thursday afternoon, Sept. 22nd, in the Quadwrangler room. This will be an afternoon tea in honor of Colonel and Mrs. Armstrong, Dr. and Mrs. Hillhouse, Dr. and Mrs. Knight, Professor and Mrs. McGavock, and Professor McGeachy.

Dr. A. V. Goldiere is president of the club and T. S. Logan, secretary.

New Monitors Appointed

Method for Marking Chapel and Church Absences to Be Continued

Dr. MacConnell has announced that the monitor system, which has proven very satisfactory to both students and professors, will be used again this year. The monitor system is a method of checking absences and tardiness by students assigned to the task of checking a designated portion of the roll at the student body. For those students who are not familiar with this system, a list of monitors is posted on the bulletin board in the Chambers Building. The following is a list of the monitors and the classes to which they are assigned: D. L. McQueen, senior class; J. R. Williams, junior class; J. M. McIntyre, sophomore, first half; D. T. Baker, sophomore, second half; A. T. Bixler, freshman, first half; J. M. Gammon, freshman, second half.

FACULTY-STUDENT BODY

COLLEGE PHARMACY
HUGH F. SAPP—Manager
JAMES F. TOUGH—Pharmacist

Victor, Brunswick, Decca, Vocalion Bluebird, 75¢ Each. Any record not in stock can be quickly secured. Phone 8257
PARKER-GARDNER CO.
Pianos Radios Accordions
Since 1883
Charlotte, N.C.

Features Broadcast Planned

Davidson may again be heard on the air. Negotiations are now underway with Radio Station WBT in Charlotte, and it is hoped by all concerned that our present plans will be successful. For four consecutive years Davidson has presented weekly programs over WBT. These programs have consisted mainly of a variety of musical entertainment under the direction of entertaining, educational talks by various members of the faculty. These programs have been heard over the entire southern area of the United States.

Great opportunities come to those who make most use of smaller ones.

A STETSON AIR-LIGHT is easy on your head. You'll hardly know you have a hat on when you wear this Stetson Air-Light. But your friends will recognize its smart, modern lines. $5.00
Men's Shop—Street Floor

Start On Even Terms with Any Other Student by getting the Pen that Has What It Takes to help you rate marks that you can write home about. You can SEE the level of ink at all times—see when to refill—so it won’t run dry in classes or tests. It holds such a copious reserve of ink to begin with that you need fill it only 3 or 4 times from one term to the next. Go to any good pen counter today and try this pedigreed Beauty of laminated Pearl and Jet—a wholly exclusive and original Style. And look for the smart ARROW clip. This identifies the genuine and distinguishes the owner.

WELCOME STUDENTS
Remember Us? We Remember You
WHITE DRUG CO.
DAVIDSON, N. C.

The Parker Pen Co., Janesville, Wis.

TELEVISION

Thursday—Sept. 22
BREAKING THE ICE

Naturally, your Parents want you to start the new term on a par with anyone else in your class. That's why they'll want you to back your brains with a Pen like the revolutionary new Parker Vacumatic. Its Scratch-proof Point of Platinum and 14-K Gold writes like a breeze because it’s tipped with jewel-smooth Osmiridium, twice as costly as ordinary iridium. And the Parker Vacumatic won’t let you down by running dry unexpectedly in classes or quizzes. Held to the light it shows the ENTIRE ink supply—shows when to refill. And it holds such a copious reserve of ink to begin with that you need fill it only 3 or 4 times from one term to the next.

Friday—Sept. 23
AFFAIRS OF ANNABEL

Saturday—Sept. 24
SMASHING THE RACKETS

Pencils to match: $3.50, $3.75, $4, $5

Parker Vacumatic
GUARANTEED MECHANICALLY PERFECT