Page Six THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, NOV. 2, 1938

Mr. and Mrs. Swing Give Interview To Reporter
Red Norvo And Mildred Bailey Discuss Swing And Other Topics

Weekly Schedule

Wednesday, Nov. 2
7:00 P.M. Scabbard and Blade.
7:15 Fred Smith’s Journalism Class.
8:00 Alpha Psi Omega and Red and Black Masquers.
9:00 Y.M.C.A. Cabinet.

Thursday, Nov. 3
7:15 P.M. Social Fraternities.
9:00 Beaver Club.

Friday, Nov. 4
7:00 P.M. Pi Gamma Mu.
8:00 Alpha Epsilon Delta.
9:00 International Relations Club.

Saturday, Nov. 5
3:00 P.M. Davidson-Wofford football game.

Sunday, Nov. 6
10:15 A.M. Sunday School.
11:15 Church.
6:30 P.M. Vespers.

Monday, Nov. 7
7:00 P.M. “D” Club.
8:00 P.M. Le Cercle Francais.
9:00 P.M. Y.M.C.A. Cabinet.

Wednesday, Nov. 9
9:00 P.M. Y.M.C.A. Cabinet.

BY C. SHAW SMITH

The singer who got Bing Crosby his first job had just finished another performance at the Broadway Theatre in Charlotte.
With tears in her eyes and a few harsh words because the “mike” had gone dead in the middle of
one of her songs during the last show, “I can't work with things like that going on,” Mildred Bailey sobbed.
The man who was responsible for the mike was at a loss for words and he needed none because Mrs.
Swing (Red Norvo) comforted her and after she learned that none other than Walter Winchell had tossed an orchid her
way for her recording of “My Reverie,” the broken mike was forgotten and she talked freely.

“To start at the beginning—I was born in Spokane, Washington, about a thousand years ago,” she laughed. It seems she
has sung since the age of five and has been a professional since fourteen. According to Mildred, she got Bing
Crosby and her brother, Al Rinker, a job at a theater in her home town, and it was there that
Paul Whiteman discovered them. Boris Morris joined these two boys to make the famous “Rhythm Boys.” Later in California, Bing
and Al got Whiteman to listen to Mildred and she was discovered. “Quite a mix-up, but one good favor deserves
another,” said the “Rocking Chair” lady.

Mildred Bailey was with Paul Whiteman for four and one-half years, after which she freelanced for a while and then
did some commercials. Now she is married to Red Norvo and they have their own band. “It’s better this way,”
she said, “I have the music as I like it now.” She lists as her favorites, Debussy’s “Afternoon of a
Faun” and Stravinsky’s “Firebird” in the first realm, and “More Than You Know,” “My Reverie,” and “Old Rocking Chair” in
the popular field. Maxine Sullivan is her favorite singer and Bing is tops as the male warbler.

Mrs. Swing likes her ranch in California but says that she has little time to be there. Another thing she
likes is the “grits” that Southerners are so fond of serving.

Music Maestros, Please!

Davidson-Carolina fans saw an unusual sight at the game last week when a band of band leaders paraded during the
half. Thirty-one men, all bandleaders and each in his own individual uniform, combined to form the Carolina music section. Three
representatives from Davidson, J. C. Pfohl, Thane McDonald, and W. P. Babcock were present in this group.

AMONG THE GREEKS
[Continued from Page Five]

Pat Rudolph went to the game in Greenville and then went on to Asheville with Jack Westall and Charlie McArthur
for the rest of the weekend. John McGeachy went home and to the Furman game. Brothers Sproull, Reinhardt, and Vereen
accompanied Pledge George Wright to the square dance in Huntersville.

* * * *

Major Steel Initiated; Sigma Phi Epsilon

Major Charles L. Steele was initiated into the chapter last week and Phillip Edwards of Rocky Mount was pledged. Mr.
and Mrs. M. V. Harlan, parents of Pledge Brother Murray, and Mrs. W. R. Heilman, mother of Brother Walter Heilman,
visited the chapter last week. Major Steele and family went to the mountains Sunday in company with Brother Charlie Sample.
Mr. and Mrs. Andy Turner, who also went to the mountains on Sunday, were forced to interrupt their homeward trip
when the world came to an end over the radio. Brothers Edmondson, Harper, McDaniel, and Pledge Brother Keelhn went to
their homes in Tarboro. Casali, Galbreath, Coghill, and Bell journeyed to the Duke-Carolina game and the Fall Germans.

Organize Club

For the last few Thursday evenings, members of the newly formed Faculty Badminton Club have met for play in the
Alumni Gymnasium. The organization was perfected by Athletic Director Norman Shepard and Coach A. H. Whittle, Coach and Mrs. E.
T. McEver, Coach and Mrs. L. A. Spearman, Mr. and Mrs. F. W. Hengeveld, Professor and Mrs. W. N. Mebane,
Dr. and Mrs. Frontis Johnston, Dr. and Mrs. G. B. Watts, Professor and Mrs. Chalmers Davidson, Dr. and Mrs. Lewis
Schenck, and Professor and Mrs. William McGavock.Germans there. Brother Fitz-gerald visited Rufus Allison in Charlotte, while Toby Conyers went home
to Rocky Mount. The following girls were omitted from a list of dates for the Homecoming Dances last weekend: Misses
Eva Tillman and Esther Lee Harris, Charlotte; “Tag” Smith and Nancy Carter, Salisbury; and Ann Hardy, Jesup, Ga.

REV. McELWAY [Continued from Page Five]

of those who have found that type of life, with all its hardships, worthwhile,” said Mr. McElway. Mr. McElway closed
by saying, “They (meaning those who follow a Christian life) counted the cost of life with Him as we must
count the futility of life without Him.” After the singing of two hymns by the quartet, a benediction was pronounced
by the Rev. Mr. Gibson, and with a response from the quartet, the service was completed.

Simplicity, truth, and persistency are three factors that build success in advertising.

You can't keep some people from thinking. The job is to get some of them started.

Initiative is the ability to do the right thing—first. And the world pays well for it.

Boggs, McLean, Kenyon, Rice, Webb Go To Student Christian Meeting

Wade Boggs, Dick Kenyon, Dave McLean, Sherrard Rice, and Sam Webb represented Davidson at the Students Christian Association’s conference at
Peace College, Raleigh. The conference opened with a devotional meeting led by Wade Boggs. The central theme for the conference
was “The Student's Need of the Hour.” This theme was carried out through the entire series of meetings. The Students
Christian Association is made up of delegates from most of the Presbyterian colleges in North Carolina. Davidson is not a
member of this organization. There were about thirty-five students present at the conference. The conference lasted from Friday night till
Sunday afternoon.

After the conference, Dick Kenyon met Sam Newell in Greensboro and they went on another deputation at the Woman's College
of the University of North Carolina. The subjects of the meeting were “Ruth” and “Love.” Still another deputation, under the
auspices of the Cabinet of the Y.M.C.A., was sent out to take charge of the Young Peoples Rally held at
Durham late Sunday afternoon.

Honest, in building air castles, do you always put the same persons in them?

FRATERNITIES ATTENTION!

Five Go On Deputation To Raleigh Conference Discuss Punishment

Continuing its series of informal discussions, the E Literary Society, at its meeting last Tuesday evening, October 18, considered the
various phases of Capital Punishment. Many debatable points were brought forth and the members engaged in a warm discussion during
the entire meeting. Among the arguments advanced was the point that capital punishment is more humane than life imprisonment. Many
members immediately disagreed with this view and suggested that capital punishment is not an expression of Christianity. Several other opinions
were expressed and while the majority of views were opposed to capital punishment, as usual no decision was given.

Ease Dryness, Coughs RASPY THROAT DUE TO COLDS

If your throat’s tormented with irritation, huskiness, dryness or coughs due to a cold, a Vicks Cough Drop dissolved naturally
in your mouth will give the troubled membranes a soothing, medicated bath... 12 to 15 minutes! Relief comes fast because
Vicks Cough Drops are like a medicated steam bath for your throat—soothing, comforting.

We Cut Wood To Your Specified Size FREE DELIVERY Get Your Winter Supply Now DAVIDSON ICE & FUEL CO.

[Continued from Page Four]

Mr. and Mrs. Swing continue northward where they will locate about the first of September. They start on the Camel
Program in the middle of November.

The loss to Duke was close and indicates the relative strength of the teams. Carolina's decisive score last week was
based on an injured ankle which forced Walker to drop out and a pulled muscle which has bothered Woodward for
some time. The W. and L. meet showed a greatly improved team with all five lettermen running in a smooth
combination.

STATE

Mooresville, N. C.

Wed. Nov. 2 Dixie Dunbar Thurs.-Fri., Nov. 3-4 BOY’S TOWN SPENCER TRACY MICKEY ROONEY Sat. Nov. 5—Double Feature MAN FROM
MUSIC MOUNTAIN GENE AUTRY —Also— THE CHUMP JACK DAVIS Mon.-Tue., Nov. 7-8 VALLEY OF THE GIANTS CLAIRE TREVOR WAYNE MORRIS

STATE THEATRE MOORESVILLE, N. C.

This game having no effect on Big Five standings, State remained in third place. Their next encounter in the “Five”
is with Duke. Wake Forest lost to Clemson on Friday. They remain in the cellar where they are tied with
Davidson, each outfit having lost three and won none. This tie will not be broken until November 24 when the
two teams meet in Charlotte in a Turkey Day classic. Davidson upset Furman 13-12 as both teams looked about equal.
Bill Davis’ conversion was the margin of victory for the Wildcats after Davis had passed to Iverson for the tying
score.

An apple a day keeps the doctor away—unless you get the seeds in your appendix.

When one’s nose is held to the grindstone, one can see nothing but the grindstone.

Buy Those Little Conveniences For Your Room From SOUTHERN 5 & 10c STORE Davidson, N. C.

Cars for Rent M. P. Henderson DAVIDSON, N.C. GULF GAS & OIL

PAUL WHITEMAN Every Wednesday Evening GEORGE BURNS GRACIE ALLEN Every Friday Evening All C. B. S. Stations EDDIE DOOLEY Football
Highlights Every Thursday and Saturday 52 Leading N. B. C. Stations

Copyright 1938, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.

A cigarette... how fast that says it for smokers... refreshing mildness... better taste... more pleasing aroma... everything you could ask
for in Chesterfield... more pleasure for millions.
