WEDNESDAY, OCT. 19, 1938 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Five

AMONG THE GREEKS

SIGMA ALPHA EPSILON—Brothers Lem Kornegay, Mark Cauble, George Grantham, and Hank Bahnson visited Salem College in Winston-Salem last weekend. Pledge Brothers Ed Lucas and Baxter Freeze attended the Duke-Tech game last weekend. Charlie Smith went to Sumter and Greenville for the weekend. Tom Cauble attended the dance at Myers Park Country Club Saturday night. Brothers Tom Dunn and Alec Erwin spent the weekend in Greensboro. Brother John Latimer went to Sumter. Mr. and Mrs. C. A. Laird visited the chapter Sunday.

KAPPA ALPHA—Brothers Joe Calvin and Sam Spencer journeyed to Birmingham for the Ala.-Tenn. football game. Sam Newell spent the weekend in Rock Hill, while Dick Taylor went home to Oxford. Another football fan was “Bosco” Marion who attended the Duke-Ga. Tech game in Durham. Charlie Hines enjoyed the holidays at Converse in Spartanburg. The usual weekly feed was held at the house Sunday night.

PHI GAMMA DELTA—Bill Bolin attended the Ala.-Tenn. game in Birmingham last weekend. Bob Kellogg and Cage Brewer attended the Duke-Ga. Tech game in Durham last Saturday. Mrs. Fred Stair, Sr., visited the chapter over the weekend. Frank Barker and Charlie Marshall attended a dance at Myers Park Country Club Saturday night. George Stowe went to Charlotte Saturday night. Winston Taylor spent the weekend at his home in Mooresville. The usual feed was held at the house Sunday night.

SIGMA PHI EPSILON—Brother Walter Fitzgerald went to his home in Crewe, Va., for an extended weekend. Brothers Joe Craver, Jimmy Thompson, and Bogo Kunz spent the weekend in Salisbury. Jim Sample and Rufus Plunk spent Saturday night in Charlotte. Tom Casali attended the Davidson-S. C. game in Sumter.

PI KAPPA PHI—The brothers entertained at a party Saturday night. Among the girls present were Brooksie James, Esther Lee Harris, Ann Mauldin, Carolyn Caudle, Fran Dell Sutherland, Martha Alexander, Ceil Sypher, and Katherine Davis of Charlotte, and Helen Cumnock, Alice and Martha Withers of Davidson. The parents of Brother Cunningham visited the chapter over the weekend. Brothers Niven and Saunders went to Raleigh, and Brother Flynn robbed the cradle at the Academy in Winston. Brother Cunningham attended the Sons and Daughters of Liberty dance in Greensboro.

PI KAPPA ALPHA—Jim Anderson took in a series of dances in South Carolina. Rufus Allison went to his home in Charlotte. John Scott spent the weekend at Statesville. Bob McClellan finally got to his home in Johnson City, Tenn. John Scott Raynal also went to Statesville. Brother Reisner went to the mountains with Dr. Gwynn’s discussion group. Brothers McElwee, Willis, and Shewmake, along with Brother Shelton went to Charlotte Saturday night. Brothers Rice, Russell, Brinson, and Monger were in Charlotte Sunday night. An informal reception was given for the faculty Thursday night in honor of Dr. and Mrs. Hillhouse.

KAPPA SIGMA—Karl Jonas spent the weekend in Marion. Charlie Bob Wyatt spent the weekend in Raleigh. Ray Pittman went to Fayetteville Saturday night. Frank Harrison attended the Duke-Tech game in Durham Saturday. Phyllis Crooks and Martha Sylvaine were guests at the house Friday afternoon. The usual feed was held at the house Sunday night. Yates and Louis Hipp spent Saturday night in Greensboro.

PHI DELTA THETA—Tommy Glenn spent the weekend in Greenville. Roy Burton, John McGech, and George Wright went to Greensboro Saturday night. Billy Turner went to Charlotte Saturday night. Bill Boyd, Marshall Foote, Reid Harmon, Hugh Verner, and Jack Lee went to Rock Hill Sunday afternoon. Bob Reinhardt spent the weekend at home in Lincolnton. Arthur Moore visited the chapter Sunday afternoon. A feed was held at the house Sunday night.

BETA THETA PI—Eddie Steere spent the weekend squirrel hunting in the mountains in north-west Carolina. Tom McKnight attended his brother’s wedding in Memphis, Tenn. Julian Squires, Gales McClintock, Tom Abbott, and Charlie Pegram went to Charlotte Saturday night.

Medical Care Well Rounded Students Get Competent Physical Attention

Music Heads Attend

Members of the Davidson Music department during the past week have attended several important meetings dealing with education. On Monday night, Oct. 9, Professor Pfohl went to Greensboro to be present at the executive meeting of the North Carolina Bandmasters’ Association. Dr. Gwynn of the Psychology Department and Professor Pfohl went to Raleigh on Tuesday of last week in connection with a meeting of the N. C. Board of Education. On Friday night, Oct. 14, Professors Pfohl and McDonald went to Greensboro to attend a meeting of all music teachers of North Carolina.

Davidson students are unusually well provided for as far as medical attention goes, according to a recent statement by Dr. J. W. MacConnell, the Davidson College physician. Take, for example, the x-ray facilities available. “We are only twelve minutes from the Mooresville hospital which has a new $3,500 machine, and the hospital makes special rates to Davidson students. This is better than owning our own machine, as the pictures are made by an expert technician and read by competent surgeons,” said Dr. MacConnell. “In Charlotte, Dr. Oren Moore gives us the use of his x-ray machine at practically no cost,” continued the Davidson physician. “The Mecklenburg Sanatorium in Huntersville does our chest work. This is also highly technical and is done by specialists.”

Dr. MacConnell stated that the present day student has had better care prior to his entrance to college. He has had better dental attention; he has been fed a more balanced diet; he is taller by an inch than the student of fifty years ago, and is not so rugged, as he has been protected. Sixty-five percent of the students have had their tonsils removed before matriculation.

The world may be growing better, but locksmiths keep right on making locks. It is interesting to note that Dr. MacConnell in 1908 gave the first typhoid vaccine ever given in the South.

Dr. Schenck Gives Talk In Phi Hall Theme of Sunday School Talk Is God, the Foundation of Our Faith

Addressing the weekly Sunday School class in Phi Hall last Sunday, Dr. L. B. Schenck chose as his text the 46th Psalm, emphasizing the seventh and last verses. Dr. Schenck found as the theme of this Psalm the fact of God as the foundation of our faith. Taking the above verses, which are the same and form a divisional refrain, “The Lord of hosts is with us; the God of Jacob is our refuge,” he found a two-fold description of God and a dual statement of His attitude toward us. As the “Lord of hosts,” God is the Hebrew “Jehovah” — the incommunicable and all-powerful ruler of the hosts of the skies, of heaven, and of earth. By this appellation, we are reminded of the majesty, wisdom, and power of God in His Infinite Being. The “God of Jacob” is the God of Mankind. As He blessed and cared for Jacob, mean and deceitful as he was, so will He be with us in all troubles and shortcomings. Thus these two names of God bring before us the paradox of His infiniteness and His nearness, of His majesty and His mercy.

The statement, “The Lord of hosts is with us,” has been shown by countless examples throughout the centuries. There is an inner yearning for God within each one of us, and God meets this desire by placing man in communion with Himself — by being with us in all that we do. In showing that God is our refuge, Dr. Schenck pointed out that man’s greatest enemy is fear, and quoting Joseph Fort Newton and Basil King, found that God alone is able to conquer fear. In the chaos both inside and outside, which is everywhere present, God is our only refuge, an omnipotent help in trouble.

Society Votes Not To Merge Alpha Psi Omega Prefers to Remain Separate

The local chapter of Alpha Psi Omega, honorary dramatics fraternity, has decided against the wholesale absorption of Davidson's Red and Black Masquers into its ranks. The plan of merging these two dramatic societies has been discussed at length, but the fraternity prefers to remain an organization of attainment rather than to assume an active role in student productions. The Red and Black Masquers present several short plays every year and are responsible for all Davidson College dramatics. In addition, they sponsor one major production by some outside group each year, which climaxes the students’ achievements. Last season they presented...

Caught “Red-Handed!” Yellow Metal Lures Old Diz Dave Turns Prospector and Goes After Gold

After a summer at Camp Brevard as boxer, wrestler, and Boy Scouter, Dave McLean was at last homeward bound with his radial digit furnishing the transportation. Running into bad luck, he turned around and bummed the other way, reached home (Pinehurst, N. C.) in four or five days with seventy-five cents in his pocket. Finding himself in need of a little spending money and filled with a desire to get back to old Mother Earth, McLean hied himself away to big brother Bob's gold mine, the “Iola,” in Montgomery County.

By way of explanation: Back in 1890 the Iola had been one of the country’s richest producers of gold, putting out ninety dollars worth a day. For nearly a century however, it's been half closed because the Chancery Court has been unable to hand down a decision on a dispute over boundaries between neighboring mines. Since the leases of both mines ran out last spring and nullified the injunctions, Bob McLean, who's a mineralogist, took out an option...

Evidence that “Boo” Walker will soon be showing his stuff to Dave Warden’s boys is presented in the picture above. The captain of the Davidson track team was snapped as he was attempting to master the gentle game of functional football in ten easy lessons.

Prayer Meeting Plans Put Forward By StairOn the lola, got the started things running. When Dave asked him about doing a little mining, Bob gave him an old pair of overalls and told him to get started. The mine itself extracts the gold by a more complicated method involving crushers, sluices, and plates covered with mercury. Dawn found our ambitious young hero hard at work, knee-deep in a chilly mountain stream with his pants rolled up. The sun rose high.

Lingle Speaks In Wilmington

Monday evening President Walter L. Lingle began a series of talks to the elders, deacons, and laymen of the Wilmington Presbytery at Wilmington. Dr. Lingle left Davidson Monday for a three-day visit to the Presbytery. His mission is to discuss with the elders and deacons how to execute their duties. In addition, he is speaking to a group of Hi-Y members today on their life work. The meeting will close tonight, and he will return to the campus tomorrow.

Last Sunday, Dr. Lingle was a guest at the all-day service of the Fort Mill Presbyterian Church, which celebrated its sesquicentennial. Seven former ministers were present, together with descendants and relatives of others. A feature of the program was the dedication of a new religious education building, and a communion service was held afterward. Next Sunday, he will speak at the First Presbyterian Church of Spartanburg, S.C.

Y. M. C. A. Cabinet Appoints Leaders to Conduct Programs on Each Hall

On Tuesday morning, Fred Stair presented to the student body a plan for the organization of weekly prayer meetings on each corridor in the dormitories. This program was followed with some success last year, but lack of interest and poor organization prevented the universal acceptance that is expected this year. The Y. M. C. A. Cabinet will sponsor these informal prayer meetings and is working in cooperation with the newly-appointed Friendship Council upon the project. A leader on each hall has been appointed to have charge of the meetings; in addition, he will represent his floor on the Council, which will meet every month in the future to discuss any problems that may arise. These prayer meetings will be held each Tuesday and Thursday evening at ten o'clock, when a quarter-hour of quiet will be observed all over the campus. As in the past, they are to be entirely voluntary with the purpose of sincere prayer and promoting Christian influence. It is sincerely hoped that this plan will meet with cooperation on the part of the student body.

Union is strength, but where the elements composing it are both weak, their combination may be weak also.

MAGAZINE WILL

[Continued from Page One]

Ramsey and Ed Morrow will have poems in the first issue. Unless a letter is received by Editor Miller from Miss Ginger Rogers, judge of the womanless beauty contest, within a few days, the contest will be postponed until the Christmas issue. Also, the candid snapshot of the unknown water tank painter will not be published, as the Davidsonian beat the Scripts 'n Pranks to the scoop.

MORROW & STONESTREET

Radio Shop

MOORESVILLE, N. C.

Prompt and Dependable Repair Service

Philanthropic Society Attends Queens Entertainment

Girls’ Society Presents Varied Program at Church Hut

Last Thursday night, the Philanthropic Literary Society was the guest of the Queens College Spectator’s Club at a joint meeting held in the Hut of the Myers Park Presbyterian Church. Miss Olive Croswell, president of the Spectator’s Club, introduced the various members of the society who were to take part in the program. There are approximately two hundred and fifty members in this club, and only the first fifty to sign up were allowed to attend the meeting. About the same number of members and prospective members of the Phi Society went to Charlotte for this occasion. Due to the illness of Miss Sarah Thompson, a sophomore at Queens, Miss Pan Peyton of Davidson read several of her original poems. These were very humorous and appealed to the whole group. In order to get the group more lively, an extemporaneous one-act play was put on by Miss Jennie Wright of Queens, with Bill Boyle and Joe Gammon supplying the male element. "The Red Carnation," a decidedly mixed-up comedy, went over in a big way. Miss Frances Riddle ended the girl’s part of the program with her rendition of those two ever-popular songs.

Kappa Sigma

And your officers: Pres. Warren Gaw, V.-Pres. Bob Cooper, Treas. Jimmy Hoye set the style in college men’s dress suits. It’s a real party when you go in "white tie 'n tails." Be among the first in your crowd to recognize they are tops again. It won't be long now before our good friend Mr. Dinner Coat is back where he belongs at semi-formal occasions. Overcoats, hats, mufflers, shirts, and gloves must be correctly chosen too.

Repartee is the big man’s smart answer to your question. If it comes from a little man, you call it an insult.

Compound interest and advertising are very similar; the longer they are continued, the better the results.

128 NORTH TRYON STREET

CREATORS OF REASONABLE DRUG PRICES.

The seconds ticked by; the minutes came and went; yet hour after hour of terrific, back-breaking labor brought no results.

Locate Radios, Refrigerators, and Household Appliances

Special: Shampoo and Finger Wave 50¢

Buy Where You Get Good Installation and Dependable Maintenance

PHONES: Day 4107—Night 1249

205 S. TRYON STREET, Charlotte, N. C.

DAVIDSON

Oh, We Wouldn’t Know!

ALL WE have to go by is the word of some friends on the campus who tell us that many a man’s showing signs of the tensions born of much thinking about next weekend, and that more than a few fellows are apparently on the verge of popping. This seems to us about as it should be. We can restrain ourselves for a few days because we count on seeing the act down in The Tavern. We’re practically sure to be filled up with Davidson men when Saturday evening comes; and we expect to see some, anyway, of the popping. Of course, we'll be urging you to pop quietly and discreetly, as Davidsonians generally do!

“The Tavern” of Hotel Charlotte

Davidson, N. C.