Page Two - The Davidsonian

Founded By the Class of 1915

1937 Member 1938 Associated Collegiate Press

Distributor of Collegiate Digest

Published Weekly "For a Better Davidson"

Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON AVE. NEW YORK, N.Y.

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879.

BILL MARQUIS, Editor-in-Chief
CHARLES MOORE, Business Manager

No-Corsage Plan...

Students at Carolina are going to see just what the sentiment is on the question of giving corsages to girls
when they go to dances. The matter has been a controversial one since it came up some weeks ago, and
leaders of the "no corsage movement" predict an overwhelming victory.

They base their arguments on many sound principles. The cost of corsages for a single dance amounts to thousands of
dollars, which amount could rather be spent to help students through school or for other worthy purposes. Another reason for
the proposed move is that often boys pay more for flowers than they can really afford just so that their
dates will look as well-dressed as any on the floor.

The psychology of their thinking is sound. If no corsages are allowed on the dance floor, all the girls and
their dates will be on a more equal footing, and girls with the cheaper flowers will not be shamed by
those with the more expensive ones. Advocates of the plan argue that by thus putting the girls on an equal
footing a lone stride toward more friendly relations between the dancers will be made. Besides, they say, think of all
the money the poor college students will be able to save!

If this meets with success at Carolina—and reports show that it undoubtedly will—Davidson might profit by doing likewise.

WEDNESDAY, MAY 18, 1938

Letters To The Editor

DEAR BILL:
There is a need here at Davidson for a point system. Those who are opposed to such here say that
the decision should be left to each man to accept only those offices which he can efficiently fill. Does a
man in his Junior year know of the time, the work, and sacrifices required of the various offices? I do
not believe he sees these facts in their true significance. Each of my four years at Davidson has contained some
three or four men of the Senior Class who had each accepted more offices than he could efficiently handle. The
direct result of this condition is shown in many phases of college life but one outstanding example is the decline
of the honorary fraternities on the campus. Those men outside any particular honorary fraternity have no idea of that fraternity’s
functions. Things may appear to them to be progressing smoothly, when in reality there is stagnation in that group. I
do not intend to assert that this fact is true of every honorary fraternity on the hill because we all
know of the outstanding work done by a few of them; these few being led by men who are very
energetic in that particular field and men who are not too occupied with other campus affairs. These groups deserve merit
and praise. They show what could be done in all our honorary fraternities if we have the right men to
lead them.

This proposed point system affords the greatest step in the direction of this condition of betterment. I ask that each
student give this point system his careful attention, and when the time for voting arrives, that he will uphold his
vote by sound reasoning.

MARTIN L. LAFFERTY.

DEAR BILL:
Since a number of misconceptions concerning the point system have arisen I think that some attempt should be made to
straighten things out.

I think that one purpose of this plan is to give "honor" to those who deserve it. There is a
need here at Davidson for a point system. Those who are opposed to such here say that the decision should
be left to each man to accept only those offices which he can efficiently fill. Does a man in his
Junior year know of the time, the work, and sacrifices required of the various offices? I do not believe he
sees these facts in their true significance. Each of my four years at Davidson has contained some three or four
men of the Senior Class who had each accepted more offices than he could efficiently handle. The direct result of
this condition is shown in many phases of college life but one outstanding example is the decline of the honorary
fraternities on the campus. Those men outside any particular honorary fraternity have no idea of that fraternity’s functions. Things may
appear to them to be progressing smoothly, when in reality there is stagnation in that group. I do not intend
to assert that this fact is true of every honorary fraternity on the hill because we all know of the
outstanding work done by a few of them; these few being led by men who are very energetic in that
particular field and men who are not too occupied with other campus affairs. These groups deserve merit and praise. They
show what could be done in all our honorary fraternities if we have the right men to lead them.

This proposed point system affords the greatest step in the direction of this condition of betterment. I ask that each
student give this point system his careful attention, and when the time for voting arrives, that he will uphold his
vote by sound reasoning.

SHERRARD RICE.

DEAR BILL:
The point system is going to demand a changed attitude on this campus as regards responsibility. Instead of taking on
as many offices as he can, a senior will have to settle on a limited number (maybe only one or
two) and do them well. Bill Gardner told us to “dwell deep.” I believe that applies to this situation. There
are certain jobs here which demand all of a man’s time—there are other jobs which should be given to the
men who haven't very much already so that they too can develop in leadership. It’s been our attitude in the
past to put ODK men in charge of everything possible, although in most cases these men already have a major
office or so which should give them all the work they can adequately handle. While these men are wondering how
they can possibly supervise all the things they have charge of, other good men are being wasted—men with ideas and
talents if given a chance to produce. Let’s change our attitude—stop looking at the number of jobs it’s possible to
hold and start thinking in terms of responsibility and of the number of jobs you can do well. Then we
will notice an increased interest, value, and efficiency in Student Government, YMCA, publications, and on down the line.

—SHERRARD RICE.

EDITORIAL STAFF
Terrell Porter, Editor
Jack Abernathy, Editor
Rile Austin, Editor
Jack Holland, Editor
Sam Spencer, Editor
Ovid Bell, Editor
Wales Cox, Editor
Perry Sloan, Associate Editor
Walt Kunz, Staff Photographer

BUSINESS STAFF
Wesley Cosh, Collection Manager
John Tart, Advertising Manager
Andy Turner, Circulation Manager
Terrell Porter, Circulation Manager

From Campus To Campus

Farewell...

A few more days of classes, a brief period of examinations, and then the members of the class of 1938
will step from the commencement platform to return no more as students.

To say that they will be missed is unnecessary at this time, but we who are left may well pause
for a moment's tribute to our departing Seniors and the standards they have set for us. For these men brought
us leadership in many lines of student endeavor—outstanding in athletics, scholarship, publications, and a constructive program of student government, the
loss of such men cannot be lightly turned aside. But for them commencement, as the name signifies, should mean only
a beginning. The transition is that from student to alumnus; once a Davidson man, always a Davidson man. And though
he may never come back to the familiar campus, each is bound to his alma mater with enduring ties. May
their service to the college as alumni equal their leadership as undergraduates!

Leaders, friends, and fellow schoolmates, we salute you! The warm friendships and close associations that you have made possible will
never be forgotten. With every sincere wish for your future success and happiness, we bid you "God-speed" and send you
on your way!

Progressive Step...

As this, the last edition, goes to press and the close of another college year looms large ahead of us,
a vital issue is before the student body. We refer to the proposed point system, which, if passed, will probably
have more direct effect on the campus life at Davidson than anything that has taken place within the last decade
or two.

Elsewhere in the paper are the opinions of several students concerning the matter. They bring out points on both sides
of the case. Fit, by all means, think this thing through and form your own opinion. Don't let somebody else
do your thinking for you. During this year our student body has proved itself to be a competent organization, capable
of clear, independent thinking. The Freshman franchise bill was passed not long ago by an overwhelming majority, yet when a
measure similar to that was proposed two years back, it was voted down. The very fact that we were level-headed
enough to do an about-face and take this progressive step proves that there has grown within us an indefinable something,
perhaps a keener sense of judgment, that makes us better citizens of the campus. So let's use this sense of
judgment that we have developed next Monday morning. Whether we vote for or against, let’s have a reason for what
we do. Don't vote against the proposal just because it looks too complicated to read through or because you think
that a certain officer is being given too many points. There are bound to be many rough edges at first.
The main question that we are voting on is whether or not there should be a point system at Davidson.
In a few years, if passed, the Student Council may have so changed the present draft that it will be
unrecognizable. The point system idea has worked at other colleges and there is no reason why it cannot be a
success at Davidson.

Madison, Wis. — High initiation fees charged by certain college honor and professional societies were condemned here by Dean Joseph
A. Park of Ohio State University at the meeting of the National Association of Deans of Men. Pointing out that
some societies charge as much as $50 for initiation, Dean Park asserted that so far as the special investigation committee
he headed is concerned, “any society in any field charging more than $15 initiation fee will have to demonstrate an
unusual return to the student before being endorsed by the committee.

Another widespread practice is the sale of emblems and insignia at a price which yields a profit far above the
cost of handling, with the purchase of such material insisted upon. Granted that insignia are desirable, they should be sold
at a reasonable price.Price without concealing an important source of income to the national organization,” he maintained.

* * * * *

South Hadley, Mass.—Students of Mount Holyoke, Smith, and Amherst Colleges will soon be doing their library research work with the
aid of a projector reading machine. The libraries of these three colleges are co-operating in the purchase of microfilms of
ancient volumes and important historical records from all parts of the world. At the end of the project's first year,
100,000 filmed pages will be available. The machine for reading these pages is much like a movie projector, but is
of course much more compact and easier to operate.

New York City.—To remove the barriers to a broad liberal education which, as a result of the rigid requirements of
the states, have hampered the training of secondary school teachers, a new five-year program has been organized by Columbia University
and its Teachers College. The new plan, as announced by Dean Herbert E. Hawkes, will provide students with greater opportunity
for the study of the liberal arts, and will enable them to work on a broader front when they enter
the field of secondary school teaching. “Teachers no longer occupy watertight compartments, in which they are restricted to a narrow
field of scholarship,” the dean explained. “Rather, they must be prepared to function in fields other than those of their
greatest interest, and to co-operate in the administration of the school curriculum as a whole.” The new program will bring
into a new relationship the problem of training future teachers in what to teach and how to teach.

* * * * *

The University of Virginia Alumni Association will request that Congress give the University the $3,000,000 fund available as a monument
to Thomas Jefferson for an “educational, living tribute.”

* * * * *

The Order of Military Merit, an ROTC award, was given for the first time at a Massachusetts Institute of Technology
review this month.

* * * * *

The University of Kentucky's band is one of the leading musical organizations to appear in the annual Kentucky Derby parade.

* * * * *

DEAR BILL: With all the agitation now being carried on by advocates of the newly proposed point system, we seem
to have another upheaval right on the eve of its occurrence. But no one has yet given a definite, concrete
argument for the plan. Only opinions, and not facts, have been presented. Under the present setup, Davidson does not need
a point system unless we admit that we have not the ability to elect proper men to offices or that
the men elected have no idea of their own capacities. Following are listed several ideas we might consider before we
make a final decision in our minds about the matter:

1—According to the point system suggested, we would need 43 men to carry out the offices listed and still have
no man with more than his share of points. At present, there are 45 men holding these offices. So does
the point system apportion correctly?

2—Having this system would necessitate starting elections at the beginning of the second semester because of the revoting that would
obviously occur when one man had too many points.

3—The duty of apportioning the offices would fall to the senior members of the student council, already one of the
most overworked groups on the campus.

4—No credit in the system is given to the men who spend their afternoons on the athletic field or in
musical endeavors, but points are imposed for most of the insignificant elective offices.

5—Davidson is a small school without politics. Electing men to office puts confidence into students, confidence in the fact that
they have put a good man into office. These offices should not be controlled by a strict point scale.

6—The system does not take into account the fact that in elections run later in the schedule, all the men
eligible for a particular office might already have their quota of 40 points and thereby leave no man suited for
the job.

7—About ten years ago, Davidson had a point system, but it was abolished when found to be ineffective and not
applicable.

These are a few of the self-evident facts that have come to light since the plan was presented, and they
show the inadequacy and inappropriateness of the proposed system. OUR SCHOOL SHOULD NOT BE REGIMENTED ACCORDING TO A NUMERICAL SYSTEM
OF EVALUATING A MAN'S ABILITIES AND CAPABILITIES.

—ANONYMOUS.

* * * * *

DEAR BILL: I believe the average student is thinking something like the following about the proposed point system, if he
is thinking about it at all: “It sounds pretty good, and I can’t see any great objection to it, but
we’re getting along all right as it is, and there’s no use putting in a lot of rules and regulations
which we don’t need, especially when they're liable to cause a lot of trouble.” That’s a fairly logical position to
take and I have felt that way myself. But after careful consideration of both sides, it seems to me that
there is a need for such a plan and that the benefits would outweigh the disadvantages, which any such system
must possess. The advantages in my opinion are threefold. First, it will make for greater efficiency and usefulness in the
various organizations. Secondly, it will provide greater incentive for work and opportunity for leadership among a large number of students.
And thirdly, it will relieve the pressure on the office holders, allowing them to better do their jobs and keep
up with other work as well. With these benefits in mind and with a little study of the present situation
in many organizations, I believe any man can see his way clear to add his support and his vote to
the cause of the point system.

—HAYWOOD HILT.

* * * * *

DEAR BILL: In consideration of the proposed amendment to the constitution concerning the point system, let us remember that we
are voting for a principle, not for the minor distribution of points as outlined in this amendment. If it be
found that the point evaluation of each office needs changing, there will be no trouble in effecting such a change.
It will probably take a little time before the system will appear to be working in a just manner in
every case, but the principle is just the sort of thing we need here to give each office a man
with the necessary time to do justice to that office. Some will say, “Well, some of the offices listed take
very little time.” That is just the trouble: those offices should be given more time and thus carried out much
more efficiently than they now are. So think about these things as you vote on this proposal and, whichever way
you vote, do so because you believe it will be the best for Davidson in the long run.

—WARREN GAW.

* * * * *

DEAR BILL: Many arguments have been raised for and against the point system during the last few weeks. It seems
to me that those who disagree violently with the principles of the suggested system have entirely too much faith in
human nature. They offer as one main objection that, under the present conditions, “the individual student knows how many offices
he can carry and handle adequately, and will accept or decline honors accordingly.” The latter is definitely not true and
I doubt very much whether students even realize their own capacities, barring occasional exceptions. It’s just human nature to take
all you can get. So let’s put this point system through!

—DICK VOWLES.

* * * * *

FOR SALE — Any Number of 305 choice Hereford Stock Calves and Yearling Steers or Heifers. 108 Cows. All Cattle,
Double-Tested. Write for Prices.

MARTIN MILLER — Batavia, Iowa

* * * * *

JOHNSON’S BARBER SHOP A TRADITION OF DAVIDSON MEN

* * * * *

MORE LETTERS ON PAGE EIGHT
