WEDNESDAY, FEB. 2, 1938 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Three

Student Body Officers To Be Chosen in March

Davidsonian Recognizes Fine Service of Moyer

Senior Has Worked Hard For Four Years in College Alumni Office

The Davidsonian recognizes Ellwood Moyer for his unselfish service to the college in the field of publicity and for his qualities as a true Davidson gentleman.

For four years Ellwood, a member of the senior class, has worked in Davidson's Alumni office and has been a vital factor in giving the college much of its publicity to various papers throughout the state. Ellwood worked as understudy to Crier Martin, former Alumni secretary, during his freshman and sophomore years, and for the past two years he has helped Fred Smith.

Ellwood Moyer

February 7 Chemistry and Physics Frats To Hear Olpin

Dr. Olpin, director of research for the Kendall mill chain, is to deliver a lecture to the Davidson Chemistry and Physics fraternities on Feb. 7 in the chemistry lecture room. His address will be on “The Training of the Industrial Scientist.” This is the same lecture that he delivered by request to the American Physical Society at its meeting at Indianapolis in December.

Leader Named At Ministerial Band Meeting

Elect Wetmore, King, and Ramsey as Officers

Ivan Wetmore was elected president of the Ministerial Band at a meeting held Sunday, January 23, to succeed Andy Wilkerson. He will hold office during the second semester. K. R. King was named vice-president; David McLean secretary and treasurer; and R. W. Ramsey, corresponding secretary.

All Major Student Body Officers to Be Voted on in Spring Elections

The annual spring elections will begin on March 7 and last until approximately April 26 with the installation of student council officers to be held on April 24. The president and officers of the Student Body will be nominated on March 7 to begin the series of elections. The vote on these officers will be held from the 8th through the 10th, or until they are completed. On March 10th nominations for the Y.M.C.A. president will be held and this will be followed by balloting on the 11th, 12th, and 14th.

Dr. Olpin received his Ph.D. at Columbia University, and for 11 years, was associated with the Bell Telephone Laboratories. Five years ago he came to North Carolina to establish a research department for Kendall Mills. In the short time that has ensued he has built up a unique physical laboratory which employs six research workers. His field of research is entirely pioneer work and in due time may well revolutionize some of the textile industry. Since coming to Charlotte, Dr. Olpin has been very active in the Engineers’ Club and has held several important offices in the organization.

Ellwood Moyer

If a passer-by chances to peek into the Alumni offices, nine times out of ten he will see Ellwood “pecking away” at the typewriter.

Good Writer

Ellwood is an especially good writer, specializing in sports writing. He is extremely fond of making up statistical recordings, such as football yardage. He writes for The Charlotte Observer and other prominent Carolina papers, making up for them such lists as those of leading scorers in Southern Conference football and basketball.

The DAVIDSONIAN RECOGNIZES Ellwood Moyer, who has made possible a good part of Davidson's publicity and who has worked untiringly in this field for four years.

WBT Midnight

Bunny Berigan, who has lately been ranked as the outstanding trumpeter in big-time orchestras, will bring his famous swing band to Charlotte for the Mid-Winter dance set, sponsored by the Pan-Hellenic Council on Feb. 11 and 12. With him will be his popular songstress, Gail Reese.

Articles by Dr. Cumming

The following committees were appointed: Executive committee, Ivan Wetmore, R. W. Ramsey, Sherrard Rice, and Watson Street; Program committee, K. R. King and Dave Woodward. A meeting is to be held this Sunday, at which time Dr. Frank H. Caldwell, president of the Louisville Seminary, will lead a discussion upon “Preparation of Deputation Talks.” Dr. Caldwell, it will be remembered, spoke to the Band last year.

The Editor of The Davidsonian will be nominated on the following Tuesday from among the managing editors for this year. Voting for this office will be on March 15, 17, and 18. This will end the elections before the spring holidays, as the student council is anxious to have every member present at the time of voting. After the holidays, which last from the 24th to the 30th, will come nominations for the Athletic Association, followed by the voting on the next three days.

New officers will be inducted at the meeting, called for 2 o'clock in the afternoon. Besides Wilkerson, the retiring officers include Rod Williams, vice president, and R. W. Ramsey, secretary.

Grads Receive Honor Awards

Brandon, Bird Get Fellowships at Seminary

New Officers Are Installed

Eumenean Society Gets Officers For New Semester

Officers for the new semester were inaugurated by the Eumenean Literary Society at the meeting of that body last night. The new officers, who were chosen at the meeting immediately preceding the exam period, are: president, W. W. Rader; vice-president, Sut Robinson; secretary, Dick Kenyon; and critic, Bob Terrell. Sam Webb continues as treasurer, as his term of office will not expire until the end of the next semester. In taking over the presidency from the retiring head, Dick Vowles, Rader addressed a few remarks to the group. He referred to the impressive history of the society.

The freshman nominate their officers on the 2nd, sophomores the 3rd, and juniors the 4th. The voting for these offices begins on April 5th and should require not more than three days. The seniors elect the freshman adviser for next year at a meeting on the 7th and elect this officer on the 8th. Student council nominations for all classes are to be held on the 8th, 9th, and 11th of April, and the vote will be on the four days following the 11th. The editor of the annual will be nominated on April 12 and elected on the 14th. This election is only open to seniors. Scripts and Pranks, the humor magazine, will have its new editor nominated and elected on the 19th and 20th, and the cheerleader will be nominated and elected from the 20th through the 23rd. The installation of officers of the student body will take place on April 24th as prescribed in the constitution.

Fred Smith and Ellwood go to Dancing Party

Fred Smith and Ellwood make up Davidson's “unbeatable sports scribe combination.” During numerous football games, Fred is seen running from press-box to sidelines and back again, always followed closely by Ellwood. Together they may prepare sports stories of one game for as many as five or six different newspapers. Ellwood’s newspaper experience has not been confined, however, to Davidson. His home is in Columbus, Ga. and during the summers there he works keeping the box scores of teams in the Twilight Baseball League. He also does some sports-writing for the Columbus papers.

Active Sportsman

Not only does Ellwood like to write about sports, but he is an active sportsman himself. For three years he has played college baseball, and this spring will mark his final year on the Wildcat diamond. Ellwood is also interested in basketball, and is one of the best intramural basketeers in school. Short and blonde, Ellwood is noted for his quietness and unassuming attitude, and for a cheery smile.

Pleases Many

Davidson Students Enjoy Recorded Program

“This is the Midnight Dancing Party, originating in the studios of WBT in Charlotte, N.C. There's ‘Big Jim’ Armstrong, the pride and joy of Davidson College, over there ready to take your call for any and every recording you would like to hear us play this morning.” At least, that is what the loud-speakers say for many Davidson students who might be called the moon-hop or the scallop-skip between the beds with a book in their hands.

For some time now WBT has entertained college boys and other listeners from Maine to Florida with their daily midnight recording program. From many northern and eastern schools come a perpetual flow of requests via telephone and telegraph for popular recordings to the Charlotte jazz band.

Symphony Gives First Concert In Greensboro

The Davidson College Symphonic Band will give its first concert of the year in Greensboro, February 8. This concert will be given in the Odell Memorial Auditorium of Greensboro College, and will include several numbers played by the band in recent radio broadcasts.

Dr. Cumming, of the English department, has recently had three articles on the early explorations and settlements in the southeast accepted by The American Historical Review, The Journal of Southern History, and The North Carolina Historical Review. Last summer while working on a Southern Grant in aid from the Social Science Research Council, Dr. Cumming made a study of the explorations and settlements and wrote three articles. The first article was “Nathaniel Batts and the Earliest Permanent Settlements in Carolina.” The other two articles deal with a study of strange early geographical ideas, and the identity of Governor John White. Dr. Cumming got his material from a number of different sources. He traveled to all the larger libraries in the eastern part of the United States.

On January 10, two graduates of Davidson College have recently received high honors at Union Theological Seminary in Richmond. D. R. Brandon, of Kannapolis, was awarded the Charles D. Larus fellowship, which entitles him to an additional year of study at the seminary, and Andrew K. Bird, of Washington, D. C., was the recipient of the Walter W. Moore fellowship.

According to an article which appeared in The Charlotte Observer, Davidson with many social activities might be called the moon-hop or the scallop-skip between the beds with a book in their hands.

After installations, the next six days will be given over to fraternity groups.This search for early maps led to a greater interest and activity on the part of the members of the board of control and the Publication Committee. The entire student body votes on these officers except the ones previously specified. Requests from colleges in North Carolina and adjoining states were combined. Of the southern colleges, Davidson, of course, leads the race and would only receive a close second. For several years Mr. Smith has served successfully as a director of the Alexander Graham Junior High School band and orchestra as well as director of the Central High School Symphony Orchestra. Mr. Smith, who is well known to members of the band, will direct only the band while Professor Thane McDonald of the music department will serve as acting director of music. Professor McDonald announces (Continued on Page 6).

Senior Writes Bright Reply

With the approach of their last semester of pre-medical school life, all of the medical students in Davidson have applied to medical schools for admittance, and most have already received notification of their acceptance. The most popular medical school seems to be Duke, with the University of Pennsylvania, Medical College of Virginia, Temple, Medical College of Charleston, Carolina, and Tulane following in that order. Those whose applications to Duke have been accepted include: Marion Bryant, Henry Cutchin, Tom Daniel, John Graham, and James Reinhardt. Those accepted at the University of Pennsylvania are: Jack Lafferty and Bill Kiesewetter. Charlie Moore has to get through School Reinhardt has also applied. Heywood Hill and Doug Neal have been accepted at the Medical College of Virginia in Richmond, while Walter Sawyer and A. L. Ingram have been accepted at Temple. Received by the Medical College of Charleston were the applications of Joe Bailey and Sam Lowe. Howard McFadyen has been accepted at Carolina, and W. P. Bradburn at Tulane.

Fred Smith, alumni secretary, has recently announced that there is a need on the campus for a club to take the place of the one-time Beaver Club. This Beaver Club was organized by Smith when he was in school, and it was made up of boys who were willing to entertain visitors on the campus. Smith pointed out that there was a definite need for such a club now. On such days as the high school football day last fall, which was held on the campus on the day of the Erskine football game here, there was a need for more organized hospitality.

The Dancing Party is getting long-distance calls from every state in the Union these days, so if you get that swingy feeling tonight, remember the number is 4600 from 12:30 'til two. On display at the College Library this week are snapshots and photographs taken during the dress rehearsals for the Centennial Pageant last spring. Prof. Chalmers Davidson, librarian, plans to make a scrapbook later, including all the material connected with the pageant, and would appreciate the contribution of any other pictures which are on the campus. Some twelve or fifteen cameras were in action at the rehearsals, but less than twenty pictures could be found for the collection. These few are the work of Fred Smith, alumni secretary, W. B. Scherer, and John Mawhinney.

One of our well-known seniors, not having prepared his business lesson for January 19, 1938, wrote the following answer to the questions: "What is a severance tax?" and "Why is it levied?" asked by Professor O'Connor. "A severance tax is one levied on the separate parts of Siamese twins after they have been severed. Hence the name, 'severance tax.' It is not levied on most people, since they are not separated from themselves, usually; but in cases, there must be some prohibitive levy to keep the Siamese twin breed from increasing. The levy has never failed of its purpose, to date." Then a personal note was added to the paper which read as follows: "I'm plowing into new low ground on THIS one."

Professor J. S. O'Connor of the business department will not be a member of the Davidson College faculty during the second semester. He received his A.B. degree at the University of Washington and his M.B.A. degree at Harvard. Professor O'Connor was secured to fill the vacancy in the business department while Professor J. P. Williams was on leave of absence.

"You'll Find Warmth and Friendliness At Bridges" College Pharmacy — DAVIDSON'S "SERVICE DRUG STORE"