Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, NOV. 9, 1938

The Davidsonian — Founded By the Class of 1915

1938 Member 1939
Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON AVE. New York, N.Y.
Boston Los Angeles San Francisco Chicago

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879

BILL MARQUESS .......... Editor-in-Chief
JOHN LATIMER .......... Business Manager
Terrell Porter .......... Assistant Editor
Jack Abernathy .......... Managing Editor
Erle Austin .......... Managing Editor
Jack Holland .......... Managing Editor
Karl Hudson .......... Managing Editor
Sam Spencer .......... Managing Editor
Tom Casali .......... Sports Editor
Ovid Bell .......... Associate Editor
Calvin Bryan .......... Associate Editor
AEC Coghill .......... Associate Editor
Perry Sloan .......... Associate Editor
Henry Baker .......... Movie Editor
Walt Kunz .......... Staff Photographer

BUSINESS STAFF
B. B. Plyler .......... Asst. Business Manager
Jim Currie .......... Advertising Manager
Bill Ross .......... Advertising Manager
Julian Long .......... Circulation Manager
Tom Budd .......... Circulation Collection Manager

Homecoming

When we think of Homecoming the first word that pops into our minds is “alumni.” Homecoming might well be called
Alumni Day. All the rest of the days in the college year belong to those who are actively connected with
the college, but this day belongs to the old grads. With this in mind the program for the weekend has
been carefully planned. The main event will be the nineteenth gridiron clash between Davidson’s Wildcats and the powerful V.M.I. Cadet
team. For the past few years Davidson has played her Homecoming games against far superior teams, but this year’s embroglio
should furnish sixty minutes of thrills and excitement. The annual alumni banquet will be held, with opportunities for the alumni
to renew old acquaintances and make new ones. Then the fraternity houses will be open to all after the game.

But where do we, the students, fit into the program? Why, we are the hosts. It is our duty to
help entertain the visitors. We owe an obligation to the alumni, the men who helped to mold and set on
a pinnacle the great institution of which we are a part. As Dr. Lingle very appropriately expressed it in an
editorial on Homecoming last year: “In the book of Exodus we are told that there arose a new King and
a new generation that knew not Joseph. It does not take long for a thing like that to happen to
a college. A fellow graduates. Maybe he is a Phi Beta Kappa, an O.D.K. In a few years he returns
to the College on Homecoming Day, and nobody seems to know him, or ever to have heard of him. He
feels lost and almost wishes he had not come. Everything and everybody have changed so. A new generation has arisen.”

Right there is where we, students and faculty, come in. We are the hosts.

* * * *

To The Gripers

If you are accustomed to reading these columns regularly, you might have been led to believe that we Davidson students
are continually griping about something, whether it be a new rule of the administration or the none too gentlemanly conduct
of our fellow students. And, if you do believe that we are continually griping, you will surely wonder why the
Davidson gentleman is such a time-honored tradition.

We don’t blame you a bit, but it seems to be one of those peculiar quirks that make life interesting.
A short time ago I overheard a member of the senior class who last year was one of these chronic
gripers tell a friend that he had had to see the students from other schools before he was able to
appreciate Davidson. He had spent six weeks in Fort McClellan last summer in the R.O.T.C. Camp where he “rubbed elbows”
with the students from the best colleges of the south. Before that six weeks had passed, he was thoroughly sick
of the whole crew. There is a good lesson in that for every other griper who breathes his wrath upon
the pages of The Davidsonian, for there is an intangible something upon the Davidson campus that makes it unlike any
other and much better. The origin of that something lies in great part on the institutions which so many of
us are prone to criticize. So, before you gripe, count to ten and think it over.—O.H.B.

* * * *

A Call To Arms

Thought the hatchet had been buried by Scripts ’n Pranks and The Davidsonian, but evidently Brother Miller dug it up
again. We were interested to read in the fall issue of the magazine that “Scripts ’n Pranks has set a
definite goal this year and this is it: we will scoop The Davidsonian.” We also notice that below this rash
statement is a joke that Columnist Lawson used in the paper two weeks ago. Furthermore, we thought there would be
a few new jokes in the old mag’ maybe this year, but realized that we were doomed to disappointment as
soon as we perceived one that appeared in The Yowl, its ill-fated predecessor, of May 1, 1936. Lastly, we'd like
to remind Rut that if he wants to continue this feud (which, I hope you will notice, gentle reader, he
started) he is at a decided disadvantage since there are more than seven issues of The Davidsonian to every one
of the magazine.

Campus Comments

Last summer I packed peaches for a few weeks, earning fifteen cents an hour. It was a comparatively new experience
for me, and I enjoyed it because of its novelty; but some of the local boys, who had been at
it for year after year, began to get restless and decided to strike for higher pay. The foreman handled the
situation beautifully, I think. He refused to argue, but told the boys to go back to work or get out.
I feel the boys had a real grievance, but they went about it in the wrong way. They were trying
to force the foreman to pay them higher wages, without ever stopping to realize that he wasn’t the man who
paid the wages at all, and that even if he was he couldn't have met their request without completely destroying
all discipline in the shed.

Without stopping to point out what should be the self-evident application of that incident to our campus, I pass on
to another boy who wanted some changes made and went about them in the right way. Whether you agree with
his policies or not, all you upperclassmen must admit that the student who was the chief supporter of the Freshman
Vote and the Point System last year really got something accomplished. He created plenty of agitation; he saw faculty members
and students both; he wrote constructive letters to the Editor of The Davidsonian; he submitted one of his plans, had
it rejected, worked over it, and submitted it again, until finally he saw it pass successfully. But all of this
agitation was carried on in an orderly, sensible way.

The purpose of my Campus Comment is not merely to blackball demonstrations, hissing in chapel, and the idle hull which
seeks to defame everything and everybody except the speaker’s own pet (and, too frequently, impractical) scheme. I believe there are
a lot of mighty potent, practical suggestions in the minds of some of the students which could be worked and
adopted if brought out in the light. The trouble is that there also seems to be an artificial smoke screen
of misunderstanding which is blotting many of them out. In the spring of each year we elect those officers whom
we want to represent us in various capacities. One boy who, in my opinion, is working very hard and unselfishly
for the good of the campus as a whole is its own Student Body President. Some failed to give him
credit for all he has been trying to do because he failed to work any miracles at the very first.
But I have been pleased to note the ever-increasing respect which is developing for him in chapel. I don’t say
this as a pep talk for Fred, but because I honestly believe that by giving him whole-hearted cooperation, by working
together as a unit under our chosen leader, we will do more for a better Davidson than in any other
way. It doesn’t apply to student government alone. If you don’t like the way the dances are run and have
a better suggestion to offer, don’t say “quack, quack,” but see some member of the Pan-Hellenic Council. If you have
any suggestion for improving the work of the “Y”, see some member of the Cabinet. The old maxim “when in
doubt, kick” has been applied a little too far. Anything is preferable to that—that is, if you really want to
see the campus improved, and don’t just want to shine.

SHERRARD RICE, Pres. of the YMCA.

P.S.—I request Warren Gaw, Freshman Advisor and President of ODK, to write the next Campus Comments.

* * * *

CAMPUS IN CARTOON

PER SNOOPINGS OF B

[FRANK HINKEY, WEIGHING 152 POUNDS, PLAYED AT YALE FOUR YEARS AND IT IS CLAIMED THAT NOT A YARD WAS GAINED
AROUND HIS END]

MINNESOTA'S ALL-AMERICAN FULLBACK IN 1926-27, WAS NEVER THROWN FOR A LOSS IN HIS ENTIRE COLLEGIATE CAREER

CHICAGO WAS THE FIRST TO USE NUMERALS ON UNIFORMS

* * * *

Letters

To Protest Against Touch Football

Dear Bill,

I hope I'm not a sissy, but no doubt many will think so after reading this letter. About this matter
of touch football: it’s just played too hard in Davidson's intramural competition; many of the boys too often are required
to give more than the glory of Rho Omega Tau is worth. This matter of injuries in particular. Of course
it’s not often an arm or leg is broken, but minor hurts, nonetheless, are enough to be aggravating, crippling to
some extent, and interfering with more scholastic duties and thus, if in no other way, to condemn the sport. Of
the nine players on our team in a recent game, at least five ended up with injuries running from sprained
fingers and bruised knees to some rather unmentionables (we lost the game, too)—even now I’m having difficulty typing this letter
because of a sore finger hurt in the game of a week ago. In a curriculum where it's necessary to
use the best of one’s rather ordinary mental facilities without being distracted by the annoying pain of even minor injuries,
it would seem that the strenuous brand of football played here—and its results—is out of place. And if something's not
done to lessen the probability of getting hurt, by gum I'm going to subsidize someone to play for me.

MAYBE I AM A SISSY.

* * * *

Fine Chance For Debaters

Dear Editor:

Davidson men miss one of the best things on the campus each year, when they fail to go out for
debating. With the honor of being a varsityDebater goes the finest trip that any college organization can offer. Ten days
and two thousand miles of country, plus four debates on the road are just too much for a man to
pass up without a fight.

Pitt’s Defeat Heads Upset
Carnegie Tech Breaks 22-Game Winning Streak

Pittsburgh's supposedly unbeatable Panthers were downed by Carnegie Tech in last week's major gridiron upset, it being Pitt's first loss
in twenty-three starts and her first defeat at the hands of the Techs in ten years. Southern California complicated the
Rose Bowl situation by licking the University of California 13-7. The Golden Bears had been heavy favorites to cop Pacific
Coast conference honors and again to represent the west in the New Year’s classic. Rutgers won over Princeton for the
first time since their series started in 1869, when fifty bewhiskered young gentlemen representing the two institutions met in one
of the first intercollegiate contests played in America. Purdue’s conquest of Ohio State marked that institution’s first win over the
Buckeyes in 19 years. In fact, the Boilermakers had not previously scored during the long rivalry.

The Editor

The tryouts will be held at the end of this month. There is plenty of time to work up a
good five-minute talk on the subject, for which literature can be found at a special table at the library. Nearly
all of us entertain ideas that we could debate if we had the urge. If that is the case, the
only logical thing to do is to go out and take a shot at the prize. If you feel that
you don’t have a chance because there are too many of last year’s men on the lists, you should still
try out; you will find out how to make a tryout speech that will win in future trials. Let’s start
the season out with a large number of entries in the try-outs.

Member of the Forensic Council.

Support The Band

Dear Bill:

Let's take this time out to take our hats off to the band. Those fellows work hard—practice—drills—playing the dates at
games—bad seats—all these make up a life at the football games. Yet we boo them, criticize them, make fun of
them; and we never give them credit for the good, hard job they are doing. When the band made that
series of cleverly executed mistakes, obviously and beautifully done, everybody—always ready to kick—jumped on the band. The band has put
on a fine show this fall, and each member deserves credit for his work. It makes me mad to see
a student sit up in the stands, on a nice comfortable blanket, with his arm around his date, and be
a “Grandstand-Bandleader.” It is just bad taste. Let’s support the band.

Yours,
DISGUSTED.

Field goals proved to be the slender margin of victory for Alabama, Rice, and Southern Methodist over Tulane, Arkansas, and
Texas A. and M., respectively. The latter two triumphs came with less than half a minute to play. The Praying
Colonels of Centre College beat Washington and Lee’s Generals 7-0, in what was a startling though not a major southern
upset.

Cat-V. M. I. Result Year Davidson V.M.I.
1904 18 0
1905 0 43
1907 16 8
1909 3 0
1917 0 33
1919 0 16
1926 8 8
1927 0 0
1928 0 0
1929 0 0
1930 0 0
1931 0 0
1932 0 0
1933 0 0
1934 0 0
1935 0 0
1936 0 0
1937 0 0

By KEN LAWSON

Girls, girls, beautiful girls, pouring onto the campus by the busload while eager boys stood by Saturday, some knowing they
had a campus cutie while others were hoping and praying they would come through in a big way on their
blind dates. It's always a thrilling sight to see young ladies riding up to Chambers Building in the big blue
buses, but when they turn out to be of the pulchritudinous nature of the Salem lassies, then they are the
tops.

Thanks to the Athletic Association for settling the football ticket situation in favor of the students. Since the stadium has
not been really full this year, there was really no need to charge full price for students’ dates; we are
glad the Association realized this. As long as the interests of the student body are considered in this manner, we
are sure they will receive the full cooperation and support of every boy in school. We cannot say as much,
however, for the exorbitant punitive fine placed upon several students because of the demonstration for cheaper tickets. It was plainly
punitive for the damage was negligible in comparison to fifty dollars. Since these tickets are of importance only between the
Athletic Association and the students, we can see no reason for such strict action in a case involving an activity
of the students and supposedly for them—football. It makes us call to mind headlines about Hitler's demands.

Speaking of Phi Delts, we wonder where the “e” came from in Lud Ludlam’s name and why he offers to
set this columnist up on Mondays. Also, we have a very authentic report that Miller Sproull was moved by the
spirit at a very inopportune moment as far as Bob Reinhardt was concerned.

Campus chatter: “Bustle” Holland attempting to make dance innovations at Salem—Julian Squires needing a self-starter Saturday night to make him
leave—Norman Stevenson thinking about changing to Copeland's boarding house—Those good fountain “cokes” that can now be obtained at local drug
stores on Sunday afternoons—Walt Heilman and Harry Suttenfield working out a sax duet of “If I Had the Wings of
an Angel;” the above number also to be for Mark Lillard, Reid Harmon, and Ad Long—New rumors after the dance
weekend still linking the names of Jim Anderson and Lillian Kilgore.

I almost forgot to mention that the wedding bells pealed once more last week in Concord when Ned Morris became
a candidate for Campus Henpecked Husband's club. Congratulations and best wishes to the happy couple.

Questions of the week: How did Charlie Sherman and Rea Tenney get their black eyes? We prefer Charlie’s story. Also,
what pool did Frank Caldwell win Saturday? We suggest that One-foot-line-McClellan go on a spinach diet this week so a
certain young lady won't have her comment about Bill Davis to make again.

Rea Tenney, number one seeded tennis star, advanced to the semi-finals last week when he beat George Jones in a
close match by the score 6-3, 3-6, 6-4. Jones had previously defeated Ed Cloyd to enter the quarter-finals in the
same bracket with Dick Shore, who had previously beaten Lock Hunter. Miller Hamilton won over Jim Owens to enter the
quarter-finals. Bill Sproull won over Bobby Carter 6-3, 3-6, 6-0 to enter the semi-finals of the Freshman tournament, but was
later beaten by Wilson Coker, who had previously beaten Davis Thomas. John Crichton beat John Talmadge 6-3, 8-6 thereby entering
the semi-finals along in the same bracket with Ed Lucas. Lucas defeated Charlie Alleott 6-4, 6-8, 7-5, in a thrilling
match. The winner of the Lucas-Crichton match will play Coker in the finals.

If you have made your own bed, don’t grumble about the lumps in the mattress.

Aim high, but don’t stop shooting just because you missed the first few shots.

Nothing will develop latent wickedness in a man faster than being watched.

So long as that which might have been isn't, why worry your head about it?

The world may be growing better but locksmiths keep right on making locks.

In the Groove
TOM PERRIN

CONFUSION ... Whatever you say about the last edition of “The Davidsonian,” it will always be Number for us. Things
just seem to have gone haywire; but maybe we're biased. You may have noted that Ken Lawson got the credit
and blame, respectively, for both his column and this. That particular faux pas had us both politely offering to go
down to the shower room and commit hara-kiri—only, to stop to a Scripts ’n Pranks quip, we didn’t have the
guts.

CONGRATULATIONS

All things considered, we'll have to congratulate Mr. Miller who edits ‘Scripts ’n Pranks” on his product. It is thicker
and more impressive-looking than any of its predecessors that we can recall. The Ed. wields a clever pair of scissors,
and the stories are above average. Personally, we thought Ella's article was pretty Keene. Not such a pun, Butch Steel
it’s the best we could do.

COMEHOMING ... If you are the forward-looking type you probably realize that this Saturday is Homecoming. It won't seem quite
the same without dances (except a fraternity private affair or two), but there ought to be plenty to shout about
anyway. There'll be a holiday, decorations, crowds, and a good ball game—to sum up with an inevitable word, Color. Word
comes from the local concessionaires; by the way, that this’ll have to be a big day to make them happy.
It has been a lean season for them—only the Carolina game was worth the trouble.

OVERHEARD ... Why, he’s so dumb he thinks a punch bowl is a place where they stage prize fights.

JANITOR’S DEAN ... Most of the alumni who return will probably want to see one Enoch Donaldson. Enoch, in case
the full name fooled you, is the senior janitor, now operating in Chambers Building. There won't be many returning whose
times Enoch can’t recall. He has been here so long he is a bit uncertain about the number of years
himself. But he helped build Rumple, and declares it was he who carried the last round of bricks for the
final chimney of Georgia; Both these buildings went up shortly after the turn of the century, if we know our
Davidson history. Once janitor in the dormitories, Enoch tired of that job years ago and now works primarily for a
couple of science professors. Last year he gained much publicity by teaming with a lizard to predict the outcome of
Davidson grid battles. Results seemed to indicate he was carried away with partisanship.

BARD ... Some understandably pusillanimous creature laid the following little limerick on our desk while our back was turned yesterday.
We can’t resist the temptation to print it, chiefly because of its sterling sentiments, but also because it fills this
column nicely. And so with abject apologies to all the muses concerned for aiding and abetting the anonymous author, here
it is:

There once was a guy from V.M.I.
Who thought Wildcats were creatures quite docile.
But came the big game—
Rats are easy to tame,
Says Felix with smiles most colossal.
