“all athletes to eat together at the

WEDNESDAY, NOV. 16, 1938

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Page Five

Question of the Week

The Athletic Association has recently passed the rule that all men out for a team must eat at the training table. This has aroused and provoked quite a bit of discussion. A few ideas follow on: “Should Athletic Association Require All Men Out For Any Sport To Eat At The Training Table?”

Johnny Tice, Senior: “I am against any such movement. It hurts the present boarding house system. Merely eating at the training table does not affect the athlete’s training, since it’s not what you eat, but how you eat. From what I’ve seen the food is better at the individual boarding houses.”

Jimmy Cooper, Junior: “No. If having all athletes eating together would improve team spirit, I'd be all for having this rule. But ask the man who will be forced to leave his regular boarding house, and you will find many of them dissatisfied with the fee set-up; several definitely opposed to leaving that they have considered dropping their sport. Many fraternity men would miss being with their fraternity brothers at meal time. Some who have part-time jobs would be ‘out of luck.’ The food is no better. The individual boarding houses with three or four more leaving would be seriously handicapped, as they have already. I’m satisfied with things ‘as is’.”

Bill Telford, Senior: “I am against the compulsion of athletes eating at the training table, to cut corners because the food is poorer than at the boarding houses. Many boys have jobs at their boarding houses or are in line for one which they would lose if compelled to eat at a training table. The fraternity boarding houses give jobs to their athletes with the understanding that their boys will not be compelled to leave. The individual boarding house ladies and their managers and waiters would in many cases be severely hurt by the desertion of half a dozen boys to the training table.”

Tom Galbreath, Sophomore: “Yes, I think it’s a good idea for all athletes to eat at the training table. By doing so they get the proper and necessary foods to build up and maintain their strength and stamina. Here their diet is watched for them, and they don't have to worry about choosing only those things which they should eat. Such a system should get the hearty cooperation of all athletes.”

Tom McAlpine, Junior: “If this system is adopted permanently it will seriously hurt the other boarding houses. A lot of boys who are not sure of making the team wouldn’t even go out if they had to forfeit eating with their fraternity brothers. The Athletic Association does not have a right to force the boys to eat at the training table unless the boys are given scholarships, or board at a reduced rate. All those who have half-time jobs at their present boarding houses would have to pay the straight monthly board and thus lose $12.50 per month.”

Bob Doty, Junior: “All of the fraternities have their own boarding houses, and since the fraternity members do not live together, the boarding houses are one of the most important factors in maintaining the close relation which should exist between fraternity brothers. If a student is forced to eat at the training table he loses one of his greatest assets as a fraternity member, that of cementing his most personal and closest friendships by daily intercourse with those friends.”

Bob Scarborough, Junior: “Yes, I think it is a good idea for all participants in varsity and freshman sports to be required to eat at the training table. For here their diet is watched which is of vital importance in maintaining a good physical condition. Also, close companionship among teammates brings about a stronger spirit and reliance upon one another.”

All men may be born equal—but they soon get over it.

Glee Club’s '38 Program Is Revealed

McDonald Announces Four Concerts To Be Held Here And Charlotte

Offering two home programs and two in Charlotte, the fall schedule of the Davidson College Glee Club has been announced by Mr. Thane McDonald, director. Next Sunday, November 20, the Glee Club will participate, with the Little Symphony band, in a joint Vespers service, singing three numbers. The first is: “Bless The Lord, O My Soul,” Ivanoff; the second, “It Is The Lord's Own Day,” Kreutzer; and the last number will be “The Creation,” by Richter. On November 23, the club will sing at the noon luncheon of the Good Fellows Club. On Monday, November 28, they will sing at the Second Presbyterian Church in Charlotte, where there is to be held a Presbyterian A. R. P. rally. Then, the following Wednesday at 8:15 P. M. the Glee Club presents its regular fall concert in Chambers Auditorium. In addition to the Glee Club and quartet there will be presented three solos by Mr. Franklin Riker, voice instructor in the school. He will be accompanied by Mrs. James Pfohl. The Glee Club has several trips planned for the spring, but a definite schedule has not been made out.

Sigma Upsilon Hears Papers

Initiatory Articles Feature Tuesday’s Meeting

On last Tuesday night, November 8, the members of the Sigma Upsilon fraternity held their regular semi-monthly meeting at the Phi Gam House. The program was opened by the reading of an initiatory paper by Tom Perrin called “The Difficulty of Writing a Paper.” In this paper Perrin pointed out how difficult it is to choose a subject upon which to write, and he showed the hardships in writing after a subject was selected. Following Tom Perrin was Gene Liipfert, who read an initiatory offering of two short papers which he called “Fantasy.” The subjects of Liipfert’s papers were only dreams that the author had experienced, but they were presented in very graphic form, the emphasis being placed on the wording of the selection. Rut Miller then presented an account, in story form, of an experience that he had had while vacationing on the New England coast several years ago. After the program was presented, business was discussed. Bob Ramsey was elected steward of the group to take the place of Jack Holland. Jack Holland was elected treasurer in the place of Sam Spencer, who recently resigned this office. Ed Morrow, head of the program committee, then presented the arrangement for the programs for the remaining meetings of the year. Each program is to have four main parts. At each meeting some member will be assigned an essay, another a short story, another a book report or some original poetic offering, and a fourth will be chosen to write a chapter in the novel which the chapter is writing. This novel deals with the life story of a boy going through Davidson College.

Plenty of people have a good aim in life, but a lot of them don’t pull the trigger.

She Made Broadway

Patriotic Medley Ends

Miss Kalista Hood, daughter of Dr. and Mrs. Frazier Hood, who took part in the Red and Black Masquers in their productions, has completed two years on the New York stage and has appeared in many Shakespearian productions such as “As You Like It,” “Macbeth,” “Merchant of Venice,” and “The Tempest.” Besides these well-known plays she has had parts in “Cavalcade,” “This Thing Called Love,” and Gilbert and Sullivan’s first play “Palace of Truth.”

Kalista Hood Reviews Her Career On Stage

Everyone has seen that slim, attractive, brunette young lady riding around the Davidson campus in a black Dodge coupe. To those of you who haven’t inquired as to who she is, that’s Kalista Hood, the daughter of Dr. and Mrs. Frazier Hood. She is the graceful girl who took the part of Mary in the Red and Black Masquers production “The Man in the Bowler Hat,” and Josephine Paris in “The Valiant.” Now you all remember her.

The lure of the stage beckoned her first in 1934 when she attended the Jesse Bonstelle school in New York. There Katherine Cornell got her start, and there is where Kalista first commenced her career that was later to find fulfillment on the stage in New York City. She worked for two years at this dramatic school, later working at a summer theater in Schenectady, N. Y. UnderUnder the direction of Sir Percival Vivian, who was knighted by George V of England, she studied Shakespeare. At the summer theater, she took turns doing all the jobs that a theater can require, such as designing, acting, working lights, coaching, and acting as assistant stage manager. As soon as the summer work was over, Kalista went, as do all other aspirants of the stage, to New York to look for a job. “Tramping the streets,” she said, “with those cold wintry blasts whipping right through you, wasn’t so much fun. And the big disappointment when I received a call for a part in ‘Having a Wonderful Time’ when I was out looking for a job; so I missed that chance.”

Christmas found Kalista at home with her parents, but she didn't stay for long. In fact, the very night I got to New York, Percy called and said that he had a part for me in ‘This Thing Called Love.’ All that year she worked with that company, sometimes giving Shakespearean productions and at other times modern plays. “They put on alternately,” she said, “one time it would be ‘Macbeth,’ and the next week ‘Six Cylinder Love.’”

[Continued on Page Six]

J. O. JONES, Inc.
Fifty years ago, Hart-Schaffner & Marx began making fine clothes. They have been making them ever since. STOP IN AT J. O. JONES AND SAY: “Show me one of the fine H. S. & M. suits you have been advertising” $35.00 to $40.00.

Mrs. Frazier Hood, who has been aiding the Red and Black, says that the life of an actress is not easy.

MEET HELD BY ACTORS
[Continued from Page One]

Members of the Masquers. At the Monday night meeting, new memberships were discussed. This competition, established in memory of the Dramatic Publishing Company founder, offers a prize of $500 for the best one-act comedy on contemporary American life. The “Char-Play Contest” has been very well received by the Council, and bids will be issued.

Armistice Day Concert Program Features Tribute To Banner, Cornet Virtuoso

Reaching its climax in a medley of martial airs and featuring an Armistice Day theme, the Davidson Symphonic Band’s annual Homecoming concert was presented before a large audience Thursday night. The first half of the program, launched by the profound strains of a Bach chorale, featured Leonard Moretta, guest artist, in three cornet solos. Combining rare depth of interpretation with scintillating technique, Mr. Moretta held his audience enthralled. “Songs of Jayou,” the second portion of the program, was played with great gusto, as was the humorous variation on “Pop Goes the Weasel.” The Strauss waltzes were also played with warmth and liveliness.

In a secret meeting last Wednesday night in the Social Center, plans for a big Homecoming weekend were made concerning a square dance. A coaching class in the art of square dance was given Thursday night for the benefit of those who had never participated in that form of dance, and all members were acquainted with it by Saturday night, the night of the dance. The dance was held at the Legion hut near Caldwell Station. The Pan Hecks reached this hut by means of a hay ride on an open truck. The first half hour of the dance was carried out in lamplight due to the fact that the truck ran into the power line and demolished it. Electricians, however, fixed it, and the remainder of the dance took place in full light. Figures were called by Professor Fulcher and Ivan Wetmore. Refreshments consisted of sandwiches and punch.

Guests of the Pan Hecks were Prof. and Mrs. H. E. Fulcher, Mr. and Mrs. Hayes, guests of the Fulchers, Mr. and Mrs. A. H. Whittle, Dr. and Mrs. B. Schenck, and Dr. and Mrs. A. V. Goldiere.

QUESTION FOR DEBATE
[Continued from Page One]

Thompson, Bill Loftin, George Milne, Tom Fry, Chal Vinson, Sherwood Rice, and Frank Barker. Some of the subjects include oratory, harangue, extemporaneous, and debate.

SCHOOL OF MEDICINE
DURHAM, N. C.

Four terms of eleven weeks are given each year. These may be taken consecutively (graduation in three and one-quarter years) or three terms may be taken each year (graduation in four years). The entrance requirements are intelligence, character, and three years of college work, including the subjects specified for Class A medical schools. Catalogues and application forms may be obtained from the Admission Committee.

DUKE UNIVERSITY

TODAY ONLY! IN PERSON!
FRANK DAILEY And His Stop & Go Swing Band
—With—
BARBARA BUSH
DAILEY DANDIES

STARTING THURSDAY
GRIDIRON GRAPPLERS
CAMPUS CUTIES
Football as you have never seen it played before!
“SWING THAT CHEER”
—With—
TOM BROWN
ANDY DEVINE
CONSTANCE MOORE

J. O. JONES, Inc.
All Next Week
2 For 1 Sale
College Pharmacy

MONDAY ONLY! IN PERSON!
America’s Leading Song Stylist Singing Your Favorite Tunes!
GENE AUSTIN
—With—
COCO JOAN

The screen first feature “SONGS and SADDLES”

4 Performances Only!
CANDY BROOKS

GO BY GREYHOUND
Low Round-Trip Fares

When you start the annual pilgrimage home to get a good square meal (we presume you're not immune to the charms of a home-cooked drumstick!) remember the sage advice of the Puritan Fathers... “Always travel by Greyhound and save your money for a rainy day or a really swell party!” You can manage the whole out-of-town weekend for a little more than you'd spend hanging around the college. The trip, at Greyhound’s low fares, costs less than half as much as driving a car... even a pre-Mayflower model!

WINSTON-SALEM $2.25
GREENSBORO 2.70
RICHMOND, VA. 8.85
ROANOKE, VA. 5.85
COLUMBIA, S.C. 4.45
GREENVILLE, S.C. 3.90
SPARTANBURG, S.C. 3.10
RALEIGH, N.C. 5.25
ATLANTA, GA. 8.10
CHATTANOOGA, TENN. 8.50
ASHEVILLE 4.70
WILMINGTON 6.50

GREYHOUND TERMINAL
C. S. GOODRUM, Agent
Phone 211

THE PEACH: ECONOMY BUYING NOW A DAVIDSON TRADITION

BROADWAY SOUTHERN 5 & 10¢ STORE
Davidson, N. C.

Cars for Rent
M. P. Henderson
DAVIDSON, N. C.
GULF GAS & OIL