Lincolnton In WEDNESDAY, APRIL 6, 1938. By NEAL SCOTT Charlotte Team Pounds Out has definitely baseball sons successfully terda Davidson's
Spring athletic } sin full swing. And it] "Je ie Ste mre wwecatt Lp Harrison hat ere e fall and
winter ones ihe tennis team cotornet CO ps Crown with Bena mat ty st Winner Has 261 Points to Cop
: Blea doo 1938 Medal e1gnt ct t dcecieabsiansatatletihas against some of the “Tip” Harrison walked — off tion in
the with the gym competition during the past eight weeks by gathering a total of 261 points. He won over
a large field of contestants striving for the prized trophy which is given each year to the man with the
largest number of total points in the annual competition.

Began in February

The various events began early in February and have continued through last week. Pete Whittle and Harrison had charge of
the meet. This year’s edition of the Wildcat Freshman Nine Defeats Wildcats To Packing Company; Verner Socks Homer Ten Hits
Off Three Davidson Pitchers For 7-5 Victory — Wildcat Lineup Studded With Sophomores Opener Davidson 8S THE DAVIDSONIAN e Game
Portside Tosser The Lance Packing Co. of Charlotte handed the 1938 edition of the Wildcat Varsity Baseball team their first
defeat on Tuesday, March 29 as three Davidson pitchers gave up ten hits and seven runs while their mates were
pushing across five runs on seven hits. Hugh Verner, outfielder, got off to a flying start in his sophomore college
baseball career as he poled out a homer on the third pitched ball in the first inning. Davidson scored no
more that inning and held the one-run lead only temporarily. Lance got to Steere for two runs in the second
frame and went on into the lead that they never relinquished. Eddie Steere, “Dizzy Dave” Hicks, and McClain handled the
mound duties for the Cats. Steere was the starting pitcher. Steere led the hickory bending exercises for Davidson as he
banged out a single and a triple in two official times at bat. Hicks also had an extra blow, a
double. Mulligan, Lance's second baseman, garnered two hits out of three times at the plate. Five sophomores made their debuts
on the varsity diamond. Verner in the outfield, Dunford at first, Hunter at second, Fitzgerald at short, and McClain on
the mound. Some of these will probably be in the regular lineup.

Cat Linksmen Return With Successful Record

Davidson's fine golf team ended their spring holiday campaign with a record of three wins in five starts. This brings
their record for the season to four wins and two defeats. Maples Shines The golf team is also enjoying a
successful season, having won four and lost two. With Captain Henson Maples and Ray Pittman winning consistently and the two
Sophomore members, Jimmie Cooper and Charlie Pegram, rapidly improving as they acquire varsity experience, the team should make a good
showing in the Southern Conference tournament week after next. Although the competition was rugged against Lin John Templeton and the
first aggregation, the development of Holt, senior, won it in his freshman year and hence has been eligible since. One
of the stipulations in the rules is that no man can receive the cup who has won it previously. There
is a possible 300 points in all, but each event is counted by a different method. In most of the
past years, the competition has been won by the gym instructors and this year has been no exception.

Returning from a very successful trip to Florida where they easily copped the Florida A. A. U. meet, setting several
new records, Duke’s crack team is undoubtedly the team to beat in the conference this year. Though boasting some of
the best middle-distance men in the south, Carolina doesn’t have the sprint and field men that she usually has, and
consequently, doesn’t seem to be the conference threat that she usually is. With Charlie Sample looming as a possible conference
champion in the pole vault, provided his present injury comes around all right, with Bailey Williams a possible conference winner,
and a well-balanced supporting team, it’s possible that Coach Pete Whittle’s Wildcats will be the team in there fighting it
out with the Blue Devils for the conference crown.

Rambling Note

There's go- Charlotte High School on April 5—High Point High, here. April 6—Charlotte High, here. April 18—High Point High, there.
April 19—Raleigh High, there. April 20—Carolina Frosh, there. April 22—Winston High, there. April 27—N. C. State frosh, here. April 28—Carolina
frosh, here. 30th Davidson and Monroe kicker himself were dealt a mean blow when the popular hurdler pulled a knee
muscle that has kept him off the track for the week. Chet Chapman is regarded as one of the past
is reported to be head- for big league umpiring. In Trial Round

The seniors and juniors ended in a two-way tie for top honors in the interclass volleyball tournament, each team having
one defeat charged to them. The sophomores defeated the frosh to continue their hot race with the seniors for second
position in the class standings. The final game between the juniors and seniors was one of the most exciting contests
ever held at Davidson. The seniors appeared to have the championship well in hand when they took the first game,
but the juniors rallied to take the next two and avenge an earlier defeat. Frat TourneyThe ‘Gators shot a sub-par
69 to lead the field. Despite a fine round, Captain Maples of the Cats lost their matches, taking both of
two points. Pittman and Pegram captured top honors in their foursome for Davidson. However, the Kappa Sigs duplicated this a
few moments later, and as the paper goes to press, the two are tied for the lead with two victories
and no defeats.

Outstanding triumph of the tour was registered over the powerful University of Georgia team, 9 1-2 to 8 1-2. Captain
Maples and Cooper captured their foursome with a victory and a defeat apiece, defeating Hampden-Sydney. Again, Maples was low with
a 74, capturing three points and, together with Cooper, winning three on the best ball score. Pittman and Pegram each
captured two points and took two in best ball score.

The Phi Gams are in third place with a single victory and no defeats. The SAE’s showed improved form to
down the Betas in two 21-13 games. The Phi Delts broke into the win column with a decision over the
Pi Kappa Phis, winning 21-1 and 21-11. The Kappa Sigs continued their good play to defeat the Kappa Alphas and
end play for the day.

The League of American Writers is offering $1,000 in prizes to college students for essays on the Spanish conflict.

Monday afternoon saw the Pikas register an outstanding victory over the Sig Eps, winning the first game 21-7 and the
second score 21-18. Three frats, the SAE’s, SPE’s, and the Phi Delts, are tied for fourth position with one victory
to their credit. The golfers closed the tour by returning to Charlotte and decisively defeating the Lively 14-4.

Frosh Engage Wofford Team
Wildkittens to Journey to Spartanburg to Meet Wofford Frosh

Davidson's Kitten baseball nine opened the season here last Monday with an impressive 7-6 win over Lincolnton High School. The
yearlings scored their winning run in the last inning on a beautiful “squeeze play” in which Edmondson crossed the plate
after Niven had bunted down the first base line. Lincolnton forged ahead early in the game by some heavy hitting
in the clutches. Auten, the first man up in the second inning, got a hit and advanced to third where
he was walked in by Reinhardt. In the next inning, Jenkins took a free pass to first and scored on
Auten’s second hit of the day. Auten scored on his one base hit over second.

In the seventh inning, the Lincolnton boys again scored after Auten hit his second double of the day and crossed
the plate on another two-bagger by Kale. They ended their scoring in the next frame when Toby walked and was
brought home by Rudisill, who hit the only home run of the day. The Kittens scored in the first inning
after Montgomery got on a fielder’s choice and stole second. He was brought home by Edmondson, who singled down the
third base line. Montgomery again scored in the fifth inning, after he again stole second, on a single by Hogg.
This ended the Kittens’ scoring until the 8th frame, when Ratchford, Williams, and Dale got on and McClesky brought the
first two home with another single. The ninth inning proved to be fatal for the high school lads after they
had led most of the way. Hogg beat out an infield hit and was brought home on a long double
by Edmondson. This set the stage for the “Frank Merriwell” finish with Niven and Baar playing the parts.

Edmondson, catcher, looked good for the Kittens as he got three hits out of five trips to the plate. He
also drove in three runs and scored one himself. Dale and Reinhardt also showed some classy pitching form and between
them, the Lincolnton boys got only eight hits. Montgomery showed nice form in the field and also in base-running.

Davidson Racketeers Win On Southern Trip
Crack Cat Net Team Defeats Opponents During Holiday Tour

Davidson's crack tennis team completed its annual spring trip with a record of six wins in seven starts. This gives
them a record of seven wins and one defeat so far this season. The Cat racket wielders opened the trip
by shellacking the strong Presbyterian College team 5-2. Davidson captured four singles and one doubles match. In their second match,
the Wildcats defeated the University of S. C., 7-2, capturing five singles and two doubles tests. Continuing their fine play,
the Cats took another South Carolina foe into camp, this time white-washing Furman University, 7-0. The Davidsons did not drop
a set in their complete triumph.

After winning four singles matches and virtually sewing up the match, the Wildcats faltered in doubles, losing all three matches
and dropping a 4-5 decision to Emory University. The match was played in a high wind.

Bounce Back
On the next day, the Wildcats bounced back into the win column against another Georgia team, defeating Mercer 8-1. This
time Davidson took all three doubles matches and five singles. The Wildcats opened their Florida invasion by trouncing Stetson, 8-1.
Again, the home team was able to capture only one singles match. Friday afternoon, the Davidson netters ended their successful
tour by capturing all nine matches from Rollins, thus white-washing their foes.

During the course of the matches, Tenney, Kenney, and Frampton alternated at the number one position, with Reinhardt, Jones, and
Northcross completing the team. Manager Feuchtenberger took Northcross’ place at number six in a few of the matches.

Undefeated
Frampton, Rea, and “Ras” Reinhardt were undefeated in singles for the tour. At present, Captain Harry Tenney and the entire
Cat netters look to be one of the best teams ever to represent Davidson on the courts. They are now
shooting at the fine record compiled by last year’s team who dropped only four meets during the entire schedule. Three
members of last year’s team are again playing this year. The next match of the season finds the Elon team
on the Davidson courts.

JONES SPEAKS
(Continued from Page 3)
The convention is Branch Rickey, who is treasurer of the St. Louis Cardinals baseball team. The rest of the program
was under the direction of Marion Cole and Sobby Davis. The club discussed “Getting a Summer Job.”

Goes hand-in-hand with good things to eat, we—tso-s3 Keen appetite and tasty food! Could anybody ask for more? Yes... that
tingling, delicious taste of ice-cold Coca-Cola, the pause that refreshes.

Reminiscent of the troublous ‘20s, the fiery cross is burning again—this time on the lawn of a fraternity at Hope
College, Holland, Mich.

“Drugs” A Complete Drug Store “Prescriptions” FAUL & CRYMES, Inc. - - Sporting Goods - - Charlotte, N. C.

The warm spring sunshine certainly emphasizes Davidson’s crying need of a swimming pool... A happy combination of fine weather and
expert attention has put both the diamond and the track in perfect shape this week... Graham Gammon, former Carolina track
star and sports writer for the Charlotte News, has been working out on the Davidson track, turning in excellent times
and breaking a school record nearly every time he runs. Henson Maples shot a 69.
