Page Eight THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, MARCH 23, 1938.

Your Film Report Card By HENRY B. BAKER

The quality of each picture is determined by the number of stars—more stars mean a better picture.

Thursday & Friday, March 24-25
★★ 1-2
“REBECCA OF SUNNYBROOK FARM” — Shirley Temple, Randolph Scott, Jack Haley, and Gloria Stuart. The well-known story of Rebecca Randall,
the little girl who knows little besides work and privation among those who are unreasonable toward her.

Saturday, March 26
★★★
“BORN TO THE WEST” — John Wayne, Marsha Hunt, and John Mack Brown. A Zane Grey story that shows the
wild and woolly West just as you used to enjoy it years ago.

Monday-Tuesday, March 28-29
★★★★
“THE HURRICANE” — Dorothy Lamour, John Hale, and Mary Astor. There is no doubt about this being a top-rate production.
The scene of the hurricane as it sweeps over the South Sea island is thrilling.

Wednesday, March 30
There will be no showings on this day. The next pictures during the week will be “Call of the Yukon,”
“Vogues of 1938,” and “Flash Gordon’s Trip to Mars,” which will begin on Thursday, April 1.

PHILHARMONIC ORCHESTRA (Continued from Page 1)
Pictured above is Fred Waring’s famed band, the Pennsylvanians, which is appearing in several performances at the Carolina in Charlotte
today only, featuring such favorites as Johnny Davis, Poley McClintock, Donna Dae, and others. Left inset is Waring himself.

Short Stories, Poems, and Feminine Opinion Presented in Magazine
Dedicated to “Dolls, Dames, and Damsels,” the Chicken Issue of “Scripts ’n Pranks,” Sam Ryburn’s latest brainchild, was found in
the post office boxes Monday night. Sam set the pace with editorials and poems full of impressive synonyms, rivaling even
those of the “Kang.” Vowles, Chal Vinson, and Chubby King each presented a short story, and Eldridge Brown a humorous
essay. “Notes to You” tells the latest in the music world. Any dissension from this article is to be directed
at its authors, Dick Vowles and Walt Heilman. E. T. Liipfert had one of the best articles.

Rare Stamps Divided Into Charity, Commemorative, Air Mail Groups
Major C. L. Steel, professor in the local ROTC dept., has an interesting collection of stamps. When he was in
the wilds of Panama in 1926, he came to the United States with his general collection, but since this field
was too large, he decided to narrow it down to three special groups: charity, commemorative, and air mail. Among his
stamps are some beautiful and historical specimens.

Film Is Given
“Wings Over the Southern Cross” was the title of a three-reel, sound film shown by the Student Volunteers at a
joint meeting of the Young People’s League of Davidson and the Student Volunteer Association in the banquet hall of Chambers
last Sunday evening, March 20.

Introduced By Gammon
Dr. Gammon introduced the picture, a travelogue of Central and South America. This movie, which depicts mission life in Latin
America, was made into a “sound picture” through the use of the college’s public address system. Dave Gammon and Archer
Torrey were the commentators. The contributions of the evening will be used, it was said, to present more of these
pictures in the future. Sid Crane was the pianist and Ivan Wetmore closed the program with a prayer.

Truth, Like Honesty, Pays in This Case
Two men students at the University of Alabama have learned that truth, like honesty, is a pretty good policy. The
pair, rigged out in tennis togs, went to the university’s tennis courts the other day for a few sets. The
varsity team was practicing, so they sat down and waited for more than an hour for a court. Finally, a
court was relinquished and the duo hastened to occupy it. But no sooner had they begun to play than another
pair approached and informed them they had come to take over the court for varsity practice. SaidOne of the disgruntled
pair: “We're out of the varsity too. Would you mind waiting until we finish?” Said one of the newly-arrived: “I’m
glad to know you boys. I’m the coach.”

University officials are considering instituting a non-compulsory course in naval science and tactics. Tulane was not Park. The error was
discovered Friday evening by a group of Student Volunteers. Dave Woodward and Archer Torrey presented the [oration while Rod Williams
and Archer Torrey presented a humorous skit.

Major Steel says that his valuable stamp collection will ensure a college education for his young son, Jim. For example,
once he purchased a stamp for sixty cents and later sold it for ten dollars. If all the ten thousand
stamps in this collection pay such dividends as that, Jim will be assured of his education. Some of them range
as high as thirty dollars in value.

Efforts are being made to interest the local Sunday school and the Christian Endeavor in missions. A news sheet is
being mimeographed summing up the various activities of the Student Volunteer Association to the present time. The date of the
Spring Conference in Winston-Salem has been changed to Palm Sunday in April. Deputations are planned to go to Johnson C.
Smith University, Lees-McRae, Queens-Chicora, and Catawba Colleges.

United States Naval Academy was founded in Annapolis by John G. Crommelin, an Alabama planter. The fifth and youngest son
entered this fall.

Florence George, beauteous Chicago opera singer, has caused quite a furore among University of Pittsburgh admirers. Pi Kappa Alpha members
claim her as their “dream girl,” but a Phi Gamma Delta says it’s all wrong, for “Florence is my cousin,
and she is coming to Pittsburgh to our fraternity dance this spring.” Said a member of Alpha Delta Pi, sorority
affiliation of Miss George: “We regard the fight as very silly.”

Major Steel possesses a large stamp collection which he began in 1923, issued in all parts of the world. The
Gastonia Gazette says: “A most interesting demonstration by Colin, the magician, equal in skill to the best of the professionals.”

Both houses of the Massachusetts legislature have passed a bill to kill the teacher's oath law.

Colin, an entertainer and member of the Society of American Magicians, an exclusive magic fraternity, will give a show.

On last Wednesday evening, March 16, Professor Frontis Johnston spoke at a meeting of the Open Forum Group in Charlotte.
Professor Johnston’s topic of discussion for the night was “Hitler and the Berlin-Rome Axis.” Professor Johnston is regarded as an
outstanding authority on European affairs, and his talk was very interesting and appropriate due to the sudden crisis in European
affairs. He gave a graphic picture of the Nazi leader.

Robert Booth, a prominent Charlotte attorney, presided at this meeting of the group, which was held at the Charlotte Y.
M. C. A. This is one of a number of lectures that Prof. Johnston has made since succeeding the late
Dr. T. W. Lingle as head of the college history department last spring.

The plan is to be presented to the student body for approval in the immediate future. It is hoped that
a closer cooperation between the professors and students will be accomplished by the project.

The debate teams will appear on March 31. Immediately after the spring holidays, they will be at West Virginia University,
Morgantown, W. Va., where they will again defend the negative side of the labor question. On April 1, Hampden-Sydney College
will be met, with Davidson once more taking the negative side of the same question.

ANNOUNCING... The Installation of a New Eugene Permanent Wave Machine
MAYFLOWER BEAUTY SHOP
PHONE 184
MOORESVILLE, N. C.

Copyright 1938, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.

You can carry Chesterfields in your own special case...or you may prefer the attractive all-white Chesterfield package. In any case,
you’re supplied for a day of real smoking pleasure. Fill your case with Chesterfields...for that refreshing mildness...that pleasing taste and
aroma that so many smokers like. Chesterfield’s mild ripe tobaccos...home-grown and aromatic Turkish...and pure cigarette paper are the best ingredients
a cigarette can have.
