Prof. Willia Resume Classes ZS28 ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA The Davidsonian LIBERTAS VOL. XXV DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., WEDNESDAY,
FEB. 2, 1938

New Feature to Honor Students

Dance Set To Feature Berigan and Songstress

Nation’s Most Popular Trumpeter Comes to Charlotte On Feb. 11 and 12

Davidson’s social life will hit a new high the weekend of Feb. 11-12, when Bunny Berigan and his swing band
will be presented by the Pan-Hellenic Council at the Charlotte Armory-Auditorium for the annual Mid-Winter Dances. The council signed the
contract for Berigan a few days before the Christmas holidays. Berigan himself was recently voted the most popular trumpeter in
the nation, and his band is noted for its swing style, similar to Goodman and Crosby's. He features with his
band Gail Reese, a lovely songstress. Berigan will be remembered by many as the popular maestro on the Saturday night
swing session over the Columbia Broadcasting System last year.

No Friday Tea Dance

Mid-Winters this year will consist of a set of three dances. There will be no Friday afternoon tea dance. The
usual Friday night formal will last from 10 until 2 o'clock. At this dance, there will be a figure, led
by Philip H. Arrowsmith, president of the Pan-Hellenic Council, and Miss Way-Way Lumpkin of Columbia, S.C. Those who will take
part in the figure will be the other members of the council and their dates, and one other member from
each fraternity with his date. The Saturday afternoon tea-dance will begin at 4:30, ending at 6:30. On Saturday night will
be the customary informal, which will probably be the largest dance of the set. Hours for it are from 8:30
until 12.

Valentine Decorations

The Armory-Auditorium will be elaborately decorated for Mid-Winters, with a Valentine Day color scheme (Continued on Page 6).

Sponsors For Mid-Winter Dances

Above are the sponsors for the officers of the Pan-Hellenic Council at the forthcoming Mid-Winter dance set. Left to right:
Miss Carleton Sterne, of Anniston, Ala., with J. K. Dorsett, secretary; Miss Mary Waities (Way-Way) Lumpkin, of Columbia, S. C.,
with P. H. Arrowsmith, president; and Miss Dorothy Davis, of Oxford, N. C., with Jerry Harris, treasurer.

Dr. Elliott, Harvard Professor, To Address Davidson Students

Grads Receive New Magazine

Alumni Journal Recently Sent To Davidson Graduates

The January, 1938, issue of the Alumni Journal has just come from the printers and has been mailed to members
of the Alumni Association, according to Fred Smith, alumni secretary and editor of the magazine. Larger than ever before, with
32 pages, it carries articles of universal interest.

Athletic Policy Defined

Dr. Walter L. Lingle, president, defines the athletic policy of the college: “It should be the ideal of Davidson to
have every student participate in some intercollegiate or intramural sport, such as football, baseball, basketball, wrestling, golf, tennis, or gymnastics.
It is our conviction that these sports have not only body-building values but social values in teaching young men the
fine art of teamwork. It should be the ideal of Davidson to give every student not only the medical attention
that he needs during his college days but also the kind of physical education and instruction that he needs for
the rest of his life.”

Other Articles

Of especial interest is an article by Professor Avery Patton, “Davidson Men in Medicine,” giving sketches of alumni who have
received recognition in this field. Dr. H. S. Shaw is the author of a story in which he recounts his
experiences in 25 years of coaching at Haverford Academy. The editor has contributed an interesting article, “Happy as All Outdoors,”
telling of the sport lives of several Davidson graduates. Other pieces tell of Capt. L. A. Mullin, long-time official escort
for foreign dignitaries in this country, and George F. Robertson's reminiscences of the 70's.

Chicago Union Hears Lingle

Dr. Walter L. Lingle, president of Davidson College, addressed the “Pan-Presbyterian College Union” yesterday at its regular meeting in Chicago.
Dr. Lingle addressed the assemblage on “Presbyterian Leadership in Education.” Wednesday, Dr. Lingle will attend a meeting of the Commission
on Teacher Education. This committee was appointed by the Association of American Colleges for the purpose of studying the question
of teacher training. A tentative report has been drawn upon this subject which the members will discuss and prepare for
presentation to the association convention, which is to be held in Chicago this year on January 20. For the past
several years Dr. Lingle has been Davidson’s representative to these meetings of the association.

Political Science Authority Will Lecture Feb. 22 or 23

Dr. William Yandell Elliott, head of the government department of Harvard University, has been secured for an address here, probably
on the 22nd or 23rd of this month, it was announced recently. The topic of the lecture has not yet
been decided, according to Dr. Rene Williamson of the faculty, who studied under Dr. Elliott and who was instrumental in
having him come here. Dr. Elliott is outstanding in the field of political science. A democrat in his views, he
is the author of several books and numerous magazine articles. His books include “The Pragmatic Revolt in Politics,” “The New
British Empire,” and “The Need for Constitutional Reform.” This last mentioned of his works excited unusual attention on its publication
in 1935. Still in his early forties, Dr. Elliott is a native of Nashville, Tenn. He was graduated from Vanderbilt
University, received a Rhodes Scholarship, and won his doctor's degree at Oxford. After association with several universities, he became an
instructor at Harvard in 1925, and since then he has been promoted to a full professorship, becoming chairman of the
department of government in 1933. The prominent professor is making a speaking tour of the south, as he has done
several times in the last three years.

New Students Are Formerly Of Davidson

Registrar Fred Wengeveld announced yesterday that quite a number of new students were expected to report to Davidson to enter
the second semester's work sometime this week. However, on Monday only half a dozen had reported to the registrar's office.
All but two of the group, which has enrolled this week, have attended Davidson at some time in the past
and are returning to complete unfinished work or to take up some new study. K. M. McIntyre of Washington, D.
C., is entering the sophomore class. McIntyre completed his first year work here several years ago. Stewart Barnes is returning
to the senior class. J. M. Otts, who dropped out of school on account of illness during the first semester,
has registered with the freshman class. J. H. McCullough is coming to the junior class as a transfer from the
University of Florida. McCullough’s home is in Jacksonville, Fla. W. T. Jenkins, of Black Mountain, is the only new student
to report so far besides McCullough. Jenkins is entering as a freshman. However, Mr. Wengeveld indicated that he expected more
men to register within the ensuing days.

Lockhart Edits Publication

Presents History, Pictures, and Stories Of Davidson

A series of bulletins presenting the history of Davidson College and certain other interesting facts about the college are being
sent weekly to alumni and friends over the nation. Mr. Malcolm Lockhart, who is in charge of the centennial movement,
is responsible for their preparation and distribution. Mr. Lockhart at present plans an extended series of these informative sheets. They
will be sent to certain areas of the nation where Davidson friends are found.

Birth of Davidson

Thus far, two of the bulletins have come from the press and have been distributed. The first issue was entitled,
“The Birth of Davidson College.” It contained a picture of Robert Hall Morrison, first president of Davidson, along with a
short historical sketch of the founding of the school.

Pictorial Issue

The second bulletin was called “The Work of Davidson College.” It contained pictures of Clyde R. Hoey, Governor of North
Carolina; Dr. B. R. Lacy, president of Union Theological Seminary; Cameron Morrison, former Governor of North Carolina; and Dr. J.
R. McCain, president of Agnes Scott College. Also, there were short statements concerning the work of the graduates of Davidson
in their respective fields. “Davidson is unique with her sons of vision and foresight,” said Governor Hoey in his statement.

Fire At Lee Box Co.

Davidson students and townspeople were alarmed on last Tuesday night, January 25th, about 11:30 by the loud siren of the
City Fire Department, and curious seekers soon found the Lee Paper Box Company to be the scene of the fire.
Due to the fact that the box company is situated next door to the Fire Department, little damage was done
and work was continued there last week. The cause of the blaze was not confirmed, but it is thought to
have resulted from an old oil stove.

YMCA Reviews Atlanta Meet

The Vesper Service Sunday night consisted of reports from the Presbyterian Youth Convention on World Missions held in Atlanta during
the Christmas holidays. Sam Newell, Sherrard Rice, Rodman Williams, and Monroe Wicker each made short talks on the phrase which
struck him as particularly significant. Wade Boggs, Y. M. C. A. secretary, who presided over the service, read a letter
from Mr. Crane's station in Mutoto, Belgium Congo, thanking the Davidson College student body for their 1936 Christmas gift to
that station. Sam Newell spoke next, first stating the causes to which the church collections have been going in the
last eight months, and then on the “Devotions at Atlanta,” which were conducted by Dr. William Elliott. The next talk
by Rodman Williams was on “Facing Our World Today,” basing his remarks chiefly on Dr. J. A. Mackay, president of
Princeton Theological Seminary. Sherrard Rice spoke on “Facing Our Heritage,” telling of the work of home and foreign missions in
the past. Monroe Wicker concluded the reports with the subject “Facing Our Task Today.” Dr. K. J. Foreman closed the
service with prayer.At Michigan Prof. James, Christian Pfohl and his family are leaving this week for Ann Arbor, Mich., where
Prof. Pfohl will complete his work for his Master of Music degree. In connection with this work, Prof. Pfohl, since
the Christmas vacation, has been doing research work in Winston-Salem. He has been studying early Moravian music which has been
preserved in the archives of the Moravian Library of Winston-Salem. Although he will be at the University of Michigan in
Ann Arbor all the spring, Pfohl will return for a few days in April. After receiving his degree as Master
of Music in Musicology, he will be back again in June for the third annual Davidson summer band camp. During
Mr. Pfohl’s absence, Prof. Thane McDonald will serve as acting director of music while Mr. Robert C. Smith of Charlotte,
will direct the Davidson Symphonic Band.

Attractive bulletins concerning the publication plans are to be carried each week. They include a picture of ex-Governor and Senator
Agnes.

Williams Accepts Directorship For Insurance Study

First Tour Is Planned

Debating Team Has Arrangements Made For Annual Southern Trip

The debating team has arranged most of the plans for the tours which are held annually. These trips will start
in a very short time.

The Southern Tour

The Southern tour now has four well-known colleges on schedule and there is a possibility of a fifth one. Emory
at Atlanta will be the first one they will meet. Birmingham Southern at Birmingham will be the second; then will
come the University of Florida at Gainesville and the College of Charleston at Charleston. The southern tour will be the
first and will probably start February 23 and last from eight to ten days. They will cover 1,500 miles. Two
of the debates will be held in high schools, but the University of Florida has arranged for its debate to
be broadcast over the radio.

The Western Tour

The western tour starts on March 7th and the first college to be met will be the University of the
South at Sewanee, Tenn. Then will follow Southwestern at Memphis and Center College at Danville, Ky. There are several schools
under consideration to fill the fourth position.

The Northern Tour

The northern trip is scheduled for later in March, about the 21st. The boys who take this trip will have
their first debate with Rutgers at New Brunswick, N.J., and a tentative date with the Swarthmore debaters at Swarthmore, Pa.
They will then meet Washington & Lee at Lexington, Va.

The various teams will be made up, as usual, of two heads and one alternate. The faculty debating committee with
Dr. G.K. Brown as chairman, chooses the respective teams. There has been only one debate held at Davidson so far
this year. Two more are definitely scheduled for the home debates, Amherst and Hampden-Sydney. As in the case of the
Dartmouth debate, all home debates and many of the out-of-town ones will be no-decision matches.

Professors Make Tour

Survey Made of Several Eastern Colleges

Dr. W.C.K. Brown and Professor W. Wood returned Sunday from a week's survey tour of eastern colleges which somewhat resemble
Davidson in their size and standards. During the trip, both men visited Williams and Amherst colleges, while Dr. Brown inspected
Haverford and Professor Wood went to Swarthmore.

Dr. Brown and Professor Wood are members of a committee appointed by the administration to carry on an extensive survey
of the educational methods being used in other schools similar to Davidson. Professor Bailey, Dr. Cumming, and Dr. Thies are
also serving on this committee.

A Check-Up on Davidson

Professor Bailey said Monday, “a part of the program to improve the school. We are to attempt to discover,” he
said, “if Davidson is keeping up with the times in education.” He said that they were especially interested in comparing
Davidson with other schools of its approximate standards. Dr. Brown said Monday night that he had not had time to
compile the results of his investigation into any definite form as yet. However, he promised that his report would contain
some interesting material.

The first snow in many a moon at the U. of Texas at Austin precipitated a free-for-all snow battle which
took the police riot-squad to break it up.

Prof. John P. Williams returns to the campus to teach his last semester of Business at Davidson. He enters the
commercial field of Insurance in June.

Business Club Fetes Leader

J.P. Williams, Returning For Second Term, Given Surprise Party

The Commerce Club welcomed Prof. J.P. Williams of the Business Department, who is back at school for the new semester.
The Commerce Club gave Professor Williams a surprise party at his home last Monday night at 8:30 o'clock. Professor Williams
is head of the club. Earlier in the day, he was notified that a few of his students would come
by that night to see him. Instead of two or three boys, it was the entire 30 members of the
club that had come around to welcome him back. This meeting was entirely informal and great fun was had by
all.

Williams Approves Club

Professor Williams has expressed approval of progress made by the club earlier and sees possibilities of the club. The organization
was formed at the beginning of the school year and is composed of thirty members, all of whom are majoring
in business. This is the last semester that Professor Williams will be here at Davidson. He will leave permanently in
June.

The Commerce Club will meet again next Wednesday night for its regular bimonthly meeting. At this time, either Mr. Currie
or Mr. Clarence Kuester of Charlotte will speak.

Art Work To Be Exhibited

The Davidson Art Exhibit, being sponsored this year by the Davidsonian, is to be held probably in the Social Center
in about two weeks. Final arrangements are yet to be made, according to Editor Vowles. The following are a part
of those who will exhibit their work: Dallas Herring, pastels and watercolors; Gordon Horton, surrealist and pencil portrait work; and
Mac Covington, colored pencil work. Other eminent contributors include Wade Barrow, J.C. Vinson, Archie Torrey, and Paul Crane.

The purpose of the exhibit is to further student interest in art among students here. As an incentive to the
labors of the contributors, a prize for the best work is being offered by Fred Smith, cartoonist and former artist
for the magazine.

To Direct Work in Schools For American College of Underwriters

ENDS LEAVE OF ABSENCE

Family to Leave at End of Second Semester

Prof. John P. Williams, for twelve years professor at Davidson College, has recently accepted the position as director of the
new educational advisory department of the American College of Life Underwriters of Philadelphia, Pa. The Davidson professor obtained a leave
of absence from the college last summer to begin work with the American College of Underwriters. During the fall, he
visited the business departments of various universities and colleges in southern states, and also met with groups of life underwriters
who were interested in further study in connection with such units.

Professor Williams graduated from Davidson College in the class of 1916 with a B.S. degree. He later did graduate work
at Columbia University and holds an M.A. degree from New York University. Prior to the assumption of his professorship at
Davidson in 1926, he had two years of experience in life insurance underwriting in the field.

To Work as Co-ordinator

The purpose of his work is to co-ordinate the efforts of life insurance companies in the planning of more advanced
educational courses to be carried on in connection with already established colleges and universities. The insurance companies are placing increasing
emphasis on the selection and training of agency managers and underwriters. In this training, they are stressing the subjects of
government, taxes, sociology, economics, and other subjects of this type rather than life insurance principles and salesmanship.

Bailey to Vanderbilt

Professor John C. Bailey of the Language Department will represent Davidson College at the inauguration of Dr. O.T. Carmichael as
chancellor of Vanderbilt University this week. He will also present at the installation of Peabody College's new president, Dr. Sidney
C. Garrison. In connection with these two important events, there will also be a large educational conference in Nashville in
which some of the leading educators of the nation will participate. This gathering will extend over a period of three
days, and Professor Bailey will attend. The theme of the conference will be “A Symposium on Higher Education in the
South,” and under this general heading, there will be three general discussions.

The Davidsonian takes this opportunity to announce the opening of its annual amateur snapshot contest. The College Pharmacy will offer
winners prizes from its stock of photographic supplies. All entries should be turned in to the editor of The Davidsonian.
The deadline for this contest, open strictly to amateurs, will be set at a later time and further information concerning
the details of the contest are to be announced in the next issue of The Davidsonian.
