Page Six THE DAVIDSONIAN

Lettermen To Consider Proposed Numeral Club

Varsity Athletic Organization Lays Plans For Subordinate Group

Monday night a plan for a numeral club was proposed to the D Club. This proposal will be voted on
next Monday night, and if passed will be brought before the student body for a vote. This plan was originally
brought up last spring by Dave Woodward and since then has been put into written form. It is to include
all freshmen and upperclassmen who have made numerals in any freshman sport. The Constitution and by-laws of the proposal follow:

Constitution and By-Laws of the Numeral Club

Since freshman athletics form an integral part of the sports program at Davidson, deserving of adequate recognition and capable of
exerting a wide influence among members of the student body, the Numeral Club exists with the sponsorship of the D
Club for men who have shown distinction in athletics as freshmen. The chief purpose of the Numeral Club is to
co-ordinate the common interests of numeralmen in various sports to develop more general participation in freshman and varsity athletics. It
serves as an early introduction to the privileges, contacts, and opportunity for service offered to members of the D Club.
It should uphold the ideals of good sportsmanship and the Davidson Spirit.

Article 1: The Numeral Club shall be under the direct supervision of the D Club with the Academic Committee of
the D Club acting in an advisory capacity, bringing before the D Club any proposals or petitions of the Numeral
Club.

Article 2: The officers of the Numeral Club shall be elected after the fall initiation and shall be as follows:
President, vice president, and secretary. The treasurer of the D Club shall handle all finances of the Numeral Club.

Article 3: The president will preside at all regular meetings, call special meetings, and make announcements as to the place
and time of meeting. The vice president will preside in the absence of the president. The secretary will record and
read at subsequent meetings the minutes of each session.

Article 4: The President shall appoint a committee of three members to welcome freshmen teams arriving on the campus from
other schools.

Article 5: The President shall appoint a committee of three members to arrange for publicity for the activities of the
Numeral Club.

Article 6: The President shall have the power to appoint committees for special purposes. He shall demand reports on the
activity of all such groups and replace unsatisfactory, that is, inactive members of committees.

Article 7: Membership in the Numeral Club shall be limited to men making their numerals in a freshman sport passed
upon by a three-fourths vote of the club.

BROADWAY

Friday & Saturday
——On the Stage——
First Show of the New Season
DAN FITCH'S “JITTERBUG JUBILEE”
—Featuring—
The New Lovely Girls
—ON THE SCREEN—
“BLONDES AT WORK”
Glenda Farrell - Barton Mac Lane
Dance Craze Comedians

MONDAY & TUESDAY
A Gay-Giddy Romance
“THE CHASER”
with...
DENNIS O'KEEFE - ANN MORRIS

Coming—Oct. 26th IN PERSON
RED INORVO, MILDRED BAILEY

Members of the upper classes become active members.

By-Laws of the Numeral Club

1. All members are expected to attend every meeting unless prevented by reasons beyond personal control. Excuses should be presented
to an officer of the Numeral Club before the meeting. Unexcused absences shall be fined twenty-five cents. A member absent
at two consecutive meetings shall be considered inactive until he has paid his fines. A warning shall be sent after
each absence. Three consecutive absences shall cause automatic withdrawal from the Club.

2. A quorum shall consist of half of the present student members. The order of procedure shall be as follows:
Call to Order, Roll Call, Reading of the Minutes, Reports of Committees, Old or Unfinished Business, New Business, and Adjournment.

3. The initiation fee shall be fifty cents. The monies shall be under the supervision of the D Club. The
initiate shall take the following pledge: While a member of the Numeral Club it shall be my sincere pledge to
uphold the dignity and honor of this organization by maintaining the traditions and ideals surrounding sports at Davidson. I shall
remain loyal in my support of Davidson teams by active participation and continued interest in their success. I shall regard
it my duty to abide by decisions of coaches in regard to training and practice.

Eta Sigma Phi Hears Dr. Caleb R. Harding

Dr. Caleb R. Harding addressed the members of Eta Sigma Phi, classical fraternity, at their regular meeting on Monday night
at nine o'clock in the Social Center. Dr. Harding presented a paper comparing the subject matter and style of Aristophanes’
play, “The Birds,” and Edmond Rostand’s play, “Chanticleer.” He first gave a summary of the Greek comic's play, then a
summary of the famous Frenchman's play. Following this, in a light, humorous vein, Dr. Harding discussed the reaction of certain
critics to both dramas. In addition to Dr. Harding's address, various topics of business were taken up at the meeting.
It was decided by the fraternity that they should meet only once every month, on the second Monday at 9
o'clock. Jack Holland was also initiated into the fraternity.

Class of ’26 To Give Encyclopedic Works

Dr. Robert Graves of Duke University, a member of the Davidson class of '26, has just informed Prof. Chalmers Davidson
that his class will present the Davidson Library with a new set of the Encyclopedia Britannica. The library needed badly
a new set, as the old one was not only somewhat out of date but printed on inferior paper. The
gift set will be printed on substantial paper. Ten Yearbooks of the Britannica are included in the gift.

Beavers Begin Yearly Duties

Entertainment of Winthrop Girls First Job

The Beaver Club has swung into full swing in its duties of entertaining the visitors on the “hill.” This club
endeavors to make the visit of a stranger or group of visitors as enjoyable as possible. They were expecting a
group of musicians during the past football game with Erskine, but because of unforeseen difficulties the bands did not appear
for the game. However, there are a considerable number of bands expected to be present for the game with Furman.
In the season of the game with North Carolina, they will be kept enjoyably busy with the pleasant duty of
entertaining a bevy of beautiful girls from Winthrop College. These girls, sixteen in number, will act as sponsors at the
Carolina game. Due to the fact that their president failed to return to school, Buck Powell, vice president, is capably
leading the group in its endeavors. There are twenty members in this club.

CAMERAMAN DISCOVERS
[Continued from Page Five]

perhaps the last, for what with the advancement of scientific methods such as this to combat the crime, future freshmen
will think more than twice before they attempt to carry on the tradition!

Stud Store Displays Samples of Blazers

Terrell Porter, who has been appointed chairman of the senior blazer committee by President Sam Newell of the senior class,
announced...Today, samples of the blazers will be on display at the Student Store sometime next week. The blazers are selected
by the senior class by popular vote. Last year, the blazers chosen were made of corduroy and were wine-colored.

Break Occurs In Broadcast

Currently on display in the Davidson College Library is a case containing the originals of the first x-ray pictures ever
made and a history of how they were invented. Also displayed is a scrapbook of Woodrow Wilson containing some of
his letters.

Of paramount interest to Davidson students is a non-fictional book "Southerner Discovers the South," by Jonathan Daniels, a native North
Carolinian. Jonathan Daniels, who is editor of The News and Observer, suddenly realized that he had been thinking and writing
about the South all his life without ever having seen it. Therefore, he took a summer off, made a 3,000-mile
tour, and wrote about what he saw. Mr. Daniels said that he talked to governors and college presidents and learned
a lot of interesting things. But, he added, it was from farmers, hitchhikers, and hillbillies that he really learned of
the South.

New Dial System Interrupts First Program

Last Tuesday, October 6, the first radio program given over WET this year was interrupted by an untimely disturbance. The
interruption was due to mechanical difficulties growing out of the new dial telephone system which was used in place of
the system previously connected with Station Charlotte. The program is being given by means of this telephone line from Chambers
Auditorium. Local engineers, however, corrected the difficulties and the program continued. For the next two weeks, the time will be
cut to 15 minutes for each broadcast due to previously arranged programs. After this, the regular 30-minute program will be
resumed.

Marjorie Rawlings' "The Yearling" is first on the fiction list. It is a story of a Florida youth, Jody Baxter,
and his pet deer, Flag. Mrs. Rawlings shows a real insight into the life of the youth of today. Jody
Baxter differs from Mark Twain's Tom Sawyer and Huck Finn, which shows that youth, as well as times, has changed.

"Horse and Buggy Doctor" is first on the non-fictional list. A story typical of country doctors all over America is
written by Dr. "Pop" Hertzler, who began practice forty years ago when "root hog or die" was everybody's motto. None
of his medical equipment was quite so efficient as his Colt "peacemaker" for unfriendly dogs. A farm kitchen was often
his operating room.

"With Malice Towards Some," by Margaret Halsey, was originally titled "Travel Diary of a Professor’s Wife." Margaret Halsey is the
wife of a young Ph.D. who went to a small English town on an exchange professorship. The nitric acid malice
is mainly directed toward the English landed gentry. It isn’t all about small-town life, for there are interesting travels to
London, Paris, Norway, and Sweden.

"The Importance of Living," by the brilliant Chinese Lin Yutang, has been near the top of the non-fictional best-selling list
for quite a while. Lin Yutang lived for a long time in China, and now he lives with us in
America. He loves China, and he loves America. This, his most recent book, is far from being one of the
phoney success books that tell one how to be a "yes man." It is rather a very interesting philosophical work
enriched by Chinese anecdotes and poetry.

"Fanny Kemble, A Passionate Victorian," by Margaret Armstrong, is a biography of that famous actress. It follows her through her
debut in the leading role of "Romeo and Juliet" in her father’s theater, through her success and trip to America.
Her unhappy marriage and return to the stage as a Shakespearean reader follow. Contains humor and warmth. Exciting as a
novel but exactly true.

"Tides of Mont St.-Michel" by Roger Vercel. It is a story of a Parisian married couple, Andre and Laura, who
were ruined by the depression. Andre was glad to accept a position as a uniformed guide at the famous cathedral
on Mont St.-Michel. Laura could not be reconciled to receiving tips from stingy, stupid tourists. Andre catches the spirit of
the tide-torn island, and then excitement begins.

FELLOWSHIP HOLDS

(Continued from Page Three)

The group presented movies on missions to the student body and sponsored the World Day of Prayer. This year, a
council of seven is coordinating the activities of the two groups, so that the fellowship this year will serve as
the informal organization through which these men meet. The council gathered last night to outline the program for this fall.
It will include movies on home and foreign missions, the visit of some missionary to speak to the volunteers for
foreign service, and a number of Sunday evening socials in faculty homes.

WILDCATS OVERWHELM

(Continued from Page Four)

In the final quarter, as her passing combination—Burris to Edwards—clicked time and again. However, they lacked the power to put
it across and each time lost the ball on downs. The boys from Due West fought gamely though obviously outclassed.
Their only successful offensive weapon was their passing attack, which clicked ten times out of thirty attempts for 129 yards
and every one of her ten first downs. Chapman, Burris, and Edwards were outstanding in the visitors’ lineup.

WEDNESDAY, OCT. 12, 1938

CORDUROY COAT

When the channel winds blow, Oxford men don their corduroy coats. They have for years—and now this swanky coat is
sweeping America—it’s so smart for weekends in the country, football games, golf, hunting, all kinds of knock-about wear. And it’s
a value you'll want to snap up FAST. Smart, belted coat of deep lustrous corduroy with sport back, and four
large pleated knapsack pockets. It’s so fine you'd expect to pay at least twice $2.95. Men’s and Boys’ Sizes $9.95
Men’s Shop—Street Floor

MORE ingredients a cigarette can have—mild ripe tobaccos and pure cigarette paper—to make Chesterfield the cigarette that smokers say is
milder and better-tasting.

LIGGETT & MYERS TOBACCO Co.

PLEASURE for millions

PAUL WHITEMAN Every Wednesday Evening GEORGE BURNS Every Friday Evening All C. B. S. Stations GRACIE ALLEN EDDIE DOOLEY Football
Highlights Every Thursday and Saturday 52 Leading N. B. C. Stations

Copyright 1938, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.
