=e tron sos The MDavidsontan woo ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS Z528 VOL. XXV DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., WEDNESDAY, FEB. 9, 1938 No. 21

Davidson College’s Trustees To Meet For Annual Session

Berigan To Furnish Swing As Year’s Biggest Dances Get Under Way This Week

Plans and Recommendations Of Faculty Will Be Reviewed Next Week

The trustees of Davidson College will convene here in mid-winter session next Tuesday and Wednesday. 

Davidson Catalog For 1938-39 Is Now Being Printed

The final proof-reading of the Davidson College Catalog for 1938-39 has been made, and the catalog is now in the hands of the printer. It should appear from the press in about two weeks, according to Mr. Fred Hengeveld, college registrar. The catalog is being printed by the News Printing Company this year. It will feature the same color scheme on the outside cover as the 1937-38 issue, with the exception that the college seal will be pictured on the back cover in gold against a background of black.

Contained in the catalog is the usual general outline of courses and those in the present session. There has been, however, some altering in the outline of courses in the departments of history, mathematics, and political science.

Sent To Prospective Students

The catalog will be sent to the list of prospective Davidson students. Any student who has friends contemplating Davidson as their choice for college is requested to stop by Mr. Hengeveld’s office and have one of the catalogs sent to them.

Professor Attends Inaugural Ceremonies at Vandy And Peabody

Professor John C. Bailey returned to the college Monday morning after attending the inaugural ceremonies at George Peabody College for Teachers and Vanderbilt University.

Secretary of Association of American Colleges Inspects Grounds

Guy Snavely, executive secretary of the Association of American Colleges, visited the Davidson campus for a short time last Saturday.

Arrowsmith to Lead Figure—Valentine Decorations Being Planned

With Bunny Berigan’s orchestra swinging out in characteristic style, the Mid-Winter dances will get under way Friday night at 9:00 in the Charlotte Armory. 

Six of Davidson's nine national fraternities are holding their annual initiation ceremonies this week and the remaining three plan to complete theirs sometime after the Mid-Winter dances.

Phi Gamma Delta held its formal initiation last Saturday and the schedule of the others are: Phi Delta Theta, today and tomorrow; Kappa Alpha, today and tomorrow; Sigma Phi Epsilon, today; Kappa Sigma and Pi Kappa Alpha, tomorrow; Pi Kappa Phi, 17; Beta Theta Pi, Feb. 2 and Sigma Alpha Epsilon, March 9.

It is thought that approximately one hundred men will be initiated.

On last week-end a deputation consisting of four members of the “Y” cabinet and Wade Boggs, “Y” secretary, was sent to Asheville to help “Mokey” Faison, alumnus of '37, now prominently connected with “Y” boys work in Asheville. Pictured above with Faison are those who made the trip: Bottom row, left to right, Boggs, Haywood Hill, and Teeny Lafferty; top, left to right, Monroe Wicker, Boo Walker, and Faison.

Wicker Says Honorary Fraternity Council to Become More Active

The Honorary Fraternity Council at a meeting last Monday, made new plans and intends to hold regular meetings and to become as active as possible. Monroe Wicker, president of the council, said that the council would put new life in them if possible. One other point was that if the societies were allowed to remain out of the council they could arrange meetings and would conflict. A vote was taken and by a margin of 2 to 6 the movement passed that the societies be included in the council. Also during the meeting W. Laws resigned as president of the council.A former Sigma Phi, national honorary Greek and classical literature fraternity, representative of Davidson and a loyal friend of Davidson College, Dallas Herring, vice president and acting president of Birmingham-Southern, was returning from a trip to Florida. His home office at present is in New York City. Other southern colleges and universities were also included in his short tour.

Davidson is a member of Mr. Snavely’s organization. He carefully inspected the campus for a report to the association. He was much impressed by the appearance of the grounds and especially the new Chamber buildings and several others that had been constructed.

Davidson Sponsors Annual Snapshot Contest

The annual snapshot contest for amateur photographers on the campus, sponsored this year by the College Pharmacy and The Davidsonian, will open Thursday, Feb. 10th, and last until Monday, March 7th. This contest is open to any student who is classified as an amateur photographer, and all those interested in photography are urged to stop in at the College Pharmacy and obtain an entry blank. Those who have made photographs for The Davidsonian at any time will not be classified as amateurs.

Photographs submitted should have life on the campus as a general theme. Sapp, manager of the College Pharmacy, has announced that he will give many valuable prizes for winners. Most of these prizes will be awarded to the best pictures in the contest.

Dr. Rene DeV. Williamson, of the economics department, is a former student of Dr. Elliott, and it is through his efforts that the latter has been secured to speak here. Dr. William Yandell Elliott of Harvard University, head of the government department, will be present on the Davidson campus the latter part of this month. Davidson is quite fortunate in securing him for an engagement.

Dr. Walter L. Lingle, president of Davidson College, left via train Monday evening bound for Princeton, N.J. There he will address the students and faculty of the Princeton Theological Seminary. Representative ministers from all over the nation are invited to speak in the seminary chapel there throughout the year. Dr. Lingle will visit Princeton for another meeting later in the month.

Conferences Held for The Davidsonian

“This is a most interesting discussion,” wrote Jesse A. Linthicum, sports columnist of The Baltimore Sun, of President Walter L. Lingle’s article in the recent Alumni Journal concerning subsidization of athletes in his daily “Sunlight on Sports” column last week. Columnist Linthicum gave over practically his entire two-column space to quotations and discussion of Dr. Lingle’s article. Just over the “Sunlight on Sports” was a large two-column picture of Davidson's president.

Dr. Lingle’s article appeared only recently following a heated discussion in newspaper and alumni circles concerning subsidized athletics. Columnist Linthicum seemed to be very much in accord with Dr. Lingle’s statements, although he didn’t directly admit the fact. However, during the past few days quite a number of alumni have written to the president’s office supporting his stand.

Beauty treatments seem to do the least for those who need ’em most. Things we miss—at least it seems so from reports our friends bring us.

Quips and Cranks

Davidson’s annual, has recently secured a set of Bradshaw Crandell’s illustrations. Editor Jim Dorsett asks that all pictures be submitted by the students by the middle of the week so that they may be sent on to Mr. Crandell. It is expected that they will be returned in about two weeks after being sent.

Bradshaw Crandell is one of the country’s most famous illustrators and for a number of years he had sketched the cover piece on the popular Cosmopolitan Magazine. He has a unique style in putting feminine beauty on paper, and though his paintings are not “polished” in appearance, they include all features which add to the beauty of the young lady.