WEDNESDAY, NOV. 16, 1938 THE DAVIDSONIAN: Page Three

Dr. B. R. Lacy Delivers Homecoming Vesper Sermon

"The Sons of Lamech" is Subject of His Talk

Taking as his subject "The Sons of Lamech," Dr. Ben R. Lacy spoke to the Davidson student body at the Sunday evening Vespers service of November 13. Dr. Lacy is now the President of Union Theological Seminary in Richmond, Virginia, and is one of Davidson's most prominent alumni. The fourth chapter of Genesis contains the genealogy of the House of Lamech. It is interesting to note that the only one of all the genealogies recorded in the Bible which continues all the way through is that of Christ. All the others—Lamech's, Ham's, and those of many other stalwarts—fade out, but the line of Shem remains.

The sons of Lamech, the second recorded murderer, were three: Jabel, Jubal, and Tubal Cain. Each of these three has a definite place in the development of pastoral life and of animal husbandry, making possible for men to live rather than to starve. Jubal invented string and wind musical instruments, which gave man a means of occupying his leisure time. Tubal Cain, last of the three brothers, is mentioned in the Bible both because he was the founder of metallurgy and because of the moral lesson which his discovery and its use teach. Tubal Cain was the first worker in bronze and in iron; thus, he was the first to use these metals for weapons. He is perhaps the most important of the three brothers, for with the possible exceptions of air and water, iron is the most essential substance to our electrical and mechanized world today.

ODK INITIATION HELD

The fall initiation of Omicron Delta Kappa was held Tuesday night in the Wranglers' room of Chambers Building at 8:15 o'clock. At this meeting, a new secret ritual was used for the first time. After the initiation, the regular bi-weekly business meeting was held in the faculty room. The boys initiated were Tom Abbott, Charlotte; Cage Brewer, Clarksdale, Miss.; Joe Calvin, Decatur, Ala.; Sam Hemphill, Marion; Julian Squires, Charlotte; T. E. Walker, Charlotte, and Dave Warden, Johnson City, Tenn.

Homecoming Speakers

The above Davidson "old grads" spoke at the annual Homecoming luncheon for alumni Saturday, November 12th, in the banquet hall of Chambers Building. They are Wilbur Edwards, president of the student body of 1937, Dr. Ben R. Lacy, President of Union Theological Seminary in Richmond, Virginia, and Dr. John McSween, president of the Davidson alumni association. This year, for the first time, Davidson seniors were invited to attend the alumni luncheon.

Cup Captured By Pika For Best Decorations

The local chapter of Pi Kappa Alpha, social fraternity, won the silver loving cup for the most unique idea in decorating the fraternity house during the Homecoming weekend. Boys working late Friday evening and early Saturday morning decorating their various fraternity houses. The prevalent idea was to win the silver cup for the most unique and outstanding idea for Homecoming and the football game Saturday afternoon. The judges were members of the faculty.

Theme of the Pi Kappa Alpha house was the destruction of the Flying Squadron. Out in the yard, nose down, was a crashed airplane; one wing was lodged in a tree. By means of sandbags and guns, the roof of the house had been turned into a fort with guns manned by members of the Wildcat team. The unlucky pilot with a football uniform lay sprawled on the ground.

The Beta Theta Pi house was transformed for the day into the Franklin Club. A long awning in red and black led from the street to the door. The Phi Gamma Delta welcomed the team by spelling the initials in long streamers of red, white, and blue.

Ancient Wash Day Has Gone Modern, Efficient Laundry Operates at Davidson; Eliminates Blue Monday

The great era of Monday wash day has passed into eternity, along with bustles, the shaving mug, and the horse. At least this is true at Davidson. For full wash lines, bulky pungent washwomen, and the like have been replaced by a staff of forty neatly-uniformed employees working in a modern laundry plant. They have taken over the burden of washing the 8,000 pounds of student apparel or approximately 23,000 pieces which are sent to the laundry weekly, not including the work done for residents of Davidson and the college faculty.

One of the biggest improvements that has been instituted by Mr. Hamrick, the manager, this year, is a new deal for the 4,000 shirts which pass through the wringer every week. The "steele-style" protection, using no pins and wrapping the shirts unbuttoned before use by a special anti-crush machine, has been adopted. The secret of the whole business is a machine in which the operator gives a crank, and "presto!" it is folded.

The girl student body provides four-fifths of the plant's business, while the remaining one-fifth—or approximately 1,600 suits a week—comes from the boys. There are sixteen employees and 24 machines. The plant should set the style in shirts.Problem aie) excerpts from translations of some Pi Kappa Alpha Lucile Sayrit, Kathryn © Curran, Rachel Weyer of Kinston; Virginia py for ena Regardless of its great value, of these papayrae, about twenty-five in all. Some of these had a humorous aspect, many concerning domestic life. Included in the number he read were the following: a marriage license, a writ of divorce, a court decree, a bank note and an account of a strike by the police force. The brothers and their dates were entertained Friday night by a party at the house. Among the girls present were Kathaleen Rhea, Martha Dotson, Louise White of Statesville, Hazel Barefoot, Betsy Springer, Julia Edwards, Justine Jones, Kat Curran, Tena Granger, Tiny Waddell, Frances James, Polly Armstrong, Nell Fisher, Agnes Hope Gwaltney, Helen Westerfield, Ester Lee Harris of Charlotte; Martha Brandon of Laurinburg, Betty Sechrest of High Point, Sara Rice of Anderson, Margaret Farmer of Wilmington and Gladys Lillian Sample, Syble Trexler, Charlotte McAdden, Sara Lilland, Walker, pharma; of the Ester Lee Harris, Barbara Thazzer, Margie Irmbody and Harriet Osborne of Charlotte; Nancy Carter and Tag Paul of Salisbury; Chris- Sarre aa Sra eerie nett Phi Gamma Delta The Philanthropic Literary Society held its fall initiation ceremony at its meeting last night at the Woman's Club in Charlotte. Saturday night, in honor of the pledges and alumni. Girls present for the affair were Nancy McMillan, Mary and Barbara Thomas of Knoxville; Florence Mosby of Waynesboro; Gentry Burks, Delice Young, Sophie Walker, Mauger Mosely, Ann Maudin, Ella Keene Steele of Davidson. Charlotte Martin, Peggy Parsley, Nancy Hovis, all of Charlotte; Emily Har- Libby Jones, Caroline Miller, Ann Muffin Ca AV tin Recaraine Mristianity unless there are Christians to apply it—unless there are men who will serve mankind with that unselfishness which should and will wear the anare ue el; the attainment of the goal—of the triumph of the Spirit of Jesus—is the spirit of Lamech, father of Tubal Cain. Lust and violence opposing peace and service. It is Lamech against Jesus; Cain against Christ. On whose side are we? 

Pre-Med Frat Holds Annual Initiation At its meeting on November 11, the Davidson chapter of Alpha Epsilon Delta, honorary pre-med fraternity, initiated ten men: They are Julian Lokey, Walter Fitzgerald, Woodall Rose, Lem Kornegay, Charlie Sherman, Oscar Joyner, S. H. Walker, R. E. Balsley, Henry Bahnson and Harry Hendrick. This was the first initiation of the chapter under its new policy. Prior to this the neophytes have been selected only from the Senior and the rising Senior classes. This year membership was open to Seniors and Juniors with a one-point-five average in all subjects, and Sophomores with a two-point average. [Continued on Page Six] 

Fiji’s Enjoy Informal Dance Phi Gamma Delta held an informal dance at the Woman's Club in Charlotte Saturday night, in honor of the pledges and alumni. Girls present for the affair were Nancy McMillan, Mary and Barbara Thomas of Knoxville; Florence Mosby of Waynesboro; Gentry Burks, Delice Young, Sophie Walker, Mauger Mosely, Ann Maudin, Ella Keene Steele of Davidson. Charlotte Martin, Peggy Parsley, Nancy Hovis, all of Charlotte; Emily Har- Libby Jones, Caroline Miller, Ann Muffin Ca AV tin Recaraine Mristianity unless there are Christians to apply it—unless there are men who will serve mankind with that unselfishness which should and will wear the anare ue el; the attainment of the goal—of the triumph of the Spirit of Jesus—is the spirit of Lamech, father of Tubal Cain. Lust and violence opposing peace and service. It is Lamech against Jesus; Cain against Christ. On whose side are we? 

Pre-Med Frat Holds Annual Initiation At its meeting on November 11, the Davidson chapter of Alpha Epsilon Delta, honorary pre-med fraternity, initiated ten men: They are Julian Lokey, Walter Fitzgerald, Woodall Rose, Lem Kornegay, Charlie Sherman, Oscar Joyner, S. H. Walker, R. E. Balsley, Henry Bahnson and Harry Hendrick. This was the first initiation of the chapter under its new policy. Prior to this the neophytes have been selected only from the Senior and the rising Senior classes. This year membership was open to Seniors and Juniors with a one-point-five average in all subjects, and Sophomores with a two-point average. [Continued on Page Six] 

Fiji’s Enjoy Informal Dance Phi Gamma Delta held an informal dance at the Woman's Club in Charlotte Saturday night, in honor of the pledges and alumni. Girls present for the affair were Nancy McMillan, Mary and Barbara Thomas of Knoxville; Florence Mosby of Waynesboro; Gentry Burks, Delice Young, Sophie Walker, Mauger Mosely, Ann Maudin, Ella Keene Steele of Davidson. Charlotte Martin, Peggy Parsley, Nancy Hovis, all of Charlotte; Emily Har- Libby Jones, Caroline Miller, Ann Muffin Ca AV tin Recaraine Mristianity unless there are Christians to apply it—unless there are men who will serve mankind with that unselfishness which should and will wear the anare ue el; the attainment of the goal—of the triumph of the Spirit of Jesus—is the spirit of Lamech, father of Tubal Cain. Lust and violence opposing peace and service. It is Lamech against Jesus; Cain against Christ. On whose side are we? 

Pre-Med Frat Holds Annual Initiation At its meeting on November 11, the Davidson chapter of Alpha Epsilon Delta, honorary pre-med fraternity, initiated ten men: They are Julian Lokey, Walter Fitzgerald, Woodall Rose, Lem Kornegay, Charlie Sherman, Oscar Joyner, S. H. Walker, R. E. Balsley, Henry Bahnson and Harry Hendrick. This was the first initiation of the chapter under its new policy. Prior to this the neophytes have been selected only from the Senior and the rising Senior classes. This year membership was open to Seniors and Juniors with a one-point-five average in all subjects, and Sophomores with a two-point average. [Continued on Page Six]