WEDNESDAY, OCT. 5, 1938 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Five

Dr. C. M. Richards Leads Sunday Vesper Service
Main Beliefs of the Presbyterian Church Set Forth in His Sermon

Dr. C. M. Richards, Davidson Bible Professor, conducted last Sunday’s vesper services in the college auditorium. The text was taken from the 48th Psalm. Dr. Richards started his sermon with the words “Walk about Zion and note the towers, notice the bulwarks, and the houses.”

“There is nothing left but the wailing wall of ancient Zion. A new Zion is the Church of God, and with it has arisen no wailing wall. The church is divided into many different denominations.” Dr. Richards discussed the Presbyterian Church, one of the largest and strongest denominations.

He then compared this denomination to a city, whose architecture is Bible style, built according to Bible directions. There is nothing in it but what the Bible says or what has been taken by necessary inference. The first palace of the government is represented by the principles chosen by the people, the form of which is found in the Apostolic Church in New Testament times. Acceptance of this form of government constitutes Presbyterianism.

The bulwarks are said to be God and his relation to the universe. God is a spirit infinite and eternal in His attributes. God is infinite in everything and the more science discovers the greater his greatness. He is the creator of the universe and history built by fundamental plans and specifications. God embraces everything; this is predestination. Predestination is the moving power of every person. If a man objects that there are evil things, he can take one of three choices, three suppositions. First, God did not know these things would happen. This limits His knowledge. Second, God did know things would happen but could not prevent them. This limits His power. Third, God knew these things would happen and could have prevented them, but determined to allow them and then overrule them to good. This is the only one that could be accepted.

Second, the palace of man, which was created first in the image of God, having knowledge, feeling, and willing choice, is based on itself. Third, grace is the Father and God the Son agreed that the only thing to be done was to give man a second choice. Christ paid for the sins of men, taking away all misery and giving all men a second chance. No power can ever take away the persons which God guaranteed to his son for his death. This is called the perseverance of the saints. Finally, an exaltation we can all rejoice in is the power of free choice in this second chance. Let our choice be guided by wisdom, choosing Christ as our Saviour, and so putting us on God's side, and God on our side for eternity.

Eumenean In First Meeting
Debate Is Held on European War Question

At its first meeting of the school year, the Eumenean Literary Society had an Oxford-type debate on the present European situation. Members of various committees were also formed at this meeting, which was held last night at 8:00 in Eu Hall. Many interesting points were brought forth in a hotly-contested discussion of the political situation in Central Europe. (In an Oxford type debate, any member of the group may rise, be recognized by the chair, and give his opinions on the question. Usually a member of (Continued on Page Six)

DAVIDSON’S ONLY 5 & 10c STORE
SOUTHERN 5 & 10c STORE
Davidson, N. C.

Pre-Med Frat To Offer Bids

The first meeting of the Alpha Epsilon Delta Fraternity will be held next Friday night at 9 o'clock at the Beta Theta Pi House. The first business to be taken up will be concerned with the bidding of new members. There is a new policy this year in the matter of bidding. The fraternity is open for the first time to pre-medical sophomores with an average of 2 points and above, and to juniors and seniors with an average of 1.5 points and above.

After this business has been discussed, the subject for the evening will concern the placement of Davidson students in medical schools. The policy of giving student assistance to Dr. MacConnell and the infirmary will also be brought before the group, after which Bob Gish will read his paper on the initiatory organization. This pre-medical fraternity is a national fraternity limited to those interested in the study of medicine and who require grades. The faculty members of this fraternity are: Dr. Morrow, Dr. MacConnell. The student members are: M. E. Doty, E. A. Erwin, W. T. Rainey, R. G. Lyon, and R. G. Rosser.

Glee Club To Give Concert
McDonald Announces Plans For Music Programs

The first concert of the 1938-39 Glee Club will be presented here sometime in the latter part of November, according to plans announced by Thane McDonald, director. The program, the date for which has not been announced, will include both sacred and secular musical numbers. The first vespers program of the year will be held in the near future, it was learned. Four such programs will be staged throughout the year. Highlights of the activities for the singers will be a special program of Christmas music scheduled for December 11, the last vespers before Christmas. The orchestra will also appear on that program. Unless present plans are changed, the Glee Club will make its first trip in the spring, probably in March. Student head of the Glee Club this year is J. K. Wilson. Dave King has recently been named vice president to succeed Dick Kenyon who was originally elected to that post. Secretary and treasurer of the group is Gus McDonald.

HAPPY BIRTHDAYS!

Happy birthdays to you, Dr. Lingle, Dr. Watts, and Prof. Mebane. To those of you who do not understand, it might be added that on Monday, October 3, those three Davidson professors celebrated the date of their nativities. Dr. Lingle celebrated by giving a most helpful chapel talk on “Courtesy.” Dr. Watts celebrated by giving his French 31 class a writ and Professor Mebane celebrated by not giving his math classes a writ.

Some people cast their bread upon the waters and expect it to come back with a hot dog and mustard. Many a man does not discover it was anything more than a mere flirtation until she has married him.

Johnson’s Barber Shop

First Issue of Alumni Journal
Wide Variety Shown In Vocations of Students
One Hundred and Thirty-Three Have Not as Yet Decided

Several years from now the whole Davidson student body will be scattered far and wide over the whole nation and some will even be on another side of the earth. You will find your old schoolmates in every profession from undertakers to the foreign service if each does what he now intends to do.

Business Most Popular

The most popular vocation with Davidson men is business. One hundred forty-one students intend to make that their life work. Medicine is runner-up with 109 prospective doctors. Law comes third with 57 men who expect to settle the various problems of their old school pals. There are 41 students who intend to go into the ministry, which has always been a popular field with Davidson men. Twenty-four intend to be chemists. There are 29 who expect to teach. Possibly some will become Davidson professors. Seventeen chose the field of accounting, aviation, and other areas.Currie, | the editor, writes about alumni and activities of the school, making it one of the most popular publications. Following closely with 15 future Lindberghs or Corrigans, 14 are going to be engineers, with music next with 11 men who want the life of a musician. Possibly some of the Davidson staff members will be running the New York Times in a few years because there are 9 future journalists here.

Electrical engineering and textiles tie with 8 men each. Six of your schoolmates will probably come to you and try to sell you some insurance. When you get a toothache, you will have your choice of five dentists who are at present Davidson students. Missions, medical missions, and the tobacco business have attracted 5 men each. Physical education, research, soil science, and civil service are chosen by two for each field. Biology, church work, civil service, forestry, mortician, and psychiatry end up the list with one each. This accounts for 35 different vocations chosen by Davidson students, with 14 undecided as to what they intend to be in later life.

AMONG THE GREEKS

Kappa Alpha—Pledges Royal, Pred Smith, Dave Sprunt, and Pledges Rock Branton and Walter Lee Shelton visited Randolph-Macon in Lynchburg, Va. Boys going home for the weekend were George Jones to Greensboro, Hewes Parrish to Winston-Salem, and pledge brother Doug Dillard to Greensboro. They attended the State-Carolina game in Raleigh Saturday. Brother Horton bummed to the Duke game and pledge Jimmie Houston went to Raleigh.

Phi Delta Theta—Brothers Wells, Scarborough, Bob Wyatt, Roy Tenney, and Vereen and pledge brother Hatcher went to Charlotte. Brothers at the Salem game were Bill LeGrand, Charlie McArthur, and Tommy Glenn, while Charlie Luther took in the game and dance at Columbia, S.C. Ovid Bell was the Phi Delt representative at Duke, Saturday. Sunday brothers Bill Boyd, Dick Hunter, Marshall Foote, and Reid Harmon went down to Winthrop.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon—Lem Kornegay, Hector Maclean, Hugh Knox, Rod Turner, Charlie and Jim Sample, Tom Mullin, Walt Fitzgerald, and pledge Victor Shaw took off to Charlotte during the weekend. At the Davidson-Duke game, Rufus Plonk spotted Davidson ties for Station WBT. Also present were John Hay and Mr. and Mrs. John Doty. Jimmy Thompson and Joe Craver took Johnny Tice to Salisbury and brought him back scratched up. What's the low-down?

Phi Gamma Delta—Eight Phi Gam brothers were at the Duke-Davidson game Saturday. Cage Brewer, Fred Staire, George Richmond, Bill Bolin, and Bob Johnson were on the team, while Henry Baker, Jack Tillotson, and pledge Louis Harvard were with the band. Pledges Rock Mitchell went home to Wilmington, and pledge George Webb went to Winston-Salem. “Bosco” Marion and Dick Taylor visited Ray Pittman in Fayetteville and attended the State-Carolina game in Raleigh Saturday. Brother Horton bummed to the Duke game and pledge Jimmie Houston went to Raleigh.

Kappa Sigma—Jim Cooper made his debut as junior cheerleader at the Duke-Davidson game. Brothers Wells, Scarborough, Bob Wyatt, Roy Tenney, and Vereen and pledge brother Hatcher went to Charlotte. Brothers at the Salem game were Bill LeGrand, Charlie McArthur, and Tommy Glenn, while Charlie Luther took in the game and dance at Columbia, S.C. Ovid Bell was the Phi Delt representative at Duke, Saturday. Sunday brothers Bill Boyd, Dick Hunter, Marshall Foote, and Reid Harmon went down to Winthrop.

Sigma Phi Epsilon—Lem Kornegay, Hector Maclean, Hugh Knox, Rod Turner, Charlie and Jim Sample, Tom Mullin, Walt Fitzgerald, and pledge Victor Shaw took off to Charlotte during the weekend. At the Davidson-Duke game, Rufus Plonk spotted Davidson ties for Station WBT. Also present were John Hay and Mr. and Mrs. John Doty. Jimmy Thompson and Joe Craver took Johnny Tice to Salisbury and brought him back scratched up. What's the low-down?

Beta Theta Pi—Friday night brother Burch, Bill Howell, and McCallie went over to Albemarle and Saturday Bill Howell went with Oscar Joyner to Joyner's home in Kernersville, while brother Burch went to the Duke-Davidson game. Pledges Rankin and Atwater and Brother Barnwell went home to Burlington, and Pledge Winn went to Greenville, S.C. Dave Warden, Gales, and Erskine game here Saturday.

The next meeting of the fraternity will be held Friday, Oct. 21st, and will be devoted to business, with five new members being voted on. The chapter will meet regularly on the first and third Friday of each month, from 7 to 8 o'clock.

Dr. Charles A. Elwood, Professor of Sociology at Duke, is national president, which is incidentally quite an honor. Famous people in the National Advisory Council include Judge Morton, Richard B. Byrd, the late S. Copeland, and others.

Charlie Smith and Dick Spencer were elected junior cheerleaders to complete the foursome of which Charlie Luther and Dick Hunter were already members. Jimmy Cooper was the only junior cheerleader who aided Dick Taylor, head cheerleader, at the Duke game. All four, however, will shout out in full force at the Erskine game here Saturday.

FOR PROMPT AND EFFICIENT SERVICE "RENT A CAR" and Drive It Yourself, Inc. Phone 3-4513—110 S. Church St. Charlotte, N.C.

DAVID NICHOLS & CO. Rockmart, Ga.

DAVIDSON THEATRE

Saturday, Oct. 8—"MR. DOODLE KICKS OFF" With Joe Penner

Monday, Oct. 10—"ROOM SERVICE" With The Marx Brothers

Wednesday, Oct. 12—"RACKET BUSTERS" With George Brent, Gloria Dickson, Humphrey Bogart

FAUL & CRYMES, Inc. Davidson, N.C.

THIS FREE BOOK HAS THE ANSWERS

Whitman's 144-Page, Vest-Pocket ANSWER BOOK Thousand-Fact Reference and FREE with purchase of a bottle of Parker Quink at 15c or 25c—the Amazing New Writing Ink That Ends Pen-Clogging. Now! Accept this offer! Get Quink! Made solely to induce you to try Parker Quink—the new miracle writing ink that makes any pen a self-cleaner. Quink dissolves deposits left in a pen by ordinary inks—ending clogging. Always brilliant—never watery. Free with purchase of a bottle of Parker Quink. Made by The Parker Pen Co.