WEDNESDAY, MARCH 16, 1938 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Three

Dr. Foreman Speaks At Sunday Vesper Service

Using “The Moral Philosophy of Popeye” as the unique topic of his sermon, Dr. Kenneth J. Foreman, of the Davidson
faculty, was the speaker at the vesper service on Sunday, March 13.

After impressing upon the students the serious text of his sermon, Dr. Foreman explained just who Popeye is, especially for
the seniors who probably had not read about his adventures since their freshman year. Dr. Foreman did not talk of
Popeye's adventures but rather of his philosophy: “I yam what I yam and tha’s all I yam.”

“The world is full of Popeyes. Many thousands of people from coast to coast and in every walk of life
sit back and say, ‘I am what I am.’” Clarence Darrow illustrated the point that even brilliant and successful men
are among the students of this school. Darrow, just before his death, in his 80th year, was asked in what
way he regarded himself as having done the most good. Mr. Darrow replied that he thought his tolerance towards man,
believing that no one is responsible for his made-up acts, had done the greatest amount of good. But even this
great leader was not sold completely on the “I am what I am” belief. For when asked what he thought
had been his most difficult task, he replied: “Trying to overcome the cruelties of life.”

Yet Popeye’s philosophy is true to a certain degree. All of our lives always bear the stamp of our childhood
training. Even some of our temperamental characteristics are unchangeable. Simon Peter was the same loud-spoken, robust leader after his conversion
that he was before it.

How do we know that we can grow? It is by growing. And how do we know that we have
changing temperaments? It is by watching our temperaments change. The sum of the whole sermon might well be, “The essence
of the Christian experience is continuous Christian change.” It does not consist of the changes which we see around us
but of changes in man, wrought by God. The trouble with many of us is that we try to change
only once, at our conversion, and then let our church life go. It is true that Popeye stays the same
because his creator wants him to stay that way. But our creator intends for us to grow. A sculptor once
said, “All I do is chip away the part of stone that I don’t need.” God does this for us,
freeing the wings of our spirit from a great needless weight.

Concert Will Be Presented By Glee Club

The Davidson College Glee Club will present its annual spring concert in Chambers Auditorium tonight at eight o'clock. The Glee
Club has a growing reputation throughout the south for presenting the finest sacred and secular vocal music for men's voices.
The membership is limited to thirty voices and includes students from practically every state in the south, and also students
from Korea and Africa. The director, Prof. Thane McDonald, is the college organist and is at present acting Director of
Music during the absence of Prof. James Christian Pfohl.

Last year the organization was heard on several radio broadcasts directly from the college and this year the selected double
quartet sings on the Sunday morning chapel services which are broadcast directly from the college auditorium. The newly organized Varsity
Quartet, directed by Mr. McDonald, replacing the group which graduated last year, will assist the Glee Club in the concert
here. Also assisting on the program is Mr. Warren Perry Babcock, instrumental assistant in the college. He specializes in the
cello, and his selections on this instrument will be accompanied by Mr. McDonald.

The group has just returned from a successful tour during which concerts were presented at Wilmington, Flora Macdonald College, Presbyterian
Junior College, and Wadesboro High School.

Concert Program

The following program will be presented at the concert: O Holy Father, Palestrina; Ave Maria, Arcadelt; With Heart Uplifted, Schvedov;
It Is the Lord’s Own Day, Kreuter; Piano Solo by Donald Davidson, Etincelles, Moszkowski; Violoncello by Warren Perry Babcock; Spanish
Dance, Granados; Folk Tune, Arr. by T. McDonald; Street Urchin’s Medley and Nut Brown Maiden by the Quartet; Climb Up
Ye Chillun, traditional spiritual; Joshua Fit de Battle of Jericho, Arr. by Gual; The Garland I Send Thee, Cain; What
Shall We Do With a Drunken Sailor? Sea Chanty; English Folk Tune, Arr. by T. McDonald; Land Sighting, Grieg.

Admission to the concert will be free.

Philanthropic Society Holds Reunion Meet

Many Old Members and Friends Enjoy Musical Program and Debate

One of the most important meetings of the Philanthropic Literary Society was held Tuesday night at Phi Hall. Members of
the faculty with their wives attended the function, the purpose being to bring the society and the faculty closer together.
Many other notables were present. The famous chandelier was supplied with candles and lighted for the occasion. Part of the
program consisted of a debate rendered by two of the active members.

Many old members of the Philanthropic Society were invited to the meeting Tuesday night and the faculty and their wives
were also sent invitations. Many of the faculty members who attended Davidson in their college days belonged to this society.

Musical Selections

The program of the evening consisted mainly of musical selections rendered by several distinguished guests. The pieces were those of
a popular nature and appealed to such an audience. The guest musicians were Mr. W. H. Neal, Mr. W. C.
Wright, Mrs. T. A. Boaz, and Mrs. Fanny Burton Watkins. Mr. Neal, vocalist, is vice president of the Wachovia Bank
& Trust Co., of Winston-Salem. He graduated here in 1917, serving as president of the Phi Society during his senior
year. Mr. Wright is a violinist and has appeared often in Davidson. He has played in some of the most
widely advertised recitals.

Spanish Frat Extends Bids

Twenty-Five Bid to Spanish Fraternity and Club

The Spanish Club and Sigma Delta Pi, the Spanish honorary fraternity, will hold a joint meeting a week from tonight,
March 23. This will be held in the social center. The joint meeting will be held in order to initiate
new members into both groups.

Sigma Delta Pi has issued bids to nine men. They are: E. C. Brewer, Dave McQueen, Charles Parker, Dave Newbold,
W. M. Houston, F. W. Hughes, F. M. Pleasants, C. W. Roberts, and Jack Holland.

The Spanish Club has issued sixteen invitations to join its ranks. The following have received bids: Roy Cunningham, E. E.
Harkey, H. Guion, L. A. Roberts, W. E. William Black, E. C. Hulon, Dan Cagle, J. Hogg, John Kennedy, Charlie
Mashburn, J. I. Ogburn, Tony Casali, K. G. Hudson, John Erwin, and Jack Lee.

Light refreshments are to be served which will be followed by a short talk by A. O. Shelby, president of
the fraternity.

Page Assignments

Page one—John Withers and Harry Hendrick
Page three—Earle Austin
Page four—Bob Wood and Tom Casali
Page five—Karl Hudson
Page six—Jack Holland
Assignments—Tom Perrin

Professors To Report On Northern College

Wood and Brown Will Talk at Meeting of Quadranglers Club

The regular meeting of the Quadranglers Club will be held tomorrow night at 7:30 in the Quadrangler room in Chambers
building, at which time Professors W. W. Wood and C. G. Brown will give reports.

Enjoy Old Fashioned Square Dance

Teachers and Students Dance To Antiquated Version Of Big Apple

Away with the Big Apple! Three rousing cheers for the good old square dance! Those who have the notion that
square dancing is old-fashioned or out of date would need just one session to convince them otherwise. Or at least
only one such enjoyable session.able session as the local Civic Club sponsored last Saturday in the new high school gym,
with Skit McConnell and Des Harron calling the figures in true old-time style. A formal report to the faculty on
their trip to northern colleges was made by the instrumental trio of two guitars and a fiddle with that picturesque
and infectious rhythm which made "good old-time" square dancing really old-fashioned.

Some time ago, Professor Wood and Dr. Brown were sent out to observe other colleges of the north, which compared
with Davidson in size, and find out something of the arrangements and qualifications of these colleges. Their report will be
made to members of the Quad Wranglers Club, instead of the regular faculty meeting, with the hope that there will
be more discussion and questioning. Dr. Cumming, of the English department, has just left on the same kind of tour,
visiting several colleges in the New England states. Among the colleges Dr. Cumming will visit are: Wesleyan University in Connecticut,
Colgate in New York, Swarthmore in Pennsylvania, and Princeton University in New Jersey. Dr. Cumming, while on his stay at
these colleges, will be entertained by the English department and will make a study on the arrangements of the colleges.

Prof. Patton New Anesthetic Used as Subject of Talk

Cyclopropane, one of the newest anesthetics, was the subject of a lecture Professor Avery Patton of the chemistry department gave
before Gamma Sigma Epsilon, honorary chemical fraternity. Professor Patton cited the discovery of the anesthetic properties of cyclopropane, a gas
derived from petroleum products, by research students of Purdue University in 1930. Since its discovery, this new sleep-producing gas has
risen rapidly in the esteem and use of modern surgeons. There is much yet to be learned about this powerful
new "knockout drop," but so far all experiments have demonstrated it to be better in many respects than either the
well-known ether or ethylene gas.

Professor Patton devoted the major part of his lecture to the technical discussion of the methods of preparation of the
anesthetic and the difficulties encountered in the separation of the gas from its many impurities. Many interesting points in the
chemistry of the various reactions employed were brought out by Professor Patton as he followed the development of cyclopropane from
the natural gas in the oil fields to the patient secure against the pain and mental anguish induced by the
surgeon's knife. The lecture presented the results of research carried on by the chemists working in cooperation with the medical
men in an attempt to better the condition of humanity. It painted a picture of the research chemist diametrically opposed
to the popular conception—not poison gas to bring torture but a merciful, humane gas which brings the (Continued on Page
Six)

in the Straw." Both College Swing and the Big Apple are based on the principle of square dancing, although neither
is quite as strenuous as a good fast square dance, which combines them both and calls for both endurance and
agility. Anyone who took part in Saturday's festivities can testify to the lively crowd of dancers and informality. It was
the order of the day as soon as feet began to pat and hands clap in tune with the catchy
strains of "Turkey in the Straw."

Courtesy Charlotte Observer.

Louis Untermeyer, noted author and lecturer, has been secured by the lecture committee of Davidson College to speak here on
Tuesday, March 22. Mr. Untermeyer's subject will be "The American Arts." The dance was enlivened by the heel tapping and
shuffling of old-timers and the compelling cries of the final "promenade."

To Try Dade

Dave McLean Leads Caddies

Caddy-Master McLean Forces Union on Caddies

The Eumenean Society held their meeting Friday night at 7 P.M. in Eu Hall. Several papers were read and initiations
were held, the main feature of the program being a mock trial. Many business items were discussed. There were in
all five papers of application read by their applicants and eight new men were initiated into the order. Their names
have not yet been revealed by number.

Mock Trial

The main issue of the evening was in the form of a mock trial of Fitzhugh Dade. The charge dealt
with gross negligence and general indifference to the Eumenean Society. The aforesaid charge was presented by the vice president. The
defendant then proceeded to defend himself. Bob Kellogg acted as prosecutor. Willie White, whom Dr. W. B. Lingle styles the
philosopher of the group, said, "It ain't fair to us little boys that've paid for our license for the others
to come in and take our caddie fees." Master McLean is doing much to promote honesty among his charges. One
of his cardinal rules, strictly enforced, is: "Never pick up a lost ball until it has stopped rolling."

Plan For Reception

An informal discussion was also held on any matters that might arise. One of the foremost in hand at present
is plans for a reception and meeting with a similar organization of some of the surrounding girls' schools. This matter
has not been definitely settled and plans for any specific date have not been laid.

(Continued on Page 5)

Drink Pasteurized MILK

IT'S SAFE

MOORESVILLE CREAMERY

Orange Juice at Student Store

PHONE 205

Davidson Barber Shop

FREE DELIVERY

Coach McEver and Mrs. Thane MacDonald (left) enjoy themselves at the Civic League square dance held in the high school
gym last Saturday. Above, Major A. L. Ballard "swings his lady" to the tune of "Put On Your Old Grey
Bonnet," rendered by the three-piece string band. Members of the community and surrounding country gathered to aid the Civic League
in their drive for funds.

Square Dance Is Given By Davidson Civic Club

Beaty Speaks On Patriotism

Prof. Beaty Pleads All to Be Loyal to U. S.

The speaker at the presenting very ably the argument in favor of Christian patriotism in what he addressed.

Registration Starts Early

high school class

Repaired and BUFF SHOE

All Kinds of Leather Work

Professors Make Talks In Rock Hill

Foreman, Gwynn, Cumming, Lilly Attend Meeting at Winthrop College

Tuesday, March 8, Dr. Price H. Gwynn, Dr. A. L. Cumming, and Professor Lilly made a trip to Rock Hill
as guests of Winthrop College. They attended the American University meeting and then made a (Continued on Page 6)

Dr. Macy Will sponsor

Dr. Stough Re-Appointed

"High Flyers"

Thurs.-Fri. March 16-17

Mon.-Tues. March 21-22

"Ebb Tide"

CAROLINA THEATRE

Mooresville, N. C.

Goods Groceries

Radio Supplies

Hardware

M. H. GOODRUM & CO.

Zenith & RCA Radios
