Page Eight THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, NOV. 9, 1938

New Fashions Flashed To Sheiks
Many New Innovations Lead Fall Parade Of Styles For Campus

To the sartorial zealots (style-mad freshmen) among you, this article is written. Have you seen that strictly British “Page-Schooner” slouch
hat which originated at Princeton recently? If you haven't, drag it into Tate-Brown’s and take a look. It's just the
thing for the rainy weather we've been getting lately. Tate-Brown is also featuring a half-length military cloth coat with a
fly front. It is definitely the smart thing to wear in natural shades or camel's hair colors. This coat provides
all the warmth necessary in this climate and gives a dressy look.

That Bill Quick, the super-salesman on the third floor at J. Jones Co., issues an invitation to all Davidson students
to come up and see him some time. Marion Davis is showing a new line of suits that should fill
the need along sport and dressy lines. This is the Don Richard's of Hollywood line, a brand which is making
a sensational showing this season. The extreme drapes with broad shoulders and full chest improve one’s appearance immensely. Along these
lines, they offer more comfort than any styles ever produced in men’s clothes. The patterns seem to lean to the
diagonals and tick weaves. These patterns in green, grey-green, and blue-green have had great acceptance for fall, and Marion Davis
has a full selection of the mentioned patterns, colors, and styles.

Corduroy bush jackets and herringbone sweaters are leading this season, and those to be found at the National Shirt Shop
are just the thing. Their maroon, green, brown, and wine jackets are quite flashy, yet practical. Drop in and look
over National’s complete stock of sweaters, jackets, and fancy socks. You're sure to find what you want there.

PI GAMMA MU
[Continued from Page Four]

at the University of Chicago. Since 1930, he has been the head of the Social Science Department at Duke University.

JUSTIFICATION BY FAITH
[Continued from Page Four]

First, it came about through a Covenant of Works which God established with Man. God entered into a covenant of
works with us upon the condition of perfect obedience to His laws and His will; God expects us to keep
all of His commandments and laws, which, of course, we cannot do. If we follow these rules, we go to
Heaven as a reward; if we do not, there is no hope for us,” said Dr. Fairley. “The way that
Justification comes about,” Dr. Fairley continued, “is through the second Covenant of Faith and Grace.” Though we cannot follow all
the laws of God in this world, and though we lie helplessly by the wayside, Christ has taken upon His
shoulders the burden of our work. Christ has done our work for us, and He has established a Covenant of
Grace with us; “God says that if we accept what Jesus has done for us, He will give us Heaven
as a reward for the work which was furnished by Christ.” This is the true Covenant of Grace. All we
have to do is believe in Christ who did our jobs for us, and we will be saved. Even in
this small way, some of us are not able to fulfill the Covenant of Grace—“The Covenant of Grace, where God,
in His infinite love, has provided a Saviour; that a faith in Jesus will justify us with God,” Dr. Fairley
concluded, “is the way we are justified through Christ our Lord.”

STUDENT BODY DOWNS MOTION
[Continued from Page One]

this year, and it is hoped that students will continue to be free to express their opinions.

COURT ACTS AS CULPRIT
[Continued from Page Four]

Gene Liipfert and Kenneth McLean. George Richmond and Gray Hunter represent the Juniors, and Dick Arnold and Frank Barker represent
the Sophomore class.

DAVIS, GRAHAM SHINE
[Continued from Page Seven]

combination had its turn pushing the Terriers around. Again it was a long pass that set it up, but this
time it was from Frank Harrison to Bob McClellan on the 1-yard line. From there, Harrison plunged it over.

Dr. Ellwood, president emeritus of Pi Gamma Mu, officially installed the Davidson College Chapter and spoke on the future of
the social sciences. Social Sciences, Dr. Ellwood said, have just begun to develop and have a great future before them.
It is the duty of each member of Pi Gamma Mu to carry on this work of bettering human relationships.

Plans were made for a meeting to be held two weeks from Friday on November 18.

Announcing the Opening
Of the Completely Modern and Up-to-Date
BREAKFASTS — LUNCHEONS — DINNERS —
We Welcome The Davidson Student Body
201-203 W. Trade Street

years of experience in handling a most discriminating clientele enables us to do full justice to the orders you send
us.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Inspector manager of the Students’ Store. Carolina Department of Labor. Piedmont Building in Charlotte, 1930, was recently appointed in charge
of the Charlotte office for the enforcement of the wage-hour law. Gaffney was a First Lieutenant in the R.O.T.C. and
a member of the Scabbard and Blade Honorary Military Fraternity; he was also

For the last five years, Mr. Gaffney has been senior inspector and factory inspector for the North He will maintain
his office in the (Photo—Courtesy of Charlotte Observer). William F. Gaffney, a graduate of Davidson College in While at Davidson
Mr.

LOCAL MUSEUM
[Continued from Page Five]

heads that have been collected from all over the world. There are some tablets ondisplay from Iraq, Mexico, Ur of
the Chaldees, some of which date back to 2400 BC. A collection of geographic models and several genetic displays, clay
and along with some miscellaneous exhibitions, Dr. Porter says that if he only had more room he would put several
more exhibits on display. are to be seen.

SUNDAY SCHOOL LED BY BEATY
(Continued from Page Five)

some object of veneration revered because of its higher station. In concluding, Professor Beaty pointed out that the law is
still retroactive, that the superior should honor, protect, and set an example for his inferior. From this, Prof. Beaty drew
a practical lesson in that college men should set an example for the rest.

Bill Johnston Praises Spirit

The seventh pep meeting of the year was held Friday night, November the fourth, the eve of the Wofford game,
in the gymnasium, with Bill Johnston the principal speaker. The students were led in several hearty yells; and then short
talks were made by Marvin Sink and Charles Allcott, members of the freshmen class. Next, an address was made by
Bill Johnston, Davidson's line stalwart, who praised the members of the student body for their whole-hearted support of the team
and asked for their continued support in the future. He also stressed the importance of this week's game with V.M.I.
After the singing of “O, Davidson!” the students were dismissed with the plea that they attend the V.M.I. pep meeting
in full force this week.

BODY CHOOSES BLAZER
(Continued from Page One)

and ordering is working fine. The blazer will be in style. The tops—the last word and cloth. The committee would
like to request the cooperation of all concerned in paying their deposits.

AVON PLAYERS
(Continued from Page One)

in son; Bianca, daughter of Baptista, Doris Edwards; Katherine, daughter of Baptista, Murial Ballick; Hortensio, suitor to Bianca, Scott Tennison;
Gremio, suitor to Bianca, Lee Parsons; Petruchio, a gentleman of Verona, Walter Black; Grumio, servant to Petruchio, Harold Selman; Curtis,
servant in Petruchio’s house, Eugene Du Bois; Nathaniel, Gregory, Phillip, Tailor, and Pedant are all servants to Petruchio; Vincentio, father
to Lucentio, Lee Parsons. There are three acts in the play. The curtain will be lowered for one minute between
scenes and five minutes between acts.

Dr. Foreman Addresses Delta Phi Alpha Monday

German Fraternity To Hear Autobiography Of Swiss Ex-convict

Dr. Kenneth J. Foreman, Bible professor, will review “Mea Culpa,” the life story of a German Swiss ex-convict, at the
next meeting of Delta Phi Alpha, scheduled for Monday night. The meeting, which will start promptly at 8 o'clock at
a place not yet announced, will be the only session of the honorary German fraternity during November. “Mea Culpa,” according
to a notice sheet sent to all members, is not a novel, but the authentic autobiography of a German Swiss
prisoner. The theme of Dr. Foreman’s address will be the way in which the author of the book found a
triumphant religious experience even in bonds. The answering of the roll call with German quotations, a fraternity tradition, will not
take place at next Monday’s meeting, but members were urged by President Sam Webb to have suitable sayings ready for
the December meeting of the organization. Special mimeographed sheets, giving the program and urging attendance, were sent to each member
by Walter Kuntz, treasurer of the group.

GROUP MEETS
(Continued from Page One)

are expected to be present at the meeting of the Executive Committee of the Trustees on Friday at four P.M.
At this meeting, the business will be merely routine as it is the regular semi-annual meeting of this committee. Pres.
W. L. Lingle and other administrative officers will have reports to make, the work of the year will be reviewed
in general, and plans made for the future.

AMONG THE GREEKS
(Continued from Page Five)

Washington where he joined his parents for a short stay.

Phi Delta Theta

Brothers Miller Sproull and Bob Reinhardt dated on the campus this weekend while Brothers Mark Lillard and Read Harmon journeyed
to Jacksonville, Fla. Brother Moore visited the chapter on Sunday and Lock Hunter and Bill Boyd traveled back to Rock
Hill, S. C., with him Sunday night after the feed.

Kappa Sigma

Brother Pittman went to Fayetteville after attending the Club dance in Charlotte Friday night, while Bill Ross went to the
dance in Converse. Brothers Wyatt, Scott, and Watkins attended the I.R.S. dance in Winston-Salem. Brother Gaw went to Greensboro, and
a feed was held after the Wofford game Saturday afternoon. Miss Helen Springs was a guest of Brother Walker over
the weekend. Sunday, the chapter was entertained by a feed with the Kappa Alphas as hosts. The two chapters will
give a joint dance Saturday night after the Homecoming.

Gaw Medicated bath brings quick relief from DRY COUGHS OR IRRITATIONS DUE TO COLDS

Throat troubled with a cold? Let a Vicks Cough Drop dissolve naturally in your mouth—and enjoy the wonderful relief that
comes as the irritated membranes are bathed with soothing medication for 12 to 15 minutes! Raspy huskiness is eased, tendency
to cough spasms checked... because a Vicks Cough Drop is actually medicated...medicated with the throat-soothing ingredients of Vicks VapoRub, famous
for relieving discomforts of colds.

MEDICATED VICKS COUGH DROPS

...the blend that can’t be copied ... the RIGHT COMBINATION of the world’s best cigarette tobaccos

Copyright 1938, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.

Wise action shots of “Whizzer” White... famous All-American football star... show what it takes to be a triple threat man.

Combination ... that’s the reason Chesterfield stands out from the others

The reason Chesterfield is different is because it combines the smoking qualities of the world’s best cigarette tobaccos in one
cigarette. It’s the right combination of these tobaccos... mild ripe home-grown and aromatic Turkish, rolled in pure cigarette paper...that makes
Chesterfield a better cigarette for you to smoke...milder and better-tasting.
