~ BY BILL MARQUESS

When things have reached such a stage that the Athletic Association is considering shifting the State and Wake Forest basketball games to Charlotte, it is time to say something about it. Of course, the Association has the best interests of Davidson at heart, but we sincerely hope that it will not see fit to carry out this move. Do you realize that if this is done not one single Big Five game will be played on the Davidson court? The financial angle is self-evident. In the past, it has been and should continue to be so. It seems unfair to the team to expect it to play all its big games off the home court.

We have now 'Cat Cagers Lick Duke To Open Conference Season

WEDNESDAY, JAN. 12, 1938.

The last two games before the holidays saw the freshmen beat their opponents. Over the two periods, they managed to spell victory for the frosh intramural season. It was their only victory. The leading scorer for the losing team was Scott, who had an exceptional game with a single foul.

In the next game, the juniors kept a clean record. Although they were behind at the three-quarter mark, they got hot in the final frame, scoring 13 points. The intramural basketball juniors won the tournament for the third time.

MODERN STUDENT STORE

(Continued from Page 1)

There have been theories about the fire. One theory is that someone might have ignited oily rags, which caused the fire by spontaneous combustion. There were no matches found, however, except safety matches.

Plumbing and Heating
R. W. DUNCAN
Phone Day 180 — Night 2028
Mooresville, N. C.

Other theories suggest that there might have been oily rags, which caused the fire by spontaneous combustion.

Shown above is the 1938 edition of the 'Cat cage team, the strongest that Davidson has had in many years. At left is Johnny Kitten Basketball Team Loses to Carolina Frosh.

Carolina's highly-heralded freshmen defeated the Davidson quintet 44-25 in the opening game of the double-header Saturday night in Charlotte. The lads from Chapel Hill scored two field goals in the opening minutes of play and the 'Kittens had piled up a lead at the half. The frosh were handicapped by the size of the Carolina five, which boasted six players over six feet tall. Wat Glamack, the six-foot-six center, led the winners with 13 points, scoring from all angles. At guard, he played a brilliant defensive game. Jimmie Hogg and Turner, though completely overshadowed by their towering opponents, turned in good games for the 'Kittens, accounting for 16 of the 25 points.

Davidson Cage Team Swamps Blue Devils; Nosed Out By Heels

Fijis Leading In Badminton

The delegation is still in the lead with no defeats charged against them. Northcross and George Jones present an unbeatable combination for the leaders. In the first match, the KA’s licked the Betas in a good match, featured by the fast play of Kenney and Schabel. Immediately following this, the Phi Gams set the Pi Kappa Phi's back in a decisive fashion, 2-0.

In probably the biggest upset of the tourney, the Sig Eps came to life and set the Kappa Sigs back in a tight match, 2-1. Vowles and Ed Cloyd furnished the needed spark. The Betas and the Pi Kappa Phi’s hooked up in the first match of round six with the Pi Kappa Phi's finally winning out 2-0. Dick Lindsay was the big noise in the victory. The Pikas and Phi Gams stole the show in the next match with a hard-fought game. The Phi Gams, however, soon had things going their way and won the match 2-0. In the last matches before this paper went to press, the KA’s, still in second place, set the up-and-coming Sig Eps back, 2-1, while the Phi Delts turned back the Sigs. Hunter and “Ras” Reinhardt turned in fine performances.

FORMER LIBRARIAN (Continued from Page 1)

The Charlotte Observer quotes Dr. Walter L. Lingle, college president, as saying, “During thirty years of connection with Davidson College, Miss Shaw rendered distinguished service and was honored and loved by the whole college community. She was the author of ‘The History of Davidson College,’ a book of more than 300 pages.”

Howard McFadyen led the Davidson wrestlers against Duke in Durham, Saturday night. This will be the Wildcats’ first Southern Conference match of the current season. Last year, the 'Cats tied for second place in the Conference. Captain McFadyen was undefeated in the heavyweight ranks and also the Conference. Davidson is out to repeat last year's decisive triumph over the Blue Devils.

Most of us lose far more incompetent friends than to devious crooks.

Bowling! Billiards!
REX RECREATION —and—
20th CENTURY BOWLING
AIR-CONDITIONED YEAR ROUND
FREE TELEPHONE

Take her out to bowl. She’ll like that! Take her where she’ll feel at home.

THE HEALTH CENTER
12114 South Tryon

BOWLING! On Saturday Nights—or any other night—take her out to bowl. Take her where she’ll feel at home.

THE CHARLOTTE BOWLING CENTER
112 W. First St.

The best team in many years, a team which has a good chance of winning the Southern Conference crown. The biggest injustice will be if the team is not allowed to play on its home court.

Davidson Kitten wrestlers will open their season here Saturday when they tangle with the highly-touted Spring team. Practice sessions have been held each night under the tutelage of Charlie Parker, captain of the 1937 team. According to Parker, several of the boys have shown excellent ability and they are expected to put up a good battle against their opponents.

Men who will try out include: Fred Lowrance, John Donaldson, Joe Wilson, Raymond McDaniel, John Moore, Norris Erb, and others.Davidson’s lone po-; Whitney Reynolds, Ed Brown, Bob tit] Att season is still 27 ay Fi ° 7 Bratidon, Hank: Bahanson, Ji 30; n the 1937 all-state team] fq. ] val y req pe, Panton, Tank Bahanson, Jim Be nits SAL Pr eserare at popular vote of football Mhisnes eal fin, and Lantham Latta Buc is intel fans in the Charlotte Observer. The Jarium Springs is expected to Du »_be out tat poll brought an avalanche The Davidson soccer team closed | DUt a trong array of talent on the tute arts ‘he-got ren ballots from many college .cam-Ja “fairly succes eason just be- | mat with several state champions | Davir t week. Undoubtedly, puses Teeny Laffer was named apa ; id they deserve |@Mong them. In two matches last the | will play better ball lat- x : e—tlha-Othhane. emeroed: victor. - a ane quarterback on the second team because of the way eg ie ie ica Wee sa aceele t m that uit | Player Position School have I | weer to the oe ; ious cei (Bershaksbiid NoGilitrantean tie on yeh ts fara | hi eer ossible for them iota. eee ; ‘0 pe ee eel Bartos=Tackle N. C.Jin the eyes of al = a EEtilt > Duke F ; 1 fe Ve tar am Of course, all are waiting with XN ¢€ ehean eames |LVViLCNA-—(GlArdncuue anne } i the Irse of ‘ Pemednsie Si bated breath to see what happens 1 Tackl mnie i i 7 1 aq os ° ® : 4: t red nine p to tine Below are the intra-mural all- _ when the injured Jim Waller re- Williams——End Davidian WEA Te SUE RRIS SOR IE ReOTIG turns to the Wake Forest line-up care : : ! PL Sees ©)star basketball teams chosen by * Hudgins—End Duke | outstanding men on the team this ¢ “ ; . ; ! ath ace) nett : referees Dan Iverson and Junior Maye he will be the spark yan Hackney—Quarter G Duke] year are: Sam Cothran, the player \icorn Wa traces tne seasons: goings Ub ae ilinski— Halt... .N.@ Start iger: Howard Naebadyen, Joc ' thus far the Baptists have failed eitden Halt 5 N “@ eee ee ne De ; i First Team (hushiote av vec Geena lenin losing ttle a =Ni Kellam, Tommie Harnberger, Oscar Points Player Class Burnette—Full —_ i ---N, C.b Armstrong and Eddie Steere. : an 5 ior to Duke 31-38. State was unim- | Aire es ut feat re et ataleb ides any He 3 r A \ tw men wrpelpatec v. > Kitt mye pressive in an early victory over 2 i ti Hh ! re 41 Bill Hamilton -------. Frosh . . . . | it £ mit his year >? ~ . ,2Ar > Pn) - the University of Georgia five that | 42 Spencer Goodman —-___ Senior jj | tr } I ore | 2 “*harlie S : i lost to South Carolina. Ca rd Chanced I re 1 more 29 Charlie Sample -.-s-- Junior ; ; Pal 2 | diligent out f ractice | 35 Apie: Means 2---4s---. septic Washington and Lee, last year's & eowerneae late [this year r before, and the Second Team champs, have been pursued with - : ; | Ree ea 1 > yee a s Wofford College will replace; Mannerin- which they -plaved Sshow- | 27 Jim Hartzog Senior tough luck that has Coach Russ “| ue ; ' hi; - s slbok ry ‘ se 3 A ; . - Clemson on the 1938 Davidson foot-|e¢d quite a bit of improvement over} 23 Bill Marquess ~------ Junior Young going about with a iong ‘ ry | 2 r . . face the HA H rted moan-|P#ll schedule, according to a re-| Previous years 33 Noalescotte cscs cote: Soph | « -! nese days. e sta eC oan- } ' 1 >? - ing wl tl ‘saralhe at F cent announcement made by a Soccer has-beensanuch more high- | 33 George Jones--------- Junior len they 10k ie center ; j He it re tt Fil a ; letic Director Norman Sh 1. | ly organized this year than ever be- | 22 Murray Harlan Frosh j p out o le game late Cute | = f ales Abawan tha dita a (is Mim. ah Ihis ¢hange was necessitated by a | fore, and there are plans being — : eetanes ett on conflict in the Clemson schedule formed that will organize a Car 7 venue Senna ay dea pet are4 Spessard by at least one-half. Then a uot aE " lem a A ult lf Fb st 1 \ iat " HA Une SDN habe tale p ted Bill Borries suffered a knee in C art er dhange Hee ae uth Fs nas ooccet sociation, ewer good business men, but more. lirys andi iseout. fi Sah ina game BEBIHAU placed at 52: teens on : ; a son moved to nter to be Against. Elon, the ; nm , ed Sun te r te be a [7 } 1 6 the te reo : ue i nere sented only ‘two members of -SASUES OL UNS GnnunLJalreuers FAUL & CRYMES, Inc. club that downed Carolina in the Agee Sporting Goods * a Conference finals last year, Spes- i os ae ie ue ps h been suggested, but no cause 415 South Tryon St. Charlotte, N. C. sard and Kit Carson. has been assigned to the fire. oy so tad ae Ms a safe to predict As soon as t fire was over and] @w® = ri 1 Wns & th a Me Setjan Sen the building cleaned of the char- noe He on ea poUrBey, aneyred and ruined materials, carpen- | |= - SSS | Wat pes sii rents like Cow ters work on the rebuilding | \f] TODAY S POPULAR SPORT mouthful for any quint to chew. j;work for the convenience of the DeLuxe Ice Cream Mooresville, N, C. Phone 56 I= fe TTT RTT Min ms El ages representing many years of which will monuments to her i historical research, be one of the life.” Davidson’s crack varsity quin tet romped to a surprisingly ea Duke’s Blue Devil Winston-Salem last Wednesd ta it night, but were turned back 3 738 Thar pao 'by North Carolina’s White Phar tour et: x J hoje : . : Round five and six of the i ‘toms Saturday night in a heart terfraternity batminton have been | breaking overtime game. Playing on the floor of the Re W workit % ° . nolds High School gym ston-Salem, the smooth Ned In by Iverson an |the lanky “Footsie” Cowan, got off to an early lead on two shots Iverson and J. D. Hicks and were never pressed by the outclass: Methodists... The Davidson | were breaking and passing fast and time after time Iverson Cowan would break in for perfe crip shots as Tice and Hicks would break to the corner and feed the: the first half Kiesewetter Late in }rang the bell twice with two beau tiful long shots, and the ‘Cats }the floor at the half with a 20-12 lead After the intermission the flashy ‘Cats came back to rack uy if score of points while al the Dukes only ten. TI the Shepard coached boys showed marked? in another lowing defensive play of provement. Thriller Carolina Saturday night at the Chi Armory, a fighting team of Caro- lina Phantoms nosed out the 'Cats in the closing seconds of the cl zames ever seen It been Davidson's game just as ea ily, but that fickle old lady called an extra period in one of osest and most exciting Charlotte on a or, could have Luck—or whoever decides . those things seemed ‘to favor Captain Earl Ruth and his white-clad mates. The largest crowd in the history of Charlotte basketball, 2,500 fans, witnessed the — thrill- soaked tilt. ~ Captain Ruth opened the scor- ing with a looping one-handed shot from the side of the court, but soon after Cowan and Iverson began to hit the basket, giving the : lead. The lead see-sawed back and forth through- the half, and the Phan- toms had a one-point lead at the Ss a momentary first out half. After the half the ’Cats, = ed by three spectacular shots by Cowan, built up a six point lead, only to have it wiped out in the closing seconds. of play as Ber hak and Ruth accounted for tying four points. In the ext: period Iverson rang the bell wit a perfect long shot, but Phantoms came from behind in th last seventy seconds to win on Wor ley’s crip shot. A New and Grand Romantic Team CHARLOTTE’S COZIEST TH Balcony 25c Anytime EATRE TIT ATT LU LMT 117 Garland Court to SCHOOLS and ; rogram Sooklets fh, E 3 ES A COMPLETE PRIN |e t Service Dieta PRINTING PRINTERS EXTRAORDINARY SEND US YOUR Reasonable Prices yompany Charlotte, N. C. COLLEGES ‘ders; =s Ghtekati ic TING SERVICE TILL TT T aaa LULL