Page Two The Davidsonian

Founded By the Class of 1915

1938 . Member 1939
Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Printed By The
STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON AVE, NEW YORK, N.Y.
CHICAGO BOSTON LOS ANGELES SAN FRANCISCO

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1879.

Editor-in-Chief
Jack Abernathy

Business Manager
Herb Austin

Managing Editor
Jack Holland

News Editor
Karl Hudson

Sports Editor
Sam Spencer

Feature Editor
Tom Casal

Literary Editor
Ovid Bell

Assistant Business Manager
Joe Calvin

Advertising Manager
Wesley Coghill

Circulation Manager
Perry Sloan

Collection Manager
Henry Maker

Staff Photographer
Walt Kunz

BUSINESS STAFF
Jim Currie
Julian Loker
Tom Ross
Bud Gallimore

There are millions who would like to know the answer to this question, and about as many who have the answer. My answer is added to the rest. Hitler is such a conceited idiot that he feels that he cannot afford to back down now that he has gone this far. In order to keep his position in Germany, he has to divert the attention of the people to other things. The Jews furnished his first target. Then Austria. Now Czechoslovakia. As long as he keeps the Germans’ attention off himself he is safe. However, I believe that this time he has bitten off more than he can chew. Czechoslovakia has no small army. A million men cannot be easily brushed aside, especially since these men are determined. Also, I imagine that Hitler would feel right uncomfortable if, when his army was marching against Czechoslovakia, France should attack him from the other side. England has put in her application to enter the fight, and Russia is on the waiting list. These armies form a not unformidable opposition. Hitler should not forget the United States, either, because although Uncle Sam talks a good line of pacifism, he is not able to mind his own business—that is judging from his past record. In his address Monday afternoon, Hitler said that the Sudeten was the last land he would request—in Europe. Those last two words seem very clearly to indicate to me that now is the time for a showdown.

BR Plyler

Our First Issue...
We of The Davidsonian staff were considerably disappointed in our first issue. It fell far short of our expectations and of the standard set by past issues. It was most unfortunate that rush week and the publication date coincided, and most of the trouble can be traced to that cause. The purpose of this editorial is, however, not to alibi. Beginning with this issue we hope to cut out all mistakes and to turn out a paper that will equal in caliber that which won an All-American ranking last year. Again we want to solicit the cooperation of the faculty and student body. Perhaps you know some news item or material for a feature story which may have been overlooked. If so, please tell us about it. No matter how trivial they may seem to you, we welcome any suggestions or criticisms and will try to profit by them. But whatever you do, please don’t criticize and sneer at the paper behind our backs. Remember that a great deal of work is done by freshmen who have never had any newspaper experience at all. Nearly all colleges which publish good papers have a department of journalism to do the editing and managing. Since Davidson cannot afford such a department, we can only do our best under the circumstances. If you think that you can do better work than some of the members of the staff, there is a place for you on it. That isn’t just idle chatter either. We mean it.

We Apologize...
There are two apologies which we feel that we owe and wish to make publicly. One is to Professor McGeachy, of the History Department. Last week in the article about the new professors his name was carelessly omitted. Mr. McGeachy is a Davidson graduate and took away with him one of the highest scholastic averages ever made here. He then spent a year studying at the University of North Carolina and three years at the University of Chicago. He has completed all the examinations for his Ph.D. degree and is at present working on his thesis. The other is to the members of our honorary athletic fraternity, Sigma Delta Psi. Last year they won the United States Championship in a twelve-event track and field meet open to all sixty-two chapters of this fraternity. A sub-head in last week’s paper announced that they had taken third place. Certainly our boys deserve all the credit we can give them for winning this nationwide contest.

With Malice Toward All
One of the most important things talked about on the campus today—except, of course, football—is the European situation. The Central Powers again are ready to start their march toward their “Place in the Sun.” The Allies, for why not call them as they were called in the Great War, are arming themselves to the teeth to repel the invasion. Hitler is the one about whom the whole mix-up revolves. Where will he stop? He brazenly admits that he is going to invade other lands—probably in South America—in the last two words of the sentence quoted above. Eventually there will be a showdown between dictator countries and democracies, and for one I am hoping that it will come now in as painless and bloodless a way as possible. And in the event of war, may Uncle Sam, for once in his life, keep his head.

Stuart R. Oglesby.

In the Groove
By TOM PERRIN

RUSH. Rush week’s a thing of the past now, but the campus columnist who totally ignores it ought to have his typewriter slowly pulled apart key by key. That’s our opinion, anyway. The antics of the Greeks and the would-be Greeks can certainly supply plenty of solid space-filler.

PLEDGED. For example, you must have heard of that amiable freshman who made the rounds of all fraternity houses. No names mentioned, of course, but this to defend their country to the last breath.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS STUDENTS FOR EXAMINATIONS

Your Film Thursday, Sept. 29
“BLOCKADE” — Madeleine Carroll and Henry Fonda.
Out of the drama of today’s heroes comes a great heart tale of two in love. One of the most forceful pictures in the present Spanish Civil War cycle, this is a velvety texture of romance and high adventure, superbly produced, superbly directed by William Dieterle (of “Zola”). The romantic scenes are portrayed by the beautiful Madeleine Carroll and Henry Fonda.

Friday & Saturday, Sept. 30-Oct. 1
“THE VALLEY OF THE GIANTS” — Wayne Morris, Claire Trevor, Frank McHugh and Jack LaRue.
Wayne Morris has the lead in this story of the fight between the California pioneers and the lumber barons to save the redwood forest. Morris gives an excellent performance—collaborating with Claire Trevor, Frank McHugh and Jack LaRue. This fast-moving picture is tops.

Mon. & Tues. Oct. 2 & 3
“TOO HOT TO HANDLE” — Clark Gable and Myrna Loy.
Too Hot To Handle is a hectic story of the vicissitudes of the life of a newsreel cameraman (Clark Gable). Sounded by his boss for more exciting material, Gable fakes a Chinese bombing. It’s a sensation and wins his boss’s approval. Rival cameramen suspect the hoax, plot to expose him. They enlist the services of a famous aviatrix (Myrna Loy). She meets Gable when he purposely crashes a plane and then rescues her from the burning machine. From then on she has her troubles and there is plenty of flying, shooting (camera) before the unbeatable clinch.

Stolen Thunder
Remember—
Eight qualities desirable about a girl:
1. Dress well.
2. Don’t eat much on dates.

...found himself surrounded by a number of determined-looking brothers on several occasions. Sure, he liked them. Yes, he’d met them all—good fraternity. Well, it was nice they liked him, too. Yes, he hoped he’d see it their way, too. Would he shake hands with the boys? Of course; didn’t mind at all. Anyway, so the story goes, that happened some nine times. We can’t say just what he did Friday night, but we hear he took in a movie and went to bed early. (No, pal, we don’t confirm our stories—might eliminate too many).

GUSHER. Passing one festive lodge hall last week, we happened on a scene which somehow impressed us considerably. On the porch in a swing, a charming and sophisticated damsel was laying it on pretty thick to a rather nervous young man. “Why, you don’t look like a freshman,” she gushed. “I thought you were a senior at least.” That’s all we caught, but it was plenty. Those words, spoken, we’ll bet, for the fifty-thousandth time on the court last fortnight, remind us of human gullibility in general. Girls dishing it out in such indigestible lumps, and boys, heaven help ’em, lapping it up! Ho hum.i LUTZ

That recent cheerleader election brings up something we ought to pass on to you. It is a sort of tradition, and one Horace G. Ewes, Jr., of Hickory, is responsible. In any student body election you can think of, Lutz can be counted on to poll several votes, and this cheerleader business was no exception. Several ballots are usually signed with his name, too. The odd part of all this is that this is the second year that Lutz hasn't been a student here, and consequently over half the student body haven't even seen him.

OVERHEARD
"Say, that’s a nice new suit you've got on. Didn't they have it in your size?"

1. Pleasant conversationalist.
2. Don't eat much on dates.
3. Don't be snooty.
4. Don't eat much on dates.
5. Be a good dancer.
6. Don't eat much on dates.

North Ward.

Advice For the Women—
Keep away from track men—they're unusually fast.
Never take dates with biology students—they enjoy cutting up too much.
The football hero is all right—he'll tackle anything.
You can trust a tank man—he'll dive in and do his best.
The tennis man is harmless—he enjoys a racket.
Watch out for the baseball man—he hits and runs.
Be careful of the dramatic member—he usually has several good lines.
Don't play cards with a civil engineer—he's a bridge specialist.
Always get the band members to talk about themselves—they enjoy blowing their own horn.
-Winthrop Johnsonian.

Quintuplets—and Then Some—
"I've just been bit by a dog and I'm worried. I hear whenever a dog bites you, whatever the dog has, you get."
"Boy, then you have a right to worry."
"Why?"
"I suppose that’s one of the horrid paintings you call art."
"No, that’s a mirror."
-Los Angeles Collegian.

The good old days—when only ONE man in Europe thought he was Napoleon—I. A. C.

Desperate—
"I hear your friend has a job."
"Yeah, but it’s a shame what some folks will do for money."
-Banter.

The girl who marries for money is bought; but the girl who marries for love is sold.
-Exchange.

A Professor in one of the eastern schools gave his reasons for classifying women as angels—they are always up in the air, always harping on something, and they never have an earthly thing to wear.
-L. of A.C.

A Hollywood Paper Says—
Very often a strawberry blonde with a peach complexion and cherry lips becomes the apple of a man’s eye.
-Los Angeles Collegian.

Many people mistake activity for efficiency.

A sappy spine cannot support responsibility.

Self-neglect is just as big a fault as self-love.

"That dog just had eleven puppies."
-Stolen.

She may be sweet no small amount
When her forgiveness you crave;
But there's one thing on which you can count—
She'll never forget she forgave.
-Crimson and White.

Loves there a man with soul so dead
Who never to himself has said,
"To heck with studies. I'm going to bed!"
-Indiana Daily Student.

To get what you want, know what you want.

Taking your ease doesn't lead to Easy Street.

A stitch in time saves embarrassing exposure.

Too much of a good thing does woe.

Marriage is the only lottery worth preserving.

Great art is neither old nor new—it is ageless.

Clarence C. Clark of New York University appeared on the first educational television broadcast ever sent over the airwaves.

To complete all of the courses offered by the University of Illinois would take one individual at least 150 years.

Alabama Polytechnic Institute sororities recently staged a Go-To-Church contest.

Jim, an Ohio Wesleyan University employee, has been caretaker of the college swimming pool for 20 years.

Davidson, N.C. ($1.50)

NAME
ADDRESS
CITY
STATE

"Arms and the Loaf" was the title of this year's campus musical at Wesleyan University.

The Kappa Kappa Gamma sorority softball team defeated the Sigma Chi fraternity team at the University of New Mexico.

"Not to Bedazzle" is the title of a new book of poetry on college life written by Vance Ludwig, a Miami University student.

Students of Lincoln Memorial University have organized an "Association for the Advancement of Killing" with the slogan, "More Killing and Less Mangling."

Waiting for instructions seldom helped a man to achieve greatness.

No man can be considered great who does not move until he is pushed.

Laugh and the world laughs with you; weep and you streak your rouge.

If you want to commit the crime of killing time, be sure it is your own.

Fill your mind with useful knowledge and you will avoid empty words.

Make the past the pinnacle from which to peer further into the future.

The most utterly lost of all days is that on which you have not laughed.

A green employee can do more work than a blue one.

Be proficient—you can profit from the same letters.

Students - Alumni - Parents
SUBSCRIPTION OFFER
Business Manager, The Davidsonian:
I am enclosing a check for One Dollar and a Half for one year's subscription to the Davidsonian.