WEDNESDAY, FEB

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Page Three

Candid Camera catches dancers unawares at Davidson's Mid-Winter Dances last weekend as they swung to the torrid rhythm of Bunny
Berigan and his Band.

Soap Dispensers Installed

The college, realizing the need for a system of soap dispensing in Chambers building, has recently installed in all the
lavatories a new method which it is hoped will prove convenient and economical.

The new method is a modern invention which has proven quality in other schools and has had a wide sale.
"The soap," says Mr. Jackson, "is dispensed by the turn of the handle which grinds off a limited amount of
the soap that comes out in powdered form. The quality of this soap is the same as well-known soaps on
the market, with the perfume omitted."

(1) However, Philip "Booby" Arrowsmith, president of the Pan-Hellenic Council, seems to have been prepared for the photographer as he
assists charming Miss "Way-Way" Lumpkin, Columbia, S.C., in transferring her baits from evening wrap to dress. Miss Lumpkin led the
dance figure Friday evening with Mr. Arrowsmith.

(2) "Ooooo, Mr. LeGrand," whispers Miss Anna May Feuchtenberger, one of the best dancers on the floor, to "Baron Waste,"
as they swing to the torrid trumpet of Berigan.

(3) Gilbert Palmer must be discussing the little matter of his heart and hers as he rests beneath the seal
of Kappa Alpha, of which Gil is president.

(4) Miss Magdelene Keistler, Charlotte, "catches a short one" behind Johnny Sadler’s back just after the "Heifer Highball" figure. Miss
Keistler, one of the beautiful sponsors, represented Kappa Alpha fraternity with Mr. Sadler.

(5) Miss Dorothy Davis, Oxford, and Jerry Harris, Oxford, take their milk "straight" after the Friday evening figure. This couple
represented Sigma Phi Epsilon in the Pan-Hellenic figure.

(6) Maestro Chubby King, of Davidson College’s own jazz band, and Miss Eleanor Echols, Greensboro, are preparing to leave for
a night about town in which Mr. King may garner choice tidbits for his weekly column. King and Miss Echols
represented Kappa Sigma in the figure.—(Photos by courtesy of Charlotte Observer).

Will Osborne and Band Attract Davidson Men

Number of Students Hear Famous Band in Charlotte Last Week

The aisles were crowded with a goodly number of Davidson students last week to hear Will Osborne and his orchestra
at the St. Andrews College concert. Osborne, who organized his original band, attracted many young people to the event.

Notice!

The assiduous efforts of the Program Committee to find the best talent available for the connoisseurs of telepathy, mediumship, and
clairvoyance in the Quadwranglers Club have resulted in notable success. "Colin the Magician" (Mr. C. S. Smith, '39) has agreed
to present his repertoire before the club next Thursday, Feb. 17, at 7:30 P.M.

W. P. CUMMING, Secretary, The Quadwranglers Club.

PALMERS' Optometrists EYE-SIGHT SPECIALISTS DR. JAMES A. PALMER DR. BELLE W. PALMER Broken glasses and refractions mailed C.O.D. same day.
302 North Tryon Street Charlotte, N.C.

Colin Talks With Singer

Gail Reese Becomes Very Popular With Davidson Students

"Mike," said one Davidson gentleman who had temporarily stopped holding his partner to watch and listen to Gail Reese, who
was on the microphone as well as one of the admired band singers.

Likes Golf

Crosby Favorite

Dr. Cumming Revises Phi Beta Kappa Index

ANNOUNCE BIRTH

"The supplying of these new dispensers fills a need in Chambers that existed for a number of years," Mr. Jackson
said.

Davidson’s Only Groceries and Merchandise Store

M. P. Henderson

GULF GAS & OIL

PROMPT & CHEERFUL SERVICE

Concessionaires for the Pan-American Exposition in Dallas, Texas are being chosen from college campuses. They have learned that college men
who are not afraid to stand up and shout can outspiel the experienced barkers.

M.H. Goodrum Co.

—RADIOS—

ALL SEATS 25¢ ANYTIME

BROADWAY
