Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN WED., DEC. 14, 1938

The Davidsonian
Founded By the Class of 1915

1938 1939
Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

Member REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON AVE, NEW YORK, N.Y.
CHICAGO BOSTON LOS ANGELES SAN FRANCISCO

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879

BILL MAROQUESS... Editor-in-Chief
JOHN LATIMER... Managing Editor
Karl Hudson... News Editor
Sam Spencer... Associate Editor
Tom Casali... Sports Editor
Ovid Bell... Assistant Sports Editor
Calvin Nesley... Assistant Sports Editor
Perry Sloan... Feature Editor
Henry Baker... Assistant Feature Editor
Walt Kunz... Staff Photographer

BUSINESS STAFF
B. Piyler... Business Manager
Julian Lokey... Assistant Business Manager
Tom Hackney... Advertising Manager
Bud Gilmore... Advertising Manager
B. Currie... Circulation Manager
Ross... Circulation Manager
Julian Lokey... Collection Manager

We extend our deepest sympathy to Dr. P. H. Gwynn and Jerry Doster in the recent loss of their fathers.

Yuletide Christmas! Holidays, dances, carols, parties, old flames, mornings in bed, fireworks, Rose Bowl game, colored lights, turkey and cranberries,
no school, and again no school. It means a glorious couple of weeks when everybody's without a care in the
world and having the biggest time possible. There'll be thousands of Christmas trees, a universe of lighted stars, miles of
red ribbon, sheets and sheets of white paper, all contributing to the magnificent spectacle of an American Christmas. There'll be
literally millions of stockings for American Santa Clauses to fill, millions of presents for Mothers to wrap, millions of people
waiting in line at the stamp windows. Yes, Christmas in America is a great thing for all of us. And
so it should be. But in the midst of all our toasting of horns, crashing of fireworks, our grandiose celebration—let
us pause just a moment to think of what Christmas really means after all. On that clear and starry night
in sleepy little Palestine nineteen hundred thirty-eight years ago, there was no fanfare, no fireworks; all was calm and silent
as “the wondrous gift” that has changed the world was given. Simplicity was the theme. It’s just a serious thought
for all of us to take home. And till we meet again on January 4th, “God rest ye, merry gentlemen.”

A Little Cooperation
The main purpose of the Davidson College Y.M.C.A., according to the Secretary in the “Y” Handbook, is “to make Christ
a reality in the life of every student.” Certainly no one can say that the “Y” Cabinet has failed to
do its part in achieving this objective, but has the rest of the student body fulfilled its obligation? Recently, in
the hope and trust that the student body had fulfilled its obligation, and that Christ had become a reality to
them, the Cabinet decided after long deliberation to take a drastic and revolutionary step with the collection of this year’s
Christmas Gift Fund. Heretofore, this fund, used to meet crying needs, had been raised from the students and faculty by
all the means known to canvassers and collectors. Dormitory contests were staged, and intensive canvassing used in the effort to
go over the top. And these methods worked, or at least they got the monetary results. Relying on the generosity
and true Christian spirit of the Davidson “Gentlemen,” the campaign, under the direction of Archer Torrey, was made into a
free-will offering, in which no one was obliged to contribute, no pressure was exerted to “force” students to sign pledges,
each man was to give because he felt like giving, and as much as he felt like giving. The sad
thing about it all is that, as this is being written, it seems that the student body is badly lacking
in that quality which by now they should have absorbed. I say “seems” because maybe there are extenuating circumstances. But
the fact that after a week in which there has been ample opportunity to give, approximately only one-sixth of amounts
given in other years has been collected speaks for itself. “But,” you ask, “what can I do about it?” You,
no matter how self-centered an attitude you may have had before, can at least try to the best of your
ability to forget that and think of others and their needs, which are certainly more pressing than yours, and try
to do something for them. Get outside of your own petty trials and think upon the good you can do
for those less fortunate than you. Cast your bread, no matter if it be but a crumb, upon the waters!
JACK ABERNATHY.

Watch it
Something that has been done for many years in the past and has been innocent enough has only recently resulted
in a very serious injury. This is the practice of throwing tennis balls and other missiles in the dormitory halls.
We hate to think of another restriction placed on students living in dormitories, but last week one of our students
came within a fraction of an inch of losing the sight of an eye. Though doctors now say that it
is probable that this student will retain the eye, it shocks us to a state of reality. Should students have
another restriction placed on them, especially such a simple sounding one? We are the first to object to this procedure.
However, something should and must be done. Let us suggest that the President of the Student Body make a gentleman's
agreement with the students that such practices will not occur in the future.

Campus Comments
There are three kinds of person on our campus, the Collegiate Type, the Serious Type, and the Cynic. These are
represented by a limited number of individuals who are at the extremes. The rest of the student body lies somewhere
between. The Collegiate Type makes a good politician, but doesn’t take politics or anything else very seriously, he doesn't start
riots or prayer-meetings either one. Main purpose in life: get a big kick out of it. The Serious Type usually
gravitates to one fraternity and/or boarding house, most of them also living on the same hall in one of the
less expensive dormitories. These individuals usually do not truck with money or intellectual integrity either one. Their main purpose is
to do good works. Occasionally a Phi Bete finds his way into their number, but that doesn't prove anything. The
Cynic doesn’t give a darn about anything except a mythical nonentity he calls his “intellectual integrity.” Usually the professors are
out to violate this integrity, hence he refuses to cram, smooch, or do anything else which might help his grade.
Often, of course, studying in any form is frowned upon. The Cynic’s intellectual integrity keeps him from toadying to the
student body. His attitude toward his fellow students is usually that of doctor toward his patients. He is perfectly willing
to help the student body, if such help is needed, but he does not condescend to convince the students of
his good intentions. The Cynic occasionally condescends to write a letter to the Davidsonian and even to sign his name
to it (in his immaturer years he writes more letters to the Davidsonian than any other type.) These letters are
always for the good of the students, but never couched in complimentary terms. In fact, it would be a “violation
of intellectual integrity” to sugar-coat the advice offered. As a result, these Cynics are badly misunderstood. But that is all
to the good. Because if we approved of them (1) they would cease to be cynics and would be “degraded”
to the Serious Type (and lose their “usefulness”) and (2) we would have such a revolution trying to keep up
with all their progressive ideas, that the trustees would rage and the presbyteries imagine a lot of vain things. A
final word. Don’t take a word of this seriously. I just happened to be loafing around my old habitat in
the Davidsonian office and Jack Holland (in a moment of rash weakness) asked me to write this column. Unfortunately neither
Bill Marquess nor Frank Barker were around to stop me. P. S—I don’t give a hoot who writes the next
Campus Comments. P.P. S—I’ve changed my mind, I’m asking Bill Diehl to write the next.
ARCHER TORREY.

CLAUDE OVERHOLT, U. OF AKRON JANITOR, LAYS CLAIM TO BEING THE “CHAMPION FACE MAKER OF THE U.S.” HE IS CALLED
THE “RUBBER FACED MAN” CAN “SWALLOW” HIS NOSE
By KEN LAWSON

Merry Christmas—see you in January. If only I could end this laborious conglomeration of dope thus and jump into bed,
I am sure everyone would be satisfied; but instead I go on pounding the keys into the wee small hours.
Christmas may be a wonderful institution in a girls’ school where the only worries among the fairer sex are how
many presents can be wormed out of boyfriends through a whirlwind pre-holiday correspondence. But pity the ever-suffering college boy who
cannot de-

BEN COLLEGE, CLEVELAND, PURCHASED AN EMPTY BUT BANKRUPT $2,000,000 SKYSCRAPER FOR $250,000, MADE NECESSARY ALTERATIONS AND NOW HAS A COMPLETE
COLLEGE WITH CLASSROOMS, LABS, LIBRARY, GYMNASIUM, POOL, AND DORMITORY ALL UNDER ONE ROOF!

Letters To The Editor

Dear Bill:
College personnel who have labor-

To The Editor:
There are so many rules and regulations printed in the catalogue and book of regulations that it is not surprising
that some students will overlook one of these. Almost every year some students—first year ones, of course—have been heard to
say that it was their opinion that college fees were paid by the semester and the next installment would not
be due until February 1st. The College Treasurer, when interviewed, stated that fees are fixed on a yearly basis and
payable in two installments—one-half at the opening of College and the balance on return to the campus after the Christmas
holidays. It has been the custom in the past for a letter to go out from the Treasurer’s office during
the holidays to the students’ home address. This letter has contained a registration card and a tabulation of the fees.
We understand this letter will be sent again. I am writing this because I believe that this information might be
of interest to a number of students. I hope it will not find its way to the waste basket.
(Signed) CASH.

Dear Bill:
Alumni and students will learn with regret that Mr. Frederick Conrad Smith, our genial Alumni Secretary, will close his engagement
at Davidson on the first of January. I feel that the occasion calls for more than a mere announcement of
the fact. Mr. Smith was elected to this position by the Standing Committee of the Alumni Association two and a
half years ago. It was supposed at that time that the Alumni Association would be able to provide for his
salary and the expenses of his office. It has not turned out that way. The large part of the salary
and expenses has hadto be borne by the College budget. At present, the College budget is not in a position
to bear the additional expense. Not only so, but college budgets, in so far as possible, should be used for
keeping the teaching force of the College up to the highest state of efficiency. In the meantime, Mr. Smith has
unusual newspaper gifts that should not be confined to the routine work of an office. There is a larger field
for his gifts in the newspaper world than he could ever hope to find in the Alumni Office. As he
goes out to exercise those gifts, he may be sure of the good wishes of all his Davidson friends. He
has won for himself a warm place in the hearts of the alumni and students of the College. Perhaps you
are wondering what will become of the Alumni Office. For the present, we will have to operate it largely by
the voluntary services of members of the Faculty and Administrative Staff and by the services of those students who are
already connected with the Office. In this way, we hope to keep the work on an efficient basis until further
plans can be made.

WALTER L. LINGLE.

A fool will tell you where to get off, while a wise man will help you get back on.

And what a game! The shifts, for instance, are executed in lock step. THE BALL IS ACTUALLY IN PLAY FOR
ONLY 12 MINUTES IN A 60-MINUTE FOOTBALL GAME.

One's associations with such a college as Davidson are not broken easily. On saying goodbye to Davidson, I think of
the four years I spent here as a student and the two years and a half that I have been
alumni secretary. They have been happy years—years which have helped to mold me and which I hope have been of
some benefit to the college that I love. Students, fellow workers, and the townspeople alike have been wonderfully kind, and
it is with sincere regret that I leave to take up new work elsewhere. My greatest hope is that Davidson
will continue to grow and to prosper and to spread abroad its influence for good.

FRED SMITH.

Film Report Card

Wednesday, December 14th
"UP THE RIVER," Tony Martin, Arthur Treacher, Preston Foster, and Phyllis Brooks. Rockwell Prison welcomes back with open arms two
convicted gyp artists who are star football players. They're just in time to save dear old Rockwell in the annual
classic with the Larson State Pen. Oddities in the cast: Slim Summerville as the prison football coach. Bill "Bojangles" Robinson
does the Deedle-De-Dum, which, he opines, may be the successor to the Lambeth Walk. And Arthur Treacher is an understanding
prison warden. Transforming a prison into a comic college-like background seems somehow immoral, but maybe your Beverly Hills is just
old-fashioned. Two stars is our prediction.

Thursday, December 15th
"FLIRTING WITH FATE." I've failed again—I can’t find anything on this show at all, not even the cast. It’s probably
a new show and reviews in the movie magazines haven't written it up as yet. (This isn’t an alibi, for
I really did thumb through a heap of movie magazines, honest).

Friday and Saturday, December 16-17th
"SUEZ," Tyrone Power, Loretta Young, Joseph Schildkraut, J. Edgar Bromberg, Nigel Bruce, and Henry Stephenson. It’s Movie Mogul Darryl Zanuck’s
big film of the autumn season, and it has Tyrone Power, backed by history, the Suez Canal, and a sandstorm.
Tyrone Power is the man with the dream to build the Suez Canal (Ferdinand de Lesseps), a youthful French diplomat
who envisioned a waterway of the Mediterranean and Red Sea. He has much trouble for there is much political controversy,
but he triumphs over politics and the Arab forays and foreign ill feeling to complete the canal. Loretta Young plays
the Countess de Montijo, Mr. Power's inspiration, who in time becomes the Empress Eugenie and the wife of Louis Napoleon.
She is a lovely picture in the billowing hoop skirts of a florid era. Clad in dungarees, a man’s shirt,
and a fez, she is the (Continued on Page Six).

...decide whether the friendship is worth enhancing through a nicely wrapped package or whether to call the whole thing off
and begin concentrating on a new young lady friend. At least we can be thankful we were not brought up
under the doctrines of Brigham Young. As the old year draws to a close, we often muse about pleasant occurrences
during the past and people who have done nice things for us. There are two members of the faculty who
have worked untiringly for the students without receiving half of the praise and thanks their services merited—Mrs. Johnston, the supervisor
of the Infirmary, and Mr. White, who performs innumerable services for all the College athletic teams. For both of them,
we wish the most enjoyable holiday season possible.

It’s too bad that Master Marquess is too ill to defend himself just when we have received the dope that
he is somewhat of a rake in his own home state, but he probably could not look you in the
eye and deny it anyway. Into my mailbox came a letter from several young ladies from Agnes Scott wanting to
find out “the newest ideas of the most honorable editor of the Davidsonian on what a perfect Davidson gentleman should
be like, and where he got his remarkable ideas.” We will try to run an interview on this as soon
as possible. To get down to the doings of the weekend, we have a few incidents we just have to
mention: Rea Tenney cross-eyed from watching his girl too much and tired out from trips to the bandstand to retrieve
lost articles... Ladies’ man Jimmy Cooper not known well enough by young Gastonian to rate a date so he pulled
the old borrowing act for the figure... Sonny Cunningham setting a new endurance record in the bathtub... All the magical
art of Colin Smith availing him nothing in his attempt to date charming Miss Connie Moore: a story of her
life was the best Shaw secured... The Spirit of V.M.I. being played for Colonel Liipfert when You're Gonna Lose Your
Gal would have been more appropriate... Popeye McAlpine and Bill Rainey on the campus Friday night... Bob Miller drastically changing
his schedule for the weekend... Loch Hunter wanting to know why girls leave him for the likes of Jeep Gladden...
Gene Vereen believing a fraternity brother should share gladly. Here's wishing all of you the best Christmas possible, but be
sure and tell me about it when you get back.

In the Groove
By TOM PERRIN

CHRISTMAS SERVICE... It seems that no matter how many times we've attended the service ourselves, we are invariably struck with
amazement at the crowds that flock to Davidson for the Christmas vespers each year. Not that the program isn’t worthy
of all the attention it draws, but it is endlessly surprising to us that a presentation which gets so precious
little publicity always packs Chambers tight to the doors. Our journalistic chapeaux are doffed to the musicians who present such
a creditable performance.

LOCAL COLORERS... Speaking of Davidson successes, we would like to remind you of the student art exhibit last year, of
course, sponsored by that enterprising little sheet, “The Davidsonian.” Why not give campus Michaelangelos and Walt Disneys a second chance?
Not all the talent graduated last year, even if Petty Rembrandt Ryburn, whose work was very interesting, is no longer
with us. Judging from the number of poster painters in business hereabouts, there must be no dearth of brush wielders
and paint daubers. Incidentally, we have just heard (after writing the paragraph above, so help us) of the photo club
exhibit. Sounds like a good thing.

CHIT-CHAT... The ad of a well-known watchmaking firm, as seen this month in the magazines, features a very nice picture
of Miss Dabney Parrish, of Greenville, who wears one of the company's products. Miss Parrish’s brother also wears one of
these timepieces, according to the advertiser, which seems odd, since Miss Parrish, who isn’t exactly a stranger to Davidson dances,
has no brother. Orchids, or more appropriately, shrubs, to Mr. Hobart, college grounds overseer, for sticking those boxwoods around the
Phi and Eu halls. As somebody remarked, those brick piles look less like matchboxes now. Scribbled in Chambers second floor
smoking room is this observance:—“Abstinence makes the sot grow fonder.” Thanks to the Pan Hell boys for the nicest Christmas
present we have gotten so far—we mean Kemp for Midwinters, of course. From now on, we're on their side. Don't
care if they do get rich.

SCRIPTS ’N MILLER... “Scripts ’n Pranks,” alleged humor magazine, is out, we were forced to note, since somebody slipped one
into our P.O. Box, and Editor Miller pursues his campaign to malign Chief Marquess’ little journal, which doesn't seem to
have suffered appreciably thereby. By now, of course, even the freshmen have learned what parts of the mag are worth
reading, which are clippings from the better papers. Reading time: five minutes. All seriousness aside. Personally, though, we're tired of
this bickering between publications, and we're making it one of our New Year's resolutions to forget the matter.

Berkeley, Calif—(ACP)—The effort of the University of California to induce “wall-flowers” and “stay-aways” to participate in the social life of
the institution, as an aid to intellectual fitness, is being met with considerable success this semester, according to Prof. Frank
L. Kleeberger, chairman of the department of physical education. Scores of young men who heretofore did not seem to be
able to stop tripping over their partners’ feet, and young women who were all too conscious of their dancing faults
and supposed lack of popularity, are “finding themselves" in the beginners’ dancing classes, Dr. Kleeberger says.

Classroom instruction in popular dancing to overcome the embarrassment of clumsy first attempts or the determination to stay away from
social affairs altogether, is now engaging the attention of some 200 male students and scores of young women twice each
week, and many of these are finding a much greater interest in university affairs generally, and a stimulus to study.
The movement was inaugurated by the University Mothers’ Club some years ago in the endeavor to provide social dances for
the men students who could not afford corsages, taxi-cabs, and dance tickets; and the girl students who found the “formal”
beyond the reach of the collegiate purse.

Pop says a joint bank account is one where he does the depositing and Ma does the withdrawing.

There are many jobs which are dull as long as they are done slackly, but interesting if done well.

Good business doesn't make a successful salesman, but a successful salesman makes good business.

Play fair, be square, and you will find more sport in living and less fear of dying.

Most outward gains are obtained at the expense of inward losses.
