WEDNESDAY, APRIL 20, 1938 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Three

Material Is Completed For Annual
Make-Up For Sections Is Submitted and in Hands of Printer

All material for the annual of the year 1937-38 is definitely in, announces editor Jim Dorsett of the senior class. The makeup of all the different divisions and sections has been turned in and the complete setup of the edition has been sent to the engravers and printers.

Colorful Cover
Another point of interest is that the cover has been selected. The colors of mulberry and turquoise have been chosen to carry out the scheme featuring air travel. The sponsor books are to be bound in white leather. Competitive bidding for the soft covers was won by the Kingscraft Company and the order has been turned over to them. The date of publication has not been definitely set as yet but will be late in May according to the editor. Last year's annual edited by John Knox Abernathy of the class of 1937, was bound in green. The theme of the centennial was attractively carried out with the engraving of the Eumenean Hall on the cover.

Unity Church Gives Pageant
“Story of New Testament” Is Presented Here

An Easter pageant, “The Story of the New Testament,” was presented at the Davidson Unity Church Sunday night at 7:30, sponsored by the Board of Directors of the church and directed by Ivan Wetmore. “This is a pageant, a worship service, presented for the purpose of putting into dramatic, living form the story of the New Testament and the life and spirit of Jesus Christ,” stated the program to explain the purpose of the event.

The service began by singing “I Love to Tell the Story,” after which Watson Street, the pastor, made a few introductory remarks, and the pageant began.

Easter Scene
The first scene depicted an Easter Sunday evening in the average Christian home. This was the only one in which the characters represented people of today. All the rest of the scenes were taken directly from the life of Christ or His apostles. The rest of the scenes colorfully portrayed many of the better-known characters of the New Testament. The costumes closely resembled the clothes worn by the people of Palestine in those days.

100 Characters
There were fourteen scenes in all, one having been omitted because of the sickness of a cast member. Over one hundred people took part in the pageant, and the church was seated to capacity. The pageant showed that much hard work had been put into it by the cast, the director, the writers, and all those who had had a part in preparing and presenting it.

Dr. Lingle Addresses Many Congregations

On Sunday afternoon Dr. W. L. Lingle spoke at the annual commencement of Odell High School. This school is situated between Davidson and Concord. The women of Myers Park Presbyterian Church heard Dr. Lingle on Monday. The subject of his address, “The Christian Church,” dealt with the things that the Christian Colleges try to do for the students and for the church at large. He will travel on Thursday to Winston-Salem, where he will speak to the men of the First Presbyterian Church. He will take as a general theme “Christian Education.” Mr. F. L. Jackson, Prof. Thane McDonald and one of the college quartets will also make the trip. Many of the men to whom Dr. Lingle will speak are alumni of Davidson. Among these is Mr. J. S. Foster, president of the Men’s Organization. Sunday will find Dr. Lingle in Bluefield, W. Va., where he will talk at the Westminster Presbyterian Church in the morning and at the First Presbyterian Church in the evening.

Founder’s Day Group
Pictured above are five important figures of Founder's Day, held on the campus Tuesday, April 12. Left to right, they are President W. L. Lingle, Governor Clyde R. Hoey, who delivered the principal address; Dr. R. A. Dunn, Chairman of the Board of Trustees; Dr. W. H. Fraser, President of Queens-Chicora College, whose students were guests on the campus on that day; and Dr. Archibald Currie, Chairman of the Founder's Day Program Committee.—(Courtesy Charlotte Observer).

Debate Club’s New Officers
Rice and Kenyon Are Other Officers of Alpha Phi Epsilon

At the latest meeting of Alpha Phi Epsilon, honorary debating society held Friday night in the Kappa Sigma fraternity house, the following men were elected as officers for the coming year: President, John Reisner; vice president, Sherrard Rice, and secretary-treasurer, Dick Kenyon.

Five Initiated
Also at this meeting new members were initiated into the society. They were Fred Stair, Dick Kenyon, Bob Ramsey, Henry Harkey, and Neal Scott. Due to absences, Jack Holland, Sam Spencer, and Marion Kellogg were not initiated at that time, but will be at the earliest possible date. Plans for a future speaker or speakers to talk on public speaking or some phase of its use in the business world were drawn up during this meeting, but no definite decision has been made as yet according to Haywood Hill, president of Alpha Phi Epsilon.

Feed Held
At the conclusion of the formal meeting a feed was held. Out-going officers are: Haywood Hill, president, Kenneth McLean, vice-president, and Hector McGeachy, secretary-treasurer.

Crane Directs Joint Meeting
Volunteer Group Meets With Ministerial Band

Paul Crane conducted the program of the Ministerial Band last Sunday at a meeting held at 8 P.M. at the home of Professor W. N. Mebane, jointly with the Student Volunteer Group. Crane is a member of the Volunteer Group, which consists of those men who expect to become workers in mission fields. In his talk, Crane put Bhuddist ideas into perspective. Following this talk, Boyd Flynn and Nelson Smith presented a play which consisted of a scene between two American doctors who were in the act of discussing another doctor who had previously gone to mission fields in China. The purpose was to correct misapprehensions about the ideas of the missionaries in China and other foreign fields.

Plans were discussed about a “retreat” for the group in order to bring them closer together in their religion. This is to be held on one of the first weekends in May. The Ministerial Band is responsible for fixing up a prayer room for the students to hold their devotionals away from the noise of the dormitories and an open invitation is held for any who wish to use this prayer room in the Social Center. Money in the treasury has been designated for many practical purposes in religious work.

Cornell University has a new five-year course in chemical engineering leading to a bachelor’s degree.

A University of Oklahoma professor has figured out that only 10 percent of his students “crib” at exams.

Joint Meeting Planned For Two Societies
Plans were completed last night at a regular meeting of the Eumenean Literary Society for the joint meeting of this group with the Grace Ramsey Literature Society of Mitchell College in Statesville.

Humorous Program
It was decided that, at this meeting, which will be held next Wednesday night, April 27, at 8:15 P.M. in Eu Hall, the program will be mainly humorous in nature. There will be several humorous talks by members of both societies. Dick Vowles and Sam Ryburn, stellar contenders for the title of Davidson's wittiest, will engage in a humorous debate with two representatives of the Grace Ramsey Society. The hour allotted to that part of the program will be approximately half an hour. Mitchell College girls will take part in the program.

Diplomas For Seniors
It is expected that Dr. Wik Cumming, who was a member of the Eu while in college here, will present diplomas to those seniors eligible to receive them. These diplomas signify active membership in the society during the recipient’s college career. Refreshments will be served at the end of the meeting. At the meeting last night, the question of requirements for diplomas was discussed. President Dick Rader announced that although the time, 8:15 P.M., had been set for the meeting with the Mitchell College girls, the actual time would depend on the time at which the Spring Services would end.

Chubby’s Band Gives Audition
Delaware Man Impressed By Band and Praises Davidson

Thursday night, April 14, Mr. J. Carson Rielley, prominent owner and director of a chain of nationally known night spots, gave the local swing orchestra under the direction of Chubby King, an audition.

Many Spectators
Over two hundred students gathered in the basement of Chambers Building to listen to the orchestra's swing music. According to King, Rielley was well pleased with the band and the future of the orchestra. Within ten days he is to let the leader know whether he will undertake to bill the orchestra for the June 28 opening at Rehoboth Beach, Delaware, where they will play in the Del-Reo Casino.

Baseball boys Bill Burch, Ed Morrow, and Bob Balsley spent Easter in Reidsville, and Jim Gamble went home to Lincolnton.

Many Pikas Attend Dances At Salisbury and Concord
The dances at Salisbury and Concord Monday night lured many Pi Kappa Alphas away from the campus. Addison Long, Jim Anderson, and Ross McElwee went to Salisbury, while Bub Coltrane, Ralph Monger, Vernon Youngblood, Ed Shewmake, and Rufus Allison went to Concord. Joe Shelton and Paul Lady were initiated into the chapter last Thursday night.

K. A.’s Are Invited to Charlotte Dance
Paul McGarity and “Bosco” Marion, members of the Seneca Club in Charlotte, extended a blanket bid to the fraternity to the dance on Friday night, and many attended.Of the brothers attended. Dick Taylor went to Spartanburg, Gil Palmer visited “Jeep” Gladden in Chester, Fred Little went home to Wilmington, where Perrin was the guest of Dave Sprunt. Sam Spencer went home to Columbia, and John Sadler visited Joe Bailey in Rock Hill. Jim Dunford went on the baseball trip. Charles Hines has gotten out of the infirmary.

SAE’s Witness Moravian Services
Brothers Nick Nicholson, Shank Service Supreme

COLLEGE

Brother Lanky Lem Kornegay crusaded to the fashionable St. Mary’s School in Raleigh to hear the Kappa Sig bells chime with Maud.

Kappa Sigs Elect Pan-Hellenic Representative
Ray Pittman has been elected Pan-Hellenic Councilman for next year. Brothers Fant and Hill went home with Brother McGeachy to Fayetteville. Brother Wyatt Carpenter went to Gaffney; Brothers Yates, Hipp, and Pledge Glenn went to Raleigh; and Brother Spencer went to Rock Hill. Brother Frampton is still wondering what happened to his Mooresville date. The chapter takes great pride in announcing that Brother Watkins has been declared the Peter Rabbit of the frat by winning the annual Easter Egg hunt.

Pi Kappa Phis Go Home For Easter
Apparently tired from too many strenuous weekends, most of the brothers of Pi Kappa Phi spent a quiet weekend either at home or on campus. Brothers Arrowsmith and Hite went to Florence; Brother Ivey to Rock Hill; Brother Hill to Sharon; Brother Niven to Albemarle; Brother Ward to Warrenton; and Brother Covington to home.

This is expected to be a major highlight of the program as the wit of Vowles and Ryburn is exceeded only by the wit of Ryburn and Vowles in the presence of members of the fair sex. Approximately 30 members read papers and were voted into the society. Their names were not available when the paper went to press.

Among the Greeks
Betas Attend Dance in Charlotte
Practically the entire chapter visited Charlotte to attend the Seneca dance there. John Johnson, Tom Cauple, and Joe Kellam were with the baseball team in South Carolina. Albert Hemphill went to Virginia with the track team, and Ken Lawson and Paul Bumbarger were with the tennis team in Chapel Hill and Raleigh. Brother Wass McLean cavorted to the smooth tunes of Sweeny Pross and his Honolulu Strollers in Morganton Saturday night. Brother John Lottomore accompanied the baseball team on the South Carolina invasion along with Brother Stricklen and Brother Hayseed.

Phi Gams Go to Winston-Salem for Easter
Nesbitt Elmore, Fred Stair, Jack Tillotson, Ganier, and Colonel Shoerly attended the Easter services in Winston-Salem Sunday morning. Gene Liipfert and Parrish went to the dance in Salisbury Monday night. Bill and Jay Bolin attended Easter Services in Charlotte. Charlie Marshall is away on a freshman golf trip, and Dick Shore has returned from the freshman tennis trip to Raleigh.

Phi Delts Spend Easter At Home
Most spent the Easter weekend at home. Jimmy Reinhardt accompanied Gus Knight to Shelby. Tom Glenn went to Spartanburg, Harper Beall to Lenoir, and Warren Ludlam and “Cocky” Wells to Winston-Salem. Bob Scarborough went to Eastover, South Carolina. Billy Turner was a visitor in Rock Hill as usual, and Miller Sproull and Marshall Foote accompanied the freshman tennis team to Chapel Hill and Raleigh.

Sig Eps Entertain Visitors At Chapter House
Dr. and Mrs. Samuel H. Hay of Morristown, Tenn., were visitors at the chapter house.

For the Man Who Knows
Norton’s 2 to 1
Radio Supplies
Groceries
Hardware
M. H. GOODRUM & CO.
Davidson, N. C.

The usual feed was held Sunday.

Comedy Presented By Converse French Club
Vespers Will Be Conducted By Union Theological Seminary Students
Next Sunday evening a group of Union Theological Seminary students will conduct vesper service. Three men will speak: W. M. Thompson, J. Walter Dickson, and David Eddington. Two of these speakers, Thompson and Dickson, are Davidson graduates. Thompson, of Richmond, Va., was a member of the Kappa Sigma fraternity, a Phi Beta Kappa, and an Omicron Delta Kappa man. He was elected to different honorary fraternities for eight years; played football and was a member of the “D” club and the Athletic Council. Walter Dickson, of Anderson, S.C., graduated last year. He was a member of the Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity, the Kumenean literary society, and was president of the Y.M.C.A. He, too, was an O.D.K. man. David Eddington is a graduate of Southwestern University and holds the Hodge Fellowship at Union. These men will be glad to hold conferences with any individuals who are planning to follow the profession of the ministry or those who intend to enter any theological seminary for training. They will probably meet with the ministerial band sometime Sunday afternoon and will conduct the Monday morning chapel service.

Spanish Frat Has Initiation
Eight new members were initiated into Sigma Delta Pi, Spanish fraternity, at its meeting Wednesday, April 13. They were Jack Holland, Frank Hughes, Dave Newbold, Dave McQueen, Charles Parker, C.W. Roberts, M.M. Pleasants, and Marshall Houston. After the initiation, the fraternity held a joint meeting with the Spanish club. R.E. Harkey, T.H. Guion, T.A. Roberts, W.E. Loftin, William Black, F.C. Huling, James Hogg, Dan Cagle, John Kennedy, Charles Mashburn, J.L. Ogden, G. Hudson, Tom Cunningham, and K.K. Casali were new initiates of this club. During the short business meeting that followed, it was decided to hold open house for Dr. Zamora of the University of Havana, and to elect new officers at the next meeting on the 22nd. Dr. Shelby appointed I.M. Hughes to be chairman of the program for the next meeting.

House Plumbing and Heating
R.W. DUNCAN
Phone Day 180—Night 53
Mooresville, N.C.

Program
Thurs.-Fri. April 21-22
“Wells Fargo”
With Joel McCrea — Bob Burns — Francis Dee

Mon.-Tues. April 25-26
“Every Day’s A Holiday”
With MAE WEST

CAROLINA THEATRE
Mooresville, N.C.

Comedy Presented By Union Men
The Alliance Francaise of Converse College presented a three-act comedy, Ces Dames Aux Chapeaux Verts, in Chambers Auditorium Tuesday evening, April 19th. About thirty-two girls, chaperoned by Dr. and Mrs. A. Vermont, arrived in time for dinner which was served at the Davidson Hotel. At eight o'clock the visiting French students presented in Chambers auditorium Acrement’s three-act comedy. Between the acts, a ballet was performed by the girls. Immediately after, the Davidson Cercle Francais acted as host to the visitors at a reception in the Quadwranglers room.

Local Club Will Visit Converse
On Thursday, April 21st, the local Cercle Francais will visit Converse College's Alliance Francaise in Spartanburg, S.C. Approximately twenty-five members of the club, accompanied by several members of the Davidson faculty, will arrive at Converse in time for a complimentary dinner which will be served in the college dining room. At eight o'clock two French plays, L’Homme de la Nuit and La Lettre Chargee, and musical numbers will be given. A reception in the college parlor will follow the dramatic performance. On Monday, April 25th, the Cercle Francais will present its program for the Alliance Francaise of Charlotte. The Alliance Francaise was formed in Charlotte this winter and is made up of the French-speaking citizens of Charlotte and surrounding towns. On the invitation of Mr. Thomas B. Humble, director of the Little Theatre, the plays will be presented at the Little Theater.