WEDNESDAY, MARCH 2, 1938 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Five

Vanderbilt To Be Host To IRC Clubs of South

Southeast Conference To Be On March 4, 5 In Nashville, Tennessee

The Southeast International Conference of the Clubs of University Relations will be held March 4 and 5 at Vanderbilt University, Nashville, Tenn., by that university in co-operation with the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace. The conference will feature many well-known and important men. Among the principal speakers will be Dr. C. G. Fenwick, professor of political law at Bryn Mawr; Dr. E. B. Price, of the University of Chicago, director of International House, and Miss Amy Jones, division assistant of the Carnegie Endowment.

The conference will be opened Friday, March 4, in Kissam Hall, with a luncheon after which Dr. O. C. Carmichael, chancellor of Vanderbilt, and Mr. Rees Finney, president of the conference, will give welcoming addresses. At 2:30 P. M. the first session of round tables will begin. At 4:00 P. M. the delegates will enjoy a tea given by the Vanderbilt Student Union. Dr. Fenwick will lecture Friday night on “This Business of Have-Nots.”

The meeting Saturday morning is to begin with the second round table session, after which Dr. Price will speak on “Forces in the Far East.” The last meeting will be held after luncheon, and Dr. Morganstein of the University of Vienna, will lecture afterwards. Following a business meeting and the conference banquet, Dr. Price is again scheduled to lecture. The conference will end with a dance under the auspices of the Vanderbilt Union.

Latest Books Are Obtained For Students

Newest Fiction and Non-Fiction Are Now in Library

Five popular new books have been placed on the shelves of the library recently. The five are: “Assignment in Utopia,” by Eugene Lyons; “Pepita,” by Vita Sackville-West; “Forever Ulysses,” by C. P. Rodocanachi; “Madame Curie” by Eve Curie; and “The Second Woollcott Reader.”

“Assignment in Utopia” deals with conditions, economic and social, in Soviet Russia today. It is the story of the gradual disillusionment of the author during his seven years’ stay in the Soviet Union as an American news correspondent.

“Pepita” the Dancer

“Pepita” is the story of a famous Spanish dancer of not impeccable virtue who was the author's grandmother. It narrates Pepita’s affair with the English gentleman, the Hon. Lionel Sackville-West, later minister to the United States, and continues with the story of their daughter and her marriage to her cousin Baron Sackville. The daughter of this second union is the author, and her story brings the narrative to an interesting close.

Modern Ulysses

The book “Forever Ulysses,” is the author’s first attempt in novel writing, though he has two successful plays to his credit. Briefly, it is the story of a modern Greek Ulysses, who like his ancient compatriot of the same name, lives an adventurous life. Rodocanachi, a Greek himself, traces the rise of his hero from a boy diving for the pennies of tourists to a wealthy world figure.

Woman Scientist

“Madame Curie” is the biography of the greatest woman scientist, written by her youngest daughter. Translated by Vincent Shean, it tells the complete story of the co-discoverer of radium—from her beginning as the daughter of a poor Polish professor, through her desperate struggle with poverty, her marriage to Pierre Curie and his early, tragic death, to her final triumphs and recognition.

Woollcott Again

“The Second Woollcott Reader” is similar in conception to the first, which appeared in the past year or so. It includes the work of some of the best-known writers of today and the recent past. Over a thousand pages in length, it includes eight books formerly published separately. As in the “First Reader,” Woollcott writes amusing, original comments on his selections.

NYA OFFERS SOCIAL WORK TO STUDENTS

A call for students not otherwise occupied to do social work throughout North Carolina this summer was made by Professor F. K. Fleagle in chapel Saturday. The proposition made through the N. Y. A. officials offers persons who will accept no remuneration for their services, an opportunity to help the underprivileged of their state. Efforts will be bent to reduce illiteracy, to help backward children, and to further recreation and playground projects. Further details of the plan will be broadcast from radio station WPTF Raleigh tonight. Any student wishing to volunteer or seeking more information on the matter is invited to see Professor Fleagle.

Hi-Y Club Is Started By YMCA Cabinet

Bill Boyle and Eldridge Brown Are Advisers

Marion Bryant, co-director of Boys’ Work on the YMCA cabinet, has announced the organization of a Hi-Y club at Cornelius. Bill Boyle and Eldridge Brown are the advisers. The Huntersville club, organized recently by John Scott with Casey Jones as leader, is now developing a full program of work. The Boys’ Work department is attempting to place one of its men in the adviser’s position for the Hi-Y club now existing at Mooresville, but nothing definite has been accomplished yet. Bill Loftin and Sid Sample are making the negotiations.

Due to the fact that the speaker was unable to be present, the chapel program, which was to have been a high point in the safety campaign by the local Hi-Y club at the Davidson High School, was not presented at its scheduled time last Friday morning. However, officials of the club expect to present the program next Friday.

As a result of Watson Street's request for more books for the library of the Davidson Unity Church, the Davidson Hi-Y club will collect books all over the village for this work. The books will be reconditioned by members of the boys’ Sunday School classes under the direction of Henry MacConnell who repairs books for the college library.

Already plans are being made to send members of as many of these clubs as possible to the Second National Hi-Y Congress, to be held at Berea, Ky., this summer.

Miss Kalista Hood is visiting her parents, Dr. and Mrs. Frazer Hood, after completing her second season on the New York stage. Miss Hood says that the life of an actress is not easy, that one must study long and hard on diction, dramatic art, voice and many other things. She has appeared in “Cavalcade” and “As You Like It,” and other well-known plays of the fall and winter season. Miss Hood will remain here until the school term closes, when she and her parents will go to England for the summer.

Among the Greeks

Wilson Talks To Chemists

At a recent meeting of Gamma Sigma Epsilon, honorary chemistry fraternity, Mr. J. K. Wilson read a very interesting paper on “Chemistry and Leprosy” showing the developments of this work. Marion Bryant, president of the fraternity, presided over the monthly business meeting after the reading of Mr. Wilson's paper.

Mr. Wilson is the son of Dr. R. M. Wilson, a missionary to the 3ederwulf Leper Colony in Korea. He was born in Kwangu, Korea, and lived the first nineteen years of his life there. This gave him a personal and actual knowledge beside the research made independently. The paper brought out many interesting facts about this age-old disease. In the past few years more has been done in developing a cure than in centuries. It has been proved not hereditary but breeds best in a warm climate. One out of every 1000 in Korea is a leper. The main treatment is very similar to that of our tuberculosis, although there are countless other unorthodox means. Chaulmoogra oil is used also.

Another event of the program was the report rendered by Marion Bryant, who was a delegate to the recent Ninth Biennial National Convention of the fraternity. The business of the month consisted of plans for the annual open meeting of the local chapter which is to be held on Wednesday, March 9. This is to be a demonstration to which the entire student body will be cordially invited. At this meeting the new initiates will also be “tapped.”Students of Beta Pass Quiet Weekend on Campus

Beta brothers spent a quiet week. Charlie Pegram and Tom Abbott broke to Charlie Malone went with the track team to Chapel Hill, and Eddie Steere traveled to Asheboro. On "Y" deputations, Bob Ramsey went to Charlotte, and Carey Dowd to Glade Valley to sing with the "Y" quartet there. There was the usual Sunday night feed.

Pikas Are Guests At Concord Party

Belmont Abbey basketball team were guests of the chapter at dinner Monday evening. Another visitor was Dr. K. C. Jonas of Marion, who also came on Monday. Warren Gaw traveled to Greensboro over the weekend, Johnny McQueen went down to Little Rock, S.C., and Bob Wyatt went to Raleigh. Hector McGeachy journeyed to Rock Hill. There was a feed Sunday night.

Pi Kaps Hold Banquet For Recent Initiates

The Pi Kaps held their initiates’ banquet at Thacker last Saturday. A number of the brothers went to Concord to enjoy a party in their honor given by Miss Caddie Willis. Toddy Latimer and Ross McElwee went to Anderson together. John Scott Raynal and C. E. Raynal visited in Statesville, while Don Cleveland and Jim Anderson went to Marion.

Kappa Alphas Have Alumni Pledge Talk At Model Initiation

Kappa Alphas held a model initiation Thursday night which attracted a large group. Dr. Cumming was the guest of honor at the last chapter meeting. John King was the model initiate. Brothers traveled far over the weekend. Sam Spencer managed to reach both Columbia and Greenville, Dick Arnold likewise to Greenville for the Furman dances. Brother Palmer made a quick trip to Spartanburg and brothers Bruce Kenney and C. A. Hines to Rock Hill. J. Summerell journeyed to Raleigh and Winston Montgomery to Ringstree. Harold Sher went home to Concord.

SAE’s Announce Officers For Second Semester

The chapter heard from Charlie Fuller at the Mardi Gras in New Orleans last week. Lem Kornegay went home to Rocky Mount for the weekend, Nick Nicholson visited relatives in Charlotte, and Bailey Williams went to Chapel Hill with the track team. Pete Marchant and Charlie Smith enjoyed the dances at Furman, and McCleans Ken, Torrey, and Hector with Springs Pharr and John Latimer traveled to Rock Hill. Jim Thomas went home to Ramseur; Tom Cauble made a trip to Chapel Hill, and Perry Sloan and Mark Cauble visited Salisbury Sunday.

Officers for the second semester were recently announced: president, Fitz Dade; vice president, Bill Nicholson; and treasurer, John Latimer.

Kappa Sigs Are Hosts To Belmont Abbey Boys

Two members of the victorious Belmont Abbey basketball team were guests of the chapter at dinner Monday evening. Another visitor was Dr. K. C. Jonas of Marion, who also came on Monday. Warren Gaw traveled to Greensboro over the weekend, Johnny McQueen went down to Little Rock, S.C., and Bob Wyatt went to Raleigh. Hector McGeachy journeyed to Rock Hill. There was a feed Sunday night.

Archibald Currie Gives Talk At Sunday School

Professor Archibald Currie emphasized the relationship between God and man in his talk at Sunday School. He explained that man's important relations with one another are by contract, such as those of husband and wife, or employer and employee. Likewise, God made a contract, or covenant, with individuals and the world as a whole, in which he guarantees material blessings. However, this covenant has a "condition precedent"—seeking first the Kingdom of Heaven and its righteousness. The duty of the Church is to get its members to seek first the Kingdom of Heaven, and then all these material blessings will be added unto them.

Dr. Torrey To Make Address

The Student Volunteer group will meet at the home of Prof. and Mrs. W. N. Mebane Sunday night at eight o'clock. The feature of the meeting will be a talk by Dr. R. A. Torrey. The group has approximately 20 members and meets informally to discuss various topics.

Government Gives Physics Equipment

The physics department will receive many new pieces of equipment within the next month, a gift from the federal government. This addition is largely due to the efforts of Professor W. N. Mebane and Mr. H. D. Hobart, superintendent of grounds and buildings. These two men went to Washington two weeks ago in connection with these implements. The government is donating a large number of drill presses.

Plants Are Planted Over Campus

Under the direction of Mr. H. D. Hobart, grounds and buildings superintendent, extensive work has begun on the beautification of the campus. Hundreds of shrubs, trees, and flowers have been set out. The most recent project has been the grounds around the new infirmary. Approximately 120 shrubs, including 85 broadleaf evergreens and 22 climbing roses, have just been set out. The ground has been fertilized and will begin to show results soon. Other parts of the campus have also been benefitted. Six hemlocks, three willow oaks, one umbrella tree, and 25 crepe myrtles have been planted together with numerous other shrubs around Chambers. Approximately 1,000 tulip bulbs were planted along the fraternity walks and in front of the library. About one thousand crocus bulbs were planted in front of the Chambers building and are now in bloom.

Dress Up for Spring

You should be properly dressed. See our new sport outfits at Marion Davis Company, 205 South Tryon.

Complete Home Furnishers

"You'll find warmth and friendliness at Bridges," 308 South Tryon Street, Charlotte, N.C.

Palmer's Optometrists

Eye-sight specialists Dr. James A. Palmer and Dr. Belle W. Palmer. Broken glasses and repairs mailed out C.O.D. same day received. 302 North Tryon Street, Charlotte, N.C.