Page Two

The Davidsonian

Founded By the Class of 1915, 1937

Member 1938 Associated Collegiate Press

Distributor of Collegiate Digest

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY

Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES

Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

But in three short years your class will be the Seniors, the leaders. One of your number will be President
of the Student Body, others will hold the other campus offices and you must be preparing yourselves for these positions.
You cannot learn too early that at Davidson there are traditions and beliefs older—and greater than yourself. It is a
part of Davidson tradition that all Davidson men exhibit friendliness, the ability to assume responsibility, a willingness to work, and
the proper respect for authority. We can commend to you no better advice than the striving towards these things.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

CAMPUS IN CARTOON.

“WHIZZER” WHITE, COLORADO U'S PHI BETA KAPPA ALL-AMERICAN QUARTERBACK OF LAST SEASON, NEVER DROPPED BELOW AN ‘A’ IN ANY OF
HIS STUDIES.

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY

National Advertising Service, Inc.

College Publishers Representative

420 MADISON AVE. NEW YORK, N.Y.

CHICAGO - BOSTON - LOS ANGELES - SAN FRANCISCO

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1879.

BILL MARQUESS Editor-in-Chief

JOHN LATIMER Managing Editor

EDITORIAL STAFF

Wassie Terrell Assistant Editor

Porter Managing Editor

Jack Abernathy Managing Editor

Erle Austin Managing Editor

Jack Holland Managing Editor

Karl Hudson Managing Editor

Sam Spencer Managing Editor

Tom Vassal Sports Editor

Ovid Bell Editor

Joe Calvin Editor

Wesley Coghill Editor

Perry Sloan Associate Editor

Henry Baker Movie Editor

Walt Kunz Staff Photographer

Collection Manager

Advertising Manager

Advertising Manager

Andy Turner Circulation Manager

Terrell, Porter Circulation Manager

Asst. Business Manager

Our Policy...

All newspapers, both collegiate and otherwise, need a clear-cut policy in handling both news and editorial matter. And we know
of no better place than in this, the first issue of a new collegiate year, to try to express ours.

The Davidsonian is a student newspaper, financed by student fees and put out by student effort. Our aim will be
to strive for the welfare of our owners, the students of Davidson. No matter how time-worn and trite it may
sound, we say that we firmly believe our first responsibility is to the students. We are particularly anxious for every
Davidson man to realize that this is his paper. If you think it is a good one, be proud of
it. If not, tell us what you think is wrong with it. Like all editors, we hope that our paper
will be a popular one. However, we realize our inability to please all, and when we take our stand on
certain questions, we hope that others will realize it, too.

The columns of this paper are open to anyone. Communications for publication are welcome. These communications will be published anonymously
if the writer so desires, but the editor must know the name of the writer, since he is personally responsible
for everything that is published.

We are constantly trying to make improvements in the paper and hope that you will recognize them as such. Succeeding
the inimitable Chubby King, we have a gossip columnist whom we believe will satisfy the most ardent keyhole fiends on
the campus. This worthy will, however, write under a nom de plume, and it will take a veritable Sherlock Holmes
to successfully identify him. Your impartial movie column will continue and the latest dope in Davidson sports will be found
in Sports Editor Casalis' column. We also plan to present a column on national affairs, the purpose of which will
be to overcome one of our worst faults—that of being so wrapped up in our own narrow sphere of life
that we take no interest in what is going on outside.

Our hopes and aspirations for the paper are high, but we can do little without the wholehearted cooperation of the
administration and the student body. We most heartily solicit it and hope that The Davidsonian will come up to our
aspirations and to your expectations.

To The Frosh...

It is a long-established custom in colleges to greet the new men each year with much advice, well meant but
often unheeded. And, although you Freshmen have already received quite a bit of this, we would like to add our
bit. A responsibility, a great responsibility, is yours. You are entering a college that has long been famed for turning
out right-thinking, clean-living men, the kind of men that our country and the world needs today probably more than ever
before. It’s up to you to keep Davidson at the top. Of course, your influence on the campus doesn’t amount
to much just yet, but in three short years your class will be the Seniors, the leaders. One of your
number will be President of the Student Body, others will hold the other campus offices and you must be preparing
yourselves for these positions. You cannot learn too early that at Davidson there are traditions and beliefs older—and greater than
yourself. It is a part of Davidson tradition that all Davidson men exhibit friendliness, the ability to assume responsibility, a
willingness to work, and the proper respect for authority. We can commend to you no better advice than the striving
towards these things.

Sunday School...

It has been not infrequently said that Davidson men, although they are coming to a Christian College where a decided
emphasis is put upon religion, think all too little about religious and spiritual matters. There is on the campus a
very active Sunday School which grew last year under the leadership of Mr. Bryant and John Mawhinney into a thriving
religious group doing much good among the students and filling a great need here at Davidson. What better way to
spend Sunday morning than by going to Sunday School? The programs are attractively presented, with one of the professors, among
whom there are many excellent speakers, talking at each. A special note to Freshmen: Just because you’re away from home
now and have more freedom, don't fall out of the habit of attending Sunday School every week. It’s a habit
that you will never regret having formed.

Stolen Thunder

The smoke of battle is pretty heavy around the fraternity houses now: the rushing free-for-all is in full swing. Pretty
soon it will be over, upperclassmen can take off their ties, the smoke will begin to clear, and we can
get some idea of the crop of Freshmen. The battle has been pretty interesting so the crop must be good.
By now you Freshmen have learned that when some kind friend waxed enthusiastic about having you down to his frat
house for lunch, he had intentions other than feeding you. Here’s the way things run, in case some of you
yokels haven’t suspected it yet:

Rushing Season

“How do you do, Mr. Lindsey.”

“Won't you sit down, Mr. Lindsey.”

“Have a cigarette, Mr. Lindsey.”

“A little ice-cream, Mr. Lindsey?”

Accepting the Bid:

“Congratulations, Lindsey.”

“Glad to have you with us, Lindsey.”

“Hope that you will like it here, Lindsey.”

A Few Weeks Later:

“Hey, rat, did you take those letters to the post office?”

“Ya dumb slug, where's that paddle?”

“Forget your homework, you've got to wax the floors tonight.”

Still Later:

“Come on, bend over, you swine. Don't be soft. We ain't half through with you.”

“Smack! Smack!”

“Okay, only two more apiece and we’re through.”

OUR TOAST TO FRESHMEN

May your disillusions be gentle;

Your loves be fleeting;

Your parents be lenient;

And may you be a freshman only once!

—Auburn Plainsman.

If you suspect a man, don't employ him; if you employ a man, don’t suspect him.

An epitaph is a statement that usually lies above about the one who lies beneath.

Riches have a bad habit of creating new wants instead of satisfying the old ones.

Honest, now, in building air castles, do you always put the same persons in them?

An apple a day keeps the doctor away unless you get the seeds in your appendix.

THE "WHIZ" WAS KNOWN TO STUDY HIS CALCULUS STRETCHED OUT ON A RUBDOWN TABLE BETWEEN HALVES: WHY HE IS A
RHODES SCHOLAR.

DR. MOREHOUSE FUNKHOUSER, PRES. OF DRAKE U, HAS A COMET NAMED FOR HIM WHILE A SPECIES OF THE CECOPIDEA BUGS
IS NAMED AFTER DREW D. FUNKHOUSER, DEAN OF THE U. OF K.

SEND YOUR ODDITIES TO ASSOCIATED COLLEGIATE PRESS, MINN.

Your Film Report Card

By CHARLIE LUTHER

Thursday, Sept. 22

“BREAKING THE ICE”—Robbie Breen, Charlie Ruggles and Delores Costello.

The young protege of Eddie Cantor will hold the center of attraction in this show with Charlie Ruggles putting in
his witty remarks.

Hunted high and low for something on the show but search ended with no success, so you will have to
draw your own conclusions.

Friday, Sept. 23

“SMASHING THE RACKET”—Chester Morris is the “Big Shot” with ideals and he jumps dangerously into the fray and gets his
men after trouble. Mercer, Bruce Cabot, Francis Edward Pawley, and Rita Johnson rush around obeying his orders and being stiffly
romantic at times.

Saturday, Sept. 24

“THE AFFAIRS OF ANNABEL”—Jack Oakie and Lucille Ball

Pounds lighter but still funny. Jack Oakie stars with Lucille Ball in the inaugural effort of a new series about
an actress and her press agent. It’s a comedy of sure-fire brand and seems certain to please everybody. Lucille Ball,
with her best opportunity so far, makes good on high promise of her previous performances. She fences cleverly with Oakie
for laughs.

Mon.-Tues., Sept. 26-27

“THE AMAZING DR. CLITTERHOUSE”Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

Mortis, and Drnee Cabot. Mercer, Francis Coase

SAYINGS
Wise and Otherwise

None preaches better than the ant and says nothing.
Man wisely thinks ten times as often as he wisely acts.
If you are not tired at night you are not doing your part.
Setbacks stiffen the backbone if it's made of the right stuff.
If you find yourself tempted to swell up, visit a cemetery.
The modern wife's cigarette bill makes her husband fume.
Success is almost as hard to maintain as it is to acquire.
"Knowing yourself," says the philosopher. Yes, but who is going to introduce us?
If you owe a debt, pay it; if you owe a grudge, forget it.
Whoever does a thing best ought to be the one to do it.
A lie adds variety to life, but

HOUSE — Edward G. Robinson, Claire Trevor, and Allen Jenkins. This picture is one of the best crime school shows
that has been produced in a long while. The plot depicts the crime experiments of a doctor, portrayed by Edward
G. Robinson, a medico, who is writing "Crime and Research." Determined to get factual material for the book, the doctor
involves himself with a gang of criminals and becomes their "brain trust." He is carried away by these experiments and
commits homicide. Robinson is most favorably supported by Claire Trevor, Humphrey Bogart, Allen Jenkins, and many others.

Writing a dirt column is not the easiest work in the world, especially when you don't have a bodyguard built
on the general lines of Jack Dempsey to whom you can refer all complaints. So following in the footsteps of
the illustrious Al Cade, your wary columnist has decided to remain for the present a nonentity spying upon the college
cut-ups and revealing himself only on Wednesday afternoons as the Super Snooper who sees all, knows all, and tells all
the dirt that's fit to print and all the rest that can be sneaked by the censors. You've had your
warning. You better be good or the Super Snooper will find you. And if you don't like it, just jump
on Al.

While it was my intention to give all of you fair warning before divulging your secrets, one person this past
week that the campus just cannot be kept ignorant of his activities any longer. Unorthodox tactics in wooing reached their
zenith with the entrance of Hemplail into the life of Charlotte damsel this fall. Sources have revealed that this local
powerhouse eliminated all opposition for the past weekend by keeping his arch-rival busily working at the Stud Store.

If we were running a hats-off department, our vote this week would certainly go to Cheerleader Dick Taylor. Dick received
a telegram just before the Citadel game that his grandfather was critically ill; and while Dick was in anything but
a cheering mood, he stayed until the game was over to lead the Davidson yells.

Football is in the air at last. Memories of great games of past years being refreshed — beautiful girls wearing
enormous chrysanthemums — alumni down at Fraternity Court meeting all the new pledges — futile attempts to snag a box
of cough drops during the half — all will be in full swing in another week or two with anticipation
based on memories of past years bringing a tingling feeling to all upperclassmen.

Charleston, beautiful old city of great traditions, was rudely interrupted from its peaceful tranquility by the carloads of Davidson students
pouring into town to see the Wildcat tame the Bulldog. Notable happenings included Harry Gasleiger on an investigation trip with
new-found friends and Charlie (Big Mug) Smith introducing a new food delicacy at Henry’s. But the real misunderstood roles of
the week were the US sailors who sacrificed their time during the half to be with the Davidson team only
to have their sociable visitation unappreciated by the Davidson coaching staff.

That's all for this week, but I'll be back next Wednesday after some real Super Snooping at the State game.

A YANK AT DAVIDSON
By George Milne

But we will forget our social obligations and refuse to attend either the premiere or any subsequent performances. We're glad
to see that our "Prexy's" residence has been given a painting during the summer. But there is something just a
little bit too shiny about it... like that crazy tank last year... Davidson still has its jitterbugs, etc., evidenced by
the delegation list to Chick Webb at the Armory, with the SP presence... the local Charlotte Observer popularity of Charles
Driscoll, Winchell showed the "snooper" the winner. He's a home-town boy so I should be glad... but not much of
his patter interests one away from the "stem." Too much Broadway, in spite of his occasional news scoops.

Landmarks: The Eagle's Nest still sticking its ugly head over the campus... this year its customary intellectuality is mixed with
athletics, with four of the five first-string basketball players as well as a variety of pigskin pushers resting under its
ancient roof. We were promised a new library on its site... with the lawn so dry one can readily see
the ghost of old Chambers clearly outlined. Or on a wet day one can scan the stone wall opposite the
humming corner the score of the day when we beat Trinity (Duke). What money can draft!

Resolution of the year: No griping!

QUEEN CITY TO HAVE
(Continued from Page One)

In addition to these, the floats will be interspersed between the bands. For the parade, the Charlotte Chamber of Commerce
will have as their guests for dinner the Davidson and N. C. State College bands. An enormous crowd is expected
to fill the stadium to capacity to see the first game between Davidson and N. C. State.

When our character will not defend us, explanations will not vindicate.
Gossip is the mother-in-law of invention.
Virtue is largely a matter of temptation.
Bad ink is better than the best memory.

Davidson, N. C.

A wishbone is no good without a backbone.
Great merit is coy, as well as bold; it shrinks from observation and subtracts from its safety.
The gods cannot help a man who wastes opportunity.
The more a man talks about a thing, the less he knows.
A lot of people wait for the "breaks" until they are broke.
Selling the best isn't facing the prospect.
Get what you go after — it breeds respect.
Forethought often prevents afterthought.

Students - Alumni - Parents
SUBSCRIPTION OFFER

Business Manager, The Davidsonian,
I am enclosing a check for One Dollar and a Half ($1.50) for one year's subscription to The Davidsonian.

NAME
ADDRESS
CITY
STATE
