Class Elections In Full Swing

ALENDA Che Mabidsonian LUX UB! ORTA LIBERTAS

Campus Celebrates Founder’s Day

VOL. XXV DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., WEDNESDAY, APR. 13, 1938 NO. 29

Hoey Gives Speech At Celebration of 101st Founder’s Day

GIRLS ATTEND QUEENS’ 2s Speaker

Birth of Maxwell Chambers Also Observed Yesterday, April 12

Davidson College observed the combined holidays of Founder's Day, the Sesqui-Centennial of the Constitution, and the Sesqui-Centennial of the birth of Maxwell Chambers with a celebration featured by an address by the Hon. Clyde R. Hoey, Governor of North Carolina.

Gov. Hoey Speaks

The holiday began at 10:15 A. M. with an address by Governor Hoey on the subject “The Constitution of the United States.” Gov. Hoey was well qualified to talk on this subject, as he is recognized as one of the outstanding lawyers, statesmen, and orators of North Carolina.

Of particular interest to the students of Davidson was the presence of the students of Queens College for the second annual Queens-Davidson Day. The program included a baseball game with Lenoir Rhyne College and a performance by Colin the Magician which all attended.

101st Birthday

Founder's Day is the celebration of the one-hundred-first birthday of Davidson College. On March 12, 1835, the first step toward founding Davidson was taken, and on April 7, 1836, the cornerstone of the first building was laid. It was not, however, until March 1837, that the college under Dr. Robert Hall Morrison and two other professors opened the doors. The new college had plenty of moral support from the Scotch-Irish who settled northern Mecklenburg county, but its material resources were very limited.

Dr. Lingle has recently said that the statement that every institution is the lengthened shadow of some man does not apply to Davidson College. He stated, however, that Maxwell Chambers is one of the more important names.

Band to Give Performance

Spring Concert to Be Presented Under Direction of Robert C. Smith

The Davidson College Symphonic Band will present its annual spring concert here tonight in Chambers Auditorium at 8:30 under the direction of Robert C. Smith.

As a feature of the program, J. B. Separk will play a clarinet solo, “Fantasia on Rigoletto.” Mr. Separk is at present director of the Kannapolis Band and is a virtuoso on the clarinet. In the past, he has played with several of the most famous concert bands in the nation.

Smith To Conduct

The guest conductor for the evening’s performance, Robert C. Smith, has been serving as director of the band during the second semester in the absence of James Christian Pfohl, who is now studying at the University of Michigan. Mr. Smith is also director of the Charlotte High School Band. There will be no admission charge for tonight's performance.

The program will be as follows: “Marche Militaire Francaise,” (Finale from Algerian Suite) by Saint-Saens; Suite “Atlantis,” (The Lost Continent) by Safranek; Concert Fantasia on “Rigoletto,” by Bassi, clarinet solo by Mr. Separk; Minuet from “Don Juan,” Mozart; Overture to “Oberon,” Von Weber-Tobani; “Chinese Wedding Procession” (Continued on Page 6).

Dances Held

Series Presented By Pan-Hellenic Council

The last set of dances for the year 1937-38 was presented last weekend, April 8-9, by the Pan-Hellenic Council at the Charlotte Armory with Dean Hudson and his Florida Clubmen furnishing the rhythm.

The series consisted of a tea dance Friday afternoon and a formal dance that night. On Saturday, another tea dance was given that afternoon and an informal followed that night.

The Armory was decorated gaily in spring colors with Easter as the theme. Green rabbits were posted on a background of white on the walls, while white streamers draped from the gondola in the center. This set was the last to be furnished by this year’s council and special efforts were made to make them the best.

The most impressive part of the evening was the figure held that night at the formal affair. The new initiates of Scabbard and Blade with other members were the participants in this leadout. The new men formed an arch of sabers through which the members of the organization and their dates were led first by Martin Lafferty as Cadet Lt. Col. and his date, Miss Caddie Willis, who then proceeded to distribute the favors. The assembly then ended in a circle of crossed sabers and their no-break followed.

Herman B. Wells, 35, new Indiana University president, is the youngest man ever to head that state institution.

Alumni Journal Will Feature Dr. Harding

Dr. C. R. Harding’s fifty years as a professor at Davidson will be featured in the April issue of the Alumni Journal, which will appear the last of this month.

A candid shot of Dr. Harding will adorn the cover of the magazine. Since Dr. Harding has been connected with the college either as a student or as a professor for more than half its existence, this is considered quite appropriate. In addition to this feature, there will be a story on the Federal Writers Project by Buck Shaw, class of ’26. There will also be a feature on Davidson men in the Law field with pictures of twenty or thirty of them. In addition, there will be a story on Mexico by Hervey Ross, ’36.

Photographic Contest Won By C. R. Parker

Kunz Depicts “Dipsy Doodle” To Capture Song Title Prize

Hear Ye! Hear Ye! The photographic contest has at last been judged and here are the winners. Bob Parker won the regular contest while Walter Kunz took top honors in the song titles. Parker's picture of Iverson high jumping and Kunz’s conception of the “Dipsy Doodle” are the winning pictures. W. E. Cobb was runner-up in both contests.

Dr. Lyons, one of the judges, said that the first twelve ranking pictures were all very good, and that he and Fred Smith, the other judge, had a hard time deciding the order in which they should be placed. He said that the many different kinds of subjects in the pictures made them extremely hard to judge.

The College Pharmacy, The Davidsonian, and the judges were very pleased and very grateful for the great response they received from the student body and were surprised at the amount of knowledge showed by the entries.

The following are the winners and the prizes they will receive: First, Parker—an Eastman Jiffy Kodak; second, W. E. Cobb—5 8x10 Mastercraft Enlargements; third, D. C. McLean—a corsage of Smith's flowers; fourth, Buck Pharr—a Biltmore Ice Cream Cake; fifth, Duck Pharr—an Agfa Ansco Box Camera; sixth, Victor Hollis (Continued on Page Six).

Col. Rhett Is Transferred

Colonel Rhett Will Leave Aug. 5 For New Post

Lt.-Col. John Taylor Rhett, professor of Military Science and Tactics at Davidson for the past six years, will leave the college next August 5 to assume his new duties with the 18th Infantry, located at Fort Hamilton in Brooklyn.

Lt.-Col. Rhett received his notice of transfer several weeks ago. He will remain in Davidson during the remainder of the academic year, but his connection with the college will terminate this summer. He came to Davidson in 1932 from the Army War College, which is situated in Washington, D. C. His term here was completed two years ago, but his application for an extension of time in his present post was granted by the War Department.

Lt.-Col. Frederick M. Armstrong, who is now stationed with a unit of the Organized Reserves at Tucson, Arizona, has been named as his successor. Lt.-Col. Armstrong will arrive in Davidson on July 5, immediately after which he will be relieved of his present post to assume his new duties here.

Queens Girls Visit Campus

Girls Help Davidson Celebrate

Approximately two hundred girls from Queens College visited the campus en masse yesterday to help Davidson celebrate its one hundred and first anniversary. The girls arrived from Charlotte on special buses at 2:30 yesterday afternoon, and were met in front of Chambers building by the twelve men in charge of the date bureau. Here the girls received their dates for the day’s activities, and were ushered to the baseball field to be spectators at the Davidson-Lenoir Rhyne baseball game.

After the game, the dates were taken to various social centers on the campus and entertained until 6:30. Then the girls were separated from their dates to be served supper by the college in the banquet hall of Chambers along with the members of O. D. K.

At 8 o'clock the girls rejoined their dates and were taken to the gymnasium where they were entertained by Colin the Magician.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

Haaa es any: Nipha Epsilon social fraternity, their dates, and attended the performance of Coline the magician, in Chambers Auditorium. At the conclusion of this show, a reception with light refreshments was given for the entire assembly. Sheets with the girls’ names were posted on the bulletin board of Watson Street. The freshman advisor, Georgia Dormitory, declared that he was forced to postpone the election of new officers until today because of the Founder's Day program and the address in the chapel by Gov. Clyde R. Hoey, Tuesday morning.

The Davidson summer school will open on the 15th of June instead of the 13th as was previously announced, said Prof. I. K. Fleagle today. He stated that, in addition to the courses previously announced, there would be a class in German 11 and 12, to be taught by Prof. Beaty, and a Chemistry 41 and 42 class. There will also be a special course in Hygiene and students needing only 10 hours credit. This class will meet for only three weeks. Prof. Fleagle also noted that the entire Third Annual Davidson Summer School Music Camp will open on June 20 and will continue until the 30th. Prof. James Christian Pfohl will be in charge of this camp.

The Summer School Bulletin, containing full information about courses, professors, and other details, will appear in about two weeks and will be available to students then.

West Virginia University has in its student body 70 sets of brothers, 23 sets of sisters, and 63 brother and sister duos. Northwestern University sororities have given up hell week activities.

Prof. Juan Zamora will lecture here April 14-15. Dr. and Mrs. Clemente Perez Cabrera will accompany him. Prof. Zamora will speak in Spanish Thursday night on “Cuba y Cubanos” at 8:30 P.M., and in English Friday night on “A New Interpretation of the History of Latin America” at 7:30 P.M. Dr. Perez Cabrera may speak on “Como el Pueblo de Cuba conquistó su Independencia Política.” They will arrive here Thursday on the 9:18 train and will be met by Prof. Fleagle. They will remain here until Sunday morning. Prof. Zamora is a professor of political science at the University of Havana. He has studied at Columbia, Harvard, and Paris. He is a member of the National Academy of Political Science (Cuba), Director of the Study of the Institute of Welfare and Social Reform, and a member of the Institute of Pan-American Law.

This arrangement of tours is being made by a group of southern universities, each having representatives of the other to lecture at its schools in order to have a better understanding between the schools and the work they are doing. Prof. Zamora will go to W. C. U. N. C., and then to Duke, after he leaves here.

In the final ballot for president of the Athletic Association, Bob McClellan defeated Ned Iverson by a vote of 170 to 104. Jimmy Jones defeated Frank Niven for the post of secretary-treasurer, 171 to 118. On the first ballot, Bill Bolin was elected first vice-president of the association with George Richmond winning the office of second vice-president at the same time. There were 167 votes cast for Bolin and 104 for Richmond.

Robert McClellan, from Johnson City, Tennessee, a member of the rising senior class, and a blocking back on the '37 edition of the Wildcat football team, was elected President of the Athletic Association for the coming college year. He is a member of Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity. He was president of the freshman class last year and is the retiring first vice-president of the student body. Bolin is from Mascot, Tenn., and Richmond is from Concord. Each made his letter in football, Bolin being a fullback and Richmond a guard.

Retiring officers of the Athletic Association are Fred Dennis, president; Dave Warden, first vice-president; Ned Iverson, secretary-treasurer; and Gales McClintock, secretary and treasurer.

Results of the third ballot for officers of the rising junior class showed Gales McClintock holding a 51-48 vote lead over Dick Kenyon for president with all other candidates eliminated. On the same ballot, Bits Watkins was elected vice president after a close race with Jim Currie, while Karl Hudson and Harper Beall remained on the ballot for the office of secretary-treasurer. The count was Hudson 44, Beall 42.

In the first vote, McClintock led the race for president, Currie for vice president, and Beall for secretary-treasurer. The voting was close and no one had over an eight-vote lead on the man next to him. In the first ballot, the candidates for president were McClintock, Holland, Ficklen, and Kenyon; for vice president were Currie, Watkins, Colvin, and Akers; for secretary-treasurer were Beall, Ramsey, Hudson, Dunford, and Thomas. The voting in the second ballot was even closer than in the first. McClintock and Kenyon tied for first place in the presidential race with 47 votes apiece while Ficklen was close behind with 36. Watkins, with 44 votes, led Currie by five for the vice presidency. For secretary-treasurer, Beall led with 23 votes, Ramsey was second with 18 while Hudson was close behind with 17 and Harper with 15. In the vice presidency, Colvin and Akers tied for third place with 18 each in the second vote, thus eliminating both of them from the third ballot. Also in the second vote, Dunford and Thomas tied for fourth place with 15 each for secretary-treasurer.

Davidson concluded an undefeated debate season by winning a unanimous verdict over Hampden-Sydney last night in Phi Hall. The Davidson affirmative side of the question, “Resolved: That the National Labor Relations Board should be empowered to enforce arbitration in all industrial disputes,” defeated Messrs. McCorkle and Bert Gartrell of Hampden-Sydney. The judges of this debate were Dr. W. P. Few and Dr. C. E. S. Bailey. Other debaters from Hampden-Sydney, Walter Godsey and Bob Harper, who are to debate a different question with colleges on the team’s southern trip, had the question, “Resolved: That the United States should cease trade relations with any aggressor nation.” Godsey is a former president of the Union Philanthropic Literary Society of Hampden-Sydney.

Dr. Donald Stewart, Pastor of the Presbyterian Church at Chapel Hill, will be the speaker at the Sunday night Vesper Service on April 17. Dr. Stewart is a graduate of Davidson College. He studied for the ministry at the Louisville Theological Seminary. After that, he spent a year doing graduate work in Edinburgh, Scotland. Dr. Stewart is not a stranger at Davidson. He comes with high praise of the work he is doing at Chapel Hill. He is very popular with both students and faculty at the University of North Carolina.

Massachusetts was the first land grant college in New England. It was established in 1863.