WEDNESDAY, MARCH 23, 1938. THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Three

Dr. Ben R. Lacy Preaches At Sunday Night Vespers
Addresses Audience on the Subject “The Ministry As A Vocation”

The feeling of responsibility by the death of those who died ignorant of Christ calls many to the ministry, declared Dr. Ben R. Lacy, president of the Union Theological Seminary of Richmond, in an address Sunday evening. The subject of Dr. Lacy’s talk was “The Ministry as a Vocation” and was in line with the addresses brought here by the Guidance committee. He gave the qualifications for choosing the ministry and listed five motives.

Ministry A Calling

The speaker explained that the vocational ministry is not a profession but a calling. Unless one has a definite religious experience and feels a divine call, he should not consider this field, nor will he be permitted by his Presbytery to begin preparation. Quoting Dr. Herbert Worth Jackson, in a discussion of the difficulties of choosing a wife or profession, Dr. Lacy suggested that prayer will help one in his choice. But even after this one must make a definite surrender to God before accepting a call.

Dr. Lacy then gave five motives which are or are not to be considered. The first, one not to be considered, is the thought of material gain. The second in this class is the desire to be an exhibitionist. The thought of prominence and pleasure must be banished.

Minister’s Life Full

The other three motives include a desire for fullness of life, a feeling of responsibility, and compassion for one’s fellow man. There are few restrictions to the life of a minister; he comes in contact with all classes and emotions of human life. His full life finds fruition in his children, who number one out of every twenty in Who's Who. “Really surrender to God, become obedient to His will regardless of your own plans, and God will call you to the best field,” concluded the speaker.

Dr. Lacy conferred with members of the student body who were interested in the ministry after Vespers Sunday evening and Monday morning.

Riflers Finish Firing Season
Theiling Leads R.O.T.C. Rifle Team in Final Match

The R.O.T.C. rifle team completed its firing for the year when it finished the shooting required on the Hearst Trophy Match on March 15th and 16th. The Hearst Trophy Match is a nation-wide affair participated in by all R.O.T.C. units in the country, including the University of Hawaii. The conditions of the match call for a five-man team, each man shooting five shots in each of the four positions: sitting, kneeling, standing, and prone. The team made an aggregate score of 901 out of a possible 1000. It is believed that a score as high as this will place well within the first ten of the thirty-odd teams competing in the Fourth Corps Area.

Bob Theiling led the team in this match with a score of 185 out of a possible 200. But for a bit of bad luck in the standing position, Theiling might have won the watch offered for the high individual score in the match, as he made an excellent score of 50 prone, 50 sitting, 48 kneeling. However, in his standing, he let one shot get away for a miss, and this one shot ruined his chances of winning the watch. Captain Springs Pharr was second with 183, W. S. Kunz third with 180, H. Bolin fourth with 178, and Howard Woodward completed the fifth man with 175.

The marked improvement shown over last year’s score and over scores made earlier in the season is a great satisfaction to Major Ballard and Major Steele, who have coached the team. Both men have worked hard and long over the team, and as a result, the Davidson College rifle team was one of the best in a number of years. In addition to the above, Davidson fired sixteen correspondence matches with individual institutions. While the percentage of wins in these matches was not as high as could have been desired, the team acquitted itself very creditably and served warning that with another year of seasoning and experience it will be hard to beat. Much credit is due to the freshmen members of the squad (Continued on Page 6).

Funeral Rites Observed For Louise Cowan
Dr. Richards; Professor Beaty Hold Services

The funeral services for Miss Louise Cowan were held at three o'clock Monday afternoon in the Presbyterian Church of Davidson. Dr. C. M. Richards and Professor E. A. Beaty, both close friends of the deceased, conducted the last rites. Mrs. G. R. Vowles sang two selections, “Beautiful Isle of Somewhere,” and “Abide With Me,” for the service. The pallbearers were Charles Brown, John McQueen, Harry Frampton, Locke White, Warren Gaw, and Louis Hipp, students at Davidson and members of Kappa Sigma fraternity, in which Miss Cowan showed a great interest.

Miss Cowan passed away on Sunday afternoon at 3:30, at the home of her sister, Mrs. Graham Gibson. She had been ill for nearly a month previous to her death. She was born and reared in the town of Davidson, and for many years she served very capably as the nurse of Dr. J. J. Withers. She was known and loved by people from miles around while serving in this capacity. She was very active in the church work in her local community. She is survived by two sisters, Mrs. Gibson of Davidson, and Mrs. Barnette, of Clover, S.C.

Crane Is Delegate

Paul Crane was sent by the Student Volunteers as a delegate to the Student Foreign Missions Fellowship conference at Columbia Bible College, Columbia, S.C., March 12 and 13. Crane reported on the progress and activities of the Student Volunteer group of Davidson and returned with many concrete suggestions and ideas to be put into use here at Davidson.

Vocational Guidance

As soon as open dates can be settled with the college, the Y.M.C.A. Cabinet, with Dick Vowles in special charge, will sponsor a series of three lectures on the topic of the various vocations. Two of the speakers will be men prominent in the fields of law and business in Charlotte, and the college will present a speaker on Education. Dr. McNyder's and Dr. Ben R. Lacy’s visits were part of this program.

DeLuxe Ice Cream
Mooresville, N.C.
Phone 56

Davidson Boys Give Ideas On Girl Qualities
Students Express Views About Ideal Girl in Converse Questionnaire

Belles of Converse College may learn some surprising things about what's expected of them by Davidson gentlemen when they scan the results of the questionnaire sent here recently by their college bi-weekly, “Parle-Voo.”

For example, the Davidson man-about-campus definitely does not prefer blondes. There are just 90 boys here who'll take a brunette or brownette for every one that would rather have a blonde. Moreover, if the young lady is a red-head, she might as well dye now, for there were only two votes for that tint.

If a girl would like to see any Davidson boy beat a path to her door, let her keep in mind that she'll have a much better chance if she is serious and independent. Let her be the athletic type if she must, or even a “clinging vine” or “prom-trotter,” but never must she be a flapper. The only vote the flapper received was cast by a lad who generously voted for all kinds.

But anyway, the young lady who dates a boy from Davidson need expect no candy or flowers. Over 67 percent of the local swains say flatly that they are not the type. “Haven't the money,” was the usual reason, but others were, “Because I'm no fool,” and “It's undemocratic.”

Incidentally, most Davidson dates like their girls small rather than tall. Not that they are emphatic on the point, though; balloting was close. Quite a few, in fact, wrote in “medium” on their sheets, though no blank was provided for it. The color of a girl’s eyes doesn't matter much either.

You Pick the Editor

The managing editors of The Davidsonian as shown above have completed their work as such and will be voted on soon for editor. These informal pictures show the boys working hard on their respective pages to put out the weekly edition. Top left shows Marquess and Bell designing their pages. Upper right shows Calvin and Sloan taking time out for a breath of air. Lower left pictures Coghill and Porter assiduously pursuing their duty.

Louis Untermeyer Speaks On “The American Arts”
Noted Lecturer Called “Most Versatile Genius” By Amy LowellLowell “the most America,” spoke arts” | thor my tile genius in on “The American Chambers auditorium by versa Ww ast seem of much consequence either Mr. Untermever was born in New Interesting if not startling were York and reared and “miseducat the qualities listed as most admired” there. Unable to graduate from able in a girl. Sincerity, intelligence, high school he compensated for good looks, refinement, a sense of that failure in life by becoming an humor, and dancing ability were author, editor, lecturer, and itiner mentioned on most lists, though 44, pedagog, devoting much of his perhaps in different words. Chel time to teaching teachers how to teach no angel” was rather typical. The speaker's subject for the lec The author got an enthusiastic ture was on the American Art response when they asked what His lecture was broad in scope, and qualities were most disliked. An- though it remained informal in swers ranged from cursing and tone, had a wide range of the arts drinking, to fallen arches. Gushing and their social implications. The and insincerity were predominating audience was often surprised to complaints. hear him rise from facetiousness to serious heights and vice versa. He is one of the few literary figures who has made a success in both the business and artistic world. He retired from a large manufacturing jewelry business, of which he was vice president and factory manager. His many collections and original volumes are in every public library, and his annual Spring Concert pre- titles have been adopted as sented Wednesday textbooks in high schools and universities throughout the country. The college Glee Club under the Before he was fifty he had writ direction of Professor Thane M. ten and compiled more than thirty Donald, presented its annual spring volumes of prose and verse, one of concert in Chambers Auditorium which, “The Donkey of God” won Wednesday evening of last week. the first prize for the best book on The club, which is limited to 30 Italy written by a non-Italian, and members, opened its concert with another, “The Book of Living a group of sacred numbers. These Verse,” printed simultaneously in selections were followed by a piano London, Paris, Hamburg, and Mi solo by the Glee Club's accompan- lan, was hailed as the logical suc- ist, Donald Davidson. He played cessor to the Oxford Book of Eng- Moszkowski “Etincelles,” and lish Verse. When the Encyclopedia this was so enthusiastically received Britannica was last revised that he played as an encore he was elected to contribute the “Sparks.” Following Davidson's solo Mr. Warren Perry Babcock played a violoncello solo, “Spanish Dance” by Granados, also received an encore for which he played “Old Refrain.” Mr. Babcock was accompanied at the piano by Prof. McDonald. The varsity quartet, composed of Harper Beall, John Wilson, Stuart Oglesby, and James Ballard, offered two selections, “The Street Urchin’s Medley” and “Nut Brown Maid,” singing as encores “The Bee” and “Genevieve.” The concert closed with a group (Continued on Page 6)

CITY CAFE & SPENSER BROS. COLLEGE DINING “WHERE FRIENDS MEET TO EAT” Cameras ..$1 to $15 FILMS - EASTMAN & AGFA ANSCO Bulbs - Photo Flood & Photo Flash—We Loan Cameras Free “PHARMACY DAVIDSON’S “SERVICE DRUG STORE” Next Door to P. O. and Just as Popular MOORESVILLE, N. C. For Frat. Parties - Capacity 90 People Dr. Elliott Is Louis Untermeyer, noted au- To Make Talk Prominent Professor Makes Speaking Tour of South Dr. William Yandell Elliott of Harvard government department has been secured to deliver an address on the subject of “The World British Diplomacy.” Dr. Elliott, an outstanding democrat in the field of political science, is the author of several books, including “The Pragmatic Revolt” and “The Need to Reform.” This last book excited attention on its unusual publication in 1935. Dr. Elliott graduated from Vanderbilt University, received a Rhodes Scholarship, and his doctor’s degree from Oxford University. He is a native of Tennessee. He has been associated with Harvard since 1933 and won a full professorship in 1938. He is now chairman of the department.

“Y” Deputations Deliver Talks There were two Y.M.C.A. deputations last week-end, Bill Loflin going to Charlotte to teach the Sunday School class held at the Y.M.C.A. there while Gordon Riggan and John Gilmer went to Mooresville. In his talk to the six or eight boys in Charlotte Sunday, Loftin told the story of a Scotsman who knocked at the door of a house, and when a lady opened it asked her, “Does Christ live here?” Riggan preached to the Sunday night congregation of the First Presbyterian Church in Mooresville on the subject, “Who Cares?” John Gilmer led in the singing of the hymn.

Michigan. He will return to the college at the beginning of next session.

Program .. Thurs.-Fri. March 24-25 “Hurricane” Dorothy Lamour Jon Hall Mon.-Tues. March 28-29 “Wells Fargo” Joel McCrea Bob Burns Frances Dee

CAROLINA THEATRE Mooresville, N. C.

Vivier Speaks At Charlotte Addresses “L’Alliance Francaise” Group Major Max Vivier spoke last Monday, March 21, to the Charlotte L’Alliance Francaise on the subject “De L’aube au Crepuscule” (From Dawn to Twilight), at the Queens-Chicora college auditorium. Major Vivier, a French author and speaker who hails from New Orleans, was formerly an officer in the French army, but at present he devotes his time to lecturing throughout the United States and Canada to groups of L’Alliance Francaise. His lecture was given in French but a short synopsis of his talk was given in English for the benefit of those who did not understand the language. Many French students from Winthrop College, Davidson College, Queens-Chicora College, and the third-year class at Central High School in Charlotte were invited to attend the meeting. Several Davidson students journeyed to Charlotte to hear the lecture. After the program an informal reception was given by the host club.

Gwynn Has To Decline Offer To Teach in Summer School At Duke University Dr. Price H. Gwynn, professor of psychology and education, has been invited to serve as director for the Southern Counselors’ Training Institute during its summer session at Camp Sequoyah but due to previous engagements was forced to decline the offer. Dr. Gwynn has already made plans to teach summer school at Duke University this summer and could not possibly fill both positions. However, he has consented to serve as a lecturer. The Institute, established in 1937, is a two-week training period in order to make it possible for camp counselors to receive the best professional training. The signal success of the first institute, which was attended by forty counselors from several states and Canada, showed that there was a real need and desire for this kind of training. Special speakers who will appear as lecturers are Dr. W. L. Funkhouser, Emory University professor, and Dr. W. L. Stone of Nashville.

McDonald Is At Meeting Elected to Executive Board of Association The College Music Department was represented by Professor Thane McDonald, acting director in the absence of Professor James Christian Pfohl, at the North Carolina Education Association convention at Raleigh, last Friday. At the morning session of the North Carolina Music Teachers’ Association, Professor McDonald was elected to the executive board of the association for a three-year term. At the afternoon meeting of the organists’ division he read a paper on the Hammond Electric organ and led a discussion of the instrument afterward. Professor McDonald also attended the state meeting of the Guild of Organists at Raleigh on Thursday, March 24. A reception was given by the host club.

“Greyhound” is always the right answer to any travel question—a ride in the new Super-Coach proves it. Travel at 1/3 the cost of driving.

ROUND TRIP FARES WINSTON-SALEM $1.80 CHARLESTON $6.30 RICHMOND $7.65 ATLANTA $7.65 WASHINGTON $9.30 Drop in or phone for free tutoring on the economic problem of travel.

NEW YORK $14.69 COLUMBIA $3.55 JACKSONVILLE $11.25 HUNTINGTON $13.45 RALEIGH $5.25

GREYHOUND TERMINAL WHITE DRUG STORE