Page Two

The Davidsonian

Founded By the Class of 1915

1937 Member 1938
Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON AVE New York, N.Y.
Chicago - Boston - Los Angeles - San Francisco

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879.

DICK VOWLES - Editor-in-Chief
CHARLES MOORE - Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
Fitzhugh Dade - Assistant Editor
Ovid Bell - Managing Editor
Joe Calvin - Managing Editor
Wesley Coghill - Managing Editor
Terrell Porter - Managing Editor
Perry Sloan - Editor
Billy Marques - Editor
Owen Cooke - Editor
Sam Cothran - Editor
Euclid Fant - Editor
Hector McGeachy - Editor
Yates Faison - Editor
Sam Ryburn - Editor
Henry Baker - Editor
Wesley Coghill - Collection Manager
John Latimer - Advertising Manager
Bill Miller - Asst. Advertising Manager
Andy Turner - Circulation Manager
Terrell Porter - Circulation Manager
Sam Hemphill - Asst. Business Manager

Though time be precious to me, as all irrevocable good things deserve to be, and of all other things I
would not be lavish of it, yet I'll account no time lost that is either lent to or bestowed upon
my friend. — Bishop Hall.

Point System...

So many colleges and universities use a point system or its equivalent that it is a wonder that the possibility
of its use on the campus has not been more seriously considered. We have been told that the local chapter
of Omicron Delta Kappa had a point system by which its members were once chosen. However, no matter how useful
an O.D.K. point system may be, the need of a campus point system is much more important and urgent.

Without a doubt, some men have too much to do in the nature of extra-curricular activity. They admit it. They
say without hesitation that they could have done some of their jobs better if they had had less on their
shoulders. A student is not often the best judge of how much he can handle. He does not always realize
how much effort and work his position on the campus will entail. A student takes more interest in campus affairs
if he believes he is playing a vital part in their activity. The responsibility is good for him and consequently
good for the school, through his effort. By a point system, more men would hold responsible positions on the campus.

Thus, every organization on the campus would be more active, due to a more concentrated activity of those who feel
the responsibility and have the time to bear it. If you must revert to campus spirit, fine in itself but
trite as to phraseology, nothing would be better for it. If the spirit in every organization is increased, how can
the spirit of the whole keep from gaining momentum?

Night Reviews...

The report has it that there have been objections to night reviews given by the professors. We feel that it
is essential that some reviews be held at night. The math professors have found by experience that it is an
almost impossible feat to hold a math review down to one hour, due to the length of time required to
work problems. The students in mathematics feel, almost as a whole, that night tests are necessary. These reviews can interfere
with athletic practices and other activities only when the student lets his work slide until the afternoon before the review.

Freshman Franchise...

Yesterday, the freshman franchise was presented to the student body for a renewed consideration. It has been before the student
body before but it was voted down. The franchise deserves a real consideration, minus the usual prejudices against the frosh.
Admitted that the yearlings should not have privileges on a par with those of upperclassmen. But this should not be
an argument against the franchise.

The freshmen ought to be allowed to vote. They are capable. They belong to the student body. The student body
leaders are their leaders. Why do we wait? Give the freshmen a voice in Davidson College student government!

Absentee Vote...

Every year, it happens. During the most important elections athletic teams, debating teams, and deputations leave the campus often cutting
down the voting student body as much as fifty votes. Obviously, those men deserve a vote even though not on
campus and obviously those potential voters, if provided with the opportunity to vote, might turn the result. And naturally enough,
to make an election fair the whole body of voters should cast their ballots.

Of course, you cannot keep men on the campus to vote when there are more important things to be done
off campus. But, in many cases, the men can be given some opportunity to vote. The most feasible plan we
see to offer is that the particular individual in charge of each election see that the students leaving the campus
have their opportunity to vote before they go. Even though nominations had not been made, in most elections the average
student knows who will come up and for whom he prefers to vote. There may be a few misses in
this system but at least anything would be fairer than the present absence of the greatest possible voting majority.

As Others See It

After studying the matter a bit, we are frank to admit that we have no such thing as an editorial
policy—in the conventional sense of the word. Generally speaking, an editorial policy amounts to deciding at the beginning of the
year what to be for; and what to be against, setting these decisions in a little box at the top
of the editorial columns and then holding yourself the rest of the year within these limits. This would be working
on the same theory as do those professors who outline their lectures at the beginning of the term and never
once veer so much as a comma from those outlines—and our experience with that type of professor definitely has been
uninteresting.

If any editorial staff is to have a policy that is more than a group of words in a bold
box, it cannot be superimposed at the beginning of their term of service but must grow with them, erring as
they err and striking success as they succeed. It is impossible for them to predetermine what their attitude toward specific
issues shall be if they are to best serve the interests of their editorship. They can only keep themselves as
fully supplied with facts as possible and let their attitude be impartially determined by those facts.

—Morningside (Ia.) Collegian Reporter

Senior Slants

DAVIDSON STILL “TOPS”

For the last few weeks we have heard so much criticism of Davidson, some of which was very true, that
I would like to offer a bit of praise. As everyone comes to the end of his four years of
study at a college or university, he wonders if he made a correct decision in choosing his particular school. As
I think back, I am satisfied that I could not have made a better choice than Davidson. Davidson rates second
to none in the scholastic world. Equipped with an excellent faculty and modern buildings, the college has devoted itself for
over a hundred years to its chief mission—developing the minds of young men.

Men have every opportunity to improve themselves physically in varsity and intramural sports. Our varsity teams are not composed of
a small group of “hired hands.” Rather, they are made up of students who have had little previous training in
that sport. Davidson extends unusual chances for spiritual enlargement. The most prominent religious leaders in the South speak during the
church periods. Courses in Bible are taught and all students gather for a chapel period each day. The local “Y”
is active on the campus. Also, there are a great variety of extra-curricular activities open to all; the campus is
free of organized politics; it is not a military school but has military training for those that desire it; there
are few rules that govern students; it has an excellent system of student government; a friendly spirit of co-operation, the
“Wildcat Spirit” permeates the campus.

—HECTOR McGEACHY.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Campus in Cartoon

FRANK R. KING, TRI DELT AT THE U OF ALABAMA, SPURNED A BONA FIDE APPOINTMENT TO THE U.S. NAVAL ACADEMY.
BEING THE NAMESAKE OF HER FATHER, COMM. KING WHO WAS KILLED IN SERVICE, SHE WAS THOUGHT TO BE HIS SON
BY NAVAL AUTHORITIES.

Letters to the Editor (Letters over 300 words in length will not be considered for publication. Letters must be signed,
but names will be withheld if desired).

WICKER SPEAKS FOR FROSH VOTE...

About this freshman vote question—by the time this is read, the Student Body will have presented before them for their
approval an amendment to the Constitution which will give freshmen the right to vote in the spring Student Body elections.
This really means, in plain language, that freshmen would be made a part of the Student Body of Davidson College.
That to me is the main issue.

If any man on the campus were casually asked how many classes there are in our Student Body, he would
almost invariably say “four.” As the Constitution now stands, that is wrong. The freshmen are not a part of us.
(Read Article V, Section 3 of the Constitution). Yet we are always barking for the freshmen to “support this” and
“support that.” We say to them: “Back up your team.” But it is not “their team” as long as they
are not members of this group. How can we expect them to support officers and a government whose privileges they
are denied but to whose rule they must submit?

You say they need discipline? I tell you they need a helping hand. You say that they must stand trial
for a year to prove their right to belong to our student body? Most of those who will “flunk out”
left last semester. Others who do not fit in with us left ere the spring elections. Those remaining have stood
almost seven months’ testing. They are qualified to vote; if you don't believe it talk to them about voting. Let
freshmen be members of the Davidson Student Body!

—MONROE WICKER.

TO THE STATE BOARD OF HEALTH...

Gentlemen: I am a college boy and believe...Aone -) IN THE 1890'S COEDS WERE REQUIRED TO WEAR MORTAR BOARD CAPS
AT ALL TIMES AT OKLAHOMA A&M COLLEGE / EUGENE CLEMENTS DRIVES 620 MILES EVERY WEEKEND FROM HIS HOME IN SOUTH
DAKOTA, TO ATTEND CLASSES AS HE IS TAKING GRADUATE WORK | the Editor _ subject to cutting, _ATl letters con-
although the signature may be many cases which would otherwise have gone unnoticed until the final stages set in. In
an institution as large as a college very often as many as 25 boys are required to use the same
toilets and shower rooms. Under such conditions it would be virtually impossible to absolutely control the spread of such diseases.
Naturally, all that is possible is done to keep the standards of sanitation as high as possible. Of course, such
an idea would cause some opposition from himself in a ephemeral and infantile, decidedly archaic . . . Ecstatically impressed
by surprisingly decent conduct of my pet hates during past two basketball games . . . maybe this is a
gentleman’s school after all, despite narrow-minded referees’ officiating. It certainly could have stood a few disapproving stares . . .
but let the sports staff blow about that. Prime story—inevitable one musician and one musician swing after the same rem.
At Winston-Salem song fest Tuesday night one Dave Newbold, after bellowing lustily upon his agony-pipe, completely captivated delectable damsel from
Salem and "sent" her, but love bubble busted by terpsichorean entree of Warren P. Babcock’s groan box between dashing gauchos
swaying and swans. She fell an easy prey to fiddler’s advances and poor Dave lurched broken-heartedly in vain attempt to
find solace in P. Willie Martin's date. The freshmen vote situation: Personally, I'd enjoy seeing the entire caboodle of freshmen
regulations thrown out the window—silly prep schoolish nonsense, almost infantile—but I can't see the wisdom in admitting the freshmen to
equal footing in voting matters, and still expect them to keep freshmen regulations, when now even, without the vote of
equality, the stupid little beggars run wild—precedent set this year in disappeared laundry, insulted upperclassmen etc. ... Either, get a
big stick, increase rigidity of the regulations, and enforce ‘em—only possible WITHOUT the freshmen vote, OR do the intelligent thing—throw
the freshmen regulations out for worn-out, ill-fitting clothes! . . . and while in progressive and intelligent mood, there are
some other things that oughta be modified. I have ideas in common with most of the college boys of today.
I believe that in a few years these ideas will be abandoned, and the question of venereal diseases will be
of more prominence in the public eye. Even today these matters are being discussed more openly than they were a
few years ago. I am writing this letter to you to let you know how we college boys feel toward
such matters. Yours sincerely, W. TOR. ABOUT OUR TENNIS COURTS... Dear Mr. Editor: I wonder if it is possible to
break through all the heated discussion on school spirit in this column just for a minute to get back to
the subject of tennis courts. Not so long ago someone wrote a letter to you blaming everyone in general and
no one in particular because of the bad condition of the courts. The men who are responsible for the grounds
and athletic equipment were disturbed by this. Mr. White and those who help him put in a good deal of
time last fall and during the winter working on the courts only to have students begin playing on them too
early. It's a great temptation in sunny weather to believe that the ground has dried out and that May has
arrived. It’s easy to ruin the clay surfaces of the courts, too. When I heard this mentioned, I thought I'd
write a note, remembering the high school days when I was a tennis manager and tried to get some co-operation
from the students to save myself work. Common sense ought to tell us not to mess the courts up unnecessarily
during wet March weather, and perhaps the team will have something to play on during the season. —DAVE WOODWARD. From
Campus to Campus Special examinations to show Brown University seniors just what intellectual resources they have to use in facing
the world outside college gates will be given next month when the university tries a unique experiment with “comprehensive inventory”
tests. The tests will attempt to measure “what students know today—what they have retained and have available as current resources,”
Pres. Henry M. Wriston explained. The tests will measure what seniors have learned from extra-curricular activities and from everyday social
and cultural contacts on and off the campus. Joe College reads like an 8-year-old third-grader, and at least one college
professor is doing something about it. Dr. Emmett A. Betts of Pennsylvania State College has conducted exhaustive researches which prove
his point, and he is now treating 31 students in his “reading clinic.” A national shrine for the study of
science and religion and for the training of modern youth in these two courses has been established at Florida Southern
College. The structure which will house the foundation will contain five religious departments, scientific laboratories, a library, an auditorium, administrative
offices and classrooms. ROLLS DEVELOPED Any size roll kodak film developed, eight never-fade Velox prints for 25¢ (COIN). Low prices
on candid film. Mailing envelopes furnished. VALUABLE PREMIUMS GIVEN MAIL YOUR FILMS TO Jack Rabbit Co. SPARTANBURG, S. C. Take
It Easy By Rut Miller AROUND TOWN: There's been a lot of talk in Charlotte about the “Blue Laws,” but
nothing can be done that will please anybody. Doesn't it seem only fair that we should revise our ‘Blue Laws’
here in Davidson, too? For instance: the drug stores are closed all day Sunday and with warm weather approaching scores
of boys will trek every Sunday to the road house to buy something cold to drink and a bite to
eat. We get no commission from the drug stores but it would be most convenient to everyone in town and
besides the men at the drug stores have to work there several hours every Sunday anyway. Someone might mention it
where it would do the most good. I'm sure I don't know where that is. While we're in this mood
here is something else: The other night a man entered a room, opened a bag and displayed a large collection
of neckties. When that brought no encouragement he whipped out a large punchboard from his collection and shoved it in
my face and then proceeded to point out the ones I should punch if I wanted to win the ten
dollars. Again no response and so with mumbled threats he left the room. Now there is a college rule against
these fellows but it cannot be enforced without the co-operation of the student body. So let's not encourage these men
by even being nice to them. If anybody has a dime to throw away sail it in our direction. But
don't encourage these peddlers. RAMBLINGS: We understand that there was quite a large number of men who volunteered to do
this free work for the government during the summer months. That is what I call real patriotism or something—Have you
noticed the pictures in the contest at one of our local drug stores? Some of them show real talent and
originality. Why not submit one of your best snapshots? The prizes are really worthwhile. There should be a rule making
it compulsory for all men to use their electric razors during the Briarhopper program. That is a program worth ruining.
The Junior Colleges should be well pleased with their tournament. The student body acted like civilized spectators and did themselves
proud. Program Thursday, March 3 Friday, March 4 “Angel” Marlene Dietrich - Herbert Marshall Monday, March 7 Tuesday, March 8
“Hold ’Em Navy” CAROLINA THEATRE Mooresville, N. C.
