WEDNESDAY, APRIL 13, 1938 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Five

Two Go To Convention

Marion Bryant and William Bradburn Attend Meeting

Recently there has been a great deal of comment from the student body on the question of developing a better
social life on the campus. The problem is a vexing one and many jumbled and varied suggestions for improvement of
the social life on the campus have been offered, but heretofore, there have been no concrete answers to the problem.

The question presented was: “What do you think would improve the social life on the Davidson campus?”

From the hearty response to the question, it is evident that Davidson men feel the need for such an improvement.
At least, they are willing to offer suggestions for improvement.

Here are the suggestions that have been offered:

Bob Blue, Senior:
“I believe two things could be done to improve social life on the campus. First: I think we should have
a new social building with adequate facilities to entertain visitors, and the non-fraternity students could also entertain their dates there.
Second: I believe a swimming pool would do a great deal toward holding the students on the campus. If a
vote was taken on this question, I think most of the students would vote for a pool! This pool would
give opportunity for exercise and also pleasure.”

Euclid Fant, Senior:
“After a weekend of such glorious festivities, I think we all would like to have the two dances we were
deprived of this year — What about some FINALS? I also think the fraternities would have more freedom for action
if that much longed for understanding could be arrived at between the faculty and the students. We are, of course,
all aware of the urgent need for a social center.”

T. J. Turner, Junior:
“After a week-end of such glorious festivities, I think we all would like to have the two dances we were
deprived of this year — What about some FINALS? I also think the fraternities would have more freedom for action
if that much longed for understanding could be arrived at between the faculty and the students. We are, of course,
all aware of the urgent need for a social center.”

ROTC Officers

Next to turn...

Convention at Washington

On April 4 through the 9th in Washington, D. C., the Institute of Government conducted their annual convention at which
Marion Bryant and William Bradburn were the Davidson delegates. Davidson was one of the southern colleges represented, the other being
Furman. There were 23 colleges represented, among which were Harvard, Yale, Princeton, Wellesley, Springfield, and a host of others.

Confidential Meetings

A complete program was laid out for the attending students, and all meetings were closed to the general public. All
statements by the distinguished host of speakers were and are confidential, made so by the pledge of the audience. It
is the purpose, whole-hearted desire, and aim of this institution, which is conducted by the National Institute of Public Affairs,
to make college students become more interested in government as a whole.

On Monday, April 4th, the group was registered; and a complete tour of the Capitol was made, and also a
visit to the House of Representatives, where Senator Ernest Lundeen of Minnesota addressed the group. Tuesday morning they heard the
Honorable Daniel Roper, Secretary of Commerce, who gave a most inspiring address. They were later received by the Supreme Court.

Other speakers during the week included Solicitor General Jackson, Secretary of Interior Ickes, and the Honorable A. J. Altmeyer, chairman
of the Social Security Board; and other important personages made contacts with the group. All of these speakers addressed them
for approximately half an hour, and then they were questioned by the individuals for about an hour each. Miss Frances
Perkins, Secretary of Labor, was to have addressed the group, but was called to a cabinet meeting.

Another important part of the trip were the series of tours about the surrounding section of the country. They traversed
Washington, visited Alexandria, Va., Georgetown, and other spots of interest. James Roosevelt, son of the President, received them at the
White House. Bryant also happened to be at the meeting of Congress at which the famous Reorganization bill was debated.

Local Pastor Speaks On Moses, the Man of God

Dr. H. M. Moffett, pastor of the Presbyterian Church of Davidson, preached at Vespers Sunday night, choosing Heb. 11:24-27 for
his text and speaking on Moses’ wonderful life and his contributions to the world. He pointed Moses out as one
of the towering figures in history, one who led a people out of slavery, and molded them into an outstanding
nation of the world. He gave his people a system of law which is the basis of current jurisprudence. He
was the human agent through whom God gave his original code which stands today in a world of change, unshaken
in the estimation of all right-thinking men. He brought to an idolatrous world a conviction that there is but one
God, the Creator, Preserver, Redeemer, and Moral Governor of the universe.

Thomas Ingram, Talented Pianist, Receives Applause of Student Body

Thomas Ingram, rising young concert pianist and protégé of the great Josef Hoffman, was guest artist at chapel exercises last
Wednesday morning. The entire student body voiced their approval of his artistry by their hearty applause. He played a group
of three numbers. His first two numbers were Variations on a Theme by Paganini by Liszt and Ritual Dance of
Fire by de Falla. He concluded with the familiar “Star Dust.”

The young artist is a native of Tennessee. He attended the public schools and high school education. On being graduated
from high school, after having won three state-wide contests, young Ingram went to Chicago, where he studied under Rudolph Ganz.
Later he became the protégé of Hoffman, the famous concert pianist, and at present he is a member of the
Curtis Institute faculty. He is also a member of the faculty of the Delaware School of Music.

Dr. Frazer Hood Discusses “The Three Dimensioned Life”

“We lead a three-dimensioned life,” declared Dr. Frazer Hood in his address to the school class Sunday. Dr. Hood's talk
was based on the miracle of the blind man being healed at Bethesda. In the first healing, Dr. Hood pointed
out, Paul possessed the power of the eye but was not obtained in the third dimension. It was only in
two dimensions, and he did not have the ability of depth. It was only by experience that he was able
to gain the next dimension. Dr. Hood then compared this incident with the problems of life.Ingram’s stop at Davidson came
he stated. First the real thing to improve Juniors and Seniors of the ROTC age in his day corresponds to
their divine tour which he is making through North Carolina, Virginia, and Tennessee. His tour follows a more liberal attitude
on the part of the administration or the faculty. Dances and fraternity functions could be held on the campus on
weekends without seriously interfering with the educational functions of the college.

Johnny Sadler, Senior:
“It is evident that a new social center with a reading room and sufficient ping pong tables, etc. is needed
in order to better social life here on the campus. Beyond these organic improvements though, lies room for the inorganic.
For instance, an understanding between students and faculty. Students have good, clean social life off the campus, so why shouldn't
it be secured to the campus?”

Professor William L. Porter, professor of geology and geography, gave a talk to the members of the Davidson Hi-Y club
at their regular meeting last Monday night. The subject of Professor Porter's talk was ‘World Sports.’ In it he described
the different sports of various nations of the world, including Hawaii, Norway, Denmark, the United States, and other countries. A
special feature of his discussion was his lantern slide, which he used to show pictures illustrating his subject. Locke White,
Davidson Junior, is the adviser of the local high school club.

Dr. J. M. Cabrera, shown above, will accompany Dr. Juan Zamora, famous Spanish lecturer, when he visits the campus on
Thursday and Friday. Together with Dr. Zamora, he will hold conferences with students interested.

Two Groups, Speeches, Deputations to Charlotte and Rocky Mount Talk to Youths
Approximately 70 speeches were made in Rocky Mount over the weekend by a Davidson deputation team of six members. The
group talked to all the school children on character-building. The group was in Rocky Mount on April 8, 9, and
10. Archie Torrey, Sherrard Rice, Warren Gaw, and Wade Boggs discussed clean athletics, clean scholarship, clean living, and general character
values. The musical part of the programs was conducted by Dennis Vaugh, vocalist, and Philip Edwards, accompanist. The deputations were
done by the Rocky Mount Y. The deputation spoke against profanity, alcohol, tobacco, and other evils. Pledge cards containing seven
evils to be stopped were passed among the boys who promised to stop these evils themselves for a year.

Rubinoff Is Interviewed At Concert
Violin Artist Kindly Answers Questions Concerning Many Subjects
By PRESTON LINCOLN
“There isn’t any place I’ve to go in Charlotte already, so you might as well stay here and listen to
me play, ‘You Can't Have Everything.’” Thus Rubinoff closed his concert in Charlotte last Wednesday evening at the Armory-Auditorium. After
his concert, he was mobbed by over-enthusiastic autograph seekers. I managed to reach the right side of Rubinoff and asked
him for his autograph. “Sure, glad to,” he replied. To the question, “Which band do you like best?” Rubinoff replied,
“Oh, I don’t have any favorites, they all have their different styles.” He also revealed that both Tommy Dorsey and
Benny Goodman, leading swing kings, worked with him.

“On your radio today, I liked that sport program. You said you like baseball. What do you do yourself?” I
asked. “Sports? I get all I need playing the violin,” he said. “Exercise and conducting, in fact, all I can
stand.” (Those sitting on the first few rows could plainly hear Rubinoff breathing hard during several pieces and actually gasping
during his “Danse Russe.”)

To musicians, Rubinoff gave this advice: “To those taking music, remember that music doesn't grow on trees. You have to
work and work hard. There are great possibilities for music students in this country. This type of concert appeals to
the majority of people and it is inspiring and good. However, one should hear the other type of concert whether
they want to or not, as it is educational. Music is good for one. It is not always the things
that we like that are best. Take school for instance. You don't like it, but one should think everyone should
educate himself.”

Safety Valve
The name of a discussion club at Carnegie Institute of Technology is the most difficult to acquire because we are
always trying to understand what our relation is to other men.

Efird’s Features Smart Apparel For College Men
Reigel Shirts
French Cuffs! Tab Collars!
Tab collars and regular collars in white trim sizes 14 to 17! Expertly tailored.

Hickok Belts and Suspenders
$1.00 and $1.50

Interwoven Sport Sox
35c, 3 prs. $1.00
Interwoven socks in standard patterns and colors.

Sport Shirts
$1.00 and $1.95
Here's the shirt for the young fellows, 3-button pullovers and Barrymore styles. They are made of broadcloth, in solids and
combinations. Expertly tailored.

MEN’S SHOP
STREET FLOOR
“THE FRIENDLY STORE IN A FRIENDLY CITY”
