WEDNESDAY, MARCH 23, 1938. THE DAVIDSONIAN

Shown above is Dave Warden, massive tackle who will be one of the stalwarts in the Wildcat football line next fall. Dave was recently chosen captain of the 1938 Wildcat team to succeed Bailey Williams, who headed the team the past year.

Jerry Harris and Dorothy Davis of Oxford, above, are enjoying a “Heifer Highball” during an intermission at the recent Mid-Winter dances. Captain Howard McFadyen and Desmond Bailey above, are just a tangle of arms and legs as they wrestle it out on the mat while Coach Parks Harrison looks on. Throughout the wrestling, McFadyen turned in stellar performances to finish out his college wrestling career. His peak of success came two weeks ago when he was declared winner in the Southern Conference unlimited class.

In the photo at the right, Profs. O. J. Thies and H. E. Fulcher, of the science dept., are breaking a soft drink bottle. These instructors have been experimenting with bottles for two years, and have testified for soft drink companies.

As the staff pauses to read again the highlights of the year's activities in the 1937-38 history of the Davidson College weekly newspaper, the staff surveys the work published under their administration.

New Type Purchased

Beginning with the first issue, entirely new and different headline type, bought by the paper in cooperation with the Standard Printing Company, topped the Davidsonian stories. In order to take some of the burden from the shoulders of those in charge, Fitzhugh Dade, a member of the senior class, was appointed assistant editor. Dade has been in charge of copy-reading throughout the year.

On October 11, a poll conducted by The Davidsonian revealed that a majority of the students favored Roosevelt and his policies, but were against his serving a third term. Just about this time, a feud broke out between The Davidsonian and The Scripts 'n Pranks over the magazine’s chief boast (which later proved futile) that it could name the artist who decorated the town water tank.

Question of the Week

The Question of the Week, a column which has proved popular with the student body, made its first appearance in the issue of October 20. Metropolitan newspapers had issued a feature of this type previously, but as far as the editors know, The Davidsonian was the first college newspaper to publish the column.

October 27 saw the Phi Beta Kappa-Omicron Delta Kappa issue, the first eight-page edition of the year. Pictures of the students bid to both societies were published, and a large replica of the ODK key was printed in blue ink on the front page.

Homecoming Issue

Coming just after the appearance of Scripts 'n Pranks, The Davidsonian presented its homecoming issue, featuring tales of the gala affairs.

Staff of Davidsonian Surveys Work As Final Edition Fades Into History

Carolina Collegiate Press Association

On November 17, Dean M. E. Sentelle wrote a letter, published in The Davidsonian, exhorting the students to give their support to the new measure advocating prohibition of all drinking at Davidson dances. The November 24 issue carried pictures of Teeny Lafferty and Bailey Williams on the front page as a preceding feature of the annual Turkey Day classic to be played the next day between the Wildcats and Wake Forest.

Subsidization Issue

The meeting of the Southern Conference about two weeks after the Thanksgiving issue, which was principally occupied with discussion on subsidization of athletes, caused quite a bit of comment from the student body in the form of letters to the editor and editorials. Editor Vowles took up half the Christmas holidays counting the votes in the “You Be the Editor” poll which appeared in the next issue, and which revealed that “King for a Day” ranked first in popularity with the readers, while “Question of the Week" was second.

Infirmary Issue

As a tribute to the dedication of the new infirmary, the Davidsonian published on January 12 a special eight-page edition. Eight thousand six hundred copies of the paper were printed that week and sent to friends of Davidson all over the United States. The editors at this time decided to start a new feature to recognize the work of certain men on the campus whoseEfforts usually slip by unnoticed. This feature, known as "The Davidsonian Recognizes," appears the first week of every month, and so far has honored Ellwood Moyer and Julian Helis.

Photo Contest
In the issue of February 12, the business staff of The Davidsonian announced its annual Photo Contest, which it sponsored in cooperation with the College Pharmacy.

Year’s Back Issues Recall Progress and Improvement in Paper
Looking back over The Davidsonian of the preceding weekend, February 12 also was a memorable date in another capacity, for it marked the first of a series of mysterious letters signed “Boru” which deplored the low ebb to which Davidson spirit and interest had fallen. The first and third letters were appeals for the freshman franchise; the second letter advocated a point system and “controlled politics.” In the issue of March 2, Boru’s now looked-for letter was conspicuously absent; but a week later he burst forth anew with a tirade on the thoughtless manner of voting characteristic of the student body. The readers have still to discover Boru's identity.

Art Exhibit Held
Starting what it hopes will be continued as an annual custom, The Davidsonian sponsored during the third week of February an exhibit of student art, in which Gordon Horton’s drawing “A Lady" was judged first by popular ballot. The exhibit proved so popular with the student body and townspeople that the editors now hope to sponsor another this spring.

With the election of a new staff only a few weeks off, the sophomores began to learn the trade on The Davidsonian, and consequently were in complete charge of the issues of March 2 and March 9. With this edition, the present editors make out their last dummy-sheets and sit back to breathe a sigh of relief.

Columns
Viewing once again the back issues, columns besides King for a Day and Question of the Week, which have already been mentioned, seem worthy of note—Rut Miller’s Take It Easy, Letters to the Editor, With the Staff, and Senior Slants. A number of features, such as the one on Emily Post, the interview with the coeds, revelation of the whiskey still, and the stories on Professors Thies and Fulcher’s bottle-testing, Major Steele's Joe Dees, and others, were interesting.

Jim Cowan, above, was the stellar center on the Wildcat basketball team during the past season. In the picture on the left, Henson For a while tall Jim led the Southern Conference in scoring; not only a basketeer, Jim, a transfer this year from Mars Hill, also plays end on the football team.

In the picture on the right and above, local firemen were snapped as they worked atop the Baptist Church in Davidson putting out a roof blaze. This fire broke out Sunday, Jan. 9, during the funeral of Oscar Parler, college janitor.

Prof. John P. Williams, shown at left, recently returned to the campus to teach his last semester of Business Administration at Davidson. He was on a leave of absence this fall; this term he will become director of the educational advisory department of The American College of Life Underwriters.

In the picture above, four college students are viewing a section of The Davidsonian Art Exhibit. This exhibit contained only pictures by student artists and was the first one of its kind ever to be sponsored on the campus.

Earl Mellen and his “Melodies by Mellen” orchestra furnished the music for dancing Davidson students and alumni at the annual Homecoming dance set, held the weekend of November 5-6.

Maples (left), Davidson's crack golf captain, is receiving the championship trophy from Guy Pierce following his upset victory over veteran Robert Harlow in the 35th annual Mid-Winter Golf Tourney at Pinehurst.

Committeemen Billy Battle Crooks and Jim Terry, in the picture on the right, are arranging dates between Davidson boys and Winthrop College girls, on Winthrop College-Davidson day, held last Oct. 30. Cheerleader Dick Taylor, on the table, calls for a Davidson date.