Page Two

Founded By the Class of 1915

1937 Member 1938 Associated Collegiate Press

Distributor of Collegiate Digest

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES Ten cents per copy, $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY National Advertising Service, Inc. College Publishers Representative 420 Madison Ave. New York, N.Y.

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879.

BILL MARQUESS Editor in Chief

CHARLES MOORE Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF Terrell Porter Assistant Editor Jack Abernathy Managing Editor Eric Austin Managing Editor Jack Holland Managing Editor Karl Hudson Managing Editor Sam Spencer Managing Editor Tom Casals Sports Editor J. Ovid Bell Associate Editor Joe Calvin Associate Editor Wesley Coghill Associate Editor Perry Sloan Associate Editor Henry Baker Movie Editor Walt Kunz Staff Photographer

BUSINESS STAFF Wesley Coghill Advertising Manager Andy Turner Circulation Manager Terrell Porter Circulation Manager Sam Hemphill Business Manager

Politics

Thumbing hastily through the pages of some fifty exchange newspapers we notice that scarcely a single editor fails to write at least one editorial on the subject of politics in elections at his college. Rather amusing is the following ultimatum delivered to all candidates for campus offices by the student publication of a well-known Southern college:

“No candidate shall spend more than 25 cents for electioneering means or materials. This maximum includes expenditures by candidate’s friends. Each candidate must submit two statements of all expenditures to the Executive Committee... the first of these statements to be presented to the committee not later than 6 P.M. on the day before the election and the second and final statement to be presented by 9 A.M. the day of the election. The use of intoxicating liquors as a means of soliciting votes is absolutely prohibited, and any violation will disqualify the candidate.”

All of which seems quite funny in comparison with Davidson’s system. The use of intoxicating liquors as a means of soliciting votes is absolutely forbidden. Somehow we can’t imagine a Davidson candidate pitching a beer party to swing a block of votes, or holding a barbecue for all the inmates of Georgia dormitory. How can such sideshow antics influence the votes of any except the mentally inferior? Yet every spring when elections begin at Davidson, some express the wish that we had “open politics.” What good would they do? We want to elect the best man and how could any amount of campaigning or politicking determine which candidate is best? There is only one change that we would like to see made in the Davidson system. Sometimes a candidate’s qualifications are not known to all the voters. There should be some impartial way of presenting this information to the Student Body. However, each candidate is usually known to the voter personally and he can make the best decision when no outside pressure is brought to bear upon him concerning which name he should check on his ballot.

Ungentlemanly Behavior...

Editorials have been written and talks have been made, but to no avail. We are speaking of our conduct in chapel. At times it becomes positively disgraceful, unworthy of Davidson gentlemen. Especially during the devotional exercises each morning is it inexcusable. If you have ever tried to conduct a chapel service, you know how hard it is even when the most courteous attention is paid to your remarks, and the least we can do is show the other fellow the same courtesy that we would like to have. And even if we don’t think enough of the speaker or of our neighbor who is trying to listen to the service, we should at least have enough respect for ourselves to pay reverent attention.

And then with regard to our conduct during the Student Body meeting at the end of the chapel period. A little fun is all very well in its place, but there is such a thing as carrying it too far. When important announcements cannot be heard by everyone it is time something was done about it. Sailing paper airplanes is something we could well do without. We had our fun on “Airplane Day,” so let’s cut it out until that memorable event rolls around next year. Our new Student Body President will soon go into office. His is a hard job at best and, having elected him to the highest position on the campus, we ought to make his task as easy as possible by the simple method of behaving as gentlemen.

Paragraphits...

STUDENT COUNCIL

Our newly elected Student Council was installed last week and is now functioning. This organization is one that receives far too little credit for the tremendously important work that it does in governing the Student Body and enforcing the Honor System. Our whole system of Student Government is built on the Student Council and yet in a few weeks, it would be a safe bet that half the Student Body could not name all the members of the council.

OPEN HOUSE...

This seems well on the road to becoming an annual affair. If it is continued we heartily recommend that in the future the visitors be made to realize that they are causing students quite a bit of inconvenience by lengthening their visits past six o’clock. First floor inhabitants found it very difficult to get dressed in time for supper the other day.

GOOD NEWS...

All inhabitants of West, lend ear. Continuing its policy of improving the dormitories each year, the College is running hot and cold water to every room in your dorm. Positively a luxury for you lads.

Senior Slants

“OUR ELECTION SPIRIT”

In many respects college life during spring elections is abnormal. The tension prevalent over the campus is all too evident. The average student becomes so anxious to see his man win, regardless of merit, that he casts aside his scruples along with the crowd, and goes to any length to accomplish his purpose. Somehow, this abnormal attitude has come to be considered an integral part of what we falsely term “fraternity spirit” during the mad scramble to see which lodge will get the most campus offices. It has almost become a fraternity competition. But the social fraternities are not the only offenders. Too many “friendly cliques” and “hall groups” stick their fingers in the political pie. And it is a pity that such a state of affairs exists.

Despite re-running of elections, individual politics move merrily on. Many a student fills out the ballot of an absentee without proxy. Too often ballots of others are removed and destroyed by ardent but insidious vote-getters who think “that’s pretty smart.” Things reach a pretty pass when an ordinarily conscientious man lets his fraternity affiliations so interfere with his honest judgment that, in a board or staff election, he forgets the merit of the man and backs his “brother.” Yes, it is a strange state indeed. We sit around and gripe how the elections come out. We intimate that the vote-counting was “crooked.” And we slur others for the same things that we do ourselves. When we do make ourselves realize that we are in the wrong, we salve our consciences with the trite phrase “everybody else does it and we have to defend our rights.” What can we do about it? In the first place, we can stop saying that nothing can be done about it. From there on, it is an individual matter. If we refrain from these practices as individuals, the elections as a whole will be a lot cleaner and the results a great deal more honest.

—DICK VOWLES.

At long last, the Supreme Court has decided to review the case involving the right of the federal government to tax receipts for football games played by state colleges. This particular case is brought by the University of Georgia, but other state institutions have protested the payment of the tax on admissions. Up to now, the Federal courts have sustained the state colleges in their contention that football games are fundamental parts of the education program of the state schools and thus exempt from federal taxation. Now the “nine old men” will have their say and the long drawn-out litigation will be settled finally.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Campus

SINGLETON: IS THE ONLY WOMAN AMONG THE 600 STUDENTS AT THE COLLEGE OF THE CITY OF NEW YORK! SHE CLAIMS TO BE A CIVIL ENGINEER.

DR. J.A. GAMEWELL HAS BEEN TEACHING AT WOFFORD COLLEGE FOR 63 YEARS! HE IS THE OLDEST LIVING MEMBER OF KAPPA ALPHA FRATERNITY.

House PARTIES AT OXFORD U., ENGLAND, ARE HELD IN TENTS!

From Campus to Campus By Associate Collegiate Press

Robert Frost, beloved Harvard University poet-teacher, has a reputation for great teaching and great writing. To this leader of students, Leslie poem, had it printed on the New York Times’ editorial page. A portion of “Cobweb College” for Robert Frost follows:

A batch of freshmen came to Cobweb College. The Spider looked them over, frowned and said, “These boys are ghosts of boys, cracked wide with knowledge. Their dreams dried out and the dreamers dead. There's not a meal among them, no written yet fertile illusion to sharpen up my tooth on, No romance for me to ridicule to red confusion, No creed on which to slake my poison lance, I've drawn thee blood too many generations and spoiled the breed. Their fathers, When I wrapped them in casual web and silken strong equations, would lunge and writhe, grimacing when I snapped shed with categories claws. These modern schools condition them until they yearn to yield; their wills are like the blown pigskin that drools November muck field. They murmur, ‘Say, Professor, skip the prodding, just dish it out, the us, the ands, the buts! who'd question Fifty million miles of wadding engendered through the your guts? Welcome the warm cocoon of cozy thought through which we gain the world but lose surprise. We'll answer by your book, man, but not pretend amazement. Thus the pampered flies, and Those who hope for pampering the rest nursing a schoolboy grudge within the tare of mangy-bearded justice are at best a thin and scanty ration for my store.”Soggy ages old. One course in the ‘everyday curricula of college students that is not neglected is sleep—and the average collegian sleeps 56 hours every week. At least those are the facts—determined by the University of Wichita education class of Dean L. Hekhuis.

“The tabulation showed,” the survey report said, “that the persons working the most hours studied the least. One student who works 50 hours in a local dry goods store spends 26 hours studying. On the other hand, a girl sleeping 60 hours does no outside work and studies but 10 hours.” Another conclusion drawn from the compilation was that the student who sleeps the least spends the most time studying.

A professional campaign will be made at Princeton soon, when an eastern intercollegiate Republican club conference will be held there to draw up a model platform for the Grand Old Party. Sponsored by the Stephen K. Little Republican Club of Princeton University, the conference will discuss current political, social, and economic problems and will listen to outstanding speakers in these fields. The platform will be drawn up after listening to speeches and meeting in groups for discussion. The purpose of the meeting is to “crystallize” conservative opinion on eastern campuses, at the same time forming an organization which may meet at a different college two or three times a year.

One of the most unique colleges in the U.S.—an institution that has never had an endowment—will celebrate the 50th anniversary of its founding this year. The College of Puget Sound has never had outside support and has passed through the last eight years with its income always exceeding its expenditures. It has 600 students, four buildings, and a 40-acre campus.

Three presidents elected in one year and still no president in office is the unique record of the University of Minnesota’s Rangers Club. Elections have been held each quarter since last spring, and each time the new president failed to return to classes for the quarter that he was supposed to head the organization.

Dartmouth College, scene of many debates on the value of the present-day college fraternity system, has a new program for the regulation of Greek-letter organizations. Beginning next year, a three-year program to reduce the maximum number of members for each organization to 35 will be inaugurated. Starting with next fall, no one house may pledge more than twenty-one students from a single class. This rule will hold in force the following year, and then at the start of 1940-41, any number may be pledged to bring the total to fifty-five. Hereafter, all pledging will have to be done in the office of Davis Jackson, adviser to fraternities. After 1940, no fraternity may have on its rolls more than five students who are exempt or partly exempt from paying established fraternity dues and taxes. Henceforth, no student who is on probation shall be eligible to be pledged to a fraternity.

“We adapt ourselves to the mediocre. We spoil many fine bricklayers and plumbers by subjecting them to a college education.” The Rev. Raphael C. McCarthy, president of Marquette University, believes there should be fewer college students.

“Yep, we ought to have more tests—if we had more of them the monotony of the instructor's lectures would be broken, because with the tests to give you your grade, you don't have to pay such close attention in class!” Wayne Wild, South Dakota State College student, has a new slant on the ever-present examination debate.

CAMERAS WEDNESDAY, APRIL 27, 1938

King For A Day
CHUBBY KING

After his fancy daubing last week, I rather thought the editor would retain him and let me, people, go. I guess Bob's smart enough to know when he's well off. Hope he'll do the job again sometime because I enjoy the guy's phrasing.

Announcing for next week's issue a Clearing House for Lonely Hearts. Having recently had several very trying experiences in this direction, I feel only too well equipped to handle this somewhat provoking problem. So those of you—most of you—undergoing setbacks of an amorous nature, who desire sincere advice, sympathetically rendered, just drop me a line before next Monday night. This generous offer is not restricted to males—would appreciate feminine inquiries, as I am positive of this column’s ability to furnish satisfaction to lonely females.

The Clemson dances with Grayton—"Do you really love me or is that etc.”... Benny Harrison with reptilian intentions toward Alex Erwin whose Amazonic date earlier in the night nearly threw him out the door... Bidwell Ivy took Charlie Smith's daze into dance where she met another trysting swain—two late dates showed up simultaneously for breakfast engagement... Other important Davidson luminaries there included Rev. Pete Marchant, Tommy Glenn, Bailey Williams, George Mathis, and several others...

A reaffirmation of a Rut Miller suggestion is offered here as a partial answer to the wholesale exit of Davidson students on the weekend. Why not open up the drug stores for at least a few hours on Sunday... the place wouldn't seem so desolate, so absolutely unstirring. You wouldn’t have to walk two miles for a sandwich... You really can’t expect normal young men with supposedly rich red blood to sit around and enjoy mental pleasures for ten or fifteen hours... if we can’t use our golf and tennis facilities, or play softball on Sunday, and imperatively must spend our time in more intellectual pursuits, let’s quit doing it on nearly empty stomachs. (Judging from weekly student store trade, it is assumed that most students have that “in-between-meal” habit).

SPE Alumni Dance in Charlotte... Tom Casali heartily disgusted with women and baseball... The Snake Broadway silent and seemingly a bit out of place on late ride to Salisbury—what's he gonna do about the house party with two on his hands?... Where was Bruce Powell after the dance doing what?... Toby Chanyers greatly inspired by present from his lady friend’s dad... Dick Vowles noticeably absent, but he was leading a figure—if you know what I mean—at WC... Lovely ladies noticed were Dell Southerland, Charlotte McAyden, Teeney Cooke—who can warble sweetly, Betty Fayssoux, Mary Virginia Buckley, Willa Mae Cooper, and Harriet Donnelly—many more exciting females but too numerous to mention...

Tom “Bachelor” Craye-Masters, Mark Lillard, and Ovid Bell directed other activities for Charlotte socialites the latter half of the night, both being fortified for such, and competent in handling any arising perplexities. Lillard was the more emphatic of the two... Other Phi Delts hanging around included Crooks, Tonnisen, and Boyd who watched the night's events sedately and restrained, with maybe a little touch of envy... Nesbit Elmore and an unidentified guy girded in tails made a long and strange journey to somewhere, also a bit vague.

Off to Chapel Hill with dances with Dorsett, Kiesewetter, Reid, and Brewer and I learn that I’m considered a queer fish and tiny heart's breaking... Poor BAW Ross, with ideas in his head, arrived at the Hill only to find his Oriental lady love—the Jan—had preceded him so of necessity, the plans were cancelled... Shaw Smith mezzanining with pretty gal at Charlotte Hotel... Rea-Tenney’s chewing gum tactics proved successful finally... Boo Walker off on a periodical binge drinking one coca-cola, and two orange slices... Taylor steps off the flier from Spartanburg... Dod Balsley still in Tennessee—they're still outrunning him.

Take It Easy
By Rut Miller

If you are not in a philosophical mood, don't read this column.

YOU TOO? — Did you ever tell a friend, staying in a strange or unfamiliar place, to leave the light on the front porch so you could find the house? Has it ever failed that there were at least two other lights burning on other porches? Didn't you go stealthily sneaking up on the porch and shyly peek in a window in fluttering hopes of finding familiar faces? And weren't you scared to find them all strange—and then didn’t you steal thief-like down the steps, doubting whether or not to stalk another porch? Then after you finally find her (or him), that is if you didn’t lose your nerve and go home or to a telephone in search for information, tell her you walked right up to the right place the very first time without any trouble at all? Well, I have, and often, too!

SELECTED—It matters a lot how we act when we rise. If we sigh a deep sigh when rubbing our eyes, if we grumble and groan and whimper and scowl, and mutter and moan, and bluster and growl, indulge in self-pity because we are we, and wish we were people we couldn't well be—if this is the way we rise in the morning, and waste the first hour in grumbling and scorning, the voyage will be horrid the whole of the day—the first hour’s the rudder and points out the way.

It matters a lot how we act when we rise. If we greet the new day with sunshiny eyes, if we joke and we laugh and whistle and sing, if we speak with a lilt and walk with a spring, indulge in rejoicing because we are we, and happier people there could not well be—if this is the way we rise in the morning, with praise on our lips for its special adorning, the voyage will be pleasant the whole of the day—the first hour’s the rudder and points out the way.

THUMB NAIL SKETCH — He's rather a mystery on the campus, this bleached Semitic, with his briefcase in one hand and the other hand ready to raise in the Nazi salute. A figure of mystery who disappeared from school last year to make a flying trip to Germany, break up a wedding, attend school a year, become married himself and then return to Mecklenburg County to resume his studies and to complete his Master’s thesis... Recently was elected to Phi Beta Kappa. Outstanding in his own way, a highly interesting person to talk to. A leader for freshman rights usually attacking from the balcony. His wife will join him as soon as funds are available.

PARTING SHOT — There were two men, one of whom is very happy, and one of whom is very miserable. The essential difference between them is that one loves the beauty of the world, and the other hates its ugliness.

Photographic Supplies
W. L. VAN NESS CO.
North Tryon—Charlotte, N.C.