WEDNESDAY, OCT. 19, 1938 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Three

Question of the Week

This week The Davidsonian has chosen a topic which is being much discussed at present, a topic upon which there
is little difference of opinion. Six students were asked, “What do you think of the double cut system for attending
Davidson football games off the campus?” All six of them were not in accord with the college's policy, most of
them in very definite terms. The individual answers are below:

Rufus Plonk, Senior: “This practice of imposing double cuts on students for attending Davidson football games played out of town
seems to be objectless and should be done away with, unless its advantages can be shown. Most students would not
use the three cuts allowed to attend football games, as there are many more uses for them. I believe a
close check would reveal that as many cuts are taken on week-ends of the football dances as on a single-cut
week-end. If so, then why shouldn't the same rule apply here? If the members of O. D. K. would present
this question to the college officials, I believe it could be abolished.”

Joe Gammon, Junior: “Why should we be able to attend any other games and get single cuts, but have them
doubled if we go to see our own team play? It seems unfair. The students would not spend all their
cuts going to football games even if the cuts were not doubled. It is known without doubt, that the team
can do better with more support from its students, so why not make it just a little easier for the
team to have better support? I’m against the idea.”

John Hay, Sophomore: “I do not like the double cut system at all. When our football teams play games away
from here, the only real support they have is the band. The boys playing need the cheering much more when
off the campus than here. The boys who would go to the games seldom remain for the week-ends and how
much better it would be if trips were both enjoyable and constructive on the school's behalf. It is not a
very good advertisement for our school to let our teams go about without a following.”

Charlie Hines, Senior: “The system of double cuts on football week-ends may have its good points, but I think they
are overshadowed by the defects of such a set-up. I am aware that the cuts allowed students are supposed to
be used in emergencies, but at least 75 percent of the cuts are taken for pleasure. Under the present setup,
numbers of students may week-end in the vicinity of a Davidson game, and be denied the privilege of seeing the
game. I think the spirit our teams have shown deserves better support than we have given them, and I believe
that this could be achieved with a change in the present ruling.”

Julian Lakey, Junior: “I am definitely against the double cut system. There are several reasons for being against such a
plan. One, and an obvious one, is that the team needs every ounce of possible student support. Another is that
the very fact that we receive double cuts on such occasions creates an undesirable feeling among the students. The restriction
on attending the games seems unnecessary. We receive only a small number of cuts; so to attend a football game
off the campus would prove too much for most of us with single cuts. A single cut system would by
far be the best.”

J. Toddy Latimer, Sophomore: “In my opinion, the idea of double cuts when we have a football game off the
campus has entirely served its purpose, and all that it does now is to weaken the Wildcat spirit. I can
see how it was useful in its time, many years ago, but not today or for the past several years.
It keeps the boys away from certain Davidson games that they desire to attend, and as we have such a
limited number of cuts anyway, I see no need for the rule.”

Varied Food For Chinese Week Celebration

R. Archer Torrey Attends Banquet on Chinese Independence Day

Consuming courses that range from bird’s nest soup through suckling pig, bean curd soup, roast duck, and boiled shrimp to
sweet almond hash, and singing in hearty unison songs that range from the Chinese National Anthem to “A Disket, a
Tasket,” it seems, is just an old Chinese custom. At least it was on Monday, Oct. 10, for a group
of fifteen Chinese supporters, composed of students, missionaries, Chinese children of missionaries, and Chinese business men, who observed the 27th
anniversary of the Chinese Independence Day with a banquet.

Oriental Music

A completely Oriental atmosphere was preserved by the menu, but American influences proved too strong, as shown by their musical
selection. The complete menu, thoroughly Chinese, included also: rice, sweet-sour pork with plenty of spices, and finally, tea. The restaurant
was The Lotus, in Greensboro, and the proprietor, Mr. Wong, ate with his guests to complete the picture.

Discussion Held

There was no formal program, most of the talking being accomplished through exchange of personal opinion. Dr. E. E. Ericson,
of Chapel Hill, led what discussion there was, while R. Archer Torrey of Davidson, was toastmaster, but suddenly developed a
cold which prevented his presiding. He was elected secretary for the group, having been one of the immediate spirits behind
the organization of the banquet. Others present were: C. K. Djang, Bob and Ellen Magill, Lincoln Kan, DeWitt Barnett, Ralph
Fulton, and Frank Turner, all from Chapel Hill, Mrs. Meredith, Lettie C., Mr. P. S. Jung and Mr. Wong from
Greensboro.

Just to settle your curiosity, bird’s nest soup is actually made from a bird’s nest—a type of cliff swallow in
China makes a gelatinous nest, which, when boiled with the American equivalent of hash, results in a delicious and appetizing
dish. Try it some time.

Air Programs Continued

Davidson College again took to the air in the third of the fall series of radio programs over Charlotte's WBT.
The regular announcer on this program was Prof. Thane McDonald. The Symphonic band under the direction of Prof. James Christian
Pfohl offered a varied program of marches, overtures, and closed with the hymn “Come Thou Almighty King.” During a five-minute
interlude, Announcer McDonald presented the latest news from the campus. The program offered by the band included: “O, Davidson” (theme);
“El Capitan,” John Phillip Sousa; “The Scarlet Mask,” overture, Zamerick; news; “La Golondrina,” Seradell; “Amparito Roca,” Spanish march, Tuxidor; and
“Come Thou Almighty King.”

Maybe the fellow who said originally that people are just like sheep meant that somebody shears both regularly.

Pan-Hellenic Dance Sponsors

Miss Miriam Boyd of Warrenton with L. W. Kornegay, Sigma Alpha Epsilon.

Miss Eleanor Newman of Salisbury with John A. Long, Pi Kappa Alpha.

Miss Ann Wiley of Charlotte with Raymond Pittman, Kappa Sigma.

Miss Sybil Searcy of Charlotte with E. H. Steere, Beta Theta.

Miss Kitty Adair of Jacksonville, Fla., with M. H. Lillard, Phi Delta Theta.

Miss Anne Jeanette Rish of Bluefield, W. Va., with Bobby Gish, Pi Kappa Phi.

Prof. H. Fulcher addressed the immediate group.First meeting of the Sigma Pi Sigma, honorary physics fraternity, on Monday evening. His
subject was a review of a group of experiments which he and Prof. O. J. Thies have made here recently.
They were conducted as research for the Coca Cola company concerning the strength of soft drink bottles. The cause for
them, Fulcher said, was a suit which the Charlotte branch of the company had because of a bottle which broke
and caused flying glass to injure a woman standing nearby. In their work along this line, Profs. Fulcher and Thies
made tests on about two thousand bottles. They first found the amount of internal pressures exerted by a group of
beverages including Coca Cola. Afterwards, they tested various kinds of bottles to find the maximum amount of external pressure they
could stand.

As a result of their investigation, the Davidson professors made certain suggestions to the bottling company which should aid them
in their business. At the meeting, Sigma Pi Sigma considered taking in new members. At the next meeting of the
group, the members will probably vote on those eligible for membership, according to Bob Benfield, president.

[Continued on Page Six]

Jarman Shoes for Men
FRIENDLY Shoe Store
137 S. TRYON ST.

Miss Evelyn Drenner of Birmingham with E. T. Lupfert, Phi Gamma Delta. Miss Peggy Dunaway of Charlotte with Dick Taylor,
Kappa Alpha fraternity. Miss Mary Louise Riddick of Scotland Neck with Tom Mullen, Vice-President of the Council. Sponsors for the
Fall Dances to be given in Charlotte this weekend by Panhellenic Council of Davidson College. (Courtesy Charlotte Observer)

Last Day
Daring Expose of the Rackets of The Underworld
“SMASHING THE RACKETS”
with Bruce Cabot, Chester Morris, Rita Johnson

Thurs.-Fri.-Sat.
Rip-Snorting Fun with the Looniest men in history
The Ritz Brothers in
“STRAIGHT, PLACE, OR SHOW”
with Ethel Merman, Dick Brooks, Phyllis Brooks

Monday-Tuesday
Charles Dickens' Immortal Story of Old
“DAVID COPPERFIELD”
with Lionel Barrymore, Lewis Stone, Maureen O'Sullivan, W. C. Fields, Freddie Bartholomew, Basil Rathbone

Wednesday, Oct. 26
ON THE STAGE!
RED NORVO And His Brilliant Swing Band Featuring Singing Swinging MILDRED BAILEY
This is the second in the series of big name attractions to play your Broadway—Watch for others!

BROADWAY

Drive Her to The Dance IN A PUSHIT
M. P. Henderson
Davidson, N. C.
—GULF GAS & OIL—

Any Needs For House or Room
M. H. GOODRUM & CO.

Expert Barber
BEST HAIRCUTS IN TOWN
Davis Barber Shop
DAVIDSON, N. C.

TENNIS — GOLF BALLS By Spaulding
College Pharmacy
Davidson’s “Service Drug Store”
Davidson, N. C.

Faculty Books Are Recorded By Committee
Prof. C. G. Davidson Compiles Bibliography of Professorial Works

Prof. C. G. Davidson during the past week has compiled a bibliography, as yet incomplete, of the outside work that
has been done by Davidson professors. He was selected to serve as secretary of the recently founded committee on Productive
Scholarship at its first meeting last week. Dr. W. L. Porter was made chairman of the group. The committee, which
was named at a recent faculty meeting, is made up of three other professors who will aid the two already
mentioned in this important work. These men are: Professors W. P. Cumming, W. L. Porter, and G. R. Vowles.

The chief function of the committee is to give increased publicity to the work of the professors and in this
way to encourage them to contribute more material for publication. With this end in view, the committee is compiling a
list of the books and scholarly journals that have been written and published by members of the Davidson College faculty.
This list is not yet complete, but among these works reported are several articles which have appeared or are soon
to appear. One of these is “The Winget Manuscripts: Governor John White, the Artist,” by Dr. W. P. Cumming of
the English department. This article substantiates the belief that John White, the governor, and the artist of the same name
who was sent out with the [Continued on Page Six]

Cunningham Speaks At Vesper Service
Winston Salem Minister Chooses For Subject “What Is God Like?”

Dr. J. R. Cunningham, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church in Winston-Salem, was the speaker at last Sunday’s vesper services
in Chambers auditorium. Dr. Cunningham formerly held the position of President of the Presbyterian Theological Seminary in Louisville, Ky.

Text From John
Dr. Cunningham took as the topic of his message the question, “What Is God Like?” His text, found in John
14, answers this question: “He that hath seen me hath seen the Father.” This is the reply which Jesus gives
to Philip's demand, “Lord, show us the Father.” Dr. Cunningham said that people everywhere ask the question: “Who Is God?
What is He like? Is He personal? Does He care anything about me? How can I find Him? How will
I know when I have found Him?” Many think Him a celestial king, seated on a heavenly throne; others, a
grandfatherly person, as in “Green Pastures.” One cult supposes the trees, streams, and nature to be God. Another group say
they find God by doing good works.

Questions Answered
The answer to all these questions, Dr. Cunningham said, is Christ's reply to Philip, “He that hath seen me hath
seen the Father.” In this reply, there is a note of scorn. Had Christ been so long with them and
still Philip didn't know that if he had seen Jesus, he had seen God? Christ is the supreme revealer of
God. By seeing Christ's actions on earth, we can see what God is like. Dr. Cunningham cited four examples from
the Gospel of Christ revealing God through himself. Christ's feeding of the multitudes was simply God feeding hungry people materially
and spiritually. God would feed those who are going hungry. Again, Christ saved a fallen [Continued on Page Six]

MEN! ... Don’t Fail To See The Display of Smart Clothing and Furnishings by Timely and Rockingham
Reversible and Regular Style Topcoats
Bush Coats
Smart Slacks
Suits by Silvertex
Arrow Shirts and Ties
Interwoven Sox
Our College Representative is MR. PAUL MARION
OF CHARLOTTE, N. C.

MISS MINNIE’S PLACE

See Our Exceptional Values in Midnight Blue Tuxedos and Accessories

Wednesday—Oct. 19—
Thursday-Friday—Oct. 20-21—
Saturday—Oct. 22—
FOUR IS A CROWD
HOLD THAT CO-ED
SONS OF THE LEGION

Monday-Tuesday—Oct. 24-25—
THE SISTERS

DAVIDSON THEATRE
Davidson, N. C.
