Page Six, THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, NOV. 16, 1938

Lyon Teaches Cats To “Marx” Up Victory Over Deacons

Faith Lesson Compares Intellectual Knowledge and Faith

Last Sunday morning Dr. C. S. Lyon conducted Sunday School in Phi Hall on the comparison between intellectual knowledge and
Faith. He took his text from the eleventh chapter of Hebrews.

Dr. Lyon stated that in the intellectual atmosphere of college, one is apt to believe only that which can be
proved; this will leave out Religion. He then brought out the point that so much of life is yet uncertain.
Life may be compared with a lighted room surrounded on all sides with darkness. “We know not from whence we
come, we know not from whence we go,” stated Dr. Lyon.

There are three reasons why we believe in certain facts: First, we believe in truths because we make observations; second,
because of the testimony of others; and third, because of the inductive and deductive reasoning powers of the human mind.
The second two reasons are both secondary to the first.

Dr. Lyon then asked the question as to whether it is justifiable to accept knowledge from the inaccurate sources of
the human eye. There are many axioms and transcendental facts, such as matter, time, energy, space, and life, that are
accepted by intellectualists purely on faith. Many scientists think all intellectual knowledge fails based on these sources, but this is
not the case. The very essence of knowledge is that knowledge is a superstructure based on the foundation of Faith.

Since the majority of intellectual knowledge is based on Faith, why should Religion be doubted as it is also based
on Faith? All individuals have the same ability to believe in God as this belief is not dependent on intellectual
knowledge. Faith is the life of man.

The Campus Magician, Shaw Smith, holds his audience of Wildcat backfield men spell-bound as he performs his magic. Frank Harrison,
who finds Groucho Marx pulling a rabbit out of his helmet, predicts that, with the help of Colin, the ’Cats
are sure to “Marx” up a victory over the Deacons on Thanksgiving. Harpo’s admirers are, kneeling, left to right: Bill
Bolin, Tubby Hand, Fred Stair, Bill Davis.

CUP CAPTURED BY PIKAS

The Pi Kappa Phi decoration centered around the “Clipping of the Flying Squadron” and a barber chair with a cadet
supported the central idea.

The Kappa Alpha house based its welcome on Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs. The witch was sincerely offering brother
Rat a bite of the poisoned apple.

The Kappa Sigmas had in their yard the red and black machine which was transforming the VMI team into pieces.
Red and black colors predominated the scene.

The Phi Delta Theta house was changed into a publishing house, which was issuing the Daily Dope. VMI featured the
defeat of Sigma Phi Epsilon had a clothesline posted in their front yard with the “Drying Squadron” hanging by necks,
the tub of Felix, using soap manufactured by McEver & Co. Color effects were added with streamers of school colors.

EU HOLDS INITIATION

Four men were initiated into the Eumenean Literary Society at its regular meeting held last night at seven-fifteen in Eu
Hall. Bob Kellogg presided at the ceremony in the absence of the president, Boo Walker. All of the initiates are
from the Junior class. They include: Julian Lokey, Bob Ramsey, Ed Watkins, and John Withers.

After the initiation ceremony, a discussion on the athletic situation at Davidson occupied the floor.

WRITERS PICK OFFICERS

[Continued from Page One]

The class put up Jack Holland, Erle Austin, and Jack Abernathy for vice-president, and Tom Perrin was added from the
floor. Hector McLean and Andy Dale were nominated by the class for secretary and treasurer, and the committee presented Lawson
Withers, Ed Watson, and Joe Liles.

The Journalism class will meet again this evening at 7:15 in Dr. Sentelle’s classroom to discuss and adopt proposed class
regulations. President Cooper appointed a committee of Rock Deaton, Glover Trent, and Roy Cunningham at the last meeting to draw
up and submit suggestions for the rules.

PATRIOTIC MEDLEY

[Continued from Page Two]

Davidson, and an encore demanded by the enthusiastic audience rounded out the program.

BASKETBALL

[Continued from Page Four]

Expected to start practice after the Thanksgiving Day game with Wake Forest. Five lettermen are returning to the team, and
four of these were Frank Harrison, and Bill.Beaty. Those standing are Archie Steed and Bob McClellan, regulars of last year’s
team.

FRATERNITIES ATTENTION!
We Cut Wood To Your Specified Size
FREE DELIVERY
Get Your Winter Supply Now
DAVIDSON ICE & FUEL CO.

KALISTA HOOD REVIEWS
(Continued from Page Five)
In referring to her life and work on the stage, Miss Hood said, “All the glamour and fun is well
mixed with hard knocks and no sleep. Black coffee is always present, and all-night work is frequently required, especially in
such a company. The hardest part was that of ‘Touchstone’ in ‘As You Like It’. In the play ‘Macbeth’ I
had three different parts; that of a witch, the son of Lady McDuff, and Fleance. And don’t think that it
isn’t hard to wear three costumes at the same time, one on top of the other.” When asked as to
her preference between stage and motion picture work, she stated that the stage had her vote because of the living
audience. “You can always keep one ear to them and tell how your part is going over.”

KAPPA SIGS TAKE GAME
(Continued from Page Four)
The Sig Eps had previously beaten the S. A. E.’s by the score of 6-0. The game was close all
the way, but a pass from John Tice to Casali, who made a very nice running catch of the elusive
wet ball, was the deciding factor. The Sig Eps had three first downs to the S. A. E.’s two. The
Betas and the Pi Kaps engaged in a tight game in which the Pi Kaps finally came out victorious, 2-1.
They played on even terms during the first half, but a touchdown in the waning minutes of play gave the
game to the Pi Kaps. The Pi Kaps made three first downs to the Pikas' one. Two straight wins by
the Pikas proved to be too much for the Pi Kaps to overcome. However, three first downs would have been
a sufficient margin, had the touchdown not been scored. The Pikas avenged this defeat, though, later by beating the K.
A.’s, 6-0, to break into the winning column. A pass to Jack Abels was the margin of victory.

PRE-MED FRAT
(Continued from Page Three)
Preceding this initiation meeting, two rush meetings were held, which were open to all pre-med students. At the first of
these meetings, papers were presented by G. R. Gish, W. H. Boyce, R. D. Doty, and E. A. Erwin, Jr.
The second meeting was presented as an open forum on the Socialization of Medicine, led by Dr. Scott Lyon, faculty
advisor, and M. E. Morrow, Jr., President. Both meetings proved entertaining and educational, and were highly successful in arousing interest
in our local pre-medical chapter. After the initiation, Dr. Knight of the Davidson Chemistry Department addressed the group on “Organic
Drugs of a Hypnotic Nature.” He not only stressed these drugs’ historic development, but explained their organic structure and discussed
the theories of their physiological and psychological actions on the human body.

AMONG THE GREEKS
(Continued from Page Three)
Dr. and Mrs. H. J. Bolin, Mr. and Mrs. Stair, Mrs. Ed Brewer, Mrs. John Throop, and Mr. and Mrs.
W. B. Pharr. Alumni down for the weekend were Harold and Harding Sugg, John Foster, Gene Vogler, Lawrence Reid, John
Siewers, J. B. Goslen, Don Chipman, D. G. Wilson, John Creech, and Bob Stowe.

S. A. E.
Among guests at the house over the weekend were: Ed Armfield, Henry Mills, Jr., Enid Bowers, Tom Marchant, Fred Bahnson,
Jr., Mr. and Mrs. Henry Mills Sr., Mr. and Mrs. Fred Bahnson and son, Alex, Dr. and Mrs. J. H.
McDuffie and daughters, Lucille, Sara, and Mary, and Dr. and Mrs. Allen McLean and daughter. Young ladies present for the
weekend were: The Misses Peggy Beatty, Lib Lucas, Virginia Lee, Dot Wyatt, Martha Alexander, Priscilla Lambeth, Aileen Long, Rita Clary,
Dutty Jones, Geoffrey Jordan, and Betty Shull. The Pledge brothers, Southgate Jones and Bill Sprunt, entertained at a party at
the house Saturday night.

Phi Delta Theta
Feature of the Homecoming weekend was a feed at the house after the football game on Saturday. Many old grads
were back, among them “Jelly” McClelland and Jack Branch. Whit Reynolds’ parents visited the chapter during the weekend. Rea Tenney
and Warren Ludlam were off to Concord after the ball game, while Harper Beall went to Lenoir and Bob William
to Statesville. Pledge LeGrand went home after the game and Hunter, McGeachey, and Beaty visited Brother Arthur Moore at his
home in Rock Hill. Dick Kenyon, Pat Rudolph, and George Lilly had a small party in Charlotte Saturday night.

Tomorrow's unfinished work is easy—provided you do today’s today.

Copyright 1936, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.

...is the skillful blend that can’t be copied
Skillful is the word that best describes Chesterfield’s can’t-be-copied blend. It is the RIGHT COMBINATION of mild ripe home-grown and
aromatic Turkish... the world’s best cigarette tobaccos... that makes Chesterfield different from all other cigarettes. And it’s the skillful blending
of these tobaccos with each other... for flavor, for aroma, for mildness and for taste, that has made Chesterfield the
cigarette in which millions of smokers find a new pleasure in smoking.

Chesterfield ... the blend that can’t be copied ... a HAPPY COMBINATION of the world’s best cigarette tobaccos.
