Page Six THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, APRIL 13, 1938

Your Film Report Card By HENRY B. BAKER

The quality of each picture is determined by the number of stars—more stars mean a better picture.

Thursday, April 14
“OF HUMAN HEARTS”—James Stewart, Ann Rutherford, and Walter Huston. The life of a young man is traced from early boyhood,
through his life at college, and finally to the time when he receives his medical commission in the Union Army
at the time of the Civil War.

Saturday, April 16
“LOVE ON A BUDGET”—A search through all available movie magazines and theater advertising produced practically nothing in regard to this
picture.

Monday, April 18
“SWING YOUR LADY”—Humphrey Bogart, Frank McHugh, Louise Fazenda, and Nat Pendleton. Stuff thrown together to make something like a vaudeville.
There are several good laughs that the East cannot afford to miss.

Tuesday, April 19
“A SLIGHT CASE OF MURDER”—Edward G. Robinson, Jane Bryan, Allen Jenkins, and Ruth Donnelly. This sounds like a good juicy
mystery; instead, it’s a burlesque on life in gangland. Edward G. Robinson plays the part of a beer baron of
dry days who tries to go straight after the repeal of the law.

AMONG THE GREEKS (Continued from Page 3)
Fred Harbin and Bill Rader went to Maryville for the track meet. Lake Mullen enjoyed the night in Greenville, N.C.
Brother Hamilton and Lewis traveled to Rock Hill on Saturday. Brother Lyons is spending part-time in Charlotte now. Visitors over
the weekend: Nancy Carter, Dot Wright, Walker Bell, Harriet Osborne, Betty Fayssoux, Evelyn McCarty, Teeny Cloyd, Margaret Galloway, Edith Wyatt,
Charlotte Ruffner, Scrappy McCarty, and Val Brandon.

ETA SIGMA PHI (Continued from Page 3)
The national magazine of Eta Sigma Phi. The next meeting of this group will be at the home of Dr.
C. R. Harding.

WILDCAT TRACKSTERS (Continued from Page 4)
The last event had been run. North Carolina led the scoring with firsts in the 100 and 220 and third
in the broad jump. Boo Walker followed closely with 7 2-3 points for the Wildcats.

COLIN, MAGICIAN (Continued from Page 3)
Don Davidson all during the performance. Colin regretted that, due to unforeseen complications, he was unable to present his largest
and best trick because of lack of time.

PHOTOGRAPHIC (Continued from Page 1)
Seventh, Tom Magill; eighth, Parker; ninth, Magill; tenth, Walter Kunz. In the Song Title contest, Kunz was first—winning some films;
W. E. Cobb second—an Agfa Ansco Box Camera; third, Duck Pharr—a pass to the Davidson Theater. W. E. Cobb took
first in the DeLuxe Ice Cream contest. Dave McLean came through in two weeks; John Kline was eleventh.

Charming Singer on Way Up—Says Colin By C. SHAW SMITH
Frances Colwell, a charming little singer with a band destined to be one of the outstanding in the country, namely
Dean Hudson and His Florida Clubmen, who held forth at Davidson's last swing, gave us this compliment: That there are
more gentlemen in the group as a whole at Davidson than at any other place we've been. And the Davidsonian
hastens to swing the compliment right back at Dean and Frances and the boys. Without a doubt, the opinion of
the dancing portion of the student body voted this set the best yet, chiefly on account of Dean's music.

Engagements
This band is definitely going places. Note some of their next engagements: Harvard, Vassar, M.I.T., and Wellesley. Then May 7th,
at one of the most outstanding dances in New England, The Green Key Dance at Dartmouth, Hanover, N.H. The Clubmen
engage in a battle of music with Tommy Dorsey. After this, they go to the Wm. Penn Hotel with four
nights weekly over N.B.C.

Frances Colwell
Her real name, Frances Colwell, and she hails from Palmetto, Fla. Long ago she began playing the piano and later
with her two sisters formed a trio for radio work. Although she’s been with the Clubmen three years, she doesn't
like road work at all with the exception of college weekends.

Love Ideas
When interviewed, there was a crowd of admirers standing about who greatly enjoyed the love questions put to her. Miss
Colwell said she thinks everyone they've been in love with someday she'll wake up and find that she has seen
her ideal. (This was with Joe Kellam.) Frances keeps a scrapbook on which she works before her date man. When
she isn’t singing, she lists her favorites as orchestra: Tommy Dorsey, favorite songstress: Frances Langford. Movie star: Fred MacMurray. Song:
“I Surrender Dear.” Her greatest ambition is to do screen work. It is the opinion of Davidson dancers that whatever
they want, they'll get. More information could not be obtained, for the Davidson sheiks were on hand to whisk away
that which we all wanted to know about the fascinating Frances Colwell.

FROSH BEATEN
In matches with High Point High School, Carolina freshmen, Duke freshmen, and probably Raleigh High School.Davidson Compliments

Miss Frances Colwell's lovely contralto voice will be remembered by many Davidson students after her rich renditions of torrid smooth
fox trots and swing tunes during the two-day dance set just completed here. Besides singing alone, Miss Colwell formed a
trio with two other members of Dean Hudson's band and sang their glee club numbers with the orchestra.

Society To Be Host To Girls

The Grace Ramsey Literary Society of Mitchell College will visit the Davidson campus on April 27. A blanket invitation issued
by the Eumenean Literary Society has been accepted. Plans are being perfected for a humorous entertainment, consisting of a debate,
several extemporaneous talks, and other speeches. Dave Woodward will imitate a former Eumenean member, Woodrow Wilson. Refreshments will be served
by the Eumenean Society during the evening.

RUBINOFF

(Continued from Page 5)

"Fine," replied Rubinoff, "the audience was very appreciative." Unable to think of more questions, I viewed the violin that is
insured for $100,000 with Lloyd's of London and headed for the 11:15 bus.

It was announced that the University of Pittsburgh was granted a charter by Sigma Pi Sigma national office. The installation
of the new chapter took place April 8.

ERNEST ELLISON, Inc.
ERNEST ELLISON
Fire, Casualty and Marine Insurance
Charlotte, N. C.
113-115 East Fourth St.
ROBT. E. ELLISON

Get Your Easter Decorations At the
SOUTHERN 5¢ & 10¢ Store
DRY GOODS GROCERIES RADIO SUPPLIES HARDWARE
M.H. Coedvani Co.
Zenith & RCA Radios

Newton Smith Reviews Book

Book Review of "Crime and Punishment" Made At Literary Meeting

A book review of "Crime and Punishment," an outstanding work of the famous Russian author, Tolstoy, by Newton Smith, featured
the program of the meeting of the Philanthropic Literary Society at its last meeting. Smith discussed chiefly the philosophic and
moral ideas and problems presented by the profound Russian writer. Besides the review, there were two extemporaneous speeches made by
members of the society. Bob Miller aired some of his high school love affairs, while Newton Smith told a Scotch
joke. Oscar Joyner was in charge of the arrangements.

In the absence of the president, Bill Broadway, Vice-President Rod Williams presided over the meeting. The society held open house
in honor of the Queens-Chicora girls who visited the Davidson campus yesterday. The society is making plans for a hayride
sometime in the future.

A. S. BROWN
General Merchandise, Paragon Dress Shirts, Endicott Army Shoes
Telephone No. 7

MILITARISTS

(Continued from Page 3)

For this parade on the athletic field, Ed Cloyd was the band and marched up and down blowing his brass
bugle. Observers considered this the most humorous of the ceremonies. The formal initiation ceremony took place at sunrise Wednesday morning
on the golf course. By this time, one can easily imagine that all new members were very sleepy.

PIKA TEAM

(Continued from Page 4)

"Rusty" Edmundson collected two of the three Davidson hits as well as catching an excellent game. Jim Hogg, although hindered
by a "charley-horse," got the other hit.

SCIENCE FILMS

(Continued from Page Three)

The following films will be presented: "Nickel," "Monel Metal," and "This Changing World." Although these are the only films definitely
scheduled for a showing now, several more will be brought here before school is out.

GREENSBORO HIGH

(Continued from Page 4)

Greensboro High was strong in its fielding during most of the game, but most of the errors were made on
hard-hit balls that were difficult to handle.

Records—Victor, Brunswick, Decca, Bluebird—35¢ & 75¢ Each
Any Record Not in Stock Can Be Quickly Secured
PARKER-GARDNER CO.
PHONE 8257
Since 1898
Charlotte, N. C.

EASTER

...FROM...
WHITE DRUG CO.
CANDY

BAND TO GIVE

(Continued from Page 1)

The band will perform "Procession," Hosmer; "Florentiner March," Fucik; and "Oh, Davidson."

LOOK What’s Coming

On the Stage...IN PERSON
JOAN BROOKS
That lovely little darling of Stage, Screen, and Radio
AND HER MODERN MINSTRELS IN SWING
...with...
JOLLY COBURN'S RAINBOW ROOM ORCH.
Playing music as you have never heard played before.
The Biggest—Best, and Most Entertaining Stage Show of the Year

OPENING WITH
Big Midnite Show SUN. NITE
And 4 Shows Monday

DAVIDSON THEATRE

Wednesday, April 13—OVER THE WALL
Thursday, April 14—IN THE FACE OF WALLACE BEERY
Friday, April 15—OF HUMAN HEARTS
Saturday, April 16—CERTIFIED LOVE ON A BUDGET
Monday, April 18—SWING YOUR LADY
Tuesday, April 19—A SLIGHT CASE OF MURDER
Wednesday, April 20—ADVENTURES OF TOM SAWYER

Copyright 1938, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.

Lay out for more pleasure
Step right up and ask for Chesterfields... they'll give you more pleasure than any cigarette you ever smoked
Chesterfield
the PLEASURE cigarette
