CAMPUS LEADERS BID BY ODK

ALENDA LUX

Che Davbidsonian — UB! ORTA

N.C.C.P.A. CONVENES IN CHARLOTTE

LIBERTAS

VOL. XXV DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., WEDNESDAY, MAY 4, 1938 No. 32

Convention To Be Held May 5 For Association

N.C.C.P.A. Will Hold Annual Spring Convention in Charlotte, May 5-7

Delegates from the three Davidson publications will attend the annual spring convention of the North Carolina Collegiate Press Association in Charlotte, Thursday, Friday, and Saturday, May 5-7. Several prominent writers and publishers will attend the convention. D. Hiden Ramsey, editor of the Asheville Citizen-Times, will be the chief speaker at the banquet. The collegians will hear: Jake Wade, editor of The Charlotte Observer; Cameron Shipp, of the Charlotte News; Raymond Thompson, of the Lassiter Press; Harris Keck, of the Observer Printing House; and many others. The Carolina Book Fair will be in session in Charlotte at the same time, and many of the country’s leading writers are expected in Charlotte for the event.

The official delegates from Davidson will be Dick Vowles, who is treasurer of the association, and Charlie Moore from the Davidsonian, Sam Ryburn and Henry Harkey from the Magazine, Jim Dorsett and Wally Tonissen from the Annual. In addition to the official delegates from Davidson—the newly elected editors and appointed business managers will attend the convention. They are Bill Marquess, John Latimer, Cage Brewer, Mark Lillard, Rut Miller, and Don Davidson. Several men will attend of their own accord. The eighteen or twenty colleges will be expected to register early Thursday afternoon, May 6. On Friday, girls from Queens-Chicora college will entertain the delegates at a luncheon. Friday night there will be a banquet at which the awards for the year's best publications will be made. New officers for the press association will be elected on Saturday at the business meeting. Various committees are slated to be appointed Friday morning. Billy Knauff and his orchestra have been obtained to furnish music for a banquet and a dance which will follow in the Hotel Charlotte afterwards. The dance will close the convention at which a registration of more than one hundred boys and girls is expected.

Business Club Hears Ovens and Vocational Guidance Talk Will Be Heard

David Ovens, president of the National Retailers Association and general manager of Ivey’s in Charlotte, will speak tonight at 7:30 in the Phi Hall to the Commerce Club and other students interested in business as the fourth in the series of vocational guidance speakers sponsored by the Y. M. C. A. Mr. Ovens is recognized as one of the best business men of this section and he is also known for his ability as a speaker. The National Retailers Association, of which he is president, is a national organization and is the largest group of its kind. Mr. Ovens has been a frequent visitor at Davidson, and is well known by many students. He is to speak tonight at the regular weekly meeting of the Commerce Club on business as a vocation. The entire student body is invited to attend. Mr. Ovens is the fourth of the Y. M. C. A. vocational guidance speakers. The other three men who lectured are: Dr. Ben Lacy, president of the Union Theological Seminary; Dr. W. N. McNeider, of the University of North Carolina; and Mr. Howard Arbuckle, a prominent young lawyer of Charlotte. Each of these men spoke on that vocation which they have entered. At the meeting of the Commerce (Continued on Page 2)

Leaders of Press Group

Three Seniors and Six Juniors Extended Bids By Omicron Delta Kappa

Head Football Coach Gene McEver Also Honored By Leadership Frat

Editor-in-Chief

The Delta circle of Omicron Delta Kappa, tapped his gavel ten times at the annual spring pledging exercises of the honorary leadership fraternity held during the chapel hour this morning. Thus one member of the coaching staff, three members of the senior class, and six men from the rising senior class were inducted into the society.

Receive Bids

Those receiving bids during the exercise were Head Football Coach Gene McEver, Bobby Arrowsmith, Fred Dennis, and Sam Ryburn of the senior class; Warren Gaw, Bob McClellan, Bill Marquess, Sam Newell, Sherrard Rice, and Fred Stair of the class of 1939. Wade Barrow presided over the exercises, Watson Street conducted the devotional service, and the address was delivered by Professor John E. Williams, head of the Department of Business Administration at Davidson. Bobby Arrowsmith has just finished a term as president of the Pan-Hellenic Council, was a senior football manager and president of the Phi Gamma Delta fraternity of which he is a member. Fred Dennis during the past year has been president of the Athletic Association. He was a mainstay of the football team and is a member of Kappa Alpha social fraternity. Sam Ryburn has held the position of junior cheer leader and is a member of Sigma Upsilon, Alpha Psi Omega, and Red and Black Masquers. Warren Gaw, the newly elected freshman adviser and president of Kappa Sigma social fraternity, was secretary-treasurer of the student body and vice president of the Y. M. C. A.

Edited Scripts 'n Pranks

“Rut” Miller of Johnston City, Tenn., was elected to the Editorship of the College Magazine for the coming year 1938-39. He belongs to Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity and is an active member of Sigma Upsilon. “Rut” is a native of Johnson City, Tenn., and he began his work in the field of journalism while in high school in that city. He has been active in magazine work, and for the last year he has been the author of “Take It Easy,” one of the most popular columns in the Davidsonian. He has been outstanding in sports both for his class and the college. He is a member of Sigma Upsilon and is standing well scholastically in his class.

After the third ballot Dick Taylor was elected varsity cheer leader for the coming year with a 58 vote majority over Bill Boyd, the final count was 208 to 150. The four men who have been junior cheerleaders were automatically nominated for this office. The candidates were Nesbit Elmore, Bobby Gish, Boyd, and Taylor.

Cups Awarded

New Officers Are Installed

In the recent student body elections “Rut” Miller was elected Editor-in-Chief of the Scripts 'n Pranks for the year 1938-39. This was an unusually close election, “Rut” Miller winning over Locke White by a margin of only 20 votes. It had to be run to three ballots with Gene Liipfert being eliminated in the second round. “Rut,” whose real name is Walter Rutledge Miller, is well qualified for this responsible position, since he has worked on the staff for three years, and was a managing editor this past year. Not only has he been active in magazine work, but for the last year he has been the author of “Take It Easy,” one of the most popular columns in the Davidsonian. He has been outstanding in sports both for his class and the college. He is a member of Sigma Upsilon and is standing well scholastically in his class. “Rut” is a native of Johnson City, Tenn., and he began his work in the field of journalism while in high school in that city.

John Latimer, Mark Lillard, and Don Davidson were recently selected by the Publications Board as business managers for the Davidsonian, Quips and Cranks, and Scripts 'n Pranks. Latimer, from Washington, D.C., is a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity, junior baseball manager, and the past advertising manager of Quips and Cranks. Lillard, and Davidson were appointed by the Publications Board as business managers for the Davidsonian, Quips and Cranks, and Scripts 'n Pranks a few weeks ago.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Of the student body, results of the first ballot last week showed Gish in the lead with 110 votes to 104 polled by Taylor and 88 by Boyd. After the second ballot, Boyd had taken over the lead with 129 votes to 119 for Taylor, and 107 for Gish. Taylor is a member of Kappa Alpha social fraternity. He succeeds Elmore Holt of Greensboro.

In the near future, Taylor will issue a call for all sophomores who wish to try out for the post of junior cheerleaders. These men will be trained this spring and next fall the student body will select the cheerleaders. 

Robert Benfield Heads Sigma Pi Sigma

Robert Benfield of Sigma Pi Sigma was elected president of the student government representative for next year. He was on the golf team, a member of Phi Delta Theta, Pan-Hellenic councilman for next year, and was on the sophomore dance committee last year.

Competitive Drill Office Monday

Bill Miller, Andy Durner, Sam Hemphill, and Terrell Porter received the highest rating in the annual R.O.T.C. competitive drill April 27. Monday morning at the regular chapel service, the following, the most important of the newly elected student body officers, were installed by their predecessors: Haywood Hill, Sherrard Rice, and Wade Barrow. 

Two departments have been added to the cabinet by Rice. These new sections are “Colored Work” to be supervised by McLean, and Fireside Forums under the direction of Webb. Work among the Davidson colored boys has been going on this year under the direction of McLean. A colored Sunday School is being held and work is being done among the colored boys. Fireside Forums is an old division of “Y” work which is being revived next year.

Tom Magill, a member of Pi Kappa Phi social fraternity, was appointed from a group consisting of Paul Stone, William Howell, Oscar Joyner, and Tom Casali.

T. E. “Boo” Walker, editor-in-chief of the 1938-39 Wildcat Handbook, has announced the appointment of the following to his staff: Dave Woodward, business manager; and Tom Guion, Warren Ludlam, Bob Ramsey, and David Colvin, managing editors. Woodward is a member of the Student Volunteer group, Ministerial Band, Eumenean Literary Society, and teacher of one of the Sunday School Classes off the campus. He succeeds Cage Brewer as business manager.

Several changes over this year's Handbook, edited by Hector McGeachy, will be made. The local R.O.T.C. unit will be recognized, as will also the work of the Physical Education department. In the section devoted to athletics, it is planned to have each coach say several words about his particular sport. The freshman adviser will be given more space, and the Court of Control will be more pleasingly presented to the new students.

If the 1938-39 Handbook is financially successful, Walker stated, the Handbook for the year after next will probably be combined with a student directory, which will contain a list of the boys by halls, with their home addresses and other bits of information. The book will be edited before examinations, and will go to press sometime in August. It will be sent to all incoming freshmen, and will be available to all upperclassmen at the same time.

The election of the Publications Board will be held in the very near future. This board, which is now composed of Dick Vowles, Sam Ryburn, and Jim Dorsett, student members, and Mr. F. L. Jackson and Prof. Fleagle, faculty members, selects the business managers of the three publications. This body is elected by the students from the editors and business managers of the Davidsonian, Quips ’n Cranks, and Scripts ’n Pranks. The board elects its own president, who is Dick Vowles. This is a very important organization, for it directs the policies of the three publications.

At the last meeting of the Beaver Club, Charlie Akers was elected president, “Buck” Powell vice-president, and Bob Wood secretary and treasurer of the group for the 1938-39 session. These three boys are all from North Carolina: Charlie Akers from Charlotte, “Buck” from Whiteville, and Bob from Davidson. The president, Akers, is a member of the Pi Kappa Alpha social fraternity, and plays in the R.O.T.C. band. He made his numeral in freshman track last year, and has worked on the annual for the past two years. Buck Powell has been active in football, taking part in his freshman and sophomore years. He is an SAE and has taken part in intramural sports. Bob Wood is a home town boy who made his numeral in basketball and tennis. He is a member of the rising junior class, and of the SAE social fraternity. These officers will soon be installed and take over their offices in order to make definite plans about the entertainment of visitors on our campus.

Drexel Institute officials have started a move to nationalize fraternities at that institution. The club is making plans to increase the work and its efficiency.

---

This cleaned text maintains the original meaning and punctuation as requested.