We. Perry Sloan. Wesley Coghia. Page Two

The Davidsonian
Founded By the Class of 1915

1937 Member 1938
Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 Madison Ave. New York, N.Y.
Chicago - Boston - Los Angeles - San Francisco

BILL MARQUESS Editor
CHARLES MOORE Associate Editor
WESLEY COCHRAN Associate Editor
PERRY SLOAN Movie Editor
DINK STALEY Photographer

BUSINESS STAFF
COLLECTION MANAGER
ADVERTISING MANAGER
ASST. ADVERTISING MANAGER
CIRCULATION MANAGER
ASST. CIRCULATION MANAGER
BUSINESS MANAGER

Honor System...
Last week there appeared in The Davidsonian an editorial by the President of our Student Body concerning the Honor System.
Some have scoffed at that editorial, many glanced at it indifferently, few have heeded it. In the past year one
malpractice in particular has grown rapidly at Davidson. We refer to answering roll call at chapel for an absent friend.

My Little Girl...
This morning, my daughter, who is seven years old, started to school as usual. She wore a dark blue dress
with a white collar. She had on black shoes and wore blue gloves. Her cocker-spaniel, whose name is “Coot,” sat
on the front porch and whined his canine belief in the folly of education as she waved “good-bye” and started
off to the halls of learning.

Tonight we talked about school. She told me about the girl who sits in front of her—the girl with yellow
curls—and the boy across the aisle who makes funny faces. She told me about her teacher, who has eyes in
the back of her head—and about the trees in the school yard—and about the big girl who doesn’t believe in
Santa Claus. We talked about a lot of things—tremendously vital, unimportant things; and then we studied spelling, reading, arithmetic—and then
to bed.

She’s back there now—back in the nursery sound asleep, with “Princess Elizabeth” (that’s a doll) cuddled in her right arm.
You guys wouldn’t hurt her, would you? You see, I’m her daddy. When her doll is broken or her finger
is cut, or her head gets bumped, I can fix it—but when she starts to school, when she walks across
the street, then she’s in your hands. She’s a nice kid. She can run like a deer and darts about
like a chipmunk. She likes to ride horses and swim and hike with me on Sunday afternoons. But I can’t
be with her all the time—I have to work to pay for her clothes and her education. So please help
me look out for her. Please drive carefully, please drive slowly past the schools and intersections—and please remember that children
run out from behind parked cars. Please deliver my little girl safely.

One of the unequivocal blessings of a real college education is that it spurs the mind to sublime and enduring
discontent with any particular stage of achievement and inspires men, contemptuous of the advancing years, to strive for ever wider
vision, for continued victories over new territory. James Rowland Angell, former Yale president, gives us the real blessing of education.

Senior Slants
Ask any Davidson man what he would like to see changed with regard to the way this college is run,
and he will talk as long as you will listen. On some, perhaps most, of his points, of course, he
speaks from inadequate information, and so is wrong. But many of the suggestions he makes might well be accepted—though the
chances that they will are slight, because all he does is talk. The airing of opinions is a good thing,
and many mistaken actions have been avoided because their flaws were uncovered through discussion. But when the thinking man stops
there, his ideas usually stop with him.

A chief bone of contention among the students is the strictness of Sunday regulations, and a large percentage of the
men in school (the writer is no exception) convince themselves and each other almost weekly that something ought to be
done about it. But nothing ever is. Perhaps one reason for this is that we don’t realize ourselves how much
right we have on our side. The wholesale desertion of the campus on Sunday afternoon is not only dangerous to
the students who leave to travel crowded highways, but often results in more flagrant violations of the orthodox view of
Sabbath observance than are ever perpetrated on the campus. Of course, not all of this would be avoided by permitting
tennis and similar recreation here, but it would make a great deal of difference. The chief argument against a more
reasonable Sunday is that it just wouldn’t look right at a church school. That seems to me to show little
regard for the students who make the school and far too much for those who sit on the outside to
pick flaws in its operation.

There are members of the student body who will disagree with this; but as there would be no compulsion to
utilize greater liberty if it were granted, they would be perfectly free to go on as they have gone. If
this appeals to you who will be here next year, it may be within your reach, if you will stand
up and REACH for it. But if you sit calmly in your “bull sessions” and discuss it, our grandchildren, like
us, must have to go to Charlotte for a pleasant, healthful Sunday.

—EUC FANT.

“There is not room in tomorrow’s America for 745 colleges and universities of the standard American brands, comprised today chiefly
of liberal arts, agricultural and technical institutions. The liberal arts college, far in the majority today, will continue to have
its place in education, but not...

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Campus in Cartoon

VILE STUDENTS CALLER THE MRS. SUE LEE GUNTER

1000 DANCES NEVER DANCED AT ONE OF THEM!

DIRECTOR AND ASST. DEAN OF WOMEN AT THE UNIVERSITY OF ALABAMA SHE ALSO CHAPERONED ALL MAJOR DANCES FOR THE LAST
17 YEARS.

PORTLAND HAS SENT 35 BALL PLAYERS TO THE BIG LEAGUES!

From Campus to Campus
By Associated Collegiate Press

“Cagehorse” basketball, as played on college and university courts during the past season, will be slowed up when the hoopsters
resume play next winter. At its meeting here last week, the National Association of Basketball Coaches applied the brake to
the game: they increased the number of time-out periods to five and provided for optional four ten-minute quarters instead of
the usual twenty-minute halves. The group also approved the use of a four-foot instead of a two-foot out-of-bounds margin behind
backboards and barred the making of substitutions after a goal.

The student body of Mercer University has passed an amendment to the student constitution which makes beating and detrimental hazing
a punishable offense. The amendment became effective on the day of its adoption, and any future harmful hazing will be
punished by the student council as a major offense. President Spright Dowell commended the move, stating that the new amendment
places the university in a position of distinction and raises the admiration of many leading persons.

The odd antics of a pair of Washington and Jefferson College students recently brought the eyes of the nation to
rest on this 145-year-old school. The students phoned the Czechoslovakian embassy in Washington late one night and offered the services
of the “Thomas Jefferson Brigade” to the Czechs for the purpose of “repelling the invasion of the Huns.” They claimed
to have raised 200 men.

Mount Holyoke College seniors are helping their instructors write the examination questions they will answer in their comprehensive quizzes this
spring.

Aid for exiled Austrian scholars will be provided here by the University in Exile, or New School for Social Research,
which was founded to provide a haven for those scholars evicted from Germany at the beginning of the Hitler regime.
Dr. Alvin S. Johnson stated here that it might soon be necessary to offer this service to Austrians, increased re...men
and OU horses: Needless to say, it started as an experiment. The students offered suggested questions for the examinations, and
the instructors have already okayed 12 of them for inclusion in the test. The students have already received the list
of questions and are now preparing their comprehensive answers to three of those submitted. The new system is used for
history and political science majors. Resources will have to be sought to maintain an enlarged university.

Members of Chi Omicron Delta, a Davis and Elkins College local fraternity, can sympathize with the Alpha Delta Phis of
the University of Washington, who recently were forced to hold open house because the front door of their fraternity house
was stolen, for the same thing happened to them over the weekend. It all happened during the fraternity’s second semester
“Hell Week” when the actives were busy initiating a group of nineteen pledges. The recently constructed house, not yet ready
for occupation, was the mecca for neophytes returning from midnight assignments. After leaving the house at 2:30 Saturday morning, the
members returned early the same day to start the final initiation for the pledges. When they reached the house, the
front door, hung the day before, was missing. An investigation disclosed that admittance had been obtained by forcing a window
after which the door was removed from the hinges and carried away.

AFTER - EASTER SPECIALS
Henri-Lazzair Wave
Frederics Modette Machineless
DOLLEE BEAUTEE SALON
Davidson, N. C.

As I stood in silent meditation over a basket of worm-stricken apples or apple-stricken worms (whichever seems more applicable) in
the rat-run operated by Messrs. Crooks and Reid, I felt a light touch upon my shoulder. Upon peering around, I
discovered a bass fiddle emerged from behind the towering viol, and I recognized my friend, C. H. King, who plays
nightly at the College Inn. Incidentally, Howard writes for the late brainchild of Dick Vowles, which is now the property
and problem of Master Masquess. To make a long story short, Howard is off on a tangent to Salisbury, and
I am still standing in front of the basket of worms (the apples have all disappeared) with a stubby pencil
in my clenched fist, with orders from King to do or die. So with those words ringing in his ears,
the heir to the Greene misfortune sets out to do the well-nigh impossible—pinch hit for black sheep King and his
illustrious roommate, the Wheelbarrow.

As the voracious worms are turning their attention to the box and each other, a sleek, black, deep-breathing car of
expensive make rolls up, and numerous slick young men pour out of their respective dorms and leap into the chariot.
It breathes fire, sucks wind, and is gone. Whither they are bound, I know not, nor can guess, but go
they did with squeaks and other little cries of glee. But those who watched the departure in envy, keep this
in mind: anticipation is always better than realization, and contrary to what Dr. Donald Stewart said last eventide, there is
a tomorrow. While Dr. Stewart’s efforts are still fresh in my mind, I would like to express my liking for
his style and know that many others feel the same as I do. Trust all present listened well.

The worms have settled down for the night, so I wend my weary way down the dark corridor of East,
through the maze of broken glass. Finally, after just missing several Coke bottles hurled at random, I am safely ensconced
in my nest. I feel somewhat like William the Bard must have felt when he exclaimed, “What fools these mortals
be!”

My mind is groping rather vainly, it seems, for some recent escapades of those social moths of Davidson who flit
about the bright lights of the cities and hamlets. A few of the latest to try their wings are: Highpockets
Crooks, Harry Lee Clark, and Wesley Coghill (the man who nearly uprooted the student store with his booming voice one
gray dawn some weeks ago) took off Friday night for Charlotte City and one of the better warm spots. Many
of the Beta boys and Fred of the House of Kaperonis attended, along with various other social butterflies. Saturday night,
Slithering Sam Cothran left for parts unknown. Rumor has it that the young man in question was thinking of organizing
a polar expedition as Samuel carried his ever-present blanket. Greasy Gus says it’s his Indian blood coming out. Fox Tonnisen
poked his red beady eyes out of his hole at 4 A.M. Monday morning, leapt into his rags, grabbed his
money bags, and was off on affairs of state—strange business at 4 o'clock in the morning. Heard Frank Harrison and
Ed Glenn being paged, but after five minutes of screaming, their leather-lunged friend wisely decided that the wandering boys had
strayed to greener fields.

Salisbury Dance Monday Night—with approximately thirty Davidson men, acting the part of weekend guests. Harrison, Dorset, Wright, and Craver acted
as hosts for the crowd. Horton, Lyons, Plonk, Thompson, and Gibson squired the crew. A merry and profitable time was
had by all. Thanks, Howard, for this chance to expound. I bet Miss Stough goes for this artist stuff. At
any rate, I certainly hope so.

OUR HERO—Catawba has a professor that sounds like the answer to a student’s dream. He has his own ideas about
sleeping in class. That is, he doesn't mind. His only requirement is that the students don’t snore, and he in
turn has respect for their slumber in the fact that he always talks low so as not to disturb the
sleeping students. He even has a special section in the back of the room for students who like to sleep
with lots of fresh air around them. For these, he opens the windows. The only drawback is he expects them
to pass.

QUEENS—It is late to speak of Queens’ Day, but as someone once said, “better late than never.” One of the
girls turned to her companion and said, “Gee, it feels funny to be walking with a boy.” Another remarked after
we had beat Lenoir Rhyne: “When do we tear down the goal posts?” Saw several couples (at different times) sitting
on the kissing bench and doing nothing whatsoever except talking. Understand the press box in the stadium is not named
such in vain. It would have been interesting to have heard what the girls had to say about us after
they got back to school. Whew, my ears!

PROVERB—Lin Yutang once said to somebody somewhere: All women’s dresses, in every age and country, are merely variations on the
eternal struggle between the admitted desire to dress and the unadmitted desire to undress. (They say he was a smart
man).

RIDDLE—This is encroaching on the King’s premises, but it was too good to leave out, so here goes. What, young
swain, a Davidson Gentleman, was recently discovered on the second floor of the library in one of the small reading
rooms ardently courting an equally well-known local gal?

MESSINGS—As the procession (Continued on Page 6)

WANTED: A few select college men for summer work in various localities. Free course in salesmanship, healthy outside work, remuneration
satisfactory. For particulars, write FULLER BRUSH CO., Greensboro, N.C.

ROLLS DEVELOPED
Any size roll kodak film developed, eight never-fade Velox prints for only 25¢. Low prices on enlarging. Handy mail order
service. Valuable premiums given. MAIL YOUR FILMS TO Jack Rabbit Co., SPARTANBURG, S.C.
