WEDNESDAY, APRIL 13, 1938

Campus in Cartoon

Page Two

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Someone remarked on the beauty of this campus to him, said that since it had been called to his attention, it did look beautiful, but he had never noticed it before. When we graduate from Davidson, we are supposed to be “educated gentlemen.” It has been said that no man is really educated unless he has an appreciation of the beautiful.

Founded By the Class of 1915

1957 Member 1938

Associated Collegiate Press

Distributor of Collegiate Digest

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY National Advertising Service, Inc. College Publishers Representative 420 MADISON Ave New York, N.Y. CHICAGO • BOSTON • LOS ANGELES • SAN FRANCISCO

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1874

BILL MARQUESS.................Editor-in-Chief
CHARLES MOORE.................Business Manager

Terrell Porter....................Assistant Editor
Jack Abernathy..................Managing Editor
Erle Austin.......................Managing Editor
Jack Holland.....................Managing Editor
Karl Hudson......................Managing Editor
Sam Spencer......................Managing Editor
Tom Casah.........................Editor
Ovid Bell.........................Sports Associate Editor
Joe Calvin.......................Associate Editor
Wesley Cogh.....................Associate Editor
Perry Sloan.......................Editor
Henry Baker.....................Business Manager
Walt Kunz.......................Business Manager
Wesley Coghill..................Circulation Manager
Latimer Porter..................Circulation Manager
Sam Hemphill...................Business Manager

No Promises...

As a new staff takes over a college paper, it is customary to do two things -- compliment the retiring staff and promise to do better than ever before. We do want to extend our thanks and appreciation, and, we believe, those of the entire Student Body, to Dick Vowles, for the splendid work he has done during his year as Editor of The Davidsonian. Few there are who realize how untiringly and unselfishly Dick has worked. The result he has obtained speaks for itself. None can deny that under his leadership the paper has been as good as or better than it has during any other year of its lifetime of nearly a quarter of a century. We only hope that our efforts will measure up to the standard set by Dick.

As to the second of these customs, we want to depart from the usual thing and make no promises. There have been Editors who have greatly improved The Davidsonian, there have been those who have neither harmed nor helped, and there have been another kind, we are sorry to say. Some have started out with the best of intentions, working industriously; then as week after week went by and it became simply a matter of “getting the thing out,” they grew tired of it, especially those who found practically all of the load upon their own shoulders. Difficulties beset the improving of The Davidsonian on every side. So we are making no promises.

Let it not be thought by this that we intend to take things easy. We have a number of ideas which ought to bear fruit and will represent a distinct advance if they do. Frankly, we have been quite surprised during the last two weeks by the large number of students who have evinced interest in the paper. This is as it should be. Someone has said that “a college is no better than its newspaper.” Perhaps this is going a little too far, but certainly a good paper can help mold a better college, for there are many outsiders who have nothing with which to measure Davidson but The Davidsonian. So, to use a trite, but nevertheless a good expression, “A better Davidsonian for a better Davidson.”

* * *

Appreciation

We have been strongly impressed by the truthfulness of the old saying that “Grass in the other man’s pasture always seems greenest,” especially in our consideration of the beauties of Nature. When we want to see natural beauty, we have the idea that we must travel to distant places to find it. The beauty of the familiar seems to be depressed and overlooked because we see it constantly. And yet how grossly mistaken we are! For our present surroundings portray all the beauty that Nature can afford. We do not believe we exaggerate when we say that we are living on one of the most picturesque campuses in this state. We are afforded an excellent opportunity to learn to appreciate Nature; if only we will avail ourselves of it.

We are told of a student of this college, who in his senior year, when someone remarked on the beauty of this campus to him, said that since it had been called to his attention, it did look beautiful, but he had never noticed it before. When we graduate from Davidson, we are supposed to be “educated gentlemen.” It has been said that no man is really educated unless he has an appreciation of the beautiful. Our curriculum offers few courses in appreciation, but just now when our campus is in the fullness of its splendor, we have a matchless opportunity to cultivate a sense of aesthetic appreciation such as we should possess, if only we will.

Davidson has long been noted not only for her Wildcat spirit, but also for her beautiful and picturesque campus. It is almost impossible to spend four years here and not learn to know and feel her spirit. May it be said of each of us when we graduate that we have also learned to appreciate and enjoy her beauty.

* * *

Take Heed...

There are in existence in the student body practices which we, as Davidson students, should not allow. These practices are not regarded in their true sense, but they are taken entirely too lightly. More to the point, I refer to the practice of answering the roll call in classes for an absent person, and to the practice of sitting in the church or chapel seat of an absent person. If these practices are viewed in their proper significance, I am sure you will agree that they should not exist and must be abolished immediately.

In some of the larger classes there are persons who answer the roll call for an absentee. Heretofore, this has been regarded as a joke, and to me it seems that we should realize exactly what we are doing. In the analysis, this practice is a breach of the Honor system. It could be regarded as lying—saying a person is present when he is not. That violation of the Honor System is subject to severe punishment.

In regard to taking another person’s chapel or church seat or to asking someone to take your own, in order to prevent your receiving an absence, the same principles hold true.

It is the purpose of this editorial to bring the existing facts to light in their true aspect and to attempt to make the Student Body conscious of their real significance. It is a challenge to us to stand up for what we know to be right and to do away with these evils.

—M.L.L.

* * *

Strate Dope...

Well, politics has did its work again. They done elected that fella Marquess editor of this here paper. He is that guy which has been gittin up in Stewdunt Boddy meetings every week and having them awile arguments with hisself. He takes both sides of the question and gabs so long till nobody else caint even git in a word edgeways. You might think I wus dum, writin all this stud about the editor, but I bin around and I got strate dope about everything which goes on in this school. Why, I ain't missed but fore meetings of the Executive Committee since I come here six years ago. I don’t know whut Davidson would do without me.

This dum Marquess done sed he was gonna print every editorial which anybody writ to him, but I bet he is ascared ter print this. He is ascared for everybody to know the trewth about him. This is whut my English professor calls a bitten satire or somethin like that. Like I sed, he is probably ascared to print it, but I feel it is my duty as a Davidson gentleman to enlighten the rest of the Stewdunt Boddy.

* * *

To Anonymous Writers...

The Davidsonian has always been conscientious about publishing letters to the editor, and we intend to continue this custom. However, we feel that if the writer is sincere and earnest in writing his letter, he will sign his name to it. If he does not wish his name published we will print only his initials or any pen name he desires. But to show his good faith with us, we ask that he attach his name to the letter. Thank you.

* * *

Harvard Alumni Association officials handle more than 600,000 pieces of mail annually to keep whereabouts of alumni up-to-date.

* * *

University of Georgia journalism reporting students in the winter quarter wrote 113,375 words that appeared in print in newspapers.

* * *

THE TOTAL VALUE OF THE 3000 FRATERNITY AND SORORITY HOUSES IN THE U.S. IS $85,000,000. THE AVERAGE HOUSE IS WORTH $28,118.04

THE AVERAGE HOUSE HAS 24 ROOMS — SORORITIES, 19 ROOMS. 70% OF THE HOUSES HAVE TABLE TENNIS SETS — 44% HAVE GAME ROOMS!

FRATERNITY HOUSE FURNISHINGS ALONE COST $11,000,000

EVERY FRATERNITY HOUSE IN THE COUNTRY POSSESSES AT LEAST ONE CHAPTER-OWNED 107

(Letters over 300 words in length, subject to cutting. All letters considered for publication must be signed, although the signature may be withheld if desired).

Letters to the Editor

Dear Editor:

There is one thing that I would like to have explained to me, but find it hard to approach the question because it requires so much tact. The question is of more interest to the Freshmen, because they are more directly concerned, but I am sure that every upper-classman who is genuinely interested in the welfare of the school and in the revival of the Davidson Spirit has given the matter some serious thought.

It seems impossible to stop the despicable custom existing among the Freshmen of permanently borrowing each others’ caps. In my opinion, it instigates a feeling of disappointment in the moral standards of the class. This disappointment changes into disillusionment, which worries the individual constantly. Not only that, but the disillusionment stays with the person for a long time. In fact, I have not been able to shake that feeling here longer than I had originally planned to stay at Davidson.

Besides the disillusionment caused, a slackness sets into the Freshman’s bones, and he says, “Well, my cap was stolen, so I guess it's all right for me to lift one.” And so the racket starts. And in my estimation, that is an important reason for the breakdown of one's school spirit.

Suggestion? Yes, I have one! Listen: When the Freshman buys his cap, have his name (or laundry number, or aSerial number given to each Freshman (for the purpose) printed with marking ink on the inside of the cap. Then a monthly check-up can be made by the Court of Control to see that each cap is in the proper hands. If a man is found with someone else's cap, a good long campus sentence can be given him, and of course, the cap is returned to its rightful owner. As far as the check-up goes, it would not be very hard, because the seven members of the court should be able to do the job in an hour. —MOORMON.

From Campus to Campus

Football for the small colleges is far from a profitable sport, Oberlin College's President Ernest H. Wilkins reports after a coast-to-coast survey of the financing of the gridiron sport. Quoting figures that deny the fact that “football supports the rest of the athletic program,” Pres. Wilkins states that in the 22 colleges he surveyed an average deficit of $1743 resulted from last year's football schedule.

Current grade-worrying of college and university seniors will soon turn to job-worrying, a survey conducted in New York City recently indicates. Although complete statistics are unavailable, scattered reports reveal that the job outlook for 1938's graduates will be 10 to 50 per cent poorer than in previous years because business is waiting for a trade upturn before it hires more educated help.

Another move in the direction of keeping business in touch with the times has been made here by the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation of New York. Financed by the Sloan Foundation, the Institute this June will inaugurate a special fellowship study course designed to give five young businessmen on leave from their jobs a deeper understanding of the social and economic implications of their work. In describing the purpose of the project, a Foundation leader said: “Today managerial decisions, even though directed to a limited group, often have far-reaching repercussions throughout the entire range of social and economic life. Mass production, large-scale industry, and the growth of great corporate structures have brought this about. Individual decisions of a large number of independent entrepreneurs, responsible only for small production units, no longer cancel out to a state of neutrality. On the contrary, one decision today may condition the welfare of a community for a lifetime or more.”

Frederic March and Don Ameche starred in University of Wisconsin Haresfoot Club and Player productions long before they were known to radio or filmdom. Maestro Hal Kemp gained his first experience as musical director of the Masque and Wig Shows at North Carolina. Edgar Bergen first started his sleight-of-lip tricks at Northwestern. Rudy Vallee and Lanny Ross sang in the Yale Glee Club.

OLD SAYING DISCARDED?

The old saw about opposites attracting each other in affairs of the heart is just the exception that proves the rule, science has decided. Dr. I. Lowell Kelly of Connecticut State College is piling up evidence that like attracts like when it comes to matrimony. This attraction of likes is most pronounced in the matter of physical traits, with blondes being attracted to blondes, athletic men favoring athletically inclined women, and men of sedentary inclinations finding small women to their liking. Love, on the basis of Dr. Kelly's findings, affects the judgment of women more than that of men. The women were inclined to over-rate their men’s handsomeness, but the men came closer to the mark in judging the beauty of their women.

FRIENDS AID IN DRIVE

Not only alumni of Davidson, but many friends of the college are taking part in the centennial drive. This group is being led by such distinguished men as Gov. Clyde R. Hoey and President Frank Graham of the University of North Carolina. Mr. Malcolm Lockhart, chairman of the centennial drive, reports that the fund has a balance of approximately $40,000 in cash.

Well, we've finished the last 25 per cent of our allotted social life. It’s all over, but the end was pleasant. The dances were smaller and therefore better—a fella had time to appreciate the abundance of feminine allure. Mister Dean Hudson apparently more appreciated than the money band of Mid-Winters. Virtue reigned with the white decorative theme. J. Brent Greene and Billy Boyd scraping and bowing about the floor climactic point in hospitality. Congratulations to the PH boys for an excellent set. Another Queens Day has strutted around, and the day breaks with plans of a baseball game and Colin the Magician. Hope we all turn out for Shaw Smith's show (UH know by the time this comes out... maybe I oughta write the guy a favorable press notice before the show commences). From chapel exhibition with Colin and Semi-Colin Kornegie, would think success inevitable.

A complaint dropped in my box: that those among you inclined to practice musical instruments in the afternoon, please stay away from the dormitories and steal away to some lonely place like Chambers or Shearer. It appears that there are actually some gents around here who study in the afternoon.

Dear Miss Way Way: Booby kicked around a good bit this weekend but really believe he missed ya’. A certain forceful instructor of athletics, when questioned by lovely Ann Wyley was he the horrid soul who'd kept her date away from the Friday night dance—instantly barked back, “You're darn right I am—Ya wanta make something of it?” Harry Lee Clark remembered by the loveliest lady on the floor—he merely busted open with joy or something else. Dorsett dateless borrowed the same for the Figure. Nicholson appeared periodically from parties at Cannons, but his entrees were impressive. Met Bob McClellan and Bull Durham with delightful companions at extremely late hour in a secluded spot. Understand that expense for riot of few weeks ago to be borne solely by the fraternity men participating. Even though the cause is a fraternal one, a great number of the demonstrators were not frat men, and under present decision, these go scot-free—not having paid for their fun.

Tavern: Quiet compared to the jumble of past days—everyone's exhausted from dancing—people sitting around giving each other little frayed smiles—the world’s anaemic. Cothran and brother pass merrily by and my lost faith restored. Peter McNite attempting to secure the undivided attention of some pretty Charlotte blonde. Mathis and Kornegie with appointments somewhere upstairs. Ray Pittman and Alice Murdock very much interested in each other betwixt rounds of golf. Wade Barrow and his bride-to-be Harriet Boyd sat old-folkly around and smiled indulgently. Heilman, Porter, Coghill, and Casali in knockout party very close by frequently performing a very singular rendition of Loch Lomond. Ficklen and Faison scheduled to return but plans dissolve due to a mutual fluffing.

WEAK-END—The smart boys were plentiful Saturday afternoon with these two cracks being outstanding: The first was when a boy came up, eyed me very critically and said; “Do you like that suit as well as the style they are wearing this year?” The other was of a similar vein with the person changing his words a little and coming out with: “Do you think that suit will ever come back in style again?”

WISDOM—The story comes to ears about a judge in New Jersey who had a young man before him on a charge of reckless driving. To be specific, for driving with one arm. After hearing the case he pondered a moment and then pronounced a five dollar fine. After the fine had been collected he turned to the boy and said, “Next time, my boy, park the car and do a good job while you are at it.”

PRATTLE—Bailey Williams and Dave Warden drinking mineral oil before the track meet. They said it was to oil up their throwing arms. Orchids to Mrs. Smith for instigating the planting of all the flowers about the campus. (Or maybe it should be ‘tulips to Mrs. Smith’). There is a rule and it should be enforced, about horn blowing after seven o'clock in the evening. Sometimes it gets rather bothersome, even bringing back dreadful memories of Bunny Berigan. In passing let us say all bugle blowers in Scabbard and Blade are rats of the lowest order. Ask the track team about the beautiful Tennessee weather. The co-eds at Maryville can have no dates whatsoever. Board at Maryville is only $3.50 a week. Maybe the lack of boys takes their appetite.

BOWLING—The thing for someone to do would be to put a bowling alley in here at Davidson. With the boys that bowl in Charlotte and the ones that go to Mooresville for the same reason, it would make a killing. Aside from the fact that killing is a penitentiary offense and the fact that the college wouldn't allow it, it is a cracker-jack idea. Still though it is something for Henry Harkey and Bill Busby to work over in their minds.

THUMB NAIL SKETCH... A vacumatic cyclone whirling into the debtor student's room wrenching from his scanty allowance the bit squeezed into money. “Did I subscribe to all this? Haven't I paid for this month?” a collegiate version of the proverbial country store with his complete range of high quality, low priced, easy termed products from shoe soles to hat feathers and back again by way of radios, raincoats, razors, and rackets. Also special rates for rides to Queen City, trade-in-values on old radios that will only tune in station BUZZ, and promises to deliver your paper to your very bedside (you're lucky if you get up early enough to keep some elepte on the hall from mistaking your copy for a free one, of all miracles). Yes, Davidson's bustling, happy combination of high-low pressure salesmart.

Ohio State University is cooperating in a radio project designed to strengthen cultural bonds between the U.S. and Mexico. The University of Wisconsin summer session curriculum will include 1,000 courses of study. Evansville College freshmen defeated the seniors in a true-false quiz.

WANTED: FULLER BRUSH CO.
A few select college men for summer work in various localities. Free course in salesmanship, healthy outside work, remuneration satisfactory. For particulars, write.
Greensboro, N. C.

ROLLS DEVELOPED 25¢ (Coin)
Any size roll of kodak film developed, eight never-fade Velox prints for only 25¢. Low price includes mailing envelopes. Mail your films to:
Jack Rabbit Co.
Spartanburg, S.C.