Queens Girls Are Be Guests Tuesday | To Z528 ALENDA LUX UB! ORTA The Davidsonian LIBERTAS Gardner To Conduct Annual Services VOL. XXV DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., WEDNESDAY, APRIL 6, 1938 NO. 28 BILL MARQUESS WILL EDIT DAVIDSONIAN * * * * * * * * * * PAN HELLENIC TO FEATURE HUDSON New Junior Clubmen To Make Music For Dances Spring Set, Last of Season, To Begin With Annual Military Ball During the coming weekend of April 8 and 9, the proverbial “young man’s fancy” in the average member of the Davidson College student body will turn to thoughts of Spring Dances, which will be presented at the Charlotte Armory-Auditorium by the Pan-Hellenic Council and which will feature the melodies of Dean Hudson and his Florida Clubmen. This set will consist of four dances instead of the usual three. There will be a Friday afternoon tea-dance from 5:30 until 7:30, while the Friday night formal Military Ball will last from 10 until 2. The hours for the Saturday dances are as follows: tea-dance, 4:30 until 6:30, and night informal, 8:30 until 12 o'clock. “Booby” Arrowsmith, of the Pan-Hellenic Council, stated that all efforts are being made to make this dance set one of the best in Davidson history, since these will be the last dances presented by the present Council. As yet, the plans for decoration of the Armory have not been revealed. Military Ball The formal dance on Friday night is being sponsored by Scabbard and Blade, honorary military fraternity. All senior officers in the R.O.T.C. battalion will wear their uniforms, and members of Scabbard and Blade will take part in the figure, which will be led by Lieut. Col. M. L. Lafferty and Miss Caddie Willis. Popular Band Dean Hudson’s band throughout the recent months has won acclaim in many of the South’s leading colleges as the ideal band for dance week-ends. He offers a swingy rhythm which is very danceable, and in addition he offers an assorted program of specialties and novelties. Vocalizing is done by pretty Frances Colwell, who features a rich contralto voice equally adaptable to swing music or sweet music. Bud Brown and Sam Latimer are male vocalists, and with Frances a pleasing trio is formed. Physician Will Address Club Dr. George Wilkerson To Speak to Pre-Medical Students Friday Dr. George R. Wilkerson, prominent doctor of Greenville, S. C. will speak to the Alpha Epsilon Delta, Pre-medical fraternity, on Friday night in the chemistry building. All men interested in medicine are invited to attend. Davidson Graduate Dr. Wilkerson is a graduate of Davidson, and received his medical degree from Johns Hopkins. He became well known as a diagnostician, and is the co-developer of the “Table Rock Laboratories,” in Greenville, who specialize in making bismuth violet. These laboratories also make bismuth rose mouth wash, and copper iron tonic for anemia. The bismuth violet preparation has become widely used for cuts, abrasions, trench mouth, and lately it has proven very effective for treatment of malaria. It is even used more often for malaria than is quinine. After the address by Dr. Wilkerson, three new men will be initiated. These men are Ed Morrow, Bill Rainey, and R. G. Rosser. Pictured above is Thomas Ingram, young concert pianist, who will play here at the regular chapel program on Friday. Ingram is a protege of the great Joseph Hoffman. Young Artist Appears Here Thomas Ingram, American Pianist, Plays For Chapel Friday Morning Thomas Ingram, a talented young American pianist, will play at the regular chapel exercises in Chambers Auditorium Friday morning. Mr. Ingram will be heard in concert in the auditorium of Mitchell College in Statesville Thursday evening at eight o'clock, and the college was fortunate in securing him for the chapel program on such short notice. Tennessean This young artist is a product of West Tennessee, hailing from Trenton, Tennessee, which is also the home of Bill Davidson, sophomore, and Conrad Frederick Smith, Alumni Secretary. At present, Ingram is the protege of the famous Josef Hoffman, concert pianist, and he has also won favorable criticism from such notable artists as Glen Dillford Gunn, Rudolph Ganz, and Isadore Phillips, of the Paris Conservatory. Young Ingram, after winning first place in three state-wide contests in Tennessee, went to Chicago, where he studied under Rudolph Ganz. Later he became Hoffman’s protege, and at present he is a member of the Curtis Institute Concert Course in Philadelphia, and is also a member of the faculty of the Delaware School of Music in Wilmington. After a number of concerts in the East during the winter, Ingram is now on concert tour through North Carolina, Virginia, and Tennessee. Dale Embers, McPherson College, has driven 28,800 miles for a college education. He travels 20 miles a day to and from classes. 38-39 Registration Mr. F. W. Hengeveld, Registrar of Davidson, has announced that all members of the Freshman, Sophomore, and Junior classes will be required to register for courses for the 1938-39 session during the week of April 18-23. Members of the Freshman and Sophomore class will be expected to interview their faculty advisers before assignments to courses are made in the Registrar’s office. Students are also required to pay the registration fee of ten dollars to the Treasurer’s office at the time of registration. Students may also register for the summer session at this same time. A tentative schedule of recitations will be posted by April 12 for student reference. Founder’s Day Celebration United States as well as the Queen To Be Guests Baseball Game in Afternoon And “Olin’s” Tricks Will Provide Entertainment The entire student body of Queens-Chicora College has been invited to visit the Davidson campus next Tuesday, April 12, and to help in the celebration of this one hundred-first Founder’s Day. Elaborate plans are forming for the observance of the college anniversary. No classes will be held after the second period. Governor Clyde R. Hoey will be the speaker at chapel services, which will commemorate the sesquicentennial of the adoption of the Constitution of the United States as well as the origin of Davidson. Date Bureaus The girls will arrive shortly after lunch. Pairings with escorts will be accomplished, as on former occasions, by date bureaus. Entertainment for the afternoon will include a baseball game with Lenoir Rhyne. Supper will be served to the guests in the banquet hall of Chambers Building. In the evening a performance will be presented by “Olin the Magician” better known on the campus as Shaw Smith. Other entertainment, as yet undetermined, is being considered. Second Queens’ Day The first Queens Day was held last spring and was so much a success that the faculty suggested that it be repeated this year. The student committee in charge of the event is headed by Wade Barrow. Queens was selected for the invitation, stated Barrow, as it seemed by far the most popular girl’s school with Davidson undergraduates. Elliott Talks On Diplomacy Dr. William Yandell Elliott spoke at Chambers Auditorium last Friday night to an audience of some five hundred. The subject of his address was “The British Empire Key to World Diplomacy.” Dr. Elliott said in beginning that he was pleased to speak in the South since he himself is a Southerner, being from Tennessee. He added that the South had contributed very greatly to the government of this country. Cordell Hull, another Tennessean, Secretary of State, he said, is making a heroic effort to bring the world back to economic security, but that his efforts would either be made or broken by Great Britain’s policy. “Though Great Britain rules one-fourth of the world,” Dr. Elliott said, “she has three key problems today.” The first of these is in her own people—the fact that they consist of so many races. Second is Italy’s position in the Mediterranean. And the greatest and most perplexing problem is Germany. To force any issue in opposition to Hitler’s policy would probably mean war, and England can not risk that. Dr. Elliott discussed England’s government, and strongly intimated that Stanley Baldwin, not Chamberlain, was the real power there. He also stated that at present Baldwin is organizing a system in opposition to the working classes. On the whole Dr. Elliott’s speech was quite pessimistic. Zamora To Speak Dr. Juan Zamora will give two lectures here on April 14 through 16. Dr. Zamora will lecture in both Spanish and English. He has scheduled a number of lectures at various southern universities and colleges with the aim of observing methods and ways of teaching and possibly arranging for exchange students from the U. S. to U. of Havana. Shapiro’s Orchestra To Be Presented In Concert Noted European Conductor Will Bring Artists to Chambers Tonight The Little Philharmonic Orchestra under the direction and leadership of Mr. George Shapiro will give a concert tonight, April 6, at 8:30 P.M., as announced last week. The program will consist of a varied group of selections from many well-known composers. The orchestra is under the able guidance of Mr. George H. Shapiro who is renowned throughout the world for his remarkable performances in the leading European centers of culture as Hamburg, Munich, Brussels, London, and others of note. International Group The group of performers is made up of artists from Russia, Denmark, Norway, Holland, Austria, Czechoslovakia, Mexico and the United States. Being from such a widely scattered area, harmony would seem impossible according to the musical director, Mr. Shapiro, but to the racial and religious differences never occur under his full strength in the program of the evening. The selections chosen for the program are: Overture from the opera “The Bat” by JohannThe spell of the baton. The orchestra is not small as the name might imply but is one of in B Shubert; to “Mignon” by Ambroise Strauss, Jr.; “Symphony Minor” (“Unfinished”) by Overture Thomas; “Claire de Lune” and “Arabesque” No. 2 by Debussy, “Hungarian Dance in G Minor” by Johannes Brahms, McDowell’s “To a Wild Rose,” and Johann Strauss, Sr.’s “Perpetual Motion.”

Versatile Leader
The success of this renowned organization is undoubtedly due to the bright personality of its versatile leader who has met with so much success in other fields of life. He is well known as an athlete and his hobby leans toward mechanics. Quoting Mr. Shapire, “The law of mechanics has its counterpart in music in the collateral law of rhythm. Without a basic pattern, that of rhythm, there can be no breath of life in the art of organized sound, because, just as a piece of machinery is the materialization of the law of mechanics, so is music the idealization of sounds on the basis of the law of rhythm and harmony.”

McClellan Is Ahead In Vote
Bolin, Richmond Chosen Vice Presidents of Athletic Association
As the Davidsonian went to press, the only available returns from the Athletic Association election were those from the first ballot, held in chapel on Monday morning. At this time Bob McClellan led Ned Iverson for president by 14 votes, the count being 55 to 41. Others remaining in the race after one day’s voting were Sam Hemphill with 28 votes, Bill Davis and John Tice with 24 each. All senior lettermen in any sport during the past year were automatically nominated for this office. Bill Bolin and George Richmond were elected first and second vice presidents respectively on the first ballot. Bolin received 167 votes and Richmond 164. Both are sophomores and made their letters last fall. All rising junior lettermen were nominated for this position. Bill Snelling held an eight-vote lead over his competitor, Jim Hogg, in the race for secretary and treasurer. Snelling polled 38 votes, while 30 were cast for Hogg.

Davidsonian Recognizes Military Frat
Bids Thirteen
Twelve Rising Seniors and Maj. Steel Tapped in Impressive Ceremony
The Davidson Company Seabbard and Blade tapped thirteen men at parade Monday afternoon. Those tapped were: Esmond Bailey, Jim Ballard, Bob Benfield, Ed Cloyd, Wesley Coghill, Joe Craver, Sam Hemphill, Mark Lillard, Addison Long, Rec Stair, John Tice, Andy Turner, and Maj. C. L. Steele. After the parade was formed and the battalion was given “rest,” Teeny Lafferty, as Captain of the local company of Seabbard and Blade, saluted each man, who kneeled on his right knee and received the sword across the shoulder and the badge on his coat. After this, the men receiving the tap reviewed the parade. Informal initiation was on Tuesday. The new men arose at four-thirty in the morning and pursued various duties throughout the day. The campus was under martial law from ten o'clock Tuesday night until Wednesday morning. The various men walked posts around the campus and mounted guard as in a regular military setting.

Services of Wilkerson
Senior Has Been Prominent In Religious Work
This week the Davidsonian turns to another member of the senior class in recognizing the service and achievement of Andy Wilkerson. Andy came to Davidson four years ago from Durham and still makes his home in the city. During his four years at Davidson, he has served principally in the religious work on the campus. He was president of the Ministerial Band last semester, and has for four years been very active in the young people's work at the Davidson Presbyterian Church.

Services To Town
One of the high points in his religious work is the movement now on foot to make the services at the local church more interesting to students and create a more friendly attitude between students and townspeople. Andy has been the moving spirit behind this campaign from the very first, and presided over the meeting of representatives from the student body and from various church organizations held Sunday. Andy has been assistant to Dr. C. M. Richards for the past two years, and has also made the dean’s list. Besides his services and other honors, he is secretary of Eta Sigma Phi, which has been reorganized this year, and is a member of Delta Phi Alpha, honorary German fraternity.

Editor
Bill Marquess of Decatur, Ga., was elected Editor-in-Chief of The Davidsonian for 1938 and 1939 at the chapel period last Friday. For the last year, he has been Sports Editor of the paper.

Gardner To Be Speaker
Atlanta Minister Will Conduct Annual Spring Vesper Services
The Y.M.C.A. Board of Control takes great pleasure in announcing the acceptance of Dr. Bill Gardner of the First Presbyterian Church of Atlanta, to speak at the annual Davidson College Spring Services. The time for these services has been set for April 26 through the 28th. Plans are now underway to make this series of addresses and meetings a wonderful climax to the many religious efforts that have been made on the campus this year. The Fall and Spring services have always been popular among the students, and this one in particular is expected to prove even more popular. Dr. Gardner is one of the best-fitted men in the Southern Presbyterian Church to speak to such a group of young men. A comparatively young man in the church, only having graduated from the seminary in 1928, he is pastor at one of the largest churches in Atlanta, the Southern Presbyterian Church.

Deputation
A group of six men went to Charlotte today on a Y.M.C.A. deputation trip to help in the annual “Come Clean” campaign. Also, a like group left here last night and spent the night in the Charlotte Y.M.C.A. This morning some ministers came and got each of the six boys and took them to different schools in the vicinity of Charlotte. Each boy visited about three schools each, and they delivered character-building talks to the students. After their talks, they spread cards around the group on which the common bad habits were listed, and they were to check the ones which they were willing to give up. The boys going on this deputation were: Don McInnis, Dave McLean, Bob Ramsey, Henry McConnell, Al Bixler, and “Boo” Walker. This has been an annual project for the Y.M.C.A.

Editors Are Announced
Abernathy, Austin, Casali, Holland, Hudson, and Spencer Chosen
Bill Marquess, of Decatur, Ga., a member of the rising senior class, was selected the editor of the Davidsonian for next year by a vote of 213 to 18 over Terrell Porter, on the second ballot Friday. To complete the staff for next year, the present managing editors chose the managing editors for next year from the dozen or so candidates of the rising junior class. Those selected are Jack Abernathy, Erle Austin, Jack Holland, Karl Hudson, Sam Spencer—Managing Editors; Tom Casali—Sports Editor.

Chosen From Six
Marquess and Porter were the two high men on the first ballot over the other four managing editors, who were: Perry Sloan, Joe Calvin, Wesley Coghill, and Ovid Bell. On this ballot, Marquess polled 116 votes to 85 for Porter, with the others about evenly distributed among the four. All of the present managing editors are to be given the Davidsonian Key, an honor created last year as a reward for three years of service to the paper.

President of Frat
Marquess is a member of Phi Delta Theta social fraternity, and has been elected president of the chapter for next year; he is a member of Sigma Upsilon and Alpha Phi Epsilon, also in the Red and Black Masquer and is secretary and treasurer of the present Junior class. Those sophomores who have completed two years of work on the staff and were eligible for managing editorships next year are: Jack Abernathy, Earl Austin, Harper Beall, Tom Casali, Walter Fitzgerald, Harry Hendrick, Jack Holland, Karl Hudson, Charles Lathe, Tom Perrin, Sam Spencer, John Waters, and Bob Wood.

Delegates Go To Convention
University of South Carolina Acts as Host
Charlie Brown, official delegate, Jackson Hector McGeachy, and Richard Vowles attended the province convention of Omicron Delta Kappa in Columbia, S. C., on April 1 and 2. At the luncheon on Saturday, Mr. Jackson, national president of the honorary leadership fraternity, was the principal speaker. This convention was the final session.

Five Schools Represented
The six colleges and universities which compose this province are Rollins College, Georgia School of Technology, University of Georgia, Emory University, Davidson College, and Duke University. There were delegates representing all six. The University of South Carolina was host to the convention. Frank Jordan, president of that chapter, made all the arrangements for the meeting.

Brown Reports
Charlie Brown, the delegate of the Davidson chapter, reported from this chapter to the convention on Friday afternoon, the time at which all reports were made. This was followed by discussion. A model initiation was presented by the Rollins chapter late Saturday afternoon. This was followed by a banquet and a dance. Next year the convention will meet in Winter Park, Fla., as the guest of Rollins College.