Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, OCT. 5, 1938

The Davidsonian
Founded By the Class of 1915

1938 Member 1939
Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON AVE. New York, N. Y.
CHICAGO * BOSTON * LOS ANGELES * SAN FRANCISCO

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879.

JESS SINGLETARY Editor-in-Chief
PONS MARQUEE Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF:
Terrell Porter Assistant Editor
Jack Abernathy Managing Editor
Bill Austin Managing Editor
John Holland Managing Editor
Karl Hudson Managing Editor
Sam Spencer Managing Editor
Tom Casali Managing Editor
Ovid Bell Managing Editor
Joe Calvin Managing Editor
Wesley Coghill Managing Editor
Perry Sloan Staff

BUSINESS STAFF:
Bill Ross Advertising Manager
Julian Lokey Circulation Manager
Tom Hackney Circulation Manager
Bud Gilmore Collection Manager

War and Peace

We know a lot of Davidson students who would have enjoyed being in Disney, Oklahoma, about the middle of May. We think that it was made to order for the following Associated Press news story that appeared about May 15 of last week’s riotous water fight. Disney tells why:

You can't be arrested for disturbin’ the peace here ‘cause there ain't gonna be any more peace. Not for 30 days. If you wanna holler on main street at midnight, you can durn well holler. If you keep the nickelodeon in the tavern janglin’ until all hours, let ‘er jangle. If you wanna lift its horn tootin’ or ra’rin’ up the street in the flivver with the cutout open you crave, nobody's gonna stop you, off at victory dance to celebrate the election of Billy Baker, whoopee dictator of Disney for the next 30 days. Mrs. Vera Silar, grocery operator, who won 603 votes to Baker’s 201, waved a two-bitted axe and declared for a curfew law. The lid will be blown off at a big dance. After the Baker dance-and-be-merry regime Mrs. Silar gets her chance to make the dam workmen like a quiet town for 30 days. After that, when this boom town is incorporated, there’s to be a vote on how it's to be run permanently. Chief of Police Hale Dunn looked a bit disturbed. “Looks as if I'm shunted on a siding,” he opined.

Ambition...

A vast amount of bunk is written nowadays, and a lot more of it is talked, about ambition. To hear writers and speakers shout, one might have an exaggerated idea about the number of people who are fired with ambition, always on their toes, and alert for a means of betterment. Much has been said about the ambition of some people. Almost nothing has been said about the lack of ambition of others. If by ambition one means dissatisfaction, then there is really an abundance of it, because some people would go without eating if they couldn’t think of something to gripe about. Everyone wants more of this and less of that, a bigger income, less work, and longer vacations (or perhaps fewer classes, shorter assignments, and more holidays!). But if by ambition one means a determination to advance, a determination to succeed and become more efficient, more valuable, more useful, which in return will bring more happiness in the end, the evidence is not so easy to find. The adjective “complacent” is often applied to Davidson students. If so, it’s high time we did something about it.

New Column

Beginning in our next issue we will inaugurate a column to be written each week by some campus officer expressing his views on some matter of student interest. Fred Stair, President of the Student Body, will be the first columnist.

Why Double Cuts?

Comes once more the complaint against our peculiar system of double cuts on weekends of our football games away from the campus, and I propose to take up the cry where we left it last fall. We are all too aware of the rules of the administration that a student attending a Davidson game in Greensboro, in Raleigh, or in Durham, is charged with double cuts. We are apparently agreed that the rule is unjust. Obviously this outmoded rule dates back to the Dark Ages when a student’s interest in intercollegiate sports was confined to the ups and downs of his own school’s teams. Time marches on, and we live in a day when national, or at least sectional, sports coverage, when the hundred-mile, day-long journey of yesteryear becomes a short jaunt of only two hours. Naturally the scope of a man’s interests has broadened, his ideals have changed. Where once he devoted all his attention to the fortunes of the old home team, he now thrills to the prospect of seeing a team of All-American semi-pros on a neighboring campus Saturday afternoon. And, with abject apologies to our fighting Wildcats, this is sadly true on our own campus. So this obsolete ruling has lost its desired effect: to keep the student body on the campus, tending to their studies. Though it was enacted in all good faith, it stands only as a hindrance to those few students still possessing the Wildcat spirit famous all over the South who wish to follow their team on its way to victory. Surely the question can be re-opened so that a new rule, fair to both the students and the administration, might be drafted.

—O.H.B.

An Old Chinese Custom

“Honor thy father and thy mother...” Down through the ages this commandment has been observed, not only by those to whom the Law was given, but also by those who have never heard of the commandment. The Chinese have carried this to an extreme in their ancestor worship. All of the other nations that I have ever heard of have held their parents in high esteem. This was true of the United States also until more modern times. Now, I am sorry to say, this regard for the parents on the part of the offspring has fallen deplorably. “Why, I love my parents and always have,” some of you will say. Well, I will agree with you. You have loved your parents from the very beginning, but in a very indifferent sort of way. We honor our parents best by the way in which we conduct ourselves when we are away from them. What we say. What we do. How we show appreciation for all that they have done for us. Now, do you still think that your father and mother should be honored? All that we are, have, and do, we owe them. When was the last time you expressed a bit of appreciation to them for all they have done? When was the last time you wrote home to them? I actually heard a Davidson student brag the other day that he had not written home since school started this year. Some of you are here for your first year; others for the second, third, or fourth. Have you ever written to thank your folks for sending you to school? It is a sacrifice for any parent to send his son to college for four years. Some of them have borrowed money in order to make their son’s education complete. Write a note home tonight and thank your folks for sending you to school—they will appreciate it. Sentimental? Well, perhaps, but I don’t think so. I am going to thank my dad and mother right now. I know what they have sacrificed to put me through Davidson, and I appreciate it deeper than I can express. My only hope is that I will make my college education worthy of their sacrifice, and become the man they expect me to be, and one they will ever be proud of.

Stuart R. Oglesby.

CAMPUS IN CARTOON

SUPER SNOOPINGS

SAM MAY, janitor of the U. OF ALABAMA CHEMISTRY SCHOOL, HAS, THROUGH 25 YEARS’ EXPERIENCE, LEARNED EVERY FORMULA IN THE QUALITATIVE ANALYSIS BOOK. HE IS EXPERT AT ANALYZING CHEMICAL COMPOUNDS BY SIMPLY “SMELLIN’ ‘EM, AND IDENTIFYIN’ ‘EM.

The UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON OFFERED A SPECIAL JANITORIAL COURSE DURING THE LAST SUMMER SCHOOL SESSION.

The Editor

We would rather condemn than construct. Instead of having “Letters to the Editor” a poor forgotten column or two a week, it should cover at least half a page. The Editor should not have trouble getting material into it, but should have a hard time keeping it out. There are plenty of topics for discussion. Every student has a pet peeve. If we could just get a good section started, with a few good literary battles in it, and with every student eligible and capable, we could build an interesting column that we could call our own. Only one more thing need be said. We must observe the rules of the game. Unnecessary roughness, hitting below the belt, and offsides will be penalized in football. It takes a man to play the game and observe the rules. The game will go on, however, and it will be won. We students can write like good sports and win out our controversies. No one pays attention to the grandstand quarterback, because he only talks a good game.

Snooper.Dear Bill,

I'd like to use this method to find out if the soccer team is notable. We have a fine stadium. Why not use it? As I remember, last year they practiced on the field, but this extra traveling to and from Charlotte is inconvenient. The team plays better at home. The student body is almost one hundred percent behind these six points:

1. We don't like the idea of traveling.
2. It is inconvenient.
3. The team plays better at home.
4. We have a fine stadium. Why not use it?
5. An objection to house parties is that they are dangerous.
6. Freshman year it seems that they are planning to hold regular practice on the intramural field by Chambers, where many students play touch-football every afternoon.

I've heard that Coach McEver wouldn't let them in the football field so they can practice behind the stadium on the far side, and the Freshman field is definitely crowded with frosh football practice and intramural games going on. However, I believe that a great many boys count on the touch football field by Chambers for everyday use and that the number using this field for touch is far greater than those playing soccer. Also, intramural athletics is a feature of the education program while soccer is not open as a varsity sport. Can't something be done so that the touch-football games can continue every afternoon as in the past? Surely there is some other place on the campus that the soccer team can use for practice.

Sincerely,
A Touch Footballer

To the Editor of The Davidsonian:

What has happened to that part of The Davidsonian that we students can call our own, the “Letters to the Editor?” It is quite certain that the lack of such letters is not due to any lack of student thought on controversial matters. The boys do not do much thinking for classes, but show me the student that doesn’t look upon himself as a power in a good old “bull slinging session.” At the present time, the prime cuts of beef at these “bull-slinging-bees” seem to be, excluding women and Davidson's moral victories, football games in Charlotte; Davidson itself, its policies, professors, trustees, administration, and all that concerns it; the Athletic department; the honor fraternities; the Davidson Spirit; and affairs of national interest.

There is, however, one thing that is common to every session, that is the time-honored, but fearfully neglected remarks, “I’m going to write about that in The Davidsonian.” Every Davidsonian man has made that remark at one time or another, yet he has always lacked the nerve, the ambition, but rarely the ability to do something about it. The trouble is that we lack fight, that we are lazy.

For this week it would please me to change my name from your wary to your weary columnist. All of you have done me wrong by splitting up and displaying your playboyish tendencies in various metropolises, and not being of the Will-o-the-Wisp nature I could only look in one keyhole at once. So after vainly trying to decide between the Duke game, Carolina-State fracas featured by Meredith hop, and the Salem ball, your Super Snooper went into hibernation for the weekend fortified with a magazine and a radio. Saturday was an enjoyable relief in contrast to the week before; then making a beeline for each group on the campus as the boys returned, I picked up a few scraps of conversation worth passing along.

The response of volunteer firemen to the call last Wednesday evening was enough to warm the heart of any veteran pole slider. Reliable sources report that around ten of the courageous volunteers have been cited by the faculty for distinguished service.

There is one school rule which to my way of thinking has become sadly antiquated—double cuts on football weekends. The school spirit is bound to degenerate when two or three times as many fellows go to games of other schools equally distant because they feel that they cannot stand the double cuts. There is a terrible fallacy somewhere that ought to be corrected when this condition exists.

Best reports from Durham deal with the deadly accuracy of Joe Brinson with a cigarette butt. Joe still believes the old axiom, “Discretion is the better part of valor”—Dick Taylor the unseen man of the hour—Addison Long and date very hard to find after the game; no logical excuses reported as yet. Rea Tenney making the supreme sacrifice Saturday night after military maneuvers with Mike Munoz—Kappa Sigs and SAE’s report Mooresville carnival up to fullest expectations with all envious of the old man in bald head row—We wonder what takes all the boys up to Ken Lawson's room this fall.

In the Groove
By TOM PERRIN

Columns are funny things. New ones crop up about this time every year in college papers from here to yonder. They don't spring up full-grown; it takes several editions. We came to that conclusion after looking over quite a few exchanges from other schools and the “Davidsonians” of former years. So this'll hope—and improve, we hope. Incidentally, if you've got any ideas for a better column, use them. We could certainly use them.

We want to make clear from the outset one of our policies. We are determined to make no move to unmask Super Snooper. Probably he'll feel a little disappointed if we just ignore him—but it can't be helped. Sooner or later he'll come out from behind that pseudonym. We wait.

Letter...

Not long ago we saw a letter that boosted our pride in the home of the Wildcat by a notch or two. Hoping it'll do the same for you, we would like to print the sentence that struck us most. The writer, we must tell you, was a freshman here last year and transferred to a university in the west. He says: “You know, all of that talk one constantly hears up there about Davidson's friendly spirit may seem a little over-rated; but when you get in a little different atmosphere, the strength of it stands out clear as a bell.”

Bands...

The Pan Hellenic boys are at it again. Having tossed off arrangements for one set this month, they turn their thoughts to foresight to get a top-rank band, it seems. Jimmy Dorsey was seriously considered until news came that he had recently accepted an engagement for the second weekend of February—the date the Greeks had set their hearts on. That leaves negotiations wide open, and may the best band win. Personally, we would like to see a Hal Kemp set, and we think it would be popular. Mr. Dorsey's brother Tommy and a Mr. Kay Kayser have accepted previous invitations and couldn't possibly come. How about Kemp? Drop a card to your representative today! Of course, Kemp may be too busy too.

Dorseys...

Did you ever hear of a certain Thomas A. Dorsey who records, if we remember aright, for the Vocalion people? He isn't the one you're probably thinking of. He is known as “Your Gospel Singer,” or something like that, and that about sums him up. We like to dwell upon the marvelous confusion that seems quite possible from such a coincidence. Swing it, Thomas. Amen, Tommy.

Alley...

We have often thought that if we wanted to make a million quickly and without effort we would open a bowling center in Davidson. The idea isn't worth a pfennig to us now, though; somebody has beaten us to it. The old telephone building is the site, and it has been lengthened some fifteen feet so the alley length will be standard. We couldn't rob the “Davidsonian” of its rightful revenue by putting in a plug for the establishment, of course. But bowling is great sport.

Film Report Card
By CHARLIE LUTHER

Thursday & Friday, Oct. 6 & 7.
** “FOUR DAUGHTERS”—Claude Rains, May Robson, Rosemary, Priscilla, and Lola Lane.
“Four Daughters” is a family picture—a story of four sisters, just ordinary girls, and their lives. Their story will hit close to the hearts of many of you who have seen your family grow up just like this family. There is human, broad comedy, tragedy, and melodrama, all ably put together so that the result is one of the most satisfying pictures you'll see in a long time.

Saturday, Oct. 8.
** “MR. DOODLE KICKS OFF”—Joe Penner, June Travis, and Richard Lane.
Well suited for Saturday and a change from the usual light horse opera. With the boys’ usual smoking, stomping of feet, singing, booing, and smart cracks. The story is of a college atmosphere with football as the theme. In order to obtain some “CASH” (endowment) from Joe Penner's father, college authorities have to make a gridiron celebrity of Joe, who is a music-mad collegian. Most of his time and talents would go to see it since there is no football game here Saturday.

Monday & Tuesday, Oct. 9 & 10.
** “ROOM SERVICE”—The Marx Brothers, Ann Miller, and Lucille Ball.
A comedy of the usual type of the Marx Brothers, who appear to most people as being very hilarious and usually are. In this show, they are in the theatrical business. Groucho Marx is the theatrical producer, and Chico and Harpo are his assistants in this hilarious picturization of the stage hit.

The reason there seems to be so few good people in the world is because the newspapers have so little to say about them, while the awful bad folks are so darn well advertised.

People who are worthless are not a target for the abuse and aspersions of jealous minds.