By TONI CASALI

The basketball team, after having had what many consider an unsuccessful season, came back strong last Saturday night with the best game of the season. The 'Cats had a solid performance, scoring a significant number of points. This was not matched by any team this year. The other team that had similar success was A&M. But the Wildcats surely set the record for the number of goals scored in one game.

Another interesting fact about the basketball season is that if the 'Cats had tossed in 9 more points in five of their games, they would have won these five games and this would have placed them in THIRD PLACE in the conference standings. The 'Cats ended the Carolina and Citadel games with a tie — that is before the extra period was played. Two points could have won both of these games. Against N.C. State, which ended 25-24, two points would have won it. Citadel again licked us, 26-28. Three points would have won it. Finally, against Clemson, who won 35-34, two points would have won it. This makes a total of five games lost by only 9 points. That’s what kept the 'Cats out of the Southern Conference tournament. This is not an alibi, it merely proves that the 'Cats have had tough luck. Last year, the toss of a coin kept us out—this year, however, only 9 points did. Lady Luck, where are you?

Sample Cops

Hats off to the eight Davidson entrants at Chapel Hill last week. They gained third place and Woods practiced mile Crisp gained fifth place in the shot put, giving Davidson fourth place in the final standings.

Abbey Takes Crown

The Junior College Basketball tournament last week, under the direction of Athletic Director Norman Shepard, was held here. Belmont Abbey won top honors, defeating Campbell College 32-20 in the finals, after decisively beating Presbyterian Junior College in the second round. In the first round of the tournament, Oak Ridge upset Boiling Springs with a goal in the last five seconds of play. Wingate was the next to fall. Lanier led the scoring with 12 timely markers.

Lees-McRae Wins

Lees-McRae played the best game of the tournament in the other semi-final. The first half was close, but after that, they set the pace, defeating Campbell.

Cat Gridders To End Grind

The Wildcats are in the last lap of spring training. The scrimmage, pass offense, and defense have dominated the practice. Bill Davis, Harrison, and Hunter have been doing most of the tossing. Bill Hinton, a big fullback, has been shifted to center. The Wildcats will be scrappy. The first-string line seems to be shaping up as a fairly heavy unit from tackle to tackle, but the ends will present a big problem. The backfield will be an open race with about ten men having a chance to break into the opening lineup. Bill Davis seems to have the inside track for the tail-back assignment. His quicker starts have marked him as a greatly improved runner. The entire Wildcat squad, by their fight and determination, have sounded a storm warning to the colleges on the Davidson schedule next fall.

Wrestling Captain

A consistent winner in the Wildcat wrestling fold is none other than Howard McFadyen, who has served three years on the varsity team. Howard has consistently supplied the students with plenty of excitement, but his most recent achievement happened in the meet with V.M.I. last week. V.M.I. has not lost a meet in the last two years, and the 'Cats threatened to spoil this record. With a pin over his man, McFadyen would have accomplished the feat, and even though he did not pin him, he broke the game V.M.I. heavyweight’s ribs trying to do so. He did, however, get the decision, but Davidson lost 14 1-2 to 13 1-2. Mac has lost only one match this year, that being to the Virginia heavyweight, but Mac is "gunning" for him in the conference meet which will be held at Blacksburg this Saturday. Howard should walk off with the championship in the heavyweight class as he has beaten, at some time or another, every conference foe that will be entered in the tourney.

Junior College Tourney

INVISIBLE RE-WEAVING SERVICE
Burns and Tears Rewoven
501 INDEPENDENCE BLDG.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Tennis Ace

Bronston Kenney, star tennis man for the past two years, will be playing his last season for the Wildcats this spring. (Photo by Fred Smith).

Cat Matters Lose To V.M.I.

Cadets Eke Out Victory To Keep Slate Clean

The V.M.I. matmen kept their record clean by eking out a 14 1-2 to 13 1-2 victory over the Wildcats in Lexington. The victory margin came after an uphill climb by the Wildcats. In the first bout, Strate, McIntyre, and Graver won with a bar arm and half nelson. In the next bout, 126-pounder Graver threw his opponent. The Wildcats' 135-pound man got the decision over his opponent. The Cadets took the lead in the next bout with a decision over Graham. McFadyen, in the 175-pound division, had the only other fall of the night. He used a combination head scissors and arm lock. Wasdelh (V.M.I.) and Cochran battled to a draw. Captain Howard came through with a win, bringing Davidson within one point of the opponents.

Cochran Weds Michigan Girl

Announcement has been received of the wedding of H. Miller Cochran, '34, to Miss Julie Case of Mt. Clemens, Mich., on Dec. 23, 1937. Miller, a member of ODK leadership fraternity here, was popular as a student. He was prominent in athletics, having set school records in the shot put and discus throw. On graduation, he entered the army air corps and is now a lieutenant in the air reserve. Underclassmen recall his brilliant stunt flying over the campus last autumn. Lately, Maj. Cochran, whose father, M. Cochran, was several years connected with the ROTC unit here, has been living in Detroit, Mich.

Davidson Sport

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Cats In Tie For Fourth In S.C. Meet

Duke Noses Out Carolina To Win First Place By Two-Point Margin

Duke University Blue Devils took top honors in the ninth annual Southern Conference indoor track and field games held at Chapel Hill last Saturday. Carolina, with 38 points, landed in second place with only two points less than the winner. Maryland held third place with 23 points, while Davidson and V.P.I. were tied for fourth with eight points apiece. Charlie Sample drew a first place for the Wildcats in the pole vault when he outjumped Ellis of V.P.I. and Fort of Davidson at 11 feet 10 inches and then went ahead to a height of 12 feet 2 inches. Fort tied with Ellis at 11 1/2 feet but was given third place because he made more attempts than the Tech man at a lower height. After scoring seven points in the vault, Dave Woodward added another to the 'Cat score when he placed fourth in the two-mile run.

Kitten Cagers End Year By Losing to Baby Deacs

Hogg Paces Kittens As Wake Forest Frosh Win| for the "Cats in this event, did not place. The Wake Forest freshman did not manage to place in his heat of the 440-yard dash. Hickman ran a new low in the shot with his heave of 40 feet 5 inches until Wrenn of Carolina edged him out. Some of the stiffest competition was met by Captain Wicker in the hurdles, and Weeks of Barium took the 118-pound class by forfeit. Beshears, one of the Barium champions, got revenge for his former defeat by winning a hard-fought match in the 155-pound class. E. Bosworth made it three straight for the Orphanage when he gained a decision over Ed Wilson in the 135-pound class. Joe Wilson then broke the ice for Davidson with a decision over B. Bosworth of Barium in the 155-pound class. McDuffie then proceeded to gain a decision over McCrimmon of Barium. Sigmon gave the Barium boys a hard time, but the Kittens managed to gain a well-earned tie with the Orphans.

Davidson opened the baseball training season last Monday afternoon with a promising group of aspirants reporting to Coach Flake Laird. With the addition of last year's fine freshman team and most of last year's team back, the 'Cats hope to rank high in the Southern Conference race this season. Joe Kellam, who has held the shortstop position for the last two seasons, will captain this year’s team.

The top-seeded University of Washington & Lee Generals, defending champions, will enter the tournament with a record of thirteen wins and two losses. The drawing ended a three-year streak for the combined forces of the N. C. State five, who top the lower bracket with an impressive record for the season. The other three teams competing are the Duke Blue Devils, rated as dark horses for the tournament because of their remarkable comeback after an early season flop, the Richmond Spiders, and the Maryland Terps. Wake Forest, also rated as in the running before the draw, were left out. Pairings place Clemson vs. Richmond in the first game at three o'clock, the Citadel against Maryland in the second engagement, N. C. State vs. Washington & Lee at eight, and the last contest, N. C. State vs. Duke. Those competing at three and eight compose the first bracket, while the others make up the second.

Rehearsals for the Cercle Francais are underway. It is not planned to make as many trips this season as usual. Last year the Cercle Francais presented a program of three numbers in Davidson, Coker College, Winthrop College, and Converse College.

Davidson's Kitten matmen made a name for themselves during the past week when they gained a victory over the strong state champions, the Barium Springs team. The game was a hard-fought contest until the final whistle, with both teams giving all they had. Wake Forest got off to an early lead of five points and kept that lead until the end of the game. The score at the half was 20 to 18. In the last half, the pace speeded up and it looked for a moment as though the Kittens might even the score, but the Baby Deacons dropped two long shots which stopped the rally. Jimmy Hogg was high scorer for the Kittens with seven points. Frank Niven and Billy Turner followed closely with six and five points respectively.

Davidson's basketball team won two Southern Conference games last week when it beat the South Carolina team 36-22 in Columbia on Thursday night and returned to Davidson to take the Furman team Saturday night, 61-36, and then dropped a 47-45 decision to Wake Forest on Monday. The Wildcats quickly drew into the lead with the Gamecocks after a closely contested first period. The game was closely contested all the way, and there were many fouls committed. J. D. Hicks and "Footsie" Cowan led the winners with 11 points, while Tom Flutto had the same number for the Gamecocks. The score at the half was 21-13, Davidson leading.

On Saturday night, the Wildcats again waxed hot and played probably the best game of the season to down another South Carolina team, Furman, by the score of 61 to 36. The passing of the Davidson team was accurate, and the shooting was unerring. Hicks again led the team in scoring with 14 points, but Ned Iverson, Johnny Tice, and Cowan followed closely with 12 points each. Hicks and Tice played exceptionally good floor games, and Tice scored all 12 of his points in the first half. Wofford played a defensive game for the Furman team, leading their scoring with 11 points. The score at the intermission was 34-17 in favor of Davidson.

Tragedy again stalked the Davidson court Monday night when the Cats closed their season by losing another close one to Wake Forest by a 47-45 score. The worst blow that could have befallen the Felines struck when "Footsie" Cowan, ace center and leading scorer of the club, was forced out of the game on personals when it was scarcely ten minutes old. Captain Ned Iverson took his place and played a splendid game, but the old scoring punch was lacking in the clutch. Iverson was high scorer of the night with an 18-point total, followed by J. D. Hicks with 12. Lefty Jim Waller led the visitors with 13. The Wildcats outscored the Deacons from the floor with 15 field goals against 14, but as usual, points from the charity stripe proved the decisive margin.

Doug Neal, a Davidson student whose leg was broken in an automobile wreck last Friday near Danville, Va., is reported to be progressing satisfactorily. The party in which Neal was traveling was returning from a stag dinner given for his brother George. The accident occurred about one o'clock, the car overturning. Eyewitnesses said that the car rolled over ten feet more down a 20-foot bank into a railroad track. Neal was the only one seriously injured, the rest suffering from no more than a sprained back. The party was removed to a Danville hospital, from which they were released in time for the wedding.