»_ et C ll o S Professors ~ Vowles, Watts, Special Davidsonian Reporter, one Nothing much has been said O eg e ones Blythe, and Fleagle to Speak Talks to Woman Orchestra Ina Ray Compete With Sor Southern and about it lately on this campus, but iF d In Raleig n Leader: Western Schools ——— aA | —_ , 2 Feference to honorary fraterni- re isp aye G. R. Vowles, Dr. G. <B By C. SHAW SMITH The rifle team, during the past ties in a South Carolina college Vv Prof. F. , «gs i ‘ - yaper set us thinking about an old f David Watts, Prof. PL. Blythe, and Well-satisfied customers who week has had a very full schedule, . > > ok PF . . . - ‘ : . an - vovoblem., The question is this: Original Copies Lib avidson Prof. F. K. Fleagle, of the Day witnessed the performance in a having competed in a “six-way What of our honorary fraternity Songs in Library idson College Language department, Charlotte theater last Saturday of match with several western and ’ ‘cl ‘ h D ie : One of the most interesting ex- will make addresses at the annual the beautiful Blonde Bomb Shell of southern universities, which are: scheme here at Davidson: ‘bi i ine [Meeting of the North Carolina Rhythm, Miss Ina Ray Hutton Universities of Mississippi, T Th bl . hibits obtainable for all those in- A woe : Nn) + MIS ‘ yo : Hiversities of Mississippi, Tennes- € problem is not a very acute), og in Davidson College is now Modern Language Association in were perhaps wondering just how see. Wyoming, and Montana State one: most of the people we PT on display in the library—consist- Raleigh, Friday afternoon, March long she could continue to change College and Michigan State Col- § approached on the subject seemed to}, Pan ceri 1 18. , - those beautiful dresses she wore lege have included, ing of original manuscripts sheet Blythe Chai . ‘ Pech orm no very concrete ideas.) ie ote. for both “O, Davidson” |- Prof. Blythe stated that, as chair- the same dress twice. In a back ers in their quest for victory, shooting a 373 for the four positions. Perhaps the question was too general. Still it is one that concerns a large portion of the student body. There are also letters from E. H. Hamilton, ‘17, author of the words to "O, Davidson,” telling about that and giving some new words to the tune, composed by B. E. Shields, which words were to be used on other occasions besides football games. “O. Davidson" also appeared in an anthology of college songs. S. H. Science Books The Chemistry Foundation has also just given a series of four books to the library which are now on the shelves—"The Advance of Science," by Watson Davis, a complete record of advances on all fronts of science is presented here for the first time. Dr. G. R. Vowles will lead a symposium on “What Constitutes Good Teaching.” Teams Sent to Charlotte, Concord and Gastonia Three deputation teams were sent to Gastonia and Concord, while a speaker was sent to the Charlotte Place of the Y. M. C. A. to continue the weekly afternoon talks being sponsored there. Five students were members of the team which went to Gastonia, Stuart Oglesby, Sophomore: "I don't think that there could be too many honorary fraternities providing they are active. Many of our honorary fraternities are active and mean something to the students, but there are some dead ones that mean only more expense and another key to the student. These should not be tolerated.” Locke White, Junior: "All the honorary fraternities are worthwhile—if there are men who are actively interested in them. But lack of interest in many of them, due to the fact that their larger number spreads student interest very thinly over them all, makes me think some of them should be abolished." Dugald Stewart, Sophomore: "I think the honorary fraternities are one of the best things on the campus but some of them could be

Professors To Address Modern Language Meet

G. R. Vowles, Dr. G. David Watts, Prof. F. L. Blythe, and Prof. F. K. Fleagle, of the Davidson College Language department, will make addresses at the annual meeting of the North Carolina Modern Language Association in Raleigh, Friday afternoon, March 18. Prof. Blythe stated that, as chairman of the Spanish section of the association, he would be on the reception committee in Governor Fred Smith's Mansion from four to five, Friday afternoon. Prof. Fleagle will present a paper before the Spanish section on “The Widening Gap between Secondary Schools and Colleges.” This is expected to be followed by a general discussion of the topic. Dr. Watts will speak on "The Work of the North Carolina Chapter of the American Association of Teachers of French. Dr. G. R. Vowles will lead a symposium on “What Constitutes Good Teaching.”

Ina Ray Competes With Southern and Western Schools

By C. SHAW SMITH

Well-satisfied customers who witnessed the performance in a Charlotte theater last Saturday of the beautiful Blonde Bomb Shell of Rhythm, Miss Ina Ray Hutton, were perhaps wondering just how long she could continue to change those beautiful dresses she wore during the show without wearing the same dress twice. In a backstage interview with the beautiful and friendly blonde leader of the foremost all-girl orchestra of the country, she revealed, besides beautiful white teeth, sparkling personality and close-up all-around good looks, that she carries over thirty dresses with her on the road, and has a total of one hundred and fifty carefully stored away in the home town. Now we can see where this famous female's profits go and just how hard it would be to play the role of the supporting husband to her. However, if any Davidson gentlemen are interested in that part, Ina Ray’s ideal man would be, as she says, “a real he-man though he doesn’t have to be a truck driver. And I'd like for him to be very intellectual.” She smilingly refused to comment on mustaches but the smile was a help. This liker of he-men first saw her beauty and personality-plus! she appeared in George White's “Scandals.” then later in the “Follies” and now, after only four years with her all-girl orchestra, she has made a name for herself and her band that is known the country over. She has done work in night clubs, radio, one-night dance stands, pictures, and now is on a theatre tour that will soon take her back to New York City. Arriving there, she hopes to get a spot location, she said, smiling broadly, “Well. I thought the girls could play as well as the men, and now it seems the girls are beating the men.” In other words, business must be good, with her. That is one reason she likes the south. “It's goodder business.” was her statement. "And, too, the people in the south are very appreciative,” she added, again flashing that attractive smile which was all her own.

Rifle Team In Six-Way Meet

The rifle team, during the past week has had a very full schedule, having competed in a “six-way match with several western and southern universities, which are: Universities of Mississippi, Tennessee, Wyoming, and Montana State College and Michigan State College have included. Bob Theiling led the sharpshooters in their quest for victory, shooting a 373 for the four positions. Captain Springs Pharr was a close second with 365. being followed by Nunz with 359. Woodward with 358, Purdy with 354. Jonas with 347, and Hollifield with 347. This week the team will compete in another correspondence match with the University of Hawaii. The final outcome of this match, will not be determined for several weeks, as the scores of both teams have to be sent in and checked. Also during the coming week, the squad will participate in the William Randolph Hearst Trophy match. Special targets have been provided for this match and these targets must be completed by March 24 before the boys go home for the holidays. The winning team will get a championship medal.

Teams Sent to Charlotte, Concord and Gastonia

Three deputation teams were sent to Gastonia and Concord, while a speaker was sent to the Charlotte Place of the Y. M. C. A. to continue the weekly afternoon talks being sponsored there. Five students were members of the team which went to Gastonia, Frank Brown preached the evening sermon. Talks were made at the Young People’s meeting earlier in the evening by Monroe Wicker and Dick Kenyon. The musical division of the team was made up of Don Davidson, piano soloist and organist, and Robert Rosser, who played the violin.a little der Student Leaders of Charlotte, who is president of! Many Points Over Week-End at the initiation. Chapter guests Dance Saturday Night delegates will have an opportunity more active... I do —— Charlotte Merchants Association. During the week-end were: Brothers Reid Rahnson, Sud Brown, and Ovid Bell, Mark rena es ave an opt Ly not think that there For the past seven years college and president of Bridges Furniture The Beta brothers journeyed to several different places over the week-end. Charlie Pegram went to Greensboro, while Joe McLeskey and Julian Squires went to Charlotte. Bob Ramsay is on tour with the debating team and will return sometime this week. The ERC is planning in the future to have several prominent speakers who will talk on some phase of international affairs. Gilbert Palmer, Senior: I think that there are too many of these organizations on the campus at present, but I do not favor the organization of more. 

Dewitt Helms, who has been succeeded by such outstanding leaders as Albert MacClure, John Howard, Sid Marsh, and Roger Melton. This year the pastorship is held by Watson Street and acting as his assistant is Rod Williams. 

The responsibility for the stewardship of the church lies in the hands of the pastors and the Board of Directors. Under their guidance, the congregation and activities of the church have grown by leaps and bounds. The church service on Sunday alone is all right, but the majority of active fraternities are worthwhile and do constructive work, but others are more or less dead weight—the honor of being a member means no more than being entitled to wear a key. The standards for admission are usually reasonably high, but if there is any change, they should be raised. 

The Men's Bible Class has been a leading force in the church. Their class has not only drawn the interest of the men on Sundays, but their influence is seen in the life of the village. In January, they held a tree-chopping event coupled with a barbecue which was most successful. 

After the success of the Christmas Pageant with a cast of sixty members under the direction of Ivan Wetmore, plans are now in progress for an Easter Pageant. The script has been completed, which was written by the members of the church. It has over 100 parts and will survey the whole New Testament. It will be presented on April 17th. 

The church library is open for the community and on Wednesday night is held the Mid-week Church Service. 

The Davidson Glee Club returned on last Wednesday from a trip that was studded with good times and pretty girls. The boys visited Wilmington, Flora Macdonald, and Wadesboro in the course of five days, and even though much of the time was spent singing to night and daytime audiences, the members of the group always found time to have dates and otherwise have a good time. 

On Saturday night after traveling to Wilmington, there to spend the night. But none went to bed when they got there because there was a surplus of attractive girls running around trying to please the visiting boys. The beach was visited by many of the party that night, one of the notable incidents being Carey Dowd’s wading in the frigid ocean while all the gay young flirts stood around gasping with amazement at his bravery. 

On Sunday night after a very delightful banquet given by one of the Young People’s leagues of the First Presbyterian Church, there happened an incident that involved one of the more notable members of the party. John “Senator” Gilmore lived up to his name when he offered to help a heavily laden female figure into a waiting car. When he asked her in flowery language if he could assist her into the car, she turned around to him and said, “Naw suh, Boss, Ah thinks ah can make it right well, suh.” At that time, the Senator's stomach as well as his chest fell about three inches. 

Brothers Nick Nicholson and Charlie Smith attended the Founders Day dinner dance in Columbia Friday night. Brother Smith also attended the Presbyterian College dances during the remainder of the week-end. The informal initiation was held last Tuesday night. On the next night, Wednesday, the formal exercises were held. Dr. Curry and Dr. Lyon took part in the ceremony. Mr. Fred Bahnson of Charlotte, N.C. 

The group was reminded that the minutes and records of the society, which are valuable in historical importance, are preserved in the college vault in Chambers building. 

Major L. J. Meyns, Assistant Corns Area Ordnance Officer, arrived on the Davidson campus Tuesday afternoon to inspect the equipment of the Davidson ROTC unit. Major Meyns arrived on the campus in a government automobile from Atlanta, his headquarters. The purpose of his visit is to inspect the work done by the ordnance repair man while they were here. He will meet with the professor of military science and tactics, Col. John T. Rhett, and with Mr. F. L. Jackson to discuss storage facilities and similar matters of importance.