_ then should not continue their play.

Page Six
THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY, NOV. 23, 1938

Blythe Submits Set of Rules For Golf Course
Committee Urges Students To Become Acquainted With Regulations

According to a statement by Professor T. L. Blythe, the Golf Rules Committee has drawn up the rules for 1938-1939. The committee includes Professor Blythe and N. W. Shepard, Director of Physical Education.

New Rules
The committee wishes that the members of the student body who are planning to use the course would become acquainted with these regulations. The rules do not coincide altogether with the set of last year, so they are printed for your convenience:

1. No one should move or talk or stand close to or directly behind the ball or the hole when a player is making a stroke.
2. Slow players, or players looking for a lost ball, should allow other matches coming up to pass them; they should signal to the players following them to pass, and until these players have passed and are out of range.
3. Matches of more than four players are not allowed on the course.
4. A player may, without penalty, improve his lie on the fairway by moving his ball no more than one club length, and not nearer the green. The use of artificial tees on the fairways is forbidden, except when winter rules are put in force by the Golf Committee.
5. A ball in the rough must be played as it lies. If a ball be lost in or be deemed by the player unplayable, the player may either play his next stroke as nearly as possible at the spot from which the last stroke was played, or he may drop a ball on the fairway near the rough and no nearer the green. Penalty—one stroke.
6. A ball in a hazard, in a creek, or over a creek ledge, may be played as it lies. Or, if deemed unplayable, a ball may be dropped behind the hazard or creek. Penalty—one stroke.
7. If a ball lies out of bounds, the player shall play his next stroke as nearly as possible at the spot from which the last stroke was played. Penalty—one stroke.
8. If a ball lies or is lost in casual water on the fairway (any temporary accumulation of water which is not one of the recognized hazards of the course), the player may drop a ball without penalty within two club lengths of the margin, as near as possible to the spot where the ball lay, but not nearer to the hole.
9. If a ball, going toward a green, strikes a wire around the green or a post supporting such wire, or the power line or post on Nos. 5, 6, or 7 fairways, the player may replay the shot without penalty.
10. A ball stopping in or on one of the fairway terraces may be dropped on the near side of the terrace, without penalty.
11. A ball on the green may be moved for the purpose of cleaning it or smoothing the putting surface, except for the greens of Nos. 1, 3, 5, 7, or 9 fairways. A ball on these greens may be lowered to the edge of the putting slope without penalty.

Band Resumes Broadcasts To Continue Until Christmas

On Tuesday night, November 22, Davidson went on the air again; this time on her regular thirty-minute program. The program consisted wholly of music by the Davidson Symphonic Band and news of the campus by H. G. Kellog, Jr. The program consisted of the following: “O, Davidson!”, Shields; “Colonel Bogey” march, Alford; “The Barber of Seville Overture”, Rossini; News given by Kellog; “The Thunder March,” Sousa; “Chorale - Awake - Awake,” Bach; “Madamoiselle Modiste,” Victor Herbert; “American Patrol,” Meacham; Hymn, “Come, Thou Almighty King”; “O, Davidson!”

The band was conducted by Professor James Christian Pfohl, and was announced by Thane McDonald. Davidson will be on the air every Tuesday night from now until Christmas.

CONFERENCE GROUP
[Continued from Page One]

This committee will not have any administrative or disciplinary power; it shall be for the purpose of recommendation and conference only. Any student who wishes to meet with the committee of eight, or express any ideas which he may hold with respect to matters lying within the committee’s province, or to participate in the discussions, has the full right and privilege to do so. The students are asked to cooperate and help as much as they can to aid in the success of the measure. Quoting the President, “This measure is from the students, for the students, and for the betterment of relations between the faculty and the students.”

MILITARY TRIAL
[Continued from Page One]

John Doty will be the advisor of the court on all technical legal matters. Sam Hemphill will act as Recorder, and Tec Gaunt Waterson as Prosecutor. This mock trial by the senior battalion is the culmination of a six-week study of military law under Major J. L. Ballard. The court martial is conducted each year to give the graduating men experience in conducting a regular court martial. The charges and evidence will be aimed at giving the men practical experience.

SPONSORS FOR GAME
[Continued from Page One]

Charlotte; Tiny Waddill, Charlotte; and three others, yet to be announced. Fred Smith, Alumni Secretary, has been in charge of securing sponsors for each of the home games during the season. For the Beaver Club, he is assisted by Peggie Harrison, Charlotte.

WEEKLY SCHEDULE
Wednesday—Nov. 23.
5:00 P. M.—Glee Club Rehearsal.
7:00 P. M.—Scabbard and Blade meeting.
7:15 P. M.—Journalism class.
7:15 P. M.—Photographic Club.
8:00 P. M.—Alpha Psi Omega and Red and Black Masquers.
9:00 P. M.—Y. M. C. A. Cabinet meeting.

Thursday—Nov. 24.
7:15 P. M.—Social fraternities.
9:00 P. M.—Beaver Club.
10:30 P. M.—Student Prayer Meeting.

Friday—Nov. 25.
5:00 P. M.—Glee Club Rehearsal.
7:00 P. M.—Pi Gamma Mu.
8:00 P. M.—Alpha Epsilon Delta.

Sunday—Nov. 27.
10:00 A. M.—Sunday School.
11:15 A. M.—Church.
6:30 P. M.—Vespers.

Monday—Nov. 28.
5:00 P. M.—Glee Club Rehearsal.
7:00 P. M.—"D" Club meeting.
8:00 P. M.—Delta Phi Alpha.

Tuesday—Nov. 29.
7:00 P. M.—Philanthropic and Eumenean Literary Societies.
8:00 P. M.—Le Cercle Francais.
9:00 P. M.—Sigma Upsilon.
10:30 P. M.—Student Prayer Meetings.

FIJIS WIN
[Continued from Page One]

The Betas were beaten twice during the week, once by the K.A.s by the score of 6-0, and once by the Pikas also by the score of 6-0. The Pikas' score came when Joe Shelton grabbed a pass and ran over the goal. The Sig-Eps were definitely dropped out of the race by the Pi Kaps 2 first downs to 0. These two first downs were scored in the first half. The Sig-Eps played the K.A.s Friday for two extra periods, but the game was called on account of darkness and will be played off this week.

Once in a while, not often, a man is born who isn’t afraid. Then things begin to move.

STATE THEATRE
Mooresville, N. C.
Thurs.-Fri., Nov. 24-25
BROADWAY MUSKETEERS
with Margaret Lindsay, Ann Sheridan, and MarieWilson Sat., Nov. 26 (Double Feature) MAN’S CASTLE —And— WEST OF THE SANTE FE Charles Starrant Also a Serial Mon.-Tues., Nov. 28-29 SING YOU SINNERS with Bing Crosby and Fred MacMurray Drink a Quart of Milk a Day Drink Pasteurized Milk, It’s Safe MOORESVILLE CREAMERY North Carolina Mooresville, 1937 and was one of the best guards. They are both seeing plenty of service. “Bub” Coltrane is one of the junior captains of the basketball team, living up to Kappa Snappa’s reputation. Thankful People Come,” Elvey Smith, and have their likenesses preserved for posterity. The occasion is the first meeting of the class for the year, which took the form of a picnic on what is known as The Rocks, on the Catawba River. Songs were sung, wienies were roasted and devoured, and a general good time was had by all—including Fred and (Photo by Fred Smith) KAPPA SNAPPA BOASTS [Continued from Page Three] [Continued from Page Four] captain of the basketball team with the majority of the ’Cats. Peabody, who also made his letter three years in baseball. Jim Johnson was the Barium Springs boy who captured a fine attack track team in 1938, succeeded by who are living on housing Richmond athletes. George McClintock and Gales on the football field, while “Hayseed” Thomas is making a strong team. Bill Davis as usual will bear the brunt. Five ’Cat men are out with injuries at present; four of these will see service. Captain Dave Warden is laid up with an infected boil on his hand, Bill Beaty is still bothered with an ailing knee, as is Ned Iverson, Fred Stair has a hurt arm, and Harry Gasteiger will probably not see action because of internal injuries. These injuries make the ’Cats enter the game in the worst condition of the season, and are another reason the dopesters are picking Wake. collegiate football for thirteen years. Davidson first- was bought by Governor John Hill, who had heard of the strange prisoner, and converted to Christianity from his native Mohammedan faith. The purpose of stimulating business. as possible now on display, which was later presented to the Davidson Library, was secured by Governor Hill in order to promote the conversion. Offered his freedom, the Prince refused it, and was promoted to the position of head butler in the Hill household. He died a happy slave in 1859 at the ripe old age of seventy. CARNEGIE SET [Continued from Page One] to the foundation for several years for this gift through President J. L. McConnell. When completely assembled it will be opened to the public every afternoon, and any record will be played upon request. JOHNSON’S BARBER SHOP HENDERSON JEWELRY SHOP WATCH AND JEWELRY REPAIRING Now in Knox Building Davidson, N. C. Odorless Candies WHITE DRUG CO. DAVIDSON, N. C. “DAVIDSON'S OLDEST AND BEST” Thurs.-Friday., Nov. 24-25 THANKS FOR THE MEMORY Saturday, November 26 SHARP SHOOTERS Mon.-Tues., Nov. 28-29 ANGELS WITH DIRTY FACES Wednesday, November 30 SPRING MADNESS DAVIDSON THEATRE Davidson, N. C. Students Will Attend Convention At Greensboro Joe Johnson led a discussion on higher education at the regular meeting of the Davidson Hi-Y Club held last Wednesday night at seven fifteen in the Social Center. Locke White will lead a discussion on the importance of social contacts. The Davidson group under the direction of White and Dave Sprunt is still making plans to attend the convention for older Hi-Y members to be held in Greensboro Dec. 2, 3, and 4. As plans now stand the whole Davidson club will go and will be accompanied by representatives from Cornelius and Huntersville. The next meeting will be held this Wednesday in the same place. STUDENTS ENTERTAINED [Continued from Page One] fraternity with votes selling at one cent each. Miss Sally McDowell of Pacolet, S. C. received 727 votes, thus winning the title of Queen. Miss Sarah Thompson followed with 392 votes and was crowned Maid of Honor. The other girls nominated and presented in a grand march with their escorts were: Misses Keller Young, Winnie Stough, Ann Fuller, and Frances Ehrhardt. After the coronation, the party was brought to a close with an old-fashioned sing. Miss Helen Cumnock, president of the student government organization of Queens-Chicora, and Mrs. Virginia Miller Agnew, dean of women, were in charge of the arrangements for the party. Misses Sally McDowell, Frances Ponce, Jean Craven, and Katherine McQueen Martin made up the food committee. TRY-OUTS MONDAY [Continued from Page One] which is: “Resolved: that the United States shall cease to use public funds (including credit) for the purpose of stimulating business.” Publish On Colleges “College Town” To Be a Newcomer Describing N. C. Student Life “College Town,” a newcomer in the field of North Carolina publications, is slated to make its appearance next March, according to information received by Bill Marquess, editor of the Davidsonian. The new journal will deal solely with college and university life in the Tar Heel state and according to its motto, is to be, by, and for the students of North Carolina. By and For Students The idea originated among a group of students attending summer school in various institutions throughout the state. Feeling that there was a definite need for a publication expressing the distinctive tone of campus life in this state, they started the organization of “College Town.” This magazine will attempt to avoid any of the pretensions and generalizations of national college periodicals. The individual character of each campus is to be presented as well as their collective interests. Pictorial Section There will be articles about the colleges and students of this state, discussing unique and interesting features. A pictorial section will be devoted to a particular school each edition, and a popular sports writer will edit a section. It is the intention of the editors to present at least one outstanding personage a month. Leaders in politics, art, and education will be sought. Other features which will be included in the first issue are styles, reporter at large, cinema, the arts, fiction pieces, cartoons, humor, and others. Ease Dryness, Coughs, RASPY THROAT GIVE THROAT THIS MEDICATED BATH... Vicks Cough Drop dissolved in your mouth like candy, melts away dryness and irritation, soothes your throat passages. Vicks Cough Drops are medicated the way your Vicks VapoRub is medicated. Relieves coughing due to colds. A COMPLETE PRINTING SERVICE as near as your Telephone. For a representative call 3-3727 STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY ESTABLISHED 1907 CHARLOTTE, N. C. Always refreshing