Untermeyer Lectures Tuesday

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

The Davidsonian

Phi Beta Kappa Bids Announced

VOL. XXV DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., WEDNESDAY, MAR. 16, 1938 NO. 26

Fred Stair Elected Student Body President

Scholarship Fraternity Extends Bids To Seven

Gailey, ’37, Dorsett, Lafferty, Horine, Kiesewetter, Holt, Cates Bidden

Fred Stair, of Knoxville, was elected president of the Davidson College student body on the second ballot yesterday morning. Sam Spencer was made first vice president on the first ballot Monday. Election of second vice president and secretary-treasurer had not been completed as the Davidsonian went to press.

Stair went into office on a five-vote majority over Sam Newell and Bob McClelland, who also gained places on the ballot. The new president received 205 votes, while Newell and McClelland polled 116 and 84, respectively. Sam Spencer gained office by a comfortable margin of 288 votes.

The local chapter of Phi Beta Kappa, national honorary scholarship fraternity, has extended bids to one alumnus, J. H. Gailey, ’37, and members of the class of ’38, J. K. Dorsett, M. L. Lafferty, E. F. Horine, F. W. Kiesewetter, J. W. Holt, and W. M. Cates. Initiation of these members will bring the membership to fourteen, including seniors who are at present members, H. H. Hill, C. A. McKnight, W. W. Reinhardt, W. D. Sloan, and W. M. Wick.

This amendment, known as Section 5, was passed in the voting held last Friday to run these elections. The reason for this action, as explained by student body president, Teeny Lafferty, during chapel Saturday morning, was that certain groups on the campus had been exchanging votes, and that since this may have had a direct bearing upon the outcome of the ballots it was thought that the best thing to do was to begin the voting anew. These groups have now pledged to do no further exchanging, Teeny announced. He also said that the candidates left in the running had assented to the plan.

By the overwhelming majority of 320 to 6, the amendment to the Student Body Constitution providing for the freshman franchise was passed in the voting held last Friday. This amendment, known as Section 5, was proposed after the Student Council, after long-felt need had come to a head, by motion for the amendment was brought up for Monday's decision at a meeting of the student body. The amendment reads as follows: "All clauses in conflict with this amendment are hereby repealed." It is to be noted that the voting results were cancelled by the decision of the student council.

Dean Hudson and his Florida Clubmen will furnish the music for the four dances of the approaching spring set. Hudson has played for dances at Clemson and at P. C. during the last year, but this will be his initial appearance at Davidson dances.

The "Chicken" issue of "Scripts 'n Pranks" will be out by the end of next week, according to an interview last week-end with Editor Ryburn. This "Chicken" issue, dedicated to and honoring femininity at large, will be the largest issue to come out this year and will contain 32 pages, four more pages than any of the previous issues of this year. Short stories by Dick Vow and Chubby Wings will be featured in the magazine, and the results of the questionnaire, conducted by the editors to find the consensus of opinion of the student body as to future husbands, will be published. The poet's corner this time will contain several satires by Smith and the usual column, "Note To You" by Vadvles.

Louis Untermeyer, noted author and lecturer, will speak in Chambers auditorium Tuesday, March 22. Mr. Untermeyer, who has been lecturing at Davidson College, will be the guest of honor at a reception following his lecture.

Fred Stair, who was elected yesterday to head the Davidson Student Body and Student Council, will be installed April 25 if remaining elections are run off on schedule. The installation of Stair and other Student Government officers is planned for chapel on that day.

Lafferty, from Concord, has an average of 2.872. He is president of the Student Government of Davidson College. He is a member of Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity and Cadet Lieutenant-Colonel of the ROTC.

Horine, whose home is in Louisville, Ky., has an average of 2.844. He won a scholarship to Heidelberg in his junior year, and has since majored in German, having completed his academic work.

Kiesewetter, from Chalfont, Pa., has an average of 2.840. He is a member of Phi Gamma Delta, member of ODK, president of Forensic Council, and captain of the basketball team.

Holt, who lives in Greensboro, has an average of 2.797. He was chief cheerleader, a member of Phi Gamma Delta fraternity, and captain of the gym team.

Cates, from Jackson, Ala., achieved an average of 2.762 for the three years. He is president of his fraternity, member of the Student Council, and a senior speaker.

Sam Spencer had been elected first vice president, Charles Mashburn, second vice president; Fred Stair and Sam Newell had been left in the running for president; and Ed Watson and Bob Balsley for secretary-treasurer as a result of last week's voting.half years. He won the Alumni Association medal for his class. Mr. F. L. Jackson has recently been elected to Omicron Delta Kappa and is majoring in Greek. He attended the Omicron Delta Kappa Province convention at Jackson, Miss. Representatives from nine colleges and universities were present at the convention. Professor Ingle Cart, Professor of the University of N.C., was also present. Jackson was elected national president of the fraternity. The next province convention will be held at Washington & Lee University one year from now. A special committee has been appointed to arrange for an elaborate celebration at that time.

Eight members of the junior class were initiated into the membership of Alpha Nu chapter of Sigma. The last province convention was held a year ago in Atlanta, Ga. Tommy Dorsey, famed trombonist and orchestra leader, named Dean Hudson's band as “the best college orchestra I have heard in my tour of twenty-four larger colleges.” Miss Colwell has become well known for her solos and her work with the vocal trio. The administration has never given the slightest thought to any method of restriction.

The governor who graduated from the law department of the University of North Carolina in 1906 and received an honorary degree from the university at the centennial celebration, will speak at the celebration. The speaker will lecture on American poetry. His lecture is part of the Sesquicentennial celebration of the adoption of the Constitution of the United States. Dr. Or Moore, president of Davidson College, announced this Monday. He said that Governor Hoey would speak on “The founding of the nation” and the founding of the college. It is interesting to compare the growth of the United States from thirteen loosely-connected colonies to the great nation it is today, and Davidson’s growth from two small buildings, Oak Row and Elm Row, to the institution it is today. Governor Hoey will make his address at ten-fifteen, the regular chapel time.

At the regular meeting of the chapter Monday evening, March 14, Professor J. C. Bailey, member of the Greek department, presented a discussion on the history of medicine. Bailey spoke of the Greek physicians and emphasized their influence in this field. During the business meeting which followed this program, the Davidson chapter decided to send a delegate to the national convention of Eta Sigma Phi, which will be held at Columbus, Ohio, in April of this year.

Denver University co-eds have requested university authorities to provide chaperones for their fraternity and sorority house parties. But they have been told that etiquette says such functions are perfectly proper without benefit of chaperonage.

Approximately 100 teams from 11 states are entering the debate tourney sponsored by St. Paul's College of St. Thomas and College of St. Catherine.