CAT TALES By TONI CASALI DAVIDSON SPORTS: GRID PROSPECTS BRIGHTEN AS ’CATS WIN FIRST GAME WEDNESDAY, SEPT. 21, 1938. THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Four Wade and Burke Davis newspaper columnists, give their annual Big Five football predictions. We'll See You Saturday, Doc Wildcats Victorious run off with first place, Carolina second, North Carolina third, Wake Forest fourth, and Duke fifth. Davidson Chalks Up Win as Line Outclasses Light Brigade; Davis and Stair Lead Victory Drives Under Arcs By TOM CAUBLE Davidson Fighting Wildcats opened their 1938 schedule last Saturday night in Charleston by defeating the Citadel Light Brigade 12 to 6. The Wildcat backfield jumped to an impressive victory behind the brilliant play of their veteran line, led by Captain Dave Warden at tackle. Bill Davis, triple-threat quarterback, and Fred Stair, elusive halfback, shared scoring honors for the Cats. Davis scored the first touchdown in the second period through his right tackle, after "Po" McLean, starting his first game as varsity center, had intercepted a Citadel pass to stop the drive. Stair scored the second marker on the fourth down from the two-yard line after Bill Beaty and Bill Davis had smashed the Citadel line to ribbons, bringing the ball down the field. Graham Edwards scored the Citadel's lone marker in the third period after a series of passes had riddled the Davidson defense. Sixty Minute Men Davidson's football hopes received another blow as Archie Steed, U. of Tenn. Jr. College transfer, was declared ineligible because his school was not accredited by the Southern Conference. When Davidson and N.C. State clash Saturday night at the Memorial Stadium in Charlotte, three former assistants of Williams S. (Doc) Newton will open their bag of tricks against their former head, Gene McEver, Chet Chapman, and Parks Harrison. McEver became head coach at Davidson in 1937 when Newton went to head the State Wolfpack at Raleigh. Spearman, the fourth coach, is the only one who was not under Newton here. Davis’ Showing Bill Davis’ great performance, playing sixty-minute football, seems to be the man to carry on the Davidson tradition for great tail-backs. He follows such brilliant performers as Teeny Lafferty, Paul Pittman, and Johnny Mackorell in this position. Bill is also a good punter and a poised passer as well as a dependable safety man. It was extremely hard to pick individual stars in the Davidson lineup with the exception of Bill Davis’ great performance. The entire team played well as a unit. Particularly did the line gratify the coaches with great co-operative play. The renowned Wildcat spirit was clearly in evidence, being exemplified by the continued hard play of the Cats in spite of lack of substitutions. The Summerall Guards, crack Cadet exhibition platoon, drilled on the field between halves. Steed Ineligible Davidson's football hopes received another blow as Archie Steed, U. of Tenn. Jr. College transfer, was declared ineligible because his school was not accredited by the Southern Conference. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve back this season. He had shown up well in practice and was expected to perform as a reserve backRee M resnmen Oo CHS TANS yaad nearest (CHE oe tn cage iacaank Ve hie oral D A V I D S / ; y th : al : ae’’ tot the game except passing | at Me Hast week, Davidson's fighting. Wild ‘Cats made. 13 first downs to ne S a U D E N feet un TULPSGAY | cats will meet the potent Wolfpack | (- een c ny “ ! WWildkitte are eady to i c | | Citadel's 8, and gained 190 ards | M TeV ATTE IBY a ij | of State College Saturday night in| rushing cotheir onroiente: Or bell B O D Y : 1) anriptes oe a aren | Charlotte. [oe ‘ Be J : = : : \ Thirt tive One hundred and fifty eee ‘ HU Dael Neeisatsct Citadel completed seven pysses for : eRe ree Se eea ne : oach oc” Newton's boys are ce apeaibeanitc ives: Say Ag A : : rted. for prac-/ ar expected to enter the SUSIE Te eadatl He aevan uate tian 108 yards whil DEN ! connected Be st \\ ishes to its Hi ; a od, cake race Thursday afternoon, ceria ; j four times for 23 yards | a ‘ t competing for some forty different eae year’s surprise SE SLCSAUliy Davis Is Speamead | Ot ticers ( sae mena ‘ 1,,| Which won five, tied one, and lost] — pi py; aoe | ; i leav- zes awarded to nners on ae lees PENS Pe spite te Gane. aPLi Ital 1 avis, atter his brilliant triple hal teat f last vear Phe and eight-tenths course rr | h ahi ee apt 4 x buil FRED STAIR lu aie ‘i Five GimiLPe OU ReE re eR TIA vente | elm Ws years ack IS yuiit President t : ‘Wa, Wilner colin Guemetinn pale around Art Rooney, ebrilliant triple | ' Bere nel : COURSE CEG TIReR tina around ial ue who Wes eer, in | I N P E R S O N | e ney | State’s 6-2 tory over Davidso é 5 1 rl bac circuit which ends back at the gym | : roan me a naan phe] e ON THE STAGE e | aE GoEN OE : iiircns not more | Nasium | ee | WEDNESDAY - SEPT. 21 ONLY PAM SPENCER t t sick M4 150 | be faster The established record was made! | | Vice-President ; ‘ it n last year’s) ine 1935 when Dave Woodward and | : 10) : | ONE OF AMERIC#5 LEADING| > \ team is well} Boo Walker tied in a dead heat CA M ER AS BAND ATTRA‘TIONS e as \ Ie cn ho reserve} with a time of nine minutes thirty- ) rye 10 t it t i s i] lem a real) four seconds., Winners during the | hotogt aphic GEORGE CHARLES MASHBURN ; RECTAL eiy Nig ees Supplies HALL Vice-President ‘ : tel Micott, Cheney, REX RECREATION ; ye ‘A | PACKLES W. I. Van Ness.Co. Featuring i eMC TE : rdsare “made t dan, t. Hipp, Knoel 125-127 S. Tryon St : Seeretary-Treasure e Serreaietn ; ef ao vot North Tryon Dolly Dawn ; ie ; iene Billiard Bowling CHARLOTTE, N. C. AND THE DAWN PATROL Drop in and See Shows at 2:20-4:40 7:20-9:40 Marion CI Jack Full Screen Pro:y ; (eae are aes and George i | Starts Thursday, Sevt. 22nd e | IT’S A KILLER-DILLER! ° &“ Since 1874 | Freshman Clothes for the aed | Up-to-Date et iad fees | Y ” p-to eat | Car bala TOGETHER AGAIN! | College Man H H it _ 1 | A PAGE OUT OF REAL ot test} E i ; pate ¢ 4 5 sk ‘ | COLLEGE LIFE... Wiis Doing “The Yam! his institution offers every ae e° —with— a DIXIE DUNBAR a ae ornate WILLIAM LUNDIGAN . avis CROSS-TWILLS, . .A LITTL AS e modern banking facility oaine CONSTANCE MOOFE SOG A Bates rid inking facility gained | arion PLAIN WEAVES AND STRIPES “CAREFREE” | 4 Lyrics and Music by ; : Lacan ary ee | BROADWAY 205 &. TRYON See ; ° xHperience “ty “years arlotte, N. C. IRVING BERLIN from experience of sixty-four years | THEATRE CHARLOTTE Pictur i ; a MICKEY MOUSE Cartoon of successtul banking. | Siemens enter SSS Drapertown Peak 3 is nelegny, a new one with three 5c | buttons high stand... Anytime | | horizontal, pointed la-— AlRt e (5 ‘ | EC M pels and corded pock- CHARLOTTE, N. C. Commercial National Bank | WELC E ets. And to’ give you * | ; E Mthe final. touch” in c | fashion perfection, Var- Mon.-Tues.- Wed. CHARLOTTE, N. Cc; | ! ; ies DAVIDSO $27.50 to $35.00 fil Piety aaa IN TECHNICOLOR R.A DGNN—Chairm: L-W.STEW T ) EXTRA TROUSERS shigh back English drape Peeepekynas NG INING lairman ; : SWART, Pres. = $6.00 to $9.00 trousers. | We extend a cordial invitation to all Davidson students Vy A L L E Y | Scat AE | THACKER’S, Inc YOUNG MEN’S DEPT. — THIRD FLOOR (@ I AN T Ss” la | MY) 3 e = A Abe bl esata | F A U L & C R WW M E S I nc 221 South Tryon Street Opposite Johnston Bldg. Yicture ith | ’ . ALL STAR, CAST | as ‘ : | eo Sporting Goods e A GOOD PLACE TO EAT | — 41s SOUTH TRYON STREET CHARLOTTE, N. C. a S