Page Six THE DAVIDSONIAN

WAR WAGED
[Continued from Page Three]

The scientific method of arresting leprosy is by injecting shots of chaulmoogra oil into the patient. Sometimes medicine is used that makes the leper turn a vivid red or blue, and at the same time, it turns him into a most ghastly looking creature. It is difficult to experiment with leprosy because animals are not subject to the disease. The lepers in the Biederwolf Colony do all their own farming, carpentry, blacksmithing, raising of cattle, and fishing. There are community leaders among the lepers. The lepers usually elect the oldest male member as their head man. The head native doctor, Insoone, is a cured leper who came to the Colony when he was fifteen years old. Leprosy disfigures the body so much that society will seldom accept a man even when he is cured. The lepers are by no means all Christians when they enter the colony, but most of them become Christians later. They cannot understand why the head men in the Colony are so kind to them when all other men drive them away with kicks, stones, and clubs. The Korean pastor is not a leper but a trained minister. The teachers in the Bible classes and in the children's school are all lepers, however. These leprous people think that the Colony is the nearest thing to heaven that they can conceive. They have stone homes which they build themselves, and they lead a life similar to that of an average citizen of Korea once the disease has been arrested.

WADE LAUDS
[Continued from Page Three]

The officers of the group are J. K. Wilson, president; Dave King, vice-president; and Jim McDonald, secretary. Don Davidson is accompanist for the singers. Under the direction of Mr. McDonald, the organization has given several sacred services and one secular program. An unusually large congregation filled the historic old church for the service. The Little Symphony Orchestra was under the direction of James Christian Pfohl, head of the music department, and Dr. Albert Sydney Johnson, pastor of the Charlotte church, delivered the evening meditation. The Glee Club, as pictured above, is composed of thirty-two students. These two Davidson organizations rank among the best collegiate musical groups in the state. Last week they presented several numbers at a banquet of Good Fellows in Charlotte. On the secular programs given by the Glee Club, there are usually several numbers by the Glee Club’s quartet. It is made up of Jim Ballard, first tenor; J. K. Wilson, second tenor; Harper Beall, baritone; and Stuart Oglesby, bass. —(Courtesy Charlotte Observer).

FRAT BOWLING BEGINS
[Continued from Page Four]

The K.A.’s won by the score of 898 pins to 882. The Phi Gams won a close decision over the Sig-Eps, by the score of 883 to 868. The matches are run off with five men competing at one time for each team. Each of these

AMONG THE GREEKS
[Continued from Page Three]

The chapter spent the weekend in Charlotte and on the campus. A Christmas party is being planned for next Thursday night.

S.P.E.’s Hold Feed On Saturday Night
The chapter enjoyed an informal feed on Saturday night with the following girls present: Misses Christina Pfeifer and Sarah White of Statesville; Miss Lillian Sample, Charlotte McAden, Esther Lee Harris, Sybil Trexler, Anne Cromitie, Virginia Hickman, Helen Feehlin, Virginia Rich, and Sarah Kelley Lillard of Charlotte; and Miss Ella Keene Steele of Davidson. Brother Fred Harbin spent the weekend at his home in Statesville, while Joe Carver went home to Salisbury with Jim Thompson as his guest.Men bowl two games, and the total scores of eight games compose the final score. Intra-mural and inter-fraternity basketball will be postponed indefinitely until a suitable time can be arranged to run off the games. At present, there is no convenient time that the gym can be secured long enough to hold the games.

Sometimes you need more than appearance to lubricate the wheels of business.

The surest way to be happy is to get so busy that you have no time to be unhappy.

In one respect, men are like automobiles—self-starters are in demand.

Ernest Ellison
FIRE, CASUALTY, and MARINE INSURANCE
ERNEST ELLISON, Inc.
113-115 E. Fourth St.—Charlotte, N. C.
Robt. E. Ellison

QUESTION OF THE WEEK
[Continued from Page Five]

Certainly, the old plan would have more success as far as money is concerned, but I don't think that the men would mind being canvassed for such a purpose as the Christmas Gift Fund. Every year this fund is sponsored by the Y. M. C. A. board, and everyone expects to be canvassed and to contribute to it. The amount is not overemphasized, and I see no reason to change from the other plan. I think that to send a boy around to each room one time and ask him to give, explain the whys and wherefores of the cause, the project would meet with much more success.

Tomorrow's unfinished work is today.

LEM KORNEGAY

“RATCLIFFE’S FLOWERS BRIGHTEN THE HOURS”
Representatives: JIM THOMAS

Wednesday, December 7th, 1938

WATTS-GA. EMBROGLIO
[Continued from Page Five]

Tea Hounds signed George Richmond and “Black Dog” Hunter as coaches, and the Rats retaliated by announcing that they had secured the services of Fred Stair and Bob “One Foot” McClellan. The soft drink concession for the game was given to Wally “Elijah” Scherer. Bill Lemmon and Bob Reinhart, super salesmen of Watts, quickly announced a special on red and blue earmuffs for the respective partisans of the two teams. With this game looming on the horizon, practically all interest in the Rose Bowl was forgotten. Deluged by requests for tickets, the publicity departments of both dormitories were working night and day to get the ducats in the mail when the announcement of the cancellation came.

SPANISH FRAT MEETS
[Continued from Page One]

The Spanish department at the University of Chattanooga represented Davidson by proxy. This was favorably voted upon by the club, and the meeting was adjourned.

STATE
Wed., Dec. 7th
“GIRL’S SCHOOL”
ON THE STAGE———
“SHAVER’S DELUXE ENTERTAINMENT”

Thurs.-Fri., Dec. 8-9th.
“YOU CAN’T TAKE IT WITH YOU”
JEAN ARTHUR and LIONEL BARRYMORE

Sat., Dec. 10th.
TEX RITTER
“WHERE THE BUFFALO ROAM”
Owl Show—10:15 P. M.
“GARDEN OF THE MOON”

INTERWOVEN SOCKS—authentic regimental stripes, and modernistics, personalized gift styled by Hickok.

THE MEN’S STYLE STORE
Scotch Plaids,

FULL DRESS—College men should wear Fashion Park and Westminster Tails. It will be a real party Christmas in “white tie and tails.” You'll like the new high-waisted models.

CORRECT CRAVATS
BEAU BRUMMEL and BOTANY WORSTED TIES

SPORT SUITS—Styled by Don Richards of Hollywood. Distinctive style, excellent fit, trim appearance, and longer wear. These are the qualities that identify Marion Davis Clothes.

MARION DAVIS CO. invites the Davidson men to visit them before the holidays. We welcome you as friends. We are glad that we have the privilege of supporting your teams and being your neighbors.

NO-BELT PAJAMAS—cut on custom suit lines with no droopy shoulders or bow legs.

MARION DAVIS CO.
205 South Tryon Street
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

SHIRTS—College men know Manhattan. Both broadcloth and chambray fabrics.

SUITS—Styled for both sport and “dressy” occasions. Stop in and inspect their superb fabrics. You'll agree that Marion Davis Clothes give you more of what you want in a suit.

MARION DAVIS COMPANY