CAT TALES By TONI CASALI

With the end of the program just around the corner, the freshman teams are just beginning to hit their stride
and win consistently. Certainly during the past week, the Wildcats garnered more victories than defeats. The varsity tennis team will
wind up a successful season, in fact, one of the best enjoyed by Davidson in recent years. During the past
week, they added N. C. State, Wake Forest, and the Citadel to their long string of victories. Carolina and Emory
are the only schools holding victories over the net team.

The golf team, after having a good early season record, placed third in the state tourney last week, and dropped
a match to Carolina at the end of the season. Varsity baseball and track seem to be the only two
sports in which Davidson will not come up to expectations. The track team was hit hard before the season got
under way by injuries to Captain Wicker and Charley Sample, but they "came back” last Saturday with an overwhelming win
over the Citadel. Two track records were broken, and that can mean only one thing: that competition in this sport
was much tougher than usual.

Even with a lean season, competition has been higher this year. Baseball has certainly been tough, with Duke, Carolina, and
Wake Forest giving any Davidson team a run for their money.

Frosh Sports

Freshman sports are on the up for the first time in a long while. For instance, the first-year track team
has been conquered by no team so far this season, although they have a contested meet with the V. P.
I. Yearlings. Nick Schiltz, one of the best-looking prospects for next year’s varsity cindermen, has scored well over 10 points
in every meet so far. He does practically everything on the field. The rest of the frosh teams, baseball, tennis,
and golf, are having good seasons and winning their share of games and matches.

Also nearing an end is class competition and fraternity competition in the intramural fields. The juniors have practically clinched top
honors in the class tourney with the seniors running them a close second. The sophomores are not far behind the
seniors while the frosh are practically out of the running.

Varsity Golfers Are Third In State Meet

The Wildcat varsity golf team placed third in the state tourney this past week at the Sedgefield Country Club last
Friday. Entered in the tournament were all the Big Five schools as well as Catawba, Elon, and several other smaller
North Carolina colleges. Duke and North Carolina were the two teams finishing ahead of the Cats, in that order. Charlie
Pegram again led the Davidson barrage with a brilliant 75-76—151. The smooth-stroking sophomore finished well up among the leaders. Captain
Maples shot an aggregate 77-78—155. Jimmy Cooper, redheaded iron artist, finished with 81-82—163. Ben Pittman finished with 80-82—162.

The Phi Delts are leading the “greeks” in the inter-fraternity competition with a total of 601 points to their credit,
with the Phi Gams running second with 567 points. The SAE’s come next with 558, then the Kappa Sigs with
550, KA’s with 541, Pikas with 510, Sig Eps with 473, Pi Kappa Phi’s with 447, and the Betas in
last place with 332 points. Softball is the only remaining sport in which the frats will mix and this will
probably decide the winners for the year.

Tennis Team Tops State, Wake Forest, Lost Only to North Carolina

Davidson's varsity tennis team journeyed to Raleigh, Wake Forest, and Chapel Hill where they defeated N.C. State 8 to 1,
Wake Forest 9 to 0, and lost to Carolina 9 to 0. Saturday on their return home they defeated The
Citadel here, 7 to 0.

On April 25 against State, Davidson won all singles and doubles matches while Findley won the lone State victory over
Tenney and Kenney.

Results:
Tenney (D) over Reeves 6-0, 7-5. Frampton (D) over Murray 6-3, 5-7, 6-3. Kenney (D) over Findley 6-1, 6-0. Reinhardt
(D) over Smith 6-1, 6-0. Hunter (D) over Spear 6-2, 6-3. Jones (D) over Boney 6-3, 6-3.

Doubles:
Frampton and Reinhardt (D) over Reeves and Fleetwood 1-6, 6-4, 6-2. Hunter and Jones (D) licked Boney and Fanning 6-3,
6-2. Dulin and Findley licked Tenney and Kenney 6-2, 6-2.

On April 26 the netters made a clean sweep of Wake Forest, winning all of the matches without the loss
of a single set.

Results:
Singles:
Frampton (D) over Cahoon 6-2, 7-5. Kenney (D) over McMillan 6-4, 6-2. Reinhardt (D) over Lindsey 6-1, 6-1. Hunter (D)
over Davis 6-1, 6-1. Tenney (D) over Dickens 6-2, 6-0. Jones (D) over Hayes 6-2, 6-0.

Doubles:
Frampton and Reinhardt (D) licked Cahoon and McMillan 6-1, 9-7. Kenney and Tenney (D) licked Jones and Lindsey 6-4, 6-4.
Hunter and Davis licked Dickens and Hayes 6-2, 6-1.

Results:
Singles:
Foreman over Hunter (D) 4-6, 6-0, 6-2. Strain over Jones (D) 6-0, 6-1. Farrell over Tenney (D) 6-4, 6-3. Rawlings
over Kenney (D) 6-3, 6-4. Rood over Frampton (D) 6-4, 6-4. Henderson over Reinhardt (D) 6-1, 6-0.

Doubles:
Rood and Farrell licked Hunter and Jones (D) 6-4, 6-3. Strain and Rawlings licked Frampton and Reinhardt (D) 6-1, 6-0.

(Continued on Page Six)

INVISIBLE RE-WEAVING SERVICE
Burns and Tears Rewoven
501 INDEPENDENCE BLDG.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

The Davidsonians were beaten in the eighth when the Belmonts scored 16 to 7. The frosh played Belmont Abbey and
Cornelius High, losing the first to Belmont Abbey 4-3 and beating Cornelius High 16 to 7.

Frat Standings

The juniors have practically clinched top honors in the class tourney with the seniors running them a close second. The
sophomores are not far behind the seniors while the frosh are practically out of the running.

The Phi Delts are leading the “greeks” in the inter-fraternity competition with a total of 601 points to their credit,
with the Phi Gams running second with 567 points. The SAE’s come next with 558, then the Kappa Sigs with
550, KA’s with 541, Pikas with 510, Sig Eps with 473, Pi Kappa Phi’s with 447, and the Betas in
last place with 332 points. Softball is the only remaining sport in which the frats will mix and this will
probably decide the winners for the year.

Tough Luck

Williams, although he did not place in the Penn relays last week, put on an excellent show. Bailey came in
sixth with a throw of 144 feet, but a misunderstanding only took 70 feet in the Chunker. Eddie Ramseur, N.
C., is one of Davidson’s most dependable starters.

Sigma Delta Psi To Hold Yearly Tryouts

Page Four

Davidson Cindermen In Win Over Citadel By Impressive Score

Weight Men Main Point Getters in 82-49 Victory — Captain Wicker Again in Uniform — Barrow and Walker Lead ’Cat
Scorers

State Leaders Hold Wins Over Each Class; Sophs Second

The junior class took an outstanding lead in the tourney so far. Seniors, juniors, and sophomores are leading in their
respective classes.Two for two current softball Davidson's returned Friday. Davidson and Wake Forest at that point during the past week
as Davidson won four and lost one. Carolina, the leaders, hold victories. Batteries: McI® all classes but have suffered Fitzgerald,
Kellam; loss to the sophs who are in second place with a record of three varsity from and an, baseball
100 000 000 16 020 000 11x 411 010 000 140—6 6 412 000 04x—11 Thomas Parker Duke Again 17
and Cat Nine Wins Over Clemson. Lose to State, Carolina, Duke, nine a most disastrous road trip on which they
lost four games, but took one from Clemson on Monday. Norton of The Citadel in the brilliant time of 9
minutes 59 seconds. The 'Cats journeyed to State last Monday week and dropped the game 1-4. Eddie Steere handled the
mound duties for Davidson and gave up eleven hits while his mates could collect but six. The lone 'Cat marker
came in the first when Hand walked and scored on Kellam’s triple to centerfield. In the second inning the "Pack
scored twice on three hits and a double steal. Later the took second in the low and Walk D> burrows
high hurdles with Rader injured star hurdles to push Barrow er for high point honors and of Citadel the day
high with ten points. Jones were scorers for each. The summary: 100 yard dash: Wilson (D) second, third. Time 10.3,
220 Barrows (C) first, second, Wilson (D) 440 yard dash McAlpine (D) (D) third. Time (Gye tinsts ond; Hickman Zid
aviile Parcell (D) second, La Forde third, Time 4:37 Norton (C) second, Wellog 9:59. Shot put (C) second, Burrows (C)
first, Hughes (C) yard dash (D) see Time 23:2 C@yeaiingts Hickman S880 yard run Walker (D) third. Walker (D) Barrow
third. Jones second, ple, Jones (D) second. Time run: first, (C) Two mile run: Woodward (D) (D) third. Time Crisp
(D) first, Sa- Warden (D) 42 feet 1 3-4 inches. Pole Fort (D) first, Hughes (C) Gammon (D) third. 11
feet jump: Boyd (D) McClin inches first, Dados third, vault: second, 6 inches. Broad Hughes (C) (D) Discus: Iverson ard
(C) second, feet 2 inches, first, second, 21 (D) first, Blaneh Boyd (D) third, 113 Javelin: (D) tock third, feet
3 Johnson first, Sabados (C) second, Duncan (C) third. 169 feet 1 inch. High Jump: Cowan (D) and Duncan (C)
tied for first; Black (D) and Iy and two losses. Duke's Blue Devils clipped the third position is held by
the senior class who have won two and (Continued on Page Six) three. The frosh are in the spot as
a result of four losses to one win. Athletic Frat closest game of the week the senior-junior game which the
latter won by one run. The seniors held a three-run lead until the next to last inning when the winners
got four runs and won the day that Sigma Delta Psi tryouts would be renewed this week. A great many
athletic fraternity hopefuls are expected out to attempt the rigorous routine of athletic achievement. Members of the society are: Tom
Abbott, Jim Wilson, Bob Benefield, Charlie Sample, Bill Hickman, Dave Sprunt, Baxter Wilson, Milton Crisp, Ned Iverson, Bill Boyd, Charley
Parker, Boo Walker, Leonard Fort, Bruce Parcell, and Nick Schiltz. Schiltz has been the only man so far this year
to pass the requirements necessary for membership, although several new men have partially completed their tests. A 3,000-acre forest is
the classroom for the Utah State Agricultural College's summer course in education. Standard Programs, Prompt Service PRINTING Company 117 Garland
Court Charlotte, N. C. PRINTERS EXTRAORDINARY to SCHOOLS and COLLEGES SEND US YOUR Booklets, Folders A COMPLETE PRINTING SERVICE Reasonable
Prices Brinson’s 83 to take 3 more for State Netmen the high school. In the second foursome, Abels of Davidson,
shooting a 77, and Stroupe, hitting a low Davidson's freshman track team won its fourth straight victory of the season
Friday when it defeated a strong Presbyterian College freshman team, 71 2-3 to 45 1-3. The Wildkittens led the meet
all the way over the Blue Stocking and although they were expecting a very close meet they went ahead to
win by a good margin. Nick Schiltz again was high for the meet with a total of 18 1-3 points.
“Slick” Hanes led the P.C. scoring with firsts in the mile and half mile and a third in the javelin.
His times of 4:50 in the mile and 2:06 in the half were excellent for freshman competition. Previous to this
meet the Kittens have had wins over Wofford freshmen, Barium Springs, and a debated win over Virginia Tech freshmen. At
Blacksburg, the Techlets won the regular meet but had to forfeit the relay, thereby giving the Wildkittens the meet. The
P.C. freshmen swept all three places in the shot put for a large share of their total points. The middle-west
is the most tolerant section of the U. S., according to Elton Sakamoto, a Japanese Sioux Falls College student who
has traveled widely in this country. The average co-ed spends more on refreshments and entertainment than she does for cosmetics
and beauty treatments. forestry goes hand-in-hand with a keen appetite and tasty food! Could anybody ask for more? Yes... that
tingling, delicious taste of ice-cold Coca-Cola, la ed dad Delicious with good things to eat and Refreshing (Continued on Page
Six) CAMERAS Photographic W. I. VAN NESS CO. Supplies 1 North Tryon—Charlotte, N.C. through College! GEORGE BURNS ALLEN MARTHA RAYE
BOB HOPE! Edward Everett Horton-Ben Blue - Jackie Coogan Florence George John Payne Directed by RAOUL WALSH —Charlotte’s Most Popular!—
