WEDNESDAY, JAN. 12, 1938 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Three

Dr. Foreman Is Speaker In Charlotte
“Rubbing Off the Price Mark” Is the Subject of Dr. Foreman’s Talk

Dr. Kenneth J. Foreman was guest minister Sunday at the St. Paul Presbyterian Church of Charlotte. He also spoke to the Young People during the Sunday School hour. Dr. Foreman took as his text the 24th verse of the 24th chapter of 2nd Samuel: “The King said, I will buy it of thee at a price, neither will I offer burnt offerings to the Lord my God of that which doth cost me nothing.” The subject of his sermon was “Rubbing off the Mark.”

Five items foster the religious life, listed by Dr. Foreman—prayer, Bible study, church attendance, contributing, and serving. “These,” he said, “are not religion in themselves, but the way that they are entered into determine largely the degree of one’s religion. If we put no thought into our prayers, if we give only fragments of time to the Bible, if church attendance is a chance thing and giving is haphazard and serving is done only for the reward it carries, then we have a cheap brand of religion, and no matter what price tag we mark on it, in time of stress it will show up cheap.”

“We can't fool God. We even fool ourselves. So long as we shop on the bargain counter for our religion it will be a superficial thing; but if we pay the price, our house of life, with Christ as the foundation, will withstand all of the storms.”

Death Rode Here Saturday Night
Pictured here is the car in which two local negroes rode to their death late Saturday night. Three others were seriously injured as this 1929 Chevrolet sedan stalled on the Southern railroad tracks near the station, and was struck by a southbound freight train a few moments later. (Photo by Wallace Marley, '40). (Courtesy Charlotte Observer)

Train Kills Two At Crossing Here
Two Negroes Killed and Three Others Injured in Train Wreck Here

Two men are dead and three others injured as the result of a wreck involving a freight train and a car on the crossing near the Davidson station last Saturday night at 10 P.M. Ronald Elmore, of Davidson, was killed instantly and Mutt Brown, of Huntersville, died shortly after while on the way to a hospital. The other three, Gene Derringer, George White, and Anna Mae Johnson, all of Davidson, are in the Good Samaritan Hospital.

According to witnesses, the party of five, all negroes, were out for a ride and were crossing the tracks near the station when the car stalled on the track. A few seconds later, the train collided with the car, throwing all the occupants out. The car, a 1929 model Chevrolet sedan, was completely demolished.

Heath is well known at Davidson, where he has worked for several years. He is one of the school janitors. Brown had been employed for several years in the Huntersville Sanitorium.

Scholarship Will of Frank P. Tate Sets Up $5,000 Fund

The will of the late Frank P. Tate, of Morganton, provides that $5,000 be set aside for the establishment of a new scholarship at Davidson College. The new scholarship will bear the name of the Colonel Samuel McDowell Tate Scholarship, in memory of Mr. Tate’s father, a leader for the South in the Civil War, and active in civic and state affairs.

A member of the class of 1888 at Davidson, Mr. Tate died in Morganton last December 24 as a result of a heart attack. He had lived his entire life in that city, having been born there in 1867. The will further provides that a bequest of $500 be made to the trustees of the Montreat Assembly to be used in the furnishing of Assembly Inn as a memorial to Mr. Tate's mother. A like amount will be given to the furnishing of a room in the same inn as a memorial to Mrs. Tate, an aunt of Mr. Tate.

New Concerts

Three more concerts have been booked by the Davidson College Concert Series. It has been announced that Julian DeGray, a member of the Bennington College in Vermont, will give a lecture piano-concert here February 1. Prof. DeGray expects to remain in Davidson for several days in February. He will speak on education and discuss many of its problems.

A unique program is billed for March 8. James Gillette will present his Chamber Orchestra. A feature of the program will be several numbers on the new Hammond electric organ. The final concert will be given by the Chicago Little Symphony Orchestra.

All students are urged to attend these concerts. The series is growing in popularity and offers a variety of entertainment.

New Driveway

For the past few days, workmen have been busy constructing a new road across the Davidson campus. This road will connect the north driveway of Chambers Building with the road which passes by the stadium and enters the Concord highway. The purpose of this road is to provide a bypass for the drive in front of Chambers. It is also hoped that this outlet will provide more parking space for students. The road is being constructed of topsoil and gravel.energy: oa. (g Part (H 1 4 1 OOO da

DUKE UNIVERSITY SCHOOL OF MEDICINE
DURHAM, N. C.

Four terms of eleven weeks are given. These may be taken consecutively (graduation in three and one-quarter years) or three terms may be taken each year (a total of four years). The entrance requirements are character and at least two years of college work, including subjects specified for Grade A medical schools. Catalogues and application forms may be obtained from the Dean.

Quality With Economy
SOUTHERN 5¢ & 10¢ Store

Freight Train Faculty Has Luncheon for Dean of Princeton

“Oscar” Passes After Sudden Heart Attack
Faithful Janitor Saw Twenty-Four Years of Service at Davidson

Oscar Irler, janitor at the college since 1914, died here last week from a heart attack. Oscar was a native of Denmark, South Carolina. Previous to his position at Davidson, he was employed at Montreat. In 1925, Oscar Dormitory, which is probably the most popular dormitory at the college, was named after him. In 1925, the administrative offices were moved to Chambers and Oscar was transferred there. Oscar's duties included carrying the mail, ringing the bell, taking care of the offices, running the mimeograph machine, and other miscellaneous demands upon his time. He died Thursday night at 6:30 immediately upon entering his home after the day’s work. His funeral was held here Sunday morning at the colored Baptist Church, of which he was a member and an officer, and after the services, his body was taken to Denmark for burial. Several members of the faculty attended the funeral, and an honorary delegation of janitors accompanied the family and others to South Carolina.

College men who are able to apply abstract knowledge to a concrete problem are in demand at the New York police academy.

Caleb F. Gates, Assistant Dean of Princeton, Is Entertained Here

Caleb F. Gates, Jr., assistant dean of Princeton University, was entertained at Davidson Monday by about a dozen members of the college faculty at a luncheon in the visitor’s honor. Mr. Gates was accompanied to Davidson by Dr. Ore Moore of Charlotte. After the luncheon, he returned to Charlotte, where a dinner was given for him Monday night by the Princeton Alumni Association of the Carolinas, which has about 225 members. At the dinner, he discussed educational problems in the Carolinas today.

The loudest voice ever spoke! Even after such throat-taxing scenes, ANN SOTHERN finds Luckies gentle on her throat.

“In ‘SHE'S GOT EVERYTHING’, my new RKO-Radio picture,” says Ann Sothern, “there’s a scene where the girl gets married on a jolting truck, and it turned out to be a knockout! ...But for me, as an actress... even after this throat strain, I enjoyed Luckies! Imagine doing it 30 times! Yet, Luckies are still gentle on my throat. They're the best for me.”

“NOW AS REGARDS TOBACCO... Luckies’ flavor has always appealed to me very much. So I was interested to read recently that Luckies are the favorite cigarette among the experts who know best. Auctioneers, buyers, and warehousemen must be able to judge tobacco at a glance. Sworn records show that among independent experts, Luckies have twice as many exclusive smokers as all other brands combined. With experts, it’s Luckies 2 to 1.”

Davidson Men Attend Missions Conference
Atlanta Site of Three-Day Conference; Fifty Davidson Men Attend

Fifty Davidson students were in Atlanta, Ga., December 28 through 30th for the World Missions Conference for the Young People’s League of the Presbyterian Church. This was the first conference of its kind. The speakers and leaders of the young people were Dr. John Mackay of Princeton and other prominent members. The various delegates were kept in the homes of Atlanta during the conference, where they were given the best accommodations and lodging. Dinner and supper were a part of the delegate’s expense.

THEATRE
Mooresville, N. C.

Thurs. Fri. Jan. 13-14
“Vogues of 1938”
With Warner Baxter and Joan Bennett

Mon.-Tues. Jan. 17-18
“Merry-Go-Round of 1938”
With Mischa Auer and Bert Lahr

HOLLY SMITH CAMERAS
Cameras and Photographic Supplies
106 S. Church—Phone 3-4302
Just A Step Off Trade Street

Have You Heard the Chant of the Tobacco Auctioneer?
Listen to “YOUR NEWS PARADE” 12:15-12:30 P.M. MON. thru FRI, CBS
“YOUR HOLLYWOOD PARADE” WEDNESDAY, 10-11 P.M., NBC
“YOUR HIT PARADE” SATURDAY, 10-10:45 P.M., CBS (Eastern Time)