Page Six THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, FEB. 2, 1938

Mrs. Smith Voted Life Member of Phi Society

Unanimous Vote Makes Mrs. Smith Honorary Life Member of Phi Society

Philanthropic Literary Society set aside laws this week to admit Mrs. Smith as an honorary life member. The recognition was
given to Mrs. Smith for her literary contributions. Mrs. Smith's membership was met with unanimous approval.

Examinations Climax Term

Your Film Question Justification

BAILEY DEPUTY (Continued from Page 1)

The first of these sessions is to be held at the College Newspaper Conference. The topic is “Liberal Arts Colleges.”
Medical, engineering, and theological education are among the topics to be discussed.

By HENRY B. BAKER

Editor’s Note: Because of the universal appeal of this article, we are producing it in this issue.

Is a college newspaper justified in its existence? That question appeared at a directors’ meeting of the Illinois College Press
Association in Champaign last weekend. When a newcomer walks into a college, he notices the atmosphere immediately and takes steps
to remedy it, whereas the other occupants had grown accustomed to the impurity and did nothing. So we ask, is
a college newspaper justified in its existence?

Editorials are almost useless; news stories on abstract subjects and problems are almost impossible whenever they have any appearance of
possible weightiness. When a newcomer walks into a college, he notices the atmosphere immediately and takes steps to remedy it,
whereas the other occupants had grown accustomed to the impurity and did nothing. So we ask, is a college newspaper
justified in its existence?

The far-reaching implications of this question will be discussed by prominent speakers, including Dodds, president of Princeton University; Dr. Wilbert
C. Davidson, president of Duke University; Dr. Howard W. Odum, sociologist at the University of North Carolina; and Dr. Isaiah
Bowman, president of Johns Hopkins University.

Thursday, Feb. 3

“ALCATRAZ ISLAND” — John Litel, and Ann Southern

This sounds like the usual prison fare, with a lot of exciting gun battles and jail breaks centered around the
federal penitentiary Alcatraz. All I know about it is what I've seen in the previews at the local theaters, and
they seem plenty exciting.

If such a thing is true, then the only real reason for a paper would be to keep alumni subscribers
informed and to enable the more notable collegiate figures to see their names in print. Backing away from this discouraging
thought, it does seem to me that the paper should have some worthwhile contribution to make.

Smug Circles

At this above-mentioned conference, business woes slide for the moment. Republican forces declare that the proposed crop control bill will
amount to virtual dictatorship over agriculture. The bill would provide for fixing marketing quotas on various staples, corn for one,
with penalties for failure to comply.

NEW GROUP

“LOVE IS A HEADACHE” — Gladys George, Franchot Tone

A newly released comedy concerning a Broadway star who is accused of kidnapping two children. Her life is complicated by
Franchot Tone, who is a newspaper reporter that gets tangled up in the situation.

KING FOR A DAY

(Continued from Page 1)

Though he was not prepared to make public their names until their arrival, Prof. James Christian Pfohl, director of the
music department, has been granted a leave of absence in order that he may continue his studies at the University
of Michigan during the spring term.

Saturday, February 5

“HIGH FLYERS” — Bert Wheeler and Robert Woolsey

Once again, I know practically nothing about it. One critic gave it a long and evaluative review.Here is the cleaned
OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

tee sare, so I will take a chance and do the same thing: LORE Re * * * * *
* Davidson President ths Invited Mon. & Tues. Feb. 7-8 To Speak at Princeton ow Students Relieved to Finish the
Ordeal Who doesn’t feel relieved after t 1 | r We / gl ath oe 1) i +7 \ t
AMONG THE GREEKS Continued from Page 5) Jim Morton Returns To Visit Chapter D I] | ; 1 ] tee
ur ( 1 ai B ( t \ and | Ie ] n Bessemer ( Hie I 1 Walter Fitzgerald
in Charlotte after the exam period. John Hay and Bill Hamilton traveled to Rock Hill, S.C., to visit at Winthrop
College over the weekend. Ed Watson of Charlotte, visited at his home. 1 Wal | raeiden Spencer Tracy, Alan Curtis
| ; i} and Frank Morgan. | \ ( t l has re- ; 1 from Chicago, \ dramatic, romantic,
hum} vay again next week on|story of two people seeking happi |’ ‘ Ni) Phere | ness th the wld
against them. | ' dd tl t ind | This picture shows how a common e) logi how-girl rises from
a New York > tenement house to a multi-million ; enthouse She gets fed up al 56 l re VA
von | Olt Poverty, accept a superficial fail her, and then finds ; 1) }love. Tracy is a man who
loses ( ind r , 1 a fortune to learn what her love t grout Hern is : ' ee
can in s ~ chu : * * * * * * 8 1 Febr 24, Dr. Ling! —COMING— to
return to Princeton to ; ; “THE BUCCANEER” — A four- tir the Western t P Dunehuret \I star picture
to be reviewed t esbyterian Al- A Disc gathering et A in this column next week. wa ig is con
S. | (CIN IRS) Orr REN‘ M. P. Henderson GULF GAS & OIL CONTEST OPENS | outside “MANNEQUIN” — Joan
Crawford, | * cocoon, in Y : a af (Continued from Page Five) se ; ; aC ys » 8&"V
cisco, Cal., or Rolfe Humphries wry Fi rhage by au Sanka League of American Writers, 381 pe shart > sive
Fourth Ave., New York City. Presbyterian Church in Amer | in t talk ona BUFF SHOE SHOP t lat ‘
Speed Precision tO) Quality ( i iis one 5a ff ee hal) O. F. Buff, Prop. nt | vie J
Ee VASits ae d v ’ Ving > | DRUG STORE Prompt and Efficient Service Magazines - fountain Pens ‘Toilet
Articles “Davidson’s Oldest and Best” WHITIE lfor DAVIDSON THEATRE ae Oa WEDNESDAY —FEB-2— Change of Heart PHURSDAY—FEB. 3 Alcatraz Island
FER. 4 Love Is A Headache FRIDAY SATURDAY—FEB. 5 High Flyers TUESDAY—FEB. 7 & 8 MONDAY & Mannequin WEDNESDAY—FEB. 9—
Buccaneer } encg.one | the | break their smug little Still, thought. of the there is a comforting assembled speakers
exhorted | oo campus cir-| editors to strive cle of happenings and to present | DANCE SET TO FEATURE (Continued
from Page 1) be carried out with red white the predominant colors. The College Pharmacy has one of that world.
One; of its windows ‘decorated with Mid- own themes is that of the} Winters as its theme. students’ lack of
interest in| the When he like emerging from rences and trends of the World out- Hib: will and That seems
logical if the students of today are going to be useful and | of my Replicas of badges of the
nine fraternities affairs. emerges | On the campus and pictures of Ber from school it i igan and Gail Reese
adorn the win- | dow which they (Continued from Page 2) Twinkletoes week-ended all week save one day in Concord
.. . Black Dog, the great lover, loved 'till 1:30 P. M. Monday ... A great man “When the end
came, I was ready.” He could say that if he wanted to, couldn’t he? MED STUDENTS SCATTER (Continued from Page
3) once said: will come the two years of internship, atter successful completion of will be licensed as doc- |
tors. BAND TO PLAY (Continued from Page 3) nington College faculty, will be here February 14-16, giving a piano con
the of the 16th. Mr DeGray is being sent by the Asso- of Colleges cert evening American and for informal
re- and discussions of education- cation will be available citals als problems. ALLIANCE FRANCAISE (Continued from Page 5) lecturers come
to Charlotte first official meeting of the is to be held in February. Dr. Watts has been elected chair the
The group man of ways and means committee. Tm DNL UAAMAA AVA $3.50 Up “TIGER” TERRY JOHN HORTON .my good
reason or smoking Aesterfields I find they give me more pleasure than any cigarette I ever smoked. And if a
man isn’t getting pleasure from his cigarette he might as well quit smoking. Chesterfields are milder they've got a taste
that smokers like . . . they have everything to give a man MORE PLEASURE. Copyright 1938, Liccetr & Myers
Tobacco Co, Weekly Radio Features LAWRENCE TIBBETT H ANDRE KOSTELANETZ Paut WHITEMAN DrEMs TAaytor Paut DouGtas Chesterfield OY Calif Leas,
Om
