By TONI CASALI

Davidson's varsity cindermen got off on the wrong foot last Wednesday when South Carolina nosed them out in that last relay, a nip not decided until the affair's end. This race proved to be one of the most exciting events witnessed on Richardson Field in recent years. “Popeye” McAlpine put the ‘Cats a few yards ahead, and Jim Cowan, in turn around the oval, kept the good pace up only to lose the lead in the last few yards. Bill Hickman, knowing victory or defeat depended upon him, gave all he had to pass his man who was spotted a 10-yard lead. However, Knight was not to be outdone and overtook Hickman in the home stretch to win the relay and also the meet.

Bill “Tortoise” Telf also provided the fans with plenty of excitement in the two-mile run. After eating the Gamecocks’ dust for seven trips around the track, Telford caught him and in the last ten yards edged ahead to cross the line and garner a well-earned point to add to the ‘Cat total.

Stars Out

The 'Cats sorely missed the services of Captain Monroe Wicker and Charley Sample, who are both out of the lineup nursing injuries. With these aces in the lineup, the ending would have been a different story without a doubt.

Rain halted the varsity baseball games scheduled for the past week. However, the Philadelphia Athletics, begging your pardon, I mean the Duke Blue Devils, will meet the ‘Cats in a slugfest here Thursday. From all indications, the Devils will present a lineup that is second to no college team, and certainly, they have plenty of batting power. If the 'Cats manage to edge out a win, they'll have to play them “Yankees af.”

The frosh nine got off to a good start last week when they handed a scrappy Lincolnton a neat setback, but they certainly showed a reversal of form in the game Monday when they committed a total of eleven errors against Greensboro High School. Edmondson, Reinhardt, Niven, and Montgomery all look good and will undoubtedly play some for the varsity next year.

Volleyball

Interfraternity volleyball is enjoying much popularity among the student body. Practically every “Greek” was on hand to watch some close battles on the courts last week. So far, the Pikas are leading the pack with no defeats chalked up against them. With “Bull” Durham as their main “goon,” they have a practically unbeatable combination, although other teams have given them close games.

There will be plenty of sports happenings on the campus during the next few days. Two varsity baseball games are scheduled, one with Lenoir-Rhyne on Tuesday and one with the Duke nine on Thursday. The tennis team will meet Elon here Friday and then will play host to North Carolina State the next day. The Kitten nine will take on the Central High baseballers here Tuesday, and the following day the varsity nine will meet Wofford. Let’s all get out and get behind the boys in these contests and show them that the old spirit is still around.

Rambling notes... Catawba collected a total of 19 hits and 24 runs against the ’Cats in their meeting last week. That sounds like major league baseball. Due to ineligibility, one of the best ball-hawks on the campus is out of the Davidson lineup. Russ Hellekson, who can play almost any position on the diamond, won't be able to play until next year because he attended another school last year. Davidson's fine net team has lost only one match so far this year—that being an upset at the hands of Emory. They have been on the winning side eight times. Bailey Williams came pretty close to breaking the college record for the discus in the South Carolina meet—he tossed the oval a distance of 136 feet, 8 1-2 inches.

The Davidson kitten golf team, after playing a nip and tuck battle, lost their first match to the High Point High School by a close score of 9 1-2 to 8 1-2. The match was not decided until the last match was over. Granville Sharp, playing number one man, lost two points to Garret. Sharp lost the first nine holes to lose one point, then won the last nine holes to win one point, but Garret had the best score in the end and won the match 3 points to one. The Wildkittens won three points when Abels and Sharp combined to defeat Garret and Gales in the best ball match. Abels continued his fine work, winning three points from Gales. Charley Marshall and Joe Brinson lost matches to Snow and Keats respectively. The match was played at Carolina Golf Course in Charlotte. The Wildkitten golfers will go on a week’s trip soon and will engage in more matches.

Bowling! Billiards!
REX RECREATION
—and—
26th CENTURY BOWLING
AIR-CONDITIONED YEAR ROUND
FREE TELEPHONE

Furman Tennis Team Wins & Lose Only Two Matches From Varsity In Overwhelming Victory, 5 to 2

The tennis team defeated Furman here Monday afternoon 5 to 2, increasing their number of wins to eight. It was perfect tennis weather Monday, and a large number of spectators were present as the two teams took the courts.

Tenney, playing number one for Davidson, defeated Aiken of Furman in a three-set match 6-3, 0-6, 6-3. Tenney was missing many of his placements in the first set, with many of his shots barely missing the line. He settled down in the second and third sets to win without much trouble.

Kenney Plays Brilliantly

Bronston Kenney, playing number two for Davidson, defeated Anders of Furman 6-3, 6-3. Kenney, displaying brilliant tennis at times, had very little trouble defeating Anders. Harry Frampton, number three for Davidson, was defeated by Smith of Furman in two hard-fought sets, 7-5, 7-5. Smith played a beautiful net game, advancing to the net hard on placements to Frampton’s backhand. Jim Reinhardt, number four for Davidson, easily defeated Bagby of Furman 6-0, 6-1. Bagby was playing in the absence of Furman’s regular number four man. Huppel, number five for Furman, defeated Jones of Davidson in an extremely long match 10-8. Clinkscales of Davidson defeated Huppel in the absence of Furman’s regular number six man.6-4, thereby winning the match. Tenney defeated Aiken and Bagby 7-5, 6-4, in the doubles match. Tenney had won several previous matches against them. In the doubles, Lochter and Wilson Northcross, playing number two doubles, were defeated by Anders and Smith of Furman, 6-3, 6-2.

Greensboro Hi Whips Kittens
Greensboro Club Aided By Wildkitten Errors

The freshman baseball team lost its second start of the season Monday afternoon when a state championship Greensboro team defeated the Wildkittens by the score of 15-1. The Greensboro team pounded a total of 18 hits off two Davidson pitchers, for a net total of 15 runs. They were aided in the scoring by numerous errors of the Kittens. Apple, ace Greensboro pitcher, limited the Davidson frosh to three scattered hits during the seven innings that he pitched, and he was relieved in the eighth by Webb. Apple not only pitched his team to victory but also aided his cause by collecting three hits out of five trips to the plate. “Froggie” Holder also got three hits to lead the Greensboro batting. The Davidson team was ragged.

THE DAVIDSONIAN Spring Sport Card

APRIL
15—Baseball: Freshmen vs. Lincolnton High, at Lincolnton.
15—Tennis: Varsity vs. Elon at Davidson.
16—Baseball: Varsity vs. Clemson at Clemson.
16—Tennis: Varsity vs. N. C. State, at Davidson.
16—Track: Freshmen vs. V. P. I., at Blacksburg, Va.
19—Baseball: Freshmen vs. Central High of Charlotte, at Davidson.
20—Golf: Varsity vs. U. of Ala. at Athens, Ga.
21—Baseball: Varsity vs. Wofford, at Davidson, 3:30 P.M.
21—Golf: Intercollegiate Tournament, Athens, Ga.
22—Baseball: Freshmen vs. R. J. Reynolds High, Winston-Salem, at Davidson.
23—Track: Varsity vs. U. of Va., at Davidson.
25—Baseball: Varsity vs. N. C. State at Raleigh.
25—Tennis: Varsity vs. N. C. State at Raleigh.
26—Baseball: Varsity vs. North Carolina, at Chapel Hill.
26—Baseball: Freshman vs. Belmont Abbey, at Belmont.
26—Tennis: Varsity vs. Wake Forest, at Wake Forest.
27—Baseball: Varsity vs. Duke, at Durham.
27—Tennis: Varsity vs. North Carolina, at Chapel Hill.
28—Baseball: Varsity vs. Wake Forest, at Wake Forest.
28—Tennis: State Tournament at Chapel Hill.
29—Baseball: Freshman vs. Central High, at Charlotte.

Strong Pika Team Tops Volleyball Tournament

The Pika team continued to hold down the top position in the current volleyball tournament as they added three victories to bring their total to five won and none lost. The Kappa Sigs went into second place with the Phi Gams in third, when the former lost to the Phi Delts. The Phi Gams lost to the SAEs and Pikas but decisioned the Pi Kaps. The SPE's slipped from second to third position as they beat the Pi Kappa Phi’s and KA’s but lost to the K. Sigs. The Phi Delts were spanked by the KA’s but came back strong to take the Kappa Sigs.

The SAE’s won their first match when they beat the Phi Gams, but lost again to the marauding Pikas. The Pi Kappa Phi's continued their losing streak. The team as a whole shows promise.

Standings:
Pikas 5-0
K. Sigs 3-1
Phi Gams 3-2

THE CANDY OF THE SOUTH
415 South Tryon St.

GET IN THE SWING
Bowling & Pool
MOORESVILLE
Ed Ikalls, Mgr.

FAUL & CRYMES, Inc.
- Sporting Goods -
Charlotte, N. C.

For over half a century Nunnally’s has been the nicest gift. Your favorite package may be had with a Special Easter Decoration at no extra charge.

117 Garland Court
Prompt Service

PRINTING Company
PRINTERS EXTRAORDINARY to SCHOOLS and COLLEGES
SEND US YOUR folders
A COMPLETE PRINTING SERVICE
Charlotte, N. C.

Wildcat Tracksters
Freshmen Win Trackmen Beat Maryville; Lose To South Carolina

Page Four

Beat Maryville But Lose To Gamecocks
Track Team Overwhelms Maryville in Sleet and Snow, 76 1-3 To 49 2-3—Lose Heartbreaker to South Carolina In Final Event of Meet

The Davidson track team won decisively over Maryville last Saturday by the score of 76 1-3 to 49 2-3, but lost a close battle to the South Carolina Gamecocks earlier in the week, 67-64.

The Maryville meet was won rather handily although several of the important men were unable to compete. The Davidson team took seven of eight running events between them while Dave Woodward won the two mile. Not only did Paltamage win both sprints but also the 440 and got second in the low hurdles. Orr won both of the running events.

The Gamecocks from South Carolina came from behind in the last event last Wednesday to win a nip and tuck meet 67-64. The meet was very close all of the way with the final outcome being very doubtful.

Rain or Shine
You can have Your
TER SLIPPING ONE OF OUR VARSITY - TOWN DRAPES
$32.50 & $35.00
TATE BROWN CO.
COLLEGE SHOP — THIRD FLOOR

DAVIDSON, N. C.