Students Display Drawings in Exhibit

The Davidsonian

LUX UB! ORTA Cc LIBERTAS

Trustees Discuss College Business

VOL. XXV DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., WEDNESDAY, FEB. 16, 1938 No. 22

Student Art Work To Be Shown Here

Exhibit in Social Center to Be Open to Public For Rest Of Week

The Davidson Art Exhibit, being sponsored this year by the Davidsonian, is to be held this week in the Social
Center, beginning Thursday and lasting until the end of the week. The exhibit is to be open to the students
and to the public between the hours of one and four in the left side of the Social Center. This
exhibit of creative art is to be the work of Davidson students wholly, no outsiders or townspeople are to have
the privilege of entrance.

Fitzhugh Dade, assistant editor of the Davidsonian, is in charge of all arrangements and those who have not submitted their
work to him, should do so immediately. The most popular work is to be determined by ballot. After a person
has gone through the collection, he will have the privilege of casting a vote for his favorite artist. Fred Smith,
alumni secretary, has also announced that he will offer a prize for the best work in the entire collection. The
purpose of the exhibit is to further student interest in art here, among students.

Sam Ryburn is to enter a collection done with an air-brush. Gordon Horton, member of the class, is to enter
his surrealist work done with pencil. Bob Miller is entering a collection of oil paintings and watercolors. Carl Vinson is
entering his collection done with charcoal and pen and ink. Archie Torrey and Paul Crane are entering work in Chinese
art. Mac Covington, freshman, is entering work done with pastels.

Many Visit Art Exhibit

Borrow Photographs of North Carolina Scenes From Mint Museum

Magazine Editor Ryburn exercises his privilege of painting feminine pulchritude, and was caught by the camera man admiring in Narcissus
fashion his own handiwork. Ryburn and other student artists will exhibit their collection in the Social Center, sponsored by the
Davidsonian, in order to bring out some of the talent hidden in “them thar students.”

Success As Dances End

Berigan’s Flaming Trumpet Makes High Notes at Gala Occasion at Armory

With the last torrid note from Berigan’s trumpet, the signal was given for the conclusion of the annual Davidson College
Mid-Winter dances. Berigan, known for his hot swing music, played true to characteristic form throughout the set. This year’s set
consisted of three dances, the formal Friday night from 10 till 2, a tea dance Saturday afternoon from 4:30 until
6:30, and the informal from 8:30 until 12 Saturday night.

“Booby” Arrowsmith, of the Pan-Hellenic Council, led the figure at the Friday night formal with Miss “Way Way” Lumpkin of
Columbia, S. C. They were followed in the figure by Jim Dorsett, president, secretary of the council, with Miss Carleton
Sterne, of Anniston, Ala., and Jerry Harris, treasurer, with Miss Dorothy Davis of Oxford. The other members of the council
and an additional representative from each fraternity also took part with their dates in the figure. The figure was quite
elaborate and was concluded by each person in the figure coming out “Heifer Highballs.” The decorations committee carried out an
elaborate scheme in red and white, with a Valentine motif. The dancers entered through a huge heart at the door;
a second (Continued on Page 6)

Shipp Speaks At Journalism Class Meeting

Cameron Shipp, feature writer for the Charlotte News and Magazine contributor, was the guest speaker at the meeting of the
journalism class held Wednesday evening. Mr. Shipp, whose wide experience includes work in New York, Paris, and Rome, lectured to
the class on feature writing in general and on interviewing in particular. He discussed articles which he wrote for the
Charlotte News, one dealing with the “moonshiners” of North Carolina, and another to be published next month on slum clearance
in the south.

Regarding interviews, he advised his audience to know as much as possible of the subject on which they are to
write before attempting the actual interview. Once, he related, he studied two weeks for an interview which lasted only five
minutes. The reporter must have his questions ready, and further, must learn to draw out his subject, Mr. Shipp declared.

Continuing, the writer emphasized the importance of the reporter's finding out precisely what his editor wants before setting out to
get the story.

Another meeting of the class is scheduled for tonight, but as yet no announcement has been made regarding the speaker.

Gardner Will Speak At Spring Services

Dr. William V. Gardner, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Atlanta, Ga., will speak at the annual spring evangelistic
services of the Y. M. C. A., probably to be held from April 26 to April 28, Wade Boggs, Y
secretary, announced Monday. The Y. M. C. A. Board of Control decided early in January to invite Dr. Gardner, and
recently received a letter stating that he will be able to come. Boggs announced that the April date is only
tentative, and may possibly be changed.

Dr. Gardner, very popular with young people, spoke during the holidays at the Presbyterian Youth Conference in Atlanta.

Sigma Upsilon Initiates Men

The annual initiation of the Blue Pencil chapter of Sigma Upsilon will be held at nine o'clock Wednesday night at
the Kappa Sigma fraternity house with Wade Barrow presiding. Seven new men, recognized for outstanding ability and activity in the
fields of literature and English, will be initiated. Each new member will be called on to read his initiatory paper,
either at or within the next month. This national literary honorary fraternity was founded at the University of the South
(Sewanee) and the Davidson chapter came into existence in 1914. The new men who will be honored Wednesday night are
as follows: Sam Spencer, Sam Newell, Rut Miller, Jack Holland, Ed Morrow, Bill Marquess, and Dr. Frontis Johnston.

Rev. J. H. Marion Speaks About Problems of Life

Choosing “Life’s Problems” as his general theme, Rev. J. H. Marion, popular young pastor of the Oakland Avenue Presbyterian Church
in Rock Hill, delivered a fine sermon at Vespers last Sunday evening. Rev. Marion chose as his text the 1st
chapter of Jonah which contains the old familiar story of Jonah's fleeing from Ninevah, and went on to draw a
profitable comparison between Jonah’s dilemma and the person who runs away from his problems.

He began by discussing the results of running away from one’s problems, and he said that, though such an escape
is always the easiest way out, it inevitably ends in miserable restlessness. “Being too sentimental with ourselves” was also cited
as a reason that so many people run away from their problems by which he meant that all too often
we are prone to overlook our own faults rather than face them. He concluded by saying that the only true
and permanent solution to life’s difficulties is facing them squarely and frankly and that such action requires humility and complete
confession in Jesus Christ.

The guest ministers who will preach at Vespers up to Spring holidays are Rev. S. H. Fulton of Laurinburg; Rev.
J. A. Redhead, Jr., of Charlotte; Dr. John S. Foster, of Atlanta; and Dr. B. R. Lacy, president of Union
Seminary.

Julian DeGray Gives Concert Tuesday Night

Music Students Are Given Helpful Criticisms

Prof. Julian DeGray, pianist, gave the second concert in the college concert series Tuesday night in Chambers auditorium. Professor DeGray
is from Pennsylvania.a Vanian and a graduate of Columbia University. He has been professor of music at Bennington College, Bennington,
Vermont, ever since the college opened in 1932. The pianist studied under Matthay in England and Jean Hure in France
and has shaped and polished his musical talent. He has given many concerts in both Europe and this country, as
a soloist and in chamber music. DeGray is widely traveled and has a cosmopolitan stamp with all opinions concerned. He
is fluent in French, German, Spanish, Norwegian, Dutch, and Russian.

(The following letter, not necessarily expressing the views of the Davidsonian, is published in the interest of free expression.—ED.)

To the Editor:
After a week's intensive research, I have come to the conclusion that the Davidson Spirit is not only dying but
is already dead! These facts are so convincing and disheartening that they cannot be ignored. The Wildcat spirit, which Boru
bemoaned last week, is indeed gone. What are these facts? They are as follows:

1. There is an absolute lack of enthusiasm among the student body.
2. There is a complete lack of courtesy towards visiting teams.
3. There is no real student interest in any new or progressive movements on campus.
4. The all-consuming desire to get off the campus on weekends.

Only a ripple of interest was aroused last week. If there had been any real student interest, it would have
been revealed. The Wildcat spirit is dead!

-(Continued on Page 5)

To Pick Frosh Debate Team
Members Will Debate in Intra-Squad Contests

The freshman debate tryout will take place Tuesday, Feb. 22, in Phi Hall, with more than twenty candidates participating. The
topic for the trial debate will be the same as that debated by the varsity: namely, “Resolved, the National Labor
Relations Board Should Be Empowered to Enforce Arbitration of all Industrial Disputes.” Four regular team members and two alternates will
be chosen from the contestants. Members of the varsity will act as judges. No other debates have been arranged to
date. It is planned, however, to have a number of contests between members of the team, so that each may
have an opportunity to show his abilities. In this manner, the team will be prepared for the probable interschool contests
in the spring.

Freshmen interested in going out for the team are asked to give their names to a representative of the varsity
immediately following chapel service. Those who indicated their intention of debating next Tuesday are: Karl Jonas, Bob Finley, Roy Cunningham,
Armistead Burwell, J. B. Flynn, John Gilmer, Philip Peyton, Bob Williams, Vernon Youngblood, and Paul Crane. John Hay, E. B.
Watson, Bill Loftin, Louis Hite, D. B. Thompson, Hewes Parrish, Winston Taylor, Hector McClean, Herbert Coddington, John Vinson, Frank Barker,
Eldrich Lawson, and William B. Kiesewetter.

(Continued on Page 5)

Last week Boru thought the enthusiasm for the Davidson Spirit was only dying, but after a week's intensive research, he
proves it is already dead. The contests, coupled with the real student interest in any new or progressive movements on
campus, show an absolute lack of courtesy towards visiting teams. The all-consuming desire to get off the campus on weekends
is evident. Only a ripple of interest was aroused last week. If there had been any real student interest, it
would have been revealed. The Wildcat spirit is dead!

-(Continued on Page 5)

Much Interest Shown By Photographers As Second Week Begins

Marked interest has been noted in the annual snapshot contest for amateur photographers, which is now in its second week.
Entry blanks are being distributed at the College Pharmacy, and as photographs are submitted, they are displayed in the window.
The first display was arranged in the drug store window yesterday, featuring various snapshots of campus life.

Last weekend, with all the Midwinters festivities in full sway, was an advantageous time for photographers, and many boys were
seen taking various informal pictures at the dances. Many of these will be entered in the contest. The College Pharmacy
has announced a list of valuable prizes, which will be given by his establishment and other firms in Davidson and
Charlotte. The five prizes include a Jiffy Kodak, $5 in films or photographic supplies, an ice cream cake from the
Biltmore Creamery, which will be especially decorated for its winner, and ten Agfa snap folios. Norton’s Barber Shop will give
a shave, shine, and haircut. A month’s pass to the Imperial Theater in Charlotte is another prize. Smith Flower Co.
has promised a $2.50 corsage to some prize-winner which can be sent at Easter, dance week-end, or any other time.
The Davidsonian is giving a bound copy of its issues. Other prizes are being added to the list daily. This
contest is open to any amateur photographer on the campus except the Davidsonian staff. There is no entrance fee.

(Continued on Page 5)

The Davidsonian is interested in having the colleges and universities more acquainted with the association's activities. The plan is to
have an artist spend two and one-half days at each school, meeting the faculty and students in informal groups, playing
to them, and discussing music and its relation to various subjects. Professor DeGray met with music students on Monday in
informal discussion, listened to them play, and later met with the Glee Club. He then criticized them at the request
of the instructor. On Tuesday afternoon, the pianist took over Foreman’s ethics class and rendered a program. DeGray followed with
a formal recital for the college community in the afternoon. The program included:

Prelude and Fugue in F major by Bach; Intermezzo Op. 119 by Brahms; Sonata Op. 53 by Beethoven; Ondine and
The Sunken Cathedral by Debussy; Ballade and Hungarian Rhapsody by Liszt.

L.R. Smith Dies Here Tuesday
Passes After Long Period of Ill Health

L. R. Smith, 84, died here Tuesday morning, Feb. 8th, at 2 o'clock after a long period of ill health.
Funeral services were held Wednesday afternoon at 4 o'clock at the Davidson Presbyterian Church. The active pallbearers were: Heath J.
Thies, Jr., Barry Caldwell, Wilburn Whittle, Sam Love, and J. B. Yeo. Mr. Smith, a prominent missionary in the mountains
of North Carolina, was born in 1836. Survivors include his daughters: Miss Ida Smith, Miss Clara Smith, and Miss Lois
Smith of Davidson; Mrs. C. Devann of Wilmington; and his sons: Mr. Hedy Smith of Statesville and Mr. Davidson Smith
of Davidson.

Trustees Report to Two Committees

The trustees of Davidson College held their annual mid-winter session in the faculty room in Chambers during Feb. 15-16. This
was the regular yearly meeting at which all the college affairs were reviewed and plans approved for the coming year.
The education committee, consisting of five trustees, met at 10 o'clock Tuesday morning with Dr. Lingle to discuss the educational
policy of the school as compared to other schools. They also made necessary recommendations to the trustees as to the
future policy of the college. The executive committee, consisting of ten trustees, convened at 2 o'clock to hear and discuss
the annual review made by Dr. Lingle and Treasurer Jackson. President Lingle gave a review of the activities of the
past year, suggestions for the future, and the financial status of the school. Treasurer Jackson reported on the Centennial movement,
its financial side, and the budget for the coming year. Despite the recent withdrawal of so many students, the school
again showed a balance.

On Wednesday, the group of forty-nine trustees met to hear and vote on the recommendations and plans of the committees,
with a discussion of the Centennial movement taking a prominent part. The trustees had lunch with the faculty in Chambers
dining hall and during the afternoon inspected the new infirmary and the recently remodeled laundry. Dreher A. Dunn, a prominent
Charlotte banker, was elected to the board of trustees. Of the forty-nine trustees, twelve are elected by the North Carolina
presbyteries, while the others represent various other states.

Greeks Initiate Fifty Pledges
Four Fraternities to Complete Initiation

The fraternities will complete the initiation of fifty pledges this semester. The Phi Delta Theta, Pi Kappa Phi, and Sigma
Alpha Epsilon fraternities will initiate their pledges on March 4th. The Kappa Sigma fraternity will complete its initiation on March
5th.
