WEDNESDAY, FEB. 16, 1938 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Five

‘Question Students' Use lil. Week | 1-9 For Messages of Their Love

Last week a letter appeared in the Davidsonian stating the rather evident and necessary reasons why freshmen should be allowed to vote in student elections. As you may know, a measure was brought up in 1936 to secure the privilege for first-year students to vote, but the student body "unreasonably and foolishly," in our opinion, defeated the motion.

And why shouldn't the freshmen vote? The men being voted for are technically seniors, therefore the yearlings are technically sophomores. As the letter stated, "if a man in seven months can't learn enough to cast an intelligent vote, then there is little hope of his doing so in four years; and on top of that, he is too dumb to be in college."

To see how the opinion of the student body is running on this subject, this week we asked them the question: "Do you think the freshman class should be allowed to vote in spring elections?"

Here's what the interviewed said:

Jim Reinhardt, Senior:
"Yes, I am in favor of letting the freshmen vote."

Chet Chapman, Senior:
"I think the freshmen should be allowed to vote because they are part of the student body and should have a say in who their leaders are."

Bill Miller, Junior:
"Yes, I think freshmen should vote. It will give them some practice in the way elections are held. This will better qualify them for voting in the following years. They are part of the student body and should therefore vote after their first semester."

Jim Currie, Sophomore:
"I think the freshmen should vote; if they've been here seven months, they should be able to cast an intelligent vote."

Telegrams Carry Messages From Davidsonians To Distant States

MANY SEND VALENTINES

Mother’s Day Provides Best Usage For Telegram

"Western Union telegrams carry messages of love," Carl Sandburg would have written if he were to write this story today. However, it is doubtful if Shelley could ever have imagined the kind of Western Union wires that probably have whispered wistfully, "Ah, Western Union, thou dearest messenger of tender love."

With Mid-Winters fresh in the hearts of the student body, we asked them about the use of telegrams. Here's what they said:

Mr. Gattney, Western Union Office:
"Valentine's Day and Christmas are the busiest times for telegrams. Mother’s Day, however, leads all others in the number of telegrams sent. Valentine's Day is also a significant time for telegrams, with many being sent to distant states before the day arrives."

Mr. Gattney has an interesting method for sending greetings to some fair lady if she lives in another state. He can send your telegram by cable and wire around the world and back to Greensboro for only a few dollars.

Among the Greeks

Maisie Hall Toastmaster At Pi Kappa Phi Banquet

Maisie Hall acted as toastmaster at the Pi Kappa Phi banquet last Saturday evening in Charlotte. He welcomed Wilbur Edwards and Dave Sellars, who were initiated last Saturday.

Phi Gams Hold Banquet In Charlotte

The Phi Gams held their banquet in the 1-2-3 room of Hotel Charlotte last Saturday. Mr. F. L. Jackson presented a characteristic speech at the banquet.

Dr. J. W. MacConnell Visits Medical Meet

Dr. J. W. MacConnell, college physician, left Saturday for Chicago, where he will attend a meeting of the Council on Medical Education and Hospitals. There, Dr. MacConnell will meet with the presidents and deans of the medical colleges of the United States, and thus hopes to be of service to those Davidson students who expect to study medicine.

Kappa Sigs Send Representatives to Installation

Brothers Sam Webb and Melvin King represented the [Davidson] chapter at the installation of the National Delta chapter.

Phi Delt Trio Entertains at BanquetFederation of Medi- | >), | \ months and don’t oT y mega cha Nappa Sigma at \ nt al Boar is present trip is.stiv 1 know how to vote, cal ie } ps ele he ! Wake Fore week \b t ; t en to him with the compliment ; * they never will. : eek is held at H Chariot ! t 1 the North Carolina Board of Med | | : ' . ‘ And beside I be- 1 t The « er,enterta \I gip es tiene ; : , ical Examiners fe At hes att WI Nicene ; reve r ymen ine I \ tro Mf 1 ay . fre Ly e : ; rolyanatdoont : Ww more OS | I d, Mr. and Ick pear Malete Photographers Hear — \y.. 5}. i Wade Boepsdl ttariee | ee: han members of the upper classes Dr. Lyon In Lecture Charlie 4 | Hay. | did 4 ania y Each freshman should be given that . t dun | vere Hh esponsibility (in his first year in At the last meeting of the Photo! Pikas Greet Alumni ( ' Dang eine! der to make him realize early | Club, Dr. Scott Lyon delivered a | Over Week-End Gra and: \War all his position as a Davidson man.” talk on composition. To illustrate \ banquet arranged by Johnny piss Sertay his talk he showed several pictures | Horton proved to be an enjoyable| SpE Initiates Nine Men Gordon Cleveland, Senior: upon a screen, pointing out features | occasion for members and guests| into Fraternity “I personally think they should. | of the composition of each of Pi Kappa Alpha last Saturday Phi Ep held it Freshmen have Next Tuesday night the club ex-| night in Charlotte at Efird Among final initiation Friday night at which more right to vote pects to have its next meeting, at| those who visited the chapter last men into the than seniors be- which time Mr. Lothery will lead | week-end were Knorr, Jack fraternity. A banquet took place cause they will be a discussion on “Lighting.” The, Roach, Glenn Grier, Saturday evening at Efird’s dining governed by those club had expected to hold a snap-|and Shy Young. Brother Doty spent officers. They've shot contest, but it has now decided | the week-end at home in Rogersville, Tenn. been here long to back the one which the Davidson- Alumni Welcomed By enough to know ian is sponsoring. SAE’s Last Week who they're vot- S. Hoke Robinson, Ed Armfield, Poison ivy is waiting for unsus- ing for. STUDENT ART WORK Tom Marchant, Buddy Newton and pecting picnickers. When you go Then, principally, if they are (Continued from Page 1) Herb Willis were guests of Sigma hiking in the woods, beware of given responsibility as freshmen, with colored pencil, Dallas Herring Alpha Epsilon last week-end. The the little three-leaf plant that may they will come back next year feel- has made known he will enter four banquet Saturday night was held at cause you discomfort in your ro- ing like upperclassmen, as they watercolors. Fred Harbin and Thacker’s, in Charlotte. Brother mance. should. As it is, they are here at- Wade Barrow will also enter some most two years before they are al- of their work. lowed to vote for their own offi- This exhibit is expected to be We've tried everything and we cers.” popular with the students. If this think that fish are perfect pets. proves to be the case, arrangements will be made to continue the exhibit into next week. “You'll Find Warmth and Friendliness At Bridges” Complete Home Furnishers 308 South Tryon Street ‘Dot and Dash’ ——— Umpire-In-Chief Charlotte, N. C. Call US When You Need Coal Wood Ice ... Delivered Same Day ... ° DAVIDSON ICE & FUEL CO. PHONE 130 Cheek Shows Eighty Books Missing From Book Shelves Professor Davidson Asks Stu- dents to Co-operate With Library Staff FIND TWELVE VOLUMES Losses May Necessitate Closed Shelf System No less than eighty books were counted missing from the book shelves of the library last week. Professor Davidson, in charge of the library, has issued an appeal for the return of these books. If the books are not returned, the library will be forced to adopt a closed shelf system. This will mean that students will not be allowed to browse among the books, but will have to request the librarian to get the books for them. Professor Davidson asks that students co-operate with the library staff in this matter. PICK FROSH DEBATERS (Continued from Page 1) WE INVITE ALL DAVIDSON TO HELP US CELEBRATE ANNIVERSARY WEEK The year’s comedy smash hit!! You don’t have to be crazy to enjoy this picture ... but it will help! Extra!! PETE SMITH Short CLYDE LUCAS And His Orch. Charlotte’s Most Popular Band Marksmen To Meet Citadel Davidson Rifle Team, Captain- ed By Springs Pharr, Will Shoot This Week Julian DeGray Prof. Julian DeGray, above, appeared here last night in the second of the college concert series. A pianist of note, Mr. DeGray, now professor of music at Bennington College, was secured through the American Association of Colleges. Three Prizes Sophomore Ad-Writing Contest Open For Essayists Successful Three Times in Observer ‘Right Ad’ Contest PICTURE CONTEST (Continued from Page 1) GREEKS INITIATE (Continued from Page 1) Beta Theta Pi Special Notice to Readers GET YOUR BOUND COPIES The Davidsonian (1937-38) A complete record of a year of campus life in picture and print. Only - - $2.00 PLACE YOUR ORDERS NOW Charles R. Moore, Bus. Mgr. C/O THE DAVIDSONIAN—OR “B” EAST Standard Printing Company Garland Court Charlotte, N. C. PRINTERS EXTRAORDINARY SCHOOLS and COLLEGES SEND US YOUR ORDERS A COMPLETE PRINTING SERVICE Prompt Service Reasonable Prices