= 45 CAT-TALES | By TONI CASALI

Hats off to Bill Johnston! If there was only one player on the Observer and Charlotte News team that really deserved a place on their all-state team, it was certainly Big Bill. This distinction is a fitting climax to his two splendid years on Davidson's varsity, and when the roll call for guards and tackles comes around next year, Bill will be missed a lot... too much.

And while on the subject of all-state teams, some credit should be given to Freshman George Lilly. George made rounds in all the dormitories and collected all-state ballots (filled out) and then sent them in to the Observer office. When the Observer announced their selection, they also said in the write-up that a last-minute rush of ballots from Davidson's campus clinched Big Bill's selection as guard on their team over the scrappy Fred Yorke of Duke. George deserves a hand...

I guess most of you have heard the bad, or should I say sad, news of Colonel Fred Smith's departure from Davidson's publicity department. Fred really has put Davidson on the map. The football team, even with a none too impressive season, got plenty of publicity through the time and effort Colonel Fred put forth. Davidson will certainly miss him, his personality, news write-ups, and his pictures. One thing about Fred, he is surely an all-round man, and Davidson will have a tough time finding someone to replace him. Besides being publicity agent deluxe and Alumni secretary of the college, he performed many other duties. Some of them are taking pictures of practically everything that went on around the campus and also at football games, putting out four alumni journals each year, head of the journalism club (being the founder and director), and organizing Alumni clubs throughout the states. The thing that Davidson will miss most is his publicity. Colonel Fred knows every newspaper man of note in the two Carolinas. A man with his connections with the leading newspapers in the two states will be hard to find. Surely some credit should be given to the genial Alumni Secretary.

The intra-mural wrestling tournament drew much interest last week, but those of you who missed the affair certainly missed a treat. The highlight of the annual tourney was a bout between two brothers—Jay and Bill Bolin. Neither of the two boys conceded the other a thing, and they went at it with one aim in mind—to pin the other. It seems as Jay (the youngest of the two) had the best of things at the beginning of the match after he laid Big Brother Bill low with a neat (almost flying) tackle. Bill, like all other big brothers, couldn't be humiliated by his younger frater and soon things began to sizzle. Bill finally won but only by the slightest of margins. Bring on more bouts like this one!!!

Well, it looks like Davidson's varsity basketball team, followed by a one-man jinx for the past two years, is headed for a successful season. They have height, scoring power, defensive tactics, and plenty of fight. Teams in the Southern Conference had better be on the lookout for this fine quintet headed by Captain Ned Iverson. J. D. Hicks set some kind of a record the other night against the J. O. Jones five with a neat defensive performance and scoring only 27 points... and he stayed in the game for only about 30 minutes. Benny Harrison seems to be off to a good season. He’s the only junior on the squad and hasn't made many buckets to date, but his floor work has been impressive. John Tice is up to his old tricks and keeps the crowd in an uproar with his “pranks,” and you can bet your boots that Cowan will be near the top in conference scoring by the end of the season. Jim Hogg, who played well as a Frosh last year, is giving the boys a race for one of the starting positions with his fine offensive and defensive work.

AROUND AND ABOUT... Handsome Dave Warden and Ned Iverson making the Salem College (Girls) All-Beauty team... picked for beauty and physique instead of football ability... Dave rated so high that he was awarded a Co-Captain place on the squad... Every major team in the country has an outstanding player in its lineup from West Virginia... Yorke of Duke... Goldberg of Pitt... Cafego, Bartholomew of Tennessee... Zontini of Notre Dame... Wheby and Anderson from Georgia Tech... Condit of Carnegie Tech... Schoenbaum from Ohio State... Then there is our own Bob Benfield... Wake Forest's John Jett... V.M.I.’s Meem... and many others too numerous to mention... Potent State, I'd say... that is along the lines of putting out good football players. If West Virginia University could have kept all these boys, my oh my, what an aggregation they would have had... Probably the best in the country...

Traditionally, Davidson’s greatest potential athlete of all-time was “Shrimp” Morris. Made letters in basketball, football, and baseball his sophomore year... Also made captain of baseball for his coming junior year but was stricken by infantile paralysis during the summer of his sophomore year and hasn't recovered yet. He went to school back in 1932... Ask Enoch about him... Wonder if football teams have overlooked Bill Johnston when handing out contracts for next year? Merry Xmas, Kitty...

Professional Seniors and Sophs Take First Basketball Games

Bowling Continues With Kappa Sigs Leading

The Sophomores led all the way; the score at halftime was 15-6 in their favor. Basketball took the intra-mural sports program spotlight this week by starting out with a bang on Monday night with the Seniors beating the Freshmen and the Sophomores winning out over the Juniors. In the first game of the night, the Seniors romped on the Freshmen to the tune of 28 to 10. Steve Fowler led the scoring with 11 points, but June Alcorn was close behind with 10 points to his credit. Hewitt Rose led the Frosh scoring with 4 points. Marshall led the Sophomores to a 37-18 trouncing of the Juniors with 18 points. Spencer led the Junior attack with 9 points, and he tied with Frank Barker who was second in scoring for the Juniors.

The Kappa Sigs are leading the inter-fraternity bowling by a large margin boasting five wins and no defeats. They have won all of their matches by many pins, compiling well over a 95 average in their total scores. In the fourth round that was completed last Thursday, the Betas...

WED., DEC. 14, 1938

Mary, Univ. of Baltimore, 2,000-Mile Trip Varsity Card

Dec. 12—Hampton-Sydney, there
Dec. 13—Wm. and Mary, there
Dec. 14—Randolph-Macon, there
Dec. 15—Baltimore, there
Dec. 16—Maryland, there
Jan. 4—McCrary Eagles, there
Jan. 5—Duke, Winston-Salem
Jan. 7—N. Carolina, Charlotte
Jan. 10—S. Carolina, here
Jan. 13—Furman, there
Jan. 14—Wofford, there
Jan. 17—N. C. State, here
Feb. 1—Guilford, here
Feb. 4—Citadel, here
Feb. 7—N. Carolina, there
Feb. 8—Duke, there
Feb. 11—V.P.I., Winston-Salem
Feb. 13—Wake Forest, there
Feb. 14—N. C. State, there
Feb. 18—Citadel, there
Feb. 21—Wofford, here
Feb. 23—S. Carolina, there
Feb. 25—Wake Forest, here
Feb. 28—Furman, here

Two Cats On Salem Team

“Handsome Dave” Warden and “Dazzling Ned” Iverson, Davidson football luminaries, were accorded further gridiron honor when the staff of the Salem College weekly recently placed these two men on their all-star “ALL-BEAUTY” team. Warden, Davidson captain during the just-past season, was further complimented by being selected along with Bob Spangler of Duke as co-captain of this all-star line.Girls explained: “Since we females are so prejudiced to good looks, we have decided to pick the players for the team according to their masculine charm instead of their ability on the gridiron... We tried to pick the best-looking man for each post, but we realize that some of the players were greatly flattered by the pictures we saw while others were done great injustices by their attempts to appear ‘tough,’ therefore, if we have made any too ghastly errors in our selection, we offer our apologies now.”

Not brawn but beauty... the Salemite grid team:
Ends: Ned Horace Palmer, Carolina
Tackles: Warden, (co-captain) Fred Yorke, Duke
Guards: Bob Alabaster, Duke; Jim Woodson, Carolina
Center: Bob Adams, Carolina
Backs: Bob Duke, (captain), George Wirtz, Wake Forest, N. C. State, Jim Lalanne, Carolina

Editor’s Note: We suggest that “Poss” McLean and “Black Dog” Hunter be placed on the Salemite’s checklist for consideration in 1939.

Iverson, Davidson
Dave Spangler, Paul Lozier

Charlotte’s Leading Restaurant
DELICIOUS FOOD AT REASONABLE PRICES
221 W. Trade Street
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Davidson Basketball Team Will Play Games On Long Trip
’Cats Play Hampden-Sidney, Randolph-Macon, William and Mary

Drink a Quart of Milk a Day
Drink Pasteurized Milk, It’s Safe
MOORESVILLE CREAMERY
Mooresville, North Carolina

Get Your Gifts HERE! And Begin Your Holidays FREE of Shopping Worries!
WHITE DRUG CO.
DAVIDSON, N. C.

Davidson’s basketball team left early Monday morning on a trip that will carry them from Davidson to Baltimore, Maryland, to play five games on successive nights. The Wildcats will undertake to play five cage teams, two of them Southern Conference opponents, traveling about 2,000 miles en route. Monday they encountered Hampden-Sidney in Danville, Va., last night they played Randolph-Macon. William and Mary is scheduled for tonight, while tomorrow and Friday nights the Wildcats will play the University of Baltimore and the University of Maryland.

With already a clean slate in their Southern Conference record, the 'Cats are looking forward to bringing back two victories when they come back Saturday. The University of Maryland quint, which is always a strong one, is reputed to have one of the strongest teams in its recent history. The 'Cat team is composed of four regulars from last year: Iverson, captain; J. D. Hicks, Footsie Cowan, and Johnnie Tice. Benny Harrison, a reserve from last year, completes the first five. Five reserves from last year and three other men made the trip, including two sophomores who have played well in practice games. Bill “Hayseed” Thomas and Swede Johnson are the reserves from last season. Jim Hogg and Apie Means, sophomores, round out the second five.

Frosh Cagers In Initial Win
Davidson's freshman basketball team got off to a flying start Thursday night when they beat the Charlotte Office Supply Co. 43-34 on the home court. Coach Laird’s proteges looked good in their first start as they took their more experienced adversaries into camp by a decisive score. Although the offense and defense were both ragged at times, the Kittens showed that they were of excellent caliber. Don Bell, former Ohio All-State center, led the frosh offense as he racked up 20 points. Marvin Sink, forward, placed second with a total of 13 to his credit. For the Charlotte team, Roth was best at hitting the basket by making fifteen points. Eleven men saw service for the Kittens: Marvin Sink, Dave Spencer.

THE DAVIDSONIAN
DAVIDSON SPORTS
Page Four

High Scorer
J. D. Hicks, veteran basketball star, led Davidson’s scoring Thursday night against the J. O. Jones quint as he racked up 27 points. A native of Shelby, N. C., this is his third year on the varsity.

Cat Matmen Meet YMCA
Davidson's varsity matmen opened their 1938-'39 season Tuesday night with a match against the Winston Salem Y.M.C.A. team coached by former Davidson wrestling luminary, Charley Fort, '35. Seven main bouts and seven preliminaries made up the card. The team was weakened by the loss of Captain Joe Craver because of illness. After several weeks of training and elimination bouts, the team was selected as follows: 121 pounds, Ken McIntyre; 128 pounds, Red Telford; 138 pounds, Joe Wilson; 148 pounds, S. Bailey; 158 pounds, Graham MacFayden; 168 pounds, Ed Ellis; 178 pounds, Hank Bahnson; unlimited, Nelson Horton. The team has several men back from last year including Telford, MacFayden, Ellis, Bailey, and Craver. Three sophomores have broken into the lineup also, to strengthen the team. They are Wilson, Bahnson, and Horton. Besides those starting in the first match, there are several other men who are pushing these for positions on the team. This first match was a preliminary one to the regular season starting soon.

[Continued on Page Six]

Victor, Brunswick, Decca, Vocalion Bluebird
35c—75c Each. Any record not in stock can be quickly secured.
Phone 8257.
PARKER-GARDNER CO.
Pianos-Radios-Accordions—Since 1898
Charlotte, N. C.

“Give and take” say I. Old Santa gives so much and asks so little. Ditto for the pause that refreshes with ice-cold Coca-Cola. The handy six-bottle cartons, at your dealer’s, will bring holiday refreshment to your house.
COCA-COLA BOTTLING CO.
ADDRESS
TELEPHONE

Hicks Is High Scorer
Hicks, Wildcat guard, leading the scoring barrage with 27 points.

DAVIDSONIAN
Page Four

Davidson Varsity Licks J. O. Jones 68-21
Veteran Leads Scoring With 27 Points; Improvements Shown in All Departments as Substitutes Are Used Freely

Davidson's basketball quintet scored its second win of the season in as many starts last Thursday night as J. O. Jones, Inc. of Charlotte was downed in a practice game 68-21. The Wildcats showed improvement in both passing and shooting over their initial encounter with Mill Power of Charlotte. Lanky “Foots” Cowan was closest to Hicks’ phenomenal total with 11 points and Jim Hogg was third with 9, tying with A. Levi of J. O. Jones, who paced the Charlotte five. Iverson, Tice, and Harrison, Davidson regulars, set up numerous baskets for teammates with well-timed passes.

J. O. Jones
A. Levi (f)—9
Bass (g)—8
McCall (c)—2
Sims (g)—1
Quick (g)—0
McCachren (f)—0
J. Levi (f)—1

Davidson
27—Hicks (g)
11—Cowan, (c)
6—Tice (g)
6—Iverson (f)
3—Harrison (f)
9—Hogg (f)
4—Thomas (g)
2—Means (f)
0—Johnson (c)
0—Boyd (g)

Bone-Benders Hold Tourney
Wrestling was spotlighted on the campus Thursday night as the Annual Intramural Tourney strained to its grand finale. The grunt and groaners who were in the finals were determined by a series of elimination bouts. A summary of the bouts in the various weights is: In the opener Dave Spencer won by a fall over Bob King in the 125 lb. class. They were followed on the mat by Abells and Moore in the 135 lb. division. Abells received the decision. Then came “Bogo” Kunz who won over Wilson by a fall, this being in the 145 lb. class. Aarseth won from Turnage in the 155 finals. Bill Bolin pinned Boo Walker in the 165 division in one of the best matches of the evening. Hank Bahnson defeated Walt Fitzgerald in the 175 lb. set to. In the final bout Bill Johnston won from Ed Hipp in the unlimited division by nature of a decision.

Determined To Be In The Lead...
BELK’S Presents The Notable Line Of TIMELY CLOTHES
Choice of Particular Men (Others at $50)
Our new Men’s Store takes another forward stride with the addition of this famous line of clothing. Distinguished suits and topcoats in every sense of the word. Superb in quality, impeccable in tailoring, beautiful in styling. Come in and see this smart line of clothes. Exclusive in Charlotte at Belks!
MEN’S STORE
Street Floor
BELK BROS. CO.
Charlotte, N. C.

Cold Weather Is Here To Stay!
Don’t Fail to Get A GOOD SUPPLY OF FUEL
From
DAVIDSON ICE & FUEL CO.