WEDNESDAY, NOV. 23, 1938 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Five

Large Class Initiated By Philanthropic Group
Five Candidates Present Talks Preceding Installation Ceremony

PROGRAM IS IMPRESSIVE
Meeting Featured by Candle-Lighting Service

The Philanthropic Literary Society initiated 31 new members at its meeting last week. Five of the candidates made talks preceding
the ceremonies. Bill Birmingham spoke on the farm program in Tennessee. Allen Huffines recited a declamation by Woodrow Wilson entitled
“The Spirit of America.” Sandy McEachern discussed the history of philosophy and Joel Whitten spoke on the subject, “The Horrors
of War.” Joe Gordon recited a long poem.

Initiation Ceremony
The initiation ceremony consisted of an impressive program emphasizing the qualities of character for which the society stands. The points
emphasized in the ritual were truth, honor, scholarship, sincerity, comradeship, courtesy, loyalty, and reverence. During the program, a candle-lighting service
was held. The meeting closed with the members joining in the Lord's Prayer. Rod Williams, president of Philanthropic, presided over
the initiation program which Ivan Wetmore and Lester Skinner arranged.

New Initiates
Those who were initiated were Don Bell, Bill Birmingham, Al Bixler, Bill Boyle, John Brady, Eldridge Brown, Paul Bush, John
Farrior, Tom Fry, Joe Gordon, Frank Hand, Nelson Horton, Allen Huffines, Dick Gammon, Jim Kerr, Bob King, Bill McLauchlin, James
Mann, Sandy McEachern, Miguel Jumbarger, Munoz, Marion Pleasants, Gordon Riggan, Sid Sample, Dick Stevenson, Bill Summers, John Talmage, Frank Walker,
Joel Whitten, Norman Williams, and Chalmers Vinson. Those in the society who were not present at the initiation are not
included in the above list but will be installed in the near future.

Fifty Help In Church Work
Sunday School Teachers Advance Under Crane

Under the leadership of Sid Crane, the Sunday School Department of the YMCA has advanced as never before. Over fifty
boys have volunteered for teaching service in the six schools for which Davidson furnishes a part of or the entire
teaching staff. The largest group of boys teach out at the Mecklenburg Sanatorium. Every Sunday, eleven boys hold classes there
under the direction of Lester Skinner. These workers are: Phipps, Dick Coppedge, Paul Boyle, John Talmage, Roger Rice, Bob Crane,
Eldridge Brown, Don Hott, Bob King, and Dan Gilliam. The next largest group works under Dave McLean at the colored
church. Under his enthusiastic leadership, these boys are doing one of the most important works sponsored by our “Y”. Hector
McLean, Nelson Smith, John Hay, Boyd Flynn, Glenn Terrell, Campbell Baird, and David Coblentz assist in this department. Bob Brandon,
Sid Crane, Tom Fry, Rod Williams, Ivan Wetmore, Joe Gordon, and Nelson Horton are the teachers at the Davidson Unity
Church. With Watson Street, valedictorian of last year's graduating class, preaching and these boys teaching the Sunday School classes, Davidson
is showing its interest in this church to be really warm. At the Davidson Presbyterian Church, the class is taught
by David Sprunt and John H. Brady leads the singing while David Woodward is our only representative at the Davidson
Methodist Church. To Shearer Chapel, out in the country in the general direction of Mooresville, three Davidson boys walk three
long miles every Sunday morning to do a fine piece of work at that church. These are Ken McIntyre, A.
T. Lassiter, and Shaw Smith. The Department tries to give as many boys work as possible. And they, with hardly
any recognition and no reward except the enjoyment of doing a great work and some real good, perform their duties
persistently and earnestly.

What's the Dope, Enoch?
Our intrepid cameraman caught Enoch, the venerable campus philosopher, in this pose as he began a lengthy consultation with his
pet lizard. The reported purpose of the interview was to determine the outcome of the upcoming football game.

Scribes Draw Up Rules For Writer’s Club
Club Is Open To All Interested In Newspaper Work

The Journalists were officially organized into a club at their last meeting on Wednesday, November 16. Under the direction of
President Paul S. Cooper, a constitution was adopted by the group. The name of the Journalism Club was adopted. The
purpose of the organization is to bring together those Davidson College men that have an interest in some phase of
journalistic work and to promote their interest in this subject. Roy Cunningham, chairman of the constitution committee, presented the constitution
drawn up by Rock Deaton, Glover Trent, and himself. After the reading, members of the club voted their acceptance. The
club is open to all those having an interest in newspaper work. The names of prospective members will be turned
in to the president.

Chemical Group Will Stage Open Meeting
Gamma Sigma Epsilon, the national honorary chemistry fraternity at Davidson, will hold a meeting on Wednesday night, November 16. Leading
the discussion will be Dr. S. B. Knight. The subject will be chemistry work in the graduate schools. Also, at
this time, plans will be discussed for an open meeting. The fraternity announces that all interested students will be invited
to attend this meeting. These open meetings had been an annual feature until last year when no open meeting was
held. This year Gamma Sigma Epsilon is planning to revive the custom.

Seasons Record
Davidson Scores Symphony Orchestra And Glee Club Give Program of Inspirational Music

The scheduled Musical Vesper Service was held in Chambers Auditorium last Sunday evening, November 20. Professor James Christian Pfohl of
the Davidson College Music Department was in charge of the service.

Boggs Presides
Wade Boggs, of the local Y. M. C. A., presided at the exercises which opened with a “Meditation”, a Brahms
prelude, played by the Little Symphony Orchestra under the direction of Professor Pfohl. The Glee Club, directed by Professor Thane
McDonald, then rendered a call to worship, “Bless the Lord O My Soul”. Mrs. M. L. Rozzelle, contralto, sang a
solo, “Hold Thou My Hand,” by Briggs. Mrs. Rozzelle sings regularly with the quartet at the First Presbyterian Church in
Charlotte. The Double Quartette followed with a prayer, “Our Father Who Art In Heaven” by Warner. The Little Symphony Orchestra
played two more selections during the services, Rubinstein’s “Melody in F” and “Prelude” by Glazounoff. The four additional pieces sung
by the Glee Club included the usual offertory and closing responses composed by Professor Thane McDonald, “It is the Lord’s
Own Day” by Krentzer, and Ritcher’s “The Creation.”

Various Hymns
The hymns included in the service were “God of Our Fathers” and “Almighty God.”“Hand,” Jesus, as Thou Wilt.” It was
announced that the services Sunday would be held by Charles J. Woodbridge of the First Presbyterian Church in Salisbury. He
is the son of a Presbyterian Missionary and although still a young man, has traveled widely and had much experience.

Pi Kappa Alpha, And Your Officers: Pres., Scotty John Reisner; V-Pres., Raynal Stitt; Treasurer, Addison Robinson. College Men should wear
the Fashion Park and Westminster Tails. It's a real party when you go in “white tie” and tails. Be among
the first in your crowd to recognize they are tops again. It won't be long now before our friend Mr.
Dinner Coat is back where he belongs—at semi-formal occasions.

Marion Davis Co.
205 S. Tryon Street
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Tomorrow's football game with Wake Forest will be organized by a committee this week. This committee shall present those names
before the club for discussion. A paper must be presented by the applicant for membership upon a subject approved by
the membership committee. There will be an initiation fee, to be paid at attendance of the first meeting. It was
decided that a regular meeting will be held each Wednesday night. A plan was drawn up to regulate absences. After
the business meeting, a spelling contest was conducted by Fred Smith, adviser to the club. The spelling consisted of words
which are commonly misspelled. He emphasized the fact that this was one fault the journalist must not be guilty of.
Philip Peyton was declared winner of the contest, with Andy Dale coming in second.

There will be representatives from as far north as New York and Michigan and as far south as Florida and
Texas, with practically all southern states represented. Dr. Harding will be the president, succeeding Dr. Lyon, who presided at the
last meeting. Dr. Lyon will continue as chairman.

Dr. J. W. MacConnell, college physician, has complete statistics on every student from the physical exams taken at the first
of the year. One of his hobbies is totaling various statistics. His most recent findings are about the freshman class.
Of this class, 18 percent use tobacco, 11 percent wear glasses, and 52 percent have had their tonsils and adenoids
removed.

Betas Scattered Over Week-end
R. J. Wyatt and W. M. Means spent the week-end in Raleigh. Brothers Charlie Pegram, Holt Jimmy Cooper, and Ray
Pittman journeyed to Fayetteville where they remained over Saturday and Sunday. Charlie Yates, Grey Hunter, Tommy Yarborough, Hill, and Scott
Cooper and Louis Hipp went to High Point where they saw the Greensboro-High Point game. Dick Kelly went to Lenoir
and Stuart Oglesby went to Atlanta. W. G. Steagall, the Grand Master for this district of the fraternity, visited the
chapter for a short time Sunday. Miss Lib Belue was a visitor at the house Sunday afternoon. Wilson Coker and
John Barnhardt went to Concord for Saturday and Sunday.

Pi Kappa Phi’s Attend Dances At Salem College
Brothers Louis Hite and Harry Hendricks went to Winston-Salem where they attended dances given at Salem College. Pledge Brother Davey
went to his home in Winston-Salem. Charlie Yates, Grey Hunter, Tommy Yarborough, Hill, and Scott Cooper and Louis Hipp went
to High Point where they saw the Greensboro-High Point game. Dick Kelly went to Lenoir and Stuart Oglesby went to
Atlanta. W. G. Steagall, the Grand Master for this district of the fraternity, visited the chapter for a short time
Sunday. Miss Lib Belue was a visitor at the house Sunday afternoon. Wilson Coker and John Barnhardt went to Concord
for Saturday and Sunday.

Pikas Enjoy Stays At Home
Brothers Russell, Brinson, Latimer, McElwee, Allison, Stephenson, Turner, McClellan, Robinson, and Connor took off for Charlotte Saturday night. Pledge Brother
Crutchfield and Brothers Beatty and Gamvattes dated in Statesville. Brothers Lady, Youngblood, and Coltrane, and Pledge Brother George Mitchell went
to Chattanooga to see the famed Baylor-McCallie game. On Sunday night, a feed was held in the house.

S.A.E.'s Travel To Winston-Salem
Brothers Lem Kornegay, Hector MacLean, Hank Bahnson, Mark Cauble, George Ficklen, Tom Hackney, and Tom Cauble spent the week-end in
Winston-Salem, where they dated at Salem College. Charlie Smith, Tom Crichton, and Pete Marchant went to Greenville, S.C. Brother Jim
Thomas spent the week-end in Randolph-Macon in Lynchburg, Va., to Randolph-Macon for the week-end. Ken Parry journeyed to Sweet Briar
in Virginia. Bob Kellogg and Dan Gilliam went to Chapel Hill where they spent Saturday and Sunday. Cape Brewer went
to Charlotte. Brothers Stowe and Throop dated in Charlotte. Mr. and Mrs. Archie Taylor visited the Chapter Sunday night.

Phi Delts Visit In Rock Hill
Brother Jack Lee and Pledge George Wright spent the week-end in Asheville. Brothers Bill Jeaty, Locke Hunter, John McGeachy, and
Reid Harmon went to Rock Hill, S.C. Rea Tenny went to his home in Atlanta, Georgia. Mrs. McArthur was a
visitor in the house on Saturday. Charlie Luther went to Greenville, S.C., and Hind Welter went to his home in
Concord.

Kappa Sigs Visited By Grand Master
Ernest Ellison, Grand Master, visited the chapter in Charlotte. Brother Ralph Monger visited his family in Sanford. Brother Jim Thomas
spent the week-end in Randolph-Macon in Lynchburg, Va. Ken Parry journeyed to Sweet Briar in Virginia. Bob Kellogg and Dan
Gilliam went to Chapel Hill where they spent Saturday and Sunday. Cape Brewer went to Charlotte. Brothers Stowe and Throop
dated in Charlotte. Mr. and Mrs. Archie Taylor visited the Chapter Sunday night.

Phi Gam's Go To Virginia
Brother Jack Holland, Royal Branton, and Gene Liipfert went to Lynchburg, Va., to Randolph-Macon for the week-end. Ken Parry journeyed
to Sweet Briar in Virginia. Bob Kellogg and Dan Gilliam went to Chapel Hill where they spent Saturday and Sunday.
Cape Brewer went to Charlotte. Brothers Stowe and Throop dated in Charlotte. Mr. and Mrs. Archie Taylor visited the Chapter
Sunday night.

Sig Ep’s Are Hosts To Visitors
Joe Craver and Ed Watson attended the “Scollin Duds Dance” in Salisbury Saturday night. Fred Harbin spent the week-end at
his home, accompanied by Charlie Sample. Walter and Malcolm Wunz spent the week-end in Chattanooga, Tennessee where they attended the
Baylor-McCallie game. The following spent the week-end in their respective homes: Bill Hamilton, in Hemingway, S.C.; Jim Thompson, in Mocksville;
and Hugh Knox in Andrews, S.C. Tom Mullen visited in Greensboro over the week-end. Ed Cloyd journeyed to his home
in Raleigh, going from there to the Duke-State game. Bill Black and his family, from Shelbyville, visited the chapter on
Sunday. Miss Virginia Dewitt and Mary Holder were guests of Henry Keehn and Tom Galbreath Sunday.

Dr. Lyon Takes ‘Hope’
Dr. Lyon emphasized that hope is the first essential in the belief of a better future. Nature is the second
essential. Dr. J. W. MacConnell, college physician, has complete statistics on every student from the physical exams taken at the
first of the year. One of his hobbies is totaling various statistics. His most recent findings are about the freshman
class. Of this class, 18 percent use tobacco, 11 percent wear glasses, and 52 percent have had their tonsils and
adenoids removed.

RENT A CAR
ERNEST ELLISON, Inc.
Robt. E. Ellison
FIRE, CASUALTY, and MARINE INSURANCE
113-115 E. Fourth St.—Charlotte, N. C.

THE HIGH SCORE of Last Week Was Set By CHARLIE PEGRAM—149
SOUTHERN PITCH-PATCH Bowling Alleys
DAVIDSON, N. C.

FRATERNITIES ATTENTION!
We Cut Wood To Your Specified Size
FREE DELIVERY
Get Your Winter Supply Now
DAVIDSON ICE & FUEL CO.
