WEDNESDAY, OCT. 26, 1938 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Three

Question of the Week

A few of this country’s leading universities employ the system of unlimited cuts to all students. Such freedom would, of
course, have both its advantages and its faults, but would it be possible in a school the size of Davidson?
Princeton University, with one of the highest enrollments in the United States, maintains at the same time one of the
foremost scholastic ratings under this system. Could Davidson, with its small classes wherein the close relationship of professor and student
is an important factor, uphold her standing scholastically without required class attendance? Here is the question: What do you think
of the unlimited cut system as applicable to Davidson College?

Leo Neal Scott, Junior:
This system would hardly be successful for everyone in a school the size of Davidson. However, it would no doubt
be a good thing for juniors and seniors who have made a B average. These men would continue to maintain
their high standing while poorer students might tend to fall down in their work with non-restricted attendance.

Shaw Smith, Senior:
I'm entirely against such a program in respect to freshmen and sophomores, though perhaps it would be a good thing
for men in the two upper classes who have a high scholastic rating. If a man doesn’t realize the value
of study by his junior year, there’s little hope and not much need of forcing him to attend classes. The
system calls for an expulsion unless a man keeps up his studies so this makes a more definite check upon
his work than any cut system possibly could.

W. W. Hall Rose, Sophomore:
I'm thoroughly in favor of this measure except in the case of freshmen. Davidson's calibre of work will not permit
a man to cut a great deal without falling far behind, and expelling a man who fails checks upon his
work more accurately than the cut system.

Dick Shore, Sophomore:
I believe that unlimited cuts would never be effective in Davidson College. There would be a tendency to cut every
class with the result that about half the school would fail in their work. Perhaps unlimited cuts could be granted
juniors and seniors for maintaining a high average during their first two years.

Beverly Royster, Sophomore:
I am of the opinion that freshmen and most sophomores would not attend classes at all if this privilege were
granted the whole school. Juniors and seniors would have learned the value of study in their first two years and
might be given unlimited cuts profitably.

Walter Harper, Junior:
I think the unlimited cut system would be fine at Davidson College. Interest in their work and fear of falling
behind would cause most students to attend classes regularly. If the constant threat of being penalized for overcutting classes were
removed, the tendency to overcut classes so often would be less.

Bobby Williams, Sophomore:
To my point of view the unlimited cut system would be a decided step forward in the history of Davidson
College. Many of the colleges and universities in the United States have adopted this system almost universally, and we also
should follow the example of Oxford and Cambridge in this respect. I think that this system would prove the real
merit of its students.

Every man has three characters — that which he exhibits, that which he has, and that which he thinks he
has.

Ruts are easy to get into. The way to get out is a sharp turn in a new direction. You
may break a wheel, but you'll get out.

Student Body Hears Bishop Sunday Night
Father of J. C. Pfohl Delivers Sermon on Personality At Vespers

Bishop J. Kenneth Pfohl of the Moravian Church in Winston-Salem led the regular evening Vesper program last Sunday night. His
sermon was based on “The Three Questions that God Asks of Every Man.” After the responsive reading of the scripture,
which consisted of selections from Psalm 119, Dr. P. H. Gwynn of the faculty introduced Bishop Pfohl to the audience
“as the head of a great church,” and “as the father of one of our faculty members.”

Dr. Pfohl then began his sermon by saying that he had a question to which every man must seek the
answer, and this question is closely allied with two other questions. God was and is the greatest teacher in the
world, the Bishop pointed out, and He uses the question and answer system of teaching because He deals with intelligent
individuals who enjoy being mentally stimulated.

The first question was the question which God asked of Adam in the Garden of Eden just after he and
Eve had sinned. “Where art thou,” asked God. This question is as vital to us as it was to Adam.
In a world in which the conditions are such as they are today a man must take time out to
discover where he stands, and if he is not satisfied with his position, he must do something about it.

The second question was asked of Cain just after he had killed Abel. God asked Cain, “Where is thy brother?”
Does not this question face every individual today, not only in the war-torn areas of China and Spain, but even
here in America. Here in the peacefulness of our democracy, we are inclined to forget our fellowmen. We should realize
the challenge of this question and try to better ourselves accordingly.

The third question is found in Exodus 4:2, and it was asked of Moses when he was by the burning
bush. Moses had shown fear of carrying out the great plan of God, and suddenly he was met with the
question: “What is that which is in thine hand?” He had a rod in his hand, and we know by
God's miracle of changing the rod into a snake that Moses’ faith was strengthened. By this question God means for
us to take account of the talents and benefits that He gave us, and even though they may seem small,
through the grace of God they can become gigantic factors in the spreading of Christianity. No man should use as
an excuse for not doing something, “I am not gifted in any way,” for it is up to every man
to discover in ways he is gifted.

God gave every man an individ-
[Continued on Page Six]

Spanish Frat Initiates Two
Sigma Delta Pi Bids Jim Ballard, Jack Lee

On the evening of October 17 two new members were initiated into Davidson’s Omega chapter of Sigma Delta Pi, national
honorary Spanish fraternity. The initiates were Jim Ballard and Jack Lee. Charlie Roberts was asked to resign as secretary of
the chapter in order to accept the office of vice-president, to which he had been elected by acclamation. Jim Ballard
was elected to fill the position of Secretary vacated by Roberts.

Plans were made to attend a Spanish cinema in Charlotte the following Wednesday night. The chapter also decided to work
up and present a number of one-act plays as a special feature to be presented in conjunction with other colleges
who have groups especially interested in Spanish. Sigma Delta Pihas about forty chapters in various colleges and universities throughout the
United States, and its requirements for membership are based upon one semester of advanced Spanish beyond that required for graduation.
The present officers of Omega chapter are: Al Bixler, president; Charlie Roberts, vice-president; and Jim Ballard, secretary.

DRUG R.-CONDITIONED STORES

They Work Behind the Scenes

These Wildcat football managers, headed by Cage Brewer and Pete Marchant, have been doing an excellent piece of work this
year with the Wildcat football teams. Brewer and Marchant (front row) Senior Managers, have been aided by (second row) George
Grantham, Jeep Gladden, (third row) Charlie Mashburn, Bub Coltrane, Bill Burch, and Ed Jackson.

Committee Collects Faculty Publications

The newly formed Faculty Committee on Productive Scholarship at a meeting last week decided to mimeograph lists of faculty publications
which have been reported to the committee. These publications include books and articles published in scholarly journals. The committee also
decided to ask the members of the faculty to hand in complete lists of their miscellaneous writings, including articles published
in newspapers, articles published in church papers, educational bulletins, and periodicals of general interest.

College Again Heard On Air

Fourth Program Includes Many College Songs

Davidson College was on the air again Tuesday night at 9:15 for a fifteen-minute program over WBT of Charlotte. The
program was announced by Professor Thane McDonald and was under the musical direction of Professor James Christian Pfohl. Professor Pfohl
also conducted the Davidson Symphonic Band in the series of college songs it played. Speaking and commenting on the news
of the college was R. O. Kellogg. The entire program was as follows: “O Davidson,” by Shields; “On, Brave Old
Army Team,” by Egner; the “Victory March” of Notre Dame by Shea; University of Southern California’s song “Fight On,” by
Grant; and news commentary by R. O. Kellogg. Bigelow’s “Our Director March,” Furman’s song; Georgia Tech's [Continued on Page Six]

For “HER” HALLOWEEN: Send CANDY By Nunnally at COLLEGE PHARMACY Davidson's Drug Store “Service”

Allison Leads Photo Society

Parker and Kunz Also To Fill Positions

At the first meeting of the Photographic Club, held Wednesday night a week ago, the following officers were elected for
the coming session: President, Rufus Allison; secretary-treasurer, Mac Parker. Walter Kunz was made custodian of the darkroom. Professor Lyons will
continue to serve as faculty adviser. The remainder of the meeting was taken up with an informal discussion of prints
submitted by members of the club. At its last meeting, the club was fortunate to have as its speaker Mr.
Dunbar, of the firm Dunbar and Daniel, photographers, of Raleigh. Mr. Dunbar, here for the [Continued on Page Six]

THE HERALD PRESS Incorporated —Printers of— “Scripts ’n Pranks” 225 S. Church St. Charlotte, N. C. Phone 3-6608

Completion of Layout Announced By Brewer

Central Theme of Quips and Cranks to Be Withheld Until Publication

All pictures marking divisions in the 1939 Quips and Cranks have been finished, bringing to completion the entire layout of
the book, Editor Cage Brewer announced recently. Plans and designs for the various sections of the annual have been finished,
and the various photographs and drawings are in final form now. The theme around which the sections will center will
not be disclosed until publication. [Continued on Page Six]

Currie Chooses Ezekiel

Business Club Picks Turner, Alcorn, Doty

Andy Turner, M. H. Alcorn, and John Doty were named vice president, secretary, and treasurer respectively at the second meeting
of the Davidson Commerce Club held last Wednesday in Phi Hall. George Jones, who was elected president last year, presided
at the meeting. New members for the coming year were discussed. Bids will be issued this week. There was also
some discussion as to becoming affiliated with a national Commerce Club. According to Jones, the club hopes to make this
year one of its best. It is planning to have several noted speakers during the coming year.

FULL LINE OF MEATS THIS WEEKEND - Free Delivery Dial 5041 J. K. Hampton Grocery Thurs.-Fri.-Sat.

Drama Aflame With the Thrill of Flight!

“SKY GIANT” with RICHARD DIX CHESTER MORRIS JOAN FONTAINE

STUDENTS - FACULTY AND TOWNSPEOPLE

Monday-Tuesday

A Novel Solution for Happiness Though Married

“VACATION FROM LOVE” with DENNIS O'KEEFE FLORENCE RICE

WHEN IN CHARLOTTE Park at Moore’s Parking Lot 114 West Sixth Street

Quartet Here Next Vespers Service To Differ From Usual Sunday Program

On Sunday evening, October 30, the Sunday evening vesper service will be led by the Reverend Mr. and Mrs. A.
J. McKelway of Pinehurst, and the Reverend Mr. and Mrs. H. V. Gibson of Sanford. The program for this service
will be very different from the average program. The two ministers and their wives form a quartet which will sing
hymns and other types of sacred music. After the singing of several hymns by the quartet, one of the ministers
will preach a short sermon. This quartet, which was here several years ago, has always been well received. [Continued on
Page Six]

Selecting the 14th through the 18th verses of the eighth chapter of Ezekiel as his text, Prof. Archibald Currie addressed
the regular meeting of the student Sunday School class last Sunday. Prof. Currie chose Leadership as his subject, explaining that
experience has proved that the college students of today will be the leaders in the next generation. In the text,
the prophet Ezekiel is telling about the idolatry practice in Jerusalem. The blame is placed on the leaders. They were
supposed to look after the best interests of the people, but instead, they led the people to the worship of
idols. The leaders were “with their backs toward the temple of the Lord, and their faces toward the east.” Naturally,
disaster followed. “The progress of a race toward a goal, in which the great mass follows their leader, is high
or low according to the leadership they follow,” explained Prof. Currie. This fact is true in the case of America,
as in every other country. In the colonial days, the minister was the leader. His avowed purpose was to bring
every individual to righteousness, but he forgot this and became more interested in the punishment of witches. The ministers stood
“with their backs toward the temple of the Lord, and their faces toward the east,” and the American Revolution followed.
After a slow, tedious recovery, the lawyer became the social, political, and economic leader. He inspired the admiration and ambition
of the American mass of people. [Continued on Page Six]

Aicel in a STETSON

Its wider brim and lower crown make this hat a style favorite for this Fall. Wear it with the crown
creased and dented... brim snapped down in front...

EFIRD’S Men’s Shop Street Floor

Make Your Shoes Look Like NEW BUFF SHOE SHOP DAVIDSON, N. C.

Wednesday-Thursday

A Demand Encore Engagement!

CECILE B. DeMILLE’S “SIGN OF THE CROSS” with FREDERICK MARCH CLAUDETTE COLBERT

BROADWAY

GET YOUR DRUG ITEMS OR ACCESSORIES AT WHITE DRUG CO. Davidson, N. C. “DAVIDSON’S OLDEST AND BEST”

WED.—OCT 26— TOUCHDOWN ARMY

THURSDAY—OCT. 27— LISTEN DARLING

FRIDAY—OCT. 28— FIVE OF A KIND

SATURDAY—OCT. 29— A MAN TO REMEMBER

DAVIDSON THEATRE Davidson, N. C.
