Page Six THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, APRIL 20, 1938

Your Film Report Card
By HENRY B. BAKER

The quality of each picture is determined by the number of stars—more stars mean a better picture.

Wed.-Thur. April 20-21—
“ADVENTURES OF TOM SAWYER” — Tommy Kelly, Marcia Jones and Ann Gillis. The well-known story.

Fri.-Sat. April 22-23—
“COLLEGE SWING” — An all-star cast including Betty Grable and Jackie Coogan. One of the latest releases.

Mon.-Tues. April 25-26—
“JEZEBEL” — Bette Davis, Henry Fonda and George Brent. A beautiful story.

Next Week—
“SNOW WHITE AND THE SEVEN DWARFS” — Enough’s been said.

IT HAPPENED! YES, SIR!
Read the following three short anecdotes about Drath G.

ADD EMBARRASSING MOMENTS:
When the Harvard University sponsored a piano concert by Maria Sanroma, a student acquired the reputation of being a great
pianist. When he was asked to play, he played “Chopsticks.”

INTELLECTUAL NOTE PROGRESS
Your Only 5 & 10
SOUTHERN 5c & 10c Store
DAVIDSON, N. C.

PLACE GIVEN LOTHERY
(Continued from Page 1)

CITY CAFE & DINING ROOM
“WHERE FRIENDS MEET TO EAT”
SPENSER BROS.
MOORESVILLE, N. C.
For Frat. Parties - Capacity 90 People

Thursday, April 21—
“Adventures of Tom Sawyer”
Friday-Saturday, April 22-23—
“College Swing”
Monday-Tuesday, April 25-26
“Jezebel” With BETTE DAVIS

Students In, Reviewer
Chesterfield Sponsors Expert In Broadcast Over NBC Network

Baseball fans who like real enthusiasm as well as knowledge of the game from your sports commentator, meet Paul Douglas,
who fits in perfectly. Chesterfield’s baseball commentator will review the game players nightly at 6:30 p.m. starting April 18th with
the season's opening, in a quarter-hour broadcast over 50 National Broadcasting Company stations from the Atlantic Coast to the Rocky
Mountains. Douglas is not only one of the country’s best sports commentators but a real fan who never misses a
game if he can help it. He daily roams the parks, knows all the players, and gets a highly detailed
account of the games.

Paul Douglas, ace reviewer and enthusiast in the realm of baseball, resumes his nightly comments over the NBC network this
week. His opening broadcast of Chesterfield’s 1938 daily sports resume will come from Boston, where Douglas will come on the
air after viewing the New York Yankees and the Boston Red Sox in their American League 1938 debut. He will
have as his guest at the mike the Yankee southpaw star, Vernon “Lefty” Gomez, who no doubt will have the
opening day mound assignment of the world champions. Later on in the season, Douglas will have “Gabby” Hartnett, Chicago Cubs
catcher, and “Ducky” Medwick, star outfielder of the St. Louis Cardinals, and other diamond stars as guests.

Science Films Shown
On Friday of this week, the Physics and Chemistry departments of Davidson College will present three films: “Sulphur,” “There Is
Only One,” and “Heritage.” “Sulphur” will show the modern mining and refining processes. “There Is Only One” deals with the
beauties in architecture of our nation’s capital, Washington, D.C., and “Heritage” about the advance and enlightenment of our civilization.

KIT LINKSMEN
(Continued from Page 4)

Marshall should be an excellent point getter under the Nassau system of scoring.

COMEDY PRESENTED BY RT
(Continued from Page Three)

State Teachers College had a long run at the Grand.1;G [heater in Paris a few Paul Douglas To Resume Shaw
Picture’ Regular Baseball Series Vespers Led By Stewart Chapel Hill Pastor Is Speaker At Vespers Dr. Donald H. Stewart, pastor
of the Presbyterian Church at Chapel Hill, spoke at Vesper Service last Sunday evening. He attacked this subject from several
different aspects and gave a very interesting address. Dr. Stewart was laboring under difficulty as he spoke, for he had
been holding services since sunrise that morning and had become rather hoarse. As a former student of Davidson, Dr. Stewart
felt quite at home on our campus and knew many people.

Y.M.C.A. Deputations During the past week, Monroe Wicker and Watson Street spoke before the Kannapolis High School in a series
of seven services that correspond to our spring service here. Wicker was sent at the request of the Christian Club,
which holds a drive every year as a forerunner to urge non-church students to join some church. Wicker spoke on
the subject "Our Human World" before him and stressed the individual's need for Christ, while emphasizing the life that was
achieved through personal work.

Oglesby, composed of Stuart Beall, Jim Ballard, and John Wilson, Duke University and Military Institute in 1939 will celebrate the
anniversary. University of Kentucky students walk 100,000 miles per month. CCC workers are taking a new course in biology in
University of Virginia laboratories.

AMONG THE GREEKS (Continued from Page Three) The chapter house last week presented Miss Doris Mayhew, who was the guest
of Ed Watson. Wes Lyons, Crave Walter, and Thomasson, aided by donations, painted a portrait of the late P. in
Salisbury Monday night. Fitzgerald, Bill Hamilton, and Bill Rader were also on athletic trips. Walter Helin, the librarian at the
University of North Carolina and Duke, came over the weekend.

GOLFERS BEGIN (Continued from Page 4) The captain is well in the running for individual honors. The long play of
Cooper and Pittman should serve to make the team possible contenders for the championship. The feature of the crowd was
the handsome face of the man, which offered a target for all the girls to shoot at, but as a
photograph, it never attained the same fanfare as he did thirty years ago. He plays football and is a fair
medium halfback. He was recently elected to the highest office the student body can confer.

TAKE IT EASY (Continued from Page 2) The Governor and his train were proceeding down the aisle last week when
someone was heard to murmur: "Where's the body?" My roommate says he sleeps like a sleepwalker. He will get out
of bed if the phone rings and rings. A sleepy Gasteiger got out of bed, stumbled to the phone, took
down the hook, and mumbled, "Cut out that racket!" The phone rang more that night. 'Tis but a short span
from puppy love to life's end.

Dr. C. K. Brown says go ahead and have a war; there is enough parking space.

All Latest HITS On Your Favorite RECORDS! Come in to Hear Them again. His fraternity has a great deal to
do with it. He is tall and weighs about 150 pounds, with 'nigger hair.' THUMB NAIL SKETCH — the first
place his greatness is evident. Tennessee is about five feet nine inches.

Your Drug Store ANDREWS MUSIC CO. COLLEGE PHARMACY 231 N. Tryon Street Charlotte, N. C.

Copyright 1938, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co. Chesterfield opens the season with more pleasure and gives millions of smokers the
same play every day. You'll want to hear Paul Douglas broadcasting the scores and highlights of the games—Lefty Gomez, first
guest star. It’s always more pleasure with Chesterfields... more pleasure for listeners... more pleasure for smokers. Chesterfield’s mild ripe tobaccos—home-grown
and aromatic Turkish—and pure cigarette paper... the best ingredients a cigarette can have... THEY SATISFY. Chesterfield, you'll find MORE PLEASURE
in Chesterfield: milder, better taste.
