| WEDNESDAY, FEB. 23, 1938. | Track Team | Leaves For Field Meet Indoor Meet at Chapel Hill Tracksters To
Compete In Track and Field Meet THE DAVIDSONIAN Flashy Wildcat Cagers Davidson Sports Will Attract Eight Davidson Men Frosh Beaten
Twice on Trip N. C. State Overcome 26-25; Frosh Defeated By Deaclets, 42-26 The Davidson freshman basketball team again hit
the road last week but were turned back by the Wake Forest and N.C. State freshman teams. The score of
the Wake Forest game was 42-26 in favor of the Demon Deaclets, while State won over the Wildkittens by the
score of 26-25 in a very thrilling encounter.

The Wake Forest team ran up a tremendous lead in the first few minutes of the game, and it wasn't
until the second half that the Wildkittens began to hit their stride and actually outplayed the Deaclets. However, the score
was too intense against them, and there was no chance for them to pull up. The shooting of John Lett
with 14 points, Nelson with 12 points was the high spot of the game. Jim Hoge was again the high
scorer for the Davidson frosh with 11 points, while Shore made 6.

A goal by G.B. Howell in the last minute of play was the deciding factor in the contest between the
Wolflets and Wildkittens. Up to this time the contest had been a see-saw affair that had all of the spectators
on edge. From the first one team would have the upper hand and then the other would be ahead, and
then when in the last minute Davidson was leading by one point many of the State followers lost heart, but
not the courageous players, and finally Howell got his hands on the ball and shot from the side-lines. When the
ball settled in the basket pandemonium broke loose in the State stands, and a few seconds later the whistle blew
signifying the end of the game.

The Wildkittens will re-engage the Wake Forest frosh here next Monday night as a preliminary to the varsity game. This
game will be the last in the season for the Davidson yearlings. Coach Laird’s charges have a record of four
wins to five losses.

Davidson Will Act As Host to Nine N. C. Teams; Lees-McRae Favored

Davidson's varsity wrestling team dropped a close match, 10 to 7, to North Carolina State Saturday in Raleigh after piling
up a safe lead through the first four matches. Skinny Lowrance dropped the opening match to State's Hunter, but the
Wildcats gained decisions in the next three matches to take the lead. Terror Telford, Joe Craver, and Graham McFadyen all
gained decisions in these three matches, and at this stage of the match the Wildcats apparently had a comfortable lead.

However, the State matmen came back strong to cop the last three matches and the victory. Clarence Shimmer, State's captain,
gained a decision over Leonard Fort, and Ted Johnson, State, pinned Gam Leggett. State's third and deciding win was with
a decision in the 165-pound class. Coon, State football star, was slated to have met Howard McFadden in the feature
bout of the evening but forfeited his match. Coach Herman Hickman had previously announced that he would use Coon only
in the event State was trailing.

The Davidson freshman wrestling team suffered a 30-10 defeat at the hands of the powerful North Carolina State yearlings last
Saturday. Ed Whisnant and Bruce Kennay were the only Davidson men to win their matches.Here is the cleaned OCR text,
preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

that or it! Heyes; yer away [the opportunity of seeing their pop-] 126 and 135 pounders, scored falls. In looking
over the vast season an ef: ela ular captain fight for the only Davidson points, while Lee “Me iN if
tt by he r Heh ut see C Vilas EA worth | ry zs the Wolflets won five falls and
one: teen before the azure-clad Phi. Hates Bill Snelli and Dick Arnold. O T forfeit for their total. Rudisill Returns
Dydhig vey Gave AMAT Gi eyhie oldie LaL GS und muld be” top a rr Reis ace ae THEI Se
ae | ee Ss n [Op Bob Parker in the 175 pound class. All of which reminds us that ft)
(jpcoy) starred the winners. ake fit aan ball a Se Bei mininte 5 ey A semanr looked best for the
Kitten losers, won't be long until the spring sports. te ts, wl Oscar Joyner look-!, a ey a ote ap
a Rae ri vale Captain Dave Warden, Official selection of the eight teams to play in the annual Southern Conference
basketball tournament will be made in Lynchburg, beaut a Bae a ee a are getting into shape, the golfers) \
nae F i ss en; amel McDuffie and Norton are hee work, nae the baseball. In the finals of Pi
Kappa Phi, Davidson was without the services of John Donaldson, star 145 diamond team took a boost when “Bul-|;),,.0 ¢))j5;)
; hasta iirc tea tournament, Oak Ridge took a spirited contest from Belmont Abbey in TER encesor any 0 Be
Wd ©) coveted positions, While Clemson, —; fasthe sacar weninnten: a ENO ee 4. Dat eben? Ithe last minute of
play with a long Vere Maryland, Richmond, Duke, and Che Smiths are over-running the et r |hasket from the center
of the floor, 2 Washington & Lee hold the edge}campus at University of Nebraska. nthe ‘past_tennl ele artsy | All
-Frat Team 4h v« ry k C a r | in the race for other berths. Dav-] There are six
Robert Smiths and been a Most successful rt oO | S I a rf AN A © C idson is
in eleventh place and holds | four Virginia Smiths | attending ee Aun aed y eae | Here is the
“All Fraternity. basket- | Baseball Card i a 4% Indoor Confere el Hill a slim mathematical chance of ek- classes.
And two of the Virgins sity dronped only soit p | pat team as chosen by Referee =| RIG; Ing
out a spot. Smiths belong to hte same sorority. that to the Univ it ( an Iverson and Junior \leorn,
| ie fine y0ae i ' ‘hal \y 6 urg, Va; vania by a 4 to 5 score rj with
the number of point cored) ae Ee Iseh s RMER ay i : 1a lees ——— KS as anyone can’
remember each man | a Ree | 2 has yet to-end-up on the rong side | First Team H peut
Ue, i He ( ; f iy At ics ig D " | | TODAY’S POPULAR SPORT of the Win-loss
column. However aie Pectin a ra | Ain 1 9—-Duke—here “Pliny the Elder” is the Roman | B O W
L I N G ! entirely too little attention h Cha Stepan 8} npr SUFI Teeny name feral tri k-performing
rat _ : : paid to the condition of t1 <. Sigs +| Baal Me ay : ae ai tan
be age ae i On Saturday Nights—or any other night—take her out Nipmccurte fine courts. especially Delt Rush OeUN TO.
ener Be tae, ere ane to bowl. She'll like that! Take her where she’ll feel the upper ones, should be
kept in wW ee tee aril 26-N._C.. Univerdity—Chapel Hills ATAU RS OUR ESOL at home. a : jiWanntonithbeentinnsennine econ eam
April 27—Duke—Durham VVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVYYVY: Fee ee EERIE (Gate cai aen | Basney™ katlenty “Pika ss Apsit-as=Wake" Fareat-<Wake _Eareat 1 $|\]| THE
HEALTH THE CHARLOTTE ‘3: Ree eae Locke White—K. Sig 16) May 2—Clemson—here B | s | —AND— tinue this good
peered Bill Masques Delt igi (May SetWake “Foresteliere Oowling. CENTER BOWLING CENTER ee —_ @— a Nick Nicholson—S, A, E
22 | May 10 1an—here i A course for parents of Univer-|Spencer Goodman—Pi Kappa Phi. 14 May 12 Casein har
Billiards! 1211 South Tryon 112 W. First St. sity of Washington students, be- Team Scoring May 14+-N. C, State—here —
lieved the only one of its kind in]S > 71 Points REX RECREATION: the United States, has become so ae
: a Ee If it’s romance you're after, girls, —and— be oS popular in this its second year, that es
eee me wear white. Experimenters have 20th CENTURY BOWLING H it is limited to parents of freshmen For 10 years
a University of Ala-|found girls dressed in white get H FAUL & CRYMES, Inc. only, Discussions cover such sub-|pama sophomore
phas pursued the| more offers of marriage. White, ALE CONDITIONED: == Sporting Goods == jects as student activities and prob-|
cjeanest hobby on record. He has|they say, is connected with moon- YEAR ROUND i 415 South Tryon St. Charlotte, N.
C. lems, adjustment to university con- sample bars of soap garnered from|light; moonlight with romance, and FREE TELEPHONE en e
ditions. 20 states. finally romance-With marriage. OAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAS [.errrenennen orm “T° ] Luckless Bask Drop Heartbreaking Decision to Clemson Junior College
Tourney Here This Week-End Page Four 5 eteers Wildcat Quintet Conquers College of Charleston, 40-23; Loses To Wake Forest, N.
C. State, and Citadel By Close Scores Davidson's varsity basketballers did not fare so well during the past week, starts.
losing four in five The week, however, was a thrilling one-point games feature of the loss to Clemson fast stepping
quint With the count tied at 34 all, the "Cats, seeming to be on edge, failed in four attempts from
the charity stripe and a few seconds later, Me Fadden, tall Tiger free to 34 Cowan Starts Fireworks ace, dropped
in a throw win the to game, 35 Davidson started the ‘fireworks early. Cowan dropped in seven markers and Iverson
four before Clemson had caught their breath The Tigers finally “came to” and the score stood 21-16 in Davidson's favor
at the half-time. The last half turned into a nip and tuck af fair with the lead changing hands several
times, and Iverson the ‘Cats’ While MePadden, Clemson's sopho- more, Cowan led the Onslaught for Was casily the outstanding Tiger
threat. Deacons Take Tn the first game of last week, the ‘Cats bowed ta’ Wake — Forest's mighty Deacons by
a 45-37 score Jim Waller and Boyd Owen, close- ly followed by Apple, hit the basket for 38 points between
them to make it easy for the Baptists. Cowan, kept the ‘Cats in the running with 12 markers to his
credit, but the Deacons, who were leading 24-18 at the half, could not be halted. On the following night the
‘Cats were again unable to halt the onslaught of N.C. State’s Red Terriers and ended on the short end of
a 46-34 score. Mann and Berry hit the hoop for 16 and 9 points respective ly for the State quint,
while Iver- son and Cowan shoved in 13 and 12, The of the game was the floorwork of the two,
smallest men on the floor, Hill for State and Tice for the ’Cats. Breaks Loosing Streak Davidson-ended its five game
los- ing streak against the City of Char feature leston five, in a slow battle that ended 40 to 23
in the ‘Cats favor, Tice led the ‘Cats with 15 points. The Shepardmen grabbed an early lead that was never
threatened by the South Citadel eked out their second yie- “Cats by a 28 to 26 margin, in a nip
and tuck affair held Charleston the following night. Burrows led the Bulldog attack with 15, markers while Iverson had 7
points to his credit Carolina crew. tory of the year against the in Hicks, and Kiesewetter les- the ‘Cat chances
when fouled out in the final half, sened they A “barefoot day” — is each year at Oklahoma Jr. College.
The students and faculty must shed observed their shoes and pad about the campus on nude feet. OUR “TRUE CONFESSION”
IS—THIS PICTURE IS DEFINITELY “SCREWY!” CLYDE LUCAS AND HIS ORCH. PETE SMITH NOVELTY
