Coach Whittle, grooming some of his cinder men, has already been preparing for the Southern Conference indoor meet next week.
With a year of experience behind him, Boo Walker ought to go places this season. Whittle is planning to use
him only in the mile, while Woodward, Parcell, and Telford will take care of the two-mile. Long-legged Bill Black is
also showing improvement as he clears the high-jump bar.

Baseball prospects look brighter than they have for years. The weak spot seems to be first base. Jim Dunford looks
like a sure bet for first, Hemphill for shortstop, and Sam will play third while there will be a good
scramble for the other two infield positions. Outfielders John Rudisill, Tubby Hand, and Fielding Clark will be back, and Teeny
Lafferty may return to his old spot in center field. Hugh Verner, who pounded the ball in Ruthian style on
the Kitten team last spring, and others are likely to give the veterans a fight for their positions in the
garden before it is all over.

WEDNESDAY, FEB. 16, 1938

Cat Runners Prepare For Indoor Meet
Tryouts to Decide Who Will Compete at Chapel Hill; Carolina Favored

Time-trials will be held this week and early next week to compose the team to be sent to Chapel Hill.
In the past, the boys have used the board track on the intramural field almost exclusively, but the good weather
has made use of it unnecessary. Woodward, Parcell, and Bill Hick have been training for long distances, and Bill Wicker
has shown low times on the hurdles.

Daily tryouts go on for the football team. The big problem is still building a backfield out of tight material.
Bill Davis is doing some good running. The surprise of the season is Bits Watkins. Hampered by injuries for two
years, this diminutive lad is making the coaches sit up and take notice. One of our mentors was heard to
say the other day that Bits is among the best blockers on the team. He's so short that he doesn’t
have to bend over to block. He just runs under ‘em!

Davidson Freshmen Lose to UNC
Whisnant, Kenney, and Donaldson Take Matches as Davidson Loses

Davidson freshmen wrestlers lost a hard match to the University of North Carolina yearlings, 25-11. The match was a preliminary
to the varsity event Friday. Ed Wilson took the 145 class when Kitten was disqualified for stalling, but John Doughty
regained the Davidson lead with a pin over Roehrs in eight minutes and 45 seconds. The Tar Heels, however, copped
the remaining matches to go ahead for good, as Forrest, Torrey, and Merror all pinned their men. Donaldson and Whisnant
remained undefeated as they registered their second decisive victories of the season. Both men were high school state champions before
their entrance into Davidson.

Seventy-five per cent of the males at Kent State University prefer brunette women, according to their campus humor magazine.

Wildcat Grapplers Lose Battle to Carolina 21-11
SAE’S Capture Mural Crown

Captain Howard McFadyen and Esmond Bailey are just a tangle of arms and legs as they wrestle it out on
the mat while Coach Parks Harrison looks on. McFadyen turned in his best performance of the season against Carolina Friday
when he pinned Clemments in 2 minutes and 47 seconds.—(Courtesy of Charlotte News).

The Davidson grapplers lost their Big Five engagement with the North Carolina Tar Heels last Friday afternoon when they bowed
out 21-11. The "Cats registered wins in the 135-pound class, 155-pound class, and unlimited. In the unlimited division, Capt. Howard
McFadyen required only two minutes and 47 seconds to pin Clemments. At 135, Joe Craver remained undefeated for the current
season when he decisively decisioned Patrick, Carolina star. Leonard Fort held his own in the 155-pound class when he gained
a decision over Davis. Ed Ellis, only recently out of the infirmary, put up a splendid battle in the 165-pound
bout, but his long illness had weakened him to such an extent that he tired in the closing minutes of
his match with James. Skinny Lowrance, wrestling for the second straight year in the 186-pound class, put up a game
battle against Carolina's Captain Tankersley, but the latter, one of the best grapplers in the south, proved too much for
him. Harris 118, Pitts 145, and Woodson 175, gained falls for Carolina by pinning McIntyre, Bailey, and Gamble, respectively.

The department is also getting estimates on a 16 mm sound projecting outfit. This purchase is to be made in
order to show educational films of the 16 mm dimension. The department has recently purchased a new modern microscope. This
is of the highest type research instrument and will be used to show advanced students what is best in a
modern microscope. It is of the binocular type and is equipped with a dark field and with polarizing accessories. The
physics and chemistry departments now have a 35 mm sound microscope projector, and after the smaller type machine is bought
by the biology department, the number of educational movies which the science departments are able to offer the students will
be increased.

BOWLING!
On Saturday Nights—or any other night—take her out to bowl. She’ll like that! Take her where she’ll feel at home.
THE HEALTH CENTER
12114 South Tryon
THE CHARLOTTE BOWLING CENTER
112 W. First St.

Teams Fail To Score In Scrimmage
Defense Features Play; Capt. Warden, Gasteiger and Davis Star

The Reds and Grays battled to a scoreless tie in the second intra-squad scrimmage of the spring football program held
Saturday on Richardson Field. Practically all 60 members of the squad participated in the affair, which saw neither team able
to gather enough punch to push over a score. Neither team threatened to score throughout the game, which shows that
the backfield will be the big question of next year. While the offense was lacking, the defensive play of both
lines featured the tilt. Several times the defensive line seemed to surge through and smother the opposing backs before their
plays matured. Captain Warden at tackle was not to be stopped. His smashing, slashing type of play looms him to
be a tower in the defensive side next year. Harry Gasteiger, shifted from end to guard, seems to have taken
over his new assignment with renewed vigor that places him as an outstanding aspirant for that position next year. Luke
Graham, Bill Snelling, Bill Johnson, George Richmond, and Dick Arnold all showed up well in the line play, and Coach
McEver feels that there is no weakness in this department.the main threat. With Pitts clearing the path before him with
some good blocking, Davis got off to several nice runs. The longest run of the day, however, went to Frank
Harrison, who took the pigskin and ran forty yards upfield before being stopped. Bob McClellan, Bill Bolin, Bill Beaty, Fred
Stair, and Tubby Hand also looked good in their defensive positions, especially in the backfield. Both groups took to the
air in an effort to score, with both teams driving deep into the other's territory, but the passes that seemed
to click so well in midfield failed to connect for a score.

Cowan Leads Team Scoring
Jim Hogg Leads Frosh Quint

Of the fourteen games played, records show that the 'Cats have scored a total of 486 markers to 431 for
the opposition. In the win and loss column, however, the 'Cats have broken even. They have won seven and lost
the same number.

For the Kitten quint, Jim Hogg, flashy forward, is pacing the team. To date, he has flipped in 34 field
goals and 19 free tosses, giving him a sum of 87 points. Billy Turner is second with 40 points, while
Johnson with 22, Niven with 15, Shore and Taylor with 14 each, follow in order. The frosh have played nine
games and have emerged victorious in five, with a grand total of 226 points scored, against 253 points scored against
them.

Bowling! Billiards!

Senior Guard Lawrence Reid, one of the best defensive men on the Wildcat squad, is a senior and is playing
his third year for Davidson.

Greeks Begin Cage Tourney
Consolation Series Gets Under Way as SPE’s Defeat Phi Gams, 26-16

SPE's defeated the Phi Gams, 26 to 16. The Phi Gams led at the end of the first quarter, 6-4,
and were tied at the half. The SPE’s put on the heat and got eight points to none for the
Phi Gams in the third period and led the rest of the way. For the SPE’s, Harper and Sample were
high with eight points each, closely followed by Fitzgerald. Jim Dorsett paced the losers with six points. The SPE’s, by
winning this game, got the right to play the winner of the Phi Delt-Beta game for a place in the
final column. In the other bracket, the Pi Kappa Phi's advanced to the finals via a bye as there were
only five teams in the consolations. This choice was made by drawing straws so that each team had an equal
chance to reach the finals without actual competition.

Golfers Begin Practice Soon
Henson Maples to Captain Davidson Foursome

The unseasonably warm weather of the past few weeks has caused Davidson's golfing hopefuls to turn their attention toward the
approaching team try-outs and the intercollegiate season. Last year's graduation left only one member of last year's crack team in
school, namely, Capt. Henson Maples, and early indications point to a weaker team than last year, which was runner-up to
Duke in the Southern Conference tournament. However, even this cloud has the proverbial silver lining as there are several other
boys in school who may be able to fill the shoes of the graduated linkmen. Besides Maples, there are Raymond
Pittman, Yates Faison, Jimmie Cooper, and Nicholson. It appears certain that Maples and Pittman will play, but the race for
the other two positions is wide open. Maples recently won the amateur tournament at Pinehurst, and Pittman should be as
good as anybody in the conference. The team tryouts will be played at the Charlotte Country Club on March 1st
and 2nd and will be medal play over 36 holes, after which the team will make an extended trip to
South Carolina, Georgia, and Florida.

Tracksters Prepare For Conference Meet

Locals Lose Conference Cage Frays
Blue Devils and Phantoms Take Two Important Games From 'Cats

During the past week, Davidson's varsity basketeers suffered setbacks in two important tilts, losing to Duke's up-and-coming Blue Devils by
a 52-28 score and to the loop-leading Carolina five, 41-30. In the first fray against the Duke five, the 'Cats
seemed to have lost their "shooting eyes" and the Blue Devils grabbed a lead that they held throughout the whole
game. It was exactly the opposite of when the two had met earlier in the season at Winston-Salem with the
'Cats topping the Blue Devils in easy fashion. Mouse Edwards, 6 foot 3 inch center, opened the fracas with a
quick basket and the fireworks started. Before the 'Cats could catch their breath, the Devils piled up a comfortable margin
that was not to be overcome.

'Cats Stage Rally

The 'Cats came back at the beginning of the second half with renewed vigor and put on a scoring spree
that edged them closer to the Devils, but soon Edwards combined with O'Mara and Hoffman to put the game on
ice. Iverson and Hicks, with 6 and 5 points respectively, led the 'Cat attack, while Edwards with 13 led the
Duke five.

On the following night, the 'Cats, out to avenge an earlier heartbreaking one-point defeat, lost another heartbreaker to the Carolina
White Phantoms. Several times during the tilt, the 'Cat charges, led by Ben Dilworth, held short and scant margins, making
it a "nip and tuck" affair.

Nip and Tuck

Dilworth, cagy sophomore star, started the Carolina fireworks with a neat lay-in shot soon after the initial whistle sounded, but
Davidson's Iverson retaliated with a long overhanded shot. Carolina led by a close margin, 20-17, at the half. This lead
was short-lived, and minutes after the second period began, the 'Cats were leading 25-23. Ruth and Bershak combined to put
Carolina in the lead again, which it held throughout the remainder of the game. Ned Iverson, 'Cat forward, seemed to
have found his range in this contest and led the Davidson hosts with 11 points, with J. D. Hicks running
second with 8. The floor play of Kiesewetter was also a shining light. Dilworth with 14, Ruth with 7, and
Bershak with 8 points to their credit led the spirited Carolina aggregation.

Frosh Quintet Drops Couple
Duke and Carolina Defeat Kitten Basketeers

Davidson's kitten quintet, on its first overnight trip, suffered two defeats at the hands of superior Duke and Carolina frosh
fives during the past week. In the first game played on the Duke court, the kittens failed to hit their
stride and, before they could get started, the Duke first-year men had piled up a comfortable lead that carried them
to a 42-10 victory. Jim Hogg, 'Cat forward, led the futile attack with four markers and a nice floor game
to his credit. For the Dukes, Holley, giant center, led the attack with 10 points, while Ed Shokes turned in
a neat floor game.

The following night, the kittens proved to be a new threat and held the strong Carolina first-year team to a
well-earned 33-22 victory. After a slow start that netted them only 10 points during the first half, the Kittens turned
on the heat, scoring 12 points while holding the Carolina threats to 13. George Glamack, center, and Ralph, guard, led
the Carolina attack with 10 and 11 points respectively. For the Kittens, Hogg again led the scoring with a total
of six points to his credit, while Billy Turner turned in a neat floor game. The defensive work of Johnson
and Niven was also a shining factor of the fray.

A U. of Washington freshman, listing his activities for the student yearbook, said he belonged to "Flat Feet, earache, and
appendicitis once." He had mistaken "affiliations" for "afflictions."
