“Boo” Walker Will Edit 1938-39 Handbook

VOL. XXV

President Lafferty Has Installation of Student Councilmen

New Men Take Office In Student Council Room Friday Afternoon

The rising Student Council, the election of which was completed last week, was installed last Friday afternoon in the Student Council room by this year’s president “Teeny” Lafferty.

I. E. “Boo” Walker has been elected as editor of the 1938-39 Handbook. Tom Abbou, Warren Gaw, Sherrard Rice, Perry Sloan, and Sam Webb were newly elected to places on the council. Brewer was eliminated on the final ballot, polling 10 votes to Gaw's 10, Sloan's 105, and Rice’s and Webb's 104. Abbou was elected on the first ballot.

Buck Powell, Sam Spencer, and David Sprunt will represent the rising juniors, having been elected on a final ballot which eliminated Rud Gilmore and Dick Kenyon. For the sophomores, Casey Jones and Ed Watson will serve, with Watson defeating Frank Niven on the final ballot.

Hector McGeachy was elected editor, and Cage Brewer business manager.

Eight Sections

The 1937-38 Handbook was divided into eight parts: General Information, Freshmen, Y.M.C.A. Activities, Student Government, Athletics, Fraternities, and Songs and Yells.

Walker Will Edit Yearly

This Handbook is published every year by the Student Body. It is sent to the members of the new freshman class every summer and all upperclassmen who desire it. It contains a great deal of information about the school, its activities, and the members of the student body who hold important offices.

Presidents To Serve

In addition to these ten men, Sam Newell, president of the Senior Class, Gales McClimock, president of the Junior Class, and Tank Robinson, president of the Sophomore Class, are also entitled to a place. Fred Stair, president-elect of the council for next year, will also serve as president.

Advisory Committee

For the remainder of the school year, a committee composed of “Teeny” Lafferty, president of the Student Body, Wade Barrow, president of the Senior Class, and Charles Brown, appointed by this year’s council, will sit with the new council at all their sessions as an advisory committee. The new council will be formally installed at the chapel period Friday morning, April 29.

Walker is from Steel Creek, North Carolina, and is a member of Kappa Sigma social fraternity. This year he was managing editor of “Quips and Cranks.” He has been active in boys' work for the “Y.” He is a member of the Y.M.C.A. Cabinet and also the Board of Control, and is the retiring first vice president of the “Y.” He is on the track team and is a member of the “D” Club.

German Frat

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., WEDNESDAY, APR. 27, 1938

Campus

Brewer was elected Editor of Quips and Cranks, the college annual. A coincidence was the fact that both of these men opposed each other in each election.

Masquers Dramatists Begin Preparations; Expect to Give Play In Near Future

The Red and Black Masquers selected the cast for the comedy, “Dulcy,” last Thursday and Friday night in Chambers Auditorium. According to Fitz Dades, the cast for the comedy, which will be given sometime next month before examinations begin, has been decided. The exact date of the presentation has not been set, but the club expects to set a date at its next meeting. Preparations are underway for the practice this week.

Cast Announced

The cast is as follows: The heroine “Dulcy,” Kallista Blood; her husband Gordon Smith, Ken MacIntyre; her brother William Parker, Leader.

During the past week, these two members of the rising senior class have been chosen to high positions by their classmates. Gaw was chosen to succeed Watson Street as Freshman Adviser for next year, while Brewer was elected Editor of Quips and Cranks, the college annual.

French Circle Gives Plays For Converse

Same Program Presented In Charlotte Monday

On Thursday, twenty-five members of Le Cercle Francais, the Davidson French faculty, and the technical club staff journeyed to Spartanburg, S.C. to present two plays, “La Lettre Chargée” and “L'Homme de la Nuit,” at Converse College. Upon arrival, the members of the French Club prepared the stage for the evening. After this, the students were the guests of Converse College at dinner before the performance.

Davidsonian Is First Magazine

Balloting No. 31

Rising Seniors Elect Gaw To Post of Frosh Adviser; Brewer Is Annual Editor

Coghill Loses By Few Votes; Brewer Wins Out On Second Ballot; Will Succeed Dorsett

Cage Brewer, of Clarksdale, Miss., was elected editor of next year’s annual last Saturday on the second ballot by a few votes over Wesley Coghill. Out of the five eligible men, only two were left after the first day of voting. Warren Gaw, Boo Walker, and Ovid Cell lost on the first ballot. The number of votes cast for each candidate on the final count was Brewer 63 and Coghill 62.

In addition to being elected editor of Quips and Cranks, Cage was also elected manager of the baseball team. Brewer and Coghill were very close in the voting.

Spring Services Led By Dr. “Bill” Gardner

Dr. William V. Gardner of Atlanta, under the auspices of the Y.M.C.A., will deliver the fourth in a series of six talks this evening at 7:15 in Chambers Auditorium. Dr. Gardner has been brought here by the Y.M.C.A. to lead the annual spring services. He is speaking each morning to the students in an expanded chapel period and holds a meeting each evening at 7:15. These services will last through Thursday night. Special music is being rendered each evening at the services by a quartet and soloists of the music department. Students who desire them are having individual conferences with the speaker.

White Polls First Vote

By a vote of 28 to 42, Warren Gaw was elected freshman adviser for next year by the junior class. The new adviser defeated Cage Brewer on a fourth ballot Friday morning. Gaw, whose home is in Greensboro, is a member of the rising senior class. As a member of the Y.M.C.A. cabinet, he has been in charge of the chapel services this year. He is a member of Eta Sigma Phi, classical fraternity, Alpha Phi Epsilon, forensic fraternity, the “D” Club, and Kappa Sigma social fraternity. He is also managing editor of the Davidsonian.

Coghill Loses On Fourth Ballot

Wesley Coghill, a member of the Scabbard and Blade, Gamma Delta social fraternity, and the International Relations Club, was also a candidate. He was eliminated on the third ballot.

Miller And Lipfert Tie To Follow White

Lacke White received the highest number of votes on the first ballot cast Monday morning for the position of freshman adviser. He was followed by Gene Lipfert and Layton Miller, who tied with each other with 58 votes. These three formed the second ballot.

Newell Heads Sig. Upsilon

Officers Elected and Several Papers Read

Mitchell College Girls Will Be Entertained

Tuesday morning, Walker Heilman, Jerry Doster, Henry Baker, and others were elected officers. This year’s Student Council was composed of M. J. Lafferty, president, Wade Barrow, Charles Brown, Jim Dorsett, J. C. Harrison, Lawrence Reid, and Watson Street. Seniors: Sam Newell, Ray Pitman, Perry Sloan, and Sam Webb. Juniors: Buck Powell, Sam Spencer, and Dave Sprunt. Sophomores.

Many Attend Seniors’ Fete Despite Rain

Many Come To Senior Open House

Despite the fact that the rain came down in torrents and that there were three or four other social events scheduled for Thursday afternoon, the Open House in the dormitories was largely attended and proved to be a great success. The first floor of each of the five dormitories was open from 4 until 6 for inspection, thus making the affair a little more elaborate than the first attempt of last year when only the first floors of Georgia and Watts dorms were open to the visitors.

Members of the Senior Class served as ushers for the occasion under the supervision of Torrey McLean. At 6 o'clock, all the visitors met in the parlor of Watts for refreshments and all approved of the idea of having Open House once each year.

Faculty Visits

Among the visitors were the members of the faculty, their wives, and many outside visitors, most of whom were parents of the boys. Last year at the first Open House there were over one hundred guests, but not even the rain kept them back Thursday when approximately 175 friends turned out for the occasion.

True to its purpose of giving parents an opportunity to see just exactly how the Davidson students live, and to enable the students to play host to the townspeople of Davidson once each year. Mrs. Smith has decided to firmly establish this tradition.establish this custom on the campus. The local chapter of Delta Phi Alpha and the German Club met last Friday night at the home of Professor Ernest A. Reaty for a joint meeting. At the opening of the meeting, a number of German quotations were given and Field Horine recited. During the progress of the meeting, the pronunciation of the poem "Du bist mein" was discussed at length. This was followed by the initiation of the following new members: M. E. Morrow, Nob Ramsey, K. D. Doty, T. L. Harnsberger, A. R. Kenyon, W. Masters, K. W. Lawson, B. W. Silverson, and Locke White.

Horine Reports
Shields were presented to members of Delta Phi Alpha, and Field Horine gave a brief report on news and information from other chapters of the fraternity. This was followed by a report by Sam Webb on "Reflections on America" by Hans Grimes. Professor Schenck spoke on the "Value of German in Graduate Work." An informal discussion on how the fraternity might be improved was held during the feed. Election of the new officers for the coming year will be held at a meeting this week.

Sponsors Are Chosen
Sponsors for the various social fraternities have recently been selected. Each of the nine girls selected as Sponsors for the fraternities will occupy one whole page in the Annual. The girls chosen are as follows: Phi Gamma Delta, Betty Bahnson from Winston-Salem; Sigma Alpha Epsilon, Betty Shull from Charlotte; Pi Kappa Alpha, Elizabeth Brandon from Charlotte; Pi Kappa Phi, Delt Sutherland from Charlotte; Kappa Alpha, Sara Glenn from Chester, S.C.; Kappa Sigma, Harriet Boyd from Columbia, S.C.; Phi Delta Theta, Jatie Washburn from Shelby; Sigma Phi Epsilon, Christine Cook from Salisbury; Beta Theta Pi, Virginia Hunter from Petersburg, VA.

Miller: advertising engineer in the college dining hall. Tom Sterrett, Philip Peyton: the program was begun. Roger Forbes, Warren Gaw: Presidents Speak — Schuyler Van Dyke, Ed Morrow; Sam Cothran, president of the Henry, Boyd Flynn; Vincent Leach, scenarist, Gordon Horton, and Blair Watterson, Shaw Smith. Due to reasons beyond their control, the Red and Black Masquers have been unable to produce any kind of play this year. The three-act comedy "Wuley" will be the only play given by the club this year, consequently the Masquers say that it will be produced in the best fashion.

Dr. Addison Brenizer To Talk At Meeting
Dr. Addison Brenizer, a prominent Charlotte surgeon, will address Alpha Epsilon Delta, pre-medical fraternity, tonight at 8:15 in the Chemistry Building. Dr. Brenizer is a goiter specialist and will show pictures which probably will cover this phase of medicine. The work of the fraternity is particularly significant at this time because many of its members will be applying for entrance to graduate medical schools in the very near future. Much help can be offered its members by experienced physicians.

Davidson Cercle was introduced by Miss Mary Dorcas Harding, president of the Alliance Francaise of Converse, and he announced the program. In the first play, La Lettre Chargee, Sam Spencer was the leading lady, Hortense, whose hand was sought by Oscar Armstrong as Hector, her cousin. Peters Four Hasson, an eccentric, wealthy American. In Andre de Larde’s contemporary horror play, L'Homme de la Nuit, Alton Cates had the leading role as William Halters, a London artist. He was assisted by Bob King as Mrs. Halters, Archer Torrey as Jenkins the valet, and Sumney Crane and Donnell Davidson as Maggie and Flossie Bennett. In the second act, the crime is solved by Hodgson, played by Wade Barrow, and Sam Cothran and Scott Raynal, assistants.

Effective Scenery
An effective scene was the final scene of the first act, where, in the midst of a thunderstorm, "l'homme de la nuit" was seen to stealthily disappear over the balcony into the adjacent cemetery.

Guests Tonight
Tonight at 8:15, after the V.M.C.A. services, the Eumenean Literary Society will entertain forty-three members of Mitchell College's Society Grier Kinsey Literary Society in a joint meeting. The Mitchell program has arranged a special occasion, the Mexican dance, and the girls will do a recitation. The Mitchell society will uphold the negative of the debate question, "Resolved, that the flea has more life than the dog." They will also take part in the extemporaneous contests. For Davidson's part of the entertainment, Sam Ryburn and Dick Vowles will uphold the affirmative side of the above-mentioned query. George Milne will give a lecture on public speaking, and Dave Woodward will give an impersonation of Woodrow Wilson. A vase of flowers will be presented to the Mitchell girls as an award for a contest of some sort. To this program, Dr. Cumming and Dr. and Mrs. Foreman have been invited. After the adjournment of the meeting, refreshments will be served. Presiding at the Grace Ramsey Society will be (Continued on Page 6).

Hicks Is Elected "D" Club Head
J. D. Hicks, a popular junior from Lawndale, N.C., was elected president of the "D" Club for the coming session at the club’s regular meeting last Tuesday evening, April 19. Tom Abbott and Johnny Tice were chosen vice-president and secretary-treasurer, respectively, at this same meeting.

Three Letter Man
Hicks, who won his letter in both basketball and baseball last year and also in basketball again this year, has been prominent in athletic activities throughout his college career. He has been a member of varsity football, basketball, and baseball teams and last year won the basketball trophy for his outstanding playing. The club’s rising vice-president, Tom Abbott, hails from Charlotte and is a member of the Beta Theta Pi social fraternity. He is president of the newly-rejuvenated Beaver Club and served on the Court of Control his sophomore and junior years. He has been elected to the Student Council for the coming year and won his letter in track as a sophomore. He ran the quarter-mile as a member of the track team. Tice, the "Mighty Atom" of the basketball court, is a native of Blacky, Ky., and has been prominent not only in basketball but also in intramural football. He is a member of the Sigma Phi Epsilon social fraternity and the Scabbard and Blade honorary military fraternity. He was secretary-treasurer of the Athletic Association his freshman year and has played basketball all three years here.

Simultaneous Election
Hicks and Abbott were elected simultaneously, as it was decided that the nominee receiving the largest number of votes should get the presidency, while the runner-up would be vice-president. Yates Faison, as chairman of the committee for obtaining pictures for the club room, made his report and it was decided that group pictures of athletic teams and pictures of their captains should be hung in rotation for three-year periods.

Miller, Gene Lippert, and Locke White were all on the original ballot. Locke White is president of Gamma Sigma Epsilon, a chemistry fraternity, an alternate on the Debate Team, and a member of Kappa Sigma social fraternity. Rut Miller is a columnist for the Davidsonian, a member of Sigma Upsilon literary fraternity, and a member of Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity. At the regular bi-monthly meeting of Sigma Upsilon last Wednesday night, new officers were elected, and Sam Newell was chosen president of the club. The other officers elected were Ed Morrow as program chairman, Rut Miller as secretary, Sam Spencer as treasurer, and Jack Holland as steward. These officers will take their respective stations at the next meeting on May 4.

Gene Lippert was on the Court of Control and he is Pan Hellenic Council director next year of the Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity.

Eta Sigma Has Elections
One of the highlights of the program was the reading of an original story "White Madness" by Field Horine. The story was a well-shaped piece concerning a madman. Sam Newell delighted the members with an essay on Charles Lamb, written in autobiographical form, hitting Lamb's style of scrutiny. A chapter of the Sigma Upsilon story, "Snowe," was written by Chubby Mawhinney. This novel is being written by the members of Sigma Upsilon about "Card Johnston," a Davidson student and his experiences. There was a feed afterwards. The meeting was held at the Kappa Alpha fraternity house, and there will be only two more meetings during this year.

Mawhinney Made President of Classical Group
At the meeting of Eta Sigma Phi Monday night at the home of Dr. C.R. Harding, there was an election of new officers, an initiation of new members, and a report on the National Convention in Columbus, Ohio. The newly elected officers are John Mawhinney, president; Stitt Robinson, vice-president; Bob Ramsay, secretary; Jack Abernathy, treasurer; and Al Bixler, sergeant-at-arms. The initiates are Bob Phipps, Nelson Smith, Rodman Williams, and Jack Abernathy.

Convention Report
At the national convention of Eta Sigma Phi held at Ohio State University, April 21-23, the Alpha Nu Chapter was represented by John Mawhinney and Stitt Robinson. The features of this convention besides the regular business were addresses by noted classical speakers, visits to classical museums, and a tea at Governor Davey's mansion.

By-Laws Passed
At the meeting Monday, two by-laws were passed stating that the president of Eta Sigma Phi could not be the president of another honorary fraternity. Also, Dr. Harding made a short talk on how to instill interest in the classics. The meeting was closed by a social.

Science Group Picks Leaders
The Gamma Sigma Epsilon chemical fraternity at its regular bi-monthly meeting held Wednesday, April 20, elected the following officers for the coming year: Locke White, grand alchemist; Lister Skinner, recorder; Wesley Coghill, visitor; and John Wilson, sergeant-at-arms. Gamma Sigma Epsilon was founded here at Davidson in 1919. In its nineteen years of existence, the fraternity has grown from one to thirteen chapters which are scattered over the country from New York to Florida and as far west as Wyoming. It is now affiliated with the "La Societe des Amis de la Maison Natale de Pasteur" of France and is the only scientific organization in America which has a European connection.