Wednesday, Feb. 9, 1938 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Three

Deputation Aids Work of Asheville ‘Y’
Five Students Aid Faison in Promoting Y.M.C.A. Work At Asheville

Five Davidson Y. M. C. A. cabinet members and athletes journeyed to Asheville last week on the invitation of M.
“Mokey” Faison, ’37 boys’ work secretary of the Asheville Y.M.C.A., to help in the promotion of “Y” activities there. The
five, Wade Boggs, Haywood Hill, M. L. Liberty, T. E. Walker, and Monroe Wicker, arrived in Asheville Thursday afternoon.

Thursday evening, each of the group spoke before a meeting of the senior Hi-Y members. The following morning, the band
visited the “Gra-Y's,” graded school "Y" clubs, at six of Asheville’s grammar schools. Friday evening, the group went to a
banquet given in their honor and attended by the leaders of the Y.M.C.A. and the members of the boys’ clubs.

Next morning, the “Y” workers saw three basketball games between six of the seven teams in a boys’ league organized
and coached by Faison. Between halves of the second contest, each of the group, wearing his “D” sweater, addressed a
few remarks to the boys on sportsmanship.

Saturday evening, the group was present at a gathering of the Clean Life Boys’ Club, the largest such club for
underprivileged youth in the state. The club, conducted by Mrs. Seth Perkins, heard the four phases of Hi-Y discussed by
the Davidson students. Following the meeting, the same talks, condensed, were presented over Asheville radio station WWNC.

Societies Are Making Plans
Phi’s Will Entertain Queens Society Tuesday

Philanthropic Literary Society will hold a joint meeting with the Queens Literary Society of Queens-Chicora College here next Tuesday night,
February 15. Miss Frances Gunn is president of the Charlotte college's society, which accepted the invitation to meet with the
Philanthropic. It is said that between 35 or 40 girls will comprise the group coming over from Charlotte. Mrs. N.
T. Smith, honorary life member of the Philanthropic Society, will act as one of the chaperones, and the girls will
bring another chaperone along with them from Queens.

There will be a joint program in which both societies will take part. After the program, members of the Phi
and their guests will join in a feed and social hour, for which efforts are being made to secure the
entire Y.M.C.A. building. Russell Kerr is in charge of arrangements for this part of the meeting.

Vespers Sermon Deals With Cheap Religion

Vesper services were conducted by the Rev. Frank H. Caldwell, D.D., president of Louisville Theological Seminary in Louisville. Dr. Caldwell
took as his text II Samuel 24:24, “And the king said to Araunah, Nay! but I will verily buy it
of thee at a price; neither will I offer burnt offerings unto Jehovah my God which cost me nothing. So
David bought the threshing floor and the oxen for fifty shekels of silver.”

In his interesting and helpful sermon, Dr. Caldwell pointed out the fact that men are given to buying religion for
a cheap price. They give their money to a certain extent, but they will not give their time and energy,
preferring to be represented at church by some other means.

One point that Dr. Caldwell stressed was that the measure of one’s love for God is the amount of time
one spends in the service of God. He pointed out that true self-denunciation was exemplified by quoting Jesus, “If a
man follow me, let him deny himself.”

Rader Appoints Committee To Select Question

R. J. Terry has been named chairman of the membership committee of the Eumenean Literary Society by Bill Rader, the
new president; and Sam Lowe and Fred Stair will serve on the committee with him. At the Society's next meeting,
the question for the debate with the Philanthropic Society will be discussed. At first, it was thought that the question
would be: “Resolved, That Davidson College Should Subsidize Athletics,” but by mutual agreement, the societies decided not to use this
question. A new question will be decided upon this week and the two debaters will be chosen.

The Eumenean Society, the only student organization which has had a continuous existence since 1837, has also decided to preserve
valuable records of its activities in the vaults of Chambers Building.

A “Candle Light Brigade” 250 strong, marched into the library of the U. of California at Los Angeles in protest
against the inadequate lighting facilities of the building.

“You'll Find Warmth and Friendliness At Bridges”
Complete Home Furnishers
308 South Tryon Street
Charlotte, N. C.

Dr. Frank H. Caldwell Leads Vesper Service

College Health Reported Fine
Infirmary Staff Pronounces Few Cases of SicknessHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

The general health of the student body is much better now than it has been, according to recent reports from
the infirmary. With the exceptions of a few injuries, there is no great amount of sickness, and the health of
the boys as a whole has improved. However, the Infirmary boys have responded rapidly to treatment and are very enthusiastic
over the treatment received at the new infirmary. With the aid of some new equipment, the staff is more able
to control sickness.

Among those recuperating from illnesses and injuries, R. H. Brandon is doing nicely following a leg fracture. Dave McLean is
doing well after having fractured two ribs in wrestling, and M. B. Sherrin is getting better from an infected foot.

In preparation for the coming season, the six members of the debating team and the three alternates began a series
of classes to be conducted by Dr. C. K. Brown on Monday evening. These classes will be held twice a
week and their program will include a study of both sides of the question, “Resolved, that the National Labor Relations
Board should be empowered to enforce arbitration in all labor disputes.” Perhaps trial debates will also be held at the
classes. No new plans or schedules have been made for the spring season.

Blue-eyed brunettes beat out the blondes at Washington U. In a poll of students, the former won 58 percent of
the votes, blondes got 36 percent, and redheads trailed with 6 percent.

Never ask the parents of a young married man what he is doing for a living.

Call Us When You Need Coal or Wood... Delivered Same Day...
DAVIDSON ICE & FUEL CO.
PHONE 130

Text of Dr. Foreman’s Talk

Bunny’s Hot Trumpet To Be Featured

Bunny Berigan, “the maestro with the flaming trumpet,” is known in New York as “the hottest man in town,” and
those who were habitual listeners to Columbia’s Saturday Night Swing Club last year will confirm that title. Berigan, who hails
from Wisconsin, began playing in orchestras at the age of 14. He studied at the University of Wisconsin and later
moved to New York to look for musical opportunities. Benny Goodman and Tommy Dorsey are given a lot of credit
for the swingster’s success. Berigan tells how he was playing in a hot “five” at a 52nd Street cavern in
the big city when Goodman and Dorsey noticed him and offered him a spot on a scheduled radio show. “I’d
played for both boys,” he relates, “and they knew what I could do. Benny told me to take a crack
at the Saturday Night Swing Club over WOR and the Mutual Network. I did, and it was a success.”

J. F. Loftin, 36, Weds South Carolina Girl

An announcement is received that J. F. Loftin, 36, has married Miss Leta S. of South Carolina. After a brief
honeymoon trip, the couple will reside in Morganton, where Mr. Loftin is employed by the Drexel Furniture Company.

YES, HAIRCUT
DAVIDSON BARBER SHOP
Davidson, N. C.

YOUR SELECTION NOW FROM OUR COMPLETE FRESH STOCK OF HEARTS BY Nunnally’s - Norris - Whitman’s
Pound to 5 Pounds
Our Valentine Special
A Big 2-Pound HEART
Assorted Candies—Creams—Nuts—Fruits
Only $1.00
Any Names Hand-Painted on All Hearts Free
CANDY DELIVERED BY WESTERN UNION SUNDAY, 13th
FREE. Postage Paid on Candy Mailed Anywhere in U.S.A.
“Creators of Reasonable Drug Prices”
128 N. Tryon
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
