Registration Is Under Way

2528 VOL. XXV ALENDA Lux Ust ORTA

The Davidsonian

LIBERTAS

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., WEDNESDAY, APR. 20, 1938

Spring Services Begin Soon

Dr. Gardner Will Be Atlanta Minister Secured to Conduct Annual Spring Services

Dr. William V. Gardner, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Atlanta, will lead the Y.M.C.A. Spring Services here Tuesday
through Thursday of next week, April 26-28. He will speak two times daily during his stay here, during the chapel
hour in the morning and at 7:15 each evening. Dr. Gardner announces that he will be glad to have conferences
with any student who would like to speak with him.

Dr. Gardner attended the University of Mississippi in 1921, later transferring to Southwestern Presbyterian from which he graduated in 1925.
He is a member of the Kappa Sigma social fraternity, and during his college days was president of the Y.M.C.A.,
a member of O.D.K. honorary fraternity, and was voted the most popular man in his class.

Union Seminary

In 1928 he graduated from the Union Theological Seminary in Richmond, Va., and while there was president of his class,
and president of the student body during his senior year. He was awarded both the Moses D. Hodge Fellowship and
the Jarvie Commonweal Fellowship to Palestine, where he made an extensive study in archaeology.

Although comparatively young, Dr. Gardner is at the head of one of the largest and most influential churches in the
entire assembly. On his return to the United States Dr. Gardner served as pastor of the First Presbyterian Church in
Tuscumbia, Ala., from 1930-33, and pastor of the First Presbyterian Church in Farmville, Va. During this period he was elected
moderator of the North Alabama Presbytery, and later of the West Hanover Presbytery in Virginia.

Doctor of Divinity

He was conferred the degree of Doctor of Divinity by the Presbyterian College of Clinton, S.C., in June, 1937. Dr.
Gardner has not only had a remarkably successful pastorate, but he has also been elected president of the Presbyterian Ministers’
Association in Atlanta, and his broad civic and social interests have been recognized in his being elected to the Kiwanis
Club in Atlanta.

(Continued on Page 6)

Editors Will Program For Next Year’s Seniors

Elect Sam Newell As President; Frosh Adviser To Be Next Lead

John King won from Casey Jones, and in the race for secretary-treasurer Bobby Williams defeated John Davidson. King received 86
votes to 104.

Senior Class Is Host At Open House

Many Out of Town Guests Are Expected

The Davidson senior class will sponsor “open house” in the dormitories from four to six o'clock on Thursday, April 21,
for the people of Davidson and for the out-of-town guests. The first floor of each dormitory will be open for
inspection and the visitors will be ushered through the rooms by members of the senior class. The parlor of Watts
dormitory will be used as headquarters for the hosts, and it is there that refreshments will be served.

The first of the “open house” was held last year. At that time only the halls of two dormitories, Watts
and Georgia, were used for the inspection. On that day there were over a hundred guests; most of these consisted
of the faculty and their families and of other interested Davidson friends, few being from out of town. However, the
plans for this year’s “open house” are more elaborate than those of last year, and a much larger crowd of
out-of-town friends are expected.

The purpose of this event is to entertain at Luncheon

It has recently been announced that the North Carolina Collegiate Press Association convention will be held at Hotel Charlotte, Charlotte,
N.C., on May 5, 6, and 7. To this convention Davidson will send both the old and new editors and
business managers of its publications.

The program for the convention has been planned as follows: Registration will begin on Thursday afternoon, May 5. Friday Queens-Chicora
College will entertain the delegates at a luncheon, and Friday night a banquet will be held at which awards for
the year's best publications will be made. Saturday there will be an election of new officers for the convention and
an appointment of committees.

For this convention a number of well-known speakers have been secured. D. Iden Ramsay, editor of The Asheville Citizen-Times, will
be the chief speaker at the Friday night banquet. Jake Wade, sports editor of The Charlotte Observer, will lead the
discussion of the newspaper editors, and Cameron Shipp of The Charlotte News, and Raymond Thompson of the Lassiter Press, Inc.,
will be in charge of the annual editors’ open forum. Harvie Keck of the Observer Printing House will handle the
discussion of the business managers.

Graduation of Seniors Takes Definite Form

Meetings of Board of Trustees and Alumni From June 2 to 6th

GRADUATION ON JUNE 7

Old Grads Will Occupy Georgia Dormitory

An extensive program during commencement this year has been planned for Davidson alumni which will last from June 2 through
June 7. The program opens on Thursday, June 2, and closes on Tuesday, the 7th, with the graduation exercises.

Thursday there will be a meeting of the executive board of trustees. Friday morning, the 3rd at 10 o'clock, there
will be a meeting of the board of trustees. The executive committee of the Alumni Council will convene. The sermon
Sunday morning at 11 o'clock, June 5, will be conducted by the Rev. Mr. John Mackay, president of Princeton Theological
Seminary. On Monday, June 6, which is the Annual Alumni Day, there will be a luncheon held in the banquet
hall in Chambers building, at 12:30 which will be followed by discussion groups and class reunions. Oren Smith will preside.

Tuesday morning the exercises will conclude with the graduation of the class of '38 at 11 o'clock. Conrad Frederick Smith,
alumni secretary, is making plans for the old grads to stay in Georgia Dormitory.

Mr. Thomas Lothery, instructor in Physics, has just accepted a position at Washington & Lee as an instructor of Physics
for next year. Mr. Lothery, who came here last fall to fill the vacancy left by W.A. Parker, graduated from
Davidson College in 1930 with a B.S. in Physics. After Mr. Lothery graduated, he was an instructor here for two
years and then went to Presbyterian College as professor of Physics and Astronomy for two years. In the summers of
these four years, he studied at the University of Chicago, specializing in X-ray, radio, and radioactive substances. In the fall
of '34 he entered the University of Virginia, where he studied for the first quarter. He went to New York
at the first of the year to continue his studies at the University of Chicago.

Hank Bahnson Elected Head of Future Sophs

King to Be Vice-President — Williams Is New Secretary-Treasurer

Hank Bahnson was elected president of the rising sophomore class in the final ballot last Wednesday morning, defeating Ed. Watson
by a narrow margin. In the ballot for vice president, John King won from Casey Jones, while Williams was elected
by the margin of 95 to 71. In the first count for president Bahnson defeated Watson 86 to 79.

Hank Bahnson is from Winston-Salem and belongs to Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity. He won his freshman numerals in both
football and wrestling. John King is a native of Johnson City, Tenn., and belongs to Kappa Alpha fraternity. He was
a member of the freshman football and basketball teams, and was interclass basketball manager. Bobby Williams was on the freshman
cross-country team, and also on the basketball squad. His home is in Greensboro, and his social fraternity is Phi Delta
Theta.

Soph Election Is Under Way, Powell, Kenyon, Sprunt, Spencer, Gilmore Lead

Buck Powell, Dick Kenyon, Dave Sprunt, Sam Spencer, and Bud Gilmore remained in the running for a position on the
Student Council from the rising junior class after one ballot had been taken. These men survived from a field of
fifteen nominees. The other nominees were Charlie Akers, Dan Cooper, Dick Gammon, Benny Harrison, Dave King, Julian Lokey, George Richmond,
and Bob Wood. The vote count on this ballot was as follows: Powell, 48, Kenyon 42, Sprunt 39, Spencer 38,
and Gilmore 27. Three of these men are to be elected.

Buck Powell is a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity, president of the sophomore class, and made a numeral
on the freshman football team. Dick Kenyon is from Charlotte and is a member of Phi Delta Theta social fraternity.
He is a member of the track team and is a member of the Publications Union Board. Dave Sprunt is
from Charlotte and is a member of Kappa Sigma social fraternity. He is a member of the track team and
is a member of the Publications Union Board. Sam Spencer is from Charlotte and is a member of Kappa Sigma
social fraternity. He is a member of the track team and is a member of the Publications Union Board. Bud
Gilmore is from Charlotte and is a member of Kappa Sigma social fraternity. He is a member of the track
team and is a member of the Publications Union Board.

I.R.C. To Be Guests

The International Relations Club of Davidson has been invited to a banquet at Thacker’s Friday night, at which the chapter
of I.R.C. at Queens-Chicora will be the host to the chapters of Winthrop, Converse, Catawba, and Davidson. The purpose of
this banquet is to further the feeling of unity and cooperation between the chapters. After the selected program which Queens-Chicora
is to prepare, there will be a discussion of some important topic.

New Teachers To Come Here

Gaw Leads In Latest Ballot

Cage Brewer and Sam Webb Remain in Running For Freshman Advisor

After the second ballot for Freshman Advisor, Warren Gaw held a commanding lead over Cage Brewer and Sam Webb. Gaw
polled 53 votes, Brewer 34, and Webb 27. Saturday morning seven men were nominated for this position.The others were Joe
Calvin, John Mawhinney, Boo Walker, and Rod Williams. After the first ballot on Monday had already taken a dead 34
ballots to 21 for Brewer, and search for Calvin and Webb. Office, morning Gaw with activities. Warren Gaw is a
member of Kappa Sigma social fraternity, a managing editor of Quip and Cranks, and was secretary-treasurer of the student body
in 1936-37. He played on the freshman basketball team. He is also a managing editor of the annual and has
recently been chosen varsity football manager for next year. Webb's social fraternity is Gamma Delta. He has been on the
student council during the past two years, is an assistant in biology, and won the alumni medal for highest scholarship
in his freshman class.

This office was created last year and Watson Street, who is in office at the present time, was the first
man to hold it. Only rising seniors are eligible for the position and are voted on only by the members
of the rising senior class. They conduct orientation for the incoming freshmen each fall.

Comedy Drs. Hillhouse and McGeachy and Mr. Douglas to Fill Vacancies

Two new professors, Dr. A. Hillhouse and Dr. J. A. McGeachy, and Mr. W. A. Douglas, physics instructor, will join
the Davidson faculty next September. Dr. Hillhouse will take over the duties of Professor J. P. Williams, who is accepting
a position in the American College of Life Underwriters. The new professor graduated from Davidson in 1924, having been president
of Phi Beta Kappa and O. D. K. member, an intercollegiate debater, a member of Pi Kappa Alpha social fraternity,
and a leader in many other campus activities. He received his M.A. degree from Chapel Hill, a J.D. in law
at Columbia University, and a Ph.D. at Northwestern University. He has taught at Chapel Hill, Greenbrier Military Institute, Northwestern, and
the University of Pittsburgh. Numerous pamphlets have been written by him.

Hemphill Leaves

A vacancy to be caused by Dr. W. E. Hemphill, assistant professor in European history, will be filled by Dr.
J. A. McGeachy. He was graduated Summa Cum Laude from Davidson and was valedictorian of his class. He made Phi
Beta Kappa, was class historian, did Y.M.C.A. work, and held assistantships in Latin and Philosophy. The instructorship in the Physics
laboratory, now held by Mr. T. E. Lothery, will be taken next term by W. A. Douglas, a graduate in
the class of '37. Mr. Douglas is at present teaching science in the Charlotte high school.

"Dulcy" Will Be Given By Red and Black Masquers

The Red and Black Masquers are making preparations toward the presentation of a three-act comedy entitled "Dulcy." "Dulcy" was written
by one of the most famous comedy playwrights that America has ever produced, George S. Kaufman and Marc Connelly. The
action centers around a weekend party given by Mrs. Smith (Dulcy) for her husband and friends in order to help
her husband complete a business deal. Mr. Smith is the manufacturer of imitation jewelry, and the deal means a lot
to him. Mrs. Smith makes a serious blunder, but through unusual and amusing happenings, things are finally straightened out. The
characters meet many amusing complications and have a hard time setting things right.

The cast has not yet been selected, but Miss Kalista Hood has consented to take the leading part of "Dulcy."
The Masquers feel that they are very lucky to be able to have as their leading lady such a prominent
actress and consider themselves honored to be able to have her help in their production. The Masquers hope to present
this comedy within a month.

President Pittman Loses By Few Votes

Hemphill Elected Vice-President — Long Secretary And Treasurer

In the second ballot for president of the Senior Class, Sam Newell defeated Ray Pittman by a margin of but
few votes. Cage Brewer was defeated by Sam Hemphill for the honor of vice-president, and Addison Long won out over
Terrell Porter for the secretary and treasurer’s post. Perry Sloan, Tom Abbott, Sam Newell, and Ray Pittman were placed on
the ballot for president by the nominating committee, and Ned Iverson and John Reisner were nominated from the floor. Julian
Squires, Joe Calvin, and Swede Johnson were eliminated on the first ballot for the position of vice-president. The first ballot
also eliminated Jack Tillotson, Stitt Robinson, Oscar Armstrong, Lem Goor, Rornegay, and Paul Cooper in the race for the secretary
and treasurer post.

Activities of Newell

Sam Newell is from Atlanta, Ga. and has been vice-president of the Kappa Alpha social fraternity for the last two
years. He is a member of the Student Council and was runner-up for both the president of the student body
and president of the "Y." He is also assistant to Dr. Cumming. Sam Hemphill is from Marion, N.C. and is
treasurer of Pi Kappa Phi social fraternity. He has played varsity baseball for three years and is consequently a member
of the "D" Club. He is on the business staff of the Davidsonian and also the annual. Addison Long is
a junior track manager and a member of Scabbard and Blade. He hails from Statesville, N.C. and is secretary-treasurer of
Pi Kappa Alpha social fraternity. He has recently been elected to the Pan-Hellenic council.

McClintock Leads Vote

Gales McClintock was elected president, "Bits" Watkins vice-president, and Wart Hudson secretary-treasurer of the rising junior class last Wednesday morning.
McClintock defeated Dick Kenyon, 81 to 61. Watkins won over Jim Currie, 76 to 54, and Hudson beat Harper Beall,
79 to 61. Gales McClintock, who hails from Charlotte, played on the freshman football, track, and tennis teams and served
as secretary-treasurer of the Ken-Wilson Athletic Association last year. He will lead the Betas this coming year. "Bits" Watkins, who
comes from Henderson, N.C., belongs to the Kappa Sigma fraternity. He played on the freshman football and baseball teams and
served on the freshman wrestling squad. Wart Hudson, Kappa Sigma, from Raleigh, was recently elected one of the managing editors
of the Davidsonian and is a member of Sigma Delta Pi, the national honorary Spanish fraternity. The race was very
close all the way and until the last ballot, none of the leaders were over six votes ahead of their
nearest opponent. The retiring officers are Buck Powell, president; Charlie Burn, vice-president; and Tom Fine, secretary-treasurer.

Jones Elected by Freshmen

Elected to Student Council on Second Ballot

In the second ballot for student councilmen from the rising sophomore class, Casey Jones was elected with 37 votes. For
the other position, three men remained in the running: Ed Watson with 36 votes, Frank Niven with 39, and Andy
Dale with 32. The original nominees for the two positions were Tommy Johnston, Tom Cauble, Jim Hoge, Dick Arnold, John
Hay, Ed Watson, Casey Jones, Andy Dale, Frank Niven, and Dick Shore. The first ballot was held Monday morning and
the vote count showed Jones leading with 53, Watson with 44, Dale with 29, Cauble with 27, and Niven with
24.

Casey Jones is a member of Pi Kappa Alpha social fraternity and has been very active in Y.M.C.A. and Hi-Y
work since he has been at Davidson. Ed Watson belongs to Sigma Phi Epsilon. He was runner-up for the offices
of secretary-treasurer of the student body and president of the rising sophomore class. Frank Niven is a Pi Kappa Phi
and played on both the freshman football and basketball teams. Andy Dale's social fraternity is Phi Delta Theta. He is
on the editorial staff of The Davidsonian and pitches on the freshman baseball team.

For New York University students of journalism, Hitler is this year's greatest news-name. Roosevelt is second.

The average senior at Columbia University expects to be earning $5,000 yearly five years after graduation.

Registration Hours: 9 A.M. - 12 Noon

Procedure for Freshmen:
1. Interview with faculty advisor.
2. Payment of registration fee in the bookstore.
3. Assignment to courses in the Registrar's office.

Students may also register for the summer session at this same time. A tentative schedule of recitations has been posted
by the Registrar's office. The deadline for registration is Saturday at noon.

A nationwide poll indicates that dormitory living is cheaper than rooming in private homes.
