Student Elections Get Under Way

Z528 ALENDA UBI ORTA The Davidsonian LUX LIBERTAS

Biologist Lectures Monday Night

VOL. XXVI DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., WEDNESDAY, MARCH 8, 1939 No. 20

Future of America Dr. Johnston Subject of Speech By Noted Biologist

Dr. Paul Popenoe to Speak In Chambers Building Monday Evening

AUTHORITY ON MARRIAGE Lecture Committee Sponsors California Man

Dr. Paul Popenoe, Sc.D., nationally known biologist and author, will speak in Chambers Auditorium Monday evening, March 13, at 8
o'clock on "Who Shall Inherit America." Dr. Popenoe, who is secretary and general director of the Institute of Family Relations
at Los Angeles, Calif., will be the third speaker brought to Davidson this year by the college lecture committee. Also
sponsoring the lecturer is Pi Gamma Mu, the honorary social science fraternity.

Noteworthy Career

This national authority on sex, heredity, marriage, and parenthood problems is also a lecturer in biology at the University of
Southern California. Before the World War, he was editor of the Journal of Heredity, published by the American Genetic Association,
and later became executive secretary of the American Social Hygiene Association of New York. He also served for many years
as secretary of the Human Foundation of Pasadena. During the past several years, he has been engaged in promoting education
for marriage and family life in American high schools and colleges. In the field of social biology, he has written
several books, and a number of magazine articles.

The Institute of Family Relations, with which he is now associated, was established in 1930 at Los Angeles, Cal., as
an educational center and information bureau on problems of sex, heredity, marriage, and parenthood. This organization, with a staff of
noted doctors and psychologists, holds conferences with clients, publishes pamphlets on these subjects, and sponsors lecturers throughout the United States.

Cops Uncover Bootleg Case

Davidson Negroes Arraigned For Dealings In Illegal Liquor Traffic

Many citizens and students of Davidson might be surprised and shocked to hear that there has been a large amount
of bootlegging going on beneath their very noses. Proof of this lies in the fact that last Friday night, according
to an exclusive Davidsonian interview with Chief William Linker; he, Chief Henry Mosley, and Patrolman Albert Goodrum of the Mecklenburg
County Rural Police force raided the home of John Lee Torrence, colored, and found there small quantities of whiskey. Also
found there were various articles such as glasses, bottles, etc., indicating that rather frequent boozing parties were held. The liquor
found was perfectly legal in the sense that it had been made up by a standard company and all the
taxes paid on it, but he had come into possession of it in an illegal manner. Torrence claimed that the
whiskey had been sold to him in Charlotte, which in theory is a dry town. Apprehended at the same time
was Willie Torrence, a relative of John Lee Torrence. These two were tried Saturday morning in the County Recorder’s Court,
at which time John Torrence was fined $10 and costs, while Willie was ruled not guilty.

A decidedly more important case was begun when, early last Saturday morning, Chief William Linker alone raided the home of
Albert Caldwell, also colored, and captured four five-gallon tins of bootleg liquor. Caldwell’s case has been turned over to the
proper Federal authorities.

Dr. Paul Popenoe, authority on family relations and sociology, will speak here Monday evening. He is General Director and Secretary
of the Institute of Family Relations of Los Angeles, Cal. The lecture is being sponsored by the Lecture Committee and
Pi Gamma Mu.

PERFORM EXPERIMENTS

Physics Fraternity Demonstrates For Public On Monday

Phi Sigma, honorary physics fraternity, held “open house” in the physics laboratories in Chambers Building on Monday night, March 6.
The object of this “open house” was to show some of the principles of physics through a series of novel
experiments. Members of the club were on hand to demonstrate these experiments. Some of them were:

(1) A television outfit, showing the effect of waves thrown on a screen. A weird picture was the result.
(2) An oscillograph showing the variation of electric waves on a screen.
(3) A Tesla coil discharging 150,000 volts through the air, showing the burning effect and lighting up a discharge tube.
(4) Expansion of a hollow tube by steam, demonstrating the effect of heat on metal.
(5) Static electricity machine, showing the peculiar properties of amber. When amber was rubbed with cat fur, it possessed very
peculiar properties.
(6) Sound waves and nodes in sawdust, showing the shape of sound waves. When the waves traveled through the sawdust,
the dust arranged itself in the shape of the sound wave.
(7) Steel bar and weights showing effects of inertia and effects of weight on inertia. The motion of the bar,
once started, depended on the amount of weight placed on it.
(8) A revolving seat, demonstrating the effect of centrifugal force or motion.
(9) Several cross-sections of electric motors, showing armatures.

Glee Club On Air

Under the direction of Thane McDonald, the college glee club will be featured on the weekly Davidson broadcast from 9:00
to 9:30 next Tuesday, March 14. They will take the place of the college symphonic band, which usually broadcasts. This
group will be in Florence, S. C., on that evening to give a concert under the auspices of the Florence
Kiwanis Club. Both of these groups are beginning their annual spring series of concert tours. The weekly campus news will
be read by Robert Kellogg.

Betterment

Professor W. Johnston, professor of history at Davidson College, has consented to coach the Davidson tennis team this spring, Ken
Lawson, varsity manager, has announced. This will mark the first year that Davidson has had a coach for this sport.
In the past, the student manager had full control of the team.

1930 Captain

Johnston received his A. B. degree here in 1930. His senior year he was captain of both the tennis and
the basketball team, and went to the finals of the state tennis tournament. He was a member of the 1929
team that went through its schedule without suffering a defeat, and the 1928 team that lost but one match. The
1930 team was the first composed of six men, the four-men matches being played before that time.

Four Lettermen

Last year’s team lost only two matches out of 18 played, continuing Davidson's fine record in this sport. Johnston will
have four lettermen returning from that squad to form a nucleus of the 1939 edition. Captain Hunt, Jones, Tenney, and
Northeross. Several freshmen of last year should also add strength to the team.

Furious Blaze Ravages Barn

The peace and quiet of the town of Davidson was shattered Monday afternoon by the shrill scream of the fire
siren and the squeal of tortured tires as the fire department rushed forth on an errand of mercy. But it
turned out that human lives were not concerned in the blaze which they found. Dr. J. W. MacConnell’s hay barn
was burning furiously and there was almost no way to stop it. In fact, when the equipment arrived on the
scene, the barn was almost entirely destroyed. In the fire, which was of unknown origin, were about 200 bales of
hay.

This recalls to mind some of the other recent serious fires which have occurred here. Most of the large fires
have been on Davidson College property. Among them were the house in which Major Ballard now lives, the Davidson Paper
Box Co., the Student Store, and the College Inn. However, on average, about six fires a year are reported to
the fire department. They include brush fires as well as houses and other buildings.

Five Compete For Entrance

Competitive examinations for entrance into West Point Military Academy were given yesterday to five members of the Davidson student body.
The competing Davidson men were Wesley Coghill and Jim Ballard, who appeared before examining boards in Washington, D. C.; C.
E. Bailey, and Mickey Long, who were given exams in Atlanta, Ga. Each of these men received rigid physical tests,
and those who did not have college scholastic certificates were also given mental tests. Appointments to the government military academy
received by these students from their Congressmen during the past year made them eligible for these examinations. The results of
these tests will not be announced for several months, but the winners will enter West Point on July 1.

Cornell University has just acquired a collection of 6,000 bird specimens from all parts of the world.

8:00 P. M. In Eighth Of 1938-39 Series

Spencer Leads In Race For President of Student Body; Gales

Where Are the Dwarfs, Diz?

Dave McLean proudly presents his Indian squaw, a product of the snow which fell last week. Whether or not she
was intended as an ally in snowball fights was not disclosed.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning
and punctuation:

---

certain, but she did look fierce. Things apparently got too hot for her, for she disappeared a day or so
later.

The college music department will present the Davidson symphonic band in the eighth concert of the 1938-39 music series Friday
evening, March 10, at 8:00 o'clock. Guest soloist on this concert in Chambers Auditorium will be B. L. Watkins, Jr.,
an outstanding young marimba player of Winston-Salem, who is fourteen years old and a student at Reynolds High School in
that city. He received first place in state music tests and has been featured in concerts throughout the state.

Works of Bach, Wagner, Strauss, Moussorgsky, and several other famous composers will be presented in the program. The program has
two sections of five numbers each, with an intermission. The band will be composed of Hazel Norris, first tenor; Edwards
Aycock, first bass; Charles Isley, second bass; and Richard Quinn, second tenor. They will sing two numbers.

The program includes: "Sweet Death," "Stradella," overture to "Vistas," "Come, Sweet Death," by Gillette; "Perpetual Motion," by Strauss; "Procession to
the Cathedral" from "Lohengrin," by Wagner. After intermission, the band will play "Sunrise," by Alford; "Chicken Reel," by Bloom; "Song
of the Bayou," by Sreuer, played by B. L. Watkins, marimba solo; "Great Gate of Kiev" from "Pictures at an
Exhibition," by Moussorgsky; and "O Davidson."

The symphonic band will begin its spring series of performances next Tuesday evening, when it gives a concert in Florence,
S. C.

Pi Gamma Mu Initiates Five, Discusses Coming Lecture

Pi Gamma Mu, national Social Science honorary society, held a very important meeting last Friday night at the Kappa Alpha
fraternity house for the purpose of initiating new members and installing the officers who were elected recently. Following the invocation
by T. E. Walker, an impressive ceremony was conducted as the five new members were initiated. Those who became members
of the organization at that time were Dave Colvin, Marion Pleasants, P. M. Davidson, George Milne, and C. W. Roberts.

The Social Science group also held a ceremony to install its new officers. Frank Simmons was installed as president, succeeding
R. A. Torrey in that office. Others who were inducted at the gathering were Elmer Hulen, vice-president, and Dave Sprunt,
secretary. These officers will serve through the first semester next year. During the business session, Dr. R. DeV. Williamson was
elected to the office of recording secretary.

[Continued on Page Six]

ENFORCE POINT SYSTEM

Two Vice Presidents To Be Chosen From Bahnson, Balsey, Jones, and Hogg

Hackney Leads Voting For Secretary-Treasurer

In the first ballot for President of the Student Body, Sam Spencer took a substantial lead with 270 votes. His
nearest rival, McClintock, polled 144.

Four men, of which two were to be elected, were placed in the race for the vice-presidency. Hank Bahnson led
with 260 votes, Bob Balsley and Casey Jones each received 179, and Jim Hogg got 171.

Claude Hackney led the field of eight for the position of Secretary-Treasurer of the Student Body. The votes were distributed
among the top four men as follows: Hackney, 174; George Marsh, 90; Ralph Stair, 69; and Ed Lucas, 63.

Five Nominated

Four men were nominated by the special nominating committee of the student council for the office of president: Jack Holland,
Gales McClintock, Charles Mashburn, and Sam Spencer. Dick Kenyon was nominated from the floor at Monday's meeting of the student
body.

For the offices of vice-president, the committee submitted the names of the following members of the rising Junior class: Hank
Bahnson, Bob Balsley, Casey Jones, and John King. Frank Niven, Ed Watson, and Jimmy Hogg were nominated from the floor.

Claude Hackney, Ed Lucas, and George Marsh were the committee's choices for secretary-treasurer. The special nominating committee also placed in
the race members of the rising sophomore class: Ralph Stair, Newt Edwards, Ed Hay, Monroe Bush, and Archie Taylor.

Rapid Runoff

At the meeting of the students, President Stair announced that it was necessary to have a rapid runoff election.

Phi Beta Kappa Affirms Transfers Are Eligible

Adopt New By-Laws

Lift Ban On Students From Other Colleges

Transfers to Davidson from other institutions will be considered for membership in the local chapter of Phi Beta Kappa in
the future, it was announced this week by Dr. Price Gwynn, president of the local group.

At a recent meeting, the scholastic fraternity adopted three new sections to its by-laws which will change the old rule
governing transfer students. Up until the new provisions were added, graduates from junior colleges who entered Davidson were not considered
for membership.

According to the first section, the chapter will give full value to grades of all men transferring from other institutions
with Phi Beta Kappa chapters. This student will have the same rating as students who entered Davidson in their freshman
year.

If a student transfers to Davidson at the beginning of his sophomore year from a school which does not have
a Phi Beta Kappa chapter but is on the approved list of the American Association of Universities, the second section
will allow him to be considered for election in the spring term of his senior year. Full value will be
given for all his grades.

The final section deals with all transfer students who are not covered by the first two groups. All other transfers
will be considered on their merits after they have completed the final exams of the spring term of their senior
year.

Neer Gets Coaching Job

W. F. Ravenel Elevated to Mentor’s Post at Episcopal High

William Bee Reine III, a graduate of Davidson College in the class of 1935, was recently appointed head football coach
at the Episcopal High School, Alexandria, Va.

While at Davidson, "Wimpy" held many honors. He was a member of Omicron Delta Kappa, national leadership fraternity, and of
Kappa Sigma, social fraternity. He belonged to Eta Sigma Phi, honorary classical fraternity, Delta Phi Alpha, honorary German fraternity, Sigma
Delta Psi, honorary athletic fraternity, Sigma Upsilon, honorary literary fraternity, Seabbard and Blade, honorary military fraternity. He was also a
member of the Gentlemen, social club, and the "D" Club.

He served on the Court of Control, and was active in football, basketball, and baseball, playing on the varsity teams
and being senior year football manager. Ravenel held offices in the Pan-Hellenic Council. He was also active in the field
of publications, serving as Assistant Business Manager of the "Yowl" and "Quips and Cranks."

Upon receiving his A. B. degree from Davidson in 1935, Ravenel enrolled in Duke University, where he was in graduate
school for one year. On leaving Duke, he went to Episcopal High, where he became Professor of English, junior football,
basketball, and baseball coach. This past year has marked his first year as basketball coach and his duties as varsity
football coach begin this year with spring practice. As well as being a coach and professor, Ravenel is adviser of
the school literary societies.

Fleagle Talks

Professor F. K. Fleagle, faculty advisor to the organizations, delivered a very interesting talk on history, life, and experiences in
Puerto Rico. Professor Fleagle pointed out that the small island of Puerto Rico, which was discovered by Christopher Columbus in
1493, has been continually inhabited by members of the Caucasian race in addition to the native Indians.

Puerto Rico has a colorful history, in which is included the visits of the Spanish. The Sigma Upsilon Club held
a regular bi-monthly meeting on March 6. The meeting, presided over by President A. L. Bixler, was composed chiefly of
entertainment.

Students To Preach

On next Sunday, March 12, two students from Union Theological Seminary will conduct the vesper services. Both are former Davidson
students. Mr. Thomas McLean, of the class of 1932, was valedictorian of his class. Mr. Monroe Wicker, class of 1938,
is well-known by many of the students here now, having taken a leading part in campus activities.

On Sunday, March 19, Rev. C. Grier Davis, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Asheville, will conduct vespers. He
will speak at the local Presbyterian church during the morning service, holding vespers in the College auditorium. Rev. Mr. Davis
will remain to conduct the annual spring evangelistic services.

(Continued on Page Six)

---
