Student Body Amendment Passes

Z528 ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA Che Mabidsonian LIBERTAS

Varsity Debaters Are Selected

VOL. XXVI DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 18, 1939 No. 15

Varsity Debaters Chosen Last Week In Annual Trials

Rice, White, Kenyon, Reisner, Calvin, and Ramsey Win In Competition

VETERANS ON TEAM

Ludlam, Thompson, and Lofton are Alternates

Tuesday night, January 10, the varsity debating trials were held in the Eumenean Society Hall. The judges were the members
of the faculty committee on debating, which consists of Prof. E. J. Erwin, Dr. C. K. Brown, and Dr. W.
P. Cumming. The question for debate was: “Resolved, that the United States should cease to use Public Funds for the
purpose of stimulating business.” Out of the eighteen men who tried for positions on the varsity, six regulars and three
alternates were chosen. They are as follows: Sherrard Rice, Joe Calvin, Locke White, John Reisner, Bob Ramsey, and Dick Kenyon.
The alternates are: Bill Loftin, Drury Thompson, and Warren Ludlam.

The subjects for this year’s debate will be: The Alliance of the United States with Great Britain and the subject
that was used for the varsity and freshmen tryouts. There will be three major trips for the team this year.
Two regulars and one alternate will make the trip assigned. The first tour will be into Virginia and on up
into New York and Massachusetts; the second will be into Kentucky and Ohio; and the third will be an extended
trip into Georgia, Florida, and Alabama. With the exception of two men, Davidson has the same team that was here
last year, and they are looking forward to a successful season.

Writing Class To Continue

Journalists Plan To Invite Guest Speakers For Each Meeting

The Davidson journalism class has decided to continue its activities until the end of this college term. At a special
meeting held on the evening of January 11, in Dr. Sentelle’s classroom, the members of this group made definite plans
for the rest of the year. The society will have meetings twice a month which will be addressed by some
leader in the newspaper field. This speaker will lecture and lead discussions for the class on his particular journalistic field.
Paul Cooper, president of the group, has announced that the first meeting under these new plans (Continued on Page Five)

Scientists’ Symposium Is Founded

Group To Be Composed Of Members of Natural Science Faculty

Professor H. E. Fulcher of the Davidson College Physics Department announced today the formation of a symposium at Davidson which
will include all members of the Natural Science faculty. A group of the faculty met in Professor Fulcher’s office recently
for the organization of this symposium. Fulcher was made chairman of the Program Committee while Dr. S. B. Knight of
the Chemistry Department is chairman of the Social Committee. After a round table discussion, refreshments were served.

Aims Explained

The aims of the symposium, as explained by Fulcher, are to encourage research and writing among the men of the
science group here. It is expected to serve as a proving ground where papers that are to be published or
presented at other science meetings may receive friendly criticism. It will also be an incentive for its members to keep
up with recent developments in their respective fields and to clarify these developments for the benefit of the other members
of the group. There will be two meetings each month, at the first of which a paper will be presented
by a member of the organization. Members of the senior class majoring in some Natural Science will be permitted to
attend these meetings. The second meeting of the month will be in the form of an open forum discussion and
a social. Professor Fulcher will present the first paper on January 31. The topic is “Modern Concepts of Radiation.” Dr.
Knight, Professor W. G. McGavock, and Dr. T. S. Logan will present succeeding papers.

Beavers Select Key

The Beaver Club, in its meeting last Thursday, decided on a design for their key. Herff Jones & Co. have
been named as official new jewelers. Since the 'possum hunt has been postponed until after semester exams, there are no
planned activities in line for the club. The Beaver Club, composed of Juniors and Sophomores, was formed to entertain visiting
athletic teams. Members try to make visitors’ stay here as pleasant as possible.

Musicians Rehearse For Coming Festival

“The Daughter Of Jairus” to Be Presented By Community Chorus

Plans for the Davidson Music Festival to be held here on February 12, 13, 14 are progressing rapidly. The chorus
which will present the sacred cantata, “The Daughter of Jairus” by Stainer met for their first rehearsal on last Monday
evening. This chorus is being composed of singers from Davidson, Huntersville, Mooresville, Charlotte, and Statesville. For this performance, the group
will be accompanied by the combined University of Michigan and Davidson Little Symphony orchestras. The soloists will be Katherine Swain
of Winston-Salem, soprano, and Franklin Riker, Davidson instructor in voice, tenor. Any of the townspeople of Davidson who would like
to sing in this are cordially invited to do so and should get in touch with Professor Pfohl as soon
as possible.

The program for Monday night will consist of the University of Michigan Little Symphony and the performance of the Mozart
D Major piano concerto. Louise Nelson Pfohl will be the soloist and will be accompanied by the orchestra. This program
will close with the presentation of the choral work, Olaf Trygvason by Grieg. This will be sung by the Davidson
Glee Club. The closing program of the festival on Tuesday will be presented by the University of Michigan Little Symphony
orchestra and the combined Queens-Chicora and Davidson Glee Clubs. This will be a presentation in concert form of the opera
Martha. In addition to these three programs, the Little Symphony of the University of Michigan will give a program in
chapel on Monday, February 13th.

Little Symphony

Pictured above is the University of Michigan Little Symphony Orchestra which will present a program at Davidson on February 14th.
The Little Symphony has been here twice in past years and will appear this year as part of the Annual
Musical Festival. The Orchestra will present a chapel program in addition to its regular concert.

Concert Will Be Given By Michigan Symphony

Sixteen-Piece Orchestra Will Take Part In Musical Festival

In the Davidson Musical Festival to be held on February 12, 13, 14, the University of Michigan Little Symphony Orchestra
will be presented. This group of sixteen assistants in instrumental instruction organized the Little Symphony for the purpose of gaining
experience in professional concertizing and also to acquaint the musical public in various sections of the country with the calibre
of this instrumental ensemble composed of youthful American artists. They have made two hundred concert appearances, over half of which
were given in the state of Michigan. Besides these concerts, the Little Symphony has presented especially adapted programs for youthful
audiences, outside in numerous high schools. The chapel program of Monday, February 14th, will be conducted by this musical organization.
This will be their only chapel performance.

Davidson was visited last year by other notable orchestras. The Gillette Chamber Orchestra, directed by Mr. James Robert Gillette, presented
a concert last spring. Under the direction of George H. Schapiro, the Little Philharmonic orchestra has presented concerts twice in
the past year. After their presentation last spring, they returned for the fall Concert Series of the Davidson Musical Department.
Under the direction of J. C. Pfohl, this department has made it possible for the Davidson student body to hear
the music of these famed musical organizations. Appreciation for these concerts may be shown by attendance.

Dr. Lingle To Go To Centre

Prominent Alumnus Will Be Inaugurated As President Of College

Dr. Walter L. Lingle has been invited to deliver the address at the inauguration of Dr. R. L. McLeod, Davidson,
'23, as president of Centre College. The ceremony will take place on Friday, January 20, in Danville, Kentucky, and will
be broadcast over the local radio station. Dr. McLeod is a member of Omicron Delta Kappa, honorary leadership fraternity, and
of Pi Kappa Alpha, social fraternity. He took an active part in many extra-curricular activities while at Davidson, as evidenced
by his being Business Manager of the Annual, a member of the Glee Club and of the Quartette, a Cheer
Leader, a member of the “D” Club, and a member of the Y.M.C.A. Cabinet. After graduating from Davidson, he took
a degree at Louisville Presbyterian Theological Seminary in Louisville, Ky. Since then he served for a number of years as
pastor of the Winter Haven, Fla., Presbyterian Church and for the past few years has been on the Board of
Education of the Presbyterian Church, U.S.A.

Six Freshmen Are Selected

Carter, Crook, Driver, Lilly, Summers, Winn Are Debaters

Rowe Driver, George Lilly, Bill Summers, and Albert Winn were chosen to serve on the Freshman Debate team last Friday
night, January 13, at the trials which were held in the Eumenean Society Hall. Bob Carter and Jim Crook were
selected as alternates. Joe Calvin, President of the Forensic Council, presided over the meeting, and members of the Forensic Council
acted as judges. The question was: “Resolved: that the United States should cease to use public funds for the purpose
of stimulating business.” Calvin and the faculty committee are now working up a definite spring schedule for the debaters with
a trip as part of it.

Professor To Hold Vespers

Dr. Schenck Will Conduct Services During Examination Period

On next Sunday, January 22, the regular Sunday evening vesper services will be held in the chapel at 6:30 as
usual, but at this time, Professor Louis B. Schenck, of the Davidson College Faculty, will lead the services. Although this
service is in the middle of exams, it is expected that a large number of students will attend, because it
is necessary that we renew our spiritual strength even during the examination period. Those who have heard Dr. Schenck in
the past know the type of speaker he is—one whose talks are always interesting and profound. Dr. Schenck has led
the services in the College Auditorium many times in the past, and he knows what kind of sermons the students
appreciate.

BREAKING-IN PIPES

the idea: Fill and light your pipe in the usual manner,put the stem of a lighted pipe on a suction
tube—and presto, your pipe is broken in. But be careful, for the plan’s originators warn that too steady application of
the suction tube will rapidly burn out the pipe altogether!

Here's new Music Registration

The Davidson Music Department wishes to make an announcement concerning instructions for the new session. Any students who have not
signed up for instruction during the fall session may still sign up for the new semester. Private instruction will be
given in piano, voice, and orchestral instruments. Those wishing to enroll for this should contact the Department of Music office
during the exam period or during the first week of the new semester.

Pass Amendment To By-Laws

New Staff Takes Over News Work

Seven Students Aid Dr. Lingle And Mr. Jackson In Alumni Office

Dr. Walter L. Lingle has recently announced that the work of the Alumni Office, which was vacated in December by
Conrad Frederick Smith, would be divided among a group of students and professors. Dr. Lingle and Mr. F. L. Jackson
are temporary heads of the office and have been requested by the Standing Committee of the Alumni Council to prepare
a permanent plan for the work. This plan will be presented to the Committee at a future meeting.

A few days ago Dr. Lingle and Mr. Jackson met with the students who have been working in the Alumni
Office, and, after discussing the problem from every angle, they assigned men to attend to the various divisions of the
Office. Tony Casali will continue to handle all the athletic news and stories as he has done in the past.
Lawson Withers, who has written the general news so far this year, will continue in that capacity, with Neal Scott
as his assistant. Scott will aid Casali with the sport news. Jack Ferguson has taken over the task of keeping
the records and the addressograph with E. W. Talmadge as his assistant. Angus Lytch has also taken charge of the
photography department after assisting Smith the first semester. Jerry Doster will also continue in the position of reading all the
newspapers to find articles of interest about Davidson and its Alumni. Dr. K. J. Foreman has been requested to take
charge of publishing the next issue of the Alumni Journal, which will appear sometime around the first of April. He
has consented to do this, which, like all the other work, was handled by Fred Smith in the past. The
arrangements that have been made are not permanent and will be used only until a definite plan is decided upon
by Dr. Lingle and Mr. Jackson.

Local Bureau Places Grads

College Committees Find Employment for Old Students and Seniors

Through its placement bureau, the college has for the last few years attempted to serve its graduating students and alumni.
Two committees have been appointed by the administration to serve with this department. Dr. P. H. Gwynn and the registrar,
Mr. P. W. Hengeveld, were selected as the committee for the placement of teachers, and Doctor Hillhouse and the registrar
as a committee for the placement of those who wish to go into business. The records set up for the
work are in the registrar’s office.

Applications are now being received from business concerns for Davidson graduates, and a little later requests will be coming in
from the public schools. For that reason, Mr. Hengeveld stated, it will be well for those interested in this service
to fill out the application blank and have their names placed on file as soon as possible. These application forms
may be secured in the registrar's office. In the past, both of the committees have been very fortunate in placing
Davidson graduates in good positions. During the past two summers, they have been unable to supply the demand for high
school teachers.

Makes Election Changes

Revision Proposed by Webb Will Make Point System More Practical

According to a statement made by Mr. F. W. Hengeveld, registrar, the period of registration will be held Thursday, Friday,
and Saturday of this week. All students who wish to make changes in their courses for the second semester will
be expected to register the changes at that time. However, it is not necessary for men who are continuing the
same courses to come, Mr. Hengeveld states.

College Host To Musicians

Band and Orchestral Authorities Lecture and Demonstrate Here

Last Saturday the State band and orchestral clinic was held here at Davidson College for students who plan to compete
in the State music contests. This was the first clinic of its kind to be held in North Carolina. The
program consisted mainly of lectures and demonstrations delivered by leading music authorities from various parts of the State. Among those
present were: J. C. Harper and Leonard Meretta of the Lenoir high school band; Dean Hugh A. Altvater and George
Dickieson of Woman's College, University of North Carolina; Earl Slocum, director of the University of North Carolina band; Phillip Separk
of Concord; and James Christian Pfohl, head of the Davidson Music Department.

Various instruments were demonstrated during the morning and discussions were held during the afternoon on the contest pieces. Visiting students
were allowed to sit in and play with these organizations. Under the direction of Dean Altvater, the orchestral demonstrations were
given at 2:00 P.M. by the Women's College string orchestra. The Davidson College band rendered the band demonstrations directed by
Mr. Pfohl and Mr. Slocum. During the day all of the contest pieces for the spring competition were played.

Quadwranglers

A tea will be held for members of the Quadwranglers Club on Thursday afternoon, January 26th, at 4:30. The club
usually has a paper given on some scholarly or popular subject, but as this meeting is scheduled during examinations, the
usual formal program has been omitted.

Rev. McClure Speaks To Vespers Audience

Lincolnton Pastor Discusses “What Is The Reason For Living”

On Sunday evening, January 15, at 6:30, the regular Sunday evening vesper service was held in the College Auditorium. The
speaker for the evening was the Reverend Mr. A. B. McClure. Mr. McClure was introduced by Wade Boggs, General Secretary
of the Y.M.C.A., as one who would be remembered by the Juniors and Seniors of Davidson, for just two years
ago, Mr. McClure was the Secretary of the Y.M.C.A. He was well known by many students then, and in his
last years at Davidson, he was pastor of the Unity Church. Now he is pastor of the Presbyterian Church of
Lincolnton, N. C.

A report was given by Wade Boggs in regard to the collections taken each Sunday at Vespers service. This money
went for several purposes, and this Sunday was being given to the local chapter of the American Red Cross. Professor
Beaty gave a short talk as to what the money would be used for, and why it was needed.

The Reverend Mr. McClure then took charge of the service. He began the evening service by reading the 8th Psalm.
The Reverend Mr. McClure then asked the question: “What am I here for? What is the reason for living?” He
said that many people live or know what the purpose of their lives are. He stated that they should do
this if possible. Jesus was saddened many times by the deeds of those who loved him, but he had so
set his course of life that he carried it out fully toward the end.
