~ The Davidsonian — Founded By the Class of 1915
1938 Member 1939 Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON AVE. New York, N. Y.
Chicago * Boston * Los Angeles * San Francisco

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson,
North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879

THE DAVIDSONIAN

length and breadth of those Asiatic islands. For more than forty years, ever since Rear Admiral Dewey sailed into Manila
harbor and wiped out Spanish tyranny with a few well-aimed shells, the Philippines have been a heavy load on American
hearts and conscience. The Filipinos had expected independence and somehow found it hard to understand the doctrine of the “White
man’s burden to civilize his barbaric brothers.” It is hard to do favors for people who don't appreciate them, and
it took a large army of occupation many years to bring the religion of peace to the backward race. Conservative
United States citizens found it hard to condemn imperial activities of foreign countries when their own nation was providing the
precedent. There was jubilation on both sides, therefore, when Congress decided to give the islands that complete independence they so
dearly wanted.

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
CURRIE

BUSINESS MANAGER

EDITORIAL STAFF
Managing Editor Jack Abernathy
Managing Editor Paul Bumbarge
Managing Editor Tom Cauble
Managing Editor Ned Watson
Managing Editor Lawson Withers
Managing Editor Andy Dale
Associate Editor Erle Austin
Associate Editor Jack Holland
Associate Editor Karl Hudson
Associate Editor Sam Spencer
Associate Editor Bobby Williams
Associate Editor Ames Lytch
Movie Editor
Staff Photographer

BUSINESS STAFF
Asst. Business Manager Robert Codington
Advertising Manager Chevy Jones
Advertising Manager Hector McLean
Circulation Manager Eldredge Brown
Collection Manager Jack Covington
Fred Little

I Don’t Want To Die

Central Europe is a madhouse. China is reeling under the cannon blows of Japan. Spain has tottered before the onslaught
of Fascist Franco. The United States has warned Germany that she will tolerate no foolishness. The world is arming. But
I don't want to die.

I'm just starting life. I've seen but little of the world and I want to see more, but I want
to see more of a peaceful world, not one torn with passion and bleeding with hysteria. Yet, ironically, because of
my age and physical condition I shall probably be called in the first draft when the United States declares war.
But I don't want to die. I shall have to shoulder a rifle, even though I don't want to. I
shall be asked to shoot down my fellow men whom I have never seen and against whom I have no
grudge, with whom I would rather be friendly. I shall have to shoot him before he shoots me, whom he
has never seen and against whom he has no grudge, with whom he would rather be friendly.

I have to go to war. There is no reason in this wide world why I should be forced to
shoulder a rifle and take part in wholesale destruction. I'm young and there is no reason why I should die
defending my country against invasion by fighting on a battlefield in France or Germany. But what chance have we, the
youth who must lose our lives, when that military music starts, when the band swings down the street? What chance
have we when the women scream at us “Will you go or must I?" What chance have we when the
high-powered propagandists turn out atrocity tales by the dozen, vividly imagining how English or French children are having their hands
cut off or how women are being raped? Why must we have war? Why cannot we be rational? Why must
we damn the youth of another nation for something they have not done? Why must we kill these youths, protecting
our frontiers in Europe? Why must we be such asses as to plunge wildly into an abysmal war that may
end in a return to barbarism?

I am not afraid to defend my country, but I do not want to defend France, England, and Russia when
I live in America. I do not want war. I DO NOT WANT TO DIE!
—Daily Northwestern.

Concerning Narrow Minded People

A group of Davidson students came face to face with one of the finest examples of one-sided thinking in modern
history last week when it heard Vincenti Villamin, noted Philippine lawyer and economist, plead for continued American rule in his
homeland. Actually, a native Filipino stood before a public gathering and denounced the legislation which was so benevolently enacted less
than a decade ago to grant complete national freedom to his race. The speaker was not a traitor sneaking about
a foreign country in exile; he was a man whose word is respected and quoted throughout the world.

Now in a very short period the Filipinos have begun to appreciate those advantages they so thoroughly detested for over
forty years. While the politicians were fighting for independence, they let their economic setup become hopelessly dependent on American tariff
exemption. They have suddenly realized that the Philippines will be just another Asiatic country outside the American customs barrier when
independence comes. The stars and stripes, once the symbol of aggression, has become the one bulwark against foreign invasion. So
today we have Philippine lobbyists vigorously backing those very conditions they once so vehemently protested. Those Filipinos could probably have
saved all of us a lot of trouble if they had been a little more far-sighted. As it is they
thought over only one side—their side—and neglected to consider any unfavorable reaction from that other, inevitable side. With their eyes
finally opened to the true facts it is a hard fight to patch things up before an irreparable damage is
done. Whether a nation or a college is involved, disillusionment may present disastrous difficulties for people who do not look
on both sides.

CAMPUS IN CA... ON “HEY, GUARD”
Thurs., Oct. 12, 1939

GLEANINGS
By MELVIN MEANS

HOW'S DIS FOR A MASTERPIECE?

I like being modest, gentlemen. A face becoming as familiar as Tenny's at the rink is that of Frosh Hobbie
Wellford. You can't compete with experience. We wonder how many of you guys saw the elephants come down the streets
of Charlotte very early Sunday morning? Several of the boys report it. Guess we'll have to excuse them this time
but wonder how they felt later on in the day? And what was Southgate Jones doing wandering around Lynchburg over
the weekend? And since last week we have learned that with the football team away the weekend was rather devoid
of excitement. Of course, the activities connected with the State-Clemson affair afforded some little degree of personality. The dance would
have been pretty much of a flop had it not been for the Davidsonians. Appling was the mode and he
really went to town. New York—who is socially and economically independent and thinks therefore that she needs no husband, Allan
Jones, as an opera singer, gets the cold shoulder but MacMurray, as an adventurer from Bali, gets her. Paramount says
watch Moppet Carolyn Lee as Babe from Bali.

Saturday

Stanley and Livingston: Spencer Tracy gives his usual crack performance as the newspaperman in search for Dr. Livingston, who is
played by the inimitable Cedric Hardwicke. Richard Greene, the publisher’s son champions his cause and Nancy Kelly becomes his in-

field in France or Germany. But what chance have we, the youth who must lose our lives, when that military
music starts, when the band swings down the street? What chance have we when the women scream at us “Will
you go or must I?" What chance have we when the high-powered propagandists turn out atrocity tales by the dozen,
vividly imagining how English or French children are having their hands cut off or how women are being raped? Why
must we have war? Why cannot we be rational? Why must we damn the youth of another nation for something
they have not done? Why must we kill these youths, protecting our frontiers in Europe? Why must we be such
asses as to plunge wildly into an abysmal war that may end in a return to barbarism?

I am not afraid to defend my country, but I do not want to defend France, England, and Russia when
I live in America. I do not want war. I DO NOT WANT TO DIE!
—Daily Northwestern.

Concerning Narrow Minded People

A group of Davidson students came face to face with one of the finest examples of one-sided thinking in modern
history last week when it heard Vincenti Villamin, noted Philippine lawyer and economist, plead for continued American rule in his
homeland. Actually, a native Filipino stood before a public gathering and denounced the legislation which was so benevolently enacted less
than a decade ago to grant complete national freedom to his race. The speaker was not a traitor sneaking about
a foreign country in exile; he was a man whose word is respected and quoted throughout the world.

Now in a very short period the Filipinos have begun to appreciate those advantages they so thoroughly detested for over
forty years. While the politicians were fighting for independence, they let their economic setup become hopelessly dependent on American tariff
exemption. They have suddenly realized that the Philippines will be just another Asiatic country outside the American customs barrier when
independence comes. The stars and stripes, once the symbol of aggression, has become the one bulwark against foreign invasion. So
today we have Philippine lobbyists vigorously backing those very conditions they once so vehemently protested. Those Filipinos could probably have
saved all of us a lot of trouble if they had been a little more far-sighted. As it is they
thought over only one side—their side—and neglected to consider any unfavorable reaction from that other, inevitable side. With their eyes
finally opened to the true facts it is a hard fight to patch things up before an irreparable damage is
done. Whether a nation or a college is involved, disillusionment may present disastrous difficulties for people who do not look
on both sides.

CAMPUS IN CA... ON “HEY, GUARD”
Thurs., Oct. 12, 1939

GLEANINGS
By MELVIN MEANS

HOW'S DIS FOR A MASTERPIECE?

I like being modest, gentlemen. A face becoming as familiar as Tenny's at the rink is that of Frosh Hobbie
Wellford. You can't compete with experience. We wonder how many of you guys saw the elephants come down the streets
of Charlotte very early Sunday morning? Several of the boys report it. Guess we'll have to excuse them this time
but wonder how they felt later on in the day? And what was Southgate Jones doing wandering around Lynchburg over
the weekend? And since last week we have learned that with the football team away the weekend was rather devoid
of excitement. Of course, the activities connected with the State-Clemson affair afforded some little degree of personality. The dance would
have been pretty much of a flop had it not been for the Davidsonians. Appling was the mode and he
really went to town. New York—who is socially and economically independent and thinks therefore that she needs no husband, Allan
Jones, as an opera singer, gets the cold shoulder but MacMurray, as an adventurer from Bali, gets her. Paramount says
watch Moppet Carolyn Lee as Babe from Bali.

Saturday

Stanley and Livingston: Spencer Tracy gives his usual crack performance as the newspaperman in search for Dr. Livingston, who is
played by the inimitable Cedric Hardwicke. Richard Greene, the publisher’s son champions his cause and Nancy Kelly becomes his in-Stokowski's
Philadelphia Symphony Orchestra. ... One of the best recordings we have heard recently is the Andrew Sisters’ “Chico's Love Song.”
Their long-awaited “Jumpin’ Jive" is on the other side and outshines its author's recording. Don’t miss the version of ...
Ray McKinley, without a doubt one of the best skin-beaters of the day, is no longer a side man with
the Jimmy Dorsey band. He has teamed up with Will Bradley (nee Schwichtenberg), famous radio trombonist, and started a band.
I daresay the young Davidsonian would be highly disappointed! Most Your Film Report Card — Fast and Furious: This is
evident over the weekend. It wasn't due to the review. From the cast of Fran- Lington, Lash? You didn’t get
married, did you? ... And after his conversion of last week, Jonas tried it again this week and wasn’t too
successful—his Bluefield schoolmarm stood him up. Too bad, Jonas ... the worm has turned and SPENCER has had another PICTURE
exchange. This time the new photo went BACK to GREENSBORO in return for his shot. Tone and Ann Southern, it
looks as if it will be a better than usual B picture. Wednesday: Here I Am A Stranger: Richard Greene
is a university student who learns about life in college after leading a sheltered existence with mother and father No.
2. Uses an imported boy-girl technique on father No. 1 and sire. The supporting cast is good and includes Roland
Young and Brenda Joyce, the newcomer.

Richmond got his competition with Frances Moses (Sweetbriar) from Andy Dale and VMI’s full squadron... Bill Ross, with Currie’s assistance,
was quite busy with his little address book over the weekend. Any good prospects, Ross? And with this issue, I
forego all attempts of hiding my identity as the Gleanor. A lot of you fellows already had the dope; some
of you didn’t. At any rate, I want to apologize for using too many of the same names, but from
now on—with the help of all you—I want to dish the dirt on those who have escaped unscathed. Come on,
you guys, help me uncover all that goes on under cover of night. Keeping the wires hot from Charlotte lately
have been several credit companies desirous of ratings on one Melvin (Mad Monk) Means. It is said that this gent
has now made down payments on several hotels in Charlotte and desires to complete the purchase on time.

Dick Kelly and George Reeves report that they got the biggest rush on the floor at Salem Saturday night. Nothing
seems to be headed toward the top. Al Donahue is somewhat hindered by playing in the Rainbow Room these days,
for this spot calls for society music, while Al and the boys like to do a little rug-cutting occasionally. As
you will notice, they let off steam during their broadcasts, and sometimes when the younger set makes up the majority
of the dancers.

Ken Gray has come through again with a delectable recording of “Shadows,” showing that he is still one of the
smoothest in the business. Earl Hines’ “Indiana” should become an outstanding disc, even though it is quite short. “Cherokee,” one
of Charlie Barnet's latest platters, comes highly recommended by all who have heard it. Congratulations to the Pan-Hell for obtaining
Dutch McMillan and the Duke Ambassadors for the Homecoming set of dances. This is one of the best college bands
in the south today. They play both sweet and swing and have excellent arrangements. His drummer, Bubber Thomson, can really
“beat it out.” Let's all turn out and make this set a big success so that we can get THE
band that everyone wants for Mid-Winters. (Ed. Note—Glenn Miller!)

IN THE MAIL: In spite of all the various phone calls from the “Duke Athletic Department” and notices from Wallace
Wade, George McAfee, and Rolo Perdue, only one genuine comment has been received so far... and that, oddly enough, in
the form of a complaint against the author of SUPER SNOOPERS for one of his comments about WCUNC in Greensboro.
In part, it goes as follows: Quote.

Dear Frank, We W. C. girls feel that the article in the dirt column (see Davidsonian, September 28) is highly
uncomplimentary to the many cute girls on our campus. I want you all to know that most of the girls
in our dorm have dates at least a week ahead of time, and that hanging out windows to attract boys
is highly unnecessary. Now, if you Davidson boys think that cute girls are looking for dates, I just wish you
would send some of your fine young men (I wonder if she’s being sarcastic) up here to attract the cute
girls. Then it would be easy to get the Greensboro boys dates for each weekend, as a number of Greensboro
boys call me and plead with me to get them cute dates. Frank, if you boys are still in doubt
as to our ability to get dates without hanging out of windows, then just tell the boys to try and
see what time they can make with one of South Spencer's cute girls. Most of us are quite satisfied with
the string that we have. Sincerely, “A South Spencer Glamour Girl” (We have many) End Quote.

Well, fellows, personally I would rather have the wrath of Wallace Wade on me, but we got this other letter.
“I wish that he (the author of all this trouble) would stop slamming W.C. and the girls here. We really
have a fine school, and the girls don’t hang out of the windows when boys pass by... perhaps there are
a few ‘hangings’ when Davidson boys come by... they are so cute!” Sincerely, Another S. S. G. G.

Mr. Wade isn't the only one who makes unnecessary cracks about others. I think, perhaps, that the second letter is
telling more of the truth, however. Having never been to Greensboro, I do not know. To all of you who
wish to back up our dirt writer, address all mail to South Spencer Hall, Greensboro, North Carolina, c/o South Spencer
Glamour Girl.

ANOTHER DENOMINATIONAL SCHOOL: One hundred miles south of Nashville, Tenn., there is a university built upon a foundation of solid
rock and stone. The University of the South, founded by the Episcopalians, rests in a setting as serene and tranquil
as does the sun when it disappears behind the last mountain. I had the privilege of visiting this school several
weeks ago, and while there, the natural comparison between that school and my own was evident. Two observations were paramount:
First, that all students wore coats and ties to classes, and second, that Seniors always wore their black graduation robes.
Aside from this marked difference, the Sewanee men act as does a Davidsonian; they all are true gentlemen.
