Page Six THE DAVIDSONIAN Thurs., Oct. 19, 1939

Repair Work On Church To Begin Next Saturday
Addition to Be Completed For November Homecoming

Working Girl

Bob Miller Has Mishap On Air Trip

Weekly Schedule

Thursday, October 19
7:15 P.M.—Social Fraternities.

Friday, October 20
7:00 P.M.—Davidsonian
7:00 P.M.—Pi Gamma Mu.
8:00 P.M.—Alpha Epsilon Delta.

[Continued from Page One]

Professor of Business Administration at the College, has written and published several books besides the present one. Also, he has written reviews of many recent books, and he has been the author of several magazine articles as well.

Mr. Chatters, who is associate author of the book, is the executive director of the Municipal Finance Officers Association of the United States and Canada.

Contains 528 Pages

The book, “Local Government Debt Administration,” was published this year by the Prentice Hall Publishing Company of New York City. It contains five hundred and twenty-eight pages, dealing with the subject denoted by its title.

SEVEN MEN RECEIVE RECOGNITION

[Continued from Page One]

The purpose of the fraternity is to recognize leadership in all phases of campus life as scholarship is recognized by Phi Beta Kappa. Dr. Vowles said that the fraternity recognized five types of leadership on the campus: (1) leadership in scholarship, (2) leadership in athletics, (3) leadership in publication work, (4) leadership in social and religious activities, and (5) leadership in forensics, dramatics, music, and other arts.

The Juniors rapped last year who were sitting on the stage with the faculty members were: Gales McClintock, president, Sid Crane, Sam Spencer, Jack Holland, Dick Kenyon, Bob Ramsey, and Tony Casali.

FACULTY CLUB

[Continued from Page Four]

The freedom of four freshmen was abridged last Wednesday in chapel when President Benny Harrison of the Freshman Court of Control sentenced four yearlings to expend their energies on the Davidson campus for periods ranging from one to three weeks.

Tommy Lane was given one week for failure to wear the prescribed freshman cap. He was outdone by Tommy McLaughlin who was canned for three weeks for failure to wear rat cap, failure to carry laundry, and insubordination to upperclassmen. This same sentence was conferred upon P. F. Busby, who was given three weeks for the same multiple offenses. Jack Ewart was also clearly ordained by section par. 6 of the Frosh Regulations. It is hoped that these sentences will create new zest among the frosh for obedience to the rules laid down by the Court of Control as they are announced as being mere forerunners of what is yet to come, should this rebirth of spirit among the frosh fail to materialize.

FIGURES ON NEW CLASS

[Continued from Page One]

New Jersey 3, West Virginia 3, New York 2, Ohio 1, Oklahoma 1, Connecticut 1, and Louisiana 1. Korea and Belgium Congo are the foreign countries represented.

Some of the freshmen gave two reasons for coming to Davidson, and this is why there are more answers to this question than there are students. The following reasons were given: character 38, college spirit 29, alumni 27, ideals of student body 23, wishes of parents 18, size of college 13, near home 8, faculty 7, friends 6, headmaster of preparatory school 3, advice of other members of family 1, influence of southern Conference 1.

BURTON GIVES

[Continued from Page Three]

He also presented the possibility of establishing another chapel seven miles west of Davidson in a rural community which is not reached by any church.

Always Ask for “S & P” Peanut Butter Sandwiches Salted Peanuts Candy

Manufactured by Swinson Food Products Charlotte, N. C.

CHILDREN'S COLDS

FOR DIRECT RELIEF from coughing, phlegm, irritation, clogged air passages, misery of colds—rub throat, chest, and back with Vicks VapoRub. Its poultice-and-vapor action brings relief without dosing. ALSO, FOR HEAD COLD “sniffles,” melt a spoonful of VapoRub in hot water. Then have the child breathe in the steaming vapors.

DAVIDSON STUDENTS are ALWAYS WELCOME

THE WOODEN BOWL Just Off Tryon at Fourth

Sunday, October 22
10:15 A.M.—Sunday School.
11:15 A.M.—Church.
6:30 P.M.—Vespers

Monday, October 23
7:00 P.M.—"D" Club.
7:15 P.M.—Davidsonian.
8:00 P.M.—Delta Phi Alpha.
9:00 P.M.—Sigma Delta Psi.

Tuesday, October 24
7:00 P.M.—I. R. C.
8:00 P.M.—Le Cercle Francais.
9:00 P.M.—Sigma Upsilon.

Wednesday, October 25
7:00 P.M.—Commerce Club.
8:00 P.M.—Eta Sigma Pi.
9:00 P.M.—YMCA Cabinet

Celebration

Actual work on the kitchen and extension to the John Howard Men’s Cabin of the Davidson Church will begin this Saturday at 7:30 A.M. when the men of the church will gather to lay the foundations and start placing the logs for the sides.

This addition is to be 16 feet long and 22 feet wide and is expected to be completed by the Unity Church's Homecoming on November 12. Other improvements for the church include the new pews, which it is hoped will be installed next week. Each member of the Men’s Bible Class is subscribing for himself or for members of his family to purchase one of the pews.

Homecoming Plans

Mr. Rodman Williams, pastor of the church, said that “plans are made for the biggest homecoming in many a day.” Some of the Davidson alumni are expected to be present.

Bob Miller Forced Down Twice While Flying to V. M. I. Game

Many students saw the games which Davidson played in Bluefield and Sumter, but few had the adventures that Bob Miller, Senior at Davidson and owner and pilot of a small monoplane, had in getting to them.

Forced Landing

When Bob and a single companion set out for Bluefield in his tiny plane, he little suspected that two forced landings lay ahead. He was forced to set his plane down between a haystack and a fence on a small Virginia farm.

On securing five gallons of rather foul gasoline, he again took off, only to find after three attempts that he could not gain altitude. He was forced to land again and wait for better weather.in a RESORAEL EH BEMNGIDAL marriage, husbands rated their dye ito murky weather. He could be on the program, Sx pal). RAY Toy Wart: TiSONs SoA acm HAST WW RON CS MRED WHO Te ne Re 79 per cent “very happy” and “happy,” and only 2.4 percent judged theirs “very unhappy.” Wives rated their marriage as their husbands and agreed that 24 per cent of their marriages were very unhappy. By that time the fog and rain had become so dense that he could not fly across the two ranges. After flying to and fro in the valley, he finally maneuvered (he does not yet know how) through a narrow pass and landed safely in Bluefield. The trip back was made in only an hour and forty-five minutes. Last Saturday Bob and Marvin Sink made an uneventful flight to the game in Sumter in an hour and ten minutes. Bob plans to take several more trips in the near future, probably soon after lunch in November. They will be greeted by the Davidson students at date bureaus set up on the lawn in front of Chambers building. From here the couples will go to Richardson to start preparations for the game, where the guests will be allowed to stay for supper or where the busses will leave immediately after the game. Fraternities and the student center will probably be open to the guests and their dates during the homecoming 1939.

It was found that a marked relationship between happiness and handling family finances existed. Of those who always agreed, 61 per cent were very happy and only 3 per cent very unhappy. Of those who always disagreed, 50 per cent were very unhappy and none were very happy. Almost as important to happiness, the investigators found that an agreement concerning friends and handling of relatives must exist. Frequent demonstration of affection by the husband towards the wife also rated high as the sign of “very happy” marriages.

The survey, which will be published in book form, deals with predicting the future of marriage by exploding a number of popular beliefs on courtship and marriage. It was found, for example, that a longer courtship is in favor of better harmony and adjustment after marriage. Where the courtship lasted less than a year, there was incomplete happiness after marriage. Those who married after a courtship of three months or less were at a 30 per cent greater risk of permanent adjustment. The best term of courtship seems to be between one and five years. Courtships of ten years or more show less happiness after marriage.

The Davidson Wildcats carried the attack to the Gamecocks throughout the first three quarters and seemed on the verge of a score several times. Each time, however, South Carolina braced and stopped the threat by intercepting Sharpe's passes. Davidson's most serious threat came soon after hostilities started when Bell recovered one of the numerous South Carolina fumbles on the Gamecock 42. McClintock carried it to the 23. The threat was ended, however, when Sharpe's aerials were intercepted by Henson on the Carolina 20. In the third quarter, with the ball on the 37, Sharpe dropped back and threw a pass to Niven for a total of 28 yards. McClintock put the ball on the 20, but Sharpe's next attempt was intercepted by Henson on the Carolina 10.

The Henson brothers were outstanding ball carriers for the Gamecocks. Bigg and Nowak played the best ball in the line.

The soccer team may meet a collegiate team today. However, at this writing, final arrangements have not yet been reached. No other games have yet been added to the schedule which appeared in last week's Davidsonian.

Fred Waring’s offer was occasioned in the first place by the action of one of our Davidson alumni in New York City: Oscar Armstrong, a member of the class of '39, happened to hear that the Pennsylvania orchestra leader had offered to write an alma mater for any college which would furnish him with its traditions, etc. Armstrong immediately wired Waring to authenticate the offer and then wrote Sam Spencer the facts of the offer. Spencer presented the letter to the student body and the plan was accepted.

Bad Colds... are contracted through the feet. Safeguard yourself by visiting Norton, M.T.A. (Master of Tonsorial Arts).

VISITING CHARLOTTE THIS WEEKEND? RENT A CAR DRIVE IT YOURSELF, Inc. 110 South Church Street REASONABLE RATES

PERC WESTMORE, Warner Bros., a combination of color, line, and contour to bring out the best features of all stars: glamorous ANN SHERIDAN starring in THEIR FACES. PERC WESTMORE ANN SHERIDAN

Chesterfields: The RIGHT COMBINATION of the world’s best cigarette tobaccos brings out the best features of each. All the fine tobaccos in Chesterfield’s famous blend are known for some particular smoking quality... and the way Chesterfield combines these fine tobaccos is why you get a milder, better-tasting smoke with a more pleasing aroma. That is why, when you try them we believe you'll say... for your pleasure... "The RIGHT COMBINATION of the world’s best cigarette tobaccos."