Sigma Alpha Epsilon Receives Scholarship Cup

Z—528 ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA

The Davidsonian

LIBERTAS

Fall Services Will Be Held Oct. 31-Nov. 2

VOL. XXVII. DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 1939 No. 2.

SAE’s Record High Average To Win Prize

Pi Ka’s and Kappa Sig’s Cop Second, Third Places In Scholastic Tilt

Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity, climaxing a phenomenal rise from her position at the bottom of the ratings in 1936-37, captured
the fraternity scholarship cup with an average of 1.9153 for the year 1938-39. As figures released from the registrar's office
reveal, the competition was rather close, the S.A.E.’s topping the Pika’s by only .0026. The difference between highest and lowest
ratings was less than four-tenths of a point. Quite a considerable shake-up was observed in the order of ratings. As
S.A.E. rocketed up from fourth place, Phi Gamma Delta, last year’s cup-holders, dropped down to fourth, exchanging places with the
victors. Pi Kappa Alpha jumped from sixth to second, while Kappa Sigma dropped down one more notch to the third
position. Pi Kappa Phi and Kappa Alpha rose in the scale, while Sigma Phi Epsilon, Phi Delta Theta, Theta Pi,
and Beta lost ground.

Averages

On the whole, the fraternity averages are much better than 1937-38. The average for all Greeks is 1.78 as against
1.6 that year. The 1937-38 high was 1.82959 as against the 1.9153 mark chalked up by the 1938-39 winners. However,
the Greeks have failed to regain the 1936-37 mark. The fraternity average that year was 1.9 and three groups averaged
over 2.000. The fraternity average is almost identical with that of the entire student body, both being approximately 1.78. Actual
ratings follow: Sigma Alpha Epsilon, 1.9153; Pi Kappa Alpha, 1.9127; Kappa Sigma, 1.8939; Phi Gamma Delta, 1.8709; Pi Kappa Phi,
1.8366; Phi Delta Theta, 1.7766; Kappa Alpha, 1.6794; Sigma Phi Epsilon, 1.6188; Beta Theta Pi, 1.5643. The highest average ever
reached in any one year was the 2.314 mark set by Sigma Phi Epsilon in 1932-33. This year’s grades not
only fall far below that record but are in most cases below the ten-year averages disclosed last year. The S.A.E.’s,
Pika’s, and Pi Kap’s were the only three groups to advance above their ten-year marks. The other six lodges dropped
below the average chalked up during the past decade.

Local Church Seeks Pastor

Last Sunday, September 24, the local Presbyterian Church held a congregational meeting to select a committee to review possible candidates
and nominate a suitable person to serve the church as pastor. The committee is composed of the following: E. A.
Beaty, F. L. Jackson, John C. Bailey, J. V. Lore, C. A. Potts, Mrs. A. V. Goldiere, Miss Maude Vinson,
Miss Grace James, Mrs. L. B. Schenck. The pastorate has been left vacant since the death on July 17th of
Dr. Harry M. Moffett, who had served the local church for the last twelve years. During the past two months,
Dr. Walter L. Lingle, the college president, has filled in regularly each Sunday and will continue to do so until
the pastor is chosen. Dr. Darby Fulton, Executive Secretary of Foreign Missions of the Presbyterian Church of the United States,
and Rev. H. M. Moffett, Jr., have each conducted services. Since the committee has just been formed, it has seriously
considered no particular prospect for the pastorate. Mr. F. L. Jackson has, however, received a number of letters of recommendation
from Davidson Alumni. It is expected that the church committee will investigate several of these recommendations in the near future.

Duke Is Opened At Last

It was announced Monday by Mr. Jackson that the last floor of the James B. Duke Dormitory would be ready
for occupancy by the time the Davidsonian came out. This dormitory incorporates many features new to the Davidson campus. It
has overhead lighting fixtures, wall brackets with plug-in outlets over the lavatories, and baseboard outlets in every room. Unlike the
other dormitories, Duke has single rooms, double rooms, and suites. Shrubbery will be planted all around the new building as
soon as the lawn is graded properly.

Group Plans To Buy 1940 Senior Blazers

The Committee on Senior Blazers, consisting of Jim Currie, chairman, John McGeachy, and Dave McLean, will meet sometime this week
to select from samples submitted by several of the leading clothing firms of Charlotte. The Senior Class will select by
elimination the fabric from which the Blazers will be made. There is no indication as to what style and color
the Blazers will be, but it is expected to resemble its predecessors. The Blazer last year was of Tan Camel’s
Hair in the popular three-button single-breasted plain-backed style.

Homecoming Is Date of Fall Dances

First Set To Be Held November 3 and 4; Students Get Holiday

Davidson’s first dance set of the season will be held November 3 and 4 on Homecoming weekend, Paul Marion, Pan
Hellenic Council president, announced this week. Marion declared that the annual fall set would be returned to its regular Homecoming
date this year. The inter-fraternity group is working to sign up one of the best bands ever presented outside of
mid-winters. The name of the group selected will be announced early in October. The dances will again be held in
the Charlotte Armory. A new system has been adopted for selecting the decorating committee for the 1939-40 dances. One man
from each of the nine fraternities has been selected to make up the group. They are: Tom McLean, Kappa Alpha,
and Charlie Yates, Kappa Sigma, co-chairmen; Shorty Parrish, Phi Gamma Delta; Jim McDonald, Pi Kappa Alpha; Frank Niven, Pi Kappa
Phi; Ed Watson, Sigma Phi Epsilon; Bob Balsley, Beta Theta Pi; Bud Gilmore, Phi Delta Theta.

Brown Is Delegate

Dr. C. K. Brown, head of the economics department of Davidson College, was present at the annual meeting of the
Synod of North Carolina at Greenville, N. C., Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday of last week. Dr. Brown represented the Union
Church of Davidson at the meeting of the Synod. A great part of the meeting was taken up with a
discussion of present-day problems confronting the Church. A great number of ministers and delegates from all over the state were
present at the convention. Dr. Brown returned to the campus in time to meet his Friday classes.

Masquers To Present Three Plays This Fall

Triad of One Act Dramas To Be Staged By Davidson Thespians

Three one-act plays will be given this fall under the sponsorship of the Red and Black Masquers, President Ken McIntyre
announced in an interview. These plays will be “Submerged,” “Uncle Tommy’s Harum,” and a third play which has not been
definitely decided upon. These plays were decided upon at the meeting of the Red and Black Masquers on Wednesday, September
20, with the assistance of Professor E. J. Erwin and Professor Tryouts were held Tuesday afternoon in the Quadwranglers room
with the English staff auditioning. When this paper went to press, the casts had not been selected. They will be
announced next week with the name of the third play. These dramas are scheduled to be produced about the middle
of October. The exact date has not yet been decided.

Graduate Playwriter

“Submerged” is a drama written by H. Stuart Cotman and LaVerge Shaw. It is the story of a group of
men in a sunken submarine. “Uncle Tommy’s Harum” was written by a former Davidson student and is a comedy. Both
plays have an all-male cast. The purpose in producing a play written by a former student while he was a
student at Davidson is to promote interest in playwriting among the student body, declared McIntyre. He added that if any
student is interested in writing a play and having it approved by members of the English staff, he would probably
have his work presented in the near future if it is suitable for production here.

Phi Members Try New Plan

Stimulation of Interest In Literary Work Is Object

In order to stimulate interest in literary work, in writing and in speaking, the Philanthropic Society will sponsor a new
plan this year. Each member will be required either to write a theme or to make a talk before the
society during each semester. From this, a contest in the program may be worked out in the future. As in
former years, the society will be working to promote literary work among the student members, in addition to as much
social activity as possible. Philanthropic Society President Jack Abernathy has announced that the society will meet on the first and
the third Tuesdays of each month at 7:15 o'clock. By this rule, the first meeting of the society will be
on October the third. All persons desiring to join the Philanthropic Literary Society should turn in their names to the
Secretary, Sandy McEachern, or to the President, Jack Abernathy, for consideration by the membership committee. All candidates will be required
to write a paper or make a talk before the society, as the committee will decide later, for admission into
the society.

“Scripts ’n Pranks” Plan To Use Frosh As Theme

Magazine’s First Appearance Will Be In November

“Freshmen” has been selected as the theme for the first issue of the 1939-40 “Scripts ’N Pranks,” Davidson's humor magazine,
Editor Jack Abernathy announced this week. The plans for the opening number were drawn up by the literary staff at
their first meeting in the parlor of Watts on September 22. The “Frosh” issue will appear during the first week
in November, andHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

The deadline for all material has been set for October 20. B. B. Plyler is the business manager of the
publication. Editor Abernathy reported that several experienced writers and cartoonists have been signed up for the staff, as well as
a large group of freshman candidates. This year’s publication will include, in addition to the regular short stories and cartoons,
a music column, poets’ corner, and a special article by the [Continued on Page Six]

Summer Work Ends July 29

Although Davidson's final exercises for the 1939 graduation period ended June 5, a summer schedule of summer school, band camp,
and a church conference kept the college dormitories open until July 29. One of the largest Presbyterian youth conferences ever
held on the Davidson campus convened June 8 for a five-day period. More than five hundred young people and counselors
filled the dormitories during the conference, which was climaxed by a special candle-light service on the freshman field Sunday evening,
June 11. The 1939 session of summer school opened June 13th as youth delegates left the campus. Approximately 100 students
attended the five-week session, with fifty men [Continued on Page Six]

Sam Wiley Will Conduct Fall Services This Year For a Three Day Period

Lenoir Band To Hearten Blue Devils

James C. Harper, Director of Famous Band, Is Davidson Alumnus

The Lenoir High School band will play at the Duke-Davidson game here Saturday afternoon. The band, under the direction of
Captain James C. Harper, will represent Duke as they are not planning to bring their organization. The Lenoir band is
recognized as one of the outstanding high school musical organizations in the country. It has won many contests and played
at famous celebrations throughout the East. The latest honor awarded the boys from Lenoir was their selection to represent North
Carolina at the World's Fair this summer. Director Harper is an alumnus and trustee of Davidson.

Davidson Band

As usual, the Davidson band will play during the game and will be on hand to entertain at the half.
Last Saturday night in Greensboro the band made its first public appearance of the season. Coming on the field 75
strong at the halfway mark of the game with State, the boys in Red and Black made two novel formations.
First, they formed into a rolling barrel and played the “Beer Barrel Polka.” This was followed by a star formation
while the band played “Star Dust.” Mr. Pfohl plans to have various special music for the other games of the
season. For the game on October 25, there will be the annual high school day, which will be attended by
high school bands throughout this section of the country. The bandmasters’ band, composed of band directors of this section, will
play at the Carolina game in Winston-Salem on November 11. For the Homecoming game with the Citadel on November 4,
a band composed of former students of the Davidson Summer Band Camp will form a reunion band to play for
the game.

Frat Council Drafts Plans For Big Year

Honorary Fraternity Council To Post Report Sheet After Meetings

The Honorary Fraternity Council at its meeting Monday afternoon in the parlor of Watts Dormitory drafted a number of new
plans which are to be put into effect this year. The first work of the council was to change the
dates and hours of some of the honorary fraternity meetings. Heretofore, some of the meetings have conflicted with the meetings
of other campus organizations and the council has attempted to correct this fault.

Information Sheet

After each bi-weekly meeting, the fraternities will hand in what is known as an “Information Sheet.” This sheet will be
a report of the meeting. It will contain an account of the program, the number of members enrolled, the number
of members present, and finally, some remarks by the secretary of the organization on the manner in which the meeting
was conducted. “By means of this Information Sheet,” said Warren Ludlam, president of the council, “we will be able to
tell just how each fraternity [Continued on Page Six]

Fall Services, to be held October 31 through November 2, will be led this year by Rev. Samuel S. Wiley
of Thomasville, N. C. Rev. Mr. Wiley, a graduate of Davidson, is well known by many Davidson students.

Seniors Pace Honor Roster Of Thirty-Two

Seniors, Sophomores, and Freshmen Exceed Totals For Past Year

Thirty-two men—thirteen Seniors, six Juniors, six Sophomores, and seven Freshmen—attained the coveted position of being on the Honor Roll for
their excellent scholastic work during the past school year. To be eligible for the Honor Roll an average of 95
or better in all subjects must be made. This year’s group has eight more members than the roll of last
year. There was an increase in members in all classes but the Junior class, which dropped off three members. The
Senior class added on seven men, the Sophomore class one man, and the Freshman class three men.

Seniors: J. L. Ballard, Jr., J. F. Doty, W. T. Hemphill, T. A. Page, W. Mullen, W. Rainey, J. H.
Reisner, C. W. Roberts, W. S. Robinson, R. G. Rosser, F. R. Stair, Locke White, and S. C. Webb.

Juniors: W. H. Boyce, R. D. Doty, T. H. Guion, E. C. Hulen, T. L. Harnsburger, and J. L. Withers.

Sophomores: H. T. Bahnson, Chase Brenizer, [Continued on Page Five]

Freshmen: [Continued on Page Five]

Paper Thursday

“The Davidsonian” staff announces a new date of publication for the 1939-40 term. In future, the weekly college news will
appear each Thursday afternoon instead of the usual Wednesdays. This change, which is required by contract, promises to cut down
printing errors and aid “The Davidsonian” in giving an accurate account of campus news. During the year the weekly paper
will present several new features to its readers. A “You Be The Editor” poll will start in the next issue,
and the Honorary Fraternity Council will also sponsor a column of club news. Due to the change of publication time,
the weekly meetings of the editorial staff will be held Friday evenings at seven o'clock. Tony Darby, sophomore, is president
of the newly-organized reporters’ club.

Mr. Wiley graduated from Davidson in 1932. While a student here, he was a member of the Y. M. C.
A. Cabinet, Phi Beta Kappa, Delta Kappa, Sigma Alpha Epsilon, and the Beaver Club. He was a Cadet Major in
the R.O.T.C. and was Captain of the Rifle Team. He became President of both the Young People of the Southern
Presbyterian Church and President of the Young People of the Synod of North Carolina. For several summers he was a
leader in the Boys’ Club at Montreat, N.C. After graduating, Mr. Wiley was Secretary of the YMCA and attended the
Theological Seminary. While there, he won a scholarship which entitled him to study in Scotland. His course in Scotland completed,
he returned to America and took up his pastorate in Thomasville. Last year Mr. Wiley returned to Davidson to lead
a discussion on “Prayer” for the YMCA Cabinet and the leaders of the hall prayer groups.

The services this year will start at chapel Tuesday morning, Oct. 31, and end the following Thursday night. The chapel
period will be lengthened each morning as is customary.

Building Boom Hits Davidson

One of the largest building booms in several years struck the town of Davidson this summer, as seven building contracts
forced construction companies to import both skilled and unskilled labor. Six new homes and an addition to the old dormitory,
Mooney House, now occupied by Mr. and Mrs. Peyton, were erected, and repairs and new decorations at the town high
school were made. The first new building was constructed in front of College Inn by Miss Minnie Schofield. It is
a two-story, brick veneered, double house. One of the largest private homes built in Davidson was by Mrs. Sam Thompson
on the corner of Concord Road and Woodlawn Ave. The frame colonial dwelling was designed to board both the Pi
Kappa Phi and Kappa Alpha fraternities, and accommodations for each of these organizations include two rooms. Dr. and Mrs. William
J. Martin will return to Davidson this fall to occupy their new home on Lorimer Road. Dr. Martin, president emeritus
of the college, was raised in Davidson, the son of a professor, but has lived in Greensboro since he retired
from active duty with the college. Prof. E. A. Beaty is occupying the new bungalow built by Dr. P. H.
Gwynn next to his own home in Faculty Heights. Prof. and Mrs. Beaty formerly lived on Concord Road. A second
bungalow was constructed during the summer next to the home of Prof. and Mrs. [Continued on Page Six]
