Thurs., Dec. 7, 1939 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Three

Question of the Week

With the annual arrival of ye olde Saint Nick not far in the offing, the topic of many a session
on the Hill is whether Christmas holidays should start later or earlier than this year’s, or stay just about as
they are now. So this week's question is: “Assuming that we have the same number of days (seventeen) for Christmas
holidays, when do you think they should begin?”

Charlie Luther, Senior (S. C.): I would prefer to get out a few days later than the present date set
so that we might have a few more days in the new year at home. And most of our college
friends don’t get home till later. I think that the twentieth would be an ideal day for the holidays to
start.

Cam Wilson, Sophomore (Ky.): Definitely they should begin later. Under the present conditions, some of us guys living over four
hundred miles away will have to start back on the first if we have cuts left, or even worse, if
we don't have any left, we'll have to start back on the thirty-first of December. And if we did have
cuts left, we'd have to start back before the New Year. I suggest we get out the twentieth, as the
majority of colleges are doing. Putting us Davidsons home five days ahead of the rest is going to be mighty
tough to take, especially when we leave home so soon after Christmas when all the rest have four or five
days left.

Bill Mitchell, Sophomore (Ala.): Although it would be advantageous to those of us who live some distance away from school
for the holidays to begin later than now scheduled, it will be of value to some students who live close
by to get out early to work or for some other reasons. It seems to me that the change that
has been made is about as fair a compromise as could be desired by all concerned.

B. B. Plyler, Senior (N. C.): Since I'm from North Carolina, it naturally doesn’t make much difference to me whether
holidays begin December 15th or 16th and end January 2nd or 3rd. Looking at it from another point of view,
though, it does seem that January 3rd would give some fellows that live in distant states an opportunity to have
all of New Year's Day at home or at least New Year's Eve. After all, everybody wants to have a
New Year's Eve party.

Dick Gammon, Senior (Brazil): To my mind, it would be much better if our Christmas holidays should start a few
days later. I think that the 15th is too early because by then the “Christmas spirit” has hardly got into
our homes, and we still have such a long time to go. I would much rather get out, say, on
the 20th, and then have until the 7th of January. To get back here and start work on the day
after New Year’s is pretty hard, and means that many of us will have to leave home on New Year's
and travel all day. I'd rather leave five days later and get back five days later.

Billy Pharr, Junior (Miss.): I am not in favor of having Christmas vacations as they are now. As it is,
we get out before many of the colleges and then have to leave before they go back. A large part
of the student body lives out of the state and [Continued on Page Six]

Davidson Radio Group Gives Original Script Program Over WSOC

Deals With Oddities Of The Postal System Of The United States

Band Quartet Is Presented

Russians Perform Here

Mr. Cumming To Entertain

Dr. Sprunt Speaks On “Christianity As a Bet” In Sermon At Vespers

Lynchburg Pastor Says a Real Christian Bets Everything On God

Members of the Davidson Radio Theatre presented an entirely new type of program in broadcast last night over station WSOC.
The broadcast consisted of an original script based upon oddities in the postal system of the United States.

Material for the show was prepared by J. B. Trapp of Los Angeles and the scripts were furnished by the
National Federation of Post Office Clerks. One of the series of programs is called “Postal Oddities.” Dr. Sprunt, who is
pastor of the Westminster Presbyterian Church in Lynchburg, Va., delivered a sermon at Vespers Sunday evening on “Christianity As A
Bet.” He expanded his topic by saying a real Christian was betting all he had that there was a God.

In the beginning, he referred to the lives of several great missionaries such as Judson and Livingstone who had served
God in China and Africa respectively. These men, Dr. Sprunt stated, left their homes and friends to serve God in
distant lands. He emphasized that the sacrifices made by these missionaries were just as important as their work.

Dr. Sprunt went on to say that more Christians were needed in the world today. He didn't stop with Christians
in foreign lands but also stressed the importance of Christians in America.

Davidson’s fourth radio broadcast will be presented tonight over radio station WBT in Charlotte. This program will be given by
the Symphonic Band under the leadership of James Christian Pfohl. The program is composed of various types of music that
is supposed to speak to everyone. It will consist of: “Davidsoniana” by Jack Holland; Chimes of Liberty, Goldman; Sweethearts Selection,
Victor Herbert; Sempre Fidelis, Sousa; Three Trumpeters, Agostini; Overture Hongroise, Skorinka; La Paloma, Yradier; The Thunderer, Sousa; Hymn-More Holiness Give
Me; All Hail! O. Davidson, Maxwell; Climb Up Ye Chillun, Spiritual; Rhythmoods, Yoder; O Davidson, Shields-Pfohl.

Davidson’s chapter of Sigma Upsilon, Honorary Literary Fraternity, will meet at the home of Dr. W. P. Cumming Tuesday night.
The meeting will feature an essay by Prof. H. T. Lilly, which he will deliver, followed by a short story
by Neal Scott, and a one-act play by members of the fraternity. At their meeting last week, Dr. Hood read
a paper on the life of Rosscommon, a forerunner of the famous English poet, Alexander Pope. Dr. Hood stated that
this paper, which he wrote during his days at college, was the first piece of extensive research work he ever
did.In his plays require a great deal of Trumpet Trio mh eae CT (TOR Ey ln Nn Withers, read at
the the bitsingss world; but he brought interesting work on the part of the sound effect department of the three
freshmen of the symphony band. They are: Robert Streetman, Craig Schmidt, and John Roth. C. R. Harding, professor of Greek,
entered his 50th year as a professor. Sam Spencer delivered a paper describing an amusing incident that occurred on the
Davidson campus in the years gone by. It will be the last of the regular vesper services before the Christmas
holidays, the musical Christmas program being scheduled for next Saturday night.

The Theatre program has been more convenient to pick up here on the campus. At this meeting, several new members
of the fraternity were initiated. These included: Edgar Watson, Lawson Withers, Dan Means, and Dave McLean. Dr. Rene We- ment
of the college introduced the speaker as one of a long line of Davidson family. The glee club choir in
Prague, Czechoslovakia in 1920, and for the last fourteen years, they have been traveling all over the world.

Captain Thad Brock broke loose for a spectacular 102-yard run to lead the Red and Black to a 13-12 victory
over Duke. Vismie Williamson has accepted a bid to Sigma Upsilon and will be initiated at a special ceremony at
the next meeting.

Davidson's Unity Church Men’s Bible Class won the Attendance Banner for North Mecklenburg during the past twelve months and was
awarded the banner last Sunday afternoon at the Presbyterian Church in Cornelius. This banner, which is awarded each year on
the percentage basis for the Men’s Classes of the unit churches of North Mecklenburg, was presented to the Class of
the First Presbyterian Church of Davidson.

The first of a series of sermons leading up to “Decision Day” was preached Sunday morning when Sidney Crane addressed
the congregation on “Giving Self to Christ.” Rodman Williams will deliver the second of this series of sermons Sunday night
when he will speak on “Giving Service to Christ.” He will conclude the series with his sermon on “Giving Substance
to Christ” the following Sunday.

CHARLOTTE, N.C. DAVIDSON STUDENTS are ALWAYS WELCOME at THE WOODEN BOWL Delicious Short Orders Just Off Tryon at Fourth.

THE CHRISTMAS SEASON You Are Always Welcome at PAUL & CRYMES ALL SPORTING GOODS JIM’S TAVERN 415 S. Tryon St.
Charlotte, N.C. Just North of Davidson On Statesville Highway.

ENJOY GOOD MEALS at The Little Pep Sandwich Shop and Delmonico’s Grill.

M.H. GOODRUM COMPANY Davidson, N.C. 114 West Sixth Street.

Single and Double Breasted! Step out in one of these tuxedos during the holiday season. Single and double-breasted styles. They
are shown in midnight blue only.

Men’s Shop Street Floor.

Full Dress SUITS $50.00 Formal dress suits must fit right for correct appearance. Your wardrobe isn’t complete unless you possess
one of these.

FORMAL ACCESSORIES $2.50 and $3.00 Single and double-breasted styles. They are shown in midnight blue only.

Dress Shirts Stud Sets Dress Collars White Black Tuxedo Vests Dress Shirts Without Collars Dress Shirts, Collar Attached Black Calf
Dress Shoes.

CHARLOTTE, N.C. “The Friendly Store in a Friendly City”
