**Corrected OCR Text:**

Sideline Delights Davidson Sports Footballers Rest Saturday; Duke Leads Dorm Ball Thurs., Oct. 19, 1939 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Four

By ANDY DALE

Coming Through - Seaman Lanky End

With a rest on this weekend, the Cats once again gird themselves on Oct. 28 to meet the Furman Purple Hurricane here in a game that promises to show Davidson followers a Furman team which will be out to avenge the one-point licking Davidson handed them last season at Greenville. The Hurricane has risen to heights this season in beating some of its rivals to date, losing to Army only after a hard fight, and indicating that for the Cats to win, they will have to play heads-up ball.

Beesters Open Against Indians; Partial Schedule Announced

Blouin Bucks Over Guard For Lone Marker; Fumbles Mar First Quarter; Cat Threats Fail as Birds Tighten Defense Near Goal

After a week of intensive practice, Davidson's football team at Salisbury today will face the Beesters in the feature of the County Fair. While handicapped by lack of practice on the same plays, the Beesters are set for the Indians. During the past weeks, the squad has been employed in using opponents’ plays against the varsity, and that squad is prepped for the Saturday game.

Jim “Footsie” Cowan stands six-four and shows his basketball ability on pass “snagging.” Troubled with a back injury at present, Footsie is counted on to furnish plenty of threat from his flank position. He is one of Davidson’s few three-letter men.

The tide was turned early in the final stanza when Nowak, Gamecock end, downed a punt of the Cat eleven on the one-yard line and brought Spencer’s punt back to the 28, and the “Gamecocks” quickly ripped off two first downs to the Davidson one, where the Cats braced and forced Henson to try a field goal on fourth down. The placement was blocked and Davidson took the ball on the 28.

Duke’s Blue Devils lost to Pittsburgh last Saturday, and already they boast conference wins over Citadel, Wake Forest, and North Carolina. Dormitory’s fast aggregation marched through all others to date, and with a win in their one remaining game will clinch the touch title. Dormitory ball has proven to be much more popular than class ball and, in our opinion, has taken its place alongside other intramural rivalries, which, while friendly off the field, have become hot as a firecracker during games. With seven dorm teams playing a round-robin tourney this year, more boys have taken part in the games, and that is what they are really for. Of course, it’s fine.

In the first cross-country meet of the season, Duke's harriers opened with a win.‘To have a cup the meet opened the season for Ling and Tall Van ma A has rough the Wingate forward wall. Enson to Blouin, took the ball to held Southwestern to a 6-6 tie at or plaque as a trophy, but the real thing behind it is getting students both teams, and was held over the charge of the snapper-back duties. However, a pass completed to the Cat Zawhere Blouin bucked it Memphis last Saturday. Out for exercises, Davidson has a sound athletic policy as regards Davidson four-mile course with Garrou as his understudy Washburn on the three set the [Continued on Page Six] [Continued on Page Six] freshmen and varsity athletics, and through intramurals has taken Schedule stage for Frederick's tally care of the other large percentage of students, who will not or can Bret, the Blue Devils ace, led the schedule to date includes time and again during the remainder of the half the Wingates repulsed threats, unable to get their own offensive guns open until the beginning of the second semester. Stebbins and Griffith alternated in carrying the ball to the Davidson two on a 75-yard drive, and from there Stebbins bucked over for the score. The Davidsons advanced sixty yards on a cleverly mixed aerial and running attack and Frederick's hit the pay dirt late in the period. Wingate immediately opened an aerial barrage which was effective until an intercession by the Kittens stilled the threat. The Freshmen go into their second game tomorrow afternoon with J. C. as slight favorites.

Standings
Duke 5 0
Watts 4 2
East 2 2
Georgia 1 4
Rumple 1 5

With daily workouts the order of the day, the harriers are set for a tough lineup of opposing teams, listing among them leaders in the conference. The loss of Woodward and Walker, Davidson running twins of last year, has hurt the team considerably, but with several new men and sophomores out for the squad, Coach Pete Whittle’s team is looking up.

Freshmen cross-country drills continued last week under Coach Gammon, as cake race winners and worked on in preparation for meets.

Duke’s unbeaten, untied, unscored-on intramural team leads the leaders in the inter-dormitory competition to date, closely followed by West. In a game on Monday, the 16th, West conquered Watts by the score of 6-0. This game was a battle all the way as Watts was able to register 5 first downs, but were unable to score. Shore and Hogg stood out for West, while Yarborough and Thomas starred for the losers.

Duke beat Rumple in the other game on Monday by a score of 6-0. The lone touchdown was scored on an odd play. Crichton threw a long pass over the goal; Marvin Sink called for the ball, but in jumping to catch it, the ball bounced from his arms and fell into the waiting arms of Joe Shelton, who was down under the play, for a touchdown. Shelton and Crichton did most of the passing for Duke.

West Continues Wins
On last Thursday, October 12th, West defeated East, 24-6. Hogg was the passing star for West, with Shore and McReynolds doing most of the receiving. Hogg made a pass to George Wright for one of West's touchdowns. East’s lone touchdown was scored on a pass intercepted by Holt Barnwell, who scampered 20 yards for the marker.

Meet U.N.C. Saturday
Saturday the harriers take on the crack Carolina outfit at Chapel Hill. N. C. will be favored as a result of their Southern Conference and Big Five last year. The schedule for the season includes games with Lees-McRae in the near future, and a return game with Catawba here. Appalachian is tentatively scheduled for later in the season. According to the coaches, if the team shows up well in today’s game, more later games will be scheduled. Little is known of the Catawba B-team, but drills throughout the week have aided the squad in preparation for meets.

We hope the bowling league will be re-established this winter to provide exercise for many of those who otherwise would not get it. But the small gym, and its one basketball court, is still a major problem, since there is only one gym which has to be used by both the freshmen and varsity basketball teams, plus intramural teams. Until Davidson gets a newer and bigger gym, this lack of facilities will hamper activities during the winter, especially when rain or snow curtail all out-of-door games.

J. O. JONES’ “Club Tails”
TO BE SURE ... Tail Coats are the accepted formal attire, and tail coats so capably styled—so beautifully draped—so subtly poised—Ideal for the Davidson man.

THACKERS, Inc.
221 South Tryon Street
Charlotte, N.C.

DAVIDSON STUDENTS FULL OF LIFE
Are Always Welcome
S & S Cafeteria
Charlotte, N.C.

PRIVATE DINING ROOMS FOR FRATERNITY BANQUETS
Phone 5490 for Reservation
Moore’s Parking Lot
114 West Sixth Street
Charlotte, N.C.