Thurs., Dec. 14, 1939 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Three

Question of the Week

In years past, there has been some discontent among students as to the selection of a suitable cause for the “gift fund.” This year the negro mill village will be the recipient of the gift. What do you think of this selection?

Tom Perrin, Senior: I think the idea of using the Annual Christmas Gift Fund for the benefit of the underprivileged in our own community is an extremely good one. And I believe the popularity of the idea will be shown in a larger contribution than usual. It has always seemed to me that the giving to China, the Congo, Korea, and other out-of-the-way places was pretty perfunctory—that everybody agreed these projects were worthy enough, but no number of chapel talks or photographs could keep the objects of our gifts from being unreal and indefinite to a great many of us. Possibly—just possibly—the recipients will enjoy the giving more, too. I believe I'd rather get a present from someone I know than from some prosperous but disinterested person on the other side of the globe.

Tom Galbreath, Junior: This gift fund is the answer to a long felt need in the community. In my opinion, this should be made a “living endowment” for the next few years, until a complete set-up for the negroes has been established. In this way, we can carry out a complete character building program, while providing for the crying need of recreational as well as spiritual development. Unless we support this project, the good work already started among the negroes will have been lost.

W. C. Plunkett, Sophomore: Indeed, I fully favor this plan for the use of our gift fund money. We all give more liberally when we can see and feel its results. Furthermore, this plan seems more non-denominational than previous ones and we non-Presbyterians don't feel that we are deserting our own churches so much. It seems to me wise to continue this project. Perhaps additions and a growing fund can make this community center a vital thing in the lives of our colored neighbors.

Bill McLauchlin, Jr., Sophomore: It is my sincere hope that this project wins the admiration and support of every Davidson student. I can think of no more appropriate object than one which will, above all, help the negro in his uphill fight for education and the chance to prove what he really is. This will also result in a better and more cooperative attitude between the races. I therefore hope and trust that my fellow students will first consider this fine opportunity for a real “Good Turn”—and then contribute accordingly.

Phil Edwards, Senior: This plan appeals to me more than any other in the past years. Here we can see what our donations are going to, and the real good that is derived from them. With so much need right under our noses, it only seems fitting that such a project as this should receive priority. Since the majority of the help that these people receive does come from the townspeople, it is only fair that the students should be given a chance to help such a worthy cause. After all, charity should begin at home.

Bob Elder, Sophomore: I think that the YMCA has found an excellent cause to donate the Christmas Gift Fund to this year. The building of a community center and the grading of an athletic field for the negroes of Davidson ought to appeal to those who would rather have their money spent on something where they can see the results.

David Vosburg, Sophomore: In my opinion, the YMCA has begun a gift drive that will show the students where and how the money is being used. Unlike the gifts of former years, we will be able to determine the benefits derived from this project. Surely the students of Davidson College should back this movement and give to those less fortunately situated. I sincerely believe that each student will give open-heartedly for such a cause. A little help by us will be a great help toward our community.

Davidson Men Attend Rally In Charlotte

Dr. Donald W. Richardson Discusses Coming Presbyterian Crusade

Several students attended a rally in Charlotte Tuesday, at which time plans were formulated for the coming Presbyterian evangelistic Crusade. A devotional service was led by Dr. A. A. Little, and talks were given by Rev. J. A. Jones, and Dr. Donald W. Richardson. The meeting was held at the Second Presbyterian Church.

At the last General Assembly of the Southern Presbyterian Church, of which Dr. Donald W. Richardson, Davidson alumnus and professor at Union Theological Seminary, was chairman, the Crusade on Evangelism was inaugurated.

Richardson's Report

Dr. Richardson's report on evangelism was so stirring that ministers and laymen all over the assembly meeting rose, moved with admiration and emotion. Not only was the report approved but a fund of $10,000 to further the movement was called on from the assembly. The goal was reached in a few minutes, so impressed with the worth of the cause were those attending the meeting.

Plans were made for going forward with the Crusade on Evangelism throughout the Southern Presbyterian Church beginning January first and extending through March. Within that time it is expected that each of the Presbyterian churches in the South will hold one evangelistic meeting extending throughout a week. District meetings are now being held for making all the plans for these evangelistic weeks. A recent meeting was held at Barium Springs which was largely attended by both ministers and laymen. It was characterized by great enthusiasm and a deep spiritual note.

Musical Frat Has Initiation

Tuesday night, December 5th, the Beta Gamma Phi, Honorary Musical Fraternity, initiated six men at the Eumenean Hall. Those initiated were Charles Martin, Fred Chetwood, Charles Iseley, Vick Hollis, Bill Hamilton, and Pat Hollifield. The basis of membership requires that students have a genuine interest in music and that they have done something to further the appreciation of music on the Davidson campus. It is not necessary that members be in any of the musical organizations. The active chapter can have an enrollment of not less than fifteen men and not more than twenty-five.

The initiation was very impressive, having been a candle-light ceremony. After the induction, a feed was held in honor of the new members. Beta Gamma Phi is a local fraternity at present, but Harper Beall, president, announces that plans are going forward to make a petition for a Davidson branch of Phi Mu Alpha, the largest honorary musical fraternity in the country. The principles of Beta Gamma Phi were modeled after those of Phi Mu Alpha.

Journey's End

The Red and Black Masquers, honorary dramatic fraternity, presented last night in Chambers auditorium a war play, “Journey's End” by R. C. Sheriff. Shown here is the cast of the play indulging in their favorite sport of cockroach racing. The rotund doughboy prodding his favorite bug on to victory is Jack Holland. Seated left to right are: Dave Colvin, Sam Spencer, Tom Harnsberger, Jack Holland, and Ed. Hay. Standing are Dan Gilliam, Rea Tenney, and Bob Kellogg. This play was directed by Ken McIntyre, president of the Red and Black Masquers and Prof. E. J. Erwin.

Greeks Celebrate Yuletide Season

Fraternities Give Various Entertainments Before Leaving the Campus

Santa Claus was long supposed to be of Dutch origin, but from the number of Christmas parties staged here this year by Davidson fraternities, the jolly old man seems to take part in Greek mythology also.

The nine Greek-letter groups celebrated the season with various forms of entertainment. Taking the spotlight were the...

Conrad Smith Gets Position At Baltimore

Local People Recall Votes

Next year’s presidential election reminds many of Davidson’s population of the highly contested election of mayor of some years ago. At that time, students nominated their own candidate for mayor.

Conrad Frederick Smith, former Davidson alumnus and publicity secretary, has...Accepted a position as Kappa Sigma-Kappa Alpha dance tions. Publicity director at the University of Baltimore in Baltimore. This particular election was hot with competition. The race was between one candidate set up by the faculty and others people from the east side of town. But west of the railroad, there was a second entrant for the office. This candidate was popular in the industrial group and had much impetus behind his two fists. (Continued on Page Six)

ESSEX IN TECHNICOLOR

New York City and throughout the middle west, also serving as columnist for the Charlotte Observer. In November, the former Davidson writer presented the college with a portrait, "The Wildcat Spirit," to be hung in the Alumni Gymnasium. The picture shows a football player in the Davidson uniform sidestepping down the gridiron.

TOWER OF LONDON

Marion Davis Coe extends to you a cordial greeting for a most enjoyable holiday season. Marion Davis Company, 438 South Tryon Street.

Best Wishes For A Merry Christmas From Southern 5 & 10c Store

Basil Rathbone, Boris Karloff, and a host of other favorites. Imperial Theatre

Printing is our business. Charlotte, N.C. Drink a quart of milk a day. Drink pasteurized milk. It’s safe. Mooresville Creamery, Mooresville, N.C.

A complete printing service as near as your telephone. For a representative, dial 3-5727. Printers of The Davidsonian. Standard Printing Company, established 1907, Charlotte, N.C.

Always ask for S & P Peanut Butter Sandwiches, Salted Peanuts, Candy. Manufactured by Swinson Food Products, Charlotte, N.C.

Garland Court

Following the banquet was a dance with the active chapters of both fraternities and their Charlotte alumni in attendance. Music was furnished by the Southerners.

S.A.E. Banquet

Sigma Alpha Epsilon also launched their celebrations with a banquet. Alumni and guests were present. Several faculty members also attended. Music for the dance, which followed the meal, was played by Gibbon Todd and his orchestra.

Other fraternities had varied social functions on the campus. Saturday night, Beta Theta Pi held its annual Christmas party, given by the pledges for the brothers. Beta pledges presented a variety show.

Symphony Orchestra Will Be Featured On Program For Charity

Journalism Is Set Forth In Delta Epsilon

Modifications Made In Constitution of Old Journalism Club

Delta Epsilon, Davidson's journalistic fraternity, formerly the Journalism Club, held its first meeting since the introduction of its new name at the Pi Kappa Phi house on December 8. A short business meeting was first held at which time a few modifications were made in the constitution. The program was then turned over to Jack Abernathy, editor of "Scripts and Pranks," who discussed the editing and functions of a magazine, bringing in all phases. This was followed by a discussion.

Election of Members

The first meeting after the Christmas vacation will be held Friday when there will be an election of new members. These comprise men coming from the two upper classes who have excelled in journalism. This honorary fraternity originated as the Journalism Club, founded by Fred Smith, former Alumni Director and Publicity Secretary of Davidson. This year it was changed to an honorary Greek fraternity, adopting the name Delta Epsilon and recognizing excellence in journalistic activities.

NYA Month Will Not End Until January 3

Combined Queens-Davidson Orchestra Will Be Directed By Prof. Pfohl

Observer Fresh Air Camp To Get Donations

The Queens-Davidson symphony orchestra, under the direction of James Christian Pfohl, head of Davidson’s music department, will be featured in a concert at the Carolina Theatre in Charlotte at 3 o’clock, Sunday afternoon, December 17. The program is sponsored by the Charlotte Observer for the benefit of the Observer Fresh Air Camps. A night program will also be shown at 9:30 o’clock with a feature picture and short subjects. No admission is to be charged, but a free-will offering for the benefit of the camps will be taken both times. The camps operate each summer for the benefit of underprivileged children of the city. Most of the members of the orchestra are staying over two days in order to play in the concert. Davidson musicians will combine with the Queens orchestra to form one larger organization as in previous concerts this year.

Several Soloists

Taking solo parts in the concert will be James McClendon, organist at the Myers Park Methodist Church; James Weber, violinist; Frances Riddle, contralto; Elizabeth Cloninger, harpist; Mrs. D. M. McSpadden, soprano; Earle Copes, pianist; and W. P. Babcock, Thane McDonald, and Director Pfohl, all of the Davidson music department. The program follows: Organ music by James McClendon; Overture to Mozart's "Magic Flute"; violin solo, the Allegro from the D Major Sonata by Mozart, played by James Weber with Earle Copes accompanying on the piano; "Pracludium" by Jarnefelt; "Entrance of the Little Fauns" by Pierne; and a suite of waltzes by Brahms.

Contralto Rendition

Frances Riddle, contralto, will then give a rendition of "Black Roses" by Sibelius. Following her solo will come Sibelius’ "Valse Triste."

December's N.Y.A. month will not end until January 3, announced Fleagle yesterday. All work done between December 4 and December 15 should be reported before leaving for the holiday recess, he emphasized. Since this is a very short month, it is not necessary to work the full twenty-five hour assignment. Any amount of work done will be accepted.

The crowd's always congenial... Christmas! Greyhound Terminal, White Drug Co. Phone 2111

Improve your standing as a first-class Santa Claus this year. Chances are you can check off a large part of your Christmas list with the money you save at Greyhound’s low fares for your trip home. Super-Coaches are warm and comfortable in any weather—and the crowd's always congenial. Get into the holiday spirit—get aboard a Greyhound Super-Coach—get going! Merry Christmas with the money you'll save traveling home by Greyhound.

Sample Round-Trip Fares:
Winston-Salem $1.65
Greensboro $2.70
Richmond, Va. $6.75
Roanoke, Va. $4.80
Columbia, S.C. $3.10
Greenville, S.C. $3.15
Spartanburg, S.C. $2.45
Raleigh $5.25
Atlanta, Ga. $6.50
Chattanooga, Tenn. $7.60

Texaco Gas and Oil from The Grill. We are always ready to serve you. Good food.