Davidsonian Wins Rating

Z528 ALENDA LuxX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Che Mavbidsonian

Ramsey Is Frosh Advisor

VOL. XXVI DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., WEDNESDAY, APRIL 26, 1939 No. 26

New Pan Hellenics Elect Paul Marion Leader of Council

Jim Anderson and Gales McClintock Are Chosen as Other Officers

PITTMAN IS OLD HEAD

Mullen, Liipfert, and Sloan Also Retiring

The Pan-Hellenic council for the scholastic year 1939-1940 elected their officers at a called meeting Monday morning, April 24. The
officers elected were: president, Paul Marion; secretary, Jim Anderson; treasurer, Gales McClintock. A vice president was not elected. These men
will replace Ray Pittman, president; Tom Mullen, vice president; Gene Liipfert, secretary; Perry Sloan, treasurer.

On the evening of April 24, the new council held its first formal meeting in the parlor of Watts dormitory.
President-elect Paul Marion presided and the constitution was read. The purpose of the meeting was to organize for the coming
year. The new council is composed of the following representatives of the social fraternities: Phi Gamma Delta, Jack Holland; Sigma
Alpha Epsilon, George Ficklen; Kappa Sigma, Bill Ross; Kappa Alpha, Paul Marion; Phi Kappa Phi, Harry Hendrick; Pi Kappa Alpha,
Jim Anderson; Sigma Phi Epsilon, Phil Edwards; Beta Theta Pi, Gales McClintock; Phi Delta Theta, Charlie Luther.

According to their constitution, the purpose of the Pan-Hellenic council is to advance the interests of Davidson College, to promote
the general interests and welfare of these associated fraternities as a body, and to ensure the cooperation between them in
their relation with the faculty, the student body, and the public in general.

Glee Club’s Series End

McDonald Directs Final Concert Tonight

Directed by Prof. Thane McDonald, Davidson’s glee club will close its 1938-39 season tonight with a final concert in Chambers
Auditorium. Students and holders of season tickets will be admitted free to this program which is scheduled to begin at
7:30 P.M. In addition to the two groups of sacred and secular numbers to be sung by the 29-voice organization,
the audience will also hear several selections by the college quartet and a group of piano solos by Don Davidson.
Davidson, who has been accompanist for the glee club during the past two years, will graduate this June.

Program

Opening with a sacred group, the glee club will sing: “Adoramus Te,” Palestrina; “With Heart Uplifted,” Schvedoff; “The Creation,” Richter;
and “Blow, Trumpets, Blow,” James. This will be followed by the piano solos. The quartet, composed of James Ballard, John
Wilson, Harper Beall, and Stuart Oglesby, will then sing Candlyn’s “In Nicotina” and the traditional college song “Nut Brown Maiden.”

Second Group

The glee club’s second group will include five secular pieces: the spiritual “Steal Away;” “Down by the Old Bayou,” Bennett;
“A Spirit Flower,” Campbell-Tipton; “The Vagabonds,” Thomas; and “Olaf Trygvason,” Grieg, with Harper Beall as soloist. The concert will end
with “O Davidson.”

During the past year, this organization has presented programs at Winston-Salem, Converse College, Wilmington, Red Springs, Maxton, Troy, and Albemarle.

Honored

Dick Vowles, son of Dr. and Mrs. Guy R. Vowles of Davidson, and last year’s editor-in-chief of the Davidsonian, has
been awarded a fellowship to the University of Stockholm in Sweden, where he will do research work in enzymes. At
present, Vowles is at the University of North Carolina.

Scholarship Is Awarded To Alumnus

Dick Vowles, Graduate in 1938, Will Attend University of Stockholm

Dick Vowles, editor-in-chief of the Davidsonian last year, was recently honored by being awarded a fellowship to Sweden by the
American-Scandinavian Foundation. This fellowship is awarded annually to a graduate student in chemistry. He will work in the Biochemical Institute
of the University of Stockholm under Hans von Euler, a Nobel Prize winner. His work will be research in enzymes.
The award carries with it a stipend of $1,000.

Graduate Assistant

At present, Vowles is a graduate assistant in the Department of Chemistry at the University of North Carolina. He will
return to the University to continue graduate work in 1940-41, after his year in Sweden. Before the fellowship award was
announced, he had already been re-appointed assistant for next year. In Chapel Hill, he was a member of [Continued on
Page Six]

Cadets Taken Into National Military Frat

Scabbard and Blades Taps 15 at Special Ceremony Monday

At a special parade Monday afternoon, the Davidson chapter of Scabbard and Blades, national honorary military fraternity, had its annual
“Tap Day,” taking in 15 rising Seniors as new members of its order for next year. Men officially invited to
join by Sam Hemphill and Wesley Coghill, representatives of the order, were: H. J. Bolin, D. C. Colvin, J. C.
Cooper, W. C. Fitzgerald, T. A. Hackney, T. L. Harnsberger, C. B. Harrison, R. C. Kellog, C. M. Mashburn, S.
R. Oglesby, T. S. Sitterson, S. R. Spencer, R. C. Tenney, and J. N. Thomas.

Mode of Acceptance

These men accepted the invitation by kneeling on their right knee and being tapped by Coghill on both shoulders. They
were chosen because of their leadership and ability in military circles and for their general interest in military affairs. Personal
efficiency of the man is also taken greatly into consideration, as shown in informal initiation.

Informal initiation of the new men began Tuesday morning at 4:30, when they had to begin guard duty, clad in
their service dungarees. During the initiation, which lasted until this morning, various forms of military sufferings were presented to the
initiates. The informal part of the initiation was supposed to be a burlesque of a typical day in the summer
camp at Fort McClelland, in Anderson, Ala., where the men will see some real military life during the first six
weeks of this summer. They did guard duty, sham battle, hiking, calisthenics, and close order drill.

At a sunrise recognition service this morning, the initiation ceased and the men were formally taken into the Davidson chapter
of Scabbard and Blade.

New Students Sign

Registration of freshmen for next year is progressing rapidly. Although slightly behind the pace set last year, registrations of new
students are coming in daily. On April 15, the registration of freshmen in the class of '43 had reached a
total of 126 men. On this date last year, about 140 students had enrolled. Latest figures are not available, but
it is estimated that about 145 men have registered at this time.

In spite of the slight decline in registration, those who expect to enter Davidson next year should send in their
applications at once as the maximum is usually reached by the middle of June.

ROTC Competitive Drill Will Determine Honors

‘Teeny’ Lafferty to Be Among Judges of Rating

The annual R.O.T.C. competitive drill will be held Friday, April 28, at 3:00 in Richardson Field. This competitive drill will
be judged by Col. W. A. McCulloch, Col. R. C. Williams, and Martin L. “Teeny” Lafferty, second lieutenant in the
U.S. Reserve Army. Davidson students are particularly interested in the return of “Teeny” Lafferty to the Davidson campus. Lafferty, who
graduated only last year, was outstanding as a Davidson athlete, president of the student body, and commander of the R.O.T.C.
battalion. Since his graduation, he has been rapidly promoted in the Reserve Army. Col. W. A. McCulloch of Charlotte is
in charge of National Guard instruction in that city. Col. R. C. Williams is also of Charlotte and serves in
the U.S. Corps of Engineers.

Trophies to Be Awarded

The competitive drill is held each year for the purpose of determining the most proficient company and the most proficient
platoon of the unit as a result of close order drill training. The P.M.S. & T. will award a large
silver cup to the winning company commander, and Scabbard and Blade, military fraternity, will donate a silver cup to the
winning platoon leader. The cups will be appropriately engraved and will become the permanent property of the winners.

Method of Competition

Each company will choose a platoon to represent them in the competitive drill. These platoons will carry out all such
orders on the drill field as commanded by the reviewing officers. After this, each company will drill as a unit.
Then the whole battalion will be stationed before the reviewing stand, and the pennant will be presented to the winning
company.

Successful

Bill Marquess, editor-in-chief of the Davidsonian, piloted the paper through a very successful year to the first class honor rating
of the Associated Collegiate Press of the National Scholarship Press Association. Marquess has now turned over his position as editor
to Tony Casali.

Davidsonian Is Awarded High Honor

Rating of ‘Excellent’ Is Accorded by the National Collegiate Press

Word has been received recently from the National Collegiate Press that this year’s Davidsonian, published under the direction of Bill
Marquess, editor, and John Latimer, business manager, has been awarded a first class honor rating. This means that the Davidsonian
had an “excellent” rating according to the scale established by the association. This rating is indeed high with respect to
the scale of the association. It is next to the All-American rating, which was awarded to the paper last year.
This rating was accompanied by a list of the subjects that the Davidsonian was graded on. Such factors as coverage
of news sources,Balance of make-up, the editorials, use of cuts, feature stories, and heads were the things that this rating
was based on. A total of 590 points was earned out of a possible 1,000. Editor Bill Marquess is from
Decatur, Ga., and is a member of Phi Delta Theta social fraternity, while Business Manager John Latimer is a member
of Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity and is from Washington, D.C.

Grads To Get April Journal
Latest Alumni Magazine Cover Shows New Dorm

Highlighting the April Alumni Journal, which appeared last Monday, is an architect’s drawing of the new dormitory on the cover.
Among the features included are suggestions for an alumni program by Dr. W. L. Lingle, “Nazi Agent — Johanna Hofmann,”
“Was It Worthwhile” by Field Horine, “Some Thoughts on Physical Education,” and the regular Davidson department “With Alumni Everywhere.” Of
special interest to older alumni is a description of the present-day town of Davidson with representative photographs of the town.
The narrative, “Vagabondage in Europe,” is continued in this issue.

Sports Resume Included

Short sports resumes of Varsity and Freshman results in basketball, wrestling, tennis, and cross-country form a big part of the
contents. From The Davidsonian come two articles—“Recent Headlines from The Davidsonian” and a summary of the results of “Question of
the Week.” A group picture of 11 seniors is presented with the question [Continued on Page Six]

News Meet To Be Held May 4, 5, 6
Davidson Men to Attend Annual Press Convention in Greensboro

Representatives of the three Davidson College publications are planning to attend the annual convention of the North Carolina Collegiate Press
Association in Greensboro on May 4, 5, and 6.

New Advisor

Woman's College and Greensboro College will be co-hosts of the conclave, which is expected to be the largest in the
history of the organization. The O'Henry Hotel will be headquarters for the meeting. The program is to include many interesting
events. Heading the list of attractions is an address by Charles Driscoll, a very outstanding columnist of today who succeeded
O. O. McIntyre as writer of the popular column, “New York Day by Day.” Driscoll is a popular speaker and
one who is in a position to give much helpful advice along journalistic lines.

Contests

As usual, there will be contests between the newspapers, annuals, and magazines which are members of the association. These include
six divisions, one each for papers, magazines, and annuals in colleges of more than a thousand students and one in
each of these classes for colleges of less than a thousand enrollment. Last year the Scripts ’n Pranks, Quips and
Cranks, and the Davidsonian all placed in the competition for schools of less than a thousand. [Continued on Page Six]

Quartet to Appear

Playing works of Mozart, Beethoven, Haydn, and Schumann, the Raleigh String Quartet will be presented in concert by the Davidson
music department Tuesday evening, May 8, in Chambers Auditorium. This quartet, considered by critics to be the finest organization of
its kind in North Carolina, is composed of music professors from the faculties of several Raleigh colleges. Members include: Edgar
Alden, first violin; Dorothy Alden, second violin; Christian D. Kutschinski, viola; and Katherine Eide, cello. The concert will begin at
8:15. This program is being sponsored by the music department.

Davidson

On a fourth ballot Tuesday morning cast by the senior class, Bob Ramsey was elected freshman advisor for the class
of 1943. Ramsey defeated Jack Abernathy of Gastonia, N.C. A group of seven men had been cut down by three
votings.

Frosh Vote For Marsh To Be Head
Caldwell and Wooten Are Also Elected for Next Year by Freshmen

George Marsh, Frank Caldwell, and Walter Wooten will serve as officers for next year’s sophomore class, having been elected on
the final ballots cast last week by members of the present freshman class. Marsh, of High Point, defeated Ed Lucas
for the post of president by a count of 99 to 69. Frank Caldwell was elected vice president in the
second ballot over Ralph Williams, while Bobby Wooten nosed out Carter for secretary-treasurer.

Bob Ramsey Elected To Freshman Advisor Post; Abernathy Is Runner-Up
Defeats Seven Other Candidates for Important Position

WILL SUCCEED GAW
Wins Out in Last Ballot by 73-53 Count

Bob Ramsey of the rising senior class was elected to be freshman advisor next year, succeeding Warren Gaw, who served
in that capacity this year. Ramsey defeated Jack Abernathy on the final ballot by a 73-53 vote. These two men
had reached the finals after two ballots had eliminated all other candidates except Ramsey, Abernathy, and Dave Sprunt. Sprunt was
eliminated on the third ballot. Abernathy had led the race throughout the balloting by several votes, but a last-minute splurge
by Ramsey netted him the office. Abernathy, Ramsey, Dave Sprunt, Julian Lokey, Tommy Harnsberger, Buck Powell, and Dick Gammon comprised
the original ballot for the post. Sprunt, Gammon, and Ramsey were nominated by a committee, while the other four were
named from the floor. The first ballot left four men in the running: Abernathy, Ramsey, Sprunt, and Lokey. In the
second ballot, Lokey was eliminated as Abernathy polled 33 votes, Sprunt 30, and Ramsey 29. In the third ballot, the
count was Abernathy 46, Ramsey 44, and Sprunt 30. The new freshman advisor will succeed Warren Gaw of Greensboro, who
held the office last year. His principal duties will occur during next year's orientation week, at which time he and
a staff of assistants will acquaint the incoming freshman class with the Davidson campus. Ramsey is a member of the
Philanthropic Literary Society and Beta Theta Pi social fraternity. He is also a debater and on the magazine staff.

Committee To Re-Form

In the original ballot for president, the nominating committee had named Lucas, Marsh, Gene Shannon, and Ralph Stair. This list
was increased by the following nominations from the floor: Bill Sprunt, Yarborough, and Albert Winn. Caldwell, Williams, Arch Taylor, and
Bill Watt were the committee’s choice for vice president, while Carter, Jim Kerr, Bill Le- [Continued on Page Six]

Sam Webb Receives Reward for German Work

At a recent meeting on Monday night at the home of Dr. Caleb Richard Harding, Delta Phi Alpha elected new
officers for the coming year. The newly-elected officers are Bob Doty, president; B. L. Johnson, vice president; and W. P.
Boyle, secretary-treasurer. Delta Phi Alpha is the honorary German society, and a student must have done good work in German
for at least three semesters before he may become a member. Sam Webb, secretary of the Fraternity Council and retiring
president of Delta Phi Alpha, was presented with a book, "Men, Myths, and Movements in German Literature," for his four
years of outstanding work in German. This book is but a symbol of the fraternity’s acknowledgement of the service that
Sam has rendered to them. At the roll call, each member was required to give a quotation in German. As
much as circumstances permit, German is used so as to cultivate the free flow of speech among the members and
a more intimate friendship as they are all striving for the mastery of the same subject. The retiring officers are:
Sam Webb, president; Bill Diehl, vice president; and Walter Kunz, secretary-treasurer. The newly-elected officers will take office at the next
meeting which will be held on Monday night, May 8. This will be the final meeting of the year and
members are urged to attend. After all business was dispensed with, the society entered into a short program of German
riddles. Refreshments were served by Dr. Harding.

Presidents of Classes Become Committeemen

After the completion of the present election period, five new men will replace the present student members of the Student-Faculty
Relations Committee. At present, the committee is composed of five students and three members of the faculty. The presidents of
the three upper classes, the freshman advisor, and the president of the Student Council are automatically members. The fifth member
is elected from the Student Council. Members of the committee are Winston Marsh, the freshman advisor, and the president of
the Student Council. The present faculty members, Dr. D. V. L., Dr. C. K. Brown, and Professor F. K. Fleagle,
will serve next year.

New Committee

New members of the committee will be Dick Kenyon, Taylor George, and the new freshman advisor. The fifth man representing
the Student Council has yet to be elected. This body has the duty to recommend plans to the faculty and
to the student body. They have no power to amend the constitution but rather to advertise and execute new movements.

Organization of Group

One of the five students to serve next year on the student committee will be elected chairman; this man is
selected by the entire eight committeemen. Fred Stair, representing the Student Council; Sam Newell of the Senior class; Gales McClintock
of the junior class; Hank Balhnson, president of the sophomore class; and Warren Gaw, freshman advisor; the three faculty members
are the present personnel of the committee.
