Music Festival Pronounced Success

Z528 ALENDA Che Davidsonian LUX UBI ORTA

Queens Lasses Again Invade Campus

LIBERTAS VOL. XXVI DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 1939 No. 17

Students Welcome Girls From Queens On Valentine’s Day
Witness Frosh Basketball Game With Danville School

DATE BUREAU FUNCTIONS
Choral Club Aids In Presenting Concert of “Martha”

Deadline March 1

“Rut” Miller, Editor of the Davidson College humor magazine, “Scripts ’n Pranks” stated recently that all material for the next
issue of the magazine must be in his hands by March 1. All contributors of short-stories, columns, and other works
are invited to present them for publication. Snapshots of candid campus life and other scenes of general interest are also
requested. This is the third of the four issues appearing during the school year.

The student body of Davidson College played host to a large number of girls from Queens-Chicora Tuesday afternoon and evening,
Feb. 14. The girls arrived in buses from Charlotte at approximately 3 o'clock in the afternoon. The Omicron Delta Kappa
date bureau paired off girls and boys in time for everybody to attend a basketball game between Davidson Freshmen and
Danville Military Institute, at 4 o’clock. The gymnasium was jammed full of boys and girls who yelled incessantly for both
teams throughout the game.

After the game, the girls and boys scattered over the campus until the supper hour. The girls were served supper
in the banquet hall in Chambers building at 6:30 after which the boys and girls entertained themselves as they liked.

The Queens-Chicora Glee Club aided the Davidson Music Department, with the University of Michigan Little Symphony Orchestra and solo artists
in the presentation of the opera “Martha.” With the ending of the opera another memorable Davidson-Queens day also ended. This
particular day was more successful than the usual according to members of Omicron Delta Kappa.

At Vespers Religious Cantata Opens First Annual Davidson Music Festival

An audience of more than 1,000 heard the Davidson festival chorus of 80 voices present Stainer’s religious cantata “The Daughter
of Jairus” at 8:15 o'clock. At this time the opera “Martha” was presented in Chambers Auditorium, beginning the first annual
Davidson music festival which ended Tuesday evening. Professor James Christian Pfohl, director of the Davidson music department, conducted the devotional
service.

As a prelude to the evening’s program, a special arrangement of brass choirs played antiphonally “Sonata Pian e Forte” by
Gabrielli. This late 16th century work is one of the earliest examples of religious orchestral music in existence. Dr. Richards
then read the story of the daughter of Jairus as found in the gospel of Mark.

Soloists for the cantata were Kathryn Swain of Salem College, soprano; Franklin Riker, voice professor of Davidson, tenor; and Harper
Beall of the junior class, baritone. These soloists and the chorus, made up of 80 voices selected from throughout Piedmont
North Carolina, sang the story of the illness and death of the daughter of Jairus, how the father begged Jesus
to heal her, and how Christ [Continued on Page Three]

Madras Group Attends Meet
Delegates From Missions Conference to Give Report in Charlotte

Next Tuesday and Wednesday, February 21st and 22nd, there will be held in Charlotte a Post-Madras Conference under the auspices
of the Charlotte-Mecklenburg Ministerial Association. These conferences will be held at the First Methodist Church and the Second Presbyterian Church.

Meeting with this conference will be a team from the International Conference held in Madras, India, during the Christmas season.
This was an international Christian conference and one of the first held in many years. Members of the visiting team
are as follows: Professor Baez Camargo, Mexico, Secretary of the World's Sunday School Association in Mexico; Dr. P. C. Hsu,
China, Professor in Shanghai University; Miss Ila Sircar, India, National Student Movement Secretary; Miss Sallie Lou MacKinnon, Foreign Secretary, Department
of Woman's Work, Board of Missions, M. E. Church, South; Dr. Edward D. Grant, Executive Secretary, Committee of Religious Education,
Presbyterian Church, U. S.; Mr. H. P. Myers of the Southern Methodist Board will be team captain. [Continued on Page
Three]

Alpha Phi Disbands

At a meeting on February 2, the members of Alpha Phi Epsilon, honorary forensic fraternity, agreed to discontinue the society
which for years has honored debaters. In so doing members felt that they would remove some of the duplication among
Davidson’s honorary fraternities. It was felt, too, that the literary societies and such organizations as the International Relations Club could
fulfill the original purpose of Alpha Phi Epsilon. Rather than to enter a section in the Annual, the fraternity agreed
to use funds in the treasury for some worthwhile cause in behalf of public speaking. The cause is to be
determined at some later date.

71 Rate Place On Honor List
Dean’s Rating Published By Mr. Hengeveld

Seventy-one names are included in the Dean’s List released this week by F. W. Hengeveld, Registrar of Davidson College. There
is a drop of three from the list of Seniors so honored at the beginning of the 1938-1939 session. The
Dean’s List is as follows: W. Abbott, O. V. Armstrong, C. F. Bailey, J. L. Ballard, R. Beach, Q. F.
Bell, R. B. Benfield, A. L. Bixler, E. C. Brewer, J. H. Calvin, H. W. Cauble, C. C. Clark, E.
L. Cloyd, C. W. Coghill, P. E. Conner, T. L. Conyers, P. M. Davidson, W. A. Diehl, J. C. Doster,
J. F. Doty, E. A. Erwin, W. B. McGaw, P. W. Hand, J. R. Harmon, S. W. Hemphill, G. Johnson,
G. G. Jones, W. C. Johnston, R. R. King, K. V. Lawson, E. T. Liipfert, S. H. McCall, K. McLean,
T. I. Magill, W. H. Marquess, J. A. Mawhinney, M. F. Morrow, T. W. Mullen, V. A. Myers, S. W.
Newell, H. R. Newland, W. J. Northcross, T. E. Page, W. A. Page, J. R. Patterson, M. M. [Continued on
Page Six]

First Debate Of Session On Tonight
Team Meets Wake Forest In Eumenean Hall at 7:30

Opening its 1938-'39 season of debating, a varsity negative team composed of Sherrard Rice and John Reisner will engage a
team from Wake Forest tonight at 7:30 in the Eumenean Literary Society Hall. Joe Calvin will be chairman of the
debate, which is to be non-decision, as will be the rest of the varsity debates for the year.

The affirmative team from Wake Forest is composed of two crack debaters. They are Gene Worrell, who won in the
extemporary and oratory divisions of the recent Strawberry Festival held in Winthrop, and Ralph Brummett, who was one of the
outstanding debaters there. The question to be used in all debates this year is: “Resolved: That the United States should
stop spending public funds, including credit, for the stimulation of business.”

Bob Ramsey, who is in charge of signing the contracts for the debaters, announced the schedules for the three varsity
teams for the rest of the year. The teams are divided according to their respective itineraries: a Southern, a Northern,
and a Northwestern trip. There will be a [Continued on Page Six]

Bible Teacher Gives Lecture

In a speech before the February meeting of the Charlotte-Mecklenburg Ministerial Association Monday, Dr. Kenneth Foreman talked on the qualities
of a minister. The title of Dr. Foreman’s talk was “A Pew Looks at the Pulpit.” In his discussion of
the qualities to be found in a minister, the Davidson professor declared the minister must have, and that he must
not be, the following: “I don’t want the preacher to apologize, to yell at me every minute, to be dogmatic
or merely professional. There is one prerequisite he must have, and that is to pull his punches, he is my
minister and should open one’s mind, heart, and Scriptures by illuminating and interpreting them; then make them more meaningful by
revealing God as real. The minister should offer intellectual stimulus; should open one’s heart and show one’s self by revealing
God as real.”

Issues Call To Job Seeking Seniors
Placement Bureau to Function Again This Year

Mr. Hengeveld, Registrar of Davidson College, said today that seniors desiring positions in teaching and business should fill out application
forms in his office if they want to get jobs through the Student Placement Bureau. He stated that representatives of
McClellan's Stores, Proctor and Gamble, the Schaeffer Pen Company, and numerous insurance companies had contacted him about prospective employees. His
statement is as follows: “Seniors interested in being placed in positions of business and teaching next year should come by
my office for application forms as soon as possible. Various business concerns are now arranging convenient times for conferences with
college graduates. It is necessary that the applications be on file if the placement work is to be of any
service to the students.”

He added that last year there was a greater demand for teachers than Davidson could supply. The Student Placement Bureau
has been organized only in the last few years for the benefit of Davidson men and has been rather successful
in placing them.

Maurice Hindus Will Speak Here Next Week
Noted Russian Lecturer Will Discuss Topic Of Czechoslovakia

Maurice Hindus, a native Russian, will speak here on the evening of Monday, February 20th, at 8 P.M. in Chambers
Auditorium. At the age of fourteen, he migrated to America and graduated from Cornell University with high honors. He continued
his studies at the Harvard Graduate School. Since leaving school, he has attained high distinction as a speaker and writer.
Mr. Hindus is a noted interpreter of Russia and is directing his skill to international affairs with reference to Czechoslovakia.
He will present the latest available information on the developments in world affairs.Depth to his observations and he possesses a
mind that grasps the historical significance of world events. In a single lecture, he is able to give listeners a
better understanding of conditions than can be obtained by reading many books or by listening to broadcasted accounts. In the
late summer of 1938, Mr. Hindus visited his native country, Czechoslovakia, for the first time since the Prague Revolution and
therefore has a keen interpretation of the developments in that nation. His topic for this night will be: "Czechoslovakia: Her
Glory and Her Grief."

Mawhinney Is Eu President

On Friday night, the Eu Society held a very important meeting at which they elected their officers for the coming
term: John Mawhinney will continue to be president; Bob Ramsey, vice-president; Edward Maxwell, secretary; and Sam Webb, treasurer.

The second part of the program was the presentation of two books. The first, "The Adams Family," goes into detail
about the life of John Quincy Adams and contrasts two brilliant Adams. This book was reviewed by Sam Spencer. The
second book reviewed was "Of Time and the River" by Thomas Wolfe, a native of Asheville, who lived there until
his death approximately six months ago. James Truslow Adams reviewed the literary work. Philip Peyton ended the program by discussing
"The Charlotte Observer," its makeup, and its different phases of work.

Hindus is a native Russian but was in Czechoslovakia during the late summer of 1938 to observe developments firsthand.

Open House Davidson Presents Dorms Festival of Music

As an Annual Feature, Seniors Give Annual Invitation To Open Dormitories

On Thursday, February 23, an Open House will be held on the first floors of all the dormitories except the
Barracks to give outsiders a chance to visit the rooms on those floors.

PFOHL HEADS PROJECT

Trustees Convene

Trustees of Davidson College will convene on the campus February 22 for their meeting. Dr. Walter L. Lingle, president of
the college, will return from Florida, where he is addressing a chain of Mission Conferences, in time for the meeting.
The trustees will not meet again until Commencement, at which time the Executive Committee election will be held.

Invitations, in the name of the Senior Class, will be issued this week to members of the Board of Trustees,
members of the faculty and their wives, and a few townspeople. No definite hour has as yet been set for
the Open House, but it will take place in the afternoon sometime between three and five o'clock. Refreshments will be
served to the guests in the parlor of Watts. This is an annual affair sponsored by the Senior Class. The
first-floor rooms are open at that time to the inspection of outsiders. It will not be compulsory for each room
to be open, but it is hoped that all men will cooperate in letting friends and faculty see how and
where Davidson students live.

The committee in charge of the function is made up of Alex Erwin, chairman; John Mawhinney, and "Boo" Walker.

Mid-Winters Great Success

Most Brilliant Dance Set Of Year Features Hudson and Kemp

Large crowds attended the Pan-Hellenic dances during the past weekend, Friday and Saturday, February 10th and 11th. Featured at the
dances were Dean Hudson and his Orchestra on Friday and the music of Hal Kemp and his Orchestra playing for
the Saturday Mid-Winters.

The Charlotte Armory was beautifully decorated with red and white of the Valentine season. Streamers sloped from the center to
each end of the floor, for the entire room was opened for dancing. During the "no break" lights played on
a large revolving crystal ball suspended in the center. There were not only students who attended the dances but many
alumni and friends of the students were noticed among the dancers.

Chapel Hears Guest Artists

Four numbers were presented to the college student body in chapel Monday by the University of Michigan Little Symphony Orchestra,
a group playing at Davidson for the musical festival which ended yesterday. A solo by Miss Ruth Krieger, violincellist, was
included among the selections presented.

The orchestra was presented by Professor John Crooks Bailey, who teaches music at Davidson. The program was as follows: "Malice"
by Debussy; "Adagio" from Concerto for Violincello, by Jazevan (solo part by Miss Ruth Krieger); "March of the Tin Soldiers,"
by Pierne; and "Air for the String," by Bach.

West Virginia, now leads the Senior class with an average of 3.200 for his work through the first semester of
the 1938-1939 school session. Akron University students have a new rating for their professor (h.p.h. - harumphs per hour). They
have given their leather medal to Prof. Ross Stagner, for his record of 107 h.p.h. and 16 sniffs in one-hour
lecture.

Registrar States Date For Revised Catalogue

Davidson College's new catalog will be out the end of this week or the first of next week, it was
stated by F. W. Hengeveld, Registrar of Davidson. The catalog, which is now in the hands of the printers, contains
announcements for the 1939-1940 session. The majority of the changes in the book are in connection with the Department of
Business Administration. Some new courses will be offered in this department and slight revisions in the mathematical branches of the
Business courses will be made. Hengeveld added that members of the student body having friends who are planning to start
college next fall should turn their names in to the registrar's office so that they may receive copies of this
new catalog. Leaflets are being sent to twenty thousand high school seniors in six southern states. These leaflets on "Choosing
Your College," are being mailed by N.Y.A. men to boys in North Carolina, South Carolina, Virginia, Florida, Georgia, and Alabama.
The names given by members of the student body form a very valuable source of contacts.

Photographers Meet

On Monday night, February 13, the Photographic Club in a body attended an open meeting of the Charlotte Camera Club
by special request. The club now has a contest among its members for pictures of doorways of the campus. This
contest is similar to others that they have had in the past. It will close February 22 and the winner
will be announced soon afterwards. The club will hold its regular meeting tonight and all members are urged to be
present.
