Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN WED., JAN. 11, 1939

The Davidsonian
Founded By the Class of 1915

1938 1939
Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest Member

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON AVE. New York, N.Y
CHICAGO • BOSTON • LOS ANGELES • SAN FRANCISCO

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879

BILL MARQUESS...........Editor-in-Chief
JOHN LATIMER...........Business Manager
Terrell Porter...........Managing Editor
Jack Abernathy..........Managing Editor
BY Austin...............Associate Editor
Nan Holland.............Associate Editor
Sarl Hudson.............Associate Editor
Sam Spencer.............Associate Editor
Toni Casali..............Movie Editor
Ovid Bell................Staff Photographer

BUSINESS STAFF
Lyle Evans..............Asst. Business Manager
Doe Tester..............Advertising Manager
John Ross...............Advertising Manager
Julian Lee...............Circulation Manager
Tom Page...............Circulation Manager
Bud Gilmore.............Collection Manager

To Be Done in 1939

As the new year gets under way there are several needs that come to our minds as worthwhile objectives for
students and administration to try to achieve. Here they are:
1. A definite athletic policy
2. Student conduct in assembly
3. An Alma Mater
4. Student dress in open meetings
5. Cooperation with Court of Control
6. Public speaking course
7. Student sentiment against breakage

The athletic policy goes at the head of the list because that decision is one of the most important confronting
Davidson at the moment—one which will affect the future of the college in no small way. No matter what decision
is reached it will be unpopular with many students, but the Athletic Council is carefully considering the matter and we
have confidence in its ability.

Others to the contrary, we think that the behavior in student body meetings has been less rowdy during recent weeks.
However, there is still much room for improvement. These meetings are an integral part of the Davidson tradition and spirit
and must not be allowed to degenerate into what appears to be an insane asylum.

There is nothing that Davidson needs more than an Alma Mater. With over 100 years of tradition back of us
is it not strange that we lack something that practically every other college in the country, old or new, possesses—a
college song that we love and reverence? “O, Davidson” is only a pep song suitable for football season and it
must seem almost ridiculous to an outsider to see us consider it as an alma mater.

The dress of some of us at plays, lectures, concerts, and other open meetings is a reflection upon the manners
and refinement of all of us. When a lecturer appears in formal dress, the least we can do is extend
to him the courtesy of putting on a tie and coat.

Since “time whereof the memory of man runneth not to the contrary” the Judge of the Court of Control has
been asking for the help of the members of the three upper classes in enforcing the Freshman Regulations. And for
the same length of time we have done nothing about it but gripe because the Court hadn’t campused Freshman Jones
for not wearing his cap.

Most of the above-mentioned improvements call for action on the part of the students, but here’s something we would like
to see the administration do—put into the curriculum a course on public speaking. One of the greatest assets a man
can have is the ability to speak and to think on his feet before an audience and we do not
believe that one who lacks this ability can be called well-educated.

The “Question of the Week” in this issue has to do with a return to the old damage fee system
of covering the damage to college property. We feel that this would distinctly be a step backward and that the
only solution to the problem is to build up a conscience in the student body, a sentiment against such wanton
destruction, and then there would be no damage to pay for. It would take time, but could be accomplished by
a concentrated effort. After all, is it not childish to throw a tennis ball through a window merely to see
it break?

Students’ Fable

“And the time of great trial and tribulation drew near, and fear struck in the hearts of the sons of
David, and the inhabitants of the tribe thereof. For lo! the period of examination had come upon them, and they
did sorely repent them of their past misdeeds.

“So each man, after his own fashion, did repent and make preparation for the travail ahead. Some indeed resigned themselves
to their black fate, and did take as their motto the ancient injunction: ‘eat, drink, and be merry, for tomorrow
ye die’. But never has it been recorded that any died in previous such pestilences, though some indeed have suffered
banishment from the tribal home. But most of them did gird up their loins and prepare them manfully for the
coming conflict, and such as did, we learn from the records, have always come forth unscathed, and will continue to
do so.

“And the manner of their preparation was on this wise—they did pore assiduously and without ceasing over the manuscripts provided
for them by their leaders, sometimes performing these rites singly, when they had the most success, and sometimes in groups
at which they were wont to stray on more pleasant topics, as experiences from previous pestilences and the like.

“Likewise they did hold consultations with their forty leaders, who regularly twice a year did conduct the course of the
afflictions. And from these confabulations they did emerge with these revolutionary promises, to wit: that each of the leaders of
the tribe would furnish a comprehensive outline of possible dilemmas, that the machine known to the ancients as the ‘mimeograph’
would be used to run off the dilemmas, and that all were to be furnished with the usual review of
materials for use.

“And all were alike mightily pleased at such results.

“And lo! The ten days of tribulation did descend like the plague of locusts, and it was the worst ever
set down in the records, as all did agree. But the strangest circumstance did come to pass, so that, fortified
with the aid of their leaders, all, yea, even to the last of the sons of David, did come through
unscathed. And all did marvel at this wondrous thing, but none could explain it. So this marvelous thing is recorded
in the annals of the tribe, dating back even unto the year one thousand nine hundred and thirty-nine, in the
month of January.”

JACK ABERNATHY.

Campus Comments

“The consistent childishness of Davidson students is amazing. It seems impossible for them to realize that they are now college
men, not prep school lads, nor inmates of some state sanitarium, but MEN, who should be graduated from all infantile
characteristics.

“The particular act which inspires this editorial is the breaking of windows which occurred before the holidays. To any visitor
who might have seen the results, Davidson would have appeared most unfavorably, and the stranger would probably go away with
the impression that it is no place for sensible men to pursue their education. And so it reflects upon the
entire student body, whereas only a few of the boorish element is responsible.

“Had this been the first time such high school practices expressed themselves, it would not be quite so bad, but
these things occur several times every year, and even once is enough to make a very undesirable impression upon outsiders.

“It is, of course, perfectly clear that college men must have fun the same as anybody else, but when it
manifests itself in such very crude ways as the pre-Christmas affair, it falls into the category of what abnormal psychology
would term an act of regression; the opposite of progression. Certainly we don’t want any Davidson students getting back to
the place where they will have to be fed with a bottle and followed around by a nurse.

“So let this be an appeal to you as MEN to discard all of these immature, unbecoming practices and express
your fun in more subtle fashion, and in a way that will not cause disgraceful reflection upon yourselves and your
college.”

With the challenge of Ripley, I present the above editorial which appeared in The Davidsonian four years ago. The only
alteration is the change necessitated by the differing etiology of the incidents. Yet, how well it fits the recent difficulty
our student body faced. Turning again to the old paper, we read:

“The question then arises: ‘Who loves Davidson most?’ he who rests content to swal-

SUPER SNOOPINGS
CAMPUS IN CARTOON

SIGRID BERGERSON
SCORE OF 500 / UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON COED, WON THE NATIONAL INTERCOLLEGIATE INDIVIDUAL SMALL BORE RIFLE CHAMPIONSHIP WITH A PERFECT
SCORE.

APPLICATION “SIGNED” WITH A FOOTPRINT. IT WAS THE “SIGNATURE” OF WESLEY COX, 3 DAYS OLD, SON OF BUDD COX, BERLIN'S
FROSH COACH. IT WAS FILED AWAY FOR REFERENCE.

ABOUT GALLOWAY
ATTENDED THE FORMAL OPENING OF ERSKINE COLLEGE FOR 78 CONSECUTIVE YEARS!

© ASSOCIATED COLLEGIATE PRESS

Davidson and The University of Chicago.

Dear Mr. Editor,

I would like to contribute a letter to your column if you think the subject would be of interest to
students and faculty. It is of considerable interest to me. Not long ago I received one of the circulars from
the University of Chicago extolling its individualizing undergraduate education. One of their claims struck me, to wit, that students even
took library books home with them during holidays and no compulsion was used. You may remember that just before we
closed for Christmas you ran a small notice for me, I think on the back page, announcing that students might,
if they wished, take books from the Davidson library to their homes. I didn't expect much response nor did I
give the idea much publicity. Maybe the University of Chicago would be surprised to learn that over two hundred and
seventy books left the campus with our small student body. Most of them were books bearing on the curriculum too.
Here’s hoping they were read!

Sincerely yours,
CHALMERS DAVIDSON.
Director.

Your Film Report Card
By CHARLIE LUTHER

Wednesday, January 11, 1939
“Say It In French”, Ray Milland, Olympe Bradna, and Mary Carlisle. Gay as the proverbial spring day in Paris, “Say
It In French” has a zip that turns it into one of the season's comedy hits. But some say it
is, “light as a feather.” Ray Milland, in a tailor-made role, and Olympe Bradna carry the involvement as newlyweds who
discover that they must keep their marriage a secret in order to straighten out the family financial status. Milland returns
to New York with his French bride, and finds himself engaged to a former flame, Irene Harvey, and the resulting
confusion provides the entire cast with excellent comic opportunities.

Thursday and Friday, January 12-13
“Pacific Liner”, ChesterHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

and Wendy Barrie. This picture has just been released and there is not much dope out on it yet, but
this is what I found for you. Chester Morris is a ship’s doctor and Wendy Barrie is his nurse, and
a beautiful one at that. The doctor and his nurse battle a cholera epidemic which breaks out in the engine
room and perils everyone on the big ship. The engine crew is headed by Victor McLaglen and he figures in
a great part of the show, which is quite a dramatic show of a great ship.

Saturday, January 14
Sincerely, “Going Places,” I’ve let you down again. I could not find a thing on this show but I will
give you a hint, it's a Saturday show. Get it?

Monday and Tuesday, Jan. 16-17
“Zaza,” Claudette Colbert, Herbert Marshall, Bert Lahr, and Helen Westley. Zaza steps out of that immortal book of Zola and
comes to life on the screen. That coquettish, vivacious toast of Paris, who couldn't keep from loving a man, forbidden
by the codes of ethics for her to love him or he her. This mad little girl (Claudette Colbert) of
the halls sets out to steal the heart of the handsome, indiscreet Dufresne (Herbert Marshall) from another. There is a
lyric interlude of love in a cottage (which may be cut out by the time you get to see the
film), and then the man goes off to Paris. Zaza learns that Dufresne is married. She follows in a burst
of anger, invades the home, and is confronted by the child of her lover and his legal spouse. Can she
break up this home when the child looks at her so? Of course, Dufresne comes back. What will Zaza do?
Well, we will leave that for you to see, don’t want to ruin the show for you. Paramount imported a
lot of costumes and scenery from abroad to make the picture as authentic as possible. A heap of money spent
in producing the show.

The Inside Dope: All the world loves a little gutter charmer who loses her heart and has to pay for
it. This all depends upon how much it has been deshocked.

The less guesswork put into business the more profits taken out.
Much can be learned from others but nothing equals experience.
There is always a vacant place for the man who works well.
The fellow without vice is more than often, without virtue.
A smile is contagious, but the board of health doesn’t object.
One thing that improves the longer it is kept is your temper.

By KEN LAWSON
Back in school again for a rest after the hustle and bustle of Yuletide festivities, we find that the ominous
approach of semester examinations has not as yet dimmed the exuberant spirits of many members of the Student Body. But
here we are getting ahead of ourselves because quite a few tall stories have trickled back to the campus concerning
nefarious activities among undergraduate celebrators. Charlie Luther listened to the yearnings of his heart and took a trip up Greenville
way which only resulted in his becoming a confirmed jitterbug; Jim Anderson was an amused onlooker. But this is mild
in comparison to the goings-on of ladies’ man Sam Hemphill who deserted the fair young ladies of Marion for a
little wooing under the Miami moon only to have the recipient of his affection suffer a nervous breakdown the following
day. It is rumored Sam is now preparing to write his thesis in graduate school next year on the subject
“The hand is quicker than the eye.” Also, there are the many fellows who forgot that it is supposed to
be in the Spring when a young man’s fancy turns to love and visited the objects of their affection or
entertained heart throbs in their homes. We nominate for supremacy Dave King who stole a march by both visiting and
being visited by his “one and only” during the vacation period. Some of the Christmas gusto was carried back to
school by several boys, especially members of the freshmen class who put on extemporaneous entertainment for the rest of the
Student Body Saturday night. We nominate for stardom Elmer Bishop who should certainly make a great track man with his
speed. Other interesting sights of the day included Bob Powell copying the headdress of the Maharajah of India, Tom Mullen
developing good nursemaid technique although he turned out to be a sore disappointment, Dick Taylor a sandwich hog personified, and
Harry Hendrick becoming one of the boys. Nothing would be complete without a discussion of the debonair attitude of Greensboro’s
gift to Davidson—Louis Hipp, who is not too concerned with the public procedure prescribed by conventionalism. Personally, I believe Emily
Post would have been shocked but you never can tell with this modern emphasis on speed. We wonder what leader
of the Student Body was at home to two beautiful young ladies shortly after the opening of school, and why
Ned Iverson keeps telling such stories on Hemphill when all the time he was setting the example for Sam to
follow?

Random shots from here and there: Charlie Sherman finding his fatness a desirable quality the night school opened even if
he was mistaken for a man named Ray... Tom Crichton developing a great affinity for fifteen-year-olds, so soon after giving
one of his autographs to a Charlotte beauty... Wilson Coker developing a beautiful golf swing just before the Christmas exodus...
Sonny Cunningham creating a most embarrassing predicament for his lady love through controversial telegrams which were relayed by telephone through
the school authorities... Reid Harmon a changed man and busily preparing to snake on himself all three of his Midwinters
dates in case Gene Liipfert following up the holiday inroads with a weekend trip to Randolph Macon... Rea Tenney finding
the pot of gold at the end of the rainbow only to see it was red... Advice to Bobby Gish:
You can charge a small admission to defray expenses and still retain your amateur standing... Can't understand why Ken McLean
is making those quick trips to Charlotte these days.

In the Groove
By TOM PERRIN
TO PASS ON REVIEW... Somehow we had never thought the lot of a student assistant, in his official capacity at
least, was a particularly hilarious one. Maybe we were right at that, but something just turned up that makes things
seem rather brighter than we'd pictured them. It was a review paper handed in by one of Professor Lilly’s superior
sophs; and for sheer artistic “bull” the answer to the first of the five questions is a masterpiece of its
type. We cannot print it all, since it runs for two full pages, but the following extract should give you
an idea.

Q. Give a minute description of the fight between Arthur and the Giant.
A. “... Arthur knocked on the door, interrupting the giant’s reverie. The Giant, who was an ex-priest, now turned used-charger
dealer, said, ‘Invenite, et pax vobiscum.’
“Now Arthur’s mother had been frightened by a priest, and when he heard the blundering Latin, dashed for the elevator.
The giant trailed him to where he caught the ‘West Peachtree, Oglethorpe’ car. I think the car made that light
at Baker Street, and the Giant didn’t and you know how long it takes to change, so Arthur got away.
“The next Monday, the Boxing Commission told Arthur he'd be barred from the state if he didn’t fight the Giant.
(You see, the contract was signed way back in the 16th century, and definitely iron-clad).
“But our hero had an ace down his gauntlet...”

Don’t suppose we'd better name the author of this stuff, but if Editor Miller wants to sign him up for
“Scripts ’n Pranks,” we might arrange an introduction.

DEAN’S HERE AGAIN... Those Greek promoters of dancing festivals were deep in the groove when they signed Dean Hudson to
team with H. Kemp for the Mid-Winter set, we think. In fact, that particular weekend looks like just the thing
we'll be needing to steady our nerves after the college Dean’s semi-annual purge.

NERVES... Speaking of steady nerves, we've just met a man who certainly has 'em. His name is Herman L. Jahnke,
and he is a steeplejack by trade. His home is Marshalltown, Iowa, but his work takes him all around. He’s
the man you saw hanging to the top of the campus flagpole the first of the week, painting. Mr. Jahnke
would probably impress you as one of the most deliberate men you ever saw—which, possibly, is why he is still
in business after working on steeples, factory chimneys, flagpoles, and other high places for twenty-seven years. He is a rather
short man, towards middle age, slightly German in appearance, definitely so in accent, and an amiable talker. The height of
the flagpole (130 feet or so, here, we learned) doesn’t worry him at all, unless somebody sets it jiggling by
pulling on a guy wire. That is annoying—even dangerous when you're at the top. Mr. Jahnke attaches himself to the
pole by a tricky arrangement of “lassoes,” making the undertaking fairly safe; and he progresses up or down somewhat in
the manner of a careful measuring worm. He has painted this pole before—the last time was about eight years ago
when he put up the present chain. Somebody else has painted it since then. Incidentally, his first act of resuming
contact with terra firma, Monday, would have made any writer of advertising happy. He lit a cigarette.

The man who really knows himself doesn’t tell all he knows.
When you make a friend you sometimes destroy an enemy.
A sure cure for your business ills is a heavy dose of brains.
Knowing that you don’t know much is knowing a lot.
Measure your cloth ten times; you can’t cut it but once.
A widow’s advantage is that she can give references.
