Thurs., Nov. 9, 1939

Phi Gams

As can be expected, this weekend found nearly all the Fijis at Brother Rogers who tripped off to Sullins, at
Bristol, Va., wolf. A large number of the brothers and pledges had dates for the weekend. Among them were: the
Homecoming dances. Sponsor Martha Key Brewer, Randolph-Macon, Faye Butt, Randolph-Macon, U. of Ga, Anne Sutherland, Knoxville, Tenn., Dottie Ann Blair,
Randolph-Macon, Charlotte Martin, Charlotte, Mary Razer, Randolph-Macon, Emory Hill, Sweetbriar, Lib Hoppe, Charlotte, Laurine Carlson, Hollins, Booty Hutcheson, Wilson, N.
C., Mona Moser, Charlotte, N. C., Anne Wiley, Charlotte, Peggy Taylor, Morristown, Tenn., Floride McBee, Greenville, S. C., Susan Buchanan,
Knoxville, Tenn., Withodine Guio, Columbia, S. C., Anne Crosswell, who was the only lone one. Eldridge, Margaret Hol.

AMONG THE GREEKS

House after the Friday night dance, and an informal reception was held at the house after the football game. After
the Saturday night dance, a breakfast was held at the Wooden Bowl in Charlotte.

The following girls were guests of Brothers over the weekend: Lucille Paton, Fayetteville; Martha Lewis, Dallas, Tex.; Eugenia Cary, Greenville,
S. C.; Alice Clark, Clarkton; Ruth Purnelle, Spartanburg, S. C.; Pony Monroe, Charlotte; Mattine Watson, Spartanburg, S. C.; Ellen Pratt,
Louisville, Ky.; Harriet Morris, Johnson City, Tenn.; Mary Louise Riddick, Scotland Neck; Betty Waldron, Greensboro; Emmy Lou Seales, Greenville; Annabelle
Boyd, Greenville; Helen Clark, Fayetteville; Lib Liles, Concord; Marjorie Crisp, Lenoir; Mickey Smith, Sumter, S. C.; Ellen Self, Asheville; Virginia
DeWitt, Charlotte; Mary Efird, Albemarle; Virginia Hickman, Charlotte; Yvonne Myers, Charlotte.

Pledge Land’s mother visited the chapter over the weekend. Brother Thompson's father and brother visited him Saturday. The families of
Pledges McGee and McCoy visited the chapter Saturday. Miss Harvison Smith visited her brother, Pledge Smith, Saturday.

Pi Kappa Alpha

Beta chapter of Pi Kappa Alpha had one of the largest homecomings in recent years. Among the alumni brothers who
visited the chapter last weekend were: Buck Mills, Bob Anders, “Snoz” Hill, Bill Archer, Milton Crisp, T. J. Turner, Ken
Knorr, Willie Moore, “Teeny” Lafferty, H. H. Harris, Reverend Davis, and others. Also visitors were Mr. and Mrs. Anderson of
Greenville, S. C., parents of Jim Anderson; Mr. and Mrs. Browning of Greenville, parents of Paul Browning; Mr. and Mrs.
Martin, of Lebanon, Tenn., parents of Joe Martin; Mrs. Parks of Black Mountain, mother of Ross Parks; and Mr. and
Mrs. Allison of Charlotte.

S.A.E.

After the dance Friday night, the chapter gave a feed at the house for the brothers and their dates. Alumni
were well represented over the weekend, the following being present: Bailey Williams, Nick Nicholson, George Matthis, Perry Sigan, Hoke Robinson,
Ken McLean, Latimer, Mark Cauble, John Yates, and others. Dates for the weekend included Harriet Easterby, Laurens, S. C.; Gloria
Crichton, Bronxville, N. Y.; Nita Newbold, Hertford; Mary Hollis, Columbia, Ga.; Dukie Clements, Durham; Fay Lindbergh, Converse; Lucy Gray Smither,
Winston; Bessie Heyward, Columbia, S. C.; Helen Moore, Knoxville, Tenn.; Pat Ridgeway, Columbia, S. C.; Gale Johnson, Columbia, S. C.;
Marie Pons, Valdese; Judy Constantine, Birmingham; Jane Dickinson, Randolph-Macon; Eleanor Newman, Salisbury; Peggy Beattie and Shirley Thompson from Converse; Mary
Johnson, Atlanta; Marilyn Reeves, Greensboro; Libby Dooley, Charlotte; Alice Pritchett, Charlotte; Bette Urquhart, Greensboro; Naomi Newsome, Whitmire; Delice Young, Charlotte;
and Ann Dichtenmiller of Charlotte. Girls at the house Sunday night were Libby Dooley, Aileen Long, and Anne Dichtenmiller, all
of Charlotte.

Preceding the Saturday night dance, the members gathered at Thacker's, where the brothers, pledges, and guests dined informally. The parents
of brothers Smith, Bahnson, McLean, and Faison visited the house Saturday during the celebrations. Brother Bobby Strange from the N.
C. chapter at Carolina visited the house and met the new members.

Phi Delta Theta

Girls who were guests during the dances were: Audrey Johnson, Asheville, Jane Adams, Meridian, Miss.; Lib Price, Peggy Curlee, Rosemary
Holland, Gentry Burks, Jean Welsh, Virginia Smith, June Burks, June Southworth, Charlotte; Nancy Cleveland, Greenville, S. C.; Charlotte Mann, Washington,
D. C.; Alstyne Brinkley, Greenwood, S. C.; Nancy Beatty, Rock Hill, S. C.; Sarah Dees, Goldsboro, N. C.; Hottie Whittle,
Martinsville, Va.; Jan Barrett, Lillian Jones, Natalie Elliott, and Hanson Hartzog. Alumni who returned were: Pete McKnight, Jim Morrison, Stuart
Barnes, Dick Legrand, and Ned Iverson. Visiting brothers were: Bill Snelling, Ga., and Tyson Betty, Duke. After the dance on
Friday, a feed was held for all the brothers and their dates at the house. A banquet was held at
the Hotel Charlotte Saturday night before the dance.

Kappa Sigma

Kappa Sigma played host to alumni and girls from all over the south for the Homecoming weekend. A feed was
enjoyed at the house after the Friday night dance. The following girls were guests: Lib Hamrick, Mary Lou Moffett, Betty
Isom, Mary Spencer, and May Knowles. The chapter held its annual Homecoming Banquet at Thacker's in Charlotte on Saturday night.
There were seventy-five present. Wilbur Carter, Clarence Pierce, Joe Martin, Ross Parks, and Sid Sample were pledged by the Fraternity
last week.

S.P.E.

The following girls were guests of the brothers over the weekend: Adelaide Haynes, Mary Dunne, Frances Manning, and Peggy Shollar,
all of Greensboro; Betty Dickerson, Mary Jane Goode, Helen Moody, Lib Porter, and Charlotte McAdden, all of Charlotte; Katherine Hay
of Orangeburg, S. C.; Margaret Peace of Rock Hill, S. C.; Irene Mitchell of Wilson, N. C.; Nancy Carter of
Salisbury, and Sybil Trexler of Concord. Rev. and Mrs. John W. Davis of Kinston and Mr. and Mrs. C. W.
Legerton of Charleston, S. C., visited their sons, Jack Davis and Clarence Legerton, respectively. The following alumni returned for homecoming:
Roanoke Rapids; T. P. Porter of Waycross, Ga.; Ed Cloyd of Raleigh; Hiram White of Rock Hill; Rufus Clark of
Bessemer City. Hiram Tilgham from “The Citadel” visited Brother John Kay.

Beta

The Beta’s weekend was filled with festivity. The dances, banquet, breakfast, and party attracted many guests to the campus for
the weekend. Dates were: Jane Kirkpatrick of Charlotte; “Eddie” Ryle of Charleston, S. C.; Sarah Brownlee of Charlotte; Ethel Ann
Hutcheson of Reidsville; Eleanor Bonner of Valdese; Jane Rankin of Charlotte; Miriam Bonner of Valdese; Hen Hines of Greensboro College;
Caroline Miller of Sweetbriar College; Irma Dell Blackstone of Winthrop; Iris Boggis of Beechhurst, Long Island; Sophie Walker of Charlotte;
Martha Laird of Alabama; Annette Bruton of Greensboro College; Edna O'Hair of Gainesville, Fla.; Jess Boyce of Converse College; Marguerite
Mason of Charlotte; Lurline Ross of Burlington; Dot Summerville of Charlotte; Frances Cardo of Converse College; Nancy Howanspeople.

Delta

Pre-Medical Baby Clinic will hold its first meeting in support of these institutions.

Square Dance With Jokes

Humor Magazine Makes Appearance, Homecoming, Freshmen Provide Theme

On Saturday, November 4, the first issue of the great humor magazine of Davidson College, Scripts ’n Pranks, was released,
and it was filled with many stories, articles, and jokes. Of varied types were the stories in the November issue;
and all are well written. The three feature stories are: “Mill of the Gods,” by Gordon Horton, “Salem Chronicle” by
Rut Miller, winner of last year’s literary society competition, and “Experiment in the Gruesome,” by George Milne. All stories are
illustrated by lino-cuts and represent the efforts of students at writing.

Climaxes Fete

Trio Of Rural Rug-Cutters

Fresh Weight Furnish Music For Halloween Carnival

Queens-Chicora College experienced its first square dance Halloween when it invited the Davidson students to its Halloween carnival last week.
This riotous affair, really a mixture of the square dance and the Virginia reel, climaxed the informal program prepared for
the occasion. Music was furnished by a trio of rural rug-cutters, and the calling was done by a “real professional.”
250 Davidson gentlemen invaded this female sanctuary at 5:30 Monday afternoon. After getting their dates by drawing names from a
box, they were treated to a Halloween supper. Everyone then danced.

Students and Publication

Queens’s First Students List Many Future Occupations

Averages 137

Dick Phillips Is First To Take Two Honors

Attention, Frosh! Which of you considers yourself the average of your class physically? Well, here’s the dope. The red-capped, bespectacled,
freckled-faced, knock-kneed member of your class that towers five feet nine inches into the stratosphere, that tips the beam at
137 lbs, and that has just passed the never-been-kissed twice-in-the-same-second age is the fellow with the average physique in your
class. This is ten pounds underweight, but this situation is being remedied as shown by the latest report on food
consumption.

Symphonic Band and Glee Club Entertain Big Homecoming Crowd

The Davidson College Symphonic Band and the Glee Club opened their 1939-40 season Friday evening and Saturday morning, performing two
of the main events on the Homecoming program. Both of the concerts were well attended by students and townspeople as
well as the many “old grads” who returned to Davidson for the Homecoming weekend. The Symphonic Band, under the direction
of conductor James Christian Pfohl, opened its concert Friday evening with “Prelude and Fugue in G Minor” by Johann Rach.
The program proceeded with a mixture of classical, semi-classical, and popular music. “Three Kings” composed by Walter M. Smith, was
beautifully rendered by a cornet trio. “Campus on Parade,” a march composed by Leonard V., Assistant Director of the Lenoir
High School Band, was conducted by Mr. Meretta, himself, who was at the concert. A clarinet trio gave a very
clever arrangement of “The Three Blind Mice.” The concert was concluded with the audience standing and singing “O Davidson,” accompanied
by the band.

Glee Club Sings

The Davidson College Glee Club, under the direction of Thane McDonald, gave a sacred group and a secular group of
compositions, which were very well received by the audience. In addition, the Glee Club gave a fine rendition of “All
Hail,” composed by Dr. G. M. Maxwell.of the class of 1896, of Roanoke, Va., and was offered for the consideration
of the alumni and students. It is yet to be decided whether this hymn shall be used as the new
official Davidson College Alma Mater. These concerts were only the first in a series to be continued during the 1939-40
season. The next concert of the Symphonic Band will be given Friday, November 17th, in collaboration with the musical organization
of Queens-Chicora College.

R. C. Chapter Begins Drive
Every Adult In Community To Be Asked To Join

Every Davidson adult, financially capable, will be expected to join the Red Cross when it begins its annual membership campaign
Saturday. The local chapter, feeling that there are many in the community who want to give more to this cause,
will stress the five-dollar membership.

At the meeting Wednesday night, final plans were drawn up for the campaign. It was decided at this time that
the Red Cross, in addition to its other health projects, would give Diphtheria Toxoid to all children between the ages
of six months and six years.

Under Sponsors

This project will be made possible with the money obtained from the local memberships and through the cooperation of T.
Matthews and the Alpha Epsilon fraternity. The fraternity, under the direction of W. W. Boyce, will make a census of
all the children in the town to see whether they have been vaccinated against this disease. Through the arrangements of
Mrs. Rene Williamson, the “better half” of the college physician, the colored children will be vaccinated first. This will be
done on Wednesday at three o’clock in the office formerly occupied by Dr. George Withers. At this time the Diphtheria
toxoid will be given to all the colored children within the age limits. During the following week, an opportunity will
be given to the white children to receive this vaccination free.

Great Need

The committee felt a great need for this project since Diphtheria outbreaks have been frequent in the past. Once a
case appears it is quickly spread and often results in an epidemic. Dr. Matthews, assistant college physician, states that “Fall
and Spring are the worst times for Diphtheria outbreaks.”

The Red Cross hopes, through the cooperation of the students and the community, to have the largest membership in the
history of the local chapter.

Feminine Element

The feminine element is well represented in a page of photographs showing the three college co-eds and a short paragraph
discussing them. However, photos of campus life as a whole seem to be lacking, depriving the readers of an interesting
feature. Numerous jokes as well as several well-done cartoons by students of the college bring humor on the scene. The
sense of humor is also gratified by a short satiric description of his horse “Horace,” by Walter Heilman.

Freshmen Considered

There is a double-page spread of cartoons by Frank Atwater displaying a day in the life of a freshman, as
well as a poem by Frank Jeter catching the highlights in the career of a freshman. Elder Bishop includes a
bit of friendly advice to all members of the class of '43. The Poet's Corner and Notes are this year
both under new editorships, the places of last year’s editors being filled now by Herbert Swasey and Vincent Wyche.

Green To Be Here Sunday

The speaker at the college vespers on Sunday, November 12, will be Dr. Sylvester Green of Hartsville, S.C. Dr. Green
comes to us from Coker College, where he is president. The speaker of the evening is entering his fourth year
as president of Coker. During the past years, the college has experienced a period of rapid growth under his leadership.

Green received his bachelor’s degree from Wake Forest College. Since that time, he has studied at the various Baptist seminaries
of the South. He has served since the time of his graduation at many of the South’s larger churches. Among
these churches are the First Baptist Church of Hartsville, S.C., and the First Baptist Church of Richmond, Va., at which
post he was serving when he received the invitation to become president of Coker College.

It is fitting that Dr. Green speak to Davidson students, for he deals every day with the problems of a
modern, Christian, liberal arts college. He is considered one of the outstanding speakers to young people in the Baptist denomination.

HOMECOMING (Continued from Page One)

Christian education and the Christian college. He showed how our Christian colleges are important, giving as the main objective the
training of students for Christian citizenship and Christian leadership in all walks of life. All Christian colleges should stress the
importance of Christian education and should by example and otherwise help other schools to see the big place this type
of school has in the modern educational system.

The meeting adjourned to a program of songs and skits by Queens girls. With Payne as master of ceremonies, this
program was featured by solos by Frances Riddle, and specialties by Sarah Thompson, a versatile sophomore at Queens. After the
square dance which followed, the sorority houses were opened to the girls and their dates. The festival officially closed at
midnight, and from all reports, the proverbial “good time was had by all.”

Light Frosh

Though Mr. A. Verage Frosh may seem rather light, it should be noted that one of the star backs on
the varsity football squad tips the scales at exactly the same figure as he does. Also, these new suits with
the built-in chest and shoulders will broaden those rounded shoulders and give the “perfect 36” measurement to the class of
'43. It is useless, say the Frosh, to work out in the gym when you can get a tailor-made physique
free of charge with a new suit.

Freshmen as a group and individually are also duly considered.

ODK Initiates Seven Seniors

Cowan, Harnsberger, Hudson, Marion, Mashburn, Richmond, Sprunt Chosen

Initiations of the recently elected members of the Davidson chapter of Omicron Delta Kappa, national honorary leadership fraternity, were held
last Tuesday, November 2, at 9:00 P.M. in the dome room of Chambers building. The following were initiated: James M.
Cowan, president of the “D” Club and Athletic Association and three-letter man; Thomas L. Harnsberger, Cadet-Major of the R.O.T.C. Battalion
and president of Scabbard and Blade; Karl G. Hudson, editor of the Y Handbook, student council member, and president of
Sigma Upsilon; Paul B. Marion, president of the Pan-Hellenic Council; Charles M. Mashburn, past vice president of the student body,
student councilman and manager of the football team; George H. Richmond, manager of the student store and member of the
student council; David W. Sprunt, president of Le Cercle Francais, long-time student council member and prominent man in the “Y”
Cabinet; and Mr. David Ovens of Charlotte.

After the official initiation, an informal feed was held at the Phi Delta Theta house. Rev. James A. Jones, pastor
of the Myers Park Presbyterian Church of Charlotte and a Davidson alumnus, made a talk which was the principal feature
of the evening.

Ernest Ellison, Inc.
“JUST INSURANCE”
115 East Fourth Street
Charlotte, N.C.

Two Letter Man

Here’s the long and short of things along with the large and small. At last, a two-letter man in Physical
Culture has arrived on the campus. This versatile freshman who stole the show is none other than Dick Phillips, the
first freshman known to have garnered honors both as the shortest and lightest member of his class. He weighs 104
pounds and is five feet four and seven-tenths inches short. Two orchids to Dick, who, like Charles Atlas and Horace
Lutz, eats Wheaties. Honors for the tallest freshman go to S. T. Withers—"S" is for Shorty. And last but most,
is Leon Paine, who has the weighty and distinguished honor of being the heaviest of his class—literally rocking the scales
at 235 pounds, 131 pounds better than two-letter man Phillips. Like Dick, he eats Wheaties. There’s a moral to every
story.

Every Camera In Our Store Is For Sale
W. I. VAN NESS
Charlotte, N.C.

Business Is Most Popular Of Forty-Two Prospective Vocations

The average Davidson man, if that mythical creature did exist, would be extremely versatile, for Davidson students are planning to
enter a total of 42 widely varying vocations. Although 155 Davidson men are as yet uncertain as to their life’s
work, the majority of students have decided to fill diverse positions ranging from morticians to cartoonists. These statistics are from
figures compiled in the registrar’s office.

Business Leads

Leading the list of prospective vocations is business, which claims the ambition of 109 students. Medicine brings in a close
second with 101 would-be doctors in the student body. There’s a big drop to the next ranking choice, which is
law with 46. Close behind comes the ministry with 41 students preparing themselves to preach the gospel. Teaching with 25,
chemistry with 20, banking with 17, and engineering with 16 complete the list of subjects attracting more than 15 students.

Popular Fields

Other popular vocations are: accounting with 15, music with 13, aviation with 12, and journalism with 10. To complete the
list, dentistry claims 7, medical missions 6, farming 4, insurance 4; architecture, athletic coaching, consular service, missionary work, and mortician’s
work claim three apiece; advertising, civil service, forestry, geology, scientific research, social science, textiles, and tobacco are goals for two
students each.

Held Over!
The Picture That All Charlotte Is Raving About
“Mr. Smith Goes To Washington”
with...
JAMES S. STEWART
JEAN ARTHUR
Edward Arnold - Harry Carey
Claude Rains - Guy Kibbee

SPECIAL SCENES
PENN-NAVY
NOTRE DAME-ARMY

NOW PLAYING
Broadway

Trade With
WHITE DRUG COMPANY
For Prompt and Efficient Service

Visit Us
To Furnish Your Room Completely
SOUTHERN 5 & 10c STORE
Davidson, N.C.

FOR YOUR LUNCHES AND YOUR CANDIES
STOP AT
CAROLINA SWEETS
YOUR NEXT TIME IN CHARLOTTE
CAROLINA SWEETS
224 N. TRYON
Next to Carolina Theatre

Davidson’s Oldest and Best
Davidson, N.C.

THURS. & FRIDAY—NOV. 9th & 10th
“Jamaica Inn”
SAT. NOV. 11th
“Sherlock Holmes”
MON. & TUES.—NOV. 13th & 14th
“Roaring Twenties”
WED.—NOV. 15th
“The Escape”
THURS. & FRIL—NOV. 16th & 17th
“Ninotchka”
DAVIDSON THEATRE
DAVIDSON, N.C.
