Student Officers Are Inducted

Z528 ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

The Davidsonian

O. D. K. Taps Fourteen

VOL. XXVI DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., WEDNESDAY, MAY, 1939 No. 27

Rising Juniors Elect Dale, Jones, Watson Student Councilmen

Second Ballot Eliminates Balsley, Bahnson, Bumbarger, King, Turner

INSTALLATION NEXT WEEK

Taylor, Class President, to Be Fourth Delegate

Andy Dale, Casey Jones, and Ed Watson were selected by the rising juniors to represent their class on the student
council next year, after two previous ballots had eliminated the other 15 men nominated.

First Ballot

In the first ballot the following men were up for the positions: Frank Barker, Charles Martin, Jay Bolin, Shorty Parrish,
Ross McElwee, Vernon Youngblood, Hank Bahnson, Hector McLean, Bob Balsley, Paul Bumbarger, Boyd Flynn, John King, Dick Arnold, Billy Turner,
Eldridge Brown, and Jones, Dale, and Watson. All of these men were eliminated on the first ballot with the exception
of Jones, Dale, Watson, Balsley, Bumbarger, King, Turner, and Bahnson. On the second ballot Jones was elected, with Balsley, Bahnson,
Dale, and Watson the other high men. Dale and Watson were elected on the third ballot. These three men, along
with the president of the rising juniors, Winston Taylor, will be the junior representatives. Five seniors and two sophomores, along
with their class president, make up the remainder of the council, which is headed by the president of the student
body.

Activities

Andy Dale is from Columbia, Tenn., and is a member of Phi Delta Theta social fraternity. He was runner-up for
the office of class presidency and is sports editor of the Davidsonian. He is also a member of the annual
staff. Ed Watson of Charlotte is a member of Sigma Phi Epsilon social fraternity. He served on the council as
a sophomore and is second vice president of the Y. M. C. A. for next year. He is also connected
with the Davidsonian, being a managing editor. Casey Jones is from Norfolk, Va., and is a member of Pi Kappa
Alpha social fraternity. He served on the council as a sophomore along with Watson and was recently elected second vice
president of the student body. He is on the business staff of the Davidsonian and is a sophomore track manager.

Sigma Upsilon Picks Leaders

Karl Hudson Will Be President of Society

Sigma Upsilon, national honorary literary society, elected for the next year’s officers: president, Karl Hudson; vice president and chairman of
the program committee, Tom Perrin; secretary, Neal Scott at their last meeting last Tuesday. Karl Hudson will take the place
of Sam Newell who is the resigning president and will take up his duties at the beginning of next year.
The offices of treasurer and steward will be elected next year. The following juniors were offered bids to the fraternity
at their last meeting: Earl Austin, Dick Kenyon, Apie Means, and George Milne. The only sophomores to be invited to
join were Paul Bumbarger and Casey Jones. The remainder of the meeting was spent in listening to the final portion
of a detective story “Death in Nagoya” read and written by Dr. W. P. Cumming and two original short stories
by Ed Morrow.

Texas Christian University this year won all of its football games and lost all of its basketball games.

To propagandize for the embargo of Japanese war materials, college students have formed a special Student Committee Against Participating in
Japanese Aggression.

Soph Council Men Elected

Ralph Williams and Ed Lucas Will Represent Second-Year Men

In the final vote for representatives to the Student Council from the rising sophomore class, Ralph Williams and Ed Lucas
were elected. Those nominated on the first ballot were: Baxter Freeze, Ed Lucas, Claude Hackney, Ralph Williams, Bob Garvey, Julian
McCall, Pat Rudolph, Charlie Watt, Bob Bryant, and John Barnhardt.

Barnhardt Dropped

The majority of the men nominated were eliminated in the first round of voting. The ballot was reduced to Williams,
Lucas, and Barnhardt. Up until yesterday, in the final vote, John Barnhardt had been leading the race. However, in the
final vote, Williams received 99 votes, Lucas 97, and Barnhardt 92.

Activities

Ralph Williams, Chattanooga, Tenn., is a member of the Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity. He was also nominated for vice
president of the rising sophomore class. Ralph is a member of the Freshman Track Team and was a member of
the Freshman Wrestling Team. Ed Lucas, Greensboro, N. C., is a member of the Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity. He
was nominated for president of the rising sophomores but was defeated by George Marsh. Ed is the star pitcher for
the Freshman Baseball Team and was a member of the Freshman Basketball Team.

Co. “C” Wins Competitive ROTC Honor

First Platoon of Company “A” Wins Platoon Drill; Coghill Winning Captain

Company “C,” under the command of Capt. C. W. Coghill, and the first platoon of Company “A,” under Lt. M.
H. Lillard, were the winners of the annual competitive drill held on Richardson Field on Friday, April 28.

Win Cups

Capt. Coghill and Lieut. Lillard will receive large silver cups appropriately engraved, which will become the permanent property of the
winners. The cup to Capt. Coghill is donated by the P. M. S. & T., and the cup which Lieut.
Lillard will receive is donated by Scabbard and Blade, national honorary military fraternity. In the annual competitive drill the order
of competition is as follows: Each company first drills as a unit of two platoons, executing the movement which the
inspecting officer commands. Each company is then represented by one platoon composed of three squads in the drill to determine
the best platoon. The battalion is then assembled before the reviewing stand, where one of the inspecting officers announces the
two winners and presents the ribbon to the winning company.

Judges

This year the judges were Col. W. A. McCulloch, Col. R. C. Williams, and Martin L. Lafferty. Lafferty, a second
lieutenant in the reserve army, graduated at Davidson last year. While here he was R. O. T. C. Battalion Commander,
president of the Student Body, and outstanding in football. Col. McCulloch is in charge of National Guard instruction in Charlotte.
Col. Williams, also of Charlotte, is in the U. S. Corps of Engineers.

Cornell University scientists have discovered the special enzyme that makes race horses run fast.

Honored By ODK

Above are the six men who were tapped into Omicron Delta Kappa, national honorary fraternity honoring leadership, at their annual
Spring Tap-Day, the ceremony being held in chapel Monday. Dr. Frontis Johnston of the college History department spoke briefly on
the history and aims of the organization. The men are, left to right, top row: Ray Pittman of Fayetteville, Perry
Sloan of Durham, Gene Liipfert of Winston-Salem; (bottom row) Locke White of Richmond, Ky., John Reisner of White Plains, N.
Y., and James Christian Pfohl, Director of Music at Davidson.

Alumnus Will Study Abroad

Florida Man Wins Fellowship for 1939-40

Davidson's list of alumni studying in Europe was increased again in April when R. R. Purdy, a graduate in the
class of 1937, received the American Field Service Fellowship for 1939-40.

To Study in France

Purdy, whose home is in Pensacola, Fla., has been studying since he left Davidson in the graduate school of Vanderbilt
University in Nashville, Tenn. Through this fellowship, which will be the only one given during the next year, he will
be able to study in France for a year under the sponsorship of the Institute of International Education.

Prepares Thesis

The recently-honored Davidson alumnus explained in a letter to Prof. H. T. Lilly that the subject on which he is
preparing a thesis is “Platonism in Middle English Literature.” While in Europe he plans to investigate a large amount of
old French literature which was accessible to writers of medieval England. Purdy was a member of Sigma Upsilon Literary fraternity
while a student at Davidson. He took honors work in English and was also a member of the band for
three years.

Barnard College next year will offer a special course on the history, economics, and arts that characterize a democracy.

Induction Is Held For Student Body Officers

Lafferty Will Marry Caddie

Engagement Announced Sunday By Bride’s Parents

Of interest to Davidson students was the announcement Sunday of the engagement of Miss Caddie Willis to Mr. Martin L.
Lafferty, both of Concord. The announcement was made by her parents, Mr. and Mrs. Edward King Willis. “Teeny” needs no
introduction to students, he graduated here last year with probably more honors than any student before him. Caddie and he
were familiar figures at all Davidson dance sets. No definite date has yet been set for the marriage, but it
will probably be in the near future. Lafferty’s last appearance on the campus was last Friday, when he was one
of the judges for the R. O. T. C. competitive drill. While here, he was commander of the Davidson battalion
and was recently promoted to a first lieutenant of the reserve army.

Wayne University has received a special grant to finance research into the causes and treatment of peptic ulcers.A University of
Texas instructor has devised a process of “photographing mathematically” the atom.

Eight Rising Juniors Installed at Student Body Meeting

Eight student body officers for 1939-40 formally took duties from 1938-39 predecessors at their installation ceremonies held Tuesday morning at
chapel. After preliminary announcements and a scripture lesson read by Sherrard Rice, the eight old officers, with a retiring speech,
handed over to their successors a symbol of their new positions. The first was Rut Miller, who handed over a
copy of “Scripts ’n Pranks” to the new magazine editor, Jack Abernathy. Following were Warren Gaw, the retiring freshman adviser,
who presented a freshman cap to Bob Ramsey; Sam Newell, who gave a gavel as a sign of authority in
the senior class to Dick Kenyon; Bob McClellan, who, as president of the Athletic Association, gave a constitution to Sam
Spencer. The service closed with the student body singing “O Davidson.”

The installations were held eight days later than the regular date called for in the constitution. This was due to
election delays. Jack Abernathy, a junior from Gastonia, will succeed Rut Miller of Johnson City, Tenn., as editor of “Scripts
’n Pranks,” the college humor magazine. Abernathy defeated Karl Hudson of Raleigh for the honor of editing the humor publication
next year. Other men on the original ballot were Erle Austin of Rocky Mount and Fred Harbin of Statesville. The
final ballot was cast Friday, with Abernathy winning by a slim margin.

In addition to his new position, Abernathy has garnered numerous honors in his three years here. He was recently appointed
assistant editor of The Davidsonian and is the president of the Philanthropic Literary Society. He is a prominent member of
the Journalism Club and has been active in the Beaver Club. He also holds the office of treasurer of Eta
Sigma Phi, a junior classical honorary fraternity. In addition, Abernathy is a baseball manager.

The remainder of the staff was announced last Monday night. The appointments were as follows: associate editors, Fred Harbin, Earle
Austin, Karl Hudson; editors, Paul Bumbarger, Ed Shewmake, Charles Martin, Edgar Watson, Joe Liles, John Hay; art editor, Gordon Horton.
Both Karl Hudson and Earle Austin have been managing editors on the magazine as well as The Davidsonian during the
past year. Similarly, Paul Bumbarger, Edgar Watson, and Joe Liles are among the managing editors for next year’s Davidsonian. These
men were all selected by the new editor, Jack Abernathy, in consultation with Rut Miller, the retiring editor. All were
chosen in recognition of their past service and qualifications for holding an editorship.

“Y” Cabinet Is Announced

Karl Hudson Is Appointed Editor of Next Year’s Y. M. C. A. Handbook

The new Y. M. C. A. cabinet, composed of 15 members, was officially announced today by Sid Crane, the recently-elected
president of the “Y.” Headed by Crane as presiding officer, the group will include Bob Watson, Finley, and Edgar as
next year’s vice presidents, as heads of deputation work and chapel services respectively.

Other Departments

Other members will be: Bob Ramsey, in charge of Freshman work; Dave Sprunt, in charge of spiritual development, which includes
hall prayer meetings and other phases of student life; and Sam Spencer, in charge of special departments. These two have
been created to replace the old department of spiritual life. Also listed are: Bill Boyle, vesper services; Karl Hudson, publications,
including the editorship of the Handbook; Dick Gammon, world evangelism; Boyd Flynn, social life; Eldridge Brown, Sunday schools; and Dave
McLean, colored work. The department of boys’ work will be handled by Casey Jones and Albert Winn, in charge of
the Hi-Y and Scout work respectively. Paul Crane will hold a new office, that of recorder to the cabinet. Among
his duties will be the keeping of a complete record of all students engaged in “Y” work.

Joint Meeting Tonight

The new cabinet will swing into action tonight.

Set Tickets Go On Sale

Scabbard and Blade Sponsors Military Ball

Set tickets for the Spring Dances, May 12, 13, featuring the annual Scabbard and Blade Military Ball, will go on
sale this week. The price of the set ticket is four dollars. Earl Mellen’s orchestra, composed of 12 musicians, is
very popular in southern schools, fulfilling football bookings at southern schools. Before his engagement in Charlotte, he had just fulfilled
a contract with the Edgewater Beach Hotel in Chicago and spent a long time playing at the Tantilla Gardens of
Richmond, Va.

There will be three dances in this year’s set, beginning with the regular Friday night formal from 10 until 2;
this dance is the Scabbard and Blade Military Ball. The tea dance from 4 to 6:30 precedes the informal dance
from 8:30 to 12.

Features Military Figure

For several years the spring dance has featured the Military Ball. This Ball is in honor of the national honorary
military fraternity, which has one of its chapters at Davidson.

C. A. Erwin

Mr. Clyde A. Erwin, State Superintendent of Public Instruction, spent a few hours on the Davidson campus Monday afternoon. An
informal reception was held for him soon after his arrival in the Quadwranglers’ room. Several members of the faculty were
present and the following public school officials: Mr. Edward L. Best of Charlotte, Miss Eloise Rankin of Charlotte, Mrs. J.
R. Withers of Davidson, Mr. J. R. Withers of Davidson, and Mrs. C. L. Ives of Davidson.

O. D. K. Taps Fourteen At Spring Ceremony; Dr. Johnston Speaks

Professor Pfohl and Dr. Jacobs Are Invited to Join Fraternity

WARREN GAW PRESIDES

Selection Based on Leadership in Activities

Davidson’s Delta circle of Omicron Delta Kappa tapped five seniors, seven juniors, one faculty member, and one alumnus into its
membership at its annual spring ceremonies Monday morning.

Five Seniors Bid

As President Warren Gaw tapped his gavel, the old members walked out into the student body and tapped Perry Sloan,
John Reisner, Ray Pittman, Locke White, and Gene Liipfert of the senior class; Sam Spencer, Toni Casali, Gales McClintock, Bob
Ramsey, Jack Holland, Dick Kenyon, and Sid Crane, juniors; and Prof. James Christian Pfohl. Dr. William P. Jacobs, president of
Presbyterian College and of Davidson's class of 1913, was also invited to join as a member.

Initiation Banquet

Prior to the actual induction ceremonies, President Gaw told the audience that the candidates for membership were selected on a
basis of leadership in athletics, scholarship, journalism, religious activities, and other extra-curricular participation on the campus. These men will be
initiated into the society at a banquet held next Monday night.

Dr. Johnston Talks

Outlining first the history and ideals of Omicron Delta Kappa, Dr. Frontis Johnston, speaker for the ceremonies, declared that the
society recognizes leadership. The history professor explained, however, that the true democracy assumes that all men are equal in order
that the best may be selected. Drawing an analysis, he pointed out that O. D. K. was not to be
considered an achievement in itself but a point of departure for more work, and he urged all who were not
tapped to continue as leaders, forgetting petty jealousies.

Students Get Contract For Camp Journal

Stuart Oglesby to Be Editor-in-Chief; Rea Tenney, Business Manager

Stuart Oglesby and Rea Tenney were granted the contract and printing privileges for publishing a humor magazine at the R.
O. T. C. Camp at Anniston, Ala., last week by Colonel Hill, the commandant there.

These two men submitted letters and plans for a magazine along with many others who will attend the camp, and
theirs was the one selected out of the competition on the basis of merit. Colonel Hill, of L. S. U.
and commandant at Fort McClelland, was the judge and after much deliberation, these two Davidson students were appointed to print
the magazine. This is the first time that a humor magazine has been published at the camp, and it will
round out the publications consisting of the newspaper and the annual. Oglesby will be editor-in-chief and Tenney will be business
manager of the magazine, which will be published twice during the session, one issue to be published after two weeks
and the other about two weeks before the camp adjourns.

Though no definite title has been selected for the magazine, it will probably be published under the name of “The
Kaydet.”

Temple University has organized a series of “refresher courses” to enable alumni to keep up with current trends in their
various fields of endeavor.
